

Fora personal fit, walk moons. 
,f, 
t -..-~ 

For apersonal fit,justwash. 
Consider your most comfortable pair ofshoes. You walked miles before they conformed exactly to your feet. But now they fit nobody but you. 
A fit that personal is a rare and wonderful thing. A relation­
ship that builds gradually. Over the months. Through the years. With one notable exception. Levi's® button-fly 501® Blues. They're made ofa legendary denim that shrinks 
down in the washing machine to fit only you. Your waist, your hips, you. 
For the Shrink-to-Fit"' 501jean, this personal fit takes just three quick turns through the wash. And for Pre-Shrunk 501 jeans, only one. 
It's like having your jeans custom tailored. For a fit 
no ordinary jeans can even begin to match. Levi's 501 Blues. The fit of a lifetime. 
In less than one day. 

501 
Levi's Button-Fly 501 Blues. 
Levrs 





~MOVIE 
M A (_; A z N E 

Publ1sher 
JOANNE SANFILIPPO 
Editor BYRON LAURSEN 
Creat1ve Dtrector CHIP JONES 
Art Q,rector DAN EICHOLTZ 
Productton Assistants ANN BOSCO JOCEY KHAYAT PAUL SNYDER 
C~rculahon Superv1sor ROXANNE PADILLA 
ASSistant to the Publisher SUSAN MARIE ARCIDIACONO 
ADVERTISING OFFICES 
NEW YORK 134 Le>~ngton Ave 3rd Fir NYC., NY 10016(212) 696-0994 
V1ce-Pres1dent Nat1onel Sales & Marketing LARRY SMUCKLER 
Account Execut1ves ANASTACIA COOLIN NICHOLAS IOVANNA 
LOS ANGELES 1680 V1ne, Suite 900 Hollywood, CA 90026(213) 462· 7175 
D1rector at National Sales HARRY SHERMAN 
Account Executtve 
BREAKFAST CLUB 
JENNIFER OWENS 
Director john Hu.ght'S takt!s a new look Ill growing ujJ. 
Sales Assistant NORMA COATES 
THE RIVER 
CHICAGO 
Family ties and more bind Mel Gibson and Sissy Spacek.
152 W Huron St 
Ch1cago. IL 60610 (312)751-1768 
M1d·West Sales Manager 
BRAZIL 
JACKLYN M PE"TCHENIK 
Thl' quirky gntius behind Monty Python and Time DETROIT Bandits turns dullness upside down. 
Publisher's Representative MAR fiN T TOOHEY (313) 643· 7797 
DUNE 
ATLANTA Sting as FPyd takes a stand in Franh Herbert:1 master­F'ubhsher·s Aepresentauves 
piPre Dune. 
HERB SCHMITI SUSAN McBRIDE (404) 441-0946 
CREATOR 
1984 Alan Weston Publ1shmg. a dlw&on ol Alan Weston CommunJca­
Pdf'r 0'1ooll' is a scimtist who doesn't just mourn his latf' 
llons, Inc corporate ofllces-1680 North Vme. Su1te 900 Hollywood. CA 90028 RIChard J. Kreuz, Pres1dent and Ch1el Execuhve wife; he tries to recTeate hf'r. Othcer. JeH 01ckey, President of Sales and Markeung, Randy 
Achee, President of Bus1ness Development. All nghts reserved Some matenel heretn used Wtth permiSSIOn of thetr copynght owner, MASS APPEAL UniVersal C1ty StudiOS, Inc. Letters become the property of the publisher and may be edtted Publisher assumes no responstbthty Zeljko lvanek gets hisfirst rnr~jor film role ajter building a lor unsohctted manuscnpts Published three 11mes durmg the year solid rf'{mtation on stage. Annual subscrtplton rate IS $3 00 To order subscripttons or notify change of address, wr1te THE MOVIE MAGAZINE. 1680 North V1ne, Swte 900, Hollywood. CA 90028 
OUR COVER 
Sting in the role 1!/'Feyd 

A Growing Up Intensive 
BY RICHARD LEVINSON 
THINK THE MOST CRUCIAL POINT IN YOUR LIFE IS WHEN YOU'RE EIGHTEEN:· 
John Hughes is sitting in his studio office bungalow, discussing The Break­
fast Club, a film about five high school 
students which he is directing from 
his own original script. They're dif­
ferent types who know little or noth­
ing about each other, but who have 
to spend an entire day in detention 
together. During the day, they are 
forced to confront their differences, 
and discover their essential similarity. 
"Part of the idea for the film came 
when Rebel Without a Cause was re­
leased on cassette. I had seen it in 
high school from James Dean's point 
of view. When I watched it again, this 
time with kids of my own, I saw it 
from Jim Backus's point of view. 
Breakfast Club works this way, too. 
To Hughes, the formation of the 
characters was all-important to the 
film, which takes place almost entirely 
on one set, a high school library 
where the students are to serve their 
detention. "For a director, this picture 
was the ultimate experience, because it was just me and seven actors. We shot in complete continuity [all scenes in their actual order], which you very rarely get to do, and every actor would have killed for the part. So, I had peo­ple who were very enthusiastic." 

With Emilio Estevez (The Outsiders, Tex, Repo Man), Paul Gleason (Trading Places), Anthony Michael Hall (Six Pack, Vacation, Sixteen Candles), John Kapelos (Thief, Sixteen Candles), Judd Nelson (Making the Grade), Molly Ringwald (The Tempest, Sixteen Candles), and Ally Sheedy (War Games, Bad Boys), Hughes feels he has an ex­tremely talented cast. 
"We had a rehearsal period where we tore the script apart, analyzed it, questioned it, examined it. We made up background stories for each of the characters. The kids really became the roles they were playing. I didn't want people who would say 'here I am, what do I say, where do I stand?' I think that if you've really got your charac­ters, anything they say is . . . right." 
There were intense emotions on the set. "There is one scene," Hughes describes, "where virtually nothing 
moves for 30 minutes. But the per­formances were so good: To do the scene for three days, literally crying 
PH01D BY ANNIE LIEBOVITZ 
John Hughes has surrounded himself with a top-flight cast. Breakfast Club stars include Anthony Michael Hall (left) and Molly Ringwald (right). 

all day, was draining. But I think that's what makes the picture really hap­pen. If it's successful commercially, it will be because the ending is so satis­fying. You look at who they were when they walked into that room and who they are when they walk out, and it's remarkable. 
"The point is, they all don't like each other, they don't like the groups the others represent. They don't get along, and they find out that they're all smart, all stupid, all insecure, they all have problems with their families:• 
"In the picture, one of the kids is going to go absolutely nowhere, and the kid who seems to be in the most control is really the most pathetic, be­cause it's all over for him. He'll go no further than where he is right now. I hope this is a big picture so I can do a sequel. This script could have been ten thousand pages long. It could go on forever." 
Is The Breakfast Club, which is due to be released in February, a comedy? Hughes says, "I think it would be wrong to call it a comedy. It's a com­edy in the same sense that, say, Dog Day Afternoon was a comedy. The pic­ture was not shot, nor planned by the actors, to be a 'kid' picture. It's a very adult approach to the subject of kids." 
A Funny Guy With a Serious Side 

John Hughes arrived on the film scene several years ago, first writing National Lampoon's Class Reunion, a movie that he discounts as being not exactly what he had in mind. Since then, he has written National Lam­poon's Vacation, Mr. Mom, and Sixteen Candles, which he also directed. 
Hughes began by writing one­liners, which were bought by such comedians as Joan Rivers, Rodney Dangerfield, and Phyllis Diller, and used those jokes to get a job in adver­tising. He became quite successful at the Leo Burnett agency in Chicago, and began to sell freelance pieces to Playboy, National Lampoon, and other publications. 
Hughes is currently preparing to shoot his next film, Weird Science, which he calls a "special effects ro­mantic comedy." 
THE MOVIE MAGAZINE 


SISSY SPACEK AND MEL GIBSON IN A CONTEMPORARY DRAMA 

BY IAN FRASER 
T 
he foothills of the Great Smoky Mountains stretch high against the sky in the East Tennes­see farming community near Kingsport. Although it is well into November, the sun beats down as if it were June, illuminating the reds and browns of the mountain tree line and setting off the dried shocks of corn in the valley below like strands of tousled angel hair. 
For the past 11 weeks, the Holston River valley has been the set of The River, the Mel Gibson -Sissy Spacek film scheduled for release at Thanks­giving. Just before lunch on this balmy fall day, Gibson and Spacek climb aboard a Godzilla-sized John Deere tractor for the harvesting scene, their movie children riding in the wagon behind them. The tractor chugs up, the cameras roll, and some time later, director Mark Rydell (On Golden Pond, The Rose) calls, "That's a cut, please. Thank you. Save it." Spacek, dressed in jeans, a denim jacket and black rubber boots, climbs down off the tractor and makes her way up the incline to her motor home, where her 15-month-old daughter, Schuyler, plays with Rio and Dakota, the children of co-star Scott Glenn. 
'You know, The River is the first movie I've made that I haven't been just completely exhausted when it was over, and there's every reason that I should be," says the Oscar-winning (Coal Miner's Daughter) actress, whose work in the picture ended that week. "I've been up a lot at night with Schuyler and there was so much phys­ical stuff in this film -we did a lot of work with a wild bull and a lot of stuff with water, with the levee break­ing, and then a bulldozer flips over­but I feel just great! This movie has been a real happy experience. I think the nature of the role was something that I just had in me and I guess I was really ready to work again." 
As Mae Garvey, Spacek plays a tough and determined American farm woman, who, with her husband, Tom (Mel Gibson), struggles against nature and big business to keep her land, her home and her family intact. It is her first screen appearance since Missing, the brilliant and controversial Costa-Gavras film of 1982, Spacek having taken a temporary work hiatus with the birth of her daughter in July of that year. The buzz around the set has it that the actress turns in a rivet­ing, exceptional performance, draw­ing upon her own new experiences and emotions as a mother. 
''I'm sure that Sissy would never have felt instinctively comfortable playing a part like this until she had a child and was into that full experience herself," says Scott Glenn, who plays the Garveys' nemesis as a representa­tive of an agriculture business that 
The River addresses the crisis on the farm with honor and sensitivity. 
wants to dam the valley and flood out the small farmers; and he has known Spacek and her husband, di­rector Jack Fisk (Raggedy Man), since the early '70s. "The values that Sissy seems to be exploring in her life are the same ones Mae Garvey was in­volved with, so I'm sure those [moth­ering] experiences made her a better artist." 
Aside from the fact that they are both young mothers with children to raise, Sissy Spacek shares another connection with Mae Garvey. For the last three years, Spacek, too, has lived on a farm, a 210-acre spread in the rolling hill country of Virginia. There, she and her husband raise quarter horses and thoroughbreds, and if that lifestyle sounds far and away beyond the plight of the small, independent farmer, the 35-year­old Texas-born actress maintains that she has not exactly had her head in the sand. 

"One of the reasons I wanted to do this movie is because I'm aware of the special problems that farmers without other incomes have," she says. "Be­cause I make money in the movies, I can put it into the farm, but that is not the situation with most. The fam­ily farmer is having a hard time mak­ing a go of it now, what with the droughts and the flooding and the amount of capital it takes to run a farm compared with the profit mar­gin." 
So well did this gut-level connection work, says Mark Rydell, who directed from a screenplay by Robert Dillon and Julian Barry, story by Dillon, that "I am really very moved by the film as a whole. Unlike anything I can re­member, it addresses itself with real honor to the crisis of farm families and the dissolution of the family unit, the thing that made this country for­midable. In the wake of 'progress,' the mechanization of lifestyle has taken us far from the earth and the respect for living things and away from the goals people can aspire to and achieve. This picture tries to reaffirm those values. And Sissy is critically instrumental in formulating this family unit. I tell you, your jaw will drop when you see what a family she and Mel and those two kids are. It's a magical combina­tion, an absolute joy to behold." 
"To me," she says, "the film is about people who have strong moral fiber. And I wanted to play a character like Mae Garvey because I knew I would have to find her in me someplace, that I would have to dig out the Mae Gar­vey in me. I would love for Mae to take care of Schuyler, to be around her, you know, because she embodies a lot of important qualities in being able to take care of her family, her house and her farm. I mean, she does what she has to do. I think it's been good for my character to have as much of Mae Garvey in me as possi­ble. Mae Garvey," she says, and then her voice trails off for a moment ... "I admire her." 
THE MOVIE MAGAZINE 

A Farm Is Born 
F 
or the construction of the film site, 440 acres of Tennessee scrubland were turned into a farm ­complete with a real two-story farmhouse, barn and 
livestock, acres of field corn, equipment sheds, chicken 
coops and even weeds. While workers for the film com­
pany erected a dam across the Holston River to regulate 
the water and stage the flooding effects, Sissy Spacek 
and Mel Gibson took an active part in the local farm 
community and learned the day-to-day routine of working 
farm life, including the operation of machinery and the 
handling of animals. In her spare time on the set, Spacek 
baked pies and cakes in the farmhouse oven "until they 
were coming out of people's ears," offers co-star Gibson, 
"and they were good, too!" 
PHOTOS BY GRim GORMAN 


AJOLLY SATIRE 

ZIL 
BY BART MILLS 


T
erry Gilliam has worked hard to 
stay childish. "My taste runs to 
grotesque scatology," he says, "and I like things to be a bit crude. My 
mind works the way a kid's mind 
works, and that's not a pretty sight. 
Everything I do is done to please my­
self. That may sound egocentric, but 
it's all I know how to do." 
Gilliam's childlike mind has been at 
work most recently on a movie called 
Brazil, a motion picture that has abso­
lutely nothing to do with the country 
of Brazil. Instead, we're told, the title 
refers to the exotic dreams of people 
who lead dull lives. 
Gilliam is certainly not a dull man, 
but he too has exotic dreams, and 
over the years we have seen quite a lot 
of them on screen. We first saw them 
played out through his decidedly 
offbeat bits of animation for the Monty 
Python TV series and feature films. 
The token American of the troupe, 
Gilliam also performed, wrote and 
occasionally directed. 
But lately Gilliam's nightmares have 
been translated into a series of non­
Python, live-action fantasies that are 
unrivaled in their use of pure imagi­
nation. The first was ] abberwocky, a 


No more Mr. Nice Guy: So as not to get pushed around, jonathan Pryce makes a radical adaptation to the futuristic world of Brazil.jim Broadbent (below) shows Katherine Belmond what a little plastic surgery can do. 
medieval satire of sorts that Gilliam 
wrote and directed. 
Next came Time Bandits. A comic tale 
about a young boy and six little men 
who travel through time as petty 
thieves, only to wind up in the middle 
of the final battle between good and 
evil, Time Bandits became a smashing 
success. 
The overwhelming success of Time 
Bandits earned Gilliam the financing 
for Brazil, a story he had carried 
around in the back of his imagination 
for some time. Two years ago Gilliam 
described his script for Brazil as, "Wal­
ter Mitty meets Franz Kafka to the 
rhythm of Latin sambas." Before pro­
duction began, Tom Stoppard and 
Charles McKeown helped rewrite the 
script and Gilliam's description be­
came, "Walter Mitty meets George 
Orwell." 
The star ofBrazil is Jonathan Pryce, 
a British actor known to Ameri­
can movie audiences as the satanic 

·'Mr. Dark" in Something Wicked This Way Comes. 
The story starts somewhere in the gloomy future where Pryce's charac­

ter is a meek and lowly clerk in the 
all-powerful Ministry of Information 
Retrieval, the building where all the 
information on everybody is stored. 
Pryce says the story starts with Mitty­
esque dreams, "but by the end, the 
nightmare of Orwellian reality takes 
over. The character's dreams become 
what he has to do." And what he has 
to do is help a band of terrorists at­
tack the Ministry. The terrorist leader 
is played by Robert De Niro. 

"Brazil will be like Gilliam's Monty 
Python cartoons," continues Pryce, "which in turn are exactly like him ­
the tangible shapes of his dreams. Gil­
liam's thoughts are there to be seen, 
and he never pretends he's presenting 
anything except himself. He does 
what amuses him." 

Although Pryce has worked in 
many highly praised productions, he 
ventures to say of Brazil, which opens 
in early 1985, "It's a dangerous thing 
to suggest, but this is certainly the best 
thing I've ever been involved with. It's 
not like any film I've ever seen. Brazil 
treads a dangerous line between jollity 
and horror." 

THE MOVIE MAGAZINE PHOTOS BY DAVID APPLEBY 



I I rapped in a white
l 
terry cloth robe 
aJl(l sport.ing gray 

sweat socks, Sting hardly looks the superstar this afternoon. The 33-year-old Police lead vocalist, horn Gordon 
Matthew Sumner, emergent film star and all-around teen icon can he seen gazing absently at the re­
markable mess or his Atlanta ho­

tel room. As his band's extensive and immensely lucrative 1983 tour draws to a close, as he surfers from a worst-possible-time case or mono­
nucleosis, Sting rn ust climb on stage in a rcw hours to rock a packed house at Atlanta's Omni through yet an­other rendition of the Police's great­est hits. At just this instant, rock's 
reigning Adonis is, understandably, a space case. 
A reporter's question interrupts our hero's reverie, thottgh, and Sting pulls suddenly into sharp focus. "There's a tempt at ion early on when one is interviewed to be confessional," he says in a level voice. "I try now not to be confessional. I'm st.ill quite candid in interviews. I can be quite shocking in 1he things l say." 

The cheerfully admitted bottle­blond and ex-school teacher has al­ways been the sex-appeal factor for the Police. Now, after a series of well­r:eccived roles in such films as Qnad­rojJhrnia and lirimstone & 7'rnu1e, he is playing a rm~jor part in the very costly llollywood production of a science lic­t ion cult l~tvorite novel entitled Dune. 
Sting spent a large part of last summer in Mexico filming his role as Feyd-Rautha Harkonncn, the anti­hero whose climactic knife-fight with good-guy Paul Atreides (Kyle Mac­Lachlan) provides a highpoint in the long-awaited film version or Frank Herbert's classic science fiction novel, 

IJIWI'. 
A futuristic story of prophecy, planetary survival, political intrigue 
Feyd (Sting) and hero Paul Atreides (Kyle Mac­Lachlan) debate a fine point­which Dune Star deserves to survive until the final reel. 

and inter-galactic family feuds, Dune to draw distinctions between himself was published in 1965 and not only and his role. "There arc fundamental achieved success on its own terms, but differences between me and Feyd," also established a worldwide cult and Sting asserts. "I mean, he had a very, a ready market for four sequel novels very bad upbringing, largely as a re­(including Heretics 1!/ Dune, which ap­sult or his environment. He lived on peared last March). The film version, this industrial planet and his unde rumored to be one of the most expen­was a gay lecher, morally a complete sive productions in cinematic history, gangster: He had no chance, really. will be released worldwide in De­"I·Ie's crazier than I am. lie's pretty cember of this year. extreme -a gay villain. I'd say I'm a 
Despite similarities between Dune's themes -the nightmare of 
--~ Sting on Lynch

mass human and eco­logical destruction, the 
ihe main reason I agreed to do Dune," says

relationship between 
! Sting, "was because I was interested in technology and civiliza­

:the director. David Lynch is a man who's
L

tion -and concerns made two evident in the Police's Eraserhead), music, Sting was attract­
ed to joining the cast which is totally out in left field. I thought if anyone cou
of Dune by something 
bring Dune up

else. "I'd never read 
to standard,

J)unl' before I was asked 
it was David 

to read it for this pn~j­
Lynch. It was a 

ect," Sting relates, ''I'm 
big risk to employ 

not really a science fic­
the man for a tion fan, but certainly start! But that's Ilerbert'sa veryinterest­what interested me. ing writer. He creat­That project ed this total ecology, David Lynch seemed 
to be something spe­\~. \

geography and history 
cial." Lynch with

for this planet. It's tre­
And did working with actress Francesca Annis. 

mendous." 
Lynch meet Sting's ex­

Sting perceives Feyd 
pectations? "Oh yes, yes, absolutely," the singer

in humorous sociologi­
answers instantly. "He's a very urbane and charm­

cal terms and is careful 
ing ... in many ways a quite formal man, and yet that's just the surface. Underneath he's a seething mass of angst." 
11 

villain, but I'm not gay, and in that sense I'm not Feyd. He was fun to play, basically. I didn't have a lot of re­sponsibility in the movie-it was such a huge project. It was enormous. I had fun with David and the other actors, but it certainly wasn't playing Hamlet." 
Sting says he generally tries to pur­sue roles that seem connected in some way with the person he perceives him­self to be. "I'm not a character actor in the sense that I adopt other peo­ple's personalities or personas," he re­marks. "I'm not really interested in doing that. I'm more interested in ex­tending my own persona into a dra­matic situation." 
This attitude applies to his role as a rock performer, as well as to his movie parts. "I don't pretend to be someone else when I'm on stage," Sting explains. "I merely magnify cer­tain elements of my own personality -I act the part. And the same is true in acting. I don't become someone else. I'm me. I don't get given parts because I can be other people. I get 
Dune: An Epic Space Tale 
-rank Herbert's Dune mes­
merized science fiction
l-readers immediately upon its appearance as a hard­bound book, and its impact has consistently grown since that time. In its initial year, the novel won both the Nebula and Hugo awards for best science fiction novel. Critical acclaim as one of the greatest science fiction novels of all time has only echoed the book's enormous popular success. Ten mil­lion copies of Dune and its four sequels have been sold to date, a figure that translates into an esti­mated 40 million readers. Such ambitious, detailed literary works do not easily become great movies. Many efforts to derive a suitable screenplay from Dune were started and abandoned over the years. David Lynch, however, finally got the job done, and the novel's boosters should be pleased with the results. 
Making the Unreal Real 
l 
ll umungous worms, lots of bald women, and a hippopotamus-sized being that looks like a cross between a human brain, an octopus and a really bad dream: the film Dune will present a totally new 
world populated by an assortment of ... creatures that previously lived full blown only in author Frank Herbert's imagination. 
The job of realizing these nasty astral visions fell to costume designer Bob Ringwood in particular. "There were four planets to work with ­industrial, military, earthy and dignified," says Ringwood. "So there could be no single unified theme in the costumes." At one point 45 people were working to create a total of 4,000 costumes. Special challenges were everywhere. 
Take the octopus/brain/bad dream creature. Please. Says mechanical special effects co-ordinator Kit West: 
"The Baron -that's his name-flies, or at least floats, about eighteen inches off the ground through almost the entire picture. We had to use a body harness suspended by wires and guided by an overhead tracking system controlled by six people." As for the giant worms, Chief Worm Designer Carlo Rambaldi -famous for his work on E. T. and King Kong-tracked what he called "uncharted terri­tory" in his design of the film's worms. "I worked on them for a full year. Move­ment like the worms required had never been tried before. In the usual animal body, the spe­Having a heat cific points formed by bones and wave: Paul Atreides, joints dictate what motion is pos­played by Kyle MacLachlan, sible. But since the worms have 
fends offrobotic aggression in the Caladan training room.
no bones or joints, you have al­most endless fluidity. Realistic move­ment was our problem. We had five sculptors, five mold makers and five mechanics working to produce sixteen worms and one worm head. We had a minimum of six people operating each worm." 
Rambaldi's "Spacing Guild Navigator" was likewise a problem. "We had fifteen people working on the Navigator for three months. The final model has forty separate joints of movement." Guided entirely by human hands, the Navigator required twenty-two operators. 
In order to create the totally new world of Dune, Model Maker Supervisor Emilio Ruiz del Rio used techniques retrieved from early film days to create 
"foreground miniatures." He combined those models with actors and addi­tional structural segments to force perspective, and achieve the look of several elements joined in one gigantic scene. Del Rio, with thirty years of experience and some three hundred films behind him, sums up the feeling of many of the special effects geniuses working on this project when he says, "Dune is one of the most elaborate and spectacular assignments I've ever had." 
THE MOVIE MAGAZINE 



given parts because the director can sense a certain vibe, a 
certain something ... something intangible." Before IJunP, Sting had cinematic roles in Radio On, Quadrojihl'nia, and Artemis '81, but his h1vorite part was the satanic Martian in the claustrophobically Pinteresque domestic drama, Brimstonl' & Treacle, for which he also wrote the score. "I love that script-Dennis Potter, who wrote it, is a major playwright," Sting states. "I loved mak­ing that movie. For what it is, it's great. I think people mis­interpreted my starring in it: 'Sting's a big pop star, he must have made a big movie. Let's go and see Brimstone & 11-eaciP, it must be a cop series,' or something. And they go and see it, and they say, 'God, what a horrible movie.' 
"I'm glad I made it, I'm proud of it. The character was intrinsic to me. What I had to work on very hard was the acting, and staying in the same league as veterans like Den­holm Elliott, who've been making movies since my father 
started going to movies. So I really had to work hard to stay on the screen, and I think I did a fairly good job. It was a great learning experience for me." 
Obviously a man at no loss for opinions and ideas, Sting seems surprised when I suggest that his wide range of activities must demand a great deal of emotional control. "Am I the sort of person who wants to be in control?" he asks, rephrasing my question in a rhetorical volley. "No, I'm not. You have to separate me from the stage character. You know, the stage character has a certain function. He /u~1 to be in control. If he's not in con­
trol there's no gig. There's anarchy, there's nothing. So in a sense I have a duty to control. Off-stage, I don't really feel I have to. I spend most of the time in bed, or losing at tennis, or just being normal. I don't mind taking the odd risk now and then to wake me up." 
Kyle MacLachlan, in the hero's role ofPaul Atreides,finds 
that he must rely on his sound gun to survive in the desert. 

l'IIOTO IIY lliRCK IIAI.SH:Ail 
TilE MOVIE 
Lookingfor new life through a test tube are (from lift) Vincent Spano, Marie! Hemingway, Peter O'Toole. 
Love in the Lab 
BY MIKE BYGRAVE 
\.\ 
I n Creator, which opens next February, Peter O''Tbole stars as Harry Wolper, a scientist whose beloved wife dies in pregnancy. He manages to preserve a few of her cells, and then embarks on a lifelong, bizarre experiment to recreate 
her. 
Wait a minute, you say, isn't this Bride of Frankenstein re­made? No, says director Ivan Passer, "it's like no other film ever made before." 
Baron Frankenstein, for one thing, never had to worry about academic politics and the intricacies of applying for grants. As a matter of fact, Frankenstein didn't have to worry about much of anything having to do with real life. Harry Wolper, on the other hand, does. 
Wolper has one thing in common with the Baron, however. Harry is a genius with an obsession that some might say is just a step away from madness. He has dreamed for 30 years of somehow bringing his cherished Lucy back to life. 
He enlists the aid of a young student, played by Vincent Spano, the young actor who played the would-be epitome of cool in Baby, It's You. Together they battle the nefarious in­trigues of Harry's competitors for funds at the university and seek a fertile egg with the proper DNA to "regrow" Lucy. That egg is found in the lissome body of a promiscuous young wanderer named Meli, played by Marie! Hemingway, who comes to the role fresh from her critical triumph in the controversial Star 80. As Harry's project begins to succeed, Meli finds herself falling in love with the obsessed doctor. 
The screenwriter of Creator is Jeremy Leven, a novelist who based the script on his own novel and upon fantasies rooted in his own life. Leven, who is a researcher in child behavior and brain chemistry now on sabbatical from Yale, lost his first wife some years ago much in the way Harry Wolper did ­and Leven too dreamed of somehow bringing her back to life. 
Passer, the director of Cutter:1 Way who with countryman Milos Forman emigrated from Czechoslovakia in 1969, admits that he has trouble pigeonholing the story into a genre. 
"The movie is about the romance of life on different levels," he says, "life from the scientific point of view, life on the level of the characters, and life in the way Harry Wolper talks about 'the big picture.' Some projects have a little heart beating in there and they demand to be made," he adds. "I knew Crrator was like that." 
MAGAZINE 
Zeljko I vanek in a Hot Potato With a Twist of Lemmon 
BY DAVIN SEAY 
Z v 
eljko Ivanek is probably the 
most unlikely name to hit an 
American marquee since Tovah Feldshuh. Actors are no longer forced to Anglicize their names, but I vanek's (pronounced ZHEL-ko ee-VON-neck) is nonetheless a tongue-twister. The 27-year-old Ivanek has a standard, admirable response: "I was born in Yugoslavia, and if I had changed my name it would have been a betrayal of my family." 
We first saw lvanek on the movie 
screen as The Smder, able to project his 
nightmares into another person's 
reality. 
The Sender was an above-average 
1982 horror movie that didn't get 
much critical attention. 
For his second film 
appearance, in the com­
edy-drama Mass AjJjJeal, 
I vanek is a troublemaker 
of a very different ilk: a 
seminary student who un­
settles the comfortable life 
of a parish priest, played 
by Jack Lemmon. A lim­
ited Christmas release, 
Mass Appeal was directed 
by Glenn Jordan from 
a screenplay by Bill C. 
Davis, based on his hit 
stage play. 
It is appropriate that Ivanek's first 
big film break should have the stage 
as its source, for that's where Ivanek 
has thus far found his greatest suc­
cess. After graduating from Yale (his 
family had long since immigrated to 
the United States) and studying at the 
London Academy of Music and Dra­
matic Art, Ivanek made his Broadway 
debut in 1981 in The Survivor. 
In the bizarre satire Cloud Nine, he 
played a flirtatious British wife in the first act of the off-Broadway hit, and a male street hustler in the second. He created the role of the older brother to Matthew Broderick in Neil Simon's 
Brighton Beach Memoirs. In Mass Appeal Ivanek plays the re­bellious young seminarian Mark Dol­son, who wants to be a priest so he can use his pulpit to attack the serious social and moral issues of our time. Irri­
'Zeljko Ivanek (above) is a seminarian 
who wants to shake up the establish­
ment. Fatherly advice: Oscar­
winning actorJack Lemmon counsels 
the smooth path (left). 

tated seminary authorities assign him 
to Father Tim Farley for guidance. 

Father Farley (Lemmon) has cre­
ated a comfortable niche in his parish 
by avoiding controversy and deliver­
ing "Norman Rockwell sermons." 
Dolson contemptuously labels him a "Father Bojangles" who practices a "song-and-dance theology." 
The focus of Mass AjJpeal, and the 
presence of such stars as Lemmon 
and Charles Durning, are likely to 
earn Mass Appeal serious attention 
from critics and film buffs. For 
I vanek, this may be the ideal vehicle 
to establish a reputation as a screen 
star equal to the credentials he has 
earned on stage. 
THE MOVIE MAGAZINE 

To every roommate 



about to become a friend. 
. 'i \ 


Right now, about the only thing you have in 
common is the same room. But you and those 
strangers who moved in with you are going to 
crack a lot of books and burn a lot of mid­night oil together. 
You're going to discover the people behind the nametags, the ones inside the roommates. And who 
knows? Before the term is over, your roommates may very well turn out to be good friends. To each of you we say, let it be Lowenbrau. 
Lowenbrau.Here's to good friends. 


Grace cable TV -page 5 
VOL XIX, NO. 47 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER I, I 984 
john Hiler, Indiana's incumbent Third District Congressman, showsa group ofstudents that hehashold ofthe issues yesterday in the LaFortune Little Theater. In his speech, part ofElection Aware· ness Week, Hiler emphasized the current economic growth which he said is taking place nationwide as well as in the Third District. Paul Chamberlin's story is at left. 

Zahm freshman Joe Weber takes his tum at Day" for the Drive, which continues today. Sign­J<it1ing bloodyesterday at this week's BloodDrive at ups have been posted in tJarious halls. the Student Health Center. Wednesday was "Zahm 
Ample career possibilities available to A&L grads who make the effort 
By MARY HEILMANN "In certain respects, on-campus types of oppurtunities available to StuffReporll>r interviewing would seem to reflect a them and to equip them to pursue all paucity of jobs to the Arts and Let­available job-seeking means." 
<:ontrary to popular belief, there ters graduate," she said. "However, One of the counseling services 
an: many jobs available to hiW1ly there are whole types of organiza­available throuW1 the College ofArts 
motivated Arb and Letters tions who do not recruit on college and Letters, according to Arnold, is 
graduates, according to Kitty Ar­campuses. 'Ibese include publishing the Arts and Letters Business Soci­
nold, director of Career and Place­companies, as well as small busi­ety. Composed of students in the 
ment Services. nesses, who, due to low budgets, do college and supervised by Dean 
Although it may appear that Arts not have this capacity." Robert Waddick, the group's aim is 
and Ll"ttcrs majors face difficulty in Emphasizing that the Career and see CAREERS, page 5 
finding a job due to the small num­Placement Center performs func­bn of on-campus interviews tions other than arranging inter­available to them. Arnold contends views, Arnold says a major that many oppurtunities for employ­commitment of the center is "to mt·nt exist. ensure that students realize the 
Third Dist. incumbent Hiler predicts growth 
By PAUL CHAMBERLIN lation should promote the individ­
News Stuff ual's opportunity for growth. "We 
need to accent our policies ... 
Current and future economic towards making the economic pie growth and reform is evident expand, and hopefully everyone will nationwide as well as in the '!bird get a bigger share of that economic Distrkt, int:umbent 'Jbird District pic as it expands by having a low in­Congressman John Hiler told a small flation so people keep more of their crowd of students yesterday in the income." Lafortune Little lbeater. Hiler also In a discussion afterward, Hiler spokt· of the current Republican answered questions pertaining to platform in his speech, part of Elec­his campaign and party. He des­tion Awareness Week. cribed the diverse ideas within the 
According to Hiler, the Republi­party, including his own ide~ on can party is ('urrently the most monetary reform. His reforms in­innovative and hopeful party in both volve going back to the gold stan· outlook and policy. He believes the dard as it was before the early movt·ment of so many young voters 1970's. Each American dollar would to the Republkan party is the "most again be earmarked to a specific significant thing to take place in mass of gold. Also explained were politics in the last .W years" because his ideas on the imme diate public it will have an effect upon our disdosurc of the decisions made by thoughts ;o years from now when the Fedcral Open Market Commit­tht· nt•xt gt·neration begins to tee, and the reappointment of the bt·come politically active. Secretary of the Treasury to that 
'lbe congressman stressed the committee as an observing non­prt·valenn: of political realignment voting member. in this year's election, especially in­John Hiler is running for his third volving economics. 'lbe current Re­term as U.S. Congressman for puhlkan platform emphasizes the Indiana's '!bird District. His cam­Individual in terms ofeconomics, he paign has reflected an attitude of said. "pro-growth." He is also a native 
filler said that governmental legis-Hoosier. 

Tyson: No Little Sibs weekend due to rector 
oppo~tiontotheevent 
Joanne Madden, co-chairperson
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
of the Little Sibs Weekend commit­
News Editor 

tee, said, "It's ont· of thost· things · 
'Jbe Campus Life Council Little it's not sellable. Inherently, if the Sibs Weekend proposal has been rectors don't want it, the weekend vetoed by Father David Tyson, vice can't work. It's actually better if It president for student affairs. Tyson didn't pass if that wa:; the attitude of said he rejected the proposal be­the rectors." cause of the "strongest negative M;ulden said Tyson's dc:cision wa:; evaluations ... from the members of not a surprise to her. "I fully ex­our hall staffs." pected Father to reject it from what 
Rob Bertino, student body presi­he said at the first CLC meeting." dent, commented, ''I'm not At that meeting, on Sept. 26, surprised that it was turned down ... Tyson said, "I will not be put in a po­What I think Father Tyson wao; doing sition where I'll be forcing hall staff was simply a reflection of the to do something, because it just opinion among the rectors." won't work." 
Bertino added. "I'm more disap­Steve Taeyaerts, the other com­pointed with the rectors because mittee co-chairperson, said the com­they weren't as open-minded as they mittee expected this decision. "Our could have been." Bertino said that time for being upset was a couple of 
only ten out of 24 rectors attended a weeks after we got into the whole meeting at which they had the op­thing. We had no idea what kind of portunity to hear the presentation opposition we'd run into," he said. by the coordinators of the Little Sibs He added, "We tried to tell the Weekend. "That has to make you rectors that we were doing this in wonder," he said. response to students questioning us 
Father Mario Pedi, rector ofSt. Ed­as to when this was going to be done. ward's Hall, said he was against the lbis was a student activity that stu­Little Sibs Weekend. "I don't see the dents wanted. We were told that we 
purpose for it," he said. "The were misdirecting our energies. We weekend is an occasion for high took the responsibilities on our­school students to come to campus selves only to have it rejected -and and party." it's really frustrating." 
Pedi added that most rectors But Taeyaerts contended, "I think agreed with him on this issue. "I'm it would have worked. We've made on the CLC and before I gave my light-year gains over the organiza­vote I canvassed the rectors among tion of two years ago. '!bey just the North Quad and I think about 80 couldn't see the concept of tht· percent of those I talked to were weekend working. against it." "'Ibere's always going to be a few 
exceptions, but we had activities planned for every minute and there really wouldn't have been time to do that. Father Pedi had a lot of prob­lems in his individual dormitory, which biased his opinion. A lot of rectors didn't understand this." 
Plans for individual dormitory sponsored sibling weekends are already underway, according to Madden. "Now that the issue has been brought out into the open, it's time for the individual hall represen· tatives to discuss these weekends. We would be prepared to help them out logistically." 
In a letter to Bertino, Tyson ex· plained, "As you know there were many negative commentaries on the first Little Sibs Weekend two years ago .... The proposal to have the 
-Weekend this year attempts to rem­edy the problems of the past. None­theless, the continued additional responsibility that would be placed on the rectors and their staffs is very large. While the organization of events Is superior to those of the previous Little Sibs Weekend, it is impossible to guarantee other possi­ble options. 
"Even with all of the plans and precautions, the probability of adc· quate control, given the large influx of high school visitors, is relatively low. Finally, many question the merit of tht• Weekend's purpose in 
Ob&mc:r/OhrlsMcl.nn 
light ofthe massive preparations and additional responsibilities that would be necessary. 
"I have consulted with all of the 
see SIBS, page 3 

--------------~--------~--------------------------------------------------. 
The Observer 
In Brief 

Baby Fae became the longest-surviving human recipient of an animal heart Tuesday, drinking from a baby bottle and taking naps in her oxygen tent as a baboon's heart beat in her chest for a fifth day. "She being fed every three hours by bottle," said Joyce McClintock, spokeswoman for Lorna Linda University Medical Center. "She weighs 5.7 pounds.... She's breathing on her own, but she's under an oxygen tent all the time. "They monitor her constantly for blood pressure, pulse, temperature, urine output and respiration. Every­thing's normal," Ms. McClintock said. "She awakens and sleeps inter­mittently, as do most babies." Surgeon Dr. David Hinshaw earlier had said Baby Fae was "nibbling and nursing on the mother, breast­feeding," but hospital spokesman Dick Schaefer said that was incor­rect because Hinshaw "misunderstood what was told to him." -AP 
Two blackjack dealers and twO players used a simple but hard-to-detect method ofmarking cards to bilk two Atlan­tic City casinos out of $580,000 in the largest cheating scam since casino gambling was legalized here in 1978, the state attorney gen­eral says. The dealers pressed their thumbs into certain cards to give players clues about their value, Attorney General Irwin Kimmelman said Monday as an Oct. 5 grand jury indictment was unsealed. The six-count indictment charges Thomas Chan, 47, of Oakland, Calif., Harry Kin Liu, 32, of San Francisco, and Wilfredo Saraza, 41, of Marlton with conspiracy, theft by deception and commercial bribery. Named as an unindicted co-conspirator was Khamfana Sihapanya, who Belsole said cooperated with authorities under a grant of immunity from prosecution. Ifconvicted of all charges, the defendants would face up to 24 years in prison and S215,000 in fines. -AP 
Of Interest 

"Single Issue Voting" will be the topic as Notre Dame Professor Ralph Mcinerny speaks tonight at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Mcinerny will explore the idea that there is a difference between considering certain "disqualifying issues" and being "single issue" when voting. -The Observer 
A seminar onjapanesejobs and scholarships will be held tonight at 6:30 in Room 2D ofthe LaFortune Student Center. Father G. Minamiki will speak on the East West Center, Rotary Schol­arships for Japan, English Fellows programs, the Student Tour Award, and English teaching jobs. The seminar is sponsored by the College ofArts and Letters, the Foreign Studies Office, the Language Department, and the Japan Club. -The Observer 
FacultyI Course Evaluations are being dis­
tributed this week. Evaluations are available at the Library exit and at the Ombudsman desk in the LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
The Bhartata Natyam Indian Dance Troupe will perform tonight at 8 in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. The 3,000­year-old dance will feature dancer Hema Rajagopalan. She will be accompanied by voice and instruments, including the nattuvangam, mrikangam, flute and veena. The performance is free to Saint Mary's students. -The Observer 
Weather 

Showers and thunderstorms today, becoming windy and colder. High in the up­per 50s. Wind from the northwest I 5 to 30 mph. Chance of rain near 100 percent. Tonight, clearing and much colder. Low in the mid 20s. Becoming cloudy and cool Friday with a 20 percent chance of showers or snow flurries. High in the low 40s. -AP 

The~Observer~­
lbe Observer (USPS W9 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by tbe students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se· m~ster) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Production Consultant .................... Steve Design Editor ........................ Paul H. Bruce Design Assistant ................. Caroline Belin Layout Staff....................... Mark Weimbolt Typesetters .....Jennifer Bigott, Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor...............................)ohn Heasly Sports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout .............. Byron Stevens Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Cindy Boyle Features Copy Editor....... Marikris Dalum Features Layout..................... Sharon Houk ND Day Editor ................... Donna Gavigan SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Typist ...................................... Vera Hillegass Ad Design.. Suzanne LaCroix, Mary Carol Creadon Pbotograpber ........................ Chris Mclean 
Thursday, November 1, 1984 -page 2 
There's got to be a better way 
Only five days left. 

Only five days until the country can breathe a col­lective sigh of relief that the 1984 elections are finally over. 
It was approximately two years ago the first hopefuls for the presidential nomination began announcing their candidancies. Now the race is finally winding down and will come to an anti-climactic end no matter who wins. 
There must be a better way to go about electing public officials than the current American system. After two years, the combination ofendless political rhetoric, media concentration, and repetitive commercials have only served to bore the pants off most of the American public. 
Other countries know the way to go about the process. They call for general elections and actually hold them a few weeks later. This would give candi~ dates no choice. They don't have time to fool around with endless traveling, and image-making advisors. All a candidate could really do is let voters know how he stands on the issues. And 
that's all voters should be repeatedly said that "polls 
considering in elections. Not which candidate wears makeup in front of cameras, which paid more in income tax or which regularly goes to church on Sunday. 
Our election process is so bogged down with non­necessities and name­calling, the real issues get lost in the process. We have two candidates, both finding it hard to give the concise answers needed for the public to intelligently vote. 

Ronald Reagan is so busy praising freedom, the family, flag, and himself, that he won't reveal his tax plans. He is so preoccupied with telling us how admired he and the 
U.S. are overseas, he won't give us his reasons why he thinks anti-Reagan demonstations are commonplace in Europe. 
Walter Mondale tries to explain his policies and stand on the issues, but is finding it hard to get anyone to listen. People, still labeling him a "wimp" on defense, don't concentrate on much more. So Mondale ends up spending his campaign making tough statements, all in an attempt to convince the public he would rival Ronald Reagan in toughness as president. 
The ideal campaign would be an anonymous one. The candidates could make radio or print statements, explaining where each stands on foreign and domestic policy. Each could actually give tangible plans of action for reducing the deficit, slowing the arms race, and im­proving U.S. policy in the Middle East and Central America. Because they would never be seen, neither would have to worry about what suit to wear, or what lighting will look best. 

Unfortunately, the media deserves the blame for much of what is wrong with the U.S. election process. From the very beginning, in the primary races, the media can very well decide the winners, simply by choosing who they will concentrate on covering. 
Another point ofirritation is the election poll. In this area, everyone wants to get in on the act. Any paper or station that can afford the time and money conducts a poll. Each day brings a new poll, with new point differ­ences. Walter Mondale has

don't vote, people vote." Yet the danger could be uni­nformed voters voting ac­cording to polls. They may go with the candidate who seems to have the best chance of winning. Or they may decide to give their vote to the supposed under­dog. 
During the spring prima­ries, Chicago Tribune columnist Mike Royko had a great idea. He instructed his reader to lie when they were questioned for an exit-poll. This way, it would be 
hard to get accurate results. 
These last weeks ofthe campaign, the public has been barraged with television commercials costing thousands of dollars to make and air, all trying to be masters of 30 second persuasion. Both candidates have resulted to name-calling and scare tactics in ads these last few weeks. And how many Hoosiers, now to men­tion ND/SMC students, are ready to break the 1V the next time they hear a commerical for "go get 'em Wayne" Townsend? 
Well, take heart, those ofyou who haven't yet tired of the campaign yet, and will be sorry to see it end. The next election season should be beginning before you know it. 
0 LlnltadWily 

YOU CAN'T 
and no legit1mate speed read1ng course can prom1se that you "II fimsh novels faster than a speed1ng bullet' But you £ill! 1ncrease your readmg speed up to live times without sacrific1ng comprehension 
Our Breakthrough Rapid Reading pro~ gram can help you read textbooks. mail. 1ournals. novels-anything faster & more effiCiently. If lhat sounds good to you. call us 
~~-It 
Afj ~ru:ATK>NA~ 
CENTER 
TEST PREPMATlOH SPEClAUSTS SH:E 1'938 

JIEIIDINI 
SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272·4135 
WITH IAAJ6CHES IN IHOI ... NAPOLIS ANO IILOOMINClTON 
In New 'rof1ol Stale Staflley H Kaplan t::.oucauonal Center Ud 

The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 3 
Career orientation day postponed untill spring 
By FRANK LIPO Pollicita said that one student Senior StuffReporter visited a hospital with a surgeon. 'Inc student viewed two operations, 
'lbe Indianapolis Career Orienta­visited the pathology lab, visited tion Day organized by the Student with patients and participated in an Alumni Relations Group and the X-ray reading session. Alumni Association scheduled for junior and senior years are a Nov. 14 has het:n postponed until "good time to take another look and spring, according to SARG President decide if that's what you want," said jeanine Gozdecki. Pollicita. He felt that the day might 
Gozdecki said the postponement, be especially valuable to juniors so 
prompted by the Alumni Club of In­that they can tailor their remaining 
dianapolis, was "very unfortunate." classes to meet the reality they expe­
rienced on Career Orientation Day. 
"They (the Alumni Club of In­Preparation for the day is pro­
dianapolis) wanted to give the vided at a mandatory meeting 
students the best people they conducted by the Career and Place­
could," said Gozdecki. "Right now ment Office. Students are given a 
they didn't have the time to devote background on the day and are en­
was sworn in to succeed her. The assassination bas
to the students." She added that couraged to ask the right questions 
been blamed on her own Sikh bodyguards.
many alumni were involved in the of their alumni sponsors. 
presidential election and other con­Pollicita gave much of the credit 
cerns. for the program's success to John 
'Ibe program was proposed by Fisher, last year's SARG president 
student members of the SARG more and to John Short, a 1974 graduate 
Senior reflection groups a chance
than a year ago and is open to all and attorney, a former alumni board 
juniors and seniors with a limit of 35 member and coordinator the pro­
students. gram in Indianapolis. 
james Polliclta, director ofalumni "The key is to have an alumnus 
for informal discussion with peers 
continuing education at the Alumni take the bull by the horns," said Pol­
Association, said lase year's trial licita. The support of the alumni ByPATSAIN "I thought a Senior Reflection get professional training, and whe­
Career Orientation Day in In­group is essential, he added. Its SeniorStaffReporter Group would provide a place where ther to stay near home or move 
dianapolis received "universally members take the students into students could discuss these things," away, Burtchaell said. The reflection 
positive" evaluations from student their workplaces and they under­Senior year -a legendary time said Roemer. "The topics are fun, in­groups are an "institutionalized way 
and alumni participants. write much ofthe cost. when life consists of job interviews, teresting, and relevant." to share reflections" on these mat­
Polliclta commented that the day "The alumni. in Indianapolis were weekends begin on Wednesday, and "I was impressed by the students ters. 
providt·s "at least a taste of what the so accomodating," said Gozdeckl. there is no homework. in my group," said Stacy Hennessey, Seniors are also leaving Notre 
job entails on a day to day basis." She said the postponement was "in But senior year also means the a Notre Dame graduate. "A lot of Dame, said Burtchaell, and the dis· 
'lbe day is "tailored to the needs our best interests," citing the need chance to take part in a Senior people may nag ... but when push cussions "inevitably turn back" to 
of students," said Polliclta. Specific for the full cooperation of the Reflection Group. Groups consist of comes to shove, there .is a deep reflections on time spent at Notre 
career areas are not offered, stu­Alumni Club of Indianapolis. 16 seniors each, and meet four times caring and respect for an individual. Dame. Students do not get many 
dents are instead asked to choose a Gozdecki said a Career Orienta­during the second semester for din­"The groups are very diverse," chances to have "nice occasions" 
career, type of employer, or specific tion Day is also planned for the ner and informal discussion. At the Hennessey said. "We went from like this, Burtchaell said. 
organization they are interested in. spring in Detroit, but "nothing has end ofthe semester, each group has cheerleaders to CILA members -"The atmosphere at Notre Dame 
Next they are paired with an been finalized." an overnight retreat. people who would normally never is competitive and hectic," said 
alumnus for a day of work. He said a Charles Lennon, executive direc­The dinners and discussions are get together were sitting across the Roemer. "It is important to have a 
"very close approximate match" can tor of the Alumni Association, said held at the home of a Notre Dame table from each other." time to relax and reflect on where 
usually he found. "the size (of the Indianapolis career faculty or stall member, and arc or­"A nice comraderie builds up be­one is going, what one has learned at 
Last year students were ac­day) is right." He said any career day ganized and run by the students in tween the members," said Roemer. Notre Dame, what people one has 
comodated in "the type of profes­in the future would have to meet the the groups. Four members of each "We try to organize a diverse group­met, and how one has changed 
sions that Notre Dame students tend distance requirement of one day for group set up and run each meeting · that's important. We do not want during four years at Notre Dame." 
to enter." Students chose such fields a round trip to the city. An alumnus including cooking the dinner and only students involved with social Most ofthe seniors involved in the as law, television, medicine, health, to act as the "contact person" at the leading the discussions. Each stu­justice, or just student government, reflection groups seem to think that accounting, banking, journalism and club level would also have to be dent in a group helps out once or just academics. We get a mix." the experience has been beneficial. finance. 'lbey asked for such com­found. "We're learning to run these during the semester. "The idea is not to know everyone The once-a-month outing provides panies as IBM, General Motors, and things with Indianapolis," said Len­Seniors interested in participating in your group beforehand, but to get an opportunity to discuss issues that Indiana Bell. non. in a reflection group next semester to know them," said Susan Fleck, are on their minds, get to know 
should sign up at the Center for So­also a Notre Dame graduate. other seniors In an informal setting, 
cial Concerns as soon as possible. "During the first semester, and enjoy a home-cooked meal at tions and my desire that all focus "The reflection groups came out (seniors) are seeking options for the the same time. What goes on at the their energies on campus activity
Sibs 

ofbeing around Notre Dame seniors future," said Father )ames meeting is carried back to campus, programs for Notre Dame students, I and seeing them become nostalgic Burtchaell, C.S.C. "In the second se­where the seniors continue to ex­feel it is necessary to withhold my
continuedfrom page 1 and reflective before graduation," mester, there are choices to be change ideas and build friendships
approval ofthe proposal." 
said Mary Ann Roemer, the reflec­made. Seniors have no regular with one another. 
rectors and received a very clear There are no plans to appeal tion group coordinator. "Also, a lot forum" to talk about the decisions "Everything has worked out consensus against the Little Sibs Tyson's decision, according to Ber­
of students become cynical," or that must be made. great," said Ann Butler, a former Weekend. This concensus tino, because, "The same thing 
have questions about events in their Seniors face decisions about reflection group member. "The combined with my own reserva-would happen." 

lives, she said. 


CLASSICAL DANCE OF INDIA 
BY 
Ms. Hema Rajagopalan 
Accompanied by Live Music at Saint Mary's Little Theatre 

Thursday, November 1 -8 p.m. $3°0 -General $2°0 -Student & Senior Citizens 
Event Sponsored by Indiana Arts Commission National Endowment for the Arts Michiana Arts & Services Council, Inc. 
careers and family, when and if to whole group was really neat." 

15cro Discount 
~-not including . 
sale ttems 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

Tniversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 4 
r r 
r f 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ ~ ~ 
~­
The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 5 
IDbe iKniglyt& oftlteQ!astle 
Grace intrahall cable TV system up 
By MATT DOLAN 
News Staff 
The antenna had to be replaced, and some cable boxes had to be rebuilt, but Grace Hall residents are finally getting homemade cable tele­vision, according to former Hall President Pete Dichiara. 
In 1969, when Grace and Flanner Halls were built, they were provided with the facilities to support their own intrahall cable systems. The an­tenna and cable network now enable Grace to receive Chicago television stations and also to air its own tapes over the system. 
"The system has tremendous po­tential, and we are now exploring different ways to utilize the system," 
let US do your shipping: 
U.P.S. EMERY PARCEL POST 
SHIPPING ETC. 
University Center, Grape Rd. Adjacent to Macri's Deli 
Need Extra Christmas 
MONEY?? 
Telephone Sales-Experience 
preferred but not required. 
Part or Full time. 
CALL 234-0573 

, . ,•\·'_ --M$en's Hair Styling at its finest 
minutes from campus 
• 
OOHAIRCUTS 
272-0312 
277-1691 
$8.50 
Haircut shampoo 
~ 
"t-1"> \ _\ ll'rran~ Lmt· 
blowdry
( ~~ Kd 2 .~) 

kro'' trom Marlm's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 


r----------·-----------,
Pay only $5.99 lor a
$5.99 
12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes· .
Special 
Expires in one week. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ 
FREE. 
You've been studying for hours. The pages are blurring and your stomach is stirring. So why not take a break and call Domino's Pizza? We'll be there with a hot, custom-made pizza in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our pizzas are made with 100% real dairy cheese and fresh, not frozen, toppings. Now isn't that worth contemplating! 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza Domino's Deluxe 5 1tems for the pnce of 4 Pepperom. Mushrooms. Omans, Green Peppers and Sausage 12" deluxe$ 8.55 16" deluxe $12.35 
12" cheese $4.99  ~  
16" cheese $7.19  
®  


Electives Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Black Olives. Onions. Green Olives, Sausage, Ground Beef. Ham. Green Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Thick Crust 12" pizza$ .89 per 1tem 16" pizza $1.29 per 1tem 
Coke"i16oz. bottles. 59¢. 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 
Limited Delivery Area 

Pnces do not mclude apphcable sales talC 
c 1984 Oomtno s P•zza Inc 

said Father David Noone, Grace Hall rector. "However, due to copyright laws we are unable to show copyrighted materials." 
This means that the showing of movies and videotapes is not permit­ted. Noone prefers not to use the system for movies since it would not help bring the students of Grace to­gether. 
"If we used the system to show movies, it would only succeed in keeping the students in their room," said Noone. "We would rather show movies on our big screen television to bring students together." 
The system has capabilities besides entertainment. Noone and the hall staff hope to be able to use 
Careers 
continuedfrom page I 
to help Arts and Letters majors realize the wide range of job oppur­tunities available to them and pro­vide the resources to help students identify their interest.~ and pursue their goals. As part of this program, the society invites potential employers to Notre Dame and ar­ranges interviews for prospective applicants. 
Arnold also notes that advance planning is a crucial part of the job­seeking process. "I think that for the student who does not make an ex­traordinary effort on his or her own behalf, the application process can be extremely difficult," she said. "It is not easy to get a job for anybody ­it requires a lot of time and effort. But I believe it is not inconceivable that, with the right preparation and motivation, every good student can get a job, whether he orshe is an Arts and Letters major or not." 
"There are so many erroneous misconceptions l:oncerning Arts and Letters majors," Arnold adds, that the actual job situation becomes obscured in commonly held, yet completely false, ideas. 
For example, the relatively high percentage of Arts and Letters graduates who opt for continuing education programs-57 percent of the system as an educational tool. 
"The lectures of classes with a large amount of Grace students in them, such as 'Emil' and Economics could be taped and aired at a later date as a review for tests," said Hall President Todd McMullen. 
The system can also be used to show non-copyrighted materials such as various taped campus events. "The Keenan Revue and other campus events could be aired over the sytem for entertainment," said Noone. 
The uses of the system are wide ranging and unique. In the future, students of Grace Hall could have more to watch on television. They could possibly watch "Dynasty" and then catch an 'Emil' lecture. 
the seniors enrolled in the college · is often interpreted as an indication oflow job availability. 
Arnold dismisses that notion, maintaining that "while this percentage may be higher for the Arts and Letters graduate, this is of­ten because the careers they have 
. aspired to have higher entrance re­quirements than a bachelor's degree. The idea that he or she enters graduate school simply be· cause they can't find a job is com· pletely false." 
Professor Walter Nicgorski, director of the program of liberal studies, agrees. Almost three-fourths of the program's graduates last year now attend some form of graduate school pursuing programs in law, business, and education. Nicgorski insists, however, that this percentage, while appearing rather high, arises from comprehensive career planning which begins in ear­nest during the student's junior year. It does not represent a random deci· sion due to lack ofalternatives. 
"We find in general that Arts and Letters students in particular do not think enough about what they're going to do after graduation," Nic· gorski notes, "so we try to encour­age them to plan ahead." 
He adds, however, that "any Arts and Letters major usually will be able to do very well in interviewing if they have confidence in them· selves and in their ability to think clearly and present themselves well" to their prospective employer. 
The Observer 
Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following 
position:_ 

Assistant News Editor 
eResponsible for production of news section one night per week. 
e Observer experience necessary. 
e Salaried position. 
Submit applilcations and a personal statement to Sarah or Dan by 5 p.m. Friday. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313 
The Observer 3rd Floor, Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
---~ --~--­
The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 6 

,r 
, 
,r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
, r r r r 
! r 
r r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
f
,. 
,. 
,. 

You can be part of the greatest alliance in American business history -Electronic Data Systems and General Motors. 1bis alliance combines the information processing strengths of EDS with the resources of the largest company in the nation. And with it comes vast opportunities for you -the kind that business professionals can spend their entire careers seeking. You're already starting at the top with our outstanding resources for growth and success. And the only way to go is up. 
We're looking for self-starters -people with the confidence to set high goals and the determination to reach them. We want to put you at the core of EDS' operations as a Systems Engineer. EDS Systems Engineers use both business and technical skills to solve complex problems for our clients. And every EDS Systems Engineer has graduated from our nationally-recognized Systems Engineering Development (SED) Program. 
The SED Program will prepare you for the leadership responsibilities you will have in the EDS and GM alliance. It lasts approximately 18 months and will undoubtedly be one of the most rigorous and rewarding business experiences ofyour life. You'll receive intensive classroom training, and you'll also have the chance to deal directly with our customers. You'll gain knowledge that will place you far ahead of your peers. And when you graduate, you'll have an exciting position with unlimited growth potential. 
To qualify for the SED Program, you must be a college graduate with a technical aptitude and an outstanding record of achievement. You should have a major in Management Information Systems, Computer Information Systems, Computer Science, or Engineering. We will also consider candidates with any academic major and a strong interest in business and information processing. In addition, you must be flexible to relocate and travel. Finally, you must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Ifyou are a successful candidate, EDS will reward you with a competitive compensation package. And you're sure to thrive in our cotparate environment where rewards are based on achievement -not seniority. 

TAKE THE FIRST STEP 
TOWARDJOINING THE 
GREATEST ALLIANCE IN 
AMERICAN BUSINESS 
HISTORY. 
Contact your college placement office today to schedule an interview with a local EDS recruiter. Or, write to: Electronic Data Systems Corporation, 7171 Forest Lane, Dallas, TX 75230. 
(214) 661-6060. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
EOS 
Electronic Data Systen1s Corporation 


Thursday, November 1, 1984 -page 7 
Accent 

Kenny fills ACC with country fans 
by Karen McCloskey 
features staffwriter 

M
oms, dads and kids were a part bination ofswirling spotlights, of the Kenny Rogers Family mixtures oforange and violet Show that two-stepped its way into shading, and stage border highlight­the Notre Oame ACC Tuesday ing. The evening was a triple night. Country-pop fans in great presentation ofenthusiasm, sophis­numbers packed the arena to near tication, and entertainment. capacity to hear the likes of national recording artists Sawyer Brown, Brown opened the show, appro­female vocal star Crystal Gayle, and priately enough, with "I'm Going the main attra'-'tion, Kenny Rogers. Back to Indiana. " The band encour­
aged the audience to clap, shout, 
Yes, this was one of those con­and otherwise "party." The crowd certs you could send your own responded enthusiastically to mom to and not fear for her well­Brown's lively, country perfor­being. And kids were there, too. mance. 
Gayle's spotlighted entrance in a Some children came with their white sequin gown precipitated parents to sit in the arena, while sophistication to the atmosphere of 
I 
Gayle's 14-month-old daughter, the arena. Gayle performed many of ,Katherine Clare, was carried around her successful releases including \ , ,
i 
the stage by her mom. And Chris­"Talkin' in Your Sleep" and "Don't , topher Cody, son of Rogers, made It Make my Brown Eyes Blue." She \ ., his appearance on four video also performed a personal favorite, \. ., screens that were lowered from the "He's So Beautiful to Me," which 
, 
light bars above the stage. showed the full range and expres­
~ 
sion ofher voice. Gayle embel­, 
'I11e stage itself was an octagonal lished her show with anecdotes walkway that surrounded an or­about her personal life, including chestral pit for the supporting her family's move to Wabash, 
musicians. Playing In the round Is Indiana. somewhat more difficult than per­forming on a traditional rectangular Rogers limited his comments stage. In the round, the performer about Indiana during his time on always ha.~ his or her hack turned stage. He did, however, perform 
towards a portion of the audience. most ofhis hit songs from past years 
Wednesday night, the performers including "Lucille," "She Believes in handled the round stage quite well. Me," and "Islands in the Stream." Only Rogers seemed ill at ease with Rogers also unveiled several cuts 
the arrangement. 'lbere were no from his newly released album. One 
real problems with his perfor­song, "Crazy For You," was a crowd mance, hut he would have looked favorite and may, according to more natural sitting on a stool or a Rogers, be the next single to be chair rather than continuously released. strolling around the stage. 
Tho Observer /Phil Deeter 
'lbe lighting for the show wa.~ In addition to his stage perfor­Impressively arranged. Color mance, Rogers used video screens "The Gambler" with clips from his Solid performances, good techni­Dame ACC. Kenny Rogers and schemes for Brown were simple but on two occasions: once to accom­movie The GamblerII. Rogers also cal work, and an enthusiastic audi­friends presented a show that is effective, while Gayle's sets were pany a videotape ofhis son's first announced the production ofhis ence combined to create an popular nationwide and looks to sophisticated and dramatic. Roger's year with his version of"You Are So latest movie The GamblerIll with enjoyable evening ofentertainment continue its success in future light show was an Imaginative com-Beautiful To Me" and again to sing linda Evans and Tom Sellick. for country music fans at the Notre engagements. 
U2 burns like a spark in the dark 

forgettable Fire Is a U2 album, and guitar playing. The rhythm section, than It might have otherwise been. 
taking into consideration what this consisting ofAdam Clayton on bass On "MLK," the closing track, band has done and what it has the and Larry Mullen Junior on drums, Bono beautifully gives the listener 
Tim Adams 
features staff writer 

capability of doing, the album is a compliments the Edge perfectly The Unforgettable Fire's message. slight disappointment. The Unfor­and also emphasizes the impas­He sings: 
gettable Fire isn't a bad album, but sioned singing of B0£10. No other 1 expected a little bit more of this song really comes close to "Pride," Sleep, sleep tonight talented Irish quartet. in terms ofexcitement generated, And mayyour dreams be realized fll2's new album, The Unforget­any other band, I would have been U2's 1983 album, War, was a except possibly "Wire." It begins Ifthe thundercloudpasses raitl 
/ table Fire, wa.~ made by almost pleased at the results, but The Un-mini-masterpiece ofspirited rock, with some ethereal_guitar, and soon So let it rain with its overt politics, urgent Mullen junior and the Edge storm Rain dowtl on ye playing, and passionate singing of in and lead the way through the 
Bono. Songs such as "New Year's song. With its rumbling bass and Bono tells us to be like Martin Lut­
Day" and "40" were both moving piercing vocals, "Wire" recaptu_res her King: he wants us to reach high and enjoyable. On The Unforget­some of the excitement ofWar and and strive hard for our goals, yet to table Fire, however, such ofBoy, their debut LP. be content with what God has in 
memorable songs are less Bono's singing, in general, saves mind for us. Ifit rains, let it rain. numerous. parts ofThe Unforgettable Fire that The Unforgettable Fire is an 
The first single from the album, would otherwise be listless and album of hopeful idealism coming "Pride (In the Name ofLove),"is a boring. Much of the music onFire Is from one ofrock's biggest idealist great, catchy song, but unfortun­low-key and restrained, which is the groups. Bono & Company want to ately it is also the best song on the style ofU2's new producer, Brian 
Records 

put across a message of tranquility album. The subject of the song, Eno. Their previous producer, Steve and love by playing softer and in­Martin Luther King, is a prominent Ullywhite, had created a literal 
jecting meaningful lyrics in their figure and theme inFire. Bono sings sonic attack in emphasizing songs. Two songs, the pointless about him and his struggle to reach booming drums and loud guitar. On 
instrumental "4th ofJuly," and the "the promised land": The Unforgettable Fire, however. excessively long "Elvis Presley and the band's rawness plays second America," which exceeds six One man come in the name oflove fiddie to the textural quality of the minutes oflistening time, prevent Otze man come andgo album. Fire from reaching its potential of One man come bere to justify In the song "Bad," for instance, being a great album. I respect ll2 One man to overthrow Mullen junior's drumming is for avoiding the obvious move of In the name oflove restrained to the point ofsounding retaining the services of Lillywhlte One more in the name oflove like subdued tribal drumming. and simply rehashing War. U2 is a 
Bono's fiery singing makes this song top-rate band who wants to chal­In this song, U2 satiates the desire a success. When he screams, "I'm lenge its fans, both musically and to hear straightforward jamming. wide awake," the song is idealistically. In today's superficial The Edge drives the song on by redeemed,and his vocals on the title and noncommittal music world, U2 utilizing his famous choppy style of track, too, make this song better burns like a spark in the dark. 

l 
r 
r ~i~~~_()__i__Jl__t________~------Th-u-rsd-ay-,N-ov-em-b-er-1,_19_8_4_p_ag_e_8 
r I 
,, Missing the mark on leadership qualities 
r  One of the  central  issues of the  1984  
r r r r r  presidential campaign ­a reason why the cam­paign seems eternally long during its final weeks ­is that ofleadership. Leadership is the ability to inspire, to direct. It is the rare quality of being able to charac­ 
~  terize  our  country,  to  enunciate  themes  
r  
Chris Robinson  

a larger view 
around which we can rally, to put things in perspective and to excite us about moving in one direction or another. 
We have had such leaders throughout the history of the United States: traditional favorites like Thomas Jefferson, Patrick Henry and Abraham Lincoln, and more recent exam­ples likejohn F. Kennedy, Everett Dickson and Barbara Jordan. 
These leaders have excelled in communica­tion skills which have not only united us as 

r 
people but which have made us distinctly

,. 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r The following is reproduced from these sources: Congressional Quarterly, 1984
r 
Democratic National Platform, 1984 Repub­

r 
lican National Platform, and The Washing­

r 
ton Post. 
With perhaps one of the most important elections in recent history less than one week away, it is necessary that each voter be made 
Bill Krais 
self-transcendency 
aware of how the two candidates stand con: cerning certain pertinent issues. Below is an account of how each of these men regard the important issues and concerns. 
Regarding arms control: Mondale supports a nuclear freeze while Reagan opposes one. Reagan supports his proposed "Star Wars" program and Mondale opposes it. Reagan sup­ports production ofboth the B-1 bomber and "human." Notable figures in the public arena have made the greatest contributions to na­tional life by being able to transcend geogra­phic, social, economic and political boundaries. Their vehicle is the centrality of the word, whether spoken, written, printed or broadcasted. These figures have had the abil­ity to use language in the broadest sense to reach out to new groups, mold public opinion and exert strong leadership in the national in­terest. 
Unfortunately, neither Ronald Reagan nor Walter Mondale has exhibited such talents. Reagan, the frontrunner and probable winner, alternates between a jocular approach and one of intense, fatherly directness. His style either relieves deep-seated social problems or international disasters with a toss of the head and a wink ofthe eye, or bears down on issues with the convincing authority of presidential power. He reassures us that the world is, after all, all right and that if we trust and believe in America's greatness, glorious days will be ahead. 
Mondale, on the other hand, fades to gray as he confronts television cameras and radio ap­paratus. With his dull, haggard look, drooping eyes and a speaking style much too punctuated with short, choppy, simple­sounding phrases, Mondale is ponderous, al­most boring in a fast-paced electronic age. Mondale is an honest and sincere gentleman who tugs at the heartstrings ofAmerica, but he seems to shine only by adopting a vicious, below-the-belt fighting rhetoric. He merci­lessly ripped into Hart in the primaries, some­thing for which he is being penalized in the general election. This style appeals to the American public for a time, as much as foot· ball injuries or race car smashups appeal to certain instincts. But we cannot have a leader waxing unpredictably hot and cold, alternat­ing between Calvin Coolidge one moment and Attila the Hun the next. The American people simply do not want that kind of suspense incarnated into a position of top na­tionalleadership for the next four years. 

The Reagan-Mondale match is interesting in that each must be wary of behavioral ex­tremes. Reagan's loose, flexible style (which fits into the cool medium of television) sub­jects him to charges ofnot possessing full con­trol of the presidency, not being well 
informed on vital issues, or being too old for 
the job. Mondale's old-time, backroom politician's image (which makes him appear like a subject in a police line-up) is a whiplash in that the harder he tries to get his message across to the electorate, the more the media experts tell him to "loosen up" and act flexible (like Reagan!). 
What we need is a leader. And both candi­dates are missing the mark. We need someone who not only has invested their lives in public service, but who knows bow to harness the avatlable methods ofcommunication to pro­vide effective leadership. We need leadership which makes us feel proud to be a part of the political process, which not only identifies the issues, something which has been only par· tially done by Reagan and Mondale, but which clearly communicates them to the public as well. 
Chris Robinson ts a doctoral student in sociology at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
r 
r 
This is how each of the candidates stand 
the MX missile while Mondale opposes pro­duction of both weapons. President Reagan supports a military spending increase of 7.5 percent while Mondale wishes to increase military spending by 3 to 4 percent. 
On Central America: President Reagan wishes to continue U.S. military aid to the Nicaraguan rebels while Mondale wishes to discontinue this aid to the contras. Mondale supports giving U.S. aid to El Salvador as long as it is connected to human rights. Reagan favors continuing all U.S. aid to El Salvador, including military funding. Mondale supports the Contadora process for a negotiated peace­ful settlement in the region. Reagan has failed thus far to take a stand regarding the Con­tadora process. Reagan wants to leave military forces in Honduras while Mondale wishes to remove all U.S. troops from the region. Mondale opposes the mining of Nicaraguan harbors as well as all types of terrorist attacks in the area while Reagan supports the harbor minings. 
Concerning the economy: Mondale proposes that the federal deficit be cut through tax reform and cutting military spending increases. Reagan wants to cut the federal deficit through an economic recovery for increased revenue as well as through the general cutting of federal spending. Mondale opposes a balanced budget amendment while Reagan supports one. Mondale wants to target training programs regarding jobs for youth while Reagan supports a subminimum wage. 

Regarding civil rights: Mondale supports both the Equal Rights Amendment and equal pay for work of comparable worth. Reagan opposes each of these points. Mondale opposes a constitutional amendment prohibiting abortion while Reagan supports one. Mondale supported the Voting Rights Act of 1961 while Reagan signed it only after ini­tially opposing it. Mondale supports busing to integrate schools and Reagan opposes busing. 
Concerning the environment: Mondale supports pollution controls to reduce acid rain; Reagan opposes such controls. Mondale supports an increase in funding for a hazar· dous waste Superfund; Reagan takes no posi­tion. Mondale wants to compensate toxic exposure victims; Reagan takes no position. Mondale wants to tax hazardous waste pro­ducers; Reagan takes no position. 
Lastly, higher education: In 1981, President Reagan cut federal student loans, grants and other forms of student aid. Mondale favors strengthening federal financial assistance for college students. Mondale wants to maintain the Department of Education while Reagan wishes to abolish it. 
So this is how they stand. It does not take a political scientist to realize that these two can­didates are diametrically opposed. Much depends on the outcome of this election; therefore, take it seriously, analyze the issues and vote with your conscience. 
Bill Krats is a sophomore in the Program of Liberal Studies and is regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
Ronald Reagan's so-called "Defense" policy 
Recently on campus, a surge ofinterest has arisen in regard to abortion. Regarding an· other equally-compelling life issue, however, the apathy and ignorance has been apparent. I 
Peggy Healy 
guest column 
am referring to the U.S. nuclear defense policy and efforts, or lack thereof, .towards arms con­trol. Since his inauguration, President Reagan has made virtually no serious attempts at arms control and has begun development and deployment ofmany first-strike weapons. This posture, while dangerous, nevertheless is con­sistent with Reagan's past positions. In fact, 
Reagan opposed the 1963 above-ground test ban treaty, the 1968 Non-Proliferation Treaty, SALT I, SALT II and the ABM Treaty, thus gaining the dubious distinction of never sup­porting a single nuclear arms control agree­ment. Moreover, the weapons supported by the Reagan Administration are destabilizing to deterrence and reflect a growing U.S. first· strike capability. 
First of all, under the Reagan administra­tion, production of the MX missile has begun. This highly-accurate weapon is capable of destroying Soviet missile silos, thus making it an offensive, first-strike weapon. Moreover, the MX does not alleviate the supposed ICBM "window of vulnerability" because it is being deployed in the same vulnerable silos that the Minuteman currently occupies. Acknowledg­ing these facts, the administration was forced to argue for it, not as a weapon to increase the defensive capability of the U.S. but rather as a bargaining chip. To date, Reagan has not ex· plained exactly how one uses a "barga)ning chip" when one is unwilling to sincerely negotiate. 
In addition to the MX, Reagan has also begun deploying Pershing II and cruise missiles in Western Europe, despite massive popular resistance there. These weapons are inimical both to present deterrence and future arms control possibilities. For instance, the Pershing II is capable ofreaching Moscow in six minutes, thereby forcing the Soviets closer to launch-on-warning policy and greatly increasing the potential for an acci­dently nuclear exchange. As a result, the Pershing II is viewed as a first-strike weapon by the Soviet Union. Furthermore, the cruise missile is small enough to be hidden and/or transported without detection. Thus, any future efforts at setting a numerical limit on the cruise missiles would be met with insu· 
perable obstacles. 
Thirdly, the latest Reagan proposal is the Strategic Defense Initiative or, as it's more commonly known, the "Star Wars" space­based defense system. This initiative has the dual function of promoting instability while appearing to provide protection. According to Reagan, such a system would form an im· penetrable shield over the U.S. against nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, this plan is fatally flawed in a variety ofways. 
First of all, the envisioned space-based defense system is widely conceded to be a technological impossibility. The chief of re­search for the Pentagon has even acknowl· edged that the proposed plan would necessitare breakthroughs in eight different technologies ofthe magnitude of the Manhat­tan Project -which produced the first atomic bombs. Moreover, even ifsuch a system were possible, countermeasures enacted by the So­viet Union easily could nullify its effe.:tivc­ness. For example, the system could simply be 

saturated with real or decoy .missiles. This op­tion would either involve the build-up of more Soviet missiles or the placement ofmore warheads on existing missiles. 
Alternatively, cruise missiles could be built up by the Soviets. Since these missiles fly lower, they do not leave the atmosphere and thus would not be affected by any space-based defense system. In any case, the cost to the Soviet Union of the countermeasures would be much less than that to the U.S. of the SDI. Finally, the whole concept ofa defense shield is destabilizing to deterrence because it pur­ports to retain US ability to inflict damage upon the Soviet Union while negating the So­viet capability to do likewise. Such a proposal is clearly destructive in its effect on mutual perceptions. 
Lastly, Reagan has demonstrated a total lack of sincerity in whatever negotiations the ad­ministration has seen fit to undertake thus far. The "zero-zero" option, used as a propaganda ploy in the US by the Reagan administration, was absurd from its inception and was never meant as a feasible proposal. In effect, this proposition called upon the Soviet Union to dismantle all ofits intermediate-range missile aimed at Western Europe and, in return, the 
U.S. would refrain from deploying the Persh­ing II and cruise missiles in Europe. This pro­posal, however, refused to take into account the 162 British and French missiles which are currently being modernized with multiple warheads (not to mention the missile on US subs in the region.) The "zero-zero" option, then, would actually give NATO a substantial advantage and was designed to be unaccepta­ble to the Soviet Union. 
While the above areas do not adequately reflect all the dangers of the Reagan adminis­tration's nuclear defense policy, they none­theless do indicate the general trends. If Reagan is re-elected, the situation will un­doubtedly deteriorate further, and the result­ing damage may well be irreversible. Such an issue should be of prime consideration on Nov.6. 
Peggy Healy is a senior government/ptPP major atNotre Dame. 
Got an opinion, drop us a ljne 
Viewpotnt rtbt only provides you encourages all Of Its '-uters to fully an opportunity to resporul to tbe expore and voice tbelr opinions. columns, articles und Illustrations Simply sendyour letter toP. 0. Box Q printed Ibis newspaper, but tbrougb or dellever It to our office. Leners 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you should be no longer lban 150 words 
c.n address Issues wblcb bave not In length and guest columns should been ralud to your satlsfactiOit In notexued600 words. All worlu must Ibis Viewpoint besigned. 
-~~-~-----­

"ieVVP.~O_i_n_t~------~--------------------------------~Th~u~rs~d~ay~,~N~o~ve=m=b~e=r~l~,~~9~8~4~~p=a~ge~9 
The grave threat nuclear weapons pose 
Nudcar weapons present a grave threat to mankind and civilization. No one disputes this point Disputes concerning nuclear weapons arise when various proposals for eliminating the nuclear threat are considered. Idealists propose tremendous political and moral 
Peter S. Bowen 
guest column 

changes as the method to best eliminate the nuclear threat. Realists propose nuclear weap­ons agreements to reduce the nuclear threat. '!here are problems with both approaches. 
'lhe idealists argue that vast political l.·hanges are justified due to the new and radi­cally different type threat that nuclear weap­ons pose to mankind. lltey believe that if the people of the earth just realize how large the nuclear threat is, some kind of tremendous moral and political transformation will occur. 'Ibis in turn will result somehow in the com­plete elimination of nuclear weapons. But nu­clear weapons cannot be wished away. 
Man has discovered the technology that makes the nuclear threat possible and cannot undiscover it. Attempts to even limit the spread of this technology are proving fruitless a1> more and more nations direct their re­sources toward the development of "the bomb." Even if nuclear weapons were diminatcd completely from the face of the t·arth, how long would it take for them to n.·ap­pcar? No country could take the chance that an opponent posst·sst·d a nudrar wt'apon. 
A fair deal providing a dignified retirement 

/Jear l:'ditor: 
'Ihe present structure of the social security program is a blatantly illegal pyramid scheme. In a pyramid scheme, the first people in are tht· winners, and the last people who partici­pate will always lose whatever they put in. 
Exat·tly tht· same thing is happening in the 1>ocial security program bt·causc unfunded obligations for an ever-increasing group ofso­cial stTurity recipients arc being financed by a gnmp containing a fewer number of new workt•r1>. 'Ihc result is that contributions made by both employers ami employees arc in­creasing at an exponential rate which cannot bt· Mlstaint·d and this spdl1> disaster for it. 
A1> an cxampk. the projected yearly contri­bution into sodal sn·urity by a non-self· t·mployed individual earning in excess of the taxabk maximum will he S1.2.'i00 in the year .WOO and 5:'>6.000 in .2010. If you arc curious, the projt·ctcd individual contribution in 20.:\0 will ht· a maximum of 5.290,000. For the small bu!>int·ssmen, farmers and ranchers the taxes are even more staggering. 
Because sclf-dt·struction of the existing so­cial security program is assured, the program must ht· quickly transformed into a savings program similar to the Individual Retirement Account. 
An imlividual must receive an income-tax crnlit equal to his or her social security con­tribution. providt·d that that amount is actu­ally inve1>tcd in an IRA.l.ikcwisc,thc employer must also rccdvc an incomt·-tax credit if that amount is invested in a defined-contribution pension plan for the employee. 'Ibis will allc­viatt· tht· problems caust·d by the delay invest­ing and lal.·k of portability assodatcd with defined· payment pension plans. 
Present sodal security rc<:ipicnts should han· their payments taxed as ordinary irKomt·. Relief to low-income retired people em be achicvt·d by allowing an additional incomt··tax exemption at five-year age intcr­val1>. At tht· ane of 70, three exemptions arc 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
caused a period of tremendous philosophical and moral reflection. lltere were all sorts of movements to ban war. The Kellogg-Briand Pact was signed during this time outlawing war forever. Nations from all over the world signed it. How long did it have any real effect? What usually happens in the end is that evil leaders like Hitler, Stalin and Mussolini use the good intentions of these anti-war people against them. The people who desire so much to prevent war soon find themselves in a war. Even if a widespread spiritual conversion took place, by what mechanism do the idealists propose to convert this into real effect with respect to the Soviets and Chinese? The idealists must realize that their proposals lack any possibility of realization, that nuclear weapons simply cannot be wished away. Keeping the nuclear threat in the forefront of 
our mind at all times, as Hogan proposes, will not solve the problem; realistic policies are what is needed. 
More realistic people propose nuclear arms agreements. But there is a big problem with arms agreements. As nuclear weapons proliferate, it will become progressively more difficult to find agreements that all nuclear na­tions will ratify. Furthermore, agreements will never eliminate or really reduce the threat. The need for deterrence will prevent any na­tion from reducing their nuclear weapons levels below the point at which they can do unacceptable damage to their opponents. Arms agreements will also become less verifiable as nations develop silo second fire capabilities, small midget missiles and cruise missiles. The answer is not to attempt to prevent the development of destabilizing 
Mere suspicion that a foe possessed or was 
building a weapon would cause a new arms 
race. 

The moral conversion that is being pro­posed is unlikely to cause such a political ef­fect that nuclear weapons would be forever eliminated. The horrors of World War I weapons, for their development and employ­.ment cannot be stopped. There is another an­
swer. 

Mankind has been faced throughout history 
with destabilizing weapons. The longbow, the 
musket, the rifle and the machine gun are ex­
amples of destabilizing weapons. There is a 
usual pattern of response to these develop­
ments. First, there is an attempt to ban or limit 
the weapon. When this fails, a defensive coun­
termeasure that reduces or neutralizes the 
threat is developed. An excellent example of 
this is the development of the tank to counter the threat of the machine gun. 
If we don't blow ourselves up first, some­one will develop etfe<.'tive countermeasures to ICBMs, SLBMs, cruise missiles, and the rest. It is inevitable. We should devote ourselves to the development of the countermeasures that will reduce the nuclear threat and, at the same time, pursue those agreements that will reduce tensions and the likelihood of nuclear war. This is the way that the nuclear threat will be eliminated in the end. We can spend our time wishing nukes away, prolonging the amount of time that we live in the threat of nuclear war. Or we can get moving and work to develop those things that will eliminate or reduce the threat of worldwide devastation. I 
prefer to get moving. 
PeterS. Bowen is a junior in the Program ofLiberal Studies at Notre Dame. 
Vote in Mock Election 

Today you can vote in the Notre Dame Mock Election for President Reagan or former Vice-President Walter Mondale in the LaFortune Student Center at the Ombudsman Information Desk on the first floor. Your vote will give a good reflection of the Notre Dame community's attitude towards the candidates. Please take the time to do so. 

P.O.BoxQ 

allowed, four at 7'5 and so forth. Do you not call this having compassion for retired people? 
'Ibis reform plan does not cut social secur­ity benefits nor does it reduce contributions. Instead it will provide an income tax credit to employees that voluntarily contribute to an IRA savings account and to employers that contribute to a pension plan for that em­ployee. What greater gift can we get from Uncle Sam than a fair deal that provides us a retirt:ment with dignity? 
RobertA. Dahlquist Orange, Calif 

Applying irrelevant moral principles 
Dear Editor: 
It never fails to amuse me when people at­tach irrelevant moral principles to events and actions which are as minor as booing after a football game. 'lbe fans have been more than patient in putting up with apathetic play and t·oaching mistakes which are not made by the Mishawaka Cavemen. lltcy have paid good money a11d have sat in the rain for two weeks to watch and support the team. If the fans do not feel that they arc adequately repres ented on the field and the play does not befit the fine Notre Dame name, they have every right in the world to boo. 
lbis is what happened at the Miami and the Air Force games. Notre Dame has lost before without anyone booing. It is the way Notre Dame is losing which is offending people. llte fact that Gerry Faust is a nice guy has ab­solutely nothing to do with it. We are not booing Faust, we are booing the job he is doing as coach. 
Faust is a nice guy, but he's probably not coaching the football team well because he is not qualified. If someone isn't doing the job he is hired for, he's fired, no questions asked. Being a nice guy doesn't even enter the picture because it has nothing to do with it. If 
(219) 239-5303 

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa111t Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of the adm1111Strat1on of e1ther inst1tut1on. The news 1S reported as accurately and as ObJeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tor1als represent the op111ion of a rnaronty of the Ed1t011al Board Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the cornmun1ty, and the free expresSIOn of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged 
the fans feel Faust is not doing his job, the dis­
play ofdiscontent in the form ofbooing is only 
natural. 

Why should fans have to take abuse from 
people like ). Michael Vore, Theron Roberts 
and Mike Sullivan? These are not "turncoat" 
fans. They arc people like myself who have 
supported the Irish since they have been able 
to talk. 'Iltcse are people who hate to see the 
fine football tradition at Notre Dame 
diminished by an ill-run, ill-prepared organi­
zation. 

Booing does not mean that fans are not 
backing the team. Iffans were not backing the 
team, they wouldn't show at games. As a fan, I 
will continue to support the Irish. Ifl don't see 
players hustling to the line after the huddle 
and, if I see fumbled snaps and delay of game 
penalties and, if in general I am not satisfied 
with the representation of this university in 
the game of football. I will boo. This is my 
right. If, however, the team loses a hard­
fought, well-coached game, I will applaud the 
efforts of team and staff. 

As a major college coach, Faust is a disap­
pointment. '!bat is the reason for the boos, not 
because people dislike the man but because 
the job is not getting done. Nothing morally 
sinister is happening, nobody is lowering 
themselves by booing. It is a display ofdiscon­
tent which is justified and should continue if 
mistakes are not corrected. 

WernerGraf Morrissey Hall 
Get out there and back the football team 
Dear Editor: 

Having a son at Notre Dame has made me a pompously proud parent. So, I am taking the liberty ofmaking a suggestion to the students. 
Let us pray that the only disappointment in the students' present lives is the tough season the tootball team is having. 
'!be students were behind the football team 
when it was winning. It is more important for 
Editorial Board 
EdltOr·ln·Chtef. . . Bob Vonderheide Managmg Ed1tor . . Mark Worscheh News Ed1tor . . Sarah Ham1lton News Ed1tor . Dan McCullough Sa1nt Mary's Edttor .. Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor. Michael Sullivan Vtewpotnt Edttor .. . Dave Grote Features Ed1tor. . Mary Healy Photo Edttor. . Pete Laches 

the students to be bc·hind them now, though. The players are still the same people. lbc staff is still the same staff. Shouldn't the students, proud of Notre Dame, show a more mature attitude by getting out there and hacking the football team? 
Let's sec banners and school spirit for the team in the remaining games so that the na­tions' news may reflect that attitude! 
Mrs. N.j. Sangster Anthony, N.M. 
Protecting God's most precious gift -life 
Dear Editor: 
Is there anyway we can justify the killing of innocent. defenseless children in their mot­hers' wombs? Apparently, many people in our dear land say they can, in good conscience, make that justification! 'Ihe currt·nt death toll by the crime of abortion is five thousand per day and, from all indications, the numbers will steadily increase. 
When will this despicable blood bath against our young cease? Soon, we pray to God but, in reality, it doesn't appear that our human family is ready to stand up and protect God's most precious gift, the gift of life. Per­haps our church leaders will begin to realize how serious this vicious crime has become, and begin to speak out in a more compas­sionate way to the evil that is literally tearing our country apart. 
If our church leaders become complacent, apathetic and unconcerned to this uime, then it is only natural that its flock will also adopt that attitude. God made this very dear in proverb 24:11.12: "Rescue thost· who arc led to the slaughter. Do not stand hack and let them die. For the God who knows all hearts, knows yours and knows you knew. He will reward you according to what you haVl· done." 'Ihese are God's words; hopefully we will all hear them. 
Bernard Kternan,Jr. Coytesr•tlle, Newjc'1'sey 
Department Managers 
Business Manager.  . .. Dave Ta1clet  
Controller  . Mar1pat Horne  
Advertising Manager.  . Anne Culligan  
Clfculation Manager.  Jeff O'Neill  
Systems Manager.  Kev111 Williams  
Production Manager.  Chris Bowler  

Project Manager . . ........ Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
I 
Sports Briefs 
Student basketball ticket applications should 
have arrived in the mail this week. Any student who has not received 
an application by today should contact the ticket office at the ACC. 
Applications and payment will be collected next week according to 
the following schedule: seniors, Monday; juniors and students in 
their ninth semester or higher, Tuesday; sophomores, grad and law 
students, Wednesday; freshmen, Thursday. Distribution will be from 
3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day. -The Observer 

The ND basketball teams, both the men's and 
women's, will be having intrasquad games on Sunday, Nov. 11 in the ACC. The women's game will begin at 6:30 p.m., and the men will follow at approximately 7:30p.m. Student tickets are on sale now for $1 at gate 10 ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will be 
meeting for a scrimmage this Sunday, Nov. 4, at 1 p.m. on Cartier Field. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame crew team will be meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Officers and coaches will be meeting at 7 p.m. in the New Orleans Room. -The Observer 
The men's novice crew teamwill be meeting 
tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. -The Observer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will be having its third annual bench press meet on Saturday, Nov. 10, at l p.m. in the third-floor weight room in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone, including varsity athletes, who is interested may sign up in the weight room at the Rock or the ACC. An entrance fee of $2 will be charged to pay for awards. -The Observer 
Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 10 
A nutritional program seminarwill be held this Sunday, Nov. 4, at 2 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre by the Notre Dame Weightlifting Club. All are welcome to attend the semi­nar, which will be conducted by the Shakley Corporation ofIllinois.­The Observer 
Stepan Center court time may be reserved by 
any interested club or organization. Representatives should request times in the Student Activities Office on the first floor of LaFortune by tomorrow. -The Observer 
Club andinterhall basketballentries are due 
by Wednesday, Nov. 7. Rosters and proof of insurance should be submitted to the NVA office. Complete entry rules are available at the office. -The Observer 
Interhall hockey entries are due at the NVA of­
fice on Wednesday, Nov. 7. Complete entry rules are available at the office. -The Observer 
A one-on-one basketball tournament is being 
sponsored by NVA. The tournament will have two divisions for men: those over six feet tall, and those shorter than six feet. Double elimi­nation will be in effect after the second round. The registration deadline at the NVA office is Friday, Nov. 9.-The Observer 
Squash and table tennis tournaments are being sponsored by NVA. Both tournaments are open to all students, fac­ulty and staff. The registration deadline is Wednesaday, Nov. 7.-The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 14 

NUL Standings 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams DhUJon 
W  L  T  GF  GAPts.  
Momreal  6  l  1  34  1'5  13  
Hardord  6  4  I  46  4l  13  
Boston  5  4  0  34  34  10  
Bufb.lo  '5  4  I  41  40  II  
Quebec  4  6  I  41  44  9  
Patrick Div isio n  
PhJiaddphia  6  l  2  4"'1  l'5  ....  
NY lslandcn.  6  3  0  '50  46  ll  
Pittsburgh  '5  4  0  .\4  3'5  10  
Washington  3  3  2  31  31  8  
NY Rangcn.  4  4  I  41  3':"  9  
Ne-w jersey  3  6  0  34  4'5  6  

CUIIENCE CAMPBEll CONFERENCE Sruytbc o.tslon 
WLTGFGAPts Edmonton 8 0 ]. 60 l'!i 18 Calgary 7 -~ 0 '56 -~9 14 
Wlnncpeg 3 3 I 19 19 Lo..o;Angelo 2 6 3 39 '50 Vancouver I 10 0 40 67 
Norrl5 Dt.ialoo ChJugo ~ -4 I 49 43 II St.louis 
"' '5 0 34 37 8 Toronto 3 6 I 30 43 7 lktroh 36036446 Minnesota 26129:\8'5 
Last Nlgbt's Re1rults 
PitL.,burgh 7, New jersey 6 Philadelphia 3, Butl:alo 3 ( OT) Quebec '5, Hartford 3 Washington 4, calgary 3 ( OT) St. Loul56, Toromo "i(OT) 
Los Angtle~ 10, Vancouver .i 
TonJgbt'" Games Quebec at Bol>ton NY hlander~ at Mom real Wlnnepeg at Philadelphiu CaJgar'} at Detroit 
In thl~ year'1o NHI. pl;~rotJformat, the top four tl·am!> in each divhilon make the pla}'offi., re~rdles~ of nvenll league !'itanding 
SOberingAdvice .. 
cansavealife;;(.v-
Thlnk Before You Drink ~· ~ Before You Drive 
-
The Oh.<er1•er Notre Dame office. located on tht· third tloor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts cla~sifkd advcrti,ing from') a.m. until -1 p.m...\londay through friday. The Obsen•er Saint :1-lary·s olfin·. located on the third floor of Haggar Collegt· Center. accepts classifkds from 12:.'0 p m. until ~ p.m .. ~·ton­day though Friday Deadline for next-dav dassilkds is _, p.m. All classificds must he prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Chargt· is I 0 tent> per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters er day. 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPING 2IT-8534 after 5:30 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
TYPING Jackie Boggs 684-8793 
EXPERT TYPING 2IT-8534 after 5:30 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
TYPING SERVICE 
ffl-1045 
PICKUP AND DEUVERY 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-1117 
Students intereeted in receiving the com­puting newsletter 
Bytellne should call Betty Praklet at 239-5934 to get on the mailing list. 
St. Gov't Lobby Commiaaion reminds you: MAIL YOUR ABSENTEE BALLOT THIS WEEK 
VOTE ON TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 6. 
COME JOIN THE ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE as they discuss the topic of single issue voting with Prof. Ralph Mcinerny this Thurs. night at 9:00 in the Little Theater of LaFortune. We need you now more than ever! 
.............................................. 
Hey 1111 you production 111M! people, th-Ia • 11111ndlltory deelgn maatlng on Tua.c~ay, November e at &:30. It ahould ba • _. fun time. ao I aura hope you C8n ..,.kaiL .. or ...., 
PRO-TYPE Over 14 yrs. of experience. Computerized service. Disaertationa, law papers, student papers 277-5833. 
lOST/F~UND I 
LOST! LOST! LOST! 16.. GOLD HERRING-BONE NECKLACE EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE! REWARD IF FOUND CAllt647 PLEASE! 
............................................ 
Still Loet-A black jacket with ..South Side ltalien.. written on back and ··eame.. writ­ten on front.Piease return--l'm cold!!Call Carrie 284-5172 
PITI BUS RIDERS: I left a Gimbel's shop­ping bag with a birthday present and some albums (they can ba identified by their skips) on the bus when I got off at SMC. II you happened to take it with you, please call Stephanie at 284-5526. Thanks. 

LOST: A TAN. WHITE. AND OLIVE JACKET. HAD A FEW TOO MANY IM­PORTS AT CORBY·s AND LEFT IT THERE THURS.,OCT.tt. IT MEANS ALOT TO ME! PLEASE CALl JIM AT 
3444111 ................................................................ 
FOR RENT 
ROOMMATE WANTED FOR MALE STUDENT. $135 MONTH INCLUDES UTILITIES. 705 RIVERSIDE DR. 289­1605 
................................................................ 
WANTED 
NEEDEDII! Part-time retail sales person­nel for CORNERSTONE. Seeking warm, gregarious individuals who enjoy selling lamlly active-wear. Hourly wage $4.00. Apply in person at Buyer·s Marketplace, 5901 North Grape Rd. 
WANTED IMMEDIATELY: A crazy, fun­loving Guitar Player for Youth Camping Club/ A volunteer willing to play guitar and lead camp songs for a church sponsored group of campers 9-15 yrs. old. Trips are approximately one weekend/month to nearby camps. Travel expenses paid. Contact: Bill Staunton Crusoe Adventure Camps 2344-1992 (evenings) Sponsored by Little Flower Church (1/2 mile East of Notre Dame) 
SKI ASPEN FREE! NO coordinator needed for student trip to Aspen. Free trip fl substantial commissions. Phone collect 
todey 215-387-4955 evenings. 
NEED RIDE TO MIAMI U this weekend maybe rentecar call Bob 277-0911 
WANTED-DEAD OR AUVE Flva Daelgn EdiUW. and !Iva ...latanta to 1h-up at tha Tulldlly production maatlng at 11:30. 
FOR SALE 
TRUCKLOAD PLANT SALE TROPICAL PLANTS WHOLESALE PRICES WHILE THEY LAST GOVERNMENT IN­SPECTED 30 VARIETIES $6 TO $35 KENSINGTON FAITH CENTER 5911 YORK ROAD SOUTH BEND 291-9393 9AM-7PM FUND RAISER TO SEND YOUTH TO CAMP AND FOR BUILDING PROJECT 
FOR SALE:2 USC TIX Carrie 284-5172 
TICKETS 
NEED 2 Penn State G.A. ·a. Call3537!! 
PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 
HEYII You don't-nn.a -th-guya play Pann S-11 don't elth•· but my lrtand from PSU -nta to gloet... So Mil ma your STUDENT nCKET to PSU n-. You'lllaal ball• lor II. c.ll Keith 
3345. 
Boy do I need Penn Stare GA'sl! Yesiree, 4 of 'em. If you can make my day call Stan at 2452. Make this Pennsylvania boy happy. 
DEAR DOMERS: I need 4 PENN STATE GA·s. CALl JOE 1933. PLEAAASEII 
HELP! I NEED 4 PENN GAs ...CALL SUE 38432 
Need lots of tickets to Penn State 
SELL them to me! 
Call 3811 for an offer. Don't start talking 
about bowl games yet. 
2 NAVY GA'S 4 SALE. PAUL 2119 
Need Penn State tix-Student or G.A. Call Fran2598 
.................................................. 
Need Penn State G.A. tix to help Frank and Judy (My mom and dad) celebrate their anniversary. Call Maria 4174 
WE SELL SEX I & next best thing: 4-40 yd PSU tix. Best offer. 284-5119. 
I'm out here naked for PENN STATE GA's $$$$$$$$ call JOE AT 3554 
WANTED: 2 Penn State Tix Will pay! Call MICHELLE 2674 
Desperately need 1 Stud.Tix for Penn State Game!'Piease call Sue 4366SMC 
.......................... 
Naad two atudanttlckata for tha PENN 
STATE. If you C8n help p._call O.n 
at 1740. 
need Penn State tickets call Jim 277-3616 
PERSONALS 
I 
HEY SMC SOPHS GHOSTBUSTERS costume S.Y.R. is this SAT. Nov. 3 Get psyched and buy your tickets through your hall reps this week. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIOU,OR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SAFE TO THRASH II! 
NEED nCKETS to Penn State. Parents want to see first NO lootball game. Hey, they're my parents, what can I say. Please sell me 2 GAs, or I am in the dog's house. Call Maureen at1333. 
Join the Anne Club. Go to an expen­sive SYR, spend two hours in the bath­room, .and then bag your date before midnight. Hey. Anne, how was that par!y at Stanlord, anyway? 
THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A MA­TURE RESPONSE 
MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK 
I AM THE ONE AND ONLY TESS BABYI 
ooooooooooh my, it's that guy!!!! 
I know that this sounds strange, and I probably should have spoken up sooner, but I feel silly about the whole thing. Anyway, wll11! heppened was I went to Farley's SYR a couple of weeks ago. and somehow came back with two different sized shoes. So, if you were being wild In rm 233 and are now missing a size 1o-c 
brown loafer. give me a call at 1504. Of course, no names will ba revealed. we must retain our prida (even though we ·can·t hang onto anything else.) 
Mr. Paco Rabanne. Thanks for modeling your towel. Why did you leave so early this morning? Co-pilot 
262 Dillon: We hear its ..SWEDEN OR BUST!.. 
Happy Birthday Joa Arnold from the gi~ who always remembers your birthday. 
Wa w.e rtppad off altha World' a Falrl H-'bout y'all? 
You don't have to prove ANYTHING 
Let's really try to work this thing out 
-Ther-baby 
Michigan Recap 
R&R 
Next year's looseleaf; fingerpainting -the debate continues; swingin' from the out­house door; the salt-lick; mix master; no men!; that's some cigar; lowering alcohol levels; dune buggy mammas; we lound the river!; a poison ivy pitstop; fast & furious; quietly quick; TP & Word Yahtzee; but noon is early; domestics; it's raining again ... ; ..but people like me bat­ter!.. ; we need a vacation ... 
SHINE-ROSES ARE RED,VIOLETS ARE BLUE,BUT GOD DID EVEN BET­TER,MAKING A GREAT FRIEND LIKE YOU.HAPPY 21ST!LIVE IT UP KIDDO!(OR DO I CALL YOU SIR NOW?) 
Ma'am. I clocked you goin' 77 in a 55 zone. But officer, she was going 85!! 
McNIIIIa-I've been trying to get ahold of you for days but your line is always busy. I finally saw you the other day and I almost didn't recognize you. (You weren't wearing khaki.) Guess its about time to teach you how to drive a stick shift -its only 28 miles to Ashland! 
St. Gov't. Lobby Commission reminds you: MAIL YOUR ABSENTEE BALLOT THIS WEEK 

NOTRE DAME HOCKEY This Friday and Saturday at the Ice Rink against Penn State. Suppott your local hockey team to victory! Studants FREEIIIIIII 
URBAN PLUNGEIII 
URBAN PLUNGEIII 
URBAN PLUNGEIII 
REMINDER ORIENTAnON WORKSHOP THIS SUNDAY FROM 
1:30 TO 3:30 IN THE UBRARY AUDITORIUM. BRING YOUR LEARM­ING AGREEMENTS AND FIVE DOL­LARS. 
P.S.-BRING SOMETHING TO WAITE 
WITHIll 
Speaker!-I want this beer soooooo bad, but if I drink it I'll get fat. Speaker2-Weill guess you·11 just have to .... SHOO THE DELICACY!!! 
Bob, It's nice to see that you finally got your pants fixed. 
Space, 
Heard you're sunburnt in some sensitive areas. Stop peeling off what you don·t have! 
ROCk, Oh my! How does it feel lo be married lo three women at the same time? Oh yes! 
URBAN PLUNGE!!! 
URBAN PLUNOEIII 
URBAN PLUNGEIII 
FIND OUT WHERE YOU ARE GOING FOR THE PLUNGE Ill 
GO TO THE ORIENTAnON WORKSHOP THIS SUNDAY FROM 
1:30 TO 3:30 IN THE UBRARY AUDITORIUM. BRING $5, YOUR LEARNING AGREEMENT, AND A PEN. 
Rock, Next time you'll have to toedance to get your shorts, because I'm a princess. 
..Honey, We clocked you at81 ina 55 mile zone. What's ya hurry? .. ..Just trying to get home to Indiana, offi­
cer." 
...................... CTHULHU SAVES!!! 
ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC DORM RECRUITING THIS WEEK AND NEXT!!!!! SEE YOUR DORM REP. ON HOW YOU CAN APPLY FOR 3 AND 2 YEAR ROTC SCHOLAR­SHIPS. 
..................................... 
Please idantiry yourselves so that we can share some SAMBUCA with you. Love, THE SAMBUCA LOVERS OF NOTRE DAME P.S. A clue to our identity: We Jive premiere gi~s· dorm on South Quad 
MAKE mE GRADEl 
MAKE THE GRADEl 
MAKE mE GRADEl 
LAURIE LUREL Get Out! 
L.T.T. Let's talk about victim·s rights. You don't have to apologize for what you did. 
1naada Pann Statudanttlckat, r...... 
Call Mary Ellen 81211412. 
(It wiN probably rain anyway) 
PALOS-LAND OF MARGI, MEHAGRE. AND THE FALLING .FRIG!! 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8-ttpm FA-SA 8pm-1 am 
ATIENTION ALL DESIGN EDITORS A:•D ASSISTANTS Th-Ia a lllllndll­lory production department maatlng on Tu-y, Noll. II at 6:30. You muat bath-. and that" a ath-11 
..............................................................., 
VIETNAM II THE SEQUEL 
COMING IN JANUARY TO A CENTRAL AMERICAN THEATER NEAR YOU Produced by: Ronald AI8QIIn Directed by: The lntelllgenca Community Star­ring: Your Brother, Your Boyfrtand, Yourllllf Stop the Invasion. Vote Mondale/Ferraro. 
To the other perfect person­Sure you're perfect· for me! Even if you weren't perfect, 
I'd like you just the way you are. 
~~Pete 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JFK LET'S CELEBRATE! 
It's Lisa Nakfoor's 1Bth'Scott sends his love.Love Sherry & Sally 
Lionel Richie ··can't Slow Down· and nei­ther can Steve!Happy Birthday' 
WAKE ME UP BEFORE YOU Go­GO ... to tha Progi'M81ve Muale CHANCE TO DANCE. Thla SATURDAY In tha Chautauqua Ballroom (that'a aeeond floor L.alortuna, dummy), alllrt­lng at 9 p.m. Move your !Milo tha roek­lngaat baa! around. PMC member• frea, uener-J public $1-BUT HEY! Firat 50 altha door araln free. Willard uye, "Bath-. IChlapp.' 
SPLOGEDNESS ABOUNDS SPLOGEDNESS ABOUNDS SPLOGEDNESS ABOUNDS 
Need riders lo Cleveland leaving 11/2. Call Sean 277-3953. 

The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 11 

Com put PrLand now makt•s a\uilablt• to t'VE'ry st Udl:'tll thE' advantages to assist you, a complt>te SE'rvice dt-part mE'nt, a \'<idE' varil:'ty of corn­fl[ your own pPrsonal cornputt•r. Through a special financing pro­putl'r classes and a hot line for use when you have quest ions about gram caiiPd "CornputE>rLittE'" wt~ can now offer four compiE'tt• sys­your system. And remember, your satisfaction is guaranteed because tPtns spPl'ilkally dt•sigrwcl for stuth·nts by our staff. ComputerLand is part of the world's largest computer rE'tail chain 
At Computt-rLand you will find .t professional and friendly staff mth ovE'r 700 storE's worldmde. 
The ComputerLand STUDENT STARTER SYSTEMS 


The ComputerLand GRAD STUDENT SYSTEMS 
r------------------,The advanced features of thE' IBM PC are exactly what you'd exp_ect fro!D IBM Either for _superb. And our system ts specifically }' 1 designed for graduate students or those as Itt e as who spend many hours in paper writing $ 

or computer programming. It's com­
IBM PC 
plete with two double sided, double density disk drives, monitor, printer, an extremely powerful and flexible word processing program, and all necessary 

~==================:cables and connectors. 

It's the portable computer with its own built-in, nine-inch diagonal screen. It delivers all the advantages ofportability,
Compaq without trading off any computing power capability The system is com­

plete (like the IBM) mth two double a month* sided, double density disk drives, printer, word processing software and all cables and cbrmectors. 
Portable 

'----------------------' *ThP anu,unt may lw gn•a!t•r dut•lu Ill\\' t>XL'illll,l( hahuu·•• 111 Y''ur(:,,III!JIIIt•rLII\1' ut·,·t•Unt 
A special note: Enhance your system with a 
\\1u•n Wt' say your systl'm is "compiPte" we mean telephone MODEM just that. lndudPd arP diskettes, paper, ribbons, a Enhance your system with a Modem that disk stomgP box, a pnwPr line ftltE'r (to protPct your allows you to tap into a local computer and your valuablP data from damagP due computer system or area to li~htning and otlwr disturbances to thP flow of and national bulletin 
l'll'ctrieity) and, most important, an introductory boards. Yours for dass in how to usr ,vour system. Also inrluded is just $10 a month. complPte assPmbly, installation and testing of your systt•rn so all you havr to do is takP it home and plug it in. 
Computeri.Gnd· 
Apple lie 
IBM 
PCjr. 
Flexible, capablE', portalJ!t:', hen• is a 

Either for
complE'!e system that can work with a huge st:'lection of programs and ac­as little as 
cessories to enhance the way you IParn, work and play Included in this system are the computer, monitor, the Apple Scribe printer,p/s: ll'rilf' word process­ing softmrt:' for writing papers and all the necessary cables and cormectors. 
The most respected name in personal computers, the IBM PC jr. is truly a tool for modern times. From its cordless keyboard that frees you to move around and get comfortable, the "Junior" is de­signed to be easy to operate. This sys­


tem also is complete with monitor, printer,pf.~: tt•rile word processing soft­a month* warP and all necessary cablPs and connectors. 
, Kinl Across from . ( )
Mishawaka 719 w. Me ey • (219) 256-5688 Town & ("nuntry Shopping l"entr<• Elkhart Easy Shoppmg Place • 219 295-2299 
Monday thr<l ~'riday tO to ti. Thursday to tl, Saturday 10 to 4 Monday thru Friday 10 to 6, Thursday tn·tl, Saturday 10 to 4 Stop in anytime or call for an appointment to discuss which system is best for you. 
------~~--~-­
The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 12 
Scores 28 points 

Blackman lifts Dallas over Pacers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS -Rolando Black­man scored a game-high 28 points, including the game winning basket on a 10-foot jump shot with 16 seconds remaining, as the Dallas Mavericks beat the Indiana Pacers 1 0 1-1 00 in National Basketball Asso­ciation play last night. 
The Pacers scored 10 straight points to tie the game at 95-95 on a free throw by rookie Vern Fleming with 2:52 left in the game. Steve Stipanovich, who led Indiana with 
19 points, had two three-point plays during the surge. 

Stipanovich hit two free throws to give the Pacers a 100-99 lead with 25 seconds remaining before Black­man hit his game-winning shot. 
The Pacers had two opportunities to take the lead after Blackman's bas­ket, but Jim Thomas missed a shot with six seconds left and jerry Sicht­ing couldn't get a shot off after Indiana threw the ball inbounds with two seconds left. 
Indiana, paced by Fleming's eight first-quarter points, held a 25-24 lead after one period, but Dallas grabbed a 5 3-4 7 halftime lead after outscoring the Pacers 13-2 in the final 2:25 of the half. Blackman 
Russian coaches want 1988 Olympics moved 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Two Soviet coaches have suggested that the 1988 Sum­mer Olympics, scheduled to be held in South Korean capital of Seoul, should be moved to another loca­tion in Europe. 
Writing in the government news­paper Izvestia, handball coach Anatoly Yevtushenko said yesterday that Olympic officials should take "concrete, wise steps" to preserve the ideals ofthe Games. 
His suggestions echoed an article by national wrestling coach Ivan Yarygin published Tuesday in the sports daily Sovietsky Sport. 
"The fate of the world Olympic movement now is of great concern to the public. That is why it is impor­tant today to speak aloud of what is threatening the Olympic Games," Yevtushenko said. "The time has come to take concrete, wise steps for the preservation of the Olympic ideals on earth." 
Yevtushenko said the choice of Seoul for the 1988 Games was made in a "secret vote" at a September 1981 Olympics meeting in Baden­Baden, West Germany. 

He said he was present at the meeting and that even then the choice of Seoul appeared to many coaches and other sports officials as "arguable." 
"Who can guarantee that these Games would not be made into poli­tical games?" Yevtushenko asked. "It may also happen that the Olympic flag which depicts the bright ideals ofpeace and friendship will go from the frying pan of Los Angeles to the fire ofSeoul." 
The Soviet Union boycotted the Los Angeles Olympics after a prolonged press campaign com­plaining of threats to Soviet athletes and overcommercialism. 
The decision caused speculation about Soviet participation in Seoul. Moscow does not maintain diplomatic relations with South Korea and backs the communist government in North Korea. 

EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'IWlE EVEilY ZHOURS EVDY DAY 
United Limo 
~ 
!0844 McK•nley Hwv O;ceola 
674-6993 .,,i 255.. 3068 '
··1111'11 
o• tail vour Travel ~genl 1:;11111 
~IIUUI 
lltfllr' 
~.. 1 I~IUIIIIIHII 
I 
w~ ..~ IIIII IIIIIIDIII
I' 
rr '.' • 'IIIN mmnnl

IWIIIIilll\\.\1\lilt: •. ( Jll!lllllllllllllr.lhHIIIIII111111 II
~ 


scored nine of the 13 points in the rally. 
The Pacers trailed by as many as 18 points, 74-56, in the third quar­ter, but closed to within eight, 80­72, at the end ofthe period. 
Jay Vincent had 27 points and 17 rebounds for Dallas, which beat Indiana for the fifth consecutive time. Mark Aguirre scored 20 points for the Mavericks, now 2-2 on the season. 
Fleming finished with 16 points, Thomas had 1 5 and Sichting scored 14 for the Pacers, 0-2. Indiana for­ward Herb Williams added 14 points and grabbed 17 rebounds. 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference Atlandc Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Philadelphia  3  0  1.000  
Boston  2  0  1.000  
Wa.o;hington  3  I  .750  .5  
New York  .500  1.5  
New jersey  .250  2.5  
Central Division  
Chicago  3  I  .750  
.\1Uwaukee  .667  .5  
Atlanta  .333  1.5  
Detroit  I  .333  1.5  
Indiana  0  .0  1.5  
Cleveland  0  .0  2.5  
Western Conference  
Midwest Division  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Houston  0  1.000  
San Antonio  0  1.000  
Dallas  .667  .5  
Denver  .500  I  
Utah  I  .333  1.5  
Kan:~as City  0  2  .0  
Paclftc Division  
Phoenix  3  0  1.000  
Portland  0  1.000  .5  
L.A. Clippers  .500  1.5  
L.A. Lakers  .333  
Seattle  .333  
Golden State  0  .0  

Laot Nlgbt"s Results Boston 116, Newjersey 105 Dallas lOt, Indiana 100 Milwaukee I 05, Washington 79 


The rip-roaring comedy show that will knockyou outofyour seat! 
· · ·Second City' is brilliant.·· 
-TIM.E M.AGAZINE 

··Subtly& Superbly funny!·· 
-NEw YORK POST 
COMING TO NOTRE DAME· Nov. 10,8 p.m., Washington Hall TICKETS available at SAB Record Store· $5.00 
The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 13 
ND women's soccer club hopes to gain varsity status 
By MARlY BURNS 
.\ports Writer 
On Friday, October 19, the Notre Damt· Women's Socn~r team was scht·duled to play host to Spring Ar­bor College in ND's season finale. Unfonunatcly, due to a lack of available players, Spring Arbor was forn·d to cancel at the last moment. Thus a distinctive season ended on an unpleasant note, much to the dis­appointment of the talented fifteen­woman Irish squad. 
Disappointments such as this were, however, the exception this year for the Irish. Coach Phoebe Hofman's team racked up an impres­sivt: 8-2-1 record in the 1984 cam­paign, including two victories over rival St. Mary's. Adding to this ac­complishment is the fact that the im­pressive record was performed with several players new to the team this year as freshmen. 
In fact, things looked question­able at the beginning of the season for Hofman. Her 1983 lineup had been decimated by the graduation of several players and she desperately needed a talented crop of freshman to make things work successfully. Her hopes were fulfilled with the ar­rival of fullback Clare Gschwind, leading scorer Kate Titterton, Karen Logsdon, and halfback Teresa Shep­pard. 
"It went very well," says Hofman of the '84 season. "The four starting. freshmen really helped us." 
Freshman Clare Gschwind played an integral role for the team as a de­fensive specialist. Her teammates on the defense, co-captains Nancy Hoodecheck and Lyndy Webster, and club vice president Karen Moritz, along with senior goalkeeper Sue Lupo, frustrated the opposition by allowing only 16 goals in deven games. 
lbe offensive attack, meanwhile, collected 32 goals behind the front line offreshmen Titterton, Logsd~m. and junior Clare Welsh. Hofman ex­pects great things in the future from all three, particularly Titterton. 
"Any time she gets the ball, she's a threat to score," says Hofman of Tit­tenon. 
Next year, Hofman plans to have her entire offense back together and expectations will be even higher. 
Although there was not much op­portunity for disappointment this season, there were a few other let­downs beside the forfeit of the Spring Arbor game. lbe biggest of these was a I-I tie with a Purdue club team that the Irish players ap­parently felt they could handle. The two losses for the team also hurt, as they dropped games to overpower· ing Indiana University and Mar­quette clubs. 

The only other disappointment for the women has been the team's seemingly frozt:n status as a club sport. Many of the players feel that the available talent pool on campus would grow, and that the dedication of the players would be greater if they were elevated to a varsity sport. 
"Ever since my freshman year we've talked about being a varsity sport," says Webster. 

But as tt:ammate Karen Moritz notes, "Most of the other collt:ges in the midwest art: club sports like us." 
'Ibere is hope, though, for the younger members of the team. 'Ibe women's soccer program is only three years old and if it continues to make strides in improvement, it would certainly mt:rit consideration for varsity status. 
As for 198S, it is tough to improve on eight wins in eleven games, espe­cially when the team will be without some key players. 
"We're losing three outstanding players we rely on in Nancy Hoodec­heck, Lyndy Webster, and Sue Lupo," says Hofman. "Hopefully we'll get some more good freshmen. If we do, we should only get better and better." 
To keep in shape for next season, and to get some more experience, the team will begin playing indoor soccer over the winter months. 1bc Irish will play their games in Turner's Indoor Soccer League at the Turner Sports facility in South Bend. 
~~~­
.§mw §~(G)lflt~ 
[JJrulimlili;<S;d\~ lll.ll\~c 
Skydiving instruction and Paraplane Flight instruction 
219-586-3580 B..tne•• 219·586-2663 Hoooe 
***************** 
~  ~  
~  M lAM I JEW'B..RY  ~  
:  1906Miami S..  :  
:  TOPPRICE  :  
~  RINGS*DIAMONDS  :  
il  GOLD*SILVER  _.  
il  WATCHES  ~  
~  ~  
:  Buy ­Sell -Exchange  :  
~  OPENMONDAY-SATURDA¥9-6  ..  
:  289-6440  t  

***************** 
TYPING Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing Call Chris at: 234-8997  

THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE Presents 
PROF. MORTON S. FUCHS 
Chairman of the Biology and Microbiology Dept s. 
DISTJNOUJSHIID 
LIICTURII 
SIIRJRS 


NOV. 6 AT 8:00PM LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
I I 
I _j 

The Observer Thursday, November 1, 1984 -page 14 
Sports staff meeting 
There will be a mandatory meeting of all mem­bers of the Observer sports staff on Tuesday, No­vember 6, at 6:30 p.m. in the Observer office. Anyone who would like to write sports for the rest of the year must attend. If, for some very good rea­son, you cannot make the meeting, contact Mike Sullivan by Monday afternoon. The coverage of winter sports will be discussed as well as improve­ments in the current coverage. 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 

The NVA "Turkey Shoot" will be held Nov. 13 
and 15. The team target-shooting competition is open to teams of two men and two women each. Equipment and supervision will be provided. The deadline to reserve a time at the NVA office is Friday, Nov. 9. -The Observer 
Basketball and hockey officials are needed 
for the interhall season. Anyone interested should apply at the NVA office. -The Observer 
"F"tness F a monthly newsletter published by
1 ocus," 

Non-Varsity Athletics, is now available. To place your name on the mailing list, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
NVA's Century Club is a program of exercise and fitness in which participants set their own exercise goals. For more information, contact the NVA office. -The Observer 
•
• Reg.
e or 
• 
Light 

• 
CASE 24 BOTILES 



BUILD YOUR SKIUS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 

Test-N-Tape Library 
Reinforcement Test 
Homestudy Packet 
Classes starting NOW! 
I I 

1117 E. South Bend Ave. 
Barclay's Meat and Produce and Mr. D's Canning Factory
• 
celebrate with ... 

SWEENEY TODD • 
with your ticket stub you may get ... 
BARCLAY's: FREE Salad Bar with dinner PLUS 10% OFF any entree Mr. D's: Before play-75' Drafts and Drinks 
After play-$1 Bloody Mary's and Drinks 75' Drafts 
November 1, 2, 3 and 4-See You There! 

Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Spain. 
Choose from 60 voyage-related courses to earn 12-15 transferable hours of credit from the University of Pittsburgh. Develop an awareness of our relationship with other countries and a first-hand understanding of world issues. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. 
For details, write or call: 

777 (800) 854-0195
SEMESTER AT SEA 


toO-free 
Institute for Shipboard Education University of Pittsburgh 2E Forbes Quadrangle • Pittsburgh, PA 15260 
Scannell 
continuedfrom page 16 
company have been doing well lately on the front line. In the last two Irish outings, the offense has produced 785 yards -almost half of it being generated by the running game. It appears as though the Irish may really be back on track. 
"There are a variety of reasons why our offense wasn't producing at firSt," says Scannell. "But now we have it going, and I don't think there is any reason to look back. It took a lot to keep our-selves motivated and get up for a practice after a loss. But we have matured from the 11dversity. We just have to keep building from here." 
. . 
~,
~~~--~] 
..... 
~
• 
Reg. or Light 
CASE 24 CANS 
• 
• 
•
0 
•
0 
• 

"We're scaring away high prices!( With our HALLOWEEN SPECIALS!" 
PRICES GOOD THRU 11-3-S4
• 
6502 GRAPE RD. 200 N. MAIN 254 DIXIEWAY NORTH 1910 LJNCOLNWAY EAST 1621 SO BE:NO AVE MISHAWAKA ELKHART ROSElAND SO. BEND SO. BEt~D 
2777176 295-6310 272-2522 233-8430 233-4603 
Budweiser  
 Budweiser  
1/2bbl  Quarts  
Michelob  $3699  Old Milwaukee  
1/2bbl  lf2bbl  
Coming soon-Little Kings lj2bbl's  


-------------~-------­
T0 day_____________________
Th_u_r.sd_a_y_,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_1_,_1_9_8_4__p_a_g_e_1_5 
Doonesbury 
BUT I fJOftr THINKA PflESI/EfT MANY MAIMILXJ5/UIC/e5 
YOU KJJW, THtll£ All& 50 

5HaJLP F3YB?.HAVC 7lJ /IX)/(0~ C1Jfrl!IJ6 01/T rY THIS AJ)IrliN­
H/5 9KJ(JI.J1B(, ALIA/A'IS UJ(JIIJ&R.­ji5Tf?lmON, IT'S JU5TAJOY 
ING IF H/5 VICE Pf<t51{)£NT : 70 SERI/5 7HI5 HAS A MINO Of 
• PRESilJe.ITI HI50IAIN. 
/ / 
Tank McNamara 
Garry Trudeau 
IT IS THUS AGREATH~ Fal. W 70 %N THIS OOCiJMENT P/AONGMYMANHW IN A 8L.IN(J TRIJ§T, TO 8C A(JMIN­!STEREO BY OW MMIL-Y fi?JeJ(J5l 
/ et/CK1 CJ.IC/C. 1 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

The Far Side Gary Larson 



Campus 
•AU 
Day-MockElecdon, LaFortune, Sponsored by College Republicans & College Democrat~. 

•12:30-3:30p.m.-Blood 
Drive, Student Health Center (Infirmary). 

• 
3:30-5 p.m. -Career Workshop, "DecidingOn A Career," For Sophomores, Juniors & Seniors, Joan Mcintosh, Career Counselor, Career & Placement Services, Lower Level of Ubrary, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 

•4 
· 6p.m.-Kellogg Seminar, "State Capitalism & the Traditional Elites in Brazil," Frances Hagopian, MIT, I3I Declo HalL 

•4 
p.m. -RadJadon Laboratory Seminar, "Probing Unimolecular Reaction Dynamics by Laser Spectroscopy," Prof. Bradley Moore, UC­Berkeley, Conference Theatre Radiation Labora· 


tory. 
•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "New Synthetic Methods Based on Intramolecular Reactions," Prof. Robert Coates, U. of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, Room I23 Nieuwland. 

•7, 
9 & II p.m. -Film, "Carrie," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, JI. 

•7 
& 9:30 p.m. -Film, "When the Mountains Tremble" (Guatemala), Center for Social Con· cerns, Sponsored by Kellogg Company & SOLA, J2. 

•7:30-9 
p.m. -Debate, Paul Komyatte (Pres. of Young Democrats) vs. Tom Farnan (Representative of College Republicans), Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by The Election Task Force. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "Expressionism," Prof. Robert Leader, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Friend of the Snite Museum. 

•8 
p.m. -ND Student Union Players, "Sweeney Todd," O'Laughlin Hall, J5 at the door or J4 in ad­vance, Also II/2 & Il/3. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Solidarity & the Three Tradi­tions in Polish Patriotism," Prof. Andrzej Walicki, Galvin Life Science Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Aroundthe WorldProgram, Dances of India with Hema Rajagopalan, Little Theatre, J3 . 


.TV Tonight 
8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 28 Who's the Boss? 
9:00p.m. 16 Cheers 22 Simon & Simon 28 Glitter 34 Mystery 
9:30p.m. 16 Night Court 
10:00p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Masterpiece Theatre 

Bloom County 
14.fi.L HER€ I AM 
P61/IN f!fUN61Ur/II.LY 
RIPfCUI.OIJ5 ..• 
I 
I4.6.L I! 8/lf( 15 HARPI.Y 111€ /11051 fiPff{()ff?ftm ff.IICE f(}f( A ION€l.Y. StNSmvt:. 5/NaKf ~f(6()N 1V (t() UXJI<IN6 fOR (JIIIKJTY COIIIWJNIONSH/P. 
\ 
.. SUCKIN6 INTDX/CI!fff5 1/NP lfOf'fN6 fOil. A ume FeMAI.E COitlPfiNY. 
i 5tlllrf.l.~ 

I _-· 5lvtrfl: 
I . 
The Daily Crossword 
1 "-we forget" 34 "A woman­65 Dangerous 12 Mistake 
5 Bid dish for the game 16 Bone: pref. 10 Barbary-gods" 68 Askew In Brit. 18 Sea bird 13 Island off 36 Forever, old 69 Cads 19 Certain 
Alas. style 70 Regretted students 14 Wrathful 71 Aves. 24 Coeurd'­15 Roman despot 41 Marron 72 Valuable Item 28 Clamps 17 Game played 44 Cylindrical 73 Brisk 30 Down-at-heel 
with marbles and tapering 31 Alphabetic20 Christie's 45 Mack or Knight DOWN group
"Little Indians" 46 Abominate 1 Mllk:comb. 32 Unclose, 21 Lasso form to poets22 Parcel out 47 National 2 Clearsky 33 Deface 23 Periodical monogram 3 Smart 35 Take steps 
25 Part of Heyer­49 Harp's cousin 4 Wlnecask 37 Merman dahl's raft 51 Track of an 5 Fr. river 38 Genetic stuff animal 6 Capricious 39 Pecan 
26 Farm machinery 

55 Chessmaster 7 Ipso-40 Summer: Fr. man 57-Marbles 8 Frome and Allen 
27 Son of Jacob 42 Musician Jose 
61 Preakness 9 Female ruff 
29 Vane letters 43 Den of iniquity
winner 10 Leg joint
31 City of seven 62 Earthy color 11 Old Eng. 48 Makes uphills 64 Vane letters dramatist 50 Film spool 



51 Allgood or  58 Costume  
Teasdale 52 Stoppers  59 Between: pref. 60 Hard up  
53 Certain  63 Oxidize  
Caucasian  66 Exclamation  
54 Desert spots  67 Hesitation  
56 Farm areas  sounds  
© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc.  
All Rights Reserved  

I 
l 
l 
I 
l 
l 
I 
I i 
I 
I I 
1 
I 
J 
FRIDAY 
HORROR WEEK CONTINUES WITH 
HORROR MOVIES Bloody Marys 95e 
STEPHEN KING'S 

CARRIE 
THURSDAY MARGARITA VILLE 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00 Engineering Auditorium $1.00 Margaritas 95e Imports $1 This weekend· The Exorcist 

Thursday, November 1, 1984-page 16
S~orts 


Undefeated Pasquerilla East favored in women's football 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI Yuhi Accordin!! 10 ludd Yuhl but lost. ·,·hey also went to the finals Sports Writer an intelligent pl.t}t:r who know~ thl as sophomores but lost. We won it quarterr· l· position well last ye;;r. We know how to play and 
The women's interhall flag foot­"(YuhI) ,, tb• k11tll ..f prl rh;~ we kno~' how to win." ball regular season is over. and now really know' hn" (<' rl.·~ ~ay~Judd That experience will come in the real fun begins. The four teams "She even overrules are play calling handy as the rivalries between the with the best overall records, at the line sometimes." four top teams are intense and the Pasquerilla East (7-0 ), Farley ( 5-I ), Pasquerilla East is led on defense stakes are often high. Breen-Phillips ( 4-2), and Lewis (3-by captain Kim Zerry, who plays "We have a rivalry with the 3 ), will compete in the semifinals in middle linebacker. Judd feels that coaches of Breen-Phillips," says 
exactly one week Zerry is a strong leader and accor­Judd. "In our last game with Breen­Ofthe four teams, Pasquerilla East ding to the coach, "She's our Phillips we won a couple of kegs off is clearly the team to beat and for mainstay on defense." them. We'd like to meet them again
r 
good reason. They enter postseason Another standout on the team is in the finals." 
l ~ 
play having won their last I6 games defensive end Nancy Fitzpatrick. Of ForJudd to have that opportunity, in a row including last year's cham­Fitzpatrick, Judd simply says, "She's however, Pasquerilla East will first pionship. one ofthe best in the game." have to beat Lewis. Those teams 
Pasquerilla East is definitely ready Judd believes that his team, which square off on November 8 at 8 p.m. 
I 
for this year's playoffs to begin. Ac­hasn't lost since their first game last on Cartier field. Before that game, cording to head coach Jerry Judd, year, has an advantage in that they Breen-Phillips will play Farley at 7 the Knute Rockne of women's inter­have experience playing together. p.rri. The two semifinal winners will hall flag football, "All our girls are "Most of our players have been then meet in the championship pumped up." playing for four years," says Judd. game in Notre Dame Stadium on No-
It won't be easy for them to repeat "As freshmen they went to the finals . vember 18 at I p.m. last year's championship perfor­mance, however. 
"The talent has really increased 

Scannell's contribution 
from last year," says Judd. "All the 
teams are talented. All have individ· 
ual stars and all are well coached." 

aids Irish rushing game 
Judd, whose assistants include of­fensive coordinator Jack Seiler. By TRISH SULLIVAN Penn State and Joe Paterno. But defensive coordinator Mike Lane, Sports Writer there were some family loyalities to 
and specialty teams coach Paul South Bend as welL Scannell's father Sheridan, feels that coaching will ul­Coming off a victory that snapped earned three monograms at NO in 
timately decide which team comes a three game losing streak, the Fight­the late fifties and his grandfather
I I 
Th~ Obscrvrr/File Photo 

out victorious. ing Irish football team appears to be served as the chairman of the physi­
Dave Miles ( 14), third-leading goal scorer for the Notre Dame 
"In the long run it's going to come regaining its balance. One obvious cal education department for 40 
soccer team this season, bas bad to make some adjustments since 
down to which team is best coached improvement has been seen in the years.
returning to the team from a foreign studiesprogram. The versatile 
and best prepared," notesJudd. production of the offense. With "I had the toughest decision
juniorbas boosted the Irish with hisplay at midfield andforward. 
On offense, Pasquerilla East is led Notre Dame running primarily out anyone could have had," explains
Kevin Herbert gives a profile ofMiles in his story below. 
by quarterback and captain Jenny of the !-formation early in the ScannelL "I was heavily recruited by season, opposing teams' defenses Penn State, and my father is the vice
Irish scoring threat 

were able to key heavily on the Irish president of the schooL But we had a running game and force NO to go to family tradition at Notre Dame. I was the air. But the Irish staff has made really torn between the two. It was
Miles adjusts to help soccer team 
some adjustments and switched to a the combination of the academics single-back attack, using two, and and the football tradition that made
By KEVIN HERBERT have compiled a record of 11-6-2. be on soccer as the fall season winds occassionally three, tight ends. Yet me finally decide to come."
Sports Writer "I was happy to return to Notre down. Although the Irish did not fair 
none of these changes could be The Irish coaching staffbreathed a
Dame soccer," says Miles. "I appreci­as well as many had hoped they carried out effectively if the Irish did sigh of reliefwhen they realized thatDave Miles, a potent offensive gun ated the game a little more because would this year, Miles and the rest of not have the personnel to execute. they would have Scannell on theirfor the Notre Dame soccer team, has of the time off, however, I'm disap­the squad will have lofty aspirations One of the key players involved in side. Arriving on the campus in thefound the '84 season particularly dif­pointed with my performance this for I985. 
this execution is 6-4, 277-pound fall of '82, Scannell set his sights onficult. After an outstanding '82 year, I feel I could have played bet­Notre Dame's final soccer game of guard, Tim Scannell. possibly playing a backup p0sition.
season, in which he notched nine ter." the season will be played this after­Hailing from State College, Pa., But his contributions proved to be
goals and seven assists for a total of Although Miles played his fresh­noon at 4 p.m., on the road at Val­Scannell grew up i~ the shadow of much more than that. Proving him­
25 points, Miles spent 1983 studying man and sophomore years under paraiso.
-'%·•· w self on specialty teams, Scannell was
..,.

abroad in Rome. Upon returning to Rich Hunter, he has nothing but ready step in injury
South Bend for the '84 season, he praise for the orchestration of to when an 
forced starter Randy Ellis out. Scan­
discovered things were not the same Grace. ·­nell then played in each of the last
as when he left. "He is a very knowledgeable eight games, and was the only fresh­"It was an adjustment coming coach," says Miles. "From his experi­men to ~arn a monogram that year.
back," says Miles. "There were a lot ence as a player he is able to convey The spring of '83 didn't prove tooof players who I didn't know, a new his knowledge to the players better successful, however, as Scannellcoach,and my skills needed a good than others who don't have his on­went down with a knee injury. Thatdeal ofsharpening." the-field experience. That helped April, he had arthroscopic knee sur­To make matters even worse, the team's performance this season. 
gery. He worked his way back toearly this season midfielder Eric "This is the best skilled team I health to start the first two contests
Evans suffered an injury, thus have played on here at Notre Dame in '83, but once again, a knee injuryprecipitating a line adjustment by and we're losing only two players. 
set him back.
coach Dennis Grace. Grace moved lbis year was also a transition "It took a lot of hard work to getMiles from his customary position of season, for both first-year head back in shape," says ScannelL "I hadforward to a less offensively based coach Dennis Grace and myself, so to get over my initial fears and gainposition, midfielder. The switch we should be all the better next back my confidence. I don't evenmeant that Miles would not be as year." 
feel any effects now."
productive offensively as he had "He gives I00 percent all the Sharing time with Tom Doerger at
been in the past. time," says the Irish coach. "I hope 
the guard slot for the next three"I asked him to do a lot of things he uses his leadership potential to its 
games, Scannell earned his starting
that were not in his personal best in­fullest and beyond that. I expect the role back for good at the seventhterest," says Grace, "But that had to other players to look to Dave for an game of the season. And he con­be done for the overall benefit ofthe example in his attitude and training tinues into this season, serving as thesquad." habits this winter and spring." 
starting quick guard for the Irish. Yet 
From the beginning, it was quite Miles spent his high school years being such a consistent player forevident that this would be a difficult at Kailua High School in Hawaii the offense, it is rare that one wouldseason for Miles. where he earned three varsity let­see his name splashed all over the'It took me a while to get my skills ters in soccer and one for baseball. 
sports page. However, Scannell is
sharpened," says Miles, "Then I had In high school he played center­
content to play a subtle role for the
to learn a whole new system forward, and registered 21 goals and Irish.
(because of the coaching change) 14 assists in 3 I career games, "A great deal of the offense's suc­and after all that I had to play a posi­leading three different Hawaiian cess depends on the offensive line," tion that was different from the one I leagues in scoring. 
explains ScannelL "But the nature of
was accustomed to." Coming out of high school, Miles the game is such that the backs getFortunately for the Irish, Miles chose Notre Dame because its the press. That's okay -you get used
met these challenges head on, reputation for academic excellence to it after a while, and press doesn'tmaking the adjustment to midfielder and its rich tradition appealed to really matter then. You know ifuntil the second half of the season him. Miles is currently a junior, you've done well or not and that's all
when Evans was able to return. Thus majoring in architecture. After Guard Tim Scannell (54), along with center Mike Kelley (63) 
that matters."
far this season, Miles has scored six graduation, he will serve four years 
and the rest of the Irish offensive ltne corps, have started to get 
But it is evident that Scannell and
goals, third highest on the squad, in the Air Force, honoring his ROTC things together this season, as evidenced by the recent resurgence of 
Th~ Observer/Vic Guarmo 
and notched five assists for a total of scholarship. 
Notre Dame's long dormant rushing attack. Trisb Sullivan profiles see SCANNELL, page 141 7 points, while the Irish as a team But for now, Miles' thoughts will Scannell in her story above. 





