Decio dedication -page 8 

VOL XIX, NO. 16 lhl" indc.:pt·rHklll -.llldnll llt'\\ -.p.tpt-r wn ing 11o1n danK and -.allll man·., MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1984 


Mondale to meet with Soviet foreign minister one day before Reagan 
Associated Press the chill in U.S.-Soviet relations since Reagan took office in 1981. 
WASHINGTON Walter F. Reagan sought to calm any fears in Mondale, announcing that he will the electorate with his announce­meet with Soviet Foreign Minister ment Tuesday that he would meet Andrei Gromyko one day before with Gromyko. Mondale's an­President Reagan, said yesterday nouncement yesterday of his own that the Soviets have "nothing to meeting with Gromyko guarantees gain" by delaying negotiations past him at least a share of the spotlight the November election because when the Soviet official visits the "I'm tough and I know what I'm United States next week. doing." He made clear later that his ses­
Vice President George Bush, sion with the Soviet official "will not meanwhile, defended the Reagan­be negotiations. Only the president Gromyko meeting against charges of negotiates with foreign powers." election-year politics, saying, "It David Aaron, Mondale's chief ad­takes two to meet. ... Let's just be viser on national security, said glad they are meeting." Mondale was approached 
The Democratic presidential "unofficially" by the Soviets and in­nominee said he will emphasize that formed that Gromyko was willing to the Soviets shouldn't delay negotia­meet with the Democratic nominee. tions in the hope of getting a better
lbe Observer/lbom Bradley
Saint Mary's seniors and their fathers enjoy a deal from him. In his weekly paid radio speech,
dining hall after Mass which was held in the 
brunch in connection with last weekend's Father­"The Soviet Union has nothing to Mondale said that "other nations
Church ofLoretto. See photos and Jackie Rizner's 
gain from delay," Mondale said in his sometimes misread the meaning of
Daughter Weekend. The brunch 1vas held in the 
Rizner's story on page 3. 
weekly paid radio speech. "If I am our boisterous campaigns. Hearing elected president, I will drive a the issues that still divide us in an tough bargain and I will not sign any election season, they may wrongly agreement that fails to protect infer that we are divided on all

Army Reserve mock disaster 
American security." things. 
To underscore his point, Mondale "We are not. We are united in our said in a CBS news interview, "They commitment to strong defenses. We won't be able to use me; I'm tough agree on the urgency of avoiding

proves to be real, 2 left dead 
and I know what I'm doing." war. We refuse to make the possibil­Assodated Press around. We couldn't see because of He said Terry Hack, Mark Deetsch Mondale and Gromyko will meet ity of peace a casualty of this or any the dust." and William Ginn, the husband of in New York on Sept. 27. The next other political campaign." 
COLUMBUS, Ind. · An Army A hole was torn in one of the Cheryl Ginn, were released from the day, Gromyko will travel to Wash­Reserve mock disaster drill left two helicopters and both fell about IOO hospital yesterday. Robert ington to confer with Reagan. A .new NBC news poll gives people dead and I 5 injured when feet to the ground, narrowly missing lbompson, Donald Walker, Gregory Mondale has tried to make arms Reagan-Bush a whopping 62 percent the rotor blades of two helicopters a crowd of about I 50 people who Thornton, Daniel Wright and a man control and foreign policy the cen­compared to 32 percent for tangled on takeoff and the choppers were watching the exercises. identified only as Hughes, were terpiece of his campaign to win the Mondale-Ferraro. The poll of I ,496 plunged to the ground. After the accident, "everybody released last night. White House, repeatedly criticizing voters was taken Sept. 9-II. 
Maj. Dennis J. Dunn of the U.S. was just in awe," said Columbus Fire Army Safety Center based in Fort ChiefJim Miller. "It was like a horror Rucker, Ala., said yesterday that his show, but you couldn't change the field investigation into the crash will channel." 
Pope John Paul II visits Winnipeg 
take 1 5 weeks and a report '\'\ill be Doug Hollenbeck. was among two completed in 30 days. dozen paramedics and emergency medical technicians at the scene, Assodated Press Park, hours before the service. thousands, the pope will have a day 
"The possibility ofhuman error in said: "everybody's initial thing was As he often does, he broke away of rest and is expected to spend a this accident is quite high," Dunn to run up (to the crashed helicop­WINNIPEG, Manitoba-Pope John from his schedule to walk over to a few hours at a Rocky Mountain said. ters," he said. "But we had to hold up Paul II came to the broad Canadian waiting airport crowd, kissing retreat in Alberta. 
As investigators studied the because there were still parts in the prairie yesterday and paid tribute to children and blessing adults. At Winnipeg's red brick Cathedral scarred and debris-littered crash site air." an immigrant nation that has opened The pope, on the eighth day ofhis ofSts. Vladimir and Olga, the pontiff near the Columbus Municipal Air­Dunn said yesterday that the its arms to many cultures. I2-day Canadian visit, arrived in urged Ukrainian Catholics, who port on Sunday, word came that the probablity of a collision is much His first stop in the heart of Winnipeg, gateway city to the practice an Eastern rite dating back accident's death toll had climbed to greater when there the aircraft are Canada was at a Ukrainian Catholic Canadian West, after a flight from to the Byzantine Empire but pay alle­two. flying in formation. When asked cathedral, where he urged Uk­Toronto. giance to the pope, to act as an inter­
Nancy Alexander of Indianapolis whether such accidents occur fre­rainians to preserve their heritage Later yesterday, he was flying to mediary in efforts to reunite Russian Methodist Hospital said one of the quently, Dunn replied: while putting down roots in a new Edmonton, Alberta. Today, after an­and other Eastern Orthodox faiths helicopter pilots, 44-year-old "unfortunately, it happens too often. land. other outdoor Mass for tens of with Roman Catholicism. 
Thomas Heaverin of Louisville, Ky., Once is too often." "May you always preserve with fit­died at 10:30 a.m. Sunday from mul· Dunn also acknowledged that the ting pride the heritage of faith and tiple injuries he suffered in the UH-I H helicopters have been under culture which is yours," said the crash. He had been transferred by investigation for a possible design pontiff, who regard~ the Roman Lifeline Helicopter from Bar­flaw in the rotor assembly. "The flaw Catholic Church in Poland, his tholomew County Hospital hours causes "mast bumping," which homeland, as a keystone of Polish after the accident. means the rotor bumps the shaft that nationalism. 
Maj. James Swank of the Army attaches it to the helicopter and He eulogized a recently deceased Reserve in Columbus, Ohio, identi­causes the craft to go out ofcontrol. Ukrainian cardinal who was long a fied the other victim as Chief War­However, Dunn said that "from a symbol of anti-communism in the rant Officer Robert Machholz, 36, of preliminary standpoint, this does Soviet Union. Prestonsburg, Ky. not appear to be a mast bumping sit­The pope's schedule yesterday, 
uation." after a lunch of borscht, fish and 
The accident occurred when the Swank said officials did not have beef, included an open-air Mass in two Huey helicopters from the complete information yesterday on Winnipeg, where the papal visit had Reserve's 4I2th Medical Helicopter the people who were injured in the the theme "Faith and Culture in a Evacuation Co. were flying in close crash. He said all were from the Multicultural Society." formation for their final pass over Louisville area and all were with the Manitoba's 318,000 Catholics, the area before returning to their helicopter ambulance unit. one-third of the province's popula­base in Louisville, Ky. He identified those who were still tion, include dozens of ethnic 
"The propellers hit, and as soon as being treated at the Bartholomew groups, many East Europeans among they hit, they (the helicopters) slid," County Hospital as: Albert Bryant, them. Among recent arrivals are said I 5-year-old Tammy Johnson. good condition; Cynthia Fisher, hundreds of Vietnamese, Laotian, "They were coming back to say bye Scott Downs, David Morales, Ed­Cambodian and Polish refugees. to everybody. It was like slow mo· ward Cooley, Bruce Brown and Tens of thousands of people tion. All the parts were flying Cheryl Ginn, all in fair condition. flocked to the Mass site, Bird's Hill 
Saint Mary's to hold phone-a-thon for college 
ByJULIA HEWSON 
News Staff 
A mini phone-a-thon is to be held Sept. 24 and 25 to help kick-off Dr. Duggan's new 25 million dollar fund raising campaign for Saint Mary's. Senior Julie Strazzabosco, Student Body Vice President for academic affairs, has been selected to organize the event and says she hopes to raise S80,000. This phone-a-thon is to be a small supplemental version of the larger, full scale effort planned for spring with the money being put into an unrestricted fund for Saint Mary's. Julie has recruited 30 volunteer callers representing all four classes at Saint Mary's. The event will take place in room 303 of the Haggar College Center between 6 and 9p. m. so that callers may reach all the time zones across the nation at reasonable hours. 
The volunteers wiU be calling alumnae, parents, and friends of the college. Their ultimate goal is to persuade people to join the An­niversiary Club with a donation of between S140 and S499, or the Tower Club with a donation from S500 to S999. 


The Observer Monday, September 17, 1984-page 2 

Princess Diana, smiling to a cheering crowd, took home from the hospital yesterday her one-day-old second son, Henry Charles Albert David. The baby, third in line to the British throne, will be known to his family simply as Harry. The princess blushed as the crowd of about 1,000 people, some of whom had waited through the night outside London's St. Mary's Hospital, waved Union Jacks and called out, "Hurrah, Harry!" The royal couple's first child, two-year-old Prince William, visited his mother and baby brother at the hospital for 1 5 minutes earlier. The speed of the announcement of the names of the 6-pound, 14-ounce baby aroused speculation the princess knew from medical tests that it would be another boy. -AP 
Howard H. BakerJr., in the final weeks of his IS­year career as a senator, is making one last stab in his uphill campaign to admit television cameras to the Senate chamber. It's unlikely his colleagues will give the Republican leader from Tennessee his wish as a going-away present, but they will probably agree to end a threatened filibuster and might vote to allow radio coverage, Senate sources say. Procedural obstacles inthe Senate are blocking consid­eration of spending bi!~. including a military construction measure that is expected to touch off a debate over U.S.-built air bases in Honduras. Meanwhile, four major environmental bills are waiting in the wings for possible action, although all are threatened by the clock, since Congress is scheduled to adjourn on Oct. 4. -AP 
Pickle Packers Internationalis going to find 
out which presidential candidate the pickle packers support with what it bills, tongue-in-cheek, as the first-ever industrywide Pickle Presidential Poll. "We know that the pickle itself leans neither right nor left," said the group's executive vice president, William R. Moore, "but ... the pickle people .., have different preferences so we are polling them." During the next six weeks, the St. Charles-based association will poll its member companies to "determine if the pickle packers have their pinkies on the public pulse as far as presidential preference is concerned." The group plans to announce the results at its Oct. 31 convention in Scottsdale, Ariz. -AP 
The Great Gobbler Gallop in worthington, 
Minn. Saturday was won by a turkey named Paycheck, from Wor­thington, with a time of I minute, 19.85 seconds over the 150 yard course. Ruby Begonia of Cuero, Texas, lost Saturday's race through downtown Worthington, but will get another chance in the second heat, held Oct. 7 in Cuero during that city's Turkeyfest. The bird with the best combined time wins the Traveling Turkey Trophy of Tumultuous Triumph and its home city assumes the title of"Turkey Capital of the World" for a year. The race started slowly, with both birds jumping into the crowd and having to be retrieved. Wor­thington, once undisputed "turkey capital of the world," began the Turkey Day celebration in 1939. Some years ago, officials in Cuero challenged Worthington's status, and the turkey race evolved to set­tle the dispute. To date, Minnesota entries have won seven races and Texas birds have won four. -AP 

Weather 

Cool and clear today. Mostly sunny with a high of 69 and a low of 47. Tomorrow will again be mostly sunny with a high of 75. 


lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ( Sl 5 per se· mester) by writing lbc Observer, P 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduclion rights are reserved. 
Today"s issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig Design Assistant....... Kathleen Nicholson LayoutStaff............................................ inert Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck 
Cathyann Reynold5 News Edttor............................]ohn MenneII Copy Editor....................... : ....... Mark Potter Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown ND Day Editor................... Kathleen Doyle SMC Day Edttor........................Jody Radler Ad Design ..........................Jeanne and Fred Pbotograpber .........................Tom Bradley Typist ................................ Bill Highducheck 
-



Keeping things in perspective 
Interview with a certain campus column, which granted the interview on the condition it notbe identi­fied: 
Q: So, when exactly did you appear in The Observer? 
A: Oh, quite early in the semester. 
Q: What was the date? 

A: Hey, you don't think I'm stupid, do you? That'd be too easy, I mean, there was only one other article besides myself that day, and -Oops. Well, I'd better not say anymore. See, you got me already. You dirty journalist. 
Q: As you know, your appearance caused somewhat ofa stir among the younger members of the Notre Dame community, notably one member in particular who chose to write to The Observer to express his opinion. 
A: Yeah, well, that wasn't my intention. I was just hoping to brighten up someone's day, ynu know, maybe make a few people laugh while they were trying to swal­low dining hall lunch. I saw the letter he wrote, and I'm just sorry my point was missed. It wasn't supposed to be at anyone's expense. 
Q: Apparently some people were more sorry than you, though. His letter attracted a lot of flak from other young members ofthe NO commu­nity, and even made him the victim of various pranks and some anonymous phone calls. 

A: That's a shame that some people had to respond in such fashion. I read the let­ters in response to his letter, and I'll admit the satirical elements in each made me a little proud. However, things like crank calls are completely uncalled for. Like I said, I never meant to cause any trouble. I'm just your average column who wanted to make someone laugh a little. 
Q: That's not all, though. Now it appears there's a letter in response to the letters that were in response to the first letter. 
A: You're kidding. 
Q: No, I'm afraid I'm not. The stir isn't quite over yet. 
A: Great. You know, I think people are taking this whole thing and each other much too seriously. 
Q: What do you mean? 

A: What I mean is that this whole mess probably should have ended with the first letter. I thought the letter was kind of silly, but/ wasn't going to say anything about it. It was funny when someone did, but it really wasn't nec­essary. Now the situation is rebounding back and forth like a tennis match, and pretty soon we're gonna have responses to responses to responses, and it's getting ridiculous, you know? It's a terrible shame that I was 

Marc Ramirez 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Monday 

misunderstood in the first place. It just shouldn't have been that big ofa deal. 
Q: I agree. But why are you so worried about the con­troversy anyway? Aren't columns supposed to attract that sort of thing? 
A: Well, not necessarily. We're all different, you know. I could see an Inside Column not being too concerned about a little controversy, and Sports Columns are taught to tolerate it from the moment they're born. Edi­torial Columns -well, you know those guys. They thrive 
on starting a little furor here and there. But I've got a lot of friends who are Editorial Columns, so I'd better just shut up about that. With me, though, it was just the fact that I never intended to start anything. I mean, I can take criticism as well as the next column, but this little my­daddy-can-beat-up-your­daddy war is just crazy. 
Q: What should be done? 

A: First ofall, people have to stop taking things so seriously. There are obvi­ously some things you should take seriously, but something like me should have been perceived as satirical. You can't get 
through this place without a sense of humor. Things don't follow logically here. Including me, I guess. 
Q: Would you like to add anything else? 

A: Yeah, everybody should go and see "Purple Rain," and start listening more to Prince. He thinks the same way I do. We're all going to die someday, so why not have fun while you're here? Like the saying goes, life is too important to be taken seriously. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Vie-wpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial. board or The Observer staff. 

531 N. Michigan St., 1&1' Phone 233·4957
•.........••.......................................~; 
~ 
NEED AN IDEA 
FOR 
A FUND RAISER?? 
I have a great item for the Fall/Winter seasons. Very useful, and a terrific 
self-seller. High Commission Wages. Call Deal Enterprises 
234-3459 
(Please don't hesitate to leave a message with my answering machine.) 
Thank-You, .Mr. D. Logan 


DANCE-DANCE-DANCE 
ABIOGENESIS DANCE **COLLECTIVE ** 


IS HOLDING AUDITIONS FOR THEIR DANCE COMPANY Wed., Sept. 19 7 P.M. 
in the basement ofHoly Cross Hall at Notre Dame Everyone welcome No experience required 
Sundavs 5-6 P.M.-------JAZZ 
Tuesdays 6-7 P.M.-----BALLET 
7-8 P.M.-JANE FONDA WORKOUT 
Wednesdays 5-6 P.M.---MODERN 
Classes be!1in at basic level 
.-· ii held in baser.1ent ofHoly Cross at N.D. 


Questions? Call Steve at 2329 Kathy at 4136 

The Observer Monday, September 17, 1984-page 3 



United Auto Workers union, General Motors resume talks 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The United Auto Workers union and General Motors Corp. resumed contract bargaining yesterday with the company under increasing pressure from spot strikes against 13 GM plants. 
The walkouts were called after the UAW contract with the world's largest manufacturer expired at mid­night Friday. Most of the targeted plants would have been closed for the weekend even without the strikes. 
But yesterday, the action already had closed one plant where there was no strike, putting about 5,000 hourly employees out ofwork. 
"Buick's not building cars and can't use the bodies, and we have nowhere to store them," said Fred Craig, spokesman for the Fisher­Guide division body plant in Flint, Mich., the city hardest hit by the strikes. 
.Craig said the workers were sent home without layoff notices. The union said it would encourage its members to apply for layoffbenefits, which vary from state to state. 
Full production had been sched­uled for this morning, and if the walkouts continued many of the more than 100 GM supply plants soon would have no place to ship their products. 
VAW president Owen Bieber arrived in the ornate lobby of GM headquarters just before I 0 a.m. yes­terday, saying, "there's some tough issues still up there," referring to the bargaining rooms. 
Several union sources, however, said progress was being made on job security and wages, the union's top two issues, and a settlement could forthcoming before today's full shifts. 
On Saturday night, GM bargainer Pat Crane, in response to a question on when a there might be a settle­ment, replied "probably tomorrow." 
Crane, however, was out of sight yesterday. 
The UAW has said the main issue in the talks in job security, a bid to keep the automakers from farming out work to plants overseas. It also is seeking wage and benefit increases, including the first raise in three years of its 59.63-per-hour basic wage. lbe union gave up billions of 

tHIS OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA &. PUB Yhis Monday and Wednesday we will deliver a Medium 16" pizza with 1 topping for NEW HOURS 4-12 p.m. Mon-Sat Each additional item is 4-10 p.m. Sun $100 Now Open For Lunch at lla.•.n 277-4519 CALL BEFORE 11:30p.m. FOR DELIVERY EXPIRES 9 I 19! 84  


$1.00 
$1.00off any pizza. One coupon per pizza. 
Off Fast, Free Delivery"' Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 
r ------·· -~--South Bend / -Phone. 277-2151 i -Exp1res in one week. 
1 
JTC NA 129 2650 

dollars in contract concessions two years ago when the industry was losing money. 
About 62,000 of the 350,000 workers covered by the pact walked off their jobs when the contract expired. 
Twelve of GM's 29 assembly operations were struck -enough to cause rapid backups of supplies and stop production of many of GM's most popular cars. 
The 13th plant affected was GM's research center outside Detroit. 
Only one of them was scheduled for weekend work, through some workers at two Ohio and New York plants which were not struck stayed away, forcing some shift cancella­tions. 



Casino Night held at Angela Athletic Facility Saturday night was one ofthe events ofthe Father­featured a dance with Dapogny's Chicago jazz Daughter Weekend at Saint Mary's. Friday ntght Band. See story below. 

Father-Daughter Weekend held for Saint Mary's seniors 
ByJACKIE RIZNER • 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's senior Father­Daughter Weekend, held last weekend, was attended by close to 

HELP WANTED Apply in person at: 6502 Grape Rd. Mish. (across from U-Park Mall) 
160 fathers. Fathers came from as far 

as New York, Seattle, Washington, 
and Atlanta. 
Chairperson of the weekend, Mary Sue Dunn, said the weekend "was a huge success, a very special event," The weekend was the second of its kind and, according to Dunn, should become a permanant annual happening. 
The schedule of the weekend en­tailed James Dapogny's Chicago Jazz Band Friday night, followed by dan­cing in the Haggar College Center and a recep-tion in the Marriot. Sat­urday featured a 5-kilometer run around the campus, followed by a speaker series, which included the topics Life After Graduation and Tips on Taking Better Pictures, af­terwhich fathers and daughters watched the Notre Dame-Michigan 
Game on two big television screens.  
The evening was topped off by a  
Casino Night which Dunn said was  
'the highlight of the week-end, and  
was attended by over 450 people.  
Sunday concluded the weekend  
with a Mass in the Church ofLoretto  
and a brunch in the dining hall.  
The committee for the weekend  
consisted of Chairperson Mary Sue  
Dunn, Karen Young who organized  
the Friday night Cocktail Party,  
Chris Hart who ran the SaturdaY  
events, Ann Dugan who was in  
charge of Casino Night, Gaylen  
Gfroerer who put together the Mass  •  
and Angela Strougal who set up the  
brunch.  
The weekend was summed up by  
the father of senior Kathleen Gib­ 
ney, who said, "This is one ofthe top  
three weekends ofmy life."  •  




attention: 

Bow Accepting Applications for Senior l'ormal Committees 
May be picked up Friday, Sept. 14 through Thursday, Sept. 21 at LaFortune or _., St. Mary's StudentActivities 
Applications due 2 p.m. Friday, Sept. 21 
·­
-··-··--·~-------------------------------­
The Observer Mond~y, September 17, 1984-page 4 

are depleting thepopulations ofthe big cats by kil­

That officials examine a tiger skin seized ling tigers, leopards and other endangered species recently tn Bangkok, the world's marketplace for to supply Bangkok tourist emporiums with skins, the sale ofbig catproducts. Illegal wildlife traders teeth and claws. 
Controversy sparked by X-rated fundraiser at Indiana University 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, IND. A showing of the X-rated film, "Deep Throat" sponsered by a men's dor­mitory this past weekend at Indiana University in Bloomington has sparked a controversy at that univer­sity. 
Dodd's House, a men's dormitory, showed the film Friday and Saturday as part of the dormitory's annual fund-raiser for its "Uttle 500" bicycle racing team, intramural sports and parties. 
The screenings came on the same weekend that the Bloomington chapter ofthe National Organization of Women, Bloomington Film Soci­ety and Ill office for Women's Affairs showed the anti-porn film, "Not a Love Story." The groups also sponsored other activities to high­light their views about pornography. 
Monroe County Prosecutor Ron Waicukauski says he probably won't take legal action against the group that sponsored the film. 
At a panel discussion Saturday night following the showing of"Not a Love Story," Waicukauski said he has the option of filing criminal charges against the Dodds House students for exhibiting obscene ma­terial. 
But he said, "My own perception is that that would be a very difficult to do." · 
He said he would have to con­vince a jury that the students who sponsored the showing are criminals. 
'I'YPING 
•Term 
Papers •Resumes Jt-Letters •Manuscripts 

•Word 
Processing 


CaD Chris At: 
234-8997 
jeanne Walters, coordinator of the Bloomington chapter of NOW, said that filing lawsuits and criminal charges "is not the way to go." 
"The biggest crime they (the stu­dents) are guilty-of is poor judg­ment," she said. 
NOW sponsored the anti-porn activities as part ofits second annual ·:Take Back the Night" program. 
The national organization protests violence against and the dehumanization ofwomen. 
Connie Dyer, director ofthe IV of­fice for Women's Affairs and a panel participant, said she and organiza­tions such as NOW seek to educate people about the dangers and prob­lems associated with pornography in the hopes they will decide not to view such materiaL 
She said it isn't NOW and other group's mission to bring about cen­sorship ofsuch material. 
"It's frustrating that people don't like it, but are afraid to do anything about it," Ms. Dyer told the student­dominated audience. 
Last night, about 300 people gath­ered on the Ill campus and marched downtown to the Monroe County Courthouse where a candlelight vigil was held. 
Norma Bradway, of the Indiana Coalition Against Domestic Vio­lence, said that violence in the home has reached epidemic proportions. 
jj[]bj "Chips" Mic:hi~~··· Newest Night Spot 
N....,  4 ­ 9 Mixed Drinks 2 for 1  
233-4858  wFootb•lf'  9-close Budweiser ...75'  
FREE HOTDOGS  

Huge TV screen ............... Dance Floor . •............. No Cover! *Located: Take Eddy St. to Mish. Aue ... First Stop Light Tum right 
DOMER 
Six Mile Run 
and new this year 
DOMER 
Three Mile Run 

T-Shirts .. .... Six Mile Finishers Visors ...... Three Mile Finishers Trophies ..... All Division Winners 
$ 3 -Six Miles $ 2 -Three Miles 
Entries Available at NV A 
located in the ACC 
Deadline: September 19 

Fishing boat accident tragedy by land, water 
Associated Press 
BEVERLY SHORES, Ind. -A com­mercial fishing boat accident and the crash ofan ambulance rushing to the scene have left a 2-year-old girl dead, one man hospitalized and a fis­herman lost in Lake Michigan, aut­horities said yesterday. 
Divers from the Porter County Sheriff's Department were searching Lake Michigan for 25-year-old William Cornealuson of Michigan City, who was last seen when his 35­foot fishing boat capsized near Beverly Shores at 11 a.m. Saturday, police said. 
Police called offthe search yester­day afternoon, but planned to !"esume it this morning. 
The other man on board the boat, 45-year-old William Dickinson of Michigan City, was rescued minutes after the boat went down at 11 a.m. Saturday. He was being treated at Memorial Hospital in Michigan City for hypothermia and water in his lungs. 
Dickinson said he and Cor­nealuson had just picked up their fis­hing nets and were 1,000 feet from shore when they heard a"hell of a crash" on the windward side of the vessel. He said the lake's 6-foot waves probably propelled a log or other debris into the boat, causing the craft to take on water and trap the two men inside the cabin. 
"We knew we were going to go down," he said, adding that it was only a minute or two from the time he heard the crash until the boat was under water. 
Dickinson said he surfaced, then tried to communicate with Cor­nealuson. 
"I hollered at him to get off his boots and rubber pants, then I saw him duck under. I thought he was taking off his gear or looking for me. I was looking for something to hold on to, and that's the last time I saw him," he said. 
In the meantime, a Porter County Emergency Medical Services am­bulance that was rushing to the scene collided with a car on Indiana 49 in Chesterton, police said. 
Chesterton police said 2-year-old Michelle Pomeroy of Porter was killed in the crash, and her mother, 22-year-old Barbara Pomeroy, was taken to Porter Memorial Hospital with a concussion. 

SENIORS 
who have not yet signed upfor Senior Portraits may do so this week by calling the DOME office 
239-7524 
evenings between 7 and 11. 
l 

COUNSELINE 
I, All you do is dial 239-7793 and ask for the name t + or number of the tape you wish to hear. Below is the list of tapes offered. COUNSELINE 
l

J confidential telephone service that offers pro­
fessionally taped materials covering a variety of J student concerns. l 
tew Hours: 4-12pm MON.-fri 
Counseline Tapes 
Title 
1 Friendship Building 
3 Types of Intimacy 
4 Physical Intimacy 
6 Expreosins Nesative Thoughts and Feelings 
7 Dealing with Constructive Criticism 
8 Dealins with Anger 
9 UnderstandinA Jealouoy and How to Deal With It 
10 How to Say "No" 
16 Becoming Open to Others 
18 Dating Skills 
20 Female Homosexuality 
21 Male Homosexuall~y 
30 Anxiety and Possible Ways to Cope With It 
32 How to Deal with Loneliness 
33 How to Handle Fears 
34 Increasing Self-Awareness 
35 Building Self-Esteem and Confidence 
37 Relaxation Exercises • 
38 Coping with Stress . 
39 Female Sex Role--Chanse• and Stresses 
40 Hale Sex Role--Changes and Stresses 
44 Learning to Accept Yourself 
61 What is Therapy and How to Use It 
70 Infatuation or Love? 
83 How to Cope with a Broken Relationship 
Sl Death and Dying 
8> Understanding Grief 
9(1 Helping a Friend 160 Early Signs of an alcohol Problem 161 Responsible Decisions about Drinking 402 Self Assertiveness 
l 

412 Examples of Contract Building 431 What is Depression 432 How to Deal with Depression 433 Depression as a Lifestyle 478 Becoming Indepen1~Pt from Parents 
J

479 Dealing with Alcll~"•oJ.ic Parents 491 Suicidal Crisis 492 Recognizing Suicidal Potentials in Others 493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis 
COUNSELINEis a completely anonymous 
service offered by the counseling and psychol­
~ 

ogical services center. University of Notre Dame 
For further information orassistance call 
L ---239-W6 --­
1--­

~ 
1 
1 
• 
The Observer Monday, September 17, 1984 -page 5 
Unidentified warplanes score hits on Persian Gulf oil tankers, 6 hurt 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain -Warplanes over the Persian Gulf scored missile hits on two oil tankers yesterday, one a Greek-owned vessel chartered by Texaco and the other a South Korean ship carrying oil for Sri Lanka. Six seamen were reported hurt and extensive damage was re­ported. 
The raiders were not positively identified, but an officer on one ship reportedly saw Iranian markings on the planes. Shipping sources said the attacks were apparently Iran's response to recent sea and air strikes by Iraq against ships going to and from Iranian oil terminals. 
Iran and Iraq also reported new fighting yesterday in their four-year­
old conflict in the 733-mile war 
zone along their border. 
Arab radio stations in the gulf region said the defense and foreign ministers of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council will hold an emergency conference in Saudi Arabia tomorrow to discuss protec­tion for commercial shipping. The six nations are Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar and Oman. 
The two tankers hit yesterday were the Greek-owned, Liberian­registered Medheron and the South Korean-owned Royal Colombo, which was chartered by Sri Lanka's government-owned Ceylonese Ship­ping Corp. 
The raids drew no immediate comment from either Iraq or Iran. 
Iraq ordinarily issues statements claiming responsibility almost im­mediately after it has attacked a ship. 
In addition, Iraq usually attacks ships near Iran's Kharg Island oil ter­minal, while Iran's retaliatory at­tacks are usually against ships in neutral Arab waters. Both attacks yesterday were in neutral, central gulf waters more than 200 miles south of Kharg. 
The 122,000-ton Medheron, hit starboardside by a missile, was on its way to Ras Taunra, Saudi Arabia, to pick up a shipment of crude oil for Texaco. 
"My chiefofficer sighted the plane which carried the Iranian colors and markings visibly," the captain, Charalamsos Koliatis. 

Israeli Defense Minister Rabin calls Lebanese war most divisive 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin, in his first speech since taking office, called Israel's war in Lebanon the most divisive in the Jewish nation's 36-year history yesterday and said it must end. 
He gave no time frame for withdrawing Israel's troops, saying only that Israel first must secure its northern border from guerrilla at­tacks. 
"I think this goal can be achieved not in terms of years but in a much shorter period. More than that I would not say now," said Rabin in a 
speech to the U.S.-based United Jewish Appeal. 
At its first meeting yesterday, Prime Minister Shimon Peres' new Cabinet meanwhile agreed to cut $1 billion from the projected national budget of S20 billion. Peres' biparti­san government was sworn in Friday. 
Finance Minister Yitzhak Modai told reporters that a three-man com­mittee, comprising himself, Peres, and Economic Planning Minister Gad Yaacobi, would decide in the next few days where to trim. 
Israel's annual inflation rate is headed toward 400 percent and, at $23 billion, its foreign debt is among the highest per capita in the world. 
In his speech, Rabin appealed to the United States for economic aid both to help Israel meet its defense needs and to mend its faltering eco­nomy. 
Rabin, a former prim.e minister, drew loud applause when he said the new government planned to "put an end to our military involve­ment in Lebanon." 


lsraeliPrimeMinisterShimonPeres is seen hereat a meeting last week which established his biparti­
san government. The Government was sworn in lastFriday. At itsfirst meetingyesterdayPeres' new 
Cabinet agreed to cut 11 billion from an annual budget of120 billion. 

View~_o_i_n__t ________ M_o_nd-ay_,Se-pt-em-be-r-17_,1-98-4 :..p-ag_e_6 
Draft registration and access to education 
Americans have a long tradition of seeking to uphold personal rights and liberties (witness the Revolutionary War, the Civil War, and the transformations of the Sixties, to name just a few) and to end discrimination which inhibits our nation's progress. However, this lofty and admirable goal of justice for all is sometimes destroyed through prohibitive legislation. When this occurs, American citizens and institutions must main­tain their unalienable right ofdissent. 
Bill Krais 
self -transcendency 

During the past summer the United States Supreme Court upheld that college students who have not registered for the draft will not be allotted federal financial aid. Without thinking, someone supporting this decision is likely to say that individuals who do not up­hold federal laws should not be allowed to use federal aid to finance their education. But this issue has far reaching effects and, therefore, to state the Supreme Court's defense so simply would be very wrong indeed. 
It is quite obvious that the current legisla­tion is discriminatory in nature. It is sexually discriminatory: women who maintain similar moral convictions and ideals as dissenting men go unpunished. It is financially dis­criminatory: high-income students who can afford a college education without the need of federal financial assistance may oppose the law and be exonerated as well, while low­income individuals must either defy their con­science or drop out of school. For the low-income male who desires to be educated, this country assumes the role of a nation de­termined to benefit at the expense of this young man's conscience and/or education. This should not be the objective ofa country which so resolutely declares to be seeking peace and justice. 
Moreover, this enactment yields ramifica­tions which are greatly concerned with edu­cation in this country. According to David Fraser, president of Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania and chief opponent of the Su­preme Court ruling, "access to education is very important and it is terrible public policy to link access to education to compliance with some totally unrelated law." Further, he states that ".we should not use the withholding ofeducation as an enforcement of the law." 
Fraser believes that the responsibility ofthe university is to provide an education to any student who is academically qualified. Fraser states that Swarthmore is "committed exclu­sively to meeting the financial needs of stu­dents." This is supported by the fact that his college grants financial assistance to students who, because of their actions with regard to draft registration, do not qualify for federal aid. 
The decision to give financial aid, in Swarthmore's case, is not one ofmoral consid­eration, that is, it is not founded in some sort of fundamental religious belief. But its deci­sion, and others like it (at such schools as Har­vard, Yale, Haverford, and Earlham) is an attempt to oppose what Fraser calls the "Supreme Court's view ofeducation, that ofa quasi-fundamental right." Yet these schools are taking quite a risk by defending what they perceive to be a grave infringement upon civil liberties. According to Fraser, schools which supply alternative forms offinancial assistance may ultimately lose all federal funding. This seems quite ironic. An institution of higher learning, in an attempt to preserve unimpeded access to education, may itself be prohibited from offering such an education. 
It is not right for a country to impose its will upon another country. It is just as wrong for a country to impose its will upon the ideals of its citizens. Students must question the motives of a country which endorses dis­criminatory policies and which grants access to education to only those who submit to its every whim. 
Once again, quoting Fraser, "This policy creates greater and greater inequalities in our society. I worry that we will end up trying to enforce laws by withholding very important support from segments of our population which are most in need." 
BillKrats is a sophomore enrolled t n both the Program ofLiberal Studies andPhilosophy. 
Are we learning or being manipulated? 

I In terms of this campus' size, few people knew Ed. I was one ofthose few. Ed and I were
{ 
/ in a program where it is almost impossible not 
·,' 
to see a fellow classmate as something more
( 
f 
( than a number or a future S.Y.R. date. Some I time ago, I had joined the ranks of those who ( considered themselves proficient judges of character. Ed, I had reasoned, would get a degree and come back to watch home football games wearing a pair of kelly green pants, just 
( 
~ David Kroeger 
Wednesday's child 

(, like the rest ofus. Why, then, did I have to say ( goodbye to him one afternoon this past Au­( gust? Why did he abandon Notre Dame for re­( ligious service? ( Ed, quite simply, was not happy with Notre 
~ 
Dame, in terms ofthe education that it wanted to give him. This university was simply not {, fundamentalist enough in its theological J, teachings for this deeply religious person. He 
vehemently opposed the "standard" Biblical ~ interpretation offered by Notre Dame and was
{
, prepared to defend his own views admirably. He simply needed the opportunity to express
( 
these beliefs. The Legion of Christ o.ffered what the C.S.C. could not, and so Ed left the 
,~ 
latter behind. 
It is a strange feeling to find a tear in the ~ fabric ofour seemingly perfect lives. A sudden separation from a friend leaves one with .ques­
~ . -. -·.. . . . ~ . 
.. 
: 
~------------------------------------------­
tions for which there are, possibly, no answers. In vain, one searches for a reason. 
To instinctively point a finger at the theol­ogy department would be senseless. They have enough problems without this one being added to the list. Likewise, it would also be farcical to think of Ed as a revolutionary who was bent on the concept of changing the world. That only happens in spy movies. One must not blame, one must improve. 
It is often all too e~y for an instructor to try to mold the lifestyle ofa student into a pre-fab form. Granted, this is all done in the name of "education," but where does education stop and manipulation begin? Is it not better to al­low students to come to individual decisions after presenting all viable alternatives? Yet, I have often heard fellow students speak ofhow we cater to the preferences ofcertain profes­sors in order to get a better grade. To have to choose between a degree and values is un­thinkable. To promote such a decision is among the most heinous ofcrimes. 
Ed is gone. Those ofus who knew him have undoubtedly been affected by his presence. Others like him have come and gone here, each leaving their own short but special mark. Doubtless still more will continue to do so. Yet, one must not spend too much time con­cerned about these individuals. The real losers are those of us who remain manip­ulated. 
David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­lege of Arts & Letters Honors Program at Notre Dame and is a regular/)' featured col­umnist. 


Euthanasia is absurd 
Euthanasia should not be a legal choice at the disposal of any individual. Euthanasia is the killing ofhuman beings and it's wrong! All people have a right to life, and this right should be kept sacred. It is one of the funda­mental bases upon which this country was founded: life, liberty, and the pursuit ofhappi­ness. 
Proponents ofeuthanasia might try to argue that ifpeople have a right to life, then they also have a right to death. This is an irrational state­ment. If people have a right to liberty, does that mean that they also have a right to enslavement? Of course not, that is absurd! 
Proponents of euthanasia might then try to argue that people who are suffering or in­capacitated can no longer pursue happiness. This is jumping to conclusions. What is happi­ness? Every person has their own definition of happiness. Many retarded or handicapped people live a happy and full life. They have adjusted to their situation. Perhaps that is the problem in many cases: the victims simply 
DaneGalden 

guest column 
refuse to accept their new condition and ad­just to it or, in many more instances, it is the surviving relatives who refuse to accept and adjust to the victim's "new condition". Per­haps not being aware of the things around oneself is the purest form of serenity that one can experience. 
Another consideration lightly brushed aside by advocates of euthanasia is who should decide if and when a patient's life should be terminated. If the decision is left to the person in question, how can anyone be sure that that person is rational? What if the person is incapable of making his own deci­sion? If the relatives of that person are left to decide, whose best interest would the deci­sion be in? Economic concerns could weigh more heavily than the value of a person's life? And what if the relatives stand to gain an in­heritance of any sort, would this not be a motive for early termination? If the doctor is left to decide, this would totally destroy the trust in a doctor/patient relationship. If the decision is left to a group of doctors voting unanimously, what's to stop the relative from fishing around until they find doctors who agree with their position? 
Proponents of euthanasia might then offer the living will as a solution. First of all, let me state that the name they have given to it is mis­leading, the living will has nothing to do with living, it is permission to kill. The main charac­teristic ofa living will is that it gives imprecise, vague, and judgmental reasons for killing a person. If living wills become universally recognized as legal documents, then a doctor who is unsure of how to interpret the condi­tions set forth in a person's living will does not have much of a choice. If he keeps the patient alive, he risks being sued by the relatives. His only safe alternative becomes killing the pa­tient. 
At this point in the argument, two impor­
• .. 
tant questions come to mind. Aren't proponents of euthanasia forgetting the hypocratic oath that all doctors must take: an oath which states that all doctors must do everything in·their power to alleviate pain (presumably through the use of various drugs) and preserve life? Furthermore, haven't the proponents of euthanasia also for­gotten the possibility of a cure? Wasn't modern medicine developed, not to ter­minate life, but to save it, to prolong it, and to offer hope for the future? Proponents of eut­hanasia must plead guilty to both counts. 
At the opposite end of the spectrum from the living will, we get back to others making the decision for the sick person, involuntary euthanasia. Involuntary euthanasia is first degree murder, plain and simple. The law states that: malice aforethought is the primary condition for first degree murder. Malice to the layman means simply bad intentions; in le­gal terms, however, malice aforethought means knowingly planning to do something. Involuntary euthanasia, therefore, clearly falls under the legal definition offirst degree mur­der. 
Rather than having anyone subjectively deciding the fate ofa patient, many euthanasia advocates would suggest turning the fate of a person's life back into that person's hands by proposing the use of a test. Ifthe test is an IQ test, does that mean that people who are men­tally inferior but physically mobile should be killed? By this logic, many people who are now considered socially functional would be killed also. How can an intelligence standard be established? All people have different skills, who is to decide which are more desirable? 
These conclusions have the repercussions ofa repressive socialist society. "Absurd, " you might say, but at the War Crime Trials of the Nazi Germany officials it was determined that euthan~ia was the beginnings of the holocaust that followed. If a line is drawn and people who are ill and legally allowed to be killed, the line will constantly be moved a little at a time until it won't be very difficult to get rid of anyone you want by creating a few false pretenses. To allow euthanasia is to destroy the ethic of the protection of all human life. 
Euthanasia should not be a legal choice at the disposal of any individual. The abstract propositions and careful!y formed hypotheti­cals of euthanasia advocates are one thing; specific proposals designed to cover everyday situations are something else. Furthermore, any type of legislation would open the door for problems; problems, which euthanasia advocates always seem to overlook and ignore. A living will is judgmental and abstract; establishing a test is unfair. If I'm having a bad day today, can I have another try tomorrow? If I pass the test once will that be enough, or will I have to take another tomor­row, or until the outcome is the way you want it? 
There is no nice, easy, and clean-cut way of 
killing someone as euthanasia advocates 
might have you think. Euthanasia is a cop-out 
on caring for the sick and dying ofour society. 
Dane Galdetz is a freshman at Notre Dame. 
"ie~p.~o~i~n~t--------------~---------------------------M_o_n_d_ay_,_se_p_t_em__be_r_I_7_,_I9_8_4_-__P_a_ge_7_ 
Keeping the home fires burning 
Do the words "Big Apple" make your heart swell? Do you frequently find yourself "California Dreaming?" Would you rather be "Deep in the Heart of Texas" than anywhere else? If you feel strongly about your hometown, you may have a case of 
Maura Mandyck 
guest column 

Hometown Fever, Take this simple test. The telltale signs of HTF include: 
Your Midwestern/Southern/New York ac­cent gets thicker when you speak or think about home. It is particularly strong when you make statements such as "l don't have an ac­cent," or "Bet you can't guess where I'm from." 
You are rabid about at least one profes­sional sports team in your city. It doesn't mat­ter that they have never won the World Series/Super Bowl/ Stanley Cup; you love 
them anyway and you often find yourself in 
heated arguments as to why they're having a 
poor season 
You own at least one T-shirt, hat, or poster extolling the virtues of your hometown. It is your favorite T-shirt/hat/poster and the thought ofit being lost, stolen, or destroyed in a dorm fire brings tears to your eyes and a lump to your throat. 
You find yourselfhumming your state song, or a reasonable facsimile thereof, as vacations approach. Even though your friends clap their hands to their ears and run screaming from the room, even though your roommate has moved your bed into the hall for three con­secutive nights, you keep singing. 
The love you feel for your place of residence is directly proportional to the scorn you feel for other geographical locations. Those on the east coast are convinced that the west coast will -;omeday drop into the ocean. They are equally convinced that this would be a blessing for the nation as a whole. Those in the South are contemptuous of the onslaught of snow and ice that Yankees must endure, 

and those in the North say that Southerners 
talk funny. (Y'all do, too, we reply.) 
You are convinced absolutely and with no room for argument that your hometown is the best, no, the only place to live in the United States and possibly the world. People who live in other places are confused and misguided, or else they secretly want to live in your hometown but fear that they would be rejected as undeserving ofsuch paradise. 
Do you display these characteristics? Not sure yet? Let me further illustrate with a few case histories. 
I have a friend from Pittsburgh who insists that the Steelers are God's Chosen People. She has the uncanny ability to spot a fellow Pit­tsburgher at 100 yards, in a dense fog, and without her contact lenses. "I just knew you were from Pittsburgh!" she will exclaim. Col­loquialisms pepper her speech. (I will not of­fer examples because it would require the inclusion of an extensive glossary). She excitedly pointed out a coal elevator to a group in Indianapolis because she was sure we would be fascinated. (We weren't). 
My roommate turned off her hairdryer, turned up the radio and insisted that I listen to a Michigan advertisement because it men­tioned apples from Romeo, her hometown. Long Islanders believe that the United States is merely an annex to the strip of land that they call home. And a friend of mine who lives in Washington,D.C. seems to think that it is not the capital of the United States but of the world. I'm from Atlanta and I can show you the exact spot downtown where Melanie and Ashley Wilkes' house would have stood. Ask me about mint juleps on the verandah. 
The regional debates are ongoing. Is it soda or pop? Tennis shoes or sneakers? The issues are not that important but the fervency with which we plunge into arguments would indi­cate otherwise. But as silly as we all must sound sometimes, it is good to hear someone hotly defending their home. In a world that often seems jaded and cynical, fierce loyalties do exist and surface frequently. So keep· talking up the city of your choice. Keep the home fires burning. 
Maura Mandyck is a sophomore in the College ofArts & Letters atNotre Dame. 
P.O.BoxQ  
Reagan's "patriotism" hides real problems Dear Editor: I am writing in regard to last week's column by Bill Healy and the subsequent letter from Evan Farley. To say that the poor have benefitted most from President Reagan's economic policies is a cruel lie and ill-thought argu ment when one looks at the ever growing numbers of families finding themselves members of that class. Saying that the Reagan administration has tightened the belt of government spend­ing is equally foolish in the face ofthe growing deficit, and the ever increasing military budget. These oversights, though upsetting, are not the main purpose of this letter. Both Healy and Farley seem quite commit­ted to the traditional values and "new" patrio­tism they find so evident in the person of Reagan. I must say that I am not against family, faith, or pride in one's country. I firmly believe in all of these items, its just that I don't see them as readily in the policies of our current administration. Patriotism is a broad word that can be used in many ways. Certainly an unquestioning love for ones country may be patriotic, but for me the word has always meant something more. Since the beginning of my education I've been told how the founding statesmen of this nation formed a government on the beliefthat equality, justice and liberty were self-evident rights which should be granted to all human beings. These beliefs were not fought for in great wars against evil and malicious empires, but against fellow countrymen. In the fields, factories and on the floors of congress, the workers, the poor, and those cut off from these self-evident rights due to color ofskin or difference of tongue have waged battles in an attempt to secure them for all people and make this nation truer to its cause. This to me is the true patriotic spirit, to guide our country, which as a democracy acts in our name, on the right and just path. Certainly pride in our accomplishments as individuals acting in our country's name is all well and good, but to do so and ignore the questionable actions of our government and its allies in foreign lands, to ignore the hungry and homeless while we spend billions on weapons that we hope to never use, to ignore  the growing rift between our nation and the ling: the executioner simply obeying orders Johns of Lewis Hall, owe the entire freshman only other nation with the military power or the society which hands down those or­class an apology for insulting the intelligence great enough to destroy not only us but the ders? of one of the chosen participants in the Uni­whole world as we know it, is not only foolish, The greatest weakness in Cimino's argu­versity's prestigious honors program! Thanks it is reprehensible in its falseness. ment lies with his fundamental assumption: girls. Tim O'BrienReagan may play the image of patriotism "When someone denies a fellow human being Morrissey Hallwell but he lacks the substance the word (the right to live), they forfeit their own demands. His "new" patriotism will not make right."(sic) Such an assertion smacks of the United States stronger, it will only serve to bygone eras in the history ofhuman justice: an cover the true problems facing us as a nation eye for an eye. The Code of Hammurabi was South Bend police are in a red, white and blue shroud. instituted to curb the escalation ofblood-for­I can only hope that Healy and Farley are in blood violence, not to justify its use. We are just following orders the minority when ballots are cast in Novem­now participants in a new covenant of mercy ber, for if they are not I fear the people of this and forgiveness, disciples of the Christ who DearEditor: nation will be entrusting their freedoms to a said at his own execution, "Father, forgive We would like to add some interesting in­false and empty image. them; they do not know what they are doing." formation to the September 5th front-page Vincent]. Farina Furthermore, Cimino asks whether or not story on the break up of several off-campus Graduate student the reader feels the man who killed Cimino's parties by the South Bend Police. As two of uncle deserves to live. First, emotions do not those who were actually arrested we'd like to warrant the adoption of the death penalty. relate what we experienced at the August 3 l stDon't let them get Second, what does it mean to "deserve to party at Notre Dame Apartments. live"? Do you and I "deserve" to live? Life is a This party was advertised publicly aroundaway so easy gift of the Creator, bestowed by His grace, campus, even in the "personals" section of DearEditor: without merit. We cannot afford to arrogate that day's Observer's, and that night the hosts I am writing in response to Paul Cimino's the authority over life and death. made no visibleattempt shut down the party letter supporting the death penalty. Yes, james M. Pier (as of 12 p.m. that night they were still taking nobody has the right to take somebooy's life, Senior in money). not even the life ofsomeone who has commit­A South Bend police officer, quoted by The ted that same crime. Besides, why let him get Observer, said, "no additional patrols haveSkorcz has a right away so easy? Is it not better to lock him up been added (around student apartments)." and let him suffer and realize how other When we were being booked downtown,to his own opinion people have suffered too because of his. ac­we were talking with an officer who said that tions? No don't kill him. Let him pay for his fifteen extra policemen had been hired for crime in full. Dear Editor: Friday and Saturday nights with the specific Alfredo]. Dominguez It has come to my attention that people intention of breaking up student parties PlannerHall seem to be all too ready to jump on the band­which they had already had knowledge of, as wagon in criticizing Chris Skorcz's response did half the city ofSouth Bend. The police alsoDeath sentences do to "The Freshmen's Comprehensive Guide to went to these parties with the specific inten­the Campus." Everyone appears quick to cut tion of making arrrests. They approachednot deter criminals down a man for merely stating his opinion. these "raids" as though they had a specific Dear Editor: Whether it is agreed with or not, Skorcz has quota of arrests they wanted to make. We Paul Cimino advocates the adoption of the the right to state his position without having were told that they wanted to make at least l 5 death penalty by all states because "a death to worry about being subjected to obscene to 20 arrests Friday and Saturday night. penalty law would be a great deterrent to phone calls, in which the caller says what he The officer quoted by The Observer also crime." Well, Paul, this is simply not the case, or she has to and then hangs up without stated that "no directives from above about primarily because people who commit death leaving a name, and other gutless pranks. cracking down on student parties" were penalty crimes rarely ask themselves Skorcz should also be commended for ex­issued. From what we were told by one of the beforehand about the advisability of the act. pressing his opinion on his own. Some people arresting officers, the University requested The problem is more complex than that, but send in letters to The Observer with two or that police crack down on such parties. The research has demonstrated the ineffective­three co-authors whereas to avoid having one underlying reason for such stepped up police ness of capital punishment as a crime deter­person be burdened with the consequences action, as everyone is aware of, is the new al­rent. and responsibility that often comes with the cohol policy. As the officer who arrested us Cimino proposes the development of a writing of such a letter. This, obviously, is the put it, as he led a number of us victims away, method of execution whereby no individual work of pusillanimous and childish individ­was: must pull the switch. A quaint psychological uals! "Notre Dame ·----· up their policy, now remedy, perhaps a shade more sophisticated If I may confront an issue directly, maybe we'regoing to----you up." than the blank in the firing line, but of no some of the authors of these ridiculous Steve Ntcgorski moral value. Who incurs the guilt for the kil­responses, especially Fran Theby and Nancy Peter]. Walters  

---------------------------------J 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre DiJ.me, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor·m-Chtef. . . Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager . . Dave Taiclet Managmg Edttor . Mark Worscheh Controller . . Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Execut1ve Editor. . Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager . . Anne Culligan Un1versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. .It does not necessarily News Edttor . . . . Sarah Ham1lton Clfculation Manager ... Jeff O'Neill reflect the pol1c1es of the admtn1strat1on of e1ther mst1tut1on. The news is reported as News Edttor . . . Dan McCullough Systems Manager. .... Kevin Williams accurately and as ObjeCtively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the optnion Samt Mary·s Ed1tor . . . Anne Monastyrsk1 of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column Sports Edttor . . . . . . . . . . M1chael Sullivan present the v1ews of theH authors Column space IS available to all members of the Vtewpomt Edttor . Dave Grote 
Founded November 3,1966
commun1ty. and the free express1on of varytng opm1ons on campus. through letters. Features Ed1tor . . Mary Healy IS encouraged. Photo Edttor. . . . . .. Pete Laches 


Monday, September 17, 1984-page 8 
The Observer 
Decio Faculty Hall dedicated in weekend ever 
L 
and will make it possible to "receive no problem with the mixed depart­Ellerbe a1 students in a decent place." ments. Sharing among departments signed the 
His overall opinion? "It is beauti­is important." they have ' ( ful." Rhode Beck, a government pro­Hall of ( Marianne Burkhard, a visiting pro­fessor, feels either method of office Chemistry, ( fessor of German language and distribution is dependent on per­Pasquerilla 
! Arts and Letters faculty members 
describe new home as 'beautiful' 
( literature from the University of Illi­sonal preference. Although her de­and Grace ( By FRANK LIPO doctor of laws degree from the Uni­functional. Although the University nois at Champaign offered a differ­partment chose a block of offices in Memorial I 1, Senior StaffReporter versity in 1975. He attended DePaul has requested no posters or decora­ent perspective. She said, "We (the one section of Decio Hall, she said, signed the f c University and has served as director tions be placed on office doors, he faculty of the University of Ill.) "interdisciplinary contact is impor­law school {, The Decio (pronounced D-C-0) and board member of more than 30 said he feels that the building will received a new building about 12 tant." animal resc: ( Faculty Hall was officially dedicated civic, religious, business and educa­become more of a home for the fac­years ago, and it is not as beautiful." An employee of 1st Source Travel, natatorium, 
Friday in a Mass at Sacred Heart tional organizations. ulty when they personalize their She said she feels the faculty Mary Ann Waechter, calls the move, pool at the J Church. The new building provides When the Memorial library was respective oftices. lounge is an excellent place for fac­"wonderful." She said that the atnlO­Dedrick:~ ( a long-awaited home for the faculty built in 1963, the basement office Delgado said he hopes the new ulty members to meet one another sphere is much more pleasant, espe­were chose of the College ofArts and Letters space was viewed as temporary. The building will improve relations be­and appreciates the convenience of cially the feeling of being above their well-o 
1 
Located behind O'Shaughnessy new office building provides what tween faculty and students. He said having a copy center and the faculty ground after having. "no windows reasonable! Hall on the southeast quad, the most Arts and Letters faculty mem­so far it hasn't affected his relation­steno pool in the same building as for so long." She expects an increa..<;e mistake (l building consists of three four-story bers regard as a much-needed im­ships with students, but theoreti­the faculty offices. in business because of the acces­standpoint) sections, encompassing 75,000 provement. cally a more comfortable Offices were allocated according sibility of the new office. is to have a square feet. Angel Delgado, assistant professor environment will encourage more to the wishes of the department Physical Plant Director Don tural firms. 
The building contains 250 faculty of Spanish, said the building is "a comfortable relationships. He said, chairmen of the College of Arts and Dedrick said there were "absolutely of styles an'
( 
offices, a faculty lounge, stenog­great improvement," and the faculty "Any ways to encourage relation­Letters. The chairmen were asked if no problems whatsoever" in the LarlJ. Re.
( 
raphy pool, mailroom, computer is thrilled to occupy it. He said, "You ships between faculty and stu~ents they preferred their department construction of the building. eral contra terminal room and copy center. It have to realize the conditions of the are badly needed." offices in one block or scattered Ground was broken in September also have ~
~ 
will also house the Helen Kellogg In­old offices before you can fully ap­jean LaPorte, associate professor throughout the building. After a gen­1982, and the mild winters and well University (
(, 
stitute for International Studies and preciate our happiness here." of theology, agreed the old offices eral chart for allocations was conceived plans aided in the con­The new
l) 
the 1st Source Travel office. He spoke ofthe darkness of the li­were uncomfortable.He mentioned devised, individual office assign­struction, according to DedricR. Fac­art, music :
( 
Each office contains a large brary basement and the that the lack of air circulation in the ments were left up to the chairmen. ulty members began the move to ments, whic
( 
picture · window, a controllable inconvenience of sharing offices library basement made it impossible Diana de Treville, professor ofan­Decio I~ all in April 1984. ings.
( 
heating/cooling unit, a built-in with fellow professors. He said, "I to work for any extended period of thropology, said she feels there are
( 
bookcase, carpeting, a corkboard could hardly stay more than two time. He said Decio Hall is a "more advantages to either method of fac­
r 
strip and a built-in worktable. A new hours in my old office." human place." ulty distribution. She said, "Some
( ( desk, a filing cabinet and two chairs Delgado said he can comfortably He said he feels it is, "truly ad­people like to be in the midst oftheir are also provided. work the whole day in his new office justed to the needs of the faculty" departmental colleagues but I have
r' 
( The building is the S6.2 million and not feel any need to leave. He gift of Arthur Dec~o. president of said the amount of light is a big fac­
( 
( Skyline Corporation and a Univer­tor in his new office. ( sity trustee. Decio, a resident of Delgado's only complaint is the ( Elkhart, ln., received an honorary building is too geometric and too 
( 
~· 
( 
( 
( ( 
~ 
( 
~ 
( 
( 
I 
( 
( 
( One might find it hard to believe that the above banquet took
{ 
( place in a tent erectedfor the occasion on the east lawn outside the ( Decio buiding. Among the guests at the Friday night event were ( Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, andArthurDecio, ( the University trustee who dortated 16.2 million for the office ( building. The two are seen shaking hands below. At left are Decio 
and his wife, Patricia. Below is thefront entrance to the new build­~ ing. 
' 
r 
f 
( 
f 
( 
( 
r 
( 
( 
( 
r 
f ( 
( 
( 



( ( 
( ( ( 
( 


Hono1 


A k. and p Berger ly on~ nizatio in Vien. U.S.j1 of 17 Wagne School He ha Boston Schoo Boston 
is Univ1 
Nov. EnglisJ Hopkh has K literarJ educat1 Toront baccall degree, earnea Englisl 
A p history simons 42 yea, 17 of "TheR intern quarte1 Univer Colun Univer doctor Univet 
The alma Holyo an ace with and 
Washj 12 YE Unive where Unive Byzan 

L1 and t 
II 
Chrisl 

Elizabeth Kennan 

The Observer Monday, September 17, 1984 -page 9 

~vents 
Ellerbe and Ellerbe architects de­signed the facility. In recent years they have designed the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, Stepan Chemi~try, the Snite Museum, Pasquerilla East and West, Flanner and Grace Hall, the ACC and the Memorial Library. They also de­signed the power plant addition, the law school addition, the Galvin animal research addition and the natatorium, and the new swimming pool at the ACC. 
Dedrick said Ellerbe and Ellerbe were chosen repeatedly for both their well-conceived plans and their reasonable cost. He said, "The worst mistake (from an architectural standpoint) for a University to make is to have a whole series of architec­tural firms. It makes for a mish-mash of styles and visions." 
Larl). Reinke & Sons was the gen­eral contractor. Dedrick said they also have won bids for many other University projects. 
The new hall does not affect the art, music and psychology Depart­ments, which have their own build­
ings. The Decio Faculty Hall 
Jnorary Degree Recipients 





Eight feceive degrees 
at Decio convocation 
chairman of the National Endow­
ByCAROLECRAWFORD 
ment for the Humanities; Peter
News Staff 
Berger, University Professor at Bos­ton Univeristy; Matthew Fitzsimons,
Words -devotion to words and professor emeritus of history atthe ideas they convey -are the Notre Dame; John Kenneth
lifeblood of the new Decio Faculty Galbraith, the Paul M. Warburg Pro­Hall, said Garry Wills, keynote fessor Emeritus ofEconomics at Har­speaker at the Decio Faculty Hall vard University; Hugh Kenner, theDedication's academic convocation Andrew W. Mellon Professor ofSaturday morning. 
Humanities at John Hopkins Univer­Wills, Notre Dame's Welsh Visit­sity; and Elizabeth Sewell, Universitying Professor of American Studies, Professor of Humanities at Mercercall the Dccio building a "house of 
College.

devotion -devotion to words." He Not present to receive theirspoke of the importance words and awards were: Fernando Henriquethe ideas they convey have in each 
C-ardoso, a senator in the Brazilianofour lives. 
government; and Elizabeth Kennan,"Words are what can reach into president of Mount Holyoke Col­the deepest of one's emotions be­lege.
tween others and themselves," he Without referring to any of thesaid, adding, "we all are engaged scholars individually, Wills des­daily in a kind of mutual brainsur­
cribed the way all ofthem have used
gery." 

their words and ideas dynamically to"This is a world, and that ( Decio) 
expand our concept ofreality.

is a building, and we are creatures put together by words, words, The convocation concluded this
words," he concluded. weekend's series of dedication
Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­events. It took place in the Annen­
versity president, conferred berg Auditorium in the Snite
honorary Degrees of Doctor of Law 
on eight scholars: William Bennett, Museum. 
Symposium examines world of learning crisis 
By CAROL BROWN mit ment to the liberal arts. News Staff Kennan advised students to "take advantage of a whole variety of dis­
"The whole world oflearning is in cliplinary techniques," saying this crisis," said Notre Dame History Pro­sort of approach would open their fessor Philip Gleason at Friday mor­eyes. Describing the "intellectual ning's Decio Hall Dedication structure" as a "scaffolding ... on symposium titled "The Liberal Arts which we can play," Kennan empha­and the University." sized "the necessity to laugh again-­
Gleason's call for the to explore again." "reorganization of the world of "God is one, but God's first learning," was echoed by the other recorded act was to diversify," said three members of the symposium's Kenner, speaking of the need for panel. They were: Elizabeth Sewell, a diversification in college cur­working poet and part-time teacher riculums. He denounced the "dream at Mercer University; Elizabeth T. ofknowledge as a coherent ball" as a Kennan, a medievalist and current "twentieth century dillusion." president of Mount Holyoke Col­Sewell closed the discussion by lege; and Hugh Kenner, chairman of suggesting "maybe our unity bal­John Hopkins department of En­loon has blown up." Although she glish. ~poke of the importance of 
Each of these three distinguished specialization, Sewell expressed scholars received an honorary concern that excessive specializa­degree from the University at an aca­tion can become a sort of"prison." demic convocation Saturday after­noon. Gleason, the program's Kenner summarized the lecture moderator, specializes in American by stating no matter what the faculty intellectual history. thinks about how the curriculum is 
Michael Loux, dean of the College set up "students...go on learning" be­of Arts and Letters, introduced the cause "they are intelligent human lecture stressing Notre Dame's com-beings." 
A lay Lutheran thelogian and prominent sociologist, Berger has written extensive­ly on secularization, moder­nization and pluralism. Born in Vienna, Berger came to the 
U.S. from England at the age of 17 and was educated at Wagner College and the New School for Social Research. He has taught at Rutgers, Boston College, the New School and, currently, Boston University where he 
is University Professor. 
Now chairman of the English department at John Hopkin's University, Kenner has wrilten I 7 books (~r literary criticism. He wa' educated at the University o,f 
Toronto, where he received a baccalaureate and master\ degree, and Yale, where he earned a doctorate m English. 
A professor emeritus of history at Notre Dame, Fitz­simons retired in 1979 afler 42 years on the faculty. For 17 of those years he edited "The Review of Politics," the internationally known quarterly published by the University. He s!Udied at Columbia and Oxford Universities before taking his doctorate in history at the University of Chicago. 
The 16th president of her alma mater, Mount Holyoke College, Kennan is an accomplished medievalist, with degrees from Oxford and the University · of Washington. She taught for /2 years at The Catholic University of America, where she directed the University's Medieval and Byzantine Studies Program and the Program in Early Christian Humanism. 
Currently chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities and a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities, Bennett is a former president and director of the National Humanities Center in North Carolina. He holds a bachelor's degree from Williams College, a doc-­torate in philosophy from the University of Texas and a 
law  degree  from  Harvard  
Law School.  
A  prominent  Brazilian  

social scientist and public servant, Cardoso has ·written widely on the economic rela­tionship of the developing countries to rhe developed world. He was recently elected senator from Sao Paulo, where he is associated with the Brazilian Center for Analysis and Planning. He is on the advisory council of Notre Dame's Kellogg In­stitute for International Studies. 
A self-described "working poet," Sewell first came to America as a fellow at Ohio· State Universitv in /949, after a childhood spent part­ly in India and partly in England. She completed her graduate and undergraduate studies at Cambridge Univer­sity. She was a cofounder in 1967 of the experimental col­lege at Fordham University, Bensalem, and chaired it for two years. 
An economist, educator, author, political activist, and former diplomat. Galhrairh has sened as an economic ad vis o r t o s e \' e r a I DemocraTs, including Presi­dent John F. Kennedy. He was deputy administrator in the Office of Price Ac!­mmrstration in the early 
1940s, where he organized a warlime price control system. He earned his doc­torate in economics from rhe Universily ofCalifornia. 
Showcase 

Monday, September 1 7, 1984 -page 1 0 
HOPE for eating disorders


by Kathy Scarbeck 
features staff writer 
C
how down. Pig out. Freshman fifteen. These are terms that are used to describe the eating habits of many young people. 
Bulemia. Anorexia. These too are terms that, although lesser known, characterize the t:ating habits of nearly 20 percent of all college-age women who, as physicians say, are literally starving themselves to death. 
Both bulemia and anorexia ner­vosa are very serious eating disor­ders that affect mainly young 
women. According to former Notre Dame staffpsychologist Dr. Daniel Rybicki, both cases involve "an extreme fear offat." (The word bulemia comes from a Greek word meaning "ox hunger," suggestive ofthe bulemic's vora­cious appetite. Common to many bulemics is the binge/purge cycle which involves the consumption of large quantities of food high in simple sugar content. Between 2,000 and 6,000 calories are in­jesteo during the typical binge which is then followed by wme sort ofcompensatory action. Self induced vomiting, laxatives, diuretics, and amphetamines have all been used in attempts to purge one's self of food. "Laxatives are expecially harmful, because they can deplete the body ofsodium and potassium, causing heart attacks," Rybicki warns. One can easily become hooked on them and develop a "lazy bowl system" which may result in dehydration. Another type of bulemic is the binge restrictor who will binge but then starve herself. Rybicki says, "If you either binge or purge, then you've got a problem." Anorexia nervosa is a form of self starvation in which the person's fear ofbecoming obese results in a drastic loss ofbody weight. While the bulemic recognizes her prob­lem, the anorectic denies that one exists. 

Rybicki implicates society as being a major cause ofbulemia. "Ninety five percent of the patients I treat are female. Many women feel they must meet social expectations and have sul:cessful careers in addi­tion to being good housewives and mothers. They try to l.Je Wonder Woman and are trying to do too much. 
Bulemia also centers on the "high status issues" ofweight and appear­ance. "Sit in the St. Mary's cafeteria for just five minutes, and you'll hear talk about diets and weight," says Rybicki. 
A patient of Rybicki named Char­lotte has struggled v•ith many of these problems. She is 41, older than the average bulemic, but her troubles began during her teen years. Her weight tended to fluc­tuate, and she tried several different diets; after quitting smoking she gained still more. 
"I used to model, and my appear­ance means a lot to me. I couldn't handle my weight problem and wondered why I couldn't stop eating. It became more frustrating, and the only thing to do was throw up. I kept promising myself that this was the last time and that tomorrow I'd get a hold of it, but tomorrow never came," said Charlotte. 
After seeing a segment on bulemia on the Phil Donahue show, Charlotte "slightly thought" she might be bulemic and wrote down the number of a national agency that helps people with bulemia. 
"About six or seven months later I got worse and began hinging in my car, so I didn't have to worry about people seeing me," she says. "I'd spend two to two and a half hours eating fast food, and then I'd go to a McDonald's and eat some more so that when I'd vomit it would come out easily." Charlotte recalls the time when a piece of food became lodged in her throat 
and she had to throw her stomach 
against the sink to dislodge it. 

"I'd spend $20 to S25 a day on my food, and I found it harder and harder to explain where the money was going. One day I pulled my head out of the toilet and looked in the mirror," she says. It was then she decided she needed help. 
"I'm really feeling good now, and that's half the battle," Charlotte stat<;s. "Before I wanted to be the perfect wife, mother, and business woman, but that was impossible. Everyone makes mistakes." 
The recovery process is not easy, and Charlotte still experiences relapses. "The old ideas are still there. I had quit vomiting for 15 months, and then I felt out ofcon­trol and vomi ted. I have now been abstinent for three months." 
Rybicki urges people with anorectic or bulemic tendencies to seek professional help, as the disor­der won't go away by itself. Na­tional referral agencies, support groups, individual and group therapy, and medical treatment are ways in which aid may be given. The effects-kidney damage, bloat­ing, disturbed gums, heart prob­lems, menstrual disorders, and rashes -are, as Charlotte noted, "horrendous." 
Help is now available for students and others suffering the problem in the South Bend area. Rybicki is the director ofHOPE (Healthy Options for Problem Eaters), a therapeutic program of Memorial Hospital of South Bend. It will incorporate involvement from a variety of health care workers, including physicians, clinical dieticians, oc­cupational and recreational therapists, exercise physiologists, and social workers. It will make use ofgroup therapy, discussions and educational information about self-help techniques. A ten-week counselling session begins this Tuesday. For more information call 284-7308. 
Slurp your straw vote 
Special to The Obser~er curately reflected the mood of the national and local percentages. country by selecting the winning These figures are then posted at candidate. This year, it is expected theatre refreshment counters that over two million votes will be throughout the country.
F
or the past four presidential cast in "Straw Vote '84." 

elections, movie patrons attend­Patrons cast votes by requesting Ifyou are interested in castinging General Cinema Theatres have straws, identified with each can­your straw for the candidate ofyour cast Straw Votes for the candidate didate, when they purchase soft choice, or just seeing what the oftheir choice. 

drinks or when they simply want to results are so far, stop by the General Cinema's Straw Vote, vote. Straw usage is tallied daily and refreshment stand at Universitydesigned primarily as a fun promo­relayed to General Cinema's home Park Cinema, in University Park tion, on each occasion has ac-
office, where computers determine Mall. 

Showcase Monday, September 17, 1984 -page 11 

Above: Jane Fonda and John Voight, Academy A ward winners of 'Coming Home'. 
Films deal with social issues 
by Daniel Moran 
features staffwriter 

T
his semester, the Center for Social Concerns, in conjunction with Student Government, will again be sponsoring the annual Social Concerns Film Series. Four films dealing with important social issues will be presented during the semester. 
The series opens with a film dealing with the Vietnam War. "Coming Home," directed by Hal Ashby, depicts the hardships people encounter with shattered lives as a result of the war in Vietnam, while at the same time telling a beautiful love story. Noteworthy are the performances ofjane Fonda and john Voight, which won, 
'Oxford' won't lift the blues 
by Stephen Thomas 
features staff writer 

J. 
ust when I had a touch of the Notre Dame blues, I decided to eave this campus to see how stu­dents were busying themselves at another university. I ecscaped to England (by way ofa South Bend theatre) for roughly 90 minutes to see how Rob Lowe was adjusting as an Oxford freshman. 
"Oxford Blues," Hollywood's answer to picking up the dog days ofAugust at the box office, is enjoy­ing a healthy run. What it lacks in substance, it's sure to make up in dollars and cents. "Blues" is the story ofa Las Vegas Hotel parking attendant, Rob Lowe, who schemes his way into getting accepted at Oxford University. Once at Oxford, 

Tired of the old routine? 

Join 


The Features Department is accepting applications for: 
• 
Features day editor 

• 
Features layout staff 


Applications are due by Friday, Sept. 21 at 5 p.m. 
For more infonaatlon contact Mary Healy at the Oh•erveroffice. 239-5313 
respectively, the Academy Awards for Best Actress and Best Actor. 
Especially topical in an election year is "The Candidate," directed by Michael Ritchie. Robert Redford stars as an idealistic, liberal lawyer who runs for the U.S. Senate and discovers the moral bancruptcy in the behind-the-scenes world of American politics. The film's central thesis -that political candidates are sold the same way soap products and breakfast cereals arc -is as relevant today as it was back in 1969 when the film was released. 
"Union Maids," the third film in the series, is a documentary about women factory workers ofthe 
··-···=--.-.. 
his main priority is to win the heart ofLady Victoria (Amanda Pays), a student of 'royalty.' Standing in the way is Ally Sheedy, a spunky girl from New jersey who takes a liking to Lowe. 
After making a few blunders, Lowe finds himself thrown out, or "sent down" from Oxford. The only way that he can be readmitted to the University is by consenting to partake in a crew race against Har­vard University. Lowe is the team's hope ofbreaking a winning streak that Harvard has had for twenty five years. While it is not fiting that I reveal the ending ofthe film, the outcome of the race seems all too obvious for veteran moviegoers. 
1930's and their struggles to 
uionize. It shows the injustice 
towards women and other 
minorities in the industrial work 
field. 
"In the King of Prussia," the final film in the series, is a powerful examination of the motivation of eight Catholic peace activists on trial for the destruction of nuclear weapons. It is the story of how the "Plowshare Eight" break the law of the land for what they truly believe is right. 
The series is organized by the Social Concerns Film Task Force, a group ofstudents who volunteer time to promote discussion ofvital issues of the day and believe film is a powerful means to this end 
"Coming Home" will be shown tonight and tomorrow night at 7 and 9:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. "The Candidate" will be shown on Oct. 8 and 9 at 7 and 9:30p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. There will be a S 1 admission charge for these two films. "Union Maids" will be shown on Nov. 12 and 13 at 7 and 8:30 
p.m. 
at the Lafortune Auditorium. "In the King of Prussia" will be shown on Dec. 10 and 11 at 7 and 9 

p.m. 
in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission will be free for these last two films. 


Daniel Moran is a senior Film Major and a member ofthe Social Concerns Film Task Force. 
What "Oxford Blues" suffers from is a lack ofcreative formula. The big competition at the end ofthe film is all too familiar. Lowe's linking up with Sheedy and his shunning of Lady Victoria can be predicted less than halfway through the film. Everything works out perfectly, too perfectly. Essentially there's noth­ing wrong with "the same old story", if handled well, it can come across as new. Unfortunately, "Oxford" doesn't. 
The film's pacing is severely flawed. It rushes from one sequence to another, solving one problem and creating the next. What the film needs to do is slow down and con­centrate on expanding the potential that it has. The characters in "Blues" are too flat. We rarely see them interacting for long periods of time. The story ends with relation­ships not as developed as they should have been. Various themes such as love and selflessness, Ox· ford tradition, and the contrasts · between English and American cultures receive attention, but are never given foundation. 
One of the film's better scenes deals with a debate taking place in one of the great halls ofOxford. Students are arguing as to whether or not Columbus should have ever left to discover America. The dialogue in this scene is witty as American and British cultures clash over topics such as American art and the significance of "McDonald's" restaurants. This is one instance in which the film is not rushed and is well thought out. 
In the end, "Oxford" falls short and comes out shallow. It relies too heavily on the minimum to get by and, in effect, sacrifices substance. It appears that Hollywood was hoping to sell the film on Rob Lowe's name. Indeed, his name has sold a lot oftickets, but if you're looking for much more than a pretty face in "Oxford Blues," I recommend you look elsewhere. 

Sedelmaier beefs it up 
CHICAGO -He's the king ofcomedy -the 30-second variety. 
He doesn't tell jokes or appear in nightclubs and most people 
don't even know his name. But every day, millions of Americans 
meet the characters he creates, eat the food he sells and even mimic 
the words he uses. 
He is joeSedelmaier, director of television commercials. His cam­paigns -for Federal Express featuring a motor-mouthed executive and for Wendy's featuring the "Where's the beef?" line-have made his name magic in the big-bucks world of television advertising. 
"He's the king of comedy," says Steve Pickford, account super­visor for Ketchum Advertising in San Francisco. "He's in high demand." 
Today, advertising agencies are pounding at his door. A Wendy's sequel is on the air. Movie deals are in the works. Directors are im­itating his style. 
After 16 years of heading his own studio, Sedelmaier, 51, has become one ofthe busiest -and more controversial -men in his busi ness. 
Sedelmaier is perhaps the only commercial director who exer­
cises such complete control over his work, from early casting to final 
editing. It's a style that earns him staunch admirers and fierce critics. 
But both groups agree that whatever Sedelmaier does works well. And all he does is comedy, frequently in 30-second snippets. Some directors say humor in advertising can get in the way of selling the product, but Sedelmaier disagrees. "It's like someone who's ugly and says beauty isn't everything," he says. "Ifyou can't do it, you say it doesn't work." Sedelmaier says he uses comedy because "for most of the things said in commercials, there's no need to be that serious." 
Sedelmaierdoes 60 to 70 commercials annually -each can cost as much as $80,000 to S 120,000. He's already won more than 60 Clios, advertising's Oscars. 
His clients have included Mr. Coffee,Jartran rental trucks, PentaX cameras, Dunkin Donuts, Aamco Auto Transmissions, General Electric batteries, Alaska Airlines, SouthernAirw-ays, the Illinois State Lottery, Wendy's and Federal Express. 
Though the clients vary, Sedelmaier's comic touch does not. In each commercial, there's a bit of Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin or Harold Uoyd, all Sedelmaier childhood favorites. 
And there is one theme: everyday people confront -and survive ­everyday life with dread and determination. 
"I like people who try to make the best of a bad situation," Sedel­maier says. "We all try to do that ... Once you lose your sense of · humor, you become funny." 
In his Mr. Coffee spot, disgusted coffee drinkers toss their coffee pots out their windows while a bespectacled mailman warily looks toward the heavens and then calmly lifts his umbrella to ward offthe metallic rainfall. 
In an Aamco spot, appliances blow up in a poof of smoke just as their warranties expire. 
The world may collapse but Sedelmaier's people don't. "My people never overreact," says Sedelmaier, a youthful-looking man with a white beard, shock of thick white hair, an even smile and bellowing laugh. 
Unlike many directors, Sedelmaier shuns glamour and glitter. He prefers the kind of people seen on the morning bus, rather than billboards. 
They speak in cliches, have dour expressions, wear fedoras with bandanas and keep pinkflamingos on their lawns. 
Sedelmaier maintains a file of Polaroid photos that he builds on as a casting source. Most of his people are not trained actors and he doesn't like to cast in Hollywood. 
Sedelmaier also doesn't work with celebrities, though some have since achieved that status, such as Wendy's Clara Peller, the former manicurist he discovered several years ago. 
"There are an awful lot of plastic people," says Howard Rieger, a friend and senior vice president creative group head at the NW ayer agency in New York. "I think joe has done wonders in casting for unusual people." 
Others are less dazzled. "I think he focuses on the negative side of people," says Curvin O'Rielly, senior vice president and executive creative director at Ogilvy & mather in Chicago. "It's not a very flattering view of mankind. Ifa psychiatrist viewed Joe Sedelmaier's work, he'd say here's someone who doesn't like people." 
O'Rielly also is critical of Sedelmaier's hands-on approach, which can include rewriting dialogue after casting, changes in the se­quence or the emphasis. 
Making commercials "should be a collaborative effort," O'Rielly says. 
Sedelmaier was raised in Orrville, Ohio, then came to Chicago where he attended the School ofthe Art Institute. He took courses in painting and fine art, and worked as an art director, including a stint at J. Walter Thompson. He then set up his own studio, which has seven employees. 
At least one ofSedelmaier clients is singing his praises. Wendy's ­whose ad agency is Dancer Fitzgerald Sample -credits its "Where's the beef' campaign as a prime reason for a 32 percent increase in sales during the first half of the year. 
"The 'Where's the beef commercial has done more for an aware­ness ofWendy's than anything else in 15 years," says Denny Lynch, a Wendy's spokesman. "Joe Sedelmaier brought it all to life." 
\, 
'\ 
\ 
' 
: 
Sports Briefs 
Colorado football tickets are still available at gate 10 of the ACC. The tickets are Sl6 each.-The Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting 

tomorrow at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Women's GolfClub wm hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 p.m. at Corby Hall. Ifyou cannot attend, please call jane or Father Knoll. -The Observer 
The SMC swim team wm hold an organizational meeting this Wednesday, September 19 at 7 p.m. in the Regina Hall lobby. All interested swimmers are encouraged to attend. Ifyou have any questions, call Dan Flynn at 283-3852.-The Observer 
The men's volleyball club will hold tryouts tomorrow and Wednesday in the ACC Pit at 7 p.m. All interested may tryout. -The Observer 
• I
Monday, September 17, 1984 -page 12 
The Game 

An ultimate frisbee club is now being formed. The schedule will include weekend fall practices and spring games 
Stats 

against Purdue, Ohio State, Michigan, and others. If interested, call 
s.turday'• Game
Lance or Gerry at 1 588. -The Observer 
Notre Dame 0 3 7 14 24 Michigan State 17 0 3 0 20 
Scoring 
MSU -Butler 15 run (kick blocked) MSU -Butler 23 run (Ingram pass from Yarema) MSU -Mojsiejenko 24 FG NO-Carney 42 FG

Art Lambert, head coach of the Notre Dame volleyball 
NO-Pinken 40 pass from Beuertein (Carney kick) 
MSU -Mojsiejenko 43 FG 
NO-Jacksoo8 passfrom Beuerlein (Carney kick) 

team, will be the featured guest tomorrow on Speaking of Sports at 
10 p.m. on WVFI AM 64. To ask a question or voice your opinion, call 
NO -Pinkett 5 run (Carney kick) 
239-6400. -The Observer 
NO MSU First downs 18 15 Rushing attempts 49 47 Net Yards Rushing 127 164 Net Yards Passing 142 149 
Passes comp-attempted 12·21 9-17 Had intercepted 1 2 Total Net Yards 269 313

The Notre Dame field hockeyteam travelled 
Fumbles-lost 3-3 4·2 Penalties-yards 3-21 6-61

to Brooklyn, Mich., this weekend to play in the Sauk Valley Tourna­
Punts-average 5-46 6-35 

ment. The Irish lost two games on Saturday, the first to York of On­tario, 3-1. Molly McCabe scored the only goal in that game, with an assist from Melissa Sommer. In the second game on Saturday, Notre 
lndlvldu•l U.ders RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinken 22-60; Jefferson 

Dame lost to Ohio University, 1-0. Yesterday, The Irish beat the Uni­
11-40; Brooks 3-19; Smith 4-13; MiHer 1-13; Beuer­

versity of Waterloo,3-2. Corinne DiGiacomo scored one goal and 
letn 8--18; Michigan State: Butler 29-142; White 8·26; 
Aoberts3-10; Gates 2-£; Morse 1-2; Yarema4--22; 

had one assist, while McCabe got one goal and two assists and Som­
PASSING-Notre Dame: Bauerlein 12-21-1. 142; 

mer had one goal. In the second game yesterday, Notre Dame lost to 
Michigan State: Yarema 9-17-2, 149; 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Ballaro4-37: Pinkett3· 62; Brown 3-30; Jackson 2-13; Michigan State: In­gram 3-103; Gates 2-18; Belk 1-16; White 1-7; Butler 1-£; Morse 1--1; 
Attendance-76,919 
Central Michigan University, 2-0. -The Observer 


Need Miami ticketa Will pay$35ea.lC3639 URBAN PLUNGE DESPERATELY NEED 2 G.A. TIX FOR Help!! My folks never saw Notre Dame, Hut und Kr11WIItte... PHOTOS NEEDED -IF YOU TOOK S.C. GAME CALL MIKE 2834 but now Notre Dame is coming to my par­S.there. 
Found: Domer keys in Indy. Am. 351 and PHOTOS ON YOUR PLUNGE, THE ents. But they don't have tickets to the

L NOTICES 
car keys. call Matt 232-6697. CENTER FOR SOCIAL. CONCERNS NEED TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL JOHN Missouri game. That's where you come WANTS TO MAKE COPIES OF THEMI 1023 in. Sell me your pair of Missouri tickets. I Allee LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES • BROWN LEAVE YOUR PICTURES WITH THE don't have Blot but. whatever I have Will ba For 811 you do, thl• ~··for youII! 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? FRAMES. LOST SOMEWHERE BE· FRONT DESK -THEY WIU BE SOUTH CAROLINA SOUTH yours, if you sell me your Missouri tix. H•n• good day! Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­TWEEN KEENAN & LEWIS. IF FOUND RETURNED! CAROLINA SOUTH CAROLINA CALL BARB AT 284-4418. Thanks. w.. venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob PLEASE RETURN TO 238 LEWIS OR SOUTH CAROLINA My brother I•flying Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the CALL 2179 AND ASK FOR ALINE. NEED GLIB ARTICULATE OUTGOING In from the gre.t 8tlite of Meine •nd I In Iran a Man Can Bam on the Hand of a 
I j ROTC Building. (239-6264) PERSONALITIES TO SPEAK AT need 1 or 2 General AdmiUion or Stu­Ram With a Ham I \ LOST: ONE GOLD RING. ONE DOLLAR VARIOUS CHILD RELATED FUNC­dent tlckm for the South C.ollna But can a RamJamaMan in a can of
PERSONALS
' Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? g~~me. n you can KComodate piMee Spam?
GOLD PIECE IN SETIING.LOST FA1.7. TIONS. MUST LOVE TO WORK WITH 

Leadership Training! ChaHenge! Ad­VERY SENTIMENTAL, AND PARENTS CHILDREN AND WEAR HEAVY contliet Mett 8t 4013. venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob WILL KILL! PLEASE CALL 284-4331 IF COSTUME.$ 4.50/HR. CONTACT DAN Llirry Burke Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the FOUND. THANKS. ELLIS OR JERRY GRANT AT THE Desperately need 1 So. Carolina Stu. Ufe is never what it seems. Oh My ROTC Building. (239-6264) ticket please call SMC 5264 And every man must meet his destiny.
WINDY CITY RESTAURANT 272-4935. Th• trlldltlon continues... TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4062. ...................... ········-· --. ····-· ...... . -Styx Howard Hairs Hat and Tie Party is back.
HELP!!! NEED 2 STUD. TIX OR GA FOR LOST: ONE WHITE DRESSER WITH 5 COLORADO WILL TRADE FOR PENN. It's this Friday night at American Lagion 
DRAWERS. LAST SEEN BEHIND FAR­ST. STUD. OR FOR S.C. STUD. KEVIN Post 303. Grab your chapeau and
THE BADLANDS 
LEY AFTER CAVANAUGH/FARLEY FOR SALE cravate and BE THERE! 
!!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE THE BADlANDS HALL STORAGE. WHO TOOK IT? 2822 
PLEASE RETURN. CALL CATHY 2662. I NEED MIAMI GA"S. CALL BRIAN 36n. HELP!!!!Aich brother coming to Col. THE BADLANDS 
2n-3954. 
LOFTLOfTLOFTLOFTLOFT 

Marc Ramirez-Madder Than Mad In '84 game. Need 2 student or GA tickets LOST: 3 KEYS AND N.D. KEYCHAIN. 2 CALL STEVE 2658 

Will trade 2 Penn State and 2 Air Force soon!' If you can help, call Dave at 1753 ROOM KEYS (335) AND 1 SMALL KEY. 
GA"S for 2 MIAMI GA'S call Roger at 3207 as late as necessary. 
Lost on 8/31.1ffound, please call Kevin at FOR SALE 19n VW RABBIT 4 DOOR OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. THE BADLANDS 3047 HATCHBACK 5 SPEED GOOD CONDI­CARRY OUTT03 A.M. U.S 31 N., ONE HAPPY 23rd BIRTHDAY AG! Enjoy your 
. . .. . . . . . . ..' ... . . . ..... . ....... . ..' ............ . . ..' . . . . ..... TION CALL 272 8714 END 

BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. first birthday under the Dome! Love. DanI WANT YOUr Colorado tickets and I want THE BADLANDS LOST: NECKLACE THIN GOLD CHAIN them bad. I want them.l need them. I love WITH DIAMOND PENDANT, IN WO­For s.Je COLORADO GA'8. C.ll Mike H•t. .• ••POETRY BY STAN, D. LETIERMAN"S.
them. I must have them. Oh please. you

THE BADLANDS MEN'S LOCKER ROOM ~T ROCK. IF 8fter 1 0 pm. 234-6253 DOG..
don't know what this is doing to me. Not to YOU PICKED IT UP PLEASE CALL 

Tie••. MELONNI AT 2731 OR BRING IT BY 407 mention what my parents Will do to me ill ""MY EMPTY DISH MOCKS ME""don't get them. 
BADIN. 

...HOWIIrd Hllll. "MY EMPTY BEER CAN MOCKS ME'" 
Call Joe at 3296. This lx an emergency.

THE BADLANDS ... . .. . .. . .... . . . ... . .... . . ... . ..... . .. . .... . . ......... . .. . .... TICKETS "'MY DAY BOOZE CRUISE MOCKS ME" LOST: Black, pushbutton. collapsible NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET. CALL Happy Birthday J.P. MeG. "MY SYR SPENT IN SOLITUDE MOCKS THE BADlANDS umbreHa at Mr. D's during Senior class ······ FELICIA AT 284-4146. ME"
........ ······················ 

party thurs. nite. Call 232-0660 or leave Needed: 2 So. Carolina GAs; Markx1154 ATIENTION SENIORS "MY SPILLED SEED MOCKS ME" THE BADLANDS at Lost & Found. Hi Mindy! NEED 1 COLORADO, MIAMI, & AIR Available from 9/14 to 9/21 are appltca· "''M NOT KIDDING'!" $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ FORCE STUD TIC. CALL JOHN 233-lions for SENIOR FORMAL COMMIT· $ $ $ S $ $ $ $ S Desperately need 5114 TEES. Aplications may be picked up at NEED 20 PEOPLE FOR WOOD MFG. COLORADO TICKET call JIM 3467 either LaFortune or Haggar. They are due Boyte! Mlke11nd Mllrk CO.. OPERATORS & ASSEMBLERS. To the person who found my STATIS­THANKS STUDENT TICKET needed fOf by 2:00 9/21. Write Home! Love, Mom WEEKDAYS 4:00 • 8:30. $ 4.00 P/HR. TICS IN BUSINESS book in rm. 110 Hur­COLORADO game Sept. 22. Call Rob-

CONTACT WAYNE MILLER. DAYTON ley last Thurs., PLEASE return it to me!!! WANT TO MAKE MONEY? 3305. JUGGLER! CONTINENTAL CORP. 52275 US 31 N. (Put it this way, itoost $25 (this IS from the Then sell us your Colorado tickets! JUGGLER! THE HERB FAN CLUB is now forming. 2n-o111 bookstore!), I only have another$ 12, and We are desperate and will pay well!! I will PIIY cold h.,.d •uthentlc bona fide JUGGLER! Those who admire ·this legend of the 
I have a test nell! Thursday!!!!) I REALLY Help us! PLEASE!!! 1118de-ln-A..-tca caah for your Bring submissions to 309 O'Shag by Sept Notre Dame athletic dept. are invited to DC NEED THAT BOOK, so PLEASE Cal1283-2083/2084 Color11do tickets. Thl• Ia • one-time of· 21 join today by contacting Eddie. Member­THE MADNESS CONnNUES..... CALL!! (Bill x1305) ·THANKS Ask for Bob. Larry, Sid, or Oscar fer 80 tllke lldV8n'-ge now. c.JI the ship fee is only $ 1 and indudes a Herb 
It's something we've all got to do. Allen 8t 25311. why do we kill people who kill people to T ·shirt and a weekly newsletter. show that killing people is wrong? The legend goes on. I \ NEED 3 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKETS NEEDED 3 GA AIR FORCE. CALL TO THE COLORADO GAME. FOR In 1959, she watched while he killed a lot 
1. LOST/FOUND I ~'_F_O_R_RE_NT_'__, 
JAMIE 284-5476 VISITING ALUMS. CALL OSCAR AT ol people. The BADLANDS IUDIE4YOU 277-31165 IF YOU HAVE ANY TICKETS I'LLDIE4 YOU NEED 2 PENN STATE GA"S TO BUY­TO SELL. ARE YOU FUNNY? I'll DIE 4 YOU LOST LOST Woman's gold watch-­SONY'S BEST TAPE, UCX-S $ 3.50ea $ OR WILL TRADE FOR 2 AIR FORCE The Observer needs you! Would you die 4 me? 
..........................................................

Timex. Please if you find it or have found it 30/103681 GA"S. CALL JANET AT 4376 lm in desperate need of any Miami GA The Features Department is looking for O.C. STUDENTS!!! Pick up your copycall Kim at 4114. tickets Paul2318 
humor columlm and "rtoonl8tli. If 
of the OC newsletter today InUnfurnished Apt. For Rent for sale; ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK­you are interested, call Mary Healy at 239­LaFortune.

LOST: 9/5 BLUE AND WHITE 9 Blocks from N.D. AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL PLEASE HELP! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR 5303 
PERFUME ATOMIZER SOMEWHERE 2 Bedrooms, Living Room, Dining Room KIM AT 291-2957 COLORADO. CALL MAUREENAT2666 I AM STEAMED! 
BETWEEN SENIOR BAR AND &Kitchen Need lour PENN STATE tickets. PASOUERIUA EAST. HIGH SEN­$ 220 per month plus utilities & deposit lor sale; ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK­HAVE 4 COLORADO GAs FOR SALE, Please call Mary at 1333. 
Attention: All Alpha Phi Omega ServtceTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE Call232-8959 or 282-1963 AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL PREFER TO TRADE FOR S.C. GAs Frat members, there is an importantCAU4233. REWARD. THANK YOU KIM AT 291-2957 MIKE3309 

c.nn-.ll•tlc 
meeting to discuss upcoming events( off­Humenold campus party & concession stand)Found: Domer keys in Indy. Am. 351 and for sale; ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK­PARENTS DON'T CARE HOW BAD WE Underground tonight at 7:00,CSC building New and car keys. Call Matt 232-6697 AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL ARE. NEED 2 COLORADO TIX. CHRIS [)wei...!I!

) prospective members,male & Female are 
.. KIM AT 291-2957 1072 It can't be... 
welcomeLOST: 9/5 BLUE AND WHITE WANTED 

Living in Grace?!? PERFUME ATOMIZER SOMEWHERE NEED 2 COLORADO GA"S $ $ $ CALL Will give you two lix for Colorado game if 
' 
He was a man condemned to forever em­BETWEEN SENIOR BAR AND ROB AT 2516 you can get me two rooms reservations barrassing himself in public 

PASOUERIUA EAST. HIGH SEN­SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming on Fri. & Sat., 10/5 & 10/6, lor Miami Is anybody going to Texas for mid­TIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­NEED 4 COLORADO TIX!! HELP CALL game. Call collect 312-774-8370, ask for semester break? I need a ride CALL SAM 
How rMny of u• know who -rMIIy

CAU4233. REWARD. THANK YOU ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT BRIAN AT 1688. RayBolk. 4665 
•re?

Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­Need Miami tickets will pay$ 35 ea.x3639 6264) Need 1 or 2 GA's for Colorado Theresa NEED 4 MIAMI GA"S!!! Call Mike 2n-Organizational meeting of ND/SMC Nu­2858 3918$ $ dear Freeze Campaign Tues., 9/18 at 8 
MEN!!It"s your dream come true. CarolFOund: Domer keys in Indy. Am. 351 and NEEDED: TWO G.A. TICKETS FOR p.m. on 1st floor of Badin. Call Beth at Camp is celebrating her 22nd Birthdaycar keys. Call Matt 232-6697. MIAMI GAME: CALL 283·3884 NEEDED ... 2 tickets for Penn State game. Have Colo GA"s. Good location. Call Liisa 2720 for info. 

today. Stop by 803 PE and give this beau­
Call Shannon · 284-4164 at 272-o805 after 4 pm. 
tiful Texas belle a birthday kiss. 

LOST: 9/5 BLUE AND WHITE WANTED; FULL· TIME BABYSITIEA AT 
LAt'• go 101 • -lk...•fter -untie my 
...........

PERFUME ATOMIZER SOMEWHERE MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND I need two (2) GA s for both Miami and Need 2 ST TIX COLO Maggte 3899 teddybe8r... 
Boy, are we on a roll.

j BETWEEN SENIOR BAR AND OCC. 4 YR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORT A· Penn State Please call2442 Of 1585 \ PASOUERIUA EAST. HIGH SEN­TION TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA. Have:2 COLORADO GAs. Will trade lor 1 Tothefreshmenin8D--Jim. John, Franli, Just when you thought it was safe SKID TIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE SALARIED. REFERENCES AFTER NEED PENN STATE TIX-2 GA"S AND 3 Colorado stud. tic and Cash. Call Jeff at Tom. Mike. and Ben -If you break parie­ROW is back!!!! SKID FEVER ......... catch CAU4233. REWARD. THANK YOU 6PM CALL; 289-9193. II PERSO// A-STUDENT.CALL ROBIN AT 234-7319. 1049 tals like that agam. we'll turn you all in ... it. ...................... .. ....................................:. 
The Ohserr•er Notrt" Damt" oltkt". loc:atc:d on thl" third floor of l.al'ortum· Studc:nt Cc:ntc:r, au:c:pts clas.o;ific:d advnti~ing from _<J a.m. until 4 p.m.. Mond:l\ through friday. Tbl' Obser1•er Saint Mary's oftkt·. hKatt:d on the: third floor ,f Haggar Colkgt" Cc:ntt·r. ao.:t"pt~ c:lassitlc:ds from 12:.'W p.m. until .~ p.m.. Mou day though friday. lkadlim· for m·xt dav classilkds is ~ p.m. All classifit"t:, must ht" prepaid. c:itht·r in pc:rson or hy mail. Charge: is I 0 cents per five: d1arat
Classifieds 
tt·rs t·r dav. 
The Observer Monday, September 17, 1984-page 13 
Irish baseball team wins two, loses , ties one over weekend 
ByTOMYOON 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team won two games, lost 
one game, and had  one called  on  
darkness.  
Yesterday,  the  Irish  split  a  

doubleheader with Bradley Univer· sity, losing the first, 4-3, but coming back in the second to win, 3-2. 
On Saturday, the Irish beat Spring Arbor College in the first, 7-6, and tied the second game, 3·3. 
"The team played very well in the four games," caoch Larry Gallo said, "and we had a chance ro win them all. I was very pleased with the hit­ting and the pitching, but our defense was erratic at times. They were making the great plays, but were missing the routine ones." 
In yesterday's game against Brad­ley University, the Braves started the scoring in the second inning when their batter was hit by a pitch from pitcher Joe Dobosh. He then reached second on an error and scored when Troy Guidotti, their right fielder, poked a single up the middle. then in the third inning, Bradley scored another run when the lead-off hitter, Dave Panizzi, hit a single to left, stole second, reached third on an error, and scored on a sacrifice fly by Edmund Waylock. 
Notre Dame scored its run in the bottom of the fifth when Mike Dur­ning reached first on an error, ad­vanced to third on a single by Rich Vanthournout and scored when John Loughran hit into an out. 
Bradley then scored two runs in the top ofthe sixth whenits first bat· ter hit a double and reached third on a single. Two players scored when Eric Kuhlman ripped a triple to right field. 
Notre Dame then scored in the bottom of the sixth when Mike Trudeau singled, advanced to second on David Clark's single, and finally scored on Durning's single, which made the score 2-4. 
That was it for the Irish until the bottom of the eighth when Jack Moran, the Irish team captain, slapped a single to centerand scored on Durning's sacrifice to left field. 
That was how game one ended, with joe Dobosh taking the loss for the Irish, and Lindsey Rolston get­ting the win with relief help from Bob Bretwish. 
Game two saw Bradley again jump out wan early lead when Glenn Dal­lman hit a solo home run to right­center field. Notre Dame then scored two runs in the bottom ofthe ftfth when Mike Carmola was hit by a pitch and scored when Vanthour­nout ripped a triple to right. He then scored on Darryl Kaelin's single to center, thus making the score 2-1. 
Bradley scored a run in the top of the sixth, making the score 2-2. Then in the bottom of the ninth, after pinch hitter john Loughran hit a single to left, advanced to second on a walk to Mike Durning, and reached third on Ken Soos's sacrifice bunt,Jack Moran stepped up and hit a fly ball to center that was deep 
enough  to  score  the winning  run  
from  third,  pinch  runner  Pat  
O'Brien.  
Buster  Lopes got  the  win  and  

Roger Smithburg suffered the loss. In game one on Saturday, Spring Arbor exploded for three runs in the 

first, when the first two batters hit back-to-back singles and the clean­up hitter drew a walk, thus loading the bases. Then Irish pitcher Brad Cross threw a wild pitch, thus allow­ing Spring Arbor to score its first run. The next batter then hit into a fielder's choice, scoring the second run, and the sixth batter reached first on an error, allowing the third run to score. 
Notre Dame's big inning was in the fifth, when, trailing 5·3, David Clark reached first on an error by the shortstop, reached second on a single by Loughran, and both ad­vanced on a single by Mike Wook­cock. With the bases loaded, Tom Guilfoile reached second on an er­ror by the second baseman, thus al­lowing two runs to score for the Irish, making the score 5-5. 
Spring Arbor then scored their last run in the sixth when thier lead­offhitter single to left and scored on a fielder's choice. 
Notre Dame didn't strike back un­til the Irish scored the tying run in the bottom of the eighth when Tom Guilfoile nailed a double to left-
IS Notre Dame 'Still Catholic? 

Mention Notre Dame to most people and what do they think of? Pat O'Brien? The Gipper? The Golden Dome? Everything Catholic and American? Well, a lot of water has flowed down the St. Joseph River since Knute Rockne: All American. 
By the spring semester of 1984 it was clear that the theology de­partment at Notre Dame was in serious trouble. Father Richard McBrien had been brought in three years before to re-Catholicize what was clearly becoming an interdenominational department. In the spring of 1983 a number af students had become so scandalized by their theology teachers that they took their own poll to find out which if any of them still believed that Christ rose from the dead, 
. that Mary was a virgin, or that homosexuality and abortion were wrong. In the fall of 1983, the department hired former priest Daniel 
C. Maguire as the John A. O'Brien Professor of Moral Theology. In his first semester at Notre Dame, Maguire published a proabortion article in Christian Century. Either he or Notre Dame or both were testing the waters to see whether it was now acceptable to be a pro­abortion moral theologian at a Catholic university. 
By the end of 1983-84 academic year, tenured theology pro­fessor Elizabeth Schuessler Fiorenza had lent her name to a manifesto issued by the notorious proabortion front group Catho­lics for Free Choice. Of all the people who signed the manifesto only two were teaching at Catholic institutions, and both of them were at Notre Dame. Both the local bishop and Father Hesburgh were em­barrassed, and both were hoping that the whole thing would go away before anyone noticed. 
But just when things seemed to be quieting down, the article in Fidelity appeared. "Is Notre Dame Still Catholic?", based on in­terviews with students, seminarians, theology professors, and Fa­ther McBrien, the department chairman, shows that the apostasy had gone deeper than anyone suspected. "Is Notre Dame Still Cath­olic?" brings the full story of what has happened at Catholic univer­sities out in the open. It is indispensable reading for anyone who wants to know what went wrong with Catholic education in this country and what we can expect when the pope and bishops act to implement the new code of canon law. 
Reprints of this important article are available for $1.50. Or you can get a copy free with a one year subscription to Fidelity, a new Catholic magazine that is as Catholic as the pope. 
Fidelity tells the stories that you won't read anywhere else. It gives a truly Catholic perspective on the most intimate and critical issues of our time-the battle for the family (of which the abortion issue is just one skirmish) and the battle for the Catholic Church in the United States. 
Send me $15, and I'll send you 12 issues of a magazine that is unapologetically Catholic. It's Catholic enough to make a difference in a person's life. 

Fidelity 206 Marquette Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 
Name 
Street 
City I State I Zip I have enclosed: 0 $1.50 for one copy of "Is Notre Dame Still Catholic?" 
0 $15 for a free copy of "Is Notre Dame Still Catholic?" plus a year's subscription (12 issues) to Fidelity. 
It's Time For A Change. It's Time For TIOfliTY 
center field. He then scored when Jack Moran hit into a fielder's choice, thus making the score, 6-6. Notre Dame then won the game in the bottom of the ninth when John Murphy stroked a single to right and advanced to second on Loughran's sacrifice bunt. He then scored when Mike Woodrock hit a single to right, ending the game, 7-6. 
The winning pitcher for the Irish was Kevin Rudge, who relievedJohn Gleeson in the ninth, who earlier had relieved Brad Cross, the starting pitcher. Spunger suffered the loss for Spring Arbor. 
Notre Dame is now 2-1-1 in the fall season. 
Victory 
continued/rom page 16 
Ohio State in ninth. 
In a cross country meet only the 
top five runners from each team 
count in the final score. However, 
the sixth-and seventh-place runners 
keep their place in the standings and 
do not allow the scoring runners 
from another team to move up in the 
scoring placements. 
John Magill was the sixth-place 
runner for Notre Dame, and he 
finished twenty-third overall in a 
time of 25:22.7. Rick Mulvey placed 
seventh for the Irish and twenty­
eigth overall in a time of 25:40.3. 
The forty-nine-man field got off to 
a clean start, and at the one-mile 
mark a Western Michigan runner 
was in front with a quick 4:48 first 
mile. The rest of the field was still 
tightly bunched together and di­
rectly behind the lead runner. 
One mile later Ohio State runners 
claimed the top two spots as they 
sped by the two mile mark in 9:42. 
The rest of the pack was close be­
hind and running three and four 
abreast. Only a few runners had 
begun to fall off the pace. 
The next mile made a difference in spreading out the field because after three miles all the runners were running single file. Leading the field was Klodnick of Ohio State, Mau of Northwestern, and followed by the three Notre Dame runners: Collins, Cannon, and Courtney. The lead time at this point in the race was 14:42. 
At the four-mile mark Mau claimed the lead spot for good, while Klodnick trailed by twenty yards. Ten yards further back was the group of three Notre Dame run­ners. Mau cruised over the first four miles in 19:32. 
No surprises were in store at the finish because Mau ran strong all the way. Klodnick wasn't able to chal­lenge for the lead at the end, but he ran well enough to fend off any threat by the group ofIrish runners. The three Notre Dame runners ran together down the stretch until the end when Collins nosed ahead of Cannon and Courtney. 
After the meet Piilne was "real pleased." He said the "top seven ran very well" while the rest ofthe team did a great job, and he had no com­plaints. He said he was surprised by his team's wide margin ofvictory. 
The Irish runners have a much deserved week offto rest. They must begin to prepare for the National Catholic Meet, which will be held at Notre Dame on Friday, September 28. 

HELP WANTED Apply in person at: 6502 Grape Rd. Mlsh. (across from U-Park Mall) 

-~----~----------~---------------------­
---------~-~-~ -----------­
\. 
The Obserwr Monday, September 17, 1984 -page 14 
Football team begins to prove what it can do against Spartans 
By ED DOMANSKY the mistakes we made," said Pinkett. On the Spartan's next possesion, Sports Writer "But we knew that we still had 30 with just over a minute remaining in minutes left in the football game; the game, Mike Gann sacked quar­
EAST LANSING, Mich. -The Notre and that was plenty of time to come terback Dave Yarema for a 12-yard Dame football team entered Satur· back and win the ball game. It was a loss. The very next play Yarema's day's Michigan State contest hoping true test of character and of how long pass from his eight-yard line to prove that it was indeed a better much poise we had." was picked off by Notre Dame's squad than the one that lost to Defensively in the second half, Steve Lawrence at the Irish 4 3. Purdue one week earlier. Notre Dame looked like a different With the Notre Dame defense 
Rallying for a 24-20 victory would team. looking solid, the offense made certainly seem to indicate that the "Coach Kelly and Coach Christoff some changes and went to work in 
-
.. Irish had proven their point. A 17-0 realized that if we ran the outside quest of the comeback. first-quarter deficit seemed like a lot slant it would work beuer since they After hitting just three of nine to overcome, especially if one were running the sweep so much," passes in the first half, quarterback
\ . 
recalls that in the last three seasons said middle linebacker Tony Fur­Steve Beuerlein turned things
'
' . 

-Notre Dame has never managed to janie. around and completed nine of 12 come from behind when it trailed at The new Irish intensity became second half attempts, two for touch­halftime. even more apparent with Mike downs. 
"It has to go down as one of Notre Haywood's fourth quarter block of a "In the second half I came out a lot Dame's greatest comebacks," said Ralf Mojsienjenko punt which gave more relaxed," Beuerlein stated, jubilant head coach Gerry Faust. Notre Dame the ball at the Spartan "and I think that's why I was more 
Courage and aggressive play made 14-yard line. Haywood had been effective." the victory possible, but no one can burned earlier on the long pass com­Outweighing the Michigan State deny that through early indications, pletions, but the block more than defensive line by 40 pounds per the Irish appeared to be setting the atoned for his mistakes and made man, the Notre Dame offensive line stage for a repeat performance oflast him an instant hero. likewise rose to the occasion and week's fiasco in the Hoosier Dome. "I have the option to jump ovc;r eventually the size factor took its 

In a period of slightly more than the fullback or go around him," said toll. six minutes, they had managed to a happy Haywood. "I decided I "They've got a very quick defense, surrender long passes of 42 and 50 could jump over him since he was but we've got the strength up from yards (although the former was nul­only about 5-8 or S-9." where it break.o;; that quickness lified by a penalty), fumble on their Later, with Michigan State at the down," said Pinkett. "In the second own 25-yard line, and throw an in­Notre Dame 16, Joe Johnson nailed half, we just took charge of the line terception that gave the Spartans the Lorenzo White on a fourth-and-one of scrimmage and just started hall at the Notre Dame 15. play, forcing a fumble to squelch the wearing them down." 
State took advantage of all three drive. opportunities and thus held a 17-0 "In the second half we didn't Ifthe Irish are to stay on track, Sat­lead. worry about the pass or the run. We urday's flawless second half is cer­
An Allen Pinkett fumble at the just went out and played the kind of tainly a good start. But for a Notre Michigan State two-yard line with defense we had to play," said Dame team that has been prone to 
.~ . 
I :40 to play in the first half, added Johnson. "We just finally made up mistakes and inconsistency, the 
further misery to the situation. our minds that we were going to remaining nine games will serve as \ ,·, "We were sort ofupset because of play and that's what we did." the only true tests. 
·. ( 
on the forward line, and Howe beat "The reason we did that," Grace After Michigan State coach
Soccer Game
all of the Spartan defensemen and explained, "was because as the George Perles went ultra­broke into the penalty box with the second half got started, we really conservative trying to protect a 20­ball. He was tripped from behind by showed our dominance, and when 17 lead and Spartan fans responded
continuedfrom page 16 continued/rom page 16 
a desperate defender, and the Irish things are going well, you don't want by booing the play selection, Moj· aggressively in the first few minutes were awarded a penalty kick. Szanto to change." "We were getting hurt on them siejenko came in to punt. of play, but it was Notre Dame's as­did the honors for Notre Dame, running to the outside," said defen­Mike Haywood, jumping over a sertiveness that paid off immedi· beating Zimmerman to the right sive coordinator Andy Christoff. "So, blocker, flipped his body into the ately. with the 18-yard shot. Unfortunately, Notre Dame was we brought (the outside lineback· path of the ball and tumbled into 
With only 2:59 gone from the forced to play the second half with­ers) to the line of scrimmage. Some Mojsiejenko in the process. Pat game clock, Rich Herdegen scored Notre Dame continued to play ag­out two of the players who started of the mistakes were a result of Ballage recovered the loose ball, and his fifth goal of the season to put the gressively, but the Spartans still did the game. Midfielder Mark Bidinger having seven sophomores on the Notre Dame had possession 14 yards Irish on the scoreboard. not quit. With only 6:30 remaining left the game with a separated field at once." away from paydirt. 
Mark Bidinger got the assist on the in regulation time, Sherin Elwy shoulder, and he will be out for the The defense welcomed the return It was all Pinkett from there. After 
goal when he crossed the ball from scored for Michigan State with an as­next month. Forward tri-captain ofRick DiBernardo, who had a team­two rushes around right end, he the endline just inside the left side of sist from Doug Landefeld. Rich Herdegen sat out most of the high eight tackles. DiBernardo, who scored the go-ahead touchdown the penalty area. Herdegen met the second period with a bruised hip. sat out last week's game with a wrist from five yards out. Carney added pass with his head just off the right After the standard 90 minutes had Herdegen, however, was able to play inj~ry, replaced Cedric Figaro and the point-after for the final margin. 
goal post and caught Michigan elapsed, the score still was knotted in yesterday's contest. played a big role in the improve­The Irish had to play with two State's goalkeeper, Paul Zimmer­at two, and the game went into two ment of the Irish defenst> against the freshmen receivers rotating with . man, out ofposition. 10-minute overtime periods. run. Milt Jackson because a hamstring 
.i The Irish goal did not take the The weekend action helped Notre problem kept Joe Howard on the wind out of the Spartans' sails, Neither team could score in the Dame boost its record to 5-0-1 this "We knew we had to put pressure sidelines and Alvin Miller went out however, and the Michigan State extra stanzas, but the Irish definitely season. The Irish now will be resting on Mojsiejenko," Faust stated. "We with a knee injury after gaining 13 
I •. players continued to test the Notre had their opportunities to do so. and preparing for two games next went after him every time and yards on an end around on the first Dame defense. When a hole in the With only 45 seconds left in the weekend, including a match at In­thought that we could get to him play of the game. Miller will be out defense finally appeared, the Spar­second overtime period, Zimmer­diana with the top-ranked Hoosiers. once, but we blocked two of them." for about four weeks. 
i . tans were there to tie the score at man was caught way out of the goal one. when he failed to gain possession of Forward Jim Gallina scored the the ball, and the Irish took over in goal, unassisted, at 25:09 of the first front ofthe goal. Tom Daley took the half. ball at the top of the penalty box and 
! ( Gallina got the goal as a result of a fired a shot at the Spartan goal, mistake on the part of the Irish where it was deflected by a Mic­defense. Steranka came out to play higan State defender. The ball hit the defense on Gallina, but he began to crossbar and bounced straight retreat into his goal when sweeper down, hitting the goal line. The Spar­Dominick Driano picked up the tans were able to clear the ball, and Spartan forward. Gallina still the game ended as a tie. managed to get off a shot, however, which went over Steranka's head Michigan State is the best team the before he had gotten back into the Irish have faced so far this season, goal. and Coach Dennis Grace said he was 
The first half continued as a fierce hoping Notre Dame could have battle from end to end, and neither come away with a victory. team could score again before the intermission. 
"A tie is just like a loss," Grace

When the second half began, the 
said. "It's not a win. ·when you play,Irish took control of play, and they there are three things that can hap­

had several excellent opportunities 
pen, and two of them are bad. The to score. 

only good thing that can come out ofForward John Fossella beat Zim­a game is a win." 

merman with a shot that narrowly missed the top right corner of the Grace was pleased by some of the goal after four minutes had elapsed things the Irish did in the game, in the second period. Twenty however. minutes later, Stuart MacDonald just "I thought we went at them at the missed the lower right corner. wingbacks very nicely," he said. "I 
Then, with 75:34 gone in the think our overall play was good." 


game, and the score still tied at one, One thing the Irish did differently 
Pat Ballage recovered the loose ball following ter ofSaturday's victory over Michigan State. The 
the Irish had a perfect opportunity. in Friday's game was to substitute 
Mike Haywood's blockedpunt in thefourth quar-block was one ofthe key plays in the game. 
Telk passed the ball to Joe Howe sparingly. 


Monday, September 17, 1984-page 15 
Tech. and Publicity
DARBY'S PLACE 
Positions Available For:
For Late Night 
~STUDY SNACKS 

CltOCOUTICOVERED PEPPERMINT 
PATTIES 
ktl~h'"• .. +f •o~~!Nl 


Student Players Organizational Meeting 
in the 

7:00pm Sept. 18 Little Theatre in La Fortune
BASEMENT of LA 
Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 
;urCKlE 

11115 fi{Y(NIN&, AM£RICA'5 
•. l.A5T NI&HT IN IITZ.AN77C. 
NfW STANlllliW ~ MIINUNe55 
CITY, 11 ,J()61UINT ST!PH£N 
8£UlN 1H£ fli<5T PIIY Of
IJIUif5 ~5 CI(OWN6P 
HIS IWGN WITH 1H£
1Hc NEW "MI5TCf? 
IRAPmONAI.-f3f?fAI<fA5T
11MtRICA ~. 
IN 8£P... ~, ,.,--,..t 




1"HE~t.1S ~OT Tb BE A 8ETIE.R WAY. 


The Daily Cross~ord 
42 Attention getter 9 Bank abbr. 

ACROSS 
43 Go under 10 Play 1 Judge's bench 
44 Bee conclave 

5 Disney 11 Took a bus
46 Lose strength 

character 12 Last word 
47 Fruit quaffs

10 Mild oath 13 Hardy girl 
48 Arabian chief 

14 Celebes ox 18 City in Algeria 
51 Deficit 19 Desert Fox 
55 Spring flower 

15 -Les Bains 23 Rickenbacker16 Eternal City 58 Field unit 24 Mangle17 Master of none 59 Whimper 25 Indian prince 20 Star 60 Orient 26 Expunge21 Auguries 61 Defendant in 27 Richard to
Rom a 

22 Steam engine friends
62 Exeter and man Andover: abbr. 28 Blacksmith
23 Madame 63 Sp. miss needBovary 29 Bulgaria's25 Forts capital28 Eden occupant 
DOWN 

30 More 29 In the dumps 1 -California competent32 Seed cover 2 Collections of 
31 Log

33 Improper sayings 33 To the point 34 Kimono sash 3 Night: comb. that 35 City north of St. form 
36 HuntingAugustine 4 Stage dance expedition

5 Is appropriate 

39 Inquire 37 Spoken
6 Stop, to Popeye

40 One of the 38 Letters Shaws 7 Extract 44 Takes as one's 41 Wharf 8 Dance in Dijon own 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

"No doubt about it, Ellington-we've mathematically expressed the purpose of the universe. Gad, how I love the thrill of scientific discovery!" 
45 Brazil's 51 N.Y. stadium 
neighbor 52 Armadillo 
46 Lap dogs 53 Main part 
47 In the lead 54 Ms. Kett 
48 Slightly open 56 Otis Birdsong's 
49 Aromatic org. 
spice 57 Warm concern 
50 Light color letters 
Friday's Solution 


© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 9/12/84 
Campus 
• 
3:30p.m.-Cpmputer Minicourse,JCL, First Ses· sion, (:ompu~ng Center/Math Building, Open to Pu lie, Free. 

•6 
p.m.-Meeting, Anyone Interested in Working on the Fall Festival, Sponsored by Student Acti • · ties Board. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m.-Social Concerns FUm, "Comiftg Home," Engineering Auditorium, Free. 

•
7 p.m. -Lecture, "Plants and Man in the Andes and the Neighboring Lowlands," Dr. Hardy Eschbaugh, Dept. of Botany, University of Miami , Carroll Hall-SMC. 

•7 
p.m.. FUm, "The Magician," Annenberg Auditorium, Monday Night Film Series I. 

•7:30 
p.m.. Lecture, "The Nature of Develop­ment: Orderly Sequence on Random Walk," Reuben Hill, University of Minnesota, Little Theatre of LaFortune, Sponsored by Depts. of Psy­chology and Sociology, Open to Public. 

•9 
p.m. -Fllm, "Los Olvidados," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Monday Night Film Se­ries II. 


TY Tonight 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
11 :00 .m. 11:30 p.m. !2:30a.m. 

16 M*A*S•H 22 Fam ly Feud 16 1V Bloopers & Practical jokes 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 16 NBC All-Star Hour 22 Kate & Allie 34 Child Sexual Abuse: What Your 
Children Should Know 22 Newhart 16 George Burns: How To Live To Be IOOSpecial 
22 Cagney & Lacey 
34 Great Pedormances 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Simon & Simon/McM Han 
34 Lyman H. Howe's H gh Class Mo ing Pictures 34 Movie · Casablanca 16 Late Night With David Letterman 16 All In The Family 
... 


Monday, September 17, 1984-page 16 
' \ 

~ 
) 
\ Irish score big comeback victory over Spartans 
r\ ~ 
By mERON ROBERTS touchdown on the very next play. increased aggressiveness of the of­Beuerlein again led the offense pressure every time he dropped Sports Writer Yarema threw to Ingram for the two­fensive and defensive lines and lack down the field, completing six back to pass. Mike Gann was point conversion, offsetting the ef­of turnovers allowed them to come passes on a 70-yard drive which credited with two quarterback sacks 
EAST LANSING, Mich.-The quick fect of Mike Griffin's block of a Ralf back. ended with Milt Jackson catching a in the second halffor the Irish. may get slower, but the large do not Mojsiejenko extra point attempt. Beuerlein, victimized in the first six-yard scoring strike. The Notre Dame defense made get smaller. It seemed as ifthe trouble had just half because of hurrying his passes, "Beuerlein did a super job in the some adjustments in the second half, 
, 
A bigger Notre Dame team wore begun for the Irish. On the first play uncorked a 40-yard pass to Pinkett second half," Faust said. "He did which, along with the weariness of ~ down the quicker players from Mic­of the next Notre Dame possession, for a touchdown halfway through have some problems in the first half, the Spartan offensive line, combined higan State in a come-from-behind Beuerlein checked off at the line of the third quarter, putting the Irish but any kid who can come back like to make it hard for Michigan State to r \ I 24-20 victory Saturday. scrimmage, but freshman receiver within striking distance of the Spar­he did is a winner." move the ball. r ., The Gerry Faust critics were Tim Browm failed to pick up the tans . Yarema, on the other hand, did 
see GAME, page 14

r detracted from their contention that audible and ran the wrong route. As After a Mojsiejenko field goal, not fare as well. He battled fierce r the Notre Dame head coach cannot a result, the errant pass landed in the adjust to an opponent being ahead of waitng arms of Michigan's Terry ~ his team, as the Spartans were ap­Lewis. parently rumi.ing away with the Mojsiejenko connected on a 24­~ game in the early going. yard field goal after a Spartan drive r "It was a real gutty performance stalled, and before the first quarter ~ '·\ for us," said an ecstastic Faust after ended, Michigan State had a 17-0 r '" the game. "I honestly felt (when the lead. 
I
~ '\.' 
Irish were down 1 7-3 at halftime) Allen Pinkett, who had four I 
, 
that we would win. I just told them carries for only six yards in the first 
r 
to keep composed and that we had quarter, yielded to Alonzo Jefferson I 
~ 
plenty of time, as long as we cut out in the second period. Jefferson 
~ 
the mistakes." responded by setting up a 42-yard 
~ 
The mistakes, which cost Notre John Carney field goal for the first 

~ 
Dame a victory against Purdue last Irish points ofthe game. Those three ~ week, began on the first Michigan points came after 20 minutes with ~ 
State drive. no points, making the score 17-3. 
r 
Michigan State quarterback Dave After an interception by Pat 

,r ~ 
Yarema found flanker Mark Ingram Ballage, Pinkett accounted for 26 behind cornerback Mike Haywood yards before fumbling at the Spartan over the middle for a 47-yard gain, two-yard line, while preparing to
r 
·~ 
only to have it called back because vault into the endzone. r of a Michigan State penalty. Three "We moved the ball well, but the
r ( 
plays later, Yarema connected with turnovers really hurt us," Faust said. 
r 
Ingram on the same play for a 50-"We decided to start playing football 
r
, yard gain. in the second half." 
Fullback Cart· Butler capped the The defensive unit did not fare r drive with a 1 5-yard touchdown much better in the first half than the run, pulling two Notre Dame offense. Poor tackling enabled But­
~ 
defenders the last two yards. ler to rack up 96 yards rushing by
~ 
Notre Dame exemplified the halftime, and mistakes in the second­r adage, "when it rains, it pours," con­ary led to the coaching staff juggling cerning the number of mistakes it the lineup often in order to find a
~ 
committed. successful combination. r Quanerback Steve Beuerlein Notre Dame came out of the r fumbled after a bad exchange be­locker room after halftime and
~ 
tween him and center Mike Kelley played like a different team, commit­
~ 
on the second play following the ting no turnovers and slowing down 
~ 
Michigan State kickoff. The Spartans the Michigan State offense, which
r 
wasted no time capitalizing on the racked up 209 yards in the first half. 
~ 
Irish miscue, as Butler scooted · As much as the mistakes kept the
~ 
around the left side for a 23-yard Irish out ofthe game in the first half, 
t 
~ ~ Allen Pinkett scored the winning toucbdoum on only 60 yards rushing for tbe game, but be bad 62 tbis play in tbefourth quarter ofSaturday's 24-20 yards receiving. Theron Roberts bas tbe complete
~ 
~ victory over Michigan S,tate. Pinkett was beld to game story above. ~ 

~ 
~ 
, r 
~ 
~· 
F 
~ 
~ ~ 
' 
~ .\ 
~.· 
' , r.:• 
~ 
; 
1\ 
; 
~ 
r 
~. 

ByPHILWOLF 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame soccer team remained undefeated this weekend with a win over Northwestern yes­terday and a tie with Michigan State on Friday. 
Yesterday afternoon at Northwes­tern, Notre Dame had to overcome not only the Northwestern team but also some very poor officiating for the win. The Irish were penalized 35 times, while the Wildcats were whistled only nine. One Irish player was ejected from the game with a red card because the official thought he said something which, in fact, a 
spectator  had  shouted  from  the  
stands.  
Despite the  disadvantageous  of­ 

ficiating, the Irish soundly defeated their opponents, 3-0. 
Junior Chris Telk put Notre Dame on the board with 25:40 gone in the first period. The ball was bouncing around in front ofthe Northwestern goal when Telk rammed it home for the score. 
In the second half, the Irish really began to dominate play, and sopho­more Pat Szanto put his team up by two goals. Freshman Steve Lowney started the scoring play with a cross into the Northwestern penalty area. The pass was deflected by Tom Daley, and Szanto finished it off at 
56:48 ofthe contest. 
Wins one, ties one 

Soccer team remains undefeated 
Only a minute and a half later, Steranka r~corded the shutout, as he Szanto scored again to put the game was forced to make only four saves. out of reach of the Wildcats. Daley Friday's game was played at a very again got the assist on the goal at fast pace from the start, Both teams 
58:16. were attacking the opponent's goal 
Notre Dame outshot the Wildcats, 14-6, and Irish netminder Mark see SOCCER, page 14 
Irish cross country team easily wi.ns five-team meet 
By NICK SCHRANTL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame cross country team surprised many people, includ­ing Irish head coach Joe Piane, by easily winning the five-team meet held at Notre Dame last Friday. The meet included teams from Northwestern, Ohio State, Missouri, and Western Michigan. 
Notre Dame won with a score of 30 points (lowest score wins), while Ohio State was far behind in second place with 63 points. Northwestern edged Western Michigan by a point, 75-76, for third place honors, while Missouri trailed with 87 points. 
The lead runner over the five mile course was Bob Mau of Northwes­tern in a fast time of 24:30.3. Kurt Kl.odnick of Ohio State ran to a second place finish with a time of 24:38.3. 
The key to the overwhelming Notre Dame victory was in having the third, fourth, and fifth place run­ners. The group ofMike Collins, Tim Cannon, and Bill Courtney ran in a pack the last halfofthe race until the finish, when <;:ollins edged in front for third place with a time of 
24:42.9. Cannon followed right be­hind for a fourth place time of 24:43.4, and Courtney finished fifth in 24:43.9. 
The other two Irish runners to count in the scoring for the meet were freshman Dan Garrett, who finished eighth in a time of 24:50.4 and senior Ed Willenbrink, who placed tenth in 25:04.1 
Rounding out the top ten finishers was Tim Phillips of Northwestern, who placed sixth, followed by Pigg of Missouri in seventh, and Welter of 
see VICTORY, page 13 


