
----------------------~-------.~------------------------­
Religious Bulletin -page 6 


VOL XIX, NO. 4 tht· imkpcndcnt .~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~t·n ing notrt dame and ~aint man·~ THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 1984 

Seniors denied football tickets on basis of ineligibility, junior status 
ByPATSAIN (the ticket office) said she was not ticket next to his friends in the Senior StaffReporter eligible." senior section. They (the ticket office) were Bobinski said there were 15 to 20 
Not all seniors are what they ap­"really rude" about the problem, students who were listed as juniors, pear to be-the Registrar's office says Sizelove said. but claimed to be seniors. "The some are still juniors. The error The ticket office would not hold ticket office workers are In no posi­surfaced yesterday when football football tickets for those seniors tion to interpret transcripts," said tickets were distributed to seniors. who were mistakenly listed as Bobinski. He said he did not see 
When some seniors asked for juniors, said Joan Avery, also a Walsh Finger's status as a senior listed on their tickets, they were told they seni<:ir. "Some will have to come his transcript. were "not eligible," because they back on Wednesday with the juniors "The students have to see the were "listed as a junior by the to get their tickets," Avery said. other side of the story," said Registrar's office," said Laura Kevin Finger, a senior in St. Ed­Bobinski. "We have to give out Sizelove, a Walsh senior. wards's Hall, said he stood in line Purdue game tickets, Purdue bus 
The problem was caused because from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., when he tickets, and season tickets. Each ap­the seniors were "short credit had to leave for a class. Finger said he plication must be checked for all hours," said Assistant Registrar gave his ID to a friend, who was three tickets." 
Beverly Fisette. If a senior's total unable to obtain a ticket for him be­The students are checked against credit hours fall below a certain cut­cause he "was listed as a junior." a list provided by the Registrar, said off point, said Fisette, they are given Finger said he went to the ticket Bobinski. "We used the most cur­
junior status by the computer. manager, Michael Bobinski, with a rent information available -the list transcript from the Registrar's office. was printed August 23." "We stood in line from 10 a.m. to Finger said he was told he had to get Students who are Incorrectly 
3:30 p.m.," said Sizelove. "Even a handwritten letter from the Dean, listed must get a letter In writing when one of my friends (Susan and come back the next day. Finger from the dean of their college, or the Hartzell, a Walsh senior) presented said he would not have to wait In Registrar's office in order to get a them with a valid (senior) ID, they line, but would be unable to get a ticket, said Bobinski. 

Hesburgh invites candidates to talk to Notre Dame students, faculty 
ByJOHN MENNELL since becoming University presi­vltatlon in 1976 discussed human Senior StaffReporter dent, Father Theodore Hesburgh, rights. 
C.S.C. sent telegrams to each of the Although the content was the 
Invitations have been sent to the candidates asking them to "visit the same in all four of the telegrams the 1984 presidential and vice presiden­University of Notre Dame before the heading varied from formal to per­tial candidates asking them to speak election and address the faculty and sonal the Associated Press reported. at Notre Dame. students on the moral issues of the The telegram sent to President 
As he has done every election year campaign." Ronald Reagan was addressed "Mr. "I suggest that they discuss the President," while the one to moral issues of the campaign," Hes­Geraldine Ferraro was adressed

Judicial Coordinator Zahn attacks 
burgh said Tuesday, "but I can't tell "Mrs. Ferraro." But to Vice President them what to talk about." In the past George Bush It was "Dear George," some candidates have discussed and to Walter Mondale It was, "Dear

OBUD, criticizes election handling 
moral issues while others have not. Fritz." Hesburgh would not comment on Hesburgh said he would beByJOSEPH MURPHY Obud as a complaint bureau. The would serve as a division of theJudi­which issues he wanted the candi­surprised If none of the candidates 
StaffReporter Judicial Council will be taking back cial Council and would be under the 
dates to discuss, saying he wanted to came to Notre Dame this election
the counting of the ballots." direction oftheJudical coordinator. 
let them decide for themselves year, although the last to accept his Student Body Judicial Coordina­Student Body President Rob Ber­BAACHUS, an acronym for Boost which issues are important. Jimmy invitation were Carter and Mondale tor Joe Zahn began the new school tino responded with a "flat no" to See ZAHN, pageS Carter, who accepted Hesburgh's in-in 1976. 
year by saying, "We're not going to Zahn's suggestion of a takeover of accept any baloney from the Admin­elections by the Judicial Council. \ \. .r Istration on the plans we're going to "That's already been settled for this implement for the benefit of the year," said Bertino. community." Henry Sienkiewicz, head of Obud, 
In an Interview last night, Zahn refused to comment directly on also attacked the Ombudsman Or­Zahn's remarks but said, "The issue ganization ao; "a disorganized group should be brought through the of 25." Zahn said he intended to proper channels of student govern­form a committee to renew the fight ment and not through Tbe Observer. for control of student elections Bertino said he did support the against the Ombudsman Organiza­creation of BACCHUS on campus tion which now has control over the which is a national organization student electoral process. sponsored by the Distilled Spirits 
Zahn said, "The National Om­Council of the United States. The budsman Organization clarifies Notre Dame BACCHUS organization 

Agents foil terrorists 
A.'i!ioclated Press Chandler, Immigration and Naturalization Service district direc­
DALLAS -Federal agents believe tor. they foiled a pair of terrorist plots lbe agency refused to release the against the Republican National names of the nine. Convention, including a plan for an "The Secret Service and/or the ultralight aircraft attack, by arresting FBI had information on the students nine Iranians and Palestine Libera­concerning threats against the con­tion Organization supporters, offi­vention and possible involvement cials said yesterday. with the PLO," Chandler said. 
'!be alkged plots never were "The Iranians were alleged to confirmed, officials said, but they have been involved in some plot in­said that threats had been made. volving an ultralight aircraft," he 
The nine were arrested before said. "We questioned these individ­Dc>tnocratic Vice Presidential candidate and during last week's GOP uals and determined they were out Geraldine Ferraro, right. points out someone in presidential nominating session and oftheir immigration status either be-the crowd at tbe American Federation of were all charged with violating their Govennent Employees National Convention to
See ATTACK, page 6 
immigration status, said Ronald AFG'E Hxecutive Vice President ]obn Sturdivatlf 

APPhOIO 

Tuesday afternoon. Ferraro bas been invited to speak at Notre Dame by University President Father Theodore Hesburgb, along with Walter MmuJale, Ronald Reagan, and George Busb.jobn Men nell's story above. 





The Observer ( l :sPS 59\1 2·~000) i' puhlish"d Monday through Friday and on home: fnothall Saturdays. ex<:ept during c:xam and \tacation pt..·riods. The Observer is puhlish"d hy th" stud.,ntsof lht:' l'nivcrsity of Notre Damt· and Saint Mary'!-~ Collc:gt·. ~uhscriptions may he purchased for ~2~ pn y"ar ( S I 5 p"r ,.,m.,st.,r) hy writing The Observer, 
P.O. Box Q. Notr" Dam.,. Indiana ~6556. 
The Observer is a rnt·mller ofThe As­sociated Press. All reproduction rights art' reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Design Assistant. . . . . . Lev Chapelsky Typesetter............. Kevin again News Editor .......... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor. . . . . . . . . . Mark Potter Sports Copy Editor. . . . . Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor. . Joe Murphy Viewpoint Layout... . . John Mennen ND Day Editor ...... Melinda Moore Ad Design ......... Suzanne LaCroix Photographer. . . . . . . . . Paul Kramer 
Complaints. 

Even in these relatively carefree days before homework has a chance to backlog and the drudgery of routine has begun, there are few smiles and plenty of gripes under the Dome. 
And there is no lack of materiaL 

Students are irritated by everything from a dry 
campus to incredible humidity (and the fact that it now 
costs 50 cents to cool off with a pop from a vending 
machine.) 

As usual, the dining halls are an easy target for critics. 
But this year in addition to tasteless food and endless 
lines, students are grumbling about the dining hall walls 
themselves. For those who live in Pangborn and seldom 
venture into that architectual wonder, the North 
Dining Hall, the two large dining areas in the hall have 
been divided into four smaller rooms. 

This seemingly innocuous change has attracted all sorts of criticism. Some say the new arrangement cuts down on table space in the already overcrowded hall. (Which, says Director of Notre Dame Food Services Bill Hickey, is untrue.) 
Others complain the partitions make them cramped and claustrop­hobic. Then there are those who claim their salad bar se­lection is now halved (although close observation would have revealed the pre-partition salad bars con­
tained duplicates of almost 
every item.) 
And, of course, die-hard scopers say the new walls limit their view. 

According to Bill Hickey, 
press their opinion in a director ofNotre Dame food civilized manner, the North 
services, the partitions (which are actually electronic doors) were dosed to make dining more intimate, less noisy, and to promote conversation rather than biscuit­throwing. 
There are the same number ofseats in the dining hall, but the tables have been rearranged so students can look out the windows while they dine, says Hickey. 
The doors, says Hickey, have always been present. Deb Garrard, former manager of marketing and nutri­tional services for Notre Dame Food Services, is begin­ning her first year as manager of the North dining hall. The change in leadership and the eagerness of both Hickey and Garrard to improve the atmosphere in the building prompted the closing ofthe doors. 
Closing the partitions is just one step toward Hickey's 
vision of a more intimate dining hall. Were funds 
available, he says he would replace the long, cafeteria­
style tables with round tables allowing "students to talk 
to each other"more easily. 



Squth Bend's Newest Night Club 


ND 
7465. Eddy 

Across from AVE. Farmer's Market 

Welcome Notre Dame & Saint Mary's Students 
Look your best on and off campus this year! Become part of the Shear Dimension crowd 
We offer the best in hair, skin and nail care and a 10" Student Discount as well 
Hair Designs for the aware 
WATCH FOR OUR MONTHLY SPECIALS 
Sept. -receive FREE a prof. curling iron with any complete perm 
HOURS Tues.-Wed.-Fri. 8:30 a.m.-6:30p.m. Thurs. 8:30 a.m.-8:30p.m. Sat. 8:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. 
PHONE 234-6767 
WALK INs ALWAYS WELCOME
10% discount not vali<:!on specials 

Dining Hall will soon return to its 'former glory.' Those 
who approve of the change are likewise advised to 
make their views known. 
Complaining about the alcohol policy is probably as futile as complaining about the weather. But although dining hall partitions may be a trivial issue, at least it is one:: area where student complaints may produce con­crete results. 
Correction 

Due to an editing error jupior Kevin Butterfield was incorrectly identified in a caption on page one of yesterday's paper. The Observer regrets the er­
ror. 


The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1984 -page 3 

Man arrested, charged in maiming of six dogs in Philadelphia suburb 
A.'l!lodated Press 
PHILADELPHIA · A man was ar­rested yesterday and charged with throwing a corrosive liquid on six dogs in his neighborhood, burning one "down to the bone," after a week-long series of maimings caused four of the animals to be killed. 
Charles V. Dukes, 20, a resident of the Mount Airy section where the pets were attacked, was arrested at Municipal Court when he appeared to anwscr unrelated charges of theft and carrying firearms. 
At least two others suspects, both 
juveniles, arc being sought, officials 
said. 
'Inc corrosive material was 
thrown on the dogs in their owners' 
back yards, burning four of the pets 
so severely they had to be killed and 
partially blinding one, said pollee In· 
spectorJoseph Stasnik. 
"He has a reputation of being an all-around criminal, waiting to come of age," Stao;nik said of Dukes. 
Dukes was charged with six counts of conspiracy and six counts of cruelty to animals, pollee said. "Inc cruelty counts are mis· demeanors, carrying a maximum penalty of a S5,000 fine and two years in prison on each count, said Elaine Newton, spokeswoman for the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 
Stao;nik said reports from wit· ncsses led to the arrest. The SPCA had offered a S 1,000 reward after the attacks were discovered Aug. 21. 
Authorities are awaiting autopsy results to determine what the cor· rosive substance was, but Stasnik said he suspects it was something like a commercially available drain cleaner. 
One of the dogs that had to be destroyed was Troubles, a pit bull terrier belonging to Sharllta Stivender, 17, and her family. Troubles, who was 27 months old, had been put In the Stivenders' back yard to keep cool, Miss Stivender said. 
"We first noticed he was sick a few days ago. My brother heard him making unusual noises," she said. "Then the hair started coming off on his back. It made you sick just to look at it." 
Troubles was killed Tuesday at the SPCA shelter. Sam McClain ofthe SPCA said the dog had been burneti "down to the bone." 
"It's just pitiful, doing that to these dogs," Miss Stivender said. "And the dogs didn't do anything to them." 
James Street's dog also had to be killed. He noticed Saturday morning that Abdul, his Doberman pinscher, wouldn't eat. 
"Sunday, he got worse, and Mon­day, I took him to the hospital," Street said. "I couldn't get close to him, because it made me sick." 
At Fairmount Veterinary Hospital, veterinarians said Street's dog had burns over about 40 percent of its body. 
Although police received about 20 calls about attacks on dogs only six could be documented, said Ms. Newton. 
"We were informed that pollee had received other calls about animals being hit by acid, but we didn't see the animals," she said. "We would need to see some proof that other dogs were hit." 
"I personally believe the guy who did this is a sick person," said Stasnik. "I guess it was just a matter of time before he got around to humans." 

Fires rage in the forests some 15 miles north of that time, the fires have blackened 150,000 acres Helena, Montana, asfirefightersfrom seven dif­offorests and driven hundreds ofpeoplefrom ferent states have been called out to battle the their homes. blaze which has been afire since Sunday. Since 
Dozens of fires continue to blaze in Montana, hundreds driven away 
Associated Press 
HELENA, Mont. -Bolstered by 5,000 firefighters from at least seven states, diminished winds and cooler temperatures, officials unleashed large-scale air attacks yesterday against dozens of fires that have blackened 150,000 acres of forests and rangeland and driven hundreds from their homes. 
For the first time since most ofthe fires broke out Sunday, officials spoke of possible containment of some ofthe blazes. 
The reinforceme~. aided by 
slackening winds and cooler tem­
peratures Tuesday night, held 'most 
of the fires to smaller gains Wednes­
day than earlier in the week, when 
EVEN STRAIGHTliS CAN'T HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION. 
Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. But Army ROTC can help-two ways! 
First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. 
But even if you're not a scholarship recipient, ROTC can still help with financial assis~ tance~upto$1,000 
a year for your last two years in the program. 
For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science. 
ARMY ROTC. 
BEAUlOU CAM BE. 

CALL: LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman at 239-6264 
they were fanned by powerful 
winds. 
But forecasters said the lull in the 
winds was not expected to last. 
The 5,000 firefighters on the lines Wednesday were being supported by 42 air tankers and 21 helicopters spraying fire retardant chemicals, said Dick Guth, a Forest Service in· formation officer in Missoula. 
"We really anticipate increasing the air show today," Guth said. 
The winds that fanned the fires earlier in the week also had grounded the air support in most areas. 
President Reagan declared three of the biggest fires disaster areas Tuesday, qualifying the state for federal aid to fight them. The designations went to the Hawk Creek fire, 75,000 acres between Billings and Roundup; the North Hill fire, 22,140 acres north of Helena, and the Houghton Creek fire near Ubby, 10,900 acres. 
"We've got new crews from all over the West," said Dorothy Terry at the Interagency Fire Dispatch Center in Helena. She said they came from at least seven states -Colorado New Mexico, California, Utah, Oregon, Washington and Idaho. 
"We're in good shape as far as re­sources, and we have adequate man­power," said Department of State Lands spokesman Don Kendall. "Weather is still the deciding fac­tor." 
He said lines might be completed around the fire late Wednesday "with a little luck." 
"That's containment," Kendall stressed. "Control is several days away on something this size." Con­tainment Is when firefighters prevent the fire from spreading, con· trol is when they start putting it out. 
Aerial infrared measurements showed the North HIJI fire near Helena expanded by about 5,000 acres Tuesday night. 
"Our major concern is north of Helena," said Roger Bergmeier of the l.i.S. Forest Sevice. "The potential there is tremendous. There are houses all along the (Missouri) river." 
lnat fire also burned several miles 
into the Gates of the Mountains Wil­
derness area. 

Khadafy accuses U·.S. of plans to murder him 
Associated Press 
TRIPOU, Ubya Moammar Khadafy called the United States an annihilator of races yesterday and said it has even tried to kill him with poison and "electronic equipment." 
The 42-year·old Libyan leader made the charges during a brief speech to delegates from around the world who are in town to help com­memorate the 15th anniversary of the coup that brought Khadafy to power on Sept. l, 1969. 
Khadafy, wearing a dark green safari-like suit and using reading glasses, began the speech describing the efforts made by his revolution to turn the yellow desert ofhis country 
OUTREACH 
The IRS offers group tax return preparation, called Outreach. In local communities during normal working hours, after hours. or on wr-t-kt-nds at various community locations such as schools. libraries, or other public or business locations when• volunteer pro~ram services /.¥."'-~"-' are not available. Call your local IHS office for more Information about Outreach. 
into a green garden. Green Is the color oflslam and of his revolution. 
"But the enemies of the color green, of freedom and life, ... headed by enemy of humanity, the mur­derer of peoples and annihilator of races, the United States ... is working day and night to liquidate the Arab nation," he said in Arabic. 
The radical Arab leader accused 
the United States oftrying to destroy 
American Indians, black nations, 
Palestinians and the Lebanese. 
He said the United States has sent "terrorists and ao;sao;sination teams, as you have heard, under the instruc­tions of the Central Intelligence Agency lO freely move to get rid of the leadership of this revolution." 
He gave no specifics but ap· parently referred to a May Hattack In Tripoli aimed at him. He previously accused the fundamentalist Moslem Brotherhood of making the attack with American aid. 
Khadafy and I 1 other junior offi. cers seized power in a bloodless coup when King ldris was out of the country. He ha~ transformed this former Italian colony Into a socialist stronghold where education and medicine are free. 



The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1984 -page 4 



Konrad Kujau displays hisforged Hitler diaries to reporters gathered at Hamburg's civil court bouse yesterday, where be and former Stern diaries, originally proclaimed authentic by experts, were later provedfake. Kujau is flanked by his lawyer, Kurt Groenewold. 

Begin joins Notre Dame faculty, ends 12-year career in parliament 
ByAMY STEPHAN Critics warn it could downgrade the Canadian studies and policy-making Assistant News Editor nation's medical care and cause in the public and private sector. some doctors to leave the country. 
Monique Begin, Minister of Na­Although Begin's career has been Begin was elected to Parliament tional Health and ·welfare under in the public rather than academic in 1972, one of the first two women Canadian Prime Minister Pierre sector, Dean of the College of Arts elected from Quebec. In 1973 she Trudeau, joins the Notre Dame fac­and Letters Michael Loux says her was cochairman of the Canadian ulty this fall thus ending a 12-year appointment is "not at all uncom­Liberal Party's national convention, career in Parliament. mon. We want strong people who and became a delegate to the United 
She leaves politics after success­have held important roles in public Nations the same year. She was ap­fully sponsoring the controversial life to offer insights...only gained pointed Canadian Minister of Na­Canada Health Act, which penalizes from experience." tional Revenue in 1976, and provinces for allowing extra billings Begin will spend this semester in Minister of National Health and outside the Medicare framework. 'independent study and research as Welfare a year later. 
Proponents claim this legislation she steps out ofpublic life in Canada, Begin will hold the G. Shaffer protects the sick and disadvantaged said Loux. During the spring semes­Professorship in Arts and Letters. from the threat of fees imposed ter she will teach courses on topics Provost Timothy O'Meara made the outside the Medicare framework. which might include themes in one-year appointment. 
Boy commits suicide to help out his family 
Associated Press 

MARINA, Calif. -Ashocked com­munity sent food and money yester­day to the Army family of a 13-year-old boy who hanged himself after telling his mother, "Ifthere was one less mouth to feed, things would be better." 
The death of Danny Holley, who collected cans for a penny apiece to help buy food for his sister and two brothers, touched thousands of families at Fort Ord and brought hundreds ofsympathy calls. 
The troubles of the Holley family 
were not much different than those 
of many other Army families, said 
Cynthia High of the Army Emer­
gency Relief office, who had worked 
with Jennifer Holley, Danny's mot­
her. 

The family of Army E-5 johnnie Holley, stationed until next year in South Korea, had moved in June from West Germany to Fort Ord, IOO miles south of San Francisco, and was beset by bureaucratic prob­
lems. 

Promised housing was un­available, funds from their bank account were held up in transfer and their car hadn't arrived, said Ms. High, who began helping the Hol­leys july 11. 
"The army was providing services as much as possible," she said. "There are many, many cases of families who have financial troubles when they arrive at a new post." 
Mrs. Holley had received an interest-free loan of $1,300 from the relief office, emergency food supplies and assistance from an el­derly volunte_er in a Foster 
Grandmothers program. Still, it was 
difficult for the family to cope, and 
Danny took it very hard. 

"He didn't know anyone here," 
Mrs. Holley said, her eyes red from 
crying, ·as she sat in her kitchen. 
"And we couldn't go anywhere. Mrs. 
High gave us a little book ofbus tick­
ets that I'd use when I had to go to 
the doctor or something like that, 
but when they ran out, there was 
nothing. We just stayed home. 

"It was hard for him to understand why this was happening to us. guess he just didn't have the pa­tience." 
Danny used to roam the neighbor­hood collecting cans, which he sold for a penny apiece to the super­market. Neighbors showed compas­sion and saved their cans for him. Sometimes he gathered enough to bring home nine dollars. 
The money helped buy food for .his sister Erin, 4, and brothers Johnnie, 8, and Christopher, 2. Mrs. 
Holley said the children often went 
to bed hungry. 

She called Danny "a very respon­
sible child; he was so good-natured. 
He used to get up in the morning and 
make me a cup of tea and bring it to 
me in bed. He would write me little 
letters. He was a good boy." 

But several times, in moments of 
despondency, Danny would tell his 
mother, "Ifthere was one less mouth 
to feed, things would be better," 
Mrs. Holley told Ms. High. 

On Monday morning, Danny hanged himself in the backyard of the house his mother had rented. His brother Johnnie found him and called his mother, who cut him down and called an ambulance. An hour later, Danny was pronounced dead at the hospital. 

Prices Good Thru September 1, 1984 
Prices Good at South Bend Ave. Store ONLY
GLAD 



YOU'RE 

Miller BEER $699 
LP
BACK!! 

Miller Lite $799 
LP200 
WINE 
SunCoun~ 
Wine Cooler 
4PK 
Martini & Rossi Asti Spumante
750ML 
CarloRossi 
4L 
California Wine Cooler 
4PK 

Pabst 
$699
Reg. or Light
LP 
Hamms Reg or Light 

LP
$2'9 
QUARTS 

Old Milwaukee $749
$799 

$999
Budweiser 
$4" KEGS 
Budweiser 

$3199 
112 BBL
$299 
Michelob 

$3699 
112 BBL 

LIQUOR 
Popov Vodka 
1.75 L 

BacardiRum 
1.75 L 

Glenmore Gin 
1.75L 

Beam Blend 
1.75L 

J &B Scotch 
1.75L 

Dewars Scotch 
750ML 
Kahlua 
750ML 

We accept checks with student ID 
$699 $1099 
$799 $899 $1699 $899 $899 

The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1984 -page 5 
Saint Mary's gets some new faces in various College departments 
and Mary Esther McKelly, admission counselor. 
There are new faces in every aca­demic department at Saint Mary's this year. Mark Towner will be the College's visiting artist-In-residence . Towner holds a M.F.A from the Cranbrook Academy of Art. Maria A. Cusumano also comes from the Cranbrook Academy ofArt as a visit­ing Instructor. · 
Pam Goslar, Susan Pattilli and Mi­chael Robinson all join the Department of Business Administra­tion and Economics. Another assis­tant visiting professor, Rodney C. Luhn, will teach In the Department 
of Chemistry/Physics this year. 
Craig Hosterman will begin full­time work at Saint Mary's this year. Hosterman was previously a part­time assistant professor in the Com­munication and Theater Department. In the Education De­
partment, Assistant Professors Janice Grow and Mary Ann Traxler join the staff. 
Beginning this year in the English Department are six new instructors. Eileen Bender, Laura Haigwood, Karen Heisler, Phyllis Hensley Moore, and Joyce A. Sopko will be staff lecturers, and Douglas Thorpe will be a new assistant professor. 
James C. Murphy will be a visiting government instructor. At the De­partment of Mathematics, Anne E. Brown and Karen Barker join the staff. 
Additions to the Department of Nursing are Cynthia Danford, Ella S . Harmeyer, Valerie Ann Lincoln, Ann McSorley, Maureen Mullen, Mar­garet Overbeck, Corinne Wales and 
Karen McElroy Wlans. 
New members of the Department of Modern Languages are Renee Kingcaid and Patrick Martin, while Sophia K. Jordan joins the Philoso­phy Department as a lecturer. 
Nancy L. Menk replaces Raymond Sprague as director of the choral groups at Saint Mary's. Menk will also be an instructor in the Music Department. 
Reverend David }. Murphy and Rita Burns arc new staff members of the Department of Rdiglous Studies. Joining the Department of Sociol­ogy, Anthropology and Social Work is David Pilgrim, as an assistant pro­fessor. 
Zahn 
continuedfrom page I 
Alcohol Consciousness Concerning The Health of University Students, will attempt to teach people 10 drink responsibly, according to Zahn. BAACHUS has the support ofthe Ad­ministration and will receive close to J500 from the unversity to cover operating expenses. 
Zahn said, "I can't stress enough that this is not an anti-alcohol or­ganization. He said BACCHUS would have an alcohol awareness week not to discourage drinking, but to en­courage responsible drinking. BAC­CHUS also will offer breathalizer tests at the Senior Bar, said Zahn. 
WELCOME BACK Notre Dame Students 
from 
Beacon Bowl 


.I,.f 
&'l'l 
. 
r·~····~G$ia;~

~ +t -~1 ~-.... 


AP Photo
Maybe this time 
The space shuttle Discovery sits on the 39A launch pad at sundown, as NASA officialsbaddecided to delay its maiden voyage for the third time Tuesday night. The new launch date bad been set 
for this morning 
By lliERESA GUARINO 
AssistantNews Editor 
Almost every department at Saint Mary's is experiencing personnel changes this year, as approximately 4 3 new faculty and administrative members join the College staff. 

Richard I. Chlebek, a veteran of the F.B.I. National Academy and the South Bend Police Academy, replaces Anthony Kovatch as direc­tor of security. Chlebek was a mem­ber of the South Bend police force for 23 years before coming to Saint Mary's. He rose from patrolman to the rank of captain of the record bureau, where he was in charge of data processing, among other duties. 
Replacing Erin Murphy Lorenz as director of athletics and recreation isJo-Ann Nester. Nester is a graduate of Temple University and spent the last ten years teaching and coaching in Virginia. 
Filling the vacancy left by Tom Reid, Mary ). Feeley joins the Col­lege staff as director ofCampus Mini­stry. Feeley holds a M.S. from Indiana University-Bloomington, and is pres­ently a Ph.D candidate at Saint Mary of the Lake Seminary. She was previ­


If you're in Science or Engineering, chances are your classes include Calculus, Physics, or Chemistry. Engineering Statics, or Dynamics. You're running up against some tough calcula­tions, with statistics problems, hyperbolics, and logs. The HP-llC calculator helps you breeze through those problems with a few simple keystrokes. 
Need to simplify problems that are even more complex? The HP-41CV gives you 128 built-in functions-and the HP-41CX over 200--to sim­plify your long homework assignments. Use up to 6,437 bytes of memory to save the programs and formulas you use often. And there are thou­sands of software programs, so you don't have to start from scratch next term. 

If you're in Business or Finance, you're proba­bly taking Accounting, Statistical Methods, Finance, and Investment Analysis. Classes loaded with tedious calculations. End the pencil­and-paper drudgery with the HP-12C. The most powerful decision-maker on the market! Dedi­cated keys make time value of money calculations, amortization, Net Present Value (NPV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), a!)d statis­tics solutions as simple as a single keystroke. And it's easy to change values or correct mistakes without reentering your entire problem. 
Hewlett-Packard calculators. They help you work smart this term. And next term. And even later on the job. Get your HP today from your local HP dealer. 
For the location of the dealer nearest you, call TOLL FREE 1-800-FOR-HPPC. 
Ff/~ HEWLETT ~~PACKARD 
ously an Assistant Professor of The­ology at St. Francis Seminary. 
Gloria Chelminiak, a graduate of the Memorial Hospital School of Nursing, has been appointed direc­tor of health services. Chelminiak was previously assistant director of health services at Saint Mary's for seven years. Colleen I. Hart, a graduate ofthe St. Joseph's School of Nursing, takes Chelminiak's old po­sition. 
Several major changes have been made in the Residence Life staff, fol­lowing. the departure of residence hall directors Michelle Valley and Lisa Schulte. Former LeMans Hall Director Peggy Hayes has moved to Holy Cross Hall. Replacing Hayes in LeMans is Susan Glore, a former residence camp director in York, PA. Glore holds a B.A. from Ship­pensburg State College. Heading the McCandless Hall staff is Nan Loy, former graduate counselor at Ship­
pensburg University, where she graduated with a M.S. 
Other new members of the ad­ministrative staff Include Sharon L. Cramer, director of housekeeping, Mark S. Kubacki, superintendent of grounds, Cheryl A. Meyerhofer, co­ordinator of telecomminications, 


The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1984 -page 6 
Religious publication revived by Ministry 
dent,and later, the Cardinal arch­
Special to The Observer 
bishop of Philadelphia. Father Frank The Notre Dame Religious Gartland, C.S.C., edited the Bulletin Bulletin, a famous campus newslet­in the late 1930's, when a copy was ter described by a former editor as slipped under every student's door. "the most palatable one-a-day spiri­Gartland said, "Informally, it was tual vitamin ever compounded for referred to as a 'letter from God' and college students," has been revived many a note home to a girlfriend was as a publication of the Office of Uni­scrawled on its blank backside. Soon versity Ministry. other colleges and nearly every TheBulletin, a weekly in its resur­Catholic high school in the country rected form, wUl be distributed to wanted a copy. By the time I in­

t 
students at Sunday Masses in Sacred herited it from Father John 

r 
Heart Church and posted in aU 26 of Cavanaugh (later Notre Dame's r the University's residence halls. fourteenth president), in February, r 1938, it had a circulation of 18,000. r Between 1921 and 1965, the Much quoted, it grew into a national 
newsletter was a prominent feature apostolate." of Notre Dame student life. Its first The first issue of the new r appearance was as a daily single­"Bulletin" contains a schedule of
r 
sheet mimeographed message from campus liturgies and confessions, a 

r 
APPbOtO 
the office of Father John O'Hara, brief essay welcoming the Univer­the federal government, raises her bands to
r Making a point
C.S.C. O'Hara was Notre Dame's sity's incoming freshmen, and a quiz emphasize a point at a press conference Tuesday 
~ 
prefect of religion before becoming on Catholic doctrine regarding Citizens Party presidential nominee Sonia in Los Angeles. She called the conference to r 
the University's twelfth presi-Mary, the mother ofJesus. johnson, the first alternative candidate in U.S. discuss her exclusion from presidential debatesr history to receive primary matching funds from and issues.
r 
f 
However, he said, agents "never Newman, who was in charge of con­
" r Foreign deficit soars Attack confirmed or substantiated anything vention security for the Dallas 
r in the investigation" and "it was sub­police, said the investigation
, 
rates don't matter any more. That continuedfrom page 1 stantially resolved . . . by the last focused on "a loosely organized r has turned out to be nonsense," said day" ofthe convention. group offoreign nationals." 
WASHINGTON -In a sobering Michael Evans, head of his own cause they were working or had FBI special Agent U.H. Specht batch of new economic signals, the private forecasting firm. "All of the overstayed their (student) visas." declined to comment Wednesday. Newman said threats were made government said yesterday that its components in the index were Federal investigators didn't elabo­"We didn't make any arrests and "against the president indirectly and main gauge of future economic down because of high interest rate on what type of attack they beyond that, I can't give you any against the convention and health sank for a second straight rates." thought might be conducted with comment. In that area of our work, convention-related activities di­month in July while the nation's Evans predicted the slowing of the aircraft, most ofwhich have tiny we can't make much comment." rectly," and were checked out foreign trade deficit soared to an all­growth in coming months would motors and wings of nylon fabric Deputy Police Chief William thoroughly. time record. send interest rates lower and this and do not require pilots' licenses. 
The 0.8 percent drop in the Index would keep recovery Nevertheless, sharpshooters were ***********************************'
help the of Leading Economic Indicators fol­moving along, although at about half assigned to watch the airspace
f i ND/SMC Student Players :
lowed an even sharper 1.3 percent the pace turned in during the first around the convention center for June decline. It marked the first halfof the year. suspicious aircraft, federal officials 
: Fall Musical Production a
back-to-back setbacks in the The White House was also opti-said. forecasting gauge since the depths mistic that interest rates wUl be Chandler said he did not have a ofthe recession 2% years ago. heading lower. "The economy breakdown of how many were from 
i swesrt~ ~ 
The Reagan administration said remains strong and growing for the what Middle Eastern country, "but I 
• ~ _,_. ~ 0 * 
the declines were no cause for con­foreseeable future," said deputy can tell you they were a combina­cern but merely an indication that press secretary Larry Speakes, call-tion of Iranians, Jordanians and 
: .~~ . : 
the economy was slowing to a more ing the drop in the leading in-Syrians." 
: r,e Uemon 8at'ber Of Ft.eer STf<.eeT :
sustainable rate of growth. Private dicators a signal of moderating Officials would not specify the economists agreed. growth. other plot, other than to say it in­
: November 1, 2, 3, 4 : 
"No one should conclude the eco­"The moderation we believe volved the non-Iranians. 
-tc O'Laughlin Auditorium * 
nomy is fizzling out," said Allen should be helpful in diminishing All nine were released on bond Sinai, chief economist at Shearson pressure on interest rates," he said. after the convention and will face • * 
~ 



: OPEN AUDffiONS 
-tc All ND/SMC Students * -tc Thursday Aug. 30 * : Washington Hall 7:30p.m. : 
~*********************************** 
Pilot 



The Navy will train you! 
Must be a qualified college graduate or be within 18 months of graduation, under age 29 (30 for veterans) 
There are other Navy career opportunities available in: 
• 
Systems Inventory Management 

• 
Acquisition Contracting 

• 
Computer Systems 

• 
Financial Management 

• 
Nuclear Engineering 

• 
Flight Surgeon 





Starting salary $17,500 plus medical benefits, travel, and rapid advancement. FOR MORE INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL: Navy Officer Programs at 
1-800-382-9782 
Navy representative on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement Office 
000000000000000000000000000000000 
Lehman-American Express. "The two months of declines do not sug­gest a recession, but they do suggest a decided slowing in growth." 
On the trade front, analysts were less optimistic. The Commerce De­partment said the deficit hit S14.1 billion in July as a 26.2 percent surge in imports swamped the best showing for exports in nearly three years. 
The deficit for the first seven months of 1984 totals S73.8 billion, already above the 169.4 billion record set in 1983. Analysts are predicting the deficit this year could easily reach 1130 billion despite the clamor from a variety of American industries for protection from: foreign competition. 

BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT/GMAT 
• 
TEST-N-TAPE® LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET CLASSES STARTING 


SEPTEMBER 2 
I 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272·4135 
TheJuly import surge was led by a 

MHHIIIIIHIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHtHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIII
sharp upswing in shipments of Japanese autos, oil, clothing, iron i 
and steel products, telecommunica­
tions equipment and agricultural 
commodities. 

I VAN LINES 
The flood of imports over­powered a 10.3 percent rise in ex­

·I Weekend Bus Service 
ports as U.S. sales overseas reached 
119.4 billion, their highest level I since September 1981. 
In another report yesterday, the government said sales ofnew single­
I 
family homes were flat in July at a 


. Van Lines will take you off-campus to 
seasonally adjusted annual rate of 

University Park Mall 
630,000 units. This represented an 

Town & Country Mall 
11.5 percent drop from the 

and various restaurants 
February peak as the housing indus­
on
try continued to be battered by 
rising mortgage interest rates. 

· Friday and Saturday evenings Housing officials said they expected sales would drop further in coming months. Analysts also blamed much of the June and July declines in the index 
1Departs from Main-Circle -Grotto -SMC Holy Cross hourly of leading indicators on rising inter­
1 from 6 p.m_ Friday and 4 p.m. Saturday. 50' round trip-pay 
est rates. 
Jas you get on the bus. 
"All during the first half ofthe year when we had super-heated growth, 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
a lot of people were saying interest 




View~_o_i_n__t_________
Th_ur-sd-ay,....Au_gu_st-30.._,l-98_4__..pa-ge-7 
I R~f\LI ZL $SO BILLION 
... MLANS 11. L~~S

SOUNDS LIKt A Bl6 lNCR(ASt 
NufS AND SOLTS TO
IN OUI\ BUOof.T. 
~ASTEN OVA WtAPONS

IWT RtMlMB~R. lV£RY 61LLION 
ToGtTU£R WIT~.
you CHop Off Of T~AT... 

No good deed is a small deed 
I had a farewell dinner last Thursday with my parents at The Morris Inn, and like any well-mannered young man, I Immediately tried to find out what was happening at the tables around ours. 
That night I was lucky, I had the choice be­tween straining my ears to overhear this old man chattering about his days as a Notre 
Joseph Murphy 
Wishful thinking 
Dame student and straining my eyes staring at this pretty blonde young lady across the res­taurant. Unfortunately, the girl left before I even got my salad, so I had no choice but to digest what this aging alumnus was muttering. 
To my surprise, this "old-timer" was not giving a play-by-play account of a 194 3 foot­ball game, but was talking instead about some minute expet1ence he and a buddy had with a rector. All I heard was something about run­ning away from the priest. My reporter's in­stinct told me to ask him to speak-up or move my table closer to his, but my doctrine of eti­quette prevented me from such a bold stroke. 
By the time my steak arrived, I fully ex­pected to be hearing the names of Knute Rockne and George Gipp being tossed around as though this old man, like all alumni, was a personal friend. 
I even decided against munching on the crackers which our waitress placed at our table:, so I could prove my theory that all alumni consider the football stadium the hub of the campus. Instead I heard the half-bald gentleman spit-out story after story about his daily life at Notre Dame. Behind the sagging eye lids was the fervor of a student full of ad­venture and camaraderie. To me, these stories were neither funny nor significant. To him, these memories were made ofgold. 
I recounted this story only because it started me thinking about my first year here and the memories of the best year of my life. Uke the old man, I too value the little details the most. I thought of my first day and of the two sophomores who rearranged my room so I could tour the campus. I remember the guy down the hall who stayed-up all night typing 
my English paper, so I could study for a test. And I remember the kindness of my teachers and The Freshman Year of Studies when my grandma died unexpectedly. It was not the classes or the games, but the small acts ofcon­cern which sustained me. These actions played-out in a small dorm room instead of a huge stadium mean everything to me; and nothing to you. 
My point is as you begin a new year at Notre Dame promise yourself to care enough to do the little things for others for which no one will pat you on the back. No good deed is a small deed. Let your conscience be your cheering section. 
In school, be competitive enough to reach your potential, but compassionate enough to help others reach theirs. Remember always the symbol of Notre Dame may be the "Dome," but the spirit of Notre Dame is the Grotto, where each candle reflects not merely a prayer, but a light of compassion for "'ll to witness. 
Whatever the future policies ofNotre Dame 
may be, I will never denounce the principles 
upon which this University was founded. I 
know of no better words to set the tone for 
this year than those ofChristian D. Larson who 
wrote: 

Promise yourself to be so strong that nothing can disturb your peace ofmind. To talk health, happiness, and prosperity to every person you meet. To make all your friends feel that there ts something tn them. To look at the sunny stde ofeverything and make your optimism come true. To thtnk only ofthe best, to work onlyfor the best and expect or.ly the best. To be just as enthustastic about the success of others as 
you are about your own. To forget the mtstakes of the past and press on to the greater achievements ofthe futurf!. To wear a cheerful countenance at all times and gtve every livtng creature y()U .meet a smile. To give so much time to the improvements of yourself that you have no time to crltize others. To be too large for worry, too noble for anger, too strong for fear and too happy 
to permit the presence oftrouble. 

Oh, I'd like to thank my parents and the people at The Morris Inn for a delicious dinner. 
The Observer~~, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of the administration of either mstitution. The news is reported as accurately and as obJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a ma1or1ty of the Editorial Board. Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the cornmun1ty. and the lree expreSSIOn of vary1ng opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Will success spoil Ronald Reagan? 
I offer the great anomaly ofour presidential time. Here is the man who took a minority party, lashed to the Republican corpses of the Barry Goldwater 1964 disaster and the Rich­ard Nixon 1974 Watergate resignation, and got himself elected with it by a landslide, and staged a "Reagan revolution" by the un-
Max Lerner 

The Lerner column 
likeliest revolutionary in the history of the presidency, and is now the odds-on favorite for a second term. 
And here we are, the Greek chorus of com­mentators, lamenting or rejoicing or just puz­zling over his convention triumph and the quantum lead he starts the campaign with, and peering into the next four years to prophesize the kind ofsecond term he will have. 
Note that neither Eisenhower nor Nixon, both elected twice, was an ideological in­novator as Reagan is -which makes the Reagan phenomenon more striking. 
Barry Goldwater, the first ofthis breed, was a political man and senator, and he failed dis­mally 20 years ago. Reagan by contrast came out of nowhere -a sports announcer, actor, corporate emcee at rubber chicken lunchegns. Yet he took the Ideological ball Goldwater had fumbled and won a governor­ship, then a pre!'tidency and now wants to win the big one -as a Republican dynasty founder, handing down an ideological heritage for decades, as did Franklin Roosevelt. 
Most president watchers are asking what he can do in a second term after a first-term suc­cess which even the Democrats don't make too much effort to deny, in the privacy oftheir homes and staff meetings. 
Second terms turn out notoriously to be an­ticlimaxes. They don't yield legislative bonanzas as some first terms do, and they of­ten lead to a miscalculated overkill, as with 
1-larold ~ Fran · 


FOR's party purge effort and Supreme Court packing plan, or to a string of international mishaps as with Ike's U-2 messup and his failed Paris summit. 
And always they are plagued by a recur­rence of the lame-duck disease, with a presi­dent who has lost his capacity to threaten a visitation of hell and high water on any recal­citrant follower. 
We have been told on all sides by the busy convention anchormen and commentators that Reagan must choose between "Ideology" and "pragmatism." But this Is the dreariest either-or fallacy. Reagan mocked it by his con­duct in his first term when he steered clear of either-or and and embraced both. 
There isn't any core quarrel, only one oftac­
tics, between Reagan and the· "theological" 
militants of the New Right, including the 
Southern "C-Span boys" and the Dolan­
Viguerie NCPAC and mail-order baronies and 
fiddoms, and the whole Dallas scene of right 
radical chic. Reagan's heart is with them just 
as his head is with the Baker-Deaver-Dorman 
pragmatists who have run his White House 
staff and are running his campaign somehow 
with only manageable blunders thus far. 

The way I read the entrails is something I will wager the guest house on, if not the estate. Reagan and his evangelicals and his in­tellectual Beachhead Boys will strike a pact which will let him work with his pragmatists to win the election. But then Reagan will strike a pact with his Oval Office pragmatists to let him deepen and thus broaden his appeal in his second term, In order to leave a heritage which his successors in 1988, 1992 and there­after can use for continuing the Reagan Revo­lution. 
It may or may not work. I rather imagine it may come a cropper earlier than Reagan's militants think, for reasons still to be ex­plored. But it is, I suspect, the secret life myth ofthis curiously underestimated man who has upset all the bets but played for lonely and high stakes in history. 
(C) 1984 Los Angeles Times Syndicate 


Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to the columns, articles and illustrations printed this newspaper, but through 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns yotl can address iss.ues which have not been raised to your satisfaction in this newspaper. Viewpoint 
Editorial Boarr! 

Editor-in-Chief . ........, . Bob Vonderheide Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Executive Editor. . . . . .. Margaret Fosmoe News Editor . . . . . . ... . . .. Sarah Hamilton News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor. . . . . . . . .. Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy Photo Editor, ............... Pete Laches 
encourages all of its readers to fully expore and voice their opinions. Simply send your letter toP. 0. Box Q or .deliever it to our office. Letters should be no lon!(er than 150 words in length and guest columns should not exceed 600 words. All works must 
.be signed. 

·­
Department Managers 

Business Manager . . . ... Dave Ta1clet Controller . . . . . . . . .. Maripat Horne Advertising Manager ... Jeanie Poole Circulation Manager .......... Jeif O'Neill Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3, 1966 


J 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Women's Soccer 
Clubwill hold open practice today at 4:30p.m. and tomorrow at 4 p.m. on the Stepan Fields. All are welcome. For more information, call Karen Moritz at 1293 or Letty at 2156. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club will hold an 
organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. All interested in playing must attend. No experience is nec­essary. Ifyou have any questions, contact Clarke Keough at 3686 or Steve Schneider at 272-0828. -The Observer 
The lacrOSSe team will have a meeting Sunday, Sep­tember 2, at 1 p.m. on Cartier Field. The meeting will be followed by a scrimmage, so come prepared to play. -The Observer 
Open volleyball tryouts will be held today and tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the ACC Pit. Anyone interested should come ready to play. For more information, call 239-5143. -TheObserver 
The Notre Dame Water Polo Club wm 
have an organizational meeting for anyone interested. New mem­bers are encouraged to attend. The meeting will be at 10 p.m. Sun­day, September 2, in the LaFortune lobby. Anyone interested but unable to attend should call Mike at 14 71. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will have a meeting today, at 6:30p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall. The meeting is for all present members, especially officers. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus Soccer teamis now forming. Anyone interested in playing this fall should see Mike Tullio on Mon­day, September 3, on the first floor ofLaFortune from 12 to 4 p.m. or call him at 277-8491. -The Observer 
Stretchercise,a different kind ofexercise class featuring stretching and light exercise, is being offered by the Non-Varsity Athletic Office. The classes will be held Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:10 to 6 p.m. at ACC Gym 4, above Gate 3. Call the NVA office at 239-5100 for more information. -The Observer 
A scuba diving class is being offered by the NVA Office. The .course will run for a period of six weeks and will award YMCA lifetime certification. To find out more about living under­water, come to the organizational meeting Tuesday, September 4, at 6 p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. -The Observer. 
I 

Thursday, August 30, 1984 -page 8 
The first setofdeadlineshas been announced by 
the NVA. September 5 is the deadline for registration for the follow­
ing sports: men's and women's interhall football, undergrad and 
grad-faculty singles tennis for men and women, undergrad and grad­
faculty mixed doubles tennis, co-ree softball, and the 16-inch 
softball slow pitch tourney. September 12 is the deadline for entries 
for grad touch football, men's soccer, co-ree water polo, and the golf 
tourney. -The Observer 
Deadline for signups for a windsurfing clinic that will be given at Saturday's NVA beach party at St. Joseph's Lake is 5 
p.m. today. The clinic will last two-and-a-half hours. Other events that will be held on Saturday are an innertube water polo tourney and a biathlon (half-mile swim followed by a two-mile run). Deadline for signups for each of these events is Friday at 5 p.m. You can enter at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
Aerobic classesfor both men and women begin on Sep­tember 5 and 6. Classes run from 4-4:50 p.m. and 5:10-6 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday. There will also be a class from 4-4:50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Classes will be held in Gym 4 ofthe ACC (above Gate 3). Advanced registration is necessary. The cost for the classes is as follows: Students -$4 (halfsemester) or $6 (full semes­ter), Faculty and staff-S13 (half semester or $25 (full semester). Register in the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
The Hockey Team will hold an organizational meeting for all returili.ng players and anyone else who is interested in trying out for the team. The meeting will be Monday, September 3, at 4:30 p.m. All attending should report to the North Dome of the ACC, to the stands behind the home box. -The Observer 
• 

The Men's Track Teamwill hold an organizational meeting on Wednesday, September 5, at 4:30p.m., in the ACC Foot­ball Auditorium. Students interested in either indoor or outdoor track should attend. -The Observer 
John McEnroe defeated Britain's Colin Dowdeswell in straight sets yesterday, as he began his quest for a fourth U.S. Open title in New York. Also winning in straight sets were No.2 seed Ivan Lendl, No.3 seed Jimmy Connors, and No.1 women's seed Martina Navratilova. No.4 Pam Shriver and No. 13 Wendy Turnbull also ad­vanced to the second round. -AP 
Mike Rozier, the 1983 Heisman Trophy winner from Ne­braska, won't be leaving the USFL to play for the Houston Oilers this season, Oilers General Manager Ladd Herzog said yesterday. In other NFL news, veteran tackle Chris Ward was waived yesterday in a surprise move by the New York Jets because Coach Joe Walton "wanted to go with younger players." -AP 
Student Ticket Distribution 
Sophomores Grad students Law students 
TODAY GATE3 3-8p.m. 
Freshmen 
TOMORROW GATE3 3-8p.m. 
THE ANSWER IS 
V#\11
vn11 YOU 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 

THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBLISHER 

The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on till" third floor of l.afortunt: Student Center. accepts classified advt:rtising from 9 a.m. until .J p.m., :'>londay through Friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's olfict:. located on the third floor of flaggar College Cent<:r. acct:pts classifieds from ll:jO p.m. until .3 p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifit:ds is .3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Chargt: is I 0 ct:nts pt:r five charac­



Classifieds 
ters erda . 

CARPET REMNANTS for sale. Three sizes. brown. Used last semester. Call 
APPLICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT STUDENT HOUSES, SEMI-SR. MARITA'S PRIMARY DAY 
AT IRISH GARDENS ARE AVAILABLE FURNISHED. NEEDS PAINTING. SCHOOL-Meeting for pat volunteers
NOTICES 

288-8461 or 2334028 eves.
IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT W/FURNISH MATERIALS. CALL DAYS FOR SALE on Thursday. 7:30p.m., 124 esc 
OFFICES IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE 272.0100. ASK FOR MRS. OLSON. RETURN BY TUESDAY SEPT. 4TH. CALL EVENINGS 272-9222. HEY OBSERVER COPY EDITORSIII FINANCIAL AID FORMS A MUST. ..............................................................,. Please contact Dan or Sarah so that we Here Uee the Noire Dame student ol yes­
Shr 2Bdr hae 1.5 miles to NO 2n-8795 1980 AUOI 4DOO-EXCELLENT can set up a schedule lor this year. Don't terday, now extinct. If you think ol h, have 
SHAPE,GOING CHEAP,232.0265 TICKETS be shy, we're anticipating a fun-fllled, a Coke lor him. FURNISHED BASEMENT ROOM FOR action-packed year. So call us now. You lWOSTUDENTS. CALL 232-6193. 1976 VW RABBITI For Sale, Must Sell won't want to miss a minute more. SKI DOERS ARE GODS I!! I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI
LOST/FOUND I 
Good Condition.895.00 or Best Offer. 684-4621 in Nllee,eveninga. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-200 stu­
GAME!I!I!I CALL MARIPAT AT 2n-2581 Are you In .-! ol FINANCIAL AID? OR239-7471. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
dent loans Due in 30 Days 1I Interest Olympia typewriter model XL 12 electric Open 11 :30-12:30 M-F Basement
L--.rnp Tr.iningl Challenge! Ad­$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob 
WANTED 

portable, with cue. Excellent cond. $120. LaFortune Ski"'* or CPT Anne Rieman in the FOUND: IN FRONT OF INFIRMARY ON 
Call between 7-9 p.m. 239-7261. ROTC Building. (239-6264) NEED ONE PURDUE STUDENTSATURDAY MORNING A GOLD LOOP 
FOR SALE: BROWN RECLINER TICKET. CALLBILlAT2128.
EARRING. CALL STEVE AT 1163 TO 
IDENTIFY. SOPHMORESI Interested in becoming FOA SALE: Brown plaid love seat, (LEATHER-LIKE) $35 CALL2n-7570 an Army Officer? Interested In Scholar­
$75.00: Velvet celery green chair, $50.00. NEEDED: 4 GA FOOTBALL TICKETS
Good condition. JOHN HEASLEY, please call Dan or ltAHAIIAI BAHAMAS BAHAMAS 239-5930 Sarah at The Observer. We.-! to set up ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL ANNE X2822 
Anne Rieman In the ROTC Building. (239­OCT. IIIIEAK TltiP IN NASIAU. ALL 6264) 281-8644 a copy editing schedule but don't have
-TWa····G'A····AiR"····FCiRcii.....Tici<m
STUDENTS WELCOME· CALL LAURIE your off-campus phone number. Please
FOR RENT
4011,11ARK 1113, .IM 1117 OA 1113. NEEDED. CALL 808 AT 27M103. call today. Thanks.
WANTED: GERMAN TYPIST to tranapooe large German index from cardll 

For lillie FREEZE FREEZE FREEZE ALL INTER· HELP!!! I need 1 ticket lor the Purdue
to computer. Phone 288-92n. Large green shag carpet, $30.00 The Obaetver is accepting applications ESTEO IN STARTING A STUDENT NU­game. II you have one or know someone
Student Housing. Rated Superior. Clean, Large blue carpet, $35.00 for the position ol design editor. Submit a CLEAR FREEZE ORGANIZATION CALL High security, smolce alarms, laundry, C4/1277-IJ254 letter detaiUng your layout experience.
who does PLEASE let me know! Call 
Susan at 4420 WANTED: Female roommate to share 

BETHAT27200RSTOPBY401 BADIN utilltiee. $110/rno. NEside. 291-1405 Deadline: 5 p.m. Friday, Aug. 31. For 
more information, contact Margaret at the FREE DISCOUNT POSTER CATALOG. living elCJ)e0118S in furnished house. 10 WANTEO..WANTED N.D.· P.U. FB Tick­
FOR SALE: BROWN RECLINER LaFortune office. Wrtte: Art Factory, 8 West Roeemont minutes from campua. $150.00 includes (LEATHER-LIKE) $35 FIRST COME­ets 1 or 2(together) call 1787 
Ave., AlelC811dria, VA 22301 HOUSE FOR RENT: 4-5 BORM, utiUties. FIRST SERVE CALL2n-7570 BASH!! NO APTS!! FRIOAYI! WALKING DISTANCE TO NO. BATH 239-5930 TYPING SERVICE AND HALF EXCEPTIONALLY ClEAN. 281-8644 
OOPS OLLIE OVERBOUGHT! one fold­KEGAL Y FACED WED KEGAL Y FACED 27Hl045 LG LIVING AM/KITCHEN. $93.75 PER out couch/bed BIG SALE ... CHEAPI Call THUR KEGAL Y FACEO ... AGAIN PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE STUDENT PER MO PLUS UTILITIES. 
PERSONALS
Scott2500 

PH 287-7178 ENAO HELP WANTED: FULL OR PART-TIME 
TOM CONSIOINE ... Thanks lor gracing COOK. APPLY MACRI'S DELl, UNIVER­
PORTABLE BIKE FOR SALE -PER­us tettow domers with your godlike per­
BRIDGE BfiiDGE BRIDGE SITY CENTER, MISHAWAKA. 277·7273. 
FECT CROSS CAMPUS TRANSPOR­Pandonl'a welcomes back students. We sonality ... you man-god!Ill! 
Who •ys there's nothing to do? Call TATION· 1ST $100, OR BEST OFFER· can help you with all your school needs. Town & Country Bridge Center at 255­
Nonemok'n STUDENT TO SHARE APT: 281-5366. Te><lbool<a at 25 percent off, paperbacks, 66131or more information. $234/M. inc. heat A/C, util, flreplc., reference materlala, posters lor your Time runs through your nngers.
WANTED: PERSON(S) TO SHARE 
RIDE AND EXPENSES FROM

lekevw., pool, tennis, sauna, 3 Mi.from ARE YOU LOOKING FOR SOME COOL room. We're at 937 South Bend Avenue. You never hold It at ell 'IIIII's gone. 
Guitar and Drum Le880118: from folk guitar N.D. 256-6676 Eve's KALAMAZOO. Ml TO SOUTH BEND, PARTY SHADES OR SOMETHING TO Stop In and save big. Some fragments stiN NngerINC DAILY. CALL DIANE 239-7560. 
picldng to jazz and bluee lead guitar ................................................................ CUT THE TROUBLESOME GLARE? IF Uke snow in the spring, hanf1/nf1 on. 
playing: I play al percuaaion stytee. Call Furnished House-Just became avlllleble SO, CONTACT YOUR LOCAL CLASSIC OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR, me(Rob) at 232-8555 in the evening. Fee -5 bdnn, 2 bath $350 per mo. Call 2n-SUN GLASSES REP AT 1172. GREAT CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE -AIS~ negotiable. 3461 or coltect.616-445-8283 MAXELLXL2 2.75X1150 GLASSES AT GREAT PRICES! BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 

The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1984 -page 9 

Baseball Standings  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Eaat  Eaat  
w  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
Detroll  87  46  854  - Chicago  79  53  598  
Toronto  75  57  568 11.5  New York  73  58  .557  5.5  
Balli more  71  61  538 15.5  Philadelphia  71  59  .546  7  
New York  71  61  536 15.5  Sl. Louis  66  65  504  12.5  
Boston  69  63  523 17.5  Montreal  64  67  .489  14.5  
Cleveland  59  74  .444  26  PIHsburgh  57  75  .432  22  
Milwaukee  55  77  .417  31.5  West  
WMI  San Diego  77  55  .583  
Minnesota  69  63  523  - Houston  68  66  .507  10  
Kan888Ci1y  66  66  .500  3 Allanta  65  67  .492  12  
California  85  67  .492  4 Los Angeles  63  70  .474  14.5  
Chicago  67  69  .493  4 San Francisco  54  77  .412  22.5  
Oakland  61  73  .455  9 Cincinnati  54  79  .406  23.5  

Texas  58  74  .439  11  
Seallle  58  75  .436  11.5  
YMterday"a Resulta  YNterday'a R"ulta  
California 7, Baltimore 5  Chicago 7, CinCinnatl2  
Chicago 8. Toronto 5  SanFrancisco4, Montreal3. 11innlngs  
Boat on 4. Minnesota 0  New York 3, Los Angeles 2  
K&n888 Clly 4, Texas 1  Sen Diego 2, Philadelphia 0  
Saa111e 5, Detroil 1  Sl. Louis 10, Atlanta 6  
New York 4, Oakland 1  Plhsburgh 4, Houston 3  
Cleveland 5, Milwaukee 2  


HELP! 

COUNSELINE, the University of Notre Dame telephone tape service run by your Counseling and Psychological Services Center needs volunteers to handle the phones again. This semester, for a rewarding experience, 
please call 239-5486 or 239-7336 if you would like to volunteer, or stop by the Student Health Center, 3rd floor (Infirmary). 
.........•..................•.,
• ~t::Nv'IE ~~~~~t::Nv'IE e SNNT MAA..'fS ~~S ~MAA..~SNNTMAR..'IS e 
IHEN"R€2 [H~ IHEAW IH~ • 
•• A.LlblTlON5 ~ 
open to all students • no expenence necessary • 
•••• AUGUST 30 •• • 7=00 pm • LIBRARY AUDITORIUM •
• 
------NOTRE DAME --• •• 
•• AUGUST 31 -.• • 7:00pm • : LITTLE THEATRE : : -----SAINT MARY'S : 
• Over 20 roles for men & women; technical • • positions available sign up at auditions • 
• Scripts on loan from theatre dept offices •
• 
• do eomethlng daring •• 
Races heat up as September arrives 
in the fourth on singles by Dernier,
Mets 3, Dodgers 2 Cubs 7, Reds 2 

Sandberg and Durham. Associated Press CHICAGO -Leon Durham drove in three runs with a homer and a Padres 2, Phillies 0 NEW YORK · Keith Hernandez' single and Bob Dernier broke an 0­
. double in the ninth scored pinch hit· for-20 slump with a home run yes­PHILADELPHIA · Mark Thurmond ter Danny Heep from first base as the terday to lead Rick Sutcliffe and the pitched a three-hit shutout Wednes­r:ew York Mets beat the Los Angeles first-place Chicago Cubs to a 7-2 vic­day night ao; the San Diego Padres Dodgers 3-2 to sweep a three-game tory over the Cincinnati Reds. stopped the Philadelphia Phillies' 
series. scoring binge with a 2-0 victory. The winner wasjesse Orosco, 9-5, The win was the fourth straight The Phillies had scored 30 runs in who had yielded an eighth-inning for the Cubs, I I th straight for three games and 63 in the last eight pinch-hit home run to Candy Mal· Sutcliffe. 
but were shut down as Thurmond donado to tie the score. Pat Zachry, Ryne Sandberg banged out three improved his record to II·7 with his 5-4, who faced Heep and Hernandez, hits, including a double and a triple. first major league shutout. john was the lo~er. Sandberg doubled in the first inning Denny allowed only four hits over 
Ht:ep opened the inning with a and scored on a single by Keith eight innings for the Phil lies, but fell single that bounced in front of Moreland, but the Reds tied it in the to6-5. second baseman Steve Sax and over second. 
Thurmond retired the first 11 bat­his head. Hernandez then lined a The Cubs broke it open with four ters before Von Hayes singled and 
•double into the left field corner, and runs in the third. Dernier led offwith John Wockenfuss walked in the 
Heep raced home from first.  his third homer off loser Jeff Russell  fourth. The only other Phillie hits  
The pinch-hit by Heep broke an  ( 6-I 5 ). Gary Matthews walked and  were a single by john Russell in the  
0-19 streak as a pinch-hitter.  Durham  followed  with  his  20th  fifth and a single by Ivan Dejesus in  
Ron  Darling  pitcheu  tne  first  homer. A pair of walks and a double  the eighth. Thurmond walked one  
seven innings, striking out a career­ by Jody  Davis accounted for  the  and struck out two.  
high 12 batters, while limiting the  other run.  The Padres took a 1-0 lead in the  
Dodgers  to  just  three  hits.  The Cubs picked up another run  first. Alan Wiggins singled and stole  

The Observer 
Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
e Responsible for all Saint Mary's sports coverage. 
esmall salary based on the number of articles submitted about Saint Mary's athletics. 
Assistant Sports Editor 
e Must have a thorough knowledge of all Notre Dame sports. 
e Responsible for sports briefs and tor filing sports material. Paid position. 
Submit application and a personal statement to Mike Sullivan by 5 p.m. Friday. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
GARRET ELECTRONICS We repair all makes of stereos and VCRs We sell all makes of stylii (needles) 
3318 Mishawaka Ave. 234-3739 
JOIN UP e JOIN UP e JOIN UP e JOIN UP e JOIN UP • JOIN UP • JOIN UP 
Clubs and Organizations: 
ACTMTIES NIGHT 
Monday, September 3 Stepan Center 7:00-11:00 p.m. 
ALL CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS INTERESTED IN HAVING A TABLE AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT MUST SIGN UP IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 1st FLOOR LAFORTUNE, BY FRIDAY AUGUST 31, 
4:00p.m. 
NIOr e dn NIOr e dn NIOr • dn NIOr • dn N:or • dn NIOr • dn NIOr • dn 
his 56th base of the season. Tony 
Gwynn singled him to third and 
Wiggins scored on a double play 
grounder by Steve Garvey. 
Pirates 4, Astros 2 
HOUSTON· Winning pitcher Don 
Robinson's RBI single in the ninth in· 
ning scored Marvell Wynne from 
second bao;e Wednesday night with 
the go-ahead run to give the Pit· 
tsburgh Pirates to a 4-2 victory over 
the Houston Astros. 
Wynne lead off the ninth with a single and was sacrificed to second by Lee Lacy. lbe victory raised Rob­inson's record to 3-5. He scored the final run on Tony Pena's double. 
Frank DiPino, who came in and got out of a bases-loaded, two-out situation in the seventh, took the loss, dropping his record to 4-7. 
The Pirates took a 1-0 lead in the second inning with two out. Doug Frobel singled, stole second and went to third on catcher Mark Bailey's throwing error. Ron Wotus doubled to right to score Frobel, the hit giving him his first major league RBI. 
Red Sox 4, Twins 0 
MINNEAPOUS -Dennis Boyd 
checked Minnesota on two hits and 
Mike Easler drove in a pair of runs 
with two clutch singles to lift the 
Boston Red Sox over the Minnesota 
Twins 4-0 Wednesday night. 
Boyd, 9-9, retired the first nine 
Minnesota batters until Kirby Puck­
ett lined a single to right to start the 
fourth inning. The other hit came in 
the sixth, when shortstop Jackie 
Gutierrez lost Tim Teufel's routine 
popup in the Metrodome lights for a 
single. 
Boyd struck out six and walked 
four for his second shutout of the 
season. 
Easler had two-out, RBI singles in 
the fourth and sixth innings, giving 
him 73 runs batted in this season. 
Angels 7, Orioles 5 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Fred Lynn and 
Brian Downing hit consecutive solo 
homers with two out in the eighth 
inning to lead the California Angels 
to a 7-5 victory over the Baltimore 
Orioles Wednesday. 
Both homers came off loser Mike 
Boddicker, 16-9, and snap~d a 5-5 
tie that the Orioles had forged in the 
top of the inning. Lynn's was his 
16th, and Downing hit his 18th. 
Baltimore had tied it 5-5 In the 
eighth when Angels starter Mike 
Witt walked Cal Ripken)r. and Eddie 
Murray with one out. After Doug Corbett relieved Witt, designated hitter joe Nolan stroked a two-out RBI single, scoring Ripken. 
Corbett pitched the final 1 2·3 in­nings to gain the victory and raise his record to 4-1. 
Rob Wilfong had hit a three-run 
homer in the fifth Inning as Califor­
nia erased a 4-0 deficit to lead S-4. 




The Observer Thursday, August 30, 1984 -page 10 


Illinois Governor speaks out 
Night ball illegal at Wrigley 
Assodated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -Illinois Gov. james R. Thompson took his turn at bat Wednesday in the controversy over whether lights should be in­stalled at Wrigley Field if the 
Chicago Cubs make the playoffs. 

And he said the state law on the subject is as clear as a sunny day at Wrigley: there can't be night baseball at the Cubs' home field, the only major league ballpark without lights. 
The Republican governor, des­cribed by spokesman David Fields as a "devout," lifelong Cubs fan, said in a statement that a bill he signed in 1982 in effect forbids night games at Wrigley. 
"With my approval of that bill two years ago, talk today ofplaying ni~t 
TV 
continued from page 12 
on the local level that the colleges 
do nothave much bargaining power. 
One of the best examples of how the new plan adversely affects a school's television money is the plight of Boston College. BC, a 

program that has drawn a lot of national attention in the last couple of years, was all set to make a killing on the major networks because ofits popular quarterback Doug Flutie. The decrease in ABC and CBS money has hurt BC tremendously, however. Even the money they receive from regional telecasts will not keep the Eagles from making little more than half of what they 
made last year. 
Things would have been very 
diJJerent if the CFA and the Big Ten­
Pac 10 coalitions had been able to 
work together and negotiate with 
the networks as one entity. With all 
the colleges together, the group 
would have had the same bargaining 
power as the NCAA had had before. 
Exclusivity would most likely have 
existed, and; with it, top-dollar 
television money. The regional deals 
would have justadded to the wealth. 

However, with the two coalitions at odds and competing against each other on the major networks, the advantage goes to the buyer instead of the seller. The networks have been able to profit immensely from the fact that there is going to be a glut ofcollege football on television. In the past, the supply has been trying to catch up to the demand for college football, and increasing prices were the result. Now the supply has reached, if not surpassed, the demand. Prices would be expected to level or drop, which is exactly what has happened. 
The CFA, which was in favor of 
breaking up the NCAA's control in 
the first place, argues that the 
Supreme Court's ruling is in the best 
interests of college football; 
however others feel that college 
football's future could be in trouble. 
NCAA officials warn that the major 
powers could have a monopoly on 
the television money, recruits and 
national exposure. Others fear that, 
with football games being televised all day, attendance at the games could suffer. 

Whether or not these fears are reasonable, it would appear that the current situation is going to have to change after this season ends. The contracts with ABC, ESPN and CBS are all one-year contracts, something that would indicate that most colleges feel that the situation will be diJJerent a year from now. 
In the meantime, college football fans will not be worrying, just watching and watching and watching.... 
Tomorrow: Notre Damefootball on television. Make wayfor tbe real "America's Team." 

games -with the aid oftemporary or 
permanent lights -is useless. It's 
simply against the law." 
Thompson also said he won't call 
the state Legislature into special ses­
sion to rewrite the statute. 
"To change the law would require action by the Legislature, which is not scheduled to meet until the third week of November, well after the Cubs have won the World Se­ries," Thompson said. 
The lawThompson cited does not 
specifically forbid lights at Wrigley 
Field. But it sets a noise-pollution 
standard for night games at the park 
that can't realistically be met. 
The law was passed after lobbying 
Attention Freshmen! 
There will be an organizational meeting for all freshmen and new reporters interested in writing sports for The Observer today at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Whether you are interested in journalism or just want to get involved in the athletic department, sportswriting could prove to be a rewarding experience. All interested students, both at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, are welcome to at­tend. 




PORTANT PERSON 

K 

THE BEER DRINKER. 
At Anheuser-Busch, brewing is an art. No one takes more time or goes to more effort or expense than we do in brewing the most popular family of beers in the world. 
We take great pride in this distinction, yet this distinction carries with it certain responsibilities. 
Beer is a beverage to be enjoyed by adults socially-with family and friends at home ... in your clubs, restaurants and at special events. It is also the beverage of moderation, and good judgment should be used when you drink. 

Chairman of the Board and President 
ANHEUSER·BUSCH. INC. • ST. LOUIS 
by residents of the neighborhood 
surrounding the ballpark, who said 
they didn't want to put up with the 
noise and· disturbances of night 
baseball. 
Wrigley Field, builtin 1914, is in a 
residential section on Chicago's 
North Side, with rows of homes 
across the street from the outfield 
fence. 
With the Cubs having a shot at postseason play, baseball officials are trying to find a way to avoid losing television revenue. 
Cubs officials said Tuesday that any decision on installing temporary lights for the playoffs would rest with Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn. 

Thankfully, the vast majority of those who consume beer do so in moderation. Nevertheless, anything less than responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages is detrimental to the individual and society. We at Anheuser-Busch certainly are concerned about you, our valued customer. Accordingly, we are dedicated to the support of research, education, and treatment programs a1med at combatting alcoholism and alcohol abuse. 
~~.:,;~ 
The College Football Association has signed a one-year contract with both ABC and ESPN to televise college football games involving member teams. The following figures represent the major points of the agreement. 
Games televised by ABC Games: The network will televise 20 games, beginning September 8. The Saturday afternoon package will be shown during the 3:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. (EST) time period. The Sept. 8 game between Boston College and Ala­bama will be shown in prime time. Two other games -Oklahoma at Pit­tsburgh (Sept. 15) and Notre Dame at Missouri (Sept. 29) -are scheduled for late afternoon. There will be no telecast on Sept. 22. Money: The CFA Television Committee has accepted a rights fee of $12 million in exchange for the network's commitment to televise a minimum of 20 games. Originally, ABC had offered $13 million but would televise only a limited amount of games. 
Games televised by ESPN Games: The cable network will televise a minimum of 15 games reaching approximately 32 million homes. The coverage begins with a Sept. 1 doubleheader (BYU at Pitt, Miami vs. Florida at Tampa). The evening games will begin at 7:45p.m. (EST). Money: The network will pay a rights fee of $9.3 million with the right to show any CFA member once during the season. ESPN may also televise a game later in the season involving a team that has already appeared as long as that team does not exceed its maximum number of appearances (ABC and ESPN combined). 
Appearance and payment information 
•A 
team can appear a maximum of four times in a year. This includes ap­pearances on both ABC and ESPN, e.g., if a team has appeared on ABC twice, it cannot appear on ESPN more than twice. 

•
Twenty-five percent of the gross receipts from the contracts with ABC and ESPN will be placed in a pool to be distributed equally among all63 CFA members that are participating in the plan. The estimated share is approxi­mately $84,500 per member. 

•A 
distribution plan for the schools that appear on television will not be decided until ABC determines its programming schedule (a mixture of na­tional, split-national and regional games). Estimated payoffs for the games are as follows: $525,000-$550,000 (ABC national game), $470,000­$490,000 (ABC split-national), $430,000-$450,000 (ESPN). 



IINYWIIY..I KNOW YOIJ HAP 
'tf)IJf?. H£/lKT SEf ON •pt5f1EYWOM-1?'' 5fJ I 
Mil~ 1H€MIIN Off£R Of 161f7 M!U!ON. NO 60. NO GO! 
I 



15 Kill 42 Antennee 22 Chum 18 Abound 44 Sheep DOWN 26 Mercetortel 17 Nentes' 45 ChemiCIII 1 -ofGIINd Item river compound 2 Ancient 27 Exheust 
18 "-Indigo" 47-tonic lyre 28 Silkworm 19 Bencroft 48 Expleted 3 Egyptlen 29 Astrolo­20 Literary 50 Pecked for goddeal ger's con· 

wordebuaer ehlpplng 4 Boring cern 23 Joaeor 52 Reverberete lnHCt 30 Apportioned Certoe 53 Rueaell 5 Medlson 31 Makes• 24 "The Cllt -to friends Ave. worker choice 
the well" 54 Ace clert­8 Chlcego 33 Chopped25 Well netlet feeture 35 Fr. river 27 Quipped 80 Tegon 7 Feshlon 38 Legal30MOM) selesltem designer peper 32 Collective 82 Contestent 8 Kukle, 39 -·heels 
term 83 Leeeo Fr•n,-(hopeleal· 33 lnclltln 84 Skid Row 9 Gr. letter ly) ofArtz.. dweller 10 MNtcut 40 F•mllyof 
£3l];WU®!t 
§~ 
Thursday 
Try our** new** frozen drink machine! 
Margaritas tonight 
Campus 

•9 
a.m.·S p.m. -Stepan Mall furniture sale. Stepan Center. 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Chlorophyll Photosensitized Electron-Transfer Reactions at the Visicle-Water Interface," William Ford, University of Arizona, Sponsored by Conference Theatre Radiation Labo­ratory. 

•5 
p.m. -Concert, "The Law," Fieldhouse Mall, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "The North Star" and "The Battle of Midway," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7p.m. 
and 9p.m. -Film, "Life ofBrian," Engineer· ing Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. and 9 p.m. -Film, "The Sting," Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30p.m.  16  M*A*S*H  
22  Family Feud  
7:00p.m.  16  Gimme A Break  
22  Magnum,P1  
7:30p.m.  16  Family Ties  
22  
8:00p.m.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon & Simon  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
8:30p.m.  16  NightCoun  
46  Ught for Uvlng  
9:00p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
46  Today With Lester Sumrall  
10:00p.m.  16  NewsCc:nter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
46  Larry Jones  
10:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  U.S. Open Highlights  
46  Larry Rice With Here"s Help  
ll:OOp.m.  22  CBS Late Movie · Great Alligator  
46  Kenneth Copeland Believer's Con­ 
vention  
11:30p.m.  16  Late Night With David Letterman  
12:30a.m.  16  Star Sc:arch  
l:OOa.m.  22  CBS Nightwatch  



Welcomes You Back!! 
Now open 'til3 a.m.l 
Friday 

Cocktail Party G&Ts and Imports special from 5-8 
open 'til 3 a.m. 
2 FORMS QF 10 REQUIRED 

Monty Python's Life of Brian • 
Aug. 30&31 • 7,9,11 
•

Engineering Aud. $1.00 
• 


Thursday, August 30, 1984 -page 12
S~orts 

Gann, Griffin, Dorsey key new Irish defensive alignment 
ByJOE BRUNEITI under his belt. The 6-5 marketing Greg Dingens is Mr. Versatility on Sports Writer major will hold down the left tackle the line. He has the capability to play position for the Irish this fall. Last any ofthe three positions on the line 
Irish football fans will see both a year, Gann led the squad in sacks which makes him an invaluable new philosophy and a new forma­while starting all twelve games for member ofthe squad. tion on this year's defensive line. the Irish. "He's so dependable," said Lantz, While the new 3-4 formation may "Mike is really playing like a "He can handle playing nosetackle not be easily distinguished from last senior," said Lantz. "He has always or either of the end positions. He is year's conventional 5-2, the new ag­been agood football player, and he is our most important defensive gressive style of the defensive line really working hard to become a lineman." should be both noticed and felt by great one." While Griffin, Gann, and Kleine opposing offenses. The other two starters are both will hold down the starting slots, 
The key to this year's ·defensive sophomores-Wally Kleine and Mike Lantz emphasizes the point that all line will be "aggressiveness." No Griffin. The 6-8 Kleine was forced to five players have starting abilities. longer will the Irish rely on a read­sit out the entire '82 season with "We feel comfortable and confi­and-react defense as they have in the knee problems, but returned strong dent with all five. Those five could past. Instead, a new emphasis on at­in '83, playing in every game. Kleine play at anytime, and they all get a lot tacking the line will be utilized. earned his starting right tackle spot ofplaying time." 
"Our defensive linemen are going by having excellent spring and sum­The only question mark on the to be more attack-oriented this mercamps. line may be a lack of experience year," said Irish defensive line coach "Wally has unlimited potential," among the quintet. Lantz, however, Rick Lantz. "We want our linemen to said Lantz. "He has shown us in the doesn't think the youth of the line attack the football more and to spring and summer that he wants to will be a problem. become more involved with the fight to reach that potential." "Every coach wants to start all play." Griffin will anchor the nosetackle juniors and seniors, but all of them 
This change will put more pres­position for this year's Irish. The have gotten considerable time in the sure on the Irish linemen because 254-pound Ohio resident will past," said Lantz. We expect them to they will no longer have as much replace )on Autry, who was lost to play like veterans. time to read the offense. This new graduation. As a freshman, Griffin "We want them to make someth­defensive philosophy requires each earned starting spots against ing happen. They are going to be player to have a greater amount of Colorado, US~, Penn State, and Air turned loose." confidence in his inidividual ability. Force while· replacing the injured The key word to describe this Lantz, however, does not think this Autry. year's defensive line is "aggressive." should be a problem. "Griffin is a throwback to the days IRISH ITEMS -The final full 
"The players have been develop­ofold. He likes to line up on the cen­scrimmage for the Irish before the ing confidence in their ability to at­ter. He revels in being double­Purdue game will held tomorrow at ' tack the line of scrimmage and to teamed," said Lantz. 4 p.m. in the stadium ... Slight injur­,# react properly when they are out of "He really makes it easy for the ies dot the Notre Dame roster, and position," said Lantz. "I have really linebackers behind him." some players will forego the seen great improvement in their While Griffin is the muscle scrimmage in order to heal com­confidence in the last few nosetackle for the Irish, junior Eric pletely -linebacker Mike Kovaleski
\.. 

practices." Dorsey is a finesse-type lineman. (ankle sprain), safety joe johnson
~ 

Going into the Purdue game, The 256-pounder utilizes his super­(foot infection), tight end Ricky
fllllllllk, 

lbc Obscrvcr/FUc Photo Lantz has five players with starting ior speed on the field and will pro­Gray (leg strain), receiver Alvin Mil­
'-

Tbe Irlsb will be counting beavtly on senior left tacllle Mike ability, but only three positions to vide the Irish with another ler (knee bruise), tight end joel Wil­Gann to anchor tbe defensive line of a new 3-4 alignment tbis fill. dimension at nosetackle. liams (hip) , guard Larry Williams season. joe Brunetti analyzes Notre Dame's defensive front in bis Senior Mike Gann is the veteran of "Dorsey and Griffin give us a posi­(pinched nerve), offensive tackles story at left. the quintet with three monograms tive combination. Sometimes we Tom Doerger (leg) and John Askin will have Griffin go through our op­(leg ) ... Four other players will be ponents, and then we can switch and sidelined for longer periods oftime ­
Schools to get less money 

have Dorsey go around our oppo­linebacker Rick DiBernardo nents," said Lantz. "Eric is the fastest (broken wrist), defensive tackle off the ball of any of our defensive Tony Roos (shoulder surgery),
Fans will see more games this year 
lineman. He is really playing well linebacker Kevin jennings (bruised and he has complete confidence in hand), offensive tackle Ken Cannella
Editor's note: Tbis is tbe second Lawn can turn on the television at By the time the day is finished, our his ability." (strained knee).
part of a three-part report on tbe 11:30 in the morning ( 12:30 on the viewer will have watched almost 12 repercussions oftbe Supreme Court East Coast) and have a choice ofone hours of football without even ruling tbat tbe NCAA's control of of three games. One station may be leaving his house. collegefootball television coverage carrying a Big Ten conference game, Meanwhile, the checks coming is tllegal. another may be carrying a Notre into the colleges for television 
Dame game, and still another could appearances will not be as large By MIKE SULLIVAN be carrying another syndicated despite the increase in appearances. Sports Editor game. In the Northeast, even the There will be a few schools that do 
local PBS station will be carrying an benefit somewhat -the lesser lights 
The Supreme Court's decision Ivy League matchup. of the Pac-10 and a few major that individual colleges can The day is just beginning, though. independents, for instance -but negotiate their own television At 2:30p.m., the major networks get most will find that more television 



college football telecasts.  into the action. CBS will be showing  money from CBS and ABC accounts  
Now, with the schools scrambling  an  important Big  Ten  or  Pac-1 0  for  most  of  the  problem.  The  
to make regional deals of their own,  game (or a game between Big Ten  $800,000 paychecks  which  were  
and the two major coalitions -the  and Pac-10 teams), while ABC will  split between the school that was on  
College Football Association and the  be  carrying  the  CFA  game  that  television and the other teams in the  
Big  Ten-Pacific  10  conference  should be ofthe most interest.  conference are now about half that  
alliance  -presenting packages that  The  prime-time  slot  wraps  up  amount. The smaller Division 1-AA,  
call for conflicting games on ABC  what has already been a long day of  II and III teams do not receive any  
and CBS, there is no such thing as  football.  Occasionally,  one  of the  money for regional broadcasts. And  
exclusivity.  major networks will show a game  even the independents who do not  
However,  what  is  bad  for  the  late  (for  instance,  ABC  will  be  have  to  split  paychecks  with  
colleges is great for college football  showing the September 8  Boston  anybody else lose.  
fans all over the country. They will  College-Alabama  game  in  prime  Theoretically,  the  regional  
now  be  able  to  watch  college  time), but usually the late time slot  packages  that  each  school  or  
football almost non-stop from 12:30  will be filled by the cable networks  conference negotiates are supposed  
p.m. (EST) to almost midnight.  like ESPN or WTBS. Assuming that  to  make up the difference in the  
Someone  in  a  larger  city  like  the fan in Oak Lawn is still conscious  network deals, but they do not come  
Chicago will now be able to see as  (and  has  cable  TV),  he  can  see  close. There is so much competition  
many as seven or more games on any  another  CFA  game  on  ESPN  or  




packages, thus breaking up the NCAA's control of all college football telecasts, has had mixed blessings. 
For the most part, schools will be losing money because the networks are not going to be paying nearly as much for each game as they have in the past. Until this year, the major networks -namely ABC and CBS ­have been willing to pay up to 
$800,000 per game because they 
were the exclusive carriers of live 

College Football on TV 
appearances do not mean more 
money. 
just how much less will the colleges be making? Consider that ABC and CBS are paying about $20 million for college football telecasts this season, considerably less than the $62.5 million they paid last year. 
Even if you figure in the totals from the regional contracts and the cable contracts, the paychecks are going to be lower. 

Eric Dorsey Mike Griffin 
Obviously, the huge drop in 

given Saturday. For example, maybe a Southeastern Conference see TV, page 10 someone sitting at home in Oak gameonTBS. Wally Kleine 


