-----·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Fired workers -page 7 

VOL XVIII, NO. 113 THURSDAY, MARCH IS, 1984 
Du Lac revision could prohibit ads for events where alcohol is served 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY trees, posts, or other property on the StaffReporter University grounds." "Its seems the University is sett­
Advertisements referring to al­ling out to implement an alcohol coholic beverages will be policy that has already been decided prohibited from all university on," Grote said. property according to proposed A tighter alcohol policy means changes in next year's Du Lac by students will go offcampus to attend Dean ofStudentsjames Roemer. parties. The proposed change would 
"This is a totally new issue. Before hinder students from learning about we were talking about the use of al; those parties through advertise­coho!. Now, we're talking about the ments, said sources within the coun­right of students for information," cil who asked not to be identified. said David Grote, a member of the These same sources said the Judicial Council. The issue was dis­change follows the trend towards a cussed at last night's council tighter University alcohol policy. 
meeting. Joe Roveda, head of the Du Lac 
The present version of Du Lac Review Committee, said, "I haven't states, "The advertising ofalcohol is discussed the proposal with Dean prohibited on campus." The Roemer, so I don't know what his proposed text states, "Events involv­motives are." ing the use ofalcohol which directly Bill Bergamo, a council member, or indirectly refer to alcoholic said, "Basically, it's in Du Lac right beverages in any form cannot be ad­now. It's in there now, but not en­vertised or posted on any University property including bulletin boards, see DULAC, page 4 

Gretchen Meyer to be SMC valedictorian 
ByANNE GALLAGHER in Chemistry and a B.A. in News Staff Humanistic Studies. Registrar Sister Francesca Ken­
Gretchen Meyer has been nedy noted the rarity ofstudents named valedictorian for Saint graduating with two degrees and Mary's class of 1984, acccording maintaining the grade point to the office ofthe registar. necessary to be valedictorian. 

"I didn't plan on being a double major," said Meyer. "All I knew was that I wanted more Liberal Arts courses, and in my junior year I figured out how to do it." She said both the Chemistry and Humanistic Studies departments were very cooperative in helping her reach her decision. 
To be valedictorian, Saint Mary's requires the student at­tend at least five semesters at the College, and rank first in her class.
Gretchen Meyer 

Meyer was surprised to be Meyer, a pre-med student from selected,"I had no real solid idea Saint Louis, Missouri, will 
see MEYER, page 5
graduate with two degrees; a B.S. 
The Observer/BID Grojean

Leaving so soon? 

their spring break plans. The three Dillon seniors Frank and William Dabaware and Tom Grojean beadedoutoftheir dorm yesterdaypackedfor a trip to aren't about to let these last two class days bold up Acapulco, Mexico. 

Alumni sponsor informationvan, activities in Florida during break · 
By ROBERT SIENKIEWICZ center and a place to announce by both Notre Dame and Saint 
News Staff sporting events. Representatives of Mary's students, along with alumni 
Notre Dame's Career and Placement from the Fort Lauderdale area. 
An Alumni Association van will Service will be on hand to schedule 
serve as an information center on interviews with potential Flordia The Shenanigans also have 
the beach at Fort Lauderdale during employers. scheduled concerts on the beach, 
Spring Break. The van, along with a Other events scheduled include a three concerts for alumni groups, 
tent, will be located next to the Saint Patrick's Day party at the River­and appearances at local bars, 
Sheraton Yankee Trader Hotel. mont Hotel, two Masses, an over­parishes, and high schools. 
According to Chuck Lennon, ex­night camping trip to the 
ecutive director of the Alumni As­Everglades, a camping trip to Key Funding for both the information 
sociation, the center will not serve Largo, a Student Union party, a center and the Shenanigan tour was 
as an alternative to the barscene, but Yankees vs. Expos exhibition game, made available from sources includ­
as an option. Explained Lennon, and several competitions on the ing; 113600 from the Shananigans, 
previously studentson . y had bars to beach. S3000 from the Coca Cola Com­
socialize in, now they have a choice. Notre Dame students will also pany, $2000 from local groups, and 
Lennon said the University will have the opportunity to use a free S2000 from an anonymous benefac­
not be serving "in loco parentis." He WAITS line to call home and will tor. The University did not fund 
added that the Alumni Association receive gifts of food, fruit, and soft these events because they weren't 
will be sponsoring the center in drinks for the return to campus after allocated in the budget. 
cooperation with the Student Union the 5 p.m. Mass on Saturday. 

and the Student Alumni Relations These events will be open to all Lennon is very optimistic about 
Group. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­the success of these spring break 
The purpose of the center is mul­dents and locations will be given at events. Should they meet expecta­
tifaceted. One is to "provide a the information center. tions, Lennon will ask the l lniversity 
service to the students," said Len­The station, which will be open to appropriate funds for them in the 
non. It will also serve as a message from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m., will be manned future. 

Cheating is growing concern across nation, at Notre Dame 
ByJOHN NEBLO 
StaffReporter 
The academic community relies 

upon a high standard of integrity 
in the relations between its mem­
bers. To the extent that this stan­
dard is not maintained, thegood of 
the community suffers and in­justice (sometimes serious in­justice) may be done. 
Academic Honesty Code 
duLac 1982-84 

Academic honesty has become a point of growing concern among university administrators across the country. The issue attracted national news attention last year when a Prin­ceton University senior convicted of plagiarism sued the university for "unjust and arbitrary punishment" when the university withheld her diploma_ 
In the wake of the story, Time, Newsweek, and U.S. News and World Report all ran articles concerning academic honesty. Their findings were disturbing to some. 
U.S. News called college cheating 
"an epidemic." The article cited a 1980 Princeton University survey in which 34 percent of the students surveyed admitted to cheating at least once in their undergraduate careers. Another study, at the Uni­versity of Nebraska, found that 60 percent of the students surveyed were willing to cheat "if put under severe pressure." 
The article further cited measures university administrators were taking to combat cheating, including a huge "sting" operation conducted at the University of Maryland which netted scores of surrogate test­takers. 
The article suggested that cheat­ing touches all campuses and quoted a University of Oregon ad­ministrator, "Anyone so cavalier as to say, 'What cheating on my campus?' is woefully out of touch. It (cheating) is a sad but true fact of life." 
Is there a cheating problem at Notre Dame? 
University Provost Timothy O'Meara thinks there may be. Said O'Meara, ''I'd like to say i:hat there is no cheating at N.D., but if I were wide-eyed enough to believe that, I'd have no business being the provost. Ofcourse there is cheating at N.D." 

O'Meara, however, refused to speculate as to how widespread the cheating problem is. 
Verifiable data as to the extent of cheating on campus is hard to come by. But many students say privately that cheating is more widespread that the University would like to ad­mir. 
In most introductory courses ­
particulary those with multiple 
choice tests scored by computers ­
cheating is commonplace, students 
say. 

The course cited most often is 
Chemistry 115-116, where students 
speculate that the vast majority of 
the class has cheated at least once 
and some students have virtually 
passed the course by cheating. 
Students claim far fewer incidents 
of cheating in those courses where tests are in the form of essays and in advanced level math and science courses where students must show their work. In other words, where cheating is easy. students cheat; where it is not, they don't. 
However, even in those courses where papers and essays make cheating difficult, it is becoming easier. A 1976 study conducted at the University of Illinois concluded that "students at every major univer­sity in the country have access to at least one commercial firm that offers a variety of writing and research services ranging from under­graduate term papers to M.A. theses to Ph.D. dissertations." , 
To verify this assertion. The Ob­server acquired two research papers 
see CHEAT, page 4 




In Brief 
Retired Army major general Msgr. Francis L 
Simpson, former chiefofArmy chaplains, has been appointed special assistant to Notrt· Dame president Father Theodore Hesburgh for Rt·servt· Officer Training Corps affairs. Sampson, 72, current pastor ofSt. Nicholas Church in Tea, S.D., retired from the Army in 1971. A I 9 3 7 alumnus of Notre Dame, Sampson was ordained in the diocese ofDes Moines in I941. Aparatrooper and regimental chaplain, Msgr. Sampson jumpt·d twice into Nazi-held Europe during World War II. He was awarded tht· Distinguished Service Cross and, following his second jump, was captured by the Germans at Bastogne, Belgium. 
lie was libcratt-d from a prison ('amp in April, I945, and after a brief return to civilian life, reentered the Army in I946. During the Korean War he jumped at Sunchon in an operation designed to rescue American POWs and cut off the South Korean avenue of t•scapc. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Credit Union's downtown branch 
wa~ rohhcd yesterday afternoon at about 2 p.m. according to the South Bend Police Department. The suspects arc two black males who rcportt·dly had their hands in their jackets as though carrying guns. Larry Bower, a Credit Union employee, verified that the suspects escaped with an unspecified amount. -The Obsen;er 
Of Interest·· 
Heading South for Spring break? If you 
run in to trouble in the Atlanta area, N.D. alumnus Gary Eggleston is willing to help in an emergency. His home number is 404-436-606I and his business phone is 404-458-0515. Dr. Scott Carroll can be reached in case of emergency at 404-396-7870 (home) and 404­252-4207 (office). Ifyou need a rest on the way down, the Perimeter Shdl station operated by Roy Dobbins is located near the Cobb Parkway and Dobbins Air Force Base exit, the number is 404-952­9703. The Courtyard Marriott ( 404-955-3838) is offering a rate for four persons of S35 per night during the weekend, and S45 per night during the week. -The Obsen1er 
The resident poet of Columbia and Boston Univer­sities, Derek Walcott, will read some of his works tonight at 8:30 in the Library Auditorium. Walcott is the author of The Star-Apple Kingdom and The Fortunate Traveller. His reading is sponsored by the Black Sudies Program, the Office of Minority Student Affairs, the Student Government and the College of Arts and Letters. -The Obsen,er 
The annual writing contest is again being 
sponsored hy the Department of English in the areas of poetry, fic­tion, playwriting, and essay. Deadline for all entries is Thursday, April 5, and cash prizes range from $50 to S I 00. Details ofspecific requirements arc availablt· in 309 O'Shaug1meliiy. -The Observer 
Going home for Spring break? Bring back 
old clothes. Sister Lutigard Kolumbt· of Saint Mary's is collecting stmknt ~pring and summer clothing for men, women and children in Uganda. Especially needed arc men's shirts and pants, dresses, socks, shoes, !-shirts, baby clothes and light sweaters. Collection sites will be provided by residence hall staffs. The clothing drive will nmtinue through May. -The Obserr•er 
The Preservation Hall Jazz Band, a New 
Orleans ensemble who have created their own spirited sound, will perform at 8 p.m. on Friday, March .~0 in ()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. The concert is the third event in the I983-84 Saint Mary's Pt"rforming Arts Series. Tickets, priced at S5 for general ad­mission and $2 for senior citizens and students, may be reserved by calling the Saint Mary's tickets office at 28~-4626. -The Observer 
. Weather .­
No, it's not quite Florida. Today will he mostly cloudy, windy and mild, with a 40 pt·rcent chance of aftt·rnoon showers. lligh in mid 40s to about 50. A 60 percent chance of showers. windy and turning cooler tonight. Low in uppt·r 20s and low 30s. Cloudy, breezy ami cool tomorrow. High in mid and upper 50s. 

The Observer 
Tht· Oh-.·rvu (I ~p~ 'i99 2· 1111111) " puhh~hnJ ,\lond.l\ lhfCHI~h l·rjtJ,J~ JJUJ un hornt: lnolhall ~arurJa\'"· nu..Tpl durinf( t·xam .and v.u.:atiun pt·rioc.b The.· Ohservt'r '' puhll~hn.l h~ rht· !'olau.knr ... ot lht· I nin·r~lt\ ol ~o1n· D.tnu: JIH.I ~aim .\Liry'' ( ollc.:).tt.' Suh~t:ription~ 111:1\ lw purdlil~nl for $.!~ pt.·r yc..'.lf (Sf-) pt.·r 'l'lllt'Ml'r) hv \\ fHIIl~ The Observer. P t > Box l). Norn· Damt·.lruliana lh~~(l 
·rhe Ob!iierver 1~ a rnt.:mhl'r ofThe As· sodated Pres~. All rc.·produl'lion ri~hr.. ;trc..· n·~c..·rn·d 
Toc.Jay's i~Mit' was protlun:·d hy: 
Protludion Consultunt ....... Stt'Vt.' Foster 
/)esi/111 Editor... . . .. ........ Troy Illig 
lh.!siRil Assistant .......... Maurcc:n Murphy 
l)•pesetters ... ... Carol and Ted 
Neu•s Editor.... . ....... Amy Stt.·phan 
Copy Editor... ........................John lkasly 
.\jmrts Cop)' Editor .. Marc Ramirez 
l'it#u:point l.c~}'OUI ....... Mary Dolan 
Featrm•s Co/1)' Editor... . . .. Mary Healy 
Features lc~vout... ..... Mary 
N/J /JaJ' Editor ..... ........... Melinda Moore .\MC /JtlJ' Editor... ........ Maggit• O"Cunndl Ad Oesi!lll.. .. ... Boh Slota 
Pbotograpb(•r...... .................... Pete l.a<..-ht:~ 
~-u: -;;p;:-~-' ··r;---,... -~J .. -1!7 _.. ~ ,
-



GaryHart·needs til prOvide 'beef' in upcoming primaries 

New Hampshire, Maine, Vermont, Wyoming, Florida, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Washington and Nevada -in a political stroll across the U.S., Gary Hart's presidential campaign has tal<en on the Mondale myth and shal<en it just as Darwin tore apart the Book of Genesis. 
But the Colorado senator, according to a former in­tern with Hart's campaign staff, now faces the prospect that "his momentum will slow down." 
Lou Nanni, who worked on Capitol Hill this summer as an assistant to the National Political Director of the Hart campaign, says Hart must concentrate on the Tues­day, March 20 Illinois primary, which Nanni calls "crucial." In Illinois, as well as in the Pennsylvania and New York primaries in ApriL says Nanni, Hart must ac­cept Mondale's challenge and "show where the beefis." 
Despite  such  uncertainties  about  Hart,  Nanni  
believes  Hart  will  capture  the  Democratic  Party's  
nomination, but not before  

Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside 

the Coloradan's campaign would flounder in the November general election because Hart does not have a strong enough machine to organize a serious chal­lenge to a well entrenched Reagan re-election cam­paign. 
Nanni, however, is not awed by the Reagan machine. 
The tight-fisted Hart organization, which had trouble during the summer paying for photocopies and mailings at the Washington office where Nanni worked, is the same campaign that risked everythingon the Iowa 
caucus and New Hampshire 
the delegates meet in San Francisco in July. 
Hart's wave ofenthusiasm may fall slightly until Tues­day, says Nanni, but the key to victory over Walter Mondale would be Hart's ability to avoid a direct con­frontation with Mondale over such issues as import restrictions. 
Hart, a proponent of free trade, would do poorly in Midwestern states where Mondale's protectionist policies for steel industries capture heavy labor sup­port, says Nanni. 

primary and won that most treasured jewel -press coverage. 
That press, says N"anni, would provide a vchide for the Coloradan to convince the nation it needs a 47<ycar­old chief executive, not a 74-year-old antique. 
But Nanni thinks U.S. voters' image of Hart as the new Kennedy "may be thrown back in his face," un­less Hart is more subtle about his relation to the 35th president. 
Though confident about Hart as a candidate, Nanni 
Hart while campaigning in Michigan yesterday, however, went out on a political tight wire, calling trade protectionism "economic surrender." Mondale returned the charge by accusing Hart of "dan,c:rous defeatism." 
Instead of highlighting such controversial dlllp'ce­ments with Mondale, Nanni believes Hart sbould lkc:r the campaign toward dull issues and concentrate on personality differences between the candidates. 
According to Nanni, Hart must gain a firm alliance with voters under 30 and create a "generational ap­proach" to the campaign. Such a strategy could sap much of Mondale's campaign strength if Hart also succeds in labelling the former vice president "part of the establishment." 
Hart also should woo conservative Democrats to his camp by pledging to upgrade and expand the role of conventional military forces while galvinizing liberal support by supporting a cut in nuclear armaments. 
Critics who think Hart could beat Mondale charge 

ALL LATEST 
DIRECT 
SALES 
COMICS 
also hard to find back issues' AVAILABLE THURSDAY AT 6:00P.M.. 234·1038 
~~~QI~Qil 
STORE 
1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH B£ND. 2.14-1038 O..n: .....n.m.I0-7, Fri. I.... Sat. N 
---!<low open Sunday 12-7 ___, 
EMBROIDERED ON "V" NECKS, JACKETS. CARDIGANS, VESTS,;_ _________AND POLO SHIRTS. _ 
C SEIIOFI££ BROCHURE Mlmt_________________________ 
Address.________________ 
c~--------------------
SIIte Z•P•-------:r 
still has mixed feelings 
about Hart as a Kennedy­esque president who may lack "the ability to lead on the national level and to surround himself with qualified advisors." 
IfHart can tone down his Kennedy image and present some fresh approaches to old ideas, the Colorado senator could boost his campaign with the same tenacity that Wendy's pushes its hamburgers. 
Observer Note 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board or staff. 

.:..,_ 

'.-.......·--·-~~· 
An Tostal beer>i~garten will be on ND caiDpus 
Eye of the Storm ­
, 
Automaker John De Lorean, right ofcenter, is sur­rounded by a horde ofreporters on the steps on the 
APPhoto 
Federal Courthouse in Los Angeles Tuesday. De Lor­ean speaks to reporters during a break in the jur; selection proceedings in his cocaine trafficking trial. 
ByP.A.CIMINO 
News Staff 
This year's An Tostal beer garten 
will be held behind senior bar but 
will only be open to students over 
21, said james Roemer, dean of stu­
dents. 
An Tostal chairman Dave Jakopin and Roemer feel they have come to an agreement which is in the best in­terest of the students and the Uni­versity. 
Said Roemer, "I feel that we have 
reached an amicable decision." 
"Basically. what we did was to tell 
Dave that we agree with his proposal 
to have the beer garten on the 
grounds behind the Senior Bar, 
however, we can not allow anyone 
under 21 near the area." 
For those unfamiliar with the 
developments ofthis year's beer gar­
ten, here is a quick run down: 

• 
Last year Saint Mary's said they would not hold the 1984 beer gar­ten on their campus, so Notre Dame agreed to host the event. 


• 
An Tostal chairman, Dave Jakopin, submitted a proposal to utilize the Senior Bar area and have 


two separate fenced-in sections. Each section would have a tent to serve beverages. One would serve alcohol and the other would serve non-alcoholic drinks. 

• Roemer and the administration refused to grant permission because they felt that the set-up of the beer garten would invite students under 21 to find ways ofprocuring alcohol. ''If we allowed the beer garten to take place in this manner, there would be a possbility that we could lose our license and then there would not be any alcohol on campus," said Roemer. 
During the past week, Roemer and.Jakopin discussed different ways to set up the event and finally arrived at a decsion which they say is best for everyone involved. 
"The beer garten will be an event for seniors and any juniors who are over 21," said Roemer. He added the event could not be held any other way. 
Jakopin said he would have liked to have had an event for students un­der 21, but foresaw difficulty in obtaining University permission. 


IRA political leader shot by outla\ved Protestant group 
Associated Press 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland ­Gunmen firing from a car shot and wounded IRA political leader Gerry Adams yesterday. An outlawed Protestant group claimed respon­sibility, police said. 
Adams, 35, was hit in the neck-and shoulder, had surgery to remove at least one bullet and was in stable co.ldition at Royal Victoria Hospital. Three men with Adams also were hurt, none seriously. 
A police car rammed the gun­men's sedan before it could speed away, and three Protestants were ar­rested. The Ulster Freedom Fighters claimed the attack, said _a police 

is accepting applications for the positions of 

Assistant Features Editor 
and 
Features Copy Editor 
Submit resume to Mary Healy The Observer Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune 

Deadline: 5 p.m. Wednesday, March28 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA &PUB 
"BRUNO'S" 


THIS THURSDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver Y a 16" pizza with 1 topping for only $5.95 Each additional topping $1.00 extra 
Order 2--$1 offtotal price 

Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$1 offtotal price  
Mon -Tllurs 4-.JOPM  Fri-Sat Until12 am 277-4519  2"h..,., ~' Open Sunday 4-10 pm  

spokesman who requested anonymity. 
A senior police officer who asked not to be identified said security forces were preparing for "possible revenge attacks by the IRA." Adams is president of Sinn Fein, the legal political arm of the outlawed Irish Republican Army. 
After the shooting, youths in Cath­olic West Belfast set a bus afire and stoned others, said a police spokes­man who asked for anonymity. He said the trouble was "minor" with no injuries or arrests. 
The shooting followed IRA attacks in the British province in which at least six Protestants have been killed in the last 12 days. 
The almost exclusively Roman Catholic IRA is fighting to drive the British out of the Protestant­dominated province. The guerrillas seek to unite it with the Catholic Irish Republic to end 62 years of partition and establish a socialist all­Ireland state. 
Protestants fear being swallowed up by a Catholic state and oppose a merger. The Ulster Freedom Fighters profess loyalty to British rule. 
The lanky, pipe-smoking Adams has been a key figure in the nationalist movement for more than 10 years. He is an elected member of the British House of Commons but refuses to take his seat there. 
Britain says he is the IRA chief of staff; Adams denies it. He has been 
arrested several times hut never convicted ofany terror crimes. 
He was shot about 500 yards from magistrates' court as he drove away with four others at a lunchtime recess. He is on trial for trying to, stop police from taking down an Irish flag at an election rally. 
Sinn Fein identified the other wounded as veteran nationalist Sean Keenan, shot in the face;Joe Keenan, no relative, and Kevin Rooney. Its finance officer, Bob Murray, was the only one in the car not hit. 
After police rammed the gun­man's car, one of the suspects ap­parently shot himselfor was hit "by a gun discharging in the car," said police spokesman Albert Matchett. Police did not fire any shots. 



Senate approves~'Diilitary·"aid for El Salvador and Nicaraguan rebels 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate Ap­propriations Committee gave Presi­dent Reagan approval for more military aid to El Salvador and anti­leftist guerrillas in Nicaragua yester­day, six days after handing the administration an embarrassing defeat on its Central America policy. 
The aid to the El Salvador regime, fighting a leftist insurrection, would be tied to periodic reports from the president to Congress that the Central American nation is improv­ing its human rights record. 
The committee actions were taken by voice vote on amendments 
Jo a bill for $150 million in emer­gency food aid for Africa. The measure still must be approved by the full Senate. The House, which had passed the Africa bill, must agree to the Central America amend­ments. 
Meanwhile, the House Foreign Af· fairs Committee deferred action on a compromise, embraced by most of its Democratic majority, denying emergency aid for El Salvador in the current fiscal year and placing strict conditions on aid in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. 
Rep. William Broomfield ofMichi­gan, senior Republican on the com­mittee, first moved to delay action 


THURSDAY "SPRING BREAK FEVER" 
3-Spm Mixed Drinks ..... 2 for 1 8-3am 12oz Bttl Braumeister 75¢ 

--gQowef[g ~tt aQQ occagLottg'' 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232-3354 
until after Salvadoran presidential elections this spring, saying there was no chance of reaching a com­promise on aid to El Salvador before the elections. 
But the committee adopted an al· ternative proposed by Rep. Stephen Solarz, D-N.Y., to set aside the Central American portion of the S1 0.78 billion global foreign aid bill for action after the committee finishes work on the rest of the legislation. He said he hoped the committee would "move ex­peditiously on Central America." 
On March 8 the GOP-controlled Appropriations Committee rejected 15-14 Reagan's bid for $21 million in aid to rebels fighting Nicaragua's leftist government. The S93 million emergency money for El Salvador was put off at that time until this week. 
Sentiment on the committee clearly had changed yesterday when the panel rejected, 16-13, a motion by Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, to defer the Salvadoran issue further and hold hearings on it. 
A change in administration tactics and compromises placing condi­tions on approval of the funds ap­parently were responsible for the turnaround. 
An individual in yesterday's page 3 photograph of a studetU senate meeting was incorrectly identified. The student in the photo was Judi­cial Coordinator Bob Gleason. ­The Observer 


Thursday, March 15, l2.~.page 4 

' '1 

Cheat 
continuedfrom page 1 
from different "research assistance" firms and had them evaluated by Notre Dame professors. 
The first paper, bought from Tri­dt.·nt Markl·ting of Toronto, Canada, for S20 was a four-page paper en­titled The Neu• Presidem:y. 
The paper <:arne typt·d completely in capital letters, included no footnotes, an incomplete bibliog­raphy. and the text was plagued by spelling and grammatical errors. Asidt.· from the obvious physical er­rors tht· papt·r sufft.·red from serious content errors as well, according to Prof. Pt-ri Arnold ofthe Govt.·rnmcnt department who graded the paper. 
Tht.· second was a seven-page papt.·r bought for $;'.S from Research Assistants of Los Angeles, California. This papt·r came perfectly typed, with a five sourt.-c bibliography and seven footnotes. The paper, entitled Marxism and Stalinisn, was read 


DuLac 
continuedfrom page 1 
tiJrt.Td. With the nt.·w alcohol policy 
coming out, he's trying to clarify 
policy." 
Judidal Coordinator Bob Gleason 
said the proposed t.·hangc is in no 
way rdatt·d to the coundl. He said 
Roemt.·r wrote it and Roemer 
decides what is nmtained within Du 
Lac. 
(ileason said Rocmt.·r has agreed 
to st.·veralchangcs recommended by 
tht· t·ouncil. The changt.·s include lis­
ting punishments with major of­
li:nst.·s. 
"If tht.· University is going to havt· 
certain pt·nalitit.·s for violations of 
policy, then tht· studt.·nts should bt.· 
aware of the pcnalities. Student~ 
should know what their getting in­
to," Cilt-ason said. 
(ileason said among those punish­
mt.·nts nn·ding daritkation art· 
infractions involving the salt· of 
drugs. prt.·marital sex, and overnight 
parietals. 
Tht.· proposed tt.·xt states, "Providing t(Jr others, by sale or otherwise, mariju;ma or any damag­ing drug. is considnt.·d a serious violation whkh shall result in dis­missal." 
Tht.· prt.·St·nt text dot·s not state tht· punishment. Gkason said since tht· I Jnivt·rsity's policy is expulsion for tht· olft-ncc. the studt.·nts might as well know it. 
tinder the proposed text, stud.:nts caught in tht.· act of premarital sex will rt.·ccivc suspension or dismissal. 
"Overnight parietal violations in­volve suspt·nsion or dismissal," the proposed text states. 
lkan Rot·mer is on vacation and was not available for comment. 

Gleason also announced applica­tions for the position of judicial coordinator arc available for the term bq~inning April I. 
In fact, it was a fairly good paper." beautiful concept. Everybody Reith also commented that he behaves out ofhonor. Ofcourse that probably would not have suspected is idealistic because it presupposes that the paper was plagiarized. that people will follow their sense of 
The fact that these papers are so honor." Roemer added, "a real sense difficult to identify has some profes­of honor and integrity requires one sors worried. "My fear,"said Prof. Ar­to turn in someone who cheats. The nold,"is that this kind of student 'don't squeal' attitude simply doesn't -not a bumbling cheater but a exist in the outside world. In court calculating one-could buy this kind you are required under oath to tell of paper gloss it up a bit, and use it." the whole truth." Arnold also added that, "though it's a O'Meara also likes the idea of an strange, poorly organized paper and honor system, but questions I'd give it a D, I still can't prove that whether or not it would work at it's plagiarized ... We have some­Notre Dame. thing to worry about here." Today the honor system is still in 
use at several universities around 
The Provost's office will take the country, most notably Prin­thesc fears into consideration when ceton, Stanford, the llnivusity of it reevaluates the Academic Code Virginia, and all of the service next year. academies. Even at these schools 
O'Meara stressed the review has however, the system has been nothing to do with increased inci-criticized as out of date. 
A gift of Love and Friendship for more than 400 years Also... Authentic Blackthorn Walking Sticks and Other Irish Gifts 
~~~\\0~\ AGUINAS I=~~~==15
\.OCr-rafepllone 287-1091 




free... 

DOMINO'S PIZZA ... 
AND 2 FREE COKES 
WITH OUR 
3-0AY MOVIE PACKAGE 
111 
3-06Yr A~9~st~LAre~~v~~~~~~~24 gs
TAPE RECORDER AND 3 MOVIES ... ONLY A~iJ WEll GIVE YOU ACOUPOM FOR AFREE DOMINO'S PIZZA & 2COKES! 
4J11Uli/JJJl!llJilllillllulliill\~
VIDEO DISC PLAYER 
'cc.:;.=::'.:::..:=Jj
1'tJ> 1 MOVIE/OVERNIGHT 
,._., .' 
ICAIIDEI


"\ !psii; -59
eustmPUYO 
RENTAL SLIGHTLY HIGHER 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS 
RCA VIDEO 
.itt-. AVAILABLE PLUS £~
CASSI!TTE PLAYER 
1 
..,._ 100's OF MOVIES 1'-q ·~ .. South Bend North 51400 U.S. 31 N. Clock tower Square 
277·8872 
Rome, Italy. 


STUDENTS 

Do You Need a Full Time Summer Job? Do You Live In The Chicago Area? 
SI MARKETING is expanding our Telemarketing 
ales Staff to accomodate additional summer college tudents. In the past, our summer students have arned, on the average, of$150-$525 per week salary ommission during the summer. We offer an extensive raining program, great hours, flexible shift schedule, uaranteed salary, and congenial working atmosphere. 
What's the Catch? 

You must be aggressive, willing to learn, an above average student, and enjoy talking on the phdne. 
;u
CaiLo...a'ollltree number 1-800-621-6426 

before Spri'ng "Break to set up an interview date while you're in 
Chicago during your Spring Break. If accepted, you can lock up 
a summer job ahead of time. Ask for Mr. Davis when calling. 
.1-l. 

~---~ 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Lee Hart, the wife of presidential candidate Gary Hart, said she would do "anything but parachute out of an airplane" to put her husband in the White House." 
"I won't make a fool of myself," she added. Mrs. Hart said her husband's big­gest challenge in the months before 


LSAT 

JUNE18 GMAT 
JUNE16 
THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE CLASSES STARTING­
SOON

[ 



(r.~~.
~o~N 

TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
Stanley H. Kaplan Education Center 1717 E. S. Bend Ave, Ste H. 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
CALL BEFORE SPRING BREAK 
For Information About Other Centers In More Than 120 Major US Cities & Abroad 
OUTSIDE N.Y. STATE CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 
Thursday, March 15, l?84.~JPa~e 5 

Campaignmoves t<~fMidwest 
Associated Press 
Gary Hart told Michigan voters yesterday trade protectionism would be "economic surrender." Walter Mondale accused Hart of "dangerous defeatism" in foreign policy as the Democratic presiden­tial campaign moved from the South to the industrial Midwest. 
Michigan and Illinois will be major battlegrounds in the next six days in what now looks like a long war for the nomination after Hart won three primaries and Mondale two in Super Tuesday primaries. 
Hart also appears to have come out ahead of Mondale in two of five caucus states -Washington and Nevada The two were running a tight race in Oklahoma, and Hawaii Democrats elected to go with an un­committed slate of delegates to the national convention. 
Tabulation procedures were cum­bersomt:.in~ashingt9n, NeviJ,da and Oklahoma and final results still were notdeiu-late yesterday. , ;, 1, 
White House chief o(st,aff Jame.s 

west. Story at right. YH· .' "''' "·''' ''\ '•l''1\y'·,· ·1''·· ~ 
Baker ';; acknowledged ·n, that 


Hart's wifededidtted to campaigll but says won't make fool of herself 
the Democratic convention next July is not to get so tired that he says 
things he doesn't mean. 
"The biggest fear Gary always had is that you can get so tired that you would say something you wouldn't ordinarily say," she said. "It's a real challenge to pace yourself. And it's almost impossible." 
In an interview this week with The Associated Press, Mrs. Hart talked about how she juggles her job as a real estate saleswoman with life on the campaign trail, her two children, press coverage of the presidential race and the two times she and her husband of 25 years have been separated. 
"People who say we got back tQ­gether for political reasons are out­rageous," she said. "Gary and I saw each other through all of this. We were never at each other's throats. And we were back together long before we made a political state­ment ... And we purposefully didn't go out in public together because we wanted to make sure this is what we wanted." 
Mrs. Hart said the couple was separated between the fall of 1979 and the spring of 1980 and again in the fall of 1981. She said that when Hart issued a statement in January 1983 that the couple was reunited, they had been back together for six or eight months: "If we were politi­cal animals, we would have made the announcement the first day. In the end, I was frustrated we let the statement go so long." 
Mrs. Hart said she has been 
campaigning for her husband for 14 
months, crisscrossing the country to 
visit with voters in churches, 
schools, factories, restaurants, 
daycare centers and living rooms. 
Her message: "I try to give people an understanding of who Gary is, and I talk issues. I talk about the leadership he has given in the last I 0 years." 
She said she doesn't discuss what 
projects she would involve herself 
in as first lady. "It would be 
presumptuous," she said. 
Mrs. Hart said the capital's politi­cal punditsfailed to predict that Hart would outdistance former front­runner Walter F. Mondale because they didn't go out and find out what people were thinking. 
"They stayed in their cubbyholes and listened to each other and believed each other." she said."You have to get out and talk to people ... it boggles one's mind that people who should know better didn't un­derstand what happened this year." 
Mrs. Hart, who was 48 last February, said she has been ! teal estate saleswoman in the Washing­ton area for seven years, specializing in houses in Maryland and the Dis­trict ofColumbia 
Sheila Peck, a spokeswoman for the Coldwell Banker real estate company which employs Mrs. Hart, said she has sold more than S 1 mil­lion worth ofhouses in the last year. 
"I wish she hadn't said that," Mrs. Hart said. "That doesn't mean I made that much money." 
The Harts met as students at Bet­hany Nazarene College in Oklahoma and were married in August 1958 before moving to Connecticut where Hart studied law. She helped put im through Yale Law School by teaching high school English and drama. 
Sally Henkle, who has been a close friend since the early 1960s, said Mrs. Hart works hard to keep her life balanced. 
S.U. takes you to O'Hare $10.00 
Buses from Main Circle to Chicago March 15 -4:00p.m. March 16 -11:30 a.m. 
...,.~~ 
Tickets avaUable at the SU Ticket/Record Store 

Republicans wouldn't mind seeing a both headed there yesterday to cam­long struggle for the Democratic p:;.ign. Hart will spend most of the nomination with Mondale emerging n•:xt three days there seeking sup­
as the winner; "well, I wouldn't say pJrt for the March 20 primary. that we would be totally unhappy if Sen.John Glenn ofOhio spent yes­that happened. You know, that hap­terday wondering whether to pened in reverse back in 1976 when withdraw after failing to get the you had a long, bloody primary be­votes he hoped for in three Southern tween Gov. Reagan and President primaries and facing a debt of more Ford with the result that while Presi­than $2 million. dent Ford was able nevertheless to ... Former South Dakota Sen. George make a pretty good race in the McGovern did withdraw from the general election, he was defeated in race after a poor finish in Massachu­that race." setts and was considering whether 
Mondale looks strong in Michigan to endorse another candidate, and because key support from the how to best influence the party. United Auto Workers should help in The Rev. Jesse Jackson did better the Saturday's caucus. than expected in Georgia and 
Hart agreed; "I think it would be Alabama, but expressed disappoint­very difficult to win." ment with other black leaders who Illinois looked much tighter as supported Mondale 

Senate attempt to vote on :f·,school prayer fails 
~ ~ , . 
-
Associated Press1 · : 1 -:•. 
·. ' WASHINGTON -A bid to· set a 
Senate vote soon on a proposed 'con­
stitutional ·school prayer amend­
ment fell apart yesterday when one 
senator said he was being denied the 
right to vote on anything but the ver­
sion President Reagan wants. 
Senate Majority Leader Howard 
Baker, R-Tenn., sought unanimous 
consent to set a vote today on a 
proposal strongly favored by Reagan 
allowing vocal organized prayer in 
the nation's classrooms. 
Baker's request would have per­
mitted no amendments other than 
one added by theJudiciary Commit­
tee, which would bar government 
officials from composing any school 
prayer. The Senate voted 96-0 yes­
terday for that amendment, backed 
by Reagan. 
But Sen. Alan Dixon, D-111., 
protested, saying he wanted to offer 
a proposal allowing only silent 
prayer and meditation and 
guaranteeing equal access to public 
facilities by voluntary religious 
groups. 
Bak.,r's reauest"h., said "narrows 
-r'/ ., • -..... ~~.. ~ .... 
the issue to a single up-or-down vote 
on the president's request in the ter­
minology the president and his sup­
porters want ... with no opportunity 
for the Senate to discuss all the other 
important questions." 
"This senator stands for silent 
prayer in the public schools. This 
senator does not support audible, vocal prayer ... or the concept by which some prayer can be written by anybody. What (Baker) wants to do is narrow a major debate in this country affecting hundreds of mil­lions of people to one question," 

Dixon said. 

Unable to win agreement for a vote on the Reagan-backed proposal only, Baker said he would begin scheduling votes on amendments. He said he felt compelled to try to schedule a final vote after 10 days of Senate debate on the issue because "you can negotiate forever, but final­ly a jury will make a judgment. We can argue here ... but finally the Senate must work its will, and it's time to begin that." 
Baker said, "If it fails, it fails," ad­
ding that while he doesn't know ifhe 
has the votes for passage, "I think we 
have a chance." 

Sen. Lowell Weicker, R-Conn., 
leading opposition to any amend­
ment, said he was ready for a vote, 
provided it was only on the version 
supported by Reagan permitting vo­
cal prayer. Weicker has said he 
believes he has the votes to defeat 
that version. 

But he has been unwilling to allow 
a vote on a silent-prayer-only ver­
sion because several senators say 
they could support that, but not a 
version allowing vocal prayer. 

An amendment needs a two-thirds 
vote in each House -67 in the 
Senate -and ratification by three­
fourths ofthe states, or 38. 


Meyer 
continuedfrom page 1 
my class rank," she said. 
Enrolling at Saint Mary's in 1980 as a Presidential Scholar, Meyer maintained it was the best decision she could have made. "I wanted a small college with large college facilities, and it was the closest to home of all the schools I applied to. 

Besides, I wanted to play  basket­ 
ball."  
An  outstanding  high  school  

player, Meyer played her first two years for the Belles, but found she wanted more time to get involved in other aspects of the College. 
An R.A. in Holy Cross hall for the past two years, Meyer has been active in Campus Ministry and the Alcohol Educaton Council. 
Meyer will follow family tradition this fall and attend St.Louis llniver­sity Medical School, where two of her brothers are currently enrolled. 
What does the Student union 
Record Store have for .me? 
Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price Any record or tape may be ordered 
--takes 4-5 days NO EXTRA CO~)T Blank tapes: TDK SA 90's 2 pk--$6.00 1--$3.25 TDKSA60's 2 pk--$4.50 1--$2.60 Maxell UDXL ll's 2 pk--$7.00 1--$3.75 
Postage Stamps 

Showcase Thursday, March 15, 1984 -page J 
Miss Manners 

Children, do your duty 
by Judith Martin 
Bdore the objective ofchild rearing came to he producing a hap­
py child, it was producing a dutiful one. Miss Manners does not 
notice any increase in the number of happy children, nor in the 
happiness level ofchildrt·n, since the switch. 
Perhaps it is because the satisfaction ofhaving done one's duty is 
unknown to children whose parents arc always nagging them to do 
whatever makes them happy, an annoying request ifever there was 
one. Miss Manners does not claim that this is higher on the scale of 
satisfactions than, say, gt·tting om·'s own telephone line, but it is 
fulfilling nevertheless. 

And the child who is taught that "not everything has to he fun" is 
more likely to know what fun is when he sees it. 
Here, then, is a child's list of lings that are not fun to do on a rainy 
day, and still less fun on a sunny day, but which must he done at cer­
tain times because they are one's duty. Parents are welcome to try to 
convince children that they're all really jolly, hut it won't be easy. 
•Visiting, 
behaving well for and even pretending to enjoy the com­pany ofcantankerous or otherwise unpkasant relatives. To find cer­tain relatives difficult, boring or repulsive is not unnatural, hut does not <:hange the fact that they an: relatives. Grown·ups are allowed to start family feuds hut children cannot, and therefore must be agrn·ahk to all relatives upon the request of their own parents. 

•Attending, 
dressed as requested, and ht·having respectfully at whatevt·r religious st·rvices the part·nts decree. 

•Answering 
all invitations immt·diately, and writing prompt and imaginative kttt·rs ofthanks for presents not given in person and for hospitality exceeding the simple overnight·in-slcc::ping bags-that is, Wl'l'kl·nd and holiday visits. "Imaginative," in this case::, means that the body oftht· letter cannot start with the words "Thank you for the:: ..." 

•Treating 
the sick compassionately, which indudes note or visits to sick friends or relatives, and rdraining from saying "yuck" at their wounds or claiming to he made:: ill oneself by sickrooms. 

•Suspending 
their own recreational activities when there is a death dose:: in the family, and learning to consider the bereaved­by writing or visiting-rather than their own distaste:: for the evem, wlwn somc::onc:: thc::y have:: known wdl has died. 

•Taking 
part in the chores of their houst·holds, not only upon direct <:ommand -it is as much ofa chore for a parent to nag som<·onc to do !>omething as to do tht· work -but because they ac­knowkdge it is necessary to contribute to the estahlishmcnt, as well as to reap its hcnt·fits. 

•Au:epting, 
with some cheerfulness, the fact that there arc duties to lx· pcrformt·d in life, that no one is truly crazy about them, and that the less !>aid about many the better. This means eschewing the dassic whine, "Aw. do I have to?" and its companion, "But Idon't feel like it," which carries the annoying suggestion that the child, unlike tht· adult, is disuiminating enough to know the dift'ercnce between pkasurt· and duty, and sensitive enough to he allowed the special privilt:gt· ofenduring only the former. 


/)ear Miss /Hanners -I am a divorn-c with three children, ran­ging from four to 12, and I don't want to bring them up to think that lovt· is somt·thing tketing, and ndiscriminatt• sex is pt·rfcctly OK. In spite of my unhappy marriage and another relationship that didn't work out, I belkve in monogamy and I pray that they will all make good marriages somt· day. I am trying to bring them up to avoid some of tht· mistakes I sulkred from. 
But, listt·n, I'm only human. I get lonely, and it's not realistic to think that I'm going to datt·tht· way Idid hdore I was married. There art· not that many guys around for someone like me, and they're not going to ht· tht· ont·s who want to sit and hold hands in the movies forever. Ami it's not just them; it's me too. 
So what do Ido without settinga had example' I've tried spending 
the night out. hut Idon't havt· a baby sitter I trust, and the few times I 
did it I was so nt-rvous about tht· kid!> I didn't enjoy myself. Finally, I 
had a guy stay on·r ;n my place and had him sneak out before the kids 
wt·n· up. But ht· madt' a racket, and my eldest gave me a funny look 
wht·n I said it was tht· man who comes to read the meter. 
Frankly, I want to havt· him stay over again, even though it will 
probably ncvt·r be anything serious. What is the proper behavior for 
a mother who wnats to tead1 her kids the right thing hut can't live 
likl· a nun? The kids an· no dopes. 

Gentle Reader -No childrt·n art·. to the extent that they do not t•ventually figurt· mil that thl'ir parents have experienced st·x, at least tht· sanw number of times as there are children in the family. It is, however, in tht• naturt· ofeven bright <:hildren to assume that this was accomplished as fastidiously a.~ possible and with no untoward enjoyment. 
Do not join in this speculation or abet it in any way, such as flirting in front oftht· children. Neither should you keep things interesting by surprising them as to who will come to breakfa.~t. 
Invite your friend to arrive before the children go to bed and treat him, in front of them, as any non·romantic friend. What you do after you put tht· children to bed, Miss Mmnt·rs will not ask. If the childrt·n ask, the response is, "We wt·re visiting. It got late and he stayed over." You are not allowed to smile or he otherwise coy when you say this. It is a great mistake to open a part·nt's life for the inspec· tion of the childrt·n -would you, ifyou were married? -and a worse one to deprive them ofthe comfort ofbelieving that no matter what Motha does, it couldn't possibly, because of her dignified age and position, he exciting. 
Movies 



'Reckless' is really too cautious 
by John Geelan 
features staffwriter 
A 
run-down scenic area overlook­
ing a depressed mill town is the 
setting for the first scene in the 
movie "Reckless." An empty can of 
Iron City beersiHing three feet from 
the edge ofthe overlook is the target 
ofjohnny Rourke and his motor­
cycle. Releasing the clutch, johnny 
speeds toward the edge, only to 
bralle into a side skid at the last pos­
sible moment, thereby knocking the 
can to the rocks below. Johnny 
Rourke, played competently by 
Aidan Quinn, is by any one's assess­
ment a reckless young man. 
In thisjames Foley-directed movie, Rourke is a high school senior who has all the bad breaks Hollywood could think of. Not only has his mother long since left home but he is thrown out ofthe house by his alcoholic father. In school Rourke is indifferent while on the football field he is the unsung hero, delivering the key block that lets somebody else win the game. A loner, Rourke is a part ofthe football team on the field but not off it. His real uniform and equipment arc his faded jeans, black leather jacket, and motorcycle. Ifthis all seems a Ia 
James Dean that's because it is. The one thing that shines through the 
stereotype is the deepness of Rourke's dissatisfaction with his life. Rourke has no hope for himselfin this dying town which can only hope for better times. The scene at the overlook is repeated several times during the movie. Each time he moves the can closer to the edge and taunts death that much more. He is bent on brealdng away from the town one way or another. 
Then there is Tracy, an uptown girl unhappy she has everything. Actress Daryl Hannah malles a fine attempt to breall through the cardboard character written for her and at times she shines. More often, however, her character is shallow and predictable. Tracy, ofcourse, is a blond, blue-eyed cheerleader going out with the quarterback of the football team. Until now she has been the eighties version ofmommy and daddy's sweet little girl but now she no longer wishes to play the part. The things and people, par· ticularly her boyfriend, who relate to most ofher feelings, have stifled her life. Here is Rourke and Tracy's common ground -the urge to breall the tics that bind them to the paths their lives seem destined to talle. They both want something 

more and through the magic of movies become that something for each other. After some very visual love scenes there is a period of un­certainty. In the end however, to no one's surprise (certainly not the audience's) the two lovers ride off into the sunset ... clap, clap. 
If this whole story sounds familiar it's because it has been done before and done better. The film becomes so predictable in regards to the plot that "Reckless" would have been more accurately titled "Cautious." The fact that it is an old plot line with very few innovations docs not necessarily doom any film. The Rocky pictures are good examples ofold stories with strong characters we are made to care about that combine to mallc great movies. This unfortunately is not the case withI "Reckless." After initially introdut-· ing us to interesting people, Foley lets them fall so hopelessly into stereotypes that they become hard to believe. This being the case it is difficult to care what happens to them. 
The soundtrack gives a helping hand to this movie. Songs by Kim Wilde, INXS, and Bob Seger help move the story along and give the audience a sense ofthe characters' revolt. Overall however, the music has only a dressing effect, like mo­tion lines on a mediocre drawing. 


A poetry both salty and sweet 
by Melita Schaum 
guestfeatures writer 
"There is as much sugar in my 
body as there's salt," poet Derek Walcott once said, "as much cane as surf, because they're where I'm from." So, too, with his poetry, which talles its nature from Wal­cott's native West Indies, balancing the "sugar" oflush, scnuous descrip­tions with the "salt" ofa keen eye on the modern world. 
Walcott has been called "a mas­ter," "one ofthe most talented poets ofhis generation now writing in America," "a writer at his prime." But recognition has eluded this writer for much ofhis four-decade career as playwright and poet. It is predominantly with his three most recent books ofpoetry -"The Star· Apply Kingdom" ( 1979), "The For­tunate Traveller" ( 1981 ), and "Midsummer" ( 1984)-that Wal­cott has moved forward into a deser­vedly central place in American letters. 
Walcott's (X>etry displays a range ofstyles, meters. shapes oflanguage, from free narrative to traditional couplets, from the fragmented descriptive shards ofearly reminis­cences like "Sabbaths, W.l." to the swelling, sultry meditations of "Midsummer." There is a sense of epic expanse in much of his (X>etry: his (X>ems sweep cultures and glean from history and literature a unique richness ofallusion and rhythm. Greece, Rome, and ancient Egypt are called up in his poems; his lines are peopled with figures as disparate as Ovid and Cezanne, Homer and 
Joseph Conrad, Helen ofTroy and Gauguin's coppered nudes. But despite expansive allusions, Wal­cott's grandeur remains a grandeur of the earth, ofeveryday life: "Epic follows the plough, metre the ring of the anvil ...." 
Born on the island ofSaint Lucia, Walcott was bred among a medley of heritages. For centuries the Islands have been a tangle ofcultures, 
idioms, races, and the incongruities ofimperialism imposed on a place once seen as "paradise." In the poem "The Schooner Flight," Walcott voices the snarl oftraditions that come together in him: 
I'm just a red nigger who loves the sea, I had a sound colonial education, I have Dutch, nigger, and English in me, and either I'm nobody, or I'm a nation ... 
But iflanguage names the self, it also names the world-in Walcott's case, no Edenic island paradise, but a land divided by racial and class ten­sions, politics, the continual insult of tourism: "I know these islands from Monos to Nassau ... saw when these slums ofempire was paradise." The imperialism which "poisons" the Is­lands runs through Walcott's "The Star-Apple Kingdom" in images of airstrips, discos, the yachts which "stiffly repeat themselves," taxis and loud-shirtcd sun-seekers riddling "The tourist archipelagos ofmy South." 
In "The Fortunate Traveller," Wal­cott's landscape becomes even wider, encompassing a modern world snared in racism, cruelty, Third World horrors, the inhuman game ofpolitical and economic chess the stallcs ofwhich arena­tions. It is a time marked by the death ofGod and by man's ques­tionable succession to power ­"not Anno Domini: After Dachau," Walcott declares in the title poem of the collection. The poet-figure here becomes a combination of traitor, spy, exile, a figure hunted by con­science and by the sadness ofa world in which 
The heart ofdarkness is not Africa. The heart ofdarkness 
is the core offire 

in the white center  
of the holocaust.  
The heart ofdarkencss  
is the rubber claw  
selecting a scalpel in  "  
antiseptic light,  •·  
the hills ofchildren's shoes  ~  

outside the chimneys .. : 
But Walcott's keen awareness of modern inhumanity is not a gestu're ofnihilism or despair. Walcott's 
world includes beauty amid the hor­ror; he is intimate with dazzling details ofnature: a harbor crealling open "on the rusty hinge ofa gull," Russian plains "as hard and open as a herdsman's face/sun-cracked and stubblcd with unshaven snow," Caribbean beaches where "White sanderling.-; race the withdrawing surfto pick/with wink-quick stabs, the shellfish between the pebbles." Walcott's world is rich, and in its richness as impervious to corrup· tion as "the jungle's furious seed" cracking through the macadam of colonial roads. 
In the concluding poem of"Thc Fortunate Traveller," Walcott engages in a fantasy about "The Season ofPhanta.smal Peace," a short peace brought by "all the nations of birds" who, partly in "'pity for the wingless ones/below them," partly driven by an almost migratory im· pulse of"Love,/made seasonless," for an instant lift off the net ofsor­rows from the world: and this season lasted one 
moment, like the pause between dusk and darkneess, between fury and peace, but, for such as our earth is now, it lasted long. 
It is a momentary harmony, like that which the (X>cm itselfcreates: bittersweet in its brevity, bu always necessarily so. In the end, it is not the ospreys, starlings, ravens, and wild geese ofthe poem whose flight is so successful. For Derek Walcott, it is "the nouns that find their branches as simply as birds" which are startled into magical flight by the (X>et's craft. 
L____ __ 



~i~~~{)__l_._Jl__t_________________Th_ur-sda-y,_M-~c-h-15,-19-84_~_pag_e_7 
Reinstate fired North Dining Hall workers 
Despite a security investigation which found no evidence that two dining hall workers extorted money from a co-worker, Notre Dame has yet to reinstate the five North Dining Hall employees who were fired last November. The case itselfis closed, investigators say. 
Notre Dame, as it does so often, has chosen to hide from bad publicity and ignore the gross injustice in­flicted upon the two dining hall workers and three 
managers. 
The three managers were dismissed Nov. 22 because they should have known what was going on, according to Director ofUniversity Food Services William Hickey. All three have since experienced career-related problems. 
jessie Broadnax, who had worked for the University for I 4 years, is still without a job. At 52, and with limited education, she faces more than an uphill battle to get work to support her family. 
Bill Hedge, a man with 25 years of service with the Army, holds a job at which he makes less than half of what,. he had made as North Dining Hall production manager. 
Bob Smith faces a situation similar to Hedge -he, too, now holds a job which pays less than half of his former salary. A father of two Notre Dame students, Smith faces additional problems. His sons can attend Notre Dame only because Smith's 14 years at Notre Dame provide for two-thirds of their tuition. Without such a grant, both sons probably will have to leave. 
The situation is equally glum for the two pantry workers accused ofextorting money. 
Ann Harris, who had worked for food services for nine years, last week lost her home and was forced to move to California to live with her sister. 
Ada Peate, whose career has been ruined by being accused of taking money from Barbara Davis, is still without a job or a recommendation for another job. 
Auniversity which preaches justice and peace should not fire five workers without just cause. There was "no evidence ofany wrongdoing" on the part of Harris and Peate, according to William Hedl, a security inves­tigator for the University. Even Davis, who says she was victimized, mentioned that she could not "figure out why they (the managers) even got fired." Davis says no other workers knew about the incident she speaks of. 
If the University had a case against Harris and Peate, why weren't the police called in? Ifthe University had no case, why were the two workers fired (to say nothing ofthe three managers)? And why wasJohn Gerrity, the manager of the North Dining Hall at the time, trans­ferred to the South Dining Hall immediately after the five were fired? 
It is time for Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh and the University to practice what they preach. A university which awarded Lech W alesa an honorary degree for his devotion to worker's rights can­not be taken seriously when it fires its own workers without good reason. 
If the University is unwilling to reinstate the fired workers, perhaps it should ask Lech Walesa to return his honorary degree. 
-The Observer 

The suntan: a mark of achievement 
CorJe in home base. Come in plc::ase. 
We've just touched down on Earth in an area of North America called Indiana, ap­parently at an educational institution ofsome sort. It seems much like the ones back on our home planet, with one very odd exception. A 
Mike Skelly 
Back again 
great many ofthe students seem to be about to depart on a long trip south to a place called Florida, where they hope to imbibe much al· cobol, sec their friend<> and enjoy the warm weather. 
This seems reasonable enough. but the most curious thing about this annual phenomenon is that an important aspect of this trip is the acquisition ofsomething called a sun tan. 
It seems many of these creatures believe that sun-tanned skin is more anractive than the lighter variety. This seems peculiar to us especially as we have noted that in many parts of the world dark skin is a sign of outdoor 
New Orleans 
ear Editor: 
After reading Paul McGinn's column on 

Mardi Gras (March 6), I would like to ask 
McGinn this question: Where are you really 
rom Paul? I cannot think ofany other native of New Orleans who could possibly create such a narrow, distorted view of the city and of its pre-Lenten celebration of Mardis Gras. 
New Orleans can hardly be labelled a powder-puff city. New Orleans is one of the nation's busiest ports, is home to Shell Oil's second largest U.S. headquarters and is busy completing preparations for the upcoming World's Fair. New Orleans still maintains a relaxed pace of life which has prompted its inhabitants to nickname it "The Big Easy." 
In addition to all these facts, New Orleans also is the home ofa unique blend ofcultures which shines through in the city's famous ar· chitecture and cuisine. This Southern blend of French and Spanish tradition gives the city an attractive atmosphere and distinguishes it from other "superpower cities ofthe South." 
1 also would like to pose this question to McGinn: After living in New Orleans for so long and having had so many years to realize labor and is considered decidedly unat­tractive. 
Interested, we ventured to this university's library in search of some sort of an explana· tion for this quirksome behavior. Sure enough. we found what seemed to be a plausible answer in a book called The Theory ofthe Leisure Class by one Thorstein Veblen. This fellow postulates that the leisure classes, that is the economically well to do, need not merely possess wealth and power, "but these two must be put in evidence." 
The upper classes show their wealth primarlybynotengaginginanysortofmanual labor which they consider to be, says Veblen, "vulgar, debasing and demeaning." Fur­thermore he notes that the abstention from manual labor must be conspicuous and very clear to all the other not so fortunate mem­bers of society. Therefore "conspicuous abstention from labor becomes the conven­tiona mark of superior pecuniary achieve­ment," (i.e. making more money.) 
It seems that the leisure class here is 
particularly fond of showing its abstention 
from labor in its personal appearance. The do the least work) tend to dress in suits that would render any sort of physical effort im­possible. 
The leisure class sets the standards for taste and beauty, says Veblen, and therefore is able to tell the rest ofsociety what looks good. This has been observed in ancient China where in· tellectuals often grew long fingernals, osten­sibly as a thing of beauty and refinement but perhaps more truthfully as a sign that they engaged in no manual labor. 
Well what has all this to do with sun tans? 
Well, great deal as we shall see, Headquarters. 
We flew over to the library again and did some research on sun tans, and discovered that the penchant for dark skin is only a relatively recent phenomenon here in America Just as we had guessed, it has only come into vogue in the last 50 years or so. Before then, lily-white skin was the thing, as most people worked outdoors and inevitably got tanned Only the rich stayed indoors and preserved their rosy-pink complexions, which they declared to be beautiful. 
It seems that as the economy changed so that more and more people worked indoors, 
m=e::.n:...w:..:..::h:.::o:...:m::::ak::e:....:th:.:e:..::m:::o:::s:::t:...:m:::;o:::n::e.:..y~(._;;b:.:u:::t.!pe:.::::r::h=ap~s::__o_n_ly::...._th_e_w_e_II_-t-:o--d_o_c_o_u_ld_th_e_n_affi_o_rd_to_spe::..._n_d 


P. 0. Box"Q 
the immorality of Mardi Gras, why do you continue to leave Notre Dame every year to be a part of this celebration which "typifies the city's racism, sexism and materialism"? 
Stephen Ross 

Satiric cartoon 
DearEditor: 
Over the past few days two letters have questioned a March 6 cartoon depicting a Jewish rabbi handing Rev. JesseJackson a gift­wrapped watermelon. Both letters viewed the cartoon as racially prejudiced. 
The point ofthe cartoon was not to express the cartoonist's opinion of racial stereotypes, but rather to "face" Rev. Jackson for his racial slur. I don't know whether either of the two editorial authors read the news, but Jackson admitted his guilt to calling Jews "hymies" and New York "hymieville." Ifone noticed the 
expression ofthe rabbi's face, the obvious im­pression was on of a gloating "how does it feel?'' 
Ifanything, the cartoon was anti-prejudice as it demonstrated that we are all guilty at one timeoranotherofsomesortofprejudice,and that it hurts when it's aimed at you. 
I realize there are still a large number ofig­
norant people who stereotype and shun 
entire groups of human beings. I too fear that 
people will graduate from Notre Dame and 
other institutions and still use racial slurs. 
Bigotry is the most disgusting attitude a per­
son can hold, but that is because ofthe malice 
and thoughts of evil that are inherent in it. 
Humor, however, especially political humor, 
merely twists around the inconsistencies and 
blunders of certain people. It is my opinion 
that this was the purpose of the March 6 car­
toon. 
Paul G. Schloemer 

Women's week 
DearEditor: 
The University of Notre Dame should be commended for acknowledging National Women's History Week. 
I find the manner in which the University lauded women's contributions quite amusing -a lecture entitled "Marriage and the Clois­ter, 500-900 A.D." It's unfortunate that the lecture was cancelled because of an act of God. Mary O'Brien 
j a great deal of time outside. It was only then 
that white skin came out of fashion and tans 
became "in." 
There are still those who work outside, but 
as their work often precludes the sporting of 
bathing suits, they develop an inferior variety 
of sun tan. Appropriately enough, this lesser, 
incomplete form has been dubbed a "farmer's 
tan," one not nearly so beautiful as the bathing 
suit variety. 
We've also discovered what great expense 
these Americans go to acquire their beloved 
tans. Despite the warnings of their doctors 
that tans are terrible for their skin, they spend 
millions of dollars a year on various lotions 
and creams just to achieve the proper hue. 
In the middle ofwinter, the leisure class of 
much of the Northeast spends thousands of 
dollars to fly south and lay about in the sun. 
They then delightedly return to praises from 
their friends ofooh what a beeyootiful tan. 
We've even heard reports of this nation's 
recent invasion of a small island just to 
preserve a prime tanning spot. 
Whew! These humans are funny creatures 
indeed. 
o_v_e_r_an_d_o_u_t_. 
1 


Spring break 
DearFellow Students: 
Another spring break is upon us, and I hope it will be enjoyable and relaxing for all ofyou. Every time students leave the University to head ho.me, Florida and elsewhere, the chance ofserious c3.I accidents and injuries increases. 
Therefore, please use your best judgment when travelling. If you've been drinking, please don't drive, as you risk the threat of a DWI charge and you endanger yourself and others. Similarly, if you're driving and have not had enough sleep, pulling over to nap for a few hours orstopping at a motel would be one ofthe wisest precautions you'll ever take. 
Finally, considering some of the problems which resulted last year, try to maintain some semblance of decorum when in public. It might be helpful to remind you that should you decide to display any of your assets in public, you and your assets could be in serious trouble. Enough said. Have good breaks and enjoy your time away from academia. You deserve it. 
Brian Callaghan Student Body President 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

P. 0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
The Obsenlff is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l:ni­vcrsity of Notre Dame du lAC and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac· curately and a<> objectively as possible. t:nsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters. and the Inside Column present the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to alf'm1e~~rs i1fthe ~ommunity, and the free expression ofvaryingopinionsoncampus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide NewsEditor.................................... Mark Wqrscheh Saint Mary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan ViewpointEditor................................Keith Picher Ft!atures Editor............................... Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor.......................................... Scott B•1wer 
DepartmentManagers 
Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen Controller...............................................Alex Szilvas Ad1•ertising Manager.........................Jeanie Poole Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto \)•stems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3, 1966 

-----------------------------·----------------. 
't'·ri9c (
gM} • i·H(J 1 .? 1 riTa. til .'{LfJ"''HJrfT 
Thursday, March ts;·t98r-page 8 
-·• ,. -



SportS Briefs 
Son of famed elder 
-~· ' . 

Clemente, Jr. reports to training 
Associated Press said Larry Rojas, the Phillies' coor­ditioning with the catchers and 
dinator of minor league instruction. pitchers and then we'll send him to wlll be held on Saturday, March 31, at a time and place to be an­
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups 
CLEARWATER, Fla. -Roberto He said the Phillies would judge the cage for batting practice," Rojas nounced after Spring Break. Women may play in the men's tourna· 
Clemente Jr. reported to the Clemente strictly on talent: "He's said. ment. -The Obseroer 
Philadelphia Phillies' minor league here because we think he's a good spring trammg camp yesterday prospect." He said reports from the scout determined to make a name in his Asked why he hadn't signed with who signed Clemente as a free agent own right. the Pirates, Clemente said, "They were that the youngster was a line­
"I know people know me now be-didn't show any interest in me." cause of my father and not of Clemente said there were ad­drive hitter with a chance to have myself," said the 18-year-old son of vantages and disdvantages to some power eventually.
Freshman Kathy Skendzel quatified an an the Pittsburgh Pirates' long-time i bearing the name of a player as sue­individual for National Ski Competition at Divisionals two weekends right fielder. "They think of me as cessful as his father: "An advantage isago. She will compete at Steamboat, Colorado, this weekend. -The Roberto Clemente, not Clemente, that because people loved my father
Obseroer 
~" ~~~~~~~~~ 


Tennis
The elder Clemente died in a real nice to me. A disadvantage is 
plane crash Dec. 31, 1972, just off that people want me to do the same the coast of Puerto Rico en route to things he did. They compare me earthquake-stricken Nicaragua to with him." 

continued/rom page J2 deliver medical supplies. He said he didn't think his family
Start warming up for the NVA tennis tournament. 
Winner of four National League connection would work a hardship giving Notre Dame a much needt:dEach hall may enter one team and the entry deadline is Wednesday, batting titles, Clemente was voted in his effort to establish his own victory.
April 4. More details will be given here at a later date. -The Ob­into the Hall of Fame in 1973 after a career: "He did what he had to do,
Sertler 

rule was waived req1,1iring a player played hard, the best he could. "We're going to have a lot of 5-4 
., 
;rn to b'~' I retirtd . five years b.ffore .',!hat's all I c~p do, play t.~~ best l call. matches this year," said Fallon. "But 

. ' l
becomingeligible. · ._We're different bodies. I'm really 'Ye can hold our own 'fl'ith just ~bout 
. •'l\t· ,,
)ri= 
Young Clemente, who hit·.315 in ·proud ofmy father and all p~ 4id b~.t anybody."
~l~~1 
': ·~~I
!. n 
a Puerto Rican league equivalent to I'm not trying to live up to'him." · ' I 
l)~ .
i 

Class AA ball, arrived at camp early He said he doesn't remember Tomorrow the tennis team kaves 
..ll• )
'1•' 

with pitchers and catchers so he much about his father's play. for Florida with a 2-3 record ~r its 
could familiarize himself with his "I was only 6 when he died," first outings on outdoor courtZ: The milt: race around campus, the lakes, and the golfcourse. It's coming 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Rut{ a six· 
new surroundings. Clemente recalled. "But I've been experience should be a sobering up after Spring Break. Trophies, t-shirts, and prizes will be awarded. 
"I'm glad to get a chance and I'll carrying a bat around since I was in one for the young Irish, who will be 
work hard to get to the major diapers." playing eight matches in nine days, leagues," he said. Rojas said although Clemente has including eighth-ranked tennis He apparently has a good shot at done some catching, he would be an powerhouse Miami on Tuesday. doing so. outfielder and probably would be as­"He's a very good outfielder, runs signed to Sarasota, Fla., in the rookie Notre Dame's first match after well, throws pretty good and a hit," league. "He'll go through the con-break is against Valparaiso. 
-The Obsert'er 

The Observer Notre: Dame: office:, located on the: third floor of Lafortune: 
·Student Center, accepts classified advc:nising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office:, lol·atcd on the: third floor of Haggar College: Center, accepts classificds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline: for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classific:ds must be prepaid, c:ithc:r in person or by mail. Charge: is I 0 cents pc:r five: charal··




Classifieds 
ters erda . 
NOTICES 

ENOUGHIll Hey guys. cool rt w1th the sweats and tack· ets. okay? It was ONLY the Uberty 6owl! 
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 2n.eo45. W/pick up & deliver 
ATTENTION CLASS OF 1987111 VOTE THE HAPPENIN' TICKET FOR 1984·85! Wnte us 1n for sophomore class oligarchy, so we can put It on our resumes ·TOMMY MCHUGH ·MIKIE O'GRADY ·DANNY TANCZOS ·STEVIE KRANZ DEDICATED TO LAZINESS AND APATHY FOR '114-'85 
"QUEST FOR GOLD" Charity lash1on show sponsored by the Sophomore Class Tuesday. March 27, 8:00p.m.-ACC Monogram Room· $3.00 Tickets available at the door 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES mghl cocktail wa•tress.day waitperson, day utility APPLY WHARF RESTAURANT 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MAS COKER 233·7009 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MAS COKER 233·7009 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST; STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. ALL WOOL, PULLOVER, I LOST IT 2 OR 3 WEEKS AGO. IF FOUND, RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND ON FIRST FLOOR OF AD· MIN BLDG. OR CALL BUDDY AT 8278 ANYTIME REWARD THANK YOU. ST. A.P.F.U 
Lost: Prescnptlon Sunglasses. Brown Aay·Ban Wayfarer Frames W/ Purple Tinted AX Lenses. 11 you can 'I see wI them on, they're probably m1ne. CASH REWARD. Call Bo at1615 
LOST Wallet/pouch Maroon, leather, Zipper Dnver's license and Cahl. I.D. enclosed. Last seen Monday (3/5) p.m. in B.P. Mary283-1992 
I lost my Notre Dame class nng·class of 1985,initials engraved RAH it was a Chnsmas gin from a very spec1al person· much sentimental value Please call Bob at1010 or return to Lost & Found. 
LOST. One pa1r of BLACK SKI GLOVES 
either 1n the Art Bldg. or 1n the Business 
Bldg or anywhere around there. Desperately needed aas w1nter IS still upon beautiful South Bend. Please call Steve at8428 1n the even1ngs LOST?? Navy blue NO plastic bill lold­SMC Clubhouse-Sat 1 Oth-AIIID's-driver's license.exchange card,student IO,m1nister card, etc please return them-I NEED them lor break.·Mary Rose 7852 
Lost·gold Arm1tron d1g1tal watch wed. mght March 7 at the ACC track call Mike at ·1472111ound. Thanks. 
LOST: a burgundy Larry Lev1ne wool coat 3/9 at Corby's. lflound, please call6983. 
TO WHOEVER ENDED UP W/MY LIS· CENCE AT NICKlES ON SAT NITE. I WOULD LIKE IT BACK.. PLEASE CALL 3452 OR MAIL TO 244 HOLY CROSS. THANKS. 
LOST: Two navy peacoats at SMC Club­house on 3·9. II taken by mistake please call284·5072 
FOUND: SET OF GM CAR KEYS FOUND AT THAT INCREDIBLE COLOUR PARTY PLEASE CALL 2n­6219ANDIDENTIFY 
Did you happen to pick up my blue book bag 1n A·B Line at NOH dunng lunch on Wed? If so, I REALLY need it back. I can't write my paper without those books. and I can't leave lor Break unt1l I write my paper. Please don't make me spend Break in South Bend! Call Laura at2913. Thanks! 
FOR RENT 

HOME NEAR CAMPUS. $245 PER MONTH&$245 SECURITY DEPOSlT.272-8306 
RIDES 

SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? 1need a ride to Syr~~euee or Rochester lor Sprtng Brellk. Will shllre expenMa. Pie..call Debbie 284-4311 
I am DESPERATE for a ride to ATLANTA lor Spring Break. Anybody going to Florida could drop me off along I·75. Can /eave Friday al!ernoon. Call David at 277­
1326. 
Need nde lor aprtng break to the lovely v111age ol Midland, Michigan. Okay. anywhere nearby is fine. In lact, if worst comes to worst, even Saginaw is all right II you can help th1s poor, sweet, cute, little boy, give Ronnie a call at8287. He won't think you're lUSt being bold. 
PITISBURGH--·RIDE NEEDED! Larry 1487 Need ride for sprtng break to the lovely village of Midland, Michigan. Okay, anywhere nearby is f1ne. In fact, if worst comes to worst, even Saginaw is all right. If you can help this poor, sweet, cute, little boy, give Ronnie a call at 8287. He won't think you're tust be1ng bold. 
PITTSBURGH---RIDE NEEDED! Larry 1487 
I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OH, FOR SPRING !WEAK. WILL SH* EXPENSES. CAll HOWIE AT x1765. 
NEED RIDE TO NY OR LONG ISLAND. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279. 
need ride to Ch1cago -western suburbs. Can leave after 4 Thurs. call Sheila/Laura 3484 
Riders needed to Alabama or anywhere along 1-65. Call Theresa 7591 or Frank 1609 
NEED RIDERS EAST! PITTSBURGH, BREEZEWOOD. DC, BALT!MORE. CALL WILL -8716. LEAVE FRI. MORN­ING. 
DESPERATE! Need 1 rider along 65 & 75.4678 
NEED RIDERS to FT. LAUDERDALE leave ND Fri. ahernoon, leave Fla Sat. CALL JOE at 8953. 
Needed: 2 nders to Washington DC 3/30· 4/1 call Eileen 4159 (SMC) 
FOR SALE 
Want to know what's really go1ng on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­scription informat1on and a free sample copy, call Paul at 277-4851 . 
FOR SALE GREEN OVERCOAT, 
LARGE, IN VERY GOOD CONDITION 
MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER­
CALL PATTY AT 8654 
Attn. new Hall Pres. 1 yr old Foosball table 4-sale ex. cond., ideal for hall game room. Must sell. 234-0319 Best offer 
Attn. new Hall Pres. 1 yr old Foosball table 4·sale ex. cond.. ideal for hall game room. Must sell. 234-0319 Best offer. 
BUY OF THE WEEK: MEMOREX DIS­KETTE 5 1/4 SINGLE S!DE,DOUBLE DENSITY PRICE $1.90 CALL 232-9349 AFTER 5.00 PM. 
PERSONALS 
irthday! 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COSMOS FEVER.........CURE ITIIIIUI 
Real Programmers don't worry about what others think of them. They know only God and IBM can tell them they're wrong. 
I need 2 Graduation tickets for my two im­rrigrant korean adopted sisters who hve never been to college. Call Matteo 277· 6219 
HiEd! 
NY, NJ, WEST, CONN & long Island­bound studentsII Join the St. Patrick's Day parade and party sponsored by the NY alumni club. Asaembie lor marching at 48th, between 5th and Madison at 4 p.m. Party afterwards at Stan lt>pe Hotel (5th and 8181) 5:30­
9:30. No cover charge. All drinks $3. Must be 19. 
ATLANTA ATLANTA ATLANTA David needs a ride to Atlanta tor Spring break. Call him at 277-1326. 
Q: IF A CHEG GOT A JOB, HOW MUCH WOULD HE MAKE IN A YEAR? A: IT ALL DEPENDS UPON WHAT McDONALDS IS PAYING AT THE TIME. 
How m1111y Esophagus Constrictors does Htake to screw In a llghtbulb? 
Two: one to SCfliW In the 1/ghtbulb, and one to calculate the necessary applied torque. 
The Elephants Are Coming ... 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KEV, I LOVE YOU­KELLY 
Ladies-It's Kevin "Stud Muffin· O'Shea's Birthday today. Calls, cards & sexual favors are all accepted ways to wish him Happy Birthday! 
Would you be willing to help Gary Hart during break, in your home state or where ever else you will be? If yes, please con­lac! John at 3377. We will have a meet1ng on Thursday at9PM In Keenan. 
Domers do it 1n the snow. Come help Gary Hart to vtetory tn the Illinois Pnmary. We will provide transportation back and lorth lrom N.D., a place to sleep, and a meal every day lor anyone willing to help lor the firs! four days of break. If interested, con· tact John at 3377. Meeting in Keenan at 9PM Thursday.. 
Brenda, The days are long, but the mghts are longer. I only want to make you hap· py. Willing to wait for you. I know it will be some time if and when the magic returns Just let me know. ~niQY your break!!! LOVE. T.M 
Please help me!!! The mob is after my Dad. the luller brush man is after my Mom, and il I don't get a ride to COLUMBUS, OH, to save them, I'll have to live in South Bendlorthe rest of my life!! To save a life, call Howie at x1765. 
Dear Karen, Happy 19th to the PRIDE of NJ from the PIECES oi2N! 
ATTENTION SMC JUNIORS Senior Board Applications due March 16th at the HCC. 
Happy Birthday (March 23rd) to Ed O'Donnell from your friends on Maple Lane! 
PHILLY CLUB BUS DEPARTS FRIDAY MARCH 16 AT 6PM FROM CCE BUILD­ING DROPOFF AT VALLEY FORGE AND GREYHOUND STATION ( CEN· TERC!TY) 
Hey FPW, Is the mind separate lrom the brain? Is there a soul? Is there lile after Calc 126? Is April the coolest month? Does T. S. Eliot speak Russian? Is he really dead? Can he think if he's dead? From your extstential. non-symmetncal friend, Sammy Davis Beckett Jr. 
HAVE YOU INSURED YOUR NEW COMPUTER? CALL GLEN NEELY STATE FARM INS. 272-6565.0R 272­1780. 
Classes now formng lor Tom Donohue's School of Charm. Students may enroll over Spring Break at El Torito's (on Scot­tsdale Ad) from 4· 7/ best on Fndays. 
SEX Ski racks needed lor Spring Break BIQ$$$$ 284-4391 
Buslneu Goddeaa, Tomorrow Ia the btg day! 
Ann O'Malley, Thanks lor lunch today, We're glad you could make it this timet 
Chester and Rodney 
Marla, Maybe next year? Bill 
Debbie, Have a good time in Syracuse over break. I'm glad you lound a nde. I'll send a postcard! 
Dear Karen Happy Birthday and have a GREAT break! Love and kisses, 2N 
Norma Yonchak here's the personal that you never get... Dave G 

Q: Where does Doctor Who buy hiS salami? A: At a DALEKATESSIN. 
WELL OBSERVER. .... !TS BEEN LIKE REAL .....WELL SORT OF... MAYBE NOT.. 
F 0 A 0 B IT'S COMING!!! 
DAVY WANTS SOME GRAVY DAVY WANTS SOME GRAVY 
I DON'T WANT TO GO TO THERAPY TODAY DON'T MAKE ME GO IT'S MY BIRTHDAY I WANT TO GO BACK TO MY ROOM 
WELL, ROOMIES!II IT'S FINALLY TIME TO ROAD TRIP IT TO LAUDERDALEII! OKAY LOUISA, ELAINA. AND TERRY. WHERE'S THE BEEFII! HEY BABY. OH NO, NOT THE SAME MISTAKE AGAINII! 48 BATIERIES, ONE BLENDER. 50 TAPES, AND WE ARE THEREIII EVERYBODY'S WORKING FOR THE WHOLE WEEKI!! MAKE YOMAMA HAP· PY!II SHE WOULD LOVE A NEW BON· NET!! AHA, AHA, AHA! MIDNIGHT. IT WON'T BE SNOWING!! HERSHEY KISSES ARE THERE. DO THEY PLAY THE CARTOONS IN FLORIDA!! VIDEO TIME. HEY LET'S DO IT UP AIGHTII GO QUAD, PARTY IN LAUDERDALEII 
LOVE ALWAYS, MARIA, ALIAS MARTA 
BUCHKA. 

JUST A TYPICAL BEAUX ARTS BALL .. FRIDAY, APRILS 
PATRICIA WATCH OUT FOR THOSE HAMSTERS IN FLORIDA FONDLY KMF 
J.J. One more day and we'll be Wasted away again at J.J. Wahle's lake II Won­der why we ever left home? Love ya! Mar 
Brownie and Wren, Spring Break's here and I'm so glad to be home! Love you. Maf'rin 
lnconststent quote of the week: I want to EAT DIRT AND PLAY SOLDIER! and then go to the Officers' Club for d1nner and danc1ng. Fort Knox. here I come! 
DC CLUB BUS leaves 8:30 pm Friday Library Circle. Arrives DC Greyhound 8:30am Sat. 
To the 5 real men ol Zahm Be good and don't break too many hearts in Fla Try not to miss our smiling faces too much. We'll miss you. don't forget our souvenirs. Respectfully Yours KH. JM. LO'C. PS JK. don't gettoo tan in NJ We'll miss you too! 
Thank you St. Jude LW. 

Kastaway, Happy 21st·Have lun 1n the Sun! N1se 
Fun and Games. Good luck w1th Nuke 1n· terv~ews. Have lun (make flashcards) Nihh 
PUANE. PUANE, PUANE. Snoopy IS 1n bondage! The Rapists 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KEV, I LOVE YOU· KELLY 
The Observer 
No one seems to know where the Colts are headed lure the Baltimore franchise to their stadiums. Irsay these days. OwnerRobert Irsay is reportedly interested 1supposedly has set no deadline for himself to c_hoose
L . ·I q(•
in relocating the team in either Indianapolis or. any ofthe alternatives. Story at right.
1 ·-fl;

Phoenix, and both cities are doing their dar'ndest to
,, 

Prices Good at South Bend Ave Store Only 
PRICES GOOD THR U MARCH 17, 1984 
WINE Colony or Foppiano your choice Any Flavor in Stock 
1.99 
J.SL 

2.99 
J.OL 


Lancers7SOml  2.99  
Cella Wines I.SL  4.99  
Bolla Wines 750ml  2 jor5.99  

KEGS 
Old 
BEER 
Busch 
6.99 Natural Light 
LP 
6.99 Budweiser& Bud Light 
LP 
7.49
LP 
Stroh 
6.99 Little Kings 
LP 
24. 7oz. 4.99 Old Style 
6.99 Michelob& MichLight 
LP 
24bottles 9.09 
QUARTS 
Budweiser 9.99 Old Milwaukee 7.49 

Milwuakee Budweiser
halfbbl 26.99 halfbbl 31.99 Lite Michelob
ha/fbbl 29.99 ha/fbbl 36.99 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX, Ariz. -Baltimore 
Colts owner Robert Irsay and 
Phoenix business executives repor­
tedly trying to woo his National 
Football League team to Arizona will 
meet today in Las Vegas, a 
newspaper reported yesterday. 
Irsay, who is considering moving the Colts to Indianapolis or Phoenix, was to have met with the Phoenix executives yesterday, according to published reports. But the meeting was postponed one day because one of the Phoenix participants had prior commitments elsewhere, the Phoenix Gazette said. 
However, the Arizona Republic, another Phoenix newspaper, said the meeting was called off because Irsay was upset that it was publicized. 
The Baltimore Sun said a Caesar's Palace employee told the newspaper that Irsay and Michael Chernoff, the Colts' general counsel, were pre-registered in rooms at the Las Vegas hotel. 

Babbitt was to work in his office, West said. 
"I do not know of any meeting with Mr. Irsay," said West. "I do not have any information about any meeting Mr. Irsay might have with anybody else." 
Eddie Lynch, a Phoenix real estate developer identified by the Gazette as among those planning to meet with Irsay, declined comment yeser­day. A second executive, Salt River Project General Manager jack Pfis­ter, denied any knowledge or inter­est in a meeting with Irsay. 
Maryland officials met with Irsay in Chicago on Sunday to lay out a financial offer designed to match, as nearly as possible, offers made by In­dianapolis officials, who are seeking a professional football team to play in the new Hoosier Dome. 
Maryland &uv. Harry Hughes, Schaefer and other officials told Ir­say they have arranged a privately subsidized S 15 million loan at 8 per­cent interest, and that state funds could be used to relieve Irsay of the 
USBW A voting 
Keady picked as Coach ofYear 
Associated Press board of directors, said USJJWA Purdue, also was selected District 4 
president Marvin West. coach of the year. Other district 
ST. LOUIS -Gene Keady of Prior to the season, Keady's team coaches of the year include: John Purdue, whose Boilermakers are in had been picked to fmish near the Chaney, Temple, District 1; John the NCAA Tournament as the No. 3 bottom ofthe Big Ten standings. But Thompson, Georgetown, District 2; seed in the Midwest, has been the Indiana school wound up Sonny Smith, Auburn, District 3A; selected as Coach of the Year by the sharing the league championship Dean Smith, North Carolina, District 
U.S. Basketball Writers Association. with Illinois with a 15-3 record. 3B; Billy Tubbs, Oklahoma, District The Boilermakers enter the NCAA 5; Don Haskins, Texas-El Paso, Dis­
Keady, 47, won out over DePaul's tournament this weekend with an trict 6; Jerry Tarkanian, Nevada-Las Ray Meyer in balloting conducted overall record of 22-6. Vegas, District 7, and Marv by the association's 10-member Keady, in his fourth year at Harshman, Washington, District 8. 
A Colts spokesman in Balitmore said Irsay has made no comments about the reported Las Vegas meeting, and no announcements are planned. Irsay has not set a deadline for a decision, spokesman Walt Gutowski said. 
Pat Bernstein, spokeswoman for Baltimore Mayor William Donald Schaefer, said Schaefer has not heard from Irsay recently. 
Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt repor­tedly was planning to meet with Ir­say, but gubernatorial press secretaryJim West said yesterday no meeting with Irsay was on the gover­
nor's schedule through tomorrow.. 

financial burden of the Colts' train­ing complex. Hughes said after the meeting that Irsay "was very in­terested" in the proposals. 
. 

._.,._,.~..,..illlllltlllollllllllll!!~.....,~.....,;;~~ 
"WE BEATALL ADVERTISED PRICES" JUSTBRING IN THEIR AD 
LIQUOR 
Mix 'n' Match Any3for 10.99 
Kings Cellar Kentucky Tequila7som/ Tavern 7soml 
HeavanHill Kings Cellar Scotch 7soml Gin7somt 
Kamchatka 
Vodka7som/ Jameson Irish Whiskey
7S0ml 8.99 Kings Cellar Rum 
1.7SL 
8.99 Apple Barrel Schnapps
7S0ml 3.99 Everclear
7S0ml 7.99 
lblS:Jf20Q 'dW V1Smr,q ···1-J 

·c 



The Observer Thursday, March 15, 1984 -~age ,1 0 
1 

NIT Tournament 
Tennessee teams have big nights 

Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Willie Bur· ton scorn! 12 points and sparked a late rally as Tenncsst·c beat Saint Peter's Colkge 54-40 last night in an opening-round game of the National Invitation Tournament. 
Tennt·ssee's next oppont:nt in tht.• tournamt·nt, and the site and date of that gamt·, weren't immediately an· nount."t"d. 
Tennessee lost a lead halfway through the first half wht·n Tommy Best hit the second of two foul shots to plll St. Peter's ahead I3·12. The PeanKks held the lead until tht· final second of the half. when Tennt.·s­see's Tyrone Beaman hit a fret· throw to tie the score at 21. 
Tennt·ssee led by as many as four points t.•arly in the st•cond half h· fM·· the l'canKk~ pulled ahead .)d-;h <lll a tayul-' b1 ''est with 6:44 remaining. 
Then Tennessee caught fire. 
Burton hit a fidd goal, made a pair 

offree throws, and then drove down 
tht.· court for another basket, putting 
the Volunteers ahead 41-38 with 
4:54 remaining. 
The Vols added 13 points to their victory margin as they were fouled six times. 
Best led St. Peter's scorers with 13 points, while teammate Shelton Gibbs added eight. Fred jenkins and Tony White had nine points apiece for Tennessee. 
Tenn-C 74, Georgia 69 

CHATfANOOGA, Tenn. -For­ward Lamar Oden scored seven of 
his 13 points in overtime to lead Tennessee-Chattanooga to a gritty 74-69 victory over Georgia last 
NIT 
continuedfrom page 12 
view of what else he did on the court. 
"I knew I had to fill the role of point guard," said Hicks, "but I felt I could fill that role. The last few games I've really picked up a lot of confidence as a point guard." 
Not only did Hicks have con­fidence last night, but the Notre Dame team finally had some con­fidence from the free throw line, hit· ting 7S percent of its attempts from the gift line. 
"That 7S percent (from the line) was pretty good," said Phelps. "It really helped us, especially since we knew they were going to foul us." 
And while 7S percent free throw shooting is not the norm for this Notre Dame team, it was a different Notre Dame team out there last night with Kempton. The big red­head himself converted on five-of­six free throws, besides pulling down I I rebounds. 
Webb noted what Kempton's presence did to his team as the game progressed and how it helped keep the Irish in control. 
"Their size and strength during the last 10 minutes was the dif­ference," he said. "Kempton's presence really helped. He gave tht.·m that extra size and beef in there that wore us down in the second half. 
"Beyond that, it was a couple steals they got that got the crowd in tht.• game and their (the Notre Dame players') adrenalin flowing." 
Forward Mark Davis and guard Charlit· Smith led the Old Dominion scoring, throwing in 16 points apiet.·e. Smith, who had I 0 of his points in the first half, got many of his 16 on long range bombs. 
IRISH ITEMS Sluhy was awarded an honorable mention yes­terday on The Associated Press' 
night in the first round ofthe Nation­
al Invitation Tournament. 
UTC, 24-6, which bounced back 
after blowing an !!-point second­
half lead, advances to the NIT's 
second round Sunday or Monday 
against an opponent and at a site to 
be announced. 
Georgia finished the season at 17­
13. 
Oden's layup with I :03 to play put 
llTC ahead 70-69 and a breakaway 

hucket by guard Maurice Head 32 
seconds later gave the Moccasins a 
three-point lead. 
Senior guard Vern Fleming, Geor­gia's all-time leading scorer, missed a shot with I 7 seconds left. Oden, a 6-fot-5 senior, was fouled on the rebound and calmly hit two free throws to put the game out ofreach. 
A hasket by UTC forward Gerald 
Wilkins tied the game 61-61 with 
2: I I left in regulation but neither team could score again before the buzzer. Georgia center Richard Cor­hen missed with 10 seconds left and teammate Donald Hartry couldn't make the tip. 

So. Alabama 88, Florida 87 
BILOXI, Miss. -Michael Gerren scored a season-high 32 points and Dexter Shouse added his year's best 24 points last night to help South Alabama squeak past Florida 88-87. 
Gerren, who hit 15 first-half points, scored II of them in the jaguars scoring blitz of 12 un­answered points. 
Two of the points came after 

Florida forward Ronnie Williams 
and head coach Norm Sloan were 
tagged with consecutive technical 
fouls, and Shouse made two-of-three 
free throws. Sloan was hit with an­
other technical late in the game. 
Florida closed to 42-36 by inter­

1983-84 All-America team ... The Irish now move on to the second round of the NIT, where they will play on either Sunday or Monday. Should they get another home game, which is somewhat doubtful considering last night's meager ACC attendance of 5,442, it would be Monday. More than likely, Notre Dame would play one ofthe winners in the Midwest, most of which will be decided tonight. Rut, with the NIT Tournament Committee and the way in which it sometimes seems to make illogical pairings, just about anything is possible ... Notre Dame will find out either tonight or, at the latest, tomorrow by 11 a.m. who it will play in the second round . . . If the players seemed to be having an extra hard time han­dling the ball in last night's game, it was not because they had been eating the famed reuben sandwiches at the dining hall, but rather because the red, white and blue balls which the NIT provided on Tuesday still had a slick texture to them. Accord­ing to Phelps, it usually takes a week before a game ball is well broken in. 
Last Night's Results Notre Dame 67, Old Dominion 62 Old Dominion (62) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Gatttson 33 4-8 2-5 8 4 1 0 Davis 38 7-16 2·2 7 3 16 Hanley 38 5-11 0-0 6 4 10 Thomas 37 3·7 0-0 4 5 6 Smith 36 8-18 0·2 3 4 16 Wade 16 0-2 4-6 3 2 4 Facka 20-00-0110 
200 27-62 8-15 32 23 62 

FG Pet. .435. FT Pet. -.533. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers · 9. Assists · 14 (Smith 7). Technieals-none. 
Notre Dame (67) 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Dolan  31  2-2  2-4  7  4  6  
Royal  13  0-4  0-0  4  1  0  
Barlow  38  8-12  5-7  7  4  21  
Sluby  37  8·15  3·4  0  4  19  
Hicks  37  1-8  4-4  5  0  6  
Howard  3  0-0  2-3  0  0  2  
Price  14  3-9  0-0  3  2  6  
Kempton  27  1·1  5-6  11  2  7  
200 23-51  21-28  37  15  67  
FG  Pet.  .451.  FT  Pet.  ·  .750.  Team  

rebounds · 3. Turnovers -14. Assists -13 (Dolan 6). Technteals ·none. Halftime -Notre Dame 33, Old Dominion 
29. Officials -Louis Grillo, Davtd Bair, Dan Hooker. (all SEC) A· 5.442. 
mission, but the jaguars rebuilt a 
14-point advantage with 12:10 
remaining. 
Florida's Eugene McDowell and Ronnie Williams kept the Gators close with 23 and 19 points, respectively. 
Trailing by 16, Florida slowed the tempo with an inside attack and began chipping away at the deficit. McDowell knocked down 8 points from in close and Randall Leath's short jumper made it 36-32 with two minutes remaining in the period. 
Lamar 64, New Mexico 61 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -Lamar's prolific shooting combination of Tom Sewell and jerry Everett held off a free throw-filled second-half New Mexico rally as the Cardinals took a 64-61 basketball victory last night. 
Sewell led the Cardinals, now 26: 4, with 29 points, includnng a layup with 26 seconds left that sealed Lamar's triumph. Everett added 20 points. 

New Mexico, which finished its .Jest season since 1978 with a 24-11 the All-America first team yesterday, along with Michael jordan record, got a pair of 21-point perfor­andSam Perkins ofNorth Carolina, Patrick Eu•tng ofGeorgetown, mances from forward Tim Garrett and Wayman Tisdale ofOklahoma. For details, see story on page 
and guard Phil Smith. 12. 


ALEXIAN BROTHER ... In the 
HealthCare Ministry" 

"I am an Alexian Brother. I want to be present sharing my faith in special service to others, reflecting God's Healing Care and Message." 
Committed to Christ..• through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and the unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION. NURSING. CLERICAL. TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE. X-RAY. LABORATORY. ENGINEERING 

• 
MAINTENANCE • SOCIAL SERVICES • PUBLIC RELATIONS 

• 
PHARMACY. COMMUNITY HEALTH. REHABILITATION, and more. 


••nonoouou WRITE FOR INFORMATION • •••••n••••n
lbucan 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers berome 600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 
an 
Plea"' send mort• inlormatoon at no obligalton.
Alexian 
Name ____ 
Brother! 
A Religious 
Community Cit~ .. ------·---·-·--------~ldtf'....___.__ Zip 
of Men 
Agt•.--·---Edu< dloon._.____ -----­
--·· 
··Iaman 


-8QI ,(I rfTu~: ~ .V£hd.udT.. 19'/"T~ 
----~--------.~..-=-~~~--~"--~---....'ho:-lt>M_,__~---------·------~-~-------·----­


-·a·--__.,.:____ -­
:::~~sr~~--·~ "1f·~.qmor~1r~;:)71'

'11 ~ • • • 
--·ay·· -....~~~'-.it'. -~-~ ". :1. . ~ .-... . 
-,· ~;

.
tt0 
!" • Thursday,-March 15, 1984: page 11 

8/f(/SH"G"A'Ro£NsP.NNOu~.r.r.r.r.r~J: ~ L A Complete Range of Floral Services ToW~;\_. 
~~~ Chicagolandl!* ~~ 
• 
$27.50 for 1 dozen roses boxed and delivered! 

• 
Sr. Formal Specials Del'd anywhere in Chicago 

• 
Next Day Delivery in most cases! \i.fl'i'J 

• 
Many other offers available! ~ 


For details, see us in LaFortune Basement Today orca/1283-6867 Hrs: 12:30-5:30 Mon-Sat 
0 *Delivery to Chicago and 110 Suburbs I 
~~oo~~~~oo~xx~co~~~~co~~ccccoooo~~~oO 
Bloom County 


Guindon 


"He's wood-gl'llln-vlnyl money. I think she's ec· zema." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Protege  29 Of special excellence  62 Medley 63 Pay through  12 Dogarden work.,  
5 Engrossed  32 Therefore  the­ 16 Like an  
9 Dwellon  33 Romaine  64 Shoshoneans  old car  
13 Cry of  36 Sidekick  65 Resounded  18 Summits:  
Bacchanals  37 Gamecoup  abbr.  
14 Concept 15 City in Japan 17 Gamecoup 19 Waterllly 20 Suffers from the heat 21 Moon goddess 22 Org. 23 Cold through and through  39 Corrida cheer 40 Scout 41 Lat. abbr. 42 Snuggle 44 Close calls 46 Climax 47 Snicker 50 Repeat 53 Seraglios 54 Instructors 58 Guam city 59 Gamecoup 60 Doctrine  DOWN 1 Moistens 2 Admit 3 Libertine 4 Proclaim 5 Travels by car 6 Embellishes 7 Church seats 8 Convert in· to leather 9 Gamecoup 10 Coral reefs  21 Title of former Jap. gov· ernors 23 Communica· tion: abbr. 24 Vipers 25 Vault 26 Unite 28 English dramatist 30 Gamecoup 31 Wrecks  
24 Wing-shaped  61  Slangy  11  Badger-like  the car  
27 Golf clubs  reply  carnivore  completely  


Berke Breathed 
Campus . 

THEY FIIIAUY MAll£ A V/17£0 FOR IT. I 5/WJ IT THIS 
111£.('-NAI<EP,
WOUW YOU ~/K€ 10 KNOW 

MORNIN&. IT ~S 1r105Tt..Y 
WHAT I THINK OF NOW 

•4 p.m. -Lecture, "Science and Patronage: 

tXPWPIN(;I

5/..0W MOTION EXPW5!0NS 
Wl/t:N I H£AR 

Galileo and the Telescope," Prof. R. S. Westfall,
ANI7 HA~F-NAK£17 WM6N 
''YeSTfRf?AY".7 

~II/KIN' AROUNC?. 
Library Lounge 
f 


•4:15 p.m. -Colloquium, "The United Stated Civil Rights Commission," Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, 110 Law School 
\ 
•4:30 
p.m. -Graduate Fellowship Prayer Group Meeting, Bulla House 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Rikisha Man," Washing­ton Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, David Liptak on piano, Cat­herine Tait on violin, Little Theatre 

•8:30 
p.m. -Poetry Reading, Derek Walcott,


&Dave 


Library Auditorium 

•12:15 p.m. -Lecture, "The Role of Peasants in Bolivian Mining," Ricardo Godoy, 121 Hayes Healy 
TV Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 637p.m.
The Far Side Gary LarsonRichard Guindon 

. ,,......
-~ 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 
Analyzing humor 
33 Animal 48 Uta the shelter actress 34 Earthen 49 Heavens: pot comb. form 35 Pursue 51 Staffs 38 Female 52 Secreted equine 54 Hurry 43 TVadver· tiser 55 Singer 
44 Embarrass­Fitzgerald ing dis· 56 Weather plays forecast 
45 Mex. shawl 57 Environmen· 47 Light COO· tal problem versation 59 Antelope 
Wednesday's Solution 
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
3/15/84 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFonune 34 Straight Talk 16 Gimme A Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 Two Marriages 34 All Creatures Great and SmaU 
16 Family Ties 
16 Cheers 

22 The Tenth Annual People's Choice Awards 28 Lottery 34 Mystery 16 Buffalo Bill 16 Hill Street Blues 28 20/20 34 Sneak Previews 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
~ 




Thursday, March I 5, 1984 -page 12
Seorts 
Kempton adds extra something in NIT win over Old Dominion 
ByJEFF BLUMB team," says Notre Dame coach Webb. "We knew that he was a good AsststanlSports f:dilor Digger Phelps of Kempton. "A lot of shooter but he shot with more and a things happen physically when he's better range than we thought he 
Seven points. Twenty-seven out there." had." minutes played. Not had numbers "With Kempton in there it helps Barlow was not the only man for a basketball player hut still, not Ken Barlow to play better. Jr frees up doing the job for the Irish last night overly impressive. Sometimes, Barlow to hit the jumpers and help Sluby had his usual fine game, adding though, a player's value to his team is out rebounding_" 19 points ofhis own as well as a cru­rdlc<:ted in more than simple statis­"lbcy all collapse on him," ex­cial three-point play that gave Notre tics. plains Barlow about what happens Dame some life just as it seemed to 
Take the example of Tim when Kempton checks into the be losing the momentum to Old Kt·mpton last night. The Irish sopho­game. "'Ibat opens things up outside Dominion. more's seven points may seem insig­for me. I have that much more con­That three-point play, which nitkanl in light of Notre Dame's fidence when he comes in." came offa brilliant leaping intercep­hard-fought 67-62 NIT first round Things were wide open for Bar­tion by Scott Hicks at midcourt, got win over Old Dominion. But his low last night, and the 6-1 0 the Irish going again after they had presence on the court n)Uld hardly sophomore took full advantage of let a 33-29 halftime lead turn into a he l·alkd insignificant. that fact by canning 8 of 12 shots en 38-37 deficit with 14:48 to play. At 
The mere fact that Kempton was route to a game-high 21 point per­the time, the Monarchs had just es­
on th<· court opened up the scoring formano:. He hit from all over the tablished an up-tempo style of play for his teammates. The Old court, showing the form he dis­and it appeared Notre Dame, like so Dominion players were forced to played in the weeks surrounding the many times before, had lost control respect his prescnn· inside, and that Maryland game when Kempton wa'i of the game. made things a whole lot easier for in the line-up. After Hicks' steal and Sluby's short 
Ken Barlow and Tom Sluhy outside. "Barlow had a better game shoot­jumper which followed, it was off to "It may not appear so in the box ing than we thought he would," said the races for Notre Dame the rest of 
score, hut ht· adds something to our veteran Old Dominion coach Paul the night. The Irish at one time worked out to a 59-49 lead before finishing with the five-point win. 
And while Hicks' steal may have

No questions about 
been the best play he made all night, 
it was hardly the only one. The fresh­
man from Indianapolis, starting at

Jordan and Tisdale 
point guard in place of injured Joe 

Howard, gave Phelps 37 minutes of Associated Press Heels in rebounding with a 9.5 
solid play at the position last night. average. 

His shooting was not the greatest, NEW YORK -Michael Jordan Tisdale, 6-9, the first freshman in but it hardly seemed to matter in and sophomore sensation Wayman history to make frrst team All­Tisdale of Oklahoma were unani­American last season, had a strong 
See NIT, page 10 

mous choices on the 1983-84 As­season as the seventh-ranked sociated Press All-American college Sooners' only returning starter, basketball team, which was an­averaging 26.8 points on 58 percent nounced yesterday. shooting and 9.6 rebounds. 
5-4 victory 

Also on the team are Jordan's Ewing was the co-Player of the teammate, Sam Perkins, and 7-foot Ycar in the Big Ea'it Conference with 
Irish overcome pressure, Ball State 
juniors Patrick Ewing of George­St. John's Chris Mullin. Ewing, a town and Akeem Olajuwon of Hous­native ofJamaica who went to high ton. school in Cambridge, Mass., guided By ED KONRADY Jon. "Tim really as.o;erted himselfand Noonan was 0-4 in singles play going 
-lbe selections were done by a the Hoyas to both the regular-season Sports Writer inspired the team." into this match. I0-memher panel of sports writers and postseason league titles and the Ball State led off the match with a But past losses faded from and hroadcao;ters. Ten points were No. 2 ranking in the nation with a When a team has lost its spirit and victory at third doubles. Tom Lazoff memory as Noonan tirelessly 
given for a first team selection, five 29-3 record. finds itself adrift in a sea of uncer­and Gene Orlando combined for a hustled, shot after shot, putting away for the second team and three for Olajuwon, a native of Lagos, tainity, it looks to its captain. 6-4, 6-3 win over Joe Nelligan and impossible volleys for winners, the third team. Nigeria, averaged 16.3 points on 67 When the Notre Dame men's ten­Doug Pratt. keeping the pressure on Snelson, 
Jordan, a Wilmington, N.C., native percent shootingfrom the field, 13.8 nis team looked to Tim Noonan, he The Irish tied the match, thanks to who had no choice but to succumb, and a standout since his freshman rebounds and had 189 blocks -16 had found the confidence lacking in Ghidotti's and Paul Najarian's 6-3,6-7-S, 7-5. sea'i<m, paced the Tar Heels' scoring against Biscayne -in leading No. 5 his singles play all season, but with 4 defeat of Tom Coulton and Paul "Tim played the big points under with a 19.6 average on 55 percent Houston to a 28-4 record. He earned Ball State only one match away from Kiron at second doubles. pressure really well," said assistant accuracy from the field. lbe Atlantic the Southwest Conference's most victory Tuesday afternoon, Noonan, Next was the first doubles match coach Tom Hartzell. "He really leads Coao;t Conference's Player of the valuable player award, leading the junior Mike Gibbons, and freshman between Noonan and Gibbons for the team by example." Year, he also averaged 5.4 rebounds Cougars to the league's regular Paul Ghidotti won consecutive the Irish and John Memer and Mark The match came down to two and made 49 steals. season and postseason titles. He has matches to thrust the Irish over the Woldnoc for Ball State. In the frrst men playing on adjacent courts: Gib­
Perkins, from New York, hit 60 been playing basketball for only five Cardinals, 5-4. set the Irish duo broke serve and bons and Ghidotti. Gibbons wao; percent from the field in averaging years and late la'it season blossomed "We knew the match wao; going to rode their advantage to victory. facing Mermcr at second singles, and 
17.5 points and leading the 27-2 Tar into a top performer. be tight," said head coach Tom Fal-However, early in the second set he snatched the first set, 6-2. Mer­Noonan and Gibbons found them­mer took the second set, 6-3, and the selves behind, 3-0. The pair fought match wao; on. It was down to the back to 6-6, forcing a tiebreaker. third set, and Gibbons caught on Down 4-1, they rallied to a 8-6 vic­fire. Passing shots, landing just tory, giving them set and match, 6-4, inches inside the line, kept Mermcr 7-6 (8-6). from his powerful serve and volley 
"It seemed they ( Memer and game, as Gibbons triumphed, 6-l., 3­Woldnoc) were bothered by the 6,6-3. quickness of the courts," said Gib­Suddenly all eyes were focused on bons. "They had strong serves and Ghidotti. He wao; paired against good volleys." Woldmoc, and the competition was 
"We expected a struggle because •een, ao; Ghidotti kept Woldmoe they (the Cardinals) had just come moving from side to side with deep from a 7-2 victory over Ohio State, a groundstrokes, using his topspin tough Big Ten team." backhand with impunity. 
The Cardinals didn't fly the roost, After winning th<· first set, Ghidot­however, as Gene Orlando ti led S-4 in the second. However, overcame a late rally by the sixth Woldmoe took the next two games singles player, Pratt, to win 6-2, 6-4. to lead 6-S and threatened to take 
Ball State's Coulton took ad­the set. vantage of some unforced errors by "I didn't want to go three sets," Joe Nelligan at first singles to win 6-said Ghidotti later. "I just wanted to l., 6-3, giving the Cardinals the lead. get out of there." 
"I beat myself, he didn't beat me," Ghidotti got his wish. He hdd his said Nelligan. "I just missed the key serve to knot the score at 6-6 and shots." force the second tiebreaker ofthe af­ternoon. The action wao; furious as Lazoff boosted the score to 4-2 Ghidotti's service returns . with a 6-4, 6-0 victory over fifth neutralized Woldmoe's power, and 
With 512 -teams participating, the Bookstore Bas­singles player Paul Najarian. Another allowed him to outlast the Cardinal, ketball Tournament is the largest basketball tourna­victory for Ball State would give the winning the tiebreaker 7-4, and ment in the world. This year's edition, under the Cardinals the match. Noonan faced 
See TENNIS, page 8 
superotsion ofCommissionerjeffBlumb, gets under-Tom Snelson at fourth singles. 




