Ireland program -page 4 


Corrigan advocates morality and fairness in college sports 
By MARK DILLON ing conscience on the national level meeting that he would put up with a News Staff in the area of intercollegiate ath­few losing seasons and would stand letics as well. As an example he used behind me, but if I ever cheated I 
last night Notre Dame Athletic the recent firing of Florida football would be gone by midnight." Director Gene Corrigan spoke on coach Charlie Pell by the Univer­Corrigan said he uses the same "Morality in Athletics" at the sity's president In the face of I08 philosophy with his coaches and so Knight:; of Columbus Hall. Corrigan NCAA violations. far it has worked. Notre Dame has spoke briefly on a variety of topics Despite being adamantly opposed never been cited for any violation of and then opened the floor to ques­to cheating in any form, Corrigan NCAA regulations. Corrigan tions from a small crowd. said he understood the reasons for said,"The most important thing is 
Violations of NCAA regulations some of it. "The violations are most the integrity of the institution, the are decreasing, Corrigan said. When apparent in the state universities be­Integrity of the athletic program, a.o;ked about NCAA Executive Direc­cause of the intense pressure. If and the good opinion ofthe alumni." tor Walter Byers' figure that 30 per­Oklahoma loses to Nebraska for five Prompted by question, Corrigan cent of all NCAA teams violate years running It becomes a matter of also spoke on the recent intensifying regulations, Corrigan replied,"If this state pride. Pressure is put on the of the women's volleyball program. Is so then twenty years ago it was 60 university and especially the coach "In the government's eyes there was percent." to do whatever possible to regain a lack ofparity with respect to grant­
Corrigan attributed this decrease their lost pride. It is this pressure in-aids between male and female. to the consciences of university that almost forces a program to Rather than throwing the money presidents and leaders. Corrigan cheat," Corrigan said. around Into different scholarships, it said conscience is the only effective "However," said Corrigan,"that was decided to build the volleyball way to halt the violations. "Look at kind of pressure docs not exist team into a contender for a national jails, they don't stop thieves, the here." As proofhe cited an interview championship," he said. only thing that stops the breaking of with University President Father Corrigan gave two reasons for vol­rules is a conscience," he said. Theodore Hesburgh. Corrigan leyball being the choice. "First you 
Corrigan said there is an increas-said,"Heshurgh told me in our first 

Reaganomics subject of last night's debate 
By SUE FOLEY solved inflation by creating the News Staff worst economic sit-uation since the depression of the 30's." 
Reaganomics was defended by In explanation of the rising Economics Professor james economic indicators of fiscal Rakowski :md criticized by Eco­year 1984 he said, "Next to the nomics Professor Thomas Swartz recession almost anything looks la.o;t night in a debate sponsored good." by the Election Task Force at the Rakowski defended Reagan's Center for Social Concerns. cutbacks in social programs, 
Fairness and overall effective­saying they are neither unjus­ness were the two key issues ex­tified nor excessive. Noting that plored in the debate. his reputation for being unsym­
Swartz bla.<>ted Reagan's pathetic to lower-income indi­supply-side economic policy. viduals was carefully nurtured by "We are seeing a recovery led by opposing parties, Rakowski went ma.o;sive deficits...We simply do on to show that per capita dis­not know what the ramifications posable income and real in-kind of these deficits will he," he said. household transfers both in­
creased during the Reagan years. 
Noting that the tax breaks for In closing Swartz said, "I find it upper income families failed to unconscionable for a public offial increa.o;c investments as predicted, Swartz said, "Reagan see DEBATE, page 4 


'lbt' OhservCr/Mary t'lynn 
Economics Professor Thomas Swartz discusses Reagonomics at em tnfonnal debate last night in the Center for Social Concerns. Swartz criticized Reagan's economic policies, while fellow eco­nomics professor james Rakowski defe,ded them. No blows were reported between the men See story above. 

The ObocrTer/Mary flynn 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan spoke on "Morality in Atletics" last night in the Knights of Columbus Hall. He said the pressure to cheat does not exist here as it does at other schools. See story at left. 
need an excellent coach and we have one. Second, in talking to vol­leyball experts, it was discovered that the second best volleyball area in the country is Chicago area Cath­olic schools." For these reasons Cor­rigan forsees a national contender within four years. 
see CORRIGAN, page 4 


Neal ~ncouraged by good attitude of students planning social events 
By SCOTT BEARBY the Stone", and "Purple Rain." On be no lottery due to lack ot ume. 
News Staff a trial basis the Student Activities Of­Tickets will be approximately S12 
fice will offer groups the opportu­with a probable limit of six tickets 

Notre Dame Student Activities Of­nity to travel to Chicago and per person, McGovern said. fice Director joni Neal said she is Indianapolis for various activities, McGovern also said the campus T­"encouraged by the positive atti­Neal said. These trips would take shirt shop is now open for business tude" shown in scheduling campus place on Saturdays and would be and is taking orders. events, at last night's Hall Presidents' partly subsidized by Student Activi­The Student Activities Board wlll Council meeting. ties in order to alleviate student also be working to compile a list of 
Neal spoke on the opportunities costs. locations which will and will not that arc available to halls and organi­In other business the Council dis­sign agreements to take responsibil­zations. She said LaFortune Student cussed the current United Way ity for off-campus events, McGovern Center, Washington Hall, and the Drive and the upcoming World said. Due to a recent directive by th~ Senior-Alumni Club are currently Food Day which will take place Oct. Office of Student Affairs, this agree­available for renting by campus 16. ment must be signed in order for a groups. · Kevin McGovern, director of the group to hold an off-campus activity. 
Neal listed upcoming movies Student Activities Board, discussed scheduled to be shown in the engi­upcoming events, including the The Council will announce the neering auditorium this year. These Nov. 16 concert by The Fixx at the August-September Sowder Award 
include "Kramer vs. Kramer", "Star -ACC. Tickets are scheduled to go on for outstanding hall spirit in the Wars", "The Big Chill", "Romancing sale one weekfrom today. There will coming weeks. 

Oktoberfest to start today at SMC 
By PAT CONLIN at Saint Mary's. The steins feature the pete for a trophy. The Hall Olympics News Staff Saint Mary's College logo. will replace the hall decoration of last year. 
The annual event 'Oktoberfcst' is A country music band will play at Tonight at 9 "The Sound of 
scheduled to begin at Saint Mary's a picnic at 4:1 5 tomorrow In the Music," will be shown In Carroll 
today. Oktoberfcst is a series of dining hall. Following this at 6:30 Hall. This will cost $1. 50, and is 
events that coincides with the an­the first annual Hall Olympics will sponsored by the ski club. 
nual Founder's Day celebration. In­be held in Angela Athletic Facility. The "Beer" Gardens will be to­
cluded in the plannedactivitics are a Events will include Twister, Apple morrow night from 9 to I. The Root 
Beer Garden and the second annual Pass, a suspender race, Steal the Pret­Beer Garden will be on the lawn in 
Root Beer Garden for those students zel, a sneaker race, the Root Beer ob­front of Holy Cross and is free of 
under 21. stacle course and a hot dog eating charge. 
contest. The Beer Garden, which will be 
Today, from 4:30 to 6:1 5, there 

Teams from McCandless, Regina, outside Madeleva Hall, requires a 21 will be a beer stein sale in all dorms 
LcMans and Holy Cross will com-I. D. and will cost S I 

;fifAiK WttMI(OLT IO·{fl·fl'l 
The Observer 



In Brie£ 

The Amateur Night, comedy contest held last night at Senior Bar was won by Bernie Pelligrino, ofDillon Hall. All of the winners will perform at The Budweiser Comedy Shop to be held Oct. 17, at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium, where Pelligrino will be the opening act. Second place was taken by Ruth Kaiser, while there was a tie for third place between Ave Green andJohn Flynn. For their efforts the winners all received cash and Budweiser apparel. · The 
Obseroer 

No more "Ladies Night" specials at locat 
bars at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln according tci the student newspaper there. After the state Equal Opportunity Commission issued warnings, several campus area bars dropped their special price nights for women. Others continue, but under names such as "Person's Night" or "Skirts Night." -The Obseroer 
Corby Tavern is seeking to regain its liquor license. 
C.T.I. Inc., the corporation which owns Corby's, has filed suit against 
~ 
the Indiana Alcohol Beverage Commission asking for judicial review of the Commission's decision to revoke the bar's license. When offi­~ cials arrived to close the barSept. 21, they discovered C.T.I. had filed 
r 
for bankruptcy. A stay order issued by a judge prevented the license _ 
r 
from being seized and the bar has remained open since then. No
,. 
hearing date has been set. -The Obseroer 
r 
' 
Solidarity leader Lech Walesa called on 
Poland's Communist authorities to restore trade union freedoms in a statement issued Monday for the second anniversary of the outlaw­ing ofhis labor federation. Walesa, said in a telephone interview that he had no special plans to mark the anniversary of the Oct. 8, 1982, decision by Poland's Parliament to ban the 9.5 million-member inde­pendent trade union. The 41-year-old shipyard electrician, who won the 1983 Nobel Peace Prize, said in a statement read to The Associ­
ated Press earlier in the day: "Solidarity ... still exists as an organiza­tion, only we cannot officially act. We didn't cease to be Solidarity members. We are still together and that's what constitutes our strength." -AP 
Of Interest 

Today's Open Forum topic is economics. The 
forum meets today and every Wednesday at the Fieldhouse Mall and is held to allow members of the Notre Dame community to express their opinions on pertinent social issues. No preparation is neces­sary. -The Obseroer 
Former National Security Advisor Richard Al­
len will be speaking tonight at 8 in the Library Auditorium on the topic "American Foreign Policy in the 1980s." There will be a ques­tion and answer period after the talk. The speech is being sponsored by the Committee on Ideas and Issues. -The Obseroer 
"Kiss me for the United Way" is the slogan 
residents of Badin Hall will be using in its campaign for United Way. Wearing buttons with this slogan throughout the week, all males are encouraged to support the United Way by donating a minimum of fifty cents for one kiss from a button-clad Badinite. This fund-raising event will run until Sunday, so look for your favorite Badinite on campus. -The Obseroer 

Weather 

Partly sunny and mild 
today after the fog lifts this morning. High in the lower to mid 70s. Becoming cloudy tonight with a 20 percent chance of thunder­showers toward morning. Low in the upper 50s. Mostly cloudy with 30 percent chance of thundershowers tomorrow. High in the lower 

70s. -AP 

The Obsei'Yel' 
lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observeris published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( SlO per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ......................... Chris Bowler 
DeslgnAsslstant.. ......................... Andy Saal 
Layout Staff............................ Karen Vuono 
Typesetters ..................................... Vic Sciulli 
Kathryn Humm News Editor............................... Mark Potter Copy Editor.................................... Uz Miller Sports Copy Editor ....................... Phil Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino VIewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout......................... Bob Henke 
ND Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker SMC Day Editor.................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Deslgn .................... AnnaMarie Fudeigh 
john O'Connor Pbotograpber............................. Mary Flynn 
Wednesday, October 10, 1984 -page 2 



Doonesbury evolves from college to real world 
Doonesbury is back. You've been hearing about it for 
weeks, and now you can a~tually open up your 
Obseroer (or Chicago Tribune orSouth Bend Tribune) 
and actually read the often controversial comic strip. 
Since its inception, Doonesbury has been a semi­
accurate barometer ofpolitical attitudes across college 
campuses. It usually has a prominent place in college 
newspapers since students can read the strip to find out 
what the mood of the nation's college students is like. 
The new and improved Doonesbury, judging from 
what has run so far, seems to have departed from the 
realm ofcollege liberalism and has entered the world of 
the young urban professional -the Yuppie who seems 
so dominant in business these days and who seems to be 
the role model for some Notre Dame business students. 
This change in intended audience may have taken place for a number of reasons. One is logistics. The original characters of the strip, Mike Doonesbury, Zonker Harris and the rest, lived at Walden, a house on the outskirts of a college 
which the characters atten­ded. Football games, student radio stations and post-game mixers played a central role in the strip as Doonesbury used these topics to com­ment on the attitude of 
campuses across the nation. survive in a world that
WELCOMe 10 

The characters never grew decidely doesn't want them.
THE RCIJL WORUJ 

up, it seemed, and Zonker and the rest were seemingly frozen in time. 
But now, with the per­meating conservative atti­tude present here and on campuses all over the country, a strip about stu­dents who actually cared about issues rather than getting good grades and high­paying jobs would be out ofplace and irrelevant. 
The strip's creator, Garry Trudeau, realized this and in the last few years before his hiatus the strip dealt mainly with issues outside the college campus, such as Duke's dealings with undercover FBI agents posing as cocaine dealers and a documentry about the workings of Ronald Reagan's brain. The material for Trudeau's earlier strip was simply no longer applicable. 
During the two year break, the characters ofDoones­bury have graduated from college (though some still live in Walden) and are now attempting to enter the real world -getting jobs and being directly affected by the policies of the current presidential administration. This seems somehow natural, in that most college stu­dents are now looking at what their job opportunities will be after graduation and what career choices gaurantee the most room for quick advancement. Most students no longer seem to be concerned with using 
March 
'"'0.ot
'Jt' 1mes 
SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 




TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
.Mif 
~ § mw §JP)CD)rtit~ 
lUl mJllimlii'c~dl ~ illThcc" 
Skydiving instruction and Paraplane Flight instruction 
219-586-3580 ........ 219-586-2663 Ho•e 
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 
Inside Wednesd 

their time in ~.:ollcgc for moral growth and correcting social injustice. 
The college newspapers that carried the strip in its earlier years did so because the picture it drew of the liberal attitude of college students was accurate and consistent with what students really felt. Now that the strip is back, college newspapers are once again picking it up, but for a different reason. 
The strip is still accurate in depicting the attitudes of 
college students simply because the strip is no longer set in college. And for most students, this is not what they want to read about anyway. They want to see these characters who like them were once struggling through academia, but are now on the outside world, meeting the challenges of career pursuits and trying to 
The change in the format of the Doonesbury comic strip is definitive of the change in attitudes of col­lege students. Most are no longer as concerned with the time spent in school as they are with the what they will be doing once they get 
out. 
If the strip still were set in college today and featured the message of the liberal university student as it once did it would be doubtful if it would be as popular on campuses as it is. Most students today really don't pos­sess the same ideas about social justice and morality that the characters of Doonesbury have. A new version of the old Doonesbury would be a dismal failure. Trudeau knows this and has made the necessary adjust­ment. 
The characters still have the liberal outlook, as is evidenced by the amount ofsatire the current presiden­tial administration suffers. But in the strip so far, the message ofthe young urban professional has been dom­inant. The characters are entering job markets, they are coping with reality. 
It would be nice if Doonesbury still reflected the liberal attitude of college students in a humorous and topical manner. But unfortunately this attitude is ex­tinct as the Dino the dinasour. 




The Observer 
Wednesday, October 10, 1984 -page 3 


Police have better test against drunks 
Associated Press motorist to focus on the tip as the officer moves the pen around. 
GARY, Ind. -Jerky eye movements A drunken motorist cannot and poor cum:cntratiun are telltale smoothly track a moving object, and signs of drinking that may help the drunker the motorist, the more police in northwest Indiana to snag difficult the task, pollee say. The test more drunken drivers. has long been used by doctors 
Police in four communities have looking for eye abnormalities. learned three new field sobriety A Gary lawyer who defends tests that check involuntary eye motorists charged with driving movement and the ablllty to think while intoxicated says the medical and balance at the same time. principle that undergirds the eye 
"The National Highway Traffic test could make his job more diffi­Safety Administration Is trying to cult.
APPhoto 
make these tests standardized "A lot of our attacks on the cur­
Seeking asylum 
throughout the United States," High­rent field sobriety tests would be land Sgt. Jerry Toler told the Gary nullified with this test," attorney
joseSanchez, left, andhisfamilyjuan Carlos(2), dramatize the plight of Salvadoran illegal im­
Post-Tribune in a recent interview. John D. Breclaw said. 
Carla (4), Claudia (6), and wifeMarlnaprepare to migrants like themselves 
One test looks for a condition Stlll, jerky eye movements could 
depart Little Rock Monday in a caravan to 
called gaze nystagmus -the involun­be caused by the use of legal or ille­tary, rapid movement of the eyeball. gal drugs or by a medical condition, The other tests require the motorist he said. to walk and then turn, and to stand Pollee officers trained in the eye
Lifted restrictions allow students 
on one leg, while following an offi­test wlll also administer the other cer's instructions. new field tests -walking and turning, State law defines a blood-alcohol and the one-leg stand. Both require
to park in lot during home games 
level of .1 0 percent as legally drunk. the motorist to follow a series of In­Pollee officers using the old sobriety structions while maintaining bal­By MARY HUFFMAN when a large number of tickets Foldesi and Director of Secur­
tests generally can't detect levels of ance. News Staff were issued to student cars ity Richard Clebek, after examin­
drunkenness ranging from .I0 per­A manual published by federal parked in the lot. ing the amount ofspace left in the 
cent to .13 percent blood-alcohol, safety officials says drunken Saint Mary's students who have Students complained to Stu­lot during the October 6 football 
Schererville Patrolman Michael motorists have difficulty performing cars will now be able to park in dent Government about the tick­game, dropped the parking 
Kesie said. such "divided attention" tests. the l.eMans parking lot on foot­ets because they were unaware restriction. 
Police say that means many legally hall weekends. Previously, the lot of the restriction, Anne Marie "We wanted to be pro-active 
drunk motorists go free because the was rt."Served for families, friends, Kollman, Vice President of Stu­rather than re-active," said Fol­
Saint Mary's

officer can't establish probable 
cause for the more conclusive football weekends. Director of Personnel, also said 
and visitors of Saint Mary's on dent Affairs, said. Bob Foldes!, des! in response to the decision. 
breath analysis test. 
appoints new

"Officers will be able to bring in '!be previous restriction on it." any complaints yet. She and Fol­
he had "gotten a lot offlack about Kollman said she has not heard 
more drivers who are at .I0 than parking in the LeMans lot was not Student Government and Fol­desi both said the new policy will 
ever before," Hammond Cpl. Jay 
PR director 

Govert said. home game on September 22, the problem. or problems arise. 
enforced until this year's first des! met on October I to discuss remain as long as no complaints 
In the eye movement test, the offi­Lawrence W. Durance, Vice Presi­cer holds up a pen and asks the; dent for College Relations at Saint 

wbt ICnigltht oftilt atastlt 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest $ mlnut;; from campus~ 
272-0312 277-1691 

HAIRCUTS
~-t~ ~5 f'crra~-e Lane 
(~I ltd. 25) 
Aero~~ lrom Marlm's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 
~********************************** 
~ 
~ SAB Musical Entertainment Presents * 
~ * 
~ * 
~ * 
: THE BANGLES i 
LIVE!I
i : 
~ * 
: live at Stepan Center : : Sunday, Oct. 14 at 8:00pm ~ 
t : 
~ : 
~ • toured with Flock ofSeagulls * The BAND, The SOUND

~ ~ 
~ • hit single "Hero Takes a Fall" * FRIDAY, OCT. l'l
~ ~ 
~ •onMTV * 
10-2am
~ * 
~ * 
~ * 
~ * 
ICE TEA SPECIAL $1.35
~ ~ 
~ * 
t tickets: $3.50 in advance ~ 
PANC.LNL, .•.

t $4.50at the door : ~ * 
: on sale at SAB record store ~ ~ and in Dining Halls ~ 
: * 


~********************************** 

Mary's, has appointed Paula McLean as Director of Public Rela­tions there. 
McLean's professional experience includes work in media relations, special events, publications and community relations in New York and Chicago. 
The Publicity Club of Chicago awarded Mcl.ean two Golden Trum­pet awards for excellence in public relations. She is a former president of Women in Communications, Inc., North Shore (Chicago) Chapter. 

Paula McLean 
Recently McLean was awarded a Master of Arts degree frorn Notre Dame University In Counseling Psy­chology. She is Bereavement Coprd­inator for the Hospice of St. Joseph County. 
McLean resides in Syracuse with her husband and two sons. 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
•
Unitedway 

The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1984-page 4 



Program in Ireland exposes students to different cultures 

································~ 
Philadelphia Club Bus Sign-ups! : 
Wednesday, Oct. lOth •+ 8:00-9:00 p.m.~ : 

+ lstfloor ~ ~-+ : Lafortune [Jl , : 
: For more information call Owen 288-2361 : 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 
I 1' t ~ . , .' ......
• \ 
NEW JERSEY CLUB 
October Break Bus 
Sign-ups: Monday October 15 6-Spm 2nd floor LaFortune 
~-·-~ 
$80 Round Trip Only!

~i~ 
LECTURE SERIES 
What is Art? 
This series ofThursday night talks will examine three ofthe major movements in twentieth century art. Each lecture will cover the basics ofthe movement discussed and will be structured to appeal to a wide audience. 
REALISM October 11, 1984 8:00pm
Dr. Marjorie Schreiber Kinsey 
ABSTRACTION October 18, 1984 Stephen B. Spiro 7:30pm 
EXPRESSIONISM November 1, 1984 Professor Robert Leader 7:30pm 

There will be a $2.00 chargefor Annenberg Auditorium non-members and $1.00for The Snite Museum of Art Friends and students. University of Notre Dame 
DQnna Sarver exclaims: 
''I LOST 61 LBS. 
with Nutri/System Program" 
• 
~ Jo cJ1et pills, no injections • \f1ed1colly supervised 

• 
·~o starvation or food decisions 

•1v11stoke-proof 
food plan, no constant colone-counting 


•· Jutn/System guarantee: follow the Nutn/System program and lose we1ght quickly, often up too pound 
o day Achieve your goal by the dote speCified or pay no additional charges for Nutri/System services unt11 you do. 
Call Today for a FREE, No Obligation Consultation 

OFFER $99°0 SPECIAL 
Not valid

EXPIRES 
Lose all the weight you want in

10'24'84 with any 4 weekc; for only $99.00 nther offer. 
:>WfHS 
\'alid tor
ONLY 288-8333 
""". di...nts
a;;.:• . • 

Present NDISMC 
•-ft'·1'1Qit1j(l,~ ...,... ,,tv 

J.D. for discount on physical cost. ~-I
..............icM --­
011er 700 CentP.rs in North Am"ric:a 
.. 

ByMUCHELEMARCHAND 
News Staff 
Each September twenty-five stu­dents from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's travel to County Kildare, Ireland. For a year they study at Saint Patrick's College in Maynooth, fif­teen miles west of Dublin. 
The Saint Mary's foreign studies 
program in Ireland is an excellent 
opportunity for students with strong 
academic ability and motivation to 
"immerse themselves in another 
culture," said Ellen Pugh, director of 
the program. 
Sophomores, and occasionally 
juniors participate in the Ireland 
program. The program is geared 
toward the liberal arts, but Pugh said 
she strives for a balanced program. A 
group that's "not predominantly 
anything" provides a better cultural 
year for all, Pugh said. 
The primary criterion for partici­
pation is strong self-motivation, oe­
cause the program is very 
independent. Students live in their 
Corrigan 
continuedfrom page 1 
Corrigan attributed the decision to have ND play in last year's Uberty Bowl in part to the fact that the Uberty Bowl Chairman was a Notre Dame Alumnus. He said that going into the Penn State game at 6-3 they expected Notre Dame to beat the Nittany lions and face Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl. When ND lost they assumed that the Irish would not at­tend a bowl game. 
However, the chairman of the Uberty Bowl, an alumnus o{ Notre Dame, said that the loss to Penn State was a dream come true for him be­casuse the Irish would then be available for the Uberty Bowl, Cor­rigan said. 
The decision to go was put before 
the faculty committee and it was 
decided that ND would beat Air 
Force and finish 7-4 and therefore 
should play in the Liberty Bowl. 
When Air Force upset Notre Dame 
Corrigan said,"lt became a real 
mess." 
Corrigan said that many of the 
players felt the bowl was a good ex­
perience because it gave them a 
chance to regain lost confidence and 
end the season on an up note. 
Debate 
continuedfrom page 1 
to throw the economy into a reces­sion while simultaneously cutting back the aid for those who would be aliected by it." 
Rakowski concluded by em­phasizing the technical side of Reaganomics. He stressed that the figures must be evaluated rather than relying on a generalized im­pression and blanket statements. 
The debate, which consisted of a 
fifteen minute opening address, a 
rebuttal, a question and answer per­
iod, and a closing statement, was ex­
tremely informal. 
The audience consisted of 
approximately 75 students and a few 
faculty members. 
Mike Lochhead, co-coordinator of 
the debate, said "I was pleased with 
the turnout and I think the debate 
itselfwent very well." 
The next debates in the series sponsored by the Election Task Force will be held Monday, Oct. 15 and Monday, Oct. 29. The first will focus on life issues and the Oct. 29 debate will deal with the nuclear arms issue. 
own houses and manage their finances. There is no strict cut-oJJ GPA, but applicants must have two academic recommendations and a personal recommendation. 
Meetings for the program are mandatory, and applications are due Dec. I. The applicants go through an interviewing process, and 25 are se­lected. The cost is approximately the same as a year's tuition at Saint Mary's, but students must pay their rent and travel expenses. 
Nancy Brennan, a senior who studied in Ireland two years ago, said the best thing about the program is the "opportunity to see America from another viewpoint." Irish cul­ture is very different than in the United States-"people are more laid back," she said. The appreciation of time was stressed over three-hour teas. 
Brennan lived with three other girls in a house where the only heat was from a peat-burning fireplace. "It's really a simple lifestyle," she said. They went to school with Irish students and spent time at The Roost, one of four pubs in the one­street village of Maynooth. 
Students also had the chance to travel to continental Europe over breaks. There was time to hitchhike around Ireland, a beautiful country described as apicture frame because of its stunning coastline. In the beginning of the year, students hiked to high-security Belfast at a time when there was a bomb scare. 
The next meeting for the Ireland program is tonight at 6:30 in Room 232 Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. More information will be available, as well as applications, and new ap· plicants are welcome. 
•· ~· .• I 


1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272·4135 
The~Observer 
Applications for Project Manager 
are due today by 5 p.m. Any questions, see Bob Vonderheide 
ZOOLOGY MAJORS GO APE FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 


------~~------------------~­
The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1984-page 5 
.,.~ 
......--....

fl~---y ..£~ ,. ., •. A•• 
r r ~ · m~!\~.~~' ·· .....:..~~.~. Iraq brea~s Iqll in Gulf war, ·)JlH~;· .-~:.~: . ~~\\t' ott r~ atta_cks L1benan ship, 6 dead 
!vt:· d • 
g, 

rTRIKt 
sr~~u/W~Nmll~ ~ ~,;.. .;~ 7.":;-wa<p...~ broke, 22 ::'i~:.iF~ :;~:~22::: ~:;:;?.::!~;;:-;;,~~:~~ 
... lMPlO'fU ~ ' ~~ ~ day lull in attacks on Persian Gulf ship's aft section, wrecking the from Hong Kong. ~~." shipping Monday by hitting a super-engine room and setting fire to the Tite World Knight Is owned by the
0W 

11 tanker with an Exocet missile, set-crew's quarters. They reported at Greek company Niarchos and ting the vessel afire and killing six least one life raft was lowered. operated by Hong Kong shipping crewmen, shipping sources re-Iranian navy helicopters flew to magnate Sir Y.K Pao's World-Wide


STRIE 

ported. the crippled ship to aid the rescue Shipping Group, sources said. 
Six other seamen were badly effort, and at least one salvage com-Tht: Iraqi military statement said burned in the attack on the 254,000-pany tugboat took aboard survivors the raid was an "implementation of ton, Uberian-registered World and stayed on the scene to fight the previous warnings to all ships Knight, marine shipping and salvage fire, sources said. against sailing to Kharg or other sources said in Bahrain. The nationality of the victims was Iranian ports." 
An Iraqi military communique said "two large naval targets" were attacked southwest of Iran's Kharg 
Five teenagers taken 
Island oil shipping terminal. Iraq commonly refers to ships as "naval targets" in communiques about its 
from liquor store lot 
four-year-old war with Iran. Assoicated Press from the van as it stopped at a rail· Marine shipping and salvage exec­road crossing. "They told me they utives in Bahrain said only one ship CHICAGO -Five teen-age women were lucky and picked the right mo­was hit. They said radio operators looking for someone over 2I to buy ment," Starke said. 
APPhoto 

picked up a distress signal, "We are liquor for them were abducted at Police said the three other wo·
Signs ofthe times 
under attack; we are on fire," from gunpoint from a liquor-store parking men were not close enough to the 
Striking employees march near the main .ticket booth at Dis­the World Knight at II :30 a.m. ( 4:30 lot and three of them later were back of the van to escape and later neyland in Anaheim, Cal., Monday where 10 people were arrested a.m. EDT). raped, police said. were raped. after the group failed to acknowledge a court order prohibiting The same sources, speaking only The women, all from the south Pollee said the abductors freed pickets by the booths. on condition of anomymity, said it Chicago suburb of Calumet City, the three women on the Indiana Toll 
drove in a van to a local liquor store Road near Gary, Ind., where aut· 

AT FIVE CORNERS
DAILVSPECIALS OPEN 12 p.m. to 3 a.m. 
Antojitos Mexicanos (Appetizers) Old Milwaukee Gratis SOt/glass 7 -10p.m. $2.50 I pitcher 
COMMONS
WE HAVE CARRY OUT AT 

,------------------------------------------------------------,
101Jrt0ff 

FOOTBALL FANS With This DAYS INN MOTEL Coupon!! BATON ROUGE 

• Two locations near the stadium: 
10245 Airline Hwy · (504) 293-9680 215 Lobdell Hwy-(504) 387-0671 
1-800-325-2525
Tryus.Andcompare: 
I Good/or Oct. 27th Football game against LSU Tigers. 
L-----------------------------------------------------------­

montgomery 

will conduct 1nterv1ews on this campus THURSDAY, NOV. B & FRIDAY, NOV. 9. Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree candidates 1n BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus. contact your placement office. 
montgomery 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNil Y EMPLOYER 

Montgomery Elevator Company. Moline. 1111n01S 61265 Montgomery E:levator Co. L1m1ted. Toronto. Ontano M9B3S5 Oft1ces 1n pnnc1pal c1t1es ol North Amenca 
late Saturday, police said. 
As one woman left the van to find someone to buy alcohol, a man with a handgun forced her back into the vehicle, said Calumet City Police Of­ficer john Starke. A second man car· rying a sawed-off shotgun joined the abductor, who drove the van to In­diana. 
During the two-hour ordeal, two of the women escaped by jumping horitles believe a third man driving a getaway car picked up the two gun· 
men. 
Cpl. Richard Broughton said In­diana State Police officers found the abandoned van and the three wo· men about I a.m. Sunday. 
The women were treated at St. Margaret Hospital in Hammond, Ind., and released, police said. 
No arrests have been made. 

• 
RESTAURANT & LOUNGE 1033 LAKE STREET 
NILES. MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 
a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

JUST ASK ANYONE! 
The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint MQry's Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Production Manag~ 
Motivated person needed to coordinate and direct layout and design of The Observer. The production manager Is In charge of a staff of design editors and layout personnel who produce the newspaper at night. Duties Include scheduling, establishing guidelines and training. It is a salaried position. 
Applications are due on Wednesday, October 10. 
For information and an application, call Mark Worscheh at 239-5303. 
The Observer, 3rd Floor LaFortune Student Center 


View~_O_l_·_n_t________
w_ed-ne-sd....ay_,o_c_tob-er_I....o,_I9-84_.p_ag.._e_6 




Sure, they said it would be tough. It would take a lot oftime and require organization. But they didn't tell us that being a social commis­sioner would be alomost impossible. Now, thanks to the latest "Special Bulletin," the pos­sibility of off-campus social events is fading fast. 
On Sept. 14, our dorm, Walsh Hall, held a Luau at Erskine Country Club. The two of us, besides having the event approved of by the administration in advance, even scheduled a special meeting with Dr. Goldrick the week of 
Fox and Boland 
guest column 

the event. We told him all of our plans, even about the open bar included in the ticket price. We confidently tQld our Rectress, Sr.Jo, that everything had been okayed. But that was then, and this is now. 
After the event, a Rector from a boys' dorm on campus made a phone call to Dr. Goldrick on our "behalf." We'd really like to express our appreciation, but we have yet to discover his identity. In this phone call, this Rector des­cribed our Luau as out-of-control. Since we realize that second-hand information is AL­WAYS the complete truth, we again commend this Rector for his quick action. Dr. Goldrick followed this phone call with one of his own to our Rectress. We were accused oftrying to get around the rules. Sr. )o, because she was aware of the situation, was able to defend us. We heard this story later through the hall grapevine. To check its validity, instead offol­lowing the example previously set by the Rec­tor, we set up an appointment to meet with Dr. Goldrick. 
But wait; there's more. Before the date of our appointment, a "Special Bulletin" was 




Off -campus events are 
tougher than thought 
issued to every dorm on campus. This "Bulletin" ruled expost facto that our Luau at Erskine broke the rules. It set up a policy that requires the manager of the establishment holding the social to sign a contract including every item on the "Bulletin." At our appoint­ment with Dr. Goldrick, he assured us that nothing had fundamentally changed, and that there would be no difficulty in getting the contract signed. We thought differently, but kept silent. Instead, we listened for almost an hour as Dr. Goldrick discussed liability, in full force, with newspaper clippings documenting lawsuits. He painted a grisly picture, one of automobile wrecks and bodies at a morgue. The emotion was high, but a nine-letter word was higher. LIABIUTY! It is now the name of the game at Notre Dame. 
And last night, when we phoned Erskine to receive a reply to the photocopy of the "Special Bulletin" we dropped off last Thursday, we received an answer that didn't faze us a bit. We thought we'd better let every­one know, because we're betting it's a definite pattern of things to come. Yes, although Erskine will comply to every rule on the "Bulletin," they have been advised by security not to sign anything. We, in turn, advised Erskine to cancel our dances. 
We realize we are not mincing words, and we'd be more than happy to discuss our situa­tion and listen to suggestions. We're not giving up on a dorm social life off-campus, es­pecially since off-campus is where the admin­istration's alcohol policy is encouraging us to go. We have every intention ofCONTINUING to follow the written rules. But, for a dorm our size with students on budgets, the prospects look bleak. 
So for now, it's Welcome to Notre Dame, Kids! Where the Big Brother policy knows ab­solutely NO bounds. 
Pamela Fox and Nell Boland are Walsh Hall Social commissioners. 
Notre Dame will always 

remain a special place 
In thinking abol!t reactions to the recent football game, the disappointment, the dis­gust, and especially the diminished spirit among my fellow Domers, I pondered the question-What is Notre Dame all about? Does Notre Dame stand for "Our Football Team?" I think not. Notre Dame means "Our Lady." This simple meaning is easily forgotten in the midst of a "dreaded" football loss, the much­criticized alcohol policy, and the tremendous 
Carol Brow,n 
~Vf/~VYf-)~ \JL-­

z d!-: 
~1\& l=c\\\
f{)f 

~ 
~ 
guest column 
academic pressures faced by all; yet, this meaning is the very essence of the University. The core and character of Notre Dame, the specialness of Notre Dame, is found in those two simple words-"Our Lady." 
I am writing this article in tribute to Notre Dame. She is where the spirit ofthe lJniversity stemsfrom, not from a "sack" or a touchdown. Although I have only claimed the title of "Domer" for a few short weeks, Her presence has already found a speeial place in my life. Just to catch a glimpse of the glorious Golden Dome is emough to make me realize how very lucky I am to be here -we are to be here. The 
word "inspirational" ~omes to mind. 
One dreary Monday afternoon this usually 
quite cheerful freshman was struck by the 
pangs of homesickness and emptiness. It 
seemed the only possible way to pull myself 
out of this pool of gloom was to somehow 
clear my mind -to take time out to put my life 
into perspective. So thanks to the suggestion 
ofa thoughtful friend I ventured to the Grotto. 

Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to the columns, articles and illustrations printed this newspaper, but througb 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address issues which have not been raised to your satisfaction in this newspaper. Viewpoint encourages all ofits readers to fully expore and voice their opinions. Simply send your letter toP. 0. Box Q or deltever it to our office. Letters should be no longer than 150 words in length and guest columns should notexceed 600 words. All works must besigned. 
If the presence of Our Lady is to be felt anywhere, it is here. 
The feeling of peace is overwhelming. Al­though I left that night still tear-drenched, I also left with a feeling of relief and warmth. I left knowing that things were not that bad. I realized that finishing (or for that matter start· ing) that "important" paper or reading those infinite number ofpages meant nothing in the scheme of life. What mattered was that I was here -at Notre Dame -and I was being guided by a gentle, loving, and strong hand. Our Lady had alleviated my uncertainties and I could now see my life more clearly; I was able to unboggle my boggled up mind. This sort of specialness is what sets Notre Dame apart from other universities and colleges. Regard­
less of how bad the football team plays, how 
restricting the alcohol policy is, or how de· 
manding classes can be · the aura of Notre 
Dame shadows over these minor difficulties 
and makes them trivial. 
Granted, it is O.K. to experience feelings of disappointment after the loss of a football game or the failure of an exam, but those feelings must be put aside so that the higher meaning of Notre Dame must always prevail. She is among us always, guiding us, protecting us, and directing our sometimes confusing lives down a path ofenrichment, growth, and true happiness. We are N.D.-and the outcome ofa football game cannot change this. 
In closing, I will say that this article was written in the spirit of gratitude to Our Lady. Thank you, Notre Dame. You have helped this student "survive" her first encounters with Notre Dame, You have made her feel priveleged to be a part of Your greatness, and You have made her want to stay here for the next four years. 
Carol Brown is a freshman atNotre Dame 

The Observer. Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
EdJtor·tn-Chtef. . Bub Vonderheide Busmess Manager Dave Ta1clet Managmg Edttor . . Mark Worscheh Controller . Mar1pat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . Sarah Hamilton Adverllstng Manager Anne Culligan Untvers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly News Editor ~ ... .... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the adm1n1stration of either mstitution. The news 1s reported as Samt Mary's Ed1tor .. . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager Kevm Williams accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned ed1tor1als represent the opm1on Sports Editor. ... Michael Sullivan of a major1ty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Viewpotnt Editor . ........... Dave Grote present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space 1S available to all members of the Features Editor . ... Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966

commun1ty. and the free express1on of varymg opmions on campus. through letters. Photo Editor . ... .. Pete Laches IS encouraged. 

Showcase 
Wednesday, October 10, 1984-page 7 
Juniper Press to publish Observer classified ads 
SpKialto the Observer 
-orse Died/ Need Ride to Bos­
ton, a collection ofObseroer 
Personal ads, has been selected 
from among several manuscripts for 
publication during the fall semester 
by the members ofJuniper Press, a 
student owned and operated 
publishing house founded at Notre 
Dame. 
lbe co-authors of the work are 
two Notre Dame students and 
members of the juniper Press staff: 
Margaret Fosmoe, a senior English 
and American Studies major from 
Kalamazoo, Mi., and Julianne jones, 
a fourth year English, French, and 
H 
ALPA major from St. Louis, Mo. Fosmoe serves as Fulfillment Manager for Juniper Press, while Jones acts as Copy Editor. 
The book publishing course was established at Notre Dame by Asso­
• elate Professor Elizabeth Christman, a novelist and former literary agent, to allow students to gain experi­ence in the publishing industry as they form and operateJuniper Press each year. 
In its nine year history, the com­pany has published such popular works as Michael Molinelli's 
Molarity: On the Road to Selltng Out, and Ralph Maclnerny's Quick 
as a Dodo, Abecedary, and The 
Frozen Maiden ofCalpurnla. The company's most recently published 
work was Michael Varga's play 
Payable Upon Return. 
This year's project,Horse Died! NeedRide to Boston, is a unique and challenging one for Juniper Press. The staffselected this work for the appeal it should have for Notre Dame students and alumni, as well as for those who are not associ­ated with the University. As a col­lection ofthe more humorous and creative Obseroer Personals from the past four years, HorseDied/ NeedRide to Boston should offer fun, light reading, and provide a lighthearted view ofstudent life at Notre Dame. 
Test your news IQ 
A.8sodated PteiiS How much do you remember about the stories that have been in the news recently? Ifyou score fewer than five correct answers, you have been spt·nding too much time on the crossword puzzle. If you get eight or more right, you rate an "A." 
I. A display of modern missiles highlighted a parade.· in Peking marking: (a) the.· 35th anniversary of Communist rule; (b) the 91 st an­niversary of Mao Tse-tung's birth; 
(c) China's traditional Labor Day. 
1.. Labor Secretary Raymond). Donovan pleaded innocent to a 137-coumindictmem charging him with participation In a scheme to defraud: (a) the Port Authority of New York; (b) the New York City Transit Authority; (c) New York State Department ofTransportation. 
3. An FBI agent and two Soviet emigres were arrested In California and accused of espionage, the first time such a charge had been lodged against an FBI agent · he was said to have given the Russians classified Information about: (a) sat· ellite photography ofshipping; (b) FBI and U.S. intelligence activities; (c) high-tech defense research. 
4. 
Two House Foreign Affairs committees approved a nonbintling resolution about the U.S. embassy in Israel: (a) to move it from Tel-Aviv toJerusalem; (b) to divide its func­tions betweenJerusalem and Tel­Aviv; (c) to move It from Jerusalem to Tel-Aviv. 

5. 
One of the nation's 10 largest banks announced that it would report a third-quarter loss ofat least $70 million · that bank is: (a) the International City Bank of Washing­ton; (b) the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co.; (c) the First National Bank of Chicago. 

6. 
President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt charged that plots to attack Egypt's Aswan Dam and me Suez Canal had been concocted by: (a) Iran; (b) Israel; (c) Ubya. 

7. 
In the far north of Quebec, more than 7,000 migrating animals 


were drowned trying to tord swol­len rivers and there were fears ofa similar fate for thousands more · the animals were: (a) elk; (b) moose; 
(c) caribou. 

8. A 2-year prison term and a $1 0,000 fine for tax evasion were imposed on the first sitting federal judge ever to be convicted ofa felony. he is Federal District Judge: (a)J. Wayland Downs of Detroit; 
(b) 
Harry E. Claiborne ofLas Vegas; 

(c) 
Edward F. Ferrars of Miami. 


9. A ceasefire which would be policed by South African troops was agreed to by the Marxist govern­ment and the Insurgents seeking to overthrow it in: (a) Mozambique; 
(b) Angola; (c) Zimbabwe. 
I0. Three Soviet astronauts com­pleted history's longest space flight when they returned to earth in a descent module after having spent In space a total of: (a) 327 days; (b) 195 days; (c) 237 days. 
ANSWERS: l.a 2.b 3.b 4.a 5.c 6.c 
7.c B.b 9.a I O.c. 
Features briefs 
Aslloclated PreM San Clemente and Kara Webber of New Zealand also 
floated on a surtboard, as did I50 guests. 
SAN ONOFRE, Calif. · The bride and groom were all Ms. Webber, wearing a white swim suit, white· veil wet, but the couple's splashy nuptials were swell as they and a necklace of white flowers, floated next to Page. sat astride surfboards, a half-mile from shore in the Then a scuba diver popped to the surface bearing two Pacific Ocean. wedding bands. 
'Ibe minister who married lifeguards Greg Page of Mrs. Page then swam over to her new husband, 
Ellsworld 

decked out in top hat and tails, and they paddled off
R.H.E. 
together on a board built for two. "We're going to catch waves all over the world," said Page, 29. 
A San Clemente city lifeguard for the past 10 years, he met his bride-to-be two years ago when he went to New Zealand in a lifeguard exchange program. Miss Webber, 20, was a lifeguard at Orewa Surf Club near Auckland. 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. · Harol Wayne Ramsey is a drugstore cowboy who went to his first auction at the Ventura County Fair and spent S24,295 · learning the hard way just how expensive lamb is by the pound. 
Ramsey, a nurse who inherited a farm, says he liked Nam Nam . a black-booted Suffolk with a sweet face and an immaculately white coat · but he thought he was bidding S2.1 5 a pound for the 113-pound lamb, instead of S215. 
Ramsey now hopes to break even by breaking Nam Nam into television. 
Nam Nam arrived Monday in a stretch limousine at the Theatre of Arts on Wilshire Boulevard, hoping to become Hollywood's newest embraceable ewe. 
A flock of reporters witnessed the deb1,1t ot tne ex­pensive lamb, a commotion that the Los Angeles Ti~es described in a headline as "much ado about mutton. 
Valmar Oleska, who runs the Theater ofArts, recom­mended that Nam Nam go into acting. One of Oleska's most famous graduates Is Morris the Cat. 
Shy person's 
guide to life 
by Cat Francis 
features columnist 

I 
n every crowd, every group, every angry mob, there ,are three 
distinct character types. The first group, ofwhich there are only 
a few, are the brash, afraid-of-nothing extroverts. The second 
group, which has the largest number of members, are the normals. 
The third group is one that is rarely noticed · the shy. 
I'm not talking about the people who would hesitate before walking across campus nude. I'm talking about the people who would have a hard time just walking across campus. 
They are the unnoticed, the ignored, the people who lose their places in the lunchline. They know the correct answer to questions in class, but they keep it to themselves, because they're not sure you'd be interested. 
They do not dress flamboyantly; they do not stand out in a crowd. But they exist, nonetheless. 
Often they are trampled by other people around them. But now it's time they stood up for themselves. And to help them get started I have compiled a few situations in which the shy may begin to assert themselve&, which may not prove essential to their survival. 
Returning overdue books to the library is a matter which haunts 
the nightmares of many shy people. They know that any librarian 
worth his or her salt will pick up the book, see the overdue date, 
and begin to glare menacingly. They may even go so far as to give a 
short lecture on the value ofresponsibility. They might go so far as 
to call out your name, and how late the book is, when you scuffle 
back to pay the fine. . 
There must be a better way. First, check out a few books. Stroll 
nonchalantly up to the counter, looking as though an overdue book 
is the last thing on your mind. Place the overdue book beneath the 
non-overdue books, and slip the whole pile into the return slot. 
With any luck, they'll check the non-overdue books first, giving you a chance to make a break for the Pit and comfortable anonymity. 
Wear nondescript clothing so you won't be recognized when you 
emerge. 
Cashiers often seem to go out of their way to annoy shy people. For a shy person, pointing out an incorrect charge or an insuf­ficiency ofchange to a store clerk is painfully embarassing. Many cashiers are pleasant when an error is pointed out. Others are down right humiliating. 
There are several tactics one can use to deal with these obnoxious salesclerks. Extroverted friends can be of invaluable assistance, since they won't think twice about going up and embarassing the clerk as much as he embarrassed you. 
Another method is popular In a number ofcultures. It involves making a voodoo doll ofthe cashier and sticking pins in it. Although this will probably have little or no effect on the person, it will make you feel considerably better. 
People who cut in line are annoying. Mention in an undertone to a nearby friend (or a wall or ketchup dispenser, should you prove too shy to have any friends) the highly contagious social disease you recently acquired. Watch the crowds melt away before your very eyes. 
The juke-box syndrome is when you don't want to play music on the juke-box because you're not sure everyone else likes "She-Bop" as much ru; you do. At the very least, those within earshot and eyeshot will know it was you who played the tune and will look at you witheringly. They might decide to throw food. 
To avoid either ofthese uncomfortable situations, you should wait until another student has just put some quarters in. When he Is finished meking his selections punch in the songs you like. No one will know which one ofyou picked which song. And ifthe other person looks accusingly at you when "Hungry Like the Wolf' starts playing, stare back. It's your glare against his. 
The greatest fear of a shy person when answering in class, even if he knows the answer, is that he may be wrong. People will laugh at you. They may tell their friends about the jerk in their class. lbe teacher may laugh at you. He may tell a funny story at the cocktail meeting he is invited to, and it will be about you, and the entire faculty will be laughing at you. Perhaps it's better not to risk It ... then again, perhaps it's better not to think about these things and 
just to go ahead and answer the question. 
Meeting members of the opposite sex. This Is a very tricky thing. 
Obviously, being shy, you can't come up with any clever come-ons 
or witty sayings. You can hope your shyness Is appealing and cute 
and wait for them to come on to you, or you can try something 
else. 
Stick close the person. Sooner or later, an extrovert will come and say something. Walt for the extrovert to go away. Catch the person's eye, shake your head, and say "What a jerk, huh?" 
With any luck, they'll be a fellow shy person. And they'll know exactly what you mean. 
,r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1984-page 8 
The Ohserr•a Notrt> l>amt> oltin·. locatnl on the 1hird lloor of l.ah>rlune SIUtknt Ct>ntn. atTepts classitkd adV(:rtising from'! a.m. until -t p.m.. Monday through Friday The Ohserl'er Saint Man's office. located on the third floor of llaggar College Center. accept' cla.,sifkd., from 12:.~0 p.m. until-~ p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline !i>r. nt·xt-day classi!kth is .~ p.m. All dassitieds must he prepaid. t>ithn in person or by mail. ( :hargc is I 0 cent-pt·r lin: charac­

Classifieds 
ters per day. 

NOTICES  I I.__F_O_R_R_EN_T__.  I have one Stud. Airforce ticket, but I'm not going to be here. Need a ticket; call2741. FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE TIX, CALL  MY FRIENDS Will DIE IF YOU DONT SELL ME AT LEAST 4 S.C.TIX. CALL MARTY AT 3528  URBAN PLUNGE URBAN PLUNGE URBAN PLUNGE  Corkay-­Happy Birthdey a week late. Glad you celebrated so heavily, just wish I had been there! I'II miss you, and your snooze  
1808  NEED TWO LSU TICKETS  48 HOURS YOU Will NEVER FOR·  alarm, next semester. Thanks lor the fun  
eXPERT TYPING 2n.a534 after 5:30  CALL TOM AT 23&-7471 AFTERNOONS  GETII  and infinite understanding.  
TYPiNG.AVAII..ABLE. 287-4082  Efficiency apt. private entrance utilities paid single person 288-Q955/2n-3604.  SEE YOUR CITY FROII THE INSIDE •  Loveya! Bootaie  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MRS. COKER 233·7009.  Furnished faculty apartment Casde Point available Jan-July 1 $295 month, 272·  TICKETS  Help me to keep 9 men happy at the same timel! Sell me your South Carolina tickets. ca112n-asn.  GET YOUR URBAN PLUNGE APPu­CATIONS FROM THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS· NOWIII  P .S. How old were you last week?!? SMC students: Get well wishes can be  
9605  sent to Juanita at room 1037, Memorial  
TYPING Jackie Bogga 684-8793  FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED· TO SHARE APARTMENT WITH THREE OTHERS AT NOTRE DAME APART·  HELPIII I NEED 3 GA OR PARENT'S  For Sale: 2 student tics lor S. Carolina and/or Air Force. Kathleen 284-4140 For Sale 2 Air Force GA's Best Otter·SMC  WHAT??II NO PLANS FOR JAN. 7 ·11 ??  Hoapital, South Ben<!. 46601 RUFUS, GO HOME!!  
Will type your papera, manuscripts, etc. Fast and accurate. Reuonable rates. Pick up and drop oil service. Cell Mary 234-5545. EXPERT TYPING 2n-11534 after 5:30  MENTS. $105.00/MO. CONTACT SHEILA AT 283-3791 OR 232-0746. WANTED  TICKETS FOR THE ND-SOUTH CAROLINA OAIIEIII NAIIE YOUR PRICEIII CAU.A9AII AT UIOII. WILL PAY lor 4-6 Penn State GA's. Pat 1155.  4116 For sale: 3 S. Carolina tickets. Call Pati at 3025  UVEN UP YOUR UFE ·GO ON AN URBAN PLUNGEII! URBAN PLUNGEIll URBAN PLUNGEIII GET APPUCATIONS FROII THE CEN-­ JO..ANNE BIAFORE, YOU'll ALWAYS BE A FRESHMAN. I WOULD LIKE TO BUY A VOWEL TO THE WOMEN IN 439 FARLEY, IT'S GONNA GET UGlY  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082.  RIIN WM'-d to PURDUEI Any and all  TER FOR NOW!II  SOCIAL  CONCERNS  •  ARE YOU A NOTRE DAME CREW OARSMAN? 0. AFTER A HARD DAYS  
weekends. Call nne at 2n-o1s1 or Shir·  SOUTH CAROLINA  WORK ON THE WATER, YOU LIKE TO  
GOVERNMENT JOBS.. $115,511 .. $50,5153/YEAR.. NOW HIRING.. YOUR AREA.. CALL 805-e87-eoocl EXT.. R­1834,  ley at 23&-5303. Need Ride To Fl. lor Break, call Karen 2720816.  Will trade 3 end zone GA's and 2 student tickets lor 3 respectable GA's. 4278  PERSONALS  NO CREW is on the RISE DOMINATION is the only word to describe DES MOINES NOW that we have CONQUERED IOWA the next stop is THE HEAD!!!!  A. ABUSE A CREW MOO. B. FEED THE DRAGON. C. DO HOMEWORK. D. SLAM "SILVERBULLETS"  
PRO-TYPE Specializing in dissertations, law papers, rMUmes and student papers 2n-5833 Wordproceesing and Typing. 272-8827  RIDE NEEDED TO DENVER FOR FALL BREAK. ANNE 284·5076 SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? I .-c1 • rlct. to Syr. for OclaMr bnltk. Can IMv• ThurMay WMIIng or 811ytime Friday. Will eh-ueual. Call  IIY UTTl..E SISTER WANTS TO CELEBRATE HER 18TH It-DAY BY COlliNG TO THE PENN ST GAllE. IF YOU CAN HELP liE OUT WITH A TICKET SHE Will BEAR YOU A SONI CAll MARY AT 2812 TODAY FOR  SEXSEXSEX BESIDES THAT I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. IF YOU CAN SUPPLY EITHER, CALL JOHN 0.1841. GIVE TO THE UNITED WAY!!!!! Please.  SILVER BULLETS the official refresh­ment of the NO CREW TEAM In the midst of tension BRIAN HAGAN comes up with the statement of the weekand, "I NEED A BEER!!!!!" BRIAN HAGAN is FRANK II  BLARB 8 WANTS TO BUY YOU A BEER, BRIAN HAGAN HEY FRANK, TELL YOUR DISCIPLES THAT THE NUTTY ALUM HAS HIT TOWN!  
BliiM 1420.  THIS OPPORTUNITY OF A UFEnMEI  Give RON MILETI a BIG HUG: he's 20  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117  SYRACUSE, NY BOUND?  DON'T SEll liE YOUR TROJAN tick·  HEYI WHAT ARE YOU DOIIIIINNOOO?  todeyll! HAPPY BIRTHDAY RON!!! ..M.  
Want to get to long llland lor Fall brlll!k? Ride the long Island dub bus tor only 68.00 Sign ups this Sunday Oct.14 at 4:00 p.m. in Lafortune lobby.  I .-c1 • rlct. to Syr. for OclaMr bnltk. Can IMv• enytlme after the geme on Saturdey, Wlll.tw.u•ual. Call Debbie .,284-5011.  eta.. I .-cl your PENN STATE G.A.a. Call Nick M 1580. I"ll SEll IIY TROJAN'S In orclw to buy S.C. G.A..a. Call larry lit 3815.  Well, if you're not doing anything during Fall Break and you think you might just want to go to New Orleans and have the time of your life, how about taking my $100 deposit oil my hands lor the mere  ND/SMC Italian Club, "COLUMBUS DAY CELEBRATION" PIZZA PARTY! at the St. Mary's Clubhouse, Wednesday, Octo­ber 10, 6:00 to 9:00. Tickets Available at the Door.  SURVIVORS STALK!! ···································· ARE YOU A NOTRE DAME CREW  
URBAN PLUNGEIII URBAN PLUNGEIII  Need ride to and or from MI,Detroit Oct 12·14 SMC Tammy 5181  AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-ao&  price of $50? It's a steal, if you ask me. Call Dray at 2807. Okay?  INFORMAL  INTERVIEWS  WITH  OARSMAN? FRANK IS ...  Q. WHO IS FRANK? A. A MOTORBOAT B A  
URBAN PLUNGEIII  RIDE  NEEDED to  Milwaukee lor Oct.  THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE  WASHINGTON SCHOOL  AND  LEE  LAW  DRAGON C. AN IMPORTED FROM COLORADO D.  BEER JOHN  
AN EXPERIENCE YOU FORGETIll  Will NEVER  Break. Hope to leave on Fri. Oct. 19. Will share expenses. Call Mark 3828.  Need 2 PENN STATE tickets. Will pay top dollar.Call SEAN at 4644.  WORLD needs a ride to Buffalo for Fall Break' Whaddeya think, huh? Ten hours in an  THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11 3-4:30 P ..ll. SIGN UP OUTSIDE OF 101  "WHERE'S YOUNGER  THE  BACK  SPLASH"  
GET YOUR APPUCATIONS FROII THE  itsy bltsy little car with the equivalent of  O'SHAG  SPONSORED  BY  N.D.  NOTRE DAME OARSMAN HATE ... A.  
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS!II  Help I need 2 Penn State GA tix.lt can  Victoria Principal? I can leave anytime.  PRELAW SOCIETY  DRAGONS B. WAL TEA MONDALE C.  
ECOECOECO Environmental Concern• Organization Meeting 7:00 Wednesday Flanner Pen­thouse ................................................................ ATIENTION AIESEC MEMBERS Meeting on Oct. 11th at 7:00 pm Haggar College Canter Room 303 (SMC)  COME & EXPERIENCE ONE of the AREA'S MOST EXCITING FOOD&DRINK ESTABLISHMENTS H.l.'s Old Town Saloon, 213 Front St., Niles, Mich., is now accepting applica· tiona lor Wait stall, Bartender, Hosteeoes, Doormen, & Bus Stall. Only experienced need apply. 684· 7n4 RIDE: from PITISBURGH to NO after break. PLEASE help!call3149or 4678 Wanted: Allo sax. Call John at 2n-4574.  help please contact Ann Marie 284-4381. ..................................................... NEED 1 AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET CAllx1103 NEED lSU TICKETSIII We need them. We want them. We love them. Call Vince at 2538 or James at 2530. NEED AIR FORCE TIX CALL MATI x1178 ~;;;·s·:~;;i;;;;;·G":.4:·;;i~;;;;;·;;ii·~-~i  Call Nance at 284·5439. Remember ... THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE WORLD When you were mina you used to let me we.tr all your clothes -Prince  CUBS FANS: TASTE ITIII TO THE CUB81ES: YOU CHOKEDIII OH GOD, DO I NEED LSU TICKETS! Oh yes, I do! Oh, do I need theml Oh yes! Yes! I need them! Uke you wouldn't believe! Oh! Yes! LSU tickets! Oh yes! Ohl Oh! Aaaaaaahhhhh!!! Please call Steve at 2658.  THE ERG D. VARSITY MONOGRAMS E. All OF THE ABOVE NOTRE DAME OARSMAN LOVE ... A. PLASTIC DADDY B. RONALD REAGAN C. INDIANA WEATHER D. FEMALE COXSWAINS E. All OF THE ABOVE NOTRE DAME OARSMAN SPEND THIER VACATIONS... A. IN FT. LAUDERDALE B. TOURING EUROPE C. VISITING RELATIVES D. SCORING "SILVER BULLETS" AND ROWING TO  
2n-o911  Need rlct. to vicinity of Buffalo (St..  Ilona,...mualc at N.D.. I The lang!M,a  WACO  
LOST/FOUND LOST ON TWO SEPARATE OCCA· SIONS 3 IRACELIETS-2 PEARL, 1 GOLD and 1 GOLD IIAACELET DURING THE WEEKEND OF  Boston area families seek quality childcare in exchange lor roorn, board, and a competitive salary. Please contact Kate Goldfield at 617 -332·6056 or Beth Ingram at 617-8n-n39 or write to The Family Exchange. Inc .• 25lakevi-Ave., Newton, MA. 02160.  6 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE·BEST OFFERS 1528, ERIC HELP! NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PENN ... CALL SUE 3843 Want to exchange my 4 student tickets to S.Car. & Penn lor 4 GA's to each game. Ph.272-7412.  Bonaventune Unlv..lty) for ar.k. Will ah.,. -~· Calllllkeat 24fCI.. Need ride to Warren· Youngstown,Ohio area lor Oct.Break. Will share ex· penoes.Pieasa call Elaine 4117(SMC)  hot all-beautiful-and-all-bad band, playa St.pan Center Suriday Oct. 14.. Opened for Flock of Saagulla, Iaiit Ill­bum got 3.5 11tara In Rolling Slone, • -on IITV and h~ on radio ­II-acr0811 the US of A-"'A H•o Tak• a Fall"II c-move your faat and ullvata, guya.. Glrla keep your boya In lfrwf  ..................... WHEN THE CHIPS ARE DOWN AND YOUR LIFE'S A CONSTANT CRAB, YOU ... A. PRAY B. BECOME ANAl· COHOLIC C. LET GO OF YOUR OAR D. SEEK OUT BRIAN HAGANS WIS· DOM N.D. CREW OUESTIONAIRE CONTIN­UED. WHEN YOU GRADUATE, YOU  
SEPT.22.1F FOUND 1759.REWARD  PLEASE  CALL  ...................... need 2 ridel to Washington D.C. area Oo­ MY  FATHER  IS  DYING  to  see  the  WISH TO.. A. BE HIRED BY A BIG EIGHT FIRM B. GO DANCING WITH  
tober break Doug 3334 or Mitch 1305  S.Carolina game but only has tickets to  JOE"DANCING"BRUNEnl  C.  
help all all help Ill lly Mickey llouM Wlltch ._ run -y.. I think that I*'· hapa 1w I• lurtdng about O'Shag ~lngforthevalu•of aiiiMnll adu· cation. tt.lp Mickey find hi• wyhome.. I mluhim. Cell Anrw Marl• x4244. lost in Milwaukee ... one innocent bop­per. Cyndi, where are you? Kathy do you really bop?? Or are you still underage? Kathy Balane, the Bop Queen of Fa11ey Hall turns 20 and we know SHE Bop ! (And you called me a dyke) Happy Birthdey Kathy and hope that you don't go blind! Peace and Love, Bopper. H..p Crl~l A Q;~q~..~~;; cap was "borrowed" lrom a redhead at an  ··························· RIDE NEEDED FOR CLEVELAND lor Oct Break.leave Fri 10/19 & ratum Sun 10/28.Will share usuai.PLEASE call Janet SMC-5242. ..................... Need ride to Chicago suburbs this Fri! Will pay.Piease ca114327(SMC) ....................... Need Ride to Jeii.City or KC area lor tall break. Will share costs. Call Kris at SMC· 5061. ········•····•·• ·····•····················· Ride needed to Williamsburg, VA lor Fall Break. Please call Stephanie at 2n­5620. Thank You!!!! NEED HELP FOR TELEPHONE SALES NO EXPERINCE REQUIRED APPLY IN PERSON &-7 2015 WESTERN AVE. SIUTE 124 SOUTH BEND  I HAVE AIR FORCE STUD£NT TIX. I Will TRADE FOR S. CAROLINA TIX (277·7570) PLEASE HELPI NEED 2 STUDENT AIR FORCE T1X.CALL284-5520 HELP! NEED AIR FORCE GA'S! CALL SMC-5520 2 Air Force stud. tickets lor sale. Call232· 4525 or 283-2no. $$$$$$$$$$$ I AM DESPERATE I .,.,.,q 3 South Carolina GA's togath•!!! Willing to buy or barter; I have 3 singles tor the same game ... Call Andy after 7 at 272·2873  Air Force.Lets trade!EIIen 284-4379 Thao Majora and oth.. 1~: Tonight lit 10:00 pm In 341 O'lhBit""Fr. 11om_. will apa11k on and dlecu• mya11clam. Go King ... Beat GRE!! Once a freshmen, always a freshman. Right Potter? This is a personal that says something nice about Mary Keating: she is a goddess. However nothing nice can be said about that hole Neenah, Wisconsin. John Heasley, the man with his linger in his ear.  The Flu are comlngll The Flu are coming!I Emotion is a virtue, For you it is the one fatal flaw. The langlaa larry, come out to play! lock up your dog, and you are meat on a stick! We're talking corn dog action. Signed, Kelly and Beth ·························· PARTY WITH THE STRICKLAND .... All NIGHT LONG!!! HAPPY 21st, GARY!!! WATCH OUT, CAUSE IT'S WABBIT SEASON!!! SENIOR CLASS PARTYIIIII H.l.'a Old Town· Nllaa, Ill 8:30 .. ???????? Frtclay121h  BECOME A FIGHTER PILOT D. MOVE TO BOSTON AND DEDICATE YOUR liFE TO CREW Q. BLARB!?! A. TRUE B. FALSE C. ALL OF THE ABOVE a· ma petite cherie in Murphy's MARKET­ING MGT dass: -·the way you wiggle is turning me on!!! I'm going to flunk the mid­term ~ you don't stop it. BUT, PLEASE DON'T STOP IT!!!! ND/SIIC Council lor the ~dad neada VOLUNTEERS for a DANCE lit LOGAN CENTER on FRIDAY from 7:30 to 10 pm. Give for the kids. ·························· VARSITY HOCKEY RETURNS IN THREE WEEKS! support your local hockey team  
O.C. party last Friday. Girts, please return the hat, pronto! No queationa asked.  Riders needed to and from Cleveland for  I NEED 2 air Ioree GA'S CALL JIM 3834  THE PETE AND RAY SERIALS Congrats Ray on making the team, but  
Great sentimental value! 106 Dillon. 1582. ······················· LOST. ONE AUTO ANTENNA SAT AT SENIOR BAR. THANKS?  Break. Call Paul, 4284 NEED RIDE TO BOST.10/19&BACK.$$­·3691 TOM  NEED 3 air Ioree TIX GA's or STUDS JOHN 1219 ............................. For Sale: 2 OA·a for the South Carolina  don't let that make you tnink you are human. Pete, it is really not your fault that you are from Wisconsin.  What has been unleashed between the Saductraaa and eov-nt? Is it? Could it be? Oh no! It's PASSION!. Zeus Bewildered.  USC TRIP MEETING FOR All INTER­ESTED. 9 UTILE THEATRE LAFORTUNE TONITE. PROBLEMS: MAX 287-3138  
L.os:r; ·ai:ioiNN CLUTci-i PuFisii...iN LAFORTUNE ON FRIDAY OCT.6. PLEASE CONTACT TRISH AT 232-Q467 IF FOUND ... PLEASE! REWARD. LOST: TWO GOLF UMBRELLAS AT THE STADIUM. ONE IS RED AND WHITE, AND THE OTHER IS BLACK AND WHITE AND SAYS "BILL KIDD" ON IT. IF FOUND PlEASE CALL 3578 -THANK$­3 LOST: A COACH'S MIND BETWEEN  NEED AIDE TO DENVER/GREELEY FOR OCT BRK BONNIE 4189 SOUTH JERSEY RIDERS NEEDED for Oct Break call John at 234·9346 NEED RIDE to Hrsbrg or Phila. PA THIS WEEKEND ! Will pay $$. Please HELP !I Call MIKE 2384 ······································ Ride to No. NJ over Oct. Break. Would like to leave after the game Call Janet at 284· 4340 Need a Ride to St. Louis lor Fall Break. Call Pat 284-4697  Game. Call llallnclilat 37115 2 G.A.'S NEEDED FOR AIR FORCE. CALL RON 3528. ATTENTION! Need one PENN STATE GA or Student ticket. Buy or trade. Call Brian 1930. NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL JIM 3487THANKS  Did you know that B. P. had a SYR Fridey? Old you know that it was a "Barn Dance?" Isn't that fitting? LITTLE TOMMY TORTER says, "Screw everybody, before they get you first." UTILE TOMMY TORTER .......... ... LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS!! SUNDAY OCT. 14, 4 p.m. laFor1une lobbyBETHERE!!roundtrip68.00. watch mail for further details.  Look lor Moon the Love Coni'IKtion. ................................................. I NEED A RIDE TO MONTREAL FOR THE MIDTERM VACATION CAN SHARE EXPENSES PLEASE CALL MARTIN 233·1314 METRO!!!!METRO!!!!METRO!I!I The N-York Metro Club will be holding sign­ups lor the October break bus Thursday, Oct. 11, at 7:00 pm in lalor1une (second floor). The bus will leave after the game on Sat. Oct. 20. Prices: Por1 Authority·$80, White Plains·$85. Be there early--FIRST COME-FIRST SERVED'  Wiliams, Krieten: found unconscious in al· cohol after herB-Day Party, Oct. 8, 1984. Our dear roommate, friend and drinking buddy. In (semi-comates) state October t 0 and 11. Services this weekend (BYOB). Donations to Kegs lor Kristen preferred. Happy Birthdey D.J. Love, Ted's Granddeughter Okay, Jude, make sure your contacs don't hurt so I know you're listening. Can we talk?This is big time important, this is life! They say that these are not the best of times-oh.no? After all those bul­ 
CINCINNATI  AND  SOUTH  BEND.  IF  Two STUDENT Tixs lor Air Force game  falos(go,Bellows).  vodka  shots(Fire  
FOUND PlEASE RETURN TO MOEL­ for sale. Make otter 2n-3170  COKE IS IT  drills), mexican games(lt's not that we  
LER  HIGH  SCHOOl,  CINCINNATI,  BOSTON  CLUB  BUS  OCTOBER  need  liquor,  we  just  like  it),  movie  
OHIO  FOR SALE: 4 AIR FORCE GA'S (together  COKE IS IT  BREAK  BUS  SIGNUPS  ON  quotes(sometimes you  just gotta say),  
Lost: A black and white bead necklace,  FOR SALE  on the 30yd. line) best otter call2333  COKE IS IT  THURSDAY OCTOBER 11,AT7:30PM IN LAFORTUNE ON FIRST FLOOR.  long walks( down in the valley), stories(the dey the zoo fell),  
Sat nile. Sentimental value. Call Ruth  Have 4 AF GA's together to sell together.  PRICE IS $110 ROUND TRIP. BUS  Wabash&Domers(oh,mother,is it wOrth  
2673. Thanks.  233·2698  LEAVES AT 6:30PM ON SATURDAY  it?), yellow roses & rainbows: Happy  
AFTER THE SOUTH CAROLINA GAME.  Birthdey, you hopeful romantic! "So they  
LOST:  MAN'S  GOLD  SEIKO WATCH  REAL  NATIONS  DON'T  FREEZE  Need 2 Air Force Student nx call Phil  went ott together. But wherever they go,  
WITH GOLD AND SILVER BAND OVER  NUKES; An election primer lor all voters.  1529  I NEED A RIDE TO ST.  LOUIS FOR  THRASH,  SPLASH  AND BE  MERRY!  and whatever happens to them on the  
THE WEEKEND. IF FOUND OR HAVE  Send $3.75 & $1.45 p&h toN-Features  BREAK.  CAN  LEAVE  RIGHT  AFTER  Super "SPUD"nick is having a Birthday.  way, in that enchanted place on top of the  
ANY INFO AS TO ITS WHEREABOUTS,  Syndicate, 6000 E Girard, 1195, Denver,  2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE. MIKE  THE GAME AND WILL PAY THE USUAL  Happy 18th Birthday Janet. We love you  Forest, a little boy and his bear Will always  
CALL DAVE AT 3049. REWARD!!  C080231.  3336.  CALL MAUREEN AT 1333.  Bud! Jeanne and Kim.  be playing."  


-

Sports Briefs 
The Co-Ree basketball entry deadline is today. Rosters consisting offive men and five women should be submitted to the NVA office with a J 10 entry fee. All men on a team must live in the same hall, but women may participate on an "at large" basis.-The Observer 
The Co-Ree volleyball entry deadline is today. Rosters of eight to 12 men and women should be submitted to the NVA office. Six players -three men and three women -may partici­pate at one time in the best-of-five matches. -The Observer 
A singles racquetball tourney is being sponsored by NVA. Entries may be made at the NVA office today. ­The Observer 
A singles handball tourneyis being sponsored by NVA. For more information and entry forms, stop by the NVA office today. -The Observer 
The SMC basketball teamwmbemeetingat4:15 
p.m. today in the Angela Athletic Facility Lounge. Anyone interested may attend. Tryouts for the team will be tomorrow from 4:30p.m. to 6:30p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting at 7 
p.m. tonight in Lafortune. Members should bring insurance num­bers. -The Observer 
The ND field hockey team lost on the road last night at the University of Toledo, 5-3. Molly McCabe, Christina Weinmann and Corinne DiGiacomo scored the Irish goals. Notre Dame will play host to Western Illinois on Friday afternoon. -The 
Obsen1er 
The SMC tennis team defeated the University of Illinois/Chicago last night in Chicago, 5-3. Details ofthe match will be in tomorrow's Observer. The Belles' next match is at home next Tuesday, October 16 against Manchester College.-The Observer 
The ND women's cross-country team ran against a competitive field of teams from five states last weekend at the Anderson Invitational. The top three Irish finishers were julia Merkel (eighth place), Susan Wanchow and Ginny Blissert. Notre Dame will play host to St. joseph's College of Rensselaer today at 5 
p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course.-The Observer 
NCAA Volunteers for Youth is inviting all ath­letes interested in forming a one-on-one friendship with an area youth to join the program. Interested athletes should call Patti Gal­lagher at 283-2999, Tammy Schmidt at 283-4001 or Dave Clark at 283-1665 by Saturday. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame ski team will be meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theatre. Anyone inter­ested may attend. For more information, call 283-4354. -The Observer 
The ND Women's GolfClubwillbemeetingfor the last time this season at 6:45 tomorrow at Corby Hall. All mem­bers must attend. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will be meeting at I p.m. Sunday on Cartier Field for team pictures and a scrimmage. -The Observer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will be meeting tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theatre. Anyone inter­ested may attend. -The Observer 
The SMC volleyball team split two matches last night. The Belles beat St. Francis, 15-4, 15-7, before losing a confer­ence match to Goshen College, 15-4, 13-15, 1 5-9. Saint Mary's, which now has an 11-5 record, will play at Bethel College tomorrow along with Trinity Christian College. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly.-The Observer 
The Broadway Theatre League Presents 
On tour from New York 
Louis Jourdan Betsy Palmer 
and 

Taina Elg 
•

Jn LERNER & LOEWE'S 
FRI. & SAT., OCT. 26 & 27-8 P.M. E.s.T. 
Matinee, Oct. 27,2 p.m. 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
Eveninga: ~$19.50$14.50$10.50 SOLD OUT 

Special Diacount Matinee Only-Student. & Senior Citizen• $5.00 Off Liated Ticket Price. 
Box office open daily (except Sunday) lOam to 5pm Telephone (219) 284-9190 ':::::..,, MuterCarcl & Vi111 Accepted • Group Di~~eounta 
Wednesday, October 10, 1984-page 9 
Please 
I 
support the AMERICAN 
CRCANCER 
'SOCIETY~ 
This SP<'Ce contn~"'Jd as a public serv1ce. 
Detroit wins Game One 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -The Detroit Tigers won a battle of baseball's old and new last night, using a two-run homer from Larry Herndon and clutch pitching from jack Morris to beat the San Diego Padres, 3-2, in the first game of the 1984 World Series. 
The tense game that went beyond three hours was marked by ques­tionable base running and managerial decisions by the Padres, who were playing in the World Se­ries for the first time in their 16-year history. 
The Tigers, who appeared in their first World Series in 1907, trailed 2-1 when Herndon hit a two-run homer in the fifth inning off Mark Thur­mond. The Padres' left-bander had struggled all night, while relievers Dave Dravecky and Andy Hawkins looked on, ready to work. 
Thurmond threw 117 pitches in five innings before being relieved by Hawkins, who pitched two and two thirds innings of one-hit, shutout relief. and Dravecky, who went the rest of the way without giving up a hit. 
Items 
continuedfrom page 12 
bouncing back from that loss to capture a Liberty Bowl win, but the Irish had one month to recuperate. This team only has until Saturday to find out about itself. Ifthis Irish team has character, it will bounce back against Air Force much like its predecessor did against Boston Col­lege. Ifnot, Irish fans may have tout­ter a line familiar to Cub fans: "Wait 'til next year." 
Pick ofthe Week. .. The regular­season volleyball championship of the North Star Conference could be on the line tonight In the south dome of the ACC when Art Lam­bert's Irish players entertain the Loyola Ramblers at 7 p.m. 
Both teams are undefeated in con­ference play, and Loyola has an im­pressive 1I -game winning streak against conference foes. Many a win­ning streak has been stopped in the arena by Irish basketball teams, but now the volleyball team ha.-; a chance to play "Streakbusters." Come out and see if it happens tonight! 

NURSING MAJORS INTENSIVELY CARE FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
$1.00 off any pizza.
$1.00 
One coupon per pizza. 
Off 
Fast, Free Dellvery'u Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. . ·-~South Bend Phone:277-2151 · Expires in one week. 
JlC NA 12712650 

8 
: • e 1984 Oom1no·s PllZa, Inc 
•

The Broadway Theatre League 
~~~==~====~~ 
P.O. Box 866 
South Bend, IN 46624 
The Observer Wednesday, October 10, 1984-page 10
-
Irish drop out 

oil
Texas stays on top of football 
Assoclated Press 
Texas and Oklahoma missed by just II points having a rare squareoff of the nation's two top-ranked col­lege football teams. 
Texas held onto its No. I ranking yesterday in The Associated Press poll, while Oklahoma, the Lon­ghorns' opponent next Saturday, climbed from fifth place to third. 
Washington took advantage of Ohio State's 28-23 loss to Purdue and replaced the Buckeyes as No. 2, while Purdue, South Carolina and Kentucky made the Top Twenty after absences of several years. 
Texas, a 38-I3 winner over Rice, 
received 55 of 59 first-place votes 
and I,I70 of a possible 1,180 points 
from a nationwide panel of sports 
writers and sportscasters. 
While Ohio State dropped from 
second to eighth, Washington, No. 3 
a week ago, moved up one spot with 
one first-place ballot and 1,049 
points after a 19-7 triumph over 
Oregon State. 
Oklahoma was idle last weekend but jumped from fifth to third with one first-place vote and 1,038 points. The other two first-place bal­lots went to Boston College, which was idle for the second week in a row and received 1,026 points to remain No. 4. The Eagles return to action this weekend against Temple. 
Asked if the Texas-Oklahoma 
game would match the nation's two 
best teams, Texas coach Fred Akers 
replied: "I don't know. I'd say we're 
two of the best. This game is consid­
ered by most to be the No. 1 college 
football game in the country today." 
Brigham Young moved up from 
seventh to fifth with 932 points with a 52-6 rout ofColorado State and Ne­braska, a 17-3 winner over Okla­homa State, rose from eighth to sixth with 869 points while the Cowboys fell from ninth to 13th. 
Southern Methodist also was off last weekend and the Mustangs received 807 points to advance from lOth place to seventh. Eighth-place Ohio State received 690 points, while Florida State dropped from sixth to ninth with 646 points after a 17-17 tie with Memphis State. Miami rounded out the Top Ten, vaulting from 14th to lOth with 605 points by defeating Notre Dame 31-13 and knocking the Irish out of the rankings. 
The Second Ten consists of Penn State, LSU, oklahoma State, Purdue, Georgia, Auburn, South Carolina, Florida, Kentucky and Georgia Tech. 
Last week, it was Penn State, Geor­gia Tech, Michigan, Miami, LSU, Notre Dame, UCLA, Auburn, Vander­bilt and Georgia. 
Purdue, 4-1, last appeared in the Top Twenty in I980. South Carolina, which trounced Kansas State, 49-I7, to go 4-0, also made the rankings for the first time since 
1980. 
Kentucky, also 4-0 after a 27-I4 victory over Rutgers, had not been in the Top Twenty since 1978. And Florida, No. 17 in the. I984 preseason poll, returned for the first time since then by blanking Syracuse, 16-0. 
Michigan dropped out by losing to Michigan State I9-7, UCLA disap­peared after a 23-2IIoss to Stanford and Vanderbilt, which made the rankings last week for the first time since 1958, fell out after bowing to Tulane, 27-23. 


Associates of the Sisters of the Holy Cross Lay Volunteer Program Informational MeGting Wednesday October 10 6:30-7:30 
Social Min1stnes Center Room 11 Holy Cross Hall Saint Mary's College 



Wednesday 16", 1 item 
$6.95 
Call before 11 
EXPIRES fO/f0/84 
Sunday 16", 1 item 
$6.95 
Call before 9:30 EXPIRES 10/1.4/8.4 
Golf 
continuedjrompage 12 
76, and Rich Connelly shot a 78 for a 
total of 382. 
The second-place ·Notre Dame 
team scored a 386. The team 
featured Blake Garside, Tim Hanlon, 
Tom Ryan, Joe Hills and Mike Cul­
ver. 
Last year's winner, Central Col­lege of Iowa, finished the best ·among the remaining twelve teams but could only shoot a 390 for third place. 
Bona and Huffman finished in a tie for third in the individual medal standings, just four off the pace of medalist Scott Hodoval, who shot a 71 for Hillsdale College. Brian Goldsworthy from Central College oflowa came in second with a 73. 
The golfseason will resume in the spring, and ifthe Notre Dame golfers can mantain their winning ways they could be looking at a possible berth in the NCAA Tournament. 
. ----··-------------------l
f 
Perfect For Tailgaters • 
PARTYSUBS 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses & Choice of Toppings_ 
3 feet serves 20·25 ... $35.00 4 feet serves 25·30 ... $43.00 5 feet serves 30·35 ... $52.00 6 feet serves 35-40 ... $60.00 
ALSO: MEAT TRAYS. CHEESE TRAYS &SALADS 
the 
DELI 
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78 
L-----------:~~~~~~----------~ 

p 
APTopTweoty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in Tbe Asso­dated Press poll, wilh first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 
20·19·18-17 etc. Notre Dame oppom~nts arc  
ltallcb:ed.  
I. Texas (55)  3:0-1  1.170  
2. Washington (I)  5·0·0  1.049  
3. Oklahoma ( I )  4·0·0  1.038  
4. Boston College ( 2)  3·0.0  1,026  
5. Brigham Young  5·0·0  932  
6. Nebr.osk.a  4·1·0  869  
7. So. Methodist  3·0.0  807  
8. Ohio State  4·1·0  690  
9. Florida State  4-0.1  646  
10. Miami  5·2·0  605  
11. Penn State  4-1·0  566  
12.1.SU  3·0·1  557  
13. Oklahoma State  4·1·0  469  
14. Purdue  4-1·0  360  
15. Georgia  3·1·0  317  
16. Auburn  3·2·0  278  
17. Soulb Corollna  4-0·0  264  
18. Florida  3.J.I  167  
19. Kentucky  4-0·0  156  
20. Georgia Tech  3·1·0  101  

Need LSU Tix 
Ca II collect eves. 504·291·0642 

Mcalo. -...!and light equipment, comple .. oullll. fo< oale. &ceU.ntlncome doing ......_on......... Portoelomall "'-­
.......,._1!1. S9000, NEGO, ....,.._aUPA 
-......... conlrola. hug. ..cOrd library, ud prt.econdl-71 Ford van. Send 1o< __,_lllolalc/o22W_.HighStnet, 
IN46151. 

T0 day____________________
w_e_d_n_es_d_a_y_,_o_c_to_b_e_r_I_o_,_l_9_s_4__P._a_.g;;;.e_ll 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•12-4 
p.m. -Law School Caravan, featuring over 40 Law Schools, Stepan Center, sponsored by the Pre-Law Society and the Career and Placement Of­fice. 

•3:30 
p.m.-Computer minicourse, Macintosh, second session, Room I 04 CCMB, Free. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "A Review of Glueball Candidates," Dr. Suh Urk Chung, Brook­haven National Laboratories, Room I 18 NSH, 

•6: 
15 p.m. -Meeting, Circle K, Center for Social Concerns. . 

•6:30
p.m.-Meeting, Toastmaster's International, Room 223 Hayes-Healy. 


··7 & lOp.m.-Film, "The Godfather," sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1. 50, Engineering Auditorium. 
• 
7 p.m. -Film, "The Blue Dahlia," ednesday Night Film Series, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7 
p.m. -Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. Loyola, Chicago, (North Star Conference Game), ACC Arena. 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, C.l.L.A. Education Committee, Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
7 p.m. -Meeting, Article Presentation: Recycling, sponsored by Environmental Concerns Organiza­tion, Flanner Penthouse. 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, Windsurfing Club, LaFortune Student Center. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Meeting, Fellowship ofChristian Ath­letes, library Lounge. 

•8 
p.m. -Speech, Richard Allen, former National Security Advisor for President Reagan, "American Foreign Policy in the 1980's," Library Auditorium, sponsored by the Student Activities Board. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Sandy Skoglund, photographer, Room 200 Art Building, sponsored by the Depart­ment of Art, Art History and Design and the Snite Museum ofArt. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  22  Movie-Sentimental journey  
28  Dynasty  
34  The Brain  
9:00p.m.  28  Hotel  
34  Smithsonian World  
10:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Watch Me Now  
10:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Magnum PI/Movie ­Transplant  
28  ABC News Nlghtline  
34  Movie · Sylvia Scarlet  
ll:OOp.m.  28  Love Connection  
34  Movie · Penny Serenade  
11:30p.m.  16  Late Night With David Letterman  


S()lq?,y 70/IUP  OH, I tJNCJI3R­ MICHAti., I'/J  SO YOU  
Y()J /IJ4mN6 SO  STANO, MRS.  LIKE YOIJ 70  IAVWT 7lJ  
lON6, MIOIAEL.  CONGoa-J. IT  MEET 01/1<  8E AN  
ITS 8E£N ewe  WASN'TANY  Pf?liSIPENT;  AOMAN,  
_OF 7JIOS8 PA~. 1  PR.fJBi.CM.  8fJl..()J{IS.  

Bloom County 

Psycho Chicken Octavio 
I MeAN, I CJW7' BeC9?JJIIN. fF 
SO YOU
caJ?:!ie, 8lJTIT5l3&M8J IAIORTH ttJ4NTTOBC Y5,SIR. I1JOKIN6 IN7lJ, '1(1} KNOW, 7lJ SE/3 ANAOMAN, WITH A 
IF IT /,(/()I!J(E[) aJT, IF IT ffl-T 
!3H, SON? V&N6t.4NCI3. 
~GHTANO.. I .. UH.. I . 


The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Hey, I feel someone moving! Dang, this place gives me the willies." 
43 Noblemen 52 Nettles 44 Supplicant 53 Mine entrance 
The Daily Crossword 
45 Ancient Arab 54 Hawaiian state poet bird 
ACROSS 1 Sign of a saint 5 Thunder units 10 Maul 13 Eager 14 Bldrltch 15 Mata­16 Wager earner 18 Unlocked 19 Main dishes 20 Kind of tire 22 Before: pre!. 24 Almost 25 Greatest 29 Wreath, old style 31 Perch 32 Wire nalls 33 Baseball's Mel 36 Loudness unit  46 Annoy 55 Waste 48 Mountain ridge allowance 50 Heavy volume 58 "-Is the time" 37 Animal 62 Legal matter 12 Loquaciouscondition 63 More recent 15 Dike, Irene and Tuesday's Solution 38 Concerning 64 Printing dlrec-Eunomla 39 Corroded tlon 17 Leaven 40 Bus 21 Spreads hay C A L M M A D AIM B E A D passengers DOWN A L I E A L I B I A X L E 41 Dress fussily 1 Harness part 23 Sincere 42 Pines 2 Eng. river 25-Major E S T E L L E R A T T A N 44-upon 3 Ravellngs 26 Blow a horn DEY PUR 1-­(blackmailed) 4 Nelsse 27 Phrase re CABLES MAL ACIC AS45 Have at tributary power of wealth H E L E N T 0 N E R .A L I 47 Scarlett's home 5 Mortar stuff 49 "To catch the 6 Fewest 28 Chemical sufl. USED .PRIXM 0 All A R E E L B 0 AS T-way" 7 Noah's craft 30 Henpecks S P RIO C K E T P R E T T Y 51 Aglow 8 Quay 32 Farm structure 56 Statuesque 34 Tolu or tupelo I-BRAD HOI 57 Currency 9 Lover's music 35 Care for S C R E E N E N T H U S E transmitter 10 The folding 37 Nimrods 59 Inquires .stuff 38 Choler '""'I''" I CiDLASA N N 0 A W A S H 0 N A N 60 Ham It up 11 Of a 40 Physiognomy T E E N S 0 T T 0 F A R E ©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 1011018461 Cattle long ago neighborhood 41 Sp. museum All Rights Reserved  
TONIGHT AND  N.D.S.A.B. presents •..  
TOMORROW NIGHT  RICHARD ALLEN  
7:00 and 10:00  Former National Security Advisor for President Reagan  
Engineering Auditorium  'American Foreign Policy in the 1980's' Wednesday, October lOth  
$1.50  8:00p.m., Library Auditorium Keception to follow  

-------~­
Wednesday, October 10, 1984-page 12

S~orts 
Keeilan hands Dillon Hall its first loss in last four years 

By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
A noteworthy event took place this weekend in interhall football competition as Keenan Hall, which had not won a game this year, pulled off a monumental upset of previ­ously unbeaten Dillon, 7-6. 
Few people, besides the players and the refs, ventured outside in the driving rainstorm to see Keenan become the first team to beat Dillon in four years. Keenan, in fact, is the first team even to score a point on the Dillon defense in three years. 
Although the field conditions were not as bad as might have been expected, the ball was wet, and the offenses for both teams had trouble starting up. However, in the second quarter Keenan managed to pene­trate deep. into Dillon territory, and 
Jamie Burke dove over from two yards for a touchdown. He then l'>ooted the point-after for what proved to be the winning margin. 
Dillon refused to go down with­out a fight as they began the second half by marching for a score of their own. Tight end Dan McMahon caught a touchdown pass from Bren­dan Coughlin to bring Dillon within one. 
Backup quarterback Scott Grooms willassume a starting role In The Big Red decided to go for the Notre Dame's offense Saturday against Air Force. Grooms will two-point conversion to grab the replace Injured signal-caller Steve Beuerleln In tbe Irish lineup. lead, but Keenan defenders Joe Col­Chuck Freeby discusses the football team's situation in his column lins and Rick Bliha forced the Dillon 
below. running back out of bounds before he could reach the endzone. The Dillon players saw another 
big chance disappear when they failed to get a first dQwn after a Keenan fumble gave them the ball in 
ND golf team grabs victory 
in annual fall tournament. 
good field position. Dillon's final 
By MARK STADTMUELLER 
Sports Writer 
On a wet and dreary Monday af­ternoon the Notre Dame golf team won its own 12th Annual Fall Invita­tional Golf Tournament at the Burke Memorial Golf Cour~e. 
This concluded a 33-4 fall season which Coach Noel O'Sullivan des­cribed as the best in his twelve years as Notre Dame coach. 
The Notre Dame victory was char­acterized by a total team effort as two Irish teams were fielded. Notre Dame's gold team finished first, and the blue team finished in second place. 

The victorious Irish team was led by Captain John O'Donovan, who showed great character by posting a 78 after overcoming a bad front nine and a torrential rain during his back nine. 
The rest of the team also faired well as Chris Bona and Lon Huffman each shot 75, John Anthony shot a 
see GOLF, page 10 

threat died when a twenty-yard pass completion late in the game was nul­lified by a holding call. 
The loss brings Dillon's record to 2-I, and the Big Red now is in a three-way tie with Flanner and Mor­rissey for the Parseghian division lead. 
In other games, Flanner's offense continued to roll as they ripped Off­Campus 20-0. Quarterback Tim Ar­nold scored two touchdowns and running backs Joe Arnold and Larry Diedrick consistently gained big yardage running behind the Flanner offensive line. 
Morrissey rebounded from last week's defeat as it beat Grace 13-0. Quarterback Geoff Henry scored a third quarter touchdown and tight end Steve Beerman caught a fifteen­yard scoring toss in the fourth quar­ter to sew up the game. 
Stanford jumped to the front of the Leahy division with a 14-0 vic­tory over Holy Cross. Quarterback Brent Basham sneaked over for a second-quarter touchdown, and Chris Fox dashed five yards for the final score. Stanford's record goes to 2-0-I, while Holy Cross falls to 1-1. 
Zahm also nailed down its second win of the year by edging Alumni 7­
6. Steve Dombrowski lifted Zahm to victory with a fifteen y.ard touch­down reception with less than two minutes to play in the game. Zahm, which earlier had blocked Alu~JJni's extra-point attempt, was able to con­vert on its own PAT and raise its record to 2-1. Alumni now owns a 
1-1-1 slate. 
In the Rockne division, Howard came back to defeat Carroll, 14-6, and move into second place. Trail­ing 6-0 in the first half, Howard took the lead on an Andy Jolin five-yard reception and later added an insur­ance touchdown with a three-yard run by Pat Clark. Howard is now 1-0­1; and Carroll sliped to I-2. 
St. Ed's remained in the playoff picture with a I 0-0 win over Pangborn. St. Ed's took advantage of a blocked punt near the end of the first half for its first score, a twenty· two yard field goal by Rob Kill. Pangborn had St. Ed's stopped, but a face mask penalty on the last play of the half gave St. Ed's its final chance before the intermission. In the second half, St. Ed's defense prevented Pangborn from mounting a serious threat while its offense added a late score on a ten-yard pass to Matt Kairis. St. Ed's record is now 
I -1, while Pangborn remains winless at 0-2-I: 
Next Sunday's games include Flanner vs Morrissey at I p.m. in a crucial battle for a playoff spot in the Parseghian division. Also, Grace challenges Keenan at 4 p.m. and Dil­lon tries to rebound against Off­Campus at 3 p.m. 
In the Leahy division, Cavanaugh takes on first place Stanford at 2 p.m. while Alumni battles Holy Cross at I p.m. 
At 3 p.m., undefeated Sorin goes against Pangborn and Howard at­tempts to upend St. Ed's at 2 p.m. in the Rockne division. 

Irish looking for upset 
ByERICSCHEUE~ 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team, conting off a strong week of play, will try to stay undefeated in the North Star Conference tonight when it meets much-heralded Loyola at 7 
p.m. in the ACC Arena. 
Both the Irish and the Ramblers have perfect records in the confer­ence, so the game tonight is an im­portant one in the fight for tile conference championship. 
The Irish stand at 7-7, and they posted a 3-1 record in games last week. However, they will be tested tonight when they face a very strong Loyola team. 
"Loyola is the best team in the conference," says Irish coach Art Lambert. "They won the conference last year, and are looking to repeat." 
Stong, consistent volleyball will be needed to beat the experienced Ramblers. The Irish have been playing well lately, and Lambert seems pleased with the way things are going. 
"We sure could do with some more wins," he adntits, "but there's no question I've seen a lot of im­provement. I've seen improvement in all the girls." 
Even though their record stand<> at only .500, the Irish can take a big step toward a successful season with a win tonight. The team's main goal this season has been to win the con­ference championship. An upset tonight against the Ramblers can put the Irish ahead in the race for first place. 

Notre Dame must bounce· back from loss to Miami 
Hello again, everybody! 

Ifyou are either a Cub fan or an Irish fan or by some awful coincidence a fan of both teams, you have first­hand knowledge ofwhat disappointment feels like. You have had your expectations raised, only to get your heart broken. You have raised your fork to your mouth expecting T-bone steak and you wound up with a mouthful of tofu vegetables. · 
Yes, losing hurts, and don't believe anybody who says it doesn't. It hurts the fans, it hurts the players, and it hurts the coaches. Looking at Gerry Faust after the game, one saw a man who put a smile on his face that resembled a grimace. He faced the reporters and gra­ciously answered all their questions, but it wasn't easy. It never is after a loss. 
Call it "Lost Weekend," call it a disaster, call it anyth­ing you want. Don't call it fun, though, because It cer­tainly was not that. It was not any fun for fans standing in the rain who could only look on helplessly. It was not any fun for the players and coaches who had to suffer another defeat to a "low-class" Hurrican e team. It was not fun at all. 
The true test for Notre Dame, however, did not come last week against Miami, but comes this week against Air Force. Miami has knocked Notre Dame to the canvas. Now the question is can the Irish get up in time for Air Force? It is a test ofcharacter for Faust and his players. 
Notre Dame has every reason to stay on the canvas, take the count and leave the ring. It is a squad decimated by Injuries to key people. No less than seven starters will be on the bench for Saturday's game with 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

an assortment of ailments, with Steve Beuerlein being the latest addition to that group with a bruised right · shoulder. The injuries are tough, and they certainly hurt the team. However, it would be a cop-out to use them as 
an excuse. 

Instead, the Irish have to respond to the challenge. Scott Grooms will assume the controls of a sputtering Irish offense, hoping to find a way to move the football effectively for 60 minutes. It is not an easy task, consid­ering Beuerlein had been doing a fine job at quarter­back and still had problems putting the ball into the end zone. Now Grooms must try to solve the problem. It is not a promising task ahead ofthe vetera!l backup, but it is not an impossible one, either. 
Hopefully, Grooms will get help from the Irish run­ning game, which has been rather stagnant lately. Notre Dame's average of 119 rushing yards per game is the lowest mark by an Irish team since the NCAA began keeping stats in 1946. The running backs have been unable to get on track, partially because Notre Dame has been throwing so much and partially because there haven't been holes to run through. Now the Irish must get the running game in gear to help Grooms combat a solid Falcon defense. 
Defensively, the Irish have their work cut out for them. For the last two years, the Irish have had their problems stopping the Falcons in their wishbone op­tion attack. This year, the task doesn't look any easier, as Air Force ranks second in the nation in rushing, averag­ing 333 yards per game. The Falcons' two top rushers, fullback Pat Evans and halfbackJody Simmons, are both averaging nearly seven yards per carry, so the Irish can't key on just one player. 
The Falcons have thrown effectively this ye.ar, but an injury to quarterback Brian Knorr has hampered that aspect of their game in recent weeks. Backup signal­caller Bart Weiss will put the ball up occassionally, but he is much more effective as a running quarterback. Still, the Irish secondary must be alert for split end Ken Carpenter and backs coming out of the backfield or Weiss will burn them. 
Burning is something the Irish have been doing ever since last year's Air Force game, when )'lotre Dame lost a 12-point fourth-quarter lead. Air Force tied the game with I :35 left on a Mike Brown touchdown, but kicker Sean Pavlich missed the extra-point. However, Notre Dame was called for otfsides, and Pavlich converted on the second try to make it 23-22. The Irish drove back down the field, but Mike Johnston had a 31-yard field goal attempt biocked, and the game was history. 
Last year's Notre Dame team showed character by 
see ITEMS, page 9 







