SMC Elections -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 84 tht: imkpt:ndt:lll ~tudt:nt n~:wspapt-r ~t-r\·ing notre dame and ~aim mary·~ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1984 

Student Union plan for change debated 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTfl 
News Staff 
Student Union Director Dave Drouillard said last night he thinks joni Neal, assistant director of Stu­dent Activities. may be "rushing things too much" with her plan to have a major Student Union reor­ganization proposal ready for a vote in the Student Senate on Monday. 
"There are still a lot ofgrey areas to be cleared up," Drouillard noted after yesterday's me~:ting of the Stu­dent Union Steering Committee. 
Calling the proposal "rough," he said that the committee needed more time to investigate before it could forward the plan to the senate. 
Neal acknowledged "a few dis­crepencies" on some specific issues but remained confident that the Friday meeting ofthe Steering Com­mittee would be the last one needed to finish the proposal. 
The original plan was drafted by Neal after consulting Drouillard, Stu­dent Union Comptroller Bob Bondi, liirector of Student Activities Jim McDonnell and Student Body Presi­dent Brian Callaghan. 
i 

· The purpose of the proposal is multi-leveled. Neal stressed one partcular objective: social unity. "It appears to me that most ofthe social activity on this campus takes place in the halls," she said. 
The new plan calls for a more campus-oriented social program, replacing present commissions with more comprehensive committees. Including representatives from each hall, these committees would theoretically lead to significant in­creases in social interaction for the entire campus, said Neal. 
She also noted that the new com­mittees would cut out much of the wasteful overlap between current Student Union commissions, thus producing a much more efficient operation. 
Another issue the plan addresses is the changing of the Student Government working year from an April-to-April calendar to a February-to-December schedule. This modification would have a great impact on the current election process and political term sevice. 

Drouillard explained that the main reason for this constitutional change focuses on the prevention of "second semester drag" a problem in student government. "Students just aren't as motivated in their second semester," he said. 
Another constitutional change in­cluded in the plan is the changing of the comptroller's position to a con­troller's. This reform is more than a pure semantic twist. 
Under this change, the respon­sbilities of the present office of comptroller would be reduced to a purely record keeping and "paper shuffling" post, said Drouillard. The responsibility of financial manage­ment would fall on the director's shoulders, significantly increasing the director's workload. 
Drouillard said that changes of this nature are the difficulties of this proposal. Any modification of the student government constitution re­quires the approval of the Student Senate, the Hall Presidents' Council, and all hall councils. It is in this stage that bills of the past years have run aground, he said. 
But Drouillard is optimistic. "We (the Student lhion) have a good relationship with Student Govern­ment this year," he said. "I think this will go through." 
Holding two year's experience in the Student Union, Drouillard is in full support of the proposal. "This is what we think will work the best," he said. 


on Steering Committee. According to Drouillard, "Tbere are still a lot ofgrey areas" in the proposal. Story at left. 
District 2 candidates' views similar 
Editor's Note: The following is tbe second ofa five-part series describ­ing the candidates in each of the five Student Senate districts. Today's segment profiles can­didates from District 2, which con­sists ofBreen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan, Stanford, and Zahm Halls. The series will con­tinue tomorrow with District3. 
By BARBARA HARDIN 
News Staff 
District 2 Student Senate can­didates Doug O'Brien and Pat Browne hold similar views on the use of alcohol on campus, the final exam policy, and the need to look into bookstore prices. 
O'Brien, a Cavanaugh junior, says a decision to restrict alcohol use on campus to those students 21 and older would be "unenforceable and impractical.'' He adds,"Some R.A.'s 


Conclusions same in French, U.S. ishops' letters on nuclear weapons 
ByJOHN NEBLO 
StaffReporter 
"There is no essential difference of opinion between the French and American bishops' letter on nuclear arms," said Father Gerard Defois, former secretary general of the French bishop's conference. "The differences in the letters lie not in the conclusions drawn, but in the methodology used," he said. 
Defois, who is credited with writing the bulk of the controversial French bishops' statement, said the American bishops' letter is a "120­page overview of the problem which analyzes theological, scrip­tural, traditional. and pastoral im­plications." 
U.S. critics ofthe French letter say the document is too conservative because it does not challenge direct· ly the French government's posses­sion of nuclear weapons. 
Defois says such criticism is unfounded. 'lbe I ';-page letter. he said was onl · intended to "make a French bishops examined "the , tion, said Defois, adding, "nuclear political realities of today and then deterrence is not peace, it is only a inductively arrived at the moral im-: rightful means ofself-defense until a plications ofthe nuclear weapons." true peace can be realized.'' 
moral  statement  about  nuclear  The crux of the French bishops'  
weapons as a deterrent to war" and  position lies in what Defois called  
to "generate public debate."  the "ethic ofdistress." AccQCding to  
The American bishops' methodol­ the principle, the  French bishops  
ogy was "a deductive process which  recognize  two  moral  courses  by  
analyzed Catholic doctrine and then  which  to  deal  with  the  Soviet  
"menace." These choices are; a total  
renunciation of violence as a means  
of self-defense, or the maintainance  
ofa credible deterrent to war.  
According to Defois, the first op­ 
tion  requires,  "an  extreme  moral  
heroism, a saintliness on the order of  
Gandhi, which simply cannot be ex­ 
pected  from  the  population  as  a  
whole." Thus. pacifism  on  the  na­ 
tional  scale  is  a  moral  non­ 
1  obligation." However, said  Defois,  
the  bishops  did  insist  that  non­ 
Father Gerard Defois  violence is a morally praiseworthy  
applied it to specific ll.S. policies,"  option for individuals.  
he said.  Nuclear  deterrence  is  morally  
By comparison, said Defois, the  legitimate only as an interim solu­ 

would be stricter than others" in enforcing the policy, and this would 
be unfair. 

Browne, a Stanford sophomore, agrees that a change in the alcohol policy would be "totally ridiculous." Browne says, "It would turn R.A.'s into watchdogs, and people wouldn't trust each other." Accord­ing to Browne, students would simp­ly hide their drinking, and plan "illegal parties" despite the rule. 
Both O'Brien and Browne predict more underage students in local bars and an increase in drunk driving accidents as a result of more off­campus parties. Also, both agree that adjustments could be made in party . room regulations rather than forbid­ding alcohol altogether. 
In regard to the proposed final ex­am policy change, O'Brien says, "It makes you wonder what a student is expected to get out of a class when all there is to worry about is the final exam" According to O'Brien, rcquir· ing a final exam to account for one­third to two-thirds of one's final grade is unfair. "A steady progres­sion of work throughout the semes­ter is the most accurate way to evaluate a student," says O'Brien. 
Likewise, Browne says, "No one's performance can be judged for an entire semester on one test.'' He adds, "the discretion of whether or not to make finals accumulative should be up to the teacher or the department.'' 
O'Brien, a history major, says, "A good student senator knows what's going on in hall council.'' O'Brien has been on Cavanaugh's Hall Coun­cil for two years as both a council member and a social commissioner. and , if elected. he plans to regularly attend hall council meetings in his district. 
O'Brien says, "It's important for the administration to know how the students feel,"and he say heintends to relay exactly what the con· stituents want. 
O'Brien says a senator's job is to "analyze and propose new policies," and that it is "unrealistic to promise to change already existing univer­sity policies.'' 
According to O'Brien, the Student 
Union is out of touch with the Uni­versity, and he says he would like to see more interaction between the two. He also sees a need for more interaction between senators and their constituents. "People trip right over their senators without knowing who there are," he says. 
O'Brien says, "We need senators who are not afraid to say what they think." If, collectively, "the senators exemplify strong leadership and voice, as a union we can get things done.'' 
Browne, an accounting major, was a member of the Freshman Ad· visory Council last year and is presently a member of the Sopho­more Advisory CounciL He is also a social commissioner on the Stanford Hall Council. 
Browne says he likes the idea of District 2 consisting of a quad with 
NO 
Campqign 
'84 
the dorms in such close proximity to each other. "I would like to promote unity on North Quad through ac­tivities,"says Browne. Some such ac­tivities would be a "progressive party with just the district and a movie or two shown at Haggar Hall." 
He says he would also like to "set up a District 2 Advisory Council with hall presidents and random students in which I would compile views of students in the district and carry them to the senate." 
.Browne sees a present problem with student/rector relations. He says he would work towards "better communications between students and their rectors.'' He would like to "motivate rectors to get involved with the students in their dorm." He says this could be accomoplished by encouraging rectors to help stu­dents in coordinating social ac· tivities. 
If elected, Browne says he will do the best job he can do and "make the best ofthings" himself. Says Browne, 
see SENATE, page 4 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1984-page 2 
In Brief Space Walker 
Two of three students at the University receive 
some form of financial aid, according to a preliminary 1983-84 report from the Office of Financial Aid. A total of 6,175 students averaged S'i,319 in assistance. Forms of aid, which are expected to total S52.8 million this academic year, include scholarships, grants­in-aid. loans, campus employment, federal assistaP.ce progrmes, Res<:rve Offin.·r Training Corps awards, and non-federal funds. Total undergraduate assistance ( S22.8 million) is S840,000 more than the 1982-83 school year, and graduate student aid ( Sl0 million) is up 11256,000. llndcrgraduate costs -tuition and room and board ­average S8,6'iO at the University. Graduate tuition is 56,270 a year. -The Obsert'er 
After violating university policyconcern­
ing liabilities, sanitation, and contracts with vendors last spring, 
Ohio State students came to an agreement with Dean of Students 
Mitchel Livingston. The problem arose from students illegally selling 
bakt.·d goods in the dorms to raise money. Livingston got vendors to agree to the sale of products they weren't presently offering, and showed students what they had to do to meet the sanitation laws. While the new policy makes food sales possible, it doesn't make tht.·m easy. Sales of homemade food are still prohibited. And while fruit, nuts, and popcorn may be sold raw, cookies, donuts, and the like must be individually prepackaged. The policy keeps students from having to buy expensive state and local licenses, but a lot of campus paperwork is involved. In addition, vending machine owners insisted that student food sales be at least 30 feet away from tht. :r machines. -The Obsen,er 
Two Challenger astronauts refueled their backpacks yesterday for an encore venture into open space, while officials on the ground worried that rain and clouds might prevent the first Florida shuttle landing on Saturday. Mission Control told astronauts Bruce McCandless and Robert Stewart, " you're the talk of the world," after their tether less space walk Tuesday. -AP 
Of Interest 
CBS sports announcers Billy Packer and Gaf) 
Bender will lead a workshop this afternoon on "The Anatomy of a National Broadcast" at 4:15 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Also participating in the workshop will he Kevin O'Malley, ex­ecutive producer of college sports for CBS; Rick Sharp, prodl!lcer; Larry Cavolina, director; and Mark Carlson, CBS director of college sports information. The workshop is sponsored hy the Department of American Studies. -The Obsen'£'1' 
Pamphlets on federal financial aid are 
availabk at the Student Government office. Federal programs are explained aud questions answered in the brochure, which is printed hy the fcdcral govcrnment. To he eligible for fedcral aid, students must submit a Financial Aid Form by March I. FAF forms arc availahk in the financal Aid office. -The Obsen,er 
The championship roundof the Collcge Bowl 
ht.·gins today at 6 p.m. as jim Lcous' team takes on the tcam ofChris Barat in room I I 2-1 14 of tht.· CCE. At 6:30 p.m. the winner of the l.eous/Barat match faccs Steve Ross' team. the: winner moving on to tht.· championship match against the: undcfcatcd Ray Davis team at 7 
p.m. Tht.· tournament is douhle-climination, so if the Davis tcam lost.·s, tht.· final will he repcated at 7:50p.m.-The Obsert1er 

Weather 
. 

Put away your snow boots and break out your 
galoshes. Today will hc fair and mild with a high around 40. Tonight will he increasingiy cloudy and warmer with a 20 percent chance of light rain or freezing rain and a low ncar 50. Cloudy tomorrow with a t.·hancc of rain. lligh ncar 40. -The Obsen'er 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Production Consultant........Stt·ve 'Foster Design Editor........... .......... Carole Laugier /Jt•slg" Assisttmt ........... Maureen Murphy l.ayout Staff............................. Lisa Meehan 
The Observer (I !SPS ~99 l-4000) is Janna Schwartsman puhli,h<·d Monday through l'riday ami Ml<'hael Colgan on home.· touthJII Saturdays, c.·xcc.·pt Claire Knt=uer durinlo( t:xam Jnd vacalion pc:riods. The TJ•pesellers ...... llilllfighducheck Observer i:o. puhlbhc.·d hy the.· studc.·nt!'l of Carol Gales tht· I:niVl'f!\il}' of Notn: Dame and Saint Neu•s Editor...... .. .. ...... Amy Stephan ,'\ttary'!'l Collq(t' ·"uhscriptioos my he.· Copy l:'ditor.... ....john lfeaslr purl'ha"·tl ti>r Sl~ pa )'<'ar ( Sl ~ pa .\ports Copy Editor... .......... Marc Ramlrcz sc.·mt'-'lcr) hy writ in~ The Observer, Vit•u•pvint Lt~J·out .. ... Torn Small 
P.O Uox Q, Notr<· Dame, lndiana-46~~6 Mary Dolan 
The Obl;erver I' a member ofThe As­ND Day Editor... .......... Mdinda Moore sociated Pre"''· All reproduction right' SMC Day Editor. .Marr Ann Potter arc rc.·sc.·rvcd. Ad Desigtl .. ........ Boh Slota 
PboltJI(rapb<'l' ..... .. ......javkr Oliva 1)•pists .. .................. Ellen Malloy 
Ready . . . Shuttle Challenger mission specialist Bruce McCand· less prepares to disembark from the craft and "walk" unattached in space. 
Set •.. McCandless appears to take a deep breath before flying the manned maneuvering unit au•ay from the spacecraft. 
Go • . . Finally, he becomes a human satellite as he floats 150 feet away from the Challenger. 
Photos by the Associated Press 


lfs happening here! Right next to Ft. Lauderdale with six miles of white sandy beach, a boardwalk, lower hotel rates and great places to eat and party. Plus, we're the home of Six Flags Atlantis, World's largest Water Theme Park! 
Send today for your free 
color poster of"The Rivals" 
and also a free copy of 
our hotel guide. Why not 
spend Spring Break In Hollywood tor a change... lfs where rivals revel! 
Fill outthe coupon below and mall to: 
rl~-;:r-;;.=~;:~-;-,1 
of Commerce. P.O Box 2345 .1Hollywood, Florida 33022 1 
I Name I 
I School Name I 
I I
I Addres I 
I City I 
I state/Zip I 
The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1984-page 3 
5 '<? 

;N~ccounting department ranked eighth nationally in recent survey 
By REBECCA HETLAND  and this time we did it.", Rueschhoff  tiona!  accounting  jourlliHS-and,  
StaffReporter  said.  Rueschhoff noted, serve on national  
One of the instrumental factors in  boards and committees which aid in  
The  accounting department  of  the ranking, Rueschhoff noted, was  circulating the reputation of Notre  
Notre Dame's school ofbusiness was  accounting  student  performance.  Dame.  
ranked eigth nationally in a recent  He  cited  Jane  Thompson,  who  Notre Dame's accounting depart­ 
poll of over 400 accounting depart­ placed third in the nation  on her  ment  instructs  approximately  I 'i  
ment deans by Public Accounting  CPA  exam  in  1981  and, Anthony  percent of student enrollment with  
Report magazine.  Thomas, one of five students in the ·  2'i faculty members.  
Notre Dame's first top ten ranking  U.S. to receive an Financial Account­ The curriculum offered is  com­ 
is  attributed  to  the  increased  ing  Standards  Board  internship.  parable to most collegiate account­ 
publicity recieved by the account­ Publicity such as this directs nation­ ing  programs,  but  Rueschhoff  
ing program, said department chair­ al  attention  to  the  Notre  Dame  pointed out,"Notre Dame freshman  
man Leornard Savoie.  program.  accounting majors take a common  
Also a factor, said Rueschhoff, is  freshman  year,  so  the program is  
Dr.  Norlin  Rueschhoff,  former  the tremendous amount of student  more balanced than a typical voca­ 
chairman of the  department,  said  and faculty participation in the na­ tional program found at some of the  
Notre  Dame had previously been  tional Beta Alpha Psi conventions.  larger universities."  
ranked in the top twenty, but agreed  Notre  Dame  has  gained  much  The top ten ranking, in order, was  
the  department's  increased  publicity for its accounting program  as follows; Illinois, Texas, Southern  
pub! t icity was the key factor in break  through this channel.  California,  Michigan,  Ohio  State,  
ing into the top ten.  Besides national student recogni­ Brigham  Young,  Michigan  State,  
tion, a number of faculty members  Notre Dame, Georgia, and the Whar­ 
"In order to be included in such a list, the University must have very good and widespread publicity. No chairman would vote for Notre Dame if we had not proven our­\ selves worthy for all to see. It has '' taken us time to get the publicity  including Chairman Professor Leor­nard Savoie, Assistant Chairman As­sociate Professor Ken Milani, Associate Professors Norlin Rueschhoff, David Ricciute, Kevin Misiewicz, and William Nichols, have been regularly published in na­ ton School ofBusiness. Chairman Savoie pointed out that Notre Dame was the only university among the top ten which does not offer a doctoral program in account­ing which may have kept it out ofthe ranking in previous years.  Watching and waiting A Lebanese woman andber two cbildren wattfor a safe moment to leave tbetr underground shelter. Most ofBeirut's more tban one mtllton residents spent Tuesday nigbt in shelters as fighting raged on tn Lebanon.  


Saint Mary's to elect student body, class officers today 
Two candidates on ballotfor student bodypresident Two tickets vie for senior class offices 
By PAM RIC_HARDSON Notre Dame campuses. planned by the ticket ifelected. ,By PAM RICHARDSON Pascente said that if elected, they StaffReporter Comprising the second ticket are; Manion stressed the student­StaffReporter want to get as much feedback as pos­Lee Ann Franks, student body presi­teacher relationship as being very sible from the class, in order to do 
After a week of hanging posters, dent; Anne Marie Kollman, vice important. They would like to in­Two groups ofcandidates hope to "what they (the class) want to be in­handing out platform statements president ofstudent affairs; and julie itiate student-teacher activities such lead Saint Mary's class of '8'i into volved in." for this reason the ticket and door-to-door campaigning, Saint Strazzabosco, vice president of as slave auctions for United Way, their senior year as class officers. is proposing a senior newsletter in Mary's will conclude its election as academic affairs. along with investigating student in­The first ticket is comprised of order to inform off-campus as well as students vote today for next year's Their ticket is stressing the fact put in tenure and curriculum re­Debbie Pascente, president; Mary on-cah1pus seniors of what has been student body preside11t and vice­that as student body officers they quirements. Sue Dunn, vice president; Regina planned. 
presidents. won't just plan activities, but act as On the social side of the platform, Pinotti, secretary; and Tracy Brio­In the ;rea of social activities the Two tickets are vying for the posi­the link berureen the student body Manion's ticket is planning a Saint gardner, treasurer. All four say they ticket is planning a father's weekend, 
tions. The . first is comprised of; and the faculty and administration. Patty's Day Celebration, concerts at Michelle Manion, student body Communication between these Saint Miry's, a mock winter Olym­president; Maureen Karnatz, vice three groups is a big part of their pics, and a five hall dance during 
•• 
SMC 

president of student affairs; and platform. Franks said she knew this Orientation week. Chris Hart, vice president of to be ."a big trouble spot at Saint If elected, Franks would have 
ca.m.pa·.i·g.n.

academic affairs. All three will be Mary's and we want to be the regular office hours in order to talk seniors next year. administrative-student link, by to the students. She also said she 
'84 

a luau to open the year, and a senior winter spectacular. 
Maureen Galligan, president; Ann Bowler, vice president; Many Bonich, secretary; and jane Rauh, treasurer, make up the opposing ticket. Galligan wants to add new 
. ,..-illlllll!l'.....;;;._ _,

Their platform exphasizes im­bringing issues to the administra­would like to work more traditions as well as maintain those 
proved publicity of Saint Mary's tion." cooperatively with RA's next year. feel they have "helped the building of past senior classes. They will aim 
events. They are proposing a Manion said, "We want to Franks said the structure of stu­process of our class." They plan to for quality and not quanity in their 
separate publicity committee, in recognize student achievements in dent government at Saint Mary's is implement further improvements to events, and would like to get more 
combination with a work-study athletics, art, academics and music." continiuing to change and they feel hHp make their senior year their people involved in class activities. 
program, that would pay students to An in-depth study of the results of they can help this change be a go~ best yet. Their platfrom includes a proposal for an off-campus senior board in order to get more off campus-students students involved. In the area of campus liturgy, Gal­ligan wants to have more senior 

VAN LINES 

Masses and if possible, more Runs this wee¥end-FrL ~ Sat. -movies, retreats. Academically the Galligan ticket
shopping, dining~,-Uriiv~sity Park Mall and ACCENT 
would like to have a career day asTown & Country. 50<!: Round trip. Pay as you well as representat?\'es from 
board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle YOUR graduate schools visit Saint Mary's. Socially, the ticket would like to
Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 
see a father-daughter weekend, pig
4:00 on Sat. roasts, and happy hours.
LIFE 
Clarification 

In an article which appeared in yesterday's Observer, Doug Wurth, a candidate for Student Senate dis­trict 1, was quoted as saying "there is not enough information" to take a position on the alcohol proposal. Wurth was referring to the yet-to­be-released proposal being drafted 

by the Provost's Committee for the Responsible Use of Alcohol. 
Wurth said last night that he is opposed to the idea of a dry campus. "Banning alcohol would be an unwise and irresponsible move on the part ofthe administra­tion," he said. 
The article also stated that the administration has a policy to ban alcohol from the campus. In fact, there is yet no such policy. Ban­ning alcohol is only one of many options that the committee is studying, according to the latest statements by Father William Beauchamp, chairman and ad­ministrative assistant to the ex­ecutive vice president. 




.------,.----------------------------------------­
,.
The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1984 -lage 4 

ir1 tbe Kosevo Stadium in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia yester­day. 


Decision to remove troops to help Reagan politically despite attacks 
Associated Press 
SANTA BARBARA, CA. · Prt>sident Rt·agan's order to move U.S. Marines in Bdrut to the sakty of ships off­shore was a dream come true for politkal strategists plotting his rt·· dt·ction campaign en·n tbough it escalated the ll.S. military role in Lebanon. 
Suggt•stions now have been raised that Reagan reneged on his word not "to cut and run" from Lebanon. And Democrats stepped up their attack on him for keeping the troops there as long as ht· did. 
Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said he would have been rductant to withdraw; "I think that the consequences ofsomething that is perceived to he an American withdrawal under pressure in the face of the opposite statements that have been made (by Reagan) for weeks is likely to be quite serious throughout the Middle East and maybe other parts ofthe world." 
Sen. Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz., said, "I'd rather lose a little face than lose a half-million men." 
Still, Reagan's decision seems sure to help him politically. 
As Electioft Day approaches, the media will not show Marines in hunkers or stretchers carrying woundt•d and dead servicemen from bombed-out shelters, but U.S. warplant·s streaking over Beirut and warships offshore pounding Syrian­hacked artillery positions. 
At Reagan's campaign headquar­ters in Wa.'ihington, advisers had hoped for just such a decision. 
Politically, the Marine presence in Bc:irut has bt·en a liability for Reagan. During his administration, 264 U.S. st"rvicemen were killed in Lebanon, and polls show a majority of Amt'ricans favored the withdrawaL The Demol.·rats have attacked 


Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
"I woukl he very dedicated and sup­port my district in campus affairs." 
Both candidates. ifdected, plan to invcstigatt· hook prices at tht· Notre Dame bookstore. Both arc in­tcn·sted in knowing whethl'r th~: prices arc hoosted for bookstore profit The candidates say that with the prict· of tuition, studl'nts should not be asked to pay extra for books. 

Reagan's Lebanon stand for months, dered the Marines moved gradually and Democratic presidential can­to ships offshore, beginning with didatl's have demanded the about 500 troops within a month. withdrawaL He also authorized air and naval fire 
The administration recently had in retaliation for any shelling from been defensive as House Democrats Syrian-held areas into Beirut. There pushed for a non-binding resolution will be a growing U.S. military role, for a prompt and orderly pullout. but the risk of personal danger will 
In his order Tuesday, Reagan or-wane. 

•

a un1que opportunity for 
Civil Engineers 
For you and the world itself. As a Peace Corps volun­teer, you can put your degree to work at a challeng­ing, demanding and unique opportunity. You'll be meetinll new people, learning a new language, ex­periencong a new culture and !laining a whole new outlook. And while you're buildong your future, you'll help people in developing countries plan, design, and construct roads, buildings, sanitation systems, dams, bridges, canals or other structures which are critical for meeting,_ their economic needs. 
See Peace Gorps Rep at Government Career Day on Feb 
16. Film Seminar Thursdny, Feb 16 at 7 p.m. 12~ Niewland 
Science Hall Interv~ews March 6.& 7 In~erested seniors can 
s~gn up 1n advance in Place­
ment Office 


Doctor joins patients in picketing copper co. 
Associated Press 
CLIFTON, Ariz.-Dr. jorge O'Leary not only treats his patients' ills, he has become a leader of their strike against Phelps Dodge Corp., the cop­per company that used to employ him. 
He walks the picket line. He offers free medical help to needy pickets. He calls the seven month-old strike by miners "our cause." 
"We are on the right track," O'Leary said, "we arc hard-working people and I think that sooner or later God is going to help us, or society, or whoever." 
O'Leary, 43, runs the People's Clinic in a converted feed store in Clifton, seeing 30 to 35 patients a day, many of whom don't pay. 
Only a few months ago, he was a company doctor working at a hospi· tal owned by Phelps Dodge. During 12 years there, he had delivered some 2,500;babies. But, he said, he became radicalized when the com­pany usd its hospital and the hospi­tal's medical staff "to break the strike" that ha.~ torn this town. 
In October, during chaos result­ing from the worst flooding in CJif. ton in nearly a century, Phelps Dodge terminated him from his S50,000-a-year posrtlon on its Morenci Hospital staff for what management called his "inflammatory behavior." 
He had accused the hospital of 


Mode In Hollywood. USA 
~ Presents 
~ 
• 

THE ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTER EXHIBIT 
• 

AND SALE 
Hundreds of original -novle ;x>stors and memorabilia from the silent 
•

days to the present 
WHEN Wed.· Fri. 9AM-6PM 
• 

WHEflE, LaFortune C<:~nter, 
• 

DON'T MISS ITI 
•
Including kJCh hits a• 
GoMWift\TM~'Ind
........... 

omc:.t onct a Gentleman 
~floyd'IT,.Wall 
• 


"Discover" 
And discover a place where you and your friends will witness the finest entertainment In this entire area, as well asfabulous foods to feast on. Discover: 
1/s Pound Gourmet Burgers! Pizza Guaranteed To Satisfy! 24 Varieties ofImport Beers! 
Clip This Ad And Save 
$3.00 OFF ANY lARGE PIZZA $1.00 OFF ANY SMALL PIZZA 
$1.00 OFF ANY SANDWICH AND FRENCH FRIES PURCHASE 


THANK GOD ITS FRIDAY 
GOOD FOR ONE BEER FOR .25c Second Beer for only .soc 
ANY FRIDAY THIS MONTH , 
MUST BE 21 YEARS OlD TO USE THIS COU:s.·
.··' 

INClUDESONTAPBEERSONlY
----tr,---------------ohe»et)up5n Per Visit Limit! .._. '' -­
......uA 

5 Minutes East On Edison To Main St. 
Then 2 Blocks North To Day Rd. 
..______-.:::59-0050 ______... 
charging high fees to strikers and their fumilies, thereby turning away those needing medical attention. He offered to treat patients without charge. 
The hospital administration denied the allegations and declined his offer. After he was tired, he said, he was told he could rent office space at the hospital for several thousand dollars a month. He declined the offer. But he retains visiting priileges. He was evicted from his company-owned housing. 
Within a week or so of his firing, 
O'Leary, with the help of strikers, 

opened the Pl'ople's Clinic in this 
town of 4,200 people. While many 
of his patients pay nothing, O'Leary 
said his 10 to 15 private patients and 
those enrolled with the state's ex­
permental ACCESS health care 
program for indigents haVl' allowed 
him to become "self-sufficient, al­
most." 
O'Leary, a native of Hermosillo, Mexico, is the son of a Yaqui Indian and an Irishman who ran a large Mexican brewery. He is beloved by his patients, and has also drawn praise from the Arizona medical es­tablishment. 
He said he has received hundreds of supportive letters and an es­timated S3,000 to 55,000 in dona· tions that have paid for medical supplies and equipment. 

~j 
I• 
,, 
J; 
·r 
-)I 
J. 

The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1984 -page 5 
Congressional leaders are worried 



Who's who in Beirut 
over use of naval force in Beirut 
Associated Press 
DRUSE militia; Druse remain in 
something extra special 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Congres­sional leaders yesterday expressed relief over the planned withdrawal of Marines from Beirut but some worried about President Reagan's broadened rules for the use of naval guns and planes against Syrian­backed forces. 
"The situation is still very fluid and very dangerous," said Rep. Dante Fascell, D-Fla, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Commit­tee. It will "be a matter ofgreat con­cern to us," he said. 
Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn., said he has asked his staff and the White House to look into whether naval bombardment of Druse forces in Lebanon under Reagan· s new "rules ofengagement" requires additional authority from Congress. 
Baker told reporters he thinks the 

bombardment is covered by the war 
powers resolution Congress passed 
last fall, but added that he has not ex­
amined the ques~ion closely. "I have 
asked White House counsel for a 
· 

briefing on the subject," he said. 
Reagan announced Tuesday that he has ordered U.S. Marines gradual­ly withdrawn from their station at the Beirut airport to U.S. ships stand­ing off Lebanon in the Mediter­ranean. 
He also shifted U.S. strategy to permit naval guns and warplanes to strike at Syrian-backed factions even if American forces have not come under attack. Until now, the Marines ftred in self-defense, with the ships authorized to join in the retaliation. 
The resolution passed by Congress in September authorized the administration to keep Marines in Lebanon for up to 18 months, but required the president to seek con­gressional authority for any sig­nificant change in the mission ofU.S. forces there. 
Baker said new congressional authority presumably would be needed for the stepped-up training and equipping of the Lebanese armed forces which Reagan also an­nounced. 
The Foreign Affairs Committee 


..CCJQowettg fp!t aQQ occagiong~ ~ 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232~~.3541 
_ 

PIZZA 
16" LARGE....•... $6.19 
Exira Toppings S1.00 ea. 

Includes Free Delivery to ND & SMC 
Jolisq Jrinre Jizzerin 
I 

18061 STATE ROAD 23 1/z Block W. of Ironwood on 23 SOUTH BEND, IN. 
•.·I.JPn Dally 4 PM ·Til1 AM 

Car<y Out I Ctosed Mondays 
272-8030 . Um1ted FREE Oel,.er\·) 
OutdoorIce Skating 
at 
Stepan Courts 


Fri., Feb. 10 9-12pm 
FREE: BYO Skates -FREE: Hot choc.r£ookies 
DJ 

has been considering a resolution 
urging  a  quick  pullout  of  the  
Marines.  
Rep.  Morris  K. Udall,  D-Ariz.,  

praised the decision to withdraw but said he was "dismayed that the withdrawal is being accompanied with increased shelling of M:>slem positions by U.S. warships." 
Sen. Nancy Landon Kassebaum, R­Kan., a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said withdrawing the troops was at least "a step in a different direction" but questioned whether putting them on the ships "is not just another ver­sion ofbeing a sitting duck." 
Navy SecretaryJohn F. LehmanJr., told the House Armed Services Committee that the U.S. mission in Lebanon "remains one of peacekeeping, there has not been an escalation." 
Baker commented, "We're not going to abandon Lebanon. We will support (Lebanon) with naval ar­tillery and airpower." 
Asked whether he agrees with some in Congress who say the troops should be brought home, Baker replied, "Maybe so, but I'm not willing to say that yet. I think there is still a chance, maybe a slight chance, that we can have an inde­pendent and viable government" in Lebanon. 

Legal drinking age of 21 is target of state legislatures across country 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The highway death toll among young drinking drivers, especially under-age youngsters who cross state borders to drink legally, is the target of scores of bills in state legislatures aimed at raising the legal drinking age. 
"There is a tremendous amount of interest in raising the drinking age throughout the country," saidJohn !Vloulden ofthe National Transporta­tion Safety Board as he scanned a 
computer  printout  of  alcohol­ 
related  legislation  being  debated  
across the country.  ·  

He estimates more than 200 proposals have been introduced in various state legislatures. 
The problem of teen-age drinking was cited by President Reagan's commission on drunken driving, which urged in December after an IS-month study that Congress set a legal drinking age of 21 and cut federal highway funds to a state that fails to enforce it. 
"There is evidence ofa direct cor­relation between the minimum 
,.. 

-

CORKTO.rsNE 
.....

/LIQUO s,INC. 
1841 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
STATE ROAD 23 
'I• MILE WEST OF MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET 






LIQUOR
WINE 
BEER 
M &RAsti 
Seagrams 72 for $20
7.77 
1.751..
'"""' 
Miller Lite 7.99 
Fleischmann
Andre 
Lowenbrau 9.75 
Vodka
£rampagne2 for $5 
7.49
1751. 
Strohs 6.79
Gallo Table 
Castillo
Old Style 7.99
Wines 
Rum
Schlitz 6.99 
9.99
1... 
2.99 
1751. 
King Case 5.59 
E&J Brandy
Reunite 
5.88
750ml
Lambrusco 
2 for $5
"""'' 
II I,..
~ 

Kegs and Quarts in Stock 
.... .... 
drinking age and alcohol-related the state legislature. crashes among the age groups af-Gov. Richard Snelling ofVermont, fected," the panel said. which has kept the legal drinking 
age at 18 since 1971, opposes raising
The National Safety Council in the age to 21. He says the solution to Chicago estimates about half the drunken driving among teen-agers is 46,000 traffic deaths in the United 
. improved education and better en-
States m 1982 were alcohol·related. < fd k d · · 1 s
.orcement o run en nvmg aw . A report by the National Highway Snelling says driving deaths have Traffic Safety Administration found d d . V t 
~·, ecrease m ermon . eight states that raised the 1..15,.. Although Congress is taking steps drinking age showed an av:rage ~8 to set a nationwide minimum legal percent annual reduc~!On . m drinking age of 21, Moulden says, nighttime fu.tal accidents mvolvmg state laws are "much more likely to drivers aged 18 to 21. be enforced." Only 19 states have a drinking age Several governors, as well as Jim of 21 for all alcohol: Alaska, Burnett, chairman of the National Arkansas, California, Delaware, II-Transportation Safety Board, oppose linois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, any congressional threat to with­Michigan, Missouri, Nevada, New hold federal highway money as a Jersey, New Mexico, North Dakota, way ofenforcing a uniform drinking Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, age of 21 among the states. Utah and Washington. White House spokesman Robin Three states, Vermont, Hawaii and Gray said Reagan has taken no posi-Louisiana, have the lowest legal tion on the commission's highway drinking age of 18. fund cutoffproposal. In West Virginia, Gov. John Rock-But Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg, D· efeller says his primary legislative N.J., has introduced a bill that would goal for the year is to raise his state's use the cutoff threat to press states legal drinking age of 19. Hearings on into enforcing a uniform drinking the proposal are to begin today in age of21. 
Here is an outline of the deploy­ment of troops and militias in 'Lebanon: 
AMAL shiite militia; the largest of the Shiite Moslem militias has taken control of Moslem west Beirut and the southern suburbs and is joined by Druse militias and defecting units of the Lebanese army. They appear to have stopped shooting, and the militiamen have been ordered off the streets. 
LEBANESE army; sixty percent of the 37,000 enlisted men are Shiites. Many ofthe units appear to have dis­persed or defected. Part of the 8th Brigade was in the central moun­tains battling Druse. The Sixth Brigade has defected to the rebels and said it will assume security duties in west Beirut. The remaining Lebanese soldiers are scattered and refusing to fight. 
SYRIAN forces; Syrians occupy the northern and eastern sections of Leb t anon and support the Shiites and the Druse in their fight against the government and the army. 
U.S. MARINES; 1,400 men in bunkers at their headquarters at Beirut International Airport at the southern edge of the city await or­ders for redeployment to ships of the U.S. 6th Fleet off the shores of Lebanon. 
the central mountains overlooking Beirut, and. are reported firing on Christian-held east Beirut. Their ar­tillery positions have been reported hit by shells from the U.S. Navy bat­tleship New Jersey. Druse have joined the Shiites controlling west Beirut. 
CHRISTIAN militia; the military wing of the Phalange Party, which is headed by President Amin Gemayel's father, controls east Beirut and an area to the north. 
ITALIAN forces; some I,400 are in the Shiite and Palestinian slums of Beirut, north ofthe airport. On Wed­nesday Italy ordered a gradual withdrawal. 
FRENCH forces; more than 1,800 men, headquartered at the racetrack on the old green line frontier be­tween east and west, remain at their posts but patrols outside their sector have been halted. 
BRITISH forces; all 115 men have been pulled out of their suburban position in an abandoned tobacco factory and moved to a Royal Navy ship offthe coast. 
ISRAELI forces; Israeli troops are deployed in south Lebanon, behind a line at the A wali River in an area inhabited largely by Shiite Moslems. 
; 





Vieweoint 
Thursday, February 9, 1984 -page 6. 
The ballet of devils in Central America 
Tht· great tragedy of American foreign policy is that it is formulatnl and conducted by lwartless cynics who masquerade a~ realists. This is pnfl-ctly illustrated in an ar­ticle on El Salvador by Robert Tucker, a professor of international law and diplomacy, 
John Murphy 

Guest column 
appearing in the October issue of The New Republic. 
Tlll"ker states that an American defeat in El Salvador would have no significance for our actual national security, hut he asserts that it would alt'cct that amorphous, abstract quan­tity known as "the credibility of American power." 
Tuckl·r weaves his arguments with words like submission, demands, humiliation, con­demnation and nmtt·mpt. lie even terms military intervention in El Salvador lasting a year or more a "modest enterprise." 
Yet never once docs he speak ofthe conse­quences for the Salvadorans. Not so much as a tip of the hat to a people who have suffered immense hunger, torture and violent death for years. No consideration ofthe implications his alternatives would have on human life in the country called "The Savior." 
This same cold, rational calculation is seen in the recently released report of the Kissin­ger Commission. By now the fact thar the roots of Central American unrest lie in poverty and social injustice is common knowledge, even to Kissinger. So naturally the report recommends extensive economic aid to the impoverished region, and incidentally to its people. It only makes good strategic sense. 
Similarly the commission recommends continued aid to the contra rebels battling Nicaragua; this despite the influence that the contra raids have had on the general well­being of the Nicaraguan people. 
As detailed by Richard M. Garfield in the New York Times these "freedom fighters" have killed more than I000 peasants, created 56,000 refugees and the disease and malnutri­tion which usually accompany them, and have destroyed 22 rural health posts and hospitals. 

In the process of that la~t one they succeeded in killing 19 health workers and abducting, torturing and raping 26 more. But then it all makes such good strategic sense. 
Of course this administration also has dis­played its concern over human rights abuses in El Salvador. "Abuses" such as the report that 83 young people and children whose decapit· ulated bodies were found in August 1981 had been beheaded by security forces, as detailed in the 1982 Amnesty International annual report. 
So on his recent visit Secretary of State George Shultz stressed to the government that Congress would never approve more military aid unless things like that ceased. In­cidentally he added human rights progress would benefit the people too, because "who wants to live in a country where murder takes place on such a scale and isn't punished." It would be funnier ifit weren't so pathetic. 
Napolean Duarte, a Notre Dame graduate, voiced some words of wisdom on this subject once. He said, "If the people of my country only believed that tomorrow would be better than today, that their children would live a better life than they did, then the communists could bring all the guns they wanted into El Salvador and there would be nobody to pick them up." 
Maybe his people would bt· justified in 
believing that tomorrow will be better if only 
an American politician (or voter) could be 
found who gave a damn about them. 
Instead it's as Gustav Ha~ford wrote after 
returning from Vietnam: 
"Politics is a ballet ofdevils, and politicians, with paper roses falling out of their mouths, cannot conceal the blood from distant wounds that stains their neckties -but they do try, and millions do listen and believe, and choose not to sec." 
Or to care for that matter. 
•john Murphy ts• a graduate student in civil 
engineering_atNotreDame. 

p Box• 0 •  
Swollen heads [)ear Editor': The Ohsen•er seems to be suffering from swollen heads and myopic eyesight. In Wed­nesday's t·ditorial, the board implies that it is more important than the student hody ofSaint Mary's. The editorial states that The Ohsen•er wanted a mutually convenient time to meet the candidates. llnfortunatdy, in the real world, evt·nts don't happen at convenient times. As it turned out, tht· "Mn·t the Candidates Night" wa~ already scheduled. Since elections an· today, a news story should have appeared on Wedm·sday instead of a "Viewpoint" editorial. This would have serVl"d Saint Mary's bcttt·r. The Ohsen,er also seems to think its en­rst·mcnt is very important to the candidate. llowcver, both candidates seem to think otherwise. In fact, an endorsement by the prt·St·nt board probably is a liability. While an endorsement is of interest, publication of tht· candidate's views is impor­tant. Someday the editorial board will get a istic perspective on life. Then students rt·ad news in~tcad ofViewpoint whines. joseph Leary Grading system /Jem· Ftlitor: While reading Keith Picher's column on Notrt· Dame's grade-point system, I was fa~­cinatnl by his cotKept of the difference be­twt·t·n an A, A-and B. lie looks at an A-and sees a deflated A, when it could just as easily he a ht·nefit-of-the-doubt B. While no ont· ha., the statistics to prove it for sure, I ratht·r hdievt· that deflated B's would tend to cancel out in the A-category, and rt·gard it as merely a mt·aningless grade overall, ratht·r than a black mark. Tom MacLennan  vague relationship between credit and grades. The Law 'n' Order School can grade the campus constabulary, and the BusinessSchoolUnless that relationship is to be repudiated, the secretaries who really run this place.some arrangement for evaluating Student Notre Dame can dump a degree on anybodyGovernment will have .to be voted into the for anything, if it has the mind to do it.Code by the University's Academic Council Oh, maybe thirteen or eighteen studentswhen, ifever, the Council next meets. will be left who still expect to learn thingsSimply stated, who will grade Student they have not personally experienced, stu­Government's performance? Shall the Student dents who want to read books and go to cla-;s.Body at large submit anonymous Student All sut-h eccentrics can become HistoryGovernment Evaluation Forms each spring? majors, hunkering about the feet of the oneShall Dean Roemer grade the campus politics Muse who insists upon teaching trivial ir­-after promising, of course, not to be ar­relevancies about distant and strange people,bitrary, not to act in loco parentis and not to events and dreams ­who insists upon reveal­let Indiana's statute law warp his judgment ing the world beyond the boundaries of thisabout Student Government's recommenda­campus and beyond the narrow perspectivestions? ofthis age.But why limit extracurricular credit to Stu­dent Governors? The Athletic Department Once the few remaining scholars become could grade football and ba~kctball players ­historians, the University can save bundles of thus solving a lot ofother problems -while money by firing the redundant faculty, shut­the Music Department credits the bandper­ting down all the otherdepartments, boarding sons who march at halftime. Fine Arts could grade the cheerleaders, the clubs which show movies and the people who drape signs from dorm windows during llomecoming. Sociology could award credit to anyone who ha~ an opinion, and Anthropology to anyone who acknowkdges his or her relation­ship to a chimpanzee. Philosophy could evaluate folks who try real hard to think; Economics, anyone with a checking account; Math, anyone who can actually balance a checkbook; Prt•professional, anyone who im­agines a $160,000 annual income places one within the middle class; ROTC, anyone who looks macho in khaki; English, anyone who writes for The Ohseroer, Scholastic or thejug­glt>r; and Biology, anyone who ha~ survived puberty. Theology can grade every born-again soul who wants to do good, unless the theologians finally determine that the predisposition to goodness is utterly predestined, in which case they can just damn practically everybody. Indeed, why limit credit to students? Other people do nonacademic stuff around here. Earth Sciences can surely evaluate the  up the Library, selling degrees by mail and converting all the abandoned classroom and office buildings into social space. On the other hand, maybe it is time for somebody to draw a line. Perhaps the Univer­sity should even contemplate moving in the opposite direction -say, by adopling and enforcing serious and workable final exam, at­tendance and grading policies which will communicate the notion that academics mat­ter. Historians suspect that the Age of Aquarius is over. Prof Bob Kc>rby Correction Saint Mary's student body president Eileen Murphy was elected in 19tH, not 1982 a~ stated in yesterday's Obseroer editorial. Ieen Murphy won the election in 1982 in unopposed campaign. ~ I  

groundkeepers' pt·rformancc. Engineering


Student gov't 

can award credit to the llni\·ersity's steamfit­ters and electricians, the guy who constantly 
According to Ohsen·er reports, now the fixes O'Shaughnessy Hall's broken offset prin­·nt Ciovernment wants academic credit ter, the architect who designed the library's governing this Unin·rsity. Tht.· proposal elevator system, the bricklayers who will con­a practical prohlcm. The Academic strul"l Theology's new building, and the 
(7.1 -7.-4. and 17.1 -23.1 passim) maniacs who sweep snow from the parking intimate otTasionally. that there is some lots after evt"rybody has already parked. 

P. 0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 ( 219) 239-5303 
The Ohs£>rl'£>r is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l'ni· versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It dot·s not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curatdy and as ohjel'!ivdy as possihle. t:nsignt·d editorials represent tht· opinon of a majority oftht· Editorial Board. Commentaries, ktters-. and the Inside Column present the views ofthdr authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and tht· fret· expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief........................... _ ...David Dziedzic Managing Editor...._..................Margaret Fosmoe ExecutiveEditor...u ............................Paul McGinn News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide News Editor....... -............................Mark Worscheh SaintMary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor ...... -.................... Aw:Michacl SuUivan Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor.... -.............. -......................Scott Bower 
Depat1mentManagers 
Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen Contmller...............................................Alex Szilva~ Advertising Manager.........................Jeanie Poole Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto Systems Managt>r ...........................Kevin Williams 
fA. 
Founded November 3,1966. 

------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
1 

Thursday, February 9, 1984-page 7




Sports Briefs 
Lifesaving/Water Safety Instructor Courses will Interhall wrestling tournament entries are due be offered at the Rockne Pool at the following times: Lifesaving -tomorrow, Feb. 10 at the NVA office. Halls may register as teams, and 9:10-9:45, 10:15-10:50, 11:20-11:50, and 1:20-1:55 on Mondays, contestants will be notified of date and time of tourney. Weight Wednesdays and Fridays, 11:05-12:05, 1:20-2:20 on Tuesdays and 
classeswillbe 123,130,137,145,152,160,167, 177,andunlimited Thursdays, and 12-3 on Saturday beginning Jan. 21. Water Safety -The Obseroer 
Instructor classes will be held from 9 am. to noon. There will be a charge of S6 for materials for lifesaving classes and a S20 charge for Water Safety materials. For more information, call Brother Louis Cheerleaderswishing to try out for the 1984-85 squad 
Hurcik, C.S.C., at 239-6321.-The Observer must attend a meeting on February 27 at 7 p.m. in Lafortune. The captain ofnext year's tean will be Bill Thallemer. Call him for more details. -The Obseroer 
A fitness screening will be offered on February 16 by NVA and the Century Club. The event will be conducted by the St. The Notre Dame-Detroit women's basketball Joseph Sportsmed/Health Awareness Program. The cost is Sl 5, game on Tuesday, February 14, has been designated as "Dorm 
which includes tests of cardiovascular fitness, blood pressure Night" by the athletic department. The dorm which bas the greatest response to exercise, muscular strength, symmetry, flexibility, and turnout (by percentage of students in the dorm) will be awarded body composition. You must apply for the program in person at the SIOO.OO worth of Godfather's Pizza for a dorm pizza party. If you NV A office by today. Call 2 39-6690 or 239-6100 for more details. -want to see more information, ask your R.A. who should have 
The Obseroer 
received a flyer in the mail -The Obseroer 
A cross-country skiingmoonlighter is scheduled The Off-Campus Hockey Team will have 
for tonight on the Burke golf course. Skiers will be allowed on the practice on Sunday, Feb. 12 at 10:15. The next game will be Monday course anytime from 7-10 p.m. Ski rental is Sl. -TheObserver the 13th, so be there. -The Obseroer 
19MWINTER OLYMPICS SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Thursday, Feb. 9 
3 am. -women's 10K cross country 
3:30 am. -women's 1,500­
meter speed skating 6 am. -men's downhill 8 am. -men's and women's luge 
Ice Hockey 
7 am. -Poland vs. West Ger­many 
7:30 am. -USSR vs. Italy 10:30·am. -Sweden vs. Yugos­
lavia 11 am. -Canada vs. Austria 2 p.m. -Finland vs. Norway 
2:30 p.m. -United States vs. Czechoslovakia 

Tbe Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third ftoor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts cbssified advenising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Moo1ay through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third ftoor ofHaggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next­
lay classifieds is 3 p.m. AU classifieds must be prepaid, either in person.
Classifieds ~ by mail Charge is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 
FOUND A SET OF KEYS IN STEPAN  For  Sale  -­ New  LEATHER  JACKET  NEED  2-4  DEPAUL  G.A.  TICKETS.  BUY  It's a Funky Reggae P11rty, and l's  
NOTICES  I·  CENTER ON 2-5. CAllJEFF at 1194 TO CLAIM THEM.  Never used Racmg style Handmade Can be used in rain or snow Priced to sell last  FAMILY C~ Ill FROM CHICAGO­WILL PAY GOOO MONEY. PLEASE  OBSERVER VAlENTINES  Saturday Night Chataqua, 9-1,$1.  
TYPING SERVICE 2n-ro45  FOUND: BLUE FOI.DUP CHAIR IN S. QUAD CAI.l5451 MUST IDENTlFY.  call Ralaet x3248  CALLJOHNAT1761.  Karen. Does she like roses? Nudge. nudge, wink. wink, say no more.  Joe Simmons, Have a nice day! Until we meet, your Secret Sweetheart  
WILL PICK UP & DELIVER EXPERT TYPIST 2n-6534 AFTER 5:30  Found: A gold bracelet inbetween Flanner and P.W. on Salurday Ntght. To Claim  TICKETS  PERSONALS  JOHNNY GOT HIS GUN. Feb. 8 & 9 engineering aud., 7:00 & 9:15 admission  MISSING ONE GOLD SIGNET RING (LETTER T·) ONE GOLD 1930 NOTRE  
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­HERS! Surra up but our pric:ell..-en't. From just $109.00 -spend 7 tun-filled days In eunny Florida. Call for you.-lf or organize a small group and tnMII FREEl Great for clubs, tool Call LUV  please call Ellen a1 4558 I FOUND THE HEAD OF A CAStO WATCH IN FARLEY HALL IS IT YOURS? IF SO CAJ..l ME AT 4263 AND TELL ME WHERE YOU LOST IT.  NEED GA'S FOR DEPAUL OR MAR­QUETTE CAI.l8057 I NEED DE PAUL TIX"S. WILL EX­CHANGE MARQUETTE TJx·s OR CASH. CAllJOEL AT 1570  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.• ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. LOVE IS-FLOWERS ON VAt..ENTINE'S DAY! REGIIIA'S VALENTlNE CARNAllON  $1. The Gary Hart Campaign Needs Your Help ! Anyone interested in helping with Hart·s Mock Convention Organization call 2e3-1no  DAME CLASS RING WITH DARK BLUE SAPPHIRE. INSIDE INSCRIPTION: H.E. MANSKE P.H.B. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT MIKE AT 283-1573. 4;6 CAVANAUGH HALL REWARD OF­FERED NO QUESTIONS ASKED  
TOURS (800) 368-2006, ask tor An­nette. CRANSTON FOR PRESIDENT Anyone Interested In campaigning tor Alan Cranston In the upcoming Democratic  lost!! 18-20" burgundy beaded necklare of greal sentmental value lost some­where between O'Shag and South Dining Hall on tuesday a1 noon. ~ found please call Be!h a1 283-6747 or 2e:Hi745  NEED MARQUETTE TIX CHRIS 8229 Need many Marquette tix $$call Sue 284· 5173  SALE BUY FOR A LOVER OR THAT SPECIAL FRIEND1 ORDER FEB 5-9 4:3J-6PM AT SMC DINING HAll CARNATIONS .75 EA. DELIVERED FEB  MARDI GRAS t-5hirt design to Student Activities by Fri! TALENT! TALENT! TALENT! B-P Spirit Week continues as tontght the wild women ol Breen-Phillips will perform  SENIOR CLASS T-sHIRTS ON SALE NOW! GET THEM AT THE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE (1.5 LAFORTUNE) ON MONDAY, FEB. 13 THRU TO THURS. FEB. 16 FROM 1:00 TO 4:00. ALSO AVAILABLE FROOM YOUR DORM  
primaries c-Terry at 8764 CRANSTON FOR PRESIDENT wHicH"-liJEPA"FiTM'EiN:r c:AN ·ooiiST SUPREMACY IN GRAPHIC DESIGN?  Lost-Diamond and sapphire ring. Belonged to Grandma. Greal sentimental value. If Ioong please call 2114-4437. Reward  Need 4 DePaul tix(stu. or GA) Pete 1224 NEED 2 DEPAUL GA·s. Call Kathy at 2966.  14 iiiii.iiiin1eriney·;;o;;;;;··.............. 1lle han:ier!hey fall  in their annual variety show. Come to the Nazz tonight at 9 and catch the spirrt. Calch the spirit while rt lasts and cash in on the tun. Friday i$ Kiss a 8-P Girl day  REPS. REMEMBER YOUR SENK)R YEARI SENIOR SKATING PARTY SATURDAY NIGHT FROII10:30TO 12:30. COST IS  
ARCHITECTURE OR ART? Collegiale Jazz F;tival T-Shirt & Logo Contest! Deadline, Friday. Feb. 10. Submit entrieS  VISITING FRIEND GOT WELCOME THURS  COLD PM  ND AT  Earn A LOT ol $$. I need 2or 3 DEPAUL GAs. Call Chris 3417.  One and all  and the women will·be running loose and wild so catch them while you can. Kiss lhe most. and besides the inner satisfaction,  FREE AND CORBY'S AFTER SKATING FOR BEVERAGES.  THE  
to S.U. qfice. ......... J ··························· .············ C.J.F. LOOo CONTTl:ST-ARKIES: EN­TER IF YOU DAREIII1 _....----------­ARTISTSIII1 Don1 EVEN think you're going to win that compalltlon ...$25 Ia  RAFFERTY8-MISSING WOMANS GREY WOOL COAT-CALL4420 MISSING ONE GOLD SIGNET RING (LETTER ·-r) ONE GOLD 1930 CLASS RING WITH DARK BLUE SAPPHIRE, INSIDE INSCRIP-TION: H.E. MANSKE  $$$ I need 3 DePaul-! Call Laura x8130 $$$ ····················································· HELP!!!IN DIRE NEED OF DE PAUL TIX. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 3540.  until the philosophy thai holds one race superiorand anotherinferioris totally and pennanently discredited and abandoned and until there's no longer Wrst class and second class of any na#on then everywhere there·s war  win a prize. ·My heart Belongs to B-P" and now yours can too! . Snoogie -I am looking forward to a good squinch, or naugleburger or both this weekend! I love you, Grundie  SENIOR CLASS VALENTINES COCK­TAIL PARTY HAS BEEN CHANGED TO THURS. FEB. 16. COME PARTY AT THE MONOGRAM ROOM FOR $3.00, TICKETS STTHE DOOR. SENK>RSI COCKTAIL PARTY HAS  
at stake! At q.-beer night. that'd make quite a partyll Signed. your lrlends In Archllacture-.  P.H.B. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT MIKE AT 283-1573. 456 CAVANAUGH HAll REWARD OFFERED NO QUEs­TIONS ASKED  I'm DYING of a terminal cold and have yet to see DEPAUL-NO LIVE. Need tickets to complete my life. ED -8938  W1UJNG TO WORK FOR SMCIJ FRANKS KOLLMAN STRAZZABOSCO  Boystown; P.D, Padre, Tripod. louser. Igor, Dudley. Elroy. Thanks for the Great Weekend. h was good for us. was rt good for you? Gem, George, Pony. Smurl. Joe.  BEEN MOVED TO THURSDAY, FEB. 16. TICKETS AT DOOR OF MONOGRAM ROOM 9:00 TO 2:00  
"CAMPUS REP POSITION. Earn com­ STUDENT BODY OFACERS  FREE  ENEMAS?  NO.  ITS  THE  
mtssions  and  FREE TRIPS promotJng  FOUND:  ONE  PAIR  OF  HOCKEY  Wanted 4 Marquette G.A's-Call Tom at  VOTETODAY-HCC  RHTHYM  METHODS!  DANCE  BAND  
high quality Spring Break trips to Colorado. Daytona Beach and South Padre Island. Call Summrt Tours 800­325-0439 .. TONIGHT! John Glenn campaign or­gamzalional meellng. LaFortune nel<l to  GLOVES AT THE ICE ARENA ON MON­DAY NIGHT. CAll 277-6464 TO IDEN­TIFY. LOST-MEN·s DRESS LEATHER GLOVES. LEFT EITHER IN SMC LIBRARY OR IN LEMAN·s LOBBY ON  3039 IN DIRE NEED OF 3 STUDENT OR GA TIXFORDEPAULGAME. WILLPAYBIG BUCKS CALL SCOTT 3271 I NEED DePAUL TIX CALL 804t6.  OBSERVER V~ESK>BSERVER VAI..ENntESI OBSERVER VAUBfnNESI OBSERVER VAUBNnNESI OBSERVER  To: Rollin Williams Hughs Ill and Last ... Your friend in France and your two favorile SMC Chicks Wih you a Great 201h and hope you get a Blond Knock-Out to help you Celebrale. Have Fun, Hope you remember rt(SH) Love. Us  FOR HIRE. DAVE 3207 ROGER 3103 DEAR CARUTA 5 WEEKS TO GO HOPE FRANCE WAS FUN LOVE YOU SO MUCH JOHN THIS IS TO SAY THANKS TO ALL WHO  
Ltttle Theatre. 7 P.M. We need you!  FEB. 7. IF YOU WHEREABOUTS,  KNOW CALL  OF THEIR 283-1596.  NEED 4 DEPAUL GA'S. FAMILY HAS  VA~NESI VALENTlNESI  OBSERVER  DEAR MARCIE BECKY & MOLLY: TO  HELPED MAKE MY 20TH BIRTHDAY THE BEST EVER YOU GUYS ARE THE  
rMBACKll  THANKS.  NEVER SEEN AN ND BASKETBALL  FORGIVE AND FORGET IS INFINITELY  BEST! AND A SPECIAL THANKS TO MY  
\ LOST/FOUND I  FOR RENT  GAME. WILLING TO PAY BIG$$$. TOM 6970 . Need DePaul GA·s call John aler 7pm collect (312)998-8384  Marinllesdo I with more mellowness! Marinltes do I with more mellowness! Marlnltesdo II with more mellowness!  MORE MATURE THAN TO CARRY ON A CHILDISH VERBAL SPAT VIA THE PERSONALS. BECAUSE WE DONT KNOW YOU THIS IS THE ONLY WAY TO SEND OUR MESSSAGE TO YOU. ON BEHALF OF OUR FRIEND GRANT  BROTHER DAVE. MY ROOMIE LIZ, ANNE. PATIY. MARCI. AND MOLLY. I LOVE VA--THANKS A MILLION'! SHARON (O.W.) CLEVELAND CLUB MEETING THIS  
LOST: One gray and while ttun-stnped long sleeve shirt with a small hole on the top left shoulder. h was accidentally put in someone·s laundry by St. Michael·s Laundry ServiCe before Christmas. If you  -one male room...-. Rent $80 per rnontiL One mile north of campus. Cai1Tomat2n-4851. AVAILABLE NOW-Efficiency apartment  Dad needs 2 DePaul GA's. W/trade my DePaul & Marquette student & $ for 2 De Paul GA·s .. Call John 6216. Need 2 stu. tix for the Marquette game. Call1388  Robin, Bob, Nick, ZH. Ted, JT, Lynn, AB,B ... Oh. lo be a1 Kirl<wood. now that spring  WE ARE COMPELLED TO SUBMIT A REBUTTAL TO YOUR PREVIOUS PUBLIC HARANGUES. GRANT IS A SWEET HARMLESS LOVABLE CHARACTER. TO ATTRIBUTE VIL­LAINOUS INTENT TO HIS INNOCUOUS  THURS. FEB 9, AT 7 PM IN THE LITTLE THEATER (LA FORTUNE). IF THIS TOWN IS YOUR TOWN, BE THERE! TO SMCS WHO TOOK BLUE FOLDUP CHAIR WE NOTICED YOU TOOK THE  
have rt, please return to Jtm at X1101.  near Notre Dame on busline. 255-8505.  I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S CALL BOB AT  tshere.  ACTIONS IS ONLY TO REVEAL YOUR PERSONAL PARANOIA OF THE ND  BIGGEST AND WIDEST CHAIR POS. SIBLE  
LOST. One crimson-colored warm-up jacket wrth the word ·Harvard on 1he back. LAST SEEN in the ACC on 1/21/84. Reward offered. Please call GREG AT 2n-5062. FOUND ON 1/30 -BLUE CAP BE­TWEEN LIBRARY & BP. CALL SYLVIA  ONE BORM.DEN.BATH.KTCHN-10MIN TO ND$120 MONTH232-7173 WANTED  7820 HAVE CASH -NEED MARQUETTE TICKETS CAll MATT x1228 Need 2 DePaul tix . Call John x1238 Need Marquette fix. Call Jay at 283-6756  . .or Heavenly ... or Aspen .. orParkCly .. or Steamboat ... or anywhete wilh sun, snow, andsome verocat ..  DATING SYNDROME. GRANT HAS MADE NUMEROUS ATTEMPTS TO GAIN YOUR FORGIVENESS. WHY CONTINUE THESE SENSELESS AT­TACKS? SIGNED TWO FRIENDS FROMP.E. yo DIOO HAPPY BIRTHDAY FROM DIL­ ATTENTlONIIAND HERE WE GO AGAIN-DO YOU HAVE A PARTY, SYR OR FORilAL THAT YOU NEED THE MUSIC SUPPUED FOR??? THEN CALL WSND--FOR ONE LOW PRICE YOU TOO CAN HAVE A PROFEs­SIONAL OJ, ENGINEER, AND ALL THE  
6714.  LON BIG RED FRESHMAN POUND  MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEIII CALL  
RIDERS  Needed  to  Ann  Arbor  this  NEED 2 Depaul tickets. W~l pay$$$. Call  Hey you Whrtehouse  GROGS  REGIIIALD DANIEL AT 239-7425 OR  
WHOEVER FOUND THE SHARP CAL­ Weekend Feb. 10 -12. Call Maria al 284­ 2n-6392  283-1153. THE DATES ARE ALLING  
CULATOR IN THE BUSINESS BUILD­ING. PLEASE CAll DAN AT 3670  4094  IIIEED DEPAUL TIX5.272-Q06  "The Russians Tonight at 7 in Hayes­Healy Aud. Followed by, EVERYTHING  NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI THIS WEEK9ro? CALL EMILE X3770  UP QUICK SO CALL TODAYIIIIII WSND PARTY REIIO~THE BEST  
LOST: The TORSO ol our mannequin, answers to Blanche was stolen !rom 2nd l1oor Stanford the night ol the Tacky Party (1/27) Anyone wrth info. PLEASE  FOR SALE  -·--·-·---· NEED TIX FOR ZZ TOP! 8238. NOTHING FANCY! I NEED 2 DEPAUL TIX.(STU or GA) CAll GARY AT 8713.  YOU WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT THE SOVIET UNION, BUTWERE AFRAID TO ASK Will Dr. LBon Twarog from Ohio State.  ST. JUDE 0 Holy Saint Jude. Apostle and Martyr. great in virtue and nch in miracles, near Kinsman ol Jesus Christ. Faithful inter­ EQUIPMENT, THE BEST PRODIJC. TION ATTHE BEST PRICEIII n·s a RIP-OFF!!!  
call 28-4-5418. Greal sentunental value.  Need ZZ Top 1ickets call John-8830  cessor of all who invoke your special  h.s a RIP-<FF !!!  
Reward  Want to knowwhal·s really going on in the  NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S. PLEASE CALL  patronage in time of need, to you I have  
A blue Addidas book bag was lost at the South Dintng Hall on 2/2. If found pleasse call Chuck at 1972.  Catholic Church? Read NATIONA!. CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper ol the U.S. Ctuch. For sub­scnpiiOO lfllormalion and a free sample  SHIRLEY AT239-5303. NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Keith 1180  WANTEO: RIDE OR RIDERS TO RICH­MOND/DC AREA FOR THIS WEEKEND. LEAVE 2/9.RETURN 2/12. CALL JEFF 8854.  recourse !rom the depth ol my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power, to come to my assist~­Help me in my present and urgent peti­ At ND/SMC a crime Iscommitted every houri during RIP-OFF WEEK on WSND. Almost $1000 worth ol free stuff to you! Just listen !rom 4-10:00 P.M. Feb 12-18.  
copy, ca11 Paul a1 2n-4851.  ----··················································  tion. In return I promise to make your  You can·t afford not to!  
LOST: Set ol keys on three nngs and a toenail cltpper were lost Friday. Jan. 21. 1984 at Corby Bar. Please call 234-7256. Very much needed.  SPRINGSTEEN ON VIDEO BOTH THE RIVER AND BORN TO RUN TOURS CAI.l233-1476 .... ....... . ............  Need 2 DePaul G.A. nx $$ call 284-283 Need 2Depaul GA·s $ Call284-<1283. U.ol Illinois alter the DePaul game? Hyou  I NEED DePAUL TIX. CALL 8046 TAKE THE GOLD MEDAL! VOTE: MANIONSBP  name known and cause you to be invoked. Say 3 Our Fathers, 3 Hail Marys. and 3 Glorias lor 9 days. Publication must be promised. Saint Jude pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Amen. This  Season tickets to S:U. movies. FREE!!! WSND Rip-Off Week. NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS  
FOUND:  MAN'S  TIMEX  WATCH  IN  FOR  SALE:  PIONEER  TURNTABLE  get me 1here rll spit gas and provide TIX  HARTVPM  Novena has never been know to Jail -I  WEEKEND.  
PSYCH.  BLDG.  LAST  WEEK.  CALL  AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST"OJil~ f~1 lllirttfiOWA Sunday. Pal 272-9087  .  KARNATZVPSA  have had my request granted.  Nearing cle_.rlon tactics. Call Greg  
LUCY AT1340TOIDENTIFY.  FER CAI.l8046  NEED 2 DEPAUL STU TIX.. CALL KEN  FEB 9 7~ IN HAGGAR THE TRADITION CONTINUES ...  BUY  at 8284 to save me from frostbite.  
LOST: A set ol keys a1 Stepan Center on Sunday, Feb.5. PLEASE call 7559 d you find them. Greal sentimental and  Two round lrlp plane lickels lor Spring Break Chicago to Tampa. In-eludes nde to and !rom Chicago. Make offer. Call  AT234-0283 HELP!!!!! I need 3 G.A.s for the Marquette  AAAn stock steals food. DAN STOCK  OBSERVER VALENTINES  DELTA NU DELTA; as ROCK 105 lades into history, will you continue the Punk  
monetary value  548501'5484.  Game. Call3211 PLEASE'  STEALS FOOD. DAN STOCK STEALS  BEATL£S ROCK!I  Rasta tradrtion?  


The Observer Thursday, February 9, 1,~~4-page' 8 
Seeond leading scorer 
NBA Standin·gs
Parsons setting and getting goals 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
Sports Writer 
Adam Parsons came to Notre 
Dame four years ago to get an educa­
tion. But he's al'io getting goals for 
the hockey team. 
Parsons is the second leading 
scorer on the team, already having 
netted 18 goals and 26 assists this 
season, but says modestly, "I'm 
doing all right." 
He still has five games plus the 
Central States Collegiate Hockey 
League tournament left to increase 
those stats. 
The CSCHL is the third league Par­
sons has played in with the Irish.• 
"First we played in the Western Col­
legiate Hockey Association," Par­
sons says. "That was good. We flew 
everywhere. It was also the best 
competition." 
The next league for Parsons was 
the Central Collegiate Hockey As­
sociation. "It wasn't that bad, but we 
had to take the bus a lot," he says. 
Parsons' sophomore year had its share of ups (winning the Great Lakes Invitational Tournament in Detroit) and downs (beating Bowling Green in the semi-finals oJ the CCHA Tournament, only to watch Bowling Green go to the NCAA Tournament while the Irish stayed home). But Parsons had a goal in that upset victory over Bowling Green. 
"As seniors we have seen a lot of changes through the years," he says. "The biggest disappointment wa~ the change to club. 
"The change hasn't been as bad as I thought it would be. Lefty (Smith) has made it fun. We take it seriously, 

PRICES GOOD THRU February 11,1984 
...~.­
We accept student Check with N.D.ID 
WINES 
Gallo Premiums 

4.99
Jllter 
Enriko White Sparkling Wine 

2.99
750ml 
FRIDAY ONLY 2-10-84 
GALLO YARIETALS 
1.5 l. 
LIMIT 1 PER 

ROSE'S PINA COLADA MIX JustAdd 
Rum 99• 
•25oz 

although pressure-wise, this year has 
been more relaxed." 
Coming into the season Parsons had goals for himselfand the team. " I wanted to go undefeated to show the administration," he says. "I wanted to do the best I could per­sonally. I didn't have any particular numbers I was trying for. 
"We, as seniors, wanted to go back to varsity just as badly as the rest of the team. I'm glad it's going back. I have a lot offriends on the team." 
Parsons sees his role on the team 

as one of responsibility. "As seniors 
we try to lead by example both on 
and off the ice," he says. "We're 
supposed to be more experienced 
and depended upon. I always looked 
up to the seniors and now I accept 
that role." 
Parsons hopes to win the rest of 

the season's games and the CSCHL 
tournament. 
After that his plans aren't so definite. "I'd like to try to play pro hockey, If not I'll try to ftnd a real job," he says. "Lefty has talked about (my) possibly playing in Europe. I'd like to try out for an NHL club and 

during the Sophomore Literary Festival 
Feb 27 -March 3 

~ 
. 
.. 

For more Information, 
THURSDAY ONLY 2-9-14 
MILLER LITE ~ 
CASE 
J29 II 
UMIT 1 PO PERSON 
FRIDAY ONlY 2-10-14 
BUDWEISER ~~~~~~• 
CASE 

LIMIT 1 PER PERSON 
SATURDAY ONLY 2-11-84 
'MILLER 
CASE 
Budweiser 

29.99 2!a~ Style
HALF qBL 

Lite 29:99 . ,Qid ~!lwaukee 24.99
HaiiBBl 
Michelob 

36.99 Lite 23.99
HALF BBL 

play in the minors to work my way 
up. 

"I just don't want to get a job and 
wonder five years from now if I 
could have made it. If I try out at 
least I can say I tried." 

In his four years at Notre Illme, 
Parsons admits that he has matured, 
having gotten used to the freedom of 
college. "I don't think I could live at 
home," he comments. "Lefty has 
done some disciplinary things to me. 
I didn't like them at the time, but it 
was for my own good." 

Parsons chose Notre Dame for more than its hockey program. "I came here because ofthe education, " he says. "A lot of the schools that I talked to talked only about hockey. I wanted to go where I could play and graduate." 
Parsons has no complaints about his time at Notre Dame. "I've enjoyed myself," he says. "They say college is the best time of your life but you don't realize it until it's over. I think I've started to realize it. 
"I've got friends now that I'm going to have for the rest of my life. Sometimes coming over to the rink is :1 real pain but when you don't have it you really miss it." 
BEER 
Michelot> 
casebHis 

Budweiser 
LP 
Stroh 
lP 

Budweiser u 
case7oz 
Olympia
lP 
Pabst 
lP lT 

QUARTS Lite 8.79 Old 
Milwaukee 7.09 Budweiser 9.19 
Boston Philadelphia New York New Jersey Washington Atlanta Detroit Milwaukee Chicago Cleveland Indiana Utah Dallas  NBA Eaatem Conference Atlantic Dlvllllon w L Pet. GB 38 t1 .776 31 17 .646 6.5 28 19 .596 9 25 25 .500 13.5 22 26 .458 15.5 Central Division 28 21 .571 26 21 .553 1 27 22 .551 1 18 28 .391 8.5 16 31 .340 11 13  33  .283  13.5  
Weatem Conference Mid-at Division w L Pet. GB 30 18 .625 26 24 .520 5 Kansas City 20 28 417 10 20 29 .408 10.5 20 29 .408 10.5 20 30 .400 11  
Denver Houston San Antonio Pacific Division Los Angeles 32 16 Portland 31 20 Seattle 26 20 Golden State 22 28 Phoenix 21 27 San Diego  16  33  .667 .608 2.5 .565 5 .440 11 .438 11 .327  16.5  
Yelllerday'e Results  
Chicago 1 14, New Jersey 1 10, OT Philadelphia 1 18, Houston 107 Cleveland 119, Golden State 108  "  r  
Los Angeles 1 1 1 • Boston 1 09 Milwaukee 113, New York 103 Kansas City 1 18, San Antonio 1 10  if' ·.t·.  e  
Dallas 1 20, Denver 1 14 Portland 114, San Diego 105  !I  r  
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE  
FOR THE SUMMER  
C...., Coui'IMior Positions at·Oul8tllndlng Sports Campa  
camp WlnllukH for Bop Md Aoblndel for Girts One mile aparton 22 mile lake, ,_, "On Golden Pond" alta and the Maine coaat. Good uluiea 111d all  
tran•portatlon paid. Seek qualified' special 1m In ail areas. PERSONAL INTERVIEWS AVAILABLE AT  
CAFORTUNESTuP£NTCENTER 11M IQZfM •f,UBi. FEB. Q Si n'u ·at Pla~em•n't fflce or ust at  
"WE BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES"  

8.99 7.79 6.69 8.79 6.99 6.99 
JUST BRING IN THEIR AD. 
10( 

PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE STORE ONLY 
LIQUOR Rive Vodka 
3e99
750ml 
Kahlua 
8.99
750ml 
Jack Daniels 
7e69
750ml 
Hiram Walker 
Spearmint or Peppermint 

;.
§phnapps 4. 99 
SATURDAY ONL 2-11-13 


 
DePaul Pep Rally Tomorrow night 7:30p.m. ACC Pit Guest Speaker: Billy Packer  

THREE MINUTES TO MIDNIGHT An Exploration of the Nuclear Dilemma Sponsored by Notre Dame-St. Mary's Ground Zero and The Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) Thursday, February 9: film "The Russians" Hayes-Healy presentation followed by question & answer session with Or. Kwarog · Director of the Center for Slavic and Eastern European Studies, Ohio State University Saturday, Feb. 11 all kinds of stuff O'Shaughnessy Sunday, February 12 7:00 Center for Social Concerns· "Three Minutes to Midnight Debate: Do More Missiles Buy More Securuty" · Gov. John Gilligan (Law School) and Bernard Norling (History Department)  

Student Union Academic Commision presents  
Bis~op Thomas J. Gumbleton Where Do Women Fit in the Church?  
Monday, February 13 Library Auditorium Students, if you would like to attend a pre­lecture dinner with Bishop Gumbleton, please explain why you would like to do so in 25 words or less and submit it by 1:00 Friday (Feb. 10) to the Student Union, Second Floor Lafortune  

A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student for the 
Distinguished Student A ward is Friday, February 17 
Created and presented by the Notre Dame Alumni Association, the award recipient will be selected based on service to Notre Dame, community involvement and good academic standing. 
Nomination forms are available in the Stude.Qt Government Office in LaFortu~, the Center for Social 
ConceiJI or the Alumni Off\~~ • (201 Admin. Bldg.) 
Thursday, February 9, 1984-page 9 
Can't afford to lose 


Team ,USA not writing off Czechs 
Associated Press move on, they can't afford another they want to avenge their loss to the 
......~.by making aphone call~ 
February 14th is the big test. Show that 
special girl you're a sensitive, caring guy by 
sending the Heart-to-Heart'M Bouquet 


from your fTD® Florist. Beautiful flowers 
in a decorator tin with a sachet heart. And it's usually less than $22.50• Call or visit your FTD Florist today. Because Valentine's Day is one big test you don't want to flunk. 
Sendyourlove~tbspec~ 
care.™ 
•As rndependent retailers. Members of the FTO Flotal Network sot !hoi< own prices. Se<vice chartlOS and 
delivery may be additiOnal. ®RegiStered trademarl< of Florisls" Transworld DeliYery Associldion. 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia -Just one game into the Olympic hockey tournament, Team USA is in an all or nothing situation. After the emotion­packed gold medal performance in Lake Placid four years ago, the 1984 Olympians may not even be in medal contention this tine. 
Already 0-1, the Americans' op­ponent today is powerful Czecho­slovakia, a close runner-up to the Soviets in the World Champion­ships. 
There are six teams in each divi­sion in the hockey competition and the two that have the most points in each group will advance to the medals round. For the Americans to 



Road 
continuedfrom page 12 
game. Other front-line players will be Steve Perry ( 4. 3 ppg, 4.6 rpg) and Aundra Bell (3.9 ppg, 5.5 rpg). 
On defense, the Knights probably will play a match-up zone, and they also may employ a zone press against the Irish. 
The Irish wiJl be led once again by captain Tom Sluby. The senior swingman is averaging 16.6 points per game. 
Joining Siuby in the Notre Dame lineup will be forwards Jim Dolan and Ken Bar! tow. Health permitting, Tim Kempton will start at center, and JoJo Buchanan will be back at his point guard position. 

loss, and even a tie in any of the remammg four games would probably eliminate them from con­tention. 
Czechoslovakia entered the Olympics as the favorite in the B group. 
"They are an excellent team and they should have beaten the Soviets in the World Championships," said 
U.S. Coach Lou Vairo, whose team 
dropped  its  opener  Tuesday  to  
Canada 4-2.  
Canada  lost two  players  in  an  

eligibility dispute spurred by Fin­land, but blamed on the Americans, and that turned out to be an in­centive in the first game. The Czec­hoslovaks also have an incentive ­
Last Monday, Kempton sat out the game against Vermont with a calf in­JUry, while Buchanan was nursing tendinitis. The two regulars were replaced in Monday's lineup by Donald Royal and Joe Howard, both ofwhom should see a fair amount of playing time tonight. 
Another player who has been playing well off the bench is sopho­moreJoseph Price, who is averaging 
7.1 points per game. 
According to Phelps, there are two things Notre Dame must do to stop the Knights. 
"We just have to do the things we 
didn't do on the road last weekend U.S. in the 1980 Olympics. 
"We are a new team," said Ludek Bukac, coach of Czechslovakia. "We are not the same team that lost in 1980. 
"The Americans have a good team. They did not play their best against Canada. We expect them to play their best against us." 
.Czechoslovakia belted Norway 
I 0-4 Tuesday in its first game. 
In other games today, Canada plays Austria, the Soviet Union takes on Italy, Poland plays West Ger­many, Finland faces Norway and Sweden opposes Yugoslavia. The Soviets, West Germans, Finns and Swedes also won the openers. 
(at South Carolina)," Phelps says, "which are, one, rebound and get of­fensive rebounds, and, two, get the reversals and penetration and get it inside." 
Another thing the Irish probably will try to do is shut down Battle. Notre Dame's defense, which is ranked second in the nation, already has shut down several high-scoring players this year. 
Most of those fme defensive per­formances have come at the ACC, however, and South Carolina's Jim­my Foster showed that the Irish defense can be less successful on the road. Foster had 19 points in last Saturday's game. 
Phelps is not too concerned that his players will relax against the Knights. 
"Knowing that a lot ofthese guys are coming back home (Kempton and Dolan)," he says, "and that we lost back there last year to Fordham, we will be ready to play." 


The Observer Thursday, February 9,j984 -page I 0 Spirit and dedication 

Junior Suess handles her roles well 
By DAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 

The I 9H3-84 basketball season has been tough on Saint Mary's, tes­ting the players' efforts on and at­titudes off the court. The Belles have struggled to just four wins in seven­teen contests, playing teams that are sometimes stronger, and always tall­er. Elaine Suess, a junior from Grand Blanc, Mich., is one player who has learned to handk the frustration. 
"It takes a lot of dedication to hang in there when you lose so much," says Suess. "We're playing teams with more experience and more talent. and that's when you just learn to do the best you can and be happy with that." 
Perhaps that dedication has developed from Suess' lifelong inter­est in sports. A co-captain and start­ing wing for the Belles (along with senior Cyndy Short), Suess played four full years ofboth basketball and softball in high school, and received athlete-of-the-year honors her senior year. Following the basketball season, she will switch gears to 
assume her position on the Saint Mary's varsity softball team. 
"I can't imagine not playing bas­ketball," she says. "Being involved in sports means missing out on other aspects of the college experience, hut that's how important basketball is to me." 
Despite the awkwardness of having to play out ofposition, as well as the frustration of losing many games, Suess is in the midst ofan out­standing season. She has scored in 
The Irish women's basketball team got just what It didn't need double figures in almost every con­after tl heartbreaking loss to Michigan State last Friday: another test, and recently was named to the tough defeat, this time by a 61-59 count at tbe hands of11/lnols SMC Roundball Classic all­State last night. Larry Burke's story on page 12. tournament team. Last season Suess 
ATTENTION TAXPAYERS! A new law requiring partial with­holding of taxes on interest and diVidend 1ncome will take effect July 1, 1983. 
If you have an lnterest-earnln!f 
account or receive dividend pay­ments, this law will affect you! This is nor a new tax. Like with· 
holding on salary checks, it 
merely chang':ls the way taxes 
are collected. 
Exemptions are available lor 
older Americans, lower income 
individuals and those with small 
savings accounts. To see if you 
qualify, contact your bank, finan­
cial institution or the Internal 
Revenue Service in your area. 

EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. 
ANDOPENTHEDOORTOATOP 
ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
' ' 
HO\\ man\' corporatiOns \\·auld ht.~ w1lhng to pay ~·au overSIOOO a month dunn)! vuur IUOIUr ctnd sen1or ."E-ars jiJSt so you'd join the company :ll!t.•r .Qr~.uluatwn·' l'ndrr a spf'CJal .'\iiv~· pro~?rnm Wt".rc> doing just that. Its c;lill'c.J thE' \'uclear Propuls1on Officer Cand!d&He·Collegc Pro~ram. -\nd untlrr lt. \'au·u not onl" ~rt grP<Jt pa" dunng vour Jt.lnior and ~~mvr \"~arc.. b'ut nlwr ~rn(fuatlon you'll rl:-ce1ve a ~;ear of valuable ~raduatf'·ll'\'CI traming that IS not B\'BI~able from any other ~mplo_ver. 
II \OU .lrl' a IUmor or ~cnaor maJOTin~ in math, engineenng or ·phy!o.ICUI C:.Cil'M'l'"· hnd out mar~ today. And let your career pay o~f whde ~:,ull 1n collcg(' Fvr more mformN10n. call the !\aval Management Programs Off1ce a<. 
Call Toll Free 1-800-382-9782 
Navy Representative will be on campus March 6-8, 1984 at the Placement Office 
A pubhc serv1ce message from the Internal Revenue Serv1ce 


NEW SCHEDULE IN EFFECT 
Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to t:l from Chicago's O'Hare 
ARRIVE ARRIVE NOTRE MICHIANA 
LEAVE LEAVE 
MICHIANA NOTRE 

...... [I<'
•-t 

REGIONAL DAME BUS AIRPORT 
DAME REGIONAL 
AIRPORT BUS SHELTER SOUTH BEND 
LEAVEARRIVE 

SOUTH BEND SHELTER 4:25 a.m. 4:45a.m. 
O'HAREO'HARE 11:50 a.m. 12:05 p.m.

8:35a.m. 6:25 a.m 6:45a.m. 
6:DO a.m. 

2:00p.m 2:15p.m 8:25 a.m. 8:45a.m. 
10:45a.m.
8:00a.m. 
4:10p.m. 4:25 p.m
12:55 p.m.
10:00 a.m. 

6:20 p.m. 6:35 p.m 12:25 pm 12:45pm. 
3:05p.m.

10:25 a.m. 10:45 a.m. 
12:00 p.m. 

8:30 p.m 8:45 p.m. 2:25 pm 2:45p.m. 
5:15p.m.
2:00p.m. 
10:40 p.m 10:55 p.m
7:25p.m.
4:00p.m. 
12:50 a.m 1:05 a.m.
9:35p.m.
6:00p.m.

4:25 p m. 4:45p.m. 
11:45p.m. 

3:00a.m. 3:15a.m. SOUTH BEND ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 30. 1983 CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. FOR RESERVATIONS 
8:00p.m.

6:25 p.m 6:45 p.m 
(119) 674-6993 OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT /'$1"  
I ~ I  • 1 • •.,,. ':,.  .  "1 I  I  t  t  f  f  ~  -f  I t  • I  t  t. I  I  I  t  I  1 1 '  1 \  . 1 '  '  t .  

was named to tournament teams in produced. In evaluating hc:r position both Green Bay, Wis., and Hanover. as a co-captain, Suess seeks to estab­Ind. Furthermore, she has played on lish communication not only among the team as not only a wing, but also team members. hut between coach as a point guard and forward. and players as well. 
"It's tough playing out of posi­"I'm very happy with Rouse," she tion," she admits. "You're forced to says of the second-year coach. "Jk's score and. rebound against players implemented a lot of smart tactics, who are much taller, and mon· used and has n·ally got us moving. lie to the position. But as everyone on knows the game, and he's looking this team knows, with our height ahead to future teams at tht· same problem o we have been forced to time. play a somewhat modified offense." "I try and provide some spirit and 
Suess is favorable of Mike Rouse's communication among the players," coaching alternatives, however. At she continues. "We did a lot of S-6, she has taken on a demanding talking on my high school team. and task at the wing position and has I guess I'm just used to that." 

Women 
continuedfrom page 11 
steal to put Illinois State back up by five. 
It looked like lights out for the Irish, but Dougherty still had some magic left. The junior guard quickly hit a short jumper, then followed an Illinois State turnover with an off­balance ten-footer to bring the Irish back within one at 60-59. 
On the ensuing Redbird posses­sion, Dougherty quickly fouled Tur­ner, who went to the line to shoot one and one with 17 seconds remaining. Turner hit both, hut a Redbird lane violation nullified the second shot and gave the Irish a chance to play for overtime. 
Dougherty drove the lane, but ran into heavy traffic and the hall deflected off to the right side to Bas­ford. The sophomore guard got off a hurried 20-foot shot that bounced off the side of the rim as the buzzer sounded, signaling another heartbreaking defeat for the Irish. 
Dougherty, who for the second 
consecutive game finished with a 
team-high 19 points, cited some 
positive factors in Notre Dame's per­
formance. 
"Sometimes when we're in a close 
game like this one we'll justroll over 
and die. Tonight, we came Ick well, 
even though we were dow by five points with only 34 second left. We showed a lot 'f>f confidenn in com­ing hack, and we had a grc chance to win. But they (Illinois St· te) did a good job defensively on the la.~t 
play." 
Nor are the Irish, now H-12, ready to roll over and die this season, according to Dougherty. 
"We're hungry for the nex t game (Villanova comes to the ACC on Saturday). We're not going to give up on ourselves. We really could've won tonight, but we'll still turn things around. Once we win that first really close game, things will start falling our way." 
They certainly deserve it after coming up empty last night. 

CELEBRATE ST. PATS EARLY••• AN IRISH EVENING with comedia.. Hal Roach 
and the Paddy Noonan Band 
Mon. Feb. 13th Washington Hall 8-JOPM Tue. Feb. 14th O'Laughlin Auditorium (SMC) 8-JOPM 
Tickets $7.00 General admission at S. U. Ticket Office $5.00 with SMC/ND JD or O'Laughlin 
(!) It 4f Jlt
..

I 
FEB. 13 CHANCE TO DANCE
l, (After the show FREE with ticket stub) 
~lllj  12PM Ch•ataaqaa  
,  Drawing  for dinner for 2 at Senor KeUy'•  
!II  Ke~  oar  I  

r---------------------------~~ 
Enjoy Barclay's 2nd Annual 
PRIME RIB 



FEAST 
For a limited time you 
can enjoy our stan­

SAVE 52 
dard cut of succulent prime rib, a boHom­less tureen of soup, corn bread and your choice of baked potato, home fries or rice mason. 
OUR REGULAR MENU IS ALSO AVAILABLE 
Limit two dinners per coupon May not be used with other coupons or advertised specials Offer expires 3/10/84 Not Valid on Sat. 

52885 U.S. 31 Nortll South Bend Ph. 272-5478 
-----------------------------~ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------------------------------­
~r_______________ 

'JI['t(Jt4tll.at~----------------------------------------T•h•u-rs•d•a•y•,F•e•b-ru•ary--•9•'•19•8•4---p•a•g•e•l-1 

Bloom County 

Mellish 

11/IIT itANDJ n A F~IEIVDlf FEI.tDAI.IIIr HE .U..tLY Jl#lf'-'N'r 
nwr Jo o"'"" 
To s~,.~£/fS. 


Guindon Richard Guindon 

Berke Breathed 


Dave& Dave 
'flAil, E1~UIIIIV SAY, ISNT IIUE IN U ~£ THAT MJ/11.1 


I ltLIEV£
fi/HUE IIU TilE THE. Att­
so, YES.
llll£1f~S HAt" ~liT. lfllflltERf 
I
\ 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 30 Of bristles 60 Bard's 8 Copter or 1 White whale 32 Dogrammar river port hunter work 61 Unctuous 9 Once 
5 Meatand 33 Procedure 62 Frighten 10 Small bill potato for effi· 63 Race 11 Less bright mixture ciency distance 12 Rapidity 
9 Spinning 37 Harem room 64 USSR 16 Decades cones 38 Pass be· mountain 
21 Dramatic

13 Unmitigated tween Italy range 
com plica· 

14 Qualified and France 65 Robert­
tion

15 Unskillful 39 Integers: 66 House 
22 Spouses

17 Monogram abbr. additions 
26 Hgt.

part: abbr. 40 Appropriate 67 Sound 
27 " ...porridge
18 Canvas moment 
in-",._
sheet 43 Hackneyed 

DOWN 28 Mohammedan
19 Brawl 45 Alert 

1 Samoan judge
20 Race-46 Happyone 

capital 29 Study hard 
(speed for 47 Bunny food 

2 Placedon 30 Inasmuch
a purpose) 

a wall 31 Give off 
23 Poet's word 

50 Tiny bit 3 Solo 33 Rip
24 Beauty 

51 Passport 4 Early 34 Single
mark 

item enough 35 Mete 25 Oscar and 52 Alarm clock 5 Harass 36 Belg. river Tony message 6 Lessen 38 Raccoon's 27 Express 58 Peninsula 7 Narrow relative approval in Egypt opening 41 Jug handle 
42 Double­cross 43 Fogand 
smoke 44 Ballgame 
recess 46 Pelts 47 Home in 
Santander 48 Spry 49 Pertaining 
to kidneys 50 Coral isle 53 Stage 
auntie 54 Wicked 
55 Novice: var. 56 -Bator 57 Correspon· 
dent Ernie 59 Exist 
Wednesday's Solution 


Campus 
•3:30 
P.M. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to Displaywriter, 115 CCMB 

•4 
p.m. -Television Workshop, With CBS Sports, Center for Social Concerns 

•4:30 
p.m. -Graduate Fellowshlp Prayer Group Meeting, Bulla House 

•7 
p.m. -Discussion, "Human Rights Discussion 

I. 
Chile: The E~perience," Stapleton Lounge 

•7 
p.m. -Cleveland Club Meeting, Little Theatre, LaFortune 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "The Russians," Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Ground Zero 

•7:30 
p.m. -Speaker, "Reflections on Political Changes in Argentina," Hector Luis, Library Lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Gate of Hell," Washington 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Public, Political and Private Faith: Options for Americans," Prof. Martin E. Marty, Sponsored by Cushwa Center, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Z. Z. Top, ACC, 12.50 per per­son 


Hall  
•7:30 p.m. ­ Presentation-DiS<:ussion,  N  uclear  
Dilemma,  Dr.Leon  Twarog,  Hayes  Healy  
Auditorium  

TV Tonight 
7p.m. 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Straight Talk 8p.m. 16 Gimme A Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 1984 Winter Olympics 34 All Creatures Great and Small 8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 9p.m. 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 34 Mystery 9:30p.m. 16 Buffalo Bill 10p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 34 Sneak Previews llp.m. 16 NewsGenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 

All Rights Reserved 
Student Union takes you to... ~~ /!!J_ Fr.LAUDERDALE -"7-?'JJ-,;;~­
7 nights at Sheraton Yankee Trader $199 Round trip Motor Coach $90 
-~------------------­
Total Package $289 Plus many more activities and ellca,rsions! For more info, caD NDSU at 239-7757 $50 DEPOSIT due FRI., Feb. 10 at SU Ticket OfficeI Record Store!!! 

Tilt Ot-tYCr/Paul Clfanolli 
Adam Parsons completes a bat trick by scoring Ibis Forest last night at the ACC, 6-4. The victory avenges unassistedgoal at 6:05 ofthe thirdperiodas the Notre the only Irish loss of the season and ups the team's Dame hockey team defeated the Foresters of Lake record to 20-1-0. 
Another heartbreaker 
ND women fall short of Illinois St. 
By lARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a heartbreaking 73-72 loss at Michigan State lao;t Friday, the lao;t thing the Notre Dame women's basketball team needed was another narrow defeat. 
lltat's exactly what they got last night, however, as the Redbirds ofIl­linois State th'l"'lartcd a spirited Irish rally and held on for a 61-59 victory at the ACC. 
lltisdefeat was especially frustrat­ing for Notre Dame because they were forced to play catch-up from the outset. In the opening minute, the teams traded bao;;kets as llliois State guard Cathy Becsely hit a 12­foot jump shot and Notre Dame's Laura Dougherty scored on a layup. But then the Redbirds' Dawn Hallet scored three straight baskets and the Irish were down 8-2. 
Junior center Mary Beth Schueth, who finished with 1 5 points, then got things going for the Irish, scoring Notre Dame's next three baskets, hut Illinois State was up to the task. Becsely hit a 15-foot jumper to put the Redbirds up I 5-8, and it looked like the beginning ofa long night for the Irish. 
Notre Dame hung tough, however, and began to chip away at the lead. With 3:09 left in the half, sophomore guard Lynn Ebben hit Carrie Bates with a pinpoint pass un­derneath. Bates, who had 1 5 points on the night, convened the layup to bring the Irish back within two, 25­23. 
The Redbirds regained their com­posure, however, and scored the last six points ofthe halfto take an eight­point lead. 
The Irish made things even more difficult for themselves in the second half, letting Illinois State score the first stx points for a 37-23 lead. 
But once again Notre Dame regrouped and staned to come back. 
At the midway point ofthe secon half, the Irish went on a 6-0 spun (four by Bates) to pull within five, 49-44. 
llte Redbirds regained command at that point, and took a seven-point lead into the final three minutes of 

Irish on the road again to try to end streak 
By PHIL WOLF 
Sports Writer 
llte Notre Dame men's basketball team ha<; definitely had its problems on the road this year. In fact, only one of the team's six losses this year has come at the Athletic and Con­V<)(."ation Center. 
Tonight the Irish will be on the road, again -this time against Rut­gers at the Byrne Meadowlands Art·na. 
Notre Dame has never won a game at tht· Meadowlands in three attempts. hut the 1 5-6 Irish have a good chance to end that streak tonight. 
'Jltc Rutgers S<:arlet Knights arc a relatively young and inexperienced team compared to last year's 23-8 squad, which played two games in the NCAA Tournament. 
Tom Young's Knights have only a 8-I I record this seao;<>ll, and his team has dropped five of its last six con­tests. 
Rutgers still poses a threat to the Irish, however, according to Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. 
"Tommy Young has always done a lot ofgood things with Rutgers' bas­ketball program," Phelps says, "to have it where it's one ofthe teams in the nation that can give anybody a battle on a given night. 
"And I'm sure tonight will be a given night for Rutgers," the Irish coach continues. "This is a game where they'll come into it with everything to gain and nothing to lose, knowing that if they win, a win like this would give them nothing hut momentum." 
Trying to gain some of that momentum will he the Knights' leading scorer, junior john Battle. Battle has averaged 20. 1 points per game this year on 51 percent shoot­ing from his guard position. 
Rutgers' other scoring threats are guard Brian Ellerbe and forward Chris Remley, both of whom are averaging almost ten points per 
See ROAD, page 9 

play. The Irish refused to quit, however. Dougherty hit a 15-footer and backcoun mate Denise Basford convened a layup off a steal, and suddenly Notre Dame was within a point at 56-55. 
Following a &dhird timeout, the visitors regained the momentum as Hallet hit a shon bank shot and guard Tammy Turner scored off a 
See WOMEN, page 10 
Thursday, February 9, 1984-page 12 

Irish avenge only loss against Lake Forest 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
The Lake Forest Foresters did not rank high on the popularity list of the Notre Dame hockey team after they handed the Irish their first loss of the sea'i<>n Jan. 25 at Lake Forest. Last night at the ACC, however, Notre Damt.· got its revenge by defeating the Foresters, 6-4. lltc win also enabled the Irish to reach the 20-win plateau as they upped their scao;on record to 20-1-0. 
Adam Parsons scored the hat trkk 
for the second game in a row to lead 
Notre Dame scorers. Bob Thebeau 
added two goal-;, and t.'o-captain 
Brent Chapman had a goal and two 
assists. 
The Irish hopes for revenge looked bleak early in tht· game as Lake Forest grabbed a quick 2-0 lead on goals hy Ken Spencer and Mike Browne. 
Notre Dame finally got on the scoreboard at 14:43 of the opening stanza as Thebeau raced in all alone on Forester goalie Stuan Frye and put a backhand over the sliding goalie's outstretched stick. 
That cut the Lake Forest lead to 2-1 just 19 seconds after it had capitalized on a powcrplay with joe Bowie of Notre Dame off for charg­ing. 
Sloppy play was a problem for the Irish through most ofthe first period as they tried to adjust to the fast, scrappy Forester style ofplay. 
"At the beginning we were having a tough time adjusting to the quick­ness of Lake Forest," said Head Coach Lefty Smith. "It takes some time to get on track after playing some of the slower club teams that we do." 
Notre Dame knotted the score at 
4:53 of the second period when Par­sons tipped home a pass from Chap­man on a two-on-one break 
Just over three minutes later Lake Forest's Steve Pinciak stole the puck from Irish goalt _.t·nderTim Lukenda and put it in the net to put the Fores­ters back in front, 3-2. 
lltebeau and Parsons hoth pickl·d up their second goals of the night to round out second period scoring and givt• Notre Dame its first kad of the night at 4-3. 
As things turned out, the lead was never to he rdinquished. Two Irish powerplay goals in the third period provided a 6-3 margin with just six minutes remaining in the game. 
Parsons completed the hat trick with an unas.o;isted goal at 6:05 put­ting Notre Dame up 5-3. Chapman then hanged a rebound off Frye's pads at I 3:4 2 for the final Irish tally of the contest. 
"Revenge is sweet," said Chap­man. "We owed this one to tht·m. Tht·y were laughing at us after the game up tht·re lao;t time." 
Tim Locke picked up the fourth Lake Forest score on a powerplay at 14:32. 
"Getting psyched up had a lot to do with the last game against them." said Mark Benning. "(Tonight) it wa<; a hard-hitting game, and you can really get into a game like that." 
Lukcnda had 21 saves in earning the victory. Frye had 42 for the losers. 
Lake Forest now drops to 9-9-1 on the season. 
lltc next action for Notre Dame is this weekend as the team travels to Penn State to take on the Nittany Lions. 



The 1984 Recruits 17 prospects sign with Gerry Faust 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 

Yesterday was the first day that high school seniors coulc;I sign lettersofintent to play football at the college of their choice and Notre Dame once again received commitments from some highly-recruited prospects. However, unlike the past three years, Gerry Faust did not rule the recruiting world. He got signatures from 1 7 players, far below the levels of previous years. He also grabbed four Parade Magazine All-Americans, a high number for most colleges, hut the lowest total of his four years ofrecruiting. 
There is no reason to panic, though. With three ex­cellent recruiting years in a row, Faust did not really need another great year. Also, while the number was lower than usual, the incoming players fill some impor-tant hOles at linebacker, defensive back, and fullback. 
Terry Andrysiak  QB  6-1  
Mark Antonietti  OUDL  6-3  
James Baugus  c  6-4  
Tim Brown  WR  6-0  
Tom Byrne  QB  6-4  
Matt Dingens  LB  6-6  
Tony Eason  P/DB  6-4  
Cedric Figaro  LB  6-3  
Darrell Gordon  LB  6-3  
Jeff Kunz  DL  6-6  
Pat Pesavento  QB  6-2  
Wesley Pritchett  LB  6-5  
Tony Roos  OUDL  6-6  
Duke St. Pierre  QB  6-2  
FrankStams  FB  6-4  
Reggie Ward  WR  5-10  
Brandy Wells  DB  6-0  

"Our freshman class for 1984 features quality instead of quantity," said Faust. "We didn't have as many im­mediate needs this year because of the number of players coming back and the depth we have at certain positions. Consequently, we had fewer individuals visit and we didn't expect a large class in terms ofnumbers." 
The four players who were honored by Parade are defensive back Brandy Wells from Montclair, N.j., ful­lback Frank Starns from Akron, Ohio, wide receiver Reggie Ward from tong Beach, Calif., and linebacker Cedric Figaro from Lafayette, La Another player to watch is linebacker Matt Dingens, the brother of cur­rent Irish lineman Greg Dingens. 
It is also possible that a few more recruits could sign 

in the upcoming days. 
175 Allen Park, Ml 
235 Chicago, IL 
225 Atlanta, GA 
170 Dallas, TX 
210 Pacifica, CA 
230 Birmingham, Ml 
185 Snohomish, WA 
235 Lafayette, LA 
190 Hillside, NJ 
230 Palm Beach Gardens, FL 
165 Joliet, IL 
210 Atlanta, GA 
245 Morris, IL 
190 Danvers, MA 
215 Akron, OH 
175 Long Beach, CA 
188 Montclair, NJ 





