Africa's food problem -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 63 
the independent ~tudcnt new~paper ~en ing notn dame and -,aint mary·., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1984 

Regan unveils new tax plan designed to simplify system 
A88ociated Press veiled now "because I know that a rate; those above that at a 35 percent 
task as difficult as overall simplifica­rate. 
WASHINGTON-The dramatic tax tion of our tax system will generate •Couples filing joint returns and 
overhaul plan now before President much debate, and I want all those in­earning less than $3,800 would pay 
Reagan would slice federal income terested in the subject to have the no tax; those earning l\3,800 to 
tax rates, end a variety ofdeductions same information we have." $31,800 would pay at a I 5 percent 
and double the personal exemption Reagan promised to pay special at­rate; those earning $3I ,80 l-1163,800 
to S2,000, Treasury Secretary tention to congressional reaction. would pay at a 25 percent rate; those 
Donald Regan said yesterday. But, at first glance, he added, "the earning about that would pay at a 35 
Regan unveiled the plan, the prod­Treasury study certainly proposes a percent rate. 
uct ofa year's work by a task force he simpler and fairer tax system with • Head-of-household taxpayers 
directed. lower rates for taxpayers, and per­earning less than $3,500 would pay 
Evt•n hc:fore yesterday's an­sonal exemptions increased to no tax; those earning $3,500 to 
nouncement, however, the presi­$2,000. It is also is something I in­1125,000 would pay at a I5 percent 
dent said that ''no decisions have sisted upon-a tax simplification and rate; those earning $25,00 I-548,000 
been made" on the proposal. not a tax increase in disguise." would pay at a 2 5 percent rate; those 
Whatever Reagan approves must lbe plan would consolidate the earning above that would pay at a 35 
still clear Congress, where several 16 existing tax brackets thusly: percent rate. 
influential members have vowed •Single taxpayers earning a Some 80 percent of taxpayers· 
that raising revenues and cutting the taxable income of less than 112,800 would see their income tax pay­
federal deficit must take precedence would pay no tax; those earning ments falling or, at the least, holding 
over tax code simplification. 52,800-519,300 would pay at a I5 steady, under Regan's nearly year­
'lbe president, in a written state­percentrate; those earningS l9,301-long effort to come up with a better 
ment, said he wanted the plan un-S38,l00 would pay at a 25 percent way to tax the nation. 
HPC discusses use of party rooms 
By SCOTT BEARBY chairpersons to exchange ideas More plans for an HPC lecture Neu•sStaff about current academic programs in series on leadership were also un­the halls and to keep hall contact veiled at last night's meeting. Due: to the increased concern with the academic commissioner's Speakers will most likely be appear­about student activity alternatives at office strong. ing periodically from February to 
Security officer BanyKantzhelpsan unidentified woman store her
Notre Dame, the Hall Presidents' Lohman also hopes to encourage April. Targeted speakers for the se­
Council is looking to find sugges­more faculty/student interaction in ries are successful Notre Dame bikefor the coming cold numths. Winter bicycle storage continues 
tions for better utilizing current hall the coming months. He mentioned alumni. todayfrrm 5 to 7pm. atGate 14 ofthe Stadium. 
social space. A committee of hall Lewis Hall's recent "Favorite Faculty 
presidents which will concentrate Party" as an example of events he 
on how such party rooms can be hopes to see more of. 
used to better satisfy student needs This Saturday Senior Bar will be 

Italian police prevent terrorist plot
was formed at last night's HPC invaded by "The BOBS", a band from meeting. San Francisco that uses no instru­A.ssoclated Press rorist organization, but based his planned to attack the embassy with a 
Council President Chris Tayback ments, only their bodies. Notre ROME -Police said yesterday they conclusion on documents the ar­truck full of dynamite -the same said, "It seems as if social space is not Dame Student Government Vice had foiled a plot by seven Lebanese, rested men were carrying. method used to such deadly effec­being used as much as it used to. We President Cathy David explained suspected ofbeing Islamic Holy War He said an eighth man was ar­tiveness In Lebanon. need to see how we can best take that the event is free of charge to all terrorists, to blow up the U.S. em­rested in Zurich, Switzerland, on The four-story embassy is tightly advantage of social space." The students. Doors will be open from 9 bassy with a dynamite-laden truck. Nov. 18 while carrying more than secured. Safeguards include cement Council did take suggestions about P.M. to 3 A.M. for dancing to music four pounds of explosives. He gave blocks in driveways, chains and spe­making social rooms more useful. In­videos. "The BOBS" will perform for Police Chief Marcello Monarca no other details on that case. cial barricades designed to keep 
cluded among these ideas was one 90 minutes, starting at 9:30 P.M. The said he believes the suspects are vehicles from crashing through which would provide Trivial Pursuit performance will include their song members ofJihad lslami, or Islamic Monarca said police arrested the entrances to the 17th century build­and other activities in a game "I Hate the Beach Boys." holy war -the shadowy terrorist seven Lebanese on Saturday at ing. At least one police van is parked room/T.V. room setting. The Marine Corps R.O.T.C. at group that has claimed responsibil­Ladispoli, a seaside resort south of in front ofthe embassy at all Urnes. 
Bruce Lohman, academic com­Notre Dame Is beginning their "Toys ity for attacks on U.S. targets in the Rome. Mike Canning, assistant press missioner for Notre Dame, spoke to for Tots" drive for needy children. Middle East. Hundreds ofAmericans He said police found on them a spokesman at the U.S. embassy, told the group on the progress ofthe Hall Spokesman Owen Murray told the have been killed in the attacks. detailed map of the U.S. embassy on The Associated Press by telephone 
Academic Chairpersons Council. Council that any toys in good condi­The police chief told a news con­fashionable Via Veneto with notes that he was not aware ofthe plot and 'Ibis new committee has met once tion can be brought to the Midship­ference he had no hard evidence to on "weak points" of the compound. the arrests, and would have no com­and is largely designed for academic men Office at the R.O.T.C. building. prove their membership in the ter-The chief said they apparently ment. 


Student-run station changed its name but not its format 
1be following i..'i the first in a three-part series (m WVFI, the sludent-rnn radio station ser­ving Notrr! Dame arul Saint Mary's. 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
StaffReporter 
After having hopes of becom­ing a commercial radio station broadcasting in FM-stereo dashed over the summer, the new WVFI-AM continues to serve the Notre Dame community with "middle-of-the-road" program­ming and the possibility of an AM-stereo sound from high atop O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
'lhe attempted switch to FM was instigated In hopes of al­leviating the problem of poor reception which has plagued the station. 
Currently, the station uses a se­ries of radio transmitters located in dorms throughout campus in combination with a carrier cur­rent system for broadcasting. The carrier current system allows stu­dents to receive the signal through radios plugged into elec­trical outlets. 
lbis signal is inadequate, however, because the equipment is old, and there is too much in­terference around campus. 

The University was forced to withdraw its license application when the cost for conversion from the present system to FM was estimated at around S l 00,000 -more than double the initial projected figure. 
The cost along with the added liability of maintaining a com­mercial station doomed this at­tempt and probably any future attempts for WVFI to convert to FM. 
The attempted change to FM prompted the station to change its call letters from WSND to WVFI in order to avoid a conflict 
WVFI 
Series 
A A 
with its sister station WSND-FM. When the license application was withdrawn, the name, which stands for the "Voice of the Fight­ing Irish," remained. 
AM-stereo, however, is the new goal for Station Manager Kurt Holzberlein. "The possibil­ity of going on the air as an AM station falls in· the same category (with an FM conversion) be­cause there is a liability," said Holzberlein. "It won't cost as much but there are other rules that the FCC has for AM which would be very constricting." 

"The best situation that we could have right now is with AM­stereo carrier-current. We could provide FM quality sound on campus through the carrier cur­rent system without the FCC rules." 
The AM-stereo carrier-current system would utilize WVFI's present broadcasting network. Added would be stereo trans­formers to the present mono­transmitters, new turntables, and a new console in the WVFI studios. 
In order for students to receive the stereo sound, they will need to convert their AM receivers. Ordinary reception (without converting) will also be en­hanced. According to Holzber­lein, the shift to this new system is currently in progress and results should be heard very soon. 
"AM-stereo takes the AM signal and cleans up the high and low sounds and seperates them a little better," Holzberlein said. "As a result, the signal is cleaned up, boosted, and sounds better. You come out with almost an FM­stereo quality reception." 
With the move to AM-stereo, Holzberlein said he hopes that WVFI will be taking a great step forward toward Increasing its au­
see RADIO, page 3 


~----~----------------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
The U.S. military recently made detailed plans to launch a retaliatory bombingstrike in Lebanon in case the American and British embassies in Beirut came under terrorist attack, The Washington Post reported in its Thesday editions. Shortly before lbanksgiving, it said, the aircraft carrier Eisenhowerwas ordered to hold herposition in the central Mediterranean so she could launch a retaliatory strike ifnecessary. The new1.paper, citing unnamed Pent­agon sources, said Navy preparations extended to flying extra A6E bombers to the carrier and briefing crews on what to strike. Subse­quently, the retaliatory bombing plan was shelved because the ter­rorist attacks did not take place as feared, it said. The military preparatory moves, the Post said, amounted to the most advanced example todate ofthe Reagan administration's newget-tough policy against terrorism. -AP 
TheVatican will have adeficit in 1984 of $30.6 million on an inc001eof $64.2 million, an Italian bankingmagazine reports~The Vatican announced the deficit in March but did not give a break­down on income and expenditures. Savings Bulletin, a monthlypub­lished by the federation ofItalian savings and loan associations, said Monday its information on the highly secret Vatican finances was based on "unofficial but well founded" sources. It said the Holy See would spero 158 billion lire ( $94.8 million) for the year on its worldwide activities while its income from gifts, stamps, entrance fees to museums and investments would be 107 billion lire ( $64.2 million). -AP. 
AseniorBritish dinlOfllat wasshotand killed on 
the way to work in Bombay, ~-yesterday, and police said they were hunting for two men, perhaps connected with the IRA, but telephone calls claimed responsibility in the name ofa radical Mos­lem organization. Indian authorities said Percy Norris, 56, Britain's deputy high commissioner in BOOlbay, was shot and killed by two white "European-looking" men on foot. Bombay Police OliefJulio Ribeiro said at least three shots were fired as a car in which Norris was being driven slowed at a traffic circle about a quarter ofa mile from his office in south Bombay shortly before 8 a.m. The diplomat was pronounced dead on arrival at Breach Candy Hospital of two bulletwounds -one in the temple and one in the heart. -AP 
Atnerican-wheat wuwers,worried about their shrinkingshareofthe world rnarJcetbecause ofthe strongU.S. dollar, are pushing for a system ofincreased export subsidies they say will actually save the government money in the long run. A report prepared for U.S. growers and marketers forecasts that wheat funn­ers will be able to produce 500 million bushels ofwheat more than total demand by 1990, meaning the government will have spend more to pay funners to curb their output. But much ofthat expense couldbeeliminated, the reportsays, iffederal officials would instead invest more to subsidize exports and narrow the supply-demand gap. "We're going to have to be more aggressive" in pushing for exports, Carl Schwensen, executive vice president of the National 
~ofWheat Growers, said Monday. -AP 
The Supreme Court refusedMonday to allow 
authorities to use illegally seized evidence to revoke a convicted 
criminal's probation. The justices, without comment, let stand Ohio 
court rulings that the so-called "exclusionary rule," aimed at deter­
ring police misconduct by barring illegal evidence from criminal 
trials, applies to probation revocation hearings as well. -AP 
Weather 

A 20 percent chance of snow showers thiS morning. Then becoming partly sunny. Colder. High in lower 4os. Mostly dear and cold tonight. Low around 30.-AP 
The.Observer­
1be Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published M<nlay through Friday and on bane foothall Sarurdays, except <h.uing exam and V3Cition periods. 1he Observeris publishedby the sllldentsof lhe University c1 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's OJll(#. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( $20 per se­mester) by writing1beObserver, P.O. BoxQ,Notte Dane, IOOiana 46556. 
1be Observer is a member of 1he Afoood;prd Press. All reproduction liplus are reserved. 
. .,. '' 
(. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Prodtu:tion Consultant ........Steve Foster 
DesignFditor.................MaureenMurphy DesignAssistant...........................Andy Saal 
LayoutStajf..............................Alex Peltzer 
Typesetter-s.....................................Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner News Fditor...............................Mark Potter Copy Fditor....................................Uz Miller Sports Copy Editor ..............Marc Ramirez VieupointupyFditor.........Paul Cimino Vteu:point/.ay(Mt .................Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features /.ay(Mt.........................Bob Henke NDDayFditor.............................Earl Baker SMCDayFditor.........................Shirley Ore AdDesign....................AnnaMarie Furleigh 
John O'Connor Pbotogmpber.............................Phil Deeter 
r·. ----­
·~-­
.•. 0 0 



Twelve years later we are still 'drifting through transition' 
Notre Dame first admitted women in 1972 and has been making the transition toward coeducation ever since. 
No one expected women to be integrated into the University immediately. Eventually equality would overcome the chauvinistic and Stone-Age attitudes that had ruled Notre Dame for 13 5 years. Attitudes take time to change, warned University officials. 
Twelve years later attitudes are still drifting through transition. 
"A private coeducational University, Catholic in Character, in its heritage and the values it espouses," as the Board ofTrustees described Notre Dame in its state­ment of May 7, 1983, cannot depend solely on gradual attitude change and consequent acceptance. Not when there are concrete steps that can be taken to realisti­cally reach that goal. 
Thirty-seven percent of the people who applied for acceptance into the University's Class of 1988 were wo­
men.  However,  women  
comprise only 28 percent of  
those admitted. This type of  
admissions  policy  is  what  
has created a student body  
that  is  approximately  72  
percent male and  28 per­ 
cent female.  
University Trustee Philip  
Hawley called this "a dis­ 
criminatory  admissions  
policy" at the Board ofTrus­ 
tees Student Affairs Commit­ 
tee's meeting Nov.  15. "It  
cuts to the heart of the Uni­versity community," he said. Assistant Provost Sister  Why chctr113e.*'e rbfio?  
John Miriam Jones has ad­ 
mitted  that  this  could  be  
termed  sex  discrimination,  
but that it's "legally permis­ 
sible."  

Supposedly something is being done to correct this situation. "It's not that we're sitting back smugly and saying, 'listen, we have a legal exemption here, so not to worry,' "Jones explained. But what that something is, she does not know. 
At the same meeting at which Hawley criticized the University's admissions policy, a panel of student gov­ernment representatives offered a recommendation that would reform the policy: an equal access admis­sions policy. This means that men and women would be accepted to Notre Dame on their own merits rather than according to a set quota. Admissions Director Kevin Rooney said that for the 1984-85 school year, 1300 men and 500 women were the pre-designated en­rollment figures. 
The student's suggestion echoed Recommendation 28 ofthe PACE (Priorities and Commitments for Excel­lence) Report: "It is further recommended that during 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 

What Should Catholics Know About... 
PRAYER SACRAMENTS 


SCRIPTURE and TRADITION MORALITY -. CHURCH 

Sarah Hamilton 
News Editor 

Inside Wednesday 
the academic year 1983-84, the University reevaluate the matter of the proportion of men to women on the undergraduate student body in light ofour experience with coeducation." 
The Trustees were so impressed with the students' presentation on the role of women at Notre Dame that the issue has been placed on the agenda for the Board's executive meeting in Florida this February. Student Body President Robert Bertino suggested that the issue could come down to the admissions policy. 
This brings up some serious considerations. If an equal access admissions policy is put into effect the University will have to com­mit itself to some physical changes on the campus. There are three obvious op­tions Notre Dame has if it is commited to coeducation: convert men's dorms to wo­men's dorms; build a new women's dorm; or render some dorms coed. 
Administration response to the first option is unfor­tunately indicative of the 

0 University's commitment to 
0 

equality in coeducation. Fa­I'IARK WEIMHOLT ther Hesburgh said convert­ing a men's dorm is "always an option." However, Jones said this has not been popular with the men in the past. Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life, expressed similar sentiment at the Student Affairs Com­mittee meeting. When the recommendation was made, Goldrick reported that male reaction was so negative when this was done when Notre Dame originally ac­cepted women that it is not worth doing again. These reponses are just more examples of drifting attitudes making policy and hindering true coeduca­tion. University administrators and Trustees have been handed an opportunity to take a solid step toward equality at Notre Dame. If they ignore or reject the re­commendation for an equal access admissions policy Notre Dame could drift indefinitely. 
Buy Observer classifieds 
Ask one of the 3million Americans 





whdve 
survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. 
IAMERICAN 
~CANCER 'fSOCIETY~ 

The CATHOLIC FAITH PROGRAM will address these topics on SUNDAYS (Jan. 20-Feb. 17 in Grace Hall) and TUESDAYS(Jan. 22-Feb. 19 in Keenan­Stanford and Walsh Halls) ... 7-8:30 pm. 
Pre-registration Necessary •••deadline December 3rd 
contact: OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY MINISTRY 239-6536 or 239-5242 



The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1984 -page 3 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••• Tanzanian president indicts West •• AITENTION JUNIORS! ••
• for ignoring Africa's food problem 
• 
Associated Press One could first point a finger at said 30 percent of the highlands was 
• The Morris Inn Lottery for Junior Parents' • nature itself-at shifting cyclonic pat­forested in 1935 and only 3 percent 
ADDIS ABABA, ETHIOPIA -Tan­terns that failed to bring seasonal now. •• Weekend will be held on Thursday, Nov. 29: zanian President Julius Nyerere was rains, at a cruel and relentless sun Ethiopia's Agriculture Ministry scathing in his indictment of West­that has baked and cracked once­has said 494,000 acres of forest are
•• in the Rathskellar at 3:30 pm. All those • 
ern governments, saying they didn't fertile land and dried up rivers and being destroyed and 148,000 acres
• 
interested should come! •• respond to the plight of famine­reservoirs . of arable land are being lost every

• 
stricken Africa until their people But droughts are part of nature's year through cutting of trees and

• 
"saw corpses on the television." pattern, and Africa's farmers and her­erosion. Speaking of bumper crops and ders also bear a burden of blame. African governments, specialists "food mountains" In the developed Over many centuries, the land has say, should also shoulder some of


*****1**************************** world, the newly elected chairman become denuded and exhausted by the blame for an 1 1 percent decline of the Organization ofAfrican Unity the cutting of trees for firewood, in the continent's per-capita food
: Fly TQ New Yqrk fQr Christmas,! 
told a news conference here that overgrazing of livestock, the failure production between 1970 and "we must not allow people to die to rotate crops so the land can lie fal­1980.
: with the Lqng Island Club. : 
when we have the means to stop a low and replenish itself. 
* * 
disaster." Ethiopia's Central Highlands, Some governments have stressed** $182 Round Trip ** But assigning the blame for a covering an area the size of France cash crops such as tea, coffee and prolonged drought and famine, and home to 70 percent of the tobacco, as a source of needed
: South Bend to LaGuardia : 
which has pushed more than six mil­country's population, are a case in foreign exchange, and downgraded : leave Dec.12,1984 ! lion Ethiopians to the brink ofstarva­point. food crops. Other nations, such as tion and threatens a total ofsome 3 5 Once a vast wooded watershed, Zambia, banked on Income from
* After last final exam * 
million people in Africa, is not an the region has been stripped of trees copper and other minerals to pay for ! CALL PETE LACHES at 2453 ! easy task. And some say it would be a over centuries of habitation in this imported food, but people went! or PAUL CIFARELLI at 1762 : fruitless exercise anyway. ancient land and now is "Grand Can­hungry when mineral prices 
"There's more than enough blame yon country" -in the words of a slumped.
* for info &reservations * 
to go around," Rep. Howard Wolpe, Western diplomat-with precipitous : SEATS ARE LIMITED ~ a Michigan Democrat who heads a barren hillsides and gorges scored African leaders, worried that dis­House subcommittee on Africa, told by erosion. content in the continent's burgeon­
~********************************* 
an American television audience. A report issued by the United Na­ing cities might cause their downfall, "The issue at this point is how do we tions Food and Agriculture Organi­have tended to keep food prices in save the lives of literally tens upon zation, earlier this year called the urban areas low by having state mar­tens of thousands ofpeople who are highlands one of the world's largest keting boards pay farmers a minimal dying." areas of ecological degradation. It amount for their produce.

~ REALISTIC® 


~«; +PC2000 
HIGH TECH PERM COMPUTER SYSTEM 
Everything you ever wanted in a perm is here! 

· .c lk Radio
Ob.

jeCtives set lOf ta s Continuedjrompagel 
dlence. It would be the first col­legiate station broadca..'iting in

Associated Press Chernenko said the Soviet AM-stereo, he said.
Union is placing great impor­
Support from the administra­MOSCOW President tance on the preliminary discus­tion will be needed for the

Konstantin Chernenko said Mon· sions set for Jan. 7-8 in Geneva changes to be successful,day the upcoming U.S.-Sovlet between Soviet Foreign Minister Holzberlein said. "It (the admin­arms talks should combine the Andrei Gromyko and Secretary of Istration) Is cautious right now"inter-connected questions" of State George Shultz. 
and is wondering If It Is a goodspace weapons and both Premier Nikolai Tikhonov, also idea to be putting all of this

medium-range and strategic quoted by Tass, stressed the money into the station. They aremissiles. · Gromyko-Shultz meeting, saying interested and would like to see aChernenko's comments, re­he hoped it "will help improve good station. They just want toported by the official news the world climate." 
see what's the best possibility for agency Tass, were the first by a the station. They are, at least, op­top Soviet official to reveal Krem­Both Tikhonov and Chernenko timistic that the station will be

lin objectives for the arms talks said the Kremlin expects the agenda. It was also the first time United States to take the initiative Improved," he said. medium-range missiles have in the discussions with "concrete The station, which Is funded by been specifically mentioned for deeds" to back White House calls the University, broadcasts from 7 
the talks. for improved East-West ties and a.m. to I a.m. daily. Holzberlein, a 
The Soviets have stressed they progress toward arms reduction. senior Arts & Letters major, su­pervises the all-student staff of
do not consider the new talks a 
resumption of the Geneva Chernenko and Tikhonov, in a engineers, producers and 54 disc 
negotiations that the Kremlin busy day of official meetings at jockeys. "It (the WVFI pro­the Kremlin, also addressed the gram) is more or less college pro­
broke otf last November follow­U.S.-Soviet agreement to enter gressive," said Holzberleln. "We
ing the deployment of the first new negotiations on space and will play stuJJ that you won't hear
NATO missiles in Western nuclear weapons. on AOR (WAOR-FM) or U93
Europe. (WNDU-FM)." 
$*****************************************************• 
: iC S.A.B.N.D. proudly presents i* i the RE-opening of a 
: iC iC THE RECORD STORE :* : iC *
• * 
iC * 
~ i 
~ FRIDAY~ NOV. 30 : 
~ : 
i : 
: iC same place-1stfloor LaFortune i * ! different times: ~ 
iC * 
~ Mon, Wed, Fri: 12:00-2:00 : ~ Mon, Tues, Thurs: 6:00-8:00 : 
: * 
iC * 
t * 
****************************************************.._ 
The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1984-page 4 

Looking for a future Picasso? 
Sopbmore jennifer Niederst gazes at some of the play wereallproduced by students. new exhibits in theArtBuilding. Ibe works on dis-

Panel supports 55 mph speed limit 
relatively safe, divided highways is Alan Altshuler, dean of customary. graduate school of public adminis­
Some members of the panel tration at New York University and adamantly favored raising the speed chairman of the committee, refused limit, probably to 65 mph, on sec­at a news conference to say how tions ofrural highway that are lightly many panelists favored exempting traveled and built to accommodate some stretches of rural highway higher speedssafely, the report said. from the 55 mph limit. 
r":IIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIttttttttllllllllllllllllllllllllllttOOttttttttttlttlllttllttllltttt, 
Open to All THE BOBS 
from San Francisco 


AssociatedPress 
WASHINGTON -A federal panel urged keeping the national 55 mph speed limit yesterday as "one of the most effective highway safety policies ever adopted," but left for Congress to decide whether to raise the limit on some lightly traveled in­terstate highways in rural areas. 
A special, 19-member committee of the National Research Council, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, noted that in the decade since the 55 mph speed limit was imposed by Congress, public sup­port for it has declined and viola­tions by motorists are increasing. 
"Decreasing compliance, along with slipping public support and an apparent lack of support in some state legislatures, could ultimately lead to the nullification of this law," the panel told Congress in a 254­page repon. 
"Compliance with the law has declined markedly in recent years," the report said, with much ofthe op­position to the 55 mph limit coming from rural Western states where travel over long stretches of 
16", 11tem 

16''.1 item 
$6.95 
$6.95 
call belore 9:30

call belore 11 
_________,_..__.____________ 
Expires 11/Z6/84 
Expires tl./ t /84 
... " ' ... ~ • "' ....... -... "· ~ , ~••• f 


Group seeks to reverse ruling on roadblocks 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's anti­drunken driving task force voted yesterday to join efforts seeking Su­preme Court review of a decision limiting the use of roadblocks to catch intoxicated motorists. 
The Governor's Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving was critical of the Indiana Court of Appeals' decision that the state police roadblock used to catch an Elkhart man was an unconstitutional search and seizure. 
The group, chaired by Marion County Prosecutor Stephen Goldsmith, agreed to file a friend-of­the-coun brief in Attorney General Linley Pearson's effort to get the Su­preme Court to give a definitive statement on the legality of roadblocks in drunken driving en­forcement. 
The appeals court, in a 3-0 deci­sion last week, said that police must prove that roadblocks are more ef­fective than traditional law enforce­ment methods in catching drunken drivers. 
Goldsmith described the appeals court's decision as an incorrect statement of the law regarding the legality of roadblocks. 
The prosecutor said his office has advised the Indianapolis Police De­partment and the Beech Grove Police Department that they can have roadblocks if they follow cer­tain guidelines. Goldsmith said he expected both agencies to set up roadblocks before the holidays are over. 
Bob Small, director of the Cri­minaljustice Institute and a member of the task force, said the appeals court "clearly applied the wrong test" in measuring the con­stitutionality ofroadblocks. 
"They applied the test you would use if you were trying to make ran­dom stops," Small said. 
The task force voted unanimously to intervene with a brief in the case. State Police Superintendent john Shettle said his department's legal counsel also may file a friend-of-the­court briefin the case.

is looking for an 
Assistant Systems Manager 

If you are interested in this paid position, bring a resume to the Observer offices on the 3rd floor of LaFortune and fill out an application. 
Dec 1, Saturday 
at... 


2500llu~ §ffi~ 
i.llllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllittiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIJ 
COUPON 
r 
r 
r 
itars and 20°/o off r accessories with this ad 
~ 
COLLINS MUSIC 
919 S.Michlgan St. S.B. 234-7548 


AT FIVE CORNERS 
OPEN 12 p.m. to 3 a.m.


DAILY SPECIALS 
Antojitos Mexicanos 
(Appetizers) Old Milwaukee Gratis so~/glass 7-10pm $2.50 I pitcher 
WE HAVE CARRY OUT AT COMMONS 



THINK ABOUT IT! 
For more info: Mary Ann Roemer 
M.J. Murray 239-7949 
239-5521 APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEB. 1 
SENIORS: CHALLENGE YOURSELFI HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
A one year postgraduate experience which allows you to live in develop yourfaith and discern your priorities. 

~--------------------­









View~_o_i_n__t_______
w_ed_ne_sd_ay-,N-ov-em_b_er-28_,1-98_4.::-pag_e_s 
Quite a price to pay just to be 'interesting' 
'' l'MlU!.ING YfJJ, .J.V.i "fl..IS SEQUEL. 1/JIU.. BE EVEN Bl~ n.IAI>I OUR ,t..)(E·M~NG-St>NTA. A..ICK ...:: 


The Monroe Doctrine is not an excuse to go in 
We are being treated to what has become a countries as the time. Monroe's statement was 
regular exercise in meaninglessness: The non-interventionist. 
debate is renewed on whether the Monroe Then how did it get twisted into a license 
Doctrine "applies." Reagan's State Depart­for America to intervene whenever things to 
ment claims that it does apply to Nicaragua. the south of us do not fall out to our liking? 
We have had this debate whenever we got The hijacking ofthe original statement, and its 
avaricious looking south -toward Mexico, promotion to the spurious level of"doctrine," 
toward Puerto Rico, toward Guatemala, resembles the usc of Washington's Farewell 
toward Cuba. Unfortunately, both sides of the Address as a sanction for isolationism. At one 
debate usually argue for a non-existent posi­time, isolationists seemed to own Washing­
tion, since the "doctrine" invoked either for ton's defense of neutrality or non-alignment. 
or against the relevant action is not there. Yet the situation in Washington's time was 
not one of isolation. Spain, back then was not 
only in Cuba and elsewhere, but in Louisiana. 
Garry Wills We could not be isolated from European 
powers. But we could be non-aligned in the 
struggle of the two great superpowers, En­
outrider 
gland and France; and that is what Wasington 
argued for. 
The Monroe Doctrine is based, supposedly, It is one of history's "inside jokes" that the on a passage from the State of the Union ad­two documents used to defend opposite posi­drt·ss to Congress in 1823. It was principally tions -maximum isolation and maximum in­drafted by Monroe's secretary of state, John tervention -were at one with each other in Quincy Adams. In the words ofdiplomatic his­intent, and in large degree in their circum­torian Ernest R. May, its aim was to "repeat stances. Though a threat from Russia was the points in (Monroe's) previous annual stimulus for Monroe's declaration against new messages." There was one new note, however colonies, the occasion for a statement at all -a warning against future colonization in the was England's initiative. England wanted to Wt·stern Hemisphere. Future colonization, prevent France from promoting the return of you notice, because there were many revolted Spanish colonies to the mother colonies already ht·re, stretching from En­country. So England offered to make a joint gland's in Canada, Russia's in Alaska, to Spain's declaration with America agianst such a devel­in Cuba and those of several nations in the opment. Caribbean. Monroe himself, and almost all his advisers, 
The one new point looked not, as most were initially in favor of this. Adams, at first people think, toward the south. In May's alone, opposed it because it violated the words: "The stimulus was the controversy Farewell Address's canon on entanglement with Russia and Britain over the northern with European superpowers. Adams had been Pacific Ocean and the northwest coast of told by his father that he -John Adams, Wash­North America." ington's vice president -contributed his 
The Monroe Doctrine did not, therefore, thoughts to the farewell statement, which dedare that Europe should "stay out of' the made his son doubly loyal to its standards. Americas. It recognized that Europe was here, So the author and main proponent of the in many places (including specifically Cuba), Monroe Doctrine's provisions was simply and did not challenge that. It even recognized repeating Washington's neutrality between Russia's ownership of Alaska. (How not? We Hamiltonian Anglophiles and Jeffersonian would later purchase it from the rightful Francophiles of the I 790s. Only in the 1820s, owners.) The statement mainly opposed fur­there were those urging alignment with En­
ther expansion into the disputed Oregon gland and the monarchies, and those urging region. alignment with new republics symbolized by 

Nor was this address a statement in favor of Greece. Monroe opted to stay out -and ever "self-determination." It did not commit since we have distorted his words as an America to actiVt· support for the Greeks in excuse for going in. their rebellion against Turkey, a struggle at the center of debate over independent (C) 1984 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Scenario: Flipping through The Observer one Wednesday, you find an editorial con­cerning the results ofastudent evaluation sur­vey recently conducted by a group known as the Notre Dame faculty government. You read that last semester the faculty government sent out forms to all the professors at Notre Dame asking them to rate students on a scale from one to five on concern, clarity, preparedness and fairness. On this same scale, the professors were asked if a particular student's perfor­mance in their class justified the ~mount of time that was spent in teaching this student, in correcting his papers and other facets of teaching. The faculty government says that these evaluations are necessary because teaching is a professor's livelihood, and with the intense competition for tenure and the in­ceasing demand for publication, a professor 
simply cannot afford to waste time trying to deal with sub-par students. Accordingly, the 
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 

student evaluations help a professor decide which students are worth his time and effort and which are not. You go on to read in this editorial that faculty response to this survey was weak; for many students, less than 30 per­cent of their professors actually filled out the evaluation forms. In spite of this lack of response,The Obseroer Editorial Board thinks it would be "interesting" to see who the "best" and the "worst students" are based on these evaluations. Looking further down the page, you see the heading "Worst students" printed in boldface. Under it, you find your name along with seven others. 
Question: How do you feel? Confused? Outraged? Humiliated? 

Answer: Ask the eight professors whose names appeared under the heading "Worst professors" in the Nov. 14 editorial concern­ing the results of the student government Faculty-Course evaluation survey. 
For those who did not read it, on Nov. 14 The Observer ran an editorial titled "FCEs make grade." In this editorial, the The Obseroer Editorial Board outlined some ofthe results of the new student government Faculty-Course evaluations. The Board pointed out that student response was "less then inspiring"-for many classes, less than 30 percent of the students actually filled out the forms. In spite of this remarkably weak response, the Board thought it would be "interesting" to see who the "best" and the "worst" professors were based on Faculty­Course evaluations. Their one qualifier was that they would not include in these two lists professors for which student response was less than 30 percent. 
Ideally, because The Obseroer is such a powerful campus institution, we should ex­pect that its Editorial Board possess the wis­dom of the ages. However, given that the Editorial Board is composed of students, this 
expectation seems neither realistic nor fair. At  
the very least, though, we should expect that  
the Editorial Board, before printing an edito­ 
rial, think about the question "why arc we  
running this?" As any newspaper e,IJitor worth  
his salt will tell you, the "pros" and "cons" ofa  
story arc to be carefully considered before  
that story reaches the printed page.  
In their editorial, the Editorial Board said  
that the results of the Faculty-Course evalua­ 
tions are "interesting." lbis seems to be their  
one and only "pro." But interesting to whom?  
How could the results of a survey where the  
response was so weak possibly be of interest  
to anyone? The results should be oflittle or no  
interest to students: it would be absurd to  
base a decision about what professor to take  
on a survey to which only 30 percent of those  
polled responded.  
In contrast, what are the "cons" of the FCE  
editorial? To answer this question, one need  
only refer to the scenario at the beginning of  
this column. How would you feel If, because  
of the results of some survey, you were listed  
in The Obseroer as being one of the worst stu­ 
dents at Notre Dame? What would you say to  
your friends and family? Similarly, how would  
a professor feel? One day things are going fine  
and the next he is being publicly criticized for  
being the "worst" at what he has chosen to be  
his life's work. What does he say to his family  
and colleagues? What does he say to his stu­ 
dents?  
Having now looked at the "pros" and the  
"cons," should The Obseroer have run the edi­ 
torial? Obviously not. Why, then, did the Edi­ 
torial Board decide to print it? Did they they  
have something against those professors they  
labeled as "worst?" Maybe, but I don't think  
so. It is more likely that the Editorial Board  
decided to print the results of the FCEs with­ 
out really thinking about how suspect those  
results were, or about what they were doing  
those to professors they deemed "worst."  
Thus, while it is probably not fair to accuse  
the Editorial Board ofbeing malicious, it prob­ 
ably is fair to accuse them of being un­ 
reflective and insensitive. 'lbese, of course, are not capital crimes. But one should remem­ber that in a newspaper, insensitivities are multiplied a thousand times, and unreflective words are always lent some crediblity simply by virtue of appearing in print. One should also remember that people, with all their faults, are sensitive. An excellent example of  ,,,,,,,,  
this is an incident that occured at a midwes­tern university a few years ago. The editors of  1,  
the university yearbook thought it would be "interesting" to run a picture of a female stu­dent standing on a street corner with the cap­tion "waiting for the date that would never come." Surely, they thought, students would  1,,,,  
take it in the humorous way that it was in­ 
tended. Not everyone did, however, and the  
day after the yearbook came out, the girl in the  
picture committed suicide.  
It was, as I think The Observer Editorial  
Board would agree, quite a price to pay just to  
make things "interesting."  
Vernon Marchal is a regular contributor  
to Viewpoint.  

VIewpoint wants to bear from you. Ifyou 

bave an opinion, brlllant lnslgbt ar bumorous comment concerning anytblng appearing In The Observerjust send a let­ter to P.O.Box Q. 
Viewpoint 

Policy 


The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Editor-in-Chief. . .... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . ...... Dave Taiclet 
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller. . ...... Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager. . .. Anne Culligan Un1versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor .. Dan McCullough 
Circulation Manager. . ... Jeff O'Neill reflect the pol1cies of the administration of e1ther institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor . . . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as ob1ect1vely as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Editor. . Michael Sullivan Production Manager. . .. Chris Bowler of a maJOrity of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Ed1tor . . . . ... Dave Grote 
Project Manager ... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor . . ... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters. Photo Editor. . . ........ Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 IS encouraged. 



Accent 
Wednesday, November 28, 1984 -page 6 

r 
, r r 
r r 
r 
r r 
Sir Obnoxious is looking for a few good legs 
by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
I
n all ~robability, the ~ajority ofyou ~niveling ~grats have probably had tt up to your fat httle earlobes wtth all ofthts calendar.business. And, as a matter offact, the majority ofthe same have probably had it up to ditto with yours truly. 
Well,'too bad. 
It was not Sir Obnoxious who dreamed up this trivial notion ofa 
Notre Dame calendar -that was you, my dears; it was not Sir 
Obnoxious whose temper flared at the mention ofselection criteria­
that was you once again; and it was not Sir Obnoxious who made the 
entire matter such a big deal · that wasyou. 
So as long as it is such a big deal, let's talk, you and I. Let's talk about 
calendars. 
Ofcourse you remember the premiere of the Men ofND Calendar, 
which captured 12 members of the male gender in various positions 
and environments with facial expressions that would nauseate even 
Donny Osmond and his family. And unless you've been too busy 
picking your nose lately, you have no doubt caught wind ofthe answer 
to the Men of ND Calendar -don't raise your slimy little hands all at 
once· the Women ofND Calendar. These women, stated the second 
calendar's brainparents, were chosen not only on the basis of beauty 
and poise, but on contribution to the University as well. 
One might expect that the situation would be one ofpeachiness, 
but alas, it was not to be. In the tradition ofcultivating controversial 
content on barren grounds, it was contended that the Women ofND 
Calendar originators intended to avoid the "cheap exploitation and 
sexual suggestiveness" that those contending were pretending not to 
condone. And where do cheap exploitation and sexual suggestiveness 
come from, you ask? 
Well, obviously, you morons, these admirable phenomena spew 
forth when calendar subjects are chosen solely on the basis ofbeauty, 
and these very concerned representatives ofa certain women's dorm 
accused the Women ofND Calendar originators ofdoing just that. 
Contribution never entered into it, they suggested. Not like it did in 
the selection ofthe 12 men appearing in the Men ofND Calendar, you 
understand, all ofwhom are student body co-presidents with straight 
A's majoring in nuclear engineering and are currently being 
considered as possible appointees to either the NASA Space Program 
or the United States Supreme Court. 
Pardon us, say the accusers, but at least the Women ofND Calendar coordinators were never stupid enough to claim that their choices would be judged on more than good looks. That would have been hypocritical. 
Sir Obnoxious excuses the accusers, and acknowledges their skillful 
display ofobnoxiousness. But he simply must point out that the 
Women ofND producers also were never stupid enough to claim that 
what they were doing reeked ofcheap exploitation and sexual 
suggestiveness. You did that. And that's hysterical. 
And you have no right to accuse Sir Obnoxious ofchauvinistic 
tendencies. Why? Because he said so, that's why. Besides, it's always 
your prerogative to change your mind about the whole thing, right? 
Sir Obnoxious, however, wishes to dispense with all of this business 
condemning chauvinism and exploitation: After all, what really is the 
purpose ofa pictorial calendar? Personally, Sir Obnoxious would 
rather have something nice to maybe gawk at every once in a while. 
He may be chauvinistic, but he's certainly no hypocrite. Why all the 
fuss? Let's see some flesh. 
Sir Obnoxious proposes -nay, threatens -a new ND calendar with 
no strings attached, no promises made, with one criterion in mind . 
nice, shapely, near-pedect pairs oflegs. This Legs ofND Calendar is 
open to all Notre Dame females, and to allow an as yet untapped 
reservoir ofbeautiful appendages into the stiffcompetition, it is open 
to Saint Mary's students as well. Sir Obnoxious will discriminate 
wherever he sees fit, and is an equal opportunity discriminator. 
Contestants may mail portfolios to Sir Obnoxious in care ofThe 
Obseroer. No men need apply, nor should women with unshaven legs, 
as obnoxious as they may be. Selections will be made by a one-person 
committee consisting ofmyself. Legs will be judged on beauty, poise, 
shapeliness and whatever else Sir Obnoxious can think ofat the time. 
And Sir Obnoxious doesn't care ifyou somehow got lucky and 
managed to squeak into either school; it doesn't matter if all you do is 
sit around all day and get involved in nothing but aerobics-ifyou have 
the legs ofVictoria Principal or Paulina Porizkova, you're as good as in. 
Ofcourse Sir Obnoxious realizes that some people not accustomed 
to such tactlessness may be subject to small fits ofanger and disgust 
upon hearing Sir Obnoxious' proposal. Ifyou are one such person, 
relieve your anger by writing to Sir Obnoxious-you're sure to enjoy 
it. Sir Obnoxious sends letters to himselfconstantly and never fails to 
be delighted. 
Dear Sir Obnoxious: 
I am one member ofa Pangborn triple in which another member, who we'll call Tom, has a girlfriend who thinks this is home. Many a time it is when I walk in and find her here, and many a time it is that she walks in sans knocking, and I and the other roommate think ourselves lucky not to have been found in an indecent condition. At night, while we are trying to study, only a few feet away will be the obnoxious sounds ofromance: tuck-in stories, lovey-dovey conversation, and so on. We know that this behavior is obnoxious, and we admire it. The question is, how can we retaliate? 
Four's A Crowd 0 Annoying One: Stop worrying about indecency in the girl's presence. In fact, go out ofyour way to be indecent when she's around. If their romantic banter bothers you while you study, walk in the lovers' midst and tell dirty jokes while passing hurricane-like wind. Ifthey don't take the hint, it's just as well; it proves their acclimation to rudeness and thus they are friends worth having. 
Sir Obnoxious 



'0h God, you Devil' ­
Paul Cimino 
features staff writer 

Movies 

I 
wanted to do "Amadeus" but they said "It's already been done." Great. "Why don't you do 'Oh God, You Devil'?", they asked. That idea had some potential. I had seen the coming attractions when I went to see "Amadeus" (ironic, eh?) and it looked pretty good. So I decided to do it. Coupled with dinner at the old golden arches, it made for a somewhat decent evening.. 
In case you have not seen or heard anything about the movie, "Oh God, You Devil" is the third "God" movie to date. It stars the aging and yet remarkable George Burns who also played the Lord in the earlier films "Oh God" and "Oh God, Book II". This "God" flick adds a twist to the story with the inclu· sion ofthe Devil who is also played by the cigar-toting Burns. 
The movie opens on the night of April 16, 1960. A young boy is lying in bed with a high fever and his father, fearing for the boy's life, composes a short but touching prayer to God that his son may live. The scene cuts to the street below the apartment where God (you know it is God because he is wearing a golfer's hat, a windbreaker jacket and tennis shoes) puts a mark in his little notebook and fades into thin air as the opening credits begin to roll. 
The movie then jumps to the present in Los Angeles where we meet Bobby Sheldon, a devout husband and songwriter who wants desperately to make it big but is hit with failure at every turn. Sheldon is played by Ted Wass who, oddly enough, looks like he could pass for Huey Lewis' brother. It's the old "give the viewers a hero they can identify with" ploy! In any event, Lewis, excuse me, Sheldon vows that he would sell his soul to be a star. Coincidentally, the lord of the underworld happens to home-in on Sheldon's vow while driving around 
L.A. in a sporty red and black auto­mobile (license plate "HOT") and decides to pay Bobby a visit. 
Meanwhile, the devilish Burns has just cancelled the contract of Billy Wayne, America's favorite rock star. Wayne sold his soul seven years earlier and now must pay the piper. Satan decides that he will make Bobby Sheldon the next Billy Wayne. He visits Bobby in the guise ofHarry Tophet (Tophet just hap­pens to be synonymous with Hell), a big-time agent. Tophet offers Sheldon a contract for a trial period and, after very little consideration, he accepts. Sheldon suddenly becomes Billy Wayne while the true Billy Wayne takes Sheldon's place in L.A. As always, there arc catches to the contract and after much deliberation, Bobby decides that he wants out. Naturally, Burns­as-Mephisto refuses to allow this and with nowhere else to turn, Bobby calls for some divine inspira­tion from the Most High. As you may have expected, this sets up a 



heavenly 
dramatic confrontation between 
Burns and Burns which, surpris· 
ingly, occurs at a poker table. 
George Burns has been playing God for a while and I would venture to say that he has got the role under his skin. He is, however, more delightful as the Devil. Both roles, by their nature, allow for a veritable potpourri ofcliches and, needless to say, the writers of this film deemed it necessary to add more than their share. Burns spurts lines such as "I was really burned out" on more than one occasion. Being an old vaudevillian, Burns is, thankfully able to do justice to lines ofthis type in such a way as to promote laughter. It would seem that even in his later years, he still has the ability to get people to laugh. 
On the younger side, Ted Wass is also very good as a musician striv­ing for success in a market which does not want anything to do with him. Wass portrays a character who is thrust into a totally different world with the flick ofa finger and must act intelligently in situations even though he does not know what is happening. Now if you don't understand what that means ·go see thefilm! 
In the past I have enthusiastically 
recommended many movies and 
"Oh God, You Devil" deserves the 
same treatment. I cannot call this a 
fantastic movie from any stand­
point, however, it is a good time 
and that's what really counts. And 
for those ofyou who enjoy corny 
lines and sappy endings it is a must. 
In any case, "Oh God, You Devil" is 
an enjoyable film and well worth 
the price ofadmission. So go, have a 
good time, and don't worry about 
getting "burned!" 


Hall and Oates churn out hits 
Tim Adams 
features staff writer 
Records 


A 
new album from Daryl Hall and John Oates usually conjurs up images ofsolid production values, soulful singing, and guaranteed bucks. Their new album,Big Bam Boom, carries on that tradition. Unfortunately, this presents a prob­lem: does one sacrifice guaranteed commercial success for artistic integrity, or does one bow to the desire for money and keep churn­ing out the hits? Hall and Oates seem to have opted for the latter, though they do redeem themselves in a few aspects. 
Big Bam Boom refers to the booming drum sound on the album, as well as the "bam" sounds of re-mix scattered throughout. It was co-produced by veteran engineer Bob Clearmountain, who recently mixed Bruce Springsteen'sBorn in the U.SA. album, which also featured a heavy drum sound. In addition, Arthur Baker, the man behind the re-mixes of Springsteen's songs "Dancing in the Dark" and "Cover Me," is the mix consultant and additional producer onBig Bam Boom, illustrating Hall and Oates' desire for a more modern sound. 
Baker's presence is immediately noticed on the first song, the prelude to "Out ofTouch" called "Dance on Your Knees." Though only over a minute in length, it signals Hall and Oates' inclusion of the influence ofthe break-dance phenomenon on music today. Baker co-wrote the song, and not surpris­ingly, it reminds the listener ofthe "Dancing in the Dark" re-mix. "Out ofTouch" is a not very remarkable single that features typical Hall and Oates Ivrics like: 
Reaching outfor something to hold Lookingfor a love where the climate is cold Manic moves and drowsy dreams Or living in the middle between the two extremes 
These words don't mean a whole lot; they rhyme and evoke vague images ofindecision in love, but 
that's about it. 
For the most part, the lyrics on Big Bam Boom arc very vague, and they rarely form a coherent nar­rative. Take, for example, John Oates' lyrics on "Cold Dark and Yesterday": 
Glamorama all around me 

Friendly natives turning back to brown 
I keep my shades well down 

They cannotpenetrate what can't befound 
I feel the fever start to rise I slip away in indiscreet disguise 
These obtuse utterings serve no real purpose except to fill in the gaps between choruses. In fact, all ofBig Bam Boom could be summed up lyrically by the song titles alone. They say exactly what the songs are about, and they're easily remem­bered. In this aspect, Hall and Oates pander to airheaded or lovestruck teenyboppers who have no desire for a message ofsubstance. They figure as long as it sticks in your head, it's good. 
Since the lyrical content is a flop, that leaves the music, which I must admit isn't half-bad. Hall and Oates utilize some good hooks, and combined with the pristine produc­tion, most ofBig Bam Boom comes across as above-average pop with a tinge ofsoul. "Bank on Your Love" features a catchy bass line, and its humming presence will make you git down. "All American Girl" scores because of Daryl Hall's fal­setto singing of"she knows" as the song fades. It occurs as he's talking to a girl at a party, and the result is both funny and touching. 
As a whole, Big Bam Boom represents neither a leap forward nor backward for Daryl Hall and John Oates. They have never really strived to be arty or intellectual; they've always been romantic crooners. But, as one of their song titles suggests, it seems as if they're "Going Thru the Motions." 
~~---­

-
Wednesday, November 28, 1984-page 7 



Wham! the latest British invasion continues 
Don Seymour 
features staff writer 
Records 
U
pon seeing the video for "Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go," a frit·nd remarked that the two shortdad members of Wham! lookt•d liked cliched, hip California beach boys. He was surprised to find out the hand was the latest product of the new British invasion. Yes. Wham! is British and has fol­lowed other chart-topping hands like Culture Club. Bananarama. and tht· Thompson Twins across the Atlantic. 
The hand consists of slngt·r/songwriter George Michael and guitarist Andrew Ridgely. The hand's first American album, Fa11tasltc, hilled under the name Wham! U.K., was released last year to minimal sales; however, thanks to MTV, Americans got a taste of this hand's funky, jazzy, melodic synth pop from the "Bad Boys" video, a song about a blossoming hoodlum. That album showed strong Influences ofAmerican rap ("Wham Rap" and "Young Guns") and jazz ("Club Tropicana") as well 

as lyrics with a naughty tone that produced a fresh, new brand ofpop. 
Unfortunately, the hand's second alhum,MakeltBtg, is a bit ofa disappointment in view of the debut. The rap is gone, and the flavors offunk and jazz are much fainter in favor ofa melodic but stale form ofpop. The lyrics too have lost their naughtiness, leaving them incredibly sugary, simpleminded and boring. Indeed, Wham! seems to have become an Eighties ultra-pop band. The for­mula has worked: three ofthe al­bum's singles, "Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go," "Freedom," and "Careless Whispers," have hit num­ber one on the British charts, and , as I write this, "Wake Me Up" sit~ atop the Billboard chart here in the United States. 
"Wake Me Up Before You Go­Go," although overplayed on our airways, evokes memories of "Bad Boys." It is a delightful, irresistable 
How not to meet a girl Bebot 


Tired of the old routine? 
~The Obser:ver---_ 
The Features Department is accepting applications for: 
• Features copy editor 
For more Information contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313 
foot-stomper with a pleasing melody and a complement ofback­up singers. The lyrics are inane, feel-good fluff but they fit well with the music. This upbeat number is an excellent pop song and is the high­light of the album. 
"Freedom," the album's other highlight and a definite single possi­bility, and "Heartbeat" recall the modern '50s tribute style of Billy ]oel'sAn Innocent Man. "Freedom" uses horns and a choppy guitar line; "Heartbeat" uses piano and that castanet-type ofpercussion whose name I can never remember. Both sport bright, appealing melodies and standard love song lyrics. lbe result is fun. Look out for "Freedom" on the charts. 
"Everything She Wants" is an­other love song which, like most of the songs here, concerns a guy who attempts to affirm the affections ofa woman who seems to be in control of the relationship. "Everything She Want~" has a prominent, monotonous bass line but a nice hook in the chorus. 
"IfYou Were There," an old Isley brothers tune, sounds like some­thing that came out in the mid-'70s. It has a nice melody, but it's only alright. 
The album includes two slow songs. "Careless Whispers" is the 
Too many cooks spoil soup 


Vic Sciulli 
features staffwriter 
Records 
There was a time a few years ago 
1 when the title of"new wave" or better yet, "punk", for a group was almost enough to get a group some attention from audiences. During those early days when groups like the Sex Pistols were raising eyebrows, new wave meant a cer­tain amount ofunabashed af­frontlveness in the music. 
Since then there has been a definite softening of the definition "new wave". Many of the same groups who rose with the advent of the new wave have fused other styles of music with their original sound. The combination of new wave and pop was successful for bands like the Cars and Blondie. 
When the Comateens debuted 

last year withPtctures On A String, they were also quickly pegged "new wave." (Fashion is as much integral to the new wave label as sound and the Comateens definitely stood out.) A single from the album, "Get Off My Case" was a dance club hit with a scatchy guitar adding a tough, funky edge to the song. Other songs, like "The Late Mistake" and "Comateens" excited those who saw the band's flair for 
pop. 
The groups latest album Deal With It will probably be a disap­pointment to those who were hoping for a more polished, developed sound than that offered by the band's debut. A more careful eye on production could h«ve solved a lot of this album's prob­lems. 
The LP certainly starts off en­couragingly. "Resist Her," the album's first single highlights the most positive aspects of the group. Lead singer Lyn Byrd puts out a strong vocal performance, reminis­cent ofBiondie'sP/asttc Letters they've become so unoffensive that 
they're offensive. The music is 
melodic, but, except for a few cases, 
has a hard time rising above 
mediocrity. I never thought I'd find 
an album more commercial than Footloose, but this seems to be it. 
-· 
better ofthe two. It starts with some pseudo-dramatic strings and sports a bittersweet melody and some repititious sax. 
It seems obvious that Wham! has attempted and succeeded in be­coming more accessible; yet, 

sound. What she lacks in energy 
Byrd makes up in toughness; her voice never gets lost in the song's 
synth dominated instrumental 
parts. Hardly the standard pop hit, 
"Resist Her" is one of the few songs 
that flirts with being a hit. 
The rest ofthe album can best be described as a mesh ofstyles that really don't hold together well. "Satin Hop" sounds as though everyone was playing to them­selves; the 50s sounding vocals, the bluesy guitars and the 60s sounding keyboards really sound pretty disor­ganized. The title track's lead guitar almost ruins the catchy keyboard opening. "Ask Yourself' changes pace too many times and in the end becomes completely unmemorable. 
"Love Will Follow You" and "Walking, Watching" are more directed efforts, with Byrd's vocals coming to the rescue. The effort on the latter actually illustrates the group's most obvious problem: its lack ofdirection and organization. Many ofthe album's tracks attempt to grasp too many styles at once. "Walking Watching" is the LPs most simple but also most consistent piece; vocals are harmonious and the keyboards and drums are in sync. 
Pete Solley, known for his work with the Romantics produced the album but should have been more directed on this effort. Most new groups face the task ofhaving to carve out a distinctive sound so that audiences have something to refer to in the future. A producer will try to find and develop this specific style; Solley fails in this attempt to bring out an identifying sound. Next time out, the group should try to stick to a more comfortable style; too many chefs in this kitchen really spoiled the soup. 
-
-
Wednesday, November 28,1984-pageS
Sports Briefs 
Former Irish star excels in NFL 
The NotreDame SquashOubwillbe playing host to a tournament this Friday and Saturday. There will be two 
Bell has fans chanting, 'Joe Who?' 
divisions, beginner and intermediate, in the free tournament. For 
Associated Press are now finding it harder to remem­break and the speed to break it allmore information, call Sean at 277-3953 or Bill at 283-2302. -The ber who he replaced. the way like he did Sunday."
Observer 

ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. · As Greg In fact, Bell's 852 rushing yards, Bell and Stephenson both ac­Bell charged through the Dallas good for third place in the AFC, are knowledged that there is room for defense Sunday for another healthy 68 more than Cribbs had at the same improvement, particularly in run­gain on his way to a 206-yard game, point last season. ning pass routes out of the backfield
Sixteen ROTC basketball teams from six 
one observer at Rich Stadium turned Bell said he felt "from the first and in his blocking. 
stateswill participate this Saturday and Sunday in the second annual to another and asked, "Joe who?" time I got here" that the injuries, the "In college, either I ran the ball or
ROTC tournament at Stepan Center. The tournament, which is For Bell, the Notre Dame rookie most serious of which was a broken I'd go out for a pass," said Bell. "Thesponsored by the Notre Dame Army ROTC drill team, features repre­who had the misfortune of joining bone in his ankle that hadn't mended thing I had to adjust to the most issentatives from e-.ach of Notre Dame's ROTC units as well as teams the Buffalo Bills the year after star completely, were behind him. just learning to stick in there andfrom Illinois, Kentucky and Miami (Ohio). Admission to the games is running backJoe Cribbs departed to "You let an injury stick in your take on much larger guys (while
free. -The Observer the United States Football League, mind and you play football a differ­blocking)." the reaction was a long time in com­ent way," he said. "Football is meant The little backfield blocking he ing. to be played with reckless abandon, did in college, he said, involved Ever since Cribbs, Buffalo's prime and ifyou start playing it cautiously, taking out defensive backs that came
The NVA table-tennis tournament will 
offensive weapon during his four your game's going to go down." on a blitz. 
begin Monday. Players should call theNVA office at 239-6100 tofind 
·-years here, left in a contract dispute, He said he felt no urgency to "Now, you've got 255-or 260­
out when and where their matches are scheduled. The first two Bills fans were wondering who prove the doubters wrong. "They're pound linemen coming at full speedrounds of the toumariJ.ent will be completed before Christmas would fill the void. When Bell, not experts. The people who and these linebackers can run and
break. -The Observer 

whose injuries had limited him to recruited me and scouted me, they they generate a lot of smack," he 870 yards rushing during his four did their job. The people who watch said. "You've just got to learn to stick years in college, was taken late on football don't watch it the same way in there and give them a good shot." the first round, most were still won­as the guys that scout it." For a natural runner like Bell,
The NVA Weight Training Oinic, which 
dering. learning to block will "be my biggestfeatures Notre Dame strength and conditioning coach Gary W eil, is "I think the biggest pressure prob­While Bell has yet to prove him­task.
scheduled for Monday and Wednesday, December 3 and 5, at 7 pm. 
ably wasn't replacing Cribbs, (it self as good a blocker or receiver as "I wasn't born to be a blocker," heAnyone who is interested may register at the NVA office or call 239· was) because of my past experi­Cribbs, he has greater open field said. "I don't think running is going
6100. -The Observer 

ences at Notre Dame, people were speed and is beginning to read more to be hard because running is some­probably just questioning whether I accurately the cues his blockers give thing that comes natural." was going to be able to do the job him. Stephenson said that following I'm doing," he said. He said his improvement in that Cribbs "is a stigma to some extent"
Brother louisHurdk, C.S.C.,director of the 
Bell's lackluster early-season ef­area "all comes from getting the ball for Bell, but Bell says that may be aswimmingprogram at Notre Dame,has been named the outstanding forts ( 77 yards through the first four more. I'm getting the ball a lot more situation unique to Buffalo.
auxiliary patroller in the National Ski Patrol System. Brother Louis is weeks ofthe season) were obscured now, and when I got here, I wasn't "I guarantee you the same thinga member of the Buchanan, Mich., Royal Valley patrol and a volun­by the general Buffalo collapse that accustomed to linebackers who probably happened to Terry Millerteer for the St. Joseph County Red Cross. -The Observer 
saw the Bills lose their first 11 games could run just as fast as the backs. when he came and O.J. (Simpson) before coming back for last week's Things happen a lot quicker." left," said Bell. "The same with 14-3 upset over the Cowboys. "He's got a better feel for what Cribbs when he came. The way I see But with his effort Sunday, which we're doing up front," said Bills it is it's a tradition for Buffalo to have
Observer Soorts Briefs are accepted Sunday included an explosive 85-yard Coach Kay Stephenson. "He has a a good running back."
through Thursday u;:;tti" 4pm. at The Observer office on the third 
touchdown run on the first play better feel for the people we're IfBell continues to run the way hefloor ofl.aFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer from scrimmage, those who earlier playing with and (he has) that God­has, it's a tradition that is not in im­were wondering who Greg Bell was given ability to see and make the mediate danger of ending. 
The Obser!'er Notre Dame office. locattcd on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accept·s dassified advertbing from <J a.m. until·! p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserz•er Saint Mary's office. l<><·atl·d on the third floor ,;f Haggar College Center. accepts dassifieds from 12:50 p.m. until 5 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day das-ifieds is .~ p.m. All classificds must he prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 lTnts per fin· charal··
Classifieds 
ters er day. 

Lost: Ught brown cassette case in or near FOR SALE: B3LC ARTS AND LETTERS SENIORS, ARTS 
AND DON'T MISS THIS "CHRISTMAS 0·2 student lot on 11/19 I can identify '72Skyl8rk AND LETTERS SENIOR5-FIRST NA· WITH HOLY CROSS DANCE" $1 atLOST/FOUNDcontents of the case Please return. Body: Poor Engine: Good TIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO door-SMC dining Hall Friday 9-1 Dance 
REWARD. Call1382 $500 or bMt offer BACI':STROKE! FIVE KNOTS I PRESENTATION/RECEPTION, WED., out the end of Holy Cross Week! LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH MIS· Jeff 288·2042 NOV. 28 7·9:00 P.M. ALUMNI ROOM OF SOURI 10. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON LOST: PAIR OF BLACK GLOVES MORRIS INN. ALL INVITED. 
Mary! Rachel' What the FACK' OK, OK,
SAT. PLEASE CONTACT 3085. BEFORE BREAK. IF YOU HAVE ANY < NO NOVICE CREW NO NOVICE CREW INFO, CALL GREG AT 3201 Philly. PA 
we'll go. BUT' under two CONDITIONS!!! DEAR CHRISTl FROM SMC, Penn State First condition is, YOU bring the KY. TheTO WHOEVER TOOK MY COAT FROM Since The Observer did not write a story THE 2·7 PARTY AT EAST MARION on NO Novice Crew, here are the details: 
LOST: ONE GREEN I.D. FOLDER WITH is awfully far away, so whyS don't you get second condition is we want an E-wok 1.0., DETEX. PA LICENSE, AND a boyfriend from a real school (N.D.)? A dinner. We will bring the (hehehehe). But
STREET ON FAIDAAY NIGHT: PLEASE Fourty·two people, listed below, traveled all frivolity aside, we would be proud toes·
Concerned Domer cort two loud clumsy women from F artey. 
RETURN IT!! I DON'T WANT TO MASTER CARD; ON MONDAY AT to Philly, PA. the weekend of the Yugos­FREEZE All WINTER LONG. I AM OF­LUNCHTIME (EITHER IN NORTH TICKETS lavia lrball game, the Fi)()( concert, the FERING A REWARD FOR IT'S RETURN DINING HALL OR EN . ROUTE TO Penn State game, the lnterhall f-ball TO MY POSESSION, NO QUESTIONS games, and the Rocky Horror Pic Show to 
BADIN). IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL BIG GUY, Top Dog, Big Cheese, Austria· 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY NELSON! Hope you ASKED. IT'S A STRIPED ABOVE THE LEANNE AT K3622, OR BAING BY 232 NEED MONEY FOR CHRISTMAS? represent Notre Dame in a sport where 
man! 
don't spend this year on the couch (by KNEE WOOL COAT. SIZE 9. CALL SELL ME YOUR 2 IU·ND &-BALL GA the athletes sit on their asses and go
BADIN HALL. THANKS! This counts as three letters. Atari misses 
yourseH again). Luv KY, Spanky, & Com­NORMA AT 2808 IF YOU CAN HELP ME. TIX. PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 23&-backwards. Needless to say, Notre Dame 
you. Roids says "NO!" (nol yet) Ach du 
pany5303. dominated. THEY CONQUERED 
Iieber! Are the Alps and the beerhouses ready for us? The Alps are going down!!! (Fraulein, auch?) Signed, the H.Q. of Congrats to: Karen, Kathy, Laura. 
LOST A BLACK LEATHER RUGBY Andrea, Megan, Catherine. Carol, ANNE DOYLE·Now that you are 19, gatherings. P.S., Miss YO\I lots. Write us
JACKET WITH A WALLET ON SENIOR Gretchen, and Margo. Lori, Margy, Sue, would you please stop climbing on the sometime, PLEASE!!! Newest stud· 
FOR RENT 
SUICIDE STOMP FRIDAY, NOV 16. Chris, Kathy, Molly, Amy, Colleen, and furniture! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 234·7412. .............................................................. Carol. Mark. Corey, Bill, Eric, Bill, Bill, puppy, the SAAB-god. -KATHLEEN FOR RENT 3 brm/1 bth house near NO Todd, Kevin, and Greg. Mugs, Elinor, LOST: One yellow !-shirt at Rock on Perfect for grad students $425/ mo Avail NOTICES John, Paul, Mark, Stephanie, Jeff. PARADOX: Did you read the Personals 
Friday afternoon a couple of weeks ego; Jan 1 Call287 7318 Steve Auerbach is CRAZY, like a snake' today? BARCLA YMAN has "Endangered, Feces' on front and '2' ............................................................... 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
ROOMMATE WANTED: Turtle Cr Apt; 15 HAPPY BIRTHDAY PEGGY. AT LEAST I 
or borrowed please call Animal at 3336. min walk to NO; occupy over break or GOT THE DATE RIGHT THIS YEAR. early next term; $160/mdt elec; call am or SEE YOU THERE NEXT WEEK. 
on back. Great sentimental value. If found STARBOARDS GIVE ME MORE!!! Whatever happened to Alan O'Day? 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8987 
Debbie Buchanan fences with the best of SURESHOT 35MM CAMERA LOST ON . pm--2n-4153 Dickey Greene!!! Di~k~~····(3;;;;;~~f!.! them'
WORDPROCESSlNG AND TYPING.
THE FIELD AFTER THE PENN ST. VIC­Dickey Greene!!! 
272-8827. Dear Father Joyce, TORY PLEASE HELP ME SEE MY OCT. 
It never ceases to amaze me how the ad· 
BREAK PHOTOS ON THE FILM.CALL Hey Mellon' You'll have a great time
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL ministration can consistently keep from
ANYTIME SMC·5165 OR ·5256! formal-izing anyway. Dance-wise, you
MRS. COKER. 233-7009 providing the Band with adequate funds, 
WANTED
THANKS! Skid Row ... As we enter the old certainly haven't done too bad this se­force them to prac· tice in condemnedhomestretch, who will fall on his academic mester. Better than anyone I know, at
TYPING facilities. and now, when the oppurtunity
I FOUND A NICE RING AT THE BARS face? Ray? Pete? Nick? Potter? your least. And next semester promises to be
Jackie Boggs exists to make up for all this, prevent them 
WANTED DEAD OR ALIVE: Starboard, 684-8793 from going to a bowl game. It is a credit to 
THURS. 11/15. CALL ALAN AT 3267 TO guess is as good as mine. Place your bets even better! Another semester of THAT 
MJ&AI
IDENTIFY. now. 
dorm's dances' TB the band in the way they maintain their 
...................... 

spirit and dedication despite you. (I heard
Found: Khaki snap on hood with brown ALOHA ALOHA ALOHA HELLO! 
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES you won't even consider letting them pitch WANTED: STUDENT SPRING BREAKplad, wool lining on the football field after 
2n-604s HEY, lt'a tonight. The 'emergency' in to offset the cost!!) 
Penn State game. Call Matt ]2n-6463for REPRESENTATIVES FOR COL· Did you ever go to Madison for Hatler
PICKUP AND DELIVERY meeting ol the Progr...lve MualcLEGIATE TOUR AND TRAVEL EARN
return. ween? 
Club, et 7 p.m. In the Architecture Dear SMC. I feel cheap, dirty and used. 
COMP TRIPS AND CASH. CALL RIGHT SPRING BREAK in Daytona Beach from ·Steve
.............................. 

Auditorium. lt'a yer one end only
IF YOU FOUND A SILVER MENS SEIKO NOW FOR MORE INFORMATION, 612· Some people just have way too much ... 
chence to order • PMC t·ahlrt (bring $5
$89, South Padre from $78, Mustang Is­per ahlrt), end -·re elao gon1111 llllk
LCD WATCH IT'S MINE. MOST LIKELY 645-4727/800.328-5897 OR WRITE TO STYLE!
land/Port Aransas $119, Steamboat Springs skiing from $79. HURRY "Break 
LOST ON NORTH QUAD NEAR PAULA, 2111 UNIVERSITY AVENUE, Peg Honey· 
ebout the dllncee, the record llbrllry,KEENAN HALL. PLEASE CALL SCOTT ST. PAUL. MN 55114. SAB SPRING SKI EXTRAVAGANZA to It was great eyeing you again Sat. nite at 
end eny genen~l gripea you heve. Sobe AT3281. REWARD!$$$. Winter Park Colorado!! Info meeting Wed BMC. Where was your friend? And your from the Books" call Sunchase Tours toll there, alright?
free for more informa-lion 1-800-321·
Wanted. Armorer for University of Notre Nov 28 in 20 LaFortune at 7 PM van? We hear it's your birthday today,5911 or contact a Sunchase CampusDame varsity fencing team. Able to work
MONEY$$$MONEY$$$MONEY LOST:I .......................... Babe. Wanna celebrate with us? Meet us
Everyone come find out about the nasty
Representative or your local Travel monks and whaT REALLY GOES ON
FIGURED THIS WOULD GET YOUR AT· with small tools and mechanically and Theo Mlljora and other lnt-ted atu­
in the parking lot, as usual. And bring your electrically inclined. Please contact Mike 
Agency TODAY! 
TENTION.NOW WOULD YOU PLEASE dllnlll: Kevin McAievy wtll meke a van. We'll see ij age has affected your
UNDER THOSE WOMEN'S SKIRTS. 
RETURN MY WALLET THAT YOU DeCicco at 239-5585. preeenllltlon on the Goepel ol John reflexes.
THE DRAMATIST, NOV.30, DEC 1,6,7,8 GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559
STOLE FROM ME WHILE I WAS tonight at 10 pm In 341 O'Sheg. Don't ·straight-men
$50,553/yMr. Now Hiring. Vour ArM.
SHOWERING AT THE ACC TO THEIR mi..It!
C.ll805-687-6000, Ext. R-11834.
LOST&FOUND.YOU CAN KEEP THE DOLLAR OR PLACE IT IN THE COLLEC· NEED RIDE TO DAYTON OH WKND OF To my teddy bear (one year later), Happy 
JERRY JUDD-NEVER TOO PREOC·
NOV. 30 CALL BILL 2153 CUPIED TO WISH YOU THE BEST.
TION BASKET ON SUNDAY AND MAKE On the Flying Island of Lapufa... "Birthday Week'" After an incredible kick· 
BOTH OF US FEEL BETTER. PAUL WILKINS is King!· off (better than Roby's punts). how do you
KNOCK 'EM DEAD IN DENVER. 
................................................... want to continue the celebration? LOST; (SMC) OUR DINNER DATES AT Candlelight? Champagne? Reservations 5:30P.M. ATTENTION ARTIST (or just Mac's)? You name it! 
PERSONALS 
Mr. Aweeome in Sorin· Missing anything 
FOR SALE 
from your luggage? If you know what's ··················································•··········· OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, YOUR HELP IS NEEDED. PLEASE BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE! YOUR PALS 
LOST; CO.EX FOR DINNER AT SMC ARTIE HOMER GET A CLUE ON LIFE 
gone, we're willing to make a trade! Call FOUND; (SMC) OUR DINNER DATES CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE SHARE VOUR TALENTS WITH THE FROM 11 P.S. MIKE YOU'RE FAT 
FOR SALE: 1963 Fender Musicmaster SMC 4295 or 40n. AT 6:00P.M. GIRLS, NEXT TIME LET'S electric guitar. Excellent condition. $200 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND-MASS or best offer. Call2651. 
SYNCHRONIZE OUR WATCHES. COMMITTEE. WE ARE ACCEPTING HORSE DIED: NEED RIDE TO BOSTON
. 

FISH HEADS, FISH HEADS, ROLLY· DESIGNS FOR THE COVER OF THE DON'T MISS The Miss Holy Cross Con· UNCLASSIFIED CLASSIFIEDS FOUND: WATCH. If the watch you lost is 1or sale' 76'VW RABBIT great conditions POLLY FISH HEADS, EAT THEM UP, MASS PROGRAMS. PLEASE SUBMIT test' This Thurs. Nov.29-8:00-10:00 at THE CLASSIFIED SECTION OF the one I found, call me (Unda) at4215. for info call1459 YUM. TO 324 FARLEY BY DEC. 3rd. SMC Little Theatre Moreau OBSERVER 
...........................................................:.. " ............................ 
-

The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1984-page 9 
Search goes on for the 'Epic Voice' 
The man with the silky delivery -a are seen in 105 markets by, he es­longtime Philadelphia broadcaster -timates, 9 million viewers. 
Associated Press 
ALL DECEMBER 1985 GRADUATES 
died in September at age 72-Since Many have chosen the same part The letter was from a minister in then, Sabol has received 285 appli­of one of Facenda's dramatic high­
' , 
' 
'REGISTER with Career and Placement Services, (lower Level, Memorial Library) for Spring t 'Semester interviews. 
' • 
, Turn in profiles the week of December 3 for , lnvitationlnvitationallnterviews from Jan. 28 to, Feb.15. 


Petal your Affection 
Dial: 283-4242 ~ 
Hours:12:30-5:30 w~~ttp-6~~~·~~Located in the basement \ 
d-:=:of:-t.La-Fo-rtun_e_GARDENs 
Las Vegas. 
"John Facenda was called the voice ofGod," he wrote: "Well, I am the voice ofGod." 
He sent along tapes of a few ser­mons and "he was pretty good," said Steve Sabol. 
But even his heavenly voice may not be good enough when it comes to replacingJohn Facenda. 
For 20 years, as narrator of Na­tional Football League highlight films, Facenda's dramatic, rich baritone accompanied shots of Jim Brown breaking tackles, Vince Lom­bardi prowling the sidelines and Terry Bradshaw throwing spirals. 
"I called it the 'retreat from Dunkirk voice,"' said Sabol, execu­tive vice president of NFL Films Inc. "It was a very arresting kind ofvoice. There was a timbre, a resonance to it." 
Television viewers who didn't know his name simply addressed their fan mail to "The Voice ofGod" or "The Voice of Doom." 
Belles 
continuedjrompage 12 
the Saints eventually knotted the score at 66. With seven minutes left in the contest, Saint Mary's lost its three tallest players, 5-9 center Ebert, 5-8 junior forward Beth Kreher and 5-9 freshman center Stephanie Duke to fouls. 

cations for a $25,000 to $30,000 job he never advertised. 
"When John died we had to hire another secretary just to handle the calls and all the cassettes," Sabol said during a telephone interview last week from his office in Mount Laurel, N.J. "You can't believe the response I've gotten. Now I know how David 0. Selznick felt when he was casting for Scarlett O'Hara. 
"I've had applications from enter­tainment figures, soap opera actors, race track P.A. announcers, auc­tioneers, talk show hosts." 
The late actor Jon-Erik Hexum, through an agent, inquired about the job before his death, Sabol said. "The Tonight Show" announcer Ed McMahon made a casual pitch, plus "weathermen, high school drama coaches-it's unbelievable." 
"Some of them are real amateurs with barking dogs and washing machines going in the background," said Sabol, whose syndicated shows 
According to Wood, however, the Belles continued to play tough. "We made good adjustments in critical situations," said a pleased Wood. 
In the final eight minutes of the game, Suess responded with some timely outside shooting, while fresh­man forwards Rachel Bir and Donna Wolf pulled down eight and 10 rebounds, respectively. 
Freshman Tammye Radke turned in an overall excellent performance in the fir~t outing ofher Saint Mary's career. The 5-7 guard poured in 22 points while grabbing six rebounds 
light scripts, which were delivered 
to the strains of a 65-piece Munich 
symphony orchestra: 
"Lombardi -a certain magic still 

lingers in the very name. It speaks of 
duels in the snow and cold Novem­
ber mud." 
"If they can say the word 'mud' in 

more than one syllable, mu-dah, 
then they get moved into the next 
category. If not, I throw them out," 
Sabol said with a laugh. 
"I have 'A' pilt"s, 'B' piles and trash piles. There's an epic voice, a storyteller voice and a sportscaster voice. We're looking for an epic voice, one that has enough bottom to cut through the music, someone who has a feeling for the weight and tone ofwords. 
"I want a theatrical voice, I don't want a sportscaster. We don't want regular pro announcers who have done stuff for ABC and NBC. We're more interested in an anonymous voice," Sabol said. 
and handing out six assists. Kreher also contributed to the Saint Mary's cause with 16 points, five rebounds and four assists. 
With a record of 1-1, the Belles will take on Defiance College and Franklin College this weekend at the Goshen College Tournament. 
"We will need to practice free throws and our passing needs im­provement," said Wood. "We pressed the whole game and we will have to do the same at the Goshen tournament. But most of all, our wil­lingness to hustle has to be there, too." 
F...cr..;-....c ::.--....c--.....-...o-.:r.;.:r....o"'J.:)I""..;"'..;"'..;"'..;"'1
I DISCOVER I 
~ §
~ Learn About Yourself, Your ~ § Interests, Abilities and Values §
§ ~ 
i~ The DISCOVER Vocational Guidance Is ~ Program is now available at the office of § Counseling & Psychological Services J: ~ ~ Center, located in the Student Health ~ ~ S Center. Students will find this computer ~ system provides information on both ~ academic and career opportunities. §8 
I Interested students should.:~J 
::r..;-..r..;-..;-..r....o"'...ccr....o"'....cocr..r..r....cY"..;"'....cY"..;"'.....c-'"...........cY"....o""...OCOC 
The College of Business Administration 
presents the 
ARTHUR F. and MARY J. O'NEIL 
speaking series 
Speaker: Joseph P. Brennan 
President ofthe Bituminous Coal Operators' 
Association 
This fall, the Bituminous Coal Operators' Association and 
the United Mine Workers negotiated the first peaceful 
coal settlement since 1964, reflecting the diminishing role 
ofstrikes in collective bargaining in the United States. 
Date: Thursday, November 29, 1984 
12:15 pm.-Faculty seminar, "Changing trends In Collective Bargaining," Board Room, Hayes-Healy 
4:15pm.-Lecture, "New Directions In Industrial Relations," Hayes-Healy Auditorium (room 122) 
You've been study1ng for hours The pages are blurnng and your stomach is stirring. So why not take a break and call Dom1no's Piua? We'll be there with a hot, custom-made p1ua in 30 m1nutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our p1zzas are made w1th 1000-t real dairy cheese and fresh, not frozen, toppongs Now isn't that worth contemplating! 
Menu 
All Pizzas fncfude Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza Domino's Deluxe 5 1tems for the pnce of 4 Pepperon1. Mushrooms. Omans. Green Peppers and Sausage 12" deluxe $ B 55 16" deluxe $12.35 
12" cheese $4 99  ~  
16 cheese $7 19  
'"'  

Electives Pepperom. Mushrooms. Black Olives. Omans. Green Olives. Sausage. Ground Beef. Ham. Green Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Th1ck Crust 12" pizza $ 89 per 1tem 16" p1zza $1 .29 per 1tem 
Coke· 16 oz bottles. 59c 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 
Limited Delivery Area 
Pnces do not •nclude appltcaDie sales ta11 c 1 984 Oomtno ~ P•zza Inc 
r----------------------,
Pay only $5.99 tor a$5.99 12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes·· .
Special 
Expires in one week. 
Fast, F111e DeliveryTM Plaza 23 Center 
183!> South Bend Ave. South Bend Phone: 277·2151 
~:.e;;&\ JTC NA 103 2650 
L••••••••••••••••••••••J 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ FREE. 


The Observer Wednesday, November 28, 1984-page 10 
Tougher competition is needed 
NOTICE:
Wrestlers rout Olivet-Nazarene 
To all who would like to use the Nazz or 
ByJOE BRUNETTI 
Sports Writer 
When a team destroys an op­ponent, it seems, at least from the sports fan's point of view, that it Is the best thing possible for the team. However, from a coach's point of view, destroying an opponent isn't always that helpful. 
Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran McCann doesn't see much benefit in his team's 46-6 trouncing over Olivet Nazarene during the Thanks­giving Holiday. 
"There isn't much benefit (in beating a team like that)," says the first year mentor. "The only benefit is for the young kids. They get a little taste ofsuccess." 
The days of Notre Dame taking on patsies like Olivet Nazarene are coming to an end. McCann wants to turn the Irish into a wrestlingpower, and teams like Olivet Nazarene aren't going to help Notre Dame reach the top 10. 
"Next year we are going to replace Olivet Nazarene with Mic­higan and Michigan State," said McCann. "We have to totally upgrade our schedule; there are going to be a lot ofschedule changes made. We have to compete against top-20 level schools." 
Olivet Nazarene earned its only points of the meet when the Irish were forced to forfeit the heavywieght match because both of McCann's heavyweights .are still playing football. After the football season ends McCann hopes to fill the heavyweight spot with either senior Mike Golic or freshman Dominic Prinzivalli. 
Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 
for the Irish. W aldbillig also knocked in two goals. 
Notre Dame led, 4-2, after the first period. But the second stanza was all Alaska as it capitalized five times to take a 7-3lead. 
Three more goals in the final per­Iod sealed the victory for the visitors. Chapman had the lone Irish goals in the final two periods. Both Waldbillig scores came in the first period. 
Chapman again banged in two 
University ofNotre Dame 
Foreign Study 
Programs 
Tianjin, China 

Summer 1985 Jane 10-Aagast 1 

Tianjin Program Overview 
Six week Acpdemlc Sq•ion: Courses In Chinese Language and Culture, Including opportunities for lndluldual andgroup 
ulslts to nearby sites ofcultural, Industrial, agricultural interest ... 6 Notre Dame credits 
Jwo Week Tgyr: VIsits to Important places In People's Republic ofChina, conducted by facull}l ofTlanjln Foreign Languages Institute. 
Cost: 12,800(tuition, room, board, tour, and International airfare) 
Satellite Room 242, O'Shaughnessy 
Wednesday, November 28 6:30pm Undergrads Grads Faculty 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 
Application forms and further information available in Foreign Study Programs Office, 420 Admin bldg 
The rest of the matches proved to be easy victories for the Irish with the closest scare coming at 158 where freshman Dan Carrigan won a close one, 2-1. However, it was Car­rigan's match that most impressed McCann. 
"I have been most impressed with Dan Carrigan," said McCann. "He's undefeated and he has shown real poise for a freshman." 
In fact, the majority of McCann's lineup contains underclassmen. Sophomore Greg Fleming won an easy match by the score of 23-7. Two freshmen were victorious at 126 and 134. John Sheehy won by forfeit at 126, while Ron Wisniewski was victorious by the margin of 1 0­
2. Sophomore monogram winner Scott Biasetti continued the win streak by posting a 12-3 decision. Sophomore Tom Ryan rounded out the victories for the underclassmen by pinning Bob Colvert at 121. McCann has been extremely pleased with Ryan, who didn't compete in a match last year because ofinjury. 
"Tgm Ryan has shown tremen­dous imrovement at 167," praised McCann. "He's been a pleasant surprise. He's actually wrestling as a freshman eligibility-wise." 
McCann feels that it is important for him to wrestle a younger lineup because the future of the program lies in the hands of his younger wrestlers. 
"You've got to give the young kids the experience," says McCann. "They're going to get a rude awaken­ing later on in the season when we face more difficult opponents. I'd rather work with the younger kids 
goals on Friday night. Waldbillig, Thebeau and Mike McNeill had the other three Notre Dame tallies. 
Deadlocked, 2-2, at the first inter­mission, the stalemate continued through the second period and the teams left the ice knotted at 4-4. But a brief defensive lapse by the Irish early in the final stanza led to two Falcon goals in 23 seconds starting at 5:04 to seal the Notre demise. Thebeau's goal at 8:26 kept the Irish within one, but couldn't connect again. 
The next action for Notre Dame comes this weekend when it plays host to Alabama-Huntsville. 
because that's where our future lies." 
Upperclassmen Luke DiSabato, John Krug and captain Phil Baty pro­vided the scoring for the juniors and seniors of the squad by winning their matches at 150, 190 and 167, respectively. Krug has been forced to wrestle up from last year's weight of 167 because of an injury to Matt Stamm and the first semester in­eligibility ofGeorge Logsdon. 
Today the Irish will travel to Adrian, Mich., to try and extend their win record against Siena Heights and Olivet. Last year the Irish posted a 27-17 victory over Siena Heights, a team McCann feels the Irish should beat by a larger mar­gin than last year. 
In the other half of the tri-meet Notre Dame will face Olivet, which McCann calls a "legitimate school." If the Irish have any problems ex­tending their season mark to 3-0 it will most likely come from Olivet. 
"I'll be extremely disappointed If we don't win both," cautions McCann. "If we go out with confi­dence and have a good attitude about winning we should have no trouble." 
The only change in the Irish lineup will come at 142 where senior Don Heintzelman will replace Biasetti. The Irish will prob­ably forfeit the heavyweight m::;tch unless those matches will make a dif­ference in the win column, but McCann doesn't think it will come down to that. 
the Chautauqua Ballroom ... 
For your convenience, request forms have been developed and are located in the Student Activities Board Office on the Second Floor of Lafortune... All those who would like to request the use of the Nazz or Chautauqua must complete a form one week and one day prior to the night of the event so that we may publicize & schedule the event. 
Thank you, 
The Student Activities Board 
GIVE SOMEONE A TAN·· FOR CHRISTMAS 


Ask aboufour X-Mas special8. 
TAN....HAWAIIAN 
sun tonnirg solon 
2n-1026 

J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 
VISA & MASTERCARD 

T0 day___________________w_e_d_n_e_sd_a_y_,N_o_ve_m_b_er_2_s_,_I_9_8_4~-p-ag_e_l_l 
PLANTS••PLANTS••PIANTS••PLANTS••PLANTS•• PLANTS I 
for late night munchies
r---------------------------------9I FORYOUR I PlANT NEEDs ~'t\s 1 
Gp$0 I 
DIAL 283-4242 
1 

Mpn-Sat 12:30-5:30 I -Order corsag~s and wrapped flowers in advance.!1 
Doonesbury 

OH, YtAH'r 
WHY NOT'' 

\ • 'C 
Tank McNamara 

BIOOtn Connty Berke Breathed 
WEJ.l. TIE l?llJNEeSH 1511E 1RIIT1f.. IWfJ TIE 1Rflflll~ 11E U&Hr.. WHICH I~ t.lft. t.IF6'1) 1RIIffl /.IGHr. IWP Hllf'Pfll€55. WHICH 16 Wli/!1?/NG 1?6P f'!M111111~ IINP (J(..dWff./& K155!5 1tJWIIf(P f!!HIIGWAN'S 
lf3 (,(J(.p ROU5 
f?IJYct~. 


Garry Trudeau 
Her: I 5T7U HAVe MY OAMMIT, MAN, 5a1SC a=HUMOR.! 8AR.-7Hiir's IJ.IPRO-ucv lAIlN 
UNIAif3() R35/0NAiJ A ,.,.,,.,.., ' 
7ENPERJWHAPOA )')l CALL ANICARA611AN M/6? 6/Vf3 MJTHfRS, G{X)OBAirEN-~'1/f:
UP? A PHAN1lJM JET! 58% 7{) ~ LAU6H5 " 42%.. ANYWAYI 
\ "' '7"" 


"Wendell ... I'm not content." 
• 

41 Buffalo 53 Windy City: 44 Western state abbr. capital 54 Owns 46 Brainstorm 55 Isle 
49 Apprehension 56 Small weights: 
50 Put on freight abbr. 51 Privy to 57 Antique auto 52 In a lazy way 58 Cover 
Tuesday's Solution 


©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reser\'ed 11/28/84 
/N. 

-, """ 
Campus 
•12 
-1 p.m. -Lecture, "The United Nations as a Regulator of Private Enterprise," Dr. Murray Weidenbaum, Former Chairman ofCouncil ofEco­nomic Advisors, Law School Student Lounge, Sponsored by Thomas). White Center on Law and Government, Free. 

•'5 
· 7 p.m.-Bike Storage, For All Bikes Registered at Lost & Found ( 121 Administration Building), Gate 14, Stadium. 

•6: 
1'5 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 

•6:30 
p.m.-Tianjin Program Overview, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Foreign Studies Program. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters International, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•7 
p.m. -Wednesday Night Film Series , "Anatomy of a Murder," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -Film, "Arthur," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Also lbursday, $1.'50. 

• 
7 p.m. -Informational Meeting, Springbreak Ski Extravaganza, Room 2D, LaFortune, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•7 
p.m.-General Meeting, International Students Organization, ISO Lounge, LaFortune Basement. 

•7 
· 9 p.m.-Presentation, First National Bank of Chicago, For All A&L Seniors, Alumni Room, Mor­ris Inn, Free. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "Mary and the Saints: What Ro.l e Do They Play in the Church?" Rev. Edward O'Connor, ND, Little Hteatre, LaFortune, Sponsored hy Pope john Paul II Lecture Series. 

•8 
p.m. -Perspectives Series in Philosophy Lecture , "The Invention of Autonomy," jerome Schneewind, Biology Auditorium. 


TV Tonight 
I 

7:00p.m. 16 M0A0S0H 
22 Three's Company 
7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 2 
22 WKRP In Cincinnati 
8:00p.m. 16 Highway to Heaven 
22 Charles In Charge 
28 Fall Guy 
34 The Brain 
8:30p.m. 22 E.R. 
22 Movie 
28 Dynasty 
34 Survival Special 
9:30p.m. 16 It's Your Move 
10:00 p.m. 16 St. Elsewhere 

The Daily Crossword 
33 Medieval 50 52 9 National ACROSS "mightily" 53 Irritate park 56 World's larg­34 King of the est island 10 Hatchet 
Huns 59 Isr. port 11 Strife 1 Dugout 35 Central 60 Intend 12 WWII craft 5 Former crooner European 61 Falsegod 15 Powder base 9 Small sailboat 36 Barbecue bar 62 Adherents: 17 -with envy 
13 Glance suff. 21 Profess 14 Cantata melody 37 River Into the 63 Wading bird 22 "The-of 15 Austin's state Danube 64 Refute Dover" 
38 Flooring piece 23 Fall back 16 The-State 39 Whine 24-Glasgow (Kentucky) 40 Solar disc 25 In poor health 
DOWN18 Watchful 41 Blunder 19 Before Sun. 42 Author Waugh 26 "Rose of-" 
43 Communications 1 Vestments 27 Cuts 

co.

20 Mapabbr. 2 Gaucho's 28 One of the 21 Total weapon Three Kings of 22 Tiny 44 Depends (on) 3 Defeat Cologne 23 Minuteman's 45 Traffic stopper 4 DOE 
foes 5 Trade 29 Glass bulb 28 Assemble 47 Native: suff. 6 "Dies-" 30 Followed 31 Tree 48 Small fish 7 Serbian city 34 Letter 32 Message 49 Zlegfeld 8 Petrol 37 NCO 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

S)}orts 
Wednesday, November 28, 1984-page 12 
Big Ten foes provide true tests for Irish 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writec 
Irish Items 


Hello again, everybody! 

As the curtain closes on the regular season for the football team, it's time to lace up the sneakers, pull up the socks, and get ready for basketball season. However, there's a quick note of unfinished busi­ness which needs to be taken care ofimmediately. 
Hats off to Gerry Faust and the Notre Dame footbaU team! This reporter will certainly admit that prior to the LSU game, anybody who would have suggested Notre Dame would go to a bowl this year would have been given a one-way ticket to the funny farm. Th~ team showed confidence and poise, though, and they pulled through with four consecutive wins to earn an Aloha Bowl bid. Sure, 7-4 is not the record anybody had hoped for at the beginning of the year, but let's give some credit to this football team, because they have earned it by continuing to fight when most people had given up on them. 
Saturday, however, put an end to a six-game losing
However, now it's time to concentrate on basketball action. Dig­
streak, and the outlook is much brightergoing into
ger Phelps' squad has already notched its first victory of the season 
this weekend's action againstAlabama-Huntsville.
on Sunday night over Manhattan, but it wasn't as easy as manypeople 
Ed Domansky reviews last week's actton_below. 
expected it to be. The Irish struggled through the first half, but used a pesky defense and superior strength to come away with a com­fortable 1 5-point victory. Now the Irish can go to school on what 
Ends six-game losing streak 
they learned against the jaspers and correct their mistakes. While Sunday was the equivalent ofa pop quiz for the Irish, a pair of true tests are on tap during the next six days as two Big Ten foes 
Hockey team survives rough Break
visit the ACC hardwood. Northwestern, a team which has puzzled the Irish for the last two years, comes in tomorrow night looking for 
By ED DOMANSKY The Irish inconsistency stems "It really felt great to be back," he 
another upset. After the Irish meet St. Francis ( Pa.) on Saturday after­
Sports Writer from an inability to play the body on said. "I just wish that we could iron 
noon, they take on their first Top-20 team of the season next Tues­
defense as well as difficulties moving out all ofour little problems and win 
day when Indiana comes into town for the renewal of a fierce 
The Notre Dame hockey team has the puck. "Overall, our team defense like we know we can." 
intra-state battle. 

scored 20 goals in itS last five games. hasn't been very good," said head ln Saturday's victory Tom So the first question on this week's exam is ... What do the Irish Unfortunately, its last three oppo­coach Lefty Smith. "It's not good Mooney paced the Notre Dame at­have to do to beatNorthwestern? nents, St. Thomas, Alaska-Anchorage enough to swing at the puck -we tack, scoring three goals and adding 
Merely showing up isn't the answer, as the last two years have and Air Force have capitalized 39 have to take out the man. In goal we an assist including the tying tally unfortunately proven. Rich Falk's team went 12-16 last year, but times, and the Irish have lost four of just haven't been able to stop the with just nine seconds remaining. don't blame the defense. The Wildcats only gave up 54.2 points per those last five games. puck from going in. We also need Steve Whitmore hit the winner at game last season, and the Irish will have to work hard for almost Over the Thanksgivi11g holidays, more scoring balance and forec­the 7:20 mark of the overtime per­
every basket. Notre Dame played host to Alaska hecking." iod. Co-captain Brent Chapman, Tim The key to this game may be rebounding, as Northwestern has and Air Force. The Sea Wolves took Reilly and Jeff Badalich also scored good size in the front line with 6-10 forward Andre Goode and 6-9 advantage of sloppy Irish goaltend­Smith also was not pleased with for the Irish. forward John Peterson. At the pivot, Falk can go with a pair ofseven­ing to come away with a 10-6 victory the work of the Irish powerplay. Air Force clung to a 1-0 lead after footers in Colin Murray and Brian Pitts, but both are inexperienced. last Wednesday night. Notre Dame converted on three out one period. At the second intermis­Still, the Irish frontcourt performers will have their hands full tomor­The Falcons from the Air Force of 10 man-advantage opportunities sion the two teams were deadlocked row night. Academy then arrived for Friday and in the series. "Thirty percent is not at 2-2. Ifit's a close game, though, the Irish have the advantage in the free Saturday contests. Air Rlrce nabbed bad, but we had chances that should throw shooting department. Northwestern laid more bricks than a a 6-5 decision in the series opener, have resulted in goals," said Smith. With just 4: 19 left to play the Irish construction crew last year, only shooting 60 percent from the but the Irish bounced back in the "Again, a lot comes from not moving trailed, 6-4. Mooney's second goal charity stripe. Still, Notre Dame would rather not have to worry finale and salvaged a 7-6 overtime the puck very well, and against bet­made it 6-5 at 18:17. After Notre about getting in a free throw contest, and it shouldn't be a problem if triumph. ter teams we have to take advantage Dame pulled Lukenda for the extra the Irish dominate the inside game. Saturday's win laid to rest a six­ofall our opportunities." attacker with 22 seconds to play, Question No. 2 ... What players must the Irish stop against St. game Notre Dame losing streak Mooney then evened the score at Francis (Pa.)? which started three weeks ago at The three-game homestand 19:51. Well, the best playerfor St. Francis may be the coach-former NBA Michigan-Dearborn. "We keep marked the return ofco-captain Bob Wednesday night joey Hayse' star Kevin Porter. Porter led the league in assists four times while having little lapses that keep us from Thebeau. He had been out ofaction scored the hat trick and added an as­modeling uniforms for Washington, Detroit and New jersey, but all putting it all together," said Tim with a shoulder injury since the sist to pace the Sea Wolf triumph. his on-coun talent isn't going to help the Red Flash. Lukenda. "We've gone far enough. Dearborn games. In the three games, Chapman had two goals and an assist What St. Francis needs is height, and forwards Jeff Hamilton ( 6-4) The learning should be over. I think Thebeau added one goal and four as­and joe Sharkey ( 6-6) just don't have enough of it to go against a the win on Saturday will help get us sists as well as leadership on the Irish see HOCKEY, page 10 team like Notre Dame. The most exciting player to watch for St. going on the right track." blueline. Francis will be 6-3 guard Napoleon Lightning, but Lightning will have to strike more than twice if the Red Flash are to pull off an electrifying upset. 
Belles begin basketball season impressively 
Question No. 3 ... Can any coaches boxboldbackBobKnightand Digger Phelps? 
with road win and hard-fought home loss 
No, and there will be no holding back when Indiana and Notre 
Dame go at it Tuesday night in what should be an outstanding game. 
peared to be keeping up with Hunt­game that was so close," said seniorThese two coaches are good friends off the court, but it will be a war By PAM CUSICK and ington's fast-paced play. Betsy Ebert. "The freshman and off­after the opening tip-off as Phelps tries to outwit the 1984 U.S. Olym­KELLY PORTOLESE · "We're a little tense because this the-bench people did a super job,"
pic mentor. Sports Writers is our first home game. Huntington she added.
The Hoosiers may not have looked that good against Louisville on is one of the better teams on our Last week, the Belles notched a
The Saint Mary's basketball team schedule, but I'm pleased with our season-opening win over SienaSaturday, but don't let that game fool you. Knight's club is loaded 
fought an impressive battle before performance," said Wood. Heights by the score of 75-70 inwith talent, starting with sophomore Olympian Steve Alford at guard 
falling to Huntington College, 79-77, "We're not handling the ball very Adrian, Mich. 
who will be looking to fill it up from the perimeter. On the inside, 
last night in overtime at the Angela well," said Huntington Head Coach "I was well pleased with the per­Knight has a bevy ofbig people who can go to the boards, led by 7-2 Athletic Facility. The Belles were Freeman, after first-half competi­formance of these young ladies,"center Uwe Blab. 
coming off a 75-70 road victory over
An added bonus in this game are some ofthe individual matchups. 
tion. "We're not playing very intel­Wood said. "It was a good win. Siena 
the Siena Heights Saints in their
First, there's a battle offiery redheads in the lane as Blab battles with lectually." was much taller than we were but
season opener last week. 

Irish center Tim Kempton. In the backcourt, many people are an­The Belles showed determination we just seemed to have moreticipating a contest between freshmen David Rivers of Notre Dame 
Last season, Huntington College 
and strength in the final five minutes desire."
and Delray Brooks of Indiana, but another exciting matchup could 
placed second overall in the NAIA 
of the game in their attempt to Despite the fact that their oppo­exist between a pairofHoosier natives as Alford takes on Scott Hicks. 
District Tournament. 

capture their first home win of the nents had three girls over the 6-foot Pickofthe Week ... Swimming in November? Maybe in the South, season. mark, the Belles jumped out to a
However, the Belles' team effort but not in South Bend, you say? Well, guess again, folks, because the "We played a great game," said quick 18-5 lead in the first four
seemed to overcome this setback by exhibiting consistency throughout
Notre Dame women's swimming team plunges into its 1984-85 senior forward Elaine Suess. "I don't minutes of the game. Siena Heights its entire showdown with Hunting­
season this Friday at the Rockne Memorial Pool when it plays host to feel like we lost. If we are playing then switched to a zone defense but the Notre Dame Relays at 7 p.m. ton. this well during our second game, Saint Mary's was not intimidated and 
Coach Dennis Stark's young team will be looking to defend its "It takes team effort and we've got we are going to have a great season." held on to a 42-39 advantage at the North Star Conference championship this season, but they will need it," said head coach Marvin Wood. Some of her teammates hated to half. suppon from co-captains joAnne Pearl and Venette Cochiolo. They "We played our game, and I like the lose in overtime by such a close In the second half, the Belles could also use some fan support, so go on down to the Rock Friday way we hung in there." score, however. began to get into foul trouble and night and cheer the ladies on. Trailing by a 35-34 margin at the "They beat us by a lot last year. 
end of the first half, Saint Mary's ap-You hate to lose in overtime and in a see BELLES, page 9 
-





