Irish Extra -page 9 
N azz tries program. changes; music contest date to change 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL will be vying for prizes ranging trom Within the last three years, StaffReporter $200 for the winner to $2S for the however, the Nazz has experienced fourth runner-up. Judging the talent a steadily declining audience and a 
The Nazz will undergo several will be a pannel offive led by Father decrea.o;e in popularity. Groups and changes in its program this spring as William Beauchamp. The five top individuals still perform there on the part of a rehabilitation effort by its acts will return the following night weekends, but they perform in front management. Plans include moving for the traditional "Winners Night," ofsmall or nonexistent audiences. its traditional music competition Molinsky said. from early April to Feb. l. Another proposed addition to the The people who attend the per­
Junior Sarah Molinsky, marketing Nazz this spring is "a steady flow of formances do so mainly because of director for the Nazz, said, "We're entertainment" for at least three their interest in a particular act or trying to attract more attention to nights a week -Thursday thru Satur­friendship with a particular per­the Nazz. We want to highlight the day, Molinsky said. Acts will include former, Kennedy said. way that it used to he in the 1970s the Notre Dame Jazz Band, student when, on any given night, 150 players, poetry readings, and talent Kennedy, a graduate student in people would pack into that little shows, in addition to regular group the Economics department who place." and solo musical acts. performs regularly in the Nazz and 
The Nazz has provided. singers, in­around South Bend, believes that the 

The Nazz management is headed strumentalists, comedians, poets, Nazz deserves more notoriety and by sophomore Joe Fontana, musical and other performers a forum for faults past management for its cur­entertainment commissioner for the displaying their talents since it was rent plight. student activities board. Fontana, re­built in the late 1960's. It has also "When I was an undergraduate, 
sponsible for the promotion of provided members of the Notre the Nazz was one of the established "student-sponsored" concerts on Dame community with entertain­social events on campus," said Ken­campus, hired Molinsky, a marketing ment and an escape from the pre­nedy. "Now, if I sing, I can draw my student, to market and revitalize the ssures of academic life without own audience which comes in to see Nazz, which is located in the base­leaving the campus. ' me. In the past, you came into the ment of the LaFortune Student Cen­"The talent is always here and the Nazz-you didn't even bother to look ter. people who want to hear the talent at the posters to see who was sing­
Molinsky and Fontana said they are always here," explained John ing. 
moved the competition in order to Kennedy, Irish folk sjnger and fre­"The Nazz Is dead. It doesn't exist. The Obscrver/Cha.Jtanya Panchal attract attention to the Nazz and to quenter ofthe Nazz. "There's no bet­It's been grotesquely mismanaged the groups performing. "Because it ter environment to perform in. for the last three years. The people
Deck the Library 

will be held so early, people will be People come for one thing -to hear who have been in charge of the Nazz 
Ubrar;• workt>rs added a dash of the holiday season to the exposed to the acts and return to the you sing. The environment is per­have not been interested in it. Mmwrla/ Library when they put a Chrlshnas tree In Its lobby. This Nazz to hear them perform through­fect, the lighting couldn't be better, They've been quality people, capa­Is tbeflrst tree ever put In the library In its 20years ofexistence. The out the semester," Molinsky said. the stage is wonderful, and the ble of doing tile work, but they 
l.lbrary staffdonated the decorations. Participants in the competition sound system is first-rate." didn't care," Kennedy said. 

Brademas talks on the separation of religion and politics 
By KELLY O'NEIL 

Brademas thought seriously about peacefully with people who we con­a working concensus of matters of Brademas has received degrees 
NewsSWff 

becoming a Methodist minister or a sider, by our own standards of right public morality. from Harvard and Oxford Univer­
"I have never understood the politician but he joked that "It and wrong, sinners." He then "There is no one clear absolute sities and had served as an Indiana doctrine ofseparation ofchurch and would be politics either way." delivered three guidelines which root," said Mario Cuomo earlier this congressman for twenty-two years state to mean that religion does not He empha.'iized the importance of may be helpful for people who are year. Bradema.o; used this quote to before becoming president of New affect politics," saki John Brademas, applying limitations to the place of trying to gut their religious and poli­convey the idea behind the York University in 1981. He L'i also president of New York University, faith in public life. Brademas tical beliefs in perspective with guidelines he has drawn up "based currently a member of the Board of la.'it night as he spoke on the relation­stressed that religious faith must respect to each other. on my own personal experience." Trustees of Notre Dame. His speech ship between religion and politics in touch every part ofhuman existance The first guideline stressed the He also stated that those who mix was part of an annual lecture series today's society. throughout his hour long speech. importance of the level of religious religion and politics must exercise a sponsored by an endowment to the 
Bradema.'i began by discussing "The question is how religion affects convictions that are applied in certain degree ofself-restraint. Theology Department by Burt Uss. 
how his own religious background politics not whether it affects public debate. The second advised 
affected his political career. At one politics," he said. that tolerance and humility must be 
point during his college career Brademas said,"We must live excerdsed.The third guideline was 


Electronic bulletin board available for students' computer messages 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI quence" is initiated to offer a "help" The Leprechaun provides a list of News Staff command to new users. all bulletin boards across the United The user can read one of three States. A "download board" allows 
Most students consider the bulletin hoards , leave a message, or users to log into a variety ofdifferent leprechaun the ma.'icot of the directly send or respond to educational programs. Flghtin' Irish; hut, to computer el~ctronlc mail. Mail is a.ddressed by users. the Leprechaun is an name and can be read only by the "The only difficulty with the sys­dectronic bulletin hoard provided individual to whom it is addressed. tem is that only one person can use it by the office of the Assistant Provost On the Lepre<.·haun are a Macin­at a time, but it i~ open to use 24 for Computing. tosh board especially for Macintosh hours a day," said Wheeler. 
"The bulletin hoard Is frt•e to all users, a main bulletin board, and a members of the university commu­campus hoard. The system was set up in the fall of nity and to the South Bend commu­"Practically anything is posted on -1982 by the Assistant Provost as an nity at large," said Suzanne Wheeler, these boards, including discussions expriment to see the response to a Automated Office Systems Special­ofcampus news and Items for sale or computer network and an ist. purchase," said Wheeler. "lbe sys­electronic mailing service. The As­
Acommunications software pa<.·k· tem is used largely for communica­sistant Provost is considering a more age and a modem are needed to use tion between students, extensive communications network the Leprechaun. By calling the townspeople, and computer hack­that would connect the residence Leprechaun telephone number ers. The user list numbers 450, but halls to a wide range of educational ( .239-S87S ), the "newuser logon se-only 100 are active users," she said. resources, Wheeler said. 
Union Carbide provides tours to allay fears of gas 
Assoclated Press allowed to enter the Institute plant since the Dec. 2 disaster In 
INSTITIJTE, W.VA. -Union India. Carbide officials yesterday took Asked if he could guarantee reporters on a tour of their only the safety of the 150,000 resi­
U.S. facility that produces methyl dents of nearby Charleston and isocyanate, and expressed confi­the surrounding Kanawha Valley, dence they can avoid a disaster Carbide health and environmen­like the gas leak that killed more tal director Jackson Browning than 2,000 people in India. said that "the company's track A small army of reporters record of safety and a healthy 
heard repeated assurances from respect we maintain for this company spokesmen that al­chemical" speak for themselves. though the Institute facility is I 0 times larger than Union Carbide's Institute plant manager Henry plant at Bhopal, India, the chemi­Karawan noted that Carbide has cal is safely contained here in been maklng methyl isocyanate three underground tanks. here for 17 years. He said he 
Carbide stopped producing thinks the company's safety methyl isocyanate In Institute, procedures, such as an extra some 1 0 miles west of Charles­holding tank, scrubbers and ton, the day after the Indian leak. flares, would protect nearby resi­Yesterday's tour marked the first dents from an accident similar to time reporters have been the one at Bhopal. 

The Observer Wednesday, December 12, 1984 -page 2 


In Brie£ 
Freslunan Brad Pattelll,ofFianner Hall, recently received the Italian American Chamber of Commerce of Chicago A ward. While accepting the award, Pattelli said he was proud to be a representative of the Italian population at Notre Dame. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame United Way goal of 
SI62,000 has been surpassed by $3,000. The amount is the greatest amount collected in the history of the United Way at Notre Dame.­
The Obseroer 
Mister Rogers' Neighborhood'stheme song 
will no longer be heard in Ohio. Each morning for three months, Larry Nudelman tapped into the public address system at the Perry nuclear power plant in North Perry, Ohio to play the lilting theme song. But plant officials decided he went too far when he played the song during an emergency drill, so they ordered security guards to hunt him down. Last week Nudelman was fired by an electrical con-· tractor at the unfinished plant. The tune caught on so well that it became an unofficial theme for plant employees. Nudelman said it boosted morale, and workers began greeting each other by saying, "Hi, neighbor." -AP. 
Of Interest 
Cars staying on campusover the holiday may be parked in the D-2lot beginning Dec. 19, the last day offinals. Secur· ity will patrol the parking area throughout break. -The Obseroer 
The Center for Social Concerns will spon­
sor a bake and gift sale tomorrow afternoon from 3 until 5. Handmade gifts from the women of Latin America will be sold and homemade bakery goods will be served. All proceeds will benefit the homes of the women. -The Obseroer. 
Auditions for both the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame Collegiate Choir will be held on the following dates: Monday, Dec. 17 from 1 -4 p.m., Tuesday, Dec. 18 from 1-3 p.m., Monday, Jan. 14 from 12-4p.m. and Tuesday,Jan. 15 from 12 -4 p.m. All auditions will be held in Room 308, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's. No preparation is necessary. Women's Choir rehearses Mopday through Thursday from 5 to 6 p.m., and Collegiate Choir on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday from 6 to 7 p.m. -The Obseroer 
The 1985 Nazz Entertainment Compe­
tition, to be held Feb. 1 and 2, will offer a 5200 first prize. Entry forms are now available in the student activities office on the second floor of LaFortune. There is a S5 entry fee. -The Obseroer 
In need Ofmoney?The Financial Aid Form is out. All students who want to apply for aid from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, a state scholarship and grant program and federal student financial aid programs, including the Pell Grant Program must file a FAF before March 1. Get a headstart and start completing the form during Christmas break, or ask your parents to do so. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
A 40 percent chance of rain mixed wfth snow today with temperatures fal­ling into the mid 30s. Tonight, partly cloudy with lows in the mid 20s. 

The Observer. 
The Obsen'er (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsen'er Is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S 20 per se­mester) by writing The Obsen'er, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obsen'er is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................. Maureen Murphy Design Assistant... ........................ Andy Saal Typesetters ..................................... Vic SciuUl 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor ............................... Mark Potter Copy Editor.................................... Uz Miller Sports Copy Editor ....................... Phll Wolf Sports Special Layout .......... Chris Bowler 
Mike Sullivan Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout......................... Bob Henke NDDayEditor ............................. Eari Baker SMC Day Editor......... Anne Monastyrski Ad Design .................... AnnaMarie Furlelgh 
John O'Connor 


American Express is one of the benefits of a college diploma 
This column is my farewell to Notre Dame. 
I'm graduating at the end of this semester, and th.is is probably the last chance I will have to use The Obseroer as my personal soapbox. 
Because I'm a math major, I don't believe that it's my responsibility to fill this page with deathless prose. The natural tendency of Inside columnists in the past has been to ramble on, thanking everyone, reminiscing about their years "under the Dome" and waxing philosophical about the future. I think it most fitting, however, to recognize those who have done the most to bring home, at least to me, the reality of my gradua­tion. 
Thank you, American Express. 
Finally, after three-and-a-half years, I can fulfill a long­time dream. I have accepted "future career-oriented employment at $10,000 or more" and am eligible to fill out an application for an American Express card. 
You may think it rather crass of me to think about money (or rather, credit) at this sentimental turning point in my life. Maybe, but I'm just being practical. After living under the benevolent dictatorship of the administration and having all my needs met (including some I wasn't even aware of), I thought it 'would be nice to have some· one else looking out for me as I face the hard, cruel world. 
American Express has promised a world of con­venience. Their card is ac­cepted at fine hotels and restaurants around the world. I'm also assured that their card will help me live within my means (something I have had trouble with these past few years). And as if that weren't enough, I find that I'm not out of luck when I'm out of cash. Just flash the card and businesses will be falling all over themselves just for the honor of cashing my checks ("often up to Sl,OOO"). As ifthat weren't enough, there are more than 1,000 American Express Travel Service offices ready to help me with virtually every travel problem. 
And there is much, much more -such as their emer­gency medical treatment payment service and a special toll-free number for quick, expert customer assistance. 
And I haven't even mentioned American Express Travellers' Cheques. (Why is it that Karl Malden is al­ways around when somebody loses theirs?) 
All this for only S35 a year. And to think what Notre Dame charged . . . People constantly ask, "Can one place a value on a Catholic education." I usually don't like to take sides in 
Kevin Williams 
Systems Manager 
Inside Wednesday 

debates of this nature, but let me say this: Notre Dame sold me one for a fiXed, non-negotiable price. IBM will be leasing it at a mutually agreed-upon price. End of debate. 
But I digress. 
More than just a convenience, my American Express card, affectionately referred to as AMEX by creditors everywhere, is a symbol of my new responsibilities: I can run up a huge bill on my Sears or Wards cards and be content, comforted by the knowledge that my bill 
only will be $10.00 a month or 4.5 percent of the out­standing bill, whichever is greater. Not so with Ameri­can Express. I have to pay the full amount each month. Granted, there is no service charge, but still I have to re· member to plan my expen­ditures around paycheck.<>, rent and car payments. 
In the past, bounced checks were not the end of the world. I knew that in the future I would have a chance to start over with a relatively clean credit rating. Not any more. This is it. The big time. 

And if I'm really daring, I can get American Express cards for qualified members of my household. I think my dad knew what he was doing when he passed up this generous offer. I hope I will have his foresight when my kids want credit cards. And speaking ofparents . . . Thank you, Mom and Dad. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board orThe Observer staff. 



SENIORS 
MAKE YOUR-NEXT STEP COUNT 
Unitedway 
When you are considering options for next year, 
OUR GOAL 
don't forget: 
I$2.9oo.ooo I 
90 70 50 
10 


TOGO: 
$147,533 
Mary Ann Roemer
Let's Bring It In 
Center for Social Concerns 
By December 18th! 
239-7949 
M.J. Murray Associate Office 
239-5521 

-~ 
The Observer Wednesday, Dec~mber 12, 1984-page 3 

Heading home Americans Charles Kaper, left, and john Costa wave as they board an Iranian airliner in Tehran 
ND to participate in college computer link 
By MARY CAROL CREADON 
SentorStaffReporter 
The Student Senate recently passed a resolution calling for the University to become a member of the American Association ofUniver· sity Students. The AAUS, said Stu· dent Body President Robert Bertino, is 'a computer network of univer· sities across the nation.' 
Through a computer system the 63 universities involved in the AAUS exchange with each other informa· tion concerning education, student government, and student life. In ad· dltion to providing a comparative analysis of a university area, the sys· tern can be used as a guide to suc· cessfully implement programs from one campus to another. 
Student Government will have to pay a$200 membership fee and buy a telephone modem for $1 00 that 
can be hooked up to the existing 
computer system of Student Gov· yesterday on their way home following their six· ernment In order to join the AUUS day hijacking ordeal aboard a Kuwaiti jetliner. system. The benefits ofbeing a mem· 
APPboto 
The Perfect Christmas Gift: THE NEW YORK TIMES 
Get a subscription to the World's~1 Newspaper for only 35c a day -Buy one for your roommate, friend, or sweetheart -Buy one for yourself 
* Get your parents to pay for it over break. Just use the Green order form Santa left at your door, and if you need an extra, call Santa's Little Helper. 
Homesickfor••• hot cookies~ pine trees and the.fire glow? 
COOKIE BAKE and WASSAIL 
Thursday, December 13 
3-5 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS HOLIDAY OPEN HOUSE 
• MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ALL! 
f~ NICK & KENNY'S f~ f *SPECIALS* f 
: :
!MONDAY ......... PITCHERS $2.95 : :TUESDAY ...... LITILE KINGS 2 I $1 : ~WEDNESDAY..........IMPORTS $1 ~iTHURSDAY............... 25~ BEER i tFRIDAY & SATURDAY ....... BANDS ~ ~ & ASSORTED SPECIALS t 
~ ~ tit  (Formerly Niclcie's)  ~ ~ ~:;  
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME  
2-bedroom furnished apartments  
Available ... Winter semester... convenient ... spacious ... Laundry facilities ... plentiful parking ... superior maintenence ...  
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: (219) 234-6647  

ber ofAAUS include day to day com· munication conducted by electronic mall, a newsletter, a news service, a research service, and Na· tional Student Organization Direc· tory. 
Bertino said the information that will be entered into the network concerning Notre Dame will be such things as the constitution, stu· dent government services, the stu· dent general store, and Student Activities Board projects. The pro· gram will be under the jurisdiction ofOBUD, Bertino said, since it is ba· sically an informational service. 
For the first three years, Student Government will receive the com· puter time on the netork for free, but after that, Student Government will be charged for the computer time. Bertino said that Is the only possible drawback of joining the AAUS. The Student Government will do an an· nual analysis of the cost of the com· puter time to determine whether It will want to continue its member· ship. 
ND junior found dead 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
NewsEdttor 
Todd Michael Patton, 20, a 
Notre Dame junior from 
Woodstock, Ill., was found dead 
in his off-campus apartment yes· 
terday morning. 
The death was caused by as­phyxiation by hanging, an apparent suicide, according to St. joseph County Deputy Coroner Dr. james McMeel. Patton was found by his two roommates. 
He lived at 201 1 Coventry Trail, New London Lake Con· dominiums, South Bend. Patton was a history major in the Col· lege ofArts and Letters. 
McMeel said that Patton left a suicide note in which he said he "had been very depressed and had many problems." McMeel added that there was no evidence offoul play. 
Detectives from the St. joseph County SheriffDepartment could not be reached for comment. 
McGann's Funeral Home is in charge oflocal arrangements and additional plans are pending in his home town. 
Bu.y
Ooserver 
Classifieds 

In a continuing effort to bring you the music andfun you want ... L.S. Holmes, M.E.C. Productions, and Special Events Commission presents ... 1The Welcome Back Week Party-=­featuring r i The Suburbs Ticket on sale Monday, January 13th at S.A.B. Record Store Tickets: $4.50 pre-party $5.00 night ofparty  

.r------------------~----------~---.~~-------------­
The Observer Wednesday, December 12, 1984-page 4 
SARG plans side trips for students in Florida during spring vacation 
Spedal to The Observer 
The Alumni Association and the Student-Alumni Relations Group ( SARG) are organizing three side trips for students who will be in Florida overSpring Break. 
Jeanine Gozdecki, Chairman of SARG, announced that Alumni Board Member, Dr. Kathleen Sul­livan ('78), is coordinating the trips with the help of SARG and the Alumni Association. 
For those interested in a short respite from the hectic Lauderdale scene, a one-day overnight snorkel­ing trip in John Pennekamp Coral Reef State Park, near Key Largo is scheduled. 
Last year several students partici­pated on a one-day trip, and, accor­ding to Sullivan, many expressed their desire to stay another day. 
This year, students will be offered a boat trip to the only living coral reef on the continental U.S. They may also spend time at Park Headquarters where sailboat, canoe, and windsurfing rentals are available. 
The trip is tentatively scheduled for Thursday of the week of Spring Break. Deposits of 525 are needed by january 20 in the Alumni Office. The deposit should cover the cost of the trip, incluyding snorkeling equipment, transportation, and fees for overnight camping. 
A trip to the Florida Everglades is also being planned. A one-day trip last year was cancelled because of students who pulled out at the last minute, according to Gozdecki. 
However, this year, Sullivan is tentatively scheduling a three-day camping trip to the Everglades. The deposit for the Everglades trip is also 525 and is planned for Wednesday through Friday evening of break. The cost covers transportation, and food only, and students should bring their camping gear. Deposits are due in the Alumni Association office Jan­uary 20. 
The major trip being organized is what Sullivan calls a "once in a lifetime oportunity" to dive in the coral reefs northwest ofKey West in the Dry Tortugas. This is for students 
To all Subscribers to The New York Times 
MERRYCHRISTMAS 
from George Scott Deven 
IS AN MBA IN YOUR FUTURE? 
The Kogod College of Business Administration offers you an excellent opportunity for graduate business education in the nation's capital. Qualified candidates may begin the program in Fall, Spring or Summer. Programs may be completed on a full or part-time basis with courses offered in both day and evening. 
In addition to the MBA, the College offers the Master of Science degree in Taxation as well as in other specialized professional fields. For further information, call (202) 885-1905 or mail the following form to: 
Kogod College of Business Administration Office of Student Affairs The American University Washington, D.C. 20016 
lr 
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY 
WA..,HINL.Tl"'~N f)l 
The American Univer..il\' i~ an EEO Affirmarivt" Action lnsriidiiOn 
~---------------------------~ 
lam interested in the following graduate business 
fields:  
0  Accounting  0  Procurement Acquisi­ 
0  Finance  tion and Grants  
0  International Business  (MS only)  
0  Marketing  Management  
0 Operations Analysis  0  Real Estate and  
0  Personnel and  Urban Development  
lndustnal Relations  0  Taxation (MS only)  
Name  

Address _________________________ 
City -----------------------­State -------------------Zip___ Telephone ( ____) ----------------­
~---------------------------~ 

130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C lumber) 
277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 
Wedneadoy Sunday 1 1­

1-------------r-----------­
16", 11tem I l6", 11tem I 
S6.95 I S6.95 I 
Coli before f1 Coli belore 9·30
I I 
EXPIRES 12/12/84 I EXPIRES 12/14/84 I
-------------L------...-----.~...1 
who are experienced snorkelers or scuba divers. 
The students would work with marine scientists surveying the area which is now being considered for oil development. The trip would be spent on a 95 foot boar which is cur­rently part of the "Save Our Reef' project. Concerned enviromen­talists are monitoring the activity of oil companies in the area. 
The cost of this two-and a halfday trip will be S195, for a full five days it will be 5371. A deposit is necessary by january 20, of $50 mad~ payable to the Alumni Association. Deposits are needed in january because "camping spots are virtually impossible to come by during the Spring months and reservations need to be arranged early," said Sul­livan. 
For students who are interested, Sullivan, who is a marine biologist, will be on campus in january. 
~

r...,.....,.....,........--=--...,..............~.........,.....,.....,.....,...........,.....,..~.........,.................,...........,...........,.....,.............................,...........,........ .........r.1 
§  ~  
~  CHRISTMAS FAIR 1984  ~  
sl  §~  
Wednesday, December 12  ~  

~ Sout~ D~n':: HallI ~ Come all ... students, faculty, and staff § --Homemade Ice Creamand Cake ~ ofCampus  ~ ~ § ~ §  
~ --Ice Sculpture Demonstration and § ShenanigansI--Decorateyour own cookies and morel  ~ § ~  
8§8 8  Stop in for thefun!  §§§ 

1-..r_.,...........,..~.........,..........................~..................~...............,................................................o"""...........................................,.......~..J 
DAILY SPECIALS 
Antojitos Mexicanos (Appetizers) Gratis 7-10pm 
WE HAVE CARRY OUT AT 
Pnces do notmclude applicable sales tax c 1984 Domtno·s P1zza. Inc 
AT FIVE CORNERS OPEN 12 p.m. to 3 a.m. 

Old Milwaukee 
so~tglass 

$2.50 Ipitcher 
COMMONS 
r----------------------, 
Pay only $5.99 for a$5.99 12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes· .

Special 
Expires in one week. 


L••••••••••••••••••••••J 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ FREE. 
You've been studying for hours. The pages are blurring and your stomach is stirring. So why not take a break and call Domino's Pizza? We'll be there with a hot, custom-made pizza in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our pizzas are made with 100% real dairy cheese and fresh, not frozen, toppings. Now isn't that worth contemplating! 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 1 00% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 12" cheese $4.99 
6. 
16" cheese $7.19 
® 
Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the pnce of 4 Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Onions. Green Peppers and Sausage 12" deluxe $ 8.55 16" deluxe $12.35 
Electives Pepperoni. Mushrooms, Black Olives, Onions, Green Olives, Sausage. Ground Beef, Ham, Green Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Thick Crust 12" pizza$ .89 per item 16" pizza $1 .29 per item 
Coke'/16 oz. bottles, 59¢. 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 
Limited Delivery Area 
The Observer Wednesday, December 12, 1984 -page 5 
shenanigans 
Notre Dome's Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
2nd SEMESTER AUDITIONS 
Thursday, 1/17/85 in 219 & 220 O'Shag 
All interested should sign-up for a time slot at the INFO desk in Lafortune (1st Floor Lobby) or check in the Student Activities Office. 
Audition Information can also be found in those places as well as some music. 
A sign-up list will be posted on Tuesday, l/15 
Wear~ looking for 5 bright, new faces! If you can sing and dance and enjoy travel and performing... Come check..us out! 
CAITU­

ALBRONZI 
SUNTANNING CENTII 
For the Total Holiday Look . . ~ Have a Tan in Minu.~e& .•• Not Hoora! 
!WWT~II..UH 
OUR BED OFFERS:

(ocrou from Mortln'1) 
* * Facial Tanner No Coloring Creams Needed to Obtain Tan
* 
No Burning, Peeling, or Drying

* 
Save with Ova Bulbs


* Your Own Private Room for Tanning If TheM Factors Ale Preeent, You've 
Chosen the Prop..-Sun Ta.-led J ~---SII I lellhiii•••SJS 
Ta.lli.SII.I:li-UI 
UfiiiJI YOU TAN IN IONUTD...S?
n.n. I:JI-tll. Itt. I:JH:ll (clooed Monday) Call272-o312, 272-1471 
Shultz calls for attack on terrorists 
Associated Press 
GATWICK, ENGLAND-U.S. Sec­retary of State George Shultz said yesterday that attacking terrorists before they attack Americans would be an act of self-defense that should have broad public support. 
"We are talking about defending ourselves through defensive measures, through pre-emptive ac­tions ofone kind or another that can be identified clearly," Shultz told reporters during a flight from Wash­ington. 
He said the United States should not hesitate to retaliate for terrorist strikes although "we haven't talked in terms ofretaliation with a sense of revenge. "He said retaliation should be seen as action to prevent future strikes, adding, "The object is to defend ourselves." 
Shultz would not say if the United States was considering a retaliatory strike in response to the Dec. 4 hijacking ofa Kuwaiti airliner to Iran that lasted six days and resulted in two American passengers being killed. 
He said U.S. officials wanted to talk to two surviving Americans before offering any judgment on the sin­cerity oflran's effort in trying to end the hijack crisis. Iran security forces stormed the plane Sunday, freeing the last ofthe hostages. 
But he remarked, "It was a long time the airplane was on that tarmac before definitive action was taken." 
Shultz arrived at Gatwick for a 24­hour visit as a guest of British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe. Shultz will go to Brussels, Bel­gium, on Wednesday for a three-day meeting of NATO foreign ministers. 
During the flight from Washing­ton, Shultz made several comments suggesting the Reagan administra­tion is ready to strike at terrorists when it has conclusive evidence they are ready to strike at American interests. 
The secretary dismissed the idea that the United States might be ris­king more terrorism if it attacked terrorists and accidentally killed some innocent people. He said pre­viously that the lives of innocent civilians and U.S. combat forces might have to be risked if the United States retaliates against terrorist.'!. 
"They (the terrorists) don't seem to need additional excuses to try to hit us," he said. "They seem anxious to do what damage they can." 

Consent waived in abortion case 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS -The Indiana Su­preme Court ruled yesterday that Marion Superior Court Judge Mi­chael Dugan has jurisdiction to waive parental consent so an In­dianapolis teen-ager can get an abor­tion. 
The justices dissolved a temporary writ issued last Friday that mandated Dugan to void his or­der authorizing the abortion for the 15-year-old girl, who already has two children. 
The Supreme Court was asked to mediate a tug of war between two judges over which of them had legal jurisdiction to hear the abortion consent petition. 
Under Indiana law, it is a crime for a doctor to perform an abortion on a single girl under the age of 18 with­out the consent of her parent or guardian. A girl who can't get her parents' permission or doesn't want to ask for it can go to juvenile court to get a judicial waiver of the con­sent requirement. 
Eric Miller, a lawyer appointed as a special judge in the juvenile divi­sion to hear the petition, argued that it was his case and that Dugan couldn't take it away from him. 
The girl's lawyer, William Rosen­baum, filed a notice of dismissal in Miller's court and refiled the peti­tion in Dugan's court. Miller, a lob­byist who represents conservative fundamentalist groups, refused to acknowledge the dismissal and at­tempted to prevent Dugan from act­ing. 
Nevertheless, Dugan held a hearing last week and granted the waiver allowing the girl to get an abortion without her parents' con­sent. That order was put on hold last week pending the outcome of yes­terday's hearing before the Supreme Court. 
Miller's lawyer, Frank Spencer, in­sisted that only the juvenile division had jurisdiction to hear juvenile cases. But the Supreme Court disagreed. 

Take a Study Break at 
Chris' Ice Cream 
Free coffee and 30% off all ice cream from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Friday through Thursday. 
1723 South Bend Avenue (next to Turtle Creek) 
Now you can commute to work, catch a fli&ht or e!Qoy the day shoppiJI& with United Limo's dependable downtown Chicaao service. 
United Umo to Midway Airport and Downtown -··-·-­Same Day Retum CALL YOUR TRAVFJ.-t\GENT OR UNITED UMO 
674-6993 
10844 U.S. 20 (one and ont·half milts east of Binerswttl) Osceola, Indiana 46S61 
View~0 int 
Wednesday, December 12, 1984-page 6 
Listening for ideas late at night on the campus 
I was in a quandry. A week ofwriting papers had left me completely burned out. Not an ounce of my very limited grey matter remained functioning and I had a Viewpoint column due the next day. What could I do? 
"Write an article about finals," my roommate suggested. "I don't want to even think about finals," I returned. 
JohnNeblo 
outside, looking in 
"How about a Christmas story then?" he of­fered cheerfully. I just glared malevolently in response. "It was just a suggestion," he apologized, "there's got to be something you can rag about." 
"I do not rag, I editorialize ... besides I 
'r 
r wouldn't feel right ragging about somethingat r Christmas time." r So off I went, as do most Domers when they r have a problem, to see our community's pillar r ofsagacity, concern, and problem solving ex-
r 
pertise: the R.A. Brian already had a room full of supplicants, so I sat down and watched hopefully as he dealt with everyone else's problems. Finally it was my turn and Brian lis­tened intently. 
"Don't worry," he said, "nobody reads your column anyway." 
"Seriously Brian, I need an idea." 
"Write about cheating in Emil's class; it was a big hit last year." 
I crossed the hall wearily and went to Kevin's suite. There was always someone to talk to in Kevin's suite. Sure enough, the room was full. Hank was there searching in vain for someone to type his paper; Tom was copying a problem set in Cost Accounting; and Dave and John were arguing about the lyrics in Madonna's new single. 
I sat down, notebook in hand, listening to the idle chatter of my friends hoping that someone would saysomething to spark a crea­tive fire in me. Then the idea struck me: an editorial about late night bull sessions at Notre Dame. The kind of thing that Father Hesburgh loves to talk about so much. Young scholars sitting around discussing the things that concern them most. I began taking notes, trying to piece together an editorial from bits and pieces of random conversation: 
"Did you see Sandra Bernhardt on Carson tonight, what a hot body!" 
"Speaking of hot bodies, did you see G--­and A-----sucking face at the party Saturday night?" 
"Yea, I kind of feel responsible for that, I introduced them under the mistletoe." Unfor­tunately from there the conversation turned to the unprintable. Then, from another corner of the room: 
"I c~n't see how anyone would watch Days ofOur Lives ahead ofAll My Kids." 
"Get a clue, Days blew awayAll My Kids in the Daytime Emmy Awards. It took best actor, actress, director, ... " 
"Boomer, do you ever do anything besides watch T.V." "Are you kiddin', he hasn't touched a book this month." 
Suddenly, the conversation turned nostal­gic. Levity disappeared in favor sincerity: 
"Can you believe we're seniors already?" 
"Think ofall the things that have happened to us in the past four years." 
"Yea, has any class in Notre Dame history been dumped-on as much as we have. Four years ofFaust, four years without a real basket­ball team, the alcohol policy, and to top it off, 
we'll be the first senoir class in years to take 
final exams before graduation." 
"C'mon, it hasn't been that bad, besides the 
social life makes it all worthwhile." 
Finally, someone noticed me taking notes in 
the corner. 
"Nebs what are you doing over there." 
I explained my problem. 
"Write a an article about finals or maybe 
something about Christmas." "No. Why don't you rag on the dining hall for pancake night?" 
"How about an Andy Rooney type article. 'Did you ever notice how much bathroom graffiti has in common with Sid Vicious lyrics?' Or, 'Did you ever wonder why the bookstore sells purple ND t-shirts." 
Just then Karl walked into the room. "What's up?" 
"]ohn needs a topic for an Observer article." 
"Do another article on cheating in Emil's class. It was hysterical last year." "Hey don't worry about it john, nobody reads your columns anyway." Thanks for the help guys. 
john Neblo is a senior economics major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
r 
r Administration is neither parental nor moral 
f Aside from its Catholicity, that which makes Notre Dame unique is its self-proclaimed 
~ familial nature. Indeed, from the time students first arrive, they continually hear the adminis­tration speak of the "Notre Dame family." The administration believes that it is their prerogative to act as the students' parents away from home. And, accordingly, they see it as their responsibility to inculcate those in their charge with certain values; hence Notre 
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 
Dame's claim to provide its students with a moral education as well as an academic one. However, in spite of what it says, I think the administration would be hard pressed to show how it effects any kind of coherent moral education, or how its relationship with the student body even remotely resembles a parental one. A paradigmatic example of the administration's shortcomings is its handling of the new alcohol policy. 
Of course, the only standard by which anyone can judge the moral dimensions ofthe "Notre Dame family's" alcohol policy is by his own family's alcohol policy. And, in my family, the alcohol policy was remarkably simple and coherent: you did not drink until you were of legal age. Ofcourse, I cannot say that I always adhered to this policy. But I can say that when I did not, I at least knew where I stood and why, which seems to me to be the point of moral education. What I learned from my par­ents alcohol policy was that one is obliged to obey the law. 
In comparison, what is there to be learned from the "Notre Dame family's" alcohol policy? Is it that one is supposed to obey the law? Apparently not, for Notre Dame's alcohol policy is in violation ofthe Indiana law regard­ing the legal drinking age. Is one supposed to learn that there is something inherently and obviously wrong with drinking and drunken­ness? I do not think so, because if this were true, the administration would (or should) never have allowed alcohol on campus in the first place. What, then, is the moral message of Notre Dame's alcohol policy? 
To answer this question, I think one needs to look at the circumstances surrounding the adoption of the alcohol policy. One of these circumstances was that, with the rise of groups such as MADD and with popular opinion starting to turn against drunkenness, it was morally "stylish" for the administration to become concerned about how much drink­ing everyone was doing. Another circum­stance that had a profound bearing on the adoption of the alcohol policy was that the University was being held liable for the drunken misdeeds ofsome ofthe members of · the "Notre Dame family." 
Thus, if one attends to the circumstances surrounding the alcohol policy, one can see that it is not based on any kind of principles such as respect for the law or the immorality ofdrinking, but rather it seems to be based on the "ideals" of moral stylishness and eco­nomic convenience. Given all of this, the message of the alcohol policy is as follows: Morality is something that should be based on whatever is in vogue and whatever is in one's economic self-interest. For some reason, this is not the kind of moral education that I ex­pected to receive from the administration of this university. 
The administration's claim to be the stu­dents' parents away from home seems to be equallyas spurious when looked at in terms of the alcohol policy. What kind of parents do not let there children know what goes into their decision making, as was done when the a gag rule was placed on the student representa­tives to the alcohol committee? Also, what kind ofparents tell there children that there is no one they can talk to once a decision has been made, as the administration did when the alcohol policy was adopted? It seems to me that my parents were always willing to let me in on their decision-making, and they were always available to talk to once that decision had been made. 
In conclusion, I have, perhaps, been too hard on the administration. But it seems to me that the administration has been fairly hard on the students as well. They have, under the pretense of parental authority, been force­feeding the student body a moral education that is neither coherently moral nor reflective of any kind of recognizable parental concern. Given this, I think it is very hard for most stu­dents to view the administration as anything but sanctimonious, hypocritical, and out of touch. If the administration wants to be the students' parents and wants to give them a moral education, they should get straight on what what it is to be both a parent and moral. And, while it is working on this, perhaps it would be best for the administration to be content with just being an administration. 
Vernon Marchal is a senior in the Program ofLiberal Studies at Notre Dame and a regu­lar Viewpoint columnist. 
Why not explore questions raised by the bishops? 
All of us have been invited to contribute to the second draft of the "Bishops' Pastoral Let­ter on Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy" by mid-February 1985. Why? The reason is to participate in the examination of the economy in response to the bishops' fun­damental questions as stated in their lntro-
Father Don McNeill Kathleen Mass Weigert 
guest column 
duction: "What does the economy do for people? What does it do to people? It is con­r:ern for the effects ofthe U.S. economy on the lives ofmillions ofhuman beings that leads us to issue this Pastoral Letter." We believe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, faculty, staffand alumni can provide excellent contri­butions. 
We are being invited by the bishops to pro­vide constructive criticism of their first draft. We believe that Christmas vacation might provide space for many ofus to read the letter and engage different people in discussions before returning to campus in mid-january. 
Why not explore one or more ofthe follow­ing suggestions? 
Visit or call your bishop or parish repre­sentative. Ask for their response to some of your points of view in relationship to specific passages in the Letter? 
Interview yourparents and relatives. Find out what their viewpoint is on what the bis­hops have said and whether bishops ought to enter into this debate? 
Interview some ofyourpeers. What do your high school classmates think about the "preferential option for the poor" proposed by the bishops? 
Call a meeting witbpersons engaged in so­da/ action with the poor. What is their per­spective on the need fo,r the bishops and the Catholic church to speak out on these issues? 
Next semester there will be a visit by Bis­hop Weakland, the chairperson ofthe drafting committee of the Pastoral Letter, to the campus on Feb. 7. He is very interested in our responses. There will also be a workshop sponsored by the Community for Interna­tional Lay Apostolate on Feb. 8 with Sister Amata Miller, an economist. Debates are being planned. It will be extremely helpful for us to bring back other points of view and prepare our questions and contributions for these meetings. 
Here are a few quotes from the first draft of the document in one section called "justice, Power, International Priorities." You might want to tear this section out and bring it home with you for Christmas. Ifyou want a copy of the Letter, come to the Center for Social Con­cerns or call your parish when home. 
"We believe that the level of inequality of income and wealth in our society and even more that the inequality on the world scale today must be judged morally unacceptable according to these criteria. Our discussion and study during the preparation ofthis Letter led us to the same conclusion reached be the 1971 Senate ofBishop1o: ..;,Jess combatted by social and political action, the influence ofthe new industrial and technological order favors the concentration of wealth, power and decision-making in the small public or private controllinggroup.'" 
"The fulfillment of the basic needs of the poor is of the highest priority ... This evalua­tion of decisions, policies and institutions primarily in light of their impact on the poor constitutes a 'preferential option for the poor' which flows from Biblical faith. 
"Increased economic participation for the marginalized takes priority over the preserva­tion of privileged concentrations of power, wealth and income. 
"justice is not simply a matter ofseeing to it that people's private needs are fulfilled. It is also a matter ofenabling them to be active and productive. 
"The fundamental demand of justice that all persons be able to participate in the common good ofsociety also has implications for how economic benefits are distributed.• 
"Unequal distribution of income, educa­tion, wealth, job opportunities or other eco­nomic goods on the basis of race, sex or any other arbitrary standard can never be jus­tified. 
"Meeting human needs and increasing par­ticipation should be priority targets in the investment of wealth, talent and human en­ergy. 
"There will undoubtedly be disputes about the concrete implications of these priorities in our complex world. We do not seek to foreclose discussion about these implica­tions." 
Father Don McNeill is the director of tbe Center for Social Concerns. Kalbleen .l1ass Weigert is the assistant director for social analysis at the Center for Soda! Concerns. 

----------~-----------­
"ie~P-~O_i~n_t~--------------------------------------W--ed_n_e_sd_a_y_,n__ec_e_m_b_e_r_I_2,_I_9_s_4___P_ag_e_7_ 
God leads people out of bondage into freedom 
South Africa ha.~ had two winners of the Nobd Peach Prize; the first, in 1961, wa.~ AI· bert Lutuli, President of the African National Con~>:ress. Lutuli led Con~>:ress throughout the 1950's a.~ Africans turned to passive resistance in an unsuccessful attempt to check the ti~>:htenin~>: grip of apartheid. These non· violent efforts led 10 the banning of the move· ment and its political leaders in 1960. Since tht·n. the African National Congress has gone umkrwound and t·mbarked on a guerilla struAAic. 
Bishop Desmond Tutu is the second South African to bt· recognized as a model for the world community: another courageous and 
Peter Walshe 
guest column 
prohpht·tic voice calling for justice so that the pt·opll' ofhis lanllmay live in peace. Desmond Tutu will recdvt' the Pt'ace Prize this week in Oslo. lit· rt'prt'st·nts mort' than a century of extraordinary hlack restraint; he also rcprest·nts a tide of rising anger. 
A weat deal has happened in South Africa since 1960 to produce another generation of bla1.:k kaders of Bishop Tutu's calibre. State repression by hoth the police and the army, as wdl a.~ torture in apartheid's prisons, have in· crea.~ed dramatically. Pretoria's model is now the national security states of Latin America (which have enjoyed support from the United Statt·s for far too long). Society is hom·ycomht'd with police informers. At the same timl', black lahor working for the white· owned economy ha.o; been exploited with per· sistt'nt ruthlessness. Over the last twenty five years. a.~ sun·essive United States administra· 
P.O. BoxQ 
May joy and peace be with all of Notre Dame 
Dear l:"dttor: 
liat·h year at this time, many of us speak of 
how quickly the semester went hy. We reflect 
on resolutions fulfilled and failed, we smile at 
tht· pleasant surprises of the semester, and 
wince at the tragedies. We measure progress 
by ~>:rades, high and low; relationships, found 
and lost; hopes, newly found and given up. 
A~ each of you prepare to leave for the se· 
mestl·r, it is a privill'ge for me to wish you 
(;odspet'd and blessings as we celebrate the 
coming of the Savior. 'Jbe patroness of the 
llnivt·rsity, Notre Dame, is the prototype of 
human frailty made perfect by God's interven· 
tion in human history. 
I should like to briefly address two woups: freshmt·n and seniors. For the freshmen the first semester has been one oftremendous ad· justment · academically, socially, and per· sonally. "!hey should not let their disappointments overcome them. "Jbe advan· tages aht·ad for them arc worth pursuing. For the seniors. the denouement of college is in progress. "lbe real world is on the horizon. "lhcir final semester at Notre Dame is a weat opportunity to step back and reflect on what has gone on in their lives here. Along with job placemt·nt, graduate school acn·ptance, and so forth. they should have a sense of them· sdves with respect to values, God, relation· ships and priorities bast·d on the quality oflife. 
As vice presidt·nt for student affairs, I am glad and hopeful about Notre Dame students. Goodwill. friendliness, and class have been hallmark.~ of Notre Dame students li>r genera· tions. "!bat tradition Glrries on with all ofyou. 
At this time ofChristma.~ joy and peace, may Jesus, Son of Notre Dame, be with all Notre Dame studt·nts and thdr families. Let them know of the thoughts and prayers that we in Student Affairs have for them. 
Father David T. Tyson Vice Presitlent for Student Affairs 
G. Wills gives benefit of doubt to despot 
Dem· l:"dttor: 
'Jbe leading const·rvative Sovietologist, Richard Pipes, claims that the Soviet Union is on thl' vt·rge of popular revolution. President Reagan claimed some time ago divine knowl· 
tions set out to "dialogue" with white South 
Africa, the apartheid system has been adapted 
and fine· tuned. 
"lbe African majority ofSouth Africa is now being deprived of its citizenship. Under the new dispensation, Africans are supposed to seck their political future in the densly over· populated and rotting rural backwaters set aside for them· the 13 percent ofSputh Africa which, in apartheid theory, provides tribal "homelands" for twenty four million whites who have expropriated 87 percent of the land and built a modern industrialized economy on the ha.~is of black labor. In the pursuit of this apartheid dream, the white regime has uprooted families, separated husbands, wives and children and forcibly moved three million Africans, "superfluous appendages", to the "homelands". Another three million are to fol· low. 
Those African "labor units" remaining in the "white area" do so to serve white inter· ests. Women, childrt·n, the aged, infirm and the unemployed, those who do not serve white interests, are unceremoniously dumpeed in the mini-states ("homeland") that Pretoria ha.~ created. When the process is completed there will be migrant black labor for the white·owned economy, hut there will not bt· any African citizens of South Africa. Africans are being made aliens in their own land. As Bishop Tutu has stated time and again, the purpose of all this is to maintain white power and privilege. The fruits of this in· justice, he warns, are already ripening: the anger and countervailing force of a new gen· eration of outraged blacks, the beginnings of civil war. 
In the last two decades, church protests against apartheid have increa.o;cd dramatically. 'Jbe Roman Catholic Bishops have con· demned the system as blasphemous · an idolizing of the white nation. Protestant Churches (with the exception of the white Dutch Reformed Churches which back the regime) have been comparably outspoken, with the South African Council of Churches playing a central role. 
It is as General Secretary of the Council of Churches that Bishop Tutu has spoken with such authority. He has that authority because his experience is rooted in the black com· munities of South Africa, particularly in Soweto, the great black urban sprawl adjacent to "white"Johannesburg. He has tried to com· fort the families ofchildren shot by the secur· ity forces in 1976 · over three hundred in a few weeks in Soweto alone. The children had been blessed with a spark ofdivine discontent -they had marched to protest their segregated and inferior "Bantu education". Desmond Tutu has supported the black consciousness movement which arose under the leadership of Steve Biko. Biko was killed in a South African prison in 1977 (political prisoner Number 50 to die in these circumstances). Several years ago, Bishop Tutu had the moral courage to meet with the South African Prime Minister · at the time John Balthazar Vorster. Tutu approached him as "one Grandfather to another", concerned about the future of his grandchildren. As with President Reagan in Washington last week, the Bishop got nowhere. 
As Bishop Tutu receives the Nobel Peace Prize this week, as our television screens and newspapers focus for a moment on this an· guished and ebullient man, it should be a mo· ment for America to take stock. Once again this country is refusing to recognize the legitimate leaders of black South Africa. "Constructive engagement" is limited to the Washington/Pretoria axis. Nelson Mandela, leader of the African National Congress and the very symbol of African protest in South Africa, continues to serve a life sentence in prison for challenging racism. Uke Bishop Tutu, his advice has been spurned in Washing· 
edge a.o; to where the Devil's capital in the world lies. 
Garry Wills knows what is going on in Gen· eralJarulzelski's heart. He, unlike Weinberger, finds the Polish General a tragic figure sin· cerely devoted to the best (possible) good of the unfortunate Polish people. 
"Jbc American pendulum swings and one wonders when it will come to rest in the realm of sensible and acceptable political thinking. Is there really nothing between wishful and dangerous cold war rhetoric and, backing up the triumphant Communist suppression with Western money? 
Having learned that cynicism is the everyday stuffofpolitics, I am not surprised to see that Jarulzelski is making political capital on this recent murder of a peaceful political opponent, F. Popieluszko, even though the brutal use of coercion against dissidents has been extolled continuously by the Govern· ment media since 198I. 
Obviously I am not accusing Garry Wills of being a tool of anyone's propaganda. What I question are the grounds on which he claims to possess the appropriate estimation of the intentions ofJarulzelski, and "liberals" around him. I would like to believe that before writing hb dramatic defense of the General's heroism, Prof. Wills weighed carefully all the evidence that points against his interpretation ofJarulzclski. 
It seems to me that a realistic Western atti· tude can be formed only on the ba.o;is of what Jarulzelski actually does in the context of a novel political situation in Poland after 1980. 
First, to start with the basics, the present proft·sscd drive for a more rational economic system cannot be credited to Jarulzelski and his people. If the present government proclaims the willingness to introduce sys· tematic changes, as different from the previ· ous hopeless "muddling through," it is the result of the pressure of the nation which or· ganized itself in 1980 through Solidarity. 
In Wills' presentation of Polish politics we have only Jarulzelski and menacing "hardliners." To suggest that Primate Glemp is somehow "on the.Jarulzelski side" is to misun· derstand the character of the relationship be· tween those two statesmen and neglect Glemp's repeated disillusionment with the "bargains" he thought he had gotten from jarulzelski. 
But, more to the point, to have a full picture of the Polish situation, one must mention "the other side of the barricade" also. Wills did not mention the thousands of independent uni· onists, Catholic and democratic socialists, economic and social experts, journalists, and other intellectuals · the non-communist elite ofthe nation · people who continue to be rep· rescntativcs of the majority of the nation against the Party, includingJarulzelski and his "liberals." 
lbe Polish opposition knows quite well that it cannot substitute Jarulzelski's govern· ment. However, its strength represents a qualitative change in communist politics. 'Ibe previous Polish communist administration was given billions of dollars and used it to avoid the introduction of economic aid and political reform in Poland. If Western credits are going to be given to Jarulzelski, why not first look at his record after Dec. 1981: the evi· dent lack ofpolitical will in introducing struc· tural changes in the economy, the renewed old-style campaign against small-scale private enterprise, new mistakes in the old agricul· tural policies. 
Why, when judging Jarulzelski's perfor· mance abstract from the systematic precedence given by his regime to the reconstruction of the authoritarian rule over the economic recovery and social and cui· tural compromise.? 
The Polish nation cannot be held ac· countable for the new debts incurred by the regime, policies of which it opeQ.ly opposes. 
Right now in Poland, a large part of the pop· ulation has independent representatives. Is it not a realistic policy to support them and press the present Communist Government, not to abdicate, but to come out with some vigorous economic program and to get it to transform the relations between itself and the population · away from one between the prison warden and the prisoners? 
At least, this seems to be better than follow· ing Wills' proposal to give the benefit of the 
doubt  to  anther  supposedly well-meaning  
despot.  
Pawelj. Kotu•ica  

Notre Dame graduate student 
The Observer 
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
f,.,p QlJ5Pf'lf'l <!!i ~1'111 ll'r1t111ftJ1tll'nl f11!~<;p.flet pub111h8d bV lhll SIUdl!'nll of lhl' Ul'ltVf'tStl~ ol Noltf' Oirt1l' du Lac dnd S.tonl Mot•~' COIIIQI 11 llOI!S not l'lt'(:I'Uallly 
•pltf'CI ti1P. rH'IhC.•fl'> ol !I'll' adm•rull•aloOn (.II aoii>E'f on11ttut•on Thlt l'lltW5 •!I tepo'IM~•r. ,, ,, , ' ·~ ,Jntl .!S ntl)l'rt•~"'V olft poss•ht.. Un!.tqnen etloton.tl!'o tl.'ptesent tl'ln opmtOII 
' ... '"-lllJ'''~ ,,, 1111' Et:ltlur••' B•'l•rtt (lotnm!l'llltot"l ll'llf!'tl ''ld.thr.> ln•:urlt• Colutnn ptt•!lur,l It"' ~·ew~ ''' thtm dl..ttnm• Cu•umn 91ldr:e os llv~<l.tt>ttt to dll mornbt>t!l of 111e 
•.ommun•ty anrt ttot' '''''! tt•P•t>:u.• nn ol vd'~'"l:l optnlnnt. Ol" cltmflo>lio 111rougt't le>lll"tlio ··.encuu•dQl'O ' 
ton · to the detriment of America's moral 
health and to the detriment of its long term 
influence in Southern Africa. Racism remains a 
persistent factor in American society and it 
conditions our foreign policy in Southern 
Africa. 
When Desmond Tutu's image fades from our screens, apartheid will remain the brutal reality for black South Africans. American in· vestment ( and some of Notre Dame's) will continue to bolster the South African regime. In this setting, an inueasing number of black South Africans will rt'alize that, without decisive Western sanctions against apartheid, the only means ofgt·tting white leaders to the negotiating table will he through the barrel of a gun and massive labor unrest. As this senario unfolds, it will ht' nauseating to ht'ar thost·, from tht' White llousc and elsewhere, who describe the liberation movemelll, its freedom fighters, its George Wa.~hingtons and 'JbomasJeffersons, as tt·rrorists. 
Perhaps the recent signs in America ofa po· tential groundswell ofopposition to apartheid will help to change all this. Maybe those who arc being arrested at the South African Em­bassy and Consulates will shake the hypocrisy out of America's Southern African policy. As Bishop Tutu put it to Americans: "We depend on you because our liberation is your libera­tion. As long as we are unfree · to that extent you are going to he unfree in this country. But let me say to you. thcrt' is no doubt we are going to bt' fret', wht'ther you help us or not. For the God whom we worship is the Exodus God, the God who leads people out of bondagt· into freedom." 
Peter Walshe ts a professor ofgor1ernment and and international studies at Notre Dame. He was born tn South Africa and ts the author of The Rise of African Nationalism in South Africaand Church Versus State in South Africa. 
Smoking is more than a bad example to others 
Dear Editor: 
I am a freshman here at Notre Dame from California. I have long hair, like to wear old clothes, and yes, have sometimes been made to feel out of place. This is no big deal, and, in fact, it makes things a little more interesting. However, upon reading Dan McCullough's ar· tide on peer pressure at Notre Dame, I had to agree with his bask point that students shouldn't have to fit a certain image. 'lbe prob· lem with his article, though lies in his use of cigarette smoking as an example. Perhaps many students do look down a little: on smoking, but isn't that because they can see no good rea.~on for doing something so obvi· ously bad for you? Or maybe more impor· tantly, couldn't it be bet·ause a smoker also contributes to the poor health ofthose around him or her? In addition, smoking sets a had example for a lot of little kids who re1lly look up to a lot of Domers. Whatever tht• reason. my point is that at least with smoking, isn't the existing attitude ofdisapproval appropriate? 
I don't think McCullough should blame a student dislike of smoking on the social ap· prehension between the sexes, either. He says, "lbe lack of smokers at Notre Dame is just a symptom ofa disease that Is plaguing the vitality of the University's soda! life." "Disease?" What a choice of words. What about the kind that makes you "hack and wheeze until you think you arc having a heart attack at age 20?" 
McCullough may say that, just as sometimes resent being made to feel out of place because of my hair or clothes. I would also resent such an imposed feeling if I wt'rc a smoker. But then I might deserve it. After all, wearing patched Levis to class isn't exactly self-destructive, a bad example, or causing others to breathe smoke-fouled air. 
Mike Sharkey Flanner Hall 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
fct•IOtm C"••'  B•JI VanOf"!\elll••  I'IUI<nPuA.l•"•O•'  O•~• Tate!•!  
Mo~"•vrno EtNot ~~~~ ... ~ E.dt/01  M•r~ Wo'''"""s.,.,..,...,.,,no"  t.vn1•o11•1 A(l~ll•f•Jo<rlV A.lolnfiQIII  Moi"PII HO'"II Ann•CutiiQI"  
IIJrvr' f;do/01  OtnMc:Cultough  Curt•l.thOI'IM.t".tllll'  J1IION1tll  
S4•1H M<1t~ I f1M0• Spo/IS£111/tll  Anne Mo.,•\•v•'lk• M•lllAf!l~ulh~ll"  '>1~'""'""""""'0"'  ~o~ ..~tnWolltlml  
V••vrpomt tcto/Or  OdvPGtlolo  
Fttlllm.5l:di1DI Photo.EoJ•fl)l  Mo~rvHt•o'll~ PPII'L"t.ht!'•  Founded N0'41mber 3, 1966  


The Observer Wednesday, December 12, 1984-page 8 
INTERESTED~JN WORKING AT THE STUDENT GENERAL STORE NEXT SEMESTER? Applications now availablefor: manager assistant manager part-time employees pick up applications NOW in Student Government Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune * *APPLICATIONS DUE TODAY BY 4pm.  


~------~------~~------------~~ 
1 I I  Sa·~e Sl.OO ·• on purchase of Nachos BellGrande··and  1 I I  THis couPoN (;oou FOR Two Regular Tacos,Two MediUm Soft Drinks and Nachos BellGrande"'  1 I I  
I II  a ~~~~o~~!!N !?o~ UMIT: ONE COUPON PER PERSON PER VISfT NOT GOOD WfTH ANY OTHER OFFER CASH REDEMPTION VALVE IS I/20TH CENT GOOD ONLY AT PARTICIPATING TACO BELL• RF-~TAIIRANTS OFFER EXPIRf.'JANLIAHY 15.1985  I I  PLEASEPR!~~~~o~~~~NoRDERING UMIT: ONE COUPON PER PERSON PER VISIT NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER OFFER CASH REDEMPTION VALVE IS I/20TH CENT GOOD ONLY AT PARTICIPATING TACO BELle RF.STAL'RANTS OFFER EXPIRE.' JANUARY 15.198~  I I  
I  TACO BEbb.  I  TACO lEIIIa.  I  
L  -~-W;-~-~~­_-_  _j__ _  tft_~-~­~­_­ _j  

Famine blamed on donor nations 
Associated Press 
ADDIS ABABA, ETIIIOPIA -Et­hiopia yesterday blamed rich donor nations for the magnitude of starva­tion in the devastating drought and urged support for its controversial program to relocate famine victims. 
Berhanu Bayih, among the Mar­xist regime's five top leaders and head of the ruling party's Relief Co­ordinating Committee, said Ethiopia ranks among the lowest in terms of per capita foreign aid received since its 1974 revolution. 
"It is because necessary funds have not been available for develop­ment efforts and for increasing food production in drought-prone areas of the country that we are now witnessing the current tragedy of death and starvation," Berhanu told a meeting of donor nations and or­ganizations. 
Resettling drought victims, Ber­hanu said, is "the only alternative to ensure the continued survival of 
Salvadorans announce truce over the Christmas season 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -Salvadoran leftist rebels yesterday announced a truce for the Christmas and New Year holidays and said they would limit their military activities to defensive purposes during those periods. 
A communique from the rebel leadership said the decision was taken "as a sign of the disposition to advance in the creation of condi­tions that might favor the solution of the conflict by way of dialogue and negotiation." 
It said the truce would be in effect from midnight Dec. 23 until mid­night Dec. 26 for Christmas and from midnight Dec. 30 until mid­nightJan. 2. 
The announcement was made in a joint communique from the general command of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, the umbrella group for guerrilla factions fighting the U.S.-supported Sal­vadoran government, and the exec­utive committee of the Democratic Revolutionary Front, the guerrillas' political ally. 
those people" in Wollo and Tigre provinces -hardest hit by both drought and deforestation. 
Most major Western donor countries have expressed reserva­tions about the program. Some ques­tion whether people are being relocated against their will and have speculated whether the plan is a backdoor approach to communist­style collectivization. 
But officials maintain that the resettlement scheme is being under­taken for purely humanitarian reasons. 
Berhanu's remarks were made at the start of a meeting at which donors were asked to make up an 800,000-metric ton shortfall in pledges for the 1.2 million metric tons in relieffood supplies said to be required over the next year. 
A government report, distributed at the meeting, also contained a long list ofother Ethiopian needs, ranging from 30 aircraft to draft oxen. 
The donors also were sharply at­tacked by Army Maj. Dawit Wolde 
Giorgis,  head  of  the  Relief  and  
Rehabilitation  Commission.  He  
charged  that  if donors  had  not  

ignored his organization's drought predictions early this year the pres­ent crisis could have been averted. 
The commission estimates that 
7.7 million people are facing drought-related food shortages with 600,000 severely affected. To feed them, 211 emergency distribution centers have been set up in famine areas. 
Almost Free Travel Drive-No Rental Fee 
Reservations & Info for Cars to MA, FL, NY Most Major Cities/States ­
CALL NOW 
Chicago....312-939-3600 Elkhart....219-264-4105 Split Gas with Friends! 
MUST BE AT LEAST 21 YEARS OLD 
AUTO DRIVEAWAYCO. 
COUPON 
uitars and 20°/o off accessories with this ad 

COLLINS MUSIC 

919 S.Michigan St. S.B. 234·7548 

............................................................................................... 
~ Aloha Bowl Trip
,. 
December 23-31
~.l. 
Leave from Dallas Westin Hotel Waikiki Beach
i $925 -quad -hotel & air 
$699 -air only 
' 
CallMary Anthony 283-3611 for more info 


•..........................................u ................................................. 
-~~ r=w...m!1 Q;.--­
'TIS THE SEASON EXAM SPECIAL!!! 
Wed.12/191hru Wed.12/19 Th, M, T, W: 4-10:30pm Sun.: 4-10:30pm Fri., Sat.: 4 -12am 
I  $2 OFF ANY MEDIUM OR LARGE PIZZA NO DELIVERY CHARGE!  II  
' II  272 •4935 DELIVERY ONLY  II II  

L-----------:~~~~~::!~::=--------------1 


a sports supplement
page9 December 12,1914 
Streaking Irish meet No. 10 SMU in Hawaii 
ND looks for second-straight bowl win ~­when it takes on run-oriented Mustangs 
"tt
-

Notre Dame in the Bowl Games 
Policy changes, major wins mark history of Irish in post-season 

By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will make its second consecutive venture into post-season play on Saturday, Decem· ber 29, as the 17th-ranked Irish take on the lOth­ranked Mustangs ofSouthern Methodist University In the third annual Aloha Bowl. A capacity crowd of 'Hl,OOO is expected for the game in Honolulu's Aloha Stadium. 'lbe contest also will be televised live nationally,by TCS/Metrosports and ESPN at8 
p.m. EST (3 p.m. Hawaii time). 
For the Irish and Head Coach Gerry Faust, the Aloha Bowl is the culmination ofan up-and-down season. Mter losing four ofIts first seven games In 1984, Notre Dame rebounded to win its final four contests, with three of those victories coming over top-20 teams. 
The big finish was an especially pleasing sight for Irish fans who had seen their team drop Its final three games In each of the two previous seasons. Notre Dame averted the recurring trend ofa late-season letdown as It snapped a mid.season three-game losing streak by downing then-No. 6 l.SU in Baton Rouge, 30·22. Following a last-second 18-17 win over Navy, the Irish began attracting some bowl scouts' attention by knocklng Penn State out of the No. 20 spot with a 44-7 win in Notrt' Dame Stadium. And, on the final week of the season, the Irish climbed back into the Top Twenty, and nailed down an Aloha bid, with a 19-7 win over USC in the rain-soaked Los Angeles Coliseum. 
"I'm happy for the players, happy to see them finish out on a positive note, especially after we didn't do that the last two years," says Faust. "This team deserves an awful lot ofcredit. When we had lost three stt:aight home games in October, a lot of people thought we were finished. I didn't see many people showing much confidence in the team's ability to come back and turn it around. 
"But the coaching staff felt all along that we had the potential to be a very good football team. Once we got healthy at the end of the year, everyone found out what we were capable ofaccomplish­ing." 
.. .( 
The Mustangs, under third-year head coach 
Bobby Collins, posted a 9-2 record (6·2 in South­
west Conference games) this season, losing only 
consecutive midseason games with SWC rivals 
Houston (29-20) and Texas ( 13·7). Since the loss 
to Texas, SMU has won five straight games to finish 
as co-champion in the conference. (Houston, also 
6-2 in the SWC, was awarded the other halfof the 
conference title and the Cotton Bowl bid by virtue 
ofits victory over SMU.) 
This is the ftfth consecutive season that the 
Ponies have finished in the Top Twenty, and also 
the fifth straight year that they have earned a bowl 
bid. Two years ago, SMU was champion of the SWC 
and the Cotton Bowl, as well as the only undefeated 
team in major college football at 11-0-1, but 
finished second in both the AP and UPI polls to 
Penn State. The Mustangs finished at 10-1 last 
season, and have lost only four games in the past 
four years. 
Notre Dame and SMU have met ten times in the 
history of the schools with the Irish coming out on 
top in eight of those games. The last meeting of the 
two teams was in 1958, when Notre Dame edged 
the Ponies and quarterback Don Meredith in Dallas 
by a 14-6 score. 
SMU's offense vs. Notte Dame's defense: 
All-America running back.s Eric Dickerson and CraigJames started a new tradition for SMU in the 1980's -a tradition ofoutstanding running back.s. Carrying on that tradition for the Mustangs through the past two seasons have been running back.s Reggie Dupard andJeffAtklns, both ofwhom thrive in SMU's option-oriented attack. Dupard has reminded SWC fans of Dickerson with his blazing speed and impressive cutting ability. The 6-0, 205-pound junior has rushed 196 times this season for 1160 yards, averaging 5.9 yards per carry and scoring 16 touchdowns. Dupard is 12th in the nation in rushing at 104.9 yards per game and eighth in scoring at 8. 7 points per game. Atklns, a 5-11, 207-pound sophomore who alternates with 
see MUSTANGS, page 11 
By TIIERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
During the 1960's, the question that was often asked at the end ofeach football season was whether or not Notre Dame would be making a post-season bowl appearance. In the 1970's, the attitude of the administration shifted from ifthe Fighting Irish would go to a bowl game to which bowl It would be. 
Now, coupled with the less-than-enviable record Notre Dame has posted during the four years Gerry Faust has been the head coach, and the Increasing purses offered to the participating schools, Executive Vice-President Father EdmundJoyce and his Faculty Board In Control ofAthletics have taken the position that, ifsomeone wants Notre Dame, and, If the University won't get embarrassed too much by accepting the bid, the team will go. 
La'lt season, despite a 22-21 loss to Air Force and a 6-5 record, the Irish accepted an invitation to play In the Uberty Bowl. The reasoning at the time was that participating in a bowl game would be a springboard for the 1984 season. 
Well, It wasn't. 
On January I, 1925, with the fabled Four Horsemen making their final appearance together, Notre Dame ventured west to play in the Rose Bowl, its first bowl game. 'lbere was a little more justification to be playing in this bowl game that year. Coach Knute Rockne and his Irish were 9·0 and contending for a national championship. 
Coach Pop Warner's Stanford team came out ahead in nearly every statistical category, but Notre Dame capitalized on eight Stanford turnovers to win the game, 27-10. 
Money wa'l the major reason that Notre Dame got back 
into the bowl foray after a 45-year absence to play Texas in 
the 1970 Cotton Bowl. Not that the University had a financial 
crisis, but money was needed for the newly formed ethnic 
studies program. "The crucial consideration was the urgent 
need of the University to finance minority student academic 
programs and scholarships,"Joyce told a news conference 
after Notre Dame accepted a bid the week before the final 
game ofthe season against Air Force. "Notre Dame's share of 
the bowl proceeds will be dedicated to this pressing 
University need." 
Texas, the No. 1 team in the nation, was too much for the Irish with its powerful rushing attack. Even theJoe Theismann-Tom Gatewood passing duo could not overcome the Longhorns. Notre Dame held an early I 0-0 lead, but Texas countered with two touchdowns, then added its final points with 1:08 left for the winning margin. With the victory, Texas was the unanimous choice as national champion. 
Not to be discouraged by their first bowl loss, the Irish had a chance for a rematch against the Longhorns in the 1971 Cotton Bowl. Texas was once again the top-rated team in the nation, riding the crest ofa 30-game winning streak. But Notre Dame's defense caused nine Texas fumbles, three of them setting up Irish scores, and ND won the game 24-11. 
The game turned out to be a defensive battle in the second half, as a unique defensive alignment by Notre Dame stymied the potent Longhorn ground game, while Notre Dame's offense turned conservative. The Irish victory kept the Longhorns from being the national champion two years in a row and moved Notre Dame up to No. 2 in theAssociated Press final poll. 
An 8-2 record did not keep the Irish out of the bowl 
picture two years later, as they headed south to Miami to 
play in the Orange Bowl. The opponent was ninth-rated 
Nebraska, complete with the talents ofHelsman Trophy 
winnerJohnny Rodgers and talented quarterback David 
Humm. Rodgers ran for three touchdowns, caught a 50-yard 
pass for another and threw for a fifth In the Cornhuskers 40-6 
rout of the Irish. Nebraska dominated Notre Dame in just 
about every statistical category, Including total offense, In 
which the Cornhuskers had a 560-207 margin. The defeat 
was the worst for the Irish since Ara Parseghian took over as 
head coach in 1964. 
The Sugar Bowl, played on December 31, 1973, was a 
dream game featuring two undefeated, highly ranked teams 
with deeply rooted football traditions. The game was just a'i 
exciting as many had thought, as Notre Dame emerged a 
24-23 winner over Alabama. 
The lead in the game changed hands six times, with Bob Thomas' 19-yard field goal with 4:26 remaining proving to be the game-winner. A controversial decision by Alabama coach Bear Bryant in which the Crimson Tide refused a roughing· the-ldcker penalty and opted instead to give the Irish the ball on their own one-yard line proved to be a game-saver when Notre Dame quarterback Tom Clements completed a 38-yard pass to get the Irish out ofthe hole. 
The win earned Notre Dame a national championship In one wire-service poll, while the other maintained that Alabama was number one. 
The following year, Alabama and Notre Dame again met on the turf ofthe Orange Bowl. Alabama was undefeated and No. 1 before the Irish ruined the Tide's chances ofa national 
see BOWLS, page 10 
...1.. 1.! u 



lsb Extra 
The Record Breaker 
As tailback Allen Pinkett goes, so go the Irish 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Edttor 
As Allen Pinkett sits in his chair talking, he keeps fiddling with the watch in his hand, a watch that obviously has been through some tough times. It is a Uberty Bowl watch, a gift that was given to all the Irish football players when they played in last year's Liberty Bowl game in frozen Memphis. Finally, Pinkett looks down at the watch and shakes his head. "Everybody's watch is falling apart now," he says. "It's time to go to the bowl game." 
It is indeed time for Pinkett and his teammates to make the long trip out to Honolulu for the third annual Aloha Bowl against SMU, and, as the condition ofthe Liberty Bowl watch indicates, it has not been an easy path that the football team has taken to Hawaii. However, riding a four-game win streak and playing their most consistent football in a number ofyears, the Irish can forget about the 3-4 record, the losses to Purdue and Air Force, and the booing from the home fans. The ruture only holds palm trees, sunshine and Southern Methodist. 
"It's sure been a weird year," says Pinkett, Notre Dame's star tailback. "I've been playing football for I2 years now and this is probably the weirdest year I've been through. Right now, though, the immediate future is our concern. We get to go to a great spot­Hawaii -and we get to play one of the better teams in the country. And, although we intend to go there and enjoy ourselves and have a nice vacation, we still have one thing in mind and that's winning a football game." 
Ifthere is anything that I984 showed, it is that winning football games comes much easier to the Irish w:hen Pinkett is running well. Hold the list ofhis statistics next to the team·~ schedule and you will see that, in Notre Dame's 3-4 start, Pinkett gained 100 yards just once. You will also see that, in the four-game season-closing win~Png streak, he gained 100 yards in all but one ofthe games-and in that one he picked up 98 yards in the mud. It is small wonder that he was voted Most Valuable Player by the Irish players for the second straight year. 
As he usually does, Pinkett quickly plays down his performance. He is the model team player, the guy who constantly says good things about his coaches, the guy who gives all the credit for his success to his teammates. "My performance is the least I can do for my offensive linemen and for that football team. They put in a lot of hours playing football. I'm just part ofa group that's trying to accomplish a common goal -to win a game." 
Still, when Pinkett was struggling early in the season, the team was unable to do what it does best -run the ball straight at the opponent and control the clock for most of the game. As a result, Purdue, Miami and Air Force were able to keep the ball away from the Irish offense and go on to victories. 
At the time, most observers were blaming Pinkett's sub-par performance on the play of the injury-depleted offensive line. Pinkett, as usual, disagrees with that assessment. "Usually when a running back does bad, he gets the blame, but the offensive linemen were getting the blame for my performance. That's not fair because there were a lot offactors that went into my not gaining the yards that I would have liked to. One ofthose factors was that I wasn't running as hard as I should have been. I fault myself for that. 
"I also think I might have been too plltient when I was running. I was looking too much and didn't use my instincts as much as I should have. I'm an instinctive runner and, when I start thinking too much instead of running on gut instincts, that's when I make the bad decisions. My ankle (which he sprained in the spring) also hurt, but I don't want to use that as an excuse." 
Whatever the reasons for his lack ofsuccess, there is no doubt that the Irish, especially on offense, were struggling. Suddenly, though, the offense began to come to life during the 36-32 loss to South Carolina. "It would have been easy for us to quit after the Air Force game," says the 5-9 junior. "It seemed like no one was for us. All the adversity seemed to have a unifying effect for us, though. We decided that we would just go out and play for ea~h other. In the South Carolina game, it was the first time that we played close to our potential. 
"That game was the true turning point. It developed our confidence and confidence is about 90 percent of the preparation for each game. The team attitude really came out, too. We really believed in ourselves and in our coaches, and we became a lot more relaxed. The confidence that we had in ourselves and in each other is what turned this team around." 
The renewed confidence began to show itselfon the field in both Notre Dame's and Pinkett's performances. The Irish upset Louisiana State as the tailback picked up I62 yards in 40 carries. He followed that performance with a 37-carry, I65-yard game against Navy, and a season-high I89 yards against Penn State. Finally, he sloshed for 98 more yards in Notre Dame's I9-7 win over Southern Cal. In the course of the season, he broke many of the Irish scoring and rushing records, both for a season and a career. The team also reversed a trend offolding at the end of the season. 
"America loves a strong finisher," explains Pinkett. "There are a lot ofguys on the team who had experienced winless Novembers, so we were determined not to let that happen again. There was definitely a pride factor involved when you think that we did what we did during what was supposed to be the hardest part of the schedule. Part of maturity is taking your lumps, so we were more mature, and that helped us." 
The strong closing has shut up most of the critics around the country, at least temporarily, and has put the Irish in a position where they can show the country that they finally have emerged as genuine threats for the national title. "I think the Aloha Bowl means a lot to our program, because we could move up to the top I 0 or I 5 if we won this game. That's a heck ofan accomplishment when you think we were 3-4." 
For Pinkett himself, the Aloha Bowl represents the beginning of his chance to fulfill one ofhis dreams -to win the Heisman Trophy, which is awarded to the best collegiate football player each year. He was mentioned for the award at the beginning of the season, but his early-season performance eliminated him from contention. He is not taking any chances next year, though. "The run for the Heisman begins now," declares Pinkett. "That is definitely one of my goals, and I'm very confident in myself that I can compete with all these guys like Bo Jackson, Keith Byars and Bernie Kosar. That's a challenge and I love challenges. My main concern is to win football games, but I'd like to bring the Heisman back where it belongs. And I'm going to do everything in my power to do it." 
Pinkett once again puts a qualifier on his goal, though. "I'd love to win the Heisman, but my main concern is to win the national championship, and I'm lucky that I still have one more year. I honestly believe we can do it. The Heisman is going to be secondary to winning football games and the national champion­ship because we have to bring that title back where it belongs." 
And you can bet that national championship rings are more lasting than any bowl game watch. 
ALOHA BOWL December 12, 1984 · page 1 0 

Allen Pinkett NO tailback 

Reggie Dupard SMU tailback 
continued from page 9 
championship. The 13-1I win was a proper going-away present for Ara Parseghian, who was stepping down after II 
seasons. The Irish took a 13-0 advantage and the held off an 
Alabama comeback attempt to secure the victory. Notre 
Dame moved up to sixth in the final rankings, one spot 
behind Alabama. 
In 1976 there was no mention ofa national championship in Notre Dame's bowl propects. The 8-3 Irish, under second-year coach Dan Devine, made the first step to confuse the administration's bowl policy. 
There was a furor on campus and across the nation about why a Gator Bowl bid was ever accepted. It was argued that­Notre Dame had nothing to gain from playing Penn State. The Irish were ranked 15th and the Nittany Lions held the 20th spot. 
"The decision was made because of the enthusiasm ofthe team plus the opportunity it gives us to meet Penn State, a splendid academic institution," said Joyce. An interesting sidelight was that John Lanahan, then the Gator Bowl President, had played football for Notre Dame from I940 to 
1942. • 
It was brought out at that time that Notre Dame had rejected an invitation to play in the I971 Gator Bowl. Supposedly, after that incident, Parseghian decided that the team would not have the chance to vote whether or not to go. Devine continued this practice, as he did not conduct a vote by the members of the team. 
Notre Dame won the game 20-9, raising its standing in the final polls three notches to No. I2. 
In the I978 Cotton Bowl, Notre Dame got back to its order ofbowl business, meeting top-ranked and undefeated Texas. A 38-10 Irish victory earned the team its second national championship in five years. The Irish forced six Longhorn turnovers, turning five ofthem into scores.Jerome Heavens and Vagas Ferguson gained I02 and IOO yards, respectively, as the Notre Dame defense "held" Heisman 
Trophy winner Earl Campbell to 116 yards. 
Notre Dame went back to a frigid Dallas to meet Houston in the 1979 Cotton Bowl. The game featured a comeback that many called the greatest in Irish football history. QuarterbackJoe Montana, who missed most ofthe third quarter because ofa below-normal body temperature, led the Irish offense which put 23 points on the board in the seven minutes and 23 seconds, erasing a 34-I2 Cougar lead for a 35-34 Notre Dame victory. The win lifted the 9-3 Irish to a seventh-place final ranking. 
The I981 Sugar Bowl, in which the Irish took on the Georgia Bulldogs, again decided the national champion, as had six of the previous bowls in which Notre Dame had participated. Georgia won the game I 7 -I 0 and claimed the national championship..The Irish, meanwhile, dropped to ninth position. A crucial Irish mistake on the kickoff after a Georgia field goal and three missed Harry Oliver field goals proved to be fatal for Notre Dame. 
Faust came onto the scene as head coach the following 
year, and, after three mediocre seasons, the administration 
again felt like bailing out a new coach by accepting an 
invitation from a minor bowl. 
The Liberty Bowl was to be "The Catholic Super Bowl," 
with the only other Division I-A Catholic school, Boston 
College, providing the opposition. Again, maybe more than 
coincidence was the fact that the executive director of the 
Liberty Bowl was Notre Dame alumnus "Bud" Dudley. 
The outcome ofthe game was a fortunate one, because if the Notre Dame defense had not prevented a comeback by the Eagles and their sensational quarterback Doug Flu tie, it would have been more than embarrassing to see the Irish emerge from a bowl game with a 6-6 record. 
In the I9-I8 Notre Dame victory, running backs Chris Smith and Allen Pinkett both rushed for over 100 yards and 
L-Extra 

continued from page 9 
Dupard at tailback, has carried 144 times for 71 7 yards ( 5.0 yards per carry) and six touchdowns. 
At the fullback spot, the Ponies have 5-11, 195-pmlntljunior Gary Hashaway, who averages 4.1 yards per carry. Overall, the Mustangs rank 1 I th in the nation in rushing offense at 2S I yards per game. 
SMU can move the ball through the air as well, thanks to the arm ofquarterback Don King: The 6-0, 183-pound junior has connected on 93 passes in 177 attempts 
( 52.5 percent) for 1,598 yards anti six touchdowns. King ranks 12th in the NCAA in passing efficiency with a 136.5 rating, having thrown just six interceptions. The Mustang quarterback also has mobility, and runs the triple option as well as any quartcrhack in the nation. He is also the team's third-leading rusher with 421 yards and four touchdowns on 1 19 attempts. 
King's favorite receivers are a trio of sophomores, including 6-1, 200-pound flanker Ron Morris who leads the Mus­tangs with 27 catches for 554 yards ( 20.5 yards per reception) anti four touch­downs. He is joined hy 6-4, 230-pountl tight end Albert Reese who has grabbed I 5 passes for 188 yards ( 1 7.1 yards per catch) antl6-2, 165-pound split end Marquis Pleasant has hauled in 14 aerials for 328 yards (23.4 yards per reception) anti one touchdown. Split endJeff Jacobs, a 6-4, 190-pountl freshman, has 13 catches for 189 yards ( 17.2 yards per reception) and two touchdowns. Coming out ofthe backfield, Dupard has grabbed 10 passes for I 14 yards this season. 
llte offensive line has paved the way for SMU's potent running attack all season long. 'llte line features two all-SWC cantli· dates in 6-4, 257-pound senior center Chris jackson antl6-5, 265-pound senior left guard Andrew Campbell. At the other guard spot, the Mustangs have 6-4, 255­pound junior Mike Eidson. llte tackles are 6·5, 265-pountl junior Roy Dunn on the left side and 6-6, 265-pound senior Dale Hellcstrac on the right. 
Notre Dame's defense, plagued by injuries all season long, should have everyone bacK' for the SMU clash. Mike Kovaleski, the leading tackler with 108 stops, will hold down the inside linebacker spot on the weak side, while Mike Larkin will start at the other inside linebacker spot. Larkin will backed up Tony Furjanic at his inside position. At the outside linebacker spots, Rick DiBernardo and second-leading tackler Robert Banks (68 stops) will get the starting nods, with Mike Golic also available for duty. Reserve linebackers like Cedric Figaro, Ron Weis­
• • • Bowls 
senior quarterback Blair Kicl, who had been benched most of tht· sca~on, threw for I51 yards to add to a balanced Irish offensive attat·k. lhe ice-covered field in Memphis prevented either team from sustaining a drive in the second half, before which the Irish had gained a 19-12 lead. 
'Ibis year, after enduring the ups and downs ofa football season, the team is going to load up its equipment and depart from the mainland to play SMU in the Aloha Bowl. Although tht· Mustangs arc ranked IOth in the final regular-season poll, aCI.:cpting such an invitation I 0 years ago would have caused an uproar among most Notre Dame fans, who were told that only a bowl which decided the national champion would warrant an Irish appearance. 
Other policies concerning howl games and the manner in which they arc accepted have also changed over the pa~t 20 years under the Golden Dome. The player vote has been rcinstatt:tl, hut another practice which cost the team a chan1..·c to play in the Fiesta Bowl this year has been instituted. Athletic Director Gene Corrigan has insisted that Notre: Dame not commit to play in a bowl game until the rq~ular sca~on has ended. Whatever the reason, that action coM the University over S600,000 because of the disparity in pursl·s hetwcen the Aloha and fiesta Bowls. 
'llll' big advantage Notre Dame ha~ as an independent is that the mont•y it makes from its bowl appearances is not contributed to a conference pool and then split up by the membt·r schools of that conference. So, instead of having to settle for one-tenth of all howl proceeds as memhers of the Hig. Ten must do, all of the money is in Notre Dame's hands. 
As a rt•sult, money has been the major reason f0r the shift in policy from playing only in the bowls which have some hearing on the national championship, to appearing whenever a howl has an interest in paying Notre Dame to play. 
senhofer, Dave Butler, and john McCabe all have received 
some playing time, so the Irish will have plentyof depth and 
experience at the linebacker spots when they face SMU -an 
important factor as Notre Dame faces a familiar nemesis in 
the option. 
On the defensive front, left tackle Mike Gann, the team 
leader in sacks with I 0 and fumble recoveries with five, and 
the team's third-leading tackler (60 stops), leads the Gold 
Rush. Gann was a second-team pick on the 1984 UPI 
AU-America team and an honorable-mentionAssoctated 
Press selection, as well as Notre Dame's defensive MVP for 
the '84 season. At the right tackle is Wally Kleine, who leads 
the team in tackles for lost yardage with 11 for 25 yards. 
Starter Mike Griffin will be backed up at the nose-tackle spot 
by Eric Dorsey, and the Irish also have Greg Dingens and 
Mike Kiernan in reserve. 
The secondary is also at full strength, led by strong safety 
joeJohnson, who is tied for third on the team in tackles with 
60. Hiawatha Francisco will start at the free-safety spot ahead ofSteve Lawrence. The starting cornerbacks will be Pat Ballage on the strong side and Mike Haywood on t~e weak side. Troy Wilson, who is coming off an injury, is also ready for duty at the cornerback spot. 
Over the last four games, the Irish have given up an 
average ofonly 127.5 yards on the ground. They also finished 
12th in the nation in pass defense, giving up 143.9 yards per 
contest. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. SMU's defense: 
As the '84 season progressed, the Irish offense became 
more diversified, showing a variety of offensive sets utilizing 
split backs, the power-I, and a single-back, double-tight end 
alignment. The Notre Dame tradition ofa dominant running 
game powered by a massive offensive line was partially 
broken in 1984 as the Irish proved just as proficient at 
moving the bail through the air. With quarterback Steve 
Beuerlein at the helm, the Irish averaged more yards per 
game pa'\sing ( 189.5) than rushing ( 146.9) for only the 
second time in 20 seasons. 
Beuerlein has proven to be an effective passer both in the 
pocket and on the rollout, completing 140 of 232 passes ( 60 
percent) for 1,920 yards anti seven touchdowns. His biggest 
problem has been interceptions as he has had 18 passes 
picked off this season. 
When the Irish go to the air, Beuerlein will be looking for 
joe Howard, a starter at the flanker spot, and Tim Brown, 
who starts at split end, along with first-teamAssoctatedPress 
All-America tight end Mark Bavaro, Notre Dame's leading 
receiver this season with 32 catches for 395 yards ( 12.3 
yards per catch) and one touchdown. Bavaro was also named 
Notre Dame's outstanding offensive player for 1984, and was 
given honorable-mention All-America status by UPI. 
Howard has grabbed 13 passes for 212 yards ( 16.3-yard average), while Brown has 28 receptions for 340 yards ( 12.1-yard average) and one touchdown. Milt Jackson, who is second on the team with 28 catches for 363 yards ( 13.0-yard average) and four touchdowns, will also be available as a third receiver. 
Notre Dame's running game is at peak efficiency right now, as tailback Allen Pinkett finished the season in impressive fashion to wind up 16th in the nation in rushing and earn honorable-mention All-America status from both AP and UPI. Notre Dame's 1984 team MVP carried 275 times this season for 1105 yards ( 4.0 yards per carry) and 17 touchdowns. The fullback tandem of Chris Smith ( 61 rushes for 260 yards -4. 3-yard average) and Mark Brooks ( 34 carries for 131 yards -3.9-yard average -and four touchdowns) gives additional power to the Irish running game. 
Notre Dame's offensive line features strong guard Larry Williams, a second-team UPI All-America pick and a third-team pick by both AP and The Football News. He is joined by center Mike Kelley who earned honorable­mention AP status as well as second-team honors from The 
Sporting News. The Irish have veterans at the other three positions as well, with Mike Perrino, Ron Plantz and Tom Doerger working at tackle, and Tim Scannell andJerry Weinle at guard. 
SMU employs a 3-4 defensive alignment, and the Mustang defense hao; been especially tough against the run, giving up only 133.4 yards per game on the ground, 19th best in the nation. Pass defense has been a problem, however, as SMU has surrendered 216.7 yards per game through the air. 
The Ponies' leading tackler is 6-0, 258-pound sophomore nose tackle Jerry Bail with 97 stops. Strong side linebacker T. 
D. Briggs, a 6-2, 208-pound junior, ranks next with 91 tackles and 6-0, -180-pound junior free safety Tim Green is third with 90 stops. 
SMU's outside linebackers -6-2, 215-pound senior Ron Anderson and 6-1, 21 0-pound junior Mark Beverley -are two of the quickest players on the team and give the Mustangs solid defense on the corners. The other linebacker is veteran Kit Case, a 6-1, 21 5-pound junior who ranks fourth on the team with 87 tackles. 
Flanking Ball on the defensive line are left tackle Tom Uncbarger (60 tackles) anti Joe Phillips ( 48 tackles) a surprise who was not even listed on the team's preseason roster. 
Joining Green in the SMU secondary are strong safety Keith Brooks, a 6-1, 200-pound junior, right cornerback Reggie Phillips, a S-1 0, 168-pound senior, and left corner· back Rod Jones, a 5-1 0, 160-pound j\lnior. 
The kicking games and specialty teams: 
'Ilte Mustangs lost both their placekicker and punter to graduation last season, but a pair of newcomers have stepped in to fill the ':'Oids. Placekicker Brandy Brownlee has converted six ofhis seven field goal attempts, with a long of 4 3 yards. Brownlee is also a perfect 19-for-19 on extra-point attempts. Junior Tomas Esteve, a free safety for SMU this 
ALOHA BOWL December 12, 1984-page 11 
• • • Mustangs 
spring, was moved to placekicker anti ha~ hit four of eight field-goal attempts and 16 of 19 PAT's. 
Punter Dodge Carter, the other newcomer, has been impressive since winning the job this spring. Carter has punted 50 times this season for a 43-yard average, including a long kick of 7.0 yards. 
SMU's return teams have not been very productive. llte Mustangs' leader in kickoff returns is fullback Cobby Morrison, a 6-0, ISS-pound freshman, who has returned nine kicks for an average of 23.9 yards per return. Free safety Franky Thomas has returned 1 1 kickoffs for an average of 
16.7 yards per runback. 
The leading punt returner for the Ponies is 5-l I, 1 70­pound sophomore cornerback Andrew Livingston, who has returned 1 I punts for an average of 1 0 yards per runback. Thomas has fielded nine punts for an average of 7.7 yards per 
return. 
For the Irish, John Carney has become a model of consistency, receiving honorable mention on the 1984 AP All-America team. The sophomore placekicker ha.o; made good on 17 of 19 field-goal tries for an .895 percentage -a 
Notre Dame recor,d. Carney was also perfect on PAT's, hitting on 25-of-25, thus becoming only the second player in Irish history to finish with a perfect record. 
Punter Mike Viracola has been dependable ail season long, punting 44 times for a 39.4-yard average. More importantly, Viracola has proven that he can pin the opposition deep in its own territory. 
Francisco and backup tailback Alonzo Jefferson have been Notre Dame's best kickoff return men this season. Francisco has returned six kickoffs for a 29.7-yard average, while Jefferson has returned 11 kickoffs for a 20.8-yard average. Brown has run back seven kickoffs and is averaging 17.3 yards per return. . 
Howard has proven to be Notre Dame's most consistent punt returner, running back 19 punts for a 7.5-yard average with a long return of 24 yards. Wilson has run back 11 punts for a 7.6-yard average. 
The keys to the game: 
In their last outing against USC, the Irish executed well, both offensively and defensively, avoided costly mistakes, and took advantage ofthe Trojans' mistakes. 'Iltose are the same things they will need to do against SMU in order to win. 
The Irish defense cannot afford to let SMU establish its potent running game. The Irish have had prohlems with the option in the past, but ifNotre Dame can control the line of scrimmage early and force the Mustangs to pa.~s. it should be able to keep SMU from moving the ball effectively. On the other hand, ifSMU gets things going on the ground, the way option-running Air Force did earlier this season, then it could be a long day for the Irish defense. 
Offensively, Notre Dame needs to keep its play-calling diversified. The Mustangs are susceptible to the pass, so Notre Dame can afford to try for a quick score on its first possession rather than keep the bail on the ground early. 
Ifyou are1ooking for any omens, try the uniforms. As the designated visiting team for the Aloha Bowl, Notre Dame will wear its white jerseysfor the game. The Irish are 5-0 in the white road jerseys this season, and also wore white in last season's 19-18 Liberty Bowl win over Boston College. 

Gerry Faust 
NO head coach 
.,.. 

A 
~ ~ 
~ 
' ~ 
' 
j •• 
•' ~ 
~ ~ 
1 ~ 
~ 
j 
~ 
j j 
' j j 
j j j 
-
~ j 
j j 
t -• • ~ j 

•j 
~ 
•j
-
~ 
~ 

ALOHA BOWL December 12, 1984-page 12.
Extra 
NOTRE DAME VS. SOUTHERN METHODIST 
THE STATISTICSTHE GAME 
NO OPP SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Southern Methodist Mustangs 
The following post­
------------------­
3701 3500 Pinkett 11 18 0-0 0-0 0 0-0108 
SITE: Aloha Stadium ( 50,000) 
784 763 Carney 11 0 25-25 0-0 0 17-19 76
eason bowl games 
4.7 4.6 Jackson 10 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 
TIME: 
336.5 318.2 Jefferson 8 3 0-0 1-1 0 0-0 20
8 p.m. EST; Saturday, Dec. 29, 1984 
'II feature Notre 
60-490 57-471 Brooks 11 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 33-13 31-21 Ward 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
Dame seniors: 
IV-RADIO: TCS/Metrosports/ESPN live National Telecast 
219 • 203 Bavaro 11 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
Harry Kalas, Jack Snow, George Conner 
104 110 Beuerlein 10 1 0·0 0-0 0 0-0 6 104 80 Brown 11 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 11 13 Chura 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 1-1 4
TCS/Metrosports·coordinated radio broadcast 
169-78 151-57 Howard 10 0 0-0 1-0 0 0-0 2 
Tony Roberts and Pat Sheridan 
.462 .377 Team 11 0 0-0 0-4 1 0-0 2 
332:43 327:17 VonWyl 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 0-0 1 
29:45 NO 11 32 27-27 2-5 1 18-20279 

30:15 ------------------­
Hula Bowl 
OPP 11 27 19-21 4-6 1 7-14212PCT INT VDS TO 

SERIES: Notre Dame 8, Southern Methodist 2 
Mark Bavaro --------------RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG
.603 181920 7 .359 1 134 1 
LAST MEETING: October 4, 1958 
Notre Dame 14, Southern Methodist 6 
Pinkett 11 275 1105 4.0 17 66

Larry Williams 
2 1.000 0 30 1 Smith 11 61 260 4.3 0 15
1 1.000 0 1 0MikeGann Brooks 11 34 131 3.9 3 12 °
RANKINGS: (AP) Notre Dame 17th, Southern Methodist lOth 
.000 0 0 0 Jefferson 8 35 112 3.2 3 10
TICKETS: Game is expected to be sold out 
Flemons 5 16 37 2.3 0 15NO 11 274 157 .573 192085 9 Monahan 10 2 17 8.5 0 10OPP 11 243 134 .551 131583 9 

Brown 11 1 14 14.0 1 14 Miller 2 1 13 13.0 0 13 RECEIVING G NO VDS AVG TO LG DeHueck 2 4 12 3.0 0 6East-West -------------------Slams 10 3 8 2.7 0 5
THE SCHEDULE 
Bavaro 11 32 395 12.3 1 24 Mach toll 1 2 3 1.5 0 2 Jackson 10 28 363 13.0 4 37 Carter 2 2 1 0.5 0 1
Shrine Game 
Brown 11 28 340 12.1 1 29 O'Neill 1 1 1 1.0 0 1 Pinkett 11 19 257 13.5 1 40 Jackson 10 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4
NOTRE DAME SOUTHERN METHODIST 
Howard 10 13 212 16.3 0 29 Grooms 3 14 -19 -1.4 0 7.
Mike Kelley 
SEPT. 8lost to Purdue, 23-21 SEPT. 1 5 def. Louisville, 41-7 
Gray 11 13 159 12.2 0 25 Beuerlein 10 58 -75 -1.3 0 18 
SEPT. 15 def. Mich. St., 24-20 SEPT. 22 def. N. Texas, 24-6 
Smith 11 9 67 7.4 0 18 ------------------­
SEPT. 22 def. Colorado, 55-14 SEPT. 29 def. TCU, 26-17 
9 6 194 32.3 1 74 NOTRE DAME 11 510 1616 3.2 23 66 
8 3 40 13.3 0 27 OPPONENTS 11 520 1917 3.7 18 66 7 2 17 8.5 0 12 DEFENSE TMTL-VDS PBU FR BK 
SEPT. 29 def. Missouri, 16-14 OCT. 13 def. Baylor, 24-20 
OCT. 6 lost to Miami, 31-13 OCT. 20 lost to Houston, 29-20 
2 1 15 15.0 0 15 
OCT. 13 lost to Air Force, 21-7 OCT. 27 lost to Texas, 13-7 
11 1 13 13.0 0 13 Kovaleski 108 2-4 2 0 0
Japan Bowl 
10 1 7 7.0 0 7 Banks 68 4-11 0 0 0 10 1 6 6.0 1 6 
OCT. 20 lost to S. Caro., 36-32 NOV. 3 def. TexasA&M, 28-20 
Gann 60 19-127 2 5 0

OCT. 27 def. L.S.U., 30-22 NOV. 10 def. Rice, 31-17 
Larry Wi II iams Johnson 60 1-1 2 0 0
NOV. 3 def. Navy, 18-17 NOV. 17 def. Texas Tech, 31-0 
11 157 2085 13.3 9 74 Furjanic 50 1-5 1 0 0
NOV. 17 def. Penn State, 44-7 NOV. 24 def. Arkansas, 31-28 
Mike Kelley 11 134 1583 11.8 9 50 Ballage 50 0-0 7 1 0 
NOV. 24 def. USC, 19-7 DEC. 1 def. UNLV, 38-21 
...-•• ·.-,......,..;:a:--..........;..._,_:.,....-...-..... -.-­


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (?) Bowl picks 
Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given 





Larry Burke EdDomansky Mike Sullivan JeffBiumb Theron Roberta 
game. The person must pick the
-Sports Writer SportsWriter Sports'-'!'riter
winner and give the underdog Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor 
61-60-2 58-63-2 55-66-2 54-67-2 53-68-2
points. 
.508 .479 .454 .438 
-
.446 December21 HOUDA Y BOWL -Brigham Young over Michigan by 6. 5 Wolverines Cougars Cougars Cougars Wolverines December27 UBERTY BOWL -Auburn over Arkansas by 3 Tigers Tigers Tigers Razorbacks Tigers December28 
GATOR BOWL -Oklahoma St. over South Carolina by 2. 5 Cowboys Gamecocks Cowboys Gamecocks Gamecocks December31 PEACH BOWL-Virginia over Purdue by 2.5 Wahoos Boilers Wahoos Wahoos Wahoos January! COTTON BOWL -Boston College over Houston by 6 Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles FIESTA !;JOWL-Miami over UCLA by 5.5 Hurricanes Bruins Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes
-
ROSE BOWL -Ohio St. over Southern Cal by 4 Buckeyes Buckeyes Trojans Buckeyes Buckeyes ORANGE BOWL -Oklahoma over Washington by 6 Sooners Huskies Sooners Huskies Huskies SUGAR BOWL-Nebraska over Louisiana St. by 7.5 Cornhuskers Tigers Tigers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers December29 ALOHA BOWL -Notre Dame over Southern Methodist by 2 Irish Irish Irish Mustangs Mustangs 


Christmas. The only rcquirements  "Musical talent."  
arc that the child was good during  Tom Walker  
the year (or most of it) and that she tells Santa what it is that she most dcsirt.'"S. If for some reason the child is unable to make this yearly pilgrimage to the shopping mall, the  "Unlimitcd beers at Senior Bar for  "To travel for three years to avoid the dilemma ofsecuring my future." Becky Noack  "The: official chemical cngincer's handbook (the reviscd cdition), with a calculator." John "the Geek" LaChapelle  
local post office will make sure that  each rejection lctter."  
her letter of requests will make it to the North Pole in time for Christmas. (I belicve this is the  ChuckV~en~y "A one-way ticket to Hawaii."  "A job."  Sara Zappia  "Tht: opportunity to teach Memorization 420 (otherwise  
highest priority mail next to tuition  Michele Blane  "Chocolate substitute with no  known as Biochemistry 420)."  
increase notices.)  calories."  JoeMaugert  
There: is something wonderfully  Tina Ohio  
mystical about visiting or sending a  "A crystal ball to figure out Brot­ 
letter to Santa that can not be dupl­ "My car paid off."  "Doug Flutie."  1'\. her Mike."  
icated. To think that this man, the  Susan Good  Carol Rader  D-Balls  
only person I know who can get  
away with wearing a red suit and  "A vacation in a monastery."  "A double strand ofpearls."  "For Liverpool to win the League  
working once a year, has the ability  Lisa Gillespie  Kathey Sonley  and England the: next World Cup."  
to make dn.-am~ come true ­ atlea'it  Winston Griffin  
for little children. But just suppose  "A Christmas card."  "My needs are few ­ a red Porsche  
that tht· "big guy" docs exist and  Chris Richard  Turbo 944."  "A positive: GPA."  
that he lives with a jovial old wo­ Kevin Williams  John MenneII  
man, eight reindeer, and a mess of  "A new major."  
elves in a tiny cottage at the North  VickiJunkins  "Tuition reimbursement."  "To have my family together for  
Pole. To top it off, he subscribes to  AndySaal  Christmas."  
The Observer. With this in mind,  "Victory over SMU."  Louisa Demello  
here, Santa, is what some students  Robert Banks  "Etch-a-sketch."  
would like:  Brian Fox  "A lt:tter from the housing office  "A purple crushed velvet  
"A day with Fr. Ted Hesburgh."  confirming my on-campus housing  sweater."  
Lt..a Marie Visingardi  "A job."  for next semester (in my stock­ John Cox  
Matt Haag  ing)."  
"To coach the football team for a  JeffGodlove  
"War and strife throughout the world."  whole game just out of curiosity to see how good we arc."  "A beer on the beach in the sand with a tan."  "A blizzard."  "To grow, at least to five feet two inches."  
Sir Obnoxious  Bill McDermott  Kelly Fitzgerald  Joe Michuda  Kim Cosgrove  
"A social life."  Tess Guarino  "David Sylvian."  Diane Yoder  "Unlimited plane fdrc." Greg Spretnjak  "To go to the Aloha Bowl." Stephen Boie  "A 30-hour day."  Dave Grote  



-

Accent 
Wednesday, December 12, 1984 -page 13 
Dear Santa, All I want for Christmas is • • • 
"Sun -to have it hot for an ex­"My own golfcourse."
by Lisa Visingardi 
E
tended period oftime." JeffChiesa features staffwriter Liz Durkin "A trip to Italy." "A new car-Trans-Am." Miriam Hill very year at this time the shop­Vince Romano ping malls provide the location "Peace on earth." for the perennial return of that "A girlfriend." Greg Doyle rather robust old man in a red suit­Bob Dempsey you got it: "Santa Claus." Sitting on "A trip to Europe." his throne he possesscs the ability Ken Pataky
"A Lancia." 
to grant every child ht:r wish for 
Pietro Del Bono 
Eurogliders soar with progressive-pop sound 

reminds me of Eurythmics. (I think Grace Knight does not sing all of This Island will probably receive the similarity in name is a coin­the songs here. Songwriter Bernie little airplay here in the U.S. except
Don Seymour 
cidence.) Both groups play harrow­Lynch, who penned all the collcc· on the few progressive stations, like ing synth pop with a female tion's songs, handles lead on four of WVFI, that haunt the airways, whkh 
features staff writer 
handling lead vocals; yet, diffcr­the twelve songs, but only one to is a shame because: this is a fresh, ences do exist. First ofall, Grace great effect. "Nothing to Say" is a intelligcnt collection. This is an 
Records 
Knight has a fuller, richer voice haunting song about a woman who impressive: debut, and the than Annie Lennox that is a pure: has nothing lt:ft of herself. The band Euroglidcrs arc definitely a band to pleasure to listen to. Secondly, manages much better when Ms. watch. 
D
on't be fooled by the name Hear,en . .. must be there while Eurythmics rely almost to­Knight is in control. Eurogliders. "Iltc band has little: It's j~ I got to be tbt>re tally on the bizarre, antiseptic syn­to do with Europe cxccpt for I've Jil'l'er seen even thesizer sound, the Euro-gliders recording their latest album in I don't u•fmttn lit•<' i11 thisplace play pop grounded in rythym and Britain. 11te band hails from Pcrth, Lead singer Grace Knight's smooth, blues, as evidenced by "Keep It Australia -that's right, the: same land controlled vocals evoke a sadness at Quiet" and "No Action." down under that brought us Air the last line: that chills the listener. Other notable songs include the Supply and Men at Work. But this "Another Day In the Big World," melancholy, surreal "Judy's World," band plays a brand of high-tech the song that seems to he going a song about introversion and lack progrt·sslve pop that makes up in over best on progressive radio of touch with reality due to pain. freshness that it lacks in sugar­stations, is the most joyful on the "Waiting for You" grapples with c_·oating. This Island, the band's album with its steel drums and rejection and alienation. Knight second album but the: first released horns. Still, despite its energetic seems to a~sault the lyrics with ht·re in the U.S., imprcssivcly melody, the lyrics deal with getting scaring emotion. She sing~ dcmonstratcs tht• hand's commit­pushcd around. The chorus of ment to quality musicianship and "Another day in the big world" ltl'£lS tbt>re,l was waiting for you intelligent songwriting. seems rcsigned to a quiet accep­I was there,/ was U 1aitin~for you 
"Beaven" and "Another Day in tance: of mistreatment in life. This Butyou were some, you //'ere some­the Big World" arc tht· type of melancholy, deprcssed world view where else singles that frequent the tops of crceps its way through all the ma­And1 was left here, laughing at British and Australian charts hut terial on the: album. "Ilte songs myself whkh rarely ren·iV<· any attention contain fceling but never really here in the li.S. except on M"IV. become joyous, like the pop of and turns average lyrics into "Heaven," tht· song that made them Bananarama or Wham! Title such as moving, cynical self-mockery. It's famous in Australia, is a bluesy, "Cold Comfort" and "Maybe Only I sad. "Maybe Only I Dream" is in the 
subdued numbt·r with a controlled Dream" give this away immediately. lighter pop style of"Heaven" and .. hutt·nt•rgctk chorus similar in style "Keep It Quiet" makes evident an "Another Day in the Big World;" to Squeeze. It's a cat<:hy number observation that entercd the back however, the guitar asserts itself, that exprcsses a wistful dissatisfac­of my mind as soon as the needle hit especially during the lead where it tion with pn·scnt conditions, with the vinyl. "lbt: dark, somber song sounds like the: Human League mets tht• Matus quo: with its smooth, controlled vocals U2. 

-Accent Wednesday, December 12, 1984 -page 14 
Open door for some -eye opener for others 
by Teresa Keefe 
features staff writer 
Lace up for a South Bend winter 
by Heather Miller 
features staff writer 
Artist contbines pottery and drawing 
Peter Pokorny 
features staff writer 
Art 


ings. We had just served coffee to them 15 minutes ago, and already we were worlds apart. 
Berry said of that night, "I think the hardest part about going, was seeing those people, meeting them and not seeing them again. I just wonder what happened to them." 
Gomez added by saying, "It was a verification ofwhat I have always known but never seen." And with that we sped back to campus to begin our day. 
iety from anticipated exams. And, the annual North and South Quad snowball fight is a prime example of this pressure release. 
For some, the winter weather builds tension because of the confinement that the cold climate causes. Confinement may help those who are forced to stay in and study or it may hinder those who want to play in the snow most of the day. Restlessness and depres­sion set in and most are happy when spring arrives. After enduring three months ofharsh weather, the arrival ofwarmth and sunshine is appreciated all the more. 
For those of you who have not experienced South Bend weather, the worse is yet to come. So, break out the hot chocolate, long johns, and boots! It won't be that bad though because there are only 93 days until Spring Break! 

A
s the first chill ofwinter pierced the wind that night, The South Bend Shelter for the homeless opened its door. It was 10 p.m. and people began to slowly trickle into the basement of the Maranatha Temple. 
Already a kind ofroutine has set in on the place, although the shelter opened only a month ago. Rev. Bert Harrison and his wife were the team captains that night, assisted by four student volunteers, ofwhich I was one. We had a great deal to do before the shelter closed at 7:30 
a.m. the following morning. 
We first handed out cups ofcof­fee to all who wanted it. The people reclined at the table and chairs set up in the church basement. There was a feeling of reliefin the atmo­sphere. The place was warm and someone turned on the stereo clad with a sign which read "Christian music only." 
After everyone had their coffee, we went out and talked to the 21 men and women who were staying the night. Freshman Ed Gomez said later, "The first time, I was ab­solutely scared. I just smiled a lot and talked to any amiable person. I think I was afraid ofembarrassing myself." 
We all talked to them. There was jim, a man who said he had been all over South Bend looking for a job and a place for his friends ti sleep. He looked very tired. There was Doug, who asked us if we watched "The Guiding Ught" or ifwe knew Colleen at Saint Mary's. Looking at us through one lens ofa broken pair ofglasses, he told us to tell Colleen he loved her. 
There was Terry, a young girl, 
whose face would light up quickly 
when she smiled, but would fade 
just as fast. Terry had a friend who 
said his name was Cadillac -Red. "I 
guess I felt like I wanted to meet the 
people and get to know them," Suzy 
Berry, one of the student volun­
teers, said afterwards. 
At 11 o'clock it was time to turn 
off the lights for bed. The men slept 
T
ake a break from studying for finals and visit Hammes Gallery on the Saint Mary's campus. This would be an opportunity to reflect on the more creative side oflife that many sudents miss in their four years of undergraduate studies. Through Dec. 13 an exhibit by Thomas Meuninck entitled "Spheres and Platters," as well as a a student art exhibit, will be on dis­play. 
Thomas Meuninck is a very well known and respected artist and potter in this area. His work is unique. He combines drawing and ceramics to give a special effect ofa three dimensoinal piece ofart. He takes ceramics to a higher level of art. So often ceramics works are.. evaluated only in terms of what purpose they serve. Meuninck has given ceramics a new meaning and expression. His ceramics are some­thing we can identify with. His in a separate room, partitioned by a sliding door. Each person collected a blanket and foam rubber mat encased in plastic to use for his night's sleep. 
Some staked out their place for the night and went right to sleep. Others took longer, cleaning up before turning in. Most wore their clothes to bed. Alate arrival, Ron, was a little drunk and had to be helped with his bedding. Some of the people knew him and told him to shut up and go to sleep. 
Finally the lights went out. We sai in the church kitchen, feeling like parents after their children had · gone to bed. Most of the people fell asleep right away. The place was filled with gentle snoring, like a nursery. A lone voice talked in his sleep, breaking the silence, holding imaginary conversations with a girlfriend. 
We stayed up the rest ofthe night, watching over the place, and sleeping in three hour shifts. At 6:30 the next morning we were up to make more coffee and wake people up. All of the blankets had to be sprayed and the floors cleaned. 
The men and women helped, each person clean up where he slept, but they were in no hurry. An impending feeling ofdepresssion filled the bright morning. We were tired and so was every one else. 
When asked why he volunteered, Gomez stated, "I wanted to know. I knew I grew up sheltered -I've never been exposed to depriva­tion." Similarly Berry said, "I used to work at a soup kitchen and I wanted to see what this shelter was like." 
Another volunteer, Vivian 
Ostrowski, said she volunteered 
because, "I get tired of the myopic, 
claustrophobic vision of the college 
campuses." 
Each volunteer had his personal 
reasons for assisting at the shelter, 
and each came back with his own 
impression, left by the different 
personalities of the people who 
stayed at the shelter. 
Berry said, "A lot ofpeople there 
work expresses his individuality. Further more, he does not glaze his work but instead leaves the pot raw and pure. 
Although his work is viewed as unique today it was common practice in the past. In fact, Meuninck has been influenced by the 16th-century artists, prehistoric artists, and art found in prehistoric caves. 
In his drawings he relates his imagery to animals. Meuninck lives in the country an enjoys the wildlife. Through his art, Meuninck wants to stress the life that exists "under the pavement" that many of us miss. Many of his drawings con­sist offish, insects, and rabbits. 
Meuninck's ceramic pieces are black and white. It is intersting to note that although Meuninck is colorblind, this does not affect his art, which is rich in detail and values. 
were at a bad point oflife." Gomez noted, "the people there are just like you and me. It's just that they don't have a roofover their heads." 
Both students said they would gladly volunteer again and Gomez said he would love to make it a weekly thing. This would be diffi­cult because the shelter is now enjoying overwhelming support from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, and there are an abun­dance ofvolunteers. 
Are you depressed and dreary? Are you sick ofthe lack ofsunshine? Does the winter weather get you down? For those ofyou who have never experienced a South Bend winter, the best is yet to come! 
Complaining about South Bend weather is one of the most common sources ofsmall talk around. Stu­dents moving from the South have quite a bit to say about the winter weather. Kevin Lanier, a sophomore transfer student from Texas A&M has always lived in the South, but he doesn't mind the cold climate. He says, "It's a new and exciting change ofpace." Saint Mary's soph­omore Gina Hazell, a native ofFt. Lauderdale, Florida, agrees that winter is a "nice change ofseason." 
We cleaned the basement that morning and waited until the final person left. The people were slow to leave, and as the last ones finally collected their belongings and walked out into the street, the basement was locked. 
The four ofus climbed into the frost-covered car to go back to our sheltered life of books, grades, and school. As we drove down Highway 31, we saw three of the people walking along with their belong-
Natives from the South find their wardrobes inadequate to face the brisk and frigid South Bend wea­ther. For some, entire new wardrobes have to be purchased. Most go to ski shops to buy their wool coats, pants, sweaters, mit­tens, hats, and scarfs. 
The biggest problem with winter is that we have no control over its cycle. The sun shines rarely, ap­proximately 66 days of the entire winter season. According to both Lanier and Hazell, "I would take a beach any day!" But experiencing the snow and bitter cold for the first time can be invigorating, although, after a while it can become miserable. 
Snow allows one to release anx­
The Observer Wednesday, December 12, 1984-page IS 
'/be 0/J.Wrt'<'r Notrt· l>amt· oltin·. locatt·d on tht· third lloor ol Ltl'ortune Student Ct·nt<·r. acn·pts classified advertisinA from <J a.m until 1 pm.. Monday through 1-rida) The Obserr•er Saint Mar)·, oftke. locatt·d on the third lloor of llaAAar Collt:Al' Center, acn·pts classilkds from 1.!:.~0 p.m. until -~ p m, Mon· day thouAh friday. lkadline liJr nt·xt·day classitinb is .~ p 111. All dassilkds must ht· prt·paid. <:itht:r in person or hy mail.< :harg<· is I 0 n·nts pn fin· t·harat·
Classifieds 
ters n dav. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117 
TYPING Jacl<1eBoggs 684-8793 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $18,558 • $50,553/y-. Now Hlrtng. Your A,... Call805-887~. Ext. A-11834. 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WIU DO TYPING. CALL: 287·5162. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER, 233-70011. 
MARCH FOR LIFE! ND/SMC R1ght lo Life wants you to help the unborn by par­tiCipatmg In the MARCH FOR LIFE in Waahmgton D.C. on Jan. 22. Info BOOn In basement of LaFortune Thank you! 
NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 277· 
8045 
PICK UP AND DELIVERY 
LOST/FOUND 
STOLEN: MY BICYCLE From the back of Cavanaugh, Wed. 28th or Thura 29th; 18 an old-type cru1oer, red body. white nms. black seat. white hand grips; no lendl!l's; C'mon, dude, g1ve me a break, I Uve O.C and It's my only transportation. Any 1nfo. CALL JOE No questions asked 277-3877 
HORSE DIED-NEED MY MlnENS BACK If anybody picked up my blue teat­hill' mmena at the last horne football gam&-Penn. State Please return them to Kevm-3828 NOW! 
Loet . Beaketball tickets at IU game. In 1ec11on 5, may have been g1ven to person In row 6 Please call Jack ] 239-7709 or 277·6479. Thanx. 
LOST ·Blue Wool Blazl!l' In South Dining Hall Tues even1ng. If found please call 38t5/323 LllWia--Sentlmental Value in· valved 
LOST: Leathl!l' WILSON "JET" Basket­ballln the ACC on Friday, November 30, t984, In the altl!l'noon, In or around Gym 
2. Def1nate ldentllica-tion can ba made. If found, PLEASE CALL 283-4335. 0 
LOST-Blue NO backpack/bookbag at aouth dining hall containing two EE textbooks, one light blue NO notebook and a yellow loldl!l' and a pair of glaases. Name,addreaa and phone numbat' 1n books and name on other items. PLEASE return book&, notebook, loldl!l' and glaaaes'! NEED BOOKS & NOTES FOR FINALS!!! NOT lntl!l'ested In the return of the bookbag. Call Jodi at xx2904. PLEASE HELP ME FIND THEM' I!!! 
LOST-BROWN GANGSTER HAT WIBLACK BAND IN ALUMNI HALL SAT. NIGHT. OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT Bill AT 1009 OR 1029. REWARD OF· FERED 
HELP!'! I LOST MY KHAKI BOOKBAG! It was last seen 1n the lobby of South Dinmg Hall at Fnday lunch. You wouldn't want a freshman to fall hill' french lmal because she loet hill' books and notes-would you? If you know where my Calvin bookbag or 111 contenta are please call Laurie at 21381 Please before I fall big time . 
I have loet and this Is my story. I was careleealy aaundenng about our wondl!l'· ful campus when my friend. Anne Mane F1nch, and I were brutally bese1ged by the snowball masacre. I looked to Our Moth Ill' and my bifocals wl!l'e aavagely struck-off my lace Now I lind myself ask1ng these questions where lor art my glasses. and whlll'elor art thou Anne Mane Finch,wntl!l' among writers. Call (3090) 
Loet-The leehng lor a REAL college party. If found, please call 2552 and I'll help you throw one 
FOR RENT 
WANTED: Female roommate for two bedroom Turtle Creel< apt. Call Beth at 277-7065 
WANTED 
WANTED: used mountain bike. Call Matt­
·3363 
DESPERA TEL Y NEEDEDIII Ride for two SMC chicl<a 1o O'Hare by noon Wed nes­deyl Cd Chrlati or K.C. at2fl.4-5507 BE­COMING DESPONDENT! Will do anything for a ride!!! 
WANTED: Need rldera to VIrginia (Ch.ootleaville-Aoanol<e arM) Call Torn at2551. 
Ri<M ~ to Pgh Dec 13or14--WIII share uaual--call234-8743. 
RIDE NEEDED: Need nde to Upstate New York ( Syracuse or Albany area ) can leave Wednesday Decembl!l' 19 at noon. Call Brendan at 2275. 
Need ride to New Orleans lor Christmas Break. Can leave anytime aftl!l' Decem­bat' 20. Call Psul COLLECT at (312)388­6458. 
Riders needed to Minneapolis on Mon. Dec. 17. Call Joan at 1580. 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BD. AN­NOUNCES THAT BUSES TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S OHARE AIRPORT WILL RUN BEFORE AND AFTER BREAK. BUSES LEAVE N.D. ON WED,DEC.t9TH AT !P.M. AND BRING YOU BACK TO SCHOOL ON MON­DAY,JAN.14TH, AT 6 PM FROM CHICAGO. COST IS A CHEAP $10 EACH WAY AND SIGNUPS ARE THIS WEEK AT STUDENT ACT. BD. OFFICES. 
NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO? TAKE THE STUDENT ACT. BD. BUSES TO AND FROM CHICAGO ON WED.DEC 19TH LEAVING N.D. AT 1 P.M. AND BRINGING YOU BACK TO N.D. FROM OHARE ON MON.JAN.14TH AT 6 P.M. COST ISA CHEAP $10 EACH WAY AND SIGNUPS ARE IN THE STUDENT ACT. BOARD OFFICES THIS WEEK. 
Need nde to PlnSBURGH 12/18. Call Karen 2676. ENDAD 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE BIG APPLE, IF YOU CAN TAKE ME THERE, CALL ME NOW! ASK FOR JOSUE 4008 
Ridl!l's needed to O'Har&-Leaving Mon. 12/17 callt539 
Need Riders to Rochester or Syracuse for Xmas Break Call Jennifer 233·9415 
RIDER needed 1-80 West to Cedar Rapids, Ia. or anywhere along the way Leaving lues or Wed. Call Bob, 277· 6844 
I am scheduled to pilot the Space Shuttle Challengl!l' on Dec 18 but Mission Control said I must provide my own transportation down. Since it will take to long to walk and the only airline space available is on the plane's Wing, I Need A Ride to Central Fla. (Tampa) on Dec 17. If you can Help, call Rey at 4688 or 2320432 and support your Space Program. 
HEY, IS ANYONE OUT THERE GOING TO COLUMBUS,OHIO ON SAT· URDAY OR SUNDAY? IF YOU ARE AND YOU NEED RIDERS, I CAN LEAVE AT 4 ON SATURDAY. CALL DAN x1426!!!!! 
Ride Needed: to MINN., Twin Cities area. Can leave early 19th. 284-4309, 283­2378 
Need ride to Md./D.C. Sat. or later. Andy 1409. 
wanted: 2 female roomates lor the stu­dent trip to Hawaii call Cindy at 2929/233­6640 before 9:30 if interested 
FOR SAlE 
FOR SALE: '72 Skylark Body: Poor Engine: Good $500 01 beat otter Jell 288--2042 
ALVAREZ 12 str. guitar. $220/best oHIII'. 291-9739 aIIIII' 6pm. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD 
Santa can't delivl!l' my presents to Notre Dame so I NEED A AIDE TO NEW JER· SEY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. 11 you can give me a rt<M call Sarah at1333. 
I've got a date with Santa for Christmas and I don't want to stand him up, so help me and the jolly old eH get together In St. louis. If you can give me a ride there for Christmas break call Maureen att333. 
MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS: For aale in room 204 Walsh or319 Farley. $6each or 2for$10. 
It STO rhymes with plastered(&): It's ob­vious why N.D. women have to suck XMAS bulbs, but, Lewis asks, why does Wayne?-The witches of 1 -North 
MTV World Premil!l'e Video Reteaae Featuring K2 • UVE GIG FROM DALLAS starring Notre Dame student Chrls Prebys 
Coming to you BOOn.. Look to your hall meaeage board lor lur­thl!l'details 
Glamouroua you at Xmas. Your special guy deaerves the beet -special glamour photographs of you. Photography by Joe Ringer. 287-0613. 
NINER FEVER. .. NINER FEVER .. NINER FEVER... NINER FEVER The Super Bowl is coming to Stanford and the NINERS will ba thl!l'e .... What happened to JOe Theis­mann and the 'Skins?... 49ERS 49ERS 49EAS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 
WANTED: RIDE TO O'HARE ON DEC. 
18. I NEED TO BE AT THE AIRPORT BY 2:30PM. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 1118. 
Ridi!I'S needed to Minneapolis on Mon. Dec. 17. Call Joan at 1580. 
SPRINGSTEEN FANS:Born In the USA LIVE tape(90min).Good sound, 16 songs, only$8. Call 2036 
JUNIORS AnyOAe interested in working on a slide show for JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND, please call Kathleen 1335. 
When the rockets go up, who cares where they come down, that's not my department, said Wilkins VonBraun. 
K.AfieNweiMERd~~~~~~~.;;bi~~ Yih~t 
a wild woman. We were "laughing from head to toe" Have a great 20th blrlhday. Fatty try to stay on the ground though. Your such the party animal. Love, Peggy 
NEEDED: REDE TO CINCINNATI. CAN LEAVE TUES. DEC 18. PLEASE CALL ANN AT 264-5183 
BILL -2 my ffbll & ltal hero' Happy 22 Bday! Georg&-I'll miss you next semester! Have fun in London You guys are the best brothers ever' Luv, Carmen!! 
Well 3 semesters have past and you've nevl!l' gotten a pl!l'sonal, well you still haven't! l.M.P. 
Merry Christmas Peeker head! Hope you get a who-who! 
John, I know "all roads lead to Rome", but eventually friends fly back to the states! I'll be back in May, or next year, to love you as much , If not more, than I do now! Merry X-mas, Happy New Year, and I love you. Suz 
John, P.S. Save that. It's my last personal to you! Luv, Suz 
To Sister Beav and all my gullible friends: No, I never had my appendix out. Merry Christmas and enjoy your roast beast! 
TO DONNA SAWYERS: THIS AD IS FOR YOU: HAVE A GOOD REST OF THE DAY. LOVE, YOUR KRIS KRINGLE 
... AND HE WORE POLO!! 
MERRY CHRISTMAS TO THE GIRLS OF REGINA 1ST NORTH. DID YOU ALL HAVE FUN AT SOPH. FORMAL? JAYNE: Did you cut your tongue on his retain81'? MARGIE: What was It that you were really hungry for? LIZ: HOW 'Bout them long necks? LELIA: Did you get enough sleep? PATIYSUE: Why didn't you showup? 
MERRY CHRISTMAS JAYNE AKALAITIS... I'M WATCHING YOU. 
TO WEASEL (ALAIS LEIGH ANN DON­NELLY) Have an excellent Christmas ...maybel'll see you around. LOVE, BUZZ 
To the guy from OreGONE who bared his chest at the Soph. Formal (E.P.-Dillon 
124) Sorry about the shirt, but the cake's still on my dress. Good luck on finals and have a great holiday season. -The future Hawaiin Party Hostess (How 'bout those MBA'S?!!) 
It's only alter 4, but don't worry about it I had nothing bettl!l' to do with my time. 
Mary and Betsy: The child is gone but the cars and playdough remain. Thanks for coming over and thanks lor the fattening word. 
To the lour fun filled sen1or women: Have a supl!l' christmas and Happy New Year: if you make it through your second to last set of finals. Thanks for everything you have done for me, The Graduate 
JoeTness. Scamperin'Scans, Preebs, Goats, Kev & all NO Apts dwellers MERRY CHRISTMAS!-JugularHead 
Merry Christmas, y'all, and thanks for making this semester slmply .... l!l' ...great. Least-needed present this Christmas: a new nickname. --mw 
Hey Fl!l'ns: Take It e8lly on your 19th b­day. Think of all of us wishing you the best & wishing we were thlll'e to share 1n the "FIESTA." Have a ZA, some tea and a beer (you don't have to write an Eng. papl!l'). But most of all-----BE HAPPV I ---· "I LIKE IT WHEN YOU "(. 
THAT I" 
A DECISION IS MADE Here ye, here ye, let all men and women know by these presenta, that the High (4 Stones) Court has reached a decision as to the pon· dl!l'ous and weighty matter of who Is the cutest of them all. Or atleaat the cuteat of the two. Let It be known that, in a unani­mous decision, the verdict was rendered that Htebazile Pmal<revah, of Lewis Prov­Ince Is the cuter of the two under consider­ation. Merry, merry Christmas, to you Htebazlle. Love, The Second Ranked 
P.S. Do you aver read the classlfleds? 
Ellen Murray: Ml!l'ry Xmas to all, 'till I see y'all some mo! Love, the puppy 
Thank you, St. Jude 
To Monica,Molly,Peggy,Susie,Lisa,and ESPECIALLY to The Little One. I'm so glad I've come to know you all. I wish evl!l'yone a Very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. GREG 
Merry Christmas Skid Row!! 
DETROIT Need ride lor break JEFF 2773875 
LOVE BARGE lives In New Jersey 
JEFF ABRAHAM, YOU ARE A GREAT PERSON. YOU NEED TO ENJOY LIFE MORE! KEEP SMILING, GET PLENTY OF SLEEP, AND DON'T WORRY ABOUT EXAMS. MERRY CHRISTMAS, MY FRIEND. MUFFY. 
HEY GUYS. WANT A GOOD TIME? CALL STACEY AT (901)·386-1'112 
FIELD HOCKEY WENCHES: THANKS SO MUCH FOR THE SWEATS. THEY'RE GREAT. I HAD A FUN TIME "MOTHERING" YOU THIS SEASON. HAVE A WILD CHRISTMAS. MOA 
Jenny, Good Luck in everything you do...Remember us all as you enjoy the "real world" of Toledo. Take care. Love, your friends. 
KAREN HORTON: Merry Christmas from your Kris Kringle. 
Dear Gumby, I tried to stop them from driving your car but I couldn't. I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I'm soooooo sorry .... l'm not sorry! Hahaaaaaaaaaaaa! Love and Kisses, The Mulch Pile. 
Karen, Thank you for the "Thank you" note. It made my day. Mike P.S. Merry Christmas 
MERRY CHRISTMAS! Kathy Shannon MlchaaiW.,.ka Carol Cerny Paul Montgomery Karan Koatecky John Gray Carrla Baker Kurt Holzberlaln Diana Yoder Bob Durkaan DeNt L01dl Mark Quigley Kathy Sommer MlkaHamlln ClndyWaeka LaoNtrdo Gomaz Laura Dowdan Kavln Murphy Marianna Bellon and have a HAPPY NEW YEAR I Love, Llaa Vlalngardl 
MERRY CHRISTMAS! DORENE DOMINGUEZ CAROL RADER KATHY SEILER GOOD LUCK ON FINALS AND SEE YOU NEXT YEAR!!!!!!!!!!!! LOVE, LISA 
WHODEY 
WHODEY 
WHODEY THINK GONNA BEAT THEM BENGALS. 
FOUND--TI-30·11 CALCULATOR IN PHYSICS 127. CALL MARK AT 4043. 
HOLIDAY LEG SHAVING SPECIAL! GO HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS W/ SMOOTH LEGS. ··IT'S DONE WHILE YOU WAIT IN OUR NEW LAKEFRONT OFFICE CALL MARK OR JOHN FOR AN APPOINTMENT AT 4043. REMEMBER--A HAIRY LEG IS A SCARY LEG. 
BEEJ! HEY BABE, MERRY CHRISTMAS! MAY THE SPIRIT OF CHRISTMAS SHINE UPON YOU, FIL­LING YOUR HEART AND MIND WITH PEACE AND JOY. JAKE P.S. HAPPY B­DAY! 
AnENTION SKID ROW: DUE TO THE EVENTFUL HOLIDAY CELEBRATION IN 2B, AN EQUALLY "HAPPY" NEW YEAR WIU TAKE PLACE IN SKID! SEE 
YOU FRIDAY?I 
Maura Hicl<ey, I have your camera, and will begin to dismembat' it if you don't pay the ransom! 
The Penguin 
BOB STEFAN, Sue said that you ... and then you ... hM. . so now she's. 
FOR SALE Pta1n Fruit of the Loom T -sh1rts from the Tom Alley Collection Food stains e)(tra 
Tht• •et , npr~nm·. 
1het yol wttl tt wondenng it you were ever gom~ lu Qalll. I'm really happy you stepped 1nto my life. (You know, I could get used to th1s') Good luck on finals, and rernember­
Someone's gonna be miasln' you over break' Merry Chri>tmasl -L. J. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS DAMNIT! TO PHYSICS229 PROFS 
5 DAYS TO CANDLES. DON'T GET NERVOUS SlEVE 
IF THE BOOKSTORE SOLD NOOSES I'D BE DEAD-A REAMED PHYSICS 229 STUDENT 
JOLLY OLD ST.NICHOLAS LEAN YOUR EAR THIS WAY DON'T YOU TELL A SINGLE SOUL WHAT I'M GOING TO SAY THANK YOU AND HAVE A MERRY CHRISTMAS!????? 
God's blessings and good cheer to all from the Gay Society of ND/SMC, PO Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
MARK OBEALIES 
MARK OBEALIES 
ETHYL: LIFE IS SO FUN! WHAT ARE 
YOU DOING TONIGHT? METHYL: OH, 
JUST GOING TO SMC, THE UNTAPPED 
RESOURCE,TO CRUISE SOME "MINT 
CHICKS." ETHYL: GOD! YOU GOnA 
LOVE THAT! METHYL: YEAH, I'M SO 
INTO IT, BUT MY SWEATER IS ALL 
STRETCHED OUT IN THE STOMACH 
BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHO HAS 
BEEN WEARIN IT. ETHYL: GOD! YOU GOnA HATE THAT! HIS SWEAT­SHIRT'S THE SAME WAY. METHYL: OH, THERE'S NO QUESTION. WELL, I'M OFF TO DO SOME COORDINATING SEE Ul ETHYL: NO! C.H.I OBES: NOW · DO YOU KNOW WHO WE ARE? HAPPY BIRTHDAY BUDDY! YOU'RE 
HILARIOUS! 
DAVE ROBINSON GOOD LUCK AT WHEATON AND BEST OF LUCK. WE HOPE THAT YOU START TO DO SOME WORK. GOD BLESS. FIRST WING ST. ED'S 
Dear Prof. Rober1 Miller of Stats 230 lame: We love you and your curve. Please remembat' us when you are figuring our grades or you too will find yourself on the Christmas tree (like the Angel.) Signed, Your9:30nctass 
Dear Michigan Bound (SMC students). Chris and Rita: Good Luck next semester. Maybe you can roadtrip to see us some time. Don't cause too much trouble. Rita has your car been towed yet? Matt. John, and Chris 
Has anyone heard of "Quincy, Illinois?" It is a little burg on the banks of the Missis­sippi, I need a ride there lor X-m8ll, and I don't want to walk. If you'll be driving thru Springfield or St. Louis I'll settle lor that. I can leave next Wednesday altl!l' 4:00. II you have room in your car call Andy at 1718. 
THE YELLOW SUB HAS FREE DELIVERY CALL 272-4453 MQ-TH 8­11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am 
Dear K.J. Candy and Bedtime stones made my world go round these past lew weeks! Thank You and Merry Christmas . Love and candy Kisses T.J. P.S. Sorry about Banjo-Keep Smiling 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SCALE Stephanie is accepting congratulations on reaching hill' 21st birthday at 284· 5526. Call her up and wish her a good one I 
Dayalnnlll 
The hotel party returns. Iguana does 
Madonna. Two rooms. one to party and 
one to .... Guest appearance by Marie Os­
mond. I wish I was at the Knights' Inn. Rot­
member not to break rule number 4, or 
rule number 5. Otto-grahs returns. How 
many times did we all have that Berlin 
song? 
Prepare the way for Days Inn IV. 
Anne O'Malley, 
Thanks so much lor my new s1ster, 
she's beautiful! Dad Is quite happy too. 
Have a good Christmas too. 
Tripp 
Merry Chrlatmaato all ZAAFSI 
Carolyn thanks for havmg that Bl!l'lin song with me on Saturday. Even after I had It twice with Staph earlil!l'. It was so good that I almost lost my contact OVIII' ill 
MERRY CHRISTMAS DEBBIE BUC­HANAN FROM YOUR SECRET AD­MIRER! 
ASSORTMENT: Merry Christmas to ... My roommates (all8 or 9 of them) at 351 The warped wonders of Farley 209 My English student and anyone I forgot Plas­tic Foosball Men rule the unlv81'8e Stay away from lime jetlo Smile! 2M 
Kristen J Any guts to break parletala again? Man&Greg The guardians of virtue. 
Matt&Greg I will get even I Crush the 
"Jury" Kristen! The Baave. 
THE WASHINGTON DC AREA PARTY ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED FOR 12127 AT IRISH TIMES HAS BEEN CHANGED THE PARTY WIU NOW BE HELD ON FRIDAY, 12/28 FROM 5:30 TO 9:00 AT MARSHALLS-2525 PENNSYLVANIA AVE. NW. THIS PARTY IS BEING CO­SPONSORED BY THE DC ALUMNI CLUB, SO AU ALUMNI ARE INVITED. 
TEAl: NOT TOO MUCH LONGER. THANKS FOR BEING YOU. LOVE, CS 
IRISH BOXER SHORTSIIIII For the genuine article at $5/pr stop by 423 Lyons or call Uz at2761 ..... 
MERRY CHRISTMAS to the esteemed 
A. Wolf! Love, Uz & Jill 
DAVE COWDEN we lust your body!! 
Michele, "I gueaa I thought you'd be here forever..." I'm not surewhat toaay I guess its just something you understand. Thanks, remernbat' me I'm really gonna miss you, but I'll be there when surf's up for pizza and beerl love, chrlstl pa you'll always be ok with me! 
YEA BUDDY: THE ANSWER TO LIFE, THE UNIVERSE, AND EVERYTHING IS 42111 
Sir James, Get paychedl-it'a almoet Christmas. (You're gonna love my cat.) Let's give 'ern hell on exama, ok? I love you, now and always. love, Kidde 
A GENNAIO VIENE ...IL FILM I!! 
HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO BE A STAR-TRYOUTS FOR MODELS AND EMCEES FOR THE 1965 BCAF FAS· HION SHOW WILL BE HELD THE WEEK OF JANUARY 21ST.TRYOUTS WILL BE HELD IN THE LAFORTUNE BALL­ROOM.TAKE A CHANCE-BECOME A STAR! 
MIKEY, GRACE, n MAN (282 LM) THANKS FOR PUniNG UP W/ME THIS SEM. IT'S BEEN TOTALLY FUN. AND FOR SURE WE'U HAVE A COOL BREEZE TIME NEXT SEM. I'U BE THINKING OF "YOU ALL" WHEN I'M ON THE ALPS. SISTER GRACE KEEP UP YOUR "GOD BLESS···" I NO MAnER HOW HARD IT GETS. MIKEY, " I'M SUPPOSE TO BE THE PATIENT " SO TRY NOT TO GET SICK THIS BREAK AS FOR YOU MOM BEnER LOSE THOSE 10 LBS. OR IT'S A FREE MEAL AT CHI CHI'S FOR ME! I'Ll MISS YA! LOVE, BEAU (I GUESS NOW IT'S SISTER BEAVER CLEAVER) 
TO THE 2ND SEMSTER GIRLS: CON· GRATS ON A SUCCESSFUL 1ST SE­MESTER BUT LOOK OUT NEXT SEMESTER GUYS, HERE WE COME I! LOVE YA, THE PRESS 
Mary Chris Maselli Happy Birthday -a week early! Regret I won't ba hl!l'e ­maybe Chgo? Hope It's as terrific as you are. Love, EM. 
Dear Mom Dad Donna Sexy Spanky Or­blt? Bathy have The beet Christmas evl!l' Love Teen 
--IT'S DONE WHILE YOU WAIT IN OUR NEW LAKEFAOIIIT OFFICE. CAU MARK OR JOHN FOR AN APPOINT­MENT AT 4043. REMEMBER--A HAIRY LEG IS A SCARY LEG 
BEEJI HEY BABE, MERRY CHRISTMAS! MAY THE SPIRIT OF CHRISTMAS SHINE UPON YOU, FIL­LING YOUR HEART AND MIND WITH PEACE AND JOY JAKE P.S. HAPPY B­DAYI 
AnENTION SKID ROW: DUE TO THE EVENTFUL HOLIDAY CELEBRATION IN 2B, AN EOUALL Y "HAPPY" NEW YEAR WILL TAKE PLACE IN SKID! SEE YOU FRIDAY?! K&K ---------------DAVE (CSY), OUR TURN TO SLAMI K&K ••••••• ------------CHRIS DOES THE SOUTH­WEST STUDS! 'wHO'S NEXT? 
K,K,&PDD ................. TRICIA, SANTA CLAUS IS COMIN' 
DEAREST JOHN, KYLE, TED, MAn. DAVE, BILL, RICH, JOE, TOM, KEVIN, JAMMER. LOVE, FRAN AND NANCY P.S. OH YEAH. MERRY CHRISTMASIII 
Hey NO menl MEG PAYNE The Cutest Girt On Campus. Ia 20 Fnday. Give her your big birthday present and help con· sumate hill' trip Into adulthood' 
To Carlos, Terry ,and Paul: Thoughtlor the day: Pomes Will die! Stanga Will fall! SMU will go down' Irish will deetroy! -SAMUEL 
HEYNIKKII! I hear you wl!l'e applying Calc concepts at the formal Sat.(l.e. the 31st derivative) 
Saturday nile, Dec. 15, in Chatagua Ball­
room The Age of Anxiety A lrightemng, compelling group of musical compositions. screaming at and with the bloody New Days. Original Songs by Jim Keyes and Paul Mclean. Perlormance beg1ns at 9:00 
TOM DARROW· Good lucl< on your finals this week! Thanks for all your help this semestl!l'. Love, Your Walsh KK 
To John Goins: Someone who loves you Vl!l'y much is wishing you a Happy Birthday. Can you guess who? 
Ae we are knee-deep In booka and trying to pull out a decent GPA In the next six days of exams, let us look aheed to next semaater. One phrase that should come to mind Is, "STEVE DEMARTINO FOR UMOC." Dort't forget your pennleal 
To the WILD AND CRAZY WOMEN of 221 F-'RLEY HALL· Have a great break. Enjoy your Christmas up here In the north. Stay nice and wamn. ME 
HEYPODDLEI 
O.K. SO YOU'RE A BURNOUT AND YOU DON'T PLAY FOOTBALL OR HAVE SHORT HAIR. CHEER UPI YOU'RE GONNA MISS ME ANYWAY! HAVE FUN NEXT SEMESTER! YOU LOVE ME, NIPPLETOES 
CLASSIFIEDS 
see page 16 


The Observer Wednesday, December 12,1984-page 16 
·. ' 
Gary Carter and Mets reach final agreement 
TheNROTC CollegeProgram. $2,000ExpenseMoneyAnd ANavyOfficerCommission. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to $2,000 plus the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks, and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
Stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, or dial 239-7274/6442 and ask for LT Wachtl. 
-NavyOfficersGetResponsibilityFast.­

montgomery 
will conduct interviews on th1s campus WEDNESDAY, FEB.27 
& THURSDAY, FEB. 28. _ Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your 
campus, contact your placement office. 
montgomery 
ELEVATORS· ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company. Moltne. lllinots 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co., Ltmlted. Toronto. Ontano M9B3S5 Offices in pnnctpal cittes of North America 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Gary Carter already had the champagne on ice at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla., when New York Mets General Manager Frank Cashen and as­sociates arrived to talk about a con­tract. 
And, in a matter of hours, Cashen was using a typewriter left over from Carter's college days to make the last-minute contract revisions that would bring Carter to the Mets. 
"I got into his car at the airport and we shook hands," Cashen said. "I went down there knowing I would have to negotiate, but In his mind, he already had the uniform on." 
The trade that sent four Mets, in­cluding shortstop Hubie Brooks and catcher Mike Fitzgerald, to the Montreal Expos for Carter was made during baseball's winter meetings last week. It was completed Monday when the Mets agreed to assume Carter's contract and include a no­trade clause. 
In return for the no-trade clause, Carter agreed not to exercise his right to demand a trade during the remaining five years on his contract, believed to be worth about S1 .87 million per year. 
Carter was not taking calls yester­day, but he had a 2 p.m. news confer­ence scheduled for today at Shea Stadium. Yesterday, Cashen des­cribed the high-level negotiations to a small gathering of reporters at the ballpark. 
"We had to change some of the conditions in his contract," Cashen said, "so we had to find a typewriter. He (Carter) found an old one he used in college. The ribbon was dried up a little bit, but AI (Hacazin, Mets vice president) punched It out with one finger." 
Women 
continuedfrom page 20 
housecleaning after a poor showing 
( I 7-12) last season in an attempt to 
get her team to return to its old form 
when it was, perennially, one of the 
top teams in the nation. 
The Bruins will be tough, but not 
as tough as the Trojans and Cheryl 
The team finally will return to Notre Dame on}an. 14 to take on the Flames of Illinois-Chicago. The teams played last season, and the Irish won by 19 in Chicago. The game begins at 7 p.m. in the ACC. 
IRISH ITEMS -Dougherty, who scored 28 points and had 13 assists in two games last week, was named North Star Conference player of the week. 
Miller will be. linda Sharp lost the talented McGee twins to graduation, but she still has quite a bit of talent left from the team which has won the last two national championships. Miller, perhaps the greatest female player ever, once again should help the Trojans challenge for No. I. 
After completing the West Coast trip, the Irish will have to turn around and fly to the East Coast for a pair of games against LaSalle and Maryland. The Explorers ace the mystery team of the break, as DiS­tanislao knows very little about 
Introducing the NEC Advanced Personal Computer III True 16-bit technology with 128KB RAM, Dual 360KB Ooppy diskette drives, 14 inch monochrome display unit, Wordstar Professional word processing software, 2030 Spinwrite letter quality printer, Cutsheet space guide, and Printer cable. Limited time offer $2495. Available from Professional Business Management, Inc. 
17903 State Road 23 
South Bend, IN 46556 
219/277-7723 
them at this time. Maryland is no mystery, though, because the Irish and the highly rated Terps will be playing for the third straight season. The Terps won the first two games by 25 and 17 points, respectively. Chris Weller has lost some key players from last year's team, though, and will be relying on her stronginside players to pick up most of the slack. 
Classifieds 
continuedfrom page 15 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
CaD Chris at: 234-8997 
Peggy, ma copine 
Je te souhaite une joyueux Noel et une 
bonne annee! May the New Year hold 
many more outings to senior bar and 
more adVentures than the past semester!! 
Start brainstorming for spring break and 
shopping for that formal tux/dress! 
luvSzan 
Kevin What are you going to do with me???l'm looking forward to seeing what sort of new year resolutions you'll be making ... 
-your downfall 
Hail Mary, lull of grace, the Lord is with thee; Blessed art thou amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen. 
KAREN, I LOVE YOU. I CAN'T WAIT TO VISIT YOU OVER BREAK. GOOD LUCK ON YOUR NURSING FINAL. LOVE, EARL 
CARA, MAP, KEW, DEB, MYM, TRISH, 
•MEUS, You guys are the greatest. Thanks for all your support this semester. Good luck on finals, have a very Merry Christmas & Happy New Year!!!! I'll miss you over break. Get psyched to live it up our last se­mester. 
LDve, T 
DEBBERTY: You've been a terrific 
.. 
roommate! Thanks for a wonderful se­mester. Love. Dianne 
To all my personal-loving friends--this one·s for you. we·re going to make it through finals' In the words of Tiny Tim: GOD BLESS US EVERY ONE! Merry Christmas, Dianne 
m..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMII........HIIIIHII...IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..I .......HIIHIII! 
STUDENT SPECIAL ALOHA BOWL 
December 24-31, 1984 $899 perperson triple oct;upancy 
TRAVEL WITH THE TEAM CHARTER FLIGHT FROM CHICAGO 6 NIGHTS WAIKIKI ACCOMMODATIONS 
! TRANFERS IN HAWAII WITH TICKET TO THE ALOHA BOWL 
Call downtown office only 236-2656 ask for the Aloha Bowl 
Master Card or Visa accepted student ID required 
Box 1602 South Bend. Indiana 46634 (219)236-2656 
HI.....IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIHI..IHIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIHIIII.........III!!!!f!!IIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII!!!HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1 
---~--~~-----~--~-----~--------------~~ --~~---~-~----­
The Observer Wednesday, December 12, 1984-page 17 
Irish remain absent 
Georgetown, DePaul still top poll
ANY NIGHTS 
Associated Press Duke, 5-0, following a 78-65 vic-Louisville, which lost starting 
A GREAT NIGHT AT ABILENE'S 
sormAv ALL YOU CAN EAT COUNTRY FRIED CHICKEN MASHED POTATOES & COLE SLAW  $4.50  
MONDAY ALL YOU CAN EAT CHILI SPAGHETTI TEXAS TOAST  $3.25  
WEDNESDAY  
ALL YOU CAN EAT BBQ BEEF RIBS FRENCH FRIES & COLE SLAW  $4.95  
THURSDAY BURGER NIGHT BURGER. FRENCH FRIES & SUNDAE  $4.25  
FRIDAY  


guard Milt Wagner because of a fractured foot Dec. 1, was beaten, 73-64, by Louisiana Tech in last Friday's opening round of the Wendy's Classic. The loss dropped the Cardinals from sixth to 14th in the poll. 
Indiana, which defeated Kentucky 81-68 on national television Satur­day, but lost to Notre Dame 74-63 during the week, fell from 1 1 th to 16th, and Nevada-Las Vegas, 1-2, which was humiliated by Geor­getown, dropped from the Top Twenty and was replaced by Mic­higan, 5-0, last season's National In­vitation Tournament champion. 
The Second Ten consists of Virginia Tech, Georgia Tech, North Carolina, Louisville, Oklahoma, Indiana, Alabama-Birmingham, Kansas, louisiana State and Mic­higan. 
Last week, it was Indiana, Syracuse, Louisiana State, Virginia Tech, Georgia Tech, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Alabama-Birmingham. Kansas and Nevada-Las Vegas. 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty COllege basketball teams In The Assoc1at&d Press poll, with first-place votes In paren­theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20.19-18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
are ittJ/iclz&d.  
1. Georgetown (63)  5-0  1279  
2. DePaul (I)  5-0  1188  
3. Duke  5-0  1059  
4. St. John's  4.0  1045  
5. Memphis St.  4-o  987  
6. Illinois  9-1  980  
7. So. Methodist  4-0  865  
8. Washington  4·0  790  
9. N. carolina St.  5-0  ns  
10. Syracuse  4.0  605  
11. Virginia Tech  4.0  536  
12. Georgia Tech  3·0  472  
13. North carolina  4.0  440  
14. louisville  3-1  437  
15. Oklahoma  5-2  364  
16. Indiana  2·2  289  
17. Ala.-Birmingham  5-1  263  
18. Kansas  6-1  258  
19. Louisiana St.  4-1  208  
20. Michigan  5-0  113  

College basketball's top two teams· No. 1 Georgetown, winner of 16 straight games over two seasons and the defending NCAA champion, and runner-up DePaul -are heading for a showdown Saturday. 
Georgetown, which raised its record this season to 5-0 with an 82­46 thrashing of Nevada-las Vegas last Saturday in a nationally televised game at Landover, Md., in its first test against a Division I team, dominated this week'sAssociated Press poll. 
The Hoyas received 63 of 64 first­place votes and 1,279 points from a national panel of sports writers and broadcasters in retaining the top spot. 
DePaul, also 5-0, and which travels to landover to face the Hoyas in another nationally televised con­test Saturday, collected the other first-place vote and 1,188 points to hold second place. 
tory over Virginia in an Atlantic Coast Conference game last weekend, moved from fourth place to third with 1,059 points, 14 ahead ofSt.John's. 
The Redmen followed a pair of one-point victories over St. Bonaventure and Fordham with a 77-61 triumph over Rutgers Sunday, but slipped to fourth place with 1,045 points. 
Memphis • State, 4-0, defeated UCLA 86-70 Saturday and remained fifth with 987 points. Illinois, 9·1, received 960 points and moved up one place from last week's poll, as did Southern Methodist, 4-0, Wash­ington, 4-0, and North Carolina State, 5-0. Syracuse, 4-0 and 12th in last week's poll, completed the Top Ten. 
SMU had 865 points, Washington 790, North Carolina State 779 and Syracuse 605. 

' . 

Men 
continuedfrom page 20 
on people. We have to be careful 
that they don't sneak up on us." 
For Notre Dame, the break will be a chance to get everyone healthy and work on a few things in practice. Gillen says the Notre Dame coaches will try to sharpen execution and work on the little things in the addi­tional practice time they have with the players after finals. 
"We also want to improve our press," the Irish assistant adds. "But the key for us the rest ofthe year is to improve our inside scoring. We need to get points out of our inside people consistently because you win with the big guys against quality teams." 
Conceivably, Notre Dame could win its four games during break, come home and beat Holy Cross at home on jan. 16, and be I0-1 when DePaul comes to the ACC on the 20th for a rematch of last Saturday's loss at the Rosemont Horizon. But that is a long way off. 
"Those are really going to be a tough four games," says Gillen. "Three out of four would be great. It's certainiy not going to be easy. The key to the rest of the season will be these four games and to stay healthy." 
Just as important to the season, though, is the other game which will take place from Friday until next Wednesday· final exams. 
THE S.A.B. ANNOVNCES THE OPENING OF: 
NOTREDA E STUDENT SAVER 

THESTUDENTGENERALSTORE FOR STUDENT NEEDS IN SCHOOL SUPPLIES & BEAUTY AIDS 
opening: TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1985 hours: 4-8pm MON -FRI 
----~......-------~ ~~~--------------~ --~----~---­
Sports Briefs 
A downhill ski trip is being sponsored by NVA next semester for both beginning and advanced skiers. Anyone who is interested who owns skis should remember to bring them back after break. -The Observer 
Holiday hours for the ACC will be as follows: Dec. 13 and 14: 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.; Dec. 15: 7 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Dec. 16: 10 a.m. to6p.m.; Dec. 17 to Dec. 21:7 a.m. to6p.m.;)an. 14:7 a.m. to 4 p.m.; jan 15: 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.-The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer 
Wednesday, December 12, 1984 -page 18 
Valparaiso tonight 
Wrestlers take on first good foes 
ByJOE BRUNETII 
Sports Writer 
Fran McCann's Irish wrestling squad plays host to a comparatively weaker squad from Valparaiso tonight in the ACC while trying to improve its dual meet record to 4-0 and prepare for its upcoming stiff competition. 
Last year Notre Dame annihilated Valpo, 54-0, and McCann's much­improved squad should be able to increase that margin this year. The only way the Irish will drop this one is if McCann's entire squad comes down with a severe case of mono; otherwise, the Irish will head into Christmas break with an un­blemished record. 
The few days off before the Irish travel to Deland, Fla., for the Sun­shine Open will provide the Irish with some much-needed time to heal some injuries. 
"Christmas break will give them 
the chance to get away," comments 

SAVE WITH PIZZA HUT® SPECIAl. DELIVERY 
IN SOUTH BENDAND MISHAWAKA 
STATE UNE RD. 
"And delivery is FREE!" Get the great taste of p;zza Hut® pizza delivered right to your door! Call the number shown above for p;zza Hut® Special 
Delivery to your area. FRESH! HOT! li4ST! 
Hours: 4:00pm-12M, Sun. -Thurs. 4:00pm -2:00am, Fri. -Sat. 
Umited Delivery Aree. Our drivers ca"y no more then $20.
r--------­
1 $30FF I any Large Pizza 
~ ~~?;!,.~""~'!':~a! 
I 
participating Pizze Hut' Special Delivery units. Not velid for dine-in or catTyOut, or in combination with eny other Pizza Hut' offe!: Umited Delivery Aroa. Offer good only on regular menu prices through 
I CALL: 232-2499 
the Notre Dame mentor. "It will give our guys a good chance to heal up." 
Among the Irish casualties are Guy Locksmith (back), Matt Stamm (knee), and Eric Crown (ankle). Crown has had his ankle in a cast' since he was injured in the season opener at the Michigan State Invita­tional. The Irish also will get back the services of sophomore George Logsdon, who has been academi­cally ineligible the flrst semester. 
"We will really be able to establish our team (during break)," said McCann. "We haven't been able to really establish our team because we have had some guys out. We're going to get all our guys back (from injuries) during Christmas." 
So far the Irish have yet to encounter any tough teams in their dual-meet schedule, and the tourna­ment competition has been fairly mild, but things will change when McCann takes his squad south for -Christmas. 
At the Sunshine Open on Dec. 28 and 29, the Irish will encounter the likes of Syracuse and last year's tournament champion, Navy. They also may encounter North Carolina State, whose heavyweight weighs in at close to 350 pounds. 
The Irish then will travel north to Clemson, S.C., to take on the Clem­son Tigers and Southwestern Mis­souri State in a tri-meet on Jan. 11 before competing in the Tiger 8 Tournament the next day. 
"We're going to come against some real quality teams," says McCann, "but that's what I want. I want some tougher competition." 
After the Irish return from break they will be taking on teams such as Purdue and Nebraska. 
"We're finishing the first half (of the season)," said McCann. "Now the competition will get better. Our guys will have a chance to relax, and we can get a lot more accomplished in the practice room." 
With the Cornhuskers and the Boilers on tap for next semester the Irish will need to accomplish a lot in practice. 


MERRY CHRISTMAS 
FROM THE HAIRUMM STAFF 
Stop by and let us help you look your best for the holidays 
GOOD LUCK ON FINALSI 
Take an hour off to let your brain rest and your body soak up some warm rays EXAM WEEK SPECIAL Buy 2 sessions for $10 and get·a third one FREE 
GOOD THROUGH 12125184 
CALL 234-5350  OPEN  Walk-Ins  
143 Dixie Way South  M-F:9-R  Welcome  
Roseland-South Bend  Sat:8-5  Only I mil.  
from campus  




---~--~~----------~



___--_~--=~------____ 
T0 day____________________
w_e_d_n_e_s_d_ay_,_o_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_12_,_1_9_8_4__P_a_g_e_1_9 
Doonesbury 

IWUL,(F!ffl7HERif5A [}A/?j( 
I f/N~fi!Siflf3 70 f1We' AKJN/J 
CF !Jf5PfiRA7E NECPfORMORE I AN{)lrlOR& ATTfNTION. tT5UJII!J's 8tf&N CA/..I..&P 7H13 174./WRE a= 
Tank McNamara 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 36 Adam's grandson 68 Styles 12 Units 38 Oriental sash 69 Proboscis 13 Relax 
1 Moist garments 71 Fashion 5 A captor of 41 More verdant 72 Limn 
21 Midi resort 
Dionysus 43 Sea bird 24 Resounded10 Cupid 44 Escape slowly DOWN 26 Derision14 Arrow polson 27 Symbol of 15 Pursue 46 Dionysus' plenty16 Numberof mother 1 Record 28 "-longa,Hydra's heads 47 Cozy 2 Celebes ox vita brevis" 
49 Chagall 3 Honeyed drink 30 Beetles17 Fly high 51 Ponder 4 Machu Plcchu 32 White poplar 18 Tribal symbols 52 Intimidate land 
20 Medical symbol 54 Rich cake 5 Played a part 
22 Having the 56 Slag 6 Ought to 33 Foreboding greatest age 59 Young plant 34 Aviators 23 Mortimer or 64 Symbols of 7 Opalescent gem 35 Pipe part 
Felix academic 8 Employ 37 Appeared to be. 25 Affirmative achievement 9 Strewn In 40 Bench 26 Examine heraldry 
29 Pair 66 Culture medium 10 Battery parts 42 Flightless bird 31 Afr. village 67 Perlcarp's 11 Symbols of 45 Science of 34 Querclne nuts cousin progress versification 
Blow on over to the ... 

LOOK
SABRecord 
INTO
Store 
DARBY'S
Pick up the new album you've been wanting! 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii• in the basement of Lafortune 
Garrv Trudeau 
OH.. 
HOW ON 
ASCL, 
OKAY" 

39 Restraining 70 Socials 19 Work at a trade 57 Custody 65 Acquired 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

48 Goat antelopes 58 Naval VIPs 50 Yarn used In 60 Country 
fancywork 61 Stravinsky or 53 Be successful Sikorsky 55 Past or future 62 Space agency 
56 Begone! 63 Increased 
Tuesday's Solution 
for late night mahchies 
Campus 
Wednesday, Dec.12 
•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters Internadonal, Organization to Improve Public Speaking, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•7-9-p.m.-Informadonal 
Meedng, Rome Pro­gram, Prof. Peter Checca, SMC, Room 232 Moreau Hall. 

•8 
p.m. -Board Meedng, International Students Organization, ISO Lounge, LaFortune. 

•8 
& I 0 p.m. -Christmas Concert, Notre Dame 


Glee Club, Washington Hall. Thursday, Dec. 14 
•-Study Day, 
•4:30 p.m. -College of Science Lecture Series, Mathematical Lecture by Prof. Angus Macintyre, Room 226 CCMB. 
Friday, Dec. 14 

•10 
a.m. -Civil Engr. Research Seminar, "Adsorption & Biodegradation on Granular Ac­tivate Carbon," Gerald Spcitel, Jr., University of North Carolina, Room 202 CCE. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chern. Dept. Reilly Lecture, "Laser Characterization of Chemistry & Chemical Inter­mediates in Supersonic Free Jet Expansions," Prof. Terry Miller, Room 123 Nieuwland. 


Saturday, Dec.15 

•-No Events, 
Sunday, Dec. 15 

•8 p.m. -Music Dept. Concert, "A Little Advent Music," Notre Dame Collegium, Craig Westendorf, Director. 
' 
TV Tonight 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 

16 Highway to Heaven 22 Charles in Char~c: 28 Fall Guy 34 Smithsonian World-The l.ast Flower 22 E.R. 
16 FacL~ of Life 22 Movie 28 Dynasty 34 An Evening of Championship Skatin~ 
'84 

16 It's Your Move 
16 St. Elsewhere: 
28 Hotel 
34 jazz Comes Home to Newport 
.... ' 


Irish to play tough contests over break 
ByJEFF BLUMB LaSalle (the first game after finals), Assistant Sports Editor we didn't play well. We weren't sharp at all. 'The Notre Dame men's basketball "Omaha is a great Notre Dame 
team plays five games over town. The game is already a sellout. Christmas break -one at home and It'll be tough." four on the road. Before the 5-1 Irish lbe Charlotte Coliseum is the even pack their bags, though, they next stop for the Irish, as they travel 
must first contend with that home to North Carolina to face an old 
game -final exams. nemesis in Davidson on Jan. 5. lbe In recent years, Notre Dame Wildcats have given Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps has not had a trouble each of the last two years, whole lot of luck in keeping his beating the Irish in overtime two 
players eligible after finals. Last year, years ago in Charlotte and taking Dan Duff and Barry Spencer fell by Notre Dame to an extra period last the wayside in December. Right year at the ACC before losing by 
now, however, it appears that Phelps three. will have everyone eligible for "This probably will be their big­second semester. gest game of the year," says Gillen. "Everyone looks okay going into "They live for the Notre Dame 
their finals," said Irish assistant game." coach Pete Gillen yesterday. "We're It will be the last game between just keeping our fingers crossed." the two teams as the present con­
A big goal for Notre Dame after tract runs out. finals will be to break into the The Irish will slip on their cowboy Associated Press Top Twenty, which boots two days later, traveling to 
the Irish failed to make this week Houston for a showdown with Rice despite their 74-63 upset victory at tiny Autry Court. The Owls over then-II th-ranked Indiana last finished 13-1 7 last year playing out 
Tuesday. of the Southwest Conference, and are rebuilding under Coach Tommy 
When finals are over, the team Suitts. will begin regular workouts again on "They're a ball-control team," Gil-the 19th, practice through the 22nd, ' len says. "They hold the ball and try break for Christmas and then come to get it inside. They want to keep 
The Observer/Chaltanya Panchal 
back on the 26th. the score in the 50's. If we let them
The Notre Dame basketball team will be sur­hurdle theirfinal exams, they mustfacefour tough 
The Irish won't have much time to do that, we could have problems."
rounded by challenges much as DonaldRoyal( 15) teams during break.jeffBlumb details the schedule 
regain their timing after the three­
was surrounded by opponents in this season's in his story atright. 
day respite. Notre Dame goes to Notre Dame ends its four-game
opening game with Manhattan. After the Irish 
Omaha, Neb., only three days later road swjng with a Jan. 12 contest for a Dec. 30 game with Creighton. with Marquette at the Milwaukee
Seven games over break 
The Bluejays, coached by former Arena. l11e game will be the first of New York Knicks star Willis Reed, two with Marqueue this season, as finished last season at 17-14. That the Warriors will come to the ACC
Women's team faces critical stretch 
was good enough for an NIT bid, but for a March 6 rematch. By MIKE SULLIVAN give Notre Dame some badly the ACC for a game on Dec. 20. The Creighton dropped out in its first Marquette already has jumped out Sports Editor needed scoring punch from the Spartans did not lose any letter win­tournament game, losing to Ne­to a 4-0 record this year, including 
outside. The outside threat has taken ners from last year's team that braska, 56-54. impressive victories over Loyola at 
lbe three-and-a-half weeks from some of the pressure off the Irish finished 18-10, including a 73-72 Seven-foot junior Benoit Ben­home and at Northwestern. Al­Dec. 20 to jan. I 5 have been desig­front line, which had been carrying win over the Irish in East Lansing. jamin is the center of attention for though on paper this figured to be an nated as the semester break for all more than 80 percent of the scoring Four players averaged over 1 0 Creighton. Benjamin, an honorable off year for the Warriors with the 
Notre Dame students. However, for burden. points per game last year for Karen mention on several all-America loss of Marc Marotta and Dwayne the Irish women's basketball team, The experienc;e ofDougherty and Langevin's team, led by 6-3 junior teams last year, also was the nation's Johnson to graduation, they have this time period hardly will be a fellow seniors Carrie Bates, Mary center MllTJ' Kay McNall ( 13.4 ppg) second-leading shot blocker a year been bolstered by the addition of ''break." Beth Schueth and Ruth Kaiser also is and 5-10 forward Kris Emerson ago with 157. He has blocked at least Walter Downing, who transferred _Mary DiStanislao's squad has to going to be important to the ream's ( 13.0 ppg). one shot in every game of his col­from DePaul. play seven games before the next se­success against die top teams. All of Notre Dame will travel to the legiate career, slapping away a "They're a tough and physical mester, beginning with a game at them have had plenty ofexperience West Coast after Christmas to take career-high 1 1 in a game with Tulsa team," says Gillen of the Warriors. Northern Illinois tonight. The fun against some of the best teams in the on old rival UCLA and the Lady last year. "They're quietly doing well this really starts after exams, though, as country, and Dougherty, for one, has Trojans. UCLA will be trying to The Irish coaches have targeted year, and they would rather beat 
the Irish face four of the best teams had some of her best games against avenge last year's 70-61 loss to the this game as one of the team's key Notre Dame than anybody. Al­in the country, including the two­the top teams. Irish. Coach Billie Moore did a major games of the season. though they don't have a lot of time defending national champion, Despite the experience of her "This is a very difficult game for us depth, they're good at sneaking up 
Southern Cal. team -ten players return from last because it's our first game after the 
see WOMEN, page 16 see MEN, page 17
It is this stretch ofgames that will year's squad -DiStanislao realizes break," Gillen says. "Last year against show DiStanislao and women's bas­that it will be very tough, though not ketball watchers how Notre Dame impossible, for her team to get 
Four-game East Coast swing 
compares with top teams around the through the break unscathed. country. Come jan. 19, 1985, the "It's hard to say what I'd call a su~;:­day the Irish begin North Star Con­cessful break, but a lot of it depends 
Hockey team readies for road trip
ference play, Notre Dame should be on how well we play," says DiStanis­either one of the top 40 teams in the lao. "I feel we're in a position with all By ED DOMANSKY dismal 6-18-l mark. But after eight Northern Michigan of the WCHA. nation or just another building pro­these teams, though, that we can Sports Writer games in this year, the Tigers are 4-4. l11e Irish will face-off against toui-na­gram. control our own destiny. Last weekend, Princeton lost, 12-4, ment host, Yale, at 9 p.m. The cham­
Fortunately for the Irish, it ap­"Even with a team like USC, I hope The Notre Dame hockey team to nationally ranked Rennsalear pionship contest is scheduled for 3 pears that they are beginning to find to be in a situation where they'll may not play a game again until Jan. Polytechnic Institute and defeated p.m. on Saturday, following the con­a good groove. They have have to play very well to beat us." 2, but preparations already are un­Vermont, 4-1. Junior forward Pat solation game which leads off the 
demolished their last two oppo. One thing is for sure, though. The derway for what should be a very Brodeur is the team leader with six day's action at noon. nents, West~rn Michigan and Geor­Irish are in the part oftheir schedule challenging four-game road trip to goals and six assists. getown, by 30 and 23 points, where they have to play well just to the East Coast over Christmas break. In Hartford, the Phoenix Mutual The trip finale is scheduled for respectively, by playing at the level win. On the second day of the new 
will put the young Irish up against Jan. 7 when Holy Cross will play host at which they were expected to Even tonight's game with Nor­year, the 5-7 Irish will take on the their stiffest competition of the to the Irish in Worcester. Forward pl_ay. They must continue to play at thern Illinois will be tough since the Tigers of Princeton. Then on Friday season, but head coach Lefty Smith is Jerry DeLeo leads the 2-4 Crusaders 
this level if they are to cause prob­Huskies are the favorites to win the and Saturday, jan. 4 and 5, Notre optimistic about his team's chances. with I'5 points on seven goals and lems for the USCs and Marylands 
Mid-American Conference. Jane Dame, along with Yale, Northern "We'll be facing teams with great eight assists. The Crusaders boast 12 that are ahead on the schedule. Albright's squad has used the transi­Michigan and Colgate, will partici­
hockey programs," said Smith. "We returning letter winners from last 
"The kids are beginning to find tion game to its advantage, winning pate in the second annual Phoenix certainly have to consider ourselves season's 10-l 5-3 squad. their hearts," says DiStanislao. "Now three of its first four games. Senior Mutual Hockey Classic in Hartford, the underdogs. But if we play the they've got to use those hearts to im­forward Lisa Starosta and guard Pam Conn. 
kind of hockey we're capable of, we Notre Dam~ has been a team prove_ every day. If they do that, Simmons are the players Notre The Irish will take a day-off for can make a good showing. We which has seen its ups and downs so that's alii can ask." Dame needs to stop. Starosta has travel, then on Monday, jan. 7 they scheduled-this eastern trip with the far this season. But the Christmas 
The key to the team's improve­been killing opponents by averaging will round out the road swing in 
hope of returning credibility to our break often has been a turning.point ment has been the play of guard 19.3 points and 13.5 rebounds per Worcester, Mass., where they will program so everyone is anxious to . for Irish hockey teams. And this Laura Dougherty. The senior co­game. Simmons has contributed 17 
meet Holy Cross. see what we can do." season, a solid performance in the 
captain, who saw limited action points per game. When Notre Dame arrives in The tournament will get under East may be just the boost the Irish 
during the first four games, in which The schedule gets even tougher Princeton, it will take on a Tiger way Friday, Jan. 4 at 6 p.m. when will need to meet successfully the the Irish were 1-3, has emerged to after exams as Michigan State visits squad that finished last season with a defending champion Colgate meets challenges still ahead. 







