Irish Extra -page 9 

Salaries?Well ... 
Many Arts and Letters students took a step awayfrom the Dome and toward a workingfuture atyesterday'sArts andLetters career day. Company rept·esentatives explained the wor~ing world to 



No United Way funds will support agencies that sponsor abortions 
ByJOEREID 
News Staff 
No money collected in this year's 
United Way fund drive will support 
agencies that provide abortions, said 
Patrick Mangan, United Way staff ad· 
visor. Also, this year dorms can 
specify what agency will receive the 
money they collect. 

"Ninety-nine percent of the money collected will remain in the local agencies and one percent will go to the national United Way. The one percent covers administrative costs and none will go to the other United Ways," said Mangan, associ­ate director for campaign and com­munication of St. Joseph County's United Way. 
President of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life, Teresa Donovan, said, "We understand the St. Joseph County United Way does not contribute in any way to Planned Parenthood (an agency that considers abortion an alternative to pregnancy). The University Right to Life Organization has no problems with this year's drive, although some people may on principle." 
Although the local United Way does not sponsor agencies that promote abortions, one percent of the money collected covers admin­istrative costs for the national United Way, and some United Way branches do choose to promote such agencies. 

Besides the annual door to door approach, Co-Chairmen of Notre Dame's United Way Drive, Tom Lezynski and Steve Bert asked each dorm to do something extra to generate funds. Keenan Hall Presi­dent Kevin Howard said, "We are going to give a week's revenue from our game room and raise the price of our SYR tickets Sl." Howard said most dorms will probably adopt a particular agency to support. 
Campus events are also planned this year to help the drive attain its S12,500 goal. Lezynski said planned events include "Monday Night Foot· ball" night at Senior Bar, two showings ofOctopussy, and possibly a dance in the ACC Monogram Room Oct. 12. 
Lezynski emphasized there was "no limit in giving" and calls on the students to support the activities. This year's slogan is, "Caring costs a lot, not caring costs more." 
Non-alcoholic social events are successful, says SMC dean 
By CATIIYANN REYNOLDS 
News Staff 
"More events that are fun are without alcohol,"said Saint Mary's Dean of Student Affairs Karol Jack­owski last night in Regina Hall's South Lounge. 
Her talk was a part of Alcohol Awareness Week. She spoke on the history of alcohol policies at Saint Mary's. 
Dry since 1844, in 1977 Saint Mary's revised its policy. Since then the administration, the faculty and the students, have worked together 
to examine the use of alcohol at so­
cial events. 
The "hardest obstacle with a policy is the attitude 'we can't have a good time without alcohol,' "Jack­owski said. This fall she notices "angry Notre Dame students coming here and drinking." Jackowski says this "anger will take time to work out." The success of an alcohol policy depends on the "attitude of the administration," Jackowski said. 
In 1979, a national survey of col­lege students showed that of those surveyed, 1S percent ofSaint Mary's students, eight percent of Notre 

Congress fails to approve emergency finance measures 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON · Despite last· minute attempts by Congress to keep federal funds flowing, the White House told hundreds of thousands of federal workers to go home at midday yesterday after law­makers failed to appru¥e a $';00 bil­lion catchall spending bill needed to keep most of the government sol vent. 
While the government was par­tially shut down, Pn:sident Reagan and congressional leaders traded partisan charges of who was to blame for the mess, which also left in doubt whether Congress could meet its target of adjourning for the year by the end of the week. 
'Ibe House voted yesterday mor­ning to approve an emergency spending extension to finance out­of-ca'ih government agencies through 6 p.m. EDT today, and the Senate followed suit early in the eve­ning. 
Edwin Dale, spokesman for the White House Office of Management and the Budget, said the president was expected to sign the temporary money measure. All furloughed workers, he said, sbtiuld report for work at their regular time today. 
Before acting on the temporary measure, the long-term bill -the most expensive, most-inclusive piece of legislation ever to be con· sidered by Congress -gained final Senate approval on a voice vote after more than a week of debate cul­minated by two around-the-clock Senate sessions. 
Congressional negotiators, 

' meeting to work out a compromise version of the spending bills passed by the House and.Senate, indicated they would be bargaining all night and into Friday morning. 
Dame studt:nts, and 12.7 percent of Asked about the decrease in al­national students were heavy coholism since this council formed, drinkers. This study prompted the Jackowski said "no one knows the administration to form a committee the causes of the disease," but there of faculty and administration mem­has been a "decrease in problems bers to study creating an atmo­relative to abusive drinking." sphere where people could drink Jackowski says that the reason for responsibly. This included ending abusive drinking as of 1979 was that the tradition of a 'champagne break­drinking was "socially acceptable, fast' at the Sophomore Parents it's part of family life, and culturally weekend. it's the drug ofchoice." Another re.a­
sun for alcohol abuse is that in upper-middle-class society, it is "okay to do it." 
Jackowski admits "drinking pat· terns are different among men and women." However, "based on our experience we will see a de· emphasis of alcohol" at social func­tions at Notre Dame once anger over the new alcohol policy is diffused. 



Brown students consider cyanide 


as alternative to nuclear survival 
By VIC SCIULLI 
Senior StaffReporter 
Suicide could become an al­ternative for the survivors of a nuclear war says jason Saltzman, a Brown University sophomore who is attempting to get cyanide stocked in the Rhode Island school's health center. 
Saltzman is one of the originators of a referendum that would allow cyanide to he made available for students to <.·ommit suicide in the event of a nuclear holocaust. Seven hundrt"d stu­dents signed a petition that will allow the referendum to he in­cluded on the the ballot for stu· dent council elections next week. The upcoming vote has at· tractcd national media attention. 
Saltzman said he got the idea for the referendum from the movie "On the Beach," the story of a group of people surviving in Australia after the rest of the world perishes in a nuclear war. 
Saltzman said he became more 
interested in the possible after­
math of a nuclear holocaust two 
years ago when he tried to get the 
university's . administration to 
declare the SO fallout shelters on 
campus i.Jseless. 
A student approached him 
about the idea of having suicide 
pills made available on campus in 
the event of a nuclear war. 
Saltzman said that he thought the 
idea was a good one but did not 
get much response from anyone 
else. 
After a one year leave from the university, he thought about the idea again and decided to start a petition to have the Student Health Center stock the pills. Five hundred forty signatures, 10 percent ofthe university's under­graduates, were needed to place the referendum on the ballot. 
Saltzman said that he does not agree with those who think suicide is an insensitive way to deal with the issue. "Nuclear war would not only destroy civiliza­tion hut also our value system · our moral matrix," he said. "In this world, suicide would be con­sidered a horrible thing. In the world after a nuclear holocaust, it could be an alternative." 
Saltzman also disagrees with the idea that suicide is a fatalistic alternative to attempting to survive after a· nuclear blast. "Life would be over because society is gone. It's scary to think that we could not want to survive," he said. 
Saltzman stressed the impor­tance of educating students on the seriousness of nuclear war. 
"People get distraught at the mention of the word 'suicide' but don't get as distraught about nu­clear war, " Saltzman said. "Both are equally distressing and we're tring to get people to equate the two." 
see CYANIDE, page 3 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------... 


The Observer Friday, October 5, 1984 -page 2 

Of Interest 
Three graduate Students at Notre Dame have been awarded scholarship grants from the American Association of University Women for advanced study, research and projects for 1984-8S. (The awards are part ofa million dollar allocation honoring 133 American and international women.) Notre Dame honorees are Karlene A. Hoo and Judith E. Sanderson both of Mishawaka, and Catherine C. Lesur, Eau Claire, Wise. Hoo is majoring in chemical engineering, Leser in civil engineering, and Sanderson in Hebrew Bible/Judaica Studies. -The Obseroer 
Penn State frats beerless?Beermaynolongerbe a major part of fraternity activities at Penn State University. A deci· sion by local distributors to stop leasing kegs and other party equip­ment to fraternities and sororities could prompt a majer change in the Greek system. The distributors are reportedly limiting their own legal liability by requiring individual fraternity members to sign and pay for alcohol purchases. The Interfraternity Council is studying alternatives, to include eliminating serving beer at fraternity events. 
· The Observer 
How many pancakes can you eat?AII stu­dents and families are invited by the residents of Augusta Hall to a pancake breakfast beginning tomorrow morning at I 0. The breakfast will be in the lobby ofthe hall. For II, guests can eat all the pancakes 
'and drink all the orange juice they want. Proceeds will go to future pancake breakfasts, which will be a regular event before all home football games. · The Observer 
The Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Theatre opens its 1984-1985 season tonight with a production of Harold Pinter's The Hothouse. Withheld by the author for twenty years, this is Pinter's look at life in an institution. The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre performers will be presenting the play both this weekend and next. All seats are reserved. · The Observer 
A dunking boothwill kickoff Dillon Hall's United Way Fund Drive today in front of Dillon from I to 7 p.m. and tomorrow from 10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Today's featured "dunkees" include Mike Golic and Mike Kelley at 2, Digger Phelps and members of the basketball team at 4, Father Mark Poorman, Dillon Hall rector and member of the Alcohol Committee, at 5, and Gary "The Troll" W eil at 6. Many other campus celebrities will be dunked throughout the weekend. Please come out and support The United Way. · The 
Obseroer 

\Vhat could be the largest marching band in the nation will be assembled at the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow evening for the nationally televised football game with Miami University. More than 310 former members of the band are returning to the campus for a reunion weekend and will join the 230 current members in pregame and halftime performances. Both groups will march to the stadium at 6 for the 6:30 pregame concert. There will be no pregame concert at the Administration Building. The estimated 530 to 550 band members will join in playing "America the Beautiful" and our national anthem during flag-raising ceremonies before the game. The halftime ceremonies will include the "1812 Overture," a stu­dent favorite, and several Notre Dame songs. ·The Observer 
Father Gordon Wilcox, C.S.C. died yesterday of a cerebral hemorrhage in Saint Joseph's hospital. Father Wilcox, 56, was a member ofthe staffat Moreau Seminary, but otherwise had no connection with the University. He was formerly a member ofthe faculty of the University ofPortland.-The Observer 

Weather 
Cloudy and cool today with highs remaining in the upper 60s. lows Friday night "'ill be in the 50s, with a 50 percent chance ofrain. Saturday's high will be in the up­per 60s, with a continued chance of rain. -AP 


The Obser:ver-
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observeris published by the student.~ of the Univenity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( 120 per se­mester) by writin~ The Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obsener is a member of The Associated Press. All repr«xluction ri~t.~ are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor......................... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ........... Maureen Murphy Layout Staff. .......................... Elena Hidalgo Matthew Gracianelte Mike Sweeney Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck Dave Grote News Editor ............................Amy Stephan Copy Editor.................................... uz Miller Sports Copy Editor.................... .]eff Blumb Sports Special Layout.......... Chris Bowler Viewpoint Layout................ )ohn Mennell Features Copy Editor............... Cat Francis Features Layout... .............. Kevin Williams Phil Wolf ND Day Edttor...................... Aimee Storrin SMC Day Edttor ........................ Shirley Ore Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix Pbotograpber . ....................... Vito Guarino Typist ............... __ ...................... Kim Tyshen 



A fairy-tale show makes a not so fairy-tale profit 
In an explosion of light, sound, lasers and smoke, the kiddie show begins. Creatures who resemble Big Bird's friend from Sesame Street, Mr. Snuflle-Upugus, land on stage and dance around in a technopop version of E.xcaliber. More lasers, more smoke and one or two sundry detonations later, a sword is pulled from a stone by a blinded silhouette who later turns out to be the one, the only, Mr. No Drugs At My Show--Michael Jack­son. 
It's the first concert of the Jacksons' Victory Tour at Kansas City's Arrowhead Stadium, and preteenage kids of all shades are dancing with their parents. White gloves bob up and down in agreement as Michael and his five brothers perform with 32 tons of sound-and­light equipment, and belt out a total of 16 songs--none of which is on the new but very mediocre album, 
Victory. 
It's a 90-minute show that costs S30. 

No doubt about it, these guys are gifted entertainers, but the greed and arrogance that has undermined the Jacksons' tour leave a bad taste in the mouths of the more than 3 S million people who bought Jackson's al­bum, Thriller. 
"What good does a drug­free, liquor-free, 1-brake-for-animals image do when the overriding message is, 'Give me your piggy bank'?" wrote national columnists Glen and Shearer. 

The charges against Mi· chad's Disneyland tour take aim primarily at a handful of Jackson promoters who realized that the fairy-tale show could make lots and lots of not so fairy-tale dollars. Prices for the concert were outrageously set at S30 by promoter Don King, one-time Muhammad Ali impresario. But before the first concert, King was dumped for Chuck Sullivan, a promoter from the football industry who had an even better idea for collecting money. 
Sullivan announced that control ofticket sales would be taken away from the local arenas and given to Sul­livan's office in New York. Prospective ticket buyers had to send in a $120 money order (for four tickets) to become eligible for a ticket lottery. People not selected at random wouldn't get their money back for several weeks. 
Sullivan also proposed that newspapers run, as a "public service," coupons which would be mailed with the money order in a standard No. I 0 envelope to tour headquarters. Jackson promoters maintained that this was the only way to guarantee fairness in ticket distribu­tion. 
/ 
'·· 
• 
. 

Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Frid 

Officials at 23,000-seat Rupp Arena in lexington, Ky., weren't amused. On May 21, Michael's mother, Kat· herine, announced that the first concert would definitely be at Rupp Arena. The concert looked likely until Sullivan's lottery plan became a requirement in the concert contract. 
In no uncertain terms, arena president Tom Minter said that he didn't care if it was the incredible Michael jackson or the Southern Division Tractor Pull; no one except arena officials would handle ticket distribution. 
Other big-name arenas, including New Orlean's Su­perdome, Seattle's Kingdome, the los Angeles Forum and the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium in Washington, D.C., fol­lowed suit. It looked for one shakey week this June that the jacksons' tour might not go anywhere. 
Sullivan called some ofhis contacts from football and quickly signed concerts in three football stadiums: Ar­rowhead Stadium, Texas Stadium and the Gator Bowl. 
In the meantime, a little girl named LadonnaJones of UIC TORY Dallas wrote a letter to Mi-· 
chael asking, "How could you, of all people, be so selfish?" The note bothered Jackson, and the day before the first concert, he an­nounced that he had "asked the promoter to end the mail-order system." And, he added, his share ofthe tour profits would go to charity. 
The curious announcement showed that Michael himself is probably not behind the greed and arrogance of the tour, but it also pointed out that as the main man of the show, his orders could have ruled all along. Jack­sons' promoters have soured the image ofthe show, and all the lasers, light and smoke in the world can't change the fact that this once happy tour ain't no ordinary fairy tale. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

Hey, let's be careful out there. 
Public service announcement by the Governor's Task Force to Reduce 

•. 

The Observer 
Friday, October 5, 1984-page 3 
. 

SMC celebrates 140th anniversary In new way 
By SHANNON OAKES 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's will celebrate its 

140th anniversary next week in a 
different way than it celebrated its 
I 39th. 
"The event has been poorly atten· 

ded in previous years and the 
changes were made in hopes of 
drawing more students," said Foun­
der's Day Chairman Mary Beth 
Lavezzorio. 
A 4:45 Mass in Regina Hall will open the Founder's Day activities on Monday, Oct. 8. Each dorm will hold a birthday celebration at 11 that night. 
Tuesday's activities include an alumnae reception, flower sales, and a display in the Haggar College Cen­ter called "A Walk Through Time." The display will feature yearbooks, other school publications, and styles of dress worn at Saint Mary's in the past. 
The film "Excel," which tells the s10ry of the founding and history of Saint Mary's, will be shown in Hag­gar at 7 that evening. This is a new film being used by the public rela­tions department at Saint Mary's. 
A fashion review is also scheduled for Tuesday night. The theme is Saint Mary's fashions through the years. 
Father Edward Sorin and Mother Angela Gillespie co-founded Saint Mary's in 1844 in Bertrand, Mic­higan. It moved to its present loca­tion in 1855. 
Past Founders' Day celebrations 
By DREW GREELEY 
News Staff 

The Alcohol Education Council, the Student Government, and the Division of Student Affairs sponsored Alcohol Awareness Week at Saint Mary's this week. 
The program is a nationwide ef. fort to reduce alcohol abuse on col­lege campuses. Its goals are to educate people on recognizing 
were quite different from today's. drinking problems in themselves. 

Student Players present... Sweeney Todd 
a musical thriller 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, Nov. 1,2,3,4 
Tickets on sale NOW at: 
SAB Record Store $4°0 presale Century Center $5°0 at door O'Laughlin Aud. Box Office 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ON THE CAMPUS 
October 8, Presentation and Reception October 9, 10, and 11, Interviews 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS RECRUITERS will be on campus in the Notre Dame Room of the Morris Inn on October 8, from 7-9_p.m. 
We are recruiting for Semi Conductor Sales, Marketing, Engineering, Design, and Manufac­turing. Plus Computer Programmers -Hardware and Software Design. Degree Requirements are EE, ME, CHEM E, COMPUTER E, COMPUTER 
'­

SCIENCE, BS and MS and MBA with TECHNICAL UNDERGRAD. 
Come to the reception from 7 -9 p.m. Monday night to get aquainted, ask questions, and discuss general information. 
GO IRISH! 
While Father Sorin was still alive,  
High Masses, dances and speeches in  
French and German were given to  
honor him. At one time, classes were  
cancelled on Founder's Day.  
The day was traditionally held on  
or near the feast of St. Edward, Oct.  
13. St. Edward is the patron saint of  
Father Edward Sorin.  
Across the country Saint Mary's  
alumnae clubs will hold fashion  
shows or luncheons to celebrate the  
event.  
The works ofSister Madeleva will  
be on display in the archives of the  
Cushwa-Leighton library to com­ 
memorate the 20th anniversary of  
her death.  
Lavezzorio said Founder's Day  
will kick off the Octoberfest at Saint Mary's.  The Observer/Vic GuarinoBeggars can't be choosers  
Kim Koblbaus is serving a 'beggar' at last night's day ofSaintFrancis ofAssisi, which also includeda  
Others who helped organize the  Beggars'Banquet at the Center for Social Concerns. Mass and a film biography ofSaintFrancis.  
day include Joanie Mekenna, Usa  The dinner was part of a celebration of the feast  
DiNero, Anne Karnatz, Suzi Avitabile  
and Karen O'Connor.  




Alcohol Awareness Week ends today at SMC 
and others, inform those with drink· ing problems where to find help, in· crease awareness of penalties for intoxicated driving and give the his­tory of alcohol at Saint Mary's in­cluding the current alcohol policy. 
Today a panel of alcoholics will discuss their experiences with al­coholism. The panels will meet at 1:15, 2:20, 3:25, and 4:30p.m. at Car­rol Hall, Saint Mary's College. All are welcome. 
Yesterday a panel discussion fol­lowed the showing of several films on alcoholism. Three speakers also discussed this issue last night. Sister Karol Jackowski, founder of the Al­cohol Education Council, spoke on "Student Drinking at Saint Mary's College." Mary O'Donnell, director of student activities, discussed "Alcohol and Student Activities." And Mark Banenek, professor of chemistry and physics, Molly Sul­livan, alcohol council consultant, and Marie VonFeldt, resident ad­visor, gave a presentation titled "As We See It," an audience involved dis­cussion of "drinking and socializing in the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Community." 
Monday's theme was "Drinking and Driving." Several South Bend Police Department members, Bar­bara Noser, executive director of the Alcoholism Council ofSt.Joseph County, and Tom Kellogg, a repre­sentative of Mothers Against Drunk Driving, gave talk.'i Monday. 
Tuesday's topic was the effect of 
FRANCESCO'S etamlglla 
Italian Restaurant 
Order 1 Large Pizza Get a pitcher ofpop free 
10% OFF DINNERS for NO AND SMC students 
EXPIRES OCTOBER 31, 1984 

1636 N.lronwood Dr. 277.6155 
..--8'JitbMi~s.--. 




GET WILD 
AT HOME ,• 
TONIGHT 
$l
00 0FF 
WITH PURCHASE OF ONE LARGE 
WilD PIZZA 
TOPPINGS Ham, Mushrooms, Fresh Onions, Pepperoni, Italian Sausage, Black Olives, and Green Pepper 
LOCATION: Lower level of Saga HOURS: Sun· Thurs. 5 p.m.· 12 a.m. PHONE: 284-2011 
alcoholism on an alcoholic's friends and family. Many recovering al­coholics gave panel discussions on the topic, and one recovering al­coholic, the father of a Saint Mary's student, told about his alcoholic problem and how it affected his fam­
ily.  
The  movie  "Rebel  without  a  
Cause"  was  shown  Wednesday  
night.  

A survey done by Jackowski in 1979 showed "there are about four times more heavy drinkers at Saint Mary's than among college women nationally." The percentage ofheavy drinkers at Saint Mary's is 1 5 percent while the national average for col­lege women is four percent. 
Organizers ofthe awareness week say it has been a success. 

Cyanide 
continuedfrom page 1 
Reaction to the referendum by the students has been "mixed" ac­cording to Beth Grossman, student body president. "The stu­dent body has reservations about it, but it's all being taken fairly seriously." she said. 
Grossman said that the student government has not taken an official position on the referendum and is waiting for the results ofnext week's election. 
Dr. Sumner Hoffman, director of the Student Health Center, said he thought the petition "somewhat frivolous" at first and could not believe it. After thinking about the proposal for a while, however, Hof­fman said that he believes there is a reason to be concerned. "We at Brown should be taking a hard look at educating students about how to prevent it (nuclear war) from ever happening." 
Sumner also said, however, that 
he thinks the students have "an un­
realistic, no win attitude" which he 
believes is "unrealistic. In history, 
Civilizations have been nearly 
destroyed but were rebuilt by sur­
vivors, " he said. 
He added, however, that the "symbolism of the petition has been achieved. Students want answers and want to talk about it. We have scheduled forums." 
Sumner said that he "believes it is highly unlikely" the university's in­corporators would allow the health center to stock cyanide even if the referendum is passed. 
Saltzman said he believes the peti­tion has been "very successful. beyond my wildest dreams." 

The Observer Friday, October 5, 1984-page 4 
( 
( 
r 
r 
r 
' 
r 
r 
f 


Prof lectures high schools by telephone 
By MIKE MILLEN 
StaffReporter 
Yesterday's lecture given to a group of Kansas high school stu· dents by Notre Dame's Robert Schuler was uncommon. However, it was not the physics lecture itself which made the class "unique in the country," but the fact that it was conducted by telephone, with Schuler never leaving the campus. 
Described as a "valuable program for high school students interested in advanced modern techniques in science," the class consisted of two parts. Last week, the 80 students scattered throughout 25 Kansas high schools were given a one hour lecture on radiation chemical studies. This week, the participants asked questions of Schuler during the 1 1/2 hour session. 
It's designed to "get the very best scientists to participate without having to travel," said John Eck of the Kansas State University physics department. The honors seminar se­ries, which Kansas State is sponsor­ing for seven different topics, is designed to give top students infor­mation on different areas ofscience. 
In his lecture, Schuler described the facilities and experiments using radiation methods to study chemical reactions in the Radiation Labora­tory. He said Notre Dame was selec­ted to participate because of its internationally known radiation center. 
After each class, students are re­quired to submit papers to Eck. Those who satisfy the requirements will be awarded two class credits at their high school. 
Schuler said "Kansas State has had this program for the last ten years," and he thinks the initiative to ex­pand it must be taken by universities around the country. Although he doubted the effectiveness for using the telephone to conduct a lecture on college level, Schuler seemed op­tomistic about the current high school program, saying "hopefully, it will be effective." 
SMC installs new lights on N. Road 
By KELLY O'NEIL 
News Staff 
lights are being installed on Saint Mary's North Road as part of a plan to relocate the security building closer to the College's main gate. This change will cause 
heavier  traffic  on  North  Road,  
thereby  increasing  its  lighting  
needs.  

The lights will cost approxi­mately S 1 0,000 to install, and, ac­cording to security, it is a convent project. The cost of in­stallation is greatly reduced be­cause the lights are not brand new, but were originally in the LeMans' parking lot. 
Eight lights were replaced in the parking lot, but only seven of these will be installed on North Road. The eighth light is reserved as a spare. 
Installation began, according to Dick Kenny,"approximately last Thursday" and will be "finished and functioning by the end of next week." The lights are high pressure sodium lights as are the new lights in the LeMans parking lot. 
Meg McGinity, a freshman at Saint Mary's, said "I think that the lights will promote an atmo­sphere ofsafety." 
THE CLASS OF 1985 PRESENTS: 
2 Shenanigans Concerts! 
Saturday, October 6 12 noon and 2:00p.m. Memorial Library Auditorium $1 donation at the door ALL ARE WELCOME! SINGING AND DANCING EXTRAVAGANZA 
NOTRE DAME T-SHIRT SHOP NOWOPENII 
Offering a complete line of sportswear and colored inks. Servicing your group needs. 
HOURS: Monday. Wednesday~ 3:15 • 5 p.aa. Tuesdays, Thursday, Friday 1 • 3 p.aa. 
FOUND: in the SE corner of LaFortune Basement 
CONTACT: Robert Cox for more info-239-5157 
Variety of styles and colors at lo"' prices Try it on for size! 


Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Project Manager 
• 
Work with Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editor on long-term projects for the newspaper. 

• 
Salaried position. 

• 
Observer experience is required. 

• 
For more information and a specific job de­scription, see Bob Vonderheide at ThA Observer office. 


The Gbserver 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Ayres introduces Ferrante by Farah 
This is a collection made for you. Clothing for your business life. Clothing for your night life. Jazz it up or take a more conservative approach. We show: double-breasted wool-blend jacket in charcoal-colored tweed from our collection of Ferrante jackets, 
75.00 to 89.00. Gabardine slacks with a new pleat treatment from our collection including black, grey, navy, brown or tan, 28.00. Young Men's, Scottsdale Mall and University Park 

Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park today, 10:00 to 9:00. 
The Observer Friday, October 5, 1984 -page 5 
Need LSU Tix Call collect eves. 
504·291·0642 
Ralph A. Casperson Books 
THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS ·WE BUY USED BOOKS· 
HOURS: 
Wed., Sat. A Sun. 9a.m. • 7 p.m. or by appointment 
tSeS NM-..clla-•IW, N.._ 683-2888 


WANTED: 
Student Players producerI director 
for Spring Production Aprill8, 19,20 

Applications available: 2nd floor Lafortune Application deadline: Oct. 12 
• 
Saint Mary's kicks off $25 million 'EX~EL' fund-raising campaign 
By BETif WHELPLEY Duggan, who spoke in the of 1986." News Staff Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's, The campaign will benefit the en­said "EXCEL is the first campaign of dowment funds for faculty develop­
Saint Mary's President John Dug­this magnitude in Saint Mary's his­ment, endowed chairs and gan announced the public phase ofa tory. Although it is an ambitious scholarships, the Annual Fund, and S25 million fund-raising campaign goal, I am pleased to say that we have the re-development of the S6.5 mil­called "EXCEL: The Fund for Saint in hand Sl 5 million in advance gifts lion science facility scheduled to Mary's College," in a press confer­and pledges. We expect to success­begin in the spring of 1985. ence yesterday. fully complete EXCEL in the spring The Sisters of the Holy Cross have 
pledged more than S1.6 million to the campaign. Most of these dona­tions came out oftheir salaries. 

Also present at the conference was Melissa Underman Noyes, presi-
NDI SMC SENIOR CLASS Pre-RaUy Happ'n Hour 
Friday, October 5 4:30 -7:00p.m. Keenan Hall Party Room 
TICKETS: $2°0 I couple $2°0 /stag 



Career opportunities at Mellon. 




The officers of Mellon Bank Corporation invite you to a corporate reception. 
Monday, October 8, 1984 Alumni Room, Morris Inn 
7:00 p.m. tc 9:00 p.m. 
An equal opportunity employer, M/F 

Mellon Bank 
John Duggan 
dent of the National Alumnae Asso­ciation Board, who said she will ask the more than 14,000 alumnae for contributions. 
Mary Morris Leighton, national chairman of EXCEL, expressed her enthusiasm for the College's ad­vancement. "Each time I visit the campus I am more impressed with the outstanding students, faculty, and administration," she said. 
Duggan said local residents have contributed S4 to SS million of the money collected thus far. "We've been very well supported by the local community," he said. 
Focus 
on 
Anlerlca's 
Future 

TI11S SPACE CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBliSHER 


TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
$ $$ for YoIll' Club 
Need funds for your club 
or activity? Raise $100 or 
$10,000 with NESTLE FUND 
RAISING • South Bend area man ager will help you with your fund raising from start to finish. Call 291-3720 NOW for your free samplesl 
• 
-I 






~i~~~_()__i_ll__t__________________Fr-ida~y,_oc-tob-er-5,_19-84--~p~ag-e6 
7 1 
( 
7 
.' 
,' 
( l l 
1 
r, ( 


HI I'l1 STUI:l'l':t tJ~ 50C.T."L PRO~LtM s. 
) 
HO-..J "~ T~E. NEw ALCoHoL PoLI(Y 1\FFECTE t) YouR. .socr~L LTfE 7• 
Gipper is winning one for the defenseless 
At first I thought it would not be necessary to write any type of article in regard to Presi­dent Reagan's stance on abortion. It is my per­ception that the N.D. campus in general realizes that the unborn child should have all the rights guaranteed in the Constitution to all other individuals, most importantly, the right 
Bill Healy 
guest column 
to life. We have witnessed a great deal of en­thusiasm for this view prior to and since Governor Cuomo's now famous speech here at Notre Dame. Due to the pro-life support on campus, and the recognition that Ronald Reagan "is one of the most committed, most outspoken pro-life presidents in history," I felt it was not necessary to overkill the subject. 
That was before Gary Wills' article ap­peared in The Obseroer on Sept. 28. Wills at­tempted to convince the readers that Reagan had made only a half-hearted attempt in his fight against abortion. This is simply not true, but rather than harping on Wills fallacies, I would like to point out the successes Reagan hru; made in protecting the lives of the unborn, and the possibilties for the future if he is given the opportunity to continue his fight against the injustices of abortion. 
Reagan's personal views on abortion have been explicity outlined in countless public forums. In fact, on the lOth anniversary ofSu­preme Court decision Roe vs. Wade, he pub­lished an article detailing his views ("Abortion and the Conscience of the Na­tion.") The President is against abortion in all cases except in the rare, but very real, circum­stances in which the mother's life would be endangered by carrying the pregnancy to term. Yes, this means he is against abortion in the case of incest and rape. His fundamental belief is that the unborn child, the human being, is guaranteed his right to life, and to claim special circumstances (i.e. "the mother does not want the child") does not change the basic fact that the child has these rights. In those unique and rare cases of pregnancy by rape or incest Reagan believes that we must be sensitive to the mothers difficult situation, but we must not destroy life in an attempt to rectify the already tragic situation. 
Reagan is very serious about his views on abortion and his importance to the Pro-Life movement is often understated. He consis­tently reminds people of his view, but to the dismay of many he is not widely quoted on this issue. In a presidential proclamation (Jan. 22, 1984) he publicly stated: "Since 1973, more than I 5 million unborn children have died in legalized abortions ... a tragedy of stunning dimensions that s1ands in sad con­trast to our belief that each life is sacred. lnese chidren .-.. will never laugh, never· sing, never experience the joy of human love; nor will they strive to heal sick, or feed the poor, or make peace among nations. Abortion has denied them the first and most basic ofhuman rights, and we are infinitely poorer for their loss." 
Reagan has taken many steps toward the ul­timate goal of outlawing this merciless na­tional disaster. First he supported the Hyde Amendment, the Smith/Denton Amendment and various other forms of legislation which prohibit the federal funding of abortion (except to save the life of the mother). In ad­dition, Reagan had funds cut off funds to or· ganizations "which preform or actively promote abortion in Foreign Countries." (For example the International Planned Paren­thood Federation, which promotes abortion · as "family planning" -no longer will receive S I 1 million Federal dollars it used to get.) 
In addition Reagan contacted many un­decided Senators when the Hatch/Eagleton constitutional amendment (which would overturn Supreme Court decisions) was up for debate. He did the same when Senator Helms was supporting legislation which would urge the Supreme Court to reexamine its decisions. Both times unfortunately the President lost his battle, but his did not prtvent him from succeeding in other ways. 
It was in 1983 when the Supreme Court reviewed (and reaffirmed) "Roe vs. Wade". This unfortunate decision was challenged strongly by Reagan's appointee to the Su­preme Court, Sandra Day O'Connor. During a second term there is the distinct possibility that Reagan will have the opportunity to ap· point several Supreme Court Justices. He has publicly stated and it is soundly reverberated in the Republican Party Platform that "we reaffirm our support for the appointment of judges ,at all levels of the judiciary who respect traditional family values and the sanctity of innocent human life." This will be Reagan's greatest opportunity to come to the aide ofthe unborn. 
Concurrent with his strong beliefs about abortion President Reagan has come out strongly against denying regular • medical treatment to those chidren who are born severely handicapped. He issued an executive order which prohibited hospitals receiving federal funds from letting those children die. Discrimination is prohibited by law and detailed regulations were issued to protect these children's rights. The "Baby Doe" children, like the unborn children, need their rights protected in a more signficant way asccording to President Reagan. This is why he is supporting the Human Life Amendment to the Con.'ititution. Reagan believes that it must be spelled out in the law ofthe land that innocent children must be protected. He has made significant steps in that direction, and he will continue to given a second term. 
Bill Healy is a junior in th£ College ofArts and Letters at Notre Dame. 
A breath of fresh air 
The quadrennial sparring over debates is underway once again. Walter Mondale wants six, Ronald Reagan has so far agreed to one; topics, formats, and schedules are under negotiation. The suggestion of a debate be­tween Geraldine Ferraro and Geor~e Bush pn. 
C. Maxell Stanley 
.__l!Uest rnlnm n 
livens what otherwise promises to be a repetition of the rather drab exchanges of prior campaigns. 
As in the past, this year's debates will likely include much rhetoric about the wisdom, ex­perience, and competence of the two party leaders to deal effectively with near-term eco­nomic factors such as jobs, interest rates, taxes, inflation, and budget deficits. Vigorous charges and countercharges will be made about how serious our ecopomic problems are and about which party is most responsible. Neither candidate will dare suggest that the solution of these problens requires a funda­mental reappraisal ofthe United States' role in an increasingly interdependent global eco­nomy. 
Competitive exhortations will be heard about toughness towards the Soviet Union. While there are certainly significant differ­ences between the candidates concerning se­curity issues, both will vow to maintain a strong defense but to expedite arms control. Neither will discuss the need to reduce our unduly heavy reliance on the military element ofsecurity. Otller critical foreign policy issues will be carefully skirted and comments will be limited to general discussion of the nature of the problems and vague suggestions on how they might be resolved. All of this will be topped with emotional appeals to patriotism cast in the context ofthe United States against, not with, the rest ofthe world. 
Nor can we hope for much from the debate questioners. The questions posed to Reagan, Mondale, Bush, and Ferraro by media­oriented panelists will concentrate on the im­mediate and the near term. So, too will the debaters' answers. This is a natural conse­quence of the short-term emphasis of the United States' political system. Candidates 
concentrate on what may happen during the 
next four years. 
Wouldn't it be refreshing and illuminating if 
part of the debate were structured to compel 
we presidential candidates to look to the 
future? How would they adapt U.S. plicy to 
deal with the growing interdependence ofthe 
world? What should be done to regain an ac­
ceptable balance ofpayments, to make U.S. in­
dustry more competitive without resorting to 
practices damaging to the global economy? In 
the long term, how would they cope with 
structural unemployment, budget deficits, 
and other domestic economic issues stem­
ming from the evolution of the world's eco· 
nomy? 
What should be the role ofthe United States 
in the quest for secure peace with freedom 
and justice? What have the candidates learned 
about military intervention in Vietnam, 
Lebanon, Nicaragua, Grenada, and El Sal­
vador? How would they check and reverse the 
insane arms race? What approach would they 
use to lessen tensions between the United 
States and the Soviet Union and to begin to 
build a long-term, more stable relationship 
with our primary adversary? How would they 
utilize the United Nations and other interna­
tional organizations? 
An exchange of outlooks on such is~ues would help develop the long-range focus so lacking in the campaign rhetoric and in the deliberations of the administration and Congress. It would be educational for both candidates and voters and would give all ofus a better understanding of the United States' role in today's world. Armed with that, voters would be better able to choose candidates. 
The quest for the go;Us we seek · prosperity at home and a secure peace with freedom and justice in the world · will remain futile as long as one administration after another concen­trates on the confrontations of the day. More attention to the long view would help chart the course to progress. It would be a breath of fresh air. 
C. Maxwell Stanley, professional engineer, business executive, author, and president and founder of the Stanley Foundation, which has workedfor more than 25 years to further study, research and education in the field ofinternational policy, died ofa heart attack on September 20, 1984. This was his last editorial contribution. 

An extinquished faith 
"Laws cannot rekindle an extinguished faith." The words are Alexis de Tocqueville's. They come to mind often in the current talk about religion and politics. Not that I think re­ligious faith has been extinguished · far from that. But I do not agree with those who see a great resurgence, a new vitality, in American 
Garry Wills 
outrider 
religion. Its vitality is suprisingly constant, as Seymour Martin Upset has noticed, through­out our history. 
This religious energy finds various chan­nels. In the past, it was put at the service of causes as different as nativism and abolition, Prohibition and city machine reform. 
At the time when Tocqueville travelled America, in the 1830's, we had a socially es­tablished religion, though not a politically es­tablished one. We were a Christian nation. There would have been no protest, then, at using the Lord's Prayer in schools, or nativity scenes on public property. The rights of non­Christian minorities were not so much denied as not even brought into view. Even some Christians were discriminated agaiast · e.g., Catholics. 
In general, that has been the pattern of our social establishment, though with diminishing force down through the years. It was unneces­sary to pass censorship laws in many places because the religious leaders could inhibit the distribution of material offensive to them by social pressures on their congregations. 
Tocqueville thought of religion as operat­ing primarily on women: Morals were their sphere. But because they controlled the raising and education of children, religion has already done its work in these pre-political stages. It did not have to proceed to overt legislation -the laity, formed by their educa­
tion, could be trusted to do that when it was 
called for. 
To some, this may seem a distinction with­
out a difference. Ifreligion has already shaped 
the minds ofpeople, what is to be gained from 
a kind of sudden and artificial restraint in the 
area ofovert electioneering? 
But electoral politics in America has its own 
mystique, for a very good reason. Foreigners 
could not understand the fuss Americans 
made over the break-in at a rival party's 
headquarters in 1972, and the efforts of the 
White House to cover up its involvement in 
this "third-rate burglary attempt." It seemed a 
petty crime in itself· and was. 
Americans settle one ofthe touchiest points 
of any political regime · succession · by the 
electoral process. It decides legitimacy 1n of· 
fice. That is why it must emphasize procedural 
niceties, the observance of proper forms. Un­
less the process has not been tampered with, 
we do not have a legitimate officer. 
Our electoral process, as Madison pointed 
our in Federalist No. 1 0, resembles an arbitra­
tion on points of equity. It must retire, some­
what, from the ordinary give-and-take of 
social argument and pressure, a thing sym­
bolized by the secrecy of balloting and the 
cordoning-off ofcampaigners from the imme­
diate vicinity of the voter. 
On certain issues -many of them sexual · one form of American religion has lost its old pre-political dominance. If it had not, we would not have a divorced man in the White House. Nudity in films is an everyday occur­rence, even in the White House. Even the first lady says she might favor abortion in cases of rape. Male-female dormitories are the norm, even on some religious campuses. The tooth· paste, as it were, is 0ut of the tube. 
Religion has lost its pre-political dominance over many of these topics. So a few preachers are attempting to remedy the matter by direct action in elections. But "laws cannot rekindle an extinguished faith." 
(C) 1984, UNWERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
The Observer Friday, October 5, 1984 -page 7 
Meeting people in an open-minded manner 
--, 
One of the strange things about the on­need of the United States to act with integrity Let's be honest about this; ifthese women had support. We need attitudes that are loving and going abortion-politics discussion, it seems to outside borders, extend that not been radical none of us women would he
its cannot affirmative. This is one reason why I am un­me, is that the support for the anti-abortion 
responsibillity to the unborn. here today at Notre Dame. And we would not easy about the pro-life movement being tied movement is coming from the wrong side. Why is this? My own answer to this problem be here ifwe did not think that women have as to a political machine that has claimed to have One would think that this issue would he the was put into words for me from somewhere I much of a right to intellectual, economic and brought this country out of the decadence 
hardly expected it. I quote Representative social growth (yes, even upward mobility). So back to its former moral state. We do not need 
Hyde: "... in today's Democratic Party to be going back is out of the question. this kind ofself-righteous nonsense. We have 
Adele Megann upwardly mobile is to be very liberal, and to This leaves us only one place to go · for­to accept the fact that many people have 
be very liberal is to be very feminist, and to be ward. We should not reject feminism, but go adopted ways of life that Christians feel are 
a feminist is to befor abortion" (The Observer, beyond it. The feminists have brought women not best way to express one's relationship to
guest column September 25, 1984). Obviously, liberal good news; our bodies are not property. We God and to each other. We have to realize that 
feminist women have made abortion a part of are human being who should he tre!lted as these people see things from a different per­
their platform, and liberal men like to con­such. We need to tell them what their own spective than we do. Condemning them will 
ultimate civil rights cause. After all, who could sider themselves feminist too, in their own good news means. A woman's body is not get us nowhere. Some of them have pretty he more helpless than the fetus in the womb, way. If women claim that they are owed cer­anyone's possession, not even her own. It is good vision, and can see through us in a min­who in more need of protection? Should not tain rights, the men are not about to disagree. herself, fully alive. ute. The first Crusades that Christian men led therefore, the side of the political spectrum So they support abortion too. The rights that pertain to her are not those were not very successful, and it is up to Chris­
which hao; a particular concern for civil rights, Please do not think I believe it is wrong to of a man with regard to a field, hut those that tian women to tell them that a moral crusade 
at least in its rhetoric, he the one most active be a feminist or liberal (or upwardly-mobile, pertain to all members of the human commu­against abortion will get no further. 
in trying to stop abortion? for that matter). These things are good in nity, in relation to one another. There are All of this may seem somewhat confusing, 
,
As we all know, this is not the case. Those themselves. many ramifications of this good news. It but I thought that my confusion would be bet· politicians who are the favorites ofthe pro-life The problem lies in the last clause -"to be a means not only that she does not have to take ter than all the silence I have found in the ~ 
I 
organization also get along very well with feminist is to be for abortion." This is the on the promiscuity that the male half of the recent discussion about this angle ofthe abor­those who think welfare recepients surely do clause that needs to be changed, and I am population has been infamous for, but that it tion issue. To sum up, there is one thing about not really need all that money, who cannot quickly coming to the conclusion that it must has to stop altogether. It means that she can which I am not (any longer) confused · understand why all Latin Americans are not he women who change it. tell her lover that she has lots ofgood reasons feminism and abortion do not go together. It grateful for U.S. intervention, and who are not How are they to do it? One way they will to use natural means ofcontraception, and the has become vital that they do not. And it will quite sure that the Soviet people are really never succeed is by going back to a world Pope is not one of them! It means that society have to be women who bring respect for human. before these radical feminists came along and will care enough about her to do everything human life beyond morality, and show other 
The people who could talk all day about the destroyed the moral fabric ofsociety. For one possible to make her unborn child a joy, not a women how it belongs in a way of living that responsibility ofsociety for the elderly, handi­thing, that world never existed. For another, burden. assures all human beings the dignity they capped, oppressed and jobless; and about the we do not really want to go back to it anyway! The needs here go far deeper than material deserve. 


P.O.Box Q 
I 
door? Afraid of the political awareness? Am I provided valuable information that resulted in angry because at least I know I need to learn the apprehension.
Security team effort 
Opening the door 
about the election and many people are ig­Dear Editor: Security is everyone's concern and respon­norant of this need? But how can I expect On Monday evening, October 1, the Notre sibility. All campus community members canbefore it's too late them to open the door when I don't? Maybe it Dame campus was visited by a roving group of greatly aid in the total security of the campus is unlocked and I never even tried the handle. juveniles. Because of the activities of this by becoming observant of what is going on Dear Editor: Too often I think I know what is inside the group, several calls were received at the about them and involved in the effort to The other day, as I sat with no key, outside locked room: a one-issue Republican cam­Notre Dame Security Department by con· reduce victimization. The simple locking of 
my locked door, I started to become paign and a one-issue Democratic campaign. cerned community members. rooms, offices, and vehicles could reduce our 

frustrated. I was frustrated at my roommates Isn't Reagan's only concern anti-abortion and As a result of several quick-thinking stu­thefts drastically. A quick phone call to alert us 
for locking me out, frustrated at my door for Mondale's only concern a bilateral nuclear dents that took the time and initiative to call to a possible problem situaiton or persons not 
being locked, and frustrated at the RA's for not freeze? Neither candidate is concerned about our office four juveniles were apprehended part of the campus community is a great aid. 
being around when I needed help. Never once the budget or Central America because they while in the process ofcutting bicycles from a We appreciate the outstanding cooperation 
did it occur to me that if I had brought my key are only focusing on one issue. Wrong. I only rack at Holy Cross Hall. Additionally, two we generally receive from the community. 
with me in the first place, I never would have see one issue, they stand on many. Reagan and bikes were recovered that had al"ready been Keep up the good citizen attitude ofbeing in­
been locked out. Mondale debate on television this month. By taken from other bike racks. volved and concerned for your welfare and 
So many times, when I think aboutpolitics, I watching them actually debate, maybe I can Our special thanks and recognition goes that of your neighbors and we will strive to 
meet that same locked door, and that same see what other issues they stand for. I only out to students Alan Hunt of Keenan Hall, Mi­always serve your security needs. Call on us 
frustration, but I give up trying to get in as hope I get the door open before it is too late. chael Hamlin and Frederick Burgess of Holy anytime and we will do our best to help. 
soon as I see that it is locked. Am I afraid ofthe Heidi Cerneka Cross Hall, and Paul Mahoney of the Ubrary Rex]. Rakow 
AssistantSecurity Director 
responsibility that comes with opening the LeMansHall Monitor staff. All of these people called and 
Now that you all know about my son jonat­he was still away from the dentist's office he chuckling people in a dentist's office instill and desire to go to kindergarten would even­han from this column two weeks ago let me said he had chosen to go. But now facing the fear into the uninitiated, fear which eventually tually lead him to open his mouth at the den­convey a story about him ·· or rather about consequence ofhis choice -· to concretely go might begin to feed upon itself. tist's request. (By the way and for the record: I you and me, him being a character in the and see the dentist ·· he had to make his Now, even the dentist himself and his staff believe that children may be naive but they story. jonathan had to go to see a dentist choice over again. Seeing jonathan's hesita· approached jonathan upon that presumption aren't irrational unless the society of the 
recently. Well, not quite: I gave him a choice. I tion the adults in the waiting room began to that he wasfearful when Jonathan in fact was adults makes them to become so!) 
chuckle. Why? Well, simply because their cautious as to what was going to happen. So 
stereotype ·· and yours? ·· is that children fear the dentist and his staff chattered away, A concluding observation: the dentist
Jurgen Brauer the dentist. It's just like laughing at a dog who poured a flood of words over Jonathan, couldn't believe his eyes that four-year-old 
balks at jumping through a ring of fire. You numbed him skillfully with utterances so that Jonathan had twenty perfect teeth (and he 
reasoned culture know he won't jump, and ifindeed he doesn't Jonathan would not cry or balk or run away. meantperfect). Said he, "Most two-and-a-half­
you laugh at him a 'I knew it'. But you didn't They succeeded, and I am not mistaken to year-olds I see have lots ofcavities. But a four­
know! See, jonathan had never been at a den­suppose that this is what makes an ordinary year-old with none? What bothers me is: why said, "If you want to go to kindergarten then tist's office. So how could he fear the dentist? dentist become a children's dentist. So much must it be assumed or expected that four­you'll have to see a dentist because the kinder­He couldn't possibly. Indeed, he acted not for the credit to be given. However, why must year-olds have cavities? Yes, because experi­garten people only want to have "healthy" fearful at all but rather reasonable. Let me it be assumed rather than established that ence tells us that most of the time children in the program. So the choice is proceed carefully to see what this new place, jonathan fears dentists? Why is Jonathan a four-year-olds have cavities. But why must a 
either dentist and kindergarten or neither called a dentist's office, is all about. stereotype rather than a human being? human being be approached upon that 
one. jonathan chose the dentist not knowing 
What was the poor parent (me!) to do in presumption? Being sick is one thing ·· but as­what a dentist was since he'd never seen one For the sake ofanalogy suppose you land on this situation? Reason with jonathan that the suming sickness quite another! I guess the 
before. 
Mars or what have you. Since you've never dentist expected him to be fearful and thus upshot of all this is that, while I myself ap­
So, jonathan chose to go see the dentist. been there before you will probably be in­expected that the roles be played accord­proach people with hidden, unrealized as· Upon arrival at the dentist's officejonathan sat clined (and instructed by NASA) to watch out. ingly? Perhaps the fault in this matter was sumptions about them, we should be able ·· at down in the waiting room while I went to the 
Suddenly you meet a bunch of beings up mine. I had explained toJonathan what a den­least once in a while ·· to break out of that counter to fill out some forms. Jonathan didn't there. You'll do exactly what jonathan did: tist's job was and what the dentist would want bondage and be enabled to meet people, 
want to help with that task so I left him explor­hesitate and begin to explore things. Then the to do with Jonathan. But I had not explained human beings, in an open-minded manner. ing the waiting room and the people waiting beings do something that they think is chuck­that the dentist would probably act upon the therein. Shortly after I returned the forms we 
ling ·· hut how do you know what it actually presumption of fear rather than upon the jurgen Brauer is an economics graduate were called in. Jonathan apparently hadn't yet is? Maybe the beings are preparing some sort presumption that even Jonathan is a rational student and is a regular contributing view­
made up his mind in the concrete: as long as ofattack on you. Get the point? I maintain that human being whose natural inquisitiveness point columnist. 

Feminism and abortion do not go together 
=~The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edlfor·tn·Chlef . . Bob Vond~rheide Busmess Manager . . Dave Taiclet Managmg Ed1tor ... Mark ~orscheh Controfler . Maripat Horne The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the News E:d1tor . Sarah Hamilton AdvertiSing Manager . . Anne Culligan Univers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College It does not necessanly News Ed1tor .. Dan McCullough C~rculat10n Manager. . . .. Jeff O'Neill 

J
reflect the pol1c1es of the adm.r11strdt1on of e1ther mst1tut10n The news 1s reported as Samt Mary·s Ed1tor . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager. . .... Kevin Williams 
J
accurately and as ObjeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1t0r1als represent the opm1on Sports Ed1tor Michael Sullivan of a majority of the Ed1t0r1al Board Commentar1es. letters and the jns1de Column V1ewpomt Ed1tor .. . Dave Grote ..• present the v1ews of lhtw authors Co1umn space IS available to all members of the Features Ed1tor . . . Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966
commun1ty. and the free express1on of varymg opmlons on campus. through letters. Photo Edttor . Pete Laches ,.; encouraged 
The Observer Friday, October 5, 1984 -page 8 
U.S. intelligence finds suspects in bombings 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -U.S. intelligence belieVt:l> it has itkntified the terror­ists behind the fatal Sept. 20 bom­bing ofthe American embassy annex in east Beirut, but lacks precise in­formation about their location and suspected ties to Iran, administra­tion and congressional officials said yesterday. 
Asenior Reagan administration of­ficial, who insisted on anonymity, I also said the possibility of military i retaliation against those responsible for the attack has been discussed at the White House, but has met resis­
,. ' t 
tance from a number of quarters, in­
I cluding the Pentagon's joint Chiefs 
( ofStaJJ. ~ The official said U.S. intelligence is 
1 close to a firm identification ofthose 
' 
7 behind the suicide bombing attack, although it stiU is "not 100 percent 7 sure." The group is described as one 
of a number that use the name Jihad Islami, or Islamic Holy War. 
The official did not give the group's suspected headquarters and said it may move frequently. He said the United States would also have to consider the difficulty ofstriking the suspected terrorists without inflict­ing heavy civilian casualties. 
Following last October's bombing of the U.S. marine barracks in Beirut, President Reagan declared that per­petrators of the attack "must be dealt justice," but the United States never launched a retaliatory strike. 
Since then, the administration has consistently refused to say publicly what, if anything, it would do if a group behind an attack could be pin­pointed, and spokesmen again refused to discuss such possibilities yesterday. 
In April, Reagan signed a secret policy directive authorizing preemptive strikes and reprisal raids against terrorists, according to ad­ministration officials. But the directive does not mean that a retaliatory strike must follow an at­tack. 
After the latest . bombing that killed 14 people, including two Americans, Democratic presidential nominee Walter F. mondale said that "if the perpetrators of this deed can be identified," he would back 
Reagan  in  "appropriate  counter­ 
measures."  
A  senior  administration  official  

said that the U.S. intelligence com­munity also believes that the terror­ist group is aided by Iran and Syria, two anti-U.S. governments in the Middle East. But he said their degree of control over the group is not clear. 
In a report Wednesday, the House Intelligence Committee said U.S. in­telligence has information that "implicates a particular terrorist group as responsible for the bom­bing attack" and that it "may have received support from Iran and may be one of several organizations which use the name Islamic Jihad." 
In an interview with the New York Times published yesterdaay, Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati said his government had no knowledge of the shadowy Islamic Jihad and does not support it. 
COLOR CITY T.V. RENTALS 
SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT 
* 
$25 per month 

* 
$67.50 rest ofsemester 

* 
portable orconsole 


259-7661 13398 McKinley 
FREE*****FREE
* * 
Come see yourfriends competefor the
* *
* *
* FUNNIEST PERSON **
ON NO's Campus
*
* Tuesday, October 9 * 8 p.m. at Senior Bar 
* *
* *
Winner will be the opening act of the Budweiser Comedy :
* *
Shop Tour to be held Oct. 17 at O'Laughlin Aud. 
* 
NO ID REQUIRED 
* 
**FREE**
* *
SPONSORED BY CAMPUS ENTERTAINME~ I NDSAB
* *
*lt * * CASH PRIZES * * * 
* 

***************** 
i' i'  MIAMI JE\A/El.RY  .. -tc  
:  1906Miami St..  :  
:  TOPPRICE  :  
:  RINGS*DIAMONDS  :  
i'  GOLD*SILVER  -tc  
i'...  WATCHES  -tc ..  
:  Buy ­ Sell ­ Exchange  :  
iC :  OPENMONDAY-SATURDAY9-6 289-6440  ..!  

***************** 

BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours -Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.  ~source  
Join Michiana's 1st Team  ~Bank  
for unsurpas._sed banking service!  Member F.D.I.C.  

A student bites a teacher. The school psychologist goes berserk. The substitute teacher is a certified lunatic. And students graduate who can't read or \\·rite. 
It's Monday morning atJFK High. 



TEACHERS 
United Artists Pr~11U An AARON RUSSO Production An ARTHCR HILLER Film 
Surring NICK NOLTE·JOBETH WILLIAMS·JUDD HIRSCH· RALPH MACCHIO "TEACHERS" ALLEN GARFIELD \\lth LEE GRANT •nd RICHARD MULLIGAN Wriu~n by W. R. McKINNEY Production Drs1gnni b~ RICHARD MacDONALD Dir~torofPhotognph~ DAVID M. WALSH lD~~r Ex~uti•t Produrtr IRWIN Rl'SSO ProdU<~ b~ AARON RUSSO Dir~t~ By ARTHUR HILLER 
SOCNIITlAU AVAIIAIU 0>1 t¥iot UcoaDS ANII(ANT!U 
i~-~ 
F-111rinK the music ol U. TOP BOB SEGER· JOE COCKER· NIGtrr RANGER·.38 SPECIAL.THE M<JI"EU FREDDIE MERCURY ·lA.... HU!IfnR ROMAN HOu.IDAY ·ERIC lllARTIN 1r: FRIENDS 
!~ 
,...,•• ,.....u ••,,.,,.,•.•_.,
Cl•t..n........__ 
STARTS OCTOBER 5th AT THEATRES EVERYWHERE 




. . . , ... . . . '· .-~ .. -. . . . 
Irish look for revenge against 4-2 Hurricanes 
N D has not forgotten last year's 20-0 loss to UM and plans to return the favor Bernie Kosar 
UM quarterback
By ED DOMANSKY Last season the Irish came into the game with <4 1-1 Sports Writer mark after suffering a surprise setback to Michigan State the week before they faced the Hurricanes. This 
It should come as no surprise to hear that the Notre time around, however, Notre Dame is 3-1 and is Dame Fighting Irish and the Miami Hurricanes are not coming offof a big win at Missouri. very good friends. In fact, simply saying that the two The Hurricanes, on the other hand, will arrive at teams don't get along is quite an understatement. Notre Dame with a 4-2 record. Their most recent 
The series between the two schools goes back to victory, a 38-3 triumph over the Rice Owls, put them their first meeting in 1955. In the 17 previous back on a winning path after the 38-3 thrashing they meetings, the Irish hold a 13-3-1 advantage. However, received at the hands ofFlorida State two weeks ago. on Saturday evening in Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish "We were low after the Florida State loss, but I was will put all former games out of their minds, except for glad we got it together against Rice last week," says the possible exception of last season's 20-0 whitewash­Miami coach jimmyjohnson. "Hopefully that will ing they had to absorb in Miami's Orange Bowl. The carry over to Notre Dame." fact that the game was on national television added While Johnson is looking for last week's win to get further insult to injury. his Hurricanes on track, the Irish not only have the 
"We've been on national television twice with these psychological motivation from their victory a week guys, and both times they've embarassed us," says ago at Missouri, but, more importantly, the hurt from tri-captain joeJohnson in reference to last year's last season's defeat still lingers as a driving force. defeat and 1981's 3 7-1 5 loss. "We don't have to keep Irish head coach Gerry Faust is taking a low-key telling ourselves that we have to be ready. We know approach to downplay the revenge factor, but last that, and we will be." year's game is unmistakably on his mind. "(Last year) 
Once again the Irish-Hurricane battle will be our kids got embarassed because the Miami players featured on national television. CBS telecast last year's were intimidating them. But I don't have any special game, but Saturday's contest will be carried via feelings for this game because of the shutout last year," national cable on ESPN. Like last year's game, this says Faust. "I just want the kids to go out and execute year's matchup will be played under the lights. Musco and for us to win the game. That will be all the talking Sports Ughting, Inc., will provide portable lights for we need to do." the fourth time in three seasons at Notre Dame. The Offensive guard Tim Scannell agrees with his coach. contest a year ago was moved from a late November "They're talkers and I don't think that does a lot of date to Sept. 24 to accomodate television. Likewise, good," says Scannell. "The game comes down to television has played a role in this year's event as blocking and tackling, so if they want to talk, let them." kickoff has been changed from I:30 to 6:45 EST. Apparently talking was meant to play a big role for 
the Hurricanes last year. At least that's 
what Miami cornerback Reggie Sutton 
toldSports Illustrated. "We started calling 
them names. We figured if we could make 
them talk back to us, they wouldn't have .. 
..
see REVENGE, page 11 • 
" 
..
Steve Bauerlein • .. Irish QB keeps improving every game • 
• .. 
By THERON ROBERTS teammates, and they look up to him for leadership when Sports Writer they're in the huddle." .. When the Miami Hurricanes storm int~Notrc Dame When starting assignments were passed out for the •
' 
Stadium on Saturday, they will bring with them one of next week's game against Colorado, the freshman from 1 the most heralded quarterbacks in the nation this season Fullerton, Calif., found his name receiving top billing. "I 'II 
' 
in Bernie Kosar. On the other side of the field, Notre just wanted to go out and have a good game," he recalls. .j • "I didn't think that I was. trying to take a position from
Dame will counter with another sophomore, Steve 
~
anybody, but I just wanted to help out the team."
Beuerlein. While Beuerlein may not put up the numbers And help it out he did. Beuerlein started the remain­
Kosar does, he also has found his niche in the role of ing games and improved every week. His statistics brokestarting quarterback. 
Notre Dame records for freshman quarterbacks. He
The experience began after last year's embarrassment threw for 1,Q61 yards for the season, completing 52
on national television at the hands of the Hurricanes. 
percent ofhis passes, while throwing four touchdown
Irish signal-caller Blair Kiel had been having his passes and only six interceptions.
difficulties, especially in the team's loss to Michigan But he was not content with that. He wanted more.
State the previous week. Things were not going well for He wanted to earn the label ofa winner, much like
Notre Dame in Miami's Orange Bowl either, and Head Kosar had done when he propelled his team to a
Coach Gerry Faust called upon the freshman Beuerlein national championship.
to inject some life into the Notre Dame offense. Coming into the Miami game, the comparison of
"In the Miami game, the starting quarterback was Beuerlein and Kosar is inevitable. Both are sophomores
having some difficulty and we couldn't get anything who performed better than expected in their rookie
going," says offensive coordinator Ron Hudson. "After seasons. "Kosar is a great player," notes Hudson. "He
what had happened the previous week against Michigan checks off well and he has the knack for pulling off the
State, we were ready to give Beuerlein a chance." big plays. He is a real winner."
Beuerlein answered the call, showing great poise Beuerlein may be alone in his criticisms of Kosar's
despite his very limited amount ofgame experience and quarterbacking style, however. "He gets away with a lot
showing that he possessed a talent for throwing the of things," Beuerlein says. "He's not a very
football. After that first performance, it was obvious that fundamentally-sound quarterback, but he gets the ball to
a lack ofconfidence was something that had never the receivers and that's what counts. I get frustrated
bothered Beuerlein. "I wasn't really nervous out there. I looking at that because I spend a lot of time working on
did have a lot of self-confidence, and it's important to the basics."
get that confidence across to the rest of the guys in the Like any quarterback, Beuerlein would not mind
huddle." Hudson, for one, feels that his player has done a good job in this aspect. "Steve has the confidence of his see STEVE, page 11 

MIAMI October 5, 1984·page 10 

For first time in two y





Hurricane Warning: 
ND Stadium, but lrist 
By lARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
lhe date wa'i Saturday, November 13, 1982. The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame were preparing to square off against the Penn State Nittany Lions in front ofa sellout crowd in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame was fresh off an upset ofthe then-No. I Pitt Panthers, and the Irish knew that a victory over Penn State would put them back in thick ofthe race for a major bowl berth. 
That game, though it was two years ago, has special sig­nificance in light of this Satur<Jay's clash between Notre Dame and Miami. Back in '82, the Nittany Lions, who stood at 8·1, were ranked fifth in the nation. The Irish, then 6-1· 1, were ranked 13th nationally. 
When the Hurricanes of Miami visit the Irish this Saturday, it will mark the first time in nearly two years that two top-twenty teams will do battle in Notre Dame Stadium. And, coinciden­tally, the Irish find themselves in much the same situation that they were in two seasons ago when the Nittany Lions came to town · ifthey are to retain any hope of contending for a national championship, this is one game they must win. 
On the other side of the field, the Hurricanes need a victory just as badly. The defending national champions are 4-2 this season with a schedule that ranks among the country's most difficult. Having already suffered defeats at the hands of Michigan ( 22-14) and Florida St. ( 38·3 ), Miami still. must face Pittsburgh, Maryland, and Boston College this season. 
Under first-year coach Jimmy Johnson, the Hurricanes are ranked 14th in the nation on the strength ofwins over Auburn, Florida, Purdue, and Rice. If Miami can add the 16th-ranked Irish to their list ofvictories, it will mark their first-ever win in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Although Johnson is making his first coaching appearence in Notre Dame Stadium, he is no stranger to major college football. He previously directed Oklahoma State to a 30-25-1 record in five years as head coach, taking the Cowboys to two bowl games during that span. 
Because both teams need a victory on Saturday to improve their national ranking, and because both squads have an abundance oftalent, the game figures to be a war. The difference could be the one extra motivational factor on Notre Dame's side · the desire to avenge the 20-0 thrashing which the Irish suffered at the hands of Miami in front ofa national television audience last season. 
Irish coach Gerry Faust is hoping that the desire for revenge against Miami will inspire his troops to fare better than they did two years ago against Penn State in that last big game in Notre 


lnsb Extra 
Ken Calhoun 
UM roverback 
,;j·, 
!:\ '.'&'..*.··..'· 



___.--~... . J .•.: 
. ....... ·"'""'~... .•·· '
. 
. 
. .. . ..... ·. 
Alonzo Highsmith 
Miami's sophomore leads Hurricane rushing attack, provides another threat besides Kosar's passing 
ByJOHN BEAULIEU 
Associate Sports Editor 
Miami Hurricane 
Two years ago Alonzo Highsmith was on top of the world, having just earned prep all­American honors as a defensive end out of Columbus High in Miami. Now the calendar has changed, but Highsmith remains on top · only now, as the University of Miami's star fullback. 
Highsmith, a 6-1, 230-pound sophomore 
business major, made the change from defensive 
end to fullback at the beginning ofhis UM 
career, and everyone is glad the change was 
made · well, maybe not UM opponents. 
Through the first six games ofthe Hurricanes 
tough schedule, Highsmith has emerged as a 
force to be teckoned with. He has carried the 
ball 71 times for 488 yards ( 6. 9 yards per carry 
average) and three touchdowns. 
During Miami's opening game against Auburn in the Kickoff Classic at the New Jersey Meadowlands, everyone expected Bo Jackson to assert himself with his running game. Instead, Highsmith stunned his audience with an electrifying 140 yards on 22 carries. In Miami's third game of the season against Michigan, a 2 2-14 defeat, Highsmith continued to pile up yards with 126 yards on 16 carries. 
Highsmith is soft-spoken when it comes to his individual statistics, but he is quick to give credit where and when it is due. "The offensive line has been doing a great job all year long blocking for me," Highsmith says. "They are the ones who have helped my success the most this year. The offensive line and the people sur­rounding me like Eddie Brown, Bernie Kosar, and Stanley Shakespeare · they've been great. 
"Whether I run the ball one, five or 20 times, it doesn't matter to me as long as I help contrib­ute to the team. Even though the offense is pass-oriented, I still like to go out and catch the ball. I enjoy blocking also, so I try to do the best I can out there when l'm not runnmg the ball. · 

As far as the running aspect of his game is concerned, Highsmith is doing quite well, to say the least. But he isn't bad at the receiving end, either. His 16 receptions is the fourth-best total on a team that features the likes of Brown, Shakespeare and Willie Smith. 
Highsmith burst onto the scene in Miami during last years thrilling 3 1-30 victory over Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. He rushed for SO yards on seven carries to lead the Hurricane's ground game. He also notched his first collegiate touchdown in the thirdquarter of that game. This spring he secured his spot as the Hur­ricanes No. 1 fullback and he's been turning heads ever since. 
"Probably my best asset as a running back is my speed," Highsmith says with a look of deep concentration. "Although I'm not a super-fast running back, I do have pretty good speed and that helps me a lot." 
Against Notre Dame on Saturday, Highsmith will have to kick it in high-gear if the Hurricanes hope to come out of South Bend with a victory. He'll need to keep the ground game going when Kosar and Company take breathers from passing against an inexperienced Fighting Irish second­ary. "I believe the key to the Notre Dame game will be to execute well and to perform with a minimal amount of mistakes on the field," Highsmith says. 
As long as Highsmith remains healthy, the Hurricanes' running game will prosper, and his statistics will blossom. It is a deva'itating mix . the passing game of Kosar and the running game of Highsmith. Yet, Highsmith says that he's not very big on statistics. ''I'll look at my stats but I don't worry too much about them," he says. "What matters is if we can put the victories in the win column." 
There's little doubt about it. Alonzo Highsmith has helped put four victories in Miami's win column. And there will be many more to come. 
Alonzo Highsmith 
UM fullback 
Dame Stadium, when the Nittany Lions downed the Irish 24-14. 
Miami's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: 
All ofNotre Dame's opponents so far this season have tried to 
heat the Irish via the passing game, and the Hurricanes figure to 
be no exception. The major difference is that Miami throws the 
hall better than any team Notre Dame has seen so far this season. 
Sophomore quarterback Bernie Kosar has connected on 113 of 189 passes this season, picking up 1,573 yards and eight touchdowns in the process, and is coming off the best performance ofhis career, a 25-of-~7. 368-yard, three· touchdown day against Rice last week. The Irish are well aware of Kosar's game-breaking potential after last year's game in Miami. 
"Kosar caused us problems a year ago," says Faust, "and he's obviously come a long way since that time. He's a big, rangy kid who sees the field well and has that innate sense to know where to go with the ball. He's going to make your linebackers work because he throws so many of the middle-distance passes." 
Top receivers for the Hurricanes are senior split ends Eddie Brown ( 6-0, 185 pounds) and Stanley Shakespeare ( 6-0, 179). Brown has 25 catches for 440 yards and four touchdowns, while Shakespeare has 22 receptions for 333 yards and three touchdowns. Tight end Willie Smith ( 6-2, 212) has hauled in 22 passes for 329 yards and tied the school record for receptions by hauling in 11 passes against Florida earlier this year. 
The Hurricanes can move the ball on the ground, as well. Sophomore Alonzo Highsmith has been Miami's most produc­tive rusher, with 71 carries for 488 yards and three touchdown;; Halfback Darryl Oliver, a S-11, 190-pound freshman, has rushed 54 times for 233 yards and two touchdowns. The Hurricane running backs have also proved that they can catch the ball, as Highsmith and Oliver have combined to haul in 25 aerials for 254 yards. 
"Everybody knows Miami and Kosar can throw," says Faust, "but the improvement oftheir running game may be the most impressive aspect of this team. They've got their entire offensive line back, and their running is more of an integral part of their offense." 
Miami's offensive line, the self-proclaimed "Blitzbusters," consists offour seniors and a sophomore, and ha'i an average size of6-3, 252 pounds. Left tackle Paul Bertucelli, center Ian Sinclair, right guard Alvin Ward, and right tackle Dave Heffernan are all returning starters from the '83 national championship team, while senior left guard Mike Moore is the only newcomer. 
Miami's offense has been its own worst enemy so far this season, as Kosar has thrown 10 interceptions and the Hur­ricanes have fumbled the hall 13 times, losing six. Penalties have also hurt Miami · they have beer:t whistled 49 times this year for 395 yards. 
This is an offense that has not been as productive as it can be, mainly because the pass protection has not been up to par. Kosar has been sacked 16 times this season, which has toned down the Hurricanes' passing statistics a bit. Nonetheless, Miami's aerial attack ranks sixth in the nation at 282.3 yards per game. IfKosar gets solid pass protection, then the Hurricanes offense could put some big numbers up on the board just as they did against Rice last Saturday, despite bad weather conditions. 
"I think the fact that Bernie Kosar was able to set a single­game passing mark in the rain is a tribute to our effort as an offensive unit," saysJohnson. "The line did a remarkable job, especially since we had Dave Heffernan playing out of position (center) and we were starting a guy (sophomore tackle Gregg Rakoczy) for the first time. We certainly took control ofthe Rice game from the very start. We also did not put all the pressure on the quarterback to win the game. We established the running game early and made things easier on ourselves." 
The Irish will be trying to stop Miami with a defense that has been severely hampered by injuries. Notre Dame lost inside linebacker Tony Furjanic for six weeks when he injured knee ligaments against Missouri. Furjanic had been a defensive leader and the team's top tackler so far this season. John McCabe, a 6-3, 228-pound junior, will start in Furjanic's place against the Hurricanes. 
Injuries have hit the defensive line the hardest, with nose tackle Eric Dorsey (ankle) listed as doubtful for Saturday, and right tackle Greg Dingens (shoulder) and nose tackle Mike Griffin (knee) also hampered. Dingens and Griffin are both probable for the Miami game, but reserve left tackle Byron Spruell (knee) is doubtful. Reserve nose tackle Mike Kiernan, a 6-2, 248-pound junior, will most likely see some action agaist Miami after handling the nose-tackle spot for most of the second half against Missouri. 
"We're banged up," says Faust, "and it seems like we lose someone new with something serious every week. But the people we've thrown in there have played their hearts out, the Mike Kiernans and the John McCabes. We just have to keep plugging along and hope we don't get any more nicked up than we are already." 
The Irish will need to mount a strong pass rush, with senior left tackle Mike Gann (five sacks this season) leading the way, in order to take the pressure off their defensive backs. · 
Notre Dan1e's offense vs. Miami's defense: 
Irish quarterhack Steve Beuerlein has some impressive stats of his own, connecting on 51 of 77 passes for 7 S 3 yards and four touchdowns this season. Like Kosar, Beuerlein is coming off his most productive game ever, having completed 16 of 25 passes for 256 yards against the Tigers. That performance helped move the Irish sophomore into seventh place in the NCAA quarter­back efficiency standings. 
"Steve ha'i gotten a little bit better every week out," says Faust. "We'll take whatever a defense will give us, and so far this year we've had more opportunities to throw the ball than we 
have in the past." 

F 
MIAMI 


~>b~:::::::::: XtE~=r:§!a~==::==============================================-october s, 1984-page 11 
ears, two ranked teams will play in must stop Kosar to stay ranked 
Notre Dame's top receiver is junior tight end Mark Bavaro,  
who has 14 catches for 185 yards. Beuerlein's other targets  
include junior flanker Milt Jackson ( 11 receptions for 1 S 1 yards  
and two touchdowns) and freshman split end Tim Brown ( 1 0  
catches for 118 yards). Sophomore split end Alvin Miller will be  
out for four more weeks with knee ligament damage suffered  
against Michigan State, but senior split end joe Howard is ready  
to return at full strength from a hamstring injury.  
Notre Dame's passing success this season has been due in part  
to opposing teams' concern with stopping the potent Irish  
running game ­especially Allen Pinkett. The junior tailback has  
been drawing plenty of attention this year, but has still managed  
to score seven touchdowns. He has yet to top the 70-yard mark  
in a game this season, however.  
"Every defense we have seen has been stacked with seven or·  
eight people on the line to stop Pinkett," says Faust_ "The other  
teams have been saying, 'We're not going to let Pinkett get 200  
yards and beat us by himself.' Because of that, we're throwing  
the ball a lot more than people probably expected. But our  
offensive line also has to start coming off the ball better. We're  
just not opening the holes inside, and we should have the  
personnel to do that."  
In addition to Pinkett, the Irish will be trying to spring  
sophomore tailback Alonzo Jefferson, who has 2S carries for 86  
yards and two touchdowns this season. Fullbacks Mark Brooks  
( 20 carries for 85 yards and two touchdowns) and Chris Smith ·  
( 1 5 carries for 44 yards) provide the Irish with powerful  
blockers and short-yardage runners. Although Notre Dame's  
running game has not been that productive this year, Faust  
knows that Saturday's game may not be won by the pass alone.  
"It's the same way as the Missouri game," says Faust.  
"Everyone thought the score would be 40-35, but even with all  
the yardage gained by both teams, the game was won on  
defense. This week could be the same way. Everyone thinks you'll see both teams throw the ball40 times, but it might be a  Allen Pinkett  
Pinkett or a Highsmith who makes the difference." Turnovers have been the biggest enemy of the Notre Dame  ND tailback  
offense in its first four games. Beuerlein has thrown six  
interceptions this season, and the Irish have fumbled nine times,  
losing five. The Irish have frequently appeared difficult to stop  
on offense · when they can avoid self-destructing.  
Miami's defense lost many ofits big names to graduation, but  
still maintains its agressive style of play. On the defensive line,  
end julio Cortes, a 6-1, 215-pound senior, and tackle Kevin  
Fagan, a 6-3, 260-pound junior, figure to put some heat on  
Beuerlein. Notre Dame's offensive line will suffer ifLarry  
Williams (questionable with a knee injury) is unable to play.  
Two other key players in the Hurricane defense are roverback  
Ken Calhoun and cornerback Reggie Sutton. Sutton, Irish fans  
may remember, blocked two Irish field goal attempts in last  
year's game.  
The keys to the game:  
There are several factors which make this Saturday's game  
different from any other that the Irish have played this season.  
The most obvious is that Miami is far more talented than any of  
Notre Dame's previous opponents, and that fact alone is enough  
to turn this game into a war. But the intangible factors present  
could have a substantial effect on the outcome ofthis contest.  
The most important intangible factor is that these two teams  
do not like each other. The Hurricanes love beating Notre  
Dame, and ifthey can embarass the Irish as they did last season,  
then that's all the better. They would like nothing more than to  
pull offa repeat of last year's game, right here in Notre Dame  
Stadium. c ontinued from page 9  
The Irish have been looking forward to this game for quite  
some time, because it provides them with the long-awaited  
opportunity for revenge. In addition to their own motivation,  
the Notre Dame players will have a large, boisterous crowd  
supporting them · an element which just might turn the game in  
their favor. fo r the young quarterback.  
Motivation may just be Notre Dame's biggest weapon because  
injuries will make it difficult to contend with a powerful Miami  
team. Ifthe Irish can motivate themselves to a cqnsistent, higher  
level ofperformance and draw some energy off the crowd, then  
they can gain the upper hand.  
The key for Notre Dame will be to establish the momentum in  
the early going, and play consistent, agressive, errorless football h ave made good plays."  
from then on. Ifthey can accomplish this, they may just have  
their revenge.  

continued from page 9 
their minds on what they were doing," he said. 
The strategy may have worked last year, but many of the Irish players seem determined to make the Hurricanes eat their words on Saturday. "The best thing about the sport of football is that you can pay somebody back for something they do to you," says tailback Allen Pinken. "Football gives you that chance. Our enthusiasm is high, especially after the humiliation. They made a program known as a dynasty look like the Little Sisters of the Poor." 
"We remember getting our faces rubbed in the dirt last year," says split end joe Howard. "We remember hearing them say how we looked scared and how they bad­mouthed us after the game. That gives us more incentive to know we have to go out and play them again." 
JoeJohnson says the game is probably one of the most important ofhis career. As a senior he has seen the good and the bad, but he sees this game as a key to the rest of 1984. 
"This game is probably the biggest game of the year in being asked to throw the football more often. With the Irish running game having little success through the first four weeks of this season, Hudson has been opening up the offense more which means more passing attempts 
Beuerlein has enjoyed success throwing the football, even though two of the top receivers for the Irish have been out with injuries for the past two games. "I feel a lot better throwing the ball when it's to people like the receivers we have on this team. Even the younger players who have been filling in because of the injuries 
One of the things essential to a good passing offense besides a good running game is pass protection. Most of 
• • . Revenge 
terms ofhaving to prove ourselves," he says, "but, more 
importantly, we have to prove to ourselves that we are a 
good football team." 
"Everyone has a lot of pride and we certainly want to show that we're more capable than we showed last year," adds Scannell. 
Rivalries always stir enthusiasm, and Howard, a senior like johnson, finds that the Miami game is one which has great significance. "I've been associated with this particular game for four years," he explains, "and ifthere's really any game I want to play in, it's Miami. lbe game with USC also means a lot personally, but, right now, my mind is on Miami." 
When the defending national champions take the field, they will bring with them their same balanced attack, and, no doubt, their same intimidating tactics will come as well. But what the Irish hope to prove is that they are a much better team than the one the Hurricanes blew apart last season. 
I 
1 
I 
j 
I I I I I I I 
~ 
I 
j 
I I I j 
I I j j 
I I I I I I I I I I 
j 
~ 
• • • Steve 
the time this season, Beuerlein has been protected by 
the offensive front five like a fragile commodity. "I've 
had plenty oftime to set up and throw most ofthe 
time," Beuerlein says. "The offensive line takes a lot of 
pride in that and I appreciate it an awful lot." 
Even though the 6-3, 203-pounder has shown the talent for picking out secondary receivers and possesses a precise throwing arm, he still must overcome his relative inexperience. "Steve is still a young player, and he still is making some mistakes," Hudson points out. "He forces the ball sometimes when he shouldn't, just like all quarterbacks who have a lot ofconfidence, and he throws some interceptions because of that. Even though he has played well, Steve has yet to be in a 'pressure cooker' where he has to win, but that will come up eventually." 
Ifnone ofthe Irish games yet have fit that description, Saturday's matchup will certainly be the first one. "There's no doubt in my mind that we will be fired up for the game," says Beuerlein. "After what they did to us last year, we definitely owe them one." 
The Notre Dame field general has similar thoughts about the prospect for a good season. "We've got the talent, the coaches and the system to do really well this year. I've been confident all year. Each game I'm learning more things about reading defenses and about our own players. The offense has been doing better lately. The times when our offense has been most effective is when we throw the ball on first and second down. That, in turn, opens up holes for the running game. We had things rolling against Missouri, but the coaches started to get conservative. We have to try to continue to keep the defense off-balance." 
For only being a sophomore, Beuerlein has performed like a seasoned veteran in the crucial situations in the first four games. The Miami contest will be a good time to measure his performance under fire, and Bernie Kosar will be the yardstick against which his ability will be gauged. 

\ 
-, 
\ 
~ 
I 
' 
.\ 
;~ 
,1 
r ~ 
I 
r 
,'I 



·' r 
' 
1..'
... 
( ~. 
') 
~ 
R 
~· 
7\ 
r;\(.' 
f\ 
r\ 
?\ ,\ ,\ 
~~ ~ 
r 
p\ 
(\
,' r ~ 
r 
~ 
~ 
( 
f f r 
f 
~. 
~~ 



,, ~. 
~· 
} ' ·f 
f' 
' 
~ 
~: 
~~ 
--~ 
1,-/ 
~· 
~~J
.,, 
·~ 
;?, 
Iff.I 
~: ~· 
:~I 
'Jf 
'If 
't/
'IX 
~,x 
!if 
I. 
tf 
11,_ 
rr 
.If 
.r.'" 
'\ 
r ·,:• ' 
rl'' 
' 
~ 
MIAMI October 5, 1984-page 12

lnsb. Extra 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI 
GAME: 
SITE: TIME: lV-RADIO: 
SERIES: 



THE GAME 
Fighting Irish vs. Miami Hurricanes 
Notre Dame Stadium(.59,075) 
6:45 EST; Saturday, Oct. 6, 1984 ESPN Live National Telecast Jim Simpson and Ed Biles 
WNDU-1V(Ch. 16) jeffjeffers and jack Nolan 
TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network Harry Kalas and George Connor 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts, Pat Sheridan, Luther Bradley WNDU-AM 1500 
Notre Dame 13, Miami 3, ties 1 
LAST MEETING:  September 24, 1983 Miami 20, Notre Dame 0  
RANKINGS: TICKETS:  (AP) Notre Dame 16th, Miami 14th Game is sold out  
•  


THE SCHEDULE 
NOTRE DAME MIAMI 
SEPT. 8lost to Purdue, 23-21  AUG. 27 def. Auburn, 20-18  
SEPT. 1 5 def. Mich. St., 24-20  SEPT. 1 def. Florida, 32-20  
SEPT. 22 def. Colorado, 55-14  SEPT. 8lost to Michigan, 22-14  
SEPT. 29 def. Missouri, 16-14  •  SEPT. 1 5 def. Purdue, 28-1 7  
OCT. 6MIAMI  SEPT. 22 lost to Fla. St., 38-3  
OCT. 13 AIR FORCE  SEPT. 29 def. Rice, 38-3  
OCT. 20 SOUTH CAROLINA  OCT. 6 at Notre Dame  
OCT. 27 at L.S.U.  OCT. 13 at Cinc!nnati  
NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands  OCT. 20 PITTSBURGH  
NOV. 1 7 PENN STATE  NOV. 3 at Louisville  
NOV. 24 at Southern Cal  NOV. 10 MARYLAND  

NOV. 23 BOSTON COLLEGE 

• 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS(?) 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major col­lege football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS. 
FLORIDA over Syracuse by 11 MICHIGAN over Michigan State by 12 PENN STATE over Maryland by 9 ILLINOIS over Wisconsin by 6. 5 NEBRASKA over Oklahoma State by 9 Iowa over NORTHWESTERN by 14 Ohio State over PURDUE by 9 ALABAMA even with Georgia ARKANSAS over Texas Christian by 3.5 AIR FORCE over Navy by I 2 Southern Cal over WASHINGTON STATE by 3.5 UCLA over Stanford by 9 MINNESOTA over Indiana by 2 NOTRE DAME even with Miami 
Last Year's Game 
September 24, Hl83 Notre Dame 0 0 0 0 0 Miami 7 7 3 3 20 
Scoring 
UM -Neal2 run (Davis kick) 
UM -Brown 12 pass from Kosar (Davis kick) 
UM -FG 27 Davis 
UM -FG 36 Davis 
NO UM 
First downs 22 19 Rushing attempts 38 34 Net Yards Rushing 102 81 Net Yards Passing 233 215 Passes camp-attempted 22-44 22-33 Had intercepted 2 1 Total Net Yards 335 296 Fumbles-lost 2-1 1-1 Penalties-yards 7-73 6-64 Punts-average 4-31.3 3-40.3 
Individual LMdera 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett 15-58; Smith 8-4 Bell4-4; Brooks 1-4; Kie13--2: Bauerlein 7--3; Miami: Griffin 9-39; Neal 9-30: Bentley 9-28: Vanderwende 1-2: Highsmith 1--1; Kosar 5--17; 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Beuer1ein 13-23-0. 145; Kiel9-21-2,88; Miami: Kosar 22-33-1,215; 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Jackson 4-61; HmNart11 4-32; Pinkett 4-22; Bell2-36; Bavaro 2·18; Smith 2-7; Miller 1-25: Jefferson 1-16; Favorite 1-10; W1lliams 1-6; Miami: Dennison 8-75; Shakespeare 4-34; Brown 3-39; Griffin 3-29; Bentley 2-26; Neal 2-12: 
Attendance -52.480 


THE STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1334 1360 Pinkett 4 7 0-0 6-1 0 0-0 42 
Total Plays 260 284 Carney 4 0 12-12 0-0 0 5-5 27 
Yards per Pla9 5.1 4.8 Jackson 4 2 0-0 0-2 0 0-0 12 
Yards per Game 333.5 340.0 Brooks 4 2 0-0 2-0 0 0-0 12 
PENAL TIES-YARDS 23-168 20-191 Jefferson 4 2 0-0 2-0 0 0-0 12 
Ward 3 1 0-0 0-1 0 0-0 6 FUMBLES-LOST 9-5 9-6 Chura 2 0 1-1 0-0 0 1-1 4 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 79 78 VonWyl 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 0-0 1 
By Rushing 36 37 
By Passing 39 37 NO 4 14 14-14 10·4 0 5-5116 
By Penalty 4 4 OPP 4 8 7·8 4-4 1 5-6 71 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 52-26 55-22 
RECEIVING G NO YOS AVG TO LG Percentage .500 .400 
POSSESSION TIME 113:33 126:27 
Bavaro 4 14 185 13.2 0 24 Minutes per Game 28:23 31:37 
Jackson 4 11 151 13.7 2 31 
Brown 4 10 118 11.8 0 19 
Pinkett 4 6 91 15.2 1 40 PASSING G NO CO PCT INT VOS TO Howard 3 3 61 20.3 0 26 
Jefferson 4 3 40 13.3 0 27 Beuerlein 4 77 51 .662 6 753 4 Ward 3 2 84 42.0 1 74 Grooms 3 2 .667 0 17 0 Smith 4 1 18 18.0 0 18 Andrysiak 0 0 .000 0 0 0 Miller 2 1 15 150 0 15 
Brooks 4 1 13 13.0 0 13 NO 4 81 54 .667 6 794 4 Grc 3 1 11 11 .0 0 11 OPP 4 92 54 .587 6 729 4 Cusack 4 1 7 7.0 0 7 
NOTRE DAME 4 54 794 14.7 4 74 RUSHING G NO YOS AVG TO LG OPPONENTS 4 54 729 13.5 4 50 
Pinkett 4 77 258 3.4 6 20 DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK Jefferson 4 25 86 3.4 2 10 Brooks 4 20 85 4.2 2 12 Furjanic 48 0-0 1 0 0 Smith 4 15 44 2.9 0 11 Kovaleski 43 1-3 2 0 0 
Flemons 1 10 31 3.1 0 15 Johnson 30 0-0 1 0 0 Monahan 3 2 17 8.5 0 10 Banks 26 1-2 0 0 0 Miller 2 1 13 -13.0 0 13 Gann 25 7-63 0 1 0 DeHueck 1 3 11 3.7 0 6 McCabe 24 0-0 0 0 0 Stams 3 • 1 5 5.0 0 5 Ballage 18 0-0 3 0 0 Machtolf 1 2 3 1.5 0 2 Wilson 18 0-0 0 1 0 Carter 1 2 1 0.5 0 1 Kleine 15 3-11 0 2 0 Jackson 4 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4 Lawrence 14 0-0 2 1 0 Grooms 1 1 -12 -12.0 0 -12 Griffin 13 1-4 0 0 1 Bauerlein 4 19 2 0.1 0 18 DiBernardo 13 0-0 2 0 0 
Figaro 12 0-0 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 4 179 540 3.0. 10 20 Dorsey 12 0-0 1 0 0 OPPONENTS 4 192 631 3.3 4 48 Golic 10 0-0 0 0 0 
f:.., 
-~.
.-;:J· 
~ . :...
·-·-··:­
~
t ..
::· -___-~:;:--:. 
·)l 

-/4*1 
Larry Burke JeffBiumb Mike Sullivan Theron Roberts Ed Oomansky Tim Kempton Oscar Osorio 
Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Sports Ed1tor Sports Writer Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student 
27-26 22-31 19-34 19-34 17-36 24-29 27-26 
.509 .415 .358 .358 .321 .453 .509 
(last week -6-8) (last week-6-8) 
Orangemen Orangemen Orangemen Gators Gators Orangemen Orangemen Spartans Wolverines Wolverines Spartan~ Spartans Wolverines Wolverines
• 
Lions Lions Lions Lions Terps Lions Terps 
Badgers Badgers Badgers Illini Badgers Illini Illini 
Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cowboys Cornhuskers 
Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Hawkeyes Wildcats Hawkeyes Hawkeyes 
Buckeyes Boilers Buckeyes Boilers Boilers Buckeyes Buckeyes 
Tide Tide Tide Bulldogs Bulldogs Tide Bulldogs Razorbacks Razorbacks Frogs Razorbacks Razorbacks Frogs Razorbacks 
Middies Middies Middies Middies Falcons Falcons Falcons 
Trojans Cougars Trojans Trojans Cougars Cougars Trojans 
Cardinal Cardinal Bruins Cardinal Bruins Cardinal Bruins 
Gophers Gophers Gophers Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Gophers 
Hurricanes Irish Hurricanes Irish Irish Irish Hurricanes 







Showcase 
Friday, October 5, 1984 -page 13 
Theatre 
ND/SMC Theatre opens season with The Hothouse 

''The Wild Life:" a waste of time and money 
by Shelli Camfield 
features staff writer 
B
efore you read this review, ask yourself the following ques­tions. Please he honest --this is for your own good. 
1. 
Do you have an LQ. that is the equivalent of Cool whip? Do you, for any reason whatsoever, have less than 50 functioning braincells? 

2. 
Are you easily amused? That is, do you get a big kick out ofanyth­ing that insults your intelligence? 

3. 
Do you have a date coming up with a person who, for some reason, vou are determined to bore to


•
death and impress upon that you 
are an ignorant, tasteless clod? 
Ifyou have answered "yes" to any of the above, have I got a movie for you! lr's called "The Wild Life," and it is brought to you from the same people who gave us "Fast Times at Ridgemont High." 
Don't be misled. True, both movies are lacking in plot, fairly tasteless, and typical ofteeney-bop sex comedies (although "The Wild Life" has little in the way ofsex). Somehow, "Fast Times" managed to pull it off. It was easy to follow, fast-moving, and fairly humorous. 
On the other hand, "The Wild 
Life" never gets off the ground. It is 
slow-moving, unorganized, and 
brainless. Furthermore, you won't 
exactly find yourselfon the floor in 
front ofyour seat, suffering with 
uncontrollable paroxysms of 
laughter. You may wind up on the 
tloor,alright --but just make sure 
someone wakes you up when the 
movie is over. 
As for the plot --well, there is none. Or rather, there are several-­all irrelevant, all meaningless.The central plot seems to revolve around our main man, played by Christopher Penn-· incidentally, the brother ofSean Penn of"Fast Times" fame. 
Naturally, Penn plays the same slow boneheaded character that big brother played. The only difference is that he sports short hair, a flowered Hawaiian shirt under his wrestling uniform, and instead of dubbing everything with "Awwwe­some!" he inflicts his philosophy of "It's casual" upon every dis­crepancy he encounters. (My best guess is that it's the only three­syllable word he knows.) His main thing seems to be his attempts to win the heart ofhis former girlfrknd, Eileen (Jenny Wright) --a salesgirl at "Fashion Dynasty" --and getting his first apartment with his best buddy, a red-headed, clean-cut guy who looks like Little Opie grown up. 
There are a few subplots. There is a 13-year-old counter-culture rebel (played by llan Mitchel-Smith) who is hung up on Viet Nam and his mystery "dream girl" at the local howling alley. We are also sub­jected to the heartbreak of Penn's roomy, whose donut-shop girlfriend (Lea Thompson) is having a torrid affair with a young, gor­geous, married cop. Finally, there is spiky-haired Eileen, who is preoc· cupied with fighting off the ardent Penn and the advances of her manager ·· another funky flamer donning round specs, boxy checkerboard-like clothing, and mega-gelled bulletproofhair. In spite ofit all, the whole mess is J slow-moving and stupid. j 
So, you ask, why the title? The j best answer I can come up with, besides the fact that "wild life" refers to what said apartment har­bors after slob and party-animal Penn moves in, is the incredible party that serves as the culmination of the whole shebang. It is, after all, the best scene in the movie, though it hits short ofthe drunken oblivion of Delta Frat in that comedy classic I need not mention. 
Still, it is wild. Where else can you see Penn and his cement­headed wrestling team smash through the wall ofthe neighboring apartment in order to create a hig· ger party room --with their beads ? Wake up, audience. The party scene --as well as the aftermath -· is the most exciting scene in this movie. 
Overall, "The Wild We " isn't the life. It is wildly slow, wildly predic­table, and wildly meaningless. Save your money. 




Showcase Friday, October 5,1984-page 14 
Movies 
Irreconcilable inconsistencies spoil this film 
by Don Seymour 
features staff writer 
A new movie that opened at the .l"l.scottsdale Mall last weekend, Irreconcilable Differences, suffers from a lack ofconsistency. From its advertising, I got the impression that it was going to be a cutesy comedy --a nine-year-old girl divorcing her parents. The first scenes confirm this view: a lawyer cautioning his client on the finality ofdivorce only to cut to the client ­nine-year-old Casey Brodsky, played by Drew Barrymoore ofE.T. fame; then, outside a crowded courthouse, Casey citing to the press that she and her parents have irreconcilable differences, which she mispronounces, being only nine years old. However, inside the courtroom, as each member of the family testifies, a series offlashbacks reveals the rather grim drama ofthe Brodskys' life. 
Albert Brodsky, played by Ryan O'Neal, owner ofa PhD in film, is hitchhiking across the country to a job at UClA. Caught in a rainstorm in Indiana, he predictably finagles a ride with a hesitant Lucy Van Pat­ten, played by Shelly Long of Cheers, who is driving her fiance's car out to San Diego where they'll marry. Her intended, a navy macho man, has made cassettes to guide her through every state following a 
very precise plan wh1ch he's mapped out. The tapes supply some ofthe movie's best humor. Along the way, we discover that Lucy is an aspiring children's writer. Of course, she and Brodsky fall in love, marry, and have a daughter: Casey. 
Brodsky, being a prominent film professor and critic, is invited one night to a screening ofa producer's new movie. Badgered by the producer for his opinion, Albert points out the flaws, and is offered a 
job fixing them. Lucy, horrified by the lifestyles ofthe Hollywood crowd, cautions him: "I don't want to become like these people." but Albert takes the job. 
What unfolds next is a drama of people who should never have had a child, ofpeople who typify the Hollywood nightmare -letting the excesses ofsuccess consume them. Brodsky is askedd to write and direct an original project. He gets Lucy to help him write it and the picture becomes a smash. 
Gradually, we sense an uneasi­ness in Lucy about Albert's fame. And poor Casey is largely ignored. Together, Lucy and Albert write a second film, but Albert falls in love with the leading lady and kicks both Lucy and Casey out ofthe house. 
The second film becomes a 
Bits and Pieces Wumpus 
l 
) 
0 
Free Tailgate Parties· Every Sat. 11 -5 FRtt Munchies Watch the game on our Sa1ellltellg Screen T.V. 
MR. D's 
1516 N.lronwood South Bend 233-7747 

~mash and pushes Albert over the brink. He buys a huge mansion and caters to his starlet's every whim, including production ofa huge musical ripoff ofGone wtth the Wind. Lucy, on the other hand, falls into a deep emotional rut. During this time, Casey is shuttled back and forth like a toy, used as a weapon to obtain child support or revenge. One ofthe most poignant and definitely the saddest moment of the film comes after Albert's big­budget musical flops and his starlet abandons him. Bankrupt, he lives in a rundown hotel. On one visit, he and Casey have an argument. She defiantly states that he can't tell her what to do, and he retorts that he can because he's her father. She replies, "No you're not, you don't pay child support any-more." 
Lucy eventually returns to life by writing a bestselling novel based on her relationship with Albert. Despite her aversion to Hollywood people at the start ot the him, she becomes a conceited, artificial prima donna. The height ofher egoism is perfectly demonstrated when, upon finding out her book hit number one on the bestseller list, she calls her attendants and servants in for the big announce­ment and they react awkwardly, forcing smiles and words ofpraise. 
By this time, the film has made its point about the way in which egoism destroys deep personal relationships by ignoring responsi­bility and compassion. The problem with the film lies in its inability to decide what kind offilm it wants to be. Starting as a breezy comedy, it becomes a searing indictment of the way in which Americans ap­proach marriage and child rearing, only to end as a tearjerker with Barrymoore making an obvious, moralistic speech to the courtroom. 
The film does work to a degree. 
At the beginning, I sided with the 
parents, dismissing the kid as a rich 
l'he pertormances in the movie are average. O'Neal plays a charac­ter similar to many other characters he's played. Long does a fine job despite the inexplicable contradic­tions written into her character. 
spoiled brat, but by the end ofthe 
film, I was so angry with Lucy and 
Albert that I wanted Casey to win 
some greater vindication than just 
living with the maids' family, the 
only people who ever really cared 
for her. Barrymoore suffers from cute child syndrome. She was great playing a little sister inE. T., but when called upon to do any substantial acting, she merely recites the lines with 
cliched emotion. 
lrreconcileable Differences looks like it could have been a promising comedy, but as a drama, it falls short of the catharsis it could reach. The whole mess winds up mostly depressing. I'd wait for this one to come to cable. 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29 7:30 NOTRE DAME A.C.C. ALL SEATS RESERVED $1350 
TICKETS AVAilABLE AT THE A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, SEARS (UNIVERSITY PARK MALL, ELKHART, MICHIGAN CITY), ROBERTSON'S (SO. BEND, TOWN AND COUNTRY AND CONCORD MALL), ELKHART TRUTH, J.R.'S MUSIC SHOP (lAPORTE), ST. JOSEPH BANK (MAIN OFFICE), 
~":J WORLD RE~_QRD (GOSHEN), MUSIC 0 MAGIC (BENTON HARROR), AND -o.$,·0~ KARMA RECORDS (FT. WAYNE) ~b-0~ 91~ ff ~ <l.~Q/~ ~ ...,o~ ;:,'f. ~~ ~Q ~"3 ~ 
i5 
Not a perfect roommate 
by Lisa Visingardi 
features staff writer 
"zelda?Zelda Castolanavich?" "Hi! You must be my roommate," she replied. 
My heart moved six inches closer to my throat as I stared at the per­son I would be living with during my freshman year at college. It took a few moments, but I pulled myself together. My mother's words echoed through my head: "You can't judge a book by its cover." 
It's been six weeks since that first day ofintroductions. With the passing ofeach week I come closer and closer to being committed to Bellvue. I never thought that rooming with someone I didn't know could affect my lifestyle so immensely. But it has! 
To know Zelda is to know my problems. She remind'i me ofa type ofperson depicted in movies and magazines. Living with her wouldn't be so bad ifshe didn't take every­thing to such extremes. For exam­ple, she loves Michael jackson: Michael jackson music; Michael jackson clothes; Michael jackson dancing; Michael jackson every­thing. To top it off, she has turned our room into a Michael jackson museum! (Mr. jackson -"Here is your life.") Morning, noon, and night, it's MJ time with Zelda. 
On a typical day, which is every day ofthe week, Zelda gets up at 
6:00 a.m. She showers and washes her hair. By 6:37 she's back in the room with her MJ albums on the stereo. Go MJ! Sing it Zelda!! As she sings, she goes through the motions ofblow drying her hair. 
Finding it impossible to sleep any longer, I drag myselfout ofbed at 
7:05. After I have showered, I go back to the room to do my hair. By 
this time, roomie has full control of 
the mirror. Until 8:30 she puts on 
her make-up and styles her aero­
dynamically designed hair. IfI want 
to be on time for my 9:05 class, I 
have to get ready in the bathroom. 
"Ibe steam from the showers does 
wonders on freshly curled hair! 
Upon returning from my morning classes, I find roomie lying on her bed watching her favorite soap operas. Because ofthe little amount ofsleep I get at night, I try to take a nap. This is extremely difficult to do when my roommate keeps com­menting on every scene that flashes across the television screen. Realiz­ing that I'm fighting a losing battle, I decide to catch up on writing the letters I owe to relatives and friends. 
When 1 :05 comes along, my heart begins to pound within my chest. Zelda has a 1:1 5 class, which means that I will get to take a nap for one hour! The minute she leaves, my head hits the pillow and I drift into a deep sleep within five minutes. At 2: 1 5, roomie returns to the room to begin her homework. 
During the late afternoon and early evening while Zelda is finish­ing her homework, I'm at my classes, followed by crew practice. ~'hen I return to the hall at 8:30 to begin my studying, roomie has her friends in for socializing. Whether she's entertaining or not, she goes to bed precisely at 10:30. I never finish my studies before 1 :00! Con­sequently, I must remove myself to the study lounge located four floors down in the basement. 
As I sit here at my favorite table, I reflect upon how Zelda has changed my lifestyle. I used to sleep in until noon, but now I'm up before the birds! I used to enjoy listening to Michael jackson, but now I find it torture! I used to hate going to class, but now I look for­ward to it! Yes, living with Zelda is an experience which has greatly affected my life. 
Despite all of the problems, there are a few good things that have resulted from this living arrange­ment. For example, I have made several new friends who are always willing to offer their rooms as places ofrefuge. Who knows, ifI'm not committed by Christmas, I may get a new roommate! 


Showcase 
Friday, October 5, 1984-page 15 

Letters to a lonely God 
Zeal is not a sin 
begin with prophets forgetting how
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
the wind should be tempered to the features staff writer shorn lamb. The prophet worth his salt lets you see, as his essential 
have a good friend who has teachers who took an interest in a credential, the small miracle ofIbeen giving me static for going off kid, and trained him with official personal tenderness, proving him to the deep end in my recent trust. Forty years ago, they didn't be a true witness of the merciful Observer columns. He dismisses my realize God wasn't finished with His Christ. opinions as nonsense or silliness, or, church yet. "1 00,000 years from Recently, I was invited to dinner crudely, as the waste product ofa now, it will still be the same," they in aJewish home celebrating the male animal with horns. Ifthe elec­thought. It left me breathless with Sabbath. I wanted during that meal tion isn't over soon, my friend and I reverence to hear them say it. I'm to be counted as one ofthe children 
•MOVIES are going to have a parting of the still a reverent Catholic, though I ofAbraham, chosen by God to keep If you're in the mood for some classic James Bond action this ways. I try to be sensitive, open, and have to be careful with the Human His name alive in that long, dark weekend be sure to see agent 007, Roger Moore, surviving his never 
honest. It is chilling to realize I've Element that wants to beat me over night ofhistory. The children at the 
endinglife in the fast lane in "Octopussy." The Student Activities will made my friend ashamed of me. the head with infallible opinions. A table read in Hebrew from the Book be presenting the film tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9, and 11 in Sunday is my birthday; in a year representative ofthe Human Ele­ofGenesis where it describes how the Engineering Auditorium. Admission will be I 1. or two, ifI live, I will be a senior ment said: "The Pope is the only God sanctified the sabbath. We 
The Friday Night Film Series will present "Wuthering Heights citizen. For over half my life, I've one in the Church who knows what were keeping faith with the genera­(Abismos del Pasion)" tonight at 7:30. This 1953 Spanish film with been a priest. For nearly 15 years, he's doing." In Rome lastJune, the tions since Moses who loved the English subtitles is referred to as a Freudian adaptation-Mexican film I've written a weekly column for cops wouldn't let me get close day ofrest, the Almighty's gift at a that results in an improbably absurd mix of Wagnerian emotional the Observer. Let me tell you what enough to see what the Pope was time when the tribes were slaves in excess and tacky production values described as "magnificently it's been like to do this and other doing, though many thousands had Egypt. Watching the beauty ofthe lurid, incredibly tender." The film will be presented in the Annen­
writing. I read as much as I can; I seats nearer to him than I was 
children offering us the sabbath burg Auditorium and admission is 12. 50. listen to what people are saying. allowed to go. It lessened my sense peace, I began to feel ashamed of Then, with the help Clf common ofloyalty to be treated as undeserv­the sins ofChristians, beginning •MUSIC 
sense, my own experience, and the ing. I'm not impressed when an with the popes who allowed the On Sunday, the Music Department's University Artists Series will christian tradition, I try to make archbishop comes back from Jews to be harmed, and even en­
present Spencer Burleson in a classical guitar concert. The concert sense ofwhat's happening. Ifideas wining and dining with His Holi­couraged the pogroms. TheJews in will begin at 4 p.m. in the AnnenburgAuditorium. General admission come to my mind that I can't get rid ness, and says: "This is what the 
their suffering have had more dig­will be 12 and student admission S 1, or free with Notre Dame or of, it seems worthwhile to write of Pope expects American Catholics nity and religious character than all Saint Mary's ID. them. I make mistakes that I'm sorry to do." I distrust second-hand the pretenders ofrenaissance Notre Dame's singing and dancing ensemble, "Shenanigans" will 
for. Nevertheless, I trust myselfas a messages. Eventually, I'll have the Rome. It is a blessing from heaven perform in concert tomorrow at 12 and 2 p.m. in the Ubrary writer; otherwise I wouldn't have grace to get over my hurt feelings. to know how unworthy you are, Auditorium. A I 1 admission fee will be charged and all proceeds will the courage to write things I'm Receiving the first Holy Com­when you find you are standing on go to the Senior Class. 
willing to be responsible for. I must munion · the living symbol of the holy ground. I loved the holiness of have learned something in my presence ofChrist -can be over­that Jewish home where I ate honey •ART lifetime. God hasn't finished with whelming for a convert. It should cake with the Rabbi from Israel, also Opening on Sunday will be the exhibit "John Singer Sargent: 
me yet. In a year or two, I may be as be even more humbling to believe a guest, celebrating theJewish New Drawings from the Corcoran Gallery of Art." Probably the most fa­smart as my friend. that you have some special grasp on Year with families ofthe chosen mous American painter at the time of his death in 1925,John Singer 
I love the Catholic Church so the truth. Others chase pale race whom God promised to keep Sargent was also a prolific draftsman. The exhibition of 58 drawings much that I read theology books as shadows, and deceive themselves in the palm ofHis hand. and two watercolors was selected from the Corcoran's Sargent col­though they were love letters, but I on illusions and errors. You are The most important lesson I have lection of I05 works on paper. The display will remain on view at the 
have learned you can't let the privileged as a Catholic to have an learned is that grace is everywhere. ~ite until Nov. 4. Church do all your thinking for you, insight into the ground-plan of Maybe thirty years ofbeing a priest The exhibition, "Robert Arneson: Masks and Portraits," organized ifyou wish to be consistent. My creation as it exists in the mind of have turned me into a liberal fool. If by Landfall Press, Inc. of Chicago continues this weekend and will Protestant father pointed out the Almighty God. Sacraments, to be so, it would have been a waste of continue until Oct. 28. Arneson, best known for his funk ceramic 
errors ofCatholics. I argued bitterly efficacious, require an act offaith, a time to live so long. I tell my friend: sculpture, has added drawing and printmaking to his repertoire and 
with my father over points of trust that the visible bread and No matter how sure you think you this exhibit. The thirty pieces on display, all self-portraits, give in­doctrine. I had talked with priests wine, oil and wine, are in the ser­are, stay humble, because God sight into the artist's personality and humor. trained on infallible encyclicals, and vice ofredemptive power. Religi­hasn't finished with you yet. He The exhibition "Andre Kertesz: Form and Feeling," which began so I felt I was better informed that ous truth brightens the mind and answers, "Be quiet with the non­on Aug. 26, continues at the Snite Museum and will continue 
my father. Ten years after I was warms the heart in a direct way, as sense." He reminds me ofthe harm through Oct. 20. There are eighty-eight photographs in this ordained, Vatican II came along. In though one had suddenly been zealots do in the name ofGod. Bad retrospective collection spanning 1914-1972. The display is on loan the time since then, I have dis­anointed as a prophet. The enthusi­people do much more harm than from the Hallmark Photographic Collection and is touring the na­covered that on some very basic asm ofprophets makes them dan­zealots, but they do it consciously, tion. Hours at the Museum are 10 to 4 Tuesday through Friday; 1 to 4 points, my father was smarter than gerous: reckless with zeal, when not caring. More things are wrought on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8. 
theJesuits who gave me religious they should be tender with the by honey and pr.tyer than this instructions. TheJesuits were good also-rans. Crusades and inquisitions world dreams of. 
•TIIEATRE 
Opening this weekend at the O'Laughlin Auditorium of Saint Mary's is the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre presentation of"The Hot House" by Harold Pinter. Performances will be tonight and to·
Sprinklers dampen lifestyle 
morrow night at 8. General admission will be $3 and admission for ND/SMC community will be 12. 50. All seats reserved, call 284-4626. 
tions. Synchronized sprinklers are a mechanisms. Some make full turns, •DANCE
by K. Shannon 
secret device which provide ul­others three-quarter turns, and still joe "King" Carasco and The Crowns will highlight a post-game timate delight to the workers; stu­others, only half-turns. By propor­dance and party tomorrow night at 11 in the Stepan Center. Tickets
features staff writer 
E
dents have no choice but to get tionately distributing these devices will be 13 at the door and 12.50 in advance. Advance tickets may be very student at Notre Dame wet. Dodging one sprinkler always around campus, students will never urchascd at the Record Store in LaFortune and in the dining halls. shares at least one fear. This fear seem to send the student smack know which ones to avoid. 1be dance is being sponsored by the Student Activities Board in does not concern academic or into another one·· with a rude The Notre Dame sprinkler conjunction with WVFI. social life, but is instilled by the awakening. placers obviously possess talents "efficient" Notre Dame sprinkler Timing of the sprinkler system is unknown to the rest ofthe world. I •MASS system. also important. The object is to realize that the lawns DO need The celebrants for masses at Sacred Heart Church this weekend 
Yes, the sprinkler system at Notre ensure that the maximum number water, yet I must admit, I applauded ill be: Dame has sent shivers up and down ofstudents suffer. (The workers last year when a student stuck a Father David Schlaver at 5:15 Saturday night vigil). the spines ofone and all; students keep a running total.) The best sprinkler in a trash can near South Fatherjohn Gerber at 9 a.m. lie awake at night thinking ofways times to run the sprinklers are Dining Hall. Perhaps it did even Father Oliver Williams at 10:30. to avoid the dreaded devices. Un­lunchtime and busy classtimes. more good there ... Father DanielJenky at 12: 1 5. fortunarely, the "lawn care profes­(And, since this is the "designated" sionals" have mastered the worker lunch hour, as opposed to sprinkler system so well that stu­the "unofficial" morning breaks, the dents will never be safe. workers can enjoy some entertain­
The sprinkler system at Notre ment while eating.) 
Carrasco hits Notre Dame 
Dame serves not only to water Another good time to get out the lawns but to water students, as well. sprinklers is when there is rain in Undoubtedly this is where the hot the forecast. The Notre Dame lawn Border. To the group's credit, one
by Paul Mclean 
water goes in the mornings. (After workers listen to the weather for might also note that Michael jack­
features staffwriter
all, isn't it important that the grass days in advance in order to plan this son provided back-up vocals on its receive a nice warm spray?) Conse­special treat. Students may take album Synapse Lapse and, further, quently, by the time the students raincoats and think they are safe New music comes to Notre ence, prances about on the tops of that the band opened for the Go­have had a lukewarm shower, the from the impending rain, but alas, Dame! This Saturday, October speakers or as far as his cordless Go's on their recent international grass has received enough hot the students are unaware ofwhat 6,joe King Carrasco and the guitar allows, and appears in full tour. water and is ready for the cold lies in store for them. Sprinklers Crowns make an appearance at regal attire (complete with massive The Oct. 6 concert is sponsored spray. This is also about the time spread across campus wait for the Stepan following the Miami game. crown and cape, ofcourse) · by the N.D. Activities Board which the students leave the dorm. first students to emerge from the The four member band heralds demands the onlooker's attention. is supporting efforts to bring pro­
Placement is the key for all dorms, ready to spray them before from Texas and brings with it a Although not yet attaining an gressive musical acts to the campus. sprinklers. The lawn workers pos­the rain even comes. brand of music variously labeled excessive and inclusive U.S. follow­Tickets for the event sell for 12.50 sess detailed maps ofcampus The workers' final effort to "Tex-Mex," "trash rock," "Jalapena ing, to the ire ofloving Texan fans, in advance and S3.SO at the door. depicting the best spots for drench the students derives from jam," and "down home rock'n'roll." Joe King and the the Crowns have Advance sales will be held in the sprinklers. Obvi':>usly, the most sprinkler variety. Notre Dame The explosive stage presence of had success in Europe (They dining halls and at the Student effective places are near sidewalks, boasts many types ofsprinklers, old Carrasco -who performs acrobatic released another album in England Union Record Store. For more student paths, and busy intersec-and new, with a variety of turning leaps from the stage into the audi-last month.) and South-of-the-information call239-7757. 

The Observer Friday, October 5, 1984-page 16 
7"/.lt• Ohsl.'rt't'r :'IOotrt· l>aml' otflu.:. lm:atl·d on thl· third floor oi· l.aFortunt· Studnll Center. accept~ l'lassilinl advcrti~ing from<) a.m. until ·t p.m. \londay throu~h Frida~ The Ohsen•er Saini \lary·., oft1n:. lol·atnl on the third tloor of llaAAar Colkge Ct·ntt·r. an't'pt~ dassitkds from 11:50 p.m. until 5 p.m., \lon· dav though f'riday. lkalllint· for nt·xt-da\ l'lassilinls is :'1 p m. All das~ifinb mu~t ht· prepaid. l'itht·r in pt·r~on or hv mail. <:hargl· i~ Io <.Tnb pt·r fin: t·harac
Classifieds 
ll'rs ·r day. 

Need Ride To FL for Break, call Karen OH GOD. do I need Miami tickets!Oh, yes DELICIOUS SANDWICHES You'II all besorry when I'm dead and gone JOE KING! JOE KING! JOE KING CAR· 272-0816. I do! I need Miami tickets! Like, I really DELIVERED CALL THE YELLOW SUB­and all this guilt will be on your head. Wee RASCO! My prayers have been an­NOTICES J need Miami tickets! Oh, yes! Uke never MARINE 272-4453 MON-THU 8-t1 PM Thomas swered' Real music comes to NO! Part-time Night Bartender/Waitress Near before! Miami tickets' Aaaaaaahhhh! FRI-SAT 8PM-1 AM 
N.D. call289-0186 Plene fulfill Greg'alnlllltl8ble appetite Frank, Care to go to Denny's again. I un­Cold-hearted orb that rules the night, at2532. TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL derstand they have good bagels. You Removes the color from our sight : Red is 
Ate you in need of FINANCIAL AID? WANTED! NEEDED! ETC! 3 Tix lor So. STEVE AT 11803. never know you could have fun. grey and yellow white. But we decide
Leadershtp Training! Challenge' Ad­carolina. student or GA call Lou 287-6262 which is right and which is an illusion.
venture' SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob 
NOW! SOUTH CAPIOUNA LARRY BURKE: Just because you went DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE Moody Btu•
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the 
Will trade 3 end zone GA's to Missouri, GRACE HALL PARTY ROOM FRIDAYROTC Building. (239;6264! 
Wanted: 2 or 3 GA tix lor the Air Force and 2 student tickets doesn't mean you have to be a tiger. OCT.S 9:30 TO 1:30 St ADMISSION MITZEL DEAD game. Cal13359. lor 3 respec:teble GA's. DANCEDANCEDANCEDANCE
Ate you in need of FINANCIAL AID? 4278
Leadership Training' Challenge' Ad­LISA!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! It seems like 
HELP! Oo you have hotel reservations for Need 2 MIAMI TIX-Student or G.A. Call WASHINGTON DC AREA BUS FOR
venture' SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob just yesterday you -e only 20. Today
this Saturday night that you are not using? Heather-2594 BREAK
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the FALL SIGN-UPS: TUESDAY, you're 21! Now you cen go to the bars 
ROTC Building. (239-6264) I need a roorn anywhere in the South OCT. 9 6:30-8:00 PM. 2ND FLOOR whenever you want (without sweating it)! 
Bend area. You can be a great help. CampusViewSweatshirts!2720816. LAFORTUNE $60 ROUND-TRIP 
I'll even buy you your first drink!! Love,Please call Kevin at 2153.
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 Your Younger Brother 
Need 4 Miami Tix! GA's. Call Kathy,3781. 
B. Kosar • a dead OB HEAD START 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
I wouldn't want to tell anyone this, but...
Hurricanes mull perish !! Kosar is a dead HEAD START Help disadvantaged pre­
I give GREAT back massages. My price is HELP! I really, really need 3 Miami GA's.ll someone in the Progressive Music Club 
man!! schoolers 1 morning mon.-fri. MeetingFOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A 
twoS. Carolina or two Penn State GA tick· you've got some. call Eric 3654. actually listens to MENUDO!!! Don't
10/97:00 Hegg.r
BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272· 
ets. Call1266, and we'll talk business. worry, I won't give any names, Mary. 
LET'S MAKE A DEAL!
1858 Need 2 MIAMI TIX-Student or G.A. Call I will give you three (3!) student tickets to Teresa and Bridget, Just remember,
PART· TIME WORK IN TELEPHONE Heather 2594 4B WIMPS DEAD
the Penn State game. plua extra for your "Someday, we'll look back on this, and it EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME 
SALES. DOWNTOWN LOCATION. ... 
trouble, if you will give me three (3!) GA's will all seem Iunny.'' Staph CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
CALL288-2514 FROM9A.M T08 P.M. Need Miami ticket-student or G.A. Call 
to the Penn State game. Think about it. Miriam4174 
Then call Mary at 1333. HAPPY BIRTHDAY LISA!! Mom left the MAKE YOUR OWN WINE NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND LEAVING club. Dad left the goff course. Marya left YES YES It's true !! Those wild women at
U-pic French Hybrid Wine Grapes 20-25 ON 10/t9. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. I REALLY NEED 3 TICKETS FOR THE YOU know lt'a Rockln Joe King, the telephone. We all left the house to be Pasquerilla East hii'Je invited MENUDO
cents per lb. Apples-Pears-Concords. 
PLEASE CALL MIKE AT t688 IF ABLE 
AIR FORCE GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP, doncha Beav? Saturday, Oc:t. 6 at with you on your 21st. Have a great day to play at their next formal !!!'!!!! 
LEMON CREEK FARMS. US31-1 mi. N. 
TO HELP. 
PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT 272-6278. 
Srep.n (lifter the Ml•ml g~~me)l Only and a super year! Love you a lot, Mom, ·····································& 5 mi. W of Berrien Springs, Mi. on 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!!!!! AITENTION PIGNAPPERS We're vviri~·
$2.50 In Mlvanc:e, or $3.50 at the door. Dad, and Marya Lemon Crk. Rd. 616-471·1321. 
ATTENTION 
R..t mualc: Ia here et ND! ing to talk. Just please don't harm the IN DIRE NEED OF A MIAMI STUDENT pigs. The Men of 408 TIX. PLEASE CALL SCOTI AT 3281. 
The Bangl• •re coming! The Banglea HEY DETROITERS COME WATCH THE 
TYPING Need one PENN STATE GA or Student 
are coming! JANE Glad to seeyou back at SMC! US
TIGERS CLINCH THE PENNANT
Jackie Boggs ticket. Buy or trade. Call Brian 1930 YO! NEED TWO TIX FOR AIR-FORCE TONIGHT AT THE FARLEY HALL
684-8793 GAME!! PLEASE'!! CALL 1871 
Welcome to Notre Dame, Wolfparents. PARTY ROOM. GAME TIME 7:25 CUES. Love, Wolfpup CALL PATII4033
NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S TOGETHER­C.thle, Happy, h•ppy 21at birthday to Will type your papers, manuscripts, etc. HELP ME!I need 2 Miami GAs CALL GEORGE 2n-6464 my fllvorlte F•rtey gal. Have • terrific Fast and accurate. Reasonable rates. badiPfease call Mike 4511. day. Love, your little 81a, Beth Pick up and drop off service. CaH Mary MIAMI STUDENT TICKET yyyPLEASEyyy RIDE OFFERED fall break Eaat Cout· 234-5545. RIDE NEEDED TO DENVER FOR FALL NEEDED VERY BADLY!! GINA:3712 New Hamp8hlre or New York, &o.ton "HARRY" WANTS EVERYONE TO Christopher, You don't even deserve 
BREAK. ANNE 284-5076 THANKS!I! Share Uauala. C.ll Lou et 2681. SING: "TAKE ME OUT TO THE BAL· what we have to offer. Thanks for nothing. Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? LGAME" 4t4 Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­GOING TO CINCI, OH. FOR FALL NEED TWO MIAMI STUDENTTIX: CALL SENIORS! Interested in a post-graduate venture' SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob BREAK? A FRIEND AND MYSELF DAN 239-7666 DAYS; 233-6254 eves volunteer expenence abroad? Check out MR. CARAY HAS REQUESTED THIS Today is Peggy Prosser's 20th birthday. Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE. WILL the Holy Cross Associates Program in FOR THE END OF THE THIRD OUAR· For those who know about her reputation, ROTC Building. (239-6264) SHARE EXPENSES IF LEAVING Need two tickets to MIAMI game student Chile. See Mary Ann Roemer at Center TEA. or those who want to learn how she 
AFTER S.CAROLINA GAME ON or GA --phone 1250 for Social Concerns Application deadline earned it, she is accepting congrats and Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? 20TH,CALL ED-1818 Nov.1. solicitations at 284-4183. Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­HELP! NEED 4 PENN STATE TIX! CALL venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob NOT AIR FORCE . NO NOT EVEN Christo, 00, and Danny Mo are corning! YOU AND I, WE BELONG TOGETHER,
SUE3843 Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the PENN STATE BUT SOUTH CAROLINA NO ONE EVER SAID WE'D HAVE AN ROTC Building. (239-6264) NEED TICKETS DESPARATELY. CALL Syndicate is after me for 3 Miami tickets. ANN MURPHY turns 20 in 20 days! EASY TIME ... OH WELL. 3071 ASK FOR DAN. call Chris 3055. Gentlemen start your engines. BATTLESHIP SCORES!!! EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 I need 2·5 G.A.'s lor the SOUTH Debbie Buchanan-great job on the room! MOOSE2 
WHAT CAN YOU DO WHEN YOU'RE TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. CAROLINA game. Call Steve at 283-How 'bout next week? 
FOR SALE 
SOUGHT AFTER? 2943 alter 11 p.m. Bill thanks lor the brownies, they -e JOEMAN5 fantastic-tess baby 
HELP! TWO G.A.'S NEEDED FOR MIAMI GAME. SAVE ME AND CALL 
VIDEO DANCE VIDEO DANCE VIDEO WELCOME TO NO MJ AND STEVEN! 
DANCE FRIDAY 9-2 CHAUTAOUA Love, Sis and her Wombies 
78 VOLVO WAGON 4-SPEED RON3528 tess baby lives forever 
FEATURING THE BEST IN DANCE 
OVERDRIVE,FUEL·INJECTED.NEW BLESS YOU BOYS Come watch the
VIDEOS Sponsored by the Progressive To My 3 Adopted Freshmen, My Terrific 
TIRES;54000 MILES GOOD NEED: 4 MIAMI GA'S BAD! JOHN 3467 Tom and Chris Tigers on their way to the World Series
Mu,;c Club VIDEO DANCE is free for club WOMBlES. and Lori B. Sue; Thank you
CONDITION.$4200.282·1594. We simply can't wait to have a discerning, Farley Hall Party Room Friday, Oct. 5
members, $1 for general public lor remembering 10/4. ERIN NEED 1 MIAMI STUDENT eventng with y'all' Be sure to wear your Game time 7:25 Cues. call Patti 4033 
FOR SALE-2 MIAMI TIX. BEST OFFER, TICKET.PAUL,236t best bandana! See you at BP's SYRGOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,5511 • 
CALL TOM 1808 tonight'! GO GET 'EM TIGERS Watch the Tigers
$50,553/YEAR. NOW HIRING. YOUR MARIEL... YOU'RE ALWAYS ON MY AREA. CALL 805-e87-41000 EXT. R-DON'T SELL ME YOUR TROJAN tlc:k­MIND MIND MINDAGE
-Sz&C roll over the Royals. Farley Hall Party I HAVE 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS. I NEED eta. I need your PENN STATE G.A.a. Room Friday Game time 7:25 ??? call
9834. 2 MIAMI TICKETS. LET'S MAKE A caN Nick at 1580. Patti4033 ADMIRERER! ME...LC.
CALL FROM TRADE. CALL JIM AT 4357. SHE'S ALWAYS BEEN A LIVE
TYPING SERVICE P.W. 277-6045 ········ I'LL SELL MY TROJAN'S In order to ONE,SOON SHE'LL BE LEGAl'This THE WAVE THE BLEACHERS LESS FOR SALE PIONEER 5)(450 STEREO buy S.C. G.A.a. c.ll Berry et 3815. SUNDAY CATHIE LOHMULLER tums FILLING...TASTES GREAT TIGERS
PICKUP AND DEUVERY Bernie Kosar, everyone knows that there RECEIVER, ALSO PIONEER PROJECT 21 !Stop by 224 FARLEY to bestow b-day OVER THE ROYALS FRIDAY FARLEY 
ain't no hurricanes in South Bend !!!!! 100 STEREO SPEAKERS, ALSO WANTED 4 TICKETS FOR AIR FORCE hugs and kisses HALL PARTY ROOM TYPING-EXCEPTIONAL. 2n-2s12 SHARP GF9494 GHETTO-BLASTER GAME. WILL PAY CALL COLLECT, NO CREW NO CREW NO CREW NO CALL277-Qt91 ELKHART 264-176 t FOOD' Pr~ame CAMBODIAN EGG 
CREW NO CREW HEY THIS IS DICKY ROLLS at the Center lor SOCial CON­
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO GREEN SAYING KICK BUTI AT THE TYPING. CALL: 287-5162. 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. BEST OFFER BY I neecl2 AIR FORCE student or G.A. tick­CERNS, SAT. 3-6:30. STOP BY' HEAD OF THE B.H. Hey, how are YOU 
and the LORD said: 'The cry of SODOM 
AND GOMORPIHA is multiplied, and !heir
t0/t1. CALL JANET AT 4376 
ets. Call Tricia 2939 sin is become exceedingly grievous. 1will Joe F. Brunetti? GET COORS DRAGON 
Pm CLUB BUS SIG~UPS: Monday
Wordprocessing and Typing. 272-8827 spare the whole place for their sake if 1find CREW!!! 
For Sale: 1 MIAMI STUD TIX,best of· Need 4 GA'a for PENN STATE. call Oct. 8 in the LaFortune Uttle Theater (6-7 in Sodom 50 jus: on Saturday.' GENESIS 
fer ,call3052 pm)... SPECIAL REDUCED RATES!!!!!
Kevin at 287-6262. 18:20 PLEASE HELP THE BAD BOYS STEVE DEMARTINO FOR UMOC !! ' 
$40.00 round trip, $28.00 one way. 
FROM BOSTON SAVE NOTRE DAME, START SAVING YOUR PENNIES! 
FOR SALE: 4 MIAMI GAs serious offers MIAMI GAS FOR SALE.2726306 Busses will leave Saturday, Oct. 20th 
BECAUSE YOU KNOW THERE AIN'T only call2333 (after the game). INFORMAL INTERVIEWS 
II demand is strong 
NEVER BEEN A HURRICANE IN 
NEED 3 S. CAROLINA GA'S PLEASE!! enough, we will also sponsor a bus to DICKINSON SCHOOL OF LAW
SOUTH BEND! SATURDAY 1:00PM 
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI Student ticket. TOODX1688. depart on Friday. October 19th. Any ques­
LOST/FOUND I 
Mon Oct. 8 from 10:30-12:30 BLACKOUT AT SODOM AND GOMOR­
a.toff•. 11305 tions call Tom Farnan at 1650. RHA Sign up outside of 101 O'Shaugnessey 
Need Miami tix stu. or G.A. 284-5087 Sponsored by NO Pre-Law Society OBSERVER STAFF FORUM
REWARD • LOST-MEN'S GOLD N.D. DUNK TANK THIS FRIDAY IN FRONT
MONDAY, 7P.M.
CLASS RING BLUE STONE INSCRIP· $$$NEED MANY PENN STATE TIX. OF DILLON ALL PROCEEDS GO TO
NEW ORLEANS ROOM
TION DJH '85 -IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CALL KEVIN x2092. THE UNITED WAY DUNK YOUR FA­JOHN JANICKI: WE WANT YOU
TICKETS (acroea from Studen1 Actlvltl• NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
DAN AT 234·9515 OR 283·3429. VORITE CAMPUS CELEBRITY DIGGER My two innocent sisters from West (by office on 1at fiC?OJ L8Fortune) 
PHELPS AT 4:00!1!!!! LOST: Set of Keys on a "MY KEYS" Key God) Virginia are coming in lor the South 
ring. If found please cell272-0816 WILL PAY for 4-6 Penn State GA's. Pat Cerollna game and they'll be hear1broken SEX SEX SEX DUNK DIGGER ON FRIDAY AT 4:00 IN DEAR S.A.and M, A simple solution to 1155. if they can't get tickets. I'll need two stu­BESIDES THAT I NEED 2 PENN ST. FRONT OF DILLON FOR THE UNITED 
your roommate troubles IS to keep CHRIS 
LOST; IF ANYONE HAPPENED TO dent tix, please. c.H ZEKE at 2045. WAY DUNK TANK DILLON
GA'S. IF YOU CAN SUPPLY EITHER, DILLON 
outside. There are many outdoor activi­PICK UP A JEAN JACKET THAT DOES NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL JOHN AT 2246 CALLJOHND.1841. 
DUNK TANK DILLON DUNK TANK DIL· ties, i.e. baseball games, luaus. or tennis. 
NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S RALPH 1486
NOT BELONG TO THEM OR KNOWS OR 1296. LON DUNK TANK If this fails, a visit to Mercyhurst could THE WHEREABOUTS OF ONE THAT NO UONEL RITCHIE .. NO TWISTED 
serve as a remedy. II even this severe WAS LOST AT THE HOTEL CONTINEN· Need Miami Tix! Will pay big bucks! Call 6 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE Best Offer Eric SISTER.. NO WAYNE NEW· Notre Dame-where men are men and treatment fails. GET HER TO A NUN­TAL IN CHICAGO DURING THE 234-5545. endad 1528 TON.. GUARANTEED. Progreulve sheep (we won't mention any names) are NERY!! Signed: Dr. Ruth WATCHING OF THE NOTRE DAME Mu81c p,_..: A VIDEO DANCE nervous. LAST SATURDAY PLEASE CALL WANTED! WANTED! WANTED! I NEED 1 MIAMI GA-CALL MIKE 1723 Frld8y, •2. Chmuqua VIDEO DANCE 
To the 3 Generic Men of Keenan 4West­WARD AT 277-4568. 18 FREE fOI' PMC Membera,$1 Genenll Boy, just when you think you know some­Aiways remember,it's not whether you Need 4 G.A. tlcketa to the South HELP! NEED 3 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. Public body. he goes and turns 22 without telling win or lose but how much beer you 
LOST: (1) MICROECONOMICS carolina tOOibell game on October 20. ALLISON 3397 anyone. That's right John Murphy we're drink. Don't forget to bring your wrestling TEXTBOOK BY RUFFIN & GREGORY Willing to 1111 .,.,_of I.B.M. etoclc to Progreealve Mu.tc Membera: Did you talking about you. Well any -y SKID mats on Sunday and be prepared to be and (2) MICRO-ECONOMICS finance deal. call MMt w. at 283-2045 FOR SALE: MIAMI STUDENT TIX CALL geta copy of the New81etter? "not, call ROW SEZ HAPPY (LATE) BIRTHDAY "pinned"! Love The Alaskan Polar Smas­HOMEWORK PAPERS. If you have them or2)11.5313. 717-7S70 Keith et 3345. O.C. ~cen get JOHN MURPHY!!! hers P.S.You wanna 111ve what mascu­or find them please cal Frank at 3329 or their coplee at Info cleO, 1at floor hneimage? bring them to 325 Keenan Hall. I NEED IIAMI a ANY HOME GAME NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S. CALL 3578 I'M LaFortune Skid Row.... Just a fun bunch of guys.
GAS. 272-aoe STEVE 
All Freehman, Sophomores. Juniors and LOST: MY YOUTHFUL ENTHUSIASM. RAY and PETE SERIAL 4 Go NO MEN's CREW!!!! GO lor itthis S.t­Seniors: Come help make posters lor the PLEASE RETURN. AIR FORCE TIX need GA's or stud call Need 2 PENN STATE ticketa.WiH pay top So what did you guys do last WMkend? urday at the HEAD OF THE DES Miami v NO dollar.Cefl SEAN at4644. 
MOINES!!!!! IRISH CREW 1!! Beat the FOUND: key lor room 222. call 4203 to South Bend high school gtrta? Don't you DRAGONI! your own sheet paint wiN be pro­
claim your key. NEED MIAMI TIX!! Keith 4216 SEX SEX SEX (catch your eye?) Need 3 know you can get in trouble lor that kind of 
Torn And why do you have this fascination with game...STEPAN...TODAY...3:30...bring 
vided...SHOW YOUR NO SPIRIT!!!!!!!! GA AlA FORCE TICKS call Jean Jean stuff? Ray, the odds of you staying in 
Go NO MEN's CREW!!! Go for it in DES the sex machine SMC 4363 school are improving, but the odds of your
FOUND: Grey NO SW118tahirt at Stepan HELP!!! NEED 2 SO.Carolina GA's '.IDINES!!!! FRANK's BOAT will prevail!!! after wednesday Ultimate Club practice. Please call PAUL: 4006 brain surviving are getting worse. Go to KEVIN QUINN don't forget the SUGAR­HOC>Hoo-HOO.HOOTERI call 232-()66() • ask lor John T. Another DO YOU HAVE 6 MIAMI GA's TO­the SYR, you total loser. LESS WEDNESDAY headband'!! onelor Mindy! I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE S. GETHER?DO YOU WANT TO BECOME 
CAROLINA GAME DESPERATELY !!! IRISH CREW thiS Saturday at the HEADA MILLIONAIRE I'M TALKING AMPLE HB'Je you hugged a SKIDDER today? 
LOST ROOM KEY AND MAIL KEY ON $$$$$ WiU Pay Well $$$$$ Call Cliff at COMPENSATION.WILL SETTLE FOR 4 oflhe----HOLE!!!SHORTHEAVYT. LEATHER TAB KEYRING. IM LOCKED 4511 NOW! TOGETHER CALL JAMES 1022.YOU OBSERVER STAFF FORUM LIGHT Boat wiH do it!!! Tim Smith EAS­
.........................................,....................... 
OUT OF MY ROOM AND MY MAILBOX ······· ......... -···· . ··········· HAVE TIX,I HAVE MONEY .LET'S TALK All Obeerv• wn..,., edltcn, photog­SSSSeeee DOWN!!!! Le Keough here OUR FAVORITE MEXICAN ROMER IS 
IS STUFFED. HELP ED 1153 PLEASE!! This the first and only chance rephera, production people, etc:. are come those SILVER BULLETS!!! FiN the HAVING A BIRTHDAY ON SUNDAY for my parents to see a Notre Dame fool· Will trade my AirF or SC GAs lor PA ST lnvtt.d to The Obaerver'e at8ff forum van!!! COME TO THE COMMONS TO WISH ball game (I'm a senior). I need tix for the tix-ROB 1739 on Monday, 7 p.m. In the New Orteens JEFF(CHIEF RUN-AMOK)MOFW.ES A 
Miami game. Kathleen x3605. Thanks. Room on the flrat floor of UFortune. Stop complaining .Franny, you got your NICE DAY. Toplca of diKUulon lndude The personaL .HFPJ SEND A SCHI.EPPER TO THE MIAMI Obaerv•'• public lmege, qu8lfty of our moralea is a bum and he owes us money­
WANTED 
GAME: Ml pay big bucks for one lousy product and efficiency In producing FREE answers to questions. Call Guru at roommates
PERSONALS
ticket. Cllll JeH Chou at 3347. SPECIAL the p..,er .-ctt night. Lee your t573. BONUS: ONE FREE AIDE ON THE L· opiniOM be known. AMATEUR NIGHT· OCT 9, TUESDAY TRAIN. AnnM.uro 
WANTED: Female vocaliSt/guitarist lor PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234· COME DANCE ON THE FIELDHOUSE How about dinner next Thursday AMATUER NIGHT· OCT. 9 TUESDAY taming banct Looking for the next TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL 0363. 24 hoor holline....,ree pregnancy test MALL FRIDAY NIGHT--EVERYONE (10/11)? Let me know' Torn Chriale Hynde. Call2651. STEVE AT11103. available. WOMENS CARE CENTER WILL BE THERE!!' AMATUER NIGHT-OCT. 9 TUESDAY 

~......... .:;,.,. ,... ... -· .J"-4 ..................~ ·-~ •••• 

Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame field hockey team beat 
Goshen College, 2-0, yesterday afternoon. Junior halfback Christina Weinmann had both Irish goals as the team evened its season record at 2-2-1. Notre Dame faces Western Michigan this afternoon in Kalamazoo. -The Obseroer 
A beginners archery clinic will be sponsored 
by NVAon October 8, 9 and 11 from 4:15p.m. to 5:30p.m. each day. Deadline to register in person at the NVA office is today. -The Obseroer 
The ND Water Polo Club wm play host to its 
annual fall tournament this weekend. Notre Dame will take on the University ofCincinnati at 7 p.m. tonight, Kenyon College at 1 0 a.m. tomorrow and Ohio State University at 1 p.m. tomorrow. Indiana University also will participate in the tournament. Admission is free. 
-The Obseroer 
The ND Ultimate Frisbee Club wm have practice today at 4:1 5 p.m. Players are to meet in front of Stepan Center. For more information, call 283-1588.-The Obseroer 
The ND lacrosse team will be meeting at noon on Sunday at Cartier Field for team pictures. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby Clubwill take on the club alumni in a game tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the fields behind Stepan Center. All former ruggers and friends are welcome.-The Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will have an intra­club regatta today at 2:30 p.m. at the boathouse. For more information, call Tom Fink at 283-1079. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will take on 
the Purdue Boilermakers today at 5:30 p.m. on Cartier Field. -The Obseroer 
The ND women's cross-country team 
will travel to Anderson College tomorrow to compete against varsity teams from Michigan, Indiana and Kentucky at the Anderson Invita­tional. -The Obsert'er 
~ BEST IN PRIME RIB
::Aaostino 's 
STEAKS, SEAFOOD

l'hl§tle 

Call for Reservations 
233-4021 232-2494 
Beat the after game rush, eat early! 
Opening at 3 p.m., day of Miami Game 602 S. Walnut take Eddy to Sample, North on Walnut 
Friday, October 5, 1984 -page 17 
St. Francis, IUPU-Ft. Wayne 
Saint Mary's tennis team wins two 
By PAM CUSICK 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team once again proved its worth in yesterday's dual matches against St. Francis and Indiana University/Purdue Univer­sity at Fort Wayne with 9-0, 8-l vic­tories, respectively. These two wins should serve to increase the players' level of confidence going into the Irish Invitational this weekend at Notre Dame. 
Against St. Francis, senior Debbie Laverie led the Belles at number-one singles, beating Tracy Johnson, 6-3, 6-4, while Mary Carol Hall, a sopho­more, defeated Pam Bergeron in their number-two match, 6-2, 6-1. Number-three singles player Caroline Zern shut out Darleen Daly, 6-0, 6-0, and freshman Susie Craig, at the number-four spot, defeated Amy Koomler, 6-0,6-2. 
Junior Kim Kaegi beat Jill Arnold, 6-3, 6-2, at number-five singles, and 
Kim  Drahota  defeated  Mary  
Zehringer, 6-3, 6 -1.  
The  Belles  continued  their  

domination in doubles competition as Laverie and senior Renee Yung came back to win against the first doubles team of Johnson and Ber­geron, 1-6, 6-1, 6-3. Number-two doubles partners Kate McDevitt and Karie Casey overcame Darleen Daley and Amy Koomler by 7-6, 6-2 scores, while Craig and Kaegi at number-three easily topped Arnold and Zehringer, 6-1, 6-2. 
In the IUPU-Ft. Wayne match, Laverie again led Saint Mary's from her number-one singles position, winning, 6-2,6-2, against Bab Spidel. Meanwhile, Hall dominated Marla Christen, 6·1, 6-2, at number-two, as Zern was easily putting Reth Clark away at number-three, 6-0, 6-2. 
Craig beat Manju Usman, 6-0, 6-1, at number-four and Yung was able to come out of a close two-set battle at number-five with a 7-5, 6-4 victory. Kaegi's opponent, Sara Yaggy, took her to three sets before she came away with a 7-5, 3-6, 6-4 win at number-six. 
In doubles competition, Laveric and Hall defeated the number-one 


MECHANICAL 
DESIGN (BS/MS ME) 
ANALOG CIRCUIT DESIGN (BS/MS EE) 
DIGITAL LOGIC 
DESIGN (BS/MS EE) 
INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGN (BS/MS EE) 
SOFTWARE 
DEVELOPMENT (BS/MS EE & CS) Data communication protocol 
We've asked our recently hired graduates why they decided on Tellabs. Some of their reasons were: Friendly company atmosphere . . . conception-to-completion project responsibilities . . . state-of-the-art technology . . . team spirit . . . excellent salaries and benefits. 
There's a lot to talk about. If you're an above average achiever seeking challenge and opportunity for your future, contact us. Sign up to talk with Steve Calllsher on campus October 16, 1984 or send your resume/letter to: Steve Calllsher, Tellabs, Inc., 4951 Indiana Avenue, Lisle, IL 60532. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F. 
-rtellabs 
Stress and deflection analysis Heat transfer studies Computer Aided Product Design 
Voice frequency circuit development Active filters • Hybrids Switch capacitor filters 
DSP integrated circuits High speed digital logic Microprocessor logic • Logic simulation 
Custom devices Semi-custom devices Analog & digital devices 
Real time software • C/UNIX Assembly language programming 
team ofSpidel and Christen, 6-3,6-2, as Yung and Zern bettered Clark and Usman, the number-two team, 6-0, 6-1. The number-three pair of Casey and McDevitt lost to Hines and Yaggy, 6-1, 6-2, in the Belles' only setback ofthe day. 
Last weekend, in their own Saint Mary's College Invitational, the Belles played host to a bevy oftalent and placed fifth overall with a 31­point performance. 
Toledo placed first in the invita­tional in front of Marquette and Ball State, with the three scoring 56, 40 and 38, respectively. 
"The concentration and mental effort of the doubles teams were the best performances we've seen in the last two or three years," said Saint Mary's coach John Killeen of his team's play in the invitational. Kil­leen added that the doubles teams also won "proportionately more matches than did the singles" by 
being aggressive and by attacking 
their opponents. 
The Saint Mary's coach also com­
mented that Yung, who reached the 
finals in both her number-five 
singles position and at number-two 
doubles teaming with Zern, should 
be credited with an "outstanding ef. 
fort" for the weekend. Her two 
matches accounted for 12 of the 31 
Saint Mary's team points. 
Tuesday's match with Hillsdale, which the Belles won by a 5-3 score, was "closer than anticipated," said Killeen. The number-two doubles match was called after the first set due to darkness since the outcome of the match had already been decided. 
Killeen now must prepare his wo­men for another weekend ofquality competition as the Belles challenge a talented field in the two-day Notre Dame Irish Invitational, scheduled to begin Sunday at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Saint Mary's volleyball teaiTI sweeps three from Tri-State 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team 
record stands at 9-4 after a convinc­
ing victory over Tri-State on Tues­
day night. The Belles took their 
opponent in three straight games, 
15-3,15-12,15-3. 
Saint Mary's coach Brian Goralski was pleased with the win and noted the joint effort displayed by the team as everyone got a chance to play. 
In game one, Tri-State proved to be no match for Saint Mary's. The visitors could not handle the power­ful serves oftheir host and thus were unable to set up very many offensive plays. Sophomore Mary Dilenschneider led the Belles' attack with six service points. 
In the second game of the match, Tri-State jumped out to an early 5-1 lead. 'lbe score then see-sawed back and forth until it was knotted at 11. 
The Belles, however, remained in 
control of the match. Senior Ann 
Boutton rattled off a couple of kills 
with assists from freshman setter 
Erin Smith. 
Behind the serving of freshman 
Mary Carole Feldman, whose eight 
serves included a couple of aces, 
Saint Mary's took charge early in 
game three. Senior Molly Baker had 
some well-placed hits as outside hit­
ters Kara Tekulve and Jane Reichert 
also fine all-around games. 
Goralski says that his team will be practicing intensely in the next few weeks as it gears up for the latter half ofits schedule, which features some extremely tough competition. 
The Belles begin three week..o; of away matches tonight as they take on both Hillsdale College and Spring Arbor College. Saint Mary's first match of the evening is slated for 7 p.m. 

\ 
! 
The Observer Friday, October 5, 1984-page 18 
~ realized he wanted to apply himself Some new twists? 
to running, and not to tennis. 
\ 
Cannon 
Cannon is capping his career with a fine senior season. In the opening
continuedfrom page 20 
The Wave comes to Notre Dame 
meet of the season, he finished By ERIC SCHEUERMANN across the country. just last night, days, this would not be objec­
However, Cannon feels that this fourth in a time of 24:43.4. He 
The Wave made an appearance in tionable.
year's cross-country team is differ­finished ninth in the National Catho­Sports Writer San Diego at the Cubs-Padres game. And last, but certainly not least,
ent from those in years past. lic Meet with an improved time of The Wave made national television
"Now we are more of a team and 24:20.4. In fact, Cannon feels he is The Wave has finally come to students can vary the t:omplexity of Notre Dame. last weekend when it found its way The Wave performed inside the
take pleasure in our accomplish­running as well or better now than For over four years, Irish fans have to the University of Missouri for the stadium. More than one Wave can
ments as a group," he says. "There is he was last year. 
Mizzou-Irish match-up. circle the stadium at any one time,
a greater respect for each individual The Muskegon, Mich., native gives watched as The Wave has spread on the team, and not just the top much of the credit for his success to from the campus ofthe University of But that one was fixed. A close and they can even go in opposite di­Irish coach joe Piane. Washington to stadiums all over the source was there Friday and caught rections.
seven runners." 
country. Now, Notre Dame fans Tiger fans in the stadium practicing This action has one main purpose
One sign of the emergence of a "Coach Piane is a very special per­son," says Cannon. "He's helped me have joined the rest of the nation, The Wave, trying desparately to get at its end. Judging by their academic
team-concept came in last week's National Catholic Meet. All seven in my transition as a person, and he's standing and sitting in turn to con­it right. records, most ofMiami's players will Notre Dame runners finished within always supportive. He is responsible tribute to this phenomenon. Nevertheless, whether original or certainly have a hard time figuring 
for our team's success. People ac­Most of the campus is enjoying not, The Wave has opened the door out what is going on. One has to feel
39 seconds ofeach other, all placing the newfound stadium entertain­for other new acts of fan participa­especially sorry for the Hurricane
18th or better. As a result of this ef­cept him because they can always communicate with him and thus un­ment. But some people do not share tion. Here are some exciting possi­player with the 524 SAT score; he
fort to run more as a team, Notre derstand what they need to do to this enthusiasm. One fan said he gets bilities. will most definitely be terribly
Dame handily won the meet over some tough competition. become a better runner." tired during the game because of all For starters, on Saturday night confused. Cannon feels that he is a part of Cannon believes the cross­the movement. He wishes lbe Wave students can try something that If none of these strike students as would stop completely, and also would definitely be an Irish original.
that transition from an individually­country program is really beginning especially good ideas, everyone is dominated team to a team which to take off because of the increased wants everyone to stay seated In standing to contribute to The invited to try their own. Wave as it circles the stadium, they
measures accomplishment in what it quality ofrecruits. during the game. Hang ten! Another person, who is a little on could pelt Miami quarterback
does as a group. He says that he has "Our program is getting a greater number of national-class runners. the small side, complained that short Bernie Kosar and his teammates
changed as a person in a way similar to the change in the team. These guys are wholesome and people do not like The Wave be­with rocks and garbage. 
"This year was a new step for me serious runners. I'm impressed by cause they don't feel they t:an con­On second thought, rocks had 
Volley
beause I moved from Alumni Hall to the people coming in and their tribute when everyone else is better not be used (penalties, you Moreau Seminary. My move to dedication," he says. standing. know). Maybe students could get continuedfrom page20 Moreau is a move to people and self­Cannon believes that his running But these complaints are irrele­away with using dining hall rolls. 
lessness," Cannon reflects. career will not end with his gradua­vant. The important point is that a They would probably work just as a moral victory for the Irish because 
The senior claims that his move tion. He thinks his best event could new act of fan participation has well. it showed the team that a confer­has brought many other changes in be the 5,000-meter run because it al­arrived on campus, just as boredom Which brings us to the dining ence championship is within its his life. lows him to utilize his cross-country with the old cheers had reached halls. The Wave was tried at dinner reach. After claiming a win against 
"It's a whole new challenge for me training. Besides running, Cannon new heights. last Saturday, and a food fight was Bowling Green on Tuesday, Wed­as a person," says Cannon. "It has could possibly continue in the semi­It appears as though The Wave is started. Maybe we can combine the nesday's victory indicated that the helped me to focus on how God fits nary or go in other directions. here to stay. Ifso, maybe the conces­best ofboth. Irish can rebound to play a strong in the network of life. It has also Anyone who has followed Notre sion stands can help out those Students might try throwing their match. 
helped to define my Christianity and Dame cross country has seen how people who complain about motion food up in the air this weekend at the "The last two matches showed us how I look at people. Tim Cannon has developed as a run­sickness by starting to sell dining hall in Wave-like fashion. This we can win the tight ones and we 
"Also, the move has made me ner. More importantly, however, Dramamine. could not be classified as a food won't lay down and die," said happy and the people around me these four years at Notre Dame has Of course, The Wave is not an fight, but would instead have to be DeGraff. happier. Overall, it has led to a sense allowed Tim Cannon to develop into original Irish idea. It has been per­called a Food Wave. And since any How realistic that goal is should oflove for what I do." the person he wants to become. formed in almost every stadium variation on The Wave is "in" these be clearer after tonight's match. 
Ironically, it was Cannon's love for tennis that led him to realize his 
running talent. He went to Cranbrook High School in Michigan, a boarding school, in order to play tennis. In the fall of his first year at the school, he entered a cross­country race and won. As a result, he began to run track instead ofplaying tennis. 
His high school accomplishments included being a two-time state mile champion and being ranked in the top 10 for high school runners nationwide in the 1,500 meter run. 
Despite his running accomplish­ments, Cannon tried out for the Notre Dame tennis team his fresh­man year, but failed to make the
~-j 
~-:· grade. He went to cross-country coach joe Piane and asked for a 
~ -~ chance to try out for the team. Piane 
'~ ·, 
kept Cannon on the team and he had
~­
a fine season. At this point, he
~: ;> 
~-} 
' ~ ' l 
f. ; San Diego 
" '· stays alive, 
{. 
l 
~ :: tops Cubs 
r ~ 
~­
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Kevin McReynolds hit a three-run homer and Garry Templeton cracked a two-run double as the San Diego Padres scored a 7-1 victory over the Chicago Cubs last night and stayed alive in the National League Champi­onship Series. 
The Cubs, now with a two-games­to-one lead in the best-of-five series, still need one victory to advance to their first World Series since 1945. 
No team has ever won an NLCS after losing the first two games, but the Padres kept that possibility open with last night's win. 
Trailing 1-0, Templeton's double ignited a three-run fifth inning against Cubs right-hander Dennis Eckersley. The Padres finally had found a chink in the Cubs' pitching · armor, which had held San Diego to only 11 hits and two runs in the two previous playoff games, won by Chicago at home, 13-0 and 4-2. 

McRcynold's homer, his first since Sept. 3, capped a four-run sixth in­ning that put the game away. 


by Harold Pinter 
A fascinating, hilarious play! 
8 p.m. October 5, 6, 11, 12 & 13 Saint Mary's Little Theatre General Public $3.00 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Community $2.50 All seats reserved Box Office: 104-4626 
NOTRe t:f..ME/SNHT" MARYS 
-------·IHEAJRQ___ 
OCTOBER 
October 1st thru
SPECIALS 
November 1st 
C.T.I.,Inc. 1026 Corby Blvd. So. Bend, IN 46617 
MON 25~ Drafts 10 till12 TUES 75~CanBeer 10 till1 WED so~ Drafts ALL NIGHT THURS $1°0 IDlports ALL NIGHT FRI so~ Shots ofKarnikazi ALL NIGHT SAT 50<: shots of Root Beer ALL NIGHT 


~c:»cJl.at~---------------------------------------F-r-id_a.y,_o_c_t_ob_e_r_s_,_l~98~4~-~p~a~g~e~1~9 

Psychochicken 
NO t--iORE EXC.\JS.E.S! 

The Daily Cross"'ord 


Doonesbury 

Bloom County 
ANAIJ...Y.1 7HcY'!<i:: 
A/1... MOVE:IlINTO THE N£:tUOfflC£5 AT7HC 

Garry Trudeau 

Berke Breathed 


The Far Side Gary Larson 
22 Be ill 
26 Satisfies 
27 Grape seeds 
28 Sci. course 
29 Pointer Sisters, e.g. 30 Bring forth lambs 31 -and took notice 
35 Household figure 
37 Gob's term 
38 Din 
39 Hardy heroine 
42 Roundup figures 45 Prepares to shave 49 Defendants in Roman law 
51 Links doodad 59 Chronicle 52 Festoon 60 Pony 53 Wildly 61 Subtle air 
enthusiastic 62 Study hard 54 Alert 63 Brown 55 Principle of seaweed conduct 65 Decimal base 
Thursday's Solution 
Campus 
Friday, Oct. 5 
• 
2 p.m. -Cross Country, Notre Dame Invitational , Burke Golf Course. 

•3:30 
p.m.-Philosophy Colloquium, "Abuse of Epistemological Skeptici~m," Prof. Rick Kirkham, NO, Library Lounge. 

•3:45 
p.m.-Meeting, Notre Dame Spanish Club, Meet in LaFortune Main Lobby , Everyone Welcome. 

•4 
p.m. -Oub Picnic, American Lebanese Club, Green Field , By Senior Alumni Club. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture , "The Fundamentality of the Family," Rex Lee, Solicitor General of the United States, Law School Student Lounge, Sponsored by Thomasj. White Center on Law and Government. 

•7 
p.m.-Pep Rally, Stepan Center. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series , "Wuthering Heights," Annenberg Auditorium . 

•8 
p.m.-Play, "The Hothouse," Saint Mary's Little Theatre:sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre, $2.SO. 

•8 
p.m.-Soccer, NO vs.john Carroll, Cartier Field. 

•8 
p.m.-Volleyball, ND Women vs. St. Louis, ACC Arena(T). 

•9 
p.m. -Go Hawaiian Luau, Chatauqua Ballroom , Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Free. 

•9 
p.m. -2 a.m. -Video Dance, Dance to the Lastest in New Music Videos , Chatauqua , Sponsored by Notre Dame Progressive Musik Club ,$1. 

Saturday, Oct. 6 

•II 
a.m.-Baseball, ND vs. Lewis University ,Jake Kline Field , Doubleheader. 

•6:45 
p.m. -Football , NO vs. Miami , At Notre Dame. 

•8 
p.m. -Play , "The Hothouse," Saint Mary's Little Theatre , Sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre, $2.50. 

•10 
p.m. -lnternadonal Party, Breen Phillips Party Room, Sponsored by International Students Organization, Free. 

Sunday, Oct. 7 

•8 
a.m.-Tennis, NO Women-Irish Invitational, Courtney Courts, ACC. 

• 
1 p.m. -Baseball , NO vs. Glen Oaks Community College ,Jake Kline Field , Doubleheader. 

•I 
-4 p.m.-Opening Art Exbibidon,john Singer Sargent Drawings from the Corcoran Gallery in the Victor Higgins Gallery ofAmerican Art ofthe Snite Museum ofArt, Until November 4. 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Spencer Burleson, Guest Classi­cal Guitarist , Anncnhcrg Auditorium, Sponsored by Dept. of Music. 



© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 1015184 All Rights Reserved 
FRIDAY 
OFF CAMPUS NIGHT! 
Prove you're 0-C and get a free draft 

GO IRISH ... BEAT MIAMI!  
SATURDAY  
OPEN at NOON  Did you know we are famous  
for the Game  for our Nachos?!?  
ALUMNI REUNION  

2 valid forms of ID required 
JOE"~NG"CARRASCO 
Post Game Dance 
PARTY 

TICKETS: 
*Opening Act for the Go-Go's 
$250 in advance 
* OnM.T.V.
$350 at door 
*Sings with Michael Jackson!
available at 
SPONSORED BV SAB WITH WVFI
SAB Record Store 
ACROSS 1 Great party 5 As if 9 Mails 
14 Jai­15 Nimbus 16 Lover, old style 17 Medieval 
contest 
18 Verve 19 Obliterate 20 Begins a trip 23 US1.e.g. 24 -the mark 
25 Pugilist 27 Trails 32 Oahu wreath 33 Concerning 34 Paper quantity 36 Commence 
40 Brace 41 Turkic tribesman 
43 -gin fizz 44 Hassock 46 -Pompilius 
(Sabine king) 47 Hyson and 
oolong 48 Scull 50 Mountain lions 52 Certain soldier 56 Mediocre mark 57 Unrefined 58 Goes to bed 64 Lessen 66 Tortoise1ival 67 Sheer 68 Cheapskate 69 Stravinsky 70 Nuncupative 
71 Idyllic spots 72 Broadway musical 73 Press down 
DOWN 1 Balneation 2 Others: lat. 3 Pungent humor 4 Blows a gasket 5 "Deep in -of 
Texas" 6 Sound in body 7 Winged 8 Like a -bricks 9 Promises 
10 Above to a bard 11 Brainy 12 Savor 13 Express 
derision 21 Tugboat 

~----~--~------------------~---------.~------------~----------------~~~------~--~~--------~------~~~--------~­

'' 


Senior Tim Cannon leads the Irish cross-country team Into the Notre Dame Invitational this afternoon at 2:00 on the Burke Memu.-.:"' GolfCourse. A preview ofthe meetas well as a profile of Cannon can befound below. 
ND Invitational 
Irish play host to 45-team field today 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame cross-country team competes today in the Notre Dame Invitational at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The 45-team field, which is split into two divisions, begins the five-mile race at 2 p.m. 
The Irish will be going after their third straight meet champion­ship of the year. In the young season, the team has already won the National Catholic Meet as well as a tough five-team meet. As a result of its impressive start, Notre Dame is ranked 18th this week in a poll of national coaches. 
However, the Irish will be heavily challenged for today's meet championship. Among the teams entered in the field is Michigan, the 12th-ranked team in the country and one that Irish head coach Joe Piane feels is extremely tough. Illinois State, a team which received honorable mention in the national poll, is also entered, along with tough Division I schools like Bradley, Ohio State, Eastern Michigan and Western Michigan. 
"lbe Notre Dame Invitational is the oldest and largest intercol­legiate cross-country meet in the nation. The meet was started by Alex Wilson, a former Irish cross country coach, in 1953 and has grown to be one of the best meets in the country. 
The top 18 teams in the field, based on performance in last year's meet, race at 2 p.m. The other 27 teams in the field begin racing at 4 
p.m. Additionally, each college is bringing three extra men and those runners will race in an open collegiate race at 3 p.m. 
The Irish, along with Michigan and Illinois State, should be the favorites. This is the best field Notre Dame has run against this year, however, so the meet should be an accurate indicator of the team's strength. 
Changes in Tim Cannon's life parallel those of team 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
Three-time cross-country monogram winner Tim Cannon returns to Notre Dame for the final year of an already impressive career. During these four years, the Irish cross-country team has undergone changes that parallel changes in Tim Cannon's personal life. 
Cannon explains that during his first few years at Notre Dame the cross-country team was more individually focused. The individual would stand out and he recognized, instead ofthe team and its group accompli1'hments. 
Tim Cannon was one of those individual runners who stood out. As a freshman, he was coming off a great high school career and was one of only three Irish freshmen to earn a monogram. His sopho­more year, he ran an excellent race in finishing second to Big Ten Conference championJim Spivey at the 1982 Indiana Big State Meet, establishing himself as one of the top runners on the team. 
In his junior year, he was elected co-captain and had another fine year. He won dual meets against Ohio State and Northwestern, and captured fourth-place hnno..., .,, h. • • h Ll. ·"at. -1al Catholic Meet and the Notre Dame lnvn.t .. unal 
~Pe CAJ'jNON, page 18 

Yolleyball team faces St. Louis U. looking for 3-0 conference record 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
Dedication is one of the es..o;;ential 
elements that drive a team and, 
thanks to two victories this week, 
the Notre Dame volleyball team is 
more determined than ever to ac­
heive its season goal, the North Star 
Conference Championship. 
Tonight at 8 p.m. in the main arena of the ACC, the team will be taking an important step toward that goal as the Irish host St. Louis Uni­versity in their third conference match of the season. Notre Dame hopes that tonight's match will push its season record over .500, in the process improving its conference mark to 3-0. 
Although St. Louis lost some key players to graduation last year, the Billikens promise to be a power­house in the conference again this season. Last year, St. Louis took second place in the conference and defeated Notre Dame in two close contests. Tonight the Irish will be looking to even the score. 
"We're vastly improved," says Notre Dame assistant coach Renee DeGraff. "I don't think (St. Louis will) be in the same spot in the con­ference they were last year, and we're hoping to knock DePaul and them out ofthe top slots." 
DeGraff believes the Irish will defeat the Billikens tonight if Notre Dame plays up to its potential. 
"Ifwe combine the desire we had against Bowling Green and the in­tensity and unity of the DePaul match, I think we can do it," she says. "We have the capabilities and, if we put it all together, we'll win." 
Wednesday night's victory in Joliet, Ill., over St. Francis College gives the Irish confidence going into tonight's match. Although it took Notre Dame four games to overcome St. Francis, 11·1 5, l 5-13, l 5·8, 1 5-4, the contest improved the team's season record to 6-6 and should help the players with the mental part of their game. 

Notre Dame's errors in the first game gave Saint Francis an edge early in the evening. 
"The beginning was a nail biter," said DeGraff. "They didn't score as many points as we gave them." 
When St. Francis took command early in the second game, something clicked with the team and the Irish turned the game around for a 15-13 win. 
"The 1 1-1 5 loss was the turning 
point," said DeGraff.' "When they jumped out in the second game, we realized they weren't that good and we could beat them." 
St. Francis is one of the most com­petitive teams in the NAIA and the 
Irish  were  surprised  when  St.  
Francis  was  not  as  tough  as  its  
reputation.  

"We may have been intimidated in the first game," explained senior spikerJosie Maternowski. "Then we started to hit well; our hitters had a field day with their shorter players." 
The match against St. Francis was 
see VOLLE\', page 18 
Saint Mary's names Wood basketball coach for 1984-85 
To fill the spot that former coach Mike Rouse recently vacated due to a budget contro­versy, Dr. Jo-Ann Nester, Saint Mary's director of athletics and recreation, announced yesterday that Marvin Wood has been named the Belles' new basketball coach. 
Wood, who is scheduled to of­ficially accept the position on Monday, boasts 27 years of In­diana coaching experience, in­cluding both men's and women's teams of various statures. His background is based in high school competition, where he boasts a 1954 boy's state champi­onship at Indianapolis North Central, recent hoy's fourth-and ninth-place state finishes at Mis­hawaka High School, and a 22-2 Mishawaka girl's team that made 

What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet. 
-William Shakespeare 
Football hadn't been invented back in Shakespeare's day, but he seems to have had a good grasp on some basic football tenets. The famous quote above, for in­stance, could be changed slightly to a statement that Notre Dame fans can understand:A win is a utin, even if you are outgained or outplayed. 
As Irish football fans have learned, the team that receives the win is the one with the higher point total at the end of the game. It's not enough to outgain the op­ponent or control the ball for most of the game. You have to score the most points. 
This lesson seems so obvious, but, until last week's Missouri game, we have watched Notre Dame push mari} of its opponents all over the fidd and lose. Last year, for instance, the Irish outgained every opponent but Boston College and finished 7-5. Somehow, they managed to lose games in which they seemed to be in control. Whether it was a turnover, an unsuccessful fourth-and-inches play, or just plain bad luck, Notre Dame found some way to finish with the low score on the scoreboard five times. Very rarely have the Irish been dominated i~ the past few years. 
For this reason, the Missouri \\-in was much more i•n­portant than many people realize. Fur three years, the Irish have been losing games very much like Missouri did on Saturday. The Tigers controlled the hall for most of the game, hut couldn't come up with the big play when they needed it. Despite all this, they had a good chance to pull off a win at the end ofthe game, but blew it. It was almost an exact duplicate ofNotre Dame's per­formance against Air Force last year (which was also televised hy ABC). 
Winning the Missouri game the way they did was definitely a good sign for the Irish. They made their first successful goal-line stand in more than three years, and they won a game that was televised by a major network for the first time since the Michigan season opener of 1982. So what if Missouri is l-3? The Tigers are still a good team with a very good offense who was playing at it to semt-state competition during the 1981-82 season_ 
Presently coach of the Mis­hawaka summer A.A.U. women's squad, -wood continues to produce winning teams as, under his direction, the Hoosierettes have won the state tournament the past two years; in addition, they have earned eighth-and fifth-place • national rankings, respectively. 
"I am really looking forward to getting started at Saint Mary's," says Wood. "It is a first-class school, and I am sure that they are going to want a first-class pro­gram." 
It now only remains to be seen ifWood can pick up where Rouse left off with an up-and-coming program, and if the Saint Mary's administration is willing to back it_ 


M i k e S u II ivan ., 
Sports Editor 
home_ So what if ND was lucky that Lhe Missouri kicker messed up the kick? He missed the kick, Notre Dame won the game, and that's all that matters. It's as simple as that. After three poor seasons, it doesn't matter how Notre Dame wins, as long as it wins. 
Of course it's a little early to say what effect the Mis­souri game is going to have on the rest ofthe season, hut it is safe to say that it has assured that the Miami game will be one ofthe best games in Notre Dame Stadium in a long time. 
With both teams ranked, the Hurricane-Irish matchup is what Notre Dame football is all about_ Miami is the defending national champion. Notre Dame is looking to move into the Top Ten. And both teams hate each other. 
If ever there was a game for students to get psyched up about, it is this one. Last year's loss was embarrassing enough, hut the Miami players were anything hut gra­cious winners. They verbally abused the Notre Dame players and coaches, many times with anti-Catholic taunts. It would he nice to make the Hurricanes feel as unwelcome in South Bend as they made the Irish feel in Miami. 
"Ibis is a very important game fur the Irish. A win would be a big confidence-booster for the team and the fans. A loss wouldn't ruin the season, but it would be very frustrating to think that Notre Dame couldn't win an important home game against a team that it was em­barrassed by in two of the last three years. 
Hopefully, the Missouri game was a sign that the Irish finally are getting some good breaks. If it takes a stroke ofgood fortune to win, so he it. Ifthe Irish can batter the Hurricanes and win, that's even better. 
It really doesn't matter, because a win is a win, and a win over the Hurricanes would be even sweeter. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 



