
World's Fair -page 5 

VOL XIX, NO..iO 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1984 
FBI agent charged with espionage, selling info to female Soviet agent 
Associated Press  upon conviction would be life in  
prison.  
LOS ANGELES -The FBI arrested  No  bail  was  allowed  because  
one of its own agents on espionage  "flight is a real strong risk," Assistant  
charges  yesterday,  accusing  the  U.S. Attorney Ray Edwards said. A  
California-based counterspy of sel­ court document says there  was  a  
ling secrets to a female Soviet agent  plan  for  Miller  to  go  to  Vienna,  
who government sources say may  Austria, or Warsaw, Poland.  
have  been his  lover,  and  to  her  No  plea  was  entered.  Miller  
estranged husband.  winked at his wife, Paula, in court,  
Special Agent Richard W. Miller,  and  she  waved.  The  couple  ex­ 
47, a  20-year FBI  veteran said  to  changed sign language messages.  
have been in financial trouble, was  Svetlana Ogorodnikova, 34, of Los  
the first FBI agent ever charged with  Angeles, an alleged KGB major, and  
espionage and the case marked the  husband Nikolay Ogorodnikov, also  
first known foreign infiltration ofthe  known as Nikolay Wolfson, 51, were  
FBI.  also arrested and charged Wednes­ 
>..  \..---tf/1.  
 Miller, a counterspy based in Los Angeles, was arrested at his home and appeared before U.S. Magistrate  day in Los Angeles. The FBI said they were born in the Soviet Union and emigrated to the United States in  
Always something Paul Peuvers and Marty Valentine patiently listen to the gripes ofjohn Killian last night during  Obud's Gripe Night. Tbe event was held in South Dining Hall and offered students the opportunity to complain about any topic.  Roger McKee in San Diego. He was ordered back to court today to face a charge of conspiracy to gather defense information to aid a foreign government. Maximum penalty  1973. Ogorodnikov, who works for a local sausage factory, appeared see SPYING, page 5  


Faculty Senate contends insurance policy can be improved 
By FRANK LIPO more members become ill, they certain members of the faculty and desirable to the entire faculty." He Bull said there were many reasons Senior StuffReporter could pay up to S1200 per year in staff. said the personnel department has for the initial change to the new deductibles. This prompted the Faculty Senate not acted on the proposals of the plan. He said there was overuse and 
Although more than a year has The Faculty Senate believes the to sponsor a survey of the medical Faculty Senate and "the atmosphere misuse of the previous plan not only passed since the implementation of new policy was devised with little programs at 13 other universities. between the faculty and personnel by the Notre Dame faculty and staff, the new Notre Dame Group Health input from the faculty and was con­The results of the survey were department cannot be described as but by the medical establishment. Insurance Plan, the Faculty Senate cerned that it penalized lower paid evaluated and a number ofproposals amiable or cooperative." continues to insist elements of the members of the faculty and staff. were made. Among the proposals Thomas Bull, director of person­According to Bull,lt has been nl·w plan could be changed to were multiple choice programs, nel, said the new group health insur­shown by a Rand Corporation study become more beneficial to faculty Professor Mario Borelli, former built-in incentives for careful ance plan is "working as it was that uninsured patients often were and staff. Faculty Senate chairman, said, "the verification of bills, University lead­designed to work." He added, "We charged less by the medical es­
"lbe University previously pos­most upsetting thing to the senate ership in the local community devel­don't have any intention ofchanging tablishment than insured patients sessed a "first dollar" coverage plan was that most changes were imple­opment of Health Maintenance it, but we are constantly evaluating and this is not unique to Notre in which the faculty and staff mented during the summer. This Organization, auditing ofall medical the group health options and alter­Dame. He said unless the medical es­received full medical insurance may not be intentional but the result service charges, and a "wellness" natives." tablishment serving the faculty and coVl·ragl· without paying premiums was there was almost no input from program to prevent major illnesses Bull would not comment on any staff and the faculty and staff them­or any deductibles. the Faculty Senate." before they occur. This report was specific point of the faculty senate selves are monitored, the University 
According to the new policy, if a Father David Burrell, Faculty Sen­submitted to the University last survey. He said the "machinery of "may not get the most efficient ex-single member of a family becomes ate chairman, said the new plan February. the institution" rules out a fast ill, he could pay S600 per year in "substantially changed the terms of Borelli said, "The Faculty Senate process of change but does not rule see POLICY, page 6 dcdunibles; if a family had two or employment at the University" of feels a variety ofcoverages would be out the process itself. 

Peace Corps recruiting new people interested in helping disadvantaged 
By TERRY BLAND recruiter, ha<> just returned from project in mind and they find a StuffReporter Paraguay where she spent two and a group that wants to support that spe­half years in the small town of San cific project," Mairson said. "What's 
'!be goals of the Peace Corps are juan. "'Jbe people were mostly farm­good about it is a group gets to see to supply trained manpower to ers," recalls Mairson. "I worked with where their money is going. They '!bird World nations, to give people them on improving farming meth­get pictures of it and expect to get in other countries a better under­ods and that sort of thing." reports on developments." standing of Americans, and to give The Peace Corps is a volunteer or­The majority of the money put Americans a better understanding of ganization funded by the federal into Peace Corps is spent strictly on people in developing countries, ac­government. People who serve supporting the volunteers, said cording to Dan Smocka, a recruiter overseas arc paid approximately Smolka. The volunteers must for the Peace Corps. what a citizen of the host country "create the interest" in any project 
Recently, Smolka served as a doing the same job would be paid, they want to complete. Peace Corps volunteer In Ghana, said Smolka. Workers receive S 1 7 5 a "Jbe average age of a Peace Corps West Africa, wherl· he taught high month as a readjustment allowance, volunteer is 30, and the cost of sup­school and college level biology. which is paid In a bulk sum at the porting a volunteer for a year is Smolka believes the students do end of two years when they return 529,000. Roughly 14 percent of the well, considering what they have to home. volunteers extend their service work with. The Peace Corps Is additionally beyond the usual two-year period. I 
"'lbe thing to remember is that funded by a partnership fund, which ,I they're learning in a second lan­is accessible to volunteers while Smolka and Mairson are working 
1
guage," he said,"and that's also overseas. Various organizations can out ofthc Chicago area recruiting of­soml·thing they have to overcome." contribute to the fund. fice and visiting various colleges in 
~ 
On the average, Smolka found that Smolka explained if a volunteer Illinois and Indiana. Some of the 
the studt·nts in West Africa were a discovered or created a project that schools are the Universtiy ofIllinois, few years older than their counter­had to be funded, money could be parts in the United States. used from this fund to pay for it. see CORPS, page 6 
Amy Mairson, a Peace Corp "Volunteers will have a specific 


The Observer Thursday, October 4, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
The expulsion of two graduate students at the University ofGeorgia resulted from their allegedly selling grades to three undergraduates enrolled in their Spanish classes. The under­graduates paid SISO to the two graduate teaching assistants in ex­change for "A" grades. All of the undergraduates involved had their Spanish grades reduced, and two of them may lose their college degrees as well. -The Observer 
The numberOfairlinedelays dropped in Septem­ber because of better weather and the end of vacation season, but the figure remained much higher than a year ago, officials said yes­terday. The Federal Aviation Administration said there was an average of 1,051 flight delays a day nationwide during September, compared to 1,43I a day during August. That compared to 545 delays a day in September I983. -AP 
A surprise university fire drill in which smoke 
bombs were set offto add realism went awry Tuesday when students panicked, and six people were treated for smoke inhalation, aut­horities said. Smoke bombs were set off at 6:50p.m. by officials in a I4-story dormitory at Stephen F. Austin State University. Five of the injured students were treated for smoke inhalation at Nacogdoches Memorial Hospital and released, a hospital spokeswoman said. A sixth student was treated at the scene, said university spokesman Ken Kennamer. He added campus officials had conducted a similar drill before. -AP 
Brown UDiversity students will vote next 
week on whether they want the campus health center to stock cyanide pills so students can commit suicide in event of a nuclear war rather than die from fallout. About 700 undergraduates at the Ivy League school signed a petition asking that the question be in­cluded on the ballot for the Oct. I0-1I student council election. If the referendum passes but the health center refuses to stockpile cyanide pills, Chris Ferguson, co-author of the referendum, said he hopes it will store a supply of aspirin or other "symbolic" tablets instead. He said such an action still would cause some students to think about the nuclear issue. -AP 
A12-year-oldviolinist"wowed" the audience at a Canadian concert for Queen Elizabeth II, but his energies quickly returned to Calculus 3I1 and the music lessons he's taking at Indiana University. Core.y Cerovsek, who moved to Bloomington from Van­couver, Canada, was invited to play his violin solo for the queen Monday night because he is considered one of Canada's top performers. Although Corey has excelled to college levels both musically and academically, he cringes when people call him a genius or a child prodigy. He says he is just like other kids-he likes to ride bikes, play soccer and build tree houses. -AP 
A backlog ofpaperworkthreatened briefly Tues­day to postpone this week's launch of the space shuttle Challenger from Cape.Canaveral, Fla., but NASA said it could catch up and or­dered the countdown to begin yesterday morning. This flight of the Challenger, tentatively scheduled to begin Friday, will carry the larg­est crew ever assigned to a single space flight. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Feast ofSaint Francis ofAssisi will be cele­brated today with a Mass, meal and movie. At 5: IS p.m. the Mass of the Feast ofSaint Francis will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church. Father Don McNeill, C.S.C., director of the Center for Social Con­cerns will preside. After Mass a "beggars' banquet" will be served at 6:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns, after which a film biog­raphy of Saint Francis, "Brother Sun, Sister Moon" will be shown at 7:30p.m. The celebration is jointly sponsored by the Office of Uni­versity Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns. Admission to all events is free and the public is invited. -The Observer 

Weather 

Mosdy sunny and continued mild today with a high in the mid 70s. Increasing cloudiness tonight with a low in the 50s. Mostly cloudy with a 40 percent chance of rain tomor­row with a high in the mid 70s. -AP 

Today's issue was produced by:

The Observer-
Design Editor....................... Lev Chapelsky Design Assistant............... Mark Weimholt Layout Staff.......................... Caroline Belin

lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is 
Typesetters ..........jennifer Bigott, Kathryn

published Monday through Friday and Humm on home football Saturdays, except 
News Editor........................... Marc Ramirez

during exam and vacation periods. Tbe 
Copy Editor..............................Jane Kravcik

Observer is published by the students of 
Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke

the University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Vtewpotnt Layout.................... Dave Grote

Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
Features Copy Editor....... Marikris Dalum

purchased for $30 per year ( S20 per se­
Features Layout..................... Sharon Houk

mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. 
ND Day Editor ................... Donna Gavigan

Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
SMC Day Editor.................... Carolyn Kelly

lbe Observer is a member of lbe 
Ad Destgn .........................................Suzanne

Assoclated Press. All reproduction 
Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer
righL' are reserved. 



Changing current parietals still too much for some to handle 
Is there a Saint Mary's upperclassman who does not remember the outcome of last year's housing prob­

Tess Guarino
lems? How student government generated enough sup­port to show Dr. John Duggan, College prdident, that the new system ofblocking offspecific rooms for fresh­Assistant News Editor men was unfair? Well, ifyou recall, in the face of all that 


protest, Duggan had the housing policy reversed two Inside Thursday hours before room picks were to begin. That incident showed students what they can ac­complish at Saint Mary's ifthey really want to. check who comes into the dorm; at Saint Mary's there 
Now they have another cause to rally around -an­are hall desks with night workers. But at NO, parietals other policy that can be changed if students show the begin at 11 a.m., whereas at SMC, not until 5p.m. That in necessary support. particular, just does not seem to make much sense. 
That policy is the infamous parietals system at Saint Forgive me for sounding outrageous, but what is the Mary's-a system best described as out ofdate, awkward problem with having men on the floors during the day, and downright embarrassing. even without leaving an 10? The 10 system could still be 
For the benefit of those who aren't familiar with the used at night, if they are really that worried about SMC brand of parietals, male visitors must leave ID strangers coming in. cards at the door before entering the dorm area, and What are these two Boards so concerned about? Why must be escorted by a stu-can't we try to foster normal dent upstairs. Men are not relationships between men allowed on the floors during and women, ones that don't the day either.Just two years start at 5 p.m. and end at I0? ago, hours were extended And as far as the well-worn from 5 to IO p.m. for Sunday disruption excuse, why do 
through Thursday. men always have to equal Weekend nights, parietals noise in the eyes of those end at 2 a.m. making the decisions? 
SMC student government Whether you agree or dis· has been tossing around the agree, you'll have your chance idea ofattempting to change to speak out soon. Each stu­the parietals system, but to dent will be receiving a sur­what extent yet they aren't vey on this subject. Ifstudents sure. However, for any want anything changed in the change to happen, they must parietals system either way, present proposals to several they have got to fill it out and student government com­give it back! With a dramatic mittees and finally to the show of support, the Parent's College's Parent's Council Council and Board of Regents and Board ofRegents. just might have a change of 
This is usually there the problem lies. Both the Par­heart. 

ents' Council and the Board of Regents are exasperat­They are willing to listen if students are willing to ingly hesitant about changing the parietals policy. One speak out. And if students don't respond, tl1ey have no reason given is usually security, among otl1ers. In Notre reason to complain about the present Saint Mary's Dame women's dorms, there is the Detex system to parietals policy again. 


• 
Give to the United Way Campus Drive 
Unitedway 


begins Monday 
•
•

• THE LEPRECHAUN i
• 

•• * EconomicaUv Priced to fit your budget.•• * Conveniently Located to service all areas of campus.
•

• * Marie Fresh hete on campus -·-a! 
••• • * Assortment of Good Toppings to choose from. 1::11 • * Pick up or Delivery available. 
• . -·( ,..i 
• ( ~) •
r'> 

0! 
Oi 
~i 
-a!
,..!
• MENU :• Leprechaun Special .Pizza •.• $ 9.00 

Zi
THE HUDDLE•• Taco Pizza ••.•••.••••••.••• 7.80 

239-7157 -<!
•
• 
4:00 -12:30 a.m.
Cheese Pizza •...•••.••••... 5.80 

•
•
•
•• • Pizza Toppings ............ . 1.00 ea 

•
• •

OAK ROOM CAFE •
•
•
• Pepperoni Saus.age 

239.7518 • 
Mushrooms Chopped Ham 

9:00 -1:00 a.m. (Sun-Thurs) •
•
Green Peppers Onions 

9:00-2:00a.m. (Fri, Sat) ••• Black Olives Ground Beef 
•
• • 

,....------------~--------------------~-------------~-~ ----~----­
Thursday, October 4, 1984-page 3 
The Observer 

Congressmen outraged over spending of funds 
A."'llodated Press 
WASHINGTON · Congressmen expressed outrage yesterday that most of the S8 million set aside so military facilitit:s could he adapted as shelters for the homeless had been spent by the Army on routine malntl·nance. 
"lhat, I think, is just shocking," said Rep. Ted Weiss, D·N.Y., chair­man of subcommittee that was told about the Defense Department's spending. 
"!he General Accounting Office said that in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, J200,000 was used to upgrade a facility for the homeless in Alameda County, Calif., and S700,000 has been obligated for a similiar project in Philadelphia. 
""Inc balance of the money has been spent in Army reserve fix-up operations" to repair "defense facilities for defense purposes," said Paul C. Wright of the GAO, the con· gressional audit agency. 
"Ibe money set aside by Congress for the homeless orginially had been placed in a Defense Department ac· count because "Army reserve centers were thought to be probably the first type of facility to be used as a shelter," he said. 
"However when Defense saw it was not going to be using the entire $8 million" for the shelters, it decided to spend the money for other purposes rather than lose it at the end of the fiscal year, he said. 
Joseph F. Delfie<>, associate direc­tor of the human resources division of the GAO, said the Pentagon con­tended that one reason it didn't use all the money on shelters was the remoteness of the military bases. 
He added: "the base commanders who were in charge of the local bases had rules about the amount of people they would take onto the base, the facilities and how they would be used and they're quite restrictive. 
"For military reasons, they preferred to restrict some ofthe use of the base to maybe just weekends and certain times during the weekend and so forth." 
Local citizens who were hoping to use the facilities to provide help for the homeless often found the condi· tions too restrictive, he said. 

section ofthe hall was represented by its oum act. The group above is performing its version of the ever-popluar bit, "Pheasantplucker." 
Three Lewis Hall residents strum their Wilsons at last night's Lewis Talent Night in the Nazz. Each 

The GAO said some 600 Army facilities were were initially thought to be possible shelters, but only two 
Nineteen die in boat party accident 
were selected. 

Associated Press 
HAMBURG, West Germany · In· vestigators said yesterday they found no life preservers aboard a chartered ship that sank after a colli· sion in Hamburg harbor, killing 19 revelers on a birthday champagne cruise. 
The cause of the Tuesday night disaster had not been determined as investigators raised the wreckage of the 47-foot Martina and towed it to a shipyard. 
The husband and wife who char· tered the vessel to celebrate his 40th birthday were among 24 people rescued, but their two young sons were presumed drowned. 
The body of a woman in her 60s was found floating in the harbor about an hour after the Martina, with 4 3 aboard, sank after colliding with a tugboat cable. 
Six more bodies, three adults and three children, were found trapped in the Martina's hull when the vessel was raised yesterday. 
Rescuers abandoned the search for seven adults and five children still missing, saying there was no hope they survived. 
Wolfgeorg Rosenhagen told police he and his wife, Gudrun, char­tered the ship for a champagne cruise to celebrate his birthday. They were rescued, along with 22 others who were treated for shock and exposure after being plucked from 51-degree waters. But the The captain was among those mis· sing and presumed dead. 

Police said some witnesses claimed the tugboat Therese was not displaying the proper lights when the Martina hit a cable con· necting the tugboat and a barge. The tug was not damaged, and there were no injuries among its crew. 
Interior Senator Rolf Lange told reporters the Martina capsized and "may have been run over by the barge," which was loaded with ma­terial from an excavation site. 
Tugboat skipper Guenther Heinemann immediately radioed an alarm and began taking survivors aboard, authorities said. 
In all, 35 boats and 700 police offi· cers, firefighters, harbor officials and 
Rosenhagens'  sons,  11-year-old  
Guntram  and  5-year-old  Mathias,  
were missing.  

Joachim Peters, head of the Ham· burg harbor police, said "no rescue gear was found," either life preser­vers orlife rafts, on the raised boat or in the water nearby. 
It was not immediately clear what lifesaving equipment would have been required aboard the Martina. 

volunteers joined the rescue effort, scouring the nearby Elbe River, which makes up Hamburg harbor, and the rocky banks for survivors. Relatives kept shoreline vigils through the night. 
Heinemann was unavailable for comment, and the telephone at his home was not answered Wednes­day. No charges have been filed against him. 
Lets talk 
about the summer 
of '85. 
If you ore thinking that far ahead, we may have a jOb for you. 
W R. Grace & Co. is looking for outstanding undergraduates to join us in a summer 1ntern program between tumor and senior years. 
We are looking for especially talented: 
ACCOUNTING AND ENGINEERING MAJORS 
Students with outstanding academic records and with a demonstrated interest in outside act1v1ties ... Men and women with a genuine interest in business and w1th that special m1x of 1magination, ability and foresight necessary for success ... lndiv1duals of inordinate curiosity, and the willingness to learn in an unstructured environment. 
In a recent summer, one of our recruits spent her two months in financial analysis. One came to New York for a special pro1ect 1n our Corporate Finance 
The Observer 
Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Project Manager 
• 
Work with Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editor on long-term projects for the newspaper. 

• 
Salaried position. 

• 
Observer experience is required. 

• 
For more information and a specific job de­scription, see Bob Vonderheide at ThA Observer office. 


summer with one of our Chemical Divisions as a Process Engineer. 
As your placement officer will tell you, our global interests in chemicals, natural resources and consumer products offer a rare diversity of opportunity. 
We will be on your campus soon. If this idea challenges you -and you enjoy a challenge-take some time now to outline your qualifications in a thoughtful letter to: 
Manager of College Relations 
W. R. Grace & Co. Grace Plaza 1114 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10036 
One step ahead of a changing world. 
GRACE

Deportment and another spent the chemicals • natural resources • consumer products 
<m t~qunl opportunity (•mp!oytH 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Canter Notra Dame, IN 46556 
~ ~-~~~~~-----------~~--~ -~­
Thursday, October 4, 1984 ­
The Observer 



COMPUTER NERD 
Vouknow this stereotype. 

& And you know it doesn't apply to you. Yet finding an employer who ignores stereotypes and recognizes talent may seem difficult, ifnot impossible. 
At The Travelers, we know excep­

tional talent when we see it. And we have a 
program that prepares gifted, highly moti­
vated individuals for management careers in 
data processing. 
Our ACCENT (Accelerated Entry Into Management) p!ogram will challenge your r technical and intellectual abilities. Through 
r 
r rotations, you'll contribute to areas likeN et­
r work Design and Development, Personal 
r Computer Development, and Operating Sys­tem Support. And across-the-board experi­ence is good preparation for management responsibilities. 
And withyour ACCENT training behind you, you'll be ready for a visible man-
I I 
agement position. In a department with an annual budget exceeding $200 million dol­lars, state-of-the-art data centers in Hartford andAtlanta, and one of the largest distrib­uted networks in the world. 
The Travelers is a diversified financial services corporation with $33 billion dollars in assets. We are committed to improving productivity with the help of such leading­edge technologies as the 12,000 IBM per­sonal computers we've purchased. 
So ifyou want a career that matches your ability, ACCENT wants you. Come talk to The Travelers representative on campus. 
Nerds need not apply. 
TheTraveler~ 
The Travelers Companies Hartford, Connecticut 06115 
'I ~.).J. ~ ,; ~ • .: -'.1 

Recruiting Date: 1 0/12/84 


,----------------~-~--­
The Observer Thursday, October 4, 1984 -page 5 

World's Fair described as disaster by governor 
Associated Press which hao; had to lay off hundreds of c:mployc:c:s, is expected to continue: 
NEW ORLEANS-The: World's Fair until its scheduled Nov. II closing. has become: a "disaster" and had it been a public undertaking "there: In another development, a New would have been a number of Orleans television station reported people: sent to the: penitentiary," that Spurney hao; been called to ap­Gov. Edwin Edwards said Tuesday. pear before a New Orlc:ans federal 
Edwards also said the fair must cut grand jury today to answer ques· expenses and dispense: with un­tions about the: fair. necessary high-level employees, in­WWL-lV on Tuesday quoted uni· cluding the president of the dentified sources as saying that Louisiana World Exposition Inc., Spurney was not a subject of U.S. At· Petr Spurnc:y, and the director of tornc:y John Volz's investigation into marketing, George Williams. the: fair's financial dealings. Spurney 
Bolstered by the city's agreement did not return a telephone call left at not to demand payment of $35 mil­his home: by The Associated Press lion owed in taxes, the exposition, about the report Tuesday night. 
all three, court~approved electronic bugging of the Soviet couple's apart·
Spying 

ment and a search of Miller's residence to which he agreed. 
continuedfrom page 1 Richard Bretzing, special agent in charge of the Los Angeles FBI office, before U.S. Magistrate Volney Brown said Mrs. Ogorodnikova's cover was Rev. jesse jackson, shown here with Sen. George terday. Vice President Bush also disclosed his tax on Wednesday. Dressed in a sweat­a job ao; a day nurse and her husband McGovern, made his first public appearence with returns yesterday. More campaign news below. shirt, blue jeans and a baseball cap, worked a'i a butcher in a sausage: fac­
vice presidental candidate Geraldine Ferraro yes-he said he was destitute, with just tory. S85 in his savings account. He "This is a very sad day for us," FBI removed his cap when he stood director William Webster said at a before Brown. ceremony honoring 26 slain agents 
The couple is separated and in Washington.

Bush reveals tax returns for years in office; 
embroiled in a dispute over custody "If true," said former Los Angeles of their 13-year-old child. The father agent-in-charge Herbert Clough,
Ferraro, Jackson begin joint appearances 
currently has custody, officials said. "this would be the first known situa· Probation-sentencing officer tion" involving foreign infiltration of Allllodakd Press campaign schedule, addressing dates kept up their campaign pace, Leroy Washington said he inter-the FBI. rallies in Little Rock, Ark., and Tulsa, their running mates began preparing viewed Ogorodnlkov, who said that In an affidavit, Special Agent Bryce 
As Geraldine: Ferraro and the Rev. Okla. in earnest for their debate Sunday. At while he was in the Soviet Union in Christensen said Miller had ad· Jesse Jackson urged voters to "send Bush took time out, however, to his only public appearance of the 1965, he was arrested and accused mitted to the FBI's chiefpolygrapher Reagan back to the ranch," Vice tell reporters that he could now day, Walter Mondale called for ap· ofbeing an American spy. Monday that he demanded 150,000 President George Bush released his sympathize with his Democratic op­pointment ofa federal drug czar and "However, those charges were in gold for delivering documents to tax returns yesterday, revealing that ponent, who also had been under use of the armed forces to help cut a dismissed," Washington said. Mrs. Ogorodnikova, and in August he had been assessed J 198,000 in immense pressure to detail her fam­"flood of narcotics" into the United Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard had requested he be paid 17,000 in additional taxes and interest after an ily's finances. States. Kendall argued that "the risk offlight cash plus II ,000 in expenses if he audit ofhis 1981 return. Bush's tax returns had become an In their first joint campaign ap· is extreme" because the Ogorod-went to Mexico to deliver docu· 
Bush is contesting the 1144,128 issue after he claimed he could not pearance · at a rally at Memphis State nikovs are still Soviet citizens and ments. In additional taxes and JS4,000 In release them because he had placed University in Tennessee · Ferraro could be taken out ofthe country by The affidavit said Miller "admitted interest that he was assessed after all his asseL'i in a blind trust when he and Jackson blasted Reagan's Soviet agents iffreed. having numerous personal meetings the Internal Revenue: Service: dis· took office. policies as they sought to wrest the He noted that when arrested, with Swetlana Ogorodnlkova from allowed a deduction he claimed on In advance of the disclosure, Bush South from the GOP. Ogorodnlkov was armed with a late: May 1984 to late September prufiL'i from the sale of a house in told reporters in Little Rock, Ark., "I "Jesse jackson and I share a loaded semi-automatic pistol. 1984." Government sources in Houston and said that part of a hope everybody's insatiable dream: we hope, we believe that The magistrate ordered Ogorod-Wa'ihington, who spoke: on condi· 191 ,852 campaign fund surplus curiosity is resolved." after our candidacies no American nikov held without bail but said he tion they not be identified, said the should have been counted as Asked if that curiosity was im· will ever again be discouraged and was entitled to a bail hearing in 24 relationship may have been sexual. income. proper, he replied, "I think it's un­no person will ever again be dis-hours ifhe requests one. The affidavit said in August he 
As his aides releao;ed his tax derstandable ... particularly in a qualifed from any office in the land The FBI said its information was gave her a copy ofa secret FBI docu· returns for the: three years that he campaign year." because ofrace religion or sex," Fer-based on interviews with Miller and ment, titled "ReportingGuidance: has been in office, Bush kept to his While the vice presidential candi· raro said. Mrs. Ogorodnikova, surveillance of foreign Intelligence Information." 
.,.. .-:.-:•...........................
• 
: ~ir RichnrdJs • 
•• Hairstyling for MEN and WOMEN 
• 
•
_.Walk-ins Welcome 
For appointment call 277-0734 

~ ~CZ]Qoweng fpn aQQ occagLottg '' 
• Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232-3354' 

TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes LeHers Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 


SENIORS 
EXPERIENCE LATIN AMERICA WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE 
A two-year post-graduate commitment to living a simple lifestyle, teaching, serving and sharing in community. 
For Information contact: 
Mury Ann Roerner  John F1tzpotnck  
'  ·0r1ter tor Sc.,ot ~;oncerns  AssoCiotes Off1ce  
239·7949  239·5521  
239'  lVOilOuqh  
239·6522  


i6$fiaci 
SPECIAL 
$1 OFF Any Meal With This Ad 
* * * * * * * * * * 
Specializing In: 

Smoked Fried Deliciously Thkk
* HICKORY RIBS * CHICKEN *PIZZA 
* * * • * * • • • • 
BEER and WINE 
Phone Ahead-Complete Carryout 
TWO LOCATIONS: 
1835 Lincolnway East, South Bend-Open 1days-288-8240 St. Rd. 23 &Bittersweet, Granger Closed Monday Only 271-3143 


The Observer Thursday, October 4, 1984 -page 6 


Researchers find strenuous exercise helps protect against cardiac arrest 
Associated Press 
other," said an editorial published Carolina and the University ofWash­with the research in today's New En­ington, was based on a review of 133 

BOSTON -Regular jogging, chop­glandJournal of Medicine. cases of cardiac arrest in King ping wood and other rugged exer­The study found, essentially, that County, Wash., which includes cise helps protect men from cardiac hard exercise both increases and Seattle. arrest, even though the odds of suf­decreases the risk ofcardiac arrest, a The researchers interviewed the fering one ofthese seizures is higher sudden lack of heart beat that can victims' wives to find out how much during the workout than at other result from a heart attack, a heart time the men had spent in such times, a study has found. rhythm disturbance or some other vigorous exercise as swimming, jog­
The researchers believe their cardiac crisis. ging, chopping wood or playing work settles a long-standing contro­During a workout, men are more singles tennis, as well as whether versy -whether the benefits of likely than usual to have these often­they were stricken during these ac­strenuous exercise outweigh its fatal seizures. But ~e rest of the tivities. risks -on the side of the benefits. time, their risk of cardiac arrest is 
The issue was raised again lastJuly substantially lower. And on balance, They found that the more the men when author Jim Fixx, who helped men who exercise regularly have a exercised, the less likely they were spur the running craze in the United better chance than sedentary men of to suffer cardiac arrest during their States, died of a heart attack while escaping them. exercise time. But even those who jogging in Vermont. "One needs to try to weigh the worked out more than 2 hours and "For the first time, one study ap­risks and the benefits," said Dr. 20 minutes a week were still five pears to resolve the apparent con­David Siscovick, who directed the times as likely to have a seizure tradiction posed by the occurrence research. "That's what this study did, during exercise than at other times. ofdeaths during exercise on the one and the benefits seemed to out­The risk was 13 times greater hand and the burgeoning reports of weigh the risks." during exercise for those who the benefits of habitual exercise in The study, conducted by re­worked out less but still got at least 
coronary heart disease on the searchers at the University of North 20 minutes of exercise a week. 
r 
r 
r Sony unveils portable disc player
r 
r 
Associated Press or can be plugged into conventional unit of Sony's American subsidiary, stereo systems. said at a news conference. 
NEW YORK -Sony Corp. on Tues­The D-5, which will be available in Now that the systems' prices are day unveiled a portable model ofits November, measures 5 by 5 falling, the anticipated sales surge is compact disc player, an emerging inches, and employs the same discs -beginning to occur. audio technology that the sound in­4 inches in diamater -as are used in Between 200,000 and 250,000 of dustry predicts will eventually the full-size compact disc systems. the players are expected to be sold replace conventional record and It carries a suggested list price of this year, up from 35,000 in I983, tape systems. 5299.95, but many electronics out­and sales are expected to double 
Sony, which launched another in­lets often discount the prices ofsuch again in I985. Sales ofthe individual dustry trend a few years ago with its consumer products. discs are expected to climb above 5 Walkman portable tape cassette The D-5 also features an million units this year from 1 million players, claimed its portable com­"automatic sensor" that allows its in I983. pact disc player, the D-5, is the small­user to locate and play favorite seg­The full-size players initially cost est such system in the world. ments of a recording by quickly about Sl ,000, but some audio 
scanning forward or backward over retailers are now selling versions of 

Guy Johnson of the Indiana the disc until the desired segment is the machines for as low as $350. lieutenant governor's office said found. Prices of the discs have dropped to Tuesday that Sony's new plant in Since Sony and some two dozen as low as $12 apiece from S25. Terre Haute is the only one in the other companies first began selling country making the disc. However, the systems early last year, they have Sony and other disc system it also is being manufactured in been forecasting that the compact manufacturers tout not only the sys­Japan. disc systems will revolutionize con­tem's superior sound quality relative 
In addition, Sony introduced two sumers' audio habits. to conventional stereos, but also its versions of its disc system for The disc system "is the fastest durability. automobiles. growing audio concept in the last 25 Conventional record players use a 
Sony said the D-5 player serves as years," Thomas E. Steckbeck, senior stylus, or needle, to read sound that a portable when used with an op­vice president in the audio division is engraved in the grooves of the tional battery pack and earphones, of Sony Consumer Products Co., a vinyl album. 
Corps 
continuedfrom page I 

Illinois State University, and Indiana University. 
By visiting these schools, Smolka and Mairson hope to establish awareness among students about the Peace Corps and the need to develop countries. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors inter­ested in the Peace Corps are urged 
HAIRCUTS

'i.. 'H5 rnrac.:e Lane to attend interviews being held at 
(SI. Kd. 25) Notre Dame andSaint Mary's Oct. 15 
:\cro~~ from Martin's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut.

through I7, said Smolka. Saint Mary's seniors interested in Peace Corps work can attend inter­
We are only minutes from campus 

views at Saint Mary's Career Devel­opment Center in LeMans Hall on Oct. I5. Notre Dame seniors inter­ested in becoming a Peace Corps volunteer can attend interviews in Notre Dame's Placement Office on Oct. I6 and I7. 
EASY RIDER 

As an introduction to the Peace Corps, a 30-minute film titled "The TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE Toughest Job You'll Ever Love" will EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY be shown in the Center for Social Concerns tonight at 7. 
United Limo
~HDUI
,.__
Correction 
illl'/!~

Because of an editing error, the photo on page one of yesterday's 
10844 McKinley Hwy. Osceola ., ~·~ .IIIII u1111 

paper was incorrectly attributed. The photographer was Margie 
674-6993 ~f~.~• 1mo n ltl
i1 
Kersten. 
155-3068 t C \•, 1111111111111111 I 
or call your Travel Agent Jill~~~~ llllllllllllilllluu I ~ lunnutltlllllr.t 


Mary Beth Edelson addresses an audience in the art building last night, hoping to inspire future artists. Edelson is an Indiana painter and sculptor whose lecture was part ofthe visiting artists lecture series. 
gery, such as a heart bypass, that
Policy 
could cost SI00,000. 

In the case of minor surgery,continuedfrom page I however, the cost of the deductible and the operation might be closer in penditure ofthe insurance dollar." dollar amount and the plan might 
Medicare and Medicaid shift was not be seen as valuable to the faculty another reason for the change. He or staff member. Bull said the way said Medicare and Medicaid often we view the new plan "is a matter of underpays a private medical facility perspective." by 10 to 20 percent as a regular policy. Hospitals acknowledge this He said the new group health in­underpayment is made up by cost in­surance plan is "still a major creases to a private patient. coverage of health insurance 
Bull also said the high cost of new protecting all faculty and staff. Ad­medical technology and the tech­mittedly, they do have to pay certain nicians to run the new equipment deductibles, in contrast with the old increases the cost ofmedical costs in plan." our country today. ''I'm not opposed to communica­
Although an individual may pay tion" on the issue of the group up to S600 a year in deductibles, health insurance plan but, he said, he that S600 might pay for major sur-is just a technician ofthe plan. 
¥ ••••••••••••••••••• 

Student Players present... 

Sweeney Todd 
a musical thriller 

O'Laughlin Auditorium, Nov. 1,2,3,4 Tickets on sale NOW at: 
SAB Record Store $4° 0 presale Century Center $500 at door O'Laughlin Aud. Box Office 
JOE "KING" CARRASCO 
Post Game Dance 

• PARTY •
•
e AT Stepan Center 

•
e 11:00, October 6 

•
• TICKETS: $250 in advance 

•
e $350 at door 

•
: available at SAB Record Store 

• 
: * OpeningAct for the Go-Go's • e * OnM.T.V. e * Sings with Michael Jackson! 
SPONSORED BY SAB WITH WVFI 


~-----------------------­

Showcase 
Thursday, October 4, 1984-page 7 

;1 Terracotta head 
Past identity found in Nigerian ground 
by Patty Tripathi 
features staff writer 
I
n 1938 when technically superb and extraor­
dinarily beautiful bronze or brass sculptures were 
escavatt·d from lfe in Western Nigeria, it bewildered 
historians and archaeologists. 'Jbese naturalistic 
sculptures, advanced in their casting, were unlike any 
other Mrican work ofart. Their similarity to European 
styles ofsculpture led the experts to believe that these 
cscavations were not Mrican. 
An archaeologist, Frank Willett, by tracing the 
history of the sculptures in Nigeria, reveal~d that t~ese 
outstanding pieces ofart were actually African. 11us 
noted archaeologist lct·turcd on the revelation of his 
archacolowcal escavations Tuesday in the Annenberg 
Auditorium of the Snite Museum. 
He dcllvt·rt·d an illustrated slide lecture entitled 
"Archeology and the History of Western Sculpture" 
EJJsworJd R.H.E. 
;::::.::...::..:...:,________________, 

Amateur umpires 
and traced the history ofsculptures in Nigeria from the 
middle of the first millennium B.C. up to the present 
day as it has been revealed by a succession ofexca~a­
tlons. In his lecture he links with Ife the great medieval 
center ofportrait-like sculpture in bronze and 
terracotta. Willett also shows how this relates to the 
arts of Benin and Owo and to later sculpture of the 
Yoruba peoples who still inhabit Southwestern 
Nigeria. 
By explaining how he carefully examined every . 
minute detail of the sculptures, Willett illustrated h1s 
reasoning that these works ofart were African. Unlike 
the European arts, the heads of the sculptures were as 
large as the rest ofthe body. The rings on the forehead, 
reciprocal curve oflower eyelid to the eyebrow, 
elaborate hairstyle, and the circular or triangular shape 
of the eyes ofthe sculptured heads helped to prove 
that these magnificant structures were African. The 
discovery of radio-carbon proved false the eth­
nocentric view that people living in mud shacks and 
under grass roofs could not have made such beautiful 
objects as the bronze and terracotta sculptures. 
The bronze and terracotta sculptures depictevidence ofother crafts as well. The clothing worn by 
the figures were ofcloth and some embroidery on the sashes was also evident. Beads ofa variety ofshapes and sizes were common on the figures and a great variety ofbracelets ofglass, metal or ivory with sculptures of human and animal as well as motifs of abstract nature were also discovered in the escava­tions done in lfe. 
Professor Willett is the director of the Hunterian Museum at the University ofGlaslow, Glaslow, Scotland. When in charge of Ethnology and General Archaeology in the Manchester University Museum, Willett conducted expeditions to lfe and Old Oyo. In 1958, he became the archaeologist to the Federal Government of Nigeria and curator of the lfe Museum. He has since worked at Oxford ( 1964--66) and Northwestern University ( 1966--76) as the professor ofAfrican Art. He has writt~n the History ofWest 
African Sculpture ( 1967),Aj{1Can Arts: An Introduc­tion ( 1971 ), Treasures ofAncient Ngerla ( 1980 ), and numerous articles on archaeology and art history of West Africa. In 1979 he was elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and since 1959 has been honorary corresponding member of the Manchester 
Utcrary and Philosophical Society, an honor formerly held by Benjamin Franklin. 
Records 

'New Sensations' felt in blues and rhyth01 
by Pat Beaudine 
features staffwriter 
I
f you walk past the trendy, slick night clubs of New York City to an old rhythm and blues bar on a dark, rundown street, you'll find Lou Reed. His song fills every pore of the city and his music pounds like the heart of urban life. In a sense, he is its perfect model--with its vices, candor, and toughness--and a "great defender" ofit, as he sings on his new album, New Sensa­tions. 
By the title a revitalized Lou 
Reed cah be sensed. And once 
the opening chords of"l Love 
You, Suzanne" ring out, it 
becomes clear that he's on a 
fresh turn in his long career. But 
the music is not the only thing 
special about his best single in 
years. It's the message. He sings 
about a woman named Suzanne 
and regardless of what she does, 
he's going to love her: 
I love you when you're good 
/loveyou when you're bad 
Do whatyou gotta do 
But/loveyou, Suzanne 
A special, unbreakable bond also exists in "My Friend George," as he sings: 
Readinthepaperabouta man killed with a sword And that made me think ofmy friend George People said the man wasfive foot six Sounds like Georgie with his killing stick 
In other words, his friend was not perfect, but Reed's quick to point out "I hear you talking about my friend George "and that you better get the word right before you label him. 
"Turn to Me" is another song about a friend. Basically, Reed sings no matter what kind of bind his friend may be in, he'll always be there to help out. This brings up another point: all ofhis good friends, in a sense, are "blood brothers," and behind Reed's dark shades and leather jacket is an honest, loyal guy. His front is just like his New York City, because behind all of the 

gritty veneer is a town with a 
solid bond. 

But, just like the city, Reed's not perfect. He's got his major vices, as he sings in "Endlessly Jealous:" 
jealousy endlessly sweeps through my mind Andjealousy often causes me to 
be unkind 
I'm sony I said that 
I'm sony I did that 
..J'm sony, I'm sony. 

And in the title track he reminds the listener that "drunk and disorderly, I ain't no cupid." In other words, he's telling it like it is, and ifit isn't liked, there's not much he can do but be sorry. 
Through all of these songs it is appart.•nt that l.ou Reed is no typical rock star, but his music does not suffer through his self-­expression. If anything, it stands by itself, nicely. Sure, "What Becomes a Legend Most" is a bit awkward and unremarkable, but there arc ten other songs to make up the difference. 11le guitar riff and drum intro on "Turn to Me," for example, have as much impact as some ofThe Rolling Stones' best. And "Down at the Arcade" rocks surely: 
Oh, I'm the Great Defender, 
listen to my song 1 really hopeyou like it, it isn't very long 
It's rooted in the fifties, but its heart's in 1984 And ifyou really like it Then I'll sing itfor you once more. 
Reed's heart is clearly devoted to the present, a..'iNewSensa­tions illustrates. It's a solid workout that shows the "great defender" doing what he does best--no nonsense rock n roll. And even though it is rooted In the fifties, It's fresher than ever and makes one thing evident-­he's going to have to sing It once more. 

~i~~~_()__i_ll__t________________
Th_u_rsd-ay_,o_ct-ob-er-4,_19-84--pa-ge-8 


Now playing: Gall of the President's Men 
As we enter the closing rounds ofCampaign '84, the candidates continuous rounds of mudslinging and brickbat throwing are
, 
greatly intensifying. The end result is only an
, 
end run around the issues and yet greater 
r 
~ John Perez 
,r 
r just wondering 
f 
doses of bombastic oratory, obscuring some of the more interesting political develop­ments. For example, the continuing saga of Edwin Meese's bid to become the next U.S. Attorney General. 
! 
Meese, in case you do not remember, is one of President Reagan's closest advisors. Unfor­tunately, it appears that Meese suffers from a r 
very unusual memory disorder. He forgot, for r example, to make mortgage payments on his r California home for fifteen months. "No prob­lem," said the loan officers at Great American r" Bank of San Diego. In fact, four loan officers r were able to inform him oftheir generosity in r person -they were given Federal jobs. Who r approved their hiring? Why, none other than r Ed Meese. Apparently his memory did not fail 
him completely. Then again, the White House 
r 
labeled this turn ofevents "coincidence". 
Does this mean that Meese made use of his high government position to fix a glitch in his personal financial life? "Of course not," said Meese, " ...(I've) never taken advantage of an official position to obtain private gain." 
r 
The hiring of E.W. Thomas by Meese as his 
aide seems to bear this out. Thomas did not loan any money to Meese. He did, however, make a n 5,000 interest-free loan to Meese's wife. At this time, however, the mysterious memory bug struck again, and Ed Meese "neglected" (surprise!) to report the loan on his required financial disclosure statements. It was probably just another coincidence. 
Two weeks ago, a court-appointed inves­tigator released his 385-page report on Meese's activities. With regard to his aforementioned credit practices, the report states that while "an inference of willful non­disclosure arguably could be drawn," no motivefor doing so could befound. Meese's response that any omissions were inadvertent was accepted, even though evidence exists that Thomas had reminded him to list the $15,000 loan on his disclosure forms. 
Meese is not the only Reagan aide a.tflicted with memory problems. Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan is currently under indict­ment for alleged involvement in racketeering activities within the construction industry ­the only sitting Cabinet member in history to be so charged. Former EPA director Anne Bur­ford Gorsuch left her job under heavy fire, and subsequently was cited in contempt of court for refusing to provide auditors with informa­tion pertaining to her management of the Su­perfund toxic waste cleanup program. After the flak surrounding this incident subsided, she accepted a high-paying government job she described as "stupid and pointless". A similar case is that of)ames Watt. As Secretary of the Interior, he was responsible for the protection of our nation's natural resources. However, he proposed to nearly halve the acreage ofFederal conservation areas, remove dozens of animals from the Endangered Species List, and ease restrictions on various industrial processes proven to be harmful to the environment. Where is Watt now? He works for the same business interests he once regulated. 
So, let's stop looking at the candidates so closely. It's a lot more fun to watch their cronies. When we think about the mess they are making oftheir offices; we certainly need a good laugh. 
john Perez is a junior accounting major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Ronald Reagan isn't a White House phantom 
From now until election day expect signs of a more informed Ronald Reagan, especially on foreign policy. It is meant to rebut Reagan's vulnerability to the repeated charge that he is 
Max Lerner 

The Lerner column 
lazy and ignorant, that he doesn't work, doesn't know anything and doesn't involve himselfin anything. 
Given Reagan's presidential and polls' suc­cess, it recalls Lincoln's historic response to those who complainied about General Grant's drinking problem. "Tell me what brand he drinks and I'll get it for my other generals." 
Tip O'Neill, who worries about Reagan's work ethic, says the president never worked more than 2 1/2 hours a day and "never fol­lows up." Think of the collective envy this must arouse. It contrasts with Jimmy Carter's 16 or 18 hours doing all the White House chores himself, and makes Carter clearly the more assiduous if the not superior president. 
Walter Mondale, very much the pursuer of the possessor, has another theory -that Reagan is being held prisoner by his Palace Guards, to "isolate" him from the world of reality and is brought out on occasion wrapped in a cocoon to show up for his "photo opportunities" and display appoint-
Correction 
Because of an editing error, a letter to the editor titled: "Look beyond the limits of the ND community," which appeared in yesterday's issue of The Observer, incor­rectly listed Jennifer Brown's residence as Lewis Hall. Jennifer Brown lives in Pasquerilla West Hall, not Lewis. 
ments, like the Gromyko meeting. The 
"cocoon theory" has caught on and is the cur­
rent rage ofWhite House correspondents. 
Yet it is scarcely a discovery that the presi­
dent is being given tender, loving treatment 
by his handlers, who know how to use the 
technology of a 1V political culture. The 
practical payoff at any moment is the poll 
results and the electoral college projections. 
The Reagan people moved fast to take ad­
vantage of the Gromyko visit and turned the 
opening of the U.S. session into political the­
ory, which made the entire world focus on 
Reagan's changed position on weapons talks 
with the Russians. 
Again Mondale charges that this is a fake 
Reagan, and that the "new Reagan" is only a 
phantom of the White House. But it is Reagan 
who will have taken the initiative and 
Mondale the responsive role. 
The charge of an "ignorant" gives meaning 
to a new vein of events. In preparing for the 
Gromyko meeting, we were told, Reagan met 
for briefings with a cluster of unofficial 
Sovietologists and again with a cluster of 
governmental ones, although I doubt he:: could 
have learned over much from either since 
Sovietology has largely become a kind of 
Kremlin weather-watching. 
He also met, most notably, with Richard 
Nixon. Reagan has for weeks been touching all 
the bases of his White House predecessors ­
Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman, Jack Ken­
nedy. That he now includes Nixon, whom he 
has seen privately a number of times but now 
publicly, is a sign ofthe added security he feels 
in making the public connection that might 
once have appeared dangerous. 
This, I suggest is no phantom at the White 
House. He is very much a presence. The tan­
talizing question is still the skill with which it 
is done. What it shows is that being president 
is an adventure in showmanship as well as in 
decision-making. 
(C) 1984 Los Angeles Times Syndicate. 


Only God can judge a decision on abortion 
Because ofmy credentials, what I am to say may seem suspect to some, but I feel con­strained to offer some observations on the campus discussion of abortion and public policy. 
As for my credentials: I am not a Roman Catholic, but an ordained Presbyterian mini­ster; further, I am a PhD Candidate in the de­partment of theolo~; finalh. I am a liturgical 
Rev. J. Frederick Holper 
gUeSt COlUmn 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
historian, not a moral theologian. Thus, I can claim no authority whatever except the faith we share as brothers and sisters in Christ. 
The abortion question is so difficult for so many people -including people of faith from all religious traditions -because, more than perhaps any other moral dilemma now facing us -it exposes us to the ambiguity we experi­ence because we are human beings and not gods. Ambiguity is a most uncomfortable ex­perience, for we would rather be absolutely sure of ourselves, and so we try to distance ourselvesfrom the experience as best we can. 
This desire to escape the dilemma ofhaving to make difficult choices about how to be faithful to the God who gives us life is ex­pressed very powerfully in the symbolic ban­ners around which partisans in the abortion dispute rally. The banner of "pro-life" and "pro-choice" are not merely steno-linguistic labels used solely to distinguish between competing moral and political agendas, but expressive symbol systems chosen by the par­tisans themselves to maximize the perceived connection between their political agendas and certain values deemed indispensable by the society in which they both interact. 
Thus, "pro-life" partisans seek to have all of us identify their political agenda-by and large concerned exclusively with fetal life -with our common commitment to life as God ­given. On the other hand, "pro-choice" par­tisans would have us identify their political agenda -largely concerned only with individ­ual power and who wields it-with our parallel commitment to freedom as God-given. In both cases, the names chosen reflect a deter­mination to obscure the ambiguityinherent in "life" and "choice", the ambiguity inherent in being responsible and responsive to the God who is the source ofboth life andfreedom and who gives both as gift, not right. That neither group has been able to completely manipulate its symbols can be seenfrom the negative epit­hets both groups hurl at one another. 
While this manipulative use of symbol sys-terns is understandable, it is not particularly faithful to the Gospel, for it ends up trying to escape the ambiguity of being human (read the story of the fall) by placing something created -in this case particular interpretations of doctrines about the nature of God and God's will -in the place that belongs only to God. Where I come from, substitution of that nature is accorded the label of idolatry. And please remember -idols are almost always good things.... in their place. They are only problematic when they usurp the rightful place ofGod. 

Militant 'pro-choice' partisans are 
idolatrous to the extent that they fail to see that the choice one must make in abortion is always ambiguous, that being responsible 
means becoming vulnerable, that being re­sponsible involves a genuine leap offaith. Sup­porting abortion as a right in every instance and for every reason seems indefensible on its face -at least for people of faith -since a re­sponsible and responsive decision, especially when the issue is life and its meaning, would be made in fear and trembling since it means standing naked before the judgment and grace ofGod. It is idolatry, not responsible disciples­hip to assert that a created value system of free-choice -alone has God's blessing in this matter. 
The "right-to-life" argument also risks be­
coming idolatrous, only in this case the 
created moral doctrine to be worshipped is 
not "choice" or "freedom" but "life", defined 
on the most narrow of bases-pre-natal, bio­
logical development. This position tends ­
even if unintentionally-to dismiss as trivial 
the moral dilemma faced by persons such as 
my wife and me who know that our gene 
pools contain the potential for giving birth to 
a child doomed to die of cystic fibrosis (a 
disease which has already claimed two of my 
brothers). For people in our position, the am­
biguity (and thus the need to choose) is nei­
ther hypothetical nor easy nor trivial. Because 
Jeanne and I have been nurtured by friends 
and family and, yes, a religious faith that prom­
ises meaning even in the face ofsuch risks, we 
cannot personally choose to abort the child 
we are now expecting on Saint Patrick's Day. 
But such is our choice. 

For others, the choice may well be differ­
ent. And in a political climate which seems to 
demand both limits and cuts in the funding 
needed just to heip a cystic fibrosis victim 
survive from day to day, I wonder how anyone 
but God could dare to judge the faithfulness 
and responsibleness of their decision? 
Rev.]. Frederick Holper Is a PhD candidate in theology atNotre Dame. 
"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t~-----------------------------------------Thu_r_sd_a~y,_o_c_t_ob_e_r_4_,_I9_8_4 ___
__ __~P_a~ge 9 
The Puerto Rican people need their independence 

For a long time, Puerto Rican political dis­cussion has revolved around the island's poli­tical status. Because Puerto Rico's political status has remained largely unresolved, even after the 1952 innauguration of the Common­wealth, it is the most basic issue in Puerto Rican politics today. Indeed, three of the four parties presenting candidates for the forthcoming November elections center their 
Lola Gordon Mora 
guest column 
platforms on the questions of political status: PNP (Statehood). PPD (Commonwealth) and PIP (Independence). The fourth party, the PRP, was created by a split within the PNP. Although it favors statehood as well, it has ht•en the only party not stressing the political status question -perhaps as a way of disas­sociating itself from the PNP in the minds of the electorate. 
Governor Carlos Romero Barcelo, head of the PNP, has claimed that the time has come for a referendum on the island's political status and, more than in previous elections, has focused his campaign on defending the prospt·ct of Puerto Rican statehood. One could argue that he has been forced into using the statehood issue to avoid other more im­mt•diate issues, namely, the corruption his party has been accused. The PNP, in coordina­tion with the Department of Police of Puerto Rico, have been implicated in the assassina­tion of two pro-independence youth. Also, several PNP public officials have been accused of misuse of public funds. Among those accused was the Secretary of Justice who subsequently was proven guilty and 
fired. 
It Is important to examine the situation sur­rounding Barcelo's defense of Puerto Rican statehood. Not only has he been in power for the past two terms, but it is very likely that he might win again. (The most recent political survey, held in August, gives his party 36 per­cent of the vote, followed by 34 percent for the PPD.) 
'Ibe PNP's promise of statehood for Puerto Rico basically amounts to one thing: federal aid. In one of its televised political advertise­ments, the figure of Dona Paquita is intro­duced. Paquita is, I assume, what the PNP considers a typical Puerto Rican. Paquita, most likely, lives in the cascrio, the public housing projects, and supports herself through welfare. Even though she is "thankful" for what the federal government gives her, she could certainly use more. 
Ay, bendito, Dona Paquito. The federal aid you have been made to see as a gift has cost Puerto Rico a pretty penny. Puerto Rico has little or no control in the following areas: 
Puerto Rico has no international personal­ity-its case is still under review by the United Nations' de-colonization committee. In the most recent session of that body, Venezuela supported a motion favoring independence for the island. · 
Trade and communications, air and marine transportation, immigration, emmigration, custom laws and tariffs are all controlled by non-Puerto Rican authoritt. 
lbe 1967 Treaty ofTiatelolco signed by the 
U.S. prohibits nuclear weapons in Latin America, yet the U.S. military maintains nu­clear installations on the island, making it a primary target in a nuclear war. 
Puerto Rico is used as a "pollution haven" by many American companies, Guanica and Catano being two of the most painful exam­ples of this destructive trend. 
The island's judicial system, which is sub­ject to review by the U.S. courts, is in such ridiculous disarray that this summer a federal court had to decide whether basketball season could he held. 
When American troops invaded Puerto Rico in 1898, they distributed bubble gum to the population. Since then, Puerto Ricans as myself have been pacified into a state of sub­mission and lack of self-esteem. There is an embarrassing lack ofawareness among Puerto Ricans oftheir past -as Puerto Rican history is barely touched upon in schools. As a conse­

quence, Puerto Rico's great patriots have 
been gradually converted into "non-persons." 
Governor Barcelo once remarked, "We have 
no culture to preserve." 

Because of its threat to U.S. strategic inter­ests, the once powerful Puerto Rican indepen­dence movement has been continually crushed. Local politicians have created mis­conceptions and fears about independence, and independence has been erroneously equated with Communism. Statehood will of­fer most Puerto Ricans a parasitic existence of perpetual poverty, accompanied by an incon­gruous and dizzy consumerist mentality, un­employment, and defeat. Puerto Ricans need independence so they can begin to reassert their own identity and self-respect. 
Lola Gordon Mora is a graduate govern­ment student at Notre Dame. 
Can Christianity transform society? 
lbere are three kinds ofsociety in the West­ern tradition that come to mind in the debate between rich and poor nations. They can be distinguished on the basis of the importance they attach to the supernatural and to worldly ambition, and also, on the basis oftheir wealth and prosperity. They are the Aztec society, the Greek society, and the Christian society. 
Some people hesitate to include the Aztecs among the Western people. Perhaps, the Az­tecs represent a class hv themselves and they 
Carlos Pardo guest column 
simply happened to live in the Western hemi­sphere. They invented a particular kind ofcos­mology -something that can be called the cosmology of utter despair. They were am­bitious in the sense that they built an empire and all that, but they were quite sure that their empire would be destroyed. They were con­vinced of the cruelty of the gods. 
Many people today, especially in poor countries, live in conditions similar to those of the Aztecs: overpopulation, technological stagnation, ignorance, scarcity or resources. Often times, they find resignation, but this is not always the case. The other alternative is despair. There is the temptation of violence and cruelty for their own sake (rather than as a means to improve social conditions). There is that sense of fatality -the fatality of conflict and hatred. It may appear that the gods of heaven demand human sacrifice. 
The Greek society is associated with tech­nological advance and worldly ambition. The Greeks were not, as the Aztecs, overwhelmed by the supernatural. In fact, they tended to 
ignore the supernatural or make it trivial. They were born as a heroic people and left to the Romans the precedent of a commercial empire. They developed human knowledge and man's reliance on himself. Their artistic and scientific accomplishments have an ele­ment ofhuman pride and defiance to the gods. 
Extremes have the tendency to meet. The Greek society shared with the Aztec society its propensity to violence and social injustice. Ambition creates stress; stress, neurosis; and neurosis, an incapacity for social life. In some respects, the modern society illustrates the pattern of behavior of the Greek kind of soci­ety. It is a secular and god-less society. The wars of the twentieth century are to a large extent the result of ambition and a lack of moral sense. The economic life ofthe century is driven by the same social insensitivity. In poor countries, if conditions continue to get worse and worse, the Aztec kind of society may prevail and represent both a time bomb and a permanent obstacle to development. 
The Greek and the Aztec societies have something in common. Both of them were, at a given time, transformed by Christianity. At the time of Christ, the Greek philosophy was in disarray-it had degenerated into astrology. 

Occult religions were starting to take hold of the common man. Christianity came to revi­talize and give a new direction to the Greek and Roman worlds. 
'!be Aztecs had established a dictatorship in Mexico when the Spaniards arrived to America and brought Christianity with them. The new religion at least liberated the Indians from their gods, who were more like monsters. Also the conquest exposed the Az­tecs for the first time to technology from other parts of the world. Christianity intro­duced an element of hope and social viability to both the Aztec and the Greek societies. It provided the Aztecs with a religion ofhope. It liberated the Greeks from a circular universe with no recourse to a higher order. 
Perhaps, Christianity again ha.'> to be called upon to transform the modern world. Mankind is in need of courage and hope, as well as moral standards. Societies need to be made to function. Poor countries need social cohesion to develop their economies and in­terrelate with other nations. Rich nations need to go back to basic moral standards if they want give structure to their own societies and deal justly with poor nations. 
It is to be hoped that the Aztec civilization of despair and the Greek civilization of worldly ambition will cease to be relevant to the present world. The debate between rich and poor nations will, hopefully, be carried out in the future in a spirit ofreconciliation. 
Carlos Pardo is an MBA student at Notre Dame. 
P.O.BoxQ 

Wills represents an apologetic generation 
/Jear Editor: 
'lbt• fact that Garry Wills now occupies an endowt·d chair at a distinguished Catholic university has evidently not induced him to tone down his tiresome anti-Catholic rheto­rk. '!bose striving to protect the lives ofinno­cent unborn children he disparingly labels zealots. (Remember when zeal in the defense of the weak was a virtue?) 'lbc Pope and bis­hops he contemptuously accuses of trying lO use the law to compensate for their all to ob­vious deficiencies a.~ moral educators. (Remember when we used to blame the sin­ncr for not listening to the teacher?) What's more, Wills is uncommonly fond of assuring us that a moral revolution has taken place and that it is thus useless for the zealots to turn hack the clock and "pretend that a return can he madt· to the old morality." (Remember that 
quaint Scriptural preoccupation with repen­tance and the forgiveness ofsins?) 
We must be on a Catholic campus; other­wise, Wills' invective wouldn't so readily evoke the biblical image of the apostate bowing down before Baal while earnestly as­suring jeremiah and those other cranky zealots that the sundial cannot he turned back and that an irreversible moral revolution has taken place. 
You might be wondering why the College ofArts and Letters is using endowment money to provide a pulpit, so to speak, for such as Wills. lbere is, I submit, much wisdom in this apparent folly. Our students should be con­stantly confronted with the image of that gen­eration of Catholic intdlcctuals, now middle-aged, for whom, to put it bluntly but honestly, it has become a way of life to apologize for being Catholic, who have quietly swept under the rug any doctrine spurned at Harvard or Princeton (or Northwestern), and who have meekly refrained from insisting upon any moral or re­ligious imperative that does not meet with the approval of the editorial board of the New York Times. (Remember when having the courage of one's convictions was praiseworthy among Catholics?) It's a sad spectacle, to be sure, but one which the pres­ent generation of Catholic students would do well to fix firmly in mind, so a.~ better to avoid reenacting it. 
Alfred]. Freddoso Associate Professor ofPhi(osopby 
The current arms situation is alarming 
Dear Editor: 
Paul Komyatte's article entitled "Has the Arms Control Era Come to an End?" (October 
2) put down in words how extremely com­plex the nuclear arms race has escalated into being. He has reminded me of how alarmed 1 am over the current situation. 

Let's face it: the two superpowers arc will­ing to give up very little of their weaponry. As if every last missile counted! If one side qid not have, for example, their desired amount of land-based missiles, will that make the oppos­ing side more the victor in a possible nuclear war? I just can't imagine a winner from an event that would have such a world-wide ef­fect a.'> nuclear war. 
I ask myself sometimes if it's worth the trou­ble worrying about somcthmg I am not an expert or official on But this concerns my future, everybody's futurt·. I feel the need to express my concern over the current stage of arms control, however little good that will do. 
Paula Miranda Lewis Hall 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edrtor-ln·Chrel. Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager Dave Taiclet Managrng Editor . . . Mark Worscheh Controller . Marrpal Horne 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper publrshed by the students of the News Edrtor Sarah Hamrlton Advertrsrng Manager Anne Culligan Unrversrty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessarily News Edrtor Dan McCullough Ctrculat/On Manager . Jeff O'Neill reflect the polrcres of the admmrstratron of e1ther mst1tut1on The news is reported as Sarnt Mary's Edrtor Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager . Kevin Williams accurately and as ob1ectrvely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tor1als represent the op1n1on Sports Edrtor. M1chael Sui' an ol a maJOrity of the Ed1tonal Board Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column Vrewpornt Editor Dave ,rote present the v1ews of the1r authors Column space IS avarlable to all members of the Features EditOr Mar· Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966

commun1ty. and the free expreSSIOn of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. Photo Edrtor . Petr. Laches rs encouraged 



Thursday, October 4, 1984-page 10
Sports Briefs 
The ND Ultimate Frisbee Club wm have 

practice tomorrow at 4:15p.m. Players are to meet in front ofStepan Center. For more information, call 283-1588.-The Obseroer Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third 
Afreshman swimming meetfor men and wo­

floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -The Obseroer 
men will be held Wednesday, October 10, at 7 p.m. Hall reps must turn in a list of entries to Coach Stark the day before the meet at the A beginners archery clinic wm be sponsored Rockne Building. Divers must submit a list of dives to Stark before 
by NVAon October 8, 9 and 11 from 4:15p.m. to 5:30p.m. each day. the meet. For more information, call 239-7042.-The Obseroer 
Unitedway
Deadline to register in person at the NVA office is tomorrow.-The 
see BRIEFS, page 11
Obseroer 

The Ohserr•er Notre Dame office. located on the third tloor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from') a.m. until -t p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Ohserr•er Saint Mary's otficc, located on tht· third tloor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12::10 p.m. until :'p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day cla"ifietls is :' p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters er day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
TYPING 
Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 

BOOKS BOUGHT SOLD & TRADE. THIS AD IS WORTH X-TRA 10/ DISC. PAN­DORAS BOOKS 937 SO.BEND AVE. 
ALL BUSINESS STUDENTS CAREER FORUM THUAS OCT. 4TH 7:00PM 122 HAYES-HEAlY 
VIDEO DANCE VIDEO DANCE VIDEO DANCE FRIDAY 9-2 CHAUTAQUA FEATURING THE BEST IN DANCE VIDEOS Sponsored by the Progressive Music Club VIDEO DANCE is free for club members, $1 for general public 
notre dame breeds wild wolf pups-watch out 
TYPING SEAVICE 277-6045 PICKUP AND DELIVERY 
TYPING-EXCEPTIONAL. 277-2512 

EXPERIENCED -TYPIST Will DO TYPING. CALL: 287-5162. 
Tom O'Brien ND'84 at Center tor Social Concerns-Fri. noon til 2-will talk about volunteer work with Central American refugees at Catholic Worker house in Houston. All invited. 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST: A GERMAN SHEPARD, BLACK MALE WITH CLIPPED EAR, AMHERST MA TAGS. CALL CARMEN AT 6580. 
LOST ONE BOTTLE OF J.D. ON SECOND FLOOR P.W. SAT. NIGHT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL SLUGGO AND ASSOCIATES AT 2985 
REWARD -LOST--MEN'S GOLD N.D. CLASS RING BLUE STONE INSCRIP­TION DJH '85-IF FOUND PLEASE CAll DAN AT 234-9515 OR 283-3429. 
LOST: Set of Keys on a 'MY KEYS' Key ring. If found please call272-0816 
LOST; IF ANYONE HAPPENED TO PICK UP A JEAN JACKET THAT DOES NOT BELONG TO THEM OR KNOWS THE WHEREABOUTS OF ONE THAT WAS LOST AT THE HOTEL CONTINEN­TAL IN CHICAGO DURING THE WATCHING OF THE NOTRE DAME LAST SATURDAY PLEASE CAll WARD AT 277-4568. 
LOST: (1) MICROECONOMICS TEXTBOOK BY RUFFIN & GREGORY and (2) MICRQ-ECONOMICS HOMEWORK PAPERS. If you have them or find them please call Frank at 3329 or bring them to 325 Keenan Hall. 
LOST: MY YOUTHFUL ENTHUSIASM. PLEASE RETURN 
WANTED 

WANTED: Female vocalist/guitarist for forming bend. Looking for the next Chrissie Hynde. Call2651. 
Need ride to I.U.Bioomington Oct 5 SMC­Sarah 5180 
lleed Ride To Fl for Break, call Karen 272-0816. 
Need ride to COLS.,OHIO Oct.5.Call SMC5252 
Part-time Night Bartender /Waitress Near N.D. call289-0186 
WANTED! NEEDED! ETC! 3 Tix for So. Carolina, student or GA call lou 287-6262 NOW! 
Wanted: 2 or 3 GA tix tor the Air Force geme. Call3359. 
FLORIDA Riders Needed to Gainesville, Fl. for Oct Break. leaving Thurs Oct 18. Arriving in time for GATOR GROWL. Call Cindy 284-5039 
HELP! Do you have hotel reservations for this Saturday night that you are not using? I need a roorn anywhere in the South Bend area. You can be a great help. Please call Kevin at 2153. 
I give GREAT beck massages. My price is twoS. Carolina or two Penn State GA tick­ets. Call1266, and we'll talk business. 
PART-TIME WORK IN TELEPHONE SALES. DOWNTOWN LOCATION. CAll288-2514 FROM 9 A.M. TO 8 P.M. 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND LEAVING ON 10/19. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1688 IF ABLE TO HELP. 
ATTENTION 
Need one PENN STATE GA or Student ticket. Buy or trade. Call Brian 1930 
HELP ME!I need 2 Miami GAs bad!Piease call Mike 4511. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs best offer call 1213 
78 VOLVO WAGON 4-SPEED OVERDRIVE,FUEL-INJECTED,NEW TIRES;54000 MILES GOOD CONDITION.$4200.282-1594. 
FOR SALE: Student ticket for rest of season (4 games). I want to sell this as a unit. Call Mike, 234-4538. 
FOR SALE-2 MIAMI TIX, BEST OFFER, CAll TOM 1808 
I HAVE 2 AIR FORCE TICKETS. I NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS. LET'S MAKE A TRADE. CAll JIM AT 4357. 
FOR SALE PIONEER SX450 STEREO RECEIVER, ALSO PIONEER PROJECT 100 STEREO SPEAKERS, ALSO SHARP GF9494 GHETTQ-BLASTER CAll277-0191 
2 AIR FORCE GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 10/11. CALL JANET AT 4376 
For Sale: 1 MIAMI STUD TIX,best of­fer ,call 3052 
FOR SALE: 4 MIAMI GAs serious offers only call 2333 
FOR SALE: 1 MIAMI Student ticket. Beat offer. x 1305 
TICKETS 
FACT: The Air Forca game is coming up soon. FACT: Two people I know are coming up 
soon. 
FACT: They don't have tickets, but want to see the game. FACT: I need two tickets. FACT: My name is MATT.! carryabedge. CONCLUSION: If you don't call 2577 soon and sell me two GA's to the Air Force game, I'm going to do something terrible to your dog. 
I need one GA for MIAMI game. Call Terry, 3305. 
Help! We need MIAMI tix. Call Rob 1784 Kathy4071 
Yo, I need a whole bunch of Air Force tick­ets. I'm talking large quantities. Vast amounts. lots and lots of 'em. Can we talk? Call the Alien at 2539 
SOUTH CAROLINA TICKETS I need some, that's all. Call the Alien at 2539 
Need 1 stud. tckt. to Air Force. Alan at 3128. 
I NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL BRIAN 3677. 
NEED MIAMI TIX. CAll JOHN AT 2246 OR 1296. 
Need Miami Tix! Will pay big bucks! Call 234-5545. endad 
I NEED2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL DAVE D. AT 
1606. 
WANTED! WANTED! WANTED! 
Need 4 G.A. tlcketa to the South carotlnelootbell game on October 20. Willing to Mil eherea oii.B.M. atock to finance deal. Cell Merk W. et 283-2045 or23S..5313. 
I NEED MIAMI & ANY HOME GAME GAS. 272-6306 
DESPERATE!! DESPERATE!! DESPER­ATE!! FOR 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET!! Will PAY$$!! CALLLINDA277-6856 AIR FORCE TIX need GA's or stud call Tom 
Need 5 South Carolina G.A.'s. Will pay ANY reasonable or unreasonable price. Call Chuck at 277-6398 or 239-7673. 
NEED MIAMI TIX!! Keith 4216 
HELP!!! NEED 2 SO.Carolina GA's Please call PAUL: 4006 
I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE S. CAROLINA GAME DESPERATELY !!! $$$$$ Will Pay Well $$$$$ Cell Cliff at 4511 NOW! 
Need 1 or 2 Miami Tics. Call Heidi at 232­0438 
PLEASE!! This the first and only chance for my parents to see a Notre Dame foot­ball game (I'm a senior). I need tix for the Miami game. Kathleen x3605. Thanks. 
SEND A SCHLEPPER TO THE MIAMI GAME: Will pay big bucks for one lousy ticket. Cell Jeff Chou at 3347. SPECIAL BONUS: ONE FREE RIDE ON THE L­TRAIN. 
TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL STEVE AT x1803. 
OH GOD, do I need Miami tickets! Oh, yes I do! I need Miami tickets! like, I really need Miami tickets! Oh, yes! like never before! Miami tickets! Aaaaaaahhhh! Plee..lulllll Greg'a lnntleble eppetlte at2532. 
SOUTH CAROLINA Will trade 3 end zone GA's and 2 student tickets for 3 respectable GA's. 4278 
Need4 Miami Tix! GA's. Call Kathy,3781. 
I need two G.A. tickets to S.C. game desperately. Please call Joanne at 4046. 
HELP!NEED THREE MIAMI TIX. CALL TOMAT3588 
HELP! I really, really need 3 Miami GA's. If you've got some, call Eric 3654. 
Need 4 SC tix, CALL DAVE 1700 
I HAVE MIAMI TIX!!!!!! I NEED PENN 
STATE TIX!!! IF YOU CAN HELP ME IN 
THIS TRADE CALL DOUG 3859. 
Need 2 MIAMI TIX-Student or G.A. Call 
Heather 2594 
Need Miami ticket-student or G.A. Call 
Miriam4174 
I REALLY NEED 3 TICKETS FOR THE AIR FORCE GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT 272-6278. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!!!!! 
I HAVE MIAMI STUDENT TIX-I WILL TRADE FOR PENN STATE G.A. TIX CALL(277-7570) 
IN DIRE NEED OF A MIAMI STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT 3281. 
I NEED MIAMI TIX! I NEED MIAMI TIX! IF YOU CAN HELP CAll JEFF 3859 
Desparately need four GA's to Miami game!! Please call Mark 2443 
FOR SALE: 1 Miami and 2 Air Force Stu­dent Tix. Rena 3765 
YOt NEED TWO TIX FOR AIR-FORCE GAME!! PLEASE!!! CAll 1871 
NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S TOGETHER­CALL GEORGE 277-6464 
FRIENDS WANT TO BE PART OF THE WAVE! NEED MIAMI STUD/GA TIX! DIAL H-E-l-P PLEASE! 
MIAMI STUDENT TICKET yyyPLEASEyyy NEEDED VERY BADLY!! GINA:3712 THANKS!!! 
NEED TWO MIAMI STUDENT TIX: CALL DAN 239-7668 DAYS; 233-6254 eves 
Need two tickets to MIAMI game student or GA --phone 1250 
HELP! NEED 4 PENN STATE TIX! CALL SUE3843 
Syndicate is after me for 3 Miami tickets, call Chris 3055. 
I need 2-5 G.A.'s for the SOUTH CAROLINA game. Call Steve at 283­2943 after 11 p.m. 
NEED: 4 MIAMI GA'S BAD' JOHN 3467 
NEED 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET,PAUL,2361 
2 MIAMI STUDENT TIX TOGETHER FOR SALE.CAll 277-3170 MAKE OF­FER. 
Help! I Still Need Miami GAA's. Please call 233-9415 
DON'T SELL ME YOUR TROJAN tick­eta. I need your PENN STATE G.A.a. ca11 Nick et 1580. 
I'LL SELL MY TROJAN'S In order to buy S.c. G.A.a. can Berry at 3815. 
WANTED 4 TICKETS FOR AIR FORCE GAME. WILL PAY CALL COLLECT, ELKHART 264-1761 
Need 4 GA'a lor PENN STATE. can Kevin at 287-6262. 
MIAMI GAS FOR SALE.2726306 
NEED 3 S. CAROLINA GA'S PLEASE!! TODDX1688. 
HELP! NEED 2 GA'S FOR SO. CAR­CAll MARY BETH 284-4366 
Need Miami tix stu. or G.A. 284-5087 
$$$ NEED MANY PENN STATE TIX. 
CAll KEVIN x2092. 
My two innocent sisters from West (by God) Virginia are coming in for the South carolina game and they'll be heartbroken ,if they can't get tickets. I'll need two stu­
dent tix, please. can ZEKE at 2045. 
NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S RALPH 1486 
6 MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE Best Offer Eric 1528 
I NEED 1 MIAMI GA-CALL MIKE 1723 
HELP! NEED 3 GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. ALLISON 3397 
FOR SALE: MIAMI STUDENT TIX CALL 277-7570 
PERSONALS 
Ride needed to near Harrisburg, PA, over Oct. break. Usual$$. Alan at3128. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER, NY. LEAVING 10/19 AND RETURNING 10/28. CALL FRANK AT 1422. 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED CAll THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE 272-4453 MON-THU 8-11PM FRI-SAT8PM-1AM 
ljuat -ntto be punauedl 
TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL STEVE AT x1803. 
LARRY BURKE: Coffee, tea, or me? 
Theo Majora: Don't min the Theology Forum tonight et 7 pm In 341 O'Sheg. Speak.,.: Fr. McBrien end Dr. Weever. 
"Pat O'Shaughnessy is the most gor­geous hunk on campus. If you are reading this, Pat, I stare at your buns in Econ." 
Need 2 MIAMI TIX-Student or G.A. Call Heather-2594 
CampusViewSweatshirtsl2720816. 
Hurricanes must perish !! Kosar is a dead man!! 
LET'S MAKE A DEAL! I will give you three (3!) student tickets to the Penn Stele game, plua extra for your trouble, if you will give me three (3!) GA's to the Penn Stele game. Think about it. Then call Mary at 1333. 
YOU know lt'e Rockln Joe King, donche Beev? Saturday, Oct. 6 et Stepan (elter the Mleml game)! Only $2.50 In edvence, or $3.50 et the door. Reel mualc Ia here et NO! 
The Benglea ena coming! The Benglee ere coming! 
HeyTeu Baby I want to have your pups. 
SENIOR CLASS PARTY! Thurs., Oct. 4, 9:30PM Frank's Placa 327 W. Marion SENIORS-THURS. NIGHT AT FRANK'S! 
SENIORS! Interested in a post-graduate volunteer experience abroad? Check out the Holy Cross Associates Program in Chile. See Mary Ann Roemer at Center for Social Concerns Application deadline Nov.1. 
COLLEGE REPUBLICANS COLLEGE REPUBLICANS MEETING AM 204 OS­HAG 7PM THURSDAY. REAGAN STICKERS Will BE HANDED OUT! 
PIGS ABDUCTED ? Hint: YEEE! 
HAPPY 19th HIRSCH! Have a great day! Beware of Stone Chairs! 
Christo, 00, and Danny Mo are coming! 
ANN MURPHY turns 20 in 20 days! Gentlemen start your engines. 
Debbie Buchanan-great job on the room! How 'bout next week? 
Bill thanks for the brownies, they were fantastic-tess beby 
tess baby lives forever 
JIM CAVANAUGH Remember, age is relative. Just because you started college when we were learn­ing to cotor in the lines.. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY to a swell ol' guy! -Assorted juveniles 
MEN OF NO-warm up your lips!Get ready to wish CATHIE LOHMULLER a happy b­day SUNDAY OCT.7' 
INTERESTED IN FINDING OUT MORE ABOUT THE PEACE CORPS? A REP­RESENTATIVE Will CONDUCT A FILM SEMINAR AT THE CENTER FOR SO­CIAL CONCERNS TONIGHT, THURSDAY, OCT. 4 AT 7PM. All STU­DENTS WELCOME 
FOOD! Pre-game CAMBODIAN EGG ROLLS at the Center for Social CON­CERNS, SAT. 3-6:30. STOP BY! 
PITT CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS: Monday Oct. 8 in the LaFortune little Theater (6-7 pm) ... SPECIAL REDUCED RATES!!!!! $40.00 round trip, $28.00 one way. Busses will leave Saturday, Oct. 20th (after the game). If demand is strong enough, we will also sponsor a bus to depart on Friday, October 19th. Any ques­tions call Tom Farnan at 1650. 
I AM GOING TO BE ONE HURTIN' UNIT UNLESS I GET 3 MIAMI TIXI PLEASE CALL MARY AT 2662 OR ELSE THIS COULD BE THE END OF SOME BEAU­TIFUL FRIENDSHIPS I 
OBSERVERSTAFFFORUM MONDAY,7P.M. NEW ORLEANS ROOM (ecrou !rom Student Actlvltt• office on 111 floor LaFortune) 
DESPERATELY NEEDED two student tickets to the Air force Game. Will pay! Call Heidi at SMC 4407 
NEW JERSEY!! What a great place to live. I Need a ride back to ND/SMC from Morristown area on 10/28. If anyone needs riders call SMC-5519-Jeanne 
She cut it off! She cut it off! 
NO LIONEL RITCHIE .. NO TWISTED SISTER.. NO WAYNE NEW­TON .. GUARANTEED. Progreealve Mualc preaente: A VIDEO DANCE Friday, S..2, Cheteuque VIDEO DANCE Ia FREE lor PMC Membena, $1 Gen...l Public 
Progreulve Mualc Membena: Did you gete copy ol the -letter? II not, cell Keith at 3345. O.C. membena can get their copl• et lnlo deek, 1et floor LeFor1une 
RAY and PETE SERIAL4 So what did you guys do last weekend? And why do you have this fascination with South Bend high school girls? Don't you know you can get in trouble for that kind of stuff? Ray, the odds of you staying in school are improving, but the odds of your brain surviving are getting worse. Go to the SYR, you total loser. 
Have you hugged a SKI DOER today? 
OBSERVER STAFF FORUM All Obeerver writ.,., edltore, photog­raph.,., production people, etc. ere Invited to The Obeerver'a alllff forum on Monday, 7 p.m. In the New Orleena Room on the llnat floor ol LeFor1une. Toplca o1 dlacuulon Include The Obeerver'a public Image, quellty ol our product end efficiency In producing the peper each night. Let your oplnlona be known. 
I was only looking for a sweet distraction for a hour or two Had no intention to do the things we've done 

COME DANCE ON THE FIELDHOUSE MAll FRIDAY NIGHT--EVERYONE Will BE THERE!!' 
oh, mr. greenfield!! OH, MR GREEN­FIELD!! 
GROSO: Have a nice Thursday. Just re­member, if you break it, you've bought it. Love, us. 
You'II all be sorry when I'm dead and gone and all this guilt will be on your head. Wee Thomas 
Frank, Care to go to Denny's again. I un­derstand they have good bagels. You never know you could have fun. 
DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE GRACE HALL PARTY ROOM FRIDAY OCT.5 9:30 TO 1:30 $1 ADMISSION DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE 
HEADSTAR7 

I was only looking for a sweet distraction for a hour or two Had no intention to do the things we've dona 
HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY ANJA.Son los deseos de Ius amigos Tony, Tito, Gilbert. Juan, Scott, Raquel y Jose. 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY PAM BOMBEI!! Pam has to buy her own booze because her friends are still too YOUNG! Sorry you 'lost' your drivers license' love, All the Gang 
"HARRY" WANTS EVERYONE TO SING: "TAKE ME OUT TO THE BAL­LGAME" 
MR. CARAY HAS REQUESTED THIS FOR THE END OF THE THIRD QUAR­TER. 
BATTLESHIP SCORES!!! 
MOOSE2 
JOEMAN5 
Now I have seen the sad surrender in my lover's eyes And I can only stand apart and sympathize: For we are always what our situations hand us: It's either sadness or euphoria. 
BLESS YOU BOYS Come watch the Tigers on their way to the World Series Farley Hall Party Room Friday, Oct. 5 Game time 7:25 Ques. call Patti 4033 
GO GET 'EM TIGERS Watch the Tigers roll over the Royals. Farley Hall Party Room Friday Game time 7:25 ??? call Patti4033 
THE WAVE THE BLEACHERS LESS FILLING...TASTES GREAT TIGERS OVER THE ROYALS FRIDAY FARLEY HALL PARTY ROOM 
and the LORD said: 'The cry of SODOM AND GOMORRHA is multiplied, and their sin is become exceedingly grievous. I will spare the whole place tor their sake if I find in Sodom 50 just on Saturday.· GENESIS 
18:20 PLEASE HELP THE BAD BOYS FROM BOSTON SAVE NOTRE DAME, BECAUSE YOU KNOW THERE AIN'T NEVER BEEN A HURRICANE IN SOUTH BEND! SATURDAY 1:00PM BLACKOUT AT SODOM AND GOMOR­RHA 
FOR JUNIORS INTERESTED IN BEING ON JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND EX­ECUTIVE COMMITTEE: Meeting wtll be tonlte et 6:30 In LaFortune Little Theetre. II you cen't meke It, cell Julie 814251 
MICHELLE: I MAY BE WRAPPED AROUND THE BEEF, BUT A TLEASTI'M NOT LIVESTOCK. REVENGE IS SWEET. LUV & KISSES 
P. MURPHY-THE ONLY DJ THAT MAT­TERS! WVFI AM 640, FRIDAY NITE 9­11! 
DUNK TANK THIS FRIDAY IN FRONT OF DILLON All PROCEEDS GO TO THE UNITED WAY DUNK YOUR FA­VORITE CAMPUS CELEBRITY DIGGER PHELPS AT 4:00!!!!!! 
DUNK DIGGER ON FRIDAY AT 4:00 IN FRONT OF DILLON FOR THE UNITED WAY DILLON DUNK TANK DILLON DUNK TANK DILLON DUNK TANK DIL­LON DUNK TANK 

------------------------------·----------------­

-~ 
Observer Thursday, October 4, 1984-page 11 
.................................... 
For the second straight day, the like the bad guy, like the guy who is of the seventh inning in Chicago. National League used amateur trying to take baseball away from Leadoff batter Ryne Sandberg hit a:Buy ! 
umpires to replace the striking America." grounder to the right of shortstop: Observer ! regulars. And, again, there were only But baseball went on in Chicago, Garry Templeton, who went deep in four umps in the NL, while the Amer-with Game 2 of the NL playoffs, with the hole, fielded the ball and threw
: classifieds: ican League used six. steak-and-seafood salesman Dave to first. 
t••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• The reasoning was that these Slickenmeyer behind home plate, Pomponi immediately and em­phatically called Sandberg safe. Dick Williams, the San Diego manager, came out of the dugout and argued briefly with Pomponi over the call.COMPUTER ~;~~ 
On a television replay, Sandberg ap­peared to be out. The call became
~ § 

moot moments later when Dave
8 ~ Dravecky picked Sandberg off first 
MAJORS 
~ An organizational meeting will be held ~ base. 

Blake Cullen, the NL supervisor of
~ Thursday, October 4 at 6:30p.m. ~ 

I 
umpires and director ofinformation,WOULD RATHER ~ in LaFortune Little Theatre § said that Phlllips and Feeney had met yesterday and, that boded well for an 
~ for all interested in working on the 

early resolution to the dispute. But, 
· BYTEINTO 
he added the cautionary word,
~ Junior Parents Weekend ~ 

"eventually." ~ Executive Committee j lbere were six umpires at the AL
DOM.INO'S 
playoffs but only four for the NL.
l-..r..r.r.r~..r..r..r...oo-..r..r..r..r..r..r..r...oo-..r..r..r.r..r...o"'..r..r..r..r..r..r.AX>"'"..r..r..r...cr.r...c-

Cullen also said the NL would stay with four and that if the strike is not 
settled by today, the NL would hire "guys who worked together in 1979."
277-2151 
He added that for the World Se­ries, "We'll probably get one crew from all around." 
The key issues in the dispute in­$1 00 oH any pizza. volve pay and job security, two areas 
PIZZA. 
$1.00 

One coupon per p1zza 
covered for only two years in the four-year contract agreement
Off 

Fast, Free Delivery•w 
reached April 5, 1982. Those parts of
Plaza 23 Center 
the contract expired Sunday, when
1835 South Bend Ave. 
the regular season ended. 

Phillips said the pay increase being offered now by the major leagues amounted to fi39,000, to be divided among 6 I umpires. "TV money has gone from S50 million in 1983 to S200 million in 1984," he said. "We are supposed to get ashare of that. We are orbits apart." 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page /0 
The ND Water Polo Club will play host to its annual fall tournament this weekend. Notre Dame will take on the University of Cincinnati at 7 p.m. tomorrow, Kenyon College at 10 
a.m. Saturday and Ohio State University at l p.m. Saturday. Indiana University also will participate in the tournament. Admission is free. 
-The Observer 
The Co-Ree basketball entry deadline is next Wednesday, October 10. Rosters consisting offive men and five wo­men should bl· submitted to the NVA office with a S I 0 entry fee. All men on a team must live in the same hall, but women may participate on an "at large" basis. -The Observer 
The Co-Ree volleyballentry deadline is next Wed­nesday, October 10. Rosters of eight to 12 men and women should be .~ubmirted to the NVA office. Six players -three men and three women -may participate at one time in the best-of-five matches. ­
The Observer 
A singles racquetball tourney is being sponsored by NVA. Entries may be made at the NVA office until next Wednesday, October 10.-The Observer 
Asingles handball tourneyis being sponsored by NVA. For more Information and entry forms, stop by the NVA office by Wednesday, October I0.-The Observer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will be meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. New members are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
The ND Men's Volleyball Club will have 
practice tonight at 7 p.m. In the ACC pit. -The Observer 
The ND lacrosse teamwill be meeting at noon on Sunday at Cartier Field for team pictures. -The Observer 
The Fall Festival flag football tournament was won by The Cobra Corps. The team downed Its opponents by scores of31-0, 
4 1-6,  5'S-l2  and  39-12.  The Cobra  Corps players  were:  Mike  
Marinkovich,  Dan Sullivan, John Simonelli, Rob Treuting,  Dave  
Krcglovlts, Rick Louthan and Kevin Bolin. -The Observer  

Series moves to San Diego 

Cubs take 2-0 lead with 4-2 victory 
Associated Press umpires were more accustomed to a the home run yesterday, the Cubs four-man crew, and while their per­did not allow their offensive ma­
CHICAGO -Bob Dernier trans­formance was not flawless, it was chine to grind to a halt. formed speed into a pair of Chicago without serious controversy. runs and Steve Trout continued to That was because the Cubs con­Matthews drove in one run, silence San Diego's bats yesterday as tinued to dominate -both from· the making it a playoff record five the Cubs beat the Padres 4-2 and standpoint of pitching and offense. straight games in which he has had at took a two-games-to-none lead in The Padres got only two hits in least one RBI. Matthews and Cey, the National League Championship seven innings off Sutcliffe in Game who also drove in a run, now have Series. One, finishing with six. 13 career playoff RBI apiece, two 
The Cubs moved to within one While they did not prosper from fewer than San Diego's Steve Garvey. victory of advancing to their first World Series since 1945. 
Since the current division format was instituted in 1969, no National 
Series at a glance
League team has lost the first two playoff games and won the series. 
Thursday's game
NATIONAL LEAGUE have done it in the American League. 
Only the 1982 Milwaukee Brewers Chicago at San Diego, 7:35p.m. EST 
The Cubs won the opening game Eckersley ( 10-8) vs. Whitson ( 14-8)13-0 Tuesday. Trout, 13-7, adding 
Tuesday's game another laurel to the best season of Saturday's game
his career, gave up only five hits, 
Chicago 13, San Diego 0 struck out two and walked three Chicago at San Diego, 7:2'; p.m. ESTbefore giving way with one out in (if necessary)the top of the ninth to Lee Smith. 
Yesterday's game Smith, who had 33 saves during 
Sunday's game
the season, struck out Carmelo Mar­
Chicago 4, San Diego 2 tinez and got Terry Kennedy on a Chicago at San Diego, 3:05p.m. ESTlong fly to left to preserve the vic­
(Chicago leads series, 2-0) 
(ifnecessary)tory. 
The wind in Wrigley Field changed dramatically from Game One to Game Two, and so did the 
Still no progress made 
nature. 
The Cubs used five homers -two by Gary Matthews -to rough up San Diego in Game One. In Game Two, 
in umpire controversy 

the wind died, and the Cubs turned to the speed of Dernier to Associated Press physical education teachers Joe manufacture two important runs. Pomponi at first base and Joe Maher Dernier went from first to third on a Richie Phillips, attorney for strik­at second, and retired pilot Dick ground ball before scoring in the ing umpires, met Tuesday night with Cavanaugh at third. first inning, and he stole a base and American League President Bobby The AL crew in Kansas City was scored in the fourth. Brown and yesterday with National Bill Deegan, who umpired for 10 
In between, the Cubs scored League President Chub Feeney as years in the majors, John Bible, twice in the third inning on a double the major league playoffs continued Randy Christal, Larry Zirbel, Harold by Cey and a sacrifice fly by Jody with amateur umpires on the field. Jordan and Mike O'Dell. Davis. Before taking a flight from Kansas The quartet that umpired 
Thus, the Cubs, who last won the City, where the Detroit Tigers were Chicago's 13-0 victory in Game l NL pennant in 1945, inched closer beating the Royals last night, to with a minimum ofcontroversy, also to glory again, while the Padres Chicago, where the Cubs defeated worked during the seven-week faced virtual elimination. The series the San Diego Padres 4-2 for their strike in 1979 and has worked to­moves to San Diego tomorrow night second straight playoff victory, Phil­gether in Big Ten Conference col­for Game Three. Games Four and lips said he had come to the league lege baseball. Five, if necessary, are scheduled for presidents because "I have to A minor controversy arose on a Saturday and Sunday at San Diego. posture myself so that I don't seem close call at first base in the bottom 
The Observer Thursday, October 4, 1984-page 1 

Illinois State takes first place 

Irish finish third in tournament 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN were defeated by eventual cham­problem is finding the right uu,uo,•e~ Sports Writer pion Illinois State. In Sunday's play, combinations. the Irish suffered another defeat, this "We have no returning doubles 
In their first competition of the time to Oral Roberts by a 6-3 score. teams this year," said the Irish coach, 1984 fall season, the Notre Dame Coach Tom Fallon was pleased by "and right now we're experimenting men's tennis team finished third in his team's performance, however. with different pairs. We should have last weekend's Irish Invitational it worked out by our next match." Tournament. Illinois State captured "The teams we played were Fallon is very optimistic about this the top prize while Oral Roberts tough," said Fallon, "and they are a year's team and feels that with a little University came in second. Round­good cross-section of the teams more competition and experience ing out the field was the University we'll be playing throughout the the 1984-85 squad will be better of Evansville. year. Overall, I was satisfied with our than last year's 25-9 team. 
play. The matches were close. We The Irish play next at Ohio Uni­
On Saturday, Notre Dame opened have a lot of new faces this year in­versity in a quadrangular match at the tourney by defeating Evansville, cluding two freshman and a sopho­the end of October. Also competing 6-3. Later in the day, though, the more who didn't play last year." will be the University of Kentucky fortunes of the Irish changed as they Fallon felt that the team's main and Eastern Kentucky University. 
stand. I feel I've been doing a lot of 
interpreting, trying to get things to
Josie Golf 

make sense and not intimidate continuedfrom page 16 people. continuedfrom page 16 "I'm so excited about what's been freshmen and sophomores just to going on this year. It's a world ofdif­build for the future. ference from what's been going on was characterized by a total team ef­
• 
"When someone is touted to be in the past. I'm learning so much and fort. The complete team of such a great coach, you want to play volleyball is fun. If you're challenged O'Donovan, Fehrur, freshman Rich for him," says the South Bend native . in the gym, feel like you're making Connelly, sophomore Chris Bona, 
.. "I listen to him and have confidence improvements, and have a coach and junior Lon Huffman contributed in what he says. He lays it on the line, who really keeps track of the to Notre Dame's surprising finish.
• defines things well, admits if he players' progress, it makes the time The young squad hopes this ex­makes a mistake, and has a good idea spent worthwhile." cellent finish will springboard them of what he wants on the court. They say that you get out ofsome­to capturing the 12th Annual Fall In­During a game, it's good to have thing what you put into it, so it is no vitational Golf Tournament, hosted someone who you can have confi­surprise that Josie Maternowski is by Notre Dame on Monday, Oct. 8 at dence in. having an excellent senior year. the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
"When he first got here, he really put things in perspective. He told us that everyone would have a chance 

Reeves wants Broncos 
to play. He said that never again 
would we (the seniors) have the op­
portunity to play for him and that 

to take success in stride 
really caught on with me. 

"In a way, I almost didn't believe Associated Press the stands -with Bronco running W eissenhofer also IDled in ad­that he'd just play anybody," she back Sammy Winder on the cover. mirably for Tony Furjanic at inside adds, "but I'm pretty competitive DENVER -Denver Broncos Coach Are the Broncos for real? Prob­
Defense 
linebacker. Although Weissenhofer and I couldn't see myself on the Dan Reeves had modest goals for his ably. But it's much to early in the did not see much action, his efforts bench, so I just wanted to come back young team heading into the 1984 season to say for certain. 
continuedfrom page 16 

did not go unnoticed. at the end ofthe summer and play so National Football League season: im­"I'm worried about our players "Weissenhofer has done a great well that he had to play a senior. I prove each week, learn from its in­believing everything they hear,"just 14 points, two of which were 
job," said Faust. don't know why I ever doubted him evitable mistakes, try not to play Reeves said yesterday. "The fact is, if scored on a safety. 
This 6-3, 227-pound junior is an­because he judges you just on your itself out of playoff contention by we don't play hard every game, we It was satisfying for Kiernan to be 
other defensive player who has a his­performance." the halfway point ofthe season. can get beat. We're not a team that's able to finally play, after an knee in­tory of mJuries. Weissenhofer Maternowski's respect for Lam­"We're too young to even think going to blow away our opponents.
juryforced him to sit out the last two missed the entire '83 season and the bert can only be matched by Lam­about going to the Super Bowl," Potential was a word that only the seasons. His knee required surgery '84 spring drills because ofa broken bert's respect for her. Reeves said during training camp. kindest of observers applied to the to the point where it was wrist. He was pleased with his per­"Josie has been an absolute But whether he likes it or not, Broncos entering this season. Thisreconstructed. Although he would formance and is confident he can surprise and delight to coach," he some of his players have begun en­was a team being led by a quarter­like to think this catastrophe is be­
help the team. says. "She's a very engaging young tertaining thoughts of Palo Alto in back who struggled during hishind him, Kiernan admits that his W eissenhofer felt that Missouri lady and a great competitor. Need­January. A 4-1 record, including last rookie season, with an almost non­knee will never be the same again. 
had a well-balanced attack which less to say, I'm very impressed with week's 16-13 victory over the world existent running attack, and with a Despite this, Kiernan was a major made them difficult to defend her. The only regret I have is that champion Los Angeles Raiders, does defense that was beginning to show force in Notre Dame's victory over 
against. she's a senior." that to a team. The anticipatory fer­signs of age and was sure to feel the the Tigers. 
This weekend is an important one It is not surprising that Mater­vor only will be intensified when loss ofone ofthe game's best middle"I was thrilled to have the oppor­for the Irish football team. An im­nowski is one of the most valuable this week's Sports Illustrated hits linebackers, Randy Gradishar. 
tunity to help the team," said Kier­pressive victory over Miami would players on the team both on and off 
nan. 
help the team regain the national the court. Her experiences of the "After the game, I never saw a kid respect and recognition that it feels past three years have made her a happier," said Faust "All of the hard 

it deserves. A loss could result in the good advisor for some of the work and frustration paid off when 
beginning of another mediocre younger student-athletes on the 

1'~~:~:;:::1
he did an excellent job in the game." 
season. squad.Kiernan thought the front line of 
The game will probably be close "This year I seem to be doing a lot Mizzou was big and tough. He noted and hard fought. The current injur­of mediating," explains Mater­that the center in particular was ies don't help Notre Dame's nowski. "The things that Coach asks quick offthe ball and seemed to have chances, but will show the true char­for are a little different and new to 

118061 S:~.~:o::::: ~e~~:~;e~:·d7.~d~~J" D. 
••••.
a head start on the rest of the line. 
acter of the team. If solid perfor­people, like really working on out­This key reserve also realizes that mances are made by the reserves, as thinking the opponent. Some of the 

Miami's line isn't going to be any seen in last weekend's game, the younger players never have had a ::~: Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK}: easier to penetrate. Despite all the 
outcome could be a little different strong mental game and I think it's /South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 277-2870}
injuries, Kiernan feels the Irish will 
from last year. hard for some of them to under­

~3.L:::·:·:·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::~::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::~
be ready for the game. 

"We are looking forward to Miami," says Kiernan. "We want to get them. We owe them something from last year." 
TI-l€ 

Kiernan wasn't the only reserve to deserve some credit, however. Ron 

Support 
March of Dimes 


Need LSU Tix Call collect eves. 
504·291·0642 


HC5TI--l0Ll5E 
by Harold Pinter 
A fascinating, hilarious play! 

8 p.m. October 5, 6, 11, 12 & 13 Saint Mary's Little Theatre General Public $3.00 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Community $2.50 All seats reserved Box Office: ~84-4626 
I 


IHEKIRQ___ 


The Observer Thursday, October 4, 1984 -page 13 
A.'I!IOdated Pres.'l 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. -john Grubb belted a two-run double off Kansas City rdief ace Dan Quisenberry in the I I th innin~o: and Detroit's helea~o:uered bullpen preserved the: Ti~o:ers' '5-3 triumph ovt·r the: Royals last nijo\ht for a commanding 2-0 lc:ad in the Amt·rican League Champion­ship St·ries. 
The Tigers, baseball's most domi­nant team during the regular season, willjo\o for a swet·p of the best-of-five st•ries Friday nijo\ht hack in Detroit. 
The situation was the same in the National Lt·ague playoff where the Chicago Cubs, aftt·r heating the San Dil'go Padres 4-2 Wt'dnesday, nt·t·ded just one mort' victory to win lhdr firs! pennant sincl' 194'5. 'lne oppont·nts in that Series -the Cubs and !he Ti~o:ers. 
Only om· tt·am · tht· Milwaukee Bn·wl'rs in 1982 -ever has come hack to win tht• best-of-five playoff after losing the first two games. 
K;msas City's third error of the game opened tht· gates for tht· Tigers in tht· I I !h. Lance Parrish started the inning by linin~o: a single off the glove of diving third baseman (irl'g Pryor, who had t·ntert·d tht· gaml' as a pinch-runner for Brt·U in the lOth. Darrell Evans then laid down a ~oacrifi<.·e hunt, and wht•n catcher Don Slaujo\ht fumbled tht· hall, run­ners wen: at first and second. 
Ruppt·rt jones hunted into a force out at third, hut Grubb lined a hall over the head ofcenter fielder Willie 
Wilson for the winning margin. 
Aurelio Lopez took over Detroit reliever Willie Hernandez in the ninth. 'lne Royals managed put runners at first and second with two outs in tht· I Oth, hut Steve Bal­boni flied to center to end the threat. 
In the II th, the Royals again put two runners on base, with a one-out single by Slaujo\ht and a two-out in­field single by Wilson. But jones flied out to rijo\ht to end the game. 
It was Detroit's ninth straijo\ht vic­tory at Royals Stadium, including an· 8-0 mark this season. 
'Inc Tigers took a 3-2 lead into the cijo\hth when Detroit Manager Sparky Anderson removed starter Dan Petry, who had allowed four hits, and hroujo\ht in Hernandez to protect the lead. But jones singled to rijo\ht and, after George struck out, pinch-hitter Hal McRae lined a double into the left field cor­ner to tie the score. 
The game was worked by a fill-in crew ofumpires, who took the place of the striking regulars umps. 'Inc only controversy came in the fifth when Willie Wilson was called out on strikes by Hill Deegan, a major­league umpire for I 0 seasons who retired in 1980. 
Wilson jumped up-and-down, had to be restrained by third-base coach Mike Ferraro and tossed his bat and helmet in the air, but remained in the game. 
Series at a glance 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Friday's game 
Kansa~ City at Detroit, 7:25p.m. EST Tuesday's game 
Saturday's game Detroit H, Kansa~ City I 
Kansas City at Detroit, 12 p.m. EST (if necessary) Yesterday's game Sunday's Game Detroit '5, Kansas City 3 ( II innings) Kansas City at Detroit, 7:25p.m. EST ( Detroit leads series, 2-0) (If necessary) 

We need outstanding individuals to go to work in our corporate headquarters in New York. We prefer majors in accounting. but will consider other majors with a minimum of three accounting courses. These positions are in the Financial Planning and Analysis Division of W R. Grace & Co. 
The Division's job is to assist the Chief Executive Officer and corporate management in analyzing the strategic and operating issues facing Grace's businesses. It evaluates the five-year business plans and the performance of all our operating divisions in chemicals. natural resources and consumer products. 
As a member of this division, you will review all major capital investment prop0sals. and under­take special projects initiated by corporate management. by the operating divisions or by the department itself. 
If you're successful. you will spend several years in the Financial Planning and Analysis Division. after which relocation outside of New York City is likely. 
Promotion and increased responsibilities will be principally financial. opening up possible moves into positions throughout our international operations. 
W. R. Grace is an unusual company, a $6.1 billion multinational with balanced business interests in chemicals. natural resources and consumer products. In 1983, Grace earned $159 million in these businesses. Growth like this relies upon people with an unusual mix of professional abilities and individual characteristics. If you like assuming responsibility. and can prove it to us; if you are an effective communicator. and can prove it to us. then you may have the Grace Dimension. 
If you have that dimension. the chances are you know it. and we would like you to tell us about it. or show us. 
Send your resume and we will arrange to visit with you on campus. Send it to Joseph Fitzgerald. Manager. College Recruitment. W. R. Grace & Co. lll4 Avenue of the Americas. New York. N.Y. 10036. 
One step ahead of a changing world. 
GRACE
chemrcols • notural resources • :onsurner producls 
011 Pqrrul npporhJlllly ernployt•r 



The Observer Thursday, October 4, 1984-page 14 


Soccer team retains 8th spot in rankings 
ByPHILWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 

The Notre Dame soccer team, which tied one game and lost one last week, retained the number­eight spot in the regional rankings this week. 
The Irish held on to their ranking despite a disappointing scoreless tie at Loyola last Wednesday. On Friday, Notre Dame downed DePaul, 7-1, on Cartier Field, and the team beat Saint Joseph's/Rensselaer, 6-1, Sunday on Alumni Field. 
The rankings are determined by a board of seven collegiate soccer coaches who comprise the Intercol­legiate Soccer Association of America Mideast Region. The voting is done every Sunday night during the soccer season. 
The top spot in this week's poll is 
Steranka's experience, skill guard Irish goal 
By DAN MICHELINI 
Sports Writer 

Because of the diversity of the Notre Dame community, there is something to interest just about everyone. For Irish soccer goalie Mark Steranka, there was not much that did not attract him to the Notre Dame campus. 
"I had been a big fan of Notre Dame since the eighth grade," says Steranka. "When it came time to make a college decision, the com­patability of Notre Dame's engineer­ing and soccer programs with my interests could not be beat." 
Since coming here three years ago, Steranka, a junior from Winchester, Massachusetts, has ex­celled both on the field and in the classroom. As all students know, academics are tough enough with­out having to devote so much time to a varsity sport. However, Steranka has found the time to do both well. 
A starter for the last two years, he feels his major strength is his experi­ence in the net. 
"I have played the same position for 14 years now," he says, "so I have come to feel very comfortable back there." 
Irish coach Dennis Grace says he feels that in addition to his experi­ence, Steranka's superior athletic abilities aid him tremendously. 
"Physically, he can do things other people just can't do," explains Grace. "Even when he becomes in­decisive on the field, his athletic ability usually compensates for the lost time." 
Steranka, or "Spanky," as his teammates call him, was uncertain 
Chicago wins NASL 
Associated Press The shot struck the legs of Toronto goalkeeper Paul Hammond but TORONTO-Pato Margetic scored bounced over his head and into the 
his second goal of the game with 
8:27 remaining to lift the Chicago Sting to a 3-2 victory over the Toronto Blizzard to win the North American Soccer League champion­ship two games to none last night. 
It was the second time Chicago won the NASL title, defeating the New York Cosmos 1-0 in a shootout to win the 1981 Soccer Bowl. 
Margetic scored from in the goal area off a pass from Manny Rojas. 



doe King Carasco Ticket Giveaway Thill Wee• 
held by Indiana, which has been in the number-one position for the entire season. The Irish lost to the Hoosiers, the defending two-time national champions, 5-1, on Septem­ber 23. The Hoosiers also are ranked number one in the national poll this season. 
Indiana received all seven first­place votes for a total of 70 points. The Hoosiers' record is 9-0-1, with the only blemish on their record a 2-2 tie with Saint Louis. 
Akron retained second place this week with 63 points. Notre Dame will play host to Akron, which now has a 6-1-2 record, on October 17. 
Evansville is third in the rankings with 55 points, Cleveland State is fourth with 48 and Bowling Green is fifth with 41. Western Michigan and Wisconsin-Milwaukee are tied in sixth place. 
Notre Dame had a record of8-1-2 
net. 
Mark Simanton scored the only goal ofthe first halfto give the Sting a 1-0 lead. 
Toronto fell behind 2-0 before forcing a 2-2 tie on second-halfgoals 
1:31 apart by John Pas kin and Roberto Bettega. 
The Blizzard, .which lost last year's championship to the Tulsa Rough­necks, fell this year in front of 16,84 2 fans at Varsity Stadium. 
of his role on the team corning into this year. Despite this, he has quickly assumed the role of a leader of the defense. 
"I was not sure what I would be 
doing on this year's team because I 
skipped spring soccer last year in fa­
vor of lacrosse," says Steranka. "It 
looks like I'm sort of the defensive 
leader now." 
Grace admits that Steranka has begun to develop as a leader, but be­cause the Irish goalie has the person­ality to lead the team, Grace wants him to develop it fully. 
"Mark definitely leads by his hustle and physical play," Grace says, "but he needs to become more vocal in the net and show a little ver­bal excitement." 
Steranka's biggest thrills thus far in his career as the Irish goalkeeper have been the last two games against Indiana. It is no coincidence that these have been two of his best per­formances, despite losing both games. 
"For some reason I don't get in­timidated by them," says Steranka. "I get so pumped up, I just go out there feeling we can beat them." 
"Mark seems to rise to the occa­sion," adds Grace. "The tougher it gets, the better he plays." 
As for this season, Steranka wants to reach the NCAA tournament, and he also would like to get a shutout ' against either St. Louis or Akron. 
This weekend offers the opportu­nity for the attainment ofboth these goals. If"Spanky" can get his shutout against eighth-ranked St. Louis, it just might set the Irish in the direc­tion ofthe NCAA's. 
when the voting occured, and the Irish collected 23 points for eighth place. 
Notre Dame opponents Michigan State and Wisconsin-Madison hold the ninth and tenth places, respectively. 
Since the rankings were deter­mined, the Irish have added another victory to their record. The win came on the road Tuesday night at Saint Francis, where Notre Dame won, 5-2. 
Five different Notre Dame players accounted for the goals. Sophomore Pat Szanto got his tenth goal of the season just eight minutes into the game with an assist from freshman Steve Lowney. 
Junior John Gibbs collected his 

KING'S CELLAR 


$699 
CALVERT 

$549 

JOHN JAMESON IRISH WHISKEY 
750 Ml. 
$899 
1.75 L. 

OLD MILWAUKEE %BARREL 
KEG 
2799 
KING'S CELLAR 
BACARDI RUM 
1.75 L. 
Budweiser 
Y2 bbl 
$3299 
Strohs 
Y2 bbl 

second goal with an assist from junior Dave Miles, who also gave an assist to freshman John Fossella. Miles later scored his own goal -his sixth ofthe year-with an assist from Szanto. 
The highpoint of the evening for the Irish came at the 76:37 mark, when senior tri-captain Rich Her­degen scored the 50th goal of his career at Notre Dame. The goal, which is Herdegen's ninth of the 
season, makes him only the second player in Notre Dame soccer history to reach the 50-goal mark. Gibbs gave Herdegen the assist on the goal. 
The Irish will take their 9-1-2 record to Saint Louis on Sunday to take on the nationally-ranked Bil­likens at 2 p.m. 
VODKA YUKON 
OR 
JACK 
750 Ml.
GIN 
1.75 l. BAILEY'S 
IRISH CREAM 
750 Ml. 
PAUL MASSON BRANDY 

CARLO ROSSI 
750 Ml. 

4 LITER 
PRICES GOOD THRU 10-6-84  
200 N. MAIN  254 DIXIEWAY NORTH 1910 LINCOLNWAV EAST  1621 SO BEND A"lf.  
ELKHART  ROSELAND  SO. BEND  ~0 BEND  
295-6310  272-2522  233 8430  233 4603  

Old Milwaukee 
Y2bbl $2799 

Michelob Light
Y2 bbl 

$3999 
ISAA soccer mideast poll 
·11te top ten college soccer teams in the Imercol­legiate Soccer As~ociatlon of America Mideast Region. with thJs season's recor«.b through last Sundayand total points. Points based on 10-9-8-7 etc. Notre Dame op­
ponents are ttoltctzed.  
I. Indiana  9-0-1  7U  
2. Akron  6-1-2  63  
3. Evansville  8-1-0  55  
4. Cleveland State  6-2-1  48  
5. Bowling Green  5-4-0  41  
6. Western Michigan  5-0-1  25  
(tie).  Wisconsin-Milwaukee  5-4-0  25  
8. Notre Dame  8-1-2  23  
9. Mlcblgan State  4-1-1  22  
10. Wtsconstn-Madtson  4-4-0  8  


GALLO 

Vm Rose 


~ -~ 

------~---------------­
'JI['~~C3L~------------------------------------------TI·o·u·r-sd_a_y_,_o_c_t_o_b_e_r_4_,_19•8•4----p•a•ge 
l 5 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 



The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Bob! Wake upl Bob! A shlpl I think I see a shlpl ... Where are your glasses?" 
42 Exposes 52 Go-getters 43 Fr. entree 53 Brand

The Daily Crossword 
44 Fishing vessel 54 Cautious 46 Tripoli native 55 Earth section ACROSS 37 Purposes 62 Diva's solo 12 Listener's 49 Oar 56 Silk hat " -the rod..." 38 Elevation: abbr. 63 Cabbage response 50 Flavors 59 Answer or hand 6 Horse breed 39 Rhyme scheme 64 Zealous 51 Wading bird 61 -Claire, Wis. 
13 Gull-like bird 10 Canter, e.g. 40 School subj. 65 Fastballer 19 Bothersome 
Wednesday's Solution 

14 Jeopardy 41 Keystone Nolan 22 "-It 15 Silent star Comedy 66 Short distance Romantic?" Negri missiles 67 Corrodes 25 Writer Kingsley 
B LAs 'IA1'BAIG1i AT 45 Noted stage 26 Macaroni for 

A E R I E N A S T R A L E 16 If not couple DOWN example 
S H E NAN DD~t-\! A R I A 17 Life force: Lat. 47 Pitchblende is 1 Sudden activity 28 Trapper's take 
I AN. P I E S L A N D I S 18 Musical one 2 Five: pre!. 29 Mongolian 48-La Douce 3 "Tempest" 
CRAY.VENO.

exterminator desert IIIIIIIE R E N 0 T I C E D 
20 Sault -Marie 49 Showed sprite 21 Cultivate surprise 4 Outeredge 
A0 U LT 
.A'V'fC
G I R L F I N E S NE AP
30 Hamburg's river 23 Minimize 5 Greatjoy 31 Black and Red24 Vague 53 Bavarian 6 Tell's target IW $.~ E R My R N A 

32 Nuisance 
WDUST MAO-

discomfort district 7 Irritate 33 Move slowly 
S E R E P 0 I N T E R 

26 Propel 56 Tree shoot 8 "Brown 34 Actress Adams 27 Calendar abbr. 57 Past October-.. 
S C0 T~,!· B E L T. I S E 
35 -luego 
MAKO CRAT~RLAKE

28 Parcels 58 Effortless 9 Misfortune 
39 Copycat 
E R I N E A S E E A R E D 

32 Utopian 60 Painting 10 Jap. entertainer 
41 Papal 
E P E E S E E R D I A R Y

36 Huzzah category 11 Mountains 
Campus 

•12 
· 4 p.m. -Arts & letters Career Day, Ballroom, LaFortune Student Center, For Sophomores, Juniors & Seniors, Sponsored by Career and Place­ment Services, Free. 

•3:30 
p.m.-Seminar, "Dynamics of Multibodies Systems," Prof. Ronald Huston, University of Cin­cinnati, Room 3'56 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by Aero/Mechanical Engineering Dept. 


•3:30 ·4:30p.m.-Computer Minicourse,JCL, Third Session · CCMB, Macintosh, Second Session· Room I04 CCMB , Free. 
•4 
p.m. -Radiation laboratory Seminar, "Resonance Raman Spectroscopy of Electronically Excited N-Heterocyclic Compounds," Dr. Robert Kessler, ND, Conference Theatre Radiation Labo· ratory. 

•4:15 
p.m.-Seminar, "Multilayers for X-Ray Op­tics," Dr. David Magel, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•
5:15p.m. -Mass, Feast ofSt. Francis, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Office of University Mini· stry, All Invited. 

•5:30 
p.m.-Mass & Dinner, Andrews Celebration, For Students Involved in Summer Service Projects, Log Chapel, Sponsored by James F. Andrews Schol­arship Fund. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Beggars Banquet, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Office of University Mini· stry, All Invited. 

•
7 p.m. -Thursday Night Film Series , "Body and Soul," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7 
· 9p.m.-Presentation/ Reception, Leo Bur­nett Presentation Reception , For All Interested BBA, AL & MBA Students, Notre Dame Room, Mor· ris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, College Republicans, 204 O'Shaughnessy, Members & Nonmembers Welcome. 

•7, 
9:30p.m & 12 a.m.-Film, "Octopussy," Engi· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board, S1.50. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Movie, "'Brother Sun, Sister Moon," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Office of University Ministry, All Invited. 

•7:30 
p.m.-lecture, "'How to Get the Right First Job," Dr. Bob Dunn, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall , Sponsored by Society of Women Engineers, Free. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Fellowship ofChristian Athletes, Howard Hall, All are welcome. 

•8:30
p.m. -Meeting & SUde Show, SOI.A, Room 124 Center for Social Concerns , Sponsored by SOLA. 




----~---~---. 
Thursday, October 4, 1984-page 16
SRorts 


Kiernan, Weissenhofer fill in for injury-plagued veterans 
ByJERRY MELIA last week's game, it is apparent that jury. Tony Furjanic, the leading tack­Sports Writer Irish coach Gerry Faust and his staff ler for the Irish to this point, was have accomplished this. seriously hurt during last week's 
Although the Irish barely escaped Both of these players were called contest, sustaining a knee injury that with a victory last weekend in Mis­upon to fill in in a rather difficult and will keep him out of action for five souri, the team, especially the unexpected situation. But Faust was weeks. Mike Kovaleski went down defense, paid some serious dues. In­pleased with how the young players in the Missouri game but later juries to starting players in key posi­did in the injury situation that oc­returned. tions didn't seem to hurt Notre curred. This situation would be consid­Dame last week in ·Columbia be­Over the last two weeks the Irish ered desperate for some teams, but cause ofthe strength ofthe bench. defense has become somewhat bat­not for Notre Dame. Kiernan was 
In all sports, injuries are bound to tered. On the defensive line, Greg occur no matter what precautions Dingens separated his shoulder are taken. The only way a coach can against Colorado, Mike Griffin was reduce the effects of injuries is to injured during practice last week, prepare the backups to the point and Eric Dorsey could not finish the where these athletes can come in Missouri game because of an ankle and help the team at any time. After problem. In the linebacking corps, evaluating the performances ofMike Mike Larkin is expected to be out for Kiernan and Ron W eissenhofer in at least another week with a leg in-
Irish golfers finish 
A limited amount of general admission tickets for the Oct. 13 Air Force game are now on sale at Gate 10 ofthe ACC from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The tickets cost n6 each and are available to students and 
the  general public  on  a  first­ 
come, first-served basis.  
The  tickets  were  made  

available after the Air Force Academy returned the portion of its allotment that it could not sell itself. 


called in to play the nose tackle posi­

third, gain respect 
tion when Griffin and Dorsey were forced to the sidelines. In the game, B)' MARK STADTMUELLER recognized as national powers in the 6-2, 248-pound junior made three tackles and helped the Irish 'lbe ObserverlEd Uomansky
Sports Writer golf. 
junior defensive tackle Mike Kiernan bas been getting a chance
Notre Dame's four-player, 54 hole defense hold the Tigers to 40 yards 

to contribute to tbe Notre Dame defense lately. Along wttb junior
under their season average, allowing 

As far as coach Noel O'Sullivan is score was 930, with Oral Roberts 
inside linebacker Ron Wetssenbofer, Kiernan will be called upon
concerned, the Notre Dame golf and Oklahoma City scoring 908 and 
see DEFENSE, page 12 this Saturday to help out an Irish defense that bas been severely 
program gained plenty of respect as 914, respectively. 
hampered by injuries.

the Irish placed third out of nine The Irish were led by. junior cap­
teams in the Midwestern City Con­tain John O'Donovan who shot 22 
Part of rebuilding program 

ference Championships this week. for 54 holes and junior Steve Fehru. who shot 229. Both of these players The competition was held Sun­received All-Conference recogni­day, Monday and Tuesday at the tion. O'Donovan and Fehrur were 
Maternowski leads ND volleyball
French Uck Golf Course, sight ofthe the first Notre Dame Golfers ever to 1924 PGA Championship. win any such conference recogni­By MIKE SULLIVAN over the past four years, and the I figured that I was responsible to my 
The respect was garnered be­tion. Sports Editor growing pains frequently have put a teammates and I knew that if one cause Notre Dame finished just be­However, the Irish performance strain on many of the players. The person could take it easy, other hind Oral Roberts and Oklahoma The Notre Dame women's volley­program was upgraded four years people could. 
see GOLF, page 12

City University, both of whom are ball program has grown a great deal ago when scholarships were first "I didn't want to let anyone down, awarded for the sport, but floun­including the administration. They dered for three years until the ath­let me in here and I felt I had a lot to letic department decided this past prove. I wanted them to feel their winter to throw a good deal of en­decision four years ago to give me a
Who is the real national champion? 
ergy into volleyball. scholarship was a good one, not one This starting and re-starting ofthe that they'd get only three years out program has been tough for most of of." 
"I've been here 10 years, and there have been no 
the upperclassmen. They have Those first three years were tough 
more than a handful offootball recruits who have 
played for two different coaches and for Maternowski, who was supposed 
gone through tbe application process and then been 
Jeff Blumb 

suffered through schedules that did to form the foundation of the new 
told no." 

not seem to improve with the pro­program. Volleyball had just
Anyone familiar with the relationship between Assistant Sports Editor 
gram. However, nobody has felt the become a varsity sport the yearacademics and athletics at Notre Dame would know 
changes as much as the current before and many of the old oppo­that this statement could not have come out of the 
seniors, who arrived in 1981 as the nents like Bethel College and HopeNotre Dame admissions office. Instead, it comes out of iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;:iii:iiiiii:iiiiii 

foundation of a building program College still were part of the the admissions office of Saturday's football opponent, and now find themselves in very schedule. The team's record im­
the University of Miami. Why the difference? It all comes down to the somewhat much the same position. proved from 17-25 to 25-9 during
Miami, you will recall, is the defending national different types of student-athletes the two are recruit· 
One of those seniors is Josie her first two years, but the lack of champion based upon its stunning upset of top-rated ing. 
Maternowski. A co-captain for two competition and numerous injuriesNebraska in last year's Orange Bowl. But on the way to According to Prof. Mike DeCicco, the athletic depart 
years and one of the first two schol­hurt the team last year against a that momumental victory in Miami football history, the ment's academic advisor, combination English-Matl 
arship players (fellow senior MaryJo more challenging, but not overly dif­Hurricanes seem to have left academics behind. Astudy SAT scores for incoming Notre Dame freshmen footb;c 
Hensler is the other), Maternowski ficult, schedule. 

by Tbe Miami Herald last summer showed that of the players average somewhere around 1,000. The Herald 
found herselfthis past spring getting Last season's 11-30 record was the seniors on the 1982 and '83 Hurricane squads, only 1 5 study showed Miami's average to be 730 based on a 
used to a new coach -Art Lambert -signal to the athletic department 
percent graduated. 1983 survey of 22 out of 27 freshmen. 
and a much more difficult schedule. that some change was needed. Lam­Under coach Howard Schnellenberger, Miami It's not that Miami is all that bad of a school academi­She also found out that Lambert­bert, a former coach at Stanford, was 
graduated 25 percent of its players from 1979 through cally, either. It has a university-wide average of 1,028. 
coached teams do not name per­hired, more scholarships were last year's championship season. The College Football Only one player ofthe 22 surveyed had a score above 
manent captains. She would have awarded, and the schedule was Association's most recent estimates say that the na­the university-wide average, punter Rich Tuten. Eleven had a reason to ease up for her final made much more difficult. Once 
tional graduation rate of football players stands some­of the 22 had scores below the NCAA's new minimum year, but instead is one of the most again, Maternowski was part of the where around 46.8 percent. This pair of figures of 700 for incoming freshmen (which will begin in 
improved players on the team. beginning ofa volleyball program.certainly doesn't speak too well for the relationship be­1986). Four of the 11 even had scores in the 500's, the 
"When I first saw her in the spring, "My years here have been quite a tween academics and athletics at Miami. lowest being 524. 
I didn't expect much from her," ad­learning experience," says Mater­The Coral Gables, Fla., school wasn't always this bad The conclusion one has to come to in looking at these 
mits Lambert, who came to Notre nowski. "The lesson I've learned is as far as academics are concerned, though. For the three scores is that Miami, in its recent recruiting, has gone 
Dame highly-touted. "She appeared patience. You always feel like some­seasons prior to 1979, the Herald study showed a 50 after players ofa lower academic standard than it had in to be a bit jaded about volleyball and thing's missing when you anticipate percent graduation rate of Miami football players. The past years. Bill Richardson, director of admissions ad­her experiences with it here. She that something will happen and it question to be asked, then, is whether a decline in ministration at Miami, gave indications of that when he may have been turned offby the way doesn't. Now, there's a lot of talk academics is a necessary evil to win a national champi­told Greg Cote of the Herald, "The most important the program was constructed. I about playing USC and teams like 
onship. single factor in consideration (of a football recruit) is think she really wanted to win, but that in a few years. When I was a We have to look no further than our own football the fact the person is a great athlete." 
the program wasn't doing it freshman, I was hoping that that team for that answer. Notre Dame, while not much ofa Tell me where academics rate in comparison to ath­"Yet, watching her do a lot this would come along while I was here. 
contender for the national crown in recent years, has letics at Miami. It is not overly wrong to recruit as spring, I saw that she had a great deal It's forced me, as a player, to think had a grip on the top spot more than once without Miami does, with athletic ability placed above academic of athletic ability. I knew she could that volleyball isn't everything."
academics suffering at all. ability, if they are graduating their players. But they 
play. My only question was whether What convinced Maternowski to 
In fact, Notre Dame has won the CFA's post-graduate are not, and therein lies Miami's big fault. 
she would make the commitment." 

academic award each of the last two year's for having In the record books, Miami will go down as last year's 
Maternowski answered that ques­mer was the arrival of Lamb~rt. the highest percentage of its football players graduate. national champion. While records such as this one may 
tion which a convincing, "Yes." immediately made it clear In the three years this award has been given out, Duke last forever, football careers do not. Many Miami players 
"During the spring, I thought for a nobody was assured of a won it the first year, Notre Dame the last two, and those will have little to fall back on once their careers are 
while that it would be so easy just to berth, but he also pointed out two schools will share in the award this year. over, while most of those at Notre Dame will at least take it easy and coast through my he was not going to playNotre Dame's graduation rate of its football players have a degree which means something. 
last year," says Maternowski. "But I see JOSIE, page 12runs in the 90's these days. We know what Miami's is. Who is the real national champion? 

realized that I'd hate myself if I did it. 





