
Top Ten -pages 5 and 9 

Sun. at Notre Dame 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
AssistantNews Editor 
Loret Miller Ruppe, director ofthe Peace Corps, will deliver the commencement address to a record 2 415
' 

graduating students Sunday afternoon at Notre Dame's 139th commencement exercises. Graduation ceremonies will begin at 2 in the arena ofthe Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Graduates include 1,858 candidates for the bac­helor's degree in the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Business Administration and Engineering; 73 students for Ph.D. degrees and 191 for master's degrees in the Graduate School; 162 students forJ.D. degrees in the Law School; and 131 for the MBA degree. 
Thirty-eight MBA degree recipients are members of the lhiversity's ftrst graduating class in the College of BusinessAdministration's executive MBA program. The class, which enrolled in August 1982, is composed of business and professional persons from the Michiana area who continued their careers while pursuing studies. 
In addition to Ruppe, seven others will receive honorary doctor oflaws degrees: Monsignorjohn Egan, director of human relations and ecumenism for the Archdiocese of Chicago; Dr. jorge Prieto, chairman of the department of family planning at Chicago's Cook County Hospital; Claire Randall, general secretary of the National Council of Churches of Christ; and Frank Sullivan, a Notre Dame alumnus and trustee who is president of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance COm­pany in Newark, N.j. 
Others include Willliam Welsh, a Notre Dame alumnus who is deputy librarian of Congress; Marina von Neumann Whitman, vice president and chief economist at General Motors; and Robert Wilmouth, a Notre Dame alumnus and trustee who is president and and chief executive officer of the National Futures As­
sociation,  a  self-regulatory group for the futures in­ 
dustry.  
Michel  Boudart,  Keck  professor  of  chemical  

engineering at Stanford University, will receive an honorary doctor of science degree, and Victor Weis­skopf, professor emeritus of physics at the Massachu­setts Institute of Technology, will receive a doctor of science degree. 
The University's highest honor, the Laetare ~dal, will be presented tojohn Noonanjr., professor oflaw at the University of California at ll:rkeley. 



The Observer/Pete Laches 

Whether itschatting with Father Heshurgh, enjoying the sun with some friends or participating in tbe candlelight vigil, Senior Week offers the graduates a chance to relax and enjoy theirfinal days on campus. 
Sat. at Saint Mary's 
By ANNE MONAS'IYRSKI 
SaintMary'sEditor 

Nurses Pinning Ceremony, Baccalaureate Mass, a per­formance of "Godspell" by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre group and a cocktail party are among the commencement activities which will take place today, at Saint Mary's. 
During Saint Mary's 137th commencement ex­ercises, 455 members of the class of 1984 will receive their bachelor's degrees. Ceremonies begin at I0:30 
a.m. May 19 in the Court ofLeMans Hall. In case ofrain, graduation will take place in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Nurses Pinning Ceremony begins this afternoon at 1 in the Church of Loretto. The procession for the Bac­calaureate Mass begins at 3:30 on the upper level of Angela. The Mass begins at 4. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre will present "Godspell" tonight at 8 in O'Laughlin Auditorium proceeded by a cocktail party from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. at the Century Center. The soft rock band from Chicago, "Transition," will perform at the reception. 
Abilgail McCarthy -writer, ecumenist, lecturer and women's rights advocate -will deliver the commence­ment address during commencement exercises on May 
19. She will receive an honorary doctor ofhumane let­ters degree. 
Other honorary degree recipients include Robert Be­ck, chairman ofthe board and chiefexecutive officer of the Prudential Insurance Company; Sister Olivia Marie Hutcheson, Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; and Evans Woollen, architect. Mary Kel­ly Mclaughlin will receive the President's Medal. 
Gretchen Meyer is the valedictorian for the class of 1984. Meyer majored in chemistry and humanistic studies and will receive two degrees: a bachelor of science degree and a bachelor ofarts degree. 
McCarthy, columnist for Commonweal magazine and author of two novels is the wife of former senator and one-time democratic presidential candidate Eugene McCarthy. Mrs. McCarthy is board president of Carroll Publications, sident of Herald Communica­tions, Ltd., director ofthe Drefus Corporation and coor­dinator of the National Conference on Women, the Economy and Public Policy. 
A graduate of the College of Saint Catherine, McCarthy received her master's degree from the Uni­versity of Minnesota and has done graduate work at the 
see SATURDAY, page 4 
The missing Knute Rockne statue from the lobby of the Rockne Memorial is resting comfortably on a F!orida beach, according to a ransom note that accompanied this photograph. 
Ransom message demands beer 
in return for stolen Rockne bust 
By MARGARET FOSMOE andJEFF HARRINGTON 
News Editors 

Knute Rockne is alive and well and basking in the Florida sun­shine, according to a ransom note delivered yesterday to the Observer 
office. The message was the first received since the bronze bust of the famous Notre Dame football coach disappeared from its pedes­tal in the Rockne Memorial two weeks ago. The note, which indicated the bust would not be returned "till the students have their beer," was addressed to "Father Ted" and signed "Rock." A photograph ac­companying the note showed the bust sunning on a beach, sur­rounded by a keg of beer, a portable stereo and a frisbee. Administrators say the note is the first bit ofinformation received concerning the whereabouts of the pilfered statue. "You can tum (the note) over to Security for material evidence," chuckled Director of Information Services 
Richard Conklin. 
A major investigation has not been launched into the case ofthe kidnapped coach, although Security is looking for · leads, according to Glenn Terry, director ofsecurity. "I think we'd like to get it back since it's part ofthe Univer­sity," he noted. 
Anne Schellinger, the security investigator assigned to the case, echoed the University's wish to recover the bust soon. "I'm hoping it will tum up when graduation turns up. It's got a lot ofsentimen­tal value to the University ... .It's not so much the monetary value." 
The statue, approximately two feet tall and two feet broad at the base, was mysteriously hoisted from its perch in the foyer of the building on the night of May 3. 
The only clue left at the scene of the crime was a note: "I'll be back when there's a real administra­tion." 
Conklin said, "The (first) note indicated that is was students who took it as a prank." 
Another clue to the heist may be the miniature statue of Father Ed­

ward Sorin located in Sorin Hall, but he's not talking either. 
The Sorin statue has been the vjctim of several abductions during the last 30 years. The Rockne statue-snatchers may have been inspired by recent articles in 
Notre Dame Magazine, The Ob­server and theSouth Bend Tribune concerning the colorful history of the Sorin statue, say ad­ministrators. 
Several undergraduates absconded with the Sorin statue in 1952. The students asked friends who were traveling overseas to send postcards signed "Father Sorin" to administrators from such places as Rome, London and Tokyo. 
The Sorin statue was returned at the end of that year, but remained the victim of frequent unaut­horized ,roadtrips for another decade. The statue was stolen again in the early 1960s and not returned until 1972, when Father 1ames Burtchaell learned of the statue's location and demanded its 
see ROCKNE, page 4 


The Observer Commencement Issue, 1984 -page 2 

The Notre Dame endowmentis the largest cfP any American Catholic institution of higher learning and the 19th largest among all the nation's colleges and universities. Notre Dame's endowment was listed at S279, 112,000 as ofJune 30, 1983, the date of the survey by the National Association of College and University Business Officers. It was up $75.3 million from June 30, 1982. The closest Catholic institution to Notre Dame was Loyola University, Chicago, with Sl07.9 million. Harvard University was first with $2.4 billion, with the University of Texas close behind at S2.3 billion. -The Observer 
Thirty-four Notre Dame alumniare presi­
dents of American colleges, universities and research institutes, according to a recent survey by the Alumni Office. Twenty-two men, including six priests and one brother, hold such positions, as do twelve women, including 10 sisters. About five percent of Notre Dame's alumni body, or 3,500 persons are involved in higher educa­tion. Seventy-five are deans and 151 are heads ofacademic depart­ments. The vast majority in the survey held faculty or administrative positions. -The Observer 
A $100,000 giftto establish a special University Library collection ofbooks on international marketing and finance has been received by Notre Dame. The collection was made possible by Peter Pilliod, president ofthe Pilliod Cabinet Company in Swanton, Ohio. PiJliod is a member ofNotre Dame's advisory council for University libraries. According to Father Theodore Hesburgh, university presi­dent, "The Pilliod family's generosity will enhance the quality ofour library and of business educaton at Notre Dame. The benefits derived from this collection by Notre Dame students will affect the future conduct of the international commerce in multiform and benevolent ways with which the name of the Pilliod family will al­ways be associated." The Pilliod Family Endowed Collection in In­ternational Marketing and Finance is the seventh endowed library collecton at Notre Dame. -The Observer 
Dr. Emil Hoftnan, professor ofchemistry and dean of the Freshman Year ofStudies at Notre Dame, has been named one of the nation's top 25 professors in a competition sponsored by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education. Hofman, who received his Ph.D. from Notre Dame in 1962, has taught at the University since 1953, and an estimated 26,000 students are alumni of his freshman general chemistry course. Since his appointment in 1971 as dean of the Freshman Year, Hofman has supervised a first­year curriculum and counseling program that has kept freshman at­trition to less than 2 percent. -The ObsenJer 
Engineering Dean Emeritus Dr. Joseph 
Hogan of Notre Dame has heen elected a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for his contributions to engineering education. Hogan was one of 134 members chosen as fellows from the total membership of2 50,000. He spoke on behalfof the new fellows Sunday during the IEEE Electro '84 meeting in Ros­ton. -The Observer 
Sister Marietta Starrie, rectoress of Lyons Hall at Notre Dame. has heen apppointt·d assistant director for service/karning at rhe Center for Social Concerns. according to Center Director Father Don McNeilL Starrie, who will hegin work at the Center in August, has het:n rector of Lyons Hall since 1977. She received a Master of Divinity degree from Notre Dame in 1980, and 
for the past three years has coordinated the Department of Theol­ogy's Theology and Life Colloquium and served on the teaching team of two theology department courses, "Theology III'Ytl Com­munity Service" and "The Church and Social Concerns." She will replace Sister judith Anne Beattie, who is planning to travel to the Holy Cross Sisters' mission in Bangladesh and become involved in the Order's formation work. -The Obsen,er 
Weather 
Partly cloudy and warm today. High in the upper 70s to near 80. Partly cloudy and mild tonight with a 30 percent chance for thundershowers. Low in the mid and upper SOs. Partly cloudy tomorrow with a chance for thundershowers. High in the upper 70s to around 80. 

The Observer 
Today's issue was produced by: 
The Observer ( l Sl~ ';<)') !-tOOO) •~ puhlishnl \!outlay through Frida\· and Design Editor ......... Thomas Robert Small on hom<· li•othall Satun.lav~. t·xn·pt Design Assistant............................. Suzanne during t·xam <lOU va.-ollion pc:riods. The La_vnut Staff .. Too numerous to mention 
Observer'' puhlisht•d lw lht· sludt·m, of Typesetters ....: .................... Kevin the Great tht· l nin·rsity of N<~trt· Dam<" and ~aim News Editor..................... Dan McCullough \1an··, Collt·gt•. Suhsaiptions mav ht· Cop}• Editor.......................... Sarah and Tess purch.Jsc:d for Sl') pn year ( 51<; p..-r Sports Copy f."ditor...........jeff. Larry. Dave 't·mc:sh:r) hv "riting The Observer, Sports Special Layout.......................... Silky P 0 Box Q. Notrt· Dam<". Indiana -i6';')6 Vieupoint La_vout.. ............ Keith and Paul 
The Observer is a memhc:r ofThe As­Ad Design ........................................ Suzanne sociated Press. All n:produt·tion rights Photographer. ..................................... Pete <~n: n:M"rn:d. 

Thank you, Mom and Dad 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
Four years ago, with teary eyes and heavy hearts, you put me on an airplane bound for Chicago. None of us realized it at the time, but you were sending me on a fantastic journey, one packed with learning, grovvth and happiness. Now that the journey is almost over, it'stime for me to thank you for the wonderful gift you have given me, explain to you why I will always love Notre Dame and tell you why I am better off now than I was then. 
As we walk around campus this weekend, the school's aesthetic qualities will strike you. The Dome shines brightest this time of year, amid blue skies, blooming flowers (even though they were just planted last week), green grass and freshly painted silver sidewalk posts. Believe me, the campus isn't always this beautiful. Midwest winters certainly take their toll. In fact, the campus looks better right now than it does all year. 
Yes, the beauty of our campus is quite apparent. But have 
David Dziedzic 
1983-84 Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Friday 

Dame and not benefit. 
Academically, we certainly got our money's worth. I've had the opportunity to study under some of the best teachers in America. I've been challenged time and time again ( lfi my grade point average reflects). I've dis­covered and developed my talents to the point where I am confident of my ability to succeed in the "real world." 
I've learned how to live on my own. Yes, mom, I can 
wash my own clothes, make my own bed and clean my own room. I can even cook my own food, ifI have ~o. 
Sure, I've become some­
many colleges what cynical over the past beautiful campuses. No four years. For example, I schools, however, have sometimes wonder for what Notre Dam~feople and the reason this University exists Notre Dame1'tlystique. -the good of the students 
As I have mentioned to or the glory of those who you before, I knew I was operate it. Such cynicism is "home" the first time I set good, however, because it foot on this campus. How? prompts me to constantly Good question. I suppose it question and investigate. had something to do with But perhaps the most im­the anticipation of being a portant thing I have learned part of the greatest student during my four years at body in the world. I had Notre Dame is the value of heard "Notre Dame stories" people. Most accomplish-

when I was still in high 
school. Iwas very anxious to 
become a part ofit all. 
And it didn't take long to become part ofit all. From Dean Hofman's welcoming speech to the last pep rally, from my first dorm party to my last Bookstore Basket­ball tournament, from my first class to my last visit to Senior Bar, I've known the greatness that is Notre Dame. I've had my share in many events and situations which are destined to he remembered in "Notre Dame stories." As many before me have discovered, the great­ness ofthis University lies in the people. 
But what about the people? Why are they so special? Are they special before they arrive, or does something happen to them under the Dome? 
The answer begs the question. People at Notre Dame are special because they are Notre Dame people. That may sound strange, but it is true. 
You have undoubedtly recognized I am a different pen:on now than I was four years ago. I hope you are pleased with my growth and development. I certainly am. I don't think anyone can spend four years at Notre ments are impossible with­
out the help ofothers. That's 
why I can't leave Notre Dame without thanking the loving, caring friends I've made here. They've helped me through difficult times, and let me help them through theirs. I can't wait for you to meet them this weekend. 
And that's also why I can't graduate without thanking you, mom and dad. Without your love and generosity, my four years here would only be a dream. Now they will forever be the fondest ofmy memories. 
I hope you enjoy my graduation and realize I am proud to be your son. Love, 


This is the last issue of Volume XVIII of The Observer. We wish the best for the graduates in their lives beyond Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
r-------------------------, 
I 
1  United Limo  1  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I All STOPS EASTERN STD. TIME  EFFECTIVE APRil 29. 1984  SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. I  

.,_ -iR •. 41ipti!Jd SalJ.e this Schedule 
L-------------------------­
1..-------------------------.J.·--------------------------­
The Observer Commencement Issue, 1984 -page 3 
AARTHUR 
~NDERSEN 
~ 

We are pleased to announce the following 1984 graduates of Saint Mary's College have recently become associated with our firm: 
CHICAGO OFFICE 
Janet M. Alberti, BBA 
Audit 
Cynthia c. Hennessey, BBA 
Audit 
Cynthia A. Shary, BBA 
Audit 
ST. LOUIS OFFICE 
Mary P. Golden, BBA 
Audit 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. 
33 W Monroe Street, Chicago Ill. 60603 (312) 580-0033 
You 

By THERESA GUARINO 
AssistantNews Editor 
The 1983-84 valedictorians at 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's may 
have achieved near or perfect 4.0s, 
but neither thinks that he or she has 
missed out on anything as a result. 
"I didn't give up anything on the weekends," said Nicholas Giam­pietro, Notre Dame's valedictorian. "During the week, there wasn't much to do anyway." 
Saint Mary's Gretchen Meyer feels the same way. "I didn't set out to be valedictorian, so I never felt like I was missing anything." 
Meyer, from St. Louis, Mo., will graduate from Saint Mary's with two degrees: a bachelor of science in chemistry, and a bachelor of arts in Humanistic Studies. 
Giampietro, from Glenview, Ill., is enrolled in the College of Business Administration, and will receive his 
B.B.A. with a concentration in accounting. His grade point average after seven semesters was 4.0. 
Both students were active in other areas besides academics 
Valedictorians say they never felt like they were missing anything 

Can be a Navy Pilot 


The Navy will train you! 
Must be a qualified college graduate or be within 18 months of graduation, under age 29 (30 for veterans) 
There are other Navy career opportunities available.in • 
Systems Inventory Management Acquisition Contracting Computer Systems Financial Management Nuclear Engineering Flight Surgeon 
Starting salary $17,500 plus medical benefits, travel, and rapid advancement 
during the past four years. Meyer played varsity basketball freshman and sophomore year, and has been an R.A. in Holy Cross for the past two years. She was also active in Campus Ministry and the Alcohol Education Council. 
Giampietro was president of the Notre Dame chapter of Beta Alpha Si, an accounting honors society, and a memb~r ofthe sophomore ad­visory council. He also participated in Dillon Hall government. 
Neither valedictorian has a secret for success to offer. "Being or­ganized was the only thing that helped me,'' said Giampietro. "I just 
Gretchen Meyer 

kept to my schedule and never blew anything offbefore a test." 
Meyer saw earning two degrees as a natural accomplishment. "I came to Saint Mary's as a chemistry major, but didn't want to take only science classes," she said. "I was taking other courses and decided I might as well take the Humanistic Studies major." 
Giampietro had only good things to say about the professors in the College of Business Administration. "My professors were really good at being able to convey everything they knew well," he said. "I couldn't even single out one that was better than the rest." 
As for student life at Notre Dame, Giampietro feels students lack of a cause to fight for is a real problem. "Students today have trouble trying to make a stand. No one is striving for anything in particular. There is no real goal." 
"In real life, people are divided in­to many little factions," he con-
Nicholas Giampietro 
tinued. "Notre Dame doesn't have as many little groups because everyone is so similar." 
After graduation this weekend, Giampietro will go on to Harvard Law School, and Meyer will attend medical school at Saint Louis Univer­sity. 

Spirituality Center confronting hard times 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTTI 
SentorStaffReporter 
Saint Mary's new Center for Spirituality is off to a slow start, but progress will soon pick up pace, says Religious Studies Department Chairman Keith Egan_ 
The initial plans for the center were passed weeks ago by Saint Mary's Board of Trustees, but as of yet Egan has not been able to cross paths with President Duggan to dis­cuss the next step. 
Egan, also a professor at Notre Dame, has been on the road giving lectures on spirituality, and Duggan has only recently returned from an overseas trip. 
Egan insists they will meet soon, 
however, and planning will take 
great strides over the summer. 
The new Center for Spirtuality is a response to"the searching ofpeople for the inner life," says Egan. 
Egan sees the new project as an aid for both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities, helping individuals form active lives built upon the foundation of this "inner life." 

1
.. 
The center also has another task in mind, says Egan: the development of the women's movement in the Church. 
"We want to prepare women for future roles of leadership in the Church," he says. 


South Bend-Mishawaka Valleyaires Barbershop Chorus 
FOR MORE INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL: 
Rehearsals every Monday at 8:00 PM
Navy Officer Programs at 
Cathedral of St. James 117 N. Lafayette South Bend 


For further information call: 277-7161 or 259-2166 
-~ 
The Observer Commencement Issue, 1984 -page 4 
Prize pupils honored at SMC convocation 
By ANNE MONAS'IYRSKI 
SaintMary's Editor 
Several Saint Mary's students and two faculty members were honored during the annual Honors Convoca­tion May 7 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Awards were presented to some seniors and students from all classes with consistent averages of3.8 or better. 
Dr. William Hawk, assistant professor of philosophy, received the Maria Pieta Award in recognition of his skill, dedication and excel­lence in teaching in lower division courses. Dr. Donald Horning, profes­sor of sociology, was given the Spes Unica Award for excellence in teaching and service to the College. 
Hawk, who joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1978, received his bac­helor's degree at Bluffton College in 1972 and earned a master's degree from Eastern Mennonite Seminary in 1974. He received another master's degree and his Ph.D. from Vander­bilt University in 1978. 
Horning, who has been a Saint Mary's faculty member since 1970, graduated from Kalamazoo in 1952. He received his master's degree from Indiana University in 1957 and completed his Ph.D. there in 1963. 
Saturday 
continuedfrom page 1 
University of Chicago. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, McCarthy has received six honorary doctorate degrees. 
Beck, who served as the ftrst Ex­ecutive in Residence at Saint Mary's in 1982, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree from the Col­lege. 
Hutches.on received her bac­helor's degree in nursing from Saint Mary-of-the-Wasatch Collf;;ge in Salt Lake City and her master's degree in hospital administration from Saint Louis University. 
Hutcheson, who has served two six-year terms as General Counselor, will receive an honorary doctorate ofhumanities. 
Woollen will receive an honorary 
doctorate of fine arts degree. A 
member ofthe American lnstitute of 
Architects (AlA) College of Fellows, 
Junior Kathleen Curran, was awarded the Saint Catherine's Medal. The medal is presented an­nually by the Kappa Gamma Pi chap­ter to a junior or sophomore who has shown service and leadership while maintaining a high academic average. 
A government and history major, Curran served as the Saint Mary's editor of the monthly magazine, Scholastic. She is a member of the Hall Council, Phi Alpha Theta and the Notre Dame Pre-Law Society and serves as a resident advisor in Holy Cross Hall. 
Curran also works as a volunteer at Logan Center and the Neighbor­hood Study Help Program. 
Other awards and their recipients included: Mother Rose Award in Biology, Amy Taylor; George and Juanda Bick Nature Award, Sheila Logan; Outstanding Achievement: Accounting, Janet Alberti; Economics, Elaine Hocter; Finance, Denise Ellington; Management, Elizabeth Jones; Marketing, Celecte Curry; International Business, Ann Huber; Department of fusiness Ad­ministration and Economics Achievement Award, Janet Alberti; Department of Business Administra­tion and Economics Faculty Award, Celeste Curry; Wall Street Journal Award, Elaine Hocter; American In­stitute ofChemists Award, Gretchen Anne Meyer. 
Also the Mother Rose Elizabeth Award in Chemistry went to Carrie 
M. Skawinski; F. Theresa Olisholm Achievement Award in the Perform­ilg Arts, Elizabeth Quinn; McDer­mott Award for Excellence in Elementary Education, Susan Anania; English Prize, Sarah Wil­liams; High Scholastic Award in Goverment, Katherine Whelahan; High Achievement Award in Government, Karen Hobert and Col­leen Shannon; Outstanding Senior History Major Award, Clare Boesen; Milko Jeglic Award for Achievement in Mathematics, Anne Mikos; Award for Musical Excellence, Jane Zwer­neman; Evelyn McGuiness Award for Excellence in Nursing, Elizabeth KJoska; Humanitarian Award, Kristy Higgs; Senior Scholarship Award in 
Sociology,  Theresa  Coye;  Senior  
Achievement  Award  in  Sociology,  
Kathy Domencetti.  


Commencement Weekend Activities 
Saint Mary's 
Fnday 

Nurses Pinning Ceremony. 1 p.m .. Church of Loretto Procession for the Baccalaureate Mass. 3:30p.m .. Upper level 
of Angela AthletiC Facility Baccalaureate Mass. 4 p.m., Angela Athletic Facility ··Godspell.·· 8 p.m., O"Laughlin Auditorium Cocktail Party. 10 p.m.-2 a.m.. Century Center 
Saturday 

Commencement Exercises. 10:30 a.m., Court of LeMans Hall (Angela Athletic Facility) 
Notre Dame 
Friday 

Lawn Concert, 6:30p.m., Administration Building Mall 
Saturday 

Procession for Baccalaureate Mass, 4:20p.m., ACC Baccalaureate Mass. 5 p.m., ACC. South Dome Cocktail Party and Buffet Supper, 7-8:30 p.m .. ACC 
Sunday 

Brunch, 9 a.m.-1 p.m.. South Dining Hall Commencement Exercises, 2 p.m., ACC. South Dome Law School Diploma Ceremony, 5 p.m .. Sacred Heart Church 

ANNOUNCES
r-------------------------------1 
I THE . I 
GOOD ANYTIME • DINNER OR LUNCHI 
APPETIZER: Nachos ENTREE: Shredded Beef,.Ground Beef or Bean Burrito or Chimichanga with 
Refried Beans and Mexican Rice.  
JUST  DESSERT: Churros. $4.95 WITH THIS CO<JPON  
Not to be used In conjunction with any other olfers. specials or holidays. THIS OFFER EXPIRES  s  
MAY 31, 1984  
139 W. Mc:IDDiey I Jlllabawaka  "'  
:  259-3100  -~  :  

~------~~-----------------------·
HAPPY HOUR 3-6PM, lltUdoae Saadav-Th111'8day 
Woollen designed the award­winning Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
Woollen received both his bac­helor's and master's degrees from Yale University. 
McLaughlin, a resident of Santa Barbara, Calif. has been involved in several professional and service or­ganizations since her graduation from Saint l\1ary's in 1942. She served as project director for the promotion of education for paren­thood in the California secondary schools, a program aimed at reduc­ing emotional disability child abuse and teen pregnancy by requiring both men and women high school students to take a class in effective parenting. 
Rockne 
continuedfrom page 1 
return. 
The Rockne bust was created by Nison Tregor in 1940, three years after the Memorial was completed. The weight of the statue is un­known, but Schellinger estimates it required at least two people to remove the sculpture from its bolted pedestal and carry it away. 
Deeming the theft "just the nor­mal student prank," Schellinger -.aid she had a feeling the statue would turn up. "Notre Dame is Knute Rockne and to have his head missing .. .ifs a shame," she said, shaking her head. 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. 
AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Pro"gram. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical 
sc1ences, find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in col­
l.ege. 

For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at 
CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-382-9782 
Commencement Issue, 1984 -page 5 
The Top Ten News Stories of 1983-84 

Irish Fightin' Mad About Policy 
The golden Dome was stormed by outraged students after the release of the Committee for the Responsible Use of Alcohol's report. More than 2,500 students charged the building after a student government-or­ganized protest rally. Other forms ofstudent protest in­cluded a sit-in and a spontaneous nocturnal gathering outside Corby Hall, the home of University President Father Theodore Hesburgh. The policy restricted the 
use ofalcohol by the students. 

NO organizrrs decide lo J18Y $SO for senlor Babamas trip
--_,.__,____ --.. ----·-·-·---... ­
IiiIll 
Dining Hall Workers Cleared 
The North Quad came alive with controversy when a probe conducted by a campus security investigator found no concrete evidence against five North Dining Hall workers who were fired for their involvement in an alleged extortion scheme. While the investigation could find no evidence of any wrongdoing by the workers, they were not rehired. A campus social con­
cerns group picketed the dining hall firings. 
Sir Obaoxlous-Jl8le 7 
to protest the 

The party is over 

Observer Asked ToJoin Budget 
The University administration handed the student newspaper an ultimatum when it asked for control of The Obsen1er's finances in return for an increase in stu­dent fees collected for the paper. The University made its request after conducting an audit which found a 
S7,000 operating deficit for the 1982-83 year. The general board of the paper refused to turn over the funds because, as David Dziedzic, editor-in-chief said, "Whoever controls the money controls the business." 
Senior Cl,... trip -paxe 3 

Probe clears fired dining hall workers 
Fl"t' emplo~«"> 1ermma1td la!!.t Nmember 0~:.•;.;~~~~men11n alkped extortion \Cheme 


·-.. • --w. ' •·. ~ '..:·.~.·.z__-:__"-:.-:==.:-_..:.--;__.._
·--·. 
=~-.:: -:.:: ~-·...··• . • ... . :;.· ·.=:.~.-:-=. ~.­
. -....__ ·. -­
~ --~ 
Mob •dmib il uwd odwr lkltcts' ~inK allolm~nb for its own nmpaiiJn n.pcdll("<i 
~~~~ 
• • -·-•~ e,,,~ _..__ .,.,__.,, •••-­




An Tostal Investigation 
The topic of spring was on everybody's mind in the middle of winter this year but not necessarily the topk of spring break An Tostal, the annual spring student celebration, ran into a snag after it was discovered that la..<>t year's managing committee could not account for almost $4,000. Some of the committee members at­tributed the overspending to the lack ofcontrol, waste­fulness and poor planning. One member questioned whether all of the money was spent directly for An Tos­
tal. 

Alumnus Ineligible For Award 
Harold Augustine. an alumnus who became a campus celebrity bv being quoted in The Obsen,er as saying, "A wet campus is a happy campus," was declared ineligible for the Senior Fellow Award by the four-member stu­dent award committee. The senior cla..<>s failed to cast enough votes for any ofthe other candidates and conse­quently did not elect a Fellow this year. Augustine was elected Senior Buddy, an award quickly organized after he was not allowed to receive the Fellow award. 
Jamt<~ Earl Jones -~ S 

Hall Foodsales Shut Down 
Many hungry students didn't know where their next pizza was coming from when the Office of Student Af­fairs shut down the residence hall foodsales after several were found to be unsanitary by the Campus En­viromental Health and Safety Department. The student­run foodsales were later allowc:d to reopen after the administration produced sanitation guidelines for the foodsales to maintain. 
Stulknt Senal~ -paxe 3 

Akohol ~ 
Stulknt Union lectum; ~-?::'?,::;:;;::-:;:: ::0::::::-:::-.== ~..:..-=..:::=:~ 
i]llt\~ll
Counselor says students need to speak up about drinking 


Saint Mary's Housing Reversal 
The women ofSaint Mary's proved that you really can fight city hall when the school's administration an­nounced that approximately I00 rooms would be blocked off for incoming freshmen. College President John Duggan held an open meeting with more than 300 angry students and in an eleventh-hour decision reversed the policy. 
AnTostal-page 3 


Yale Recipes Questioned 
A recipe file bought from Yale University for $20,000 was criticized by some dining hall cooks because they claimed some recipes didn't work and were a waste of the University's money. Food -Services Director Bill Hickey defended the purchase saying it was the best recipe system in the country. Other schools who purchased the same file claimed they also had problems with it. 


New Final Exam Policy Set 
Final exams became even more ofa headache for stu­dents when the Academic Council changed the final ex­ams policy prohibiting exemptions for graduating seniors. Exams must be weighted between one-fifth and one-half of the semester grade according to the new policy. Another amendment passed by the council states that two-hour final exams are mandatory unless an exception is approved by the chairman ofthe depart­ment and reviewed by the dean. 
NFL Slalldlnp -J181e 9 
Cap'n Crunch Mania 

The month of October brought more than the cold lake winds to campus this year. The Sophomore class officers ran on a platt(>rm which included a Cap'n Crunch party, which eventually led to their contacting Quaker Oats. the Cap'n's boss. who sent the breakfast cereal character to campus. The Cap'n presided over a cereal t.•ating contest and a H;hirt hunt among other c:vents. The presence of the national media added excitement to the week. 


. .. .......... --. -. -.. -. ~ ...... .. ... .. .. ... -.. .. .. .. ... .. ....... --.. --..... --.. ---.. .. -.... ... . . ­



Commencement Issue, 1984 -page 6 

Campus gay community seeks acceptance 

Has Our Response met nuclear war challenge? 
National surveys estimate that five to 1 0 percent of the U.S. population is homosexual. At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, approximate­ly two to three percent of all professors and students are gay, say members of the homosexual community here. 
Because of University and College policies, there is no recognized gay student organiza-
Michael Skelly 
Never to return 

tion on either campus say members of the group, who requested anonymity. 
Members speculate at least 200 students and professors at the two schools are practic­ing homosexuals. 
"Though we are not all friends," says one person. ··many ofus know each other casually and communicate through the grapevine." 
In the past, members say, they have con­ducted open meetings which often attracted 20 or more people. 
The greatest problem facing gay students, according to members, is homophobia, or fear of homosexuals. This fear often manifests it­self in harassment. "People often move away from us when we sit down at movies, yell epit­hets across the quad, or occassionally give us obscene phone calls," one reports. 
Another adds, "We used to eat together in the dining hall, but the harassment became unbearable." 
Another gay says many people who were ordinarily his friends "don't say hello when they see me with a gay friend." 
One ofthe most severe cases ofharassment happened several years ago·to two allegedly 
On May 3 oflast year, the·National Conkrence of Catholic Bishops published The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and OurResponse. 
Their pastoral letter gives strictly' conditioned acceptance of deter­rence as a step toward disarmament; it calls for the renunciation of the 
Michael Brennan And so it went 
United States' "first use" strategy, opposes the deployment of "first strike" weapons ( MX. Pershing II) and calls for tighter controls on horizontal proliferation. 
Recognizing man's unprece­dented capability for nuclear self· annihilation. the bishops stress that the entire human race is "in a mo­ment of supreme crisis," and that a 
··moral  about-face"  is  urgently  
needed:  
Decisions  about  nuclear  

u•eapons . .. int,olt'e fundamental moral choices . . . good ends ( defmding one's country, protect­ing freedom, etc.) cannot justifl• immoral means (the use of weapons wbich kill indis· c:riminately and threaten whole sodeties). 
Peacemaking is not an optional commitment. It is a requirement of ourfaitb. 
As a prominent Catholi<.· univer­sit)·. Notre Dame has a ~pecial resJXmsibility to provide Christian leadership in confronting the many moral quagmires presented by nuclear weapons and the threat of nuclear war. 
Education is essential. In this area. Notre Dame has established the "Nuclear Dilemma" course and has created peace studies as a second major. 
Beyond education, the bishops' lc:tter is a call toaction for Catholics. It is not enough to publicly denounce nuclear war with words. 
We are called to integrate our rejec­
tion ofnuclear conflict into our pcr­
sonallives and our community. 
We must take concrete actions 
that express our beliefs -acts of 
Christian witness. 
It is within this context that the 
issue of Notre Dame endowment 
holdings in nuclear defense contrac­
tors must be viewed. How and 
where Notre Dame invests its $250 
million dollars is a statement of Uni· 
versity priorities and values. 
Notre Dame recognizes this, as 
evidenced by the investment 
guidelines established in 1979 to 
limit holdings in U.S. firms doing 
business in the Union of South 
Africa. Five years ago trustees agreed 
to abide by the Sullivan Principles, 
which discourage investment in that 
racist-run nation. The trustees' deci· 
sion was a clear rejection of apart­
heid on moral grounds. 
The question of University investments in nuclear defense in­dustries also calls us to assume our resJXmsibilities as Catholics, to re­examine our priorities. The effect of adopting guidelines limiting such in­vestments would not stop the arms race or improve United States-Soviet relations. 
Such an adoption would, however, be a symbolic expression and statement of our collective moral commitment to creating a safer world for our grandchildren. 
We: would bt: recognizing the simple facts that the nuclear threat to mankind transcends the Soviet or "communist'" threat to the sovereignty of the United States, and that in this age of nuclear overkill, more missiles no longer buy more securitv. 
To not adopt a set ofguidelines is to give tacit support and approval to the continued escalation ofthe arms race, including the development of those weapon systems that our bis· hops have so strongly condemned as dangerous and destabilizing. 
Last fall, "Students for Responsible 

lesbian women at Notre Dame, according to 
one gay. 

After applying to switch dormitories as 
juniors, the two women were informed by 
their respective rectresses that senior year 
dormitory changes were not only unusual and 
detrimental to dormitory spirit but also re­
quired parental permission. 

The housing office later told the two women that parental permission was not re­quired and transfers were available to those who had not been discipline problems. Neit­her of the women were discipline problems, according to one gay. 
Later that semester, the women ex­perienced what they believed to be foot­dragging on the part of the rectresses. According to another gay, the two w.omen believed that the rectresses hoped such a delay would pressure the alleged lesbians to move off-campus. 
At the same time they were applying for the dormitory transfer, the women received severe harassment from other students, including damage to their possessions and even murder and rape threats. 
The women, say members of the gay com­munity, believed the harassment was due to indiscretion on the part of the rectresses who may have accused the women of being les­bians to other women in the dormitories. 
The two also believed that, after receiving death threats from other students, they could not tum to security or to the administration for help because they feared only more harass­ment from the University. 
Harassment is not always so severe, however, said one homosexual. "I just live with it. It doesn't really bother me," he says, adding that harrassment "keeps the gay com­munity apart (from heterosexual students). 
University Investments" was formed to examine the feasability of es­tablishing guidelines for University divestment ofindustries which con­tribute to the nuclear arms race. 
Early definitional problems (that is, what constitutes a nuclear weapon) were overcome with the help ofthe Investors' Responsibility Research Council The policy calls for divestment ofthose firms reciev­ing more than 1 0 percent of total profit from the sale of primary nuclear weapons systems (including warhead and delivery system com-
n~t CKf, ni£.Rf.'s NO Dtmc.RAc~. Tl4t PlOPLt AT T"t TOP MAkt ALL TN£. OlC.ISlONS, BASf.O ON RX..lA AHO £.tMN$10NtSM. 
Til PtoPLL AT Tl4t BOTTOM 6LT NO SAVIN OOW FliNCTIONARitS, YlS·H£N AN() PAPf.R-SllllfFLtRS. 
T"E M•ODLt LLVLL IS ALL TOADitS AND 
TlUN&S ARt hUN I AND OISSLNTtrtS ARt tiTUtA 
T\lROWN OUT ON T"UR BOTTS OR UILLD TO 5a1E. Rf.MOTE OUTPOST. 
People don't approve ofbeingassociated with 
us." 
Lesbians run into less harassment than gay 
men, members reported, because "they tend 
to be low-key," and are usually secretive at 
both schools. Lesbianism is also less threaten­
ing, especially to the male-dominated en­
vironment at Notre Dame, and less likely to 
arouse harassment, members agree. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gays, accord­ing to one member, consider the negative reactions they receive from other students "indicative of the xenophobia and homogeneity prevalent at Notre Dame. People here just don't like things that are dif­ferent." 
Members add that students from foreign countries and those who have studied abroad ••tend to be more accepting." 
Gays also attribute homophobia at the two schools to students' Catholic backgrounds and insecurities about their own sexuality. 
"Catholics start (to be sexually active) late, and many students here are unsure of them­selves," says one gay. He adds that a heterosexual without "'a sureness of one's own sexuality" usually has difficulties as­sociating with homosexuals. That sureness about personal sexuality is lacking in many students, members agree. 
Gays also consider traditional Gltholic doctrine to be at the root of either school's unwillingness to recognize a gay student group on campus. 
Dean of Students james Roemer confirms this, saying that recognition would be misun­derstood by the press and "blown out of proportion." 
Roemer adds, "Many people would under­stand it to be an approval ofhomosexuality." Gays here, however, are keeping an eye on 

ponents and some supportsystems). 
This proposal, approved by the Student Senate in February, covers only six corporations: Boeing, Lockeed, General Dynamics, Rock­well, E.G. & G. and Martin Marietta 
It appears that of those six, the University only has holdings in Boeing(which is developing the MX and cruise missiles). Divestment of Boeing would only be of symbolic significance, but such a move would be an important statement about Notre Dame's commitment to world peace. 
continuing efforts by homosexuals to estab­
': 

lish an official gay student/faculty group at jesuit-run Georgetown University. 
The group, which had sued Georgetown on 

the grounds they were being discriminated 
against, lost their suit last fall when a District 
of Columbia judge ruled in Georgetown's 
favor. The ruling, however, is being appealed. 
Members here also say "it was rumored that a group ofgay Notre Dame alumni in Chicago would help us out" in forming such an or­ganization on campus. 
According to one memberofthe Gay Rights Alumni ofNotre Dame {GRAND), their group consistently has been denied official recogni­tion by the University's alumni association "because we are not a geographical club." 
Pointing to gay student groups on other schools such as Harvard and Yale, members say, "they have gay dances and they pack the place." 
In the 1970s and early 1980s, gays at Notre Dame maintained a post office box and a hot line for their informal organization. Members later ran into what they term "typical or­ganizational problems," and the two services were discontinued. 
Members emphasize that "we don't want to sound bitter. We're not. We are an accepting group ofpeople." 
One adds, "Most people on campus don't give us a chance because they don't want to know anyone gay. Chances are you know somebody who is homosexual. But you don't know it, and it doesn't really matter." 
Discounting their sexual preference, mem­bers say, they are just like anyone else. 
"I'm one-29th gay," says one member. "There's a lot more to me than just my sexual preference. I have political and religious beliefs and a lot of other interests. What dif­ference does it make to other people if I'm gay?" 
Last week, the policy was presented to the Student Affairs Committee ofthe University's Board of Trustees, where it was recieved favorably. But at the full board meeting, strong opposition from members of the Investment Com· mittee effectively killed attempts to have the guidelines implemented. 
Unfortunately, it appears that Notre Dame, for the time being, is unwilling to put its money where its mouth and heart are. The issue has been addressed -yet the inconsis­tencies remain. 


"ie~P.-O_i_n_t____________________________~_______________c_o_m__m_e_n_c_em__en_t_I_~_u~~-'-19~8-4_-P_a_g_e_7 
Letting go most difficult Letter to a maiden aunt 
It worked. God knows how, but it worked 
A timid young man who saw his first Notre Dame commencement four years ago as a soon-to-be freshman, will graduate Sunday, carrying with him the best and the worst of Notre Dame. 
The four years were a comedy of errors, filled with what he thought wrong turns, in­decision and unrealized dreams. 
His freshman and sophomore years found him in Old College and Moreau Seminary ­first with a roommate, then alone. As a junior he searched a vast desert to find himself ­from the harsh reality of off-campus life, to living with the best 48-hour friends he's ever known, to campus life with two roommates he 
Keith Picher 
Death of profundity 

despised before learning to overlook his own 
pettiness, to life with his roommate from 
freshman year who also had left the seminary. 
He also chose to major in philosophy and 
computer applications early that year. After 
failing in his try to become a resident assistant, 
he reluctantly took a job with the campus 
newspaper -a job he really did not want at 
the time. On his first day of work, he came 
within inches oftelling his boss he dido't want 
the job. 
As luck would have it, he now finds himself 
•looking for work in journalism with an educa­tion which trained his mind admirably, but which tails to impress would-be employers.· 
As a senior, he was so wrapped up in himself and in school's rigors, he often ignored his roommate, his friends from years past, and worst of all, his family who had struggled for 22 years to teach him to live life to its fullest and to stand up for what he believed in. 
But despite all his shortcomings, he will leave Notre Dame next Monday as a young man who has learned how to love. Only now that he is about to leave friends, some of whom he has known four years, does he begin to appreciate the feelings his parents must have had four years ago when they kissed him goodbye. 
Notre Dame at times caused him to despair. 
At times he attacked administrators ofthe l.hi­
versity who claimed to fill in for Mom and Dad 
with an in locoperentis attitude. 
He disregarded their attitudes and policies 
in the same way he had set aside his parents' 
advice and their years ofsacrifice. 
As he was about to graduate, he got a letter ·from Father Ted, one which the president had mailed to every senior on campus to defend 
himself He spoke of "Sarge," not Sergeant Shriver and went out of his way to defend Loret Ruppe, a woman who deserves an honorary degree or the senior fellow award, but not to speak at commencement. 
A letter accompanying Hesburgh's send-off attacked the student newspaper for its hasty column denouncing Ruppe -and hasty it was,. only because the University would not let anyone know who was speaking until the newspaper scooped the story for the third year in a row. 
You see, the University does not respect 
protest and independence. The school wants 
to hang on to its children -even searching 
them as they enter the convocation center for 
commencement ceremonies with one last 
shot of mistrust. 
His parents were able to let go even though it hurt at times, waiting for his next letter, phone call or visit. Because ofthem, he left school a confident and mature man. His only advice is to appreciate parents and ap­preciate the place. 
Autbor'snote:Infouryears atNotre Dame, I have received more tban 150 letters from AuntMadeleine, my mother's maiden sister. Tbe letters, wbtcb came in 9 by 12 manila envelopes, were typed single-spaced and covered tbe back andfront ofonepage. Eacb letter invariably was accompanied by 10 or moreclippingsfrom the New Orleans Times­Picayune. Tbougb I occasionally telephoned Madeleine in response to ber letters, I never wrote ber-until now.· 
Dear Madeleine, 
As my closest relative other than my parents, you remain the adult model with whom (most empathize. Each ofus leads inde-
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
pendent lives you without a spouse, me 
without siblings. 
. 
Because ofour like lifestyles, I doubt ifever there were a time you did not understand me. 

As a child, I groped for my identity. And you, my wry godmother, were always able to put into my head dreams ofsuccess which as a young adult I now hope to fulfill. 
In early adolescence, I was what my parents termed "rebellious," but I was no rebel I was simply a ridiculously selfish teenager in love with myself You, ever the champion strategist, brought my parents and me iogeth­er by turning me from within myself. 
As an older teenager, I began to lose self­confidence. You, along with my parents, taught me to trust my abilities. Whether I was ' discussing persOnal experiences with you, or just mowing your lawn, you gave me the chance to recognize my worth as an in­

dividual who could accept challenges and ac­
complish most any task I began. 
Though my parents and I have lived next door to you since 1968, it was not until I came to Notre Dame that I finally realized how much of one mind we really were. Through your letters I was able to grasp more intensely our two loves: justice and New Ocleans. 
For more than 40 years you have served as a legal secretary and now embark on a· new course as a paralegal. In dedicating yourselfto service and justice, you have opened my eyes to see the plight ofthe weak and indigent. 
By your example and through your tireless encouragement, I hope to approach your living spirit of noblesse oblige through my own work as a newspaperman. 
Our love for the Crescent City binds us to a lifestyle I have yet to experience anywhere else in my travels. And though at times I criticize the city's social institutions, always remember that I hold its people more dearly than any other. 
While most of my Notre Dame friends someday plan to return to their homes to be close to family and friends, I hope to return to New Orleans not only because ofthose I hold dearly, but also because of the very persons I claim I detest. Truly, New Orleans makes for odd bedfellows, and you have taught nie to revel in such paradoxes. 
As I leave Notre Dame, I hope to leave with those who remain here some semblance of the hope in humanity and respect for in­dividuals you instilled within me. 
Love, 


Education calls us to share with others our talents 
Notre Dame this weekend is sending out things which have come to us? a lifestyle which is supportive of humanity, Bobby Kennedy always believed that al­
the movers and shakers oftontorrow's world. Rose Kennedy once said that her family had not parasitic of those less fortunate than we. though one person might not be able to We have many roads to travel; the ones we been blessed with an abundance oflife's good As humans we must work toward the kind of change the world, one person could make a choose are not as important as the way in fortunes. In order to truly demonstrate their peaceful and prosperous world in which we difference. 
which we choose to travel them. love of God and their commitment to the all desire to live. 
When you give of yourself you always get
human community, the Kennedy's gave back If you lead a life which seemingly does no 
more in return, maybe not in dollars and
RandyFahs more than they received. harm to others, but which does not actively 
cents, but in the knowledge that you have 
Now, we Notre Dame graduates, too, must promote the interests ofhumanity, you are ac­
made life a little more bearable for others. The 
return our talents to the world. tually taking things from people who need
Last Analysis personal satisfaction gained from such inter­
Many people have invested their time and them. There are few among us who would 
action is truly beyond any monetary gains. 
resources into bringing us to this point in our maliciously hurt another person, but as per­
We can take things for ourselves to enrich lives. To show our love and respect to them sons who are aware of the real needs of the Love and life are the two greatest gifts our own lives -we will have the power, in­and to the rest ofthe world, we must reinvest poor and oppressed, apathy is as deplorable as which we are endowed with by the Creator. fluence and money to do so -but will we part ofourselves into the human community. actively persecuting and exploiting. We have but one world in which to live. Let us demonstrate respect for others? Will we I am not referring simply to charity or You might ask, "What can I do, I am only share it so that one day everyone might enjoy 
prove we are truly thankful for all the good public works. I am speaking ofan attitude and one person?" all the good things we ourselves enjoy. 
Letters can keep together friends far apart 
Att,.er all the fun, disappointment, studies We have been touched in a great way by our our old friends slide gracefully out of our reunion. Who wants to talk about football and maturation, this year's seniors must leave · friends at Notre Dame, maybe even more than lives? with someone you haven't seen for a year or the place that has been home for four very im­we think, and it doesn't seem fair that we have ~ Examine our parents. In most cases, they no more? 
portant years of their lives. Unfonunately, to go our se~arate ways. longer communicate with old friends. They . What's there to do, then? Well, how about 
they must also leave the friends they have That's the real world, though. Ifone person might talk about them every once in a while, "droppping a line" every now and then? made during their stay under the Golden is offered a job in California and his friend gets but their friends have become just characters Writing letters, no matter the length, has Dome. accepted to law school in Boston, they have to from their youth. become a lost art. It would take just a few assume that they will not be seeing much of The movie, Tbe Big Chill, is a good example minutes to tell what's new in our life. More each other for awhile. of what has become standard post-graduate importantly, it would encourage everyone
Michael Sullivan 
Just because we graduate and go our life. In the movie, a group of close college else to return the favor. 
separate ways, though, is no excuse for our friends lose touch with each other until they Nobody said it would be easy. Few of usOne more chance losing touch with college friends. Unfor­are brought together by the death of one would claim that we're good about writing tunately, most of us will gradually lose touch member of the group. The years in-between letters, but unless we change, we probably 
It is not a pleasant thought. The people we with our friends until one day even our best had brought many changes to the group. The won't be hearing much from our friends in the have met at Notre Dame are special. They college buddy will be just a name on a movie ends as group members still wonder future. have been with us through good times and Christmas card list. why their friend took his own life. That would be a shame. Personally, my bad. They have been there to celebrate happy Right now it is easy to say that we'll keep in I would hate to think that it would take friend.'l who are graduating have played a big events like 21st binhdays and medical school touch with our friends. After all, we probably something like a death to reunite my friends role in my life. acceptances. And ~hey have been there to sup­won't have too many friends nearby when we and me. I would also hate to think that the I still have one more year to spend at Notre port us when we have had problems with our set out toward our careers. But what happens only contact I will have with them is at a foot· Dame, but I feel a large part of me is graduat­roommate or had difficulty finding a job. when we do make new friends? Do we just let ball game, the traditional Notre Dame ing on Sunday. 
The OL-----:__ --­
'I.JM:C-::=n:=c_._·_··-Editorial Board Department Managers 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Wcrscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager .......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either inshtution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager. . ...... Kevin Williams accurately and as obJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor.. .......... Michael Sullivan present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3,1966 
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 

The Observer Commencement Issue, 1984 -page 8 
"A stress fracture is an awful ex­

and I don't think I handled them as I never would have come here if it to play and coach amateur basket­perience for someone," says DiS­well as I could have. I'd get too emo­wasn't for basketball" ball in Ireland. It will give her the
Klauke tanislao. "For a real competitive kid tional and let things get out ofhand. Ironically, KJauke's basketbalJ chance to show the ability that she 
continuedfrom page 11 
more than halfthe season and, when she returned, found that the five freshmen had moved ahead ofher in the lineup. 
It was more of the same during her junior year. A stress fracture of her foot allowed four more top­notch recruits to move ahead, burying her far down the bench. Even in her final year, which proved to be the only healthy year of her career, she saw very little action. 
like Jenny, it's probably one of the worst things that could happen. There's no sign of injury, no cast, no definite convalescent period. She would play one game real hard and for the next four days she'd be dying. 
"In a lot of respects, it has been a real, real difficult four years for Jen­ny. She's a good, dedicated athlete, and I'm sure that things just didn't work out the way she wanted -the way a lot ofus wanted." 
"I never knew when the injuries would start acting up again," ex­plains Klauke. "They acted up a lot But, when I look back, it was really nothing compared to what hap­ppened to Mary Joan (Forbes). You have to ask yourself, why did that happen to her and not to me? At least I got to play some." 

It is precisely this thinking that has made Klauke's Notre Dame career a success. 
"These have been four really im­portant years in my life," she says. "I've made some really good friends, and I've learned that basketball is not the most important thing in life. I still love basketball, though. After alJ, 
career is not over. She will be never really had a chance to show at moving to Ireland after graduation Notre Dame. 
Thankstoyou ... itworks ... 
forALLOFUS 

Unitedway 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters er day. 
I 

1 9 7 5 PORSCHE 914, 1.8 50,000 DANIELL£ CELESTE PICHER: HELVIE ROCKS Paul Julie Farabaugh 
MILES; ONE OWNER; $4700.00 CALL THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A It's hard for me to say how glad I am that
.____N_O_TIC_ES--lj 
Here's to the rekindling of a good

TOM BODNAR. 234-1596 after 6 p.m. SQUEEGLEBOXATOOGA AND A Sundry -Brooklyn Heights, huh. Looks you were around this year (except when friendshtp-hoping for a better one! See
DARN GOOD FATSO CHANGO AND you'd been drinking), but know that it's
like a lot more happy kisses. 

you this summer (lots I hope). Good luck WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. 
1969 VOLKSWAGON BEETLE HAS PUNKY DUNKY TOO. KEITH Straub -Nice sheets. Now you don't true. 
on finals. If you want to know who sent

TRAILOR HITCH ON IT CALL BEFORE have to keep nipping the mattress. 
ootouoooo•ooooooooouootooooououooooooooooooouoooooo••••••ooo
RESUMES. 272-8827. 
this, see above ad!

9:00 PM 288-8940 NEEDS BODY Life's a piece of ship, when you look at it Szilvas -Eat, Alex, eat. Tom WORK BUT RUNS FINE. -always look on the bright side of life. Criminski -Mr. and Mrs. Scott A. The same goes for you. Who needsEXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 To Mel. Jeff. Kevin. Suzanne. and Tom on
Curs -Did you bury your heat pipe in the editors anyway? 

a Sunday ntghl after driving to MichiganALASKA SUMMER JOBS -Good 
aquifer? 
(Niles):

To the Congregation of Holy Cross: Grusdis -Mr. and Mrs. Carrie A. Suzanne
money$$. P•rks, Fisheries, wllclerneu The best way to avoid temptation is toThanks tor two years that will affect the Magner. Homme, Keller, Allison -Get Its been a hell of a year. I'm glad it'sresorta, logging •nd much yield to it. mp 
TICKETS rest of my life. Special thanks to Andre real ma;ors, how 'bout? over. and I hope next year is an improve­
more...Summer Employment Guide. 
1914 listings. $4.95. Northauest, 300 (who convinced me to come here). to Terpin, Fagan, BoBo -The best looking ment (whatever we may be doing). Flash (who taught me how to pop pop­ME's.
Union Ave., Bldg. 12, Campbell, CA 95008. HELP!! NEED GRADUATION TICKETS corn), to Claude (who convinced me thai I Juba -You should be selling books this Bnlly Paul. wasn't the only dumb Frenchman at Are you still out there? 
SO BROTHEA&2 SISTERS CAN COME summer. Feigned hostility was the perfect ploy. BEFORE GOING TO PRISON. CALL N.D.), to Schneibs (who listened to my
EDUCATION Three years and no one suspected a it mystifies thing. They actually believed you were in
283-1204 MIKE. WILL PAY. MONEY IS drivel and told me when to go to hell), to Ibiddeth thee all the best of adieus. -Kevin CLEAN. B.S. (a soon-to-be possessed). and to the
it has de~royed me Chicago all those weekends. Boy. did we rest of the vocation pests and Binmates. To the Thursday night Observer crew­
There is no philosophy. toolthem. GOTTA HAVE GRAD. TIX. Need not be Appreciatively, Jeff. Tess, Ed. Lisa, Dorothy, Steve, Vic, Ah, a final chance at profundity Love always, together. Call Tom/John 6146or 1761. Keith Picher Madman. Kevin. Dave, Paul C.-Thanx for Follow the road while it's still lineally Margaret 
QUESTION OF THE WEEK: HOW a great 2nd semester. You're the best in coherent. MUCH DID NOTRE DAME SPEND ON One ticket needed for Graduation. Will the business. Have a great summer! See NEW SOD THIS WEEK? pay$$. Call Jill at 6293. MARY HEALY: I HOPE YOU REALIZE you in the fall. Mad Cleric (a.k.a Small) To The Observer alumni who helped
THAT SOME OF US SLA"v'ED AWAY TO 

SUCK IT IN OR NAME IT! make part of the last four years a terrific 
NEED GRADUATION TIX DESPERATE­PUT OUT THIS LAST EDITION WHILE JIM SMITH GOOD LUCK WITH THE IN­................................................................ experience: 
LY! Relatives coming! WILL PAY $$$. YOU HAD YOUR FUN!!! SURANCE JOB, ONLY I KNOW THAT Sarah: In just a few more days, we begtn Michael Ortman: Thanks for getting me Call Greg (283-) 3317. WE ARE JUST KIDDING BEAUTIFUL YOU TOOK OUT A HUGE LIFE IN­our ...summer under the Dome.lt's going into this mess in the first place. My mind SURANCE POLICY ON KAREN. PLAN· to be great. I'm glad your here. I'm glad will never be the same.
LOST/FOUND 
NEED 3 GRAD TIX. CALL RICH AT 288-We ARE Family. NING TO DO AWAY WITH HER I'm here too. (With all due regrets to Ft. Skip Desjardin: WSND, The Observer, 7446 QUICKLY HUH? WATCH THE TIGHT Wayne.) Bookstore, Metro, Costello's class, The Lost: Notre Dame's honor and prestige as PANTS, SOMEBODY'S WATCHING Bottom Ten and, at course, Albert's. Kind a reputable institution of higher learntng. Dianne, YOU!! MAUREEN I DON'T WANT TO BE MR. BRYCE ALL of sums it all up. Ditto on Ortman·s mind Why? Just ask ftve fired dining hall I'm glad I met you. MY LIFE, I WANT TO BE OMAR comment. Frank LaGrotta: (Always workers -all fired without proof of Tom TOM YOU HAVE ALREADY HAD YOUR SHARIF!! SAYS MIKE SULLIVAN. following Desjardin, of course): Thanks 
wrongdoing. PERSONALS SHARE OF PERSONALS THIS YEAR. ................................................................. for teaching me how to go after a story 
THE BENEFITS OF HAVING ME!!! SO I TOMMY RAINEY. TOMMY TOMMY and slick by my opinion. Lefty Mullaney:CHAIN AND INTRAMURAL MEDAL Mark, Bob, Dave and Jeanie -working THOUGHT I'D JUST SAY THANKS' YOU TOMMY. YOU'VE BEEN A PLEASURE From assistant sports editor to editor-tn­LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL with ya'll has been a lot of fun so far. Have KNOW WHAT I MEAN.. LOVE THIS YEAR SOMEONE TO ABUSE AND chiet; sound familiar? Thanks for all theKevinCOURTS. WILL THE PERSON WHO a great summer MAUREEN SYMPATHIZE WITH. GOOD LUCK,
from one Michigander to another, what encouragement this past year. ChrisCALLED BEFORE EASTER BREAK suzanne GLAD I MET YOU SEE YOU. Needles: Thanks for not standing in my
can I say?? Thanks for being such a great DAVE BRUSCINO, WHAT CAN I SAY TO .DOT.DOT.DOT I COULDN'T RESIST way. Friends like you are the best part of (DAN ?) PLEASE CALL AGAIN! ANN 
MARIE 2845087 OR'PAUL 2720746. fnend · maybe we can try water-skting A MAN WHO IS A MANGOD.HE CAN HOW MANY KIDS DID YOU SAY? college. Thanks. 
some time too. See you on the quad!! 

David COOK, CLEAN, ETC... I ENJOYED MAUREEN
FOUND: burgundy umbrella. the collap­suzanne 
We've done tt all. Wtth a little help from MEETING YOU THIS YEAR. GOOD D., K. and S ..
sible kind, before Easter. To claim call 
BUGS: your friends (Orti, Skip, Cheryl, me too) I LUCK IN EUROPE. ILL GIVE YOU THE GREG MURGIA GOOD LUCK IN NAZI I wouldn't have made through
it this2914. 

So you say you're gr.c:luatlng and think you're fully prepared to face the SCOOP ON FIRST YEAR LAW LAND,BRING ALONG A COUPLE OF semester without your support and you'w never gotten a pttrsonalll don't world and come out on top (TWSS). Good SCHOOL. MAUREEN EXTRA RAZORS I HEAR YOUR friendship. Thanks for the dinner atLOST: SET OF KEYS ON KEY RING ­
know what everyone el.. thinks but I luck wherever you go -my love goes with FRAULINE FRIENDS WILL NEED Macri's. And thanks tor believing in me.
PROBABLY LOST DURING 
find II hard to believeII mean 1 guy like you. William Mertka To a friend I will always THEM. BY THE WAY DO YOU HAVE A 
THURSDAY PICNIC AT SAINT 
you with such a complex personality respect over the next few billions and bil­BROTHER I COULD BORROW SOME Dear Brian Stanley, 
MARY'S. TWO OF THE KEYS ARE 
.•.•nd anyway who's that guy lions of years. Talking with you and NOTES FROM? MAUREEN Believe it or not. you are the bestMARKED 1124. PLEASE CALL JEFF Shirley • what would we all do without a
JOHN???? You re•lly shouldn't playing roommate I ever had. And tJelieve it or not. 
AT7120SOON. 
change your name wtt.n you take off friend like you. Thanks tor all the chats! fun. Take care. "THE BOUTIQUE EXCHANGE" Con, you are not the only roommate I ever had. 
••••u•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••oouooooooooooooooooooooou 
your gla...a. . . you might confuu See you for lunches on Fridays this sum­Carl KDP Sagen stgnment shop with Fashion in mind. If Good luck in Portland and at Cascade.LOST(STOLEN) PUGH TEN SPEED. 
someone who Isn't as qulck·wmed as mer and some golf! you are leaving for the summer we will Will write and send rega~ds from Phoenix. 
RED.METEORLUXE. WITH ALL THE 
mel Anyway, tt.re It Is. Suzanne take in your stylish clothes and all ac­Remember not to take yourself tooEXTRAS. TAKEN FROM SIDE OF THE 
Marlbeth GREAT SPIRITS cesories and mail you your cheque. Don't seriously -look what happened to DickMATH BUILDING ON LAST THURSDAY HAVE ALWAYS ENCOUNTERED just leave them behind! Give us a call for McBrien. Anyway. many heartfelt thanks BETWEEN 1:30 & 2:30pm. ANY CLUES Mssrs. Clay, Lee, Musumeci, Donovan, VIOLENT OPPOSITION more inormation or to make an appoint­for your understanding and kindness
REPORT TO MEAKS 277-3306. HELP ME HELP ME HELP ME I'M
and Miles. Czop, Bottei, de Carvalho. 

FROM MEDIOCRE MINDS ment. Have a great summer! Store hours these past four years DROWNING I'M DROWNING I'MHarvey, and Newman . . A heartfelt • Albert Einstein 511 E.Jefferson Mon.-Fri. 10-5.30 Across Peace (but don't forget justice) DROWNING I'M CRAZY I'M NUTS I'Mthank you, a fond farewell. and a promise 
E.Bank Emporium Sat. 10-4 S.Bend 233· PaulCONFUSED I"M LONELY I'M IN LOVE
!o repay all cigarettes I ever borrowed . 5144 how does 2013 sound? 99 RED BALLOONS II .!.
Dave.

FOR RENT 
With much respect but little regard i.
They're coming to take me away, ha, ha. 
Joseph J. Dolan Some might characterized this as a To the Holy Cross Communtly: 
Thomas Robert -thanks for betng such a hee, hee, ho, ho, to the funny farm, where Many thanks for everything y'all hawatershed year. although I still don't
P.S. Same to D'Souza and Milosavlevich. great assistant and a good friend through· life is beautiful all the lime. done tor me. Sorry about all the abuse · 
believe Max was born in Russia. Working

TWO HOMES AVAILABLE FOR NEXT out the year. Here's to fun. sun and ra­THE OBSERVER, but I know all of YOtlwith you has been the best part of it all A
SCHOOL YEAR. WILL ACCOM· quetball this summer. 
All right, I admit it publicly. The cape is a are good sports. If in the future we cross
boss, yet a friend too. When I thtnk of this That's what I like about you/ANNEX Girls
MODATE FOUR AND SIX STUDENTS. Szan
symbol of revolutionary zeal. We want the just have come paths on less than friendly terms, please
place, I'll think of you. wanna fun/so on
CALL AFTER FIVE. 234-9364. 
overthrow of the administration and remember we're both working for lhG
everybody "put the wood" in the
Fondly.__ .. I.. .-.&:>...............................
repeal of the football ticket distribution same boss.
fireplace/we need a fourth tor EUCHRE/
ROOMMATE(S) NEEDED FOR SUM­Margaret The ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS
system. Yes. we. there are others of us Cheers. 
MER. 4 bdrm hse, utilities & phone incl P S. Incidently, I still think we make a pret-wish to thank the class of 1984 for all How bout a before Dynasty
out there, and the all have capes and next Paul McGinn 
pinkies & nachos/It's Happy Hour time­
Nice yard. garage. 288·8461/284-5128 ty good team. their support In the last three years.
year. ...the final offensive. Vive le Revolu­where's the budweiser van/It's been as

for tnfo: approx $125/mo. ................................................................
tion! Remtngton Steele easy as ABCI1231iving with all of YOU! 

Mother and Tom--thanks a zillion for 

Dear Btll Mertka, GIRLS WANNA HAVE FUN Especially in Stupidchtck. ·As the Dome Glows" is my these four years. love MICHAEL 
Thanks for these past four years. Please the summer.! have a 3brm. HOUSE 3blks. favortte -soap. Thanks for being a terrific
Farewell! Mom.Dad and all SMC and NO friends; remember that even though I may appearfrom campus on N.D. Ave. I need two at­roommie! Love. JB. HOW YOU LOOK TO OTHERS 
Thanks for a great 4~years! Love ya, to differ from you on many issues, I ear­tractive M or Fhousemates. call233-1319 MATTERS NOT TO ME
Mr. Jeff Mau·ra Keyes nestly respect and understand your posi· 
HOW YOU LOOK ATOTHERS 
!tons -sometimes I fUSI like to argue.

ENVIRONMENTAL CANVASSERS IS OF GREAT CONCERN 
Take care of yourself and keep in touch. FIGHT HAZARDOUS WASTES AND MBAs of '84: ...amazing. There·s never
ROOMMATE NEEDED: New York Ctty Very truly yours.
POLLUTION WITH THE MIDWEST'S

Female preferred. Want to live in Manhal· been an MBA class like you before Paul McGtnn LARGEST ENVIRONMENTAL WAT· Brennan: You'll do it. and believe it or not, (especially you "accelerateds!"); you·ve
tan. Brooklyn Heights. Soho. Greenwhtch GROUP. OPPOR­

WANTED 
Village or anywhere reasonably safe? TCHOOG GOOOD God IS your tather(and mine too). Peace. been fabulous! CONGRATS to all of you! 
Contact: Erin E. Ryan 56614 Meadowood TUNITY TO LEARN ABOUT tustice and understanding. .. Katie 'Kareer" (Placement Bureau) Dear Ted Hesburgh. 
ENVIRONMENTAl PROTECTION AND

I Elkhart. IN 46516. Tel: (219) 293-7475. Paul It doesn't have to be so lonely at the top­
TO DISCUSS POLLUTION PROBLEMS

Ride needed to BOSTON Can leave Rewnte why not share some of your duties wtth 
WITH HOMEOWNERS. EARN $600& Class of 84: ...1 salute you!. and I thank
Fnday 5/11. Will share usual. Call John at persons who really know what tt is ltke to 
MO. CALL CBE 874-5500 you for the year I've spent w1th you.
Skelly-Don't fret about Marcos. He's a SUMMER JOBS/BOSTON, CAPE COD fine Catholic gentleman (like me). Just Welcome to the real world'" Katie
1802. be real scholars. the faculty. Prove to thts 
untvers.ty you can live up to what you say 
· 

A UNIVERSITY WHICH RESPECTS ·Mauachusetta Fair Share, the largeat remember to call everyone "str" (except Kareer' (Placement Bureau). you believe or someone may just not
And she said we must get together, 

SCHOLARSHIP state-wide citizens group In the the ladles -since they wtll all be calltng name Memonal Ltbrary after you when
But I knew it'd never be arranged . .

country Is hiring Individuals to you). 
you dte. develop techniques In political educe­Witness ts the key. ROPER. You were one crazy roommate Sincerely.
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED TO 
-Harry Chapin

lion, grau roots politics, and moblllz· Paul in ·so. and I'll never forget it·-1 sttll bear the 
SHARE 1 BEDROOM APART IN Your conscience 
lng communities around economic P.S. Don't take all Brennan s talk of God psychologtcal scars. Thank you lor tiJe
CAMPUS VIEW CALL TRACY AT 419­
and ecological luues. Join our com­too seriously-JUSt remember what God challenge of your fnendshtp. Wm. Bu<.k­
229-4096 
munity outreach/fundraising staff and sa1d about Ntetzche ... ley.lll 
GOOD LUCK AND MUCH THANKS FOR 
There's a lot to be satd for blue and
work to help pass our progressive .fiLL YOU HAVE DONE FOR NOTREwhite striped shirts. Thanks.
legtslative program. Salary· (185-235) & DAME: STANLEY HAUERWAS. 

benefits . HAWKEYE. CSC lost a good one when ELISABETH FIORENZA AND Hrs.. (2-10) Shirley, you left. Thanks for your sUpport when my GREGORY SCHIRMER SO MUCH FOR
FOR SALE BRIAN: Stop, before tis too late' Just ktd· Tel.· (617)266·7505 1nev~r would have guessed that a stable world began to crumble Stanislaus THIS UNIVERSITY'S SENSE OF OPEN­
d1ng. A million thanks tor challengtng my Offices tn Boston. Cape Cod. Western reltgtous. political and phtlosophical fellow Pollock would be one of my the martyr. MINDEDNESS AND RESPECT FOR 
Massachusetts. Worcester & Fall River. beliefs. And by the way. thanks for betng a best college friends. All of my Notre ............... ....... ....... .. ... TRUE SCHOLARSHIP YOU CAN HIT BARGAIN: ENGAGEMENT AND WED­
........... ·-····· hell of a friend too . Dame friends have left or will even-!1.1ERTKA. Conquer the wQrld. my fellow YOURHEADSAGAINSTABRICKWALL DING RING FOR SALE Contact Garry DAVID: Is there still a fire burning tn your 
Keith tually leave this place. As long as you GOP. but don t sit on tl. BS FbR ONLY SO LONG. · · 
Rush. 239-7735 heart? ~:~ev~~~:~l a~::y~nha~eo~~: p!r~~~~,. H. W~ii. ~~-~~..~~d~ itl!! Us Thanks. especially for the lunches and 
FOR SALE: 2 COUCHES. BAR STOOL, 
the MAD CLERIC 1s here MOM AND DAD: Welcome to my home 1 hard to believe that Ill be com1ng home talks we had together. I'd never have RUG, BAR(REAL CHEAP!) EVERY­away from home. Thanks tor 21 years of reason to come back. Thank you .or soon. Let's gtve Max a vacation and send given you any advtce tf I dtdn't care and THING MUST GO! SOLD TO THE HIG­M.c:l Clerics marry mad men to mad support and encouragement. espectally everylhtng. Please treat Bob at least Freeway to the kennel, we ve got a lot of dtdn'tthink you might be the better for rt. I HEST BIDDER. OR FIRST COME FIRST women who tn turn have wolt-man the last four. You are better parents than a half as well as you treated me. lirrie to make up. I'm sorry bustness kept hope 1 still know you when you're done SERVED! CALL JEFF AT 8854 NOW! children. son could ever hope for Love, me away so long. I should have known cltmbtng. And by the way, it really is a nice 
........,, ........................ ,_1.,.... :.... ~: ... :..:_:............. .. ·• · ........... " ..............·....-...;."..! ..;J••~.~--t-..,.,.•,...,.•~...~ • f •. ~ Keiltl·.•, ., .• ­
i • •• 

• ..• , . _Qa.vid. that ~u.qre -~ll !O;t~rH~-.I.~Q~ ~r}'~-, .•.•_•.•.•.•~~IJ~ .••• , _•.••. , . , •• .-........\.1. ••• 

Commencement Issue, 1984 -page 9 
The Top Ten Sports Stories of 1983-84 
··-··-­

llurriamesBlOW'AwayIrish -------­
-=----=---=-~ 
~:::=--~ ;-.;~"3#]
:;.:--.:-.:-.:-::."":":

The low point ofthe Gerry Faust era came on a =----..
..::..-:..~~.:.::..;:::-----~-'::':"-':..~ 
:t~==::= ~;:~::;-:::

hot Miami night in late Septemberwhen the even­
=o:::..~~:. =::.::::.::
:?.I:-;-:-:= Et;=-::-=.:

mal national champion Miami Hurricanes embar­
====-==·:=:.= ===~:::::= §-1.::..~{~~ ~~-¥~

rassed the Irish, 20-0, on national television. 1he Hurricanes physically and verbally abused the :-~7~~~~~; ~~t~~~=s;~ 
:::=-.::;-::1 ~J::-=~-:: ~~~~ ==-~:~ ~~~~~ 

Notre Dame players, who were trying to rebound 
~~-~-~~ ~~~~ ~~~] ~§~~§~-=~

from a loss to Michigan State the week before. The Irish proceeded to win five in a row after the 
~~i).ii;~~~;t~;;~~


Miami debacle, but never beat a team with a win­ning record until the Liberty Bowl. 
~~i~~~ ~~~~~;;~ ~1!~~~ 
--:::. __ .. ___ .. _ ...~"':=:-.::.:::.:-=...-:.:-.= ::.--~------·--
Nllioaa! Cal hob: Mer! 
Irish u~ fnot'ed Marquette 
HarriersPullOffUpset 
When the teams lined up for the start ofthe Na­tional Catholic Cross-Country meet on Notre
iiiI
AaW..._y__... 
Tennis team faces stiff competition Dame's Burke Memorial Golf Course, Marquette was the odds-on favorite to repeat as champion. 

No IU~-Haskon 
Notre Dame was expected to put up a challenge, but did even better than that as it upset the War­riors. Although Marquette's top runners placed ahead of Notre Dame's, the Irish were able to place all seven runners ahead ofMarquette's fifth 

~~=-~~~~~~~ ' man; giving them the win. 
;i;i li_,_~L,= 
Notre Dame Plays in Liberty 
., 
=3~:;::~.~:~ ·-:~ 

The Notre Dame football team had just lost to 
c.:::,o=--~---·::::o-:::-=: :jf~:T;: ;_ _,=_,-{j. 
.~.; :.· -~-.:.~::....:.... ':.

Air Force, bringing its record to a mediocre 6-5, 
N;'"'Dame sweeps Sl. Thomas .·:.::::o::,:j:ff ;;·J.£:;-:;:

when Gene Corrigan announced that the Irish were going to play in the Uberty Bowl. Tite official announcement drew criticism from people all 
llilt'l~~j;~

around the country who felt that a 6-5 record did 
:.:.::.-::..:"-: ::;;..~.>"'"--:'·"-' Seniors bid fa,.,welllo hom• crowd 

not warrant a bowl bid. Nevertheless, the Irish played Boston College on a miserable December 
11~~~C~ ~~~s c,,,_­

29 night, winning 19-18, and shutting up most of the critics. 
14~ r~~-i ~*i ~is: ..... 

---------~----~---------­

IrishWomenBeatUClA 
The 1983-84 women's basketball season was r.tther disappointing, as the team finished with a 14-14 record. However, there wasone very bright spot, and that came on December 5when the Irish defeated perennial power UClA. Carrie Bates was the star as she carhe off the bench to score 18 points and pull down six rebounds before leaving 
with a knee injury. Mary Beth Schueth made up for her absence down the stretch, and the Irish picked up their biggest win ever, 70-61. 
S orts · 

Maryland becomes a NO!ft o...... mo....,nl 

Maryland Fallsto Irish 
With 20 seconds remaining, the score read: Maryland 45, Notre Dame 45. However, Irish cap­tain Tom Slubydrove to the basket for a layup that gave Notre Dame its biggest win in three years. Maryland came into the game ranked fifth nation­ally, but the Irish, in the midst ofa streak that saw them win 12 of 14, played excellent basketball down the stretch to give them their first notable victory of the '83-'84 season. Sluby, as usual, led the scoring with 19 points, while Ken Barlow added 16 in the winning effort. 

Sports 
Volleyball PrognulUpgraded 

W'hen it was reported that the athletic depart­ment was upgrading the volleyball program by hiring former Stanford coach Art Lambert and increasing the number of scholarships to the NC'..AA maximtun of 12, there was probably little reaction from those outside the department. However, the announcement was very important for the fate of Notre Dame's minor sports, and especially the women's sports. Ifany minor sport is going to make waves, volleyball is going to have to be it. Ifit fails, the other minor sports may also suffer. 

FencersUpsetNational<bamps 
What's Notre Dame's most successful sports program? Mike DeCicco's fencing program wins by a mile. Once again, the fencers made their an­nual run at the national championship. They fell just short again this year, finishing third in the NCAA Tournament, but made a big mark during the season by defeating eventual national cham­pion Wa}ne State in the Great lakes Champion­ship. The win could be an omen for the next few years, as nearly every fencerwill return next year. 
Sports ·--_.,.. ·-· -· 
Irish reach NIT Championship game 

Sluby leads team past SLU. 65-59 
IrishReachNJfOlampionship 

Digger Phelps' basketball team, rejuvenated by the return of Tim Kempton to the lineup, surprised many people by reaching the finals of the National Invitation Tournament. The Irish lost to a red-hot Michigan team, 83-63, in the finals, but defeated four teams on the way to New York. Tom Sluby led the charge, but he received help from nearly everyone on the squad as the Irishput 
Notre I>anK football team begins spring practice 
things together at the right time. 
~~~~-~~~'~2 

Sports 

Macri'sWmsBookstoreAgain 
Bookstore Basketball has become the third major sport at Notre Dame. For the -second straight year, 512 teams competed ( 22 more were on a waiting list). Also for the second straight year, 
~~!i!'iJilitl 

Macri's Deli emerged as the winner. Macri's, com­

Blue-Gold game build• confidence 

prised of Joe Sweeney, Larry Cuculic, Steve Toohill, Bubba Cunninghan1, and Barry Fay, used superior teamwork and a pressure defense to beat TequilaWhite Lightning, 21-12, in the finals. 
Sports 
ND lacrosse team wins MLA championship 
~~ fltl~1~fif:1, ;s:.~"

Lacrosse TeamWinsMIA 
In just its fourth year as a varsity sport, the Irish lacrosse team emerged as champion of the Mid­west Lacrosse Association. Rich O'Leary's squad 
II~-,~=-~-="-~~~
-,... NO!ft l>llJM wias

ended the season with a 8-1 league record (9-3 
Baseball team wins three of four Miclwtsl Calbolks 

overall), fmishing in a tie with Denison. Notre Dame was awarded the championship because it defeated Denison, 11-10, during the season. 1be Irish, led by Bob Trocchi's 36 goals, won their last six games to take the title. 
~-~
... --­
,c=-~~-~0; ~~~ ~~!-: ~~~-: 


.... -· _... --..... ----....-.......-_................ ,. -.. -' .......... ---....... _,. .·."' ....-.-.... _.. -·-. • ...._............._ ...... _.._ '--•. ' " .. ""' ' "' ............ ,,'"', .................. ' .... "'',-,.-.. """".., ... ~ " ........................ Ill. '-.........._ ....... ­
The Observer 
Commencement Issue, 1984-page 10 


Irish tennis team places Sluby third in NCAA tourney :::::;~:::;::.ll,hreebe· 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
Continued improvement has 
been the trademark of the Notre 
Dame women's tennis team in the 
course of its seven-year history, and 
the 1983-84 season was certainly no 
exception to that trend. 
For the second year in a row, the 
women's team placed third in the 
NCAA Division II national cham­
pionship tournament. But even 
though they failed to achieve their 
goal of a national championship, the 
Irish continued to build confidence as they posted their best record ever, fmishing 23-4 overall (.852). They posted a 13-4 mark in the spring campaign. 
"This is the best team I've ever coached," said Irish coach Sharon Petro. "The players displayed a supe­rior attitude, one of hard work and determination. We made a marked improvement over last season, a we had a lot offun doing it. 
"As far as the tournament goes, I have nothing but the highest praise for my players. A lot of things were against us, but through it all, we played well. It just wasn't enough." 
One factor that worked against Notre Dame in the tournament was the weather. Heavy rain caused several matches to be delayed or moved indoors. When it wasn't raining, the weather was extremely hot and humid, something that the


-----· 
Need Help With Your Student Loan? 
If you've attended college on a Guaranteed Student Loan or a National Direct Student Loan made after Oc­tober 1, 1975, consider spending a couple of years in the Army. 
If you train for certain specialties, the government will release you from 1/3 of your indebtedness (or $1,500, whichever is greater) for each year of active duty. 
Obviously, a three year enlistment cancels 100% of your debt. But if you sign up for the Army's exclusive two­year enlistment option, we'll still cancel213 of your debt. 
Plus, you may be eligible for generous educational in­centives. 
To find out how to serve your country and get out of 

debt, call the number below. SGT Jones 234-4187 collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

BE IN THE FOREFRONT OF TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY ASA SCIENTIFIC­ENGINEERING OFFICER 
Our scientific-engineering officers are plan­ning and designing tomorrow's weapon systems today. Many are seeing their ideas and concepts materialize. They have the finest, state·of·the·art equipment to test their theories. The working environment is con­ducive to research. And Air Force experience is second to none. You can be part of this dynamic team if you have a scientific or en­gineering degree. Your first step will be Officer Training School. Help us shape our future as we help you start yours. Be a scientific­engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact your Air Force recruiter at 
Sgt. Marty Lazar 219-236-8207 collect 


--• -. -• • -. .t. .g.eo! wo., oUife. . ••••••• -• • • • 
Irish are obviously not accustomed 
to. 
The quality ofcompetition also in­
creased the pressure on Notre 
Dame. Because they were seeded 
third in the tournament, they had a 
difficult road to the championship, 
facing top-seeded Tennessee­
Chattanooga in the second round. 
The fact that the tournament finals 
were held in Chattanooga didn't 
make things any easier. 
The Irish defeated Denver 8-1 in 
the first round ofthe tournament on 
Monday, May 7, but then fell to even­
tual national champion Tennessee­
undoubtedly a contributing factor in 
Notre Dame's defeat, because the 
two matches were played back-to­
back. The Irish opened play with 
Denver at 9 am. and didn't finish the 
Tennessee-Chattanooga match until 
lOp.m. 
The pressure of final exams was another problem for Petro's squad. This was most evident in Tuesday's third round, where Notre Dame defeated California-Davis 5-4 to capture third place. After taking a 5­1 lead, the Irish opted to forfeit the last three games in order to catch the last plane out of Tennessee and be back at school for Wednesday's exams. 
Next year figures to be another strong season for the Irish, as most of this year's players will be returning. 
. 

cause his main asset is his strength." 
Sluby will likely play at the big guard in the pros, but the transition from college to the pros will t be a dif­ficult one. The consensus among Blakt>., Menendez and Suhr is that the adjustment will likely take Sluby one to two years to make. The three also seem to agree that the Irish star needs to work on his ball handling and defense to be successful in the pros. 
There are other jntangibles that 
seem to make Sluby attractive to the 
pro people. 

"We think he's a guy who wants to take the money shots," says Suhr. "He's been in plenty ofhigh pressure situations at Notre Dame, has a very good knowledge of the game, and is really a competitor. All in all, he's a winner." 
After Sunday's graduation ceremonies, the next stop for Sluby is a pre-draft camp to be held May 30, June 1-3 in Chicago. According to Blake, only the top 50 or so col­lege players have been invited to this camp and it will be an excellent chance for Sluby to show his stuff to 
...with a specially prepared memorial envelope. \ 
Notre Dame postmark-March 31, 1981 50th anniversary of the crash 
the plethora of NBA brass who will be present. 
As far as what's in store for Sluby next year in the NBA, Gillen offers this assessment. 
"The key for him is getting with a team that needs a second guard," he says. "With the right team, I think he could do real well. He deserves it, too, because he's worked hard and is really a good kid." 
Sluby's hard work is not over, though. After four tough years at Notre Dame, he now faces the chal­lenge ofsurviving in the NBA-per­haps the biggest challenge ofall. 

Order from E. A. Bella ____:..=~...-..:....:_:~~:~:::
P.0. Box 1953 south Bend, IN 46634 $1 each postpaid 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
&[9 

We are pleased to announce the following 1984 graduates of the University of Notre Dame have recently become associated with our firm: 
ATLANTA OFFICE 
William J. Dawahare, BBA 
Audit 
John t Gunning, BBA 
Audit 
BALTIMORE OFFICE 
John J. Ruhlmann, BBA 
Audit 
BOSTON OFFICE Daniel E. Fitzsimmons, BBA 
Audit 
CHICAGO OFFICE 
Brian t Burt, BBA 
Consulting 
Mark E. Buschman, BBA 
Audit 
Christine L. Callahan, BBA 
Audit 
David E. Campbell, BBA 
Audit 
Stephen P. Colbourn, BBA 
Consulting 
Patricia M. Cooney, MBA 
Consulting 
Kathleen M. Coughlin, BBA 
Audit 
James M. Dee, BBA 
Audit 
Rian M. Gorey, MBA 
Consulting 
Daniel G. Hanigan, BBA 
Consulting 
Timothy H. Hart, BBA 
Audit 
James J_ Herrmann, BBA 
Audit 
Peter B. Holland, BBA 
Audit 
Michaell. Howard, JD 
Tax 
John M. Kuhns, BS 
Consulting 
Robert F. lutz, BBA 
Audit 
lucy A_ Mills, BBA 
Audit 
Judith D. Murtagh, JD 
Tax 
Daniel K_ Nelson, BBA 
Audit 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. 
33 WEST MONROE STREET, CHICAGO, IL 60603 (312) SSQ-0033 
Richard E. Paxton, BBA 
Audit 
Rusell M. Rempala, MBA 
Consulting 
Joseph S. Roveda, BS 
Consulting 
Mary Kay Stangle, BBA 
Audit 
Joseph H. Stephan, BBA 
Audit 
William G. Stotzer, BBA 
Audit 
CHICAGO -WORLD 
HEADQUARTERS 
Margaret E. Ford, BA 
Technical Services 
CLEVELAND OFFICE 
James H. Bares, BBA 
Audit 
Ernest L. Vallorz, Jr., JD 
Tax 
DALLAS OFFICE 
John A_ Butler, BBA 
Audit 
Anne M. Drollinger, BBA 
Audit 
DENVER OFFICE 
J. Michael Cornett, BB~ 
Tax 
DETROIT OFFICE 
Joseph J. McCarthy, BBA 
Tax 
Sharon J. Terpin, BS 
Consulting 
HARTFORD OFFICE 
Theodore J. Haussler, BA 
Consulting 
Frederick J. McCarthy, BA 
Consulting 
James D. Stapleton, BBA 
Audit 
HONOLULU OFFICE 
Celeste V. Oda, BBA 
Audit 
INDIANAPOLIS OFFICE 
Kevin P. Killilea, BBA 
Audit 
KANSAS CITY OFFICE 
Jean A. Yankee, MBA 
Tax 
LOS ANGELES OFFICE 
Paul K. Vadnais, BBA 
Consulting 
MILWAUKEE OFFICE 
Peter J. Kerwin, BBA 
Audit 
NEW JERSEY OFFICE 
Timothy J. Willis, BBA 
Audit 
NEW YORK OFFICE 
William J. Keneally, BBA 
Audit 
PHILADELPHIA OFFICE 
Mary Jane Costello, BBA 
Audit 
PHOENIX OFFICE 
Glen G. Gwarda, BBA 
Audit 
PITTSBURGH OFFICE 
Keith P. Creehan, BS 
Consulting 
Sally J. Esposto, BBA 
Tax 
Mary E-lang, BS 
Consulting 
ROCHESTER OFFICE 
Mary E-Stevens, BBA 
Audit 
ST. LOUIS OFFICE 
Mary C. McCown, BBA 
Audit 
Christopher J_ Stephen, BS 
Consulting 
TAMPA OFFICE 
laura M. Cuffe, MBA 
Consulting 
WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE 
Kevin G_ McCarthy, BBA 
Audit 


'JI['4(Jt~~~--------------------------------------------·C•o•m--m•e•n•c•e•m--e•n•t•ls•s•u•e•,•1•9•8•4--~.P.a.g•e•l.. 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

1VN/6HT, ~U BE 

AtJ/7 6AF\NISHcf? 
filJWIN6 YOU AU.. HOW 


WITH YUMMY 
TO PR.E.fflRE £Vf-RYON6'6 

~N&IJ/f.J ~ YUIM1Y
.>-IJON'T
FAVORIT€ S<IMMtR 11/SH : 

Nl6l.£Tb! W#I/Tl~" A~.
''ROA5T ~NWI~ RUMP.~ 
0 



Guindon Richard Guindon 

"I'm not your waitress. Your waitress is an over· weight bimbo with large pores." 


The Far Side Gary Larson 
5·18 ~ ~Chrorude Fealurea. 1064 

"Quit complaining and eat it! .. Number one, chicken soup is good for the flu -and number two, it's nobody we know." 
ACROSS 1 Bargain event 5 Evergreen tree 10 Student's 
translation 14 Conceits 15 By oneself 16 Silkworm 17 Word in 
QED 18 Kind of 
sweater 20 Supervised 22 Establishes 
a residence 23 Emporiums 25 Tibetan 
antelope 
26 The remain· ing persons 28 Raymond 
the author 33 Halt 34 Mild 
expletive 35 Rail bird 36 Do wrong 
The Daily Crossw-ord 
37 Foils DOWN 40 Poorer than 1 Appear mediocre 2 Taj Mahal 41 Awkward city 
boats 3 Usurers 43 Rivers: Sp. 4 Manors 44 lt. food 5 Prepares46 Baby bird 
and serves 48 Military food area 49 USA agcy. 6 Escape 7 A beetle 50 Show 8 Picnic plainly pests 52 Graduate's 9 Assign to designation an obscure words position 56 Lasts 10 Groups 59 False lead of five 
61 Nimble 11 Russ. city 62 Arrow ~ poison 
12 Agreeable
63 Of ships 
13 Chatters
64 Very long 
on and on 
times 
19 Kind of
65 Musical 
jacket
group 
21 Pierces 66 Mode with horns 67 Printer's 24 Dickens' term merchant 
26 Indian or Arctic 27-Haute 29 Repulsive 
old women 30 Shellfish trap 
31 A Muse 32 Flying aid 34 Kill 38 Certain 
hats 39 Disburse 42 Hid away 45 Blames 47 -majesty 48 Unmarried 
51 Mercenary 52 Baby bed 53 Horneof 
song 54 Arabian 
gulf 55 Coli. group 57 Sea eagle 58 Method: 
abbr. 60 Climbing vine 

TV Tonight 
7p.m.  16  The Master  
22  Dukes of Hazzard  
28  Benson  
7:30p.m.  28  Webster  
8p.m.  16  Movie of the Week  
22  Dallas  
28  Masquerade  
9p.m.  22  Falcon Crest  
28  Matt Houston  
lOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
10:30 p.m. 16  Tonight Show  
22  CBS Late Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
11 p.m.  28  Eye on Hollywood  
11:30 p.m. 16  Friday Night Videos  

Far Side 




The. Ce.n:te.Jt tiaJt Socia£ Conc.Vtn-6 :thank-6 the. gJtadU!Lting -6 e.nioM who have. he1pe.d thJtough :theJA -6 pe.cia£ in.tVtv.,t and de.dic.~on :to make. :the. Ce.n:te.Jt po-6~ibte.. Wl..:thou;t tjOWt_ paJt:ticipCLt.Lon in LU pJtogJc.a.rn6 and c.ommuni:ty ~ e.Jtvic.v.,, the. Ce.n:te.Jt c.oui.d no:t e.w:t. 
'')' 

God blv.,-6 e.ac.h Oo tjOU M you go noJtth. The. S:ta66 
',·~H====:::;:::;::;::=:;:==;:::===;:=::;::::==============::::;::::=~ 
TRUCK LEASING, INC. 710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-5871 
c 

0 
.HERTZ 
N _p_ENSKE R G ONEWA 
A JBUCKS 
T 

u Special Discounts for N.D. and SMC Students Must book 7-10 days in advance L $100 DEPOSIT REQUIRED 
A TIONS CLASS OF '84 


·'jlt_. 
').· 
Two seniors bring up-and-down careers to close 
Tom Sluby: 1984 Athlete ofYear 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Editor 
He probably will not be remembered much, ifat all, for his ftrst three years at Notre Dame. But Tom Sluby and his senior season will certainly stick out in the minds of many for years to come. 
The senior captain took charge of a strug­gling young team and not only turned its season around, but led it to a 21-1 2 record and a second place ftnish in the National Invitation Tournament. In the process, the winner ofthe fourth Edward 'Moose' Krause Award, selected annually by the sports staffofTbe Ob­seroer to recognize the Notre Dame Male Ath­lete of the Year, averaged 18.7 points per game, the best by an Irish player since Adrian Dantley's 28.6 in '75-'76. 
After struggling through a semester of academic ineligibility and assorted other set­backs, Sluby started to come on near the end ofhis junioryear. Then, following a successful trip to Yugoslavia between his junior and senior years, Sluby received the honor of being named captain. 
'Now Sluby, one year ago a long shot to ever play in the National Basketball Association, has a fairly good chance of achieving that honor also. Those who know in the NBA, in fact, are predictingSluby to go anywhere from the second round to the middle ofthe third in next month's draft. 
"He's deftnitely among the top 40 or 50 players in the country," says top NBA scout Marty Blake of Sluby. "He has a very good chanct> to play in the NBA." 
Jenny Klauke: Start ofa Program 

Fischette named 1984 Female Athlete of the Year 
By LARRY BURKE presented to the athlete from either He easily outdistanced a number of percentagt: in doubles, most coachable player," added Petro. and MIKE SULLIVAN Saint Mary's or Notre Dame who is other very worthy performers like combined victories (singles and "She's really improved her game Sports Writers most valuable to his or her team. Allen Pinkett, joe Howard, Mike doubles), and best combined win­since her freshman year, going-from This year, the choice of the men's Metzler (hockey and baseball), and" ning percentage. She also holds a baseline game to a full-court 
Each year, the Observer sports winner was relatively easy. Tom Bob Trocchi (lacrosse). single season marks for most game." staff names a male and female win­Sluby led the basketball team to the The women's choice was much doubles victories and most "I've gained a lot of experience ner of the Edward W. "Moose" NIT fmals with both his play and on­more difficult. It has been a tough combined victories. this year and throughout my Krause Award The award is court leadership (see related story). year for women's sports at Notre Early last fall, Fischette broke the career," said Fischette. "My years 
"I would say that he'll go from anywhere in the second round to perhaps somewhere in the middle of the third round," estimates AI Menendez, director of player personnel for the New Jersey Nets. "He'll deftnitely get a shot to show what he can do." 
"While I don't think that he's a first round selection," comments Brendan Suhr, an assis­tant coach with the Atlanta Hawks, "everyone knows who he is. He's had good exposure at Notre Dame and has as good a chance as anyone of making it once he gets to camp." 
Much of Sluby's exposure came in Notre Dame's mid-season upset of then fifth-ranked Maryland when he drove the right side with 18 seconds left to register a decisive three­point-play, and in the trek of the Irish to New York's Madison Square Garden in the NIT, where the Washington, D.C., native averaged 
20.4 points in five games. 

Post-season accolades included honorable mentions on the all-America teams ofTbe As­sociated Press, Basketball Weekly, and The Sporting News. In addition, Sluby received three awards at the team's annual awards ban­quet -the Notre Dame Monogram Club MVP Award, the Outch Player of the Year Award, and the Captain's Award. 
In achieving those distinctions last season, Sluby scored 616 poims to rank him I I th on the all-time single-season list. Beyond that, his 252 field goals are the 1Oth best ever in one season for a Notre Dame player. He scored a career-high 30 points against both Marquette and Dayton and led the Irish in scoring in 26 of 33games. 
"He exceeded our expectations," says Irish assistant coach Pete Gillen of the turnaround between Sluby's junior and senior years. "The · adjustment for him wasn't so much a physical one as a mental one. 
"It was all in believing that he could do it. · And as his confidence built, it kind of steam­rolled." 
Although Sluby is certainly a good shooter (he shot slightly over 50 percent last season), it seems that he is liked more by the pro people for something else. 
"Besides shooting the basketball real well, he's really a strung kid," assesses Blake. "And he's quicker than most people think." 
"There's three things you need to play in our league," says Menendez, "and those are: you must have strength, you must be physical and you must be able to take the pounding of 
see SLUBY, page 10 
ByMIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Uke nearly all the athletes who entered 
Notre Dame with the Class of 1984, Jenny 
Klauke has finished her four-year stint and will 
graduate on Sunday. 
Unlike the other athletes, though, Jenny 
Klauke has earned a place in Notre Dame ath­
letic history that will never be taken away. She 
did not earn the spot because of some fantas­
tic athletic achievement, though. Her career 
at Notre Dame was marred by injuries that 
kept her from making a major ~k on the 
record books. 
Jenny Klauke will go down in history as the 
first woman to receive an athletic grant-in-aid 
to attend Notre Dame. When she signed a 
letter-of-intent to join Mary DiStanislao's new 
women's basketball program, Klauke not only 
joined the ground floor ofa building program 
-in fact she was the ground floor -but she 
also represented the beginning of Notre 
Dame's attempt to build a strong women's 
sports program. 
The jury is still out on whether the athletic 
department's attempt has brought the results 
that were expected, but, after four years, it is 
obvious that jenny Klauke's career was not 
quite as productive as she had hoped. 
"These last four years have been kind of 
frustrating years for me," says the Glenview, 
Ill., native. "With injuries and everything, I 
never really felt I showed what I could do. 
"I knew that they would probably be bring­
ing in a lot of recruits after me. I also knew 
most people expected me to get pushed into 
the background. But 1wanted to play a lot for 
four years and go out with a bang." 
Things did not work out as planned for 
Klauke, but her Notre Dame career was still 
no flop. In essence, she was the sprinter who 
ran the ftrst leg of a relay, only to pass the 
baton to taster teammates. 
What a difference a few years makes. When K.lauke appeared on the scene as a freshman, the Notre Dame women's basketball program was beginning its ftrst year in Division I after jumping from Division III. DiStanislao had signed two recruits to begin the program's 
climb up the Division I ladder, but nobody knew what to expect from the year. 
The outlook was even cloudier when one recruit, Mary Joan Forbes, injured her knee before the season started, an injury that ef­fectively ended her Notre Dame career before it started. The injury left Klauke alone to carry 

the weight of being the sole scholarship 
player on the team. 
"I didn't know what to expect fromjenny in that first year," says DiStanislao. "In fact, didn't know what to expect from the team going from Division III to Division I. Obvious­ly we had oureyes on the future, but we didn't know how many people from that team would be part ofthe future. 
"As far as Jenny was concerned, she had in­juries through her ftrst year, as well as the rest ofher career. As the health ofher feet and legs was inconsistent, so was her play." 
Despite the injuries, though, Klauke showed flashes ofbrilliance from time to time. She averaged more than 10 points a game while playing little more than half the game, and scored 27 points in one half against Ball State. She did this despite trying to learn the new position ofguard and frequently trying to do more than she was capable. 
"C~ach used to yell at me about about trying to do too much," smiles K.lauke. "I was a guard then, and while I was trying to learn how to bring the ball up and play guard, I was going back to my old habits of forward. I did learn to control myself, though." 
By the end ofher first season, K.lauke looked like she would be playing a major role in Notre Dame's future -f she could avoid in­juries. Despite the fact that DiStanislao had brought in five blue-chip recruits, K.lauke's ability to play guard or forward would serve her well. 
A stress fracture ofher leg in the preseason ruined her plans again, however. She missed 
see KLAUKE, page 8 


Seniors &Parents! 
Keep up with life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

next year by subscribing to The Observer now. 
Follow the progress of the alcohol policy and what 
students are doing to circumvent it. The Observer 
will give you the latest word on the progress of Gerry 
Faust's Fightin' Irish. All this and more. 
Clip the coupon and mail today. 


Dame and Saint Mary's, but one team career singles victory record, which here have been well worthwhile, as has risen to the top in 1983-84. The she added to by posting~ an im­I've enjoyed a lot ofgreat times with Notre Dame women's tennis team, pressive I4-5 singles record this the team. which is quickly establishing itselfas spring. "During my four years here, the a NCAA Division II chantpionship "Pam has been a very consistent team has improved tremendously, contender, recently put the wraps performer for us this year," said Irish to a point where we're right up there on another impressive season, with the top ten (Division II) teams taking third place in the NCAA Divi­in the country."
'We didn't even name 
sion II tournament to ftnish with a 23-4 record. an MVP last year. But A major factor in the team's 
this year, the team real­
success this year has been the leadership and consistent play of ly wanted to recognize senior Pam Fischette. Because ofher 
the contributions that
outstanding performance in 1983­84, Fischette has been named the Pam has made.,recipient of the Krause Female Ath­lete ofthe Year Award Sharon Petro 
Fischette, who was named the team's MVP earlier this month, coach Sharon Petro. "Tennis is a ftnished out an impressive career in very individualized sport, so it's last week's tournament. The Uver­tough to single out one person who pool, N.Y., native has etched her was really the most valuable. In fact, name into the Irish record books we didn't even name an MVP last more times than any player in Notre year. But this year, the team really Dame women's tennis history. wanted to recognize the contribu­
She holds career marks for most tions that Pam has made. victories in doubles, best winning "Pam has always been a very 



i 
I 
Publtshed Monday ltwougf> Ft,.qy 

.....ing the ~adl!rnoc --TM oo.._ 
tS a vrtM source-of tntormahon on peo­ple and eftfttS on the Notte Oame-Satnt w..,.,·s communoty 
Jom thl! gmwong num«Jet ol rl!-5 who ........, lo.>nd fM Db-an ..,_ dt~ ltnk 10 the IWO C~ Complete lhe acc:.,._y,ng loo-m and ~~ rl tOO.y 1o •ec:rr.e fM 00H<W< on , ..... home lot S20 ~ setni!Sief 01 SJO lot 
.......,.,... 
i 
Make checkS payable IO. TheObsener andmailto: PO. Bo~ Q Notre Dame. IN 46556 
D E~ is S30 for one academic year. 
D Enclosed is S20 for one semester. 
N~------------------------­
Address.________ Coty _______ Stale ___ Zip 
Renewal =N.D. Graduate Class of __ 
B I 


