Chicago trip-page 7 


VOL XIX, NO. 61 lhe indcpcndenl ~ludcnl Ill"\\ "J1apc:r "lT\ ing noln dallll' ;md "ainl man·.., TI.JESDA Y, NOVEMBER 20, 1984 
Bookstore resolution 
Natural gas plant explosions ravage Mexico City subUrb 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY· A string of earth­shaking explosions yesterday at a natural gas plant on the outskirts of Mexico City turned a working-class district into an inferno of blazing homes, killing at least 261 people, the coroner's office reported. 
Red Cross and police officials said at least 500 people were seriously injured by the explosions and flames that devastated the area around the fuel storage tanks. 
Dr. Luis Sanchez Guerra, the Mexico state coroner, told reporters 
at the blast site at least 261 people were killed. Other authorities said they ex­pected the death toll to rise as 
sear~h  teams  dug  through  the  
smoking  rubble  of  houses  -a  
mixture  of  brick,  adobe,  and  
wooden buildings.  

Many of the charred bodies were placed in plastic bags and taken to a nearby police station, where Officer Jose Islas said he had counted 154 as rescue crews continued to arrive with more corpses. 
Col. Jose Domingo Garrido, the 
SMC parietal policy under review by board 
By MARY FRAN GISCH 
News Staff 
Potential parietal changes were discussed at last night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance. 
Surveys, completed before Octo­ber break, show the majority of students dissatisfied with the cur-rent parietal system. Student Body President Lee Ann Franks said the board, "is considering a proposal which would increase both the weekday and weekend time." 

Before any changes can be made in the present system, the proposal must be approved by a number of committees including Director of Resident Life and Housing Pat Ris­smeyer and Dean of Students Sister Karol Jackowski. Next, the senior of·­fleers of the College, Student Affairs Council, the Parents' Council and the Board of Regents must approve the proposal. 
"Going through all the necessary ~hannels is a slow process and will take some time," said Franks. 
Also discussed was the Oxfam Fast which raised more than S2,000 for Oxfam America. An excess of 1 ,000 students participated in the fast, held last Thursday. 
see BOARD. page 3 
police opentions director, said at least 80 homes were destroyed. One tremendous blast shook the crowded suburb of llalnepantla at 
5:42 a.m. ( 6:42 a.m. EST), followed by perhaps a dozen more explos­ions, residents said. Balls offire shot into the air and rained fiery debris on homes and businesses. Plumes of dark smoke rose a mile into the sky as the fire raged out of control for more than seven hours. 
Federal Police deputy spokesman Hector Garcia Vasquez said 100,000 people were evacuated from the 
area, many of them in school and city buses. Police Chief Ramon Mota Sanchez said 66acres were "virtually razed." 
He said four storage tanks holding more than 3 million gallons of li­quefied gas each exploded, and aut­horities were afraid the fire would trigger more explosions in other nearby storage tanks. 
By midafternoon, as the fire was brought under control, officials decided not to blow up a 1.3 million­gallon tank under controlled condi­tions in order to keep the fire from spreading. . 
"It is perfectly controlled," Mota Sanchez, the police chief an­nounced, "and now there is no dan­ger ofadditional explosions." 
Dozens ofambulances carried the injured to area hospitals, where reponers said the injured were choking hallways. "The place is full and more still are coming. They're all over the place," said Dr. Alfredo Jaime, a surgeon at the Medical Cen­ter General Hospital. 
see FIRE, page 4 
ND director of personnel resigns 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
G. Thomas Bull has resigned as Notre Dame director of person­nel. 
"I've had my contribution," he said yesterday. "I've worked here for 8 years and I've tried to do a lot of things. But it's time to step aside." 
Bull said he is looking at several projects but "nothing firm enough to make a final an­nouncement on." 
There is no effective date for his resignation, he said. "I'll be available as long as they need me -unless some contingencies become final." He added he will probably be on the job until the new personnel director is hired. 
While Bull did not specify what opportunities he was con­sidering, Thomas Mason, Notre Dame's vice president for busi­ness affairs, said Bull would prob­ably stay in personnel. 

G. Thomas Bull 
Michael Garvey, assistant public relations director, said he heard about Bull's resignation a couple of days ago but Mason said he was notified only yester­day. 
Reports that Bull was leaving his position Friday could not be confirmed. "I have heard nothing about that," said Mason. "He just made the decision." 
He added there are presently no candidates for the job. "We're just starting the search," he said. 
Mason said he doesn't know who would fill in for Bull if he were to leave for another posi­tion this week. "I haven't made that decision yet. We'll cross that bridge when we come to it," he said. 
Before joining the Notre Dame staff, Bull held several positions, including the president of the South Bend Federation of Teach­ers, AFL-CIO, during the 1960s, when he led the union in teacher's strikes and collective bargaining negotiations. 
Bull also was the employee re­lations coordinator for the Uni­versity of Wisconsin, Madison, and the personnel administrator for Warren (Mich.) Consolidated Schools during the 1970s before returning to the South Bend area. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 20, 1984 -page 2 

1he wake for Howard resident Donald 
Taylor will be today from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Dale Funeral Home, 572 Nebraska Ave., Toledo, Ohio. Taylor, a sophomore, was killed when his car collided with a train early Sunday morning in South Bend. His funeral will be tomorrow morning at 10 at St. Philip's Lutheran Church, 701 Indiana Ave., Toledo. A memorial service organized by Howard Hall and the Black Cultural Arts Council is beingplanned for after Thanksgiving break. -Tbe Observer 
The dining ball schedule for the Thanksgiving holiday is as follows: The North Dining Hall will close after tomor­row's lunch and will re-open for dinner Sunday. The South Dining Hall will be open tomorrow for dinner, Thanksgiving day for break­fast and a special buffet dinner from 1:30 until 4 pm, Friday and Saturday for continental breakfast, brunch and dinner, and Sunday for continental breakfast, lunch and dinner. -Tbe Observer 
Faith Assembly minister Bruce L. Kinsey, des­cribed as the second-most powerful leader in the controversial faith­healing sect, has left the church over doctrinal disputes with founder Hobart E. Freeman, according to a Warsaw, Ind. report. Kinsey, 38, believes that members, in some cases, should seek a dootor's care, the newspaper said. Church members have said they fear damnation ifthey seek medical help for themselves or their family. Freeman has preached that doctors are tied to witchcraft. The faith-healing practices of church members have resulted in the filing of criminal charges against three Indiana couples and against Freeman. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Shakespeare Societyof Notre Dame will be selling tickets to its 1st Annual Christmas Celebration at the dining halls tonight. The celebration includes a full candlelight dinner and entertainment featuring medieval music and drama. Tickets are lim­ited and are available to students for 13.50 and faculty for $7. The celebration is Saturday, Dec. 8 at 7 p.m. -Tbe Observer 
CotlcertBandauditions for 1984-85 will be held Dec. 3, 4 and 5. Positions are open for all instruments. Audition music is available in the band office at Washington Hall. Call 239-7136 for information. -Tbe Observer 
SJ:l3CeSin the D-6 student parking lot have been op 
p the close of the golfseason. Therefore, Notre Dame Security and District Three Student Senator Dan McNamara have conducted their second annual lottery for senior residents in Fisher, Howard, Morrissey and Pangborn Halls. To find out who won, call McNamara at 283-3674. Winners can get their temporary stickers at the security office beginning today. -The Observer 
Weather 
No snow today, but partly cloudy skies with a high of 35: tomorrow, slightly warmer with a high in the low 40s. Thursday through Saturday: partly sunny and mild Thanksgiving Day. Mostly cloudy and cooler Friday and Saturday, highs in the 40s. -AP 

The-Observer-. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.............................. Tom Small DesignAsststant ........................ Anne Long Layout Staff. ...................... Margo Kirchner Typesetters .............. Mary Ellen. Tom. Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor.............................. John Heasly Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez Viewpoint Layout .............. Byron Stevens Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout........................ Mary Healy ND Day Editor .................. Barbara Stevens f)MC Day Editor .............. .........Shirley Ore Ad Desig11 ................................ Susan O'Hara Photographer ............................ Pete Laches 
Who you gonna call? 
What don't you like about the dining halls? 
Maybe it's last night's mousaka. Or maybe the lines are too long. Or perhaps you could evt:!l voice a com­plaint about your usual luncheon reading material. Chances are there's something you don't like. 
But when Bill Hickey, director of University Food Services, came prepared to listen to student complaints last month at Ombudsman's first attempt at a campus forum, no one had a complaint to voice. In fact, no one showed up. 
Some of us may be short on common sense, others short on brains or looks, but few are short on com­plaints. And we all appreciate an audience for our gripes. 
So why, when Hickey gave his valuable time to respond to student concerns, did no one submit a con­cern to respond to? 
Perhaps no one showed up at the first campus life forum because no one knew about it. With this in mind, Ombudsman heavily 
Amy Stephan 
Project Manager 
Jnside Tuesday 
most students' minds the dorm sessions were just as unproductive as the mass protests. 
Students begin to believe talk is just that -talk. Why trek over to LaFortune to complain, when you could just as easily complain to you roommate? And with the same (lack of) results. 
Objectively, however, it seems unlikely that forum complaints would have fallen on deaf ears. Both the dining halls and the laundry service have responded to student suggestions on several occasions. Calorie totals 
are now posted for most 
publicized their second 
dining hall entrees. St. Mi­forum.. Posters, Hall Presi­chael's Laundry now dents Council representa­operates under a computer­tives and an Observer article ized system and uses a self­
announced this second service laundry pick-up. And forum, which featured the walls in North Dining .. 
Norm Muller, director of laundry and dry cleaning at St. Michael's Laundry. 
And how many people came as a result of this publicity campaign? Well, there was Muller, and his two assistants, an Observer photographer, and, yes, Om­budsman Director Henry Sienkiewicz. 
Another example of stu· dent apathy, perhaps? No one cares enough to try to make a difference. 
Probably not. Notre Dame students in general do care about their school and would be willing to work to effect change, if they felt their actions really would result in change. 
But the typical Domer's experience tells him or her that student input seldom produces concrete results. For example, look at last semester's alcohol policy protests. Students were anything but apathetic as hundreds turned out to demonstrate against the new rules. 
Where did all this protest lead us? We were made to look like spoiled brats who could only unite in protest when our beer was threatened. And the policy did not change. 
On another level, talks and complaint sessions with officials involved produced as little change as the rallies. Perhaps these meetings fostered a better under­standing of the policy and the reasons behind it, but in Hall have been pushed aside.
Wei\1coMe to -fk;..k. 
Many Students ignore
of if, ~e art sortte 
these positive changes and 
-#1i~ ~ I_·d like -lo sit in their rooms complain­
S« ci'ID"')ttl, b""t ing that no one listens to 
their complaints. Perhaps
Wko YEtllit li~s 
they are unaware they have
£1"'1~'1? Nobody 
a ready audience for their 
ho.s ()Yo.'f So-'f 01'\ concerns in Ombudsman. 
fi.iS C~IAS •• • 
OBUD is a student infor­
mation and complaint ser· 
vice. Its volunteers research 
and attempt to respond to 
everything from asbestos in Howard Hall to one too many Italian nights in the dining halls. 
Workers are on duty from noon to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the Ombudsman information booth in LaFortune. These students accept both phone calls and inquiries submitted in person. For those unable to contact OBUD during the afternoon, Ombudsman now features a night phone line which plays a recorded lis­ting of that night's campus events and then records cal­lers' messages. 
Obmudsman volunteers research all inquiries and bring complaints to the attention of the party in ques· tion. They then respond to the student who submitted the inquiry with either a letter or phone call. 
So complain to roommate if you must. Chances are nothing will change. A complaint addressed to Om­budsman, however, just might yield results. 


The Observer 

Stickinghis neckout 
Don Hunt, American wildlife expert, helps load Kenya early Sunday with 21 of the rare giraffes a crated reticulated giraffe aboard a high­that are facing extinction, on a rescue mission to ceilinged cargo plane bound for Busch Gardens help tbe subspecies. wildlife park in Tampa, Fla. Tbe aircraft left 
Tuesday, November 20, 1984 -page 3 
Ethiopians' only hope lies in help_from West 
Assodated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS · Hoosiers with 
ties to Ethopia say help from the 
West is the only hope for victims of 
the famine-plagued African nation. 
"It's all very sad," said Semereret Ab Chernet, who came to this country from Ethiopia six years ago. "It is nothing new. It is just that the media has focused in on it. When I came from there in 1978, even at that time the starvation was ex­treme." 
Bisart G. Meskal, who came to the United States from Ethiopia 12 years ago, agreed that starvation in the northeast African nation is on-going. "Part of it is due to natural causes, some of it from political causes, and some of it because of ignorance and inbred traditions," he said. 
Meskal said the last time the famine reached such proportions was in 1973, which resulted in the downfall ofEmperor Haile Selassie. 
"I don't know what the outcome will be," he said. 
"Who knows what is going on over there,"· Chernet says. "The media there is government­controlled. The only time the public sees it is when they collect these people and put them in camps. You can't put that much credibility in the Marxist-controlled government." 
He said most of the starving are from the northern provinces where the drought is most extreme. 
"There are so many millions of people," he added, "and 99 percent 
"Americans should be more inter­ested in sending things there to help. And the U.S. also should send repre­sentatives to Ethiopia to make sure our contributions are getting to the people who need them." 
Moges Bizuneh, a researcher at Indiana University-Purdue Univer­sity at Indianapolis, said a document smuggled out of Ethiopia last year 
showed most of an 18,000-ton food shipment intended for the famine­stricken went to Ethiopian officials. 
"The food never left Assab (one ot the nation's two ports)," said Bizuneh, a refugee who has lived here nearly four years. 
He said Ethiopian officials tried to arrange for a "false document that said all the food was distributed to all people concerned. That govern­ment is very corrupt, not trustworthy." 
Bizuneh gained local attention in December 1982 when he regained his son, then 6, from Ethiopia after fleeing the country because ofpoliti­cal oppression. 
Store 
continued/rom page 1 
aids, and generic products. For the grand opening, he envisions about 75 percent ofthe stock being school supplies. 
Browne estimated the initial cost 

of them are uneducated. They don't know what's going on. They are just victims. I am just sorry I have no way to help them." 
Aster Henry, 31, who moved to In­dianapolis from Ethiopia in 1972, also said Americans must do their part to aid her native land. 
Board 
continuedfrom page 1 
Several board members com­
mented on the success of the event, 
aimed towards increasing world 
humger awareness. 
The loft policy was again dis­
cussed. The board's committee on 
the loft policy is debating certain 
aspects of the loft kits and consider­
ing possible alternatives. 
ofthe store, without inventory, to be about 1800. Inventory would cost another 18,000, and Student Activi­ties Board Manager Kevin McGovern said entire cost, includ­ing the grand opening, would be close to $10,000. 
Student Body President Rob Ber­tino said the project was being un­derwritten by student government, with the Student Activities Board re­ceiving a budget for the project and possibly a loan to cover the start-up cost. 
Browne said ifthe store showed a profit, prices would be lowered. "It is a break-even service to the stu­dents," he added. 
Other members ofBrowne's com­mittee were Lori Kluczyk and Christine Harrington. 
It was announced that a complete report on the entire project will be made available next week. 

MORGAN STANLEY 
will host an informal reception to discuss 2-year job opportunities for 1985 graduates as 
Financial Analysts 
•

zn Investment Banking 
Tuesday, November 27, 1984 7:00P.M. 
The Morris Inn 
NURSING MAJORS INTENSIVELY CARE FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
. 277-2151 
$1.00 off any p1zza.$1.00 One coupon per pizza. 
Off Fast, Free De!ivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 
Phone: 2n-2151  
- Expires in one week.  
~----­I  JTC NA 12772b50 1:!:!)'"""'-<Pm>~li.....  

1 . ---------~ South Bend 
----------..-.... l!l
• 



The Observer 

Tuesday,-November 20, 1984 -page 4 

Reagan fiscal advisors split on spending cuts 
Assodatcd Press 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. -Presi­
dent Reagan's budget advisers are 
second-guessing the president's 
campaign promises against tax in­
creases and Social Security cuts as 
they search for -but cannot find ­
ways to cut federal spending by S50 
billion in fiscal year 1986. 
An administration official, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press that the 12 high-level officials who comprise the budget group are so badly splintered that they may be unable to agree on where to recom­mend that Reagan look for the spending cuts. 
Instead, the administration official said the group may give Reagan a long list ofoptions, including cuts in defense spending, and ask him to select enough savings to total S50 billion. 
That would be a highly unusual departure from past White House practice. Reagan is known to prefer that his advisers reach a consensus and present it for his approval or dis­approval. 
But the administration official said the task of finding SSO billion in spending cuts appeared impossiblt, given the fact that nearly two-thirds of the federal budget is off-limits. 
After i 2 hours of meetings last week, the group agreed to recom­mend S50 billion in spending cuts and to aim for a budget deficit of 4 percent of Gross National Product for fiscal year 1986, declining to 2 percent in 1988. 
That would translate into a deficit of roughly S160 billion in 1986, compared with the projected 1986 deficit of S206 billion if no further action were taken. The group's defi-
Fire 
continuedfrom page I 
A spokesman for the government­run petroleum monopoly Pemex said a gas truck apparently ex­ploded, touching off subsequent ex­plosions, first at Unigas Co. natural gas holding tanks and then at Pemex gas storage facilities. 
Arturo Escamilla, a worker with the private volunteer rescue agency Laser, estimated that the initial blast leveled more than 30 acres ofhomes and other buildings near the fuel storage complex. "There were people coming out of there all ablaze," said his brother Isidro, also a rescue worker. 
A policeman, Genovevo Rivas, 
said the blast blew the roof off a 
nearby supermarket. 
Alfredo del Mazo, governor of the 
state of Mexico, had initially re­
ported at least 80 people were killed 
and more than 300 were injured in . the crowded northeast suburb. 
Officials turned off a main gas 
pipeline supplying the Mexican cap­
ital for fear of more explosions. 
A church and a subway station 
became first-aid centers for the 
overflow from hospitals. Many 
people fled barefoot, wearing only 
their underwear. 
Associated Press correspondent Concepcion Badillo, among the first to enter the area while the fires were classified as out of control, said the town was deserted but for stretcher bearers carrying out bodies. Broken glass, burning timbers and debris blocked streets, and pools of drying blood stained sidewalks. 
Area residents said they were rocked out oftheir beds by one huge explosion followed by perhaps a dozen smaller blasts. 
"I felt as if there was an earthquake," one unidentified resi­dent said. "It shook the earth and then huge flames shot up." 
cit target for 1988 would be just over S l 00 billion. 
The group was formally charged with recommending to Reagan a def­icit target figure to be used as the basis for developing the fiscal year 1986 budget the administration will submit to Congress in january. 
Its findings are to be presented to Reagan when he ends his extended Thanksgiving holiday here and returns to Washington next week. 
The official, expressing concern that the White House· had backed it­self into a corner, said it would be nearly impossible to achieve a S50 billion spending reduction by simply cutting such federal pro­grams·as MediCaid, Civil Service re­tirement, farm price supports and student aid. 
He said that after ruling out all the untouchable areas in the budget-as­suming that Reagan continues with his inclination not to cut defense spending, raise taxes or touch Social Security -there remained only a total of S200 billion in spending which could be cut. 
Those areas that Reagan has ex­empted, along with the interest on the debt, add up to two-thirds of total spending. 
As a measure ofthe seriousness of the situation, the official said presidential counselor Edwin Meese was proposing again to eliminate the Departments of Education and En­ergy, transferring some oftheir func­tions to other Cabinet agencies. But he said even such drastic moves would only result in relatively small savings. The entire Education De­partment budget is S16 billion. Some members of the group are 
pushing  for  an  across-the-board  
spending  freeze,  and  others  feel  
there is  no  way  to  avoid cutting  
defense spending.  

As a result, this official sai<.! Reagan's option list probably would include three choices on defense spending: a 7 percent increase, a 5 percent increase and no increase. 
Officially, White House aides have been tight-lipped about the budget process. Deputy press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said the administra­tion's goal was to balance the budget eventually, but refused to set a deadline. 

Wl1t i!(nig}Jts oftlte <!!astle 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest. .. minutes from campus ! 

s OOHAIRCUTS 

Haircut,

272-0312. 277-1691 shampoo, 
54533 Terrace Lane & blowdry (St. Rd, 23) Across from Martin's $8.50 
(hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
. 

We are only minutes from campus! 

Wanningup 
Two students wann up in Angela Atheltic Facility before beginning yesterday's Turkey Trot atSaint Mary's. Thefourth annual race attracted approxi11Ultely 163 runners, in spite of the sub­
·­
TYPING 
Term Papers 
l Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 

---·---· 
IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING 
On Campus: 
Groundskeeping, leaf raking, snow removal 12 hrs./week, flexible to student's schedule NO FINANCIAL AID REQUIRED Contact: Student Employment Office 
109 Administration Building 239-6436 
. 

CHRISTMAS 
PARTY? 
for faculty, staff, students, clubs, or other organizations... 
CATERING AVAILABLE! 
To rent out Senior Bar, call .. KATHEY at 239-7521 
The Irish Gardens 
Stay on campus and save $$ $ by letting us take care of your flower nHds 
Dial M-U·M-8 (6867) to place an order 

Located off the Razz in the basement of Lafortune 
Hours: 12:30-5:30 
freezing temperatures and snowflurries. Faculty, staff, and students alikeparticipated in the run, organized by Saint Mary's Department of Ath· letics. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 20, 1984 -page 5 
. 

Politics play a part in anti-Sikh rioting and murders 
Assodated Press 
NEW DELHI, India -More than revenge and religion fueled the anti­Sikh riots, arson, and murder that fol­lowed Indira Gandhi's assassination by two men identified as Sikhs. Greed, envy and politics played a part as well. 
While nearly all the victims were Sikhs and all the attackers were Hindus, virtually all those who risked their lives to protect Sikhs were Hindus. 
Beyond the Hindu backlash, the carnage was fueled by class and eco­nomic disparities and resentments, ahetted by sympathetic or helpless police and fanned by Hindu politicians of the governing Congress Party who led mobs of voters to loot and burn. 

Virtually all the attackers were the poor and dispossessed living on the outskirts of the capital, the tinder­box of have-nots in a nation of vast and widening economic gulfs. Many were outsiders, not neighbors. 
The nationwide death toll in four days of communal violence was more than 1,200; citizens and civil liberties groups claim that 1,000 were killed in New Delhi alone. 
At first the rioting w.1s sparked by fury over Gandhi's assassination and outrage that a few Sikhs were jubilant, passing out sweets and rejoicing at the death of the woman they considered their oppressor. 
Swiftly, powerful econ'.>mic, 

sociological and political factors came into play, as they have in all of India's many religious riots since it gained independence from Britain in 1947. 
A major report by two civil liberties groups said the New Delhi riots were not spontaneous but the result "ofa well organized plan." 
Although India's 13 million Sikhs represent only 2 percent of India's 730 million people, as a group they are highly visible, enterprising, prosperous and relatively well off. 
Often they are envied for their economic status, even if it is only marginally better, and resented as being somewhat clannish. In India, where begging is commonplace, Sikh beggars are rarely seen. 
Many of the Sikh victims were poor by most standards · tea stall owners or rickshaw drivers; but as a class they were better-off and their incomes steadier than those of their attackers, many of whom were un­employed, rootless and without prospects. 
"These were not Hindu-Sikh riots, these were goonda ( thug)-Sikh riots," observed one elderly Sikh. "The trouble is the goondas, the politicians and the police. We are grateful to our Hindu neighbors." 
"'Ibe proximate causes are clear but it is necessary to go deeper," the Indian Express said in an editorial. "Below a seemingly surface calm, large parts of India constitute a so­cial tinderbox that can be easily ignited at any time on one pretext or another." 
The civil liberties report accused senior Congress Party politicians, the police and the local administra­tion of involvement in the New Delhi riots. It named 16 leaders of the Congress Party, including four members of Parliament, 13 police officers and 198 citizens who "instigated violence and/or protected criminals." 
The report was i~ued by the respected People's Union for Civil Uberties and the Union for Demo· cratic Rights. They demanded an im­mediate investigation and punishment of the guilty. 
Hundreds of eyewitness reports have cited police inaction or actual 


participation, but few police have been sacked and there have been no reports ofpolitical leaders arrested. 
Israelis reject demands for reparations 
Associated Press 
NAQOURA, Lebanon -Israel yes­terday rejected Lebanon's demand for up to S10 billion in war repara­tions and insisted that security of Is­rael's northern border was the primary goal of negotiations on withdrawal ofIsraeli troops. 
But Lebanese negotiators argued that their country would not be "Israel's policeman" after removal of Israeli occupation forces from southern Lebanon. 
In southern Lebanon, residents of two villages told Lebanese reporters yesterday of outbreaks of shooting by the Israel occupation force in which eight villagers were wounded. The Israeli military com­mand did not confirm the shooting, but reported an Israeli soldier wounded by a grenade. 

In Beirut, Shiite Moslem leader Nabih Berri charged that Israel was behind the slaying of a Shiite cler­gyman and hinted Lebanon might walk out of the talks for the second time since negotiations began Nov. 8. 
"We cannot stand handcuffed in the face of these practices," said Berri, a Lebanese Cabinet minister and leader of the Shiite militia Amal, which is waging a resistance cam­paign against Israel's occupation. 


THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. THE EASY WAY TO CALL HOME AND SHARE YOUR SMASHING SUCCESSES. 

paying for the call. And since you can r------------,
GET THE AT&T CALL ME CARD.
only call home with the CALL ME 
THE BEST WAY TO CALL HOME.
Card, Mom and Dad don't mind pick­
WHEN YOU'RE AWAY FROM HOME.
ing up the tab. Calli 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 50 to have a GET ACLUE. CALL ME Card application sent to your parents. Or complete and return this form
GET THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. 
to AT&T College Promotions, P.O. Box 49466, Atlanta, GA 30359.
So be a hometown hero. Call home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. And 
Your Par~nr,· Nam~

let the folks know their favorite ath­College is great for heroic lete hasn't forgotten where it all Addre~» exploits. Sometimes you get all the started. 
Ctty/State/Ziplucky breaks. And other times, well-Don't have an AT&T CALL ME ( ) Don't keep your favorite fan club in Card yet? Mail the coupon at right to Par~nr,· Phont· So. suspense. Call home with the AT&T AT&T and we'll send an application 
Your ~amdO M r./0 M'.)
CALL ME Card. The quick and conve­home to your parents. Or phone: nient way to get in touch with your Colle~t· family. Without the hassle of calling Ch~t·k Cl;~,,: 0 Fr. 0 Soph. 0 Jr. 0 Sr. 0 Grad.
L ___________ 'U 
collect, fumbling for spare change or 1800 CAll An, Ext. 50. 
-

.ATs.T 
-
:It 
"Where do YOU Live?'' 
''COME 
and SEE!'' 
That's the invitation JESUS gives to each of us. 
We CROSIERS, priests and brothers, invite Catholic men, college age or older, to COME and SEE what our life is all about. 
Join us at our CHICAGO, ILLINOIS Community over the weekend of Dec. 1·9, 1984. 
For more Information write to: CHICAGO CROSIER 

LIVE-IN Crosier Vocation Office 3204 East 43rd Street Minneapolis, MN 55406 
,.,or Call Brother Gus Schloesser collect (612l 722-2223 

Viewe0 int Tu~ay, November 20, 1984-page 6 
Prince Edward Island sends her regards 
I don't mind telling you, President Reagan, I was pretty darned glad to hear you won the election. 
Of course, I really have no right to say so, being a Canadian and living up here in Prince Edward Island-PEl as we like to refer to her. 
Cam Sylvester 

guest column 
But as a successful politician myself, let me say· you sure as the dickens made all that election stuff look easy. You made it look like shooting cod in a rainbacrel, that's what me father used to say. 
Your opponent there-that Mondale fella­didn't make it all that tough though, eh? He was about as mixed up as a dog's breakfast with aU his talk about foreign and domest­icated policies. He wasn't like you. Keep it simple, that's what me father would say. It was talk like that which won him a seat on our North Rustico town council back in the thirties. The same one that he passed on to me. Watching you talk on the tube reminds me of the old man. People in these parts used to refer to him as the Great Communicator too. He could talk the antlers off the elk if the elk was fool enough. That's what they used to say. 
The wife and me got to watch you and Old Walter debate on the T.V. a couple weeks ago. You looked pretty chipper. His nose was too big for my liking. God knows why, but he charmed the pants off Martha. She said he made a lot of sense. Then again, you know those womenfolk. They are pretty much molly-coddles with their talk about helping the poor. I swear Martha spends halfher life at church functions sewing up this or cooking up that for the family of some poor fella who won't get off his butt and make an honest living. Wouldn't catch me within a mile ofone ofher church functions though -or you either, I bet, except around election time, eh? This is from one politician to another, ofcourse. 
Speaking of womenfolk, that reminds me. I'm pretty glad you kept that Ferraro lady out of the White House. Hell, who knows how many quilt parties she'd have had for foreign leaders ifshe'd got in. Ifyou had asked me, I'd have assigned her a few Sikh Secret Service men for the campaign. I'm sure old George would have agreed, eh? "Kick a little ass!" That one had us snorting for days up here. 
Anyway, like I said President Reagan, I was right happy to hear you won cause it means you'll be around for a few more years, eh, and I was wondering if you could do me a little favour. 
I know you're pretty busy down there in El Salvador and Nickyragwa kicking Rusky butts and keeping the world safe for democracy and all. I, for one, wouldn't want to lose those colonies to the other side. But seeing it's been a year since that Grenady invasion, your troops would be just about ready to get some rescuing in before Christmas. And, President Reagan, we're in the middle of one dilly of a Communist conspiracy up here in North Rus­tico, so I figured you might be interested in giving us a hand mopping up the Red Tide, so to speak. 
The source of this Communist conspiracy, Pr~sident Reagan, .is my neighbour Cli1Jord McCarville. Now I know he doesn't look like one of your regular Communist sympathizers at first, but that's because he's about as sneaky as Buster the big bass in Joe Coyle's pond. After some pretty ingenious intelligence work on my part, though, I caught the devil red­handed. 
The first thing that tipped me off were his potatoes. He grows them on the farm next to my hotel and we buy some for the cafe Martha and I run for breakfast, lunch, dinner and brunch on Sundays. There was something peculiar about them but I wasn't sure just what. Then it hit me. If you looked at them from a certain angle they were the exact shape of the Soviet Union. Of course, you had to in­clude Mongolia. But it was concrete proof, just the same. 
I began checking up on old Cli1Jord. I found out he voted for the New Democratic Party in the last election. Sure enough he voted for Paddy O'Leary, our local Socialist. O'Leary darned near won my seat away from me too. He would have, in fact, if Molly O'Laughlin, 
North  Rustico's  official  tabulator  and  my  
sister-in-law,  hadn't  misplaced  a  few  of  
O'Leary's votes.  

That's right. North Rustico came within a cow's breath of having a Communist govern­ment. And I need not remind you that it's just a few miles as the crow flies across New Brunswick, into Maine and on into Washing­ton. Kinda makes you think, don't it? 
But the hook line and sinker, President Reagan, is the air strip. Sure enough, Old Clif­ford the Red has a full fledged air strip hidden out in his potato fields. Big enough to land any Russian plane you want -Bear, Bisson, or even those new Minks they're sneaking into Central America. Of course, he claims it's just for a crop-dusting plane he intends to buy. But I wasn't born yesterday. 
I took the liberty to check it out last week. He had a crew of men working on it. They were Cubans for sure. I could tell by their dark skin and the music they were listening to ­something subversive like Menudo or the Beach Boys. Oh, yeah, they were smoking cigars and one of them had a beard. 
I'm sure you can sense the gravity of the situation, President Reagan. A.erotlot planes are landing up in Gander all the time. At last count, half the Russian population was hiding behind ticket booths asking for asylum. I'd bet the whole lot are spies just waiting to join Clif· ford and his band of Merry Mensheviks down here in North Rustiko. I wouldn't be being honest with you, sir, if I didn't tell you I'm some concerned. 
As I see it, it wouldn't be any trouble for you to take care of. just land a few ofyour marines in Malepeque Bay. They'd just have to march a few miles west, making sure not to wake the folks in Kensington. The kids are usually back from making out in the Provincial Pack by 
11:00 p.m. ( ll:30 Newfoundland time) so it would be best to land after midnight. 
Ifyou're worried about the press, don't be. jim Kelly, our local editor, will be in St. John's all next week covering the 4·H Club Exhibi­tion so you can shoot off rockets and blow up Cli1Jord's barn all you like. I'll even give your fellas a good off·season rate at my hotel. 
I'll be expecting to hear from you soon, President Reagan. If I sound too forceful, I apologize. like my grandpa used to say, "It's the noisiest wheel that gets the oil." I was a might worried you'd head south before I had a chance to get a hold ofyou. 
Once again, congratulations. Seems like on Nov. 6 there were a lot a people like me down there in the "U.S. ofA" ready to back you up. In fact, it's times like that I wish I was an Ameri­can too, just so I could have voted right along with the herd, as me father used to say. 
Cam Sylvester is a graduate student at NotreDame. · • 
P.O. BoxQ 
Another student almost chokes on broccoli 
DearEditor: 

In reading McMenamin's letter on the "Blatant Exploitation of Men," I was so outraged that/ almost choked onmy broccoli cheese casserole. Who the heck doeshe think he is anyway? 
For years women have dealt with the issue 
of exploitation. We are still dealing with it 
today in all areas of society, including our 
little haven here at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. 
McMenamin's outrage at being asked to ap­
pear in the "Men of Notre DAme Calendar" is 
just another case of this exploitation of wo­
men. His article is a joke. He is not mad, nor is 
he OL\traged -I doubt that he even cleans his 
room, much less changes his sheets every 
other week. He is making a mockery out ofall 
the letters of outrage that women have writ­
ten on the issue ofour sexual exploitation. If 
McMenamin were truly angry about the ex­
ploitation of his supposed "good" looks, he 
would have written a mature, intelligent state­
ment on the issue. 

I agree with McMenamin that men should 
not be exploited for their looks. No one 
should be exploited for this. It is simply in­
tolerable. However, I believe it is we, the wo­
men, who deserve the greatest apology, not 
McMenamin. 

Yvonne Bush LeMansHall 
The Hunger Coalition thanks Saint Mary's 
DearEditor: 

Thursday, Nov. 15, marked a very special day on the Saint Mary's campus-the Oxfam Fast. The dining hall was virtually empty, our stomachs rumbled and we thought a lot about our next meal. 
For most of us, who have healthy appetites, it was extremely difficult for us not to think about food that day. In our minds, dining hall delights such as beefstew and spinach crepes became feasts of culinary prowess. By 5:30 that evening anything sounded good to us, but we knew that it was only hours until we could call the Domino's man. 
For participators in the fast, the event was 
personally rewarding. It meant that the SMC 
World Hunger Coalition would make two 
very important dollars on each of us which 
would assist hungry people as dose as South 
Bend and as far as Bangledesh. But it taught us 
much more than that. For twenty-four hours, 
hunger was an issue in our well-fed lives. It 
opened our eyes to a situation that, for­
tunately, most of us at Saint Mary's will never 
experience. It also opened them just a bit 
wider to a problem that is faced by billions of 
people each day. 

The SMC World Hunger Coalition would 
like to thank the more than one thousand 
members of the Saint Mary's community who 
participated faithfully in the fast, as well as 
many organizations which aided us. During 
the four years this fast has been held, this fast 
generated more excitement and awareness 
than ever before. It was a wonderful commu­
nity experience. 

Colleen Flynn Anne Gallagher SaintMary's WorldHunger Coalition 
Harrison's accusations miss mark at WSND 
DearEditor: 

This letter is in response to Keith Harrison's semi-amusing letter in Thursday's Inside column. In fact, when you come right down to it, we, the volunteers and students who oper­ate Notre Dame Public Radio do not find it amusing at all, when he accuses Notre Dame of"shoving its rock station in the void known as the AM dial, while devoting its FM stereo station to classical music." 
Before Harrison decides to write another article he probably should check out his facts first. Let's look at a few. 
First, WSND-FM has been around much longer than our sister station WVFI, about 1 0 years in fact. We have always been playing classical music since our beginning and there is no real reason to change now. We serve not only the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College with this service but also the Mischiana listening area, bringing them the best in classical and fine arts programming for apporximately 17 hours a day. 
Second, for the remaining 2 to 5 hours of our programming day we feature the Noc­turne Nightftight, a show incidently which has been around also since the beginning days of Notre Dame Radio. From the hours of Mid­night until whenever the OJ feels like ending the show, we feature a wide variety ofthe new music on the charts as well as the old, from all spectrums of the music world, including jazz, Rock-n-Roll, Rhythm and Blues, and believe it or not Progressive Music. It is not unusual to 
·turn to 88.9 FM and hear such groups as The Bangles, joe "KING" Carrasco, or the Psyc­hadelic Furs, as well as Chaka Khan, The Fixx and Prince after the Midnight hour. We also take requests and honor better than 57 per­cent of them during the night. 
Finally, Notre Dame did not "shove" its rock station into the void ofAM. Back in 1953 or so, when the students were given the op­portunity to have a rock station, they were of­fered the AM band, which was left over from FM's move to 88.9 FM, as well as our present home here in the top ofO'Shaugnessy Tower, along with, what was then one of the most up to date AM systems in the nation. 
In writing his article, it was Harrison who made a "rare showing of Penn State logic," with his obscure and rather cheap acquation of its placing of its radio stations. Perhaps Mr. Harrison should listen to FM for more than five minutes; he might learn something. 
Reginald V. Daniel NocturneNightflight Director WSND-FM 
HPC does not just discuss pizza 
DearEditor: 

I am writing in response to joe Murphy's Viewpoint article that appeared in The Observer on Nov. 15. 
I am outraged that Murphy unfairly takes a stab at the Hall Presidents Council without fully disclosing all the topics discussed at a recent HPC meeting in which Duane 
The Observer 
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 1219}23~·5303 
Thp Oosrtll!" ,., th~r ontfl!~naenl ne..,.s~<iPl:'' pu[)IISh.cl bv the "''udenls ol the Unr~ers,tv ct Nc.t•f!' D•me Clu Lac tl'Ul S••nt 'vl.Jr'; ColleQe U does "01 ne-ces~a,,.) rtllec I t~e pohc•es ot the Gdm•nr~l•iiluJn ot e·l ~ •• •nst •tuhon The news •S r~ported as I• C\.1'"'" v and •5-oCr~Cl•~f'l f ..~~ pc.S!.•OI~ Unsu~ned ed•lo•••IS represent ttl• op•n•on ~· d ... a, . ..,., v! the Ed•I::J"a' Soard Comm~nrar•j!S '""•' and It'll!' lns•r:IE' Column prPSe>r! In,-. ••I!'""'> ,,! 1r...,, <iulhpo<. c._..umn 'SOdCe .;:, dv.l•1401e I:J .II "\@m~r<;. ~~ rnp 
··I'TV"u"'', a.,o InfO '•f'e e"ore~1.or)n .yt v4• r•"\J OO•~"~tO"~ ·:J~"~ ~ •mou~ ltHOuQh •ellf''"" , f!'tlCOll'oJQ,.IJ 
Lawrence objected to pizza after HPC meetings. 
First of all, the Council did not "ignore" the protest but spent considerably too much time in discussing this relatively insignificant topic. As suggested by Pat Stierwalt, secretary of HPC, the after-meeting refreshments were originally introduced to allow hall presidents to compare the products of each hall's foodsales. In this manner, any funds spent were channeled back into the sponsor hall. 
Second, it should be known that a 15 to nine vote was taken against continuing to provide refreshments after the meetings, and not spe­cifically "pizza parties" as Murphy states. As one who voted against the refreshments, I would like to make it clear that after the vote was uken, the overriding opinion was that the sponsor hall would try to provide a sample from its foodsales in the future. I do not think this goodwill agreement is too "frivolous" as Murphy suggests. 
Third, I feel Murphy is undeniably wrong in suggesting that HPC is not doing its job responsibly,· as are other campus groups. Murphy and the residents ofhis hall would not be as well-informed of campus events if it were not for his hall president and the HPC's assistance to these important events. 
Last, I recommend that Murphy attend an HPC meeting to see for himself that these meetings do. in fact, last longer than "thirty minutes." He will then be able to see what goes on during and after the meetings. It is unfortunate that he does not see the behind­the-scenes work that a hall president performs after the meetings, as student senators and ombudsmen do similarly. 
Murphy, please, think before you write! 
Lori Kluczyk Badin Hall President 

All letters and guest columns should be sent to P.O Box Q or hand delievered to The Observer which is located on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Ed•lm 1n Ch1•t  Bot Vond~rhetdP  8uS•,@'SS M.iftii9Pt  o.. "~ T••t:lf''  
Manag1ng fCJ110r  M~r~ worscheh  Conrrooer  Mar,par Horne  
NPWS fclffor  Saroillh Hdmttton  Aa..E'n•s•n9 .\of•nd9f''  Anne Cull•;;~an  
N~tuEd•lot  Dan McCunouQh  C"CUidi•O" lw4•notgr·  JrttONetll  
S.t1rtl Mur~ s Ed1101  Anne Mo.,ast~rs,k•  Sntt>ms M.Jn.lgrr  Kevan W•lhams  
Spoas Ed•to,  M.cn.tel S.uH•v<~n  
~'•f.>.III/JOlnl t; (J1IOt  OaveGrfltfo  
,. •<~ tutrs f C1• rot PfiOIO Ea•ror  '-'1dr, Hf!o11y P~'" tact,e.,  Founded Nowember 3. 196ii  

' 

Tuesday, November 20, 1984-page 7 
Accent 

'My kind oftown' can be yours, too 
;J i 
·
..,' 
qd
tq 
I . 
I I ~ 
i 
I I 
t • 

A special section featuring: 
• 
Museums 

• 
Attractions 

• 
Bars 

• 
Shopping 


• 
How to get around 


Stories and photos by Sarah Hamilton and Margaret Fosmoe 
t I I I A complete education 
• demands a road trip 
""]""fhe Windy City. pology, botany, geology and zool­
~ The Second City. ogy. This museum is for visitors Chi-Town. interested in man and his environ­And it's only two hours away. ment, from prehistory to the pres­Whether you're looking for a ent. 
little nightlife, the perfect The Adler Planetarium, 1300 S. Christmas present or just a brief Lake Shore Dr., was the first respite from life under the Dome, planetarium in the western hemi­Chicago is the place to go. sphere. A visit to the planetarium is 
The ties between Notre Dame a definite opportunity to gain some and Chicago are so numerous that a knowledge that is not readily Notre Dame or Saint Mary's educa­available, even at most universities. tion can not be considered com­Ifyou still find yourself thirsting plete without at least one visit to for knowledge, a number of other our northwestern neighbor. Chicago museums are just waiting 
A proper Chicago roadtrip should for you. There is the Museum of involve more than a one-day shop­Contemporary Art, the Chicago ping expedition and a drink on Academy ofSciences and theJohn Rush Street. Nearly everyone here G. Shedd Aquarium, among others. knows someone in Chicago (the • Ifyou're not looking for in­city boosts the second-highest ratio creased knowledge in particular, ofN.D. alumni in the world, after but just a little widening ofyour South Bend) .... Call up a recent cultural horizons, take a ride up to grad friend who lives there and Chinatown, at Cermak and make a weekend of it. Wentworth. In Chicago's 
A trip to Chicago should allow Chinatown, you'll experience a the first-time visitor a chance to cultural awakening, as well as experience the unique aspects of quaint shopping and great dining the city · the things that set Chicago opportunities. apart from New York, Houston or For a look at a unique historical Los Angeles. landmark, visit Chicago's famous 
There is the Sears Tower, for Water Tower on North Michigan example, the tallest building in the Ave. One of the city's only world, 230 S. Wacker Dr. A 103-landmarks to survive the Great floor elevator ride takes you to a Chicago Fire of 1871, the Water skydeck that provides a stunning Tower has been renovated into a view from the heart ofthe city. Visitor Information Center. While 
When you come down, walk over you're in the area, you might want to the Chicago Board ofTrade, 141 to cross Michigan Ave. and examine
Marshall Field and Company, located in the heart of the downtown State Street area, offers a shop­
W. Jackson, and view the proceed­the Water Tower Pumping Station,
ping experiencefew can pass by. 

ings at the world's oldest and larg­where some relics ofthe Great Fire est commodities futures exchange. are on display. For $3.75, you can Ifyou want an even better view view "Here's Chicago!" a slide and ofthe Lake Michigan lakefron~ and film presentation about the city,
If there were only 01ore hours in the night 
F
Michigan Avenue than the Sears available in the Pumping Station. Tower provides, at a lesser altitude, Ifyou're in the mood for some or students, the chance for a Ilncoln Park Ave., features a giant Christmas Carol" will be playing at grab an elevator up to the 94th exercise, and the weather is good, little big-city nightlife is dance floor with music ofthe '50s the Goodman Theatre from Dec. II floor oftheJohn Hancock Building. take a stroll through Ilncoln Park probably the major reason to head and '60s. Each Chicago bar has a 
to 29. Once you'vc: gained an overview on the North Side. The pack affords to the Windy City. theme and personality ofits own. "The Hunchback ofNotre Dame" ofthe city, why not supplement an excellent view ofthe lake, a.~ 
Ifyou're looking for nightlife that Take the time to explore and find is playing in the Theatre Shoppe at your education with a visit to some well as cqntaining a number of is a far cry from South Bend, head the one that's right for you. 2636 N. Lincoln Ave. until Dec. 16. ofChicago's many museums? interesting landmarks. For you for Rush Street. Rush Street and the Ifyou'd rather laugh than bar­Yul Brynner will be performing The Art Institute ofChicago, history buffs, the Chicago Historical surrounding blocks are the heart of hop, take a ride over to Old Town in Rodgers and Hammerstein's "The Michigan Ave. at Adams, is an excel­Society is located at the Park's south Chicago nighttime entertainment. and attend The Second City. This is King and I" at the Arie Crown lent start for budding artists. Sup­side. The Ilncoln Park Zoo, newly­
Classy bars, jazz clubs, dancing and the famous Chicago comedy club Theatre at McCormick Place until plementing the large impressive renovated and free to the public, is good restaurants line the streets. that spawned tbe careers of com­Dec. 21. 
museum collection is a constant located in the heart ofthe pack. The 
Looking for a good old-fashioned edienes like John Belushi, Mary The shows are always changing stream ofloan exhibits from all over Ilncoln Pack Conservatory is filled Irish bar? Visit Muldoon's, Tyler Moore and Chevy Chase. For and it's best to check for schedules the world. with beautiful gardens, fountains Houlihan's or Butch McGuire's. S7, you'll be treated to a very and availability of tickets when The Museum ofScience and and statues and hosts four major 
Other popular taverns in that memorable comedy experience. If you're in town. Utilize the "Curtain Industry, 57th St. and Lakeshore shows a year. district are The Snuggery, The you stick around until 1 a.m., you Call" number, 977-1755, to find out Dr., is not your typical museum. As The permanent landmarks that Lodge and Mother's, all on Division can attend the late-night comedy what's playing. a visitor, you'll work as you learn by make Chicago unique are endless. Street. improv show for free. pushing buttons and lifting levers There are also constantly-changing 
A second popular bar district is The opportunity to attend the "Hot Tix," 24 S. State Street, is a on displays that demonstrate the attractions that can add much to a located in the Lincoln Park area. theatre is another night-life benefit ticket booth that sells tickets for principles ofscience. You won't visit to the city. For details on cur­The Bulls, 1916 N. Lincoln Park of going to Chicago. And any ofa current shows for as little as half find another museum like this rent attractions in Chicago while West, offers live jazz and great number ofupcoming productions price th~ day of the show. Ifyou anywhere. you're there, call the Chicago double cheese pizza every night of are sure to interest student visitors. want to attend a show, but don't The Field Museum of Natural Visitor Eventline, 225-2323. The the year. Ifyou want to get into the want to spend a fortune, stop in at History, Lake Shore Dr. at Roosevelt Mayor's Office ofSpecial Events 
Juke Box Saturday Night, 22S 1 N. holiday spirit, Charles Dickens' "A Hot Tix and see what's available. Rd., contains exhibits about anthro-also has a hotline at 744-3370. 
~-------------­
! 
Accent 

When a cheezborger would hit the spot. .. 
W
hen in Chicago and looking Th9ugh some may venture down Five years later Wrigley for refreshment most college from Michigan Avenue just to responded to Sianis with a letter students run to Rush St. But what satisfy their curiosity, once they asking for forgiveness: "Will you about when you have a craving for a descend the steps into Billy Goat's, pleao;e extend to him (Murphy) my cheezborger? the history of the tavern touches all most sincere and abject apologies, Stashed away underneath Mic­five senses. Blown up copies of and ask him not only to remove the 
., higan A venue is the Billy Goat newspaper clippings and bylines of hex, but to reverse the flow and Tavern, the bar and restaurant that some ofthe tavern's patrons from start pulling for wins?" Sianis's reply inspired John Belushi's "Saturday the fourth estate share wall space to the press was succinct: "I never Night Live" skit which featured the with photographs ofBillygoat, Sam forgive. And I never forget. The goat catch-phrases: "Cheezborger, and friends ofthe place, all died shortly afterwards ofa broken cheezborger, cheezborger ... No yellowed and spotted with ham­heart." Billygoat finally removed Coke-Pepsi. No fries-cheeps." burger grease. the hex in 1969, one year before he 
Billy Goat's was founded in 1934 Ifyou stop in for a cheezborger, died. Nonetheless the Cubs blew a by William "Billygoat" Sianis, a do not leave before you have read nine-game lead. Greek emigrant with a knack for some ofthe anecdotes and stranger­The Cubs apparently did not self-promotion. In its 50-year his­than-fiction stories of Billy Goat's. learn their lesson because onJuly 4, tory the tavern has become known One such tale recounts how Billy 1973 the Cubs were in first place by 
as the Chicago newspaperman's 'Goat's acquired its name. seven games, and Sam Sianis 
refuge. But in the last decade, it has brought his goat, Socrates, to played host to a new breed ofpa­On Saturday, March 4, 1934 Wrigley Field. Again, the goat was trons: the curiosity seekers, William Sianis bought the Lincoln kicked out of the park. The hex was 
"tourists" to the regulars. Tavern at 18'55 W. Madison St. with back on. Within two weeks the Two native Chicagoans, Chicago a S205 check. (He did not move to Cubs had dropped out offirst place. Tribune columnist Mike Royko, and his Michigan Ave.location until When the Tribune Company pur­the late television and movie actor 1963.) Although the check was no chased the team Sam was allowed John Belushi have spurred this new good, Sianis made enough money 
to bring in his goat on Opening Day popularity by giving a mythic the first two nights to pay it off in 1982. quality to the tavern and its present Monday morning when the banks 
"Hex ees off. I theenk they gonna owner, Sam Sianis, the origianl opened. He kept the tavern's 
have a winning team soon, then I owner's nephew. original name for the first few bring goat to series. They have to Royko journalized the adventures months until that summer when a let me in if they want to win eet," and characters of Billy Goat's in his goat fell off a passing truck and Sianis said earlier this year. 
column in the old Chicago Dally found its way inside. 
You would think the Cubs would News. One such event was when 
have leat'ned their lesson by now. Billy Goat's. in 1974, entertained its Despite the objection ofits Perhaps the ushers did not get the first streaker. "Sianis picked up a owner Sianis adopted the goat. The message this season, to admit any beer bottle and shouted at the owner took Sianis to coun, but the 
goat with a ticket? Forget the car. The train is thenaked young man: 'You dirty som­judge ruled in the tavern owner's easiest and often quickest modemabeesh, I'm gonna kill you,'" favor and awarded him custody of Ifyour curiosity now is piqued of transportation to Chicago. Once wrote Royko. He further described the goat for life. As a result ofthe and you want to check out the Billy there, subways, rapid transit trains,Sianis in another column,"... a fine publicity ofthe case the tavern's Goat, you'll have to look hard. The buses, taxi cabs, and your own two figure ofa man, He is only five­gross earnings reportedly quad­tavern is literally under Michigan feet are the best ways to get around 
seven, but he has a 19-inch neck rupled. Sianis claimed the goat to be Avenue, with tlle Tribune Tower to the town. and can lift a barstool by one rung his good luck charm. Hence, he the east and the Sun-Times Building 
The South Shore Railroad station with his teeth." changed the bar's name, grew a to the west. No wonder that for so is located at 2702 W. WashingtonFor those that want a more visual goatee and adopted the name long its clientele consisted mostly Ave., South Bend and has trains image ofSianis, all they have to do is "Billygoat." ofreporters, photographers, copy 
departing for Chicago at times 
flip on the television set and watch clerks and columnists. Once you convenient for most students' 
John Belushi recreate the Greek In 1945, the last time the Cubs find it, and you have soaked up all weekend or vacation plans. (For a restauranteur on re-runs of 
won a penant, Billygoat bought two the Billy Goat history you can in complete schedule see the chart on "Saturday Night Live." Don Novello, 
tickets for a World Series game one day, you probably will be this page.) The one-way fare is onlyformerly an advertising copywriter between the Cubs and who else but thirsty and hungry. S7, S 14 round trip. Two hours and who frequented the tavern, wrote 
the Detroit Tigers, one for himself five minutes after the train pulls out the skit for "Saturday Night" in 
and one for his goat, Murphy. Alas, A well-stocked bar can satisfy of the South Bend station it will 1978. The skit's originator is more the ushers refused to admit the goat your first need. And after waiting in arrive in Chicago. The train has readily recognized as Father Guido 
into the park because ofMurphy's line (Billy Goat's operates like a fast stops within walking distance ofSarducci. 
especial odor. Storming out, Sianis food restaurant), Sam Sianis and his Soldier Field, McCormick Place and placed a hex on the Cubs. As the grill chefs can take care of your the Museum ofScience and Indus­record books show, the Cubs lost hunger. Although the tavern's menu try. The South Shore makes its final the Series. Consequently, Sianis sent ranges from steak to a ham and stop at the Randolph Street Station. 
P.K. Wrigley, the team's owner a cheese sandwich, you are probably Once you've blown into the telegram: "Who sti!lks now?" better off ordering a beer, and Windy City, the Chicago Transit cheeps. And the cheezborgers, Authority provides bus routes that possibly the best in the city. twist around the city, from Old Town to Grant Park, from the Gold Coast to Union Station. For the basic fare of90 cents the CTAcan take you to or at least near your 
destiny. Ifyou're from the East and just 
• 

It ts not qutte as recognizable as tbe New York Skyline, but tbe SecondCitydoeshavean'tmpresstveproftle. Tbtsviewoftbe Windy City was taken from tbe Oak Street Beach. 

Tbe Conseroatory, an oasis tnltncolnPark,providesa refugefrom the City even whe. found on the mall In front oftbe Conservatory. 
Leave your worries behind -alon~ 
can't break the subway habit, you do not have to feel out ofplace iri Chi· Town. For the same cost as the bus, you can trade the bustle ofthe street by going down under. 
But what would a trip to Chicago be without a ride on the nationally renowned "EI," the elevated train, for those not well versed in trans­portation lingo. "The Loop" encom­passes the downtown area and besides being another 90-cents transportation alternative, it pro­vides an approximately 20-minute tour ofthe State Street shopping area, the financial district and even the Sears Tower. 
Ifyou have a little more money to expend and do not want to be 


Tuesday, November 20, 1984 -page 8-9 


Shopping: front bargain shops to the 'Magnificent Mile' 
W 
ith Christmas approaching, gift-hunting is an excellent excuse for a roadtrip to Chicago. Whatever you're looking for, you'll find it there. There are two major shopping districts in Chicago: the State Street Mall and North Michigan Avenue. The State Street Mall, the largest outdoor mall in the world, takes up seven blocks in the heart ofthe Chicago Loop. The more traditional area for Chicago shopping, the mall includes a number of major depart­ment stores as well as hundreds of smaller speciality shops. State Street is closed to all traffic, except city buses, allowing shop­pers to easily criss-cross the street between stores and enjoy the elabo­rate window displays. During the holiday shopping season, keep an eye open for the festive Christmas decorations that dress up the mall. Any shopping expedition to the State Street Mall must include a visit to the most famous Chicago depart­ment store, the downtown Marshall Field and Co. store. Speciality items from all over the world are available in Marshall Field's varied depart­ments. Visitors from Notre Dame may want to take a look up at that store's Tiffany mosaic dome while inside. Walking along State Street, holiday shoppers will want to stop in at a number ofother famous department stores, including Wiebolt's; Carson Pierie Scott and Montgomery Ward. State street also offers a variety ofspeciality shops, record shops and cookie factories to attract shoppers. One block west ofState Street is Wabash Avenue, known for it's book, jewelry, leather and shoe stores. Many stores on Wabash run special sales throughout the year, so keep an eye out for bargains. 
A short walk northeast ofthe 
Loop will take shoppers to North 
Michigan A venue, a posh shopping 
district more commonly known as 
"Magnificent Mile." Some of the 
world's finest stores are along this 
shopping strip that starts at the 
Chicago River and extends north to 
Oak Street. 
Neiman-Marcus, I. Magnin, Bur­berry's, Sak's Fifth Avenue and Tiffany's are just a few ofthe "magnificent" stores you can browse in on the Mile. 
No shopping trip on North State Street would be complete without a visit to Water Tower Place, a seven­story atrium shopping mall. Consid­ered to be one of Chicago's most "in" shopping locations, Water Tower Place features Marshall Field's and Lord and Taylor as the anchor department stores. 
Sprinkled throughout the seven floors of Water Tower Place are a variety of top-flight clothing, jewelry, leather, shoe and sporting goods shops. Women's clothing stores are especially numerous. 
For new visitors to the city, a trip up to "Accent Chicago" on the seventh floor is a must. This store contains every kind of Windy City memorabilia you could possible ask for. 
Book lovers should set a few hours aside to browse through Kroch's and Bretano's on the fourth level and Rizzoli International 
Bookstore and Gallery on the third 
level. 
Ifshopping awakens your appe­tite, Water Tower Place comes equipped with a restaurant on each level, and a number ofspecialty food stores (fudge, cookies, English chocolate) dot the mall. 
Even ifyou can't afford to be as extravagent as the clientele the Magificent Mile attracts, shopping on North Michigan A venue is an adventure. And you never know when you'll stumble across an affordable bargain! 
While State Street and Michigan Avenue are the largest and most popular shopping areas, a number 
ofsmaller quaint shopping districts 
dot the city. 
Nearby Oak Street will charm you with its brownstones that have been converted to boutiques carry­ing the latest fashions from Paris and Milan and art galleries featuring impressive art collections. 
A quick cab ride west will bring you to north Wells Street, where shoppers will be tempted to bargain with antique dealers for unusual collectibles in a refreshing shop­ping setting. 
Ashopping area unknown to many is Off-Center, 300 West Grand Ave., five minutes from Wells Street. Off-Center Shopping Mall was once a spaghetti factory and has been converted into a six-story enclosed mall, featuring more than 20 specialty shops. Oriental rugs, designer fashions, furniture and accessories are all available, at reduced prices. • 
Untiring shoppers may decide to take a ride up to New Town, which caters to the young trendy set with a variety ofart and poster shops, used book stores, video stores and thrift shops. In the heart of New Town is The Century City Centre, at 2828 N. Clark. The Centre is seven levels of shops located in a converted former movie theatre. 
Downtown Chicago 
Oak St. 
D 
I IDDDC!DDODI ~ L_JDDDHHDDODDD
DOD Chestnut DOD~ D DOOIPeJtJDOlDD D 
ooo~oon~o o 1 
D 
DOD~rior.DDCill II DDDLH~rDDDritJDDl DDDOrDDDODDDDI 
~IDDDr:lDDDOODDDr \ DDODQODDODDDDL 1 DDDDC1DDDODDDDI I DDDDCIDDDODDDI I 0 DDDDODDO~~~~==:..::;;;;;;;::_~­
~-: ~DDDDClODDll'.r-'----....______J 
~~~~~~,~~~~~~
~~flflDDDDDOO 0[]{(0 DDD~~~~(!]~OD======~
0 DIDI DDL'w~n ~ DCM DDD!rk'!nlDDD ~ 
Dnrrm oon~ Ijll'fs10 (f)
L...lU\Y L-=•Monroe·o-~~ _g 


DOl QDC~.I.liJJ~o~



00«11 ~8§80000~ 
0[]})11 DODQDf.WllllDDD 
DD~~~DOcQJ]JQUOD~ 1 oo~~DDDf.!UODDDD
DLJliUJOIJ[~~~~ BB DI %~ 10 D~D~BB Dl ID~ ~ ~D~oon' I ID~BB~ 

Points of Interest 
...­


1. 
John Hancock Center 

2. 
Tribune Tower 

3. 
Wrigley Building 

4. 
Sun Times 


5. 
Marshall Field 


6. 
Cultural Center 

7. 
Picasso Sculpture 

8. 
Palmer House 

9. 
Art Institute 



10. Sears Tower 

---~----­

( 
• 

Sports Briefs 
~~0 f~"
~~lcMn will discuss the curre~t bowl situation when it a1rs to ght at 9 p.m. on WVFI-AM 64. jom host Chuck Freeby with your questions and comments about the current collegiate bowl situation by calling 239-6400. -Tbe Observer 
lhe Notte Dame Rowing Club will be meeting today from 7 to 8 p.m. in the LaFortune little Theatre. All money and sponsor sheets from the ergothon will be due then. For more information, call Patti at 283-4096. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC NoviceWomen's Rowing 
Club will be meeting tonight at 8 in LaFortune. -The Observer 
Interhall basketball officials will be meeting 
tonight at 5 in the football auditmium at the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend. -Tbe Observer 
A -weimttraining course is being sponsored by NVA ilie-;16a~giving. The course will be run by Notre Dame strength and conditioning coach Gary W eil. There will be two meetings: Nov. 27 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC and Nov. 29 at 7 p.m. in the varsity weight room at the ACC. A $2 fee will be charged at the door, but participants must preregister at the NVA office by Monday, Nov. 26.-The Observer 
Obsetver Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer 
Classifieds 
Tuesday, November 20, 1984-page 10 
Bowl picture beginning to shape up as colleges head into home stretch 
Associated Press 
The Orange Bowl's hopes of pro­viding this year's national collegiate football champion have been dimmed but not doused, as Brigham Young, the only remaining major un­defeated team, looks for an op­ponent in its Holiday Bowl. 
Orange Bowl officials had hoped for a dream matchup of No. 1 Ne­braska against No. 2 South Carolina. But both teams lost Saturday and are expected to end up in other bowls. 
Nebraska's 17· 7 loss to Big Eight rival Oklahoma all but closed the Cornhuskers out of a Jan. 1 trip to the Orange Bowl. The Orange Bowl's Big Eight representative will be the winner of Saturday's Oklahoma-Oklahoma State game, unless it ends in a tie. Then Nebraska will go. 
Although bowl invitations cannot be officially announced until Satur­day, former No. 1 team Washington, co-champion of the Pac 10 Confer­ence with Southern California, reportedly has accepted an invita­tion to face the Big Eight winner in the Orange Bowl. 
Southern Cal will go to the Rose Bowl against Ohio State, which defeated Michigan, 21-6, last Satur­day to win the Big Ten Conference title. 
The national championship, however, could be decided in the Holiday Bowl Dec. 21 at San Diego where undefeated Brigham Young, champion of the Western Athletic Conference, meets an undecided opponent. Either Auburn or Geor­gia, both ofthe Southeastern Confer­ence, could provide the opposition, and Michigan also has been men· tioned. 
The rest ofthe bowls shape up like this: 
-Cotton Bowl (Jan. 1, Dallas): Bos­ton College will face the winner of the Southwest Conference, most likely Texas, in this bowl. 
-Sugar Bowl (Jan. 1, New Or­leans): An SEC hearing today will help dear up the picture in this bowl. Florida ostensibly is the SEC champion, and should go to the Sugar Bowl, but the Gators were put on probation by the NCAA. The SEC executive Committee could send the Gators to the Sugar Bowl anyway, where their opponent probably will be Nebraska. IfFlorida docs not go, Auburn could go with a victory next week over Alabama. If Auburn loses, Louisiana State would go. 
-Fiesta Bowl (Jan. 1, Tempe, Ariz.): UCLA, an upset winner over Southern Cal last Saturday, has been invited to play Miami, Fla. 
-Peach Bowl (Dec. 31, Atlanta): The teams aren't set, but it could be Virginia against Purdue. 
-Bluebonnet Bowl (Dec. 31, Houston): West Virginia reportedly has been invited to face Texas Chris· tian, assuming Texas keeps TCU out of the Cotton Bowl. If West Virginia doesn't go, it could be Air Force. 
-Hall of Fame Bowl (Dec. 29, Bir­mingham, Ala.): The probable lineup is Army against Wisconsin. If Army doesn't go, it could be Kentucky. 
-Aloha Bowl (Dec. 29, Honolulu): Southern Methodist most likely is one of the teams, and the Mustangs have indicated they'd accept an invi­tation. The other team apparently still is undecided. It could be Notre Dame, if the Irish beat Southern Cal Saturday, or Hawaii, ifthey don't. 
-Gator Bowl (Dec. 28, Jackson­ville, Fla.): South Carolina's loss to Navy last Saturday sends the Gamecocks to jacksonville against 
the  loser  of  the  Oklahoma­ 
Oklahoma State game.  
-Uberty  Bowl (Dec.  27,  

Memphis): The SEC's decision on Florida has affected this bowl, too. Arkansas appears set, but the op­ponent could be either Auburn· or LSU, if LSU doesn't go to the Sugar Bowl. 
Finals 

continuedfrom page 16 
The Irish, who had not appeared in the NCAA Championships since 1966, had their best season ever un­der Piane's control. They began the season with a bang, winning con· vincingly over four opponents in a meet held at Notre Dame. The Irish then proceeded to capture the team titles in the National Catholic Meet, the Notre Dame Invitational, the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet, and the Midwestern City Conference Championships. 
Notre Dame then entered the NCAA District IV Qualifying Meet, where they finished in fourth place to qualify for the NCAA'~ for the first time since Piane took over as coach in 1975. 
The Irish ended the season with the disappointing finish in the NCAA Championships, but overall the season was filled with many positive moments and this team must be con­sidered one ofthe best in Irish cross­country history. 
!be Ohsen•er :'-Jotn: Dame: office. hKatnl on the._· third floor of LaFortune: Studc._·nt Cc:ntt:r. accc:pt!> dassifinl adYntising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Mondav through Friday~ The Obsen•er Saini ;\lary's oftll:c:. lo(.:atnl on the._· third tloor of llaggar Collc:gr Cc:ntc:r. an·c:pts dassifit:ds from 12:50 p.m. umil :\p.m...\ton­day though Friday. Deadline: for next-day classifieds b :\ p.m. All das!>ifieds must ht· prepaid, c:ithc:r in pc:rson or hy maiL { harge i~ l 0 l.Tnh pn tin: c._·harac· tc:r!> c:r dav. 
LOST: GOlD CHARM BRACELET, FISH HEADS, FISH HEADS, ROLLY· FILM/DISCUSSION on SUICIDE: How to MARIANA KARAM: HAPPY BIRTHDAY THURS NITE. REWARD OFFEREDII POLLY FISH HEADS, EAT THEM UP, recognize & deal with potential in others YOU MARINE YOU! LOVE, L YNDY. NOTICES CALL 1822. FOR SALE YUM. Counseling & Psych Serv Rm. 300 Tues­"21", THAT WORKS FOR YOU! day 11/27 730 pm Dr. J Mcintosh, WHOEVER MISTOOK MY ""LONDON Dear Tiger Woman, I just wrote this to speaker Roses can tum brown Violets aren·t al­FOR SALE: 1963 Fender Musicmaster
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 Foo·· RAINCOAT FOR THEIRS FRIDAY say I love you. And only you.l watch your ways blue But whenever we·re down We 
electric guitar. Excellent condition. $200
MORNING AT THE SOUTH CAFE, I'D every move. You're a goddess. And then always think of you. HAPPY 18th or best oHer. C8112651.
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. LIKE MINE BACK. NO QUESTIONS some. No, you"re a tigress~ Oh, To the Chief Observerlte: BIRTHDAY, ANGIE (you woman!) The ASKED. RETURN TO THE SOUTH yeeeeessssss! Untamed, raw animal Happy 21st from all of us who look up to Gang Loves You!!! Heather, Amy, Niki, EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 CAFE BASEMENT OFFICE-PLEASE. emotion! That is what I feel when I scope you for "spiritual" guidance. (Throw that Emma, Mo. Mary. Mary, Suzie, and 
FOR SALE: you in the dining haiL You are the woman fakeiD away!)(Or at the very least. give it Nancy!! (tee hee) 
'72Skyl8rk
T'Y'PING AVAILABLE 287-4082. LOOKOUT' I COULD BE THE DRIVER of my dreams. to Jeff Blumb.)
Body: Poor Engine: Good
BEHIND YOU and my purse containing RRRRROOOOOOOOAAAAMR­Mr. D"s T-Day Party! Drink specials, O&n­
$500 or bMt otter
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117 my glasses and contacs '"disappeared·· RRRRRRRR!!! XXXXOOOOO Love, cing. tQ-3 Tuesday night,Nov.20. Come Jflff 288-2042
from Puhe's Halloween party~ Please heMp Tiger Man dance the night away' PRO-TYPE Over 14 yra. ol experience. a legally blind student by contacting me as Computerized service. Dissertations, law to its whereabouts--284-5074. Elizabeth C. M. Stacy-Face, How about another 20 papers, student papers 277-5833. We would like to take this opportunity months, dawtin"? Love. Tim 
To Julie Novak, Gassie Perrone and Mic­
to wish the o"icial BlldlenCS. Bllbea very
TO WHOEVER TOOK MY COAT FROM hele Williams of SMC: Remember the
happy birthday. Have a great Thanksgiv­KRUEGERS-Thanks for coming. Looking 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL THE 2-7 PARTY AT EAST MARION SYR you skipped out on a few weeks
PERSONALS ing too. You are going accumulate some forward to a super Thanksgiving.
MRS~ COKER, 233-7009 STREET ON FRIDAAY NIGHT: PLEASE ago? You'll be REAL sorry--you cr088ed 

big phone bills yelling switch over the 
RETURN IT!! I DON"T WANT TO the wrong folks. Watch lor details ... 
phone from Wsshington 
T'Y'PING FREEZE ALL WINTER LONG. I AM OF· PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234·

Jackie Boggs FERING A REWARD FOR IT'S RETURN BUBBLES • HOW DID YOU GET THE
0363. 24 hour holtine/free pregnancy test PEG, MARYA, AMF • Thanks for being684-8793 TO MY POSESSION, NO QUESTIONS NAME ""BUBBLES"" ? 
available. WOMEN"S CARE CENTER understanding, thanks for caring. thanksASKED. ITS A STRIPED ABOVE THE LEAVE TESS BABY ALONE!!! for not passing judgement. Have a great
........................................ 

KNEE WOOL COAT, SIZE 9. CALL Attention men'Earn $$$.My name is Gina
I NEED A AIDE to St. Louis for Thanksgiv­T-day'
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES NORMAAT 28081F YOU CAN HELP ME. Garcia, and I'm looking for a Freshman

ing. WrM pay the usual. Gall Maureen at luv,277-41045 Formal date.Total nerds n3ed only ap­
1333.

PICKUP AND DEUVERY Pam is a goddess' -S 
ply.Call5183. LOST A BLACK LEATHER RUGBY 
Wllateverhappened to the Trammps? 
Have a nice Thanksgiving break -Third •······················· ........ . 
Ia it true you can buy jeeps tor $44 through JACKET WITH A WALLET ON SENIOR Happy Birthday Betsy Moran .I'll miss you! 

floor Walsh and the "Monday Night Dinner D. BAINBRIDGE, K. BECKER, D.
the U.S. government? Get the facts today' SUICIDE STOMP FRIDAY, NOV 16. Love,Kelly
Wllateverhappened f!> Greg Kosse? Club'. BENDER, J. BLAKEY, C. BOYLE,Call1-312-742-1142 ext. 7316. 
PLEASE CAUJOHN AT 234-7412. 

me THOM. BRADLEY, E. CARROl, P. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER 6 UQUOR, DEETER, K. HEFT, K. HUMM, C. Do you love Kinko the Oown??? Well, he LOST: One ycMiow t-shirt at Rock on CARRY OUT 'nL3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE REYNOLDS, BYRON STEVENS • 
............................ ········· ....................... . Friday afternoon a couple ol weeks ago: L.J.(F.)K, Congrats ""Kelley Staar" can Iloves YOU. REALLY, REEEAAALU.Y. 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. We j)llrtled wtth the Subway! Please see Shirley at THE OBSERVER 
have the first copy of your novei?Go
Show your aHection by joining the KINKO has 'Endangered Feces· on front and "2' 
................................. ······················· ..... . I want to have your children~ Moon now~ office. 
FAN CLUB T -Q-0-A-Y!! Mail $3.95 plus on back. Great sentimental value. If found IRISH Beat Trojar.s Ariz. here we
RIDERS NEEDED TO CLEVELAND, PA syslem. The heck with Mary! Bob from 
$1.00 p&h to: KINKO THE CLOWN FAN or borrowed please call Animal at 3336. PITISBURGH, DC AND CHARLOTIES­come!Have a great T-Day!!Love
Boston. The Ramada or Days Inn? Both? 
ya.Peppermlnt""PW"'Patty
CLUB, c/o Goobs, UNO. Really, reeeal­VIUE, VA. LVG. WED, 5 PM, RET. SUN. DEAR F.O.C~ LIGHTWEIGHTS: WHEN

Anack her. Fossils. How much was thatlllyl!!!! 
suREsHor.35M.M cAM~R"A-i:os:r·6N CALL JOAN 233-9210 DAYS, 233-2549 sweater? Good, you made it home. Good ARE YOU GUYS GOING TO LEARN Will the Person who took my blue DOLE THE FIELD AFTER THE PENN ST. VIC­
NITES. time~ HOW TO DRINK? IF YOU WERE REAL bag fr001 Madeleva on Friday pleaseHappy birthday to you, MEN, YOU WOULDN'T BLOW CHUNKSTORY PLEASE HELP ME SEE MY OCT. 
leave it at Holy Cross Desk(SMC).It con­Happy birthday to you, AT THE CCE. IN YOUR SINKS, ANDBREAK PHOTOS ON THE FILM.CALL 
tains allot my notes. PLEASE!!-4411.
Happy birthday dear S...y, ANYTIME SMC-5165 OR -5256! BETTY'S UNDER Help send a fine upstanding young man PASS OUT BY THE LAKES. OVER Happy birthday to you, 
.......... ·-··········· ......... 
THANKS' YOU CAN TELL home for Thanksgiving. Call Ray at 2066 BREAK WHY DON'T YOU GUYS 
A WORD to the WISEIKATHY(K·
BECAUSE SHE GOT OUT THE If you are going to the WASHINGTON PRACTICE YOUR DRINKING. YOU 
RN)KNYCH is celebrating her 20th b-day I FOUND A NICE RING AT THE BARS 
CHOCOLATE CHIPS D.C./ MARYLAND area~ GUYS SHOULD BE PRETTY EMBAR­(which 1s Nov.24) today' Make herEXPERIENCED TYPIST WIU DO RASSED THAT YOU ALL HAVE WOR­THURS. 11/15. CALL ALAN AT3267 TO BLOOD PRESSURE RISE and wish herT'Y'PING. CAU 287-5162. 
Need ride to WASHINGTON SHIPPED THE PORCELAIN GOD AND IIDENTIFY. 
well with a big 8-day Kiss'C811 her atD.C./MARYLAND area. can Ray 2066. HAVENT. PADGE 
SMC-4088 before she makes you STICK ····· .. ················ ·································· 
OUT YOUR TONGUE AND SAY••.AH! 
BETTYIll AMPLE BIRTHDAY TO YOU DECENT WHATS COME OVER YOU???? Tim: too bad about the weekend. Maybe BIRTHDAY TO YOU BEARABLE
LOST/FOUND I WANTED 
your posterior got in the way. Love, open­BIRTHDAY JULIE SCHUESSLER hearted trust club of the Greater South GENERIC BIRTHDAY TO YOU! To FARLEY"S FINEST: Thanks for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. -"SPONSORED'" BY T.B. ROGET
Bend Area~ P~S~ see you at the head proving that you can S1ill have FUN and be LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH MIS­Bill! This is in remembrance of the per­shrinker dub meeting this week. NO~ 1!! 1/we knew you all are the SOURI 10. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI OVER sonals at the beginning. we·ve come a best.thanks for proving it. Have GREAT SAT. PLEASE CONTACT 3065~ BREAK. CAN LEAVE WEDNESDAY. long way baby' Keep that fire lit. Have a THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 22, 1964 LAURA RAAB: Good luck with the Co­breaks and be ready to PARTY HEAVILY 
WILL SHARE USUAL CAll DAN AT relaxing Thanksgiving Love ·o your life GREENSBURG, PA. FISH HOUSE Ree B-Ball1! Digger will be at tl)e neKt on the 8th!!-Love ""HOPELESS"' 
LOST: 2275 -PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!! P.S. My and. hasn't run out yet! PUNCH FISH HOUSE PUNCH THE game watching so don"t break any more One pair ol ycMiow sweat pants. 20TH. ANNIVERSARY CELEBRA­
backboards~ WHITEY. NOTRE DAME printed on both legs HELPII RIDERS NEEDED TO QUOTE OF THE WEEK: TION!!! LoetatRock PHILAJSOUTH JERSIEY AREAII ··A man is more interested in a woman on t1/13 about 5:30pm. LEAVING ON TUES. 11/20 AND RE­who is interested in him, ADA DADA Twisled Sister says: "What do you wanna Sue du Lac: ·I'm glad you'rw back P1eue call Steve at 277-8491 if found. TURNING ON SUN. 11/25. CALL JEFF than he is in one W1th beautiful legs." do with your life?' Keenan 3-West says "I 3851 SNOW, DAMMIT' WANNA ROCK!!!" 
The Observer 

The Obscrvcr/FUc Photo 

junior Trena Keys will key the charge when national power­hottse Tennessee playshost to the Irish this Saturday. The Lady Vol· unteers are coached byPatHead Summitt, whoguided the Olympic women's basketball team to a gold medal this summer and took the Lady Vols to the NCAA Finals last spring. Notre Dame will beat home next Monday againstPurdue at 7 p.m. in tbeACC. Mike Sul­livanpreviews the women's season on page 16. 
FILMI DISCUSSION 
SUICIDE: How to recognize and deal with suicide potential in others. 
Counseling and Psychological Services Center, Rm. 300 Tuesday, Nov, 27 at 7:30pm. 
Sponsored by: 
Counseling and Psychological Services Center 
Speaker /Discussion leader: 
Dr. John Mcintosh Psychologist, IUSB 

After yourlast exam, what toughquestions will you stillbe facing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 1219) 283-6385 
Tuesday, November 20, 1984 -page 11 Robison captures Student category 
Turkey Trot runs despite weather 
By COLLEEN MACISZEWSKI 
Sports Writer 
While yesterday afternoon's sub­freezing temperatures and snow flurries were probably enough to discourage the average runner, it could not stop the 163 participants in Saint Mary's fourth annual Turkey Trot. 
The three-mile run, which is or­ganized by Tim Dillon, assistant director of athletics and recreation, is offered by Saint Mary's on the Monday preceding Thanksgiving in an effort to promote community spirit. 
According to Dillon, the idea be· hind the Trot was to get the Saint Mary's community to participate in a fun event'while increasing its aware­ness ofathletics at the college. 
Competition was open to walkers, as well as runners, and 36 of the par­ticipants opted for a more leisurely pace and a shorter one and one-half mile course. 
Fifth-year student Uz Robison captured the student category title with an 18:56 performance, and she was followed closely by freshmen Monique LeMieux and Kirsten Ham­mantree, rounding out the top three places respectively. 
In the Female Staff, Faculty, Ad· ministration category, Mary Con­nolly earned the top spot with a 
19:52 time. Finishing a dose second was Gail Mandel, andjo-Ann Phillips dosed out the place finishers at third. 
Peter Smith, winner of the Male Staff, Faculty, Administration cate· gory, turned in the fastest overall time with a 17:12 clocking. Finish­ing second and third in this class were Bob Foldesi and Gene Nuccio respectively. 
Mets' Gooden takes NL Rookie of the Year honors, Phillies' Juan Samuel runner-up 
Assodated Press 
NEW YORK · Dwight Gooden of the New York ·Mets, who blazed a strikeout trail during the 1984 season that erased the names of Herb Score and Sam McDowell from the record books, was named Na­tional League Rookie ofthe Year yes­terday. 
Gooden's selection by the Baseball Writers' Association of America gave the Mets the league's rookie selection for the second straight season. Right-fielder Darryl Strawberry was the 1983 NL rookie. 
Gooden received all but one of the first-place votes, totaled 118 points, and was the only player men· tioned on all 24 ballots. Philadelphia second baseman juan Samuel finished second with 62 points and Los Angeles pitcher Orel Hershiser was third with 1 5 points. 
Also receiving votes were San 
Women 
. 

continuedfrom page 16 
in four seasons at Notre Dame. "Still, you can't discount Tennessee just because their players are young. You have to remember that they're all blue-chippers. They may be a little inexperienced, but they are very talented. 
"I just hope that, at this early stage in the season, our experience will be enough to overcome their talent." 
Indeed, Summitt did pick up one of the best recruiting classes in the country to go along with a nucleus of talented players who, although not piling up impressive statistics, were able to gain a lot of playing time behind some ofthe best players in the country. In fact, despite the huge graduation losses, UT is ranked 14th in the pre-season Associated 
Press poll and 12th in the Street & Smith poll. Until some of the freshmen gain 
, some experience, though, the Lady Vols will rely on their strong guard positions. Collins, who averaged over 1 0 points and four rebounds a game last season, will be joined by 5·6 junior Pam Marr who was the first guard off the bench last year. The two veterans will be joined by Dawn Marsh, one of the top high school point guards in the nation last year. The front court sustained the heaviest losses, but sophomores Amy Gamble, Valerie Freeman and Usa Webb have experience to fill 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetimel 
Francisco outfielder Dan Gladden (9), New York pitcher Ron Darling ( 3 ), San Diego outfielder Carmela Martinez ( 2 ), Philadelphia out· fielder jeff Stone ( I ) and St. Louis third baseman Terry Pendleton ( 1). 
The only voter who had Samuel ahead of Gooden on his ballot was Dave Nightingale, national corre­spondent of theSporting News. 
Gooden, who finished second to Rick Sutcliffe ofthe Chicago Cubs in the NL Cy Young voting, struck out 276 batters in 218 innings for the Mets, breaking the rookie record of 245 set in 1955 by Score of the Cleveland Indians. That mark fell on Sept. 12 when Gooden struck out 16 batters, three short of the major league record for one game, against Pittsburgh. 
Gooden, who turned 20 last Friday, was the youngest player in the league last season and is the youngest player ever to win the 
the positions. Freshman jennifer Tuggle, a 6-3 high school all­American, should also help out right away.· 
The Irish will be trying to avenge last year's 7I-56loss to the Vols, and will be looking for 6-0 junior Trena Keys to lead the charge. Keys averaged just over nine points per game last year from the forward po­sition, but will be playing more of a swing position this year. 
"I don't like labeling a player as a guard or a forward," says DiStanis· lao. "After all, what's a guard and what's a forward? Trena is very com· fortable with the situation the way we have it now. I hope she wiU be a factor on both offense and defense, but we can't win with just one player." 
In fact, DiStanislao will probably be playing eight or nine players quite a bit early in the season. Besides the seniors, juniors Lynn Eb­benand Denise Basford should make major contributions, as should sop­homores Vonnie Thompson and Lavetta Willis and 6-2 freshman Sandy Botham. 
"What we'd like to see is the seniors play, because they have had the most time to develop their tal­ents, but what we're looking for primarily is the productiveness of each player," explains DiStanislao. "These next two games are going to be important. They're going to be a 
test to see how actually productive we'll be when we're put to test by another team." 
rookie award. 
He also broke the major league record for strikeout ratio, fanning an average of 11.39 batters per nine in· nings. The old record was 1 0. 71 by Cleveland's McDowell in 1965. 
Gooden's earned run average of 
2.60 was second in the league only to the 2.40 posted by Alejandro Pena ofthe Los Angeles Dodgers. Gooden had a record of 17-9, winning seven straight starts from Aug. 11 to Sept. 
12. The streak ofvictories included a 10-0 one-hitter against the Cubs Sept. 7. 
Gooden spent only three years in the minors before joining the Mets from their Class A farm club at lynchburg, and he was selected to the National League All-Star team in his first season. He pitched two in­nings and struck out three batters in succession · Lance Parrish and Chet Lemon of Detroit and rookie Alvin Davis ofSeattle. 
Notre Dame will also play its first home game ofthe season next Mon­day when Purdue visits the ACC. The Irish could find themselves in an awkward position, however, be­cause there is a good chance that Purdue will have more fans at the game. 
The reason is that Purdue's fresh­man guard Sharon Versyp, Indiana's "Miss Basketball" last year and a graduate of Mishiwaka High School. Versyp averaged 24 points a game last year and is expected to produce most of the scoring punch for the building Boilermakers. 
Versyp has a lot of work on her hands, though. Last year's Lady Boilers finished 5· 2 3 ( 1·1 7 in the Big Ten) under Head Coach Ruth Jones. Four starters return from that team, including junior point guard Erin Doelling who scored just under I 0 points a game last season. She should team with Versyp and senior Amy Porritt to form a solid backcourt which should pick up slack from a relatively inexperienced front line. 
The Purdue game begins at 7 p.m., a starting time that is one half-hour earlier than in previous years. 
Men 
continuedfrom page 16 
IRISH ITEMS -Irish coach Digger Phelps found out on Sunday that Mi· chael Smith, a 6-3 guard from South Bend's LaSalle High School, plans to accept Notre Dame's offer of a bas· ketball scholarship next year. "Michael is a guard who will com­plement what we now have in the backcourt," said Phelps. "Losing Danny Duff, David Rivers will be our only other returning point guard next season. Michael can handle that, and I really like him as a press player because of his quickness." ... Phelps is still awaiting word from a big man, who would use the last of four available scholarships next year with Barry Spencer and Duff graduating. 


Ken Barlow wtll be in the starting lineup wben the Irish face the jaspers ofManhattan College this Sunday night at the ACC. Notre Dame looks to improve its series lead to 7-1, though the jaspers havea considerable talent ill 6-7forward Tim Cain.]elfBlumb bas details onpage 16. 
Ali answers questions about health problems 
. Tuesday, November 20, 1984 -page 12 ND hockey team drops two games to College of St. Thomas, 10-3, 7-6 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 

ST. PAUL, Minn. · As the level of 
competition increases, the Notre 
Dame hockey team is finding out 
just how important it is to be able to 
put together a strong performance 
at both ends of the ice. 

This weekend it twice fell victim 
to the quick, balanced College of St. 
Thomas attack by scores of 1 0-3 and 
7-6. 

Despite the fact that the Irish 
were outshot 94-4 7 and somewhat 
outplayed through both games, 
things were not as bad as they might 
outwardly appear. Namely, Notre 
Dame showed that it is not a team 
that gives up in the wake of a sound 
defeat. The Irish showed gradual im· 
provement each night, but just 
couldn't overcome the Tummies. 
"I was extremely pleased with our 
kids this weekend," said Head Coach . Lefty Smith. "After Friday night's game, they could have just given up. But they went out and played with a lot ofheart. It's not always easy to be happy after two losses, but I was real 
proud of all of them. It was a real 
learning experience that we're now 
going to have to build on." 

Notre Dame trailed, 6-0, on Friday 
before Steve Ely, Tim Reilly and co­
captain Brent Chapman brought the 
Irish to life with their three tallies in 
the second period. 

Unfortunately, St. Thomas was not 
going to let down and for the rest of 
the game, Notre Dame was not able 
to regroup enough to put any more 
goals on the scoreboard. 

The Tummies had grabbed a 
quick 3·0 lead after the opening per­
iod on goals by Bob Kron, Steve Ol­
son and Tom Diedrich's first ofthree 
for the night. Irish goalie AI 
Haverkamp did not receive much 
support in that first period. St. 
Thomas showered him with 20 
shots compared to the five that the 
Tummies Mike Tubbs had to stop at 
the other end. 

Diedrich's second goal late in the second period made it 7·3. St. Thomas then sealed away the vic­tory with three scores in the final period. Diedrich completed his hat trick at 3:52. Tom Palkowski then made it 9·3 just 34 seconds later. Mike Lebens completed the Tommie's barrage with a goal in the last five minutes. 1 
Saturday night it was a different story. Notre Dame looked like a dif­
. ferent team. Still showing difficulty adapting to the fast St. Thomas style of play, the Irish, however, played with more intensity and held the Tommies to just a 1-0 lead after the first period. Notre Dame stayed within one, trailing 4-3 after two pe­riods. The Irish really put it together in the final period scoring three more times, but not before they had surrendered three additional goals to St. Thomas. Notre Dame goaltender Tim Lukenda turned in an excellent per­formance despite allowing seven goals. He made 36 saves, many of which came at crucial times in the game. The Tommies made it 7-3 with their three goals in the first nine minutes of the third period and seemed on their way to another rout. Tom Mooney then picked up his first of two goals at 11:18 making it 7-4. Chapman's second goal of the night two minutes later pulled Notre Dame within two. Mooney con­nected again on a powerplay with 
2:30 to play and it looked like the Irish might pull it out. Lukenda was lifted for an extra attacker with slightly over a minute remaining, but the fired-up Notre Dame players couldn't slip another goal past Tommie netminder Chad Me Ken­ney, who finished the game with 21 saves. 
After Palkowski put St. Thomas up, 2-0, early in the second period, Notre Dame came on strong and scored three times to let the Tommies know that they weren't going to have it as easy as the night before. 
Chapman, Reilly and Mike McNeill tallied for the Irish to tie the score at 3·3. Nick Holmes' second goal of the game put St. Thomas back up, 4-3, with just 16 seconds left in the period. 
"We could have won those games," said Reilly. "We're a young team and it will just take time for everyone to get used to the better competition. We have a lot of fresh­man and even our veterans have been away from this kind ofplay for a season. We know what we have to do now. And I think we really will come around." 
The team's next action is tomor­row night at 7:30 when they play host to the University of Alaska­Anchorage. The Sea Wolves come to Notre Dame with a 3·7 record. Two of their losses came to Northern Arizona, a team the Irish may face in March at the Independent Invita­tional in Anchorage. 
"We're really excited about com­ing to Notre Dame," said Alaska assistant coach Klaus Nosslinger. "We've heard a lot about the school and we know Lefty Smith will have a good team." 
Notre Dame will also face Air Force on Friday and Saturday at the ACC. The Falcons were 1-2-1 going into last weekend's series with WCHA member Colorado College. Air Force split a series with Lake For­est, a future Irish opponent the weekend before. The Falcons won 6-1, and lost a 5· 3 decision. ' 
"All three games will be tough ones for us," said Smith. "We don't have a lot of time to prepare, but after this weekend's games, we know what we have to work on." 

Assodated Press 

NEW YORK · Muhammad Ali, whose health has replaced his ability as a topic of discussion, said yester· day, "If I had to pay for my press, it would cost S100 billion." 
The 42-year-old former three­time heavyweight champion basked in the attention of several boxing writers, photographers and televi­sion reporters at lunch at the Down­town Athletic Club, where he received an award. 
"You walk with me, and all traffic stops," said Ali, just back from a trip to Nigeria. "I'm more popular now than ever. I can't see my name dying." 
Ali was hospitalized for several days at Columbia Presbyterian Medi· cal Center here in late September, for what neurologist Dr. Stanley Fahn called Parkinson's syndrome. 
Did he think boxing is at the root ofhis physical problems? 
"Is it traceable to boxing; I don't know. So many people have it that don't box," said Ali, who looked trim in a dark business suit. But he opened his coat to reveal a paunch and said he weighed 240 pounds. 
"You're talking to me: how much damage do I have?" said Ali, who 
before  the  interview  session  was  
finished,  did  a  magic  trick  and  
several imitations.  

It was pointed out to Ali that he was barely audible at the start of the session. 
."1 w.asn·~ .tal.ki~g good enough," satd Al1, ratsmg h1s voice. "IS THIS BETTER?" 
After his hospitalization in Sep­tember, several physicians' groups called for the abolishment ofboxing. 
."Take motorcycle racing," said Al1..Suddenly he made the sound ofa ~acmg engine, punctuated by Crassssssh. They don't stop that." 
Ali, who started fighting as a pro in 1967, again was asked if he felt he had fought too long. He retired in 1978, but came back to be stopped by Larry Holmes in I 0 rounds in 1980 and outpointed by Trevor Ber­bick in 1981. 
"I tried to get the title a fourth time. Some astronauts died trying to get to the moon. " 

Don't Let summer 
FADE AWAY. •• 
Maintain that beautiful summertime tan all winter long with our UVA (Ultraviolet type A Light) SUNTAN BEDS -safer than the sun! 
8 
TANNING 
2500

SESSIONS 
Reg. 3995 
Daily 8-8; sat. 8-6 f9.~1 TANNINC sun. 10-s I I SESSION First VISit $5 Value 

~-------L------~---­
SUNTAN CENTERS 
LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE OSCEOLA BIG BEAR NOTRE SOUTH BEND OFFICE TOWN & COUNTRY DAME AIRPORT 5:JO A.M. 5:45A.M. 6:00A.M. 6:15A.M. ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE MIDWAY ART MARSHALL WATER TOWER AIRPORT INSTITUTE FIELD'S PLACE 1:15 A.M. 1:50 A.M. 9:00A.M. 9:15A.M. FROM DOWNTOWN CHICAGO LEAVE LEAVE ARRIVE MCDONALD'S MIDWAY SOUTH BEND 220 N. MICHIGAN AIRPORT AIRPORT 6:00P.M. 6:45P.M. 1:45 P.M. ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE NOTRE BIG BEAR OSCEOLA DAME TOWN & COUNTRY OFFICE 9:00P.M. 9:15P.M. 9:l0 P.M.  
Ride United Umo to Midway Airpon and Downtown Chicaao Same Day lltturn CALL YOUB TII.AVEL AGDT OB lOOTED UMO 674-6993  
10844 U.S. 20 (one and one·half miles east of Binersweet) Osc:rola, Indiana 46561  

The Observer Tuesday, November 20, 1984 -page 13 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
EHI 
EHI 
w L T Pet. PF PA 

w L T Pet. PF PA Miam1 11 1 
0 .917 388 198 

N.Y. Giants 7 5 0 .583 227 223 New England 
8 4 0 .667 302 262 

Washington 7 5 0 .583 295 224 N.Y. Jets 6 6 0 .500 263 258 Dallas 7 5 0 .583 213 223 Indianapolis 4 8 0 .333 190 321 StLouis 6 6 0 .500 315 269 Buffalo 1 11 .83
0 1n 325 Philadelphia 5 6 1 .458 215 234 Cenlr8lc.mr.l Pittsburgh 6 6 0 .500 279 236 Chicago 8 4 0 .667 240 192 Oncinnati 4 8 0 .333 208 266 Green Bay 5 7 0 .417 2n 236 aeveland 3 9 0 .250 159 224 Tampa Bay 4 8 0 .333 224 292 Houston 2 10 0 .167 171 336 Detroit 3 8 1 .292 219 288 
W•t Minnesota 3 9 0 .250 235 330 Denver 11 
1 0 .917 269 171
WMt 

Seattle 10 2 0 .833 332 176 x·San Francisco 11 1 0 .917 335 184 L.A. Raiders 
8 4 0 .667 271 221 LA. Rams 7 5 0 .583 235 227 San Diego 6 6 0 .500 316 296 New Orleans 6 6 0 .500 243 265 Kansas City 5 7 0 .417 195 255 Atlanta 3 9 0 .250 218 279 
Y•terda,-'a R•ulta 

)(· clincheo .,.,.,10 rarri pteyc" spot New Orleans 27, Pittsburgh 24 
Irish beat Loyola but fall to Xavier 
played Xavier only an hour and a half later, we were spent," said Head Coach Art Lambert. "Inexperienced people are going to be up and down, and that's what happened against Xavier. Jill Suglich was absolutely sensational against Loyola, but couldn't do much against Xavier." 
At the tournament, hitter Josie Maternowski and setter Mary McLaughlin were selected to the All· Conference squad for their fine play not only in the tournament, but during the season. 
Now the Irish take their 14-12 record on the road and travel to Mic­higan State to battle the Spartans in their final match ofthe season today. 
"The players want to win the last game," said Lambert.. "I think they believe they're playing better. I'd like to think they won't have a let­down after a loss in the conference tournament." 
Notre Dame wrestlers win Invitational 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
DOWAGIAC, Mich. -The Notre Dame wrestling team traveled here last Saturday with the goal of im­proving on its seventh-place finish a week ago at Michigan State. The Irish got more than they hoped for, walking away with the champion­ship of the Michiana Autumn Invita­tional held at Southwestern Michigan College. 
"It was an excellent team effort," said a delighted Fran McCann, who earned his first win as coach of the Irish. "We really pulled together as a team with a never-quit attitude. The team wanted to win this weekend worse than anybody else out there, and the guys weren't intimidated." 
No, the Irish certainly weren't in­timidated, because they were too busy intimidating the other teams. Notre Dame's domination of the middleweight classes, combined with a strong performance in the lightweight divisions, helped the Irish roll up I02.5 points. That was good enough to outdistance runner­up Triton, which finished with 70 points. Olivet limped in a distant third with 57.75 points. 
The Irish posted three first-place finishes, along with two seconds and a third in the weight classes between I SO and I77 pounds. Freshman Dan Carrigan started the blue-ribbon barrage with a victory at I 58 pounds, which was followed by Tom Ryan claiming the title in the 167­pound class. 
"Carrigan's win was paricularly impressive because he beat the Junior National collegiate cham­pion, so you know he beat a good wrestler," noted McCann. 
The Irish came up with a I·2 sweep at 177 pounds as junior John Krug earned a decision over senior teammate Phil Baty. While Notre Dame did not earn a title at 1SO pounds, the Irish finished well as Luke DiSabato finished second, while Kevin Stavely-O'Carroll came in third. 
The lighter weights helped carry their share of the scoring burden as well, as senior Guy Locksmith won the championship of the 126-pound class, while teammate Eric Crown managed to pick up third-place honors. Meanwhile, freshman Ron Wisniewski continued to impress the coaches as he also finished third while wrestling at 134 pounds. 
While the Irish grapplers certainly have reason to be pleased with their performance over the weekend, they cannot afford to rest on their laurels as they begin their dual meet season this Saturday when they face Olivet Nazarene at 2 p.m. in the ACC. 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team sank from the glory of victory to the agony of defeat in just a few quick hours this weekend by falling victim to Xavier in the finals of the North Star Conference. The Irish had knocked off Loyola shortly before in a dazzling display of volleyball to earn a berth in the finale. 
Xavier frustrated the Irish in five 
· games to finish on top of the heap. "It was a rollercoaster ride," said As· sistant Coach Renee DeGraff. "We never really got going and they were able to capitalize on our mistakes. The finals started one hour after the semi-finals and we were never able to regroup and prepare for the match." 
just hours before, the Irish had taken a giant step forward by wallop· ing Loyola, the only conference team to have beaten the Irish during the regular season, in three straight games, I5·I2, I 5-IO, I 5-2. 
"In the Loyola match we did the best we've done all year," said DeGraff. "Our play was excellent." 
It was sweet revenge for the Irish. And for the Irish, who opened the tournament with a four-game win over St. Louis, things were looking mighty fine going into the finals. 
But then Xavier, a team the Irish had handily defeated earlier in the season, played the role ofthe spoiler and turned the tables on the Irish to claim the top prize. The Irish team had to settle for second best. 
"We gave so much and played so well that when we 

r 
I 
l 
\ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I. 
r 
i·, 
\! 
l\ 
i 
\. ,'': 
}\
1\ 
-, 

\ __ 
l ~ 
' 
I 
( 
I 
\ 
' 
The Observer 

Tuesday, November 20, 1984 -page 14 
Allen Pinkett runs all over the record book 
Although he has not even finished his junior year, tailback Allen Pinkett has already made a major mark in the Notre Dame record book. Despite the outstanding perfor­mances of great Irish players of the past like Angelo Bertelli, George Gipp and John Lattner, Pinkett has broken or is close to breaking most of the career and single-season rushing and scoring records. He currently stands second on the all-time rushing list and may break the Notre Dame career scoring mark in Saturday's USC game. With just one touchdown, Pinkett will break Red Salmon's record of 250 points set from 1900-1903. It is one of Notre Dame's oldest records. Below is a list of where Pinkett stands in the record book. 
Career'Scoring Career All-Purpose 
1. Red Salmon, 1900-03 250 Running 2. Allen Pinkett, 1982-84 248 
1. Allen Pinkett, 1982·84 3,9263. Dave Reeve, 197 4-77 247 2. Vagas Ferguson, 1976-79 3,838 
Career Rushing 
1. Vagas Ferguson, 1976-79 3,472 2. Allen Pinkett, 1982-84 2,933 
Career 100-yard Games Career Touchdowns 
1. 
Allen Pinkett, 1982-84 15 1. Allen Pinkett, 1982-84 41 

2. 
Vagas Ferguson, 1976-79 13 2. Red Salmon, 1900-03 36 

3. 
Jerome Heavens, 1975-78 10 3. Vagas Ferguson, 1976-79 35 George Gipp, 1917-20 10 


Single-season Rushing Single-season TO's Single-season Points 
1. Vagas Ferguson, 1979 1437 
1. Allen Pinkett, 1983 18 1. Allen Pinkett, 1983 110 
2. Allen Pinkett, 1983 1394 
2. Allen Pinkett, 1984 17 2. Red Salmon, 1903 105 
3. Vagas Ferguson, 1978 1192 
Vagas Ferguson, 1979 17 3. Allen Pinkett, 1984 102 
4. AI Hunter, 1976 1058 
4. Bill Downs, 1905 16 Vagas Ferguson, 1979 102 
5. Allen Pinkett, 1984 1007 

In 1970, quarterback Joe Theis­Still fresh on the minds of most mann threw for 526 yards, but the Irish fans is Michael Harper's Irish ended up on the short end of a "phantom touchdown" with 48
Irish 


38-28 score. Two years later, Notre seconds left in Notre Dame's most
continuedfrom page 16 

Dame had to endure six touch­recent trip out West. The Irish took a Applications now being acceptedthey'll be keyed to stop Pinkett this 
downs by taliback Anthony Davis in 13-3 lead heading into the fourthweek." 
a 45-23 Trojan win. The next quarter, but allowed two USC touch·
The kicking game: Assistant fQ the Publicity DirectQr
meeting between the two teams at down drives in the final period toOnce again, Saturday's matchup 
the Coliseum proved to be pure dis­lose the game, 17-13. Student Assistantship 
will feature two of the nation's out­standing placekickers in Southern aster. Notre Dame built a 24-0 lead Keys to the game: 
with a minute to go in the second This is the classic matchup, pitting paid position 8-12 hours per week
Cal's Steve Jordan and Notre Dame's quarter, but Southern Cal scored 55 one team's strength against the
John Carney. Jordan, a four-year 
starter, has been busy this season in points in the next 1 7 minutes to take other's strength and one team's Publicity experience helpful but not necessary a 55-24 decision. weakness against the other's week·
the field goal department, as the Appllcatlqns available in Room 110 
Bad fortunes continued in Los An­ness. The Notre Dame offense willTrojans have had trouble scoring 
-Mqreau Hall Saint Mary's Cqllege
geles for Notre Dame in 1976, as the have to find another way besides
touchdowns at times during the Irish won nearly every statistical cat· handing the ball off to Pinkett to gain
year. Jordan has scored the winning 
points in victories over Arizona State egory but lost 17-13. Two seasons yards because there will be 1 1 NOlRE bf\lvtE ( 6-3, 2 FG's ), Arizona ( 17-14, 1 FG) later the Irish found themselves Trojans keying on him every play. 5NHTMAlZYS down :24-6 to USC, but Joe Montana But, maybe more than any aspect
and then top-rated Washington ( 16­
led a Notre Dame rally that put the of the game being played, it will be7, 3 FG's). Jordan's 50-yard-plus 
'IHEKIRS
Irish on top 25-24 with 46 seconds depend a lot on which team wants torange and consistency are impres­remaining. Southern Cal's drive for win the game more. More often thansive. 
the winning field goal with two not, the NO-USC games go down toJohn Carney increased his seconds on the clock included the the last minutes, so whichever team
percentage of field goals by hitting disputed "no-fumble" call on Trojan has enough fire left will probably
on three attempts against Penn State. 
quarterback Paul McDonald. turn out to be the winner.
Carney has to have a calming effect on Faust, because the Irish coach can turn to his kicker with confi­dence for three points. 
Freshman Paul Green handles the puntingfor Southern Cal, so the Irish 
Tonight!
have the advantage in the experi­ence department with fifth-year senior Mike Viracola handling the 
at

Notre Dame punting chores. Incangibles: With the Trojans' loss to UCLA last 
Senior Bar...
week, the pressure is on Southern Cal to come through with a win before its Rose Bowl appearance. Another factor that also is in USC's 
25t Beers! 
favor is the tendency for "strange" things to happen to the Irish in the 
9:00pm. -close 
LA. Coliseum. In the eight games since the last victory for the Irish in California, Notre Dame has seen the game slip Closed Wed. -Sat. for Thanksgiving 
through its hands four times. 


THE EARLY  
BIRD...  
PREPARE FOR:  
Educational Center  1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  


~4(Jt~C3L~--------------------------------------T-ue.~--~-T,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_2_o_,_I9_8_4_-__ e_l__
P_ag__ S 


Doonesbury 

8IfT ~flfBRJ.IIJil:t, LAP/$ANI?6EN­7l!MF..N, YaJWILJ.. flJ lHE.MWWOIUANf 1JUN6 YOIIU. evtll. PO IN 't'rM!. U~ES! 'tal 
Bloom Connty 
600P @I!Nif'IG. 1HI5 
IS ll8C WOW NtV/6
70N/(11{T. 1011AY, 
N01HIN6 Hfii'PEN£/1. 
I' 



1HIS Sf/NilAY ON ''THIS WW< Wl71f /liiV/!1 BKINKt£Yi (:£()R6€ WIU. llNfJ SAM f10NAU1fi()N WIU. AR&Ue AfJ(}(ffAU nl/5 
NOTHING. 
The Far Side 

Garry Trudeau 

Campus 
•
3:30p.m. -Graduate Seminar,"Multicomponent Adsorption," Prof. Imre Zwiebel, Arizona State Uni­versity, Foom 181 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by Chemical Engineering Dept. 

•4:30
p.m. -Seminar,"Sporulation -Specificity of Sproulation-regulated Genes of Yeast," Dr. Mary Clancy, ND, Room 278 Galvin, Sponsored by Biol­ogy Dept. 

•4:45-6:45p.m. 
-Sale ofWomen ofND Calen­dar, North & South Dining Halls, Sponsored by Holy Cross Hall, 57. 

•6:30
p.m. -Workshop,"Study Skills," Counseling & Psych Services, Sponsored by C9unseling & Psych Services, Free. 

•
7 p.m. -GroundZero Meeting, Centerfor Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero. 


Berke Breathed 
•7:30 p.m. -Tuesday Night Film Series , "Orpheus," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30 p.m. -Faculty Forum Lecture, "Current Events and Their Effect on the Economy," Dean Roger Skurski, ND, Rare Books Room. 
•8 
p.m. -African and Black Studies FUms, "Generations of Resistance" and "Awake From Mourning," Center for Social Concerns. 

•8 
p.m. -Lectures, "Lebanon: Its History and Religions," N. Daher & D. DeTreville, Uttle Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by American Lebanese Club. 


TV Tonight 
.. 

Gary Larson 
6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 

16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 16 M*A•S*H 22 Three's Company 
16 Barney Miller 22 WK RP In Cincinnati 
16 TheA-Team 
22 Charlie Brown Thanksgiving 
28 Three's A Crowd 
34 Nova 
22 Bugs Bunny Thanksgiving 
28 Who's the Boss? 
16 Riptide 
22 Movie -For Love or Money 
28 Paper Dolls 
34 Frontline 
16 Remington Steele 
28 Jessie 
34 The Constitution-That Delicate Bal­ance 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Movie • The Magnificant Amerber­
sons
"It was horrible! And w~n they came after me, my whole life flashed before my eyes!" 
The Dally Cross'Word 
ACROSS 30 Like a bungler 67 Correction 11 Light·Horse 68 Old verb Harry
1 History: abbr. 32 Sun god 4 Philippines 34 Certain weapon ending 12 Go astray volcano 36 Pointed 69 Gob 14 Eye specialist 7 Haggard 70 Gull 16-wave 
heroine 38 Deer 71 "-Carlos" 21 Remedies 39 Posed 24 Lead on 42 Schuss 26 -and there
10 Diminutive DOWN
43 Pigment 28 Unpredictablesuffix 1 Plane locator 
44 Antimacassar in a way 
13 Kind of bomb 2 Unearthly
45 Lobster part 

15 Accomplice 3 Davit 29 Compass marking 
47 Purport

17 Moneyin 4 Wood 31 Sorvino or Anka
49 Locale

Thessalonica 5 Brilliantine 33 Newspaper
50 Farm denizen 

18 Knowing one 6 King of Norway employee
52 Mysterious

19 Jap. people 7 Pointed 34 Wonder-worker 20 Remotely structure 35 Traveler 56 -de Ia Plata 37 Mud 22 Commune near 58 Co-worker: abbr. 40 Went at top 
Arnhem 60 Olive genus 8 Solo of "Star speed 23 Staggered 61 Made fearful Wars" 41 Gemstones 25 Trammel 64 Attendance 9 Gaelic 42 Baden-Baden e.g. 27 Lofty point 66 Scheme 10 Upintheair 46 Heap of stones 
The Holste!ns vtslt the Grand Canyon. 
48 Character 57 Skip 51 Leggy bird 59 Pipe part 53 Audibly 61 Particle 54 Combining form 62 -Altos 
in medicine 63 Le Gallienne 55 Corroded 65 Irritated t-:::--+---t-t-­
Monday's Solution 
©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

11120/84 11120/84
All Rights Reserved 


for late night munchies !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 

LOOK 
INTO . 

DAilBYS 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii in the basement of LaFortune 
---::..­



------------------~-------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 20, 1984 --page 16
SRorts 

Irish put November record and Bowl hopes on line at USC 
By TirnRON ROBERTS has 33 catches and 548 yards. Junior done very well the past few weeks, Quarterback Steve Beuerlein, the other. 
Sports Writer tight end Joe Cormier ( 30 for 345) allowing only 100 yards or fewer coming offof his best collegiate per­Providing the push for USC will be Notre Dame puts its 3-0 record for and senior flanker Timmie Ward ( 25 yards through the air the past four of formance, with 20 completions for a trio of 235-pound linebackers, for 369) catch the shorter, more fre­five weeks. 267 yards, will face an inconsistent Lo01bardi Trophy candidate Jack
the month of November on the line at the Los Angeles Coliseum this Sat­quent passes. Notre Dame's offense against USC secondary that has had impres­Del Rio and fellow seniors Neil Hope Tollner, in his second year as Southern Cal's defense: sive days defending against the pass, and Duane Bickett. Southern Cal's
urday against Rose Bowl-bound Southern Cal at 3:40 p.m. EST. The coach of the Trojans, has gone back After finding success with the but one that also has been vic­defense has only given up 63 points Irish can insure a bowl trip for them­to the typical USC-style offense, in­double tight end alignment for three timized by some good quarterbacks in the first half all season, and is selves ifthe Coliseum is a little more cluding the more frequent use ofthe weeks, Faust changed back to an 1-that the Trojans have faced. credited with carrying the offense hospitable than it has been in the famous "student body right" and less formation against Penn State, trying The Southern Cal defense is until Green got settled in at quarter­emphasis on the misdirection and to confuse the Nittnay Lion defense. ranked ninth in the nation against back.
past. The last time Notre Dame play-action plays with which Ton­This week Faust and the Irish offen­the run. allowing only 101.8 rushing With the quarterback change
'·. 
defeated the Trojans in Los Angeles ner's first squad could only muster a sive unit will try to riddle USC's yards per game, ninth in scoring early in the season, you really have
I 
was in the 1966_ national champion­4-6-1 record. defense by using one or the other, or defense ( 13.7 points a game), and to credit USC's defense with doing a
}'
'' ship season. As if that incentive will even a combination ofboth. 15th in total offense ( 288 yards per great job of allowing the offense to
Doing most of the ball carrying is 
not be enough, CBS Sports will be Tailback Allen Pinkett has game). develop," Faust said. "They just
junior tailback Fred Crutcher. 
telecasting the game live nationally, cranked up Notre Dame's running With the Notre Dame offense on a haven't allowed many people to run
Crutcher has had only four 1 00-yard 
justifiably billing the game as game, adding 189 yards last week roll, and the sticky Trojan defense the ball against them, and I'm sure 
games, but has over 1,000 yards
"college football's greatest rivalry." against Penn State, to put his total for limiting opponents' yardage, one
rushing for the season on 261 see IRISH, page 14
the year over the 1,000-yard mark. side ofthe line will have to give in to
•"I don't know whether we can ex­
carries. Ryan Knight, another goodpect to play as well this week against tailback, has totalled 448 yards in 
USC as we did against Penn State," 'f~?~i~
105 attempts, including a 1 00-yard Irish head coach Gerry Faust said. 
_,;.
performance in last week's show­
"We've played well on the road, but _ 
down with UCLA.

Notre Dame hasn't had many things Southern Cal is also set at the ful­go its way in the Coliseum. I'd like to lback slot with Kennedy Pola, who \~ see us do well for the sake of the has 1 72 yards in 38 attempts. Pola, at players. We've had our ups and
:~\ 6-2, 230-pounds, also fills the role of 
~~l downs this year, but it would be blocking back well.
1',
.. 
great to have the players have a Green is a straight dropback pas­
chance to remember winning their ser and won't move around too
last four games. Obviously, that's much, even if under pressure. Thisgoing to be a big chore playing could allow for a large number of someone like USC, but we're healthy sacks if Notre Dame maintains its now and that has made a big differ­pressure on the quarterback andence." 
does not allow the Trojan running
Southern Cal's offense against 
game to get started.
Notre Dame's defense: 

Despite losing Sean Salisbury, his Mike Gann has been the force in starting quarterback, in the second the pass rush department for the game of the season, head coach Ted Irish, registering 1 0 sacks and eight Tollner's team still throws the foot­other tackles for lost yardage. The ball. Not a lot, mind you, but junior linebacking picture also is improv­college transfer Tim Green has ing every week, as Mike Larkin and thrown the ball 168 times, complet­Mike Kovaleski are back to full ing 88 of them for 114 1 yards and health and Tony Furjanic will be only eight interceptions. ready to get more playing time this 
The Trojans use their receivers Saturday. primarily in short patterns, as Cornerback Troy Wilson will be 
Obsl~nrr/Pet~ LJacbn 
evidenced by the number of yards returning to the lineup after sitting tbis weekend when they travel to Los Angeles to per catch the receivers average. out for two games with a bruised meet USC. A wtn for Notre Dame could translate Southern Cal's lone deep threat is thigh. Wilson may not be called on, Into a bowl bid for the 6-4 Irish. Theron Roberts junior split end Hank Norman, who though, as the Irish pass defense has previews the game above. 

Senior defensive tackle Mike Gann appears to have enjoyed making another quarterback bite the dust tn lastSaturday's 44-7 rout ofPenn State. The Irish wtll have their bands full once again 
Men's and women's basketball teams debut this weekend 
Irish face Manhattan in the ACC as freshman Rivers starts at guard 

ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Editor 

Next Sunday, the Notre Dame basketball team starts playing for keeps when the Jaspers of Manhattan College invade the ACC for a 7 p.m. contest. For those students staying in South Bend over Thanksgiving Break or those arriving back early enough, there are still plenty oftickets available. 
This will be the eighth meeting between the two teams, with the Irish holding a 6-1 lead in the series. Last year, Notre Dame struggled before finally edging Manhattan, 
. ·; 63-58, in Madison Square Garden. The Jaspers finished last season at 9-19 overall, and their 2-12 record in the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference was good for last place. Manhattaa returns all five starters .\.' and 11 lettermen from a year ago, which 
!I 
'· 
might not be saying much in light of the suc­cess it had. 
' 
,! 
At 6-7, senior forward Tim Cain leads
~ 
coach Gordon Chiesa's 1984·85 squad. Cain, who averaged 20.9 points and 6.1 rebounds per game last season, is on line to become the Riverdale, N.Y., school's first 2,000-point scorer. Cain has been an All-MAAC selection in each ofhis three seasons as a Jasper. 
Last season's leader in field goal percentage, free throw percentage and as­sists, senior guard Jim Haufier, returns for another year also. The 6-1 Haufler dished out 113 assists last season. 
Other starters returning are 6-1 sopho­more guard Ed Lawson, 6-5 junior forward Maurice Williams and 6-8 senior center Bill
' 
~-
McLellan. Chiesa admits to being "cautiously opti­mistic" entering this season, probably be­
cause Manhattan has never had one of the greatest ofbasketball traditions. "When your teams are bad, you have to be funny," says the energetic Manhattan coach. 
The Irish probably will open against the jaspers with a lineup of David Rivers and Scott Hicks at guard, Ken Barlow and Jim Dolan at forward, and Tim Kempton filling the middle. 
see MEN, page 11 
Irish take 19th at NCAA Finals 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 

The 13th-ranked Notre Dame cross­country team ended a brilliant season yes­terday with a 19th-place finish at the NCAA Cross-Country Championships held at Penn State. 
The Irish totaled 369 points to finish far behind Arkansas, which won the meet with only 101 points. Arizona finished in second place with 11 1 points, followed by Tennes­see, Wisconsin, and Virginia. Twenty-two teams competed in the meet. 
Mike Collins led the Irish with a 59th­place finish in a time of 30:55.4 for the 10,000 meter course. Senior Tim Cannon placed 74th overall in a time of 31:05.7, while freshman Dan Garrett finished with a 104th-place time of 31:35.1. Senior co­captain Bill Courtney finished in 116th place with a time of 31:44.2. Senior Ed Wil­lenbrink ended the Irish scoring with a I45th-place finish in a time of 32:19. 1. 
Women head to Tennessee to Illeet national power Lady Volunteers 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao has never been one to schedule early-season games against easy opponents, and this year is no exception. 
Once again, the Irish will have to overcome the normal early-season rustiness and play relatively error-free ball if they 
Jim Tyler finished out ofthe scoring with a I49th-place time of 32:24.8. The final Irish runner, juniorJohn Magill, took I68th-place with a time of33:06.5. 
Ed Eyestone of Brigham Young University captured the individual title in a time of 29:28.8. 
Going into the meet, Irish head coachJoe Piane felt that his team had the potential to place in the top 1 0. Although the 19th-place finish appears disappointing, Piane remained positive about the meet and the entire year. 
"We could've run better, but we finished the year among the top 20 teams in the country, which was pretty darn good," Piane reasoned. "We could have placed a lot higher if we had just run a little better. In fact, the difference between 11th place and 19th place was only about 35 points." 
Furthermore, the Irish finished only 44 points behind their pre-meet goal ofa top 1 0 placement. 
see FINALS, page 10­
want to start out the season on a winning note. lbe reason? The opening game op­ponent will be perennial national power­house Tennessee. 
The Lady Volunteers, who reached the finals of the NCAA Championship last season, will play host to Notre Dame on Sat­urday in front of the usual large crowd at Stokely Athletics Center. Under their head coach Pat Head Summitt, who was also the coach of the gold-medal winning U.S. Olym­pic team, the Lady Vols have compiled an amazing 245-76 record over the past 10 seasons. 
Fortunately for the Irish, this year's Ten­nessee squad has been decimated by the graduation of five key players -four of them starters. Only one of the returnees, 5-9 senior guard Sheila Collins, averaged more than three points per game last season. As a result, Summitt will be looking for some of 
her  younger  players,  namely  four  sop­ 
homores  and  five  freshmen,  to  improve  
rapidly.  

With her top 1 0 players returning from last year's 14-14 team, DiStani'>lao definitely does not have a problem with inexperience. The four seniors on the team -Mary Beth Schueth, Laura Dougherty, Carrie Bates and Ruth Kaiser -have played major roles on the team since they were freshmen, and will be joined once again by a trio ofjuniors that has also made major contributions since it joined the program. 
"This is definitely the best chance we've had so fa"r to beat Tennessee," admits DiS­tanislao, who has compiled a 60-48 record in 
see WOMEN, page 11 



