Festival-page 6 

VOL XVIIl, NO. 93 the imkpt.:mknl ~tudt.:nt m:"~papt.:r ~T\ ing noln dame ami ~aint ma~ ·, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, I 984 

Student disturbances cause policy change at Bendix Woods park 
By MARY HEILMANN 
News Staff 
A series ofdisturbances at Bendix 
Woods involving Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students have neces­
sitated several changes in the park's 
policy toward student groups, 
according to Nancy MacCartney, su­
perintendent of recreation for St. Joseph County Parks. 
Non-faculty supervised groups will now be charged an extra Sl 0 per hour for a uniformed county police officer to be in attendance. 
Thl· change in policy occurred as a result ola Fe h. 4 incident involving students and park employees. According to MacCartney, the be­havior of students on the Student Union-sponsored trip "reached the point of violence and total dis­respect for the park staff and other park patrons. Alcohol appeared to he the catalyst on this evening and other evenings that students have disrupted the normal park opera­tion." 
The disturbance began when park employees tried to restrain students at the top of the tubing hill until the run was clear. Christopher Nye, director of the Bendix Woods Ski Patrol, reported in a letter to Dean of Students James Roemer that "three park employees had physically sta· tioned themselves in the center of the tube run to keep people from going too soon. Agroup offive or six students formed a line about ten feet back and then the group ran over the attendants, who were fortunately not injured." 
Other students ignored orders prohibiting tubing on the ski slopes. When park employees tried to stop them, the students attempted to knock them over by sliding down on the tubes. Several employees, including Mark Mowery, the park's Winter Program Director, sustained minor injuries. 

"I was informed that at one point 
in the evening, a student also 
punched a tube hill attendant in the 
face several times and then ran to 
avoid apprehension. Had Mr. 
Mowery or myselfbeen present, that 
student would have gone to jail for 
assault," Nyc wrote to Roemer. 

In a return letter, Roemer assured 
Nyc that the administration regrets 
the incidents which, according to 
MacCartney, have been occurring 
throughout the season. 

."We will cooperate with you and 
all park personnel . . . and we 
apologise for the serious discour­
tesies ofour students," Roemer said. 
He maintained, however, that the 
issue lies with Bendix Woods ad­
ministrators and the Student Union 
Social Commission, which has been 
asked to pay for damages, including 
broken eyeglasses and torn clothing. 
Asked what action the Student 
Union plans to take, Laurene 
Powers, director of the Social Com­
mission, replied, "Right now, I'm not 
sure what we're going to do. When I 
left Bendix Woods, they had told me 
that everything was fine. Chances 
are that not all the employees were 
down from the slope yet." 

"it's not an isolated incident there have been problems like this for a while. I guess they felt that the Student Union is a key group at Notre Dame and a good place to S'~art to address the issue. I really regret that it happened and was very surprised," said Powers. 
MacCartney said that she hopes 
the preventative measures will be 
temporary, adding that "when 
respect for the rules and personnel 
is evident, this extra precaution will 
not be necessary. It's very unfor­
tunate that a dozen or so students 
out ofsuch a large group caused the · problems which will now affect 
everyone." 

junior Heidi Kuhn takes advantage ofthe un­The quads once again looked likeplaygrounds as usually warm weather to read (or at least try students all overcampus enjoyed the ·sunshine. read) in the shade ofa tree by Saint Mary's lake. 


Investigation fails to discover how Reagan obtained Carter papers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Justice Department said yesterday it had been unable to discover in an eight· month investigation how Ronald Reagan's presidential campaign ob­tained former President Jimmy Car­ter's briefing papers in 1980, but said it "uncovered no credible evidence that--the transfer violated any criminal law." 
The department also said it had found no evidence of "any plan or conspiracy by Reagan election offi­cials to obtain the Carter briefing materials or any other confidential, internal Carter documents." 
The department concluded there were no government documents among the briefing materials and that the Reagan camp never had the 
final version of Carter's briefing 
materials for his crucial Oct. 28, 
1980 debate with Reagan. 
But FBI agents reviewing thousands of documents in the files ofReagan campaign officials did find .other documents "identified as in­ternal documents of the Carter White House or the Carter cam· 
paign." 
But the FBI found no evidence of 
theft or criminal misappropriation 
of these documents. "In most in­
stances the material tin question had 
been widely disseminated to the 
press or others and were obtained 
through wholly proper channels," 
the department said. 
In other cases, it was impossible to determine how these documents were obtained "due to the professed 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------~----~------------,lackofmemoryorknowledgeonthe 

Chileans speak out on oppression 
By BARBARA HARDIN 
News Staff 
"Imagine, tomorrow, not being able to say what you want as a student or teacher," said Professor Jaime Bellalta, a native of Chile, of the oppression in his country. 
Bellalta, an architecture professor at Notre Dame, spoke along with another Chilean, Isabel Donoso of Santiago, at a Human Rights lecture last night at Saint Mary's. 
The Human Right's lecture series was developed by the Saint Mary's Justice Education Depart· ment. According to Esmee Bel­lalta, coordinator of the department, the lectures are designed to inform teachers and students of the current condi­tions in oppressed countries. 
Donoso, the coordinator of a human rights group in Chile, said that presently the people ofChile 
are under the rule of a dictator who has taken away the rights they once had under democracy. When the Chileans partake in their non-violent protest of ban­ging pots and pans together in the streets, said Donoso, many are detained by the police, some tortured and some killed. 
According to Donoso, "30 per­cent of the people in Chile receive a salary of $20 a month, and 30 percent are un­employed." Families live togeth· er in one house and "most Chileans don't know what it's like to sleep in a bed alone," said Donoso. 
Donoso said the Catholic Church has taken an active role in aiding the "oppressed, repressed people of Chile." She explained that lawyers gather with communities to explain their legal rights. prisoners are visited, health problems are dealt with, and an awareness of the suffering that occurs is spread through literature and word of mouth. 
Bellalta agreed that the Chilean conditions are "totally inhuman. . ..any type of parlia­ment or Congress has been eliminated." Presently, the only type of decision-making party is chosen directly by the govern­ment. 
Bellalta said Chile is definitely a Catholic country, as 85 to 95 percent of the Chileans are Cath· olic. He said the government has not been able to break up or take control of the Catholic church, though they have made many ef. forts to do so. Bellalta, like Donoso, spoke of the Church's part of those in possession of the documents," the department said. 
major whose away.  role in aiding citizens rights have been taken  
see CHILE, page 4  

Benefit show to preview latest in summer fashions 
1-----------------------------------------------------------------.Jnocharge for the use ofthe building. 
In neither these documents nor in the briefing materials was there any classified informtion, the depart· ment said. 
The department said the I.BI inter­viewed more than 220 people, including President Reagan and high officials of both camapigns. About 
I,000 boxes of documents, audio and video tapes were reviewed by the I.BI including videotapes of the Reagan debate preparations. Laboratory examinations were con­ducted on some documents, the department said. 
But spokesman Tom DeCair said no polygraph examinations were given, because the investigation never reached that stage. "We closed it down when we determined there was no credible evidence of a crime," he said. 
By MIKE KRISKO 
StaffReporter 
Student fashion experts, spec­tators, and critics will have a chance to preview the latest in summer ap­parel, at a benefit fashion show to be held by the sophomore class the week after spring break. Proceeds for the show will be donated to the Special Olympics. 
Brian Welsey, public relations chairman for the show, said "this is the first time that anything like this has been done. We would like; to have a big turnout to make this event successful." 
Financial success is likely since most of the materials are being donated, said Welsey. "Hudson's, Milady Shop, The Limited, Rich Man, Gilbert's, Redwood and Ross, Brown's Sporting Goods and L.S. Ayres are all donating the use of some of their fashions. There will be Merle Norman's is even donating the makeup for the models. We will be charging two dollars per person, so we hope to raise between $300 and S400 from the event." 
Welsey credited Fashion Show Chairman Jenny Stepan with the idea for the event. "Jenny said she had been involved in fundraisers of this type before and they were quite successful. The rest of the advisory council liked the idea and decided to support the event." 
The council chose "Quest for Gold" as the theme because of the show's beneficiary, the summer Spe­cial Olympics. 
The models for the show, accord­ing to Welsey, are Kathy Murdock, Carolyn Hagan, Susan Curry, Chris Degraff, Anne DuCharme, Terry Kirschman,Julie Dunn,Jeanie Poole, Kevin Moser, Jim Rudser, Mike Roberts andJohn Coyne. 
The exact date and location of th( show have not yet been decided. 


Friday, February 24, _1_!84 ~page 2 
.... 
.. ~"'r ' 

In Brief ·· A toast to·freedom of inforiDafion 
Saint Mary's Little Sib's Weekend will be held 
April 6·7, according to a decision reached at Wednesday night's meeting of tht· Programming Board. Detaikd plans for the event arc not yt·t tlnal. In additiOJ1, a bicycle workshop will be offered to Saint Marv's students on Saturday, Mar. 3 I, from I 0 a.m. to 3 p.m. Students may· bring their bicycles to Angda Athletic Facility for servicing and conditioning. "Both parts and maintenance will be offered at a dis· count," said Lee Ann Franks. Franks also announced that a vending mad1ine l'ommittce will he formed to discuss the quality of food ofti:rnl in tht· mal·hincs. One representative from each dorm will st·rvt· on the committee. -The Obsen1er 
The sophomore ski triphas been cancelled. Rick Ruehlmann. social commissioner for the class, said that "a lack of interest and had ski weather" were the reasons for the cancellation. Rud1lmann said he planned to call the 40 students who registered for the trip to give them details about refunds. -The Observer 
Negotiators from the White House and 
Congress resumed tl!lks yesterday on reducing federal budget deficits with no agreement in sight, but plenty of partisan bickering over what to do and who is to blame for the red ink. Meanwhile, the tax-writing committees in the House and Senate began work on their own deficit-reduction packages. In his nationally broadcast news conference Wednesday night, President Reagan -who called for the talks to find a SI00 billion "down payment" on eliminating deficits -urged the bargainers to "get down to business." The presi­dent also said he does not favor tax increases or military spending reductions as a method of trimming deficits, projected at Sl80.4 billion in the fiscal I9HS budget Reagan submitted to Congress ear­lier this month. -AP 
Poverty grew sharplyhetween 1979 and 19s2, but official estimates may exaggerate the number ofpoor Americans be­cause the figures ignore such benefits as food stamps and Medicare, according to a Census Bureau study. The nation's poverty rate -the share of peoplt: bdow the official poverty level -could he up to one-third o;maller if non-cash bent•fits for food, housing and medical cart· wt·re considered income. the report says. But by any calcula­
tion, poverty has grown. For 19H2, the latest figures available, the hureaut·stimates that 34.4 million Americans, about IS percent othe population, lived in poverty. That's up from I 1.7 percent in 1979.­
AP 

Of Inter.est 

Saint Mary's students who participated in last fall's "Semcstl·r Around the World" program will pn·scnt a slide show and panl'l discussion of thl'ir travels and cxperiS'W9.ill .' p.m..~od1>; in Carroll I tall. Students spt·nt eight WtTks studying at Stella Maris Col· kge in Madras, India, and supplemented their stay with side trips to China, Japan, !long Kong, Thailand and Singapore, as well as to northern and southern India. During their stay in India, the students 
Wl'rl' given a two-hour audience with Prime Minister Indira Ghandi. -Tbe Ohserl'er 
Students for Continued Responsible 
Drinking will protest the possibility ofa dry campus at the Marquette haskl·thall gamt· tomorrow. Posters will he distributed before the game at gatt· I0, and fans will he encouraged to cheer "We are ...not dry!" -The Ohserr•er 
The Notre Dame Department ofMusic 
will present pianist William Cerny in recital Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Annenht·rg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. The program is a com­mt·morativc tribute to four composers: Haydn, Stravinsky, Brahms and Charles (;riffes, and their individual trt·atment ofone ofthe most traditional pianistk li.Jrms, the sonata. Cerny is a professor of Music and was chairman oftht· music department from 1972 until 198 I. -
THe Ohsen'er 


Weather 

Partly cloudy today with a .w pt·rcent chance of light rain. Much cooler with the high in the low to mid 40s. Mostly doudy tonight with the lows in the mid to upper 20s. Becoming partly sunny tomorrow with the high in the mid to upper 30s. -AP 
The Observer 
l'h" Oh-.·n·.,r (I \I" ~ 11 1) 2-·rOOO) ;_, puhll~hn.l \loth.JJ~ rhrouJ.th hida) illld on honu: lowhall ~Jiurd.l)'\, exc.:c:pl durmg t·xam .uu.t \'Ol4:ouion pt·riod.... The Oblltt'rvt·r •~ puhll'hnJ hy I Ill' ~l.lu..knt"' til tlu· 1 111\Tf"'IIY ol ~~~lrt· Dame.: .tnd ~aim Man·.., ( "ollq(t' Suh~f.:nplittl\"1 ma~ h(.' pun h~l:o.t·d for $!~ p<·r ~ t·ar ( S I 'i pt·r 't·nu·~lt'r) h~· "'rllmJ.: Tht· Observer, P <> nux (j. Notrt· Dame.lndiarlil 16~c;(1 
The Observer •~ J nwmht.:r of'Ou· As­-Kl<·iated Pre~~. All n:production nglu~ .tn· n·~t.·n·t·d 
Tm.lay's issue wa~ produn:d by: 

PrtJtluctit~tl Consultant .. ..... Stc.:vc: ~ostt."r /JeSIJin Editor ....... .Thoma' Rohcn Small Des/J{tl Assistant.. ..... Lisa \'isingardi 
l.ayoril Staff.....  ...... Paul. Tamic ami Dot  
7)•f}('SL'IIers ....  . .... Tracy Hrin~ardncr  
Vic· Sdulli  
Neu•.< /itlltor ..  . ....... Mary Healey  
(,'op)' litlitor.  . ........... Ed KonraJy  

sports C:ofJy l:.ilitor... . . ...... l<'tf Blumh Vil•u1Jofnt Lt~)·out ...... Mike.· McC;mght:y Features CopJ• EdiltJr... ........... Pt:tt· Ciotla Fl'atures l.ayout... .. ... ~arah ant.l M:.u-y NIJ l)t~l' Etlilor...... ..........Jdl Barrin~ton .HIC /ht)' hlilor..... .... :1-laggit· O'Conn<'ll .-It/ Ot•siJIII .. ..... Hoh Slota PhllllJJ!,TilPh£•r ......... Carol Gales 
Confused about next year's alcohol policy? 
That's not surprising; after all, the alcohol committee has not released any information about what they are considering for next year, nor have they released the information they have collected about Notre Dame drinking habits. 
All this year, the Alcohol Committee has been gather· ing information to determine the extent ofthe "alcohol problem" on campus and a possible solution to it. While the members of the committee claim that the informa­tion they've gathered is very convincing, they will not release it to the students. 
l, for one, am tired ofhearing "You mean you don't think there's any alcoholproblem on campus!?" as the committee members' response when the extent of the problem is questioned. The existence of students on this campus who have a drinking problem is not in ques­tion. There arc. Rather, the question is whether or not 
would stop these ifthey said which options were seriously being considered. Reports have circulated several times that the Alcohol Committee had already decided what to do, that the Board of Trustees had approved the decision, and that the report would he made public later that day. As far as anyone on the committee will admit, none of the reports are true. 
At the risk of fueling speculation, hut with the hope that this will limit the rumors, here are some of the changes that the committee may recomnwnd. T.~~re will he some kind of change from the present status quo. And the campus will probably not go completely dry. 
Viable options they may he considering include enforcing the state drinking age of 2 I; banning all hall 
parties which serve alcohol, hut allowing drinking in the rooms; banning all hall parties except in-hall SYRs and formals; strongly enforcing the current rules; and leaving things as they are hut having a mandatory 
Student Union

TRIP TO CHICAGO 

Sat., March 3, 1984 Bus leaves Library Circle: 1 O:OOam Bus leaves Chicago: 5:00pm (Cblc:aao ••••, 
$5 Sign-ups at S.U. Record Store 
Bus will go to the "Windy City's" museum and WaterTower Place and other requested drop-offs 

YELLOW CAB 
offers the lowest rates in the city to and from ND/SMC and the airport. We have no intention of raising our prices! We also appreciate your business. Call233-9333. 
For your information, you can rent or check in Hertz rental cars and trucks at our location: 
.. ,... 

710 Niles Within walking distance from the campus! Call for reservation: 232-5871 
Tom Mowle 
counseling program for problem drinkers. 
Which of these, if any, the committee will recom· mend no one can say. In any case, the committee does not make the final decision. They report to the Board of Trustees, who could force some kind ofchange, throw out the report, or leave the matter up to the administra­tion. The administration also can act against the com­mittee's recommendations, if they sec fit to do so. 
Students deserve to know what the committee is considering because only students will be affected by 
commiSSioners need to agree, Student Body President Brian Callaghan and Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Mike Carlin can suggest policy, but not necessarily have any effect on it. Their hands may he tied. 
In the meantime, the students are not able to make plans for next year. Housing contracts have already come due. RA selections will he made before the report is issued. While the committee members hope that some report will be made before the end of the school year, they have not set a deadline on themselves. So it is possible that we may all get a letter this summer ... 
< 
Dear Student, 

The alcohol policy for the 1984-85 school year u•ill fJe .. . 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
Notre Dame 

the number of students in· volved is large enough to merit the solutions being considered. 
After the extent of the problem is determined, the possible responses must be weighed. Here again, Com­mittee Chairman Father Wil­liam Beauchamp, as well as other members of the com­mittee, will not reveal any of the options under con­sideration. The justification for this is that they do not wish to fuel rumors and speculation. 
This is a fallacy, however. Rumors are already rampant on campus; the committee 


POLITICS 
Mandate's mastered, Cranston's a creep, McGovern's a moron, and Hart is too deep. Jackson can preach, and Hollings can teach, but both are too distant for the White House to reach. Askew and Glenn round out the crew: What (in Stepan's name) should a conservative do? Some say "Forget 'em! Reagan's my man; Mock Conventions are futile­l'djust as soon get a tan." But we must be pragmatic; we must see the right: Moderates and Conservatives should give Liberals a fight. "How about Reubin ?" the untempered scream, not ever waking from their overreaching dream. Ifyou're realistic and not "off the cuff", there's only one man he's the Right Stuff Glenn may not be perfect (next to Reagan he's lame), 
BUT NEVER should a liberal represenl Noire Dame. 
Attend the Glenn Rally 
from 4:30-7:00, 2124, in Alumni's Party Room. Paid by N.D. Con­servatives for lhe Righi Sluff not the Glenn campaign (277-4283) 


its decision. Seven members of the committee are ad­ministrators six are priests or sisters -and one is a faculty member. The two students on the committc;e, are both seniors, so they "'ill not see the changes that will happen. 
No one even knows how the Alcohol Committee will go about making their deci­sion. It may be by consensus, or by majority vote. If the former, the students on the committee can have a large voice in what happens, and at the same time could be held partially resonsible. 
If only a majority of the 
The Observer Friday, February 24, 1984 -page 3 




Sophomore Parents' Weekend begins today 
By DIANNE McBRIAN 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's annual Sophomore Parents' Weekend will kick off tonight with the Sophomore Variety 

Saint Mary's 

Sophomore Parents' 
Weekend 

Schedule of events 
Today 
Registration, LeMans lobbY--······2·6 p.m. Talent Show, Ange'la ..________... S-10 p.m. 
Reception, Angela----··----10·11 p.m. 
Iomorrow Late Registration, LeMans lobby._... .-..---11-12a.m. Sports Festival, Angela ...-----9-12 a.m. Academic Open House, Angela..-...-...-...-....___.....-............-...12-2 p.m. Sophomore Mass, Church of Lorett0----·--·------4 p.m. Qinner-Dance, Century Center---....-.......-..................-..6:30p.m. 
~ ~unday 
B,runch, SAGA.-----...-...........-..9:30 a.m. 
Sbow, to begin at 8 o'clock in the An­gela Athletic Facility, followed by a reception. 

Lee's BBQ 
Available for Private Parties ·Dinner or Beer· call 237·9167 for more info 


Chairman Beth Lavezzorio and her committee have planned a full schedule of events for the weekend, including Saturday's Sports Festivity Day, in which sophomores and their parents can participate in tennis, racquetball, running, or aerobic dance at Angela from 9 a.m. to noon. The Faculty Open House will also be held in Angela from 12:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
The Class Mass for sophomores and their parents will be celebrated at 4 p.m. in the Church ofLoretto. 
Saturday evening there will be a dinner dance at the Century Center. Cocktails will begin at 6 p.m., followed by welcomes from Lavez­zorio and College President John Duggan. Dinner and dancing will last from 8 p.m. to midnight. 
Sunday morning, a Class Brunch, held in the Saint Mary's cafeteria from 9:30-10:30, will close the fes­tivities. 
Lavezzorio said sophomores and their parents are responding to this year's weekend with great en­thusiasm. She estimated that over 900 people will attend the dinner d:mce, which means that over half the class will be participating with their parents. 
Most of the parents will travel to Saint Mary's from parts of the Mid­west and the eastern seaboard, al­though some will make the trip from Hawaii, Texas, and California. 
Lavezzorio is anticipating a suc­cessful weekend and is pleased with the efforts of her co-workers. "Considering the amount of time and work we've put in, I think it'll run smoothly. It should be a memorable occasion for everyone," said Lavezzorio. 

The Student Union and Hall Academic Commissions proudly present 
ACCENT Lecture Series 

*Featuring informal discussions in the dorm from 
N.D. Faculty and administrative members *Watch for it TOMORROW! 

The Observer/Carol Gale.;


Solar home 
BillClifford, afourth yeararcbitecture student, builds a model ofa solar-heated home be isgoing works bard with his tools and design plans as be to enter in a competition. 



SMC above average in graduations 
Special to The Observer "We've had remarkable success in 
keeping our students here," says 
Twenty percent more Saint Saint Mary's College President John Mary's students remain at the Col­M. Duggan. "Our student body is lege through graduation than the na­carefully selected through the ad­tional average for private four-year mission process. Saint Mary's is colleges, according to a study usually the student's first choice. published by the Cooperative In­Our students want to be here. stitutional Research Program and "Our faculty members work the American Council on Education. closely with our students and care 
what happens to them. We work 
Of the freshmen who entered hard to prevent the students from Saint Mary;s in 1978, 70.6 percent getting into academic trouble. We received a bachelor's degree within have a number of checkpoints to four years. At private four-year col­catch students when they slip and leges, 50.5 percent of the freshman help them back up again." class completed requirements for a bachelor's degree on schedule, The retention rate study was a while the figure for private univer­follow-up of a sample of students sities was 48.7 percent. Public four­who took the ACE Freshman Survey year colleges had a retention rate of in 1978. 
31.1 percent, and public universities In another portion of the study, 
graduated 47.5 percent of the fresh­the researchers defined selectivity man class of 1978 on time. levels by mean Scholastic Aptitude 
Test composite score ranges. Col­leges were divided into four categories: nonselective (less than 
950 SAT score), moderately 
selective (950-1024 SAT score), 
selective (1025-1074 SAT score) 
and highly selective ( 1075 and up). 
Researchers place Saint Mary's in the 
selective category, and again the 
College's retention rate compares 
favorably. 
The national figure for colleges in the selective category was 58.4 per­cent, 12 points lower than Saint Mary's rate. 
The researchers also studied which variables contributed most to retention prediction. Positive fac­tors included high school grades, living on campus as a freshman, self­estimate of obtaining a degree in four years, highest degree planned, adequate preparation in science and estimated parental income. 
Max Lerner to discuss presidents 
Special to The Observer sion ofFranklin D. Roosevelt on Feb. 
28. Other programs, all on Tuesday 
Max Lerner, holder of the Welch evenings from 7:30 to 10, are: Chair in American Studies at Notre "Truman and Eisenhower," March Dame, will lead a series of discus­13; "John Kennedy and Lyndon sions on American presidents begin­Johnson," March 27; "Richard ning Feb. 28 in the Center for Nixon," April 10, and "Jimmy Carter Continuing Education. and Ronald Reagan," April24. 
Titled "Wounded Titans: Lerner, for several years editor of American Presidents -Character The Nation and currently writing for and Decisions ( 1933-1983)," the the Los Angeles Times Syndicate and 
five-part series opens with a discus-the New York Post, has known each of the presidents personally. His talks will analyze flaws in their character and leadership. 
Lerner is the author of two major books, America as a Civilization and Values in Education. 
The series is sponsored by Continuing Education and is in­tended as an opportunity faculty members and students to study an issue or idea outside their special field of interest. 
Black Cultural Arts Festival Come and experience entertainment at its best at our student TALENT SHOW 


RENT AVIDEODISC SELECT 3 FREE MOVIES ~~~AL 
VCR SLIGHTLY HIGHER 


Saturday, February 25, 7:00pm Library Auditorium 

Friday, February 24, 1984 -page 4
The Observer 


Shultz worried policy in Lebanon could harm US interests in Mideast 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of 
State George P. Shultz was described 
yesterday as worried that the failure 
of U.S. policy in Lt'"banon could 
c;mst· considt:"rable harm to 
American interests throughout the 
Middle East, and busy developing a 
stratt·gy to rt:asst-rt U.S. influence in 
tht· region. 
One key Shultz aide said he was 
willing to accept the blame for that 
failure -ifsomeone has to take the 
blame -even though President 
Reagan declared that Shultz "has not 
failed" in Lebanon. 
But this official said the Lebanon 
situation "is infinitdy more compli· 
cated than that" and that "all along 
the way, there have been only 
limited options we could take." 
This aide and othn senior State 
Departmt:"nt officials spoke of 
Shultz's views on Lebanon and the 
Middle East only on the condition 
they not bt· idt·ntifkd. 
Events in Lebanon have li.u~led 
speculation that Shultz might not 
stay at the State Department beyond 
this year. 
At his news confcrt.•ncc Wedncs· 
day night, the president dismissed as 
"disgraceful" a [>uggestion by Rep. 
Bill Alexander of Arkansas, the 
deputy Democratic llousc leader, 
that Shultz should resign. 
Reagan said Shultz was not to hlame for events in Lebanon, and declared he would not accept his resignation ifShultz submitted one. 
Aides to Shultz said he won't resign now but they arc uncertain about his plans if Reagan is re­elected. Shultz has not signaled his intentions, even to his closest ad· visers, one l>fthem said. 
The ncar-collapse of the llS.­hacked government of President Amin Gemaycl has been a "personal disappointment" to Shultz, one offi· dal said, adding that Shultz is more concerned about broader issues in the Middle East. 
"lie thinks the stakes arc much greater than pcopk generally ap· predate," said the aide, adding that the question now hdng asked is, "Forget Lebanon, how will it play out in Jordan?" 
Shultz is described as particularly worrinl that Amnican cn·dibility might be eroded throughout the 

Chile 
continued from page 1 
At prest:"nt, the Justice Education Department is attempting to initiate a student-sponsored project at Saint· Mary's. The projel:t would provide for stutknts or faculty in Chik to come to the United States and ex· pt·ricncc freedom here for a period of time. More int(Jrmation about or· ganization of the project will be ~ven at a later date. 
On March 5 at 7:30p.m. tht: <hris­tians and Justice Lecture Series will hold a lecture in Carroll Hall. Fatht:r William L<:wers, the director of In­ternational Justice and Peace of the lhited Stau·s <.:atholic Conference in Washington, will speak to stu· dt·nts about conditions in Central America. 

is taking applications for the positions of 
News Editor  Controller  
Viewpoint Editor  Circulation Manager  
Photo Editor  Advertising Manager  
Features Editor  Production Manager  
Saint Mary's Editor  
Sports Editor  

Submit resume to Bob Vonderheide 3rd Floor LaFortune 
DEADLINE: Feb. 29. 5 p.m. 
The trails are terrific, the scenery's spectacular. the nightlife is super. the food's great. and the peo­ple are warm. Michigan. The perfect place for you and your cross-country skis to get away to. For snow and ski conditions, call our 24-hour toll-free number. 




___.... 
---I
.-----------' I
--'6"
----~-00 oil·pan'l I
r 2 \\em P'z. · er piz.z.a. I \ $"\ • 00 QneG0~~~0~a'l I 
I a~~ \ E.JI.P'res. I 
'\' • oell"erl 8 I ' f85\, free send "'"e. ' \ ,a35 s_o~~~-'1'\5'\ 1 
50 
l\ .---~~ ---39010126 l\

II\' 
' liiiCl1 -. ' 
' ~ ----"'.! ® __J
' _____ .. ------------­
· 

'. -------­
'.....----­
Middle East, with events in Lebanon undermining the confidence of moderate Arab nations in Washing· ton's abiliry to follow through on its commitments. 
One official said Shultz's concern centers on Gemaycl's plan to abrogate the May 17, 1983, troop withdrawal agreement which Shultz helped nt:"gotiate between Lebanon and Israel. Shultz, he said, is worried "over the impact of the failure of a negotiation, a negotiation that was a success, and is now a victim" of the unravelingofU.S. policy in Lebanon. 
Shultz is said to believe that abrogation of the agreement would make a solution that much more dif­ficult to achieve in Lebanon. 
Although it is unclear whether Shultz will stay as secretary of state in any second Reagan term, several high officials at the department have made plans to quit this year. 
~~§ 
WE DELIVER 
.13.U.Ti! 
STOP IN· SIT DOWN• 

& Enjoy our large lS" pizza 
ss·-~()
Special 
For Any 2
applies 
Only Toppings
to Eat-In onlY _reg. '1171 
NO OTHER SPECIALS WILL APPLY 
Fri.-Sat.-Sun. 
THIS OLD HOUSE'\· ,; PIZZERIA & PUB 
~'13l?U~()~' 
UODIXIEWAYN 
277-4519 ROSELAND 277-4519 Saada": Oa ca•passpedlll· Media• 16" OPEN SUNDAY Pizza delivered for $7.95: aav 2 top.... 


' . . . . 
... __,...,_... 4....4·----------------...... --... --... --.---__ .., 
. 't:: . ±' ·. 



~~~~~_()__i_Il___t_.__~-----------Fr-ida-y,_Fe-bru-~-2-4,_19-84--p-ag-eS 
Freshman engineers face impossible schedule 
It's never been so little fun to be a freshman engineer than it is in 1984 at Notre Dame. In the name of saving the country from scientific illiteracy, blue-ribbon panelists -calling themselves educators -have con­vinced the nation that American schools sure don't build 'em like they used to, that Johnny will never be able to read, write or run a computer quite like Ivan, his 
eastern counterpart. 
Here at Notre Dame, the College of Engineering has responded to this pressure with a tougher, more com­prehensive curriculum effective for this year's fresh­men. While the intention to beef-up the curriculum is admirable, freshmen engineers who are serious about their work are finding themselves overworked, over­tested, overquizzed and sleepy. 
First-semester grades for freshmen engineers took a 
nose dive compared to other years, one rector said, and 
58 students (out of561) had dropped out ofthe college 
by February -three times as many as this time last year. 
The freshman engineer is treated to two semesters each of physics, calculus and chemistry. Chemistry lab is taken second semester, and an introductory engineer­ing course is taken during one ofthe semesters. In addi­tion, two semesters are required in English composition and in physical education. Only one class is reserved for a history or social science. 
That adds up to 34 credit hours, one more than the old curriculum. On paper, however, the numbers are deceiving. Physics, an addition to freshman year that replaced a social science elective, had once been reserved for sophomore year when students are better able to handle the calculus involved. It was a four-credit class with weekly tutorials; now it is somehow con­sidered a 3.5-credit course even though the tutorial has expanded to a full-blown lab. 
With the new curriculum, freshmen indicating an in­terest in engineering are pushed head first into the technical world. For some freshmen, it has been a nightmare. Calculus requires daily homework and three semester exams; chemistry includes weekly quizzes; physics has four tests and weekly quizzes; physics lab requires six lab reports; Engineering Concepts requires weekly homework, quizzes, three tests and computer projects that keep freshmen in the computer lab at all hours ofthe day. There are books to read and papers to write in the composition courses, and as as fmal blow, attendance in physical education is mandatory even though the class is worth no credit. . .,.. 
Things -won't get any easier when these freshmen become upperclassmen. Physics was tossed into fresh­man year to make room for more requirements in the engineering curriculum. On the average, the five engineering departments now require six more credit hours with civil and chemical engineering hit the hard­est. In many cases, engineering students will take six technical courses in the same semester, up to 18.5 credits during some semesters. 
It's time to say enough is enough. In the race to make engineers know more about engineering, electives in the liberal arts and business have been forgotten. En­gineers are allowed two free electives in all their four years here. One can certainly question whether en­gineers -especially freshmen -will have the time or energy to meet the new requirements. But more fun­damental, one has to wonder where Notre Dame's pledge to liberal education has gone. 
We sympathize with the College of Engineering's yearning to make the curriculum more demanding and comprehensive. The battery ofchanges, such as requir­ing aerospace engineers to take Heat Transfer or adding one more semester each of organic and physical chemistry to the load ofchemical engineers, together add up to one way of making the Notre Dame engineer more competitive in industry. 
But before jumping on the bandwagon of cramming more into a curriculum than can fit into four years, it must be remembered that engineering is more than just crunching equations and staying up past 2 a.m. The Notre Dame engineer has always been competitive be­cause of the special dimension of education subtly of­fered here. 
We are afraid the new curriculum will keep engineers too busy to realize that. 
-The Observer 


Alcohol ban cannot solve problem 
It is called the Committee on the Respon­sible Use of Alcohol. Its name may sound harmless, but this organization is presently debating changes in policy which could dramatically alter Notre Dame life. Ifthis does 
'RandyFahs 
Friday analysis 
indeed become a dry campus, there will be many repercussions and it may not even make a dent in the·.alcohol abuse problem. In some instances, campus prohibition may actually exacerbate the situation. 
The thing·! find most appalling is that the committee fS"'debating under a veil ofsecrecy. At the first lecture in the Accent Series, the committee chairman, Father William Beauc­hamp, wouldn't even allow an open forum for discussion. He arrogantly replied that there would be "at least a question period, I don't know if we'll give answers or not." 
America prides itself on being a nation which encourages frank and open exchanges between the government and the governed. The University's leadership prefers to ignore these time honored practices. The Ad­ministration continues to make campus policy in the secrecy of their ivory tower (or should I say Golden Domed Cloister?). 
It is irrese9J!.Slbl£J.o make such decisions without a deepstuOy of the problem. Such a study should involve campus surveys to find the nature of the alcohol problem, its extent, and what might be done to curb its ill effects without spawning new and unwanted conse­
quences. 
The people conducting and analyzing this study should come from a cross section ofad­ministrators, faculty members and students. In addition, this panel should be heavily laden with people trained in addressing alcohol­related problems. 
The mere fact that someone is an ad­ministrator, a student body president, or a priest, does not make them qualified to be an expert on problems of alcohol abuse. Also, one wonders what this committee is trying to hide behind their wall ofsecrecy. 
It wouldn't surprise me a bit ifthe commit­tee came to a decision and sprung it on the campus at a time when students would be unable to respond effectively. Notre Dame does not like public outcry or demonstrations against official University policy. 
The decision probably will be made public 
immediately prior to break or exam week. At 
these times the students would be paralyzed 
by other concerns and unable to mount a 
unified an!;~, credib!c;,p~;~st. """'­
The time for action is now, not after a deci­sion has been reached. While debate is still going on, the minds ofthe people on the com­mittee can be swayed, but after a public state­ment has been released, the policy will become frozen in the minds ofthe administra­
tion and change will become nearly impos­
sible. 
Our student leadership is partially 
paralyzed with Brian Callaghan being given a 
gag rule by the committee. His co;optation is 
not his own fault. It is better that he be in on 
the meetings to communicate his personal 
views as a student, than to have no student 
representative at all. 
We need a unified voice and I suggest that it 
come from the residence halls by way of Hall 
Presidents' Council. This group can coor­
dinate and articulate what the student want. 
To ease the problem of alcohol abuse we need a three-pronged approach: 1 ) There has to be an i'ncreased awareness of alcohol and the effects of its abuse. 2) Encourage the responsible use ofalcohol in social settings. 3) Identify and help those people who have alcohol-related problems. A dry campus will accomplish none ofthese things. 

p • 0 • BoxQ 

The Ohsentex-
P. 0. BoxQ,NotreDame,IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ,of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letter~t;jn~d~ Column present the views oftheir authors. Column space is available t5~ei'S ~or1he commun'ity, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
21 campus 
DearEditor: 
Presently I am shocked over the rumor that 
the University of Notre Dame is going to 
become a 21 campus. I grieve for the ND/SMC 
students, who are likely to be killed or serious­
ly injured because ofthis decision. 
Surely the committee does not expect stu­
dent s under 21 years of age to sit in their 
rooms on a Saturday night sipping soda and 
watching the ever-stimulatingDukes ofHaz­
zard. 
In making their decision they were ob­
viously concerned with both the alcoholic 
and the abusive drinker. However, with the new policy, I sincerely believe that the num­ber of these will not diminish. Instead of , confining themselves to their dorm and room, 
EditorialBoard 
Edttor-tn-Chief............................... David Dziedzic Managing Editor....................... Margaret Fosmoe ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn News Edttor................................. Bob Vonderheide News Editor....................................Mark-Worscheh Saint Mary's Editor.................. Anne Monastyrski SportsEditor ................................. Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor................................ Keith Picher features Edilor...............................Sai-ah Hamilton Photo Editor......................~ ................... Scott Bower 
these people will climb into their cars and take to the streets, creating a far more dan­gerous situation for a far greater number of people, including the innocent. 
The University may become indirectly the butchers of its own ND family. I regret that I cannot offer any solution to the alcohol abuse problem, however, I know that a 21 campus is a step in the wrong direction. 
I know that next year I will certainly join the mobs of students heading off-campus to get to the social life. (Which is not, contrary to the committee's conception of student social life, synonymous with excessive drinking.) 
All I can say is that I hope to God that it will not be my parents who are awakened at 4:30 in the morning by a phone call informing 
them  that  their son  has been  killed by  a  
drunken motorist.  
john M. Cooney  

DepartmentManagers 
Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen Controller...............................................Alex Szilvas Advertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole Circulation Manager .........................Mark Miotto .s:vstems Manager..... .......Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Showcase 
Friday, February 24, 1984 -page 6 
Letters to a Lonely God The Christian soldier  
by Rev. Robert Griffin features columnist  
During Vit-tnam, I did my share ofprotesting, beating the drum for pt.·ace, passing out roses at Mass. I was supporting young people whose anger with the war was greater than my own. I was also a campus minister answerahle to ROTC <:adets who had consciences too. Ididn't want them to feel rejected hecause oftheir opinions ofa controversial war. Stt.·ve, who had lost a hrother in Vietnam, belonged to Army ROTC in the yetrs after the war. lie loved to write articles defending the "just war" theory, the idea of the "Christian soldier." and the ap­propriateness of having ROTC at Notrt· Dame; unfortunately, he did it badly, hn:aust.· he was a long-winded hore. I hated being lectured on how an oftlcer looks after tht.· welfare of his men. A twenty-year old has no right to he so pompous. Steve, after a tour ofduty in Korea, left the army, convinced that wht.·n war came. we would lose to the Russians. Latcly, in reading, I've run across ideas that remind mt.· ofSteve. I'm ready with the topics fi>r a convnsation with Steve, ifhe lets me get in a word nlgt.·wisc. World War I. which killed I 7 million people, dividt.·d the world in­to "hdi>re" and "after," converting the spiritual landscape into Eliot's Wastcland. At the Battle of the Somme, the British walked upright toward the (;erman line, each man carrying 66 pounds of t'quipmt.·nt. Tht· t•nemy cut tht·m down with machine guns. A Ger­man eye witness said: "Th~: British cam<..' walking, as though they wne going to the theater. We ft.· It they were mad." It was simply a massacrt.·. The hattie was costly in illusions too. The cream ofBritish manhood was shattered in less than six hours. A foot soldier said: "From that moment all my religion died." Faulkner, accepting the Nohl'l Prizt.·, said: "Man must teach him­self that the basest ofall things is to be afraid; and, teaching himself that, forget it fi>rt.·ver, leaving no room in his workshop for anything hut the old verities ofthe heart: love, honor, pity, pride, compassion, sanifice..." Freeman Dyson, writing in last week's "New Yorker." notes: pacifist movements flourished after WWI; disarmament programs enjoyed wide support. The fear ofa repetition ofWWI was almost universal. But, human beings are not willing to let their lives be ruled Vt.'f)' long by fear. Pride, anger, and impatience are stronger passions than fear. Adeep force in the human spirit drives us to fight for our freedom and hang the consequences. Even the fear of nuclear holocaust is not strong enough to prevail against this force. Ifwe want to save the world from nuclear war, we must begin win­ning over the soldiers. It is not enough to organize scientists, physicians, clergymen, or even mothers. We need to persuade the soldiers in all countrit.'s that they cannot fight decently with nuclear wt·apons. The elimination of nukes must be presented as a response to the demands ofmilitary honor and selfrespt·ct. not fear. Ifsoldiers <.:an be turned against nuckar weapons, then civilians and politicians will be ahk to campaign ti>r disarmament without being considered cowardly or unpatriotic. Warriors have a tradition of marching into battk to defend the honor of the tribt·. Pacitlsm is another tradition with a long, honorahle history. The Quakers, allowing no authority to eome be­twet·n tht· conscience and (;od. refuse to bear arms. The great adlievt·ment of the Quakers was tht· abolition ofslavery. It was not the work of Quakers alone, hut th~: earlkst agitators wer1: mostly Quakt·rs. A recently puhlisht·d book tells the story ofa French village that d10se the path of nonviolent resistance against Hitler. A German major, who happt.·nnl to he a Catholic, spared the village, afterwards saying: "This kind ofresistance had nothing to do with violence, no­thing to do with anything we could destroy with violence." You die for your hdids. apparently uselessly, but your death reaches out and touches your enemies. so that they ht·gin to hchave like human ht'ings. Some of your t'nt·mies arc convcrtt·tl into friends. Finally t·vcn the most hardened ofvour enemies are persuaded to stop their killing. It happt·nt·tllikt· th;;t, once upon a time in a French village. c;t·orgt· Bernard Shaw put tht· question at the t•nd of his play "Saint Joan": "0 (iod that madst this beautiful earth, when will it he ready to rcn·ivt· Thy saints~ How long, 0 Lord. how long?" Ifwe have to tight wars anti muster armies, Iwould preferofficers who had the advantages ofa Christian education. I always agreed with Steve that ROTC rightfully belongs at Notre Dame.  

I I 
t 




estiva 
(Ji 


the fall. The various evening recep­
tions after each author's reading, will be held in dorms, affording stu­
by Doug Murphy 
features staff writer 
dents the opportunity to talk to the 
I
n what should be the dead of win­
ter, comes a week as revitalizing as 
the first day over 30 degrees -the 
Sophomore Literary Festival! 
Starting this Sunday and continu­
ing through Saturday March 3. Notre 
Dame will play host to six tlgurc:s of 
the literary world:john Engels, Leon 
Forrest. Mary lloward.Joei Oppen­
heimer. Chaim Potok and Ntozake 
Shange. These authors will read 
from their works, hold informal 
workshops with students, ami 
mingle with students and others at 
receptions held in their honor. The 
entire University community is 
invited to these events. This year's 
guests will join such hallowed 
names as Norman Mailer, Kurt Von­
negut, \'filliam Buckley, anti George 
Plimpton. There is no admission 
charge at any of the events. 
As the name may signifY, the Soph­omore Literary Festival is organizt.'d entirely by sophomores. Planning begins almost a year in advance. The students contact the authors, set up transportation, accommodations, meals and receptions; they are responsible for the whole show. This year, the planningcommittee is composed ofa core ofeight sopho­mores, who direct approximatt:ly 30 other students in planning the fes­tival. 
Christine Harrington and Patrick Manson typifY the enthusiasm on the committee. One of Harrington and Manson's goals for the 1984 festival is to make the show more accessible to the student body at large. 
"We're having the receptions on 
campus in the halls this year. In the 
past they were held off-campus. This 
way, students will be encouraged to 
attend," Harrington said. 
"We would like to play up the idea 
of the 'festival,' with plenty ofexcit­
ment and spirit," added Manson. 
dance. 
Many different things will he at­
tempted at this year's Festival. 
Heather O'Shea, chairwoman ofthe 
planning committee, will oversee 
special publicity projects aimed at 
gaining a greater awareness ofthe 
event among students. 
" The basic drawing classes of 
Professors Moira Geoffion and Dale 
Mainer were especially helpful to·us. 
We can't wait to reveal their work," 
Harrington reported. 
Now in its seventeenth year, the festival began in I967 as the result one sophomore's interest in William Faulkner. The student organized faculty presentations on Faulkner that year. The next year, actual literary tlgures were invited to share their works, and each year since then, the Festival has grown in size and sophistication. Ifthe enthusiasm and dedicaton ofthe sophomore planning committee is any in­dicaton, this year's festival should be one ofthe best yet. 
A host of new ideas and presenta­tions have been added to the schedule. Saturday, March 3, for ex­ample, will feature students reading from their own works, chosen through a campus-wide contest in 




Joel Oppenheimer 
A
lthoughjoel Lester Oppenheimer admits that he has been in­fluenced hy Olson Creeley and Alan Ginsberg, both who have ap­peared at previous Sophomore Literary Festivals, he claims that William Carlos Williams has been his main mentor. Oppenheimer was born in Yonkers, N.Y. and attended Cornell University, the Uni­versity ofChicago and Black Mountain College. Since 1969 he has been a poet-in-residence at the City College of New York. He was formerly the editor ofKulccher and contributes regularly to The Village Voice. Oppenheimer is probably best known for his poetry in which he often employs a dialogue or monologue scheme featur­ing the vernacular. To his credit are several collections ofpoetry: The LOl'e Bit and OtherPoems, Sin1entes on a Sad Occurrence, The Woman Poems andNames, Dates, andPlaces. He has written a play, "The Great American Desert,'' and a short story, "Pan's Eyes." authors in a more informal setting. The d.iferent workshops, as well, will he a chance to question the 



LeonFo1 
L
eon Forrest is not one to limit him resume he can describe himself as playwright, and a novelist. Presently I University. Forrest com·es from the: R school ofwriters and frrquently emil consciousnessstyle ofprose. His maj More Ancient Than Edlm and The Bl recent publication is titled Two Win 

A 
native ofNewjersey, Ntozake Sha• and received a Masters ofArts Southern California. She has taught Rice University. Presently she is ton. Shange broke into the literary wrote a collection ofpoems titledFor sideredSuicide/When the Rainbow is plores the evucyday trials ofblack performed "Fn11Colored Girls" in a then it has been adapted for Broadway. titledSassafras, Cypress, andIndigo. 
Friday, February 24, 1984 -page 7 




iterary marve s 
authors more in depth about their works, and also, let the authors talk oftheir particular styles ofwriting. These, along with other innovations, look to create a true "festival" at­mosphere in 1984's Sophomore Literary Festival. 
to one genre. On his 
journalist, editor, poet, 
e is teaching at Northwestern 
lph Ellison/Toni Morrison the stream-of­includeThere is a Tree Orphans. His most to Veil My Faith. 


John Engels 

T
he son ofNotre Dame graduate Norbert Engels,John Engels also attended NO. Having earned a Masters ofFine Arts degree from the University oflowa in writing, the younger Engels now teaches at Saint Michael's College in Burlington, Vt. Recently he was awarded the New England Review and Bread Loaf Quarterly 1983 Narrative Poetry Prize, and aNational Endorsement for the Arts Fellowship for 1984. Engels' major works include: The Homer Mitchell Place, Sig­nals From the Safety Coffin, Blood Mountain, and Vivaldi in Early Fall. 
·,·nJH; .,.,,. 



Chaim Potok 

D aised as an OrthodoxJew, Chaim Potok draws from his ancestry ftfor his writing. In The Chosen and The Promise he relates the tribulations ofa young)ewish boy. His strength lies in the univer­
sality ofhis messange; however, he does not restrict the reader to a closed world. Potok earned a Bachelor ofArts degree in English at Yeshiva University and studied at theJewish Theological Seminary ofAmerica. He has served as national director of the Leaders Train­
ing Fellowship and was awarded a Ph.D. in philosophy from the Uni­versity ofPennsylvania BesidesThe Chosen and The Promise, Potok has also writtenMy Name is Asher Lev, In the Beginning and The Book oflights. 

Mary Howard 
M 
ary Howard is a short story writer. Her most well-known work is a short story titled "Father Me, Father Me Not." A collection ofshort stories published under the same title is also to her credit. Howard is a professor at Iowa State University. 

Schedule of events 
Sunday, Feb. 26 Ntozake Shange, readlng-------7:30, Washington HaD Reception (after reading)·----------------Keenan Hall 
Monday, Feb. 27 Joel Oppenheimer, reading ________7:30, Ubnuy Auditorium Reception (after reading)______________ Farley Hall 
Tuesday, Feb. 28 Oppenheimer, workshoP----------------12:00, Ubrary Lounge Ch,ai"_!,Potok, rea~¥'9.--~;;--------.---7:30, Washington Hall 
Reception (after reading) __________________Walsh Hall 
Wednesday, Feb. 2.9 John Engels, readlng __________________7:30 Ubrary Auditorium 
Reception (after reading) -----Pasquerllla East 
Thursday, March 1 
Engels, workshop ------------------------12:00, Ubrary Lounge Mary Howard, reading __________________ 7:30, Ubrary Auditorium 
Reception (after reading)---------------Keenan Hall 
Friday, March 2 
Howard, workshop -------------------------12:00, Ubrary Lounge leon Forrest, reading ___________________7:30, Ubrary Auditorium 
Reception (after reading)------------------Pasquerilla West 
Saturday, March 3 Forrest, workshoP-------------------12:00, Ubrary Lounge Notre Dame Night (student readlngs)·-----7:30, Ubrary Auditorium Party·-----------------------------------------Farley Hall 
,._ All receptions and the party are In the halls' party rooms. 

(1) 1. 99 Luftballoons, Nena 
(2) 2. Send Me An Angel,Rea! Life 
(3) 3. Girls Just Want To Have 
Fun, Cyndi Lauper (-) 4. Can't Give Your Love, Caspar 
(7) 5. When The Lights Go Out, Naked Eyes 
(6) 6. fl1ajor Tom, Peter Schilling (-) 7. IfI Had You Back, Rubinoos 
(9) 
8. Talking In Your Sleep, Romantics 

(4) 
9. In A Big Country, Big Country 


10. Runner, Manfred Mann 
Girls Who Have Con-
I. 

~ 
1 
Friday, February 24,, 1984; ..._ pa~e 8 
t 
...--.. -.-.··---...--....--_... -. -'"' ..... , .... -·-.......... -.. ---., .. --.....·... ---... -----· .. --........... -.. --... --.......... -......... -... ­
!I 


Sports Briefs 
Cheerleaders wishing to try out for the 1984-85 squad must attend a meeting on Monday, Feb. 27, at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The captain of next year's team will be Bill Thallemer. Call him at 2:B-4331 for more details. -The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for February ~R. Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to Dennis Stark the day before the meet or the interhall office, C2, ACC. For more information on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Obsen,er 
Start training for the IrishSpringRun, a six 
mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golfcourse. It is coming up after spring break. Trophies, T-shirts, and prizes will be awarded. 
-The Obsen,er 

An NVA track meethas been scheduled for Thursday, March I. Field events will begin at 6:30p.m. and track events will start at 7:45. -The Observer 
Upcoming deadlines for NVA sports are in interhall baseball, interhall 12" softball (men's and women's), grad softball, and women's interhall soccer. The deadline to sign up for all ofthese events is March 9.-The Obseroer 
A Broomball Brawl, sponsored by NVA, will take place on March 10 from 3:45-5:45. There will be open skating and a broomball tournament. Skates may be rented for one dollar and there will also be a snack stand. Turn in broomball rosters to the NVA office by March 7. -The Obseroer 
. . f 
Joe Crlbbs to remain withUSFL 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -A federal judge said yesterday that running backJoe Cribbs, formerly with the Buffalo Bills ofthe National Football League, will be allowed to remain with the Birmingham Stallions of the United States Football League. 
Judge john T. Elfvin oflJ.S. District Court told reporters, "I have decided that the Buffalo Bills have not sustained the burden ofshowing (the contract) language means something other than it said." 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until .3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is .3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five cparac­

Classifieds 
ters erda . 
NOTICES 
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE 277·6045 WILL PICK UP & DELIVER 

ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT· HERSI Surfs up but our prices •ren,'t. From )uet $109.00 -spend 7 fun-filled dllyaln sunny 1 ·ortds. T C•ll for yourHif or org8nlze • .m•ll group and tr•vel FREEl Greet f, • clubs, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) J6&.2006, ..k for An­nette. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS. COKER 233·7009. 
Are you in need ol FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Tra1n1ngl Challenge' Ad· venlurel SCHOLARSHIPS! ARMY ROTC I See LTC Bob Sk1nner or CPT Anne R1eman in lhe ROTC Bwld1ng (239· 6264). 
ENOUGHIll Hey guys, cool it with the sweats and 1ack· ets. okay? It was ONLY lhe L1berty Bowll 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL IS COMING SOON I STAY TUNED TO THIS BAT CHANNEL FOR MORE DETAILS. 
Bet1er call the luneral home--It looks like another SLOW DEATH 
NEED CASH? Eem $500& e11eh achool ya8r, 2-4 (fleXIble) hours per WHk piiiCing •nd filling poetera on c""'pua. Serious workera only; -give recom­mendations. 1-800-243-ll8711. 
"DAYTONA BEACH. MARCH 17-24. Spend Spring Breek getting • ten In Sunny Florida. I O.ya/7 Nights at the INTERNATIONAL INN on the beech for only $1311 per penon. For lnfonnetlon and reMrvetlons cell SUMMIT TOURS 
1 -800-325-0439. 
buzz--The Wasteland.. APRIL... lor a 1w1st I had Kunta Kinta help me translate II 1nto Mend1nko. remember, 2 lingers lor peace,3forwar. yourN.F fnend. F.P.W. 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST: SILVER WATCH WITH GOLD SCREWS. POLEI./QUARTZ WITH ROMAN NUMERALS MAY HAVE BEEN LEFT IN ROCK. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL CONNIE 4526 
FOUND GOLD STRAP WATCH · 2 WEEKS AGO NEAR THE ROCK. IN· QUIRE AT LOST ANO FOUND OR CALL 2638768 
LOST: ONE PEARL NECKLACE IN ACC MONOGRAM ROOM. CALL CINDY 283-21156. 
LOST: N,D. KEY CHAIN (4 KEYS) SATURDAY 2/18 BETWEEN 3:30 & 7 PM. BETWEEN THE ARCHIE BLDG. AND GRACE HALL. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 1641 EDDY. 
LOST: CHEAP LITTLE CAMERA at JPW D1nner Salurday night n·s brown and beige, it has a bu!H·in flash. and His held logether by a piece of tape. Bul it has some JPW photos on the film 1nside. II lound, please call Gib at 1682. 
FOUND: A maroon and gray plaid wool scarf at the Eng~neenng Auditonum after 'The Chosen ... Call Patrick at 1754. 
lost: TAN CASHMERE SWEATER on Feb. 21 also a CASIO CALCULATOR WATCH at the GMAT tesls In the Engineenng Aud1tor1um Please call Ron al2n-6452 11 Found, REWARD 
FOUND: What looka like e car key by the ArchHectur•l Bldg. C•ll P•ul Bundachuh at 31 Olto Identify •nd It'a 
yours. 
YOI To he who accidentally took my green Notre Dame windbreaker from 'iemor Bar on Wednesday, 2-22: 1. You'll lind my name on the back ol lhe tag. 2. I can lurther positively idenlily it. II you would like lo return n. call Chip at x8728 or drop 11 off at the Lost & Found in the Adm. BUilding. u·would be greatly appreciated. 
FOUND: Cross pen and pencil set be· tween P.W. and Flanner call 3181 and descnbe. 
Found: One scientific calculator in 122 Hayes-Healy Call3626 to 1dentify. 
LOST a pa1r ol molal-framed glasses in red case If found, call 6973 
··~·:II' .. 

LOST: Silver Class Ring with Red Stone Inscription T JM Call Beaver 8348 
LOSTILOST!LOST! MEN'S RED VELCRO WALLET AT ACC DURING JPW COCKTAIL DANCE CALL CHIP 8831 
FOUND A PAIR OF GLASSES, IN CASE, NEAR KEENAN'S SIDE DOOR. IF YOU CAN READ THIS, CALL 3234 TO IDEN· TIFY AND CLAIM 
HEY JOE C. I FOUND YOUR SEAL BEACH FACT BOOK IN THE SHOWERS OF P.E. CALL 3684 ASK FOR BETTY 
LOST: BR00KS BROTHERS SWEATER. PINK AND SLIP-OVER, I LOST IT A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO OR EARLIER. PLEASE CALL BUDDY AT 8278 ANYTIME. 
............,.... 

. .... -.., ... LOST: NO SCHOOL RING, lOK GOLD WITH SMOOTH BLUE STONE, IN­SCRIPTION 'AVE MARIA WNM 84' REWARO UPON RETURN. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 8278 OR RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND DEPT. IN ADMIN. BLDG. THANK YOU. 
FOR RENT 

FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3604/288-0955. 
NEED 2 RESPONSIBLE, FESTIVE. HOUSEMATES. 1/2 BLK. FROM BARS AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS $75/MO 287-9252 BEFORE 9AM/AFTER 12AM 
Male needed to share PEACEFUL. com­lortable, cheap, apt.. very close to campus, wHh 2 others. 289-2072. 
WANTED 

SOPHMORESI lnteresled 1n becoming an Army Officer? lnlerested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Sk1nner or CPT Anne R1eman 1n I he ROTC Building (239· 6264) 
Need ndes lo Oayton·a for Spnng Break. Call Cindy 4407 SMC 
Need a ride to Chicago (Fiossmore/Homew od or lhereaboutsl) on Frld•y aher 5 p.m. Please call Lisa 7953 
Now accepting applications at LEE'S BBQ.Mus1 be 21. Come in or Call 
OFF-CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? WE NEED ANOTHER ROOMMATE! CALL CHIP OR DAilE 8631 
HeiSdlng Het?Need ride to Toledo (exit 4 or 5)11~~n:h 1-4.Call K•ren at 1174 
FOR SALE 

Want to know what's really go~ng on 1n the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOUC REPORTER, the only newspaper ol the U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a tree sample copy, call Paul al277-4851 
Audlovox lrHiaah AM·FM cassette. Jensen 4 1/2 convertible speakers. Never used. $100.00. 239-7516 ·Susan. 8-5. 
Rossi skis Tyolea bindings New and unused AI room 109 Keenan OC 2729749 
Mercury Capri-1974-lor sale, needs much body wort< but drives well-$300.00, Cathy at 233·2681. 
Canon AE-1 with telephoto lena, 50 mm lena, and Flash 200.00 Call Jim at 
272-5289. 
TICKETS 
MARQUETTE TIX? I need two student tickets to lhe Marquette game. Please call 1388 
SAVEALIFEIII My lalher will KILL me il I don't come up with Marque«e tickets for him and his visiting friends He's VERY popular, but also very wealthy, so money is no problem. Call Jamie at 8704. Thanx. 
$$$ Need 3 MARQUETTE ticketsI Call Laura x81 30 $$$ 
HELP! I NEED 2 MARQ. TIX. MAKE GOBS OF$, CALL ED AT 1542 
HELP. I NEED 2MU GA'S. CALL DAVE AT1801. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX. BILL 1059 
NEED MARQUETTE TIXCall Chip 8631 
NEED MARQJETTE TIX Call Sheila 3484 
MARQ TIX: need 3badly. Call Pat x3537 
NEED TWO MARQUETTE TICKETS. CALL BILLATx!763. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Marqll!tte. Please 
call Dave, x1765. 
TED HESBURGH IS A fellow who would help me If he could, but I need a pair ol MarqlBtte tickets, and my old pal seems to be oli of town again. If YOU can help me, I'm sure Ted would really ap­preciate it (if you know what I mean). Call Ed at 277·4851 or 284-5333. Go ahead -make my day. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX $$$ CALL KATHY 1284. 
II you have MARQUETTE tickets. I need lhem. Call John at 1208. 
HELPII 1\eed three GAs lor Marquette Game. Please call3211. 
WILL PAY $60 I! NEED 2 MU-NO GA'S CALL DAN 1603 URGENTIIIIII 
NEEDED: 5 Commencement Tickets. Call Susan 311 1. 
I NEED MARaJETTE TIX --8046 
I WOULD LIKE A TICKET TO MAR­QUETTE. CALL MIKE AT 801 5. 
NEED MARQUETTE STU'S AND GA'S CALL TOM 6591 MIKE 8565 
HELP! I desperately need Marquette tickets! II you can help me out call Kathleen at 284· 4420 
Need 2 Marquette stu tix, call Ken 234· 0263 before Saturday 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 

FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SENO A BELLYGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK' PH. 272-1858 
Amy, 1 day until Leonard 
BOOKSTORE FEVER . . Catch it! 
ORIOLES FEVER. ..catch IIIII 
ND beer bongs made to order. SMC 
5485. 

ASPEN for Spring Break! call Joe McBride 8877 
Those who play with apples gel burned .. 
Save the egg.. Save lhe egg.. EGG DROP CONTEST tuesday February 28 Info. in C. E. office, rm. 156 Filz. Save The Egg... 
BOX FOUND -on Phily bus returmng from fall break, contains girl's shoes,dishes,elc. Call8877 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CATCH ITIIIIIII 
a suspension of realily ned v feb. 25 
ATTENTION NORTHEASTERNERSIIn­tereetlld In living on the New Jersey shore thla summer? Roome may be avallable ... call Pet at 8762. 
LEE'S BBQ ANNUAL RAFFLE. 1st prize 6 Rib tip dinners. 2nd prize 6 Mini tip din· ners. For sale at Lee's or from NO/Lee's employees. 
Boeton club spring break bus sign-ups ($1 15 or $50 non-refundable deposit mandatory) Feb. 28 al 7 p.m. in LaFortune. Firat come, flret servlld. 
Thla may be your last chance .•• 
to see I he lady lrlah in action this year! 
The final home game ol the 1983·1984 season is tonight at 7:30, Come on oul and support .the team. especially seniors Jenny Klauko and Theresa Mullins I 
GIRLS--Need someone to warm you on those long. cold nights? Call our service at 3727. 
UFE IN THE SPIRIT SEMINAR. To help people open their lives to the Holy Spirit. 7:30p.m. In the Log Chapel lor seven con­secutive Fridays (except break), begin­ning this week. No charge. For inquiries or registration, call232-5689. 
KOZAK Kozak is a man-god! 
LISA, LETS DO IT UP THIS WEEKEND, ITS ABOUT TIME THE THREE OF US GOT TOGETHER AGAIN, WE NEED TO DO IT MORE OFTEN, LOOKING FOR· WARD TO IMBIBING WITH YOU, LIKE USUAL, LOVE MO. 
NEED RIDERS TO D.C./NO.VA. FOR SPRING BREAK CALL JAMES AT 1485 
I LOST a dll1'k blue Jacket with red plaid lining somewhere in LaFortune late Tues­day night. My name is in it--J. F. Whalen. Please call Joe at 8423 if you find ~­
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR BERT, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOUII. .. LOVE, ERNIE 
TOOAY'S THE DAY N.D. HAS BEEN WAITING FORI TODAY MARKS THE BIRTH OF THE ONE AND ONLY "LOVE MACHINE". N.D. WILL NEVER BE THE SAME I I'LL BUY YOU A POPSICLE TO WARM-UP ON. (GUESS WHO?) 
PIZZA MONSTER Hope your day is a good one. I love you. SCRUFFY LITTLE PUPPY 
ATTN DAVE DELAHANTY! This is lhe PERSONAL that you have been waiting lor! On the gala occasion of your 19th birthday, we. the OLD ladles of Lyons, decided to spend our hard-earned cash on this illustrious ad. So, LIVE IT UPII From the women on the REAL quad. Liz, Molly, and Sharon. P.S. We expect invites lo any or all BIRTHDAY BASHESIII 
WHO SHOULD SPEAK AT COM· MENCEMENT THIS YEAR? A) POPE JOHNPAULII B) LEE IACOCOA C) HAROLD B. AUGUSTINE '59 (A WET CAMPUS IS A HAPPY CAMPUS) WHO SHOULD BE THE NEXT PRESI­DENT OF THE UNITED STATES? A) RONALD REAGAN B) WAL TEA MONOALE C) HAROLD B. AUGUSTINE '59 (A WET CAMPUS IS A HAPPY CAMPUS) 
WHO HAD THE BEST DREAM? A) SIG· MUNDFREUD B) MARTIN LUTHER KING 
C) HAROLD B. AUGUSTINE '59 (A WET DREAM IS A HAPPY DREAM) 
Oh Happy Dayll It's your Birthday PaUl Happy Birthdayll From K. 
MARY PACE!! The Observer screwed up your first personal, so the second one is cheap. Happy Day Aher Your Birthday Love. Us 
PARTY NINE-STYLE TONIGHT! 
CJ Why am I so faithful, why are YOU so loose? Kwlcka 
THE STABLES AND BEACHES ARE CLOSED! And ya know there are some girls out there I didn'l even see. Why don't 50 or 60 or ya come over to 154 Momssey and love HOG'S bundune. C'mon. He needs some birthday spankings. 
If .. Happy Birthday! The 1-Twlns shall return! Don't forget to maxim ize aggres· sian and minimize ...! 12 
Q, Why can't you tell Louis and John apart? A. Because lhey both always have their head up Father Thomas' you-know­what. 
To Whom II May Concern: Perhaps 11 is I he same thing that crawled up under your mother's nose and died. Cordially, MOT 
DR WHO. you leff me in So.Bend, not So.Croyden! Help I 
WANTED Several days wilhoul abuse in classilieds. Call Karen or Paul 
LOST: Roommate JOE ROVEDA. Pos· sible kidnapping by Badin wench If lound please call1352 
to lhe 'good thing'· Have a nice day. silly. -one of those 'blind bats' 
TOM HALPIN I AM STILL WAITING FOR THE FLOWER TRICK, LOVE BOY GEORGE 
PERHAPS DR. WHO NEEDS THE SERVICES OF A YOUNG, AT· TRACTIVE, FEMALE GEOGRAPHER? WHERE SHOULD QUALIFIED PEOPLE APPLY? 
VOICE YOUR OPINION ABOUT THE ALCOHOL POUCY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE! At the Marquette game: Shout ·we Are ... Not Oryl" after every Fight Song. Pick up your signs ooutside Gate 
10. -Students for Continued Responsible Drinking. 
Need Marquette Tix ..Will pay big $1 Call Mark at 6815. 
The Scannerman says "Be H•ppyl" 
THE LAWS OF MR. GOOOWENCH ... LAW NO. 7 (NO Male Inebriation law) AI an SYR, a male's inebriation level is directly proportional to how bad his date looks. 
ENGINEERS· FREE PIZZA AND 
BEVERAGES IN THE BP PARTY ROOM 
FREE BEVERAGES FOR ALL EN· 
GINEERS... GET INTO THE SPIRIT OF 
EGWEEK 
CONNIE "BONZO" NYTES RUMOR HAS IT THAT YOU'RE THE NEATEST KID IN TOWN BUT REMEMBER REVENGE IS SWEETI 
CONRATULA TIONS TO BOB DIRKSEN FOR KEEPING A HEART ON !fOR 10 STRAIGHT DAYS. WE KNO}II IT'S HARD, BUT KEEP IT UP, BOBI 
DR. WHO · Sarah Jane has relurned to England. I. the blood Romana. have been sent in her place. If interested •n finding rre, call264·4107 after Feb 27. 
To the Philly Kid I've got lhd mus1c 1n me! Love SMALL WONDER 
Eck and Morialily, Friendship isn'l supposed to be so hard. 
HOWLANDIII EG OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARDIIII WHY?? WHY NOTII 
WORSCH: JUST A FEW HOURS BEFORE YOU FINALLY TURN LEGALI ANY LAST MINUTE THOUGHTS? REMEMBER 1 YEAR AGO TODAY? HOW, OH HOW, CAN WE TOP IT? HAVE A GREAT ONE, WOMANI 
-Commodore 
KP A MOOSE-Wench: Someth1ng lo p1ck up mooses wilh? MJ 
John L1ebert Sum~ay night Gym2ACC 7p.m. PlayoffsI 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY LISA Remember its the lhought lhal counts. S1gned.. A Leading Nutntionist. 
RACHEL has been warning us lor a month and it has finally happened. She's lurned 19! Birthday kisses w111 be ac­cepted at 218 Badin. 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS The 84 day COUNTDOWN party IS almost here! SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
Wondra,--You'"' right. I'm not a God, bul a savior. Who needs a South Bend Townie anyway? ..·-SPAL 
SPAL---You really know how to show your Gaylordian stupidily--l'm not from S.B., but rom Mishawaka .. wondra. Queen of the Indiana Plains 
Whatever happened to Charles Manson? 
THE CHERNENKO DEATH POOL Entries are now being accepted for the Konetantln Chernenko Deeth Pool. Guess the date and cause of Cher­nenko's next public viewing (paet, present, or Mure). The winner will receive a free trip to Red Squ•re for the funeral proceulon. Mall •II entries to Senator Jesse Helma, Washington, 
D.C. Act now before It's too late ­m•ybe It alreiSdy Ia. 
I am a lonely white male impnsoned 1n my Pangborn cell. I am six leal lall. 175 pounds, and would like lo oorrespond wrth anyone at this school. I haw only lhree more years to spend at Notre Dame and am willing to discuss any matter w1th any person, male or female or D•llonite. Please send all correspondence to 420 Pangborn. Address it to John Murphy or any other Irish name that you deSire 
Whatever happened to Mary's D1Hards? 
CONGRATULATIONS !II ALL MY LOVE 
TO THE 84-65 R.A'S IN PASOUERILLA 
WEST. WAY) TO GO JULIANNE, 
MARTHA. CINDY AND KATHY Ill LOVE GREG 
····t 
JOE AND LEN --TO THE BEST FRIENDS ANYONE COULD EVER ASK FOR. YOU GUYS ARE THE GREATEST II! YOU DESERVE ONLY THE BEST Ill THANKS FOR ALWAYS BEING THERE ... YOUR BUDDY 'A' I! I 
Warriors 
continuedfrom page 12 
success during the second halfofthe season, adding 7.3 points per game. 
Leading Marquette's attack from the backcourt is 6-6 sophomore Ker­ry Trotter. Trotter, who also sees some playing t time as a forward, is the team's second-leading scorer, with an 11.4 average. He also has helped out the Warriors from the line, hitting 74 percent of his free throws. 
Trotter's mate at the guard posi­tion is Mandy Johnson. The six·foot junior, who is not related to Dwayne, has added 8.3 points per 
game to the Warriors' scoring. 
The first players off the bench for Marquette probably will be 6-5 Ter­ry Reason ( 6. 7 ppg), who plays both guard and forward, and 6-8 front­line player Vic Lazzaretti ( 5.2 ppg). 
The Irish probably will match up to the Warriors with what has become the regular starting lineup since the loss of Kempton and JoJo Buchanan to injuries. That lineup has Jim Dolan and Donald Royal at the forward positions, Ken Barlow at center, and joe Howard and Tom Sluby in tpe backcourt. 
Sluby, the senior captain who will be playillg his last regular·season horQe gan\e tomorrow, is scoring at a clip of t7.5 points per game. 
The Observer Friday, February 24, 1984 -page 9 
Today and tomorrow 


Wrestlers at NCAA Regionals 
Other Irish players to watch are subs joseph Price., Scott Hicks, and Cecil Rucker. Phelps says that he will be counting on good games from these bench players tomorrow. 
"Hicks and Price have got to be factors," the Notre Dame coach says, "especially ifMarquette zones us." 
Phelps says that his injury-plagued team is finally beginning to play well with the healthy players available. 
"We're just playing with nine guys," Phelps says, "so we don't wor­ry about Kempton or Buchanan anymore. They (the players) are starting to believe in themselves. They're playing their roles and doing the things they can do. 
"It's our last home game," Phelps continues. "Obviously, we want to play well -especially the seniors, Rucker and Sluby." 
Phelps adds a plea to the students to help make tommorow's game a good one for the Irish. The Notre Dame coach asks that all of the fans refrain from throwing anything onto the court during the game. 
"Please don't throw anything on the court," Phelps asks. "Someone could get hurt, we could get a technical, and we should show more class." 
Tomorrow's game very well could be one of those games in which anything can happen, but one thing is almost certain -it will be exciting. 
ByJOE BRUNETTI 
Sports Writer 
With the regular season over, the Notre Dame wrestling team will compete at the NCAA Regionals in Terre Haute today and Saturday. The top three finishers in each weight class plus four wild cards will ad­vance to the NCAA Finals March 8­10 in NewJersey. 
The Irish are pinning their hopes on captain Phil Baty, Mark Fisher, John Krug, and Mike Golic to make the Nationals. 
But, the Irish compete in the West Region, which contains top wres­tling schools like Arizona State and Cal Poly-San Luis Obispo. It is often tougher to make it to the-Nationals than it is to do well at the Nationals. 
Irish coach Tihamer Toth-Fejel is going into the meet cool, calm, and collected. 
"I like not to have expectations," says Toth-Fejel. "If you don't win, then you're disappointed. Ifyou do, then it's no big deal. I don't like to put pressure on my guys." 
Fisher, a senior, will hold Notre Dame's hopes at 126. Once again, Fisher will have to deal with rival Tom Pecora of Marquette. Fisher beat Pecora last weekend, 8-4, in a tri-meet at the ACC to give Fisher a 2-1 career mark against his Mar­quette foe. The win should seed Fis­her ahead of Pecora, which would give him an advantage to m~e Na­tionals. 

"If he doesn't get hurt and wrestles hard," says Toth-Fejel of Fisher, "he should do well." 
A lack of adequate practice time because of late afternoon classes could hinder Fisher's performance. 
"He's been missing out on a lot of drilling," Toth-Fejel says. "That's bad because then he can't work on his mistakes." 
Krug has just come off an im­pressive win against Purdue last weekend. The 167-pound sopho­more has been a mainstay for the Irish all year long, and, after a good week ofpractice, he should do well. 
"This week he has looked really skilled," praised Toth-Fejel. "If he doesn't worry about anything and 
just  wrestles,  something  good  
should happen."  
Heavyweight  Mike  Golic  is  a  

strong contender to make the Finals after being seeded second in last 
year's meet as a sophomore. However, he couldn't compete last year because of a concussion. This year the heavyweight divison con­tains many of the same wrestlers as last year, so Golic's chances look even better. 
"He's healthy," says Toth-Fejel. "But, he needs to set up better. I also wish that he would have wrestled more matches this year." 
Golic has only ·wrestled twelve times this year, so fatigue could be a factor. 
Baty would have an excellent shot at Nationals if it weren't for a knee injury. The knee kept him out oflast weekend's tri-meet, and he couldn't practice Wednesday. For this reason, he is a big question mark for the Irish. 
Toth-Fejel is going to have the trainers at Indiana State do a special wrap on Baty's knee that will allow him to wrestle. If he can't wrestle, though, senior Matt Brown will take his place at I 77. 
Toth-Fejel will have a surprise for the other schools at the meet: Scott Biasetti. The 142-pound freshman probably won't get to the Finals, but he should create some noise. 
"Biasetti is going to surprise some 
ND/SMC Students 

PARTY 

Spring Break in Daytona Beach 
INCLUDES 

•
Round trip motor coach transportation to beautiful Daytona Beach. Florida. 

•
FREE refreshments on the way down [the party starts here. 

•
SFlorida doys/7 endless nights at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels, located right on the strip. 

•
A full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day. 

•
A full list of pre-arranged discounts to so~~ y~~ money 


in Daytona Beach. • . *Travel representatives to insure a smooth tnp and a good time. 
•optional side excursions to Disney World, Epcot, deep sea fishing, etc. 
•All taxes and tips. 

YOU CANNOT FIND A BETTER DEAL OR A 
BETTER TIME OVER SPRING BREAK  
For further information and sign up  THE BEST DEAL TO DAYTONA BEACH  
Call P::~ul at 283-4358  
$195  






:!mlttlt llinlt 
A Browser's Paradise of Unique Gifts 
Handcrafted ltzms Decorative Aaessories Artwork Toys Games Something for Everyone 
Brass Crystal 
Pewter Dolls Nearly one third of our gifts are especially made for us by outstanding artists and craftsmen 
from every state. 
Now open Sundays 11:30-4pm Welcome SMC SOPHOMORE PARENTS 
Come . .. 
s~petrtence 
ffie 8ncl1ontment that L~ . . . . . 
( ·nme 'ee u., al Ihe . . . "•• ""'" D•m• * East Bank Emporium Building 
rrom Centur,y Center lh Niles and JdftBon at Ute Brid e ,_, 

R<· I.
HOURS: 10.5:30 M-Thurs J<J !A:331iii<J 
10-9 Fri-Sat 219-232·8488 11:30·4Sun 

people," says Toth-Fejel. "And he may get a pin or two." 
The Irish may not win their region, but, with the talent they have, they should at least stir things up. 
THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE CLASSES STARTING 
THIS. WEEKEND 


(r.~~.

!!o~N 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
Stanley H. Kaplan Education Center 717 E. S. Bend Ave, Ste H 
South Bend, IN (219) 272-4135 
For Information About Other Centers In More Than 120 Major US Cities & Abroad 
OUTSIDE N.Y. STATE CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 

Dine among the antiques ·and enjoy our vie'; of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234·9000 Ill South Niles South Bend 
,-·
..• 

The Observer Friday, February 241 1984 -page 10 

Excels in two sports 

Golie a winner in wrestling also 
ByJOE BRUNETII 
Sports Writer 
The two-sport athlete is a rare 
<-·ommodity in college athletics. The 
high level of competition makes it 
difficult for an athlc:te to excel in one 
sport, let alone two. But, junior Mike 
Golic has excelled both on the foot­
hall t1eld and the wrestling mat. 
Often athlc:tes excel at two sports 
in high school. hut arc unable to 
compete in both at the college level. 
That hasn't stopped Golie. 
"When I came here, Coach Faust 
said that if I wanted to wrestle, I 
could," says Golic. ''I'm happy I did 
because of how well it tics in with 
ti)()thall." 
Golic likes the way that foohall 
and wrestling complement each 
other. 
"Wrestling and football are like 
one," Gulic says. "But I think that 
wrc:stling hc:lps football more than 
!()()tball helps wrestling." 
"Wrestling hc:lps your endurance, 
quickness, foot speed, balance, and 
lc:vcrage. There are a number of 
things that you can do on the mat 
which you can incorporate on the 
fic:ld in a one-on-one situation." 
Although he says he likes footb all 
more, Golic admits that he really en­
joys wrestling. 
"I love it a nd Iwant to do it for as 
long as I can," says the Dillon Hall 
junior. "I like the one-on-one com­
petition with another person. In 
foot hall if you make a mistake it may 
go unnoticed, but in wrestling it's 
you against another guy. You either 
win or lose because of something 
you do." 
Golic's interest in wrestling started by watching his brother Bob wrestle. Bob both wrestled and played football for Notre Dame, and he now plays football for the Cleveland Browns in the NFL. 
"My brother Bobby started me in 
grade school," says the Irish 
heavyweight. "Then I started watch­
ing him in high school. I started 
watching him when I was in the 
dghth grade just to see if I'd like it, 
and it turned out that I loved it." 
As a high school wn:stler, Golic 
posted an incredible 7 4-14 record at 
St. Joseph lligh School in Willowick, 
Ohio. He also placed third in the 
state wrestling tournament. 
After being recruited by such top 
football schools as Penn State, lJCLA, 
Alabama, and USC, Notre Dame 
remained hi!> first choice. 
"I was exposed to it through Bob­
by and Greg (a brother who also plays football for Notre Dame)," says Golic. "I came here to watch Bohhy and Grq~ (play football). They in· troduccd me to people here, and I · really liked the people and the 
school." 
Golic didn't wrestle: his freshman 
year at Notre Dame so that he could 
take some time off after football. 
Wrestling for his first time on the 
college levella.~t year, Gollc posted a 
shining 24-2-1 mark for the Irish a.~ 
tht· lone Notre Dame heavyweight. 
"I rt·ally had no idea what to ex­
pc.:ct in college wrestling," com­
ments Golic. "Even after watching 
Bobby I still didn't know what to ex­
pect. I wasn't sure what was going to 
happen." 
Golic opened his collegiate career 
last year against Valparaiso. Not only 
did he win his match, but Golic 
broke the school record for the fas­
test pin with a pin just 14 seconds 
into the match. The old record of 19 
seconds had been set in the 1971·72 
season by Mike Fanning. 
"Bobby helps my moves,'! Golic 
says. "Greg gets my head going and 
gets me a little mean. Before the 
match (against Valparaiso), Greg got 
me going real good. I used a move 
Booby taught me, and the guy just 
fell right. It was a lot ofluck, too." 
Golic's size, 6-5 and 250-pounds, 
provide him with an advantage on 
the mat. It also complements his 
unique style. 
"I think being taller is an ad­vantage because it allows you to use your leverage a little better," says Golic. "I like to shoot, and most heavyweights aren't used to that. So I try to usc shooting and quickness in my style instead of going upper body and using strength on these guys." 
This year Golic has only wrestled in twelve matcht·s because of a shoulder injury from football and the Liberty Bowl. But he has been su­perb when he has wrestled, posting an 8-0 record in dual meets and a I I· I mark overall. I-I is one loss came in the National Catholic Collegiate Tournament. 
"The one loss is something not to be happy about," says Golic. "Losing just doesn't sit well with me because of the way I was brought up. My father taught me that when you do something you do it to be the best at it. When you lose, you fail some­where." 
Having only wrestled twelve matches this year has hurt Golic's conditioning, and his performance at Regionals this weekend may be hampered by fatigue. 
"I have to try and get through them (the Regionals ), and not make myself get tired, if that's possible," Golic says. "It's a mind game now. I'm not in the shape I should be in, so the mental aspects are going to come into it now." 

Last year Golie was seeded second 
at the Regionals, but he could not 
compete because ofa concussion he 
suffered only a few days before the 

meet. He would like to make it to the 
Nationals, but, in order to do that, he 
must finish in the top three in the 
heavyweight division. 
"I'm going for that (Nationals)," says Golic. "That's the goal I'm set· ting for myself. I have a positive at­titude that I'll do well and go to Nationals." 
Golic's attitude on burn-out, a problem that most athletes suffer from, is unique. 
"Sometimes I get worn-out, but then I try to realize that I'm not here for that long·of a time," comments Golie. "Four years is a shot in the dark compared to the rest of your life, so I'm trying to do as much as I can before I graduate. 
Golic would like a football career in the future, but he is not counting on it, as indicated by his st~rious ap­proach to academics. 
"If the opportunity comes up to keep playing football, I'd like to do that," says the management major. "If not, I'll usc the degree I'll get from here and find a job in the busi­ness world." 

"Academics is always first," Golic says. "You have to put time into it academically. That's always been something my father's reminded me about." 
NEW DONORS RECEIVE 

$11.00CASH 
After Initial Donation 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 Lincolnway West 
Tues and Sat 8:00-4:30 Wed and Fri 9:00-4:30 
234-6010 
Closed Mon and Thurs 
The Picture Man PRESENTS 
Jwttotr cpatret1tg CUJee~mtd 
"Proofs on Display" 
Where: LaFortune Student Center When: Thurs and Fri, Feb. 23,24--Mon, Tues, VVed,Feb.27,28,29 Time: 11 pm -4 pm each day 
Basement of LaFortune: THE NAZZ Bring your discount coupon 

i 
·-----I)JII-·,~~---tiilllill•: IU!U.III-CVU I 
......" ........." ............" 



i --­
: mOCK STOCK mARKET 
STARTS MONDAY 
Feb.27 
I 

In lobby of
I 



Hutley Bldg. 

Racquetball pairin~s 
All matches must be played and reported to the 1 All matches must be pta yed and reported to the NVA office by March 1. The NVA encourages all NVA office by March 2. The NVA encorages all matches to be played and reported at the earliest con-matches to be played and reported at the earliest con­venience vemence. Those teams not Indicated here have byes 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES MIXED RACQUETBALL DOUBLES (ROUND THREE) (PRELIMINARY MATCHES) 
K1mmet-Crouch (1694) v. Magn~Z1mmer (1059) 
S1rriann1~Hardek (1371) v. Lane-H1ckey (1023) 
Brenton-Ciudz1nsk1  (3137)  v  Hogan-Mornssey  
Aba Aalah~Hathoway (1480) v. Ort1z·Pratt (8219)  
(1722)  
Arm-Fullmer (7034) v. Stack~Oids (7160)  

H1gg1ns·H1ggins (1873) v. Gallagher~Otson (1147)Higgins-Sutter (1873) v. Bathon·Hillerman (8313) Tutchton-Fischer (1 026) v. Roveda~Erk1ns (1352)
Thomason-Wick (1854) v. Schunk-Mart1n (6706) Rehder~ Rogers (8022) v. Coyle~Gasta (6380) Dugan~Hudson (1620) v. Bornemann-Bognanano (1628) Shepard-Drabot (1601) v. Delahanty·Sayre (1 t28) 
Free Market Vintage Clothing 
1920's, 30's, 40's North VIllage Mall (HWY 31 N) Feb. 25 9-9, Feb 26 12-5 See Jeanne 
... 
< 
~orb{sl 
~~···· 
Fri I Sat Happy Hour 3-7 pm All mixed drinks 2 for 1 Imports .... $1.00 

NEIGHBORHOOD NEWS 
A non-profit, local emphasis newspaper is looking for a dynamic, energetic person to serve as editor and perform other duties as determined by the Board. This position is primarily volunteer with token compensa­tion. Send letter of application by Feb. 29to: Board of Directors, Neighborhood News 914 Lincoln Way West South Bend, IN 46616 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How many corporatiOns would b~ w11ling to pay you over SIOOO a month durin,L! your junior dnd sPnior ~·e-ars JUSt so you'd join the company oiter graduation? l'ndc>r a sprc1al ~""Y program \\·e·re doing just that. 
It's calll'd the :\uclear Propulsion Officer Cand1date-College Pro!(ram. And under 1t. you'll not ani~· got great pa~· during your junior and st>mur ~·ears. but ait('r graduataon you'll receive a year oi \'aluable 
gradunto·le\'el traming that is not a\'ailable from any other employer. 
II ~·ou an• a JUniOr or senior majorin~ in math, engincermg or ph~·sari.li scwncl'~. f1nd out mor~ today. And let your career pay o!f while still in college. 
For·more informrrion. call the !\'a\·al Management Programs Office 
at: 
Call Toll Free 1-800-382-9782 
Navy Representative will be on campus November 30 and December 1, 1983 

An out of print book you cannot locate? Try ours earch service! nationally circulated initial cost: $.75 no obligation SOO!o success rate eight weeks 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
1027 E. Wayne noon-6, Tues .-Sun 232-8444 

·~ l . I . : ' .,, .t,;:'T 

T0day_~_________,..__.. 
Bloom County 

Mellish 
-GEEZ 1... IW GOT 

I .J'WS7 ff/) l'·il lAST 
QUAR1fK INTO 'STA~ WMS.'' 
MY BANK A((OI/NT IS (NPTY... I OWE HERYONf MOllO ... 

Richard Guindon
Guindon 

. ~2~·~~~----~--~~-----ll--~------~ 
Don't forget that election yaar is also Lie-to-the· Pollsters Year. 

ACROSS Plays the lead 
6 Night before a holiday 
9 Residents bones 65 Sandarac 
dark

of: sufl. 40 lt. coin 66 Craving 
21 Schiapa­

13 Fortune­41 Firma or 67 River to 
relli and 

teller's cotta the Rhone 
others

card 
22 Dill
43 Vikki the 

14 Sp. unit of DOWN
singer

length 
25 Particle
44 Doing

16 Space org. Poker 
26 Alleviate
business

17 Edict variation 27 Young or
45 Meantime

18 Sister of 2 Select 
old end 
47 Secondhand

Ares 3 Soviet 29 Actor 19 Urbanites 
sea Homolka 

20 Freight 48 King's"­4 WWIInov· fees dream..." 30 Conn. city
elty song 23 Snakelike 51 Sleeps 5 Eydie's 34 Tears briefly partner 35 Gratis 24-street 53 Assumes 6 All over 36 Beach (rich) 59"-a kick 7 Differ stuff 25 Benjamin or out... " 8 Clapton or 39 Protective Nathanael 60 Male stu· Ambler covering 28 Stained dent group 9 Skepticism 42 Donkeys: Fr. 
f f t t

t 7:00 t 9:00 t 11:00 
t 
t 

Tonight and Tomorrow Ntght 

DAN AYKROYD EDDIE MURPHY 
Some very funny business. 


The Daily Crossword 
31 Bib. verb 61 Abandon 10 Subarctic 32 Furthermore 62 Vendition forest 33 Sods 63 Stringed 11 Colo. park 37 "Peekaboo! toy 12 Impudent 
-you!" 64 Colo. ski 38 Pelvis resort 
15 -in the 

WHAT 'LL I 00? I ONlY 
WANT TO PLAY ONf 
MOK£ Tll<ff ... 


"Well, you've overslept and missed your vine 
again." 

$1.50 f Eng f 
A~f 
t t 
46 Confection· ary item 
48 "-far, far better thing..." 
49 Ishmael's mother 
50 Kipling's wolf 52-Lama 
Thursday's Solution 

f 
t t t 

-··________
F_r_id_a..y,_F_e_br_u_arr_2_4_,-19_8_4_·_v_a_ge-11 
Berke Breathed 

Dave 
,--------------1 
W~ERE AR£ I 
'IOU GOING, MM~mo I Mf lUSH I LoAN fiiNP, 
\ \ I 

~I 
54 "-plata" (motto of Montana) 
55 Entertain· 
ing Martha 56 Record 57 Always 58 Sandy tract 
in Eng. 




Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Brown Bag Presentation, "Affluent Churches and ·the Pursuit of Equality," Dr. James Davidson, Library Lounge 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Theories and Measures of Poverty," Dr. James Davidson, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•4:20 
p.m. -Phy.sics Colloquium, "Double Beta, Decay The Search for Lepton Non­Conservation," Dr. A. Minick Rushton, 118 NSH 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Trading Places," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, NO vs Michigan, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Barry Lyndon," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Life in the Spirit, " Log 


Chapel Saturday, Feb. 25 
•2 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs Marquette, ACC 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Fim, "Trading Places," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7 
p.m. -Talent Show, Black Cultural Arts Fes­tival, Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, ND vs Michigan, ACC 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, ND Glee Club and Malloy 


College Glee Club, Washington Hall Sunday, Feb. 16 
•4 
p.m. -Concert, William Cerney, Faculty piano recital, Annenberg Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival Reading, "For Colored Girls Who Have Con­sidered Suicide," Ms. Ntazake Shange, Washington Hall 

•I 
0 p.m. -Off Campus Student Mass, Father Malloy, Campus View Pool Building 



TV Tonight 
9p.m.  16  The Master  
22  Dallas  
28  Blue Thunder  
34  Inside Business Today  
9:30p.m.  34  Enterprise  
10p.m.  16  TV Sensored Bloopers  
22  Falcon Crest  
28  Matt Houston  
34  Austin City Limits  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  CBS Late Movie  
28  Thicke ofthe Night  


© 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2124/84All Rights Reserved 
Start your weekend off right at Senior Bar 
Friday is dollar day!!! All specials the same low price$$$ 

~· 
' 





S~orts 
Two similarly inconsistent teams collide as Marquette invades ACC 
By PHIL WOLF That turnaround came with a 74-69 Sports Wrlll!r victory over South Carolina that started a streak in which Marquette 
When some basketball teams get won eight ofnine games, including a together, almost anything can hap­t1ve-point decision over Louisville. pen. 
Tomorrow's game between Notre 
"Please don't throw any­

Damt· ami Marquette at the ACC ap­
pt·ars to bt· one of those matchups. thing on the court. Some­
The two teams have similar records one could get hurt, we 
and both have shown some inconsis­
could get a technical, and

tency this season. Tht· Irish, 16-I 0, certainly have we shouldshow more seen some good times and some had 
class." 

times this season. After upsetting 
tifth-ranked Maryland, Notre Dame -Digger Phelps 
dropped t1ve ofits next seven games, including a streak offour in a row. Wednesday night, the Irish Tht· Warriors, now I S-9, went 7-H squeaked by Manhattan to break before turning their season around. their four-game losing slump, while 

Women close at home 
Tomorrow night's women's basketball game between Notre Damt• and Xavier will he the last opportunity to see Mary DiStanis­lao's team in action in the ACC this season. The Irish, who will t1nish the season with four consecutive road games, must pick up a win 
over tht· Musketeers ofCoach Laurie Massa if they hope to have any chance of t1nishing over .SOO for the season. They presently have a I 0-I .3 record. 
The gamt" will also mark the tina! ACC performance for co-captain Theresa Mullins and Jenny Klauke. The two St"niors were members of DiStanislao's t1rst team at Notre Dame, and Klauke also has the daim of being the first woman to receive an athletic grant-in-aid to attend Notre Dame. 
As far as Xavier is concerned, the Irish must stop the Musketeers' high-scoring front line ofJo Ann Osterkamp, Judy Smith, and Stacey Land. The trio is combining for an averagt' ofalmost 4 3 points and 16 rebounds a game. Osterkamp leads the scoring with her 16.8 averagt', while Smith is Massa's leading rebounder, pulling down more than eight rebounds a game. 
Tht' Xavier hackcourt is filled by seniors Chris Hart and Ann Clarke, with freshman Shannon Sowers coming offthe bench. Hart's specialty is passing to her teammates inside (five assists per game), hut she is also the biggest offensive threat ofthe three as she averages about seven points a game. 
the Warriors dropped one in overtime to Xavier by 14 points to halt a four-game winning stn:ak. 
Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps says that Marquette's loss last night is not indicative of what the War­riors arc able to do. 
"Marquette is a very unpredict­
able basketball team," Phelps says. 
"They can heat Louisville, then turn 
around and lose to Xavier. I think 
you'll sec the team that beat Louis­
ville here Saturday." 

Phelps said yesterday that the 
Xavier loss may even help the War­
riors. 

"That (loss) is only going to in­spire them coming in here,'" he said. "They'll play with a lot oft'motion." 
In addition to that emotion, tht' Warriors have a large stort' of talent. Coach Rick Majerus has three players with scoring avt"rages in the double digits and a couple ofothers who are not far behind. 
The Warriors' leading scorer is forward Dwayne "DJ" Johnson. The 6-6 junior is averaging 14.1 points per game on S3 percent shooting from the floor. In addition, Johnson pulls down an average of 6. 7 rebounds per game for Marquette. 
Joining Johnson on the front line is 6-7 forward Marc Marotta. Marot­ta, a two-time Academic All­American, has been cotributing an average of 10 points and 6.5 rebounds in each Marquette outing. 
Rounding out the big men is the biggest ofthe Warriors. At 6-10, 245­pounds, center Tom Copa resembles Notre Dame's injured "rock" in the middle, Tim Kempton. Copa, who is only a freshman, has been instrumental in Marquette's 
see WARRIORS, page 9 


Story of a season gone awry 
With a rt"lativt"ly poor 16-1 0 record and hopes for an 

:AA Tournamt'nt bid long gone, one would t'xpcct 
to be miserable for Digger Pht"lps' baskt"tball team. 
ust think. Only three wt'eks ago, things were going 
at for the team as it was riding a five-game winning Mike Sullivan 
eak, including a big upset ofthcn-No. 5 Maryland, and d boosted its record to an impressive 14-5. Sports Editor Then tht' season blew up. Tim Kempton developed iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii::::::. 

ere leg problems and Jim Dolan was forced to play 
th painful bursitis in his toe. Even the outstanding y ofTom Sluby has not been enough to keep the Irish m dropping five of tht' last st"vcn games. Howt·ver, life is anything hut miserable in the basket­
t> II office these days. In fact, Phelps is probably more r laxt"d than ht' as been in a good while. Maybt' he has cllowcd after 1.3 years at Notre Dame, but he also r alizcs that he has no control over the team's two jor problems -injuries and awful foul shooting. He 

a o knows that two years from now, he should have c of the top teams in the country. It is hard to say that this Notre Dame team is "star­
ssed,'' but there always St"cms to be something to ep the young team from putting everything together. ly in the season, it was a lack ofconfidence and a lack a court leader likeJohn Paxson. The team seemed to me apart at the worst times, usually at the foul line. ally, over the semester break, Sluby took over as the rson to turn to when the team needed a basket, and Howard came off the bench to act as a spark plug. 
cr losing to Washington at the foul line, the team t( >k off, with the win over Maryland showing the Irish a their best. 

After tht' Maryland game, a tournament hid looked e a good bet. But that quickly changed when mpton, JoJo Buchanan, and Dolan all became hhlt"d with injuries. Kempton's injury was the most d maging, however. He may not have the best hands in t c world, but, as Phelps said after the DePaul game, he is the "rock" of the team. His incredibly physical pl~y u 
dcr the basket was making rt'hounding easier for yers like Dolan and Ken Barlow. He would take two 
ponents out of t"ach play and was the major reason t Notre Dame had one of the highest rebounding rgins in the country. With Kt"mpton's 6-9, 240-pound body out of the li eup, the Irish have been unable to play the tough, physical game that had carried them to the 14-5 record. Quickly, all the momentum that the team had gained was lost. Notre Dame is now a team of lean front-line players trying to play the same type of game that it played with a bulkier front line. As the second halfofthe DeP.iul game showed, the Irish do not have the ability to dominate the boards anymore -at least not against a decent team. 
With such problems like injuries and poor foul shoot­
ing, it would be easy just to say that it wasn't Notre 
Dame's year. But you still can't help but wonder what 
the team could have done with a more rapid style of 
play. After all, most of the current players seem better 
suited for a quick transition game. Sluby, Cecil Rucker, 
and Howard all came from the run-and-gun high school 
leagues around Washington, D.C. Scott Hicks, Donald 
Royal, and Barlow also arc used to a quick pace. Even 
Dolan, who is not known for his speed and agility, could 
fit in because he is an excellent passer for a big man. 
If there is one major criticism of Phelps, it is that he 
takes players out of their style of play and makes them 
play the slower, defense-oriented game which is Notre 
Dame's trademark. If the team was winning consistent­
ly, nobody would complain, hut this year will be the 
third in a row that the team doesn't go to the NCAA 
Tournament. 
This is not to say that a faster pace would produce any Jetter success, but, at this point of the season, it might 11ot hurt to see what would happen. Notre Dame un­doubtedly will be offered a spot in the NIT even if it finishes 16-12. Chances arc that the Irish will even get to play a round or two at home, especially since the student body will be here for the first round. And, with speedster Dave Rivers expected to play a major role next St"ason, it appears that the Irish arc destined to speed things up in the upcoming years. 
After these last three seasons, it can't hurt to try. 

Friday, February 24, 1984 -page 12 

The Obsc.·rver/Fik Phfllo 
Marquette's Dwayne "D]"]ohnson and his Warrior teammates invade the ACC tomorrow at 2 p.m. to take on the injury plagued Irish. Phil Wolfpreviews tomorrow's annual battle with Marquette in his story at left. 

flockeyteamtakesto home ice for final time 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame hockey team takes the icc tonight and Satur­day at the ACC for its non-league series with the University of Michigan-Dearborn, it will mark the final regular-season homcstand for 1983-84. 
Only the Central States Collegiate Hockey League playoffs remain. But this series will have special meaning for the Notre Dame players as they welcome their mothers and fathers for the traditional "Parent's Weekend," which honors the parents for the support and guidance they have provided over the years. Both the players and their parents will be introduced in a rt"d­carpct ceremony prior to Saturday's contest. 
Notre Dame seniors Tony Bonadio, Joe Bowie, Mike Metzler, and Adam Parsons will be making their last appearances in regular­season action. Head manager Mike Keenan also will be recognized for his services to the team. 
Both games begin at 7:30p.m. 
The Irish come into the series with a 21-3-1 record. The Wolves arc 16-18. Both teams are trying to get back on the winning track. Notre Dame is coming off a pair of losses, 6-5 and 6-4, at the hands ofAlabama­Huntsville, while Dearborn was crushed by Central Collegiate Hock­ey Association power Bowling Green by scores of 11-3 and 10-2. 
"They arc definitely one of the better teams we face," says Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "Based on our loss ofkey people to injuries and ineligibility, I think we go in as the underdog this time." 
The two teams last met over Thanksgiving in Dearborn, and Notre Dame swept the Wolves by scores of 6-4 and 4-3. Tim Reilly scored two goals in the Friday en­counter and co-captain Brent Chap­
man added the hat trick on Saturday 
to pace the Irish attack. 
Since November, Dearborn has 
faced stiffcompetition from many of 
the CCHA teams. Notre Dame, on 
the other hand, has had little trouble 
breezing through its CSCHL 
schedule and in knocking off varsity 
opponent Lake Forest three out of 
four times. 
"Playing the whole year at the club lt'vcl hasn't really challenged us,'' says Notre Dame sophomore Gary Becker. "Playing against teams with abilities less than your own can bring your own skills down. Huntsville caught us a little off guard, so it will be a real test to sec if we can bring out the talent we had earlier in the season. We'll really he up for (Dearborn)." 
Seven of Dearborn's 18 losses have been by one goal, a good in­dication that it is capable ofplaying a fast, aggressive style ofhockey. 
"We will have to play a lot closer checking game," says Tom Part'nt. "We'll also have to take advantage of all our scoring opportunities." 
As far as Notre Dame scoring is concerned, Chapman continues to lead tht' team with 25 goals and 35 assists. His lincmate, Parsons, is next with 26 goals and 31 assists. Bob Thebeau is third with 42 points on 16 goals and 26 assists. 
Missing from the Irish lineup be­cause of injuries will be Steve Whitmore, who is still nursing a thigh contusion suffered at Pt"nn State, Ht" may be ready next wt'ekcnd for the <"SCfiL playoffs. Dcfenscman Rob Ricci re-dislocated his right shoulder last weekend and will be out for the rest of the season. 
Tim Lukenda will start in tht' Notre Dame goal tonight. Ht" has a I 1-.3 rt"cord and a 3.20 goals against avcragt'. Smith has yt't to name a starter for tomorrow. 




