Open Forum -page 3 


VOL XIX, NO. 36 THURSDAY, OCTOBER II, 1984 
• • Richard Allen, former Security Adviser, talks about Reagan's policies 
ByP.A. CIMINO speech were admittedly his own. StaffReporter However, a strong tie to Republican ideals was evident in everything he 
Former National Security Advisor said. Above all, his support ofReagan to President Ronald Reagan, Richard seemed his most adamant point. Allen, was on the campus of the Uni­Allen began his speech by reassur­versity of Notre Dame yesterday to ing his audience about the well­discuss "American Foreign Affairs in being of our country. "The United the 1980s." States is more secure today than four 
A press conference had also been years ago," he said. "Respect and un­planned but had to be canceled derstanding for our actions has in­when Allen was delayed in travell­creased around the globe and we are 
ing. The evening was sponsored by also better equipped to deal with the Student Activities Board. crises," he continued. Allen has Allen has had a long career as a great faith in the Reagan administra­
The Observer/Chrls Mclean 
foreign affairs advisor for the Repub­tion. A represerltattve from Harvard Law School at theLawSchool Caravan heldyesterday in Stepan lican party and also owns an interna­Next, Allen reviewed the high-speaks to (left to right) senior Patty Chandler, Center. Forty law schools attended tbe Caravan. tional consulting firm. 
see ALLEN, page 5 
juniorMark Rabogliatti andsophomore Tim Lyons The views he expressed in the 
Notre Dame graduate to receive first Tom Dooley award 
By KAREN mOMPSON who had fled their country. He also He returned to the United states Notre Dame in 1948, had a great 1961, of cancer. President Dwight NewsSit:l/.1 was the coordinator of Notre in 1981, and today maintains his in­love ofthe Grotto. In a letter written Eisenhower said, "Few if any men Dame's World Hunger Coalition. terest in refugee-poverty problems to University President Father have equalled Dr. Dooley's exhibi­
Michael Bowler, a 1977 Notre After graduation, Bowler went to by doing volunteer work In several Theodore Hesburgh on Dec. 2, tion ofcourage, self-sacrifice, faith in Dame graduate who spent eight Thailand, enrolled in Chaing Mal areas. 1960, Dooley wrote, "But just now .. his God, and readiness to serve his months working with refugees and University, and lived with a Thai Bowler, who will receive the and just so many times how I long fellow man." 
displaced persons in the Far East, family for five months. After return­award onjan. 18, says he Is "honored for the Grotto ... if I could go to the Bowler said, "Thomas Dooley had will receive the first Doctor Thomas ing to the U.S. in 1978, he spent one to be the first recipient ofthe award. Grotto now then I think I could sing a great influence on me and my life." Dooley Award of the Alumni Associ­semester at john Hopkins University Thomas Dooley has always been inside." Bowler's advice to students about ation. and also worked as an intern for the special to me, and after reading his Dooley had a great love for Notre living a good Christian life Is to 
Chuck Lennon, executive direc­International Rescue Committee books I became interested In doing Dame and said to Hesburgh in his "accept yourself the way you are. tor of the association, said Bowler and for Bread for the World. work in Asia." letter, "Notre Dame is twice in my Don't feel like you have to prove 
"exemplifies the same spirit, In 1979, he was sent to Indonesia Doctor Thomas Dooley, for mind and always in my heart. That yourself. Christian service and social humanitarian concern and service as and Singapore to assist the "boat whom the award is named, estab­Grotto is the rock to which my life Is justice is grounded deep in Dooley did." Candidates can be people" -refugees who fled their lished seven hospitals in four under­anchored." spirituality, otherwise it's superfi­
nominated by anyone, and the homelands in boats. He spent 15 developed countries, wrote three Dooley died at age 34, on jan. 17, cial."· recipient is chosen by the National months involved in the resettlement best-sellers, and brought medical Alumni Board of Directors. of refugees from Indonesian camps, care to half a million people. He also Before his graduation from Notre and five months working with founded the Medical International Dame, Bowler and his family refugees from Vietnam, Cambodia Cooperation Organization. sponsort·d two Vietnamese families and Laos. Dooley, who graduated from 
Urban Plunge offers opportunities to understand plight of city's poor 
ByPATSAIN put into groups of Jour to seven husband died, and she had to have a Senior StuffReporter people, and the group is put in the heart operation which left her care of a contact person. The con­unable to work. She went on 
Nearly 300 Notre Dame and Saint tact is usually connected with a welfare, and they would not believe Mary's students will spend two days parish or social work center at the her when she went in (to apply for during Christma.~ break seeing a city site of the plunye. welfare), leaning on a cane." from a different viewpoint as part of "We went to an alcoholic drop-in "The welfare system was not the Urban Plunge. center (in Cincinnati) last year," doing what it should have been 
'111e Urban Plunge program offers said senior Tom Holubeck. "Most of doing," said Holubeck. " It would students "an opportunity to expe­the people there were alcoholics not pay for her medication. It was rience for themselves the problems and really appreciated us being killing her." The woman relied on of the poor unique to the city, and there. They saw that we cared, and money from the local parish, be­the ways those problems are being they really opened up." cause welfare would not support dealt with," said Sara Webb Phillips, Junior Susan Hemmer, who also her, said Holubeck. coordinator of justice and peace went to Cincinnati last year, said, "It leaves you wondering, 'Who is ('dut·ation at the Center for Social "There were bookshelves (in the al­going to be the next victim?' " said Concerns. coholic center) from floor to ceiling Hemmer. 
"Tht· plunge is not a tour of the stuffed with shopping bags. Each bag Junior Don Timm, who made a poor," said Phillips. "'llu· plunge contained the life possessions ofone plunge in Dallas last year, said, "I've makes people aware in their own of the people at the center." lived there all my life -I knew there area of needs they hadn't seen The center provides a place for were poor people, but I couldn't before. It gives people a sense of people to sleep each night, and gives believe how widespread (they) hope-a look at what is being done." them a meal each night. were. 111e city keeps them well hid­
Students on the plunge arc sent to Senior Anne Attea, who made a den." cities oftheir choice if at all possible. plunge in Chicago last year, said, "There used to be poor people If a plunge site does not exist in a "I've lived in the Chicago area for living next to the state fair," said particular city, a new one will be over ten years, and I heard things in Timm, but/'developers bought the started if possible, said Phillips. Last the news, (about urban problems) land they were living on, and tore year, .l60 students went to 'i6 differ­but I had never seen them close up, down all of the housing, promising ent sites. or been immersed in them." to build (new houses)." The land 
Applications for this year's Urban "We talked to a lot of (elderly) was never developed as promised, Plungt· are available at the Center for folks," said Attea. "(There was) so said Timm. Instead, a small, expen­
Former National Security Advisor Richard Allen speaks about
Social Concerns and from hall repre­much fear in them -they were afraid sive housing area was built in the 
"American Foreign Policy in tbJ? 1980s" last night in the Library 
sentatives. All applications are due to go out at night." middle of the land. 
Auditorium. In addition to tbe future offoreign policy, be also
tomorrow at the Center for Social "We met one lady who had been 'Ilte poor people are allowed to 
spoke aboutpolicies offomlerpresidents and his own experiences
Concerns. successful. married, and a registered 
see PtUNGE, page 3 in tbe Reagan administration. See the story above for more details.
During the plunge, students are nurse," said Hemmer. "'Iltcn her 

The Observer Thursday, October 11, 1984-page 2 

In Brief 
To clear her son's name, a Tennessee woman 
filed a S3 million lawsuit over the young man's death from an alcohol 
overdose suffered after a Tennessee State University fraternity party. 
The suit, filed in Davidson County Circuit Court, charges TSU and its 
administrators with negligence for failing to investigate reports of 
fraternity hazing. The mother claims the official account ofthe inci­
dent blames her son for reckless drinking when he was forced to 
consume alcohol, as part ofthe initiation ritual.-The Observer 
Three Harlem Globetrotters reached a settle­
ment in Los Angeles yesterday ofa $3 million civil rights lawsuit that contended the basketball players were stopped at gunpoint by Santa Barbara police just because they were black. Neither side would disclose the amount ofthe settlement, which was reached in federal court following a three-hour, closed-door session. "We are not un­happy with it," said attorney Edward Bell, who represented the three Globetrotters. -AP 
The Michiana Head Injurysupport Group will 
meet at 7 tomorrow evening in Room 3 I9 of the Angela Building at St. Joseph's Medical Center, 410 North Notre Dame Avenue, South Bend. Dr. Michael Long, physiatrist, will address the group on issues in rehabilitation ofthe head injured following the critical stage. Indi­viduals who have experienced head injury, their families, friends, and interested professionals are invited to attend. For additional in­formation on this program or other services, please call: Jane Ullery at 232-5565, Blanca Relle at 272-7445, or Mary Lou Harmon, St. Joseph's Medical Center at 237-7246.-The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Hibernian Lecturesponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Cat­holicism will be held this afternoon at 4 in the Library Lounge. Pro­fessor David Montgomery of the Yale history department will speak on "The Irish Influence in the American Labor Movement." -The Observer 
"Datlce for Heart" is a three hour exercise dance marathon to benefit the American Heart Association. On Saturday, Oct. 27, from 1 until 4 p.m., dancers from the Michiana area will participate in this event, sponsored by the Sports Medicine/Health Awareness Department of St. Joseph's Medical Center. Dance stu­dents thoughout the city will be soliciting sponsors to pledge whatever they can for every minute of exercise dancing they are able to finish during the event. Proceeds will be donated to the American Heart Association to be used to fund AHA cardiovascular research, professional education and community programs. For more information and registration, call Marilyn Huber at 237-7697.­
The Observer 

Urban Plunge applicationsare still available at the Center for Social Concerns, University Ministry, the Office of Justice Education at Saint Mary's or from your Urban Plunge hall representative. Applications are due Friday, Oct. 12. -The Observer 
Weather 

Partly sunny and mild today with a high in the lower to mid 70s. Becoming cloudy tonight with a 20 percent chance of thunderstorms toward morning, and a low in the upper 50s. Tomorrow will be mostly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of thunderstorms. The high will be in the lower 70s. -AP 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ............................. Paulllruce 
Layout Staff...... Mark Weinholt, Caroline 
Belin 

Typesetters ....jennifer Bigou, Tracy Brin· 
gardner 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is News Editor........................... Marc Ramirez published Monday through Friday and Copy Editor..............................jane Kravcik on home football Saturdays, except Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke 
during exam and vacation periods. The 
The ObserYer. 
Viewpoint Layout .............. Byron Stevens Observer is published by the students of 
Viewpoint Copy Editor..........Joe Murphy the University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Features Copy Editor....... Marikris Dalum Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Features Layout..................... Sharon Houk purchased for S30 per year ( J20 per se· 
ND Day Editor ................... Donna Gavigan mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
SMC Day Editor.................... Carolyn Kelly Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. , Ad Design .........................................Suzanne The Observer is a member of The 
Typist ...................................... Vera Hillegass Assodated Press. All reproduction Photographers ....... Chris McLean, Margie rights are reserved. 
Kersten 

Adding activities to your schedule could be worth your while 
The alarm goes off, disturbing only your roommate. Finally he or she tells you to turn the obnoxious thing 
John Mennell 
off. You get out of bed, still tired from studying until four in the morning. You shower, grab a doughnut at the Assistant News Editor dining hall, head off to your classes and then come home and study, study, study. The same grind all week 
Inside Thursday

long. 
It is not fun but everyone said college would be tough. It would be a lot ofstudying. You are at college to learn and that is what you are doing so it must be all no longer interested. right. You know how to calculate the rate of decay of a Clubs have no final examinations. When you are radioactive particle. You are learning. bogged down during finals so is everyone else. Club 
The most important things you learn are not taught in activities dwindle so they will not take your time when 
the classroom. A lot of the learning can be through you really need to study. coping with difficult roommates and dormmates but There are other advantages to organizations as well. the most rewarding learning comes through activities. You can get involved in activities that will be interests 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community has for the rest of your life. The Knights of Columbus, for literally hundreds of clubs and organizations to choose instance, are located all across the country. You may from. There are student government positions, hall pos­not know that you like sailing, or windsurfing but either itions, publications, volun-could easily become a teer service groups, ethnic lifelong pastime. groups, academic organiza­People who complain tions, special interest about the lack of opportuni­groups, athletic clubs, geo­ties to meet people should 
graphic clubs, honor consider involvement, too. societies and more. All of When you get into an activ­these teach you things you ity you meet people who can not learn in the class­share a common interest. room and reward you in You develop a group of ways that grades can not. aquaintances outside your 
Activities are good be­dorm and classes. cause you can put in as Best of all activities pro­much time as you want with vide an excellent opportu· them. There are no set re­nity to blow offand get rid of quirements, it is simply a some steam. When the ten­
feelir19 pressvred by +ke S4me old ~,.;,.,;t? 
matter of spending time sions and pressures of when you want to and when classes build you can step you can. 1f you have three out of it all and have some 
tests tomorrow and a 20-fun. page research paper due you Classes are important do not have to go to the meettng and everyone will even if you wake up mornings dreading a 75-minute understand. lecture or 50 minutes of certain confusion. Activities 
The rewards in clubs are often greater than those in are a necessary addition to college life. Athough Activi­the classroom. your reward in the classroom is a good ties Night was over a month ago and most clubs are well grade and the knowlege. Every class has someone who into their operations it is not too late to join. Look never does any work and gets the same grade that you through the list in the phone book, give up your carrel worked hours and hours for. It does not always seem in the library, take a study break and get involved. It will fair. In an activity the reward is personal satisfaction. be worth your time. This can be achieved by visiting an old person and making his life brighter, helping a team to victory, hel­ping some friends get home for break or getting your first article in the paper. 
Correction 

In most organizations you do not have to wait in long lines to get in. You can call the club president or go up 
Due to an editing error, the compilation of a list of to the club's office and tell them you want to get in­
locations which will and will not take responsibility for volved. They are always looking for new members. 
off-campus events was wrongly attributed. The Hall Likewise, if you decide that long-distance-canoe­
Presidents' Council is compiling the list. portaging is not the club for you, you do not need ten signatures on a drop slip. You just call and say you are 
***************** •••••••••••••• • •••• ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
MIAMI JEWBRY • S.O.A.P •• 
1906Miami SJ.. 
• • 0 Students on Alcohol Problems ••• TOP PRICE • Meeting on Mondays at 4:oo pm. • .. RINGS*DIAMONDS Counseling &Psychological Services •
-tc • •
GOLD*SILVER 
• Center rm. 316 •WATCHES ..• •• Do you have some ideas about alcohol? •• Buy -Sell -Exchange • •• Would you like to share them with other •• 
OPEN MONDAY· SATURDAY 9· 6
"' 
students who may also be like you? 289-6440 •.. : • Call 239-5085 or stop by C.&PSC. (Mon. & Thurs.) •: •
•
***************** .............................. ··········•····· 


SENIORS 

EXPERIENCE LATIN AMERICA WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE 
A two-year post-graduate commitment to living a simple lifestyle, teaching, serving and sharing in community. 
For information contact: 
Mary Ann Roerner  John Fitzpatrick  
Center tor SoCial Concerns  AssoCiates Off1ce  
239·7949  239·5521  
239 Cavanauqh  
239-6522  

The Observer Thursday, October 11, 1984-page 3 

The Observer/MarRJe Kcr!'tcn 

Kathleen juckiness and Ellen Byrne announce results of the Oktoberfest Hall Olympics held last night at Saint Mary's. Teams from McCandless, Regina, LeMans and Holy Cross Halls competed in such etJents as Twister, Apple Pass, and a suspender race. 
Plunge 
continued/rom page 1 
live in some of the buildings, but they can only rent It, and can be kicked out at any time, said Timm. 
"An Episcopal church In the area was buying and rebuilding houses for ( sc:lected) families," he said. "Ifa member of the family could obtain and keep a job, the church would try to find a permanent home for them." 
"The whole cycle of poverty Is hard to get out of," said Hemmer. For example, she said, "When you are I 8, and living with your family on welfare, you either sign up on the welfare list, or move out of the house and support yourself. This Is hard to do for most 18-year-olds." 
Poor people are often accused of being lazy for not having a job, said Holubeck. "They are not lazy -they just cannot get ahead. There is no way to workup the welfare system." 
"Students are Impressed with the dedication of the people working with the poor," said Phillips. They put up with low salaries and desper­ate situations, but they have a "deep sense of committment and excite­ment," she said. 
Students going on the Urban Plunge this year will recieve one academic credit, and an "S" or "U" grade (satisfactory or unsatisfac­tory) on their transcript. In order to 

Open Forum Series offers students chance to express opinion publicly 
By PATII TRIPATHI 
News Staff 
Members of the Notre Dame com­munity will have the opportunity to voice their concerns on pertinent political and social issues during the Open Forum series. This year the Forum is being run by the Student Lobby committee of the Student Government and the Election Task Force. 
The series is similar to the experi­mental project of last semester, during which a microphone was set up on the Fieldhouse Mall for· the usse of students who wished to speak on any topic. 
The Open Forum series will occur each Wednesday during October on the Fieldhouse Mall. Students are invited to speak about selected poli­tical issues from ll:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. In case of inclement weather, the location will be moved to the main lobby of LaFortune. No 
obtain a grade of "S," a student must go on the plunge, participate in the follow-up meetings, and write a 4-6 page reflection paper, said Phillips. 
"The Urban Plunge Is the most successful social concerns program at the Univeristy," said Phillips. "The past plungers are all enthusiastic about the experience. 
''I'm impressed with the organiza­tion of this program, and the in­credible network of people helping the Notre Dame family-people who care about helping the poor, and sharing with students," Phillips said. "The University is on to something very creative in providing students an opportunity to integrate academics and concerns of justice and compassion." 
preregistration is required. The forum will be moderated by a mem­ber of the Lobby-Task Force Coali­tion. 
Campus organizations involved with the Election Task Force will sponsor organized debates on the topic selected for the forum the eve­ning preceding the Open Forum. On Oct. 15, a debate on pro-choice vs. pro-life is planned in anticipation of the Open Forum on life issues planned for Oct. 17. Nuclear issues will be debate topic on Oct. 29 in preparation for the Oct. 31 forum. 
Peter Carter of the Center for So­cial Concerns organized the forum because he felt there was a need for increased political action at Notre Dame. 'Ibe election year prompted Carter to organize the forum so par­ticipants could make a well­informed choice while voting. 
He hopes to get people to talk about national global issues. "The best thing that can come out of this is the increased political aware­ness," said Carter. 
This project will be continued in LaFortune after October. With no stipulation of subject topic, there will be, however, a five-minute time requirement. "After the barrier of apathy Is broken, people would respect it (the forum) and look for­ward to it," said Carter. 

O'Rourke named as Writer-in-Residence 
By ELIZABETH FLOR 
Sentor StaffReporter 

William O'Rourke, assistant professor of English at Notre Dame, has been named the James 'Iburber Writer-in-Residence by the Na­tional Advisory Panel of the Thurber House Writer-in-Residence Program. 
O'Rourke, on leave from Notre Dame this year, is the author ofof two novels,/die Hands, andThe Hamsburg 7and the New Catholic Left. 
As Thurber Writer-in-Residence, O'Rourke is living in the two­bedroom apartment on the third floor of the home of the American humoristjames Thurber in Columbus, Ohio. Tilis house onjefferson Avenue Is the setting for the stories in Thurber's My Life and Hard Times. 
O'Rourke is the first of three writers selected by the Thurber House National Advisory Panel, which includes Burgess Meredith and Peter DeVries, both members ofThurber's family. The Thurber House itself is undergoing restoration and will open Dec. 8, Thur­ber's 90th birthday, as a book center and).lUseum. 
The StudentActivities Board and WVFIpresent: 

THE BANGLES 
FROM LOS ANGELES 
LIVE AT STEPAN CENTER 
Sunday, October 14th at 8:00p.m. 
• 
Toured with Flock ofSeagulls 

• 
Hit single "Hero Takes A Fall" 

• 
On M T.V. 



Tickets on sale now in the Dining Halls and at the S.A.B. Record Store 
$3.50 in advance, $4.50 at the door 
ALANON Mondays ..... 6:30 pm 

Counseling & Psychological Services Center Room 316 
Does someone significant to you have a drinking problem? Does it affect you? Maybe we can help. Call 239-5085 
$1.00 off any pizza. $1.00 One coupon per pizza. 
Off Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 
__ -~ -. ~~South Bend -Phone: 277-2151 · Expires in one week. 
I ~ JTC NA 129 2650 

~~·~~·'~'"''""'" 

-.-.-..-...-.·.-....-..-..~·.: 
The Observer Thursday, October 11, 1984-page 4 
Sullivan first woman to step into open space for America 

Give to the

• United Way 
Unitedway 

Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Kathy Sullivan donned a helmet and breathed pure oxygen yesterday, preparing to become the first Ameri­can woman to step into open space for a three-hour work stint today in Challenger's cargo bay. 
Sullivan and space-walking partner David Leestma were told to go on with the extensive prepara­tions after Mission Control decided Hurricane Josephine had faded as a threat to a shuttle landing at the Ken­nedy Space Center on Saturday. 
"We hope we have a great show for you tomorrow," said pilot Jon McBride as he narrated TV pictures of the astronauts working with their space suits. 
Initially, the space walk was to have been devoted to practicing techniques for refueling satellites in orbit. But a problem with an antenna on this mission added to the astronauts' job. 
Leestma and Sullivan will move the antenna, disconnected earlier in the tlight, and line up two holes so that an astronaut in the cabin can throw a switch to drive two locking pins through them. 
To send power to the locking device, astronaut Sally Ride yester­day had to "hotwire" an electrical circuit after removing lockers and panels on Challenger's middeck. 
There still could be a one-day postponement in the touchdown, scheduled for 12:24 p.m. EDT Satur­day, ifwinds linger in the area. Since the shuttle is in unpowered flight and has only one chance to land after it leaves orbit, weather require­ments are strict. 
When it lookeo as if the storm would be in the area, space officials debated delaying both the space walk and the landing one day. 
Sullivan and Leestma are sched­uled to step into the open cargo bay at 11:30 a.m. 
They spent most ofyesterday get­ting set for that task. 
Mission Control directed the crew to take pictures of oil spills near Kharg Island in the Persian Gulf. Several oil tankers have been sunk in that area during the war be­tween Iran and Iraq. A study of ocean oil spills is one of the goals of the mission. 
Hey, Fighting Irish! Stay at Inn on the Lake for the Notre Dame-LSU football game for Only 

•
m 
You'll cheer for our special Weekend Pass Play football package: 
Free breakfast buffet each morning. Free cocktails, two hours per night. $39 per night for up to four guests in a room. $80 per night for a Thilgate ?arty Suite. Only 8 minutes from Tiger Stadium in Baton Rouge. 
Make your reservations now! 
Call (504) 346-1482, or 1-800-535-9988 outside Louisiana. 



INN ON THE LAKE 
1575 Riverside North~ , , , . , Bliton Rou~e, Lo_u~~i-~_a)_0~2-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _~ •.• ,_ 


-------~----­

~·----------------------------------------------------------~­
The Observer 
Campus social life got you down? 
Try something different!! ND-SMC Counc:il for the retarded 
needs volunteers for a Dance at Logan Center Friday, October 12 -7:30 to 10 p.m. 
Thursday, October 11, 1984-page 5 
summits and his work with SALT II. He noted future goals which the However, Allen also noted, "foreign United States is trying to achieve un­
Allen 
policy is not just diplomacy. Foreign der the Reagan administration. "We policy is the sum total of all our in­must send a message to the USSR to terests in the world." reduce the number ofnuclear weap­
continuedfrom page 1 
After this comment Allen men-ons in the world. We must also try to 
tioned his own involvement in build democratic systems in Central points and the shortcomings of United States foreign policy under and South America." He finally previous administrations with an in-Reagan. He made numerous trips to noted that, "An effort to restore our depth denouncement ofpolicies ad-China and Japan, and worked in El world leadership is underway." vocated by the Carter Salvador and other countries in Allen is a graduate of the Univer­administration and further praise for Central and South America. sity of Notre Dame and holds both a Reagan's policies. Allen said preced-Allen discussed U.S. defense, con­bachelor's and a master's degree ing presidents had allowed the centrating on the need to establish from the University. Allen served as "basic national security to decline to working channels of comunication Reagan's National Security Advisor a very low point." with the USSR. "Defense is being until he left office while under 
.. ..
iOct. 11 SMC Beer Garden t t 9 p.m. ·1 a.m. -tc 
.. t
t Oct. 12 Senior Night at H.l.'s t t 9:30p.m. t 
.. ~
.. ..
t Oct. 18 Cocktail Party t t ACC Monogram Room ~ 
£ 9 p.m. ·1 a.m. ~ 
:Oct. 31 :

H~~~~reB~~ Party 
r*********************************** "During the Carter administration built up, as is inteUigence," he said. tederal investigation. He continues to play an active role in the Republi­
; ATTENTION SENIORS! tt we did not have an articulated "Weseektorestorethebalanceand 
,. foreign policy to the rest of the margin ofsafety which was lost after can party and to offer consultation -tc -tl world," Allen said. He praised Carter 10 or 12 years of predecessor ad-on foreign policy. He strongly adv­ocates Reagan's re-election.
: Oct0 ber CaIendar Revisi0 ns: t ...~~or!!!!!!!!hi!!!s!!!e!!!ffo!!!r!!!ts!!!a!!!t!!!th!!!e!!!!!!!!C!!!am!!!p!!!!!!!!D!!!a!!!vi!!!d!!!!!!!!m!!!i!!!ni!!!st!!!ra!!!ti!!!on!!!s!!!...!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!t~ 
Above all else he wanted to state
.. .. 
~ 

_,___ _iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii$iiiii8iiiiiiiiiiORiiiiiouiiiiiniiiiidiiiiiTiiiiiriiiiiipiiiiiOiiiiiniiiiilyiiiii!-'
: :~ 
Need LSU Tix 
***********************************~ 
Campus Entertainment presents: 
The Budweiser Comedy Shop Tour 
Come enjoy 3 of America's hottest young comedians: 
Jeff Altman Elavne Boosler Richard Lewis 
Appearing at O'Laughlin Aud, SMC October 17 8:00p.m. 
Tickets on sale at SAB Record Store -Lafortune, O'Laughlin Box Office and Century Center 
$4 General Admission 
clearly that the United States' foreign policy is doing very well and,
NEW dERSEY CLUB 
depending upon the election's outcome, should continue to im­
Oc:tober Break Bus 

prove. 
Support 

Sign..;ups: Monday October 15 
March 
6-Spm 
of
2nd floor Lafortune 
Dimes 

~~~,-_-..,.,-.~"--'\ 

~~-~-~-;;~i;i·-·~---~~:~··~iiidiii, 
llllllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
THE 
RECORD STORE 
N\Ll? I C... ... 

Servicing your
i 

music needs at discount prices 


Check it out in LaFortune 
SPONSORED BY THE S.A.B. 
............................................................................................... 
: SeniorNight :
. .
~ 

CaII collect eves. 
504·291-0642 
.......
................_..,_,..,.......... 
............. &co~~om--. ... 
....._............. r.t.do_..,_ 
~-t90110, NEGO.-·PA 
-.........--......~..._. 
_.,._...,...._ 71Fanl-. s-llar .......,_.ltotetc/oZJW_.tftlhSINot. ,IN 1111. 
~ 
, 
~ 
I 
1 
~ 
1 
~ 
~ 
l 1 
~ 
, 
., 
.,
,
, 
, 
1 
.., 
~ 
.... 
, 
~ 
1 
1 
1 
, 
, 


·, .. ,

.••••.••••,., ..................... , ....... •·.' .• ·' .• ....... ··~········ "• '• "• ... \. ... ' \ ... ' 'l 1. ; • .: : : • 
. ..... ~ .. ,.~.-... ·, ..... ,.,, .. ~ ............,
~~~~···~"~ 
.~~ ..... _',', ._ ...,,~·~· ........ • .. ·,·.·,· 11 •• ~ ...... #,..,~ 

---,~-~ 



~i~~~_{)__i_Jl___t________________

Th_ur-sd-ay,_o_cto-be_r_11,_19-84__p_ag-e6 
Is the media going to make the president? 

One ofthe "in" things to do, especially in an election year, is to knock the "power" of the media. 
After all, evidence is all around us . . . Reagan's "well-oiled media machine" is rol­ling over us with half-hour prime time televi­sion ads (placed simultaneously on all three cia! interest groups, political action committees and national parties, has not taken power from the people. 
Chris Robinson  
a larger view  
networks  and  most  other  independent  
metropolitan outlets!). Only his campaign  
treasurers know for sure how much this is cos­ 
ting, but the figure is sure to run into the  
,.,. r, r·, r r  several million dollar range before the cam­paign is finished. Mondale's media basket has no golden eggs for such extravagant purchases, so he relies heavily on running-mate Ferraro's photogenic personality to grab headlines and photo stories in major newspapers across the country.  
Both  candidates  use  weekly paid  radio  
broadcasts, paid broadcast advertising, and  
the usual clutch of carnival goodies such as  
bumper stickers, lawn signs, campaign but­ 
tons and the like. And, of course, both camps  
are  using  televised  debates  to  get  their  
messages across to the American people.  
Being surrounded by this wash of super­ 
charged communication almost gives the im­ 
pression that  the electoral battle is being  
fought -and won -by the candidate with the  
biggest advertising budget and the  ~e  best  
public relations minds. After all, a string of  
recent polls is showing Reagan pulling farther  
ahead of Mondale (and here's the catch)even  
though a large number of respondents side  
with Mondale on many ofthe crucial issues  
ofthe campaign! People apparently are plan­ 
ning to vote for Reagan, considering him a  
more compelling leader and giving him credit  
for strong economic performance.  
The cynic will say that big money is buying  
this election. Or that the pollsters are playing  
with the results to bolster the winner and dis­ 
courage the loser. I disagree. The "power" of  
the media and of the professional pollsters is  
overblown. In fact, the whole polical spec­ 
trum, as loaded as it is with media czars, spe­ 

You see, we are not robots. We don't un­thinkingly unzip our minds to a gush of media messages and then march to the polls to pull the lever with the highest price or the one with the greatest statistical significance. 
We are the people. We decide to partici­pate. We consider the evidence. We vote. We determine our leadership (albeit via the elec­toral college in the case of presidential elec­tions). 
True, the battle is being fought in our minds. And what do we, as the United States electorate, appear to be saying in opinion polls? That we intellectually side with Mondale on. critical issues such as budget deficits, nuclear disarmament, the environ­ment, education and social welfare. But that we follow Reagan with our hearts ... fervantly believing that the traditional national dreams of rugged individualism, self-determination and the good life resulting from free enter­prise are still alive. 
It's like a national schizophrenia: we want the best ofboth worlds. We want to face diffi­cult issues, and Mondale strikes deeply responisve chords in us on the one hand ... yet we fall under the charismatic spell ofwhat we would like ourselves to be and don't want to give up what apparently is a good thing un­der Reagan on the other. 
The situation becomes complicated in that these candidates are reflecting what is going on in our thought processes, and then feeding those reflections back to us in the form ofpoli­tical ads, messages, speeches and the like. The whirlpool of political activity becomes blurred in countless cross currents ofpsycho­logical and sociological dimensions as voters, as well as the candidates themselves, undergo change as a result ofpolitical activity. 
What to do? Try to slice through this inter­play and ask the kind ofquestions I presented in my first column in September. Try to see the process foe what it really is. And then re­member thatyou are ultimately in control. 
Then vote November 6. 
Chris Robinson is communication consul­tant who is a doctoral sociology student at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 

r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 


P.O.BoxQ 
Banning on-campus use of dinner forks 
Dear Editor: 

In light of the success the administration's alcohol policy has generated in reducing stu· dent contact with an acknowledged threat to human health and happiness, I feel it is only reasonable that someone suggest that the ad· ministration protect students from another danger: the fork. Banning on-campus use of forks would accomplish two ends. It would eliminate what becomes a lethal weapon in the hands of immoderate fork users, and it would also decrease the heavy reliance on forks that has incapacitated so many students in their later years. 
Of course, it may be objected that banning on-campus forking will just encourage stu­dents to take their forking activities to off­campus eateries and other dens of sin. However, the University would not be liable should any off-campus incidents occur. In ad­dition, the savings to the dining halls would be substantial, since they would no longer have to fork over money for forks. 
Thomas Wood ZabmHall 
Pettifer resorts to inept name-calling 
Dear Editor: 

We have seen enough comments on Cuomo vs. The Church to last a long while. So much so that certain current articles are bor­dering on ridiculousness. "Archbishop dines with rich and famous" fits well within this cat­egory. Ms. Pettifer has resorted to what Cuomo and his opponents have been trying to 
get away from, inept name-calling. The idea that priests live in "a world ofillusion and fan­tasy, which distances them from the pastoral needs ofthe really poor" is beyond reproach. 
The facts are that Archbishop O'Connor comes from the ranks ofthe poor, as do a large portion of priests, and he knows very well what poverty is. He also ministers in many ways, on a daily basis, to the poor. We must keep in mind that this "elegant dinner" is for charity. And, if it takes a big fancy dinner to get moneyfrom the rich, so be it. The poor people it helps sure won't complain. But I seriously doubt Ms. Pettifer ever considered that. 
Steve Skikos Sophomore 

Holper wrings hands over abortion dilemma 
Dear Editor: 
In his Oct. 4 guest column, Rev.]. F. Holper wrings his hands over the dilemma posed by abortion. He then chides both "pro-life" and "pro-choice" forces alike for being insensitive to the "ambiguity" surrounding abortion. 
While exceptional cases certainly exist, I submit that the issue is not nearly as murky as many people (particularly abortion adv­ocates) would have us believe. The primary question which must be addressed is when, if ever, a fetus becomes a human being. Surely, however, the burden of proof is on abor­tionists to show that that the fetus is not human until birth or until admission to law school, or until whenever it is that they think one becomes human. In the absence of any convincing evidence that the fetus is not human, abortion on demand is, at best, grossly irresponsible. 
Although Rev. Holper apparently views abortion only as a matter of personal choiCe, we all have an obligation to prevent the possi­ble (indeed, probable) destruction ofmillions ofdefenseless human beings. 
james R. Roche Cavanaugh Hall 

Got an opinion, drop us a line
r Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to the columns, articles and illustrations printed this newspaper, but through 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address issues which have not been raised to your satisfaction in this newspaper. Viewpoint encourages all ofIts readers to fully expore and voice their opinions. Simply send your letter toP. 0. Box Q or deliever it to our office. Letters should be no longer than 150 words in length and guest columns should notexceed600 words. All works must be signed. 

~-~Ihe__ Observer--~ Editorial Board 

Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

(219) 239-5303 Editor·tn·Chief. . . Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager . Dave Taiclet
Manag1ng Editor . . ... Mark Worscheh 

Controller. . Maripat Horne
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the 
News Ed1tor . 

Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager Anne Culligan
Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily 

News Ed1tor . . Dan McCullough Clfculation Manager. . ... Jeff O'Neill
reflect the pol1c1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Samt Mary's Ed1tor . Anne Monastyrsk1 

Systems Manager .. Kevm Williams
accuratelyand as objectively as possible. Unsigned ed1tor1als represent the opin1on Sports Ed1tor. . . M1chael Sullivan of a maJOrity of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column 
· V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor .... Dave Grote present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the 

Features Ed1tor Mary Healycommun1ty. and the free expression of varymg opmions on campus. through letters. Founded November 3, 1966
Photo Ed1tor . Pete Laches 1s encouraged. · 

---------------------------·-·-----·· 


-----~-­
------~ -~-------------------· 



Showcase 
Thursday, October 11, 1984 -page 7 
Records 
'Phantoms' fixed in pattern of boredom 
by Don Seymour 
features staffwriter 

T}hantoms , the third effort by r Britain's Fixx, is disappointing in its similarity to the band's previous album Reach the Beach and in the repetitious nature of the songs. The band, which has been more suc­cessful in the United States than in its homeland, seems unable to break out of the songwriting modes they have established. The typical Flxx song features high, choppy, thin guitar chords, low, trembling guitar notes, an active bass, and shimmering, ever-present syn­thesizers. In some cases, this pat· tern has produced fresh, original, excellent songs like their debut "Stand or Fall," or "One Thing Leads to Another," or "Saved by Zero," but their previous two albums have both suffered from a lack ofcreative ideas to sustain an entire album of material. In other words, besides two or three songs in each case, their previous albums, Shuttered Rf)(ml and Reach the Beach, were boring. 
Phan((nns, unfortunately, bor­ders on the same fate. Most of the songs here sound like sequels to "Red Skies," "Sign of Fire," or "One "Jbing Leads to Another." Beginning songs with a surging crescendo of synthesizers only to fall into a bared-down guitar verse seems to fascinate the group; as does the 
Father Gerald 
Sinners! REPENT! 
G-\u.ttony is the loYJest of a\\ sin ! 
.•. cmd o.s the -tino\ announcement th•s mornin9 -we are ask\n9 the wol'l\er. of this parish -\-o b>a'Ke. Soo ca.s5 eroles tor -\-he annu~\ Dioc.e.san Priests' Bo.n\ue.t. 

Focus On America's Fut 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 
~ ~~~!)EC~tJ2~rf'~ 
high-pitched cross-strumming heard in "One Thing Leads to An­other." A majority of the songs contain one or the other. However, I do not mean to say the album Is totally dreadful. "Lose Face," the opener ofthis collection, features some intriguing electronic popping sounds and an appealing melody. I daresay It will be the second single from the album. The first ofcourse is "Are We Ourselves?" a superb song which fits into the memorable category I mentioned earlier. 
Despite its silly chorus, "In Suspense" Is particularly listenable, as are two ballads, or should f say slow songs? "Wish," a definite single possibility, sports a Top 40 melody over subdued guitar chords. "I Will" refreshingly contains acoustic plano and a touch ofcompassion from the normally relentless Cy Curnin, lead singer and lyricist, especially in the haunting chorus. 
The group does experiment on some other tracks. "Less Cities, More Moving People" is powered by a boogie-woogie type beat that, strangely, reminds me of Fleetwood Mac's "Tusk." Needless to say, the group's instruments sound like any other Fixx song, except on the eerie synth hook that pervades occasionally. "Lost in Battle Over 
J. Merkel 

Seas" has a promising Moody Blues­lyrics develops the themes present like keyboard beginning, but alas it throughout the band's history. falls back into the same old Fixx Curnin writes with great interest pattern in the verse. about the complexities ofmodern 
life, human identity, and nuclear 

The group's lyrics, all written by war. "Lose Face" exemplifies the Cy Curnin except "Woman on a last category. He says, "We all Train," are hard to understand breathe in the same air/ Yet we all because no lyric sheet Is included die for the airspace ... I bet you're and Curnin sings anything but too scared to lose face," bringing to clearly. What I did catch ofthe light obvious world tensions and 


Stand up for H.T.H.'s! 
by Scott Ebersol 
features staff writer 
arn , I miss her!" I quickly Dlooked up from the beer I had been pondering upon for the last couple of minutes. "What?" was alii could bellow out, staring down the bar. "I miss her. I mean she's 2000 miles away, and I can't stop thinking about her." Well, either this guy has had one too many quarter beers or we have to have a long talk. 
I'd seen that look before: kinda' glassy eyed, looking out to nowhere in particular, sniffling every now and then, shaking his head question­ing even the oddest of remarks. Yeah, he was hooked. 
"What's her name?" "Lisa." A long sigh followed. Yup, he was whipped. An HTH, what a way to go, to spend a night at Notre Dame. You know the feeling? You met her one warm June night · maybe it was on the beach or at some greasy hamburger joint · could have been in jersey or downtown L.A.. But wherever it was, you thought you were in paradise. And then all those summer nights that followed: you went to see "Purple Rain" because she thought Prince was 'hot'; you spent nights -Fridays · laughing over a couple ofice-teas or punches; or you sat around wasting the night listening to The Boss or watching "The Chill." Whatever the case, whatever you were doing, it's all the same · it comes with the package. 
"We had so much fun, you know?" he looked over sipping his beer. Yeah, right, I know. "So what's she doing while you're out here?" A blank stare, then a bright smile lights up his face. Oh no · he's going to tell me all about the letter he got from her today. Give me a break. 

You know· all the cute things she 
has done, how much she misses him, all her plans, how she can't wait to see him In Chicago. The fragrant list goes on forever. You need a calandar to get everything in. But whatever she says, you know it always feels great to see that letter in the box. 
"How's the phone bill?" I couldn't resist to hit him where it really hurts. He grabs another beer. "It's not as bad as you think. It's worth hearing her voice, you know." Yeah, it's eleven, and the rates are down. Gotta call the wife. Sitting in the hallway, kicking your roommate out for "just a couple of minutes." You slowly dial the num­ber. It rings. "Hello, I'm so gald you called." Yeah, I know, and you love it. 
"So, how often you write?" A dumb question, I know, but after a few beers you say whatever comes to mind. "Oh, a couple · alright as much as I can, even if it's just to say hi." Then that strange stare returns. It's not like a puppy or some macho-type -it's hard to describe, but you all know what I mean. That's what they can do to you · even here. 
He looked at me like that for a couple of minutes, and took a deep breath. "You know what? I write her a lot, I call her whenever I feel like it, I send her cute little thing~ And where has It gotten you? You're sitting here complaining to me, reminiscing, drinking. She's only an HTH. Come on. 
the folly ofunrelenting positions. 
"Are We Ourselves?" asks the basic question of all modern men and women -what Is my Identity? who am I? Likewise, "In Suspense" suggests man is not what he thinks himself to be: "one route for the species and another for the men." Unfortunately, this song's chorus falls Into silliness: "We're In suspense. It's who, what, where, and why." 
The two love songs provide this ... album with a new dimension for the Fixx. In these two, the theme of compassion and "placing myself In your shoes" presents Itself. Unfor­tunately, "Wish" also suffers from a banal chorus. "Your wish Is my sentence" sounds like what cliche? 
As I listen to this album over and over again while writing this review, the music begins to grow on me. Still, upon first listening, the material sounds all the same. Sometime in the ncar future, the band Is going to have to alter Its course, at least slightly. 
"Deeper and Deeper," a Fixx track appearing on the Streets of Fire soundtrack, docs not appear here but would definitely Improve the collection. Overall, unless you're a big Fixx fan, you're better offbuying the "Are We Ourselves?" single with "Deeper and Deeper" on the flip side than investing In this album. 
He turned away In a huff. "You just don't understand." 
But the fact is everyone who has met that certain someone on that special night understands. The ridicule, the unexplained depres­sion, the joking -It all goes along with college. Its part ofthe package. And Notre Dame's no different. An HTH -thinking about It in those terms brings a chuckle to your everyday mundane existence. 
You've got a Home-Town-Honey, and all the memories, letters, phone calls and plans that go along with It are as much a part of college as drinking, sleeping, and football. The only real difference Is that when it is all over, she may still be there. But then, that is about as sure as getting a job with a history degree. 
There I go. OK, I'll come clean. So, the week she was here was great -eat your hearts out. And who cares about the phone bills? It's only money, right? But an HTH? 
"You ever have one, an HTH?" I ordered another beer as quickly as possible. Looking around, "Yeah, I've got one, and you know what? I lo ... " And why shouldn't I? 
For the first time In four years, it's time to stand up for something important, and I don't mean Captain Crunch, Notre Dame social life, or even the dreaded drinking policy. But yes, the HTH! I know I'll see In a couple of days another Henrys, a Tommy burger, Westwood, but that's not the point. Then what Is? 
"Dig ,if you will, the picture." Humming, "you know ... " He was gone. All that remained was his fresh beer. Ah, he probably had to leave to call her. "What the heck, we're all going to die." "HTH's · darn, I miss her ... " 

r-------------------~-----­
The Observer Thursday, October 1.1, 1984-page 8 
lhe Obsen•er Notre Dame ortke. located on th<· third tloor of LaFortune Student Center. acn·pts l'lassitkd adn·rtising from 9 a.m. until -1 p.m.. Monday through Friday Th<' Ohsat•<'r Saint ,\lary's office. located on the third tloor of llaggar Collq~e Centt·r. at-cepts l'lassitkds from 12:50 p.m. until 5 p.m...\1on­dav though Friday Deadline t(Jr next-day l'lassitleds is -~ p.m. All dassitkds 
must be prepaid. t•itbn in person or b)' mail. Charge is 1 0 cents r>n fiw· charac­ters per day. 


Classifieds 

SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? MY LITILE SISTER WANTS TO Need 4 Stud. Tix to S.Carolina game. Call WARNINGIll Pollet" enough with the crutches, the sym­I need a rldll to Syr. for October braak. CELEBRATE HER 18TH B-DAY BY Paulx3666. WARNINGIll pathy routine is getting very old! NOTICES Can leave Thuradlly evening or 
COMING TO THE PENN ST GAllE. IF WARNING!!! 

anyUma Frldlly. Wlft ahara uaual. Call YOU CAN HELP ME OUT WITH A MUST SELL 4 PENN ST GA'5-CALL I HATE DIRTY NEGA liVES Blllat1420. TICKET SHE WIU. BEAR YOU A SON! BUBBAORDAVE3278 URBAN PLUNGE APPUCATIONS ARETYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
CAU. MARY AT 21182 TOOAY FOR DUE TOMORROW -TURN YOURS IN SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? THIS OPPORTUNITY OF A UFETliiEI 4 SALE:3 AIR FORCE STU. TIX. 1 AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­TYPING SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! 
I need a rldll to Syr. for October ~k. S.CAR. STU. BEST OFFER CALL 1305 CERNS.
Jackie Boggs SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! 
Can leave anyUma altar the game on DON'T SELL ME YOUR TROJAN tick­684-8793 
SELL YOUR at 284-11011. 

Saturday. WIN.,._ uaual. Call De~~~~~a eta. I need your PENN STATE G.A.a. ME SOUTH CAROLINA SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! 
Call Nick at 11180. TICKETS!!MY GRANDPARENTS ARE COMING IN FROM THE GREAT CITY 22 MONTHS!!! IT SEEMS LIKE A LONG TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
I'UL SEUL MY TRO.JAN'S In order to TIME AGO.BUT TIME FLIES WHEN UNITED WAY 12-14 SMC Tammy 5181 buy S.C. G.A.a. Call Barry at 3815. BAD!!WILL PAY WELL. CALL MOLLY YOU'RE HAVING FUN;AND IT SEEMS UNITED WAY 
Need ride to and or from MI,Detroit Oct OF PITISBURGH--NEED TICKETS 
TYPING HRVICE AS IF I FIRST MET YOU YESTERDAY.! UNITED WAY

2923.
m.-.s 

AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-t308 HAVE HAD THE BEST TIME I HAVE Please give. Thank you. 
COME & EXPERIENCE ONE PICKUP AND DEUVERY EVER HAD. THANK YOU FOR PUT­

HELP!!!REALL Y NEED 2 SOUTH FOOD&DRINK ol the AREA'S MOST EXCITING 

Help I need 2 Penn State GA tix.lf can CAROLINA TICKETS--STUDENT OR TING UP WITH ME.YOU ARE THE help please contact Ann Marie 284-4381. G.A.-WILL PAY WELL! CALL CAROL BEST, GOOF.LOVE,THE ONE WITH Ordet' a B-day cake from NO cake service ESTABLISHMENTS
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-11187 at Irish Gardens! NOW!ff 
THE BIG NOSE. 
H.l.'s Old Town Saloon, 213 Front St., 2923 Nilee, Mich., is now accepting applica­
NEED LSU TICKETSIII 
Want to get to Long leland tor Fall break? 

We need them. We want them. We love TRADE!WILL TRADE 2 PARENT'S NO­Springsteen live tapes from the 75 and 78 tionsforWaitatllff, Bartendet', Heat-.
Ride the Long lllland club bus for only tours. Great live versions of Born to Run, 

Doormen. & Bus Staff. Only experienced them. Call Vince at 2538 or James at SOUTH CAROLINA TIX & $FOR 2 PENN 68.00Sign upathisSundey Oct. 14 at4:00 

need apply. 684-7774 2530. STATE GA'S CALL ROWELL 1434 Rosalita, Badlands, Twist and Shout. 
p.m. In Lafortune LOOby. 

Fire, Thundet' Road, and many more. 
UFE SLURPS??? 6 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE-BEST VerygoodiiOllnd,ONLY$10. Cal12036 
OFFERS 1528, ERIC Ride or Riders needed to Toronto ov"' Gartland, DelVecchio and Sons present...

URBAN PLUNGEI!I Break. Call Vicky 284-5013. 

DANE GALDEN ESCORT SERVICE 
RIDE DESPERATELY NEEDED TO IU "For all your dining and GRINDINGURBAN PLUNQEIII 
HELP! NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PERSONALS BLOOMINGTON THIS WEEKEND­PENN ... CALL SUE 3843 OCT. 12-14!!1 WILL SHARE EXPENSES. 
URBAN PLUNGEIII Need ride to Chicago suburbs this Fril Will needs" Soon to be available-THE DANE pay.PIMM caU 4327(SMC) GALDEN BLOW UP DOLL! CALL 283­

CALL PATI1283-4015. 1DYC-THAT'S ALL IT TAKES!
AN EXPERIENCE YOU WIU. NEVER GIVE TO THE UNITED WAYHH! Please. 
Wan1 to exchange my 4 student tickets to break. Will share coeta. Call Kria at SMC-HEYI WHAT ARE YOU DOIIIIINNGOG? 
FOAGETIII Need Ride to Jeff.City or KC area for fall 

S.Car. & Penn for 4 GA's to each game. Wishful Thinking : 
OH GOD, DO I NEED LSU TICKETS! Oh 
GETYOURAPPUCATIONSFROMTHE 5061. Ph.272-7412. Well, If you're not dOing anything during Ronald Reagan taking a political science 
yes, I do! Oh, do I need them! Oh yes!
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNSIII Fall Break and you think you might just class ... 
Yes! I need them! Uke you wouldn'tI HAVE AIR FORCE STUDENT TIX. I
Ride needed to Williamsburg, VA lor Fall want to go to N-Orleans and have the believe! Oh! Yes! LSU tickets! Oh yes!

AIESEC IIEETlNG CHANGED TO Break. P'-call Stephanie at 2n-WIUL TRADE FOR S. CAROLINA TIX time of your life, how about taking my Oh! Oh! Aaaaaaahhhhh!!l 

TUESDAY, OCT. 11, AT 7 P.M. IN 5620. Thank You I!II (277-7570) $100 depoait off my hands for the mere PAT OSHAUGHNESSY ... love that butt!! I 
Please caN Steve at 2658. UTTLE THEATRE LAFORTUNE think you have asexy chest. too. 
IN pries of $50? It's a steal, if you ask me. (NO). NEED HELP FOR TELEPHONE SALES the girl in Econ. 
2 Air Force stud. tickets for sale. Call232-Call Dray at 2807. Okay? NO EXPERINCE REQUIRED APPLY IN 
4525 or 283-2no. 

FINANCE CLUB MTG Genet"al & NYC PERSON !H 2015 WESTERN AVE. THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE Pebbles-Miss you. Bam Trip 1 22 Hayee-Haaiy 7 PM Thrus Oct 11 SIUTE 124 SOUTH BEND WORLD
$$$$$$$$$$$ I AM DESPERATE needs a ride to Buffalo for Fall Break! Mora -1mualcat N.D.! The Bllnglae,a I need 3 South Carolina GA's together!!! 
KISS! KISS! Ridet'S needed to and from Cleveland for Whaddeya think, huh? Ten hours in an hot all-bMutHul-end-1111-Md band, Break. Call Paul, 4284 WiUing to buy orbflter; I have 3 singles lor ilsy bitsy little car with the equivalent of N.D CREW; ROCCO SAYS GIMME A
P'-Ya &qp8n Canter Sunday Oct. 14. the same game ... Victoria Principal? I can leave anytime. Opened for Flock of s..guNa, 1881 .,._ COUNT: 2,2,3,2.2,2,BURP ,FRANK. NEED RIDE TO BOST. 10/19&BACK.$$­Call Andy aftet' 7 at 272-2873 Call Nance at 284-5439. Remember ... bum got 3.5 at8raln RoiHng Stone, a BOW TWO AIN'T AFRAID OF NO ·3691 TOM _, on M1V and hMid on radio -SCALES!fff WHERE'S DICKY'S FAT ME­
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE 
............................................................... WORLD 

Uone -the US of A-"A Hero TER? Q:WHAT DO OARSMEN DREAM I NEED 2 air force GA'S CALL JIM 3634 
SOUTH JERSEY RIDERS NEEDED for Takaa a Fall"II Coma move your f­ABOUT? A.DANCJN' B.CURLEY AND Oct Break call John at 234-9346 and ullvata, guya. Gh18 keep your THE THREE BEARS C.OUINNER'S
LOST/FOUND 

boyalnllnal SHOTS AND COKE AT MIDWAY Ride to No. NJ ovet" Oct. Break. Would like to leave aftet" the game Call Janet at 284-The Flo are comlngll The Flo are N.D CREW O:WHO WILL BE BLARBED? 
NEED 3 air force TIX GA's or STUDS LOST ON TWO SEPARATE OCCA­/ain't afraid of no ghost
JOHN 1219 SIONS 3 IIJIACELETI-2 PEARL, 1 -Ray Parker, Jr. 

4340 comingII A.ROCKET-A·RUOSER 
B.PAUL"LEADFOOT" SHERMAN. 
GOLD and 1 GOLD BRACELET 
For s.la: 2 GA'a for the South Carolina DURING THE WEEKEND OF 
Need a Ride to St. Louis for Fall Break. 

Game. Callllellndll at 3716 SEPT.22.1F FOUND PLEASE CALL 1759.REWARD 2 G.A. 'S NEEDED FOR AIR FORCE. Naad rldll to vicinity of Buffalo (St. Emotion is a virtue, For you it is the one HEY N.D.CREW PSYCHO WO­CALL RON 3528. fatal naw. The Bllnglaa MEN ... CLEAN YOUR BOA Till 
CaN Pat 284-4697 

Bonaventura Unlvaralty) for llraak. help oh oh help Ill My lllck8y llouaa Campus rep to run Spring break vacation WIH .,._aapanau. Calllllkaat 24118. Watch haa run -,.. I think that par­trip to Daytona Beach. Earn tree trip and ATIEN110NI SENIOR CLASS PARTYIIIII WELCOME WELCOME ROLL OUT THE hapa he Ia lurtdng Mout O'llh8g money. Send reeume to College Travel H.l.'a Old Town· Nllaa, Ml RED CARPET FOR THE NUTTY 
-.:!lingfor the,.....of a liberal edu­Unlimited, P.0. Box 6063 Station A. Need one PENN STATE GA or Student Need ride to Warren-Youngatown,Ohio 8:30-???????? ALUM!ff cation. Help •ck8yfind hla ayhorne. Daytona Beach, Florida 32022, indude area for Oct.Break. Will share ex­Frldlly 12th
ticket. Buy or trade. Call Brian 1930. 

I mlaa him. Cal Anna...,.. a4244. phone numbers please. pen888. Please call Elaine 4117(SMC) HEY KELLY IGOE!f! 
Kathy Balane, the Bop OJeen ol Farley Need a ride to Ft.Wayne for break.WiH Go King ... Beat GRE!! Hey Mo, Het"e's hoping you make your HUNGRY?? ORDER DELIVERY SER­help pay.Call Judy-SMC5465 
Hal turns 20 and -know SHE Bop I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL JIM love connection. VICE FROM THE YELLOW SUB­(And you called me a dyke) Happy 3467THANKS MARINE 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11pm Birthday Kathy and hope that you don't go Rldee needed to Pitts.area &-19 or back to 
FR-SA8pm-1am
NO &-28.Call if you can help eithet" ································································ 
blind! P-and Love, Bopper. IIATIEN110NII

Two STUDENT nxs lor Air Force gamewayl284-4297 toraale.Makeoffer 2n-3170 Today Is Chris's 25th birthday! He wiN be DEAR JJD WARM HAND5-COLD accepting toktm birthday applfJs across HEART?SEE YOU AT MAS5-CH321
I NEED A RIDE TO MONTREAL FOR THE MIDTERM VACATION CAN SHARE EXPENSES PLEASE CALL MARTIN 
NEED RIDE TO MIDWAY AIRPORT FRI. St. Joe's lake throughout the day! 
1D-19:MUST LEAVE NO 12-1:30.CALL

Help Crl.-topparal A grey wool Irish HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRIS 
TIM 1045. 233-1314 FOR SALE: 4 AIR FORCE GA'S (togethet" 

cap wu "borrowed" from a redheed at an Justthink, you're a quartet" ol a century old 
O.C. parly last Friday. Girls. piMae return John Heaaiey, the man with his finget" in today -sowhat do you have to show for 25 the hat, pronto! No questions esked. his ear. years of clean living? Happy Birthday
Need ride to Milwaukee or Madison for fall on the 30yd. line) beet offet" calf 2333 METRO!!!!METRO!!!!METRO!!!! The break. Would like to laave Fri. Oct. 19. N-York Metro Club will be holding sign­
Great sentimental value! 106 Dillon. anyways!! 1582. Did you know that B.P. had a SYR Friday? luv,
Call Jay at 1655. Have 4 AF GA's together to sell togethet". ups for the October break bus Thursday, 233-2698. Oct. 11, at 7:00 pm in Lafortune (second 
Did you know that It was a "Barn Dance?" assorted corrupted juveniles RIDERS NEEDED TO BUFFALO FOR Isn't that fitting? floor). The bus will leave aftet" the game on LOST: BROWN CLUTCH PURSE IN 
OCT. BREAK. LEAVE 18TH. APROX. 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE. MIKE Sat. Oct. 20. Pricee: Port Authority-$80,
LAFORTUNE ON FRIDAY OCT.6. 

3336. White Plaina-$85. Be thet"e early--FIRST
PLEASE CONTACT TRJSH AT 232-{)467 4:30 RETURN SUN. 28TH-RICK 4384 UTILE TOMMY TORTER says, "Screw In the continuing Set'ies of SKID ROW per­
COME-FIRST SERVED' 
IF FOUND ... PLEASE! REWARD. everybody, before they get you first." sonals SKID ROW.... sornetimes you NEED RIDE BACK FROM ATLANTA TO 
MY FRIENDS WIU. DIE IF YOU DONT have to say.. what the HECK. 

NO FOR OCT. BREAK. CALL JOHN SELL ME AT LEAST 4 S.C.TIX. CALL UTILE TOMMY TORTER BOSTON CLUB BUS OCTOBER
LOST: TWO GOLF UMBRELLAS AT 

1161 MARTY AT 3528 BREAK BUS SIGNUPS ON
THE STADIUM. ONE IS RED AND 0: WHY DO EEs HATE CHEGS SO WHITE, AND THE OTHER IS BLACK LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS!! MUCH? A: BECAUSE THE CHEGS AL­
THURSDAY OCTOBER 11, AT 7:30PM NEED RIDE TO TX. CALL STEVE AT For sale: 3 S. Carolina tickets. Call Pati at 14, 4 LaFortune IN LAFORTUNE ON FIRST FLOOR. WAYS IN AT UN­
AND WHITE AND SAYS "BILL KIDD" ON SUNDAY OCT. p.m. CUT LINE THE IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 3578 4284. 3025 lobby BE THERE!! round trip 68.00. watch EMPLOYMENT OFFICE. 
PRICE IS $110 ROUND TRIP. BUS 
LEAVES AT 6:30PM ON SATURDAY Riders needed to the TWIN CITIES. AFTER THE SOUTH CAROLINA GAME. 
-THANKS. mail for furthet" details. 

SLOPPER: That "Peart Necklace" in 10/19 through 10/28. call Bill at 3214. COKE IS IT 
your room belongs on someone etae. Get "it" straight next time! 
Hay all you patrloUc, fraadom.lovlng Americana out thara. lly dtatant

3 LOST: A COACH'S MIND BETWEEN HAPPY BIRTHDAY DOUG!!! HOPE 
SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! CINCINNATI AND SOUTH BEND. IF coualna haVe Juat bean granted COKE IS IT THAT YOU HAVE A "SUPER" DAY! TE SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO MOEL­QUIERO MUCHISIMO! LOVE. JUL 
parml..,on to ammlgrata to the U.S. 

SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! LER HIGH SCHOOL, CINCINNATI, 
FOR SALE For the flrat Uma In their llv•, my OHIO ralatlv• wll be ,_ to do and ­

JANET, THANK YOU FOR THE BEST 22 thlnga that their oppraalva communlat 
COKE IS IT MONTHS,EVER.WHAT DO YOU SAY Go lolanudo!! Beat Tigers !I Loet: A black and white bead necklKe, WE KEEP A GOOD THING GOING?
REAL NATIONS DON'T FREEZE government refuNd to 1at lh«n do NUKES; An election primet" for all votet"S.
Sat nite. Sentimental value. Call Ruth balora. It Juat eo happana that my LOVE, JOHN 2673. Thanks. 

Sand $3.75 & $1.45 p&h toN-Features blood ralatlv• wiH be allowed to laava Syndicate, 8000 E Girard, 119 S, Denvet", Ruulaln a few....,., and they aakad HOCKEY Mary, am I really THAT boring ??? 
VARSITY RETURNS IN
C080231. Friday night Pangborn Hall returns to the

LOST: MAN'S GOLD SEIKO WATCH me to If there -any w.y they could THREE WEEKS! 
Notre Dame map with COKE IS IT! 9:30 
-anAll-American footbell game. So For Sale: 2 Tickets, NOva. Air Force Oct. THE social space. BE thet"e,'but watch out 

WITH GOLD AND SILVER BAND OVER support your local hockey team 
luld I'd look for ticket& for the Nov. 11 13, '84. Call 233-2163 or 234-sn8. PENN STATE game. Now It'a up to you for F.B.I. agents. 
THE WEEKEND. IF FOUND OR HAVE 
ANY INFO AS TO ITS WHEREABOUTS, to ull me two ticket& eo that a couple

CALL DAVEAT3049. REWARD!! REVENGE IS SWEET: A hickey is always BALTIMORE-I have room for one pet'­
I have one Stud. Airforce ticket, but I'm not I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR
of Ruaalan Immigrant& can -afoot­

a hickey. son going to baltimore OVet' break call 
going to be here. Need a ticket; call2741. ball game. II you can oblige, plaaaa call BREAK. CAN LEAVE RIGHT AFTER

LOST: BLUE EG CONCEPTS BINDER. George at 1422
THE GAME AND WILL PAY THE USUAL. 
Tomlnaky at 11180NEED BADLY!! CALL 2763. 
CALL MAUREEN AT 1333. 

PUT YOUR MONEY WHERE YOUR 1GA TICKET FOR S. CAROLINA GAME. 
MOUTH IS! 

SKID ROW SKID ROW SKID ROW SKID ROW! 
FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE TIX, CALL 513-574-5314. 
1808

LOST: A WHITE WINDBREAKER WITH KISS for the United Way!! 
URBAN PLUNGE 
A RED AND BLUE COLLAR. POSSIBLY Air Force GA's for sale. Good location. LOST OR TAKEN IN LAFORTUNE Airline ticket 1 -way Dallaa-So. Bend. $50. CaH 272-o805 aft"' 4. 

URBAN PLUNGE LONG ISLAND FOR FALL BREAK. IF URBAN PLUNGE 
THAT'S WHERE YOU'RE GOING RIDE 
BALLROOM. IF FOUND OR SEEN 2n-3237, 7-tOpm. 

THE L.l. BUS ONLY 68.00 ROUND TRIP 
PLEASE CALL TERRY AT 1991. THANK For Sale: 2 AF GA's ... call Maria )4042. 
KNOW A DOMER WHO'S JUST TOO

48 HOURS YOU WIUL NEVER FOR­AND ALOT OF FUN SIGN UPS SUN.
YOU!!! 
COOL? HEAD TOO BIG TO FIT
GETII 

OCT 14 AT 4 P.M. LA FORTUNE LOBBY THROUGH THE OOOR? GET HELP­BE THERE! 
LOST LOST A GRAY WINDBREAKER 

CALL EDS (EGO DEFLATION ON 1D-9. HAS CAR KEYS IN THE POCK­SERVICE)-4096 SEE YOUR CITY FROM THE INSIDE •
DESPERATELY NEED LSU TIXS!! Call Mike2371 GET YOUR URBAN PLUNGE APPLI­ETS. IF FOUND CALL TOM AT 287­CATIONS FROM THE CENTER FOR3037. REWARD 

LONG ISLAND BUS SIGN UPS SUNDAY WANT TO KNOW ABOUT THE PLIGHT SOCIAL CONCERNS-NOWIIITICKETS I win trade Air Force Student nx and/or 
OCT 14 4 PM LAFORTUNE LOBBY OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN? CALL KIM KISSES ... A SOCIAL ALTERNATIVE 
Penn St.Student nx and/or money for 

68.00 ROUND TRIP. ROE RIG 
................................................................ 
PENN STATE GA'S.If you don't trade HELPIII I NEED 3 GA OR PARENT'S 
and/or sell I hope you end up in a swirl­

DID YOU SEE WHEN THE LONG IS­GET AN SYR DATE WITH MIKE NOLAN 
TICKETS FOR THE ND-801JTH ing,sucking eddy of despair.CaH 2777570 WHAT??I! NO PLANS FOil JAN. 7 • 11 

LAND BUS SIGN UP IS HAPPENING? LOTIERY TONITE 143 FARLEY 9:00 
CAROLINA GAIIEIII NAME YOUR ?? 
BE THERE! 
PRICEIII CALL ADAM AT 11108. 
I need two GA'a or two student tix for PENN STATE $$$$$$$Jell, 1004 UVEN UP YOUR UFE-GO ON AN 
WANTED 

SOUTH CAROLINA NEED 2 GAs for S. Carolina game. Ann URBAN PLUNGE! II Z':..ii;~ ..~i;;·;~··~·~ ···.fr~h~~~::··~··;;;~~ 
Will trade 3 end zone GA's 1340 URBAN PLUNGEIll SKID ROW ... professional beer can juniors like you to inform us ol importantNeed Ride To FL for Break, call Karen and 2 student tickets URBAN PLUNGEIll emptiet"S. 
campus trivia. PS: How many back doors 2720816. for 3 respectable GA's. Pa just sold the family cow, Beeaie, so I did you say Sorin has? 4278 could buy tickets for the S. Carolina game. GETAPPIUCATIONSFROMTHECE~ PETE AND RAY SERIAL 6 ... RAY, don't RIDE NEEDED TO DENVER FOR FALL If you want to exchange your tickets for TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS -let them call you baldie snip snip snip. oo.cwii·i·a;;;;i·u;;·~~;;i;:;al•i·w~ BREAK. ANNE 284-5076 NOWIll
BIG BUCKS or BEEF, call Jenny 1340 Don't worry Pete, -·11 get yaf kn-you can do 1111 Love, the group 

Sports Briefs 
The ND basketball team will be holding walk-on tryouts Monday, October 15 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Auxiliary Gym at the ACC. For more information, contact Jim Baron at the basketball office. -The Observer 
The SMC basketball teamwill be holding tryouts for the team today from 4:30p.m. to 6:30p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested may try out. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will be meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All mem­bers who will be travelling to Boston must attend. For more informa­tion, call John Crilly at 283-31 70. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame ski team will be meeting 
tonight at 6:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Anyone inter­ested may attend. For more information, call 283-4354. -The Observer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will be meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Anyone inter­ested may attend. -The Observer 
The ND Women's GolfClubwill be meeting tor the last time this season tonight at 6:45p.m. at Corby Hall. All mem­bers must attend. -The Observer 
NCAA Volunteers for Youth is inviting all ath­letes interested in forming a one-on-one friendship with an area youth to join the program. Interested athletes should call Patti Gal­lagher at 283-2999, Tammy Schmidt at 283-4001 or Dave Clark at 283-1665 by Saturday. -The Observer 
Thursday, October 11, 1984-page 9 
BevacquaHR lifts Padres in Game Two 
Assodatcd Press 
SAN DIEGO -Kurt Bevacqua atoned for a rally-killing blunder in Game One with a three-run homer, vaulting San Diego to a 5-3 victory over the Detroit Tigers last night and a split of the first two games of the 1984 World Series. 
The American League champion Tigers scored three runs in the first inning off Ed Whitson, but this time, Padres Manager Dick Williams made his move before It was too late. Wil­
~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::::::7.:::~::::~~~ Iiams removed Whi~on with one 

""CJ'Qoweng fpn aQQ occagiottg'' 
Come in and Browse 

327 Lincolnway 231-3354 
,-----~ ~R.. -----· 
I EY ~ I
I .PIZZA MANIA. I 
II II 
THURSDAY,OCT.110NLY 

I. $ !:.~..2~F I. 
TOPPINGS: I mushroom, sausage, 1 1 pepperoni I
L----·WITH THIS COUPON·-----· 

~~~:~;::,;:::)~ ~~~i~~~~¥~~ 
:::: :::: up just one hit before he gave way to 

ji ~~~~:,~;~~~::e~~~~~~~~~~:l: KOBEJ~ ~~l~~}tf~~~~~~ 
/South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 277-2870:~:~
.·.· .. 
~::::::::::·:·:·:::::·:::::::::::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::·:·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
IDlrt 1Knigltt.a oftltt <!rastlt 


Men's Hair Styling at its finest minutes from campus 


00 
272-0312 277-1691 

HAIRCUTS
'>~';_',.'> J'nracc Lane 
(~I lhl. 2.'>) 

:\no~~ from Martin's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 


grounder by Bobby Brown that scored Bevacqua to make it 3-2. 
Then, in the fifth, the Padres fi­nally chased Tigers starter Dan Petry, 18-8 during the season, with Bevacqua's three-run homer. In San Diego's 3-2 loss in Game One, Bevacqua had run the Padres out ofa potential rally by stumbling while trying to stretch a leadoff double in the seventh inning Into a triple. But Williams kept his faith in the 37· year-old designated hitter and moved him up three notches to sixth In the batting order. 
His home run came after a walk to Nettles and a bad hop single by Terry Kennedy on a shot that bounced off second baseman Lou Whitaker's chest. 
As he watched the ball sail into the 

left field seats, Bevacqua jumped in 
the air and spun around at first base. 
He pumped the No. l sign with a 
finger as he rounded second, and as 
he trotted around third, Bevacqua 
pressed both hands against his lips 
and blew a kiss to the crowd of 
57,911 at Jack Murphy Stadium. 
Even in his moment of infumy on 
Tuesday night, they had not booed 
him. Now, they cheered him. 
The victory kept the Padres alive as the Series moves to Detroit for games No. 3, 4 and 5 tomorrow night, Saturday and Sunday. No team had ever lost the first two games at home and come back to win a best­of-7 Series. 
Hawkins also pitched two score­less innings in Game One, giving up one hit in reliefofstarter Mark Thur­mond, who had struggled all eve­ning before leaving with the Padres behind 3-2. Hawkins was nearly flawless again last night. He got the "last out in the first and retired 13 in a row before Kirk Gibson led off the 


sixth with a bloop single to left. 
Irish 
continued from page 12 
poin~ for the J6-J4 win. 
It was the worst of games for Notre Dame in game three. Every­thing fell apart and the Irish were far behind early as Loyola took a 8-I lead. A service ace by Morin made the score 8-2, but NO would score no more. The Ramblers won easily, 15-2. 
"It's one thing to lose," said Lam­bert. "And It's another thing to lose like that." Simply put, the Irish didn't play well. 
The road ahead ge~ even rougher for Notre Dame. Next up on the 

1H€ 

HOTHOLlSE 
by Harold Pinter 
A fascinating, hilarious play! 
8 p.m. October 5, 6, 11, 12 & 13 Saint Mary's Little Theatre General Public $3.00 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Community $2.50 All seats reserved Box Office: 284-4626 
~t::M-1E/SNNT' MARYS

IHENRQ___ 

schedule is a trip to Purdue to play the Boilermakers on Wednesday. 
The Observer Thursday, October 11, 1984-page 10 

NUL season opens today; Philly trades Sittler 
Assoclated Press 
After the shattering preseason they've experienced, the Boston Bruins are glad the National Hockey League regular season is getting un­der way. 
The two-time defending cham­pions of the Adams Division have had a rough time in training camp, with injuries to key personnel cas­ting a cloud over their prospects for beating out Buffalo and Quebec in the tough Adams sector. 
The Bruins, who host Pittsburgh tonight in one of nine season openers, saw regular goaltender Pete Peeters severely sprain his ankle in the final game ofthe Canada Cup tournament last month. Peeters didn't get back into action until the end oftraining camp and is not up to par. 
Star center Barry Pederson, who led the team with 116 points on 39 goals and 77 assists last season, broke his hand in a fight with the Nordiques' Mario Marois and will be gone until December. Backup goalie Doug Keans has been ill as well and, on Monday, defenseman Gord Kluzak underwent knee surgery. Kluzak is not expected back all year. 
In addition, Terry O'Reilly and Steve Kasper are coming back from injury-ruined seasons -the pair of forwards appeared in a total of 55 games in 1983-84. 
Whether the Bruins are able to take control of the division could depend on how fast the injuries heal. 
Elsewhere tonight, it's Montreal at Buffalo, Hartford at the New York Rangers, Washington at Philadel­phia, Toronto at Minnesota, Detroit at Chicago, Quebec at Vancouver, St. Louis at Calgary, and Stanley Cup champion Edmonton at Los Angeles. 
Tomorrow, the New York Islanders open at New Jersey. Win­nipeg, the last team to see action, trade, in which they would have ob­Reached at his home in nearby waits until Sunday before hosting tained left wings Murray Craven and NewJersey, Sittler said, "There are a Toronto. Joe Paterson, during an afternoon lot of things going through my head 

Four teams in each division will news conference. at this time, but I don't think it's fair I qualify for the playoffs after playing But Red Wings spokesman Bill comment at this time." 80 games. As the Bruins have shown Jamieson said Sittler has refused to Sittler, entering his 15th season in already, it's tough just staying report to Detroit. "Devellano is pro­the National Hockey League, ranks healthy preparing for those games, testing the deal and is asking John 13th on the all-time goal-scoring list let alone the six-month schedule. Ziegler to void the trade," he added. ( 473), 15th on the all-time scoring 
Jamieson said he did not know list ( 1,094 points) and 16th on the 
Making news in the NHL was a when Ziegler would act on the re­all-time assist list ( 621 ). He is one of trade that may not materialize. quest. 53 players to play in l,-000 or more Detroit Red Wings General Manager "I'm mystified that Philadelphia games. Jimmy Devellano yesterday asked would hold a news conference to an­"It was with a great deal of reluc­NHL commissioner John Ziegler to nounce the trade ... and Sittler says, tance on my part that I traded Sit­void a trade that would send 'I'm not going to go,"'Jamieson said. tler," Flyers General Manager Bobby Philadelphia Flyers center Darryl Sit­Jamieson said he believed Sittler Clarke said. "I have the most respect 
tler to Detroit because Sittler rejected the trade because of for Darryl as a person and as a refused to report, a Red Wings "personal reasons," but added that hockey player. I found out today spokesman said. the 34-year-old veteran "might about the tough part of being a gen­
The Flyers had announced the decide to report tomorrow." eral manager." 
GALLO VERMOUTH 
750 Ml. 
'
Chris' Ice Cream 
MADE THE OLD FASHIONED WAY 
Have any of 16 items mixed right into your favorite flavors! 
Sot OFF any purchase 
with NDI SMC ID one per customer 
1723 So. Bend Ave. -next to Turtle Creek A t. 
Get two free Cokes~ with
Two Free 
any pizza. 
One coupon per pizza. 
Cokes~ 


LANCERS 
750 Ml.

Columbus Day Specials 
HAMM'S 
Reg. or 
light 
CASE 24 CANS 
LITE 
BEER FROM MILLER 
CASE 24 CANS 

"Come On In For Our COLUMBUS DAY SPECIALS" 
Prices Good Thru 10-13-84 
6502 GRAPE RD. 200 N MAIN 254 DIXIEWAY NORTH "1910 UNCOLNWAY EAST MISHAWAKA ELKHART ROSELAND SO. SEND 277-7176 295.6310 272·2522 233·8430
f I 
Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend 
Old Milwaukee 
$2799 
Phone: 277-2151 1hbbl 

Budweiser $3299 
1hbbl
Michelob Light 
$3999 

1hbbl Budweiser $9''
Quarts
Pabst 
$1500
1/4 bbl 


Today____________________Th_u_r_s_d_ay_,_o_c_t_o_b_e_r_1_1,_1_9_8_4__p_a_g_e_ll 
Doonesbury 
III!U,51R,& PO MY 8E5T 
WT 70 I£T YOU /XJaN. 
I'M VERY IIXCITWA8a/T 
!*1/'IS A aJPtWRJTER.., AN/JIM1/NXJ(J(JS 
7Deef60N6! 
I 

Bloom County 
Trudeau 
ASJIN7A5 I setA CALVINKLEIN IMsetJ.ING APP!<a4CH. RECJ./N/116 50WTHII6I I CIIN'T 8/.ACK TliENA66lS 
8a.JMIN,IU 
5TANV TALKJNG AIJOIJT M~ Give YaJEVEI?I­
IT.. R~ 
THJNG I'VUiOT/ JO(JS. 
I I 
Berke Breathed 


Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Irish Influence in the American Labor Movement," Prof. David Montgomery, Yale University , Library Lounge, Sponsored by Cushwa Center. 

•4 
p.m.-Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "New Technique in Surface Vibrational Spectroscopy," Prof. Richard van Duyne, Northwestern University, Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory. 

•4:30 
p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Number of Cycles of Short Length in the Bruijn­Good Graph Gn," Prof. Zhe-Xian Wan, ND, Room 226CCMB. 

•
7 p.m. -Thursday Night FUm Series , "The Dark Mirror," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7 
p.m.-Finance Club Meeting, General & NYC Trip Information, 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by 








The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Challenges 

6 Went quickly 10 Get out! 14 Oust 15 De-(elegant) 16 Busy place 17 Snake 18 Discord 
personified 19 Pavlov or 
Turgenev 20 Rebel 23 Strip of wood 24 Liquefies 25 County In Eng. 29 Yellowish 
shade 32 Influence 33 Chin. or Jap. 34 Goof 37 Part of AM 38 Spark producer 39 Amerlnd 40 Scot. explorer 41 Antelope 

munchies dogs nachos pizza 
TONIGHT 

7:00 & 10:00 Eng. Aud. 
THIS WEEKEND 
DUSTIN HOFFMAN 
Kramer 
Krvs. 



amer 


A
~ 1919C0LUM81A PICTURES INDUSTRIES INC~ 
44--de-sac 52 "-Fan Tutte" 45 Rustle 53 Anthracite 46 --nez 54 Shipshape 47 Oak-to-be 55 Christiania 49 Put to rest today 51 Unbend 56 Diana or Betsy 
Wednesday's Solution 

10/11/84 


THURSDAY LATE NIGHT HAPPY HOUR 10-12 2 for 1 well drinks and $1°0 IMPORTS 
~ 
'Da @. ~ Livelt 
~:> 

~ ~ 
42 Self-esteem 43 Down the 
length of 44 Annul 45 Bridges 48 McCartney or 
Muni 50 Railroad 
employee 57 Lab compound 58 Laugh loudly 59 Statue of sorts 60 Land measure 61 Lost 62 Coin toss 
outcome 63 Fasting time 64 Thin but tough 65 St.-fire 
DOWN 
1 Tenth part: 
comb. form 2 River In Eng. 3 Kids 4 Beige 5 Young actress 6 Precipitation 7 Dollar's value 8 Way out 
9 Mr. Arnaz 10 Black eye 11 Mannerly 12 Call at sea 13 Pavilions 21 Devilfish 22 Augury 25 Wound mark 26 Part of the arm 27 Repetition 28 Street: Fr. 30 Kind of reader 31 Club 33 Bates the actor 34 Ambler the 
writer 35 Spin 36 Lively dance 38 Ziegfeld or 
Holliday 39 Eagle 41 If not 42 Item for artists 43 Sock 



Thursday, October 11, 1984-page 12



S~orts 

ND volleyball team defeated by Ramblers in three straight 

By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
It was an important game for the Fighting Irish volleyball team last night at the ACC -a battle of un­beaten North Conference oppo­nents. But the upset-minded Irish failed in their quest, as the Loyola Ramblers defeated them in three straight games to win the match, 17­IS, I6-I4, IS-2. 
The loss left Notre Dame at 3-I in the conference, while its season mark dipped to 7-8. Loyola assumed sole ownership of first place in the conference with a 4-0 record. 
The outcome of the match left But then things started to happen Irish coach Art Lambert foot-for NO, as it needed to turn thing stomping mad. around and did just that. Following a 
"We played terrible," Lambert Josie Maternowski kill that gave the said. "I don't know what went serve back to the Irish, setter Mary wrong. It's just another team that we McLaughlin turned in a nifty play should have beat. Anyone watching and it was 14-11. Moments later a should have seen that. And I'm get­Maternowski spike, set by McLaugh­ting tired ofsaying that." lin, pulled the Notre Dame within 
In the opening game, Notre Dame one at I4-13. Kathy Baker iced the fell behind II-5. Down II-7, with comeback with a service ace, and all the Ramblers serving, junior Tracy of a sudden the game was dead­Bennington came up with a key locked at 14-14. rejection and it was side-out Irish. But the Ramblers would not fold, Notre Dame pulled within two, I1-and they dashed Irish upset hopes by 9, but the surge fell short and Loyola taking the final three points of the outplayed the Irish to a I4-I 0 lead. game, the final point resulting from 
an NO net violation. The final score 
favored Loyola, 17-15. 

Saint Mary's wins one, Behind the serving of Karen Sapp, the Irish jumped ahead in game two, 6-3. But then the Ramblers nibbled away at the ·!~ad, finally going back
loses one in volleyball 
By PAM CUSICK 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Volleyball team split two matches Tuesday night beating St. Francis, I 5-4, 15-7, while losing a conference match to Gos­hen College, 15-4, I3-I5, I5-9, at Goshen. 
Against St. Francis, the team ex­hibited a tremendous amount of ef­fort with outstanding performances contributed by senior co-captains Molly Baker and Ann Boutton, the Belles' all-district candidates. 
In the match against St. Francis, "everything cliqued," according to Baker, while coach Brian Goralski commented on how outstanding the team rebounded after the tough defeat against Goshen. 
After losing the first game against Goshen, I 5-4, the Belles fought back to a 15-I3 victory, only to lose the last game, IS-9, and surrender the match. 
"They intimidated us," admitted Goralski, "and we missed four orfive lierves throughout the game. We were back to our old ways. 
"Overall, our team's attitude was on top 8-7. The Ramblers held thegood and for a young team with the ball and the lead, but a Baker killtallest player being 5-9, as compared returned the serve to the Irish and
to Goshen's tallest player being 5­they started to roll.
11, we did an outstanding job, and After Kathy Morin smashed a win­
came close to beating Goshen." ner it was even at 8-8. NO, behind
The Belles, Goralski feels, have the fine play of Maternowski,
many outstanding individual players grabbed the next four points, climb­
who utilize their experience and tal­ing back on top, 12-8. 
ent to improve the overall perfor­But then Notre Dame started to
mance ofthe team. sputter. It was as if someone had 
Sophomores Ann Brown and Patty pulled out the plug and the lights ·lbc: Oboavcr!Pctc Lacbco went out. Loyola tied it up at I4-14, GretcbenKraus (5) goesfor tbesplke wblleMary]oHensler(6)Williams are justsome ofthe veteran 

and when the Irish offense went sets up for the block In Notre Dame volleyball action. The Irish 
players. The two setters, freshman 

silent, the Ramblers scored two were generally unimpressive last night, losing to the Loyola
Anne Willard and junior Mary 

Ramblers in three straight games, 17-15, 16-14, 15-2. Chuck
Dilenschneider, set better than they see IRISH, page 9 

Ehrman details the game in his story at left.
ever have, according to Goralski, and are more consistent and more confident now. 
Beats U. of Illinois, 5-3 
Freshman Erin Smith, showed poise in the second game against St. Francis, according to Goralski, while 

SMC tennis team ends long stretch 
Baker and Boutton turned in their usual outstanding performances. By MARK B.JOHNSON Also, Sophomore Mary Reidy and Saint Mary's Sports Editor freshman Kara Tekulve have im­proved with every practice. Although the score only indicates 
Saint Mary's, which currently a 5-3 victory over the University of holds an II-5 record, will compete Illinois at Chicago, the Saint Mary's at Bethel College along with Trinity tennis team extinguished more than Christian College on Thursday. just the Flames on its trip west Tues-

Varsity hockey comes back to ND, Smith cuts squad to thirty players 
By ED DOMANSKY 

Sports Writer 
The return of varsity hockey to Notre Dame is now just three weeks away. And after a season on the club level, 16th-year head coach Charles "Lefty" Smith and his players are anxious to face the challenges that the new campaign will bring. 
Fifty players turned out for six days of tryouts from Oct. I-6. Included in that group were 14 starters from last year's team and ten freshman recruits. That list has been trimmed to the overall 30-man roster. Players are now competingfor the 20 spots on the travelling squad. 
"In tryouts and in the early practices, we look for and work on fundamental skills," said Smith. "Then we begin to put our line combinations together. And we hope that we will have selected the 20 individuals who will be most capable ofgetting the job done for us." 
The enthusiasm among the players is quite apparent as they work to prepare for the more competitive schedule ahead. 
"Everyone is glad last year is over," said co-captian Bob Thebeau. "The team has a real positive attitude and is looking forward to the tougher schedule. Everyone seems to be working a lot harder than in the past." 
The season-opening series is Nov. 2-3 against Penn State in the ACC; and with vacant spots on the roster to fill, due to graduation and one transfer, some of the freshman may be able to step right in and receive a taste ofcollegiate action. 
"The freshman really look good," stated co-captain Brent Chapman. "They're better than we thought; and they'll probably play a prominent role." 
Freshman center Tom Mooney, a native of Pit­tsburgh, says he hopes to be able to contribute, but he realizes that there are a lot of talented players returning from last year's team. 
"I hope to make the travelling squad," said Mooney. 
"It's a realistic goal, but I know it will be tough." 
Another freshman, Mike McNeil from South Bend, is also excited to be on the team, and he too is optimistic about the challenges facing him. 
"I'm really happy to have made the team," said McNeil. "It will be a good experience to workwith guys who are older and better. I'll have to work hard to stay up to their level ofcompetition." 
Junior Gary Becker, who transferred last year from Lake Forest College, recognizes the importance of familiarizing the new players with a new system and a more competitive level. 
"When I came here, I already had experience with college hockey," said Becker. "Getting to be a part of the new team was one ofthe biggest challenges. But the guys really helped me last year. I hope that we'll all be able to provide adequate leadership and motivation for the freshman so that their adjustment is smooth. It's a big transition from high school to college." 
The return of forwards John Tiberi and John Nick­odemus will add further depth to the club. Both were forced to miss the second half of 1983-84 because of academic ineligibility. 
"It's really good to be backagain," said Tiberi. "I don't know yet what my role will be. I just hope that I'll be able to really contribute and help the team." 
Both the players and their coach are anxious to return to action. So when all finally comes together, the experience provided by the veteran·piayers along with the eagerness of the talented prospects should provide fast, exciting hockey action in the months ahead. 
Regaining varsity status has been a big, inspirational lift to the team. And knowing that the upcoming schedule will be highly competitive only furthers the players' desire to work hard. The Irish hockey players take great pride in their sport, so in 1984-85, they hope to show that varsity status is not a mistake and that hockey is for real at Notre Dame. 

day evening as fatigue proved as for­
midable a foe as the scheduled 
opponent. 

Coming off a solid finish in the Notre Dame Irish Invitational, the Belles were forced to maintain their playing intensity and physical stamina for their third consecutive day ofcompetition. Several ofCoach John Killeen's women were playing in their seventh singles match of a 60-hour period, and, according to Killeen, it showed. 
"Most of the women were just dragging," said Killeen, "but we played a good match considering we were super tired." 
Senior No. 1 singles player Debbie 
Laverie, who played a key role in the 
team's fine weekend performance, 
shrugged off an arm injury to do bat­
tle with Kim Kerbis, but as the 5-7, 
6-4, 6-1 score shows, the combina­
tion of fatigue and injury proved to 
be too much of a burden as Laverie 
tired in the latter part of the match 
and had to settle for a loss. 
"Debbie showed a lot ofguts to go out there and hold down the No. I spot so that everyone did not have to move up a position," said Killeen. "She really played well." 
At No. 2 singles, sophomore Mary Carol Hall came back from a first-set loss and a 5-4 second-set match point to down Gigi Otto, 3-6, 7-5,6­2, while earning her fifth win in the last three days. 
"Mary Carol came back from the brink of disaster to win her match and save us," said Killeen. "She has played really well over the last few days." 
Sophomore Caroline Zero defeated Maria Alva, 6-2, 6-3, in their No. 3 singles match, while freshman Susie Craig notched a 6-1, 6-l vic-· tory against Kali Nikitas as she con­tinued an outstanding rookie campaign at her No. 4 spot. 
At No. 5 singles, senior .Renee Yung gave a 6-l, 6· 1 lesson to Susan Lebold, but at No. 6, Chicago's Wendy Szarnecki denied junior Kim Kaegi a victory by a 6-0, 6-0 score. 
In order to save time, and because of the oncoming darkness, the doubles matches were played accor­ding to pro set convention. At No. 3, senior Karie Casey and freshman Kate McDevitt teamed against Nikitas and Cindy Mantia, but the I 0-8 score favored the Flames. 
Zern and Yung clinched the win for Saint Mary's as they triumphed I 0-4 over Alva and Lebold at No. 2 doubles. with victory assured, the No. I doubles match, pitting Laverie and Hall against Kerbis and Otto, was canceled because ofdarkness. 
With their performance this week, the Belles once again proved that it does not take money, but rather heart, to field a squad capable of competiting against the best teams in the district. 
"We have been playing really well as a team and are now able to hold our own against the larger, scholar· ship schools," observed Hall. 
Saint Mary's next plays host to Manchester College on Tuesday to finish its fall dual-match schedule, before traveling to Anderson Col­lege on October 19 to defend its NAIA District championship. 
Air Force GA's 
Several hundred general ad­mission tickets for this Saturday's Air Force game are now on sale at Gate 10 of the ACC from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The tickets cost J16 each and are available to students and 
the  general public  on  a  first­ 
come, first-served basis.  
The  tickets  were  made  

available after the Air Force Academy returned the portion of its allotment that it could not sell itself. 








