
Freshman engineers -page 6 

VOL XIX, NO. 68 the indqwndt·rH ~ludt·nt Ill'\\ ~paper ~t·n ing rwln dame and ~ailll mary·~ WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1984 
HPC decides to place planned coffee houses inside hall party rooms 
JANE KRAVCIK rooms, which don't seem to be used Copy Edtlor much this year." Tayback said he hopes the coffee 
Those hall party rooms which are houses will begin the second week now silent dungeons may find new after break. life next semester when they are Also discussed at the meeting used a.~ coffee houses. were student-fuculty relations. 
Pangborn Hall President Tom Pat McCauley, assistant academic Ryan announced the plans for the commissioner, presented sugges­proposed coffee houses at last tions to the council on how to im­night's Hall President's Council prove these relations. These Meeting. suggestions included asking fuculty 
According to Ryan, the halls members to speak in dorms and par­would he divided Into six groups of ticipating in the hall fellows pro­four halls each. The hall in each warn. group with the best fucllities for the Halls participating in the hall coffee house would host the event fellows program "~dopt" a fuculty one night each month. member and invite him or her to all 
The coffee houses will feature of the social activities of the hall. 
food and live entertainment. Said McCauley called student-fuculty 
Ryan, "People wlll walk In for just a interaction a major problem. 
doughnut or something hut have "People just go to class and get what 
their attention attracted by the live they can... there is so much to gain 
entertainment." from the fuculty." 
According to Ryan, the atmo· sphere of the coffee houses should The council was asked by he "like a bar with live entertain­McCauley to prepare a list of the ment." classes best represented in their 
There will probably be no charge dorm test files. He said the lists from for the events. "If each dorm spon­the dorms would be compiled into serlng the coffee house donates S'5-one so "everyone will have access to l0, that should be enough," said the tests." Ryan. McCauley also asked the council 
Ryan hopes to get "six different to review the recently-released Unl­styles" ofcoffee houses by having six versity Curriculum Committee Final woups sponser the event. Report and submit comments to 
HPC President Chris Tayback Bruce Loehaman, academic coord­commented, "We hope it wlll in­crease the social traffic in the party see HPC, page 3 
MS benefit conducted by student government 
By LISA M. BOYKIN dents, and the alumni," Gioffre News!iM// said. 
Student Body President RobA three-week MTV sponsored Bertino said, "The Idea ofcompe­multiple sclerosis benefit Is being tition betwen the schools that weconducted by student govern­compete with in sports will be anment in conjunction with stu­incentive for student · participa­dent activities. 
tion."
The benefit is part of a Although the plans for whatcompetition between 16 Mid­Gioffre considers to be awestern colleges to raise the "mammath project" are still inlargest amount of money. If the the works, activities such as response Is successful, the pro­video dances, Monte Carlo warn will become a coast-to­Nights, marathons, and an arraycoa.'lt annual event. 
of other social events, are beingBecause It ha..o; a reputation for considered. 
a charitable nature, Notre Dame These activities not only pro­was singled out as one of the vide entertainment for the stu­"strongest contenders" in the dent body, but in addition, bycompetition according to Aline participating, students are contri­Gioffre, chairman of the event. 
buting to the drive, Gioffre said. 
The winner of the contest will be determined on the basis of the Checks have already been most money collected per capita. received from alumni, and Senlor Prizes will include a free concert Bar has contributed 30 percent by one ofthe top five rock woups of the profits received during the as determined by MTV. Penn State week-end. 
This concert would be sched­Arock video dance will kick off uled for the Saturday ofAn Tostal, the festivities which are sched­April 27, and would be free for all uled to begin sometime after ND and SMC students, Gioffre Christmas break (all 16 schools said. MlV will host the con­wlll be competing during the cert, which will be video-taped same 3 week period which has live on campus, and re-broadcast yet to be announced.) on national television. Applications for chairman­
"We want to appeal to the ships of the various committees communlty...to inform them involved in the event are about MS... the residents, the available at the Student Activities churches, the high school stu-office in La Fortune. 
Love your outfit 
These unidentified women participated in the donned Elizabethan costumes. Court dancers, 
Madrigal dinner beld at Haggar Hall at Saint harpsichord music, and other music provided en­
Mary's. To celebrate this annual event, the seroers tertainmentfor those present. 
Legality of school prayer debated by sharply divided Supreme Court 
As8oclated Press corner of a school yard," Denton praying, meditating or vegetating," 
said on the courthouse steps. he said. 
WASHINGTON -The legitimacy "School adminlstrators are so inhib­But Mobile, Ala., lawyer Ronnie of setting aside daily moments of ited that they aren't permitting Williams portrayed the law as a silence for student prayer or medita­anything. You can't even write a reli­"blatant atempt" to get around a tion in the nation's public schools gious article in a school newspaper. 1962 Supreme Court decision ban­was debated yesterday before a It's gone nuts." ning organized prayer sessions from sharply divided Supreme Court. Reagan adminlstration lawyer public schools. 
In a case as politically charged as Paul Bator told the high court that A federal appeals court struck any on their docket, the justices laws such as Alabama's "enhance the down the Alabama law, ruling that it must decide whether state laws al­opportunlty for students to bring violated the constitutionally re­lowing public schools to provide silent prayer as part of their activi­quired separation of church and such periods may mention "prayer" ties at school" as he defended an Ala­state. as one possible activity during the bama law that allowed moments of When Justice John Paul Stevens silence. silence for "meditation or voluntary pressed Baker to explain why a 1978 
Numerous political candidates prayer." Alabama moment of silence law ­this year -including President which does not mention prayer ­Reagan -called for a return oforgan­At least 22 other states have mo­would not suffice as well, Baker said ized prayer in public schools. As Sen. ment of silence laws, but not all of many people did aot realize they Jeremiah Denton, R-Ala., toid them mention prayer. could spend the silent time praying. reporters yesterday, school prayer Is Baton Rouge, La., lawyer John Chief Justice Warren Burger ap­one way of restoring "morality and Baker Jr., defending the Alabama law peared sympathetic to Baker's con­ethics as a centerpiece of American for Gov. George Wallace, said it does tention, at one point asking democracy." not coerce students to pray. "No one 
"You can't. even say grace in the knows whether fellow students are see PRAYER, page 3 
Reagan discusses first budget cuts 
Aisodated Press Reagan met with his advisers for to reach more than 1200 billion 
about an hour yesterday afternoon. next year, to S170 billion. 
WASHINGTON President White House officials said the In previous years, Reagan resisted 
Reagan finlshed an initial round of defense budget was discussed but calls to trim the growth of military 
deciding where to cut domestic that no decisions were made. spending. Speakes refused to say 
spending yesterday and White Later, as the president returned to outright that Reagan has embraced 
House aides Indicated the next the White House after visiting Sen. the idea of reducing the military 
move will be to determine how John Stennis, D-Miss., at Walter Reed budget. 
much the president's planned mili­Army Medical Center, Reagan told "On the early part of next week 
tary buildup must be trimmed to reporters who asked about the we will finalize defense spending," 
fight the flood offederal red ink. budget deliberations: "We're still when Defense Secretary Caspar "We'll have a pretty good fed at wrestling with it. We have nothing Weinberger returns from a meeting the end ofthe day as to how close we yet to say." of allied defense ministers In Brus­
are to our ... budget reduction goal Reagan was due to meet today sels, Speakes said. 
for '85, and I thinkwe can then begin with his Cabinet, Including budget 
to work with defense numbers," director David Stockman. Stockman has told congressional 
White House spokesman Larry White House officials have said Republicans that there Is an 18 bil­
Speakes said before Reagan began they were trying to cut spending by lion target for reducing the planned 
his last scheduled session on domes­S42 billion for the 1986 fiscal year, increases in military spending, but 
tic spending reductions with a which begins next Oct. 1, which Speakes refused to say that Reagan 
dozen senlor aides. may hold the deficit, now projected has endorsed the figure. 
-------~----------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1984-page 2 
,' ' 
' 
,
' 
' 
' 
~ 
, 
,' 
' 
,
, 

In Brief 
The poison gas leak from a pesticide plant in Bhopal, India, has killed 1,000 people, doctors say, and many of the survivors in this central Indian city are threatened by blindness and sterility. The doctors said many of the dead were children and the elderly, who were not strong enough to withstand · or outrun · the lethal cloud that spread over 25 square miles of this city of900,000 on Monday. The methyl isocyanate gas had begun leaking at 1 a.m. from an underground storage tank at a Union Carbide pesticide plant in a poor area ofBhopal. The leak was stopped after 40 minutes, but the gas seeped silently over the city through the early hours of the morning. -AP 
The Rev.Je~sejackson said yesterday, in Chicago, he will visit South Africa in January to focus attention on the plight of blacks living under apartheid, a system he said has been "reinforced" by Reagan administration policies. Jackson saidSouth Africa's ambas­sador, Bernardus Fourie, told him. 
Of Interest 
The sophomore class Christmas party 
will be held in the LaFortune ballroom tomorrow afternoon begin­ning at 5:30. Among the events featured will be horse-drawn sleigh rides, tree decorating, food, music and a presentation of "How rhe Grinch Stole Christmas." Admission is free.· Tbe Observer 
Two Notre Dame bridge players, John 
Adams and Kevin Williams, teamed with South Bend locals Patti Tickfer and Sohail Bahu to win the top spot in the Rookie Grand National Teams duplicate bridge competition Saturday. The team now qualifies for the District 8 playoff in Decatur, Ill., on March 31. Students interested in participating in the second qualifying heat are invited to an introductory team game Dec. 16 at 1:30 p.m. in the St. Joseph Valley Bridge Association Center, 2333 Miracle Lane, in Mis­hawaka's Town and Country Shopping Center. · The Observer 
AirForce ROTC, Detachment 225at Notre 
Dame will hold its fall awards ceremony today at 4:30 in the library auditorium. Professor Eugene Henry of the electrical engineering department will be honored with a meritorious service award for his 30 years service in the 1\ir Force Reserves. He is a 1954 graduate of Notre Dame, and he retired from the Reserves last summer as a full colonel. · The Observer 
The Saint Mary's Law Societyis sponsoring a 
panel to discuss the role of women in the law profession. The panelists will include Jeanne Swartz, a superior court judge of St. Joseph's County, Julie Verhege, an attorney fQr the Women's Legal Clinic, and Claire Boisen, a graduate studentfrom Saint Mary's who is in Law School at Notre Dame. The panel will meet at 7:30 tonight in Madaleva. All are invited to attend and refreshments will be served afterward. · The Observer 
Members of the senior class involved in the 
Big Brother/ Big Sisters program are invited to take their honorary sibling to a pizza party at Showbiz Pizza in Town and Country Mall in Mishawaka. The party will be Thursday at 5 p.m. and sign-ups are this week in the Student Activities office from 9 to 5. The cost will be 
53.25. ·The Observer 

Weather 
A chance of snow is in the 
forecast for this afternoon and tonight, al· though accumulations are expected to be light. It will be cold, with highs in the upper 20s to low 30s. -AP 


The Observer­
lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saim Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· 
mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notrt Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer Is a member of lbe Associated · Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Design Editor ................. Maureen Murphy Design Assistant ........................... Andy Saal Layout Staff.............................. Alex Peltzer Typesetters..................................... Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor ......................... Keith Harrison Copy Editor .................................... Uz Miller Sports Copy Editor ....................... Phil Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor ......... Paul Cimino Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor ................... Ed Nolan Features Layout ......................... Bob Henke ND Day Editor.............................Earl Baker SMC Day Editor ......................... Shirley Ore Ad Deslgn.................... AnnaMarie Furleigh 
john O'Connor Photographer............................. Mary flynn 

Change comes slowly to ND, peer pressures remain today 
There are mornings when I wake up with my mouth tasting like the inside of a decomposing gerbil. Sometimes I hack and wheeze until I think I am having a heart attack at the age of 20. My hands smell yellow. 
I smoke cigarettes. 

Smoking is not common among undergraduates at Notre Dame. For whatever the reason, students who smoke are set apart from the norm, especially men who smoke. It's not that smokers are rejected, exactly. They just aren't quite like everyone else. 
This is a departure from the past. College has always been a time for sowing a few wild oats ·· whether it be smoking, drinking or· some other questionable pastime. The typical undergrad, as seen in old volumes of the Dome, is a disheveled, uninhibited individual. And they almost invariably have a cigarette hanging from their lower lip. 
At other schools this is often still the case. People who don't smoke are usually the ones who feel left out. I 
Dan McCullough 

News Editor 
Inside Wednesd 
timidated by the all-male precedent ofthe place. 
High school was always the place where students 

sneaked a cigarette in the bathroom and flushed the 
butts down the toilet. People smoked then for different 
reasons: to be cool, to be accepted, to do the French 
inhale and blow smoke rings. 
College was supposed to be the place where 

roommates laid in bed smoking late into the night 
talking about the big questions. But most students at 
Notre Dame seem to be content with calling it a night 
after eating a bag ofpopcorn 
from hall foodsales and 

have been in dorm room watching David Letterman. parties at other universities Not that there is anything where there was so much wrong with David Letter­smoke that it looked like Los man, or popcorn for that Angeles on a bad day. matter. There just seems to 
But here it is different. be something missing ·· Why? something more than just 
The answer: Women. tobacco.' 
Coeducation is a There is a definite attitude relatively new thing to problem here. People with Notre Dame. After more long hair, people who dress than ten years, men and wo­like slobs, people who men still are not really com­smoke just don't fit in with fortable with each other's the image ofthe Notre Dame 
presence. At Notre Dame the average student dresses better, is more well· groomed, and is more polite. There seems to be an atti· tude that says, "Since we are at Notre Dame, we better look and act like it." 
Generally, men try to impress the women with their niceness and women try to reflect this expression with their femininity. It really is a vicious circle. 
The stiffness between the interaction of the sexes is preventing students here from letting their hair down. This is not to say that everybody should immediately run out to the 7-Eleven and throw down a buck for a pack of Marlboros. 
You shouldn't b.cause smoking is bad for you. 

The lack ofsmokers at Notre Dame is just a symptom of a disease that is plaguing the vitality of the Univer­sity's social life. 
This could be, as one theory states, because many students come to Notre Dame from private, Catholic, single-gender high schools and the change is somewhat drastic. Or it could be because men think the women of Notre Dame are smarter and the women feel a little in-
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 
Ask one of the 3million Americans 
whdve 
survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. 
IAMERICAN <J!CANCER 
'SOCIETY~ 


* 
student. They are something 
different. They are a kind of 

subculture. 
While subcultures them­

selves aren't necessarily a bad thing, the things that people consider qualifications for membership into the Notre Dame subculture would hardly be considered "radical" anywhere else. It is hard to believe that someone at Stanford or the University of Chicago would be considered part of a seperate group because he or she smoked or wore patched Levis to class. 
Notre' Dame still is adjusting to coeducation. Change comes slowly to this Catholic university. And unfortun­ately, smokers and others who choose not to submit to the social parameters here will have to suffer disapprov­ing glances for awhile. 
Condoning cigarette smoking is not one of my goals. People should be able to decide for themselves if they want to smoke or not. But they should be able to decide without the peer pressures that exist at Notre Dame. 
Observer ciassifieds 
*You* 
jf

Don't Have to Have a 
* WHITE*' 

CHRISTMAS! 
, ..:l::1'..~··' ' ··"~.·, 
Y~..~-* ·* ,:.:: * 
You can get a deep, dark suntan at Fiesta 
Suntan Centers on our UVA SUNTAN BED 
SYSTEM -as safe as the sun! 
8 
TANNING 

/
SESSIONS 
Reg. 39.95 
FIRST SESSION FREE! 
The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1984-page 3 

Alison Pascoe, a trainer from the Animal In­stitute, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, N.Y., demonstrates how Amelia, a 20-year­old Capuchin monkey, can help quadriplegic pa­tients feed themselves. Amelia opened a special juice container and is moving a plastic straw to pa~ tient's mouth during the demonstration at Betty Bacharach Rehabilitation Hospital, Pomona, N.J. 
~---------------,
( CONNECTICUT 
iI CHRISTMAS II BUS I 1 *Stops in Fairfield and West Hartford 1 1 + $80 only ! Round Trip 1 1 * Leaves South Bend at 7:30pm on Wed., 1 1 December 19 from the CCE 1
*Sign·ups on Thurs., Dec. 6; 6-6:30pm at 1 LaFortune
I J
\ * For more information, call Tim at 1108 . 
~---------------~ 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available ... Winter semester... convenient ... spacious ... Laundry facilities ... plentiful parking ... superior maintenence ... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: (219) 234-6647 

GIVE SOMEONE ATAN ,, FOR CHRISTMAS 
Ask about our X-Mas special~ 
TAN~HAWAIIAN 
sun tonn1rg solm 
2n-1o26 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for comptete privacy VISA & MASTERCARD 
Begin began the evening with a brief description of her rise in Canadian politics, which culminated in election to the position of Mini· ster of National Health and Welfare. During the seven years she spent in this position she was responsible for 2'>?~o~fthe total Canadian budget. 


Jrefcuu( 
Information Meeting 
TONIGHT 
6:30p.m. 
Pizza ... slides ... scrapbooks Clubhouse SMC (near Holy Cross Hall) 
Sophomore Class Christmas Party 
Thursday, Dec 6, 5:30-8:30pm LaFortune 2nd Floor 
* 
Horse drawn sleigh rides 

* 
Tree Decorations 5:30-6:30 

* 
The Grinch that Stole Christmas 6:30,7:30 

* 
food and music 


* free admission ~=--...__=-=='~;;;;;;;;;;;;M;;;::;;;;;.Come Stop By! 


AN TOSTAL '85 
Applications for the Executive Board chairpositlons may be picked up at the Student ActlviHes Board office on the 2nd floor of La Fortune Student Center during office hours: 
(9 am • 4:30 pm). All applications must be completed and returned by 
4:30 pm on Dec. 7th atthe SAB office. 
she said. 
She said although her return to the Canadian political scene was theoretically fea-;ible, it was not her intent. 
Begin, who is now teaching in the U.S., said that her decision to teach here was the result ofa deire to 'take a distance' from Canada. 
'IfI wa'i back home 1would still be involved in the political game. And I wanted the opportunity to learn about American culture...We may be superficially similar but we are really very different,' she said. 
In reference to the recent cam· paign, Begin noted that the repeated references to religion came as a 'great shock' and commented that it would not be tolerated in Canadian politics. 'Never in Canada has a politician given a speech about reli· gion in politics. 
HPC 
continuedfrom page I 
inator. The report reviews the pres· 
ent curriculum of the University. 
Tayback said, "The opportunity to 

review it is important. We really 
have a say in this. They are going to 
be taken seriously-there should be 
effects from it." 
There will be a Christmas Fair in South Dining Hall next Wednesday, Dec. 12, from 3 to 6 p.m., Tayback announced. Highlights of the event, which is jointly sponsored by Uni· versity Food Services and Student Activities Board, will include: demonstrations on ice carvings, pre­paring hors d'oeuvres, baking and decorating Chrl'itmas cookies, and building winter scenes and gin­gerbread houses. 
The South Dining Hall will be closed for dinner that evening, but North Dining Hall will serve "a quick-service type" menu, Tayback said. 
Lewis Hall wa'i awarded the Sow­der award at la'it night's meeting by Walsh Hall President Gretchen Froehlke. The award Is given each month to the hall with the best activ­Ities. 
Prayer 
continuedfrom page I 
Williams, "Is a teacher telling stu­dents anything more than what the Constitution guarantees · that they have a right to pray silently?" 
But Justice Thurgood Marshall, suggesting that the law's real pur· pose was to promote prayer, asked Bator: "didn't (students) have the right w pray silently before this statute was passed?" 
The court will take a preliminary, secret vote in the case today, and an­nounce its final decision byJuly. 
Wednesday, December 5, 1984 -page 4
The Observer 


r .1R-.H'1'R
l\i.L
, ' ~rr ' 
' 
r .-\\DtR)t\ 
r 
6@·
r 
r 
r 
The Observer/Maggie Kersten 
Please, can I have a job? 

Sbeila O'Brien, a manager of Artbur Andersen, Sbary at yesterday's Career Carnival in tbe Angela talks witb sophomores Patti Novak and Dee Dee Atblettc Fact/tty 
Bishop says 
U.S. policy is 'un-Christian' 
Assoclated Press 
WASHINGTON · Black Anglican Bishop Bishop Desmond Tutu called President Reagan's South African policy "immoral, evil and totally un­Christian" yesterday and offered to meet with the president before flying to Europe to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, 
Reagan's chief spokesman said no meeting was planned. 
Tutu brought members of the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Africa to their feet, in a standing ovation highly unusual for a con­gressional hearing, after saying the administration's policy of quiet diplomacy toward the white 

~ minority-ruled nation "is giving 
r democracy a bad name." 
"We are talking about a moral

r 
issue," the bishop-designate of johannesburg said, declaring that South Africa's apartheid policy of ra­cial segregation "is evil, is immoral, is un-Christian, without remainder," "In my view, the Reagan adminis­tration's support and collaboration with it is equally immoral, evil and totally un-Christian," Tutu said. "You are either for or against apar­theid, and not by rhetoric," he added. "You are either in favor of evil, or you are in fuvor ofgood. You are either on the side of the op­pressed or on the side ofthe oppres­sor. You can't be neutral." 
Nineteen people, including seven House members, have been arrested during a 2-week-old series of demonstrations outside the South African embassy here. The protest spread to New York on Monday, where four arrests were made at the nation's consulate, and organizers said it will extend to other U.S. cities where the Pretoria government has diplomatic offices. 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes said, "There are no plans to meet," He said Reagan had sent Tutu a "'w~m congratulatory message" ,..-ku the bishop was announced the wmmeroft.I-Je Nobel Peace Prize ear­Rim dlis year. 

Philadelphia Club 
Bus $70 Round trip ! Leaves ND December 19 Sign-ups wed., Dec. 5 8 p.m. LaFortune 



COUPON uitars and 20°/o off accessories with this ad 

COLLINS MUSIC 
919 S.Mtchlgan St. S.B. 234·7548 
Now you can commute to work,
.__--: 

catch a flight or eJ\joy the day shopping with United Limo's dependable downtown Chicago service. 
Ride United Limo to Midway Airport and Downtown Same Day Rerum CALL YOUR TRAVFJ.-AGENT OR UMITED UMO 
674-6993 
10844 U.S. 20 (one and one-half miles east of Bittersweet) Osceola, Indiana 46561 
Herbert Blaize elected new leader of Grenada 
Associated Press 
St. George's, Grenada -Herbert Blaize became Grenada's new prime minister yesterday with an over­whelming victory in elections that returned democracy to this Carib­bean nation nearly six years after a leftist coup. 
Unofficial results from Monday's balloting gave Blaize's U.S.-backed New National Party 14 of Parlia­ment's 15 seats, and the opponent who won the 15th said he would resign because of election "discrepancies." 
The United States led an invasion ofthe island after the Marxist regime collapsed in a bloody power struggle last year, with Prime Mini­ster Maurice Bishop among those slain. 
Blaize took his oath of office at Government House from Governor­General Sir Paul Scoon, who had ap­pointed an interim council to run the island after the invasion. 
The 66-year-old attorney also said he had sent a letter to President Reagan asking that U.S. "security forces" on Grenada remain "until such time as we have a fully equipped and trained Grenada police force." 
There are about 600 U.S. and Caribbean troopers still on the is­land. 
Marcel Peters of the United Labor Party was the only opponent of the New National Party to win a par­liamentary seat, and he said he would resign because of "discrepencies in the election process." 
Blaize said ofPeters, "Ifhe resigns, he resigns because he feels too damn lonely." 
Blaize led the government once before, in 1962-67, when the island was a British colony. 


JUNIOR Class Ski Weekend To Sugar LoafMountain Weekend ofJan. 25-27 2full days ofskiing, w nights at the park Place Hotel. Round trip transportation & wine and cheese party! Cost is $82.00. $25.00 Deposit due by Dec.7th. 
Sign-ups: Dec. 3rd -4th, 7:00pm Lafortune Info. desk. or call John Spatz at 283-1150 
F".r.r.rJ.)O""..o-..r..r..r..r....-....-....-....ooocooc:v-...oococoo-.r.rJ.:Y"..o-..r..r..r....o 8 
BOSTON I 
§  Juniper Press announces  ~  
~  the arrival of  ~  
§§§  §§§  
~  HORSE DIED  ~  

~ NEED RIDE TO
§ A collection of Observer classifieds . . . § 
~S Available now ~ § at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ~ ~ Bookstores § 
§ ~ 
Q"'.r....-..r..r..r..r..r.r..r..r..r....oo--.r..r..r..o-..r..r..r..r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r.r..r.r..r..r..r.r..r..r.r..r...o 
Get two free Cokes~ with

Two Free 
any pizza. 
One coupon per pizza. 

Cokes® 

View~_o_i_n__t________w_e_dn-es-da...y,_De-ce_m_be_rs_, l-98_4_p_age_s 


Teaching must be a way of life for Notre Dame 
lbe progression from my senior year of To succeed, teaching must not merely be an 
high school to my freshman year of college occupation, but a way oflife. 
was one giant leap for me and one small step Teachers are a family of individuals who 
for manklnd. make most out of each Individual. Unlike the 
Since my first few months at Notre Dame, artist, the teacher's masterpiece is never 
my thoughts have been preoccupied with life finished. His brush colors a living work ofart. 
here -classes, foothall weekends and SYRs. In "lbe teachers seldom gets to view what he has 
short, I have hccome so busy bouncing checks helped make, but society does. There can be 
I have forgotten my wobhly youth as a teen­no doctors, no philosophers, and certainly no 
ager. After all,l have heen 20 for l 0 days now. writers unless first there are teachers. 
This fall my mind, what little of it is left, We at Notre Dame have a commitment to 
wandered hack to my days at De Smet Jesuit give of ourselves for others. The concern we 
High School. lbose were the best nine years must share Is how we can best do this. 
of my life, I thought then. la'it year, only lO Notre Dame students 
Memories In time hecome mush-they need received Indiana certification to teach in sec­
reinforcement. So at the suggestion of an ondary education. These students met their 
editor at The ObsenJer, I volunteere~_ to go general educational requirements here at 
Notre Dame and took their professional edu­
cational requirements at Saint Mary's. Notre
Joseph Murphy 
Dame's coexchange program with Saint Mary's has allowed these students to do this.
so it goes 
None of the Notre Dame students has 
received a certificate In primary education 
back to my high school and iO speak to the since this would require more Intensive re­
potential Domers who glide down the same quirements than can be handled by the coex­
corridors Ionce found so difficult to navigate. change program. 
"lbe Undergraduate Student Committee Since 1976, only 120 Notre Dame students 
gave me the chance to return in triumph -not have been certified. In actuality, the number 
for myself, hut for those who educated me, of Domers teaching around the country may 
who gave me the knowledge and the confi­be higher, but only slightly. Some Notre Dame 
dence not only to survive at Notre Dame, but students may not pursue Indiana certification 
to prevail. or may teach in private schools where cer­
Every school has its institutions. Notre tification is not necessary. 
Dame ha~ Emil, Hesburgh, Joyce and Griffin. Those are the facts. The reasons for these 
De Smet had Kane, Mess, Evola and Smith to remain hidden. Perhaps, students interested 

mention a few. In teaching do not apply to Notre Dame be-• 
The morning I arrived at De Smet, I sought cause we do not offer an educational major 

out these teachers to thank them -not so within the University curriculum. Perhaps, 
much In words, my very return said that. In­those students who do attend Notre Dame 

stead, I wanted to show them who I had and who have sacrificed to do so are not will­
he<:ome, or better, who they had help make ing or able to give up the financial benefits 
me. other careers offer. Perhaps, Notre Dame stu­
De Smet's college counselor Is a Notre dents believe they can as leaders of society 
Dame graduate who said I had a chance to get have the greatest impact on society. 
Into Notre Dame. I wonder where I would be My point here is that, in the past, manklnd 

If he had not taken the time to tell me "you're has considered teachers to be society's 
In the hall park." greatest leaders. In the modern world, the 
I told Chris Mess I had just taken a test In boardroom has replaced the classroom as the International Relations so similiar to the ones foundation for the future. he gave I hreezed through the exam. Whatever the reasons for this, Notre Dame 
I also climbed the stairs to the second floor does have the caliber of students who make to visit Jeanne Smith who had taught English great teachers. Last yeorr. l00 percent ofthose during my junior year. I wanted to tell her who received certification found opppor­how much I appreciated the confidence she tunities to teach. had instllled In me, hut her classroom was This Is not to imply that one has to be a empty. She wa~ at lunch.! had just missed her. teacher to be of service to the young or that 
Jeanne Smith once had commented to me, one has to go to Notre Dame to be a great "you are writing with style." I am certain she teacher. The question I ask ofus here at Notre did not remember that simple sentence, but I Dame is who will teach the coming genera­have not forgotten it. For me, her words tion about the Catholic perspective, Ifwe do marked the first time somebody ever told me I not? wrote well. It wa~ a turning point which, In a real sense, we are all teachers. while not significant to anyone else, changed Whatever we do, we must do it well. The eyes my attitude about writing. ofour young are upon us. We must not blink. 
Jeanne Smith died suddenly a few weeks I ask only that we consider teaching as a ago. "lbe living have a tendency to make way of life and that we take a moment out of heroes out of the dead. I will not. The highest our busy day to light a candle at the Grotto for compliment Icould give her, or any teacher, Is all the Jeanne Smiths who have made us what simply this: I believe teaching to be one ofllfes we are. In us, their light will shine forever. greatest goods. Teaching Is marked with no single moment of triumph, but with one con­joseph Murphy is a sophomore govern­tinual evolution of character. In brief, the ment/international relations majoratNotre teacher takes a child and makes him a man Dame and is the assistant Viewpoint editor who In turn wlll guide the next generation. at The Observer. 
Viewpoint wants to bear from you. Ifyou 
bave an opinion, brillant insight or 
humorous comment concerning anytblng 
appearing In The Observer justsend a let' 
ter toP.O.Box Q. 
Viewpoint 
Policy 
P.O. BoxQ 
universities. It was no mere coincidence that
The loss of leadership 
joe's Coffee Emporium opened in Cambridge, Massachusetts one week before armed stu­
and the loss of alcohol 
dents seized Harvard's administration build-
Dear Editor: ing. 
As our first semester under the new alcohol Are we going to allow caffeine crazed 
policy comes to a close, it is time to step back youths to wreak havoc on the sacred quads? 
and assess how the policy is doing. The consequences will be disast rous. Build-
The alcohol policy has been very lnef-ings will be ransacked, lives will be shattered 
fective in achieving its intended purpose of and lawns will be trampled. These are slight 
preventing alcohol abuse among students. ,inconveniences compared to the Inevitable 
Students have merely taken their alcohol off '"liability suits. 
campus without changing any of their drink-I beg the administration to reject this short­
ing habits. Although the University has freed sighted, self-destructive proposal. Coffee 
Itself from most legal liability for alcohol-shops are in no way compatible with the at· 
related mishaps on campus, it has not been mosphere ofacademic excelllence fostered at 
freed of the moral responsibility for any acci-Notre Dame. 
dents which result from off-campus student Eoghan McGill 
drinklng. Howard Hall 
There are those of us who are, however, more concerned about what the alcohol policy means for future generations of Notre 
Stopping starvation 
Dame students. In forcing upperclassmen off 
campus, the administration has created a void 
means long range plans 
in the development of our underclassmen. I 
am not sure that the administration realized Dear Edt tor: 
how important the example ofupperclassmen This letter is in response to Garry Wills 
is in helping younger students adapt to the column In the Nov. 1.7 Issue of The Observer. 
new demands of college life. Increasing As one who enjoys the media, I will take this 
amounts of responsibility, frustration and opportunity to express and share some of my 
homesickness can make the adjustment very thoughts. 
difficult. Most freshmen look up to upperclas­Much hype is distributed by pretty faces, 
smen in their dorms for guidance in academic, but as a person watcQing the visual media, It Is 
and more importantly, social matters. Unfor­all too awesome to complete a day's work and 
tunately, the alcohol policy has greatly see those starving faces covered with flies 
reduced the possibilities for social interaction staring at me while trying to consume my 
between the classes. While their potential much earned evening meal. 
role models are going off campus, most The comment arising out of Hitler's Ger­
younger students are left to learn and adjust many "Where wa~ God?" with the response 
by themselves. It would be next to impossible "Where wa'i man?" identifies my feelings 
to adjust to the unique and complex demands toward these starving people very well. Today 
of social life here at Notre Dame without the nuclear war Is a constant threat. Therefore, 
example of upperclassmen. However, this is . when we ask "Where Is man?" we we truly 
exactly what the administration has forced need to consider the nuclear threat. Because 
this year's, and succeeding years' classes, to to distribute food and other necessities to 
do. these poor souls will be only short term relief 
While I do not purport to have an answer as from the more serious problems associated to how the alcohol issue should be best han­with their culture and government. Is man dled, I do disagree with Father Hesburgh's then taklng on the responsibility of trying to statement that the alcohol policy will only get change these two social institutions? Does stricter If the current policy is in effect. This man contribute to the existing Ethiopian soci­would serve only to alienate the classes to an ety, strengthening these peoples' bodies, and even higher degree than is present now. not offer a light at the end of the tunnel that 
Any alcohol policy should reflect a genuine shedo; a better life and future for them? How concern for the well-being and development are these changes accepted by their govern­of all those affected by it. The University ment -by other world powers? should examine the implications of the pres­Saturday morning as I listened to the radio, ent policy with student leaders and offer a Red Cross representative related that his or· amendments that will make the overall quality ganization wants money in preference to ac­of student life here at Notre Dame the best It tual food. Their rationale being that can be. Ethiopians are accustomed to a different diet 
john Moran than we of the Western World. With this atti­
Grace Hall tude toward solving the starvation problem, 
then our emergency grain stores would still 
be of little use. But, spending dollars In the
Coffee should not be 
Ethiopian econol"!y would only support con­ditions as they now exist.
voice of new generation 
You see, I am glad that I wa'i born In the United States. I realize that not everyone In Dear Editor: the world was, but that does not make me an 

A dark and ominous cloud hangs over the isolationist. Rather, our American educational golden dome. Our revered administration is system has helped me to think clearly about contelnplating a momentous policy blunder. I all aspects ofa problem. Starvation Is a horren­speak of the proposed coffee shop. On first dous problem, but again I ao;k, do we consideration, a coffee shop seems the perfect strengthen these people temporarily only to solution to the Notre Dame social doldrums. pull away when other world powers, opposed The student government and administration to ourinvolvement, threaten the well-being of envision clean cut, young Americans discuss­the whole world with retaliation as they see ing civic pride over a steaming cup of java. fit? This vision, however, is certainly the product Guilt by visual aids is a strong force. So in­ofa severe naivete. stead of being subjected to a sight about 
I fear a starkly different reality. Unruly mobs which'I can do little, I rather would like to feel of coffee-addicted students running amok on secure knowing deliberate long range plans our beloved campus. It has happened only too existed with qualified, conscientious, experi­often before. Campus coffee shops, which first enced people working to fulfill them. became popular in the mid-sixties, caused an Cleo Mellinger unprecedented wave ofviolence at America's South Bend, Ind. 
The Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Ed1tor-1n-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Busmess Manager.  . Dave Taiclet  
Manag1ng Ed1tor  ... Mark Worscheh  Controller .  Marrpat Home  
The Observer IS the rndependent newspaper published by the students of the  News Edlfor . . .  . ...... Sarah Hamrlton  Advertising Manager .  . Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Ed1tor . . . . . .  . . Dan McCullough  Circulation Manager . .  ...... Jell O'Nerll  
reflect the policies of the administration of erther institutron The news is reported as  Samt Mary's Editor . . .  Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager . .  . Kevrn Williams  
accurately and as ObJectively as possible. Unsrgned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Ed1tor... . . . .  . . Mict1ael Sullivan  Production Manager.  ..... Chris Bowler  
of a majorrty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Editor . . . .  . Dave Grote  Project Manager .  . Amy Stephan  
present the vrews ot therr authors. Column space IS avarlable to all members ot the  Features Editor . . . . .  . Mary Healy  
community, and the free expressron of varying oprnions on campus. through letters.  Photo Ed1tor. . . . . . . .  . ..... Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
rs encouraged.  



r--­
Accent 

The freshman engineer 
by Beth Whelpley 
features staffwriter 
I
effVuono doesn't have a calcula­sophomore year, when, it was tor strapped to his belt, nor does thought, students would be better e have a pencil permanently at­able to handle the course. At that tached to his right ear. But perhaps time, the course was worth four he should have his own credits, with a weekly tutorial. It is monogrammed carrel at the library, now worth three and a half credits, as this is where he spends up to 35 and includes a half-credit lab. hours a week. Vuono still goes to physics lectures, 

A resident ofZahm Hall, Vuono is hoping to tackle the course again among the more than 500 freshmen next semester. enrolled in the College of Engineer­"I've studied more in a few weeks 
ing at Notre Dame. here than in all ofmy 12 years of Vuono's schedule for the fall schooling," he moans. It often semester was typical offreshman seems as ifhis friends in Arts and 

r engineers, requiring that he attend 
r physics, calculus, and chemistry on 
r Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, 
r with a physics lab every other Wed­
r "If I knew then 
nesday afternoon and a chemistry 
lab on Friday afternoon. In addition

r what I know now, 
to these, he takes International 

~ 
Relations, Freshman Seminar, and 

r I don't know if I
Army ROTC. Unlike the half-credit

r 
r physics lab, the one-credit 
would have been 

r chemistry lab is not averaged into r his chemistry grade. . '' 
r an engineer . . .
Vuono's courses totalled 18 and a 

r 
' 
halfcredit hours this semester, until r he dropped physics. "It was taking up too much time and pulling my other grades down ... I knew I had Letters, Business, and Science are
~ 
to drop something," he explains. doing better academically, and yet 
The physics course currently have more time on their hands, he offered replaces a social science says. "My roommate in Art and elective formerly on the schedules Letters has a 3.5 (grade point 
offreshmen engineers (see sidebar average)," he says, adding "He does 
below). Physics was then taken put in a lot ofstudying time." 

Above: Freshman Jeff Vuono studies at his desk In Zahm Hall. Below: Vuono treks across campus in the 
shadow o(the Notre Dame librarv 


Physics thrusts freshmen forward 
difficult, pointing out that "the 
number ofA's awarded over the years has been fairly constant. 


by Mary Heilmann 
features staffwriter 
When students complain about 
grades, I explain to them that we 
curve the exams based on scores 
T
he engineering program at Science when they entered sopho­over the past 20 years. Because of Notre Dame has undergone more physics courses. this, an A today means essentially some changes in recent years "Engineers were not adequately the same as it did years ago." which, according to Cornelius prepared by their freshman year In reference to the difficulty Brown, chairman ofthe physics course to begin the sophomore experienced by freshmen in the department, are "long overdue." physics course," Brown claims. physics course, Marley states, "I 
The changes, implemented in the "Since the change to a two­know ofno engineering program ­fall of 1983, were, according to semester course taught by the at Notre Dame or anywhere else­assistant Dean of EngineeringJerry physics department, the students that the initial complaint or diffi­Marley, "fairly minimal. There is a enrolled in the College of Science culty is not mechanics. Whether physics sequence now in the fresh­and thoses in Engineering areal· you call it physics or mechanics, the· man year, whereas previously there most indistinguishable in their subject matter is still the same, and was a mechanics course. This may knowledge physics." it is the subject matter that causes be an apparent change, but actually Several sophomores who experi­the problems." the content matter is the same." enced the new program in its in­As to the perceived effect of the 
Brown, however, points out that cipient year, however, share an changes, Marley notes that it is the freshman physics course is now opinion of it that is considerably difficult to determine "since there being taught by the physics depart­different than that ofboth Marley are still sophomores changing ment instead ofin the College of and Brown. majors." Engineering. "It seemed like they used the He explains, however, that in 
"The change was long overdue course to weed people out by 1981, 494 freshmen engineering and has significantly improved the making it particularly difficult," intents entered the University. In physics program for freshmen. We notes Usa Connor, a sophomore 1982, 379 of these students contin­had contended that, ifmath courses math major formerly enrolled in the ued in engineering during their are taught by math professors and College ofEngineering. "I don't feel sophomore year-a 75 percent English courses are taught by En­that an engineer has to know as continuance rate. Among those 
glish professors, then physics much about physics as a science entering the engineering college in courses, naturally, should be taught major would, particularly a physics 1982, the rate ofcontinuance as by physics professors," he said. major. Plus, since it was the first sophomores in 1983 was 70 per­
Marley says that the changes year that they had huge physics cent -a decrease although the pro­were made "because there was a classes, we were pretty much the gram was the same as it had been in periodic review ofthe curriculum. guinea pigs." 1981. In 1984, the rate of con­We felt it was essential to provide a Susan Valocchi, also a sopho­tinuance among freshmen who had yearlong physics program in order more, agrees. "I didn't think their experienced the new program was to maintain a quality education in way ofpresenting the course was 60 percent -again a decrease, but engineering over a four year per­very efficient, and my professor last not substantially higher than previ­iod." year was not very helpful in ex­ous years. 
A particular concern was that plaining the subject matter and "On the basis of those statistics, freshmen in the College of Engi­answering questions." the net effect appears to be mini­neering lagged significantly behind Brown, however, denies allega­mal," Marley states. "However, it is those enrolled in the College of tions that the course is particularly much too early to tell." 
photos by Vic Guarino 




Wednesday, December 5, 1984-page 6 -7 



more th~n meets the eye 
Vuono sorely misses the time he 
used to read the paper and watch 
the news, keepln~ up with current 
event.<;. llvin~ In Europe for his 
senmd and third years ofhi~ 
school, Vuono saw much political 
unrest. His father Is a general in the 
military, and current events af. 
fected his life every day. He used to 
read the daily paper meticulously. 
"Now all I know Is the Nleuwland 
Science Hall, the 'hrare ... I want to 
watch Dan Rather at four o'clock. 
This Is one of the reasons I took 
International Rdatlons. I had to find 
out Ghandi was shot from The 
Observer he explains. 
Commentin~ on the frustration of 
the entire situation, hl· observes, 
"The other guys seem to have the 
time to do all that. Maybe I just have 
to schedule my time better." 
Another thing Vuono misses is 
the 3.8'5 grade point average he had 
in hi~ school. Now, with a 2. '5 
midsemester average he says, "We 
have to accept the fact that we 
won't make the same grades that we 
used to because It Is so tough." 
Vuono ha-; a four-year scholarship through ROTC. Although according to Vuono, "one can devote as little or as much time as you want to," he admits, "I put In a lot oftime ... more than most." Besides class and a two-hour lab each week, he par· tiel pates In various activities with the Irish Rangers. a division ofelite cadets. 
"I like doing It," said Vuono. "It is a release and is enjoyable." He spends approximately six hours a week in ROTC. In November he participated in an overnight mill· tary tactics outing, after which Vuono said he slt:pt and then got up to study. 
Generally, however, Vuono ap· pt""ars to spt""nd his weekend evenings In the fashion of most freshmen in any college of the University. "We have social gather· ln~s on Friday night, either In our hall or in others ... We also go to the ~ames reli~iously," he says with a twinkle in his eye. 
Before dropping his physics class, Vuono would often get discouraged as he got his first test grades hack. "I had expectations ... I think every­one does. IfI knew then what I know now, I don't know If I would have been an engineer," he says. Vuono wa<; fortunate to have the support ofhis older brother and friends, who are upperclassman engineering students. 
"I have a better attitude now. I 
Correction 
Because ofan editing error, the byline for the review of"Places In the Heart" in Monday's Accent section wa<; incorrectly spelled. The correct spelling is She!II Can­field. 
Christmas PoHery Sale 
(Graduate Works) December 6 &7 all day ~O'Shaughnessy Hall 
am intent on doing better ... I needed that shock ( midsemester grades), " says Vuono with a sigh. "I just wish it was·a little lighter." 
If he ever decided to switch majors, Vuono says he would go towards Arts and Letters, in com­puters, government, or economics. The only major obstacle in his way would be the possibility of his ROTC scholarship being ter· minated, as it is "earmarked as engineering." 
Still, Vuono believes the engi­neering program is worth the prob­lems it presents to a point, because it is "a good field to go into." 
Vuono would like to see more courses introducing freshmen to particular fields ofengineering in 
• 
All types of contact lenses 

• 
Prescriptions filled 

• 
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 

• 
Dr. Patrick Albert 






ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 

order to see where their interests lie and in what areas they excel. He describes freshmen engineering as "generic," in that only basics are offered, with the exception of Engi­neering 120. 
"I'm getting pounded with learn­ing foundations. I don't feel that by the end of this year I will have the basis to make a decision (as to the choice ofengineering field)," Vuono says. 
There are people who could excel in speciaiized fields of engi­neering, but who are getting "weeded out" in the basic courses, according to Vuono. "They are good at trying to weed out people, but at the same time they might be weeding out the wrong people." 
N
v;...o
"""""''"' 
~=­
j 

Just north of McDonald's on Ironwood. 

PlmRIA AND PUB 
130 Dixie Way North Roseland, lndlona (across from Big C Lumber) 

277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 

.......... 

$6.95 
01111-f'.JII
Ooll-11 
EXPIRES 12/8/84
EXPIRES 12/f/84 


...---------------~--~-----­




Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will be meeting todayat 9 p.m. in the LaFortune little Theatre. All novice and varsity men must attend, and anyone else who is interested also is welcome. Apicture ofall members. will be taken at 9:30p.m. for the Christmas card. -The Obseroer 
ND's Army ROTC basketball team defeated Kentucky's Army, 68-51, to win the 16-team, double-elimination ROTC tournament last weekend at Stepan Center. Led by Rick Lout­han's 29 points, the Army bounced back after losing once to Ken­tucky, 72-57, forcing the second championship game. The Army got to the finals by defeating Miami (Ohio), Southern Illinois, Kentucky and Notre Dame's Navy ROTC. Louthan was named the MVP of the tournament, and he and teammate Dave Taiclet were named to the all-tournament team. Notre Dame Navy ROTC's Brian Keohr also made the all-tournament squad.-The Obseroer 
Awhite-water rafting trip is being sponsored by NVA during spring break. The trip will be organized by Colorado Outward Bound. An important meeting for anyone who is interested will be held this Sunday, Dec. 9, at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. Anyone who has questions but is unable to attend the meeting should call Sally at 2 39-6690. -The Obseroer 
I 

Wednesday, December 5, 1984-page 8 
The Yankees and the Cubs completed a six­
player trade, and the Cleveland Indians re-signed free-agent Andre Thornton as baseball's 1984 winter convention began to heat up Tuesday. The Yankees and Cubs deal was the first of the meetings and sent left-handed pitcher Ray Fontenot and infielder-outfielder Brian Dayeu to Chicago for four players. Then, the Indians called a news conference to announce that they had re-signed their own free agent, Thornton, to a four-year contract. In return for Fontenot and Dayett, the Cubs sent veteran catcher Ron Hassey, 23-year-old out­fielder Henry Cotto and pitchers Rich Bordi and Porfi Altamirano to the Yankees, where they will be assigned to the club's Class AAA Columbus roster. -AP 
The Big Ten has not yet received full payment of J2.9 million owed by Sports View, a Nashville, Tenn., television syn­dicator, but the league commissioner says he does not believe the company has defaulted on its college football TV contract. Failure to pay the sum could mark the first default since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled against the NCAA's hold on college football TV rights. ­
AP 

Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written.-The Obseroer 
Box Score 
Laat Night's Reauha Notre Dame 74,1ndlana 63 Indiana (63) 

M  FG-A  FT·A  R  F  P  
Morgan  14  1-5  0-0  2  1  2  
Giomi  29  9-10  0-0  6  5  18  
Meier  32  5-7  0-2  8  3  10  
Dakich  33  4-6  2-2  3  2  10  
Alford  34  1-6  2-2  2  4  4  
Brooks  24  5-9  5-5  2  3  15  
Eyl  1  o-o  o-oooo  
Blab  8  1-3  0-0  0  1  2  
Smith  5  0-1  0-0  0  0  0  
Hillman  5  1-6  0-0  2  1  2  
Sloan  11  0-1  0-1  0  3  0  
Simmons  4  0-1  0-0  0  1  0  
200 27·55  9-12  25  24  63  
FG  Pet.  .491.  FT  Pet.  -.750.  Team  

rebounds -3. Turnovers -19. Assists -16 (Dakich 7). Technicals-none. 
Notre Dllme(74) 

M FG-A FT·A R F P Royal 29 2-6 2-4 12 1 6 Dolan 34 1-2 0-0 7 4 2 Barlow 32 6-13 3-4 5 4 15 Rivers 39 7-15 9-11 2 3 23 Hicks 33 7-15 0-0 5 5 14 Duff 12 0-2 4-4 2 0 4 Price 13 3-4 4-4 3 0 10 Voce B Q-0 0-1 3 0 0 200 26-57 22·28 39 17 74 
FG Pet. -.456. FT Pet. -.786. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -20. Assists -15 (Rivers 5). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 45, Indiana 30. Offi­cials -Joe Forta, Paul Houseman, Hank Nic­hols (All ACC). A-11,345 (c). 
The Obserr•er Notr<: Dame offict:, located on the third flour of l.al'ortunt: Student Center, acct:pts classifkd advertising from') a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's offit·e. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 1.2:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­


Classifieds 
ters er dav. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
TYPING 
Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 

NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES 27HI045 PICKUP AND DELIVERY 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,559 • $50,553/v-. HeM Hiring. Your AIM. c.ll805-687-5000, Ext. R-8834. 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILl DO TYPING. CALL: 287-5162. 
ATTENTION FACULTY AND STAFF...ATTENTION FACULTY AND STAFF .... GOING ABROAD NEXT SE· MESTER AND NEED SOMEONE TO WATCH YOUR HOME? LOOKING FOR LIVE-IN BABYSITTER& WHO CAH COOK AND CLEAN TOO? OR DO YOU HAVE SOME EXTRA SPACE TO RENT? TWO RESPONSIBLE, MA· TURE, FEMALE TRANSFER STU­DENTS ARE SEEKING OFF-<:AMPUS HOUSING WHILE THEY WAIT FOR ON­CAMPUS HOUSING. PLEASE HELP US WHILE WE HELP YOU. IF INTER­ESTED, CALL SUSAN OR MARGARET AT 283-50115. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS '85 AP­PLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CEN­TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost: Ught brown cassette case in or near D-2 student lot on 11/19 I can identify contents of the case Please return. REWARD. Call1382 
FOUND: 1 HUMPTY DUMPTY STUFFED ANIMAL IN VERY POOR CONDITION,OUTSIDE PASO. EAST. LOOKS LOST AND BEWILDERED AND SEEKING OWNER IF HE'S YOURS CONTACT PATTY RILEY AT 4568. 
FOUND : BASKETBALL TICKETS CALL 1073 
FOUND -Pair of ski gloves in South Dining Hall.-Umbrella In front of Ubrary. Call232-0660 to identify. Ask for John T. 
HORSE DIED-NEED MY MITTENS BACK.If anybody picked up my blue leat­her mittens at the last home football gam~Penn. State. Please return them to Kevin-3828 NOW! 
LOST: New, black, compact umbrella with wood handle. Lost in Washington Hall or Library, 2nd floor. If you have It, please call George, 349913200. 
FOR RENT 
···················•······························ 
ROOMMATE WANTED CASTLE POINT 
APTS. CALl MIKE 277-6463 
............................................................... 
will share my luxery townhouse with two 
respnsible/trustworlhy/ freindly male stu­
dents for next term. 7 min. walk to main 
campus. call len 272-8582 after 5pm. lor 
interview. 
WANTED 
.......................................... 
DRIVE TO SEATTLE FOR HOLIDAYS! I'VE GOT THE CAR. YOU SUPPLY DRIVER(S) AND GAS. FOR MORE IN­FORMATION, WRITE T. REID, 5015 36TH AVENUE, NE, SEATTLE, WA 981 05 OR CALL (206)524-4567. 
RIDE NEEDED: Need ride to Upstate New York (Syracuse or Albany area) can leave Wednesday December 19 at noon. Call Brendan at 2275. 
Need ride to New Orleans for Christmas Break. can leave anytime after Decem· bar 20. Call Paul COLLECT at (312)388­6458. 
WANTED :Garage space for rent close to campus. Call J.A. 2012 
WANTED: CHEAP COUCH, WE'LL TRANSPORT 2361 
HELP WANTED: PART-TIME SPORTS 
WRITER TO WORK FRI. NIGHTS I SOME TUESDAY NIGHTS COVERING HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS. SEND LET­TER AND CUPS TO MATT BEAL, SPORTS EDITOR, THE DAILY STAR, 217 N. 4TH ST., NILES, Ml41120. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: 
'72Skylwk 

PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SENIORS: HOLY CROSS AS­SOCIATES!! A chance to learn, give, grow and to lolle. For more info. call 239­7949. 
SENIORS, SENIORS: HAND IN PROFILES FOR INVITATIONAL INTER­VIEWS FROM JAN. 211-FEB. 15 DURING WEEK OF DEC. 3. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD 
Santa can't deliver my presents to Notre Dame so I NEED A RIDE TO NEW JER­SEY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. II you can glv•""'• rld8 call S..h 8\1333. 
I've got a dele with Santa for Christmas and I don't want to stand him up, so help me and the jolly old elf get together in St. Louis. If you can give me a ride there lor Christmas break call Maureen at 1333. 
STAINS IS A BIG TOOL-THATS ALL !!!!!!! 
TAKE THE BUSI!! THE BUFFALO BUS! TAKE THE BU~m Call Greg x4115 
MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS: For sale in room 204 Walsh or 319 Farley. $6 each or 2for$10. 
ATTENTION GROUPIE CLUB! Be sure to congratulate Cindy on her promotion to STAFF REPORTER. Yes, your favorite writer has taken one more step in her jour· ney to journalistic stardom. 
SOPHOMORES -X-MAS PARTY!!! Thursday Dec. 6, 5:30 -8:30 Starting at LaFortune: Walch "The Grinch'". take a ride on a horse-driven sleigh! FREE AD· 
MISSION!!!! 

Once the rockets go up, 0 that is not my department, said Wilkins Von8raun. 
Greg, Hey baby-whas' happenin"? Thas nasty­oi!!! 
............................ 
BOSTON CLUB BREAK BUS -Going to Boston for Christmas Break. Leaving on Dec. 19 at 6:30 pm and returning on Jan. 
14. Price is $100 round trip. Signups are Thursday Dec. 6 at 7:00pm in LaFortune. $50 deposit mandatory. 
BOOM! 

FORTUNE 500 COMPANIES: THE LEWIS ME.'S, CLASS OF '87, ARE NOW SCHEDULING JOB APPLICATIONS. SUBMIT YOUR (LUCRATIVE) OFFERS NOW AND AVOID COSTLY BIDDING WARS LATER. LOVE, B&G 
HEYPATTYCHOPP !HappyGrinch Day! KK 
PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS Slgnup•, 1..8Fortune Little ThMter thl• Suncley at 7 p.m. $45 round trtp, $30 one way. Two bu-.Tu•. 8ncl W-. 
WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN-UPS THURS 12/6 -7PM -2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE LVS: WED 12/19 --COST: $65 ROUND TRIP 
This Friday is the anniversary of Peart Harbor. It"s also the night St. Ed's is having a hall party to celebrate CHRISTMAS AT THE ALOHA BOWL. Get psyched ... 
HORSE DIEDI NEED RIDE TO 805­TONI A book of OBSERVER classifieds ... Read it!!! YOU may be a published author --available at a bookstore near you. 
To "Th• Big Tunll" s.lmon: You are the next recipient of The Official B.S. Award. Say hello to your uncle/cousin, head of the Irish Mafia. Your award will arrive in the mail. Congratulations. 
"Who wants to play with a Charti~ln-Th~ 
Box?"' 
Kim Tr8flner Congratulations, you staff reporter, you. 
M"TV World Premiere Video Release Featuring K2-LIVE GIG FROM DALLAS starring Notre Dame student ChrisPrebys Coming to you soon... Look to your hall message board for fur­ther details 
BIOI.. 201 FINAL EXAM 
1. For you forensics pr~meds : What term 
classifies a Rhesus monkey that got run over by a lawn mower ? 
A. Rhesus Pieces 
2. Okay you A-Team fans. what do you call B.A.'s lymphocytes ? 
A. Mr. TCells 
3. 
What do you call the immune cells of a prostitute? A. Nymphocytes 

4. 
EXTRA CREDIT: Okay Biolab TA's, 


THEO MAJORS AND OTHER INTER­ESTED STUDENTS: PROF ELENA MAUTS, C.S.C WILL CONDUCT AN ADVENT PRAYER SERVICE-USING YOGA TECHNIQUES-TONIGHT AT 
10:00 P.M. IN THE FARLEY HALL CHAPEL. THIS SERVICE IS ESPE­CIALLY FOR THEOLOGY FORUM MEMBERS, SO PLEASE PARTICI­PATE. 
FREE ICE CREAM! NOW THAT I GOT YOUR ATTENTION GIRLS OF 3RD FLOOR PW. GET A PULSE I 
Interested In getting involved with The Observer, as well as learning to edit? The Accent depfrtment is currently ac­cepting applications for Featu,... Copy Editor, a paid position. If interested, con­tact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313 . 
MARK QUIGLEY I'm aorry that r forgot to do wh•t you uklld on Mondlly.lt'aln tocl8y. Old I do It right? LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLLII 
Jim Maclennan is simply at a loss for words today. 
K.M. -Congrats on that fantastic Bio Score -so you're in debt to me again! Never know when I'll collect .... T.W. 
Johanna-"'Ah Miss...think of me, think of me" during your SYR. I'll be thinking of you ... -Tobias 
Dear Male Prostitute, Where's your roommate sleeping tonight? Love, the entire 3rd Floor 
Opening mass for the B.A.M.H. (Born again man haters club) will be next Sun­day. Call 5319 or 5067 nyou would like to join. 
Dicky Green says, All You NOTRE DAME CREW GODS go to the meeting WED­NESDAY night in LaFortune at 9 .... (No not the women,ml1fl only) All you NOVICE, including you Drew Monahan, had bellarshow upl 
NINER FEVER. ..NINER FEVER.. NINER FEVER... NINER FEVER TheSuper Bowl is coming to Stanford and the NINERS will be there .... What happened to Joe Theis· mann and the 'Skins? ... 49ERS49ERS49ERS49ERS 49ERS49ERS49ERS49ERS 
BETH, SUPERCAT HAS BEEN SLEEP­ING AROUND 
YO MARK, YOU FROM MIDDLETOWN 
N.J. STOP TOYING WITH YOURSELF! IS IT MS. FEDOR OR IS IT MS. MILLER? 
J.C. HAMLIN 

HEY PATTY FAGAN ... ENJOY YOUR DAY! SOMEBODY"$ WATCHING YOU ... YEP, YOUR K.K.!!! SMILE, BUD! 
............................................... 
DNr Child.., d Zahm, Who do you 
think that was sitting in the Wedge Room? 
Next time do you want us lo hold your 
hands and spoon feed you? 

Your dinner buddies at 4-T Holy Cross 
P-WHAT A WONDERFUL NIGHT FOR A MOONDANCE! IT'S NEVER TOO LATE... CALL 2 TOM'S DANCE STUDIO FOR AN INTRODUCTORY LESSON. 
288-4397 
························· 

THE WOMEN OF N.D. CALENDAR on sale TONIGHT with the Women promot­ing the calendar al these locations: Dillon 10:30-12:00 Food Sales Zahm 11:()()-12:00 Food Sales Grace 10:30-12:00 Food Sales 
ROSES ARE RED MUTT IS A CREEP MY ONLY TWO LOVES ARE KAREN AND SHEEP · KEN MUNRO 
KAREN roll th8t tummy THE TURKEYS! 

Dear B,K&B. Here it is SMC Chicks-your very own personal. Ya better have a seat because it might have some dart< sacrets in it. CM-what will you do for an Indiana ticket?/AK-strategically placed balloons? /Wake me up before you go go!/Boomy how'd you ever get that name anyway? /Is it true you really get into bandaids? /"Oh my God, it"s a -!/1 can show you some better pictures!/CM-do you really go for valley boys or just G.G."s?/l'd better go this is costing too much! Merry Xmas Love ya! Hercules 
HEY I JEANNE STEINBRONN HAVE YOURSELF A MERRY LITTLE CHRISTMAS! LOVE, your Kris Kringle in Badin??? 
YO, J.C. Yeah, the rich one with the plane. 
C(M) may equal 69, but I think M(C) 
equals zero I 
................................................... 

WANTED: RIDE TO O'HARE ON DEC. 
18.1 NEEDTOBEATTHEAIRPORTBY 2:30PM. PLEASECALLJOHNAT 1118. 
!coupon .... coupon .... coupo~
IHoliday Special 
i 50s! off 
Send a Christmas 

LOST-room & car keys on a BUD­Body: Poor Engine: Good What sound does BUON21 COMPLEANNOGREG! personal to a good WEISER key chain lost between South $500 or beat ollw . . . how tasteless and obsolete a light saber make ? It's about time!! Have a woo birlhdey . Dining Hall & DiMon ij found please call Jell 288-2042 A. ..,..,,..,.. can't wait to watch them scrape you oH friend. 1'778-Thanks! 
the floor of Sr. Bar. 

................................................................ 
-Peg

STOLEN: MY BICYCLE From the beck ol Hav• • compllilnt? K8111Ann Just bring in this Cavanaugh, Wed. 28th or Thurs. 29th: is for sale! 76'VW RABBIT great conditions It's your tum to cook dinner! 
coupon and receive 50 
an old-type cruiser, rlld body, white rims, for info call1459 OBUD GRIPE NIGHT What do we say, dear? HAPPY BIRTHDAY GREGII black seat, white hand grips; no landers; To the last child in our group · welcome to cents off your next C'mon, dude, give me a break, I live O.C. FOR SALE: NO JACKETS AND RUGBY WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5 edulthood!l And just as you offered words classified ad order. and it's my only transportation; Any Info, SHIRTS. MAKE GREAT GIFTS. CALL 118. Romano, what'• • .....? 
ofwisdomtoma,l, now sage, wise and ex· One coupon per order CALLJOENoquestlonaukedm-3877 JOEAT3100 
4:45 TO 6:45PM perienced (two weeks anyway) return 
(order includes total
CLEVELAND CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS said advice-"live fast, die young!" We're FOR SALE: Reduced-lara round-trip days ad is to run).
SOUTH DINING HALL Sign-ups on WED, DEC 5 and THURS. so gled you'D be partying with us now! Money lound laat-on the grau near airline ticket -open destination continen­DEC 6 from 6:00 -7:30pm in Lafortune. Have a very happy birthday and ... oi! Hurry! Offer expires
Mernori8l l.lbrery. Call 283-1904 nyou tal US. Must be utled by Jan. 8. Cai12B7-$30.00 Round Trip. Bus leaves on Dec 19 
-Szar. 
I 
December 12, 1984.

want to d8im n. 2592. and returns on Jan 14. coupon .... coupon .... coupon. 

The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1984-page 9 

BYU retains top spot in AP poll; Irish move up 
Associated Pre88 beaten team at 12-0, will face Cotton Bowl, received 767 points. The Second Ten consists of LSU, UCLA, Georgia, Notre Dame and 
Michigan in the Holiday Bowl on Oklahoma State, the No. 9 team at Maryland, Miami, UCLA, Florida usc. 
The regular season is over and the Dec. 21 while Oklahoma, 9-1-1, 9-2, received 725 points while State, Auburn, Notre Dame, South­Georgia, which had been in the countdown to college: football's na­meets fourth-ranked Washington in Southern Methodist, which defeated ern Cal, Texas and Wisconsin, which Top Twenty for I I straight weeks, tional championship is under way. the Orange Bowl on New Year's Nevada-Las Vegas 38-21 w finish at made the Top Twenty for the first fell out by losing to Georgia Tech 
Rc:alistically,there are four con­Night. 9-2, received 608 points. The Mus· time this season. 35-18. That made room for Wiscon­
tenders: top-ranked Brigham Young, The Top Ten remained un­tangs have an Aloha Bowl date with Last week, it was Auburn, Florida sin, which finished the regular runner-up Oklahoma, No. 3 Florida changed from last week. Florida, Notre Dame. State, Texas, LSU, Maryland, Miami, season 7-3-1. and fourth-ranked Washington. which closed out a 9-1-1 season by 
BYU held onto first place for the defeating Florida State 27-17 for its 
APTopT-.ty

third week in a row in The Associ­ninth consecutive victory -the 
The Top Twenly college foottball teams in The As­
Bavaro named All-American 
ated Press' final regular-season poll Gators are ineligible for a bowl game sociated Press poll, wilh first-place votes in paren­theses, this season's rOCOfds and total points. Points 
despite last weekend's ABC-TV tele­-received six first-place votes and 
based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents
phone poll, which branded the 1,033 points. Last week, the Gators are Italicized. Associated Pre88 Notre Dame guard Larry Williams Cougars as anything but the nation's were No. 1 on five ballots and was named to the AP second-team top team -191,336 voters said they received 1,048 points. 1. Brigham Young (33.5) t2-D-O t,09t.5 NEW YORK -Mark Bavaro, the offense. should not be: No. 1 while 166,590 This week's other first-place vote 2. Oklahoma (t6.6) 9-t-t t.083.5 leading receiver on Notre Dame's Three other Notre Dame players,
3. Florida (6) 9-t-t t,033
thought they should. went to Washington, 10-1, which 4. Washington (t) to-t-O 963 Aloha Bowl-bound team, was the center Mike Kelley, running back Al­Brigham Young received 33.5 of received 963 points. The Huskies 5. Nebraska 9-2-0 888 only Indiana college player selected len Pinkett and placekicker John 
6. Ohio State 9-2-0 
8tt to the 1984 Associated Press All­Carney, received honorable men­57 first-place votes and 1,091. 5 of a were followed by Sugar Bowl-bound South Carolina 808
7. 10-1-0 
possible 1,140 points from a Nebraska, 9-2, with 888 points. 8. Boston College 9-2-0 767 America football team. tion on offense. 
9. Oklahoma Stste 
Sixth-place Ohio State, 9-2, which 9-2-0 725 Notre Dame tackle Mike Gann
nationwide panc:l of sports writers 9-2-0 608
I0. So. Methodist 
The 242-pound Bavaro, consid­
and sportscasters. Oklahoma, No. 2 meets Southern California in the II. LSU 8-2-1 525 was named to honorable mention on t2. Maryland Notre
for the second week in a row, Rose Bowl, received 811 points to 8-3-0 484 ered Dame's best blocking defense, along with Indiana 
13. Miami 8-4-0 416 
received 16.5 first-place votes and 808 for No. 7 South Carolina, 10-1. t4. UCLA 8-3-0 342 tight end since Dave Casper, has an­linebacker Joe Fitzgerald and 
1,083. 5 points. The Gamecocks play Oklahoma 15. Florida State 7-3-1 27t other season of eligibility remaining Purdue back Rod Woodson. t6. Auburn 8-3-0 2t3 
after missing the 1982 season with The AP All-America team will be
A week ago, with 59 of the 60 State in the Gator Bowl. 17. Notre o.m. 7-4-0 2t0 voters participating, BYU led Okla­Eighth-place Boston College con­18. Southem Cal 8-3-0 191 an injury. However, he has elected featured Sunday, Dec. 16, on Bob 
t9. Texas 7-3-t t36
homa 34.5-18.5 in first-place votes cluded a 9-2 regular season by 7-3-t 74 to forego his final season of Hope's Christmas special, entitled,
20. Wisconsin 
eligibility and graduate with his
and 1,133.5-1,128.5 in points. Brig­trouncing Holy Cross 4 5-10. The "Ho-Ho Hope's 35th Jolly Christmas ham Young, the nation's only un-Eagles, who meet Houston in the class. Hour (NBC-TV, 9 p.m.). 
~ REALISTIC"' 

~«; +PC2000 
HIGH TECH PERM COMPUTER SYSTEM 
I 
I 
Everything you ever wanted
I 
I 
in a perm is here! 
I 
I 
~.,. ---­

I I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I ' 
\
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
I 
I 
I I ST. LOUIS $39* DALLAS/FT. WORTH $59* 
I 
I SAN mANCISCO/OAKLAND $99* I LA.jLONG BEACH $99* 
I
1 Tlwre's a great deal to enjoy on Jet Ametica. Excellent service from our friendly. helpfulI It's thl' grl:'at Night-Bdorl:' Seat Sale. coming to an people. A delicious gourmet meal. And. lots of room I dirflllt1 near you1 • to stretch out and relax-at a fare that's more than 
It's l.'asy to confirm your reservation. Just buy fair. It's great'
I 
~.·our onl'-wav tickl't with cash or check at the Jet So take off with the great Night-Before Seat I Anwtica tick~t countl:'r at O'Hare any night from Sale. And discover the ,Jet America difference. I q to 11 p.m And get a great deal when you take I off the ven; next dav.
I -. 
CALL 234-5350 OPEN Walk-Ins 143 Dixie Way South M-F:9-8 Welcome

iC)lcke~!:e!s~~!~!eJ!!'!!ck:.!!el 
Roseland-South Bend Sat: 8-5 Only I mil. 
fromcllmpult

~ from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. nightly I 
.._________________________________________
.liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
The Observer Wednesday, December 5, 1984-page 10 
just looking for position to follow 
the shot."

Boards 

continued from page 12 
late, it would seem that rebounding might be a weakness against defensive-minded Indiana. However, Phelps emphasized to his players the importance of the big men blocking out and the possibility of Notre Dame's guards picking up the rebounds. 
"Coach Phelps wanted me to go to the boards a lot," Hicks explained. "He feels that I have quickness to get to the open areas of the floor, and with Indiana's guards being not very good rebounders, we tried to tie up their big men underneath to allow our guards to get the loose balls." 
Hicks, also saddled with the responsibilty of guarding Steve Al­ford, finished with five boards, with four comingin the first half. Price ac­counted for three rebounds, all in the first half. 
"We carried through with the game plan," Phelps stated. "We dominated the boards, sagged on defense and executed our points. Going into the game, we were con­cerned with their big men." 
Jim Dolan added seven more boards, but his role in the Notre Dame scheme was more of a people mover to shut down the inside game ofthe Hoosiers than one designed to actually get the rebounds. 
"Dolan pushed people around un­derneath," Royal continued, "and Scott and I just looked for the openings. We were a lot more ag­gressive than Indiana, which also allowed us to get some offensive rebounds. When we are coming down the floor on the transition, I'm 
Indiana coach Bob Knight noted the intense play of Notre Dame. "Notre Dame players go after things," said a very calm Knight during his post-game comments. "They are a tough team to play, and they got the better of us in aggres­siveness tonight." 
The press also contributed to the Notre Dame running game. Phelps went to a trap press with Indiana in the lead, 22-16, after starting with only contain pressure. That strategy resulted in six points by Rivers, all following Hoosier mistakes which led to running situations for the Irish. 
"When we went to the trap press, it gave us the intensity that Indiana didn't have," Phelps pointed out. "Our big men did a job on theirs, epecially Gary Voce on (Uwe) Blab. Royal also played very well, and he has been playing to his quickness, which creates things for us defensively." 
Although Royal scored only six points, five of them came as a result of his offensive rebounding. Just over three minutes into the game, the 6-8 sophomore followed a Ken Barlow miss to put the Irish ahead 6-4. With ten minutes left in the game, after Indiana had pulled within nine points at 58-49, Royal grabbed a missed free throw by Dave Rivers, and converted a three­point play on his second follow of the shot. 
Price added his two offensive rebounds in the last two minutes of the first half, converting on a wide­open layup off of a Hicks miss, and retaining possession of the ball for the Irish after Voce missed a one­and-one opportunity. 

In the Indiana game, the Irish only picked up where they left off against Northwestern -playing an ag­gressive, pressure defense and con­trolling the boards to get their transition game going. 
Phelps claims that the Irish are "ready to go" and has no plans to change the thus-far successful Notre Dame game plan of pressing, rebounding and utilizing the transi­tion game against DePaul on Satur· day. 
Irish 

continuedjrompage 12 
Jim Dolan, playing in his first game this season after missing the first three due to a preseason shoulder injury suffered against the Zadar Club of Yugoslavia, pulled down seven rebounds himself. 
"It didn't bother me too much," said Dolan of the shoulder after the game. "We'll just have to wait until tomorrow to see how it feels." 
CenterTim Kempton, meanwhile, sat out the game with the sprained ankle he suffered last week against Northwestern. Kempton had the okay of team doctors to play, but Phelps' plan was to get by without him if possible so as to further rest the injury for the DePaul game. 
"We're excited about the win," added Dolan. "It gives us a lot ofcon­fidence because we know now that we can win with injuries." 
The question becomes, then, what Notre Dame can do at full strength. 

The Observer/Pc:tc: Laches 
jim Dolan (center) started for the Notre Dame basketball team last night after missing the first three games of the season with a shoulder injury. Here, Dolan appears to be boxed in by Hoosiers ToddMeier(left) andMike Giomi(41), buthesucceededin boxing them out enough to grab seven rebounds in the game. jeffBlumb and Theron Roberts detail the action on the backpage. 

Sports Menu 
Basketball: 
NO Women vs. Western Michigan 7 p.m. at ACC Arena 
Swimming: 
ND vs. Bowling Green at Rockne Memorial Pool Women at 4 p.m. Men at 7 p.m. 




EHIO 
A 

University of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study Programs 
Tiajin, china 
MARRIAGE AND FAMILY IN CHINA 
Lecture by Zheng Yun-shen Tianjin Foreign Languages Institute 
Satellite Room 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall Wednesday, December 5 6:30p.m. 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
-----·· 
Today_________________..._·___w_e_d~
...n_e_s_d_ay_,_o_e_c_e_m_b_er_s_,1_9_8_4--p-ag_e_ll 
Doonesbury 

Tank McNamara 
Garry Trudeau 

THIS 5La3P
h5AIN, 
AlP PROVIPBP
FlAT RAT& 
A5APUEJUC
TAXATION/ 
SCRV!CE. 
I 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

ACROSS  39 Jeweled  71 Arab land  10 Tun  
1 Treat with  headdress  72  -over (helps in  11 Sheltered  
scorn 5 "It's ­unusual day" 10 Oueeg's rank: abbr. 14 Stockings 15 Gr. coins 16 Agalloch 17 Tucson's state: abbr. 18 Scoff 19 Ascertained 20 Advice to a crook? 23 Good golf score 24 Nick's dDg 25 Spinner  41 Advice to keep going 44-acid 45 Eng. author of old 46 Egyptian killers 47 Talent or cub 49 Evergreen 51 "Give us-day..." 54 Embers 59 Grow prosperous! 65 Spindle 66 Marriage ­67 Chi·chi 68 Fad  a pinch) 73 Being: Lat. DOWN 1 Layered rock 2 Water wheel 3 Exerting 4 Cutting tool edge 5 "They­serve..." 6 Cafe card 7 Puccini forte 8 Rumba and  12 Bard 13 Sawbucks 21 Still 22 Saguaros 26 Sp. gold 27 Muni or Anka 29 Verdi heroine 30 Straggles 31 Kind of school 32 F. Lee Bailey's org. 33 Totals 34 Ambler or Blare 35 Part of A.D. 37 Test 38 In a fit way  
28 Overcharge  waltz  40 Dunderhead  
32 Puzzled  69 Battery part  9 Medium's  42 Shaver  
36Pro-·  70 Angler's gear  cards  43·Bread  

NEEDED: 
ANY STUDENT INTERESTED in the position of: *business manager *publicityI marketing director for second semester 
For: Cultural Arts Commission Student Activities Board Call:239-7757 or283-1274 
Campus 

•4 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Women vs. Bowling Green, Rockne Memorial. 

•4:30 
p.m.-Microbiology Seminar, "Biological Innovation and Genetic Intervention," Dr. Harvey Bender, NO, Room 278 Galvin. 

•4:30 
p.m. -AFROTC Fall Awards Ceremony, Ubrary Auditorium. 

•4:45 
-6:45 p.m. · OBUD Gripe Night, South Dining Hall. 

•5-10:30 
p.m.· Sale ofGift Items, Sponsored by St. Francis Shoppe, Memorial Library Lobby, Until Dec. 7. • 

•6:30 
p.m. · Toastmasters International, Organization to Improve Public Speaking, Room 223 Hayes Healy, Free. 

•6:30 
p.m. · Madrigal Dinner, Haggar College Center Parlor, Reservations Only, S 12. 

•7 
p.m. -lecture, "Earthquake Disa'iter in the Mid­west?" Dr. J. K. Rigby, NO, Little Theatre, Lafortune, Sponsored by Environmental Concerns Org. 

•7 
p.m.-Swimming, ND Men vs. Bowling Green, Rockne Memorial. 

•7 
p.m. -Wednesday Night Fllm Series, "The Man Who Shot liberty Valance," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7 
p.m.-Basketball, ND Women vs. Western Mic­higan, ACC Arena. 

•7, 
9:15 & II :30 p.m. -Fllm, "Star Wars," Eng!· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Sl.50. 



© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


58 Fashion 59 Gambling game 60 School chore 61 Pond plant 
55 Springe 62 Adolescent 56 "-toyou!" 63 Wave: Fr. 57 Kefauver 64 Exploits 
Tuesday's Solution 




TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT Engineering Aud 

$1.50 
7:00 9:15 11:30 
TM 

• 
t 
l l 
•~ 
k 

ByJEFF BLUMB 
AsststantSports Edttor 
Steve Alford. 

U.S. Olympic team point guard. Key to Indiana's offense . Rarely gets his hands on the ball. Notre Dame beats Indiana. 74-63. It had been preached and 
preached and preached. Practiced and practiced and practiced. Keep the ball out of Steve Alford's hands and you can beat Indiana, they were told. 
Following orders, Notre Dame did just that -kept the ball out of the talented Alford's hands for much of the night-and knocked off the II th­ranked Hoosiers last night at the ACC. The Irish go to 4-0 as they point toward a key battle with second-ranked DePaul Saturday at the Rosemont Horizon. The Hoosiers, meanwhile, drop to 1-2 and face the prospect ofgoing home to play Kentucky. 
From the outset, it was the abilityJ of Notre Dame to deny Alford the Ibe Observer/Pete Lacbcs ball time and time again that kept the 
David Rivers, Notre Dame point guard, sparked the Irish to a Indiana offense under wraps for 74-63 upset of 11th-ranked Indiana last night. jeff Blumb much of the night. The IU sopho­describes the game in his story at right, and Theron Roberts dis­more, who had averaged 20.5 points cusses Notre Dame's rebounding below. through the Hoosiers' first two 
ND dominates boards and running game 
Wednesday, December 5, 1984 -page 12 
S~orts 
Notre Dame upsets 11th-ranked Hoosiers, 74-63 
Keeping ball away from Alford becomes the key to Irish victory last night in ACC 
By TIIERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
Probably most evident in Notre Dame's impressive victory last night over Indiana was its continued suc­cess using the transition game. But perhaps even more important than that was the aggressive play of the Irish on the boards and the scrappy defense which started many of the fast breaks. 
The hard-nosed rebounding of 
Donald Royal, Scott Hicks and enabled him to end up getting the Joseph Price in the first half kept the ball. 
Irish transition game in motion and "Coach (Digger Phelps) told us prevented second .shots by the that IU's weakness was blocking out, Hoosiers. Aggressiveness and good especially on the weakside after they position on defense throughout the put up a shot," Royal said. "So every game resulted In a 39-28 Notre time they shot, we were looking to Dame rebounding advantage. go to the open spaces and get the 
Royal was an especially prevalent rebound to start the break." rebounding force, grabbing 12 With the number of injuries that caroms in the contest. Many of his has plagued the Irish frontline as of rebounds came from within a crowd of red jerseys, but Royal's tenacity see BOARDS, page 10 games, could manage but four on I­for-6 shooting. More importantly for the Irish, Alford set up only two Hoosier scores. 
"We really played hard-nosed defense on him," said Irish guard Scott Hicks, assigned the difficult task of stopping Alford for most of the game. "We played a sagging defense designed to deny Alford the ball. I'd get help from other players if he curled or whatever. It was kind of a zone defense." 
"We were fortunate to get away with what we did tonight," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps· ad­mitted. "We helped out a lot and conceaed some outside shots at the beginning. Hicks just did a fantastic job on Alford." 
"Hicks was the key on defense," said a mild-mannered Indiana coach· Bob Knight afterward. "If I were rating him on a scale of one to ten, I would say that Sco~t Hicks was over five as one of the reasons that Steve Alford didn't score a lot. 
"Notre Dame was well set-up defensively. From my standpoint, Notre Dame is the kind of team I would like to play a lot because it always plays enthusiastically. (The Irish) were tough as always tonight." 
Indiana jumped out to 22-16lead in the game's first 12 minutes on the strength of I2 points from senior forward Mike Glomi. Glomi was 9­for-10 from the field on the night, and was IU's leading scorer with 18 points before fouling out. 
At that point, Indiana had its big­gest lead. of the game. But Notre Dame responded by scoring 29 points to the Hoosiers' eight, includ­ing one 18-2 spurt, over the halfs final eight minutes. The Irish never looked back from their 45-30 halftime advantage. 
"One of the keys in the game was that 18-2 stretch," said Knight. "We got very careless in what we were doing. Now all of a sudden we're lQ down. We played well in the first 12 minutes before we hit that spell." 
After m~ng only two of his first nine shots, Ken Barlow, who finished the game with I 5 points, came back to make four consecutive jumpers in the second half, scoring eight ofNotre Dame's first I3 points in that period. Despite that, Indiana pulled back to within nine at 58-49. 
Notre Dame did not fold like it could have, though. Donald Royal grabbed the rebound of a missed free throw by David Rivers. He put up a shot that missed, but then fol­lowed it up and was fouled by IU's Brian Sloan. Royal converted the three-point play and the Irish were back up by I2, 62-49. 
Indiana was able to knock the margin down to nine again at 66-57 with 3:37 remaining, but Notre Dame matched Indiana's points the rest ofthe way, finally stretching the lead out to II at game's end. 
"In the second half, IU had its spurt but we didn't lose our com­posure," said Phelps. "The kids hung in there even though we made some mistakes. Barlow came on and (Dan) Duff helped us tremendously off the bench. 
"We hit our foul shots under pres­sure and we played the boards ag­gressively under pressure. That was the key." 
Rivers led all scorers with 23 points, including 9-for-II from the line. His free-throw shooting down the stretch iced the game for the Irish, as the Hoosiers elected to foul the freshman often. 
Royal pulled down a game-high 12 rebounds as Notre Dame dominated the boards, outrebound­ing Indiana, 39-28. 
see IRISH, page 10 


Irish need Wheaties to play with the big boys 
Hello again, everybody! 
around in the backcourt along with junior Tony Jackson, Come on in, take a seat. and that duo will give the younger tandem of Rivers and We're gonna tellyou what the big boys eat. Chuck Freeby Hicks all they can handle. Put an extra bowl ofWheaties on the table for the Notre On the front line, few teams have the combination of
Sports Writec
Dame basketball team, because the Irish will need all their strength and quickness that DePaul does. Senior Tyrone
----~~~~-------­
strength this week. Notre Dame will certainly find out lnsh Items Corbin is the anchor of the front line at his small forward 
what it takes to hang around with the big boys of college spot, but he gets lots ofhelp from center Marty Embry and 
basketball. The Irish were certainly pumped up for last sophomore sensation Dallas Comegys. Comegys is by far 
night's contest with Indiana, but now they have to put it for spectators over 5-5. DePaul is an incredible 68-3 while the flashiest forward, and he has a tendency to tone up his 
into overdrive to get ready for Saturday's showdown with playing at the Horizon, and they have not lost at home shot-blocking skills in big games. Look for his play to be a 
DePaul at the Rosemont Horizon. since Gonzaga turned the trick during the 1982-83 cam­major factor in Notre Dame's success or failure on Satur­
Ifl had a vote, the Irish definitely would be in the Top 20 paign. day. after last night's game. Sure, David Rivers was important That news does not bode well for Notre Dame, which Despite all the offensive stars, though, the key to this with 23 points, but the credit for this one should go to the has been about as successful on the road the last few years game will be defense. The Blue Demons play a very ag­defense, which shut down the Hoosiers in the last 10:50 of as Bob Uecker has been getting seats in the front row. gressive man-to-man defense that allowed opponents to the first half to break the game open. Scott Hicks and Dan These facts make Saturday's game all the more important connect on only 41 percent of their shots from the floor Duff just completely took Steve Alford, one of the top for the Irish, as they attempt to prove they belong among last year. The Irish also have been tough on defense this players in the nation, right out of the game. Alford was the ranks of college basketball's elite. A win, even a close year, showing an ability to force turnovers and shut down averaging 20.5 points per game entering the contest, but game with DePaul, would offer some proof that the Irish opponents for long periods oftime. Look for Phelps to mix last night he could collect only four points. can play with anyone. things up between man-to-man and his patented matchup 
Also, give some credit to players like Joseph Price, who It won't be easy, however, as Digger Phelps will have to zone. 
came offthe bench to score 1 0 points in the first half. Give decide whether or not he is going to try to run with the Overall, it looks like Saturday's game has all the makings some credit to Ken Barlow, who connected on several Blue Demons, who mov:e much faster than the Fullerton of a typical nip-and-tuck Notre Dame-DePaul contest, and outside jumpers. Give some credit to Donald Royal, who Street El trains that pass behind the Belden Avenue it should serve as a good indicator of whether or not the did a magnificent job on the boards in replacing Tim campus. Former DePaul coach Ray Meyer said on his Sun­Irish can eat at the same table as the biggest ofthe bigboys. Kempton. Give the whole team some credit, because they day morning TV show that he expects Digger to go with Pick ofthe Week. .. Sexist? Me sexist? Not on your life! deserve it. the halfcourt offense. Digger says he's going to run. Cur­That means that if the women's swimming team was last 
Nevertheless, Notre Dame cannot afford to rest on its rent Depaul coach, Joey Meyer, hasn't said anything, but week's pick, you know the men's swimming team will get laurels. While the Irish may wish to savor a victory over the nobody is Ustening to him anyway, because everybody still the nod this week. Coach Dennis Stark sends his team back II th-ranked Hoosiers for quite some time, the mark of a is asking Ray what's going to happen. into the waters of the Rockne Memorial Pool tonight to 
truly good team is to come off an emotional performance Still, it's an important decision, because everybody take on Bowling Green. like the one witnessed last night with another solid perfor­knows DePaul likes to run. Senior point guard Kenny Pat­It will be your last chance to see the Irish, led by co­mance. terson is one of the best in the nation at executing the captains Tim Bohdan and Brian Casey, swim at home until 
So, now the Irish have to travel to the Horizon, an arena transition game, and ifyou don't believe it, you didn't sec February, so change those plans and head over to the Rock which bas been as uncomfortable for visiting teams, as it is any of the UCLA game last Saturday. He'll move things to catch all the action. 





