. -------------~­
Irish Extra -page 9 


VOl. XIX, NO. 26 
·­
\ 
You're on the air 
Sopb(mmre Stephanie Siegel tried ber voice as a Djfor tbefirst time last night on WVFI-AM64. Sbe is being trained by Senior Kurt Holzberlein, wbo is 
till' 111dqwndcnt 'tlldl'lll nt'\\ 'p;qwr 't·n mg IH>lrt d.tnH· and ,,IIIli man·, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1984 
"/ Alumni's party policy 
~ 
J a~ ~ 
' --~--­
~ 
The ObKrvcr/Carol Gain 
tbe station manager at WlP/. Stephanie is one of tbe many newpeople who'll be comin' atyou over tbe airwaves tbis year. WlP/ can only be beard on tbe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 


affirms rector control of dorm alcohol issues 
By MARY CAROL CREADON 
StaffReporter 
It would be ridiculous for the Stu­dent Affairs Office to make policies concerning exactly how loud stereos can be played or how many people are allowed at a social gather­ing, says Father David Tyson, since every hall is different in many ways. 
Tyson, vice president for student affairs, said Wednesday it is the rec­tor's prerogative to interpret and ap­ply the alcohol regulations within the framework ofthe general policy. 
This issue was recently raised in Alumni Hall where Father George Rozum, hall rector, formally an­nounced his interpretation of the al­cohol policy. In his statement "Regarding Social Gatherings In Alumni Hall" released last week, Rozum took an excerpt from the "Final Report ofthe University Com­mittee on the Responsible Use ofAl­cohol" and translated it into weekend Alumni Hall life. 
Rozum's statement Includes two main regulations not present in the general University guidelines. They are: ( 1) Social gatherings in private rooms must not exceed "eight-10 people in a quad and five-six in a double;" and (2) "The general 
weekend tenor of the hall favors a quiet, relaxed able-to-study-in-any­room atmosphere." 
In response to Rozum's social gat­hering policy, Patrick Beaudine, an Alumni junior, circulated a petition which read,"We find life at Notre Dame unbearable. We reject the idea that Alumni Hall should 'favor a quiet, relaxed able-to-study-in-any­room atmosphere' on weekends. If people would like to study on Friday and Saturday nights, they can go to the library." Two-hundred and seventeen residents of Alumni, ex­cluding resident assistants, signed this petition. 
Beaudine says the policy may have been released In response to the fact that Alumni wa'i "almost like a zoo" the weekend before Its release. But Beaudlne says he hopes this petition will bring about negotiations between Rozum and Alumni residents. He also said If Rozum "wants Alumni to be like our home, as he says, we should have a voice in what rules are made there." 
According to Tyson, Rozum cer­tainly has the authority to impose these rules. Unlike the alcohol policy released by James Roemer, 
see ALUMNI, page 5 


Sex discrimination at issue in faculty law suits 


By MARY HEAlY 
StaffReporter 
Although women taught at Notre Dame long before they were ad­mitted a'> students, the trend toward equalization has been even slower for the faculty than for the student body. Women now comprise only I 'i percent of the total faculty compared to 28 percent of the stu­dents. 
"Of course we do not dis­criminate on the basis of sex," said Provost Timothy O'Meara, referring to the faculty hiring, promotion and tenure decisions which he oversees. "It's a matter of the quality of the in­dividual." 
But some teachers have claimed usually comes up for renewal after otherwise. In the past six years, at three years ofteaching. The contract lj:ast five faculty members have sued is renewed for another three years, the University for sex discrlmina-• after which the teacher may apply 
tion, sometimes In addition to religi­nus or age discrimination. 
"I think there are problems with (discrimination) here . . . it's not easy to be a woman on the faculty at Notre Dame," said former assistant professor Eileen Bender, who sued Notre Dame last Aug. 31 for discrim­ination on the basis of sex, age and religion. Bender's suit charges that her three-year contract was not renewed despite two successive recommendations by her colleagues in the English department. 
A faculty member's contract for tenure (a guarantee of non-dismissal except for serious cause). 
Q d 
Sex Discrimination 
For both contract renewal and tenure applications, the candidate submits a package of credentials which may include published works, letters of recommendation, and teacher evaluation forms. 
An elected committee headed by the chairman of the department reviews the package. "The commit­tee decides on the basis ofcontribu­tions to the department, scholarly work, service, how active the can­didate is in giving lectures at profes­sional meetings, and how many doctoral or masters students are taught by the candidate," explained O'Meara. "The committee then makes a recommendation by vote." 
The committee's decision is sent to the dean ofthe college. even Ifthe chairman disagrees with it. From there, the recommendation goes to the provost, who discusses it with a meeting ofhand-picked advisors in a February meeting. Finally, it is sent for approval to the University presi-, dent. 
O'Meara estimated that an average of 50 to 60 applications for tenure, contract renewal, andl promotion arrive at Hesburgh's desk for approval each year. 
Bender's suit claims she was sub· jected to more stringent reviews than younger faculty members with similar or less Impressive teaching records than her own. Although the committee twice recommended Bender for renewal, the University both times rejected the application. 
Dolores Frese, also an a'isistant professor in the English department, 
see\vOMEN, page 4 
No, it's not a hot tub. It's only the foun­again. At least they haven't thought of tain outside Nieuwland Science Hall, and putting them in the lake -yet. 

The Center was selected by Grace last year to be the beneficiary upon recommendation by a Grace Hall resident. 
some silly students have put bubbles in it, 
The Observer Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 2 
I suppose this means I am a naturalized member of 



In Brief -, . · · 
Almost 1,800 clerical and technical 
workers struck Yale University on Wednesday in a dispute they say stems from unequal pay for women. The strike disrupted food ser­vice at the Ivy League campus and prompted many teachers to hold class in movie theaters and churches. Local 34 of the Federation of University Employees, which represents 2,650 workers, went on strike at 5 a.m. after its negotiators rejected the Ivy League school's latest contract offer. The union has never had a contract with Yale, and has been negotiating with the university off and on since Octo­ber 1983. Union officials said the school's offer was "totally inade­quate," but Yale President A. Bartlett Giamatti said it was all the university could afford. -AP 
The anti-abortion protesters dogging 
Geraldine Ferraro's steps have been called to action by national publications and a network of well-organized local groups, partici­pants say. Chanting, "Life Yes, Ferraro No," the sign-waving ralliers have been a fixture -and increasingly, a source of controversy -at almost every Ferraro campaign stop since she became the Demo­cratic vice-presidential nominee in July. In recent weeks, the anti­a~ortion protesters have been joined by Reagan-Bush supporters and their chants of"Four more years" and "Reagan, Reagan, Reagan" in concerted efforts to dirupt her speeches. Republican campaign officials have denied any role in the demonstrations, and national anti-abortion groups this week also claimed no direct involvement. One said it was working with the Reagan campaign on other matters. 
-AP 
Lawyers for L.L. Bean, a sportswear and outdoor gear company, contend in a 516 million suit that the satirical "L.L. Beam Back-to-School Sex Catalog" is libelous, deceptive and an in­fringement on trademark. But Drake Publishers Inc., which publishes the sex magazine High Society in which the parody ap­pears, contend Bean should be flattered to receive the attention. L.L. Bean attorneys complained that sporting goods were used in hard­core pornographic pictures, and that readers are apt to associate L.L Bean products with the magazine. Parodies of the L.L. Bean catalog have been published in the past, but Isaacson said those were not "vulgar or offensive." Isaacson said it is not that the company lacks a good sense ofhumor. "Your honor, this is filth," he said. -AP 
Corby'S Tavernhas filed an appeal of the revocation of the bar's liquor license with the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Co_m­mission. The IBC revoked Corby's license last week as a result of a May 4 incident in which 25 persons, including several Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were charged at the bar for violations of state liquor laws. According to state law, Corby's can remain open under the protection of the bankruptcy court while working out a plan to pay its creditors. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Department ofMusic 
will present Laura Klugherz in a Faculty Violin Recital on Sunday afternoon at 4 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Klugherz will be accompanied by Professor William Cerny, pianist. She will perform works by Rodrigo, Bartok, Sarasate, and Faure. The concert is free and open to the public. --The Obsever 

VVeather · 
Mostly cloudy and cool today. High in middle 50s to about 60. Clearing and very cool Friday night. Low in mid and up­per 30s. Increasing cloudiness and cool Satur­day. High in middle and upper 50s. -AP 

Today's issue was produced by,
The Observer 
Design Editor, ............................. Tom Small Design Assistant ........... Maureen Murphy Layout Staff... Elena, Matt, Mike, jennifer Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is News Editor ............................Amy Stephan published Monday through Friday and Copy Editor .................................... Liz Miller on home football Saturdays, except Sports Copy Editor ..................... Jeff Blumb during exam and vacation periods. The lrlsb Extra Layout................ Chris Bowler Observer is published by the students of Viewpoint Copy Editor.......... Katie Doyle the University of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoint Layout................john Mennell Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Features Copy Editor............... Cat Francis purchased for 130 per year ( $20 per se­Features Layout.................. Kevin and Phil mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. ND Day Editor .................jeanne Bowman Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. SMC Day Editor ........................ Shirley Ore The Observer Is a member of The Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix Assodated Press. All reproduction Pbotograpber ............................ Carol Gales rights are reserved. Vic Guarino 



The apple is not quite ripe _ 
the computer generation. I can't stand to write a paper without using a word processor. 
The idea of putting pen to college-ruled paper and expounding for pages strikes me as entirely wasteful. I'll have to type the whole thing anyhow, so why not just type it into a computer, alter it, rearrange it, polish it, and then hit the print command. There is nothing quite like the joy ofhitting that final print command. 
When the Apple Computer Co. announced last Janu­ary that a consortium of 24 universities --including Notre Dame --would be offering the Macintosh per­sonal computer at a 50 percent discount, I thought my manuscript days would be over. Here was a reasonably priced computer, simple to use with all sorts of tech­nological breakthroughs included. 
But I was warned by those who know about such things: "If companies don't do a good job on the software, forget about it." I haven't forgotten about the much-touted computer; I've just waited. And it appears that the verdict has not been handed down yet. 
"The software is not com­ing out fast enough for the demand, but more's on the way," says Jill Middendorf, manager of the General Micro store in the basement of LaFortune. She says that some companies ---such as Lotus Corp., designers ofthe popular 1-2-3 spreadsheet program --were waiting for the upgraded memory in the Neces5i{ies ofcol/e~ life · ­
512K Macintosh, released September 10. 
Matt Mehan, senior com­puter analyst for Salomon Brothers, a New York invest­ment firm, says that software companies have had greater problems than anticipated adjusting to the Macintosh's processor and user interface. But "there's a lot ofdevelopment going on," he says. 
The software shortage did nothing to help sluggish summer sales of the Macintosh, which "have been flat on the retail level for the past two months," says Mehan. Apple even cut prices on its Apple II and Macintosh computer lines by as much as 5300. But those decreases won't show up· at Notre Dame. General Micro and the University raised the discounted price approximately five percent to cover the cost of hiring an administra­tive assistant, according to Middendorf. 
Even with the increase, the $2,052 base price of the 512K Macintosh is some $1, I00 less than the regular retail price. But is it worth it? The answer seems to be a qualified yes. 
"It's great for students," says Mehan. "It's a fun and interesting machine." But he adds that the Macintosh is 
Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 
Inside Friday 


"a computer for the idiot. It's not a challenging com­
puter." But coming from an expert, perhaps that's just what I 
want to hear. I don't want a challenging computer. I 
want one that will process verbiage, keep track of files 
and run programs--all with a minimum ofbother. 
But the software problem seems to be quite a bother. For word processing, MacWrite has numerous limita­tions, especially when writing footnotes and tailoring reports. And the prototype of Word, the long-awaited product of the Microsoft Corporation, still has some problems which will? prevent its release until 
• early next year. I wish I could eagerly JOm the Macintosh crowd. There's a new Mac users club on campus, and Middendorf says that computers are being delivered only four weeks after ordering, down substantially from the spring. Predictions of 1984 sales of the computer are 
-running as high as 300,000 units, quite a lot of com­puter brethren. 
A computer is not yet a 
dorm room necessity. Trans­
ferring 2,052 pictures of 

George Washington over to Apple Computer will not occur until I'm sure that the machine will do everything I want it to do. Until then, I'll just be writing papers wherever I can, and I may even have to scribble a, gasp, rough draft. 
The Obseroer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the' views of the editorial board or The Obseroer staff. 


Drunk driving is no accident. 
Drunk driving is the most fre­quently committed crime in the U.S., but it can be prevented when we care enough to take positive ac­tion and when our positive action becomes publicly contagious. 
New laws, endorsed by In­diana's governor, were im­plemented last fall. They set up mandatory license suspensions for those who fail breath tests and even larger suspensions for those who refuse the test. 
But changes in law cannot solve the problem alone; changes in peo­ple's attitudes must also occur. In time this change in attitude will come about because there is no denying that a drunk driving arrest is financially expensive, publicly embarrassing, and personally humiliating. Drunk driving is ir­responsible and potentially fatal. 

Hey, let's be careful out there. 
Public service announcement by the Governor's Task Force to Reduce 


~lngandTheOboane• 



lb~ Ob~rvrr/Carol GaJrs 

Purdue President Steven Beerlng and Indiana University Presi­dent john Ryan spoke at South Bend's Century Center yesterday. They are shown here answering questions after the talks, in which they asked their audience ofcandidatesfor Indiana's General As­sembly for increased financial aid for higher education. Story at rl bt. 
Poetry in Bible addressed at SMC 
By MARK DILLON ing its theology requirement from "the Bible was written as a commu­News Staff one to two courses, with particular nity document in antiquity and still stress on the Bible. The first course effects the faith community of Internationally known Biblical ex­in the new program is titled today." Father Rowland in­"Foundations in 

pert Murphy Theology" ~and augurated the new theology focuses on the study of the program at Saint Mary's with a Scriptures. lecture titled "Love Poetry in the Murphy gave three reasons for Bible." choosing "Love Poetry in the Bible" 
"Ibis year Saint Mary's is increas-as his topic. The first of these is that 
Saint Mary's security says no leads on stolen bicycles 
By CLAIRE KNEUER 
News Staff 
Six bicycles were stolen from the l.emans Hike rack at Saint Mary's sometime before Monday. 
Mary Anne Potter discovered six clipped locks on the rack and reported them to Saint Mary's Se­curity Director Richard Chlebek Monday morning. 
Only four missing bicycle reports have been filed, accor­ding to Chlebek. "Students take up to two weeks to report a mis· sing bicycle; they don't check on them daily," he said. 
Chlebek has instigated several new measures to prevent bicycle thefts including extra lighting and special officers posted around the Lemans bike rack. Most thefts occur in this area. 

lbis particular bike rack was under surveillance for a week earlier this semester, but there were no attempts at theft. For added protection, Chlebek recommends bicycle owners check their bicycles daily and register them with Saint Mary's security and Indiana state registration. 
lbere are no leads as yet on the missing bikes. 
-
-~---------~~-----­
Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 3 


I.U., Purdue presidents tour state, call for higher education funding 
By DOUG HASLER 
News Staff 
President of Indiana University, John Ryan, and president of Purdue University, Steven Beering, joined yesterday in calling for the state to invest in higher education in speeches given at South Bend's Cen­tury Center. 
South Bend was the final stop on the six-city tour of the presidents of Indiana's two largest universities. The tour included Anderson, Co­lumbus, Fort Wayne, Hammond, and Indianapolis. 
At each city, the presidents have made their appeal for more funds to audiences dominated by candidates for Indiana's General Assembly. 
Beering, beginning his second year as president of Purdue, pro­posed that increased funding go to three areas: equipment, faculty, and financial aid. "Our equipment is aging. Our supplies need to be on the cutting edge" of technology, Beering said. 
Secondly, Murphy said this is a ne­glected area of the Bible. "When studying the Scriptures teachers of­ten concentrate only on books such as Exodus or figures such as Jesus. Many are shocked at the discovery oflove poetry in the Bible," he said. 
His final reason is the importance of the topic. In the Song of Songs, a major focus in Murphy's lecture, the author offers a perspective on the beauty oflove. "literally, the Song of Songs focuses on the beauty of love between man and woman. It deals with such subjects as whether sex is beautiful and intended by God," Murphy said. The Song ofSongs can be interpreted as an expression of God's love for his people and Jesus' love for His Church. 
Murphy, who is now president of the Society of Biblical literature, an international group of biblical scholars, will be a visiting professor of Theology at the University of Notre Dame during the 1985 fall se­mester. 
Murphy, whose brother Father Dave Murphy teaches at Saint Mary's, said,"l'm looking forward to the fall of '85." 
Indiana's state universities are en­gaged in stiff competition with fel­low universities and industry for qualified faculty according to Beering. He proposes salary in· creases at both Purdue and Indiana to improve their dismal standings (8th and lOth, respectively) among Big 10 institutions. Beering also pro­posed a merit program to honor and reward the "best and brightest" pro­fessors. 
Citing the fact that two-thirds of all students at Indiana's public insti­tutions need financial aid, Beering proposed an 80 percent state in· crease in aid. 
Ryan, Indiana University presi­dent since 1971, emphasized the changing nature of the economy. The shift from manufacturing to ser­vice industries, Ryan claims, represents a challange to higher education. "The key to our future is to prepare our people for the infor­mation age," he said. 
Ryan related the growth and de· velopment ofthe state's economy to education, claiming that strong aca­demic institutions not only attract, but retain industries. 
The two presidents have joined together for this tour to achieve a common goal: the improvement of public education in Indiana. They represent not only their own univer· sitles, but also all state universities with which they have consulted. 
The president of Purdue's St. Joseph Alumni Association, Wes Williams, said the message of the statewide tour is "Here is what is happening in education. Here are our needs." 
While answering a question after the presentations, Beering equated the operation of a world class uni­versity to fielding a nationally com­petitive football team. At which point Ryan interjected 'I would like to avoid all references to football,' with the l.U. football team, defeated last weekend by Northwestern, In mind. 

NAVY MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide:
* 
Your full tu1tion, authonzed fees and educational expenses.

* 
The cost of required books and supplies.

* 
Rental fees for necessary equipment such as m1croscopes.

* 
A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 


Partocopatlon 1n the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not onvolve aroy molotary traonong nor requores weanng of a Navy unoform. Your academoc routone and Jolestyle woll remaon )he same as other medocal 
students. 

Qualifications for this scholarship include: Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. Be a U.S. citizen. Be physically qual1fied for a commission as a Naval Officer. 
For more information contact Kathy Scanlon TOLL FREE 1-800-382-9782 or local 269-6199 
Or write to: Medical Programs Room 646 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis, IN 46204 
Navy Representative will be on campus October 10 & 11 at the Student Union. 


-

r---------~-­
~ ~ ··-~-------------~-~­
--~-----~-~--------~ 
The Observer 


Women 
continuedfrom page 1 
sued Notre Dame in 1978 for denying her tenure because of sex discrimination. Frese charged the University with violating the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and discriminat­ing,with regards to salary, pension benefits, fringe benefits, assign­ments and other employment policies. Her case be~ame a class ac­tion suit for 81 female non-tenured faculty members at Notre Dame. 
Theology professors Josephine Ford and Elizabeth Fiorenza and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission joined Frese in her suit. 
In an out of court settlement, Notre Dame granted Frese several concessions including a tenured post as a full-time faculty member and back pay from September, 1980. The University also agreed to es­tablish an appeal procedure for any faculty women who believe they have been discriminted against with regard to tenure, promotion and contract renewal. 
Both Ford's and Fiorenza's cases were settled separately out ofcourt. "There's definitely been an improve­ment (since the settlement)," said Ford, who added that she was satisfied with the appeals procedure. 
ment, also brought suit against Notre Dame, alleging sex and age discrimination for its denial of her applications for tenure and promo­tion to assistant professor. 
D'Antuono's April, 1983 suit charged that Notre Dame granted tenure "to male faculty members ... who have had fewer publications, less adequate teaching reviews or less service to the professional com­munity." She also claimed "a younger male was hired to assume all or a portion" of her teaching re­sponsibility. 
D'Antuono's suit also charged that the University had violated the provisions of the 1981 Frese settle­ment. According to the suit, D'Antuono went through the ap­peals procedure but to no avat1. 
Currently, the percentage of wo­men on the teaching and research faculty (which has 760 members total) is 12.9 percent, up from 3.8 percent in the 1972-73 school year, the first of coeducation. As of the 1982-83 school year, only five wo­men were full professors, nine were associate professors and 32 were as­sistant professors. 
There are two major reasons for the discrepancies, said O'Meara. First, he said, "in terms of the tenure system a big body are locked in... a transition occurred in 1972 --go back 20 or 30 years ago, these were 

does not differ from the proportion 
for men. 
Edward Kline, chairman ofthe En­
glish department, asserts that the 
hiring and review processes in his 
department are non-discriminatory. 
"We have tried very, very hard to 
hire women at the same rate as 
men," said Kline. He added, "Our ap­
plicant pool has run two-thirds men 
and one-third women in the past few 
years. Whether a contract is 
renewed has absolutely nothing to 
do with one's sex." 
He said, however, "there probably are departments where that factor will enter in." 
However, others say they do not see a discrimination problem at Notre Dame. "I haven't experienced it," said Elizabeth Christman of the American studies department. "I don't believe it is a problem," said Assistant Provost Sister John Miriam Jones. 
Most faculty members seem to agree that sincere efforts are being made although progress is slower than some would like. Part ofthe dif­ficulty, according to Bender, is that the University "doesn't understand the qualities and dimensions of wo­men'slives. When they do, this will become a much better place, not only for women but for everybody." 

Food for thouoht 
n.eobservertearoJGalcs 

Rosa Soloun, a senior in 'Pari;;, Hall, peTUses the new sanita­tion rules for residence ballfood sales. The new rules came about as a result of surprise food sales inspections last year, which revealed many unsanitary conditions in the balls' operations. If allfood sales employees study the rules as thoroughly as Rosa ap­pears to be doing, surprise inspections should present no threat this 


Like Pizza? 
We have a good quality pizza specially designed for you II! 
N

*Economically Priced to fit your budget. 
N
* Conveniently Located to service all areas of campus. ,..
*Made Fresh here on campus
*Assortment of Good Toppings to choose from. 
*Pick up or Delivery available. n 
MENU Leprechaun Special .Pizza ••. $ 9.00 Taco Pizza ............... .. 7.80 Cheese Pizza ............. .. 5.80 Pizza Toppings ...••.......• 1.00 ea 
Pepperoni Sausage Mushrooms Chooped Ham Green Peppers Onions Black Olives Ground Beef 
**Special Offers * * 
With every pizza vurchased, you will receive a so~ coupon toward your next pizza. 
With a purchase of just 5 pizzas, you will receive a FREE "Leprechaun Pizza" T-shirt. 
0 
3:: 

THE HUDDLE OAK ROOM CAFE 
239-7157 239-7518 
Oak Room-9:00-1:00 a.m. (Sun-Thurs) 9:00-2:00a.m. (Fri, Sat) 
.,
,.. 
z 
< 

Anotherfine service of University Food Services 

The Observer Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 5 

Former Polish Ambassador to japan, Zdzislaw Rurarz spoke in the Hayes-Healy auditorium yesterday. He talked about centrally planned economies, concluding that they are "far from reality." Story at left. 
~ FREE * * * FREE ~ 
* * 
~ Dorms pick your representative ~ *to compete for funniest person** on campus at * 
: AMATEURNIGHT : 
lt AT lt 
: Senior Bar :* October 9, 9:00p.m. * 
lt Winner will be the OPENING ACT of the lt 
lt BUDWEISER COMEDY SHOP lt 
lt TO BE HELD AT O'Laughline Aud. October 17 lt 
*lt Looking for 3 min. stand-up comic acts lt* lt Call Janet at 283-4266 for more info. lt *ND ID REQUIRED * * * EVERYONE WELCOME* 
~CASH PRIZES AWARDED BY SAB, Campus Entertainment : 
ltvoTE FOR THE FUNNIEST PERSON ON CAMPUS * 
Get two free Cokes~ with
Two Free 

any pizza. One coupon per pizza. 
Cokes® 

Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 
Centrally planned economics myth says former Polish ambassador 
ByJANEL BLOUNT and how the production is to be ac­Rurarz recommends a one-year News Staff complished. plan despite the difficulty of obtain­If this original "picture" is poorly ing the previous year's results in 
Former Polish Ambassador to conceived, it can lead to an inef­time for the new scheme to be Im­Japan Zdzilaw Rurarz addressed the fective economy, as demonstrated plemented. theme "Centrally Planned Econom­in Poland and other Soviet-block na­Other flaws in centrally planned ics: Myth or Reality?" yesterday, and tions. Because these countries economics include inconsistent concluded that they are "far from sometimes tamper with production means of measuring productivity reality." statistics to improve these figures, and the laxness of workers. 
data instrumental to an objective "Labourers sometimes work below Business majors, interested lis­
image is often unreliable. potential and alternate ways of mea­teners, and students trying to keep 
suring productivity in hopes of en­warm, filled the Hayes-Healy 
Rurarz questioned the use of a couraging a less demanding plan," Auditorium to hear Rurarz, a profes­time horizon. He said the typical he said. 
sor ofeconomics, speak. five-year plan is too long because of The former Ambassador con­Through a variety ofexamples, he fluctuations in the weather. and har­cluded by saying that centrally demonstrated that centrally planned 
vest productivity. Because more planned economies "only exists on economics requires an objective 
time is needed to complete invest­paper." Ifthere is a centrally planned picture of the situation. This picture ments, it is also considered to be too economy operating today, it is un­must show what is to be produced short. responsive to the economy. 
Gromyko to test Reagan's sincerity 
By MARY HEILMANN According to Brinkley, the United with great platitudes is not enough StaffReporter States and the Soviet Union "have to convince them that Reagan will been acting on the calculation that be conciliatory. At this point in time 
President Reagan and Soviet they had more to gain by pursuing a they don't trust him, and his speech Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko hard line policy toward the arms at the UN didn't give them anything are scheduled to meet today to dis­race negotiations during the last concrete to refute that." cuss the nuclear arms race, but ac­three years. I think that both sides "It's not clear whether this is just a cording to Professor George have realized that the policies phony public relations gambit Brinkley of the Government and In­they've been following have not during election year, or If Reagan ternational Studies Department, the been beneficial, but coun­really wants to reach some sort of political ramifications of the terproductive, both economically agreement. The problem is that the meeting are much deeper. and strategically." Soviets don't know either." 
In an interview Wednesday, Brinkley adds that the meeting This, according to Brinkley, is "a Brinkley expressed keen interest in will provide Gromyko a chance to very serious situation, since it the meeting, not because he expects probe the sincerity of Reagan's new becomes difficult for them (the any significant agreements on con­conciliatory attitude toward the So­Soviets) to react to such flip flops of tinuing arms negotiations, but be­viet Union, demonstrated by his policy," an allusion to Reagan's cause both nations find themselves recent speech at the United Nations. former denouncement of the Soviet in a trial period during which new But, as Brinkley points out, "One Union as "the Evil Empire" in light of policy will be formed. speech at the UN that is just filled his apparent new attitude. 
,r................................................................................................1 US/Soviet talks have staHe<l 
I 
i 
during Reagan's presidency due in part, Brinkley feels, to miscalcula­tions by high officials from both countries concerning the state of af­

ND-SMC 
fairs in the opponent's camp. Reagan's advisors have propogated 

Council for the retarded 
needs volunteers 
the theory that the Soviet Union, os­

for tonight's Dance (7:30-10 p.m.) 
i 
tensibly weakened by internal eco­nomic and political problems, will eventually collapse Ifit tries to main­

and tomorrow (9/29) for a Farm Trip 
and Picnic (9 a.m.-2 p.m.) 
tain the current arms race. The Soviets, likewise, mistakenly believed that Reagan's tough stance

~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIII~=~~~:~:~~=~I:I~IIIIIIIIIIH-HIIIIIIIU.J 
on the arms issue would harm him politically, and that overwhelming opposition to nuclear missile deployments in Western Europe would force him to back down. 
"These old approaches have backfired on both nations, and the talk could decide what turn US/Soviet relations will take in the future," Brinkley says. 
Asked if he expects any viable ac­complishments at the end of the meeting, Brinkley cautioned against 

for reservations 
false optimism. 1
Lunch 11:00 a.m. to 2:30p.m. 
"There are very serious differ­1
Dinner 5:00p.m. 
,
ences between the US and the USSRClosed ,.....""'""" 

that are not going to go away. We couldn't scare them away; neither )can we be too nice, because they have a commitment to move ahead ~ every time they see the chance." 
Interested in studying in 
1
"Communist ideology is like a re­

I
ligion to the people in power. The

CUERNAV ACA, MEXICO? 
problem with is is that it gives them the wrong image of the world.

Come to Bu IIa Shed 
There's no way that they can trust us 
as long as their faith is on the basis that we are the enemy." Democratic Presidential can­didate Walter Mondale has already 

Saturday, September 29, 9:00p.m. 
PROGRAM IN GLOBAL COMMUNITY 
met with Gromyko. 
Alumni 

DON'T PASS THIS UP continuedfrom page 1 
Special ND Student Discount 
former dean of students, last spring, 

* 
$25 per month the new regulations are more gen­eral. Tyson says rectors should make these new regulations applicable to 

* 
$67.50 rest of semester 



*Portable or Console 
their own hall. Tyson futher claims that Rozum's 

COLOR CITY1V 
statements are not so much con­cerned with the alcohol policy as
RENTALS 
they are with the "good order ofthe 

259-7661 13398 McKinley Highway 
residence hall, togetherness, and living In close quarters." 
The Observer 

United Mine Workers vote brings first strike-free contract in 20 years 
Associated Press security guarantees and modest "The membership drew the line 
wage gains was being approved by a in the sand ... and they said no back­
WASHINGTON· In balloting that better than 5-to-1 margin, union ward steps," the UMW leader said. gives the soft coal industry its first President Richard Trumka said. "The UMW once again demon­strike-free contract settlement in Trumka said that while "not all lo­strated truly that they are the shock two decades, members ofthe United cals have reported," union officers troops of the labor movement." Mine Workers voted overwhelm­overseeing the counting of ballots At a news conference, Trumka ingly yesterday to accept a new 40-had assured him that rejection ofthe sought to assure his union's close to month pact, the union announced. pact was mathematically impossible. 50,000 laid-off members that "we're 
With 484 -well over SO percent -The contract was being ratified by a going to continue to push on all of the UMW's locals reporting, the vote of 56,057 in favor to 10,083 fronts to get members back to contract containing improved job against, Trumka said. work." 
Hotline nabs federal embezzlers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A two-star Army general knew a hot investment op­portunity when he saw it: anticipat­ing a housing shortage when his troop strength was increased, he bought an interest in a hotel near the base he commanded. 
A social Security field supervisor not only attended college on gov­ernment time but got taxpayer­financed help with his homework, forcing subordinates to type his term papers during working hours. 
A man who claimed he couldn't walk without crutches was drawing a full disability pensionfrom the Vet­erans Administration. At the same time, he was operating -without his crutches -a commercial fishing boat in Texas. 
The general, after Army lawyers declared a conflict of interest, took an early retirement. The field super­visor was demoted a Civil Service pay grade. And the fisherman was or­dered to repay $55,000 to the VA. 
Each of them, along with hundreds of other government workers, · contractors and benefit reCiptents, was fingered by whistleblowers who called the Gen­eral Accounting Office's toll-free 

r 
"fraud hot line." 
The GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, says in a new report that 53,000 calls alleging fraud, waste and abuse were received in the first five years after the hotline was estab­lished inJanuary 1979. 
After initial screening, more than 10,600 of the mostly anonymous tips were relayed to the appropriate agencies, where about 1,100 of the complaints were substantiated, the GAO said. 
"We estimate the hot line referrals 
Civil rights bill tied up in Senate 
Assodated Press 

r 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., a co-sponsor of

r 
the civil rights bill, said "the issue is discrimination," not whether gov­ernment agencies might be techni­cally without money for a short time.

r 
Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., an­

r 
other co-sponsor, said, "This vote is going to be the test vote on civil rights for this Congress ... let every­one know how they are going to be judged." 
Conservatives, led by Sen. Orrin 
G. Hatch, R-Utah, argued that instead of reaffirming existing law, backers of the civil rights measure want to expand the law. 
The amendment is aimed at reaf­firming federal anti-discrimination statutes and forcing recipients of federal money to obey laws protect­ing women, the aged, the handi­capped and minorities -even if the funds only reach one portion of an institution. 
It was prompted by a 6-3 Supreme Court ruling last Feb. 28 stating that law banning sex discrimination at colleges receiving federal aid only applied to the specific program re­ceiving the money. 

have identified about $20 million in to four agencies -the Social Security misspent federal funds and have Administration, the Defense Depart­projected savings of another $24 ment, the Internal Revenue Service million," the report said. and the Department of Health and 
The savings apply to only 20 per­Human Services. cent of the substantiated cases be­The GAO refers complaints to the cause the GAO and the agencies inspector general of the affected were unable to make similar es­agency. Some agencies, including timates for the rest of the proven HHS and the Pentagon, also have complaints. their own waste, fraud and abuse hot 
The GAO said the total cost of lines. operating the 24-hour service, Sen. James Sasser, D-Tenn., who which offers confidentiality to cal­conceived the hot line, said proudly lers, was S3.4 million during the first that the device had proven to be a five years. "valuable tool" and "has been more 
Penalties imposed as a result of successful than anyone thought hot line calls include jail sentences, when it was launched." In a state­fines, loss of government contracts, ment, he invited whistleblowers to demotions and reprimands. call the GAO at 1-800-424-5454. In 
More than half the allegations Washington, D.C., the number is received by the GAO were referred 633-6987. 


UnitedAuto Workerspresident Owen Bieber, right, along with vicepresident Don Epblin discuss some ofthe concerns expressed by the members ofthe General Motors coucnil meeting in St. Louis. The council, comprised ofunion officialsfrom across the country voted to accept the contract between General Motors and the union. 
L---------------------------------------------------------------------~~~--~--------­
,.-..---~·------------~-------~ 

View~_o_i_n__t________
F_rid-ay_,s_ep-tem_b_er-28_,1-98-4_pa-ge-7 
Notre Dame women 
deserve equality 
This week's series of articles on sex discrimination answered some ques­
tions about the current role of women on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
campuses. But it has raised even more questions. 
It is time to look at the calendar and realize that now, well into the 1980s, is 
the time to accept women as they are -equals in intellect and ability. It is time 
for the narrow-minded attitudes ofthe past to go the way ofthe dinasour.lt is 
time to stop considering women as a "pretty addition" to the University, but 
rather a positive and worthwhile expansion to a community dedicated to the 
advancement of the spiritual, moral and intellectual ideals of its members. 
It's time to look at ways to improve the current situation -to make a sincere 
effort to change the unhealthy attitudes that now exist. Such advancements 
should include: 

•An 
admissions policy that is devoted to a more realistic ratio between men ami women. Ideally, each application should be considered according to the applicant's abilities to succeed at Notre Dame and should not even consider the applicant's sex. lbis would presume that the breakdown of students ac­cepted to the University would be equal to the percentage of applicants of each sex. And the number of women at Saint Mary's should have no bearing on how many women are admitted to Notre Dame. 

•Making 
a positive commitment to equating the ratios between men and women, either by building new dormitories or giving some men's dor­mitories to women. 

•Advancing 
women within the academic departments on a non­discriminatory basis. Academic tenure should be granted according to ability rather than on sex, age or religious beliefs. 

•Ridding 
ourselves of the unfair policy that requires men to subscribe to the laundry service. This reverse discriminatory procedure violates the idea that all students are equal in intellect and ability. It is insulting that the ad­minstration feels men are unable to do their own laundry. Men should be provided with washing facilities within the dormitory, just as women are. And the laundry service should made optional to everybody. The concept that now guides this policy is born out ofold-fashioned sexism that has no place in a progressive university. 

•An 
option of coeducational residence life should be implemented. Many of the immature and unhealthy attitudes that exist between the two sexes at Notre Dame result from the cloistered atmosphere of current resident life and the separation of the sexes by dormitories. Men and women would be more able ro deal with the opposite sex if they are able to live in the same community. By offering the option ofcoeducational dormitories, perhaps the herd mentality that currently permeates the social atmosphere here would be eliminated as men and women would learn to live and grow together under the same roof. 'Ibe flat rejection ofthis issue that has been a hallmark of tht· University since women were first admitted is close-minded and outdated. 


Great strides have been made since women were first admitted to Notre Dame in 1972, but we still have a long way to go. lbe community's male population, which includes students, faculty and administrators, still has not totally accepted women as its equals -both in and out ofthe classroom. The change was radical, and attitudes evolve slowly, but 13 years should have been enough time to adjust totally and to realize that it was a change for the better. 
The Observer 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to the columns, articles and illustrations printed Ibis newspaper, but through 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address issues which have not been raised to your satisfaction In Ibis newspaper. Viewpoint encourages all of Its readers to fully expore and voice their opinions. Simply sendyour letter toP. 0. Box Q or deliever It to our office. Letters should be no longer tban 150 words In length and guest columns should not exceed 600 words. All works must be signed. 

Ukrainian Catholics deserve their identity 
I see where the Holy Father urged his Uk­rainian Catholic audience in Canada to cling to their religious heritage and to act as a 
John F. Michalski 
guest column 
bridge between the Catholic and Orthodox 
churches. 

Well, that's just fine. His words are very nice 
and sincere, and I'm sure the Ukrainian Cat­
holics ofWinnipeg found them inspiring. But I 
would suggest that those fine words be 
backed up with a little action, with change, 
which we Ukrainian (and other Eastern Rite) 
Catholics would find a bit more helpful. 
The problem is very old, as old as the so­
callled "Uniate" movement which began in 
the late 16th century, and which saw com­
munities of oriental Christians from Eastern 
Europe, the Middle East, and even India 
reunite with Rome. 

lbe agreement was that these new Eastern Catholic Churches would swear llegiance al­legiance to the Pope and accept all Catholic doctrines (there have been few differences in belief anyway), but would maintain their own relgious heritage, their own liturgies, spiritualities, and church structures. And this was as it should be. Under no circumstances should it be thought that in order to be a good Catholic one must be a good Western European, or worship as such. We Byzantines have a religious heritage even older than the West's, and every bit as rich. 
It was also thought that this movement would be beneficial for the Church as well. By embracing many different cultures and religi­ous rites she would at last warrant the name "Catholic." And the Eastern Rite Catholics were also considered a potentially valuable means ofending the Great Schism of 1054, by showing the Orthodox that they could reunite with Rome and still remain eastern. 
But things haven't quite turned out that way, mostly because ofapprehensive policies of the Latin Rite power structure of the Church, which causes the Orthodox ro say to 
us "I told you so", drives some of our people 
out ofthe Church, and causes others to defect 
to the Latin Rite. 
This policy, though condemned officially, Is still institutionalized in the Vatican, which is largely controlled by rigid, legalistic and bigoted Latin Rite clerics. They have never really accepted the idea that one could be Catholic and yet be so "different." So over the centuries they have tried to make us tow the Latin line, and undermined our autonomy. They forbade the recently deceased leader of the Ukrainians from taking his rightful title of Patriarch of the Urkainians Catholic Church. 'lbey have until this century encouragt•d the Jesuits and others in effort to get the Eastern Catholic people to join the Latin Rite. 
And in this country our parishes have been 
shut down, our married priests been 
prevented from exercising their office, our 
children rebaptized, and our traditions gener· 
ally disparaged or condemned, all under the 
approving eye of many of the Americian bis­
hops and the Vatican Curia. 
And the Latin rite Catholic people have not been much better. lbe attitude of many of them can best be summed up in the reaction of my little cousin after I took her to her first Ukrainian Divine Liturgy, "John, its all very nice, but why don't you want to be a normal Catholic." Now what are we supposed to do with attitudes like that? 
What do I suggest? Well, since bigotry is rooted in ignorance, I would suggest that all of you who take your faith seriously find out about the Ea'>tern rite. Read books, and arti­cles on this branch of the Church. Encourage the theology department to bring in speakers and have workshops. Let's have an Eastern Rite Churches day (all Catholic colleges are supposed to have one, by Church law). Any maybe go to a Litury at one ofthe two Eastern Catholic churches in town, St. Michael's Uk­rainian and St. John of Damascus' Melkite. It will count as your Sunday obligation and, who knows, you might even like it. 
But please, give us a break. We've been second-class citizens in our own Church for long enough. 
john F. Michalski is a student in the law school at Notre Dame. 

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor·m·Chlef. ... Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager .. Dave Taiclet Managmq fdttor Mark Wnrc;r;hPh Controller. . Maripat Horne The Observer is the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the News Edttor . . . Sarah Hamilton Adverttstng Manager . . Anne Culligan Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessar~ly News Editor Dan McCullnugh Ctrculalton Manager 
.. Jeff O'Neill reflect the pol1c1es of the admmistrat1on of e1ther mst1tut10n. The news is reported as Satnt Mary's Edttor . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager . .. . Kevin Williams accurately and as ObJeCtively as poSSible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opmion Sports Edttor M1chael Sullivan of a maJOrity of the Ed1tor1al Board. Commentar~es. letters and the Jns1de Column Vtewpomt Edttor . Dave Grote present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Features Edttor. Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966 

comrnun1ty. and the free expressiOn of varymy op1n1ons on campus. through leiters. Photo Editor. Pete Laches IS encouraged 
! 
View~_O_l_·_n_t_________
F_rid-ay_,s_ep-te-mb-er_2_8,-19-84-p-ag_es_ 
A rearguard effort to reimpose discipline 
We are watching a fascinating phenomenon in this election. Its most obvious sign is the presence oforganized hecklers wherever Fer-· raro or Mondalc:_speaks. They also showed up 
Garry Wills 

outrider 
for Mario Cuomo's speech at Notre Dame. Their principal issue is abortion, and they act as if the candidates of the party now out of office were threatening to change the law rather than keep it they way it is. 
On the face ofit, this is odd. The protesters themselves want to change the law. They want to make abortion illegal once more. They are protesting against the status quo. Then why do they not protest the incum­bents' appearances? These people have been in office, and they have not changed the law.
' 
,r Ronald Reagan put the "social issues" low on his agenda and has done no real politicking to ,.r­change the law on abortion. Things he cares about -his economic pro­
r 
gram, his Central America program, his
r 
defense budget -he has brought before
r 
r Congress with a combination ofmany kinds of pressure. He has gone on television to reach the legislators' constituents with a specific plea. He has done none of these things for abor­tion, or school prayer, or the limiting of con­traceptive use among the young. On these matters, he has given a rousing reference or two before select audiences, and let it go at that. 

Of course, he might say Congress would just block his efforts if he took these matters before it. But the Democratic House ofRepre­sentatives has tried to block him on other mat­ters, and he fought it. The difference with the social issues is that there is a large majority opposed to outlawing abortion, or returning prayer to the schools. And parts of that majority are as intense as the minority that favors a return to the prior situation. 
Well, why doesn't the Great Communicator communicate? Educate? Get on television and make a strong speech on just why abortion is evil? He contents himselfwith saying we must protect life, and we must not presume there is no human life in a fetus. For all that, Reagan's own wife recently said she did not know whe­ther she would have had an abortion if raped, and Reagan's own vice president has said he thinks raped women !;hould have a right to an abortion -neither of which position would 
Sullivan's performance not up to par 
DearEditor: 

Of the approximately 7500 undergraduates here at Notre Dame it is almost unconceivable that you cannot find just one to fulfill the posi­tion of sports editor. Judging from recent events, it would appear that Mike Sullivan should at best have the title: pseudo-sports editor. One would assume, a priori, that by ac­quiring this position Sullivan has had some knowledge ofthe sports world. Ofcourse, we all know what happens when one assumes. This is obviously the case concerning Sullivan and his Peerless Prognostications. One must question why "a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor" should have a better overall record than the sports editor himselfor anyone on his staff. In addition, one has to ask is Sullivan really just an Arts and Letters major trying to sweeten his resume by claiming to hold this job, or is he just doing a horrendous job attempting to be a sports jour­nalist. 
The record indicates that this past weekend Sullivan was only able to predict four out of fourteen ofthe contests correctly and the pre­vious weekend he was equally as dismal choosing only four out of thirteen. What this points to after three weeks of the football season is a sub-par 14 to 25 record for a win· ning percentage of .358. More importantly this shows a very shallow understanding of what it is Sullivan is actually calling himself. Furthermore, The Obseroer appears to being satisfy the purists who demonstrate against Mondale or Ferraro. If the Great Com­municator cannot communicate his ideas to his wife or his running mate, what chance has he with the nation? 
Still, why do these demonstrators not protest against those who have power, and are not using it, rather than against those who have little chance, on the showing ofthe pres­ent polls, o(gaining power? 
If you look at the real sources of their in­dignation, I think you will find that they object ofthe Democrats not because their position is really very different from that of of the Republicans. Rather, they resent the Democrats for admitting to the facts -for not pretending that a return can be made to the old morality, that laws can force people to act on beliefs they do not hold, that a moral revo­lution can be undone with a touch ofgood old discipline. 
Even Ronald Reagan shows, by his actions, that he does not believe in those simplisms, either. The difference is that he pretends to at times. He endorses the feckless moral gesture, which is enough to placate the zealots. This is the religious equivalent ofhis refusing to sub­mit a balanced budget while calling for a balanced budget amendment to the Constitu­tion. It is saying with St. Augustine, "Lord make me fiscallly chaste, sometime -but not now." 
The zealots are right, of course, when they say religion has played a large role in the American public life. What we are seeing is not a return to that condition, or a continua­tion ofit, but a desperate last effort to remem­ber religion's supremacy in sexual matters. Issues of contraception, adultery law, censor­ship and abortion did not have to bring cler­gymen into electoral politics because their power was already so great in so many social channels. The politicians had to act to please the clergy and their constituents. 
What we have today is the breakdown of those prior controls, followed by a rearguard effort to reimpose discipline at a later stage of the social process, impinging on electoral politics itself. This is not only unconstitutional in spririt, it is a confession of failure on the part of the so-called Moral Majority. As Mario Cuomo said ofthe Pope's inability to persuade even Catholics to differ from the general pop­ulation in their attitude toward abortion: When you cannot discipline your own, you try to get the law to discipline them and everybody else. 
When you cannot get your own children to pray, you try to make the state do it. When you cannot get even Ronald Reagan to work against abortion, you punish Walter Mondale for saying it is politically hopeless to work aginst abortion. What we are witnessing is vel­leity as crusade. 
(C) 1984 UNWERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

The world must laugh together 
I have always been a good-humoured per­son. I enjoy cracking a joke and I certainly en-
Jurgen Brauer 

reasoned culture 
joy other people's jokes -the wittier, the· better. 
The hardest thing when travelling to.or set­tling in another country is not, as one might surmise, to learn that country's language (after all, that other country may be Britain or New Zealand for the American). No, the hard­est thing after one has mastered the host na­tion's tongue is to behave'correctly'. And since one usually visits another country on a friendly mission one importantfacet ofbehav­ing correctly is to laugh at the proper time. Just imagine the embarrassment: you, the stranger, foreigner, alien or better: not so strange, foreign, alien anymore, are chattering away with some of your native friends; sud­denly everyone bursts out with laughter! Ex­cept you -you just sit there and smile your 'laugh anyway' grin. You didn't catch the joke. You are the odd man out. 
mance within their ranks. I believe that Sul­livan should be given one week in order to improve his record to at least . 500. If this is not accomplished in this time period, then The Obseroer should consider more seriously its appointment of Sullivan to the position of sports editor. 
Francis W. Harris St. Edward's Hall 
The term Hoosier 
Dear Editor: 

llke John Mennell ("Inside Wednesday," Sept. 19), I have sometimes been curious about the origin of the term Hoosier. Unfor­tunately my wild surmise that back in the old days some Yankee frontiersman probably responded "Whosieur?" to some French trap­per's "Monsieur" has found no corroboration! 
Helen P. Delaney South Bend 
ND alumnus saw both ends of spectrum 
DearEditor: 

I am one alumnus who questioned the wis­dom of last spring's alcohol edict ... until I at· tended a couple off-campus parties this past weekend. 
Two students vividly represented both ends of the spectrum. The first was a drunlten jackasswho walked by my car at Campus View and ripped off my electric rear view mirror. The other drank water at a party, can you believe it (I couldn't) because he was driving 
Then, also,you try to land a joke: chuckling, you tell your story and what happens? No one laughs! Nobody understood your joke and be­cause it wasn't a joke to begin with; and be­cause you're just an idiot laughing about his own uttering ofwords -or so you feel. 
As is easy to imagine, not beingable to laugh with others and not being able to get others to laugh with you makes one wonder. And it can make one insecure; insecure because you just aren't able to socialize correctly. As a conse­quence you begin to settle for serious talk where no laughter is needed -indeed where laughter would seem inappropriate. But since you don't know_ what it is in your words that causes natives to laugh or not to laugh you may inadvertently say something very funny in the middle of a supposedly dead-serious conversation. In other words, you may be able to control your words but not their effects. And not being able to control the effects of your efforts makes you feel like a baby. 
Not being able to laugh is inhuman. To have to feel like a baby is dehumanizing. On top of this: your hosts will be most unlikely to help you out! Which is the reason why foreigners tend to band together when abroad. (And that is not a good idea, by the way.) 
Don't get me wrong. I've cracked many 
tifications for and against the alcohol debate. 
It bothers me that I'll spend a couple hundred dollars to repair my car, but that's not the point. I probably would have bought that guy a drink or two ifwe had met earlier at a bar. Instead, his acts give the University its justification. 
I've always advocated respect for students by treating them as responsible rather than as­suming otherwise. I make time to see every student who visits my Washington office, and I go out ofmy way to help any Domer. So to all you students who occasionally drink water at parties ... thanks for giving me examples to strengthen my argument. 
Gary]. Caruso ND Class of'73 
Faust the coach and Faust the man 
DearEditor: 

This may or may not be Gerry Faust's year of redemption. The setting is right: three pro­gressive years learning a higher level of foot­ball and a team totally recruited by him. But these speculations are for others. Time, as al­ways, will be final judge of his football ex­pertise. Mine is an account ofFaust, the man. 
Gerry Faust as a professional motivator is held accountable -even in hisfree time -to the words he preaches. Let me tell you what I ex­perienced and see ifhe measures up. 
Two years ago I approached Faust at a sports stag on behalfofa friend of mine, Craig Leaver. Craig had been totally paralyzed in an auto accident and needed inspiration. We both had played against Faust's high school 
jokes since being here and people did laugh 
and also I've laughed a lot about other 
people's jokes-but, deep down, the very best 
of my jokes seldom make it across that cul­
tural boundary. And that is true vice versa, I 
suppose: take, for instance, that FarSide rage. I 
Understand that almost every American on 
campus almost always thinks that Larson's car­
toons are just great fun. As for me, I almost 
never laugh about Far Side cartoons. Indeed, 
the most far offidea to have, it seems to me, is 
to clip one of those cartoons out of the 
Obseroer and to patch it on one's office or 
dorm door! 
To summarize: I, being in America, don't laugh about your jokes and you don't about mine; you, being in another country, don't laugh about their jokes and they don't laugh about yours. That brings us to a dilemma: When Mondale and Reagan get to meet Gromyko I bet you you'll see them laughing simultaneously but they won't laugh together. Ponder this: our world cannot become a peaceful one if we don't learn to truly laugh together. 
jurgen Brauer is an economics graduate student and is a regular contributing View­point columnist. 
Did he reply? We were invited to Notre Dame as his personal guests for the Michigan State game. He also gave us a tour of the campus on his one weekly night reserved for his family. Spotting us in the wheelchair sec­tion at the game, he came over and shook our hands and greeted all the other handicapped persons individually. He continues to com­municate and asked us back this season for the Colorado game. 
I since learned this behavior by Faust is more the norm than the exception. 
He had nothing to gain by helping us. We were just t:Wo more strangers tapping into his already drum-tight schedule. But he took the time. For no greater reason than helping someone in a truly tough spot. 
The Emperor Napoleon said. "All the scholastic scaffolding falls as a ruined edifice before one single word: faith." Faith is what Faust oozed in our brief times with him. Faith in God and in his own abilities. Faith -through a strong sense of spiritual confidence · in the positive. Notre Dame's football team, espe­cially upper-classmen, will play with confi­dent abandon only when the players' and coaches' faith in Faust is total. 
Is Gerry Faust worth believing in? Take it from a couple of nobodies. Faust the coach and Faust the man are one in the same. He is real. And his intent is to maintain a strong win­ning tradition by demanding excellence. If Faust's substance of character will tip the 
scales, then faith  in Notre Dame's football  
future is at hand.  
Mike Gallagher  
joe Reinert  
Cincinnati, Obio  





page 9 a sports supplement , -September 28,1984 
Improving Irish hit road to take on Missouri 
ND defense should have hands full with high-powered Tiger offense on national TV 

George Shorthose UM flanker 
By lliERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
Even though the Notre Dame football team looked like gangbusters in its rout of Colorado, the real tests for the Irish come in the next two weeks against Missouri and Miami. 
'lbe Tigers are a curious team. Curious in that they manage to upset national powerhouses one game and lose the next to the walkover opponents to whom they have no business losing. 
Does that sound familiar? No wonder, because, recently, Notre Dame and Missouri have been labeled by some as the "mystery teams" ofcollege football. 
Let's go back to the year 1976. A less than consistent Missouri team pounded Southern Cal at Los Angeles, beat Nebraska at Uncoln, and edged Ohio State at Columbus. Each ofthose teams finished the season with a top-ten ranking. On the other hand, home was no place like home for the Tigers, as they lost to then­hapless Illinois, Iowa State and Kansas en route to a 6-5 season record. 
In 1978, current head coach Warren Powers' initial campaign, the Tigers knocked off then-defending national champion Notre Dame in the first game ofthe season. The Irish fumbled and stumbled their way to a 3-0 defeat at the hands of Mizzou in that last meeting of the two teams. Also in that year, Missouri again upset the Cornhuskers, but fell to Oklahoma State and Colorado. 
Last season the Tigers finally exhibited the home-field advantage at Faurot Field. A loss to the Tigers in 
Columbia was the only regular-season blemish for Big-Ten champion IUinois. Big-Eight opponent Okla­homa also fell victim to Missouri for the second-straight time on the Tigers' home turf. But road losses to Wisconsin and Kansas spoiled hopes of a stellar season. 
The evidence definitely shows that Missouri can knock off the favored teams. But is Mizzou's giant-killer reputation overstated? Do Tiger fans expect btg upsets from their team? 
"This is a big week in Columbia," says Powers. "Notre Dame has a great reputation. It's like when we play Oklahoma or Nebraska. We have a sellout for this game and not for any other game this season." 
Don't let anyone tell you that the Tigers will not be up 
for this game. Their record may be 1-2, but Irish head 
coach Gerry is right when he describes them as "the 
best 1-2 team in the country." Missouri has three top-ten 
teams remaining on its schedule in Nebraska, Oklahoma 
Tacklebuster 
Mark Brooks leads way through hole 
By JERRY MELIA 
Sports Wrl ter 

Many things went right for the Irish football team last weekend at Notre Dame Stadium as It routed the Buffaloes of Colorado, 55-14. Although Colorado is not considered a national power, the win gave the team some much-needed confidence as players In Important positions performed well. 
Thl" Irish running game was particularly potent as it racked up 21 2 yards. For Notre Dame to be a national contender and to have a successful season Its running game has to be at least as efficient as It was last weekend. 
Mark Brooks should play an Important role in this success as he has been an Integral part of the Irish backfield for the past three years. 
Brooks came to Notre Dame in 1981 from Moeller High School in Cincinnati where he holds records for career rushing yards, career poims, longest scoring run and single-game rushing yardage. These achieve­ments on the field helped his team to undefeated seasons in both his junior and senior years. 
The explosive fullback was a two-time all-state pick and was named Ohio player of the year during his final season. His efforts also earned him consensus prep all-American honors after being mentioned in many popular publications. 
"I had great expectations coming to Notre Dame," 
says Brooks, "because of the quality of the school and 
the caliber of the football program." 
When his college career first began, it seemed that the adjustment to the college system would be rather easy since his high school coach, Gerry Faust, took over the head coaching duties at Notre Dame the same year Brooks enrolled at the University. Although this 6-3, 228-pound senior admitted that it was easier to adapt to the system designed by Faust, he pointed out that the coach showed no fuvoritism to his Moeller graduates. "It became more difficult when the system was changed the following year", says Brooks. "It was like I was starting all over again." 
During his freshman season, the communications major participated in all but two games. He tallied 126 yards on 24 carries and pulled in three receptions for 20 yards for the season. The highlight ofhis 1981 campaign was a 12-yard touchdown run in the final minutes against Air Force. His talents obviously did not go unrecognized by the coaching staff as he saw more playing time on offense than any other freshman exceptjoe Howard. 
The Cincinnati native saw action in every game during his sophomore year. He earned his first start against Arizona when Larry Moriarty was Incapable of 
see BROOKS, page 11 
and Oklahoma State -and people in Columbia are not counting on their team to finish 1984 with six losses. lbat means one of the "big" teams, a list which includes Notre Dame, will undoubtedly fall. 
Missouri's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: 
Powers has had quite a dilemma at quarterback so fur this season. No, it is not a shortage of talent, but rather an overabundance of it. junior Marlon Adler was the seventh-ranked passer in the nation last year, according to NCAA tabulations, but emerged from spring practice as Lhe Tigers' second-string quarterback. Adler has since regained his starting position from fellow junior Warren Seitz. 
Between them, Adler and Seitz have thrown for over 700 yards and sport a 60-percent completion rate. Adler, at 6-0, 186 pounds, has a fine throwing arm and is the more experienced of the two. Seitz, on the other hand, is a menacing 6-4, 220 pounds, and adds more ofa running threat to the Mizzou offense. Seitz and Adler have combined to rush for 169 yards in three games. 
lbe Tigers possess a multi-dimensioned offense which uses the play-action pass, quarterback rollout and option to perfection. Missouri has been no slouch at 
see MIZZOU, page 11 




MISSOURI September 28, 1984-page 10
lnsb Extra 


Worrying the Pas 
Pass rush is key to defense and Mike Gann once 
ByLARRYBURKE  coming along. We're not just sticking with that,  as effective. That is a key in a  
Sports Writer  though ­ we're coming in, like we came in to get  situation."  i  
some pass rush against Colorado. We put in our  The Missouri Tigers have '  
While the Notre Dame defense is just beginning  nickel defense, which rushes four down lineman,  junior quarterback Marlon A  
to establish itself this season after turning in its first  and that seemed to help us a lot on passing down  has connected on 28 of 44 p.1  

Mizzou's double-threat QB combination 
Warren Seitz 6-4, 220 pounds, Junior 
Passing 
33 attempts, 18 completions, 313 yards .545 percentage 1 interception, 2 touchclowns 
Rushing 
30 carries, 118 yards, 3.9 yards per carry 3 touchdowns, longest carry -50 yards (touchdown) 
Total Offense 
431 yards, 143.7 yards pe~r game 
Marlen Adler 6-0, 186 pounds, Junior 
Passing 
44 attempts, 28 completions, 41 0 yards .636 percentage 2 interceptions, 3 touchdowns 
Receiving 
1 catch, 31 yards 
Rushing 

24 carries, 51 yards, 2.1 yards per carry 0 touchdowns, longest carry -18 yards 
Punting 

14 punts, 584 yards, 41.7 yards per punt 
consistent game-long performance of the season, a few players have been turning in outstanding individual performances all season long. One of these players is defensive tackle Mike Gann, Notre Dame's veteran on the defensive line. 
Gann, along with the rest of the Fighting Irish, has been improving steadily this season. The senior left tackle has been leading the resurgence of Notre Dame's "Gold Rush" by posting four sacks in three games thus far, dropping opposing quarterbacks for a net total loss of 57 yards. Gann, who also has 14 situations. 
"Overall, I like the 3-4. It's given us good coverage in the backfield, and we've needed to improve on that, along with our pass rush. Mixing it up, I think, is the key. Coach Christoffis a great defensive coordinator. He knows how to mix the game up. When we started the season against Purdue, we ran a lot of 3-4, but had some problems with the pass rush and in the defensive backfield. The defense really let the team down that day, but since then we've gotten back on track with the season for 41 0 yards and thr~ Gann is concerned about m<l 
"Adler is a swift quarterba to the outside real quick ­we've faced so far this year,; quickest we'll face all year. S key to this week's game." 
Protecting Adler will be a rivals Notre Dame's in size, s will have to rise to the occas mount a substantial pass rusl, 
tackles to his credit, believes that the Irish are just beginning to shift into high gear. 
"We're trying to build our season on momen­tum," says Gann. "For the past couple years we've started out on track We started out my sophomore year ('82 season) by ~inning our first four games, and we had some momentum going, but then it kind ofdropped. What we've done to improve ourselves this seasonis go back to basics -come off the ball, shoot out, and stay low. We started out against Purdue and we wanted to razzle-dazzle them with a few stunts on defense, but then we just decided to get back to basics, and found ourselves in the second half ofthe Michigan State game." 
The Irish trailed 17-3 at halftime against the Spartans, but came roaring out ofthe lockerroom in the second halfto dominate the Spartans and win, 24-20. The defense played a big part in that victory, and Gann cited some key halftime adjustments as the reason for Notre Dame's recovery. 
"When we went in at halftime, we were still confident that we could win the ballgame," says Gann. "We got on the chalkboards with the coaches and saw what Michigan State's weaknesses were. That's something that's very important at halftime ­to get on the chalkboard and figure out what the weaknesses are and capitalize on those weaknesses. That's exactly what we did in the Michigan State game." 
Halftime has not been the only time that the Notre Dame defense has had to make adjustments this year. With the arrival of new defensive coordin­ator Andy Christoff last spring came a new defen­sive alignment for the Irish. Christoff has decided to go to the 3-4 defensive system, as opposed to the 4-3 alignment employed by Notre Dame last season. 
"The 3-4 puts a little more pressure on the defensive line, as far as getting a pass rush," explains Gann. "The offensive line is able to double-team all three defensive linemen ifthey do it right. We've had some key injuries to the outside linebackers, with Mike Golic getting hurt the first game against Purdue (and Mike Larkin going down in the preseason), so we've had to make some adjust­ments there. But the 3-4 is working out nice, it's 
, , • > • / ~. ~ • ~: " 

3-4." 
Gann is getting himselfon track, too. Having 
accounted for four ofthe team's seven sacks 
himself, he is on the way to his best season ever. He 
cites his improved quickness as one reason for his 
improved play this year. "I ran more than I usually 
have in the summertime," says Gann. "With the way 
football is now, speed is the main thing you need 
for the pass rush. Offensive tackles range from 260 
to 300 pounds these days, and you've just got to 
work on your speed to get around them. The 
philosophy of the pass rush has changed. It used to 
be that you'd try to bowl over an offensive lineman 
to get to the passer, now the philosophy has moved 
more towards speed and getting around the 
outside." 
In addition to his quarterback sacks, Gann has registered a high number oftackles, more than many of the linebackers and defensive backs. He attributes this to the changing philosophy on the defensive line. "Things have changed," says Gann. "With our new (defensive line) coach, Coach Lantz, the philosophy of the defensive line play has changed. Last year and the year before was a different philosophy-hold up the offensive linemen and plug up the holes, so that everyone can converge in on the play, mainly the linebackers. This year it has changed a little. When Coach Lantz came in, he wanted us to get offthe ball, so penetra­tion is the k~y to this year's defensive line play. It's changed the style ofour defense considerably." 
With the depth that the Irish have on the defen­sive front this season, Gann has the luxury ofnot having to overextend himself. The Irish have Mike Griffin and Eric Dorsey at the nose tackle spot, and Wally Kleine, Greg Dingens and Tom Rehder at the tackles. A shoulder injury will keep Dingens out of the Missouri game, but otherwise the Irish will be at full strength across the defensive front, enabling everyone to stay fl:esh. 
"I think it's great for us (to be so deep)," says Gann. "It's an asset for a defensive line to have five or six defensive linemen that can play. We have great depth on the defensive line, and when I get tired, I know that the person coming in will be just 
I \ \ ' 1 • I • 
going to be the best offensiv·i 

Pr 
1970 

NO 24, Mizzo 
MISSOURI 

lnsb-Extra 

er 
again leads the charge 
proficient passer in . A walk-on, Adler (64 percent) this touchdowns. But than Adler's passing. "ht· says. "Ue gets r than anyone probably the 'containment is the 
Gann and company m if they are to . "They're definitely lint• we've faced so far 
Injury. Brooks played in all 
started against ose friend Chris ankle injury. He wao.; 
of his excellent 1~. lie also played against Colorado touchdown run, and Boston College 
c myself a~ a leader performance on the >rtant. When 
this year," says Gann of the Tigers' front five. "I've seen them on film, and they come off the ball really well, they really shoot out. They have a good running attack, and it's going to be a difficult task for us. But I think we're up to the challenge. I'm positive it's going to be a brawl out there, it's not going to be one of those easy-going kind ofgames. '!bey (Missouri) are starting·to roll offensively, with momentum from last week's game (a 47-30 victory over Mississippi State). They scored a lot ofpoints la~t week, and we scored a lot ofpoints against Colorado, and we've got some momentum going, so I think it's going to be a kick-down, drag-out fight to the end." 
Gann, undoubtedly, will be in there fighting all the way to the finish. 
• • • Brooks 
A .2-I record at this point of the season is not as good a~ he had hoped, but he ha~ not given up hope for an excellent sea"on. He feels the main problem with the team thus far ha~ been the high number of turnovers which afflicted the Irish in their first game-and-a-half. "We can't afford to make mistakes against good teams because they will capitalize," he says. "Ifwe can cut down on these (mistakes) we can go a long way." 
The Irish running game is an important part of the futun· success of the team. lbere is a great deal ofcompetition in the backfield with certain members receiving a great deal ofpublicity. Brooks realizes his role a" a fullback at Notre Dame is primarily to block and to gain yardage in short situations. 
"I just try to do what is expected of me," he says. "If I do this, then I am satisfied." 
It's an attitude like this that makes Mark Brooks a much more valuable asset to the team than his statistics show. He helps the team more than just on the field, but off it as well. 
ious Meetings 
1972 1978 Mizzou 30, N D 26 Mizzou 3, ND 0 
continued from page 9 
racking up yardage on offense ( 475 yards per game, 
ranked fifth in the nation) or putting points on the 
scoreboard ( 3 5 points per game, ranked 12th). 
Talent and depth are the key words in the Tiger 
running and receiving spots. Sophomore tailbackJon 
Redd leads the Missouri ground game with I70 yards 
rushing and an average of 5.9 yards per carry. Fullback 
Eric Drain, a junior, led the Tigers in rushing last 
season and has totalled 136 yards so far. Both of them 
are speedsters who have the abilityto break open a 
long gainer. 
Providing depth in the backfield is last season's second-leading rusher Santio Barbosa. Barbosa, a junior fullback who rivals Irish defensive back Hiawatha Francisco for the most colorful name in college football, has been used only sparingly this year. In addition, freshman Darrell Wallace and junior Manny Henry are available at the tailback position. 
When the Tigers go to the air, which probably will 
be often, the main target for Adler and Seitz will be 
senior flanker George Shorthose. Shorthose led Mizzou 
with 32 receptions in 1983, and already has halfof that 
total in three games, including three catches for 
touchdowns. 
Senior Andy Hill is the Tiger deep threat, averaging 
22.6 yards per reception on eight catches. AdJ;ian McBride, a junior also with eight receptions, will miss the game because ofa knee injury. Tony Davis, with four grabs, is the Tiger tight end. 
Mizzou's running backs have essentially been left 
out of the passing attack in the first three games. But, 
taking into consideration the success Irish opponents 
have experienced through the air on the shorter 
routes, expect that to change on Saturday. 
The offensive line by no means lacks size, but some of the players have limited game experience. The veteran of the crew, which averages 6-3,271 pounds, is senior Phil Greenwood. Greenwood, who was named to the all-Big Eight academic first team last year, is the only returning starter for the Tigers on the line. 
The remaining four slots on the line include a pair of 
280-pound tackles. It seems the Irish will have finally 
met their match in terms ofsize on the offensive line. 
"Offensively, they are an excellent football team," says Faust. "The thing that impresses me the most about Missouri is the number ofskilled-position players they have." 
Defensively for Notre Dame, the secondary play was the best news in last week's victory over Colorado. The question remains whether the defensive backs can continue to surrender only a small amount ofpassing yardage against the more-talented passing attack of Missouri. 
The key to the improved pass defense has to be attributed, at least in part, to the increased pressure on the quarterback by the Irish linemen. Mike Gann leads the resurging line with four sacks. Tackle Greg Dingens is doubtful after suffering a slight shoulder separation in the Colorado game. 
The linebacking situation is looking a lot better for the Irish and should continue to improve. Mike Kovaleski and Mike Golic, neither of whom saw action la'it week, will play this week and Mike Larkin probably will be ready in time for Miami. Add this to the improved play of Robert Banks and the valuable contributions of Rick DiBernardo and things are looking much better than they did against Purdue. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Missouri's defense: 
Offensive coordinator Ron Hudson got the word from Faust to call more pa'is plays on first down, and, as a result, the Irish offense has become much more unpredictable than in the past. 
When your quarterback is on a hot streak as Steve Beuerlein is, throwing is even more imperative. The sophomore has completed 18 ofhis last 21 pa'ises, dating back to the second half against Michigan State. · Considering that the Missouri defense Is giving up an average of 250 yards per game through the air, Notre Dame may be trying to find excuses to throw the ball against the Tigers. 
Mark Bavaro continues to lead the Irish receiving corps with I 0 receptions. The recovery ofJoe Howard who should be back at full strength after being hobbled by a hamstring problem, should be big help, also. 
"They have a good sophomore quarterback in Beuerlein," Powers says. "He surely doesn't play like a sophomore. Also, Bavaro is one of the best tight ends I've seen." 
To counter the Notre Dame pa'>sing game, Missouri ha" only one returning starter in the secondary who will play against the Irish. Jerome Caver, a senior strong safety, is the leader among the defensive backs and will see his first action since an opening-game ankle injury. Caver was the third-leading tackler on last year's squad with 72 stops. He also had seven tackles 
September 28, 1984 · page 11 
• • • Mizzou 

for lost yardage, three quarterback sacks and two 
fumble recoveries. 
Two other returning starters are out for the game 
with injuries-seniors Terry Matichak at free safety and 
Jeff Hooper at cornerback. But, because depth was to 
be a major strength in the Missouri secondary, the 
backups are very capable players. 
Wallace Snowden, a senior, and Tony Facinelli, a 
junior, will get the call at the cornerback positions. 
Facinelli ha" two of Mizzou's three interceptions. 
Sophomore Anthony Frazier, slated to fill in at free 
safety, is the team's second-leading tackler with 19. 
"We are a struggling football team -especially on 
defense," comments Powers. "We have played 
sporadically, and the injuries at defensive end and in 
the secondary have really hurt us." 
Part ofthe reason the Tigers are having difficulty 
defending against the pa<is is that they lost both oftheir 
defensive ends to graduation. Juniors Lenson Staples 
and Eric Troy will try to make up for the loss ofover 
100 tackles and 13 stops for lost yardage. 
Missouri has average size on the defensive line, 
except for the ends, who are quite small. Troy, a 
converted running back, occupies one end spot 
although he is only 6-1, 202 pounds. Junior nose tackle 
Steve Leshe returns to his position and can clog up the 
middle quite well. 
Tracey Mack, a senior, is the leading tackler for the Tigers with 30 stops from his inside linebacker position. Mike Vestweber, a 6-2, 220-pound sopho­more, is questionable for Saturday's game after suffering a shoulder Injury in the Mississippi State game. 
The potential explosiveness of the Notre Dame 
running game concerns the Tiger head coach. "Their 
fullbacks (Mark Brooks and Chris Smith) are intimidat­
ing and Allen Pinkett and Alonzo Jefferson are very 
quick. They are the best backs we'll have faced all 
year." 
Alot will ride on the effectiveness of the Notre 
Dame line against Missouri's big, quick people up 
front. A continued mixing ofplays will help, but as 
Faust says, "In this game, the battle will be won in the 
trenches." 
The kicking game and specialty teams: 
The adage that specialty teams do win and lose 
football games was never better exemplified by two 
teams than it is when one compares Missouri and 
Notre Dame. 
Missouri had a 28-7 lead after three quarters against 
Wisconsin but saw it evaporate after two blocked 
punts set up two Badger touchdowns. 'Ibe Irish, in 
contrast, used the blocked punt to their advamage 
against Michigan State. 
Marlon Adler doubles as Mizzou's punter, a Ia Blair 
Kiel. Adler began his career as a walk-on punter and 
averages 41.7 yards per kick. 
Senior Brad Burditt handles the placekicking duties 
for the Tigers. Burditt has connected on three offive 
field goals and is I 0-1 l in extra-point conversions. 
Shorthose was Missouri's leading return man In 
1983 and continues to lead the Tigers in the kickoff 
return department with a 21.4-yard average. Mizzou 
has only managed four punt returns thus far this 
season. 
After the Irish weathered two games of"rt:turn 
bloopers," the specialty teams emerged from the 
Colorado game in fine fashion. The sure hands ofTroy 
Wilson have not dropped a punt return since he took 
over the returning duties. Notre Dame has also found 
that good field position can be the result oflong 
kickoff returns, when Francisco and Jefferson ac­
counted for returns of80 and 41 yards, respectively. 
Mike Viracola and John Carney have removed any 
doubts from Faust's mind that the kicking game wa'i 
going to be a problem this season. "lbe kicking game 
has been a pleasant surprise to me. We have had a vast 
improvement since the beginning of the sca'ion." 
The keys to the game: 
Again, the Notre Dame defense wlll meet a talented quarterback (in this case two ofthem), and will be faced with the challenge ofstopping the pa'is. The one big difference in this game Is that Missouri's offensive line matches up well a'i far as size is concerned. The Irish must put pressure on the Tiger quarterbacks, but also remember that they can scramble. 
There is no question that the Irish are capable of moving the football against Missouri, but Notre Dame's ability to avoid turnovers wlll be the key on offense, as it has been over the past six quarters. 
The task at hand for the Idsh defense is to control the line ofscrimmage and to not give up the big play. It sounds simple enough. 
A win or loss at Missouri could have a big impact on the outcome of the rest of Notre Dame's season. A win would give the team confidence against tougher opponents to come, but a loss could make this the beginning ofanother long season. 

MISSOURI September 28, 1984-page 12

lr1sb Extra 
NOTRE DAME VS. MISSOURI 
THE STATISTICS
THE GAME 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TD LG 
---------------------------------·---------------------­
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Missouri Tigers 
Mizzou 

TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 950 927 Pinkett 3 57 196 3.4 6 13 Total Plays 196 199 Jefferson 3 23 83 3.6 2 10 Yards per Play 4.8 4.7 Brooks 3 16 80 5.0 2 12 Yards per Game 316.7 309.0 Smith 3 10 34 3.4 0 11
SITE: Faurot Field ( 62,000) 
TIME: 2:50 EST; Saturday, Sept. 29, 1984 
PENALTIES-YARDS 15-96 16-151 Flemons 1 10 31 3.1 0 15 
1V-RADIO: ABC Sports National Telecast 
Stats 

FUMBLES-LOST 6-5 7-4 Monahan 3 2 17 8.5 0 10 
Keith Jackson, Frank Broyles, Tim Brant 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 61 53 Miller 2 1 13 13.0 0 13 By Rushing 32 21 DeHueck 1 3 11 3.7 0 6 ByPassing 26 29 Slams 3 1 5 5.0 0 5
TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
By Penalty 3 3 MachtoH 1 2 3 1.5 0 2
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 37-20 38-14 Carter 1 2 1 0.5 0 1 TEAM STATISTICS UM OPP Percentage .541 .368 Grooms 1 1 -12-12.0 0-12 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts, Pat Sheridan, Luther Bradley WNDU-AM 1500  
SERIES: lAST MEETING:  Missouri 2, Notre Dame 1 September 9, 1978 Missouri 3, Notre Dame 0  
RANKINGS: TICKETS:  (AP) Notre Dame 19th, Missouri unranked Game is sold out  

THE SCHEDULE 
NOTRE DAME MISSOURI 
TOIAL OFFENSE YARDS 1425 1256 Total Plays 235 210 Yards per Play 6.1 6.0 Yards per Game 475.0 418.7 PENALTIES-YARDS 14-104 14-121 FUMBLES-LOST 6-2 12-5 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 71 65 By Rushing 34 29 By Passing 33 34 By Penalty 4 2 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 39-17 38-16 Percentage .436 .421 POSSESSiON TIME 102:02 77:58 Minutes per Game 34:01 25:59 
RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 

Redd 3 29 170 5.9 0 57 Drain 3 36 136 3.8 4 12 Seitz 3 30 118 3.9 350 Boyd 2 18 66 3.6 1 9 Adler 3 24 51 2.1 0 18 Wallace 2 7 47 6.7 0 19 Henry 2 8 38 4.6 0 13 Moore 1 1 25 25.0 0 25 Barbosa 3 3 24 8.0 1 19 Hill 3 1 -1 -1.0 0 -1 
MISSOURI 3 157 671 4.3 9 57 OPPONENTS 3 110 506 4.6 7 57 POSSESSION TIME 86:46 93:14 Bauerlein 3 13 -26 -2.0 0 5 

Minutes per Game 28:55 31:05 --------------------------------------------------------­NOTRE DAME 3 141 436 3.1 10 15 OPPONENTS 3 129 359 2.8 3 23 
SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP G NO PCT INT YDS TD 
-------------------PASSING CO 
Pinkett 3 7 0-0 6-1 0 0-0 42 --------------------------------------------------------­Carney 3 011-11 0-0 0 2-2 17 Beuerlein 3 52 35 .673 4 497 3 Jackson 3 2 0-0 0-2 0 0-0 12 Grooms 1 3 2 .667 0 17 0 Brooks 3 2 0-0 2-0 0 0-0 12 Andrysiak 1 0 0 .000 0 0 0 
Jefferson 3 2 0-0 2-0 0 0-0 12 ----------------------------~~~~~--------~~~~------~~~~ Chura 0 1-1 0-0 0 1-1 4 ND 3 55 37 .673 4 514 3 VonWyl 0 1-1 0-0 0 0-0 1 OPP 3 70 42 .600 5 568 3 
NO 3 13 13-13 10-3 0 3-3100 DEFENSE TMTL·YDS PBU FR BK 
OPP 3 6 5-6 3-3 0 5-5 57 
Furjanic 38 0-0 1 0 0 Kovaleski 29 1-3 2 0 0 RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TD LG Johnson 21 0-0 1 0 0 
-------------------Banks 18 0-0 0 0 0 
Pinkett 3 57 196 3.4 6 13 Gann 14 4-57 0 1 0 Jefferson 3 23 83 3.6' 2 10 Griffin 13 1-4 0 0 1 Brooks 3 16 80 5.0 2 12 McCabe 13 o-o 0 0 0 Smith 3 10 34 3.4 0 11 Ball age 12 0-0 2 0 0 Flemons 1 10 31 3.1 0 15 Figaro 12 0-0 0 0 0 Monahan 3 2 17 8.5 0 10 Wilson 11 0-0 0 0 0 Miller 2 1 13 13.0 0 13 DiBernardo 10 0-0 2 0 0 DeHueck 1 3 11 3.7 0 6 Kleine 10 1-1 0 1 0 Slams 3 1 5 5.0 0 5 Dingens 9 2-12 0 1 0 Machtolf 1 2 3 1.5 0 2 Francisco 7 0-0 0 0 0 Carter 1 2 1 0.5 0 1 Butler 7 0-0 0 0 0 
-------------------
·Grooms 1 1 -12 -12.0 0-12 Bars 7 0-0 0 0 0 Bauerlein 3 13 -26 -2.0 0 5 Lawrence 6 0-0 1 1 0 Haywood 6 0-0 0 0 1 NOTRE DAME 3 141 436 3.1 10 15 Dorsey 5 0-0 1 0 0 OPPONENTS 3 129 359 2.8 3 23 Bobb 5 0-0 0 0 0 

-
a 
...
t 
SEPT. 8lost to Purdue, 23-21 SEPT. 15 def. Michigan St., 24­20 SEPT. 22 def. Colorado, 55-14 SEPT. 29 at Missouri OCT. 6M1AMI OCT. 13AIRFORCE OCT. 20 SOUTH CAROUNA OCT. 27 at L.S.U. NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands NOV. 17PENNSTATE NOV. 24 at Southern Cal SEPT. 8lost to Illinois, 30-24 SEPT. 15 lost to Wisconsin, 35­34 SEPT. 22 def. Miss. State, 47-30 SEPT. 29 NOTRE DAME OCT. 6 COLORADO OCT. 13 at Nebraska OCT. 20 at Kansas State OCT. 27 at Iowa State NOV. 3 at Oklahoma NOV. 10 at Oklahoma State NOV. 17 KANSAS 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS(?) 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major col­lege football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS. 
IOWA over Illinois by 4 Texas over Penn State by 2 (at Meadowlands) Nebraska over SYRACUSE by 24 MICHIGAN STATE over Purdue by 3 PITI'SBURGH over West Virginia by 2.5 Clemson over GEORGIA TECH by 7 Michigan over INDIANA by 20.5 ALABAMA over Vanderbilt by 7.5 STANFORD over Arizona State by 1 UCLA over COLORADO by 11 SOUTIIERN CAL even with Louisiana St. 

Larry Burke  JeffBiumb  Mike Sullivan  Theron Roberta  EdDomanaky  Dennis Grace  DavaNewman  
Sports Writer  Asst. Sports Editor  Sports Editor  SportsWriter  Sports Writer  Guest Celebrity  Random Student  
18·21  14-25  13-26  13-26  13-26  18-21  21-18  
.462  .359  .333  .333  .333  .462  .538  
(last week ­ 6-8)  (last week-7-7)  
Hawkeyes  Illini  Hawkeyes  Hawkeyes  Illini  Hawkeyes  Illini  
Longhorns  Longhorns  lions  Longhorns  Longhorns  lions  Longhorns  
Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Orangemen  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  
Boilers  Spartans  Spartans  Boilers  Boilers  Spartans  Boilers  
Panthers  Mountainee1rs  Panthers  Panthers  Mountaineers  Panthers  Panthers  
Jackets  Tigers  Jackets  Jackets  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  
Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  Hoosiers  Wolverines  
Commodores  Commodores  Tide  Tide  Tide  Tide  Tide  
Devils  Cardinal  Devils  Cardinal  Cardinal  Devils  Devils  
Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  
Tigers  Trojans  Tigers  Trojans  Trojans  Tigers  Tigers  

Georgia over SOUTII CAROUNA by 3.5  Bulldogs  Gamecocks  Bulldogs  Bulldogs  Bulldogs  Bulldogs  Bulldogs  
WISCONSIN over Northwestern by 21  Badgers  Wildcats  Wildcats  Badgers  Badgers  Wildcats  Wildcats  
Notre Dame over MISSOURI by 3.5  Irish  Tigers  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  



Showcase 
Friday, September 28, 1984-page 13 
Letters to a lonely God 
The pied piper 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features staff writer 
ohn was planning to get married, 
and though he was a Catholic, 
~e wa.' not going to be married in a 
church ceremony. 
"I talked with the pa.~tor, and he 
wanted to know if I attended Sun· 
day Mass. I told him I didn't. The 
pastor said if that's how things were 
with me, he couldn't let me have a 
Catholic wedding." john shrugged 
his shoulders. "I decided if the 
Church wa.~n't interested in marry­
Ing me, I wasn't interested in being 
a Catholic." 
It's not my place to tell a pastor 
how to run his church. Howevur, 
I've known John and his large family 
for many years. He has a conscience 
so Christian that it keeps getting 
him In trouble. I think it satisfied his 
sense of justice that he was being 
punished for his carelessness in 
skipping Mass. Some Catholics don't 
go to Mass because they are indif· 
fercnt. John's staying away was part 
of the personal idealism he was 
working out, if you can believe it. 
"John," I said, "the Catholic 
Church Is Noah's ark, and there's 
room on board for you. You're 
going to be married in church 
where you belong." With his 
cooperation, we worked things out. 
Now he is raising a Catholic family 
of his own. 
The neighbor named Nate who led me as a kid to the Catholic Church was an Irishman who drank too much. My father who never touched a drop, didn't care for Nate:, but he could scarcely order me to avoid a neighbor whose children I went to school with. I never saw Nate drink, because every year he went to the priest, and made his annual pledge not to touch alcohol. When the time of abstinence was over, he would go on a bender, and his wife kept him out of sight until he wa.' sober again. 
Every day, I spent time with him, listening to him tdl stories and arguing religion. He kept pressing Catholic truths on me, and I wore out several preachers getting the 
answers to bring back to him. My 
father was right to worry about 
Nate's influence. Nate was the pied 
piper leading me to the mountain 
where my family, so to speak, 
would lose me to the pope. 
Nate never hid much from me. His father had made a pile of money as a bootlegger, and I heard stories of Catholics who raised Cain with the official Protestant morality encoded in the law prohibiting the sale ofliquor. From Nate, I learned which underworld figures were Italian and Irish, and how some of them, who had Catholic mothers or girl friends praying for them, died in the grace ofChrist with a priest to give them absolution. 
They were no-good bums working for syndicates ofcrime with names like Murder, Inc. But at the end, God's mercy took them home to heaven. I knew the history of Catholic movie stars and politicians; how God sent them good luck if they practised their faith, and bad luck ifthey lived as apostates. 
I heard numerous variations on the theme of the Good Thief dying in mansions or pigstys, with the Lord, pleased with some token gesture offidelity like finding a scapular medal around a scoundrel's neck, coming in with the punch line: "Today, thou shalt be with me in paradise." An old sailor, who had betrayed a sweet· heart in every port, came safely to the snug harbor ofsalvation, Nate said, because he never forgot his rosary. By the time he closed his eyes in death, he only had three beads left to pray on. 
Nate died while I was a semi­narian. In his last years, with his wife dead, his life got out ofcontrol from the booze. He attached his hope ofsalvation to the help he had given me, leading me toward the Church. 
"He who helps a boy to the altar, I will in no way cast out," Nate said as though he were inventing Scripture. My becoming a priest was his substitute for wearing a scapular or clutching the beads. Long before I read Graham Greene or the French Catholic novelists, I knew the Catholic Church was refugtum peccatorum, the refuge of sinners. 
Protestants were more successful in assembling congregations of the righteous. At St. Dominic's, you could find Hennessy the bartender; some ofthe women of easy virtue from the fancy house; the notorious Mrs. Casey, kept, they said, by Fagin, the lawyer; gamblers from the Blue Moon Cafe, well known on the water front; and in the front pew, their heads held high, the mother and unmarried sisters of Monsignor Houlihan, the haughty domestic prelate. The Catholic Church was truly, as Nate would say, a net straining with a mixed catch offish; a field where the wheat and tares grew up together. 
Christ sald: In my Father's house, there are many mansions. The philosophers have a mansion. The theologians have a mansion. The canon lawyers and liturgists have mansions reserved for them. Each has its own jargon and point of view. It seems to me that pastors have a mansion too; the sheepfold belonging to the shepherd who rounds up the strays. 
The strays get confused by law, or liturgy, philosophy and theology, but they will listen to the kindness of a shepherd's voice. Other sheep I have that are not of this fold, Christ said. They are not necessarily black sheep, or dropouts, though they may be so. Speak words oflove to them, and they will follow you anywhere. But if you come on like an establishment teaching them the only correct way of thinking or praying, they'd prefer to join the Elks' Club or Eaters' Anonymous. 
Nate's view of the Catholic Church might have been sentimen· tal, but I loved him as the pied piper. He piped me onto Noah's ark with a shepherd's song. The ark is as wide as the mercy of God. You can pay for your passage with the bro· ken beads from a rosary. 
Features briefs 
In defense of Omaha 

Allllociated Press 
OMAHA, Ncb. ( AP) · 'lbe Greater Omaha Chamber of Commerce had reservations about a Ramada Inn advertisement that local promoters said depicted Omaha a.' a "hick town," and a motel official said Tuesday the ad would be canceled. 
"Ibe ad circulated nationally by Ramada suggested that at other guest houses, it's as hard to find one's room "as it is to find Omaha." 
Gretchen Reeder, the chamber's manager of communications, wrote to Ramada's advertising director in Phoenix, Ariz. 
She noted that the bottom line of the ad urged callers to dial Ramada for information. 'Inc number has an 800 prefix. 
"Do you know where you call when you dial that 800 number?" Reeder a.<~ked. "Omaha! We are a telccommunications·reservations center and often referred to as 'the 800-number capital of the world." 
Reeder wrote that the ad was written by some Madison Avenue copywriter who has never been west of the Hudson!" 
Ken jensen, vice president of public relation for Ramada Inn, said that the ad was not intended to poke fun at Omaha. 
"There's no inference at all that whatever city we may have men· tioncd is a hick town," jensen said. "We really do have to apologize if someone was offended by it." 

n~~~ry's 
BACK! 

Overabundance of autos 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE Beach, Fla. (AP) · When Linclle Lang Radford's little brown car was stolen last week, the 68·year-old widow was trying to decide how she would manage. 
Now, she has another problem, but she's not grumbling. Generous Jacksonville area residents have given her two cars. 
A story in last week's Florida Times-Union and jacksonville Jour­nal reported how her 1980 Toyota had been stolen just after she had made the 48th and final car pay· ment. 
Frank and Barbara Alfidi drove to the woman's home Saturday and gave her the keys to a 1978 Cougar. 
Monday, a Westside businessman gave Mrs. Radford a 1972 Pontiac sedan. AI Perman gave the woman the keys and told her ifshe did not need the car to give it to someone who did. 
"I would have been terribly grateful if somebody had given me a wheelbarrow. This just overwhelms me," she said. 


•MOVIES 
Tonight and tomorrow the Student Activities Board continues its Clint Eastwood series with "Sudden Impact." Sandra Locke also stars in the film which will be shown at 7, 9:15, and II:30 at the Engineering Auditorium. Admission will be S1.50. 
The Friday Night Film Series will present "Confidentially Yours." This 1983 French film (with English subtitles) is director Francois Trulfaut's affectionate tribute to the screwball comedies ofthe 1930's and the stylish film noir mysteries of the 1940's. The film will be shown at 7:30 and 9:30 in the Annenburg Auditorium and admission will be S2. 50. 
•MUSIC 

On Sunday, Laura Klugherz will be presented by the music department in a faculty violin recital. Accompanied by William Cerny, pianist, she will perform works of Rodrigo, Bartok, Sarasate, and Faure. The performance will begin at 4 p.m. in the Anncnburg Auditorium. Admission is free. 
Be sure to JUMP in your car this weekend and road trip to ~ Merrillville, Indiana where the Pointer Sisters will be performing at the Holiday Star Theatre on Sunday. The concert will begin at 8 Sunday evening and tickets are S 14. 95. For ticket information, call 769-6600. 
•ART 

A new exhibit begins today and will be at the Snite until Oct. 28. The exhibition, "Robert Arneson: Masks and Portraits," was organized by Landfall Press, Inc. of Chicago. Arneson, best known for his funk ceramic sculpture, has added drawing and printmaking to his repertoire and this exhibit. The thirty pieces on display, all self-portraits, give insight into the artist's personality and humor. 
The exhibition "Andre Kertesz: Form and Feeling," which began on Aug. 26, continues at the Snite Museum and will continue through Oct. 20. There are eighty-eight photographs in this retrospective collection spanning 1914-1972. The display is on loan from the Hallmark Photographic Collection and is touring the nation. Hours at the Museum arc 10 to 4 Tuesday through Friday; 1 to 4 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to8. 
..

•MASS The celebrants for masses at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Robert Kennedy at 5:15 (Saturday night vigil). 
(Rev. Mr. john Kurtzkc, C.S.C. · homillst) Father Richard Bullcne at 9 a.m. Father Peter Rocca at 10:30. Father Stephen Gibson at 12:15. 
Bits and Pieces Wumpus 
.. 


--~-~~ -----~---------­
-
Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 14

Classifieds 
FACT: The Air Force game is coming up DESPERATE!! DESPERATE!! DESPER· J.V. CHOU: ANATOMY OF A SCHLEP· THE DAYS OF YESTERYEAR . soon. ATE!! FOR 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET!! PER WEEKEND Take thatL-Train! The Notre Dame football team may haveLOST:1 PAIR PENNY LOAFERS· 
REWARD-KEVIN 3828 

NOTICES FACT: Two people I know are coming up WILL PAY$$!! CALL LINDA2n·6856 lost to Missouri in 1978. but it'll change soon. SANG KIM: RETURN THE UMBRELLA, now lor sure. It you want to see history:
LOST:SHARP GHETTO BLASTER AT BIG BROS. CONCESSION STAND SAT. 

FACT: They don't have tickets, but wsnt Need 1 MIAMI GA. WiN pay$$. caN Lisa a! OR YOU'LL BEGOIN' DOWN BIG TIME Mizzou·s win over the Irish and a great comeback in the 1978 Cotton Bowl, come
to see the game. 1915. Are you in need of FINANCIAl AID? FACT: I need two tickets. to CAVANAUGH HALL'S basement on ROOMIE WILL KILL ME. GREAT 
REWARD OFFERRED!I! CALL ;JOHN

Leader5hip Training! Ad· TICKETS!TICKETS! YOU WANT 'EM, I ALCOHOL DISCUSSION/LECTURE Dr. Friday night at 7:30 lor the second in a se­
Challenge! 1773. FACT: MynameisMATI.Icarryabadge. venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob CONCLUSION: It you don't call 25n GOT 'EM. 3 G.A.'S FOR MIAMI! IF YOU Vann Smith LIBRARY AUDITORIUM ries of Irish highlight films. 
Tuesday Oct. 2 8:00 PM Take a study

Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the soon and sell me two GA's to the Air Force HAPPEN TO BE INTERESTED. CALL 
ROTC Building. (239--6264) PAT AT 2025. THIS COULD SAVE break and come join in For more into call What do you do when your zipper melts LOST Wallet during the Holy Cross SYR to your dog. YOUR LIFE. Counseling & Psych Services Center 239 before your date even gets there??? Ask 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? at the Americana Hotel lri. night. There 7336 Herman. Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad· was no money, only pictures and IDs. MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED 2 Miami GA's ......................................... venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob 4124 REWARD!!!! VOTE FOR BILL THE CAT! ACK ACK! Ray and Pete serial 3. Pete. did you get 
game, I'm going to do something terrible 
needed. Call Mike at 1740. Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the your shaft bent? Ray the latest odds are
WILL TRADE 2 GA AIR FORCE OR 2 GA 
ROTC Building. (239--6264) lor you to make it through December,
PENN FOR 2 GA MIAMI. 5049, 233· 
maybe. LOST • STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET 
2698. 
........................ 

(SECTION 30). CALL TOM 232-11348. NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S CALL PETER -4606 H-a·a·a·rry!! ..... Don't Worry. You'll Ace 
SKIDDERS ARE GODS AMONG MERE EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 TIX! NEED 2 FOR MIAMI, MANY FOR 
the Mother. (Good Luck!) 

MORTALS. LOST· N.Y. DRIVER'S LICENSE. CALL 
SO. CAR. ($)HELP($) KEVIN AT 3024 TYPING SERVICE TOM 232-«148. HELP AN NO STUDENT GET A JOB! . ............................................................ DEB, I have so much confidence in you; 
p.j. benz YO DUDE. "eye of the tiger" get 

2n-604s MY FUTURE BOSS(?) NEEDS 4 GA Getting DESPERATE FOR MIAMI TICK· Good Luck on LSAT's! I'll be waiting lor GNARLY on the LSATs who loves ya?
PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE LOST: A CRYSTAL NECKLACE last MIAMI TIX. MONEY IS NO OBJECT! ETS (4311) you Sunday night(hint!) Love ya' ...JOE Thur. night. If found please call3693. 
CALL LARRY (283-2015) 
PRO-TYPE Specializing in student NEEDED: 4 SC GA's and 4 STUD tix. Call NEED 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET. WILL In response to last week's personal about MUSCLES,SWEAT.BADNESS,SEX.
papers, disaertations, law papers 1250 
the merits of Kethl.., Chrlatfa

FOUND: STUDENT FOOTBALL TICK· PAY HANDSOMELY. CALL BRIAN AT ETS AFTER THE COLORADO GAME (9--1 MIAMI STUD TICKET NEEDED · call 2473 OR 2448. GO AHEAD MAKE MY (Dogbook, p. 22) BUTI KICKING BEHAVIOR THATS 22·84). TO CLAIM PLEASE CALL THE Katie in morning 1514 DAY. RIGHT ITS JOHN UHLE AND HES BAD· 
resumes 2n-5833 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. AND SIMPLY BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
We have been nooded with more com· ments. quotes and observations about

NOTRE DAME LOST AND FOUND 239--DER THAN EVER . GET A REAL IMAGE. 5036. NEED MIAMI GA'S $$$$ RALPH 1486 Rich Yuppl• need Miami GAs. Call Tom that "Babe from Brlgh-....", Kath· LOVE SMC. P.S. WE LOVE TRASHY Wordprocasaing and typing. 272-8827 $$$$ at 1582. Money, money, money, money. I..,Chrlatfa FALLON. Here are just a few ... TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. Need 5 South Carolina G.A.'s. Will pay "A definite reason for guys LOST: A GERMAN SHEPARD, BLACK ANY reasonable or unreasonable price. to be excited about every dance,
WANTED:2 MIAMI TICKETS..··MONEY TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674· MALE WITH CLIPPED EAR, AMHERST Call Chuck at 2n-6398 or 239--7673. SYR and formal... 
" 

IS NOT THE QUESTION--KEVIN 3828 9182 FOR DETAILS. MA TAGS. CALL CARMEN AT 6580. -Hall Social Comml!lllonara 
GOOFY, THIS ONE IS FOR YOU! 
"Could well replace alcohol 

I NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET-Student or HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE, MARIANNE 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674· LOST: WHITE as the center ofN.D. social life. " 
FOR SALE: TWO 45 YO. LINE MIAMI 9182 FOR DETAILS. WINDBREAKER/JACKET WIBLUE & Frank at 2043. GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 10/3. CALL -Fr.Baauch•mp Do you want to see History being made? '"Win one for the Gipper' was 
GA·willing to pay BUCKS $$$$. Call 
RED COLLAR IN LAFORTUNE. IF 3572 When is the last time Missouri beat Notre 
getting a blr old ... Now, we're

FOUND, PLEASE CALL TERRY AT 283'· Need 2 stud tix lor Miami game Call John Dame? Yes, it's time lor the showing of 
1991. winning 'em for Kethlean !"
NEED 2 MIAMI TIX·STUD/GA CALL another football highlight film in
2835 2852 Cavanaugh Hall. This week's feature is TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 
-Garry F•uet 674·9182 FOR DETAILS. 
Now... what are you waitinglor?Getoll of

NEED 3 Air Force Tix lor WEAL THY 1978. A spectacular Cotton Bowl com· your duffs, pick up the phone and give
Alum! St. orGA, call Kevin AT 3024 NEED MIAMI TIX!I Keith 4216 eback is also included. The movie isFOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A 
LOST: GOLD RING WITH GARNET KethiMn Chrletfa a call today at 284­
FREE and will ba shown Friday at 7:00 in BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272· 

"'STONE. PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 283· 5457. Just watch your life improve!!! 1858 
I need one GA lor MIAMI game. Call the basement. Bring a friend! 
12721F FOUND. 

Terry, 3305. 
2-4 TICKETS NEEDED FOR AIR FORCE BOOKS BOUGHT, SOLD .AND TRADE!! OR MIAMI. JOE 2361
LOST ONE BOTTLE OF J.D. ON 

Help! We need MIAMI tix. Call Rob 1784 ATTENTION; Stanford Hall presents SECOND FLOOR P.W. SAT. NIGHT. IF Kathy4071 PAUL PAHORESKY "THE ALASKAN PrMent this sd and receive an extra 10/ 
OFF store books. PANDORA'S BOOKS HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY, KEVIN
FOUND PLEASE CALL SLUGGO AND WONDER" Party from 10 until 2. Great

937 South Bend Ave. 233·2342 ASSOCIATES AT 2985 TOSIN, A SUPER FRIEND. ENJOY THIS 
tunes, good food provided tor this festive DAY (SEPT. 29); DON'T PARTY TOOnightEXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. 
MUCH. HERE IS YOUR AD THAT YOU Yo,l need a whole bunch of Air Force tick· 

CALL MRS. COKER 233--7009. AlWAYS WANTED; DON'T FORGET 
ets. I'm talking large quantities. Vast PERSONALS 
MINE. HAPPY 8-DAY. P.S. 12 INCHES amounts. Lots and lots of 'em. Can we SMC/ND SUMMER PROGRAMS·· 

GIRLS. LOVE. NANCY. MAKE YOUR OWN WINE LONDON AND ROME--TRAVEL IN
lalk? Call the Alien at 
U·pic French Hybrid Wine Grapes 20-25 IRELAND, SCOTLAND, FRANCE, GER· HAPPY BIRTHDAY! NANG'! HAVE FUN 
SOUTH CAROLINA TICKETS 
cents per lb. Apples-Pears· Concords. MANY. AND SWITZERLAND. WITH J.D. A RILD AND CWAZ.Y DAV BE·
WANTED 

I need some. that's all. Call the Alien at
LEMON CREEK FARMS. US 31·1 mi. N. COURSES IN ART, BUSINESS, EDU· CKONS. YOU'RE LOVED BY LOTS OF & 5 mi. W. of Berrien Springs, Mi. on CATION, ENGLISH, ITALIAN, AND HIS· GUYS. NICE LEGS! WEAR SHORTS
Putonagown
Lemon Crk. Rd. 616-471-1321. TORY. FIRST MEETING OCT. 3, 7:00 MORE OFTEN. LOVE, THE KAZ 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN & MY DAD ARE That touches lhe ground. 
PM, RM 232 MOREAU (ST. MARY'S).

BOTH FROM NJ AND NEITHER HAVE Float on a river ························ 
SLIDES, PIZZA, ETC. FOR INFO CALL JOHN, I CAN'T WAIT FOR SAT. NITE!

MIAMI TIX. IF YOU HAVE 2 GA'S CALL For ever end ever ...
NEED 4 MIAMI GAs WILL PAY $40 each 284-4460 OR 272-3726 (PROF. BLACK). WE'LL HAVE A BALL! AR AR! LUV, SUZ GREG·3578
x3639 or 1·264·2894 TRACY 

TYPING -Pink Floyd JOHN AND TIM! THANK YOU. THANK
Jackie Boggs WE NEED MIAMI TIX CALL WO'ZZ 3224 
WANTED: BABYSITTER FOR 3 KIDS: 5, YOU. THANK YOU. DINNER WAS
664-8793 OR1812
3, 4 months. In our home, some nights GREAT! FROM FINGERS TO FROZEN
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
and weekends. Call 2n-BB07. Good BROTHER AND SISTER TERMINALLY BANANAS! WE OWE YOU ONE. HOW
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE ILL. LAST WISH TO SEE ME EAT 500
money. ABOUT CHICAGO PIZZA SOME
Will type your papers, manuscripts, etc. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
You have Miami GA tickets at a HOTDOGS WHILE STANDING ON MY WEEKEND? THANKS AGAIN! LOVE,Fast and accurate. Reasonable rates. 
reasonable price,! WANT THEM Paul HEAD OR SEE MIAMI GAME. NEED 2 SUZANDSUS
Pick up and drop oil service. Call Mary PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234·
2318 STUDENT TICKETS. I'M TALKING 
.............................................

234·5545. 0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test LARGE BILLS OR PERMANENT INTES.. 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TO FELICIAavailable. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 

I Need 6 G.A.'s lor Miami! Please call TINAL DAMAGE. AGUNGA! CALL BOB 
(CAROL STIEN). GET READY FOR A Leah at 3782. AT43850RTEDAT 1741.
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Need Miami tix. GA and/or Student. $$ WILD (BIRTHDAY) MIAMI GAME TAIL·Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad· Call3274 ALANON/ALA TEEN Is alcohol a problem GATER. LOVE, YOUR ROOMMATES 
venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob in your family? Are you affected by some­
I NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL BRIAN 36n. HEY GREG! YEAH! YOU, GREG 
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the NEED RIDE TO INDY FRIDAY,OCT. one else's drinking? Maybe we can help DAVIS!! READ THIS! CLOSER. 
ROTC Building. (239--6264) 5TH. CALL THERESA 3888 Call 239 5085 CLOSER. YOU MUST BE THE ONLY 1 2 KNOW. TU VEUX TOUT SA VOIR DE MA 
Ride to Denver needed for fall break. call NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL KATHY AT APIa • dirty word. LOOK OUT' IT'S THE TINKLING ST..NS
VIE PRIVEE? O.K. JE TE DIRAI TOUT Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? EN PRENANT LE VERRE QUE JE TE
Anne 284·5076 2906. 21ST B'DAY. WATCH FOR SMILING 
ANNE BOWLER ON HER THRONE venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL JOHN AT 2246 Go Camp! Beat LSATs! TONIGHT! 
Leadership Training' Challenge! Ad· DOIS. QUAND TU VEUX ... ! HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY!!!!! LOVE, KISSES, AND Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the F ROOMMATES WANTED BARB 277· 
OR 1296. 
THE WHOLE WORKS!!!!!!!I!!!I! BABETH. ROTC Building. (239--6264) 7566 
LSATs ... DEAD' CAR WASH CAR WASH The JUNIOR Need Miami nx! Will pay big bucks! Call CLASS will be holding a BENEFIT CAR
ARE women really attracted to curly EXPERT TYPING 2n·8534 after 5:30 PILOTS WANTING TO FORM AN AERO­234·5545. endad haired,blue eyed, soccer playing men WASH, SATURDAY, Sept. 29 at the 
MCKINLEY-IRONWOOD intersection. $1

CLUB CONTACT STEVE AT 4125 from MORRISSEY?? Ask Liz L. to find 
HELP. DESPERATELY NEED TWO per car. All proceeds to go to LOGAN
Carol and Kathleen· Don't worry. By this out! 
MIAMI GA'S. CALL JOE AT 1143. CENTER SPECIAL OLYMPICS. Bring
lime tommorow it will all be over. Good your dirly car anytime between 10:00 at1dluck and get ready to celebrate! Love, ·························· 2:00. YOU CAN'T BEAT THIS DEAL' 
Mary

TYPING SERVICE LOGAN CENTER I!Mde VOLUNTEERS 
2n-6045 NEED 1 PENNSTATEGA, CALL STEVE for FRIDAY'S DANCE at 7:30 •nd lor 
I think 

LET'S GO CRAZY Dance 
FOR SALE

PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE 277·5031 SATlJRDAY'S FARM TRIP and PICNIC. 
I think lam.

Saturday, Sept. 29 GET INVOLVED Ill Therefore. I am. 
BIG BUCKS DESPERATE! NEED UP TO 9:00 p.m.-2:00a.m. 
I think. PRO-TYPE Specializing in student 6 MIAMI TICKETS G.A.'S OR STU· SMC Haggar Center JOHN NICKODEMUS • HAPPY 19TH 
-The Moody Blues

$1 .00 admission 
papers, disaertations, law papers DENTS CALL JERRY AT 1735 BIRTHDAY! WE LOVE YOU! DAD, MOM, 
Sponsored by the
resumes2n·58338a.m. to 10p.m. FOR SALE LARGE PORTABLE BRIDGET, LUCY, LUZ, RO, PAUL, FM/~BAND/STEREO CASSETTE Need 1 Miami GA. Call Janet at 284-4340. Social Allemative Club CHICA, AND LEROY. YOI 
Wordprocasaing and typing. 272-8827 PLAYER/REC GREAT COND. ALL 
Good luck on tha LSATa, Zeka. Show 

SPECS. CALL2n..0191 I never met a C.H.U.D. I didn't like 
thOM atuffy Eat Cout taetfng peopt.

Need ~6 GA's tor the Oct 13th Air Force Happy Birthday Mary Ellen! Love.
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
that • Mountal.-c.n play Parry

Game. Will Pay in cash. Call Anne 5253 Christine and Diane 
FOR SALE PAIR ALTEC MODEL 19 Mllaon with tha beat of 'am. 
TYPING DONE IN MYHOME. CALL 674· (SMC)
STUDIO LOUDSPEAKERS CALL 277· -w.
MaryS.· good luck on LSATs!!! 0191
9182 FOR DETAILS. Hi Mom. Dad and the kids from LF. Thanks 
Miami ticket needed will trade any for everything! (Hope the Pope ticket(s) call Tim at 1609 SENIORS! Want to go to New Orleans on
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674· shows ... )Love, Lisa 1973 VW ·WHITE, EVERYTHING NEW the senior trip? Take over my $100 
Marye,
9182 FOR DETAILS. 

ON IT. RUNS GOOD. $1,695. REAL We have tolal confidence in your abilities. 
deposit tor $50. Call Kala 813717. Sharon (O.W.) You are such a star! Do
NICE CAR FOR WORK OR FUN TIME. We're sure you'll do well on the LSAT's 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL you give lessons? NO GUTS, NO
CALL 288-5811 AFTER 3 P.M. OR too!!! Good luck wench! 
674·9182 FOR DETAILS. WANTED! WANTED! WANTED! GLORY!! Have a blast! Chris 
COME TO THE NORTH DINING HALL Szan& Peg AND ASK FOR NANCY. 
KEENAN 3-WEST QUOTE OF THE Need 4 G.A. tlcketa to the South Marci··Do they really teach those SKILLS W£EK:Getout, sch/epperl! Ceroll.,. footbilll pme on Oetober 20. at "tennis camp"? 
2 AIR FORCE TIX. CALL 233-2163. OBSERVERITESI JOHN DECKER Kick ass on the LSATs !!! 
Willing to Mil.,_ofi.II.M. atock to 
Plan to ettancl our flret ....-1-' Let's show them all what you got II 
tt...nce dam. Cell Mllr11 w. et 283-2045
T.K.O., FRANK THE SLAV WEAR Have 20 MIAMI GA's for sale. Call 232· activity of tha,.....aoftbell, munchl• 
or23.5313.
THOSE BLUE JEANS AND STAY OUT 0801 •nd more. Thla Frlcllly et 4 p.m. Y'ell JOHN. Good luck on the LSATs! I know 
Dionysus· I GET UP IN THE EVENING 

OF THE 'BAAl A ON WEEKENDS come up to the office for more dlltalla. you can do it!! Love, Terri 
AND I AIN'T GOT NOTHING TO SAY I COME HOME IN THE MORNING I GO WANTED; People to attend Stanford for sale: 2 Air Force GA's and 2 Miami 4245 ATTENTION "CAVEMEN" (ESP. 
Block of 8 MIAMI GA's Must sell!!! Brian 
TO BED FEELING THE SAME WAY I 

Hall's "MEET PAUL PAHORESKY·THE GA's call284·5025 I hear MISSISSIPPI law is pretty tough, FIOCHS): Little Laurie is no longer jailbait 
AIN'T GOT NOTHING BUT TIRED MAN, 

ALASKAN WONDER" Party on friday huh Teai? You'll do well tomorrow. Alter and she wants her P-man. So wish her a
I'M JUST TIRED AND BORED WITH 

from 10 until2. Great tunes and good food FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GA'S ON THE 40. all, you couldn't dance either ... or was that Happy 8-day on Sat. 9/29!
MYSELF HEY THERE BABY I COULD provided lor this fun night. BEST OFFER. CALL JIM 1246. NEED 2 GA'S FOR S. C,,R. Call 277· just the G& T influence? Good luck! Your 
USE JUST A LITTLE HELP me 3652alter6. 
Hawaiian Goddess. HayW..,Ial BOOKS BOUGHT SOLD & TRADE. THIS 
Only one more_, AD IS WORTH X·TRA 10/ DISC. PAN· I need 2 AIR FORCE tix caN 1589 or 2885 HEYUSTEN! (W•tch out for IliON,..,. ,...mad DORAS BOOKS 937 SO.BEND AVE. ask for CHAPIN Three researchers from the planet MIKEl) Vlimfskik are coming to earth to study the Melissa· Hope you have a great SOCial activities and recreation patterns of 
Birthday!!!

TICKETS 
human beings. They absolutely must see a Notra Dame football game! However, I NEED MIAMI & ANY HOME GAME their spaceship will only be here on No­HayZ.rlal GAS. 272-6306 vember 17. the day of the PENN STATE To MAR. Only 5 months and 14 days till Saa you In Mlzzou game. They need three G.A.s. Please call freedom. Ohhh Yeaaaa!! JMW I -nt to party with you I NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. CALL DAVE D. AT My BIG brother used to baat me up. He Mary (their human contact) at 1333 if you Bill 
LOST/FOUND I 

says he will again unless I get him a stu· want to further the cause of scence and Brother and Sister terminally ill. Last wish Room 259; Mark x1154 dent MIAMI ticket. It you can save me, call inter-species understanding. Vlimlskik to see me eat 500 hotdogs while standing Need Miami tickets. Will trade South Amy at 3700 or 4228. thanks you. on my head or see the Miami game. 
LOST: KEYS, Coat of Arms key ring; 1801. 
HEY BREENER: I would wish you the REWARD: LOST CANON SURE SHOT Carolina. Call John at the cave, 3467. 
Agungat I'M TALKING BIG DOLLARS best on LSAT's, but... I've got a lot to do. CAMERA IN THE STADIUM ON SAT. ...................................................... Need 5 South Carolina G.A's!! Will pay 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, OR PERMANENT INTESTINAL AROUND SEC. 28. IF FOUND PLEASE NEED 2 OR 4 MIAMI GA'S, PLEASE ANY reasonable or unreasonable price!! CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE TRAUMA. CALL BOB AT 4385 or Ted at THEY PEL TED US WITH ROCKS AND CALL 284-4369. CALL TIMOAT287·8264 Call Chuck at 2n-6398 or 239--7673. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 1741. GARBAGE 

The Observer Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 1 5 
Panther leads tennis teaiD into Northwestern Invitational 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team will be travelling to Evanston, 111., this weekend to face tough Divi· sion I competition at the Northwes· tern Invitational. 
Leading tht• way for the Irish will be junior Susie Panther. Panther, a Praire Village, Kan., native is coming off a recent hamstring injury which sidelined her for the first three meets of the fall season. The two­time letter winner is confident that she is back at I00 percent and feels that her game is in mid-season form, as she has already compiled a perfect 4-0 record. 
"I pulled a quad muscle and it's kind of hard to play now that it's l'old," says Panther, "but I haven't had any pain and things are looking good. I'm starting to play well and I'm feeling preuy well." 
Panther, who swings her racquet against the best the opposition has to offer as she plays in the number­
.

..--a&-..--. 
GET WILD 
AT HOME 
TONIGHT 
$1°0 OFF 
WITH PURCHASE OF ONE LARGE 
WilD PIZZA 
TOPPIN6S Ham, Mushrooms, Fresh Onions, Pepperoni, Italian Sausage, Black Olives, and Green Pepper 
LOCATION: lower level of Saga 

HOURS: Sun-Thurs, 5 p.m. -12 a.m. 
PHONE: 284-2011 


,. 
FRIDAY 

HAPPY HOUR 6 -8 
one spot, also feels confident that the Irish will be in the running for the Division ll national. champion­ship in their last year of play at that level. 
"I think we have the potential to do it (win the national champion­ship), (but) we need a little work," Panther says. "We proved last year that we could do well against the top teams, and I think we have a better team this year, so our chances are better. 
"Last year, it all boiled down to mental attitude and I don't think we had it. If we could develop the en· thusiasm and the positive mental at· tltude that we need... that will push us over the top." 
As the top seed for the Irish this year, Panther will be looking to bet­ter the marks that she had achieved in her two previous seasons. These include: most victories in singles competition by an Irish netter, 34 in 1983-84; best career winning­percentage in doubles play, .820; best winning-percentage for a 
Profs, stop by to chat on your way home and grab a burger! 
* *Come Dance to the Live Sounds of 
Spunk 

10 p.m.-2 a.m. A HOT NEW BAND WITH EXPERIENCE 
2 Forms of~ Required 
season, .944; and best career 
winning-percentage overall, .784. 
Panther, who began playing ten­
nis when she was eight years old, ob­
viously puts team goals over 
personal goals. 
"I would much rather have a team 
goal to win the national champion­. ship while I'm here," says Panther. "I don't have any individual goals that 
are (more) important to me. 
"In the juniors, it was more impor­
tant individually. College tennis is a 
lot different-you're playing for your 
team and not yourself." 
Panther, an American Studies 
major who gives tennis lessons over 
the summer, hopes to go into broad­
casting or journalism upon gradua­
tion. At Notre Dame, she is well 
respected by both her coach and 
teammates. 
"She's very excited and tries to 
motivate the other players in a team 
aspect," says Irish head coach 
Sharon Petro ofher top player. "One 
of the differences in the last couple 
of years is that we've really 
Feel like you're all alone· in this? Want to learn some new ways of relating to others? Have some things you need.to talk over? How about Counseling & Psychological Services? 
GROUP SERVICES 
Interpersonal Skills Groups Grief/Luss Groups Support Groups 
for more information or to make an appointment CALL 239-7336 or stop by 3rd floor Student Health Center (Infirmary) 
Fl!:.lGND5, .. ,,,,.'\~I . 
~~:~~@
c.)c :J.;.c:-,
I 
~~~ 

ALANON Stress Management Assertion Training 
developed that team concept and team unity in a sport (in which) that's very difficult to do. I think that that has made a big difference in our performance after the last couple of years, and Susie has helped with that." 
Senior co-captain Laura Lee also believes that Panther is capable in the number-one spot. 
"She's upheld that position pretty well. She's got the experience there and she's getting experience," Lee says. 
Panther believes that leadership will be demonstrated by the cap· tains and each player throughout this year, and that this will aid them in their championship quest. 
"This year, I think we're all leaders in some respect (as) we help each other out," Panther comments. "We look to the captains because they're the oldest and most experienced, but everyone on the team is a help and a leader." 
Panther, likewise, believes that Petro is a great asset to the team. 
Sacramenta( Preparation 
at the 

University of Notre Dame 
Information Session Sunday, Sept. 30 Library Lounge 
7pm All about Baptism. and 
Fu(( Communion. Prrpamtion 

for unbaptised persons wishing to become a member of the Roman Catholic Church 
for baptised persons wanting Full Communion In the Catholic Tradlllon 
for those desiring to know more about the Roman Catholic faith 
Bpm All about Confirmation Prrpamtion 
for baptised Catholics desiring to celebrate the Sacrament of Confirmation 
"She (Petro) is a good person. . . 
very organized," says the junior. 
"She knows a lot about athletics and 
is always there to talk to you and 
help you out. She's really concerned 
for our team and she really wants us 
to win, and that helps us a lot. She's 
very intense." 
Panther is confident Notre Dame will be successful in future Division I action, but believes that it will take a while to achieve the status the Irish have attained in Division II. The younger players, like freshman Mic· helle Dasso, will be the key to suc­cess as Notre Dame moves from a two-scholarship team to an eight­scholarship team. 
"We'll have the scholarship money so that we can recruit and get the good players," Panther says. "Notre Dame is such a big name that it won't take much to get people here. 
"Ifwe work really hard this winter and prove ourselves at nationals, then I think we'll be ready (for Divi­sion 1). But It's going to take a lot of work... everyone (nevertheless) is willing to put out the work." 
Before the Irish begin to worry about next year, however, they must first busy themselves with the quest for their first national title this year. 
The Northwestern tourney this weekend will provide the Irish with an excellent challenge and give them some much-needed experi­ence for the stretch drive next spring. In Evanston, the Irish will face the perennial top-ten Northwestern Wildcats, Tennessee, Iowa, Minnesota, Kentucky and Southern Illinois. 
The Northwestern Invitational begins today and will wind up on Sunday. Each team will be entering eight singles players and four doubles teams to be placed in a pool. The marches will then be deter­mined at random. 
Read 
Psycho Chicken 





For more Information contact: University Ministry Office Badin Hall 
• 239-5242 
-


The Observer Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 16 
Saint Mary's tennis team plays host to SMC Invitational 

By MARK B.JOHNSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

Fresh off a 9-0 rout of an out­classed Valparaiso squad on Wed­nesday, coach John Killeen's St. Mary's tennis team must now con­front its biggest challenge of the young season, as it plays host to a bevy of talent this weekend in the second annual Saint Mary's College Invitational. 
In raising their season slate to 4-1, the Belles outperformed the Crusaders in almost every aspect of the match. 
Once again setting a winning ex­ample was senior co-captain Debbie Laverie who defeated Mary Nay, 6-4, 6-2, in their No.1 singles match, and continued her roll by teaming with sophomore Mary Carol Hall in No. 1 doubles to thwart Nay and partner Heidi Bussewitz by a 6-2, 6-3 score. Hall had earlier downed Bussewitz, 
Scorer 
continuedfrom page 20 

a stick on the ball even if it's going 
100 miles per hour." 

As one might expect, there is a certain amount of pressure felt by DiGiacomo as she comes offsuch an extraordinary season. She feels this might be affecting her play. 
"I am feeling pressure but Coach (lindenfeld) has been talking to me," DiGiacomo says. "I haven't played as well as last year so far. It's taken me a little longer to get my stuff together." 
Undenfeld also admits that the 
pressure on DiGiacomo may be 
hampering her play. The Irish coach, 
however, feels that she is getting 
TYPING 
.-Term Papers 
*Resumes •Letters 
•Manuscripts 
•Word Processing 
CaD Chris At: 
234-8997 

................................ 
STUDENTS: Are you sure you want to miss this? 
YOUNG ADULTS 
and 

ALCOHOL/SUBSTANCE ABUSE 
Discussion with Dr. Vann A. Smith 
Clinical Neuropsychologist at Parkside Lodge, Mundelein, Illinois 
Tuesday, October 2 at 8 p.m. Library Auditorium 
SPONSORED BY: University of Notre Dame Coanseling & Psyc:hologic:al Services Center 
"Take a study break and come listen,, 
·····················~········ 
6-3, 6-2! in their No.2 singles match­up. 
Sophomore Caroline Zero, whose play especially pleased Killeen, registered a convincing 6-1, 6-0 vic­tory over Cindy West at No. 3 singles and teamed with senior Renee Yung at No.2 doubles for a 6-3, 6-0 victory over West and teammate Mary Kas­telil. Yung dealt a 6-0, 6-0 drubbing to to Debbie Kirschbaum in their No. 5 singles match. 
At No. 4 singles, freshman Susie Craig continued her winning ways with a 6-0, 6-1 defeat of Kastelil, while junior Kim Kaegi convinc­ingly topped Kathy Busack, 6-2, 6-0, in their No. 6 contest. 
Senior Karie Casey and freshman Kate McDevitt completed a Saint Mary's sweep from their No. 3 doubles position, scoring a 6-0, 7-6 victory over Busack and Kirschbaum. The improved play of Casey and McDevitt particularly 
used to it. 

"She is feeling pressure," says lin­denfeld. "I think it causes her to be a little more excitable in front of the circle, but she's gotten better and has calmed down." 
lindenfeld has been helping DiGiacomo learn to cope with the pressure to score. 
"I try to point out that every time the ball comes near, she gets too excited and swings wildly," says the first-year coach. "We're trying to work on her poise." 
DiGiacomo, though slightly disap­pointed in her play so far this year, is optimistic about the future. 
"I've gotten more confident in the last two games. Hopefully, I'll keep improving," DiGiacomo says. 
DiGiacomo, who will be in action this weekend as the Irish host the 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $~000 11 month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join their company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate· College Program. And under It, you'll not only get great pay during yourjunior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring. in math, engineering or physical science, find out more today. And letyourcareer pay off while still in college. For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: CALL TOLL FREE 1 -800 -382 -9782 Navy Repr'l!sentative will be on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement 0Hice 
pleased Killeen. 
This weekend's tournament ac­tion is expected to be a real spec­tator's special as there will be 15 matches played simultaneously at the Leeper Park facility located just south of the Saint Joseph river on U.S. 31. 
"It it just a beautiful facility, and with 1 5 courts going all at once it should be great weekend for anyone who enjoys tennis," commented Kil­leen. 
An upgraded field of competitors should complicate the Belles' quest to match or better last season's respectable third-place finish. 
Last year's tournament champion, University of Toledo, leads a very talented eight-school field of which Saint Mary's and DePauw University are the only NAJA representatives competing against six very competi­tive NCAA teams. 
Bowling Green State University, 

Notre Dame Tri-meet, is looking for­ward to the rest ofthe season. 
"We're playing a lot tougher teams than last year, but we're playing up to their caliber," com­ments DiGiacomo. "Our schedule gets tough in October, so I hope these games we're playing now get us ready." 
With all of pressure that seems to be on Corinne DiGiacomo, one might ask why she would want to keep playing. Because, the young Irish star says, "I love it." 
Ralph A. Casperson Books 
THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS ON All SUB.IECTS -WE BUY USED BOOKS­
HOURS: 
Wed., Sat. • Sun. 9 a.m.-7 p.m. or by appointment 
lie! N.._._.._. 114. NU.. 683-2888 


A DRAMATIC NEW CONCEPl JN SUN TANNING! 
Preserve your tan with our NEW tanning bed 
TAN-HAWAfAN 
sun tonnr'Q solen 
2n-1026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 
which placed second last year, also 
returns to challenge for the champi­
onship while Ball State University, 
which enters the tournament for the 
first year, must also be considered a 
favorite. 
Already credited with a defeat ofa strong Butler squad, Xavier Univer­sity could be in the running, as could DePauw which is participating in the NAJA for its first season although it had in past years been considered one ofthe top NCAA Division III ten­nis teams in Indiana. 
Marquette University, which enters the tournament for its first time, is always a contender, and DePaul University could be a sleeper with its individual talent. 
"Ifyou can play and survive in this kind of competition at a place like Saint Mary's, it says something about your program," said Killeen. "These schools will be good competition for us, and I am hoping to finish in the top-half of the tournament -the higher the better." 
Killeen describes Laverie, Hall, Zero and Casey as "veterans" of this calibre of competition and expects them to anchor the doubles teams which are expected to face some talented opponents. As for singles play he believes the ladies can hold 
their own ifthey play up to their po­
tential. 
"We play big schools so that we are pressed, so that we can see where we are making our mistakes and try to correct them in a pressure situation," stated Killeen. "In some matches we are not going to be the favorite, but on the other hand we can probably beat some of these people." 
Eight flights are scheduled for the weekend with a separate draw for each flight, therefore, elimination from the tournament is impossible short ofwithdrawal. 
One round ofsingles play and two of doubles are scheduled for Satur­day while an opposite arrangement is on tap for Sunday. With this set-up an individual could conceivably play a staggering six matches during the two-day tournament. 
Killeen really does not know what to expect from his ladies as this is their "first big test" of the season, but he is realistically optimistic. 
For tennis diehards, Leeper Park should prove irresistable this weekend as tournament action is scheduled to begin at 11 a.m. Satur­day and at 9 a.m. Sunday. 


DARBY'S PLACE 
For Late Night
STUDY SNACKS 
in the 

BASEMENT 
of iA FORTUNE 



*********************************** 
~ BONFIRE i j AND t : FIREWORKS i 
~ .~ 
. ~ : ~
•~ Saturday Night, Sept. 29 •• : at WHITE FIELD • 
:BONFIRE-8:30 FIREWORKS-9:30 : : (over $1000 worth ofthem!) : 
f Part of FaD Festival : : SPONSORED BY: STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD : 
*********************************** 
---~--~---.------------------~ -----~

Sports Briefs 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Monday through Friday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune~ Briefs must be written clearly. -7be Observer 
The off-campus hockeyteamwill be meeting from 1.2 p.m. to I p.m. today at the ACC. Team members should bring their skates. -Tbe Observer 
Notre Dame/South Carolina football tickets are on sale now at gate I 0 ofthe ACC. 'lhe tickets are $I6 each. · Tbe Observer 
Abadminton tournamentis being!leld by NVA. Singles and d!>Ubles entries for the double-elimination tournament will be accepted at the NVA office until Wednesday, October 3. · 7be 
Observer 

A beginners archery clinic will be sponsored by NVAon October 8, 9 and II from 4: I 5 p.m. to 5:30p.m. each day. Deadline to register in person at the NVA office Is October 5. · 7be 
Observer 

Steelcase is looking for business, marketing, engmeering or any Information sysle'1JS graduates whose v1s1on exceeds the hor1zon. We manufacture and market quality office furn1ture worldw1de. and can otter 
you a reward1ng tomorrow 
" ... A man's reach should exceed his gras.p, or what'!i 
a heaven for?" 
Steelcase interviews: October 19, 1984 
Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 17 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables at Edwardsburg, Mich. will be sponsored by NVAon Sunday, October 7. Rides will be at I p.m., 2:30p.m., 4 p.m. and 5:30p.m. The charge for transportation and 50-to 60-minute rides is 55. Times must be reserved in person at the NVA office by October 3. -The Observer 
The ND women's cross-country team will compete at home this weekend, as the Irish play host for the National Catholic Invitational today. The race will start at 3 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. -7be Observer 
The ND Ultimate Frisbee Club will have practice today at 3:30p.m. and Sunday at noon. Players are to meet in front of Stepan Center. For more information, call I 588. -Tbe Observer 
A freshman swimming meetfor men and WO· men will be held Wednesday, October 10, at 7 p.m. Hall reps must turn in a list of entries to Coach Stark the day before the meet at the Rockne Building. Divers must submit a list of dives to Stark before the meet. For more information, call 239-7042.-Tbe Observer 
--F.OBERT '3ROWN NG 
Contact us al your placement office on the date shown below or write: Tim Bolema, College Placement. 
Steelcase 

World's leader in the manufactunng of offtce furniture. 
~­
Soccer 
continuedfrom page 20 
people as much a~ they've been playing." 
Grace does not intend to punish his players by limiting their playing time. Rather, he thinks that the players will work harder if they know they have to earn their time on the field. "I'm going to explain to them why they're not getting the playing time they have gotten in the past," the coach says. "If they are true athletes, and they're willing to sacrifice to work back into the lineup, then they will." 
Certainly, Grace ha~ delivered quite a challenge to the Irish, but he fully believes that the team is capa­ble of proving Itself worthy of that challenge. He says that the players simply need more confidence in their ability. 
"We've got a great deal of confu­sion on our part," he says, "as to really how good we are. I think ifyou ask 20 of the boys, 'How good are you?' I think you'd get 20 different levels, from, 'very good' to 'oh, we're okay.' I don't think that these boys recognize how good they are." 
So far this season, the Irish have not won a game by more than four goals, and six of their nine games have finished with a margin of one point or less. This weekend, Notre Dame has a chance to change those statistics, since the competition is some of the least challenging on the Irish schedule. 
Notre Dame holds a 4-0 advantage in the series with DePaul, and the Blue Demons have been unable to score against the Irish in any ofthose four games, while the Irish have knocked. in 22 goals. 
Saint joseph's has been defeated by Notre Dame in all 12 of the two teams' meetings. The Irish hold an 83-2 edge in scoring over the Pumas. 
Of course, Notre Dame failed to win in Wednesday's game, despite a similar history in the series with Loyola. Irish tri-captain Dominick Driano points out the things he thinks the team will have to do dif­ferently this weekend. 
"It's so important that we score first in these games," Driano says. "It always comes down to putting pres­sure on the same people: the for­wards. They have to perform; they have to put the ball in the net. You can't win a game by playing good defense; you have to score. 
Drlano says he thinks the Irish will be able to benefit from the tie with Loyola. 
"We have to do better," he says. "I don't think we need a loss to bring ourselves around to the fact that we've got to play better ball. I think the tie with Loyola will do it." 
Notre Dame will have to work relatively hard to play better ball, be­cause the team ha~ to overcome the loss of some players to Injuries. Junior midfielder Mark Bidinger and freshman fullback Steve Lowney still are out with injuries sustained in the last two weeks. 
In addition, several active players are not playing up to their full poten­tial, including midfielder Chris Telk and forward tri-captain Richard Her­degen. 
Grace, however, Is not very worried about his team's health at this point. 
"There were very few injuries (Wednesday night), physically," Grace said, "but we may have suf­fered our worst injury mentally. The kids were bummin'. They knew that there Is no way a team like Loyola should be able to escape the jaws of defeat. 
"Ifwe use it as a learning tool,"the coach said, "and we gain an under­standing ofwhat we have to do to be successful, that's fine. I can live with 

j
that." Last week the Irish dropped a 

•
notch in the regional rankings from number seven to number eight, and success this weekend is vital ifNotre Dame is to remain in the top ten. 
Surely, Grace can live with that. 


The Observer Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 18 
Notre Dame women become serious about flag football 
By MARY SIEGER is balanced offensively and Lewis passed its first test of the Farley's season record improved season as the squad shut out Badin, Sports Writer defensively, and we'll see them again season with flying colors last night, to 1-1 last night as it defeated Lyons, 34-0, giving P. W. a 1-1 record. Team in the playoffs." defeating Walsh, 20-7. Walsh led 20-0. After losing to P.E. 8-0 on Sun­captain Ann Rohling claims Sunday's 
Notre Dame women are serious Although Judd lost three players Lewis going into the half, but Lewis day, last night's victory will spark loss to B.P. was only a minor setback about football, especially the ones to injury, he is confident P.E. will turned the game around as both the confidence on the team besides en­for her team. participating in interhall flag foot­retain its championship title. Senior offensive and defensive line hancing its chances for a spot in the "It's bad to take a loss on the first ball. Rivalries growing between Kathy Murphy required arm surgery tightened its play. November playoffs. game," she said. "But I'm pretty various dorms promise to produce after Tuesday's game and is not ex­"The offense and defense got over "We put it all together (last confident we'll make the playoffs." some emotionally charged games pected to return to the line-up this their jitters," said Lewis captain night)," said Farley captain Judy Fen­Badin's record now stands at 0-2, this season. season. Janeen Olds ofthe comeback. "They lon. "We executed well and didn't but captain Maureen Connelly says 
After the first week of competi­Tuesday's loss caused B.P.'s started getting hit and realized give them many chances. I think we her team is improving. In last night's tion, Pasquerilla East is striving to record to slip to 1-1 after it had they'd have to hit back." can beat P.E. if we keep playing like game, she was "impressed by their retain its championship title. Tues­defeated Pasquerilla West, 20-8, last Last night's victory improved this." quickness, but we looked sharper day night's game on Cartier Field Sunday. Lewis' record to 2-0 and will Farley has several freshmen on its than we ever did in the past." was a rematch of last year's champi­"The loss was a disappointment," generate spirit on the team as it ap­squad this season and Fenlon Developing experience and unity onship match between P.E. and said B.P. captain Katie Dono_hoe. proaches two crucial games against suspects the team could have played is on Badin's season agenda, and the Breen-Phillips. This time P.E. "We would have liked to have come Farley and B.P. next week. a better game against P.E. than it did team is gearing toward its October 4 defeated B.P., 6-0, in triple overtime. out and won, but we have to be "The ne·xt two games are the ones on Sunday. contest against Lyons. 
B.P. 
began marching down the proud of the way we played." we're lookingforward to," says Olds, Earlier this week, Lyons forfeited "It's the one with the most rivalry field in the closing minutes of the B.P.'s primary goal ofthe season is "because they're consistently good to Lewis because of weather condi­and the one that will mean the most game and, as regulation time ended, to steal the championship from P.E. teams and they're more our rivals. tions. to the team," explains Connelly. 

B.P. 
was on P.E.'s one-yard line. The The team also plans to utilize its We'd like to win the championship, "We didn't want to see anyone get Action between Farley and Lewis stalemate continued until an option coaches and develop a football tradi­and it's more our goal this year be­hurt," explained Susan Hoelscher of will kick off this Sunday at 7 p.m. on run in the third overtime period by tion in the dorm. cause we've got more experience Lyons. "It's not worth risking Cartier Field. The contest between Jenhy Yule gave P.E. its second win "We won't let down for any than in the past." anyone's health." P.W. and Walsh will be held at 8 of the season. game," says Donohoe. "We're going On Sunday, Walsh blanked Badin, Hoelscher suspects the Lyons­p.m., followed by a game between 


"The girls just played their hearts to take it one game at a time, and that 21-0, giving Walsh its first win ofthe Lewis contest would have been a Badin and P.E. at 9 p.m. 
out," said P.E. coachJerryJudd. "B.P. will bring us to the championship." season. Walsh is looking forward to close game and hopes to see this While each of the women's flag its meeting with B.P. on October 11, year's season record improve. football teams hope to make the final and captain Dena Lordi anticipates a "We've got potential," she said. four this year, they all agree that the
•J SMC volleyball team fierce battle. "We'd like to win, but we want to main objective of the season isn't so "Our lines are incredible," Lordi have fun; that's our main goal." much winning as having a good
• says. "I think we can go all the way." P.W. earned its first win of the time.
tops Purdue-Calumet 
out ofeach division advancing to the
By KELLY PORTOLESE playoffs scheduled for later in the af­
Sports Writer 

ternoon. The championship game will then follow with an approxi­
The Saint Mary's volleyball team mate starting time of4:30p.m.
raised its record to 4-3 last night as it defeated the visiting Purdue­
Although all are tough opponents, Saint Mary's coach Brian Goralski
Calumet l.akers in three straight feels his team will be especially up
games, 1 5-12, 15-8, 15-12. for the third match ofthe day, which
Game one featured the return of pits fellow NAIA conference mem­
senior co-captain Ann Boutton, who turned in an outstanding perfor­
ber Manchester against the Belles. As opposed to quicker, shorter
mance in her first outing of the season. Her near perfect passes set 
Manchester teams of the past, this year's squad will feature a couple of
up some key offensive plays for the Belles. In addition, her solid block­
6-0 girls who could put the Saint ing kept the Purdue hitters off­
Mary's defense to the test up at the balance for most of the night. net. Sophomore Mary Reidy, who also 
Approaching the mid-season returned from the injury list, 
mark, Goralski is still juggling the combined with setters Anne Wil­
line-up as the players battle it out for liard and Mary Dilenschneider for 
more permanent assignments. At some nice plays to aid in the victory. present, freshmen Williard, Erin In game two, the consistent hustle Smith and sophomore and enthusiasm of the Belles carried Dilenschneider are all vying for two 
them to the 15-8 win. Boutton con­setter positions.Junior Rita Schuber, tributed seven service points and a fourth setter, is also a back row spe­freshman Kara Tekulve knocked 
cialist, and thus vital to the team's down two consecutive unretur­
defensive efforts. nable spikes to end the game. 
In searching for that winning At the onset of game three the 
combination Goralski is enjoying Belles ran up a 10-3 score, and it 
the depth this 1 984 squad possesses. looked as if Saint Mary's would run 
And with such an impressive field of away with the final game of the 
teams coming into town, Goralski match. The l.akers, however, dis­
has been working the Belles extra played excellent serving and their 
hard in practice this week, em­hitters keyed on open Saint Mary's phasizing strong, aggressive play. court on the way to outscoring their "Most (of the players) are not in­hosts9-2. timidated by the big hitters," 
With the score knotted at 12-12, comments Goralski. He said they Boutton rose to the occasion and have been "digging everything" and rallied off three kills and served two are continuing to improve on their 
points to carry the Belles to the blocking skills. match victory. Goralski, though, is not putting all Saint Mary's won't have much the importance in the win-loss time to savor this win, as it will column this weekend. quickly get another chance to show With freshmen and sophomores off its talent at full strength. The comprising almost three-fourths of Belles host their annual invitational the team, it certainly will be a young tournament tomorrow, with play team that Goralski fields tomorrow. beginning at 9 a.m. on all three But by playing schools with such courts at the Angela Athletic Facility. well-established volleyball teams, The eight participatigg teams will this weekend's tournament should be divided among two pools of four be a catalyst for the future of the teams each. with the top two teams Saint Mary's volleyball program. 
_____,

,.-----ON lltROSA~
p ~
Sit.hKHOUSt. 
t' 

I I 
' 
I I 
I San~!"ich $1s' I 
I I I I 
I I Fries and Pepsi I I 
Your choice of single Chopped I
I 

Steak or Fish Sandwich with french II fries and pepsi-cola. No carryouts, cannot be used with other dis-I
I 

Valid thru Sept. 30, 1984 counts. Tax not included. At partie-I \, U.S. 31 N (Next to No. Village Mall) !paling Steakhouses. Coupon , ~ c 1982 PONDEROSA. INC good for •ny P•rtv •lze. , 
~-------------------J 

O'NEAL· SHELLEY LONG ·DREW BARRYMORE DIFFERENCES" ALANTANA PRODUCTION WANAMAKER· ALLEN GARFIELD ·SHARON STONE 
DISTRIBUTED BY \WtNEA 1M)§ m 
A WARNER COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY® C 1$14 ..,.,..., 8ro1 In<: AIIRogl'lll"-­
OPENS AT THEATRES EVERYWHERE FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28TH 

']I['4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------F·r-id•a•y•,•Se•p•t•e•m•b•e•r•2•8•,•19•8•4----p-ag_e
__19_ 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 
;'T!lfl 71/f.'; EliTE!( ~W !?EUK<P: 
•HJWAKP t . .JONE~, 1/bE 36. He/6/fr 6FT !(At£...6li/CI<..soc. :itC. fl 003-15-'1003 ... seRIAL II 66-77-11'1-0 ... 






Tank McNamara jeffMillar & Bill Hinds 


Octavio 


The Far Side Gary Larson 
WHAT 1.S &OIAIC;J WIIAT MADe: OIJ HUE?P5)1';H YOIJ LOS'&: yoUR PULL youiiiS.I!:LF-I 1-!&:AJ> Lfi(E" TIIAT~ ""TOI!!II:Tl1f.R! NAAI. AlrE )I'OU ALCIE,IIT'? 


Campus 
•4 
p.m.-Cross Country, National Catholic Cham­pionship, Burke Golf Course. 

•4 
-5 p.m. -"Tertulla," LaFortune Main Lobby, Sponsored by Spanish Club, New Members Welcome. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Field Hockey, Hosting a Trl-meet, Gold Field, vs. East Michigan. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Machemadcal Colloquium, "Ultraproducts and Other Model-Theoretic Tools in the Theory of Banach Spaces," Prof. Ward Hen­son, University of Illinois, Urbana, Room 226 CCMB. 

•6 
p.m. -RCIA lnformadon Session, Community Sponsors, Ubrary Lounge, Sponsored by Office of University Ministry. 

•
7 p.m. -RCIA lnformadon Session, Preparation for Baptism & Full Communion, Ubrary Lounge, Sponsored by Office ofUniversity Ministry. •7, 9:15, 11:30p.m.-SABFllm, "Sudden Impact," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Jt.50. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Origins, Development & Prospectives of the Polish Crisis," Ambassador Zdzislaw Rurarz, Former Polish Ambassador to Japan, Carroll Hall, Sponsored byJustice Education & The Business Department. 

•7:30 
& 9:30 p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Confidentially Yours," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Soccer, ND vs. DePaul, Cartier Field. 

•8 
p.m. -lnformadon Session, Confirmation Preparation, Ubrary Lounge, Sponsored by Office ofUniversity Ministry. 

•9 
p.m. -1 a.m. -Video Dance, Video Showcase, Haggar College Center -SMC, Sponsored by Stu­dent Government. 


Saturday,Sept.29 

•8 
a.m. -Law School Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium. 

•9 
a.m. -AFROTC Aerobics Run, Cartier Field. 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Football, ND vs. Missouri at Columbia 

•2:30 
p.m. -Field Hockey, Hosting a Tri-meet, Gold Field, vs. Dayton. 

•6:30, 
9 & 11:30 p.m. -Fllm, "Footloose," Caroll Hall-SMC, Sponsored by LeMans Hall, Jl.SO. 

•8:30 
p.m. -Bonfire A Fireworks, White Field, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

Sunday, Sept. 30 


•1 
-4 p.m. -OpeningArt Exhibidon, Robert Ar­neson: Masks and Portraits, O'Shaughnessy Galleries, Snite Museum ofArt. 

•2 
p.m. ....:_ Soccer, ND vs. St. Joseph's/Renssalaer, Alumni Field. 

•4 
p.m. -Faculty Concert, !..aura Klugherz, ND, Violinist, Accompanied by William Cerny, ND, Pianist, Annenberg Auditorium. 



e DIRTY HARRY WEEK concludes e PAN<....INL, •••
FRIDAY Burgers
e tonight and tomorrow night: e 
Brolll
Happy Hour 6 -8 oog• 
LIVE BAND
• 
SPVNK 

Com~ dance to the Rock Sounds 
: 7:00 Engineering: from 10 · 2 e 9:15 Auditorium• FRESHMAN NIGHT! 9p.m. -2a.m.
.11:30 $1.50 • 
50 Figure of 55 David Is one

The Daily Crossword 
speech 56 Nuncupative 52 Boutonniere 57 Peru city setting 59 Skip

ACROSS 38 Fluff 67 Firm 13 Sped 53 U. of Maine site 62 Driver aid1 Earthy deposit 39 Fieldcall 68 Jazzman 16 Stay still and 54 Great Plains 63 Casey and No
5 Moselle feeder 40 Blackbird Fountain windward sight in brief9 Gordon of the 41 Burmese P.M. 69 Wild plum 22 Desdemona's 
comics once foe 14 Medley 42 Have dessert 24 Triton 15 Untainted 46 Give new life 26 Alight 16 Maul porch 48 Fashion DOWN 28 Mood 17 Teeming 49 Museum 1 Is glum 30 Calais concept 19 Tarsus hanging 2 Without help 31 Shore bird 20 Dlr. 51 Stock purchase 3 Reach maturity 32 Bowman 21 Press 55 Pillar 4 Gossett the William 22 Had a 58 Learning actor 33 Smear 
hankering method 5 Hardy 34 Gift of gab 23 Stage trumpet 60 Land measure 6 Self: pre!. 35 Weight 
sound 61 Chile por1 7 Fight site 36-Canals 25 Marble 62 Kind of store 8 Baron or Ryder 40 3500 to Cato 27 State for 64 Household 9 Aircraft carrier 42 Spar 
DeGaulle ladles 10 Surgeon's tool 43 Algerian port29 Swellhead 65 Buy -in a 11 Symbol of life 44 Film clip33 Hit the roof poke 12 Holiday 45 TV Eve 37 Forest creature 66 Descartes occasion 
47 Colorful bird ©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 




sponsored by: Freshman Year of Studies 

• NEXT WEEKEND: OCTOPUSSV • 

Friday, September 28, 1984 -page 20
S~orts 
•1am~------~--.e-------------------------------------­
Irish cross-country team plays host to National Catholic Meet today 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame cross-country team heads into today's National Catholic Meet as one ofthe favorites to finish first in the strong 23-team field. The Irish host the meet at the Burke Memorial Golf Course, with the Notre Dame women's team run­ning a 5,000-meter race at 3 p.m. and the men's five-mile race starting at 4 p.m. 
Notre Dame is expected to be a contender for the meet title. Of the remaining 22 teams in the men's event, Boston College, Marquette and St. John's are likely to provide the most competition for the Irish. According to Notre Dame coachJoe Piane, "The meet is up for grabs this year." 
Irish co-captain Bill Courtney feels the team will have many chal­lengers for the team title. 
"Marquette is a traditional rival and has three very tough runners. Boston College has five good ones and is really looking tough. St. John's is strong, but we're not quite sure about them," Courtney notes. 
Piane indicates that Holy Cross, Boston College and Marquette are likely to provide the most competi­tion for the Irish women's team. 
The Irish coach is the originator and the main force behind the Na­tional Catholic Meet. He started the event in 1980, and it has continued 
'. 

DePaul and St. Joseph's 
Soccer team home for two games 
ByPHILWOLF scoreless tie Wednesday night at AssistantSports Editor Loyola of Chicago. The Irish will have to play much better this 
Can a team be in a slump when it weekend ifthey are to be successful has a winning record of 6-1-2? For against DePaul and Saint Joseph's. Notre Dame soccer coach Dennis Notre Dame will play host to the
t 
Grace, the answer to that question is Blue Demons tonight unde1r the yes. lights ofCartier Field, and the Pumast 
Grace says he is very concerned will come to Alumni Field on Sunday about his team, which played to a afternoon. Tonight's game is sched-
Domer Six tomorrow 
By DENNIS P. CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 

The fourth-annual Domer Six-Mile Run takes place tomorrow morning at 11:00 with a field of 193 runners. Making its debut is the Domer Three-Mile Run, with 24 competitors. 
These events, sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics, are held "as a good way to combine the enjoyment ofrunning with the enjoyment of competing," says Sally Derengoski, coordinator of recreational services at NVA. 
"Standing next to each other in the same race are people who are entered simply because they enjoy running and people who are en­tered strictly to compete," Derongoski says. "The Domer Three was added for those people who are more casual runners." 
The course for tomorrow's six-mile race begins by the power plant and proceeds south to the Snite Museum of Art. It then turns west toward South Quad and runs behind the South Dining Hall to Burke Memorial Golf Course. The runners will circle the golfcourse and continue on to the lakes. The course makes a figure-eight around the lakes, and then returns to the power plant. 
The Domer Three omits the run around the golfcourse and only runs around St. Mary's Lake. 
The Red Cross will be on hand in case ofan emergency and water tables will be available at various points around the course. Mile markers with timers will be posted to record splits. 
The field of 193 for this year's Domer Six is larger than in previous years. Considering that this is the first year ofthe event, Derengoski is pleased with 24 entries in the Domer Three. 
Runners will compete in men's and women's divisions in three categories: students, faculty and staff. Trophies will be awarded to the first-place finisher in each of the six divisions. All those who finish the Domer Six will receive T-shirts, while all those finishing the Domer Three will receive visors. 
Last year's overall winner was Don Passenger, a graduate student who finished with a time of32:20. The top men's undergrad finisher was Jeff Westhouse, and the women's undergrad winner was Dava Newman. 
Registration for the Domer Three takes place from 9:30-9:45, with the gun sounding at 1 0:00. Registration for the Domer Six will be from 10:30-10:45, with an 11:00 start. 
,_­
to improve each year. Marquette captured the team championship the first three years, while Notre Dame ended the Warriors' string with an impressive victory last year. 
In last year's meet, Notre Dame was led to victory by a strongfourth­place finish from then-junior Tim Cannon in a time of 24:22.9. Graduated seniors Andy Dillon, Ralph Caron and Ed Juba folJlowed for the Irish with sixth, eighth and tenth-place finishes. 
Other Irish runners returning this year to defend the championship are Mike Collins, Jim Tyler and Bill Courtney, who finished 14th, 15th and 22nd, respectively, in last year's meet. 
One runner expected to chal­lenge for the individual title this year is Keith Hanson of Marquette. Han­son is only a junior, and should run as strong as last year when he won the race. 
Notre Dame is entering the meet in excellent shape. Two weeks ago, the Irish routed a five-team field of Missouri, Western Michigan, Ohio State and Northwestern. Piane says that all the runners are healthy and the team has had an excellent two weeks ofpractice. 
In talking about today's meet, Courtney expressed a great dleal of optimism about the Irishdoing well. 
"I'm really confident and looking for big things," says the senior co­captain. "We're well rested after a 
week otlf and good practices this week have given us confidence."· CoUJrtney outlined what the team has to do to win the meet. 
"We have to get five guys under 25 minutes," he said. "I think we can get our top seven under 25 and our top five under 24:50. In cross country, you need five good times to score well." 
The men's race will have two divi­sions: a university division with 12 and a college division with 11 teams. All 23 teams, however, will run the five-mile course together. 
Piane explains that the reason for splitting the teams into two divi­sions, while running them simulta­neously, is to give the colleges a chance to see how they do against a university like Notre Dame, while also competing against schools of their own talent. 
Teams will be ranked according to their division, and overall places will be determined. 
Expected to challenge for the college-division crown is St. Thomas ofSt. Paul, Minn. 
Piane feels it doesn't really matter what he or anyone else predicts about the outcome ofthe meet. 
He says, "It's up to the runners now. All that matters is what they believe, and right now (mine are) confident." 
Piane is hoping that the same level of confidence is present with his runners after today's meet. 
uled to begin at 8 p.m., and Sunday's match will start at 2 p.m. 
The Irish had a 5-0 record in the series against Loyola going into Wednesday's game, and they had outscored the Ramblers, 25-2, over the last five years. Poor play throughout the game and a lack of intensity on Notre Dame's part, however, allowed the Ramblers to escape with the tie. 
Grace did not attempt to conceal his displeasure with the tie against the Ramblers. He said one reason for Notre Dame's lack ofaggressiveness may have been the fact that the Irish rolled over the Ramblers, 5-0, las't spring. However, Grace assumed much of the responsibility for the team's attitude. 
"Before the game, I sensed that we weren't ready," he said, "so I took them into a classroom, sat them down and told them ofmy concerns. I don't know that I told them with enough emphasis." 
Grace also said that he saw prob­lems with the attitudes of some of the Notre Dame players, although he did not mention anyone by name. 
"I d1ink we have a lot ofpeople on this team who are very happy and very e:xcited to be with the soccer program at the University of Notre Dame," Grace said. "However, I don't know how many people we have who are willing to pay the price to wear that title. We have some people that are confused about the amount ofdedication, the amount of devotion that they have to give to the team, and that's one thing we have to straighten out." 
The Irish coach already has come up with a plan to try to bring his players around to the right attitude, and many members of the team may be surprised to find themselves playing less this weekend than they are accustomed to. 
"We're going to do something I should lh.ave done earlier," Grace says. "We're not going to play some 
se•e SOCCER, page 17 

The Notre Damefield hockey team faces an important weekend as itplays host to a tri-meet also involving Eastern Michigan and Dayton. Sophomore Corinne DiGiacomo will be heavily counted on tocarrythelrishscoring loadin their twogames. More informa­tion on DiGiacomo and her teammates can be found in the two stories below. 
The big weekend 
Irish field hockey team hosts tri -meet 
ByJOliN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
This weekend is an important one for the Notre Dame field hockey team. The Irish will be hosting the Notre Dame Tri-meet, which will involve three very talented squads. 
The action starts today when Eastern Michigan and Notre Dame meet head-to-head at 4 p.m., and will continue when Dayton and Eastern Michigan square off early tomorrow. The big weekend will end with the Irish taking on Dayton, also tomorrow, beginning at 4 p.m. 
The tri-meet will be the first real test of the season for the Irish. Notre Dame has not played Eastern Michigan since 1978 when it won 1-0, but the rivalry with Dayton is a little more recent. The Irish ended their season last year bylosing to the Flyers, 1-0, in the Dayton Invitational. 
On offense, Notre Dame will be counting on sophomore Corinne DiGiacomo to spearhead the attack from her front-line position. Sup­porting DiGiacomo will be senior libby Mohrmann at the link posi­tion. 
Trying to set up goals will be juniors Molly McCabe and Melissa Sommers. These two are also quite capable ofscoring goals on their own. 
Ifdefense wins games, as most believe, then the Irish should be successful this weekend. Tending the net will be consistent junior Patti Gallagher. Halfbacks Mary Rose Rodgers and Chri~tina Wein­mann, both juniors, will try to prevent opponents from mounting any kind ofscoring drive. 
First-year head coach Jill Lindenfeld hopes for another winning season after last year's 11-9-2 record. While Undenfeld wants to win, she is quick to point out that it is not her only objective. 
"We also want to have fun and enjoy the sport of field hockey," stresses the Irish coach. Two victories this weekend would ensure both fun and success. 

·oiacomo feels pressure to epeat record-breaking year 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
How does one top a year in which, as a freshman, you lead the field hockey team in scoring with 18 goals and break the freshman single­season scoring record at Notre Dame? That is the question facing Corinne DiGiacomo as she enters the 1984 season. 
DiGiacomo, a sophomore who plays the left inside position, doesn't seem to be worried about surpassing last year. She is more concerned about the Irish team than about herself. 
"Last year we didn't play many Division I teams; this year we're playing a lot," DiGiacomo says. "I just hope that we can play well." Jill lindenfeld, head coach of the Irish, agrees that DiGiacomo shouldn't worry about scoring 18 goals again. 
"Last year was totally unexpected. It's unreasonable to ask her to do the same or better this year," says Lindenfeld. "All I ask is for her to do her best and to do what it takes to help the team win. She doesn't have to break the (scoring) record to do that." 
Lindenfeld feels DiGiacomo is a vital part ofthe Notre Dame team. She has much to say about her strengths and abilities, believing that DiGiacomo is always a scoring threat. 
"She's good at finding other players and getting the pass to them," says Lindenfeld. "She's got great hand-eye coordination. She can get see SCORER, page 16 





