Lil' Sibs-page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 4.l tltt· IIHkpcndnll ~tutknt lll'\\~p.tpcr ~en 1ng 1H1tn dame and ~.tint lll.tr~ ·~ THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1984 

Board of Regents opens fall meeting 
By THERESA GUARINO Tomorrow the board will meet AsslslaTII Neu'S lid/lor from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in LeMans Hall. 
Orkntation for new members is The Board of Regents consists of one item on tht· agenda as Saint 30 members. As a rule, one-third of Mary'), Board of Regents meets today the regents must be members of the and tomorrow for their annual fall Holy Cross Congregation, one must mn·ting. 'lht· board meets in full be a faculty member, one is the stu­twin· a year, once each st·mester. dent regent, and one must be the 
nu· four new regt·nts include this president of the alumni board. Col­year's studt·nt regent, senior Sue lege President John Duggan par­Simonaitis. Having a student on the ticipates as an ex officio member. board each year is a requirement. 'Inc Board of Regents is the 
The approval of the College's new official governing body of the Col­governance manual, the report of lege. They are responsible for and eat·h standing committee, proposed must approve new departments and guidelines for the 1985-86 budget, a degree programs, the capital and review of la.~t year's audit, and a operating budgets of the College, pn·scntation on the proposed addi­tenure policies, salary and wage pro­tion and renovation to the science grams, academic honorary degrees, hall arc other topics to be discussed new senior officers, and all major this session. College pulicies. 
Today the new regents will attend The senior officers of the College meetings giving them an overview are Duggan; William Hickey, vice of College administration, including president and dean of faculty; Sister a presentation on student govern­Karol jackowskl, dean of students; ment by Studt•nt Body President Jason Lindower, controller and LcAnn Franks and Vice President for Lawrence Durance, vice president Student Affairs Ann Marie Kollman. for college relations. Only Duggan is 
Also today, the different commit­a regent and has a vote in board tees ofthe board will meet to discuss decision-making. and hear presentations, including the investment, student life, educa­New regents are sekcted each tion, and devdopment committees. year by the administrative members The entire board is invited to sit in of the corporation-seven sisters of on tht· finance and budget commit· the Holy Cross Congregation's Mid­ICC mt•cting. west order. 
WHC takes no funds from dining hall meals 
By SEAN PICKETT ular food, no appreciable amount of Nt'II'S Staff money was saved for a donation. "We have a budget to operate on. 
No money was donated to the Food Services has a labor and food 
World !Iunger Coalition as a result cost that needs to be maintained. To 
of the the special meal served in the donate money out of this budget 
dining halls Monday and Tuesday. would be bad for both the coalition 
'Inc meal, consisting of brown and us," Hickey said. 
rice, vegetable soup, bread and Hickey said, however, he 
salad, was mt·ant to be a typical meal cooperated fully with the WHC on 
in an underprivileged country. the implementation of the meal and 
According to William Hickey, on past WHC projects. The issue ofa 
director of Notre Dame Food donation was not originally con-
Services, although the menu ap­see HUNGER, page 5peared to be less expensive than reg-
JC plans to reorganize 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
Neu•sStaff 
Bill Bergamo, newly elected Judicial Council coordinator, 

Committee reorganization was the main topic of the meeting. Several different committees are worklng on a student rights manual, relations between rec­tors and judicial boards, special events and student legal services. 
Bergamo admitted it was "a little late to start these things, but we've had a few problems." He was presumably referring to the resignation last week ofjoe Zahn as coordinator and the conflicts preceding the resignation. 
Bergamo called last night's meeting "the first real meeting of the judicial Council." 
"One thing we're going to have to work on from now on is atten­dance," Bergamo said, referring to the small group that attended the meeting. Only I0 of24 dorms sent representatives. 

An Artist's Touch A student stops to admire the work ofan un­campus, and the artist spet~t most ofthe dayfinish­known painter yesterday in front of the Adminis­ing a number ofcanvas paintings ofthefall colors tration Building. It was a beautiful day to be on surrounding the dome. 

Reagan and Mondale plan strategy for Sunday foreign policy debate 
Associated Press victory, aides say. Reagan will spend ling the California Coalition of Wo­
a little less time in his debate prepa-men that "we're In a fight for equal 
President Reagan and Walter ration, according to White House opportunity." Mondale settled in yesterday for aides, in response to concerns that "We're in a fight to make this soci­four days ofintensive study for their he was "overbriefed" for the first ety more fair. It's not fair that one foreign policy debate and left cam­encounter. out of every two minority children paigning duties to their running The White House has arranged a lives in poverty. In fact it's a dis­mates on the West Coast, where campaign pep rally in Kansas City grace," she said. "If you're a woman Vice President George Bush called just prior to the debate. "It's got to or a minority or a senior citizen, the the latest Soviet overture "a positive pump you up," one aide said of the deck is stacked against you. It's time sign." rally effect on the president. to reshuffle the cards. It's time to 
As the countdown continued "I don't have to tell you what hap-change dealers." before the final presidential debate pens if the president performs brll-At the California State University Sunday night in Kansas City, Soviet liantly," said one Mondale aide, at Sacramento, she turned aside President Konstantin Chernenko speaklng only·on condition he not hecklers and told the youthful held out hope that superpower rela­be identified. "But if Mondale does crowd of 10,000 "don't bank on tions could improve if the United extremely well, we've got a dogfight empty promises" from the Republi-States shows interest in agreeing on for the last two weeks." can incumbent. at least one major arms control Both men plan to keep their Bush said the United States is still issue. schedules as free as possible for willing to negotiate with the Soviets 
"Where all of this will lead ... I debate preparation. Mondale can-and noted it was the Russians who don't know," Bush said in San Fran­celed out of the AI Smith dinner in walked out of nuclear arms control cisco. "'lbere is a new tone and I New York tonight; Reagan is still talks a year ago. He said, however, think it's a positive thing." scheduled to attend. the United States would not make 
Mondale and Reagan spent the Meanwhile, a new ABC News-unilateral conl·essions to lure the first part of the week exchanging Washington Post poll released la~t Soviets back to the negotiating table. criticism of each other's grasp of night gives Reagan a 12-point lead, world issues. Reagan said his Demo­S4 percent to 42 percent, compared In a statement issued in Wa'ihing­cratic opponent was "confused" to an 18-point margin in a similar ton, Mondale said the administration about Soviet intentions; Mondale poll taken before the Oct. 7 debate. must respond to the initiative, said the president had "naive and The poll, with a margin of error of j which he noted "as with any Soviet primitive notions" about national percent either way, surveyed I,SOS proposal, you have to look at the fine strength. registered voters by telephone Oct. print." 
Mondale is hoping that a second 12 to 16. "We have only one president at a strong performance against Reagan Mondale's running mate, time, and it is up to Mr. Reagan to in their final debate will "serve as a Geraldine Ferraro, stumped explore this proposal seriously and catalyst" for a last-minute surge to Reagan's home state yesterday, tel-determine Its significance." 

The Observer 
Thursday, October 18, 1984-page 2 


In Brief -College is an experience 
Beatrice Companies executive Harold Handley will be in South Bend today. Handley, senior vice president, director of marketing -US Food for Beatrice Companies, has been responsible for the development and implementation of the most extensive corporate advertising campaign in recent history -· "Beatrice, You've Known Us All Along." Beatric"e Companies, with $13 billion in annual sales, is the largest food company in the United States and the second largest in the world. Handley will discuss his advertising campaign this afternoon for the Saint Mary's College Col­legiate Chapter of the American Marketing Association on the campus, and this evening for the Professional Chapter ofthe Ameri­can Marketing Association at the Morris Park Country Club. -The Obseroer 
The founder ofthe FaithAssemblyreligi­ous sect was indicted yesterday by a Kosciusko County, Ind., grand jury on charges of aiding and inducing reckless homicide. Hobart Freeman, who founded the sect in the early 1960s, was also charged with aiding and inducing criminal recklessness and the neglect of a dependent. The indictment stemmed from an investigation into the death of a 15-year-old girl whose parents are members of the Faith Assembly, a faith-healing group that shuns medical treatment. Kos­ciusko County Coroner Gary Eastlund determined Pamela Margaret Menne died Sept. 16 of chronic kidney failure that "probably could have been prevented by treatment." -AP 
Regular work crews returned in force to Dis­neyland yesterday to end the longest walkout in the Magic Kingdom's history, after they settled for a contract that freezes wages for two years. And in Florida, unions representing at least 2,600 maintenance workers at Walt Disney World said yesterday they had reached a tentative contract agreement. The first of the park's 1,844 striking workers began reporting at 6:30a.m. and more ofthem arrived all day, Disneyland spokesman AI Flores said. He said no problems were expected. The workers have " known these jobs for years and there's no retraining involved," Flores noted. "The only thing they need to find out"is what their schedules are." -AP 

Of Interest 
North Dining Hall will serve its last meal before break at dinner tomorrow. South Dining Hall will serve its last meal before break at dinner Saturday. Both dining halls will resume nor­mal operating schedules for dinner Sunday, Oct. 28. The Oak Room Cafeteria will remain open through Fall Break, Sunday to Saturday from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. On Saturday, Oct. 20 the Huddle and Deli will close at 11 p.m. It will be open on Sunday, Oct. 21 from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. Monday, Oct. 22 thru Saturday, Oct. 27 this service will be open from 7:30 a.m. until 3:30 p.m. The Huddle and Deli will resume its regular hours Sunday, Oct. 28. -The Obseroer 
Collections for the United Way continue this week, and students who have not given may do so by seeing their section leader, hall president or dorm United Way representa­tive. Off-campus students may contribute today and tomorrow from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at the OBUD bar in LaFortune.-The Obseroer. 
Data communication will be the main focal point of a seminar to be presented by members ofthe department of elec­trical engineering faculty this afternoon at 3:30p.m. in Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. The presentations will be informative yet compre­hensible to the average individual. Topics will range from satellites to computer networks. The seminar is the first part in a three-part series sponsored by the Institute of Electronics and Electrical En­gineers and Eta Kappa Nu. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
Increasing cloudinesswith a 40 percent chance of thundershowers, mainly in the afternoon today. Mild with high around 65. A 60 percent chance of thun­derstorms tonight. Low around 50. Mostly sunny and cooler tomorrow. High around 60. ­
AP 



lbe Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer Is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for J30 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's Issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce Design Assistant .... Thomas Robert Small LayoutStaff.Caroline Belin, Mark Weln· 
holt . 
Typesetters Jennifer Lynn Bigot!, Kathryn 
Humm, Thomas Robert Small 
News Editor .......... Theresa Anne Guarino Copy Editor ... Keith Edward Harrison, Jr. Sports Copy Editor Marc Antony Ramirez VIewpoint Layout .............. Byron Stevens Features Copy Editor ....... Marikris Dalum Features Layout..................... Sharon Houk ND Day Editor .......................... Mariam Hill SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design .........................................Suzanne Pbotograpber .......................... Paul Kramer 

for both mother and son 
Let me take you back three years. I am a freshman at 
Notre Dame. It is a Sunday morning after the first foot­
ball game. At 9:30a.m., the telephone rings. 
After I peel myself off the ceiling, I reach for the 
phone, cursing the fool who called me so early. 
"Peter. .is that you?" It took a while, but I finally 
recognized my mother's voice. 

Mom broke freshman rule number one: don't call your freshman before noon on weekends. From that moment on I knew my mother had a lot to learn about college life. And since I am the first and only one in my family to attend college, it was up to me to teach her. 
Because Notre Dame was a noted sports college, one 
of my first tasks was to teach Mom something about 
sports. 

Throughout that first football season, Mom marveled 
at exciting aspects of a Notre Dame football game. But 
Mom's idea ofan exciting game seldom had anything to 
do with the game itself. The band, the fans, and even the 
Gooodyear blimp held her 
attention more than trivial 
things like the final score. 
Mom also had a lot of questions about the finer points. of the game. "Why do they throw those little yel­low flags?" she would ask me, or "Why do they all of the sudden stop playing and kick the ball?" Both very tricky questions. 
Now, after two-and-a-half years, Mom is a seasoned viewer, and her questions are even tougher. Now she asks me what went wrong this week. 

As big a challenge as foot­ball presented, basketball was even tougher. Since the action is much quicker in basketball, it took Mom a long time to pick up the subtleties of the game -like how teams score points. 
"Why do they blow the whistle so much?" and "Why do some players get to throw the ball while everyone else watches?" she would ask. 
I've patiently tried to deal with Mom's questions, and although she still doesn't fully understand the game, she has shown some improvement. At least now she knows that we get two points almost every time the ball goes through the hoop. Good work, Mom. 
College social life also presented Mom with some problems. Yes Mom, we do have parties, with girls and everything! 
Also, Mom had trouble with my rather odd sleeping habits during the week. "What do you mean you didn't get to sleep until 4 a.m.?" 
"Well, Mom there was this 10 page paper and..." 
Since I've been at college, my relationship with my 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

How you live may save your life. 

Pete Laches 
Photo Editor 
Inside Thursday 

mother has taken on a new character. It has evolved from one of simply mother and son into a true friendship, where each ofus learns from the other. 
Whereas when I first arrived on campus, it was always Mom who called me and worried if I wasn't around, now I actually call her once in a while. And if she's not there I sometimes worry. 
Once I had to call Mom with some urgent news. I tried unsuccessfully to reach her until well past mid­night, when I finally went to sleep. As soon as I woke up, 
I called and asked her where she had been all night. 
She gave a weaker excuse than I'd dare to offer after a such a blatant curfew viola­
\.=~==~ tion. She told me she was at a parish council meeting until 
2:30 a.m. Sometimes Mom ' acts like I was born yester­
01!!"!!!!!"~, 
1,;;"It;~~ day.
lr Now whenever ever I'm out late, I always tell Mom I was at a parish council meeting. 
While at home I took Mom for granted. She was al­ways there to offer 'sound financial advice' and a ride home. Now there are 711 miles between us and I have to make do without her 
help. 
Although New Jersey, Pennsylvania and hours of ex­citing Ohio landscapes separate us, in some ways we are closer than ever. Our weekly conversations are more mutual advice sessions than typical mother-son con­
versations. 
We share more than our weekly experiences: we ask each other for advice on everything from me asking her how to do laundry, to her asking me if I think a certain stock sounds like a good investment. My, how times have changed. 
Before I left home not only did I take Mom for granted, I also treated her like she was born yesterday, and I was Mr. Know-it-all on my way to college. How wrong I was. 
I guess Mom and I have both learned a lot from my college experience. 


Need LSU Tix Call collect eves. 504·291-0642 


TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

Call Chris at: 
234-8997 






House Intelligence Committee criticizes manual 
The Observer 
Lil' Sibs passes CLC, await Tyson's decision 
By BRIAN RAK 
Nerl•s Stuff 
A proposal to hold Lil' Sibs Weekend again this spring passed hy a narrow margin at last night's meeting ofthe Campus Life Council. 
It is now up to Vice President of Student Affairs Father David Tyson to approve or reject the proposal. 
Avote of I I to 5 gave the proposal the two-thirds plus one majority needed to pass. 'lbe proposal had been tabled at a Sept. 26 CLC meeting pending prt•sentation to a group of rectors. 
On Oct.ti, I 0 rectors met to listen to a presentation of the proposal hy committee chairmen joanne Mad­den and Steve Taeyaerts. 
Student Body President Rob Ber­tino will now notify Tyson, who will have seven days to approve or reject the proposal. 
"Tyson has already stated that he will not approve the proposal if it docs not have have the approval of the rectors," said Bertino. 
A8soclated Press 
WASHINGTON-lbc House Intel­ligence Committee chairman last night denounced a CIA manual produced for Nicaraguan rebels as "repugnant" and a "disaster for U.S. foreign policy." 
In a scathing statement, Rep. Ed­ward Boland, D-Mass., panel chair­man, condemned the 90-page psychological warfare manual as a "document (that) should never have been produced hy any element of the llnitt·d States government." 
lbe manual advises U.S.-hacked Nicaraguan rebels that some officials of the nation's leftist government can he "neutralized" with the "selective use of violence" and recommends the hiring of profes-
ELECTRICAL 


ENGINEERS· 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS, CHEMICAL ENGINEERS, PHYSICISTS 
Our recruiter will be visiting your campus on October 30 
Contact the job placement office for interview times and appointments. 

Judge the patentability of scientific and engineering discoveries made by R & D engineers. inventors and scientists world-wide as a 
PATENT EXAMINER 
in Washington. D.C. 

The Patent and Trademark Office has unique career opportunities oifering • Challenge and responsibility • Career growth • Outstanding career Federal Government service benefits 
For more information about your career as a Patent Examiner contact: 
Manager. College Relations Office of Personnel Patent and Trademark Office Washmgton. D. C. 20231 
Call toll-free 800-368-3064 

(703) 557-3631 (Collect in VA) An Equal Opporturnty Employer mlf • US. Citrzenship Required 
sional  criminals  to  carry  out  
"selective jobs."  
A copy of the  manual  was  ob­ 

tained hy the Associated Press. Boland said the House Intelligence Committee had been unaware of its existence prior to theAP's supplying a copy to the panel on Oct. I. 
In a report Monday, theAP, citing inteligence sources, said the manual was produced by the CIA. 
In a letter to Rep. Thomas Downey, 0-N.Y., who had called for a congressional probe, Boland con­firmed that the manual was prepared by the CIA and was given to the Nicaraguan rebels, known as con­tras, last year. 
"lbe committee was unware of the document until it was obtained by the Associated Press," Boland 
Bertino said many rectors had "had impressions" of the Lil' Sibs Weekend held two years ago. He said, however, as a result of letters and and information sent to the rec­tors, as well as the Oct. 8 presenta­tion, many rectors are now open to the possibility of Lil' Sibs Weekend. 
Bertino said posting more secur­ity guards in the residence halls for that weekend and adhering to care­ful registration procedures are two ways of rectifying problems that oc­curred during the last Lil' Sibs Weekend. 
"I hope that in making his deci­sion Father Tyson will seek input from many of the rectors. We've changed a lot of attitudes," Bertino said. 
"'Ibis is a good opportunity for the administration to show confidence in the student decision-making process," said Bertino. "If Tyson turns it down I'll be extremely disap­pointed." 

Thursday, October 18, 1984-page 3 

Yesterday was Arts and Letters Career Place­opportunities. At left, fifth year architecture stu­ment Day" in Chatauqua, and various companies dentjody Pitchford asks questions oftwo represen­sent representatives to talk to students about job tatives from the IBM plmlt in Fishkill, NY. 
said. "Since that time, the committee staff has been exploring with the CIA the reasons for its prod4ction and distribution. That investigation is not yet complete." 
Boland, using his toughest lan­guage to date in attacking CIA covert support for the rebels, said "the document should never have been produced hy any element of the United States government. It espouses the doctrine of Lenin, not Jefferson. 
"It embraces the commumst revolutionary tactics the United States has pledged to defeat through­out the world. Its emphasis on deceiving the populace makes a· mockery ofAmerican championship ofdemocratic values." 
The manual suggests arranging a violent demonstration that will lead to the death of one or more rebel supporters and the creation of a "martyr." It also instructs the rebels in how to coerce Nicaraguans into carrying out assignments against their will. 
In his letter, Boland said the manual "offers proof (that) the se­cret war in Nicaragua is not directed against Sandinista arms shipments (to) Salvadoran guerrillas. The war is an effort to overthrow the Sandi­nistas," Nicaragua's leftist ruling group. 
"Administration officials have al­ways denied this, but the manual clearly adopts the contras avowed aim of deposing the government in Managua. Further, the • manual reveals both the conscious targeting ofindividuals for 'neutralization' and a disregard for the safety ofinnocent citizens in demonstrations that is repugnant to a nation that con-
Senior Class Cocktail Party 
Thursday, October 18 9pm-1am ACC Monogram Room $3.00 admission at the door Semi-formal Attire 
DJ, Dancing, Food, 9-llpmfree drinks 
21 ID Required 

demns such acts in others," Boland said. 
Boland also compared the manual to CIA-directed mining of Nicaragua's harbors early this year. 
"l.ike the mining of Nicaragua's harbors, the manual was not revealed to the committee until after the fact, and then only after the committee asked about it .... Like the mining, the manual is a disaster for 
U.S. foreign policy." 

Yesterday, administration officials continued to refuse comment on reports about the manual, and Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., vice chairman of the Senate Intelli­gence Committee, told the CIA to explain the manual to that panel by the end of the week. 
CIA spokeswoman Patti Volz said yesterday the agency still had no comment on the report and the State Department refused to answer ques­tions about it. 
, 

The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1984 -page 4 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT SUPPORTS: 

to fire . up the fighting irish I 

JOIN THE MARCH TO THE INFERNO AT WHITE FIELD 
WHEN: 9 p.DI. TONIGHT WHERE: MAIN CIRCLE WHY: WHY NOT?? 
The procession willstop at each dorm along the way to pick up FightingIrish Fans 

Let's Get Fired Up
and 


Rekindle the Spirit 
The Observer 


Lake lounging 
Two lone students relax next to St. Mary's Lake yesterday afternoon. After over a week ofgloomy, rainy weather, many students were glad to have the 
The Observer/Paul Kramer 

opportunity to get outside again. Hopefully, the sunny fall weather will continue through Satur­day's football game against South Carolina. 
PIEDMONT'S 50%0FFCOLLEGE FARE. 
Face it,your learning years are not your prime earning years. But don't let that stop you from moving off campus. 
Through February 28,1985,you can fly anywhere Piedmont flies for halffare.To LA and NewYork. And to all kinds of hot spots and hometowns in between. 
What's the catch?Well,you must be under 26andhave avalid studentID.Read thefine print below for restrictions. Piedmont's 50%Off College Fare.More proof that our commitment to higher education is not just a lofty ideal. 

-LP/EDHTDDTH,NL/DES 
Non-n:finulahl!!, rcnnul-trifJ tickct.1 TrilLIt h!! fntrciuLII!J at le,N SI!H.'T1 days he[<Jrl! trcwel. Not amilahle all dity Fridity or Swulay after 1:oo fnn. Holiduy mad re.1trictiom a{l(Jly. Call your mwel agent or us at I-Boo-zJI-5720. 
Thursday, October 18, 1 984 -page 5 
Mondale physically fit, according to physician 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Walter Mondale suffers from tennis elbow and moderately high blood pressure ­controlled by daily medication -but is otherwise in excellent health, ac­cording to his doctor for 20 years. 
"I can only describe him as bouncy," Dr. Milton Hurwitz said. "He looks great and he feels good." 
Since the first presidential debate Oct. 7, President Reagan's age and health have become an issue in the campaign, and the White House has released extensive information seeking to demonstrate that the president is a vigorous, capable and mentally alert 73-year-old man. 
Similarly, Hurwitz said in an inter­view that there are no physical limitations on the 56-year-old Mondale's ability to serve in the White House. 
Hurwitz said that since 1971, like millions of other Americans, Mondale has taken various combina­tions of drugs designed to keep his blood pressure in the normal range. The current combination consists of atenolol, dyazide and hydralazine. 
Occasionally such drugs cause changes in mood in a patient, mainly depression, but Hurwitz said that is 

Hunger 
continuedfrom page 1 
nected with the WHC meal request, and could not be allowed, according to Hickey. 
The coalition understands that money could not be donated and "is supportive of Food Services'" aid in World Hunger Day, said WHC Presi­dent Mark Storen. 
"World Hunger Day and Notre Dame's participation in it is not in­tended to be a fund-raiser, but an awareness-raiser," said Storen. "Our not happening with the former vice president. 
Nonetheless, Hurwitz recently tried an experiment to see if Mondale could do without his medication, on the remote possibil­ity that it might have some inJ1uence on how the Democratic presidential candidate's campaign appearances are perceived. Mondale has been criticized for failing to excite audiences, and for television appear­ances which make him seem dull, humorless and unsympathetic. 
Before the first presidential debate with Reagan, Hurwitz said, Mondale complained offeeling tired and a little edgy. 
"He asked me if it could be the medication," recalled Hurwitz. 
For two days last week, Hurwitz directed Mondale to stop taking the medication, and then examined him in Minneapolis on Saturday mor­ning. 
Hurwitz found that Mondale's blood pressure had risen slightly, to 155 over 92, and concluded he should resume the medication, which he has. 
Concerning the pain in Mondale's elbow, Hurwitz said, "lbe problem was aggravated by shaking so many hands." 
main goal is education. We are ex­tremely pleased with the coopera­tion we continue to receive from the dining halls". 
Food Services sponsors the Wed­nesday Lunch Fast program, and last year coordinated a food-waste dis­play with the coalition. 
During World Hunger Day, most students ate at the dining hall ser· ving the regular dinner. On Monday, approximately 3,400 people ate in the South Dining Hall and I ,000 ate in the North Hall. "Ibe next day 3,461 students ate at North Dining Hall and 77.2 dined in the South Hall. 

··gQowettg fptt aQQ occagio"g'' 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway '232-3354 1 
1 
j 
j 

The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1984-page 6 


Administration responds to Soviet offer to break arms talk deadlock 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­ministration, responding to a Soviet call for positive U.S. steps to break the arms control deadlock, said yes­terday it wants improved relations but has no obligation "to pay a price so that the Soviet Union will come back to the nuclear negotiating table." 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes, responding to Soviet Presi­dent Konstantin Chernenko's offer to improve superpower relations, gave no indication the United States is prepared to shift its position on any arms control issue Chernenko cited. 
"When the Soviet Union is prepared to move from public ex­changes to private negotiations and concrete agreements, they will find us ready," Speakes said in a state­ment issued in response to an inter­view with Chernenko published in yesterday's editions of the Washing­ton Post. 
"The next step is to do it privately," Speakes said. 
But he added "we don't believe we are obligated to make any major concessions in advance of negotia­tions." 
Speakes responded to Chernenko's suggestion that U.S.­Soviet relations would improve if the United States would show some movement on "at least one of the es­sential questions" that divide the two nations on arms control. 
Govt. panel reports on 


problems in education 

f 
f Associated Press WASHINGTON -A panel of
r 
r prominent educators, bidding to turn the reform spotlight from 
f America's high schools to its col­leges, is warning that higher educa­tion is suffering serious problems, from underpaid faculty to deteriorating buildings to students abandoning the liberal arts. The panel, in·a report preparedfor Education Secretary T.H. Bell and his National Institute of Education, called for sweeping changes in campus life, including more faculty attention for freshmen and sop­homores, fewer part-time professors and less emphasis on vocational courses. A copy of the report, "Involvement in Learning: Realizing the Potential of American Higher Education," was obtained yesterday 
by theAssoctated Press. 
Bell is to discuss the report's recommendations at a meeting with college officials Monday, followed by a news conference. 
The education secretary helped form moves to raise high school graduation standards in many states with a biting critique called "A Na­tion At Risk," which his National Commission on Excellence in Edu­cation issued in April 1983. 
The new panel, called the Study Group on the Conditions of Excel­lence in American Higher Educa­tion, was chaired by Kenneth Mortimer of Pennsylvania State Uni­versity. 
It warned, "The strains of rapid 
expansion of higher education, fol­
lowed by recent years of constrict­
ing resources and leveling 
enrollments ... have taken their toll. 
"Gaps have appeared between 
our ideal expectations for higher 
education and the realities of stu­
dent learning, curricular coherence, 
the quality of facilities, faculty 
morale and academic standards." 
It cited these "warning signals:" 
•"One out of eight high-ability high school seniors does not choose to at­tend college at all." 
•
Half of all college students drop out. 

•Students' 
average scores fell be­tween 1964 and 1982 on 10 of 14 major subject area tests of the Graduate Record Examinations, in­cluding such fields as engineering, history and English literature. 


"One cannot blame these trends entirely on the decline in the prepa­ration of entering college students," the study said. "Part of the problem is what happens to students after they matriculate in college." 
"Increasing numbers of under­graduates are majoring in narrow specialties," the study said. Nearly half the more than 1,100 majors of­fered by American colleges are in occupational fields. 
The panel said that when the profession becomes "less attractive to our best and brightest students, we are compromising the future of higher learning in America. And many of our current faculty mem­bers feel 'stuck': they have lost the traditional mobility and vision of career that motivated so many pro­fessors to strive for excellence." 
Among their 27 recommen­dations are concentrating college resources on first-and second-year students, whom they said are now slighted on many campuses. 
The panel also cautioned colleges that the "race to install as many microcomputers as possible and then use them as drill sergeants" could be "removing the passion from learning." 

The Broadway Theatre League Presents 
On tour from New York 
Louis Jourdan Betsy Palmer 
and 


Taina Elg
. 
Jn 

LERNER & LOEWE'S 
"The United States stands ready to negotiate on these and other issues, but we cannot concur in the appar­ent Soviet view that it is incumbent upon the United States to pay a price so that the Soviet Union will come back to the nuclear negotiating table," Speakes said. 
"We agree with President Chernenko that there is no sound al­ternative to constructive develop­ment in relations between our two countries," Speakes said in an an­nouncement read before television cameras, which generally are barred from his daily White House brief­ings. 
"We are pleased to see the empha­sis he puts on positive possibilities for U.S.-Soviet relations," he said. 
He insisted the United States has "repeatedly demonstrated that we are ready for cooperation with the Soviet Union." 
And he repeated the standing U.S. positions on the four conditions that Chernenko mentioned: that space weapons talks be preceded by a moratorium on the testing or deployment of such weapons; a freeze on nuclear weapons; U.S. ratification of underground nuclear testing treaties signed in 1974 and 1976, and a U.S. pledge not to be the first to use nuclear weapons. 
Speakes said that in his recent meeting at the White House with So­viet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko, Reagan stressed "our strong desire to move to a more cooperative dialogue across the board." 
During the current presidential campaign, Democrats and other crit­ics ofthe president have faulted him for failing to achieve any arms con­trol agreements with the Soviets; for being unnecessarily hostile to the Kremlin; and for failing to meet with a top Soviet leader until last month's session with Gromyko. 
FLOWERS AND GIFfS 
Game Day Corsages starting $195 
1% mile east of U. Park Mall State Road 23 277-6067 



ARCHITECTURE MAJORS HAVE DESIGNS 
. ON DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
Get two free Cokes~ with

Two Free 
any pizza. 
One coupon per pizza. 

Cokes® 
Fast, Free Delivery'M Plaza 23 Center 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, a story in yesterday's Observer concerning the Hall Presidt>nts' Council meeting incorrectly re­ported the sponsor of an upcom­ing Trivial Pursuit contest. The HPC heard about the contest in a presentation by the Junior Advi­sory Council. 





EASY RIDER 
TO AID ROM CltiCAGO'S CMWlE EVERY ZHOURS EVIllY DAY 

FRI. & SAT., OCT. 26 &27-8 P.M. E.S.T. 
Matinee, Oct. 27,2 p.m. 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
United Limo
~II!lUI 


Special Discount Matinee Only-Studenta & Senior Citizens $5.00 Off Listed Ticket Price. 
Box office open daily (except Sunday) lOam to 5pm Telephone (219) 284-9190 
"::s,, MuterCard & Vi.a Accepted • Group DiacountiJ 
e 
The Broadway Theatre League P.O. Box 866 South Bend, IN 46624 
lllflir'
' 
~0844 McK•nley Hwv O;~eola ~..,I"IUUIIIHII
674-6993 .. i, ~w4.,~ llllllllllmlll 255"3068 I'' Ill!''' I' ~ r I ... t 'IIIH mHIIIJI 
or c~!l vour Travel Agenl •ill ill IWIIIIilllilli! ""' I flll!lllllllllllllr.l
. Ill I -IHIIIIIPIIIIII II 



The Observer 

Thursday, October 18, 1 984 -page 7 
More women enrolled in colleges than men 
Waste Meeting 
Democratic presidential candidate Walter Mondale, center, talks with,from left to right, Roy Her~gerson of the Missouri department of natural resources, Sen. Tom Eagleton, Cong. Robert Young, 
ji~~llrl~
if 
AP Photo 

and Lt. Gov. Ken Rothman, about the radioactive waste at the oldarmy uranium processingplant in Weldon Springs, Mo. Mondale visited the site Mon­day. 
Wbt iKniglfts ofUte Qtastle 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest minutes from campus 
s 

272-0312 277-1691 
<;-l'i-'5 l't·rran· l.ane 


(~I Kd. 25) 
Aero~~ from Marun's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. We are only minutes from campus 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -American wo­
men are pursuing higher eduqtion 
in ever greater numbers, accounting 
for much of the increase in college 
enrollment over the last decade and 
now outnumbering men at the na­
tion's universities, the Census 
Bureau said yesterday. 
Women accounted for about 52 percent of all college students as of October 1982, the new study said, with the biggest jump among wo­men aged 25 to 34 and those attend­ing two-year colleges. 
And in a related report, the National Science Foundation dis­closed that its survey of graduate schools in 1983 showed that women collected one-fourth of the doc­torate degrees in science and engi­neering -nearly double their rate of a decade earlier. 
"One of the most significant developments in higher education and research in the last 20 years has been the increasing participation of women. They have increased in terms of both absolute numbers and in comparison to the participation of men," the science foundation said. 
The census study counted 10.9 million students aged 14 to 34 in colleges and universities in 1982, up nearly 3 million over 10 years. 
"About four-fifths of the total in­crease in enrollment was accounted for by the increase in the number of 
OO~AIRCUTS 
$8.50
l!!t 
Haircut
\:i} 
shampop blowdry 




NotreDameHeadquarters 

women enrolled," said the census 
report School Enrollment -Social 
and Economic Characteristics of 
Students. 

"More than half of the observed increase in the number of college students was among students 25 years old and over," the bureau con­tinued. "In fact, the increase in the number of older women alone con­stituted 44 percent of the total growth in the number ofpersons en­rolled in college over the decade." 
The bureau counted 5.5 million women and 5.4 million men aged 14 to 34 enrolled in colleges. There were 4.6 million women and 4.4 mil­lion men undergraduates, while in graduate studies men slightly out­numbered women. The small num­ber ofpeople over age 34 enrolled in colleges and universities is about evenly divided between men and 
women. 

By comparison, in 1972 there were 4.8 million men aged 14 to 34 enrolled in colleges and universities and and 3.5 million women. 
While increased desire for educa­tion among women was the prime 
reason for their growing share of places in college, the bureau noted that another factor was relatively low growth in male enrollment. 
This resulted as men returned to a more normal rate of college atten­dance after the Vietnam War, which had spurred males to higher atten­dance because it was a means of deferring the draft and, later, be­cause veterans were eligible for edu­cational benefits. 
While the tendency of women to marry younger than men has tended to lower their college attendance in past years, many may now be return­ing to local community colleges to resume their education, raising the percentage of women over 25 at­tending college. 
A recent study by the Conference Board, a business-sponsored re­search organization, ha.o; also found that women students now outnum­ber men at colleges and universities. 
Lt. Gov. asks support for state tourism 
Associated Press 

MADISON, Wis. -Lt. Gov. James Flynn is asking taxpayers to increase their support of Wisconsin tourism by expanding the state's subsidy of recreation advertising. 
'Ibe proposal to spend more money on television and literature promotion reflects the industry's 
l 
argument that the legislature spends 1 
too little in comparison with the promotional campaigns of Min­nesota and Michigan. 
Spokesmen for the: Division of Tourism say Minnc:sota, and even Missouri, are making incrl·a.o;ed pitches to the Chicago area in hope: of wooing some of the summer and weekend traffic which Wisconsin has traditionally hosted. 
Flynn said yesterday he is a.'iking Gov. Anthony Earl for $6.27 million to operate the Division of Tourism from I98S-87, including a 97 per­cent increa.o;e in the portion desig· nated for advertising and promotion. 
He said the money would enable Wisconsin to double its fall and win­ter advertising programs. 
It would allow thl· division to buy television commercials in Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan and Minnesota, and launch new spring-summer campaigns in Indianapolis, St. Louis, Louisville, Columbus and Cleveland, he said. 

·-~------~---... 
The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1984 -page 8 
American biochemist wins 1984 Nobel prize 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden· An Amer­ican biochemist yesterday won the 1984 Nobel Prize in chemistry for research that led to safer medica­tion, and the prize in physics was awarded to an Italian-Dutch team of nuclear physicists who found parti· des that scientists had sought for 50 years. 
The chemistry prize, to R. Bruce Merrifield, 63, of New York's Rocke­feller University, gave Americans a 26-year record of at least one Nobel Prize a year. The United States has won or shared more than half the three annual Nobel science prizes since World War II. 
Merrifield was honored for work he did in the 1950s and 1960s, de­veloping a new method ofsynthesiz­ing amino-acid compounds called peptides, which has revolutionized the manufacture of drugs such as high blood pressure medicine, in­sulin and other hormone medica­tions, and has been used in gene technology. 
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences gave the Nobel Prize in Physics to Carlo Rubbia, 50, of Italy and Simon van der Meer, 59, of the Netherlands for discovering the W and Z subatomic particles which are believed to carry one of nature's four basic forces · the "weak interac­tion force" · in much the same way that photons carry light. 
Unlike the Rubbia-van der Meer discovery, which has no immediate practical application, Merrifield's development of a simple peptide­synthesis process has "become a basic tool that all laboratories use," said the Swedish Academy's Profes· sor Bengt Lindberg. 
Merrifield, a native of Fort Worth, 

Texas, described his prize-winning 
work as "an idea I had 2 5 years ago 
on how we can do chemical synthe­
sis of compounds, particularly 
peptides, by anchoring them to · some insoluble support. 
"It had advantages of increased 

yield and purification," he said. With 
their growing importance in 
medicine, he said, "we can do them 
much faster, we can make more of . them and therefore they're available 
for medical use." 
He didn't know he'd won until he 
arrived five minutes late to his labo­
ratory and got the news from the 
cleaning woman. "Some years ago, I 
knew that somebody had nominated 
me. But that was years ago and I had 
assumed that nothing had hap­
pened," Merrifield said in a tele­
phone interview, his voice still 
shaking. 
At a news conkrence later, he said he didn't know what he would do with the $193,000 prize money. "I could use a new car, but I really haven't given any thought to that," he said, adding that the prize might mean "maybe I can get a few more rooms" in the lab. 
Rubbia, caught up in an air traffic controllers' strike, learned he and van der Meer had won the Nobel Prize while he was trying to catch a plane to Trieste, Italy."I was riding a· cab from Malpensa (Airport) to Linate (Airport) in Milan when the radio announced the Nobel deci­sion," Rubbia told reporters. 
The existence of W and Z parti· des had been predicted before, by 1979 Nobelists Sheldon Glashow and Steven Weinberg of the United States and Abdus Salam ofPakistan. 
They never had been found, however, until Rubbia and van der Meer discovered them last year in a particle-accelerator they built for the European nuclear research or­ganization, CERN, in Geneva, Swit­zerland. 
When he was told about his prize 
in Geneva, van der Meer said: "I 
hope it gives a boost to CERN and 
allows it to continue the research 
despite criticism for being too ex­
pensive." 
The other Nobel Prize winners 
this year were black South African 
Bishop Desmond Tutu, for peace; 
Czechoslovakian poet Jaroslav 
Seifert, literature; and Niels Kaj 
}erne of Denmark, Cesar Milstein of 
Argentina and Georges Koehler of 
West Germany, for medicine. The 
$193,000 prizes will be presented 
Dec. 10. 





TALK MBA 
withover75schools.Inoneplace.Inoneday. 
Here's a rewarding opportunity to meet with representatives from many of the country's leading graduate management schools . 
• 
Discuss admissions, curriculum, financial aid, career development, and placement.

• 
Attend workshops on school selection, MBA and PhD careers, and 


theGMAT.•Obtain admissions material and catalogs. Plus the free booklet, 
The MBA and You. Daily registration for Forums and workshops is $5 payable at the door. 
1984 MBA FORUMS • CHICAGO !rt 
The Palmer House, State and Monroe Streets Friday, October 26 2:00-8:00 Saturday, October 27 10:00-4:00 CONCURRENT WORKSHOPS 
• The MBA and You .y ' 1"'" Careers ·:..;,;,. 
Friday Saturday 3:00-4:00 and 6:00-7:00 11:00-12:00 and 2:00-3:00 
....... 
OO¢TOutW08BOP$ ....·.···•· ·;.:;,,.·.:itt;;:·:·.····· ··•. 
• Doctoral Programs 
Friday, 4:30-5:30 Saturday, 12:30-1:30 
For more Information, cal1800·922-1086 (In New Jersey 609"734·1539). Sponsored by the Graduate Management Admission Council. 
Fe9RUMS 


with United States Secretary ofState George Schultz and his wife Helena at a banquet in Toronto Mon­day. 

BEST IN PRIME RIB STEAKS, SEAFOOD 

Enjoy Our Relaxing Atmosphere 
CALL FOR RESERVATIONS 233-4021 232-2494 602 S. WALNUT, SO. BEND 
"RUN WITH THE OLYMPIANS" 4TH ANNUAL 
SPORTSMED IOK WEEKEND 


FEATURING: 
• 
Olympian Jim Spivey 

• 
Olympian Bob Nieman 

• 
Olympian Pete Pfitzinger 

• 
Olympian Paul Cummings 


• New Zealander Chris Hughes ...with 20 other national class runners. 
Saint Joseph's Medical Center 
HEALTH FAIR/RUNNING EXPO/CLINICS/PARTY OCTOBER 27-28, 1984 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
10K AND 1112 MILE RUNS OCTOBER 28 2:00 p.m. 
Special room rates available at the South Bend Marriott Clip and send form with check payable to Sportsmed 10K, P.O. Box 1935, South Bend, Indiana 46634 • (219) 237-7696 • or request full brochure. 
ENTRY FORM -PLEASE PRINT 
Name ----------------------------~--Ph __________ 
Address ------------------Shirt Size _____ 
City/State/Zip ------------------------Age--­
10K age 12and up, $9 __ Fun Run age 12 and up, $9 ____ 10K under 12, $6 __ Fun Run under 12, $6 ----· 
Open Team Name (Submit entries together) 
TAC No·-----,---------­
(IF APPLICABALE) 
Waiver (must be signed) In consideration of the foregoing, I, for myself, my he1rs, my executors and admmrstrators watve and re:ease any and all rights and claims for damages. I may have against any of the sponsors or organrzers o.f thrs event for any and all claims of damages, demands, act tons whatsoever whtch may anse as a result of my parttcrpatton in thtsevent. 1attest and verify that I am phystcally ftt and have suffictently tramed for the completwn of thrs event and my physrcal condttlon has been venfied by a ltcensed medical doctor. Further. I grant full permrssron to any and all of the fore­gomg to use my likeness for any purpose whatsoever. 
Srgnature and date (parent's signature tl under 18) 

~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t_________________Th__urs-da~y,_o_cto_b_er-18~,1~98-4~pa~ge~9 
Fairness Doctrine enforces media's obligation 
"Rats!," I said to myself as Captain Furillo and the fun hunch at the Hill Street precinct fadt·d from the 'IV screen, "here they go with yet anotht·r stupid commercial, just when I'm starting 10 gt·t in10 the show. Oh, well." But 
John Perez 
just wondering 

what popped up on the tube next wasn't the expe<:ted pi!<:h for detergent or deodorant, hut another "public service announcement" ­an t·ditorial. 
Why do 'IV stations interrupt programs with these little blurbs promoting Girl Scout cookie sales, voter registration drives, and as­sortt·d other a<:tivitics? Out of concern for their viewers? To fill dead airtime? Perhaps, hut the truth of the matter is that it's the law. 
'Jbe Federal Communications Commission, under its Fairness Doctrine, requires holders ofcommercial broadca~t licenses, both televi­sion and radio stations, to allocate a certain amount ofair time every day to items ofpublic interest and to "provide fair and balanced pre­sentations of conflicting viewpoints on con­troversial issues of public importance." 1bis rule has been in effect since 1959. 
'The FCC is currently holding hearings to determine whether or not it should abolish the Fairness Doctrine. They feel that, in accor­dance with the Reagan administration's laissez-faire attitude toward regulating indus­try, the public would be better served if the broadcast media were freer to police them­selves. In other words, broadcasters would be on their own in decidinf. how much time to devote to editorials, rebuttals, etc. and when to run such spots, ifany. One doesn't need a .WO I.Q. score to realize that, given these cir­cumstances, most stations would pass up the chance to run a PA message in favor of yet an­
other commercial that would bring in several thousand dollars in income. If the public af­fairs spots air at all, they'll be squeezed in after the 2Sth-daily-rerun of MASH at 4:00am. 
Do we still need the Fairness Doctrine? After all, it was created over twenty-five years ago. At the time, radio frequencies and 1V channels were relatively few in number. Today we are blessed/cursed with FM radio, en radio, videocassettes, laser discs, cable 1V, satellite 1V, teletext, and other information outlets. Does having these media available make the Fairness Doctrine unnecessary? Un­fortunately, the answer is no. Despite this technological proliferation, over 7S percent of prime-time 1V viewers and radio listeners still watch or hear commercial broadcasts. 
Admittedly, the Fairness Doctrine is not a perfect device, but at least it provides 1V/radio audiences with a much needed respite from the mindless pap that, unfortun­ately, seems to dominate the airwaves these days. By providing the public with a forum in which to present, as well a~ he cxpo~cd to, views in opposition to those voiced hy the sta­tion management, the doctrine enforces the media's obligation to be fair and truthful in both the reporting ofand the commentary on news and current events. Admirably, some hroadcasters actively seek out opposing view­points in order to provide the most balanced coverage possible. 
Some broadcasters, in response to the preceding argument, state that requiring them to allow for the expression of opposing views forces an undue hardship on them, forc­ing them to listen to the idea~ of every crack­pot with a grudge. But isn't communication based on exchanging differer~t ideas? lbe broadcasters' rebuttal shows only that they have no interest in fulfilling their obligations to the general public, and the FCC should not give in to them. 
jobn Perez is a jur~ior accour~tir~g major lmd a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Drawing the Abortion-Holocaust analogy 
In recent wt·t·k.~. there has been a great deal ofdehate on the issue ofahortion. I have tried, along with many others I hope, to follow as much of it as possible. One thing 1 have noticed in all the dist·ussion is the frequency with which those who defend the "pro-life" 
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 
position compart· the issue of abortion to the Holocaust. For t·xample, one recent speaker <:olllended that American jews should he par· ticularly appalkd at their country's toleration ofabortion, while another campus figure sug­gested that the University's sponsoring of a kcturt· hy Mario Cuomo (who defends the ··pro-ahortion" position) would be compara­bk to the University sponsoring a debate, in I'H4. on the question of whether the Nazis ~hould ht· forced to stop exterminating the 

Jt·ws. No one would question that ahortion and tht• Holocaust are analogous in that they are hoth enormously serious issues. But is it appropriate to apply this analogy in a more rigorous way. as was done in the two preced­ing examples? And, if it is appropriate, what are tht· implit·ations? 
Whenever I think of the Holocaust, I am reminded of the Nuremberg ~rials and, more specifically, tht• 1961 film titled "Judgment at Nuremburg." That film has a particularly memorable scene. 

The sn·nt• deals with two of the presiding judges · one American, one European -of the International Military Tribunal, which was created in t94S in order to try Nazi war criminals. In this scene, these two judges are in their chamhers arguing over the fate of a Nazi judgt· who, for reasons of patriotism and governmental pressure, had sentenced anum· bt•r ofjews to death for breaking laws that he knew to be unjust and immoral. The European judge is trying to persuade the American judgt· that they should be lenient with the Nazi, since he was caught up in a wave ofpatri­otism and since he was really only following the orders of those in power. Rejecting this argument, the American judge responds: "What you arc trying to tell me is that men should not be held accountable for their ac­tions. "!bat is something that you are going to have to explain to me very, very carefully." 
'!be Nun:mhurg trials were, admittedly, a 

sham. Not only were the trials and adjudica­tions ex post facto, but the leaders of nations such a~ Russia, who committed crimes similar to those of the Nazis, were not tried simply hccause they happened to be on the winning side. Even so, I think we would agree with the opmton of of the American judge in "Judgment at Nurcmhurg." Individuals should he held accountable for their inhumane ac­tions (or inactions), even if they claim that they were only following the laws of their so­ciety. 
With this in mind, let us rigorously apply the Holocaust analogy to abortion. Certainly, the unborn children represent the Jewish people. Accordingly, abortion clinics repre­sent concentration camps; the doctors per­forming the abortions represent those Nazis running these camps; and the mothers having 
Credit Union patronage pays few dividends 
Dear Editor: 

Are you sure that you'll earn interest on your savings account? I'm not. The Notre Dame Credit Union doesn't seem to want to pay interest on my savings account anymore. Obviously, this was not the way they worded it. Instead. the message was: "Effective Oct. I, dividends will be incrca~ed to 7 percent APR on share accounts ba~ed on the low quarterly balance." What this means is, for example, that from October to December you will get a divi­dend only on the money left after your bal­ance drops to its lowest. My interest for these three months will be 7 percent of the amount left (if any) after I clear my account, with "Merry Christmas" in my mind. I could imag­ine that many other students are in the same hoat -going home and taking their money with them (think of spring break and summer too!). 
'The rise of interest, on the other hand, shows that the dividend my money should earn now goes to the people with the big ac­counts. This is only the last of several steps taken by the credit union, which hit people operating on a tight budget most. 
•The minimum to earn interest was raised 
abortions represent those who rounded up theJews, that is the Gestapo and the S.S. 
The tricky part ofthis analogy is figuring out who we represent. The German people? Per­haps, but I don't think so. No, I think we would be more properly represented by someone like the Nazi judge in "Judgment at Nurem­burg." He knew what was going on; he knew that it wa~ unjust, immoral, and inhumane, and yet he did nothing to stop it. Analogously, we know what is going on with abortion; we know that it is unjust, immoral, and inhumane, and yet we do nothing to stop it. 
One can argue against this analogy by saying that the Nazi judge was an active partic­ipant in the Holocaust; that we, unlike him, never condemned anyone to death unjustly. This, however, would he like listening to the German people argue that they had known 
P.O. BoxQ 
from $';00.00 to $7SO.OO in the checking ac­count. 
•There 
are now charges for the automatic transfer from the savings to the checking ac­count, if there are more than three transfers. 

•The 
calculation of interest was changed before to be based on the monthly low bal­ance (you drop under $7SO.OO for one day in your checking account, no interest on the month). 

•Checks 
from other banks arc now on hold and not available for the customer for I 0 or 20 days. 


Moreover, we learned about all those changes only after they became effective. 
lf you do not think that this is fair, drop a line to the credit union. I personally will be looking for another bank, if these policies arc not changed. 
Thomas Fischer Graduate Student 
Behavior undeserving of any respect 
Dear Editor: 

Having received the Notre Dame Magazine, I wa~ proud to see that the Notre Dame stu­dent body acted so responsibly to administra­tive directives curtailing the use ofalcohol on that the Holocaust was going on, but that they were not to be held accountable because they were not active participants in it. One can also argue that we arc and have been prevented by the laws of our pluralistic society from stop­ping the murder of innocent, unborn children. Of course, the Nazi judge also argued that he wa~ only acting in accordance with the laws ofhis society. 
So, then, are the issues of abortion analogous in a rigorous sense? I don't know. But, if they are, I do know that if I were ever made to stand trial like the Nazi, I would pray that the man behind the bench was not like the American judge in "Judgment at Nurem­burg." 
V('1'non Marchal is a ser~ior it1 the Program ofLibt'1'al Studies and ts a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

campus. 'Throwing trash and vandalizing the administration building was probably very ef­fective. As an alumnus, I view that statement with as much respect as anything Father Hes­burgh would have to say. 
Once again, I see that you have acted very maturely in response to our losing effort against Air Force. As my local newspaper re­ported, after the game wa~ over, many of you directed chants of"Goodbye Gerry" at Coach Gerry Faust. Ifmy sarca~m thus far has not ap­peared to you, let me be direct -that was the weakest, most impertinent thing I have ever heard from the Notre Dame student body.It is very easy when you're in a group to berate anyone. What I ask is does any one of you who engaged in such childishness have enough backbone to go up and tell Coach Faust one­on-one what you actually think? I doubt it. But I do know one thing -Coach Faust has class and would open his office to you if you wanted to make such a statement. 
Coach Faust ha~ not had su<:cessful years as head coach and maybe he is not up to the job. But Gerry Faust is Notre Dame, you are not. He respects the school and his fellow man. You obviously respect neither. If such behav· ior is typical of your character, you don't deserve the respect that goes with the school. 
Philip Lee Russo NIJ Class of'80 


The Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Edl/or·rn-Chref  Bob Vonderheide  Busrness Manager  Dave Ta1clet  
Managrng Edrtor  Mark Worscheh  Controller .  Mar1pat Horne  
The Observer IS the mdepenrlent  newspaper published by the students of the  News Edrtor  Sarah Ham11ton  Advertrsrng Manager  Anne Culligan  
Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's CotleyP  It does not necessar1ty  News Edrtor  Dan McCullough  Crrculatron Manager.  Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the pOliCieS of the adminiStration of either 1nSt1tut1on  The news 1s reported as  Sarnt Mary·s Edrtor  Anne Monastyrsk1  Systems Manager  Kevm Williams  
accurately anll as obtect,vely ilS possible Uns1gnec1 ed1tonals represent the opm10n  Sports Edrtor  Michael Sullivan  
of a maf0r1ty of the Ed1tor1al Boord  Comrnentanes. l~lters and the lns1de Column  V1ewpornt Ed1tor  . Dave Grote  
prP.scnt the v1cws of thPif ault10rs Column space 1S ctvadable to all members of the commun1ty ..tnd thC! tree expresS11m uf vary1nq op1n1ons on campus. through tellers.  Features Edrtor Pt1oto Edrtor  Mary Healy Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
1S encouraged  

-------------------------------------------, 
Showcase 

Thursday, October 18, 1984 -page 10 
-~~ 
Movies 

Discrimination addressed by superb, professional cast 
by Paul Cimino 
features staff writer 
don't like racial discrimination. II think it shows the uglier side of man's feelings towards his brother. Furthermore, I am disgusted each time I am, in any way, reminded of the assassinations ofMartin Luther King and Malcom X. So why did I decide to see "A Soldier's Story," a movie which revolves around the discrimination issue? For the simple reason that.l admire Harold E. Rol­lins as an actor. Needless to say, neither he nor the movie disap­pointed me. 
"A Soldier's Story" is the tale of Master Sergeant Vernon Waters (played by Adolph Caesar), a black soldier striving to rise above the discrimination against his race in a white man's army. Waters is mur­dered at the beginning ofthe film. 
The "big shots" at Army Headquarters in Washington D.C. assign a special investigator to the case. Captain Richard Davenport (expertly portrayed by Harold E. Rollins) is sent to Fort: Neal, Louisiana, to solve the mystery. While trying to sort out a complex murder, Davenport must contend with discrimination from white officers and insubordination from black enlisted men who are amazed to see "one of their kind" wearing captain's bars. Rollins' character finds this a tough task; however, he is still willing to undertake and see it through with a true sense ofpride for both his post and responsibili­ties, and also his heritage. 
As Davenport questions the men who served under Waters, he is 

enlightened as to the kind of man the sergeant was and the ideals he evoked. The movie is filled with flashbacks which recreate the last two years oflife at the fort for 
Waters and his men. These flash­
backs serve to develop not only 
Waters' character but the charac­
ters ofhis men. The mystery 
becomes more involved as Daven­
port digs deeper, and when he finally feels that he has the whole 
crime wrapped up, the story takes a 
sharp turn and ends in an unex­pectedmanner. 
Rollins is the only familiar actor in this movie. Rollins' claim to fame was the movie "Ragtime" ( 1981 ), in which he played Coalhouse Walker, a role which earned him an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor. Some late night die-hards may also remember a guest host shot he did on the short-lived "Fridays." Rollins does an excellent job in this film with a demanding role. His character is both compas-

Ellsworld R.H.E. 


sionate and stern. This is no easy task, and it is made even more diffi­cult by the genre of the film. Rol­lins, however, rises to the occasion and offers a stirring performance. 
"A Soldier's Story" was adapted from the play "A Soldier's Play." When the script made the jump to the big screen, so did many of the play's actors. One such actor is Adolph Caesar. Caesar makes his film debut as Sergeant Waters. Waters is by far the most intricate character in the movie and Caesar is able to bring his character alive in a way that facilitates the audience's association with his life's turmoil. 
As with Caesar, the other actors are all unknowns. Yet this cast is superb and professional in all it does. Nowhere is there a hint of amateurism and at times it seems as though these men are really living their parts. 
The background music was composed by a musician who has become rather popular oflate; Herbie Hancock. His work en­hances the feel of the movie while never stealing the show. 
All in all, "A Soldier's Story" is a fine movie worth the price ofad­mission. So, ifyour 1:15 lab gets cancelled some day, you might want to take in this flick. 


Above, Howard Rollins]r. stars as Captain Richard Davenport, a spit-and-polish Anny officer investigating an anny base murder. Left, Adolph Caesar-and Denzel Washington square off 
Boys' fantasies 111ore outlandish 
Associated Press good guys and bad guys. Health. 
Girls the same age also spend lots Watson said there's no reason to 
of time pretending, but their fan­think that dwelling in outlandish il­
BOSTON --Little boys pass as tasies are almost always re<Jlistic lusions makes youngsters lose touch much as a quarter of their playtime domestic dramas. They play house, with the real world. Instead, he fantasizing spaceship rides, ray gun go to work, cook dinner and talk to theorizes that it may actually help duels and other outlandish ad­their neighbors. them develop imagination and ventures, while girls are far less In fact, the girls studied never creativity. likely to act out unr~alistic es­drifted into the unrealistic never­"It may even help them to differ­capades, new research shows. never land that so fascinated the entiate fantasy and reality," he said, 
"Very often, parents worry about little boys. "because they play around the bor­kids doing all these crazy things," One telling difference, he said, is ders of the two and learn how to said psychologist Malcolm W. wat­the way children use props in their handle it." 
son of Brandeis-University. So he set fantasies. A girl might pretend that a There is no clear explanation of out to learn how much time banana is a telephone. But in the why boys like high fantasy and girls youngsters spend in the realm offan­hands of a boy, it becomes a magic 
don't. Part of the difference could 
tasy. wand. result from encouragement from He found that bizarre, often com­
Watson found the high fantasy adults and more male role models in bative, daydreams filled with magic among boys 4 or 5 years old but not movies and television. and the supernatural are the almost among toddlers who were two years However, Watson notes that high exclusive domain of little boys. But younger. fantasy almost always involves lots he says parents shouldn't worry, be­"This shows that it's quite com­of action and conflict, and boys are cause these fantasies are normal. mon and increases with age, and it's simply more inclined than girls to be 
Sometimes pre-school boys normal," Watson said. "The first im­aggressive, active and combative in pretend they are spies and super­plication is: don't worry about it." their play. heroes, but most of this time they The unpublished research was Pre-school girls showed a fantasy 
spend in space, traveling in rocket conducted on 45 apparently ordi­level similar to that of 2-and 3-year­ships, exploring planets and zapping nary, middle-class younsters at a old boys, the researchers found, and aliens with ray guns. Woven through day-care center. It was financed by toddler girls showed hardly any at these illusions are conflicts between the National Institute of Mental 
all. 



Showcase Thursday, October 18, 1 984 -page 1 1 
Letters to a lonely God 
Injustices in print and reckless cheap shots 
A book only for nerds 
Above, nerds Gilbert(Anthony Edwards) andLezds ( Robt>rt Car­radine) move their belongings into their freshman dorm. Below, the twopose to show offthe baste nerdfeatures andaccessories. 
Glt:taa& att t rtu.Ja1 P:l&.thc o' horntd~ '""~fo.nmtorwt­rt!M)r l.t-l"' ~. 
-<»Po. 4J!O,) Odd$ 
tllir. 
TM _,11<,.. 
-·llal'di!*~··
• ~lldQo or 
ttyl• t...-wi• -U..OI>fn-• O.r<l~ ..... ... •~>~~•~ 
...-~ 
-­
-~ 
•~~~t~au.r 


by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 

~ the st·nior <:olumnist, I rt·ad
Aalmost t'vt·rything printed on 
the opinion pages of1be Obserr•<'1'. I 
lovt· to sec good student writing. I 
t•njoy the wit and irreverence. I 
admire the sensitive insights, the 
passion for justice, and the various 
kinds ofcaring characteristics of 
bright young pt·ople stru~ling to 
he masters of their own destiny. 
I don't mind the occasional prt·aching; I tend to be preachy mysdf. !like the feistiness of rebels who protest against the establish­ment. Feistiness should be encour­aged in a community ofscholars anxious to avoid group-think. Pas­sivity and docility arc traits a shep­herd cncouragcs in a flock ofsheep he wants to keep out of trouble; but sheep arc dumb creatures who don't offt·r much ofan example to Christians being trained to raise 
their voices against the troubles of the world. 
It never bothers me to hear that tht· natives arc restless, as long as their dis<:ontentmcnt doesn't turn into dt·structivt•nt•ss, which docsn't help anybody. A university is kept on its tot·~ if it has to carry on a running battle with the studt·nts. An establishment doesn't have all the 
by Paul Aiello 
features staffwriter 

T
hl' Total NL•rd Is indeed a book by and t(Jr nerds. Inspired by the box-office flop, "Rt·vt·ngc of tht· Nt·rd~ ... the hook tries to serve as a t·omprcht·nsivc nerd handbook wherein the authors (Judy and Lydia Wilen) attt·mpt to capture the t·sst•nt·c of the nerd's way of lift•. 
As soon a~ I rccl'ivcd the book la.'t week, I eagerly skimmed through the first few page~ hoping to lind something with crl'ativity and originality. What I found was indt't'd "somt·thing,'' but I will let you judge what it is. for example, in tht· opt·ning section entitled "What 
...a~~,..,~a~JJ"~L-· 
-..] . 

A COMPREHENSIVE HANDBOOK 
is a Nerd," the book provides an 
ctomology for the word "nerd." 
Once upon a time th<'1'e u•as an Anu"f'ican Princess u•ho, day after day, sal by the side ofa stream 
filing ht>r nails and drinkinl!, Tab, 
while ell!,roup oflittle boys and l!,irlsp!t~} 1ed roul!,h l!,tmws on the oth£'1' bank. 
"Come across andplay with us," they uvuld call, but she only laUl!,hed. "Don't bothL>r me, Nerds," she u•ould then shout out with disdain. 
One day herfath<'1', the Polyest£'1' Kinl!,, asked," why do you call them 
infallible insights. Students have infallible insights too, which they have a right to publish, even when they arc stepping on administrative toes. Only Communists and Fascists oppose freedom of the press. We havt• neither of these totalitarian types at Notre Dame. 
I get annoyed with Observer columns and letters when it is ob­vious a writer makes no attempt to be objective or fair. Have you ever noticed how much of the published material seems to be written by people reckless with cheap shots? All ofus get goaded into rage, but we're ill-advisedto throw temper tantrums in the press. None of us are too young or old to be held accountable for our unfairness. Smugness and self-righteousness are just as dangerous as anger in making us guilty ofinjustices that hide the truth. 
I'm writing in a way that seems patronizing; it's one of the rights that comes with having lived so long. I've been more faithful to writing than I have to anything else in my life. Such fidelity has not made me wise or good as a writer, hut I take pride in my work. 
I am willing to he held respon­

sihle for my opinions, though I may re-think them when I'm smarter, since none of them claims to be deathless truth. I want students to he proud and responsible too; re­sponsibility begins with fairness. First -rate journalism isn't a dog-eat­dog affair, in which, ifone gets mad enough, anything goes. 
Afriend of mine criticized the Pope. He said: "I hate the way he goes around, grandstanding." I said: "I'm not wise enough to tell the Pope how to do his job." Many people publicly examine Fr. Hes­burgh's conscience for him. I wonder if they think they're wise enough to tell a national leader what his duties are? Sooner or later, some of them start calling the Notre Dame president a hypocrite, as you knew they would. Hypocrisy is such an obnoxious word, implying that a man's life is built on the practice of deceit. lbe label is unkind and unfair. You'd resent it if it was pinned on your father who works a second job which keeps him away from home, because it is a fact of 
life that there is no such thing as a free lunch. A writer should tremble at his unfairness in daring to put the word into print about a priest who wears himself out as the servant of the world. 
I'm not insisting on toadying in referring to administrators, so that you can never call a spade a spade. College communities, like families, 
N£>rds, daughter?" "Because," she 
whined, "they look like N£'1'ds." 
From this bricftao;te ofThe Total 
Nerd. I think everyone will agree 
there exists not a more appropriate 
comment then the one given by the 
all-time great nerd, Mr. Rogers. 
"Can you say 'This hook is trash?'" 
"I thought you could!" 
One may think I am being too harsh. But the hook has no redeem­ing qualities. It is simply a cheap spin-off on a terrible movie. Still, for the fun ofit, try to answer some of these questions found at the end of lbe Total Nerd. The questions come from the GNAT (General Ncrd Aptitude Test). Ifyou answer some of these questions correctly maybe The Total Nerd is for you. 
Circle the answer that sccms 
correct. 

I. College students who are highly motivated towards achieve­mcnt arc probably ... (a) perfec­tionists; (b) dominated by their parents; (c) nerds. 
2. Which tattoo would you select for your arm? (a) a picture of your dream girl (b) the name of your girlfriend (c) a picture ofa com­puter termimnal with "mom"written on the screen. 
In the following, select the word that is different from the other three: 
3. 
(a) nerd (b) dink (c) dork (d) your mom. 

4. 
(a) being laughed at (h) being rejected (c) being ridiculed (d) dating. 


5. (a) rear (b) gluteus maximus 
(c) tush (d) elbow. 
6. 
Is there a rule you believe people should Jive by? (a) take no prisoners (b) the golden rule (c) the slide rule. 

7. 
'Ibe most respectable way to aboreviatc "Science Fiction" is: (a) 


S.F. (b) Sci-Fi (c) Scien-Fic. 
8. 
Complete the following sen­tence: "Girls (Guys) find me ... (a) irrestihle (b) intelligent (c) by , accident. 

9. 
Which ofthesc heroes do you most admire? (a) Conan the Barbar­ian (b) Sir Lancelot (c) Pac Man. 


Answers: I.e 2. None. Real Nerds do not get tattoocd. 3.d 4.d 5.d 6.c 7.a B.c 9.c. 
have no untouchables that can't be challenged, or sacred cows living on ground too holy to be walkcd on, though a show of respect ncvcr diminished anyone's graccfulness. I'm talking about fairness. Fairncss means you don't usc any old stigma to bcat a dogma you hate, as though you had a God-given right to be a bully. 
Paper doesn't refuse ink, we all know that. Every newsstand has its pile oftrash. A campus is not the real world, thcy say. A campus should be in love with the truth; the real world lives on lies. A student, unhappy with life, lets his type­writer get out ofcontrol with rash judgments. His vituperations get published, the words sitting in the middle ofa page like a mess left by a dog on the lawn, which the crea­ture never looks back at. A dog doesn't know any better. One wishes the printed merde could follow its author like a ghost, saying: "You are responsible for me. I'm not an undergraduate prank you can leave fatherless. You must at least acknowledge me with shame." Weren't we warned that our ir­responsiblities will go with us to the judgment, where we will he held liable for every ill-considcrcd word? 
A writer for The Scholastic wrote a serious allegation about the per­sonal life of William Buckley. Buck­Icy was sent a copy ofthe article, and he wrote to Fr. Hesburgh in this manner: ''I'm not willing to get into a hassle with a student publication; however t!'Jc allegation happens to be false. I'm curious to sec if Notre Dame, being Catholic, will bt• more fair than anything I would have the right to expect from an institution less concerned about justice." The Scholastic printed the denial as Buckley wrote it. Some allegations can't he dig­nified with a denial, because they are as mindless as though an idiot broke wind in your face. 

I like The ObserrJt>r so much. Students, wanting to say something, rarely mean any harm. Some of them should learn that thcir news­paper is not a substitute for the walls ofthe john where they record their graffiti. Wit Is not a cheap shot fired into the crowd. Truth is not an insult you're anxious to get off your chest. Cleverness wins more vic­tories when it's sure what it's saying; it can bring tyrants to their knees, if it's reasonable. Unlike the conversation you left in the bar, words don't die ea~y when they're once on paper. '!bey take on a life of their own, ambassadors you send before you, evidence that you leave 
'-chind. If you're careful with them, they'll meet you later like old friends who praise you as the creator who made them so they could walk with their ht·ads up. 


The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1984-page 12 
lbl.' Ohsar•a Notre I>Jml· oftke. locatnl on thl· thin! floor of l.al'ortUnl· Stmknt Cl·nter. accepb classified adverti,in);: from 9 a.m. until-! p.m...\londay throu);:h Frida~ 7be Ohser1•er Saint .\1arv's office. lol·atnl on thl· third floor of lla);:gar Colkge Center. acn·pts cla"itinb from 12:.~0 p.m. until 5 p.m...\!on­day though Fridav Ikadlinc for next-da\· cla"ilinb i' -~ p.m. All cla"itkd' must lw prepaid, either in pnson or by maiL< :harge i' I 0 cen" rwr five dural·­
Classifieds 

tns pn day. 
NEED RIDE to and from St. Louis at FOR SALE; 4 S.C. GA'S CALL MARY at ATIN. JUNIORS Halloween Barn Party Believe It or Not ... Suaan -you're auch a brute but he break. Can leave at one's convenience. 1363 Oct. 31 Hayrides,DJ,Dancing,Food and I actually saw Father Heaburgh walking deawved lt. Congr8ta on affirmativeNOTICES Call Lisa at SMC 5464 Drinks All this for only $5, buy tix on the quad last Friday ! feminine action. 4-SALE: 2 SC STUD. TIXX. CALL PAUL Wed.,Thur.&Fri this week at the dining -the other women. 
2119 halls. HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY ANNE EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 GILMORE (even if it is one day early) 
RIDERS NEEDED I need riders to St. Louie or Centnll Mla­aourl for October break. Call Maria at 

TWO S.C. GAa FOR SALE. CALL 277­TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 0854 Dear NEUTER BOY, If you can't figure
284-5534. what stage 2 is. you're still NEUTER!
Hey!' If you still want to go to LONG IS­Jazz at the Nazz
TYPING From the girls beyond stage 2 (Unsullied, 
I need a ride back from K.C. altar break LAND for fall break the LONG ISLAND Jazz at the NazzJackie Boggs but not quite innocent) 
even more than the lrlah need a n­bus still has plenty of room. If you are in­Jazz at the Nazz684-8793 
football coach! can you help me? can I DESPERATELY NEED TWO GA'S FOR terested call Pete Laches at 2453 or Paul This Thursday, 9:00 ,be there 
E.J. at 3340. Feat! THE PENN STATE GAME. MY PAR­Citarelli at 1762 before Thursday. Hurry ENTS A'RE CELEBRATING THEIR 30 time is running out!!! 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 

Need riders to DAYTON leaving 10/18. WEDDING ANIVERSARY AND I To THE PAINTER OF THE GOLDEN CRUISER CRUISER CRUISER HELMETS: Save some of your Friday
Call Sean 277-3953. WOULD BE EXTREMELY GRATEFUL "DiBest Gnome is a Dead Gnome" CRUISER CRUISER CRUISER ThisTYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. nights for us' From the SAMBUKA
TO ANYONE WHO COULD HELP ME SVEN SUBOTAI MANIAC likes fast cars and FAST WO­NEED RIDE TO IU BLOOMINGTON FOR 
LOVERS
OUT. OF COURSE I WOULD BE WILL­MEN. If you are one of the latter. stop by TYPING SERVICE BRE'AK. CALL TOM 1240 
ING TO PAY A HEALTHY PRICE! CALL Room 8 Fisher to wish him HAPPY
277~5 

HI KEN! (Yes, I'm talking to you,Ken) PICKUP AND DEUVERY 
233-6598 ASK FOR JOE BIRTHDAY. CRUISER CRUISER 
RIDE NEEDED-TO BOSTON OR What have you been doing? Just wanted 
CRUISER CRUISER CRUISER WORCESTER, MASS CALL JOHN, 3801 DESPERATELY need 2 Penn State tix!!! to say hi. Have a good break' CRUISER 
Reymann's, Ehrenfried's, & other associ­Will pay$$$$ call Beth 239-6328 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8!197 ated people : DATE SQUAD IS HERE ... The BEST so­SKID ROW...MORE THAN A SECTION. 
NEED RIDERS TO PITISBURGH. Welcome to Notre Dame ! cial alternative on campus!!! Meet great
2 STUD TIX S.C. CALL 291-4364 IT'S A WAY OF LIFE. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO 

LEAVING OCT 19. CALLROBINAT234-girls like Frandy Warhol, Bunny's TYPING. CALL 287-5162. 
7319 daughter. Nanna, Murph, Skipper, and
2 S CAROLINA GAS FOR SALE CALL WOMEN'S CROSS-COUNTRY 
PATELLA LAKE the Virgin Cow. Who you gonna call?
MARYAT4294 State championships here at N.D. this
$$"C:A5'H' FOR TEXTBOOKS $$ PAN­PATELLA LAKE DATE SQUAD!! 
ATLANTA I need a ride back. Share exp. 

Friday at 2 and 3 p.m. GOOD LUCK!
DORA'S BOOKS 937 SOUTH BEND PATELLA LAKE 
Todd 1688. 

NEEDED: 5 SOUTH CAROLINA G.A.S Ginny Blisser1 Allison Cameron Tricia
AVE. 233-2342 PATELLA LAKE You're life is in great danger, Bunny's
CALL: GINA 3712 THANKS!! Huberty Kathleen Lehman Let's win this 
Need ride 10/19 or 10/20 A.M. to PATELLA LAKE daughter! Watch out, we have agents at one!TYPING SERVICE at reasonable rates. 
Det.SMC-5181 Villanova waiting for you ... There is no Very professionally done on escape! Signed, Neuters and protective
the latest 

IBM and XEROX word processing equip­Happy 6-day, Brian. Grea~y relieved friends
Need a ride to ROCHESTER/ upstate NY BENDO Ia having a PARTY on FRIDAY

ment. Please call 287-5157. Will deliver you're legal. Love, Mother and Dad. 
for fall break. Will share usual. Terry 1888. S.C. STUD TIX 4-SALE CALL 2116 NIGHT. All FRIENDS Welcome. 
• 
• 
and pick up. Copying service also available. FOR SALE: 2 S.C. GA'a. can BUI x1305 YO!!! NEED RIDE TO DOWNTOWN 
CHICAGO CAN LEAVE AFTER 12:30PM 
Help Wanted Bartenders, Barmaids, GOOD MORNING! This is to announce 
LOSE WEIGHT AND/OR INCREASE Waitresses. Apply at CHIPS or call am selling 4 S.C. GA's & 1 student. Best FRI. OCT. 19 CALL ED AT 2230 the first annual "We love Sheila" bash on ARE YOU INTO BIRTHDAY SUITS?~ YOUR ENERGY NOW1 IT'S NATURAL; 2334858 now . Ofter. Call Mike at 2047. Thursday at8:00 p.m. in the Faculty room. Then come and see DUFF IN THE BUFF NO DRUGS, SIDE EFFECTS OF ARTIFI­GROSSE PTE. or DE'TROIT need ride for 
Guest of honor is SHEILA O'CONNOR. 
on 10/20. Will she march in the buff too? 
CIAL SUPPLEMENTS. IT'S PROVEN I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE BACK 2 SC GAs 4Sale-Cheap-ROB t 739 break Jeff277 -3875 the one-and-only happy camper. EFFECTIVENESS HAS CHANGED
• 
TO N.D. FROM PITISBURGH AFTER Penn State 
LIVES; AND IT'S INEXPENSIVE. WE NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! 
BREAK. I'LL HELP WITH EXPENSES. I need many Penn State tickets: Hay Gerund I guess you're going to be Penn StateGUARANTEE RESULTS. DON'T YOU CALL JOE AT 2085. I know you want to get rid of them. Sell me NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! careful who you call a wimp from now on, 
PENN STATE\ 

DESERVE THE BENEFITS OF GOOD NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! 
....,........ GA's in quantity and don't be caught with huh? All I ever wanted were 3 GA 
tickets toHEALTH. CALL PHIL BEYERS M-F. 4­I NEED A RIDE TO DETROIT ON them when nobody wants them. That's Penn State 6PMAT232-9164. 
FRIDAY (OR THURSDAY) WILLING TO right, I'll pay. Call3811. NEED TICKE'TS to Penn State. Parents If you have them, call Mary at 1333. SHARE EXPENSES'! CALL PAUL WHAT? Did you say you want to go to want to see first NO football game. Hey,THE FIXX ARE COMING TO N.D. ON LONG ISLAND for Fall Break? Well have 
X1609 they're my parents, what can I say. Please 
DAVID GERARD GONZALES: PLEASENOV.16th. GE'T YOUR TICKE'TS we got a deal for you!! Ride the spacious sell me 2 GAs, or I am in the dog's house. 
COME TO BOSTON CUZ I CAN'T LIVE
NOW•!!!!!!! Need ride to Northwestern/Chicago can LONG ISLAND BUS for only $68.00!! Call Call Maureen at 1333. 
WITHOUT YOU ANY LONGER. I LOVE NEED 5 GA & 2 student tix for South Pete at 2453 for details. 
help John 283-3167 YOU, BIG MOCO. -M.K.G., M.D. 
Carolina, Chris 3055 
Potter take any road trips in the last two FOR SALE: Two South carolina GA'a.
Driving to NO from NY after break? Pull U THE FIXX ARE COMING THE FIXX ARE 
years? Well maybe the crutches will help .. AND
Haul from Spring Valley NY. Will pay gas. PAUL KIM: An rncredibly cute COMING THE FIXX ARE COMING GET 
I'll takatha beat offer, even If It'a under
LOST/FOUND 

your ego. couple-You're not fooling us! 
trailer. and $100.287-7400 YOUR FIXX TICKE'TS AT THE RECORD 
face value. can Mike at239-5323. STORE IN LaFortune FOR ONLY $10 Riders needed from NY/NJ area on Oct and $11. PRESENTED BY THE STU­
Two South Garolina GA's for sale... CallLOST MONDAY: HP-41CV CALCULA­
28. Call carolyn 284-5103 DENT ACTIVITIES BOARD. 
Vince at 1769 HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAUL!!! IN HONOR NO NOVICE OARSWOMEN Need 1 Rider to L.A. leaving Friday. Kathy OF THIS OCCASION. WE'RE GOING LOVE..ASTEAK,POTATOES fl BEER 
TOR WITH MATH PACK PAT 277-6464 

LOST: camera during Miami Game. I NEED SOUTH CAROLINA GAs.272­
SMC4140 TO BRING BACK SOME FRESHMAN AFTER PRACTICE B.ROAD TRIPS TO

6306 YEAR MEMORIES .... GET YOUR LIPS PHILLY C.THE VARSITY MEN D.ALL 
Please Call Pattie 284-5087 SAVE MONEY SAVE MONEY SAVE

CLEVELANDERS:Need ride for READY'!! PSYCHED? 
LOST Gi~;~ D~~i;., Jacket on South TWO S.C. GA'S FOR SALE. 283-1503 THE ABOVE. K.B. AT ·BOSTON, MAY MONEY SAVE MONEY SAVE MONEY
break?Check list by ride board. 

FRANK BE WITH YOU .. TI 5'S...GO NO
Quad, Sun. 10-7. has Chicago bus pass in !!!!!!!!!! GOING TO CHICAGO FOR 
ATIENTION: Only two more shopping CREW!!!
found, return 2 SO. CAROLINA GA'S FOR SALE­BREAK! THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES
pocket. If please to You have the opportunity to make my CALL LAURA AT 2764 days u~til Margo Kirchner's birthday. A IS
OBSERVER. third floor LaFortune BOARD RUNNING BUSES FROM
break days pass by in a peaceful, tension­few priority gifts: "''66 Mustang conver­A TASTE OF THE WORLD N.D. TO OHARE AT 3P.M.
free bliss by telling me that you have room tible (black or red) a new bike ijust like the A TASTE OF THE WORLD 
LOST:PAIR OF EYEGLASSES. TAN FRIDAY,OCT.19THANDAT4P.M. SAT.
returning from OMAHA TO NO. Now how one that was stolen) phone answering A TASTE OF THE WORLD 
FRAMES, IN CORBY'S OR BRIDGE'T'S OCT.20TH. AND F.;OR THE FIRST TIME 
can you turn down an opportunity like this 4SALE2GA's& 1STUDFORSC-1087 machine good music Any and all dona­Coming Soon! 

EVER, AT 7P.M., SUNDAY, OCT.28TH; 
OVER THE WEEKEND. IF FOUND 

to be noble? Be a sweetie and make my tions should be sent to 351 Badin, or just WE WILL BRING STUDENTS BACK TOPLEASE CALL 2681. 
day; Sue4144 2 SC GA's FOR SALE JEFF '3500 call 3814 and wish Margo a Happy 
N.D. FROM OHARE. COST IS ONLY $10 Birthday. Brian Roney, Month 7 just keeps getting 
EACH WAY AND SIGNUPS ARE AT THE LOST: Gucci coinpurse in Huddle on Sat. 
NEEDED!!! Part-time retail sales person­

Have twoS. Carolina G.A.'s for sale. Gall better and better all the time!!!! I "Talk to
nighti0/13 -has great sentimental value! RECORD STORE IN LAFORTUNE!!!!! 
nel for CORNERSTONE. Seeking warm, HOW DO YOU LURE A WOLFMAN? 
Paul at t 762. me" you Genetics god. I guess MendehlPLEASE return to 822 P.E. or call Jill at 
gregarious individuals who enjoy selling was right when he said that pre-meds IF you need MIRRORS for a CERENKOV2666. Thank you. 
family active-wear. Hourly wage $4.00. six South carolina G.A.'s for sale cheap Show it a helpless female at a computer were understanding sweethearts. Thanks 
counter, you need EAGLE CONVEX
Apply in person at Buyer's Marketplace. terminal. for and
Johnt.309 the memories, they have just GLASS!!
LOST A TIMEX WATCH AT AIR FORCE 5901 North Grape Rd. 

begun--L&K, V GAME. IF FOUND CALL PAUL AT 1139 Need 2 LSU Tickets.Call 284-4510 or Jill, you don't expect me to write some­HEY YOU!!! TAKE THE STUDENT AC­
272-1988. HOW DO YOU LURE THAT GUY? CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR CTHULHU:
LOST; WHITE MEMBERS ONLY thing obnoxious two years in a row?
TIVITIES BOARD'S BUSES TO Find him before he finds you! 

Happy birthday to the older woman. 
JACKE'T. IF FOUND CALL STEVE 3527. 

CHICAGO FOR BREAK. IT COSTS Show him a SMC freshman at acomputer
LOST FRIDAY, OCT. 12, ROOM 101 ONLY $10 AND ITS A GREAT DEAL 

terminal. JOAN, HAPPY 19TH, LOVE M.F.R.I. 
MEHAGRE IS THE ANSWER HURLEY BUSES LEAVE N.D. AT 3P.M. 
MARGIE IS THE QUESTION !!I
FRIDAY,OCT.t9TH AND 4P.M. 

HEY LIEFACE, FOR A GOOD TIMELOST: LEVI'S BLUE DENIM JACKET IN SAT.,OCT.20TH. ALSO, AT 7P.M. SUN­CALL. WE HAVE TO GO OUT AND
PERSONALS
SOUTH DINING HALL (RIGHT /LEFT) DAY, OCT.28TH. WE WILL BRING STU­Phil Burke is a Wolfdude! GET SOME GRITS! YOU STILL OWEDURING LUNCH ON 10/16. IF FOUND, DENTS BACK TO N.D. FROM OHARE. 

ME A BEER. THE OL YPIC B-BALL
PLEASE CALL DOT AT 3803 OR BECKY IS COMING! 
SIGNUP NOW IN THE RECORD STAR.

ATIENTION SMC SOPHS BECKY IS COMING! 
RE'TURN TO RACK IN SOH. THANKS! 
STORE!!! 

W3: LETS FIXX THE FURS! SCREW
GHOSTBUSTERS costumeS. Y.R. "Who BECKY IS COMING! 
SQUIER, HE'S A RATII CHI-TOWN,
LOST:a red backpack in the SMC dining you gonna call?" don't forget to bring a AND MOM AND DAD TOO! 
HERE WE COME. LOVE. ZOID. after break. PATRICIA ANN "You may be my lucky WOULD THE MEMBER OF THE NO star, but I'm the luckiest by far. .. JEROME 
hall.If found please call284-5430 costume beck from break. Tickets on sale 
If anyone accidentally picked up a black FOR SALE COMMUNITY WHO RAN INTO ME WITH 

girl's jacket with "South Side I tali en" writ­OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, HIS BIKE AT THE CIRCLE ON 5 OCT
ten on the back and "Carrie" on front. from CARRY OUT TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE Chautauqua last Saturday,please call BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. LIKE TO REIMBURSE ME FOR MY DAMSELS IN DISTRESS! Promote 
For Sale: 2 S.C. GA's call 1808 MEDICAL BILLS? THEY WERE $67.50, 
chivalry and help my roommate and I get 232-0817Carrie284-5172 
ATTENTION PETE LABBAT: to Sweet Home Chicago! Want to leave HEY WAL T!LE'T'S GET WET. 
I HAVE 2 G.A.'S & t STUD TIX FOR this Fri. after 3: 15--PLEASE call

Could whoever took the white jacket and THE COUNTDOWN HAS STARTED. 
SALE CALL JOHN 2835 GOOD LUCK TO OUR VARSITY CREW­Laura/Ann Marie AT 1297 
green raincoat which were placed tempo­SOON WE WILL BE IN THE MIDST OF Be careful M.E.L. S.rape is no longer an 
MATES! TAKE BOSTON AND PHILLY!!!! 
rarily in the woodS near the University­COMPLETE DEBAUCH excuse. Happy 18th' 
FOR SALE: I S.C. STUD TIX call:3052 NOVICE WOMEN ARE BEHIND YOU "Jan, have you seen my awards?" 

marriage complex please return ON THE LOVELY GEORGETOWN 
tOO/!

them.Piease call Janet at 284-5426 or CAMPUS! Joan Happy t91h.Go a little crazy but Kirsten at 284-4389. I'LL DRINK TO THAT, BUDDY! don't let M.F.A. I. get your V! love Dina & 
Comrade,you arefat and stupid and have Hey, it's Smoge'sbirthday! Yeah,! KNOW potato-shaped birthmarks. Vladimir and
-LOU Liz 
IT. Is he 21? BINGO, you guessed it. Ivan
TICKETS 

Where is he now? MUST BE IN THE 
Welcome to SMC,Monica and Brenda !I'm FRONT ROW(of the bar, thai is). Happy 
so glad you're here!-Shannon Birthday, Mark. Guess Who ... 
First organizational meeting of the CINDY 
WANTED South carolina tlx For s.• 

RICfA CARDINALE! 
ATIENTION DAVE PANCRATZ:BREAK
i have one student ticket for sale. Cheep, GROUPIE CLUB: This Friday night at
NOTRE DAME LOVES YOU! 
A BRICK TONIGHT! LOVE ANGIE & JEN COME SEE US, REAL SOON!
Cheep! Call Maria at284-5534. midnight, go out on the quad and scream 
To the fairest maiden of them all--­"I love Cindy!" BILL LANE HAS A FAT DOG!GUESS
COME & EXPERIENCE ONE eStudent AF tick cheap:calll843 KERRY ANNE HILL---Have a great of the AREA'S MOST EXCITING break. Be assured that your knight in ODE TO SHEILA O'CONNOR ON HER WHO? 
FOOD&DRINK For Sale 4 GAs and 1 Student ticket for shining armor shall anxiously await your BIRTHDAY We love you Sheila, oh yes
DAVE MILES! 
Plants and Flower Shop LeMans Hall
ESTABLISHMENTS South Carolina. FACE VALUE!!! Matt IF YOU DON'T COME AND PICK UP return to the Kingdom of Homework we do! We'd write you a better poem, but H.l.'s Old Town Saloon, 213 Front St., Camp. Upon your return, I shall remain in we don't know how to. You are the poet, Basement. Did you forget your sweetheart 
1805 THESE • AT/!!! LOFTS, Niles, Mich., is now accepting applica­I'M GOING TO BURN THEM! your loyal service by slaying dragons, bat­we are but reporters Hope you'll join us for 
on Sweetness Day?Never fear! 1doz.lg.rose 15.00 1 doz.sh.rose
tions for Wait staff, Bartender. Hostesses, NEED 4 GA'S FOR S. CAROLINA. TO­AFFECTIONALEL Y YOURS, tling the evil knights of Calculus and somfit quarters. 
tO.OO.Free delivery/Cash and carry
Doormen, & Bus Staff. Only experienced GETHER IF POSSIBLE. CALL PAT AT BOB Physics, and saving you from the Dark need apply. 684-m4 3055 Tower of the Memorial Library. Your loyal Wolf-pup come homeI 
only(Friday, Oct.19only).ORDER NOW' 
servant---Prince Trmothy I want you beck. I forgive you for straying. Boston area families seek quality SOUTH CAROLINA GA'S FOR SALE: Come out of the doghouse. childcare in exchange for roorn, board, CALL KEVIN 4602 -your loving Lowanda and a competitive salary. Please contact 
SAFE TO THRASH!!! 
HUNGRY? CALL FOR DELIVERY Kate Goldfield at 617-332-6056 or Beth FOR SALE: 2 S.C. GA'S. CALL ROBIN THE SUB WANTED: One rotor cuff, slightly used.
FROM YELLOW 272-4453 Ingram at 617-877-7739 or wriie to The AT 234-7319. 
MO-TH 8-11 pm FR-SA 8pm-1 am but in good condition. Will pay going rate Family Exchange, Inc., 25 Lakeview Ave., 
Pete -you're • gam. Thanka for the for rotor cuffs. Call Gerund if you haveNewton, MA. 02160. MY PARENTS DON'T LOVE ME On Oct.22, KRIST! QUINTANA will be 19. name and number. Have a good lime such a cuff. His rotor is uncuffed. ANYMORE!!! Desperately need ride to PHILADELPHIA She planned it over break so no one could wfth your folka thla -kend. WANTED: RIDERS TO RICHMOND/DC So I have two South carolina G.A.'a lor (VILLANOVA AREA) Will share expenses embarrass her. DON'T LE'T THIS -S.zan 
HEY PETEY GRAUEL
AREA FOR OVER PART OF OCTOBER aala. 

WENCH GE'T AWAY WITH IT!! She's ac­Sure hope you are feeling better and that BREAK LEAVING THURS. NIGHT 
can Shalla at 2810. cepting all embarrassing early birthday 
things get fixed soon .and painlessly. I'd10/25 AND Re-TURNING SUN NIGHT Oh, by the-y. while I havayour atten­DESPERATELY need ride to PHILADEL­greetings in 223 PW. HAPPY BIRTHDAY PEGGY BASS send you flowers, but your morn won't 10/28. WANT TO GO? GOOD!! CALL tion, PHIA (VILLANOVA AREAi for October KRIST!!! 
THIS IS BLACKMAIL! give me your hospital room number.
JEFF AT3859 I juatturned 21 on Monday, and I'm atlll break; will share expenses; call Miriam We have pictures you would like. Accor­
looking for my prince. 4174 I want to bean avacado hNdl ding to the pictures, you have something ROBIN HOLLEY: IS THERE ANY MAN NEED RIDE TO MDWY AIRPORT FA\ If you're good4ooking and available, 
we would like for our trip. We will be in WHO HASN'T BEEN BITIEN YET?1Q-19. MUST LEAVE NO 12-1:30. WILL gimme a call --who knows what could I feel like ... like .. 
touch concerning the drop. EVEN A MAD-DOG CAN DIE FROMMAKE IT WORTH YOUR WHILE. TIM happen? 
An Enzyme! -thirsty delinquents YOUR VENOM. LOVE & KISSES
1045. UNDERWEAR REJECTORS UNITE OMEGA MEN. 

he Obserwr Thursday, October 18, 1984 -page 13 
Would require minimum scores 


Sports Briefs 
The Irish field hockeyteam beat Michigan at Ann Arbor. Mi<:h., last night. 1-0. Sophomore Corinne DiGiacomo scored the only goal of the game un assisted, while Patty Gallagher had six saves for Notre Dame. 'lbe Irish next face Western Michigan tomorrow at 4 p.m. in their final home appearance of the season. ­
The Obsen•er 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club is holding its 
annual nov!<:<· tournament this week. Finals will he today, beginning at 4 p.m. in the boxing room at the ACC. 'Ibe public is welcome to attend. -The Obsen1er 
The Saint Mary's ski team will be meeting 
tonight at 7 p.m. in the LeMans lobby. Anyone interested in the trip 
to Colorado may attend. -The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 7 p.m. In LaFortune. For more information, call Timo at 
287-8264.-The Observer 
NCAA delays Proposition 48 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The NCAA council has agreed to seek postponement of a controversial re­quirement that high school students must reach minimum scores on stan­dardized college entrance tests to be eligible to participate in college sports, NCAA officials said yester­day. 
The effective date of the require­ment would be postponed from 1986 until 1988 under the NCAA council proposal, said NCAA presi­dent john Toner. 
Soccer 
continuedfrom page 20 
Meanwhile, the Notre Dame defense had allowed the Zips only five shots of their own on the Irish goal in the first half. Dan Flynn, who went the whole game in the net for the Irish, made four saves in the first period. 
just before halftime, Notre Dame 
The requiremen~, part of a pack­age known as Proposition 48 that was passed at the 1983 NCAA con­vention in San Diego, has been criticized by people who believe the standardized tests are racially biased against blacks and other minorities. 
Supporters of Proposition 48 said it would improve the chances ofstu­dent athletes receiving their college degrees. 
"It's quite evident from the re­search that there is a disparity ofper­formance between minority students and whites, but there is evidence that there's a catch-up in 
generated some offensive threats, but the team could not finish well in the last third of the field. 
"Our composure in the offensive third was lacking," Coach Dennis Grace said. "That really hurt us, par­ticularly at the end of the first half." 
A great deal of momentum built up for the Irish at that point, however, and Grace said he wanted to keep that momentum going for the team following the intermission. 
The coach said he had intended to process -that scores are improving each year," Toner said 
"So in this two-year period it gives everyone a chance to test that. And if after two years it appears as if there is parity than I think there Is an in­tent to maintain (Proposition) 48 as it is written. Now, if there isn't parity, there will be further adjust­ment." 
Proposition 48 requires that high school student athletes make a 700 score on the Scholastic Aptitude Test or a I~ score on the American College Test. 

ofthe lineup in favor ofan additional offensive player, hut Akron coach Steve Parker countered his move before the Irish could take advan­tage ofthe change. Parker instructed Shaun Pendleton, his own sweeper, to begin sending the ball long down the field, thus forcing the Irish to 
keep a defender back at all times. 
Still, Notre Dame was able to mount several more impressive of­fensive attacks, and the Irish outshot their opponents In the period, 5-4. Most ofthe Akron shots did not even challenge Flynn, who was forced to make only two saves. 

None of Notre Dame's chances provided any points on the board, though, and when the Zips scored, the Irish could not recover. lbe goal came with only 10:55 left on the game dock when Shaun Docking got a pass in a crowd in front of the; Irish goal and shot it past Flynn, who was out of the net about I 0 yards. Derek Gaffney was credited with the pass that assisted Docking. 
In the final I 0 minutes of the game, the Irish tried desperately to get on the scoreboard, hut their at­tempts were in vain. 
After the contest, Grace said he was pleased with the way his players handled themselves against the high level ofcompetition. 
"We match up with their style pretty well," Grace said. "All they tried to do in the second half was counter on us, which matches up to our style pretty well. I thought we had the better ofthe play." 
The Irish may, indeed, have had the better of the play, but the Zips got the better ofthe scoreboard and dropped Notre Dame's record to I 0­4-2 this season. Akron now has won all four of the contests between the two teams. 
The Irish will play three games during break, beginning with Ken­tucky on Sunday. 
Thanks toyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 
0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyr great In virtue and rich in miracles near kinsman of Jesus Christ. Faithful In­tercessor of all who Invoke your special patronage In time of need. To you hove recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me In my pre­sent and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your nome known and cause you to be Invoked. Soy three Our Fathers, three Hall Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. Publications must be promls· ed. Pray for us and all who in­voke your old-Amen 
Th1s novena hm never been known 10 1011 THANK YUU ST JUUE 
~ -~~ -~ --~ 

Thursday, October 18, 1984 -page 14 
Calls for break -up of 'monopoly' 
USFL files suit against NFL 
Associated Press  violations  of the  federal  antitrust  business  of major league footba)l  
laws" by the NFL. it names as defen­ impossible."  
NEW YORK  -The United States  dants all 28 NFL teams  as  well  as  It claims "there is a conspiracy"  
Football League filed a S1.32 billion  Commissioner Pete Rozelle.  among NFL clubs "to create a com­ 
antitrust suit against the  National  Rozelle, contacted by USA Today,  plete barrier to the entry of a com­ 
Football League yesterday, seeking  termed the action "totally baseless. I  petitive league into the business of  
the voiding of the NFL's television  think it is ridiculous to be suing on  major league competitive football."  
contracts with the three major net­ the basis ofwhat they have done."  Since the emergence ofthe NFL "the  
works and charging that "a conspir­ ABC spokesman lrv Brodsky with­ efforts of the defendants and their  
acy" exists to put it out ofbusiness.  held  comment  until  the  network  co-conspirators have been specifi­ 
The USFL also asked the court to  receives a copy of the suit. Attempts  cally directed at the elimination of  
break up  what  it  calls  the  NFL's  to reach spokesmen for NBC and  the plaintiff USFL member clubs as  
monopoly on player contracts and  CBS were unsuccessful.  competitors."  
stadiumsin the nation's major cities.  Filed on behalf of the league by  The suit seeks $440 million in da­ 
NFL spokesman Joe Browne said  New York attorney Roy Cohn, the  mages,  which under antitrust  law  
the league would have no comment  suit accuses the NFL of "numerous  would be automatically  trebled if  
until it had seen the court papers.  predatory and unlawful actions" by  the court finds in favor ofthe USFL.  
In the suit filed in Federal court  which it "sought to perpetuate the  The suit also asks that the NFL be  
here, the USFL,  which has played  monopoly ofthe NFL by making sue­ "enjoined from negotiating with or  
two spring-summer seasons, said it  cessful entry by a competing profes­ making  contractual  offers · with  
"seeks redress for past and ongoing  sional  football  league  into  the  players currently under USFL con­ 
Placekicker John Lee having perfect season with UCLA  tracts" before their contracts expire. Last year, the USFL signed a number of NFL players, including Cris Col­linsworth of the Cincinnati Bengals, who is currently playing in the NFL  
Associated Press  snapper), it's  not  that hard. They  and will report to the Tampa Bay  
make it so easy for you."  Bandits ofthe USFL after the season.  
LOS ANGELES -Very few people  His 16 field goals tie the single­ The suit also challenges the NFL's  
can  claim  they're perfect  in  any  season school record he established  contracts with the three major tele­ 
aspect  of their  life.  UCLA  place­ last year, when he missed only four  vision networks and asks the court  
kicker John Lee is one of them, at  three-point  attempts.  The  Bruins  to declare them illegal. It also  re­ 
least as far as the 1984 college foot­ have five games remainin~ this fall.  quests the court to order one oftwo  
ball season is concerned.  Born in Seoul, South Korea, Lee  possible  revampings  of the  NFL­ 
Lee,  a  5-11,  175-pound junior  started playing soccer "as soon as I  network contracts.  
Th~ Observer/Margie Kersten Saint Mary's senior tennis players Debbie Laverie and Renee Yung receive roses presentedto them by the Senior Class in honorof their lastfall home match. Laverie, Saint Mary's Athlete ofthe Year last season, begins her quest to add All-American status to her . already credible list ofaccomplishments in this weekend's NAJA District tournament at Anderson. Pam Cusick's story appears on  from nearby Downey, has made all 16 of his field goal attempts, includ­ing six in one game, and all nine of his conversion tries this fall. The Bruins have a 4-2 record; without him it's conceivable they'd be 1-5.  could walk," and later turned to baseball. He said he never thought about football until his freshman year in high school. "A bunch offriends were messing around on the baseball field," he  The court papers claimed that NFL clubs strengthened "their monopoly position by increasing their control over virtually every facet of the business of professional football."  I  
"You  never  expect this kind of  recalled. "They knew I could kick  The USFL claimed it was able to  
success; it's anybody's dream," Lee  the  soccer  ball.  They said, 'Why  secure a network TV contract with  
said this week. "I was expecting an  don't you try this?'  ABC,  which  "was  willing  to  pay  
above-average year. Right now, it's  "I kicked it (a football) and those  much less for the television rights of  
going better than I thought.  guys were stunned, I made it from  a  'spring football'  league  than  it  
"With guys like David Clinton (his  50 yards  out.  And it  was  off the  would" for a pro or major college fall  
,holder) and Terry Theodore (his  ground (without a tee), too."  football program.  


THE "FIGHTING IRISH'S" Other Speciality Team, 
THE SHERATON GRANDE HOTEL BUTLERS. 



FOR ··THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE"" ... let America\ distinctive hutlered ··TIME OF YOUR LIFE"" WEEKEND
hotel make your visit to los Angeles more than that all too familiar game 
PACKAGE

weekend ··Road Trip"". We have a hutler on every floor to pamper your every whim and load~ of complimentary services like free health cluh facil­ities. turndown service. and morning coffee with a newspaper. And if that is not enough. we"re a direct dive play into the Coliseum (our location is less than 10 minutes from the stadium). 
~L~­
-""l._. 
~.fS"'~ 
'I J; 
------~~~~~~~"-----­
FOR RESERVATIONS 

TI-lE SHEAATON • Per ni~h!. per person. dnuhle occupancy. plus
CALL: 800-325-3535 

tax and t>ellman"s ~ratuities. With the Sheraton Family Plan. up to 2 children a~e 17 & under stay
and ask for GRANDE 
free in same room with adults in existin~ heddin~. Rate availat>le throu~h Dec. :\1. 19K4. Advance"The Time of Your Life" 333 SOUTH FIGUEROA STREET reservations required. Suhject to limited avail­LOS ANGELES. CA 90071 anility. Ask for the ··Time of Your Life Packa~e:·
Weekend Package. 213/617~1133 Not applicahle to ~roups or conventions. 

The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1984 -page 15 
Interhall football 
Games Tonight 

St. Ed's vs Carroll, 8 p.m. Howard vs Sorin, 9 p.m. Alumni vs Cavanaugh, 10 p.m. 
End ofregular season 

Signed contract in senior year 
Rozier admits to NCAA violations 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Mike Rozier, the 1983 Heisman Trophy-winning run­ning back from Nebraska who now is in the United States Football League, has admitted in a published report to having violated NCAA rules by ac­cepting money in his senior college season. 
Sports Illustrated, in its Oct. 22 issue, says Rozier admitted in a tape­recorded interview that he signed with an agent and accepted money during Nebraska's 1983 season and that, before playing in the Orange Bowl, he entered into a contract with the USFL's Pittsburgh Maulers, for whom he played last spring. 
have come to terms with an agent or a pro team only after the Orange Bowl game against Miami, which ended shortly after midnight last jan. 3. 
But, according to the magazine, Rozier said he signed with Los Angeles-based agent Bruce Marks in August 1983, before Nebraska's first game of the season, and that Marks paid him four monthly installments of S600 during the season. Marks is an associate of Mike Trope, but Rozier said he did not know that at the time. 
Rozier also told the magazine that, several days before Nebraska's 31­30 loss to Miami that gave the Hur­ricanes the national championship, 
Manager George Heddleston agreed 
to terms. 
"We just sat down and went over 
the contract," Rozier was quoted as 
saying. "It sounded good to me." 
After the Orange Bowl game, Trope 
emerged as Rozier's agent. 
In the days following that game, Rozier, Trope and the Maulers said they had not made a deal. But onjan. 9, the USFL club said it had signed Rozier to a contract 16 hours after the game. 
In Lincoln, Neb., Cornhuskers' 
Athletic Director Bob Devaney said 
the university was unaware of any 
contract Rozier might have signed 
or any money he might have 
received. 
Under NCAA rules, colleges are not penalized unless they knew their players signed with agents or pro teams. 
The New York's Downtown Ath­letic Club annually awards the Heis­man Trophy to the best college player based on a vote of I,oc;o members ofthe media. Andrew Cor­bet, chairman of the Heisman Trophy Committee, told The Associ­ated Press the club had no intention of asking Rozier or any other Heis­man winner to return the trophy be­cause ofany improprieties. 
Reinhardt, still in coma, returns home 
Associated Press 
DENVER --Ed Reinhardt Jr., un­
conscious since a football injury put 
him in a coma in September, has 
been flown back to Colorado with 
his father at his side. 
The 19-year-old University of 
Colorado tight end was flown to 
Denver on Tuesday in a specially­
equipped jet, accompanied by his fa­
ther, two nurses and a university 
doctor. 
The flight was nearly postponed 
because of an early season blizzard 
in Colorado which dumped up to 
three feet ofsnow in the Denver area 
and slowed air traffic almost to a 
standstill. 
Reinhardt's flight left Eugene's 
Mahlon Sweet Airport early Tuesday 
afternoon, according to Nancy 
McMahan, a spokeswoman for Sa­
cred Heart General Hospital in 
Eugene, where Reinhardt had been 
hospitalized. 
Reinhardt has remained uncon­
scious and In critical condition since 
he was injured during Colorado's 
27-20 loss to Oregon In Eugene on 
Sept. 15. 
The season had a promising start for the 6-5 sophomore when he was ranked second in the nation in pass receptions. Then, after catching a pass late in the Oregon game, he suf­fered a severe head injury when he collided with two Oregon players. 
Reinhardt underwent emergency surgery to remove a blood clot caused by a subdural hematoma -­bleeding in the brain. 

Support March of Dimes 


The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1984-page 16 



***************** 
.. . .. 
il MJAMI JEW'BRY il : I906Miami3. : 
: TOPPRICE : 
: RINGS*DIAMONDS : il GOLD*SILVER il il WATCHES il
.. .. 
~ Buy -Sell -Exchange : 
il OPENMONDAY-SATURDAY9-6 il 
: 289-6440 : 
DAVID BOWIE 
,J.Q,~~~H.T. m~ 

BILLY IDOL 
REBEL YELL " 
mcluding: l::liol'* Eyes Without A Face/Rebel Yell Blue Highway/Flesh For Fantasy 

BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
BORN IN THE li.S.A. 
including: Dancing In The Dark /I'm On Fire No Surrender/l'm Gain' Down Bobby Jean 
JVC~ 
VIDEOTAPE 

CAMEIDT~ +Gi\oethegiftofmuslc. 
~-·~csc
MUSICU 

~::::::::-:-:-:-:-:-:::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;::::::~;~ 
.... ~~·, ?t-l 4«4 94t Shp .L061 s~::::.:2:•~:fo~u~~~o~~;taff ID 
::~:Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK:: ) South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 277-2870:: 

EACH 
ALBUM 
or CASSEnE 

FREE JVC Audio/ . Video CasseHes! 
Buy 61YC T-120 ancl receive your choice of the folllowlng premlumsa 
University Park Mall  ~  
272-4186  - 
University Park Movie Dept.-Sale or Rental  


The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1984-page 17 

The ComputerLand STUDENT STARTER SYSTEMS 

Flexible, capable, port aGh:•, hen• is a 
Either for
complt>te system that can work with a hugE' seiPction of programs and ac­as little ascessories to enhancE' tilE' way you learn, work and play. Included in this system 
Apple lie 

are the computer, monitor, the Apple 
$ Scribe printer,p/s: u•ritP word process­ing software for writing papers and all the necessary cables and co1mectors. 

The most respected name in personal computers, the IBM PC jr. is truly a tool for modern times. From its cordless keyboard that frees you to move around 
IBM 
and get comfortable, the "Junior" is de­signed to be easy to operate. This sys­

tem also is complete with monitor, printer,p/.~: u•rile word processing soft­a month* ware and all npcpssary cables and cmmectors. 
PCjr. 

-The ComputerLand GRAD STUDENT SYSTEMS 
TllP advanced features of the JBM PC are exactly what you'd expt>ct from IBM Either for -superb. And our system is spt>cifically 
as little as
desig1wd for gmduatP students or those 
who spend many hours in paper writing

IBM PC 
or computer programming. It's corn­$ pletP with two double sided, double density disk drives, monitor, printer, WordStar...tlw Pxtn•nwly powerful and flexibll' word processing program, and all necl'ssary <'abies and connectors. 
It's the portable computer with its own built-in, nine-inch diagonal screen. It delivers all the adV'dntages of portability, without trading off any corn put ing power capability. Tht> system is com­plete (like tht' IBM) with two double 
Compaq 
Portable 
sided, double density disk drives, 
printer, WordStar softwarP and all ca­
bles and connPctors. 

*Ttw amcJUr11 lllUY lw p;rf'alt>f dUt• lc1 Ull)'' c•XISI lfljo( IHda/lt'l' Ill ycJUf ( :cii11IHI1l'rl.uu• Ul'l'll\llll 

A special note: Enhance your system with a \~lwn WP sa~· your s~·stPm is "comp!Pte" we mean telephone MODEM just I hat. lndudPd arP diskl'ttes, paper, ribbons, a Enhance your system With a Modem that 
disk stomgP box. a powpr liru• filtPr (to prot pet your allows you to tap into a local t·omputer and your V'uluahiP data from damagP due computE'r systPm or area tw li).Ollning and otht•r disturbancPs to the flow of and national buiiPtin Plectrieit~·) and, most important. an introductory boards. Yours for dass in how to usP vour svstPill. Also included is just $10 a month. t•omp!Pt e assprnbi,l', ii1st allat ion and tl'sting of your s~·stl'lll so all you havp to do is takP it home and plug it in. 
Computerl.and· 
Collrputt-rLalld rrow rnake~ available to t>ver;.: studt>lll the adv"dntages of .vour ow11 personal <·ornputt>t: Through a special financing pro­gram mll!'d "ComputerLine" we carr now offer four comj.Jlete sys­lE'IllS specifically dE'siglrt•d for studt·nts by our staff. 
At Computt>rLand yuu will find .1 professional and friendly staff to assist you, a complete srrvice departnwnl, a v.idE' variPty of com­putrr classes and a hot line for usE' when you have qut>stions about your system. And renwmbE'r,your satisfaction is guaranteed bE'cause ComputerLand is part of the world's largest computer retail chain v.ith over 700 stores worldv.ide. 


Mishawaka 719 W. McKinley • (219) 256-5688 Town & l'o~~~~-~~~;~~ing C<·ntn· Elkhart Easy Shopping Place • (219) 295-2299 
Monday thru F'riday 10 to ti, Thursday to 8, Sa!urday 10 to 4 Monday thru ~'riday 10 to 6, Thursday to 8, Saturday 10 to 4 
Stop in anytime or call for an appointment to discuss which system is best for you. 
The Observer Thursday, October 18, 1984 -page 18 
Injuries still plague Irish 

W einle may fill in at defensive spot 

last year's Army game, he earned a "He is a sound, fundamental foot-game ball as he became the first Irish ball player who is a movable player player to play both on offense and against the running game," said defense since Dave Casper who Lantz of Weinle. "He's not an over­played both ways against Michigan powering pass rusher (primarily be­State in 1973. cause) he missed too much time 

With junior Eric Dorsey injured when he was on offense and we en and sophomore-starter Mike Griffin were spending our time on pass rush i listed as questionable, defensive line techniques. He has good quickness i&: 
en 



Regular or light

coach Rick Lantz sees the strong as a pass rusher (and) ifhe gets into a en CASE 24 CANS
possibility of Weinle getting his first one-on-one situation, he will be very i start on defense. effective." ;&: 
"There's a pretty good chance Overall, Weinle has a good deal of ~ that Jerry is going to start," said confidence in his defensive game en Lantz. "If not, he'll play at least SO and acrually prefers it to the offen-i percent ofthe time. sive side of the ball. i&:

en.
"He had the ability to compete for "I feel more comfortable on this position last spring, but we defense," said Weinle. "Offensively, 
i en KINGS CELLAR 

moved him over there (to offensive I think that I do some things well, ;&: guard) because we felt we needed but I think my weight and size hurt ~ VODKA 
en

him there. I was very pleased with me in other aspects of the game. On USL. him this spring. We didn't move him defense, I think I'm big enough and i ;&:to offense because we didn't think tall enough for the position I play." 
~ 

he could play; we just thought that Against South Carolina, Weinle en based on the number of people believes the Irish must take away the i around it would be for the better­big play ifthey are to upset the 11th­E 
en

ment of the team if we moved him ranked Gamecocks. . 
i en

the(e." "Pittsburgh hung in there (against BACARDI Weinle, who majored in mechani­South Carolina last week) and 
a:

cal engineering, received an under­stopped them on three or four plays en RUM
. 
U5L.

graduate degree from the College of and all ofa sudden, boom -a 50-yard en Engineering with a 3.08 grade point gain or a 60-yard touchdown pass," rz average last May. Returning for his Weinle said. "We can't relax a bit on ;&: 
en

final year of eligibility, the graduate defense. We have to be aggressive en is currently working towards a and swarm to the ball and not quit i Masters degree in Business Adminis­on any play. Even when the back E tartion. may appear to be down, we can't ~ CALVERT 
The 1982 monogram winner assume that and we have to keep en 
GIN

believes that he is ready for astart on hustling to make sure he's down." i 
U5L.

defense and sees little trouble in For the rest ofthe season, the fifth· ~ shifting to the nose tackle spot. year player believes that the Irish en "I've been here a long time and will still regain some respect. He ac-~ I've paid my dues," said Weinle. "I credits Lantz with good ahility to a! 
,----------------, en
en 
i

Please PAUL MASSON
a:
~March 
.support the 
~ BRANDY
en 
i 
l50ML.
AMERICAN 
;&:
~0.of 
I 
en
WCANCER 
en
1mes 
f'SOCIETY® 
i
SAVES BABIES 
a: 
en.
HElP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
This space contribi..il13d as a public serv1ce. 
i 


a: 
en. 
i en 
a: 
~ 
i en 
a: 
en. 
en 
i 
E 
en. 
en 
i
a: 
en. 
en 

ND Boxing Club Novice Tournament 
Finals Today 4p.m. ACC Boxing Room 

Public welcome to attend 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The injury-plagued nose tackle positionfor the Irish may see still an­other different starter on Saturday, as senior Jerry Weinle may get the nod to replace ailing Mike Griffin on the defensive line when Notre Dame takes the field against the unde­feated South Carolina Gamecocks. 
Weinle, a 6-3, 251-pound defen­sive tackle, was switched back to the defensive unit after playing a back­up role at the offensive guard posi­tion during the spring and first five weeks ofthis season. The Cincinnati, Oh., native who had been shifted to the offense due to injuries on the of­fensive line, started last year's Miami game in the quick guard spot in

.· 
place of an injured Tim Scannell. In think I could do very well. It's not that tough (switching back to defense) because I played defense for three years and offense for one. Last year, I switched back and forth a lot. 
"You always want to do your best and you always want to be a starter and that's what I'm striving for. Either on offense or defense, I'd love to be a starter. I'm happy with the playing time that I've received in the last couple of weeks, but I won't be satisfied until I'm starting." 
The factor that will determine whether or not Weinle plays will be the condition of Griffin. If Griffin practices and looks good, Lantz believes that he will probably start. However, he believes the Irish will not be hurt in his absence because of Weinle's abilities. 
call good schemes, and he has faith in his fellow teammates. 
''I'm happy with the guys," said Weinle. "Obviously, we haven't per­formed as well as we are capable of. We're going through a tough time and we're going to bave to regroup and get back on track Saturday. With the caliber of teams that we play coming up on our schedule, it gives us an opportunity to gain some respect back and show people what we're capable ofdoing." 
Coach Lantz will make the final decision as to whether Weinle or Griffin will· start on Saturday. In either event, Lantz believes the ver­satile lineman is a great asset and one of "the real valuable players" on the team. 
i
a: 
en. 
rz en 
Budweiser 
1hbbl
a: 
~ Pabst 
1f4 bbl 
Strohs 
1f2 bbl 

BUDWEISER CASE 24 CANS
3 2 99
BUDWEISER CASE 24 CANS 
~BARREL KEG 
OLD MILWAUKEE 2J99 
~BARREL KEG 
LORD CALVERT 
CANADIAN 
1151. 


OLD FORESTER 
USL. 
J&B SCOTCH 
USL. 


ANDRE CHAMPAGNE 
CHRISTIAN 750 ML. 
BROTHERS TABLE WINES 
150 ML. 
DEKUYPER PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS
J49 
750 J99 
ML. 


"In My Opinion, Kings Cellar has the LOWEST prices in town!" 
PRICES GOOD THRU 10-20-84 

6502 GRAPE RO 200 N. MAIN 254 DIXJEWAY NORTH 1910 UNCOLNWAY EAST 1621 SO BtND AVE MISHAWAKA ELKHART ROSELAND SO. BEND so sum 277-7176 295·6310 272-2522 233-8430 2'33-4603 

$3299 Old Milwaukee $2799 
1hbbl 

$1500 Michelob Light $3999 
1hbbl 

$3499 Budweiser light $3299 
1hbbl 



~4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------Th--u.r.s.da•y•'-o_c_t_ob•e·r--18_,_1_9_8_4___
P_a_g_e_l_9 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
'rrJ(JR.aurCJ{ N47HANK5, 
Campus
15 FIXEO, tWIN. I?JJFU5. l/Slm, 
CAN YOU THINK OFWHAT's 

NtaJ ANYTHING 8e~YOIJ60, 
50Mfi.7HIN6 6000
'!HAF 
BL£55

ft-5& IJ()'I8ON IGOTTAA5K 
RONAW RfiAGAN HA5 

•8 a.m. -9 p.m. -Bus Trip To Chicago, Sponsored
I YOU.
7H&CM 7 YOU A QlJ£3TION. 
lX)oJ& FOR. BLACKS ? 

by Ladies of Notre Dame.
\ I
\ 

•II
:30-I :30 p.m. -Lunch, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by Hospice ofSouth Bend, S3. 

•I: 
15 -3:15p.m. -Research Seminar, "A Second Generation of Multivariate Analysis," Prof. Claes Fornell, University of Michigan, Room 221 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by College of Business Adminis­tration. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Data Communication for Laymen," Electrical Engineering Faculty, 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by IEEE & Eta Kappa Nu, Free. 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Laboratory Seminar, 


"Stability of Hypervalent Molecular Clusters byBerke Breathed 


Neutralized Ion Beam Spectroscopy," Dr. Gregory Gallene, ND, Conference Theatre Radiation Labo­
CRAZY ~/?PO KlfJ5 

ratory.
AN/l1H£/R WE./RflO ffX./T/CS.. .Jl/57 Ullltr KIN/l Of YWrH 

•4 -6 p.m. -Kellogg Institute PubUc Lecture, 
1$ 7HI5 CQ()VTT(Y 11Jf?NIN& 

"Rural Women and State Policy: The Latin Ameri­can Agrarian Reform Experience," Prof. Carmen Diana Deere, Univ. ofMass., Room 131 Declo Hall. 
•7 
p.m. -Thursday Night FUm Series, "D.O.A.," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -FUm, "Patton," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Sl. 

•7 
p.m. -Discussion, "Central America: Alterna­tive to Current U.S. Policy, Prof. Scott Main warring, Kellogg Institute, Center for Social Concerns , Sponsored by Election Task Force. 


Psychochicken Octavio The Far Side Gary Larson 
•7:30 p.m. -Snite' Museum Lecture Series, 
46 Statement of 53 Facility belief 54 Eur. river 47 Spooky 57 Literary
ACROSS 37 Privation 63 Wordsof 12 Morning 

50 Faithful monogram
1 Mental 38 Burrows agreement reception faculties 39 Wander 64 Forest creature 13 Mimes 5 Keen 40 Make lace 21 Gelid 10 Western school 41 Partners 
23 Alderor letters for ladles DOWN baobab 

42 Number of seas 1 Stinger 26 Measure 14 Mine entrance orhllls 2 Notion for ale 15 He snlggles 3 Sky In China 27 Part of the 
43 Small planes eye

18 Kind of school 4 Left high and 
45 Big cat 28 Count calories 

17 Clairvoyant dry
48 "Norma-" 5 Withdraw 29 School wear18 Derrick 49 Cargo 30 Integers

19 Tear apart 8 Gr. goddess
51 Sea cow 
7 Word with mode 31 Slough 55 House plant 34 Not much of a 

20 Cure·all or carte22 Ale month 
58 Grain disease tennis score 

8 Separation 24 Doze center? 35 Above 25 Cancels 58 Burden 36 Wallet Items 28 Oldcrate 59 Correct copy 38 Corlaceous 
32 Like some walls 80 Russ. money 9 Maxims 39 Cancelled 33 Growing out '11 Otherwise 10 Din 41 Sailor's 34 Hlswlfe 11 Holders for drink 
looked back 82 Wood mottles corn or babies 42 Arch ©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/18/84All Rights Reserved 

TONIGHT! 
KIDS NiGhT OWT 
root beers $1.05 
p
imports $1.00 
' A 
OJ -Mike Shriver 
All shows $1.00! 
Going South for break?!? 
Oct 19 

SOUTHERN COMFORT NIGHT 
'3-~~
Southern Comfort drinks $1.30 

For Late Night 
OJ -Jerry Whooley 

F ~
STUDYSNACKS 
-·. 
. l 
I I I I I I 

Thursday, October 18, 1984 -page 20
S~orts 

Irish fall to Akron I in frustrating game 
ByPHILWOLF cellent opportunities to score. Of AssistantSports Editor course, opportunities are not re­corded on the scoreboard, and a 
Time and time again the Notre momentary lapse in the defense Dame soccer team has been allowed the Zips to score the only frustrated when everything seemed goal of the game with just 10:55 to be going its way. remaining in the contest. 
Yesterday afternoon, the Irish fell Neither team could sustain an at­to nationally-ranked Akron, 1-0, on tack for long in the early part of the Alumni Field. It was another one of game, as both defenses repelled the those frustrating games. opposition before it came within 
Earlier this season, the Irish had striking distance of the goal. Notre established the lead in games against Dame finally got off the first shot of several other highly-ranked oppo­the game at 14: 1 5 when Herdegen nents, only to lose their advantage. had a powerful header swallowed up Notre Dame went ahead ofMichigan by Akron keeper Sean Burke. State, 2-1, only to have the Spartans At 21 :00, Pat Szanto. had a chance come back to tie the game with 6:30 · at Burke with another strong head remaining. Rich Herdegen scored shot. This one came from a picture­the first goal in Notre Dame's con­perfect cross from the right wing by tests with Indiana and Marquette, Steve Lowney. Still. Burke was there but both the Warriors and the to make the save. Hoosiers came back with a ven-Twelve minutes later, the Irish 
PatSzanto, left, Notre Dame's leading scorer this 

geance. were awarded the first corner kick 
season, takes on an Akron defender in yesterday's 

Yesterday, for only the second of the game, and the ball came to the 
game on Alumni Field. Szanto and his Irish 

time this season, the Irish did not feet of Stuart MacDonald at the top
teammates came up only onegoal shortagainst the 

score first in a game. In fact, the Irish of the Zips' penalty area. MacDonald did not score at all, and that is what got a strong foot on the ball but sent
Hopes for All-America status was so frustrating for them. it sailing high over the target. 
The Observer/Uv Cha~lsky 

nationally-ranked Zips in a frustrating contest. Phil Wolfdetails the action ofthegame in his story at right. 
• Notre Dame outplayed Akron for 
see SOCCER, page 13

Laverie prepares to defend t1tle 
muchofthegameandhadmanyex-
By PAM CUSICK Sports Writer  "I've been able to work closely with both the coach and the administra­ performance in the invitational, was the key to the Belles' finish ahead of  Illinois star announces  
With the NAIA District Tourna­ment coming up, Saint Mary's No. 1  tion, and I like the idea that I'm hel­ping the team." Laverie is "an excellent captain  rival Marquette University in the final team standings. "I came to Saint Mary's because I  intent to enroll at ND  
singles and doubles  tennis player  and makes the team feel welcome,"  was interested in a good education,"  
Debbie Laverie has one goal in mind:  says her sophomore doubles partner  comments the Humanistic Studies  Sean Connor,  a  6-7, 207-pound  right away because of the way he is  
to be All-American this year.  Mary Carol Hall, who has known  major.  "I  had  offers  from  other  forward from Zeigler, Ill., yesterday  able to shoot. And at 6-7, he'll give us  
Most Valuable Player for the last  Laverie through USTA junior tourna­ schools, but I chose academics and  announced his intention to enroll at  additional firepower  on  the front  
two years and team captain, senior  ment play from the time she was 12  the best education that I could get  Notre Dame next fall. Connor, the  line.  
Laverie begins her quest to attain the  years old. "(She is) a colorful and  over scholarship offers:"  Laverie,  leading scorer in Illinois prep bas­ "He's a smart and competitive kid.  
elusive All-American status, which  emotional player. I have a lot ofcon­ who  enjoys  competitive  tennis,  ketball last year as a junior, will sign  I know he'll come in and do well for  
eluded her by one match last season,  fidence when I play with her. We get  hopes to continue playing or pursue  the national letter of intent on Nov.  us."  
with  this  weekend's  qualifying  psyched up when we play together  coaching after graduation, and she is  !4, the first day recruits are allowed  Connor,  who  also  quarterbacks  
tournament at Anderson, Ind.  and  end  up  playing  our  best."  considering serving as an assistant  to do so.  the Royalton football team, is the  
Besides being voted MVP for the  coach while she attends graduate  Connor averaged 33.4 points and  13th ranked passer in Illinois. He  
last two years, Lave,rie, a Columbus,  Although she feels that her United  school.  9.0 rebounds per game last season at  will  concentrate  on  ba'>ketball  in  
Ohio native, was named Saint Mary's  States  Tennis Association  (USTA)  "I enjoy playing tennis," she says.  Zeigler Royalton High School. His  college, though.  
Athlete of the Year and was voted  tournament experience makes her a  "It's an addition to the normal col­ highest output in a single game was  "That  would  have  been  too  
All-Regional  singles  and  doubles  more effective singles player, as her  lege experience. I have fun and it  61 points.  much," said Connor about playing  
player by a selected panel ofcoaches  national  rankings  would  support,  makes  me feel like a part of Saint  Named first team all-state by both  two sports on the college level. "I  
last season. She also garners the title  Laverie does not favor either of her  Mary's."  AP and UPI last season, Connor is  felt I always wanted to go to Notre  
of  defending  NAIA  District/State  No. 1 positions. However, she does  known  for  his  excellent  outside  Dame. It's a prestigious college with  
champion.  enjoy the team aspect ofdoubles.  Coming off an arm injury, Laverie  shooting. That is the primary reason  a good national schedule."  
"Debbie  is  a  hard  competitor,  Her most memorable matches in­ appears as strong as ever to defend  why  Irish  coach  Digger  Phelps  Connor was also heavily recruited  
does her best," boasts Coach John  clude  DePauw  University  in  her  her  District  championship  this  wanted  the  three-year  starter  at  by Northwestern and Illinois.  
Killeen. "(She) is a good player and a  freshman  season  and  this  year's  weekend, and if she can keep her  Royalton.  He presently plans on being a pre­ 
good leader."  "For two years I've  Notre Dame Irish Invitational. Ac­ game  on  track,  her  goal  of All­ "Sean can really shoot the ball,"  professional major with hopes for  
enjoyed being captain," says Laverie.  cording to Killeen, her outstanding  American status  not be far off.  Phelps. "He  can help  us  out  dental school.  

Performance of fans is uglier than performance of team 
Contrary to what a great many people around the 
country think, the reputation of the University of Notre 
Dame was tarnished more by the behavior ofthe "fans" in 
the stands and in front of their television sets than by the 
football team's p09r performance on the field. 
Although the recent performance of the team is ·prob­ably the ugliest performance from a Notre Dame football team in the past 20 years, the performance of the Notre Dame "faithful" is even uglier. 
It goes beyond booing the team offthe field and throw­
ing toilet paper at the players and coaches, though. What 
has made the behavior especially ugly has. been the treat­
ment of Gerry Faust, who despite his poor coaching 
record, doesn't deserve to be treated like a criminal. 
It was quite disturbing to wake up on Sunday morning, look out the window, and see Faust hanging in effigy from a dorm window. You always hear that the Notre Dame coaching job is the second toughest job in America be­hind the job ofthe President, but this was carrying it a bit too far. I thought effigies were popular in Iran and other places where events can get out ofcontrol. 
It's been reassuring that many students felt it was nec­essary to criticize the booing after the Air Force game, but many more people, especially alumni, subway alumni, and the national press have increased their abuse of the man they feel is destroying the great tradition of Notre Dame. 
But let's put things in perspective for a moment. 
Fact No. I -One man cannot destroy Notre Dame's football tradition. Even if the Irish lost their final five games this year and all I I next year, the mystique of Notre Dame football would remain. There is not going to 

Mike Sullivan 
orts t:.ditor 

be a "losing tradition" as I have heard so many people say. How can four, five, even ten, bad years ruin a tradition built up over decades? Twenty years from now, people will still associate Notre Dame football with Knute Rockne, Frank Leahy, and Ara Parseghian. 
Fact No. 2 -It is obvious that, as far as the present Irish team is concerned, a major change has to be made. Al­though Faust doesn't deserve all the blame, the only change that could bring immediate results is a change in head coaches. 
There are reports all the time now about the friction growing between the players and coaching staff. This doesn't bode well for the future because you can't keep changing the coaching staff and switching players into new positions. If the situation wasn't so bad, as Faust claims, you wouldn't have players arguing with coaches, seniors waiting for the season to end, and coaches punch­ing holes through chalkboards during halftime in crucial games. 
With the situation as it is now, Gerry Faust must go. Whether it's at the end ofthis year or the end ofnext year, the change has to be made. · 
FactNo.3 -The decision about when Faust leaves rests entirely with Gerry Faust. The school will not fire him ­and it shouldn't. Other schools fire coaches before their contracts are up because they are losing. Notre Dame is different, though, and should stay that way. When Faust feels that the situation has gotten out of hand, he will resign. Maybe he has already decided to resign at the end ofthe year. Maybe he has decided to stay for the duration of his contract. Probably, though, he will decide at the end ofthe year. 
Fact No. 4 -Ifhe stays to the end of his contract which expires after the 1985 season, a lot of people will be dis­appointed. But how can you blame him? People are act­ing so obnoxiously in their criticism that it is making it very hard for him to resign. It takes a great deal ofpride to admit failure. If the person to whom you are admitting failure is gracious and understanding, it is tough, but not impossible, to admit it. However, if the person is ob­noxious and constantly tells you that you are failing, it is impossible to admit it. 
By resigning, Gerry Faust would be admitting failure, or at least admitting that maybe he wasn't quite prepared for the job. But, how, ifyou were in his shoes, could you agree with the person who hung you in effigy out his window and resign? You really can't. 
Conclusion -How about everybody getting off Gerry Faust's back? Almost everyone knows a change is going to have to be made, so we're all going to have to bite the bullet and wait until it happens. Instead of being ob­noxious about it, let's try to be patient. And when he fi­nally resigns, let's be gracious. The man practically has killed himself trying to make his dream come true. He works hard, and whether or not his techniques are the best, that's all anyone can ask. 



