
--~-----­
-----------------------------... 
UMOC-page5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 13 7 the independent ~!Udell! nt·w~paper ~lT\ ing notn dame and ~a in! mar\'·~ THURSDAY, MAY 3, 1984 

95 percent of faculty in survey vote in favor of a sabbatical policy 
By MIKE MD..LEN percent said they would accept a StaffReporter smaller salary increase to cover the cost. Crowe said these two statistics 
Judging by a recent survey, more combined with the unanimous than 95 percent of Notre Dame senate vote on the issue proves the faculty favor the establishment of a faculty "shows concern and inter­sabbatical policy. Yet according to est" in the matter. Professors Mario Borelli and Mic­Provost Timothy O'Meara agreed hael Crowe, Notre Dame's current with the senate's analysis concern­leave policy falls far short of this ing the rate at which sabbaticals are goal. granted, but cautioned that the 
Crowe, who is the chairman ofthe figures can be misleading. "In Faculty Senate Subcommitee on practice, all who have applied have Research and Renewal, wants to see been granted a paid leave," he said. a program implemented in which a "I can only remember turning down faculty member can request a leave one or two requests, ever." every seven years. The paid, one­O'Meara said the faculty hand­semester sabbatical leave would al­book encourages instructors to app­low instructors to perform research ly for these paid leaves. However, and, as Faculty Senate Chairman the Notre Dame Faculty Manual Borelli adds, "renew themselves." states "The University 
Crowe explained that there is a recognizes ...the importance of group ofseven colleges which Notre faculty leaves of absence. The Uni­Dame classifies as "peer" institu­versity, however, does not subscribe tions. The administration compares to rigid formulae for such leaves." Notre Dame with these schools in O'Meara admitted the official hand­various areas of academic life. book was rather unclear on this 
Distribution ofthe 1984 Dome continuedyesterday "Nearly all of our peer institutions issue and said this might be changed. on the Stepan Courts and will end today at 5:00p.m. have a sabbatical policy," Crowe ex­"I would love to see a lot of good Keenan Hall sophomore Ron Kunst receives his copy plained, adding that Notre Dame "is applications," he commented. 
dramatically different. Here, the While O'Meara would like to see average is 16 years between leaves." more faculty taking leaves, he A survey reflecting the feelings of pointed out that a full sabbatical­

Campus Life Council meets, offers 
more than 40 percent of the faculty type program would cost more than numerically supports this opinion. $600,000. "There. will be a gradual 
. Not only did 95 percent vote in

possible revisions to alcohol policy See SURVEY, ~age 5
favor of sabbatical policy, but 62 

By MIKE Mll.LEN rector of St. Edward's, commented part of the directives was passed 1 0­StaffReporter that there is a question as to "what is 3­a party and what is a social gathering, The issue of section parties and While protests, banners, and let­and I think the best person to make the "limit of two hall formals per 

Parietals rules debated 

ters to the editor have given the ad­that decision is a rector." Alumni semester" was discussed. Gibson ministration the message regarding Rector Father George Rozum con­questioned, "Why do we suddenly ByJAMES JANSEN present parietals rules and their en­student viewpoint on the alcohol curred, stating that n determining come to a point to decide that stu­News Staff forcement have many "grey areas" 
policy and subsequent directives, the maximum capa( ty of a room, dents aren't responsible enough to and that hopefully the report would they have done only that: given a descriptive terms lik..: "any gather­have one party or two parties or 12 
A five-page report drawn up by help clear them up. message. Yesterday's Campus life ing which has excessive noise and parties?" 
the Judicial Council Committee on The Parietals Committee feels a Council was the first time that stu­disturbs the rights ofothers" should Roemer was against having many 
Parietals was issued at last night's distinction should be made between dents, faculty, rectors, and ad­be employed. David also was in favor formals or section parties. "If there Judicial Council meeting. The coun­premarital sex and overnight parie­ministrators talked about possible ofleaving the decision up to the rec­are 12 of them per semester, I think 
cil is comprised of Judicial Coor­tal violations. Recommendations revisions to the directives in a tors, adding, "If alcohol is present, it will degenerate to a party room." A dinator Bob Gleason and four other regarding the revision of present recognized campus body. what determines a party should be motion to suggest just having two students. punishment for parietal violations Chaired by Student Body Presi­left up to hall rectors." The section hall formals per semester was Gleason said, "The report accepts will be made through the committee dent Rob Bertino and Vice President was deleted by a unanimous vote. defeated 11-2. 
the validity of parietals but it also to the Administration. Cathy David, the council addressed Roemer saw the "no bars in room" The "50 percent food, 50 percent 
questions the severity of parietals The committee also suggested each of the directives which the Stu­point as being rather non­
violations."

See ALCOHOL, page 3 See PARIETALS, page 4 
dent Senate found "objectionable." negotiable. In David's opinion, bars 

Gleason acknowledged that Dean of Students James Roemer do not give a "tavern-like" atmos­prefaced the discussion with the ob­phere to student's rooms. "They are servation that only the directives cheap furniture and will serve as a 
~Clebek head of safety and security;
were even negotiable. catch-all for storage," she said, point­
"The Officers (of the University) ing out that they are not stocked in conjunction with the Trustees "except during happy hours." have approved the policy. It is the Brother Frank Rotsaert, rector of 

new post to insure safety at SMC official policy of the University," Holy Cross, saw a problem with am­Roemer stated, saying that the coun­biguity. He said that in his hall there ByKATHY A. CEPERICH parking regulations, for a more con­labs. cil should concentrate on the are some structures in student News Staff sistent policy. Under present policy Mr. Robert Foldesi, director of directives and not the policy itself rooms which are so large it is dif­a student may be ticketed one day Saint Mary's personnel, said Chlebek Roemer was confident the officers ficult to classify them as simply a F.B.I. Academy graduate and for­for illegal parking and not the next. was selected because of his would probably agree "if it (the set "bar." The council voted to remove mer South Bend police officer Dick Clebek spent 23 years on the demeanor and his administrative proposals) is overall reasonable." this article from the directives. . Clebek will replace Anthony South Bend police force and was and investigative experience. "His Roemer subsequently abstained on There was disagreement over the Kovatch as Saint Mary's security recently Captain of the Records personality fits the College and he every vote which was taken, saying "no punch allowed" issue. Roemer director on June 1. His official title Bureau, responsible for communica­can provide the protection that we he was interested in the "overall thought that while punch may be in­will be Director of Safety and tions, data processing and photo have to provide." Foldesi added he picture" rather than specific expensive, there are many problems Security. doesn't see security as "macho dis­directives. associated with it. He cited ex­The position was created along ciplinarians;" instead, he wants to 
The "beer and wine only" provi­amples of students being with a safety committee to insure present a community environment. 
sion met with general disapproval. hospitalized because they unknow­better safety conditions on campus. He is looking forward to improving 
David said, "The main issue is impos­ingly drank punch "spiked" with Chlebek is expected to be named security's image. 
sibility of enforcement." Sister grain alcohol. Dillon Hall President chairman ofthe committee. 

Nadine Overbeck, rectress ofBreen­Bernard Pellegrino agreed with Presently Chlebek is compiling a Foldesi hopes to "give our 
Phillips, added "When you have Roemer. "Sometimes the punch gets reference handbook of policies and security officers better and more 
mixed drinks, there is less tendency out ofhand. I don't think it would be procedures to be used by the comprehensive tools with which to 
to get rowdy." The council mem­a great loss_" security staff do their work." 
bers voted unanimousy to strike this Brother Steven Gibson, rector of The manual will give detailed in­Foldesi anticipates many changes 
article from the directives. Carroll Hall, disagreed, saying "I structions of what to do in specific •in the operation ofsecurity. He also 
No one was in favor of the don't see why we suddenly decided emergencies such as tornadoes, fire, mentioned he was "appreciative of "limited number of people in a that students are unable to handle or assault. It will also put into , the service" that Kovatch provided room" directive. Father Mario Pedi, puncb." The proposal to delete this writing campus rules, including to the College.


The Observer Thursday, May 3, 1984-page_2 

In Brief Commitment·to actiOn 
An Ecuadoran orphan. born with her jaw fused shut, opened her mouth for the first time and-smiled yesterday after doctors told her she could be like her friends. "Her expression was just so beautiful this morning," said Dr. Martin}. Dunn, a surgeon at Cardinal Cushing Hospital who operated on six-year old Alexandra Halcazar Tuesday. She had been able to eat mashed foods pushed through a gap between her teeth. Alexandra was in the operating room for seven hours Tuesday, as doctors removed two of her ribs, molded them into jaw joints and fitted them into her skull. -AP 
Afl "apostle Of peace" to all Koreans is how Pope John Paul Il described himselfupon yesterday's arrival for a five-day visit to a land divided into communist North and anticommunist South for nearly 40 years. After a stop in Alaska, where he conferred with President Reagan, the leader of the Roman Catholic Church brought a message ofunity and brotherhood to a country that is one ofthe fastest growing centers ofCatholicism. South Korea is the first stop of the pope's I 1-day pilgrimage to East Asia and the South Pacific. -AP 
Jack Barry, 66, the host of television's "The Joker's Wild" and creator of some of the most popular -and controversial game shows on television died yesterday ofa heart attack while jogging in New York City said Barry & Enright Productions spokesman Gene Shefrin. Barry, longtime host of "The Joker's Wild," produced such game shows as "Concentration," "Tic Tac Dough," and the scandal­plagued "Twenty-One." He was pronounced dead yesterday noon at Lennox Hill Hospital in New York City. -AP 
The number of fatal crashes involving 18­
year-old drinking drivers dropped 42 percent in the 12 months following the increase of New York's legal drinking age from 18 to 19, a top state: official said yesterday. Robert Shear, director of the state Division of Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse, also said that the number of 18-year-olds involved in alcohol-related crashes decreased by 25 percent during the same period. the state's legal drinking age, which had stood at 18 since the end ofProhibition, was raised to 19 in December 1982. -AP 
A Dallas Countygrand jury has indicted two sisters on charges of shopping for a hit man to kill their husbands. Dorothy WattsScrivano, 53, and Lawayne Watts Bancker, 45, ofGarland were arrested April 24 and charged with soliciting capital murder after they allegedly gave undercover agents a $1, 100 downpayment on a death contract. Pollee said the pair eventually planned to pay Sl 5,000 for the slayings to collect S90,000 each on the!r husb~?ds' life insurance policies. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Navy ROTC Unit will hold its annual spring awards ceremony at 4:30 p.m. today in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Many outstanding midshipmen of the battalion will be honored for their achievements ofthe past academic year. Local and national organizations will have representatives in attendance to present awards. Some of tht· awards to be presented are in memory of Notre Dame Navy ROTC midshipmen who have given their lives in the st·rvice of their country. -The Observer 
Weather 
A wet cantpus today with a ncar 1oo pcrn:nt chance of rain today. Thunderstorms pos­sible. Windy and cool with high in the upper 50s. A 60 pcn:cnt chance of rain tonight. Windy and cooler with low around 40. Windy and colder friday with a chance ofshowers and a high in the low to mill 40s. -AP 

The1Jbserver_ 
The Observer (liSPS 599 2-4000) is puhli,hrd Monday through Friday and on homt· football Saturdays, except during exam and vat·ation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of the llniverslty of Nurrr l>amr and Saint Mary's College. Subscription' may ht· pun·hasrd for Sl~ per year (SiS per srmcstcr)"hy writing The Observer, 
P.O. !lox Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
The Observer ts a member<•I" The A.•­soclated Press. All reproduction righh art· rt·servctl. 
Today's issue was produced hr: 
Design liditor......................... Susan O'Hara lJesigtl Assistant ........... Maureen Murphy Typesel/ers ............................ Carol and Ted Slotrnan ..................................... Steve Foster News Editor........................... Marc Ramirez Copy liditor...............................)ohn Heasly Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic Vieu•point Layout ................... Mary Dolan ND Da)' l:"ditor................... Melinda Moorr .\MC D~l)' Editor... ........ Maggie O'Connell Ad /Jesign ....................................... Paul Slota PbtJftJgrapber ............................ )avicr Oliva 

a vitafPart of the plan 
A new student center is not on the planning board. But once the plans for the renovation of Lafortune are 
0

complete. students might not recognize the former Sarah H am i1t0 n 
science building. . The Lafortune Renovation Committee has just sub-News Editor mitted its "LaFortune Student Center: Building Program ------------------. · · · 
1 

summary" to Executive Assistant to the President Inside Thursday father David Tyson. Included in this summary are plans iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
for a student media center, a commercial zone, an un­dergraduate club, and recreation leisure areas. 
If all of the ideas submitted by Director of Student AffairsJames McDonnell and the five students that com­prised the Renovation Glmmittee are executed, the so­cial life at Notre Dame, or lack thereof, should be incredibly improved. 
If. 
And when. 
The report of the committee is the first step forward taken toward refurbishing the center. According to Tyson, the administration 
gave that committee the reins in creating a plan for renovating the student center. 
That is where things stand now. from studying the committee's report it is apparent that its members spent much time analyzing the needs of the students, and the best ways of utilizing Lafortune to satisfy those needs. But when will students ever realize the work of this committee? 
Whether or not it is coincidence, the fact remains that the students have been offered a renovated student center within weeks of the 

was waiting for a viable plan issuance of a new alcohol from the students before policy that will take away beginning any work. the student's beer. Alcohol 
This must be one of the will be banned for all stu­ftrst times the administra­dents under the age of 21 as tion has waited for student of next semester. When will input before making a major the social alternative decision affecting students. promised the students be 
If past experience is any ready? So much of the plan indication, there must have hinges on the approval of been many more significant the Officers, from the exten­reasons why the administra­sion of three floors, down to tion was waiting. the purchasing of a large­
Whatever the reason, the screen television. administration postponed a Even more essential than decision. Now that the com­the O.K. of the officers is the mittee has presented its basic commitment of the ad­report it is full steam ahead, ministration. Concern for right? student life has been verbal­
Not quite. 
After architects draw preliminary sketches based on the report, a process which Tyson said normally takes three or four weeks, (but remember, this is Notre Dame), the Officers must approve the plans. And ifthey don't, then what happens? Is it back to the drawing board? Or does the Center get shelved for a while? 
Even if the Officers do give the plans their O.K., fun­ding must be provided. Tyson himselfadmitted cost has been a problem. Extending the Huddle eastward creat­ing a patio terrace for outdoor dining, building addi­tional floors on top above the pool room, and installing an elevator, to name a few of the major construction jobs suggested, would require large sums of money, especially since these additions are to a 100-year old building. 
Credit must be given where credit is due. The Univer­sity is finally admitting that Lafortune is inadequate as a student center. The University even created a commit­tee, the majority ofwhose members are students, and it 

ly expressed a number of 
•imes. But what ifa new-and-improved Lafortune is not 'inished until 1994? What are students supposed to do in the interim? They are left with an inadequate facility and an administraton that seemingly does not care. Now is the administration's chance to prove their com­mitment to the students through action. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion· In the form ofan unsigned, large-print, wide-· column anicle on the VIewpoint page. These. columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board All other colu~ns. on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board orTbe Observer staff. 

Looking for something to fill those long dull evenings? 
time for previous experience necessary, but and a sense of humor both essential. valuable layout skills have fun too. Stop by Lafortune office this for an application info. Questions 
opportunity? Margaret at 239-5303. 

..·""-... .· 'l 

The Observer Thursday, May 3, 1984 -page 3 
OBUD asks students about alcohol 
By MIRIAM Hll.L 
StaffReporter 
Ombudsman telephoned more than 250 students last Wednesday, April 25, to survey student attitudes toward alcohol, according to Om­budsman Director Henry Sienkiewicz. A similar survey was taken in 1975. 
The purpose ofthe survey "was to see whether student attitude has changed since the 1975 survey," Sienkeiwicz said. Sienkewicz and other pollsters chose students ran­domly from the Notre Dame direc­tory. and asked eight questions, including how often they consume alcohol, whether alcohol is a detri­ment to the Notre Dame com­munity, and whether there should 
be official University guidelines concerning student use ofalcohol. 
The 1975 and 1984 surveys yielded basically the same results, with approximately 49 percent of the students responding that they consume alcohol more than once per week and 43 percent less than once per week in both surveys. Ninety percent of the students in 1975 and 1984 replied alcohol was not a detriment to the Notre Dame community. 
The most noticeable difference between the two surveys occurred in response to the question of offi­cial University guidelines on the use ofalcohol. In 1975, only 42 percent agreed the University should estab­lish rules governing the use of ac­hohol. Last week's survey showed 

Everything
BEER you
always
Old Milwaukee or w·~nted
•

Old Milwaukee 1n~ 
~ight 
~iller Lite Michelobor Mich Light
24boHies 
Guiness 
Stout 
24boHies 
Busch 
LP 
Bud Light
LP 

:=: QUARTS 


7.99 7.99 8.99 9.99 
7.99 2.29 6.99 

ueer.
5.99 7.99 
9.49 
17.99 6.99 8.49 
: j~ 
. •' .: 
Old Milwaukee 6.99
: =~ :: 
:: ::· 
:: .• 
:: . 
.: r 
.·~: i: 
KEGS 

::H.:·: 
Budweiser or 

:~ . : 
Bud Light 

31.99
holfbll 

::. 
Michelob 36.ggf!>lj~lt~"t 
lil·
holfbbl 
Old Style 

28.99
holfbbl 

.'J1.2 percent of the students felt there should be official lhiversity guidelines, reflecting increased stu­dent support for responsible use of alcohol. 
Over 64 percent of the students questioned in this year's survey agreed wth present University guidelines on alcohol and 74.8 per­cent said the new policy would af­fect ther social life unfavorably. 
Father George Rozum, rector of Alumni Hall, agreed with these results, saying he thinks most stu­dents were pleased with the old guidelines governing alcohol use. 
Copies of the survey were sent to Student Body President Rob Ber­tino, Yice President Cathy David, and Obseroer Editor-in-Chief Bob Vonderheide. 
Bertino felt "the results ofthe sur­vey coincide with the way students have been reacting to the new policy in general." In response to the question concerning the effects of the new policy on student social life, Bertino said, "When you've got three fourths of the students saying it will affect social life negatively, it shows there is a serious problem with social life here." 
Sienkiewicz said Ombudsman will continue with this type of survey next year. 

junior Paul Komyatte was one ofthe participants in yesterday afternoon's inaugural "open microphone" held on the new Fieldhouse Mall. The event seroed as a forum for students to express their opinion on issues ranging from campus to interna­tional topics. Paul addressed himself to the subject ofthe United States' intervention in Nicaragua. 

LIQUOR Wild Turkey
750ml 86 proof 
King Cellar 
Vodka 
1.75l 
King Cellar Rum 
1.75l 
King Cellar Tequila
1.75l 
Everclear 
750ml ANDRE Champagnes
750ml 
HenkeII Champagne
750ml 
TAP DEPOSIT NOW ONLY $30.00 

Alcohol 
continuedfrom page I 
accomodation," he said, giving the empirical example of Notre Dame's steady rise in other areas of faculty concern. In salaries, O'Meara said "in 1979, Notre Dame ranked 90th out of 198 schools at the Assistant Professor level, while the lbiversity moved up to 18th in 1982." He alluded to similar pay increases in the other levels ofinstruction. 
The provost pointed out that the 
faculty report was only a resolution. The faculty must "actually make a proposal," he said, adding that per­haps the current system, if better publicized, might be better than a set policy. 
"It's a much more difficult ques­tion than it appears on the surface," O'Meara said. "It's a matter of priorities" and "it's always a tug-of­war (for the budget)." 
Borelli commented on the impor­tance of a sabbatical program. "Twenty to 25 years ago, the univer­sity was less exellence oriented. If that is the aim ofthe university, then periods of refreshment and learning are needed byproducts." Crowe added, "I think this is one ofthe most important projects the faculty senate has had to face in a long time." 
O'Meara seemed optomistic . about the future of leaves at Notre Dame. "! hope this discussion will encourage people to plan proposals," he commented, also saying "I don't believe that there will be a dramatic increase in requests, though." 
Correction 
Due to an error in yesterday's Ob­seroer, yesterday's Campus Life Council meeting was incorrectly reported as being held in Flanner's party room. The council was held last night in Alumni's party room. The Observer regrets the error. 
· ~ Support the 
_~ ~!~DEC~tQjfo!l~ 


The Observer Thursday, May 3, 1984-page 4 

Parietals 
continuedfrom page 1 
changes irrthe times when parietals 
arc enforced. According to Gleason, 
"People have hecn dismissed from 
the University for simply visiting the 
opposite sex too long." He added, 
"Students can he: together in class at 
9 a.m. hut not in their friend's dorm 
at the same time." 
The Judicial Coundl Committee 
on Parietals stroogly supports the 
University's stand on premarital sex. 
The committee's final report on the 
topic states, "As a Christian, Catholic 
university, Notre Dame can never 
condone premarital sexual inter· 
course hy Notre Dame students." 
On the issue of parietal violation punishment Gleason said, "the penalty outweighs the crime" in many circumstances. In a dissenting opinion appendnl to the rt·port, he said, "Overnight parietal violation should result in loss of on-campus housing. This punishment would he ·more in line with the nature of the violation than the present policy." Sinc.:c: overnl~o~ht parietal violations do not a:-.sumt· sexual intercourse, dismissal or su~pc:nsion from the 

--gQowe~g fp~ aQQ occagLoVtg~~ 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway· 23l-33S4i 
University seems too severe to 
.Gleason. 
Jeanine Gozdecki, a member of· the committee , said, "We felt one violation should not constitute dis· missal from the University .... The point is there should be some flexibility." For example, students now may be dismissed from Notre Dame for falling asleep in a room with a member of the opposite sex without proofofsexual relations. 
The Committee, however, does support most of the University's sys· tern ofparictals. They mark an end to an evening's socializing and ensure quiet times for study and sleep, states the committee's Parietal Report. 
The council meeting concluded with some discussion concerning the alcohol policy. Gleason has drawn up an extensive 1 1-page proposal to the Administration concerning the implementation of the new alcohol policy. 
A copy of the Judicial Council By· Laws was also distributed at the meeting. Gleason noted this was the firt time the by-laws have heen revised since the Judicial Board's 
I977 inception. 


TRUCK LEASING, INC. 710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-5871 
.c 


0 .HERTZ N P_ENSKE
G 

ONEWA A R JBUCKS 
T 

v Special ()iscounts for N.H. and SMC Students 
Must book 7-W days in ad~·anceL $/00 DEPOSIT REQUIRED 
A 

TIONS CLASS OF '84 
r------------------~-------l 
Enjoy Barclay's
CLIP CLIPCOUPON 

FILET MIGNON COUPON
&SAVE '3 

(REG. 8.95-WITH COUPON 5.95) &SAVE '3 OR 
STUFFED FILET MIGNON 
WRAPPED IN BACOJIAND TOPPED WITH SAUTEED luSHROOIS 
(REG. 9.95-WITH COUPON 6.95) 
/STUFilo~LET Each entree includes a bot­
695 tomless tureen of soup, baked bread and your choice of baked potato, 
1 

home fries or rice mason. 
OUR REGULAR MENU IS ALSO AVAILABLE 
l ____________________________J 
ST• .RJDE 
0 llolp 8L .W..A~Jaetie .... 
.........................ea-. 
___ol.,__ 'CIIdn, 
FaiiWIIIIM~-oldwllo 
........,.....pec~a~ .. .._.. .. ...ol......tovo-1..._~. .._..........of..,.......... ........to...._Gocl..... 
.,.._...:11.-t...--.toc-to
..,--....c........_ ....,
..-..........................
• ...,...to.....,._. __ ._....~,_to ........... 
.,..._O.F..._,..._Hatl 
Muv-....GiadM. Fw.-.c­
c....,....,_. ........__. 
.,_....,........ St...._...,,__
..................,........ ~. 
~n.N_ .... _ .._._.to......._._...,
................. 
--------------------------­



r-------------------------,
1  United Limo  1  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
II  All STOPS EASTERN STD. TIME  EFFECTIVE APRIL 29, 1984 -,'Clip and Save this Schedule  SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE.  II  

WE'LL PAY YOU TO GET INTO 
SHAPE THIS SUMMER. 
Ifyou have at least two years of college left, you can spend six weeks at our Army ROTC Basic Camp this summer and earn approximately $600. 
And if you qu~lify, you can enter the ROTC 2­Year Program this fall and receive up to $1,000 a year. 
But the big payoff happens on graduation day. That's when you receive an officer's commission. 
So_get your body in shape (not to mention your bank account). 
Enroll in Army ROTC. For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science. 
ARMYROTC. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
CALL: CPT ANNE RIEMAN 
239-6264 
. 

............................................................................................................................... 
Have You SCORED  
Lately?  
Now's your chance to hit that  
Home Run you've been dying for!  
The Student Activities Board is  
sponsoring a SOFfBALL ROUND  
ROBIN TOURNAMENT between  
dorms on Saturday, May 5 •  i  
Picnicfrom 11-1pm  I  
Featuring "The Law" playing  !==.~  
&om 1-4pm  

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.& 
~~lN'~l·~~'~'~·~'l.#_.,.~.~....:.:~<~-i:~.»:-:·""''"''':~·;\•;..;·~·;\·;\v;·:·;·;·:·:·::;:: ,~ ...,~, ......"', .·,•,_.~ ....•..··"6#;~_,.,.,.-.,~"j,.• .. •...·-'..lj..• tl •. 

The Observer Thursday, May 3,1984-page 5 
No bones about it ... ...we need ad designers 
The Observer is currently 
accepting applications for fall 
advertising designers. No 
experience required-just 
creativity and enthusiasm. 
call Suzanne at 239-7471 
or stop up at The Observer's 3rd floor 
LaFortune olfice for anapplication 



VAN LINES Runs this weelend ~-Fri.. Sat. -movies, shopping, dining'(,-Urii~~sity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50~ ltound trip. Pay as you board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 4:00on Sat. 
The 
1984DOME 
isH ere!!! 


Undergraduates can pick up their book on the Stepan Courts Mon. April .30-Thurs. May 3, from 12:005:00 p.m. Must present I D to get your yearbook! ! ! 
Start A line Of Creditl 
Applications Available For: 
MASTERCARD VISA SEARS HUDSON'S ZALES 
.11 -4pm Wednesday, Thursday, Friday in the lobby of LaFortune 
FROM THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
'Gorgar' takes fourth UMOC 
Mike "Gorgar" Gurdak claimed his fourth con­secutive UMOC title in this year's An Tostal festival. In reference to this year's contest, Gurdak said "This was the hardest and means the most. The competition was really tough." He admitted that it was the most fun too. 
Gurdak first became involved in the Ugly Man On Campus competition his freshman year when his roommate said that he was "the ugliest guy he knew when he woke up in the morning." Another Holy Cross "Gorgar" was on his way. Gurdak said that through the years, the most difficult thing he ever did was to swal­low the first goldfish. He never gave in to the pressure of eating worms. 
Currently Gurdak is in the process oftrying to get on the NBC televsion show, "Late Night With David Letter­man." 
More than $4,000 were collected during the com­petition and will be donated to Sister Marita's Day 
resident wanted to sponsor a 
Official UMOC Tally 
1.1ike "Gorgar" Gurdak  153830  
'3rian "Caveman" Crouth  130552  
'10M  70757  
:)ave Sharkey  9100  
Sharon Petro  4572  
Mahaii "Madman'" Tjahjadi  2832  
Dr. Charles F. Kulpa  2150  
Kurt McNeil  1647  
Fr. Beauchamp  1520  
Todd Owens  1424  
Tom "Iguana" Cummins  1326  
Jim Rosengarten  1082  
Stuart MacDonald  959  
Fred Bear  532  
Joe Chan  347  
Camille Cooper  343  
Peter Dittman Horvath  325  
Dave Flanagan  300  
Ed "Waste of Flesh" Golla  300  
Jim Foley  235  
Lon Huffman  226  
Geoff Westrich  225  
Ray Klos  210  
Bob Slebodnik  209  
David Campbell  200  
Tom Cleary  200  
Johnny "Big Tuna" Decker  200  
Steve De Martino  200  
AI Hank  200  
Tonay and Kathy Jordan  200  
Tom Lezynski  200  
Joby O'Brien  200  
Joe Wightkin  200  
Bill Bergamo  152  


candidate, and so School. 
"Cow Hole" Leroux 150 Greg Baheis 143 Daniel Nelson 125 Larry "Lou" Burke 120 Capt. Edward M. Kane, USA 120 Thomas Lamb 119 John Boyle 112 Kevin Laurence 11 0 Eilleen Mullen 104 Dennis Arechiga 100 Bob Boucher 100 Sue Campi Iii 100 Peggy "B-word" Carrico 100 Joe Coscia 100 Mark Cortois 100 Joe Esper 100 Mike Etling 100 Megan Fellman 100 Wes Gainey 100 John HaJanikulou 100 Mike Kennelly 100 Tim Lyons 100 Dick "Monobrow" Milone 100 Adam Parsons 100 Trent Rock 100 Scrod 100 Jim "Hairball' Schuetz 100 Kristen Woe I 100 Robin Delaune 100 Rod the Bod 71 Dave Seghefti 69 Tara "IRA" Walter 69 Brian Potasiewiez 55 John Allen 50 Buzz Beahaw 50 Jerom Boyd 50 Coquius Casavantes 50 Paul Farrell 50 Christi Full 50 Dave "Small Sow" Horn 50 Fr. Ray Klees 50 Paul "Roper" McGinn 50 Mike "Rusty" McGowan 50 John "Martin" Mackmanimoose 50 Jake "The Snake" Mai 50 Jerry Norton Murphy 50 Oscar Oscario 50 Sean "Don't Beg" Richardson 50 Ron "Spos" Way1ula 50 Fr. Maruice Carlton 50 Ann Cortino 50 Lara Reed 50 Glenn Hanzlick 48 Laura Nagy 44 Karen Burtzlad 30 Man ·odie" Kirsch 30 Rob Rici 30 ·rohliMoorrrllin "'ffbosier" 28 Dean Mike Loux 27 Cathy Zeimer 26 Steve Blaha 25 Steve Brown 25 Mike loran 25 Nick Grosberger 25 Danny Harrison 25 Paul Lyman 25 Steve Rodriquez 25 Eddie White Ill 25 Trapper John O'Connor 25 Mike "Mr. McGowan" Mann 25 David Epping 25 
Trish "lma Slut" Booker 25 Larry Williams 25 Mike Schidt 25 Jerry Judd 25 Kary Schulte 25 Brian Broucek 25 John McDonald 25 Mike Dorning 25 JoeCimo 25 

W. A. Mack 20 Mike Smith 20 Tim Zolkie 20 Brian Walsh 20 Ed Lentz 20 Chris Weich 20 Ratzelt 20 Clacky 20 Bill La Chance 20 Danny-OK 20 Jim .. Ugly · Henry 15 John "Tinker Bell" Roznosky 15 Brian Kiernan 15 Steve "Hoopjumpin" Wagner 13 Mario Pedi 12 John Keefe 11 Mike Coronet 1 0 Kelly "Ugly Man" Johnson 10 Braves McDavid 1 0 Dave Stein Scherer 1 0 Chris Shine 1 0 Peter Vrodolyck 10 BobWilkway 10 Gnome Dempsey 1 0 
Rob Unversagt 9 Mark Cammarata 6 Fr. Mario Carlton 6 Kara "Birdie" Amis 5 PauiBass 5 Mike Beahan 5 Dan Buckley 5 John Clements 5 Joe Harmon 5 Kerry Hauenkamp 5 Mats "Chubby" Hiden 5 Kathleen Hunter 5 Steve Jegier 5 Robert Kempf 5 Jack Kincaid 5 Greg "Bodae" Lawler 5 Peter Quast 5 Stephanie Rodriquez 5 Dean Roemer 5 Kim Roerig 5 Dave Shine 5 John Simmon 5 Lefty Smith 5 Michelle Takazawa 5 Gwen Taddanio 5 Kren "Gumby" Uddyback 5 
Lori Heather Merkel 5 Ann Burlage 5 Patti Whitehouse 5 Beth Fitpatrick 5 Sonya Dooley 2 Rex 'Vickie" Joyner 2 

•Joe Malavezzio 2 Jim "Tex" Canty 2 Myrna Lou Babka Rey Mundo Vito 
Survey 
continuedfrom page 1 
alcohol" spending ratio for parties was amended to "30 percent food, 70 percent alcohol, decorations, and cups." The "alcohol in original, un­opened packaging with receipt" directive was defeated by a I3-I vote which opted for keeping the current system of simply "no open containers on campus." 
Bertino presented to the council l)Ver 3,000 signed petitions, marvel­ing at the fact that the response took less than one day. He hopes they express to the administration the concern which students have over the new social life at Notre Dame. 
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 
You wrap or we ·wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka at Logan Mon. · Fri. 8:30 · 5:00 We Ship Exclusively UPS 



N.D.-S.M.C. 

JEWELERS 
Students 

SINCE 1917



FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
Tniversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
View~_o_i_n_t__________ ...ay_,M
Th_u_rsd .....ay-3,_19-84--p-ag.._e6 
Ruppe has been the victim of a bad press 
I am writing to respond to The Observer's totally misinformed atta<:ks on Loret Ruppe, the I9H4 Notre Dame commencement speaker. Having viewed Ruppe's many suc­<.'esses in Washington at close hand, I find it 
John Walsh 
Guest column 

hard to understand how The Observer can so easily ignore her achievements. 
It is even harder to accept your quoting without question the outrageous attacks of the Washington Times, a yellow journal con­
•trollcd hy the Reverend Moon. To say that the Times is held in low regard in Washington political circles would he a great compliment to it. Since Notre Dame is probably not familiar with the Times, and cannot therefore ignon· its attacks as obviously without merit, I would like to rt·spond to the two complaints r:~ised in the Obsenlt!r articles. 
"liberalization of the Peace Corps abortion 

policy." By law, the Peace Corpscannot spend 
a cent on abortions. By law, a pregnant volun­
t<.·cr cannot he denied a trip home for medical 
attention. By law, if she chooses to have an 
abortion at her expense and is found physical­
ly fit for continued service, she cannot be 
denied a continued tour ofduty. 
These things arc beyond Ruppe's control. 

On the other hand, Ruppe, who is pro-life, has 
made certain that abortion is discouraged to 
the extent possible. Henry Hyde, the greatest 
pro-life voice in the House ofRepresentatives, 
is on the public record in support of Ruppe's 
handling ofthis st·nsitive issue. 
"Attainment of her position based on politics rather than experience." Ruppe has remarkable political skills, sharpened during many of her husband's congressional cam­paigns as well as the Bush and Reagan cam­paigns. These skills have been rewarded with an executive appointment. I hope it comes as no shock to Notre Dame that politics is the key to success in Washington. The Attorney (ien<.·ral is not recruited through the classified ads. 
This method of appointment, however, need not he the waste that it might appear ­the key to leadership in an executive agency is also, frankly, political skill. The programs that prosper have skillful politicians, not MBA's, at the helm. 

The proof of her skill is the broad support the Peace Corps enjoys among congressional Democrats and Republicans, with much of their support directed at Ruppe. Another proof of her skill is the support the program now enjoys within the Reagan administration. 
It is ironic that Ruppe, an unknown quantity and the only woman to head an executive agency at the start of the Reagan Administra­tion, may have been chosen so the Peace Corps (a perceived pocket of liberalism) might more easily be cut down to size. Ruppe has not only fought off attempts to mal<e deep cuts in the program but has reversed a long decline in its size. 

In bringing the agency new ir-espect and navigating a minefield of ideological issues, Ruppe has run into controversy with the far right. But this controversy has translated into none ofthe failures and problems alluded to in 
The Observer. 

The agency has recently started new programs in Haiti, Sri Lanka and Papua-New Guinea, and is making greater efforts in troubled Central America. It continues to car­ry a message of hope and grass-roots economic development around the world. It has been a long time since it has worked any better than it does under Ruppe. 
Notre Dame is fortunate to have Ruppe as 
its commencement speal<er. She is a strong 
supporter of traditional Catholic values, and 
she has close ties to the University. Fur­
thermore, she is a woman who has achieved a 
rare combination ofsuccesses at motherhood, 
politics and public service. 
Given the broad support she enjoys from all parts of the political spectrum and from key pro-lifer clements, she deserves fur better treatment than the total misinformation broadcast by The Observer. 
john Walsh is a 1973 Notre Dame graduate. He sen1ed as a Peace Corp volun­teer from 1973 to 1975 In Ghana, and cur­rently is a budget examinerfor the Office of Management and Budget in Washington, 
D.C.. 

Open minds unlock hall doors 
No, this is not another column concerning alcohol or ROTC (though I support the exist­ence of both on campus). Instead, the follow­ing account explains the social prejudices which residents of the less-celebrated Notre Dame halls face daily. 
Joseph Murphy 
Wishful thinking 
First, let me say I am a willing resident of Fisher Hall and am proud of it. Unfortunately, this was not always the case. 
When I was assigned to "life in Fisher," my brother, a former Stanford resident, described the hall's single rooms as "cells" and compared my future room to the walk-in closet in my parents' bedroom "with maybe a window added." 
His friend, who is also a former Stanford resident, told me, "It could be worse, you could have been thrown into Howard." For the rest of the summer, I had nightmares of being caught in a narrow hallway by whatever they said crawls in halls such as Fisher and Howard. 

Not knowing anything about hall life, I was prepared for the worst. My brother was only kidding, but I wasn:t going to tal<e any chances. 
When I arrived, my pre-determined at­titude affected my behavior. 
For the first few weeks of school, when a girl would ask me the dreaded question of where I lived -I would murmur "fisher" as if I had committed some type of mortal sin. If the girl heard my timid response, she would generally say, "Oh, is that on the South Quad?" or "I went to a party there.once." 
The real blow to my sense of hall pride came when I invited several girls, mostly sophomores from Saint Mary's, to the year's first hall party. The girls accidently mistook Pangborn for Fisher and went there. When they got to Fisher, they joked that at least they got the quad right. 
•U'-'• 


ROTC has a place on campus 
The l I.S. military must realistically deal with the possibility of war and be·prepared to act if the need arises. Some of those who will decide how our country handles foreign aggression are here at Notre Dame. Some of thl· future officers from the Notre Dame ROTC units will some day he in the position 
Stephen C. Hill 

Guest column 
to affect our nation's military posture, but so will those students who become politicians. 
One must realize that even though the military is the most visable part of our defense, it is the elected and appointed politicians who actually decide whether or not this country will go to war. 
The idea that ROTC should he banned from Catholic campuses because it promotes unchristian acts by its members is irrational. What ifthe congressman who cast th<.· dedding vote to send our nation into World War II were a Notre Dame Law School graduate? If one follows the logic of the pacifist, the Law School should be closed because from it came someone who acted in an unpacifistic and therefore unchristian 
way. 
A military officer has less input than congressman in deciding whether or not we go to war. This university exists to educate its students, both academically and religiously, in hopes that its graduates will one day act according to the values of the Catholic Church. The University cannot be expected to accept the responsibility for ac­tions ofstudents once they leave here. It can only hope that, through the education received here, the graduates will be better 
Christians and act in morally correct ways. 
The military will exist whether or not 
ROTC units are on Catholic campuses. To 
exclude ROTC from these campuses would 
be to lose valuable religious input into the 
military decision-mal<ing process. By 
educating future officers in a Catholic en­
vironment, the ideals and morals of the 
Church are added to the military organiza­
tion. 
The important question people must ao;k 
themselves is "Who would I want to mal<e 
today's military decisions?" Would you be 
more comfortable with the officer who has 
no formal Catholic education or with the 
Notre Dame ROTC graduate who you know 
has been educated in a Catholic environ­
ment? 
Someone is going to mal<e those big deci­
sions and I believe that it is in the Catholic 
Church's interest to place as many Catholic 
educated officers into the system as pos­
sible. 
Many who oppose ROTC argue that ROTC teaches students to kill and destroy. It is obvious to anyone remotely associated with ROTC that those people have no con­cept of the ROTC curriculum. The ROTC programs are designed to produce profes­sional officers who are capable leaders. 
Most undergraduate courses introduce the student to military organization. Stu­dents are taught the history and purpose of the military. The purpose is not to promote war, but to prepare for it as a precautionary 

measure. 

Upperclass courses teach leadership tech­niques and managerial skills. Juniors and seniors are taught what it means to become professionals and, more specifically, military professionals. This education includes dis­cussion of morals, ethics and duties -and how they relate to the Christian officer. 
A case might he made that, on the whole, ROTC students are inclined to tal<e their moral education more seriously than other students. ROTC cadets realize that the posi­tion into which they enter as officers in­creases the possibility for moral conflict. The ROTC cadet must work out the demands of the military with the morals of the Church before mal<ing a commitment. 
An officer who thinks about the moral im­plications ofcertain actions is an asset to the military and to the Catholic community. For­tunately, for the military and the Catholic community, the Notre Dame administration sees a need to morally educate future of­ficers. 
This University exists as it does today primarily because of the freedom available in the United States. To continue that freedom we need a strong military. The military gains highly-skilled, educated of­ficers (both academically and morally) from Notre Dame. 
This relationship helps both parties. There is a place and, in fact, a commitment on this Catholic campus to ROTC and the education offuture military leaders. 
Stephen C. Hill is ajv.nior,f#p~fJ&l'!f1fffi~r8 , in the College of Science, and is a deputy commander in the AirForce ROTC program atNotre Dame. 
For a long time I thought there was some­thing wrong with my hall, but I was clueless as to what it was. I couldn't see any difference between men from Fisher and those from the more famous halls. I was saying "Where's the beef?" long before Walter Mondale. 
So in an attempt to find the "beef," I invited my brother, "Brutus," to stay in my room last weekend. 
I explained to him that my hall section of22 students contained the Bookstore Basketball commissioner, the number two man at OBlJD, a football player who will be attending med­school next fall, the sports director for WSND and eighl students on this semester's Dean's Honor List. He said Fisher inhabitants seemed 
normal  at!d  rowdy.  He  even  noticed how  
clean  the  hall's  interior  is  (Fisher  was  
renovated last summer).  

Now, when girls ask where I'm from, I say, "FISHER!!!!" and ifthey have never been there I say "That's your loss." And the girls who went to Pangborn are now regulars at Fisher functions. 
Residents of halls such a<; Fisher, Howard and Lewis (yes, Lewis does exist despite rumors to the contrary) are unjustly labelled, and thus social life is unfortunately limited. 
Many students such as my brother spend four years here and don't visit all the halls. I have learned from such a social blunder and can honestly say that I have visited every hall on campus, except Carroll (which means I've visited every hall on campus). I plart to jog over there tomorrow, provided I find an ac­curate map. ' 
Building a new student center will not promote social interaction unless students refuse to stereotype those who inhabit the center. Several students I know won't go to Lafortune at night because they claim its a "weirdo hangout" (how wrong they are). Stu­dents must change their attitudes or ND will be building another "prison ofisolation," not a student gathering place. 
Those who mal<e their living stereotyping are not content with labeling people by where they live, but also by what they do. Engineers are people too (call it my addition tc Murphy's Law). And Arts and Letters majors do know where the library is (;jthough I've only been there once for a tour). 
Next semester, visit all the halls and invite new people into your room (even ifyou have to limit the number of visitors). Increased so­cial interaction will prove that the ND family does not have any "black sheep" in its family and that all halls and residents are equal. Remember, it's not where you socialize, hut how. 
By the way, ifyou hear ofa social function at one ofthe so-called "inferior halls," you might stop by and meet some "real people." I'll be there. 
Oh, I'd like to thank my brother and the residents of the less-famous halls who were my inspiration in writing this column. 
joseph Murphy is a freshman in tbe Col­lege ofArts & Letters at Notre Dame and is the Assistant Viewpoint Editor at The Observer. 
•
I 
l 
ViewP-oint Thursday, May 3, 1984 -page 7 



P.O.. Box Q 
Equal coverage? 
Dear Editor: 
On the front ofyour paper under the name The Observer is the slogan "the independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." Keeping in mind "and Saint Mary's" I would like you to look at the Wednesday May 2,Observer. 
There are three sports articles, one ofthem 
dealing with the ND-SMC tennis match. The 
caption to the picture ofSuzie Panther return­
ing a shot reads, in part, "The Irish destroy the 
Belles, 9-0." 
Please, then, search for the article in "Sports Briefs" about the ND-SMC softball games. Where is the picture of Mary Lynne Mulchay knocking in one of her four RBI's in the first game as the Belles overpowered the Irish 8-4, or a picture ofAnnie Day as she threw a three hitter in leading the Belles inhumiliating the Irish 10-0 in the second game? 
This is just one example of how The Ob­server discriminates against Saint Mary's. I would like to make the suggestion that in the future the editors treat Saint Mary's as fairly as they treat Notre Dame. After all, the slogan is "the independent newspaper serving Notre Dameand Saint Mary's." 
Kevin M. O'Shea Holy Cross Hall 
Rickert was wrong 
DearEditor: 
In a recent guest column by James Rickert called "Teaching about Catholicism or teach­ing about God," Mr. Rickert chastises the Notre Dame Theology Department's new policy concerning theology requirements. Basically, he thinks that by being required t9 take two coursesin Catholicism, a student will be "limited" in his understanding of God be­cause "only a synthesis of the truth in each (world religion) can result in the best human view of our Creator." In putting forth his thesis, Rickert shows a discouraging lack of knowledge, fundamental knowledge, about the Catholic Church, about world religions in general, about the essence of theological in­quiry, and in the process justifies the theology department's new policy. One wonders if Rickert has a serious faith in Jesus Christ, the Incarnate, who reveals to us the· Kingdom of the Father or if he has faith in his own ability to determlne what the truth is by an intellec­tually sloppy dive into the ocean of secretism... 
It is not my objective here to make a point by point objection to Mr. Rickert's analysis. I wish to avoid "endless geneologies." IfJim Rickert wants to publically speak about the Roman Catholic church and its teachings, then he better make sure he doesn't mis­represent it. The only way to assure this is to study it, and two semesters is not enough, be­cause even Mr. Rickert with his one semester of training doesn't seem to realize that the Catholic church has always taught it is the one, holy, and apostolic guardian ofthe Truth that God has revealed. Buddism does not "preach Christ crucified," for example. Or, has Mr. Rickert found his "transformed" un­derstanding of Roman Catholic teaching on Mary, the Immaculate Conception, a teaching that the church itself has declared infallible, 
while studyingJudiasm? I do not know. 
My worry is that more and more students at Notre Dame speak, argue, write, and act on misconceptions they hold about the Catholic Church. Mr. Rickert's case is a clear example to anyone who knows the Roman Catholic faith. The theology department has taken one small step to address this problem. Our goal here is to know Jesus Christ himself, not just some theology about him. I suggest to those who have theological doubts as to whether or not the Roman Catholic faith is an accurate representation and way to the Christ to actual­ly study it, but to ftrst give their hearts to Him. Go to mass and receive the body and blood of Jesus. Go to confession and have your sins taken away. Go to the chapel and pray "to the Father in heaven." Get in touch with the reality that is not made of bricks and books, but of the living water of the Holy Spirit that 

Jesus promised at the well. Take your doubts and your intellectual honesties with you. But go. The reward is peace of mind and eternal life. 
BudMacfarlane 
Senior 
No praise for Picher 
DearEditor: 
Keith Picher expressed his disfavor with Scholastic magazine in his column of March 
29. Though there were several aspects of his sharplyworded essay which merit objection, I would like to address here only one. 
After telling his readers that a friend thought one of the recent Scholastic articles was "Pre-Vatican II trash," Picher writes, "And to think, Paul McGinn dared to question the Scholastic/People ofPraise link" 
I take it Picher assumes the connection be­tween "Pre-Vatican II trash" and the People of Praise is sufficiently obvious to his readers ­perhaps from Paul McGinn's "question" -so as not to stand in need ofexplication. Having been a member of People of Praise for seven years and having read McGinn's articles, it seems to me that the connection is neither ob­vious nor fairly suggested. 
Picher's remark suggests that People of Praise is somehow responsible for the Scholastic article in question, or at least that the article reflects the character or views of People ofPraise. Neither is the case. 
People of Praise neither offers nor is asked to help editScholastic, and there are normally no grounds to infer anything about the charac­ter ofPeople ofPraise or the views ofits mem­bers from opinions expressed in Scholastic. Not even the views of the editorial board ofa publication can normally be inferred from opinions expressed in it, as The Observer often troubles to point out. 
Moreover, the suggestion that "Pre-Vatican II" somehow aptly characterizes People of Praise is inaccurate. Consider, for example, the ecu11J.enical character of People of Praise, its lay leadership, emphasis on the availability of charisms to all and commitment to bring Christ to others and into the full range of our interactions in contemporary society. 
These characteristics ofPeople ofPraise are among many which are in consonance with the major themes of the direction given the Church in the Second Vatican Council 
Picher's mention of the People of Praise, then, in his discussion of a controversial Scholastic article was inappropriate, and failed to measure up to the high standards of journalism towards which he rightly thinks· student publications should aspire. 
Tom Loughran Graduate Student 

Editor's Note: The Observer received this let­ter to the editor on April 2, 1984. We regret any inconvenience its delay in publishing may have caused. 
Students immature 
Dear Editor: 
Directing my letter to the students, I ask: Do 
you who participated in the protest, or should 
I say temper tantrum, at the Administration 
Buildingfeel better? 
Instead of taking the time to effectively or­
ganize your thoughts, plans and actions, you 
went full steam ahead, without considering 
what consequences your rash actions would 
have. 
I truly felt you might have had legitimate 
complaints when this situation came to light. 
However, you and you alone killed your 
chances when you demanded to be treated 
like responsible adults. Never mind that you 
haven't acted like responsible adults, but by 
God, do you nevertheless demand to be 
treated as such. 
Just exactly how far do you think your ac­
tions will take you now? 
It's time all ofyou grow up and face the cold 
realities ofacting like responsible adults. Your 
extremely immature response is indeed in­
dicative of why your privileges were taken 
away. 
And you have much to be concerned with 
when you believe that perhaps many people 
will perceive this issue as merely a ftght for 
Michelob, whiskey and gin. 
Holding beer cans, drinking, shouting 
obscenities and hanging crass banners is hard­
ly an effective way to convince people that 
you're asking for more than the right to drink 
whenever, wherever, whatever and however 
much you want. 
And by all means disregard the fact that In­diana is a 2 I state, and therefore, underage drinking at Notre Dame was a privilege, not a right. In case your dictionaries are non­existent, a privilege is, by defmition, "an ex­ceptional law, right, or advantage specially granted" 
If you're attempting to restore the 
supposed elimination ofstudent freedom and 
rights, then you had better come up with a 
better issue than one which revolves around 
the implication that your social life depends 
so much on alcohol that it will die without it, 
and subsequent~y Notre Dame will be a very 
boring place to live. 
Perhaps without drinking, you yourselves 
are very boring. Ifthe quality ofyour social life 
depends upon your so-called "right" to drink, 
then I advise you to do some deep soul search­
ing to ftnd out exactly the kind offreedom for 
which you seem to be looking. 
Karen Brock-Wickenkamp 
Apple has a worm in it 
DearEditor: 
Several months ago I was pleased to learn about the contractual agreement formed be­tween the Apple Computer Company and the Universty ofNotre Dame which would enable persons associated with the University to pur­chase Apple computers and accessories at a discount. In exchange, the University agreed to buy $2 million worth of Apple products. Unfortunately, my optimism was short-lived because of the poor business practices of the Apple Computer Company. 
Perhaps these manufacturers believe that since we are not paying "full retail price," we deserve broken promises, delays and addi­tional expenses. I do not share their opinion. 
I ordered a Macintosh, an Imagewriter and accessories the first week of February. P<ty­·ment in full was required upon ordering. The salespersons of General Micro said they ex­pected shipment within four weeks. 
Seven weeks later I received the -Macintosh, 
but not the Imagewriter or some accessories. 
When the computers were being distributed, 
some students inquired about the products 
not yet received. The salespersons were rude 
and not at all accommodating. 
I realize that they are merely puppets ofthe 
company and have no control over produc­
tion, but their attitude and their treatment of 
the students were inexcusable. 
After waiting one more month, I inquired about the products not yet received The Apple response? First, they had no idea, ex­cept that nothing would arrive before com­mencement. Secondly, asked if Apple would ship those things not received to peoples' homes this summer, these salespersons replied that theywould ship them only C.O.D. 
Thirdly, they kept repeating to me how "fortunate" I was because at least I received a computer (many people, who paid in full last February, cannot expect shipment until "sometime this summer") and also how "fortunate" ND is because some schools have received even fewer shipments. 
I can understand a slight delay, but I have .difficulty believing that this nationwide delay 
in shipment to universities (Macintosh com­
puters can be purchased and received at retail 
stores when one pays the full price) could not 
have been predicted, given the anticipation of 
sales from 24 large universities. 
Apple personnel should have been honest 
from the beginning and given people the 
choice of discounted price and long delay or 
retail price and earlier supply. Certainly, not 
everyone would desire to wait six or seven 
months. 
What about the S2 million Notre Dame has promised to provide Apple through pur­chases? Maybe the university should "delay" payment. 
Perhaps Apple personnel believe they are "shrewd" business persons. I view them as un­ethical. They made promises, dishonored them and now benefit. They required full pay­ment upon ordering. What an advantageous position for them: they have our money and our products. 
I believe that since they did promise stu­
dents the delivery of the computers, ·Apple 
should at least pay the shipping charges, ifthe 
shipments ever do arrive. After all, the 
salespersons stated that they "could not 
guarantee" the safety of the computers if not 
picked up or shipped upon delivery. 
I am impressed with the Apple computers, 
but am disgusted with their general business 
practices. 
Stephanie Lucie Senior 

Letters policy 
Have you read something in The Observer you didn't quite agree with? Ifso, writea letter to the editor. Letters to the editor must be well-written and typed. They mustalso bearthe address, telephone number and signature ofthe author(initials and pseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Material shorter than 200 words will receive priority. All letters are subject to editing and become the property ofThe Observer. 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does n~t necessanly  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either mst1tut1on. The news IS reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a ma·orit1 of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, lettars''!lm!'lhe tns1de Column present the ~iews of their authors. Column space_ is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varymg opm1ons on campus, through letters,  Sports Editor ............ Michael Sullivan V1ewpomt Ed1tor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor .............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  


Sports Briefs 
The Weightlifting Club will sponsor a bench 
press and squatting meet Saturday, May 5, at 1 p.m. There will be men's and women's weight classes and medals will be awarded to first through third places in each class. The meet is open to everyone, including varsity athletes. Sign up at the Rockne weight room, or call Pat ( 8762) or Mark (I 156). Fee is S2. -The Observer 
The Marketing Club GolfTourneywill be 
held tomonvw on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Entrants will have a choice to play in the four-man bestball or four-man scramble. Prizes will be awarded in both divisions. A S2.50 green fee will be charged. For more information, call Don at I684. -The Observer 
AWindsurfing Meetingwill take place tonight at 8 p.m. at LaFortune. T-shirts, board storage for next year, lessons and racing will be discussed. All members must attend. -The Observer 
Thursday, May 3, 1984-page 8 
Therewill be a meetingfor all interested in start­
ing a table tennis club in the fall The meeting will be in the 
LaFortune little Theater, today at 4:30 p.m. For more information, 
cal Ted Pfarrer at 1988. -The Observer 
A campus-wide softball tournament, sponsored 
by the Campus Entertainment Commission ofthe Student Activities Board, will be held Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m on Green Field. The dorms have been split up into eight teams, consisting of two men's dorms and I women's dorm. Team I -Alumni, Zahm, P. W.; Team 2 -Howard, Flanner, Lyons; Team 3 -Carroll, Grace, Lewis; Team 4 -Dillon, Farley, Keenan; Team 5 -Stanford, Morrissey Walsh; Team 6 -P.E., Holy Cross, Cavanaugh; Team 7 -Breen­Phillips, Fisher, St.Ed's; Team 8 -Badin, Pangborn, Sorin. -The Observer 
THE ANSWER IS 
vn11 vn11 YOU 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 

THIS SPACE CONTAISUTEO BV THE PUBLISHER 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classilieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is :3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­


Classifieds 
ters r da 

For SALE: REFRIGERATOR. works well,  DESPERATELY  NEEu  2  GRAD  TIX.  Fr. McCafferty CSC AB MTh JD MLL:  SUMMER is almost here and soon you  Need a great team, club, organizatiOn,  
LOST/FOUND  $20 call Gerry at1604.  CALL KAREN AT 1365.  Now TENURED Prof of Law Congrats on becoming a lifer!! Your favorrte Protestant  will be going home. Some of us are not so fortunate. Some of us will be spending our  etc. unifier?! Your slogan, or name, moHo or whatever you want can be impressed  

 For sale: raffle tickets--winner gets an all  needed: 1 rider to out West. Going to  1st yr  summer in sunny South Bend. And as if  forever on key chains, medallions buttons  
LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 48, GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC­TANGLE) MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN­TAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO FATHER IN 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT PLEASE RETURN MEDAL. CALL PAUL 272 0746 OR ANN-MARIE 284 5087 LOST-GREEN USMC/ARMY FIELD JACKET-Dad has threatenad my exist­ence If I can't find rt.lf found-PETE 3165. KEYS FOUND IN NIEUWLAND LADIES' ROOM SAT NIGHT CALL ANN 284­5129 LOST BLUE NO WALLET WITH 10 AND BANK CARD. PLEASE CALL 3708 LOST: Ladies Gold Timex Quartz watch w1th brown bend at AnTostal mudpits on Sat, Apnl 28 Please call Kathy at 8663. FOUND: A BLUE AND GOLD NOTRE DAME BASEBALL CAP IN HAYS HEA­LY. CALL MARK AT 1987.  expenses paid trip lor an Alrican SAFARI. Each ticket is $1. Call Gerry at283-1604. FOR RENT GRAOUATESTUOENTS-~BEDROOM HOME, FULLY FURNISHED INCLUD­ING unUTlES FOR SUMMER MONTHS. $300/MO. HOUSE WILL ALSO BE AVAILABLE FOR NEXT FALL 281-3109. Apartment lor rent, summer months only, close to campus. Please call Kathy at 5115 (SMC) or Laurie at 5150 (SMC) lor infonnabon. TICKETS  Caspar, Wyo., but can drop off in Cheyenne ~ going to Denver. Leaving May 15. Call Margie 4416. NEED RIDE to NJ after5/12.Liz 1267 NEED RIDE TO CHARLOITE, N.C. AF­TER FINALS. PLEASE CALL CHAPIN AT18481 Need ride to Indiana U. 5/~5/6. Call Lisa at284-5176. Ride needed to New Orleans. Can leave anytime after May 12. Very little baggage space neaded. Call Cheryl 284-4367. WANT TO MOVE O.C? I NEED 3 ROOMMATES FOR A HOUSE NEXT YEAR. 11/2 MILES FROM CAMPUS,COMPLETELY FURNISHED WITH WASHER, DRYER--EVEN A PING-PONG TABLE AND ALL KITCHEN UTENSILS. 4 BEDROOM, 11/2 BATH AND OR ONLY $66.75/MONTH FOR 8 MONTHS, SINCE LANDLORD OF­FERED A MONTH'S FREE RENT. CALL  ATIN CLEVELANDERS! Don't forget the CLEVELAND CLUB meeting TONIGHT in the Little Theater of LaFortune at8 p.m. Remember your $5 dues! CONGRA.TULATlONS to the Mure nearly-famous Mrs. Kathleen Rollings! It's good to know the perfect fairy-tale engagement still exists at St. Mary's. What a birthday present! Love, your roommate. See ya-bye! Oh, the humanrty . NEED A STUDY BREAK? DOMINO'S PIZZA will be open at11 am to 3am Mon­day, May, 7 to Tuesday. May, 15. 30 minute service guaranteed CALL 277­2151 to order SEXI SEXI SEXI NOW THAT,! I-lAVE YOUR ATIENTION, PLEASE HELP ME. I NEED AT LEAST ONE GRADUATION TICKET. PLEASE CALL ME IF YOU CAN HELP. JACK 7982 AFTER 10PM.  that weren't reason enough to take pity on me, I don't have a car with which to escapa the confines ofthis fa1r city, to take me to work, or even to go to the grocery store. Perhaps you have a car that you do not want to bring home because it Is too far, too much trouble, etc. Or perhaps you would like to leave your car here because this sad tale has moved you to tears. If you do have a car that you want taken care ol for the summer by a very reliable person, call Sarah at1311. Please. OCEAN CITY live and play under the Jer­sey sun. Call Tom at1201 ATIENTION ACCOUNTING SOPHO­MORES PAID POSiTION open for ASSISTANT STUDENT LOAN AD­MINISTRATOR For the Morrissey Loan Fund Call Andy at1221 or Erin at1992 for further information BEFORE FRI 5/4 SYD IS COMING!IIII SYD IS COMINGIIIII SPONSORED BY MOCK CONVENTION ASSOCIATES, INC.  etc. I Ordertodayorwrite for more info: Konrady Graphics Ltd. P.O. Box 174 Crown Point, ln. 46307 We're running out of time. It's now or never. HELP ME HELP ME HELP ME I'M DROWNING I'M DROWNING I'M DROWNING I'M CRAZY I'M NUTS I'M CONFUSED I'M LONELY I'M IN LOVE Lo.-.t Ruppe Who the hell are you and why will you be at our commencement? Mary Healy: I know who sent you da1S1es, but I'm not telling. Senda flo-for adollar! G1ve a fnend a flower to wish goad luck on finals, happy graduation, a great summer, or whatever On sale Ieday at the din1ng halls. Sponsored by ND-SMC Righi Ia Life.  
BILL AT 234-7080  1ST  ANNUAL  SCREW  YOUR  
CHAIN AND INTRAMURAL MEDAL LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURTS. WILL THE PERSON WHO CALLED BEFORE EASTER BREAK (DAN ?) PLEASE CALL AGAIN! ANN MARIE 2845087 OR PAUL 2720746. FOUND. burgundy umbrella, the collap­sible kind, belore Easter To claim call 2914 BAHAMASIBAHAMASIBAHAMASI ANYONE INTERESTED MANDATOY MEETING THURSDAY 7 LAORTUNE  NEED GRAD TIX$$$ -1965 HELPII NEED GRADUATION TICKETS SO BROTHER&2 SISTERS CAN COME BEFORE GOING TO PRISON. CALL 283-1204 MIKE WILL PAY. MONEY IS CLEAN Need grad t1cket Big$$ Talk to me before you sell to anyone else M1ke 7638 Desperately NEED TWO GRADUATION TIX for family who's been walling 4 yrs. to see me graduate. Call NANCY at1349.  Need a rtde to Boston after Fln11la. Call Stan at1401 4 '$ecretary needed: Must be well-rounded and able to take die. Contact the Football Office at the ACC. SUMMER POLITICAL WORK CITIZENS ACTION COALITION IS NOW HIRING THOSE INTERESTED IN GRASSROOTS EFFORTS FOR ECONOMIC JUSTICE AND ENVIRON­MENTAL REFORM. CALL 232-7918  SO.CAL. HAPPY HOUR 5/4 4:30-6:30 at PE--RSVP Carrie 4570 or Terri 4541 TODAYII NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS: Want to put a little excffe­ment Into your otherwise du/1 and dreary undergraduate career? ff you've never experienced The Observer, maybe it's time you did. Yes, any student can become part a/ the workings of this newspaper. We are currently looking for nighttime layout staff members. Learn valuable layout skills and have tun in only  DELEGATE PARTY FRIDAY, MAY 4 9PM-2AM THE LAST BIG BLOWOUT BEFORE FINALS SEMI-FORMAL O.J. $5-COUPLE OR $3-PERSON PASQUERILLA EAST PARTY ROOM CALL TOM 277-4283 OR BRIDGET 284­5172 DONT MISS OUT ON AN INTOXICATING EVENING!!! SYD IS COMINGIIIII SYD IS COMING IIIII  ( Do you have spr1ng lever? Ale study1ng for exams and writing papers dnving you crazy? Do you need a chance to relax or have some tun before the dreaded finals week? Well, come to the Howard Hall Shorts and Shades Party this Saturday from 9 to 2. II is an expenence you won't want to miss. Hit me-hard!  
LOST DURING HOLY WEEK A SMALL LIGHT BROWN WALLET. CALL 239­8010. LOST: SET OF KEYS ON KEY RING­PROBABLY LOST DURING THURSDAY PICNIC AT SAINT MARY'S. TWO OF THE KEYS ARE MARKED 1124. PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 71120 SOON. FOUND-SET OF ROOM KEYS ON L.A. OLYMPIC KEYCHAIN BETWEEN D-2 AND GRACE. 5882 LOST: TUES. •12• IN ROOM 119  Bruce Spring-will not be at com­mencement. but I still need tickets, anyway. Call Dave Dziedzic a1283-3671 or 239-5303 if you want$$$ for your tick­ets. NEED MANY GRADUATION TICKETS, WILL PAY TOP$$$ PLEASE CALL 234­0319 WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR UP TO FOUR GRAD TIX. CALL RICH AT 288-7446 $$ NEED 4 GRAD TIX $$ LARRY 1638 OR1601  FOR INTERVIEW $180 & UP/WK. NEEDED: RIDER BOUND FOR SYRACUSE NY AREA, LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE DEPARTING FROM CAMPUS APROX 12 NOON ON MAY 11. CALL3537 BOSTON BOSTON BOSTON I NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON AFTER FINALS &EXACT DAY UPTO YOU I) WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND EVEN BRING COOKIESIll PLEASE CALL USA ANYTIME 7953 Ride offered to Mass. on May 13. Call  2 hours a week. Enthusiasm and talent can soon lead you to a prestigious paying position. Want more info? Stop by the LaFortune office this week. There isn't much lime Ivory liquid? ALL-SMALL SOW TEAM-Salty Dog, Cr~yman Pauwels, McSkippy;NON­PLAY lNG SOWS-D.A.H.,Vaughn H Mertz Applications for 1985 AnToetal Chair­man are now available at the Student Government offices in LaFortune.  Need male room mate at Castle Pl. next year. Call Mall-1213 MACRI'S DELl The deli's meat was not beat. Champs for the second year in a row. Feeling bored in your afternoons? Never get a chance to talk to people? Well, The Observer might be just what you need. Earn some money and meet some strange and interesting people by becoming a Day Editor. If you're in­terested, call Tom Mowle at 239-5303 in  You're thinking of me The same old way. You were above me, But not today. The only difference 1s You're down there. I'm looking through you. And you're nowhere. --THE BEATLES Usa Gallcki wears leopard pnnt under­wear! N.E.-Happy May, Are you ready to play?  
O'SHAG. UMBRELLA. MED BLUE WITH RUFFLE. REWARD. CALL KATHY 3429. HAVE A HEART THANKS LOST: Wallet wrth all of my ldenllflcahon. ff lound please call E1leen at2n-1325.  GOTIA HAVE GRAD. TIX. Nead not be together. Call Tom/John 6146 or 1761. NEED ONLY 1 GRADUATION TICKET! WILL PAY $$$ ...4305  Charles at 8094 I need a ride home to Utica or Syracuse lor summer. I can leave as early as Satur· day but would prefer to leave Monday, May 14. Please call Brian 1165.  NEED A PLACE TO STAY THIS SUM­MER? Need to sublet a two-bedroom townhouse apartment within walking dis­tance of campus. Price is $250/month without utilities (very negotiable). IN­TERESTED? Please caii2B3-1479 if at all  the afternoon. MARGGIE--BEWARE OF BREAKFAST ABUSE WEEK! THAT'S THE BREAKS. THAT'S THE BREAKS I JS.  Colorado, picmc, softball. Yes this rhyme IS gay But just want to say: I love you. MIT  
LOSLONE GREEN LOGIC DESIGN BOOK. WHOEVER ACCIDENTALLY PICKED UP OR BORROWED MY LOGIC DESIGN BOOK FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL LOBBY ON TUESDAY MAY 1ST, PLEASE HAVE THE HEART TO RETURN IT. I NEED IT FOR FINALS PLEASE RETURN TO SOUTH DINING HALL. LOST AND FOUND (ADMIN.) OR CALL 2138...NO QUESTIONS. FOR SALE  WILL TRADE DOZENS OF YOUR FAVORITE COOKIE FOR ONLY 1 MEASELY GRADUATION TICKET CALL TRESE AT 1727 IF YOU'RE HUNGRY. IN SEARCH OF: Graduallon tickets -­Mark8693 One hcket needed lor Graduation. Will pay$$. Call Jill at6293. Willing to pay$$$ for Gradu811on Ux. Call Dave at 8167 or leave message with return phone number at 239-7757.  WANTED: GRAD t1ckets. name your $. call Gerry at283-1604. Need a ride to Roch./upstate NY. Can leave Fri. 5/11 P.M. or anytime after. Ter­ry 8725/8762. NOTICES COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE -2n-«145. W/pick up & deliver.  interested. DON'T GET CAUGHT ON CAMPUS...DRY FOR SALE GREAT CAR $175 great BIKE $70NEW CALL 1866 MIKE SEND A FLOWER FOR A DOL­LAR ..... SEND A FLOWER FOR A DOL­LAR... . Buy a carnation for a friend, roommate, or co-worker to say: Thanks  Bruce Springsteen will not be at com­mencement. but I need more tickets anyway. Call Dave Dziedzic at283-3671 or 239-5303 if you want $$$for your tick­ets. BOOKSTORE SCOREKEEPERS Thank you for your loyalty and en­thusiasm in all kinds of weather!! We couldn't have a tournament wnhout you. See you at Bookstore XIV. The Tournament Commissioners  Two Riders Needed or two Rides to BOS­'ON leaving the 14th SMC 4227 or 5443. LOOKING AT COMPUTERS? Before you try the Mac or Kaypro, check out the Morrow -­same features as the Kaypro. normal size screen, comparably pr1ced, letter quality printer available. For Info, call Mark 8693. AN EVENING OF ILLUSION WITH MAGICIANS MIKE WEBER AND GARY O'BRIEN SUNDAY MAY 7 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM AT 7 AND 9:30 PROCEEDS GO TO RIGHT TO LIFE. BE THERE I  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME.  for  a  great  year .... happy  gratua- CLASS OF '85 HAPPY HOUR  
BARGAIN: ENGAGEMENT AND WED­DING RING FOR SALE Contact Garry Rush, 239-n35  WANTED  THESES, TERM PAPERS, ETC. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-7009. GET TOP$$$ FOR YOUR TEXTS II!  lion .... good luck on finals .... or I love you...Buy these flowers at the dining hall TODAY. This is your last chance to be nice. SEND A FLOWER TODAY!  Thurs..May 3,9:30 PM at Carlos Sweeney's $1 Margaritas. 2 for 1 Mixed Drinks Free chips, Free dip, $. 75 Drafts  SENIORS...MINN/ST.PAUL SENIORS...MINN/ST.PAUL your moving Ia the area and are looking to share an apartment call me now. MALE  
FOR SALE: Stereo. Price negotiable. Call Vince at 283-3129 FOR SALE: 2 COUCHES. BAR STOOL, RUG, BAR(REAL CHEAP!) EVERY­THING MUST GOI SOLD TO THE HIG­HEST BIDDER, OR FIRST COME FIRST SERVED! CALLJEFF AT 8854 NOWI LOVESEAT AND ARMCHAIR FOR SALE;GOOD CONDITION;CALL EMILE X3770  PHOENIX BOUND, BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239­53130R277-4851. GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 or 2n-4851 . GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,558 $50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call 1-805-667-6000, Ext. R-9834.  Buy Back Paperbacks; Monarch and Cliff Notes Man lhru Fri. 1-4 p.m. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 S.BEND AVE. Come hear DONALD KEOUGH, Presi­dent oftheCoca-Cola Company, speak at the library 8:00 tonight. KEOUGH COKE  PERSONAl ] JUNIORS, JUNIORS: RETURN COM­PLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES, RM. 213, AD. BLDG. BY FRI., MAY 4 BY 5:00 P.M.  JUNIORS! Bring 21 ID's to CARLOS SWEENEY'S THURS. NIGHT! FOR SALE: ONE-MAN LOFT, COUCH. .CHEAP! CALL 8086 SANDWICHES DELIVERED FAST! CALL THE YELLOW SUB AT 272-4453 BETWEEN 8&11 pm MON-THUR 8& 1 pm FRI-SATI  OR FEMALE OK KEVIN (89SO or 8992) NO,ITS NOT AGAINST UNIVERSITY POLICY TO HAVE ONE ...so why not buy my loft? I gotta sell it cuz II won't fl1 in my parents· Volkswagen. Call Terese x4404 Fr. McCafferty CSC AB MTh JD MLL: Now TENURED Prof of Law Congrats on becoming a lifer!! Your favorite Protestant lsi yr ATIN CLEVELANDERS! Don't forget the  
Donald KEOUGH, President of the Coca­ BAHAMASIBAHAMASIBAHAMAS!  This is your last chance to meet those gor­ CLEVELAND CLUB meeting TONIGHT  
1977 Fiat Spyder conv. Must sell. Call  ride needed to seattle or portland after  Cola Company, will spaak at the library  ANYONE INTERESTED MANDATORY  geous hunks. Drop by 150-151 Alumni  Sn the LiHie Theater of LaFortune at 8  
287-7762 after 3.  may 16 call john 234 8493  tonight at8:00. Be there I  MEETING THURSDAY 7 LAFORTUNE  Hall now.  p.m. Remember your $5 dues!  


Observer Sports Extra -Irish in the NFL Draft Thursday, May 3, 1984-page 9 
Brown picked in sixth 
Steelers hope safety can support aging secondary looking to replace Blount 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Spurts Writer 
As the Steel Curtain rusts with age, gradually replacements will have to take over for names in the secondary such as Mel Blount and Donnie Shell. 
The second Notre Dame player to be taken in the draft, Chris Brown was chosen by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the sixth round. 
Even though he was chosen a little lower than he expected, Brown still thinks that he has a good chance to make the Steeler squad. 
"I think that my chances are pret· ty good, taking into account the age of the guys they have in the secon­dary," Brown said. "I think with the versatility that I have because I played all of the positions while I was here will help me, too." 
The 6'-1, 196-pound Brown moved to free safety last season after holding d~>wn the cornerback posi­tion for ~he previous two years. Brown accounted for 46 tackles and two interceptions in 1983. He also led the team in passes broken up for the last two seasons. 
"Another thing that will help is that I have a lot of determination to make it with the Steelers," Brown commented. "I was hoping that I would go there." 
Brown had a chance to work out with other defensive backs who were drafted in some mini-camps held by the pro teams. "I don't think that there was a whole lot of dif­ference between me and some other people who were chosen ahead of me," Brown continued. "I think that it just depended on what in par­ticular each team was looking for." 

Chris Brown 
Brown is not thinking about the USFL because of the good chance he has to break into the Steeier lineup. "At this time I'm looking to play in the NFL, partly because I have a job already in accountancy to work in the off-season." 
Raiders take CB Toran in sixth round 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
Call it stating the obvious if you want, but physical players fit in well with physical teams. 
Stacey Toran, last season's Irish defensive captain, known for his physical play, was tabbed by the Los Angeles Raiders in the sixth round, four picks after teammate Chris Brown was selected. 
"That was about where I expected that I'd go," said Toran. "In fact, that's the exact team that Iwanted to go to." 
The defending Super Bowl champs have been known for hard­hitting action in the secondary, increasing the likelihood that Toran could break into the lineup. 
"I don't really know about the chances (of making the squad) be­cause I haven't looked at their player personnel," Toran said. "I know that I'll have to work hard and work in the capacity that they want me to in order to make a contribution." 
To~an was plagued with an ankle injury during the 1983 season, mis­sing all or the major part of five games. He picked up only 23 tackles and no interceptions during the year. 
Toran, a 6-4, 206-pounder was an honorable mention all-America selection in 1982 by The Sporting News, after making 77 tackles and 2 interceptions as a junior. 
The Chicago Blitz have USFL ter­being with the Raiders for now. ritorial rights to Toran, and have "I'm excited about moving out to talked with him since the NFL draft, L.A.," Toran continued. "I hope I but Toran is thinking only about a chance with the Raiders." 
representatives that he had no inten­tion ofjumping to the rival league. 


Kiel 
"I'm not even thinking about the continuedfrom page 12 USFL," said Kiel after his selection. 
"I'm pretty confident about being had also expressed interest in the able to make the team at Tampa Bay, former Irish captain. and that's my only concern. This is a 
It wasn't until late on draft day great opportunity for me, and I'm that Kiel got a phone call from really looking forward to playing for Gruden and Boyd Dowler, former Tampa Bay." Green Bay Packers star and the Bucs' When training camp begins later quarterback coach, informing him this month, Kiel will battle for the that Tampa Bay was about to select quarterback spot with holdoverJack him. The first question put to Kie~ Thompson and Steve DeBerg, however, was about his thoughts on recently acquired from Denver. One the United States Football League. advantage that the Irish senior will Kicl firmly assured the Buccaneer have as he enters the Bucs' quarter­back derby, in addition to his signal­calling abilities, is that he is a proven punter. With more punts than any other player in Notre Dame history, Kiel had a solid senior year as a pun­ter, kicking 43 times for a 39.6 yards­per-kick average. 

''I'm going down to Tampa Bay to do both (play quarterback and punt)," said Kiel. "I believe that my opportunity at quarterback is good, and I also believe that I can compete for the punting job. I've just got to go· down there and prove myself, then we'll see what happens." 
Although he had an up and down season with the Irish in 1983, Kiel undoubtedly helped himself with a strong finish. In the regular season finale against Air Force, Kiel com­pleted 16 of 22 passes for 285 yards and two touchdowns in a losing cause. In the Liberty Bowl, Kiel led the Irish to a 19-18 victory over Bos­ton College by connecting on 11-of­19 passes for 1 51 yards and a touchdown. The Columbus, Ind., native did not hold down the start­ing quarterback job for the entire season, but he believes that this was a consideration in Tampa Bay's deci­sion to draft him. 
"I think it was important that I 
proved my ability to perform well 
coming offthe bench," noted Kii::l. "I 
did pretty well in that role during 
the season, and I think I showed that 
I can help a team in that respect." 
Kiel will begin his NFL careerlater 
this month, when the Buccaneers 
open their preseason training camp. 

Maune joins Cowboys 
Lineman hopes to use size and speed to earn position on 'America's Team' 

Bell 
continuedfrom page 12 
Bell still has a season of college eligibility left. But having his degree in hand and Allen Pinkett ahead of him on the Irish depth chart, he decided to try the professional ranks. He attended several NFL mini­camps, where pro scouts took a close-up look at his talents. He also made a fme showing in the Japan Bowl in January. 
Bell joif1.9wfurmer Notre Dame 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-­
The Observer is always looking for sports writers for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Ifyou are interested, come up the office on the third floor ofLaFortune and talk to Mike Sullivan. 
All that you need is a desire to get involved in the athletic depart­ment. No previous experience is necessary. 
.._.~---..-..~~~~~.-..~.-..~~~~~-­
ByED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 

Neil Maune, the only offensive starter to leave the Notre Dame ranks, will be putting his muscle to work for the Dallas Cowboys as a result ofTuesday's National Football League draft. 
Although not selected until the ninth round, Maune is pleased to be heading for Dallas. 
"I thought I might have gone ear­lier (in the draft)," says the 6-5, 2 78­pounder from Marthasville, Mo. "But I'm happy about going to the Cowboys. They have a fmc organiza­tion and I would really like to play for them." 
Maune hopes to avoid the shoul­der problems that plagued his early career under the Golden Dome. The problems forced him to miss a good deal ofaction and allowed him to be granted an extra year ofeligibility. 
Originally a defensive player, Maune was converted to offense in the spring of 1981. Though not an extremely vocal person, his hard work and determination over the last two seasons helped him distin· guish himself as a valuable team leader. These q\lalities, as well as his impressive physical abilities -great size and strength and a 4.67 40-yard dash -attracted the attention of pro scouts. 
Although Maune says he will al­ways remember his years at Notre Dame fondly, he emphasizes that it was a great relief when Gil Brandt, the head of the Cowboys' scouting, called him at 10:30 Tuesday night offering him a chance to play pro football. 
"I'm glad it (the draft) is over with," Maune says. "You don't know what round or what team. There's so much waiting. Now I have some­thing to look forward to." 

Aside from just looking forward to making the team, Maune is also excited about the fact that another former Notre Dame player, Phil Poz· derac ('82), will be on hand. 
"It's good that there's another guy ~om Notre Dame," says the three-
Neil Maune 
time monogram winner. ''I'll have someone to relate to, especially an­other offensive lineman." 
To add strength, Maune will con­tinue to lift weights. In addition, he is working to improve hs quickness and mobility. 
"My assets are my size and speed," he explains, "but I'm going to work to get even better." 
Maune will not get much time to prepare. though, as the Dallas mini­camp opens on May I7. 

TII~Observer!I'Iie l'M~ ..,_'teammat~ and fellow Buckeye Tony 
Former Irish captain BlairKiel will be one ofthreeplayers vying  Hunter as the second Notre Dame  
for the starting quarterback job when he joins the Tampa Bay  player the Bills have chosen in the  
Bucaneers at training camp later this month.  past two drafts.  

.. -,. '. 


-~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­• • • • • a ' • • .._ '·"'" '"' • • ' • •• .•. • '• •• • • •• ,• • ,• ,., ,• ,• •' ,• ,• •' ,•.-,• • • • • • • • • • ; o • • o • • • • • • • II' • ••• a il a •• 1 I I I I, II.. II..&,~"-...... 'llo. .. "'I. ........... ' ......... "'o" .. -,. ~ •, '1o ") •• "Jo 1 • 1 r 1 I I &.. ... I ... ll.. '--ot,. ........ '-... ._._._'a ... 
Thursday, May 3,1984-page 10 


Draft 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club 

GOLF TOURNAMENT 
Friday, May 21 at Burke Memorial Golf Course --Awards, Refreshments: food to follow at Senior Bar from 6:30-8:30 
open to all marketing club members 
continuedfrom page 12 
when NFL teams will pick the mem­
bers of the Class of '84 who have 
signed with the USFL 
One NFL source suggested that 
the trade stemmed from the desire 
of Art Modell, the Browns' ag­
gressive owner, to get into a direct 
bidding war with the USFL. The 
Bears, the source suggested, were 
not so inclined. 
As for the draft itself, some win­
ners appeared to be the New York 
Giants and Jets, Cincinnati Bengals, 
New England Patriots, the Bears and 
the Cowboys. The Los Angeles Rams 
also appeared to do well, despite 
being without a pick until the fifth 
round. 
The Rams went for immediate 
help, giving up a first and a fifth 
choice for defensive back Gary 
Green of Kansas City, a three-time 
All-Pro. Earlier, they had surren­
dered their second pick for the 
rights to Ron Brown, the world-class 
sprinter who declined to sign with 
the Browns last year after being 
drafted in the second round. 
The Giants went into the draft 
with two options -pick to their 
strength by using their first pick, 
third overall, to take Michigan State 
linebacker Carl Banks, or trade 
down and plug a huge hole by taking 
Ohio State tackle Bill Roberts. 
As it turned out, they picked 
Banks, then traded their second­
round pick for Washington's late 
first-round pick and grabbed 
Roberts. On the third round, they 
picked West Virginia'sJeffHostetler, 
whom they had tabbed as the draft's 
best quarterback. 
The Jets, with four picks in the 
tlrst two rounds, grabbed four 
players who could provide im­
mediate help -SMU defensive back 
Russell Carter, Arkansas defensive 
end Ron Faurot. centerJim Sweeney 
of Pittsburg)! and tight end Glenn 
Dennison of Miami. 
Cindnnati used its three first­
round choices to go for beef ­
linebacker Ricky Hunley of Arizona, 
defensive lineman Pete Koch of 
Maryland and 31 0-pound offensive 
tackle Brian Blados of North 
Carolina. On the next two rounds, 
they picked up what scouts con­
sidered the best quarterback and 
running back left after the USFL raids 
-Boomer Esiason of Maryland and 
StanfordJennings of Furman. 
New England added wide receiver Irving Fryar, the draft's top pick. to oft-injured running back Craig jan11.~s. released by the lJSFL's Washington Federals, who couldn't afford him -particularly on the disabled list. 

The Bears never expected Mar­shall to be around and they got an­othl'f highly rated linebacker, Ron Rivera of California. Thl·y also picked up potential help on the of­fensive line in Michigan b'Uard Stefan llumphrics. 
Dalla~. whose most recent drafts have been mediocre, grabbed Texas A&M's Billy Cannon Jr., son of the 
19S9 Hcisman Trophy winner, whom they will use at linebacker. Tlwy also may have helped their linehacking corps with DeOssie. 
S.F. Giants halt long losing streak 
A.'lsodated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -AI Oliver's pinch-hit single in the eighth inning gave the San Francisco Giants a 4-3 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers yesterday and halted a nine-game losing streak. 
The Giants came from behind twke to stop their longest losing streak since 195 I when the club was in New York. The eighth-inning rally was offrelievers Tom Niedenfuer, 0­2, and Carlos Diaz. 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
NEEDS VOLUNTEERS: FOR CREDIT CARD SALES INLAFORTUNELOBBY WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, AND FRIDAYt 11AM · 4PM ·SPLIT SHIFTS AVAILABLE COMMISSION: 50 CENTS PER APPLICATION FILLED OUT 
Sign up at the Student Activities Board offices on the 2nd floor of LaFortune or call1297 and ask for Lynne. 



-----~~----~---~ 


Bloom Connty 
Berke Breathed 
50/ I 11~5TANfl Y(}(/R. 

W6U., YA WOK 'Tf;f?RIFIC/ 
~rmleR.'S 86611 WOI?I<JN& A~L­
f30Y, 5H6 PlflN'T MISS 
l7AY 10 11JRN YOU INfO ''HeR 
A PW!I(.., Pill 51£'" 
OWN l-ITrl-E. MICHAE-l.. 

NOP6 1 NOT A SIN&l£ ... 

1VIl-f..T.
\ 




Mellish &Dave 


Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side Gary larson 
Campus 
•1 
p.m. -Baseball, ND vs St. Joseph College,Jake Kline Field 

•2:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Socialization Into Nur­turance and Gender Roles," Drs. Robert A. Lewis and Gail F. Nelson, Library Lounge 

•4 
p.m. -NROTC Spring Awards, Library Auditorium 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "Valence Auger Spectra and Their Simulation by MS-Xa Cal­


culations,"  Prof.  Robert  Hayes,  Rad  Lab  Con­ 
ference Theatre  
•4:30  p.m.  - Meeting  of  the  Graduate  

Fellowship Prayer Group, Bulla House 
•7 
p.m.-FUm, "The War Game," Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero Free 

•7 
p.m. -Recital, John Akers, Classical Guitar, Stapleton Lounge 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -FUm, "Summer of 42," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, n 

•7:30 
p.m. -FUm, "Zelig," Washington Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Honda,JR Ewing, Merion and Henny-Penny," Don Keough, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Physical Effects of Nuclear Weapons ... Nuclear Winter," Dr. William D. McGlinn, and "Biological Effects of Nuclear Win­ter," Dr. Stephan Carpenter, South Dining Hall, Up­per Room 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "Godspell," O'Laughlin Auditorium, $1 

•8:45 
p.m. -FUm, "Fanny and Alexander," Wash­ington Hall 




"I enjoy Boy George, but I don't think he should be allowed to do a prison concert."' "You know what I'm sayin'? .. Me, for exampie. I couldn't work in some stuHy little office ... The outdoors just calls to me." 
38 Notion 52 Author 39 Can Victor 
44 Seine 53 Moslem sights prince 45 Bakery 54 Contest 

ACROSS 36 Body blood 62 Champagne 12 Mona-stock 55 Detail 1 Bedouin function bucket 13 Charity 46 Against 56 Flying 5 Athlete 40 Zodiac sign 63 Serpents 18 Author 48 Secondary prefix 
of Tex. 41 Roman 64 Flashy Wiesel rule 58 lnterroga· 10 Western official 65 San-, lt. 19 "The Boot" 49 Toodle-oo tive inter· campus 42 Bulwer· to Beppo 50 Slaughter jections 14 Las Vegas Lytton DOWN 23 Palmer of baseball 59 Slangy 
items heroine 1 Summer of golf 51 Finish turndown 15 Ledge 43 Weblike quaffs 24 A Mex. 16 Seize 45 Gasped for 2 Cereal for president 17 Devotion to breath weddings 
religious 47 Spiny­3 C.P.A. 
The Daily Crossword 
25 Spokenprinciples finned 4 Bible or 26 Folkways20 Pioneers fish Corn 27 Bar at the 21 Bluefins 48 Interdict 5 Concur bar 22 Sign 49 Am. inven­6 Goldbrick 28 Caustic23 Heb. month tor 7 Socials 29 Score 25 Egg dish 52 Uncon· 8 Literary 30 Prufrock's29 Warbled trolled monogram creator 32 Optimistic excitement 
9 Frequently, 31 Lorna of 33 Island 57 Third from to poets fiction 
veranda 
the end 10 Straighten 33 Scot. land· 60 Blow a horn out owner 34 Old card 61 Motherof 35 United

11 His victim 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
513/84

game Ishmael was Abel 37 Porter 
All Rights Reserved 


TV Tonight 
6:30p.m.  16  MASH  
22 28  Family Feud Wheel ofFortune  ;,  
7p.m.  16  Gimme A Break  
22  Magnum PI  
28  Battle ofthe Network Stars  
8:30p.m.  16  Family Ties  
8p.m.  16  Cheers  
22  CBS Special  
8:30p.m.  16  Duck Factory  
9p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
28  20/20  
10p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
!0:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  

22 TrapperJohn/ CBS Late Movie 
28 ABC News Nightline 
11:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 


i········································; 
TONIGHT FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
i S~~ . Rejection Night f
SUMMER "The feel-good movie of 1983:' 
l<tc hdrd Cnrlr" 11'\E '\A.GA.ZINE 
l ~ lJ i
OF'42 

f ~~B'ROR Bring all your i 
·: ~ .Jl •
Rejection Letters •

7:00 9:00 11:00 
Z:O()g .a us. g.-QQ.. 11:0().,
Eng. Aud. $1 

Eng. Aud. $1.50 
l.............~:~~.~~~~~~:.~~~i~:.....l 

Thursday, May 3, 1984-page 12





S~orts 
Five members of Class of '84 get chance in NFL 
Despite career plagued by injuries, Bell first RB picked 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 

Being a surprise frrst-round pick and the first running back chosen in this year's NFL draft doesn't scare Greg Bell. 
''I'm one of the happiest guys in the world right now," Bell said. "I'm anxious to get going." 
The Buffalo Bills, who made the Columbus, Ohio native the 26th pick in the first round, are also anxious for Bell to get going. The Bills are looking to Bell to fill the backfield void created by the departure of Joe Cribbs, who jumped to the Birmingham Stallions of the lfSFL at the end oflast season. 
"We sort of had a feeing the Bills would pick him first," said his coach Gerry Faust. "Especially because the Bills talked to me three or four times." 
Bill coach Kay Stephenson said the team had Bell rated as "the top running back" in the draft. "He's got good size and excellent speed, he has excellent strength, he has manueverability, and he catches the ball ..!," Stephenson said. "He has the potential to be the all-around type back that you look for." 
The 5-11, 21 0-pound Bell accepts the challenge of following Cribbs. "I'll give it my best shot," he said. But he has asked the Bills not to give him Cribbs locker or uniform number. 
Bell's high selection came as a surprise to many people, especially considering his history of injury problems. He's played only three-
NFL draft 

and-a-half games the past two 
seasons because ofvarious injuries. 
But when he has played, he has Impressed many people. Despite his Injuries, he gained 870 yards on 158 carries during his career, a 5.5 average. He averaged 11 yards per . pass reception. His best game came against Michigan State in 1981, when he rushed for 165 yards. Irish fans will also remember his 98-yard kickoff return for a touchdown against Miami in 1981. 
"I'm really happy for Greg be­cause he has had such a frustrating career as far as injuries," said Faust. "He's worked out real hard on his rehabilitation, though." 
No matter what other experts say, the Bills are impressed with Bell's talent and do not anticipate that he will have injury problems. 
"We don't think it's a risky pick," said Stephnson. "We did a lot of work on Greg, and we feel that he can be a big impact player at running back." 
Bell, who finished his degree re­quirements last semester and was doing graduate work here this semester, is already in Buffalo, preparing to receive treatment on his ankle. He will be fitted for a cast soon and will then receive electro­magnetic treatments that should completely mend the ankle. The goal is to have Bell in top condition for training camp. 
"My body's fine," said Bell. "All it wants to do is carry a football." 
see BELL, page 9 
USFL signings take their toll 
NEW YORK -If the National Football League draft that ended just before 3 am. yesterday looked pret­ty much the same as ever, that's be­cause it was. But only on the surface. 
lltere were the usual bubbly pronouncements from coaches and general managers about the mag­nificent abilities of their draftees. 
lltere were the usual curiosities 
sprinter Carl Lewis drafted by Dallas with the third-from-last pick; 
a former Toronto Blue Jays' baseball 
farmhand named Jay Schroeder, chosen by Washington on the third round as a quarterback; a linebacker named Jimmie Carter taken by Detroit, and a tackle named Byron Nelson chosen by New Orleans; a cry of "Akeem Olajuwon" from the gallery when it was the New York Giants' tum to pick. 
But in this year of escalating war with the United States Football 

Irish win as Fallon gets 450th victory 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 

The men's tennis team ended its regular season Tuesday with a 6-3 win over Kalamazoo College. 
The Irish finish the season with a combined 25-9 record over the fall and spring seasons. Next for the netters is the Eastern Col­legiate Championship in New York, May 18-20. 
Tuesday's win was the 450th career victory for Irish Coach Tom Fallon. 
Notre Dame split the singles matches with Kalamazoo before winning all three doubles matches to clinch the victory. 
"I was really pleased with our doubles play," said assistant· Coach Tom Hartzell. "We played a tough match all around. Two of the three losses all went to three sets. (Paul) Ghidottl has been Improving all season, and (Paul) Najarian ieally showed his guts when he came back from an 6-0 first set to win the match." 
"This puts us in great shape for the Easterns." 
The Irish are a perennial power at the Eastern Collegiates, and are returning after a one-year layoff. West Point won the tournament last year and are returning virtually the same team this year, according to Head Coach Tom Fallon. 
"We'll be facing a lot of teams that we haven't played before," said Fallon. "Kent State also has a pretty strong team." 
"Ifwe continue to play the way we have been, I think we stand a pretty good chance of winning the tournament." 
"We're playing really good ten­nis right now," said Hartzell. "lf our lower singles guys and our doubles teams play tough, I think we have the potential to beat any ofthem." 
League, there were some just­below-the surfuce differences beyond the obvious -the USFL's signing of glamor players like Mike Rozier, Steve Young and Reggie White diluted the draft and forced the NFL to virtually ignore quarter­backr-and running backs and go primarily for defense, particularly in the critical first two rounds. 
For one thing, NFL teams expect­ing post-draft USFL raids went to some lengths to make sure they could sign the players they drafted. 
Because of rumors that he was asking about SI million a year orwas committed to the USFL's Tampa Bay Bandits, Florida linebacker Wilber Marshall lasted until the 11th pick of the first round, when he was taken by the Chicago Bears. Marshall denounced the rumors as untrue and immediately began negotiating with the Bears. 
There also were moves suggesting that NFL teams have learned some things from the flexibility of the USFL, which allows any team that thinks it can sign a player to negotiate with him regardless of who holds his rights. 
The Dallas Cowboys, for example, used the 26th pick on the fourth round to pick Steve DeOssie, a Bos­ton College linebacker who was a first-round pick of the USFL's New Jersey Generals. Then the Cowboys announced they had signed him, something they couldn't have done had they not negotiated with him beforehand. 
Then there was the trade in which 
the Cleveland Browns gave the 
Chicago Bears their last four picks in 
return for all three Bears' picks in 
the supplemental draft next month, 
see DRAFI', page 10· 


Blair Kiel gets shot with Tampa Bay 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
When all is said and done, what really matters in the National Foot­ball League draft is not when a player is selected, but whether he is chosen at all. 
That was certainly the way Blair Kiel wa'> thinking when the NFL draft began on Tuesday morning in New York. And while the 6-1, 206­pound senior was not an early selec­tion, he still has a very good chance ofbeing on an NFL roster come Sep­tember. 
It wasn't until the 11th round that the Tampa Bay Buccaneers an­nounced their selection of Kiel, making him the 281 st player selected in the draft. Kiel was the 1 I th quarterback chosen in the draft, but the only signal-caller tabbed by the Hues. 
"Overall, I'm just very happy that I was able to be drafted," Kicl said yes­terday. "It wa., a very defensive­oriented . draft, so I feel very fortunate to have been selected. It's a great chance for me." 
Kiel knew prior to the draft that the Bucs had an interest in him (Bucs' running back coach Jim Gruden had worked out Kiel at Notre Dame on April 5 ), but he was not sure ifthey would draft him. The New York Jets and Dallas Cowboys 
see KIEL, page 9 
~~. 






