Indira Gandhi -page 4 

VOL XVIII, NO. 85 the: indc:pc:ndc:nt student nc:wspapt-r st:rving notrt: Jamc: and saint mary's FRIDAY, FEBRUARY I0, I984 
Franks victorious in SMC elections 
By PAM RICHARDSON cente recieved 57 percent of the StaffReporter vote to Galligan's 41 percent. Sixty percent of next year's senior class 
:n the race for Saint Mary's stu­voted in the election. Pascente said, dent body leaders, the ticket of Lee "'We're a roomful of smiles," when Ann Franks, president; JulieT Straz­she realized she was the president of zabosco, vice president of student next year's senior class. affairs; and Ann Marie Collman, vice In the junior class officer election president of academic affairs, a total of 71.6 percent of this year's defeated the ticket of Michelle 
sophomores turned out to vote.

Manion, Maureen Karnatz and Chris 
They elected Julie Harmon, presi­

llart. After hearing the results, dent; Janet Biegel, vice president;Franks said, "We're looking forward Suzy Welsh, secretary; and Bethto a great '84-'85." 
Steber, treasurer over the ticket ofA total of 62 percent of the stu­

Mary Beth l.avezzorio, Linda Cascio, dent hody at Saint Mary's turned out Chris Jack. and Bethany Hoke who to vott· yesterday in the student 

ended up with 37 percent of the vote. Harmon said she hopes they accomplish everything next year's junior class wants. 


There will be a runnoff between the ticket of Michelle Collman, president; Jenny Blantz, vice presi­dent; Sara Honningford, secretary; 
ceremony ofthe Fourteenth Winter Olympic Games, 
and Patty Curran, treasurer and that 

in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia. 
body and class officer election. of Jeanne Heller, president; Angie Franks received 60 percent of the Hundman, vice president; Betsy · vote and Manion received 36 per­Burke, secretary; and Jill Gillig, cent. treasurer. Collman accumulated 38 
"Jbe ticket of Debhic Pascente, percent of the votes to Heller's 44 
Accounting students go to Virginia 
president; Mary Sue Dunn, vice percent. The ticket of Mary Flynn, president; Regina Pinotti, treasurer; Erin Mullarkey, B.A. Otto, and Dee and Tracy Bringardner, secretary, Dee Shary came in third. 
for business case-analysis contest 
narrowly defeated the opposing The runoff between the Collman 
By MIKE MILLEN
ticket of Maureen Galligan, Ann ticket and the Heller ticket will take team to the competition. After being breathe a sigh of relief and give the 
::ewsStaff
Bowler, Marty Bonich, and Jane place Monday from 8 am. to 4 p.m. introduced to a complex business plan to the typists, who prepare it for 
Raub for senior class officers. Pas-in the Haggar College Center. problem, the teams arc given 1 5 the judges.Yesterday, four Notre Dame stu­
hours to analyze it and prepare a Their job is not over, however, as dents left in the early morning for 
written solution and an oral defense they still must prepare their oral Charlottesville, Va. Their destina­
oftheir solution. defense. After working until the \Vee
Black cultural festival 
tion ? The Third Annual Mcintire 
According to Testerman, the con­hours of the morning, they are final­Commerce Invitational at· the Uni­
test is not as ea~y as it sounds. He ly given a chance to rest. Of course versity of Virginia. Dubbed as the 
describes the schedule as being they must be up rather early, for at 8
to kick off this month 
country's only undergraduate busi­
"grueling." Initially, the team is a.m. they must convince a panel that ness case-analysis competition, the
ByTERRY BLAND coming to talk to the students this given the case history of an almost their plan would be the optimum tournament promises to be a
NewsStaff year." bankrupt company. After taking a way to take the company out of the The event will celebrate the 20th briefoverview of the 50-page docu­red and into the black. It is after this
showcase for some of the brightest business bachelor's degree can­
This year's Black Cultural Arts Fes­anniversary of the civil rights march ment, which is loaded with charts, that their task is over; the rest is up didates in the nation.
tival, with a theme of"From Dream at Washington, D.C., and the 30th figures, and all necessary financial to the judges. to Reality: Directions for Black anniversary of the well-known Leaving with high hopes and a and managerial information, the The members of the Notre Dame taste for prestige was the team of
America," once again will offer a Brown vs. Board of Education deci­team meets with the case's author. team are all fourth-year business stu­Kelly Frank, Brian Ledley, Greg Tes­
wide variety of speakers and ac­sion. The festival also coincides with After clearing up any ambiguous in­dents who were selected by the terman, and Steve Wilkie. They are
tivities to interest everyone as it Black History Month. formation in the allotted two hours, faculty. Although this is the first year kicks offthis month. Among the speakers this year are the team is then literally locked in a that Notre Dame has been invited to
coached by Professor David Nor­burn, who is optimistic about the
"We have events that interest the husb .and and wife acting team, room for fifteen more. During this the competition, the team has a contest.
everybody," says senior Ruby An­Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee, authors time, they are preparing a plan to wealth of experience. They have derson, chairman ofthe festival "We save the company. When they
According to the rules, each see FESTIVAL, page 4 schooi sends a four-member student see CONTEST, pageS 
have a lot of newsworthy speakers emerge at about I I p.m., they 
Communication, alcohol key issues in Student Senate races 
there should still be more com­political prisoners. 
need to load or unload to get past 
munication between students and McNamara would also like to see
District 3 District 4 
~ecurity. He says "You shouldn't their teachers. more studem/senator communica­have to be interrogated every time." Editor's Note: The following are "Studentsshould feel free to voice tion. Says McNamara, "I would like 
This segment profiles candidates He says he would like to extend 
the third and fourth ofa five-part their opinions," says Rolincik, "and to see a senate aid or contact from the hours for of the women's
from District 4, which consists of use series describing tbe candidates in teachers should know where stu­each dorm in my district whom I 
Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla East laundry facilities, and would like to each ofthe five Student Senate dis­dents are coming from." could call weekly or biweekly to see 
and Pasquerilla West. lengthen parietals on weekends for tricts. This segment profiles can­Rolincik also says that students what the people in that dorm want." "at least an hour." By BARBARA HARDIN Abood says there has been good News Staff progress in teacher evaluations but says they "should have a greater im· "A fresh new look into student pact on hiring, firing, and tenure." government" is the campaign motto Abood is opposed to both a dry 

didates from District 3. which should take more advantage of their consists of Badin, Dillon, Fisher, senators. He says if he is elected he Howard, Lyons, Morissey, and will try to promote more com­Pangborn Halls. munication between his con­
stituents and himself so that he can By BARBARA HARDIN relay what they want. Neu•sStaff Rolincik says he would like to see 
the students "more aware of Promoting better communication proposals the senators are voting 

of District 4's unopposed candidate campus and a change in final exam Tom Abood. A Flanner junior, policy that could make exams ac­Abood says he has never been in­count for a large percentage ofone's volved in student government at final grade. 
student input. ''I'm not afraid to take
is the key campaign issue for District on" and says he would work to in­
Notre Dame but is ready to start now According to Abood, "a good2 senate candidates Mark Rolincik form his district ofthe issues at hand. 
ideas from others and give credit 
by getting involved in campus senator should be accessible and
where credit's due," says
and Dan McNamara. McNamara, a Morrissey junior, issues. Abood says he was quite able to get things out of the talk
McNamara. He would also send out a
Morris.<>ey freshman Rolincik is spent his sophomore year in Ireland surprised to discover he was un­stage." He says "the Student Senate
weekly or biweekly newsletter to
presently a member of the Student where he participated in the Right to opposed and felt it exemplified and government could be more ef.
keep his district members informed
Senate Committee for Teacher Life Movement. He was also a mem­apathy among his district. fective in getting students toon senate activities.
Evaluations. Through teacher ber of Amnesty International, a As a senator, Abood would like to vocalize what they want, and people
McNamara says he would
evaluations, he has "learned what worldwide organization which 
see a few changes made, including should know that their opinionspeople want;" however, he says focuses on helping and releasing see SENATE, page 8 
easier accessibility for drivers who count." 


Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 2 
Is LaF-ortune going to become too used? 
You may have noticed a great improvement inside LaFortune Student Center lately. 
Amy Stephan
People. 

LaFortune, where cockroaches formerly outnum­Assistant News Editor 
bered students nine to one, is beginning to become 
more of the student center its name implies. f 'd F · d 
;,'~ 
Since last summer's renovations, cries for a new stu-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiSiiiiliiii~eiiiiiiiiiiriil~iia~yiiiiii,;=·.;.;\iiii:iiiiiiiiiiiii-~f~'fl~i:\~ 
dent center have died down considerably, and students 
seem content to have a liuilding that is at least usable. 
"The building is being used more and more because This complicated series of moves would make use of 
it's a nicer building," said Jim McDonnell, director of wasted space and would group more businesses and 
student activities. For example, an average of seven to services in a central location -a great convenience for 
eight groups now meet in LaFortune each day, as many students -without significantly reducing the 
compared to only two or three per day last year. amount of"social" space in the building. 
And, if current plans arc implemented, the building But will all this new activity cause the building to 
will continue to be used more and more. hurst at its seams? 
Renovations have brought about increased usage of McDonnell estimates the computer store alone at­
the main lobby, the Dooley room and Karon court, but tracts 100-200 people to the building each day. The ad­
according to McDonnell, there is still much "dead dition of two radio stations, several businesses, a 
space." pizzeria, and a laundry room 
A top-to·hottom would increase traffic con­
redistribution of space in siderably. Although the 
LaFortune is being con­businesses themselves may 
sidered by McDonnell, a Stu­not take up much room, the 
dent Senate committee, and ( people they attract will. 
others. McDonnell hopes to ( It could he argued .that 
have some definite plans people will merely use the 
within a month. new services and not neces­
Current ideas run some· sarily "lung out" in the 
thing like this: building, thus preventing
l 

B<:ginning on the third excess crowding. But this 
floor, WVFI·FM and WSND-summer's renovations show 
FM stations would move in­that an improved building 
to what are now the will naturally attract more 
Scholastic offices. Scholas­students. Besides, such im­
tic would then migrate provements as an under­
down the hall to The Dome graduate club and a pizzeria 
offices. are meant to attract more 
The Dome in turn would than just through traffic. 
move either to the nebulous Crowding is already ap­
one·and-a-half story, where the Center for Social Con· parent at peak hours, especially in the dining areas. In 
cerns once resided, or to the basement rooms formerly fact, an expansion to the Huddle also is being con­
occupied by Campus Press. sidered. 
Yet, a student center should contain not only
The second floor office area, with its two wide, empty businesses, services and offices, hut also ample room forcorridors, would be redesigned and space would be al­students to socialize, study or just "hang out." If evenlotted for the class offices now housed on the one-and­
some of the proposed changes go through, crowding
a-half floor. An office/meeting room for University might make an addition a necessity.
clubs and organizations might also be added. 
A student center worth using should have enough 
Since Career and Placement Services will no longer room for all students who wish to use it. Ifsuch a center be using LaFortune next year (they arc rumored to be becomes a reality, the demand for space could exfeed moving to the library basement), the long-planned un­the supply, requiring an expansion to more than ju1 the dergraduate club in Chautauqua may become a reality. Huddle. A three-story addition -which has been dis· 
cussed in the Student Activities Office -mJuld
A pizzeria might be housed in room 2D, thus offering 
provide for both dining space and room for future an alternat.ive to the Huddle. The pizzeria, however, growth.
would probably be run by Notre Dame Food Services. 
After all, if the administration is going continue 
The basement could become the new home for Uni­pouring money into an old building, that building versity Hair Stylists, the barbershop, and First Source should be useful for more than a year or two. An over­Travel. A much-needed laundry room might be es­stuffed student center can produce cries for change just tablished in the old Campus Press rooms. as easily as an empty one. 


END OF SEASON SKI SALE 
STOP IN FOR OUR ANNUAL CLEARANCE 

OF ALL SKI EQUIPMENT, ADULT AND CHILDREN'S CLOTHING. SUPER SAVINGS OF 15% TO 50% OFF ALMOST EVERY­
THING IN BOTH OUR GRANGER AND ELKHART STORES! HOPE TO SEE YOU! 

SAVE!!! Downhill Equipment 15°/o to 50°/o Adult Skiwear 15°/o to 50°/o Kids Skiwear 25°/o to 50°/o Winter Sportswear 15°/o to 50°/o Cross Country 
Skis 15°/o to 50°/o 
Limited to Sale starts Saturday 
stock on hand 
16533 Cll•lll'lollltl At>ild I Gr ,HI !II'' loult.lll,t 46!JJ0 I ? 11 11 "J 1 
I 
I 
~ 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 
The Observer 

Reagan's callfor a S I 00 billion "down payment" to reduce deficits. Wright entered the meeting saying he hoped agreement could befound. 
F..r..r..r..r..r..rJ.Y"J.Y"..r..r..r..r..r..r~..r..r..r~..r..rJCr..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..rJCr..r..r..r....:r..r....:r..JOO""~..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r1
IWygantIFloral Co. Inc. ~ ~ ~I"Rowers for all occasions"  t:  • • •.  II ~ § ~I  
~  Come in and browse  §  
~  Place your Valentine orders earlyllll  ~  
§[327 Lincolnway  232-3354 ~MY'  ::i  ~ 8  

~~J"'.JCf'"J"'J"'J'"J"'JC""J.Y'...o"'"J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"J"'J'"J"'J'"J'"J"'.JQf'".JCf'"J"'J"'J"'...o"'"J"'J"'J'".JCf'".,ooo-.JQf'"..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..rJ.Y"J 
ND/SMC Students 
PARTY 
Spring Break in Daytona Beach 
INCLUDES 

•Round 
trip motor coach transportation to beautiful Daytona Beach. Flonda. 

•
FREE refreshments on the way down [the party starts here.) 

•
8Fiorida days/7 endless nights at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels, located right on the strip. ·A full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day. 

•
A full list of pre-arranged discounts to save you money in Daytona Beach. . 

•Travel 
representatives to insure a smooth tnp and a good 


time. ·optional side excursions to Disney World, Epcot, deep sea fishing, etc. 
•All taxes and tips. 

YOU CANNOT FIND A BETTER DEAL OR A BETTER TIME OVER SPRING BREAK 
For furth_er information and sign up THE BEST DEAL TO DAYTONA BEACH Call Paul at 283-4358 
$195 

Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 3 
CBS describes sports program techniques 
By LESLIEANNE WADE 
News Staff 

Many sports fans find themselves dreaming of doing the play-by-play for a national broadcast, but it's not all front row seats and stardom in the big leagues, according to the CBS Sports production crew. 
Students attending yesterday's lecture titled "The Anatomy of a Sports Broadcast " learned just what it takes to produce a game like tomorrow's battle between Notre Dame and DePaul. 
The CBS crew, in conjunction with Notre Dame Sports Informa­tion Director Roger Valdiserri and the Department of American Studies, sponsored the seminar held at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Len DeLuca, director of program planning and development, began by outlining CBS Sports program­ming. "After acquiring an event, we delegate to produce it," DeLuca ex­plained. "Then we sell it to our ad­
vertisers,  distribute  it  to  our  
affiliates and  promote it  like  any  
product."  

"It's a business," said Executive Producer Kevin O'Malley. "Today it is a spotlight industry. Everyone is interested in it. And we are more than just Cronkite. We are one ofthe largest torporations in the country." 
As a corporation, CBS has many different divisions. Producer Rick Sharp explained the importance of "not stepping on the other guy's foot." He said the crew "will have two hours on Saturday to broadcast a game that takes an hour and '53 minutes. So we do a lot of planning during the week. We create a 

Send Flowers to the one you love on Valentine's Day 
272·6363 
409 Dixie Way N. in Roseland 


storyline. We set up our cameras and we build our opening." Sharp con­tinued, "It is all carefully or­chestrated in advance so we don't cut into local or news time." 
Play-by-Play Announcer Gary 
Bender told ofhis own early facina tion with sports. "When I was in the seventh grade, I lived on a farm in Western Kansas .... If you haven't been there you haven't missed any­thing," Bender joked. "Sitting on the plow, I'd make up ball games. And ifl had to go another round then I'd make up extra innings." Bender said, "You can't be in this business for your ego or for the money. You real­ly have to be a sports fanatic." 
All three speakers stressed the im­portance of the final product. Sharp explained, "In producing a sports show we have to be all things to all people. We have be explanatory enough for those who don't know a great deal about sports while satisfy­ing the hard-core fan." The final challenge was presented by Bender -"I challenge you because this business can be the most exciting business in the world. But remem­ber: there is a fine line between excitement and panic." 
Russians land on orbiting space station 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -Three cosmonauts guided their spacecraft to a success­ful docking with the Salyut-7 space station yesterday to become the fifth crew to visit the Soviet Union's orbiting research complex. 
The official news agency Tass said 
the Soyuz T-1 0 docked with Salyut-7 
at 5:43 p.m. (9:43 a.m. EST) -26 
hours and 36 minutes after their lift­
off Wednesday from the Baikonur 
cosmodrome in Soviet central Asia. 

Pilot Leonid Kizim, engineer 
Vladimir Soloyev and cardiologist 
Oleg Atkov restarted the space sta­
tion's life support systems, removed 
their space suits and entered the 
orbiting laboratory, Tass said. 

There now are a record eight men 
in space -the three Soviets and five 
Americans aboard the Challenger 
space shuttle. 

The main Soviet television eve­
ning news program showed film of 
the three cosmonauts floating in 
Salyut-7's brightly lit interior. 

"We will start unpacking what our 
predecessors left for us to work 
with, and we'd like to thank them for 
cleaning up the space station," said 
Kizim, the mission commander. 

He held up two red carnations, 
presumably art ifical, that he said 
were a housewarming gift left be­
hind by the Salyut-7's last crew, cos­
monauts Vladimir Lyakhov and 
Alexander Alexandrov. 

Lyakhov and Alexandrov spent 
150 days aboard Salyut-7 in a mis­
sion marred by a fuel leak and a 
launching pad accident that aborted 
a planned relief flight. Three other 
crews have visited Salyut-7 since it 
was placed in orbit April 19, 1982 ­

including the record-setting 211­
day mission of Anatoly Berezovoy 
and Valentin Lebedev. 


The Observer Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 4 
Nine Saint Mary's students granted private audience with Indira Gandhi 
By MARY HEILMANN 
Neu•s Staff 
Nint: ~aim Mary's students were granH.'d a private interview with In­dian Primt: Ministn Indira Gandhi l·arlicr this }'l"ar to discuss social conditions in India and the role of womt:n in the political arl·na. 
The audienlT took place Sept. S-in (iandhi's office, as part ofa semester in India program, sponsored by Saint Mary's Collegt: and dircctt:d by Dr. Cyriac Pullapilly. 
AtTording to senior Beth Valenti, who participated in the program, the meeting with Gandhi was one of the highlights ofher trip. 
··1 had thought that, since she's one of the only women in the male­dominated political world, Mrs. Gandhi might he ignored hy the men kaders," said Valenti. "Hut she said shl· gets a fair shake in everything, whkh rt·ally surprised me." 
Valenti also expressed surprise at Gandhi's political adeptness during the interview. "Sht: said starvation is not a problem in India, which is ob­viously untrue. She also denied the existence of a paid sterilization program in the Indian villages several times. She has a very politi­cally agile mind." 

Senior Beth Walsh, who also made the trip, agreed with Valenti, but noted that Gandhi's reserve did not surprise her. 
''She glossed over some issues, but I was not surprised by that. She's still a politician, and I expected her to be somewhat noncommital." 
Walsh added that Gandhi skirted the women's rights issue in India, but was optimistic about a woman's potential for success. "She said with the proper motivation and educa­tion, women can realize all their goals." 
As part of the program, the sw­dents spent 2S days on a study tour through japan, China, Hong Kong. and Nepal. Upon arriving in India they attended a women's college in Madras, a city on the southeastern coast of India. After touring India and Asia, the sllldents returned to the United States Dec. S. 
When asked what lasting impres­sions her experiences in India have given her, Walsh responded, "I real­ly appreciate the role of the -women's movement in the United States. It still has a long way to go, but at least it has a direction. In India the movement lacks a direction in the form of leaders and lobbyists, which is one of the reasons it's so in­
effective." 

Valenti said she regards the entire trip as "the best experience of my life. There are so many misconcep­tions about India which should not stop people from going. There are difficult things to adjust to, but in light of the people, the education, and the many opportunities for learning, I would go again in a minute if I had the chance." 
CLASS OF '84 T-SHIRTS ON SALE NOW! 
At Senior Cia•• Office (1.5 LaFortune) -:-:..,~,..._ 
Nen Monday thru Thunday 1 p.m. -4 p.m. or order from haUrep .... $10.00 

J 

& 
Famiglia Italiano Ristorante 
VALENTINE SPECIAL 
complete Spaghetti and meatballs dinner for two including two glasses of wine. $9.95 reservati~ns: 277·6155 1636 N.lronwood 
~~r==========================·===·=~=~=~==============~==========================:=============:::====:::::::====:=====:===:====~:~====:::·>===·=====·>=·=·>=r===-:·>=·=:::: 


Festival 
continuedfrom page 1 
of Rtlisin in the Sun, who will present readings and poetry on the human experience in a performance titled "Inside Out" on Feb. 16 in the Library Auditorium. 
"Later on in the fl·stival," said An­derson, "we hope to invite some lawyers and judges for a panel dis­cussion and an Alumni Forum." 
This year's festival will also be at­tendl·d by US Civil Rights Commisioner Mary Frances Berry, who will discuss the progress of the program on Feb. 12 at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The talk is being sponsored by Student Government in conjunction with the festival. 

Berry. who was a former U.S. civil rights commissioner under the Car­ter administration, was recently tired by President Reagan. Congress appealed to the administration that the commission was in an independ­ent position and that the president had no justification for firing Berry. Berry was later reinstated as Civil Rights Commissioner. 
Anderson has a committee of 12 students working on the different events for the festival. One such stu­dent is senior Sandra Hodge, who wrote a stage play to be performed on Saturday, Feb. 1 I. 
"I wrote the play because wanted to leave a mark before I left Notre Dame," said Hodge, a finance maj()r. "I love acting and I think I have some important things to say before I leave." 
The play, titled "Living Memories," is about a girl who is about to graduate from college who looks back on all the special mo­ments she had while attending. 
"Although most of the memories could be anyone's," says Hodge, "a few of them are Black-oriented." 
The festival will also put on a talent show on Feb. 25 and a fashion I show on March S. 



l 9-1~;;~];1~f#~~;:)ne I ,,, ~:~:~:~::::::~: ) 
ONE GOOD DEAL

DESERVESANO-rBER 
Now. in addition to getting a great deal on an Apple Macintosh. St. Joseph Bank offers you three easy ways to make your purchase. One way is to put no money down. take up to 24 months to repay and pay an annual 
percentage rate of only 14°/o. With attractive loan terms like this available, you can't afford to pass up this once in a lifetime offer. 
Or. open a Premier Credit Line and write yourself a loan for your Macintosh. Premier Credit Line is a personal line of credit that enables qualified customers to borrow money anytime. anywhere. simply by writing a check. 
Yet one more option for you is to charge the purchase of your Apple Macintosh on your St. Joseph Bank 
VISA. What could be easier...Fill in the coupon below, send 
it to the address listed and we'll send you all the necessary paperwork to make an Apple Macintosh yours! Or visit your nearest St. Joseph Bank office and one of our Professionals will be happy to serve you. 
Notre Dame and Apple deserve a 
lot of credit for putting together 
such a great deal. And you deserve 
credit to help you buy your 
Macintosh. Talk to the 
Professionals, today! 
~JOSEPH BANK 
MEMBER FDIC 

The Observer Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 5 
Challenger spacewalkers enjoy ride despite recent series of problems 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. Bundled in their bulky suits, Chal­lenger's exuberant spacewalkers performed an impromptu rescue yesterday, snatching back a piece of equipment as it drifted toward the junkyard ofspace. 
They flew free and joyously, propelled by bursts of nitrogen gas from their backpacks. But the day was not without its disappointment -the latest in a long series for this shuttle crew. The "wrist" on the shuttle's robot arm refused to respond to commands, canceling a docking rehearsal with a rotating ob­ject. 
"The view is simply spectacular and panoramic," astronaut Bruce McCandless told President Reagan when he made his customary once­a-mission call to the shuttle. 
McCandless was showing restraint with his commander-in­chief. Earlier he had exulted: "Up, up in the bay." His partner, Robert Stewart, said, "Boy, it's awful pretty." 
Earlier pessimism that bad weather would again delay or cancel 

r_,.._,...;.::r-_,.._,.._,.._,....,._,.._,....,._,...,.o-_,....,._,....,...,...,...,._,...,....o--,._,...,..,...,._,...,..J0'"......_,......._,.._,.._,.._,...,.1­
a first landing tomorrow at Florida's Kennedy Space Center turned to op­timism as an expected weather front stalled over Texas. "Right now it's 
looking  real  good  for  KSC,"  the  
astronauts were told.  
From  mission control  came  ap­ 

plause when McCandless reached over the side of the spaceship and, like a child pulling at a balloon, retrieved a foot restraint that had broken loose and was floating away. He was on his safety line at the time. 
He had help from commander Vance Brand, who gently pulsed Challenger's small steering rockets 
Contest 
continuedfrom page 1 
worked on mock cases for over 40 hours. 
"~'ve put more time into this than all our other classes," quips Testerman. 
All of this training will be needed, however, because the students will be facing some stiff competition. The other four schools include the Universities of North Carolina, Wis-
I ROCCO'S
I RESTAURANT 
§ 
~ 

§ South Bend's Original Pizza § Featuring a full line of Italian food ~ Also beef and sausage sandwiches 
§
§

§ Open weekdays 5 pm till 1 am ~ weekends 5 pm till 2 am § closed Sun and Mon 
§
§

§ Carry-Out 233-2464
§

§ 537 N. St. Louis St. 
L..,...,._,....,._,.._,._,._,.._,..._,.._,.._,.._,.._,...,...,._,.._,...,...,._,....,...,._,._,._,....,..,..,._,.._,..,._,....,...,...,...,...,._,..._,.._,._,.....J 
This Old House Pizzeria and Pub 
Bruno's II in Roseland 
------------------------~--­
On Campus Delivery Seven Days a Week 1 liter Pepsi free with Small 14" 21iters Pepsi free with medium 16" 31iters Pepsi free with large 18" 
r--~~~~---~;;~~---~;:~;--l 
_..~'s' A. l 
tt....Vt. ! I
trdJ 
t::..'r This Old House Pitze,:-.~ & Pub 1 7 I IO'llpd~i'l Nortlv · Jl·.'t,~ l<mi.;.,..diana I 
I

5 &.. 1 FREE 
I

Savt.5 of these coupons and redeem for I Medium 16... Pizza Free! 
I I 

Authorized Signature I. 
277-4519 !OFFER EXPIRES JUNE IS. 1984} 277-4519.
L-------------------------I 
Mon · Thur Now open Sundays Fri -Sat 4 pm · 1 0 pm 3 PM · 8 PM 4 pm ·11 pm 
277-4519 
I
I 
§ 
~ 
§
§ 
~ 
§
§
§ 
~ 
§§
§
§
§
§ 
to move 30 feet closer to the restraint -"just as he would do ifhe had to rescue a stranded astronaut in a maneuvering unit," mission con­trol said. 
McCandless, referring to an ear­lier flight crew's boast, said "'We deliver' may have been the STS-5 crew motto, but we pick up also." 
McCandless clearly enjoyed the freedom of moving about in his flying machine. One memorable view was of him, feet toward the 
Earth above,  head  dpwn  to  the  
shuttle  cargo  bay,  suspended  in  
space.  

consin, California at Berkeley, and the reigning champion, Washington Univt;rsity ofSt. Louis. The competi­tion will be judged by a number of prominent businessmen, including an editor from Business Week, a vice president of General Electric, and the C.O. of the Mead Corporation. 
According to Professor Norburn, all expenses, except for airfare, are being handled by the University of Virginia. Although there arc no cash prizes offered, Testerman feels that the "trophy and prestige would. be enough." 
The directOJ;"S of the tourney feel this is a problem-solving experience which offers the students an oppor­tunity to demonstrate their poten­tial both as independent thinkers and business analysts. The competi­tion involves an actual "real life" business problem and is intended to be a powerful and effective learning experience. According to Tester­man, this is "just like being a management consultant." 
Like any team, each member has his specialty. Ledley is in charge of the charts and financial figures, while Frank specializes in the marketing decisions. Testerman will actually write the case, while Wilkie will be in charge of its oral defense. All the members, however, will agree on the final presentation. 
The competition lasts two days, and the team should be back by Sun­day. Moreover. at least according to some of its more optimistic mem­bers, the team will be back by Sun­day with trophy in hand. 
Health of 
Andropov disputed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Soviet televi­sion unexpectedly changed its scheduled programming to classical music last night followed by similar changes in state radio broadcasts, 
The Washington Post reported in today's editions. 
The reported changes come amid the extended illness ofSoviet leader Yuri Andropov and the Post reported in a Moscow-datelined story that they appear w indicate the country is being placed on an emer­gency footing. 
In Washington, State Department 
analysts who spoke on condition 
they remain anonymous said they 
have heard the reports of classical 
music played on Moscow radio. 
They said, however, that the U.S. embassy in Moscow reports that the music was not funeral dirges. The embassy also had no information to indicate that Andropov or anyone as prominent has died, the analysts reported. 
The analysts pointed out that the most recent indication ofa seriously ill person in the Moscow hierarchy was Defense Minister Marshal Dmitri Ustinov, 75, who canceled a trip to India last week for unex­plained reasons. 


The Observer 

Dr. William Shearer explains tbe bone marrow Mary Murphy, Ph.D. David, 12, who lacks im­transplant procedure to David, the "Bubble Boy," munity from disease, was removed for the first in Houston in Ibis 1983 file photo. Looking on is time Wednesday from a germ-free isolation unit. 
Prankster, 14, stabbed accidentally 
Assodatt>d Press 
CRYSTAl. LAKE, Ill. -A 14-year­old girl who disguised herself as a prowler lurking outsidt· the house to scare her hahy-sitting friend paid for her practical joke with a knife in her chest. 
Karl·n Geske. who carlin had made ominous tdephonc calls to the fri<:nd. was stahhed to dt·ath hy the bally-sitter's boyfril'nd, a high school honor student. 
"The whole thing was shocking to us here hl'Giuse neither was the type you would think to get involved in 
University Food Services 
University of Notre Dame 
Important --Announcement --Important 
Dinner Service Hours Saturday, February 11, 1984 

6:00PM-7:30PM 
Go Irish! BEAT DEPAUL! Go Irish! 
The Best to a Great ... Coach -Person -Alumnus Coach Ray Meyer -N.D. Class of 1938 Depaul University 

somctning like this," said Walter friend, breathing heavily each time. 
Forsyth, principal of Crystal Lake Then she donned men's clothing, 
Central High School. drew a beard on her chin, pulled a 
Police ChiefSamuel Johns said, "It nylon stocking over her head and started out to be a prank and turned went to show the disguise to her 20­out to be a tragedy." ycar-old sister, Lori. 
The young man, whose name has After she rattled the doors and
not been rdeased, has been charged windows ofthe house, the boyfriendwith voluntary manslaughter in the 
opened the door to investigate.
Jan. 2R slaying. He is free on 525.000 bond pending a preliminary hearing As Karen jumped out of the Fl-b. 1S in McHenry County Circuit bushes -apparently intending to Court. shout, "Boo!" -the young man 
Johns said the prank apparently lunged f •Jrwrd with a double-edged hegan when Karen made several knife and stabbed her once in the anonymous phone calls to her chest. 


Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 6 

'Bubble Boy' leaves chamber for operation 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON-David, the 12-year­old "bubble boy" forced by illness from the sterile chamber which protected him from infection since birth, was doing "much better" yes­terday after treatment for vomiting, diarrhea and fever, doctors said. 
Baylor College of Medicine spokeswoman Susannah Griffin said tests were continuing to determine what was wrong with the child, who was born without resistance to disease and grew up in a bubble-like plastic chamber to protect him from 
germs. 
She said physicians had ruled out infection as the source of the symptoms. . 
Some ofthe tests were "probably" intended to learn whether David is suffering from graft-vs.-host disease, which often attacks patients who un­
dergo bone marrow transplants, sh said. David received such a transplant Oct. 20 to give him an immune system. 
David, whose last name has never been revealed to protect the privacy of his family, was removed Tuesday from the bubble and kissed his mot­her for the first time. Doctors said they moved the boy because they feared he would be severely dehydrated by vomiting, diar~hea and fever. 
Ms. Griffin said David needed to receive liquids intravenously for several hours and it was impossible to get an intravenous unit into the bubble. 
"There was more of a danger leaving him inside" than in bringing David into the outside world, she said. 
The boy, being kept in a sterile, windowless room, remained on a diet of clear liquids, said Ms. Griffin. He was in gooa spirits yesterday and doctors hoped he soon would be able to eat soft foods such as gelatin and pudding, she said. 
"He's doing much better today," she said. "His symptoms have les­sened although they have not com­pletely gone away." 
Ms. Griffin said it is not known yet whether David is suffering from graft-vs.-host disease, an ailment which attacks the gastrointestinal tract, the skin and liver. 
But Dr. Joel Rappaport, clinical director of the bone marrow transplant program at Boston's Brig­him and Women's Hospital, said the disease is a "relatively common problem" in bone marrow transplant patients. 
Rappaport, who is not directly 
connected with David's case but is1 
pioneer in the transplant field, saiil 
David was one ofabout I00 patients 
who have received bone marrow 
transplants from less than perfect 
donors. That means the 12.3 ounces 
of tissue from his 15-year-old sister, 
Katherine, did not perfectly match 
David's tissue. 
The donor marrow had been 
treated with monoclonal antibodies, 
which are designed to kill mature T­
cells. T-cells arc key antibodies in 
the body's defense against discas~. 
but doctors said such transplanted 
cells might attack their new body. 
Rappaport said the treatment is 
designed to leave immature T-cells, 
which should develop into cells ac­
customed to their new environment 
and form an immune system. 


i 
i 
L------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------­
...... ..,....... ._
~"': 

The Observer Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 7 
US Navy and Druse-Moslem forces 
Battle For Beirut 
continue barrage of war-torn Beirut 

The warfor control ofBeirut and Lebanon involvesforces from severaldifferent nationsanddifferentethnic andreligiousgroups. This graphic indicates where various factions are in control in Beirut afterMoslem forces took over West Beirut. 
ACCENT YOUR 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -The U.S. 6th 
Fleet bombarded the rebel-held 
ridges outside Beirut for a second , day yesterday, after government and 
rebel gunners traded deadly artillery 
barrages around the divided and 
devastated city. 
Lebanese and Syrian reports 
claimed U.S. Navy jets also went into 
action over the mountain area yes­
terday, but a U.S. military spokesman 
denied it. 
Syria, whose troops occupy the 
mountains with the Druse-Moslem 
anti-government forces, issued an ·ominous. warning to the United States. 
"Syria cannot stand neutral watch­
ing the barbaric bombardment 
practiced by the 6th Fleet against .Lebanese civilians," the Damascus government radio said. It said the Syrians "may be compelled to react." 
The U.S. Embassy here said, 
meanwhile, it was not yet consider­
ing a general evacuation of the es­
timated 1,500 U.S. citizens in Beirut. 
About SO more U.S. Embassy 
employees and dependents were 
airlifted out by helicopter yesterday 
to 6th Fleet ships offshore, U.S. 
Marine spokesman Maj. Dennis 
Brooks reported. That brought to 
civilians pulled out thus far, for 
transfer to the safety ofCyprus. 

Lebanon's embattled Christian president, U.S.-supported Amin Gemayel, remained out of sight yes­terday. Gemayel, whose Moslem­Christian Cabinet resigned last weekend, is trying to patch together a new "national coalition" govern­ment. But his Syrian-backed Lebanese enemies demand that he resign. 
The president's position suffered a major blow early this week when Shiite Moslem and Druse militiamen took control of west Beirut, driving out army troops and Christian militiamen. Thousands of army sol­diers have defected to the anti· Gemayel side. 
Along the "Green Line" separating Moslem West from Christian East Beirut, sporadic small arms and shell fire was heard yesterday. Local radio reports said army troops also clashed with militiamen in the port area and the Shiite-populated south· ern suburbs. 
Later yesterday, as night fell, Christian neighborhoods in East Beirut came under sustained bom­bardment, apparently from ar­tillerymen in Syrian-occupied Druse areas. 
Artillery ofthe Lebanese army and Christian militia, meanwhile, pounded population centers in the Druse-controlled hills southeast of the city and in the Shiite suburbs, the Druse-controlled radio said. The Christian militia is an arm of the 

"'~ ~ Princess Flowers C$ iA, C!J 703 W. McKinley Ave., Mishawaka r:!J • ~ * 255-4000 ~ 
~ ~l' "see us for Valentine's Day Flowers" '~<~ 
The trails are terrific, the
LIFE 
Kick 

scenery's spectacular. the nightlife is super. the 
food's great. and the peo­ple are warm. Michigan. The perfect place for you 
up your 
skis in 

and your cross-country 
skis to get away to. For 
snow and ski conditions, 
call our 24-hour toll-free 
number.
•

a un1que opportunity for 
Science (Majors/Minors) 
For you and the world itself. As a Peace Corps volun­teer, you can put your degree to work at a challenging, demanding and unique opportunity. You'll be meeting new people, learning a new language, experiencing a new culture and gaining a whole new outlook. And while your buildin~ your future, you'll help people in developing countnes in such areas as better science educatron, health care, fresh water fisheries extension projects, or natural resources and agricultural projects, all of which are critical for meeting their economic development needs. The financial rewards may not be great, but as a Peace Corps volunteer, the opportunity forgrowthiscertain. See Peace Corps 
Rep at Government Career Day 
on Feb 16 Film Seminar 
~ursday, Feb 16 at 7 p.m. 12 N~ewland Science Hall 
Interviews March 6 & 7 
Interested seniors can sign up in advance in Placement Office 
right-wing Phalange Party, headed 
by the president's father, Pierre 
Gemayel. 
The 6th Fleet destroyer Moosbrugger, in response to the shelling of East Beirut, opened up with its five-inch guns, U.S. spokes­man Brooks said. "It fired on artillery positions in the mountains east of Beirut, approximately I 50 rounds," he said. 
President Reagan, in a policy statement Tuesday announcing that the I,400 U.S. Marines in Beirut would be withdrawn in the coming weeks, also said 6th Fleet ships would retaliate against anyone firing on Beirut "from parts of Lebanon controlled by Syria." 
It was a forceful show of support for Gemayel. On Wednesday, the battleship Newjersey and destroyer Caron hammered military targets in Syrian-controlled areas in a half-day­long barrage, more than 550 shells. Lebanese government sources said both Druse and Syrian military posi­tions were destroyed. 
But yesterday, as uneasiness mounted in U.S. Congress over the expanded American role in the Lebanese conflict, White House spokesman Larry Speakes restated the U.S. policy on use ofthe 6th Fleet guns. 
He said the Reagan administration had worked out an agreement with Congress authorizing shelling only to protect U.S. serv icemen and other troops in the four-nation peacekeep­ing force here. 
There were no reports yesterday that the I,4oo·u.s. Marines dug in at the airpo rt on Beirut's southern edge had come under renewed fire. But Speakes told Washington repor­ters that any firing into Beirut endan-. gers the U.S. troops. 
The Lebanese state radio said warplanes also struck long-range ar­tillery batteries and rocket launchers yesterday in the moun­tains at Tars hish, 20 miles northeast of Beirut. 
The Phalangist radio said the planes were U.S. Navy jets, and a Syrian military spokesman in Damascus said U.S. F-14 jets had "interfered" in the area and were driven off by Syrian air defense crews. But Brooks said "there have been no air raids" by U.S. planes. 
.The identity ofthe reported air at· tackers could not be independently determined. American, Israeli and Syrian jets all made reconnaissance runs over the area earlieryesterday. 
The hostilities trapped thousand of Lebanese civilians in basements and other shelters along the Green Line and in the densely populated Shiite suburb of Hay Madi without food, water or medicine, said a Swiss spokesman for the International Red Cross, Serge Caccia. 
Police said the Lebanese civilian and rebel death toll could reach 400, with I,000 wounded, as a result of the pst week's fighting. The army said 60 ofits soldiers had been killed and 200 wounded. 
Foreigners of several nationalities were fleeing Beirut. U.S. helicopters are to airlift about I 50 British citizens out of west Beirut today, British officials said. 
The I IS-man British contingent in the internatonal peacekeeping force was flown out to a British navy vessel Wednesday. The Italian news agency ANSA said three private ferries might leave Italy this weekend to pick up the I,400 Italian soldiers in Beirut and bring them home. France, the fourth nation in the peacekeeping force, has not an-,. nounced withdrawal plans. · 
Brooks said ISO Marines would return to ships by today, but he said this had been planned before Reagan's redeployment announce­ment. 

SUMMER PROGRAMS 
ND-SMC STUDENTS 
LONDON 
ROME 
•

May 23 ·June 22 )==:(~June 17 ·July 16 
Trauel in Ireland Trauel in france 
Scotland ~ Franoz Germany~ Switzerland 
Courses in Art, Biology, Business, History Italian, Music, Sociology, and Theatre ;) 
~ /j'
(f!.__7;';l I 
~./-,.'

Informational meeting: Feb. 27th 
. \ ,,,,_,. 1/

Rm 249 Madeleva (SMC) ~ <\.\ Passport pictures will be I to'~:. 1 
tl~~, .~ i,

For further info. call taken 
lr~~;~\
'./ \1 
-~..-_...-.!.. ·:-~~

Prof. A.A. Black 4460 or 272-3726 
.. ­

The Observer Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 8 
Heart patient still alive after rare operation 

Associated Press 

PITTSBliR<ill -A rt:tired derk whose failing heart stopped more than 400 times within five days is leading an almost normal life after a rare opt·ration, and said yesterday he kels "wondt·rful." 
"I look at myself now and I fed much like I did before the problem evt-r oecurred," George Derrick, 6';, said in an interview after his daily 30-minute workout at his Pittsburgh home. 
!lis heart had been producing ab­normal electrical impulses resulting in rapid heartbeat, a disorder known as ventricular taehyeardia. Doetors blamed the problem on a heart at­tack in 19H.2 whieh produeed sear tissue that disrupted the organ's dcctrical system. 
In an unusual operation last Oc­tober, surgeons pinpointed the trouble with an ekctrieal monitor 
Senate 
continuedfrom page I 

promote "more interplay with HPC 
bt:causc "I IP<: and the senate arc too 
separate now." According to 
McNamara, hall presidents and 
st·nators should be working togeth­
t•r in making adjustments and im­
provt·mt·nts. 

McNamara says he would like to 
Sl'l' more use made of till' the 
Campus Lift: Council he<:ausc, he 
says, "it is the perfect forum to 
generate ideas or important con­
cerns." The council, composed of 
IIPC, tht· Studt·nt Senatt·, studt·nt 
body president. administration and 
faculty allows "cvt"I')'Oilt' to listen to 
t'Vl'l')'ont· and understand each 
otht-r." Mcnamara would like to st·t· 
till' coundl used in discussing the 
possihk dJan~w in alcohol policy. 
Rolincik. a Mathematics major, 
says thert· is a dt·finite nt·cd to 
providt· a party room ti>r Lyons resi­
dents, who art· prt·sently without 
on1:. lie says this could he worked 
out if"tht· people in tht· basement of 
Lyons move to the basement of 
Badin and the husint·ss in Badin be 
moved to LaFortune where it 
hdongs." 

Mt:Namara, a governmt·nt major, 
says ht· would like to see some physi­
cal t·hangt·s. both district and 
campus-wide. lk says ht· wants 
some copy machint·s on South <)uad 
and ha~ alreadr cht'l"ked into the 
fca~ihility of putting two ma1:hines 
in tht· South Dining llall and mayht· 
one in tht· Art·hitecture Building. 
With the agrn·ment of Lyons and 
Morrissq· rt·sidents, he would like 
to install lights on the basketball 
courb by Lyons. 
Campus-widt·, McNamara says he 
would like to simplify tht· concert 
t ickt·t lottery process hy making it a 
mail lottery. 
"I would likt· to sn· the academic 
year moved up a WtTk," says 
Mcnamara. lk says ht· would rathn 
start a Wt'l'k earlier in August, gt·t out 
a week t·arlkr in May and ht.· able to 
spt·nd mort' timt· before Christmas 
at home." lie says he is certain other 
studt·nts feel the same way. 
McNamara added that he would 
also like to work on <.·hanging the 
library from its "generk state" to 
one mort· conducive to relaxed 
studying. lie says this could he done 
with some redecorating and installa­
tion of new lights. 
Regarding a change in alcohol policy, Rolincik and Mcnamara arc against a dry campus. Rolincik says he would like to "look into how the whole alcohol problem came to he." lie says part of the probkm may he "tht· smallness of party rooms" and the fact that all some students do at parties is drink. lie says the existing alcohol policy should be re­emphasized and if necessary, some slight changes made in these policies. 
and removed the scar tissue. 
Doctors said Derrick's heart 
stopped an "extraordinarily un­
usual" number of times, hut they arc 
eonfidcnt he can kad a long, normal 
life. 
"I think this is a beautiful example 
illustrating what <:an he done," said 
Dr. Robert C. Schlant, vice chairman 
of the American Heart Association's 
Council on Clinical Cardiology. 
Last Oct. 23, Derrick awoke 
"gibbering unintelligibly." 
"My wife thought I was having a 
bad dream," he recalled. 
Within seconds, Derrick went in­to a coma and was taken to Jefferson Center Hospital in suburban Jeffer­son. Two days later, he was trans­ferred to Pittsburgh's West Penn Hospital. 
After drugs faikd to regulate Der­ricks' heartbeat, surgeons decided to try a complicated, costly proce­dure known as electrophysiology. 
Mcnamara says a dry campus would he "impractical and demean­ing" because it would make students feel irresponsible. He docs, however, sec alcohol abuse as a problem hut feels "the focus should 
he on parties and happy hours he-
AP Photo 
cause that's where the abuse is." Arrested striker Both Rolincik and Mcnamara reject a change in final exam policy 

Police arrest a Sikh agitator in this Sikh ho~y and religious autonomy for India's 13 million 
that would demand an exam to make 

ci~y Wednesday during a one-day general strike Sikhs. 
up one-third to two-thirds of a final 

called in support ofdemandsfor greaterpolitical
grade. 

................................., 
: we don't need no more trouble. t
i i
REGGAE 

• Party I Dance. Saturday. Chautauqua : 
iFeaturing Bob Marley, Peter Tosh, Jimmy Cliff : 
+ and other rasta{arians. As well as Ska favorites : : like The English Beat. + 
i i
9-1 a.m. $1

................................~ 
:~~~:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~~ 
·i)i Stud net Union takes you to... { 
ll). ASPEN \j\j 
i!j-Spring Break package: $265 \l\l ? 6 Nights Condominium Lodging { ( 5 Day Lift Ticket ? / More Info, Call Alyson or Debbie { 
.·••· ~,_~ • ~ '., II •..• 
( $50 Deposit Due Fn., Feb. 3.. { 
l~:\L:::::::::::::::::~=!:::~:~:=:!:~:~-~:~:!}?::!!I~~::!:::~~~:e=~~:::~:!:~:~:~:::::::::::::::J! 
• CELEBRATE ST. PATS EARLY••• AN IRISH EVENING 
with comedian Hal Roach and the PaddyNoonan Band 
Mon. Feb. 13th Washington Hall 8-JOPM Tue. Feb. 14th O'Laughlin Auditorium (SMC) 8-JOPM 
.TicKets $7.00 General admission at S. U. Ticket Office $5.00 with SMC/ND ID or O'Laughlin 
~~ •• 4fJ 
N I FEB. 13 CHANCE TO DANCE 
"' (After the show FREE with ticket stub) 
'i? 12PM Chautauqua !i §' Drawing for d..Inner for 2 at SenorKeUy's 1'¥ ~egv.o•r itk:ket _._ •• 
FREE-
Beautiful Oak 
Dry Erase Board 
Framed Bulletin
with purchase of Oak Bulletin Board 
Boards
(cork) 
18" x 24" plus Free Dry Erase Board ... $9.48 24" x 12" plus Free Dry Erase Board .•. $14.71 36" x 48" plus Free Dry Erase Board ... $25.94 
Bring in a NO-SMC J.D. and get 1 dozen Bic Pens for $1.00 (limit one dozen) 
We carry a full line of Office and School Supplies 
1/2 mile North 
of State Line 
2830 U.S. 33 South 
OF!ICE 
'MART 
684·7690 
Niles, Ml 






GREENHOUSE 
Hours: 9 till 9 
Roses $36dozen $3each 
Carnations $8.95 dozen $1.00 each 
Delivery available anywhere 272-5335 


Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 9 

A few last words on the Keenan Revue •. 
The Keenan Revue has come and gone for the eighth straight year. Like the legendary Camelot, it came together for a few brief shining moments. Now all that remains are some worn out props, a few tattered programs, bills and the lingering memories. 
RandyFahs 
Friday analysis 
Keenan Hall is returning to normalcy as it tries 
to avoid academic probation. 
As for me, after two years as the show's 
producer, it's time to close the books and pass 
them on to someone else. Like all things, the 
show itself is changing and developing. Ifthe 
Revue founders, Rick Thomas and Tom Lenz, 
were to return today, they would find it quite 
different from its humble beginnings. 
In the fall of 1976, Keenan Hall members put on the first Keenan Revue in Washington Hall to conquer their own boredom more than any other reason. Tickets were given away because that was the only way an , audience could be attracted. The show went 
over so well that another performance took place the following weekend. 
The Revue is still put together in two weeks time by the members of Keenan, and tickets are still free. But the show's scope, complexity and popularity have grown tremendously. Tickets have become a hot commodity for a show that has begun to operate more like a well-oiled machine than at anytime in its his­tory. 
After six straight years of financial losses, the show has managed to break even during the last two years because of fundraisers and donations. In a few years the show will have evolved beyond what it is today, but I hope it never loses sight ofits basic goals. 
The show is designed to bring together the 
talents and efforts of the hall members. It is as 
fun for them as for the audience. It must never 
become a "job" for its participants and it must 
remain free ofcharge. It is Keenan's gift to the 
community and it should never be used as a 
moneymaker. But, costs of production are 
tremendous and someday an imbecile will 
charge for Revue tickets. 
If that day arrives, the show as we know it 
will cease to exist. Ifadmission is charged, the Revue expenses will also rise because people will expect us to pay for things they have been giving us gratis or at reduced prices. More im­portantly, the mood and attitude of the audience will change. They will be more criti­cal, and not as likely to go to the show in the spirit offun and as our guests. 

Notre Dame Student Activities doesn't 
seem to understand this point very well. For 
the last two years they gave the Revue a. 
S1,000 grant, but they are threatening to stop 
this unless we charge admission. 
That breaks down to about 24 cents a per­
son (attendence for the three shows was 
about 4,200 ). How else can they expect to en­
tertain so many at so small a cost? 
I was misquoted in The Observer a week ago 
about whether or not Saint Mary's 
likes the Keenan Revue. To set the record 
straight, I said, "The ND/SMC theater depart­
ment hates us because we can fill houses so 
easily and they cannot." 
Saint Mary's Cbllegc and O'Laughlin 
Auditorium have bent over backwards to help 
us put on the show. Through the efforts of their theater manager, Randy Brown, and their director ofstudent activities, Mary Anne O'Donnell, they have eithersaved orspent the equivalent of $ 1,800 on the Keenan Revue. 
We are all ve1 y grateful for what they have done. We wish their enthusiasm could be -tranferred to certain offices and departments at Notre Dame. It does seem odd that a college one quarter of the size of Notre Dame could be so much more supportive ofa show which comes from this side of U.S. 31. 
On behalf of Keenan Hall, I would like to thank all of you who helped to put on the show. It was a big job that could only have come off as well as it did because ofeach per­son's contribution, no matter how large or small. 
We would also like to thank the audiences for their tremendous response; without them, there would be no reason to have a show. And lastly, on behalfofDirector David Magana and myself, I would like to thank the members of Keenan for their hard work and dedication to makingRevue Magic happen once again. 
We'll miss being a part of it after we graduate. 

p • 0 • BoxQ 

Meyer salute 
Dear Editor: 
Over the years the students at Notre Dame have proven to be very proficient at razzing opposing teams and their coaches. However tomorrow we wiU witness the last coaching visit of Ray Meyer at his alma mater. 
Not only have his teams provided us with plenty of thrilling games, Ray Meyer has been a credit to the sport. So when Meyer is in­troduced before the game we should give him a standing ovation. And it really wouldn't hurt to end the game that way either. 
Fritz Heinzen 
Church v . state 
Dear Editor: 
President Reagan signed a proclamation holidays (the latter even suggests that Chris­tianity is our national religion). 
Those among you, who do not wish to see "separation of church and state" carried to such ridiculous extremes, need to reverse the pendulum by organizing to take action now. We must demand freedom "of' religion-not freedom "from" religion! 
Milton F. Cragg 


Beerless bus 
DearEditor: 
In the midst of all of the current concern about the llniversity's policies next year regarding the consumption of alcohol, may it be emphasized that the bus trip to Purdue by the student body next year should not feature alcohol consumption. 
Five to seven thousand students will travel back and forth to Indianapolis for that game on Sept. 8, 1984. The University will prohibit 

1relied upon frequently. Bomberger's letter ad­
dresses the issue in a manner suggesting that 
pregnancy often ensues such cases. 
Statistics, however, indicate the number of 
rapes resulting in pregnancy is wdl below I 
percent. Ofcourse this does not imply we can 
simply dismiss those situations on the bases of 
their rarity, but compounding the shock and 
trauma of rape with another act of violence 
and destruction as some sort of panacea 
presents a disturbing paradox. 
True, the trauma of rape or an incestuous 
experience runs long and deep, but how 
much greater the tragedy if we should vic­
timize another human life in an attempt to al­
leviate the violation ofour person. 
Bomberger is accurate in that the fetus is 
not a "product of promiscuity," but neither is 
he the culpable manifestation ofan abhorrent 
act -the unborn child is an individual, inde­
pendent and sanctified human life -not the 
mere extension ofany act or another being. 
It is sadly ironic that some feel the woman 
"alone has the choice" concerning abortion, when not only is she carrying another human life, but is also only a partner in the procrea­tion of that life. 
In a grevious display of double standards, the rights of the father have been overlooked during recent court cases entailing abortions desired solely by the mother. 
We must avoid the easy and even somewhat understandable propensity to attach economic and emotional price tags to the life of the unborn. A fine veneer of altruism and sincerity too easily masks a modern morality which cringes at inconvenience, strength and self-sacrifice. 
Finally, Bomberger's allusion to "<thers" who feel a woman "will burn in hell" is not only irrelevant but .unfounded. Such ostensib­ly personal assaults on the pro-life movement arc unnecessary and out of place in a sound and adult argument involving abortion. 
Teresa DutuJl'an 



P. 0. BoxQ,NotreDame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the st~:~dents of the l"ni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present thl· views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community. and the free expression ofvarying opinions oncampus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief. .............................. David Dziedzic Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoc Executive Editor..._.............................Paul McGinn News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide News Editor.................._................Mark Worscheh Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor.......................................... Scoi:t Bower 
DepartmentManagers 
Business Manager .. ...ChriMopher Owen Con troller .............. ................... Alex Szilva.~ .4.dt•ertising Manager. .................. .Jeanie Poole Circulation Manager .. ......:\lark Miotto .~vstems Manager . .1\.evin Williams 
Founded November 3. 1966 
Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 10





Showcase 
Letters to a Lonely God 
The last frontier 

by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 
T
wo hullit·s wt:n· bouncingsnowhalls offtht: Sacrt:d Ht:art statue. wantnl to tdltlKm. "Pick on someom.-rour own size," hut it Sl'l'mnl inappropriate as a ddense of<iod. Ialso considered: "Would you do that if you knl'W lie would tight hack? lie has ten thousand guardian angds on his tl·am." It was only a statue, hut I'm very fond of it. I said a prayer of reparation, adding the divine excuse: "They didn't know what thl·y wt·re doing." 
!Iolden Caufield. in "Catchn in thl· Rye," spent a day in New York worryingahout what happens in winter to the ducks in Central Park. The groundskn·pl·rs take care ofthe dut·ks. Who kl·eps an eye on the Cl·ntral Park squirrds? Mothn Nature takes care ofthem; that is why you lind some of them frozt:n to death. An old pril'st spt:nt his last yt·ars fn·tting over tht: Dutch elms on campus. Disease finally got a lot of them. Nature can he ml·an, and people take pleasure in being destructive. Wonderful old windows have to he takt:n out oftheir frames and become museum pit.'ct:s, to protect them from the wt·athl'f or human senselessnt:ss. There aren't enough catchers in the rye to go around, deft-nding old, sacred beauty from the iconoclasts. llolden Caufield, by himsdf, couldn't have dont: much to save the ducks. 
Thl· snow brings out tht· best in me if it is ft-athery, virginal, and playful. My dog, Darhy O'<iillll, is at homt: in the snow. Ht: is able, some days, to walk on top ofit, as our Saviour's dog, if tie had ont:, might have scampt·red across the wavt:s ofGalilee. He plunges into the drifts as though he WlTe an Olympic swimmer navigating the lt:ngth ofa pool, and t:mt:rges with his muzzle covered with fine little crystals of powdned snow. I lis coat is thick enough to protect him; othnwisl· he would end up with a frost-bitten tush. lie rolls on his hack in thl· whitl'nt·ss and buries his nose in the piles lt:ft by the plow where a lunch may ht· huril..·d. It's only bread ldt out for tht: birds thatlw's hurllingli>r. lk thinks it's his trt·at, and it's a waste oftime to argue with him. I hit him with a handful ofsnow, to gt:t his attention. I k is patient, likl· a statue, wht·n Iattack him. At night in winter, com· ing hack from a walk to Darby's Plan·. hl· snores likl· a longshoreman. 
lie is worn out like a child exhausted from a day at Disneyland 
You have to have a sense of humor to enjoy the winter. It's the season ofindignitit:s. A trt:e may unload its branches as you're pao;­sing underneath, sendingsnow showers sifting down your neck. You can takt: pratfalls on the sidewalk where grownup children, by their sliding, have turned the snow into ice as treacherous as glao;s. Domers as gamesome ao; street urchins usc a snt:ak attack to chal­lenge you to a snow hattie. When you're fired on by snipers, you can either fight or run. In the guerilla warfare of winter, you're either a coward or a hero. Pacifism is not allowed as an t:xcusc for going home. 
Two readers wrote to tell me I'm suffering from a Peter Pan syndrome. I know I'm not Peter Pan; he still has his first teeth. I don't have all ofmy second teeth. In the winter wonderland, I'm Peter Pan, the boy who doesn't want to grow up. You have to face many fron­tit:rs on your way to the country where you arc finally old Eyesight dims; passion fails; the appetite becomes feeble. Winter is the last frontier. When winter has lost its appeal, vou know your fire has gone out. There's no place left to go aftercrossing that final frontier. A February blizzard separates the men from the boys. When the wind chill factor is 23 degrees below zero, I'm Peter Pan, the youngest male on campus. 
South Bend winters can be merely nasty; rain changing to sleet or freezing rain. I grew up in Maine, where you developt:d your charac­ter by surviving the winter. Francois Villon asks: "Where are the snows ofyesteryear?" I fecllucky when the kind ofsnows I remem­ber come to Notre Dame, bringing high excitement to the quad-;. 
People wa~te a lot ofspace in newspapers scolding each other. I encourage you to play the gamt:s ofwinter. Fortunately, the Fighting Irish don't have an arm strong enough to land a snowball at the feet ofOur Lady on the Dome. Ifyou tried it, the snowball would fall apart before it landed. A snowball is only temporary, not pt:rmanem and vicious like a rock. You would aim a snowball at such a symbol because it's a target you can't resist. People are more sacred than symbols, but symbols have a dignity that deserve respect. It doesn't cost anything to be kind to landmarks. In placesao; vandalized as Fort Apache, the Bronx, the landmarks survive from winter to winter. 
ZZ Top needs mor1 




Pursuing a vision; 'Heat Seeking Chairs' oper 

by Robert Mackie 
guestfeatures writer 
point of reaction. William McKee has a tenacious !-beam and lead sheet sculpture, who with Heter Favier's "Muting the Morning," hold a meditative serenity. Sherie Simons' "Problems at Home" hls created a gift for the nuclear family, satirical humor matched by "Harnessed Ag­gression," where Jim Huonaccorsi takes us into the mt:dieval future. 
What maltes this exhibition a valuable experience is its invitation to dialogue and dt:hate over what is and what should ht: art. These 23 ar­tists are in pursuit of the vision of our age with the images of our time. 


A
rt is essenr_iallly a pol'li~· justin·. ao acrobat~<: consumption of the known to the edge of knowledge. It is a fulcrum ht·tw,·t·n thl· vision and the image. With this quality ofinten­tion. 25 artists from tht· Cranbrook Academy ofArt have hamkd togt·th­n to limn an t·xhihition titkd "Ill-at StTking <:hairs." 
Though the group reprl'Sl·ntsfour difl"ercnt dcpartml·nts, all works of an in this show are snllptural. As divl·rsl· as personalities and training may ht·, a subtle didwtomy St'l'ks its level in each of the works. !Ising the nrltural valut·s ofour time. can tht· tkhatt· hl·t Wl'l'n a formal pursuit of matt·rial bt·auty and the work of art as a st-rvit'l' vehicle to other means hl· sut'l't·ssfully resolvt·d? It's paradoxit'al ami may on the surfal"l' Sl'l'lll mutt·, l'asily dekgated to a minor catt·gory ofart criticism, hut insistently it returns. Can tht· vision ofthe art in the act ofits making sus­tain a \'irtuosity equal to that ofthe ohjn·t and its imagt·? Thl· point of tkparturt· is the meaningofart made in the 'HOs ti>r the culture ofthe 'HOs. 
If onl· can rt·sist tht· conscrvativt· notions pt·rmt·ating our sodety, ofa return to thl· good old days, dt•;tr cut ddinitions, institutionalize stan­dards and importt·d valul·s, what remains apparnll is a sodety con­fronting its cultural stratifications and pluralization. An Aml.'rica criti­cal and acceptant of itsdf hut in nl.'nl ofgt·ttinJ.: bt·yoml its own promotiona I campaign. 
The artists and thdr work presentnl in "I kat Seeking Chairs" challenge tht·msdves with this same critical acceptann·. Most of the works are successful. The range of interpretations include very tight, 
highly skilkd objects oftechnique as in "Sometimes I Fed like a jerk" hy Mary Mock, "Miracle of the lloly Tortilla" by Mack Christianson and "Stick IIoust·" by Lc:e Tate. 'Where tht· concern is not with the isolated hl·autiful object, hut in an inter­activt·, sdf-intcrpn·tativt: ex­pnknce, the graffiti chamber ofAnn Trt·adwell"s "Fair is Fair," and Leslie Anstt·th in "Pipt· Fittings' and Beth <ic:rstdn's "Touch Me II" tt·st tht· 

Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 11 

than videos and albums 




Perhaps still only a 'second rate Skynyrd' 
F

or ZZ Top fans, last night's con­
cert was eagerly awaited. The gro up was still enjoying the com­mercial success of their surprisingly solid album, Eliminator, along with a string ofentertaining videos. It seemed that the band had taken a refreshing, contemporary direction in the 1980s. (This has not always been the case for a group once labeled as "second rate Lynyrd Skynyrd.") Even last year's tour seemed special only because ofthe addition of38 Special as the opening group, not because ofany recent contributions on ZZ Top's part. But, once again, this year was different. 
And so was the warm up group, The Eric Martin Band. A group of musicians from California, The Eric Martin Band, assaulted the stage at 8 o'clock, and immediately one sensed that something was wrong. First ofall, Eric Martin sported a Notre Dame t-shirt which only alienated the band from the darner­less crowd. And second, the band promised to deliver "kick-ass rock· n-roll," but instead gave the audience a predictable unoriginal, and boring set ofroughly ten songs. Such routine song titles as "Action and Adventure," "Take No For an 
sat the Isis 
by Pat Beaudine 

features staff writer 


Answer," and "Don't Stop Baby" give a quick tip offthat this band has no­thing new to offer. 
The band's power chord ap­proach showed that the band was ultimately conservative, which is never part of true rock-n-roll. However, when they could rise above the slick routine, they proved to be an earnest band, and did succeed in warming up the audience. But, a half hour more inside the cars with steamed-up win­dows in the A.C.C parking lot, the 
audience would have probably been warmed up anyway. 
In the interim the excitement in­creased. Finally, over a halfhour later, ZZ Top took the stage and pounded out "Under Pressure" from the Eliminator album. It was a favorable start to the evening, and its first dass delivery exhibited a revitalized ZZ Top. The song that followed, "I Got The Six," was again expertly delivered, including an ex­tended guitar solo which deserved, and received good response. Billy Gibbons, the lead singer/guitarist, then introduced "Gimme All Your Lovin." One ofthe best songs from 
Eliminator, it drew rousing ap­
plause, and the concert seemed well 
on its way to success. 
However, the night soon went sour. By the time ''I'm Nationwide" was performed three songs later, the group's mere guitar solos turned in­to excessive jams, and all the fun likewise disappeared. The danceable beat was unfortunately substituted by a heavy metal drone that even a good song like "Sharp Dressed Man," the follower, couldn't overcome. 
An incomprehensible "Ten Foot Pole" and "TV Dinners" continued the evening's demise. Both were better left on vinyl and even though they yielded generous applause, all the dancing in the aisles had stopped, which is never a good sign for a Southern boogie band. Later in the set, Gibbons tried to resuscitate the crowd during "Pearl Necklace" by thrice shouting, "Are you wifh us tonight?" The answer was almost too evident. The audience stuck it out, while the concert surprisingly gained momentum toward intermis­sion with "Cheap Sunglasses" and "Party on the Patio." However, it wasn't the music that gained inten-



sifted -it stayed the same heavy metal drudge -this time it was the phenominallaser show that came to the rescue. 
During the intermission, the excitement once again increased. And by the time ZZ Top returned, the fervor was at such a level that the crowd didn't seem to mind that "Tube Snake Boogie" was only mediocre. "La Grange" and "Tush," 
Such an end to the concert was very fitting. Not only did it em­phasize the overall tone of the eve­ning, but it also showed that a band must be more than just videos and albums. In other words, with outings such as these, ZZ Top may never be more than a "second rate Skynyrd." 


(1) l. Girls Just Want To Have Fun, Cyndi Lauper 
t 
(2) 
2. Send Me An Angel, Real Life (-) 3. 99 Luftballoons, Nena • 

(8) 
4. In A Big Country, Big countrye 


(3) 
5. Major Tom, Peter Schilling 

(5) 
6. Jump, Van Halen 


(4) 7. Karma Chameleon, Culture 
Club (-) 8. Uptown Girl, Billy Joel 
(7) 9. Talking In Your Sleep, Romantics 
10. I Like, Men Without Hats 

Numbers in bold type indicate the position the single held on last week's Top 10. You can hear Kurt Shinn countdown the Top 10 Sunday nights at 7. 
WSND is giving away almost $1,000 in merchandise next week, Feb. 12-18. It is called Rip Off Week. Free pizzas, free movie tickets, free hair styling, free flowers, and more! All you do is call in to win. Tune in to AM64 from 4-10 p.m. There is a rip off every hour. 




Showcase 
Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 12 


Returning alumna breathes new life into Abiogenesis 
Allyn will also give a lecture titled
by Steve Blaha 
"How to Watch Modern Dance."

guest features writer 
The presentation will include videos of the work offamous dancers and 
I
n keeping with its goal to Allyn founded and directed the choreographers. 
showcase dance expertise to the Abiogenesis Dance Collective prior 
Also included is a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­to moving to New York. Since her 
lecture/demonstration on stretch­

munity, the Abiogenesis Dance Col­departure from ND, She has danced ing which will cover everything•MUSIC lective will host guest artist Angela under Hanya Holm, Don Redlich, 
from simple warm-up stretching to

In recognition of Black History Week (Feb. 11-18), The Colfax Allyn for a teaching and performing Nancy Hauser, Alwin Nikolais, Gus 
extensive workouts. The lecture residency at Notre Dame starting Giordano, Greg Begley, Tara MittonCultural Center will be presenting "Black Music; Sacred and Secular" 
by Reginald (iammon and a jazz combo hy Lawrence Dwyer at 7 p.m. will be directed towards anyone
today through Feb. 20. and Holly Searer, and has studied 
with an active lifestyle and especialy kinesiology and physiology.

tomorrow. The center is located at 914 Lincolnnway West, South Allyn, currently a dancer, teacher to athletes who are concerned with
Bend. On Sunday in Moreau Hall's Little Theatr~ at Saint Mary's , the and choreographer in New York While in residence, Allyn will give preventing injury. Wabash Men's Choir and SMC Women's Choir will be performing at City, received her B.F.A. from ND in lectures, demonstrations and classes Another lecture/demonstration 8p.m. 1983 and is presently working on a in jazz and modern dance as well as titled"Movement for Stress Manage­Also on Sunday, Janet Kitts will present her graduate clarinet reci­Master ofArts degree in dance at in related disciplines. Her jazz class ment" will focus on relaxation and tal at H p.m. in the Annenhurg. Columbia University. She also will cover the simple movements deep breathing exercises aimed at 
•ART teaches ballet, jazz and movement that combine to create the more relieving tension in stressful situa­
Two new exhibits will be opening at noon on Sunday in the War­for athletes, at Columbia and directs complex routines characteristic of tions or in every day life. ncr Gallery at The Art G:ntcr, 120 S. St. Joseph St., South Bend ."Two "A Quo," a performance art col­shows such as "All thatJazz." The For more information call Steve Summers: Gardens/Islands: Recent Paintings by Yves Lifton," will laborative ofdancers, writers, com­
class is recommended for both ex­Blaha at 283-828 or Mitch Wernt:r at highlight the influence of abstract landscapists Claude Monet and posers and visual artists. perienced and novice dancers. 283-3119. Joseph W"illiam Mallord Turer upon the artist. The paintings were produced as a result of summers spent in France and Maine. The second t:xhibit,"Making It In Paper: An Indiana Mill," focuses upon the accomplishments ofTwinrocker Inc., a handmade paper studio in Brookston, Indiana. 
•MOVIES "48 IIRS." will be shown tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering auditorium. The movie depicts the story ofa policeman, Nick Nolte, who is pursuing three criminals, one ofwhich is a known cop killer. Convict Eddie Murphy, who was formerly associated with tht· threesome assists Nolte. The film will be shown at 7, 9, and II 
p.m. and admission is SI. SO. 
The Friday Night Film Series will be presenting "La Nuit de Varennes" at 7:30 tonight. This French film depicts the story ofthree men, Thomas P-aine, Casanova, and Rest if de Ia Bretonne who are attempting to leave the country during the the French reign of ter­ror. Admission is S2.SO. 
The Monday Night Film Series will present "Law and Order". This 1969 Emmy Award-winning film depicts a portrait of the working lives of Kansas City policemen. The movie will be shown at 7 in the Annenhurg. Monday'ssecond feature will be "Miracle in Milan". Vit­torio Dt· Sica retkcts his debt to surrealistic comedy in this 19SO film. This fairy tale is a parable ofthe rich and poor which concludes not with a proletarian revolution, but with the poor flying over the Catht·dral of Milan on broomsticks. It will be shown at 9. 
•MASS The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church will have the 
following celebrants: Father Charles Corso, at S: IS p.m. (Saturday night vigil) FatherJohn Van Wolvlear, at 9 a.m. Father Michael McCafferty, tat 10:30 a.m. Father Stephen Gibson at 12: 1S p.m. 
•THEATRE 

Tomorrow night, The Black Cultural Arts Festival will be present­ing "Living Memories -The Achievement of a Dream," a one act play by Sandra Hodge. The play will begin at 8 in the Annenburg and admission is free. 
The South Bend Civic Theatre will continue its presentation of We can do nothing more than move
by Vic Sciulli 
"Who's Afraid ofVirginia Wooit?" this weekend. The play, written by Headlong through the gloom Edward Albee and directed by Jim Coppens, will be at 8:30 in the features staffwriter The thorn between our lips is the Firehouse theatre, 701 Portage Ave., South Bend. For reservations Missionaries tune call 291-8923. The electric guitar is back and Big Fire," which sounds suspiciously Men with open arms 
Country has it. like a cross between the themes Turn their faces halfaway 
•NAZZ from "Bonanza" and "The Lone Ran­Observe as we approach
The Crossing, the debut album
Tonight,John Kennedy andJoe Dolan will present a Nazz favorite ger." (The song was a big hit for the That we have not come to save 
from Britain's Big Country is one of
-Songs and'Stories from the pubs ofIreland, starting at 9. Tomor­We stand as thick as vines
band in the U.K and is almost certain

the most significant LPs produced in
row night,Jim Bustamente and Scott Major will perform from 9:30-? to become one in the states.) Listen­Though the fruit is torn away
the past several years. Released in 
ing to it, one realizes that it is not as There is no beauty here friends 

•DANCF. late 1983, the album marks the 
easy to break up the band's sound in­just death and r .ank decay

There will be a dance tomorrow night from 9-l in the LaFortune return of the electric guitar as the 
to components as is often the case

Ballroom. The event is being sponsored by the Notre Dame/Saint main sound in contemporary music. 
with other bands; the three guitars,

Mary's Ground Zero and will feature Reggae music. Admission is l $. With its three-pronged guitar threat, Big Country formed in late 1982 
one drum and four vocals form a

Big Country erases any doubt that when vocalist/guitarist/keyboardist 
very unified sound.

•MISCEllANEOUS the electric guitar is dead in today's Stuart Adamson, who first gained 
The Ground Zero organization is sponsoring "Three Minutes to world of Moog synthesizer and Admittedly, the lyrics in The prominence with The Skids and Midnight -An Exploration of the Nuclear Dilemma" this weekend. Synares dominated pop. Crossing are a bit abstruse at times Bruce Weston teamed up with Tony The program will feature a series of lectures on Saturday. The Ifyou have any doubts, just listen but at least Big Country didn't cop Butler and Mark Brzezicki who had lectures will be held in rooms I 16, 117, and I 18 of O'Shag. at 10 out with a bunch ofsappy love already gained a good reputation as
to "In A Big Country," the band's a.m., II. I p.m.. and 2. They will cover various topics in relation to songs. The LP's title suggests a studio musicians with Pete
debut American single which the arms race and nuclear weapons. On Sunday, the program con­theme ofjourney or discovery in Townshend and the Pretenders.
cracked into the Top 20. Not since tinues with ·r special discussion game in which the audience will be "the frontier." Songs like the "The The band's fresh sound is hard to
Boston's debut LP almost eight yearsasked to r:• t idpate. This will be held in the library auditorium at 3 Storm," "Fields ofFire" and "Harvest categorize. According to Adamson,
ago has the guitar been used so ef­
p.m. A''· "rrnday, the "Three Minutes to Midnight Debate: Do Home," though not written by "Big Country (sic) are not punk.
fectively in a pop album. You'll More ' '· Buy More Security?" will be held. The debate will Americans, do reflect the time when new wave, heavy metal, progressive
swear that you're hearing bagpipe~featun: ( nor John Gilligan (Law School) and Bernard Norling pioneers crossed the ll.S. in search or pop. If you really want me to tell
in the background but that's only
( Histor,· ; ,·t.) and will begin at 7 in The Center for Social Con-ofthe unknown West. The morose you what we're about, then I'd say 
one of the many sounds the guitar cerns. 'ih movies on the nuclear dilemma will be shown today "Lost Patrol," the strongest of these, Big Country plays stirring, spirited
makes. 

from :' Jlld tomorrow from 12:30-S in the Lafortune Little deals with the unhappy aspects of stuff. Music to move mountains by." Theall· The same thing goes for "Fields of this crossing. More power to them. 


-~-----------------------------., 
1 

Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team beat Wayne St., 73-47, yesterday. The men will take their 7-2 record into a meet with St. Bonaventure tomorrow at 1 p.m. in the Rockne MemoriaL The Irish have beat the Bonnies each ofthe last four years. 
-The Obsen,er 
Interhall wrestling tournament entries are due today, Feb. I 0, at the NVA office. Halls may register as teams, and contestants will be notified of date and time of tourney. Weight classes will be 123, 130, I 3 7, 145, 152, 160, 167, 177, and unlimited. 
-The Observer 
The off-campus hockey team will have 
practice this Sunday, Feb. 12, at I 0:15. The next game is Feb. 13 at 
10:30. -The Obseroer 
Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 13 

The Notre Dame-Detroit women's basketball 
game on Tuesday, February 14, has been designated as "Dorm Night" by the athletic department. The dorm which has the greatest turnout (by percentage of students in the dorm) will be awarded S I 00.00 worth of Godfather's Pizza for a dorm pizza party. If you want to see more information, ask your R.A. who should have received a flyer in the maiL -The Observer 
Gerry Faust will be speaking at an organiza­
tional meeting for potential freshmen managers on Monday, Feb. 13, at 6:45 p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. Anyone interested in the Student Managers Organization is invited to attend. Also, we will be showing the 1983 football highlight film. Those with questions should call 239-6482. -The Observer 
~••ann
Buy 
Observer 
Valentines 
The Observer t Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the th t ird floor ofHaggar College center, acceptsclassifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next­
day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING SERVICE 277-8045 WILL PICK UP & DELIVER 
EXPERT TYPIST 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­HERS! Surf's up but our prices aren't From just $109.00 -spend 7 fun-filled days In sunny Florida. Call lor yourseH or organize a small group and travel FREEl Great lor clubs, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 3611-2006, ask lor An­nette. 
CRANSTON FOR PRESIDENT Anyone 1nterested in campaigning for Alan Cranston in the upcoming Democratic pnmaries contact Terry at 8764 CRANSTON FOR PRESIDENT 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
Sorry, Bucko 
ATTENTION NORTHEASTERNERS. IN­TERESTED IN LIVING DOWN THE N.J SHORE THIS SUMMER? CALL PAT 8762 FOR DETAILS 
ASKEW FOR PRESIDENT ALL IN­TERESTED IN HELPING WITH AS­KEW'S MOCK CONVENTION ORGANIZATION ARE ENCOURAGED TO CONTACT PAUL AT 1586. ASKEW FOR PRESIDENT THE DIFFERENT DEMOCRAT 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: One gray and white thin-striped long sleeve shirt with a small hole on the top lett shoulder. It was accidentally put in someone·s laundry by St. Michael's Laundry Serv1ce before Christmas. II you have 11. please return to Jim at X1101 
LOST· One cnmson-colored warm-up 1acket wrth the word Harvard" on the back. LAST SEEN in the ACC on 1/21/84 Reward offered. Please call GREGAT277-5062. 
A blue Ad<lldas book bag was lost at the South D1ning Hall on 2/2. II found pleasse call Chuck at 1972. 
LOST: Set ol keys on lhFee nngs and a toenail clipper were lost Friday. Jan. 21, 1984 at Corby Bar. Please call 234· 7256. Very much needed. 
FOUND: MAN'S TIMEX WATCH IN PSYCH. BLDG. LAST WEEK. CALL LUCY AT 1340 TO IDENTIFY. 
FOUND: BLUE FOLDUP CHAIR IN S. QUAD CALL 5451 MUST IDENTIFY 
Found: A gold bracelet inbetween Flanner and P.W. on Saturday N1ght. To Cla1m please call Ellen at4558. 
I FOUND THE HEAD OF A CASIO WATCH IN FARLEY HALL IS IT YOURS? IF SO CALL ME AT 4263 AND TELL ME WHERE YOU LOST IT. 
lost!! 18-20 burgundy beaded necklace of great sentimental value lost some­where between O'Shag and South Dining Hall on tuesday at noon. if found please call Beth at283·6747 or 283·6745 
Lost-D1amond and sapphire nng. Belonged to Grandma. Great sentimental value. II loung please call 284-4437. Reward 
VISITING FRIEND GOT COLD NO WELCOME THURS PM AT RAFFERTYS-MISSING WOMANS GREY WOOL COAT-CALL 4420 
MISSING ONE GOLD SIGNET RING (LETTER T") ONE GOLD 1930 CLASS RING WITH DARK BLUE SAPPHIRE, INSIDE INSCRtP-TION: H E MANSKE 
P.H.B. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT MIKE AT 283-1573, 456 CAVANAUGH HALL REWARD OFFERED NO QUES­TIONS ASKED 
FOUND: ONE PAIR OF HOCKEY GLOVES AT THE ICE ARENA ON MON­DAY NIGHT. CALL2n-6464 TO IDEN­TIFY. 
LOST-MEN'S DRESS LEATHER GLOVES~ LEFT EITHER IN SMC LIBRARY OR IN LEMAN'S LOBBY ON FEB. 7. IF YOU KNOW OF THEIR WHEREABOUTS, CALL 283-1596. THANKS. 
LOST: BLACK CONCORD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER STRAP, GOLD HANDS AND BLACK FACE. LOST FEB. 1 BETWEEN EMIL REVIEW AND PW. CALL MAGGIE 2964. 
FOR RENT 
AVAILABLE NOW· Efficiency apartment near Notre Dame on busline, 255-8505. 
ONE BDRM,DEN,BATH,KTCHN-10MIN TO ND $120 MONTH 232-7173 
Need one FEMALE ROOMMATE. Rent $97.50 per month Notre Dame Apts. Call Cathy at283-6786 
WANTED 
Summer Sales Position. Average ear­nings $2700. Sell yellow page advertising lor Notre Dame and Western Michigan University Campus Telephone Direc­tories. Spend 5 weeks in Notre Dame and 5 weeks in Kalamazoo. Car necessary. No summer school students. Lodging and one meal per day provided while in Kalamazoo. Sign-up for campus interview by calling 1-800-334-4436 by Feb. 17. Ask lor Barbara Nieukirk. 
RIDERS Needed to Ann Amor this Weekend Feb. 10 • 12. Call Maria at284­4094 
FOR SALE 
Want to know whafs really going on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONA'­CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a tree sample copy, call Paul at 2n-4851. 
SPRINGSTEEN ON VIDEO BOTH THE RIVER AND BORN TO RUN TOURS CALL233·1476 
FOR SALE. PIONEER TURNTABLE AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST OF­FER CALL 8046 
Two round tnp plane tickets for Spring Break Chicago to Tampa. In-eludes ride to and from Chicago. Make offer. Call 5485 or 5484. 
For Sale •• New LEATHER JACKET Never used RaCing style Handmade Can be used in ra1n or snow Priced to sell last call Rafael x3248 
TICKETS 
I NEED DE PAUL TIX'S. WILL EX­CHANGE MARQUETTE TIX'S OR CASH. CALL JOEL AT t 570 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX CHRIS 8229 
I'll pay you TOP $$ NOW lor agreement on up to 5 commencement tix. Earn $$ and help preserve my place in family will. Call Dan 1n eves at 287-6273 
NEED 2 DEPAUL GA's. Call Kathy at 2966. 
Earn A LOT of$$. I need 2 or 3 DEPAUL GAs. Call Chris 3417. 
$$$ I need 3 DePaul tickets! Call Laura x8130 $$$ 
HELP!!! IN DIRE NEED OF DE PAUL TIX. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 3540. 
I'm DYING of a terminal cold and have yet to see DEPAUL-NO LIVE. Need tiCkets to complete my life. ED -8938 
Wanted 4 Marquette G.A:s-Call Tom at 3039 
l NEED DePAUL TIX CALL 8046. 
NEED 4 DEPAUL GA'S. FAMILY HAS NEVER SEEN AN ND BASKETBALL GAME. WILLING TO PAY BIG$$$. TOM 6970 
Need 2 stu. tix for the Marquette game. Call1388 
INEED2DEPAULGA'SCALL TBOBAT 7820 • 
HAVE CASH · NEED MARQUETTE TICKETS CALL MATT x1228 
Need 2 DePaullix. Call John x1238 
Need Marquette tix. Call Jay at283-6756 
NEED 2 Depaul tickets. Will pay$$$. Call 277-6392 
I NEED DEPAUl TIXS.272~ 
NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S. PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Keith 1180 
Need 2 DePaul G.A. Tix $$ call284-283 
Need 2 pepaul GA's $ Call284-4283. 
NEED 2 DEPAUL STU Tilt CALL KEN AT234-0283 
HELP!!!!! I need 3 G.A.s for the Marql.lltte Game. Call321 1 PLEASE! 
NEED 2-4 DEPAUL G.A. TICKETS. FAMILY COMING IN FROM CHICAGO­WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 1761. 
MARQUETTE TIX? I need two student tickets to the Marquette game. Please call 1388 
....................... 
FRIENDS CAN'T MAKE THE GAME. 
MUST SELt 6 DEPAUL TIX Call Rich at 
3476. 
HELP MEl! I need MU TIX Will pay$$$ for them Call8440 
NEED 2 DEPAUL GAs, GREG 1 On 
I need DePaultix call 8046 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLO REER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE. SEND A BELL YGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK! PH. 272-1858 
Yes. ft"s me again. 
John Libert 
Sunday(no, you can't see me tonight!) Gym2 BPM 
Grace won't be amazing .. 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
·Students with Divorced or Separated Parents Discussion and Support Group .. Please Join us Sunday evenings in Rm 11 0 B-P und share your experiences and love. Time 9:30-10:30. More Info. call 3194. 

LOVE IS•••FLOWERS ON VALENTINE'SDAYI REGINA'S VALENTINE CARNATION SALE BUY FOR A LOVE AOR THAT SPECIAL FRIEND! ORDER FEB 5-9 4:30·6PM AT SMC DINING HALL CARNATIONS . 75 EA. DELIVERED FEB 14 
It's a Funky Reggae Party, and It's Saturday Night Chataqua. 9-1.$1. 
Happy 21 s1 birthday. Colleen!!! Have a great day and an even better year!!! Thanks lor being such a special roommate and friend! Watch out CORBY'S here comes COLLEEN SUL­LIVAN!!! 
EXODUS 
Movement ofJah people 

OBSERVER VALENTINESIOBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! 
NA NA NA NA-NA NA NA NA -HEY HEY HEY --GOOOODBYE RAY MEYER 
BOOKSTORE FEVER .... Catch it!!! 
Oh. to be at Kirkwood, now that spring is here 
.or Heavenly .. orAspen. or Park City ... or Steamboat. 

oranywhere with sun, snow, and some vertical .. 
Hey you Wh~ehouse 
Ha ha charade you are 
Pink Tabloid 
GTW LDTBGACTGS 

I NEED DePAUL TIX. CALL 8046 
AAAn stock &teals food. DAN STOCK T STEALS FOOD. DAN STOCK STEALS 
CJ I did pick a wlnner-1 picked you! love KK 
Cecil, You can play with us anytime you want! The Field Hockey Women 
Janet Droblnske, Happy 22nd Birthday! Love, Mom and Dad 
BUY 

OBSERVER VALENTINES 
LAST DAY! subm~ Mardi Gras !-shirt design to Student Activ~ies 
NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI THIS WEEKEND? CALL EMILE X3no 
BUY OBSERVER VALENTINES 
MISSING ONE GOLD SIGNET RING (LETTER T') ONE GOLD 1930 NOTRE DAME CLASS RING WITH DARK BLUE SAPPHIRE, INSIDE INSCF,UPTION: 
H.E MANSKE· P.H.B. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT MIKE AT 283-1573, 456 CAVANAUGH HALL REWARD OF­FERED NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
SENIOR CLASS T-SHIRTS ON SALE NOW! GET THEM AT THE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE (1.5 LAFORTUNE) ON MONDAY, FEB. 13 THRU TO THURS. fEB. 16 FROM 1:00 TO 4:00. ALSO AVAILABLE FROOM YOUR DORM REPS. REMEMBER YOUR SENIOR YEAR! 
SENIOR SKATING PARTY SATURDAY NIGHT FROM 10:30 TO 12:30. COST IS fREE AND CORBY'S AFTER THE SKATING FOR BEVERAGES. 
SENIOR CLASS VALENTINES COCK­TAIL PARTY HAS BEEN CHANGED TO THURS. FEB. 16. COME PARTY AT THE MONOGRAM ROOM FOR $3.00, TICKETS ST THE DOOR. 
fREE ENEMAS? NO, IT'S THE RHTHYM METHODS! DANCE BAND FOR HIRE. DAVE 3207 ROGER 3103 
ATTENTIONIIAND HERE WE GO AGAIN-DO YOU HAVE A PARTY, SYR OR FORMAL THAT YOU NEED THE MUSIC SUPPLIED FOR??? THEN CALL WSND-FOR ONE LOW PRICE YOU TOO CAN HAVE A PROFE~ SIONAL OJ, ENGINEER, AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLE!!! CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 239-7425 OR 283-1153. THE DATES ARE FILLING UP QUICK SO CALL TODAYIIIIII WSND PARTY REMOTE5-THE BEST EQUIPMENT, THE BEST PRODUC­TION AT THE BEST PRICEIII 
It's a RIP-OFF!!! 
It's a RIP-OFF!!! 
At ND/SMC a crime is committed every hour! d.Jring RIP-OFF WEEK on WSND. Almost $1000 worth ollree stuff to you! Jusl'listen from 4-10:00 P.M. Feb 12-18. You can't afford not to! 
Season l1Ckets to S.U. movies. FREE!!! WSND Rip-011 Week. 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS 
WEEKEND. Nearlng desperation tactics. Call Greg at 8284 to save me from lrostlite. 
Neil Maune is a man-god! 
What kind of warranty do you get on a Mary's D1·Hard? 
A wann, wet welcome to all the vanous and Sundry vis~ors to that grand Helv1an palace known as Szilvas House. One caution: beware of Straub's Sanctuary when the radio is on. 
SLIP SLIDIN' AWAYIII Go Irish leers -skate all owr Penn State!II 21-1 
"COACH": THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES. 
OMAHA. NE (CREtGTON U.) ANYONE?? Ride or riders needed to Omaha !for the weekend of Feb. 24 • 26. Will share usual. Call Jeanne at3484. 
Sorry, Doll This is the last time· for a per­sonal that is. How are you gonna go dan­cing without your partner? NOT 
TO A CERTAIN FRESHMAN GIRL IN FARLEY · CHRIS, WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN? JUST TWO DAYS LEFT. FROM A POTENTIAL EX-FRIEND IN ALUMNI. 
HEY ANNIE · ITS YOUR BIRTHDAY!! HAPPY 20TH ROOMIE · HERE'S TO A GREAT DAY (AND A BETTER NIGHT!) HAVE A GOOD ONE, Y'All. LOVE SHEEL. 
Hey ANN GRUSDISI How did you like 
your slave-for-the-day? Okay. do I didn't 
put this in yesterday ... better late than 
never and all those wonderful cliche 
sayings... HAPPY BIRTHDAY, ANN. 
Celebrate in moderation this 
weekend(hee hee) .. 
Nrtlce to all International Students; 
I.S.O party scheduled lor today at Lewis Hall Party Room has teen CAN­CELLED. A new date and a new loca­tion will be determined next week We are sorry lor the Inconvenience! 
KEVIN CONNEELY, HAPPY 21st !!! SIGNED, JANE AUSTIN 
Sophomore Class Ski Trip!!! March 2,3,4 $85 W/rental-$60 W/0 Sign-ups on Feb. 13 & 14 Sign-up 6·8 pm in LaFortune Don't miss out!!! 
in medias res is fine with me .. if it's in a '76 Chevy. 
George and NiCk, Welcoml) back lor DePaul. Have FUN... ..DEAN CHRISTY I need DePaul tix 8046 
Dave McGonigle Congrats to NOs most intellectual WARD 
FT. LAUDERDALE is still 34 days away but you can REACH THE BEACH TONITE at HOLY CROSS !rom 10-2 in the partyroom. 
Kary Schllte celebrates the big 21tonight and tomorrow. ~ you see this lightweight stumbling around in a daze thanks to his thoughtful roommates and friends, please return him to 237 Dillon. Happy Birthday. Baby! 
NOTICE TO ALL SHAKERS P.D.,Georgie,JoHo.Smeg. The weekend was fun But now that its done There'll be? in your eye PaybaCks are helL Pony and Smurf support the Equilization. BEN DO 
Don'tlorgetthattoday is ·'Kiss a BP GiM Day"! Have Jun. and turn your heart stick­ers and names in to Cathy David. 
GOOD LUCK TO SMC FENCERS I 
Anne McDonald: 1'1 yo11 3st year. may all your spins on the wheel of life come up to be $5000. All my love, Pat Sajak 
To Robert Lloyd Snyder-Have a very fulfilling 22nd! Be good or be goood at ~­don't get burned! Love the ""ever·tasty" giMs of 3rd South 
Anne McDonald is 21 today! Give her a call. (5178) & find out why they really call her ··hot lips". 
John Wackowski: Joe's not the only one with a secret sweetheart! 
Dear Rot:E:rt Lloyd-On the anniversaire of your 22nd year as a poet revolutionnaire chairman of the peoples front against sabriety. take heart to abide strictly to the dabber creed of total and absolute abstin­tion from all forms of commonly practiced social anthopological & legal behaviors & conventions & the complete rejection of any & all topsider 1nduced mentalities. Celebrate this day by: 1) partaking of your usual volume of beer than nomally woUd choke a horse. 2) cuddling up w~h a sot bod (human or otherwise) 3) testing the limrts of accoustical physics with a rendi­tion of an OMD that would stir even Father Sorin Long live the farmyard and connec· lion! Enjoy R1ck 
Hey McDonald· Cut the BUick 
To the boys of Dillon Hall Thanks fort he chair we've decided that it's the biggest thing you have. 
Look lor Anne McDonald tonite at Corby's on her 21st! & help give her 21---­-! (If you can't find her.try looking under the tables) 
Mike Hayes. \Iince Hod<ett. John Ver­furth, Marty Wall John, thanks for the free shot! VIDS. verfer & vermouth, hat heads, helicopters. daffys, tight jeans & a paper bag: rip they Hayes. red plaid tartan boxer shorts· what a tum on!. zip those pants Hayes. class1c movies. cerebral squeeze, & a spineless worm. Coordinated (yet borrowed) ski outfits, when did your parents get engaged? 380's on Top Notch, while lite fishing at nile, toto & polo, loading docks & burps, Alas or was it Da's, Vince: what a· Drag" when you try to pick up 3girls at once!, drinking games. 5short blasts, remember to stop for passing human trains, bodas schnappes, Guiness Book pizza recored, Keep it down to 2 or 3 
• cases right Vince! Let's try for25 hrs this time! 4 falls in 20ft. sometimes Y, & Mike plastic JUst doesn't sink! Do we have a date for next year guys! Call if you want to do ~ again sooner, that is if you can remember our names! 
VOTE DAN MCNAMARA STUDENT SENATOR DISTRICT3 

The Observer Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 14 
Because of good reputation 
Castaneda chose to fence at SMC 
By MARY BETH KERGER 
Sports Writer 
Two years ago Mary Ann Cas­taneda came to Saint Mary's to fence. She chose Saint Mary's because ofits good reputation in the fencing world. The Belles had won the pres­tigious Great Lakes Championship the year before. 
This reputation is a bit ironic be­cause Castaneda would be the team's first member with prior fen· cing experience. The other team members had never seen a fencing blade before coming to Saint Mary's. 
For those who don't know about the Saint Mary's fencing program, the team practices with the Notre Dame fencing teams in the ACC. This gives the Belles a unique posi­tion. They have the benefits of the coaching experience that only a school the size of Notre Dame can provide (Mike DeCicco has been coaching fencing at Notre Dame for 21 years), as well as the benefit that, being a small team, they can really work together. 
This concept of working together is what attracted Castaneda. 
What Castaneda found when she came was typical of the Saint Mary's team. There were a total of five people on the team, with the mini· mum for a women's fencing team being four. When she realized that 
no one had ever fenced before col­lege, she knew why they formed such a close-knit group. Saint Mary's competes against schools that offer fencing scholar· ships to American and European fen­cers. The competition originally was tough, and Saint Mary's was definite· ly an underdog. Cohesion and hard work are what the Saint Mary's fencing reputation 
was built on, not experience. To date, the Belles' accomplishments include five winning seasons in their 
seven year history, three invitations to national competitions, and one Great Lakes Championship win. 
Castaneda liked the challenge. Even though she had four years of prior fencing experience, she had a lot to learn, as she will attest. 
"After that first practice," says Castaneda, "I was really scared. Practices were not that intense in high school." 
But Castaneda fenced well at the 
beginning of that first season. She 
started out fourth on the team and 
quickly rose to the number two 
position. 
A third of the way through the season, Castaneda qualified for the Junior Olympics and left for Los An­geles on Feb. 13. She never returned for the rest of the season. 
After the competition that weekend, she went horseback riding 
and ha d a serious fall. She needed im­mediate brain surgery to remove a blood clot that almost cost her her life. The doctors said she would probably regain only 80 percent of her faculties. 
But the doctors were wrong. Cas­taneda was out ofthe hospital within two months. After a few more months of rest, she received a clean bill of health and began the slow process ofgetting back in shape. 
Last year she came back looking as good as when she left, although noticeably thinner. She was disap­pointed with her performance last season (a .420 win/loss record) but she never used her accident as an excuse. 
But this year Castaneda will not be disappointed. She has the drive and the ability to make this a great season. As captain, she'll be leading two second year fencers, Mary Frances Wilkin and Teresa Shilts, and the second Saint Mary's recruit with previous fencing experience, freshman MaryJean Sully. She is also in the process ofbringing up several novice fencers. 
This fencing team is a typical Saint Mary's team, and Castaneda would like to carry on the Saint Mary's tradition of making it the best it can be. 
NUL Standings 
In this years NHL playoff format. the topfourteams in each divtsion make the playoffs, regardless of over· all league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division 
w L T GF GA Pis. Buffalo 35 16 6 229 186 76 Boston 35 18 3 247 183 73 Quebec 29 20 6 253 194 64 Montreal 26 26 5 217 209 57 Hartford 18 28 8 188 225 44 
Patrick Division 
N.Y. 
Rangers 32 18 7 229 213 71 

N.Y. 
Islanders 34 20 2 246 198 70 Philadelphia 29 16 9 236 192 67 Washington 31 21 4 214 172 66 Pittsburgh 11 39 5 174 252 27 New Jersey 11 40 5 154 237 27 


CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smyth& Dvlslon 
w L T GF GA Pis 
Edmonton 39 12 5 319 228 83 
Calgary 22 21 11 201 220 55 
Winnipeg 20 25 9 238 260 49 
Vancouver 21 31 6 223 238 48 
Los Angeles 17 27 11 223 251 45 
Norris Dfvlalon 
Minnesota 29 21 5 252 242 63 
St. Louis 22 29 5 204 226 49 
Chicago 21 30 6 195 216 48 
Detroit 19 31 6 204 244 44 
Toronto 19 31 6 215 275 44 
Yelllerday's Results Toronto 6, Boston 3 Buffalo B. New Jersey 5 Vancouver 7, Montreal6 Philadelphia 4, Edmonton 3 Detroit 9, Pittsburgh 3 
N.Y. Rangers 4, Minnesota 4 tie 

Jinx 
continuedfrom page 20 
Meanwhile, John Battle, who could be the best pure shooting guard in the East (St. John's' Chris Mullin included), was scorching the nets for 23 points, 13 in the second half while his backcourt counter· p .art, Brian Ellerbe, was shadow· dancing with Sluby. For Notre Dame, it was a total breakdown against another inferior team, a loss which may come hack to haunt the Irish come tournament selection time. 
But forgive Phelps if he has more pressing matters on his mind this morning. Like facing No. 2 DePaul tomorrow without his two starting forwards. 
Tim Kempton was taken to New York's Roosevelt Hospital after the game with a possible stress fracture of his leg, one which will probably sideline him for the rest of the year. 
"He's in a lot of pain," said Phelps. "He's getting x-rays right now, hut if 

VIDEO DISC PLAYER 1'1Ja61 MOVIE/OVERNIGHT 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS ~" AVAILABLE PLUS 1?:2:---, 'Jill"" 100's OF MOVIES ':..:z::;f 
it's a stress fracture, he's done for the season." 
Meanwhile, the bursitis in Jim Dolan's toe has reappeared, and one day of rest may not be enough for it to heal in timme for DePaul. "He'll be sore Friday," Phelps said. "I don't know ifhe'll be able to go Saturday." 
So, once again, Notre Dame leaves here in a state of shock and with its post-season hopes up in the air. The Irish are now I 5-7 and face a must­win situation against the Blue Demons tomorrow -mth 18 points and 14 rebounds possibly missing from the lineup. 
But as long as that game is played 
Racquetball pairings 
All matches must be played and reported to the NVA office by Friday, February 17. The NVA en· courages all matches to be played and reported at the earliest convemence. 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES 
Ludtke· Wagner (6871) v. Lane·Hickey (1023) H1gg1ns-Suner (1873) v. Grotean-Aadimaker (1248) Bathon-Hillerman (8313) v. Boyle-Clement (3210) Rehder· Rogers (8022) v. James-Connally (1530) Smith· Villareal (1628) v. Coyle-Blanton (6380) Dugan-Hudson (1620) v. Boggio-Ryan (8459) 
Must have ND/SMC 10 
South Bend North 51400 U.S. 31 N. Clocktower Square 277·8872 
at Notre Dame -or Puerto Rico, or Bangladesh, anywhere but East Rut­herford, N.J. -Digger Phelps will have no complaints. 
IRISH ITEMS -Attendance was announced as 9,143, which hardly made a dent in this 21 ,000-seat palace .... Notre Dame shot 55 per­cent from the floor, while Rutgers countered with 54 percent .... In a scheduling quirk, the Irish return to the metro NewYork City area on the · 22nd of February as they play in Madison Square Garden for the first time in four years. They will face Manhattan. 
Gels·Abd Allah (1480) v. Kimmei-Crouch (1694) Gardner-Bono (8646) v. Magri-Zimmer (1059) Golub-Pravezek (8456) v. Barenton-Chludzinski (3137) Wes1hoven-Graf (3610) v. Casey-Nichols (8833) Dice:Kress (8538) v. Sirriann-Hardek (1371) 
['Cclrbyrsl 

~~···· 
Friday Night Specials 
3·8 PM Mixed drinks 2 for 1 8·3 AM Margaritas $1.00 
Outdoor Ice Skating at Stepan Courts 

Fri., Feb. 10 9-12pm 
FREE: BYO Skates FREE: Hot choc, cookies 
DJ 
,T
I~ \ ~ ~ 
' I ~. 
I 
i!I I I 
I 
\ 

Black Cultural Arts Festival 
"Living Memories," a One-Act play by N.D. Senior Sandra Hodge will be presented on Saturday, February 12, at 8:00PM. Admission is FREE and the event will take place at the Annenberg Auditorium Practice at ACC 

Saint Mary's fencers now 3-6 
Afteravenging their only loss oftheyear by beating Lake Forest on Wednesday, the Notre Dame hockey team travels to Penn State for a weekend series with 
By KATHY MURPHY 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's fencing team would not be seen practicing in An­gela Athletic Facility. The Belles practice in the ACC with the Notre Dame fencing team. 
This arrangement gives the Saint Mary's fencers the benefit of good coachingand the excellent facilities. 
This year the Belles are coached by Marc Dejong, a former all­American fencer at Notre Dame, who is now attending graduate school there. 
"This is a very young team," com­mented Dejong. "Most of the girls have had very little or no previous fencing experience before entering college." 
The Observer/Paul Clfarelll 
the Nittany Lions. Ed Domansky previews the two games in his story on page 17. 

The team, which now stands at 3­6, is a member ofthe National Inter­collegiate Women's Fencing Association. The NIWFA consists of about 30 private schools, many of which come from the East. 
The Belles are improving with each meet. After dropping their first six contests, the team has come back to win its last three meets. The Belles defeated North Carolina State by a 9-7 mark, and then went on to beat Tri-State University and Wisconsin-Parkside by identicall0­6 scores. 
"The girls are on a hot streak now with three wins in a row," says DeJong. "Each ofthem has improved greatly since the first bouts of the season." 
Junior captain Mary Ann Cas­taneda leads the Belles this year with a personal record of I 7-1 7. She is the team's first member with prior fen­cing experience. 
The Belles hope to improve their record in this weekend's round­robin tournament at the ACC tomor­row. They will face strong competition from Ohio State Uni­versity and Wayne State University. 
"I'm looking forward to this weekend's competition!," says Dejong. "The girls have been con­tinuously improving and therefore I'm very enthusiastic." 
Sully 
continuedfrom page 20 
coaching, excellent depth, and, most importantly, a winning attitude have also kept the Irish at a consis­tent level. 
This brings us back to tomorrow's crucial meeting with Wayne State. The battle will probably produce the 1984 NCAA champion, but its importance will be overshadowed by the DePaul basketball game. 
It's just as well. The basketball team needs fan support and media support if it hopes to come close to the top teams in the country. The fencing team has proven that it will win no matter what. There are no unpleasant surprises. The Irish don't lose much, especially to inferior teams. Too bad we can't say the same abollt some other teams on 
campus. 
Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 15 

Hockey medal hopes snuffed by Czech team 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia-Czecho­
slovakia snuffed out U.S. hopes for 
another ice hockey miracle by 
defeating the Americans, 4-1, yester­
day, a day in which a world record 
was set in speed skating and the first 
gold medals were handed out at the 
Winter Olympics. 
Bad weather on Mount Bjelasnica meant Bill johnson ofCalifornia had to wait at least another day for his attempt at a gold medal in the downhill. Heavy winds and blowing snow forced postponement of the men's event until today. 
And in a different hockey wrinkle, Soviet star goalie Vladislav Tretiak, playing in his fourth Olympics, received a contract offer from the Montreal Canadiens. 
It was not known how close Tretiak was to signing, ifclose at all, but it would be a feat of major proportions if a Soviet star athlete was given permission to play in the West. 
The U.S. hockey team, for all in­tents and purposes, finished its oifmpic season with its loss to the bigger, stronger, second-seeded Czechoslovakian team. 
The lights went out in the arena with 7:37 remaining in the first period just after the Czechoslovaks scored their first goal. About two minutes after they came hack on, the United States tied the score on a goal by Mark Kumpel. 
But the flickering flame of a second consecutive Olympic gold medal went out for good on the Americans about three minutes later when Victor Lukatch of Czechoslo­vakia scored what proved to be the winning goal on a power play. 
Canada beat the lhited States 4-2 in their opener on Tuesday, and ­with both of their conquerors now 2-0 -it is all but impossible for the Americans to make the medal round. 
If the early demise of U.S. hockey medal hopes was a shock, it came as no surprise that the first speed­skating gold went to Karin Enke, whose first love was figure skating before she injured an arm in 1977 and switched to speed skating. 
Enke, of East Germany, won the women's 1,500-meter event in a world-record time of 2 minutes, 
3.42 seconds. The 22-year-old stu­dent has a fine chance to win three gold medals, and said after winning her first that she may even try for four by entering the 3,000-meter. 
Eric Heiden of the lhited States swept all five of the men's speed­skating events in 1980, an unprece­dented feat. The most gold medals ever for a woman in a single Winter Games is four, by Russian speed skater Lydia Skoblikova in 1964. 
Winning the 10-kilometer gold medal in women's cross-country brought tears to the eyes and a smile to the face ofMarja-Liisa Hamalainen ofFinland. 
"I worked for many years on this," said Hamalainen, so overcome with emotion from the victory that she could only reply when asked how she felt, "It is hard for me to say." 
Later, they were the first to have gold medals, hanging from red rib­bons, placed around their necks in outdoor cermonies at Skenderjia, as snow fell lazily and laced the stage. 
American speed-skater Mary Doc­ter ofMadison, Wis., finished 14th in 2:12.14, while Janet Goldman of Glenview, Ill, was 17th in 2:12.94 and Nancy Swider of Park Ridge, III., was 18th in 2:13.74. 
In the cross-country, the top U.S. finisher was judy Rabinowitz­Endestad, of Fairbanks, Alaska, 27th with a time of34:35.1. 
Victor Nechaev, a lesser-ranked Soviet hockey player, played briefly for the IDs Angeles Kings and finished out the season in the minor leagues. And Tretiak, often con­sidered the world's premier goalie, may soon join him. 
jacques Olivier, Canada's Minister ofFitness in Amateur Sports, said jer­ry Grundman, a representative of the National Hockey League team, had given the contract to Marat Gramov, chairman of the Soviet Sports Committee. 
Olivier said Gramov told him he had delivered the contract to the 31­year-old Tretiak. 
"If Mr. Gramov transmitted the contract to Mr. Tretiak," Olivier said, "it means he must have taken a look at it. We assured Mr. Gramov we don't want to interfere with the internal policesofthe Soviet Union." 
Serge Savard, general manager of the Canadiens, said it was up to the 
Soviets  to  say  yes  or  no  to  the  
proposal,  but that  no  details  had  
been discussed.  

In the first of four women's luge runs, heavily favored Steffi Martin of East Germany took first place ahead oftwo other East Germans. 
Martin's time was 41.63 seconds followed Bettina Schmidt at 41.66 and Ue Weiss at 41.90. American Bonny Warner ofMount Baldy, Calif, was eighth in 42.63. 
Italians finished in two of the top three spots after the first of four men's luge runs. Ernst Haspinger led with 46.157, followed by Torsten Guerlitzer of East Germany in 
46. 177 and Paul Hildgartner of Italy in 46.182. Frank Masley of Newark, Del., who carried the flag for the US. contingent in the opening ceremonies, was 15th in 46.890. 
In hockey, Canada, the Soviet Uni­on, West Germany, and Finland won their second games. 
Canada defeated Austria, 8-1, West Germany beat Poland, 8-5, the Soviet Union easily handled Italy, 5­1, and Finland whipped Norway, 16­2. 
Scott Hamilton, the leading American contender for a gold medal in men's figure skating, dropped a surprise yesterday when he announced that he may not turn pro after the Olympics but continue as an amateur for two more years. 
"I'm a good amateur. I'm not sure I'd be a good professional," Hamil­ton said. "I will definitely go to Ot­tawa (for the 1984 world championships)." 
"I'm considering staying in skating two more years. It would be like giving something back to the sport." 


Made ln Hollywood, USA 
L Presents THE ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTER EXHIBIT AND SALE 
Hundreds otoriginal 'Tlovle ;:>osfers and memorabilia from the silent days to the present. 
WHEN: Wed. -Fri. 9AM-6PM 
WHERE. LaFortune C<:!nter, •liar 
DON'T MISS Ill 
1rn:1ua1ng SUCfll'llll a• 
Qone With TM '41nd 
Flolhdanee 

ome.t and a aenttemon 
l'tnk floyd'I The Wall And Hunchedl Morell 
Dietrich Industries Inc. 
will conduct an informal orientation on Monday, February 13 from 7:30p.m. to 9:00p.m. in room 104 O'Shaughnessy. 
Attendance is recommended .>-;.l for those students being interviewed on February 14. 


An out of print book you cannot locate Try our search service! nationally circulated initial cost: $.75 no obligation 500Jo success rate eight weeksJ 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
1027 E. Wayne noon-6, Toes .-Sun 232-8444 

0 
~• 
.. ~ . 
~ ·.~:
I~ 
: ,. '' _l .
' .. ,~~~, 

~ 
~\ 
<-?···~:wl 
-
~~ 
~~
~~ 
,.,.
~~-~~ 
j~~l 
-~t--· 
•ll ~ 
r~r.J#I
~ 

Atart 2800 and 5200, lntaiiMalon ~ and Colec:oVIalon Compatible. ~,
~

.!\low! Atarl and Commodore Computer Gamea In moll 1tore1. (All gamea not manufactured In all lormata.) 
SPECIAL SELECTION ===~-n5 ! ii IF -Many titles available!===---j 
_.._._.. 
----_ --­

-----.-.----~ 
---==-­
-~ 

~,~~=~;~:
LAST!
Ell. 

(Atarl 2600 Compatible) 
RAN DURAN 
And The Ragged Tiger 
"''"J/f
With Mig.
Rebate 
~~~'¥'11~~ 
SIDE KICK 
Holds 10 cassettes or headphones, or recorder, or pocket radio. Use it as waist or 
li.ii~ 
JUDAS PRIEST 
DEFENDERS OF THE FAITH 
DAN FOGELBERG 
WINDOWS AND WALLS 
including: The Language Of Love/Believe In Me Let Her Go/Gone Too Far Sweet Magnolia (And The 
Salesman) 


[JBASF 
Video Tape 
T 120 & L 750 
VHS Beta 
Ask About 
BUJ10 GBI 

·~1.~~-lhe~BASF
,.,j • '•-~~r 1FREE ~~':ss· SAVE $800 
Head Cleaner VHS or Beta Format 
11.91. 

3 Easy-To-Load Cartridges! 

John Lennon Yoko Ono Milk and Honey 
Choose from: The Pretenders, Judas Priest, Dan Fogelberg, John Lennon, Alabama, Duran Duran, and Lionel Richie.
+Givethel!iftol mmk. 
LIONEL RICHIE 
CAN'T SLOW DOWN 

Also Includes: John Cougar, "Uh-Huh;" Del Leppard, "Pyromania;" DeBarge, "In A Special Way;" Dazz Band, "Joy Stick;" .38 Special, "Tour De Force;" Police, "Synchronicity;" Culture Club, "Colour By Numbers;" Billy Idol, "Rebel Yell;" Michael Jackson, "Thriller;" Ozzy Osbourne, "Bark at the Moon;" Quiet Riot, "Metal Health;" Romantics, "In Heat;" Van Halen, "1984;" Motley Crue, "Shout at 
the Devil;" Midnight Star, "No Parking On The Dance Floor;" ZZ Top, "Eliminator" 
CAMElOTfJMUSic···~;.~·~:.., 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
272·4186

IS MUSIC AND MOREl 
The Observer Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 17 

The Observec/Carol Gales 

joe Howard and his Irish teammates were outrebounded in the second half by Rutgers last night, and that was the difference as Notre Dame fell, 61-59, in East Rutherford, Nj. Chris Needles details thegame on page 20 whilejeffBlumbpreviews tomorrow's meeting with DePaul on the sa.me page. ­
After Lake Forest win 
Hockey team visits Penn State 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
JOHNSTOWN, Pa. -After a 6-4 victory over Lake Forest on Wednes­day at the ACC, which enabled the Notre Dame hockey team to reach the 20-win mark, the Irish return to the road this weekend, where they will be the guests of the Penn State Nittany lions. 
Now holding an impressive 20-1­0 record, Notre Dame enters the non-conference weekend series riding a five-game winning streak. 
The games will be played tonight and tomorrow at the War Memorial Arena here in Johnstown. The facility is somewhat of a neutral site since the Penn State campus, located in State College, Pa., is roughly a one 
hour drive away. 
The Lions bring a 17-11 mark into 
the series. Gaining specific informa­tion about them is difficult because they, like Notre Dame, are a club team. 
"We're not sure just how good they are," said Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "We keep getting conflicting reports. But we are anxious to play them." 
From the information that was available, the Lions have split a series with Notre Dame's Central States Collegiate Hockey League opponent Alabama-Huntsville. Alabama, like Notre Dame, is undefeated in CSCHL play. Penn State also has beaten the University of Arizona, the Naval Academy, and Canton ATC, a highly regarded club from upstate New York. 
Adam Parsons and Bob Thebeau have been the two hot players in the Notre Dame offense over the last three games. Parsons has scored a hat trick in two consecutive outings, as well as adding another goal and five assists. 

Thebeat• scored a goal and had three assists in each game ofthe Mar­quette series. He then knocked home two ofthe six Irish goals Wed­nesday against Lake Forest. 
Co-captain and leading scorer Brent Chapman has not been tur­ning on the red light as much lately, scoring just three goals. But over the same three games, he has dished out eight assists. Four of those assists came in last Saturday's 11-2 routing ofMarquette. 
"We've been told that they're doing a lot of promotion for the games," said Thebeau. "They're supposed to have a good team, so we're pretty pumped to play them. It should be a good weekend." 
f

Women ace 1 anova 
The games this weekend will be the first ever meeting between the two schools in hockey competion. 
"Penn State is a fine institution," says Smith. "There is a good rivalry between the schools, so it should make for an interesting series." 
AI Haverkamp will get the starting assignment in the Notre Dame goal tonight. He has a 5-0-0 record and a 
3.00 goals against average. 
Marc Guay is listed as the prob­able starter on Saturday. He is 3-0-0 and owns a 2.75 goals against. 
Just six games remain on the 1983-84 schedule, and with the Irish hoping to complete all six without another loss, aggressive, exciting hockey should be in store over the next three weeks. 
v•11 

When the Notre Dame women's basketball team faces the Villanova Wildcats tomorrow night at 7:30 in the ACC, it will be a matchup of two teams whose seasons have headed in opposite directions. While the Irish have dropped to 8-12 on the season after finishing last year at 20-7, the Wildcats of Harry Perretta have im­proved last year's 14-1 5 record to 15-5 this year. 
Four blue-chip freshman recruits have been most responsible for the resurgence of Villanova. The bluest ofthe blue-chips is 6-0 forward Shel­ly Pennefather. Pennefather was one of the most highly-recruited high school players in the country last year, and she has lived up to all of Perretta's expectations. With an average of 20 points a _game, she is probably the highest scoring fresh­man in the nation. 
However, a large chunk of the of­fensive production comes from Pen­nefather and senior guard Nancy Bernhardt, who adds more than 21 points a game to go along with Pen­nefather's high output. Bernhardt scored 20 points in last season's 72­68loss to Notre Dame, and will keep the Irish from sagging on Pennefat­her. 
The Irish, on the other hand, are getting most of their offense from junior guard Laura Dougherty and junior center Mary Beth Schueth. Those two players are going to need a lot more help than they have been receiving of late if Mary DiStanislao is going to get her team back into a groove. 

ALWAYS SPRING SUNNY BREAK '84 
®.<fort 1J a~crbale 1 last®. 



IRISH TO INVADE FORT LAUDERDALE 
SPRING BREAK CAMPS SET UP AT TWO MAJOR HOTELS 
SheratonYankee SheratonYankee Trader 

Beach entertainment galore ... right outside your door. Home of PENRODS, the hottest spot on the beach. 
(Mike and Dean of the Beach Boys-Spring, 83) 
wave after wave of students descend on Fort Lauderdale . . • but the smartest check In at the two great Sheretons, where the best doesn't cost more. 

RECRUITS SIGNING UP DAILY BY CALLING (toll-free): 
1·800·325·3535 


The Observer Friday, February 10, 1984-page 18 
Demons 
continuedfrom page 10 
Embry is another tough situation (to 
guard against)." 

DePaul will at times go with three 
guards. Those three, Tony Jackson, 
Jerry McMillan, and Kenny Patter­
son, collectively average 27.2 points 
agaml·. 

Jackson is a 6-'; sophomore, who 
as a freshman scored 272 points, the 
most ever by a DePaul freshman. 
McMillan is a 6-4 senior co-captain 
who shoots well from outside. Pat­terson, of course, is the player who hit a 16-foot jumper at the buzzer last Feb. 26 in the Rosemont Horizon to give the Demons a 5';-';3 win over the Irish. 
"McMillan has great success 
against zones with his outside shoot­
ing," evaluates Phelps, "and Patter­
son has always been 'Mr. Clutch' for 
them. He hits the shot against St. John's (last Saturday in overtime to give DePaul a ';9-57 win) and he hits the shot against us last year." 
Off the bench for DePaul is fresh­
man sensation Dallas Comegys, a 
player thought to he the best high 
schooler out of Philadt:lphia since 
Gene Banks. Coml·gys (pronounced 
COMMA-gcez) WdS a consensus 
high school all-American last year as 
a senior while averaging 21.6 points 
and I I.'; rebounds. 

This yt·ar, usually as the Demons' 
sixth man, Comegys is the team's 
third leading scorer with a 9.4 point 
average. In addition, Comegys nets 
';, 5 rebounds a game and is an excel­
lent shot blocker. 

"The way G>megys has come off the bt·m:h for them this year when they didn't really know how good he was going to be as a freshman," says Phelps, "is obviously a big plus for DePaul." 
Others coming offDePaul's bench arc 6-11 Lemone Lampley, freshman Lawrence West, and senior Raymond McCoy. 
Yet, tomorrow's game will in­volve more than just personnel. Emotion and state of mind will play heavily into the final result. 
DePaul, ofcourse, is coming off its first loss of the season and will be looking to get back on the winning track. Meyer feels that the loss will 
likely he beneficial to the Demons in 
the long run. 
"The loss doesn't mean much at 
this point," says the retiring Del'-dul 
coach. "Overall, it's probably a good 
thing. It kinds of wakes them up a 
little and makes them work that 
much harder in practice. They're 
hungry again." 
Notre Dame, similarly, should be 
hungry. The Irish would really like 
to beat another highly ranked team 
on national television, as they did 
Maryland, since the pay offcould be 
an NCAA tournament bid. This is be­
cause such a win would tend to stick 
in the mind ofthe selection commit­
tee come March I I. 
The Irish, though, have the disad­
vantage of having played just last 
night, while the Demons haven't 
been in action since Tuesday. 
Fatigue won't enter into the game, 
however, at least according to 
Phelps. 
"Saturday's game will be a game of 
adrenalin," says the Irish coach. 
"You don't worry about sleep. The 
thing that scares me is how they just 
walked into Pauley Pavillion and 
blew out UCLA, so they're capable of 
that. 
"That's something we can't let 
happen. If it goes down to the last 
minute, that's when Notre Dame is 
at its best. We've just got to get it to 
the last minute and make it happen." 
Meyer knows the Irish will do 
many things to try and stay close, 
one of them being keeping DePaul 
out ofits running game. 
"Notre Dame will try to slow it down and play a half-court game," says Meyer. "We don't want to do that." 
While this game will be special for everyone involved, it will be quite a battle, which is a thought echoed by both coaches. 
"It will be very sentimental for me," says Meyer. 'Til enter the game with mixed emotions. It'll be won­derful down there until the whistle blows, then it'll be a war, then after­ward it'll be wonderful again." 
Phelps perhaps sums up the character of tomorrow's game best, saying, "Come game time it'll be a war, but after the game I'll hug him ami give him a kiss." 


Everything But the Gondola Southern Italy Is Close As Parisi's Italian Restaurant Features Their Favorite Dishes To the Notre Dame Students and Faculty 
~Ravioli  ~Manicotti  
1!1 Pasta  1*1 Veal Parmiagiana  
~  Fettuccine  ~  Chicken Cacciatore  

Cocktail-Beer-Wine 
and of course 
Don't Miss Our Own Original "PIZZA" Open for Lunch and Dinner 
Tuesday-Saturday 
~ Carry Out Available Iii North of Edison on Rt. 23 
We want to make your Valentine's Day a memorable one for you &-yours at Parisi's Make your res. now: 277-0578 



Black Cultural Arts Festival 
Mary Frances Berry, the Civil Rights Commissioner will be speaking on the topic of "Black Rights Today." The event will take place on February 12, at 7:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 



00000000000000000000000 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION o 
0 
presents 

COMPU'I;ERS: ~ A STEP BY STEP APPROACH 
TO THE PURCHASE DECISION 
SPEAKER: Dr. Terry Lukas of General Micro, South Bend, Indiana 
Open to all members and potential members of the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
0 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1984 0 MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 0 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 7-9 p.m. 
Seating on a first-come, first-served basis. Call Larry at 239-6611 if you have questions. 
~NOTRE DAME CRIDff UNION 


0 00000000000000000000000 
SCHOLASTIC is acceptin applications for the position of Edltqr-ln· Chief. Call Jim Genther at 239-7569 for details. 
Senior Class VALENTINE'S DAY COCKTAIL DANCE 


Thursday, february 16 <:1 monogram room 9-2 (::) '1:' rtJ Tickets at the door $~.00 f!l •.. t:7 C"1... f()<:!)•r') ,.... 

~---------------------------------------------------------­
Campus . 
•4 
p.m. -Spanish Club Meeting, LaFortune 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting ofthe Spiritual Rock Prayer



T0 day_______ ij. 
F_n_·d-ay_._F_eb_r_u_ary_l_o_._1_98_4__p_a_g_e_l....j9 Group, Library Auditorium 
•7, 9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "48 Hours," Engineer­

Bloom County 


1Ht5 HERf/f:J

VIR&/1-POOl7/N5KI­
OWNER,~, 
tJfh INSTA!UR ANP PMPON !' HAN17'7MAN FOR 
\~PH~ 
CO./
\ f 


Mellish 

YES. AS A CONCE!fNED 80ARO NfNBf~, I H14ST ARGUf THAT IT IS IMHOKill Fdll A t~THOLIC /INtrEIWT"Y SUcll As NOTH.E f)~M£ Ta Sll6SIII/lE TH~ NAflllFACTU~l 
"\f"'" """"i 



Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side 
~UPT"OWN eiRL, :5HE'::> 6E.TTIN6 TIRE.D a' t"£.R 1"\IOH CL..A'5' TOY, ... " 
A few of us skeptics would like this woman's name. 

ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1

Berke Breathed 
/..AHI< AH OWN MAH 
YOU PICKVP 
OWH rr.? 71«KJ( / 
\ r 

Dave & Dave 
tain John D. Rohrobough, 11 7 O'Shag "The Arms 

-~ 
Race: Diversion of Resources," Peter Walshe, 118 


O'Shag, 
•1 
p.m. -"Arms Control: Stabilizing the Strategic Relation, Alan. Dowty, 116 O'Shag, "Euromissile Deployment," 117 O'Shag "Insights on Russian Culture," Dr. Leon Twarog, 118 O'Shag, 

•2 
p.m. -"Targeting: Counterforce or Counter· city?" King Pfieffer, 116 O'Shag, "What About the Russians?" Sponsored by George Brinkley, 117 O'Shag "The Freeze: Where to Next?" Roger Voelker, 118 O'Shag, "MoraVPolitical Con­science," Sponsored by Ann~ Clark, 119 O'Shag 

•1 
p.m. -SMC Basketball, SMC vs. Marian Col­lege, Angela Athlet;~ Facility 

•2 
p.m. Swimming, ND Men vs St.



Gary Larson 
Bonaventure, Rockne Pool 
•8 
p.m. -Play, "Living Memories," Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Festival, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m.-Concert, SMC Choir, Wabash College, and Men's Glee Club, Little Theatre 

Sunday, Feb 12 

•I 
p.m. -Italian Mass, Sorin Hall Chapel 

•2 
p.m. -Film, "Andrei Rublev," Annenberg Auditorium, $1 

•3 
p.m. -Ground Zero Game, Firebreaks, Library Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Three Minutes to Midnight Debate, Govenor John Gilligan and Bernard Nor­ling, Center for Social Concerns 

•8 
p.m. -Graduate Recital, Janet Kitts, Annen· berg Auditoriun1' 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Ms Mary Frances Berry, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Festival, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "La Nuit de Varennes," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, SMC Choir, Moreau Hall Little Theatre 

•9 
p.m. -Punk Reggae Party, Chautauqua, Sponsored by Ground Zero, S I 


Saturday, Feb 11 Ground Zero Lectures, 
•10 
a.m. -"Nukes: Short and Long-term Effects," William McGlinn, 116 O'Shag "The Strategic Balance: U.S. vs U.S.S.R." ColonelJohn D Miles, 117 O'Shag, "Nuclear Deterrence: Alternative Ap­proaches," James Sterba, 118 O'Shag, 

•II 
a.m. -"Arms Control: The Preferred AI· ternatives," Captain William McLean, 116 O'Shag, "The Navy's Role in the Nuclear Deterrent," Cap­




The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1 Brilliant fish 6 "-and the 
Man" 10 Maple genus 14 N. Oak. 
city 15 Nonclorical 16 Fr.com· 
poser 17 Dress shape 18 Cartoon 
"idea" 20 Memory 21 Deity 22 Track 
events 

23 Sign on Junior's door? 
25 Fr. river 26 Parched 27 Vendition 28 Cheer 31 Sea mammal 34 Trousers 41 Bagel and­44 Curse 46 Cigarand 
35 Worldwide  56 Weaver's  11 Seal by  
grp.  bobbins  fire  
36 Enlarge  57 Paddy plant  12 Kay fol·  
37 Clumsy one  58 Egyptian  lowers  
38 Victim in 1917  lizard 59 High nest  13 Steal  
39 Old auto  60 Signs  19 Cylindrical  
40 Gaucho rope  61 Torso  muscle  
41 Wind-blown  62 Kilmer poem  21 "-Fawkes  
loam  Day"  
42 Roman id  DOWN  24 Hockey  
follower  1 Bradley  great  
43 Poker money  and Sharif  25 Cape  
44 Brick  2 Helmsman  27 Fry  
conveyor  3 Bryant or  29 Oh,woe!  
45 Betcau- Loos  30 -d'oeuvres  
tiously  4 Variety of  31 Grim Grimm  
melon  character  
47 Jumping  5 Jeanneor  32-chic  
bean's  Marie: abbr.  33 Cafe  
nationality  6 Mete  giveaway  
51 Of the eye  7 Foray  34 Dish  
52 SIOPIJY  8 Russ.jet  37 "Royal"  
53 Gambling  9 Fake roman·  crustacean  
game  ticism  38 Morse or  
54 Newspaper feaJure  10 Veep Barkley  zip worker 40 AM orFM  

major ends 
47 Homeof anoa and proa 
48 Writer John Le­49 Palmerof 
golf 50 Snouts 51 Norse god 52 "Shane" 
star 54 Silkworm 55 Altar words 56 Touch 
Thursday's Solution 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2110/84 All Rights Reserved 
LID LIOC
l Ll 
Produced by Lawrence Gordon, Joel Silver Directed by Walter Hill
I l '' ~'· 

starring: Nick Nolte, Eddie Murphy, Annette O'Toole, James Remar, Sonny Landham, The Busboys 
TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT 
$1.50 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 Eng. Aud. 

Sports 
Friday, February 10, 1984 -page 20 

Second-half Rutgers rally gives Notre Dame another costly loss 
8y CHRIS NEEDLES February 18, 1982 -John pounds, and 6-6, 195 pounds, Obsen,er.~pectal Writer Paxson has his worst game as a col­respectively -perfect fall guys for legian (six points, four ofthem in the Notre Dame's half-court, bang-it­
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -For final minute) as the Irish lose to inside offense. True to form, the 364 days a year, the Brendan Byrne Seton Hall, the Big East doormat, 71-Irish used a I9-7 rebounding edge to Meadowlands Arena really is a nice 58. jump to a 32-24 halftime advantage place to visit. A great place to take February 10, 1983 -Notre behind Tom Sluhy's i 5 points, and the family. It's everything you al­Dame trails throughout and loses to Tim Kempton's 12 points and eight ways wanted in a baskethall arena -Fordham, 75-69, effectively knock· rebounds. easy access, lots ofparking ... ing the Irish out of NCAA Tourna­So what happened in the second 
ment contention. After the game, half? 

But for one night each year ­the team flys to Raleigh, N.C. -in "We didn't do a good joh on the usually the same night Notre Dame 
the middle of the worst blizzard on boards," said a perturbed Phelps in a makes its annual visit -it becomes a 
the East Coast in this centu . very brief post-game press con­veritable chamber of horrors. In the 

ference. "That was the difference,

last two seasons, the Irish have 
nothing else." playt·d arguably their worst basket­No argument here. The Scarlet
DePaul

hall at this suburban mecca: an ig­
Knights, malnourished as they were,

nominious thirteen·point loss to 
grabbed I2 offensive rebounds en 

Seton Hall in 19H2, and an equally 
route to a 20-H second-half edge on
Pep Rally 

had six-pointer to Fordham last year. 
the boards. All of this against a team which entered the game ranked

Sure t·nough. thi~ place rt·ared its fourth in the nation in rebounding
ugly ht·ad last night as Notre Dame 
cancelled 
margin, averaging nearly nine more

lost to Rutgt·rs, 61-';9, on Chris Rem­rebounds per game than its op­
ley's 22-foot homh with two Somehow. one had the feeling I<I3t ponents.
seconds ldt. It was the Scarlet night that the string of had luck 
But for Rutgers' coach Tom

Knights' t1rst lead in the game since would continue. Notre Dame 
Young, the difference was defense.

they lt·d 6-'; 2:.H into the game, and arrived here Wednesday night; its 
Namely, a box-and-one that held

cappt·d a gutsy second-half pcrfor­uniforms and warm-ups, however, 
Sluby scoreless in the second half.

mann· that saw the physically­didn't show up until a few hours "We waited until the second half
weaker Knights outrehound Notre 
before game time, having been lost to put that defense in," Young said,Damt·, 20-H. 

somewhere in the maze that is New "because we didn't want to give it 

Although Irish coach Digger York's LaGuardia Airport. away and give Notre Dame the Phelps discountnl the presence ofa But, if the Irish ever were going to chance to adjust to it at halftime. jinx against his team, you really have break their Meadowlands jinx, Rut­You can't blame Sluby. A box-and­
to wonder. Just how had has the gers seemed to be the pt·rfect vic­me takes him out ofthe offense, but Byrne Art·na treatt·d Notre Dame tim. Its stick-figure front line of his teammates didn't adjust." over the years? Consider the follow­Remley, Aundra Bell, and Steve Per­
see JINX, page 14

ing: ry, reads 6-9, 200 pounds, 6-9, 185 
Should be emotional 
Irish play host to No.2 DePaul 
ByJEFF BLUMB • And Meyer has done a lot. He's Embry, the strongest player on Assislant.~ports Editor presently the winningest coach the DePaul squad, also has the best among active coaches with 7I4 vic­field goal percentage on the team. 
Any rational betlor would put his tories, and fifth on the list for most He averages 5.5 points and '5.4 money on second-ranked DePaul career wins by a Division I coach. rebounds. tomorrow when the Blue Demons This year's DePaul team is one of "Embry's the guy that's the bull invade the ACC ( 4 p.m.. CBS-TV) to Meyer's best, if not his most closely for them on the boards and makes After a heartbreaking 61-59 loss to Rutgers last night, the Notre play the unranked Irish. Statistically knit. other things happen," says Phelps. Dame basketball team .now must turn its sights to second ranked speaking, DePaul has the upper "This is the closest team I've ever "That combination of Holmes and DePaul. For more on Blue Demon forward Kevin Holmes and his hand. But, when a game is as full of worked with," says Meyer. "The see DEMONS, page 18 teammates, as well as a recap oflast night's loss, see the two related emotion as tomorrow's will be, just players are very close to one another stories on this page. about anything can happen -as it and very dose to me. They really en­has before. joy working with one another." 
ft.'bruary 27, 1980... DePaul "There is no selfishness on the 
ND's most successful program 
comes to the ACC with a 25-0 team," Phelps says. "Ray does not record and holding the nation's have any ego problems. They're not number-one ranking. DePaul leaves public if there are. They are really Probably one of the oldest sports trivia questions atthe ACC with a 25-1 record after fal­conscious of what they can be right 
Notre Dame is, "What is the winningest team on
ling to Notre Dame, 76-74, in two now." 
campus?"

overtimes. Although it may rank among People who are very familiar with the entire athletic 
Mike suII ivan

That game, likely one of the big­DePaul's best teams, this year's 
department know the answer right away -it's Mike
gest upsets in the history of modern squad is not the prototypical DePaul DeCicco's fencing squad -but there are probably Sports Editorcollege basketball, would have been team. 
mali' who read the sports pages that didn't know the ;jjjjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~=-====~
on the mind of probably every per­"This is an unusual team at answer.
son in the ACC tomorrow ha<! the DePaul," Meyer says. "There are no The reason is quite simple. Fencing is not one of theBlue Demons still been undefeated. superstars and everyone can play. 
As a result, the battle for the national championship

more well-known sports in the country. Because
DePaul, of course, lost their first almost always comes down to Notre Dame-WayneWhen we put our subs in, the 
people don't like to read about sports of which they
game ofthe year Tuesday night to St. scoring continues to mount." 
State. Last year, for instance, the Irish won 23 of 25

know nothing as they skim the sports pages, papers do
Joseph's ( Pa. ), 58-45, and stands at Leading that scoring is 6-6 junior matches, but finished second in the NCAA after losing
not cover the sport as well as it could be covered. And.
I 7 -I instead of the 18-0 which most co-captain Tyrone Corbin. A verag­
two close meets to Wayne State. because papers don't cover the sport, nobody ever This year is no different. Notre Dame, despite the fuct
everyone at Notre Dame had hoped ing I3.6 points from his forward for. That defeat, however, will barely position through last Saturday's 
learns anything about it. It's a wicked circle. that it lost five outstanding fencers, three of them all-tarnish the significance of tomor­game with St. John's, Corbin had 
This problem is evident here at Notre Dame as much Americans, is riding a I9-game win streak. Wayne State as anywhere. Here we have a fencing team that has been seems to be on its way to winning another champion­
row's game. paced the DePaul attack in nine of No. 1 or 2 in the country for years and it gets the same ship. The only obstacle in its way is Notre Dame.
In large part, tomorrow's meeting their games, in addition to being of the Demons and Irish wiii be a their leading rebounder with an 
coverage as most of the so-called "minor sports." Meanwhile, it seems Wayne State is the only obstacle tribute to "Coach." Needless to say, average of7.4 boards a game. 
Notre Dame fencing is definitely a big-league to the great success of the Notre Dame fencing "Coach" is Ray Meyer, the veteran An all-America candidate who was 
program. Its success is unmatched by any sport at Notre program. For a minor sport at Notre Dame, that's in­De .Paul mentor of42 years, who, af­selected to the NIT All-Tournament 
Dame or at any other school. How many other teams credible. After all, there have always been many can claim to have a winning percentage of88 percent obstacles to success for the minor sports. Whether it'ster graduating from Notre Dame in team a year ago, the report on Cor­
(J\/er the last 47 seasons? DeCicco, who is in his 23rd
I938 and coaching at his alma mater bin says that he is an explosive 
incompetent coaches, poor geographical location, lack for two years as an assistant, took the player who is generally at his best in 
year as Irish coach, has a winning percentage ofalmost of financial support, or even lack of fan support, the reigns of the Blue Demon program nationally televised games. 
92 percent. Not bad for a program that doesn't get success of the small programs has been limited. scholarships and doesn't need them. · . . .
and has never relinquished them. "Corbin can explode anytime," as­
DeC1cco and h1s fencers have attamed a plateau that Obviously, the program also doesn't need agreat de~l only the major sports of football and basketball have
Next year, though, Meyer's son sesses Phelps. "He's playing very of publicity to succeed. Not that the fencers wouldn t attained before. The have made a name for themselves
Joey wiii guide the DePaul fortunes well along the baseline. He hits the 
love to have some loyal supporters show up when they . . Y .
as he retires after 42 years of ded­boards really hard. I like what he 
. by butldmgone ofthe very top programs m the country. icated service to the metropolitan does." 
compete,_but the c~untry doesn_t need to know that th~ But, while the football and basketball programs have program 1s strong m order for 1t to draw some of the be t I'd b k . t h k h ., · 
. . ·gun o s 1 e ac m o t e pac , t e .encmg program "It'll be hard on him leaving, it sophomores, center Marty Embry Chicago university. Up front with Corbin is a pair of 
best fencers Ill the nation. has remained right near the top. When a high-school fencer or a European fencer who Th k f . . ­really will," says Notre Dame coach and forward Kevin Holmes. Holmes 
. . e 1ac o consistent competition -not many wants to go to school in the United States IS lookmg for a schools have reall develo d fencin ro rams -isDigger Phelps. "It's going to be a is the second leading scorer for the college he thinks first of Notre Dame and Wayne State Y pe. g p gstruggle for him when he leaves it Demons at 9.8 points per game. 
' d 'f one ofthe reasons for the consistent success. Top-notch
the current defending national champions an one o
because he's done it for so long, and along with grabbing 5.3 rebounds a 
Notre Dame's opponents tomorrow in the ACC. see SULLY, page 15
that's all he's done." 
contest. 










