r---------------------------------------------------------------------~----------­
Dining Hall -page 7 
----~­


VOL XIX, NO. 39 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1984 

I 
I 
f 
lb~ C>bscorvc:r/Dan B~nd~r 

Susanna Hoffs on guitar and Vicki Peterson on drums play a song off their most recent album All Centerfor a perfonnance last night at 8. Here over the place. 
Simpson -Mazzoli bill influenced by President Theodore Hesburgh 
ByMARYCAROLCREADON 
StaffReporter 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­
versity president, was influential in 
the sponsoring of the Simpson­
Mazzoli bill that would grant am­
nesty to all illegal aliens who arrived 
in the United States before 1982. 
Representative Romano Mazzoli, chairman of the House Subcommit· tee on Immigration, Refugees and International Law, a 19';4 Nmre Dame graduate, said in an interview with the Lexington Herald-Leader that Hesburgh was influential in his sponsoring the bill. The bill passed the house by five votes. 
Mazzoli was a sophomore at Notre Dame in 1952 when Hesburgh became president of the University. Mazzoli says he kept "in touch with him over the years." 
Four years ago at the start of the 97th Congress, Mazzoli had the choice to serve as chairman ofeither a crime or immigration subcommit· tee. In the Herald-Leader article Mazzoli said, "What convinced me to take the subject is the two-fold combination of Father Hesburgh and an opportunity to deal with a 
subject that has the breadth and He also says, because the bill is 
depth and reach that most legisla­"one of those rare birds that has 
tion I have touched did not have." defied all odds' it obviously 
At the time, Hesburgh was chair­"represents what America wants". 
man of the Commission on Newsweek describes the bill as "a 
Immigration and Refugee Policy, political trade-off granting amnesty 
formed under President Jimmy for millions of illegal aliens already 
Carter. Dan Lundgren, California rooted in this country in exchange 
representative and 1968 graduate, for new employer sanctions to 
was also on the House subcommit­reduce the job-market lure for all 
tee. illegal aliens who might follow." 
"The combination of working The bill is based on the theory that with both Hesburgh and Lundgren "the illegal flow can be checked, if convinced me to take immigration not stopped only by making it over crime," said Mazzoli. The harder for workers without papers Simpson-Mazzoli bill, which is the to find jobs," according to US News first comprehensive reform of the and World Report. nation's immigration laws since Mazzoli outlines the proposed Im­1952, "has been very successful migration Reform and Control Act of even despite the obstacles," accor­1983 in The Congressional Digest. It ding to Mazzoli. He says the bill has imposes on employers who had "no friends in high places." knowingly hire undocumented 
Its opponents include the AFL­aliens penalties ofa fine up to S2000 CIO, the U.S. Chamber of Com­for each undocumented alien or a merce, Hispanics, and blacks. jail sentence of six months for 
lbe fact that the "bill has repeated violations. Presently, it is surmounted the obstacles is a great not illegal to hire undocumented credit tio the bill and the effective­aliens, so the bill requires most ness of Hesburgh. His committee's employers to demand that job appli­suggestions form the framework of cants produce documents indica­the Simpson-Mazzoli bill," said Maz­ting they are legal residents of the zoli. U.S. 
Food day to center on world's hungry 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST At S: 15 p.m., Sacred Heart Church 
News Staff will be the location of a mass in 
remembrance of the hungry around 

Creating awareness of the severe the world. Father lbeodore Hes­
hunger crisis around the world is the burgh will concelebrate the Mass. 
professed goal of tomorrow's World The homily will be given by Father 
Food Day. Don McNeill ofthe Center for Social 
The World Hunger Coalition has Concerns. 
organized a teleconference, Mass, A special collection will be taken 
and simple dinner to celebrate up for Saint Augustine's Church in 
World Food Day. Started by the South Bend, whose soup kitchen 
United Nations Food and Agricul­provides free meals for hundreds of 
tural Organization three years ago, it needy families in the area. 
is now celebrated internationally To conclude the day, a simple 
each year. meal consisting of basic foods eaten 
From 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., Notre in many underdeveloped countries 
Dame will take part in a national will be served at regular dinner 
World Food Day teleconference, hours in the South Dining Hall only. 
broadcast live via satellite from The same meal will be served 
George Washington University in tonight in the North Dining Hall. 
Washington,D.C. Students and fac­
ulty are welcome to participate in -WHC member Bill jordan said, 
the discussion and question sessions "There is a very spiritual side to this. 
immediately following in the Center By participating in this simple meal, 
for Continuing Education. even a person with negative-ideas 
Tribute will be paid to those who about the problem can't help but 
produce the world's food. The com­think about the less fortunate." 
mitment to end world hunger also The menu includes brown rice, 
will be reaffirmed. vegetable soup, bread and salad. 
Notre Dame AFROTC top unit in Ohio Valley 
By MICHELLE BRADLEY Ohio Valley region, which is com­News Staff prised of thirty schools. Of these thirty schools, Notre Dame was 
Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC rated as having the best Air Force detachment has been named the top ROTC detachment. Air Force ROTC unit in the Ohio Val­Each year the national Air Force ley region. ROTC headquarters at Maxwell Air 
In an awards ceremony last Force Base in Alabama evaluates all Friday, the award was presented to 153 senior Air Force ROTC units in Monsignor Francis Sampson, assis­the nation. The units are judged on tant to the University president for eleven categories, including the pro­ROTC affairs, by Brigadier General duction and quality of officers, the William]. Grove Jr. Grove is the na­persistence of those students on tional commandant of Air Force scholarship, the performance of the ROTC. cadets in field training, the results of 
Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC inspections, and the performance of unit is composed of 248 cadets, 206 Air Force ROTC graduates on active of whom are on scholarship. The duty. unit is commanded by Col. John D. Grove, who graduated from Miles, professor of aerospace Colgate University as a distinguished studies. Air Force ROTC cadet and has 
In order to make supervision and taught Air Force ROTC classes at evaluation of Air Force ROTC units Fordham University, said the Notre easier, the nation is divided into five Dame Air Force ROTC unit, "is obvi­regions. Notre Dame belongs to the ously a good one." 
Notre Dame professors disagree on impact of-V.P. debate 
By SCOTT BF..ARBY 
News Staff 
In the aftermath of the vice 

presidential debate between Wal­
ter Mondale and Geraldine Fer­
raro, Notre Dame professors 
disagreed on the impact of the 
debate. 
Donald Downs, assistant profes­sor for government and interna­tional relations, said, "Both were winners. They accomplished what they set out to do." 
Robert Schmuhl, assistant pro­fessor ofAmerican studies, said the "winners of the vice presidential debate were Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Both Bush and Fer­raro proved their value to their tickets. Both were knowledgeable and forceful in presenting their views." 
The 90-minute question session sponsored by the League of Wo­men Voters, centered around domestic and foreign affairs. There was a difference of opinion by the professors on the quality of ques­tioning. 
Michael Francis, chairman ofthe department of government, said the questioning was "not good at all." Downs had a milder view, stating that the questioning was better at the first presidential debate. He did say the questions were too personal at times. 
Both Schmuhl and Donald Kom­mers, professor ofgovernment and law, had no large difficulty with the panelists' questions. 

The panelists were representa­tives from U.S. News and World Report, Time, The National Broad­casting Network and Knight­Ridder newspapers. 
Each of the local observers had differing views on individual weak­nesses in Bush and Ferraro. Schmuhl felt that Ferraro handled herself well, except for lack of eye contact with the audience. Bush, on the other hand, 'came across as someone interested in talking about issues with his opponent,' he said. 
Downs felt Ferraro handled her­self better on domestic affair ques­tions, while Rush fared better with foreign policy. 
Francis felt the candidates, at times, did get away with not answering questions fully. 
All agreed Ferraro, in the spot­light because of being the first wo­man vice presidential candidate on 
a  major  ticket,  handled  herself  
well.  
Both  Ferraro  and  Bush  had  

prepared extensively the week before in hopes of making a strong showing in the televised debate. To prepare for her first political debate, Ferraro held practice ses­sions with a Bush stand-in and spent much time reviewing brief­ing books prepared by het staff. 
Bush's preparation included making refinements in his speaking style through criticisms by media consultant.">. 
Kommers said debates are useful and, if nothing more, make for good theater. "Vice presidential debates are in theory a good idea," said Francis. 
A similar view is held by Downs who said that vice presidential can­didates should debate. 
Schmuhl did wish to point out that the meeting Thursday was more ofa joint appearance than an actual debate, but he said that it is useful for voters to hear the candi­dates explain their views. 
There will not be a second vice presidential forum, although Wal­ter Mondale and Ronald Reagan will debate next Sunday. 
There was no 1980 vice presidential debate, although Mondale did battle Robert Dole in 
1976. 

The Observer 


Crane Kenney, the senior from Morrissey Hall who was injured last weekend when his car hit a telephone pole, remains in serious condition but no longer is in intensive care. Mary Green and Daniel Briody, passengers in Kenney's car, have been released from Memorial Hospital. -The Observer 
A Notre Dame student and a Saint Mary's student 
are in good condition after a car accident on Sept.30 in which they 
both suffered minor injuries. 

Stephen Brehl, a sophomore in Dillon Hall, and Trudee Landsfield, 
a sophomore in Holy Cross Hall, were involved in the accident 
which occurred at 2:28a.m. on SMC road when the car that Brehl 
was driving hit a tree.-The Observer 

The Freshman Advisory Councilomcers for the 1984-1985 school year were elected last night at Dean Emil Hofman's house. The officers were elected from the dorm represen­tatives to the council. lhe new president is Ted Smith of Flanner Hall, the Vice president is Jenny Uber of Badin Hall. The Secretary is David Duncan of Holy Cross Hall and the Treasurer is Lisa Young of 
Walsh Hall.-The Observer 

A loaded handgun belonging to a Secret Service agent was stolen along with an attache case carrying his credentials while the officer was in the city guarding Maureen Reagan, President Reagan's daughter, police said. Levester R. Youman's attache case, which contained the items, was taken Saturday after he set it down on a sidewalk to load luggage into a car outside the Westin Hotel, said police spokesman Peter W oloschuk. -AP 
A high chest ofdrawers that was once the prop­erty of President John Adams was auctioned for a record 5165,000 to a New York City art dealer, according to Christie's auction house. The price paid Saturday for the Queen Anne-style chest, built sometime between 1750 and 1770, broke the old record price of 1115,500 for an American high chest, said Sarah Paulson, a Christie's spokeswoman. -AP 
Of Interest 

The Budweiser Comedy Shop Tour is making a stop at Saint Mary's Wednesday, Oct. 17 at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Budweiser Comedy Shop features such young comedians as Jeff Altman, Elayne Booster and Richard Lewis. The opening act will be the winner of Amateur Night at Senior Bar, Bernie Pellegrino. Tickets are on sale at O'Laughlin box office, the Lafortune record store and Century Center. All tickets are S4, and all are general aamission. -The Observer 
The Holy Cross Associates Program in chile is accepting applications from seniors or recent college graduates who are interested in a service program abroad. Associates in Chile un­dertake a two-and-one-half-year commitment and participate in ac­tivities such as teaching, health care, and community outreach. The program emphasizes service in a Christian context and a lifestyle which is simple and community-oriented. Interested persons should contact Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns, 239­7949, orJohn Fitzpatrick at the Associates office, 239-5521. Applica­tion deadline is Nov. 1, 1984. -The Observer 
Weather 
A Wet Week Ahead. Today an 80 percent chance of rain with highs in the upper 60s. Tonight a SO percent chance of ·rain with lows in the upper 50s. Chance of showers the rest of the week. -AP 


The Observer 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame.lndiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated PreM. All rt.-production right~ are reserved. 

Tod:ly's issue was produced hv· 
Production Consultant ....... Steve Foster lJesign Editor. . ................... Tn y Illig lJesign Assistant ................. ........ And~· Saal Layout Staff............... .......... Andi Schnuck Typeseff...-s ..... . . . . .. Cathyann Reynold~ News .Editur............................john Menncll Copy Editor ............................... Frank Upo ~ports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino Vteupoint Layout................ Kevin Becker Features Copy Editor .. Mar~ ret :\tcCahe N[) Day Editor.. Tom Mowle, Katy Doyle 
Monday, October 1 5, 1984 -page 2 
At least we can do something about world hunger 
One trillion, five hundred seventy-three billion dol­lars. No, this is not something out of a science fiction novel. It is the national debt ofthe United States. And on Saturday President Reagan signed legislation raising the debt limit by 1251 billion to Sl.824 trillion. 
To place this monstrous 13-digit figure in a student's grasp, here is the national debt in Domer terms: 
According to Vice President for Student Affairs Fa­ther David Tyson, the administration is going to spend $3.7 million to renovate LaFortune Student Center. With the national debt, the administration could renovate 425,135 such student centers. 
Tuition, room, board and laundry were increased an average of nine percent to a total of 19,445 for the 1984-85 school year. If the national debt were in the hands ofJoseph Russo, director of financial aid, more than 41 million students could receive four-year educa­tions at this cost at Notre Dame. This is the approximate population of Iran. 
Recently the Illinois 

Sarah Hamilton 
News Editor 
Inside Monday 

the World Hunger Coalition every Wednesday for every student registered for th..: Fast. 
Unlike the national debt, these figures do not need interpretation, because they are in human terms. But for students at Notre Dame these numbers can be just as incomprehensible. Sitting through a 75-minute class with a grumbling stomach is not starvation; neither is four years of the Notre Dame Food Service severe mal­nutrition. 
To be an educated and responsible citizen an under­
standing of the significance 
Lotto produced the biggest ofthe national debt is impor­lottery winner in history. tant. To be a responsible The jackpot was S40 mil­human being, an awareness lion. If the Department of of world hunger is essential. the Treasury organized a lot­Tomorrow is World Food tery game using the national Day. It marks the anniver­debt, it could award 39,325 sary of the 1945 founding of such prizes. the FAO and is observed in 
One trillion seconds ago 1SO countries. The Notre World War II was still being Dame Food Service is ser­fought, and one trillion ving a "simple meal" in the minutes ago Christ had not North Dining Hall this eve­even been born. ning and in the South Dining 
Does this make S1.573 Hall tomorrow evening. lbe trillion any more compre­poor person's meal consists hensible? Probably not. Very of brown rice, vegetable few people understand the soup, bread, salad, coffee, national debt. But an aware­tea and water. World Food ness of its relative size and Day at Notre Dame also is 
its effect on the nation and world are important for an active citizenry and a demo­cratic society. 
One trillion five hundred seventy-three billion is an intimidating number, but there are more alarming fig­ures that have an even more direct and perilous impact on the world at large. 
The Food and Agricultural Organization ofthe United Nations has estimated that 500 million people suffer from severe malnutrition. 
Data for the years 1972 to 1974 indicate that 10 percent of the daily nutritional requirement per capita in the world was available. 
During the last 10 years, the increase in world food production has slowed to 1.7 percent. Only three to four percent of the current total U.S. agricultural exports constitute food aid. 
Only 698 Notre Dame students are participating in the Wednesday Fast, sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition. The Notre Dame Food Service donates S I to 

marked by a teleconference from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation and a Mass at 5: 15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
None of these activities will decrease the number of malnutritioned people in the world directly, but they may increase sensitivity to the problem. And under­standing the problem, be it one involving S1 .573 tril­lion or 500 million lives, is half the solution. 
It is easy to get lost in the numbers and statistics, but the crux of the situation is that people are starving all over the world, and very few of them are Notre Dame students. World Food Day is designed to initiate an awareness of this fact. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
Please 

I 
support the AMERICAN 
WCANCER 
fSOCIETY® 

This space contr~i...;;C)d as a publtc servtce 
Keep Sc:hool From Getting Boring Put some excitement in your life. Visit Skyports Unlimited, Inc and learn to fly in just one hour. Be­come a P•rapl•ne Pilot, exper­ience the safety of a parachute and the freedom of flight of an Ultra­light. 20 minutes from c•mpus 
SKYSPORTS UNLIMITED. Inc. 
Route 1 Tyler Road Walkerton. IN 


531 N. Michigan St., ~&~ Phone 233-4957 ~; 
~..................................................~ 

The Observer Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 3 
• 

Saint Mary's Mother /DaUghter weekend planned for November 9 

By MARY FRAN GISCH 
News Staff 
The junior class of Saint Mary's is hosting the annual Junior Mother/Daughter Weekend Nov. 9· 11. 
Invitations and a schedule of the weekend's events have hcen sent to the mothers, who :1re asked to respond by Oct.19 Chairw•lman Uz Zimmer said, ··Already the response has been tremendous." 
Besides traditional cvents such as tennis, aerobics and the Mother/Daughter Mass at the Church of Loretto, Zimmer has elaborated or changed events. 
For the first time, mothers are invited to attend classes Friday with their daughters. "This will give the mothers a feel for the academic life their daughters lead at Saint Mary's," said Zimmer. 
D Fall, Winter, Spring graduates with BS/MS in CS, EE, ME or Math. D Students with technical background interested in marketing or systems engineering. 

Wednesday, October 17th is 
BLUE LETTER DAY 
Explore the Technical World at IBM. 

IBM will be here in strength to give you blue carpet treatment. 
Representatives from many different IBM operations and locations will be available for informal, stress-free briefing sessions. You'll get a good idea if there's a promising fit at IBM. 
Casual attire. But don't forget to bring 3 copies of your resume. U.S. citizenship or permanent residence is required for interviews. 
=:=:=--­
-

-:-------­
===---­
-·­
® 
An equal opportunity employer 

Shenanigans will perform at the Friday night reception at Stapleton Lounge. 
Changes have been made in the Saturday night schedule. It will start with a cocktail hour at the Century Center followed by dinner and a fas­hion show by Hudson's. 
Previously, the fashion show was Saturday afternoon. It was not well attended at that time. Zimmer feels having it after dinner will finish off the evening nicely. 
The package costs S60 and in­cludes three meals for both mother and daughter and the weekend's other activities. Also, Americana hotel rooms are available for the mothers at a reduced price. The weekend cost for an extra person is S30. The package price is less than last year and even includes an extra meal. 
Another first is the Saturday Buffet Luncheon to be held in the Haggar College Center Parlor. Seating times are llam, 11:45pm, 12:30pm or lpm. 
Students are asked to stop at Hag­gar College Center on Oct.30 or Nov.l from 7pm to 9pm and reserve 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 
Call now for appointment 277-4661 
NOTICE: 
the luncheon time and dinner seating arrangement. 
Alecture series that will deal with topics pertinent to today's women will be held at various times Satur­day afternoon. Zimmer promises it to be quite interestin~ and expects the sessions to be well attended. 
Also scheduled is the National Shakespeare Company. who will perform the comedy , The Two Gentleman ofVerona in O'Laughlin Auditorium Friday night. Tickets for mothers are S3 and daughters will receive a free ticket. 
Zimmer and committee members Unda Cascio, Lynda Dowling, Maureen McCrory, 'Therese Ryan and Diane Harvey are pleased about the enthusiastic response the weekend has received thus far. 
Zimmer said, "We've tried to plan it so that both mothers and daughters will thoroughly enjoy the time they spend together. The com­mittee and I have upscaled the events to cover the academic, social and spiritual lives of the juniors at Saint Mary's." She said it will be "the biggestjunior Mom's Weekend yet!" 
Receive a free haircut with purchase of blow dry or shampoo and set 

IF YOU ARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN INDIANA AND NEED TO VOTE BY ABSENTEE BALLOT FOR PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN, PLEASE FILL OUT AND MAIL THE COUPON BELOW TO RECEIVE AN ABSENTEE BALLOT APPLICATION. 
' 

Yes, I am a registered voter and I want an absentee ballot application: 
NAM~------------------------------­
HOME ADDRESS ___________~ 
Clip this coupon and mail it TODAY* to: 
Reagan-Bush '84 14 N. Delaware Indianapolis, IN 46204 
*NOTE: This application must be mailed by October 18th. 
Pald for.,.. authorwd by llw RHcon·Buah "IW Cam-UlmnuttH. Palll La.uJt. Cl>a&nnan. A.npla 11 s....honon Jodlaoft, r-w.... 
The Observer Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 4 
Joe Zahn resignation sparks mixed reactions from campus leaders 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
News staff 
Joe Zahn's resignation last Thursday from the Judicial Council chair drew a mixed reaction. 
Pete )arret, the council represen­tative from Flanner Hall, said he "had no idea," that Zahn was going to resign until an hour before the meeting. 
"Some of his ideas were good," saidJohn Pietrowicz, representative from Pangborn Hall, citing Zahn's at­tempts to increase the interaction of the rectors and theJudicial Council. 

Bill Bergamo, elected to take Zahn's place, knew ofZahn's plans to resign. He said the only reasons for 
. the resignation that he knew about consisted of a "few personality con­tlicts." He said the council "got off on the wrong foot," and under his direction would complete the proj­ects already in progress. Zahn had been especially criticized for his attempts to transfer control of student elections from the Ombudsman's office to the Judi­cial Council. The Ombudsman's of­fice is a non-political organization within student government which acts as a problem seeker. 
35,000 attend Chicago protest rally against nuclear buildups in U.S. 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
News Staff 
lbirty-five thousand nuclear 
freeze supporters gathered Saturday 
in Chicago to march in the Midwest 
Freeze Rally. 
Amongthe 18scheduledspeakers were Chicago Mayor Harold Wash­ington and the Reverend Jesse L Jackson. Although the rally was billed as a non-political event many of the speakers attacked President Reagan's policy regarding nuclear arms. 
Jackson's speech was filled with anti-Reagan sentiment. He said that Reagan's diplomatic policies are leading us to war. jackson also said that the lack of an arms agreement with the Soviet Union is leading to an escalation of nuclear weapons. 
Leonard Woodcock, former United Auto Workers president, also urged negotiations for an arms con­trol treaty with the Soviets. Wood­cock said that our country would be stronger and safer with a freeze than by continuing to escalate the arms race. 
•  UnltadWay  
TYPING  
Term Papers  
Resumes  
Letters  
Manuscripts  
Word Processing  
Call Chris at:  
234-8997  

I 

Ombudsman Henry Sienkiewicz said his organization has no problem with Zahn or the Judicial Council. The disagreement about election procedure was just that -a disagree­ment and not a personal matter. 
Bob Vonderheide, editor in chief of Tbe Obseroer, said Zahn's labell­ing ofhim as a "clown" for editorials 
-~ //·-"',.' ...o~' \ ;,.--· PRESENT (~·il-\ \"t~*'~....,.~ .i SEMESTER TRANSFERS . L ---If you have not yet been contacted about 
Adopt-A -Transfer 
Please call Aline 283-2179 10-12 p.m. 
critic~~g Zahn and the Judicial~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Council "didn't bother" him. ~ 
"I wish he would have addressed the criticisms his actions have received," said Vonderheide. He added Zahn's resignation provided theJudicial Council with a "brighter future." 
The groups who marched soaked demonstration. "If you want 
represented freeze groups, Vietnam peace you have to work for the next 
Veterans, women's groups, students three and a halfweeks," Podulka said .and children. at the rally. According to the Chicago Sun­The daylong rally began at 11 a.m. Times, rally coordinator Gene 
with a parade down Michigan Ave-iiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilifi
Podulka said he was delighted with nue and ended with speeches in the turn-out for Saturday's mud­Grant Park. 
' 

You'll get first hand experience in the Marine Corps Officer and lawyer, talk with courtroom right from the start. In three the Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer years, you could handle more than 3,000 when he visits your campus. More than cases in a wide variety of subjects from 190,000 Marines could use your service. 
international to con­tracts to criminal law. If you think you have what it takes to be a 
NEW JERSEY CLUB 
October Break Bus 
Sign-ups: Monday October 15 6-Spm 2nd floor Lafortune 

$80 Round Trip Only! 


Have 
190,000cUents 
from thestart 
See Capt Seiwell or Lt McMannis Oct 17 & 18 in the Law School or call toll free 1-800-621·8009 
The Observer Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 5 


BILLY S(S}UIEt:< 
with special guest 
RATT 
Tuesday, November 6 7:30p.m. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $12" and $11 •• 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE A.C.C. BOX OFFICE. SEARS. ROBERTSONS. ELKHART TRUTH. JR.'S MUSIC SHOP. ST. JOSEPH'S BANK (MAIN OfFICE). WORLD RECORD (GOSHEN). MUSIC MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR). AND KAIIMA RECORDS 1FT WAYNE) 

Thousands of drunk Kansas State students attack police after game 
Associated Press 
· 

MANHAITAN, Kan. · Thousands of drunken Kansas State University football fans, celebrating a victory over their archrival, attacked police early Sunday in a "frightening'' near-riot in which several officers were injured and 2S people were ar­rested, police said. 
"We had several thousand drunk people on our hands ... and they started attacking officers," said Man­hattan police Sgt. Darrell Yarnall. The situation came close to erupting into a riot, he said. 
As many as 8,000 people, most of them students, had packed into a 

NEW HOURS ~12 p.m. Mon-Sat ~ ~lOp.m. Sun 

two-square-block area of shops and bars known as Aggieville to celebr:ate Kansas State's 24-7 victory Saturday over the University of Kansas, Yarnall said. 'The victory gave Kansas State the Governor's Cup, awarded each year to the win­ner of the game between the two schools. 
"They got to drinking, it kept get­ting more crowded and they started to take over the streets," said Yar­nail, who was among officers from Manhattan, Junction City and the Kansas Highway Patrol who were called to the scene. "I can tell you it definitely was frightening." 
Police Sgt. Vernon Brown said the 
THIS OLDE HOUSE PlmRIA llPUB 
This Monday and 
Wednesday we wiD 
deliver a Medium 16" 
pizza with 1 topping for 
$6'5• 

Each additional item is $100 
Now 0...fOI' Llulcll at lla.•.ll 
277-4519. 

CAll. BEFORE 11:30 p.m. FOR DEUVERY Expires J0/17/84 
"mass disturbance" erupted about 
midnight. 
The ·celebrants, chanting "We're 
number one," started to get unruly 
and choke off streets, he said. One 
officer was stabbed in the forearm 
with a knife and others were pelted 
with botdes and debris, he said. 
Reinforcements were called in, and it took about 75 officers, most of them wearing riot helmets and car· rying wooden clubs, a couple of hours to clear the area and restore peace, Brown said. 
Six officers were treated at a hospital and released, and several other officers sustained injuries that did not require hospital treatment, Brown said. Most of the injuries were cuts and bruises on the face and arms, he said. 
Twenty-five people were arrested on charges of disorderly conduct and battery of a police officer, Yar­nall said. By mid-morning Sunday, most had been released after posting bail, he said. 
There were no reports of serious property damage, but at one point a crowd rushed into a convenience store and began stealing beer from the cooler, Brown said. 
Yarnall said police did not use tear gas, but that a "civilian type" set offa canister oftear gas in a bar. 
Chet Peters, vice president for student affairs at Kansas State, said Sunday morning that he had not received an official report about what took place. He said the situa­tion would be reviewed and appro­priate disciplinary action taken against any students found to have broken the law. 

FINANCE I ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
We are coming to your campus career success using our on Monday, October 29, 1984,-management process --a for a pre-interview reception in the personalized way of developing Morris Inn Alumni Room from 7 to 9 your career strategy with a 
p.m. and Tuesday, October 30, qualified manager. 1984, for interviews. During your interview ou can 
For finance majors, General also discuss the specific .Foods has an appealing career responsibilities of positions in our strategy geared for the 80's Chicago facilities that produce graduate. We're coming to your nationally known products. You'll campus to tell you about the also find out more about the definite career development varied assignments and paths that only one of the world's professional challenges that leading food companies can come with joining a world leading offer you. company. For your on-campus 
You can get the facts about the interview, sign up now in the opportunities we are creating to Placement Office of attend our support our bold projections for pre-interview reception on growth in the 80,s. Hear about Monday, October 29, 1984. 
General Foods Corporation , 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 
~i~~~_{)__i_ll___t________________M_on-da-y,_Oc-to-be-rl-5,_19-84~-p-ag-e6 
'Student store' challenges high Bookstore prices 
In the absence of market competition, there is nothing to stop prices from getting out of hand. Unfortunately, this is the case at Notre Dame, where the difficulty of getting off campus to the malls has resulted in a virtual monopoly by the Hammes-Notre Dame Bookstore. 
· A study conducted by the Student Senate last January confirmed that bookstore prices for school ~upplies and health and beauty aids are not com­petitive. When a committee compared prices at Hammes to area drugstores, it found differences of up to 45 percent -even for brand-name items. But when the committee approached Brother Conan Moran, bookstore manager since the 1950s, with suggestions for improving the situation, he was rude and un­cooperative. He said the committee was "dishonest" and its survey was "politically motivated." 
The committee proposed that the bookstore sell items at or below cost, but was told this was "a bad business practice." Another alternative, supplying products of a lower grade, was rejected because Notre Dame students were supposedly "brand conscious" and would not buy generic items. Moran made it clear students could not approach the problem through the bookstore. 
As a result, the senate recently took more direct action by proposing to establish a non-profit "student store" to sell generic items as an alternative to bookstore items. The store would be located in the basement of LaFortune Student Center and would be operated by students. In addition to providing day-to-day items at reasonable prices, a student-run store would be more con­veniently located for many students and presumably would be less crowded during football weekends. 
However, Thomas Mason, vice president for business affairs, said of the pro­posed store, "It would go bankrupt." The administration has consistently dis­couraged th~ senate from its attempts to provide any such alternative to the -
Hammes bookstore, suggesting it is unnecessary and implying that direct com­petition with Hammes will not be allowed. 
The attitude ofMoran and Mason raises questions about Hammes' purpose as a campus store. If the store is mainly to provide convenient and accessible shopping for students, then why not sell at prices more compatible with stu­dent budgets? If it is primarily to make a profit off visiting alumni and others buying Notre Dame paraphernalia, then why not support a separate, student­run store? 
The bookstore continues to make a profit at the expense ofstudents. Main­taining this practice just because it is "good bu5iness" is unfair unless there is a viable alternative for students who cannot easily get off campus to shop. But the administrative discouragement ofa student store suggests the University is reluctant to lose any bookstore business. It seems bookstore profits are a higher priority than student concerns. 
The rejection of a student general store is even less understandable in view ofthe fact that there are several other student-run stores on campus, including the Student Union record store, Irish Gardens, the newT-shirt store and dorm foodsales. 
The idea of a bookstore alternative has great potential. and should not be compromised or watered down so its effectiveness is lost. As a result ofadmin­istration pressure, the senate will propose tonight to establish a store selling only generic items. There is no reason not to carry brand name items as well, as generic goods will not have the same selling potential among students. 
A student store, set up in the spirit of fair competition, would provide a needed alternative to the bookstore and would prove that student government actually can have an impact on the issues that matter. 
-The Observer 
Gays on campus: The invisible presence 
. 
Suddenly last summer the world came crashing down on Jim (a pseudonym). His story could easily get lost in the sea of stories that wash routinely over this campus. But jim's story is too important to allow it to go unnoted by the campus community. 
You see, Jim is gay. And Jim used to attend Notre Dame and therein lies the crux of the conflict. Let's examine an aspect of Notre Dame briefly and then return toJim's tale. 
It is often said that the Notre Dame commu· nity is one grand family, but as with any family 
The ND-SMC Gay s·ociety guest column 
some members tend to be more prominent, more celebrated -more loved, if you will ­than others. And as with families, some mem­bers tend to be more hidden, less mentioned, less included than others. Sometimes it's diffi­cult to know why a parent seems to relish the achievements ofone child more than another, but in the case ofNotre Dame it is much easier 
-although realistically no less complex  -to  
perceive why  gays  are  "invisible"  to  the  
campus population.  

When this campus celebrates its stars, they are often athletes excelling on a field or a court, or scholars pioneering new paths in re­search, or believers embodying in their lives a commitment to social justice. These are indi­viduals the University chooses as images ofit­self, to be embraced by a public that longs to see heroism reflected in its symbols. The ath­lete, the scholar, the priest-these are symbols underlying the reputation of Notre Dame as "the premiere Catholic university" in the U.S. Except for the case of the priest, sexuality is not hinted at in the depiction of these sym­bolic figures -and in the case of the priest his 
vow ofcelibacy is honored in allowing him to channel his sexual energy into pursuits which will induce an improvement in the spiritual lives of his followers. The point is that in describing heroes, their sexuality is often out of the portrait. And frankly that's perhaps the way it should be since their sexuality has little to do with their accomplishments. 

But a gay person doesn't quite fit this portrait ofa hero. A gay man or a lesbian -as a fact of the "unfreedom" which continues to hound his or her life-is often defined by soci­ety by his or her sexuality. It is like being told to forget something specific -the more you are told to forget it the more likely you are to remember it. To society, a gay person is a con­stant reminder ofsexuality-whether the indi­vidual is sexually active or not, once society learns of an individual's homosexuality it becomes for society the salient characteristic of the person. 
Certainly there are cases of very talented individuals transcending such a societal obsession, but with people like Jim, rising above the label and its pejorative implications is a herculean task for which they lack the power. And the fear ofhaving to attempt such a difficult transcendence keeps many from re­vealing their true selves. Uke society, Notre Dame -given its particularly religious nature · chooses to leave sexuality out ofthe picture. 
Jim graduated from Notre Dame in May and returned to his home in Maryland. When he was a sophomore he had told his family of his sexual nature and his family had told him to get some help. He went into therapy for a while and the subject was never formally mentioned again. 
During his last two years at Notre Damejim was frank with his close friends about his true nature -but with the campus-at-large he felt constrained to conceal himself. To reveal gay­ness on this campus is to remove yourself from the potential hero's place that may await you. By not masking your gayness you are recalling to all that we are sexual beings (no matter your preferences) and such a reminder is unwelcome on this parietal-minded campus. You are no longer eligible for the favored place at the family table, and you now become invisible. 
Jim went home this summer and found his family shocked to learn that he was still gay. They had assumed that through therapy and the countless "heroes" surrounding him here at Notre Dame, this aberrant sexual "phase" 
was guaranteed to have passed quietly into 
the night. His family ordered him to "behave" 
or leave. By "behave" his family meant for him 
to model himself on the heroes -asexually as 
they are portrayed -of Notre Dame. After all, 
they said, that's why we sent you to Notre 
Dame, where there are so many fine role 
models from which to choose. 
Today Jim is looking for work in New York City. He is very much alone and invisible. And one wonders if somehow Notre Dame could have been more helpful to him during his stay here. 
Some might say that Notre Dame did help him by not presenting a false world to him, by not presenting a world where his gayness did not matter. Notre Dame, they might say, taught him the best lesson: that to survive in the cold world and to be gay he would have to mask certain parts of his portrait. He would have to pretend to be something other than he 
actually is. 

But perhaps Notre Dame could have taught him a better lesson: that iflater he truly would have to deny certain portions ofhimself, allow certain aspects ofhis character to become in­visible, ifhe were to have felt the freedom to explore his identity entirely -to have dis-

covered the roots of his drives and needs -he 
might be better equipped today in being a 
more secure individual in negotiating the nar­
row path to happiness away from the Dome. 
If Jim had been relieved of the worry of someone's discovering his genuine nature, if he had been free to expend his energies en­tirely in the pursuit ofbecoming the authenti­cally heroic Jim, if he had been exposed at Notre Dame to role models whose sexuality was included among their many human char­acteristics, perhaps Jim might be a stronger individual today -strong enough to withstand the abandonment by his family, strengthened in the knowledge that the Notre Dame family had supported him as a student and would continue to support him as an alumnus. 
(The Gay Society of Notre Dame -Satnt Mary's encourages members of the Notre Dame family to learn more about sexuality and creating positive role models. Those in­terested may call Counseltne Monday through Friday between 4 and 12andaskfor tapes 20 and 21. The Counseline number is 239-7793./nformatton abouttheSoctety can be obtained by wrlttng: GSND-SMC, P.O. Box 194, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556.) 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor m Chtef Bot' Vonderheldf; Busmess Manager Dave Tatclet Managtng Edtfor Mark Worscheh Controller Marrpat Horne 
The Observer IS the Independent newSpaper published by the students of the News f:dttor Sarah Harn1tton A.dverttsmg Manager Anne Cull1gan Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Marys College It does not necessarily News Edttor Dan McCu!I(JUQh c,rculaflon Manager Jeff O'Netll reflect the poi1C1es of the adm1n1Sirat10n of P.lther tn~tltutton The news IS rpported dS Samt Mary's Edttor Anne Mor:astyrskt Svstems Manager Kevrn W1ll1ams accurately and a5 ObJeCtively d!' poss1hlf• Uns1gned ed1torrals represent the optn1on Sports Ed·tor M1cnael Sull1van of a maJOrity of the Ed1toraal Board. Cornmentar1es letters and the lnstde Cot,nnn Vtewpomt l.:.d1t0r Dave Gr01t•· present the v1ews of thetr authors Column 5pa:::e 1s av::lllable tu all members uf tl"e Fe..Jtures Edt/Or Mesry Hea:. 
Founded November 3, 1966

community. and the free e:..press:on of vary:n\,j up1n10'1S on campus. !hr,)ugn letter~ Photo Edrtor Pete Li:H.. h~·~. IS encouraged 
Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 7 
Showcase 
Sir Obnoxious for president 

by Joe Kapitan 
features staffwriter 
by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
Believe me, annoying ones, it was never among Sir Obnoxious' intentions to have to do such a thing, but it appears there is no altern­ative. Sir Obnoxious must do what is in his power to aid this wretched country. Therefore, you little rugrats, he hereby declares, at this obnoxiously late date, his candidacy for president of the United States. 
Sir Obnoxious realizes that he has a mere three weeks to campaign 
for this high and mighty position, and so he will have to move fast. 
Worry not, for every political move has been planned with careful 
precision. 
First, let Sir Obnoxious briefly present his platform. Ask him about 
any issue. Religion and politics? He's for them. The federal budget 
deficit? Make it bigger. Nuclear arms? The better to play practical 
jokes on countries with. 
What does Sir Obnoxious plan to accomplish in the next four 
years if elected? Legalize bigamy. Make Frisbee an Olympic sport. 
De-franchise the Dallas Cowboys. Create a Department of Tactless­
ness to promote and research rudeness. These are just for starters. 
Secondly, Sir Obnoxious must make his financial disclosures. Sir 
Obnoxious is not ashamed -he is poor. He has no ownership in any 
companies whatsoever. He makes money the old-fashioned way: he 
borrows it. When he gets a job, he pays it back. Employment in the 
past has included a cashiering position at K-Mart, photographer for 
Penthouse magazine, and public relations man for Motley Crue. Sir 
Obnoxious estimates his worth at approximately two thousand dol­
lars, but ifyou include his secret estate in Beverly Hills, then he runs 
somewhere up in the millions. 
Thirdly, since the two "major" candidates have quite a head start 
on Sir Obnoxious, drastic actions will have to be taken in order to 
make up for lost ground. 
Excerpts from the Mondale/Reagan/Si.rObnoxiousdebates: 
Wbat isyourstand on Latin America? 
Reagan: My stand on Latin America? Uh, well, I uh ... 
Mondale: Latin America's not going to push me around, no sir, no 
way, no how. Nope. And ifthey think they are, well they've got an­
other thing coming. · 
Sir Obnoxious: Latin American countries can push me around all 
they want. lbey can insult the United States and my family heritage. 
They can send illegal aliens into the country by the shipload. They 
can even threaten us with more. And then, after they've done all that. 
I'll just call out Air Force One and blow them offthe face ofthe Earth. 
Wbat do youplan to do in the way oftaxation? 
Reagan: Taxation? Uh, well, I uh ... 
Mondale: I've explained that many times, and I see no need to repeat it for this silly debate. What is this Sir Obnoxious character anyway? And who's his running mate? 
Sir Obnoxious: Ifyou must know, I have selected Howard Cosell to be the next vice president of the United States, and he has gra­ciously accepted the offer as he is lookingfor something to do. About taxation, I plan to tax anything which I consider wimpish or reeking of excessive politeness. Examples, of course, would be Cabbage Patch dolls, McDonald's restaurants, Air Supply records and tapes, and Old Milwaukee beer. 
Wbat question wouldyou mostlike to ask the othercandidates? 
Reagan: Who does your hair? Ha ha, just kidding. Just a little joke, 
heh heh. No, really, I was just kidding. 
Mondale: Why do you hate me so much? What did I ever do to 
you? Do you really want to hurt me? Do you really want to make me 
cry? . 
Sir Obnoxious: You guys call yourselves a choice? I'd have an 
easier time picking between Kenny Rogers and Julio Iglesias. You 
want to know why I hate you, Fritz? Same reason everyone else does. 
Your schnozz is simply too big. And Ronnie, who does your hair? No 
joke. 
Excerpts from the "Sir Obnoxious for President" commer­
cial: 
... and what does Ronald Reagan believe? Ronald Reagan believes in Santa Claus. And he believes in the Tooth Fairy. But most impor­tant, he believes he can win an election bysmilingand not answering any hard questions. And he's probably right. And what does Walter Mondale believe? Well, who knows what Walter Mondale believes, but Sir Obnoxious believes that Walter Mondale's nose is too big. Way too big. So, ifyou don't want an old geezer in the White House who'll blow up the sales tax and die within the next four years, and if you don't want a parrot with a very large beak there either, cast your vote for Sir Obnoxious, the leader America needs. Just take a look at who he's running against. 
Sir Obnoxious: 
I watched you debate against Mondale and Reagan the other night, and the vice presidential candidates weren't really touched on. I was just curious -what do you think oftheir running mates? 
A member ofthe Socially Unacceptable Party Dear member: 
Sir Obnoxious does not wish to touch either of the candidates. If Walter was going to pick a woman, h~ should have selected a saucy young vixen such as Phoebe Cates. Or perhaps Vanessa Williams. I mean, she was Miss America and all. And George Bush? Well, Sir Obnoxious does commend his wife for her comment about Ferraro, when she said Ferraro was a -well, she couldn't say it, she said, but it rhymed with "rich." And Sir Obnoxious would respect Mrs. Bush even more if, in Sir Obnoxious' humble opinion, she weren't such an ·well, Sir Obnoxious can't say it, but it rhymes with "old bag." 

Forum focus: Domer dining 
W
hen one writes a column such as this one, the author sometimes fails to realize that readers can easily become sick and tired oflistening to his or her own ideas and opinions. Four large men with clubs helped me to see the light yesterday, and I would like to show them my appreciation by trying something new. I've decided to start a feature's column entitled "lbe Forum," in which readers will see a variety ofideas and opinions on various topics. 
Here's what people had to say about this week's topic -the Notre Dame Dining Halls: 
"Definitely a viable social alterna­tive. It's a great place for respon­sible social gatherings. By the way, something has to be done about that salad "bar." 
-The Alcohol Committee 

"I never thought I'd be writing to you, but something happened at work last week that changed all that. I was alone in my office when my boss' secretary, Lola, walked in. 
·OOPS· WRONG FORUM! 

"Where's the beef?" -ClaraPellet 
"I don't baby the students -I feed them the same way I feed my own family. Leftovers are an unpleasant fact oflife." -The Director ofND Food 
Services 

"I could swear I've seen that meat-like substance before." -an observantstudent 
"Don't eat and drive. The life you save may be your own." -South Bend Pollee Dept. 
"Lettuce out ofhere!" -a diningball worker 
"They've got a great team in there this year." -Gerry Faust 
"What is really in noodlebake?" -Ripley's Believe Itor Not 
"No, they don't have toast-on-a­stick, but they do serve smelt -and we all know just how painful that can be." 
-David Letterman 

"We've really enjoyed doing business with them." -Soybean Growers ofAmerica 
Once a stud, always a stud 
he was greeted by a large group of us that were interested in his trek.

by Paul Aiello 
At first, he was uncharacteristicallyfeatures staffwriter silent to all our questions until he 
A
s I think most people know, the word "stud" refers to a special breed ofhorse or mare that is kept for the special purpose ofbreeding. Over the years, the word has ex­panded its meaning to include those males who pride themselves on their relations with females. Funny, some are only legends in their own minds. 
Last year, Potsy (fictional name from theHappy Days character which I will use to protect the stud's identity), in his big freshman year (which some contend has never ended), developed an intense letter correspondence with a girl he met the summer before while vacationing in Ireland. To those that knew him, it seemed that almost every day Potsy would be reading a new letter from "His Love." Her letters would arrive in cutesy pink or yellow envelopes, drenched with perfume the smell ofwhich would fumigate the corridors around our section. lbe odor ofthat "special" aphrodisiac came to cloud Potsy's mind. 
As time passed and the fog started toPticken, mere notes were simply not enough for Potsy and "His _ Love." Thus, phone calls between them (she goes to school in North Carolina) increased in frequency and length throughout the first half ofthe second semester. For hours they would talk about "things." The bubble was expanding at a tremen­dous rate. Anyway, there must have been some substance to their conversations. In late March, Potsy announced to us that somehow he would find a way tO" visit the beloved one over Easter break. This "somehow" was a big one since Potsy was absolutely broke at the time and had only a slim chance of catching a ride that would take him anywhere near North Carolina. Also, any expedition of this sort would have to be done without mom and dad's knowledge ofit. 
Still, when one is in love, I guess any feat is possible. Amazingly, Potsy was able to attain a sizable loan providing him with the necessary funds. Against the odds, he took off on a solo fourteen hour journey in a rented car to finally reunite with "His Love". 
While spending Easter back at home in New York, I occassionally would chuckle inside wondering about Potsy's fate. All I could do was wait for his triumphant return late Sunday night. When Potsy finally returned back to his room, 
The Near Side 
"Why should they change? They're doing a great job a.., it is." -a spokesman for Domino's 
Pizza 
"Their chili has definite possibili­
ties as the weapon ofthe future. 
The Russians are scared." 
-the Pentagon 
"I love the food -especially those 
tofu vegetables. I regret that my 
travelling causes me to miss many 
ofthe meals." 
-Father Theodore Hesburgh 
"I don't really like the food ­
especially those tofu vegetables. I 
wish there was a way I could get off 
campus more often and miss a few 
meals." 
-a South Quadfreshman 
"I would really like to know what's in those tofu vegetables." -a curious senior 
"No you wouldn't." -a dining hall cook 
"We don't know nothin', we only eat there." -the rest ofus 
Well, what more can I say? Cer­tainly food for thought, isn't it? Sorry about that, but I couldn't resist. Anyway, I'm starving, so I am going to go to the South Dini... uh, Wendy's for some food. Why do I get the feeling that I'll see you there? 
suddenly screamed, "She gained thirty pounds and watches profes­sional wrestling!" With this out­burst, all ofus broke down laughing. Obviously, pre-season hype is a common problem here at Notre Dame. 
Poor Potsy.A clear-cut and tragic victim ofcupid's arrow. But don't worry, Cupid's shot was definitely not fatal. According to the latest reports, Potsy is planning a west coast expedition this fall break to meet up with a cheerleader who has a whirlpool. 
Once a stud, always a stud. 
Mark Weimholt 


-------~----~--~--~------­
The Observer -page 8 


----------------------------~------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------~--------~------~. 
Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 9 
;pirit of Notre Dame football weekends 

It seems that nothing can keep us from enjoying our home football weekends. Not rain. Not the alcohol policy. Not even losing to Air Force. Absolutely nothing. 
This collection of photos from the last three football weekends gives testament to the fact that the Fighting Irish spirit never fails. The encouragement from our cheerleaders has continually kept us cheering, and the songs from the band have even moved us enough to get us to stand up during halftime. And if you've ever caught a glimpse of our band majorette, julie Schwebel, you know that she's never without a smile. 
We owe a great deal of thanks to our parents and assorted alumni friends who sponsored all those tailgaters that gave us a chance to do some partying on an otherwise partyless campus. Especially grateful is this partier, Chris Almon, get­ting by with a little help from his friends. 


., 
And last, but not least, is that talented little guy who returns to campus for every home game to show offhis football skills on the South Quad. Here we see him successfully recovering th~ fumble. Eat your heart out, Steve. 
And remember --keep the wave rolling! 


•
---------~----------------------------~----------------------------------------------------~ 
~ 
) 
Sports Briefs 

The ND basketball teamwill be holding walk-on tryouts todayfrom 8 to 10 p.m. in the Auxiliary Gym at the ACC. For more information, contact Jim Baron at the basketball office. -Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMC Women's GolfClubdefeated 
Albion College this weekend in Albion, Mich. Medalist for the tourn­ament was Mary Huffman of Saint Mary's with a score of 86. jane Boland shot 93, Julie Smith scored 99 and jackie Schwartz finished with 112 to lead the team to the victory, 390-396.-Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame BoxingClubwm be holding 
its annual novice tournament this week. Semi-finals will be held tomorrow and finals will be Thursday. The matches will begin at 4 
p.m. both days in the boxing room at the ACC. The public is welcome to attend. -Tbe Observer 
Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 10 
The ND I SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tomorrow at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse.-Tbe Observer 
In outdoor volleyball competition 
sponsored by NVA last week, The Spiking Hodiends defeated Stan­ford East for their second consecutive championship.-Tbe Observer 
Co-ree basketball and volleyball captains should attend meetings this Wednesday in the football auditorium in the ACC. Basketball captains will be meeting at 4:30p.m., and volley­ball captains will be meeting at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding 
Stables is beingsponsored by NVAon Sunday, Nov. 4. Trips will leave at 10 a.m., 11:30 a.m., noon and I :30 p.m. Ifyou have put your name on the waiting list or are interested in signing up, bring SS to the NVA office to cover transportation and rides. -Tbe Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 12 

The Obserr•er Notrl' Dame: office:. lm:atnl on the third floor of Lafortum: Studl'nt Ct:ntl'f. accl'pts dassifinl ad\Trti~in~ from l) a.m. until f p.m.. :\1onday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint \tary's offict'. locatt:d on the third floor of Haggar College: Ct'nler. a1..Tepts dassifinb from 12::\0 p.m. umil 5 p.m.. Mon­da\' though Friday. lkadlint' h'r m·xt-day cla~~itkd~ is .-\ p m. All dassifit·d~ mu~t he prt'paid. t:ithn in pt·r~on or h\ mail. Char).!t: is I 0 tTnts pn five ~..·harac­
Classifieds 
lers lT day. 

Flying United home for break? Call Bob at OH GOD, DO I NEED LSU TICKETS! Oh DAVE MILES! Attention Notre Dame MEN: MARCI 2n-6186 after 6pm lor a $50 discount. yea, I do! Oh, do I need them! Oh yeet IF YOU DON'T COME AND PICK UP YEAKEL needs a date for an SYR on Nov Yes! I need them! Uke you wouldn't THESE y V!!! LOFTS. 2nd. Applications are now being accepted 
NOTICES FOR RENT 

log 250,1 believe! Oh! Yes! LSU tickets! Oh yes! I'M GOING TO BURN THEM' in 243lyons. Tom Sellecl< need NOT ap­()h! Oh! Apyppehhhhh!!! AFFECTIONALEL Y YOURS. ply! 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. Furnished faculty apartment Castle Point Please call Steve at 2658. BOB 
available Jan-July 1 $295 month. 272-BB/BS BB/BS BB/BS BB/BS BB/BS EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. 9605 The Flu .. comlngll The Flu -BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS: Bowling CALL MAS. COKER 233-7009. TICKETS comlngll SAFE TO THRASH I!! this Thursday 4:15-6:00. Call John Shea 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED-TO 

at 2n-o607 if interested. TYPING SHARE APARTMENT WITH THREE HI KAREN! THANKS SO MUCH FOR Jackie Boggs OTHERS AT NOTRE DAME APART­Hey all you petrlotlc, freedont-kwlng COMING DOWN FOR YOUR BREAK! I A ................................................ available r ...... MulvlhiH 684-8793 MENTS. $105.00/MO. CONTACT AmarlcaM out "*'-· My dlatltnt HAD AN EXCEUENT WEEKEND WITH N .......................................................nice How are your teeth? If you don't stop get­SHEILA AT 283-3791 OR 232-Q746. coualns have juat been grw1a.d · YOU! I'll BE WITH YOU 5(X)N OVER N ............................................. nymphette ting cavities, how will you ever drink any permlnlon to emml..-to the U.S. MY BREAK! HAVE A NICE TRIP BACK cold beverages? (Warm beer sucks!) Wil type your papera, manuiiCripts, etc. Fe. the ftrat time In their Hv•, my TO AICHMONDtLOVE, JEFF M ...............................................maniacal Fast and accurate. Reasonable rates. ralatlvM wll be tree to do and ­
U ............................................ unattached LD--You make me smile with my heart! Pick up and drop off service. Call Mary things that their oppraalve communlat REVENGE IS SWEET: A hickey is always R ................................................... radical NMITWYM'WYILWAJGt PDP 234-5545. WANTED governrnent retu..cs to I« them do a hickey. p.................................................pleasing 
I 
before. h Juat ao happens that my H ...................................... happy-go-lucky TRIP TO CRESTE BUTTE, COLORADO TYPING AVAilABLE. 287-4082. 
blood ralallv• will be allowed to leeve SKID ROW SKID ROW SKID ROW SKID Y ...................................... -......... yearning SPONSORED BY SKI TEAM 113 TO 
COLUMBUS, OHIO Ruulaln a f-Wllaka, end they aaked ROW! 1/11 INCLUDES 5 DAY LIFT TICKET 6 STEAMBOAT, DAYTONA BEACH, That's where I -nt to go lor break. Can me to If th.....any ..,they could NIGHTS LODGING TRANSPORTATION SOUTH PADRE, CORPUS leave Friday morning. Please caH Tracy at -anAll-Amarican football gMIB. So HEY KELLY AND BETHIll AND LOTS OF WILD FUNt CONTACT 
CHRISTI/PORT "A"... Sundlue Tours 284·5185. Iuld I'd look fc. tlcketa fc. the Nov. 11 Here's my response. JULIE4354 
"Brllllk from the Books" winter and spring PENN STATE IHM· Now h'a up to you It's your move. ~ ski and 1188 trips available NOW! New COME & EXPERIENCE ONE to aall me two tlckata ao that a couple -T.G. ATIENTION All MALES: AUDREY BE­Years Eve ski WMk from $155, Daytona of the AREA'S MOST EXCITING of Ruaalan lmmlgranta can -afoot· OPERATION CROSSROADS AFRICA, CKMAN IS BACK IN ACTION! YES, THE 
from $89, Padre from $78, Corpus FOOO&DRINK bell game. Hyou can oblige. piMae c.ll INC. will have a representative on WINNER OF THE MUCH COVETED M. Christi/Port "A" from $79. HURRY call ESTABLISHMENTS Tomlnaky at 15110 campus WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17--AAAAUAAAHHHHHHHHHHHIIIIIIII! P AWARD IS IN FUll FOAM ONCE Sunchue Tours toll free for rTIOfe infor­H.l.'s Old Town Saloon, 213 Front St., 1 :30-2:45 PM at the CENTER FOR SO­(That Mike DeMaio laugh) AGAIN AND ANXIOUS TO MAKE UP 
mation 1-8()()-321-5911, within Colorado Niles, Mich., is now accepting applica­1 GA TICKET FOR S. CAROLINA GAME. CIAL CONCERNS. He will speak and FOR LOST TIME STOP BY 331 AND 1-8()(H)21-8385 ext. 302, local (303) 493-tions for Wait staff, Bartender, H01tesses. 513-574-5314. show slides about the organization's HELP HER CELEBRATE. 6703 or contact a Sunchue Campus Doormen, & Bus Staff. Only experienced Summer WortVTravei/Study Program. lsn't this great, honey? The kids are 
Representative or your local Travel need apply. 684-7774 I wiH trade Air Force Srudent Tix and/or Call the esc (23~5293) lor rTIOfe infor­playin', nice neighborhood, chandelier M. L. -DIDN'T YOU FORGET SOME­Agency TOOAY! Penn St.Student Tix and/or money for mation. hangin'... GET OUTIIII THING FRIDAY NIGHT? NOWS YOUR Ride or Riders needed to Toronto over PENN STATE GA'S.If you don't trade To be bad-can't stay, baby! CHANCE-GO FOR IT!!!!!!! TYPING CALL CHNS 234-8tf7 Break.Cal Vicky 284-5013. and/or sell I hope you end up in a swir1­ing,auckingeddy ofdeapair.Cal12777570 Is the u.tcetlng Queen out there YO-KRISTINE WHO IS THIS LEPREc­AIESEC MEETING, Tuesday Oct. 16 at Need a ride to Ft. Wayne for brllllk. Will anymore? I've heard that she's become HAUN????????? 7:00pm Utile Theatre, LaFortune, (NO). help pay.Call Judy-SMC5465 Need 4 Srud. Tix to S.Carolina game. CaH PHILADELPHIAPHILADELPHIA quite the BCA au_, now. Crown that Paulx3666. philadelphiaphiladelphiaphiladelphia midterm!!! John & Renee: 
Happy T1'811e Riding 8,.._ WANTED: RIDERS TO RICHMOND/DC BUS SIGN UPS $62.00 roundtrip A YEAR?I?I? I CAN'T BEUEVE YOU Offering the Ultimate in Aurumn Activities AREA FOR OVER PART OF OCTOBER SELL ME YOUR SOUTH CAROLINA Call OWEN 288-2361 Hey, LIZARD WOMANII MADE ITIII (Will miracles never with Trailriding, Hayrides, Bonfires, Barn BREAK. LEAVING THURS. NIGHT TICKETS!!MY GRANDPARENTS ARE Have you seen Bruno's woman at cease???) 
Dances and good timM! We are the Best 10/25 AND RETURNING SUN NIGHT COMING IN FROM THE GREAT CITY Azar's lately. I heard that she waa publicly 
Aiding Stable You11 rNer try ..Call for 10/28. WANT TO GO? GOODt! CAU OF PITTSBURGH--NEED TICKETS TWO NEED RIDE TO N.Y.C. FOR humiliated last week there. It was sup­But like I said ... After the first month, res.valiona in advance. 616-663-8236 JEFF AT 3859. BAD!!WIU PAY WEU. CALL MOLLY BREAK CALL TONY 1101 posedly quite the good time, except for .NOTHING could phase me!!! Edwardsburg. MI. 2923. the earthquake and some guy yelling 
NEED RIDE TO MDWY AIRPORT FRI CARROll ... HAUNTED! "Hey lucy". Word lor the day: DENEUTER 1D-19. MUST LEAVE NO 12-1:30. WIU HELP!!!REALL Y NEED 2 SOUTH 3 Baby if you wanna ba wild, you got a lot 
MAKE IT WORTH YOUR WHILE. TIM CAROLINA TICKET9-STUDENT OR HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, DOROTHY 
YES, I'M DESPERATE -FOR A AIDE to learn, dose your eyes, let them melt, let
1045. G.A.-WIU PAY WEll! CALL CAROL ANN DAVID! YOU'RE NOT IN KANSAS BACK FROM D.C. THAT IS. HELP! 2923 ANYMORE, BUT I'M ALWAYS IN THE them fire, let them burn. -Bruce The SCHLEPP QUOTES RETURN I Ill
PATTY2973 RIDERS NEEDED TO N.JERSEY OR MOOD FOR ICE CREAM AND/OR SpringstMn 
.................................................................. 
NYC CALL GIAN 232-D321 4 SALE: 2 GAs 2 STUD. S. CAROLINA BOARD GAMES. MAKE IT A GREAT 
KMnBn 3 W•t Schlepp Quote of the
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD GAME ERICx2029 ONE, DOT. LOVE, YOUR FAVORITE Cindy fiNer-Catch it! Join the Cindy
Week: "Piddley, the Antfdlr1-', wtter
ANNOUNCES THAT THE FIXX ARE groupie club. 
WANT TO RENT A CAR AND RIDE TO FRESHMAN (WHO IS NOW A SOPHO­
and Sldlburne--THE BmER QUADII
COMING TO NOTRE DAME TEXAS? CALL STEVE AT 4284. I have 4 S. Carolina tixs (GAs!!) & 1 Srud. MORE) NOV.16th.TICKETS ARE $10 and $11 tix-Will trade for 4 Penn State tixs (GAs) -HELP... I'M LOST AND I NEED DIREc­
Kim Tranner Do your parents really read 
• 3IICh and can be bou<,Jht at THE RECORD NEED AIDE to and from St. louis at Call Joe at 1933 -THANKS! OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, TIONS... 
these? Do they know that you are MissSTORE AND STUD.ACT.BD.TICKET 
break. Can leave at one's convenience. CARRY OUT Tll3 A.M., US 31 N~ ONE SYR? Do they know what a Wolfpup is? 
WINOOWTUESDAYAT9e.m. Call Usa at SMC 5464 I would like to trade two South Carolina BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. TO BARBARA; SHE'S IN LOVE BUT I'M Do you? Does anyone really know?
GA'a for two Penn State GA'a. I 11111y IN LUST. TONY ENDAD 2 rides needed to DC area for break. Call even toea In a PSU atudent tldlet or TINA Ill 
Does anyone care, realty?

Megan 284-5461 or Jane 284-5452 two, plua my flrat-bom aon. c.tl Mike Ga.d to ...you'ra BACK.(TEE-HEE) JEAN JEAN THE ICE MACHINE ... JEAN at ~53231f you',.lntereated end we Paul & u.rty JEAN THE ICE QUEEN... JEAN JEAN MY POPSICLE DREAM...JEAN JEAN
I need a ride to St. louis on 18th or 19th -cen wort1 outadeal. SIGNED
wil~ng to rent car if you do not have a car -Kim Tren,.."PUP" is usuany that wierd if COLD AS ICE CREAM...
LOST/FOUND I 

Call Murph at 1933. S.C. tldlata FOR SALE not wierder. He often resorts to computer Dear C. A. Gebo 20382 I have your un­ROGER We're talking really cheap ... dating. That's how he met LOWANDA. 
derpants. Incredible lkidders! If you -nt them back, leave $50 in the big !Iowa' pot K.T., MAN OF SILK, AND SUE
I need 4 Penn St. Tickets -Call Mimi at I've got some G.A's to get rid of ... Now lowanda is a very jealous girt. A very outside the South Dining Hall. 
LOST-ROOM 407 KEY PLEASE CALL 284-5201 -THANKS! CaB Andy at 272-2873 after 7:00 strong very jealous girl. Now. she doeln't HALF-BEARD REIGNS SUPREME!!!!!! 41891F FOUND like her Wolf-pup seeing other girls so ··········· ·····-····················· GOING TO BUFFALO OR CLEVELAND ........ . .••••.............•..
Need ride to Pittsburgh on 10/19. CaJt BEWARE. Karen2676
> LOST: A WHITE WINDBREAKER WITH Desperately need 2 S.Carolina GA's for A Friend FOR BREAK? See America's FaH Vaca­LAURA "BOOTS" McKNIGHT-A RED AND BLUE COLLAR. POSSIBLY my parents.Cal Jean SMC5446 tion land! Spaces open on the Buffalo A finer pair of peraonnel carriers I've l 
I 
....
·LOST OR TAKEN IN LAFORTUNE Bus. ROCHESTER people welcome! never seen! 
RIDE NEEDED: TO NO FROM BALLROOM. IF FOUND OR SEEN ROCHESTER NY ON SUN OCT 28. SOUTH CAROLINA GA'S -I HAVE 6 POTTER ABUSE .... Don't you love it? CAU GREG at 283-4115. love, PLEASE CALL TEARY AT 1991. THANK GA'S FOR THE S.C. GAME. CALL Half-beard
CALL 'BECCA 4053 YOU!!! X2275, ASK FOR PAUL-BEST OFFER WENT TO A PARTY 
F ROOMMATES WANTED 277-2367 

!!!!!!!!!!!!! CHIWN' THE PLACE LOST LOST A GRAY WINDBREAKER YOU SEE THE FIRST THING THAT The abuae Juat keepa on coming......
....................... ···························· CARL WELEHAN We've always thought 
ON 1D-9. HAS CAR KEYS IN THE POCK­SOUTH CAROLINA G.A. TIX -I NEED 3 COME
GOING TOCHICAGO FOR BREAK! THE you were gorgeous. but when you drove

ETS. IF FOUND CALL TOM AT 287-TOGETHER. HOPEFUUY. PATTY THE MUSIC IN VO' FACE
STUDENT ACT.BOARD IS RUNNING by in that Porache, our knees were weak!

3037. REWARD Desperately need ride to PHILADELPHIA
BUSES FROM N.D. toOHARE AIRPORT 2973. GIRLS ON THE WALL love and kisses from A few of SMC's finest (VILLANOVA AREA) Will share expenaes 
AT 3P.M. FRIDAY,OCT.19th and 4P.M. SOME ON THE FLOOR Loet, 80IMWherw INtwwn D-211nd the THE AND HART AND THE D.J. NAMED JAY
SAT., OCTOBER 20th. FOR THE FIRST FIXX COREY ARE Ulnry, A vc*t N.D. Key ring with two COMING TO N.D. ON NOV. 16th. TICK­WITH THE TUNES GALORE .. ............. ..... ·············.
TIME EVER. AT 7P.M. SUN­TO A CERTAIN BLOND FUTURE DOC­

hOUM keys end two C8l' key&. H found, ETS ARE AVAilABLE THIS TUESDAY -RUNDMC DESPERATELY need ride to PHILADEL­
DAY,OCT.281t1; WE WIU BRING STU­...
lOP. OF AMERICA: Deneuterization
call5288. PHIA (VILLANOVA AREA) lor October
DENTS BACK TO N.D. FROM OHARE. BEGINNING AT 9A.M. AT THE RECORD stage 1 COITlpleted; congrarulationa on a break; will share expenses; call MiriamCOST IS $10 EACH WAY AND SIG· STORE AND STUDENT ACT BD successful mission! Proceed to stage 2 4174NUPSARE AT THE RECORD STORE IN TICKET WINDOW. TICKETS ARE $10 ATTENTION: KRISTEN TRIMMER­A.S.A.P.
laFORTUNE.SAVE MONEY S~VE and $11 EACH AND YOU CAN BUY A You are the motherload! 
LOST: A LETTER ADDRESSED TO 

MONEY! MAXIMUM OF 6 TICKETS EACH. -a not-~aec::ret admirer So you're the "most beautiful girl in theRAYMOND ZASADA, CONSUMER'S world" Nance? You've obviously neverBEVERAGES OF CLARENCE, N.Y. IF 
RIDERS NEEDED South c.rotlna t111 Fe. s.le heard of truth-in-advertiSing. Ha! 
FOUND CALL MIKE AT 277-3828 1need riders to St. Lou Ia c. Cenll'8l Mle­I have one srudent ticket for sate. Chaep, ATTENTION PETE L.AIIBAT: COHGRATS CAROL.II! aour1 lor October break. Call Maria at Cheep! CaH Maria at 284·5534. THE COUNTDOWN HAS STARTED. On the Rhode to success.

LOST: camera during Miami Game. 

( 284-5534. 5(X)N 'NE WIU BE IN THE MIDST OF
PleaH Call Pattie 284-5087 

COMPLETE DEBAUCH ON THE LOVELY GEORGETOWN What's it aH about -A.lphie CAMPUS! S, A. and M: Since your letter I've been I'U DRINK TO THAT, BUDDY! meaning to write and warn you; Chris' What ts life on this campus coming to? LOST Gift's Denim Jacket on South -LOU condition can be contagtous. Signs to
.....____FO_R_S_A_LE---.JJ I ~ERS?~ALS 
Quad, Sun. 1 D-7. has Chicego bus pasa in -tch for are: -nng bathrobes over Spaz, you are the biggest Scoop around! LITTLE TOMMY TORTER 
pocket if found, pleue return to clothes. photos taped to mirr0111. bizarre Chin up and smile (or get shipped out by OBSERVER, third floor laFortune Airline ticket 1-way Dallas-So. Bend. $50. I ain't nothin ·but tired. parties planned, strange notes from tho&e thoee of us who care about you deeply) ··························· ··········· ················ 
2n-3237, 7-10pm. I'm just livin in a dump like this, who weren't there, new desire to move ··················· .................................. . LOST:BROWN SUEDE WALLET,LAST I NEED A AIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR There ·s somethin·happenin·somewhere, OC. 1oes of srudy abi~ty. loud "theme" Dan, you are a styrofoam-eating God! SEEN AT CORSY'S.NO QUESTIONS BREAK. CAN LEAVE RIGHT AFTER Baby •I just know there is. songa, weight gain, tapeworms. If you ASKED. CALL ANA MARIA 288-8035. I'VE GOT 2GA & 1STUD FOR SC GAME THE GAME AND Will PAY THE USUAL. -The Boss have experienced one or more, please Where is everyone tonight? does no one yyAEWARDyy CALL GIAN 232-0321 CALL MAUREEN AT 1333 seek help ASAP' Dr. Ruth . have a soaallife like us? 

-· 
The Observer Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 11 
NCAA confirms Phelps' allegations of cheating 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Edttor 
Notre Dame basketball coach Dig· ger Phelps had to be feeling some­what satisfied this weekend after Walter Byers, executive director of the National Collegiate Athletic As­sociation, admitted Phelps was right two and one-half years ago when he made allegations of cash payments to athletes. 
Phelps, who alleged that a stan­dard rate of $10,000 a year was being paid to outstanding basketball players by a number of colleges, made his statements at the Final Four in March of 198.2 in New Or­leans. At the time, Phelps was sharply criticized by his peers for making his comments when he did. 
However, Saturday, in an inter­view with The New York Times, Byers acknowledged the truth in Phelps' remarks, saying additionally that Phelps had underestimated the amounts of the cash payments. 
"I didn't believe it at the time and I believe it now," Byers told Peter Al­fano ofTbe Times. "I won't speak to a sport, but to the value of the money. And we've had people tell us on a 
...'IIUI SIILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
• 
test-n-tape library 

• 
reinforcement test 

• 
homestudy packet 


CLASSES STARTING IN OCTOBER 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272-4135 
CNEUS 
TIME TO REPAY 
YOUR LOAN. 

Ifyou've gone to college on a National Direct Student Loan, a Guaranteed Student Loan or a Federally Insured Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, and your loan is not in default, here's a way to get your loan repaid. 
Use the Army's Loan Repayment program. Each year you serve on active duty reduces your indebtedness by one-third or $1500, whichever amount is greater. In a three-year enlistment, you eliminate your debt. 
Additionally, you could learn a valuable skill and take advantage of many other Army opportunities. Ifyou have the time, we have the money. 
Check it out with your Army Recruiter. 
SGT JONES 234-4187 
ARMY. BEALLYOU CAN BE. 


confidential basis that it's more than that." 
"When I made those statements," Phelps said yesterday, "I was just talking about things that I had talked about for years. I knew that time was in my favor. Those (in the coaching ranks) knew what I was talking about. But we still haven't com­pleted the mission." 
Byers made his statements in light of a growing awareness nationwide of the number of recruiting viola­tions presently taking place. 
"We're not keeping up with the chase," Byers said. "I've talked with our representatives and people I respect and the problem is much worse than I thought." 
Byers, who has been executive director of the NCAA since 1951, also addressed the issue of schools which break the rules and yet do not feel any remorse. 
"I will say that it bothers a lot of our people who sense a lessening of resolve among coaches that the rules are enforced," the 62-year-old Byers said. "Fewer coaches are will­ing to cooperate." 
The "younger generation" of coaches is somewhat less cooperative, Byers added. 
Still, Byers also feels that those in­volved with college athletics will do something soon to rectify the pres­ent problem situation. 
"I have the belief that ·an over­whelming number of people -the presidents, athletic directors, fac, ulty and coaches -want a better world in intercollegiate athletics," said the administrator of 791 mem­ber institutions. "I think they will embrace a new order. 
"In a society, there will be chronic violators in any system. But I think this is worth the effort. With a con­scientious re-evaluation... it could very well work. Ifit doesn't, then in-
wb't 1\nigltta of tltt<ttastlt 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest minutes from campus 
272-0312 277-1691 
$8.50 

Haircut shampoo >;-.<;_~.~ ft."rran: Lane 
blowdry ( ~~ Rd. 25) 
:\(·ro~~ from Marttn's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 

Now delivering Macintoshes that were ordered up to Sept. 20. Pick up your Mac before break. 
tercollegiate athletics could be 
seriously damaged or destroyed as 
we know it." 
"There's one way to handle it," 
contended Phelps in an interview 
with The Observer early last month. 
"If Byers would come out and just 
burn a few people good -with con­
sistency, and I mean the big powers­
it would stop. Stiffer penalties are 
what we need. 
"Obviously, it's not working now, 
is it? What we're doing now is noth­
ing," continued the Irish coach. 
"The penalties aren't severe enough. 
The academic credibility is not 
there yet." 
Athlete says he was offered car 
Assodated Press 
DALLAS -Keith Slanberry ofOkla­homa, a leading recruit in 1981, says he might be playing for Southern Methodist University if an SMU alumnus had not offered him cash and a car to sign with the school. 
"I feel like he was trying to buy me and I didn't want to be put in that position," Stanberry · said. "Oklahoma didn't offer me anything and Texas didn't offer me anything. SMU was the only one that came at me like that." 
The Mount Pleasant defensive back is now a senior at Oklahoma. He told his story last year to the Na­tional Collegiate Athletic Associa­tion, which has been investigating the SMU athletic program and alumni recruiting for 20 months. 

Stanberry told The Dallas Times Herald the offer was made by William Means Jr. of Mount Pleasant, a 1971 SMU graduate who was a loan officer and vice president ofa Mount Pleasant bank at the time. 
"He said, 'What kind of car do you like?' I said, '280Z.' He said, 'You can have that ifyou sign with us,"' Stan­berry said. 
Means denies making the offers and says he did not even try to recruit Stanberry for SMU. 
Stanberry also says Means offered him a II0-an-hour summer job "to do nothing" except work out and lift weights. 
Tennis 
continued/rom page 16 
comparison to last weekend when 
the Irish were overcome in their 
own backyard. 
"I was not pleased with our per­formance against Western Michigan at all," said Petro. "I didn't think we gave them a very strong effort. It ap­peared as if Western Michigan wanted it more than we did and we weren't willing to give that extra bit of effon that it would take to beat them. If we would have given a stronger effort, we would have won the tournament." 
Despite taking the North Star Con­ference Championship and receiv­ing early predictions of a Division II National Championship in women's tennis, Petro is now hesitant to predict that the Irish will even make it to the final tournament unless they strenghten their play and become more aggressive on the court. 
"As I discussed after our Irish Invi­tational with my players, I'm no longer talking national champion­ship," said Petro. "Not that it's out of the question-I'm not saying that-but as displeased as I was with their per­formance at the Irish Invitational, I suggested that they'd better be working a litde harder. Unless they get their act together, I'm not even talking national tournament. 
"I think we have the potential for 

it (the national title) and that's what ·we're going to do -maximize our po­tential because that's always been 
my goal since I've been coaching." 

' 
'­
The Observer Monday, October 15, 1984-page 12 
' 
\ 
-~ 
, 
.' 
' 
( 
At Bethel College 

SMC volleyball wins two matches 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 
Last Thursday the Saint Mary's vol­leyball team travelled across town to Bethel College. where the Belles picked up two victories. 
In the first match Saint Mary's defeated a tough team from Trinity Christian College of Chicago, 1 5-12, 13-15, 15-13. The Belles then topped host Bethel, 15-4, 15-7. 
Saint Mary's Coach Brian Goralski said Trinity is one ofthe tallest teams he has seen. The squad's height ranged between 6-0 and 6-3, which 
obviously  helped  against  Saint  
Mary's  at  the  net.  The  Belles,  
however,  were  not  to  be  in­ 
timidated.  

"We adjusted pretty well," com­mented Goralski, "and we kept the ball in play every time they hit over our block." 
Although Trinity had the height advantage, the Saint Mary's coach said he feels the Belles had the upper edge in technique. The match was "good for our defense," Goralski said, referring to the team's excel­lent digging abilities which kept the match close. After splitting the first two games, 

The Belles found themselves down, 13-8, in the rubber game of the match. Senior Ann Boutton and freshman Anne Williard rose to the occasion and responded with their powerful serves to lift the team to its twelfth victory ofthe season. 
"(The Belles) proved they came 
out to play ball," Goralski said, citing 
sophomore Patty Williams for her 
nice outside shots when the pres­
sure was on.· 

Coming off the grueling two hour match with Trinity, th~ Belles con­tinued to play well as they disposed of Bethel in straight games for the second time this season. 
Goralski credited Bethel with im­proving since the two teams met earlier in the year, but he also said the Belles have been improving even more. He said he felt each indi­vidual player put forth a "good all­around effort " He particularly noted the consistent play ofBoutton and freshman Mary Carole Feldman. 
Saint Mary's season record now stands at 13-5. The Belles will at­tempt to improve this record against Ancilla College of Donaldson, Ind., 
A·DRAMATIC NEW CONCEP IN SUN TANNING! 

Preserve your tan with our NEW tanning bed 
TAN-HAWATfAN 
sun tonnr'Q solm 277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 

VISA&: MASTERCARD 
I i I Dial 283-4242 to place an order I•: ~Order corsages and wrapped •: flowers in advance i C ~ -..--rwo days notice required for corsages I ..­...___, __-. . ...............................................................................................  

CaMpu• EntertainMent pre•enta: 
The Budweiser Comedy Shop Tour Coaae enjoy 3 ofAmerica's hoHest young coaaedians: 
.J•ffAlhlaa Elayae Booeler 
RlchardLewt. 
Appearing at O'Laughlin Aud, SMC October 17 8:00p.m. 
7:45 Pr:e-show comedy acts featuring: 
Bernie Pelligrlno (1st place winner ofAmateur Night) Ruth Kaiser, Kevin Flynn, Ane Green 

Tickets on sale at SAB Record Store· LaFortune, O'Laughlin Box Office and Century Center $4 General Admlselon 
tonight in the Angeia Athletic Facility. 
Although he said Ancilla does not have a very strong team, Goralski said the match will give his team a chance to work on some specifics as it prepares for another dual match on llmrsday night with conference team Huntington College, and DePauw University. 
In NAIA action, the Belles have only one loss in nine outings and a victory over Huntington could lock up a spot for them in the district tournament. 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 

The Notre Dame soccer team lost last night, 4-1, at Marquette. Rich Herdegen put the Irish on the scoreboard first at 32:40, but the Warriors came back with a goal oftheir own ten seconds later. Details will be in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team won 
two games on Saturday. In the first game, the Irish downed Iowa Wessleyan, 6-0. Corinne Digiacomo and Benet Deberry each scored two goals for Notre Dame, while Regina Degan and Meg McGlinn added one each. In the second game, Lake Forest fell to the Irish, 4-1. Melissa Sommer scored two goals, Christina Weinmann had one and Beth Bisignano had one goal. Notre Dame plays Ball State today at Muncie. -The Observer 
SummerJob Applications Available 
The Notre Dame AlumniAssociation, in cooperation with the Career and Placement Services Office, will again sponsor the SummerJob PlacementProgram 
in 1985 

IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR SUMMER JOBS IN AN Alumni Club city, obtain an applicationfrom the Alumni Office, 201 Admin. Bldg. 
APPLICATIONS MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED BY NOVEMBER 30. 



You'll be a class act with our precision cut &style. Specially priced this week, $12 
R9GIS HAIRSTYUSIS 
University Park Mall 272-1168 


The Observer Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 13 
Detroit wins World Series on Gibson's homers 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The Detroit Tigers 
capped a classic runaway season and 
captured their first World Series 
since 1968 by defeating the San 
Diego Padres 8-4 yesterday in the 
fifth game, as Kirk Gibson drove in 
five runs with two homers. 
Gibson's second homer, in the 
eighth inning, came off relief ace 
Goose Gossage, who had not 
allowed a run in seven previous 
World Series appearances. Lance 
Parrish also homered off Gossage in 
the seventh inning. 
The victory completed a three­

game sweep of the Padres at Tiger 
Stadium after the two teams had split 
at San Diego. 
The American League champions in the final game unveiled a potent offense that led the major leagues with 829 runs and 187 homers during the season. They combined the timely hitting of Gibson in this game, Alan Trammell throughout the Series and two complete-game , victories byJack Morris to dominate the Padres. Trammell went 0-for-4 
Sunday, but he still hit .450 with six RBI's in the Series. 
The Tigers also took advantage of shoddy Padre fielding and baserun­ning to turn a game that was tied at 3-3 into a runaway. 
Sparky Anderson became the first manager to win World Series titles in both leagues. Anderson managed Cincinnati of the National League to World Series titles in 1975 and 1976. 
The Tigers finally saw their start­ing pitchingfail in this game -a prob­lem that had plagued San Diego throughout the Series -but Aurelio 
Lopez bailed  the Tigers out  with  
some  overpowering  relief,  and  
Willie Hernandez finished up.  

Gibson, the AL playoff MVP, had slumped early in the Series, but he quickly made up for it with a two­run, upperdeck homer in Detroit's three-run first inning. He then scored from third on a shallow fly ball to right field to break a 3-3 tie in the fifth inning. 
Left-bander Mark Thurmond lasted only one-third ofan inning for the Padres, giving up those three first-inning runs, but the telling run 


clip and sa\·e-clip and save-clip and save-dip and save-clip and save-clip 1»
C U

~n ounse ne ~ 239-7793 ~ Worried about midterms? Try tape 37 on 
1-. relaxation exercises or 38 on coping

~ 
~» with stress.

i 
~ 
I» -u.-t.... 

~ !!I!.! nne ,.,_ ! l"&'i-llip hlldiJII .. "'" of la\'-7
-6" • """i.aa1 la\'-f 
Dl • ~Lila ....u ... ~· ......lillie;! 7 DMlilll wttll ~tl'IICU'ft ~U\cl• 1
-IIMliJII wttll Allaft ~ t ~e\UdiJII ,._,_, -.... to Deal 111.!11 It ~ 10 .. to .., -..• ;; 11 ~ Ope to Ottwre 11 Datilot SIIUle · 
;., zo '-1• ._._1\t,.
E ~ *'·--utr 
w ,.. Aaaiotr ud Pooeillla w.,. to Copo IIUII lt 1111 JZ .. to Deel wttll ._liM•• D JJ -u -lo Pure 
Q. J4 IDCHUiJII Solf-ARHMoe f) )5 lulldilot· Solf·lllt-&lid Co!'f1deftCe Dl J7 ..luatloe borcieaa ~ )I CopiJII with Stra.. 
Jl F-1• 5011 lolo-CIIanpe &lid Str...., .0 llalO ,.. lola--a.aac•• ..... s,...... ._ IA&mlq to Acc.,t Touraolf 
61 What ie Therapy and -to Uaa It 10 lat.t...tiOII or Lon? 
I) -to Cope with a IITolloa ..latlOftelllp 14 o..tll and IIJ'ina ~s undaratandtna Grl•t 90 llolpina a Fri­
160 EarlJ Slp1a of 1111 alcohol Proltl.. 161 ..apoftalble Pecialont about Drinklna 402 Self Aaaortivoneaa 412 Exa.ploa of Contract luildina 431 llbat h Doprua.ion 432 -to Deal vith j)epr.,alon 
•11 Depreaalon aa a Lifeatrle 471 1eec.1n1 lndepw~1•"t frc. Parent• 
479 Deelln& vltb Alcvllodc ParaDta 491 !ulcldal Crlaia 492 ..cotnlzlna Sulcld&l Potential• ln Other• 493 llolplna S-M in a Suicidal Crhh 

; 
:s 
~ ~ 
&. 
~ 
~ 
~ 
came off Andy Hawkins, who had 
pitched 12 innings ofreliefin this Se­
ries before gi'-:ing up a run. 
When Thurmond left, San Diego 

starters in the five games had 
worked a total of only I 0-and-one­
third innings, giving up 16 runs for a 
13-94 ERA. 
Gibson led off the winning inning 

with a single off the glove of Padres 
third baseman Graig Nettles. He 
went to second on a fly, and Hawkins 
then walked Larry Herndon on four 
pitches. 
Craig Lefferts relieved Hawkins 

and walked Chet Lemon to load the 
bases. Pinch-hitter Rusty Kuntz then 
popped up to shallow right field. 
Tony Gwynn moved in from his out­
field position, and second baseman 
Alan Wiggins moved out. Wiggins 
called Gwynn off the ball and made 
the catch whiJe still backpedalling. 
Wiggins made the catch above his 

head, stopped his momentum and 
With two homers 
threw, but it was too late to catch Gibson racing home with the clinch­ing run. 
The victory capped a season that saw the Tigers become only the third team, and the first since the 1927 Yankees, to go wire-to-wire in first place. The Tigers won a club­record I04 games, clinched the American League East on Sept. 18 and swept Kansas City in three games in the AL playoffs. 
Lopez, meanwhile, entered the game with one on and two out in the fifth inning and struck out Kurt Bevacqua to retire the ·side. He struck out four and didn't allow a hit the rest ofthe way. 
Thurmond, 14-8 in the season, was the second Padres starter to last less than one inning when he was pulled after getting just one out in the first, yielding three runs on five hits. Ed Whitson went two-thirds of 
an inning in San Diego's Game Two 
victory. 
Leadoff man Lou Whitaker started 
the Tigers first when he singled. 
Trammell hit into a fielder's choice 
before Gibson.came to the plate.He 
homered on the second pitch. 
Parrish followed with a single and stole second as Padres catcher Terry Kennedy was unable to get the ball out ofhis glove quickly enough. Par­rish moved to third when Larry Herndon singled to center, and Chet Lemon followed with a single that scored Parrish with the third run of the inning. 
That chased Thurmond for Haw­kins and gave the Tigers a 3-0 lead. 
Petry finally yielded a run in the third on two infield hits, and the Padres tied the score 3-3 in the fourth. 

' 
Gibs.on changes jeers to cheers 
Assodated Press 
DETROIT -Detroit slugger Kirk Gibson, booed by Tiger fans just a year ago, turned the jeers to cheers Sunday night. 
Gibson slugged two homers, driving in five runs, to lead the Tigers to an 8-4 victory over the San 
1-. Diego Padres and the 1984 World "CC = Series championship. Dl "I think I've just proved what a lot
= 
-ofpeople said about me," Gibson ex­
(jl 
~ plained in the joyous and noisy Tiger A dressing room. "I've always thoughtf of myself as a clutch player, but when things were going bad last
111
&. year, not · many people believed ; that." ~ Gibson struggled at the plate and 
Q. in the field a year ago, hitting only -6' .227 with 15 home runs and 51 g RBI's. This year, he finished the regu­
lar season batting .282 with 27 homers, 91 RBI's and 20 stolen bases. 
"Sometimes I'm a little too in­tense," Gibson said as he gulped a can of beer, eschewing the tradi­tional champagne which his teammates were pouring over one another. "When the game's on the line, I want to be at the plate. That's what I dream of. My concentration seems to be greater when the situa­tion is tighter." 
Gibson told of how he put extra pressure on himself in the Detroit eighth while on deck. Detroit manager Sparky Anderson signaled that Padres reliever Rich Gossage would probably walk him. 
Using hand signals, Gibson said he disagreed, bet Anderson S10 that Gossage would pitch to him and that he would hit a homer_ 
Anderson undoubtedly won't mind coughing up the S I o_ 
Detroit centerfielder Chet Lemon noted that it wasn't until Game Five of the World Series that the Tigers finally showed the balance that marked their spectacular season. 
"I think the key to a good ball club is being able to close the door," Lemon said. "We started doing that in Toronto in September, and then in Baltimore, in Kansas City and now we've closed the door on San Diego. The bottom line is that we played great defense, hit with power and got great pitching." 
jack Morris, the hard-throwing right-hander who won two World Series games, said he wasn't sure how history would judge the I984 Tigers. 
"I guess that's up to the public," Morris said. "But, they can never take this away from us. It's a reliefto have it over. I never realized win-
If you're a musician who's serious The Army has bands performing It's a genuine, right-now, imme­bout performing, you should take a in Japan, Hawaii, Europe and all diate opportunity. look at the Army. across America. Compare it to your civilian offers. 
Army bands offer you an average And Army bands offer you the Then write: Army Opportunities, P.O 
40 performances a month. In every­chance to play with good musicians_ Just Box 7715, Clifton, NJ 07015_ 
·ng from concerts to parades. to qualify, you have to be able to sight­
Arn1y bands also offer. you a read music you've never seen before and ARMY BAND. 
nee to traveL demonstrate several other musical skills. BE A' L YOU CAN BE. 
ning could draw this much atten­tion." 
Lou Whitaker, the smooth-fielding Tiger second baseman who set the table for Alan Trammell to win the Series' Most Valuable Player Award, was torn be­tween his joy at winning the Series and the fact that his wife, Crystal, gave birth to their second child on Saturday night. 
Irish 
continued/rom page 16 
get the ball moving." 
DeBerry, in contrast, was very 
pleased with his team's defensive ef· 
fort. 
"Time and time again·our defense 
held them and caused turnovers," 
said the Air Force coach. "The 
players believed in themselves out 
on the field, and we won the game." 
Jody Simmons, the offensive star 
for the Falcons with 141 rushing 
yards, set up the first Air Force 
touchdown with gains for II-and 
28-yardo; before plowing over from 
the five-yard line· to put Air Force 
ahead 6-0. 
'lbe Irish then used some good 
field position to get it."i only points of 
the game. After Irish punter Mike 
Viracoia pinned Air Force deep in its 
own territory, Notre Dame got the 
ball back at it."i 47. 
Grooms performed well on this 
drive, connecting on four of five 
passes for 30 yards, including the 
two-yard pa.."is to Milt jackson on 
fourth down that tied the game.john 
Carney's kick gave Notre Dame a 7-6 
lead. 
Air Force wasted no time coming back. The Falcons marched 76 yards after the kickoff, with all but nine yards of it coming on running plays. johnny Smith capped the drive with a one-yard plunge for the score. After a halfback pass for the two­point conversion, Air Force had a lead it would neverrelinquish. 
Notre Dame could not seem to make the necessary adjustments to stop the Air Force option plays. ·when it tried to prevent the Falcon halfbacks from making so many yards on the option pitch in the second half, DeBerry made a counter adjust~ent -having the quarterback keep the ball more of­ten -and the Air Force offense resumed eating up yardage against the Irish. 
''I'm concerned about our team," Faus~ said. "We have to regroup, and it's not going to be easy." 
~~-­
~ Need LSU Tix ~ Call collect eves. 
504·291·0642
l
~~~~-~~~~~ 


------~------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------... 
... 
< The Observer Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 14 

~ ·.·
? ~ 
,·: ~ ~ 
I . ( 
' 
., < 
' ! 
!.• 
' ' 
<( ;. 
! ' 
~: 
( > 
~·. 
~ 
'•. 
(· 
( 
Falcons' wishbone prevails 

Sloppy play costs Notre Dame 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI Adding to the Irish offense's Unfortunately for Notre Dame, it Sports Writer misery Saturday was the problem of doesn't get any easier from here on. holding onto the wet football, as With games left against such teams 
Before Saturday's football game Notre Dame coughed it up six times. as South Carlolina, L.S.U., Penn State someone wa.•; heard to ask, "How The quarterback's mishandling of a and U.S.C., the Irish have got their come it always rains at Notre Dame center snap, a much too common work cut out for them. when ESPN televises the football occurrence this year, accounted for To make matters even worse, game?" A better question might be, four ofthe six. Notre Dame lost only some of those games will be on net­"How come Notre Dame plays so one fumble all day, but each time the work television. poorly when its games are snap fell to the ground it cost the televised?" Of Notre Dame's last 13 Irish a much-needed down. network television appearances, the "Those fumbles killed us;' Grooms 
S.turdey'a GerM
team has won just two. Contrast that admitted. 

AirForce 6 8 0 7 21 record to the fact that Saturday's win The Falcons themselves turned Notre Dame 0 7 0 0 7 Scoring
marked the seventh televised game the ball over three times, one more 
AF -Jody SIMMONS 5 run (kick failed) in a row that Air Force has won. time than Notre Dame did. ND -Milt JACKSON 2 pass from Scott GROOMS (John CARNEY kick)
This contrast between the two However, their turnovers didn't 
AF -Johnny SMITH 1 run (Mike BROWN to Hugh
teams' televison records is akin to hurt them as much since the Irish 
BRENNAN for conversion) the contrast between the way the failed to capitalize on any of them. AF -Bart WEISS 5 run (C8rlos MATEOS kick) AF NO 
two teams played on Saturday. The turnovers served only to 24 14
First downS While Notre Dame was struggling to prolong the time in which Air Force Rushing attempts 75 30 Net Yards Rushing 371 90
find its lost offense, Air Force was finally put the game out of reach. 
Net Yards Passing 27 117 marching up and down the field al­P-oomp-attempted 2-6 12-35 
most at will. Speaking ofGreg Pshsniak's fourth Had intercepted 0 1 Total Net Yards 398 207 
The game's statistics speak for quarter fumble deep in Notre Dame Fumblea-lolll 4-3 
6-1 lbc Ob:ierver/Thom Bradlq themselves. Air Force's potent territory, DeBerry said, "We could Penalties-yards 7-64 2-10 Punts-average 6-37.8 7-40.0
wishbone attack had 3 71 yards rush­have put them away a lot earlier than 
New players, new season 
ing, which is over four times as many we did ifwe didn't drop that ball." lndlvldu.l L.eedera RUSHING -AJr Force: Simmons 24-141; Weias 20­
yards on the ground as Notre Dame 

69; Evans 13-54; Pshsniak 7-35; Brown 6-26; Smith had. The Irish had the advantage in Saturday:s game probably was 4-24; Pharris1-22; Notre Dame: Pinkett 22-76; Smith Tbe newest members of the Notre Dame basketball team were 
passing yards by a margin of I I 7 to best summed up by junior tailback 6-23; Grooms 12-(-9); introduced to the media at yesterdqy's picture day. From left to 
PASSING -AJr Force: Weiss 6-2-o; Notre Dame: 
27, but that statistic is offset by the Allen Pinkett. Asked why Notre Grooms 35-12-1; right arejeffPeters, Gary Voce, Matt Beeuwsaert, and Dave Rivers. fact that Notre Dame passed 29 Dame couldn't move the football, RECEIVING-AJrForce: Pharria1-18; Brennan 1-9; Tbe Irish formally begin practice today as they prepare for their Notre Dame: Brown 4-29; Bavaro 3-29; Pinkett 2-29; 
more times than the Falcons did. Pinkett answered simply, "The season openerNovember25againstManhattan CollegeattbeACC.
Howard 1-21; Smith 1-7; Jackson 1-2; Air Force head coach Fisher defense just stopped us." Attendance -59,075(c) DeBerry was understandably pleased with his team's perfor­mance. "This is one ofthe biggest wins Air Force has ever had," DeBerry said. "I've got to praise our staff for the tremendous job they did of prepar­ing our football team." With the team's success at run­ning the football, the first-year head coach knew where to give credit. "I thought our offensive line did a good job ofblocking those trees," he said, referring to the size of Notre 
~ 
...
Dame's defensive line. 
Few would disagree with DeBerry assessment of quarterback Bart Weiss, who replaced the injured 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 29 7:30 
Brian Knorr. Weiss had only two completions for 27 yards, but he gave the Irish fits by running the 

NOTRE DAME A.C. C. 
wishbone attack to perfection. • :·our quarterback played ex­tremely well," commented DeBerry. 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $1350 
"He did a good job ofcontrolling the game on the field. He is one of the TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, 
most outstanding option quarter­backs in the country." 

SEARS (UNIVERSITY PARK MALL, ELKHART, MICHIGAN 
On the opposite side of the field was another quarterback playing in 

CITY), ROBERTSON'S (SO. BEND, TOWN AND CO.UNTRY 
place ofan injured starter. Unfortun­ately for Notre Dame, he did not 

AND CONCORD MALL), ELKHART TRUTH, J.R.'S MUSIC 
have the success that Weiss did. Senior Scott Grooms, starting his 

SHOP (LA PORTE), ST. JOSEPH BANK (MAIN OFFICE), 
first game this year, attempted 35 passes but could complete only 12 _kJ WORLD RECORD (GOSHEN), MUSIC of them for 1 1 7 yards. Grooms was disappointed in the game's 0~ MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR), AND outcome, and he refused to blame anyone but himself. 
"<3~· 0~ KARMA RECORDS (FT. WAYNE) 
"My performance was very inade­quate. I missed a lot of open people 

~b-0~
and had a hard time finding open receivers," Grooms said. "It wasn't 
,._,llJ~~~
the offensive line's fault; they did a good job of protecting me. The only 
q,'QJ~~
time the protection broke down was when I couldn't find an open area." The passing game was not how ~ the contest was decided, however. It 
~"3 
was both the strength of Air Force's rushing attack and the weakness of Notre Dame's own that did in the ~ Irish. 
In fact, Air Force halfback jody Simmons out-rushed the entire Irish offense by gaining 14I yards to Notre Dame's 90. 
"Simmons is playing his besrfoot­ball ever this season," DeBerry noted. 
Notre Dame's leading rusher, Al­len Pinkett, carried the ball 22 times for 76 yards. '1110ugh this was Pinkett's best game of.the season, he again failed to reach the elusive I00­yard mark. Pinkett, however, said that he does not feel rushing for I00 yards in a game is very significant. 
"Getting 100 yards doesn't mean anything if you don't win." he said after Saturday's game, adding, "it's not important to me." 






Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 15 
Doonesbury 

Garry Trudeau 
OF GO!), YOU ARE 
UK&AGCXJO UH-OH. 
COUI<5&. A Ff.l.5T-TRACK&R.' 
Gt.RMAN. 70R.TUR.W­

Campus 
•
7-8 p.m. -General Meeting, Angers, France Pro­gram, LaFortune Center, Room 20. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-FUm, "Wild Strawberries," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Film Club, Sl. 

•7 
-10 p.m. -Nuclear Stalemate Telecon­ference, Center for Continuing Education, Free. 

•
7 p.m. -OrganizadonalMeeting, Pi Sigma Alpha Government Honor Society, 118 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
6:30p.m.  16  M•A•s•H  
22  Family Feud  
7:00p.m.  16  1V Bloopers & Practical jokes  
22  Scarecrow & Mrs. King  
28  Call To Glory  
8:00p.m.  16  V ·The Final Battle (Pt II)  
22  Kate & Allie  
28  Football ­Green Bay at Denver  
34  Wonderworks  
8:30p.m.  22  Newhart  
9:00p.m.  22  Cagney & Lacey  
34  Heritage  
10:00 p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
34  Non-Fiction 1V  -America &  Lewis  
Hine  
10:30 p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Simon & Simon/McMillan  
11:00 p.m.  28  Newswatch 28  
34  Movie · Capt. Blood  
11 :30 p.m.  16  Late Night With David Letterman  
28  ABC News Nlghtline  
!2:00a.m.  28  Love Connection  
!2:30a.m.  16  Allin The Family  
1:00 a.m.  22  Nightwatch  

SOHOW'O 
Bloom County 

Psychochicken 
•.. AND As TliE' l~I5H LEI=T THE. ~IE'L..O )iJOTH 
THE. I~ SPIRITS AND HE'A:PS HU~C:r LCNJ ••• 

, GR&AT. THEY ' a;FfiR£[) ME 1Ht/JIHOL& TH&N~REA­AcaxJNT2 


Octavia 
•• • BuT THERe WAS oNe .,.AN WHO COUL..D .STIL..L. 
P~OC.L-1\1~ HIS PltOFOUIJ 
LOVE FO R NOTRf: DAME ... 
;Q-ooo-sy~ 4ERRYJ .I­f &oor>-BYE: C:rt!'~RY, C,.oor>-By£ C:rERRyJ 
\J'Jf10 LOVE: To SEE you Cto 



The Far Side Gary Larson 

"No, thank you. It's o little nutso out there for me right now." 



The Daily Cross-word 

48 Claw 53 Nora's dog 50 Palmerof 54 Report danger ACROSS 38 Speaking 62 Heb. measure 11 Pound, e.g. golf 55 Small case 
publicly 63 Thai or 12 Famed lioness 51 Zodiac 57 Resorts 1 Configuration 40 Public Arabian 13 Facts division 59 Shocking 6 P.O. notices vehicle 64 Dye chemical 19 Jimmy 52 "-evil" fish 
10 Went too 65 Gestures yes 26 Despotic ldi 66 Office worker
fast 

41 More potent 27 Sounded bells
14 Cambria Saturday's Solution 
43 Cylindrical and 

28 Dress style tapering DOWN 29 Shoecord 44 Preside as 30 He loves: Lat. 15 Stagger judge 1 Rapid 31 Comic Kaplan16 Beverage nut 45 Rue 
2 Ho's capital 32 Ritzy17 lifeless 47 Coral ring 3 Report danger 33 Comic Johnson 18 Most dreadful 
4 Coffee pot
20 "Magnum -" 

5 lt. clan 34 Honshu city21 "-the Fall" 
49 Rolls of 36 "Kiss Me-"
name
22 Chin. pagoda 

money 6 Pinball place 37 Yoked beasts 23 Josip Broz 
53 Great respect 24 "-Harry" 56 Hawaiian veranda 39 Sky·dlver's 25 Rio Grande 57 Loose garment 7 Treachery call city 58 Orbiter of 8 Pigweed 42 Told 28 Smelter a kind 9 Winter refuse weather 46 Bending 
©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/15/84
32 Canal nation 60 -·nez 10 Winter tool 

All Rights Reserved
47 Part of 6 A 
35 Honshu port 61 Factual runner 




1111111111111111111 Grand Opening 11111111111111111111
The N.D. Student Activities Board presents 
N.D. T·Shirt Shop
THE FIXX 

in southeast corner ofLaFortune BASEMENT.
opening act: Corey Hart 

Open: Monday and Wednesday 3:00-5:00 Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 1:00-3:00
November 16th at the Notre Dame A.C .C. Tickets on sale TuesdCLy, Oct. 16th 
Call239-5157 for more info. on 
9am-4pm at S.A.B. Record Store and 
our rock bottom prices
S.A.B. ticket window (2nd floor LaFortune) 
-custom designed within one week 
Che~kout
$10 and $11 seats available 

-group discounts 
our stock of colors and sizes.
limit six tickets per person 


~' 
\ ): Monday, October 15, 1984 -page 16 
~. ' ~' 
<.. 
\ ' 
' 
~ By mERON ROBERTS whatever the defense will give us. 
~ Sports Writer "I thought Bart Weiss did an out­standing job at quarterback," contin­
r 
An inspired team from Air Force ued DeBerry. "He's one of the best took advantage ofthe inability ofthe option quarterbacks in the country." Notre Dame defense to stop the Although the Falcons did a fine
' 
wishbone to hand Notre Dame its job of avoiding mistakes in the first 
f'
' 
I 
second straight defeat in Notre half, it appeared that they were al­Dame Stadium Saturday, 21-7. Air most trying to give Notre Dame Force rolled to its third straight vic­every chance to come back and tie tory over Gerry Faust's Irish, and left the game after Air Force built a 14-7 
Notre Dame 3-7 in its last 10 games lead at halftime. at home. Air Force had many opportunities 
Notre Dame often looked to be in to put the game out ofreach, but suf­a state ofdisarray, unable to convert fered the same fumblitis that hin­on any big defensive play to stop the dered Notre Dame earlier in the progress of the Falcons and unable game. to prevent the mistakes that have On its second drive of the third been an Achilles' heel in the three quarter, Air Force took the ball
. ~ 
Irish defeats this season. down to the Notre Dame 23-yard 
The Falcons collected 3 71 yards line before Mike Brown fumbled a on the ground to increase its per­handoff. After three Notre Dame game rushing average of 333 yards, plays and a punt, Tom Rotello of Air and used only six passes during the Force fumbled on a punt return game. when he was hit by Cedric Figaro. 
The Irish looked as ifthey thought The Falcons also moved the ball the football was a hot potato in the within six yards of paydirt to begin first half, fumbling the ball five times, the fourth quarter, but failed to capi­including four mishandled snaps. talize on the scoring opportunity 
'111" ~rv.,r/Pbil D""terS Three of those fumbles came on first when Greg Pshsniak fumbled a pitch Mistakes such as this fumbled snap in the first Roberts has the completegame story at right and a down, which prevented Notre from Weiss. 
half ofSaturday's football game againstAir Force commentary of the students' reaction to the loss Dame from gaining any kind of mo­Notre Dame had many chances to
• 
~ 
were a major cause for Notre Dame's loss. Theron below. mentum to put together a scoring put points. on the board in the drive. · second half. However, on its first The Irish ground game also con­four possessions in the second half,
A clean sweep 

tinued its slump, netting only 90 the ofiense could manage only four yards rushing. This time, however, yards. 
the pa~sing attack was not able to The Irish threatened in the middle pick up the slack in a periodic of the third quarter after the 
\ 

Irish win North Star Tournament 
drizzle which made the field wet. fumbled punt was recovered by Pat By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL "None of the matches went to a ther and senior co-captain Laura Lee Scott Grooms, starting for the Ballage at the Air Force 36-yard line. Sports Writer third set. We won every single beat Butler's Heiwigand Englman, 6-injured Steve Beuerlein, could not However, Grooms threw a pass into 
match and we didn't lose a set," 2, 6-0. In the number-two spot, Col­throw effectively to his receivers coverage for an interception to end 
After failing to win its own invita­Petro said. "When you go unde­ligan and LaFratta won, 6-0,6-4, over and had trouble gripping a slippery that scoring chance. Grooms tional tournament last weekend, the feated in all of those matches, I think the Dayton team of Sara Billingsley ball. finished 12-35 for 117 yardo;, but, Notre Dame women's tennis team that's pulling it off in pretty good and Anne Wenstrup. "They were asking us to throw the even worse, many ofhis passes were 
I ,'' 
traveled to Evansville, Ind., this style." A strong team of Dasso and senior · football," Faust said afterward. "We miserably off target to the intended 
,_ ·~ 
~ ; \ t'' weekend and won the Second An­In singles, the Irish were led by Cathy Schnell provided the lrsih just could nor get the offense going. receivers.
:<s
( ' nual North Star Conference Tourna­junior Sussie Panther in the number­with the best outing overall in the Our line didn't get off the ball, and Early in the fourth quarter, Faust 
'
. ,. ment without losing a single match one singles bracket. Panther tournament. The senior-freshman Air Force controlled the line of elected to go for a first down on a for the second year in a row. knocked off Staci Heiwig of Butler, team lost only one game in the event scrimmage. I don't know ·why our fourth-down play at midfield. Allen 
'' ~(
. ( "We had a perfect record like last 6-1, 6-0, to top her field. before eventually beating Butler's bigger line was controlled by their Pinkett went over the top in his at­
.. /
• 
f,.; year," said Irish head coach Sharon At number two, junior Mary Col­Kim Smith and Maureen Robinson, smaller people." tempt to get the needed six inches,

• 
<;\i Petro. "We had everybody in the ligan was a 6-3, 6-0 winner over 6-0,6-0. Controlling the line wao; exactly but was met by a host of Falcon finals and everybody won." Xavier's Karen Kohl in the finals. "I was pleased with the outing," what Air Force did. In the first half, defenders and was stopped short. 



In the two-day event the Irish Senior co-captain Lisa LaFratta won said Petro. "When you're playing the Falcons totalled 216 yards on the Air Force took the ball from there dominated play and came away with in the third spot. She clinched it with people whom you know, deep down ground. The Notre Dame defense and marched into the Notre Dame the title. In the 27 matches of the a 6-0, 6-2 win over runner-up Elana inside, you don't have to work hard looked as if it had never seen a endzone 14 plays later. Every play of single elimination tournament, Englman ofButler. to beat, then you sometimes lose wishbone formation, as the Air the drive was a running play, and the Notre Dame went untouched in Playing at number five for the your concentration and that makes Force halfbacks were effectively Falcons ate up over six-and-a-half every set. The Irish came close to Irish, junior lzzy O'Brien beat Mary the day a little bit more difficult. blocking the Irish defenders minutes of time, giving Notre Dame losing only once as sophomore Longstaff, 6-l, 6-1, for her title. Petro, who said she was pleased downfield. The first eight option very little time to mount a com­JoAnne Biafore was down 0-5 to Freshman Michelle Dasso took the with the improved play by her plays for Air Force netted 103 yards. eback. Jodie jordan ofXavier in the finals of singles title for the sixth spot by doubles squad, also said she was . "Our line did a great job of block­"The key play in the game was the number-four singles. Biafore, downing Dayton's Kim Stickney, 6-pleased to see a little more aggres­ing those trees Notre Dame has up when Pinkett got stopped on fourth however, came back to win that set, 4,6-2. siveness on the part of her team in front," Falcon head coach Fisher down," Faust said. "We just couldn't 7-S, and the next, 6-2, to continue In doubles the Irish attack was DeBerry said. "We were decisively
see TENNIS, page 11 see IRISH, page 13
the Irish onslaught. equally strong. In the top spot, Pan-outsized, but played tough. We do 



.' ' ' 
Students' actions show lack of support for football team 
Notre Dame fans showed what kind of people they are 
he did not think to change the defensive formation in order again Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium in the disappointing Theron Roberts to slow down the Air Force running game. Instead, it loss to Air Force. looked as ifNotre Dame was totally surprised by what Air 
Sure, football is the main diversion from classwork in the Force did on the field. The Irish did make some adjust­
Sports Writer · 
fall for students, and when the football team loses, South ments to try to stop the option by the Falcons, but the Bend gets a lot less tolerable. The question was just raised attempts were futile. not too long ago about the insignificance of playing at Faust keeps contending that the team will be all right. He Notre Dame Stadium and how the Irish no longer could keeps telling his players who are making mistakes not to claim a home-field advantage. Dame. Why is it so hard to resign ourselves to the notion worry about them. 
Do you call the people in attendance in the game against that the Notre Dame football team is not nearly as good as Anyone can see that everything is not all right. Nobody the Falcons the hometown faithful? How can anyone claim people think? Ifwe admit as much, we could maintain our can expect the Irish to win all of their remaining games, to be an Irish supporter and participate in the rousing image as a loyal student body that thinks being good sports and that is the only way for this season to be salvaged in cheers in the second half for Air Force, and booing the is just as important as winning. terms of wins and losses. Instead of a pat on the back, performance of the Notre Dame players coming of the It used to be that teams would concede defeat when maybe the coaches are going to have to give players a kick field? The display was nothing less than shameful. they played Notre Dame. Now our opponents know that in the behind. 
Something is definitely wrong with the way the team is Notre Dame is not invincible anymore. They know that if No one is more aware than Gerry Faust that there arc a performing, and it is probably the fault ofhead coach Gerry they have a good game, there is a good chance of winning. lot ofpeople who would like to see him step down from his Faust and the rest ofthe coaches. Most people do not think Many teams seize the opportunity to win over the Irish and job. that the players are doing anything wrong, rather they are more than a few have been successful in the last three But the students are not going to be able to change out on the field doing their best. But these players are years. anything. Look at the alcohol policy. All of the rallies did hearing all of the boos. I would not expect them to play It is very obvious that something needs to be changed. not change things. Now, football is the same thing. Maybe hard for people who do not appreciate their efforts. Our offensive scheme has been solved by the opposing we should try something else to show displeasure since no 
Granted, this was the "do-or-die" game for the Irish. But, teams and the players cannot do anything about it. The one is backing the team as true fans would anyway. Why plain and simple, Notre Dame was outplayed and out· Irish can consider themselves lucky to have scored at all not boycott the games? That would really show them. coached and lost as a result. Now, many people who had against Air Force. It came on a risky fourth-down pass that But maybe things will not improve. Are the students maintained confidence in the football team and Faust was thrown among three Falcon defenders. At other times going to continue to lower themselves? We complain through the first three seasons of drought are becoming the offense sputtered behind a backup quarterback who about other teams like Miami that show very little class on impatient waiting for things to turn around. They are won­must not have been prepared by his coaches to throw the the field. What about in the stands? I might expect this from dering when the Irish will start winning some games. passes he wa., asked to put up in the game. the crowd at a state school, but not at Notre Dame. 
The behavior of the fans was very much unlike Notre Faust admitted in the post-game press conference that Isn't it true that football is still just a game? 


