Wheel of Fortune -page 3 

~8 
VOL XVIII, NO. 81$ tht: indt:pt:mknt ~tudt:nt new~papt:r ~lT\·ing notn damt: and ~aint mary·., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1984 

Bertino, David elected student body leaders 
Win called a landslide; Engler gets 20 percent 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE Alternative as an official write-in News Editor ticket Monday night, as dictated by the Student Government constitu­
Rob Bertino and Cathy David tion. The 'iPproval was necessary be­carried all but four dorms yesterday cause Engler and Dardis failed to on their way to what some officials submit a required petition before are calling a "landslide" victory in the deadline set down by the Om­the race for student body president budsman's office. and vice president. Write-in votes not approved by 
They captured 54 percent of the the senate are not counted, accord­electorate, more than twice the vote ing to election rules. About 30 write­for either of the other two tickets. in votes for "Chapin andJohn" were Chris Tayback and Kelly Fitzgerald not counted because the senate ap­received 26 percent, winning only proved only the phrase, "The Al­their home dorms, and the write-in ternative." ticket of Chapin Engler and John "I was doing something," Engler Dardis received 20 percent. said last night. "They (the senators) 
The voter turnout was 55.1 per­were very fair. I feel I've already cent, the lowest in at least four years. won." 
Bertino last night thanked "my Bertino and David's victory was campaign manager. Dave l\1cAvoy, the first time in five years that a and all my supporters too numerous three-candidate race did not end up to mention." He said Tayhack and in a runoff. "This is in my opinion a Fitzgerald were "very deserving and landslide," Ombudsman Andy Tuck­competitive." er said. "Fifty-four percent in a three­
But the interesting twist of this person race is a landslide." year's election was the last-minute "That's the important thing: To campaign of Engler and Dardis -know that we really represent the "The Alternative," the first official people," David said last night. "We write-in candidates for SBP and are happy they have this much faith SBVP. in us." 
The Alternative overwhelming Bertino and David, who take carried Dillon Hall -Engler's home office April l, lost only four districts. dorm -and lost Grace Hall to Ber­They did especially well in their tino and David by two votes. The home dorms of Alumni and Breen­ticket also won Off-Campus, where Phillips. Tayback easily carried his Dardis lives. home dorm, Holy Cross, ·and 
"The Alternative added a new Fitzgerald won Farley, her dorm. Ho­dimension to the election," Bertino ly Cross and Farley were the only said. "It really generated a lot of in­dorms they won. terest. They gave a strong, honest Bertino, who was endorsed Mon­campaign, and I appreciate the im­day by The Obseroer, said he is partiality the Student Senate showed looking forward to the future school toward Englerand Dardis's request" 
The Student Senate approved The see SBP, page 3 
Election Tally 
SBP/SBVP 
~Berti no/David Tayback/Fitzgerald Engler/Dardis 

District 1 
~Paul Healy_ Doug Wurth 

District 2 
~Pat Browne Doug O'Brien 

District 3 
~Dan McNamara Mark Rolincik 

District 4 
r/rom Abood 

District 5 
~Javier Oliva 
Percent 
54.0 
26.0 
20.0 
57.7 42.3 
70.4 29.6 
76.2 
23.8 
100 
100 


Number 
2232 1074 
828 
567 415 
685 
288 
783 245 
706 
239 

juniors Rob Bertino and Cathy David hug each in celebration of their election as student body other last night at the second floor ofLaFortune president and r•ice president. 




Senate elections all prove lopsided 
by BUD LUEPKE I would win." Healy said his late start Doug (O'brien) is a good politicia t n," News Staff campaigning may have hurt, but Browne said. visiting nearly 800 rooms over the Junior Dan McNamara easily 
All of yesterday's Student Senate last weekend helped a great deal, he defeated freshman Mark Rolincik, 
elections produced landslide vic­said. collecting 76.2 percent of the vote 
tories as candidates in two districts Despite the loss, Wurth was in District 3 (Badin, Dillon, Fisher, 
ran unopposed and freshmen can­pleased the results. "As a freshman I Howard, Lyons, Morrissey, 
didates in two others could not had an uphill battle. I expected Pangborn and Carroll). 
match the appeal oftheir upperclass about 30 to 40 percent of the vote," Rolincik said he was at a disad­competition. Wurth said. vantage because he was a freshman, District 1 (Alumni, Walsh, Lewis, The District 2 (Breen-Phillip, but said, "I was pleased with the Sorin, St. Ed's, and Holy Cross) Cavanaugh, Zahm, Farley, Keenan votes I did get." produced the closest senate race of and Stanford) senate election McNamara was unavailable for the five. Junior Paul Healy defeated proved more one-sided. Sophmore comment. 
Freshman Doug Wurth. Healy pulled Pat Browne defeated Junior Doug In Districts 4 and 5 there was no 
in 57.7 percent of the vote to O'brien by capturing 70.4 percent of contention for either senate seat. 
Wurth's 42.3 percent. the vote to O'brien's 29.6 percent. Junior Tom Abood will take the post 
"It was a good fight, " said Healy Browne was relieved after the 
for District 4 ( Flanner, Grace, PW after the election. "I was worried, election. "I was never sure about the and PE), and Javier Olivia will but in the back ofmy mind I thought results. It was tough campaigning. 
represent District 5 (Off-campus). 


Bishop criticizes female stereotypes 
By ROBERT SIENKIEWICZ Church and that many times he has he said. a situation in which one News Staff been at gatherings of clerics where group is so wdl organized that it is remarks degrading women have bound to work to the detriment of 
Bishop Thomas ). Gumbleton of flown freely. another group. Efforts must be made Cleveland said there is "an underly­He continued to say that to exert the rights of the oppressed. ing attitude ofdisdain and disregard American women earn only 62 cents and the oppressor must change, he of women in our church," speaking for every dollar that men make and said. to a receptive audience in the library that the Church is just as guilty of The first communities were those auditorium Monday. discriminating against women as in­ofdisciples ofJesus, which consisted 
He said this attitude is reinforced dustry is. of both men and women, said within the Church by the stereotype He singled out the consistent use Gumblcton. and Jesus made no dis­that men are inherently superiorand of the masculine form in prayers as tinction between the sexes. women are inferior, passive, and uni­one problem that needs correcting. ntelligent. Women in any type ofministry are Gumbleton suggested several 
Gumbleton said that the Church is very frustrated, Gumbleton said. For points that should be included if speaking out on the sad situation of example, a woman chaplain justice toward women is to be women in the world, quoting Pope becomes frustrated because al­brought about in the Church. He John Paul II's words, "Human and though she can console, she must said that one should imitate the at­personal dignity is no different, call a priest if the patient wants to titudes and the actions ofJesus. The whether in man or woman." Al­make a confession. affirmation ofthe ministry ofwomen though the statements are noble, Gumbleton quoted from new in the church must be realized. The Gumbleton said, their actual Canon Law to show that women are language ofthe litergy must be made practice in the church leaves some­excluded from it, and said that the inclusive. Finally, the position of thing to be desired. structure of decision making in the women in the church must be 
He said that women are treated as church is exclusive to men. raised; for example, the cardinalate second-class citizens in the Catholic We are dealing with a social sin, could be opened to women. 
Wednesday, February 15, 1984-page 2
The Observer 


In Brie£ 

Injured in a hit-and-runaccident early Saturday morning onJuniper Road was sophomore TimothyJ McDowelL The Flanner resident reported leaving his rom about an hour earlier to take a walk and was in the crossing lane between Grace Hall and the student parking lot when hit. He was treated and released at St. Joseph Mt·dical Center. The only description of the vehicle, from a witness about 200 feet away, was of a "large American-made" car. McDowdl is in the College of Business Administration and is one of three members of his family currently attending Notre Dame. In an­other incident reported to campus security at 3 a.m. Saturday, a fifth­year architecture student reported he was struck in the face by one of three men who accosted him near the Architecture Building. 
Jamt·s Schellinger of University Village said no words were ex­changed and he believed he was the victim of mistaken identity. ­
The Obsen•er 

And One more makeS 98. University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will up his world-record collection of honorary dt·grees to 9H this spring when he addresses Saint Leo Col­lq~t-'s (Saint Leo, Fla.) 25th graduating class. Saint Leo President Thomas Southard called Hesburgh "a humanitarian with interests of international purport." Hesburgh was awarded the degree by the college's board of trustees in recognition of his achievements in t·ducation and international issues. -The Observer 
A proposed constitutional amendment which 
would allow two Student Union commissioners to serve on the Stu­dt·m Senate met with disapproval at Monday night's senate meeting. Two-thirds of the hall councils must approve an ammendment to initiate it. "The topic will be brought up again at next week's mc..Tting," said Assistant Student Ac..-tivities DirectorJoni Neal. -The Obsert•er 
Michael Burnett, a Notre Dame government major, will be an intern with li.S. Senator Richard G. Lugar (R-Ind.) this st•mestt·r. Burnett, 21, of Highland, Calif., participated in the Ireland program during his sophomore year. "I am very pleased to have Mike with my staff for this st·mester," said Lugar. "He is a bright and en­thusiastic student, and should learn a great deal about american govt·rnment while he is here."-The Obsen•er 
A pickup truck collided with a bicycle riden by sophomore Thomas McDonald early Monday morning, causing minor injuries to the cyclist, but he refused emergency treatment. The Sorin resident was riding south on Notre Dame Avenue and appart:ntly disregarded the traffic signal, according to Police Cpl. Ronald Garrabrant. He was struck by a truck driven by Bruce Schwind ofSouth Bend. -The Obsen1er 
Notre Dame's Department of Physics 
has received a SS,OOO research grant from the Ford Motor Company. The award will be usc..·d during the current academic year and is rc..·newabk for another two years. According to Dr. John Dow, Freimann Professor of Physics, the grant will go toward the develop­ment of a graduate research program in solid-state phyiscs. -The Obsen•er 
Of Interest 
. p .,

LUCtanO avorattt S and Placido Domingo's opera coach, Joan Dornemann, will be at Saint Mary's on Feb. 25 to teach a master class in voice. Dornemann is assistant conductor and promptor for the Metropolitan Opera Association in New York City. Tht• workshop will be from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. with a 90 minute lunch break. Persons interestnl in attending should call Carol Belland in the Saint Mary's music department. -The Obsert•er 
Financial Aid deadlines for Saint Mary's students arc..· as fi>llows: the 19.H4-HS Financial Aid Priority is due March I. Student Employmc..·nt Application is due April I, and the Guaranteed Student Loan-First Semester Priority is due July I. -The Obsen•er 

,Weather 

Partly sunny and mildtoday. High in mid and upper "iOs. Increasing doudiness tonight with a 20 percent chance of rain toward morning. Low in upper 50s or low 40s. Agood chance ofrain tomorrow. High in upper 40s or low SOs. -The Obsen•er 
The Observer 
Tht· Obst·rver (I >I~ ~')') 2-·1000) b puhlbheU \1ond..t.y through l'riday and 
on honw foolho:ll "'-atun.lap.. l'xn·pl dunng t.:xam and ,·ou.:ation pl·rioli~ The Ohst.·rvt·r i~ puhl•~lu·d hy lht.· !'ttmlt.·nl~ ()f tlu-I'nin·r~itr of Notrl· Dantl' .md Saint ~I an·~ <.ollq.~l'. Suh~t.·riptlon~ mar ht· purdlil~l·d for S2:c; pl'r )'t.'ar ( $1 c; pt.·r -.·m<·>t<·r) h)' wrilin)! The Ob•erver, P 0 Box(..}. Notrl· DanK, Indiana ·l6')';6. 
The Observer is a nu·mh<·rufThe As­sociated Pres.-.. All rl·production rl~hl~ an:' rt.·st·rn·d 

Today's issul' was produt"t'd hy: 
ProcltKtion C'oiiSU/ttllll .......Stt..'\'t.' Fostt:r /)eSi}(ll Editor.. ...................... ~ll!'t.illl O'Hara l.t!J'UIIl Staff. .. ..................... l.iz <arroll 1)•pes,•tters. .......knnift:r Uigou. Mil:hdk Famu N,•u•s Editor.... ....... Mary Ikaly 
CopJ' l:'ditur... ....................... Kl"\'in Bingt:r SjJfJrts CoJ~J' Fditnr.-:-;;.... . ....... Phil \\'olf l'ieu•pointl.t~J'Olll .... . .....Tom Sapp F(•tllures CopJ• l:"tlitor...... .....Jt-rry Young F(•atures l.t~J'tJII/ ............. Sarah llamilton ND DtiJ' litlilur... .............. llarhara S!ncn> SMC: !Jar Eclitur. . .....Jmh· llatlkr PbotoJ,:rapher...... .....................Carol <;au:s 



Senate and senators need a drastic overhaul 
The most recent statistics have arrived. A list of 
leading political indicators shows that interest in either 
running or voting for student government has hit the 
lowest mark in years. 
Consider these individual statistics: 

• 
Out of the more than 1,SOO residents of the Tower Quad -Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla East and Pasquerilla West halls-only one candidate emerged to run for the senate seat in District 4. Four potential candidates showed up at the first meeting, but none of them returned for the second mandatory meeting. Tom Abood showed up, and last night he won. · 

• 
None of the candidates for Student Senate was a woman. 

• 
Only one student declared his candidacy for senator in the off-campus district, that hot-bed ofpolitical inac­tivity. 

• 
No more than two students ran against each other in any of the races, except the late entry of "The Al­ternative," a questionable presidential ticket. 



Mark Worscheh 
t•iews-~ditor 
Inside Wednesday, 

Not taking a strong stand compounds the senate's problem of not being able to legislate, only recom­mend. 
Ombudsman Andy Tucker agrees the lack of interest in the senate stems from its unclear role. "A lot of the qualified people who otherwise might run for senate run for hall or class office because it's easier to get in­volved and is usually more rewarding," he says. 
"l still think the senate is searching for a definite place in the University hierarchy. They have never achieved 
what they were set up to 
be," Tucker says, adding that 
• 
For the first time in years, there will be no need for a runoff. 

• 
Only 55.1 percent of the student body botpered to vote, down from 65 percent last year. 


These statistics indicate that either no one heard about the deadlines for declaring one's candidacy or no one thinks that student government is worth the ef­fort. 
The Obsen•er printed two briefs and ran two ads reminding candidates of im­


portant upcoming meetings. 
In addition, the Om­

budsman Service posted reminders of meeting times 
and petition deadlines in all of the halls on campus and 
in LaFortune and in public buildings for off-campus stu­
dents. 

Any qualified candidate should have seen even one of 
these notices or had the initiative to call Ombudsman 
or Student Government to find out. 

The apparent n·ason behind the lack of candidates, 
then, is that few students were interested in the job. 
In the minds of many students, student government 
service is an odd cross between altruism and the ul­
timatl: resume stuffer. Students assume that govern­
ment must be doing something, but more often they 
wonder why student government hasn't done anything. 
Why, for example, didn't it raise the Golden Dome with 
screams of outrage concerning the aborted attempt to 
shut down hall food sales last year? Why did the Student 
Senate wait until January to establish a committee to 
recommend solutions to the alcohol problem? 
**~************** 

senators currently serve as 
"glorified  special  projects  
coordinators."  
Another  image  problem  

results from student govern­ment accomplishments going by unnoticed because senators do not know how to play the political game. Real politicians don't attend ground-breakings for their health, nor do they cut rib­bons for practice. Elected of­ficials stage these events to show that government indeed has done something. The media find these events 
much easier and more excit­
ing to cover than simple press releases, however contrived the media events may be. 
Nonetheless, the public equates the accomplishment with the elected official. Safe to say, senators would do well for both their political careers and for govern­ment's repuration ifthey would take advanrage ofmedia coverage on campus. 
And more senators could take a lesson from SBP-elect Rob Bertino by sending newsletters to constituents. Sen. Bob Riley sent me a Jetter yesterday asking me to vote for Bertino -the only time I've heard from him all year. 
Student government needs to find some way to reor­ganize so that the senate can become an effective body and so students can see student government ac­complishments as more than just chance. 
~ tsuy : ~~-------~ioas" ccccccc--.r.;eo--.r~, 
t : ~ The most exciting weekend of your 8§ ~ Observer : ~ Senior Year is fast approaching § it : § THE 1984 SENIOR FORMAL ~ t ClaSSifiedS: § Aprll13-14 at the Palmer House In Chicago 8 
...**************** § We guarantee the Weekend will be filled with §8 ~ Fun Times, Great Dancing, and Plenty to ~ 
Tired of just hanging 

8 Reminisce about. ~ 
8 More Info Coming Soon J
around late at night? 


Qr..r...A:lO"".r..r..o-~..o-.r.r.;eo--.r..r.r..o-...cr.r...cr.r.r~~-~~--------...c., 
Join THE OBSERVER Production Department and discover a reason to stay awakn!!! 
A limited number of nighttime layout employees are being hired for next semester. No previous experience required_ Stop by the LaFortune office for an application and info_ 



The Observer Wednesday, February i 5, 1984 --page 3 

Business students win national championship in Virginia competition 
By MIKE MILLEN 
News Staff 
Last Thursday, the four Notre Dame students who left for the Third Annual Mcintire Commerce Invitational expected to do reasonably welL "Doing well" is not quite the same as winning a national title, but that is exactly what they did. 
Coached by Professor David Nor­burn, the team of Kelly Frank, Brian Ledley, Greg Testerman, and Steve Wilkie proved that nothing is impos­sible when one combines talent, dedication, and superior coaching. 
The Notre Dame contingent un­seated reigning champ University of Washington in the only under­graduate business case study com­petition ofits kind in America. 
The new champs beat out some of the nation's top business schools; the Universities of North Carolina, ness Week, and a manager from General Electric were just some of the notables who judged the com­petition. 
The teams were each given ados­sier on a certain ailing company and had to develop a plan to save it. This year, the rapidly expanding mail or­der industry was the subject. 
Instead ofstressing textbook solu­tions, Norburn coached the team from more of a "real-world" perspective. Wilkie cites the Notre Dame strategy as being "sensible versus flashy." He points ou t t that one school came with ten textbooks and a Hewlett-Packard computer. By comparison, Notre Dame used no books and did calculations on a simple hand-held calculator. 
Because the proposals were to be impIemen t ted by the owner of the company instead of a machine, Tes­terman stressed that the solution not only had to look good on paper, but 

Thl-OhsL·rn:r/<.arol (iall's 
Rocking on the quad 

in front ofNieuw/and Science Hall. Members of Par 3, a band ofNotre Dame students, gave an the band (from left to right) are Tim Keyes, Rob outdoor performance last night by the fountain Bayne,]im Keyes and Scott O'Grady. 
California at Berkeley, Wisconsin, and Virginia by combatting their Hewlett-Packard computers and textbook approaches with common sense. 
Adding prestige to the competi­tion is the high caliber of judges. Corporate executive officers from two Fortune 500 companies, the Corporate Strategy Editor of Busi­
night with about 20 supporters at the Irish Gardens flower shop in the basement of LaFortune Student Cen­ter. David, the manager of Irish Gar­dens who battled Valentine's Day continuedfrom page 1 flowers and a student body election 
on the same day, thanked the sup­year, and he plans on investigating a porters who helped themselves to few ideas that were brought up by champagne, beer and cake. the other candidates. "Some of the The 2 i -year-old half of the Ber-ideas:.brought up by The Alternative ' tino/David ticket spent the rest of were very good and we'd like to use the night celebrating at Senior Bar. them." he said. David said she was sorry she 
SBP 
Betltino and David celebrated last couldn't go. Tidman was invited to appear on 
~~}M(i)I80_U_3!11 !II II 



I g~;:n~e~c~ . 
1 ffie 8nchantwent 
1 that~ • • • • • 
I 

U. of Notre Dame
Come sec us at the ... 
* 

East Bank Emporium Building ~ . 
E 
0• 
!: 
i 

Across the river from Century Center Niles and Jefferson at the Brid e 

HOURS: 1 0·5:30 M· Thurs 

1o.g Fri-Sat 219·232·8488 11:30-4Sun 
it had to be workable in the framework ofthe company as well. 
For all of their efforts, the team was rewarded with a plaque and a guaranteed place at next year's com­petition. For the competitors, however, the honor of winning was enough. Wilkie sums up: "The prestige of the competition is more important than anything else." 
I 


WbtlI 
Student wins on 'Wheel ofFortune' 
By MIRIAM HRL 
News Staff 
If"The Wheel of Fortune" con­tinues to shell out bucks to Notre Dame students at this pace, the game show is going to become Notre Dame's biggest donator ever. Graduate student Paul Tidman returned from a January appearance on the game show with $27,728 in prizes, including a Cadillac Eldorado he is not going to keep. 
As a student supporting a family of four on a small stipend, Tidman is relieved that his "Wheel ofFortune" winnings have brought him a certain degree offinancial stability. He plans to sell the Eldorado, buy a sinaller car and save the rest ofthe money. 
:tmtnle I 3anlt 1..••...• 
A Browser's I Paradise of I 
Unique Gifts 
Handcr-afted Itzms Decorative Accessories Artwork Toys Games Something for Everyone Brass Crystal 
Pewter Dolls Nearly one third of our gifts are especially made 
for us by outstanding artists and craftsmen from every state. 
the show in California after he par­ticipated in the "Wheel of Fortune" competition at Notre Dame. Al­though he was not guaranteed a spot on the show and had to pay his own way to California t . Tidman decided to take a chance. He traveled for four days on a train to reach California. 
After waiting two tension-filled days, Tidman was finally informed that he would definitely appear on "Wheel of Fortune." On the after­noon of January 31st, Tidman arrived at the studio where makeup artists promptly prepared him for the show. Then, "Wheel of Fortune" employees read the rules to the con­testants. Interestingly enough, Tid­man declares, "They ("Wheel of Fortune" employees) kept us (contestants) isolated from one an-

Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet Startingjanuary 11th 
Every Wednesday it's Mama Marriott's Italian Buffet in the Looking GlasS Restaurant. A "buon gusto" array of antipasta, minestrone, fettucine, cacciatore, lasagne, pasta with four sauces, cheese, breads and desserts. It's all served up in a festive Italian atmosphere-checkered table cloths, a strolling musidan, -the works. 
Every Wednesday 5:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. All you can eat for $9.50. Children under 12 S4.75. 
$1.00 Off 
Each adult's Wednesday night Mama Marriott Italian Buffet purchased. One. ooupon per table only. Offer expires May 2, 1984 
SOUTH BEND~Qffiott® 
123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
other. We were even escorted to the 
bathroom." 
Tidman describes himself as "emotionally wiped out" by the time the show was actually taped. He therefore remained calm during the show and was able to guess such phrases as ''Julie Andrews" and "Little Orphan Annie and Daddy Warbucks." 
During the first round, Tidman won $3,000 but hit bankrupt when he spun the wheel during the third round. At the end of the three rounds, Tidman had accum t ulated over S4,000 worth of merchandise including a gift certificate from American Express, a nineteen-inch color television. a food dehydrator, and a Tappan range with a microwave. 
Wednesday, February 15, 1984-page 4 
The Observer 

HPC discusses lack of intellectual life on campus, suggests solutions 
By STEPHEN REIDY 
Neu•sStaff 

"In my ~ophomore Core course, to say anything of any intdlectual depth was the worst thing you could do." This comment from Chris Tayback was one of the stronger opinions voiced ahout the intdlec· tual lift: on campus at the llall Presi· dent's Council mec:ting last night. Sc.-vt·ral Council members agreed that a mc.-dium for intdkctualism was not witksprc:ad c.-nough at Notre Dame. 
lntt:llecrual stimulation on campus was diSt·ussed in a debate kd by Studc:nt Body Subcommitte on University Curriculum member Pt·ggy Provoznik. 
"In our dorm the educational 

Internal audit criticizes land reforms 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -While Reagan 
administration officials were giving 
Congress a largely upbeat report on 
El Salvador's land reform last month, 
government auditors privately were 

warning that the future: of the program -a cornerstone of U.S. policy there: -is bleak. 
The internal li.S. audit, dated Jan. IH, claimt·d that despite somt· suc­cesses, most farm cooperatives creatnl untkr the tlrst phase: of the: land reform program "arc: not tlnan· dally viable:." 
The: audit said many of the coopnativt·s ''had massive capital dd1t, no working capital, large: tracts of land that were: non-productive, substantially larger labor forces than were nt·nkd to operatt· the units. and weak management." 
"The: li.H u rt· of Phase: cooperatives St'l'ms bkak without li.mlwr suhstantial rdorms. Most ... an· not producing ~ufficient income to he viahk organizations." 
Tht· audit, preparnl by the lnspec· tor General's office at tht· U.S. Agency for lntemational lkvclop­mt·nt, also cited serious probkms in the so-calkd "land·to·thc:·tiller" program, under which land wa~ givt·n to peasants who had previous· ly rented tlelds from large Ian· downt·rs. 
speakers draw no one," noted Pa~4uerilla East president Carrie Al­tergott. Altergott, a pre-med, also exprt·ssed disappointment in the fact that she has "never had a class under 20 students except f(>r Fresh­man Seminar. How can you develop a teacher-student relationship?" 
Her frustr.ttion over classes that are "too big" was shared by Cavanaugh President Owen Murray. "There's no discussion in them," he said, adding that "you don't stim· ulate people through lectures, you stimulate them through 4uestions." 
Informal mixers with the faculty, 
the "take your teacher to lunch" 
program and happy hours all 
received note as good ways to im­
prove faculty-student contact. 
However, the real problem' with in· 
telkctualism here was seen by some 
as rooted in the make-up and goals of 
Notre Dame students themselves. 

Notrt: Dame has a "more all around student body," said Pangborn president Greg Crawford. "There's more to learning than just academics" concurred BobJohnson, president of Zahm. "Kids here are the common sense type:." 
One suggestion for improving the mental environment here was to invite those students from each dorm who are involved in interests such as plays, . Latin American politics and Right to Life to speak in their halls. A change in the atmos· phere "has to come from wthin, from those who are enthusiastic," said Badin President Dorothy David. 
The topic of wasted energy on campus was also brought up at the meeting. A representative of the stu· dent Environmental Concerns Or· ganization ( ECO) noted that many classrooms arc too hot, their win­dows having to be left open in the winter. ECO plans to go to Main­tainance and to the Administration for discussion if results from forthcoming campus surveys are numerous enough. 
The first An Tostal organizational meeting will take place this Sunday at 7: I 5 p.m. in the library auditorium. Everyone is invited to attend and help out. Also, the spring mens' softball tourname t nt will tenatively begin two weeks after spring break. Each hall enters one team, the winner r t ecdving $100. Hall presidents will have informa· tion. 
The women of Breen-Phillips have challenged the men of Keenan to an aerobics contest this Thursday to get "revenge for the abuse they received in the Keenan Revue," according to hall president Cathy David. The contest will be at 7 p.m. in the basement. 
ShareThe Viatorian 


VISION 

The promi'c ofChri't. "The Kingdom ofGod," i' now 'lh believe in that promise is the hedrock ,,r the Viatonan vision. A' a V1atorian. you would he in a 'earching. growing community ol brother' and prie't'. We arc dcd1catcd to 'Jlrcading the Christian way of lite through education and pa,toralmini,try. 
for more information write or call: Re,. Joseph Lof'y, C.S. \'. Director of Vocation' NDU 651 West Roscoe, Chicago, Illinois 60657 (312) 525·7733 
Plea":-'end more information immediately: Namc: ________Agc ____ 
Addrcs' City 
Education____ 
.lp ___

State 

lb~ Observer/Carol Gain

Casting the ballots 
Badin Hall residentsjackie Bernard mzd Maura Mast monitor the voting for their dorm in yesterday's election for student body president and vicepresident and Student Senate representatives. 
The Institute for 
ParalegalTraining
works. 
So doits graduates. 
Four months of intensive training can add market value to your college degree. 
A sampling of jobs our graduates hold: LEGISLATIVE RESEARCHER, MUN[CIPAL BOND PARALEGAL, REAL ESTATE MARKETING DIRECTOR, ESTATES & TRUSTS LEGAL ASSISTANT, ENERGY SPECIALIST, ANTITRUST SPECIALIST, CORPORATE BENEFITS PLANNER, ENVIRONMENTAL LAW SPECIALIST 
• 
Through our corporate contacts, our national search team and our computenzed placement service, we have placed over 5,000 of our graduates m law firms, banks and corporations nationwide. 

• 
You can specialize in one of seven areas of the law. 

• 
All courses include training in computer applications to legal practice. 

• 
If we cannot secure a job for you in the city of your choice, we provide a substantial tUition refund. 

• 
Financial aid and housing are available. 


We'll be at your campus on February 29 Contact your placement office to see our resource book on law-related careers and to arrange for a group presentation or a personal interview. 
r---------------
Mau this coupon to: RUND
To learn more, call collect: 
I The Institute for Paralegal Training, 
(215) 567-4811. Or, return 
1 1926 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103
the coupon. 

I Please send a free copy of your catalogue. 
THE INSJTIUfE I~8:hlladelphia D Houston FOR PARAJ..EGA.L 
I Address-----------­TRAINING I City-----State __ Zip---­
Philadelphia

Houston I College tyr. ol good.) J Phone 
I· 
I
1 
I1 1 
1 
I 
I 

L---------------------~-----~8::~02: __-:~::~:_ _______J 

A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student for the 
Distinguished Student Award 
lS 

Friday, February 17 
Created and presented by the Notre Dame Alumni Association, the award recipient will be selected based on service to Notre Dame, community involvement and good academic standing. 
Nomination forms are available in the Student Government Office in LaFortune, the Center for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 
BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL 
Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee, the renowned acting team of Broadway and Hollywood will be speaking and reading selected 
> ,,

works on February 16, 7 p.m. 
·.t r 
.. IJ;

at the Library Auditorium. ·l 
·.j 

•.tiUh,,,) I.J'At:.Jii :)I!J Ull.• 'Jf·). 
Wednesday, February 15, 1984 -page 5
Vieweoint 
A fantasy, nofa defense policy 
The American people' have a healthy fear of over five years. nuclear weapons. This fear causes them to The notion of absolute security -protec­urge national leaders to use caution in interna-tion from all hostile forces -is childlike. As tiona! affairs, especially when the prospect of we mature, our desire for security continues, nuclear confrontation with the Soviet Union but we learn that there are no absolutes in life; looms as a possibility. It also prompts the there are always risks. Our security depends public to press for arms reduction negotia-upon how well we manage to live with those tions. risks. 
President Reagan understands this fear. But President Reagan is using childlike reason­ing to fashion a national defense policy. He suggests that space-based weapons systems
C. Maxwell Stanley 
can free us from the forces which threaten us. Foundations A more mature reading of the situation indi­cated that the President's scheme offers no 
instead ofrespecting it and working to reduce 
security at all. tensions between East and West, he suggests First, even the most enthusiastic supporters 
that an accelerated arms race -one which admit that space-based antiballistic missile carries the US-Soviet arms rivalry into space (ABM) systems are decades away; others -is the answer to our fears. 
doubt they will ever work. What is to happen In his "Star Wars" speech he called on "the in the intervening years? scientific community in our country, those 
Such diverse sources as former defense 
who gave us nuclear weapons ...to give us secretary Harold Brown and MIT physicist the means of rendering these nuclear Kosta Tsipis suspect the Soviet Union will weapons impotent and obsolete." In his fiscal work on measures to counter the space 
1985 budget, he has allocated S2 billion for weapons, rendering them obsolete before research on these weapons -S24 billion they are deployed. 
Ann Flanders gives advice to readers 
DearAnn Flanders, DearAnn Flanders, 
My brother is cruel to my sister, my sister What do you think about the morality of 
hates my mother, my mother doesn't much pre-marital sex? Is it really all that wrong if care for my father, and my father dislikes my two people love each other? brother. Frolicking with my Rance 
Somehow I just can't be bad like the rest of DearFrolicker, my family. There's something inside me I don't think I'm in favor ofit, but let me call which makes me good, and I can't stand it. my good friend Father Theodore Hesburgh, Ann if there is a God, why does God let so C.S.C. to make sure. I'll get back to you. much good exist? 
Sorrowful in Seattle DearSorrowful, 
Wow, I feel sorry for you. But this question DearAnn Flanders, is a bit out of my field of expertise. I studied Are you planning on doing any more ads in ethical philosophy in college, not epistemol­bathtubs like you used to? ogy. AnxiouslyAwaiting 
Alas, my good friend, Father Theodore Hes­Dear Anxious, No, Father Theodore Hes­burgh, C.S.C. knows a bit more about the burgh thought it was so inappropriate the last subject. So I asked him why, and he says it has time I did it, I resolved never to do such an something to do with free will. advertisement again. 
Do you understand? 
Dear Ann Flanders, 

Keith Picher 
What does your good friend Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. think about yourProfundity's demise getting a divorce and never talking to your sis­
ter, Abigail Van Bluren? 

Hardly a Hypocrite DearAnn Flanders, My wife and I have had Dear Hypocrite, 
trouble with our sex lives lately. After being Well, he's really not that good a friend of very sick, she had to have an amputation from mine, and he's got no business butting into my the ribs down. I still love her, but our marriage personal life. I don't think he minds though. 
isn't quite the same. Should I dump her? 
Perplexed in Pittsburgh Dear Perplexed, DearAnn Flanders, 
If you really love her you ought to think Why don't you just let Father Theodore about staying with her. Ever think of, well how Hesburgh write your columns for you? should I put this, having sex with yourself? ADumbDomer 
DearDumb Domer, 

Since you are from the University of Notre DearAnn Flanders, Dame, I am sure you know how busy Father 
My friend and I have made a bet that we He_sburgh is and that he doesn't have time to want you to settle. What is the order of the waste on silly columns like mine. colors in a five-flavor roll oflifesavers? 
Sweety Ann Flanders book, Everything You Always Dear Sweety, Wanted to Know About Sex, and Then Some is 
I'm a bit out ofmy field here, so I thought I'd an ideal gift for family entertainment. ask my good friend Father Theodore Hes­Please enclose 50 cents with your request burgh, C.S.C. to offer his words ofwisdom. and a long self-addressed stamped envelope 
He tells me the order is: yellow, red, orange, to Ann Flanders, 301 Administration Build­green, white, red, yellow, green, white, red, ing, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 orange. 
Left Field N~wspaper Syndicate-

Meanwhile, the accelerated arms race is Soviets, the prospects of reaching an accord likely to heighten tensions even further and whereby we share our most sophisticated risk the chance ofbringing on the nuclear war technology is a fantasy. The president chooses we are trying to avoid. to ignore this and dreams ofa world in which 
Second, the Soviets have vowed to never we all live happily ever after. again be militarily inferior to the United His storyline might play in Hollywood, but States. Imminent deployment of a US system world history shows that the development of which renders their missiles ineffective might new and progressively more destructive provide them with the incentive to strike "ultimate weapons" -e.g. the rifle, the can-before they fall into this disadvantaged posi-non, the nuclear bomb -has not rendered tion. (For that matter, how would we respond war obsolete but has only made it more dead-if the Soviets won the ABM race and were ly. IfABMs made nuclear weapons ineffective, about to become invulnerable to our hostile nations would find new ways to kill missiles?) one another's people. 
Third, the Soviets in response to US deploy-Living in the world with the Soviet Union is 
ment of ABMs in violation of the existing a risky and difficult business. It requires 
agreement would likely renounce prior arms maturity and level-headed thinking. President 
control treaties and add numerous offensive Reagan must abandon fantasies of weapons 
weapons and decoys capable of overwhelm-that make us invulnerable. 
ing our ABMs. Offensive weapons systems He should scrap plans for the development 
come cheaper than "Star Wars" ABM systems. ofeither space-based or land-based ABMs and 
Finally, President Reagan and his advisors get on with the business ofworking out peace-
have sometimes suggested that the US might ful means for resolving our differences with 
share ABM technology with the Soviets. Given the Soviet Union. It is in that less fanciful ap­
the administration's track record on the proach to risk management that real security 
negotiation of arms agreements with the lies. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
As an Arts and Letters student I think Von­
Keenan Revue 
derheide does not need the position added to 
Dear Editor: his already impressive resume. After living 
Contrary to the recently published with your new head honcho for two years and 
opinions ofthis year's producer ofthe Keenan listening to his vicious assaults on the market 
Revue, it is our experience that the ND/SMC value ofan Arts and Letters diploma, I believe 
theater department holds no grudge what­that out of fairness and with this new insight 
soever against the Revue, and, in fact, wishes into Vonderheide's character, the general 
us well. board should reconsider its decision. Give the 
Further, we want to express publicly job to an Arts and Letters student who needs 
Keenan's thanks to Dr. McDonnell and Stu­all the help possible in securing a job after 
dent Activities for their generous and en­graduation. 
thusiastic support of the Revue. We fully And anyway, what will the big stories be · understand that the scope oftheir financial aid next year? Will news from the latest ther­
to the Revue must be reevaluated on a yearly modynamics convention top the headline? In­
basis, and we are confident that their decision stead ofphotos, will chemicalflow diagrams 
regarding next year's support will be made fill thepages ofThe Observer? Please, before it 
according to their view ofwhat is best f or the is too late, reconsider. 
ND/SMC community and for the Revue. Mark V. Boennighausen 
While every Keenan resident has the right 
to express his opinions, the official spokesper­
sons for the Hall and the Revue are the rector 
and Hall president. 

Letters policy 
john]. Cerabino /Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the
Keenan Hall President 
editor is subject to the dai(y constraints of the page. They must bear the address,Rev. DavidA. Garrick telephone number, and signature of the
Keenan Hall Rector 
author(initials andpseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be well-written and
CHEG editor? 
typed. Material shorter than 250 words wilt Dear Editor: receive priori~y. All letters are subject to 
A chemical engineer as editor in chief? just .editing and become the property of The Ob­because Bob Vonderheide is a brillant writer, server. has great experience and loves the newspaper business is no reason to elect him editor in chief. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint Department 
is seeking new writers. 
Contact Keith at\239-7471. 

Editorial Qoard DepartmentManagers 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen 
The Obseroer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the lJni­Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Omtroller...............................................Alex Szilvas versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Edttor................................. Bob Vonderheide 'ldvertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Circulation Manager .........................Mark Miotto curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski \}·stems Manager.... . ........... Kevin Williams majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Viewpoint Editor ..............................•.Keith Picher 
Founded November 3, 1966 
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower 
Showcase 
Wednesday, February 15, 1984 -page 6 
Rangers go through 'heir and come out on top 
Joseph's Lake. It involves, first ofall, 
shooting offsmoke grenades to 
provide a more traumatic yet realis­
tic setting. Candidates must then 
push themselves through the sand, 
first on hacks then on stomachs, 
from one end ofthe beach to the 
other. This is followed by a running 
jump off the pier into the lake, after 
which they must crawl hack up on 
the beach, John Wayne style. 
According to Cadet Major Kevin 
Campo, a senior who is commander 
ofthe Irish Rangers, that first week is 
a good introduction to the Rangers' 
"esprit de corps" and builds tremen­
dous morale among those involved. 
Survivors of"Hell Week" con­
tinue to maintain candidacy by 
participating in Rangers' activities. 
The group meets once a week and 
the agenda ofthe meetings could in­
clude anything from watching a 1 
training film to doing physical drills. 
Besides the meetings, various ~x­crciscs arc planned throughout the year that arc designed to develop certain skills. Included among these arc the handling ofmilitary weapons, rappclling. and operating small boats. Plans had been made for winter survival exercises to take place la.o;t Sunday. However, due to the less than wintry weather, the ex­ercises were cancelled. Some drills are held at The LeMans Military Academy in Rolling Plains, Indiana, or at Camp Custer, Michigan. 
Later in the spring, the entire group will travel to Ft. Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis to par­ticipate in the traditional juniorfield training exercises. On this weekend expedition, juniors arc trained in raid, ambush, and reconnaissance 


tactics and arc evaluated on their performance. Sophomores arc responsible for setting up special missions for the juniors to carry out and then guiding them into the path ofthe "enemy" where their tactical skills will he put to usc. Acting a.~ the aggressors arc freshmen a.-; well as sophomores. The seniors act as critics in the exercises and make sure .all operations run smoothly. 
At the end ofeach semester, the Rangers hold a formal dining-in for 
·all members and candidates. On these occasions, black berets arc awarded to those who have earned the distinction ofbeing a full-fledged Irish Ranger. The new Rangers must then continue to maintain mt·mhcr­ship hy participating in all exercises. Tht· hlack ht·rct bn·omcs a part of their uniform and serves to distin­guish them from the other ROTC participants. 
While Irish Rangers is primarily an 
affectionately referred to a.o; "Hell

by Margaret McCabe 
Week." During this week, about the 
features staff writer third week offirst semester. all can­didates arc introduced to various aspects of military life in general,
I
n the l lnited States Army, the quired to perform certain tasks Rangers is an elite group offorces throughout the year. The first task is such a.'i disciplined training and to survive what is not-so-military appearance, bearing, and
that have been rigorously trained for 
spn:ialmissions. One sud1 mission 
was the move on (iranada last fall. 
Ikre at Notre Dame, on a some· 
what smaller scak, t·xists a similar 
group-the Irish Rangers. These 
Rangers arc an elite, highly 
motivated group within the Army 
R< >TC program. 
According to Assistant Professor of Military Science Captain Smith, who happens to he a member of the liS Army Rangers, the Irish Rangers program is designt·d to offer its mcmbas the opportunity to apply the principles lcarnt·d in ROTC dasst·s to practical activities. These activitks strt·ss survival tactics and indudt· rugged drills that will no doubt sharpt·n tat·til'al planning skills and dcvdop physical stamina. 
While the I0 pt·rt'l'nt of Notre Dame's student body involved with om· of the thrn· ROTC programs may ht· familiar with the Rangers, tht· otht·r 90 pt·rn·nt may he un­aware ofwhat becoming an Irish Ranger entails. 
A person desiring membership can not simply join. He or she is rc­

ceremony. 
The five days of"hcll" involve rigorous physical training, including getting up each morning at '5:30 to run and do drills. The climax ofthe week is the "lemming drill" which takes place on the shore ofSt. 

Miss Manners 

And try flirting with quantum mechanics 
"There she wasjust walking down the street ..."-early morning drills, a part oj"Hell Week." 
by Judith Martin 
DearMiss Manners-I am a graduate student nearing the end ofmy 
education at the institution I now attend. I have developed a special 
atkction for a partil'ular instructor ami the ft:ding appears to be 
mutual. 

W'hile studt·nt·laculty fraternization is common, so is nasty gossip. 
What art· appropriatt· and uncompromising activities we could share 
hdilrc gradu;:tion~ May I visit his home? Lunch or dinner in a well-lit 
plat'l'? On cunpus or offi Movies, plays, museums? Locally or out of 
town? 

I umkrstand the need to kl'l'p our behavior in good taste, but I 
IH't'd guidance as to the specifics. 
(,'l'ntle Reader-Fraternizatinn is gelling to he a popular subject on 
campu~ not only lilr gossip, but lilr legislation. Do your friend a 
professional favor. and incitkntally add some piquancy to your bud­
ding romance. hy bdng t·xtrt·mdy discrn·t while you remain a stu­
tknt. 

No school has wanted to prt'Vl'tll students and tcahers from 
intdkt·tual ~·xchangt·s. t·vcn in inli>rmal circumstances. It is ex· 
tracurricular activitks that are under suspicion. 
You might hear in mind that campuses arc rcmarkahk places for transmilling news. Tht· more you try to hide, the more likely it is that you will ht· sc.Tn and juicily discussed -and no one will think you are meeting in Bermuda to go over your thesis. 
But you might go to his houst· to do so.Justcarry a lot ofbooks. 
Must·ums and meals -yes, thost· nlllld he related to your work. 
Movks and plays art· not places to discuss anything. You will he 
overheard occa~ionally in any public place, so you might learn to 
llirt in tht· jargon of your lield, which could he a lot offun. 
Consider this all a challenge. Young people today have few oppor­tunitk~ to discover how thrilling romance can be when tht· very possibility of it is considcrnl naughty. 
Oear ,'f,fiss !!,fanners -A terribly ~ood friend of mine wa.~ divorced 
somt· time ago. Through happt·nstancc, cirumstancc and the worst 
h;td luck. sht· has gone without male companionship since that time. This "normal" woman (explanation ti>rthnHning) is rt·asonably in­tdligent, reasonably attractin· and. lucky for her. on the young side of 50. although ~he refuses to divulge by how much. 
Alas, hn own devices t(,r acquainting herself with reasonably in· tdligent. reasonably attractive males of any age (for purposes of companion~hip) han· (through no fault ofher own. silt' informs nw) utterly htilt-d. \\'orsc yet t . pleas to frknds. acquaintances and total strangers to imlulgt· hc.·r by introdudng her to the aforementioned gentlemt·n have mt·t with platitude: "I don't know a soul," "A woman like you shouldn't have any trouhk," etc 
Poor soul! llcr distress at this point (the "some time ago" being a largt· numhn ofSaturday evening~ spent polishing her toaster) is so acute I am afraid she is shortly -very shortly ->in to run amok 
in the streets destroying telephones poles, entire buildings, etc. 
As I have to deal with this pitiable creature on a daily basis and am 
finding her increasingly morbid and melancholy, not to mention im­
possible to deal with, I need to be advised -and fast. Can one advise 
such a person? Ifso, what advice should be given? Please, Miss Man­
ners, rush the advice before the city is destroyed. 
Gentle Reader -Miss Manners is very sorry to report that she 
docsn't know any gcntlmcn who wish to meet a morbid, melancholy 
lady whose terribly good friend acknowledges her to be pitiful, im­
possible lO deal with and not very securely situated on this side of 
sanity. She doubts that anyone else docs either. 
It is a paradox that t:agcrncss in romance, so prized in the par­
ticular. is so despised in the general. Ifsomeone is desperately in 
love with you -well, that is only understandable and shows a 
laudahle sense ofdis(.Timination. Ifsomeone is just desperate to be 
in love -that is only understandable ifyou arc not a target, and, 
nevertheless, unattractive all around. Miss Manners can easily im­
agine those friends to whom she applied -not even wanting to 
think about the applications to strangers -saying, "Oh, let's not 
have Franccsca-she only wants to meet men," and, "It wouldn't he 
fair to saddle Anthony with someone that anxious when he's just 
gone through a divorce." 

The theory is that romance is something that happcnns acciden­tally while one is on the way to doing something else. Never mind that nobody believes this theory -the important thing is to behave as ifone did, and to go about life in a cheerful, interested fashion, pretending that one likes humanity in general, not just potential partners. The number ofgentlemen who would like to meet warm, happy, involved ladies is certainly greater than those who want ro meet sullen, half-crazy ones. 
DearMissManners -Iam a young professional woman who wears 
no makeup, because it's not my style and I think it's yucky (as do 
most of my friends. particularly men). My mother suggests, and I 
tend to agree, that I should wear makeup for my upcoming role as 
bridesmaid. 

Am I right to feel so obligated? Arc there professional orsocial cir­t·umstanccs underwhich a woman really ought to wear makeup, and why? Docs one wear it because it is part ofa uniform, or because one is to spare spectators the sight of pale lips, short lashes and blemished skin? 
Gentle Reader -Like the gentle reader who wondered timidly if it would be wrong to add a few personal words to a purchased greet­ing card, you have left Mis.o; Manners shaking her head and muttering about what tht.· world ha.~ come to. She has long ackowlcdgcd that the rule ahout no nice lady painting is defunct, but not that it has been rt·vcrsed, so that a lady must paint. 
No, you need not wt·ar makeup. If anyhod)· qtfti'~fc'fri~':vi>u on this, just tell them that you went to a lot of trouble and expense to achieve the latest "natural look," and arc pleased to hear that you have succeeded. 
•..• ;< ·~-• "tii iii .:;we; i .. ' ·pi I 
Wednesday, February 15,1984-page 7 
Eight De01s and one Gipper 
President out" ofnostalgia. Don't believe it!
by Chris Fraser 
features columnist 
Cary Hart is a senator from Colorado who helped out on 
P
ut on your straw hats, break out Office in one year? Ifyou're stuckaf­McGovern's campaign in '72. He'sthe bands, display your posters, ter Mr. Mondale and Mr. Glenn, mad at George for running this yearyour bumperstickers, your buttons, you're certainly not alone. In filet, because he thinks George may steal yourballoons, and anything else you even ifyou're stuck before Mr. 
some ofhis votes. Halfofzero is still 
have with somebody's name on it. Mondale and Mr. Glenn, you're zero, Gary.
This, my friends, is a good old­probably still in good company. The Ernest Hollings and Alan Cranstonfashioned presidential election year, truth is, the democrats don't look are also senators -I think. I don'tcomplete with 728 candidates and too excitingthis year. Aside from the know anything else about them.
all the appropriate trimmings. frontrunners, there are about six Here's a briefand insubstantial look other "handshakers" who are Last and probably least among the at the candidates and a few un­pounding the nation's pavement, democratic candidates is Reuben As­solicited remarks on their delivering semi-passionate speeches kew. Reuben is currently un­respective worthiness. to half-filled Ladies Auxiliary Club employed politically, although I'm 
Quick, name all the democrats meetings, and pleading with local told he used to be governor of
A swimming drill on the shore ofSt. Joe's, in warmer weather, ofcourse. 
who hope to be sitting in the Oval stations to interview them on the Florida. Someone in my dorm has news ...all with the hope ofsome­been passing around Reuben AskewArmy ROTC program, its popularity how capturing the imagination of bumperstickers. No kidding! Mr. As­
has attracted a few ofits members the American people. But we'll start kew wins the award for the name
from the Navy ROTC and Airforce 
with the frontrunners. most likely to be mistaken for an ex­
Offering hope to grads 
ROTC programs. According to Cap­otic entree. It's also a great Vice­tain Smith, the Rangers is the most Walter Mondale used to be Vice­Presidential name, but I don't thinkpopular extracurricular activity be­
President ofthe United States. That this is Reuben's year.
cause of the adventure involved. The special section provides a puts him in the august company of
"It's ch~llenging to all of them be­Special to The Observer briefdescription ofeach organiza­That takes care ofthe democrats.
men like Elbridge Gerry (under
cause they're doing things they've tion's principal products and The picture is considerably clearerJames Madison) and SchuylerColfax 
never done before," says Smith of As the calendar ticks down the services, along with an address on the republican side. President(.under Ulysses S. Grant). Those VPst-he Rangers' 55 members, one of days to graduation. some seniors where appplicants should send their Ronald Reagan has decided to seekprobably couldn't become presi­which is female, and "it brings them are sitting comfortably at Senior Bar resumes. In addition. each listing re-election and he will surelydents because oftheir names alone.
a great deal ofsatisfaction." Smith with job offers in hand. Others are specifies the type ofacademic back­capture the GOP nomination. If Mr. 
It's like the aversion I have for the
adds, "The females that become in­exchanging handfuls ofrejection let­ground wanted, and the actual job Reagan's aides can keep him fromname Walter. But I do think it's bet­volved with the Rangers are just as ters for a glass ofalcohol, and anoth­categories to be filled Many 
making too many bonebeaded
ter than Fritz, which is how Mr.
active in their participation." er, and another ... employers have listed candidates in remarks offthe top ofhis head, weMondale sometimes refers to him­But there is hope. The annual short supply so that individuals with may just have Ronnie around for an­
Another attractive aspect of Ran­self. I really can't figure out why. Do
Changing Times survey ofjobs for those skills will have an added in­
other four years.
gers is that it is a student-run or­new graduates found some bright you want your life in the hands ofa
centive to apply.
ganization. Senior members act as Fritz?
spots for job seekers amid what is Besides the list, this issue of Reagan's campaign will consist of the leaders and take complete 
generally characterized as a flat quoting a lot ofstatistics about the
Changing Times provides an over­
responsibility, including evaluation john Glenn was once an economy and telling us how much
recruitingyear. view ofthe current job market, and 
ofunderclassman performance. astronaut. I suppose he was a good 
betteroffwe are. The democratswill Thus Rangers is viewed as an oppor­astronaut since he is still alive. I The Feb. 1984 issue ofCbanging includes specific suggestions about take the same statistics and tell us
Times lists those employers with writing a successful job seeking let­
tunity to build confidence and think that being an astronaut is a how much worse offwe are. It
firm plans to hire graduating seniors ter, preparing for an interview and 
develop leadership qualities. Cap­very difficult job indeed ... so I like should result in a stimulating politi­
this year, in a special supplement, adjusting to the demands ofa first 
tain Smith and Sargeant First Class john Glenn. His name isn't bot­cal debate.
"101 Companies withjobs for New job.
Brown do act as advisors to the hersome, which pleases me, but I al­
College Grads.''Changing Times is a The graduates most in demand are ways have trouble with people with They say Reagan's a pretty nice 
monthly periodical published by those with engineering degrees; 65 two first names. guy and I really enjoyed him as the Kiplinger Washington Editors. Inc. percent ofthe companies in the lis­Gipper. His biggest problem in my 


group. They monitor the safety 
aspect ofdrills and offer con­
structive criticism to the leaders. 
Cadets Campo, Steve Carlile, and Kevin Poling, all ofwhom are senior officers ofthe group, agree there is a strong correlation between involve­ment in Rangers and future batallion rank as well as performance at sum­mer camp. Summer camp is a six week drill session in which all Army ROTC members must participate. It takes place between junior and senior years and involves drills that Ranger members are somewhat ac­customed to by that time. After sum­mer camp. new Ranger leaders are appointed for the year. 
While the Irish Rangers may never 
receive special orders from the US 
government, the qualities that are 
developed by participating in the 
group arc no doubt destined to be 
vital attributes to the success ofits 
individuals in the future, no matter 
what their mission will be. 
ting report they need graduates in various engineering specialties, from electrical to aerospace and power specialties. 
Behind engineers on the demand index are computer science graduates, wanted by 51 percent of the listed companies; those with degrees in accounting, sought by 48 percent, business-marketing­economics grads, wanted by 43 per­cent ofthe companies. 
Further down the scale are graduates in mathematics (wanted by 22 percent oflisted companies), physical sciences ( 21 percent) and liberal arts ( 17 percent). And 27 percent ofthecompanies reported a need for graduates with specialties in other categories -agribusiness; animal science; home economics with emphasis on textiles; jour­nalism and communications; in­dustrial and manufacturing technology; logistics arid procure­ment; nuclear medicine technology; nursing and health care administra­tion. 
mind is that he has no middle name.
jessejackson went to Syria and Think for a minute, have you eversecured the release ofan American heard anyone ever mention Ronaldprisoner, Major Robert Goodman. 
Reagan's middle name? He's alwaysUnfortunately, heroic actions dont 
introduced as just plain old Ronald
play much ofa part in todays Reagan, and a middle name doesn'tpresidential circus. Sorryjesse, its even appear in almanacs or en­money that counts. Personally, I cyclopedias. I know this may notliked Major Goodman better than sound like a big deal but I have thisjackson. I think I'll vote for him for sneaking suspicion that he's got oneVice-President. 
ofthose really funny middle names and he's too embarrassed to tell You probably remember George 
anyone. He'sprobably got it clas­McGovern. He won this whole 
med so that not even Nancy can democratic thing way back in '72, 
find it out. Anyway, I never trust and went on to capture Massachu­
someone who won't tell me their setts and the District ofColumbia in 
middle name. A president shouldn't the election. His favorite statistic 
have anything to hide. Even Nixon these days is that the political 
made Milhouse public and there's paranoics who beat him (Dickie 
not many middle names worse than Nixon eta!) spent something like 
that. I00 years in jail George has spent most ofhis 60-odd years in South So there are the candidates. Frank­Dakota which is nothing to brag ly, I don't believe there'sa Wolshing­about either. While travelling ton or a lincoln in the crowd around the country with a couple of Perhaps some Garfields or Piercesor aides in his family station wagon, even a Mllard Fillmore, but no George says he's not running for founding fathers by any means. 
• : Get into the spotlight! : 
• 
The Features Dept. of • 
The Observer is looking 
for writers interested in 
• •

art, theatre or movies. •
• 

•• 
See the Features Editor •
•
• •
• 

for more info. ond see •
• •
• 

your name up in lights-•
• 
•
• 

weli, in print anyway. •
• 
•
• 
• 

While many firms said their campus recruitinng has been cur­tailed as a continuing result ofthe recession, many others offered en­couragement, especially to students with specialized skills. About 40 per­cent ofthe companies surveyed reported that they are having dif­ficulty finding qualified candidates for certain kinds ofjobs. Those job openings are mostly in technical fields, such as engineering, physics. dairy science and manufu.cturing. But some organizations report shortages ofapplicants for such diverse jobsas economists, linguists, restaurant managers, intelligence of­ficers, physicians and nurses. A lis­tingofthese companies is part ofthe issue. 
Overall, about 40 perent ofthe companies that responded said they plan to hire the same number of graduates as they did last year, and 30 percent say they plan to hire more this year. Only 18 percent report they will hire fewer. 

Trying to stay cool while doing push-ups, Rangers work out down at the lake. 
;,. ._)

>'··V'M··'·v-·:¢:··~~ • ,,L.iQ&&'Wi;; §l. £ 0 ei&WW:Mfiib -ilg•.. u.i& tf'Ah'''iGS·*flW·$4iW k ·• &¥3 ::X·@P.·AiA'·!' ,.J, ··'·z 41 '· ·§s. ,g ·&II ;;ss ;; ·AWJA a 
Sports Briefs 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes are sponsoring an evening with Mr. Van Crouch, tom01TOW at 7:30p.m. in the Howard Hall social space. Mr. Crouch is a well-known motiva­tional sports speaker in the Chicago area. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Cheerleaders wishing to try out for the 1984-85 squad must attend a meeting on February 27 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The captain of next year's team will be Bill Thallemer. Call him for more details. -The Obsen1er 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for February 28. Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to Dennis Stark the day before the meet or the interhall office, C2, ACC. For more information on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing club will hold a general meeting today at I 0 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. All old and in­terested new members are required to attend. Dues will be col­lected, and information on the trip to Austin, Tx. over break will be discussed. If you can not make the meeting, call joe at 8198 orJ.T. at 
1414.-The Observer 

The Saint Mary's basketball teamdropped a game last night to Valparaiso, 66-48, after trailing at halftime, 31-23. Valpo outrebounded the Belles, 53-41, and had a 20-32 edge in tur­novers. Elaine Suess had 14 points, and Kris Pantellaria added 1 3 for the Belles. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's track team travels to Ann Arbor, Mich. this weekend to compete in the Huron Invitational at Eastern Michigan University. Ten teams will compete in this non-scoring meet, and Notre Dame will be the only non­varsity team. Last weekend, the team ran at the Indiana Intercol­legiate meet at Purdue. Senior Rose Marie Luking and sophomore Susan Wanchow performed well in the 1000-meter event, and Lucy Sullivan was impressive in the 300-meter race. -The Observer 
Wednesday, February 15, 1984 -page 8 
New eye problems 
Sugar Ray postpones title fight 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The doctor who 

operated on Sugar Ray Leonard's 
right eye said yesterday it will be 
two weeks before the boxer can 
start training ag t ain for his postponed 
comeback match. But Dr. Edward IIJyan also said he doesn't think 
Leonard sho~kfflght at all. 
"I wouldn't recommend that he 

fight, but ifthe eye heals up properly 
I could not prevent him from fight­
ing" said Ryan, a retinal specialist at 
the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infir­
mary. 
Ryan operated on the former wel­terweight champion Monday, after a checkup showed the retina in his right eye was becoming loose. 
"Sugar Ray tolerated the proce­dure very well," said Ryan, who had never examined the boxer before. "His eye will be a little sore." 
Ryan said Leonard's left eye, operated on in 1982, is fine but with­out the surgery in his right eye, the boxer could not have fought safely against Kevin Howard Feb. 25. The match has been postponed and no new date has been announced. 
Leonard was resting in the Wash­ington area, and the secretary of Mike Trainer, his lawyer, said there would be no statement until the end ofthe week and no news conference was scheduled. 
The 27-year-old fighter had sur­gery on his left eye on May 9, 1982, to repair a partly detached retina and retired from boxing the follow­ing Nov. 9. He had a 32-1 record and was undisputed welterweight cham­pion at the time. 
On Dec. 10, Leonard announced his comeback against Howard at the Worcester Centrum. 
"Ifhis eye is bad and he can't fight, 
Big Ten title race continues 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -This week "could be the breaking point" for the three teams fighting it out for the Big Ten title, Purdue Coach Gene Keady said yesterday. 
Keady's Boilermakers, their 10-1 record tying them atop the league standings with Illinois, and third­place Indiana hit the road for a pair ofcrucial confrontations. And Keady 
anticipates  some  changes  in  the  
standings  by  the  end  of  the  
weekend.  

"I just doubt that all three teams can win both their games," he said during the weekly teleconference. The 11th-ranked Boilermakers, 17-4 overall, visit Michigan State tomor­row and Michigan on Saturday. 
No. 7 Illinois, 19-2 overall, plays Michigan tomorrow and Michigan State on Sunday. Indiana, ranked 17th, puts its 9-2 and 16-5 records on the line at Iowa tomorrow and Northwestern on Saturday. 
Michigan Coach Bill Frieder says he isn't too excited about entertain­ing the two frontrunners, especially when the Wolverines, 5-5 and 13-7, have to travel to Indiana afterwards. 
"It took us two weeks to recover from the last time we played them," Frieder said, recalling a four-point defeat at Purdue and a four-overtime disappointment at Illinois. 
Keady says he's wary of both op­ponents this week. Michigan State, 2-8 and 9-11, apparently has overcome a string of injuries that marred its season, and the Purdue coach expects the Spartans to put it all together down the stretch as they did last year. 
then God bless him," Howard said 
Monday night. "1 have to step on. If 
we don't fight, give me another op­
ponent." 
Ryan said the routine procedure involved freezing part of the eye to form scar tissue that would make the retina adhere better. The surgery, performed under local anesthesia, took five or six minutes. 

The doctor said he expected the eye to heal well, but Leonard would have to be examined before every fight to ward off trouble. 
"Fighters should be screened for this prior to boxing," Ryan said. 
Asked when he thought Leonard could fight again, Ryan said "We'll have to see how his eye responds to the treatment." 
Leonard arrived here Sunday to begin training for the fight. 

"I don't think he was terribly dis­couraged" about the postponement, said Dan Doyle of KO inc. _of Hartford, Conn., who was · to promote the fight. "He just tho~ht it was importat nt to take all precau­tions." 
Leonard has said he's working toward a bout with undisputed mid­dleweight champion Marvelous Marvin Hagler. 
In an interview Monday, he said, "Everything is pretty much geared to the Leonard-Hagler fight. It should be one of the biggest in his­tory and there is great public demand for it." 
All matches must be played and reported to the NVA office by Friday. February 17. The NVA en­courages all matches to be played and reported at the earliest convenience. 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES Gels-Abd Allah (1480) v. K1mmei-Crouch (1694) Gardner-Bono (B646) v. Magri-Zimmer (1059) Golub-Pravezek (8456) v. Barenton-ChludZ1nsk1 (3137) Weslhoven-Graf (3610) v. Casey-Nichols (8833) Dice-Kress (B538) v. Sirriann-Hardek ( 1371) Ludtke-Wagner (6871) v. Lane-Hickey (1023) Higgins-Sutler (1B73) v. Grojean-Rad1maker (1248) Bathon-H1IIerman (B313) v. Boyle-Clement (3210) Rehder-Rogers (B022) v. James-Connally (1530) Smith-Villareal (162B) v. Coyle-Bianton (6380) Dugan-Hudson (1620) v. Bogg1o-Ryan (B459) 
The Obsen'er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda . 
Ludy:ILYMTYLMI

LOST A SINGLE -ROOM Lost-One men's N.D. class ring w1th blue FOR SALE: PIONEER TURNTABLENOTICES KEY.BETWEEN STEPAN CENTER AND stone and initials JMU 1ns1de, in area of AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST OF­
NEED RIDE TO I.U .. LEAVING FRIDAY

ZAHM. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL huddle probably. $20 reward. Jim at FER CALL 8046 PERSONALS 
WILL PAY USUAL. CALL TONY x1054. 

DAVE.N0.117B 1572. EXPERT TYPIST 2n-B534 AFTER 5:30 4SALE:Complete component sys­
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, N.D. RUGBY PLAYER. I NEED THE
FOUND. EYEGLASSES Along Juniper tem.Sharp cassette deck. Must see.175$ ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT· LOST: Silver Class Ring with Red Stone. 
CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM U.S. 31 N.. ONE SHIRT OFF YOUR BACK! I need an N.D.
Rd. near C-21ol. Call287-9766 even1ngs. or Best offer. 277-4734. HERS I Surf' a up but our prlcee anon'l Call Beaver B449 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. rugby shirt-Call Peg 1314 
From juat $109.00 -apend 7 tun-filled lost pa1r of women· s w1ne colored leather daya In aunny FlorldL Call lor youi'Mif g loves EMCcanpu saC"""'u s v 18N LOST red paperback -JUSTICE. Al­TOMORROW IS "KISSY KATS" 22ND The Fudgepacker is coming. Beware men or orQIInl:re a amall group and travel ternative blahblah ... by Sterba, ad ... call 
BIRTHDAY. ofNDI
apt s il"ea If lourtl . p lea seca I 1277-4 734 FREEl Great tor cluba, to I ol Call LUV Thank-you . Jesse at234-7033 TICKETS TOURS (BOO) 368-2006. ask for An­ATTENTIONIIAND HERE WE GO 
AGAIN-DO YOU HAVE A PARTY, SYR 
nette FOUND: Silver Cross pen behind
Lost. my pat1ence w1th Sen1or Nurs1ng 
Need many Marquette lix $$call Sue 284-OR FORMAL THAT YOU NEED THE
Theory. Is 11 too late to change my O'Shaughnessy before Chnstmas break. BOB MUSSELMAN I LOVE YOUR .... !
5173 

MUSIC SUPPUED FOR??? THEN
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME Call Karen 3687to identify initials. 
m8jor???????? ENDAD AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS. 
CALL WSND-FOR ONE LOW PRICE?????????????????Toolles Daddys. 
Need 2 stu. lix for !he Marquette game. YOU TOO CAN HAVE A PROFE~
COKER 233-7009. NEEDED RIDERS TO IU LEAVING
Cai1138B SIONAL OJ, ENGINEER, AND ALL THE

LOST. TWO CASES OF SANITY! IF THURSDAY JIM 3584 TDK SA 90 & MAXELL XL 2 Tapes $2.50 
MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEIII CALLFOUND. PLEASE RETURN TO HAVE CASH -NEED MARQUETTE REGINALD DANIEL AT 23&-7425 OR
each. Dan Meakon 277-3306 FOR RENT oh, what a beautiful day for love and
SHARONA AND KATH IN 843 P.E.­
TICKETS CALL MATT x122B 2113-1153. THE DATES ARE FILUNG
THANKSI end ad life...it's even better with one's friends ... Full lima 1 Summar jolla lor atudanta 
UP QUICK SO CALL TODAYIIIIII AVAILABLE NOW-Efficiency apartment WSND PARTY REMOTE5-1HE BEST
NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Keith
apaclallzlng In Banking I -lng. CAP'N CRUNCH LOVES PATTI BER­to Perry Bu11er Thanks alol -You are a
1180

near Notre Dame on busline, 255-B505. EQUIPMENT, THE BEST PRODUC­
Commlulon only ulaa rapruentattve GIN! real sweetheart! I Love you, Betsy c•olllng on banka I preaantlng t our 
TION AT THE BEST PRICEIII 
one bdrm,den,balh and krtchn-10min to MARQUETTE TIX? I need two studen1
computer Mrvlca. MMG Corp. Flort.ln JEAN ITS NEVER REALLY OVER UN­
LOST TAN, UNIV.-OF-TEXAS 
tickets to the Marquette game. Please call 
ND (best offer) 232-7173 OMAHA, NE (CREIGTON U.)
L Balaa 1-IOC)-512-o42a. PULLOVER WINDBREAKER TIME. TILIT'S REALLY OVER YOU MAY HAVE 
1388 

ANYONE?? Ride or riders needed to
10:30. SUN. FEB. 12... BADIN T.V WON THE BATTLE, BUT I PROMISE 
Omaha ffor the weekand of Feb. 24 -26.
THERE IS A POSITION OPEN FOR LOUNGE ACTUALL Y,l BELIEVE TT HIS YOU YOU WILL LOSE THE WAR.
HELP MElli need MU TIX Will pay$$$ for Will share usual. Call Jeanne at3484. 
THOSE WISHING TO BE CHIEF EN­JACKET WAS STOLEN. PLEASE them Call 8440 GINEER OF WSND. SEND YOUR AP­PROVE ME WRONG AND RETURN MY 
WANTED 
International Studen1s: I.S.O. tubing,PLICATIONS TO LOUIS FUKAAT X1531 
JACKET A.S A P IT HAS MY NAME IN BEFORE MIDNIGHT THURSDAY, 16 IL.J.J.LIU PH.8330 
NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX STUDENT sledding and winter games Place:Bendix 
Summer Sales Position. Average ear­OR GA CALL JOHN 671 B Woods Park Date:Sa!2/1B Time:6.30pm EXCELLENT BILLY JOEL ANDFEB. TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE AND 
........................ MANAGEMENT SKILLS A MUST. 
nings $2700. Sell yellow page advertiSing ~you want to come, sign up at the I.S.O. CHRISTIE BRINKLEY COLOR PHOTOS LOST: Tl55 II IN CUSHING. PLEASE for Notre Dame and Western Michigan lounge, Mon lhru Thurs Bpm-1 Opm FROM CONCERT. SHOT FROM FIRST CALL BILL 1224. 
University Campus Telephone Direc­ROW. CALLBOBAT3314. 
NEEDtories. Spend 5 weeks in Notre Dame and

FOUND CALCULATOR in 356 2 MARQUETTE G. A.'S
5 weeks in Kalamazoo. Car necessary. ORIOLES FEVER ...catch rtlll 
Frtzpatrick Wed. Feb. B. Can now identify CALL Dave McGonigle Congrats to NOs most
ILOST/FOUND I 
No summer school s1udents. Lodging and
and claim at lost and found RICH intellectual WARD 
one meal per day provided while in THE LAWS OF MR. GOODWENCH.... Lost-Diamond and sapphore ring. Kalamazoo. Sign-up for campus interview 1411 LAW NO. 2 (Hefner's Law) A girt's intel­Belonged to Grandma. Great sentomental REWARD for the recovery of a 20-inch by calling 1-800-334-4436 by Feb. 17. LOST: One of the lui editiona ol The ligence is inversely proportional to her 
value If foung please call 284-4437. burgundy, beaded necklace. LOST Tues­IM?rl<s of ONver GoldsmNh from the
Ask for Berbara Nieukirk. chest size. 
Reward day, Feb. 7, at noon som-here between Would LOVE One or two TIX to see IRISH Notre 0.... lllemorilll Ubrary. It you O'Shag and South Dining Hall. If found. BEAT MARQUETTE. Call DIGGER 8015 Mv.-.. thla prtce1eu 11111 century
Riders wanted to MILWAUKEE. Leave A blind bat only responds to physical con­LOST: BLACK CONCORD WATCH please call Beth at 67 4 7 or 67 45. dyou can helpII! book, ...... COI'Iblcl Kallhy at x2703.
2117, return 2/19. Share usual. Call tact (wink, wink). 
WITH BLACK LEATHER STRAP, GOlD Hwryllf Idon't g41111 beck eoon, Iwon't
Jeannie at 234-0302. LOSTLOST LOSTLOSTLOST­
HANDS AND BLACK FACE. LOST FEB-NEED AT LEAST 8 GAS FOR MAR­gnduatel And tt.l_,'lbe the...of 1 BETWEEN EMIL REVIEW AHO PW. CAMOFLAGE HAT --LOSTLOST QUETTE. CALL CATHY NO. 8773. my troublea ...
Need ride to GRAND RAPIDS on Feb. 17. 
CALL MAGGIE 21114. LOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOST Have you A brilliant mind lies shattered and worn, A
Will share expenses. Call BiH NO. 1629 
seen a rather shapeless camoftage hal SAVEALIFEIII brol<en heart as well. A tattered, ragged LOST IN ALUMNI KODAK CAMERA hang1ng around, suspiciously out of My father will KILL me d I don't come up Mary Louise Padden soul is lorn From its fragile human shell, CALL SMC4302 place? H seems to have wanted to find rt­wrth Marquette tickets for him and his Mary Louise Padden All that's left is a vegetable, repealing in seH and left Hs owner. If you have spotted visiting friends. He's VERY popular. but Birthday, Birthday monotone, This is true but ragretable. In LOST:TAN DOWN WINTER COAT WITH this rebel. contact Carole at 7B75. for she FOR SALE also very wealthy, so money is no Big 20. Smooochl LIFE, you're on your own." "LIFE gives us HOOD AT SENIOR BAR.I NEED IT!! IF will be extremely grateful. (This hat has a problem. Calf Jamie at B704. Thanu'!>J>. -~\i"'"'· Birthday no promises, nhas no vows to keep, A few FOUND.PLEASE CALL ED 277-6295 great amount of sentiments Want to know what's really going on in the must find theor calmnesses Only when REWARD value...besldes--its the kind wrth pull­Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL Sis at MU. Need tix 10 see ND win agaon. they drill to sleep,.. So kill yourself if you 
down ear flaps. and rt can't be found CATHOUC REPORTER, the only Call Kathy 1284. SKI TRIPI Still room available on ski trip to lh1nk you must. So let the red blood splat­FOUND IN THE STUDENT LOT BY anymore). You will have done your Chris­newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­Boyne Mountain this weekend. All years ter. To LIFE, you're only so much dust. STADIUM: EYEGLASSES IN BLUE tian duty and made this gi~ very JUbilant. scription information and a free sample I NEED 5 TIC~TS FOR THE MAR­welcome! Call Em1le (3770) or Tncia Your existence doesn't matter." ·Greg CASE CALL 1796 That's all. copy, call Paul at277-4851. QUETTE GAME. CALL MATT, 1208 (B125)1 Waddell 

TheObserver , Wednesday, February 15, 1984 -page 9 
fl"........................... 
I 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIII..H 
Record falls to 13-5 
Model United Nations 
Wrestlers lose to Illinois State 
ByJOE BRUNETTI it seem as though Illinois State become progressively tougher
Organizational Meeting 
Sports Writer dominated the Irish, but that was not throughout the season, but Toth­the case. Four of the Irish losses Fejel said he still felt his team was
7:00pm LaFortune Little Theatre 
After finishing an impressive came by two or less points. ready to meet the challenge of its fourth in last weekend's Wheaton In­schedule.
Wednesday, February 15 
vitational Tournament, the Notre ''I thought we would have won "I think we we're up for this (last Dame wrestling team suffered its one more of the one-pointers," said night's meet)," the Irish coach said,
(Those interested are urged to attend) 
fifth defeat in dual meets last night at Toth-FejeL "I expected them to be "but Illinois State is really good. li...ntHIIIIHIIIIIHI...IIIHIMIII......HIH...H ...IIHH.._.H...IIII I HMI....... the hands ofIllinois State, 25-15. good, but 1 thought it would have They were just better." 
a.,....~.,.~.,..,...,...,..~.,...,...,.......cr..;QI""J"'J"'~...O""J"'J"'...cr...cr..;QI""..;QI""JCI""J"' ~
....... 

weekend. Jolin was filling in for Irish with wins from Baty and Mike Louis Carnesale, who tore his bicep Golic. Baty, who holds a perfect 13-0
§Attention: duniors § 
I 
during last week's match against duel meet record, won his 177-The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll. with first-place votes in paren·
Miami ofOhio. pound match, 4-1. A tired Golic 
theses. this season's records and tolal points. Points
i ,Junior Parents' Weekend I (heavyweight) kept his perfect 7-0 based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents After two matches, the Irish were dual meet record alive with a pin 
are italicized. 
~ REGISTRATION leading Illinois State, 6-4. The Notre with six minutes left in his match. 1: North Carolina (53) 21-1 1210 
Dame points came from Fischer's The loss for the Irish was their 2. Georgetown (6) 21-2 1129 3. DePaul (1} 18-1 1061
forfeit win in the 126-pound class. third in as many dual meet outings. 
4. Houston (1) 21-3 994 After Fischer's six point win, the The last Irish dual meet win came 5. Nevada-Las Vegas 22-1 968 6. Kentucky 18-3 937 
§ ~ Thursday: 6:30pm -10:30pm I Irish were held scoreless until the against Indiana onJanuary 24. 7. Illinois 19-2 890I 77-pound match. The Notre Dame losses can be at­8. Memphis State 17-3 764 
available, you can't afford to pass 
Notre Dame and Apple deserve a up this once in a lifetime offer. 
lot of credit for putting together Or. open a Premier Credit Line such a great deat. And you deserve 
and write yourself a loan for your credit to help you buy your Macintosh. Premier Credit Line is a Macintosh. Talk to the personal line of credit that enables Professional3, today! 
qualified customers to borrow money anytime. anywhere. simply by writing a check. 
Yet one more option for you is to charge the purchase of your Apple 

ftJOSEPBBANK
Macintosh on your St. Joseph Bank 
MEMBER FDIC 
l!J/:rl
• 
'•06~' 
1£:19~?· 

.;:! ";tl", .._,, 
ol't/(•',

• 'JIJV 
UNDERGRADUATE COUNSEL FOR STUDENT RIGHTS 
Help and assistance is availableto those who are involved in disciplinary matters and to those who need advice concerning their student rights. 
Contact Bob Gleason 283-1847 
N Friday: 9:00am -8pm ~ ~ Saturday: 9:00am -Noon
I §§ at LaFortune ~ § Please bring J.D. §8 8 
At the Wheaton tourney the Irish been closer." were paced by second place finishes John krug (167 pounds) and 
The Irish will conclude their 
by captain Phil Baty and Freshman freshman Dave Helmer ( 190 regular season schedule this Friday Greg Fleming. Senior Mark Fisher pounds) both dropped one-point night at home against Purdue and placed third, while Kevin Staveley­decisions. Krug lost 3-2, with his op­Marquette. O'Carroll finished fourth. ponent's winninng point coming as a Following last night's defeat, 
result of more riding time. Helmer, Toth-Fejel said he knows what he Coach TihamerToth-Fejel was ex-
who was forced to wrestle up from needs to do to prepare his 13-5 Irish tremely pleased with 
177 pounds, also lost 3-2. for that meet. Staveley-O'Carroll's performance. Freshman Scott Biasetti ( 142 "We don't risk enough for the "Staveley looked awesome," 
pounds) and Staveley-O'Carroll pin," said Toth-Fejel. "We are also Toth-Fejel said after the meet. "He 
( 150 pounds) lost 12-0 and 4-2, going to work on our escapes." was wrestling over his head." 
respectively. The showing at the tourney 
"Staveley-O'Carroll and Biasetti wasn't without its consequences, 
wrestled really well," praised Toth­though. Pat Jolin ( 150-pounds) Fejel. 
popped his collarbone this Brighter moments came for the 
APPoll 
9. Oklahoma 20-3 669
The 25-15 margin last night makes tributed to competition which has 
10. Texas-EI Paso 21-2 

Wednesday Special 
3 • 8pm Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 8 • 3am Music By "Dewan" 
662 11. Purdue 17-4 576 12. Tulsa 20-2 511 13. Wake Foresl 17-4 415 14. Arkansas 19-4 408 15. Washington 17-4 359 16. Syracuse 15-5 166 17. Indiana 19·5 161 (tie) Louisiana State 15-5 161 19. Duke 19-5 110 20. Temple 18-2 106 

Now. in addition to getting a great deal on an Apple Macintosh, St. Joseph Bank offers you three easy ways to make your purchase. One way is to put no money down, take up to 24 months to repay and pay an annual 
percentage rate of only 14°/o. With attractive loan terms like this 
The Observer Wednesday, February 15, 1984-page 10 
Women 
continuedfrom page 12 
IH points, took a pass from guard Laura Dou~h~rty, and drov~ the baseline for a layup that gave Notre Dam~ a 69-62 lead. 
Picrc~ then converted a three­point play, and following a missed Laura Dougherty foul shot, guard Pat Nealy hit a I 5-foot bank shot to cut th~ Irish lead to 70-67 with 42 s~conds remaining. 
Following a Detroit timeout, Bas· ford got tied up in the backcourt, forcing anoth~r jump ball. The Lady Titans won the tap, but Nealy's shot was off, and Bat~s was in position for the r~bound. 

"W~ had trouble with th~ir dd~ns~. esp~cially lat~ in th~ game," said Basford, "b~caus~ they col· lapsed very well. Their quick, trap-I ping def~ns~ mad~ it very difficult for us to find p~opl~ op~n. 
"Their offens~ also caus~d us some problems, becaus~ they ar~ a one-on-on~ team. They don't pass the ball much. lnst~ad it's usually one person driving to the bask~t. That makes it difficult for us to get into our transition gam~." 

Although DiStanislao was g~n~ral­ly pl~ased with the t~am's effort, she was careful not to overestimate the importance of last night's victory. 
"I was pleased with the depth that we showed tonight. We got quality play from both our starters and bench players. Mary Beth (Schueth) and Carrie (Bates) played very well for us, and Lavetta (Willis) gave us a ' big lift. Denise (Basford), Ruth ( Kaiser), and Lynn (Ebben) also played very well for us in spot roles. Trena (Keys) didn't get into a groove (sh~ finished with H points and fouled out with 4:49 remain­ing), hut she did a solid job defensively in a tough matchup with Pack (Detroit's leading scorer.) As far as the rest of the season goes, we'll take it one game at a time." 
Notre Dame's next game is Satur­day, on the road, a~ainst these ~ame Lady Titans, and DiStanislao knows it will he a tough one. "Facing Detroit in Detroit will be a war, and we're looking forward to it. We'll really have to play intelligent· ly, t and be more careful about tur­novers. Tonight we made two quick mistakes, and they got right back in the game. We'll have to play as well as we possibly can to win the next one" 
Yesterday's Results Notre Dame women 72, Detroit women 67 Detroit women (67) 
M  FG·A  FT·A  R  F  P  
Pack  34  6-17  1·2  8  I  13  
Howard  37  5·9  4-5  8  3  14  
Tennant  25  1·9  2·2  9  2  4  
P1erce  39  9·25  5·5  5  3  23  
Nealy  31  3·8  2·2  I  0  8  
Pearce  23  2·6  1·2  2  5  5  
Hughes  9  0·1  0·0  I  2  0  
Hawk1ns  2  0·1  0·0  0  0  0  
200 26-76 15-18  34  13  67  
FG  Pet  342.  FT  Pet  ·  833.  Team  

rebounds· 4 Turnovers· 9. Ass1sts · 3 (Nealy 2). Techmeals · None Notre Dame women (72) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Keys 16 4-8 0·0 2 5 8 Bates 33 5·7 4-4 6 0 14 Schueth 31 8·15 2·2 It I I8 Dougherty 28 2·9 2·4 3 2 6 Basford 34 2-4 0-1 2 1 4 Ebben 4 0·0 0·0 2 2 0 Thompson I8 0·0 0·0 I I 0 Ka1ser I B 5·9 0·0 I I 10 W1lhs 18 6-9 0·0 9 4 14 200 32-61 8-11 37 17 72 
FG Pet. .525 FT Pet. · .727. Team rebounds · 7 Turnovers · 17 Ass1sts · 15 (Dougherty B). Teehmcals ·None 
Halftime Notre Dame 38. Detroit 37. Offi· c1als ·Ron Applegate. Marcy Weston A· 255. 

ALL LATEST 
DIRECT 
SALES 
COMICS 
AVAILABLE THURSDAY AT 
6:00P.M. 
Also, hard to find back issues 
~JU~\O~JUll 
STORE 1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BENO. 2J.t-10Ja a,..· ... n.w. l.l.hi. IN, S.t. t-1 
ACCENT YOUR LIFE 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
SUMMER PROGRAMS 
ND-SMC STUDENTS 
LONOON 
ROME 
May 23 ·June 22 F==oCc"'):dJune 17 ·July 16 
Trauel in Ireland Trauel in France 
Scotland &France Germany& Sullzerland 
Courses in Art, Biology, Business, History Italian, Music, Sociology, and Theatre f.~ 
~ /(

Informational meeting: Feb. 27th _:.d._.-/ 
Rm 249 Madeleva (SMC) 
Passport pictures will be For further info. call taken Prof. A.R. Black 4460 or 272-3726 
'~iC'-11 1_./,~~"-• ! 
{/:~ I J ~ I 
~ 't;2._ Q~\ · ..")1-g~ 

CHIMES 
The St. Mary's College literary magazine is now accepting manuscripts for its spring issue. 
SUBMIT: POEMS-STORIES-PLAYS 
photography-art work To: CHIMES c/o Wester 
310 Madeleva Hall St. Mary's College Deadline: March 12 
Student Vnion takes you to.•• 
Ff. LAUDERDALE 
7 nights at Sheraton Yankee Trader Round trip Motor Coach $90 
Total Package Plus many more activities and excursions! For more info, call NDSU at 239-7757 
~
- Informational Meeting  
~~  o  LaFortune little Theatre  
.._,  ~  Thurs., Feb.16 6pm  
......, ......  

Political Buffs and Glenn Supporters 
STUDENT BLITZ FOR GLENN! 
Excellent opportunity to take part in an all ex­penses paid student campaign in Davenport, Dubuque, and Burlington, Ia. on weekend before key Iowa caucus. Organized through Chicago Glenn for President headquarters by Tom Joyce, chairman of Jimmy Carter's successful New York state campaign in 1980. Chartered bus will leave Main Circle on Friday, Feb. 17 at 5pm and return Saturday night. We need 40 people minimum per bus, so sign up now to guarantee seating. Call AI at 277-0911 for more info. Go Glenn! 
Spring Break in Daytona Beach 
INCLUDES 

•
Round trip motor coach transportation to beautiful Daytona Beach. Florida 

•
FREE refreshments on the way down [the party starts here. J 

•
8Fiorida days/7 endless nights at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels, located right on the strip. 

•
A full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day. 

•
A full list of pre-arranged discounts to save you money in Daytona Beach. ' 

•Travel 
representatives to insure a smooth tnp and a good 



time. ·optional side excursions to Disney World. Epcot. deep sea fishing, etc. 
•All taxes and tips. 
YOU CANNOT FIND A BETIER DEAL OR A BETIER TIME OVER SPRING BRF.AK For further information and sign up THE BEST DEAL TO DAYTONA BEACH Call F::1ul at 283-4358 
$195 
ND/SMC Students 
PARTY 
~~.cllC3L~-----------------------------------~-e_d_n_e~--ay_,_F_eb_ru P_~
__ruy__1_5_,_19-8-4--__ __e__ll 

Mellish 

Guindon 
C!6AR6m5 ?/OffM!? HAl H~ I 1Hf1r'5 (#£AII PI-MOST ffJ FUNNY AS YOU 
WMPIN' AU. YOUR l£AI/€.5 IN lrff UIICI<YARL7 LASI FA/..1.. .' Hfl.' HAl YA WArff 50Mfi. CIGS, tli ?... 
'-..__., 

liE lo/ANTEP Ttl 5El A MERE BASKET If litiS T/IKNlb INTtl A 
GDIIKfiiH CHIN!st DtlitiU rt/11 TIIIO·THOVWID HVNOKY SW>tNTsf 
If VO/J fA!IIl LOll TDWA(~S THE NtltllfMS TO WITNESJ TillS AllfSIJME SI6Hr... 
\ ~~rm!,l A TKAl'' \l) "v/ INtlf~l~ 
1 

AIIO!JNDI"!'
""......,'':" GOLL1 . 
~ 
A111M<~ 

Richard Guindon Berke Breathed 

NICE 5Wr-1' YA 1HAr-II<S ALOT; 10M. HO~ 'rtJUR fRfi.P. ANP SC\'1 GOC5 f-A5Y I HOP£ YOUR ON YA. !IAUGHTf-R / MAI?I?If.5 
'BOY Gf.OI?G€." 
\ h
<(']-,) 
Dave&Dave 
t.JOI.JifVDW flll'P HI, IM PDIVAIP 
ILOV£ JT!I LOVE HI
Ltlf! A SMGOESTIIN i'IEIIISH AND 
YOU ASKED m IT, OtiiALD
Ftfll'l Till AriiENtE I'~ liKE Tl SO 
MElliSH!

fDl NUT WEEKi THf ~IDEN /JII# 5HOW. W, YDUNo DfSTKOV£0 ANI! MAli? \ Rl8111T IN THIIU 
PAYS. 

~~[11~. \ 


The Far Side Gary larson 

"Hold it right there, Charles! ... Not on our first 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 30 Olympic 63 Entree in skating Rouen 1 Highly 
champion 64 Author skilled 32 "-Camera" Kingsley6 Ego 33 Angers 65 Singing10 Animal 
35 Posture group
performer 

in yoga 66 Feds 
14 Contempo· 67 Court
39 Coloring rary of aids procedure Matisse 
41 Lured 68 Swiss 15 Autocrat 43 lt. poet 
cheese 16 Without of old 
feature purpose 44 Posycon· 69 Make by 17 Valuable 
tainer working violin 46 A Scott 70 Tolkien 47 Unsuitable beings
18 Pet of the 
49 Steps on 71 Bakery
screen 

the gas ingredient
19 Boutique 
51 Malicious DOWN name person 1 Alack's
20 Certain way 
54 Loathing partner
22 Otherwise 
2 --tasse

23 Veer 
56 Huron's 3 Mildoath
24 Green newts 
neighbor 4 Roseof 26 Chest part 57 Bows out baseball 

TONIGHT AND 
• 
5 "Valse-" 6 Bart or Ringo 7 Gist 8 Off sched­ule 9 Brother to Nero 10 Together 11 Roman magistrate 

12 Commune in Belgium 13 Stringed instruments 21 Wherethe 
shroud is 25 Nastykid 26 Reference 
book: abbr. 27-avis 
28 Amofol· lower 
date, you don't!" 
29 Stopover 50 Fine and 31 Exploits dandy 34 Invitation 51 Brink 
letters 52 Smell 36 Port in 53 Saltpeter 
Israel 55 Church 37 Exigency sections 38 Tots 58 Fed 40 Charlie's 59 Clog 
wife 60 City in 42 Orioles' Kansas 

homes 61 Fades away 45 Infidel 62 Formerly, 48 Eur. region once 
Tue~ay's Solution 



BEER SPECIAL 
TOMORROW NIGHT Notre Dame 
7:00,9:15, 11:30 
$1.00 Engineering Auditorium 

Bar will be closed D.J. Sat., Feb. 18. Mike Dandurand 
Presented by: 

Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Immunogenetics," Dr. Roger Nelvold, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Data Com­munication, 115 CCMB 

•4:20 
-Physics Colloquium, "Proton Decay,", Prof. David R. Winn, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Truth and Power in the Discourse of Socrates," Pro( Gerald L Bruns, 208 O'Shaughnessy 

•7 
p.m. -MUN Organizational Meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "A Girl in Every Port," O'Shaughnessy Loft 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Redressing Injustice: What Can We Do?"Fr. G. Kleba, Stapleton Lounge 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Marathon Man," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Moses to Marx: On How To Confound Interest," Prof. Andre Goddu, Library Lounge 

•8
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs Pittsburgh, ACC 


TV Tonight 
6p.m. 

6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 

7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 

9p.m. 9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 34 Straight Talk 16 Real People 22 "Gone With The Wind" 28 1984 Winter Olympics 34 National Geographic 16 Facts ofLife 16 Night Court 16 St. Elsewhere 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 
22 Police Story/CBS Late Movie 28 Thicke of the Night 
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2115/84All Rights Reserved 
.. 

WEDNESDAY 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Sports 

Carrie Bates, shown here scoring two of her game-total 14 points, helped Notre Dame's women's basketball team defeat the Titans of Detroit last night at the ACC. Bates t hit two clutch 
Notre Dame women down Detroit in closing seconds of 72-67 win 
By LARRY BURKE 
.\ports Writer 
The Notre Dame's women's bas­ketball team won their second straight game last night, downing the Lady Titans of the University of Detroit, 72-67. In so doing, the: Irish raised their overall record to I 0-12, and their North Star Conference record to 4-.2, good for second place in the: conference. 
But they sure did it the hard way. 
It wasn't until Carrie Bates hit two free throws with 21 seconds remain­ing that the Notre Dame victory was safely in hand. Moments earlier, Bates had been fouled by Detroit guard Monica Hughes after pulling down a crucial rebound that 
Pitt visits ACC 

prevented the Lady Titans from cut­ting the Irish lead to one. 
Less than four minutes earlier, Notre Dame had been leading by ten points, 66-56, and seemed to be on the way to an easy win. Detroit con­tinued to do what it had been doing all night long, however -capitaliz­ing on Irish mistakes -to get back in the game. 
Notre Dame turned the ball over on their next three possessions, while Detroit forward Cassandra Pack scored on a layup and guard Regina Pierce hit an 18-foot jumper to get the Lady Titans back on track. Pierce then tied up Irish guard Denise Basford to force a jump ball. Detroit won the tap, and forward Bridget Howard was fouled by Notre Dame's Lavetta Willis. The Detroit sophomore hit both free throws to cut the lead to four with 2:02 remaining. 
"Detroit is a very volatile team, a very quick team," said Irish coach Mary DiStanislao of Dewayne jones' Lady Titans. "We're getting better at putting ourselves in a position to take control of the game. But we made some bad mistakes, and Detroit is the type of team that you can't atford to do that against. They are very quick to capitalize." 
Detroit couldn't capitalize on Notre Dame's mistakes for long, however. Irish center Mary Beth Schueth, who led Notre Dame with 
see WOMEN,page 10 

Irish ready to meet the Panthers 
By PHIL WOLF 
.\ports Writer 
The: Notre Dame basketball team's game tonight at 8 p.m. appears to be a case of dejt1 vu for the Irish as Coa(·h Roy Chipman will bring his 
Pittsburgh Panthers to the ACC. 
Once: again, Notre Dame will be up against a team which is in some­what of a slump. Pitt, although I3-8 ovt·rall after upsetting Villanova on Saturday. ha~ lost four of its last six games -stmilar to the slumps that Rutgers and South Carolina had bl·en expl·riencing before meeting Notre Dame. 
The: key to the game for the 15-8 Irish will be shutting down the Pan­

... thers' high-scorer, forward Clyde Vaughan. This situation is very familiar to the Notre Dame defense, which. on several occa<>ioos this year, has silenced the big guns of its opponents. Vaughan, a 6-4 senior, is averaging 
20.7 points per game this season on 45-percent sh<X>ting from the floor and 80 pen:ent from the line. Jle also leads Pitt in rebounding, pulling down an average of 8. 5 boards each contest. 
Last year, Vaughan contributed a team-high 17 points in the Panthers' 60-54 defeat at the hands ofthe Irish at Pittsburgh's Civic Arena 
Pitt's other big offensive threat is junior George Allen. The six-foot guard is racking up points at a clip of 
10.4 per game. 

Joining Vaughan on the front line will be 6-8 forward Andre Williams 
(7.2 ppg) and 6-9 center Keith Armstrong ( 5.8 ppg). 
Allen's mate in the backcourt will be senior Billy Culbertson, who leads the team in a~ists, with III, and also contributes 6. 5 points per game to the Panthers' cause. 
Pitt's top substitute is Chip Wat­kins. This 6-7 forward has been par­ticularly strong lately on the boards, averaging almost six rebounds each game, while averaging 5.6 points per game off the bench. 
Once again, Notre Dame's offense should be led by captain Tom Sluby. The senior swingman is averaging 
16.8 points per game for the Irish. 

The front line for the Irish probab­ly will consist of Ken Barlow, Jim Dolan, and Donald Royal. At 6-I 0, 6­8, and 6-7, respectively, these big men should be able to handle the smaller Pitt front line. JoJo Buc­hanan will join Sluby in the back­court, while Joe Howard, joseph Price, and Cecil Rucker should be the first players off the bench for Notre Dame. 
The Irish currently are ranked second in the nation in team defense and fifth in rebounding, so they ob­viously have the necessary tools to beat the Panthers. 
Ofcourse, coach Digger Phelps is without his "rock" in the middle, Tim Kempton, who is sitting out with a stres.<> fracture ofhis right leg. 
That means the Irish must make up for Kempton's 9.6 points and 6.5 rebounds per game. 
Donald Royal, who has replaced Kempton in the starting lineup, two inches shorter and 40 pounds lighter to the 6-9, 245-pound regular. Kempton's bulk was certain­ly missed in last Saturday's phyical game against DePaul. 
"VVe're a different team without Kempton," Phelps says. "We can't play the physical game we like with­out him." 
Phelps also points out that the Irish will have to overcome another obstacle tonight. 
"We're a different team without Kempton," Phelps says. "We can't play the physical game we like with­out him." 
Phelps also points out that the Irish will have to overcome another obstacle tonight. 
"I think Notre Dame brings the best out ofanybody," the Irish coach says. "That's just what we go through no matter who we play. When you're playing for Notre Dame, the team you play against really wants to beat you." 
Chipman agrees that his team will be excited about playing the Irish. 
"Certainly our kids will be fired up for this game even though it doesn't involve our league season," Chipman says. They still think they should have beaten them (the Irish) in Pittsburgh last year." 
Wednesday, February 15, 1984-page 12 
Irish find themselves in 'must win' situation 

huck Freeby 
Bello again, everyb<XIy! 
This week's news from the ACC sounds like a johnny Carson monologue -there's some good news and some bad news. The good news is Digger Phelps' Irish basketball squad could still reach the plateau of 20 wins this season and possibly earn a berth in the NCAA tournament. Now the bad news ...to achieve that goal Notre Dame must win all five ofits remaining games. 
The task is not made any easier by the caliber of this week's op­position. Pittsburgh comes into the south dome ofthe ACC tonight, fresh from a 47-45 upset victory over Villanova on Saturday, and this veteran Panther club will be primed for the Irish. After tonight's contest, the Irish have to prepare for a trip to Provo, Utah to pay a visit to the 13-7 CougarsofBrigham Young, who have a much better squad than they showed lao;t Saturday against Georgetown. The 20· win gauntlet has ben set forth, and it is up to the Irish to respond to the challenge. 
Sloooooby Shines .. .It is most difficult to fathom what this Notre Dame t earn would be like without the outstanding play of team captain Tom Sluby. The 6-4 guard from Gonzaga High School in Washington, D.C. has been the leader of this young Irish club in more ways than scoring, although his 16.8 points-per-game average cenainly doesn't hun. Sluby is a quiCt leader, who prefers to lead by example, and he has set quite an example ofperseverencc: during his four-year career. 
During the first three years of his career, Sluby scored only 308 points and seemed to be haunted by the tab of "the next Adrian Dantley," which wa<; given to him by some members of the: media. However, after an impressive display in the Yugoslavian tour last summer, Sluby was named team captain by Phelps. With the spot­light glaring upon him this year, Sluby hao; shone brightly, lighting up the faces ofIrish fans. 
Panthers on the Prowl_ ..While Sluby has been the: star of the Irish program. Pittsburgh has looked to their outstanding 6-4 for­ward Clyde Vaughan. While the Panther publicity department boa<>ts that Vaughan gets no respect (they even staged photos of Vaughan with Rodney Dangerfield), he certainly deserves some since he boasts a 20.7 points per game average. 
However, Vaughan is not the only player deserving attention on Roy Chipman's 13-8 club, as the Pitt mentor hao; both members of last year's starting backcourt on the squad again. Look for junior guard George Allen to try his share of jumpers from the outside, while senior Billy Culbertson will direct the attack from the: point. 
Last week, Chipman referred to his team as an "ao;ylum" after suspending center Jeff Robinson for calling the Pitt coach a liar. However, it could be the Irish the Irish who go crazy if they cannot control Vaughan tonight. 
Cougar Clippings ...For those of you with short memories (or those who would rather forget) let's remind you ofwhat happened the last time Notre Dame faced BYll. It was in the regional semifinals ofthe NCAA tournament in Atlanta, and the Irish at one time led by as many as 14 points in the second half However, the Cougars clawed their way back and came away with a 51-.50 victory when Danny Ainge did a surpentine drill down the court and sank a jumper over the outstretched fingers of Orlando Woolridge: with two seconds left. 
Now, Ainge is gone, but BYU may have an even better player in Devin Durrant. Durrant leads the nation in S<:oring with a 29.2 points per game average, but he is not, unstoppable a~ Georgetown proved la<>t Saturday when they held the 6-7 forward to a season-low 13 points. However, Durrant is not the only prominent player on LadeII Anderson's 13-7 team. 6-7 forward Brett Applegate is one of the: na­tion's premier rebounders, averaging 12.2 per contest, and the Irish must keep him offthe offensive boards, where he scores most ofhis points. 
Bvt_: is an explosive club, averaging over 80 points a game, and they aiS<> are one ofthe nation's best teams from the foul line, which means the Irish don't want to get in a free-throw-shooting contest Saturday afternoon. 1-Jopefully, a strong defensive performance by the Irish will dt·tonate the Cougar bombers. 
Irish Try To Regroup_ ..After losing three oftheir last four con­tests, Phelps' team will try to get its act together. It wa<> obvious on Saturday against DePaul how much Tim Kempton means to this Irish squad. The 6-9 S<>phomore is out ofthe lineup indefinitely with a soft ca<;t on his leg, after suffering a stress fracture in the loss to Rutgers. This is not a slap against Donald Royal or Cecil Rucker, but Kempton's strength inside really will be missed in physical games. 
Hopefully, the Irish will be able to remedy their road problems this week in the Marriott Center in Provo. The Irish have bt·en ab­solutely deplorable away from the friendly confines of the ACC this year, winning only two of eight contests on the road. Some may argue that nob<XIy has blown out the Irish on the road, but the bot­tom line is that most of those close games have resulted in losses. With three oftheir la'it five game .son the: road, the Irish must rectify this situation immediately. 
Pick ofthe Week ...Wrestling action returns to the ACC Friday night when Tihamer Toth-Fejel's 13-4 Irish grapplers play host to a pair of rivals, as Purdue and Marquette come to town for a meet starting at 7:30p.m. 
Th t ere won't be any folks thrown into the turnbuckles, no flying backdrops, no cage matches and no folks wearing masks like the wrestling you see on television, but there will be plenty ofaggressive 
action on the ACC mats 








