~~ -------~------.. 
Flying high -page 8 


1bc O~rvcr/Carol Gales 
Reagan won 6/ percent ofthe vote, defeating Wal­ter Mondale. Story atright. 

Reagan defeats Mondale handily in Mock Election 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY Reagan would capture 70 percent of StaffReporter the vote, but he said, "Brogioli should be happy it wasn't a larger 
Walter Mondale should "start landslide. looking for a job" said Bill Healy "Mondale made the election a after Notre Dame students went and question of leadership, and Reagan's won one for the Gipper in yester­proven he's good at that," Healy said. day's Mock Election. The students also voted on several 
By a margin of 61.3 percent to issues. 
36.1 p~rcent, President Ronald They rejected the Equal Rights Reagan defeated former Vice Presi­Amendment with 53.5 percent op­dent Walter Mondale. posing the ERA and 43.2 percent 
Healy, the representative for favoring the amendment. Reagan/Bush on campus, said the win was "fantastic." Brogioli said, "Conservative men 
Mike Brogioli, the tend not to like the ERA." Approxi­Mondale/Ferraro representative for mately 79 percent of the voters Notre Dame, said, "It ain't over. The were male. Bill Healy said he was real election is on Tuesday. And the glad to hear of the amendment's 61 percent still have . a chance to rejection by the students. Reagan redeem themselves." opposes the ERA; Mondale supports 
Brogioli said, "We lost, but I'm not it. disappointed. If they really think By an overwhelming majority, the about the issues, Mondale will win. students support some type of nu­It's important to note that we are a clear freeze. Twenty-two percent fa· predominately white, upper class, vor a unilateral freeze, while 57 male and Catholic university." percent support a bilateral freeze 
Healy said, "The national cam­and 2 I percent favor no freeze. paign headquarters for Reagan/Bush On the question ofthe placement was very enthusiastic about the of weapons in space, 56.6 percent numbers. It's good to be on a win· opposed the idea, and 39.6 percent ning team. Notre Dame is strongly favored it. for Reagan." 
LaFortune Student Center. President Ronald 
Healy had earlier predicted see GIPPER, page 4 
David predicts passage of Dry Driving Club resolution 
ByMARYCAROLCREADON 
StaffReporter 
A resolution calling for the forma· tion of a Dry Driving Club will be presented to Student Senate at its Monday meeting, said Cathy David, student body vice president, who is confident the measure will pass. 
A student participating in a Dry Driving Club may receive free coffee or soft drinks at a restaurant or bar, after agreeing to refrain from alco­hol so to drive others in his group home. 
Marquette University instituted such a program this year to help reduce the number of alcohol­related accidents in the Milwaukee area. 
"The resolution \\ill pass easily," said David. "We think it's a great idea, and the recent focus on drunk driving has caused us to take a more responsible look at what we must do . about it. We are all touched by drunk driving. There have already been three bad accident~ this year at school and we can no longer just stand by," she said. 
David and Rob Bertino, student body president, plan to meet with South Bend Mayor Roger Parent soon to discuss plans for starting the club. David said they will be calling on the Five Points taverns to seek sponsorship by Corby's, Kenny and Nickie's, Bridget's and the Com­mons. 
They also hope to have Senior Bar, H.I.'s, Chip's and the Marriott and restaurants such as Azar's and Denny's sponsor the program. 
David said she and Bertino will ex­plain to bar and restaurant owners that the sponsor's fee of S85 to help cover promotional expenses is a "material commitment that they can make to the community against drunk driving." 
David said she believes the Gover­nor's Task Force To Prevent Drunk Driving will be very supportive of the club as will such national organi­zations as Mothers Against Drunk Driving and Students Against Drunk Driving. 
"The administration will probably support the program, too," she said. "It's becoming a real problem with everyone going off campus. The so­cial life has turned." 
Approximately 25,000 deaths result from alcohol-related traffic accidents each year, and among per· sons under the age of 24, drunk driving is the leading cause of death in this country, according to infor­mation David received from Don Todd, dub founder. 
She hopes students will be sup­portive of the club, and she srud she is not worried about people abusing the program since Todd claims no one has abused the system else­where. 

Marketing of candidates represents drastic change, says McCarthy 
By ANN KALTENBACH "When I was in college, poll taxes restricted people News Staff from voting. No federal aid was given to public schools, and Social Security and Medicare were nonexistent for 
The mass media's ability to sell an image of a can­women. Government has changed all of this," she said. didate may be the most drastic change in the American McCarthy discussed the increasing amounts of electoral process in recent years, said Abigail McCarthy money being poured into political campaigns, noting last night in Saint Mary's Stapleton Lounge. that the average House election today costs approxi· 
Decrying how politicians are marketed as if they mately S I million. were consumer goods, McCarthy said, "What works to "In 1948, my husband got a S 1 00 contribution from sell anything is used for a candidate. If our electoral the Democratic National Committee, and we thought process is to continue, we must get control of this." that was respectable," she said. 
She also lamented the laziness ofmany who work in "Now, the large scale campaigns being conducted are the news media: "Today's investigative journalist fails to possible because of television. TV requires the use of sort out what is and isn't important." political consultants and they have altered the picture 
McCarthy, wife of former Minnesota Sen. Eugene of campaigns." McCarthy, gave the 1984 commencement address at McCarthy said that in 1948, campaigns were con· the College. trolled by the political parties. She suggested, however, 
Addressing the changing ofthe election process from that this control ha<> shifted, partly because of rising 
"Baby Fae," the infant recipient of the transplanted heart ofa
her perspective as a wife of a senator, she told the media power. 
baboon is shouon in thisphotu made this week at Loma Linda Uni­
largely student-attended audience, "You see things in a 
versity in California. Doctors say they will seek a human heart if
different light than I did in my lifetime. see McCARTHY, page 6 
the baby rejects the transplant. Story on page 4. 

The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 2 

With oll prices down to less than S29 a barrel and natural gas prices stabilizing after five years of sharp increases, Americans seem to be losing some of their zeal for conserving en­ergy, according to newly released government figures. A report by the Energy Information Administration says per capita U.S. energy consumption dropped only 2.4 percent in 1983, compared with an­nual declines of 4 percent to 7 percent in the previous three years. The report was issued just as the Organization ofPetroleum Export­ing Countries concluded an emergency meeting in Geneva, Switzer­land, where the cartel made cosmetic cuts in oil production in an effort to prop up their posted price of S29 a barrel against discounts of Sl.50 to S2 discounts offered by many producers. -AP 
Continuing a trendbegun in the 1960s, Americans are becoming less mobile, with the percentage making both short and long moves declining, the Census Bureau reported yesterday. The bureau found that 16.1 percent ofAmericans changed residence in the 12 months ending in March 1983. That was down from 16.6 percent who moved in the same period in 1981-82. Twenty years ago, the bureau said, one American in five was changing residences annually. Since then, the number has declined steadily. -AP 
More than 1 million birthcontrolpillsarebeing recalled by pharmaceutical manufacturer G.D. Searle because low­strength counterfeit versions which may not prevent pregnancy have been distributed, the Food and Drug Administration said yes­terday. The FDA is investigating the counterfeiting and has informed the FBI of the problem. The supplier of the counterfeit versions of two lots ofOvulen-21 has not been located. The company, which is based in Skokie, Ill., is recalling voluntarily all packages ofOvulen-21 with the lot numbers 441 and 489 following the expiration date on the right side ofthe foil blister pack which contains the tablets. -AP 
A high school gym teacher who showed 
her students a video of bare-chested male aerobics dancers was or­dered to be rehired yesterday. An lllinois Education Board examiner had found the video "inappropriate" for viewing by teen-age girls, and that teacher Alice Zook was guilty ofmisconduct for showing it, said David Thompson, a board lawyer. But examiner Lawrence Cohen ruled that trustees ofUmestone High School in Bartonville, a Peoria suburb, went too far by firing Zook last April, Thompson said. Zook was fired for showing the girls "Muscles in Motion," an hour­long video of the Chippendales, a Los Angeles-based male dance troupe. -AP 
Of Interest 
"Where's Carroll Hall?It'snotfar,andit'susuallynot haunted. But it will be tonight, and all are invited to take a tour through its dark passages from 8 until midnight. Cost is 50 cents per person. -The Obseroer 
Analyzing election issues and assessing the 
candidates will be the objective of a workshop tomorrow at Saint Mary's. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry and the Sisters of the Holy Cross, "Election '84: Faith and Issues" begins at 10 a.m. in the north lounge ofRegina Hall. Sister Catherine Brisseau, a member of Network, a Catholic social justice lobbying group, will give lead the three-hour session.-The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Chorale wm present its annual 
Fall Concert tomorrow night at 8:1 5. The concert will be performed 
in Washington Hall, and admission is free.-The Obseroer 
' 

Weather 
At least the sun's out. But it will be cool today with a high in the mid 40s. Winds will shift to the southeast at 10 mph tonight, with the skies clear. Low in the low or mid 30s. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow with the high approaching 60. -AP 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, excq>t during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Sub~criptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing 'Ibe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer i~ a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rescl"\\ed. 
-o:.,-,.l 
I 

Design Edttor......................... Chris Bowler Desig" Assistant...................John Mennen Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck 
Dave Grote Neu'S Editor....................... Mark Worscheh Copy Editor ......................... Keith Harrison Sports Copy Editor....... Bob Vonderheide Sports .\pedal Layout....,..... Mike Sullivan 
Chris Bowler Vfeupoint Layout................john Mennen Viewpoint Cop)• Editor......... Paul Cimino Features Copy Editor............... Cat Francis Features Layout.....·-········· Kevin \l'illiam~ 
!VD Day Editor...................... Aimee Storrin SMC Day Editor ........................ Shirley Ore Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix TJ'fJist ........................................ Kim Tyschen Pbotograpber............................ Carol Gales 


The conservative coalition between young and old 
One ofthe most historically significant aspects ofthis election year is the conservative coalition formed be­tween the younger generation and the older genera­tion. The middle-aged generation, a product of the social protests and liberal lifestyles of the 1960 s. have awoken to find themselves outflanked and outnum­bered. 
The conservative character of today's young genera­tion mystifies those middle-aged former-rebels who fought to alter the moral fabric ofour nation. As college students, they protested against the social evils they found embodied in business, politics, and law-reject­ing the status quo and fighting for an ideal world. But 
things  have  changed.  In  our  day college  students  
protest  alcohol  policies,  not  environmental  waste.  
Why?  

It seems today's young generation has been shaped by an environment paralleling that of the 1930s and 40 s -an environment rocked by economic depression, international embarrass­ment, and an unpromising future. Ironically, it seems the social changes wrought by the middle-aged genera­tion itself helped shape this 
Dave Grote 
Viewpoint Editor 
Inside Frida 

the 1930s. In 1980• inflation was out of control. The young generation watched as inflation diminished the standard ofliving of American families. 
How would they buy homes with a 21 percent prime interest rate? How would they be able to afford driving cars while at the mercy of high-priced Arab oil? They faced a future without promise. 
The young generation of today also saw the United States internationally embarrassed and helpless. They watched as Iran held America hostage, manipulating 
American leaders, and leaving the U.S. mired in im­potence -an impotence af­firmed by a failed rescue mission. 
We have matured in the 
environment. long shadow cast by the 
In the 1930s, the United prospect of nuclear destruc­States was a nation gripped tion. Like our counterparts by the abject poverty ofThe in the 1930s, we have been Depression. Subject to molded by by anger, embar­widespread unemployment, rassment, and fear. hunger, and business stagna­The liberal social stand­tion, the American populace ards produced by the was transformed into a des­middle-aged generation has pondent, beaten dog. The added a different dimension economy sputtered for a de­-social insecurity. Dealing cade until the war economy with the sexual revolution, ofthe 1940s finally pushed it with the new roles it has 
back on uack. The genera­tion which matured in this atmosphere remembered the hunger and the insecurity that poverty wrought. 
The surprise attack on Pearl Harbor byJapan, a back­ward island nation, shocked an economically resurgent American nation, and with the fall ofEurope, the United States seemed left to facejapan and Germany alone. Out of this international embarrassment and portending danger rose an angered America. 
By the end of World War II, this generation had reached maturity. It was molded by the hunger and poverty of the Depression, the embarrassment and helplessness of Pearl Harbor, and the terror of world aggression. It is this ger.c:ration, economically insecure and overbearingly indiviualistic, that built the booming economy of the 19S0s and 60 s. 
The recession of the 197u ~. with its rising un­employment, 13 percent inflation, and 21 percent in­terest rates, fostered economic insecurity among young people in much the same way as the Depression had in 
produced for both men and women, and with the break­down offamily life has shaken the young generation. 
The young people of today, hardened by economic despair, by national humiliation, by the threat of war, and by social revolution, have been forced into maturity -prematurely. For the first time in American history a generation faces the prospect of a standard of living less than that of their parents. 
Fueled by their past, young people today are am­bitious and hardworking. They refuse to accept mediocrity. They are people dedicated to insuring themselves of a world that is economically, politically, and socially secure. Young people today have placed their confidence in their own abilities. They are dedi­cated to solving problems and controlling their own destinies. 
The middle-aged generation wonders why college students today do not protest anymore. Well, maybe it's easier to protest for the whales when unemployment is 4 percent. When my generation gets it there again, maybe the protesters will return. 


PIZZA HUT SPECIAL DELIVERYII HERE NOWII Join America's Leading Pizza Chain 
We have full and part-time positions available for: Telephone operators•Cooks.Oelivery Drivers 
Drivers must be 18 with a valid driver's license, proof of insurance and reliable transportation. You can make between $3.35 and $8.00 an hour in 
wages, tips and commission.  
APPLY:  2406 Schumacher, Mish.  
Between 2 p.m and 8 p.m.  315 Lincolnway West, Mish. 3608 W. Western, So. Bend  

-~ -~ ------­
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 3 

serving a 210-year sentence for armed robbery, is an independentcandidatefor the U.S. Senate. 
WSND-FM joins national network 
By CAROL BROWN 
News Staff 
Classical music fans may an­ticipate a special live broadcast from Vienna, Au"'tria, on New Year's Eve because WSND-FM has recendy joined the American Public Radio network. 
WSND-FM is the University­owned and operated classical radio station. 
American Public Radio is "like Na­tional Public Radio in that it acts as a national distributor of privately produced shows," according to sta­tion manager Steve Wimmer. Yet unlike National Public Radio, it "concentrates its programming on music rather than news and informa­tion," Wimmer said. 
He said one reason for joining tion. American Public Radio, a American Public Radio is it fills the satellite network, will give WSND­University requirement of broad­FM access to an "extremely wide casting a certain percentage ofnews sampling ofsome ofthe finest music and informational programming, performed today," Wimmer said. while still preserving and contribu­He said the station will be able to ting to the musical interests of the "pick and choose from many pro­station. grams." Included among these pro­
Economic advantages also con­grams are live broadcasts and a tributed to the decision to join the range of shows from around the network, Wimmer said. world. 
Tape rentals and syndication costs Wimmer is optimistic about will be eliminated, since American WSND-FM's future with the Ameri­Public Radio will provide WSND-FM can Public Radio network, but said with its programming materials. that "no one really knows" what will Wimmer emphasized the program's happen until the program actually cost e1fectiveness, stating "it really begins. does save thousands ofdollars." The program will start when a 
A key benefit, according to Wim­satellite dish is installed. Wimmer mer, is the diversification American anticipates this will be "anytime Public Radio will provide the sta-soon." 
Chair in int'l business established 
Spedal to The Observer of its founder, the late Ray Herrick serves as President of Tecumseh 
and his son, Kenneth Herrick. Ray Products Co. 
The Ray W. and Kenneth G. Her-Herrick founded the Tecumseh "We are indebted to the Herrick rick Chair in International Business Products Co., Tecumseh, Michigan, family for its generosity in furthering has been established at Notre Dame in 1934 and established the Herrick Notre Dame's commitment to the by a Michigan family with business Foundation in 1949. Kenneth Her­study ofinternational business," said interests in the air conditioning in-rick currently serves as chairman of University President Father dustry and philanthropic interests in the board and chief executive offi­Theodore Hesburgh. "Although the education, hospitals and health and cer of Tecumseh Products Co., a roots of our College Business Ad­welfare agencies. manufacturer of small engines and ministration were in foreign and 
The Herrick Chair in International compressors for the air conditioning domestic commerce, it is now more Business is underwritten by the Her-industry. His son, Todd Herrick, is a important than ever that we rick Foundation of Detroit in honor 1967 graduate of Notre Dame and strengthen this academic endeavor 
in the realization that we live and 
work in a world economy." 

It is the intent ofa search commit­
tee to fill the chair by the fall of Theindependentstudentnewspaper 1985. serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is 
Judicial Council tries to organize 
By BOB MUSSELMAN . 
News Staff 
The Judicial Council spent its weekly meeting last night in the Nieuwland Science Hall doing the same thing it did at the council's last meeting -establishing committees that will function for the rest of the year. 
At the council's last meeting, co­ordinator Bill Bergamo asked mem­bers to sign up for four committees established at the beginning of the year, but few bothered. Poor atten­dance was cited by Bergamo as the main reason for the low response. 
Eighteen members attended yes­terday's meeting, while only ten were present at last week's meeting. 
"If we don't get them organized and going soon, we might as wellbag the whole year," said Bergamo. He said the council needs to "prove to the campus that we are a working body and can get something done." 
Bergamo reminded the council he would be "leaving in December, hopefully," because of graduation. An assitant coordinator, who would succeed him, should be chosen soon so that he or she can "get used to the job before I take off," he said. 
Bergamo said he was preparing an application which would give the applicant some idea of the coordina­tor's job responsibilities, which he said was lacking in the past. He said this year's initial "power conflicts" may have resulted from a misun­derstanding as to what the coordina­tor was actually supposed to do. 
Specifically, he said the coordinator must represent a stu­dent who appears before Associate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick when requested to do so. For that reason, the coordinator must "know the rules around here." 
In addition, the coordinator oc­cupies a seat on the Student Senate and the Campus Life Council, and is 
responsible  for  holding  weekly  
meetings  and  overseeing  council  
projects.  

ND to install 8 profs in academic chairs 
Speclal to 1bcObserver 
In 1510, at England's Cambridge 
University, the first endowed profes­
sorship was established. Notre 
Dame did not have one until more 
than 450 years later. 
On Nov. 8, however, Notre Dame 
will install eight professors in 
endowed academic chairs, bringing 
the total number so honored to 32, 
including five persons holding 
chairs as visiting professors. Another 
13 chairs are fully funded with oc· 
cupants being sought. 
The eight chairs and their oc­
cupants to be honored by a banquet, 
preceded by a celebration of Mass, 
are as follows: 
•The 
John J. Cavanaugh Professor of Humanities, Frederick Crosson of the Department of Philosophy. 

•The 
Frank M. Freimann Professor Physics,John Dow. 

•The
John Cardinal O'Hara Profes­sor ofPhilosophy, Ernan McMullin. 

•The 
Frank O'Malley University Professor,John Gilligan. 

•
The Julius A. Nieuwland Profes­sor ofScience, J. Kerry Thomas, de­partment ofchemistry. 

•The 
Gilbert F. Schaefer Visiting Professor of Arts and Letters, Monique Begin ofthe department of economics. 

•The 
Andrew V. Tackes Professor of History, Walter Nugent. 

•The 
William P. and Hazel B. 


White Professor ofArts and Letters, Maureen Hallinan ofthe department ofsociology. 
The price tag for endowed profes­sorships has doubled from 1500,000 to II million -over the years, but the attraction for donors has remained strong. Since 196 7 when Notre Dame announced its first endowed professorship, the Universityhas made endowed chairs a cornerstone of faculty develop­ment, and its greatest success came during "The Campaign for Notre Dame" between 1975 and 1981 when 14 endowed professorships were filled and another 15 fully funded. 
Endowed chairs both enhance the academic enterprise and relieve a financial burden. They allow depart­ments either to recruit outside scholars preeminent in their field or to recognize the highest level of scholarship and teaching among their own faculty. (OfNotre Dame's 27 chairs with permanent appoint­ments, 1 7 candidates came from without the University and 10 were promoted from inside.) And be­cause endowed professorships are supported not from operating monies but from invested funds, they remove some of the most ex­pensive senior faculty positions from dependence on income such as tuition and tie them to appreciating 
funds. 
accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
eResponsible for production of news section one night per week. 
e Observer experience necessary. 
e Salaried position. Takes great pleasure in inviting you to it's First Annual Submit applilcations and a 
CHRISTMAS OPEN HOUSE
personal statement to Sarah Saturday, November Third, 10 a.m. 'til 5 p.m. 
or Dan by 5 p.m. Friday. For & Sunday, November Fourth, Noon 'til 5 p.m.
more information, call The Observer at 239-5313 
Experience the unexpected in fine gifts, art, and furnishing for the home. 
514 Lincolnway East Mishawaka, Indiana
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center 
255-9191 
Notre Dame, IN 46558 



-~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------­
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 4 
t 
~ 
r 
Doctors to search for human heart 
! 
if baboon heart fails in Baby Fae 

Associated Press 
LOMA UNDA, Calif. -Baby Fae was "doing great" yesterday as she neared the end ofher first week with a baboon's heart, while doctors said if she eventually rejects the organ, they will seek a human heart before another baboon donor. 
The 3-week-old, who received the controversial and historic transplant last Friday to replace her fatally un­derdeveloped heart, was in serious but stable condition yesterday, said spokesman Dick Weismeyer. 
She was "sucking on a pacifier, moving around, very active," he said. "She slept good (and) had pain medication only once during the night, and (there were) no signs of rejection." 
Baby Fae is the world's longest-lived survivor of an animal-to­human heart transplant, having surpassed the previous three and a half day record ofa South African ac­countant who received a transplanted chimp's heart. 
With Baby Fae showing no "ominous" signs ofrejection, "we're hoping things w~ll move very smoothly through this period," said Dr. David Hinshaw, a surgeon. 
Ifsigns of rejection develop, doc­tors will increase Fae's dosage of cyclosporine, an anti-rejection drug, Hinshaw said, noting that another transplant would be considered only if rejection cannot be con­trolled. 
Although obtaining a human donor would be difficult, "we would make every effort to seek such a heart," and would only use another baboon heart if a human heart was unavailable, Hinshaw said. 
Asked if Baby Fae's parents have consented to a second transplant of any kind, he replied: "I don't know whether they've been asked that." 
,Meanwhile, pediatrics chairman o~· David Mace said some news or­ganizations have tried offering money to Lorna Linda University Medical Center workers to learn the identities of Baby Fae and her par­ents, who have insisted on anonymity for themselves and the child. 
Mace said he understood that the National Enquirer had offered S10,000 for the information, but the tabloid's editor, lain Calder, denied the offer had been made. 
Curfew imposed in Franklin, Tenn. 
Associated Press 
FRANKUN, Tenn. -Authorities declared a state of emergency yes­terday after a Halloween night of es­calating violence between blacks and whites injured nine people, one ofthem seriously. 
Officials imposed a 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew and assigned 55 officers from town, state and county law enforce­ment agencies to patrol the streets during those hours. Normally, only 12 officers are on duty then. 
A series of shootings and beatings spanned a 3-hour period Wednesday night within a 12-square-block area of downtown in this Nashville sub­urb dotted with Victorian-style homes, antique stores and brick walkways. · 
Police said the violence was sparked when a .16-gauge shotgun was fired from a car into a crowd of people outside a black nightspot at about 11 p.m. Wednesday. 
Four blacks were injured in the shooting. In apparent retaliation a short time later, police said, two white men were shot, two others beaten and one man, Donald Donoho, was pulled from his car and beaten with bricks and rocks when he drove through a predominantly black section oftown. 
Donoho was listed in guarded condition with head injuries at a Nashville hospital. 
Police arrested two white teenagers, Dirk Pewitt, 18, and Usa Palmer, 19, who they said were in the car from which the initial shots were fired, and two white juveniles who were not identified. 
Pewitt was booked on four counts of assault with intent to murder and held on 150,000 bond. Palmer and the two juveniles were booked on accessory charges. She was held on S10,000 bond and the juveniles were released to their parents' cus­tody. 
Police arrested three other people on weapons charges. 
Franklin, with a population of about 13,000 people, is about 1 5 miles from Nashville. Police Chief Dave Lewis said it is "a calm, quiet town." 
APPbcto 
Piping up 
Los Angeles City Councilman ArtSnyder reacts to photographers tn City Council Chambers Tuesday where the council passed an ordinance which encourages the creation ofnon-smoking areas in workplaces, but exempts from enforcement the public areas of hotels, restaurants or bars. 
sw~"~ 
-ro~ 
8 p.m. O'Laughlin 


November 1, 2, 3, 4 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW! SAB Record Store Presale: $4.00 At Door: $5.00 
Hillbillies fight it out in Pennsylvania race 
Assodated Press 
ALTOONA, Pa.-Buddy Ebsen and Nancy Kulp, regulars on television's "The Beverly Hillbillies" in the 1960s, are embroiled in some real­life feudin' in her bid for a U.S. House seat. 
Gipper 
Continued from page 1 
Bmgioli said the students' support of the freeze places them in agree­ment "with Walter Mondale's posi­tion on the issue. This indicates to me Notre Dame students are sup­porting Ronald Reagan on the basis of something other than the major issue of our time." 
Of the voters, 55.8 percent favor the administration's overall foreign policy with 43 percent opposed, which Healy called "pretty good numbers." 
Healy did question the objectivity of the referendum's wording. "The referendum didn't have anything about Reagan's ecomonic pro­grams" which he said a big majority agree with. Healy also said the ques­tion on weapons in space should have clarified the weapons as defen­sive. 
The students supported by 89.7 percent to 7.9 percent putting con­trols on emissions to limit acid rain. 
Many of the voting percentages did not add up to 100 percent be­cause some students voted for write­in candidates and abstained on particular issues. 
In the final days of the campaign, Brogioli said he will be in Michigan campaigning for Mondale where polls indicate Mondale has a chance for victory. 
Healy predicted Indiana will be the first of 50 states to re-elect Reagan with Minnesota as a toss-up. 
Ebsen, who played millionaire hillbilly Jed Clampett on the long­running program, has recorded a radio spot for Kulp's opponent, Re­publican Rep. Bud Shuster. It was broadcast for the first time this week. 
"He's not the kindly oldJed Clam­pett you saw on the show," Kulp, a Democrat, said yesterday. "I've worked so hard on this campaign. It's none of his business and he should have stayed out of it." 
Ebsen says in the commercial that Kulp, who played zany secretary Jane Hathaway, is "too liberal." 

FOOD MUSIC DANCING Saturday, Nov. 3 10 p.m.-2 a.m. 
SeniorBar No J.D.'s Required 
. . ~~~ 

'· 
-. 
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 5 
Soldiers ordered to shoot rioters on sight as Indian violence spreads 
Associated Press over the residence grounds, and The U.S. State Department and the some frenzied mourners chanted British Foreign Ministry have 
NEW DELHI, India-Soldiers were "blood for blood," and "Indira advised citizens to postpone travel ordered to shoot rioters on sight in Gandhi is immortal." plans to India. six major Indian cities yesterday to Shoot-to-kill orders were also After an hour-long meeting with stop lynchings, beatings and arson issued in five northern cities: Indore Gandhi, nation_al opposition leaders that have killed a reported 157 in Madhya Pradesh state, Patna in issued a joint appeal for "people of people in northern India since the Bihar state and Rae Bareilli, Kanpur all persuasions, particularly the ac­assassination of Prime Minister In­and Debra Dun in Uttar Pradesh tive political workers and public ser­dira Gandhi. state. Curfews were imposed in 30 vants, to exert themselves to the 
Hindus were reported to have cities. utmost and restore sanity and har­hanged Sikhs, beaten them to death, Hospital sources in New Delhi mony." and burned their shops, cars ·and said 60 people were killed in the A million or more people are ex­homes in revenge for the prime min­capital and 600 were injured. United pected to make the procession ister's death Wednesday at the hands News of India reported at least 55 before Mrs. Gandhi's cremation Sat­of two ofher Sikh bodyguards. others died elsewhere in India, in­urday afternoon along the banks of 
Sikhs number 13 million in the cluding 20 in central Madhya the jamuna river. predominantly Hindu nation of 730 Pradesh state, where 12 Sikhs were Authorities said two of Mrs. million people, whom the 66-year­lynched by a mob at the Morena Gandhi's Sikh guards opened fire on old prime minister ruled for 1 5 of train station. her with a pistol and machine-gun at the last 18 years. Four Sikh passengers were pulled her home Wednesday morning. The 
For the first time since India's in­out ofa train just outside New Delhi news agency UNI said she was shot dependence from Britain in 1947 and beaten to death, the agency said, 22 times. the army was called into the capital and deaths were reported in West One of the guards, constable Sat­to help police maintain law and or­Bengal, Bihar and Haryana states. want Singh, was killed by other se­der. When roaming Hindu gangs A nine-mile procession of people curity men, and the second, defied a round-the-clock curfew wearing black badges and carrying sub-inspector Beant Singh, was declaration, authorities ordered the pictures ofMrs. Gandhi drew 10,000 wounded, authorities have said. A troops to shoot rioters on sight. mourners in Calcutta, India's most third guard who did not fire was ar­
Black smoke from burning build­populous city. UNI reported two rested. He has not been identified. ings, shops and cars billowed over people in Tamil Nadu immolated the city of6 million. themselves in grief. Police in Punjab state arrested 
Rajiv Gandhi, 40, who was selec­The only official government fig­relatives and friends of the two ted by leaders ofthe ruling Congress ure on casualties came from Home accused guards yesterday UNI re­Party to succeed his mother, met Secretary M.M.K. Wali, who told ported. with opposition leaders last night reporters early yesterday there were The assassination was claimed by 
APPhoto
and issued an appeal for peace nine confirmed deaths, two in New anonymous Sikh extremists as saying: "this madness must stop." Delhi and seven in Madhya Pradesh. revenge for the Indian army attack in 
Rajiv Gandhi takes over 
More than half a million people Six of the victims were stabbed to June on the Golden Temple in Am­stood in a two-mile-long line to view death in the rioting, and three were ritsar to flush out Sikh separatists. Rajiv Gandhi, in this recent photo, campaigns in Amethi, in Ut­the flag-draped body of the slain shot to death by police, Wali said. In Punjab, the only state where tar Pradesh, India. Gandhi was sworn in as the new bead of the leader at her childhood home, the Five cars were burning in the street Sikhs are the majority, no major vio­got•ernment on Wednesday, following the assassination of bis Teen Murti House. Police used tear across from the government's press lence was reponed yesterday. The mother, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Violence between Hindus gas and bamboo staves to keep information office during Wali's area has been under press cen­andSikhs cominues to grip tbe country. Story at left. enraged crowds from running wild news conference. sorhsip since June. 
Soviet press suggests U.S. involvement in Gandhi's death 

Assocated Press 
MOSCOW -The Soviet press yes­terday indirectly linked the United States to the assassination of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, saying the slaying was inspired by those who "preach gangsterism in rela­tions between states." 
Official comment on the slaying Wednesday in New Delhi stopped short of directly stating that the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency had en­gineered the killing. 
But stories on the state-controlled radio, in newspapers and by the offi­cial news agency Tass reported Mrs. Gandhi's assassination in connec­tion with charges that the United States conducts a policy of "state­sponsored terrorism." 
The reports blamed the killing on "India's opponents abroad," and accused the CIA of supporting Sikh separatists in an alleged effort to overthrow the New Delhi govern­ment. Mrs. Gandhi was shot to death by Sikh members of her own secur­ity detail. 
In Washington, the State Depart­ment said it was formally protesting what it called Soviet attempts to link 
the United States to the assassina­tion. 
"We strongly resent the Soviet al­legations that the United States, and specifically the CIA, were involved in, or inspired, this act of political terrorism," said spokesman Alan Romberg. 
"We reject in the strongest possi­ble terms the outrageous Soviet aile­gations. They are absurd and irresponsible," he said. 
The most strongly worded sug­gestions linking the CIA to the slaying came from the state-run Radio Moscow in English-language broadcasts. 
The "gangsterism" phrasing is fre­quently used in attacks on the United States. 
A BI.CX)MING 
-PENGUIN 
Opll' of Bloom County is pleased to announce the arrival of 8 great prod­ucts. T -shirts and jeneys that bloom in full color with Opus himself and a host of other popular characters (as featured on the best-seller. loose Opus the lovable. now becomes Opus the hugable in 7" and 14" plush dolls by R. Donkin Loose Tails, once a best-seller. has made room at the top of the charts for 'Toons for Our T1mes. the lotest collection of Bloom County favorites featuring Bill the Cat and the whole Meadow gang Begin yoor Bloom County collection today by completing the simple coupon below. 
Please Indicate size and quantity: 
S M L XL Price Total Bloom County T_-Shirt rn rn rn rn 8.95 --­Bloom County Jersey rn rn rn rn 10.95 ---­Penguin lust T-Shirt rn rn rn rn 8.95 --­Penguin Lust Jersey rn rn rn rn 10,95 ---­Bloom County Book rn rn rn rn 5.95-­
NEW ITEMS Indicate number of items: Toones for the Times (Book) 0 6.95 ---~-­Small Opus Don 10.00 ----·
0 c:. 
Lorge Opus Doll 0 18.00 ----· Totill ____ Plus $1.50 per item for postage & handl1ng Grand Total _
Mail to: OPUS/ 'l'he Observer Na~ ~---------­5-4-46 Highway 290 West Address Suite 30 I CltyiSuteiZ•p ________________ _ Austin, Texas 787 35 
Allow 4-6 weeks lor delivery. 
FBI cracks Honduran assassination plot 
Associated Press plot last July from a U.S. citizen and He said a Honduran general, jose inserted an undercover FBI agent Bueso-Rosa, 47, who is the military 
WASHINGTON-The FBI arrested into the scheme as one of the trig­attache posted to the Honduran em­eight people yesterday in what it germen. bassy in Santiago, Chile, was among called an alleged plot by exile Webster said the FBI had seized those named in a criminal complaint businessmen to assassinate Hon­760 pounds of cocaine Sunday at a filed in U.S. district court in Miami. duran President Roberto Suazo and remote airstrip in south Florida. The take over that Central American gov­drugs, which would have been Also charged in the complaint was ernment. worth S10.3 million wholesale, Faiz Sikaffy, 49, a Honduran citizen 
FBI director William Webster said were to be used to finance the over­and businessman who lost more than 57 million in Honduras when the government nationalized his ce­ment business. Sikaffy now operates a seafood business in Florida and resides in Miami. 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Presents 
PROF. MORTON S. FUCHS 
Chairman of the Biology and Microbiology Dept s. 
DISTINGUISHED 
LECTURE 
SERIES 
. •om•tl••• 
the bureau learned of the alleged throw, Webster said. 
LOGAN CENTER ND/SMC COUNCIL FOR THE RETARDED 
RegularREC 
Saturday, 11/3 9-11:30 Call Kathy Kelly at 283-3604 for information New Volunteers Welcome 
"The kids need you •••" 





l' -­
~:. 
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 6 
[
'I 

Thousands of Poles mourn slain pro-Solidarity priest 


WARSAW, Poland -Thousands of Poles mourned a slain pro-Solidarity priest at his Warsaw church yester­day, and a group of Solidarity ac­tivists from Gdansk called a one-hour strike on Saturday to protest his kidnap and murder. 
After first announcing that the priest, Jerzy Popieluszko, would be buried on Saturday in a Warsaw cemetery, church officials said he would be laid to rest instead at St. Stanislaw Kostka Church, where he had served. 
Popieluszko's coffin was to be brought to the church today to rest on the altar until the funeral, church officials said. 
The body of Popieluszko, 37, was pulled from a reservoir .in northern Poland Tuesday, 11 days after he was abducted Oct. 19. Three secret
j· 
police officers have been charged
I 
with the abduction and may face
J I murder charges. ; The strike call by the Gdansk 
I 
Major U.S. retailers posted slug­gish October sales gains yesterday as unseasonably warm weather dis­couraged winter-clothes purchases and demand for big-ticket goodo;; weakened. 
Builders stepped up their spend­ing last month, however. New con­struction spending, propelled by 
. gains in office buildings, apartments
( 
and shopping centers, rose 1.1 per­cent for its best increase in four
f 
months, the Commerce Department said. 
r· 
( And initial jobless claims totaled 
,. 426,000 in the week ending Oct. 20, up 34,000 from the previous week 
McCarthy 
C(mtinued from page 1 
"In former years, people would 
listen to entire speeches of candi­
dates on radio. Now we only hear 
what Tom Brokaw says on the 
nightly news. 
"In this sense, the candidate has 
become obscurred," she said. 
McCarthy said it is difficult for a 
candidate to control his own image 
because of the overabundance of 
public relation and advertising firms 
involved in political campaigns. The 
idea of what sells often differs from 
what the candidate sees as his 
strengths, she said. 
Addressing the recent name call­
ing in such campaigns as the Illinois 
Senate race between Paul Simon and· 
Charles Percy, McCarthy said, 
"Unfortunately, destructive ads pay 
off because the electorate 
responds." 
In searching for a solution to the 
image making of a candidate, she 
said that it is hard to control the group was addressed to the workers has urged calm and moderation in of the northern port city, but ap­the wake ofPopieluszko's death. parently was aimed at workers The strike call was the first by a nationwide. leading union activist since Nov. 10, 
The statement was signed by a 1982, when the Solidarity under­former leading figure in the now­ground leadership unsuccessfully outlawed union, Andrzej Gwiazda. It appealed for a nationwide general marked a split between Gwiazda and strike to protest the outlawing ofthe Solidarity founder Lech Walesa, who free trade union. 

The St. Stanislaw Kostka Church fence was ringed by thousands of burning candles and covered with flowers yesterday, All Saints' Day, a holiday in this predominantly Roman Catholic country. 
The primate, Cardinal Jozef Glemp, visited Popieluszko's gravesite with church officials fol­lowing a midday Mass at which he called Popieluszko an apostle of peace. 
"We should remember that Christ's call that 'blessed with a clean heart is one who makes peace and who suffers for justice' fits so well to the late Father Jerzy Popieluszko, who is dear to our 
Lech Walesa hearts," the primate said. 
f 
f Retailers post slight sales gains; 
( 
I 
I r new construction spending rises 
and the largest number of applica-J The increase was the strongest lions since 435,000 such claims since a 2.5 percent gain in May; were made in the week ending Nov. spending had dropped in June and 19, 1983, the Labor Department re-July before edging up 0.3 percent ported. again in August. 
Sears, Roebuck & Co., the nation's Rising interest rates were blamed biggest retailer, said its October for the mid-year building slowdown, sales edged up 2.1 percent from a but those rates have been declining 
year earlier. K Mart Corp., the No. 2 recently. In another report yester­chain, said sales jumped 17.8 per-day, the government said the rate on cent, but it has opened more stores conventional fixed mortgages fell to since last year. Third-ranked J.C. 14.72 percent in October from 14.9 Penney Co. posted an 8.6 percent percent in September. Theyhad hit a gain. peak of 15.23 percent inJuly. 
Construction spending climbed The construction report said to a seasonally adjusted annual rate spending on residential buildings of $315.3 billion in September, 12 fell 0.9 percent in September for its percent above the level a year ago, fourth straight monthly decline. But the Commerce Department said. non-residential construction rose 
5.5 percent, and spending on shop­
media because it sees the candidate 
as a commodity. 
"Journalists could learn to be more responsible. Young journalists tend to expose anything about can­didates with the assumption that they are better imforming their readers," she said. 
McCarthy said that volunteerism used to be an important force in the political world. Now, computers provide lists for mass direct mailings which fuel large scale campaigns, she said, making it increasingly diffi­cult for new candidates to defeat an incumbent. 
ping centers and other commercial buildings jumped 9.4 percent. 
Robert Ortner, chiefeconomist at the Commerce Department, said declines in mortgage rates should help to reverse the slide in single­family construction. 
The Labor Department's weekly jobless claims report also showed that in the week ending Oct. 13, an estimated 2,469,000 people were receiving regular state-paid benefits, usually lasting 26 weeks, an increase of 165,000 over the preceding week. It was the highest level ofreg­ular claims paid in a single week since April 2. 

Exotic Florida Plants 
While they last! 
KENSINGTON FAITH CENTER 5911 York Road, So. Bend 9a.m. · 7p.m. 291-9393 

APPhoto
Hunger in Ethiopia 
A small child clings to the head ofan elderly Ethiopian man as they flee to Northern Ethiopia to escape staroation following the severe drought. Thousands havefled, and millions are starving in the African country because of crop failures. Even with the growing relief effort, United Nations officials say the suffering likely will continue.
I J
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
.__________________________________________________. 

WSND-Notre Dame Public Radio 
presents 
Alex de Grassi Jazz Guitarist 
,:riday, November 2 8pm Washington Hall Tickets Available at SAB Record Store $850 re . admissi n $6°0 with valid student ID 
* 30 Varieties Wholesale Prices $6-$35 

AVERAGE $5-$8/HR. WITH OWN CAR The best part-timeS in town. Flexible hours. Stop in this week and talk to Mark, Dave or Dennis. 4:30p.m. -1:00 a.m. 1635 South Bend Ave. \South Bend. IN Phone: 2n-2151 Also wanted: Phone persons Come talk with usI .. delivery persons  !,  



GROUCHO
TYPING 
Coming to ...
starring 
Gabe Kaplan
Term Papers 
Morris Civic Resumes 
Auditorium
• 
Letters 
Thursday. November 8
Manuscripts 7:30p.m.
Word Processing 
Tickets available at SAB Record Store 
CaD Chris at: 
$7.50
234-8997 


Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 7
Accent 
High anxiety attacks many 
took faith for him to go back to school for his years ofpre-med and
Rev. Robert Griffin 
medical studies. He kept thinking of 
the children he might stop fromfeatures columnist dying ifhe were earning money to send them now. For the sake of a 
Letters to a lonely God more effective apostolate, he decided to let God take care of them. Next year, he'll be a licensed "'T'"1be largest ofall brotherhoods is I hope I will never counsel doctor, working in Appalachia. By 
.1. the community ofsuffering. The anyone to be temperate in the zeal becoming a professional, he has body count is endless. The casualty that makes them outraged against multiplied the opportunities open list includes the war dead, the the helpless, or encourage them to to him as a servant ofthe poor. hunger victims, the genocides and think only ofthemselves. I get sick 
A few years earlier, another stu­the abortions. We keep seeing to my stomach remembering can-
dent returned from a drought­
pictures that remind us of the cer victims judged incurable in a 
ridden country in Africa, where the
agony. You could fill a gallery the country that spends billions on 
population was dying. His anxiety
size ofthe Pentagon with the missiles, and takes up nickel and made him see how helpless he wasphotographic evidence of man's dime collections in the movie to stop the starvation. In despair, heinhumanity to man, and still left houses for medical research. I hate took his own life.
uncatalogued would be the list of what happens to old people, left patients tortured by disease. alone with their fears and poverty 
In the passiontide ofthe world,Some people who look at suffer-in cheap, chilly rooms where the none ofus is free to be Pontius ing day after day give up faith in roaches are more healthy than the Pilate, washing our hands ofrespon­God, arguing that the energies tenant. People should never anes­sibility. Somewhere along the waymanifested in creation are indif-thetize their conscience against the ofsorrow, we can give a hand toferent, heartless, or malignant. If forms ofwretchedness that cry out victims struggling with the crosses you reject religious beliefs, how to heaven for vengeance. 
laid on them. Faith is the properwill that help you? life would drive Yet I have to tell people driven to mood for figures at the scene ofa you crazy ifyou were positive that the verge ofwildness: "Let go ofit. 
redemption. Peace comes, replac­old people who grieve will never be For the sake ofa night's sleep, let ing anxiety, and angels arrive to comforted, or ifyou gave up hope God carry the weight ofthe world help us as minister, when we start 
that Christ will wipe away tears for a while. Stop trying to lift the from the faces ofchildren born in bodies down from the cross. This is 
trusting that God still knows how to misery. Suffering shouldn't be a Christ's passion too. Get your own write straight with crooked lines. 
spiritual problem for the atheist house in order before you self-I'm not counselling indifference to 
convinced that life is short, brutal destruct. Remember that God has the tragedy ofl5,000,000 abortions. 
and nasty in a world that's a blood-the whole world in His Hands." 
We should be angry at the abor­
red jungle. A few years ago, a Notre Dame tions, and grieved at any parent so Confusion comes when you student spent a year outside the careless with life. We should be 
realize that a loving God allows evil dining halls collecting money for 
comfoned to think that God has a 
to touch you. Communists belittle the hunger coalition. Then he made 
place for children that the world 
religion for promising pie in the sky a trip to Bangladesh to see the im­
doesn't want. 
bye-and-bye. It would be a wimpish poverished victims he was helping. Christian who would settle for so He came home, wondering: "What These little ones have souls that little. Judaism taught the Church . can I do to help more?" Finally, he see the heavenly Father's face. We several great lessons: there is a God, decided the best he could make of should be anxious for ourselves; for and He loves the poor, the lame, the his life was to become a doctor. It them, we need not be anxious. blind, and the sick. You can't love God while ignoring the unfortun­ate. Eternity isn't soon enough to begin cherishing the widow and the orphan. Israel's prophets spoke 

Like to write? 
harshly to the generations which withheld the mercy and compas­sion God has mandated. 
I just got a letter from a woman full ofanguish over the deaths by 
There will be a meeting
abortion. She wrote ofattending a debate between two priests, one 
for anyone interested in 
pro-life, and the other pro-choice. The pro-life priest displayed a jar containing a fetus with toes, fingers, 
Features 
and other delicate features fully formed. Anything his opponent said 
writing for The Observer 
lost all persuasiveness compared to the unmistakable little shape inter­rupted on its journey toward birth. What worries me most about the 
Wednesday. Nov. 7 at 7 p.m.
letter was the high anxiety of the woman who sent it. Students pro­
in the LaFortune Little Theatre 
testing the injustices of the Vietnam War used to show the same kind of Writing topics include record, movie and book reviews, anxiety. Other students coming general human interest articles. and humor columns. back from countries devastated by 
For more information contact Mary Healy
hunger were as frightening as this 
at the Observer office, 239-5313.
woman, desperate at her helpless­ness in stopping abortions. 
Father Gerald J.Merkel EUsworld RHE 


•MOVIES 
To top otfthis week ofghouls, ghosts and horror flicks, theStudent 
Activities Board will present the film "The Exorcist." Ellen Burstyn and Max Von Sydow star in this story of a young girl (Unda Blair) 
possessed by the devil and the priest (Jason Miller) who tries to help her. Showings will be at 7, 9:15, and 11:30 in the Engineering 
Auditorium and admission will be S1. The Friday Night Film Series will present "The Demon Pond," a 
apanese film with English subtitles. Set in 1933, the film depicts a spectacular fable about a pond inhabited by a demon spirit. The film 
begins at 7:30 in the Annenburg Auditorium and admission will be $2.50. 
•MUSIC There's plenty of musical entertainment in store this weekend. 
First of all, tonight guitarist Alex de Grassi will be presented in solo concert in Washington Hall at 8. Tickets for the performance, 
which is being sponsored by WSND-FM Radio, are S8.50 for adults and S6 for students with an I.D. 
Tomorrow night, the Notre Dame Chorale will present its annual Fall Concert in Washington Hall at 8: I 5. The Chorale just returned 
from its fall tour to cities in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and 
New York. Selections for tomorrow's concert were performed on 
tour and include works of Hugo Distler, Benjamin Britten and 
ohannes Brahms among others. Admission to the concert is free. 
On Sunday, the Blair String Quartet, acclaimed from coast to coast 
for their concerts, radio broadcasts, and recordings, will appear in 
concen at 4 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Quartets by Haydn 
and Bartok will be performed as well as the Brahms Sextet No. I 
will feature Notre Dame faculty members, Laura Klugherz and 
Karen Buranskas. Admission will be S2 for the general public and 
for students with I.D. 
"Renaissance Drawings from The Ambrosiana" will be on display 
at the Snite until December 30. This exhibition, organized by the 
Medieval Institute, includes 80 drawings selected from the 
Bibliotica Ambrosiana's collection in Milan, Italy. 
This weekend will be your last chance to view the exhibit "John l~llrt~c~r Sargent: Drawings from the Corcoran Gallery of An" at the 
Snite. Probably the most famous American painter at the time ofhis 
death in I925, john Singer Sargent was also a prolific draftsman. The 
exhibition of 58 dra~ngs and two watercolors was selected from 
the Corcoran's Sargent collection of I05 works on paper. The dis­
play will remain on view until Nov. 4. 
Hours at the Snite are I 0 to 4 Tuesday through Friday; 1 to 4 on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8. 
•TIIEATRE 
The Student Players will present the musical thriller "Sweeney Todd-the Demon Barber ofFleetStreet" this weekendin O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Performances will be tonight, tomorrow, and Sunday at 8 p.m. 
•DANCE 
There will be "A Taste ofthe World" party at the Senior Bar tomor­row night including food, music, and dancing from around the world. Admission is SI and no I.D. is required. 
•MASS 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father David Schlaver at 5: I5 (Saturday night vigil). Father George Wisldrchen at 9 a.m. Father Richard McBrien at 10:30. Father David Tyson at 12: 15. 

,. ·" ": ~ 1 
. . r .
; : ..
.. ·;·\~,.--=~·~ 
}.. ...' 
. . 

Alex de Grassi, guitarist with Windham Hill Records, will be performing at Washington Hall tonight at 8. 
,_ 
Friday, November 2, 1984-page 8
Accent
~jI 
Michiana Regional Airport flying high 

Cat Francis 
features columnist 
The world according to Cat 
E
very year, hundreds of Notre Dame students pass through one ofSouth Bend's largest and fastest growing establishments. 
Is it a mall? A bank? A car factory? A McDonald's? area encourages businesses to 

!-No, no, no and no. Itis the Mic­select South Bend as a site for estab­hiana Regional Airport. In the past lishing new operations or to expand few years the airport has experi­existing operations and concerns. 
'/1 enced enormous growth. This Much of the airport's funds have increase in size and activity has 
·•· i gone into making the airport con­taken the forms of terminal and 
!. venient and attractive for travellers. runway construction, commercial 
The airport hopes to lure away 
)I 
carrier servi_ce, both private and 
some ofthe travellers from the company plane use, air cargo ser­Previously, the street had bisected Chicago area. Ii offers service to vice, and the South Shore Railway. the airport land, stifling any growth. both Northern Indiana and South­In the future, it may even be 1978. This change created yet operations presently sit on either The payment for the relocation of ern Michigan.declared a Foreign Trade Zone. another. No longer did planes tly side ofthe airport terminal. Plans air cargo service and fixed base Planes leave from the airport to 

In 1971, the airport began a point-to-point, in the same manner for these include moving them operations was tricky for the air­most major cities in the Midwest sorely-needed expansion and buses take routes, but switched to away from the terminal area, in port, since it is limited by Federal and East. There are a toral of41 modernization drive. A total of 16.5 what is called the "hub and spoke order to facilitate expansion ofboth Aviation Authority rules, which flights leaving daily, with a capacity million dollars was alloted to a system." With this system, small the terminal and the operations. prohibit using federal funds on any of 2,900 passengers. number ofvaried projects. planes tly travellers to a centrally The two service both private and portion ofthe airport not used by The total ofpassenger loadings
The airport is now "multi­located "hub." From there, the business planes. They provide the general public. Finally, the has fallen from its peak in 1978, modal," that is to say, serving more traveller takes a plane to another aircraft maintenance, tlight instruc­funds were raised by industrial when the airport estimates it had a than just planes. At the airport, one major city. Ifthey are travelling to tion, charter service and fueling revenue bonds and economic de­total of 50,500. The lowest point for 
another small town, at the major services for all planes using the velopment funds. the airport carne in 1982, because 
city they can take a small plane airport. Growth ofthe airport is an en­of the recession, when it fell to"Growth ofthe airport again, or else find another means of In 1982, the city ofSouth Bend couragement to similar growth in 262,000. However, the numbers are is an encouragement transportation. vacated a large section ofLathrop the South Bend area. It provides a on the upsurge, and the airport is 
The air cargo service is booming Street, despite some protest, allow­number ofjobs and valuable well on its way to fulfillment ofthe
to similar growth in the 
at Michiana Regional. It presently ing room for expansion ofair cargo services. Additionally, the presence 4 50,000 it predicted for itself this South Bend area. It holds two Boeing 727-200 and fixed base services to the north. ofa large and quality airport in the vear. airplanes. These larger planes are
provides a number of 
used by United Parcel Service andjobs and valuable ser-Federal Express to maintain their 
. ,, 
overnight delivery services. The
vzces. 
planes have a regular schedule: they
!,{ 
depart from South Bend at 9 a.m.
v can, besides leaving on a jet plane,
i i and return to the airport on the

take a bus, hire a limo, hail a taxi or following morning at 7 a.m. There,hitch a ride with a friend. 
they are refueled during the twoThe airport is also hoping to add hour rest stop before they leave to this impressive repetoire in the again.
form ofextending the tracks ofthe In order to allow room for theSouth Shore Railway to the airport, expansion of these services, airportfor the convenience of those who authorities wish to relocate thetake the train either to Chicago or planes' holding area into a new one ofthe stops in between South cargo area. This area would beBend and Chicago. To accomplish 
I located on the north side of the
/ this, they have applied for a Federal east/west runway. The planes bringgrant which would amount to al­around 525,000 a year in landing most S5 million. 
I fees to the airport, not taking into
The airport has extended its account their fuel purchases and
north/south runway to 4,250 feet
~ what they provide the South Bend 
and is now hoping to relocate a area in terms of jobs and services. 
-~ 1 00-foot electric line to the north. 
There are two fixed base opera­This move would allow the runway
/ tions at the airport, Post & King
I to be extended an additional 1,950 Aviation and SBN Inc. These two
I feet, making it 6,200 feet long. This extension would make the 
j. 
north/south runway to joiri the 
J east/west runway in being suitable I for larger planes. At the presentI -moment, there are occasionally
I 
times when the larger planes can­
i, 
not land or are delayed in landing 
~ 
due to a strong wind from either . ~ the north or south. Pilots prefer to land into the wind, since a wind I from any other direction must be .{ compensated for when landing the
!
r plane. The airport has applied for an I estimated S2 million in federal 
I 
' funds to allow them to carry out several other projects. These proj­ects include a relocation of the air cargo area, and the two fixed base operations and an expansion of the terminal itself. 
Why does the airport feel these expansions are necessary? In recent years, there has been a surge in the number ofairlines serving the air­port. There is a need for additional ticket counter space, waiting areas and baggage areas. To increase space to the point where these additions are possible, it will be necessary to remove a large section of the old terminal. 
The increase in the number of airlines serving South Bend has come about since deregulation in 



a sports supplement
page9 November 2, 1984 
Rebounding Irish square off against Middies 

ND needs win to go above .500 mark, but first must stop revamped Navy offense 
By LARRY BURKE the past," says Irish head coach Gerry Faust. "So much of Sports Writer what they had planned to do revolved around McCallum. But with him out and with Byrne coming on the way he 
With a 1-3 record at Notre Dame Stadium this season, has, there's a whole new look to their offense. Navy 
the Irish are hoping to register a victory Saturday against normally has been a ball-control, grind-it-out style of 
the Midshipmen ofNavy in Notre Dame's home-away­team, but Byrne's ability to throw the football has really 
from-home, Giants Stadium. opened things up." 
Navy has compiled a 3-3-1 ledger in 1984 under Byrne's primary receivers have been senior tight end 
third-year head coach Gary Tranquill and, like the 4-4 Mark Stevens ( 25 catches for 308 yards), senior split end 
Irish, the Middies will be trying to get back over the .500 Chris Weiler ( 24 receptions for 449 yards and three 
mark when the two teams take to the Meadowlands field. touchdowns), and senior flanker Ken Heine ( 24 catches 
Coming off an impressive win over the I.SU Tigers, the for 296 yards and four TO's). Irish will have to be careful to avoid a letdown this week, Senior tailback Rich Clouse has taken over for McCal­as they stand to gain little from a victory, but figure to lose lum in the backfield, rushing 91 times for 34 3 yards and plenty from a defeat. one touchdown. The other two big contributors to the 
Navy's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: Navy ground game have been sophomore tailback Mike 
Navy's offensive game plan looked pretty simple Smith (39 carries for 225 yards and one TD) and heading into this season. With Reisman Trophy candidate sophomore fullbackJohn Berner ( 38 rushes for 148 Napoleon McCallum at tailback, the Midshipmen figured yards). to have an explosive running attack, spiced up with a few The Irish defense turned in a solid all-around perfor­timely passes. But when McCallum broke an ankle in mance against I.SU last week, fueled by a strong pass rush Navy's second game, things changed dramatically. Now that kept the Tigers' passing game under wraps. Notre the Midshipmen have been using the pass more and more Dame has benefitted both physically and emotionally -and with increasing effectiveness. from the return oflinebacker Mike Larkin, who had a key 
Navy is currently on a school record-setting pace, interception last week. Larkin's return has helped ease the averaging 222 yards passing per game with sophomore loss ofTony Furjanic, but the Irish will have other injury quarterback Bill Byrne at the helm. Don't look for Byrne problems on defense this week. Cornerback Troy Wilson in the Navy press guide, however, because there's no will miss the game with a bruised thigh, and linebacker profile ofhim there. The 6-3, 200-pound Pacifica, Calif., Mike Kovaleski is doubtful with a bruised wrist. Mike native was ranked sixth on the depth chart earlier this fall, Haywood will start in Wilson's spot, and Ron Weissen­but came on strong and won the starting job. He has hofer will spell Kovaleski. connected on 98 of 194 passes (51 percent) this season Even with the injury problems, however, Notre Dame's for I ,340 yards and a school-record 11 touchdowns. defense should be able to contain Navy's offense, 
Byrne, whose brother Tom is a freshman quarterback provided the Ir:ish continue their agressive style ofplay. for Notre Dame and a regular member of the traveling Notre Dame's offense vs. Navy's defense: squad, set a single-game school record with 340 yards The Midshipmen may have caught Notre Dame at the passing in Navy's 28-28 tie with Pittsburgh last Saturday. wrong time, because it appears that things are finally He completed 22 passes in the game, putting two beginning to fall together for the Irish offense. It is the touchdowns and a two-point conversion on the board passing game that has carried Notre Dame for most ofthe within a 13-second period in the final I:07 to forge the 
tie. see MIDDIES, page 10
"This a different kind of Navy team than we've seen in 
Notre Dame's 'home-away-from home' has been Meadowlands: good to Irish, who have outscored foes, 126-10, there 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
There is no place like home, except ifyou happen to be 
the Notre Dame football team. Then, you could say there is 
no place like Giants Stadium in the Meadowlands complex 
in East Rutherford, NewJersey. 
Notre Dame's home-away-from-home serves as the "home" game for many of the Irish subway alumni and Eastern fans. Ofthe over 70,000 spectators expected to come close to filling Giants Stadium on Saturday, many promise to be supporting the Irish. 
Notre Dame has been quite successful playing at the New Jersey complex, with a better won-loss percentage for games played there than even on the familiar turfof Notre Dame Stadium. On the four occasions the Irish have played at the Meadowlands, the opponents have fallen to defeat every time. Maybe the competition from the two service academies, namely Navy and Army, has not been keen, but the record speaks for itself. 
"Notre Dame has played the best of its games there," says Irish head coach Gerry Faust. "But I don't think you can judge other teams by that (the fact that the Irish are unbeaten at Giants Stadium). This Navy team is a good team -they can put points on the board. They will be looking to score, and they are potent offensively." 
Potent offenses are one thing that Notre Dame has not encountered at the Meadowlands. In the four meetings, Army and Navy have managed only ten points, while the Irish have tallied 126. "We've had good success playing in Giants Stadium before," Faust says, "partly because there are bound to be a good number of Notre Dame fans there. But, other than that, it's just like playing at any other place." 
That statement by the Notre Dame coach may be refuted, however. Giants Stadium has artificial turf, a surface on which the Irish have been effective -especially Faust-
coached teams. In the ten games Notre Dame has played on 
carpet since the I98I season, it has posted a 7-2-1 record. 
Success at the Meadowlands has also been effective in 
helping past Notre Dame teams get back on track after 
struggling through the early part of a season. In I977, the 
Irish defense rose to form to hold the Cadets from Army 
scoreless, as Notre Dame outscored its opponent by more 
than ten points for the first time in the season, 24-0. 
Following that game, ·the team established itselfas a 
contender for the national championship. 
After suffering two straight dismal performances against Arizona and Oregon in I982, the Notre Dame offense needed a shot in the arm, and got it in the form of an Irish victory over the Middies at the Meadowlands. Although Navy had more success than usual against Notre Dame, the Midshipmen still scored only ten points. But those ten points in the 27-10 Notre Dame victory have been the only points put on the board against the Irish at Giants Stadium. 
The points were not rightfully earned, however. Navy scored its touchdown against Notre Dame's second defensive unit. The Midshipmen could not move the ball against the Irish first-team defenders, who picked offsix Tom Tarquinio passes and held the Navy rushing offense to 73 yards. 
"I don't think that the teams go into the games there with the idea of not trying to win," Navy head coach Gary Tranquill states. "I think that Notre Dame has a few better players." 
In the lastest Irish showdown at the Meadowlands, Notre Dame definitely had the talent advantage, destroying Army, 42-0. The contest last season was over just after it started, with Notre Dame exploding for 21 quick first-quarter points before the Cadets had a chance to catch their breath. 
It was the third-straight victory for the Irish, with all of those wins coming on the road. "It's good to regain confidence in ourselves like we have," said a contented Faust after the victory. "Playing in a place like this is almost like being home, and that helped us, too." Momentum after that game was to be short-lived, however, as, two victories later, Notre Dame resumed its recent end-of-season demise with three losses. 
For the Devine-coached Irish of 1980, momentum was not only short-lived, but ended after a 33-0 victory over Navy at the Meadowlands, when Georgia Tech tied the heavily-favored Irish, 3-3. 
Jim Stone ran for 21 1 yards in the Navy game, continuing the success ofNotre Dame running backs in rushing on the artificial turf at Giants Stadium. Jerome Heavens began the tradition by carrying the ball 34 times for 200 yards in 1977. Allen Pinkett has been responsible for some pretty impressive numbers in the last two Notre Dame games at the· Meadowlands. He rushed for I32 yards last season against Army, and had 129 yards in 1982 against Navy as a freshman, while filling in for the injured Phil Carter. 
The possibility ofanother good showing by the Irish in their New Jersey stomping ground was heightened by the I.SU win last week. The team now has a chance to build its momentum as Notre Dame teams have in the past when playing in Giants Stadium, and could have a good head of steam when it begins to prepare for the Penn State game which is two weeks away. 
"I hope our team isn't going to be looking to far ahead," warns Faust. "The men at the service academies don't know what the word 'quit' is. They are playing good football and are on an upswing."· 
The Naval Academy has had good success in playing the good teams close, that is, except for Notre Dame, which has beaten the Midshipmen in 20 consecutive games. Combine this dominance with the Notre Dame success at the Meadowlands, and it would appear that the "home" crowd may see the Irish go back above .500 for the season. 
-
--~----------------------------------------------~--~------------------------------------... 
E NAW
ICISb xtra~===================N=o=v=em=b=e=r=2,=19=8=4=-p=a=g=e=10 

Joe Howard 
Senior shows that big not always best 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
The cliche that "good things come in small packages" has certainly seen its share of use. But, in certain situa­tions, its use is very appropriate. And anyone who knows anything about Notre Dame football would have to agree about the value of Notre Dame's own "Small Wonder," Joe Howard. 
Since his first starting role against Navy in the seventh game of 1981, Howard has been an integral part of the Irish football squad. And, as oflast season, he even turned in the football cleats and donned basketball shoes to put his talents to work for the Irish basketball team. 
But, after seeing Howard perform over the years, it may come as a surprise to hear that he almost wasn't offered a scholarship at Notre Dame. "I was the last freshman recruit to receive a scholarship," says the S-9, 171-pound senior. "Most recruits receive their offer when they visit the school. It was not until the day before the signing date that (former) Coach (Greg) Blache came to my house and told me that Notre Dame had a scholarship for me. I think they looked at my size as a handicap. but I really believe that in sports a lot dt:pends on how much heart and determination a person has, not their size." 
Howard has certainly proven that by being small in stature, one can still stand tall on the platform ofsuccess. But, although he has accomplished many things during his football career, results are not nearly as important to him as simply having had the chance to play. "Success is not winning or losing," states the Clinton, Md., native. "For me, it's being happy with what I've had the opportunity to accomplish and knowing that when I leave, I will have left a part of me here." 
A big part of Howard certainly will be left behind. Few can forget his 96-yard touchdown reception from Blair Kid against Georgia Tech in 1981, the longest pass in Notre Dame history. Then, in 1982, there was the flea flicker in the 31-16 upset of then-No. 1 Pittsburgh. Howard pulled in Kid's 54-yard toss for a touchdown on the play. In 1983, Howard had a 67-yard reception against Air Force which ranked as the longest completion ofthe season. 
But, despite all ofthese memorable accomplishments, one other moment stands out even more in Howard's mind. "When I returned the kickoff 56 yards against USC my freshman year, it meant a lot to me," he says. "It really got me going. Up until then I hadn't played the way I knew I could. I was the smallest guy and was a bit 
continued from page 9 
season, but the long-dormant rushing attack is finally starting to 
get on track. 
The Irish have abandoned the !-formation in favor ofthe 
double-tight end, single-back formation. This new alignment has 
provided tight end Ricky Gray with more playing time, and the 
senior responded by catching four passes for 3 5 yards last week. 
"We're forcing defenses to play us honestly," says Faust, "because we're not having to depend on the strong side of the line when we use a double-tight end set. We simply had not been running the football very effectively, and the changes have paid off." The changes paid off in a big way against LSU as ND rushed for 202 yards against a defense that had allowed only 
90.4 yards per game on the ground in its five previous games. 
Tailback Allen Pinkett had his best game ofthe season last week, picking up 162 yards on a school record-tying 40 carries, and scoring two touchdowns. Pinkett raised his season numbers to 653 yards rushing on 177 carries (3.7-yard average) and 10 TD's. Seniors Chris Smith ( 44 carries for 179 yards, 4.1-yard average) and Mark Brooks ( 26 rushes for 100 yards and a 3.8-yard average with three ID's) continue to split time at the fullback spot. 
Despite their recent success on the ground, the Irish figure to match Navy's passing attack with an aerial show of their own. Quarterback Steve Beuerlein has completed 98 of 158 passes this season (62 percent), a pace that would set a school record for completion percentage. Beuerlein has thrown for six touchdowns so far this season, but has made some costly mistakes -namely 12 interceptions. Nonetheless, he is 17th in the NCAA quarterback rankings, with a 129.7 rating. 
Irish flanker Milt Jackson, who has 22 catches for 275 yards and four touchdowns this season, will most likely miss the game with a bruised collarbone suffered against LSU. Withjackson out, Beuerlein will throw primarily to senior split endJoe Howard, freshman split end Tim Brown ( 18 catches for 202 yards), and senior tight end Mark Bavaro ( 2 5 receptions for 288 yards and one touchdown). Pinkett, who has caught 15 passes for 177 yards and one touchdown, will be another ofBeuerlein's favorite targets. 
The Navy defense has been very generous to opposing offenses this season, giving up 368 yards per game. Leading the Midshipmen on defense will be linebacker Mike Taylor ( 62 tackles), safety Marc Firlie (54 stops and three interceptions), and linebackerJim Dwyer ( 39 tackles). Tackle Eric Rutherford leads the defensive front with nine tackles for lost yardage. 
intimidated by all the veterans. After that run, though, I felt like I fit right in." 
In his first start the following weekend against Navy, Howard made everyone aware ofhis newly-found confidence. In that game three seasons ago, Howard pulled in five receptions for 1 1 5 yards, including one for a 52-yard touchdown. He also scored a touchdown on the ground as he ran the last leg ofa reverse into the end zone. 
In the two following years against Navy, Howard also had some noteworthy successes. He started all games in 1982 except the Navy contest, but he still made his appearance felt as he came off the bench, making three catches for SO yards despite nursing a thigh injury. In last season's game at Notre Dame Stadium, Howard ran four end-around plays. The longest went for 30 yards on the first play of the game. That same afternoon he demon­strated his throwing ability as he connected with Milt jackson for a 29-yard touchdown. 
Heading into this season, Howard ranked fifth on the all-time Notre Dame receiving chart with 72 receptions for 1,451 yards and seven touchdowns. Through the first eight games, he has pulled in eight receptions for 128 yards. Although he has never led the squad in receptions in any ofhis three seasons, his career average per reception stood at 20.5 yards coming into this campaign, best among the current receivers and second-best in Irish history. 
Howard has also served as a kickoff and punt returner. Entering the 1984 season, he averaged 23.3 yards per kickoff return and 6.9 yards per punt return. This year he has returned one kickoff for 17 yards and seven punts for a 9.9-yard average. His 24-yard punt return against South Carolina has been the longest for the team this year. 
Making catches and returning kickoffs and punts makes Howard a very visible figure on the field. But even when he isn't directly involved with a play, he takes great pride in performing his assigned duties. "Making good blocks or being in the right place are important to a team," he says. "When I do what I'm supposed to and we score, it makes me feel good. I like to make sure that I do the little things even though a lot ofpeople don't always notice." 
When Howard showed up on the basketball court a week after the Liberty Bowl, a lot ofpeople certainly noticed. His 14-point debut performance against Holy Cross was hardly a little thing and it quickly made everyone aware ofhis presence. He was one ofjust four Division I athletes playing both football and basketball in '83-'84. 
• • • Middies 
Only once this season have the Midshipmen surrendered less than two touchdowns in a game, and the Irish offense should be able to put plenty ofpoints up on the board, as long as it avoids turnovers. 
The kicking games and specialty teams: 
Saturday's game will feature two of the nation's outstanding placekickers in Navy's Todd Solomon and Notre Dame'sJohn Carney. Solomon, a junior, has been successful on 12 of 15 field-goal attempts, including a long of 52 yards against Princeton which set a Navy record. He has also hit on 13 of 14 extra points. Carney has been just as consistent, converting 1 1 of 12 field-goal attempts, the longest being a 48-yarder against South Carolina. The obvious conclusion is that both ofthese teams are tough to keep off the scoreboard so it is not surprising that neither team has been shut out this season. 
Punter Mike Viracola continues to be a pleasant surprise for the Irish this season. In eight games he has punted 32 times for 41-yard average, and has been effective at pinning the opposi­tion inside its own 20-yard line. Navy's Mark Colby has punted 34 times for a 39-yard average. 
Notre Dame's return teams have been impressive all season. The Irish rank 26th in the nation in kickoff returns with a 21-yard average, while Howard has been the best punt-return man with a 1 0-yard average, including a long of24 yards. Navy's Eric Wallace, a senior defensive back, has been an elusive return man with a kickoff-return average of 3 7 yards, including a 97-yard TD runback. Wallace also averages 11 yards per punt return, with a long of 32 yards. 
The keys to the pme: 
Notre Dame should have few problems winning this game, provided it sets the proper tone in the early going. The Irish have the advantage in personnel, but Navy is a big-play team, so the pressure falls on Notre Dame's defense. The Irish must stop the Navy passing game early and take charge ofthe game defensively. IfNO's defense can shut down the Midshipmen, it will take a lot ofpressure off the Irish offense. 
Offensively, Notre Dame's line needs to get offthe ball quickly in order to establish the running game. Look for the Irish to run early, and then pass when the offense gets estab­lished. Notre Dame has the size on the offensive front, but it needs to show some speed as well. Ifthey do, it can put some big numbers on the scoreboard. 
Joe Howard 

"Coming out ofhigh school I was recruited more for basketball than football," says the point guard who averaged 5.5 points per game in his 23 appearances. "I had to make a decision between the two and it was kind ofhard for me. But in the long run, I felt there were more smaller guys getting into football than into basketball. 
"When I was given the opportunity to play here, I felt like a kid with a new toy. I missed playing basketball so it was a great feeling to get out again, especially to play for the school. I had played at the 'Rock' (Rockne Memorial gymnasium) but it wasn't the same." 
Being a small man on the basketball floor, Howard relies on quickness and on an especially keen ability to set up plays. His 76 assists was second highest on the team. "Everybody got more alert when I was out there," he says. "I hit people all over the place until they got used to me. Unless they were wide-open, they weren't expecting the ball. It was hard at first, but they adjusted well." 
Howard says his teammates' help and acceptance played a big role in his being able to contribute. "Everyone was so helpful. They took me in and helped me to learn the plays and the basics of Coach Phelps' system." Being honored as the team's most inspirational player gives some idea of the respect his teammates have for him. 
As far as this coming season is concerned, ''I'm just trying to get 
'A lot of people think football and basketball are not tor small guys, but I don't believe that. I can do anything I want to, so I try to prove I"t. ' 
-Joe Howard 
through football," Howard says. "I would like to play, but I'm not 
going to say right now." 
As a senior this year, Howard hopes that he has been an exemplary leader for his teammates. "I'm not a real 'rah-rah' type leader," he says. "I lead more by example. I always try to give 1 10 percent, because ifI don't, it will look bad for theyounger guys. I want them to see that it's important to always give your best." 
Despite the lack ofgreat team success over his years here at Notre Dame, Howard is impressed with how head coach Gerry Faust has handled the situation. "Seeing how he is always so p.>sitive is a big help for me," he says. "He never quits on us. He is aJways behind us. He has handled pressure from so many people better than most ofus can from just one person." 
Whether he makes it into the pro ranks or not, Howard hopes, one day, to pass on to others his keys to success. 
"My major is sociology and I'd like to give'back to society what it has given to me," he says. "There are a lot ofkids who think they can make it through life on sports alone and that's the wrong idea. I'd like to help make sure that ifkids want to go to college and play football and other sports, that they realize they must keep their priorities straight." 
A lot of what makes Joe Howard successful isJoe Howard himself. He may be small physically, but his attitude makes his potential limitless. "A lot ofpeople think that football and basketball are not for small guys, but I don't believe that," he says. "I can do anything I want to so and I try to prove it. IfI can't do something, I'll be the first to admit it, but not before I try it first." 
November 2, 1984-page 11
lnsh Extra NAVY 
The Kicking Game 
Carney and Viracola have been pleasant surprises as they handle chores steadily 
ByJOE BRUNETII 
Sports Writer 
No one will contest the fact that the 1984 season has 
been a bumpy road for the Notre Dame football team, but a 
kicking game that entered the season as a big question mark 
has seen only smooth sailing since the season began. 
The kicking duties, for which sophomore kickerJohn Carney and senior punter Mike Viracola were responsible, was an area that was suspect coming into this season, not because the players lacked the ability to do the job, but because Carney and Viracola had been virtually untested in a game situation. Carney handled the kickoffduties as a freshman last year, but he never attempted a field goal or a PAT during the 1983 campaign. Viracola was also essen­tially untested in the punting department, attempting just four punts last season. 
However, any doubts have now been squelched, and head coach Gerry Faust has called the kicking game a "pleasant surprise." 
Carney came to Notre Dame as an "invite-on" who had been recruited for his punting, not his placekicking, because the coaching staffhad told him that the kicking duties.were wrapped up by Mike Johnston. During the preseason practices, thoug..;, the business major earned the kickoffduties because ofhis ability to hit the ball deep into the end zone. What followed was an outstanding perfor­mance as he hit 43 ofhis 59 kickoffs into the end zone, allowing only 25 ofhis kicks to be returned. His excep­tional performance earned him a monogram, but not a scholarship. 
"Some people expected that I would get a scholarship (after last year), but after talking to the coaches I under­stood the situation," comments the Cardinal Newman High (West Palm Beach, Fla.) graduate. "They said I had to do the full job of kicking. You don't give someone a scholar­ship for kickoffs because it isn't really a major part ofthe 

John Carney N D placekicker 
game. The deal was that if 1did well my freshman year I would be eligible for a scholarship, but that I had to win the starting kicking job to get it." 
After winning the starting job this year, Carney was granted his scholarship one week prior to the Purdue game. No one can complain that he isn't worth it after only missing one field goal this year. The sophomore has hit on 11 of 12 field goals with his only miss coming against South Carolina from 39 yards. He is also an impressive 6-of-6 from the 40-to 49-yard range. 
"I'm pretty satisfied with my performance," says the soft-spoken Ohio resident. "Everybody hates to miss. So far we've had very consistent holds and snaps by Mike Viracola and Kevin Kelly and the blocking has been great. Every­thing has just been going smoothly, and I think everyone involved in the kicking game is pretty excited about how things are going." 
The starting job was not handed to Carney after last year's performance. He and Pat Chura were involved in an 
intense kicking duel during last year's spring drills and this 
year's preseason. Carney feels that this intense competition 
has definitely helped his performance. 
"The competition between Pat and me has helped my 
kicking game tremendously," says Carney. "Pat's best 
attribute is his consistency and he showed me that last 
spring. That's one ofthe things that pushed me all through 
the summer to work hard so that I could get to a position 
where I was consistent enough to compete with him. He's a 
helluva kicker. He is one ofthe reasons I am doing 
somewhat sqccessful now. I think that he could start at any 
NCAA college around the country." 
When preparing for a field goal, Carney tries not to let 
outside factors affect him, and he tries to concentrate on 
certain things when preparing for the kick. "You can't let 
outside factors bother you as far as thinking 'this is a 
needed three points' or 'this will win the game' or 'we need 
this to get our momentum going.' None of those factors 
help put the ball through the uprights," says Carney. "The 
thing that helps put the ball through the uprights is keeping 
your head down and really concentrating on what you are 
doing. 
"I try to recite in my head to bend and to keep my head 
down," continues the Dillon resident. "These are some of 
the things I do when I kick fairly decently. I didn't do them 
when I missed the field goal against South Carolina. I just 
went through the motions and didn't really get into the ball 
and bend." 
Besides attributing some ofhis success to Chura, the humble sophomore also gives last year's kicker Mike Johnston a lot ofcredit. "Last year I called him (Johnston) the silent teacher because he doesn't talk a lot when he is kicking or practicing," says Carney. "Just to watch him I learned a lot. His concentration is really intense and he is really smooth. It can be the first or the 50th kick of the day and he has the same amount of concentration amd the same swing of his leg." 
• 
Carney's kicking partner, Viracola, is in his fifth year at 
Notre Dame and his first year in the MBA school. He 
entered Notre Dame both as a punter and a wide receiver, 
but a torn groin muscle in the early stages ofhis freshman 
season kept him out ofaction for both his first and second 
seasons under the Dome. 
"The injury affected me both mentally and physically, and as a sophomore it still bothered me mentally," explains Viracola. "I had two doctors tell me that I would never kick again. That combined with the fact that I was a walk-on made it difficult to come back. So I went to a kicking specialist and he helped get my confidence back up.'' 
Prior to Viracola's junior year he was told he wasn't going to make the travelling squad, but he did, in fact, suit up for every game and served as Blair Kiel's backup for the season. Heading into his senior season, the coaching staff told him that he would eventually take over Kiel's punting duties becasue they wanted Kid to concentrate on only playing quarterback. But, after Steve Beuerlein beat out Kid for the quarterback spot at the M1ami game, the coaches didn't want their captain sitting on the bench. Once again, Viracola was relegated to the backup role. 
After not receiving a scholarship in either his junior or senior year, Viracola was disappointed. "I thought that I should have had the scholarship definitely my senior year, if not my junior year, because I was the back-up, I travelled when I was told I wouldn't travel, and I was there in case anything happened to Kid." 
After the end ofhis senior season last year, the coaching stafftried to entice Viracola to stay an extra year and use his last year ofeligibility by giving him a scholarship. He accepted. "I was planning on going to MBA or Law School anyway," he explains. "When the scholarship v."a5 oJfered to me I decided to go ahead and take it because I could go to MBA school and it would be paid for." 
The scholarship was a major motivating factor in Viracola's decision to complete his last year of eligibility, but the Texas resident was also driven by his desire to prove himself. "A real motivating factor for me to come back was that I had a lot to prove not only to myself, but also to a lot ofpeople," comments Viracola. "IfI hadn't had the chance to come back I would have never known ifI could do it. I would have felt inside that I could have, but I never would have been able to say that I did. 
"I would have rather taken the chance ofhaving a lousy year and saying that I wasn't cut out to do the job than not to do it at all. I have proven what I set out to prove to myselfand to others." 
Coming into this year Viracola had only punted four times for a 34-yard average, and had not really proven himself to the coaching staffand earned its confidence, so he worked extensively on his consistency. "The coaches had never seen me under fire so I had a lot to prove to them so that they would relax. You can't have the coaches wondering what kind ofkick you are going to have every time," he says. "Ifl kick the ball 40 or 45 yards then I have done my job. That's something that I have accomplished excegr for the setback in the Miami game. I didn't like 

Mike Viracola ND punter 
averaging only 35 yards but that's something you have to live with. 
As I see it, that's my fumble or interception for the year, and I just 
had to bounce back and not let it affect me." 
If the coaching sta1I had any doubts about Viracola's punting 
ability, those doubts surely have been removed by now. The 
185-pounder has a 40.9-yard average through the first eight games 
of this season. Ifit weren't for the Miami game, he would be 
averaging almost 46 yards per kick. 
Although Viracola boasts an impressive average he does not 
worry about his average. His main concern is his contribution to 
the team. "I've set out to do what I wanted to do and that's to help 
the team," he explains. "If I start worrying about my average, then I 
get away from my original responsibility to the team, and that's 
when you mess up your concentration and then you get the 10­
and 15-yarders." 
Viracola also has the responsibility ofholding the ball for Carney, which he enjoys because it gives him an added chance to contribute. "The holding is something I enjoy doing and it is something that is key to the team," says Vira~ola. "If the holder doesn't get the ball down, the kicker doesn't do well. Ifl can make John relax so he doesn't have to worry about the ball getting on the tee, then he can just concentrate on his kicking. I'm helping him out which is essentially helping the team out." 
There is no mistaking the fact that the Irish kicking game has helped the team out much more than most people thought. 
Kicking Stats 
John Carney PAT's 
18 attempted 18 converted 
Field Goals 
0-19 0-0 20-29 1-1 30-39 4-5 40-49 6-6 Total 11-12 
Mike Viracola 
·, 
Punting 
32punts 1,309 yards 
40.9 average long punt -51 yards 
November 2. 1984 -page 12
lnsb Extra NAVY 
NOTRE DAME VS. NAVY 
THE GAME 
THE STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Navy Midshipmen 
Last 
---------------·------------------------------------------------·-------------··-·---·-·------------·-...·-·--·----­SITE: Giants Stadium, East Rutherford, N.J. ( 76,891) 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2522 2780 Pinkett 8 1n 653 3.7 10 ~0 Total Plays 549 566 Smith 8 44 179 4.1 0 15
TIME: 12:20 EST; Saturday, Nov. 3, 1984 
Yards per Play 4.6 4.9 Brooks 8 26 100 3.8 3 12
1V-RADIO: ESPN Live National Telecast 
Yards per Game 315.2 347.5 Jefferson 6 30 95 3.2 2 10
Year's
Jim Thacker and Ed Biles 
PENAL TIES-YARDS 45-338 44-366 Flemons 3 11 35 3.2 0 15 FUMBLES-LOST 27-10 21-14 Monahan 7 2 17 8.5 0 10 
WNDU-1V(Ch. 16) 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 152 157 Miller 2 1 13 13.0 0 13 By Rushing 71 88 DeHueck 1 3 11 3.7 0 6
Jeffjeffers and jack Nolan 
ByPassing 72 62 Stams 3 1 5 5.0 0 5
Game 
By Penalty 9 7 Machtolf 1 2 3 1.5 0 2
TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 116-54 109-45 Carter 1 2 1 0.5 0 1
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
Percentage .466 .413 Jackson 8 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4 POSSESSION TIME 232:25 247:33 Grooms 2 13 -21 -1.6 0 7
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network 
Minutes per Game 29:03 30:57 Bauerlein 7 38 -51 -1.3 0 18
October 21'1 Geme 
.....................................................................................................................................................
Tony Roberts, Pat Sheridan, Luther Bradley 
Navy 0 3 9 0 -12 
NOTRE DAME 8 351 1036 3.0 15 20
Notre Dame 14 0 7 7 -28
WNDU-AM 1500 
SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP
Scoring 
............................................................................................................................................................ OPPONENTS 8 397 1525 3.8 15 66 NO -Jackson 5 pass from Beuerlein (Johnston
235 stations nationally 
Pinkett 8 11 o-o 0-0 0 0-0 66
kick) NO-Jackson 29 pass from Howard (Johnston kick) 
Carney 8 0 18-18 0-0 0 11-12 51 PASSING G NO co PCT INT YDS TO 
SERIES: Notre Dame 47, Navy 9, ties 1 
Jackson 8 4 0-0 o-o o 0-0 24 NA-Young 48 FG 
NA-Young 36 FG 
Brooks 8 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 NO-P1nkett 6 run (Johnston kick) 
LAST MEETING: October 29, 1983 
Bauerlein 7 158 98 .620 121322 6Jefferson 6 2 0-0 1-10 0-0 14
Notre Dame 28, Navy 12 
Grooms 2 38 14 .368 1 134 1
NA-McCallum 3 run (pass failed) 
Ward 7 1 o-o 0-0 0 0-0 6 
NO -Pinkett 6 run (Johnston kick) 
Pinkett 8 2 2 1.000 0 30 1Bavaro 8 1 o-o 0-0 0 0-0 6
NA NO 
Andrysiak 0 0 .000 0 0 0
RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Navy unranked 
Bauerlein 7 1 0-0 0-0 0 o-o 6
First downs 15 20 
--------------·-·---------------------------··----------·
TICKETS: Tickets are available 
Chura 1 0 H 0-0 0 1-1 4
Rushing attempts 42 53 
NO 8198114 .576 13 1486 8Team 8 0 0-0 0-2 1 0-0 2
Net Yards Rushing 112 267 
OPP 8 169 100 .592 91255 8
Net Yards Paasing 116 132 
VonWyl 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 0-0 1 Passes camp-attempted 15-30 10-19 
-------·------·------·---------·------------------------­
Had intercepted 1 1 
NO 8 23 20-20 1-3 1 12-13198 RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG
Total Net Yards 228 399
THE SCHEDULE 
OPP 8 23 15-17 4-6 1 6-11181 ----------·--------------------------------··-···-----·-­
Fumbles-lost o-o 2-2 Penalties-yards 4-30 6-45 
Bavaro 8 25 288 11.5 1 24 

NOTRE DAME SEPT. 8lost to Purdue, 23-21 SEPT. 15 def. Mich. St., 24-20 SEPT. 22 def. Colorado, 55·14 SEPT. 29 def. Missouri, 16-14 OCT. 6 lost to Miami, 31-13 OCT. 13 lost to Air Force, 21-7 OCT. 20 lost to S. Caro., 36-32 OCT. 27 def. L.S.U., 30-22 NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands NOV. 17 PENN STATE NOV. 24 at Southern Cal 
DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FA BK 
..................................................................................................................................................... 
Kovaleski  86  2-4  2  0  0  
Banks  50  4-11  0  0  0  
Furjanic  48  0-0  1  0  0  
Ball age  45  0-0  4  1  0  
Johnson  43  0-0  1  0  0  
McCabe  42  1-1  0  1  0  
Gann  36  12-92  1  4  0  
Kleine  36  9-35  0  2  0  
Wilson  36  0-0  2  1  0  
Lawrence  32  o-o  3  2  0  
Francisco  30  0-0  1  0  0  
Griffin  28  2-5  0  0  1  
Figaro  22  1-7  0  0  0  
Golic  22  1-4  0  1  0  

Jackson 8 22 275 12.5 4 31 Brown 8 18 202 11.2 0 19 Pinkett 8 15 177 11.8 1 40 Howard 8 8 128 16.0 0 26 Gray 8 8 95 11.9 0 25 Ward 7 5 178 35.6 1 74 Smith 8 5 50 10.0 0 18 Jefferson 6 3 40 13.3 0 27 Miller 2 1 15 15.0 0 15 Brooks 8 13 13.0 0 13 Williams 4 12 12.0 0 12 Cusack 6 7 7.0 0 7 Bauerlein 7 6 6.0 1 6 
.................................................................................................................................................................. 
NOTRE DAME 8 114 1486 13.0 8 74 OPPONENTS 8 100 1255 12.5 8 50 

NAVY SEPT. 15 def. N. Carolina, 33-30 SEPT. 22lost to Virginia, 21-9 SEPT. 29lost to Arkansas, 3 3-10 OCT. 6 lost to Air Force, 29-22 OCT. 13 def. Lehigh, 31-14 OCT. 20 def. Princeton, 41-3 OCT. 27 tied Pittsburgh, 28-28 NOV. 3 Notre Dame NOV. 1 0 at Syracuse NOV. 1 7 SOUTH CAROLINA DEC. 1 Army at Philadelphia 

lege football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS. 
IOWA over Wisconsin by 13.5 SYRACUSE over Pittsburgh by 4 WEST VIRGINIA over Virginia by 6. 5 Maryland over NORTH CAROLINA by 3 MICHIGAN STATE over Northwestern by 14.5 PENN STATE even with Boston College PURDUE even with Michigan FLORIDA over Auburn by 2.5 Alabama over MISSISSIPPI STATE by 2 Texas over TEXAS TECH by 14 SOUTHERN METHODIST over Texas A&M by 13. S Southern Cal over STANFORD by 4.5 Florida State over ARIZONA STATE by 4.5 Notre Dame over Navy by 7 
Punts-average 8-45.2 5-40.8 
lndlvldu81 LAedera 
RUSHING· Navy: McCallum 24-92; Caraveo 1Q­54; Williamson 8-(-34); Notre Dame: Pinkett 29-121; Smith 11-65; Howard 1-30; Francisco 5-24; Miller 1· 19: Brooks 2-7; Beuerlein 4-1; 
PASSING-Navy: Williamson 14-28-1.112; Can­non 1-2-Q,4; Notre Dame: Beuerlein 9-18-1.103; Howard 1-1-Q.29; 
RECEIVING· Navy: McCallum 6-38; Stevens 4-42; Cebak 2-21; Weiler 2-11; McDonald 1-4; Notre Dame: Howard 3-56; Jackson 3-46; Pinkett 3-27; Brooks 1-3; 
Attendance -59,075 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS(?) 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked at 
f!~~~
the discretion of the sports editor and some well-known figure in the 

QNotre Dame community predict the 
:::: 
.,~
outcome of the week's major col-
Larry Burke  JeffBiumb  Ed Domansky  Theron Roberts  Mike Sullivan  Art Lambert  Meg Mccarthy  
Sports Writer  Asst. Sports Editor  Sports Writer  Sports Writer  Sports Editor  Guest Celebrity  Random Student  
46-47-2  41-52-2  41-52-2  40.53-2  38-55-2  39-54-2  52-41-2  
.495  .442  .442  .432  .411  .421  .558  
(last week ­ 6-8)  (last week ­ 11-3)  
Badgers  Hawkeyes  Badgers  Badgers  Badgers  Badgers  Hawkeyes  
Panthers  Panthers  Orangemen  Orangemen  Orangemen  Orangemen  Orangemen  
Wahoos  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  Wahoos  Mountaineers  Mountaineers  
Terps  Heels  Terps  Heels  Terps  Heels  Terps  
Wildcats  Spartans  Wildcats  Spartans  Spartans  Spartans  Spartans  
Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  lions  lions  Eagles  
Wolverines  Boilers  Wolverines  Boilers  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  
Tigers  Gators  Tigers  Gators  Tigers  Gators  Gators  
Bulldogs  Tide  Tide  Bulldogs  Tide  Tide  Tide  
Raiders  Longhorns  Raiders  Longhorns  Raiders  Raiders  Longhorns  
Aggies  Mustangs  Aggies  Mustangs  Aggies  Mustangs  Mustangs  
Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  
Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Devils  Seminoles  Devils  Seminoles  
Irish  Irish  Irish  Middies  Irish  Irish  Irish  

~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t________________Fr-id-ay_,N_ov-em-be-r2-,l-98-4~-pa-ge-13 
Life after Carter-Mondale has been good 
As a Ut:mocrat, I know the Carter-Mondale team gave a lot to America: five economic pro­grams, 12.4 precent inflation, 21.5 percent prime rates and 7.5 percent unemployment. When these two economic wizards left us, everything was rising, except our national 
Joseph Murphy 
here I stand 
sptrtt (and the growth of real per capita 
income which was a negative .6 of on-e per­
cent). 
Today, the lesser half of that team is back 
carrying the same inflated political football for 
big goverment. Vice President Mondale il­
lustrates the danger of playing football with­
out a helmet -he has become the Dizzy 
Warrior. 
Mr. Vice President, if you have the answers to pur nation's problems, why in your four year huddle with Jimmy Carter did you not give him any? 
You claim you are not now the same man you were under Carter, that you have matured and are ready to be our quarterback; however, you are today following the Carter-Mondale game plan. 
In 1984, you continue to talk offairness and compassion, but what is so fair and compas­sionate about double-digit inflation, rising in­terest rates and rising unemployment which your five ecomonic programs brought us? 
Vice President Mondale, inflation hurts those on a fixed income the most-the elderly, the poor and the minorities. A president must know this and prevent inflation from occur­ring. President Reagan does and has. 
You say the Reagan recovery has been built on record deficits; however, over the last 20 years you democrats have amassed a trillion dollar deficit for America, and all you brought us was economic chaos. 
Mr. Vice President, your new realism of 
1984 means higher taxes in 1985. These taxes 
would end the Reagan relief, and return us to a 
more equal society -one where everyone is 
poor and unemployed. 
To quote President John F. Kennedy: "An 
economy hampered by restrictive tax rates 
will never produce enough revenue to bal­
ance the budget -just as it will never produce 
enough jobs or enough profits. In short, it is 
the paradoxical truth that tax rates are too 
high today and tax revenues are too low -and 
the soundest way to raise revenues in the long 
run is to cut rates now." You've obviously 
been listening to the wrong Kennedy, Mr. 
Vice President. 
In our hearts we know your wrong. If 
Reagan's economic program has been unfair 
to some -your many have been unfair to all. 
You told the poor to help themselves, and they did -to our wallets. President Reagan is helping the poor help themselves, but not at the expense of working men and women. In­stead of just expanding the welfare system, the President has expanded the economic sys­tem. 
By creating six million new jobs in the last 21 months, President Reagan has provided the poor with an opportunity no amount of gov­ernment handouts possiblely could. Vice President Mondale, your intentions may have been good, but your impact sacked the Ameri­can people. 
After your loss, you'll probably be able to find a job (hopefully. not in government) thanks to Reagan's flourishing recovery. 
In foreign affairs though, you'll get the American team rolling · problem is we'll land in the wrong endzone. Under Carter, you ex­perienced it all: the Russian invasion of Af­ghanistan, the failure of your own democratic senate to ratify the SALT II Treaty, the fall of pro-American regimes in Iran and Nicaragua to anti-American forces. 
Mr. Vice President, you proudly say you have been involved in every arms limitation treaty since you came to Washington. Then you should know, as every president and even most senators (especially the late Scoop Jack­son) know, the Soviets have violated many provisions ofyour agreements. 
You complain of CIA booklets in Nicaragua, but had you acted to save the Somoza regime there would be no need for covert aid to over­throw the Marxist-Leninists now in control. 
President Reagan sees The Bear and knows its power. Thanks to the President, El Salvador has not become another communist country like your Nicaragua. Supporting Notre Dame graduate President Duarte of El Salvador, Ronald Reagan's economic and military aid have given Duarte the time to create a climate for peace. Today negotiations between the rebels and Duarte are underway. Human rights are improving rapidly. That is a fact, and a president must know this. 
The Bear has attacked our Pope, holds the Pope's homeland hostage and has struck down a civilian aircraft. A president must grasp the reality of these actions. 
Though we did not build the Berlin Wall, we can help tear it down. Peace through Strength is our motto since your peace through weakness failed to keep the Bear in his territory. We're gradually putting the Rus­sians back in their cage. 
Mr. Vice President, I could go on about President Reagan's successes, but Tbe Obseroer has a limit on "space" (just like you do). 
As I write, the pages of history are being written on the fall of your liberalism. The Carter-Mondale administration was its last chapter, and your 1984 campaign its final footnote. 
Your own teammates (such as Hart and Hol­lings) tried to take the ball from you, but you had a big blocker (Tip O'Neill). Your game plan was not to pick up the ball and run up the field with it· but break left. 
You should have quit while you were be­hind. When you left in 1980, the fans were just booing, now they're going to throw you out of the stadium. We give you our thanks for at least you played the game honestly. 
To the American fans, I say this election will mark not only the Gipper's last victory, but hopefully the first ofmany for the Gipper's sol­diers ofopportunity. 
In Congressman John Hiler, the Third Dis­trict of Indiana has such a winner. After first being elected in 1980, John Hiler has helped bring over 40,000 jobs to his district by sup­porting lower taxes which continue to booster the economy of Indiana and the na­tion. The ripple effect of these new jobs im­proves the lives of all Hoosiers and for this reason alone John Hiler deserves re-election. 
While his opponent has been throwing wild jabs at the Congressman, John Hiler has been bringinghome jobs for the people. What more can we ask? 
To my fellow democrats, I urge you for the sake of our party and our country to trust the powers of government to those who have proven most responsible. We cannot afford a replay of the late I 970's. 
In four short years with President Reagan, we have replaced excuses for why goverment does not work with leadership that works. Our cause for optimism comes from a faith, not in Mondale's big government, but in our­selves. The future demands a new destiny. Our hope for progress rests with those who have brought us back to life after Carter­Mondale and given us a renewed optimism. 
So my friends, get out of the stands and on to the field. Win one not only for the Gipper, but all people. The game has just begun. 
joseph Murphy is a sophomore govern­ment!~nternational relations major and is the Assistant Viewpoint Editor at The Observer. 
President Reagan's.policies on Central America 
The real problem effecting the United States in Central America is not the absurd spectre of Soviet tanks rolling across Mexico into Texas. No, the real problem is the paranoia and militarism of Ronald Reagan and his administration. Beyond the emotionalism 
Richard Pilger 
guest column 
of Reagan's attempts to justify his views on Central America lie few if any facts. Further, if Americans are sincere when they claim their chief virtue to be a belief in freedom and democracy, there is no way for us to make a country's popular preferance for the commu­nist ethic ofeconomic parity throughout their society into a moral aberration. 
There is no convincing evidence of Soviet intervention in El Salvador. The President has relied on the white paper "Communist Inter· ference in El Salvador" in claiming such a Rus­sian connection. That document was destroyed by critical analysis that left the State Department admitti,.ng to its contrived and misleading nature. Reagan then trotted out some blurry 1V footage of an alleged smug­gling run by communist ships. Also presented was the correspondence of serial numbers on 
U.S. made rebel weapons to those on weapons we lost in Vietnam. It was not stressed that communist Vietnam put those weeaons on the open market long ago. In short, every piece ofproof that Reagan tries to put forward of an expanding Soviet military influence is weak if not perjurious. Even Reagan's third ambassador to El Salvador, Thomas Pickering, admitted "no single piece of evidence pre· 
Viewpoint Correction 
sented here could be called a smoking gun or 
silver bullet." 
In Nicaragua , the "freedom fighters " 
against the internationally recognized govern­
ment are mainly propagandized bandits, many 
of whom were mainstays of the Somoza fam­
ily's brutal grip on that country as members 
and executives of the National Guard and 
moneyed elite. They fled to Honduras when 
the Somoza regime was overthrown because 
they were responsible for the most savage 
atrocities Nicaragua has ever known. They 
were then recruited and funded by Reagan's 
CIA to " harass" the communist government 
in Managua, but despite official claims to the 
contrary the action was turned into a full-scale 
war waged by land, air, and sea to topple the 
legal government. 
Recent disclosure of the military methods promoted by Reagan's CIA illuminate the moral indifference of America's influence , as does Reagan's endorsement of completely illegal mercenary operations organized here to support the insurgents. This escalating in­terventionism, carefully controlled by the CIA because the contras proved ineffective, has been condemned by the World Court which ordered its stop and declared its illegality. To avoid the Court's order Reagan petulantly or­chestrated our sudden denial of its authority, thus showing the world his brand of integrity. 
His administration ha<; also turned a cold shoulder on the peace efforts of the Con· tadora nations meeting in Panama. 'lbey came out with a peace draft acceptible to all parties which needed only minor refinements before everyone would sign it. Suddenly Reagan's ad­ministration couldn't stomach it. After years ofpaying lip service to the Contadora process, when the reality of peace presented its ugly head, Reagan made sure his State Department threw a wrench in the works with haggling over petty but delaying details. 
Because of a production error, a guest column in yesterday's Viewpoint section by PeterS. Brown was improperly printed. The Observer will reprint this column at a later date. 
Since Reagan took office our military pres­
ence in Hoduras has leapt dramatically. The 
'"Big Pine" manoeuvres involving thousands 
of U.S. troops operating there have been 
scheduled almost continuously into 1988; " 
requiring" a permanent force of roughly 2000 
troops and complex infrastructure of roads , 
ports, air-strips and static defenses, and effect­
ing a semi-permanent troop presence of 
thousands more. Honduras borders on both El 
Salvador and Nicaragua. 
A comparison to the buildup in Vietnam 
cannot be avoided with trite dodges and 
phases such as "Vietnam Syndrome"which im­
ply some misfunction in a nation trying to 
avoid repeating a tragic and complex mistake. 
And the fact remains that Reagan has always 
asserted the dim notion that we should or 
even could have won that war. 
Reagan cannot divorce ideal communism's nature from the distorted version foisted on a credulous world by McCarthy, Stalin and the Gang of Four; its real nature, its chief and driving force derives from properties far dif· ferent than any demonic powers ofsome"Evil Empire." No, the power comes from the eco· nomic fairness ideal communism affords. It was no Soviet weapon that propelled the Viet Cong and NVA to triumph, it was the deter­mination of the Vietnamese populace to achieve social justice that enabled them to press on in the face of staggering losses. Whe­ther or not Vietnam is now a fair state, its ex­ample and that of Russia, France and the U.S. 
prove that oppression will ferment revolu­tions. 
Reagan does not understand this reality. He seeks only to address symptoms of the ram· pant ecomomic disparities in Central America. Ifht: truly sought peace in the region he would sincerely press to strip tt ': privileged oligarchies of their fabulous wealth 
The Observer 
P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 1219! 239·5303 
rn~ OI'J~'~' .., !"~ .na~Df'"Hleont ..,f'.,..SP.at-~f'' cuOHSP'Ieo 0~ ::11~ ;tudent~. vt lhe Unrvf'rSrlr of''"·"~ Oam~ c:Ju ld· .. n(J s...,.,. Md'J' 'S COII~Qe I! !.lOPS no( :'\e•;t"S,.,,., rettecr 111~ Vflh, ·~~ ot r~-te oJdtnrnrst•oJtror u• e•tl"l~r ,n~trlui•·J, The news •!> rep<'\rted .tS 4' .:::~..r· .•.• , ttnd d') ,,crect•~f''r d': ~ vSS•blf' U"!>•~""ed t"J•IC'••IIS reptesent !he f)()rnro., ul d .....,, .••,"' II'\(' Ed"·'''4 B-l••d C<Jn•r••(lnt.ar.es oP!lE>t~ oJt'l(J lht> II'I'S•flf' Corum., Ll'f"!-••"1 '"•· J't'.,..S •.t tP\flo·• 4ul,t·•S Co•.~rnn ~~)dC(' •'I .l~.l•'.lbre 10 art mE>mfler'> or lh,. , 1 Jn\muf'lrl~ dr'lol lht• ,,.,., t>•OJ•,.S'> ..r! ,,r ,_.r,.nr.; .•prnrun-: -,n c.ampus lhltlut;F\ I("IIPI~ 
and stranglehold on the peasants. But Reagan 
does not understand poverty or its causes. He 
cannot accept the obvious necessity of fairly 
redistributing wealth here or anywhere in the 
world. He turns a blind eye on the long history 
of abuse that has whipped Salvadorans into 
rebellion, just as he blinds himself to the 
similarity of our own revolution to those of 
communist states. 
Reagan's main criticism of Nicaragua is the 
"undemocratic" nature of its government. 
Well ofcourse a government that has recently 
emerged from a bloody revolution isn't going 
to be a perfect democracy, but neither is the 
U.S. (which had no real constitution for over a decade after the Declaration of Independence ). The only right we have to influence the emerging governmental system of another country is the "right" ofsuperior force. Surely we are growing out of that pretense. 
Perhaps the best example of Reagan's reck­lessness came with Mexican President Miguel de Ia Madrid's visit to Washington in May. He told Congress that Central American prob­lems cannot be so"lved militarily and are the result of "economic deficiencies, political backwardness and social injustice that have af­flicted the countries of that area. We, therefore, cannot accept its becoming part of the East-West confrontation, nor can we ac­cept reforms and structural changes being viewed as a threat to the sel·urity interests of other countries of the hemisphere." This from a man supposedly under the guns ofa horde of Soviet dupes. Obviously his background and position make his attitude far more plausible than the one Reagan inflicted on us a week 
later when he again raised the tired image of Soviet proxies on our border. 
Richard Pilger is a sophomore in the Col· lege ofArts & Letters atNotre Dame. 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Caaor ,,. CtJtrt  Bot' VoncJerhe•Ot'  8usfi•E"5S ~•n•g~r  ~ve-T•,cle-1  
Mdn•qmg Ea•ror Nr~~ fd,to' • flit-""~ Ed•to•  Mart. Worsc;hp,.., SaraF'I Hdmolton Dan McC~t;<.uljJh  Controll•r Aa"~'''s•ng AA~n•g•• C•tCui.J/•0" M•n~g•'  ~anpat Ho•ne A.l"tne Culhgan Jf'II0Ne•ll  
.S..,nt o\4'dl)' s E.driQt  A,..ne Mol\.l!il.,•st.·  ~~SffOtnS U.an.tg'l!"'  K.t!'vtn W1llt•ms  
Soorrs Ed•IOt  M•cna~l &Jih..,,.n  
V••.,.,DO•"t l:t1•I01  o.~.,~G"''~~"  
fPdlur.,s E.rJ•tOI Pnoro fd•IOI  Mar., H~41., Pe-te lotcf1t>5  Founded NovemMr 3,1966  

o~ pn(1JUI dQfld 
-
'. 
Sports Briefs 
Student basketball ticket applications and pay­
ment will be collected next week according to the following schedule: seniors, Monday; juniors and students in their ninth se­mester or higher, Tuesday; sophomores, grad and law students, Wednesday; freshmen, Thursday. Distribution will be from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day. -The Observer 
The ND basketball teams, both the men's and 
women's, will be having intrasquad games on Sunday, Nov. 11 in the ACC. The women's game will begin at 6:30p.m., and the men will follow at approximately 7:30p.m. Student tickets are on sale now for S1 at gate 10 of the ACC.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will be 
meeting for a serimmage on Sunday at I p.m. on Cartier Field.· The Observer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will be having its 
third annual bench press meet on Saturday, Nov. 10, at 1 p.m. in the third-floor weight room in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone, including varsity athletes, who is interested may sign up in the weight room at the Rockne Memorial or the ACC. An entrance fee of $2 will be charged to pay for awards. · The Observer 
Friday, NoveLber 2, 1984-page 14 
Anutritional program seminarwill be held 
on Sunday at 2 p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre by the Notre Dame Weightlifting Club. All are welcome to attend the seminar, which will be conducted by the Shakley Corporation ofllli_nois. · The Observer 
Stepan Center court time may be reserved by 
any interested club or organization. Representatives should request 
times in the Student Activities Office on the first floor of LaFortune 
by today. · The Observer 
Club and interhall basketballentries are due 
by Wednesday, Nov. 7. Rosters and proof of insurance should be submitted to the NVA office. Complete entry rules are available at the office. · The Observer 
Interhall hockey entries are due at the NVA of­fice on Wednesday, Nov. 7. Complete entry rules are available at the office. · The Observer 
A one-on-one basketball tournament is being sponsored by NVA. The tournament will have two divisions for men: those over six feet tall, and those shorter than six feet. Double elimi· nation will be in effect after the second round. The registration deadline at the NVA office is Friday, Nov. 9. ·The Observer 
Transactions are made in hockey 
Assodatcd Press 
Yesterday's transactions in profes­sional sports: 
National Hockey League 
NHL suspended Paul Holmgren, right wing, of the Minnesota North Stars for 10 games for his spearing action in a game against Hartford on October 27. 
Hartford Whalers re-called Marty Howe, defenseman, from Bingham­ton ofthe American Hockey League. 
St. Louis Blues loaned Brian Ben­ning, defenseman, to Kamloops of the Western Hockey League. 
Vancouver Canucks waived Rich­ard Brodeur, goaltender. 
Major~doorSoccerLeague 
Minnesota strikers signed Matt Kennedy, goaltender, to a two-year contract. 

Tbe Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. at'cepts classified advertising from l) a.m. until~ p.m., Monday through friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, acn:pts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though friday. Deadline for next-day das~ifieds is .3 p.m. All dassifieds 
must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per fivt· charac· ters er day. 
Classifieds 
Loat: My GPA, aomewtl.,. In bettie In 
Desperately need 1 Stud.Tix fOf Penn This one·s fOf.you: JULIE V, How's my favorite CPA? You
URBAN PLUNGE!!!
NOTICES Europe between 1400 and 1114. H 
State Game!!Piease call Sue 4366SMC URBAN PLUNGE!!I It looks like you've JUSt lost a bet. but I was move to PA and the Cubs, Bears. and
found C8ll Bernie and tell him that It Ia 
nice about it. Who else throws leaves at Bulls aM move to 1st place! Don't transfer
URBAN PLUNGE!!!
mine. Thanlll. 
NMd two atudMt tlckata for the PENN 
people at night? untilaftertheSuper Bowt! Willl-you at STATE. Hyou ~n help .,.....call Dan
TYPING AVAI~E. 287-4082. f'enn State? Hope so! CO
REMINDER ORIENTATlON111740. 
L.T.T. Let's talk about victim's rights. YouWORKSHOP THIS SUNDAY FROM 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A don't have to apologize for what you did. HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE MILO­
1:30 TO 3:30 IN THE UBRARY
need Penn State tickets call Jim 2n-3616
BEUY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272· MANNERED MAN FROM MEDINA. I 1858 Ode to 234 I am aft set. I wil not miss A hope you are selective in receiving 
FOR RENT 
AUDITORIUM. IRING YOUR LEARN­
ING AGREEMENTS AND FIVE DOL· LARS. chance to get, a tittle kiss Or something birthday kisses ·cause rm going to be 
Penn State tickets. Penn State tickets 
TYPING more. My fire is Ht. I'm burning for The watching. HAPPY 22nd JEFFREY MI­
ROOMMATE WANTED FOR MALE I need two, I need two
Jackie Bogga Passion Pit. NOI/9 Nov 9 Nov 9 Nov 9 Nov CHAEL! Love, Me.
P.S. ·IRING SOMETHING TO WRfTESTUDENT. $135 MONTH INClUDES ca. me if you got 10me
684-8793 WITHIll 9
UTILITIES. 705 RIVERSIDE DR. 28&-Gall me if you got some 
KEVIN, THANK GOO I DIE GET OUT (of1605 Vince at2, 5-3-8 
GARY HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! Love going to an SYR with you). Laurie L. TYPING AVAI~E. 287-4082. and Miss You Much!! Your Cal. HTH URBAN PLUNOEIII 
NO HOCKEY· GO GET 'Ell, IRISH. FOR SALE: EXCEUENT SEAT TO
OOVERNIIENT .IOU. 118,511 • URBAN PLUNGE!ll HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB 
BIUY SQUIER CONCERT-WILL SEU
SIO,IU/YEAR. NOW HIRING. YOUR WANTED URBAN PLUNGEIII FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH HEY YOU! WANT A PERSONAL TOUR 
AT COST CALL 3480 ASK FOR "C"
AREA. CALL 101-117-8000 EXT. A-8-11 pm FR·SA 8pm·1 am OF CHICAGO, A CHANCE TO SHOP AT 1134. WATER· TOWER PLACE AND A
FIND OUT WHERE YOU ARE GOINGNEED 2 GA & 1 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST ATTENTION ALL DEIIGN EDITORS GREEK MEAL? SIGN UP NOW-THE
FOR THE PLUNGEIII
Boaton area famiNes seek quality 

CALL LAURA 284-5401 childcare in exchange lor room, board.
TYPING SERVICE AND A8811TANT8 TlleiW Ia a .,..._ BUS LEAVES AT 8:00AM THIS SUN­
277-eo45 tory production .,_..,..,,, ,....ng DAY, NOV.4. TIME IS RUNNING OUT·
GO TO THE ORIENTATlONand 1 competitive salary. Pleue contact IIY CONORE88MAN -IIY HERO -IIY
PICKUP AND DEUVERY on Tueaday, Nov. 8 at 8:30. You -..at GO IMMEOIATEL Y TO 325 O'SHAG! 
WORKSHOP THIS lUNDAY FROM
Kate Goldfield at 617-332-6056 or Beth SUMMER EMPLOYER (I HOPEII) IS 
be there, and that'a a th,....l
1:30 TO 3:30 IN THE UIIRARYIngram at 617-Bn-7739 or write to The CO.NG FOR THE PENN. STATE LARGE SCREEN TV LARGE SCREENAUDITORIUII. IRING 15, YOURFamity Exdlange, Inc.• 25Lakeview Ave.,
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-1117 GAME. PLEASE SELL liE AT LEAST TV!! Come watch the Notre Dame-Navy
LEARNING AGREEMENT, AND A PEN. 
Newton, MA. 02160. 
TWO GA TlX. I CAN ALSO THROW IN game in Chataqua on Saturday. Refraah· 
OH IIYI
Studenla intereeted in receiving the com­lOME PENN. STATE STUD TlX. THIS menta, FUN,Figllting Irish Spirit andit'I all
NEEDED!!! Part-time retail sales person­MAN II THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
puting newa~en. FREE!!
nel for CORNERSTONE. Seeking ~. IT'S THAT HUNGRY GUY.
HOUSE PRC>UFE CAUCUS (I'll DES­
Bytellne 
gregarioul individuals who enjoy leiling PERATE I HAD TO MENTION THAT),
should call Betty Praklet at 23&-5934 to AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO
family active--. Hourly wage $4.00. 
10 DO YOUR PART TO STAMP OUT Apply in person at Buyer's Marketplace,
get on the rnaiNng Net. AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO 
ABORTION BY KEEPING TH. MAN AM STEREO WVFI IS GOING AM5901 North Grape Ad. St. Gov't Lobby Commission reminds
St. Gov't Lobby Commillion reminds HAPPY. CALL (277·7570) SAVE THE WAKE liE UP BEFORE YOU Q().. STEREO: Your dorm wiH be AM st•eo
STUDENTS REGISTERED TO VOTE IN UNBORN!IIIIIl
you: MAIL YOUR ABSENTEE BALLOT oo...to the Prograaalve llualc soon -OR -stop by the booth at La
WANTED-DEAD OR AUVE Five ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA: ON·
THIS WEEK CHANCE TO DANCE. Thla SATURDAY Fortune beginning Nov. 5 and CHECI\ IT
Deaign Edltcn and five aaeiat;ana to CAMPUS STUDENTS • VOTE IN In the Chautauqua l1lroom (that'a OUT! AM STEREO AM STEREO AMahow up II the T~ production STEPAN CENTER ON TUESDAY OFF·
VOTE ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6. aecond ftoor Lafortune, dummy), atart· STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM
meeting II 8:30. CAMPUS STUDENTS • VOTE IN YOUR
PERSONALS lngIllp.m. lloveyour feat to the rock· STEREO AM STEREO
ASSIGNED PRECINCTS ON TUESDAY
WORDPROCE88ING AND TYPING. lngeM e..t lrOUnd. PIIC nllel1ibwa
NEED SET OF HOCKEY EQUIPMENT
272-8127. "-•general public11· BUTHEY! Firat HAPPY BIRTHDAY JEHSKII
Paul4052 ENDAO CTHULHU SAVES!!! 
50 II the door -In"-· Willard aaya,
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234·
Hey .. you production ltaff people. "Bethere, ac:hlepp."
0363. 24 hour hotlinelfree pregnancy test 
there Ia • rMndatofy ..... meeting SABUKA LOVERS, -are 3 good­
available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
on T~. November 8 at 8:30. It The Running Warriors looking transfer students looking fOf some
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!
FOR SALE
ehould be a ,... tun dme. • I au,. HOT SAMBUKA. the PAINTERS. 
OAR HOUSE: COlO BEER & LIQUOR,
hope you c.~ IIIUe lt. .. or ...., Mike Luby, Shennan Ritchie, JUSTIN BOOTS BRAND NEW All Rickluby, Jim Cornua, HEY CHRIS ... ARE WE ON FOR THE
CARRY OUT TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE IIARY O'MEARABLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PRO-TYPE Ov• 14 yn. ol experience. LEATHER WOMEN'S 7B $100 RANDY Keith Feaster, John Zawada, MOVIE THIS WEEKEND OR WHAT? 
Computerized ..vice. Dia.tations, law 272-6815 Shawn Killen, Coach Pat Ritchie. ...THE TEASE. SAFE TO THRASH!!I
papers, ltUdenl papers 277·5833. 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 4
2TIXPENNST.233-21630R234-5n8. Walllh Jesuit 
VOTE FOR JUSTICE YOU MAY NEED 19840hioMA NEED TICKETS to Penn State. Parents 
AnENTION FEATURES WRITERS AT·
IT lOME DAY VOTE DEMOCRATlC State Croee Country
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY! 
..............................................................;. want to see first NO football game. Hey, Champions TENTION FEATURES WRITERS AT· 
they're my parents, what can laay. Please TENTIOH FEATURES WRITERSTICKETS sell me 2 GAs. or I am in the dog's house. 
ATTENTlOH FEATURES WRITII!RI AT· Cell Maureen at 1333. TENTION FEATURES: There wiN be a mandatory meeting this WeclrlMday night at 7 In the Utile Theatre c:A Lafortune.
LOST/FOUND I TDFB 
NEED 2 Penn State G.A. ·s. Call3537!! SENIOR There are loti olexating things to discuss
REFLECTION 
and refraahments will be HrVed 10....... . 
L08Tl LOlli L08Tl PENN ST GAs FOR SAI..E.272-6306 ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC ARMY GROUPS 
DON'T IIIII IT DON'T IIIII IT DON'T
11" GOLD HERRINO-BONE ROTC DORM RECRUITING THIS
THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A MA­
11188 IT DON'T IIIII IT DON'T Mill IT
NECKLACE HEY!! You don't.-nna-thoeeguys WEEK AND NEXT!!!!! SEE YOUR SIGN UP IN THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL
TURE RESPONSE 
DON'T MilS IT DON'T IIIII IT DON'T
EXTRIEIIE IENT111ENTAL VALUEI J*y Penn lbt8!1 don't either-but my OOFIM AEP. ON HOWYOU CAN APPLY CONCERNS NOWlll 
11188 IT DON'T IIIII lT
REWARD IF FOUND friend from P8U --to gloat... lo MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK FOR 3 AND 2 YEAR ROTC SCHOLAR· CALL11C7 Mil me your STUDENT TICKET to P8U SHIPS. 
HAPPY 20TH JENNY! (A COUPLE
Pl.EAH! .-.You'l fell e.n.r for lt. Cell Keith 
DAYS EARLY)
3345. Please identify yourselve1 so that wa can SENIOR lhare some SAMBUCA with you. Love, RELFECTION PITT BUS RIDERS: I letta Gimbel'llhop­HELP! I NEED 4 PENN GAs...CALL SUE THE SAMBUCA LOVERS OF NOTRE GROUPS Ill 
ooooooooooh my, it's that guy!!!! ping bag with a birthday pr_..t and 38432 DAME P.S. A clue to our identity: We ~ve SHALOM KNEVA!LET'S GO some albums (they can be identified by NOTRE DAilE HOCKEY premiere girls' dorm on South Quad WANT TO KNOW IIOAE?? BOWLING.BUT I HAVEN'T HAD A This Friday and Saturday at the Ice Rink 
their skips) on the bul when I got olf at Need lois ol tickets to Penn State CHANCE TO TALK TO SELL them to me! against Penn State. Support your local JEANNE Nev• let a man A WHEAT
SMC. "you happened to take it with you, BOWMAN: STOP BY THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL HIM.SAVAAIA!WHAT hockey team ro victCKY' Students
please call Stephanie at 284·5526. Call 3811 for an off•. Don't start talking walk you to your bungalow (and -CONCERNS-NOW!Il THIN.IT"S TIME FOR A FREE!IIllll
Thank&. about bowl games yet. thought -had h-d all the FEEDING.STEVE AND DAVE AND 
lines) ... Tomorrow will be our work day...ls CHRIS WERE WONDERFUL THANKS LOST: A TAN, WHITE, AND OLIVE 2 NAVYGA"S4 SALE. PAUL2119 rum raisin your favorite? ... Let's just look ... FOR A GREAT TIME.WE LOVE JACKET. HAD A FEW TOO MANY IM· Do you realize that it's been six months HI FOAL YOU.HAPPY BIRTHDAY' 
ROB AND GEARY: WEAR YOUR WATEAWlNGS SUNDAY NITE. 
PORTS AT CORBY'S AND LEFT IT Need Penn State tix-Student Of G.A. Call since ... I just don't know how much longer Are you watching? THERE THURS.,OCT.11. IT MEANS Fran 2598 I can stand it... It's all biologicaL That's a just checking Campus Crusade IOf Cthultlu 11 looking Any girls int•ested in seeing "Giant"'
AL.OT TO ME' PLEASE CALL JIM AT scary thought... There's another pole Your Brother fOf a few good men. women, and others. 3444!!! Need Penn State G.A. tix to help Frank Gerry Grealilh and Rob "Telephone­blocking that parking space... Leon. wil Prefer people who like to work at night and 
and Judy (My mom and dad) celebrate Pole" Bennett WET come to mass at Car· you take a picture? ...No more than $5 for with small furry sacrifices. Also looking fOf LOST: GOLD TIE BAA BETWEEN their anll!Vers&ry. Gall Maria 417 4 rolf Hall Sunday nile. h.mch... I feel sick ... We remain B squared WAKE UP THE ECHOES an altar virgin NORTH DINING HALL AND GRACE minus T squared... Tomorrow wil be our WAKE UP THE ECHOES HALL ON THE TUESDAY BEFORE WE SELL SEX! & next belt thing: 4-40 yd Gerry HAPPY BIRTHDAY FROM THE work day... realy... Jeanne. I had a great WAKE UP THE ECHOES Campus Crusade fOf Cthulhu is planning BREAK. GREAT SENTIMENTAL PSU tix. ~I olfer. 284-5119. FISHTANKI!! But what good are you if time last week. You are ··a good one·· Come see "Wake up the echoee·· a trip to Miskat001c u. during Can<lemas. VALUE. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL your not legal? (Princeton thmks so, too). Next break... in Cavanaugh's TV lounge at 7 p.m. B. Y O.E.S. (Bring your own elder signs) KEVIN AT 4009, OR 239-7672. l"mouth•enakedfOfPENNSTATEGA's COLOAA.OO! we·re there ... Love ya! Friday 
$$$$$$$$ call JOE AT 3554 Anne Sir James. So tell me. what do you think FOUND LADY'S WATCH 11/01 IN St. Gov"t. Lobby Commission reminds about J. J. and J? (The bear wants to
··-·············· FRONT OF CAVANAUGH CALL TOM WANTED: 2 Penn State Tix WiH pay' Call you: MAIL YOUR ABSENTEE BALLOT She Slid. dor,.t put in anything about me. You don't have to prove ANYTHING! know.) What can I say except: I love you. 
2466 MICHEUE 2674 THIS WEEK my hair is a mess. But, fOf God sake, let"s try to work this out. Kiddo (alias Killer) 

The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 15 
NCAA could get back into football televisiOn 

THE "FIGHTING IRISH'S" Other Speciality Team, 
THE SHERATON GRANDE HOTEL BUTLERS. 

• FOR "THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE" ... let America's distinctive butlered "TIME OF YOUR LIFE" WEEKEND 
hotel make your visit to los Angeles more than that all too familiar game 
PACKAGE
weekend "Road Trip". We have a butler on every floor to pamper your every whim and loads of complimentary services like free health club facil­ities. turndown service. and morning coffee with a newspaper. And if that is not enough. we're a direct dive play into the Coliseum (our location is less than 10 minutes from the stadium). 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CllY, Mo. -Whether the NCAA gets back in the football tele­vision business may depend on the outcome ofa lawsuit the NCAA isn't even directly involved in, a spokes­man said yesterday. 
A ruling Wednesday by a federal judge in New Mexico, however, seems to hand the NCAA one of its few victories in the three-year legal battle over control of college foot­ball telecasts. Judge Juan Burciaga, reversing an order he made in 1982, said the NCAA can offer a television plan to its member schools as longas 
it follows guidelines established by . the U.S. supreme Court in its ruling 
injune. 
Burciaga also affirmed the NCAA's 
right to ban schools from appearing 
on television if they are found in 
violation of rules. 
However, many observers feel a 
suit filed by the Association of Inde­
pendent Television Stations Inc. has 
raised questions that must be an­
swered before any group can try to 
administer college football telecasts. 
"The NCAA football television 
committee met today by conference 
call and agreed not to pursue the de­
velopment of a future television 
plan," said Dave Cawood, director of. 
television programming for the maintains that restrictions the CFA peals courts also suggested that Bur­NCAA. "We won't do it unless the puts on its schools in its contracts ciaga should consider modifying his members indicate to the committee with ABC and ESPN constitute order restraining the NCAA from that they would like it to develop an restraint of trade and are anti­any future television contract. option." competitive -the same legal points, 
Cawood said the original case say Cawood and others, which An attempt failed last summer to against the NCAA by Oklahoma and caused the NCAA to take a hiding bring all the major football schools Georgia "set the law on the assign­from the courts. under one administrative umbrella ment of television rights. The No hearing date has been set. for television purposes. The 63­second, we believe, may set the law Burciaga heard the original suit member CFA signed one-year agree­on how far you can assign those brought by Oklahoma and Georgia ment with ABC and ESPN while the rights -on what restrictions, if any, in 1981 charging the NCAA with Pac-10 and Big Ten conferences schools can impose themselves in violating antitrust law in forcing went with. CBS. Those schools will this area. It's possible the courts may schools to take part in its television meet in Dallas Dec. 13-14 to try rule that everybody is on his own." plan. again to work out a television coali­
The suit by Independent Televi­Appeals courts upheld that fin­tion. The result of Burciaga's ruling sion Stations Inc. names the College ding, climaxed by the U.S. Supreme on the possibility of a coalition was Football Association as plaintiff. It Court'sjune 27 decision. But the ap-unclear. 
Colts or not, Philadelphia Stars will move to Baltimore next season 
Associated Press But Tanenbaum said he's not when USFL owners approved a worried about the possibility of Bal­switch from a spring to a fall 
BALTIMORE -Confident ofreach­timore's winning the lawsuit and schedule in 1986. The switch put ing an agreement to play football in winding up with twofootball teams. the Stars in direct competition with this city by the fall of 1986, Philadel­"There's not a prayer that that's the NFL's Philadelphia Eagles for the 
phia Stars owner Myles Tanenbaum going to happen," he said. "I worry use ofVeterans Stadium. announced yesterday he's changed more about what I'm going to have An immediate move to Baltimore, the name of the United States Foot­for lunch than that." however, was precluded because 
ball League team to the Baltimore Schaefer, who did not attend the Orioles baseball team has exclu­Stars, and the team will play its 1985 Tanenbaum's 10 a.m. press confer­sive use of city-owned Memorial spring season 40 miles away in Col­ence, held a news conference of his Stadium durin'g the spring. The Stars lege Park. own at 11 a.m. to say he had met are still negotiating for the use of The news was met with enthusi­with Tanenbaum and was pleased Memorial Stadium for the fall 1986 
asm by Mayor William Donald with Tlfnenbaum's commitment to schedule. Schaefer, even though he said the Baltimore. But Schaefer said he ex­Next spring's nine-game home city would continue its litigation to pects Tanenbaum to ask for a long­schedule and any home playoff 
reclaim the Colts of the National term commitment at Memorial games will be played at the univer­Football League through eminent Stadium, and that's not possible just sity's Byrd Stadium in College Park, domain. yet. Tanenbaum said. Season tickets 
The Colts left Baltimore for In­"There are a whole lot of other went on sale Thursday for S99. dianapolis on March 28, and the city things·that have to be taken into ac­Tanenbaum sees the College Park filed a lawsuit March 30 seeking to count before we can discuss a long­schedule as a one-year stopover on 
condemn the Colts' assets, reim­term commitment," the mayor said. the way from Philadelphia to Bal­
burse owner Robert Irsay for the The Stars, who compiled a 35-6 timore. "I have absolutely no doubt value of the franchise and force the record in the USFL's first two years, that we're going to be here (in Bal­team to return. were forced to leave Philadelphia timore) indefinitely," he said. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
• Per night. per person. douhle occupancy. plusCALL: 800-325-3535 
wx and hellman's ).'fatuities. With the Sheraton Family Plan. up to 2 children age 17 & under stay 
and ask for free in same room with adults in existing bedding. Rate available through Dec. Jl. 19X4. Advance
"The Time of Your Life" 333 SOUTH FIGUEROA STREET reservations required. Subject to limited avail­
LOS ANGELES. CA 90071 ability. Ask for the "Time of Your Life Package." 
21 3/617-1133 Not applicable to ).'Toups or conventions.VVeekend Package. 
I1 i The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984-page 16 
'\ 
I 
', \ "Our size should help us get the Thebeau and senior Rob Ricci are 
I I 
1 Bobby Knight thinks
job done," Ely said. "I think we'll the number-one pair on the depth
Hockey
i'.l work a lot as a checking line, but chart. Pat Foley and Frank O'Brien, we'll be capable of scoring goals, two freshmen, have stepped in and
Continuedfrom page 20 
too." are the No. 2 unit. Junior Greg Dun­
U.S. should not go
Three juniors will be working to­can and freshman Lance Patten will "I really feel that we have more gether on the third line. Center Tom skate together as the third pair of size and speed than last year," Smith Parent, left wing Dave Waldbillig Notre Dame defenders. 
to Pan-Am Games 
\ i ' ~ said. "The speed in particular will be and right wing Steve Whitmore Notre Dame is lucky to have all 
I a big help against teams like Penn spent most of last season playing to­three goaltenders returning from Associated Press Indiana Sports Corp., who will be State that depend a lot on physical gether; and after what Smith says has last year's squad. By season's end, making the formal bid to bring the' play." been a solid pre-season for all three, sophomore Tim Lukenda ( 12-S, INDIANAPOUS -As the mayor of 1987 Games to Indianapolis, said he
~· 
Notre Dame's first line is made up the quickness and scoring potential 3.25 GA) had emerged as the Indianapolis prepares to leave for respected Knight's views but would of two seniors and a freshman. Co­of this line should become apparent number-one man. Senior AI Mexico City in an effort to bring the continue his efforts. captain and last season's leading in the weeks to come. Haverkamp (6-0-l, 2.88 GA) and lOth Pan-American Games to his "Coach Knight has long been a scorer.Brent Chapman ( 29 goals, 40 junior Marc Guay ( 4-0, 2.40 GA) are city, coach Bohby Knight of nearby supporter of our programs and we assists) will skate on the left side Sophomore John Nickodemus is close behind, and also should figure Indiana University is saying the respect his views. However, we have with Tim Reilly patrolling the right back after missing the second half of prominently in the season's plans. United States shouldn't even partici­been encouraged by the U.S. Olym­wing. Freshman Tom Mooney will last season because of academic in­"It's good to know that we have all pate in the event. pic Committee and the U.S. govern­work at center. eligibility and is anxious to return to three back this season," said Smith. Knight, who coached the United ment to undertake and enhance the 
Smith thinks this line has worked action on the left wing of the fourth "Depth at the goaltender position is States basketball teams to a gold Pan-American Games." 
well in practice, both offensively .line. Another freshman, Mark An-good to have." medal in the 1979 Pan-Am Games Boehm will be reviewing In­and defensively, and is expected to quillare, will center this line. Junior Lukenda is listed as the starter for and the 1984 Olympics, said the dianapolis facilities and the experi­carry much of the scoring load. Gary Becker and sophomore Rich tonight. Haverkamp will most likely United States has nothing to gain by ence the city had in making the 1982 
"All of our freshmen have looked Kennedy will split duties on the tend the Irish net tomorrow. participating in future Pan-Am com­National Sports Festival a financial great so far," said Chapman. right side. Kennedy will dress The Irish players and their coach petition. and artistic success for delegates to "They're adjusting to the college tonight and Becker is scheduled to are excited about being a varsity Knight made his statement Wed­the PASO meeting. The local delega­system and playing like upperclas­see action tomorrow. team again. nesday as Indianapolis Mayor tion will also make a 13-minute smen. The games will provide a real Defensively, the Irish have three "We're not saying we'll win every William Hudnut and other represen­audio-visual presentation, largely in
'• \ 
test for all of us." upperclassmen and three freshmen game," said Ricci, "but the move to tatives of the city were heading to a Spanish, to the delegates who are ex­:,\\ \ \ Freshman Mike McNeil will cen­in the starting line-up. The veteran varsity certainly will provide us with weekend meeting in Mexico where pected to vote on a site Monday. 
,, 
ter the second line. Senior Steve Ely blue-line corps members will be a better schedule ofopponents. The the Pan American Sports Organiza­During the 1979 Games, Knight
'-\. 
.\ will add size and strength on the left looked to provide stability and lead­higher caliber competition also will tion is expected to decide the site of was accused ofpunching police offi­side, and juniorJeffBadalich will put ership, while the freshmen will provide much better hockey for fans its 1987 event. cer jose de Silva during a team his experience to work on the right supply their eagerness and enthusi­to watch than what they saw last Both Havana and Indianapolis practice and later was convicted in wing. asm. year." want to serve as host the games. absentia of assault and sentenced to "I don't even think we should be six months in jail and fined S500. "The main reason (the second tually to tie the game with only 26 in the Pan-American Games," Knight Knight contended he was poked in period was so close) was the field," seconds remaining. told Tbe Indianapolis News during the eye by de Silva and wrongly
Soccer 
Grace said. "The field we attacked in The two coaches agreed to play an interview Wednesday prior to a charged. He has not returned to the frist half was much better than only one 12-minute overtime period luncheon where he and North Puerto Rico since the incident.
Continuedfrom page 20 
the one we attacked in the second instead of the usual two 10-minute Carolina's Dean Smith were an­When he was named U.S. Olympic 
half. The half that we defended (in periods since the sky rapidly was nounced as coaches of the Elks­basketball coach, there were some unlucky shots that rebounded off the first period) was the worst part growing dark. Notre Dame won the Basketball Hall of Fame basketball calls that he should be replaced, but the goalpost. of the field. Thus, it was the worst toss and elected to attack the good game next April 27. the U.S. Olympic Committee and the 
Irish midfielder Dave Miles finally part of the field for the offense to end ofthe field. "I think what we get out of the Amateur Basketball Federation· of was able to put a shot in the back of generate anything." Steve Lowney was credited with Pan-American Games in terms of the United States, which is the na­the net, and Notre Dame went ahead In the second period, it was Notre the winning goal when the Valpo competition and everything else is tional governing body for the sport, by two, 3·1. Miles stole the ball from Dame's offense that was forced to goalkeeper knocked Lowney's cor­almost negligible. I've said that from stood by the decision. a Valpo player about 30 yards in play on the muddy part of the field, ner kick into the net. Herdegen then the very beginning. I don't think the Knight, who begins his 14th front of the goal, dribbled by two and the Irish were unable to score. assured the Irish victory when he United States participating in the season as I.U. coach later this month, defenders and directed the ball into took the ball 30 yards, dribbling Pan-American Games is a is pleased with his success in the the goal. The Crusaders, however, did around two defenders and the worthwhile venture for us." Olympics, but said he does not want 
The Crusaders then managed manage to score, coming back even-keeper to score. Ted Boehm, president of the to coach an Olympic team again. their first offensive threat since the opening minutes, and they got off two shots on the Irish goal. One of the shots beat Coughlin, and Valpo 
Bengal's Wilson told to solve drug addiction 
was back in the game at 3·2. 
The Crusaders could not sustain Associated Press had missed a meeting with Bengals' Wednesday to discuss Rozelle's let­participated in an alcohol-drug any offensive strength, however, and management on Wednesday, of the ter, has been through three previous treatment program, after a urinalysis the Irish again went ahead by two CINCINNATI ·The National Foot­contents of Rozelle's order, sent by drug rehabilitation programs since test last week showed he had traces goals. ball League said yesterday it has or­overnight letter to the team. the end of the 1983 season, the Ben· of drugs in his system. 
Pat Szanto accounted for the goal dered Cincinnati Bengals running Rozelle said, "Wilson will be in­gals said. Brown said Wilson has a problem with a head shot off of a corner kick back Stanley Wilson to undergo a eligible to play with any team in the "He's beginning the treatment, or with drugs; but the Bengals execu­
taken from the right corner by Eric drug evaluation, and forbid him to NFL, pending further review of his the rehab," Wyche said. "We hope tive would not reveal any details, Evans. Notre Dame, which olitshot play NFL football until he completes situation after successful comple­that he gets well. He's sick and this is The Cincinnati Enquirer reported the Crusaders, 20-3, in the first half, any prescribed treatment. tion of any prescribed treatment. the fourth try. You can't keep on yesterday. 
held the lead at halftime, 4-2. Wilson, 23, a second-year player Meanwhile, his failure to report for going. He's been treated very well 
In the second half, the Crusaders from Oklahoma, will be suspended if evaluation, or to comply with'any by the Brown family, by the team The Bengals have sent Wilson to came back with force, and they he fails to report for the drug evalua­recommended treatment, will result and by the league. We hope this is drug detoxification centers three began to generate some excellent tion or fails to comply fully with any in immediate suspension hy this of­the one that'll work." times -and paid for the treatment on 
\' offense, while the Irish could not recommended treatment, NFL com­fice." Brown told a Cincinnati newspa­all three occasions · since immedi­sustain any offense as they had in the missioner Pete Rozelle said in a Bengals Coach Sam Wyche said per Wednesday that the Bengals had ately after the 1983 season, the first half. statement he issued from the Wilson stopped by the team's offices suspended Wilson, who recently Enquirer quoted Brown as saying. 
'• Notre Dame Head Coach Dennis league's New York City offices. yesterday to pick up a copy of 
,i Grace attributed the change in the The league withheld announce­Rozelle's letter, then Wilson went momentum of the game to the field ment ofRozellels decision, which he off to begin his latest effort at conditions. During the game, 10 made Tuesday, until the Bengals rehabilitating himself from his drug goals were scored, and eight of them could contact Wilson. Yesterday, problem. Wilson, who missed a were scored at the same end of the the Bengals notified Wilson, who meeting with Bengals' management field because the mud was so bad in 

front of the other goal. 
Correction 
Because of an editing error in yesterday's Obsert'(.,., the incor­rect date was given for the semi­finals of the women's interhall flag football playoffs. The correct date is November 11. 
Ralph A. Casperson Books 
THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS 
ON ALL SUBJECTS 
-WE BUY USED BOOKS ­
HOURS: 
Wed., Sat. 6 Sun. 9 a.m.· 7 p.m. or by appointment 11e1 N.._.elaa_• .... NU.. 683-2888 
Need Extra Christmas 
MONEY?? 
Telephone Sales -Experience preferred but not required. Part or Full time. 
CALL 234-0573 
: Interested in coaching :i Jr. High Basketball?? i :Call Mr. Bill Thomas at Logan Center : : 289-4831 : 
**********************************
SHAMPOO 
(RATED R) 
Starring: Warren Beatty Goldie Hawn Julie Christie Sunday, Nov. 4 and Monday, Nov. 5 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 
En~neeringaudkorium 
$1.50 
**********************************~ 

Free Tailgate Parties· Every Sat. 11 -5 FREE Munchies 
Watch the game on our Satellite Big Screen T.V. 
MR. D's 
1516 N.lronwood South Bend 

233-7747 Ron• Delaere 
The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 17 
NAJA 
-
Continuedfrom page 20 
and digging, and I think we have the best serving team in the conference. There are five girls who can serve aces at any time." 
In addition, as opposed to last year's team, this 1984 squad has a lot ofdepth which has allowed Goralski to make multiple substitutions throughout the season. Against Marion the Saint Mary's coach started a different line-up in each of the five games. 
Enthusiasm for the game is also much more evident this year. "Everybody wants to play and wants to win. They're going to play their hardest (against Marion)," Goralski said. 
This "great attitute" along with their improving volleyball skills are what Goralski thinks could carry the team into the final match against the probable opponent, host Franklin, which is ranked first overall in the conference and eighth in the nation. 
Saint Mary's was not playing on an even keel Monday night as is evident in the lopsided scoring in the five games. 
In the first game, the Belles were often caught off guard as Marion placed the ball well, keying on open Saint Mary's court. And the Lady Titan's blocking stifled the Belle's hitting game. After the score was knotted at 3-3. Saint Mary's was unable to put any more points on the board. 
In the second game of the match, it looked as if Marion would domi­nate once again as they jumped out to a quick 4-0 advantage. The Belles, however, regrouped and chipped away at the Marion lead. With the score 6-9, Marion --and sophomore Patty Williams behind the serving line --Saint Mary's rallied off five consecutive points to take the lead. 
Freshman setter Anne Williard as­sisted available front-row hitters and also had some nice defensive saves. Senior Ann Boutton and sophomore Mary Reidy led the offensive attack as senior Molly Baker capped off the victory with a couple kills for the final two points of the game. 
Once again the Lady Titan block­ing dominated. In game three the Belles were unable to get any momemtum going. Marion was led by 5'10" hitter Kim Ruster, who was deadly up at the net. Her spikes were hard hit and strategically placed. In­effective passes from the Saint Mary's back court also made it diffi­cult for setter sophomore Mary Dilenschneider and Williard to set up the plays. Marion built up an in­surmountable lead before taking the game 15-1. 
In the fourth game the Belles would evened the score but not without fighting for every point and an eventual dramatic finish. Saint Mary's started off by taking a com­manding 7-1 lead on some nifty set­spike combinations by Williard and Boutton. 
The Belles kept plugging away and built up a 13-4 lead. When it looked as ifthe Belles would wrap it up, the Lady Titans posted ten un­answered points to pull ahead 14­
13. Boutton then blocked for a Saint Mary's sideout and on the next play stopped a Ruster spike to shift the tide back on the host side. 
At 14-14 Boutton slammed down a kill, and Dilenschneider handed Marion an unreturnable serve for points I 5 and 16. 
The title game of the match proved to be just as exciting. But with the Belles sitting on match point at 14-10, they committed some unforced errors and were unable to hang on, surrendering to a disappointing 18-16 defeat. 

TO SOUTH BEND AND MISHAWAKA 
STATE UNE RD. 

232·2499~~ 
4:00 pm·12M, Sun.wThurs. 
4:00pm-2:00am, Fri. ~Sat. JACKSON RD. 

"And delivery is FREE!" 
Get the great taste of Pizza Hut· pizza 
delivered right to your door! Call 
the number sh<J.Nn above for Pizza Hut· Special 
Delivery to your area. 
FRESH! HOT! Fi4ST! 
Umited Delivery areas. 

The Observer/Vic Guarino 
Ann Boutton, senior co-captain of tbe Saint Mary's volleyball team, bits a powerspike. Tbe Belles travel to Franklin, Ind., today for tbefirst round ofthe NAJA tournament. Story at left. 
• 
Barclay's Meat and Produce and Mr. D's Canning Factory 
•
• celebrate with ...
•
• SWEENEY TODD 
with your ticket stub you may get ...
• 
BARCLAY's: FREE Salad Bar with dinner PLUS 10% OFF any entree Mr. D's: Before play· 75' Drafts and Drinks 
After play. $1 Bloody Mary's and Drinks 75• Drafts 
.November 1, 2, 3 and 4 • 8 p.m. O'Laugblin:
• 

BILLY S(S)UIEt:< 
with special guest 
RATT 
Tuesday, November 6 7:30p.m. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All SEATS RESERVED S12'" and Sll'" TICKETS A\/AilA8lE AT THE A C C BOX OFFICE. SEARS. ROBERTSONS. ElKHART TRUTH. J R 'S MUSIC SHOP. ST JOSEPH'S BANK (MAIN OFFICE). WORLD IUCOIID (GOSHEN) MUSIC MAGIC !BENTON HARBOR). AND KARMA IUCOIIDS (FT WAYNEI 

The Observer Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 18 
Suglich, injured early, adjusts well to collegiate volleyball 

By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame volleyball and the Lambert Era. 
Aprogram on the rise, building for the future. Expectations of bigger and better things loom further down the road and it may only be a matter oftime. 
Recruiting is the key. And Coach ~t Lambert already has one class of recruits tucked away under his bell, his stepping stones for the seasons to come. One such scholarship player is freshman setter Jill Suglich, from 
~. \ 
the south side ofChicago. 
With the end of the volleyball season near, Suglich has worked her way into a shared starting role at the setter position with junior Mary Mclaughlin. "It's great to be playing," she said. "I was looking to play as a freshman. Coach Lambert
' . I ~ .. said that the team was in a building 
1,' year so playing time was a good pos­
,\. 
! \ sibility." 
;l 
'\! But Suglich has struggled along 
the way. "She had a slow start, as yotJ 
expect any freshman to have," said 
Lambert. The college game proved 
to be a learning experience, a big 
switch from high school. "On the 
college level it's more of a mental 
game," . said Suglich. "There was 
more to learn than I thought. More 
strategy. And it's more competitive." 
As if learning a new system was not enough, misfortune struck Suglich in early August when she suf­fered Achilles tendonitis, a nagging injury that bothered her. for a month. The injury restricted her playing time, but Suglich bounced back, and since that time the nifty 5'8" playmaker has done well. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will be looking forward to her con­tinued fine play as it travels to the Pittsburgh Volleyball Tournament this weekend to go head-to-head with some of the best teams in the country. South Carolina and Penn State join the Irish and Pitt at the two-day event. 
A top volleyball talent from Lourdes High School in Chicago, 
,\ 
'·) Stingy Gallagher stops 
-~ ; 
offenses cold at goal
l
,, . ' 
By KEVIN HERBERT 

Sports Writer 
Patti Gallagher, the junior goal­tending sensation for Notre Dame's field hockey team, has closed the door on opposing offenses during the last 10 games, with the Irish pos­ting a record of 9-1 from those con­tests. 
On the fourth day of practice, Gallagher had the misfortune ofpul­ling a quadricep muscle in her leg, which sidelined her for the duration of the pre-season. She was fortunate enough, however, to be healthy by the time of the first game, but obvi­ously not as sharp as she could have I•,. been had she been able to practice. 
Gallagher allowed 10 goals in the first eight games as the Irish got off to a slow 4-3-1 start. 
Gallagher's confidenced in­creased, and she said, "The Western Illinois game was the turning point ofmy season. That was the first game I felt that I played to my full poten­tial; it gave me a lot ofconfidence." 

The victory against Southern Illi­nois put the Irish over .500 with a record of 4-3·1, and from that point on the Irish field hockey team has been rolling. 
In the I 0 games following South­ern Illinois, Notre Dame has compiled a 9-1 record, winning the last five games. 
Gallagher has allowed only three goals in these games for an in­credible goals against average of.30 
\ --more than four times less than her I GAA in the first eight outings. I Gallagher said her coach and 
\ 
teammates have contributed to her success. "Jill Undenfeld is an excel­lent coach," she said. "Not only can she teach the fundamentals to us, but she also has the ability to keep the team's intensity level and spirit at apeak. 
"Our offense and defense has also been outstanding this year. They have been able to control play thereby limiting the opposition's shots on goal. 
"That makes my job a lot easier," she said. 
Gallagher is enthusiastic about the prospects for next season. 
"We should have an awesome season next year. We have nine start­ing juniors returning from this year's team." 
Personally, Gallagher said her "main goal (next year) is to keep my GAA under 1.00 because if I can achieve this it will show that I have played good consistent hockey." 
Gallagher is from Bishop Kenrick High School in Norristown, Penn. As a freshman at Notre Dame, she was captain ofthe undefeated junior var­sity field hockey team. 
Gallagher has started the last two seasons at goalie for the varsity squad, and this year she is co­captain. 
With Gallagher starting in goal next season, the Irish are looldng forward to another banner season, perhaps doing better than this year's 13-4-1 record. 
Notre Dame's final games of the 1984 season will be played this weekend in the St. Louis Tourna­ment. Also scheduled to compete are: Southwest Missouri State, West­ern Illinois, Louisville, Dayton, SIU Carbondale and St.Louis. 
Sports staff meeting 
There will be a mandatory meeting of all mem­bers of the Obseroer sports staff on Tuesday, No­vember 6, at 6:30 p.m. in the Obseroer office. Anyone who would like to write sports for the rest of the year must attend. If, for some very good rea­son, you cannot make the meeting, contact Mike Sullivan by Monday afternoon. The coverage of winter sports will be discussed as well as improve­ments in the current coverage. 
Suglich she spent four years as a var­sity starter in her high school pro­gram. 
And her four years there were dandy indeed. Her freshman season brought her Rookie of the Year recognition. And she added to this by earning MVP honors in her final three ~easons. 
But then it was good-bye high school, hello college. 
Now out under the Dome, Suglich has adjusted. "She is really doing well now," said Lambert. "She's blessed with tremendous athletic ability. She has a lot of desire and she's beginning to be a good setter. In fact, I think she can be a great one." 
Continued success depends on time and determination in a de­manding program. It is practice, practice, and then more practice. "It's like a full time job," Suglich said. "We practice up to four hours a day." But all the hard work has paid off and she has started to reap the fruits of her labor. She has learned a good deal about strategy, knowing what to do and when to do it. An­ticipation and reaction. Good vol­leyball intuition. 
As a setter, Suglich must run the team and put things in action. Said Kathy Morin, fellow freshman and outside hitter: "She's a smart player and a hard worker. She has the abil­

ity to run the team. She's a leader." 
Jill Suglich 

Nov2 
F 
Nov3 
HORROR MOVIES! 
Bloody Mary's 95~ 
Senior Class Get Together 
Come watch the game 
s 
Beer and Champagne 25~ for each ND Touchdown! $1.00 Seabreezes 
9-Close A TASTE OF THE WORLD 
Music and ethnic food 
OPEN TO ALL 
The rip-roa.ri11g comed)l show that "~ill knock you ()tit of)'Our seat! 
· · ·SecondCity' is brilliant.·· 
-Tlr\E XAGAZINE 
··Subtly & Superbly funny!·· 
-NEW' YOQK POST 

COMING TO NOTRE DAME-Nov. 10, 8 p.m., Washington Hall TICKETS available at SAB Record Store· $5.00 
.............................................. 


Friday, November 2, 1984 -page. 19 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
P/CiL, IT II/A51<EAUY 7HE 
P/i!E$/PENTS!PEA. HE'S VERY MIJCJI IN CtJir!T<tX OF TJI/5 WJ'JI?fHIJI. AJMN15TP.A710N, 
ANIJI RESPecTANt:J 
AIJMI/?E HIM FOR IT/ 


Bloom County 
10PAY'~ CB~ ~UC170N 
frJU. SIKM5 1HIIT TIE AMeRfCAN .w:A~ 1'f11ifY CANPII'I1TE~ ARE f?rJNN/NfJll£AP lAST AllrON& 8l.ACI<S. 




Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Campus 
Friday, Nov. 2 
•12: 
15 -1 p.m. -Noontalk, "Donatell & Vir­tuosity," Prof. Bonnie Apgar Bennett, University of Rochester, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Dept. of Art, Art History & Design. •12: 15-1p.m. -Faculty 4 S1aft'Forum, "Catholic Social Teachings & Political Values of American Catholics: An Interpretation and Some Evidence," Prof. David Legee, Center for Social Concerns, Brown Bag or Soup and Bread, $1. 

•1 
:30 -3 p.m. · Colloquium, "The Catholic Tubin· gen School · German Philosophy and Theology in the 19th Century," 210·214 ofthe CCE, Sponsored by Theology Dept. 

•
3:30 p.m. · Philosophy Lecture, "Internal & Ex· ternal," Prof. John McDowell, Library Faculty Lounge. 

•4 
p.m. -Tertulla, Chatauqua Ballroom, Sponsored by Spanish Club. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.· FUm, "The Exorcist," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi· ties Board, $1.50. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND vs. Penn State, ACC Ice 


Arena. 
•8
p.m. -Bob BarkerFunand Games Show, ACC , $9 adults, 54.50 for youth ( 12 and under). 

•8 
p.m. -12 a.m.. Haunted House, Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Carroll Hall, S. 50. 

•8 
& 10 p.m. & 12 a.m. · FUm, "The Gauntlet," Starring Clint Eastwood, K of C Hall, Sponsored by K of C, $1, members free. 

Samrday, Nov. 3 

•12:20 
p.m. EST · Football, ND vs. Navy at East Rutherford. 

•8 
& 10 p.m. & 12 a.m. · FUm, "The Gauntlet," Starring Clint Eastwood, K of C Hall, Sponsored by K ofC, Sl, members free. 

•8: 
15 p.m. · Concert, Notre Dame Chorale, Wash· ington Hall. 

•10 
p.m. · 2 a.m. ·A Taste of the World, Senior Bar, Sponsored by Student Government, $1. 


Sunday, Nov. 4 
•1 1 a.m. · Spanish Mass, Farley Hall Chapel, Fa­
,
ther Ernest Bartell. 
•4 
p.m. · University Artist Series Concert, Blair String Quartet with ND Faculty Laura Klugherz and Karen Baranskas, Annenberg Aduitorium. 

• 
7 p.m. · Black Smdies Colloquium, "Black Americans Abroad," Prof. Carol Ann Carter (SMC) and Joseph Scott ( ND), Room 2AA LaFortune. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -FUm, "Shampoo," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by India Association. 




39 Like a jungle income
The Daily Cross-word 
beast 49 Joshua or Ella 40 Out-and-out 51 Lily of Utah 41 Hollow stems 53 Skirt type 44 Danish 55-GrandeACROSS 29 Turned color 56 Beginnings 10 Makmg zzzs astronomer 57 Agt.
1 Persona non -from age 58 Cheap cigar 11 Math term 6 Leaves port 31 Group of geese 59 Occupant 13 Driveway stuff 11 Pasture plant 33 Periods of 60 Faint 14 Give back a loan Thursday's Solution 
time 61 Backbone 16 Use a razor 12 Suffering 34 Discomfort 19 Scored a 14 Yelling rahs 35 Mend DOWN hole in one 15 Quivering 38 Having a porous 1 -stop {speech 22 To a point 
motions texture sound) ahead 23 Gives pleasure
17 -Park, Colo. 42 Timetable abbr. 2 Surf noises 18 Paddle 43 Sticks 3 Rara-26 Andrea­20 Religious 45 Before 4 Decimal system 27 Wading birds 
30 Pasture
writings 46 Faultless unit 32 Afr. antelope21 Excavations 48 Indian garments 5 Fleets of 
22 Acting award 49 Traditional merchant ships 34 Yellowish·green gems
24 Hindu god belief 
6 Petty ruler 35 Turn back
25 Literary 50 Barbara and miscellany Anthony 7 Ventilate 26 River to the 52 Show approval 8 "-a song go 36 Pieces of Black Sea 53 Simple out... " music 28 Elko's state: organism 9 Big cars tor 37 Father and 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
abbr. 54 Banks at times short mother 
All Rights Reserved 


Vending machines of the Serengeti 
38 Food fish 47 Furnish an 
: SAB MOVIES COMMISSION PRESENTS 0 
I WILLIAM PETER BLATTY'S 
•
• THE EXORCIST
• 
~botWILLIAM F~EDKIN
• 
Nov0 2 &3 in Engineering Auditroium
• 7:00, 9:15, 11 :30 $1.50 
--------------------------------------------------------------~~---------------------­
'. J 
l' 
'\ ' \ 
. ­
.'
:' 
( 

i­
~ ~ 
' ~ • 
• 
•
l I 
~\ 
l 
l\\ 
~ .. 
~ ~ 
~ 
• ~ . 
' 
~ 
.. .\\ 

' 
•': 
-' \ 
! . ....-,
'­
~ .~ 
' ' 
\ l 
') 

S~orts 
Zahm Hall earns spot 
with five other teams 
in Sunday's playoffs 
By BRIAN McCARlHY 
Sports Writer 
Zahm Hall, who has not made the interhall football playoffs since 1970, fulfilled coach John Looney's preseason predictions beating Holy Cross, 21-0, two weeks ago to ensure itself a spot in post-season play. 
Seeded fourth, Zahm faces fifth­seeded Howard Sunday at 1 p.m. on Stepan field. The winner takes on first-seed and unbeaten Sorin in the second round next Sunday. (The top two seeds do not have to play in the opening round.) 
The second game Sunday features what could be an emotional rematch between third-seeded Morrissey and sixth-seeded Dillon at 2 p.m. Dil­lon handed Morrissey its only loss of the year, a 16-0 defeat in the second week of the season. The survivor takes on second-seeded Stanford the following Sunday. 
Quarterback Mark Palaski scored one touchdown and passed to Phil Kelleher to lead Zahm two weeks ago against Holy Cross. Steve Dombrowski scored the third touchdown as Zahm, the only team whose playoff hopes were in doubt heading into the final week's games, finished the regular season with a 3­1 record. The team grabbed the Leahy division wildcard berth. 
In other games during the week before break, Grace's Jim Book booted a 35-yard field goal with six seconds to play to beat Dillon, 5-3. Grace winds up 2-3, and Dillon enters the playoffs with a 3-2 record as the wildcard team from the Par­seghian division. 
Sorin downed Howard, 8-0, to end the regular season unbeaten, untied and unscored upon at 4-0 and win the Rockne division. Howard finishes 2-l-l to earn the Rockne division wildcard berth for the playoffs. 
Pairings on page 15 
Morrissey upended Ott-Campus, 10-0, to top the Parseghian division. Flanner pounded Keenan, 28-0, to finish 3-2 while Keenan dropped to 1-3-1. Carroll and St. Ed's appropri­ately battled to a scoreless tie as they both end up l-2-1 on the year. 
Alumni edged Cavanaugh, 7-0, to wind up with a 2-1-1 slate, while Cavanaugh finishes without a win in four games. 
In seeding the teams in the playoffs, teams were assigned two points for a win, one point for a tie and zero points for a loss. Each squad's winning percentage was de­termined by dividing its total points earned by its total possible points. 
The first-place teams from each of the three divisions were seeded first through third according to their winning percentages. The three wildcard teams were seeded fourth through sixth in the same manner. 
SMC volleyball team plays in NAIA tonight 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports W'riter 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team, coming off a close loss to Marion College last Monday, takes on the Lady Titan..'l again tonight in the opening round of the NAIA tourna­ment. 
"We are looking forward to it. The girls really want to win that match," said second-year coach Brian Goralski. 
The Belles played uninspired vol­leyball Monday, losing a five-game, two-hour and 40-minute match 3­15, 15-10, 1-15, 16-14 and 18-16. 
Goralski said because of Fall break, it was 11 days since the team had played together, and he does not think it played up to full potential. 
That's why Goralski stresses tonight's game, to be played at Franklin College in Franklin, Ind., just south ofIndianapolis. The game is at 8 p.m. 
In conference play Saint Mary's finishes with a 6-2 record and stands as the sixth-rated team out of 20 in the NAIA. The Belles overall regular season record is now 16-6. 
The eight participating teams are seeded in two brackets. The winner ofthe Saint Mary's-Marion battle will advance to the semi-final round Sat­urday morning at 1 1 to take on the victor of the Goshen-Saint Francis match. The winner will meet the survivor ofthe second bracket in the championship match to be played later in the day. 
In preparation, Goralski said the team has been practicing extra hard. "We're working a lot on blocking 
see NAIA9 page 17 

Eric Evans dribbles the ball upfteld for the Notre Dame soccer team. The Irish ended their season with a 6-4 win yesterday. Story at right. 
Friday, November 2, 1984 -page 20 

Left Wing Dave Waldbillig skated past an op­again a varsity sport, opens the 1984-85 season ponent's goalie last season. The hockey team, once tonightat 7.30. Story below. 
Hockey team starts new season sporting renewed varsity status 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
After a one-year absence, var­sity hockey will again make its debut at Notre Dame. 
"I'm very excited about the start of the new season," said 17­year Head Coach Charles "Lefty" Smith. "Going back to varsity makes it even more special." 
For 1 S years hockey had operated as a varsity sport, but last year it was demoted to club status. A Division I independent, Penn State will provide the Irish leers with their first opposition of 1984-85 as the Nittany Lions invade the ACC today and tomor­row for 7:30p.m. contests. 
"We're pretty pumped up to play," said junior co-captain Bob Thebeau. "We've been working hard so long in practice. Now we want to go against someone besides ourselves so that we can reilly see what we can do. This first series of the season is a pretty important one for us." 
Notre Dame returns 14 starters from last year's squad, which compiled an impressive 23-5-1 mark while competing in the Central States Collegiate Hockey League and against various Division II varsity oppo­nents. Six freshmen also have worked their way into the start­ing line-up and are expected to step in and contribute. 
Game at 7:30 Students free with ID 
Penn State, on the other hand, finished the 1983-84 season with a 23-1 S-1 record. The highlight ofits season came in March when the Lions won the National Club Team Championship in Tucson, Ariz., by defeating the Arizona Wildcats, 7-5. 
Penn State returns to action 
with 16 members from last year's team, including three of its top four scorers. Lynn Sipe led the way last season with 33 goals and 52 assists. 
When the Irish and Lions met last February in Johnstown, Penn., the two teams tied 4-4 the first night, but Notre Dame came away with a 6· I victory in the se­ries finale. 
"It was a very good series last season, but poor officiating and poor conditions at the arena took a lot away from it," said Smith. "Conditions will be different here, so we are expecting some good games this weekend." 
Since tryouts began the first week of October, Smith has got­ten four solid weeks of intense, hard work from his crew in prep­aration for the season opener. 
In putting lines together this season, Smith has tried to set up a balanced attack that will combine both speed and finesse. 
see HOCKEY, page 16 
ND wins season's final soccer game 
ByPHRWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
Rich Herdegen, playing in his last collegiate soccer game, scored half of Notre Dame's goals as the Irish defeated Valparaiso in overtime, 6-4, yesterday. 
Herdegen scored the first two goals and the final insurance goal in overtime for the Irish. The three­goal outing was Herdegen's third in his four years at Notre Dame and his only hat trick of this season. 
The Irish ended the season with a 12-6-2 record after yesterday's game. The win was Notre Dame's 14th consecutive victory over the Crusaders, whom the Irish have out­scored, 92-10, in eight seasons. 
It was the Crusaders who got on the scoreboard first yesterday, however. They began the game with a lot of enthusiasm and were able to 
maintain possession of the ball in Notre Dame's halfofthe field for the first few minutes ofplay. 
Less than two minutes into the game, Valpo was ahead, 1-0. The goal came when Irish goalkeeper Dan Coughlin slipped while attempting to make the save. The shot was·from only 10 yards in front of the goal, where the field was particularly muddy. 
Most of the field, in fact, was ex­tremely wet, which hindered play for the entire game. Several large puddles caused the ball to stop sud­denly and unexpectedly many times, and the mud made it difficult for the players to run. 
The Valparaiso goal brought the Irish to life, and they began to domi­nate play. The offense generated several scoring opportunities, and kept the pressure on the Crusaders' goal. 
Herdegen tied the game for the Irish with the first of his three goals. The play actually began with a foul called against Notre Dame. 
The Valpo goalkeeper was trying to gain possession ofthe ball in front ofhis goal when Tom Daley kicked it out of his grasp. lbe referee called a foul on Daley and awarded the Crusaders a free kick. The keeper kicked the ball only about 2S yards, however, and it came right to the feet of Herdegen. The Irish tri­captain blasted a shot from 20 yards that whizzed past the surprised goaltender. 
Less than two minutes later, Her­degen scored his second goal to give Notre Dame a 2-1 advantage. 
The Irish then launched several shots at the Crusaders' goal, only to be turned away by excellent saves or 
see SOCCER, page 16 


Inside ... 
p.2  Ed Rollins on youth  
p.3  Campaign scoop  
p.4  The Reagans  
p.5  Mondale's stumble  
p.6  Reagan and women  
p.7  Registration  
p.8  Students speak out  

Reagan finds support on campus 
by Derek Hankerson 
UniversityofMaryland popularity into long-term Reagan and Jimmy With a healthier 
Just when he thought it Republican gains is a ques-Carter... it's not that dif-economy, young people was safe to go back on the tion best left for the future, ficult a choice to make." have more spending money, campuses... but one thing is certain: to-When questioned closely money that's purchasing 
Today's college students day's young people are look-on the subject, students power has not been gutted have taken a good look at ing back at the last four point to the economic by inflation. More parents Democratic presidential years and deciding they like recovery that has taken can spend their children to nomineee Walter Mondale, the Reagan presidency a place under a Reagan ad-college, as lowered interest and, by overwhelming ma-whole lot better than ministration. Their older rates have made loans jority, their message has easier to obtain. 
been "Sorry, Fritz". Students' support: 4 Another reason that to-According to Time tt tttt 1 day's students seem to Magazine, voters between prefer the President is more the ages of 18 and 24 prefer Reagan abstract; they talk about President Reagan by a patriotism and a renewed whopping 63 percent to 18 +1 . sense of pride in their coun­percent margin over Mon-try. "I spent over a year hear-dale. Mondale ing about the hostages and 
Reagan's popularity Iran and that stuff", says among younger voters has anything else they brothers and sisters one University of California become one of the most remember. graduated from college to student. "Now, I don't have widely discussed stories of "Coo you blame them?" find their only secure place to feel like America's being this campaign season. Is asks Liz Pickens, co-in society down at the pushed around." this support the beginning ordinator of the Youth For unemployment office, and Today's college students of a more conservative trend Reagan effort. "A college today's students see 6.5 are proud, independent, and among college students? student today has become million new jobs as a much motivated. They seem to 
Whether Reagan can politically socialized under better incentive to head out desire the same qualities in translate his personal two presidents --Ronald into the real world. their president. 

THE PROUDER-STRONGER TIMES 
Stars shine for Reagan 
by David White 
Vanderbilt University 
Erica Kane, high-priced balist, Lionel Hampton, and 
fashion model and temp­Bob Hope are also behind 
tress extraordinaire of the President. 
television's All My Children, Former professional foot­
may have never heard of ball star Rosie Grier, 
Walter Mondale and pro­mainstay of the Los Angeles 
bably thinks that a Ferraro Rams 'Fearsome Foursome' 
is some kind of expensive defensive line, has also en­
sports car. But Susan Lucci, dorsed Reagan. A long-time 
the actress who plays Erica Democrat, and rormer cam­
on the hit ABC daytime soap paign worker on behalf of 
opera, is quite a bit more both John and Robert Ken­
politically inclined in real nedy, Grier recently made 
life. the shift to Reagan and also 
Lucci, in fact, is one of addressed the convention 
countless celebrities who this past summer. 'I found 
have overstepped the tradi­myself agreeing more and 
tional boundaries of their more with the positions of 
entertainment careers to President Reagan', Grier 
take an active interest in told the delegates, 'I'm stan­
this year's presidential cam­ding behind him one hun­
paign by publicly endorsing dred percent'. 
Ronald Reagan. Television Grier was joined at the 
convention by ex-Dallas 
Cowboy quarterback Roger 
Staubach, a long-time
"I feel/ike we have a winn­Republican, as well as ing team . . . we need to several members of the put him back in there for United States Olympic four more years. "-Joe team, including gold medal swimmers Nancy
Frazier. 
Hogshead, Steve Lundquist, 
and Rowdy Gaines. Gold 
medal gymnasts Bart Con­
and movie personalities, nor and Peter Vidmar have 
singers, athletes, and other also lent their names to the 
famous entertainers, in fact, re-election effort, as has ice 
seem to be as firmly in skating champions Rosalyn 
Reagan's corner as any Sumners, Scott Hamilton, 
voting group in the country. and Dorothy Hammill. 
Actor Charlton Heston, Several athletes also join­
for example, was on hand ed Reagan-Bush sponsored 
for the Republican National campaign tours, including 
Convention this· past sum­former heavyweight cham­
mer, and Frank Sinatra has pion Joe Frazier. 'I feel like 
been stumping along the we have a winning team,' 
campaign trail on Reagan's says Frazier. 'But four years 
behalf as well. Others, such just ain't enough time. We 
as Tom Selleck, Chad need to put him back in 
Everett, Stephanie Zim-there for four more years'. 

My father, the prez 
by Ronald Reagan, Jr. government arrived fresh out of college or I've never thought of my father as a politi­after very brief careers elsewhere, Ronald cian, perhaps because he doesn't think of Reagan spent more than 35 years in radio, himself that way. That may seem a strange film and television. So he sees himself, thing to say about a man who has been in still, as a kind of citizen politician, a and out of elected office for almost 19 classification he regards as infinitely years, but the label'politician' just doesn't preferable to professional bureaucrat. seem to fit. Whereas most people in 
Continued on page 7 
PAID FOR BY REAGAN-BUSH "84 COMMITTEE . 
• 
-----------------------------------------~---------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------­
PAGE 2 THE PROUDER STRONGER TIMES NOVEMBER, 1984 
Campaign Director Rollins: The college vote is key 

Reagan-Bush Campaign Director Ed Rollins 
Twenty years ago, when he was elected student body president at Chico State [California] University, Ed Rollins never dreamed he'd end up in ch~rge of a national political campaign. But, to­day, that's exactly where he is, manning the position of Campaign Director for the Reagan-Bush '84 Committee. 
His candidate is one of the most popular incumbents ever to seek reelection, and has maintained a wide margin in the polls since the campaign's inception. by his own admission, Rollins' philosophy had been "to stay out of the way" and allow the President to relate directly with the nation·s people. 
But Rollins has maintained tight control over the cam­paign, vanquishing the possibility of complacency so thoroughly that fourteen hour days are a matter of course for his staff. He realizes that a can­didate named Ronald Reagan is the best asset the Republican party could hope to have, and is attempting to parlay Reagan's popularity into a sanguine future for the GOP... 
Most Republican strategists agree that the party is broaden­ing its base, most significantly among young people, where the President's support is strongest of any age group. Rencently, Rollins took time todiscuss the importance of the college-age vote and its implications. 
0: How important is the youth vote to the President's reelection? 
Rollins: I think the most im­portant factor that is out there today is among young voters. There's a tremendous number of young voters, first time voters, second time voters, who are identifying with this president, and they in turn are going to vote Republican, maybe for the first time. 
Historically, young voters either have not voted or have been more liberal and have voted Democratic in greater numbers than they have Republican. These young voters want a strong economy, want less govern­ment interference in their life and basical1y stand for the same kind of patriotic values the President does. 
0: Why is the President so popular among young peo­ple? 
R: I think the most impor­tant thing people a little older have to remember is that many of these young people have never seen a successful president. There have been four failed presidencies in a row, the definition of failure being that the American public has chosen not to re­elect them or something catastrophic has happened in their term. This is the presidency that has worked. 
If Ronald Reagan wants to walk away from the Oval Of­fice next January 20th, if he chose not to seek re-election, there is no question this term would go down and this presidency as one of the great ones in history. He turn­ed the economy around, he built America's defense strengths, he made America proud again. I think compar­ing him with Jimmy Carter or to one of the other presidents that proceeded Carter, Ronald Reagan is head and shoulders above those peo­ple. And I think that, for young people, this is the president they will measure other presidents by. 
0: Will college students who are supporting the Presi­dent vote for other Republicans? 
R: If they vote for this presi­dent, they may very well vote f-or a Republican con­gressman. I think there is just a great opportunity with the baby boomers who are going to be the dominant political force for the rest of their lifetime, to vote independent or Republican and move for Democrats the first cou­ple of times they have voted. Then, as they get a little older, start making some money, start having a family, start philosophically changing a little, then they may in mid-40's change and vote for Republicans. 
But I think the fact that they are willing to vote for Republicans the first time out of the box and the second time is very encouraging, because I think there is a tendency there, a trend there that they may vote for other Republicans, and stay Republican. 
0: It has been said that young people support Ronald Reagan on the basis of style, not substance. Is this true? 
R: I think all the rhetoric about Ronald Reagan being 
". . . many of these young peoplf.! have never seen a successful presi­dent... this is the presidency that 
has worked." 
away from the old line liberal policies ~of the Democratic party. 
Q: Will this trend lead to the Republicans becoming the majority party? 
R: I think the encouraging thing is that many of the young voters who vote Republican this time may not register as Republicans. They may register as In­dependents, but I think that any good Republican can­didate will always have the opportunity to go get them again. 
What traditionally has hap­per'led is younger voters have thought of themselves as Democrats and have voted 
Reagan vs Mondale 
Who will decide our future? 
ByFrankGregorsky 
If your question is, "Who understands the future?," then Walter Mondale can't hold a laser beam to Ronald Reagan. 
Sen. Gary Hart was accurate last winter in saying his jousting match with MondaJe was "acontest between this party's future and its past.'' In their party, the past and Walter Mondale won, and the Democrats now face a future bleak for the kind of welfare-state worldvlew the Mondale coalition possesses. let'slook at taxes, small business, unions, space and foreign policy. 
1)Seven years ago, Ronald Reagan grasped the shift from Keynesian tax theories toJack Kemp-style incentlvism, mean­ing that tax policy must stimulateeconomic growth before it redistributes income. yet this Insight has passed Walter Moo­dale's team by. 
The Mondale tax plan is straight out of the 1930s: by hiking penaltieson those whosave, inYeSt and innovate, it will preempt more wealth than It raises for government. When shown real figures on how the Reagan-Kemp tax cuts increased revenues from the rich during 1982-83with lower rates, Mondale liberals say, "Maybe so, but we want the symbolismofa morestiffly graduated tax rate scale." 
2) A counterproductive Mondale worldview also gives short shrift to small business, whose annual start-ups are doubletheir 19741evel and six times t~r 1950 numbers. Outof fNefY six new enterprises in 1983, five Were started by women. Americans in the 1980s don't just want toget a "bigger piece ofthe pie," they want to bake their own pies. 
But the Mondale tax scheme is a daggeraimed at the heart of small business job creation. Its dilution of Indexation and upper-bracket surcharge will hurt unincorporated enterprises, whose proprietors pay taxes on the personal rate scale. 
3)The flip-side of that is organized labor, with itsartificially-high wages and anti-technology biases. Union membership has 
fatten from 27.3% of it, is willing to stick with Ronald Reagan. 
yet the union leaders are inhock to the Democrats, and Mon­
date has happily stuck himself with their job-destroying 
"domestic content" legislation and steel import quotas. 
The Mondale agenda thus rewards big labor and hurts small 
business, and destroys or preempts jobs in the process. 
4) And what of space? If any one word Is the future, It's "space." Mondale is anti-space. He tried tokill the Space Shut· tie during 197().72, and hasnoroom for space in his 1984 agen­daThe leadership on space commercialization and space ex· ploratlon is all coming from President Reagan. 
5) Finally, there's foreign policy. Both the Mondale and Hart wings of the Democratic Party wallow in Vietnam-era quagmires.They want to"blameAmerica first." Everytime the Sandlnistas, Colonel Qaddafi or Lebanese terrorists do something bad, It'ssomehowthe President's fault. Mondale's partywould hamper thegrowth of U.S. power and put its faith in U.N. resolutions and unverifiable arm pacts. 
Under Reagan, Amerlca has put Vietnam behind ItThere are 
"lessons" to be learned from Iran, Afghanistan, and Grenada, 
but too many Democrats stopped learning that day in April ·1975 when Saigon fell to the Communists. 
Reagan understands both world ·realities and the re­
juvenatorypowerofAmerican capitalism; he knows the secrets 
ofU.S. success in the 19tlls and 1990s.On his good days, Walter 
Mondale can peep through to the 1970s. The res~ ofthe time, 
he's stuck somewhere in the 1930s. 
(Frank Gregorsky, 29, Is the author of "What's The Matter With Democratic Foreign Polley?," published by the American Conservative Union, and edits the weekly BULLETt N of the 
House Republican Study Committee. 
-Ed Rollins 
an image candidate is just a bunch of bunk. Ronald Reagan has turned the direc ... tion of this country around, he has reset the national agen­da. The Democrats themselves are now talking about deficits and balanced budgets which before was heresy. Mondale is now talk­ing about peace through strength in his commercials. That was the Reagan slogan four years ago and the Republican slogan for many years that he (Mondale) belit­tled several months ago. 
0: Are young people turn­ing conservative on other issues as well? 
R: I think realistically the young people today are going to be a different kind of voter, in the sense that they may not agree in all the social pro­grams of the President. My estimation is that the young voter are going to become more and more conservative on fiscal policy and foreign policy, and probably a little more libertarian on the social issues. 
Many of them have grown up in a more libertarian en­vironment, where its kind of where you do your thing, I do my thing. So I think some on some of the harder, more con­servative social issues they may not totally agree. But they are not saying that if you disagree with me on one issue. I can't vote for you. I think they're open-minded and I think they are going to vote for the individual. 
0: Why did this trend sur­prise all the so-called ex­perts? 
R: There's a whole emerg­ing voter group out there that very few political scientists, behaviorists, or political col­umnists really haven't handl­ed. The young voters are so­meone who really have created a new political en­vironment out there. As a Republican, I think it is very encouraging. 

THE PROUDER STRONGER TIMES NOVEMBER, 1984 PAGE3 
PauI Laxalt, the first .friend 
by Joe Gonyea 
University of it is a word Laxalt has less than half of the eligible, 
Santa Clara become increasingly, and college-age voters actually 
Paul Laxalt is a gracious unhappily, famifiar with. cast ballots in 1980. 'I think host. Any stray stereotypes 'I've seen race after race they will vote in greater of how politicians are sup­where margins larger than numbers this time around. posed to behave are quickly this have disappeared', said I'd like to see young people dispelled upon entering the Laxalt, referring to the fif­dispel the conventional Nevada senator's inner of­teen to twenty-five point ad­wisdom that they talk, but fice. vantage Reagan showed at don't do anything ... that . 
There is no arrogant air of the time this interview took they don't vote. importance surrounding the place. 'This election isn't go­Talk then turned to the man, as you would expect ing to be decided in future, and whether the con­from one of the most in­September. There's a long servative trend appearing fluential men in the natior.. time to go until election day, on college campuses would Nor does he attack his and over-confidence is the benefit the Republican party guests with the false sense worst thing that can happen in the long run. Although of fellowship, the backslaps to any campaign.'. dismissing the idea of per­and the hearty handshakes The conversation soon manent realignment, Laxalt that many old pols throw on steered back to sa fer did stress the importance of at the first scent of publici­ground, luckily, and the the continuation of such a ty. senator relaxed. 'People trend. 
No, despite having spent tend to like Ronald Reagan, 'If these young people a majority of the last twenty both as a person and what vote Republican their first years firmly rooted in the he stands for ...the support time that they're able, a lot public eye, Laxalt has re­we're seeing, especially of them will keep voting 
mained remarkably unaf­among young people is very Republican. That's critical fected and soft-spoken. encouraging', he said. 'Our to the future of the But as polite and hospitable support among first and Republican Party and the as Laxalt is, a single word second-time voters in this future of the conservative has the capacity to erase election is extremely impor­cause,' he said. 'It's an in­th~ smile from his face and tant.' vestment in the future, and sharpen the soft tongue. Laxalt agreed, however, it's reassuring to see so The word is 'landslide,' and that somehow inspiring many young people coming 
by Tom Behney learned of a job opportunity as the chairman of the youth to vote in greater back to conservative values Georgetown University with the campaign. She inter­Reagan-Bush '84 campaign, numbers was a concern, as the way they are'. 
Campaigns are often cast viewed ·for and got the posi­
as places where young tion she now holds. 
idealists come to work for a Gaylynn Goble, now a staff 
'Road Warriors' advance the cause 
cause in which they believe assistant with the Voter and gain valuable exposure Groups division, started out by Kevin Peartree tothe inner workings of a as a volunteer at the Notre Dame University people, for as much media ex­'You develop a theme and 
political operation. The Republican Conv~ntion in For Ronald Reagan the posure, as possible. expand on it,' says Mermoud. Reagan-Bush reelection com­Dallas. She handled the of­Labor Day campaign kickoff 'We coordinate the finish­the goal is to create a 'one on mittee is no exception to that fice for several campaign of­brought sunshine, brass ed product,' says Frank Mer­one play' between the na­maxim. In fact, the campaign ficials, coordinating bands and a cheering crowd moud, Director of the Ad­tional candidate and the local is staffed by youth at all volunteers and handling the of 50.000 supporters to a rally vance Office for Reagan­voter. levels. The average age of phones in that office. She in California's Silicon Valley. Bush '84. 'We execute the The advance team works staff members is surprisingly was encouraged to come to Walter Mondale's and whole trip.' Mermoud's team closely with party officials on 
under 30. Even the director of Washington because of her Geraldine Ferraro's cam­oversees the activities of all the local level. Going into an the campaign, Ed Rollins, is performance in Dallas. paign kickoff was greeted by the campaign's principal area anywhere from several only 41 years old. For these people and cloudy skies and sparse spokesmen. Since the Presi­days to a full week preceding 
Some people think it's who others, the Reagan-Bush crowds as the two can­dent and Vice-President the event, Mermoud's staff 
you know, not what you know, Reelection Committee is didates paraded down George Bush cannot be looks • to local leaders for 
that determines who gets their first extensive political Manhattan's Fifth Avenue. So everywhere, surrogates are specific guidance, 'to sug­
paying jobs on a campaign. experience. They are young, poor was the turnout, even used in their place. For the gest resources that may be 
Not true. Some interviewed but contrary to popular ex­New York's Democratic Reagan campaign this able to impact on the event-a 
for positions that were open pectations, they are not mayor Ed Koch was reported means Cabinet secretaries, band that has won awards, ·during the expansion of the envelope-stutters and fur­to be 'at the beach.' congressmen, senators-even local college cheerleaders.' 
campaign staff. Others niture movers. Their respon­The weatherman aside, 'super surrogates' such as 'It depends on what image 
started as campaign sibilities are critical to the one of the most important former President Gerald Ford we want to hit on that week,' 
volunteers or interns and operation of the campaign. factors determining the suc­and Henry Kissinger. adds Mermoud. 'If we want to 
worked their way on to the Along with the excitement cess of such campaign The advance team's job is talk about domestic issues or 
staff. But the bottom line in of the campaign is the com­events is the work done by to recognize the interests and budget cuts, we might go to a 
hiring is merit. A campaign mittment to the President. each candidate's advance concerns of voters in dif­small town and do a factory 
simply cannot afford to carry According to Jennings, 'It's team. ferent cities and regions walk-through.' 
dead weight. easy to work here because Today's advance person is around the country, and to One wall of the advance 
For example, when Greg the President is such a strong much more than a political match these voters with a team's Wasrington office is Wiengand came to visit his leader and his programs are roadie, setting up convention theme and a suitable cam­covered by newspaper ar­mother in Washington important for the nation.' halls, platforms and paign spokesman. The con­ticles from all over the several months ago, the idea Says Wiegand, 'If someone microphones. The advance cerns of voters in the high­country-articles about Presi­of volunteering for the cam­had told me I'd be making a team is the public relations tech Silicon Valley, for exam­dent Reagan or George Bush paign seemed only like an in­real contribution to reelecting arm of the campaign. Its ob­ple, may not be the same as and their visit to Hoboken, or teresting way to spend his Ronald Reagan, I wouldn't jective is to present the can­those of voters in the Kansas Austin or Witchita Falls. spare time. But Greg soon ap­have believed it ... but here I didate or his spokesman in as farmlands or those in Penn­These are the fruits of the ad­plied for intern status, and a am, doing all this.' favorable a light, to as many sylvania steel towns. vance team's labor. 'It's what 
paign on her internship and At the Oval Office because you create it.' 

PAGE4 THE PROUDER STRONGER TIMES NOVEMBER, 1984 
Ronald Reagan: Born in the USA 
by Daniel Schnur 
Carleton College 
'The issue will be Ronald Reagan', says one state cam­paign official. 'He's the col­ossus. ReaQan is the can­didate, Reagan is the plat­form, and Reagan is the only issue to the average voter'. 
Every electiofl is, to a cer­tain extent, is a referendum on the incumbent. But, more than any president seeking re-election since Franklin D. Roosevelt, Ronald Reagan is dominating the national agenda. 
His control, his effect on the mood of the electorate is almost total. And the mood is so positive that even Walter Mondale's own adv1sors are who engineered this nation's economic recovery. Worst of all, though, he must somehow convince the voters of this country that they should prefer him over the man who has somehow rekindled the patriotic spirit in their souls. And all the doom and gloom on God's earth won't convince people that feeling pride in their country is a bad way to live. 
Witness last summer's Olympic Games. Four years ago, when the United States hockey team captured a gold medal at the 1980 Olympics, observers philosophized that the resulting outbreak of 
There is an enthusiasm ... that has been absent since the days of Kennedy and Roosevelt 
admitting that their only chance lies with the possibili­ty of some huge Reagan gaffe, that would turn what is now a popular mandate bordering on landslide into a reasonable fascimile of a two-man race. 
The task facing Mondale is a formidable one. Not only must he face a popular in­cumbent, but the president patriotism was the cry of a country desperately sear­ching for something, anything to cheer. 
The national celebration this summer, on the other hand, was of a decidedly dif­ferent nature. This time, the cheers were not a release of pent-up frustration and im­potence, but the congratula­tions and celebrations of a confident people who knew that these gold metals were not a fluke, but a symbol of a renewed American deter­mination and self-respect. 
Cynics accused Reagan of capitalizing on the Olympic spirit, as if he deserves no credit for the rebirth of na­tional pride that happened to occur during the four years of his presidency. 
But the people know the truth. At every stop he makes, in every town he visits, there is an enthusiasm, an adula­tion for the man that has been absent for a sitting president since the days -of Kennedy and Roosevelt. 
Four years ago, people 
were  saying  that  the  
presidency  was  too  big for  
one man.  

The re-election of an in­cumbent president, which had once been almost a foregone conclusion, had been upset in two successive elections. The American peo­ple, who had seen their trust in the incumbencies of Lyn­don Johnson and Richard Nixon rewarded with Vietnam and Watergate, were disillu­sioned, and turned out both Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter in short order. 
That disillusionment is gone. There is no talk now that the presidency is too large a duty for one man. One 
Nancy expands traditional role 

The First Lady by Theresa Trainor 
St. Bonaventure Univ. 
"Don't walk ahead of me, for I may not follow. Don't walk behind me, for I may not lead. Just walk beside me and be my friend." 
In order to understand "Nancy with 'the Laughing Face"' you must also realize her strength of character. She has involved herself exten­sively in foster care and anti­drug programs. She is therefore far more than a smiling figurehead and White House hostess. She has played a major role in the development of Ronald Reagan into the man he is to­day ... the fortieth president of the United States. 
The President sees Nancy clearly as his mainstay. There's nothing he does not tell her. "As far back as I can remember in the marriage, anything that happens ... the first thought in my mind-the first image in my mind-is that 'I'm going to tell her about it"'. 
As first lady, Nancy effec­tively balances the dual role as wife and White House hostess. "When we first mov­ed into the White House, my instinct was to make it home for my husband. Until that was accomplished, I didn't feel ready for other things." 
"I had no idea ...that being first lady was a full time job. The demands on my time are enormous, but so are the rewards. The opportunity to get things accomplished from this position is very gratifying." 
It has been a time when she has come to better understand the problems of the country. But even prior to this time, when Reagan was Governor of California, Nan­cy wrote a syndicated column during the Vietnam war and donated her salary to the Na­~ional League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Action in Southeast Asia. 
Mrs. Reagan also became the moving force behind the highly acclaimed Foster Grandparent Program, because she realized that the "elderly have so much to give and so do these handicapped children. The Foster Grand­parent Program just gives them a way to make the ahppy exchange." She also continues to work to bring the project to a national level and to promote private funding in local communities. 
Another interest area of Mrs. Reagan's is the fight against drug abuse. Among other projects she has nar­ratec.i a two-hour documen­tary on the subject for public television. She remarks, "I have seen the ravages of drug abuse and the sadness of children who think there's no point in living, who don't know there's a whole rich and wonderful world out there­kids who have in a way given up on the world before they even got to know it." 
And she hopes she and Ron can have an influence on this next generation. "I think he's (Reagan) the best man for the job and he will have a chance to continue what he started. I don't think we've had a continuity really since Eisenhower. Just as people get use to somebody, they're gone. It makes it difficult." 
She applies this ·th~ory to her own life, "you have to keep pushing it. You can't let it die. I feel, and I hope I'm right,... You like to think you contributed something." 

man has mobilized the American people to revive the sagging economy. One man has led the movement that has restored America's place in the world. 
And that man is being rewarded for his feats by a grateful nation. They know that the same man who brought America back will take it even further, and if the referendum on the Gipper would be put to a voice vote, the ayes would surely wake up the echoes. 

The Reagan Record 
Inflation: 
The President's anti-inflationary policies have reduced the rate of inflation to less than four per· cent for two consecutive years-a truly spectacular achievement. 
Job Creation: 
The President's economic recovery has created 6.5 mHiion new jobs. More Americans are working to· day than ever before. 
Productivity: 
Worker productivity under President Reagan rose over three percent in 1983 ·the largest gain in eight:.. years. As a result, real wages have risen more than three percent during the past two years. 
Defense and Arms Control: The Reagan Administration is rebuilding our defenses to keep America safe, while at the same ·. time pursuing the most ambitious arms reduction policy-the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks. 
Women's Advancements: 
During his first two years in office, President 
Reagan appointed more than 1400 women to im· 
portant government positions, including Sandra 
Day O'Connor: to the Supreme Court, Elizabeth' 
Dole as Secretary of Transportation, Margaret 
Heckler as Secretary of Health and Human Ser­
vices, and Jeane Kirkpatrick as US Ambassador to 
the United Nations. Under President Reagan, the· 
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
recovered more back pay awards for job 
discrimination against women than the previous 
Administration. 

THE PROUDER STRONGER TIMES NOVEMBER, 1984 PAGES 
Experience serves Bush well in #2 spot 
by John Breheny 
Purdue University 
After graduating from Yale Learning the oil business in the spring of 1948, young quickly, Bush co-founded a George Bush took advantage small royalty firm, Bush­of one of the many personal Overby Development Com­friendships and connections pany. Two years later, he co­he had acquired during his founded Zapata Petroleum four years there to land his Corporation, and one year first real job. Bush had decid­later, at age 30, he became ed to learn the oil business, president ar~d co-founder of a so he set out for the desola­third firm, Zapata Offshore tion of West Texas, to a posi­Company. Much of the tion with Dresser Industries energy produced today is . . . sweeping floors. drilled for by rigs Zapata 
He started at the bottom. pioneered. After pushing a broom all In 1966, Bush won a seat in day, he would return each the House against a right­night to a mobile home on wing Democrat with 57.1 per­the edge of Odessa to his cent of. the popular vote. young wife and son. To Then, during the decade of many of his classmates, the 70's Mr. Bush gained ex­this li iestyle may have perience in various positions seemed less than idyllic. that would later prove in­
But, for Bush, it was valuable. From 1971 to 1973, 
perfect, for at the age of he served as U.S. Am­
twenty-four, Bush had bassador to the U.N., and as 
already packed more danger Chairman of the Republican 
into his life than most men do National Committee from 
in a lifetime. January 1973 to September 
Prior to his enrollment at 1974.1n October 1974, he was Yale, Bush had enlisted in the appointed as Chief of the U.S. armed service. He became Liaison Office in the Peoples the youngest commissioned Republic of China. After that, pilot, at 18, in the Navy at that he served a stint as the Direc­time. While on carrier duty in tor of the Centrallntelligency the South Pacific, he was Agency. shot down and two fellow Former critics give great crew members died; he was credit to his performance as rescued by a U.S. submarine vice president. Longtime and later awarded the Reagan associate Lyn Nof­Distinguished Flying Cross. ziger, a conservative ideologue 


Energy Independence: 
The vulnerability of the U.S. economy to the whims of OPEC is a thing of the past. Under President Reagan, U.S. oil production is up, while the price of Imported oil and the proportions of imports to total consumption is down. 
Crime: 
Under President Reagan, the crime rate dropped seven percent last year ·the biggest drop in a generation. The rate of serious crime fell by four percent In 1982, and five percent during the first six months in 1983. Reagan has proposed legislation to compensate the victims of crime. 
Ally Relations: 
American leadership at the Williamsburg Summit in the spring of 1983 marked the beginning of world economic recovery. The seven nations present agreed to a common program to combat inflation, resist protectionism, and aid developing nations. 
Waste in Government: Through the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency, the Administration saved the taxpayer $31 billion that would have been lost to fraud or waste. 
U.S. Competitiveness: 
The President, through deregulation and tax cuts, has helped to make American companies more competitive abroad. He is continuing to work towards the eradicatiQn of trade barriers between nations. 


who initially opposed Bush's 
slelction as the 1980 runhing 
mate says "George has done a helluva job ... You cannot find any instances in three and one-half years of backbiting, of second guess­ing, of that sort of thing. He has played the role of vice president as well as anybody I've ever seen.' In March 1981, for example, 
the attempted assassination 
of Reagan thrust Bush for­
ward. His calmly reassuring 
performance during that 
period may have done more 
than anything else to cement 
his reputation. Last year, he 
won rave reviews for a Euro­
pean trip designed to • 
preserve allied support for 
U.S. nuclear arms initiaves. 
Que to his strong perfor­mance as vice president, Bush is considered an early front-runner in the race for the nomination of the Republican party in 1988. But for now, Bush has chosen to focus his attention on the job at hand ... the reelection of Ronald Reagan. 
Vice-President George Bush 
Fritz's stumble for the roses 
by Daniel Schnur 
Carleton College  for  gammg  office  through  have been abandoning him  
During the final race of hi~  party  connections  was  in droves. There have even  
high  school  track  career,  upset by Gary Hart early in  been whispers that his party  
almost  forty  years  ago,  the  Democratic  primary  is  offering  him  as  a  
Walter  Mondale  stopped  race,  Mondale  was  forced  sacrificial  lamb in opposi­ 
running. With twenty yards  on the offensive, and almost  tion  to  an  overwhelmingly  
remaining  in  the  contest,  completely  destroyed  popular  incumbent,  while  
and no real chances of winn­ Hart's  candidacy.  But  he  they prime for other,  more  
ing, the high school senior  then reverted to form, and  inspiring  candidacies  four  
pulled up short and walked  Hart seized the opportunity  years from now.  
off the track, saying there  to rise from the ashes and  But everyone, especially  
was 'no point' in continuing.  contest  the  nomination  the  candidate  himself,  
There is little chance that  through the final round of  knows  that  if he  can  not  
now,  embroiled  in  a  race  primaries.  somehow mount  a miracle  
with far more at stake than a  After  securing  the  comeback this fall, he will  
blue  ribbon  or  medallion,  nomination, it took a round  never get a second chance.  
Mr. Mondale will similarly throw in the towel. But in the  of severe tongue lashings from the party elite to shake  The young Democrats, the Gary Hart devotees, see him  
years  since  he  left  his  Mondale from his doldrums  as a dinosaur, the last of the  
Elmore,  Minnesota  high  and drag him into battle with  New  Deal  Democrats  still  
school,  where  his  his  opponent,  Pre3ident  reciting from a litany of old·  
classmates prophesied he would unsuccessfully run for the United States Senate  Reagan. Even while running mate Geraldine Ferraro was fighting for her political life  fashioned remedies for modern problems. They almost wrenched the  
before attempting a singing career, his reputation has stayed with him. It is a  during the financial troubles,  midst of her disclosure Mondale was  nomination from the old-line party bosses this time around, and their lackluster  
reputation for avoiding con­troversy, for ducking the tough issues, for quitting,  blissfully fishing deep in the wilds of Minnesota, happily avoiding the controversy.  support of their party's ticket this fall indicates their confidence in finally  
and it has dogged his every  Only when faced with immi­ seizing control of the party  
step.  nent land~lide  possibilities  come 1988.  
After proving his old schoolmates wrong and gaining a Senate seat (albeit by appointment, no elec­tion], he gained a reputation amongst his fellow senators as one who would desert a  did the reluctant candidate finally force himself into the fray. So, for now at least, Men­dale the Meek has become Fightin' Fritz. With his jacket slung over his  Still, Walter Mondale con­tinues. He derides the cur­rent economic recovery as 'mortgaging the future' and proposes additional taxa­tion and government spen­ding to deal with a federal  
cause when its path of passage became difficult. Minnesota politician  shoulder, his tie wrenched askew, and as his allies had begged him, his hair finally  deficit that he fears will ruin our economy. He sees America's renewed strength  
Eugene McCarthy has quip­ped that Mondale 'has the soul of a vice-president.'  let down, Mondale is at· tempting to wage a volatile, spirited campaign in a last­ and confidence as a harb­·inger of possible war, and urges radical changes in our  
Even  Hubert  Humphrey,  ditch effort to avoid the elec­ foreign policy. His attacks  
Mondale's political mentor,  toral  embarassment  suf­ on  the  president's  social  
speculated on the absence  fered  by  his  former  agenda have left the elec­ 
of  'fire  in  his  belly'  after  employer four years ago.  torate unimpressed.  
Mondale aborted  a run  for  His  fellow  Democrats,  But this time, he can not  
the presidency in 1974.  seeking to save their seats  quit. Not even twenty yards  
But when his old formula  in  the Senate and  House,  from the finish.  


PAGE 6 THE PROUDER STRONGER TIMES NOVEMBER, 1984 
Reagan fights for equality 
-~ ----------~----~--------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~------~---. 
-

Today's students: Quieter, but still concerned 
by Eric Nelsen 
that those members of our possess is a perfect concept of they have learned how to get gain entrance into the debate 
Dartmouth College 
society between the ages of reality. To those well ac­their issue into the limelight by itself. Even in the tube rooms of 
In the spring of 1984, all 18-24 have become narrow­quainted with the Eighties using the system and by the anti-intellectual frater­eight candidates seeking minded and self-centered, Generation, its members come avoiding the use of violence and nities, brothers watched the the Democratic presidental stereotyping students into the across as interested, informed, destruction. proceedings with fascination. nomination arrived in Me Generation. These critics and concerned about the issues For example, at the afore­After the debate, four recep­Hanover for the first debate form an image of today's stu­and the political scene that sur­mentioned debate, while the tions were held, and again,of the campaign. dent as an uncaring and unin­rounds them. demonstrations continued students made their presence 
Simultaneously, in an at­formed group that refuses to While they may not be as without many supporters, the felt by filling the hall~ and ask­tempt to gain publicity for put forth the effort to acquaint vocal as their counterparts from auditorium was packed with ing pertinent questions of the their causes, Pro Life and itself with the issues. earlier generation, they often students eager to hear the can­candidates. Pro Choice activists, along While these critics may feel seem more interested in acquir­didates. Other areas containing At a more recent event,
with a few other activist they have all the answers, the ing knowledge about our closed-circuit television screens Reagan-Bush campaign direc­groups, took advantage of one thing they don't quite political process. As a result, were filled with those unable to tor Edward Rollins spoke here this attention by protesting 
about the intricacies of cam­paigning. Cramming a hall that seated fifty, over two hundred 
CONTROWNG 
students listened intently to the 
INFLATION-THE 
strategies of national cam­
FAIREST POLJCY OF All 
paigning. These students, representing a wide range of political viewpoints, came to learn and listen. 
Student activism still has a strong presence on our cam­puses. It is only the methods we employ that have changed. No longer do we march and burn, but try to change the system by working with it. Perhaps a less 
1982 19113 
colorful strategy, but ultimate­
• ly, we think, more successful. 
1979 
by Kim Paap 
University of Californie 
Ronald Reagan has selected more women for policy-making positions during his first two years in office than any of his predecessors. All told, women hold more than 1 ,600 positions in the White House and throughout the Executive Branch. 
Soon after Reagan's elec­tion in 1980, the first woman ever to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court, Sandra Day O'Connor, was appointed. He is also the first president to have three women serve in his cabinet at the same
• 
time. 
Margaret Heckler, Secretary of Health and Human Services, heads an organization whose budget 
H HS Secretary Margaret Heckler 
Is the third largest in the en­tire world. She remarks, "I have had several occasions to recommend alternative solutions to the president on key issues and have been able to convince him to reasses his prior positions. 
All the President's women 
He has always listened to for his genuine support of chauvinists are not willing me carefully and respected competent women. to listen to what women my opinion." Jeane Kirkpatrick, United have to say on foreign af­
Elizabeth Dole, Secretary States Ambassador to the fairs ... The president has of Transportation, is the United Nations, plays a been dealing with me first woman to head a powerful role in the forming seriously, and taking me department which also con­and carrying out of this seriously since I met him. tains a branch of the armed country's foreign policy. And I think he does the same forces, the United States Lest there be any doubt with other women as well.' Coast Guard. Ms. Dole feels about her impression of the Perhaps the best that President Reagan president, she has com­understanding of the Presi­deserves much more credit mented that: 'male dent's attitude towards 
Equal rights: the real story 
Since being elected, the Reagan administration has 
vigorously supported legal and economic equality for all women. 
Reagan has stated that women should be protected against discrimination in all forms, but that these protec­tions should take the form of specific legislation. He believes that legal equity should be guaranteed, but the power to establish that equity should be left with the elected representatives of the people. 
He has also called for and produced stronger enforce­ment of protections already written into the statutes. At his direction, Justice Department workers active­ly enforce possible viola­tions of equal rights legisla­tion passed In the past. 
In 1981, Reagan created the Task Force on Legal Equity for Women to work with the Justice Department in finding and catatogtJing gender-biased laws and rules, so that they can be ef­fectiv!ly changed or eliminated. As a result, more progress has been made to correct gender· biased federal statutes than in any previous administra­
-tion. Ttre Task Force also recommended internal reviews within the ad· ministration to determine possible bias in its own regulations, a recommenda· tlon all 42 federal depart­ments have followed. He has endorsed 122 changes in federal law recommended by his task force on legal equity to remove provisions that discriminate against women, and another project has sparked forty-two of the fifty states into examining their own laws to identify and eliminate gender­discriminatory language. Individual Retirement Ac­countg (IRA) rules have been liberalized, In order to recognize the value of non­working spouses to provide greater retirement savings, the President has proposed raising the spousal IRA limit 
from $2,250 to $4,000. The ..marriage tax penalty" also has been greatly reduced-a great savings to lower­Income families with two breadwinners. 
In addition, since Presi­dent Reagan took office, women have benefited, as llave all Americans, from lower taxes, reduced infla­tion, lower interest rates, and, most importantly, more job opportunities. He has also reduced the marriage tax penalty, virtually eliminated the estate tax, expanded savings oppor­tunities for spouses, put teeth into child support en­forcement legislation, and worked for pension equity for women. 
"We must work together to ensure women can par­ticipate in our national life in the manner they choose and that they are treated equally", he has said. "We, in this administration, are committed to eliminating, once and for all, all traces of unjust discrimination against women." 
women in positions of great responsibility can be glean­ed from his own words: 
·'The conservative party of Great Britain chose Margaret Thatcher as their 

Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole 
leader not because she was a woman, but because she was the best person for the job,' Reagan said. 'There was no tokenism or cynical 'symbolism'. She became a leader of her party, and prime minister of Great Bri· tain because she was judg­ed by her peers to be a superior leader. And that is how the first republican woman president will do it.' 
'The women who have ad­vanced in the Republican party, coming up through the ranks, and doing it by merit. These women are changing America, and they are changing it for the bet­ter. The American people recognize this and will sup­port such a woman when she runs for President of the United States. 


Editorials 
People, not symbols 
You know, there's just no way we can win. 
Back in the 1960s, adults looked down at 
students for protesting. Then, in the '70s, when 
young people were apolitical, they made fun of us 
for being apathetic. 
So now we're turning conservative, and they're 
giving it to us with both barrels. We're selfish. 
We're shallow. We're greedy. We're short-sighted. 
We're stupid. 
Don't we know that kids are supposed to be 
liberals? 
No, we don't know we're supposed to be liberals. We're not supposed to be liberal any more than we're supposed to be conservative or moderate or anything else. 
Today's college students are informed and open-mincad and concerned. And we're definitely not interested in fitting in with anybody's twenty year old stereotypes about what we're supposed to be. 
We're not ·interested in conforming with party labels anymore. Maybe a few more young people are turning Republican, but most of us consider ourselves Independents. With a capital'!'. 
Yes, we're supporting Ronald Reagan this time around. There are six million more jobs than there were when he took office, jobs that we're going to need when we graduate. And we're a lot more con­fident about the future, and a lot more sure of ourselves, than we were four years ago. Reagan deserves credit for that. 
But that doesn't me~n that we're necessarily Republicans forever. Our grandparents voted for FOR in 1932 and voted Democrat for the next forty­five years. Most of us are not making that kind of commitment and we never will. 
Maybe we'll be voting Democrat ourselves ·in four years. Maybe not. But neither party's going to be able to take us for granted, because we'll vote for people and for ideas, not for donkeys and elephants. 
Why not? 
In 1980, about forty percent of the eligible voters between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four voted. That means that sixty percent did not. 
Why not? Officials from both parties are predicting a bet­ter youth turnout Tuesday. But not that much bet­ter. 
Why not? 
Think about it. Most of us will wait in line forhours for tickets to a concert or football game. But we're not going to take ten minutes or so this Tuesday to decide who's going to run our nation for the next four years. 
Why not? 
Think about it. In four years, almost all of us will be finished with school and have jobs. 
Or maybe we won't have jobs. 
Why not? 
THE PROUDER-STRONGER TIMES 
Editor..............................Daniel Schnur Consulting Editors ....Steven Abrams, Thomas Behney Editorial Assistants ......Amy Gordon, Kevin Peartree, Theresa Trainor Contributing Editors ......Joseph Gonyea, Eric Nelsen Kelly Simpson, David White Graphics Design .............Leah Painter, Tim Palen 
The Prouder-Stronger Times Is published by the Reagan· Bush •14 Committee. 
THE PROUDER STRONGER TIMES NOVEMBER, 1984 PAGE 7 
GOP puts on voter blitz 
by Laura Easton 
Southern Methodist Univ. 
The office is tucked away 
in a small corner of the top 
floor of the Reagan-Bush '84 
national campaign offices, 
and often escapes the notice 
of visitors. But in that office, 
which houses the fifteen­
person Voter Programs divi­
sion, lies what many 
Republican leaders consider 
the most crucial aspect of the 
re-election effort. 
Voter Programs has two 
main duties, voter registra­
tion and coordinating a na­
tionwide get-out-the-vote ef­
fort on election day. The 
registration phase of the ef­
fort was completed on Oc­
tober 12th after having 
registered over 3.3 million 
new voters, a vast majority 
having been targeted as 
Reagan supporters. 
'The Reagan-Bush '84 Committee and the Republican National Com­mittee have the most vigorous voter registration program in the United States today', says Vice President George Bush, and Reagan­Bush Voter Programs Direc­tor Helen Cameron takes Bush's statement one step further, saying, 'It is the most intensive effort on registra­tion ever by our party'. 
A CClmbination of techni­ques were used in reaching potential voters, according to LindaZ. Cherry, Deputy Direc­tor of Voter Programs, in­cluding computer identifica-
My dad, the prez (cont.) 
Continued from page 1 
The events in Dallas mark a beginning-of-the-end of sorts for my father. If he goes on to • win the general election (Will it snow in Alaska this winter?), he will be serving his final term in any government office. With this in mind, I thought he'd like to reflect this week on his years in politics. 
To begin at the beginning, Dad never really wanted the job. 'It all stemmed from a speech I made at the end of the '64 campaign,' he says. That speech, on behalf of Barry Goldwater, caught the eye of people whose business it is to promote can­didates. 'I was talked into (running for governor of California) on the basis of our party being split apart after the '64 election and people thinking that maybe I could help bring it together again.' He pauses to switch gears. 'It was a sudden change in my entire life that I never thought I'd make. It got to the place where your mother and I couldn't sleep very well wor­rying as to whether we were being presented with something· we didn't have a right to turn down. Finally, we saw it as a responsibility we 
couldn't avoid.' 
No sooner was he elected governor than pols began nagging my father about the presidency. Characteristical­tion and automated phone calls. But the key, says Cherry, was the volunteers who physically registered the potential voters. 'The com­puter work simply assisted the volunteers in locating the potential new voters', she says. 'Without the volunteers, not one new person would have been registered.' 
The Voter Programs team is now devoting its full atten­tion to making sure that these new voters actually vote this Tuesday. 'We want everyone to participate in this year's presidential electoral pro­cess', says Cameron. 
ly modest, he regarded this as 
a silly proposition. 
Nonetheless, he allowed his 
name to be placed in nomina­
tion as a 'favorite son' can­
didate for the '68 election. 
'Good Lord,' he laughs, 'to 
come from the profession I 
came from and to be only one 
year in the first elective office 
I'd held ... to stick my head 
up and announce I was runn­
ing for president, well, that I 
wouldn't do. I never at any 
time solicited votes or said I 
was an actual candidate.' 
'It's no fun to lose,' Dad ad­mits, recalling his first real run at the nomination against incumbent Gerald Ford in '76. 'But we gave it our best shot, I really thought I could make it a race against Mr. Carter,' he continues. 'I'd known him when we were both gover· nors, I'd had a longer time in office than he'd had and, I thought, a better record.' 
Self-effacing as he may be in general, this record is something my father doesn't mind touting. He lights up recalling his days governor, citing a balanced budget and a surplus that was handed back to the taxpayers. It also gives him an opportunity to tweak the noses of those who decried his lack of political credentials. 'They said, 'It has never been done before'-giving back money to the people. I said, 'You've never had an actor up here 
before." Of his first term as 
'~~~~~' 
·'··· 
Of particular concern to the leaders of this effort, though, is the historically poor turnout by young voters. Only forty percent of eligible voters between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four cast ballots in the 1980 elec­tion, and a repeat of that dismal performance could negate the immense popularity that the President now enjoys among young voters. 
'The future of America is riding on this election', says Vice-President Bush. 'And getting out the vote is what elections are all about'. 
president he observes, 'For years and years the debate in Washington has been, 'How much more are we going to spend?' Since we've been here the whole debate has shifted to 'How much more are we going to cut?' 
In a job that calls for press­ing the flesh, my father en­joys the unfair advantage of harboring a genuine affection for humanity. 'I don't know whether it comes from the previous industry I was in,' he muses, 'but I like people. I don't know how anyone could be in this buf.iness without liking them but I have to tell you, there are a lot of politi· cians who don't.' 
'There's a great sense of fulfillment,' my father says of his career in government. There is no hint of frustration in his voice. If nothing else, he is a contented man doing something he believes in. There have been unan­ticipated thrills and unasked­for pain, but, all in all, he 
·wouldn't change a thing. When the time comes, my father will head back to his beloved ranch. Until then his work as a public servant makes everything else look as he puts it, 'dull as dishwater.' 
Ronald Reagan Jr. wrote this column for The Dallas Morn· ing News during the Republican Convention. It is reprinted with permission. 
-r---~~--------~--­
PAGE8 THE PROUDER STRONGER TIMES NOVEMBER. 1984 
Campuses no longer
! 
\ 
! ~ 
by Jeff Jordan 
University of Wisconsin 
On college campuses, traditionally hotbeds of liberalism, conservative ideology would seem the far­thest thing from any student's mind. Burning with political outrage and protest during the Vietnam War years of the 1960's and early '70s, the nation's college cam­
,, puses have been a hotbed for liberal thought. Yet now, in the '80s, it appears the tide is 
I 
i 
turning. 
Student leaders contend that students are fed up with liberal ideologies expounded by Democrats, and that con­servatism and Republican support is growing on college campuses across the coun­try. 
Brian Rogga, chairman of the College Republicans, at the University of Wisconsin, points to a steady increase in his group's membership. "We are the No. 1 political group on the University of Wiscon­sin campus in terms of membership," he said. 
This group of conservative thinkers formed in 1983 "because people were tired of getting one view on this cam­pus," Rogga said. "Between professors, the media, and the liberal ideology in Madison, we keep getting a constant leftist view." 
The conservative student newspaper on campus, the 
I, 
Badger Herald, boasts a cir­
culation of more than 8,000 
'I on the campus of 44,000 
'I students. The Herald, a week­ly publication, claims higher 
Students speak out 
Why do 
I; 
I, 

'I'm going to vote for Ronald Reagan in '84 because of the fine job he's done for the past four years. His foreign policy stand is one which makes me feel proud to be an American. Reagan won't stand for garbage that is handed to us by other coun­tries. His economic policy has also proven itself­America is on its road to ,J recovery one step at a time, and I believe Reagan should
' 
be at the helm.' 
Karla Me~de, Bowling Green State University 
l 
I 
f 
! 
circulation than its daily being conservative-but they counterpart, the Cardinal, are," he said. "If you look at which circulates 6,000 papers the student body as a whole, a day as of last spring. many students are voting 
Mark Hoske, editor Republican." 
emeritus of the Herald, says On the surface, college students are more conser· students are still basically vative than they'd like to ad­liberal, Hoske said. But com­mit. "Individually, if you ask pared to the late 1960's and them, they may not admit to early '70s, conservatism is 
just for 
much more the trend and is growing at many of the so called "liberal schools." 
Reagan's big drawing card among students appears to be the president's stand on economic and foreign issues. "After a lot of years of Democratic spending," Hoske said, "students saw 
liberals 
the trends and didn't want their money going in that direction." The students of the '80s are a group very con­cerned with their future and that of the country's. 
A new day is dawning on campuses across America and the trend is toward con­servatism. 
Confessions of a middle-aged Democrat 
by Vic Gold 
Hearing MarioCuomocompared to tne late Adlai Stevenson 
atthisyear's Democratic conventlon reminded meofthefirst 
time I voted in a Presidential election. 
Theyear-was 1952. Stevenson was the Democratic candidate and, although he tost toDwight Eisenhower, hisstyle and elo­-quence attracteda good many voters tothe Democratic party­
voters like me. 
A dozen years later, afterIwent to work in BarryGoldwater's Presidential campaign, oldfriendswouldask how Ihappened to change party allegiance. My answer was, "Ididn'tchange-the Democratic party did." 
It was an answer Iused not only1n 1964 but right up to this year's Democratic convention. Then, listening to Mario Cuomo, Walter Mondale, Tip O'Neill and other speakers at San Francisco, I realized it wasn't the right answer at all. 
The reason Ibecame a Republican 20 years ago-and why millionsof young. middle--aged and older Americans are turn­Ing to the Reagan-Bush ticket this year--isn't becausethe Democratic partychanged. tt'sbecausethetimes havechanged and the Democratic party hasn't. · 
Everybody agreed that Mario Cuomo gave aneloquent dis-. quisition of the Democratic party's philosophy when he ad­dressed theconvention tn San Francisco. There were media raves over Cuomo's rhetoric and presentation. They style was 1984-but what about the substance? 
It was as if Cuomo-like another New Yorker, Rip Van Winkle-had just awakened from a 52-year sfeep and still thought the country was in the middle of the Great depression of the 1930s. 
TheAmerica that the Democratic keynoter saw that night in San Francisco wasn't a country enjoying an economic boom, after years ofeconomic misery under the Carter-Mondale ad­ministration. Instead, despite the Reagan-Bush recovery ofthe 
past four years. the New York Governor rubbed his eyes and said. as he saw it, things were terrible and bound to get worse. And what was Rip Van Cuomo's recipe toavert this Impen­
ding disaster? The same as Walter Mondale's, Geraldine Fer­raro's~ Ted Kennedy's, Tip O'Neill's, and every other national Democratic leader ofthe past halfcentury: government pro­
grams and more government progr~ms. Bigger gov~rnment spending. Higher taxes. Do we have a problem? Ftne--just throw money at it and it'll all be solved. 
It all started with the New Deal m 1'=J32. l hen came tne Fair Deal of 1948. Then the New Frontier of 1960, and the Great Society of 1964. Nobody argues that all these Democratic programs didn't rpoduce some good. But this is 1984, not 1932or 1964, and the time has long since past when the American people looked to government for the answer to all problems. Instead, what Americans are turning to in the Reagan-Bush program i~ renewed em· phasis on free enterprise and individual initiative .as the answer to our country's economic challenges of the 1980s and beyond. 
Once, perhaps. when Franklin Roosevelt came into of­fice during the Great Depression, government could pro­vide answers. But in 1980 the American people drew the line. What Ronald Reagan's election that year said-and what the Rip Van Winkles of the Democratic party fail to understand--is that as far as the people are concerned. government today is the problem. not the answer. 
Times have changed. The Democratic Party hasn't.lt"s as simple as that. Let Walter Mondale and Geraldine Fer­raro run against Herbert Hoover if they want. but what new voter in 1984 are more likely to recall isn't the Great Depression but the Great Malaise of the Car~er-Mondale years. 
Vic Gold, nationally known author and lecturer, 
you support President Reagan? 
The economic climate is of particular importance to me due to the fact that there is a direct corrolation bet­ween the prosperity of the United States and my parents' ability to put me through college. It is also important to me that we are a strong nation, with a stron leader, one that does not get pushed around by other na· tions as they did in the past. It gives me confidence to know that we are a secure nation. 
Alan J. Levey University of Iowa 

Ronald Reagan has what America wants and needs in a President -strength, morality, and a sense of tradition. He is not the can­did::~te of the rich but the candidate of the aspiring. We are better off than we were four years ago. The economy is stronger; we are proud of our country again; and we are prepared to pro­tect our freedom. 
Sharon Coggan, Northwestern University 
• 

Why vote for Reagan? It's simple. This election is a clear choice between two different views of the role of government: the big spen­ding, big government view of Walter Mondale vs. the free enterprise, limited government view of Presi­dent Reagan. 
President Reagan's record speaks for itself. He has brought the country out of a period of economic disaster and national malaise brought on by the Carter/Mondale team and has restored the nation's confidence in its leadership. 
Eric A. Koch Georgetown University 
PAID I'QR BY R< AGAN BUSH 1:14 COMMITHE 
i support the re-election of President Ronald Reagan and the continued leader­ship of the Reagan ad­ministration. I feel that Reagan's economic policies can successfully lead our nation towards economic stability with full support of American's business and in­dustry. I believe that Reagan's firm stance on foreign political issues must be continued for the safety of our nation. Ronald Reagan will rece1ve my vote in the November '84 elec­tion. 
(aura Moreland, University of Santa Clara 






