Irish Extra-page 7 
-~ --~---~----­


Acclaimed playwright Albee criticizes theater and stage production 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST writing, a three-scene sex farce, at 
StaffRepm·ter age six. 
Albee's playwriting ability 
Playwright Edward Albee, ac­became apparent to him only after a 
claimed by critics as "America's series of failed attempts. Before 
most important dramatist still writing his first play,"The Zoo 
wtiting." spoke on the strengths, Story," Albee experimented with 
weaknesses and future of American several forms of writing, including 
theatre last night in Washington the poem, the short story, and even 
Hall. the novel. Describing these as 
Albee has spent the last several "miserable revelations of his 
years lecturing and discussing his growing incompetence,"he consid­
numerous works on <;:allege ered the need for drastic change. 
campuses across the country. This drastic change came in the 
Some of his most well-known form of play writing, which Albee 
plays include "Who's Afraid of Vir­describes as "a jump off of a 
ginia Woolf ?,""The Zoo Story," and precipice." This jump, however, 
"A Delicate Balance." Albee has writ­allowed him to discover that he had 
ten a total of twenty-five plays, been a playwright all his life, "but 
twenty-one of them original and hadn't known it." 
four adaptations for the stage, in his "Play writing produced the ex­
twenty-five years ofplay writing. traordinary discovery of who I was, 
Albee describes his youth as full of and what my nature was," Albee "brief brushes with education." He comments, "and it's nice to be able attended several preparatory to practice one's own nature." schools in his childhood, usually Albee made strong comments on 
managing to get himself removed the important role of the modern because of truancy or exhibition of work of drama. "A playwright holds apathy for the classes which he was up a mirror to people, and says, 'this 
lbe Observer/johannes Hackrr
often required to take. After briefly is how you are.' If they don't like attending the Valley Forge Military how they are, they must change." He 
We wish you a ••• 
Academy, he transferred to the stresses that society today is too 
Traditional Christmas decorations are being Halls are no exception, as they cooperatefor their
Choate School in Connecticut. easily discouraged by the thought of 
displayedall over campus. Cavanaugh andZahm annual "Merry Christmas" display. 
Here, Albee "learned how to ed­facing tough truths , and instead, of­ucate oneself after education," and ten chooses to ignore reality. how to "make a fool of oneself in He also comments on a definite 
public," skills which he found ex­"gap" existing between the writer's 
Board of Governance discusses 
tremely useful throughout his life. printed work and the final stage pro­While at Choate, Albee partici­duction. He attributes this problem pated in several extracurricular to the misunderstanding of the in­
further plans for parietal changes 
activities, expressing his love for tentions of a writer exhibited by writing, drama, and speech. He com­many directors and critics. 
By ANNE GALLAGHER gramming Board la.-,t night to pres­bers to keep this in mind, and to use 
ments that he had known for some "We probably have more first-rate 
SeniorStaffReporter ent the purpose and importance of the department in their best inter­
time, since age six, that he "was a playwrights today than we've ever public relations at the College. ests.
writer, as distinguished from some­had, none of whom have ever had Director of Public Relations Paula The main objective ofpublic rela­Student Body President Lee Ann one who was going to be a writer." plays produced on Broadway," he McLean addressed a joint meeting of tions is to portray, through the use of Franks, gave the boards an update onHe published his first attempt at play said. 
the Board of Governance and Pro-various media, the beneficial and im­the parietals situation. 
Senate explores different locations for late-night studying on campus 
By MIKE MILLEN thought it important the area be Dining Hall, adding they soon Senior StaffReporter established, noting "it's a part of may be placed in the North collegiate life to study all night." Dining Hall. 
A proposal to establish an all­When asked of the possibility A resolution to include Notre night on-campus study area was of extending the hours of the Dame in the American Associa­discussed at last night's Student Nazz, currently open until 3 a.m., 
tion of University Students Senate meeting. McNamara said "I would prefer 
passed 11 -1. The $200 year to see an all-night study area in a
According to Senator Dan membership fee allows Notre more relaxed atmosphere,"
McNamara, students "need a late­Dame access to any information 
addressing concerns that the
night study place." He said Direc­which the 63 member-schools 
Nazz was small and poorly lit.
tor of Food Services Bill Hickey have placed in the on-line com­has offered the use of the South puter file.
Senator Javier Oliva an­
Dining Hall's faculty dining nounced his intention to address Suzanne Baker, who worked 
room, and that appropriate se­the current parking situation. on last week's student store
curity is the only obstacle left. 
Citing his observations that there presentation, urged the senate to 
The proposal, passed last are sometimes "two or three approve the membership, saying spring, involves maintaining an empty rows near the stadium," she was given valuable informa­area from the hours of approxi­he concluded the faculty has tion about student stores at other mately midnight to 7 a.m., Sun­more spa<:es than they need. schools such as the University of 
day through Thursday. Oliva said he was also unhappy Wisconsin and Georgetown. McNamara said he would be with the current parking system, Domagalski cast the lone dis­
meeting with a representative noting that dorm residents senting vote against the proposal.
from the Office of Student Ac­sometimes leave their seldom­"We're not getting ourcounts to discuss "a financial aid used cars in the same spot for money's worth, " he said, addingpackage to those who will watch weeks, forcing off-campus com­
"there are people here (in stu­
the room.'' muters to park near Senior Bar. dent government) who can't
Oliva said he will re-address the Executive Coordinator Doug handle their own business prop­
issue next semester. Wurth said he was "concerned erly.'' He would like to see stu­with students having to supervise Senator Tom Abood an­dent government "get more from 12 -7." jim Domagalski, nounced his success in plac..:ing organized'" before subscribing to sophomore class president, microwave ovens in the South a service such as this. 
portant campus events in a com­According to Franks, the parietals 
mending way, according to McLean. commission recently met with the 
"We are asked to position the Col­dean ofstudent affairs and residence 
lege favorably to the various public," hall directors. They have yet to meet 
she said. with the Student Affairs Committee, 
"The public is not just out there," Student Affairs Council, or College 
said McLean. "We do have an exter­President Dr. Duggan. 
nal audience; you are our internal They do not have to meet with the 
audience. We are communicating to Board ofRegents over the issue. "It's 
you and about you." not a change in policy, it's a change 
The modes ofthis communication in procedure," said Mary Ann 
process are the Saint Mary's alumnae O'Donnell, director ofstudent activ­
magazine, the Courier, which ities. 
features articles by students and A count is still taking place in the 
alumnae; the Saint Mary's Reports, dorms to determine the number of 
issued bi-annually; Tbe Chronicle, a males currently using the weekday 
newsletter relating faculty publica­parietal system. 
tions and awards; the end-of-year Student government is contacting Report to the Public, which often other colleges to examine their sys­features articles on students and fac­tems, and they are talking with R.A.'s ulty, and their experiences at Saint about the current situation. Mary's; and brochures on the "We want to find out from them if various clubs and departments at the there are problems with noise and College. guys leaving at night," said Anne 
"We're always looking for the Marie Kollman, vice president for kind ofthings going on that are just a student affairs. little different," said McLean. "We The boards wished to clarify the want to know what goes on behind term "women's character," a phrase the dorm president or student which classifies the time women leader; we want to know what is out spend together developing there which we can build on." friendships. In light of the parietals 
McLean stressed the importance issue, the board feels it is important of keeping the South Bend commu­to investigate this, and whether the nity aware of what is happening at extension ofevening hours will have the College. "We want to know how any effect. the College is viewed by people out Kollman stressed this issue is an there." important part ofwhat is going on at 
Public relations, according to the College right now, and that it is McLean, is one ofthe fastest growing important to get student opinion on fields today. She urged board mem-the subject. 

The Observer Tuesday, December 4, 1984 -page 2 
r 
r 
'r 
r 
F 
,r 
r 
t 
r 
r 

The mllitary is considering using robots to 
handle dangerous tasks, such as those involving nuclear materials, and to reduce costs in some construction projects. Army, Navy and Air Force representatives met Thursday with robot-related compan­ies and universities to lay the groundwork for a study that will be used by the Defense Department. The use of robots in shipbuilding would "greatly reduce cost and time elements," said Navy engineer Harvey Knowles. But Bill Mitchell, a University of California graduate student, warned that robots could displace workers. -AP 
Sixteen wildlife and environmental organizations will boycott Japan Air Unes flights starting next month to protest the hunting of sperm whales, a Greenpeace official said Sunday in Bel­gium. The organizations, including Greenpeace, account for more than 2 million members worldwide. They are protesting aJapanese government decision to continue permitting sperm whale hunting, in opposition to a 1981 International Whaling Commission ruling which is not binding. Japan Air Unes is partly owned by theJapanese government. -AP 
A teachers' strike shut down schools in Chicago yes­terday, while public libraries and day-care centers expanded services for the 430,000 affected students and their parents. "They are clearly close to a settlement," said Mayor Harold Washington at a City Hall news conference a few hours after picket lines were set up at the district's 596 schools. Board President George Munoz and CTU president jacqueline Vaughn met privately, said board spokes­man Bob Saigh. "We're going to win," Vaughn, president of the 28,000-member teachers union, told ISO shivering pickets who marched outside a West Side high school in the 25-degree cold. Asked about the salary increase needed to settle the walkout, Vaughn said it would take a "respectable" offer, adding that "two, three, and four percent is not respectable." -AP 
Of Interest · 
A free rock concert could be the reward if Notre Dame raises the most money per capita for the Multiple Sclerosis Society. Aline Gioffre, who is leading the campus drive, will talk about the project tonight at 7 in the Little Theatre ofLaFortune. The drive needs a number of volunteers. MTV is sponsoring the concert prize, and the contest runs until April. -Tbe Obseroer 
Participants from the Women of ND Calen­
dar 1985 will be promoting the calendar tonight from 10:30 to mid­night in four men's dorms. Suzy Lee will be at Flanner's front entrance. Maria Cervantes will be in the Keenan/Stanford lobby. Patti Tripathi will be in St. Edward's lobby, and Susan Hayes will be at Alumni's front entrance. The calendar also will be available in the Huddle Deli and the Morris Inn through Christmas. -The Obseroer 
The World Hunger Coalition will meet 
tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns. All are invited to attend and to listen to Father Bede Jacque speak on the topic of hunger in Africa. -Tbe Obseroer 
A Christmas Bazaar continues all throughout this week in LeMans lobby. Crafts and art from many local artists are on sale, as well as fund raisers from many campus organizations. -Tbe Obseroer 
Weather· 
Cold temperatures will be 
sticking around for a while. Sunny, breezy and cold today with highs in the upper 20s. Clear and very cold tonight with lows from 12 to 16. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs in the low 30s. -The Obseroer 

The Observer-
The Obsenoer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsenoer is published by the students of the University of Notre Damt: and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing The Obsenoer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All rq>roduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Destgn Edttor.............................. Tom Small Design Asststant........................Anne Long Layout Staff..................... Catherine Coffey Typesetters .............. Mary Ellen, Tom, Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor ..... .........................John Heasly Sports Copy Editor .......... Theron Roberts Sports Special Layout. ....... Mike Sullivan Vieupoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce ND Day Editor .................. Barbara Stevens SMC Day Editor ........................ Shirley Ore Ad Destgn................................ Susan O'Hara Pbotograpber..................johannes Hacker 
Arms control strategy could be world's best present 
While no liberal Democratic columnist has yet ob­
served the matter, President Reagan's arms control T0 m M0 wIe 
policy may have been the right idea. He was, at least, 
right in his prediction that when the Soviets found they DaY Chief 
would have four more years of dealing with him, they 
would agree to talk about arms control. Inside Tuesday 


This hardly means that everything is jolly for iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~==::iii:;:iiiii 
Christmas now. Arms control talks were conducted for most of President Reagan's first term, without results. That may or may not have been because Reagan did not take them seriously and proposed unreasonable demands; whatever the situation then, it is the same man in charge. 
Sort of, at least. No one is really in charge of the negotiations; the administration never expected to have to have their own act together quite this quickly. As matters stand, there are two diametrically opposed groups in the administration and it is all too unlikely that Reagan will be able to choose between them. 
that doesn't want peace. 
It is probable that the Soviets do want an agreement of some kind; it may not be possible for any agreement to be acceptable to both. It is folly, however to believe that we will be able to force them into an agreement out offear ofour capabilities for aweapons buildup. Reagan says the Soviet economy will not support an arms race. Perhaps true, but neither can ours. There is little room to cut in our non-defense budget; the Congress will not pass a budget with deficits larger than the current ones. 

The negotiator group, led 
The historical Reagan by George Shultz in the State would go with the Department, believes arms Weinberger group. He has, control talks are important as the Democrats frequently and is willing to give up or pointed out, opposed arms reduce some systems to in­
control throughout his fluence an agreement by the career. He may go into the Soviets to do the same. new talks planning to black­
The other group, led by mail the Soviets into agree· Caspar Weinberger in the ing to his terms. It won't Defense Department, work, unless there are fun­believes nothing should be damental internal problems given up without exacting a in the Soviet Union that no heavy price from the one knows about. Soviets. They prefer no There are rumors that
Reagan's

agreement at all to one Reagan wants to be know as which does not leave the Christmas a statesman and a 
U.S. in a very strong peacemaker. There is little geopolitical situation. evidence to back this up, but 
No one can predict the winner of this conflict; un­less it is resolved before the meeting between Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko Jan. 7 in Geneva, these new talks will never be anything more than that: talks. 
In his campaign, Reagan said he was ready to talk anytime the Soviets were. This seems not to be the case. The Soviets are ready; you can be sure they would not offer to begin a new set of negotiations unless they already knew what they would be negotiating. The U.S. is not ready. If it becomes clear that we are still unpre­pared when the talks begin, the Soviets could very well walk out again, announcing that the U.S. does not take the situation seriously and has no intention ofdoing so. 
The fact that the Soviets were the ones to break off talks a year ago is the only thing that saved Reagan in public opinion. While he has no more elections to run, and so has no need to remain personally popular, he would be doing his party a disservice if his actions resulted in the Republicans' being labelled as the party 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Prncessing 
CaD Chris at: 


it is possible. If this is true, then an agreement of some kind is possible, although not guaranteed. 
It is to be hoped that Reagan will, uncharacteristi­cally, make a decision. Ifhe does not take the initiative now, there may be no opportunity to stop the arms race until at least four years from now. At that point it may be too late. A decision ofsome kind on arms control strat­egy would be the best Christmas present Reagan could give the American people, and the people ofthe world. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 




The Observer Tuesday, December 4, 1984 -page 3 


Guest lecturer Dobozi examines aid programs of developed nations· 
By MARK WINTERS 
News Staff 
"We can't solve Third World problems by being generous," said Istvan Dobozi, director of the Third World Studies Department for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in Budapest, during last night's lecture on the relationship between socialist countries and the new eco­nomic order. 
Dobozi, a visiting Fulbright pro­fessor from the University of Arizona, ex-plained socialist na­tions' criticism ofthe policy and pro­posed changes in current aid programs to the Third World. 
The new international economic order, formulated in May, 1974 at the United Nations, is an attempt to adjust the international economy to aid in the development of Third World nations. Initially, Dobozi believes, "socialist nations found po­litical advantage in the new eco­nomic order be· cause of its anti-Western touch and sentiment." 
"Socialist nations were supportive of the policy in general. However as the policy became more specific they realized the incompatibility be­tween political objectives and eco-. nomic reality. The interests of socialist and developing nations did not coincide. Generosity, fairness, and enlightened self-interest play only a minute part in national deci­sions." 
"Socialist nations found the NIEO to be one sided and indiffernent to domestic constraints. The concern was that developing nations want or­ganizations which they can have uni­
lateral control over." Dobozi s~d. 
"Many third world nations which 
were unjust at home, demanded fair­
ness at the international level. Pro­
gressive domestic reform is needed 

in many nations." 
Over the past few years, eastern· bloc nations have been criticized for their substandard transfer in aid to the Third World. According to Dobozi, "The socialist nations felt that they had not been responsible for current conditions in the south, and rejected demands for resource trans-fer." 
However, Dobozi feels much of this criticism has been unfair be­cause tranfers in resource programs are undifferentiated. "It is wrong to expect less-developed socialist na· tions to make the same sacrifice as western nations. Many socialist na· tions struggle with their own 
domestic problems." 
In addition, Dobozi finds fault with western contributions to de­veloping nations. "Western nations siphon out resources from the Third World much more than socialist na­tions. The western transfers in aid are simply part ofthe profit t.he west has made off of Third World re­sources. The west gets more than it gives back to developing nations". 
Dobozi concluded the present 

system of resource transfer is 
primitive. "Economists recognize 
that we are not implementing assis­
tance programs in the best way. Any 
new ecomonic program should be 
differentiated and require domestic 
reform." 

American playwright Edward Albee spoke before a sizable crowd last night in Washington Hall on the present and future of American theater. Albee, the author of"Who's Afraid ofVir-
High costs keep Notre Dame band from Aloha Bowl trip to Hawaii 
By MIRIAM HILL 

SeniorStaffReporter 
The overwhelming cost of air fare and hotel rooms is the reason the Notre Dame Marching Band will not be with the football team at the Aloha Bowl, said Father Edmund Joyce, University executive vice president. 
Notre Dame witl receive 1400,000 for playing in the Aloha Bowl, most of which will be used to pay the cost of flying the football team and coaches to Hawaii and housing them there. As a result, no money will remain to send the band to Hawaii. "As a wild guess, I'd say it would cost us a quarter of a million dollars to send the band to Hawaii, and we just don't have the money," Joyce said. Joyce also pointed out the difficulty offinding enough hotel rooms in Hawaii for all 220 band members. 
Had Notre Dame decided to go to the Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Arizona, the University would have been able to send the band. 
In reaction to news the band would not make the trip, Assistant Band Director James Phillips said, "I think the whole band is disap­pointed that they can't go, but deep down they do understand what the situation is." Phillips also noted the University would not send a small pep band or just the senior band members to the game because, "it's been our policy that all of the band goes, or none of them-all 220 mem­bers work all year long." 
Band Director Robert O'Brien added there is no possibility of the band paying its own way to Hawaii since not all band members could af. ford the cost. 
For the most part, band members were disappointed but not angry about not going to the Aloha Bowl. "Our first reaction was, 'why can't we go?' but then everyone realized there just wasn't enough money," said drum majorJulie Schwebel. The band does not plan to protest the University's decision. Said band member Shawn Sexton, "We aren't too happy about it, but there's noth­in~ we can do." 
~ANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-ll:OOa.m. -4:00p.m. ~source 
Join Michiana's 1st Team 
..:aank 
for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 
ginia Woolf?" among other plays, told students and faculty of his introduction to the art of 
writingplays. Story onpage 1. 

Observer promotions 

The Obseroer news depart· ment has announced promotions for the fall semester. 
Elizabeth Flor has been promoted to the position of copy editor. She is a senior in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters from Bel· levue, Washington. 
Promoted to the position of senior staff reporter are: Senior Terry Bland ofSouth Bend, Soph· omore Mary Carol Creadon of Riverside, IL, Anne Gallagher of Binghampton, NY, Sophmore Mary Heilmann of Pittsburgh, PA, Sophomore Miriam Hill of Uni· versity Heights, OH and Sopho· more Mike Millen of Los Gatos, CA. 
Promoted to the position of staff reporter are Freshman Scott Bearby of Hammond, IN, Fresh· 

man Chris Bednarski ofMarcellus NY, Freshman Mark Dillon of Bloomfield, NJ, Sophomore Doug Hasler of Beech Grove, IN, Soph­omore Richard Ingrassia, Ann Kaltenbach ofQuincy, IL, Sopho­more Diane McBrien of Grosse Pointe, Ml, Senior Karen McClos­key ofRochester, NY, Junior Bob Musselman of Kettering, OH, Freshman Kelly O'Neil of Walpole, MA, Junior Mary Louise Padden of Louisville, KY, Sopho· more Cindy Raukhorst of Naper­ville, IL, Junior Cathy Ann Reynolds of Wilmington, DE, Freshman Chris Skorcz of Cin· cinatti, OH, Freshman Kimberly Trenner of West Chester, PA, Freshman John Walters of Mesa, AZ and Freshman Beth Whelpley ofWest Chester, NJ. 

You've worked hard getting your degree, hard enough that you'd like to continue that challenge. That's what Army Nursing offers. The challenge of professional practice, new study opportunities, continuing education and travel are all a part ofArmy Nursing. And you'll have the respect and dignity accorded an officer in the United States Army. 
Ifyou're working on your BSN or ifyou already have a BSN and are registered to practice in the United States or Puerto Rico, talk to our Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
SGT .John Moore (815) 727-9120 
CALL COLLECT I 
ARMYNURSECORPS. 
BEAI LYOU(INBE. 

The Observer Tuesday, Dec~mber 4, 1984 page4 
Heart feels 'fantastic,' says transplant patient 
Associated Pres.'i phase," he said. ""lbese an: all drugs that have ef­LOVIS\ilLLE, Ky.· A p<:rkr William fects on the vascular system, causing 
J. Schroeder, his condition upgraded dther constriction or dilation and 
from critical to serious a week after may also at the same time han· ef­
receivirlg a mechanical fieart, told fects on the heart, either to increase 
his surgeon in an interview televised the• contraction of the heart or to yesterday that he felt "like I've got weaken it," Lansing said. 
1 0 years to go." There can be no such effect on a 
"There's just no explanation other mechanical heart, however, "and than it's fantastic," Schroeder, 52, that is why we are doing the study, said in an interview with Dr. William so we can separate out the periph~ DeVries, who implanted the Jarvik-7 eral effects from the cardiac effects," artificial heart. "It's just a-pumping Lansing said. like everything." Although a list ofpossible compli­
He compared its sound to the cations from such major surgery as clicking of "an old-time threshing Schroeder underwent "would fill machine" used in harvesting grain. pages and pages," doctors were es­
Robert Irvine, a spokesman for pecially watching for signs of infec­Humana Inc., said Schroeder was re­tion or blood clots and none had ferring to the "click-click-click" the appeared, Lansing said. 
machines made. Schroeder also said he hoped one 
"I can breathe, I can breathe so day to return to a normal lifestyle, normally," Schroeder said. "When I going fishing and watching bal­came in here (Nov. 11 ), I had about lgames, thanks to the mobility he 40 days to live and I knew that I was 
will be afforded by an 11-pound, Sheila Smiggen and a friend examine a ski artwork by local artists. Various clubs and 
getting weaker and weaker and 
battery-operated portable drive sys-team sweatshirt yesterday at Saint Mary's campus organizations are also selling Christmas 
weaker. Since this operation, I feel 
tern.. The mobility of the . fi~st Christmas Bazaar. The bazaar, which continues giftsfor everyone on your list. 
like I've got 10 years to go right 
reciptent of a permanen~ ~rtifictal all through this week, features crafts, food, and 
now." Schroeder's 10-minute conversa­heart, Barney Clark, was hmtted be-----------------------------------,
th · b · h. 



r-----­
tion with DeVries was videotaped at 
the Humana Heart Institute on Sun­
day night, one week after Schroeder 

~¥~;~~~~:c~:ds~:~~:C~ ITHE NIGH._.-BEFO. REI 
became the second human recipient "My goals arc just to be the same I • 4 I ofa permanent, artificial heart. way I was when I was 40." I Schroeder was regaining his appe­Schroeder spent three hours on 1 1 tite but still eating soft food, said Dr. the portable pump Sunday, the 1 1 Allan Lansing, the institute's chair­man and medical director. Lansing said the medical team was 
Lansing said Schroeder should be ' ________________\ 
I approaching another major step in able to walk through the hospital's I I the experiment. Schroeder's me­corridors in a week or two, but I . \ I chanical heart makes him uniquely "there are two other things we have ~ I I
# ....... 

suited for tests of drugs that affect his nutrition and his
to work on -1 fi;=... I I the circulatory system. strength." I I I "This is an investigational proce­"We're not going to take him out I I ~~ J I dure. Part of the protocol is that we in the hall until he's strong enough I ~ _ 1 need to find out how the artificial to walk without collapsing," he said. \ f 1 heart works and what the body's "Since he weighs over 2~0 pounds, ' I 1 response to it is," Lansing said. it would be a little difficult to get I 1 "This is not a treatment.... It is a him back in the room. 1 I 1 clinical investigative study; the pa­"So, we want him to be able to I I 1 

tient understands this and that is the walk out and also walk back so it whole. purpose of entering this saves strain on our backs." 
I I I I I I

Grenada holds the first 
I ' 
I 

elections in eight years 
Associated Press also received thousands of dollars from private American sources, 

ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada · The some of them wanting to show sup­people of this tiny Caribbean island port for U.S. policy in Grenada and nation voted for a new government others interested in investment yesterday in the first elections in projects. eight years. The United States, which has 
Since the 1976 elections, there spent nearly $50 million in Grenada 

I
have been two coups and a U.S.-led since the invasion, hopes invest· 

I
invasion. ment and tourism will strengthen 

I
Residents stood in lines at many of the island's backward economy. 

I
the 135 polling stations, and elec­Nearly one-third ofthe work force is tion officials predicted a high tur­I
unemployed. nout among the 48,000 registered I 
The Organization of American

voters. I 
States sent tv{_o observers for the

Herbert Blaize's New National I 
Party, a moderate coalition formed elections, but the British Common­I wealth and the United Nations both
in August, and the Grenada United I declined similar invitations from the 1
Labor Party, led by former Prime 

Minister Sir Eric Gairy, fielded candi­Grenada government. Most nations 1 I dates in all 1 5 constituencies. in both bodies opposed the U.S. inva· 1 I The Maurice Bishop Patriotic sion. I ST. LOUIS $39* DALLAS/FT. WORTH $59* I 
Movement ran in 13 constituencies. Each party was allowed to send 1 I 
The party was formed by surviving representatives to the polling places I SAN FRANCISCO/OAKLAND $99* I to observe. Voters marked their bal­
loyalists of Bishop, the leftist prime 

minister whose execution by his lots privately after presenting photo I LA./LONG BEACH $99* identification cards, and their index 1
own army Oct. 19, 1983, triggered There·s a great deal to enjoy on Jet America. Excellent service from our friendly. helpful 
fingers were then stamped with in-1I
the invasion six days later. The lfs the gre9t Night-Before Seat Sale. coming to an people. A delicious gourmet meal. And. lots of room
delible ink.
Christian Democratic Labor Party of 

airport near you~ to stretch out and relax-at a fare thafs more than conservative Winston Whyte ran Campaigning and sales of liquor I lfs easy to confirm your reservation. Just buy fair. lfs great~ five candidates. were banned yesterday. 1 ~:.:our one-way ticket v..ith cash or check at the Jet So take off with the great Night-Before Seat 
The party winning a majority will Blaize was the island's chief mini­America ticket counter at O"Hare any night from Sale. And discover the Jet America difference form a British-style parliamentary ster in 1962-67, before it gained in-1 9 to 11 p.m. And get a great deal when you take government to replace an interim dependence from Britain in 1974. 1 off the very next day. council appointed after the invasion. 
Blaize said he would have no I If no party wins eight seats, a coali­tion government would be neces­sary. He said they should remain until I _:....




===~~&~~~~~~ER~~
None of the members of the Grenada has a well-trained police I 
I,

interim council sought election. force. I ~ . 
The United States officially was The New National Party was 1 ~ Tickets on salef reservations made at the Jet America Ticket OfficeI neutral in the race, but U.S. officials 
formed in August at a meeting of 1 &om 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. nightly
have made clear ~eir preference for Grenada . moderat~s ar~a~ged by 1 I
three Cartbbean pnme mtntsters. .._________________________________________•
Blaize's party. The moderate party 




View~_o_i_n_t_________
T_ue-sd-ay_,o_ec-em_b_er-4,_19-84_-_p_ag_e5 
,1 
,
,
,
,


Americans must respect 
• 

freedom to be different 
The freedom to be different is one of the much as anyone else. The main point here is most important rights protected in the U.S. that Susan does not need any criteria that Constitution. Basic rights are granted in the others find valid as long as she has certainty in 
Constitution to protect citizens from being her own mind for reasons for her actions. The forced to perform actions which are consid­essence of what sets the United States apart ered to be perfectly normal and right for the from most ofthe other countries in the world 
majority of the population but which some is reflected in Susan's stance. citizens disagree with wholeheartedly. The trouble iq Randolph spells further 
An attack on such a freedom is now taking problems for more school children if a con­place against a 17-year-old high school stu­stitutional amendment, that is the favorite of dent. Susan Shapiro. a student at Randolph the vocal political right these days, is passed. A 
constitutional amendment allowing organ­
Mark Boennighausen ized school prayercould cause the situation in Randolph to become widespread across the country. What would happen if a student
Gravity is a myth 
refused to participate in the prayer recited at a 
public school? He or she could be branded an High School in Massachusetts, refuses to stand atheist and, as a result, be subjected to con­for the Pledge ofAllegiance to the Flag which stant abuse like Susan is now. begins each school day. The U.S. Supreme Presently, people can pray in school. Court has ruled that it is the right ofa student Prayers just cannot be organized by the to refuse to participate in such a ceremony, school or the state. Thus, the majority which but many of Susan's classmates and fellow the political right claims want to pray in citizens seem to disagree. school already can, while the minority which 
Susan has been barraged with abusive disagrees can decide not to participate with­phone calls and loads ofhate mail. She has out being identified. Hence, the minority can received so much hate mail that it is now exercise its minority rights without facing the enough to fill a large plastic bag. Many of the prospect of being ostracized. abusive remarks make references to her Most American citizens cherish the Jewish ancestry. Samples include: "dirty Jew freedoms guaranteed to them by the Constitu· bastards, too bad you weren't put in the tion but, if they truly do respect these ovens," and "it can happen here! Think about freedoms, abuse should not be leveled on it! -Jew!" These attacks have lead Susan to ask those who wish to exercise a right that is dif­for police protection at school. ferent from, but not harmful to, the majority. 
The reason Susan decides to remain seated In the end, citizens have the potential to lose is that she feels that the flag is just a symbol their rights when viewpoints and different ac­and, as such, it does not mean anything to her. tions are ridiculed ·and suppressed in a She, however, does not criticize anyone who country that claims to promote freedom. does stand and recite the Pledge. Her only complaint is that she should not be forced to Mark Boennigbausen is a senior govern­do the same act against her better judgment. ment major at Notre Dame and a regular And she does admit to loving her country as Viewpoint columnist. 
VIewpoint wants to bearfrom you. Ifyou bave an opinion, brliUint tn#gbt or
Viewpoint bumorous comment concerning anytblng 
appearing in The: Observerjustsend a let­
ter toP.O.Box Q.
Policy 

The President alone has the responsibility 
So there is Ronald Reagan, triumphant again in victory, beset by a Democratic House, an unruly Republican Senate majority and a still critical ifno longer outright hostile media. 
Everyone -House, Senate, media -agrees that "the president alone" must bear the bur­den of resolving the array of unresolvable 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
problems. But everyone is also there to tell him how to do it and to damn him to eternity if he does not. 
We load our presidents with superhuman expectations, elect all-too-human men to carry them out and place every obstacle in their paths to foul them up. 
"There is a crisis," says James Jones, a leading House Democrat. "Reagan will have to define that crisis for the nation." Well, the last time a president defined the nation's crisis was whenJimmy Carter called it "a malaise" of the people themselves and got his comeup­pance with a vengeance. 
Yet the people accepted FOR's diagnosis of the crisis in 1933 as "fear itself' that could be allayed by "action, and action now." It all depends on the cannint:ss ofthe president and the trust reposed in him. 
The nub ofRoost:velt's strength was his role as educator, especially through his "fireside chats." His expositions of the bank crisis and later of Lend-Lease were masterpieces offolk imagery. Reagan as a communicator comes a close second in the same role. 
There are enough people who will take a hand in locating and defining the crisis, as if there were a solitary, all-embracing one. Many say it is the budget deficit, or tax reform, or Soviet expanionism or nuclear arms control. Some say it is the immigration flood across the Mexican border, and some say it is crime or drugs. The liberal moralists say it is inequality, the black preachers say it is the heartlessness ofthe government, while the conservative 1V evangelicals say it is materialism, the sensual culture and the relativism ofvalues. 
llstening to this babel of voices we recog­nize it as democracy. More than any other democratic culture the Americans look to their head ofgovernment to be not only chief executive and chief educator but chief prob­lem solver and chief target when the prob­lems refuse to be solved. 
When opponents and supporters alike say "the president alone" must define the crisis and take responsibility for it, they have to be using him as a symbol. We pick not the most 
brilliant  among  us  but  the  one  who  can  
muster  enough  trust  to  preside  over  the  
vastest,  most  complex  and expensive  

problem-solving apparatus in the world. 
The United States today is a computer cul­ture where the treasury secretary can point to his bulky report on the new "simplified" tax proposal and call it the product of a "word processor," which means it is up for grabs as a bargaining chip. The United States is also a cul­ture where the Freudian and behaviorist schools, formerly popular, have been replaced by a problem-solving "cognitive sci­ence" as the leading psychology. 
Beyond all the particular problems, and beyond the technological revolutions that un­derlie them, there is a haunting question. The question is whether the liberal democracies contain a self-destructive drive that hobbles their collective social intelligence. 
Ronald Reagan's re-election victory ex­presses the large national resolve to move beyond the traditional liberal model ofthe last half century. The people have entrusted him not only with a mandate but also with its head­aches. 
He must come up with the requisite leader­ship or else he risks being deprived of that "place in history" that every president courts. And, like other presidents, he is terribly alone on the lonely height he campaigned to com­mand. 
( C)1984, LOS ANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 

=-~-~The_ Observer-Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edltor·in·Chtef. . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager........... Dave Taiclet Managmg Editor . . . . .... Mark Worscheh Controller . ............... Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . . . . .... Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . ...... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Edttor . . . . . . . . . . . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reported as Saint Mary's Editor . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager.. . ... Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor...... . . Michael Sullivan Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column V1ewpotnt Edttor . . . . .... Dave Grote Project Manager . . . . . . . . Amy Stephan present the views of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Edlfor . . . ..... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opin1ons on campus. through letters. Photo Edttor. . . . . . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 

The Observer Tuesday, December 4, 1984 -page 6 
) ' 
I 
,I . 
I .· 
! ; 
1 
r { 
I / 
! 
, --I 
:; 
(\
~/. 
,·. 

i ( 
I:' 
~ 

i 
( 
/ 
; 
/
f 
~ 
/
·/
1/ 
( 
j 
i 
) I 
''. ' 
If 
,, 
t. 
Watch for University's Machiavellian behavior 
DearEditor: 
Congratulations to the Dry Driving Club! Congratulations also to Don Todd and to the student body which approved its founding. 
Much of the youth today is totally unaware of the danger alcohol can present. They know nothing of the net that surrounds them. As in· comprehensible as it seems, there are activi­ties occurring around them that may just lead to their entrapment. 
If the perpetual campaign of the Uquor In­dustry pays off for them, they may be the vic­tims. 
When you leave home for the University you are impressed by the glamorous sports programs, and you feel safe in your new home away from home. 
What some of you do not know is that the board of trustees and the administrators of this haven have been taking favors from the liquor Industry for so long that they are now compromised and cannot, or are reluctant to, do anything to offend it even where your welfare is concerned. 
It is a pyramid game. Students generate the profits that make the contributions possible. How can the Board or administrators stand up against promotions on or around campus when their coffers are being filled? 
Making profits is the Industry's goal and its only concern when students drink respon­
,sibly or, better yet, do not drink is that the industry loses business, and it cannot allow that -for long. 
Somewhere along the line, students must wake up to the fact that they are being used and that their tuition should buy a more honest deal from the University. 
Keep your eyes and ears open, and I assure that you will learn as much from the Mac­hiavellian behavior you uncover as from your textbooks. 
Ann Tucker Chicago, Ill. 
Exploration for its own sake is not meaningless 
DearEditor: 
I am writing in response to the editorial by john Perez in which he criticized the lack of goals in the American space program. He stated that we should not go into space be­cause the National Aeronautic and Space Ad­ministration cannot tell us exactly what benefits the nation and the world will receive from space exploration. Perez also asked ifwe actually need any of the technology that would be derived from the space program. Fi­nally, he concluded that the space program has done nothing to improve life on earth and that exploration for its own sake is meaning­less. 
I agree that the American space program 
.lacks cohesive goals and purposes. This is an unfortunate reality caused by the shortsightedness ofpoliticians and by some of the public. By using the arguments set forth by Perez, they have continually attacked the pro­gram, thus making it difficult for NASA's fun­ding and forcing it to abandon various cost-cutting techniques. 
The question still remains, however, ofwhy we should go into space. It is true that the ex­act benefits cannot be dearly defined now, but neither could Columbus tell Queen Isabella the exact benefits of exploring the New World. How could NASA have predicted the benefits of space exploration that we already enjoy? These benefits include the communication revolution due to the com­munication satellite, the millions of lives and dollars saved due to weather satellites, the hand-held calculator and the digital watch. The uses of space technology range from the use ofrocket fuel pumps by firefighters to put out fires thirty stories high to the use of high frequency sound waves to diagnose burn patients. 
Perez asked if space technology has im­proved our lives. All he would have to do is to ask the people with pacemakers if their lives heve improved, to ask the people in under­developed countries who are still alive be­cause the famine they are experiencing now would have been worse if it were not for satellites which told them of changes in the climate or to ask diabetes and cancer victims who may someday be totally cured with drugs developed in space. It is difficult to find an 

P.O.Box Q 
aspect of today's world which has not been affected by space exploration. 
The statement by Perez which disturbed me the most was the "exploration for the sake of exploration itself is meaningless." I am glad that Perez was not present when Jonas Salk did his preliminary work which led to the near eradication ofpolio. 
The human spirit is characterized by its quest for the unknown. We prove this every day by being here at the University to learn about the world around us. I cannot guarantee what benefits will result from the space pro­gram, but I'do know that they will improve life for all of mankind. I agree that we have many problems on earth but to ignore space as a possible solution to these problems would be total folly. To turn our backs now on the gifts of the unknown would be similar to not opening a book out offear of what it may not say. It would signal the end of the human 
spirit. Stephen Claeys DtllonHall 
Wants mainstream rock-n-roll not classical 
DearEditor: 
I have just heard Cindy Lauper on U93 for 
about the fifteenth time this hour. So I turn the 
dial two clicks to the right, landing on W AOR, 
and hear something not much better -a com­
mercial. So, flipping the dial over to Notre 
Dame's student-run FM station, hoping to hear 
some Twisted Sister, U2 or Thompson Twins, 
I hear not "I Wanna Rock" or "New Year's 
Day" but ... Classical Music!? Why classical 
music on the student FM station? According to 
the station manager, in an interview in The 
Observer last week, it is because "it has always 
been that way and there is no reason to 
change" and "there is a large South Bend audi­
ence which likes classical music." 
Well, the fact is, a very small minority of 
Women's basketball needs to be recharged 
DearEditor: 
Don't complain about Gerry -at least he is a good guy and is winning now. Why don't you walk over to the ACC on Wednesday night and see how a real bad coach handles her superb talent. For the few who attend the women's basketball games, it should be obvious who this "coach" is-Mary DiStanislao. While she may entertain any attending fashion editors, she has done nothing but frustrate concerned Notre Dame basketball fans. 
How can she expect to beat, let alone be, a top-ranked te~m when her combination of starters can't even beat Purdue ( 5-23 )? Obvi­ously, while averaging 25 turnovers a game Mary should look toward her bench -it cer­tainly couldn't hurt. How can she justify losing when her most experienced players are sit­ting -Mary Beth Schueth, senior co-captain who led the 1983-84 team in rebounding, scoring and minutes played. Laura Dougherty, senior co-captain, led the nation in free throw percentage for most of last season. Vonnie Thompson, sophomore guard, was second in minutes played and led the Irish in assists last season. 
Once again, how can Mary Di justify losing when in the Purdue contest, out ofa possible 200 minutes, these three combined played a maximum of 10 minutes. All of this could add up to another mediocre season, which would be a real waste of talent and another disap­pointment to the fans who have the right to 

Notre Dame Students listen to classical music, and a vast hoard is clamoring to hear some mainstream rock-n-roll, New Wave, punk music and head-banging music. In my four years here, I have never been able to pick up the AM station, which does play this type of music. 
Now, instead of pouring money and effort in AM stereo, why not make the FM station rock-oriented and play classical music on the AM station? That way all the Notre Dame stu­dents could listen to rock music on the FM station, which everyone can pick up on their stereos, and those interested students could hear classical music on the AM station. 
MikeRaab Keenan Hall 

Thanks Notre Dame's Thanksgiving gifts 
DearEditor: 
The Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition and the South Bend Saint Vincent dePaul Soci­ety would like to thank the Notre Dame stu­dent body and Sacred Heart Parish for their generosity in donating money for the hungry of South Bend. Collections were taken in various hall chapels and at Sacred Heart on the Sunday before Thanksgiving. More than $800 was raised. Some of this money was used to purchase food for Thanksgiving baskets, and the rest will buy food for Christmas for those unable to provide for themselves. Your help was greatly appreciated. Thank you. 
Notre Dame World Hunger Coalttton St. Vincent dePaul Society 
expect a nationally competitive team. 
Wake up, Gene Corrigan, and hear our 
echoes -at the end of this season even Mary's 
Di-Hards may need to be recharged. 
Maureen Galligan Rita Clemens Saint Mary's students 

Disregard for the plight of the Afghanistans 
Dear Editor: 
From The Observer's point of view, it seems that the savage, systematic slaughter of a mil­lion or more people is no longer the stuff of news. In the good old days, genocide made a nice headline or two. At The Observer, anyway, times have changed. Such items as a television comic's forthcoming appearance deserves a thoughtful few paragraphs, but the brutal, gruesome massacre of hundreds of thousands of men, women and children, as described by a prominent lecturer, deserves not even a word ofacknowledgment. 
I refer to the Nov. 12 lecture concerning the situation in Mghanistan, given by former Afghan Minister of Interior Ahmadullah. Unlike The Observer, theSoutb Bend Tribune found this lecture of such substantial news value that an account of the lecture received top billing on the first page of their Nov. 13 issue. How, I wonder, did The Observer manage to disregard the news value ofan aut­horitative account of the terrifying situation in Afghanistan? This disregard, it seems to me, stems from a set of warped priorities. Con­sider that on Nov. 14 The Observer, no doubt inspired by a sense of journalistic responsibil­ity, devoted several lengthy paragraphs to comic Steve Landburg's upcoming visit to Saint Mary's, yet The Observer never saw fit to print a single word telling of Ahmadullah's speech. 
From The Observer we most assuredly may expect in-depth analyses of the all-important "Women of Notre Dame Calendar" affair and other such earth-shaking, mouth-watering af­fairs but of the sickly, present-day massacre of millions ofAfghans we get nothing. 
Perhaps we need not know of the ap­parently widespread Soviet practive of drop­ping small toy trucks into remote Afghan villages where playful children reach out to the intriguing objects, only to have their arms ripped off by explosives in disguise. Perhaps we need not know of the innovative Soviet policy of "migratory genocide" whereby entire villages are systematically wiped out one-by-one, where fields are chemically poisoned and villagers slaughtered outright. Who, after all, needs yet another account of the world's unnerving horl'Ors to spoil an otherwise nice day? On the other hand, there is something there that says we need to know, that we should know. 
Michael Tann Fisher Hal/ 

Difference between gun control and ban 
Dear Editor: 

"In a nation governed by law, there is no greater tragedy than the loss of those killed while trying to enforce and defend that law." 
This statement was made by Attorney Gen­eral William French Smith after the death of 
U.S. Marshall Kenneth Muir and Deputy Mar­shall Robert Cheshire. How were these two men killed? They were killed by illegally pos­sessed weapons. Handguns, rifles and auto­matic weapons were used in these brutal murders. 
Yes, our nation has a problem, one which 
must be controlled. That is the word which is 
the essence ofthis article, control -not ban. In 
response to the recent article titled "Tighter 
Control on Guns Needed Before More Sense­
less Deaths Occur," We must agree that a 
tighter control is needed. The title persuaded 
us to read this article, only to find afterwards 
that the title grossly misrepresented the body 
and statement of the words which followed. 
Guarino's article implies that the only possi­
ble measure to cure this problem is an all-out 
ban on handguns. Another cliche used by the 
NRA is "if handguns were outlawed, only out­
laws will have handguns." Handgun control is 
a completely different concept than handgun 
ban. Control refers to regulations such as a le­
gal purchasing age for handguns (preferably 
21 ), a legal age for buying handgun ammuni­
tion, a licensing ofall handguns and a waiting 
or a "cooling off' period between the pur­
chasing and receiving of the ordered hand­
gun. The above or similar laws are in effect in 
many states. These measures are needed to 
make sure that handguns are purchased for a 
mature, sensible reason. This is the aim ofgun 
control. 

The weapon used in the shooting referred 
to by Guarino was, undoubtedly, attained 
through illegal means. No 15-or 16-year-old 
could go out and legally purchase a gun. Even 
with a ban on weapons, it is quite possible that 
Ben Wilson would still have lost his life. Not 
only would a ban prevent citizens from pur­
chasing weapons for protection againM per­
sons like those who killed Ben Wilson, but it 
would also prevent the use ofhandguns in rec­
reation sports like hunting and target shoot­
ing. A ban on handguns would not only 
prevent these activities but it would also strip 
us ofa basic constitutional right. Amendment 
2 states "the right of the people to keep and 
bear arms shall not be infringed." To take 
away this right would mean that all our prin­
cipals and foundations of freedom, which 
have been defended for over 200 years would 
die in the battle ofbureaucracy. 
To Guarino, we believe the problem you discussed needs to be settled but in a different method than what you suggested. We knew two men who would never sacrifice their right to possess firearms, and we know of two widows who feel the same way. 
john Trusela PatHtrl St. Edward's Hall 

a sports supplement
page7 oacember 4, 1984 

Irish hope to ride Rivers to NCAAs 
Digger Phelps entrusts team's future to quick hands of freshman 
ByPHRWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
The ball is loose, three players dive for it and one ofthem comes up with it. While still on his knees, he fires a pass backward over his head right to a teammate 30 feet away to start a fast break. 
The same player has the ball a moment later on a fast break ofhis own. He goes up for a layup, but a defender is in his way. So the ball goes behind his back and comes out in the hands ofanother teammate, who slams it home. 
Over the head, behind the back, between the legs. Conventional passes, unconventional passes, seemingly impossible passes. All are in the repertoire ofthis exciting point guard. 
His name is David Rivers, and he has brought excitement to Notre Dame's Athletic & Convocation Center for the first 
David Rivers NO point guard 
time in years. He has taken the usually slow-paced and calculated Irish offense and turned it on its head. 
"He is the offense; that should be obvious," Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps said ofhis freshman point guard. "Rivers is very, very creative. That is his natural talent. He's creative with the ball for himself, and he's creative getting it to the other four guys on the floor and making them look better. That's what he is. That's why he's here. That's what we need." 
Rivers may be just what the Irish need, and he says he is ready to fill the role as the leader ofhis team. 
"My role is basically to run the team and see that the offense is run the way it's supposed to be run," Rivers says. "I have to keep the communication lines open between the players and the coaches." 
In addition, Rivers often must decide on his own which offense to run because there is not time enough to check with the bench first. 
"My role is to take command in situations such as that," he says, "and run the offense that I think would be appropriate for the team." 
Phelps does not seem too concerned about leaving the 
ofhis team in the hands of the freshman. For the first month ofpractice, he insisted, his only goal was to prepare the team to play with David Rivers -to play his style of basketball. 
IfNotre Dame's victories during the first week ofthe season are any indication, the team has, indeed, learned to play with Rivers. But will that trend continue? Is it.too much to ask ofa freshman to lead a big-time college team? Is there too much pressure on him? 
"No," Rivers insists. "I don't think there's any pressure, simply because I'm used to this type ofsituation. In high school I had the same responsibility. There is no pressure at all as far as running the team." 
The high school to which Rivers refers is St. Anthony's High School in Jersey City, N.J., where he averaged 17.1 points per game in his career. In his senior year, he averaged 
24.5 points, 8.5 rebounds and 7.5 assists per game as he earned a spot on eight prestigious all-America teams, including McDonald's,Parade and USA Today. 
Phelps likewise shrugs off the implication that there is too much pressure on Rivers. 
"Are you kidding me?" he says. "He's in his environment. He's very comfortable as soon as you put him in that perimeter with the two baskets, the ball and his team." 
In fact, the only problem Rivers says he has had in adjusting to basketball at Notre Dame is the caliber of the opponents. He had a rude awakening against the Zadar Club ofYugoslavia when he found he could not drive the lane against the big front-line players. He finished that game 7 -for-21 from the floor and followed that performance with a 4-for-13 showing against Manhattan. 
"The biggest difference in college basketball is the opponents," the 6-0, 1 70-pound guard explains. "They're much bigger than the opponents I played against in high school, so I've had to adjust as far as taking eight-foot jump shots rather than going all the way to the basket and getting hit by those seven-footers." 
Phelps said he is not concerned with Rivers' shooting in the early games, and his confidence in the freshman paid off 
see RIVERS, page 8 
Beginning of an era? 
Irish may be-young, but talent, depth, game experience bode well for 1984-85 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Editor 

Few people who know Digger Phelps would call the Notre Dame basketball coach a quiet man. But for once, Phelps is quiet-quietly confident his 14th Irish squad will be a good one. 
Phelps knows how much talent the 1984-85 team has and what might be accomplished with that talent, but he also knows that the Irish still face many obstacles before they can make the transition from being a good team to being a great team. 
So Phelps isn't talking much these days about Top 20 rankings or NCAA tournament bids. Instead, he's talking about how important it is to keep everyone healthy and to make it into the second semester with all his players eligible. He knows that the last two are a stepping stone to the first two. 
It is with this same quiet confidence that Phelps talks about his front line, one that has three proven starters and a good deal ofdepth. 
The frontcourt: Phelps is counting on a trio of juniors to carry much of the load here. Tri-captains Ken Barlow, Jim Dolan and Tim Kempton, in their third year playing together, form the nucleus ofa deep front line. As a group, the three play very well to­gether, but each also has his own individual identity on the court. 
Barlow, at 6-1 0, has the capability to go inside and do a bang-up job on the boards. At the same time, he also can move outside and hit with consistency. Perhaps the most important thing in the case of Barlow is the way he keeps improving with every game, and with that improvement comes increased confidence. 
"Barlow is much improved," says Phelps. "He's probably the most improved of the three returning up front. He's stronger and he's shooting the ball much 


better. The experience he got this summer playing with the NIT All-Stars in Europe has been invaluable. 
"Because he works so hard out there, I think he should have a very good year. The only thing he might need to work on is his consistency and playing his game." 
Barlow, who averaged nine points and 5.5 rebounds per game last year, already is off to a good start this season. Through three games, the lanky junior has 
improved his scoring average to just over 1 3 points a 
game. 

Meanwhile, Dolan has yet to see any action this 
season because ofa shoulder injury suffered in an 
exhibition game with Zadar ofYugoslavia. Probably 
Notre Dame's most consistent player, he also plays a 
very smart game. 
"Dolan, because ofhis intelligence to where he gets things done and reads things very well from foul line to basket, is usually the most intelligent player on the floor," Phelps says. "Yet, he's also so consistent. He was our only player to start every game last year." 
Notre Dame discovered how much it needs Tim Kempton last year in the second half of the season. Rolling along, the Irish struggled once Kempton went out of the lineup with a stress fracture, but came to life again when the 6-9 center returned for the National Invitation Tournament. 
"We found out last year that we need Tim Kempton when we lost six games without him while he was hurt," says Phelps. "Once we got him back, we made it to the NIT finals, where he played very well." 
The Irish coaching staff will attempt to move Kempton outside more this year to take advantage of his shooting ability. 
"I think he's ready to face the basket more," the Irish coach says. "We want to do that with him. We want to bring him outside more this season because Timmy can shoot the ball. 
"We need him to have a lot ofbig games this year. He's going to have to do more than just take up space, and I think he can. 
"Having played together for three years, Kempton, Barlow and Dolan are very experienced," continues Phelps. "I think they compliment each other very well. Their experience means a lot to us. But we have good depth, too." 
Sophomore Donald Royal often will be the first forward offthe bench. Royal, who played weU last year when called upon to replace the injured Kempton, adds quickness to the front line and is an excellent rebounder. 
see SEASON, page 9 
.-'--?­


' 
{ 
( 
~ 
( 
j 
~ 
f 
( ( 
lI ( 
~ 
{ 
( 
~ 
( 
BASKETBALL December 4, 1984 -pa e 8 

Ticket sales mirror success on court 

On March 1, 1977, the University ofSan Francisco basketball team visited the ACC for a game televised nationally by NBC. The Dons had won 29 consecutive games and were ranked No. 1 in the country, but the Irish, led by Duck Wil­liams, knocked them off, 93-82. What was particu­larly noteworthy about the game, though, was the fact that NBC named the Notre Dame student body as the MVP of the game. 
It was on crowd performances like this that the 
NO student body has earned the reputation of 
being one of the most intimidating student bodies 
around. Both in the old Fieldhouse and in the 
ACC, which opened in 1968, Notre Dame stu­
dents have found ways to make their presence 
felt. 
While some people, like Chicago Tribune 
columnist Bill Granger, who once wrote a column 
saying he loved to see Notre Dame and its ob­.noxious fans lose, feel the crowd's behavior is out 
ofline, there is no doubt that Irish basketball 
crowds can be "interesting."Just in the past four 
years, they have jingled keys at UCLA players in 
reference to a scandal where certain players were 
supposedly given cars, they have cheered loudly 
for opponents' benchwarmers or opponents with 
unusual names, and they have harassed oppo­
nents' ballhandlers by devising various cheers for 
individual players. And that is just in the past few 
seasons. This .kind ofbehavior has been going on 
for years. 
This active crowd has given the Irish a definite 
home-court advantage. In the 16 years since 
Notre Dame moved into the ACC, for instance, 
the Irish have won 83 percent (203-42) oftheir 
games. 
'There are some very good reasons why the 
basketball crowd is much more influential than, 
say, the football crowd. Obviously, the enclosed 
arena and the nearness of the crowd to the action 
are the major reasons. 
But also important is the composition of the 
basketball crowd. Unlike the football crowd 
which includes many people who go to the game 
because it is such a big social event, nearly every 
single student at a basketball game came for the 
sole purpose ofwatching the Irish play basketball. 
For the most part, the students have a good 
understanding ofbasketball and remain very 
much in the game -even ifthe opponent doesn't. 
They know good plays, bad plays, good players, 
Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
bad players and bad calls when they see them. 
Needless to say, student participation in the basketball games is a good barometer of the success of the program. When things are going weii, the crowds are large and loud. When things aren't, the crowds are smaller. In other words, student basketball ticket sales are a good indica­tion ofwhether the program is in an "up" or "down" period. 
Using this gauge, it is obvious that the program has been in a "down" period over the past few years. Last year's total of2800 student season tickets was the lowest total in a long time. 
"Back in the '70's, we'd sell 4800 to 5000 student tickets easily," says first-year ticket manager Mike Bobinski. "Back then, freshmen couldn't even get tickets, or else they had to enter a lottery to get them." 
The lack ofsuccess on the court has had a lot to 
do with this, but there are other reasons, accor­
ding to Bobinski. 
"Sales have been hurt somewhat by the relatively poor schedule we've had at home the past few years," he explains. "There are a lot of mid-week games, too. That didn't seem to mean much before, but it seems to now." 
Even the lack ofsuccess of the football team has played a part. just as the social life on campus reflects to some extent the performance on the football field, so, too, are the basketball ticket sales affected. 
"You can't get around the fact that football does have an effect on everything that goes on around here," says Bobinski. "Because the tickets are sold in the middle of the football season, before the basketball season has started, the basketball team hasn't had a real chance to establish its own identity yet. Students don't know what the team is going to be like, so they sometimes base their decision about whether to go to games on how the football team looks." 
On the other hand, price and availability of tickets over the past few years haven't been major deterring factors. For the 1984-85 season, lower arena seats are going for about $3.30 per game and bleacher seats for about $~.35. Considering that in 1981-82 tickets were S3 and S2, respectively, for each home game, it is obvious that the prices are very reasonable, if not a bargain. 
Some students have complained that the tickets are no longer divided into two relatively equal packages like they were a few years ago, but the change back to ticket packages for the entire schedule has allowed everyone who wants to see all the games to do just that. No more lotteries for freshmen and sophomores. No more split-season packages. 
All this could change in the future, though. And, in fact, it looks like there is starting to be a swing back to the days when students would sleep outside the ACC just to get basketball tickets. 
According to Bobinski, there has been a significant increase in ticket sales this year. Approximately 3200 ticket packages have been sold, an increase of 400 over last year's total of 2800. This figure is still far from the 4800-5000 tickets sold in the '70's, but it does mark the end ofa downswing and seems to indkate that many students feel the basketball program is about to rebound from three years without an NCAA tournament appearance. 
Bobinski is confident that the renewed excite­ment for basketball is something that will con­tinue to increase as the team returns to the level ofsuccess on the court it attained in the days of Kelly Tripucka and Orlando Woolridge. 
"With just a few years of good improvement on the football field and the basketball court, things will really pick up," says the 1979 graduate who was a student during the Tripucka years. "When the students get that winning feeling, it feeds on itself. Then people are quick to jump on the bandwagon." 
The late-season rally by the football team and 
the impressive play of the basketball team 
through three games sure will help bring back the 
winning feeling that Bobinski is talking about. So, 
if Digger Phelps' team continues to play good, 
exciting basketball, and if David Rivers lives up to 
everyone's expectations, there might not be 
much room on the bandwagon come tournament 
time. 

.. .
I '
l;r;· .,., Tim Kempton NO center 
'r'
' 

, 
J 
.ll} 
"-i 
i 
' >
I 
/-...} 
/( 
~~ 
I 
~~ 
I 
( . 
~~ 
f[ 
·[
j­
) .~ 
? 
'' ~; 
1/ 
~ 
( 
/. 
i ~ I • • • Rivers
continued from page 7 
I
i 
~ as Rivers hit six ofhis 12 field-goal attempts against won't be able to master the academic workload. He even in the least-exciting games. And Rivers is having coming down on the break because he has been ( Northwestern. points out that every season the freshmen go through fun. getting the ball there," forward Ken Barlow says. "I "He's going to make mistakes. He's a freshman," the­"culture shock," and every class in his 13 years at "I like the fast game because you have the chance to guess it's just up to the other offensive players to be ~ Irish coach points out. "There are going to be things Notre Dame has recovered. be creative," he says. "You get yourselfin a certain ready to catch it." A I he got away with in high school that he's going to have Rivers says he expected to have to work hard at predicament and then in a matter ofa split second you
I So far, the Irish have been able to catch Rivers' 
r•. to adjust to in college." Notre Dame, but he says he believes that getting his have to get yourself out ofit." 
passes, and they have converted them into threel Another thing Rivers has been forced to adjust to is degree is worth the effort. He passed up the chance to "'Getting out ofit," in Rivers' case, means throwing straight wins. How long that winning will continue/ ~ the academic workload at Notre Dame. He says he has play at several excellent schools for the opportunity to passes over his head, behind his back, any way he can remains to be seen, but there certainly is a lot off found the work here much more challenging than that come to Notre Dame. Among the colleges that courted
~ 
get them to his teammates. Still, he insists, he always optimism in the south dome of the ACC these days.
/ .which he had in high school. Several times this season, Rivers were Boston College, North Carolina State,
,( knows exactly where the ball is going. The freshman point guard is no exception.
Rivers and some ofhis teammates have been excused DePaul, Seton Hall and Iona. 
.( ~ from practices to spend time with their books. "I usually glance at the player before I even make an "I really do think we have the characteristics ofan ,,i ; "You have to have something to fall back on after attempt to pass," he claims. "Ifthere is a question of
~ 
"I just have to put in a lot more time (with NCAA championship team," Rivers says. "With hard
,f your four years in college," Rivers says. "I feel that if I whether the pass will get there on time, then I won't 
{ I ( academics) than I normally would (in high school)," work and determination I think we will be (the 
can get a degree from Notre Dame, then when throw it."
I Rivers says, "because at Notre Dame they throw a lot champions); if not this year then maybe next year; if
' 
., basketball is over I will have a great deal to fall back
I at you as far as academics and I wasn't used to a lot of Nobody knows exactly how Rivers sees his not next year, then definitely the year after that. 
-{ on. Getting that degree is important to me in my life."
I work being thrown at me all at once. That was my teammates on the floor. Maybe he has eyes in the back "I can almost see it. Before I graduate, we will win
i 
f ( 
biggest adjustment, and I believe I have adjusted Meanwhile, Rivers' play is important to the life of ofhis head. Then again, nobody cares how he sees as an NCAA title."
I 
( pretty well." the team. And the fans love what they are seeing. The long as the rest of the Irish can see the ball coming. Maybe Rivers can see it with those eyes in the bad
~ 
~~ Phelps says he is not very concerned that Rivers new fast transition game has brought them to their feet "You have to just have your eyes open, looking for it of his head. 
I 
( ~ i 
I,
/ I 
! 
/" / ( 

The Coaches 
( 
l 
(
l 
i 
r 
r ( ( I Bob Knight 
( 297-94 at Indiana f ~ 14th year 
i 
two national championships 
i ~ vs. 
( 
Digger Phelps 
259-123 at NO 14th year 
BASKETBALL December 4, 1984-page 9

J Extra 
The Class of '88 takes its place 
Four members of highly touted recruiting class expected to add speed and shooting, but mostly depth to Irish squad 

By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
Much is expected ofthe Notre Dame basketball team this year, as it is hoped the team will reach the NCAA tournament for the first time in four years. As the Irish strive to reach this goal, many eyes will be on the four members of a highly rated freshman class which is expected to contribute a great deal this year. 
Guards David Rivers and Jeff Peters, swingman • Matt Beeuwsaert and forward Gary Voce comprise this year's freshman class. This group, which was rated among the top ten recruiting classes in the nation by many publications, will add depth and some new dimensions to the Irish lineup. 
The Irish boast a strong, proven front line, but both Voce and Beeuwsaert will see their share of playing time in backup roles. Rivers brings quick­ness which has not been seen in many years at Notre Dame to the starting point guard spot, and Peters will help out with a soft outside shooting touch which has been lacking on recent Irish squads. 
"After two good groups offreshmen in a row, it was imperative to add a third one," says Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "We think we've done that. The combination of our freshmen, sophomores and juniors really gives us a good nucleus to work with the next few years." 
Rivers is the freshman who will make the most immediate contribution to the team. Showing exceptional speed and quickness along with strong ballhandling and scoring ability, he was tabbed for the starting point guard spot almost immediately. 
A native of]ersey City, N.J., Rivers averaged 24.5 points, 8. S rebounds and 7. S assists per game last year for St. Anthony's High School, and was named to many prep all-America teams. With his arrival at Notre Dame. he brings with him the ability to 
~h. 
;·~, 
continued from page 7 "Donald has played really well," says Phelps. "We
• 
need his quickness out there at times. He'll help us out 
a lot this year." 
Fellow sophomoreJohn Bowen will be counted on to give additional help in the frontcourt. Astrong rebounder, particularly on the offensive boards, Bowen, with increased confidence this season, might be ready to contribute on a regular basis. 
"I think Bowen is also showing us that he can help us," Phelps says. "A year ofexperience has really helped him as a player. john just has got to get to where he believes he can help us." 
Freshman Gary Voce also may be ready to step in at times and play an active role on the front line. Pressed into action last Saturday against St. Francis because of an injury to Kempton, Voce showed the great potential he has by scoring 1 7 points and grabbing 1 5 rebounds. 
"Voce has a lot ofpotential," says Phelps. "He is a big man who can run and shoot. What we have to work on is getting him to play more aggressively and with more consistency." 
Matt Beeuwsaert, who at 6-6 will see some action at the guard spot also, is a fundamentally sound player. He handles the ball well, shoots well and rebounds well. His consistency should earn him some playing time, and so far he has seen action in all three Irish contests to date. 
"Beeuwsaert's fortunate because he can play as a small forward and he can also play as a second guard if we need him at that position," says Phelps. "I think he has the consistency we're looking for. 
"Matt plays well on the wing, but he can still go inside ifhe has to. He's a steady ball player who doesn't make many mistakes." 
Senior Barry Spencer, on the sidelines this semester because he is academically ineligible, will add quickness to the front line once he returns next semester. Spencer is a good operator near the basket. 
The backcourt: Phelps has made it no secret that his point guard this season will be freshman David Rivers. The six-foot dynamo will be expected to run the Irish offense (see related story). 
"From the moment he arrived, David has been our point guard," Phelps says. "We've known that and have been working on getting our other players used to playing with him. So far, I've been very pleased with the job he's done. 
"But I don't think Rivers can play 40 minutes. We don't expe..-t him to play 40 minutes. That's where Danny Duffcernes in. Duffs proven what he can do and our players are used to playing with him. 
"And yet, there will be situations where we'll have Duff and Rivers playing together, like at the end ofball games," continues the Irish coach. "Ifwe're up three points with two minutes to go, I don't think you could have two better guys out there. Danny's best game is 
control a game from the point. 
"Rivers has been our starter at point guard ever since he got here," says Phelps. "We want the ball in his hands, and we've spent the time getting the rest ofthe team ready to play with him. 
"He adds a dimension I haven't seen since I've been at Notre Dame because he's a point guard who can dominate a game. He'll create a lot of things on his own. He's going to make mistakes, but the kid's going to be a super player." 
Of the four freshmen, Beeuwsaert probably is the most fundamentally sound, and he will be able to fill a lot of different roles for the Irish. Hailing from Santa Ana, Calif., he averaged 15.1 po~nts, 10.4 rebounds and six assists for Mater Dei High School, and also was named to numerous all-America squads. 
The 6-6 Beeuwsaert will see most ofhis playing time at small forward, but has the ballhandling skills to contribute at second guard also. 
"Matt will help us with his court smarts," says Phelps. "He knows what to do with the basketball, and he's capable in enough areas of the game to do a lot ofgood things. 
"He can play on the wing, and, yet, he can go inside ifhe has to. He's big, he's solid, he's well­coached and he knows the game ofbasketball." 
'The sharp-shooting Peters comes to the Irish as the least-heralded ofthe recruits, although he averaged 27.7 points and 10 rebounds in his senior season at Whitko High School in Columbia City, Ind. 
Phelps feels the 6-4 guard can contribute right away with his scoring punch. 
"We think Peters can be a big asset for us when it comes to shooting the basketball," Phelps says. "He's a steady ball player who doesn't make many mistakes, and he's really proven he can shot the ball. 
delay situations because he's a good foul shooter." 
Duff, a six-foot senior, is a good ball handler who will see his share ofaction behind Rivers. He is very good at running the half-court game for the Irish. 
joe Howard, once he's finished with football after the Aloha Bowl, will add further depth at point guard. Howard's best suit is the spark he can give the other four players out on the floor. 
"I think Howard's aggressiveness carries over to other people on the team," says Phelps. "He can create for us also, and he's got the defensive quickness to shut other people down. I just like what he does." 
At the shooting guard, sophomore Scott Hicks and juniorJoseph Price will attempt to replace the scoring void created by the graduation ofTom Sluby. Hicks has been getting most of the starting assignments so far, but Price almost always is one ofthe first players off the bench. 
"Hicks and Price both have to replace Sluby's scoring, and I think they both can," says Phelps. "Once they get in a groove and score points, it's not so much a matter ofwhich ofthem's out there. I think that both can contribute, and whichever one is hot is the guy we'll go with." 
Hicks has excellent leaping ability to go along with his good shooting touch from the outside, so he should contribute in the rebounding column as well. He plays the transition game very well and will fit in nicely with Notre Dame's style ofplay this year. Additionally, with Rivers around, Hicks shouldn't have to worry about ever making a switch over to point guard as he was forced to last year in the second half oflast season when Duffbecame academically ineligible. 
Price, counted on to help replace the outside shooting of]ohn Paxson last year, never quite lived up to pre-season expectations. A streak shooter, Price will sometimes move up to play the small forward spot. 
"Joseph didn't have a good sophomore year," says Phelps. "I think joseph would even admit to that. He had opportunities to shoot the ball and didn't. Between Hicks and Price this year, they've got to shoot it. There's no pressure on them not to shoot it -just to get it done." 
Freshman jeffPeters will be called on to bring opposing teams out ofzone defenses with his long­range shooting ability. A left·hander, as is Bowen at forward, Peters has Phelps' confidence that he can make the outside shot. 
The schedule: The Irish will play a schedule undoubtedly tougher than other Notre Dame basket­ball schedules of recent years. As this year's junior class has matured from freshmen, Phelps has upgraded the schedule accordingly. Irish fans will see less and less ofthe Lehighs and Lafayettes and more and more of the Dukes and Syracuses. 
"The power rating of our schedule will get us into 
"I think he'll be our zone-buster in a lot of situations. Our team field-goal percentage dropped 
' 
offlast year, and that's whyJeff can help us im­
prove. He also will give us that extra punch we 
need with the transition game because he gets 
down the floor very well." 

The 6-9, powerfully-built Voce comes to Notre Dame with a great deal ofpotential, which was demonstrated Saturday when he scored 17 points to lead the Irish over St. Francis. Born and raised in 
Jamaica, he never touched a basketball until the age of 13, and he still is improving at a rapid rate. 
A mobile power forward who runs the floor extremely well, Voce averaged 16 points and 10.3 rebounds at Tolentine High School in the Bronx last year, and was generally considered the best big man in New York state. 
"Gary, as a freshman, has tremendous potential, considering he has been playing basketball for only five years," says Phelps. "He's got an outside shooting touch, he's got an inside game and he's very strong physically. 
"I think the experience he's going to get going against Kempton, Barlow and Dolan is going to make him a good player. By the time he's a junior, he'll be an excellent player. But I also think he's going to help us the next two years." 
Phelps envisions some great things in the future for this freshman class as a whole. "I think this is a good freshmen class," says the Irish coach when asked to compare this year's crop to those ofpast years. "It's a very talented class with a lot of potential, and I'm very excited about this class. 
"But I can't really compare them (to previous classes) when they haven't even finished their first season. I'll answer that question when the season's over." 
No doubt, Irish fans are hoping that answer will be a positive one. 
• • • Season 
the (NCAA) tournament even ifwe have only 18, 19, 
20 wins this year," says Phelps. "Plus, I think this 
schedule will get us to where we can be a very good 
tournament team. It's a lot tougher, but we need to learn to play with consistency in back-to-back games. 
That's what the NCAA tournament is all about." 
Strengdls and weaknesses: While the Irish will play mainly a transition game with the addition of Rivers, they won't be hurt if an opponent chooses to try to slow things down. Many ofthe Notre Dame players have mastered the half-court game in recent years and could readily adjust to slow-down tactics of another team. 
Rebounding again should be another Notre Dame strong suit. The Irish outrebounded most oftheir opponents a year ago, and there's no reason why things should be any different this year as all ofthe starting frontliners return The important thing here will be for Notre Dame to rebound and run. To make the transition game work, the Irish must not only rebound the ball well, but also get it back down the court quickly. 
"We've been emphasizing the rebounding more than we ever have," says Phelps, "because it will be important for us to get the rebounds and then push the ball back the other way in a hurry. Hopefully, our strong board play of last year will continue." 
Notre Dame, unlike recent years, also will have good depth in its personnel. Although it still is a fairly young team, playing almost all juniors, sophomores and freshmen, Notre Dame is an experienced team, which will be important in all the close games the Irish figure to have. 
Perhaps the one glaring weakness in all this is the lack ofa senior player who will be out on the court on a regular basis. The effect of not having a senior starter should not be underestimated, either. 
"What I don't like about this year's team," Phelps confides, "is not having a senior that's going to be doing the things like Sluby did last year; the same thing as when we had Paxson or Tripucka, Jackson and Woolridge as seniors. 
"We'll get a good idea of what we have to get better on once we play Indiana and DePaul back-to-back, two teams that are highly ranked. Those games are always indicator games ofwhat you have to do. 
"No matter what happens in these early games, though," adds Phelps, "I still think that we're going to have a pretty good team come March if we have everyone healthy and eligible. It'll be an interesting season, that's for sure." 
If everything works out according to Phelps' plan, "interesting" will have translated into "successful" by April. But there are still a lot of"ifs" before then, and for now Phelps will take things just one game at a time starting tonight with Indiana. 


w---~....--------­
·--~ 
BASKETBALL December 4, 1984 -page 1 0 
............___ __ -­
lnsb----Extra 
NOTRE DAME VS. INDIANA 

F Jim Dolan F Donald Royal C Ken Barlow G Scott Hicks G David Rivers F Mike Giomi F Marty Simmons c Uwe Blab G Stew Robinson G Steve Alford 6-8 Jr. 6-5 So. 7-2 Sr. 6-1 Jr. 6-2 So. 
6-8  Jr.  
6-7  So.  
6-10  Jr.  
6-3  So.  
6-0  Fr.  

'>I 





These advertisers wish the Irish the best in '84-85 
f 
~---------------, 
I  CONNECTICUT CHRISTMAS  ·~ I  
I  BUS  I  
1 *Stops in Fairfield and West Hartford  1  
1 .f. $80 only ! Round Trip  1  

1 * Leaves South Bend at 7:30pm on Wed., 1 1 December 19 from the CCE 1 I * Sign-ups on Thurs., Dec. 6; 6-6:30pm at 1 
LaFortune 
J 

\ *For more information, call Tim at 1108 . 
...... , 

FIRST INTRODUCfORY FLIGHT LESSON FOR 
Regular

$25 00
• $52.00 
EXPERIENCE THE JOY OF FLIGHT 
Expires August 1985 
Michiana Regional Airport 234-6011 
t:t::=:=======================dl 
AN TOSTAL '85 
Applications for the Executive Boord choirpositions may be picked up at the Student Ac­tivities Boord office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune Student Cen­ter during office hours (9 om.­


NEW IN EFFECT 
Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to l:J from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE LEAVE 

ARRIVE ARRIVE 
NOTRE MICHIANA 

MICHIANA NOTRE

--t..;n..,.. 

ltl......·~· REGIONAL DAME
DAME REGIONAL 
BUS AIRPORT 
ARRIVE 
LEAVE 

AIRPORT BUS 
SHELTER SOUTH BEND 
O'HARE 
0 HARE 

SOUTH BEND SHELTER 
4 25 am 4 45 am 
6 DO am 
8 35 am 

11.50a m 12 05 p m 
6 25 am 6 45 am 
8 DO am 
10 45 a m 

2 DO p m 2 15 p m 
8 25 am 8 45 am 
10 DO a m 

4 10 p m 4 25 p m
12 55 p m 
10 25 a m 10 45 am 
12 DO p m 

6 20 p m 6 35 p m
3 05 p m 
12 25 p m 12 45 p m 
2 DO p m 

8 30 p m 8 45 p m
5 15 p m 
2 25 p m 2 45 p m 
4 DO p m 
7 25 p m 

1040 p m 10 55 p m 
4 25 p m 4 45 p m 
6.00 p m 

12·50 a m 1 05 a m
9 35 p m 
6 25 p m 6 45 p m 
8 DO p m 

3 DO am 315 am
11 45 p m 

SOUTH BEND ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 28. 1984 CALL FOR CO,...PLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(219) 674-6993 
OR CALL YOUR

4:30pm). All applications 
TRAVEL AGENT 

must be completed and re­·..,: turned by 4:30pm on Dec. 7th 
.--., ·' 
.• 

at the SAB office. 
9JlQ_Q_Q_Q_Q_Q Q_Q_QJ)__Q_Q_O Q_Q_Q_Q_QJ)_Q Q_Q_QJ) 0 (J_Q_Q_Q_Q_Q_Q_Q Q_Q Q_Q Q 
. ---.. ~ .. . . .... . ' .. -.
""--­



Tuesday, December 4, 1984-page 11






Sports Briefs 
Lose playoff home advantage 
Bears fall victim to Chargers, 20-7 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
Associated Press tain touchdown in the third quarter, On the possession after Payton's but atoned when he slipped past TD, luther hit Duckworth on a slant SAN DIEGO -Bobby Duckworth, defender Shaun Gayle, sprinted pattern from San Diego's 46-yard­whose third-quarter miscue looked down the left sideline and hauled in line, and the third-year pro took off 
today at 6:30p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
as ifit might cost San Diego a victory, Luther's scoring strike with 9:37 to for the goal line and an apparent go­meeting tomorrow at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will be 
sprinted 88 yards with a pass from play. ahead score. novice and varsity men must attend, and anyone else who is inter­
Ed Luther for a fourth-quarter touch­That came after Walter Payton ested also is welcome. A picture ofall members will be taken at 9:30 
down that lifted the Chargers had gone 1 0 yards for a third-quarter Near the end zone, though, Duck­
p.m. for the Christmas card.-The Observer 
toward a 20-7 National Football touchdown that gave the Bears a 7-6 worth inexplicably lost control of League triumph over the Chicago lead. Payton's run capped a 34-yard the ball and fumbled it at the 2. Bears last night. scoring drive that began when San Chicago's Mike Richardson 
Duckworth's reception gave the Diego's Farnestjackson fumbled. recovered at the 4. 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAl. CONFERENCE AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
&81 Eat 
W L T Pet. PF PA W L T Pet. PF PA 
N.Y. Giants 9 5 0 .643 275 260 x-Miami 12 2 0 .857 450 260 Washington 9 5 0 .643 367 255 New England 8 6 0 .571 329 315 Dallas 9 5 0 .643 259 250 N.Y. Jets 6 8 0 .429 290 306 St.,l ouis 8 6 0 .571 365 295 Indianapolis 4 10 0 .286 212 363 Philadelphia 5 8 1 .393 241 2n Buffalo 2 12 0 .143 212 381 
C....tral C....tral 
x-Chicago 9 5 0 .643 281 215 P1nsburgh 7 7 0 .500 351 283 Green Bay 6 8 0 .429 332 281 Cincinnati 6 8 0 .429 263 297 Detroit 4 9 1 .321 267 354 Cleveland 4 10 0 .286 203 254 Tampa Bay 4 10 0 .286 271 353 Houston 3 11 0 .214 204 383 
Minnesota 3 11 0 .214 255 395 Weet Weet y-Seattle 12 2 0 .857 397 217 San Francisco 13 1 0 . 929 405 204 y-Denver 11 3 0 .786 306 214 
L.A. Rams 9 5 0 .643 303 281 LA. Raiders 10 4 0 .714 337 263 
New Orleans 6 8 0 .429 267 334 San Diego 7 7 0 .500 360 355 Adanta 3 11 0 .214 249 349 Kansas City 6 8 0 .429 238 296 
San Diego 20, Chicago 7 
Chargers a 13-7 lead and Lee Wil­liams' 66-yard return of a pass inter­

ception with  1 : 1 S  to  play added  
insurance.  
The  Bears,  who  captured their  

first-ever NFC central Division title last week, were forced to punt 11 times and never mounted a scoring threat under the guidance of third­string quarterback Rusty Lisch, who was called upon when Steve Fuller, himself standing in for injured starter Jim McMahon, went down with a separated shoulder in the first quarter. 

Chicago fell to 9-S and hurt its chances for home field advantage in the NFC playoffs. The Bears have not had a playoff game at home since 1963. 
Duckworth, who was involved in both of the game's most exciting plays, caught three passes 18S yards as the Chargers won without the arm of first-string quarterback Dan Fouts, who was out with a groin in­jury. 
Duckworth fumbled away a cer-

Burtnett voted Big Ten Coach of the Year 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO Purdue's Leon Burtnett, who guided_ the Boiler­makers to a 7-4 record and a berth in the Peach Bowl, was named Big Ten football "Coach of the Year" yester­
day. 
Burtnett received 110 first-place votes in the poll of 190 Midwest sportswriters and broadcasters who cover Big Ten football. He compiled 41 5 points based on three points for a first-place vote, two points for second and one for third. 
Burtnett became the eighth differ­ent coach to receive the honor in the last eight years. The Boiler­makers finished with a 6-3 record and a second-place tie in the Big Ten race. 

Lou Holtz of Minnesota was second with 20 first-place votes and a total of 188 points, followed by Michigan State's George Perles with 17 firsts and 172 points, Wisconsin's Dave McClain with 16 firsts and 147 points, Iowa's Hayden Fry with 18 firsts and 134 points and champion Ohio State's Earle Bruce with 16 firsts and 99 points. 
Among Purdue's seven victories was a first-ever sweep of Notre Dame, Ohio State and Michigan. 
"All of these awards are a tribute to our entire coaching staff because they did an excellent job preparing the team to play this season," said Burtnett. "The awards are a result of the work of others. It's the entire program's award, and not just mine." 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's offke. lm:ated on the third floor of­Haggar College Center. an:epts classifieds from 12:~0 p.m. until 3 p m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. either in person or hy maiL Charge is I 0 cents per five charac·



Classifieds 
ters r dav 
STOLEN: MY BICYCLE From the back of FOR SALE PIONEER STEREO Lewis Party Room 7 pm Tues Monique MARK, YOU FROM MID·
YO YEAH 2 TOMs-NEVER DID FIND A PLACE TO Cavanaugh, Wf!d. 28th or Thurs. 29th; is RECEIVER SX450, 22WPC. GREAT Begin. former Canadian Minister d Na­DLETOWN, N.J. DOES 2~M 
DANCE:IN THE MALL I MISSED MYNOTICES an old-type cruiser, red body, white rims, COND, STEAL AT $40 CALL JIM 2n-tional Health and Welfare under Trudeau, 6M? J.C. HAMLIN 
CHANCEP. black seat. white hand grips; no fenders; 0191 discu8888 Women in Politics All welcome .......................................... C'mon, dude, give me a break, I Hve O.C. A.T .-Just how Giant are you?-An Admirer Noella TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8187 and it's my only transportation; Any info, FOR SALE: NO JACKETS AND RUGBY Ernie-Great Partyll But next time ... more HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! CALL JOE No questions asked "07-3877 SHIRTS. MAKE GREAT GIFTS. CALL fruit! ''The Roommate" JOEAT3100
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
LOST: TWO FORMAl. DATES FOR BD.L 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009 FOR SALE ONE-WAY AIRLINE TICKET ..... laugh and caH him names LIKE PICK­AND DAN; A TOTAL OF 13 FOR THE FROM NY-LAGUARDIA TO S.BEND 
LEFACEHAHAHEEHEEp.a. thank you MEN OF 4<:. WHERE DID YOU GO
TYPING Money found last week on the grass near 
AIRPORT. JAN 13. ONLY $85!1 CALL VICJU AND MARY HOPI!? IF FOUND
Jackie Boggs Memorial Ubrary. Call 283-1904 if you H8ve a comp181nt? 
MAUREEN 2666 LISTEN UP EVERYBODY, ESPECIALLY 
PLEASE CAll17"
684-8793 want to claim it. 

THE LADIES. Today, December 4th is OBUD GAIPE NIGHT
········································ ...................... 
FOR SALE: Reduced-fare round-trip JAMES "the Richard Gere look a like" air1ine ticket -open destination continen­
Thordahl's 19th birthday. He would ~ke WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES Hey y'alllrom Arkansas. how about a get
tal US. Must be used by Jan. 8. Call287-nothing less than a simple Happy Birthday 
27NI045 together with fellow Arkanuns? Call
2592. call at 4076. 
4:45 TDI:45 PM
PICKUP AND DEUVERY [ WANTED Anne at 1260 or JiU at 3687 for more Info. 
Dear Indebted Domer:Ever Hear Of A
Is it true you can buy jeepsfor $44 through BALLOON~RAMS ON SALE AT X­SOUTH DINING HALL 
State School? Lc:we Ted.
the U.S. govemment?Getthefactstoday! MAS BAZAAR LEMANS LOBBY AT Cal11-312-742-1142 ext 7316. ROOMMATE WANTED CASTLE POINT FINANCE CLUB BOOTH APTS. CALL MIKE 277-6463 
TICKETS 

WPRLD HUNGER COAUTION: geMnll TAKE THE BUS!!! THE BUFFALO BUS! 
rnwtlng 8nd chcueelon on the prob­
will share my luxery townhouse with two TAKE THE BUS II Call Greg x4115 
lema feeing Africa. TUESDAY, DEC. 4, respnsible/trustworthy/ freincly male stu­INEED INDIANA TIXS.272«106
LOST/FOUND I 8.p.m. Center f« Socl8l eonc:.m. St. Edward's HaH celebra1es
dents for next term. 7 min. walk to main CHPISTMAS AT THE ALOHA BOWL
campus. call len 272-8582 after Spm. tor MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS: For sale in 
PITTS8URGH a.ua CHRISTMAS BUS Watch lor announcements and invita­inte!View. 
room204 Walshor319Farley. $6 eech or
Signupa, LaFortune Little '"'-'-thla tions ... 
2for $10. 
I FOUND A NICE RING AT THE BARS PERSONALS Sundlly at 7 p.m. $45 round trip, $30 THURS. 11/1S. CALL ALAN AT 3267 TO one way. Two bu._, Tuea. and Weds. Dear B ·Goddess: Thankslor general IDENTIFY. ing 801118 bacly needed ner\IOU8 -gy
ATTENTION GROUPIE CLUB! Be sure
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL MARCI-Happy half-Birthday! You 'H be le­this ~-(You're beeutilul. don't
DRIVE TO SEATTLE FOR HOLIDAYS! to congratulate Cindy on her promotion to Lost: Light brown cassette caae in or near 234-()363. 24 hour hotlinellree preg­gal in 6 monlhs! Lc:we ya, Chris, Sha-on & change--let's do lunch!) Regards, A Spaz 
I'VE GOT THE CAR. YOU SUPPLY STAFF REPORTER. Yes, your favorite 
nancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE AllisonD-2 student lot on 11/19 I can identify 
DRIVER(S) AND GAS. FOR MORE IN­writer has taken one more step in her jour­
CENTER

contents d the case Please return. Toledo... I 'I do it!!
FORMATION, WRITE T. REID, 5015 ney to journalistic stardom. 
REWARD. C8111382 Let's surprise them. Four kege? Yehl Gret 
36TH AVENUE, NE, SEATTLE, WA 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR, 
and Putty, nice grocery trick. Judy, you're
981 05 OR CALL (206)524-4567. In~ of.••
WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN-UPSCARRY OUT 'l1L 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE 
LOST: ONE GREEN 1.0. FOLDER WITH an initi•ted r08d tripper. Cindy, how's
An understanding d Noire Dame women.
THURS 12/6 -7PM • 2ND FLOOR
I.D., DETEX, PA LICENSE. AND MAS­BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. RQSS? Sorry, no Bruce. Andi, I C811'1
RIDE NEEDED: Need ride to Upstate I need more than l..llonard Nimoy's help 
LAFORTUNE LVS: WED 12/19-COST:
TERCARD. THESE ITEMS OF EX­believe you're here! Incredible 8 hours.
New York ( Syracuse or Albany area) can $65 ROUND TRIP on this mystery of the unlv811e. 
TREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE WERE DECEMBER 1185 OAADUATES: REG­girts! Let's go back soon. loYe, Otter. 
leave Wedneeday December 19 at noon. 
ISTER FOR SPRING SEMESTER I~QUITE STUPIDLY LOST ON MONDAY, 
caH Brendan at 2275. HARRY HORMONE, HARRY
TERVIEWS FROM DECE..ER 3-7.
NOV 25 AT LUNCHTIME INC LINE OF 
HORMONE...HOW ARE YOU? HOW
CAREER AND PLACEMENT SOPHOMORES • X·MAS PARTY!!!
NORTH DINING HALL, OR EN ROUTE ARE YOU??? HORNY AS ALL, HORNY
TO BADIN HAI.L IF FOUND, PLEASE, SERVICES, MEMORIAL UBAAAY. Thursday Dec. 6, 5:30 -8:30 Starting at BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS BIG
Need ride to New Orteans for Christmas AS ALL ...BUT WHAT ELSE IS NEW???
................................................................ LaFortune: Watch "The Grinch", take a BROTHERS!ltiG SISTERS BIG BROT­
OH PLEASE CALL LEANNE MICHELLE Break. Can leave anytime alter Decem­
AT X3622 OR COME BY 232 BADIN SENIORS, SENORS: HAND IN ride on a horae-driven sleigl! FREE AD­HERS/BIG SISTERS BIG BROT·
ber 20. Call Paul COLLECT at (312)388· 
HALL. YOUR COMPLIANCE IS VERY 6458. PROFILES FOR INVITATIONAL INTER· MISSION!!!! HERS/BIG SISTERS Christmas Party ­MUCH APPRECIATED!! LOVE, VIEWS FROM JAN. 28-FEB. 15 Andrew "Meet" Reinhart -Happy 21st This Friday, 5:30 to 8:00. at Senior Bar LEANNE FELLIN. DURING WEEK OF DEC. 3. CAREER birthday! Please call ua. Once the rockets go up,
WANTED: SOMEONE TO STAY WITH 
AND PlACEMENT SERVICES. Signed, o that is not my department,
AN ELDERLY WOMAN DURING THE The Women c:A Notre Dame said Wilkins VonBraun. 
CHRISTMAS BREAK. INFO CALL: 233­YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY ANDLOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME BACKPACK 4670 ARE WORTH THE WORLD
IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL THE . .............. ············· ···········••·•••• 
THE WOMEN OF N.D. CALENDAR onFRIDAY BEFORE THE PENN STATE WANTED : Garage spacefor rent clo8e to Pookasays:
You said it, Aunt Harriet. sale TODAY with the following Women
GAME. IT HAS MY CALCULATOR, CAL­campus. Call J.A. 2012 
"I love my house becuase my parents

promoting the calendarat these locations: 
CULUS BOOK, AND TWO feed me drugs lor breakfast"
Whatevar happerlfKI 10 David Cassidy? Flanner-Suzy Lee 10:30-12:00 Front 
NOTEBOOKS. IF YOU MISTAKENLY 
50s! off
Keenan/Stanford-Maria CervantesPICKED IT UP, PLEASE CALL BETSY 
To the St. Ed's ~Miers who I ran into be­10:30-12:00 Lobby
AT2804 Mary Hess. is your sink stil there?
FOR SALE tween Zahm and St. Ed's who told me to St. Ed's-Patti Tripathi 10:30-12:00 Lobby viait(this was Friday night before Thanks­Alumni-Susan Hayes 11:0Q-t2:00 Front 
FOUND: 1 HUMPTY DUMPTY 
giving) Who are you guys anyway and Morrissey-Esta Milford 1O:OQ-11 :30 Send a Christmas STUFFED ANIMAL IN VERY POOR 
where do you live? Sincerely, the gir1 in Lobby where was the concett torCONDITION,OUTSIDE PASO. EAST. 
the mini. Bangladesh anyway, Ruth? personal to a good 
LOOKS LOST AND BEWlLDERED AND SEEKING OWNER IF HE'S YOURS friend.
FOR SALE: 

Santa can't deliver my presents to Notre CATHERINE MEET ME UNDER THE
CONTACT PATTY RILEY AT 4568. 
72SkyWII Dame so I NEED A AIDE TO NEW JER­MISTLETOE FRIDAY NIGHT. SEE YOU Jenny, Body: Poor Engine: Good SEY FOR CHAISTMAS BREAK. II you THEN. SCOTT Happy belated 21st! How oould I forget FOUND : BASKETBALL TICKETS CALL 
Just bring in this
$500or beet on. can give me• ride c811..,...M1333. your big day after so many yeers?1073 Jfllf 288-2042 ......................................._......._........_..... DAD, HAPPY BIRTHDAY -late from (Actu811y, I Mnled 10 IT18ke sure that you 
coupon and receive 50 
I've got a date with Santa !of Chn.tma your first Domer I LOVE YOU were lOber when you rMd this.) 
cents off your next 
and I don't WW'It 1o stand him up, so help M.E. 
classified ad order.
rOUND -P8ir d 11ki glovea in South me and the jolty old etl get together in St. Dining Hal. -Umbrella in front d L.itnly. lor sale! 76'VW RABBIT greet CXJnCitions Louis If you C8l1 give me a ride there for 
One coupon per order 
Call232-0660 to identify. Aak f«John T. tor info call 1459 Christmu breU cal Maureen at1333. ALOHA ALOHA ALOHA!! Want 10 go to BOSTON ClUB BREAK BUS-Going to 
(order includes total 
the Bowl G.me? Umited ~nbw(30) d Boeton lor ChrislrnM BfMk. LMving on 
days ad is to run).
LOST-room & cer keyl on a BUD­Things -e r..ty atarting 10 come ~ round-trip tiduttll availllble lor $325.00. Dec. 19 at 6:30 pm and rellmling on Jan. WEISER key chain Q1 between South MUST SELL!!! THREE-WAY PIONEER gether in my Nfe... Wlllleeve O'twe Dec. 27. and will ratum 14. Price it $100 round trip. Signu~ we IHurry! Offer expires Dining H-'1 & Dilon if found pleue cal BOOKSHELF SPEAKERS 80 WPC, $90 Then Gr; Gutting had ua reAd Jan. 2. If inwe.tec~. call FIWlkie at 239-ThUI'Iday Dec. 6 at 7:00pm In LaFonune. December 12, 1984. 1778-Thanks! CALL JIM 2n-{)191 Nietzsdle ..... 5627. I'm eMieatiO rllllch aftel11 :00 pm. $50~ mandatory. 
coupon .... coupon .... coupon 


--~~--------------------------------------------.-----~------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, December 4, 1984 -page 12 

Men's swimming team opens with ND Relays, Western Ontario wins 
By TIIERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team opened its 1984-85 season over the weekend with a pair of im­pressive showings in the 20th an­nual Notre Dame Relays on Friday and its opening dual meet against Western Ontario. 
Saturday the Irish hosted Western 
Ontario and, on the strength of a lot 
of solid performances from the vet­
erans and some impressive 
showings by a few freshmen, had a 
surprisingly easy time with the 
Canadian representatives. 
Notre Dame won the meet 70-42, 
led by three swimmers who were 
double winners. 
Senior co-captain Tim Bohdan won the 1000-yard free with a time of 10:39.5 and posted his second first-place finish in the 1 00-yard free, ending with a time of 49.7 
Senior Mike Kennedy led an Irish 
sweep of the diving competition, 
grabbing first place in both the one­
and three-meter events, scoring 
230.10 and 227.20 points, respectively. Fellow senior Rich Yohon placed second in both diving events. 
The third double winner was .Notre Dame's other co-captain, Brian Casey. 

Casey won the 200-yard butterfly Relays on Friday. 
with a 2:00.8 time. He also joined 
Paul Benz, Blaise Harding and John 
Coffey to take a victory in the 400­
yard medley relay to open the meet. 
The relay's time of 3:45.6 was only 
one-tenth ofa second faster than the 
team from Western Ontario, earning 
the Irish an early lead in the meet. 
"Winning the first relay really 

helped," said coach Dennis Stark. "It gave us some momentum early in the meet to start from." 
The Irish also had three swimmers wind up with a first and second place to their credit. 
Steve Coffey was victorious in the 500-yard free with a 5:07.8 time. He also placed second behind Bohdan in the 1000-yard free. 
Harding and Benz, in addtion to their relay win, also posted a second-place finish -Harding in the 200­yard I.M. and Benz in the 200-yard backstroke. 
MarkJensen had an individual win 
in the 50-yard free to round out the 
Notre Dame winners. 

"I was pleased with the showing of the new members of the team," Stark said, "and the team as a whole has been improving their times. We're not that strong in the freestyle sprints, but a few people have shown they can help." 
The Irish managed a tie with Illinois-Chicago in the Notre Dame 
Both teams finished with 104 points, followed by Xavier with 52, Butler with SO, Wabash with 42 and Valparaiso tallying 24. 
Notre Dame, the defecting cham­pions, led the Flames 74-62 before the diving, but UIC won the last three events, with the Irish taking second each time, to bring about the tie. 
Four Notre Dame relay teams won their events. The team ofJeff Grace, Jensen, Dennis Fitzsimons and Dowd opened the meet with a vic­tory in the 200-yard free relay in 1:30.7. 
The 400-yard I.M. team of Chris Green, Steve Coffey, Harding and Bohdan won with a time of 3:50.3. Benz,Joe Ridgeway,John Coffey and Bohdan also won, finishing with a 
1:43.5 time in the 200-yard back­stroke relay. 
The final Irish victory came in the 200-yard butterfly relay. the team of Casey, Grace, Jensen and Benz won the race in 1:40.3. 
"Hopefully the good start we have had will give us on positive outlook on our upcoming meets," Stark con­eluded. 
The men's swimming team con­tinues its dual-meet season on Wednesday, hosting Bowling Green at 7 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial 
,. Pool. 

Gain revenge over Ontario 
Women overwhelm weekend foes 
class of promising freshmen. Coc­
hiolo tied the pool record with her 
first-place time of 1:11.70 in the 
1 00-yard breastroke race and set a 
new record of 2:35.70 in the 200­
yard breastroke. 
Sophomore Suzanne Devine es­
tablished a new meet record at 
1:01.1 in the 100 yard butterfly. Her leg in the 400-yard medley relay helped her team set new pool and meet records at 4:14.76. 
Freshman diver Andrea Bonny broke two varsity records in the one-and three-meter dives while freshman Amy Darlington took first place in the 1 00-and 200-yard freestyle races. 
Tommorow at 4 p.m., the Irish play host to Bowling Green State University as the team hopes to avenge last year's 89-51 loss to the Falcons. 
"You always hope for momen­tum," explained Stark. "You might get it in a particular meet, but not from meet to meet, so you must plan your attack accordingly." 
The spark started this weekend may provide the Irish with the mo­mentum they need to defeat one of the toughest teams on their schedule. 
lbe Ob~rver/C.haitanya hnchal 
Blaise Harding prepares to start his leg of a relay in the Notre Dame Relay meet on Friday, while Tim Bohdan (standing) and Chris Green (sitting) look on. The Irish men's swimming team started its season offon a good note over the weekend with a pair ofvictories. The women's team likewisehad two weekend wins. See related stories on this page. 
Philadelphia Club 
Bas 
$70 Round trip ! 
Leaves ND December 19 

Sign-ups wed., Dec. 5 ~ 
8 p.m. LaFortune ~1~ 
General meeting for those interested in helping with the 
Multiple Sclerosis Fund Drive 
Taes., Dec. 4th 7·8pm Little Theatre, LaFortune 
Help Notre Dame win afree 
M1Vconcerti 
~----...............--Everyone Welcome! ------­
\ 
I -~ 
' ' 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim­ming season took off to an impres­sive start this weekend as the team overpowered a field of six teams in the Notre Dame Relays and later defeated Western Ontario Univer­sity, 81-57, in its first dual meet of the year. 
The Irish led the pack in Friday af­ternoon's debut of the Notre Dame Relays in the Rockne Memorial Pool, tallying 122 points. Butler Univer­sity finished a distant second with 82 points, followed by the University of Illinois-Chicago with 68 points. Saint Mary's College took fourth place, scoring 42 points, while Xavier University and Valparaiso University rounded out the compe­tition. 
Notre Dame dropped only one first place finish on Friday, racing Butler University for a close second place finish in the 200-yard freestyle relay. 
"lt was a good showing," said junior co-captain Venette Cochiolo. "It gave us a chance to chance to see teams we normally wouldn't see un­

til we met them in the regular season." Since the men's squad used tl' e. 
Notre Dame Relays to start its season for the past 20 years, head coach Dennis Stark decided a similar pre­season event would help the wo­men's team face its regular season. After the team's strong showing on 
Friday,  team  members  hope  the  
Relays  will  be  continued  in  the  
future.  

"It's the relaxed way to start the season and we want to start a tradi­tion like the guys," explained Coc­hiolo. "It was a boost to have won the Relays, especially for the first year swimmers." 

The spirit generated at the Relays helped guide the Irish to their dual meet victory as they swam past a tough squad from Western Ontario University on Saturday morning. Last year, the Irish lost to the Canadians by a 30-point margin. This year, it was a di1ferent story. 
"We surprised them," said Stark. "They didn't think we were that strong. It was a good win for us." 
The Irish came into this meet with their returning veterans in better condition than in past seasons and a 
\ Record set at Saint Mary's Swim-a-thon 
By KATIILEEN NICHOLSON 
Sports Writer 
This past Saturday, 17 members of the Saint Mary's Aqua Club, attempt­ing to establish a women's swim­ming relay world re~ord, swam a total of 25 miles in the first club­sponsored Swim-a-thon held at the Regina Pool. 
The newly formed club, composed largely of Saint Mary's varsity swimmers, completed its swim in a record time of8 hours, 26 minutes, and 3 7 seconds. The club members entered the water Satur­day morning at 10 a.m. in hopes of setting a new Guinness World record and raising funds for next se­mester's club activities. 
With both objectives met, the club turned over a portion of the proceeds raised to the Swimming Hall of Fame. Official observers of the record-breaking event were Scott Trees, former Saint Mary's coach, and Dan Flynn, the current women's coach. 

The Saint Mary's swim team began their Swim-a-thon on Saturday after their first collegiate competition on Friday in the Notre Dame Relays. 
The women, under the new direc­tion offormer Notre Dame swimmer Dan Flynn, placed fourth in a field of six teams. The host of the relays, Notre Dame won the competition with a total of 122 points while the Belles scored 42 points, out­swimming both Xavier and Val­paraiso. 
The Belles will begin their dual meet season this Saturday as they travel to Valparaiso University to square off against the Crusaders once again. 

SENIORS • TAKE A CHANCE Learn, Grow, Give and Love 
for more info: 
Mary Ann Roemer M.J. Murray Center for Social Associate Office Concerns 
239-5521 239-7949 
HOLVCROSS ASSOCIATES 

ifl Application Deadline· February 1st $i?JI 
' 

The Observer Tuesday, December 4, 1984-page 13 ­
Aloha Bowl Tickets . I ! 
on sale today through Friday at ACC ticket office from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. each day 
One ticket per ID, up to four I D's 
Cost: $15 per ticket 
P-E team to beat 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
')p(Jr/s Writer 
Over the weekend, the Saint Mary's basketball team took part in the Goshen College Basketball Clas­sic where Defiance College and Franklin College handed the Belles their second and third losses of the season by the scores of 81-57 and 83-63, respectively. 
On Friday night against Defiance, Saint Mary's stayed with its op­pon~nt throughout the first half of play· and was only trailing by two baskets-38-34 at the midway point ofthe game. 
Inconsistencies, however, plagued the Belles in the second half ofaction. 
Women's inter hall begins action 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY 
Sports Writer 
The football season is over and the 
basketball season is shaping up as a 
battle between old rivals. Tradi­
tional powers will again rise to the 
top of the standings. Fans can expect 
to see fast-paced, run-and-gun offen­
ses as well as more traditional styles, 
with emphasis on hard-nosed inside 
play. Last year's champion will have 
difficulty repeating. Some new faces 
could make the difference for a 
darkhorse. 
What is this -hasn't Sports Il­
lustrated already finish <1 its basket­
ball preview? Yes, •1t they 
overlooked women's intcrhall bas­
ketball at Notre Dame, where you'll 
find everything described above and 
more. 
After the first week of action, the team to beat is Pasquerilla East. In a rematch of last year's finalists, P-E defeated defending champion Farley 33-22. P-E returns all five starters, in­cluding their imposing front line of Susan Hayes, Reggie Richter, and Leslie Heineman. 
Heineman feels that Farley's vic­tory in the flag football champion­ship gave P-E extra incentive. "We were ready to get some revenge," Heineman said. "Everyone was fired up." 
Breen-Phillips' A-team should challenge P-E for the top spot. With 
Belles lose two straight in Goshen Basketball Classic over weekend 
three former varsity players on the Two years ago, Lyons won only 
roster ( Dava Newman, Lisa Brown, one game. That changed last year 
and Janice Monagle), B-P will have when, according to captain 
the best backcourt in the league. Gretchen Grieb, "We started to take 
Center Kathleen Hunter and for­the game more seriously." Two ward Lisa Ehrhardt provide power players also transferred in from inside. 'lbey, too, are looking for­Lewis to help the cause. Top player ward to playing traditional rival Far­Nancy Fitzpatrick keys the Lyons at­ley, a game which promises to be tack. On Sunday, they beat Farley B. less than neighborly. B-P beat Walsh The rest of the league will on Sunday. scramble to finish as high as possi­
Lewis A, led by Katie Cavanaugh ble. Ofthese teams, Walsh is the big­and Kathy Immonen, is trying to gest threat to upset one of the top regain the form that brought them a five. Badin, B-P B, Farley B, P-W, and championship two years ago. Their Lewis B will also look toplay the role style will be strictly run-and-gun. of spoiler. But, as Katie Donohoe of 
"We don't have height so we rely on B-P B admits, "Our major objective quickness," says Immonen. Lewis A is to have fun." beat Lewis Bon Sunday. The women's interhall basketball 
With everyone gunning for them, kague will provide thrills, spills, and 
Farley will find it hard to repeat as fast-paced action for the next three champions. Farley captain Tricia months. Catch a game ifyou get the Booker and her team has proven in chance. Even Sports Illustrated can the past that it can win. make a mistake. 
"We just couldn'.{ get it going. We were incon~i~tent. In the second half Defiance played ext:ellent. They were the best team we've run into this season," said Coach Marvin \X'ood. 
Unfortunately, Saint Mary's may have lost more than the game Friday. Senior center Betsy Ebert suffered a badly sprained ankle and may be out ofaction for the remainder ofthe se­mester. Sophomore guard Kris Pan­telleria broke her nose, but was able to bounce back and play in Satur­day's game with Franklin. 
Leading the Belles in scoring against Defiance were senior for­ward Elaine Suess with 1 5 points while Pantelleria added 1 1 points before sustaining her injury. 
In Saturday's matchup with Franklin, Saint Mary's led most ofthe way, and this time they held a 38-34 halftime advantage. 
"We made good choices of­
fcnsively and shot 53 percent from the fidd in the first half," com­mented Wood. "We also had great hustle and help defensively." 
Howt""ver, the tide turned for the Belles in the second half. Saint Mary's only hit on 33 percent of its field goal attempts while Franklin cashed in on 60 percent ofits shots. 
"We just ran out of gas late in second half," said the Saint Mary's coach. 
Junior forward Beth Kreber and Pantelleria paced the Belles offen­sive efforts with 12 points a piece. 
"We hope to go out and put two good halves together," said Wood. "Size has been a problem for us all year. But our girls give their best ef. fort." 
Saint Mary's will get a chance to improve on its 1-3 record tonight when they travel to Hope College in Holland, Mich. for a 7 p.m. contest. 
. Georgetown heads list in AP Top Twenty poll 
Assoclated Press which won its own joe Lapchick Memorial Tournament for the 1Oth­
Georgetown, who defeated a pair consecutive year, remained third of non-Division I foes this week for with 932 points, just one point in its 3-0 record, remained atop the front of Duke, 3-0, which received Associated Press Top Twentyyester­the otherfirst-place vote. day. The top seven teams remained intact from last week. 
Memphis State rounded out theGeorgetown beat Hawaii Loa 74­top five with 853 points, one more45 last Monday to end a season­
than No. 6 Louisville, 2-0, which lost
opening trip to Hawaii and defeated the services of starting guard MiltSouthern Connecticut 80-46 on Sat-
Wagner for six weeks when he suf­urday. 
fered a broken right foot in their 67­
DePaul, 2-0, which blasted UCLA 
55 victory over Virginia80-61 on national television Satur-
Commonwealth. Illinois, 5-1, day, received two first-place votes remained seventh after their 73-70 and 1,049 points. St. John's, 2-0, nationally televised victory over 
.------------------------------------------., Oklahoma on Saturday.

Sports Menu 
Basketball:· lnterhall Hockey: 
Notre Dame men vs. Indiana, 7 p.m. Flanner vs. Keenan, at ACC 11:45 p.m. at ACC Ice Rink Saint Mary's at Hope College 
After your last exam, whattoughquestions will you stillbe facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 

Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation Director 
Bo• 541 

Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 

JUNIOR Class Ski Weekend To Sugar LoafMountain Weekend ofJan. 25-27 2jull days ofskiing, w nights at the park Place Hotel. Round trip transportation & wine and cheese party! Cost is $82.00. $25.00 Deposit due by Dec.7th. 
Sign-ups: Dec. 3rd -4th, 7:00pm Lafortune Info. desk. or call John Spatz at 283-1150 

NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available...Winter semester...convenient ...spacious...Laundry facilities ...plentiful parking...superior maintenence... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: (219) 234-6647 
Southern Methodist, 1-0, and Washington, 2-0, switched places from last week's poll, while North Carolina State, 2-0, which was 11th last week, rounded out the Top Ten. 
The Second Ten this week is: Indiana, Syracuse, Louisiana State, Virginia Tech, Georgia Tech, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Alabama­Birmingham, Kansas and Nevada-Las Vegas. 
Arkansas, 2-1, which lost to Ohio State 85-84 on Saturday was the only team to fall from the Top Twenty. 
Oklahoma, 2-2 fell from lOth to 17th despite the fact that both ofthe Sooners' losses have come at the hands of No. 7 Illinois. The teams met in the annual Tip-Off Classic in Springfield, Mass. on Nov. 18 when the Fighting Illini prevailed 81-64. The teams met again Saturday in Champaign, Ill. 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll. with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents areitalicized. 
1. Georgetown(55) 3-Q 1,157 
2. DePaul (2) 2-Q 1,049 
3. St. John's 2-o 932 
4. Duke (1) 3-Q g:j1 
5. Memphis St. 2-Q 853 6. Louisville 2-o 852 7. llli nois 5-1 822 8. So. Methodist 1-Q 715 
9. Washington 2-o 687 
10. N. Carolina St. 2-Q 570 11. Indiana 1·1 475 12. Syracuae 1-Q 444 
13. LooiSiana St. 2-0 402 14. Virginia Tech 2-o 3n 
15. Georgia Tech ~ 325 16. North Carolina 2-o 304 17. Oklahoma 2-2 298 18. Ala.-Blrmingham 4-1 210 19. Kansas 3-1 190 20. Nev.-Las Vegas 1·1 115 

you have to do defensively: pressure 
------~-~----
-----~~----------------------------... ... 
The Observer Tuesday, December 4, 1984 -page 14 
"The concern I've had is we games. season, leads the team in scoring. In haven't been healthy yet with "I've never had a front court shoot addition to her average of 12.7
Hoosiers Split 
like this one has," said DiStanislao of points per game, the 5-10 seniorKempton, Barlow, and Dolan continuedfrom page 16 her big three. "Even during my days adds 5.7 rebounds per game. Musky
continuedfrom page 16 playing, and that's our best front 
The Wolverines came out sizzling at Northwestern I can't remember a is joined in the frontcourt by 6-0line," Phelps indicated. "We've gotto get us going well. Another night it in the second half, outscoring the time when our frontline was this sophomore forward Brenda 
\.~-'. will be another five guys." to have that, and that's one of the in­consistent. Goldner (7.3 points and 8.0\~ Irish 34-1 5 in the first 12 minutes to
consistencies I'm worried about."

'· The trademark of all Knight­
...,,, turn a five-point deficit into a 14-"But at this point we really need rebounds per game) and 6-0 senior 
coached Indiana teams has been a

.\\\ "The other inconsistency is going point lead. Rebounding woes some support from our guards. That center Amy Sutton ( 4.3 points and 
great man-to-man defense. This 

to be playing in games like this week resumed for Notre Dame, as they will come from decreasing the num­5.7 rebounds). defense has led the Hoosiers to two 
-·'-; with Indiana and DePaul (on Satur­were beaten on the boards by a 31-ber of turnovers we have, while in­Leading the Broncos' backcourt is
NCAA titles, and NIT championship, day) where I really value having a 23 margin, with no individual grab­creasing the number of assists we 
5-6 sophomore point guard Tracy
seven Big Ten titles, and a 297-94 senior who is a take-charge guy," 
bing more than three rebounds. get and making our oppponent's Wells ( 11.7 points per contest),
,... 
record in Knight's 13 years at Phelps said. "This is something we guards less effective."
Bates was one of the few bright who sparks the offense with her /" Indiana. However, this year's team have yet to have as far as an identity, spots for the Irish, scoring 22 points, Tomorrow night's game will pro­penetrating ability and outsidehas been plagued by poor defense. and right now we're playing two while Keys added 17 and Botham vide the Irish with a serious chal­shooting. Joining Wells in the West­"Defensively, I don't think there is
'i teams that are ranked and this is 
\ 12. But while the front-line trio con­lenge, as Western Michigan fields a ern Michigan backcourt is 5-9 soph­
any particular thing we do well,"

' what's going to surface." 
tinued to provide offensive punch, squad with 11 returning letter win­omore Shally Klare ( 6.7 points perKnight stated. "There are five things The Irish have the potential to go the backcourt continued to lag be­ners from last year's 13-12 squad. game). 
a long way this year because of their hind. Bates, Keys, and Botham have CoachJim Hess' team has managed a Following tomorrow night's
the ball, pressure the passing lanes, fine rebounding and new running of­hit on a combined 52 percent of 1-2 record this season, beating Mic­game, the Irish take on the Hoyas of
take away cuts, know where the ball fense. However, the game against their shots this season for a group higan, 60-57, but losing to Louisville, Georgetown University Saturday af­is and block out. I don't think there Indiana will be the team's first true average of44 points per game, while 92-83, and Wisconsin, 61-52. ternoon at 2 p.m., before heading

is'any one of those five things we do test and a good indicator of the the guards have connected on just Forward Vicky Musky, a Mid­back out on the road to take on Nor­
really well. And for us to be good, team's strength. 27 percent of their shots in four American all-conference pick last thern Illinois next week.

we've got to first of all be a good de­
fensive team." 
"I think Indiana is a good team," said Phelps. "Their freshmen class is good, and their loss against Louis­ville is no indication of how good they will be against Notre Dame." 
Indiana began the year as the fourth-ranked team in the country, but lost its opening game to the Louisville Cardinals by a 75-64 score. The Hoosiers bounced back to defeat Ohio University last Satur­day by a 90-73. 
Tim Kempton, who sprained his ankle against Northwestern, is listed as doubtful for the game. Phelps in­dicated that he won't know until game time whether or not Kempton can play because the ankle isn't to­tally recovered yet. 
Jim Dolan, who has sat out the three regular season games after he hurt his shoulder against Yugoslavia, will start in place of Kempton. The other four starters will be the same as the previous games: Ken Barlow, Donald Royal, Scott Hicks, and Dave Rivers. 
Phelps has several concerns about the game against Indiana, and other national caliber teams. 

,:;. 
' 

Irish 
continuedfrom page 16

.. 
''· 

haven't caught onto the techniques. It's a whole new system, and eventu­ally they'll learn," says McCann. "When I came here, they we're dis­couraged. They came into a situa­tion where they weren't developing, and they got discouraged, and therefore they developed bad habits. 
"We're making strides. I definitely feel we've improved," continues McCann. "Our attitude is so much better. If you don't have an attitude you might as well forget it." 
The ex-Indiana State coach also face the problem ofnot really having a team leader. 
"Yes, we're having a hard time fin­ding a leader," says McCann. "Everyone is working together on the system. We don't have a take charge-type guy. They're all star struck (when they practice). They don't have anyone to identify with because it's new for everyone. 


in touch with your family. Without the r -------------,
The wrestlers' next action is when 

hassle of calling collect, fumbling for GO THE AT&T CAU ME CARD.
I

spare change or paying for the call. THE BEST WAY TO CAU HOME.
theytravel to the Muskegon, Mich., 



Open this weekend. 

(~ 
Thanks to you ... it works ... for 
ALL 

OF US 


And since you can only call home 
I WHEN YOU'RE AWAY FROM HOME. 
with the CALL ME Card, Mom and 
I Calli 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 50 to have a
Dad don't mind picking up the tab. 
CALL ME Card application sent to your
I 

parents. Or complete and return this form
GET ACLUE. 
I to AT&T College Promotions, P.O. BoxGO THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. 49466, Atlanta, GA 30359.
I 

So don't let life's unexpectedWhen you were a child, remem­roadblocks throw you off track. Call I Your Parents' Name ber how you were supposed to be home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. l Address 
seen and not heard? Now that you're And let the folks know you still have 
I

in college, being heard and not seen City/State/Ziv
plenty of driving ambition. ( )
has certain distinct advantages. Don't have an AT&T CALL ME I 
Parents' Phone No.If by chance your forward motion Card yet? Mail the coupon at right to I 
comes to a grinding halt, you can still AT&T and we'll send an application Your Namt'(O Mr./0 Ms.)
I

get through in another way. Call home to your parents. Or phone: 
Colleg~

home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. I 
(h~ck Class: 0 Fr. OSoph. 0 Jr. 0 Sr. 0 Grad. Q
The quick and convenient way to get 1800 CALL An, Ext. 50. L 
-----------~ 



ATs.T 





Tuesday, December 4, 1984 -page 15 

Doonesbury 



Bloom County Berke Breathed 
The Daily Crossw-ord 
ACROSS  33 Solves  61 Succulent plant  
1 Fedora and  35 Made beer  62 Atoll substance  
cloche  37 Northern  63 Powder base  
5 Iowa colony  European  64 Stringed  
10 Arab land  39 Customary  instrument  
65 Vatican  

Garry Trudeau 
u·~ ON-Y60TAIJOUT NINE USTENCRS AT 
7HIS HOU~, 50 PRO­GRAMMING 7ENP5 70 BE Aume UXJSe. 
(J(WWCJ<.!' 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Now just hold your horses, everyone .... Let's let it run for a minute or sa and see If It gets any calder." 
7 Love greatly 8 Most pleasant 9 Excellent 
10 Appointed to the ministry 11 Pilgrim vessel 
12 To­
(precisely) 13 Loch­21 Listen to 

43 Fabulous birds 56 Religious 
45 European groups 
48 Forbid 57 Good review 
50 Separated by 58 "I cannot tell -" class 60 WWII Gr. 
52 Healed resistance 
54 Coronet movement 
55 A Stevenson 62 Auditor's abbr. 
Monday's Solution 
LA5TN16HT UH ..THANKS. 7HtaEANII6 HI. ()(JJ THEJ?E, LAPY()tpAN 
711/S IS .. HOUR a:8/PJJ 
I 
Campus 
•12 
-1 p.m. -Kellogg lnsdtute Workshop (Brown Bag), "Small Countries and Their Adjust­ment, to International Economy," Dr. Istvan Dobozi, 131 Decio Hall. 

•1:30 
p.m. -Ladies of Notre Dame Christmas Tea , SMC Stapleton Lounge. 

•3-7 
p.m.-Carnival of Careers, Angela Athletic Facility, Sponsored by SMC Student Govy/Counseling & Career Development Center. 

•3:30 
p.m.-CivU Engineering Research Semi­oar, "Finite Elements for the Nonlinear Analysis of Shell Structures," Prof. Nicholas Carpenter, Northwestern University, Room 224 Cushing Hall. 

•
3:30p.m. -Chem. Engineering Graduate Sem­inar , "Silver/Gold-Supported Catalysts," Rafael Herrera-Najera, ND Graduate Student and "Chemical Reaction Engineering," Jeffrey Brown, ND Graduate Student, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Dept. Seminar, "Soma­Clonal Variation in Crop Plants," Dr. B.S. Ah­loowalia, Plant Breeding Institue, Carlow, Ireland, Room 278 Galvin. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Dept. Lecture, "Modification of Function of Phage T-5 DNA Polymerase," Dr. Robert K. Fujimura, Oakridge Na­tional Laboratory, Room 127 Nieuwland. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Madrigal Dinner, Haggar College Center Parlor, S12 per person, Reservations Only, Also Wednesday. 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture & Discussion, "Women in Politics," Monique Begin, Former Canadian Mini­ster of National Health and Welfare, Lewis Party Room, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Movie, "US Concert," Breen Phillips So­cial Space, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Basketball, ND Men vs. Indiana Univer­sity, ACC Arena. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Black Studies FUm, "Say Amen Somebody," Memorial Library Auditorium, Free. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Student-Faculty Evening, Program of Liberal Studies, "Augustine's Conversion and Confessions," Fr. Charles Kannengiesser, ND, Memorial library Lounge. 

•8 
p.m.-Meeting A Discussion, World Hunger Coalition, Center for Social Concerns. 


TV Tonight 
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
7:00p.m.  16  Basketball -Notre Dame at Indiana  
22  Three's Company  
7:30p.m.  22  WKKRP In Cincinnati  
8:00p.m.  22  Basketball ­Indiana vs. Notre Dame  
28  Three's A Crowd  
34  Nova  
8:30p.m.  28  Who's the Boss?  

___..,....,.._..__.,........._____ ________________...,...,_...,---..,---_,..._..._.....,......,.,._....,..__,....,.._________________________________ 


Frontline play solid 


Women's basketball team splits 
By LARRY BURKE posite result, as it was the Wol­"I've never played against a team Sports Writer verines ofMichigan who overcame a that shot close to 75 percent in a halftime deficit to pull out a victory. half," said DiStanislao. "It seemed 
After splitting a pair of weekend Trailing 30-2 5 at intermission, the like everything they put up either road games, the Notre Dame wo­Wolverines shot a scorching 74 per­went in or they followed it with an men's basketball team returns to the cent from the field in the second half offensive rebound." ACC tomorrow night to face the (23 for 31) on their way to an 11­
see SPLIT, page 14
Broncos of Western Michigan at 7 point victory. 
The 1-3 Irish had an up-and-down 


p.m. Wrestlers take second 
weekend, beating Eastern Michigan, 70-59, Friday night in Ypsilanti, then dropping a 75-64 decision to Mic­higan in Ann Arbor Sunday after­


at weekend tourney 
noon. 

Notre Dame picked up its first ByJOE BRUNETI1 Coach Fran McCann opted not to victory of the season against the Sports Writer enter a wrestler in the 190-pound Hurons of Eastern Michigan. Junior and heavyweight divisions. forward Trena Keys scored a career­Consistency. It can make all the McCann feels positive about his high 24 points, while senior center difference in the world. For the squad's performance, but he realizes Carrie Bates chipped in with 14 Notre Dame wrestling team, consis­that the competition was weaker points as the Irish overcame a 46-40 tency earned it a second-place finish than last year's. deficit early in the second half by in this past weekend's Indiana State "I was hoping we'd place in the using full-court pressure that forced Ope~ . . top three. For the most part, the kidc; several critical turnovers. The Irish were sparked by two finished up to their potential," said 
The key to the victory was second-place finishes by 142-pound McCann. "But, the competition 
rebounding, as Mary DiStanislao's senior Don Heintzelman and 1 50-wasn't as strong as I'd like. We have team controlled both the offensive pound junior Luke DiSabato. But, it to go against a little tougher compe­and defensive boards for the first was the consistent performance of tition." time this season, outrebounding the their teammates that greatly im­A big problem for the young Irish 
Hurons by a 43-41 margin. Sopho­proved the team's eighth-place squad at this point in the season is a 
more forward Lavetta Willis led the finish ofa year ago. In fact, in the rest lack ofconfidence in its ability. Irish in the rebounding column with of the weight classes, an Irish "The main thing for our kido; is de· a career-high 13, while Keys and wrestler placed either third or veloping some pride, which we've Bates pulled down eight apiece. fourth. lacked in the past. We have to work 
• 
The Hurons led 36-35 at halftime, Three underclassmen paved the on our confidence. When we go and stretched their lead to six points way for the Irish at 118, 126, and against tougher competition we after five minutes of the second half. 134. Freshman walk-on John Sheehy don't have the confidence," com­But the Irish turned things around at was impressive at 126, finishing mented the first year mentor. "In a that point, scoring eight straight third, while fellow classmate· Ron couple of cases if we felt more posi­points to take the lead 48-46. After Wisniewski captured a fourth-place tive, we could have won some freshman forward Sandy Botham finish at 134. Sophomore monogram matches we lost." converted a pair of free throws and winner Carl Hildinger placed fourth McCann has been installing a to­L ( Keys scored off a steal and added a in the 118-pound class. tally new philosophy into the wres· 
~ /·' 
3. 12-foot jumper, Bates hit a la)1lp to Two freshmen battled it out for ding program at Notre Dame, and so put Notre Dame ahead. third place in the 158-pound cla..o;s, far he is still having problems getting
. " 
The Hurons came back to tie the with Ken Kasler finshing in front of his youthful squad to adapt to the 
~ 
game twice more, but Keys hit a teammate Dan Carrigan at 1 S8. new change. 
~ 
layup with nine minutes left that put Sophomore Tom Ryan took third at "The team as a whole hasn't 
~ 
the Irish up, S2-SO, a lead they never 167. while the old man of the group, adapted to our philosophy. They
•~ ,, relinquished. junior John Krug, captured a thrid 
see IRISH, page 14
Sunday's game produced the op-place finish at 1""7.
r 
_ 
I ), ~
.
......._._,(___;_,'_,_,_·----~~--------

By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The undefeated Notre Dame bas­ketball team faces its toughest chal­lenge of this early season when it faces the 11th-ranked Indiana Hoosiers, tonight at 7 p.m. at the ACC. 
The Hoosiers, who have a 1-1 record after an opening loss to Louisville and a victory over Ohio University, are attempting to give head coach Bob Knight his 400th career win, which would make him the youngest coach ever to reach that milestone. 
Indiana compiled a 22-9 record last year, and one of those victories was over number one ranked North Carolina in the East Regional of the NCAA Tournament. The Hoosiers then dropped the regional final game to Virginia. 
All ofla..c;t year's key players return except for part-time starter Chuck Franz. Among the returnees, nine started games for the Hoosiers last year and all gained extensive game experience. 
Sophomore guard Steve Alford, a member of the 1984 United States Olympic basketball team that won the gold medal in Los Angeles, returns as the leader ofthe Hoosiers. Alford has averaged 20.5 points in the two games this year. 
The New Castle, Ind., native averaged 15.5 points a game as a freshman, and set school records for field goal percentage (.592) and free throw accuracy (.913). Alford also 
Tuesday, December 4, 1984-page 16






Seorts 
Indiana provides big .test for young, injured Notre Dame 
became the first freshman ever to be named Indiana's most valuable player. 
Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps, who has seen Alford play in the Olympics when he served as a commentator for ABC and against the Irish la..<;t year, has nothing but praise for the 1983 Indiana high school Mr. Basketball. 
"Steve Alford, to me, is a candidate for Mr. Basketball so far as the United States (is concerned)," Phelps stated. "Ofteams that have got to the national championship game in the last four or five years, the guards have always been a factor. I think Al­ford is that type ofplayer, and is one of the premier players in the country." 
Senior Uwe Blab, Indiana's 7-2 center, also participated in the 1984 Olympics. However, Blab played for his native West Germany and served as co-captain for the team. 
La..c;t year, Blab led Indiana in rebounding and blocked shots, and was the second leading scorer with an 1 1.8 average. He has started 56 games in his career, which makes him the most experienced member of the team. 
Blab struggled in the opening game against Louisville, and sat out the entire second half after his four­point, three-rebound first-half per­formance. Against Ohio University, Blab came off the bench to score 10 points and grab five rebounds. However, he is struggling from the field, with a 30 percent shooting effi­ciency. 
"I just think some of the players Coach Knight is relying on haven't played to their potential yet, and es­pecially Uwe Blab," Phelps indi­cated. "And I'm sure he's going to come in here really fired up to play against us." 
Junior Mike Giomi, a 6-7 forward, leads the team in rebounding, and is second in scoring with an 11.0 average. 
The Hoosiers have three other up­perclassmen returning. Seniors Win­ston Morgan, a 6-5 swingman who was hurt most of last year, and 6-5 guard Dan Dakich will help lead the famed Indiana man-to-man defense. Junior guard Stew Robinson also returns after leading the Hoosiers in assists last year. 
Besides Alford, Knight ha..'i the services of three other sophomores. Marty Simmons, the Illinois high school Mr. Basketball for 1983, had a fine freshman year, but the 6-5 guard has struggled so far in his role as Knight's top substitute. Todd Meier, a 6-8 forward, earned a starting spot against Ohio, counting seven points and three rebounds. Daryl Thomas, a 6-7 forward, has played inconsis­tently. 
Despite the strength ofhis return­ing players, Knight went out and had one of the finest recruiting classes in the country. 
Leading the freshmen class is guard Delray Brooks. Brooks, the 1984 co-Mr. Basketball of Indiana, has shot po.orly so far this year, but is sure to improve before the end of the year. 
Brian Sloan, the high school Mr. Basketball for Illinois in 1984, had a fine game against Louisville. The 6-8 forward is the son ofJerry Sloan, a former star player and coach for the Chicago Bulls of the NBA. 
Knight also garnered 6-6 Steve Eyl, who had seven points on 100/ field goal shooting against Louisville; guard joe Hillman, who was the leading high school scorer last year in California with a 42.3 average, and 6-10 Magnus Pelkowski, a walk-on 
from Bogota, Columbia. 
The Hoosiers are expected to start Blab, Meier, Giomi, Alford, and Robinson. Thus far, only Giomi, Al­ford, and Morgan have started both games Knight, as the did last year, will have many different lineups. 
"There is only one significant thing in the starting lineup and that's to get us off to a good start," Kinght said. "They have the responsibility 
see HOOSIERS, page 14 


Carrie Bates, who bas been the anchor of Notre Dame's solid front-line play, scores on a layup in action aguinst Purdue. The women's basketball team t•plit a pair ofgames over the weekend and lany Burke reviews that actio12 in his story at left. 



