

C.S.C. Social Life-page 3 
VOL XIX, NO.6 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1984 
first prize in the game has snowballed to more 
tban 140 million. For more details see theAssoci­
atedPress story above. 

If big debts paid Corby's to reopen 
By MARGARET FOSMOE and inventory, with "the balann· ap­Executive Editor plied to repayment ofthe loan, with interest," said Scope litis. After that, 
The widow of murdered Corby "the other bills owed by C.T.I. and Tavern owner Harold Rowley Jr., is the estate will be paid off as well," he negotiating with relatives of Rowley said. following a Superior Court decision A possible source for the loan is Friday that allows her to become ad­James Broad, a Chicago accountant, ministrator ofher husband's estate. said Scopelitis. Broad is reportedly a 
n Rose Rowley, of Orland Park, Ill., partial owner of the corporation. is attempting to settle disagree­Broad also reportedly has filed a
I~ I \ 
: l," 
ments with other heirs so that she claim against the estate for debts 
~ \ '~. 
can begin work on obtaining a loan owned him by Rowley, said 
~~:; 
before the Internal Revenue sells the Scope litis. f seized bar for nearly S13,000 owed Rose Rowley says she is president 
.~: ;
t' ..\ in back taxes, said her attorney, Mi­of C.T.I. and owns all the stock not 
' 
chael Scopelitis . held by Broad, said Scopelitis. Rose 
.·. ~~ 
Rose Rowley would like to open Rowley was president when divorce 1;~··=1/'·' .. the popular student bar "as soon as proceedings between the couple .:. ;~[. possible," said Scopelitis. began approximately 18 months ~p"tl. --·-·"..:..-Most of the negotiations will in­ago, said Scopelitis. 
·-~ 
volve the murdered bar owner's fa­Rowley Jr., apparently renewed ther, Harold Rowley Sr., who has the Alcoholic Beverage Commission been administrator of the estate application in his name in either
joan McGrath displays the six numbers drawn 
since his son's death. 1982 or 1983, according to
in the Illinois State Lottery Lotto game at a 
Judge William Whitman ruled Scopelitis. Rose Rowley "would
Chicago television station Saturday night. Tbe 
that, according to Indiana state law, have to have been given some preference must be given to a sur­notice" ofit in order for the move to viving spouse to act as administrator be legal, said the lawyer. when a will does not specify some­
Illinois Lotto game could yield 
one to act in that capacity. Rose Although no deadline has been an­Rowley and Rowley Jr., were in­nounced for the payment of the volved in divorce proceedings when taxes, the IRS usually places a prop­

$40 million jackpot to one winner 
Rowley Jr., was murdered. erty on the market "within 30 days Rose Rowley may be appointed of when the property was seized," Associated Press such incredible sales," Jones said, carried by two certified public ac­administrator as soon as she files the said Thomas Forsgren, the IRS offi­but quickly added, "It would still be countants from two firms. necessary papers, the judge ruled. cial who seized and dosed the bar 
CHICAGO · Today, Labor Day, a lot offun." Thousands of Illinoisans, clutch­"We are negotiating with all the Aug. 23. may produce a new Lottery multi­For a Lotto player to collect the ing their Lotto tickets, watched the heirs for an agreement to satisfy Rowley Sr., could appeal the court millionaire who could forget about grand prize, the player has to match drawing on WFLD-TV, which is everybody," said Scopelitis. "We are decision regarding the appointment laboring the rest of his or her life. all six numbers drawn -a 3. 'S million­carried on many cable systems attempting to determine who will of his son's widow as administrator, 
With a U.S. record S40 million lot­to-! longshot -hut the order of the around the state. People from as far put up the money and who will run said Scopelitis. "I don't think he tery jackpot at stake after a week of numbers doesn't matter. Players away as California said they flew to the bar," he said. will," said the lawyer. "It's really far hectic ticket-buying, the six Illinois matching four or five numbers share Chicago just to buy a Lotto ticlfet In addition to the money owed to more important that the bar be Lotto numbers-02-03-10-26-30-43-money from smaller, separate prize this past week. the IRS, other creditors have filed opened." were drawn Saturday evening at the pools. Martha Perschon of the Chicago claims against C.T.I., Inc. and the Rowley was murdered shortly WFLO-"IV studios. On Saturday evening, one of eight suburb of Lake Forest said she spent Rowley estate totalling more than after midnight on August lst in what 
A single winner is guaranteed a sets of 44 numbered balls were cho­S I 0 on Lotto tickets this week and $26,000. C.T.I. is the corporation has been dubbed an "typical S40 million annuity -S2 million an­sen and loaded into a tumbling ma­"if there is no winner this week, I'd that owns the tavern. execution-style slaying" by the nually for 20 years -but the jackpot chine for the big dr;~wing. sure do it again." South Bend Police Department. He <:ould be larger depending on how "I'd leave my husband ifl won the "If(Corby's) can be opened, amd was shot once In the chest and twice many tickets were sold Saturday. Beforehand, the Lotto balls were money," she joked. it can be run efficiently, it can make in the back of the head as he entered 
Multiple winners will have to kept in a sealed cabinet stored in a Evelyn Phillips, a Chicago super­money and the debts can be paid," his home at 2609 York Road. share the actual money in the grand cinderblock room at WFLD. Burglar market clerk, just missed the 6:55 said Scopelitis. We are trying to The murder was reported by a prize pool -S I 'S million. alarms, heat sensors and smoke p.m. deadline Saturday for buying agree on who will put up the money Corby's employee, James Eichorst. 
l.ong lines were reported Friday detectors guarded the room against tickets. and who will run the bar," he said. Eichorst was reportedly tied up by and Saturday in front of many of the unauthorized entry or fire. Access to "Well, there's always next week," If the bar is opened, the income the unknown assailants prior the state's 2,300 businesses where lot­the drawing room required two keys she said. generated will go toward payroll shooting of Rowley. tery agents arc located. 
On Saturday alone, 7.3 million II tickets were sold to bring the week's total to 31.7 million-an all-time high 

Libertarian presidential candidate to speak
for the Illinois lottery, according to loucry spokesmanJoel Feldstein. 
"This has certainly been the most By MAURA MANDYCK platform. It calls for the immediate Bergland says the libertarian party is ding to BerglanJ. "In tact, the ear­exciting week, and certainly the StaffReporter withdrawal of United States troops "opposed to slavery in any form." liest and most influential leader in most hectic since I've been superin­from foreign countries and provide The imposition of a national the natural rights tradition, in my tendent," said loucry chief Michael David Bergland, the Libertarian defense at home but not meddle in drinking age is "totally inap­opinion, was Aquinas,"he con­Jones. candidate for president, describes foreign governments. propiate" as is "taking the taxpayers' cluded. 
The lottery computer will deter­his party as the "only organized poli­money and holding it ransom (for a Todd Young, chairperson of the mine how many people, if any, tical movement working for every­"Free trade is a powerful induce­drinking age of 21 )." Student Activities Committee on pickt·d the winning six numbers. one's liberty on all issues." ment to world peace," Bergland According to Bergland, the na­Ideas and Issues, describes the liber­
The results were to he announced at Bergland, who will be speaking at states, "and would lead to the lower­tional government has no role in the tarians as being concerned with a news conference this morning, hut Washington Hall tonight at 7 p.m., ing of the trade tarriers in other issue of abortion. "There should be "freedom as the ultimate goal, their the names of any winners won't he has been campaigning since Octo­countries." no criminal penalties for women policy stems from that." He contin­known until they contact lottery of­ber in order to offer voters an altern­He advocates the immediate who choose to terminate a preg­ued, " They believe in the reduction ficials. ative to what he calls a "very poor withdrawal of tactical weapons in nancy" but also no government sub­of welfare and social programs be­
For three straight weeks, no one choice " between Reagan and order" to take the U.S. finger off the sidizing. cause they believe that it ( the use of has won the Lotto grand prize, set­Mondalc. nuclear trigger in Europe." Bergland "The only legitimate function of tax money ) infinges on another's ting the stage for the $40 million "I can't think ofanything more im­calls for a clearly stated policy of no the national government is to pro­freedom. They would encourage jackpot. prtant than for students to know of first use of nuclear weapons and the vide national defense at home and charity programs instead." 
''I'm glad we had a successful their alternatives," Bergland said. He elimination ofall land-based missiles protect constitutional rights from In 1976 and 1980, Ed Clarke ran drawing and hopefully we'll have a has travelled to forty states to in the United States. This would violation by state and local govern­for president with the Libertarian winner or winners," Jones said, add­"present a case for freedom." remove them as targets, Bergland ments," Bergland said. party. Their goal, as stated by Young, Ing that his reaction would be A non-interventionist foreign believes, and indicate an unmis­libertarianism has been in­is "not to undermine the two party "absolute disbelief' if no one wins policy comprised of three steps -takable committment to world fluenced by the political theories of system but to have the Republican the record jackpot. neutrality, free trade, and nuclear peace. John Locke and is "dead center of and Democratic parties absorb some 
"We'd be facing another week of arms reduction is part of Bergland's Concerning draft registration, the natural rights tradition," accor-of their ideas. 



In Brief 
Off-canipus partiesat both Campus View and Notre Dame Apartments were the scene ofpolice action this past weekend. Parties that became large were broken up by South Bend police who deferred comment until a later date. According to eyewitnesses there were some arrests. -The Observer. 
Comedian Jerry Lewis began his I9th Muscular Dystrophy Telethon yesterday with calls from President Reagan and Democratic challenger Walter Mondale as Lewis sought to top the 
530.6 million raised last year. The 21 S-hour entertainment blitz began last night and is scheduled to run until3:30 p.m. PDT Monday. Overall the telethons have raised more than $300 million. This year's show will be carried by 194 stations in the United States and cable television in Canada. -AP 
A Long Island boywho found a bar of gold worth at least n 0,000 will get to keep it if no one claims it within six months, police said. joseph Errico, 12, of Franklin Square was riding his bicycle Saturday when he fell off and landed on the gold bar, which was lying by the roadside, said Detective Harry New of the Nassau County police. New said the youth took the bar home and then went with his mother to a jeweler, who confirmed that it was indeed solid gold. Police estimate its value at SlO,OOO to $12,000. -AP 
Cigarette giveawayson the streets ofBoston will be banned under a new law signed by Mayor Raymond L. Flynn. Fines up to 5200 will be levied against violators. Boston is the fourth city in Massachusetts to adopt such an ordinance, and the sixth in the nation. Similar bans have been enacted in Newton, Cambridge and Somerville as well as Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minn. Flynn said Satur­day he approved the ordinance out ofconcern for public health and to keep young people from getting the samples. -AP 
Former President Jimmy Carter and 4o 
other church group members from Georgia arrived yesterday to rehabilitate a burned-out building shell in Manhattan's East Village as housing for the poor. The project is sponsored by Habitat for Humanity, a non-profit Christian organization based in Americus, Ga. Carter is a member ofthe board. -AP 
Margaret Thatcher' the pignot the prime mini­
ster of England, won the annual pig race in Arazuri, Spain on Satur­day. Thatcher beat out competitors called Ronald Reagan and Carl Lewis as 3,000 spectators cheered in the northern spanish town. Six animals ran the 600-meter course on Saturday after what local offi­cials said was 1 7 days of training by their respective owners. A seventh, named Pasionaria after the famous Spanish Civil War orator, was scheduled to compete, but was scratched before the race due to a leg injury. -AP 
A killer COW strangled its owner in Islamabad, Pakistan yesterday. The owner, Noor Alam, 60, took his cow out to graze Saturday in order to fatten it up. He was fatally injured when he put one end ofthe cow's tether around his neck and the animal ran away. Alam died Saturday after he was dragged "quite a distance" by the cow he had purchased to sacrifice later this week in the Moslem festival Second Christmas. After purchasing his cow, Alam took it out to graze in order to fatten it up. He made a loop in the rope holding the cow and put it around his own neck to free his hands. Onlookers stopped the cow as it was dragging him and took him to the hospital. 
-AP 
Weather 
Partly sunnyand cool today. Low in the upper SOs to low 60s. Highs in the upper 70s. Dry throughout the week and warming towards Friday. ­
AP 

The.~Obsenrer_ 
Today's issue was produced by: Design Editor......................... Chris Bowler
The Observer (! ·srs <;<.19 Z·•OOO) is 
Design Assistant........................ Paul Bruce 
puhlishc:d Monday through Friday and 
Typesetters .......................... Kevin Williams 
on homt' football Satun.ta~·s. l·xct'pl 
News Editor............................ ]ohn Mennell 
during exam and val·ation periods. The 
Copy Editor............................... Mark Potter 
Observer is puhlishnl by tht" studc.:nt!-1 of 
Sports Copy Editor ....................... Phil Wolf 
the: l 'ni\'t:r~ity of N'Hft:' Damt:' and Saint 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Dave Grote 
Mary·s College. Sub~cription!'o may ht: 
Viewpoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce 
purchased for S25 per rear ( $1 5 per 
Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy 
semester) hy writin~ The Observer, 
Features Layout........................ Mary Healy 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
ND Day Editor................... Kathleen Doyle 
The Observer is a memberofThe As­
Ad Design .........................Suzanne LaCroix 
sociated Press. All repro<lu<·tion right> 
Pbotograpber ....................... Thorn Bradley 
art" reserved. 

The Observer Monday, September 3, 1984 -page 3 

jazz Band Tryouts 
Building. Tbere were openings for all Instru­ments. 
Auditions yesterday for Notre Dame's jazz Bands and Combos were beld In tbe Band Annex 


C.S.C provides social life 
ByPATSAIN 
Senior StaffReporter 
Looking for a better "social life?" ... How about joining groups that tutor children, provide community ser­vice, or help the handicapped? 
During Activities Night this eve­ning at Stepan Center, nearly twenty dub~ and organizations will be pres­t'nt to show how one can help others and have fun at the same time. 
Some of the clubs, like the Neigh­borhood Study Help Program, and the Council for Fun and Learn, help tutor s<:hool children who are disad­vantaged or handicapped. 
<>ther organizations, like Big Brot­hers/Big Sisters and the National Collegiate Athletic Association Vol­unteers for Youth, match Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with lm:al youth in nt•ed offriendship and support in one-to-one relationships. 
Several groups offer community 
STUDENT SENATE 
is accepting applications for: 
• Parliamentarian 
• Secretary 
applications available in Student Govt. Office 2nd floor Lafortune 
Deadline Friday, Sept. 7, 4:30p.m. 

service. lbe American Red Cross provides first aid at Notre Dame events and also gives Safety Educa­tion classes. Sister Marita's Primary Day School offers children a second chance to master basic learning skills, and child care is provided by the Circle of Mercy Day Care Cen­ter. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus, a member of the national Catholic service organi­zation, is involved in a variety activi­ties, including.communlty service. 
A large campus organization which holds retreats is The Commu­nity for the International Lay Apost­olate, (CILA ). CILA also provides other community services such as visiting the elderly and the handi­capped. lbc World Hunger Coali­tion is a community ofstudents from Notre Dame trying to promote awareness of world hunger. Nearly 800 students participate in the WHC's weekly mid-day fast. The money saved by the fast is used to provide direct aid for starving people in other countries. 
All of these clubs and organiza­tions are part of the Center for Social Concerns, located on the mall just west of Memorial Library. Informa­tion about these clubs and many other organizations is also available there during weekdays. 


Bush honored in ceremony 
Associated Press 
NORFOLK, Va. -Vice President George Bush, shot down during a naval bombing mission in the South Pacific exactly 40 years before, was honored yesterday at a Navy cere­mony that Democrats branded a po­lltical event. 
Bush was the guest of honor on a stage erected on a sun-baked pier at the Norfolk Naval Station for the an­niversary ceremony. 
The Navy insisted that the event, at which Navy Secretary John Leh­man called Bush a man of outstand­ing courage, was non-political. 
GIVE US 

TIME TO REPAY 
YOUR LOAN. 
Ifyou've gone to college on a National Direct Student Loan, a Guaranteed Student Loan or a Federally Insured Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, and your loan is not in default, here's a way to get your loan repaid. 
Use the Ar•y's Loan Repayment program. Each year you serve on active duty reduces your indebtedness by one-third or $1500, whichever amount is greater. In a three-year enlistment, you eliminate your debt. 
Additionally, you could learn a valuable skill and take advantage of many other Army opportunities. If you have the time, we have the money. 
Check it out with your Army Recruiter. 
SGT JONES 234-4187 
ARMY. BEALLYOU CAM BE. 
Democrats contended it was in­tended to score points against his 
Democratic  challenger,  Geraldine  
Ferraro.  
The  vice  president  toured  a  

nuclear-powered submarine, the USS Finback, which bears the same name as the sub that rescued him on Sept. 2, 1944, after his plane was downed by anti-aircraft fire. Then he donned a leather jacket and climbed into the cockpit of a torpedo bom­ber identical to the one he flew in his Navy days. 
The pier was flanked by the nu­clear aircraft carriers Nimitz and John F. Kennedy. 
Lehman said Bush's naval service began a career "which went on to mark some of the most remarkable achievements in the annals ofAmeri­can politics." 
The Navy secretary said the cere­mony also marked the 39th 


University receives alcohol award 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN 
News Staff 
The University has received an award from the Greater Indianapolis Council on Alcoholism for the report released last spring by the Committee for the Responsible Use ofAlcohol. 
Father William Beauchamp ac­cepted the "Service in Preventing Alcoholism" award on behalf of the University-last 'Ibursday at a dinner at the Indianapolis Sheraton Meridian Hotel. The award is pre­sented annually to the institution which docs the most to prevent a!­
Students partake in St. Joe beach party 
ByJOHN GORLA 
StaffReporter 
More than 500 Domcrs took to the beach at St. Joseph's Lake this past Saturday to soak up the last few rays of the summer sun. The Beach Party, sponsored by the Student Ac­tivities Board, started with an early morning biathlon and included a windsurfing clinic, canoeing, in­ncrtube waterpolo, and demonstra­tions by the crew and sailing teams. 
Sally Derengoski, Coordinator of Recreational Services, was pleased with the turnout. She said, "There was no promise ofgood weather un­til the biathlon was over. When the coholism. 
Beauchamp said the award was presented to the University for the Alumni Association's I984 spring break program in Fort Lauderdale as well as the Committee's report. lbe program aimed to offer vacationing students an alternative to the bar­centered college social life by spon­soring concerts and social functions. 
The Council, a branch of the National Committee on Alcoholism, also presented an award to former Indiana Governor Otis Bowen for his work for BACCHUS, an organiza­tion formed to reduce alcohol abuse. 
sun finally appeared the people just came and came." 
"The atmosphere was great," ex­claimed sophomore Kris Novotny. She added, "I think everybody had a good time." Senior Dave Martin said, "This is one of the few opportunities that the students can get together and enjoy the beautiful natural facilities on campus." 
The plans for the beach party have been in the works since spring. Ms. Derengoski hopes that in the future there will be other events similar to this. Also, a special thank-you is In order for Brother Louis Hurclk and his team of lifeguards for the safety features of the beach party. 
anniversary of the Japanese signing of surrender papers on the battles­hip Missouri to end World War II. 
Bush called the ceremony "a very moving occasion," and paid tribute to the two crew mates who died on the bombing mission. 
Ann Lewis, political director of the Democratic National Commit­tee, said in an interview last week that Bush was indulging in "epaulet­flexing" by putting a spotlight on his war record. 
"We were kids then," the 60-year­old Bush recalled. "But we knew that we were fighting for something very Important." 
He said, "We learned in World War II that you cannot appease totalitarians with weakness. In fact, it was the very pacifism ofthe demo­cratic nations before the war that tempted the aggressors on." 
"I think events like this for the purpose of a natioaal campaign trivialize the very v ,lues they claim I,J commend," she ·aid. 
WELCOME BACK Notre Dame Students 
from 

Beacon Bowl 
~\1[''"',--Specials-]
75¢ games 50¢ beer with student ID 
4210 Lincoln Way W. 234-4167 
located on US 20 by S.B. Airport 

Watelafor more specla,. tlals year 


The Observer Monday, September 3, 1984 -page 4 
r 
r 
r 
f 
r 
r r 
'r 
t 
~ 
r 
, ~ 
Phmo 
President Ronald Reagan, pictured here last week at the God­dard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., will address a campaign opening rally in Orange County, Calif, today. 



Reagan, Mondale kickoff campaigns 
Associated Press 
Walter F. Mondale said yesterday that President Reagan's linking ofre­ligion with politics is "not the Amer­ican way," as challenger and incumbent poised for the traditional Labor Day kickoff oftheir campaigns for the White House. 
After attending church in Min­neapolis and delivering a paid radio address heavy on religion, Mondale flew tg_New York, where he will launch his underdog candidacy Monday in a coast-to-coast blitz with his running mate, Geraldine Ferraro. Reagan flew to California Sunday, prepared to launch his "last cam­paign" in the friendly territory ofhis home state. 
But Mondale didn't wait for the Labor Day opening to take the offen­sive against Reagan, who enjoys a 
double-digit  lead  over  his  Demo­ 
cratic  challenger  in  most  public  
opinion polls.  

Referring to the president's state­ment last month that "politics and morality are inseparable," Mondale said in his broadcast that "government must not be permitted to dictate the religious life of our people." 
Reagan defended his earlier state­ment Sunday. "I was speaking about people who would deny such things as chaplains in the military ... I'm not seeking to install a state religion in any way," he told reporters as he left the White House for the West Coast. 
Sen. Robert Dole, R-Kan., said, meantime, that the Republican Party may be identifying too closely with religious groups. Conservative groups such as the Moral Majority, led by the Rev. Jerry Falwell, stand solidly behind Reagan. 
"I think religious conventions are very good. But I think there is a fine line. I think we are near the edge," Dole said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." 
Keep School From Getting Boring. 
Put some excitement in your life. Visit Skyports Unlimited, Inc and learn to fly in just one hour. Be­come a Paraplane Pilot, exper­ience the safety of a parachute and the freedome of flight of an Ultra­light. 
20 minutes from campus SKYSPORTS UNLIMITED, Inc. Route 1 Tyler Road Walkerton, IN 219-586-2663 
Reagan will address a campaign­opening rally Monday in Orange County; Calif., which proved its long-time loyalty to him in 1980 by giving the former California gover­nor the largest majority of votes of any county in the nation. 
As Reagan leaves the state today, Mondale and Ms. Ferraro will arrive for a rally in Long Beach, the final leg of their day-long journey across America. The Mondale campaign has indicated it has not given up on Cali­fornia, with its 47 electoral votes. 
Toxic cloud threatens 
Associated Press 
OMAHA, Neb. -Police went door­to-door evacuating hundreds of Omaha residents and closed a stretch of Interstate 80 last night after a cloud of eye-irritating nitric oxide was released in a chemical leak at a computerfirm, officials said. 
There were no immediate reports ofinjuries. 
The chemical cloud, which could be toxic in heavier concentrations, was reported about 8:30 p.m. by Control Data, said Omaha police and the Douglas County Sheriffs Office. 
By about 9 p.m., residents were being evacuated from 96th to 120 Streets and from L to Harrison 
THE ARMY NURSING CHALLENGE 
You've worked hard getting your degree, hard enough that you'd like to continue the challenge. That's what Army Nursing offers. The challenge of professional practice, new study opportunities, continuing education and travel are all part of Army Nursing. And you'll have the respect and dignity accorded an officer in the United States Army. If you're working on your BSN or ir you already have a BSN and are registered to practice in the United States or Puerto Rico, talk to our Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
SGT JOHN MOORE 
(815) 727-9120 CALL COLLECT 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Streets, about a 2-square-mile area. Police said Interstate 80 in the area was also closed to traffic. 
Officers in squad cars used loud speakers to tell residents south and east of the evacuated area to stay inside and close their windows to prevent inhalation of toxic fumes. More than 10,000 people live in the affected area, an official said. 
The Red Cross set up an evacua­tion center at a church. Winds were blowing the cloud south and east ofthe computerfirm. 
About 4,500 gallons of nitric acid, which formed the gas, began leaking slowly after a gasket between the valves on a tank apparently gave way, said Capt. joe Welge ofthe Mil­lard Fire Department. 

Shuttle waste system clogged 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, FLA. -A buildup of ice, blocking lines that dump excess water overboard from the space shuttle Discovery, prompted Miss~n Control yester­day to order the five-man, one­woman crew not to use the ship's toilet. 
"We would like you to use the on­board Apollo bags," the astronauts were told. On the Apollo moon flights, astronauts used plastic bags for human waste and 48 of the bags were stored aboard Discovery for just such an emergency. 
Mission control said there was enough space in the rapidly filling waste water tank for one or two crewmen to use through the end of the mission and it was presumed that it would be made available to Judy Resnik. 
The ice buildup, on the port side of the new shuttle, at first blocked only the nozzle used to dump the excess water that is a by-product of the electricity created by the ship's fuel cells. 
Mission control decided to see if water still could be forced through, but that caused a second outlet-the toilet drain -to be blocked. 
Television, beamed down from the camera on the shuttle's robot arm, dramatically showed the almost-instaneous formation of the second ice blob and the doubling in size of the first. 
"The bottom line is that we got buildup now on both nozzles," said commander Henry W. Hartsfield. It appeared the first chunk extended 2 to 3 feet from the shuttle; the second was smaller. 
Outside the discomfort of having no toilet, the astronauts were not threatened in any way. The concern about the ice was that it might come off during the flaming re-entry into Earth's atmosphere on Wednesday and damage the ship's tiles. 
The easy, but time-consuming so­lution for the problem was to turn the ship toward the sun and that was done. But that threatened to delay the continuation of tests Monday on the 102-foot solar sail being tested for the first time on the flight. 
Mission control said the solar ar­ray will not work properly if it gets too cold. 
Miss Resnik raised the golden solar wing 10 stories high above shuttle Discovery's cargo bay yesterday-almost like a sail on a tall ship of old -in demanding tests of a method that may one day harness the sun's power for space stations. 
The shiny "solar sail" was stretched first to 73 feet, then to its 
Hey Mate! 
The Observer needs you. The 
news department is accepting 
applications for the following 
eCopy Editor 
For more information contact Dan, Sarah or Anne at 239-5313. Applications are due Thursday at 5 p.m. 

THIS OLDE HOUSE 

PIZZERIA Be PUB 
Welcome Back 
This.Tuesday we will deliver a Medium 16" pizza with 1 Topping for 
$6'5 Each additional item is 
$1.00 

NEW HOURS 
ALSO 
4-12 p.m. 
1 Free Liter PEPSI 
Mon. -Sun. 

277-4519 CALL BEFORE 11:30 p.m. FOR DEUVERY 
EXPIRES 9/4/84 


full 1 02-foot height to check its stability. 
It was raised like a giant movie screen from the cargo bay upon computer commands issued from Discovery's cockpit by Miss Resnik. 
"We extended successfully to 100 percent," she said. "When we did so, all the panels ... popped free, very nicely, one at a time." The 15-inch plastic panels-84 ofthem-had been stored, accordion-like, in a box less than 4 inches high until they were pulled out. 
Engineers reported that at its full height. the top of the solar array moved 19 inches -considerably less than had been predicted before the flight. 


promise reached last week, that
*••••••••••••••••••• GARRET 
ELECTRONICS ~:~~s~:~~~e~~~~~=~:d~~;:~ 
~ There wi II be a MEETING ~ ~~Bnu~t-s..haatmeaidrisna.tg.dmheemwbaser··sotritJPcarotmla-_
..,.-......-We repair all makes of stereos and VCRs .lt for all those interested in lt We sell all makes ofstylii (needles) mined to forming a gl)vernment of
* 
F t * 3318 Mishawaka Ave. 234-3739 :;~~?nal unity. One should not give

* 
ea ures * ~.................................................., 


:writing or page design for The Observer: s;;i;;;·i~~;:;;;di~L;~·s~h~~i·i Roc.co's Hair .,
* Wednesday, Sept. 5 at 7 p.m. lt Don't Miss the ~ Styling , 
lt in the Observer office lt 
lt Writing topics include record, movie and concert lt :reviews, human interest articles, and humor columns.: :PRE-LAW SOCJE1Y MEETING ! lt For more Information contact Mary Healy at the lt : 
531 N. Michigan St..lt Observer office, 239·5313. lt : Monday, September 3 
7:00 Library Auditorium L... Phone 233-4957 ~.CD! 
• ...........-...................................... f{l!jl 
...............................
******************** L 
The Observer Monday, September 3, 1984 -page 5 


Student Activities Night 122 groups participate-How to find them 
I. Information 50. Admissions 
2. 
Calendar Sales '51. UNO MacCiub 

3. 
Student Activities 52. Accounting Association 

4. 
Student Government 53. AIESEC '5. Alph Phi Omega 54. American Institute ofArchitecture-ASC 


6. 
CILA 55. Physics Club 

7. Big Brother/Sister-ND/SMC 56. Judo Club 
122-124 
8. 
Big Brother/Sister -St. Joe County 57. Men's Volleyball 

9. 
ClrdeK 58. Squash Club 

10. 
World Hunger Coalition 59. Rowing Club 


I I. Council for the Retarded 60. Sailing Club 
12. 
Council for Fun and Learn 61. Windsurfing Club 108-115 

13. 
NCAA Volunteers for Youth 62. Chapel Choir 

14. 
NSHP 


63. ShenanigansI'5. Madison Center 64. Voices ofFalth 
16. St. Joe Mcd Center 65. Skateboard Club 
17. Red Cross 66. Ski Club 
18. Red Cross 67. Water Polo Club 
19. Women's International League 
68. Weightlifting Club 
20. Catholic Charities 69. Women's Softball 
21. Holy Cross Association 70. Women's Golf 
22. Urban Plunge 71. Women's Track and Cross Country23. NISH 72. Non Varsity Athletics 24. Summer Service Project 73. SWE2'5. American Lebanese Club 74. Sociology Club26. Black Cultural Arts 75. Alpha Epsilon Delta 27. International Student Organization 76. Boxing Club
28. Foreign Studies 
77. Gaming Club29. Dome 78. Gymnastics Club
30. Scholastic 
79. League of Black Business St.
3 I . Observer 80. Management Club
32. WVFI 81. Marketing Club
33. Ombudsman 82. Math Club 

,
:H. WSND-FM 83. Minority Sclence Club3'5. Hawaiian Club 84. Society of Black Engineers36. Japan Club 85. Pre-Law Society
37. Ground Zero ~ 
86. Pre-Professional Society 38. Right to Ufe 87. Sr. Marita's 39. Knights ofColumbus 
1
88. STEP 
Stepan Center 
40. Ladles ofColumbus 89. Judicial Council41. L-'5 Society 
1
90. Bacchus 98. French Club
42. Pep Rally Committee 106. Young Democrats 115. People ofPraise
91. Hospice 99. Historical Society 
4
3. Progressive Musik 108. Abiogenesis Dance 116. Voluntary Action Center 

44. 
Social Alternatives 92. DuComb Center I00. Italian Club 109. Baptist Student Union 117. Nuclear Weapons Freeze ~ 4'5. Thomas More Society 93. ASCE 101. S.P.E.RO. 110. College Republicans 118. Youth Runaway Shelter ~ 


46. Science Quarterly 94. ASME 102. ALC-Snite Museum Ill. F.L.O.C. 119. Cleveland Club 
95. Architext 103. Student Managers
47. Counseling/Psych. Services 112. FCA 120. Southern California Club 
96. Arts and Letters Business Society 104. Toastmasters
48. ND/SMC Theatre 113. Legal Aid & Defender 121. Wisconsin Club 

97. Finance Club
49. Spanish Club 
All interested performers, musicians, technicians, and choreographers 
shenanigans 
Notre Dame's Singing & Dancing Ensemble 
wlll be holding an informational meeting 
at 7:00p.m., Tuesday, Sept. 4 in 242 O'Shag 
Stop by our booth at Student Activities Night on Monday 
Auditions will be Monday and Tuesday, Sept. 10 & 11 
105. Women's Caucus 114. Mary's Di Hards 122. Martial Arts 


Shamir, Peres acknowledge block hampering government formation 
Shamir, who heads the Ukud bloc, meeting at the King David Hotel. and Peres, leader of the Labor Party, Peres said in a separate interview, 
JERUSALEM -Caretaker Prime hold widely divergent views on the "We have found our diJJerences to Minister Yitzhak Shamir and the m:.n construction of new Jewish settle­be very serious ones, and we shall designated to succeed him, Shimon ments on the occupied West Bank, try through various contacts to see If Peres, said yesterday serious obsta­and on launching a peace Initiative we can overcome them." cles were blocking formation ofa bi­with Jordan. But they had an­Ukud was reportedly dissatisfied partisan government, but they were nounced previously they had with the two-year rotation scheme, not giving up. reached a compromise on those two and wanted the premiership to alter­
Shamir said they would meet Issues and that sharing power In the nate every year. again In the next few days to con­government was the last problem to Parliament member Ehud Olmert, tinue their talks, which appear to overcome. of Ukud, sald Sunday on Israel army have stalled over the make-up of a Labor sources sald Shamir had radio that his party feared Labor joint Cabinet and who will head it. agreed to let Peres serve as prime might refuse to hand over power In 
Last week the two leaders agreed minister first, while Ukud officials two years, either through guile or to alternate as prime minister, each denied such an agreement, and because of changes In political al­holding the job for half of the pro­reports Sunday said Ukud liances. posed government's 50-month demanded that Shamir have the job Labor spokesmen warned before term. first. yesterday's meeting that the talks 
But Shamir sald Sunday he and "There were very important ob­might break down if Labor thought Peres still disagreed over policy and stacles and we have to try to find a Shamir was reneging on his agree­the division of power in the new way to overcome them," Shamir told ment. 
Cabinet. reporters after the two-hour "If the Ukud backs down on the 





~i~~~_()__i_Il___t________________Mo-nd~ay~,S~ep-tem_b_er~3,_19-84~p~age_6 


l~·r~~E~GN 
]ll THE n FAl LADY... 
\,-.... 
~-­

r 
r 

Running with God 
I expected Ronald Reagan to choose the

~ 
God-country-family strategy for his campaign,

r 
but few foresaw how blatantlyhe would make ~ God part ofhis ticket. He has geared his strat­egy to the evangelicals and the Catholic
r 
r 
hierarchy and has gone far toward a danger­
ous linking ofreligion and politics. It may be healthy for a Republican victory, but it isn't healthy for the nation. Religion is 
Max Lerner 

The Lerner column 
important, but in a democracy like the Ameri­can it should be ecumenical, not Christian or anything else. 

r 
It is true that secularism has taken over the West since the 18th-Century French 
philosophers, and has led to Nietzsche's 

~ 
"death ofGod" and to Martin Buber's "eclipse r ofGod." r It is Paul Johnson's theme, in his sometimes 
r overstated but always powerful world history of the 20th century, "Modern Times" (Harper), that the "death" of God created a
~ vacuum of beliefs and a relativist ethic, and that the will to power moved into it. Hence Lenin, Hitler, Stalin, with their barberous poli­tical religions. If American liberals had not been im­prisoned in their dogmatic secularism they would have found ways of moving into the vacuum themselves. But it was the evangeli­cals who did, with their Moral Majority and their fundamentalist TV preachers. Ronald Reagan inherited the evangelical bonanza in 1980, even against a twice-born Jimmy Carter. He could have done it again this time, without the explicit political theology of his prayer breakfast talk at Dallas. But he chose to give history a nudge by making God an honorary convention delegate. The liberal Christian theology has been 
strong among the Democrats, as a Social 
Gospel theology. All three candidates who 
made it to San Francisco were theological in 
background -Walter Mondale as the son of a 
stern preacher, Gary Hart as a Yale theological 
graduate, Jesse Jackson as a radical revivalist 
preacher. The Jackson night at the Demo­
cratic convention was awash with a stirring 
religious tide. And the "liberation theology" 
ofour time, both Catholic and Protestant, puts 
the clergy on the side of the left guerrilla 
fighters, themselves godless. 

Thus religion and politics have been locked 
in an impassioned embrace, despite Madison's 
"double wall ofseparation." Think ofLincoln's 
inaugural addresses, think ofWilliamJennings 
Bryan's "Cross of Gold" speech. But in a 
secular age no one has figured out a workable 
theology for a capitalist, pluralist America. 
Reinhold Niebuhr, with his anti-fanatic demo­
cratic face, and Will Herberg, with his "three­
religion culture," .came closest. But the 
problems of state-subsidized abortion and 
school prayer and tuition tax credits are still 
unresolved. 

It was strangely left to Geraldine Ferraro to 
blurt out that Reagan wasn't so hot as a 
churchgoer or a Christian, and it was left to 
Ferraro's sponsor Gov. Mario Cuomo, and to 
Reagan's closefriend, Sen. Paul Laxalt, to cross 
swords over Bishop O'Connor's intervention 
on abortion. If these were pump primings, 
Reagan's Dallas speech was a Niagara of 
response. 

But campaign sledgehammers are not the 
• way to find a resolution. In the end it will have to assert that God is alive and doesn't need the state to help him live, that the constitution is religion-blind as well as color-blind, that no religion can have priority over others in America, but that children can't grow up in a vacuum ofbelief. 
IfAmericans can't make these propositions square with each other they don't deserve to be called a civilization. 
(c) 1984 Los Angeles Times Syndicate 



What Ronald Reagan really believes 
As November 4 draws near, Americans are once again faced with the decision of who should hold the highest office in the land. In deciding whether the incumbent President deserves four more years of tenure, one help· ful element for Americans to consider would be a review of what Ronald Reagan really believes. In examining the President's under· lying values, it is interesting to see that Reagan has been remarkably consistent throughout his entire span ofpublic service. 
On the domestic front, reagan has always espoused the belief that government is evil and that its role in society should be min-
Paul Komyatte 
guest column 
imized. The President has consistently spoken out against excessive governmental social programs. In campaigning for Governor of California, Reagan called the state's welfare recipients "a faceless mass waiting for hand­outs." Indeed, Reagan's old Hollywood as­sociates vividly remember this beliefofhis. In a 1968 book about Reagan, one Hollywood wag is quoted as saying, "Ronnie always envied Errol Flynn's role in Robin Hood, but he thought the script should be changed from having the hero take from the rich to give to the poor. He wanted to make it the other way around." 
It should thus have come as no surprise when the President carried out his plans after his 1980 victory. The Reagan tax cut ended up lavishing the vast majority of savings to the very top percentage of income earners, a statistic verified by David Stockman'sAtlantic interview in which he admitted the tax cut was merely a trojan horse for the rich. Reagan's social cuts complemented the tax plan by making across the board slashes in vir­tually every social program, from food stamps to Medicare to Veteran benefits. 
This trend will likely continue if Reagan is granted a second term. While hedging on whether he would raise taxes, Reagan aides have leaked reports that one possible tax plan would be a value added tax similar to an addi­tional sales tax. Reagan has always stated a per­sonal preference for sales taxes, measures which shift the burden from the wealthy to the poor in a regressive manner. 
Reagan's foreign policy beliefs have also dis­played remarkable consistency. During the 1960s Reagan was charging the liberal es­tablishment with supporting a policy of ap­peasement and a choice "only between fight and surrender." Just how far Reagan may be willing to go in fighting communism was revealed in a quote since denied by the Presi­dent in theJuly 10,1967 issue ofNewsweek. "I don't think anyone would cheerfully want to use atomic weapons....(But) If we ask Ameri­can boys to fight and die for their country then we should do all in our power to aid them to win a victory as quickly as possible. I'd like to see the end in 24 hours (in Viet Nam) if it could be done." 
Reagan consistently displayed his staunch anticommunist views after his 1980 victory. Charging the Soviets with being the root of nearly every evil in the modern world, Reagan launched an unprecedented peace time mili­tary build up and became the first President since World War II that did not meet with So­viet leaders. In fighting what Reagan calls the spread of communism in our backyard, the 
U.S. has undertaken a covert war against Nicaragua in an effort to destabilize the Mar­xist oriented Sandinista leadership. Reagan went so far as mining Nicaraguan harbors to frustrate shipping. Similar military tactics were not even performed at the onset ofViet Nam for fear they would be too provocative. 
If November sees a Reagan victory, hard­line foreign policy will certainly continue. The Reagan administration has already prepared contingency plans for a military in­vasion of Nicaragua by 1985 or 1986 if CIA efforts fail to achieve the stated U.S. goal. Reagan has expressed keen interest in "star wars" space technology, and given the cur­rent stagnation in arms talks with the Soviets, a major arms control agreement does not ap­pear likely in a second Reagan term, leaving the way wide open for the militarization of space. 
Thus, in preparting to vote on November 4, one should realize that a vote for Reagan is a vote for the policies he has consistently espoused for nearly 20 years. The domestic scene will surely be marked by less emphasis on social programs and possibly a regressive tax measure such as the value added tax which would continue to shift the tax burden from the rich to the poor. Foreign policy will continue to be one of communist confronta­tion and continued military increases. In a world where Reagan views accomodation as being synonomous with appeasement and surrender, the prospects for real arms control agreements appear dim. The President has dis­played the same domestic and foreign beliefs for nearly two decades. This is what Reagan really stands for, and a Republican vote in No­vember should be seen by Americans as a vote and mandate for the continuation of these policies. 
Paul Komyatte is the president of the ND­SMC Young Democrats and a senior in the College ofArts & Letters at Notre Dame. 


P.O.BoxQ 
Not at all amusing 
After reading Marc Ramirez's "Freshmen's Comprehensive Guide to the Campus," I felt compelled to respond immediately. I am a freshman and I was not at all amused by the infantile nature ofthe article. 
Mr. Ramirez showed very poor taste in writing such as asinine "guide." While we may not be fully accustomed to campus life, we most certainly are not the simpletons or children the author seems to think we are. 
What is really disturbing in this case in that heretofore I had been impressed by the quality ofThe Observer and the genuine kind­ness shown to me by most everyone I've met. Perhaps Mr. Ramirez should stick to writing sports and leave the sarcasm to someone else. 
Chris Skorcz Morrissey Hall 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief.  . ... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .  . ..... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor  .... Mark Worscheh  Controller .  . ..... Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily  News Editor.. . . . . .  . Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager.  . ... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor .  . .. Dan McCullough  Systems Manager.·. ....... Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor . . . . Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor...  . . Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters.  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor. . . . .. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  





Showcase 

Monday, September 3, 1984 -page 7 
Bridging the social gap 
A visit fro01 01' Buddy Ted by Marc Ramirez features columnist There was too much blank space on the wall. Something had to go there, between the Marilyn Monroe calendar and the Budweiser sign. I figured that's where I'd put up the "Risky Business" poster. I had just pulled out the masking tape when there was a knock at the door. "Yeah?" I said, not expecting anyone important. "Come on in." And in did come in someone I hadn't seen in quite a long time, prohably since freshman year. I was pleasantly surprised. "Ted!" I exclaimed. "How's it going, old buddy?" "Fine, thanks," he answered. "How are you?" "Oh, all right, I guess," I said. "You know how it goes, classes here, classes there, no time to do anything. Why don't you have a seat?" He sat in the chair near the window, and gazed out onto the South Quad. "Don't mind me," I told him as I returned to the business ofputting up the poster. "I'm just trying to liven up the room." "Yes," he said. "I noticed your Budweiser sign." "Oh, that," I said. "Well, it's not really mine, you know. I just found it and it was the only thing that would fit there." Yeah, Marc, I thought to myself, I'm sure he buys that. "Uh," I began, trying to change the subject. "So, Ted, what brings you here today? Got something on your mind? Or did you just want to see my room? Sorry I haven't been by to see yours yet, but you know how it goes, here a quiz, there a quiz, everywhere a quiz-quiz." He sat quietly in the chair, surveying the furnishings ofthe room. His expression never changed, not even when he saw the latest issue ofNational Lampoon sitting on the dresser. It was too quiet for me. "Do you like it?" I asked him abruptly. "The room, I mean? It just needs a little work here and there, and I thought maybe this poster ·" I stopped, and saw the girl stretched out on the Porsche at the bottom of the poster. It fell from my hands and I turned, smiling a little. His expression still hadn't changed. "Someone gave that poster to me," I said. "I really didn't want it, but you know how it goes. Suddenly he spoke. "About your columns, Marc," he started. Ah, so that's what this is all about, I thought. Maybe if I butter him up a little, then. . "Hey, Ted, old buddy, old pal," I said. But he wa.o; quicker than I on this particular afternoon. "So, I'm never here, huh?" he demanded. "What's that supposed to mean?'' No change in the expression yet, but I could tell he was a little hot under the ol' collar. "Well, you know, Ted, I really didn't mean anything by that. I just don't see you around here a whole lot. I mean, you could drop by for Mass or an interhall game or a party ­well, scratch that last item." Oops. I had blown it again. "Why is it you never anything good to say about this University?" he a.o;ked me. "All Ed wanted to do was to found a nice little school here in the forest by the lake and now here you go cutting it down every chance you get." Boy. Did I feel like a heel. Excuse me while I crawl under the cabinet over here. "Well, you know, that's not entirely true, Ted," I said in a desperate effort to retain some sense of survival. "I do have some good things to say about Notre Dame. Like, I don't know what the Admissions Office is doing different now but those freshmen girls are something else. I saw one walking out on the Quad the other day who should have been against the law or something. You'd have liked her." Oops again. Open mouth, insert foot. Take two of these and call back in the morning. "lJh, you know what I mean, Ted." "Yes, well," he replied, trailing off. lJh, oh, I thought, it's the ol' "yes, well" again. Those "yes, wells" ofhis always bothered me. "You know what I want you to do, Marc?" he said. "I want you to write something good about Notre Dame in one of your columns. Your next one, as a matter offact." lbat expression had yet to change. 'Ihat bothered me more than his "yes, wells." "Can I write about the girls?" I asked timidly. He just stared at me. His expression never changed. Some things never change. "Didn't think so," I muttered. "Well, maybe I'll write about you coming by to see me. I mean, that's not something I anticipate every day, you know what I mean? But it's certainly a welcome change." "lhis is a special ca.o;e," he answered. "I'm a busy man. And I have togo." "Well, thanks for coming by," I told him. "Be sure to drop by again. Let's have lunch, what do you say?" "We'll see after your column comes out Monday. I'm counting on you. We're all counting on you." And with that he turned and walked out the door. "See you, Ted!" I shouted after him. "Hey, we're still friends, aren't we?" But he wa.o; already out of hearing range. Well, I guess I blew that lunch date. But you know how it goes. A column here, a column there. And some things never change, anyway.  


by Kevin Williams 
features staffwriter 
I 
am a bridge junkie. 
Unlike alcoholism, the fact that 
I admit this is not a significant step 
towards a cure. I have no intention 
ofseeking help. 
I never wanted to be a bridge 
junkie. For years I resisted my 
grandmother's best efforts to teach 
me the game. At the time it just 
didn't seem worth the effort since I 
already knew how to play gin 
rummy and at least four different 
kinds ofsolitaire. 
Years later, I met a Grace quad 
full of math majors (and Karl the 
Business-Spanish major) who all 
played bridge. For nearly two 
semesters I resisted their best effort 
to indoctrinate me -a feat made 
easier by their built-in foursome. 
Then, last summer, years of restraint were wiped out as one of the four finally convinced me to buy a book and learn the basics Qohn still won't admit that I learned the game from him). It all started innocently enough. We only played when it was convenient. Later, convenient came to mean merely that no long distance phone charges were involved. And the concept offour bridge players living in the same room began to take on Utopian characteristics. 
After a year ofplaying bridge with the same five or six people, we discovered duplicate bridge -the 
game that brings together bridge 
junkies ofall ages, shapes and sizes. 
It was a humbling experience. 
Those cute little old ladies we all 
regard as the harmless 
grandmother-type took great joy in 
making it painfully evident that we 
were in the big leagues now. 
But it had its rewards. The governing body, the American Contract Bridge League, awards Master Points-MPs-(or rather, hundredths ofan MP) for doing well in sanctioned games. After about two months, I managed to accumulated one entire MP, and with it the lofty rating ofJunior Master. By then, the quest for MPs was all-consuming. A typical week this summer went something like this: 
• Sunday afternoon-My favorite day for bridge; people bring food. Today it's Swiss teams in the B Flight. This gives each player three other people to blame instead of just one partner. We do well. I'll hear about John's brilliant play on hand six for days. 
Monday night -Small club game in Niles. This is supposed to be one ofthe easier games in the area. Not tonight. I don't want to talk about it. 
• Tuesday night -Standard club game. The club is in Town & Country Mall, just behind Godfat­her's Pizza, where it's 25 cent pitchers ofbeer tonight. We slip out before the last round to order a pizza for after the game. 

• Thurday afternoon -Another club game. I take a long lunch hour (three and a half hours) to get humiliated by the harmless grandmother-types again. 
Thursday night -lbe regular game at the Elk's Lodge is cancelled for a big charity event in Elkhart. This sort of things brings out the best players. We make them look even better. 
• Friday night -Another club game. A second place finish. More (hundredths of) MPs.John's turn to hear about my brilliance. No more games until Sunday, when the week starts over again. 
Most of the people we talk to at 

the Bridge Center claim to have 
become bridge junkies when they 
were in college. To hear them talk, 
if you didn't play bridge, you were 
practically a social outcast. 
It seems that times have changed. My roommates and I are always in search ofa fourth for a game. We accept calls from bridge players at any time of the day or night, but our phone remains disappointingly silent. 
I'm at a loss to name six bridge players on this entire campus. They say that misery loves company. I'm not sure ifmisery is the word that I'd use, but bridge junkies areal­ways looking to recruit new players. 

Letters to a lonely God 
New broo01s sweeping clean 

by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features staff writer 
I
n London, I got a letter from Notre Dame saying that Fr. Van had resigned. The next day, more mail came telling me ofthe change ofadministrators in Student Affairs. In honesty, I felt frightened. At my age, any news ofchange brings the question, "What is going to happen next?" Notre Dame is my home; Holy Cross, the C.S.C. community, is my family; this campus is the world I have chosen out of all possible worlds to live in. How gracefully could I take the news I am obsolete here? Ordinary worries become as big as circus tents when you are as far away as London. 
Getting back to New York, I found there was good news and bad news. The bad news was that the old team ofleaders in Student Af­fairs, with whom I felt so com­fortable, had stepped down; fortunately, except for Van, they were being assigned new jobs at Notre Dame. The good news was the realization I have personal ties offriendship with members of the new team; no one has to convince me how fine they are. SisterJean and I have shared many a cup of hot chocolate after Mass, in the rector's room at Farley. John and Jackie Goldrick~s children were almost charter members of the congrega­tion of moppets and urchins for whom I used to say Mass. Dave Tyson is one of the few smoking C.S.C.'s with whom I occasionally light up at breakfast in Corby. Frank Cafarelli is a member of the same Eastern province of Holy Cross I belong to. They are all new brooms, sweeping clean. Maybe I will have to reach new plateaus ofunder­standing with each of them. I trust them as friends who wish me well. 
As for the team that just turned in their uniforms, I am grateful to them all. I would like to write a word ofpraise for Jim Roemer. 
Years ago, a priest by the name of 
Fr. Collins was appointed dean of 
students. When he was congrat­
ulated on his promotion, Fr.Collins 
sounded discouraged about the 
toughness of his job. "The years in 
that office," he said, "leave you 
either dead or infirm." From that 
time on, I knew the dean ofstu­
dents was a person I should be 
concerned for. 

Jim and Mary Ann Roemer and I belong, with others, to the same prayer group. My earliest impres­sions ofJim were that in dealing with students having disciplinary problems, he could come across gently, like a father. If that approach didn't work, he could come on tough as a lawyer, spelling out the consequences ofan action in terms of a fine or a jail term. I learned to see he didn't wear two different masks. Listening to him, I started to admire a good Christian man with a lawyer's know-how and a father's caring, who was sensitive to the feelings ofstudents and their par­ents. This double-barrelled vision came out ofhis personal experi­ence. He had some idea of what if feels like to be twenty, not quite sure ofyourself, but willing to take risks. As a family man, he could imagine what it must be like to get the letter or phone call notifying you that your son or daughter is in trouble. He has the sense ofhumor to be amused by the comedies of student life, and tears to shed when the tragedies happen. He has the common sense to be tolerant. In the 
years we have lived through at Notre Dame, ifthe students and rectors hadn't had a dean ofstu­dents as kindly and honest as Jim Roemer, we would have had to invent one, if we wished to grow as an institution in wisdom and grace. It's my impression that student life is less wild than it used to he. 
Now the new team has taken the 

field, and they're doing fine, as I 
guessed they would when I thought 
about it. It's not easy, when you're 
not many years away from sixty, to 
get excited at a new leader inviting 
you to stand at attention. It feels 
like the reluctance to be responsive 
you have when students want to 
enlist your support for the newest 
project they are promoting with 
quad Masses, almsgiving, fasting, 
and the raising of consciousness. It 
would really be a sign ofage or 
burnout ifI dragged my feet, be­
coming a spectator who watches as 
the parade passes by. We arc always 
on the verge ofsomething new that 
is happening. The Catholic Church 
is presently renewing itself as 
though it were living through a 
second spring. It would be unfor­
tunate ifthe university, which 
serves a church that keeps being born again in a tired old world, isn't greater tomorrow than it is today. The hopeful news that is breaking forth as the good news ofChristian­ity, reflecting on its experience, is that grace is everywhere. Grace is in the classrooms, the dorms, the chapels, the stadium, and the fris­bee games. Grace is offered to everyone: the elderly brother, the retired nun, the coaches, the coeds in their summer dresses, the newest priest; to the members of the dear, old team, whatever they are doing; and to the members of the new team, now gloriouly reigning. Most personally exciting, grace is given to me, if I have the courage to be young ofheart, and love enough to be a faithful servant. 
It's a long, long time from June to September. I'm no longer nervous as I was in the spring. I don't know what's going to happen this year, but I'm curous to sec. I'm hopeful of being ofservice on the new frontier envisioned by the young leader taking over from Van, as once in the lifetime of the country, the young Kennedy took over from the elder statesman Ike. 




Sports Briefs 

The hockey teamwill hold an organizational meeting for all returning players and anyone else who is interested in trying out for the team. The meeting will be today at 4:30p.m. All attend­ing should report to the North Dome of the ACC, to the stands be­hind the home box. -The Observer 
The men's track team will hold an organizational meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 5, at 4:30p.m., in the ACC Football Auditorium. Students interested in either indoor or outdoor track should attend. -Tbe Observer 
The Off-Campus soccer teamis now forming. 
Anyone interested in playing this fall should see Mike Tullio today 
on the first floor ofLafortune from 12-4 p.m., or call him at 277-8491. 
-The Observer 

Stretchercise,a different kind ofexercise class featuring stretching and light exercise, is being offered by the Non-Varsity Athletic Office. The classes will be held on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5: l 0-6 p.m. at ACC Gym 4, above Gate 3. Call the NVA office at 239-5100 for more information.-Tbe Observer 
A scuba diving class is being offered by the NVA Office. The course will run for a period of six weeks and will award YMCA lifetime certification. To find out more about living under­water, come to the organizational meeting tomorrow at 6 p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial.-The Observer 
Thefirst setofdeadlineshas been announced by 
NVA. September 5 is the deadline for registration for the following sports: men's and women's interhall football, undergrad and grad­faculty singles tennis for men and women, undergrad and grad­faculty mixed doubles tennis, co-ree softball, and the 16-inch softball slow pitch tourney. September 12 is the deadline for entries for grad touch football, men's soccer, co-ree water polo, and the golf tourney. -The Observer 
I 

Monday, September 3, 1984 -page 8 
Indy Colts 

Dennis Gracewas officially named the head coach ofthe 

lose opener 

Notre Dame men's soccer team on Friday. Grace, a former assistant to Rich Hunter, will take over immediately for Hunter, who recently 

in new home 
resigned the post. Grace was a standout player for Indiana, and he has served as the head coach for Bloomsburg University in Pennsyl­
Associated Press

vania and the Midwest team in the 1980 National Sports Festival. He also held coaching positions at Tri-State University, Indiana State­
INDIANAPOliS -Pat Ryan's firstEvansville, and Clemson. -Tbe Observer start after six years in the National Football League left no doubt, he said, that New York Coach joe Wal­ton made the right choice for the vacant jets' quarterback position.
The Saint Mary's basketball teamwill hotd 
"In my mind, I'm the No.I quar­an organizational meeting this Wednesday, Sept. 5 at 7 p.m. at the terback, but once you're in the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer game, there's no difference starting than coming off the bench," said Ryan, who passed for 163 yards and two touchdowns to Mickey Shuler yesterday, carrying the Jets to a 23­
All returningwrestlersand all those interested in 
14 season-opening victory over the wrestling should report to a mandatory meeting tomorrow at 4:15 
error-prone Indianapolis Colts. 
p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. Please bring a copy of your 
"I was pleased with some things schedule. -The Observer 
but inconsistent at times with others," said Ryan. 
Walton, who picked Ryan ahead ofKen O'Brien, had no such reserva­tions about his new starter. 
"I was very pleased with the wayOfficials are needed for interhall football and soc­Pat played," said Walton. "He's toug­cer. No previous officiating experience is required. H interested, her than nails. He showed good lead­contact the NVA office at 239-6100. -Tbe Observer ership and just did a great job." 
Walton also gave a lot of credit to the jets' defense. Defensive end Mark Gastineau, who led the NFL with 19 sacks last year, had four 
against the Colts for losses of 27 today at 4: 15 p.m. behind Stepan Center. New players are welcome. 
The Notre Dame rugby club begins practice 
yards. One was for nine yards that For more information, contact Steve Schnieder at 272-0828. -The 
caused a fumble and gave the Jets 
their final touchdown in the game's closing minutes. "Gastineau did a super job," Wal­ton said. "It was tough for them to Aerobic classes for both men and women begin on 
Observer 

double-team him." Sept. 5 and 6. Classes run from 4-4:50 p.m. and 5:10-6 p.m. on Mon­
Indianapolis Coach Frank Kush days and Wednesdays. There also will be a class from 4-4:50 p.m. on 
said the Colts "played with intensity, Tuesdays and Thursdays. Classes will be held in Gym 4 of the ACC 
but the critical plays were the turn­(above Gate 3 ). Advanced registration is necessary. The cost for the 
overs on fumbles. I was extremely classes is as follows: students -S4 (half semester) or $6 (full semes­
disappointed with our specialty ter), faculty and staff-$13 {half semester) or $25 (full semester). 
teams (which continually allowed Register at the NVA office. -The Observer 
the jets good field position starting their drives)." 
Tbf! Obsert>er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified ad\·ertising from 9 a.m. until4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsen-er Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Uaggar College Center, accepts classifieds from l.L~O p.m. umil 3 p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for nt:xt·day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 l·ents per five charac·



Classifieds 
ters r da . 

HELP WANTED: FUU OR PART-TIME COOK. APPLY MACRI'S DELl, UNIVER­Shr 2Bdr hse 1.5 miles to NO 2n-8795
L.---_No_T_IC_Es-----~1 \ LOST/FOUND TICKETS PERSONALS
SITY CENTER, MISHAWAKA. 2n-7273.
FURNISHED BASEMENT ROOM FOR 
TWO STUDENTS. CAU232-6193. 
Here lies the Notre Dame student of yes­LOST: BLUE SUIT BAG Willi BROWN The Observer is accepting applica·
terday, oow extinct. It you think-of it, have TRIM, SENT ON PHILA. CLUB TRUCK. I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI lions for the position of design assis·OWEN MURRAY/BOB GUILDAY OR
a Coke torhim. GAMEJ!J!!I CAU MARIPAT AT 2n-2581 WANTED: PERSON(S) TO SHARE tant. Please submit a letter detailing
ANYONE WITH INFO PLEASE CON­2 BEDROOM HOME.$275. MO. & $275 
OR 239-7471.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
RIDE AND EXPENSES FROM your layout experience by 5 p.m.
DEPOSIT.272-6306 KALAMAZOO. Ml TO SOUTH BEND,
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? TACT PAT FINNAN -426 FISHER $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Tuesday, Sept. 4. Questions? Contact(3079).
LeaderShip Training! Challenge! Ad­IND DAILY. CAU DIANE 239-7560. Margaret at the LaFortune Observer venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob 

office. Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the NEEDED! FOOTBALL TIX FOR THE 
ROTC Building. (23~64) UNDERGRADUATES, LAW STU­PENN STATE GAME. CAU VINCE AT MORRISSEY LOAN FUND DENTS, PROFESSORS, STAFF PER· 
1233. $20-200 student loans Ale you in need of FINANCIAL AID? MISSING: TAN & WHITE KITTEN SONNEL, SECRETARIES SECURITY Due in 30 Days
Part-time telemarketers needed for day &
LeaderShip Training! Challenge! Ad­(FEMALE) LAST SEEN IN N.D. AVE/SO. GUARDS, and squirrels. The NEW YORK 1/lnterestevening shifts. Make up to $12.00 per
venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob BEND AVE (N.D. APTS) AREA ON MON­TIMES WIU DELIVER your copy of the Open 11:30-12:30 M-F 
hour. Cal1287-9010. 

Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman In the DAY, AUG 27. LIGHT TIGER times lor only 35cents on weekdays. The
HAS Basement LaFortune ROTC Building. (239-6264) MARKINGS, STITCHES ON RIGHT Times guarantees delivery to your room, NEEDED: 4 GA FOOTBAU TICKETS SIDE OF NECK, AND BLACK PLASTIC aflice, carrot, mailbox department office, FOR MIAMI GAME. CAU ANNE 2822 or tree before 8A.M. the day of publica­
BRIDGE BRIDGE BRIDGE ANTI-SCRATCH COLLAR. PLEASE CLASS OF 1985-DON'T MISS THE Who says there's nothing to do? Call CAU MARK AT 281H084 Willi ANY IN­tion. It's never too late to order so come Needed: 1 or 2 Purdue tix: Mark x1154 SECOND ANNUAL SENIOR INFOR­
Needed desperately TWO TIX for the
Town & Country Bridge Center at 255-FORMATION. THANKS. on, stay up with the TIMES, contact MAL, SEPT 28-30 IN THE 'WINDY CITY' 8613 for more information. George Devenny at 145 Stanford Hall Needed: 2So. CarolineGAa; Markx1154 !! SIGN-UPS BEGIN THURSDAY. 
PENN STATE game. Will pay$$$$$ CBII Nancy at 2169. 
283-2094 
Well, something's the matter, 

HELP! NEED 1 STUDENT PURDUE 
But nothing gets done. STUDENT 10 and MONEY lost~ TICKET. CAU TRACY AT 2n-7232.
APPLICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT 
Evetyone's waiting 
AT IRISH GARDENS ARE AVAILABLE 11:00 and 1:00 on FRIDAY AUG 31 in 

For aplace in the sun.
IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

FOR SALE
either CUSHING or LIBRARY AUD. 
NEED ONLY 1 TICKET FOR PURDUEOFFICES IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE 
Belongs to me and wou!Ggreat-ly appre­WANTED GAMECML2n-46nAL~ 
-SuperlnlmpRETURN BY TUESDAY SEPT. 4TH. 

ciate return-TROY IUIG 209 ST. ED's 
FINANCIAL AID FORMS A MUST. 

Cold ones await the flndee!!!!! HELP! MY LITTLE BROTHER IS COM· FOR SALE: Brown plaid love seat,
································································ 
lNG AU THE WAY FROM
SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming $75.00; Velvet celery green chair, $50.00. THE WORD IS NEST. IT IS COMINGIRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­SACRAMENTO TO SEE THE NO -Good condition. SEPT. 8. DON'T MISS IT.
/R/SH GARDENS APPLICATIONS ARE ships? See l TC Bob Skinner or CPT COLORADO GAME, BUT I'U NEED A Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-TICKET. CAU DENISE AT 1330. FUDGE PACKING FEVER... CATCH NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT 

GOVERNMENT OFFICES OF 

6264) IT!!!
LAFORTUNE FOR EMPLOYMENT AT 


FOR RENT
IRISH GARDENS 64-85. DEADLINE IS 
WEDS. SEPT 5. FINANCIAL AID HI Jllnl

239-5930 FORMS A MUST. 
I NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE & ALL 291-9644 Guess Who...
l1'8Yell !'REEl TI'8Yell Earn high com­HOME GAMES.272-6306 
HOUSE FOR RENT; 4-5 BDRM, miMiona & FREE tripe promoUngWALKING DISTANCE TO NO. BAlli 
Winter and Spring Braak aid and aun NEED TICKETS TO ANY NO HOME
AND HALF EXCEPTIONALLY CLEAN. 
EUROPE'85111

GRADUATE STUDENTS! The NEW tripe. SUNCHASE TOURS CAMPUS GAME CAU JOHN 3335. 
LG LIVING AM/KITCHEN. $93.75 PER 
YORK TIMES, the World's 1 newspaper, REP. poaltlona available. CALL TOLL ARE YOU LOOKING FOR SOME COOL 
STUDENT PER MO PLUS UTILITIES. 
is available for delivery to your depart· FREE 800-321-5111. NEED 5 TIX FOR AIRFORCE $$$ call PARTY SHADES OR SOMETHING TO
PH 287-7178 ENAD KATHY: GOOD LUCK TONIGHTment mailbox or any other convenient 

SMC5264 CUT THE TROUBLESOME GLARE? IF AGAINST PURDUE. I'M BRINGING AU
place on campus for only 35 cents on WANTED: GERMAN TYPIST to SO, CONTACT YOUR LOCAL CLASSIC OF MY FRIENDS TO THE GAME SOweekdays. The TIMES guarantees to transpose large German index from cards NO GRAD NEEDS TO BUY OR TRADE SUN GLASSES REP AT 1172. GREAT MAKE ME PROUD OF YOU · I WANT TO 
deliver your paper before 8A.M. the clay of to computer. Phone 288-92n. FOR 4 PURDUE TIX FOR REUNION GLASSES AT GREAT PRICES! 
SEE YOU HITTING THEM STRAIGHT

publication. It's never too late to order. Furnished House· Just became available WITH ROOMMATES. CAU RON AT DOWN!
Simply contact George Devenny at 145 • 5 bdrm, 2 bath $350 per mo. Call 2n-3301 MAXELLXL22.751150 
Stanford Hall 283-2094 3461 or collect 616-445-8283 MY LONG LOST BROTHER HAS BEEN FOUND. HE WALKED ALL THE WAY

························ 
WANTED: Female roommate to share I am in dire need of a Notre Dame vs. BACK FROM VIETNAM, AND HIS NO SHENANIGANS WIU BE HOLDING 
living expenses in furnished house. 10 Purdue ticket. Please contact Joseph Ir­CARPET REMNANTS for sale. Three ONLY WISH IS TO SEE A NOTRE AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING lUES STUDENT HOUSES. SEMI· minutes from campus. $150.00 includes win a1 336 Zahm Hall, 283-1065. sizes, brown. Used last semester. Call DAME FOOTBALL GAME. It you have a 9/4 IN 242 O'SHAG. AU INTERESTED FURNISHED. NEEDS PAINTING. utilities. 288-8461 or 233-4028 eves. student ticket or a G.A. for the Miami SINGERS, DANCERS, MUSICIANS, W/FURNISH MATERIALS. CALL DAYS 239-5930 NEED 4 GA TIX FOR COLORODO-WIU game please call Sarah at 1333. Think of TECHNICIANS & CHOREOGRAPHERS 
272.0100. ASK FOR MRS. OLSON. 291-9644 BUY OR TRADE FOR S.C. TIX-RICK Royal Medallion Electric Typewriter it as an act of patriotism, selling your ticket WELCOME. 7:00P.M. 
CAll EVENINGS 272-9222. 4384 $100.00 232-8855 or 284-4668 to a vet. 
The Observer Monday, September 3, 1984 -page 9 


Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN LEAOUE Eaal 

w L Detroit 88 49 Toronto 79 57 Baltimore 73 62 New York 72 63 Boeton 72 64 Cleveland 61 77 Milwaukee 66 80 
Wnt Minnesota 69 67 Kansas City 66 66 Calllorn1a 67 66 Ch1cago 63 72 Oakland 63 74 Texas 61 74 Seanle 60 77 
Saturday'• R..uno Toronto 12. Minnesota 4 Boston 4, Cleveland 1 Oakland 7, DetrOit 5 Ch1cago 6, Kansas City 1 Texas 8, Milwaukee 4 California 11, New York 6 Seanle 10, Bell1more 9 
Sunday'a R..ulto Toronto 6. Minnesota 0 KansasC1ty6, Chlcago4, 101nn1ngs Cleveland 8, Booton 3 New York 5, Callforn1a 3 Detroit&, Oakland 3 Ba1t1more 4, Seanle 3 Milwaukee, Texas, postponed 
NATlONAL LEAOUE Eaal 
.Pet. 08 w L .642 -Chicago 82 S4 .581 8.5 NewYork 77 59 .S41 14 Philadelphia 73 62 .533 15 St. Louis 66 66 .529 15.5 Montreal 67 66 .442 27.5 Pinsburgh 58 78 .412 31.5 Wnt 
San Diego 78 59 .507 -Houston 69 66 500 1 Atlanta 66 70 .496 1.5 Los Angeles 64 73 .467 5.5 San Francisco 57 79 
460 6.5 Cincinnati 57 60 .452 7.5 .438 9.5 
Saturday'• Rnulta Los Angeles 4, Montreal3 Chicago 4, Atlanta 1 
New York 7, San Diego 4, lsi New York 10, San Diego 6, 2nd San Francisco 7, Philadelphia 2 Cincinnati 7, Pinsburgh 5, 11 innings Houston 8, St. Louis 4 
Sunday'• R11ulta Montreal 4, Los Angeles 0 Cincinnati 7, PiHsburgh 1 Philadelphia 6, San FranciSCO 3 New York3, San Diego2, 12 innings Chicago 4, Atlanta 2 St. Louis 4, Houston 1 Pet. OB .603 .566 5 .S41 8.5 .507 13 .496 14.5 .426 24 

.569 .504 9 .485 11.5 .467 14 .419 20.5 
416 21 
At U.S. Open 

McEnroe and Connors win easily 
Associated Press 
New York · Top-seeded John McEnroe and defending champion Jimmy Connors posted straight-set victories, while Great Britain's John Lloyd upsetJohan Krick yesterday to move into the fourth round of the S2.55 million U.S. Open Tennis Championships. 
Also posting third-round victories yesterday on the hardcourts at the National Tennis Center were ninth· seeded Henrik Sundstrom of Sweden, No. 13 Tomas Smid ofCzec­hoslovakia, No. 14 Anders Jarryd of Sweden. and Robert Green, a qualifier from Brookline, Mass. 
The final fourth-round spot in the men's singles was decided last night when Guillermo Vilas of Argentina played Gene Mayer in a battle of unseeded players. 
Connors swept past Henri Leconte ofFrance 6-4, 6-1, 7-6 in his bid to win his third consecutive U.S. 
Clothingfor all occasions 
AT PRICES YOU'LL LAUGH AT! 

• 

GOODWILL EDDVST. MON-THURS 9-7 FRI9-8 SAT 9-5:30 

Can you picture yourself 3Winging down a ~lifl? Or flying in a helicopter? Or crossing a river using only a rope and you own two hanC:s? 
We have done all thts in Notre Dame ROTC and invite you to do it wi :.h us . 
Arm] ROTC ~cholar­ships pay full tuiti~n while ~au ~earn adven­ture s~ills. management and leadct"ship. 
The Eh~lls you learn iu Anny ROTC will help you realize your full potentidl as a leader. 
Afi:Pr ynu're comtni.s­sion<!d as an Anny Offi­cer you'll have an enriching oppcrtunity to get the kind of expecience you'll need for a military career and Pxpecience that private employers valuP. 
For more l~tormation conta:t your rr0fessor of Military Science. 
ARMY ROTC. 
BEALLYOU CAM BE. 
Call: ITC : -:>1, Sk1nner or CPT Ar.na Rieman 239-6264 
Open title and sixth overall. The left­where they were joined by two bander never was in trouble against unseeded players, Czechoslovakia's his French opponent, who al­Helena Sukova and Susan Mascarin. ternated brilliant winners with Shriver eliminated Peanut Louie sloppy play. 6-3, 7-5; Kohde-Kilsch downed 
A subdued McEnroe, in perfect Sweden's Caterina Lindqvist 2-6, 6­control of his game and his on-court 2, 6-2; Bonder defeated South behavior, breezed past "lucky loser" Mrican Yvonne Vermaak 6-I, 6-0; 
Kevin Moir of South Africa 6-3, 6-0, Turnbull stopped South Africa's 6-3, while Lloyd, after dropping the Beverly Mould 6-3, l-6, 6-I; Potter opening set, won the second-set tie· ousted fellow American Patty Fen­breaker 12-10 en route to posting a dick 6-2, 4-6, 6-2; Sukova toppled 2-6, 7-6, 6-2, 6-3 victory over Krick, 14-year-old Gabriela Sabatini of Ar­the 1981 and 1982 Australian Open gentina 6-4, 6-4; and Mascarin champion. downed Romania's Virginia Ruzici 6· 
It is the second straight year 2, 3-6,6-2. Lloyd, husband of Chris Evert Lloyd, The fourth-round pairings will has gained the fourth round here. send top-seeded Martina Nav­
Sundstrom defeated Israel's ratilova against Potter, Bonder Shahar Perkiss 7-6, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4; against Sukova, Shriver against Mas­Smid ousted Tom Gullikson 4-6, 6-4, carin and Turnbull against Kohde· 7-6, 6-4; Nystrom downed Sandy Kitsch in the top half of the draw. 
..._

Mayer 5·7, 5·7, 6-3, 6-3, 6-0 and In the bottom half, Petra Delhees Green surprised Australian John Jauch ofSwitzerland will face No. 14 Fitzgerald 4-6, 6-4,6-3, 7-6. Carling Bassett of Canada. Lori 
In women's singles, fourth-seeded McNeil will play No. 3 Hana Pam Shriver, No. 8 Claudia Kohde­Mandlikova ofCzechoslovakia, West Kilsch of West Germany, No.9 Lisa Germany's Sylvia Hanika will take on Bonder, No. 13 Wendy Turnbull of Petra Huber of Austria and No. 12 
Australia, and No. 1 5 Barbara Potter Bonnie Gadusek will place Chris also moved into the fourth round, Evert Lloyd, the No. 2 seed. 


Tigers confident about AL East division 'race' 
Associated Press 
Detroit had just battered the Oak· land A's 12-6 and Tigers' right· bander Milt Wilcox, who had posted a career-high 14th victory, was saying that the team didn't know how good it was. 
And he was serious. 

"We've got guys on this team who are just starting to hit," Wilcox said. ''I'm just now beginning to pitch the way I thought I could pitch my whole career. Who can say how good we are?" 
With less than a month to go in the regular major league season, the Tigers appear destined to lead the American League East Division from start to finish. 
With their magic number for clinching the division title rapidly diminishing, it no longer is a ques­tion of whether the Tigers will win the pennant, but by how much. 
"The distance between us and the (runner-up) Toronto Blue Jays has made for a relaxed atmosphere," said Tigers' catcher Lance Parrish. "Everybody on our club is aware of where we are right now. I don't believe anybody on our club believes they (the Blue Jays) are going to catch us." 
The race in the AL east was essen­tially over after the first 40 games, as the Tigers raced to a record-setting 35-5 record. From that point on, Detroit could have played .500 ball and won 96 games. 
By the end of August, the Tigers were in position to play .500 the rest of the way and win more than I00 games. The Baltimore Orioles won the title last year with a 98-64 mark. 
Toronto's problem has been in­consistent relief-23 ofthe Blue Jays' defeats this year have been charged to the relievers, making their failure to win the bidding war for fireballing 
Rich  Gossage  last  winter  all  the  
more painful.  
'lbe  collapse  of  the  Orioles  

centers on a collapse of both pitch· ing and hitting. The Orioles' offense has been so weak that Rich Dauer, the good-field. no-hit infielder, is third on the club in hits, but his average is only about .250. Eddie Murray and Cal Ripkin just haven't been able to carry the Orioles' attack by themselves, and the team's bat­ting average has fallen to last in the American League. 
'lbe Orioles head into the final month of the season locked in a bat· tie for third place with the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox. If the Yankees fail, Manager Yogi Berra may be fired. If the Red Sox fail, Manager Ralph Houk may retire. 

Third-ranked Pitt falls to Brigham Young 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH · Robbie Bosco, the latest in a long line of Brigham Young's prolific passers, rifled a 50­yard touchdown pass to Adam Hays­bert with 1:37 left in the game Saturday as the Cougars rallied from an 11-point deficit to shock third· ranked Pittsburgh 20-14. 
Pitt, expected to contend for the national college football champion­ship, turned two third-quarter inter­ceptions into touchdowns to take a I4-3lead, but BYU came back. 
Bosco, a junior making his first start after playing behind All­American Steve Young in 1983, completed 25 of 45 passes for 325 yards and two scores. 
BYU cut Pitt's lead w 14-9 wht·n Bosco threw to Lakci Hcimuli with 
4:53 to go in the third quarter. BYll, after forcing a Pitt punt, drove from its 17 to tht· Panther 6 but dected to go for a field goal on a fourth-and· goal. Lee Johnson's 23-yard kick cut Pitt's lead to 14-12 with 9: I 5 to play. Bosco throws of 35 yards to Glen Kozlowski and 22 yards to Richard Orr keyed the winning drive. 
The Cougars needed just five plays to cover the 74 yards on the game-winning drive, with Haysbert heating cornerback Keith Tinsley for the TD, one of nine receptions for 14 I yards. 
BYU led 3·0 at the half on johnson's 3'7-yard field goal. 
Bill Callahan's 78-yard return of a Bosco pass with just over three minutes gone in the second halfgave Pitt a 7·3 kad. Pitt then made it 14-5 less than three minutl"~ later aftt-r Tinsley's 20-yard interception return to the BHI 20. A 14-yard Con· gemi to Chuck Scales pass set up Bailey's !-yard run with 8:31 left in the period. 
The Observer Sports Extra -Beginning of an Era? Monday, September 3, 1984-page 10 
Notre Dame finds its man 
The athletic department aims toward top and picks Lambert to lead climb 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
A coach who has been successful in the past can usually produce a winner wherever he goes. Notre Dame hopes this will be the case with new head volley­ball coach Art Lambert. 
Lambert has been chosen to lead the team as it strives to become a national contender. 
"We're competing at the highest level in men's foot­ball and basketball," said Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan, "and we wanted a second women's sport in addition to basketball in which we could try to attain national recognition. We're making a serious commitment. We'll be offering the NCAA maximum in scholarships, which is 12. We're especially excited about having someone with Art's knowledge and expe­rience lead the way because he came so highly recom­mended." 
The 48-year-old Lambert returns to coaching after a five-year absence, and will try to bring to Notre Dame the success that has followed him everywhere. 
A San Fransisco native, Lambert earned both bis un­

dergraduate and master's degrees at San Jose State. After 
spending time in the service, he took the job as water 
polo coach at Awalt High School in Mountain View, 
Calif., simply because "the thing I'd done all my life was 
athletics." 
While there, Lambert guided his team to four straight state championships. He continued his coaching career at DeAnza College in Cupertino, Calif., where he served as both swimming and water polo coach. 
He served as coach of the United States water polo team at the 1967 Pan American Games, and led the team to a gold medal. He also guided the United States Olym­pic water polo team, leading the USA to a fifth-place finish in 1968 and a bronze medal in 1972. 
In 1973, he moved on to become water polo coach at Stanford University, and continued his amazing success. His teams won two Pac-1 0 titles and took home the NCAA championship in 1976. 
Lambert began his volleyball coaching career in 1974, as he took over the duties as head coach of the Cardinal men's volleyball team. 
"I always had played volleyball," says Lambert, "and it struck me as something that would be fun to coach." 
He took over the women's volleyball duties as well in 1976, as the program moved from the club level to the varsity level. Success followed him into the volleyball arena, as his teams consistently qualified for both regional and national honors. 
After five rewarding years at Stanford, however, Lam­bert left Palo Alto and entered the real estate business. 
"Costs were skyrocketing, especially in the Bay Area," says Lambert, "and when I couldn't get a raise I had to do something." 
Lambert resided in Sandpoint, Idaho, and coached several United States Volleyball Association teams over the next five years. He enjoyed the Sandpoint area, but when Notre Dame called he decided to make the move to South Bend. 
"I accepted because it is something I enjoy doing," says Lambert. "I love teaching. I love coaching. I didn't enjoy sitting behind a desk, so I made the move." 
Lambert had been offered many jobs in the time pre­vious to Notre Dame's offer, but had never really con­sidered them. 
"I had had solicitations from other schools," says Lambert, "but none I really wanted to accept. I had promised myself after I left Stanford that if I ever returned to coaching, I would return at a comparable school." 
Asked about his experiences so far here at the Univer­sity, Lambert has nothing but the highest praise. 
"This is a great place to work," he says. "The support I have received from the students, the administration and the athletic department is something I never had before, not even at Stanford. It is a small school, and there is a tremendous amount of spirit. I feel very for­tunate to be here." 
And, if he lives up to his advance billing, Notre Dame will feel very fortunate to have him. 

The 19841rish 
NAME  HT.  
Kathy Baker  5-9  
Tracy Bennington  5-9  
Mary Jo Hensler  5-7  
Gretchen Kraus  5-9  
Josie Maternowski  5-8  
Mary McLaughlin  5-9  
Mollie Merchant  5-5  
Kathleen Morin  5-11  
Karen Sapp  5-9  
Jill Suglich  5-8  
Jane Weldon  5-11  


Irish 
continued from page 12 

squad, Josie Maternowski and Mary Jo Hensler. 
"Josie will start," says Lambert. "She has been working hard, playing very well, and is one of our headiest players. Hensler is also coming along very nicely after a slow start." 
Sophomore Mollie Merchant and freshmen Kathy Baker, Kathleen Morin, and jane Weldon will also be in the running for spots as outside Lambert. "Kathy Baker, a freshman, probably has the most experience on the team, only because she has played with the California Junior team. That really shows you how in­experienced the team is." 
CL.  HOMETOWN  
Fr.  Fountain Valley, CA  
Jr.  Colorado Springs, CO  
Sr.  Cincinnati, OH  
Fr.  Maumee, OH  
Sr.  South Bend, IN  
Jr.  Santa Barbara, CA  
So.  Laguna Beach, CA  
Fr.  Mishawaka, IN  
So.  Temperance, Ml  
Fr.  Chicago, IL  
Fr.  Evansville, IN  

Although some ofthe Irish are fine leapers, play at the net appears to be the team's weakness this year. 
"For us to win," says Lambert, "we've got to keep the ball in play. We won't be able to play at the net with other teams. We don't have the leaping ability we should have for our size. So we'll have to serve ag­gressively, keep the ball in play, and let the other team make the 


WANTED: A third money-making sport to go along with thefootball and basketball programs. Must be able to draw a large amount oflocal residents as well as students to home games. In order to do this, must be able to compete with the best in the country. Ifyour sportfulfills these requirements, call the Notre Dame athletic department as soon as possible. 
Traditionally, college athletic departments arc split into two groups: major sports and minor sports. In order for a sport to be considered "major," it must fulfill a number of require­ments, all of which are interrelated. First, it must be able to field a team that can compete with the best in the country. Second, it must schedule games with the other top teams. Third, it must generate enough spectator interest that admis­sion can be charged to home games. Finally, it must be able to pay its own bills and, hopefully, some of the bills of the "minor" sports with the money it earns. 
In the present world of college athletics, it's becoming in­creasingly important for a school to have a third major sport. Costs for even the most minor ofsports are rising all the time. Some schools, especially those on the West Coast, have had some luck with third and even fourth major sports, but most schools are struggling and have reached the point where they must drop a program or two. 
Notre Dame has been fortunate that its football and basket­ball programs have been such big moneymakers. Both teams are among the most profitable of their kind in the country. Still, the past few years have seen a decline in the amount of money the sports bring in. One bowl game and no NCAA Tournaments have hurt. Obviously, it would be nice to have a third major sport to act as insurance in case the other two falter. 
Notre Dame hasn't been so fortunate in finding a third major sport that can sustain itself, though. The athletic depart­ment decided the hockey program was not making money and knocked it down to the minor sport level again. The depart-

Mike Sullivan 

ment also seems to feel that soccer could not serve as a moneymaker over the long run so it hasn't put much money into the program. It has put money into women's basketball, but that sport hasn't been able to generate much fan interest at this point. 
However, Art Lambert thinks he knows what sport can be Notre Dame's third major sport -volleyball. Lambert, you see, is the new volleyball coach. He is the person to whom the future of volleyball at ND is entrusted. Ifthe program doesn't take off with Lambert leading it, it will never take off. 
"Volleyball is the only sport here besides (football and bas­ketball) that can make money," says Lambert almost matter­of-factly. "The only other one I can think of -women's gymnastics-they don't have here." 
Lambert's view might seem a little biased, but he may not be too far from the truth. Volleyball does seem to have a bright future. 
One indication that volleyball can be big is the support and excitement the sport generated in the Olympics. Not only was the Long Beach Arena packed for every day ofvolleyball com­petition, but ABC's coverage also spent a good deal of time with both the men's and women's teams. By the time the American teams reached the gold-medal games, the popular gymnastics competition was long over and volleyball became one ofthe most popular events of the Games. 
This, ofcourse, isn't enough evidence to prove that volley­ball has a bright future. After all, you would expect volleyball to be popular in Southern California. But you wouldn't expect volleyball to be a fan favorite in Kalamazoo, Mich., would you? Yes, Kalamazoo, home of the Mid-American Conference champs Western Michigan. Kalamazoo, about one hour from South Bend, where 5,000 people turned out for one match and where an average of more than 1,000 people per game gathered to watch the Broncos play some of the best volley­ball east ofCalifornia. 
"Our immediate goal is to get to the level of Western Mic­higan," says Lambert, showing a picture of the Broncos playing in front of a packed house. "They may have the best team in the Midwest this year." 
The success ofvolleyball at WMU shows that volleyball can be popular in the Midwest and that there is volleyball talent in the area. Contrary to the common opinion that all the volley­ball talent is in the West, Lambert feels that the Midwest is full oftalent. "As far as volleyball, the Midwest is this far away from the West," he says, holding his index finger and thumb less than one-half inch apart. "There's this Calfornia mystique about volleyball right now, but the only thing that hurts the Midwest is the caliber of competition. Here we don't quite have it yet, but it's just around the corner." 
Without a doubt, however, Notre Dame is looking toward the top in volleyball. The athletic department has announced it will supply the maximum amount of scholarships ( 12) and will be upgrading the schedule every year. The school also is planning to help improve the volleyball programs around South Bend (where there is already plenty of talent), possibly using the programs as a feeder system. 
So the pressure is on Lambert and his program. Ifvolleyball can't cut it as a profitable sport, there probably isn't another sport at ND that can in the near future. Obviously, it will take some building, but there is so much untapped talent in the Midwest that it might not be too long before ND volleyball is one ofthe top programs in the country. 
~~~C3l~-----------------------------------------M_o_n_d_a.y,_s_e•p-te_m
__be_r_3_._1_9_s_4___P_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 





lATER, H€ WAUOWS IN 11f6 WUCO.tl€ MVNIMNifY OF ll 
CIIOCOI.ATE-CHif COOK/€. 0 
~~ 
Tank McNamara jeffHillar & Bill Hinds 



The Far Side Gary Larson 



"Quit complaining and eat itl , . Number one, chicken soup is goOd for the flu -and number two, it's nobody welc:now." 
"Darn!" The radio's been 
ripped off again." 

The Daily Crossword 
33 Wells' "The 48 "Bombs War of-" bursting-"ACROSS 37 "The Man Who 2 Elevated terrain 34 More un· -Be King" 3 Galena is one 49 Ingenuouspleasant1 Corvlne 38 Check 4 Temporal 50 Revolve 
creature 39 TheWest 5 Bellowing 
35 Inflict 51 Festive event 5 First family 41 Cutdown 6 Obscure 37 I or II 52 Olympic games member 42 Marble 7 Part of NATO: 40 Hold up in use site of old 
9 Out 43 Formerly, once abbr. 41 Gossip 53 "Jacques­13 Arab capital 44 Vast expanse 8 Part ola 44 Same as 27D Is Alive ..." 14 Pro-45 Pontiff's movie title 46 Synthetic Iabrie 57 Single15 Angry vestment 9 Kind of flu 47 Brackish 58 Ziegleld
16 Hades 47 World·­

10 Weltan·
18 "La Douce" (momentous) Friday's Solution 
schauung
19 Scott Joplin 51 -Manley 

11 Weapon: Fr. 
opus Hopkins 

12 -of the rat 
53 Max or Buddy20 Reporter's 54 Certain vote 13 See 38A 

source 55 Confederate 17 Vetch

21 Onetime Nan· 56 New Orleans 22 Coloredtucket sight event 24 -tlronianae23 Kitchen 59 lt. resort (old Rome appliance 60 Dill, old style shorthand)25 Injury 61 "Man-!" 25 Former NYC 26 Ogygian 

62 Org. daily 27 Additional 63 Count (on) 27 Cast off 28 Ex·GI 
64 Eld 

29 Actress Adams 
31 Despicable 

30 Cultivate
34 Global DOWN 

31 Catamaran <£.1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
913/84 


36-Khan 32 Taj Mahal site All Rights Reserved 1 Erie or Panama 

\**********************************: 
~ *
The DOME ~ * 
: Dave Bergland : 
~ *
is looking for 
:PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
dedicated peopl : for the Libertarian Party : 
~ * 
~ *
to join the 
~ * 
: will be speaking :
yearbook staff. ~ ~ * 
~ * 
: WASHINGTON HALL : : Monday, September 3 :
Call Mike at 

~ 7:00p.m. ~ 
239· 7085 or 272·0694 

~ * 
:**********************************~ 
Campus 
•7 
p.m.-Speech, Dave Bergland, Presidential Can­didate for the Libertarian Party, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Volleyball, ND Women vs. Purdue, ACC Auxiliary Gym. 

•7 
p.m.-FUm, "The Great Dictator," Annenberg Auditorium, Monday Night Film Series I. 

•
7 p.m.· I 0 p.m. -Acdvides Night, Stepan Center. 

•9 
p.m. -FUm, "Duck Soup," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Monday Night Film Se­ries II. 


TV Tonight 
4 
4

6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 News 46 Jim Bakker 
6:30p.m. 16 M"A*S*H 22 Family Feud 
7:00p.m. 16 1V Bloopers & Practical Jokes 22 Scarecrow and Mrs. King 46 The700Ciub 
8:00p.m. 16 Oh God! Book ll 22 Kate & Allie 46 lester Sumrall Teaching 
8:30p.m. 22 Newhart 46 Calvary Temple 9:00p.m. 22 Cagney & Lacey 46 Today With lester Sumrall 
!O:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 News 46 Ught& Uvely 
10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 U.S. Open 46 Church Growth International 
ll:OOp.m. 22 The World's Greatest Lover 
46 Praise the Lord 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David letterman 12:30a.m. 16 Allin The: Family 


THE ANSWER IS 
I ;f f 
vn11 
YOU 
HELP SAVE BABIES 




t t 
Tbe Irish volleyball team, shown here in last year's home opener, opens the 1984 season tonight against Purdue at 7 p.m. in the ACC Arena. Tbe Irish, with theftnandal support ofthe 

Beginning of an era? 
ND volleyball, under first-year coach Lambert, begins building toward top 
With a new head coach and many 
•a.~•:m.cu young players, the Notre Dame volleyball team kicks off the 1984 season tonight with high 
for a successful year. 
a poor season in 1983, in 
the Irish finished with an 11· 
record, the Notre Dame athletic 
decided to make a 
commitment to volleyball. 
"We've talked to volleyball 
people all around the country, and 
we're now prepared to do the kind 
of things that will enable us to com­
with the top teams in the lr.rmnu-v" said Notre Dame Athletic 
Gene Corrigan last spring 
the department decided to 
its move. 
The most important change in the has been the hiring of Art Lambert the drive for success on the ln:ati•onal level. He comes to Notre 
after a five-year absence from 
•u,,..,.,.. coaching. Starting in 1973, enjoyed five very success-years at Stanford University, 
he coached water polo, men's ""·"---·•·-" and women's volleyball. 

The task ahead of Lambert is not an easy one, as the schedule this year is the most difficult Notre Dame has ever faced. The Irish at this point do not appear to have the talent to be successful competing against the top teams in the country, so Lam­bert's primary job will be to lay the groundwork for the future. 
"This was a Division III program for quite awhile, and only last year moved to Division I," says Lambert. "The girls are all playing better and are giving 110 percent. But if we wish to be a national contender, we'll have to get more talent." 
Nevertheless, the talent that is present should provide for a suc­cessful first year under Lambert. 
Lambert's first job was to find a setter for his 5-1 offense, which in­volves one person setting for the other five. As the one player on the floor who handles the ball every play, a good setter is crucial in plans for a successful team. 
"Setters make hitters," explains Lambert. "If you have a great setter, you have a great team. Ifyou have an average setter, you get an average-to-poor team." 
Freshman Jill Suglich earned the 
job in practice after bringing impres· 
Season opener tonight 

Tough Boilermakers visit Irish 
The Notre Dame volleyball team, under the direction of first-year Art Lambert, opens its 1984 tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC The young and inexperi-Irish, who are struggling to a firm foothold in Division I, right into the fire in the opener play host to powerful 
"P.•rnln.. has one of the two best 
teams in the Midwest," 
Lambert. "I know they'll be tough on us because they smoked us last year ( 15-0, 15-1, 15-2)." 
The Boilermakers, who finished 
in the nation two years ago, did not fare quite as well last year but still wound up in the top twenty. 
Carol Dewey lost only two 

players from that squad, however, and the Boilermakers should chal­lenge for the national title once again. 
If a team's setter is the most im­portant player on the court, then Purdue should be in excellent shape as its veteran setter Annette Bauer returns for her fourth year as a starter. Three other players who started last year return also. Juniors Kim Corwin and Marianne Smith, and senior Kate Crandell should make things tough on the Irish. 
Lambert's squad is going to have to figure out a way to throw the talented Boilermakers off track. His squad is badly outmatched at the net and will have to use its speed to compensate for lack ofheight. 
Bearing the brunt of the burden will be junior Mary McLaughlin, who will start as setter for the first sive prep credentials with her from Chicago. But problems with her ac­hilles tendon will force her to miss the home opener tonight against Purdue. So Lambert has tabbed junior Mary McLaughlin, previously a hitter, to start as setter·against the Boilermakers. 
"Mary has never played setter before," says Lambert, "but she has good hands. She has a lot of savvy and a good head on her shoulders." 
The rest of the squad will be con­sidered either middle hitters or outside hitters. 
Three players-Tracy Bennington, Karen Sapp, and Gretchen Kraus ­will contend for playing time at middle hitter. Bennington, a junior, will aid the team greatly at the net with her excellent leaping ability. Sapp comes off a good freshman year, and also should threaten at the net with her jumping ability and strength. Freshman Kraus will look for playing time after an impressive career at Central Catholic High School in Maumee, Ohio. 
Lambert will have six players to choose from at outside hitter, in­cluding the two seniors on the 
see IRISH, page 10 

going to have to keep them off bal­ance. 
Senior Josie Maternowski will join McLaughlin in the starting lineup, but, beyond that, the other positions are still up in the air. 
Lambert realizes that his squad is not as talented as Purdue's but he will make sure that the Irish put pressure on the visitors. 
"We have to serve aggressively and make them make mistakes," he says. "Ifwe go down, we'll go down aggressively." 
Tonight's game is the first of two games over the next two days for Irish. Tomorrow night they tain IU-PU Indianapolis at 7 p.m. the Arena. 
Monday, September 3, 1984-page 12 
Beuerlein heads up 
quarterback corps 
ByJOE BRUNETTI 
Sportswriter 

Most college football coaches might feel a little uneasy starting a sophomore as their quarterback, but when the signal caller is Steve Beuerlein there is no need to feel nervous. 
Beuerlein may be only a sopho­more, but he has more experience than many junior and senior quarter­backs around the country. After the Irish suffered early season losses to Michigan State and Miami in 1983, Beuerlein earned the starting bid in the Colorado game, and guided the Irish to a 27-3 win while connecting on eight of 12 passes for 133 yards. 
The Californian also led the Irish 
to consecutive wins against South 
Carolina, USC, Navy, and Army. In 
addition, he didn't throw his first in­
terception until his 77th pass of the 
season. He also didn't throw an in­
terception in five ofthe ten games in 
which he played. 

"I'm very pleased with Steve," of­fensive coordinator Ron Hudson says. "He has thrown very few inter­ceptions, and I expect him to mini­mize his mental errors as much as possible." 
Beuerlein didn't prove to be a big­play-type quarterback in 1983, throwing only four touchdown passes, but Hudson hopes that the 203-pounder won't try to change things this year by concentrating on the big play. 
"I don't want Steve to try and make the big play," Hudson says. "I just want him to take what the defense gives him; then the big play will come naturally." 
Besides having the experience of an upperclassmen, the Servite High graduate also possesses the leader­ship abilities usually found in juniors or seniors. 
"The team believes in Steve," says Hudson. "He's a competitor, and he doesn't like to lose. That attitude breeds to the rest of the team. He's a very important team leader." 
Beuerlein's greatest asset seems to be his excellent field vision. He has a knack for hitting his second and third receivers, and he has good accuracy. 
"Steve has great field vision," Hud­son proclaims. "He really wants to learn. He is a committed student of the game." 
While the majority of the passing duties are going to fall on Beuer­lein's shoulders, senior Scott Grooms will have the unenviable task of anchoring the back-up spot. He must be ready to play at anytime, which obviously is not an easy posi· tion to hold; however, Hudson feels Grooms has the confidence and abil­ity to play this role. 
"We have confidence in Scott," says Hudson. "He can finish the game for us. I'm very confident he can do the job." 
Grooms entered the 1983 season as the number-two man, but a bro­ken collarbone in the opener against Purdue ended his season early. 
Gerry Faust received some good news this weekend from the doctor's office. Unebacker Mike Larkin, who sustained a knee injury in last Thursday's scrimmage, has been diagnosed by team doctors to have only suf­fered a partial tear ofligaments in his left knee. It had been feared that the injury was much more serious and would require sur­gery. Contrary to what was re· ported in last Friday's Observer, the knee will not have to be operated on. Larkin has been fitted with a cast, which will be on for at least four weeks. If the healing process is normal, the cast will be removed, and Larkin will be ready to play in six to eight weeks. 
After playing for the Irish in 1980 and 1981 , he transferred to Miami of Ohio for a semester before returning to Notre Dame in 1982. Due to the transfer to Miami he was forcd to sit out the 1982 season and served as the Irish prep team quarterback. 
Grooms is a smart player who is good at reading defenses and knows how to execute the fundementals. 
"Scott has some of the best fun­dementals I've seen," says Hudson. "He has also worked on his arm strength. He is throwing the ball harder, which is going to make him a better player." 
While the first two quarterback spots appear to be locked up, the number-three spot still is up for grabs. Three scholarship freshmen are vying for the second back-up role. High school All-American Terry Andrysiak, Terry Byrne, and Duke St. Pierre all have the difficult task of trying to learn the Irish of­fense. 
"They're struggling," Hudson says, "but they are picking it up slowly." 


The O~rvcr/P~tc Lache~ 

High school All-American Terry Andrysiak hopes to get some playing time this yearatquarterbackfor the Irish, but there are two others ahead ofhim on Gerry Faust's depth chart. Steve Beuerlein andScott Grooms appear tohave the top twospots locked up, asJoe Brunettipoints outin his story about the quarterbacks above. 



