
The wait continues -page 7 
VOL XVIII, NO. 127 the: indc:pc:ndt:nt ~tLillc:nt nc:w~paper ~tT\ ing notrt dame: and ~aint mary·~ THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1984 

The obsen-u!JmrrOliva
A dynamic duet 
night. The two sang materialbyjames Taylorand 
Sarah Bradley, sophomore. and Mary Beth LionelRichie, among others. The coffeehouse was Hocks, junior perform at a coffeehouse in the just one of many events scheduled for Seeds of Came/eon Room of Haggar College Center last Peace Week atSaint Mary's. 


Saint Mary's Board of Regents to attend Holy Cross open house 
By ANNE MONASlYRSKI 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In addition to committee meetings the Saint Mary's Board of Regents will attend a Holy Cross open house during their spring ses­sion, April 1 3 and 14. 
Third floor Holy Cross residents will open their rooms this Friday evening from 5 to 6. and serve refreshments to 30 regents, faculty members, and administrators. The open house is an effort to familiarize the College policy makers with stu­dent life, according to hall treasurer Deborah Hickey. All Saint Mary's stu­dents are invited. 
The several committees of the Board will meet Friday. The commit­tees on investment and education will meet in the morning, while the 
committees on finance and budget, student life, and development will convene in the afternoon. 
The meetings should bring to light some interesting develop­
ments in the areas of education and student life, according to joan Hoi· land, assistant to the president at Saint Mary's. 
The Board of Regents will meet Saturday morning for the reports of the several committees and to ap­pwve the budgets of the commit­tees. 
Regents will attend a black tic dinner of the Madclcva Society in the Stapleton Lounge ofLeMans hall Saturday night. 


Outcry may bring end to CIA-directed mining of Nicaraguan harbors 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -As members of Congress voiced anger over covert 
U.S. activities in Nicaragua, Reagan administration officials said yester­day that the CIA-directed mining of Nicaraguan harbors might not be resumed because of the mounting outcry against it. 
A senior State Department official said the initial phase of the mining had been completed before the Senate overwhelmingly condemned the action Tuesday night in a non­binding resolution demanding that no federal funds be spent on the operation. 
The official, who spoke only on condition that he not be identified, said the CIA will be forced to halt support for anti-government guerril­las in Nicaragua if Congress rejects an administration request for $21 million to finance the insurgency. 
The official said the current phase of the mining was completed a few days ago, and denied there was any "cause-and-effect" connection with the burgeoning controversy over President Reagan's Central America policies. 
Nonetheless, the official ack­nowledged that the OA might be reluctant to resume mining after the Senate's 84-12 adoption of the anti· mining resolution sponsored by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and backed by Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn., and GOP whip Ted Stevens ofAlaska. 
President Reagan gave his written approval for the mining in February, Sen. Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz., dis· closed Tuesday in a sharply critical letter to CIA director William Casey. 
As Reagan toured a Ford assembly line in Claycomo, Mo., yesterday, he was asked his reaction to the Senate resolution. "You wouldn't want to hear it," he replied. But Tuesday night, immediately after the Senate vote, the president told reporters that "if it's not binding, I can live with it." 
Deputy Secretary of State Ken­
neth Dam told a House hearing that 
the United States is not at war with 
Nicaragua but is engaged in 
"collective self-defense." 
Rep. Michael Barnes, D-Md., chair· 
man of the Foreign Affairs subcom­
mittee on Western Hemisphere 
affairs, asked Dam about a statement 
by Goldwater that the mining was 
"an act ofwar." 
"I don't believe that is a correct 
statement," Dam replied. He said the 
UN. charter explicitly recognizes 
the right ofcollective self-defense. 
The atmosphere at the subcom­
mittee hearing, from Republicans as 
well as Democrats, was confronta· 
tional. 
"Mr. Secretary. when is the presi­
dent going to stop dragging the good 
name of this country in the mud?" 
demanded Barnes. 
The Senate vote, though not carrying the force of law, was the first major setback to Reagan's .policy in the Republican-led Senate. The House had previously refused twice to approve funds for covert 
U.S. actions against Nicaragua's left­ist Sandinista government. 
Kennedy also is seeking a Senate 
vote demanding that the administra­
tion reverse itself and subject its 
Central America policy to the 
scrutiny of the World Court, where 
Nicaragua has filed an anti-U.S. com­
plaint. 
Another senior administration of­
ficial, also speaking only on 
condition that he remain 
anonymous, said many CIA officials 
believe the furor in Congress 
probably has killed any chances of 
House approval of the 521 million 
request for aid to Nicaraguan rebels. 
White House spokesman Larry 
Speakes said that if the $21 million 
request is rejected, as House 
Speaker Thomas O'Neill predicts, 
covert aid to the rebels will have to 
cease. 
The senior State Department offi­cial said Secretary of State George Shultz had "misgivings" about the Nicaraguan mining, although he did not actively oppose it. 

Chemenko becomes 10th president of U.S.S.R. 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -A triumphant Konstantin Chernenko became the Soviet Union's lOth president yesterday, giving him the top three leadership posts and a stature equal to that of his two predecessors. · 
Chernenko, 72, has been Communist Party secretary general, the most powerful position in the Soviet Union, since after the Feb. 9 death ofleader Yuri Andropov. He also took over as chairman ofthe Defense Council. 
He smiled broadly. waved and clasped his hands over his head when the joint session of the 1,500-member Parliament voted to a:so make him president. 
"I certainly realize the great responsibility of the duties and powers connected with my position," he said in a briefacceptance speech. "We now. more than ever, need to work to improve the economy and the living conditions ofthe Soviet people." 
Looking tanned and fit, he pledged to pursue a foreign policy of "constant activity. firmness, consis­tency in the search for ways to sensible accords. It is directed at overcoming international tension, ensuring security, our state interests in the world arena, and upholding peace throughout the world." 
lbe vote was unanimous as usual. As in all other ac­
tions ofthe Supreme Soviet, the nation's nominal parlia­
ment. it reflected the thinking of the 12-man ruling 
Politburo. 
Chernenko's rise to the p~esidency was swifter than that ofAndwpov, who became president seven months after assuming the pany leadership post. 

The practice of having the Communist Party leader also serve as president was established by Leonid I. Brezhncv, Andropov's predecessor, who took over as Communist Party leader in 1964 and added the presidency in 1977. Brezhncv died in 1982. 
The president, formally chairman ofthe Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, serves as chiefofstate. It was con­sidered a ceremonial post devoid of real power until Brezhnev. 
Chcrnenko, a Brezhnev protege, was nominated for 
the  presidency by  Mikhail  S. Gorbachev,  who  has  
emerged as No. 2 man in the Politburo.  
In  his nominating speech, Gorbachcv,  at  53  the  

youngest Politbuw member, said the pany had decided one man should be both party leader and president. 
He praised Chcrnenko as a "staunch fighter for com­munism and peace ...who has outstanding political and organizational abilities." 
During tts 45-minute session in the ornate Kremlin Palace, the Supreme Soviet named Gorbachev chairman of its foreign affairs commission, a post held by Cher­nenko under Andropov and by No. 2 party secretary Mikhail A. Suslov under Brezhnev. 
It also re-elected Premier Nikolai A. Tikhonov to an­other term as chairman ofthe I00-man Council ofMini­sters o.fthe Soviet Union. 

Konstantin Chernenko appears at a Kremlin session ofone ofthe two houses ofthe Sovietpar· liamentyesterday afternoon. 


The Observer Thursday, April 12, 1984 -page 2 

In Brie£ 
A coalition of Democrats and three Midwest 
lkpublican~ maintainnl a slim majority yesterday in fighting off cf­lilfls in the !louse Energy and Commcrct: Committee to derail kgislation aimed at forcing natllral gas prices down next winter. The hill. authored primarily hy Rep. Philip Sharp. D-lnd .. and lobbied for heavily hy consumer and labor groups, would cap prict:s on st:vcral catt.·gorics of ga~ that, under a I978 law, would otherwise be dereg­ulatt.·d nt.·xt January. -AP 
Ifseasonal trendS hold true, Indiana's employment 
figurt.·s art.· likdy to continue rising from Fchruary's heartening figures, the: Indiana Employment Security Division said. Preliminary . figures show unemployment in the Hoosier state totaled I I percent in February. a drop of~-~ pnccnt from last February, and a dc:crcast: of I pcrcc:nt from the previous month, the division rcportt:d ycstt:r­day. But Indiana was still above national figures. The national non­sc:asonally adjustc:d unc:mploymcnt rate in Fchruary was 8.4 percent. The: st·aS<mally adjusted figure:~ show Indiana with a I 0.4 pcrcc:nt unc:mploymcnt ratt.·, compared with 7.9 percent nationally. -AP 
Five aerial nuclear bombs exploded ovt.·r In­
diana ycstc:rday and two military installations were wiped out in a simulation condunc:d by the Indiana Department of Highways. Offi­ciab from the state Department of Highways were already in the t.·mngcncy operations ccntt.·r when the "attack" took place. Civil lkfc:me and police across the state were already assessing the damage shortly aftt.-r the simulation began around I:20 p.m. Gene llallot.·k. din:ctor of the: Indiana Department of Highways, smiled as he announced to dc:partmc:nt pnsonnd that "Indiana has hec:n hit." 
The: test was conductt.·d with federal funds and with the hdp of fc:dnal highway officials in an effort to determine the effect on the state's transportation systc:m ifa nudc:ar attack hit the state. -AP 
Cameron Butz's thumbprints aren't famous 
yet, but they soon will be after they art: seen in stores around In­dianapolis. Amonth from now, the whorls, loops and papillary ridges on the 8-year-old third-grader's thumbs will be driving a race car. Others will be flying a kite, walking a dog, riding in a basket under a hot-air halloon and roller skating. Cameron's thumbprints arc featured on SOO colorful "Thumbthing Special" posters promoting the Indianapolis SOO Festival's May S Children's Day activities. Making 26 ofhis thumbprints into children doing some ofthe things that will he done on Children's Day was the winning idea in the Festival's first poster contest -AP 
Attorneys don't expect charges to be mcd in an 
incident in which former Center Township Assessor Henry Bayt slugged an employee in his office and was escorted from the City­County building Tuesday's incident topped a day of intense intra­party political fighting by Democrats supporting the two main candidates who want to succeed Bayt. Bayt, 60, resigned his office last week after pleading guilty to mail fraud and tax evasio~/iHc punched Irvin L. "Slick" Wilson, 61, a~ 1-ycar employee ofthe asses­sor's office, in the check. -AP 
Of Interest 
"Notre Dame in Review, 1983-84" will he 
shown today at 2, ~. and 4 in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. The 40-minute videotape is a pilot project to determine whc:ther there: is a markc:t among Notre: Dame: alumni clubs, as well as among students, particularly sc:niors and thdr parents, for such an annual review. An alumni news-anchor team, Mike Collins and Anne Thompson, appc:ar on a specially dcsignc:d sc:t and act as hosts in introducing story sc:gmcnts. -The Obseruer 

VVeather · 
,. 
Less snn butless cold today with partly doudy skic:s and mild tc:mpcraturc:s todav with a SO pc:rcc:nt chance: of showc:rs and thun-­derstorms. High in uppt.·r SOs and low 60s. A c;o pc:rccnt chant.-c: of showers and thundc:rstorms tonight. Low in upper 50s and low .fOs. Showc:rs likc:ly and cooler tomorrow. High in low to mid 

SOs. -AP  
The Observer  Today's is~uc: was prodm..·ed by:  
The Observer ( l'SPS  ~')l)  l .. tOOO)  b  De.~ign l:'dltor.. .................... Susan O'Hara  
puhli.\ht·d .\1unday rhrough l;rklay and  Dt•siRil .4ssista"t .......... Maun.·c..·n Murphy  
on  htnnt·  tiHuhall  ~;uunJay!'l,  t·xcqH  7)•peJeltt.~n· ................. CaroJ. Vic, and Tc..·d  
dunn~ c:xam .md \'al·auon pt·riods. The  Neu·s Editor...  .. .... Amy Stephan  
Observer i:o-. puhll:"ohnl h~ the: 'tudc:nt!'t of  Copy lidilm·.  .............John lkasly  
tht· l'nl\'t:rsit~ of Norrt· l>~mu.· o1nd ~aint  Spurt,,. Cop1• Editor... ......... Davt· Dzic:dzil"  
M;Jq·· . .,  <.ollq(t'  Suh~c:rjption.,  ma~  ht·  Vi~!U'}Jnintl.tl)'uut .................. Mary Dolan  
purc.:hu~t·d  for  Sl~  pt·r yt·ar ( S I ,  pc.:r  NIJ /)aJ' liditor  ....... Mdinda MO<m·  
'<-'mn.tt·r) hy  "ritmg The  Oh~ervt·r.  .\~lie /Jar lit/itor.... ....... Maggk t l'Conndl  
P 0  Box(), Nolrt' l>anu·. lndtana t6CiCih.  .·ld Ot•s/gu  .... Boh Slota  
The Observt'r i~ a mt:mlwr ol The As­ Pbufpgrapber ....  . ........... Bill Grojean  
sociated Pres.!\. All rt·production raghP.  
art· rt'!'tt'rvt·d  
-· 
··­~~--~-------'  


Wait a second before you say a new alcohol policy is unfounded 
"A wet campus is a happy campus." But is it rc:ally a happy campus when you wake up the morning after with an aching head and an Alka-Sdtzcr stomach? 
Since early November when it was announced that Mark Potter Notre Dame would have a new alcohol policy, practi­
Copy Editor 
cally all student argumc:nts have been .against any change: in the: prc:sc:nt policy. Views in favor of a new and possibly more restrictive policy have not recc:ived Inside Thursday 
much publicity. 

When I first came to this campus last August I was drinking the school will be: seen as more serious very impressed with the school's position on drinking. I academically. believed then as I do now that it is a good policy. It Another argument used by the: administration is that treats students as adults, a feature: noticeably lacking in drunkcnnessis immoral, and immoral behavior can not some other school policies, while still being rc:alistic he tolerated at a Catholic university. Drunkenness, and maintaining a degree ofsafety and control. some claim, is immoral in that it can cause: people to 
Although a new, more restrictive alcohol policy is take immoral actions they normally would not take. probably not in the best interests ofall involved, there Many overlook the fact that there is a lot of alcohol are some arguments for such a policy. Because both abuse: on campus. Look around and set• if you don't sides of the story should be prc:scnted hc:re arc: some know at least one pc:rson who could be: categorized as arguments in favor ofa more an alcoholic. Theadministra­restrictive alcohol stand: tion believes toughc:r rules 
Because of legal liability on the: usc of alcohol will 
the University is almost somehow rc:ducc alcohol forced to modify its present abuse: on campus. If this is position or face the threat of true, there is some jusVfica­being sued. Under the cur­tion for a new al¢ohol rc:nt alcohol policy tbc Uni­poliq. versity is opc:n to lawsuits The lack of social func­from individuals under 21 tions on campus without al­
who drink on campus then cohol and the superfluity of 
get injurc:d. The University social functions whc:rc: al­
is afraid this will happen. cohol consumption is en­
This is a valid reason for a couraged are other reasons change in the: alcohol policy. for a change. Currently few Two recc:nt suits against the social activities on campus University demonstrate how arc: held without alcohol and vulnerable the University is these arc often not well­to lawsuits. The University is attended. A more stringent to some degree financially alcohol policy may increase and legally responsible for the: number and popularity the actions ofthe students ifit allows students to drink. ofnon-alcoholic social functions. 
The legality ofthe current policy is questionable. The Although the current policy is an intelligent treat­University is not enforcing Indiana state law by allowing ment of students and alcohol, the University seems to students under the age of 21 to drink. feel that for these and other reasons it should be 
Du Lac states, "The use of alcoholic beverages in changed. Students should not lie down and meekly ac­moderation is accepted at this University." Yet two c~pt the new policy when it finally does come out, but paragraphs later it says, "Students should be aware of they should keep in mind the reasons behind the Indiana State Law." Indiana State Law prohibits drinking changes the administration will probably make. for people under the age of 21. This dubious legality could do nothing but hurt the University if a case were 
to be brought against it. ,..,.. An argument for a policy limiting the use of alcohol on campus is particulary attractive to the administration 
The views expressed in the Inside column
because a more restrictive alcohol policy would en­
are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­
hance the Notre Dame image the administration wants to project. sarily reflect the views of the editorial board The current administration has worked hard to make or staff. Notre Dame an academically respected school. Ad­ministrators might reason that with a stricter stand on 

•Amish Cooked Dinners 
•Also 
Steaks, Prime Rib, and Seafoods 

•Largest 
salad bar in town 

•75 
item Saturday brunch (served 8:00am-2:oopm) 

•Reservations 
accepted for large or small groups 

•15 
minutes from Notre Dame 

•850 
seats, lots of food and good service 


From Notre Dame, south on Eddy Street (about 10 minutes) to Jefferson, turn left (East) 5 minutes. Look for the castle! 
-9 P.M. • Saturday 8 A.M.-9 P.M. Closed Sundays-Except Easter, Mother's Day· 1202 E. Jefferson Blvd. • Mishawaka. Indiana 155-8040 
N011ZE~.Nv\E SNNT MAl~!'S 


Of\NCE 

IHEATKS 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Theatre presents: La Fllle Mal Gardee (fhe Unchaperoned Daughter) Adapted and choreographed by Debra S. Stahl 
" April 12. 13. 14 at 8:00 pm; April 15 at 2:30 pm ' O'Laughlin Auditorium. Saint Mary's campus ....,Qpenlng Night: Two for the price of One 
Tickets and Information 284-4626 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----. 
The Observer 



Mondale shirks front-runner label 
school, are put to good use by these enterprising students who took advantage ofthe sailing club's boats at the first sign ofclear skies and a steady breeze. 
Associated Press 
The race for the Democratic presidential nomination slowed to a crawl yesterday after 51 topsy-turvy days that left things pretty much as they started: Walter Mondale ahead and sounding optimistic and chief challenger Gary Hart promising a second halffilled with long bombs. 
Thursday, April 12, 1984 -page 3 
Austrian statesman 

speaks to freshmen 
By MARY JACOBY and TRIPP BALTZ 
StaffReporters 

The Austrian Consul General for 
the Midwest, Dr. Hans Sabaditsch, 
addressed freshmen enrolled in the 
Innsbruck Foreign Study Program 
on Monday. 

Sabaditsch said foreign exchange programs like Notre Dame's are beneficial for both countries. Many Austrian 'students, he said, are eager to spend time in the U.S. because the experience is valuable in the Austrian job market. 
A question and answer period followed Sabaditsch's presentation, which included a short talk and a ftlm. 
Based in Chicago, Sabaditsch has been an a member of the United States Austrian Consul for the past 1 1 months. Sabaditsch is responsible for a 12 state area covering most of 

BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
LIVE CLASSES 
• 
TEST-N-TAPE® LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HGMESTUDY PACKET 


Special 4 Week Program For Sept. 29 LSAT CALL FOR DETAILS 

.C=... .. .-H. Ca!l Days• Evenings ~Weekends
.. ..•
·.. .,,. ... ... 
272-4135. . .•.. ""·· ....... D .. 1717 E_ South Bend Ave 
•EDUCATIONAL •
CENTER ·•····
1

TEST . . SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 


The Judges Jam Master ofCeremonies Best cultural event on campus highlights Friday Night's session Willis Conover all year 
Featuring 15 excellent collegiate jazz bands and judges: Dan Morgenstern, Terence Blanchard, Paquito D'Rivera, Joanne Brackeen, Danny Gottlieb, and Dave Holland. 
Friday  April13  7:30PM  
Saturday April· 14  1:00PM  
Saturday April14  6:30PM  
Stepan Center  

Tickets and T-shirts available at the Student Union Record Store 
And then there was the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a distant third in most ofthe 33 primaries and caucuses held to date but an ever-growing political force at the national convention be­cause of his demonstrated ability to 
galvanize  black  voters  behind  his  
cause.  
Even  though  M>ndale's  victory  

Tuesday in Pennsylvania's primary 
the Midwest. Two other Austrian consulates are bast:d in New York and Los Angeles. 
Sabaditsch's dutks include providing aid and information for Austrian citizens within his region. This includes assisting those Austrians with passport difficulties and problems with the polict:. Ht: es­timates that there are currt:ntly I,600 Austrians holding visas in the Midwest, and more than 100,000 in his region with an Austrian back­ground. 
However, it is the task ofacquaint­ing Americans with Austria that Dr. Sabaditsch enjoys most. He recently attended a folklore festival in North Dakota designed to familiarize Americans with Austrian culture. "VVe received a tremendous rt:cep­tion," said Sabaditsch. "We were physically and mentally tired at the end of the festival but it was very enjoyable." 
gave him a S78 lead over Hart in na­tional delegates and completed a sweep of three industrial states that started with Illinois and New York, the former vice president shied away from the front-runner label like it was a bad New Hampshire dream. 
"I am not the front-runner," he told one television interviewer Tuesday night even before the ques­tion was posed. He reiterated that disclaimer word-for-word to a group of auto workers yesterday in St. Louis and added, "There's a tough road ahead and I am not taking any­thing for granted." 
But Mondalc couldn't ket:p the grin off his face and acknowledged that -for the first time since his campaign was knocked into a tailspin by Hart's upset victory in New Hampshire six weeks ago -ht: sees a chance to lock up the nomina­tion before the .July convention. 
"I now believe I have a chance to get the delegates before the conven­tion," he said. "Up until Pennsylva­nia, I didn't think I had that chance." 
Mondale was in the St. Louis area reminding workers at a Chrysler plant how he helped work out federal loan guarantees to save the automaker four years ago and how Hart opposed that plan. 
Mondale, who had started out the campaign year with a win in the Iowa caucuses Feb. 20, headed to Arizona later in the day where he and Jackson campaigned for 33 delegates at stake in caucuses Satur­day. After that, the only contests on the April calendar are caucuses in Utah, Missouri and Vermont. 
When Mondale holds out hope for a pre-convention victory, he is talking about the 931 delegates he needs to meet the magic plateau of 1,967 -the number of votes that it takes to award the nomination. 
Hart, on the other hand, needs to win roughly two-thirds of those yet to be selected to accumulate the 1,389 additional supporters he will need at the convention. 
"The calendar from now on favors 
me," Hart said in an interview en 
route from Washington to Denver 
after the die was cast in Pennsylva­
nia. "We are headed into states 
where the positions he ( Mondale) 
has taken are going to 
begin to cut the other way." 

Hart was heavy on football anal­
ogy in outlining his plans. 

"We are happy ... because we just 
came out of our most difficult 
period," Hart said. "It is the second 
half. You know the sun is coming 
out. The field is going to be a lot fas­
ter." 

The Colorado senator was back in Denver yesterday for his first day off the campaign since December ­resting and trying to shake a cold aide Tom Gleason described as "nothing serious." 
The Observer Thursday, April12, 1984-page 4 
World economy recovery hindered by enormous U.S. budget deficits 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON· Enormous hudgt't dd1dts in the United States pose a "major potc..·ntial dangc..·r" for the healthy recovery of the world's c..Tonomy. till' International Monetary Fund ~aid yc..·sterday. 
A rc..·port hy the fund's staff said budgc..·t red-ink tends 10 keep inter­c..·st rate..·~ higher than they would otherwi~e be. Ami that, it said, has "implications that go heyond the borc..lt:rs of the countries actually ex­pt·rkncing the deficits," particularly for dc..·veloping nations struggling to rc..·pay 1heir debts. 
"l'iscal rc..·straint is thus clt:arly 
needed, from an intc..·rnational as 
well as from a domestic standpoint," 
it said. 
Till' report, c..·alkd the World 
Economic Outlook, was relt:asnl as the spring meeting of the 146­membt:r organization got under way at the fund's Washington headquar­ters. In recent years, the IMF has been instrumental in fashioning aid 
packages  ti>r  debt-stricken  
countries.  
The  fund  staff  study  said  

"suhstantial progn:ss" was made last year in coming to grips with those countries' dt:hts, estimated at S669 hillion in 198.3 for dt:vdoping na­tions which don't export oil. 
Still, it said the dt:ht-riddt:n na­tions cannot lt:t up in dlorts to reduct: their hudget deficits, main­tain overseas markets for their products and kt:t:p inflation under control. 
At the same time, the in­dustrialized nations must maintain economic momentum so they can continue huying goods from developing countries and fight off' pressures at home to bar foreign products which are competing with domestic industries, the economic survey said. 
The report forecast that if tile in­dustrialized nations maintained a healthy growth pace, with most in­flation and declining interest rates, the deht troubles of the poorer countries would gradually ease. For example, it said, the ratio of the foreign debt of the 25 biggest deb­tors to their exports would decline from 150 percent last year to 132 percent in 1987 and to 124 percent in 1990. 
However, the study also found that the debt obligations of key countries would actually rise around 1987 because payments of principal on their loans would start coming due. 
Americans still reading books, says survey 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Despite com­pc.:tition from tdevision, mort· than one half of Amc.:ril'an adults read books, says a study releasc.:d yester­day, and one.: rt·adcr in thrc.:c.: manage..·~ to go through a book a week. 
"In the.: age..· of elc.:ctronk t'lllcr­tainment and personal computc..·rs, books are thriving," says the study, condLit"ll'll ti>r the..· Book Industry Swdy <iroup, a non-profit organiza­tion n·presenting publishers, hook makcrs. supplic..'r~. librarians and other~ in the book business. The study wa~ ha~nl on 1,961 hour-long intervic..·w~ made la~t October. 
The pnc..Tntagc..· ofAmnicans who say thc..·y n·ad at least an occasional hook has barely dungc..·d in five yc..·ar~. the study said. It is 56 pc..·rc..Tnt now and was 55 pc..-rcc..·nt in a similar I')78 survey. 
But the distribution of reader~ in the population ha~ changnl. the..· report II<Hes, and it term~ the trend "disturbing." 
!Ieavy rcLtkrs art· rl·atling more hook~ and light readc..·rs ti:wn. And young peopk arc..·n't reading as nwch as tht· young u~cd to. 
The proportion of heavy n·aders 
has doublc..·d. from I 8 percent of all 
hook readns t1n· )Tars ago to .35 
Jlt'rn·nt today. 
!Ieavy readl·r~ arc those who claim to have rc..·ac..l26 or more hooks in the last six months -at least one a wc..'t'k, on avt'fagc. They said they spent l·l hour~ a week reading books. 
The hc..·avy readers huy about half of the hooks they rc..·ad, borrowing 
other~. 
Thc..·y also read more magazines than non-hook rcadc:rs, but fewer newspapc..·rs, and arc more likdy to be filmgoers, to have cahlt: and pay tdcvision and to watch public TV than non book-readers. 
But the..· study ti>und that book reading has c..kdincd among the young. 
In I978, thrc..T-qllartcrs of those aged 16 to 21 said they read books, and that\ now down to 6.) percent. The proportion of young peoplt: who cont1nc their reading to nc..·wspapers and magazinc..·s grew from I 9 percent to 29 percent. People..-who said thc.:y read I 0 to 25 hooks within the last six months ac­counted li>r 26 pl·rccnt of all hook rc..·ac..lc..·rs, ahout the same as the proportion in I978. 
Those..· daiming to have read ti>ur to nilll' hooks in the last six months, ac..Tountc..·c..l for 2.3 percent of those who rc..·ad books. That's down from .31 pc..·rcc..·nt of the book-reading population in I<)"'8. 
Light rc..·atlt:rs -one to three hooks in the past six months -ac­count for 16 pc..·rct·nt. It was 2·i per­t'l'nt in I978. 
The typical reader of books was education, earning about $1 5,000 or dcscrihed as a white woman, af­retired from a blue collar job or un­fluent. with some college education employed. and, if employed. holding down a The average person daimed he white collar job. And the typical spends I I. 7 hours a week reading non-reader c:merged as an older man books, magazines or newspapers with no more than a high school and 16.3 hours watching television. 
.--------~----------~--------, 
I 
J 

Enjoy Barclay's
CLIP CLIP
COUPON FILET MIGNON COUPON
&SAVE $3 

(REG. 8.95-WITH COUPON 5.95) &SAVE S3 OR 
STUFFED FILET MIGNON 
WRAPPED IN BACON AND TOPPED WITH SlOTtED MUSHROOMS 
(REG. 9.95-WITH COUPON 6.95) 
...-0rurrroFILET Each entree includes a bot­r"t\\.~c; 695 tomless tureen of soup,s ---~ baked bread and your choice of baked potato, 
, home fries or rice mason. 
OUR REGULAR MENU IS ALSO AVAILABLE 
OFFER EXPIRES MAY 5,11184 
52885 U.S. 31 North, South Bend 'Ph. 272-5478 

Mol~y Galt,in, jane Akalaitis, and Mary' Sue Dunn seem to be listening intentZv at yesterday's Saint Mary's Programming BoardJ meeting in the Haggar College Center. The board meets weekly to discuss issues ofinterest to the Saint Mary's community. 






free... 
DOMINO'S PIZZA ... 
AND 2 FREE COKES 
* WITH 3-0AY MOVIE PACKAGE
OUR 

3-DftX Aft!9Yst~LA~~~v~~~~~~~~24 95 
TAPE RECORDER AND 3 MOVIES ... ONLY 
Ahll WEll GIVE YOU ACOUPOM FOR AFREE DOMINO'S PIZZA & 2COKES! 
VIDEO DISC PLAYER .dliiJUIIUUJ11lHJlllliiiW\lllliUI\Im\ 
1

1'tli61 MOVIE/OVERNIGHT 'c.=== J ~ 

_--l =PUYU qJg5QJ ---ii§ 
RCA VIDEO CASSETTE PLAYER 
South Bend North 51400 U.S. 31 N. Clocktower Square 277-8872 

RENTAL SLIGHTLY HIGHER 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS 
~ ~=!~~'f!civ~~~ 83 
-----------------------------~ 


SHAMPOO SPECIAL 
8·5 Mon.•Sat. 
111-119-1164 
Badin Hall Notre Dame, IN 465S6 
University ol Notre D•mt~ (Evening• by Appointment) 


UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
--------HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS-------......... 
Our f!U~Ster stylists have the up-to-dllte and conventiofllll styles /Or the men anti women of the Notre Dame/and Saint&(ary's campuses. 
Let us take care ofallyour hair care needs. We also have a full line ofretail hair products and are located on campus for your convenience. 
1 QUART WITH PUMP 
$5.50 
Professional Conditioning Shampoo 
"Get them while they last" 

The Observer Thursday, April12, 1984-page 5 
Midwestern pizza parlors front for heroin smuggling ring 
Senate campaign manager is kidnapped, released 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -The Senate campaign manager to former Gov. john Brown Jr. was kidnapped at gunpoint and later released when a ransom was paid. An arrest has been made in the abduction, the FBI said yesterday. 
Wallace Wilkinson was abducted from his office here Tuesday morning and released about 9:30a.m. yesterday after the payment of an undisclosed amount of money, said FBI special Agent James Yelvington. 
Jerome Bush Jernigan, a 54-year-old busi­nessman, was arrested near Wilkinson's office here yesterday afternoon by the Lexington­Fayette Urban County police, said detective Michael Moynahan. 
Wilkinson, the owner of the Capitol Hotel in Frankfort, was abducted at gunpoint about 3 p.m. Tuesday and was taken to Frankfort, where he spent the night, Moynahan said. 
Wilkinson was taken early yesterday to 
Associated Press 
OLNEY, Ill. -Joe's Pizza Parlor, across from the high school, is a popular spot where the Lions Club meets every Thursday. 
But federal officials say joe's also was a crucial link in an international heroin smuggling conspiracy that has smuggled more heroin into the United States than the notorious "French Connection." The case, which involves a group of Sicilian­born pizza shop operators in several Midwestern communities, has been dubbed the "Pizza Connection." 
Residents of the town of 9, I 00, about 115 miles east of St. Louis in 
Tom O'Leary Great Job on the Mock Convention 
From all the Mock Convention delegates -n-workers 


and Sunshine Promotions 

JON ANDERSON CHRIS SQUIRE TREVOR RABIN AlAN WHITE TONY KAYE 
Thursday, April 26 7:30P.M. Notre Dame A.C.C. All Seats Reserved $12.50 
! I 

Tickets on sale at the A.C.C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City). Robertson's (South Bend, Town and Country and Concord Mall). Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (LaPorte). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). World Record (Goshen). Music Magic (Benton Harbor) and Karma Records (Fl. Wayne). 
' ~ . . . . .­
~

• .• • • ; ·~ •••• ••. •. 'I....... •,_. •. -' ..... \ .... ~ •••• 
.......... -.. .. . .. ­

southeastern Illinois, said they were shocked by the news. Until the Pizza Connection, Olney was known mainly as one ofthe few places in the country to have a population of al­bino squirrels. 
"The Pizza Connection is definite­ly getting top billing" in coffee shop and other gossip, said editor James Small of the Olney Daily Mail. Small printed a few hundred extra copies of the paper Tuesday to tell his readers about the federal officials' announcement in New York. 
joe's, a three-room, red-brick cafe, has stayed open for business but the owner, Giuseppe "joseph" Glagow, where an undisclosed amount of money was delivered and Wilkinson was released. 
A 1982 Lincoln Continental owned by Jim Aldridge, president of New Farmers National Bank in Glasgow, was reported stolen and later recovered by police. 
The ransom has not been found, Moynahan 
said. 

Police received information yesterday that Jernigan could be found at a Lexington hotel, where he was staying, or at Wilkinson's office, Moynahan said. 
Police staked out both locations and ar­
rested Jernigan, who offered no resistance, 
Moynahan. 

Jernigan was held in the Lexington-Fayette Urban County Detention Center and would be formally charged with extortion at a court appearance this morning before a U.S. magistrate, Yelvington said. 
Trupiano, is in jail after failing to post a $1 million bond. 
On Monday, federal authorities in New York accused Trupiano and 30 others with participating in a ring that smuggled $1.6 billion worth of heroin into the country from Sicily over a ftve-year period. The heroin allegedly was shipped through three pizza parlors in Illinois and one in Wisconsin. 
Small, who called Joe's Pizza Par­lor "a nice, small, out-of-the-way place," said Trupiano was known as "a good Catholic" who "never missed Mass." 
Trupiano, 33, even agreed to 
15% Discount ~ not including 
·  sale items  
N.D.-S.M.C.  
FOX'S  JEWELERS SINCE 1917  Students  


DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
Tniversity Park Mall and Concord. & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 



~Reagan visits autoworkers 
Associated Press 
CLAYCOMO, Mo.-President Reagan told autoworkers at an assembly plant yesterday that the economy has recovered and people have gone back to work because "all of us ... have hung tough" and ignored those who said it couldn't be done. · 
In remarks after lunch that Reagan had in the hourly workers' cafeteria and a tour ofan assembly line of a modernized Ford plant in Clay County outside Kansas City, the presi­dent said his effort ro "rebuild America from the bottom up" hasn't been easy. 
"Times have been rough, and yes, the reces­sion was much deeper and longer than almost anyone predicted," Reagan said. "But these problems had been building up for 20 years, and we were determined to find a real economic cure, not just resort -as they had so often in the past -to another political quick ftx." 
And in a jab at his political opponents who accuse him of a lack of compassion, he said, "There's no compassion in snake oil cures." 
close his parlor until 4 p.m. each 
weekday because school officials 
complained that pupils were mis­
sing classes ro play pinball at the 
cafe, Small said. 
Robert Malone, a leader in the Chamber of Commerce, called fel­low member Joe Trupiano "a very personable young fellow" who had lived in Olney about 10 years. 
"It just looked like a little old country town restaurant." Malone said. 
Olney wasn't the only small-town link in the Pizza Connection. Officials said other suspects in­cluded Giuseppe "Joe" Vitale. 42, 

"All of us, working together and ignoring the gloomcriers and pundits who said it couldn't be done, have hung tough," Reagan added. "Today, as we see the auro industry and the economy humming with activity, aren't we glad we did?" 
While Reagan visited the Claycomo plant, which the White House had selected as a model of resurgence in the auto industry, the leading Democratic contender for his job, Walter F. Mondale, toured a Chrysler plant across the state in Fenton. 
Many of the several hundred workers gathered at the end Of the assembly line to hear Reagan's speech wore blue and white "Mondale" baseball caps that had been handed out earlier at the plant gate by the United Auto Workns. 
Mondale's trip was strictly political -the Missouri Democratic caucuses are a week away -whereas the president's trip to Claycomo and Dallas, where he is to visit a housing site today, was billed by tht: Whitt: Hous~: as an official visit and therefor~: paid for by the taxpay~:rs and not the Reagan re· election committee. 
owner ofJoe's Pizza and Italian Food in Paris, Ill., population about 10,000; Pietro Alfano, 57, who runs Alfano Pizza in Or~egon, Ill., popula­tion about 4,600; and Emanuele Palazzolo, 37, who operates a piz-. z~:ria in Milton, Wis., population 
about 4,000. 
Law enforcement officials said dis­cussions about cleaning pizza tables and delivering flour became codes for drug deals. "Oven," for example, was said to be a code for a kilogram of heroin. 
Sometimes, the white heroin was distributed in pizza boxes, said Bob Long ofthe FBI in Chi~ago, who sug­gested that the small-town pizza par­lors were chosen because they were inconspicuous. 
In New York, Associate U.S. Attor­ney Dennison Young said the parlors generally became "way-stations," or transshipment points, for the heroin, not selling points. 
In Oregon, high school senior joy 
Balcom described Alfano Pizza as 
one ofthe town's teen-ag~: hangouts. 
"We have two pizza places," sht: 
said. One is "more for the wild, 
rowdy type," but "the cheerleaders, 
jocks, everybody hung out at Al­
fano's." 
"No one really expects a small town like that to have a big drug ring," she said. "When you think of drugs, you think of the city, New York and Chicago. When you think of Oregon, you think of sweet, cutesy, small town, nothing hap­pens, real dull." 
But the FBI in Chicago said Mon­
day it seized "automatic weapons, 
handguns, ammunition, bulletproof 
vests and a large sum of cash" at Al­
fano's. 
In Paris, across the street from 
Vitale's restaurant, people at the 
Moss Grain Co. said they were 
puzzled about the news concerning 
the neighbor they call joe. 
"He's an excellent neighbor. He's a family man, very concerned about his children," Mary Moss, 46, said. "I 

like Joe and his family very, very much." Terry Moody, 19, said, "He serves excelknt pizza." 
Customers knew Vitale as a man who made sure they were served promptly and treated well. "He'd just about take your coat and get you sat down," Darrell Spencer, 25, said. 
"He'd make his rounds and talk to people," Moody said. "If something went on. he'd put a stop to it." 
They said business improved since Vitale opened the shop in 1970, replacing the original pizzeria with a new, sit-down Italian res­taurant. 
In Milton, Wis., high school teac­her james Polarski said of Emanuele Palazzolo's restaurant; "We certainly didn't see any activity. There was no street peddling." 
_j 
The Observer Thursday, Aprill2, 1984-page 6 

Militarism yields to democracy in South America 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO, Chile -Democracy has a new Latin heat, one echoing up and down a contint:nt. 
You can hear it in the clangor of pots and pans in Chik, in the samba drums of young Brazilian marchers, in the chants of election crowds in 
Argt·ntina  and  demonstrators  in  
Uruguay.  
Across  South  America,  the  

military lockstep is breaking down. 
Where only two elected civilian governments existed five years ago, a half-dozen now debate and decide their nations' future in tht.· open light of parliaments and the prt.·ss. And pressure is mounting on four n·maining military governments to hasten their withdrawal to the bar­racks. 
"Civilianization" is contagious. Last October's elections in Argen­tina inspired democrats in nearby Uruguay and Chik. And those move­ml'llls now t.·neouragl· others, evt.·n raising faint hopes in Paraguay, ironclad domain of strongman (ien. Alfredo Strol·ssnt.·r. 
"We havl· to unite all the opposi· lion around a single, peaceful action plan, just as the Chileans art· doing now," Paraguan opposition kader Juan Manuel lknitez Florl·ntin told a rl·portl·r visiting Asuncion. 
South Amerka's new democracil'S may opl-ratt· in tlu· shadow of a military that reserves a "right" to inlt.-rvt·m· again. But South Anll'rkan politicians, al·ademks and othl·rs say growing public aware­m·o;s, international condemnation of military repression, and the armnl forn·s' own wt·arine's of grappling with socil'ty's ilb may slow the his­toric cycle of military coups. 
Till' most hilll'r showdown is here in Chik, till' heaufifulland of I I mil­lion peopk strung :-.kmkrly along tht.·contim·nt's Pacific coast. 
Dt.·rnot-ratic roots may run dtTpt.·st lwrt.· -Chileans claim a I :W-yl·ar electoral tradition. But tht· military ruler -the glowering (ien. Augusto Pinm:het -may also he the most immovable. 
Tht· Chile story shows the li1rce at work as South Amnil'a transt(mns it­sdf. 
A protest moveml·nt to toppk thl· authoritarian president sprang to life a yt·ar ago in the dusty slums and on 1he statdy boulevards of this Old World-style capital. lkvdopmt.·nts 
in 1984 may determine whether the Marxist left or <:apitalist center leads the opposition, and whether strikes and demonstrations can force the army to abandon the general. 
The hattie lines arc dearly drawn. 
"We will never have a dialogue with Pinochct," Gabriel Valdes, leader ofthe centrist DemocraticAl­liance coalition, said in a recent in­
terview.  
"The  public  keeps  saying,  
'Enough! enough!'"  
A pinochet spokesmen,  Alfonso  

Marquez de Ia Plata, government secretary general, said the regime is willing to discuss changes in Pinoc­het's long-established plan for a slow return to democracy. 
"But the opposition says, 'We are the only ones who have the truth, everything we say is right,' " Mar­
"Growing public awareness, international condemnation of military coups and the armed forces own weariness . .. may slow the historic cycle ofmilitary 
coups, 
quez de Ia Plata said. "This is the an­tithesis of dialogue." Not all the opposition is free to protest or make dialogue, however. 
From his I 7th-floor oltice suite, Marquez de Ia Plata can sec the grimy city prison where one kq anti-Pinm:het figure -marxist op­position front leader Manuel Al­mq·da -has been jailed since Fch. 
I "i for calling publicly for Pinochct's ouster. 
The 6H-year-old pn·sidcnt mixes repression with concession as he m;mcUVlT~ to maintain the power the Chilean military seized in a bloody coup Sept. I I, 197.'\, when they brought down the elected govnnment of President Salvador Allende, a Marxist who was pulling Chile sharply leftward. Alh:nde and as many as I 0,000 other Chileans died in the coup and its aftermath. 
The Pinochet decade has lurched 
&.I ..JJI' 

from boom to bust. 
As the economy soared in 1980, "EI General" went to the people with a rd't:rendum on his plan for returning Chile to democracy ­
Tax increases to assist 
U.S. deficit reduction 
Associated Pres.-.  dustries will suffer. setting off a new  
rt·ct·ssion.  
Endorsing a tax rnluction t( H in­ That gloom worsl·ned a hit over  
vt·stors, the Senate appr oved a provi­ tht·  last  Sl·veral  days  when  major  
sion  reducing  to  six  month:-.  tht·  hanks twice raised key interest rates.  
12-month  minimum  period  that  

over a 17-year period. Chileans ap­proved it two to one. 
Within a year Chile slipped into a disastrous depression -unemploy­ment reached 2'5 percent -and many Chileans' apathy gave way to anger, finally overflowing into "National Protest Days" of strikes and rallies staged monthly begin­ning last May, protests orchestrated 
to  the  rhythmic  banging  of  
household  pots  and  pans  in  the  
smoggy Santiago evenings.  

The demonstrations were costly -62 peoph: were killed in 1983, most shot by police in clashes with protesters. But Pinochet ended some harsher authoritarian measures and opened indirect talks with the Democratic Alliance, comprising Valdes' Christian Democrats and four other centrist panics. 
Talks collapsed. The Alliance demands Pinochet's resignation and full democracy within 18 months. The general, for most Chileans just a white-uniformed figure on televi­sion, counters with a vague scheme for future plebiscites to endorse the Pinochet way to democracy. 
But the demonstrations continue and so do the president's conces· sions. After protests March 27, Pinochet dismissed his economic team and pledged to relieve un­employment. 
The opposition is weakened by distrust -legacy of the Allende years -between its two political hlocs, the Democratic Alliance and Almcyda's Democratic Popular Movement, a coalition of Com­munists and other Marxists. 
Popular young labor leader Rodolfo Segue!, a key anti-Pinochct organizer, has sought to draw the two factions closer together, but he sounds exasperated. 
"The political differences arc very deep," he said in an interview. "It's not for labor leaders to try to resolve them." 
Elsewhere on the continent, the dash is not so bloody, hut the anti­military fever runs as high: BRAZIL 
By the tens of thousands, to a Brazilian samba beat, T-shirted protesters are parading and rallying in Rio de janeiro, Sao Paulo and other cities to demand "Dirctasja!" -"direct elections now" for presi­dent. 
They reject the 20-ycar-old military government's pian for the presidential choice to be made next Jan. I'5 hy an electoral college dominated by the pro-military party. As elsewhere, debt-burdened Brazil's economic woes feed popular anger at a leadership the peoph: did not choose. 
URUGUAY 
The I 1-yl·ar-old military govern­ment promises national elections for next November, but the traditional 
property must he owned before 
r-------------------------•
prollts from its sale qualil)' for I A TTENT/ON CLASS OF '87 I prdi.·rt·ntial tax treatmt·nt as a capi­
I Applications for Sophomore Advisory Councif·l
tal gain. The Sl·nate rl·jccted, 82-14, an I are available in the Student Activities Office 1 amendment that would han· kept 
I unti/5pm Friday, Apri/13. 
1 tinder thl· plan envisioned by con­
the holding period at 12 months. 

1-------------------------------------~ 
gressional kadcrs. the tax increases panics in this historically democratic country oppose the armed. forces' efforts to retain a political role indefinitely. Dissident Uruguayans turned recent soccer­victory celebrations and annual Car­nival events into anti-military protests. 
PARAGUAY 

Stroessner, who has held power for three decades, has allowed two dozen old political foes to return from years of exile. But the dissi­dents' activities are tightly con­trolled, and few Paraguayans expect any quick liberalization. 
In the midst of this trend toward democracy, however, some ofSouth America's new civilian governments are under pres.'iurc. 
Bolivia is the likeliest candidate for a reversal of the democratic trend. A possible military coup is now openly discussed in La Paz, where President Heman Sites Zuazo's 17-month-old elected government is wracked by economic indecision. 
I .. ·­

: •t:···
' ..... • 
~ 
I ft 
" 

One million Brazilians took part in a protest rally in Rio De janeiro Tuesday. The protestors demanded that the military imple­ment direct presidential elections. Brazil is just one of several South American nations turning away from military regimes toward democracy. Story at/eft. AP Pboto 

VAN LINES Bans this wee.nd-Fri. & Sat.-movies, shopping, dining -Umversity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50¢ Round trip. Pay as you board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 4:00on Sat. 

If There's Leadership In You OCS Can Bring ~~ Out 
OCS (Army Officer Cond1date School) IS a 14 wEA~< challenge to all thcrrs 1n you...the mental. the physic()! the spirit that are part ot what makes a leader. It OCS were easy, it cotJidn't do the JOb. It wouldn't bring out the leader in you. or help you discover what you have inside But when you finish and graduate as a commisioned officer in the Army, you'll know. You'll know you have what it takes to lead. And you'll be trim. alert, fit. and ready to exercise the leadership skills that civilian com­panies look for. If you're about to get your degree and you want to de­velop your leadership ability. take the OCS Challenge. Coli your local Army Recruiter. and ask about OCS. 
•'l lnM nosgt'.f>JBneS 234-4187 Coli Collect 
Army. Be All You Can Be. 
will open the way t(Jr new spending rl·ductions to produce a package this year that would reduce the ddkit by $1 <;() billion to S200 bil­lion over tlw m:xt three years. 
As hard a tirnl· as Congrl"Ss had t.·onJing up with a package of even that siZl', it would he hardly more than a drop in the hucket, since the dt·ficits arc expected to total at least 
S<;4-i hill ion, and perhaps as much as 
noo billion, during the same three 
years. 
Although thl·re is far from unani­mous agreement, there is a gcnt·ral consensus among economists, in­Vl'Stment authoritit:s and members of Congress that the rising federal ddkits will eventually drain off so much of tht· available credit that the 
Applications for 
ASSISTANT TREASURER 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Must presently be a Sophomore Accountina maior 
Ifyou have any question, stop by or caU 239-7417 and askfor AI. 
Appfications Due 
Friday, April13 4:00PM 
homebuilding and -auh-anohik in­
~------~---~ 





~i~~~_()__i_ll___t__________________Th_ur_~-~-'~-ril_1_2,_19-84--p-~-e7_ 
The continuing wait for an alcohol policy 
Alcohol is to be prohibited in all party spaces on this campus when and where students under the age of21 arepresent. 
This is the alcohol policy many students expect to be handed down from the Provost as recommended by the Committee on the Responsible Use ofAlcohol More optimistic students, though, still hope for a policy less restrictive than a 21-campus. 
The previous paragraph hinges on the two words, "expect" and "hope." By this date, students should be mounting a formal protest, or breathing a sigh of relief, and toasting the A.lcohol Committee's chairman, Father William Beauc­hamp. Neither a mug nor a picket sign can be raised, though, because the ad­ministration has yet to announce a new alcohol policy. 
In a forum held in Breen-Phillips Feb. 21, Beauchamp said the policy should be released by April l. One ofthe reasons the April 1 deadline was set was to allow any students who might want to move offcampus because ofthe new policy to do so without forfeiting their housing deposits. The deadline for pulling con­tracts had been changed from April 2 to April 6. 
April 1 and 6 came and passed without any official word conceming the JX>licy. Student Body President Rob Bertino was the only "official" to comment on the ignored deadline. He said any student who wanted to move off campus would not be penalized. 
Today is April 12, ll days past the projected release date for the policy. A source in the Student Affairs office has confirmed that the report has been com­pleted. But still the student body is waiting for word from the Dome. 
One can only assume that the administration had little concern for meeting the deadline it had set for itself All the talk ofApril 1 had been nothing more than a pacifier for students. Housing contracts were never seen as a problem from the administrative standJX>int. 
was the committee planning all along to delay the date, waiting for a strategic time to break the news, i.e., Easter break orexam week? Was it hoping to slip the JX>licy through inconspicuously when passions had cooled and students had other things on their minds? Or was it determined not to allow enough time before summer for an organized student rebuttal? 
Judging from the lack ofuproar, few people were surprised by the announce­ment's absence. After all, for the past year the administration has been playing games with the students over the issue. Not since the decision to go co-ed has student social life been so affected by a single administrative decision ~ yet the students do not know what the decision is, when they will be informed about it, or what its effect will be. 
The administration has insisted all along that it cares about student opinion and will consider student input, but its actions indicate just the opposite ~ it is concerned merely with implementing its policy with the least tumult possible. 
Committee member Brian Callaghan set the new date for the committee's release at April 18. Then again, it might be announced in a letter over the sum­mer. _ The Observer 

A three point plan :for military adventurers 
Last week I noted with interest three par­probably the hardest, but believe me it's an ticular events on the political scene: the essential one. One more thing -this works Senate decided not to forbid U.S. combat best if the victims you select have large troops from becoming involved in Central families that will have no one to provide for America, the president spoke at Georgetown them once they're gone. asking Congress to be less hesitant with the ( 3) Buy a gun and blow your head off. The 
details ofthis step can be worked out by you, 
depending on what kind ofreaction you want
John Murphy 

your death to bring. For instance, if you want 
to impress on your parents and other relatives 
Guest column your selflessness and valor in the face ofdeath, 
do it in a small closed room in front ofthem. 
However if you want a more romantic use of military force, and the administration "circumstances surrounding death unknown" 
indicated long-term contingency plans to use effect for a girlfriend, do it in some public

U.S. troops in El Salvador. 

place a distance from home where the mess 
In light ofthese developments in halting the will get cleaned up fast without them seeing it. 

red menace, I feel the need to address those Well that's it. With these simple steps you

loyal Americans who will soon courageously can secure all the results ofa major U.S. war in 

join in combatingthis nakedly aggressive (and El Salvador: you're dead, a bunch offoreigners

aggressively naked). threat to our personal are dead and their families are starving, and 

liberties and cherished values. 

your loved ones have a healthy supply of I have no doubt that our government has Central American export crops.
given considerable thought on how to best Please don't think that I disapprove of use you in this noble battle. However, after a Reagan's efforts in Central America -quitelittle contemplation on the probable results of the contrary. There are only half as many your impending actions in Central America, I death-squad murders today as there used to 

believe I have devised a plan to secure these be each month in El Salvador. That means 

objectives at substantially lower cost to the something to me, and it should to you.

American taxpayer. 

If someone kills only half as many people
With my program we entirely avoid the this month as last, I'd have to believe he's need for expensive transportation, training seriously trying to become a better person,

and general support of a large military effort. 

and I'd support fully his right to own half the 
Yet we also achieve, albeit in a very fundamen­land in his country. I honestly believe that 

tal form, all the foreign policy goals of the paying the Contras to rape a few Nicaraguan

Reagan administration. 

women will pressure the Sandinistas into ( 1) Go to Martin's or Kroger's and buy a governing more democratically. 
case ofbananas and a case ofcoffee. Distribute 

these among your loved ones who come to I view Nicaragua's censorship ofits press as 
mind when you think great thoughts about more evidence ofSoviet-Cuban influence, and 
defending your country. For example, give a 

I'm proud of my country's censorship of its pound of coffee and a banana to both your own press in order to effectively fight that in­parents. Or give two bananas and no coffee to 
fluence in places like Grenada. your younger brother, or three pounds ofcof­
But all this is getting away from the topic of fee to your best friend. You get the idea. interest. Young Americans have a long and 
proud tradition ofdying for nothing. Or, ifnot qualifications for victims are fairly broad: they 
( 2) Find a few foreigners and kill them. The 

dying, at least having their legs blown off or just have to speak some language other than 
losing their eyes or seeing something in battle Californian, although distinguishing physical 
that made them go insane for nothing. traits like dark skin or slanted eyes are 
They did it in Vietnam. They did it in desirable. 
Grenada. And now you'll be doing it in Central Their deaths should be fairly painfuL Some 
America. And I think that's fine, my best homemade napalm would be perfect, or get 
wishes to all of you. Really. Good luck. And your hands on a few mines. This step is 
good-bye. 


P. 0. BoxQ 
Convention a success 
Dear Editor: 
I could not be happier with this 1984 edi­
tion ofthe Mock Convention. How could one 
not be thrilled over an event which drew 
more than 500 of our supposedly apathetic 
people, have them come back three nights in a 
row and have many return for a I p.m. Satur­
day session after being there until 3 a.m. in the 
morning? 
On the convention's opening night. I told 
the delegation about my hopes for this con­
vention. I hoped everyone would learn how a 
national convention operates, and how each 
candidate stands on the issues. Surely this hap­
pened, given the heart and soul I saw on the 
faces of every campaigner, every debater and 
nearly every delegate. There were the emo­
tional chants of "Gary, Gary," "Mondale, . Mondale" and, ofcourse, "Reubin, Reubin!" 
The greatest feature, though, is that no one had to work at being educated because, while this was occurring, we were fulfilling the Mock Convention's other equally important goal -meeting people and having a great time. 
I am proud of the Hart-Boggs ticket. It is a refreshingly new one, steeped in those tradi­tional Democratic ideals Mike Turpen spoke of -compassion, courage and idealism. And anyone who thinks Mrs. Boggs is a token woman ought to think again -she is ex­perienced, effective, a great source of good­will and one of the new leaders of the Democratic party. 
I am equally proud of the delegates, par­ticularly on Friday night. Having begun Friday at 7 p.m., we still had more than 80 percent of the original crowd eight hours later when, at the height ofdrama. Mike Brogioli conceded the Mondale campaign and Bernie Pelligrino's Hart forces fmally triumphed over the courageous, upstart Reubin Askew campaign. We really came together then, and the drama and emotion of that night is a feeling I won't soon forget. 
And all this on a weekend in an arena where alcohol was not sold. I guess we all put our alleged alcohol problems behind for four days and discovered that proverbial "great social event without alcohol for sale" which is so sorely needed around here. Too bad it will be another four years, unless we can think of something for the general election next fall. 
All my thank.<; to my committee, to Mary An­thony, Mike Beaudine, Katie Collins, Beth DeBauche, Ken Fisher, Mitsy Hasley, Bill Hea­ly, Paul Komyatte and Pete Pierret. And a great big thanks to the delegates -you were fantas­tic. It could never have come offwithout you. 
Tom O'Leary Mock Convention Chairman 

What's the 

beef? 
Have you read something in The Obseroer you didn't quite agree with? Ifso, why not write a letter to the editor. Letters to the editor must be well-written and typed. They must also bear the address, telephone numberand signature of the author (initials and pseudo­nyms are not acceptable). All let­ters are subject to editing and 
become the property of The Ob­server. 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor. ....... Margaret F osmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ........... r:-Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials.represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor . ............. Mary Heal)  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  




Sports Briefs 
Irish baseball team could manage only three runs as Michigan State swept a doubleheader yesterday at East Lansing, Mich., 7-1 and 7·2. Ralf Mojsiejenko and Eric Sandenburg combined on a fiv~·hitter for the Spartans in the first game. In the nightcap, the Irish took a 2-0 lead in the first inning when junior David Clark's triple knocked in Mike Trudeau and Mike Metzler In the bottom of the first, however, the Spartans scored three runs and never looked back. The Irish are now 11-12 on the season. -Tbe Observer 
An NVA GolfReview. featuring golfpro Dick Walker, will be held on April 18 at 4 p.m. on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse.· This will be a refresher class on the fundamentals ofthe various golf strokes and is for golfers at all levels who are looking for a short review. The cost is one dollar and registration is through the NVA office. The number there is 239-6100. -Tbe Observer 
Mike Bobinski. former Irish baseball pitcher, has been named Notre Dame's ticket manager and assistant business manager. The 26-year·old Bobinski replaces Steve Orsini, who last month was named ticket manager for the Dallas Cowboys of the National Foot· ball League. Bobinski assumes his duties immediately. -Tbe Ob­sen'er 
The ND-SM C ski team awards banquet will be hetd Monday, April 16. Watch for your invitation by mail. For more in­formation, call Julie Currie at 283-4434. -Tbe Observer 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golf course. It's coming up this Saturday at I 0 a.m. Deadline for entries is tomorrow. Registration musr be made in person at the NVA office, and a three doll.tr fee will be charged. Trophies and T·shirts will be awarded. -Tbe Observer 
Thursday, April12, 1984-page 8 
The Bengal Bouts banquet will be held tonight at 6 

p.m. at the Pone Express. Maps are available at the NVA office. For more information call Tom at 1728, Angelo at 3348, or Mike at 8308. 
-Tbe Observer 
Notre Dame cheerleaders for 1984-85 have 
been named. The squad features juniors Lynette Boggs, Lynn Thomas, Billy Thallemer (captain) and Joe Buch (alternate); soph­omores Helen McCormick, Julia Page, Kathy Ravotti, Anne Stubbs, Jeanie Poole (alternate), Rich Cramer, Ron D'Angelo, Carl Gebo and Paul Mazelin; freshman Pat Wenning. The squad will make its debut at the Blue-Gold football game on Saturday, April 28. -Tbe Ob­
server 
An Irish Guard organizational meeting will take place today, April 12, at 4:30 p.m. on Green Field. Many openings are available for the 1984 season. All interested candidates should at· rend and must be at least 6·2. Those with questions should call 1221. 
-Tbe Observer 
Glenn Wilson's RBI single capped a four-run 
ninth-inning rally, leading the Philadelphia Phillies to a 7-6 victory over the Houston Astros last night. Luis Aguayo opened the inning by walking off Asrros reliever Vern Ruhle. One our later, pinch-hitter Garry Maddox reached on shortstop Craig Reynolds' throwing er­ror. Frank DiPino relieved and pinch-hitterJohn Wockenfuss drove Aguayo home with an RBI single, bur was thrown out at second. Losing pitcher Bill Dawley, 0-1, then relieved and Virgil hit a 3-2 pitch over the left field wall to tie the game. Mike Schmidt then walked and stole second, andJoe Lefebvre was intentionally walked, before Wilson delivered his game-winning hit off Dave Smith, the fourth Asrros' pitcher ofthe inning. Bill Campbell, 1-0, pitched three scoreless innings of relieffor the win, allowing just one hit. In other National League action, Montreal defeated Cincinnati, 9-3, San Diego topped St. Louis, 5-2, and San Francisco bear Pittsburgh, 2-1. In the American League, Kansas City defeated Baltimore, 5-2. -AP 
Los Angeles squeaks past Chicago, 2-1 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Mike Scioscia's sacrifice fly in the sixth inning scored Pedro Grurrero to snap a 1-1 tie and give the Los Angeles Dodgers a 2·1 victory over the Chicago Cubs last night. 
Rick Honeycutt, 1-0, went the dis· ranee for Los Angeles, the first Dodger pitcher to hurl a complete game this season. The lefi·hander scattered seven hits, struck our five and walked no one. Scott Sanderson, 0-1, took the loss. 
The Dodgers scored in the second inning when Greg Brock doubled to right and scored on Scioscia's single. 
The Cubs tied the score in the fourth when Gary Matthews led off with a single, took second on a throwing error by Honeycutt, went to third as Ron Cey grounded out 
and  scored  on  a  single by  Keith  
Moreland.  ·  
Guerrero  started  the  Dodgers'  

winning rally in the sixth with a single. Mike Marshall followed with a single and one our later, Bill Russell singled to right to fill the bases. Scioscia followed with his scoring fly ball. 
Ir marked the second consecutive game·winning RBI for the Dodger catcher, who is coming back from a shoulder injury that sidelined him the final four and a halfmonths ofthe 1983 season. 
Tbe Obseroer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. Tbe Obseroer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac·



Classifieds 
ters r da . 
NOTICES 
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 277-6045. W /ptck up & deliver 
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082 

LOUIE S FAMILY STYLE ITALIAN RESTAURANT·comer of Notre Dame and South Bend Avenues( 1 00 feet from the bars) 1 SO olff any large piZza 
WE HAVE THE LOWEST AIRFARES TO EUROPE! FOR FREE COLOR BROCHURE, WRITE TO: CAMPUS TRAVEL, BOX 11387, ST. LOUIS, MO 
63105. 
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBIIIIIII 
JUNIORS, SENIORS, GRAD STU. DENTS I EnJoy the convenience ol your own credH carda at leading depart· ment stores, oil companlea, and banka. No coat to apply. II you are a Junior, Senior or Gr8duate student, you're eligible. Call toll-tree 800-523­4804. College CredH Card Corporation, "The Most Truated Name On Campus." 
TYPING· 6 YRS. EXPERIENCE AT NO. MY HOME. 277-3085. 

FOOLS FOOLS ST EDWARDS HALL PRESENTS Ne11 S1mon·s comedy on Fnday and Saturday mghts 1n Wah1nglon Hall at 800 p m ONLY $1.00111 REWRITE 
DR WHO · R1de needed anywhere oN planet I am tntelhgent.creattve. and beaut1lul I can scream on request and play a mean game ol chess but I doni have a laser butlt tnto my nose Call Koqa 
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
LOST/FOUND I 

FOUND A SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A SNOWBANK BEFORE BREAK I CANT FIGURE IT OUT. YOU TRY HOW CAN SOMEBODY JUST LEAVE THEIR SPARE TIRE SITTING ON A SNOW· BANK WHEN THEY HAVE TO DRIVE HOME? II you th1nk that the dummy m1ght be you. call 7559 
LOST GOLD ND MEN S RING LOST 
BEFORE BREAK SOMEWHERE ON CAMPUS. IT HAS A BLUE STONE WITH ND ENGRAVED ON TOP MY NAME AND YEAR (85) ARE ENGRAVED INSIDE. THERE IS A LARGE REWARD OFFERED FOR ITS RETURN. IF YOU KNOW .WtiERE Jl MAY BE.. P.LEASE. , CALL JEFF O'NEILL AT 8854 LOST Citizen watch w/gold case & black band on 4/4 inS Quad ST area Call7992 after 11 
LOST Two tan jackets at Ftanner Names 1ns1de If found please contact Mike or Marl< at 3546 
LOST KEYS NEAR THE ACC · RAG· QUETBALL COURTS PLEASE CALL 153CAVANAUGH·1401 
FOUND UMBRELLA AT STEPHAN 7 
CALL 3329 TO IDENTIFY 
LOST Between Zahm and LaFortune: a black classic Cross pen In a leather case. Reward. Please call SMC-5448. Thankal 
FOUND 161N. NECKLACE FLANNER PARTY ROOM APR 6. CALL 1076 TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM 
LOST monday Apnl 9 between Alumni and Admtmstratton Butldtng Stiver statn· less steel watch w1th day/date and Rolex 1ns,gn1a.REWARDcaiiCarl at 1034 
FOUND. A contact tens case after 4/9 Stepan bookstore games Call 7559 to clatm. 
lost blue wallet wrth ra1nbow tnm. keep the sentimental pictures ot my friends, JUSt return my license!!! 
FOUND MAROON UMBRELLA OUTSIDE ROOM 207 WALSH. COME AND PICK IT UP ANYTIME 
ad LOST Gold necklace w1th d1amond pendant. Twenly·flrsl b1thday present. $$Reward Call Beth 7813 
LOST:Pa~r ot sh1ny small Army boots. backstage at ISO Fest Peg 1314 
.__I_FO_R_R_EN_T___, 
HOUSES· Furn1shed 1 m1le lrom campus 4·6 bedrooms. 2 baths Call277·3461 
FOR RENT 2bedrm TURTLECREEK APT FURNISHED at NO COST CALL SANDY or LISA 277·8497 
WANTED 


RIDERS NEEDED to NEWARK. NEW JERSEY.Ieaving South Bend Fnday April 13andreturmngMondaymomlng. Even if you only want to go part way! cal 485· 
• -394aafter g pm and ask tor Cheryl. 
Ride needed to Cini1/Miam1 U Fri 4/13 to Sun 4/15..Dave 8408 
I NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE· SCRANTON·PHILA. AREA FOR EAS· TEA CAN LEAVE 4/16 CALL MARK 234·2252 
NEED RIDE TO U OF TOLEDO FOR MSB CONCERT 4/14 CALL SMC 5097 
RIDE NEEDED TO NY (WESTCHESTER. WHT PLAINS) FOR EASTER CAN LEAVE WED 4·18 DEB SMC4265 
2 NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR BREAK CAN ONLY LEAVE THURS 4 00 CALL SMC 5097 
Riders needed to U or I Thurs. April 19 L1nda SMC 5216 
Ride needed to CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
AREA lor Easter Break. Can leave 
Wednesday night. Please call Maggie 284-5091 
Riders needed to Ct. for Easter call Jan1ne 284·4292 
PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239· 5313 OR 277·4851 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED CALL PAUL AT 239·5313 or 277·4851. 
Permanent Part·t1me Help Wanted. Ap· plications now be1ng taken. No phone calls please. Pandoras Books 937 South Bend Ave 
Need nde to Columbus OH for Easter Can leave 4/19 after 10:00 AM Rena 6946. 
Need nde to CHICAGO for Easter Can leave 4/18(PM) Cynth 6946 
NEED RIDE to CONNECTICUT for EAS· TEA please call PAT at 8423 
need nders to philadelphia for easter: leave wednesday morn; 277 ·6250: chris 
NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON FOR EAS· TEA CALL STEVE AT 8105. 
A1de needed to U of Illinois. Leave 4113 Will share usual. Debb1e 2191 
RIDE NEEDED to CT/NYC for Easter Eileen 277·1325 
Need ride to SYRACUSE Area for Easter Call8017 
FOR SALE 
MAXELL & TDK TAPE~ .. g qO, ~a, , 'MEAKS277:3306 .. ' 
l 

PITTSBURGH CLUB BUS SIGNUPS: THURSDAY APRIL 12, LAFORTUNE L'IL THEATRE, 7:00. ROUNDTRIP $40,
TICKETS 

ONE WAY $25. ALL INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR NEXT YEAR'S OF­FICERS CALL 7838.
HELP' FAMILY CANT BELIEVE THAT I 
AM GRADUATING. need commence· TIRGESS IS OUT SIPPING BRANDY SO ment TICKETS be my saviour. Dan 277· WISH HER A HAPPY 22! HAPPY B·DAY 6366 KIM I TIE ONE ONI C 

NEED DESPERATELY 2 GRADUATION Dear A1mee. Thanks for the WONDER·TICKETS. WILL PAY. CALL CAROL FUL SYR Ill Love. Boom 4418 

NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. 
PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 7781. 

To the g1rl at cheerlead1ng aud111ons last Sat. sitting directly across lrom the judges HUGE DOMER family wants to see their with a blue. yellow. and assorted striped last son graduate I DESPERATE fortix. $$ (vertical) sh1rt. Call Walt (white pants. gold Call Paul after 8pm 234·2510. 
rugby) at 8295 
DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATIION ZariaTIX' Can pay$. Please call Greg at 3317. 

Only 1 day left! Prepare lor tomorrow nile! I can't wait. 
I need 4 grad tix in a big way Call Larry 
1638 BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS DON'T FORGET POTAWATOMI ZOO THIS$$$ AND HOTEL RES. TRADE FOR 1 SATURDAY CALL JOHN AT 1802 IF IN·GRAD. TIX STEVE 277·6055 TERESTED 

GRADUATION TIX ·NEED 2! WILL PAY the besHook1ng guys on campus hve 1n$$$! CALL MEGHAN AT 7260. PLEASE 150151 alumni HELP I 

Applications For ASSISTANT TREASURER 
PERSONALS STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Are now available '"the Student Govern­OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. ment aff1ces on the 2nd floor at CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE 
LaFortune 

BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Applicants should presently be SOPHO· MORE accounting majors. Apphcat1ons are DUE: 
Need a place to stay th1s summer? Want FRIDAY, APRIL 13 AT 4 pm. Ia sublet a 2 bedroom townhouse apart· ment. 1, 2 or 3 tenants. Within walk1ng dis­tance of campus Sem1-furn1shed. NEED ANOTHER ROOM MATE FOR OC $250/month without utilities (negotiable) NEXT YEAR? Call Matt at 1213. I really Call283·1479 want to move OC. HELP!!! 
HEY PRINCE CHARMING: Dallas Will 
never be the same .. see you on the 4th! 
QUESTION&: 

What are you doing this Sunday night? TODD OWERS:REATOR OF HOOSIER 
DAY AT THE DINING HALL (AND PROUD OF IT TOOl) Dalek Pest Control· we exterm1nate! 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES 
DELIVERED BY THE YELLOW SUB· THEODORE S. OWERS KEEP IT UP 

AND THE FCC WILL REVOKE YOURMARINE MON· THUR 8·11 & FRI·SAT 8· LICENSE SIGNED. THE WEASEL 1 CALL 272·445311 MR IDAHO TURNS 19 TODAY! YALL
Q: WHY DON'T EE'S EVER GO TO PARTIES. A: THEIR APPLE II DOESN'T 

COME UP TO 316 MORRISSEY AND KISS HIS POTATOES! DAIQUIRI DAI·HAVE A LONG ENOUGH CORD. 
QUIRI DAIQUIRI DAIQUIRI DAIQUIRI I I i!aiPI?Y ~IRTHDAY. CAL! THIS ~S!>AG~ SPONSORED BY THE HIVe you hugged a Cavanlte today? SOUTHERN BRANCH OF AMERICAN POTATO LOVERS 
Cavanaugh Week 

5:30 Stepan 1 Now running through Apri/15 Five Guys That Like to Puke ... , , , , , , , , ·• , • Be (h~r~t, , , , , , . . • • AGINIII 
••••• I •••••• ' =' ••• ·-······'''tt.~.··.··.··..'..'··,.·J..···'··...·...•..~.·.·~ 
JIM ROSENGARTEN IS NOT runmng for UMOC (as far as he knows) 
HE·MAN WOMAN HATERS CLUB OF N D. THE GEO·GRAPHICAL AGES OF N D WOMEN. FROM 14 TO 17 THEYRE LIKE AFRICA. HALF VIRGIN. HALF EX· PLORED FROM 18 TO 22 THEY RE LIKE ANTARCTICA. FROZEN AND FRIGID. FROM 23 TO 35 THEYRE LIKE ASIA. HOT.TORRID. AND MYTERIOUS. FROM 35 TO 45 THEY RE LIKE AMERICA. EFFICIENT AND COOPERATIVE FROM 45 TO 55 THEY'RE LIKE EUROPE. DEVASTATED BUT STILL GOOD AF­TER 55 THEY'RE LIKE AUSTRALIA EVERYBODY KNOWS WHERE. THEY ARE BUT NO· BODY VISITS THEM 
WE NEED HAMS YES WE NEED YOU TO READ FOR THE SHAKESPEARE READING MARATHON CALL SUSIE· 3821. JOHN GUID0·239-7735 OR OMBUD·6283 OR SIGN UP AT THE OMBUDDESK 
Don't think ff won't happen just because ff hasn't happened yet ·Jackson Browne 
Who tore up Knollwood·s dance floor? It was Reva. the Micheal J of ND Maybe lessons are needed. Call the Canlemen·s Club dance studio at 3217 If Interested. weekend ttmes are still open 
Today IS the 2nd Anniversary of LAKE BRIAN BURT DAY So DUNK h1m Mornssey Men! P S Happy B1rthday Kim 
Greene' 

Bety·The buttons are back on.we re NOT even! Heads up for Chuck and tnends Psyched for the weekend Luv ya. Jell 
FOR SALE ONE GOLD ND MENS RING. FOUND BEFORE BREAK SOME­WHERE ON CAMPUS IT HAS A BLUE STONE WITH ND MONOGRAM NAME AND YEAR SCRATCHED BEYOND RECOGNITION IF INTERESTED. CALL GUIDO AT 8854 FOR FURTHER IN· STRUCTIONS. COME ALONE. AND REMEMBER. NO POLICE 
TO THE MAN WHO GIVES MEL GIB· SON AND LOUIS JORDAN A RUN FOR THEIR MONEY. I HAD A WONDERFUL TIME ON 4/6 LOOKING FORWARD TO THE PALMER HOUSE.THE CUBS AND EVEN TIME WITH YOU 
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
WANTED · A real soccer team for the Lady lnsh. If found. please call Phoebe Hoffman 
RNNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
La Filla Mal Gardee. Not tust a roll1n the w,·~iaht th'roug~"il'UI\o!llllrl!41~ •.• •• 

-----------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, April12, 1984-page 9 
Tom Weyenberg, Scott Criminski, Dan Edmun· dowicz, Tom Wrobel and Mike Stephan (left to right) otherwise known as WIMPS, bam it up 
GRADUTE WOMEN'S STUDIES SPECIALIZATION In the M.A. in Philosophy *Earn credentials in both Philosophy & Women's Studies in one 12 month program 
* 
Assist in and quality to teach both subjects *;Engage in independent and feminist research *·Work closely with highly qualified interdisciplinary 

faculty 

* 
Gain valuable experience in women's oriented institutions and activities 

* 
Assistantships available write today: Dr. Sheila Ruth, Director 


Women's Study Program Dept. of Philosophical Studies 
Box43 Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville 
Edwardsville, IL 62026 
An afflrmattve. equat opportunity employer 
Summer Special Rates 
883-1959 STORAGE 

SUMMER STORAGE Reservation MASTER-MINI-WAREHOUSE 
P. 0. BOX 100 NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 

1683-19591 
PLEASE GUARANTEE A STORAGE SPACE FOR: 
NAME'------------------------------· 
ADDRESS--------------------------~ 
NCTRE DAME, I1"D1ANA 46556 DATE______________ 
P301~----------· 

ENCLOSED IS MY $15.00 DEPOSir FOR A: 
§
5x5xl0 585.00 P:~s $15.00 DEP 
5xl0xl0 $100.00 PLUS 515.00 DEP 
8x10x10 $140c00 PLUS 515.00 DEP
D 10x15x12 5200.00 PLUS $25.00 DEP
D10x20x12 S225.00 PLUS S25c00 DEP PRICES ARE FOR MAY, JIDt'"E, JULY, AUG 
VERY ClOSETO CAMPUS 
APPROX 2~ MILES NORTH U.S. 31~Jl 
' 

. . 
GATESOPfN ALL D.A Y SUNDAY 
. J.he Observer;Javier 

during baftime of their Bookstore game at Stepan. The WIMPS lost to Dartb and the Light Raiders, 21-1. 
C>QO"".,.,.,.....aocr.,...~..o-J""J"J""J""J"J"J"~..o"'-'-'J""J"J""-'~..o-..;ecoc 
Assertion Training Workshop 2 
By popular demand, the Notre Dame Counsel­ing & Psychological Services Center is offering a second workshop on assertion ski lis 
Dates: 4/25/84 6:30pm • 9:30pm 4/28/84 1 :00 · 3:30pm 
This workshop is a 2 session structured activity in which you will learn about assertion skills, when they are appropriate, and practice how to use them. The workshop will be held at C&PSC To sign up: Call 239-7336 or stop by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center, 3rd floor, Student Health Center, M-F from 9-5 
RESERVATION 
DON'T WAIT AND BE LATE, SEND IN YOUR RESERVATION 
' TODAYI! 

• 
Supurb Location 

• 
Eaay Access 

• 
Paved Drives 

• 
You kHp The Key 


efenced In est..l Doors 
• Well Lighted e Size• to fit everyones needs 


Rose gets married but held hitless 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Pete Rose took five walks yesterday -four to first base and one down the aisle. 
The Montreal left fielder got married in his hometown earJy yes· terday, then went 0-for-1 with four walks in the Expos' 9·3 afternoon victory over the Cincinnati Reds to remain one hit shy of4,000. 
His next shot at that mark will come in Montreal's home opener Friday night against the Philadelphia Phillies, the only other team for which he has played. 
"I'm going to get another hit this year. I'm not worried about that," 
MASTER 

MINI-WAREitOUSE 


I~
ST.MARYS NOTRE
1 
!~ 
DAME 

(/) 
=:> SOUTH BEND 
Rose said. ''I'm just happy we won today's game. I'm a little disap· pointed, but it was just one of those things that happen." 
The wedding, Rose's second, was a private ceremony at his attorney's office. He married 29-year-old Carol Woliung ofLawrenceburg, Ind. 
"It was a short ceremony this morning, that's all," Rose said, shrug· ging it off. "That's something you do on your way to getting 4,000." 
"I had to get married because that was the only way I could get her on the team plane back to Montreal. 
Only  wives  are  allowed  on  the  
plane."  
With  the  nuptials  behind  him,  

Rose turned his attention to getting the lone hit that keeps him from the plateau reached only by Ty Cobb. 
He swung only once, fouling off a pitch, while drawing walks in his frrst three trips to the plate against starter Bruce Berenyi. He walked on a 3·2 count and a pair of 3·1 counts, while the fans booed Berenyi's wild· ness. 
Rose hit the frrst pitch back to reliever Frank Pastore in the sixth, and drew a walk on a 3·1 count from Pastore in his last at-bat in the eighth. 
Fans tossed debris on the field when Rose was taken out for a pinch runner, and Pastore was booed when he was removed. 
"The only bad thing about the whole day, I think, is I didn't like the reaction toward Pastore," Rose said. "He was just trying to do his job." 
Cobb set the all-time record of 4,191 hits in 24 major-league seasons with Detroit and Philadel· phia in the American League. 
Cobb reached 4,000 hits in his 23rd season at age 40, playing for Philadelphia in 1927. 
NILES. 
o .1. "-<6. • I. "-o l • l t I I ._ II. r C. t I I II t IL ,._ 1L II_ ' 'l ._ ._, ... ._ ...... .._ ~ .,. .. ~ .. .,. , ·• ,.. ..... w -. ~ ., • • ., ., " • ,. • e 1 • 1 t 00 0 • , • • , r .......• ...-.-, 
1 

............ ,. .. ,. ,. ...
~ ~ 

The Observer Thursday, April12, 1984-page 10 

And on the fourth day • • • 
Yn:tcrday's RC"sulb 
Stepan 1 

Yuur frt"'udlan SUp(§ Showing over~ &·rcanu From lhel..ofthy 17 Uuffaln Ride" over Teenage l.ohotomies by 4 Pat liwlng & 3 Orhc:r Guys That Can't Add over 
9012'Shy I" Over 1hc l.lmlt over Trut.'kcr & lht· l>ookcrs by 16 Stepan 2 Boyle & Other !'lc.x:lall>l:tiea...c-~ nver Eagcr For Famc by I~ Scrah:h Twkc & the .\ lh.:hc.-~ uvcr (:haotit: OscUia­tlon!ihy IH . A Pcr~on;,~l Allou:k On ;,~. Noire Damt: Sludent over The Non-Ideal Solution by 14 Tht: Non·EntUtc~ uvcr (iravlty Is a Myth-The hnh Sm:k.-. hy 13 Stepan3 Tom'~ Tool MonMcN over The Smokin' Slub-E's by I_~ Gerry, Dtggcr & ;\Other l.osers overJc:~Jack!4on & rhe Uymlc RLL•uen by I:\ Short On fldgfu ovcr A \l"uman, a BJac:k, 2 jew~ & a Cripple by~ Dead <>n Arrival uvc-r Gus& the lliippy Uclfer Haler~ by 2 
Stepan 4 
l>arth & the Ughl Sahcrs over WIMPS by lU 

GucJ'!i t)wn t>runk.s II over USAF J>c:mnn.'!itration Ba.'i­
kt<tb:dl Precl~ion by 8 
Th(· Penn KJnl(;.'man over Navel Lint by 4 
Red Rt<d Wine: over P.P & the Knads by I 'S 

.'ltepan 5 Risky Uuslnc!-1 over KRAP by forfeit I>eanirudt'!l over The Macintosh & 4 Other Had 
Appl<• by 17 
Knox's Kno(.'ken over Chid 4-fuot & Tribe by 6 
Windy City A(:tion nw:r Rot:kil b)' IH 
Stepan6 ..,J, 

Eht Scixclsyd over S Jewish Doctors In Search of a Tip-Of. 22-20 The Modc:m l.overs over The l.a.'it Hurrah by 16 ~ Guys Who Couldn't Think of a Real . over The 
ReiUm ufSwahili by ~ 
Stepan 7 

Kennedy & Co. over Drunk Drivers Against Morhen. 
by9 
Bookstore9 

Where's rhc Queef? over 4 Akoholics & An Expt:rt 
On Akohul by I~ 

The Capt.;,.in Made ll!t t>u II over tube Joh & the Rig 
I>ummtc:sbr 4 

Logan's Heroes over Mary Di & the Di-Hard~ by 8 
Cleveland over Mit:haeiJat:kson'~ Flaming Heads by 
II Bookstore 10 1 Oflls Has the Clap ovc:r The AnTostal Olympians by II Dust over Fr. Beauchamp & 4 Other Guys Who Will ReTaking Shots . . by ') Pli:ying \l'lchouc McNabss ovc:-r The Moral lmplka­rlons4 Bungholes ovc:-r Your Mother Can'l Wrestle But You Ought To 5<< . by 4 
Lyons 11 
l>iny Hare:·Up over BrwHer & Hi.'i Boosters hy7 

Dyspareunia (Aka Fopdi) over The UgJicr We Look, the: Be-lter We Play by 4 'S Guys \t'ho Didn't Have To ... over The Boxer RebtiJJnn Gets ChJJdish by 9 Human Athlete & 4 Other Guys Who Can . . over A Night On lhe Townie; by 7 Lyons 12 While l.ightningover We Never Practice Even Once by 21 
Angels topple Brewers 
Associated Press 

ANAHEIM, Calif. -Rookie right­hamler Ron Romanick scattered nine hits for his first major-league vktory bc:fore needing last-out help as the: California Angc:ls downed the Milwaukee Brewers 9-'; last night. 
Romanick, 1-0, in only his second major-league game walked three and struck out three. He was ·sup­ported by California's biggc:st of­knsive outburst of the season, featuring three RBis by Reggie jack­
son. 

Jackson gavt: the: Angt:ls a 1-0 lt:ad with a first-inning single after loser Moose llaas. 0-2. walked Gary Pettis and Rod Carew. Doug DeCinces' sacrifice fly scored Carew to make it 2-0 and the Angcls added two more runs in the: second inning on Rob Wilfong's kadoff homer, his first of the season, and Carew's single. 
After the: llrcwers scorc:d their first run on Bc:n Oglivie's triple and Jim Gantner's single in the fifth, Wil­fong's RBI singk made it S-1 in the 

Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
Lovers. 21-S. jack McLaughlin proved ro be: the best lover, hitting eight of 14 shots. 
Today, S6 teams will head out to the: asphalt courts to continue the: first round Bookstore: action. 
At 4 p.m., the: best bet probably is the: matchup hetwec:n Showtimc and Five Marinc:s Who Do It With a Grunt. The: two tcams will collide on Bookstore: I 0. 
Latc:r in the: aftcrnoon, Bookstore I 0 will be: the: site: of the clash hc:­twc:en Blccding Ax Wounds II and Anothcr Good Recruiting Year. The: game: starts at 6: IS, which will force fans ro choose: betwcen that game and the: one: taking place: at the same: time: on Stc:pan 2. In that game:, Encore: mc:c:ts Sincercly Yours, LC. Grccnwood. 

bottom of the: inning. Dc:Cinces' sc:cond sacrifice fly made: it 6-1 in the: sixth and a sacrifice: fly by Pcttis plus)ackson's two-run single: uppcd the: !cad to 9-1 in the: sevc:nth. 
Rkk Manning singled home Mil­waukc:c:'s sccond run in the ninth and Luis Sanchc:z allowcd a two-run single to Randy Rcady and an RBI single to Robin Yount bcforc: gc:tting the final out. 
Tom Veblin . .Stoned over The Celibacy Hall 5 by 
13 
F.AQ. over Pook.it: & the.· Nudeartype Writers by 3 
FauM Won't Play Marshall Rut We Will ovC"r Soulh 
l>akot,a Delicacies by I 0 
Today's Games 
Stepan 1 

4:00 -Make Yuns Not War v. Dt'!'ltiny Without a 
Cau:,.c 4:45-We're Not In Lebanon Because We t:an't . 
v. The Nads 
5:30 -S Guy~ That Likt< To Puke, Again v. '; Guys With No Hope 
Stepan2 4:00-Baltic Avenue v. Woops 
4:45 -The Addams Family v. Boy George & tht: 4 
Steroid" 5,30-Fred v.)ohn 3,16 6:15-Encore v. Sincerely Yours, L.C. Greenwood 
Stepan 3 

4:00 -Jesse Ja<:kson Paid the Abonion Dill v. 865 
Lbs. of While Bed. 
4:4S -Windex Gang v. SUnder 'S·'S 
6,15 -Gil Thorpe Might As Well jump _. v. We 
Can Shool But We Need He-r .. Stcpan4 
6: 
l S -Quick Exit v. Win Or Lose We Slill Bouzt: Stepan S 

6:1"5-The 5 v.John Murphy's Slime Train V Stepan6 

6: 
15 -Dave v. Strapama.'iqueon Bookstore9 


4:00 -The B-Man's Team v. What's a Basketball? 4:4S-Free Whelin v.Jomigod & the Val Dudes <;:30-Go Ahead, Make Our Day v. Outta Here 
6:1 ')-Pud'sSpud Pubbers v. Does Your Rollmmate 
Have Half a Beard? Bookstore 10 
4:00 -Showtilnc v. 5 Marines Who Do II With a 
Grunt 'k:\0 -A Shun Fat Guy v. Fat Chicks 
6: I'; -Bleeding Ax Wounds II v. Another Good 
Reuuiling Yt:ar Lyonsll 
4:00 -Cubiyad? v. Gomer's Heroes 
4:4S -Astronomk--al Tools v. Captain Punishment & the Chain Gang 
S:30 -A Wet Campus Is A Hot Campus v. Chicks Dig Us 
6: J 5 -Yes, \l'e Will Lose In the first Round v. But· bwcat & Tears 
Lyons12 4:00-The Monk Bought Lunch v. Notre Dame 4:4'\-Mr. Bob & His Dog Slug v. Suicide Squad c;:30-CRAMM!! v. Soft Soap In theJacuzzi 
6: I 'S -Planet Q-22 v. Ed Smierciak & 4 Otht>r Guys That Are Better 


THURSDAY SPECIALS 3-Spm·Mixed Drinks...••2 for 1 
Sip ap nowl Corby Open GoU Toamyll 

..CJQowe~rg fp!l aQQ occagiottg" 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway· 2~~:~_354 1 

750ml 

8.99 lancers Table Wines 
750ml 

2.99 
QUARTS Old Milwaukee 7.39 Budweiser 9.89 
TAP DEPOSIT NOW ONLY 
$30.00 
PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE STORE ONLY 
BEER 

Old Milwaukee or 
Old  
Milwaukee  
LightLP  5.49  
OlympiaLP  6.79  
Pabst 24boHiea  6.99  
Pabst Light LP  6.29  
Miller High  
Life LP  7.99  
Guinness  
Stout 24boHies  17.99  

KEGS 
Busch 
haHbbl 

27.99 Old Milwaukee 
haHbbl 

23.99 
Budweiser 
haHbbl 

31.99 
Old Style
halfbbl 

27.99 
PRICES GOOD THRU APRIL 7, 1984 
LIQUOR
.Milwaukee. ~HStlurkey 7.99 
Popov or King Cellar 
:todka 7.99 
King Cellar 
Rum 






0l<L 
1.751. 

8.99 Kahlua 



Bloom Connty 

Mellish 
11K. X, t.JHAT ~Ell, PAIIt, OTHU IJ,/I,C. f8SDNAUY,THt 00fDNSTlAT16NS IPlfl N-A fll[ ¥DU '~HE ·lAJfiE • FLANNJN6? P£1·/lfiNTH" 
\ . ,APP!AIS(flff, 
~~~ 
Guindon 


"ONE-EN!IE· PlffERIIBtV P£1?-M~NTH '? IT AJOQIP !l 11 0N/ON SAfJTtEp 
tJVEJ.'' Uf 

tPUfSt, ''fJtANIIT BVTftt ~PVP''fidUI~ 
!1/50 fPPT 

\ Tilt 8/tl,, 

~~l~ 
Richard Guindon 


~c:tcJlC)l~-----------------------------------Th-u_r~--~-,A•p-ril_1_2_,_19_8_4_-p_a_~_l_l 
Berke Breathed 


&Dave 


The Far Side Gary l.ars6n 
Campus 
•3 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Men vs Northern Illinois, Courtney Courts 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs Northern II· linois, Courtney/ Racket Club 

•4 
p.m. Radiation Lab Seminar, "Photogeneration and Characterization of Car­bonyl Ylides," Dr. C. Vijaya Kumar, Rad. Lab Con­ference Theatre 

•4:30 
p.m. -Graduate Fellowship Prayer Group Meeting, Bulla House 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "US Foreign Policy in Central America," Prof. John Gilligan, Howard Hall, Sponsored by Lyons and Howard Academic Com­missions, 

•7 
p.m. -Fund Raiser Play, "The Sunshine Boys," Chautauqua Ballroom, Sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall, Free, Donations Appreciated 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Sex," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Graduate Student Uni· on, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, Harlem Globetrotters, ACC, $8.50 and $7.50 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Late Autumn," Washington Hall 

•8 
p.ni. -ND/SMC Dance Theatre, "La Fille Mal Gardee," O'Laughlin Auditorium, S2.50 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Role Conscience and Personal Responsibility in the Bishop's Pastoral," Gordon Zahn, Library Auditorium 

•8:15 
p.m. -Music Dept. Concert, Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra, Annenberg Auditorium 



TV Tonight 


7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 
8p.m. 16 Gimme A Break 22 Magnum PI 28 Two Marriages 
8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 
9p.m. 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 28 Lottery 
9:30p.m. 16 Buffalo Bill 
10p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn/ CBS Late Movie 
The Frisbees returning to Capistrano. 
28 ABC News Nightllne
How social animals work together. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Lure 5 Alanor 
Robert 9 Miss Kett 13 Item in 
the black 15 Kill 16 Abound 17 Nantes' 
river 18 "-Indigo" 19 Bancroft 20 Literary 
word abuser 23 Jose or Carlos 24 "The cat-
the well" 25 Wail 27 Quipped 30 Money 
32 Collective farm 33 Indian of Ariz. 
34 Proceed tediously 
37 Prefix for meter or gram 
38 Refuge 41 Pay dirt 42 Antennae 44 Sheep 45 Chemical 
compound 47-tonic 49 Expiated 50 Packed for 
shipping 52 Reverberate 53 Russell 
to friends 54 Ace clari­netist 60 Tag on 
sales item 62 Contestant 63 Lasso 64 Skid Row 
dweller 

65 Peon of yore 66 Piques 
67 Props 
68 Soaks flax 
69 Beach pest 
DOWN 1 -of Gilead 2 Ancient 
lyre 3 Egyptian goddess 4 Boring insect 5 Madison Ave. worker 
6 Chicago feature 7 Fashion 
designer 8 Kukla, Fran,­9 Gr. letter 10 Meatcut 
11 Dovetailing 
piece 12 Idiot 14 Nap-raising 
flower heads 
21 Cover 22 Chum 26 Mercatoria! 
item 27 Exhaust 28 Silkworm 29 Astrolo· 
ger'scon­
cern 30 Apportioned 31 Makesa 
choice 33 Chopped 35 Fr. river 36 Legal 
paper 
39 --heels (hopeless­ly) 
40 Familyof 

TV's Dan 43 Command 
to Fldo 46 Anchorage 48 Novel 49 Ger. excla· 
mation 50 Swim stroke 51 The Riveter 52 Medieval 
Eng. courts 
55 Fr. river 56 Fender damage 
57 Stay or 
58 -boy! 59 Political cartoonist 61 Distress signal 

Wedne~ay's Solution 

4/12/84 



Thursday, April12, 1984-page 12


orts 
Blowouts common as round one continues 
Scott Pleska of The Captain Made Us Do It 9 yesterday. The Captain .. .won, 21-17. Phil driws past a member of Lube job and the Big Wolf prrmides a mundup of yesterday's first Oummies during their game on Bookstore Court round m:tion at right. 
Six lettermen return 

Talent, depth evident in backfield 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

In spitt· of the talent Notre Dame hao; in its ba<:kfidd corps -talent which certainly deserves envy ­Irish ao;sistant head coach and run­ning back coa<:h Mal Moore speaks of spring hall with guarded op­timism and a reluctancy to make any verbal commitmcnts about his team. 
"We arc vt·ry fortunate to have the capablt-backs we do at Notre Dame," offers Moore. "They all have a lot of desire and need to maintain that attitude in order to improve." 
Among Moore's rank an(,! file arc four monogram winners in tht: tail­back slot and two in the fullback position. Heading tht·list ofveterans is junior-to-be Allt-n Pinkett. The 5­9, IB3-pound Pinkett led the Irish in rushing, receiving, and scoring in 
19B3, and finished 16th in the race for the llcisman Trophy. lie also set records with I B touchdowns and five consecutive mid-season I00­yard efforts lao;t season. Pinkett needs I,546 yards to become Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher. 
Pinkett hao; been viewing most of the action this spring from the sidelines. The coaching staff knows what he can do, so most ofthe spring <:horcs will f;,tll on sophomores-to-be 
Hiawatha Francisco ( 5-l0, 192-lbs. ), "We have to pick up from our Alonzo Jefferson ( 5-I I, 187-lbs.) Bowl victory and improve from that and Byron Abraham ( 5-l I, 197-lbs. ). point," explains Moore. "We're 
Francisco saw some action tor the using this time to give different Irish last season and compiled 194 looks to utilize our personnel. yards in 38 carries. Jefferson returns Everyone gets their chance and as the top Irish kickoff returner of everyone has done well __ .but that 'B3. He hauled in three catches for doesn't mean there isn't any room 4 7 yards at split end before making a for improvement." late season switch to tailback. Abraham saw action in four Irish With this strive-for-perfection at­
· contests, totaling 32 yards in 13 titude and the talent to back it up, carries. the Irish backfield promises to be an "During spring hall we con­explosive and exciting part of the 
centrate on the fundamentals." com­'84 offense. 
ments Moore. "We evaluate our losses and work with the younger players on skill and technique. I'm very happy at the way the team has 

'VanderVelden, Higgs-Coulthard
progres.o;cd thus far." The use ofa split backfield and in­creased use of the fullback wa'i a 

to represent U.S. in Leningrad
major factor in Notre Dame's 19-18 fencing, which is restricted to 
athletes under the age of 20 on Jan. I, 1984, will include the best young fencers from 65 different countries. 
Belles sweep four, 

extend streak to eight 
Irish ao;sistant coach Steve Ren­Liberty Bowl victory over Boston 

By MICHAEL]. CHMIEL 
college. The duo of seniors-to-be 
Sports Writer 
Chris Smith and Mark Brooks makes the fullback spot a solid strength for Although the Notre Dame fen­
the Irish offense. Both players arc 
cing team ended its season al­
powerful blockers as well as rugged 
ready with a third place finish in 
nmners. The 6-2, 231-pound starter the NCAA Championships, two 
la~t season, gained praise for his I04­Irish foilers will be fencing next 
yard effort in the Liberty Bowl. 
week in Leningrad, Russia, as 
Brooks (6-3, 228-Ibs.) played in II they will be representing Notre 
games and contributed 180 y:ards in 
Dame and the United States in the 
.iS carries with two touchdowns. 
1984Junior World Olympics. The Junior World Olympics in 
The Saint Mary's softball team cx­tcndt·d its winning streak to eight gamt·s with two doubleheader swn~ps in the pao;t two days. 
Yesterday, the Belles demolished Bt·thcl College, I 3-B and 16-4. Cathy l.og.o;don wao; tht" winning pitcher in the opener, as Mary Lynn Mulcahy led the offt·nse with four RIHs. 
In tht" nightt·ap, Annie Day won her st-cond game in two days, 16-4. Elaine Sues.o; had three RBis. Five otht·r Belles contributed two RBis a picct·, including Anne Trapp, who belted a home run. 
The most thrilling game of the four was a 2-I, extra-inning victory over Grat·e College on Tuesday. Grace took a 1·0 lead in the fifth in­
shaw, who finished 13th in the Eckert's single. The Belles tied the 
ning when Anita Barr scored on Sue 
Junior World Olympics six years score in the bottom half of the in­
ago, believes that the competi­ning when Katie Coonan scored on a 
tion in Leningrad will be very sanificc by Kris Paqtclleria In the eighth inning, Mulcahy doubled in Anne Trapp with the winning run. Day allowed only three hits, struck out five and walked none en route to the vktory. In Tuesday's nightcap, the Belles got.offto a 4-0 lead and never looked back, winning 9-2. Julie Keigher allowed only six hits and no walks for the victory. "This is the best all-around team I've ever coached at Saint Mary's," said Coach Scott Beisel. The Belles are now 14-2 on the season. 

By PHIL WOLF 
Sports Writer 

The first round of Bookstore Bas­
ketball XIII continued yesterday, the 
fourth day of action, as 80 teams 
took to the courts at Lyons, Stepan, 
and the Bookstore. 

"It was a beautiful day for 
Bookstore Basketball," Tournament 
Commissioner Jeff Blumh said last 
night, and, indeed, it was a very good 
day for some ofthe participants. 
Perhaps as a result of impatience 
from waiting four days to play, the 
teams participating in yesterday's 
games set·med to want to dispatch 
their opponents quickly. In 19 ofthc 
40 games played, the losing team 
scored fewer than I0 points, as the 
winners rolled to the required 21 
points. 

The most notable blowout of the day was White Lightning's 21-0 vic­tory over We Never Practiced Even Once. White Lightning shot an amazing 21-of-25, as not one of the players on the team missed more than one shot. Perhaps a little bit of practice would have helped We Never Practiced Even Once, as the team missed 24 shots en route to becoming the first shutout victim of Bookstore XIII and one of the few non-scoring participants in Bookstore history. 
The high scorer for White Light­ning wa'i Chris Beiter, who ac­counted for six of his team's points. Tht: high non-scorer for We Never Practiced Even Once was Pat Markey, who failed to connect on 10 attempts. 
Rivaling the performance of We Never Practiced Even Once was Wimps, which barely escaped the shutout on Mike Stephan's only bas­ket of the contest. Darth and the light Sabres were the 21-1 victors in that matchup. 
Led by Mike Renaud's 12-of-1 B shooting, Darth and the Light Sabres hit 21-of-33 shots as a team. The Wimps, meanwhile, were 1-for-16, 
led(?) by Scott Criminski's 0-for-6. 
Two teams were in the three­point club for the day yesterday. Rockit went 3-for-16 to lose to the hot-shooting ( 21-of-35) Windy City Action. hKitball player Joe: Johnson was 12-of-16 for Windy City Action, whi<:h also includes fmlthall players Mike: l.arkin ( 3-of-6) and Ricky Gray ( 4-of-7). Joe Dougherty was the: star non-scorer for Rockit, mis.o;ing six times in as many attempts. 
Chaotic Oscillations was the other three-point award winner, as Scratch Twice and the Three Itches took the game on 21-of-45 shooting. Don Cleary shot 6-of-9 for the win­ilc Jim Beckwith of the Chaoti<: Oscillations choked on five shots. 
Bookstore 

Five Screams From the l.oft lost by 17 to Your Freudian Slip Is Showing, ao; Roger Diegel shot a perfect B-of-H. Diegel's mark is the second-best per-· feet game in B(Kikstore history, second only to Kevin Griffith's I 1­of-1 I in Bookstore XII. 
Two other teams managed only four points in yesterday's games. The Macintosh and Four Other Had Apples fell to the Deattitudes, who were led byJohn )aurcgito's B-of-15 shooting. Four-of-32 shooting gave 90125 a loss at the hands of Pat Ewing and 'lbrec Other Guys That Can't Add. 
In the 21-5 category, Trucker and the Dookcrs fell to Over the limit, thanks to Marty Roddy's hot 7-of-9 hand. 
The Last Hurrah had more ofa lao;t wimper, a'i the team bowt~d out of the tournament to The Modern 
see BOOKSTORE, page 10 
tough. 

"You won't see it (the com­petition) better any place else," commented Renshaw. "A lot of the guys you see there, you will also see in Los Angeles (at the 1984 Olympic Games)." 
Notre Dame sophomore Mike VanderVelden and freshman Charles Higgs-Coulthard will be making this trip as the number one and the number two fencers on the U.S. foil team. Their spots were won in the U.S. junior Olympics and prior competition earlier this season. 
VanderVelden (32-8 on the season and 66-2B lifetime) took the gold at the li.S. Junior Olym­pics hdd in Portland, Ore., in February to capture the top spot. He also finished second in a field of 25 at the 19B4 Great Lakes Championships and 14th in a field of 30 at the 19B4 NCAA Championshiops. 
Higg.o;-Coulthard ( 43-6) captured the second spot with strong performances earlier in the year and at the Portland tournament. On March 21, he won a gold in the NCAA Cham­pionships and was crowned ao; the 1984 national champion in the foil. He also captured fourth place in Great Lakes competition. 
Marc Dejong, assistant foil coach for the Irish who fenced in the Junior World Olympics in 1981, notes that while the outing wiU be tough, the Irish representatives should do well. 
"Americans usually have a hard time overseas because they're not familiar and because tbe directors are not familiar with them," said Dejong. 
"As far ao; I can see, they (VanderVelden and lligg.o;­Coulthard) are far better prepared than I ever wao; and that's to their credit because they've been working really hard." 
''I'm looking for them to fence in at least three or four rounds and do well." 
Bringing pride to the l Jnitcd St;~.tes, the two Irish foilcrs will fence in this championship meet next week, April 19-20, in Leningrad. 








