
Record store -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 64 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1984 

Only Tyson's approval stands in way of new student general store 
'lbrCbi<rw:r/<llrls Md.ran 
.'ioplxmore Sheila McDaniel does herjob as a are mrrent/y being considered. For more informa­discjockey on the student-run radio station WW'I­tion, see the story, the second in a tbree-part series, AM. PlanS for converting the station to AM stereo below. 
Weidenbaum questions UN's right to regulate transnational enterprise 
By MARTIN RODGERS transnational enterprises " and the the distance from Washington to News Staff regulations themselves. These regu­South Bend." lations, Weidenbaum argued, were Weidenbaum also held a press 
The national equivalent of E.F. not based on such issues as health conference in which he entertained Hutton was on campus yesterday and environmental protection, but many questions concerning Presi­and attentive ears stopped and lis­rather were "politically aimed at­dent Reagan's newly unveiled flat tened. tempts to bring about the worldly tax plan. 
In the Notre Dame law School, redistribution ofwealth and power." He stated he was not a strong sup­Dr. Murray Weidenbaum, chairman He also emphasized that the role of porter of the plan, feeling it was of the president's Council of Eco­the U.N. as a regulator needs to be ~imilar to "the cart coming before nomic Advisers from 1981-82, rethought and perhaps the U.N. was the horse." delivered a lecture on "The United "running afoul" of its purpose. He To attempt to reconcile the Nations as a Regulator of Private En­also theorized it was a matter of budget deficits by tax reform Is terprise." "(foreign) aid vs. trade" with the lat­avoiding the primary problem of 
Weidenbaum, currently director ter being the route which should reducing federal spending, he said. ofThe Center for the study.of Ameri­steadfastly be supported by the U.S. Good budgeting offederal spending can Business, began his lecture by and its large multinationals. must be effected and carried out by stating he had come before a " group Weidenbaum said his lecture was "uniform distribution of dissatisfac­of lawyers to tell why we have too primarily educational, and was In­tion." much law " In the specific instance tended to bring about an awareness Furthermore, he stated the tax of " the United Nations and its spe­that the U.N. was attempting to do proposal removed incentives for In­cialized 'alphabet soup' agencies: more than just its stereotypic vestment and would lead to rising TAD,ILO, UNESCO ..." "peacekeeping" activities. unemployment and a lower gross 
One of the major topics of the The presentation was the final national product. lecture was the paper, authored by segment of the Thomas J. White He did, however, indicate the new his Center for the Study ofAmerican Center Lecture Series, a series bill was oniy a "first draft" of sorts Business, which disputed the right which, in the words of Director ofthe U.N. to create regulations on " Douglas Kmiec, effectively "bridged see LECTURE, page 6 
By BOB MUSSELMAN without going off campus. The fact News Staff that the bookstore Is an on-campus monopoly means students are 
The oniy thing now standing be­"forced to buy quality products that tween a proposed student store and they don't want and can't afford." Its implementation Is the approval of 
Browne said monopolies onFather David Tyson, vice president campus aren't necessarily bad, butfor Student Affairs. 
they do provide a "hindrance to one
That's the result of action taken of the primary aspects of a campus
yesterday by the Campus Life Coun­community -variety." He said the
cil, which unanimously passed a stu­dent government proposal to open a store is not a bookstore replace­
ment, "is oniy feasible if we don'tstudent-run general store. 
compete with the bookstore," and is 
Tyson's approval would allow the "not going to sell books in the store to open In LaFortune Student future." Center next semester. After the presentation, which in­
Student Senator Pat Browne made formed the council of various statis­the general-store proposal to the tics and cost estimates, several council. He said surveys conducted questions were asked by council by his committee and the Om­members about the proposal. Most budsman's office Indicated there is concerned the possibility ofsuccess enough demand for a store which and exact costs involved. will sell discounted and generic health and beauty aids and school Associate Vice President for supplies at a lower price than the Residence LifeJohn Goldrick was es­bookstore. pecially vocal during the question 
The store would not compete and answer period, expressing his with the bookstore, Browne said, own doubts as to whether the store but will offer Notre Dame students a will succeed. However, he did not chance to purchase "discounted, 
see CLC, page 7
second label, and generic" products 

EPA administrator resigns after restoration of morale 
Associated Press direction of EPA by his predecessor, Anne Burford. 
WASHINGTON -Wllliam RuckeJ­"Employee morale and com­shaus, administrator of the Environ­petence Is high," Ruckelshaus told mental Protection Agency, Reagan. submitted his resignation yesterday "First-rate presidential appointees to President Reagan, who accepted are In place," said Ruckelshaus. "A it. management system has been In­

Ruckelshaus said he is returning stalled that is functioning well and to private life with "both regret and all of the programs have generated a sense ofaccomplishment." momentum. 
"In short, the ship called EPA is 
He said that during his term of of­righted and Is now steering a steady fice, the second time he has held the course." job, he has succeeded In restoring The president, accepting the employee morale that had been shattered during the controversial see EPA, page 6 



WVFI-AM looks for ways to improve broadcast signal 
Tbe following is tbe second of a three-part series on WVFJ, tbe student-run radio station serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
By DAVID BROWN 
News Staff 
Representatives of the Notre 
Dame student-run radio station 
WVFI-AM and the admlnistatlon 
are currently considering ways In 
which to Improve the station's 
broadcast signal. 
The station has introduced 
several plans to the: administra­
tion In an attempt to become a 
major part of student life, said As­
sistant Director ofStudent ~ctlvl­
ties and former WSND-AM 
Adviser Paul Matwly. 
Father Francis Cafarelli, assis­tant vice-president for student af­fairs said, "The administration is already making a commlttment to WVFI and at this point the ad­ministration is open to a thor­ough discussion of the role and needs of the AM radio station facility." 
Matwiy was Involved In the plans either to convert WVFI-AM to a 300-watt FM station or to In­stall AM-stereo facilities. The main reason for Initiating these plans was that WVFI-AM was not as effective as It could be because most dorms could not and still cannot receive a clear signal from the station. 
This poor reception Is caused by two things, according to Mat­wiy. First, the carrier current sys­tem, a system used to send radio signals through the electrical outlets, Is deteriorating. This is because the system Is 20-30 years old, said Matwiy. 
Secondly, many dorms have been renovated since the found­ing of the radio station and the electrical wiring In these dorms 

A A 
WVFI Series 
• has drastically changed. These combined problems cause the reception problems throughout the campus. 
Matwiy said, "the reception problem is not Inherent to the system but is caused bv the deterioration of the system due to Its age.. Aside from the deterioration there Is no reason why the carrier current system could not be as good as any AM station picked up In town." 
To remedy these problems, Matwiy and the administration pursued the possibility of con­verting WVFI to an FM station. 
This began last year when a study was conducted to deter­mine the cost of a possible con­version. The estimate was $20,000. The administration went as far as applying to the FCC for a license to broadcast. 
This plan fell through, however, because a second study revealed the actual cost of con­verting the station would be closer to noo,ooo. This gap be­tween the planned budget and tne actual costs forced the ad­ministration to withdraw their request for a license in late Au­gust. 
Matwiy also said there wc:re "several other negatives in­volved" in pursuing the conver­sion. The major negative aspect of the proposition was the lack of student control. 
By definition, the license the administration would have ob­tained froin the FCC would have required them to maintain ul­timate control of the station rather than turning control ofthe station over to the students. 
The license would have forced the station to sell advertising dif­ferently than it does now. This would cause the station to 
see WVFI, page 3 


~ ·---~----~----~---------­
--------------------------------------------~-­The Observer Thursday, November 29, 1984-page 2 


In Brief 
TheMiss HolyCrossContest, scheduled for tonight from 8 to 10, was among the topics discussed at last night's SMC Programming Board meeting. Holy Cross Hall is also sponsoring a raftle for a trip to Chicago and dinners at local restaurants. The "Carnival ofCareers" is set for Dec. 4 in Angela Athletic Facility. The Annual Ouistmas Bazaar runs from Dec. 3-7 in the LeMans Hall lobby from 10a.m. to 5 pm. each day. Also, Marine ROTC is sponsor­ing a "Toys for Tots" collection. Contributions may be taken to the Midshipman's Office through Dec. 16. -The Observer 
Joseph P. Brennan, president of the 
Bituminous Coal Operators' Association, will discuss "New Direc­tions in Industrial Relations" during a speech at Notre Dame this afternoon at 4:15. The speech in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium is part ofthe Arthur F. and Mary J. O'Neil Speaking Series and is open to the public. A member of a coal mining family from Pottsville, Penn., Brennan graduated from the University of Notre Dame In 1957 and joined the staff of the United Mineworkers of America in Washing­ton, D.C., as assistant director in 1968. He was involved in UMW A efforts to promote the use of anthracite and bituminous coal in the United States and abroad. -The Observer 
"Lady,,a2l'3Vand~te spaniel, has been caged for seven years at a dog p~und, and officials in Fort Wright, Kentucky say she was never adopted or destroyed because she was held as evidence in a case that went nowhere. The dog was placed in the Kenton County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals shelter in 1977 when her owner was charged with animal cruelty, and it was kept there while the man's case was in the courts. Judge Douglas M. stephens of the Kenton County Circuit Court said Tues­day he will conduct a custody hearing for the dog even though some ofthe records are gone. "We can find him a nice home by Christmas, I'm sure. Unless there's an issue or element I'm not aware of, we can release the dog," Stephens said. -AP 
Hoping 10 curb dn.Jnken drivers during the holidays, some Muncie, Indiana tavern owners say they will elimi­nate happy hours, and the AAA-Hoosier Motor Club is holding a com­petition for the best non-alcohol beverage. The Delaware County licensed Beverage Association -in a gentleman's agreement ­decided Tuesday to eliminate happy hours for at least a month. The barkeeps said that starting Monday they would put an end to reduced price promotions for alcoholic drinks. About 40 people at­tended the meeting, and only one person disapproved of terminat­ing happy hours, but he, too, said he would go along with it. -AP 
Of Interest 
'JheAssociationOfCollegiate Entrepreneurs 
is looking for interested students to help organize an Entrepreneurial Club at Notre Dame. Those interested and willing to work should contact Chris McLean at 283-1078. -Tbe Observer 
The BeauxArts Ballwill ren.un to the Architecture Building tomoiTOW" night at 9. Performing will be the band "Cause for Passion" Due to the popularity of last year's Black and White all-night ball, only a limited nwnber of tickets will go on sale at the South DiningHall. Limited T-shirtswill also be available for $6. -Tbe Observer 


Weather 
A little wanner and partly sunny today with a high in the mid to upper 40s. In­creasing clouds and not too cold tonight with a lowin the low to mid 30s. Itwill becloudywith a 40 percent chance of rain tomorrow with 
highs in the mid 40s. -AP 
The Observer-
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year ( 120 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The .a.odated Press. All reproduction ..,.are reserved. 
Productton Consultant .................... Steve Design Editor ................................ Troy JUig Design Assistant ................. Caroline Belin Layout Staff........... Mark Weinholt, Kathy Typesetters.....Jennifer Bigott, Mary Ellen News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor..............................Jane Kravdk Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Cindy Boyle Viewpoint Layout .............. Byron Stevens Features Copy Editor ....... Marikris Dalum Features Layout..................... Sharon Houk ND Day Editor ................... Donna Gavigan SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design .. Suzanne LaCroix, Mary Carol 
Creadon Pbotograpber........................ Chris McLean 


Tighter control on guns needed before more senseless deaths occur 
The tragic shooting death last week of high school basketball star Ben Wilson in Chicago brought into focus once again the urgent need for gun control in the United States. 
Wilson, possibly the number one high school player in the country, and under recruitment by Illinois and DePaul, obviously had a promising college and pro career ahead of him. He was gunned down by high school students-1 5 and 16 years old. 
The thousands of others murdered in the country by handguns each year do not get the publicity Ben Wilson did. But their deaths are just as great an indication ofthe fact that one-half ofall murders in this country occur by handgun. 
Since 1963, Americans have killed more people with handguns than World War II did. That statistic seems unbelievable, but it shouldn't. After all, a handgun is so easy to purchase in this country that in many states, anyone can walk intoa store and buy one. The ease with which anyone can get a handgun-strictly meant for 
no other purpose than kil­on gun control, and bills in­ling human beings, explains troduced by Sen. Ted Ken­why there is a handgun sold nedy in the past have been every 13 seconds in this gone nowhere. President country. Reagan, himself a shooting 
Americans are arming victim, is an opponent of themselves like they still gun control. lived on the frontier, and Overseas, the U.S. murder were afraid of the wolves. rate is almost 10 times that Only now they're afraid of ofBritain, West Germany, or each other. But it's not Japan. Our murder rates strangers they should fear. leave the rest of the world You are six times more astounded, cynical, or ap­likely to be shot by a mem­palled. And it is amazing that ber ofyour family than an in­a nation so internally stable 
Oorl'f aflycmt shoof­
truder. is so violent. The gun laws in this if sYI'Je, your dau'31nfe,-; The Chicago suburbs of 
country are a mess of incon­sistent, unorganized local bill and laws. And a ban in one city won't work if the neighboring city doesn't also have a ban. That is why a nationwide handgun ban is such a necessity. And bans can work. In Massachusetts, a gun law giving an auto­matic one year jail term to anyone with an unlicensed gun dropped homocides by 55 percent. Think what outlawing handgun possession could do. 
Recent polls indicate 65 percent of the American public favor tighter gun laws. So why don't we have restrictions on handguns? 
The answer of course is the National Rifle Association-the nation's most powerful single interest group and the most effective lobbying organization in Washington. 
The NRA spends most of its' S30 million budget lob­bying against gun control laws as they are introduced in Congress. They target pro-gun control members of Congress at election time. Basically,they scare them into vetoing or dropping gun control bills. It proves to 
YOU CAN'T 

and no legitimate speed readmg course can promise that you'll finish novels faster than aspeeding bullet' But you ~ tncrease your readmg speed up to five ttmes without sacrificing comprehension. 
Our Breakthrough Rapid Reading pro­gram can help you read textbooks. mail. jOurnals. novels-anythmg faster & more efftctently If that sounds good to you. call us: 
c~-H

fj ~DOCATK>NA~ 
~ CENTER 
TEST PREPIO.RATlON SPECIALISTS SN::E 1938 


SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
<2 t~t~r~;~~N35 

INDtAN4POL!8 ... NO BLOOMINGTON In New~ State Stanley H Kaplan Educational Cenler Lid 
Tess Guarino 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Thursday 

what extent money can buy power, or members of Congress, in this country. What it comes down to is this: we will regulate drugs, toys, dogs, and T.V.'s, but not handguns. 
What about the NRA's slogan-."Gun's Don't Kill People, People Kill People?" Well, what they seem to be ignoring is the fact that people with guns are more likely to kill people than those armed with anything else. 
There are indications that Congress may even loosen 
handgun restrictions. No 
recent action has been taken 
Oak Park and Morton Grove 
have both enacted tough handgun laws, among the first of their kind. Oak Park passed their anti-handgun Jaw when a young lawyer from the suburb was shot by a client in a Chicago court­room last year. The judge in the divorce case being heard at the time was also killed. The lawyer's widow began a crusade to get guns banned in the suburb, and earlier this year got the law passed. 
The results of such bans have not been determined yet. But we can only go up from here. Our crime statis­tics are a disgrace, especially when compared to those abroad. 
Americans must not allow the self interests of a wealthy few dictate the way we live. Our individual freedom in this matter must yield before the public need for safety and sanity. And as long as we let the NRA decide our policy regarding gun control, Americans will continue to live with one ofthe world's worse mur­der rates. 


--------·-~----~~------~-----­
The Observer 


Record store to reopen with change in hours 
By BUD LUEPKE There were rumors the store's StaffReporter S6,572 loss last year could have prompted the closing, but Student 
The Student Activities Board Body Treasurer AI Novas said there Record Store in LaFortune will Is no deficit at this point in the reopen Friday after being closed for store's operation this year. more than a week, said Student Ac· Novas also said the Student Activi­tlvltles General Business Manager ties Board used the closing to con­Chuck VanRavenswaay. si<.ler possible changes. "We're 
The temporary closing hegan last thinking of changing the format, Wednesday when the store's full­making It so you can walk in and time employee, Judy Gorski, left the look around maybe," Novas said. record store for better employment. Ravenswaay said they were also 
looking for new suppliers and ways 
Ravenswaay said employees had to cut costs due to competition from to be found before there was a .the bookstore. "We're very con­reopening. "We are now hiring stu­strained," he said. "We can't raise dent workers," he said. record prices." 
The record store will be student Originally, the record store was run, and Ravenswaay also said new known as the ticket store. Only cut­hours, more convenient for students rate movie tickets, ACC tickets, and will be implemented. "We're trying bus trips were offered through it. It to have It opened from 12 to 2 p.m. was strictly a ticket outlet until a few on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday; years ago when It started selling 
so It wlll be open during lunch," he records and tapes. said. "And from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. on The store makes no profit. Novas Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday." said, "It Is still budgeted for zero dol­The store's hours had been 10 a.m. lars. It's not even a business to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. venture." 
Former intelligence worker arrested on spying charges 
A118oclated Pre~~~~ Koecher was arrested late Tues­
day as he and his wife Hana were 
NEW YORK-An Investigation that preparing to fly to Switzerland and led to the arrest of a former CIA em­begin a new life in Austria, the FBI ployee accused of spying for the said. They had sold their Manhattan Czechoslovakian Intelligence ser­home just hours before. Hana Koec­vice took more than two years and her, 40, was held as a material wit­Included an Interview in which he ness and authorities refused to say admitted spying, a federal prosecu­whether she would be charged. tor said In court yesterday. Koecher admitted his Involve­
Karl F. Koecher, 50, gave the ment with the Czech agency to FBI Czech Intelligence agency "virtually agents In an interview last Friday, any classified or other material, in­but was not immediately arrested, formation, assessments and CIA per­the prosecutor said, because "the sonnel Identifications" that he FBI believed It was In their interest ohtained, an FBI affidavit said. to string this thing along to develop 
U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani additional evidence." refused to give details of the lnvestl· Assistant U.S. Attorney Barry Boh­gadon, saying only that It took more rer told the magistrate he will ask than two years. He also refused to the couple be held without ball in­describe the seriousness ofthe Intel­definitely. He noted that the ligence leak. The CIA has declined to espionage charge against Koecher comment on the case. carries a maximum of life In prison 
Giuliani said Koecher worked for and said there Is a substantial risk the CIA for four years, not two years that the couple would flee if set free. as Initially reported. 
Giuliani said yesterday that after According to FBI court papers, working as a translator for the Koecher was recruited by the Czech agency In Washington from 1973 to Intelligence service in 1962, was 197'5, Koecher became a "contract trained In Czechoslovakia for two employee" for the CIA In New York years and then moved with his wife from 1975 to 1977. He would not to the United States In December discuss the type of work Koecher 1965. They eventually became performed In New York. naturalized U.S. citizens. 
The Observer 
Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following 
position: 
Assistant Production Managers 
Two positions available 
Responsible for: 
A. Inventory and supplies OR 
B. Equipment maintenance 
Salaried position 
No experience necessary 

Stop in and see Chris for an interview by 5 p.m. Tuesday 
The Obeerver 3rd Floor, LeFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN ussa 

Associated Press 
BRIDGETOWN, Barbados Calypso, the Caribbean music that combines a driving beat with catchy lyrics delivered rapid-fire by color­fully named singers, has gained In­creasing use as a political forum. 
"The calypsonian Is the political satirist extraordlnalre. In West In­dian life there's a strain of ribald ir­reverence. Calypso reflects this and It is frequently a mode of social or political criticism," said Gordon Lewis, a University of Puerto Rico professor and a leading Caribbean historian. 
"I write calypsos because I believe It's the strongest way people can express themselves. As far as my songs are concerned, you can love them or you can hate them, but you can't ignore them," said Tony "The Mighty Gabby" Carter, Barbados' controversial calypso star. 
In a region which prides Itself on adherence to democracy and freedoms, governments have shown sensitivity to the political calypso: 
-on Barbados, Carter has been censored by the government-owned Caribbean Broadcasting Corp. and criticized by Prime Minister Tom Adams. 
-on Grenada, survivors of the deposed leftist government scrapped plans for a calypso festival marking the fifth anniversary oftheir 1979 coup d'etat last March when foreign calypsonians were refused entry into the country. 
-on Dominica, the previous ad-
Thursday, November 29, 1984 -page 3 


APFhotn 

Karl Koed:Jer, center, a former a4 contract em­delivering national security information to the ployee, is escorted .[ron the agency's headquarters Czecbslovakian intelligence service. See thestoryat 
in New York following his arrest on charges of lower left for more details. 



Calypso becoming political forum 
ministration banned all calypsos for 
two years in 1978-79. In 1983 the 
state radio banned a song that 
referred to the current Eugenia 
Charles government as "Mafia La" 
and another song criticizing govern­
ment policies and religious leaders. 
-on Jamaica, the indigenous Jamaican music, reggae, similar to calypso but with more rock 'n' roll Influence, often drew censorship during the tumultuous late 1970s. 
Calypso, reflecting roots In both Africa and Europe, originated on Trinidad, where the region's major pre-Lenten carnival dates to the 19th century. The annual highlight of Trinidad's carnival has been the calypso competition, during which the island's starS unveil their latest songs. 
The pollticlzation of calypso goes back to anti-colonial sentiment such as expressed In the 1950s by Trinidad's "Attila the Hun," accor­ding to Lewis, continuing through the current star "The Mighty Spar­row," who summarized the social problems of oil-producing Trinidad's rapid growth In "Capitalism Gone Mad." 
One of the region's most popular calypsos is The Mighty Gabby's "Boots." The lyrics criticize Adams' decisions to build up Barbados' tiny Defense Force and send Barbadian soldiers to St. Vincent and St. Lucia to quell unrest on those islands. 
"Boots" asks: "Can we afford to feed an army, while so many children naked and hungry? Can we afford to remain passive, while ~hat soldier army grow so massive? Well, don't tell me, tell Tommy." 

Soon after Its June 1983 debut, the lyrics of"Boots" were banned on the state-owned CBC. 
"We banned the words, not the whole version. We felt the words would hold up members of the defense force to contempt and ridicule," explained Ronnie Hughes, CBC chairman. 
The Independent Voice of Bar­bados also banned play of the lyrics because they were considered "In poor taste," said Julian Rogers. 
Adams, In a 1983 parliamentary debate In which he denied that the government directed banning of calypsos, said calypsonians shouldn't take themselves too seriously and shouldn't hurt other people with songs full of "spite and hate." 
"Boots," with Its anti-military message, be\:ame a regionwlde hit following the Oct. 25, 1983, U.S.-led Invasion ofGrenada. 


WVFI 
continuedfrom page I 
depend on the administration for 
more funding than It already 
receives. It would Increase so much, 
in fact, that the budget would have 
to be three times what It Is now. 
AM Stereo is now being looked at as an alternative. Matwly began this process soon after the FM conver­sion failure by making the necessary arrangements with Motorola and two other corporations for the loan of S30,000 worth of equipment to put together an "experimental" AM Stereo broadcast facility. This would also Include the revamping of the carrier current system. 
Having been to many demonstra­tions Matwly has concluded if In­stalled properly AM Stereo could be almost as good as FM Stereo. 
This alternative would also allow for continued student control. As­suming the experimental AM Stereo Improves the listening quality of the station and It Is possible to overlde any problems with the carrier cur­rent system, It will be recomended to the administration to convert the entire campus to AM Stereo. 
Continued student dedication to the station Is also a major factor In Improving the station. "The adminis­tration is not going to pour money down the drain," said Matwly. 
If the students, both listeners and station members, show they are In­terested in the station and wish to improve it the chances the adminis­tration will further support them will increase, he added. 

The Observer Thursday, November 29, 1984-page 4 



Sen. Robert Dole succeeds Baker as Senate majority leader 
Associated Press Indiana -were eliminated one by seek re-election to the Senate. this six-foot Dole retorted: "I'll bring Jake Garn of Utah, 28-25, for the the one in the first three rounds. year, and told a jammed news con­more height." chairmanship of the Republican 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Robert The outcome also touched off a ference he would work his hardest Dole, who described himself as "a Conference. And John Heinz of Dole, wisecracking chairman of the chain reaction among key Senate to shepherd President Reagan's little euphoric, a little high," was the Pennsylvania defeated Malcom Wal­powerful Senate Finance Committee committee chairmanships, catapult­second-term initiatives through the best known nationally in the field of lop of Wyoming for the chairman­and a likely 1988 presidential ing Bob Packwood, a frequent ad­GOP-controlled chamber. five candidates. He was President ship ofthe GOP senatorial Campaign aspirant, defeated four rivals yester­ministration critic, into the "Deficit reduction is at the top of Ford's 1976 vice presidential Committee. day in the hotly contested battle to chairmanship of the Finance Com­everyone's agenda," Dole declared. runinng mate and unsuccessfully Sen. Strom Thurmond of South succeed Howard Baker Jr. as Senate mittee. As leader, Dole is banned by He added he shared the president's sought his party's presidential Carolina was re-elected unani­majority leader. Senate rules from heading any view that a tax increase would be "a nomination in 1980. He is married mously as Senate president pro 
panels. matter oflast resort." to Transportation Secretary tempore and William Armstrong of 
The 61-year-old Kansas Republi­Lugar will become chairman of Elizabeth Dole. Colorado was elected without oppo­can was elected 28-25 over his the Foreign Relations Committee, However, quipping his way Hard-driving and with a cutting sition as chairman of the Republican closest competitor, Ted Stevens of while arch-conservativeJesse Helms through his first news conference as wit -Democrats unflattering dubbed Policy Committee. Alaska, on the fourth secret ballot In of North Carolina will stay on as leader, Dole said he hadn't thought him Ford's "hatchet man" in the Overall, the new Senate leader­a caucus ofall 53 GOP senators who chairman of the Senate Agriculture much about other agenda items. 1976 campaign -Dole presents a ship team is made up of more politi­will serve in the upcoming 99th Committee, both senators con­''I'm going to find out first what you much different, higher-profile lead­cal moderates than the current one. Congress. firmed following the four-hour, do as leader," he said. ership figure than Baker, known for Baker -who has presidential ambi­
Three other contenders -James closed-door caucus. Asked ifhe would bring more dis­his calm caution and for his ability to tions of his own for 1988 -told McClure ofIdaho, Pete Domenici of A beaming Dole emerged from cipline to the Senate than had the force compromises by soothing reporters: "I can't think of a better New Mexico and Richard Lugar of the meeting with Baker, who did not easy-going, diminutive Baker, the ruiDed Senate egos. management team and I can't think 
But the two men are both middle of a better man to lead it than Bob ofthe road in the GOP political spec­Dole." trum, suggesting that Dole's election Democrats will pick their leaders will not result in an ideological shift next week. Senate Minority Leader in the chamber that Republicans Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia has regained from Democrats in 1980 no opposition. and held onto in the elections earlier Yesterday's vote, taken in the this month. ornate Old Senate Chamber, where 
, 
Dole, who won't actually take the Senate met in the 19th Century, command until the 99th Congress climaxed a month of intensive, convenes on Jan. 3, has consistently heavy lobbying by all five candi­supported Reagan's programs as dates. chairman of the Senate Finance For the first three ballots, no can­r Committee. However, the commit­didate drew the required 27 votes tee's next chairman, Packwood, has needed for election. On the first bal­
! 
~ been less ofa cheerleader for the ad­lot, Dole drew only 14 votes. ministration, and this could become Stevens, the current .GOP whip, a problem for its tax-overhaul was second with 12 votes and Lugar, proposals. current chairman of the Senatorial 
Dole said he would meet soon Ca!llpaign Committee, third with 
with Packwood to determine when 10. hearings will be held on that plan. Domenici, chairman of the In other GOP leadership contests Budget Committee, had nine votes
f yesterday, Alan Simpson of and McClure, chairman of the En­Wyoming was elected to the No. 2 ergy Committee, had eight votes. position of majority whip, a job now McClure, the low man, dropped out. held by Stevens. Simpson defeated Results of the second ballot: Dole, 
Sen. Robert Dole UX1S electedmajority leader of the 
Slade Gorton of Washington, 31-22. 17; Stevens, 14; Lugar, I 2; Domenici,
Senate yesterday, repladng the retiring Howard 
John Chafee of Rhode Island beat 10. 
Iiv e concert 
No J.D. required 

ALUMNI SENIOR BAR 
9PM-3AM 

from san francis.co 
~ 
CONCERT 9:30PM

r 8 FT. DANCE VIDEO SCREEN 
' 
' 

~ 
The Observer Thursday, November 29, 1984-page 5 
c: • • • • • • 
• 
Notre Dame /SaintMaryS Theatre presents the 

American Premiere 

Frederick Reyno(cfs 
Novem6er 30 Decem6er i-'6-' ~ 8 
8:oop.m. 0-'Laughfin Audltorium 
not'r~ dame:Lsai~t'~r'y-'s 
1 
~ 
1

commun-.:ty -r2·~o 
, 
1 

r• I p p p p p I ..,• 


The Observer Thursday, November 29, 1984-page 6 
t Arttfical heart recipient William Schroeder is kissed byhis wifeMargaret. Other family members, 
' ~ .frrln left, Terry, Melvin and O:Jeryllend their sup­
, 
r 
Heart recipient in excellent spirits 
Allan Lansing, who assisted at Sun­Tests ofSchroeder's kidneys were day's surgery. still slightly abnormal but were 
LOUISVIllE, Ky. · An "alert and While Schroeder was being beginning to move back toward nor­cooperative" William Schroeder weighed, an uncomfortable process mal values, Lansing said. joked with his nurses yesterday and that required him to roll to one side Schroeder has gained 14 pounds ate his first solid food since receiv­in bed so a scale could be slid since surgery, when he weighed 202 ing a mechanical heart · warm por· beneath him, he said, "I'm going to pounds, Lansing said. The weight ridge fed to him by his wife. remember the names of everybody gain is caused by fluid build-up, Lan­
Doctors said the 52-year-old in here, starting with the big guy," sing said, which was being corrected retired quality assurance specialist meaning his surgeon, Dr. William with drugs that would increase the continued making an excellent DeVries, a former college basketball rate at which Schroeder's kidneys recovery and they expected to have player. excrete fluid. him sitting up in bed later yesterday. Schroeder's "positive mental atti­The Jarvik-7 artificial heart was 
Schroeder explained to his nurses tude is a very important factor and a beating smoothly at 70 beats per how to make the ideal glass of very strong factor in his favor as far minute. "The progress report con­lemonade and told them that as recovery is concerned," said Lan· tinues to be excellent," Lansing said. "Ronald Reagan should be so lucky sing. "He is alert and cooperative." With the help of his wife, Mar­as to have to go through this," an ap­Lansing reported that Schroeder garet, Schroeder ate a breakfast of parent reference to the assassination had told his nurses, ''You are doing a apple and grape juice, warm por­attempt upon the president, said Dr. super job." ridge, milk and chocolate milk, 
The resignation will take effect Jan. 5, 1985. 

EPA Lecture
Ruckelshaus was the first chief of the EPA, serving as administrator
continuedfrom page 1 continuedfrom page 1 
from 1970 to 1973. He moved from Ruckelshaus resignation "with great there to theJustice Department, ser­and revision was inevitable. regret," told him in a letter that he ving as deputy attorney general Weidenbaum also indicated at the has "justified fully the faith which I before resigning in October 1973 press conference there have been and so many Americans have in you. rather than follow President Richard "four big tax reforms in five years" 
"You have made absolutely clear Nixon's order to fire Watergate spe­and this has had a "destabilizing" ef­our commitment to wise steward­cial prosecutor Archibald Cox. fect. ship of the environment," Reagan He also forecasted that 1985 will said. He was a senior vice president of not be as good a year as 1984. This 
"In doing so, you have established Weyerhaueuser Co., a Seattle-based year should show at least 7 percent the firm foundations on which your forest products company, in May real growth, whereas he estimated successor can continue to build -1983 when Reagan tapped him to the 1985 growth would only be ap­and in which Americans can have succeed Burford as chief of the em­proximately 3 percent. complete confidence." battled EPA. Weidenbaum is widely 
Reagan said in his letter that he Even the administration's shar­recognized for his work in analyzing chose Ruckelshaus to take over once pest environmental critics have had governmental regulation ofbusiness again at EPA during a period of tur­praise for the job done by Ruckel­and has written several books on moil inside the agency because of a shaus in restoring morale at the economic policy. In addition, he has "reputation for leadership, thought­agency. But many have been upset at written several articles for Fortune, fulness and personal integrity ... the administration's failure to take Tbe Wall Street journal and the based on a record of outstanding action to control acid rain. Christian Science Monitor. performance in every job you have held." 
The president said be knew at the time that Ruckelshaus' decision to return to Washington "was very dif­
r 
' 
............................._...........,..
r ficult, since it involved an extraordi­nary personal sacrifice in putting aside your career in the private sec­
is looking for on 
tor and moving, with your family,
f across the continent. 
"I knew you did what you have 


Assistant 
consistently done: you looked first 
and foremost toward the public in· 
terest." 
Ruckelshaus told Reagan that he is 

Systems Manager
convinced "that properly led, the dedicated people of EPA will con­tinue to serve well your administra­tion and this country." 
If you ore interested in this 
And he assured the president that in spite of his decision to return to 

paid position, bring o resume 
private life, "you can call on me to help any time, should the need to the Observer offices on the arise." 
There was no immediate word 

3rd floor of LaFortune and fill 
from the White House as to who might be under consideration to 

out on application.
replace Ruckelshaus as the nation's environmental chief. 


Treasury Dept. discourages amnesty on delinquent taxes 
Associated Press tax gap, the Internal Revenue Ser­vice's 1981 estimate of what 
WASHINGTON -The Treasury cheaters cost the government each Department claims its plan for year in lost revenue. revamping the federal tax system Primarily, the report said, the de­will do much to recover the S90.5 partment's proposal to restrict billion a year lost to cheaters, but the itemized deductions would cut the agency flatly rejects temporary am· number of taxpayers who itemize nesty as an incentive for delinquent and, in the process, the number who taxpayers to settle their accounts. cheat on their deductions. 
"Amnesties can only reinforce the growing Impression that the tax sys­The IRS estimated that it loses tem is unfair and encourages tax­S52.2 billion a year because people payer non-compliance," the fail to report all their income from Treasury said this week in a legal sources; failure to file any voluminous report to President return costs S2.9 billion. Another Reagan on ideas for overhauling the $6.3 billion is lost to overstated busi· income tax. ness expenses and S6.6 billion to 
Several states' recent success with exaggerated personal deductions, amnesty has prompted members of exemptions and adjustments. Congress to suggest a similar pro­Failure of employers and individ­gram at the federal level. uals to submit what is owed costs an­
In general, those who had failed to other $6.8 billion. Corporate file a return or had cheated on their cheating boosts the tax gap by S6.2 taxes would be given a brief time to billion. pay up without the government im· Unreported income from illegal posing a penalty on past-due taxes or drugs, gambling and prostitution threatening criminal prosecution. In deprives the federal government of return, advocates say, the govern­about S9 billion a year, but the Trea­ment would get a substantial sury report said that going after that amount of revenue that otherwise money is essentially hopeless. might be lost. 
The Treasury report concluded In addition, no amount of "tax that amnesty is not worth the risk. reform" will wipe out ail cheating, 
Even without amnesty, the agency especially in such "off·the·books" said, its sweeping overhaul plan will activities as bartering and small busi­make a big dent in the S90.5 billion nesses that deal primarily in cash. 
Show ND or SMC student orstaffID and get a 10% discount 
Christmas Open House on Sat.,Dec. 1 from 9am-6pm and Sun., Dec. 2 from 10am-5pm 

18001 State Road 23 
•

Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend. Indiana 48637 (219) 277-2870 
~ 

This Weekend 

The Knights ofColumbus present 



M*A*S*H 

FRIDAY &SATURDAY 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 
EngineeringAud. $1.00 
Finals looking Fuzzy? 

Call today for a complete examination and 20• OFF any pair ofglasses with your student offaculty J.D. card. 
• 
Large selection of fashion frames 

• 
All types of contact lenses 



N 

• 
Prescriptions filled 

• 
Dr; Ronald L. Snyder 

• 
Dr. Patrick Albert 


Just north of McDonald's on Ironwood. 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 


-------------------~---~ -~ 
The Observer Thursday, November 29, 1984-page 7 

Windy storm dumps snow on western U.S. 
A.'ISOclatcd Press 
A windy storm piled snowdrifts up to two feet high yesterday in Utah, avalanches closed an isolated Idaho highway, snow closed schools in Idaho and Washington, and scores of elk hunters were stranded by snow and downed trees in Oregon. 
Since Tuesday morning, the storm had dumped 12 to 21 inches ofsnow on Nevada's northern mountains. 
High wind whistled through parts of the northern Rockies with gusts up to 80 mph in Wyoming and Colorado, one day after 93-mph gusts lashed part of the Oregon coa.o;t. 
By midday, snow extended from western Montana across the moun­tains of Colorado and from eastern Idaho through northern Utah. Rain extended from Wa.o;hington across northern California, changing to snow In the mountains. 
On Tuesday, the storm had dumped up to 16 inches of snow in the Northwest, knocked out power to 3c;,ooo homes, closed highways and shaken San Francisco skyscrapers. Three people died Tuesday in traffic accidents that 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 

• 

A1TENTION JUNIORS! 
• 
• The Morris Inn Lottery for Junior Parents' •
• Weekend will be held on Thursday, Nov. 29:
•
• in the Rathskellar at 3:30pm. All those • • interested should come! • 
*****~**************************** 
! Fly To New York for Christmas,# : with the Long Island Club. :
* * 
: $182 Round Trip # 
* South Bend to LaGuardia * : leave Dec. 19, 1984 ~ * after last final exam * 
! CALL PETE LACHES at 2453 : : or PAUL CIFARELLI at 1762 !* for Info &reservations * : SEATS ARE LIMITED ! 
********************************** 
$****************************************************: 
•t S.A.B.N.D. proudly presents ,. : ~ the RE-opening of ~ 
i THE RECORD STORE ! 



i: I: 
FRIDAl', NOV. 30 
: --·plac:e-1101: t1oor LaF-
I 
----I 
Mon, Wed, Frl : 12:0(}-2:00 :i Mon, Tuea,Thurs: 6:00-8:00 : 
:*********************************: 
were blamed on icy roads and one 
died when wind blew down a tree. 
A winter storm warning was in et~ 
feet yesterday for central and eas­
tern Idaho. Travelers' advisories 
warning of snow and strong wind 
extended over much of the 
remainder of Idaho, northwestern j 
Montana, northeastern Oregon, the 
western mountains of Washington 
and Oregon, western Utah and the 
mountains of Colorado. 
Schools were closed yesterday in 
several districts in Idaho and a num­
ber of districts in eastern Washing· 
ton closed or delayed classes. 
Wind gusted to 40 mph and more 
at Salt Lake City and at the top ofthe 
Snowbird Ski Resort, and threw 
snow into drifts two feet high in the 
western Salt Lake Valley, the wea­
ther service said. 
On Tuesday, 10 inches of snow 
fell in 24 hours at Meacham in north­
east Oregon. Up to 16 inches was re­
ported in the Oregon and 
Washington Cascades, and state 
police in Oregon measured 13 
inches of new snow by early yester­
day at Mount Bachelor. A foot of 
snow fell on California's Mount 
Shasta. 

***************** 
: M /AMI JEWBRY : 
: J906Miami 8. : 
: TOPPRICE ~ 
: RINGS*DIAMONDS ::f GOLD*SILVER :f '?' WATCHES '?'
,-il • 
: Buy -Sell -Exchange : 
-iC OPEN MONDAY· SATURDAY 9 • 6 -iC 
~ 289-6440 : 
*****•*********** 

Ski instructor john Seymour scampers through States, bas been experlendng severe weather since the snow in Steamboat Springs, Colorado. Tuesday. More about the severe winter weather in Colorado, along with the rest ofthe Western United the story at left. 




Ball State professor says it is 'likely' he killed wife in alcoholic blackout 
As8odated Press 
LONDON · Ball State University professor jerry L. Kasparek said in court yesterday it was "likely" he beat and strangled his wife to death while he was suffering a blackout as­sociated with drunkenness. 
On the fifth day ofhis murder trial at London's Old Bailey criminal court, the 45-year-old professor of foreign languages was asked by the prosecution if he believed he in­flicted the injuries that killed his wife, Carol Ann. 
"I realize that is likely," Kasparek testified in a deep, composed voice. "But I have the hardest time possible accepting it." 
Kasparek, the first witness called by the defense, told the jury of his wife's and his own alcoholic prob­lems. He said he suffered amnesia after taking alcohol on up to I 5 oc­casions in the three years before his wife was found dead jan. 26 in their apartment in London's Paddington district. 
The lanky, bespectacled professor brought his 42-year-old wife and two daughters to London in the fall of 1983 to run a series ofcourses for Ball State students. 
He pleaded innocent to the mur­der charge, telling police he believed his wife was mugged on the night before she was found dead and 
had  taken  an  overdose  of  anti­ 
depressant pills while drunk.  
Dr.  G.K.  Shaw,  a  senior  pys·  
chiatrist  at  Bexley Hospital  near  

London, claimed Kasparek was suf­
0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyr great In virtue and rich In miracles near kinsman of Jesus Christ. Faithful In­tercessor of all who Invoke your special patronage In time of need. To you have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me In my pre­sent and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be Invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hall Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. Publications must be promis­ed. Pray for us and all who In­voke your old ·Amen 
Th1s novena has never been known lo 1011 THANK YOU ST JUDE 
fering from alcoholic amnesia, a con­
dition where a person, after drinking 
heavily, can turn violent but later 
not remember anything. 
It is an ailment where 
"forgetfulness is complete" and 
sometimes is accompanied by 
"irrevelant, irrational kind of behav­
ior," testified Shaw, a defense wit· 
ness. 

He said he interviewed Kasparek three times and carried out electro· encephalogram tests to trace changes in electric potential in Kasparek's brain while he was intox­icated. 
He concluded that Kasparek suf­fered a blackout after drinking heavily on the night on jan. 25. 
"I found it entirely possible," he said. 
Kasparek "had all the characteris­
tics of alcoholic blackout ...1 think 
the evidence is that he would have 
less ability to control his actions in 
that state," said Shaw, who is ex­
pected to be cross-examined today 
by the prosecution. 
Kasparek, who broke into tears 
twice while giving testimony, was 
asked by prosecutor Michael 
Worsley if he could be "taking ref­
uge in pretended loss of memory." 
"I am definitely not," he said. 
He said he had no recollection of ever striking his wife and, though he racked his brain, he had only vague "indirect memories" of events on the night before she was found dead. 
"I tried (to remember) for months upon months because I was so confident I hadn't done anyth­ing...and I can't recall, even with maximum effort," he said. 
Kasparek said he and his wife began the evening of jan. 25 drink­
ing whiskey and wine. Later, after 
running an errand at the London 
House Hotel, where he was teaching 
50 students from Ball State Univer· 
sity, he stopped at the Prince Ed­
ward pub and had two pints ofbeer. 
After returning home, his wife, who he said suffered from deep de­pression, alcoholism and "periods of violent rage," accused him ofhiding the whiskey and went into their bedroom. He returned to the pub alone, an event he said was "exceptionally unusual," had an­other pint and arrived home late, he said. 
His next vivid recollection, he said, was "waking up the next mor­ning," finding his wife's body cold and her face bruised and fearing she had taken an overdose ofpills he saw on a bureau beside their bed. 
Kasparek said his telephone was not plugged in, so he ran two blocks to the London House Hotel to call pollee. 
As he ran, he began to remember vaguely some events of the night before, he said. He recalled his wife leaving the apartment to buy alcohol and later coming back and saying she was hurt. 
"I recall her saying about a hand 
beingput over her face," he testified. 
Kasparek said he la.o;t suffered a blackout six days before her death. He also recalled an earlier, "rather frightening experience" after he drank heavily at a party in Muncie. 
He said he was supposed to drive 20 miles north to hL'i home but was found in his car the next morning parked in a driveway 20 miles west of the party. He was cited for drunken driving, he said. 
The trial continues today. 

CLC 
continuedfrom page 1 
spoil the proposal's unanimous ap­proval. 
"My vote was yes because I was persuaded it's worth the chance," he said, adding he was concerned the store might ultimately be in compe­tition with the bookstore. 
In other action: The Campus Life Council unanimously endorsed the "I'm Driving aub," which has received "positive feedback" since its pas5a3e by the Student Senate, ac­cording to Student Body President Rob Bertino. He said local busl· nesses which provide liquor will be approached this weekend about joining the program. 
The "I'm Driving Club" would al­low students refrainingfrom alcohol to receive free refreshments from local businesses at night. 
The CLC is a committee of nine students, five rectors, two profes­sors and an administrator. Tyson serves as a non-voting member of the committee. 
Resolutions passed by the CLC go to Tyson, who has seven days to make a decision. The CLC can appeal the decision to Provost Timothy 
O'Me:ara and  again  to  Father  
Theodore  Hesburp,  University  
president.  




View~_o_i_n_t___~~~~~Th~ursd~a~y,~No~ve~mb~er~29~,1~98~4~-p~age~S 
U. S. space program lacks goals and purpose 
"Tbere is a fifth dimension beyond that which is known to man. It is a dimension as vast as space and as timeless as infinity. It ts the middle ground between light and shadow, between science and superstition, and it lies between the pit ofman'sfears and the summit ofhis knowledge." 
The late Rod Sterling wrote the preceding to describe the Twilight Zone, but as a result of approximately two decades of pioneering work, it applies equally as well to man's newest frontier -outer space. As the space 
John Perez 
just wondering 

shuttle Discovery's recent rescue of two wayward satellites demonstrated, we have reached a stage oftechnological achievement where both launching and recovering large and complex objects in space are almost routine. Compare the media blitz surrounding the early shuttle missions with the com­paratively tepid coverage of late. Stories of NASA's derring-do are practically passe.. People likeJoseph Allen, Dale Gardner, David Walker, Anna Fisher and Frederick Hauck· the latest shuttle crew -do not come close to re­ceiving anywhere near the publicity that NASA's first astronauts did. It seems that the era of the Right Stuff has ended. In the near future, a school teacher and even a congress­man will visit the previously elite neighbor­hood ofEarth's orbit. 
What lies ahead in America's quest to expand, literally, its horizons? President Reagan wants to launch a permanent space station by 1992. Furthermore, he wants to have a "Star Wars" complex of orbiting anti· missile platforms to defend the United States from a nuclear ICBM attack. Last August he announced a new long-term space strategy calling for the private commercialization of space, a return to the moon and even an ex­ploratory mission to Mars. ­
How much will all this cost? Who will pay for it? Do we need any of it? These questions and many more will take center stage when Congress reconvenes in January. The Pent­agon, scientific groups, aerospace industry and many other interested parties will each try to get a word in edgewise. The heart of the problem is a lack of clear direction and pur­pose behind the U.S. space effort. As astronomer Carl Sagan commented, "We do not have a space program ifone assumes that a program has goals and purposes." 
The newest, most immediate space ob­jective is the Strategic Space Defense Initia­tive-the aforementioned Star Wars system. It 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
supposedly would destroy nuclear ICBM's, using laser or particle beam cannons, within an instant of their launch. The result would hopefully make long range missiles obsolete. A lofty goal to be sure, and it carries an equally lofty pric~ tag -$26 billion. Almost $2.5 bil­lion has already been appropriated. 
Another major space project in the works is the constrUction ofa permanent space station in Earth's orbit. After the U.S. Skylab missions, the Soviets logged over 88,000 hours in space aboard their Saylut platform. Fearing a Soviet monopoly on prolonged orbital activity, we are quickly gearing up for a massive (read ex­pensive) catchup effort. What benefits will we reap from this costly endeavor? Scientists say we will have new communications facilities, be able to produce new super-pure drugs and metal alloys, possess a launch pad for deep space exploration, among other benefits. The question that arises from this, however, is whether we need all this technologically so­phisticated gobbledygook. 
When asked about the necessity of "Star Wars" and the space station, a NASA official said not to worry, as "its ultimate use will evolve." Translation: "We don't know, but it'll look good and get all we scientists some fame and some big grant bucks." Everyone has an explanation of the what, but they fall flat trying to confront the why_ 
Conflicts notwithstanding, our continued exploration of space has its numerous benefits, vague as they may seem, that tran­scend the military, industrial or scientific. Space exploration is a standard bearer of na­tional pride and might, and current and past administrations have used this rod to stir the drink ofpublic sentiment. Unfortunately, this sense of pride and accomplishment can turn to narcissism or even recklessness. 
We must not let the heady thrill ofextrater­restrial accomplishment blind us to the more mundane problems on Earth. We enjoy per­haps the highest standard of living in the world, yet significant numbers ofour children go to bed hungry each night. Masses are out of work. Diseases formerly regarded as erad­icated have returned to haunt us, and new maladies appear without warning to belittle our medical pro~essions. Exploration for the sake of exploration itself is meaningless. It is only when these quests are carried out in the context of mediating our present ills and pre­venting future ones that they acquire meaning. One can look to the heavens for aid, but the reasons behind our problems are rooted firmly on Earth. We need to seek out new worlds, but our goals must serve the world we already know -that world upon which we all live. 
john Perez is a junioraccounting majorat Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
(219) 239-5303 

"It's futile and senseless and even hypocriticalfor we who call ourselves Notre Dame to discuss justice, mercy and love . .. if we are not constantly asking ourselves ifwe are living those concepts." 
ProfessorJohn Fitzgerald 1983. 
The dignity and rights of workers has become a major theme to Church leaders in recent years. Pope Paul VI addressed the sub­ject in hisPopulorum Progressio, Pope John­Paul II did the same in his Laborem Exercens, 
John Neblo 

outside, looking in 
and now the U.S.Catholic Bishops have taken up the banner in their Pastoral Letter on the 
U.S Economy. 

Closer to home, the University has spoken on behalf of the worker through the efforts of student organizations like CILA and the influ­ence of University leaders like Father Hes­burgh. Unfortunately, while the University has been speaking on behalf of the worker, it has often acted quite differently. In recent years the University has taken actions wholly incon­sistent with its position as an influential role model in the fight for worker's rights. 
On Nov. 22 oflast year, two pantry workers and three managers were fired from the North Dining Hall for alledgedly extorting money from another worker. The pantry workers were accused of the actual extortion while the managers were fired because the adminis­tration believed they knew of the extortion and did nothing to pn:vent it. ' The firings took place despite the fact that William Hendl, a University security inves­tigator assigned to the case, said that he had found "no evidence of any wrongdoing" on the part of the pantry workers and that "security was not involved at all" in investigat­ing the role of the three managers. Further­more, all three managers claim they were denied the chance to defend themselves before Food Service Director William Hickey. Even the victim of the alleged extortion, Bar­bara Davis, maintains that the managers had no knowledge ofthe incident. The results ofa second investigation by the personnel depart­ment were never made public. 
In response to the circumstances surround­ing the firings, CILA organizeda picket in front of the North Dining Hall on May 1 oflast year 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief_ Bob Vonderheide Manag1ng Edttor _ _Mark Worscheh News Editor _ _ ___ Sarah Hamilton News Editor _ _____ . _Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor _ Anne Monastyrsk1 Sports Edttor... _. _. __ ... Michael Sullivan Vtewpo1nt Editor . . . ____ Dave Grote Features Editor _ ____ . Mary Healy Photo Edttor. _ _Pete Laches 
to demonstrate its support for the fired 
workers and wrote to Father Hesburgh asking 
for a reexamination of the incident. Father 
Hesburgh responded with a letter to CILA 
members stating that he had investigated the 
matter and was convinced "that justice was 
done." 
With all due respect to Father Hesburgh 
and regardless ofthe guilt or innocence ofthe 
parties involved, justice is never done where 
due process is ignored. The three managers 
were denied guaranteed University rights of 
oral warning, written warning and suspension 
before termination. They were never allowed 
to defend themselves in front of their ac­
cusers, there was no public disclosure of the 
evidence against them, and they were denied 
any avenue ofappeal. 
The firing of Eileen Bender, English profes­
sor, is yet another example of the autocratic 
nature ofemployer-employee relations at the 
University. Bender was let go despite recom­
mendations by the English department that 
she be retained. The administration has yet to 
give a public explanation ofwhy it ignored the 
recommendations of Bender's peers. The 
summary nature of these firings should leave 
all University employees with questions about 
their own job security. Are they, too, being 
asked to accept Father Hesburgh's personal 
assurance that justice will be done? 
In 1977 the University hired a union­
busting law firm, which threatened to perma­
nently "lay off'' employees attempting to 
unionize and used other questionable meth­
ods to oppose a unionizing attempt by Univer­
sity groundskeepers. Personnel Director 
Thomas Bull explained the University's ac­
tions saying, "we would like to think that 
Notre Dame is a good place to work and union 
presence isn't necessary." Once again the Uni­
versity assures us that justice will be done. 
If the University wishes to be taken seriously as an advocate of worker rights, it must first reexamine its own behavior. Notre Dame may be a "family" as Father Hesburgh likes to believe, but it is no one's patriarchy. Personal assurances must be replaced by ob­jective organs of justice and forums for worker grievances. The University must rec­ognize and respect its workers' right to orga­nize. Leadership in any moral crusade must be leadership by example. Notre Dame has yet to set that example. 
john Neblo is a senior economics major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
Department Managers 
Business Manager. _ . _Dave Taiclet Controller _ __ . Maripat Horne Adverttslng Manager _ _ _ . Anne Culligan Circulation Manager_ __Jeff O'Ne1ll Systems Manager_ . Kevin Williams Production Manager. .. Chris Bowler 
Project Manager ___ .. __ Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 


The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 



Accent 
Thursday, November 29, 1984 -page 9 
"Airwolf' flies circles around its competitor 
on the other hand, stuck by those brother in Vietnam. effective as the gruff Dominic San­concepts and came out the better tini as Alex Cord does well with hisEric Bergamo show because ofit. sophisticated Michael Archangel. 
It isJan:Michacl Vincent who carries the show as Stringfellow Jean Bruce Scott has been added to features staff writer The movie pilot of"Airwolf' had Hawke. Hawke is a loner who the cast as a love interest for Hawke its creator steal the helicopter and and is doing well with the task.
would rather stay at his cabin in the 
offer it to the Ubyians. The head of mountains and play his cello than Yet, it is the helicopter that steals the agency, Michael Archangel fly around in the futuristic Airwolf. every show. When Airwolf appears (Alex Cord), sought out Stringfel· in the sky with its machine guns 
I
Vincent plays the part perfectly, low Hawke Qan-Michael Vincent) projecting that need to get away blazing and roaring in at great magine this if you may: an attack eight. to retrieve the helicopter and bring from the maddening crowd but speeds, you see a kind a beauty in helicopter with the ability to fly "Airwolf', in its second season on it back. Instead, Hawke hides Air· 
being denied because of the com­its movements as it manuevers at speeds in excess of Mach One, CBS, was a mid-season replacement wolf to prevent it from falling into plications ofsubterfuge between around to avoid Soviet Migs and to armed with missles and machine to offset ABC's "Blue Thunder." the hands ofthe military and having the superpowers. It has been said gain the advantage to win. (The -­guns, protected by bullet impervi· Needless to say, Airwolf the them abuse its capabilities in the powerful background music helps a
that Vincent lacks in showing out· 
ous armor,and has all the capability helicopter flew circles around its conflict between the superpowers. lot at this point in the show) The
right emotion, but the character of 
ofannihilating the air forces of both competitor, as did the show Archangel offers to keep the gov­climax is always the same, Airwolf
Stringfellow Hawke doesn't need superpowers without suffering a "Airwolf' itself. ABC's "Blue ernment from finding Airwolf on the emotion. What is shown is unleashing its power on the enemy scratch to its finish or a dent in its Thunder" moved away from the one condition, that Hawke use and then flying offinto the sunset. I
enough indeed. 

armor. If you said this helicopter characters and situations that had Airwolfto help the agency's work. must admit it sounds ordinary, but 
was "Airwolf', you have seen this been created in the movie version To this, Hawke gives his own condi· The show is blessed with a fine once you see it, it is an ending well CBS entry on Saturday night at that spawned the show. "Airwolf', 
tion, that the agency find his MIA supporting cast. Ernest Borgnine is worth waiting for. 
Suicide slot kills potential of"Miami ViCe" 
high degree ofquality into the time. There are no gaps in the ac· a dent into the CBS hit by taking show. tion or holes in the believability of some of the audience away with itsEric Bergamo the plot. The production is well action-oriented show. Unfortun· lbe characters are believable, above average as the exotic toea· atcly, they underestimated the 
features staff writer not the usual stcroeotypcd "perfect tions in and around Miami are used drawing power of the CBS hit. The cop" found on police dramas in the to the fullest. The glamour and glitz best thing NBC could do now is to seventies. Crockett and Tubbs of Miami is felt, yet there is a sense move the show to another time slot. present direct opposites ofeach that something ugly cxsists under· Tuesday at ten would be the best other. Crockett is tough and cyni· neath all the polish. for it, drawing the audience that cal, while Tubbs projects a smooth watches The "A-Team" and 
W
ith the growing popularity of (Phillip Michael Thomas), in their and stylish image. They have prob· And finally, there is the music. It "Riptide" into its fold. rock videos, it was only a fight to keep the Gold Coast free of Iems that the viewers can relate to. docs not overpower the scene to matter of time before the major drug dealers, pornographers, and One episode had Crockett on the the point where it becomes more "Miami Vice" has been recently networks discovered this new the rest of the unsavory types that verge ofreuniting with his interesting than the action itself. compared to "Hill Street Blues" in a medium and incorporatt·d it into its vice squads deal with. Its premise is separated wife. After an attempted The music enhances the action to microcosm, probably because one new fall programming. Hut to do basic police melodrama · police hit on Crockett, in which his wife the stage where the music and of the producers is Anthony this with a pulice drama, well, then detectives go undercover to stop and son were caught in the cross· action merge into one arresting Yerkovich, who was one of the they arc treading into unsure something from "going down" and fire, his wife realizes that there image that makes the viewer want creators of the NBC phenomcnom. waters. NBC has successfully win in the end. For some police could be no way for them to get to watch and not just listen. He has hit paydirt again with traversed this gap and has produced ':~hows, this format would become back together, no matter how much There is only one fault with the "Miami Vice." 'Jbe only thing that a winner with "Miami Vice." stale after a few episodes. However they loved each other. show, and it is of the network's own remains to be done is to give it a 
for "Miami Vice," the plotlinc doing. "Miami Vice" has been decent time slot. Once this is done, 
"Miami Vice" focuses on two remains interesting for one good The scripts arc well crafted, scheduled in a veritable "suicide "Miami Vice" will match the suc­dett•ctivcs, Sonny CnKkett (Don reason. The producers, writers, moving quickly to the climax and slot" against "Falcon Crest." NBC cess of"Hill Street Blues." It might johnson) and Ricardo Tubbs directors, and actors have worked a building the tension at the same had hoped "Miami Vice" would put even exceed it. 









CHARITABLE 
Cant pus celebrity of the week . • •
Correction 
dcavor in New York; she has had readings of her plays in variousBecause ofan editing error, 

by Teresa Keefe 
theatrical companys in the Bigthe story on the effects ofdrink· 

features staffwriter Apple. This was also not the firsting in theAccent section of Nov. 
play she had ever written. She has 9 was incorrectly attributed to 

J
ulie jensen has attained celebrity tion changes becauseJensen di-­an impressive resume ofaward­Stephanie Seigel. The story was status in her own right although rected the College's production winning plays, readings, andwritten by Karen Russel. 
few know how or why she can be while Alma Beckes directed the productions in progress. claimed a celebrity. Jensen's play, New York production. jensen is going on sabbatical next "Kitchen Gothic," was produced off jensen said of the New York semester. Her future projects in· Broadway last spring under the title production that it was "very much a elude putting together three one· 
"Old Wives Tale." Notre stepping stone." She added, act plays and making them an Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre first "Whenever you hav~ got anything evening production. She is cur­produced the popular "Kitchen in New York wonderful things can rently directing "The Dramatist" 
Gothic" last fall. happen to you." which opens at Saint Mary's this Jensen, besides a playwright, is a This was not Jensen's first en· weekend. theatre professor at Saint Mary's College. When asked how a Saint 
Tired of the 
old routine? 
Mary's production landed in New York, she said, "I submit plays to any number oftheatres and they (The American Place Theatre)
Join 
picked it up having read my stuff." While the Saint Mary's produc· tion ran three nights to a standing·
The Features Department is 
room-only theatre, the New York 
counterpart ran March 20 through
accepting applications for: 
April 1. "This theatre was doing the project in a particular slot. That was all the time it could get," explained 
jensen. "Old Wives Tale" received
• Features copy editor 
reviews in Tbe New York Times, 
Village Voice, and Tbe New York 
Post, thus giving it much exposure. 
Besides changing the play's title 
For more Information c:ontac:t Mary Healy 
in making it's transition from Saint 
at the Ob•erver office, 239·5313 
Mary's to the New York stage, "We changed the end," saidJensen. There were also slight interpreta· Julie Jensen 
.... 
-
-

~­
Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
today at 6:30p.m. in room 204 O'Shaugnessy. -The Obseroer 
TheNotreDatne SquashClub wm be playing 
host to.a tournament tomorrow and Saturday._ There will be two divisions, beginner and intermediate, in the free tournament. For more information, call Sean at 277-3953 or Bill at 283-2302. -The Observer 
The NVAWeight Training <linic, which features Notre Dame strength and conditioning coach Gary Weil, is scheduled for Monday and Wednesday, December 3 and 5, at 7 p.m. Anyone who is interested may register at the NVA office or call 239­6100.-The Observer 
........... ..........,...., 
I 
Thursday, November 29, 1984-page 10 

Sixteen ROTC basketball teams from six states will participate Saturday and Sunday in the second annual ROTC tournament at Stepan Center. The tournament, which is sponsored by the Notre Dame Army ROTC drill team, features repre­sentatives from each of Notre Dame's ROTC units as well as teams from Illinois, Kentucky and Miami (Ohio). Admission to the games is free. · The Observer 
The NVA table-tennis tournament will begin Mon­day. Players should call the NVA office at 239-6100 to find out when and where their matches are scheduled. The first two rounds of the tournament will be completed before Christmas break. -The Observer 
<>bselver Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written.-The Obseroer 
AP 
Top Twenty 
The top twenty college basketball teams in The As­sociated Pr88S poll, with first-place votes in paren· theses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 2Q-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Georgetown (55) 2-Q 1127 
2. DePaul (1) 1-Q 941 
3. St.John's o-o 859 
4. Duke (1) 1·0 838 
5. Memphis St. o-o n5 6. Louisville 1-0 738 7. Illinois 3-1 696 
B. Washington o-o 662 
9. So. Methodist 1-Q 643 10. Oklahoma 2-1 571 11. North Carolina 2-Q 492 12. Indiana Q-1 459 13. Ala.-Birmingham 3-Q 429 
14. Syracuae o-o 423 15. Virginia Tech 1-Q 352 
16. Louisiana St. o-o 337 11. Arkansas 1-Q 293 18. Georgia Tech 1-Q 233 19. North Carolina 1-Q 205 20. Nevada-Las Vegas Q-1 193 
(tie) Kansas 2-1 193 
• 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's olft(·e, I<Kated on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classificds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per th·e charac­

Classifieds 
ters r da 

NOTICES  MONEY $$$ MONEY $$$ MONEY LOST:! FIGURED THIS WOULD GET YOUR ATTENTION.NOW WOULD YOU PLEASE RETURN MY WALLET THAT  FOR SALE: '72Skyt.rk Body: POM Engine: Good $500 or beet­ Some people jUst have way too muCh ... STYLE! On the Flying Island clLaputa...  SUNDAY IS JOE WHY-NOTS 21st BIRTHDAY. SO SATURDAY HE IS GOING TO GET WASTED. HE GETS HORNY WHEN HE GETS WASTED !!  Ok8y you allly Crew........,.,. You ran a huge claaaified praising your­selves for your recent 8988011 finale. Con­grata. But, when you named everyone,  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082.  YOU STOLE FROM ME WHILE I WAS SHOWERING AT THE ACC TO THEIR  Jeff 288-2042  PAUL WILKINS Is King!  Let's do thataundry ... Fiorida style!!  you forgot to men~on llrldget. the best coxswain of all ~me. Watt, it doesn't bot­ 
LOST&FOUND.YOU CAN KEEP THE  her her because now that the season is  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082.  DOLLAR OR PLACE IT IN THE COLLEC­ DEAR GREG HAPPY 21ST! HAVE A  Can we go to the zoo?  over, she doesn't have to listen to you  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-3117  TION BASKET ON SUNDAY AND MAKE BOTH OF US FEEL BETTER.  for sale! 76'VW RABBIT great conditions for info call1459  GREAT DAY, TODAY AND EVERYDAY LOVE, THE LITTLE ONE  BIRTHDAY WEEK CONTINUES!!  guys complain about her "deadWeight" So there Ill Na na na na na 1111  
PAC>-TYPE OVer 14 yrs. of experience.  MUST SELL!I! THREE-WAY PIONEER  HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES: IT ONLY  HORSE DIEDI NEED AIDE TO BOSTON  TO THE 5 GORGEOUS MOONHEADS  
Computarized eervice. Disaarta~ons, law papers, student papers 2n-5833. E.XF>'eiir...TYP'iNci····seiivicE'......cA'i:L MRS. COKER. 233-7009 .........................:YYPiN<i'"'' Jackie Boggs 684-8793  Lost: Ught brown cassette case in or near D-2 student lot on 11 /19 I can identify contents of the caae Please return. REWARD. CBH 1382 ................................................................ LOST: PAIR oF BLACK GLOVES BEFORE BREAK. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO, CALL GREG AT 3201  BOOKSHELF SPEAKERS 90 WPC, $90 CALLJIM2n-Q191 FOR SALE PIONEER STEREO RECEIVER SX450, 22WPC, GREAT COND, STEAL AT $40 CALL JIM 277­0191 FOR SALE .NC COMPUTER CON­ MAKES YOU A BETTER PERSON. For information call Mary Ann Roamer: 239­7949. THE DRAMATIST ... THE DRAMATIST... THE DRAMATIST ... THE DRAMATIST ... Starting November 30th and conUnuing throulfl December 7th  IT HAS ARRIVED PUBLICATION PARTY TONIGHT!!! WHEN: tonight -­7:00pm WHERE: Pasquerilla West lObby WHO: All welcome, all invited. FREEl! REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PRO. VIDEDII DON'T MISS ITII Bob, They redecorBted Azar's, didn't they?  WHO TRASHED THE FARLEY PENTHOUSE-IS MARK STILL CLEAN AND SINGLE? HOW IS RICH JOHN'S LONG ... .AND MIKE'S TENDENCIES? AND BOB-THE ONLY GUY WHO CAN FRENCH INHALE AND BURN HIS TONGUE. AND OH YES.TO THE DEGENERATE IN THE CORNER­WE'VE BEEN SINGING YOUR X-MAS  
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES 277-41045 PICKUP AND DELIVERY EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. CALL 287-5162. SPRING BREAK in Daytona BeaCh from $89, South Padre from $78, Mustang Is­land/Port Aranaas $119, SteambOat Springs skiing from $79. HURRY "Break from the Bool<s" call SunChaae Tours toll free for more informa-tion 1-800-321­5911 or contact a SunChaae Campus Repr-tive or your local Travat Agency TODAY!  LOST: ONE GREEN 1.0. FOLDER WITH 1.0., DETEX, PA LICENSE, AND MASTER CARD; ON MONDAY AT LUNCHTIME (EITHER IN NORTH DINING HALL OR EN ROUTE TO BADIN). IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL LEANNE AT x3622, OR BRING BY 232 BADIN HALL. THANKS! LOST: ONE GREEN I.D. FOLDER WITH 1.0., DETEX, PA LICENSE, AND MAS­TERCARD. THESE ITEMS OF EX­TREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE WERE QUITE STUPIDLY LOST ON MONDAY, NOV 25 AT LUNCHTIME IN C LINE OF NORTH DINING HALL, OR EN ROUTE TO BADIN HALL. IF FOUND, PLEASE, OH PLEASE CALL LEANNE MICHELLE  TROLLED CASSETIE DECK, AUTO REVERSE, ONE YEAR OLD. EXCEL­LENT CONDITION. $160 CALL JIM 2n­0191 TICKETS NEED 2 SETS OF 21NDIANA TIX-KEVIN 3562 NEED MONEY FOR CHRISTMAS? SELL ME YOUR 2 tU-ND B-IIALL GA TIX. PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 23~ 5303.  DEAR 3CHRISTI FROM SMC 1, Penn State is awfully far away, so Why S don't you get a boyfriend from a real school (N.D.)? A Concerned Domer Whatever happened to Wfld Cherry? Spring Break: DEBBIE DOES DALLAS DECEMBER 111115 GRADUATES: REG­ISTER FOR SPRING SEMESTER IM­TEAVIEWS FROM DECEMBER 3-7. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES, MEMORIAL UBAAAY.  YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD Hey Band! stop complaining abOut not going to Hawaii. You know band is only a one credit "course." The PETE AND RAY SERIAL returns: What has happened, have you two started to study? Pate do you know What a book looi<S like? You've been aWful quiet lately. Good we like you best that way. Just you walt for "infamy."  TUNE EVER SINCE YOU LEFT. ACTU­ALLY WE WOULDN'T HAVE YOU ANY OTHER WAY. WE ADORE YOU. COME SEE US AGAIN-SOON. ·THE TWO MOST BEAUTIFUL WOMEN YOU KNOW. SEANYCAKES (INDII)-EVEN IN JEANS,T-SHIRT,BLOODSHOT EYES,UNSHAVEN FACE AND TOUSELED HAIR-YOU ARE A GOD.(DAPPER TOO)-LOVE ME. THE OBSERVER NEEDS SAINT MARY'S DAY EDITOR FOR M-W-F FOR NEXT SEMESTER. THIS IS A PAID PO­SITION. DON'T MISS OUT!!! FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 239-5303.  
AT X3622 OR COME BY 232 BADIN  
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 LOST/FOUND I  HALL. YOUR COMPLIANCE IS VERY MUCH APPRECIATED!! LOVE, LEANNE FELLIN. FOR RENT  Need 41U tix.Stu or GA. tx kevin at 3457. MY DAD WILL PAY BIG$ FOR 2 TICK­ETS TO THE I.U. GAME, CALL TOM -1587  DON'T MISS The Miss Holy Cross Con­test! This Thurs. Nov.29-8:0Q-10:00 at SMC Little Theatre Moreau  Nancy Snow's "Piaasure Palace" : Where bleeding-heart liberals and true busines· &like, conservative Americans party! FOUND;CASE WITH VAST AMOUNT OF CASH AND RARE GOLD COINS.TO  DEAR NO, IT IS MY PLEASURE TO IN­FORM YOU THAT TODAY IS KERRY (FLORADA) GILL'S BIRTHDAY. TO HELP PASS A NORMALLY LONELY DAY GIVE HER A CALL 3789 SHE NEEDS IT, REALLY.  
LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH MIS· SOURI 10. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON  fOR RENT 3 brm/1 bth house near ND Perfect for grad students $425/ mo Avail  PERSONALS  ... and on his NEXT date, Kevin Flynn is going to see THE DRAMATIST -opens FRIDAY  CLAIM CALL CARL AT 283-1248.  OIATBAG DOMINATiON! Congratulations to the undetaated Stan­ 
SAT. PLEASE CONTACT 3085.  Jan 1 Call287 7318  LORI CIRA-HAWAII BOUND. BETTER  ford Hall football team.  
TO WHOEVER TOOK MY COAT FROM THE 2-7 PARTY AT EAST MARION STREET ON FRIDAAY NIGHT: PLEASE RETURN IT!! I DON'T WANT TO FREEZE All WINTER LONG. I AM OF· FERING A REWARD FOR IT'S RETURN TO MY POSESSIQN, NO QUESTIONS  WANTED WANTED DEAD OR ALIVE: Starboard,  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOA, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 83LC  GET OUR "SPECIALTV" DINNERS IN BEFORE WE Go. IT MIGHT MAKE THE TRIP MORE EXCITING. PS. WOULD YOU BE INTERESTED IN SENDING RANSOME NOTES FROM OREGAN SOON?  THE SKYS THE LIMIT IN CHICAGO. WHY NOT TAKE A CHANCE ON A FREE WEEKEND IN THE WINDY CITY, OR­FREE MEALS AT SWEENEYS, ICEHOUSE, ETC. TICKETS ONLY $3 ON SALE WED THRU SAT IN SMC HC HALL. FOR ??? CALL KATHLEEN AT  · Ara Parseghian Hey Miss Junior Indiana Is it still raining?? I'm not 88 rude 88 you think ... Really!!  
ASKED. IT'S A STRIPED ABOVE THE KNEE WOOL COAT, SIZE 9. CALL NORMA AT 28081F YOU CAN HELP ME. LOST A BLACK LEATHER RUGBY JACKET WITH A WALLET ON SENIOR SUICIDE STOMP FRIDAY, NOV 16. PLEASECALLJQHNAT234-7412.  MJ&Al SW FLA Ride home needed for Xmu break. My laat final ends at 12:30 on the 19th. P'-call Bob at 2037. Wanted. Armorer for University Of Notre Dame v8181ty fencing team. Able to wort< with small tools and mechanicalty and  ND NOVICE CREW NO NOVICE CREW Philly,PA Since The ObserVer did not write a story on ND Novice Crew, here are the details: Fourty-two people, listed below, travatad to Philly, PA, the weekend of the Yugos­lavia b-balt game, the Flxx concert, the Penn State game, the lnterhlllt f-ball gamee, and the Rocky Horror Pic Show to  ap-: Do you think you can come down to earth tong enovgh to enjoy the dance Friday night? P.D.­why ..yau ao llfMCiy?  4440(SMC) HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8·11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1am OANO ... HAPPY YOU KNOW WHAT!!! I  DO!DOIDOHor my roommate, and THIS is the thanks that I get. She has a birthday so close to Christmu that I can't afford to buy her a present.Thanks.PATTY KANE.for turning 20 today .I REAllY ap­preciate it-J.L. SEE THE DRAMATIST LEARN about IN­TRIGUE your lovelife will never be the same  
LOST: One ~ t-ahirt at Rock on Friday aftamoon a COUPle d -.ago; hu 'Endangered Fecea' on front and '2' on back. Greatllaflliment8l value. If IOund or borrowed~ Clll Animal at 3338.  electrically inclined. PI-CCifltact Mike DaClcco at 23~55115. NEED RIDE to IU 11/3Q-12/2 1240 ................................................................ NEED RIDE TO DAYTON OH WKND OF  repr_,t Notre Dame in a sport Where the athletaa sit on their -­and go backwardll. Need~-. to say, Notra Dame dominated. THEY CONOUERED Congrats to: ~an. Kathy, Laura. Andrea, Megan, catherine, Carol,  WORDS oF WISOOM FROM GRANDMA LUSH Be Clll8ful -Wid if )'011 can't ,. caretul name It a1trJrme.  hope~ is a good one!! Lots or Lova ... Usa McSquid, pteaM. ································································ YOU MADE IT·A QUARTER OF A CEM­TURY. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, SORAYA.  ANN HAPPY S.D.STYLEI We're back...  21st!CELEBRATE  
- SURESHOT 36MM CAMERA LOST ON THE FIElD AFTER THE PENN ST. VIC­TORY PLEASE HELP ME SEE MY OCT. BREAK PHOTOS ON THE FILM.CALL ANYTIME SMC-5165 OR -52561 THANKSI  NOV. 30CALLBILL2153 NEED RIDERS TO IU-BLMGT THIS WKENO/CALL 1034 DRIVE TO SEATTLE FOR HOLIDAYS!  Gretchen, and Malgo. Lori, Mwgy, Sue. Chria, Kathy, Moly, Amy, Cotlaen, and Carol. Mark, Corey, Bill, Eric, 811, Bil, Todd, Kevin, and Greg. Mugs, Elinor, John, Pall, M81k, St.phanie, Jeff.  Ball, We ­GRE's.  you out tha wi!IOOW after Braen-Ph/11/pa Hell  LOVE, YOUR ROOMIES NO NOVICE CREW NO NOVICE CREW Way to go heavyweights Phily wiN not ..-. forvet you or the blue tights: JIM JOE CLAY TREY RICH TIM MARK PAUL  "IMPORTED" from tha ArchHectura Building BeauxArtaBaH  
I FOUND A NICE RING AT THE BARS THURS. 11/15. CALL ALAN AT 3267 TO IDENTIFY. Found: KhUi lnBP on hood with bfOWn plad, wool lining on-.IOOibltll field .ner PennS..QM~e.c.IMatl )277-6463f0r relum.  I'VE GOT THE CAR. YOU SUPPLY DRIVER(S) AND GAS. FOR MORE IN­FORMATION, WRITE T. REID. 5015 36TH AVENUE, NE, SEATTLE, WA 118106 OR CALL (206)524-4567. FOR SALE  STARBOARDS GIVE ME MORElli Dickey ar-m Dickey G-..am Dickey Gr&erl811!  TURN THE TAIILESIII Fnt you put .... In tha North Dining Hall, and now lhial We Mked It tha way It-· Po, Do lilt caliblte Will'*' la<:k parking brakes?  BRIDGET NO NOVICE CREW NO NOVICE CREW Phllly,PA QUESTION: What happanad to our ad In the Oblerver'l Congrats to: ~. Jim, Tim, Clay, Rich, Trey, Paul, Joe, Bridget QUOTES OF THE MONTH:  1984 Friday, November 30th, 9:00 pm, Arlde Building pre ....& at tha door LIMITEDTICKETS ...the my8larioue 4N Iivas on ...  tha  

IF YOU FOUND A SilVER MENS SEtKO COLE'S...''WIIgner you're tat" "Y-.11, I'm LCD WATcH IT'S MINE. MOST UKELY hungry too" "11'1 10 aggravating not
AND DON'T -1HI8 "CHRISTMAS 
O.K. I relllze ... -CM't have every­LOST ON NORTH QUAD NEAR FOR UU!: 11183 Fender MulliCmMier WITH HOLY CROSS DANCE" Sl at hwllng film" PUKE!! SLAM!! "I'm 10 ham­

thing, but

KEENAN HALL PLEASE CALL SCOTT aleCiric IJUI*. exc.llent c:onchOn. $200 Did'y;;;;";;;;;..g;;"~"~"~"ii~ .. door-8MC dnlng H8l Seturday 11-1 mered" 4:30a.m. ~:OOa.m. GOOD TIME AT3281.REWARDI ... or baa! all.-. c.ll2851. -? o.r-outthend Holy en.W..t LEECH 
... how allout lunch next WMk? 

-
The Observer Thursday, No,~mber 29, 1984-page 11 
U eberroth thinks TV stations are a problem 
Allsodated Pre88 
NEW YORK · Commissioner Peter llcberroth warned yesterday that the proliferation of TV superstations had become baseball's "most serious problem," casting in doubt the pro­posed transfer of Texas Rangers' stock to Gaylord Broadcasting. 
Rangers owner Eddie Chiles said 
the minority stock deal would be on 
the agenda for baseball's winter 
meetings Dec. 3·7 in Houston. 
However, Ueberroth's attorney, Ed Durso, confirmed yesterday that the commissioner's office had sug· gested Gaylord make "some modifi· cations to make a deal that looks better from our perspective." 
Durso said the suggested modifi­cations were "not focusing on the superstation issue." 
During a wide-ranging briefing on the upcoming winter meetings, Ueberroth told reporters he would look very closely at any stock trans­fer involving superstations · cable networks that use satellite signals to transmit games throughout the country. 
Ueberroth called the supersta· tions' effect on baseball revenue "insidious" and said they had cur­tailed the ability of other teams to make money from their own market. 
"It does, without question · in all our research · dramatically affect at­tendance negatively," Ueberroth said. He said TV saturation created by the superstations also "dramatically affects television. ratings," and therefore reduces the amount of money filtering down to baseball through television advertis­ing. 
He said the fact that all or parts of seven franchises currently were for sale was one of the "manifestations" of baseball's financial difficulties, in part created by the superstations. 
College football coaches with the most national championships 
1) Bear Bryant  -Alabama  6  
2)Bernie Bierman  -Minnesota  5  
3)Knute Rockne  -Notre Dame  4  
4)Howard Jones-Yale, Iowa, USC  4  
S)Frank Leahy -Notre Dame  4  
6)John McKay  -USC  4  
7) Walter Camp-Yale  3  
8) Percy Haughton  -Harvard  3  
9) Bob Zuppke ­ Illinois  3  
10) Darrell Royal  -Texas  3  
11) Bud Wilkinson  -Oklahoma  3  
12) Woody Hayes ­ Ohio St.  3  




AP Phmo 
are off to a good start, having won their first two games. Georgetown is currently top-ranked in the AP Top Twenty poll, which arpears on page /0. 

Rose Bowl is most lucrative 
Six Big Ten teams got bowl bids 
A88odated Pre88 
CHICAGO · A record six Big Ten football teams will be going to bowl games this holiday season · aiming more for prestige than riches. 
Except for the lucrative Rose Bowl, where champion Ohio State will face Southern California, most of the bowl games will provide little more than expenses. 
Ohio State will haul away more than $5 million, which will be split 11 ways, with the conference office receiving a share. Most of the other bowls wiU not exceed the $750,000 minimum payment. 
Participating teams get to keep everything up to $750,000, which presumably will cover expenses · es­pecially with most of the schools taking thei~ hands along. 
Prestige, however, is a big factor, according to coaches interviewed Tuesday in a series of telephone calls. Michigan has the biggest op­portunity to provide most of that prestige because the Wolverines get a shot at top-ranked, undefeated Brigham Young in the Holiday Bowl at San Diego on Dec. 21. 
"We lost five games and didn't an­ticipate having such an opportu· nity," said Coach Bo Schembechler, whose Wolverines finished 6-5. "I might add that every game we "The Michigan tradition is to play played was close and hard. hard and win," he said. "We arc not 

"Brigham Young is No. 1 and the going out there with the idea of most prolific passing team in the na­being cannon fodder for Brigham tion," Schembechler said. "We are Young." schooled in handling that kind of as­Defeating the nation's top-ranked signment. We played Miami, Illinois, team would be nothing new to the Iowa and Purdue -all nationally Wolverines, who knocked off Miami, ranked passing teams · and we were Fla., when the Hurricanes were 2-and-2 against them. ranked No. I. 
Teammate Johnson thinks Byars should win Reisman 
A88odated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio · Thomas "Pepper" johnson, Ohio State's All­Big Ten linebacker, says yardage comes harder for teammate Keith Byars than Boston College's record­breaking passer Doug Flutie, the leading candidates for the Heisman Trophy. 
The Heisman, which goes an­nually to the nation's No. 1 college football player, will be announced Saturday night in New York. Miami (Fla.) quarterback Bernie Kosar, Flutie and Byars, the three leading candidates for the 1984 award, have been Invited to the ceremonies an­nouncing this year's selection. 
·~gQowetrg {;on aQQ or,(~agloflg ·· 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 
232-3354 


To all who would like to use the Nazz or the Chautauqua Ballroom... 
For your convenience, request forms have been developed and are located In the Student Activities Board Office on the Second Floor of LaFortune... All those who would like to request the use of the Nazz or Chautauqua must complete a form one week and one day prior to the night of the event so that we may publicize 8t schedule the event. 
Thank you, 

The Student Activities Board 
johnson, the sixth-ranked 
Buckeyes' top defender, said of 
Flu tie, "He may throw a 12-yard pass 
and then the guy who caught it may 
run for 20 more. And Flutie gets all 
the credit." 
johnson then spoke of his 235· pound junior teammate: "Keith lines up eight yards behind the line to begin with, so he's working with a deficit. And then, when he gains yardage, he's got to go through 11 guys to do it. He's getting help from his offensive line, sure, but every team we played this year was point· ing toward Byars. 
"So what he has done has been 
remarkable. People don't realize it, 
but he's playing in the Big Ten, prob· 
ably the most physical league in 
America." 
Byars needs 41 yards against 
Southern California in the Rose 
Bowl to break former Ohio State tall· 
back Archie Griffin's conference and 
school single-season rushing 
records of 1,695 yards. 
Byars said ofthe Heisman, "My bid is in. You do that with how you per­form in the ball games. I gave it my best shot. Now all we can do is sit and see how the votes go. There's no doubt Flutle is an outstanding foot· ball player. He means a lot to their team. He's had an outstanding year also. But I'm not going to take a back seat." 
The Buckeyes' tailback, the son of a Dayton, Ohio, minister, was asked about his thoughts if he loses the award to Flutie. "It would be disap· pointing because I feel I have had a good enough year, worthy of the Heisman Trophy. It would be a set· back to me," he answered. 
Ohio State Coach Earle Bruce said of his star runner, "I don't know if he'll be the Heisman Trophy winner, but he is sure the Heisman Trophy winner in my book." 
let US do your shipping: 
U.P.S. EMERY PARCEL POST 
SHIPPING ETC. 
University Center, Grape Rd. AdJacent to Macri's Dell 

---------------------~ --------------­The Observer 
~ ----~­
Thursday, November 29, 1984 -page 12 

Cross-country team finished season in fine form 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The 1984 Notre Dame cross country team surprised many people by qualifying for the NCAA Cross Country Championships for the first time since 1966. Even though the Irish placed 19th at the NCAA's after having hopes of a top­ten finish, the season and the meet cannot be considered a disappoint­ment. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane took a positive view ofboth the season and the NCAA's. 
"The whole season was a big plus," Piane commented. "even the NCAA's. The meet went well be­cause we were there, and because of that I'm pleased. Most ofthe runners felt they could have run better, but we were just happy to be there." 
The Irish began their quest for a place in the NCAA's with a victory in their opening meet on September 
14. The team scored 30 points (lowest score wins) to easily defeat Ohio State, Northwestern, Western Michigan, and Missouri. 
The Irish were led by sophomore Mike Collins, senior Tim Cannnon, and senior co-captain Bill Courtney, who placed third, fourth, and fifth respectively. Freshman Dan Garrett and senior Ed Willenbrink finished eigth and tenth to round out the scoring for the Irish. 
Two weeks later Notre Dame faced stiffer competition at the Na­tional Catholic Meet, but the team prevailed. and scored 57 points to capture the meet championship over 22 other teams. Boston College finished second with 81 points, while Marquette followed closely behind with a third-place total of85 points. 

Courtney, Cannnon, and Collins finished seventh, ninth, and twelfth respectively. Willenbrink placed 14th, and was directly followed by Garrett in 15th. Even though they didn't count in the scoring, junior John Magill and senior co-captain Jim Tyler finished 17th and 18th, which was good enough to displace scoring runners from competing schools. 
It was at the National Catholic Meet/that the Irish displayed most vividly the traits that would lead them to their successful season. The team ran in a group and pushed each other to run better, which is shown by the fact that all seven runners placed in the top 18 and within twelve places ofeach other. In addi­tion, all seven runners ran the five­mile course in under 25 minutes. 
Notre Dame continued its unbeaten string with a victory one week later in the Notre Dame Invita­tional. The Irish tallied 77 points to defeat runner-up Southeast Missouri State and 44 other teams. 
Cannon finished tenth to lead the Irish, while Willenbrink had his best race ofthe year in placing 12th. Gar­rett and Collins finished 15th and 17th, respectively, while Tyler rounded out the scoring with a 23rd place finish. 
The Irish had a week off, and then came backon October 19 to capture the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet. The team accumulated only 36 points, to easily outdistance second place Purdue with 48 points and third-place Indiana with 60 points. 
Once again Cannon led the way for the Irish with a second-place finish. However, Garrett and Courtney deserve much credit for the victory because they passed three Purdue runners at the four­mile mark and held them off to the finish. Collins placed tenth for Notre Dame, while Willenbrink finished 15th. 

The Irish travelled to Butler Uni­versity in Indianapolis for their first away meet of the year, the Midwes­tern City Conference Meet. The change in courses didn't bother the Irish, as they captured the meet title with the incredibly low score of 21 points. Loyola finished far behind in second with 65 points, while defending-champion Oral Roberts captured third with 74 points. 
Cannon won the individual title, and.was followed by Tyler in third place and Garrett in fourth place. Collins placed sixth while Courtney followed in seventh. The Irish, who were allowed to run extra men in the meet, so thoroughly dominated that they had 11 men in the top 18 finishers, and would have still won the meet if their top four men had not run. 
On November 10 the Irish faced their toughest competition of the year at the NCAA District IV Qualify­ing Meet at Illinois. The district, which is the toughest in the country, included five teams ranked in the Top Twenty, and several other strong teams that were ranked at one time during the year. 
The Irish scored 131 points to capture the fourth and final NCAA qualifying spot. The team finished behind Wisconsin, Illinois, and Mic­higan. 
Garrett ran a fine race to finish 15th overall in a time of 30:33 for the 10,000 meter course. Garrett's placing was the highest ofany fresh­men in the district, and good enough to qualify himself as an individual if the team had not qualified. 
Collins and Cannon finished 21st and 23rd respectively. Courtney placed 38th, while Willenbrink rounded out the scoring with a 44th place finish. 
On November 19, the Irish com­peted in the NCAA Cross Country Championships at Penn State as one of the top 22 teams in the country. 
Notre Dame scored 369 points to finish 19th. Arkansas won the meet with 101 points, and was followed by Arizona with Ill points. Even though the Irish finished far back in the standings, they were only 41 points away from their pre-meet goal ofa top ten finish. 
Much of the credit for the team's incredible success must be given to Piane. He became the coach of the Irish cross country and track teams in 1975, and the teams have im­proved each year. 
"Coach Piane did a great job," says Magill. "He pushed all the right but­
tons, because look at where we got 
this year. 
"Piane trUsted the team more than 
in other years. We had a good group 
ofkids so we could train on our own 
and help design our workouts. He 
opened himself up to be more like 
himself, and he should be com­
mended for that." 
Despite the somewhat disappoint­
ing finish in the NCAA's, the whole 
experience ofthe national meet will 
help the Irish in coming years. 
"Next year the team will be more comfortable in a tough race," Can­non said. "They will handle it with more perseverance and confi­dence." 
Although the team is losing four seniors, the remaining runners have cbnfidence about the years to come. 
"The program is coming ofage. Its improved every year, and this year is just another step up," Magill says. "We're dedicated and working to­gether so we can get better times and win some more big meets. Our next step is to go back to the NCAA's and do better." 
The Irish, while having a lot of in­dividual talent, succeeded because of teamwork and consistency. The team displayed a special character and togetherness that allowed them to stay strong in the final miles of each race and emerge as the winner of the meet. 
"This is not my most talented team," Piane explains. "However, this was my best team in terms of chemistry and committment to being the best." 
Wildcats 
continuedjrompage 16 
stage for our going to Notre Dame." 
The Wildcats, plagued by 60 per­cent free throw shooting last season, missed three of their first four at­tempts Monday night before Peter­son made a three-point play to put them up by 12 points eight minutes into the game. 
Defensively, •Falk hopes his Wildcats will be able to equal last year's aggressive style of play, when Northwestern was ranked in the na­tion's defensive top five for most of the season. It allowed just 54 points per game last season, holding six op­ponents under 50 points. 
Although Northwestern usually falls back into a zone defense that Falk calls a "modified man-to-man," the Wildcats played an all-out man­to-man in their victory over Loras. 
"We wanted to take the game to them," said Falk, explaining the de­fensive switch. "We didn't want any laid-back attitude." 
Falk's defense will be trying to stop an Irish team that hasn't put its starting lineup on the court in two weeks.Junior forward Jim Dolan suf­fered a bruised shoulder November 
Women 
continuedfrompage 16 
improving." 
Despite the loss offive swimmers to graduation last year, Stark suspects several of the nine fresh­men joining the Irish line-up will take their places. 
"We hope the new people will give additional depth," says Stark. 
"There are a lot of freshmen this year and they always add a lot of spirit," says Amico. "We're all real close and although I can't make ·all th.e practices, I still feel included." 
The Irish remained on campus during the Thanksgiving Break, holding double practices to prepare them for the next two weeks. 
"We had an intersquad meet to 
see how we were progressing," says 
Stark. "It gave us a little pulse." 
With the Notre Dame Relays and 
four dual meets slated for the next 
two weeks, Stark will test the im­
provement in the team's pulse. 

15 against the Zadar Club of Yugos­Phelps of the backcourt situation. lavia and sat out Sunday night's "Right now we want Rivers and opener against Manhattan. Hicks and Price to become com­
Dolan should be in the starting fortable playing with each other in lineup tonight, joined in the game situations. Dan Duff and Jeff frontcourt byfellow tri-captains Ken Peters will have their chances to fit Barlow and Tim Kempton. Kempton in there as well." has been hampered by a recent leg IRISH ITEMS· Rivers became the injury, but should be available for first Irish player since Adrian duty. Dantley to start the first game of his 
Phelps will start freshman David freshman season when he started Rivers at the point guard spot, while against Manhattan Sunday ....A lim­working both sophomore Scott ited number of upper arena tickets, Hicks and juniorJoseph Price at the priced at five dollars apiece, still shooting guard position. remain for tonight's game as well as 
"We're going to look at different Saturday's game against St. Francis .. combinations early in the year and ..Tickets are on sale at gate 10 ofthe see what we can accomplish," says ACC. 
MINORITY STUDENTS 
interested in 
LAW 
join GRANVILLE CLEVELAND of Notre Dame Law School to discuss available opportunities 
Thursday, November 29th 121 O'Shaughnessy 
7:00pm '==;;;;;;;;;;;;;S~;;;;;;;;;;;;;S~=-~ 
r--······..............................................,"................................., Open to All 
THE BOBS 
from San Francisco 
Dec 1, Saturday
i 
at .. 
~Iml~ §~ 


iHuoiiiiiiiiiiiOIIIIIIIIIIIOOIIIIOIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOIOIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJ 
Men 
continuedfrom page 16 
competition, it is tough to tell how they will perform. Leading a host of promising freshmen swimmers is James Dowd who will challenge in the freestyle sprint." 
The Irish won the Notre Dame Relays last year and Stark hopes to do as well this year. 
"We have a few tough meets back­to-hack in order to get the competi­tion in, so we have to ask our strong swimmers to double events," said Stark. 
The Irish face a tough Bowling Green team, as well as Cleveland State, and St. Bonaventure this season. 
One of the goals of the Irish is to improve their second place finish at the Midwestern City Champion­ships against Evansville last year. 
"Without scholarships, we can only hope to fill the holes left by graduation and we can't plan for the season," says Stark. "We will combine the swimmers to find the right relay teams and do the best we can. We plan to draw recruits from the new pool constrUction due for completion in August." 
STUDY 
IN ENGLAND 
For British Undergraduates. the best education is in Oxford and Cambridge • For Americans, it's in Canterbury • 
The Institute for American Universities in Canterbury offers a unique programme of demanding, personalised instruction in liberal arts subjects. 
Try it It'll permanently change your way of thinking. 
For information. write to the Institute for American Umversities. 73 Castle Street Canterbury CT1 200. or see your campus study-abroad advisor. 


DARBY'S 
for late night munchies ... 
<?~'N:JJ,~ O' 'I' v~
"'-L . .., 
-~~­
__ c..__;"' 

~-----In the basement of LaFortune The Observer Thursday, November 29, 1984 -page 13 




~ -~~--~--------­
The Observer Thursday, November 29, 1984-page 14 
Irish volleyball team showed positive signs in '84 
PRICES GOOD THROUGH DEC. 1, 1984 
CANS 

i-Gi'Frc'Eiri'Fic-Ans-1 
i 

AVAILABLE I
GALLO 
AT ALL STORES
PREMIUM 
CHIVAS REGAL
WINES 
SCOTCH

----------------1
3.0 L. 
750 ML.

499 

1199 
LORD CALVERT 
SMIRNOFF
CANADIAN 
VODKA
750 ML. 
750 ML.

499 499 
CARLO ROSSI
BAILEY'S IRISH 
4.0 L.
CREAM 
750 ML. 
499
1049 
AMARETTO Dl 
SEAGRAM'S 7·CROWN 
SARONNO
750 ML. 
750 ML.

499 

1099


By ERIC SCHEUERMANN with solid fundamentals and consis­Sports Writer tency. On the other hand, there were times when the Irish seemed 
It began as a season full of prom­ neither physically nor mentally  
ises. And it ended on a sour note. But  ready to compete.  
in between, the Notre Dame wo­ 
men's volleyball team put together a  Looked at in perspective,  
very fine season and gave glimpses  however, the season has to be con­ 
of the success that Irish fans hope is  sidered a success. After finishing  
on the way.  with an 11-30 record last year, the  
team was able to move back above  
With a 15-9, 15-4, and 15-7 loss to  . 500 against a very fine group of op­ 
the Spartans of Michigan State  penents.  
before Thanksgiving, the Irish ended  Although seemingly too short a  
a 14-13 season. Notre Dame experi­ team to control net play, the Irish  
enced its share of ups and downs  parlayed their jumping ability into  
during the year, and this was cer­ 719 kills during the season, while  
tainly one of the latter.  limiting their opponents to 662. The  
Irish were also able to match their  
After the team took second place  opponents' totals in the categories  
in the North Star Conference tourna­ of aces, blocks, and digs.  
ment the weekend before by playing  
some inspired volleyball, the Irish  "We were happy with the season,"  
coaches were afraid the players  said DeGraff. "We finished 14-13, we  
would suffer a letdown. As it turned  were tied for first in the conference  
out, that is exactly what happened.  after the regular season, and we lost  
in five games to Xavier in the confer­ 
"We weren't happy at all (with the  ence tournament finals to finish  
MSU game)," commented Irish assis­ second.  
tant coach Renee DeGraff. "We were  "We turned the program around.  
so high for the NSC tournament, and  We've got a long road ahead of us,  
then we hit an extreme low.  but compared to last year I think we  
really had a good year."  
"I wonder if some of the girls  At the beginning of the season,  
might have thought the season was  head coach Art Lambert placed one  
over after the tournament. But it's  goal ahead of all others as he talked  
hard to get up for a single match  of the upcoming season. He wanted  
after a tournament. It's a roller  all the players to improve so as to  
coaster."  build for the future. It is in that  
One might be justified in calling  respect that the season can be seen  
the whole season a roller coaster. At  as most successful.  
times, the Irish played brilliant vol­ "Every single girl got better," said  
leyball, controlling their matches  DeGraff. "We've got a lot of work to  

St. Mary's Wood sets playoffs as goal for '84 
By PAM CUSICK at Saint Mary's, Wood describes it as Sports Writer "better than expected." "The Administration has been 
Leading the Belles to a 1-1 record cooperative and the young ladies so far this season, Marvin Wood, have been class both on and off the head coach of the Saint Mary's bas­court," he added. ketball team, has one goal in mind: to "He is a fair person because he qualify his team in the NAJA District respects us as people, not just as Playoffs this year. players," says sophomore guard 
Wood was first interested in the Mariclaire Driscoll. "He teaches us job this summer when he heard the fundamentals--he tells us not there was an opening. With 28 years only what to do but why we are of coaching experience, he decided doing it." to give coaching at Saint Mary's a try: "He keeps everyone's spirits up," 
"Coaching is like recess to a small says freshman forward Rachel Bir. boy. You enjoy it. You become a part "He's a terrific coach and is very op­ofit," says Wood, Mishawaka's 1983 timistic." Man of the Year. "I was pleasantly Wood apparently has exhibited a surprised about this job because I smooth transition for the Belles in didn't know what to expect." his first year as coach, because he 
Currently a counselor at Mis­knows the game and is very positive. hawaka High School, Wood has "He's doing a fantastic job be­coached a total of 28 years -two cause he is intelligent, calm, positive years at French Uck High School, and knows the game," says freshman two years at Milan High School, two center Stephanie Duke. years at New Castle High School, Rebounding off a close 79-77 nine years at North Central High defeat by NAJA District runner-up School, three years at Shelbyville Huntington College Tuesday night, High School and 13 years at Mis­Wood plans on preparing his wo­hawaka High School. men for this weekend's Goshen Col­
In 1974, he was named District lege Tournament where they will Coach of the Year boasting a 20-3 take on Defiance College on Friday record as Mishawaka's varsity bas­at 6 p.m. and will compete against ketball coach, and was elected to the Franklin College at noon on Satur­Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame one day. year later. If the Saint Mary's basketball team 
Wood then began to successfully sweeps the tournament this coach girls high school basketball at weekend, Wood's goal for the Belles Mishawaka in 1983 where his team to qualify in the NAJA District became both sectional and regional Playoffs may not be as unattainable champions, Holiday Tournament­as most may think. Champions (six times), and AAU 18­and-under state champions. 
Last season, the Belles record was 4-18 which, Wood hopes, has room for improvement. "We have to be competitive and 

Please play like winners," he says. "I hope to win most of the tournaments on 
support
our schedule." 
A Butler University graduate with a B.S. in Physical Education, Health 

AMERICAN and Zoology, Wood followed with a Masters in Educational Administra­
CANCER 
do, but everyone improved a great deal." 
Although most of the team will return next year, two seniors played their final game for the Irish last week. Josie Maternowski led the team all year long with her inspired and consistent play, contributing 123 kills, 97 digs, and a .173 spiking percentage. Mary Jo Hensler, al­though hampered often by injuries which limited her playing time, also helped the Irish at the net. 
But many young players who con­tributed greatly to the success ofthe team will be back next year. Sopho­more Karen Sapp rebounded from a slow start, and led the team with 161 kE-ls and a .180 spiking percentage. 



CROWN ROYAL 
750 ML.
1049 
ANDRE CHAMPAGNE 
PINK&WHITE 750 Ml. 
UNIVERSITY CENTER MISHAWAKA 
211·7116 

Freshman Kathy Morin was a pleasant surprise, leading the Irish with 28 aces and helping out at the net. Junoir hitter Tracy Bennington contributed with her team-leading 92 blocks. 
In addition, freshman Jill Suglich and junior Mary McLaughlin im­proved tremendously at the setter position over the season, and will be back to run the offense again next year. 
And so, with a strong base in place, good things are hoped for in the future. Neither of the coaches are going to take it easy until these good things materialize. Both have already left on recruiting trips to prepare for next year. 
GLENLIVET 
"Next season we're going to surprise an awful lot ofpeople," says DeGraff. "Now that we've got a chance to recruit heavily, I think we're going to be able to bring some very good athletes to Notre Dame. 
"The teams we played this year got a taste ofwhat Art and I are going to do for the program. Notre Dame is going to become a power in volley­ball in the midwest." 
Though this may seem to be little more than optimism run wild at this point, the coaching talent is there, as are some skilled players, with some more on the way. After considering this, there seems to be no harm in a little optimism for the future. 

Busch 6.99 
LP 

Little Kings 34.99 
%bbl 
Hamms 25.99 
1f2bbl 
200 N. MAIN ELKHART 295-6310 
254 DIXIEWAY NORTH ROSELAND 
272-2522 
1910 LINCDLNWAY EAST SO. BEND 233-8430 
Hamms Light  5.29  
Budweiser '/:1:.:::.: Michetoo Light '':bbl  32.99 36.99  

1621 SO. BEND AVE. SO. BEND 233-4603 
tion, a Superintendent Certificate 
Prices good at 
We accept checks

SOCIE1Y~
and a Guidance Certificate at Ball 
State University. 

i South Bend Ave. Store ONiY 
with N.D. I.D.j
Concerning his first year coaching 


~c:tcJIC3L~----------------------------------Th•~----y•,N-o_v_e_m_b_er_2_9_,_19_8_4_-_P_~~e-l_S 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Tank McNamara jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 



fHf: L-00~ a:r::r~ AI:::OGD 11-\t!;f 11-\~ ''~113JLiiY OF'JI.IE:
NeA ASA ~IN0 1(X)L
1s tlifsrA~-t. ~~ . 


The Far Side Gary Larson 

Campus 
•12:
1 S p.m. · Lecture, "Changing Trends in Col­lective Bargaining," joseph Brennan, President of the Bituminous Coal Operators' Association, Hayes Healy Board Room, Sponsored by College of Busi­ness Administration 

•4 
p.m.· Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Spin Statistical Factors in Diffusion Controlled Reac­tions," Prof jack Saltiel, Florida State University, Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory. 

•4:10 
p.m.· Presentation, "Conducting Your Job Search," For All Interested Economics Seniors and juniors, Room 103 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 

•4: 
IS p.m. -Lecture, "New Directions in Indus­trial Relations," joseph Brennan, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Business Ad­ministration. 

•4:30 
p.m. · Lecture, "l.eukoregulin and Direct Acting And-Cancer Lymphokines," Dr. Charles Evans , Tumor Biology Division, National Cancer Institute, Room 127 Nieuwland. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meedng, Student Liaison Committee, Adminsitration Level of the Snite Museum, Sponsored by Student Liaison Committee. 

•7 
p.m. · FUm , "Carmen," Carroll Hall -SMC, Sponsored by SMC Spanish Club. 

•7 
p.m. · lbursday Night FUm Series, "Lost Boundaries", O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7 
p.m.· Basketball, NO Men vs. Northwestern, ACCArena. 

•7 
p.m.-FUm, "Arthur," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, SI.50. 

•7 
p.m. -Meedng, Opportunities Available for Minority Students Interested in Law, Granville Cleveland, NO Law School, 121 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Notre Dame Pre Law Society. 

•7 
p.m.· PubUcation Party, for the Juniper Press bookHorse Died! Need Rtde to Boston, P. W. Party Room. Refreshments will be served. 

•8 
p.m.· Movie, "Who's Afraid ofVirginia Woolf?" Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board, Free. 


TV Tonight 
9:00p.m.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon & Simon  
28  Football  -Washington at Minnesota  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Night Court  
10:00 p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
34  Masterpiece Theatre  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
34  Movie ·jamaica Inn  
11:30p.m.  16  TonightShow  


37 Before drop 48 -En·lal 
or fall 49 Fictional Jane 43 Panel 51 Oberlin locus 44 Literary Jaffe 52 Met attraction 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 31 Ooze 59 Long series of 12 Realtor's paper 
45 Self·aggran· 53 Exploited
32 Hall of Farner woes 14 Overcharge 
dlzlng 54 Lava maker 
1 Fad Edd 60 Hot place 17 Article 
46 Collect 56 Neat's·foot ­
5 Icelandic epic 33 Neckplece 61 Chop follower 18 "-talk of 
47 Elects 57 Whale school 
62 Actress Sue the town" 34 Body work of 63 Max Ernst's 
9 Roman poet 
13 Likeness a type14 Word with well school Wednesday's Solution
22 Domino dots38 Corrodeor way 24 Cummerbund39 Soup spoon 25 "Borstal Boy" 40 To-(exactly) DOWN 

..
15 Conifer author
41 Chemical

16 Geology or 26 Philippine
suffix 

astronomy 1 Shreds Island 19 Salt source 2 Hurt
42 Garlands 

20 Data holders 3 Prado hanging 
43 Pipe type 27 Voting site 21 Part of 14A 4 Navy man: abbr. 

45 First name In 28 Cool off 5 Day's march films 29 Pollster Elmo 6 Valley22 Coamo super· 46 Thug 30 Comic Danny star, once 47 Vast expanse 

31 "Graf-" 
23 Thesaaly 50 Kathy or Lloyd 7 Debauched mountain 8 Band of sparks 
25 Dirigible's 52 Pending 9 "Tosca" e.g. 32 With brilliance 
cousin 55 Body builder 10 Twiner 35 Big Ten 27 Town chart of a type 11 Peruvian grldders 28 Biblical craft 58 Peaks ruler once 36 Fr. city 


Engineering auditorium 
$1.50 
TONIGHT 

THE meeting place for seniors 
NOV 29
Th 
$1°0 IMPORTNIGHT 
NOV 30 

F 
2 valid I.D.'s 
so~ BEERS 'til Midnight 
required

Come early and beat the clock 


Notre Dame looking for revenge as Northwestern Wildcats visit ACC 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will be looking for revenge tonight when the Wildcats _of Northwestern University visit the ACC for a 7:00 clash. Northwestern has defeated the Irish each of the past two seasons· last year in a 40-36 overtime contest in EvanstQO, Ill., and the year before in a 71-57 opening-round NIT game. 
Seventh-year Northwestern coach Rich Falk hopes to see more balanced scoring and continued strong defensive play from his Wildcats as they visit the ACC for the first time since a 101-57 Irish win four years ago. Falk has 12 lettermen returning from last year's 12-15 team. 
In order to beat Northwestern, Digger Phelps' squad will have to stop 6-10 senior forward Andre Goode, the Wildcats' leading scorer among returnees, who averaged 
10.8 points per game last season. Goode also was Northwestern's top rebounder with 5.7 per contest. 
Joining Goode in the 'Cats frontcourt will be 6-9 senior for­ward John Peterson and 7-0 senior center Colin Murray. The first man off the bench is another seven­footer, junior center Brian Pitts. 
In the backcourt for Northwes­tern are 6-1 sophomore point guard Shawn Watts, who led the team in assists last year with 98, and 6-2 sophomore off guard Elliot Fullen. 
Men's swimming team opens '84 season Friday 
By MIKE SZ\'MANSKI 
Sports Writer 

As the Notre Dame men's swim­ming team opens its season with the Notre Dame Relays Friday at 7 p.m. at Rockne Memorial, Coach Dennis Stark will begin to rebuild a compet­itive team that has lost nine seniors from last season's 7-4 club. 
"I really can't say how the season will go, considering the loss of nine seniors, including the entire free­relay team," says Stark. "It is tough to replace swimmers like Al Harding and Dan Flynn, Notre Dame's best flyer ever. This may be a rebuilding year, where we will put people where they will do the team the most good." 
The team will be led by co­captains Tim Bohdan and Brian Casey, both three-time letter win­ners. Bohdan is the varsity record­holder in the 500-yard and 1 000-yard freestyle events and swims the backstroke and freestyle relay. Casey specializes in the but­terfly events and holds the record for the 100-yard breaststroke. 
Other returning monogram win­ners include senior Paul Benz in the backstroke, senior Richard Yohon in springboard diving, junior John Cof­fey in the backstroke and middle­distance freestyle, and junior Blaise Harding in the breaststroke. Senior Mike Kennedy will dive for the Irish, and sophomore Mark Jensen will swim the sprints. 
"This year's freshman class will be counted on to contribute quickly and throughout the season," Stark says. "Until they prove themselves in 
see MEN, page 12 

The Ol>ocn>er/Pllc Photo 
junior Tracy Bennington (B) and sophomore Karen Sapp (12) both bad impressive seasons for the Notre Dame volleyball team, as Bennington led tbe team in blocks, and Sapp topped the squad in ktlls and spiking percentage. Nonetheless It was an up and down year for the team. Eric Scheuermann reviews the '84 volleyball season in bis story on page 14. 
Falk's third guard is Chris Berg, a 6-7 
sophomore who can fill in at the for­
ward position as well. 
"I like Northwestern's person­nel," says Phelps, "knowing that they beat Michigan and Indiana at home last year as well as a few other people. They have some good players that I feel can make them a strong team in the Big Ten this year. They've got Peterson, who plays very aggressively for a big man and shoots the ball very well against zones, and Andre Goode, who's as talented as any forward around ­even though they've been playing Murray or even Pitts in the inside po­sition. 
"Fullen and Watts are two pretty good guards and Berg is a pretty good shooter, so they've got some depth. The fact that they beat us the last two years has us pretty con­cerned." 
The Wildcats opened their season on a winning note Monday night, beating tiny Loras College of Dubuque, Ia., 69-50. Goode led the scoring attack with 12 points, while Peterson, Fullen and Watts netted 11 apiece. Falk was particularly pleased with the defensive play of top reserves Berg, who had a game­high five assists, and Pitts, who had two blocked shots. 

)JJ
"It was a good opener for us," said 
lbc Obocrvcr/Cbaltanya Pancbai 

Falk ofMonday's game, "because we Sophomore guard Scott Hicks, wbo scored 13 points In Notre won big, as we were supposed to. A Dame's season-opening victory against Manhattan, will be In the lot ofpeople got in the game. It was a starting lineup tonight as the Irish take on Northwestern at the boost to our morale. This set the ACC. Notre Dame bas a score to settle with tbe Wildcats, who have 
beaten them each of the past two meetings. Larry Burke previews
see WILDCATS, page 12 
the game at left. 

Notre Dame Relays tomorrow 
Women face tough competition 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
While most students will spend this weekend trying to catch their breath as they approach the last push before finals, members of the Notre Dame women's swimming team will plunge into action, kicking offthe 1984 season. 
Notre Dame's first match will start 

tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the Rockne 
Memorial Pool as the Irish welcome 
teams from Butler University, Val­
paraiso University, Xavier Univer­
sity, the University of 
Illinois-Chicago and Saint Mary's 
College to the Notre Dame Relays. 
The contest allows each of the six 
teams to see how they measure up in 
action before their seasons officially 
begin. 
"Our keenest competition will come from Illinois and Xavier," says Notre Dame .head coach Dennis Stark. 
Although the nien's team used the Relays to start their last 20 seasons, tomorrow is the first time the-wo· men's squad will sponsor the pre­season event on its own. 
"They're short and intense and they're always a lot offun," explains Stark, who coaches both the men's and the women's teams. "Everyone gets excited and gets into the spirit ofthe thing." 
Notre Dame's season officially opens here on Saturday at 11 a.m. when the Irish swim their first dual meet against a tough squad from Western Ontario University. Last season, the Canadian team soundly defeated Notre Dame by a 30-point margin and the Irish are looking to even the score. 
"They beat us handily last year," says Stark. "They've always had a good women's team." 
The Irish enter their fourth year of varsity competition as the defending champions ofthe North StafConfer­ence and the team hopes to retain its title and match last year's acheive­ments. In addition to swimming away with the conference title, the Irish compiled a 6-5 season record and smashed standing varsity records at the Midwest Inivitational Meet. 
"We want to improve what we started four years ago," says the vet­eran swim coach. "Without scholar­ships we'll do the best we can with what we've got. 
"We'll try to improve our tech­nique and our times and get as com­petetive as our skills allow." 
With nine monogram-winners returning this year, Stark has a solid base leading the team. Stabilizing Stark's foundation of swimmers are team co-captains Venette Cochiolo and Joanne Pearl. Each swimmer holds impressive varsity records and adds consistant leadership to the relay teams. 
While junior distance-swimmer Joan Burke and senior diver Mary Amico will not rejoin the Irish line­up until next semester, the team will adequately compensate for their ab­sences. In Amico's place, Stark ex­pects junior Colleen Ambrose, who sat out last season after transferring from Saint Mary's College, and fresh­
man Andrea Bonny to share diving 
responsibilities. 
"I am looking forward to return­
ing to the team, but I think this is the 
best diving team ever," notes Amico. 
"They're looking good and they're 
see WOMEN, page 12 
Pinkett wins second straight MVP award 
By TIIERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
Allen Pinkett repeated as the winner of the MVP award from the Notre Dame National Monogram Club to headline the awards pre­sented at the 65th annual Notre Dame Football Banquet last night. 
Seniors Mark Bavaro and Mike Gann took the honors as the out­
standing offensive and defensive players, respectively. John Carney 
was named the outstanding specialty team player. 
Four seniors -Pinkett, Tim Scannell, Mike Larkin and Tony Fur­
janie · were elected by their teammates to serve as captains for the 
198 5 Irish football team. 
Head Coach Gerry Faust introduced the graduating seniors and 
announced the winners of the 57 monograms awarded. "This team, 
when most people had given up on them, had not given up on them­
selves," Faust noted. "They have a lot to be proud of, and they're are a 
lot ofpeople who are proud of them." 
Greg Dingens, a junior pre-med major, received the Notre Dame Club ofSt.Joe Valley Scholar-Athlete award. Don Criqui, most known for his role as an NBC sportscaster, served as toastmaster for the program. 

j 
L____ 






