Bookstore liability-page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 123 the independent student m:wspapt-r sen·ing notrt dame and saint mary·~· 
FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1984 


~·Manatt speaks to delegates; Convention addresses ERA, abortion and nuclear issues 
ByMARYJACOBY economic policies that made blacks News Staff "targeted for abuse" as examples. Blacks have a 1 7 percent unemploy­Democratic National Chairman ment rate and 35 percent of them Charles Manatt and University Presi­live below the poverty level, he said. dent Father Theodore Hesburgh The main difference between the spoke last night at the second ses­parties, Manatt concluded, involves sion of the Notre Dame Mock Con­attitudes toward achieving world 
vention. Rep. Lindy Boggs, D-La, peace. He stated that Democrats who was de-layed until late, also believe "arms alone will not insure spoke. safety,"but that peace depends on a 
Manatt's talk centered on sound economy, prosperous, criticism of Republican policies and powerful allies, social justice, and . the Republican National Conven­skillful diplomacy. The Reagan ad­
tion. He began with a joke about Notre Dame being "free from Republican blarney," and continued with a comparison between the two parties. 

Charles Manatt, chairman of the Democratic Na· Theodore Hesburgh, University president. Delegates In contrast to the Republican con­tiona/ Party, speaks to a packed Stepan Center at last also voted on a number ofadditional amendments to vention, which Manatt said would nighfs Mock Convention. Otherguests at the Conven­the Constitution. Stories on this page. be held in a "Soviet style," the tion included Ohio Rep. Lindy Boggs, and Father Democratic convention's delegates ministration, Manatt said, has failed 
would be at least 50 percent women in all the above respects and has and 30 percent minorities. "All pushed the Soviets to increase arms people will always be welcome in production. the Democratic party," Manatt said. Hesburgh also addressed the issue



Seniors choose Fellow on Monday; 
The key differences between the of world peace in his speech about parties, Manatt continued, can be the nuclear issue. Calling nuclear seen in areas ofeconomic and social arms "the biggest issue facing

Augustine still absent from ballot 
justice and policies concerning the America," Hesburgh then outlined 
safety of the world. Economically, the proposed platform of the By JOHN NEBLO needed, the candidate with the most as a member ofthe University Board Manatt attacked the Reagan ad­Democratic party on nuclear ques­StaffReporter votes will be offered the award. No ofTrustees since 1970. ministration's trillion dollar debt, tions. 
write-in votes will be accepted. SisterJane Pitz, C.SJ.: Sister Pitz is which he said would endanger the The platform, which has not yet 
Harold B. Augustine's name will a former rectress of Walsh Hall and future stabilityofthe economy. Also, been released publicly, was praised not be on the ballot when seniors The Senior Fellow Committee has has been assistant director of Manatt criticized supply side by Hesburgh as "all inclusive" and vote for their Senior Fellow Monday, made available to The Observer the Campus Ministry for 11 years. She economics, which he said "punished one that "goes far beyond the April 9, according to Senior Fellow following candidate biographies to has been involved in marriage single head of household women, freeze." The first priority of a Committee Chairman MikeJames. facilitate student evaluation of the preparation counseling, student minorities, and lower income Democratic president would be to 
James met with senior class of­candidates: retreats, and has coordinated the families." "prevent nuclear war and reverse ficers and the senior advisory coun­MaryAnn Roemer: coordinatorof liturgy at Sacred Heart for the last 7 The Reagan administration, the arms race." cil to discuss Augustine's candidacy special events and concerts, assis­years. Pitz is a former recipient of Manatt continued, has neglected the The platform further explained this week and said, "We have tant director of Holy Cross As­the Pop Farley award and is current-area ofsocial justice. He cited the ad­Democratic ideas on handling received their complete support for sociates. Roemer initiated the Social ministration's opposition of the 
see FELLOW, page 6 see MOCK, page 4 
our decision making prerogatives." Justice Film Series, the Neighbor­Equal Rights Amendment and 
James maintains that Augustine hood Roots Program and is involved was never taken off the ballot but in student retreats. She encourages rather, ''He did not meet all of the students to participate in the lay­

Mock Convention delegates debate 
qualifications, as explained already ministry of the Church and appeals ... and therefore was never on the to the social conscience of the in­ballot." dividual. 

several controversial amendments 
Balloting stations will be at North Father Thomas Blantz, C.S.C.: and South Dining Halls and the · Rector of Zahm Hall from 1967-By MIRIAM Hll..L proposed a Constitutional amend­ocates of this amendment stated a LaFortune Student Center from 1970, vice president for student af­News Staff ment to outlaw abortion, except in flat-rate tax system would simplify 12:00-1:30 p.m. and from 5:00-6:30 · fairs from 1970-1972, University the case of rape or incest. Many of taxes and ease the burden of taxes p.m.; senior identification will be re­archivist from 1970-1972. Father After much debate, the Notre the amendment's supporters for the poor, while opponents quired. lfless than 51 percent ofthe Blantz has been a professor in the Dame Mock Convention delegates believed forcing women to have debated such a system would hurt class votes, the 1984 Senior Fellow History Department since 1968 and voted last night on several con­children conceived by rape or incest the middle class while helping the will not be awarded. An absolute has served as its chairman since troversial amendments to their con­placed too much emotional and psy­rich. The delegates voted to defeat majority of the vote will not be 1980. Father Blantz has also served stitution. chological strain on the mother. the amendment. 


Driver sentenced yesterday in last year's hit and run 
By SARAH HAMD..TON each count of driving under the News Editor influence of alcohol, which will be served concurrently. He was 
The man convicted in the Sept. sentenced to a third year in 26, 1982 hit-and-run accident prison for leaving the scene of involving Notre Dame students the accident, but Beamer Kerin Mannion and Elizabeth suspended six months of that Mcinerny was sentenced yester­sentence under the premise the day. Judge George Beamer ofthe convicted will participate in a South Bend Superior Court sen­rehabilitation program for those tenced Russ Micinski to two and six months. a halfyears in prison, a S600 fme Micinski will begin serving and six months in a rehabilitation time April 16 unless he can post program. $30,000 in securities or S3,000. 
Micinski was convicted in He has 60 days to appeal the February on two counts of court's decision, which he plans driving under the influence ofal­to do. cohol, causing bodily harm, and Originally there were no leads leaving the scene ofa personal in­in this case; however, a call jury accident. Micinski received through Crimestoppers led to a two-year prison sentence for Micinski's arrest in August i98~: 
One of the most heated debates concerned the proposed amend­ment on the death penalty which read,"When a victim's right to life is violated by an individual, who is then found guilty of that crime in a court of law, the individual forfeits his right to life for the safety of the community and the attainment of justice." 
Those who supported the amend­ment pointed out it costs taxpayers $22,000 to support a man in prison for one year. The delegates opposing the amendment argued those who favor the death penalty are no better than the person who committed the crime and only God should decide whether a person should live or die. Lyons freshman Patricia Warth said Notre Dame should "follow the ex­ample of our Pope who is able to forgive the attempt on his own life." The delegates supported this and voted to defeat the amendment on the death penalty. 
The second ~ebate of the t;vening centered 01,1 ail amen<Jfllent ,which 
Several of the amendment's op­ponents contended that a Constitu­tional amendment would not stop abortion, but would only force people to obtain illegal abortions in unsanitary conditions. These op­ponents recommended government agencies be established to en­courage women to carry their preg­nancies to full term. Although the delegates voted that abortions should be allowed in the case ofrape or incest, the amendment was defeated because the delegates did not agree the Constitution should be amended to outlaw abortion except in the case ofrape or incest. 
An amendment affirming the Equal Rights Amendment easily passed after supporters argued that sex discrimination is commonplace in our society and women must no longer be viewed as second-class citizens. 
The fourth proposed amendment suggested "a sweeping tax reform which would establish a flat-rate ta.." .of 10 percent for air people." Adv-
An amendment supporting military aid to Central American countries threatened by a Com­munist takeover sparked a great deal ofcontroversy among the delegates. Supporters of the amendment stressed the importance of keeping democratic governments in Central American countries. Opponents suggested that by supporting ter­rorist governments, the amendment took a stand against human rights. The delegates defeated the amend­
ment. 
The last four amendments to the platform were voted on without debate. Delegates passed an amend­ment proposing the Salt II treaty be re-sent to the U.S. Senate for ratifica­tion. A proposal to set a national drinking age of 21 was resoundingly defeated. The delegates voted to support an amendment opposing prayer in public schools. And an amendment encouraging the use of fission nuclear reactors to decrease American dependence on foreign oil was defeated by the delegates. 

'' 
r 
The Observer 


In Brief ·· 
A Fulbright Fellowship award ha:; bee,, 
preselllc.:d to Ethan Haimo, associate professor of music at Notre.: Dame. llaimo will spend the 198-l-HS academic year as a senior scholar ami visiting professor of music at Bar-llan University in Is­rad. In Israel he will lecture on the music ofArnold Schoenberg and the theories that have bet·n developed in response to this music. He has also been invited to speak at Tel-Aviv University and the Rubin Acatkmy of Music in Jerusalem. A goal of the Fulbright program is to increase mutual understanding between peoples of different countrit:s. -The Ohsen,er 
The Sorin Society has a new chairman. He is Donald R Keough, president and chief operating oflker of The Coca-Cola Company. A trustee of Notre Dame, Keough heads the nearly 800­mc.:mber organization to encourage unrestricted giving to the Uni­versity. lie is the parent ofthree Notre Dame graduates and has a son 
and a daughter currently attending. Keough assumed the Sorin Socit:ty chair at a rt•cent weekend meeting of the group on campus. Sorin Sodcty members contribute: a minimum $1000 in un­restricted funds annually to Notre: Dame:. -The Observer 
Hijackers seized control of a Saudi jctliner ycs­terday and forced it to land in Istanbul, Turkcy, the statc-run mcdia reportcd. Sccurity forccs stormed the plane, capturing the: hijackers in an opl·ration that wounded scveral people:, official sources said. Tht· identities of the wounded wcre not immediately known. The sources, who spoke on the condition that they not be identified, said the: opt-ration to retake the plane lasted seven minutes. The semi­official Anatolia news agency said the plane was diverted to Yesilk~y Airport during a flight from Jidda, Saudi Arabia, to the Syrian capital of Damascus. It was not known how many people were ahoard the plane. -AI' 
The use oflethalnerve gasmay be in the works 
as Iraq preparcs to fcnd off Iranian attacks in the Persian gulf. even as the Reagan administration presses for a worldwide ban on chemical wt·apons, ll.S. officials said yesterday. The "bold American initiative" that President Reagan promised in his news conference Wednesday night will be a proposed trcaty which would permit Soviet inspec­tion of t l.S. chcmical wt·apons stocks and sites if the Soviets allow similar t I.S. searches. The proposal will be offered within two weeks by Vice l'rt·sident George Bush at the 40-nation Committee on Dis­armament, a llnitt·d Nations group that has heen trying for years to draft a new anti-t·hemical warfare treaty. The Soviets have proposed banning chemical weapons in Europe. -AP 
The U.S. Senate, for the third time in two days, today snmled a Democratic move to end or restrict U.S. aid to rebels who arc fighting tht: lcft-wing government of Nicaragua. By a vote of S1­44, the lawmakers rejn·ted a proposal by Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., to pr~·v~·nt spending money to help those whose stated purpose is to overthrow a government recognized by tht· United States. The amt·ndment was offered for a bill containing $61.7 million in emer­gency military aid for El Salvador and S21 million to assist the Nicaraguan guerrillas. -AP 
Of Interest . · ~· 
The MBA Case Competition, hosted by the 
Notre Dame (iraduate Business School, begins Sunday. Student t~·ams representing Ohio State, the llniversity of Illinois, the I lniver­sity of Missouri and Notre Dame will preparc a case in business policy to be judged hy a panel representing both business and acatkmia. The competition will run through Tuesday in the Center for Continuing Education. -The Ohsen•er 
Beaux Arts Ball is back. Thc costume ball hosted by the architecture students will be tonight in the South Dining Hall. Music will be provided by The Dummy Club. Tickets for this event will be sold at the dining halls all day today and in the architecture building office. Tickets can also bc obtained at the door the night of the Ball -The Obsen,er 

Weather ' 
There'S Still hope! Partly sun­ny today, but windy and cool. High around SO. Clear and cold tonight. Low around 30. Mostly sunny and warmt·r tomorrow. High in low 60s. -AP 

The Observer 
The Oh•erver ( 1·~PS ~·N l-·1000) is puhli~hn.l :\1om.la) throul(h hida~ Jnd on home..· fuothall ~aiUrday!t. t:'Xet·pt durin~ c..·xam Jnc.l vac..·ation pc..·riod!'> The Observer i~ puhll!t>ht·d hy rhc..· stuJc..·nt,of tlw I ni\'t.:r..,ity of Nturc..· Dame: and ~ainl Maq ·~ ( .ollc..·~c..·. ~uh,c.. nptton.!t m:1y he purchaM:d for Sl'S per ) ear t sIc; pc..·r ~t·mc..·stc..·r) hy wrilin~ The Observer, P ( > Box<). Notre..· llanll'.lndiana ·16'S'S6 
Th~ Observer i' J m<·mh<:r ofThe As­sociated Press. All rt·produc..·uon nghl"' an· rt·-,c..·n·t·d. 
Production Consultant... .... Steve: Fostt·r Desigrl Editor......................... Chris Howler /Jeslgu .4sslsltln/ ............... Dorothy Doran f.t~vout Staff................... Tammy ~·oodruff T)'pesel/ers .................................... Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner Nt,u•s J:.'dltor ............................ Tc..-ss Guarino CopJ•I:'dltor........................... Mart· Ramire? Sports Copy Etlitor.....................jdf lllumh Vleu•polm Ltlyout ........ Mike McCaughey Fetllures CoP.J' Editor .............. Mary tkaly h'alur<'S Lll)'out........................ Mary tlealy N/J Oay Editor........ ...........Jdftlarringlon SMC OaJ• Editor... ...... Maggie O'Connl'il Ad Dt•.<lgn ....... .. ...... Boh Slota Pb,;,fn8rapber.... .................1....... Pete Lal·he.~ 
Friday, Apri16, 1984-page 2 


Great John Cavanaugh: A man worth remembering 
Back when there was no Hesburgh, the name Cavanaugh meant the same thing. 
As the ninth president ofNotre Dame, FatherJohn W. Cavanaugh walked across his campus as if he owned it. He was, say some Notre Dame historians, the most im­pressive leader of the University since Father Edward 
Sorin: firm, striking, innovative, and bold. 
Cavanaugh's tenure from I90S to 1919 is exceeded· 
only by Sorin and Hesburgh, and during that time, 
Cavanaugh gave Notre Dame a facclift from a tight little 
prep school to an impressive national university. He 
was a tall man, with charm and courage, whose large 
handshake would crush those who greeted him. 
Cavanaugh -like Hesburgh -was inclined to be dictatorial, something of a one-man show, but he got things done. Academically, he made Notre Dame re­spcctablc; it would be left to Hesburgh to make it pres­tigious. In 1908, the undergraduate and graduate enrollment passed 1,000, and a rapid flux of faculty members followed. 
Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Friday 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:; 

time football coach." A full-time coach, Jesse Harper, 
was hired three years later, and a tradition was born. 
In 1919, Cavanaugh was forced to retire his position, 
which at that time also included duties as Local Supe­
rior. The new Code of Canon Law decreed that super­
iors could lierve no more than six years. (Consequently, 
the presidents between Cavanaugh and Hesburgh have 
served abbreviated terms, including Hesburgh's im­
mediate predecessor, another John Cavanaugh. Upon 
taking office, Hesburgh ended the president's duties as 
superior.) 

Among them: Julius Ar­There is no doubt that 
thur Nicuwland, a premier Great John Cavanaugh chemist who invented moved this school forward "Lewisite," the most deadly by quantum leaps. Indeed, gas used in World War I, and much of what Hesburgh has developed the base from accomplished would hav~ which synthetic rubber been impossible if there would come. While the never was a Cavanaugh to American Chemistry Society manifest a higher vision of applauded Nicuwland for Notre Dame. his dedication, Notre Dame, This is brought up be­with its constant demand for cause Hesburgh and com­money, was hardly disin­pany have still not dccided terested. Royalties on the the name of the area stu­
chemist's patents were paid dents are calling "the place: to the University. whcre the fieldhouse used 
Early on, Cavanaugh was to be." forced to deal with Darwin's One of Cavanaugh's first new ideas about man's his­activities was to pay respect tory. His solution: whatever to this school's founder: the 

proved scientifically valuable in the theory ofevolution was perfectly reconciliable with Catholic doctrine, and would be taught at Notre Dame. Other fundamentalist colleges denounced the decision. 
Cavanaugh also established a program in mining and chemical engineering, a move that insured Notre Dame's commitment to science and engineering as well as the arts. It was, however, the arts where Cavanaugh excelled. Those who knew him say he was the best writer and best speaker ever to walk along the south bend of the St. Joseph River. 
It was this charisma that probably aided Cavanaugh in his mission to lift Notre Dame to national prominence. In his first sermon as president, Cavanaugh said the Uni­versity would always be committed to educating young Catholic men superbly, despite the size of the endow­ment. But perhaps the move that had the most surpris­ing effect on the University was Cavanaugh's appointment of an Irishman named McGiew as "part­heroic statue ofSorin was erected on the Main Quad at a cost of $2';,000 -an enormous sum for the early I 900s. Hesburgh, however, has established no lasting memorial for his great predecessor. (Cavanaugh Hall was built and named about I S years before Hesburgh ). 
To name the new mini-quad Cavanaugh Mall would be an appropriate move by Hesburgh. In his constant push toward the future, 1-Iesburgh -nor anyone else ­should not forget the man of the past who helped make modern Notre Dame possible. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

The Observer 
Friday, April 6, 1984 -page 3 

Dining Hall trash bins hoped to spark attention 
ByMARK POTIER Mary's. The World Hunger Coali­CopvEditor tion will hold an open forum for questions and discussion Sunday at 8 
If those clear bins full of wasted p.m. in the Center for Social Con­food in front of the Notre Dame and cerns. A discussion will also be held Saint Mary's dining halls caught your the same night at 8 at Saint Man·'s on attention yesterday. they served the third floor ofthe Haggar C~llege their purpose, according to Mark Center. Storen, a member ofthe Notre Dame Bill Hickey. director of Notre World Hunger Coalition. "The bins Dame Food Services. said he was are just basically there to get ftrst contacted about putting wasted people's attention ... hopefully the food in front of the dining halls last sheets we handed out will really semester by Storen. He said, "At first reach them." I was concerned it would offend 
The project, sponsored by the people, but the more I thought Saint Mary's Social Action Club and about it, the more I agreed with the the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame project." World Hunger Coalition, was Hickey said, "I feel that it is im­designed to point out to students perative the dining halls remain non­how much food is wasted and to get political because the students come people to change their eating habits. here to cat." He continued. "In this Barbara ter Haar. a Saint Mary's So­case because of the tremendous cial Action Club member, said the waste and the concern in the Univer­idea for the project came up after sity we felt it was a cause we could the World Hunger Coalitions support by allowing them to use the published results ofa food waste sur­dining halls as a vehicle, if they could vey last semester. A follow-up do it without offending anyone." showed no change had occurred in According to Hickey wasted food the amount offood being wasted. in the dining hall is ftrst separated 
The Coalition then decided some­from other trash, then put into bar­WGN-TVstudios in Chicago. Bozo, played by Bob Bell, thing was needed to bring people's rels and refrigerated. The waste is is retiring after amusing two generations ofchildren attention to the problem. Storen given away to a farmer from Michi­with his daytime show since 1961. said, "It (the bin project) is more ofa gan who comes to pick it up several shock treatment, and hopefully it times a week. The farmer feeds it to will make a lasting impression on his pigs. people of how much food is really Students' reactions to the bins full 
wasted." of food waste seems to have been 
The World Hunger Coalition mixed. john Drew, a freshman from counted all the food wasted during Pangborn, said, "I agree with their all three meals on March 28. They ideas -no one is for world hunger 
Little sisters to experience college 

during weekend at Saint Mary's 
found 128 gallons of food is wasted -but I don't agree with their met­per day. All the food wasted during hods. It's kind ofgrotesque."
ByJENNIFER BIGOTI responses, so we're really pleased." Diane Cancro, a McCandless Wednesday's dinner was collected Pat Beaudine, a sophmore said,StaffReporter Scheduled events include a pizza freshman, adds "My little sister and I by members of the Coalition, as was "The bin was disgusting but it did
party, a Mass, tours ofthe campus, an are really looking forward to the food wasted from yesterday's lunch make a point. They do have a
Students at Saint Mary's will have ice cream social, a picnic, and rol­weekend. It's a great opportunity for the opportunity to give their little lerskating. According to Jones, this us to spend time together, since I and dinner. Volunteers also passed legitimate complaint because there sisters a taste of college life during year's Weekend is very similiar to don't get to see her very often. It 
out sheets with facts on world hun­is food being wasted, but their met­ger and food waste at Notre Dame, as hods are what I object to." He con­
Saint Mary's annual Big Sister/Little last year's, the only notable dif­should be a lot of fun." well as suggestions on how to tinued, "If it gets people to stop
Sister Weekend, which begins today. ference being that the activities will Registration for the weekend will reduce food waste. The sheets also wasting food then it's good;
Several events geared toward all be paid for in a package deal instead be in the Haggar Center from 3-5 ages have been planned, according included arguments against food however, I do have a negative reac­
ofindividually. 
to Marti jones, chairperson for the Overall, students seem very op­see SISTERS page 5 waste at Notre Dame and Saint tion to it." 
event, who has been organizing the timistic about the weekend. "I can't Weekend since before spring break. wait ... I think it's a good idea that 

Bookstore minor injuries prompt
Approximately 68 people are ex­they have it (the weekend) so that pected for all the activities this the little sisters can come up," com­weekend, and several more will be mented Holy Cross resident Ann attending events individually, she Clark. "We live here more than we 

new liability waiver to participate
added. "I'm hoping it will be a big do at home. It's nice that the little By KEITH HARRISON,JR. don't believe there will be any proof of personal insurance at
success. We'vc got a lot of sisters can sec how we live." StaffReporter problems getting the forms signed." registration. This plan was rejected. 
The waivers are a response to in­"Since all 512 teams must register at For the ftrst time ever, Bookstore juries which occur during one time, and since teams may add Basketball players will be required Bookstore competition. "Each year, to their roster during the tourna­
frorb1~sl 
~r•••• Friday Special 
to sign a liability waiver in order to there are a few broken bones and ment, checking every student's in­
participate in the tournament this other minor injuries," said Blumb. surance card is very impractical," year. "Also, last year someone seriously said McDonnell. 
Mixed drinks 2 for 1 
Drafts ... e.50 The waiver "essentially says that cut themselves on an exposed screw The second plan called for blanket the player will not hold the Univer­ofa basketball pole." insurance for the entire tourney. sity responsible for any injuries the Blumb does not believe there is "But the additional costs would have player suffers during the tourna­anything unusual about the yearly doubled the entrance fee for the ment," said Bookstore Commis­injuries in the tournament. "You teams, and the commissioners didn't sionerJeff Blum b. All players will be have to remember," Blumb said, "in want that," McDonnell said. asked to sign a waiver form before the ftrst round alone, you have col­each game. lege students playing 2';6 games of Therefore, the liability waiver When asked whether students basketball. You're bound to run into remained as the only feasible choice. refusing to sign the waiver would some injuries." The waiver concept is not new to become ineligible for play, Student Three options were considered Notre Lr.tme intramural activities. Activities Director James McDon­for dealing with University liability, All non-varsity athletic particpants nell said, "I really don't know." according to McDonnell. must sign a similar consent form. In However, Bookstore Commissioner The ftrst plan would have re­addition, all must have personal in­Emeritus Dave Dziedzic said, "I quired all players to show some surance. 


Need for added activity funds suggests a new fee raise of $5 
By DAN McCULLOUGH ing the money will still be mission to study the alcohol N':wsEditor maintained. 80 percent will go for problem. why not the social student activities and the remaining problem?" he asked. 
Citing a need for increased 20 percent will go to clubs and Student Body President Rob Ber­revenue for student activities, an classes. tino, also a committee member. said eight-member student government "Basically we think this is fair. he saw the proposed increase as a committee voted last night to raise What we're stressing is that the partial solution to campus problems. the student activity fee from $30 to majority of the fee will go for special "One of the problems with the cur­S35 per year. events and increased social aware­rent activity fee is that it is too dorm­
From_ this committee, formed to ness," Broussard continued. related. An increase to the student specifically look into the student ac­"But this increase will not solve all activities fee will initialize more in­tivity fee question, the proposal now ofthe problems," he added. "What is teraction between dorms," he said. must pass the student senate and the needed is a million dollars or more." The proposal passed the commit­Campus Life Council before it can be Broussard called for a commission tee 7-1. The only dissenting vote enacted. to be formed by the University to came from committee member 
Committee chairman Lee Brous­look further into the question. "If Javier Oliva, also a senator for the sard said the Eur-rent ratio for-divid-the administration can set up a com-ftfth district. 


The Observer ]'
Friday, April6, 1984-page 4 
Student ID cards to be permanent starting with the fall semester 
ByJANE KRAVCIK 
Slt!ffReporter 
l'ermanl·nt identification cards and an incrcaS<.· in thl· chargt· for transcript~ arc two changes recently madl· by llnivcrsity Registrar Daniel Winkur. 

The new ilkntilkation cards will lastli>r tht· duration ofa student's en­rollment at Notre Dame. They will lx· the same as tht· prcst·nt l.D. cx­n·pt they will he validated hy being embossed with the year li>r which they arc used. The hirthdatc will also ht· diminatt·d from tht· nt·w I. D. 
All rt·turning students will have their photogr;tphs takt·n during pre­registration this year and will receive the m·w J.D. at rt·gistration next fall. 
According to Winkur, there arc many reason~ for this change. "One of thl· thing~ that rt:ally hkw me away when I came here was that you had to wait in line so long at registra­tion. In order to avoid lines, we dt:ddt·d to get permanent I. D.'s." 
I k also said cost was a factor in the decision. "We'll he decreasing the number of peopk getting I.D.'s each year from 9,400 to 2,400." The cost ofthe new I. D. is the same as the present J.D. both in original cost to the student and in its replacement cost. 
A final factor involved in the deci­sion was that present !.D.'s aren't valid li>r those graduate sttu.knts who rt·main on campus during the ~ummcr. 
Winkur also explainnl why the birthdatt· on tht· 1.1>. is heing 
Mock 
continuedfrom page I 
nudcar situations. It proposed among other thing!> to halt the: tes­ting of nuckar warht·ads and anti­~atdlitc weapons "a.~ long as the Soviet~ do tht• sanll·." Also, the plat­form would not allow for tht: tlrsl ust· of nuckar weapons hy the l lnitnl Statl·~. and call~ for ll.S.­Sovkt arms nq,:otiations. Till· long­
tt·rm goal aims at world peace. 
Ikshurgh said cn·ativt· ways must he found to gel conllil'ling countrit·~ to hclll'r umkr,tand each otlll'r. lie condudnl hb di~cussion of till' mKkar issue by saying "If we don't _,oln· it, it \\ill end 11.' all." 
CANCER. 
NOT KNOWING 
THE 
RISKS IS YOUR 
GREATEST RISK. 
A lot of people think cancer is unbeatable. 
Timt simply isn't true. In fact, over two million fll't>ple have had cancer and survtved to lead happy, normal hVI..'S. 
And not only can canu:r be beaten, it can also be prevented. 
There arc definite precautions that have been pmvcn to decrease your risk of-getting u:rtain cancers. 
Ask your local American Cancer Society to send you a free lxx1klct alxlllt cancer risks. 
Lcam the facts alxlllt cancer. And make not know­ing the risks, on.: les.-; risk. 
I~
tSOCETY• 
flo" )UJ ilvc Jna) "'V( )Olr life. 

diminatcd. "Each year we replace 
I';()() I. D.'s, some of which are really 
lost. llowcvcr, tht·re is a traffic in I.D. 
cards. Students will sell their I. D. bc­
caust· they arc over 21 to younger 
students and then come in and say 
tht·y lost them. We're eliminating 
the hirthdate in order to avoid this." 
Winkur added tht• probkm of students entering Senior Bar when their J.D. does not show their hirthdate has been anticipated and solved. The bar will he: using the magnetic strip on the hack ofthe J.D. in a way similar to the dining halls. lie said, "In the: computer there can be information on birthdates. There will he better control of the J.D. card." 
Other campus organizations arc alS<) considering using the magnetic strip to store information. "There is a possibility of increasing its use in such places a~ thl· bookstore, laundry, ticket oftlcc and library," Winicur said. 
Another change made by the registrar's office is increasing the cost of each transcript from $1 to $2 
tween $2-3 each, hut that doesn't 
include postage or paper," he said. 
The reason the first transcript is no longer free is mainly because of the bookkeeping involved. Said Winicur,"lt's too difficult to keep track if it is their tlrst request. Frank­ly, I didn't think the $.2 would matter that much, especially since they are a.o;king for so many." 
Those affected by the increase are mostly seniors, alumni, and under­graduates who are required to provide transcripts to student loan agencies and Reserve Officer Train­ing Corp. 
Obtaining a transcript can still be: done by completing the correct form in the registrar's office. The transcript will then be mailed within one and a half to seven days. 
During the peak period in january, it may take seven days for the registrar to mail the transcript. According to Winicur, "that's one of the reasons we asked for the in­crease -to hire additional staff to hdp us process transcript requests in really busy periods." 
as of April I. This new rate also applies to the first transcript ob­tained hy a student. The first 

Buy
transcript was formerly free. 
Observer 

Winkur explained the increase 
classifieds

hy saying, "We've been charging $1 for .2'i years. The cost ofhandling has gone up. With an inflation rate of seven percent each year since then, the cost would have been $';." 
The S2 will still not cover the c:nt ire cost of filling a transcript re­qucsr. "I would guess that it costs he-
Bids are still on 
Fri., April 6 is last day for Tuxes and Second City tickets. Sun., April 8 is last day for making seating arrangements. 
rJ' Don't miss out on the biggest event of 
the year! 
We offer outstanding opportunities to College Graduates as College Representatives 
Temtones Include· 
MIDWEST AREA & OTHER TERRITORIES NATIONWIDE 
Prent1ce-Hall has the most dynamiC record of any publisher in the world. To a carefully selected group of Individuals, 11 offers un1que challenge. satisfaction and f1nanc1al rewards as College Represen­tatives to promote our textbooks to colleges and un1vers1t1es. and locate and develop manuscnpts for publication. 
Great care IS taken 1n the selection of people and 111 their sub­sequent tra1111ng because it IS Irom them that we develop our future execut1ves 
We seek unusual intelligence and amb1t1on the capacity for hard work creative 1mag1nat1on and strong intellectual cunos1ty an ability to commun1cate effectively w1th people w:th varied Interests a sincere 1nterest in books and 111 the 1deas they conta1n po1se. forcefulness persuasive talent. 
We offer salary, expenses. excellent bonus opportunity parti-Cipation 1n a profit sharing plan constant intellectual s1tmulat1on and challenge the opportulll!y to actively participate 111 and con­tnbute to th1s dynamic, expanding and changing educational in­dustry unliml!ed opportunity for personal growth and future advancement. 
Send resume to: Mr. Steven Tyrlver National Recruitment Manager 
Prentice-Hall, Inc. Route9W Englewood Cliffs, NJ 07632 
PRENTICE-HALL,Inc. 

Facing the elderly 
Democraticpresidential hopeful Gary; Hart sfJeaks to an elderly woman during a campaign stop at the St. Anne's Senior Center in Philadelphia Wednesday. Hart's short claim tofront-runnerstatus may have ended with Walter Mondale's victory in New York, but mdny Mondale supporters are still wary of the Hart effect on voters. 
JUNIORS 
SENIOR TRIP DEADLINE DEPOSITS DUE FRIDAY, APRIL 6 
Sign-ups in front of Student Activities Office in LaFortune: 
11:00 am to 1:00pm and 6:30 to 7:30 pm Monday thru Friday 
Media Studies 
Film and Video Studies 
Dept of Communication & Theatre Advising for all majors and prospective majors will be available as follows: Monday April 9th Tuesday, April 10th Wednesday, April11 th Between the hours of 9:00-12:00 and 1 :00-5:00 All majors shou!d make appointments with their 
aavisors during this period! Following advising, all current and new majors may pick up checkmarked cards in the departmentai offic'9s, The Loft, O'Shaughnessy 
The ObServer Friday, April 6, 1984 -page 5 

The Space Shuttle Challenger sits on Pad 39A at the Kennedy Space Center Wednesday awaiting today's scheduled launch. In foreground are cactus in bloom. 
Dine at the best! America's Finest, Lee's BBQ Where good friends eat and new friends meet 1132 S. Bend Ave. Mon-Wed 4·9:30 pm Thurs-Sat 4-1:00 
oO~ 'l--~~ DePaul University 
~0~  Review Course for the  
0~  November, 1984  
_....\t-"r:J  CPA EXAMINATION  
~0~'  (June 13-0ctober 28)  

The 57th DePaul University CPA Review is now accepting applica­tions for the Summer. 1984, Review. The Review features live class­room instruction. an all-CPA/all-professor faculty, two convenient locations and session options, and special repeat tuitions. The last 56 reviews maintained: 
*70% or over pass/condition rate 

*over 85 medals and awards (statewide and nationwide) NO review can match the coverage, the instruction, the faculty and the experience of the DePaul CPA Review Course. For information 
call (312) 321-8640.  
LOOP  SUBURBAN  
DePaul Univ!lrsity,  MeDonalds Hamburger University  
25 E. Jackson Blvd.  2715 Jorie Blvd.  
(Wabash & Jackson)  (York & Cermak)  
Chicago  Oak Brook  
Monday, Wednesday,  
Friday, 6-9 p.m.  
Tuesday, Thursday, 6-9 p.m.  
Saturday, 9-12 Noon  

School of Accountancy  Please Check:  
DePaul University  D Loop  
25 East Jackson Boulevard  D Oak Brook  
Chicago, Illinois 60604  

Please send me a brochure and application form for the DePaul University CPA Review Course. Name ________________________________________ 
Address-------------------------------------­City __________________State ______ Zip ____·-­
~DePaul University 
School of Accountancy 
Space Shuttle Challenger prepares to begin new space flight today; on mission to fix broken satellite 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) NASA began the countdown Wed­nesday for the I Ith shuttle flight, and officials said a storm that forced five astronauts to scrub jet training exercises did not appear to threaten Friday's launch of Challenger on a satellite-repair mission. 
The crew remained in their quar­ters studying the complex flight plan that will send a free-flying astronaut to capture a wobbly, slightly spin­ning payload 305 miles up in space. 
Meanwhile. India's first spaceman and two Soviet colleagues success­fully docked a Soyuz spacecraft with the orbiting Salyut 7 space station, already occupied by three cos­monauts. 
When Challenger soars into orbit, there will be II men in space, break­ing the record of eight set in February when five Americans and three Soviets were aloft at the same time. 
A thunderstorm with winds, rain and lightning pelted the launch area shortly before the countdown began at 3 a.m. Wednesday, and rain con· tinucd most of the day, with more than 2 inches recorded. 
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration said. the weather had no impact on the count because the early hours primarily in­volve remote systems checks per­formed at the control center three miles from the launch pad. 

Commanding the flight is space veteran Robert Crippen, who will become the first person to fly three 'huttle missions. The other crew­men, all space rookies, arc pilot Dick 
Scobee  and  m•sswn  specialists  
George Nelson. James  van  Hoftcn  
and Terry Hart.  

Challenger is to return to Earth next Thursday after six days in orbit, landing at.Cape Canaveral. 
Notre Dame civil defense system includes list of campus shelters 
By MIKE KRISKO 
StaffReporter 
There is much talk today about the possibility of nuclear war, and the subject has many worried. Yet most people at Notre Dame, ifasked, would have little idea what woul~ happen here in the event of a nuclear catastrophe. 
Director of Security Glenn Terry said he knows there is a University plan in which Notre Dame works along with the county civil defense program. "We have a working agree­ment with the county," Terry said. Terry believed the plan would be similar to a tornado warning as described in Du Lac or the phone book. 
The St. Joseph County Director of Civil Defense, Don German, ex­plained that since the role of civil defense is to help others in time of need, the public doesn't think about it until a particular situation arises. "People don't realize there's been lots of planning done without their knowing it. Until the time comes, we don't ask for help or talk shop. Ifyou start talking about the atomic bomb, you send the public into a tither. They don't want to listen to some· thing bad. 
"Notre Dame is included in our county-wide evil defense plan. Depending on the details ofa hypot­hetical fallout situation, we would probably move everyone into shel­ters. Ifwe opted to do this, the civil 

AnENTION JUNIORS 
Today is the last day to pick up applications in the Student Activities Office for: 
Seniqr Advisqry Cquncil Cqmmissiqns and Cqmmittee Chairmen Applications are due by 5:00p.m. in the Student Activities Office (1st floor LaFortune) 
' . '), :-' 
~······························' 
'·l•••~~~~~~~~~~~~:.~~~~~~:.J 
: AHention all juniors interestedi in bartending during the  i:  
:  1984-1985 school year:  :  
• fii  . SEl ~ ·'toW 8.\nR  i• fi  
•:  Applications for bartenders at the  •:  
•  Alumni Senior Club are now  •  
:  available at Student Activities.  :  
•  •  •  

defense office would radio ND security telling them what to do," said German. 
Notre Dame has the capacity to house 43,570 people in their fallout shelters, German said. The civil defense office lists the campus shel­ters as including the dining halls, the library, the infirmary, the Rockne Memorial, the ACC, the Snite Museum, Breen·Phillips, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Farley, Fisher, Flanner, Grace, Howard, Keenan, Lewis, Mor· rissey, Pangborn, Stanford, and Zahm Halls, as well as the Math­Computer, Law, Art, Architecture, Engineering and Biology buildings. 
Food was stored in shelters using federal government money aut· horized by the 1950 Civil Defense Act. As the program stands today, however, food would have to be brought into the shelters from local stores and government warehouses. 
Many people have no idea as to what they would do ifthey knew the area soon would be under seige. Senior Frank Creed resolved to "dig the deepest hole l could and pray like hell." Flanner Freshman Don Urgo. said "I had never thought about what I would do. I'd probably just sit right here and watch the fireworks." Sophomore Geoff Westrich said ''I'd just take a lawn chair, a six pack ofcold brew. and an umbrella and just watch everyone go nuts." 
According to the public affairs of­ficer at the Defense Nuclear Agency in Washington D.C., Lt. Col. William KellarJr., "The situation may or may not be bleak. Based on any hypot­hetical attack, the amount ofdamage done would depend on three things --the type of detonation, the size yield ofthe weapon, and the climatic conditions." 
If Chicago or St. Louis were to receive a direct hit, the fallout might affect the South Bend area, depend· ing on the three forementioned fac· tors. 
Sister 
continuedfrom page 3 
p.m. today. Tonight a pizza party and pool hours will be featured along with "The Muppet Movie." 
Tomorrow, sisters can attend an admissions presentation and go on a tour of the campus ftom 9:30 to I0 
a.m. A picnic on the soccer green at 
II:45 will be followed by outdoor rollerskating (weather permitting). Sisters can challenge sisters in aerobics and volleyball in the Angela Athletic Facility from 2-3 p.m. Tomorrow night, "Stripes" will be shown in Carroll Hall followed by an lee Cream Social in the Haggar Cen­ter Chameleon Room from '-9. 
The weekend will wrap up on Sunday with breakfast at Saga and Mass at I 1:30 a.m. in Regina Hall. 
The Observer Friday, April 6, 1984 -page 6 
School prayer issue debated; moment of silence opposed 

Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. -School prayl'f advocates and foes agreed yeMcrday that they werr against allowing a period of silent prayer in clas~rooms hcc:ause it st·t a had pnTnknt. 
In a dchatc sponson·d hy the In· diana llniversity !Inion Board, area religious kader~ anlllnlliana llnivt:r· sity proti:!>!>ors said an officially spon~ort·d "nwmcnt of silenct·" during the .~chool day would dcfcat both lhdr purposes. 
Monday tht· l'.S. Suprcmc ( :ourt agrtTd to con!>itkr wht·ther a period of ~ill-nt prayn or meditation in the das!>room was pt·rmissihlc. 

At kast 2~ 'tales havc c:nctnl ht\\~ authorit.ing or rcquiring daily momt'llls of silcncc in puhl ic: ,,chools, according 10 a survey Ia~ I lkn·mhc:r hy thc li.S. Justice lkpartmcnt. 
But Frank Simmons, st·crc:tary· trcasurc:r of thc Moral Majority of Kc:ntut·ky, saill hc is Vt'f}' much opposcll to the: momcnt ofsih:ncc. 
"Tht· right of silence: is a shallow right. Wt· alrt·ady have: the: right to be :o.ilent. This l!'> a poor precedent to t·stahlish," he: said. 

Jim At· kerman, a professor of rc:ligious studies at Indiana llnivc:r· sity, said allowing a momcnt of silc:nce would have: many of the dan· gcrs of officially sponsored school prayer. 
"It is the foot in the door that would break the: separation that is <:rudal to American society," Acker­man said. 
The debaters, who spoke hcfore more than I00 people, differed on cvery otht·r point. 
Simmons, a mc:dical Joctor, saill recc:nt American history shows sockty has hc:c:n adversely aftcctc:d by the 196~ Supn:mt· Court dcci· sion that rulcd any form of praycr, recitation or Bihlc rt·ading in the classroom unt·on~titutional. 
"In the la~t 20 year~. wt· have tkvdopnl tht: drug probkm, the VD ( vcnneal dist·ast·) prohh:m \X'hen I was in mnlical school, you' nc:vcr 
hctnl about  V()  or tt-cn-age  preg­ 
nancit-~.  
Ackerman  ~aid  tlm~c  idea~  

rdkctcd a "naive point of view." 

Fellow 
continuedfrom page 1 
ly the rtTtr~-~~ of (iran· O'llara graduate housing. 
Proji•ssor Ken .l1ihmi: assistant d1airman of the accounting dt·part­mcnt. advisor li>r St·nior Bar and I'd· lowship .>fChristian Athkt~·s; Milani runs till' tax assistance program in whit"h many ~nliors ;rn· involved and has prt·~entcd Pre-Cana program~ li1r m:~ny engaged couples on campus. 
IJr. Kathleen Weigert: Weigt·rt was tht· assistant dean of the: College of Arts and Letters from 1979-19H~ and advisor to students in ALPP, AI.PA, and AI.IEG. She is presently the assistant director li>r social analysis at the Ccntt:r for Social Con· n·rns and a protessor in tht· American Studies department. 
Father Edu•anl Mal/(~}', C.S.C.: 

Malloy is a theology professor anll dirt-ctor of tht: Mastc:rs of Divinity Program since 1976. Malloy has hn·n associatt· provost sinn: 19H2. 
Father Mario Pedi, O.S.R.: Pedi is the rector of St. Edward's llall and class advisor to the sophomore and junior classes. Pedi also served as ad· visor for Junior Parents Wcekenll and was assistant director for stu­llt·nt activities from J97H-19H~. 
William ]. Hickey: director of llnivnsity Food Services since 19H2. 
joseph Gatto: Gatto has been an assistant proks..~or of modern and 
• · das.~kallan!tuagcs-for 20.years. This is hh.last year at Notre Dame. 
lie said hc karell the proposed Constitutional amendment the St:nate dctcated last month would cau~e religious persecution in American classrooms. 
"We can always say to children, 'You can go out in th<: hall while we gooll li>lks stay in h<:re anll pray.' Of course, it's rcally cool for a 7-year· olll to kavc," Ackerman said. 
Ackerman, a fathn of four and an ordainc:d Protestant dcrb'}'man. said he is against school pray<:r even though his religious philosophy 
would  probably  he  taught  in  the  
classroom.  
"I  don't  want  my  kids  to  ex­ 

perientT the persecution of other kid~." he said. 
But Simmons said the proposed amt·ndmt·nt would not aff<:ct children as much as past Supreme Court decisions. "In 1962, the Supreme Court said, 'We an: all going to stop prayer hecaust: there might he one atheist in here who might ht· emharassed.' Then they said, 'Now we: are going to start com­pulsory sex education,' but when a little girl raises her hand anll says. 'Teacher, that emharrasses me,' the Supreme Court says in t:ffect, 'Shut your mouth and take it."' 
In 1962, the Supreme Court ruled that prayer composed by state c:ducation otlkials could not be recitcd in public school classrooms. In 1963, tbe court saill any form of prayer or Bibk reading in clas­srooms was unconstitutional. 
"See the double standard?" Sim­mons asked. 
"The prayer amendment doesn't change the Constitution, it puts frredom of prayer back in the Con­stitution," Simmons saill. 
As horrifiedfellow strikers look on, a striking hotel u•orker in Las Vegas was run over by a car trying to enterCaesarsPalace on theLas Vegas Strip. The striker, 
jim Turner, was listed in stable condition with a 




free... 
DOMINO'S PIZZA ... 
AND 2 FREE COKES 
* WITH OUR 3-0AY MOVIE PACKAGE 3-DAY MOVIE PACKAGE s24gs
RENT A VIDEO OISC PLAYER OR VIDEO FOR 3 
TAPE RECORDER ANO 3 MOVIES ... ONLY FULL OAYS 
At\il WE'LL GIVE YOU ACOUPOM FOR AFREE DOMINO'S PIZZA & 2 COKES! 
ICAriiEO WSfT11 PlAYEI 
RENTAL SLIGHTLY 


HIGHER 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS ~ AVAILABLE PLUS .,..._,_ ~ 100's OF MOVIES ~~ 
ALL LATEST 
DIRECT 
.SALES 
COMICS 

also hard to find back issues AVAILABLE THURSDAY AT 6:00P.M.. 234-1038 
~JU\l!q)~JUll
STORE 
1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND. 234-1031 

O,..:--..fllwtl.le.J.Fri.le..,S.t.H 
!(low open Sunday 12·7 ----.~ 


"a chance to be for something instead of against" 
GARYI-IART 
We need your help in Indiana! To volunteer, call: 
P. Bender  232-6835  K.  Grant  239-7694  
J. Jaspers  283-3377  W. O'Neil  233-3014  
''A  NEW  GENERATION  OF  LEADERSHIP"  



KAYPRO II COMPUTER Comes Standard With 64K of Memory Two Disk Drives 
9" Green Screen 
DETROIT 
CHICAGO 

ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS·, FRANKFURT AND NICE. REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS: 
• Free deluxe motorcoach from Luxembourg to select cities in Germany, Belgium and Holland. • Bargain train fares to Switzerland and France. • Super Saver car rentals from $69/week in Luxembourg. • Free wine with dinner, cognac after. Super APEX Fares. May !-June 9. 19!!4. 7-60 day slay, 14 day advance purchase reqmred. .Icelandalr to Luxembourg. Luxalf connecting service to other destinations. Purchase tickets 
m U.S. All fares subjecl to change and government approval. See your travel agent or call !400/555·1212 lor the toU-!ree lcelanda1r numbt.·r in your area. 
i~!.'JBf= 

~i~~~_()__i_Il__t___________________F_rid~~-,A~pri-16-,l-98_4_p-ag~e7 
Moving toward the future heading backwards 
How do we know Wyoming really exists? 

by Randy Fahs 
Moving Into the Future by Headirzg Backwards 
It seems that every Notre Dame alumnus looks back with fondness on his days under 
RandyFahs 
Friday analysis 
the Golden Dome. They love to tell stories about their personal experiences and what it used to be like when they were here. The tales about mandatory attendance at mass and lights out at IIPM make us laugh about how cloistered and conservative Notre Dame used to be. 
Things have changed a great deal since the days when this place was a combination foot­ball factory and monastery. Attitudes have become more liberal and the reputation and atmosphere have been greatly altered. 
These changes are largely due to the efforts of one man, Father Theodore Hesburgh. His career at Notre Dame is drawing to a close, although not as rapidly as mine. 
Lately, the liberal trends have been reversed and there has been a defmite tighten­ing of control. As a senior I find that a great many traditions which existed when I arrived here have been extinguished. It's almost like Notre Dame is trying to freeze itself in time before Father Ted leaves so that this place will remain fairly unchanged in the future. 
It seems odd to me that the person who brought about the liberal changes at Notre Dame, which have helped to make it the fine university that it is today, is presently leading us on a more regressive path. 
When I talked to some of the freshmen and sophomores about my experiences at their stage ofmy undergraduate career, I found that I'm like an old alumnus in that I was discussing activities which no longer take place. This began to bother me, so I sat down and made a list ofa few campus activities which have gone out of existence. It was an exercise which I can only describe as depressing. 
In the area ofsocial activities, campus wide events have suffered heavy casualties. Gone are the Irish Wake and the Polish Wedding. The Senior Death March is also no more and now even the Beaux Arts Ball seems to be destined to become another punch and cookies affair. 
Anything even remotely associated with the consumption ofalcohol presents itselfas a lucrative target for the administration's right wing social death squads. All we can do now is wait for Father Beauchamp's committee to release its report on changes in the campus alcohol policy -it could prove to be the most damaging blow to social life yet delivered. 
The administration has also worked to un­dercut the non-alcohol related activities. They are discouraging the Panty Raid as being juvenile and out of line with Christian moral ethics. I will grant that its maturity level is questionable, but so what? The Panty Raid is the type of pressure release which helps to make the transition to college life a little smoother. 
Another event which has been torpedoed, but which hasn't sunk is Mardi Gras. The un­doing ofthis much awaited winter event is not due to the administration, but rather to the bishop who decided that gambling, even ifthe proceeds go to charity, should not be allowed. 
Recent Mardi Gras organizers have worked hard to bring the event back to prominence, but its popularity is merely a fraction of what it once was when each dorm built a booth in Stepan Center. 
One move which caused quite a stir this year, but whose real implications will surface in the future is the act ofbringing the Observer under the thumb of the university's Budget Unit Control System. When you give control of a a newspaper's finances to someone, you also give them ultimate authority as to what gets printed. 
I guess that the present situation is better than selling the paper to Rupert Murdoch, but I bet he would at least put the guidelines ofthe working relationship in writing. 
I do not want to bemoan the present state of our football and basketball teams as both seem to be showing signs ofimprovements. It does seem a shame though that we are no longer allowed to go onto the field or pass girls up in 
the stands at football games. The loss of the 
latter tradition is due to the obvious safety 
questions, but the end of the former seems to 
do little more than put a damper on the spirit 
of the crowd. 
Oh well, it could be worse. they could make us stay home and watch games on TV because we make too much noise (besides, they could double the price of student tickets and sell them to the public so as to make more money). 
While we are on the topic of sports and money, I think the plight of the Hockey Program (or lack thereof) should be men­tioned. After dropping them to club status be­cause they lost too much money, FatherJoyce and company are now going to bring them to Division I without scholarships. 
I said all along in my columns last year that all they really wanted to do is strip the program of its scholarships. After two years without recruiting and with no scholarships, the Hockey program will be about as com­petitive as the Chicago Cubs would be if they were transferred into the National Hockey League. 
After all that has been shot down around here during the last four years, I shudder to think about what the future holds. Hopefully some brash young priest will come along once again and reshape the lhiversity in a more liberal and progressive mold. Also, hopefully he'll have the good sense to retire early. 
Is Gary Hart a candidate ofnew ideas or just a candidate with resurrected old ideas? Has Walter Mondale sold out to special interest groups? What is a person to believe? 
It seems that it is getting harder and harder 
Mark Boennighausen 
Gravity is a myth 
to believe anything these days. We were first told, after Hart's upset victory in the New 
Hampshire primary, that he was the candidate of the future. CBS news ran stories comparing him to John F. Kennedy. Now, he has no "beef." Things change so quickly that before a decision can be made there is no longer a question. 
Much of the difficulty in knowing what to believe comes from the quick pace of today's society. Information is produced, analyzed and changed before anyone can digest it. No longer is there time to debate an issue and find out all the facts and then decide -all a person has to grab on~o is fleeting images. 
The problem of what to believe is not limited to politics. Everything moves so fast these days that we tend to just accept things, rather then believe them. Take a look around at the normal events ofa day. 
At the dining halls a poster proclaims a new special dinner: "A Hoosier Festival." Personal­ly, I can't believe such a thing as a Hoosier Festival exists, let alone that I am going to have the pleasure of experiencing one. I will, ofcourse, accept it because I am conditioned to (and I can't afford to eat off-campus.) 
This example may seem a bit trivial, but a look at what one truly believes and what one just accepts may be startling. A government professor once told me that he didn't believe Wyoming existed. He said he had never met anyone from the state, flown over it, or been to it. 
In fact, he said, Wyoming was a myth. Of course he also thought the only thing west of the Hudson River was Dayton, Ohio -but then again how many people really believe Wyoming exists? 
Part of why it is so difficult to believe any­thing these days is that there is no one to trust. Dan Rather, even with a sweater, is not someone to put complete faith in. Anyone who interrogates people the way he did on segments of 60 Minutes seems to lack some trustworthiness. Whatever happened to avun­cular Walter Cronkite? With his baritone 


'\; ~ LAD\t"~ 1\Nt> GE~'TLEMEN, l Gl'JE '/OU THE" NE~i PRES\DENT OF 1HE UNllED STA1t:S, \-I~ROL.D B. AUGUSTINE".'' 
-~ 
.... 

voice and craggy features Uncle Walter was someone you could trust. 
It is now the fashion for presidents to lie to us, or at least now we find out about it. In newspapers some reporters frabricate stories or, in many instances, embellish them a little to fit their viewpoint. At Notre Dame, changes such as the alcohol policy stay "secret" until, in most cases, rumors are confirmed. 
Indeed, a lot of the apparent cynicism around campus can probably be traced to a lack of anything to believe in. The idealism of the 60 s has been replaced by the acceptance ofthe way things are in the 80s. 
But what should be done? After all, there are jobs to get, tests to study for and more special dinners to attend. Philosophy majors would undoubtedly suggest that the question of whether to believe or not should be based on a rational weighing of all the available evidence. What is needed is for people to make time to gather such evidence instead of just going along for the ride. 
Big Brother, in 1984, claimed that "ignorance is strength" and apathetic accep­tance is too close to ignorance for comfort. Uncle Walter isn't doing the evening news anymore and I hope we can get i;!long without him. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller . ............... Maripat Horne The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor ........ Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the admir.istration of eithW institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsi'!'jned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor . ........... Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Coiumn space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor . . . . . . Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966 

community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy is encouraged. 
Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 
.,.._ ... za-I II azi 
. --r . . •

------------------ll"''~··· ~ ·~·-·-..~-------­
. I l. ,' t -. I '-~ I t 1 l .. \. • ' 60_' I ' 

Showcase 
Friday, April 6, 1984 -page 8 
Louie's Fa01ily Restaurant ­enticing pasta and old world char01 
1963, it was run out ofa house 
which stood where Pandora's Book
by Rob Bayne 
B
Store stands today. The RappeIIi s ­features staffwriter Louie, his wife Carmela and their two daughters -lived on the di>rc: Nickk's, before And on Friday and Saturday nights, second floor and ran the n·staurant Bridget's, bcfi1re Corby's ... unless you didn't mind waiting in on the first floor. there was Louie's. line for half an hour, forget it. "There was just one room for cus­
For I'; yt.·ars until I<J7H, Louie's "It wa~ worse than Corby's is tomers then -the dining room," Family Restaurant, which has today -lines sometimes ran all the says Rappdli. "Customers coming recently reopened after a tlve-year way down the block," recalls Louie into the place for the first time 
break, was for those of the Notre RappeIIi, the white-haired owner would think they had just walked in­
Dame and Saint Mary's pt.•rsuasion and chefwho loves nothing better to someone's home -which they 
the most popular hangout in town. than to talk ofpast glories. had. It was our restaurant but also 
lkcaust· of the quality ofits atmos­"Everyone used to come here -our home, which made people feel 
phere and tiJOd -pizza and pasta very ... at home."
students, professors, and success. The kids would come here primarily -Louie's could draw a townspeople." Good food served in a domestic not just to eat and drink but also to crowd almost any night of the week. When Louie's first opened in 
setting brought in the business for see Louie and me. Today, we get a lot Louie's. In fact, the clientelegrew so ofChristmas cards from former stu­fast in the tlrst year that the Rappel­dents who haven't forgotten us." 
li's decided to move out of their Louie Rappelli's delightful sense little house and into a real restaurant ofhumor and Carmela's Old World building on the corner of Notre charm won them a lot ofattention in 
Dame and South Bend Avenues. the old days. And today they keep a 
There they adopted a standard setup scrapbook containing several ar­
ofbooths, tables, and a bar to ac­ticles about them and their res­
comodate the large crowds that taurant that appeared in The 
began showing up at the door. But Observer and Scholastic during the they did not change their menu of 60's and 70's. Also among the scraps traditional Italian food and pizza, nor are photographs ofcelebrities and their friendly approach to doing politicians -Dustin Hoffman and business. 
Sen. Edmond Muskie to name just 
"We spent a lot of time with our two -who ate at Louie's when they customers, getting to know them by were in town. Ofcourse, there are name," says Carmela Rappelli. "And also l 00 or so autographed photos that, I think, had a lot to do with our ofNotre Dame football stars who 
hung out at Louie's over the years. 
The Rappe!lis closed the res­taurant in I978 and leased the build­ing to the proprietors oflrish Country. Irish Country operated as a bar for four years until going under a couple ofyears ago. Last year, the R:ippellis decided they would redecorate the place and go back in­to business. Louie's Family Res­taurant finally reopened last summer after a five year hiatus. But so far business ha'i not been good. 
"I knew we wouldn't pick up where we left offbut I didn't expect it to be this bad," says Rappelli. "If business doesn't pick up soon, I don't know how long we can stay open." 
On weekends these days, Louie's is lucky to get a handful ofcus­tomers. And on weeknights, the place is always empty -a drastic change for a restaurant once as popular as Corby's. But some things never change and today great food 


A lesson in lively introductions 

served in friendly surroundings can 
still be had at Louie's. To those ofyou who enjoy Italian foo.d: give Louie's a try before it's too late. The pizza can hold its own with the best ofthcm, but the real stand­out is the Louie's pasta ­the mos­taccioli with sausage or meatballs in particular. The sauce and sausage used for the pasta and the pizza are both products ofa long standing Rappelli family recipe. Both arc ex­quisite. Italian bread is included in the price of the meal and, yes, beer as well ao; a good selection ofltalian wines are available (Ifyou're 21 that is). As the closest restaurant to campus and the tlve points bars (Louie's is still at the cornerofNotre Dame and South Bend Aves., 100 feet from Notre Dame Apartments and a two minute walk from Corby's). Louie's should not be allowed --either out ofignorance or negle ·t ­to simply die. Carmela Rappclli. at any rate, is hopeful that it won't. ''I'm not worried too much about it," she says. "We're like a great old movie actor: we've been off the screen for awhile but we still got our stuff. We just have to be patient until we're rediscovered." Louie's is currently open Tuesday through Saturday from 5 p.m. to 12 a.m. Call233-4044 for additional details. Movies So01e hu01or 1(  
by John t features stafJ  
Quick quiz: What is the single essential element offilm comedy? The answer is, ofcourse,laughter. There's nothing very sophisticated about the question, but amazingly there are people in the smoggy hills of Hollywood who would probably have difficulty answering it correct­!y. lj When a producer, director and major movie studio collaborate to make a motion picture, they usually know whether it will be a rip-roaring comedy, a tearjerker or a mushy love story. Apparently Pato Guzman, Paul Mazursky, and Columbia Pictures were a little confused about exactly what type offilm "Moscow on the Hudson" should be. Yes, it is supposed to be a comedy, but unfor­tunately for the audience it doesn't come offthat way. After a promising first 30 minutes or so, the humor in "Moscow on the Hudson" fades fast. The comedy of the situation, in which Vladimir Ivanhoff, a Russian clarinet player adroitly played by Robin Williams, defects to the good old decadent U.S.A. in very decadent Bloomingdale's in ultra-decadent New York City, docs not la~t throughout the film.  

by Leo D. Cook 
features columnist 
H
ow many Notn: Dame men have valiantly trkd to introduce themsdves to prospc:ctivt.· victims of romanu:, only to fall flat on their bees? What dn·p fundamental prohlc:m lies at the root of tlwse mbnabk lailur~·s' 
The answer is simpk: a lack ofinteresting opening lines. lkre is a perfect example of a li:ehlc attt:mpt which might be overheard anytime of the day or night: 
(iuy: "llrnm, gt.T, what's your major?" 
( ial: "Forensic medicine." 

<iuy: "Oh, rt.·ally' My major is economics." 
( Long silence) 

(ial: "Wdl, nice mn·ting you. I've got to go." 
With a lame introduction like that, he'd be lucky ifshe attt:nded 
Mass with him. One has to he dynamic, imaginative and diabolically hrillant. Listed bdow arc some valuable: lines. which promise to provoke cithn a grt.·;u convnsation or a slap in the face. 
l'or the person who likes to impress: 
"Sa)', I wonder if Liz Taylor is ever going to return my bathrobe?" 
"Ifgold got·s up just two points more. I'll be worth over 114 mil­lion." "I plan on having the greatest impact on society sin(·ejesus Christ." For the romantic: "Would you likt.· to come over to my place for some government surplus cht.Tse by candlelight?" 
"Ha~ anyone ever told you that you look like a kumquat?" "Has your complexion always been that bad?" For the sports enthusiast: "I just started training for the '84 Summer Olympics. Wanna help me by timing my laps?' "Did you ever play football? You've got the shoulders for a great left tackle." ''I'm on full scholarship because I play intramural volleyball." For the intellectual: 
"What is your opinion ofbread?" 
"I tlnd Russian farm machinery fascinating, don't you?" 
"Ifour noses were upside down, we would drown." 
"Could I borrow your calculator sometime?" For those who are offthe wall: "Did you hear Mayor McCheese from McDonald Land is being held for S I 0,000 ransom?" 
"I spent eight years of my lift.· in a shoe box ..." 
" I had brain surgery on the Ieli side of my head. Now the doctors say I will never kill again." For the hunter: "How many road kills do you have?" "My twelve gauge shotgun is jammed. Can you fix it?" "So, how many felonies have you committed?" For the pacifist: "Ifthe United Statesever invades Greenland, I'm gonna dodge the draft and go to Canada" "My roommate wants to nuke the whales." "My roommate wants to nukeJane Fonda." "What do you think about burnt toast?" 
The script seems to be the major culprit here. It does not treat two es­sential elements ofthe plot with the 
,-----------------------------------­
I 
I 
-I I 

Showcase Friday, April 6, 1984 -page 9 
Letters to a lonely God 
Jack the Tripper 
how humble, was humming for him, and spinningoffcolors, like the light
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 

H
and sound show ofa juke box. Jack went around wanting to hug the e was a football player built ways a mellow guy, but his friends world close, as though trees, win-like one ofthe foothills of the said later he smoked every day. He dow displays, and Hondas were Himalayas. He would have been an would show up that way for saving the last waltz for him. all-American in his senior year, only practice, and he wasn't much use to A young giant weighing close to his coach wasn't interested in letting the team, though maybe the coach three hundred pounds can't go 
him play. The reason the coach kept didn't know why. around randomly touching other him on the bench was that he had Jack complained the coach was people's property in hotels, super-gotten into the lifestyle ofa hippie. trying to make him conform: "He markets, and department stores, just He was big, good-natured, and keeps me from playing because I to feel the divine energy running likeable; and in his second semester don't fit the Notre Dame image." He through creation. He can't play as a junior, he picked "I gotta be me" couldn't be persuaded that he was Nature Boy, takingoffhis clothes on as his theme song. Macho little guys hurting himself. He got into a pat-a golfcourse to experience the sun, were always picking arguments, he tern ofcutting classes, cursing the like the approving smile ofGod, on used to complain, to prove to their coaches, and feeling sorry for him-his back. Ifhe does, the police arrest girlfriends they were better men self. His friends kept sympathizing him for disturbing the peace. The jail than the football player. Jack, be­with hifll as a victim ofdiscrimina-decides he'd be better off in a hospi­cause he was such a hulk, had to let tion. Even an old grad, suffering from tal. Jack's friends, who loved him so them win. "IfI laid a finger on them alienation, got into the act onJack's much, weren't the ones calling his in selfdefense I could kill them with­side. "Look at what they're doing to a parents, breaking the bad news that out meaning to," Jack said modestly,. star. They're punishing him for the prize quarterback was under to­"because I am that strong." daring to be different from the clean-tal restraint in the bed of a psych­
He was a fine player playing under cut Catholic boys this school prefers iatric ward. His parents didn't ask: a great coach; he was a giant with the as athletes." He encouragedJack in-"Couldn't somebody have stopped mind ofa child, so gentle he could to believing he was being black-him before he hurt himself?" It make you cry at his stories. As a kid, mailed, though, as an old grad, he would have been disowning respon­he had been given a pet turtle which should have known better. sibiliry to reply: "He knew what he he took outdoors with him when he Jack, as a flower child ofhis was doing." Ifyou want badly played in the street. One day, his generation, watched his Notre enough to do your own thing, cousin, who was witless, put the Dame education go down the drain. nobody can stop you. So far as I can turtle under the wheel ofa truck. By the time he left campus in Janu-see, he's never since done anything Jack could break your heart with his ary of his last year, he had washed out with his life. story of the death ofhis turtle, be­academically. The students who cause you never expected to find a were supposed to be his friends · In deer country, they post signs heart so sensitive under all the protected him until Jack had ruined ·that say: "Deer Crossing." Still, you muscle and brawn, or tears on a face something more important to him see the dead elk on the highway. In so terrible it could have belonged to than a football career. Even his turtle country, you could post a sign: Attila the Hun. straight, clean-living friends shel­"Turtle crossing; trucks go slow." It 
As a senior, he knew he could tered him until finally, when it was wouldn't help turtles, because they have been all-American, he said, be­too late, they had to ask for help. A haven't got the ability to read. In col­cause the coach had promised as roommate reported: "Jack has been leges, signs are posted: "Rites of much, ifJack would stop doing his acting strangely." passage; be careful." This means Big thing. The coach wanted him to give Jack had been acting strangely for Brother is watching, as any freshman up the love beads and patched jeans, a week. On a trip to California, he can tell you. and get a haircut. He never told me if had taken mescaline. On the plane Students should bring notes from the coach got on his back for using ride home, he took mescaline again, home saying they are free to do their dope; smoking pot was one ofthe and he ended up with a psychotic own thing. A campus without house ways in which he felt he had to reaction. By the time I saw him, the rules is a happy campus. That's the express himself. I couldn't tell when physical world was playing his song. way it is in the real world, where he was stoned, because he was al-Every inanimate thing, no matter Jack now lives. 
t on the way fron1 Mork to Moscow 
any other immigrant he encounters becomes bored. Missing are all the the frustrations of unemployment, elements ofcomic levity the plot crime in his neighborhood, and crucially needs at this point. homesickness for his native country. Aside from the fact that the Second, Ivanoff falls in love with a producer, director, and writer were beautiful Italian immigrant who sub­a bit confused about how to define 
sequently dumps him. As Ivanoff comedy, most of the other elements 
becomes depressed, the audience of"Moscowon the Hudson" are first rate. Williams demonstrates the same acting ability he revealed in "The World According to Garp." Not only did he learn to speak nearly-fluent Russian for this film, but he also appears to have mastered the clarinet. He portrays his charac­ter with emotion and depth. Maria Conchita Alonsa also shows great talent as Williams' immigrant girlfriend Lucia Lombardo. 
Cleavant Derricks as Lionel Wit­herspoon, Williams' black sidekick and friend, displays a good sense of comic timing. The Russian winter scenes which were actually filmed in the hot summer months in Munich, West Germany are highly detailed and look authentic. 
Ifthe film is so well done, why is it so bad? Primarily because it takes its subject too seriously. 
Don't get the impression that it's a totally worthless film. It is just not particularly outstanding. Those who are diehard Williams fans, go ahead and take the $4 plunge. Those who are looking for something a little more exciting, the four big ones would be better spent on a couple of 
as Vladimir Ivanoff, the sensitive Russian circus musician who decides pitchers ofbeer at one of the local 
U.S. while visiting a Bloomingdale's store in "Moscow on the Hudson." taverns. 

• MOVIES 
"James Bond" week continues tonight and tomorrow night as "Never Say Never Again" is presented in the Engineering Auditorium. Agent 007 carries on life in the fast (and dangerous) lane in the most recentJames Bond flick starring Sean Connery. Showings are at 7, 9:15, and II:30. Admission will be $1. 
The Friday Night Film Series will present the film "Three Brothers" at 7. This 1982 dramatic essay on human values follows the story of three brothers reunited for their mother's funeral. The brothers' upward mobility is contrasted with the simple southern Italian life oftheir youth. 
The Monday Night Film Series presentations will begin at 7 with "On the Waterfront." This winner ofeight Academy Awards is a I954 classic depicting the story ofa priest who sets out to smash mob control over the New York waterfront, and ofan inarticulate longshoreman (Marlon Brando) who slowly becomes aware ofwhat he can amount to. The 9 p.m. Monday Night Italian feature will be "Lolita."James Mason, Peter Sellers and Shelley Winters star in this 1962 adaptation ofNabokov'soff-beat novel in which a middle-aged college professor becomes smitten with a preteen nymphette. 
Admission to all Film Series presentations is S2.50. They will be shown in the Annenburg Auditorium. •MUSIC 
Tomorrow night the Notre Dame Glee Club will hold their Spring Concert at 8:15 in Washington Hall. Admission to the event will be free and early seating is advised. 
Beginning at 8 tomorrow night, the Saint Mary's College Wind En­semble will perform in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall. •DANCE 
"The Beaux Arts Ball" returns for all those who missed the fall ball and for those who want to experience it again. The event will take place tonight from 9-I:30 at the South Dining Hall. Admission will be S3 for AIA-ASC members and $4 for all non-members. •MASS 
The celebrants for the masses at Sacred Heart Church for this weekend will be: 
Father Oliver Williams at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil) 
Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. 
Father Richard McBrien at I0:30 
Father Walter). Burghardt, S.). at I2: 15 (Burghardt is the recipient 
ofThe William Toohey C.S.C Award for Distinguished Catholic Preaching and is currently at Georgetown University). 
• MISCELLANEOUS The Bookstore Hall ofFame game will begin tonight at 6 p.m. on Bookstore Court Nine. 
On Sunday at 7, the "International Students Festival" will take place in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
• MOCK CONVENTION 
All delegates are reminded that nominations and balloting for a Democratic presidentialcandidate will take place tonight beginning at 7 in the Stepan Center. Representative Romano Mazzoli ofKen­tucky and State Representative William Crawford will speak at tonight's session. 
The convention will end tomorrow with the selection ofa Democratic vice-presidential nominee and an acceptance speech by the presidential nominee. Speakers tomorrow will be local congres­sional Democrat Michael Barnes andJim Ridenour, Libertarian can­didate for governor ofIndiana. Tomorrow's session will begin at I 
p.m. in Stepan Center. 

]ames Bond Week concludes this week with "Never Say Never Again" starring Sean Connery. Pictured above is "the other Bond," Roger Moore. The movie will be shown tonight and tomorrow 
night. 
Sports Briefs 
Speaking of Bookstore Basketball, Ed 
Swain will host the infamous Esophagus Constrictors tomorrow, April 7, at 4:30 p.m. on WSND-AM 64. The "Five Horsemen" will discuss their opening round game against archrival Old Men on the Block, in addition to revealing some of the more obscure scientific theories ofstrategic basketball. -The Observer 
In the law school intramural championship 
basketball game Wednesday night, BPSCR Ill rolled over Hoosiers, 61-37. Mike Kelley of BPSCR lil led all scorers with his 22 points. Steve Toohill and Jim Malloy added 12 and I 0, respectively, as BPSCR Ill won its third const•cutive law school championship. Larry Cuculic paced Hoosiers with 14 points in the losing cause. -The Obsen>er 
Stepan Centeris closed for the remainder of the semes­ter for recreational purposes. The building is reserved for the Mock Convention, Collegiate Jazz Festival, advance registration, and An­Tostal through the end ofApril. -The Obsen>er 
The Saint Mary's softball team split a 
doubleheader with Valparaiso yesterday. The Belles won the first game, 2-0, behind the pitching ofAnnie Day, who had two strikeouts and no walks. Two singles by Anne Trapp keyed the Saint Mary's attack in that game. The Belles lost the second game to the Crusaders by a 5-4 margin. Trailing in the top of the sixth in that game, Saint Mary's came back to tie the score on a single by Kris Pantelleria and doubles by Barb Theiss and Trapp. Valparaiso, however, was able to score the winning run in the bottom of the seventh. Saint Mary's is now 6-2 and plays at Earlham College tomorrow.-The Observer 
Final cheerleading tryoutswill be held tomor­row. April 7, from 6-10 p.m. The second clinic will be held today at 6 
p.m. Both sessions will be held in the ACC Pit and tomorrow's tryouts will be open to the public -The Observer 
Friday, April 6, 1984 -page 1 0 
Home quadrangular 
Men's tennis team hosts meet 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team, after defeating Bowling Green 8-1 Wednesday, hosts a quadran­gular meet this weekend with Illinois-Chicago, Indiana State, and Wisconsin-Oshkosh. 
The victory over the Falcons boosted the team's ss;ason record to 11-6, its third victory in a row and fifth ofthe last six. 
"We did some juggling of the lineup against Bowling Green," said Head Coach Tom Fallon. "Pat Shields, because of his good chal­lenge matches, played sixth singles, and Mike Gibbons moved from second singles to first. 
"Pat was bothered by some injury problems, hut if he can concentrate, he can help us. Mike is one of our most steady performers. He is con­sistent time in and time out." 
Bowling Green proved to be an easy foe for the Irish, as they swept the singles and lost only at second doubles. 
This weekend the Irish will have a tough time, playing three matches in two days. Last year, Notre Dame defeated Indiana State, 5-l, and Wisconsin-Oshkosh twice, 8-1 and 6-0. 
"Illinois-Chicago has a good coach and a couple of really good players," said Fallon, "but I don't know what to expect from them. 
"We have to play as well or better than we played against Bowling Green. We defeated both Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Indiana State last year, so if history holds up, we should be able to handle those two teams." 
The action between these four teams starts today at 3 p.m. and con­tinues tomorrow starting at 9 a.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center. 

Most important game so far 
Lacrosse team visits Ohio Wesleyan 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team, coming off its third straight win on Wednesday, travels to Delaware, Ohio, to take on the Midwest Lacrosse Association defending champion, Ohio Wesleyan, tomor­row afternoon. The game is the most important one so far this season for the Irish as Wesleyan is the favorite to repeat as MLA champion. 
Notre Dame faces an even tough­er task in that it has to play Wesleyan away from Cartier Field. Last year, the Irish benefited from a large home crowd and put up a strong fight before falling to Wesleyan, 14­
12. This year's game is the only time that the Irish have to leave home to play a tough team, as the three other major rivals -Denison, Ohio State, and Wooster College-have to visit Cartier. 
Coach Rich O'Leary would like to see his team keep the momentum that it gathered in the final quarter of Wednesday's game against a gritty Lake Forest team. The Irish took a fairly decisive 11-5 win to improve their record to 3-2, but needed a five-goal fourth quarter to break open a close game.· 
Until the final quarter, though, the Foresters gave Notre Dame all it could handle, tying the score at 3-3 and trailing by a lone goal, 6-5, at the end of the third quarter. However, goals byJoe Hart, Tim Corrigan, and Tom Grote, as well as two by Joe Franklin, ended Lake Forest's hopes for an upset. 
Once again, attackman Bob Troc­chi led the Irish offense, scoring four goals and increasing his goal total to 1 7 through five gamb. Franklin added three goals and an assist, while tri-captain Steve Pearsall, Hart, Corrigan, and Grote all contributed a goal each. Don Gayhardt chipped in three assists. 
Rob Simpson once again started in the goal for Notre Dame, stopping 1 I Forester shots before being relieved by Pat Poletti, who picked up two saves. 
After the Ohio Wesleyan game, the Irish will travel to Mt. Union Col­lege for a game Tuesday afternoon. The first Notre Dame home game of the season will be next Saturday when Wooster visits Cartier for a 
1:30 p.m. game. 

The Obsen.•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday 
through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is 1 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5 30 
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 277-6045. W/p1ck up& deliver 
WORDPROCESSING -FAST AC­CURATE WORK. 272-8827. 
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBIIIIIII 
ALABAMA TIXI!I Front row, but can't go. Call Mark 6871 
IMPORTANT!!! AIESEC--HAPPY HOUR PANGBORN ROOM 306 FRIDAY 6TH 5:0Q-7:00PM 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233· 7009. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE -287-4082 
Atten!lon -TAU BETA PI MEMBERS · Volunteers are needed to assist with Spe­cial Olympics on Sat. Apr. 14. Only 3 hrs of your 11me 15 needed Interested? Call Aga (3896) or Br1an (1470) 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST:A red wool sweater in O'Shag somet1me before break. II tound please call7101 
LOST A BLUE DOWN JACKET DURING LAST FRIDAY'S WALSH HALL PARTY BRAND NAME IS ASCENTE. CON· TAINS PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN THE POCKET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283·31 t 5 or RETURN TO 115 HO· LY CROSS HALL REWARD AND NO QUESTIONS ASKEDI 
FOUND GOLD CROSS PEN WITH WORDS ComVac" ON SIDE CALL t 866 TO CLAIM 
FOUND: GIRL'S KEY CHAIN WITH LARGE GOLD HEART. FOUND IN STEPAN CENTER SUNDAY NIGHT. 
CA,LI-f17~5: "\ ., I..·., '·' • '·'·'·I 

FOUND: A SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A SNOWBANK BEFORE BREAK I CAN'T FIGURE IT OUT, YOU TRY. HOW CAN SOMEBODY JUST LEAVE THEIR SPARE ,-IRE SITIING ON A SNOW­BANK WHEN THEY HAVE TO DRIVE HOME? If you think that the dummy might be you, call 7559. 
lost... key cha1n ·a plastic one which said chicago" on it. there were a couple keys on it... dave 3040 
LOST LEVI'S BLUE DENIM JEAN JACKET at Walsh's Hall Party last Fnday · Gumby & Poky & Pollee buttons on pocket. If found please call 283-7965 or RETURN to 400 Lyons or Lost & Found. Reward & no quest1ons asked. 
LOST· GOLD NO MEN'S RING. LOST BEFORE BREAK SOMEWHERE ON CAMPUS. IT HAS A BLUE STONE WITH NO ENGRAVED ON TOP. MY NAME AND YEAR (85) ARE ENGRAVED INSIDE. THERE IS A LARGE REWARD OFFERED FOR ITS RETURN. IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT MAY BE, PLEASE CALLJEFF O'NEILL AT 8854. 
FOUND: WOMAN'S HIGH SCHOOL RING. CLASS OF '82; NOTRE DAME HIGH SCHOOL; INmALS J.D. ORIGINALLY FOUND AT SMC ONE YEAR AGO. CALL ND ALUMNI ASSN., 
6000. 
LOST: C~izen watch w/gold case & black band on 4/4 inS Quad ST area. Call7992 after 11. 
LOST A BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE UMBRELLA WITH THE INITIALS RPM ON THE HANDLE. I REALLY NEED IT. I WOULD APRECIATE IT IF YOU WOULD CHECK YOUR UMBRELLA JUST IN CASE YOU ACCIDENTLY PICKED UP MINE IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA­TION PLEASE CALL RICH AT X8731. THANK YOU 
FOR RENT 

HOUSES. Furnished 1 m1le from campus 4-6 bedrooms. 2 baths Call277-3461 
WANTED 

Come to Boston for the summer. Couples are aeeklng mature persons to help with chlldcare and hou118hold responsibilities In exchange for room, board and $125 net weekly salary. 
Please call Kate Goldfield at 617-862­7982 or write. 283 Marrett Road, Lexi­ngton, MA 02173. 
RIDE NEEDED TO DC AREA EASTER BREAK--DOLLY 1277 EN DAD 
Need a nder to a St. Lou1s for Easter Break. Call Alan at1402. 
I need a nde to St. Louis this weekend! 1 can leave any time after 1:00 on Friday. Call Maripal at7877 or 239-7471. 
NEED 2 A1des to DC for Easter CALL 284·429114162 
Need ride D.C.(Georgetown) for Easter. Can leave Thrs. after 1 . Return Monday. Call Patrick 3263. 
WANTED: Female roommate to share one-bedroom apt. at Campus View. Call Tracy at 277-7232. 
Ride needed to Omaha for Easter lor 1 or 
2. Call SMC 4354. 
If you h.ve a personal computer and a modem, you should try our computer bul­letin board service. Several hundred users from all over Michiana and beyond to talk to and help solve your problems. For more information call Kangaroo Kon­cepts, Inc. at 277-5306 Free demonstrations available. 
TICKETS 

NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. CALL JOHN AT 1761. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELL YGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK I PH 272·1858 
THE SUNSHINE BOYS ARE COMING II 
THE WALTZ BALL IS BACKII Try out yocr soc1al dance skills from Freshman Year! Come waltz w1th Strauss and swing wtth Benny Goodman! Chautauqua, Frir1"Y mght. 8:30. 
MACRI'S DEAD!! THE DELl'S MEAT WILL BE BEAT! 
FOURTH MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED OR CAMPUS VIEW APT. IF IN· TERESTED PLEASE CONTACT BRIAN AT 1238. 
FLORIDA SLAM THANKS FOR ALL THE GREAT QUOTES. SIGNED PENROD'S NORTH. 
MEMBERS OF AMER.-LEBANESE CLUB WATCH YOUR FRIENDS DANCE THIS SUN. IN THE ISO FESTIVAL, AT 8PM 
SMC FRESHMAN Spring Dance April 14 SY (Future) Y Tickets on sale in Saga Wed-Fri 4:30-6:00 
Scavenger Hunt for ND/SMC Thursday April12 9:00-12:00 Tickets on sale Wed­Fri. in Saga 4:30-6:00. Regina Lobby 9­1Opm Cash prizes. 
Dear Carla Thanks for a great break Can't wait til summer John 
MEATPACKERS ARE REAL FAT. 
You can't beat the MEAT-PACKERS. 
EAT.EAT.EAT.MEATPACKERS. 
MEATPACKERS play Sunday noon at Stepan.Be there. 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED BY THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE MON-THUR 8-11 & FA I-SAT 8· 
1. CALL 272-4453 FOR SPEEDY SERVICEII 
ADVANCED NOTICE OF JULIE DIR'S BIRTHDAY ON SATURDAY. APRIL 7. TAKE ADVANTAGE OF IT I 
Need a place to stay this summer? Want to sublet a 2 bedroom townhouse apart­ment. 1, 2 or 3tenants. Within walking dis­tance of campus. Sem1-turnJshed. $250/month without utilities (negotiable) Call283-1479. 
Question 2 Who graduated cum laude from Harvard Law, did research work at Harvard and Pnnceton, taught at U. ot Mex1co and U. of Paris, has been an advisor to the Dept. of State, and Consultant for Dept. of Defense? 
DETROITERS: COME CELEBRATE THE OPENING OF THE TIGER'S DRIVE TOWARD THE PENNANT. HAPPY HOUR THIS FRIDAY 4:30 · 7:00 IN ALUMNI PARTY ROOM. FRIENDS WELCOME 
THANK YOU, ST JUDE 
JUNIORS:GET INVOLVED WITH THE CLASS OF 851 APPLY FOR SENIOR AD­VISORY COUNCIL COMMISSIONS AND COMMITIEE CHAIRMAN POSI­TIONS IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE BY 5:00P.M. FRIDAY. 
STRIPES SATURDAY, APRIL 7 CARROLL HALL 7, 9,11 
BEAUX ARTS BALL IS BACK­TONIGHlSouth Dining Hall to the sound of Chicagos DUMMY CLUB( one rocking, beebopping group). Tickets sold in the dining halls or in the ARCHITECTURE OFFICE TODAY!IIIIIII Another 
sterioatypical" costume ball, DONT MISS IT 
DETROIT CLUB HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 4:30-7:00 IN ALUMNI PARTY ROOI\4 
KAREN WE TOLD YOU SO 1111 THE SWIM TEAM 
BOOKSTORE ROUND 1 THE FIVE HORSEMEN ARE HIT BY BRICKS!I GOODLUCK GUYS!! 
MAHLON GEORGE also known as BOY, desires female incumbrement on the Eve ol the 20th Aniverery of the date of his Birth.(April 8) Any Interested part1es should contact Jim at I 738 to arrange for screening; before Apr. 6. Requirements are minimal-blonde. tan, blue eyes, s·s·. and exceedingly w1lhng! HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRIS · OUR FAVORITE W.A.S.P. 
TOM DONOHUE Happy 21st Watch Corbys change into El Torridos AI 
How's Your Aspen?? What do you think of Nebraska? Slimy-dogs Dave and Joe (sorry Bob) Dead ballenas and six hours to kill. Goha get a shower!!! Awesome slopes and awesome weather. Scorched skin and 15. and 15, and 15.. Wanna beer? Kegger at 8:00. Whaddya mean only one burger?· Alyson you sultry .....!" Cheerios, I hate Cheerios!!" II was Cream of Wheat?? Pile on I WHERE are the hot tubs?!! The rum and ra1s1n woman. Wet T-shirt contest! Topless men except YOU Andre! A Risky" all-mghter. BIG tip­pers. ll's Leprosy! I Thanks again for P1n nochio's, Mike Same time next year??? tuv. Olin& Head P.S. Happy Birthday L1z!' 
BOOKSTORE HALL OF FAME GAME come see the 1OK Calorie Champ Fastbreakers take on Tequilla White L1ghln1ng!! Tomghl, 6:00 on the Bookstore courts! Arrive early to share in the buHettt! 
Happy 20 Deal! -John 
House what did you get on your SOC ex· am? Whose notes did you borrow? How many times do you blow oH class? Love, 70. 
Happy 21st Birthday, Kevin. We love you! Saint Mary's College and Your one and only sister. 
HA.PPY 19th BIRTHDAY MARK ANTHONY LOVE, 
DAD, MOM, BRIAN & CHRIS. 
ATIENTION ND/SMC WOMEN. Be­cause I cannot offer compamonship to my roommate on his 22nd birthday, I hope that all you wild women can do ~ for me. Visit John in 820 Flanner or call him at 1172. He'll love it. 
You've seen break danc1ng, come see rake dancing. La Flfle Mal Gardea April 12·15 
JIM SMITH You are such a MUSH"I BEAKS 
JIM and KARIN CONGRATS" and BON CHANCE! Love BOB (Alias & 1") 
L1fe is a thorny rose. 
ALL RIGHT, THIS IS PRETIY SILLY WE WANT HAROLD B. AND NOBODY IS GONNA STOP US BEWARE SENIOR FELLOW COMMIT­TEE THE MASSES WILL HAVE THEIR WAY 
Bob Jocknleso -Thanks for being a great brother to your 3 SMC sisters We know It's a "Job" seldom seen. So from uato you-Happy Birthday-you've got 3 of us watching over you on your big 21111 
PATIY, MAP & MELtS· Have !uno nday night at the dance! MICHELE· Say h1 to moose for us! CARA-Piease bring us back some sun TRISH & TRACEY· Goodluck 1n sohball KARl & MYM· At least you II be there to take care of us when the ro!lt of us come stumhng 1n MARY-Have a good weekend, now that you re legal Have a wild wePkenrt everybodyI Love. T 
·~--~--­

The Observer Friday, April6, 1984-page 11 

The Observer/Paul Cifarclli 

jack Moran and his Notre Dame baseball game is the first of a five-game homestand this teammates return to action this afternoon with a 1:30 weekend. A short preview of what the weekend holds game:against Valparaiso atjake Kline Field. Today's for the Irish nine is given on page 16. 
The Most SophisticatedTraining Ground For NudearEngineeringIsn't OnThe Ground. 
It's on a Navy ship. 

The Navy has more than 1,900 reactor-years of nuclear power experience­more than anyone else in America. The Navy has the most sophisti­cated nuclear equip­ment in the world. And the Navy operates over half of the nuclear reactors in America. 
With a nuclear program like that, you know the Navy also offers the most compre­hensive and sophisticated nuclear training. 
Every officer in the Nuclear Navy completes a full year of graduate level technical training. Outside the Navy, this kind of program would cost you thousands. In the Navy, you're paid while you learn. 
Then, as a nuclear-trained officer, you supervise highly trained personnel in the get them fast. Because in the Navy, as your knowledge grows, so do your responsibilities. 

Today's Nuclear Navy is one of the most challenging and reward­ing career choices a man can make. And that choice can pay off 
while you're still in school. Qualified juniors and seniors earn approximately $1,000 per month while they finish school. 
As a nuclear-trained officer, after 4 years with regular promotions and pay increases, you can be earning as much as $40,500. That's on top of a full benefits pack­age that includes medical and dental care, and 30 days' vacation earned each year. 
As a nuclear-trained officer, you also earn a place among this nation's most qualified and respected professionals. So, 
operation of the most if you're majoring in 
r-----------,
advanced nuclear w 345 I math, engineering or 
I NAVY OPPORTUNITY INFORMATION CENTER
propulsion plants 

P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 
ever developed. You I 0 Please send me more information about get a level of technical I becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. (0 N) 
Name
and management 

First !Please Print) Last 
experience unequalled I Address______Apt. # _____
I City_____State_____Zip__
anywhere else. 

You get important I Age___tCollege/University_____ :j:YearinCollege__~__tGPA_____
responsibilities and you 
&Major/Minor__________
I 
I Phone 

(Area Codel Best Time to Call 
I 
This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to fur· nish anv of the information requested. Of course, the more we know. the mo~ we t'an help to determine the kinds of Navy posi· 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
Tomorrow the Notre Dame golf team faces tough Big Ten competi­tion as it travels to Purdue, where it hopes to expand on its opening meet wins last weekend and better its current 2-0 record. 
Last Saturday, the Irish beat Tri­State by 19 shots on the Burke Memorial Golf Course, taking the match 375-394. Leading the way for the Irish was senior captain Dave Moorman, who shot a two-over-par 73 to lead all golfers. 
"It (the Tri-State match-up) was a beautiful performance for the first time out," commented Notre Dame head coach Noel O'Sullivan. 
Sunday the Irish maintained their perfect record in the early going by taking Xavier, 375-405. Helping the Irish were strong performances by sophomore John Anthony, 73, and freshman Chris Bona, 74. 
O'Sullivan's squad is led by three seniors: Moorman, Dave Pangrase, and Frank Leyes. "They have 
the physical sciences, 1 send in the coupon.I Find out more about 
the most sophisti­
1 

cated training ground
I 

for nuclear engineer­I ing. Today's Nuclear 
I 
Navy. 
I
I 
L-~--~~

----------J 
NavyOfficers Get ResponsibilityFast. 
Notre Dame golfers go to Purdue Invitational 
maturity, experience, and excellent skill," comments O'Sullivan. "I con­sider this to be one of my best teams on paper." 
Other than these three seniors, O'Sullivan is endowed with a fine supporting cast, including ex­perienced senior Jack Eisenbeis, four sophomores, and four fresh­men. 
An Irish "blue team" proved this depth by finishing second W ednes­day afternoon in a 10-team tourna­ment at the Hamshire Country Club outside ofGrand Rapids, Mich. Soph­omore jon Huffman, medalist for the day with a 78, led an Irish attack which fell short by two strokes to Grand Rapids Community College, who hosted the event. 
"This (Wednesday tournament) 

was the first time that I had a team 
finish so well without playing the 
course previously," commented 
O'Sullivan. 
Teeing off early tomorrow morn­

ing, the Irish will face some of the 
best competition from the Big Ten 
and across the Midwest in the 
Purdue Invitational. Three of the 
best teams who will participate are 
Purdue, Ohio State, and Indiana. The 
Irish, who finished 1Oth in the 
Purdue field last year, are looking to 
fmish among the top five this year in 
the 15-team, 54-hole event. 
"Purdue has to have an edge be­cause it's their home course," says O'Sullivan. "The number-one team in our district is Ohio State; they're awesome with their first-string all­American Chris Perry." 
The lineup for Notre Dame will in­clude Moorman, Bona, sophomores John O'Donovan and Jon Huffman, Leyes, and Pangraze. 
"We're· looking forward to a 

weekend that is nothing spectacular 
in weather but spectacular in our 
team performance and team place­
ment," comments O'Sullivan. "It's 
going to be a test of stamina and en­
durance (but) we're prepared psy­
chologically and physiologically. 
After this invitational, we'll really 
know what kind ofteam we have." 
The Irish will play 36 holes tomor­row, beginning at 7:30 a.m., followed by 18 more on Sunday at the South Course in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Scores from last weekend's action 

against Tri-State include: Moorman, 
73; Leyes, 76; Pangraze, 78; 
O'Donovan, 77; Bona, 75; and Huf­
fman, 74. Against Xavier the scores 
were: Moorman, 76; Leyes, 77; 
Pangraze, 80; O'Donovan, 74; Bona, 
74; and Anthony, 73. 
Hawaii 
continuedfrompage 16 
Dame's doubles pairs lost their first sets to Hawaii. Then the number­one doubles team of Colligan and Fischette lost their second set, which gave Hawaii a 4-3 edge over the Irish. 
The score was subsequently tied at 4-4 as the number-two doubles pair of Panther and Lee won their second and third sets. 
Fans and team members then moved to neighboring courts as the number-three doubles match was won by Notre Dame's Greta Roemer and Cathy Schnell. 
"I hope we learn from our mistakes and improve our con­centration," said Petro. "We want to be champions, and to do that we must concentrate." 
-o)'ri; .,.. 
:;.;1'l;i.:. 
Today and Saturday the Irish will ,-}it· 

face the University ofWestern Mich-_, Y igan and the University of Western Illinios in Kalamazoo, Mich. · ·i,;~; · 
The Observer Friday, April 6, 1984: -page 12 
Passes Chamberlain 
Jabbar becomes all-time scorer 
A.'isoclated Press 
LAS vegas, Nef. -Kareem Abdul Jabhar became the National Basket­hall Association's all-time leading scorer when he hit a sky hook to break Wilt Chamberlain's mark of ~ 1,419 points last night. 
Ahdui-Jabhar took a feed from Ear­

vin "'Magic" Johnson and hit the I 0­
foot shot with H:c; -~ left in the Los 
Angdes Lakl·rs' game against the 
lltah Jazz. 
A sellout crowd of 18,3H9 gave thc 7-2 ccntcr a thunderous stand­ing ovation aftcr he broke the record as his teammates surrounded him in a cirde at midcourt. 
The rdert't."s stopped the game .md NBA commissioner David Stern went to midcourt to congratulate Ahdul-Jabbar. 
"'I'd like to give thanks to the great Allah for gifting me," Abdui-Jabbar told the crowd over the public­address system. ''I'd like to give thanks to my parents who are both here tonight for a lot of inspiration and a lot ofcourage and a lot ofsup­port. 

"I want to give my best to my fami­ly and lastly, I want to thank all of you tans for your tremendous sup­port," he said. 
Chamberlain, who had been ex­
pected at the game, was not in 
attendance. 

!.akers Coach Pat Riley sub­stituted Mitch Kupchak for Abdul­)abbar after he broke the record. 
Jabhar's shot, which gave him 22 points for the game, came after he missed a sky hook in the Lakers' pre­vious trip down thc court. 
With his parents Cora and Fcr-
Appeals court upholds Perez drug conviction 
i\ ssociated Press 
SANTIAGO, Dominican Republic -Atlanta Braves pitcher Pascual Perez appean·d m:aring the end of his three-month imprisonment yes­tcrday as a three-judge appeals court upheld his March 23 conviction on the reduced charge of cocaine pos­session, the equivalent of a mis­demeanor. 
However, Perez was returned to the Fort San Luis prison, where he has been hdd since his arrest on jan. 9, to await the possible appeal of the ruling by the prosecution to the Dominican Supreme Court. 
Both sides have I 0 days to file an appt.·al ofyestcrday's ruling. 
Tht.· panl'l handed down the ruling after a five-and-one-half-hour hearing in which witnesses were recalled and evidence re-t·xamined. 
The court also upheld the S I ,000 fine imposed on Perez by Criminal Courtjudge Fanny Cervantes for tht.· 
possession conviction. Perez has al­ready paid the fine. 
"I'm very happy," the 24-year-old right-hander said as he left the crowded courtroom. "I knew th~t my innocence would be proven once again." 
dinand Lewis Alcindor looking on, Abdui-Jabbar wasted no time in going after the record, scoring on a left-handed hook with less than two minutes gone in the game and quick­ly following it with a dunk. 
Abdul-Jabbar hit his frrst six shots of the game and his stuff with four seconds left in the frrst half gave him 16 points. five short of the record. 
The six-time NBA Most Valuable Player, who had scored 20 or more points in his last I 7 games, moved to within three of the record when he hit one of his patented sky hooks midway through the third quarter. 
But, with the crowd roaring everytime he touched the hall, Abdul-Jahbar missed his only other shot of the quarter. 
With I0:45 left in the game, Abdui-Jahbar took a feed from james Worthy and dunked to tie the record. 
Less than two minutes later, with the crowd on its feet clapping in uni­son, Johnson looked for the ball, waited for Abdul-Jabbar to get downcourt, and then hit the great center on the right baseline. 
Abdul-Jabbar turned to his left, and, guarded by two defenders, hit his record-breaking shot. 

•Amish Cooked Dinners 
·· •Also Steaks, Prime Rib, and Seafoods 
•Largest 
salad bar in town 

•75 
item Saturday brunch (served 8:00am-2:oopm) 

•Reservations 
accepted for large or small groups 

•15 
minutes from Notre Dame 

•850 
seats, lots of food and good service 


From Notre ()arne, south on Eddy Street 
_(about 10 minutes) to Jefferson, turn left (East) 5 minutes. Look for the castle! 
M. -9 P.M. • Saturday 8 A.M. -9 P.M. 
Closed Sundays-Except Easter, Mother's Day 1202 E. Jefferson Blvd. • Mishawaka. Indiana 255·8040 
MAKE MONEY IN COLLEGE Earn $185to $475 weekly, working with MCLand Associates We have many part-time and full-time positions available in your area. We are a small, yet rapidly expanding marketing research firm based in the New York Metropolitan area. For complete details and an application, please send a stamped, self-addressed envelope to MCL and Associates, Post Office Box 579, Ithaca New York 14851  

-~--·-----------... -................. ._.__._____ ~ ___ .._.._._.---..--.. -­
The Observer Friday, April 6, 1984 -page 13 
A:s round one starts 
Today's Game Bookstore9 

6:00 -Tequila White Lightning IV v. 1OK Catone Champs Fastbreakers 
Sunday's Games 

Stepan 1 12:00-Four Rink Rats v. Feoz & the Miners 12:45-No Need for Alarm v. tnsh Inquisition 
1:30 -Team 136 v. Yun Andropov & Four Guys. 
2:15-Kt.L Flight 007 & 269 Reasons . v. The Vacuum Effed 
3:00 -Stonehill Four Plus One v. Naugles 
Memonal 3:45-People Who Died Again v. Dribbling DYXZ 4:30-Return of Pigbag v. Good or Boys 
5:15 -Five Hoos1ers in Leisure Suits v. 3 Reverends ot Jesse Jackson 6:00-Wheels and the 4 Spokes v. 4 Profs and an Undergraduate Stepan 2 
12:00-The Semmar Liberation Organization v. The Sneakergate Sneaks 
12:45 -We Can Beat You with One Hand v. The Drillers 1.30-Four Guys Plus Herb v. Pete Townshend and the Kids 2:15-Carroll Staph Infection v. Lean Muscles& a Couple SqUirts 3:00-Captain Lips and the Amaz1ng .. v. Duf­fy'sAiamoe 3:45-Mr. Jeff Doesn't Know ... v. Jimmy G. and 
the Spots 4:30-The Yale Recipe Book v. Redwoods 5:15-We Got the Beef v. Walter's Boys & Rebel 
6:00 -Now or Never v. 4 Guys Who had Knee Surgery and Sperm Stepan 3 12:00-The Meat Packers v. Deadly Black Gas 
Emanating from 12:45-NDK Why? v. Thy Kingdom Come 
1:30 ---,Two Hoosiers & 3 Guys . v. We Didn't Want to Live with Joel 2:15-Four White Guys & an Extra .. v. Sewer Rat. Tunahead. 3:00-5 Hawaiians Hang1ng 10 v. Where's the beef" and the . 3:45-Sodom & Gomorrah v. Low Altitude Bom­bers 4:30-Spoofhounds 4 v. Boy Crotch & the Sleep­
walkers 5:15-Nasty. Nasty v. Forever Hungover 6:00-Los Huevones v. 4 Cigars & a Smoker 
Stepan4 

12:00 -Chris Soha & 4 Other Guys That Got Screwed v. The Best of 3 West 
12:45 -Lou & 4 Other Guys Named Mike v. 
Sometimes You Just Got To Say. 1:30-Gang of 5 v. BVK 2:15-Sons ofThunder VII v. Another Great Yale 
Rec1pe 3:00-One Jew & 4 Other Skins v. Joe Longo's School of Driving 3:45-Mounta1n Dew It All Night Long v. You're All Jellyfish & We Own You 4:30-The Fighting Horsecranks v. Snowbunny & His Receding Hareline 5:15-Virtual Unknowns v. Garfield & the Lasagna Lovers 
6:00-4 Ugly Guys & Mr. July v. Michael Jackson & the 01 ympic Torches 
Stepan 5 12:00-Fr. B and the Beer Bongs v. 2 Players, 2 Cripples & a Lebanese . 
12:45 -Barfalo Bob's Wild West Show v. Zog 
Jones & the Meat Cookers 1:30-Armed & Dangerous II v. Breda Hawkeyes 
2:15 -BackboardTrashv. Leonid, Yuri & the Polit­buro Stiffs 
3:00 Bambi's Riders v. Destined To Lose By 2 
3:45 -Foo-foo the Snoo v. 5 Chupava Rupa 
Dupas 4:30-Bong a v. Talk To Me 5:15-Sgt. Hulka & 4 Other Big Toes v. The Man­
gods 6:00-Stark Naked & the Protrusions v. Enigma Stepan6 12:00-Purple Helmeted Warriors of Love v. The 
J.J.J.. 

12:45-3 Unsharpened pencils. v. 5 Guys That Can't Shoot When .. 
1:30 -A Wet Girl is a Happy Girl v. Pete's Blind 
Sisters 2:15-Schlongers v. The Wasted Kmghts 3:00-4 K & O.C. v. 4 Guys That Would Rather be 
at Quarter Beer Night . 
3:45 -Joe Broussard Is Not Playing On This 
Team v. The RA-Holes 4:30-9 Soft v. Jim Rabbis & the Marvelous Buds 5:15-Captain Larry & His Motley Crew v. Dr. 
Magnet & the Attractions 6:00-Brick Throwers v. 5 Horsemen BookstoreS 3:00-4 Engineers & a PLS Who Won't Shave v. Coonan & the Barbarians 3:45-The Nosemen v. In the Crowd 
4:30 -Tanmasters v. Walter Mandate & 4 Other Guys Who Won't Win 
5:15 -King Spew & the Pofeylactic Throats v. Macri's Deli 
6:00-WBBS On the Air Again v. The Big Daddies Bookstore 1 0 
3:00 -In Dire Straits v. Perserverent Losers 
3:45 -5 Buzzards Circling Rose Kennedy v. 4 Bags & a Spoon 
4:30 -Roman Polanski & the 13 Year Olds v. 5 Guys Named Moe 5:15-Bob Barker & the Waiters v. Purdue Field Hockey Team 
6:00-One Mo' Time v. The Fudge Packers Lyons 11 
3:00 -I Like To Throw Shots of JD ... v. Tim Jacob & 4 Other Guys Who. 
3:45 -JJ Wehle & His 4 Inches v. DJ Scanlan & 
the Business Blowoffs 4:30-Ribbed & Lubricated v. We Are the Beef! 5:15-Malaka·s-5 v. Elvis Costello. the Attrac­
tions & the Gunney 
6:00 -If You Want To Play Ball Then Bring Your Knee Pads v. Windy City 5 
Lyons 12 3:00-Fick Dich Arschloch v. Newton's Fallacy 3:45-This Is Our Best Team Yet! v. The Shootist 4:30-Doyle's Gemini v. Not Ready for Dry Time 
Players 5:15-Under the Bleachers With Seymour Buttsv. 4 Jerks & a Dribbler IV 6:00-Academia Nuts v. Future Shock 

A DRAMATIC NEW CONCEP1 IN SUN TANNING! 
Preserve Your Tan 
. 'MN-HAWA1fAN 
sun tannirg sam 
2n-1026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 
Bookstore 
continued/rom page 16 
what they call a "cafeteria zon'e defense." 
Patrick says he is not at all in­timidated by the compeuuon his team faces in tonight's game. 
"I saw them play last year," he says, adding confidently, "We'll take care ofthem in pretty short time. I'm sure they're pretty good, but we had a pretty extensive training program with that (eating) contest." 
Blumb says the 1OK Champs were selected for tonight's game because the Bookstore commissioners felt that the team "has potentiaL" 
"They're willing to put on a good show," Blumb says, "and that's a good way to start off the tourna­ment, because this is a fun tourna­ment. 
"They've told me that they're going to cater the game," Blumb continues. "They will be eating throughout the entire game. The on­ly problem is that this is a Friday during Lent, so they will not be able to have any meat. But the way it sounds, they're going to do some very interesting things." 
The games in this tournament should continue to be interesting even after tonight. There has been a tremendous amount of interest in this year's event, and 22 teams were turned away from competition when the 512-team limit was reached. Blumb cites a classified ad which appeared in Wednesday'sOb­server as evidence ofthis interest. 
"I think it's going to be a good tournament," he says. "The fact that we had a team wanting to buy a spot for 25 dollars ought to say how valuable those spots are and how seem to worry Blumb about this tournament: the weather and the constant reappearance of the num­ber 13. 
much  interest  there  is  on  the  
campus."  
There  are  only  two  things that  

"It's Bookstore Basketball XIII, and it's starting on a Friday," the mildly-superstitious commissioner jokes. "We're even playing on Friday the 13th next week, but I'm hoping things will go welL 
"It was so nice last weekend, but watch -this Sunday it will snow, and we'll have ro play in it," Blumb laments. "Who knows what we're going to get in South Bend this time of year. We've got to hope that it's nice. I can control a lot of things with this tournament, but the weather is one thing that I can't do a darn thing about." 
Rain, snow. or sunshine, the 
games will go on, with the first 
regular games beginning Sunday af­
ternoon at 12 p.m. on the Stepan 
courts. 
One game to watch on Sunday will be at 3 p.m. on Stepan 6. That game will pit Four K & O.C. against Four Guys That Would Rather Be At Quarter Beer Night And One Guy That Would Rather Be At Lewis. 
At 4:30p.m. on Stepan I, Return of Pigbag will take on Good Ole' Boys. 
At 5:15 p.m., there are three 
Harris 
continued/rom page 16 
surprise for us," Harris lauds. "He has an exceptional attitude, and, if he continues to work hard, he will help out. Most importantly, he is get­ting better every day." 
Bars, who was thrust into the limelight following an injury to Mike Kovaleski in the Pitt game, per­formed well in his appearances last season. The 6-5, 237-pounder ac-
What does the Student union Record Store have for-me? 
Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price Any record or tape may be ordered 
--takes 4-5 days NO EXTRA GO~)T 
Blank tapes: TDK SA 90's TDKSA60's Maxell UDXL Ills Postage Stamps 
2 pk--$6.00 1--$3.25 2 pk--$4.50 1--$2.50 2 pk--$7.00 1--$3.75 
games of particular interest. Five Hoosiers In Leisure Suits will meet Three Reverends of Jesse Jackson And Two Guys To Attract The White Vote on Stepan 1. Rumor has it that the Three Reverends' team includes football player John Mosely, basket­ball player Cecil Rucker, and former Notre Dame tight end Tony Hunter. 
On the other side ofStepan courts 
(court 4) at 5:15p.m., Virtual Un­
knowns will meet Garfield And The 
Lasagna Lovers. 
At the same time on Bookstore 9, 
King Spew And The Pofeylactic 
Throats take on defending champs 1Macri's Deli 
At 6 p.m., you will have to decide 
between two games to watch. On 
Lyons 11, The Windy City Five, 
including John Stein and assistant 
basketball coach Jim Baron, will 
meet a team called If You Wanna 
Play Ball Then Bring Your Knee 
Pads. 
Meanwhile, Brick Throwers, a 
quarter-final team last year, goes up 
against Five Horsemen On Stepan 6. 
If none of these games appeals to you, there is more than a slight chance that you know someone to cheer for in another one of the 74 games being played on Sunday. 
counted for a total of 18 tackles in the Pitt and Penn State games. Bars is continuing to "work hard," accord­ing to his coach, and will again lend depth and experience to the posi­tion. 
Banks, who gained a start against Air Force in 1983, brings a good combination of strength and quick­ness to the position. The 6-5, 234­pound Banks was named national prep player of the year in 1982 by the COlumbus (Ohio) Touchdown Club. 
"Banks has the potential to become a very good player," Harris notes. "Although he still needs some experience, he has a good attitude and has made up his mind to work hard." 
With all of the demands on an outside linebacker, Harris is still confident that his players can do well, as long as they are consistent. 
"Our outside linebackers take an academic approach to the game ­knowing what to do in all cir­cumstances," Harris adds. "But we must strive for consistency. 
"The goal we have for our players is for them to become the·best that they can be. That will enable the coaches to determine who are.the best people for each situation so we can have them in the game at that time." 
But until then, Harris is g<:tting used to all of the new people, and they are getting used to him. 
PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S: Navy Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to. immediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 
* 
Systems inventory management 

* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management 


Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance­
ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age Hmit 29. Call Navy Toll Free 
1·800·382·9782 
Navy representative on campus 10-12 April 
............... 
$12 CASH AMERICAN PLASMA IS 
NOWHERE IN 
SOUTH BEND 

Make yourself feel great, donate blood plasma Help save a life. Receive $12 cash after your first donation 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 515 Lincolnway West 
Tues, Wed, Fri .......••.......... 8 am to 5 pm Sat ..................•.......... 9 am to 5 pm 
Bring this ad with you for bonus Exp. date, May 31, 1984 LASALLE. 
234-6010 z 
~ ~ 


• •• • • •. • • • • • • • o • • • I • t • t I I • • • • • "-~ -· 
The Observer Friday~ April 6, 1984 -page 14 
Five teams take 2-0 series leads as NHL playoffs continue 
Rangers 3, Islanders 0 

Associated Pres.<~ 
UNIONDALE. N.Y. -Goaltender 

Glen I I anion postt:d the first playoff 
victory of his career. while Reijo 
Ruotsalaint·n and Peter Sundstrom 
scored power play goals. kading the 
New York Rangers to a :3·0 victory 
over the Islanders last night that 
evened their National Hockey 
Lt·ague playoff series at one game 
apiece. 
After being blanked on six power­

play attempts in their 4-1 defeat here 
Wt·dncsday night, the Rangers 
struck on thl'ir first manpower ad­
vantage: yesterday, just 5:0H into the 
game. Ruotsalainen, a defenscman 
from Finland. blasted a slap shot 
through a screened Billy Smith into 
the Islanders' net. 
Sundstrom made it 2-0 with a 

quick wrist shot past Smith's glove 
·1:02 into tht· middle period. The 
play was set up when Pierre 
Larouche won a faceoff from Bryan 
Trottkr and got the puck to Don 
Maloney, who relayed it to James 
Patrick at the point. Patrick's pin­
point pass was converted by 
Sundstrom. 
While the Rangers power-play 

camt· through when needed, the Is· 
landers failed on nine power-play at· 
tempts. 
Mark Pavclich clinched the 

victory -the Islanders' first home 
playoll defeat after nine successive 
vktorks -with a 25-foot slap shot 
over Smith's stick after picking offan 
errant pass hy dc:fcnscman Paul 
Boutilier at 6:06 of the third period. 
Capitals 6, Flyers 2 

A.o;sociated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. -Craig Laugh­

lin and Dave Christian scored goals 
:32 seconds apart in the third period, 
giving the Washington Capitals a 6·2 
victory over the Philadelphia Flyers 
last night and a 2-0 lead in their Na­
tional Hockey League Stanley Cup 
playoffs. 
Laughlin's hackhanded goal at '2:5:3 snapped a 2-2 tic for the Caps, 
who came from hehind twice, just as 
they did in the opener Wednesday 
night. 
On Washington's next foray down tht· ice, Christian's shot was stopped by Philaddphia goalie Bob Froese, hut the puck rolled into the net as he tric:d to dear. 
Philadelphia took a I -0 lead at 

14:05 of tht· first period on a goal by Brad Marsh. 
Mike Gartner's second goal of.the 

series tied it I -I at I 5:2H, hut 
veteran Bohhy Clarke put Philadel­
phia ahead 2-1 at 17:21. It also was 
Clarke's second goal in two games. 
Alan llowarth scored the only goal of the: second period for Wash­ington at 4:55, and the Caps went on to defeat the Flyt-rs for the fifth con­set·utivt· time. Bryan "Butsy" Erick­son added a power-play goal for the Caps at 12:0 I of the third period, his st:cond of the series, and Dougjarvis scornl into an empty net at I H:29. 
AI Jensen, suhhing for Pat Riggin, who sufii.·rt•d a hruised hand in the opener, turned aside :30 Philadel· phia shots. 
Canadiens 3, Bruins 1 

Associated Press 
BOSTON -Mario Trcmhlay and Mats Naslund scored first-period goals, and rookie Steve Penney made tht·m stand up with hrilliant goaltt·nding as the Montreal Canadicns edged the Boston Bruins, :3· I, last night to take a 2-0 lead in their National Hockey League playoffseries. 
The Canadiens, first-round playoff losers in the past three seasons, can wrap up tht· hest-of-five Adams Divi­sion semifinal tomorrow on their home ice in Montreal. 
Montreal finished fourth in the division, 29 points behind Boston. hut for the st•cond consecutive night upset the first-place Bruins. 
Tremblay got his first playoff goal just 16 seconds inti> thc"game.'Btm 
Gainey shot the puck off the back· hattled back, getting the goals by board and Trcmhlay picked it up, Foligno and McKenna within 14 heating goalie Pete Peeters from a seconds of each other and making difficult angle. the score 4-2 with just under eight 
The Canadicns went ahead 2-0 at minutes played in the period. 10::39 of the first period on a power· But Hunter took advantage of play goal hy Naslund. Tom Fergus, some confusion at the Buffalo blue who got the Bruins' only goal in line and fired a short shot between their 2·1 opening game loss, made Sauve's pads at 13:05. the score 2-I on a power-play goal Quehec capped the scoring with a with just nine seconds left in the first goal by Wilf Paiement late in the period. third period. 
Penney stopped Ray Bourque's slapshot from the left point. The Stars_6, Hawks 5 puck came out to Fergus, who heat A.'isociated Press Penney with a short hackhander. BLOOMINGTON, Minn. -AI 
Penney stopped 26 shots, includ­MacAdam, Willi Plett, and Neal ing I :3 in the third period when he Broten scored third-period goals to repeatedly hlunted solid scoring hoist the Minnesota North Stars over bids by the Bruins. Chicago. 6-5, last night and even 
their Norris Division playoffseries at
Nordiques 6, Sabres 2 one game apiece. 
Associated Press With the score tied :3·:3, MacAdam BUFFALO, N.Y. -Dale Hunter deflected in a goal, and Plett and 
scored twice last night to lead the Broten scored on rebounds less than Quebec Nordiqucs to a 6-2 victory two minutes apart. Denis Savard and over the Buffalo Sahres in a National Darryl Sutter notched third-period 
Hockey League Adams Division goals fix Chicago, but Minnesota semifinal playofi· game. hung on to win. The victory gives the Nordiques a The best-of-five series now moves 2-0 edge in the best-ol~five series. to Chicago for two games this Along with Hunter, Michel weekend. 
Goulet, Andre Savard, Anton Stastny. Red Wings 5, Blues 3 and Wilf Paiement scored for Quebec, while the Sabres' goals Associated Press 
came from Mike Foligno and Sean ST. LOUIS -Rookie Steve Yzer­McKt·nna. man backhanded a shot into the net 
The Nordiqucs opened the with I I: 17 remaining, snapping a scoring when a dearing pass from deadlock and leading the Detroit the Buffalo end bounced off the Red Wings to a S-3 National Hockey sidehoards and created a Quebec League playoff victory last night two-on-one. over the St. Louis Blues. 
Goulet passed to Hunter, who Yzerman's goal, followed by Dan-fired a shot that eluded Buffalo ny Gare's shot into an open net with goalie Boh Sauve. ::3H remaining, left the teams tied 1-1 
The Nordiques upped their lead in their best-of-five Norris Division to 2-0 when Ric Seiling's pass across semifinals series. the Quebec hluc line was inter· Outshot I0·3 through the ceptcd hy Goulet, who skated in un· opening sixteen-and-one-half molested and slipped a backhander minutes, the Red Wings launched hehind Sauve. their comehack starting with Garc's 
Quehec looked to make it a rout first of two goals on a rebound at in the second period, when Savard I:53 of the middle session. and Stastny scored in the period's St. Louis afterward killed off near-first seven minutes. But Buffalo ly three minutes of a five-minute 
~~ 
PROGRAMMING BOARD I NEEDS YOU! ~~ 
Accepting Applications For 
. Irish Gardens Manager 
I 

-Darby's PlaceManager ~ 
Applications available at the Student Activ· ~ ities Board Offices on the 2nd floor of § LaFortune. 
J 
§Applications due in by 4PM Friday, April 6th. 
'~...o--..r..r..r..r~~..r...cY"..r...o--..r..r..r..A)O'"..r~...o-....-= 

Weare willing to help! Stephen's Body Shop 255-2261 
341 Capitol Ave., Mishawaka We specialize in: collision repair, paint jobs, prestige autos 

match penalty assessed Dwight Schofield. But Detroit, capitalizing on Blues' defensive errors, gained a 2-2 tie on Greg Smith's rising slap shot from in front at 1 5:51. 
Randy Ladouceur, on a solo rush, gave Detroit a 3·2 advantage at •i:51 of the final period, only to have St. Louis pull into a :3·:3 tic on Doug Gil­mour's power-play goal less than three minutes later. 
Oilers 5, Jets 4, OT 
Associated Press 

EDMONTON, Alherta -Dcfcn· seman Randy Gregg scored on a long wrist shot 21 seconds into overtime last night to give the Edmonton Oilers a 5-4 victory over the Win­nipegJets and a 2-0 lead in the their National Hockey League Smythe Divison semifinal series. 
Gregg's shot from the left hoards slid between the legs of Winnipeg goaltender Marc Behrend and capped a furious Edmonton come· back. 
The third game in the hcst-of~fivc series will be played tomorrow in Winnipeg. 
Glenn Anderson's goal at I I: 12 of 
the third period was the spark that 
brought the Oilers back. That goal 
pulled the Oilers within 4-:3 and 
Raimo Summanen tied it at 12:5H to 
force the overtime. 

Wayne Gretzky and Dave 
Semenko scored the earlier goals for 
Edmonton. 
Dale Jlawerchuk, Tim Watters, Moe Mantha, and Andrew McBain scored for Winnipeg. 
The Jets have now lost 14 con­secll[ive games to Edmonton. 
Flames 4, Canucks 2 
Associated Press 
CALGARY, Athena Jim Peplinski and Mike Eaves scored goals in a I:03 span in the second period to overcome a 1-0 deficit and lead the Calgary Flames to a 4-2 vic· tory over the Vancouver Canucks last night and a 2-0 lead in their Na­tional llockey League playoff series. 
The Smythe Division semifinal series continues tomorrow night with Game Three in Vancouver. 
Dave Williams had given the Canucks a I -0 lead at 9::32 of the middle period. Pt·plinski scored 34 seconds later and Eaves gave the Flames the lead fix good at I I :09. 
Allan Macinnis scored on a power-play at 6:40 of the final period for a 3·1 Calgary lead. Jere Gillis pulled Vancouver to w~thin 3· 2 at I I :02, hut Doug Rist-brough provided the final margin with an empty-net goal with eight seconds remaining. 
Vancouver goalie Richard 
Brodeur made 43 saves, while 
Rejean Lemelin made 32 for Calgary. 


Friday Special 
Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 Imports ... $1.00 
Laundry Notice: To insure that all charges for special/express laundry, drycleaning and tailoring are able to be billed, all items picked up after April13, 1984 will be strictly on a cash basis. No charges to the students' accounts will be permitted. However, this does not apply to the regular student bundle service. Any amount over the bundle allotment will be billed on the next semester's in· voice. Seniors are reminded that their accounts must be billed prior to graduation, including overuse of bundle service. We will have balances owed, as a result of exceeding the laundry allotment, for seniors only, on May 10, '84. Any bundle input by a senior after that date may result in a negative balance which will require us to collect cash upon receipt of the bundle by the senior. 


1984 Notre Dame Mock Convention 
continues tonight at 7:00p.m. Saturday at 1:00 p.m. in Stepan Center 
Delegates, faculty, spectators, Qll welcome! 

-----------------·-------­
-·----------­

~c:tcJlC3L~-------------------------------------&-id_a.y,•A•p-ril_6_,·_19_8_4_.p_a_~
___l5 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 

IN HOPf Of ewe£ AGAIN SrrrTN& T06HHfR IN 8P-OTHfRH00/7, 


SO WHAT15 A 
AUOW Mf TO OFFE!?. THf FO/.­
~MP TCJSH 8ETWf-E.N
WWIN& &e5Tf/f(£ A5 fl TOKIW 60017 FRI£NI15 .1
OF MY AFFfWON ... 
\ _i':>-~w 

Mellish Dave 


QuicKLY, R.urv AWAV 1 THEY 8EAT US HEllE! TilEY lOCK US UP,, 
THEY FO!{(f IJS To 
EAT JIUN6A~IAII /ltWiE BAKE! 

\ 


Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side Gary Larson 

"I ·usl need to lose enough weight to get into my m~umuu this summer." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 37 "-Got a 58 Resort 9 Pen 1 Forbidden Secret" 61 Alms chest 10 Home 5 Princes 38 Typeof 62 Street 11 William IV 
in India fuel vendor's of Eng. 
10 -Minor 39 Thesaurus ice cream 12 Author of 14 Cassin! name 64 Korean "Picnic" 15 Tilting 41 Plod soldiers 13 Culture 16 First name heavily 65 Liqueur medium 
in music 42 Business flavoring 17 Weak abbr. 66 Salad fish 18 Periods 19 Korbut 43 Superior 67 Existence of time 20 KingCole in quality 68 Car mishaps 22 Causes 
21 Hair· 44 "-by 69 Pledge annoyance raising Starlight" 23 Canaanite 22 Loafer 46 Query deity
47 Sour DOWN 24 Weight 23 Yeast 49 Fabric 1 "Our-" allowances 24 Canasta 50 Ship In the 2 Inter-25 Roman 
card Hong Kong 3 A·one province25 Preclude harbor· 4 Expression 26 Jackets 28 Minus orna· of disgust 27 Weapons
mentation 52 Flowering 5 More 29 Aggressive31 Shorten plant uncouth person 54 High points 6 Some clocks 30 Summer 56 Placefor 7 Lawterm refresher 34 Finally Schehera· 8 Court 32 Molding 36 Roman date zade figure 33 Started in 

"Well, they finally came ... But before I go, let's see you roll over a couple times." 
35 Treat's 53 Sp. kings 
partner 54 Skin 40 Unit 55 God of love 41 Point of 56 Sharpen 
juncture 57 Related 43 Hot weather 58 Jaeger 
helps 59 Caged 45 Bridge word 60 Oriental 48 Most plain nurse 51 Czar's 62 Possessed 
decree 63 Indian 
Thursday's Solution 


.----·------------------. 
:  Tonight and Tomorr·ow Night  .:  
t  •  
: 7:oo!ii~go  ~~!f!RY ttdt~~  $t.so I .;:~ !  
t  .  t  

t~ .... ~ ~ ~ ~ ..__. ~.-..~~~ ~~..-..~.--..~~ ...-...-. ~·f 
. , # ~,,, ••• , ••••••• #, ••••• ,.,, .. --­
Campus 

•3:p.m. 
-Tennis, Notre Dame Quadrangular Match, Courtney Courts 

•6 
p.m. -Bookstore Basketball, Hall of Fame Game, 1 OK Calorie Champ Fastbreakers vs. Tequil­lia White Ughtning, Bookstore Courts 

•7, 
9:30 and 11:45 p.m. -Film, "Never Say Never Again," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Dietrich Bonhoeffer: Memories and Perspectives," 204 O'Shaughnessy 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Three Brothers," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Master Story Telling, "Tales to be Told, Irish Folk and Fairytales," Patrick Ryan, Grace Hall Pit, Sponsored by Anthropology Department 

•8:30 
p.m. -Semi-Formal Dance, The Waltz Ball, Chautauqua, Sponsored by ND Chapel Choir, $1 

•9:30 
p.m. -Beaux Arts Ball, "Stereotypes," South Dining Hall, 54 


Saturday, April 7 
•8:30 
a.m. -Registration, for the 9th Annual Sociology Convention, Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy 

•II
:30 a.m. -Sociology Convention Address, "Rights: Both Personal and Group Rights, A Com­mentary on the Civil Rights Position," Prof. Joseph 

W. 
Scott, Room to be assigned 

•I 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs University ofWis­consin,jake Kline Field 

•4:
15 p.m. -Music Dept. Concert, Graduate Cello Recital, Terry Timmerman, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club Spring Concert, Washington Hall 

•9 
p.m. -Radio Interview, The Elvis Brothers, 


WSNDAM64 Sunday, AprilS 
•I 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs. De Pauw Univ, Jake Kline Field 

•1 
p.m. -Opening Art Exhibitions, "19th Cen­tury European Photographs From the Janos Scholz Collection," Print, Drawing and Photography Col­lection, and "Faculty Portraits," by Thomas Fern, O'Shaughnessy Galleries 

•2 
p.m. -Masswith Emmaus, Moreau Seminary 

•7 
p.m.-International StudentFestival, Wash­ington Hall 

•7:30 
p.m.-Concert, Alabama, ACC, $12.50 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, St. Mary's College Wind En­semble, Little Theatre 

•8 
p.m. -Lenten Lecture Series, "Justice Begins at Home," Father David Burrell, Sacred Heart Crypt 



4/6/84 ©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. Ail Rights Reserved 4/6/84 

~~----­

~---------------~~ 
S~orts 

The Ohscrvcr/Filc Photo 
Bookstore XIII begins tonight with the annual Hall of Fame Game at 6:00 on Bookstore 9, which pits Tequila White Lightning IV vs. /OK Calorie Champs Fastbreakers. Phil Wolf previews tonight's game as well as this year's tounzament in his story at right. 
Baseball team at home 
After a series of rainouts, the Notre Dame baseball team will be looking to pick up where it left off as it begins a five-game weekend homestand today with a I:_~0 p.m. game against Valparaiso. 
On Saturday. the Irish will play the University of Wisconsin in a doubleheader starting at I:00 p.m. Another twinbill will follow on Sunday against Depauw. 
The team enters the weekend with a 7-9 record, and will be looking to reach the . '500 mark for the first time since it had a 4-4 record over spring break. 
The Irish sport a 3-l record over the last four games, and have been led by improved pitching. The pitching staff has acquin:d a combined 4.7'5 earned run average, pa<.-ed by Mark Watzke's 2-0 record and .7'5 ERA. 
The Irish sluggers have batted a respectable .270 over the first sixteen games, scoring an average of ova five runs a game. David Clark leads the regulars with a . .333 average, while Steve Passinault is close behind at ..U4. 
llopd'ully, both the pitchers and the hitters will continue to per­form well over the weekend. Baseball fans might want to come out and enjoy a kw good games at jake Kline Field in the coming days. 
Spring football 

Friday, Apri16, 1984-page 16 
Bookstore Basketball XIII begins tonight with Hall of Fame Game 
By PHIL WOLF 
Sports Writer 

You won't find it in The Guinness Book ofWorld Records, but it is the largest single-elimination basketball tournament in the world. Although the editors of the record book decline to list it presently, the '512­team tournament is the most ex­tensive anywhere. 
It is the one-and-only Bookstore Basketball Tournament, and it is back again for the 13th straight year. 
The tournament begins tonight at 6 p.m. on Bookstore court 9 with the annual Hall of Fame Game. The par­ticipants in this year's Hall of Fame matchup will be Tequila White Lightning IV and The IOK Caloric Champ Fastbreakers, and Bookstore Commissioner Jeff Blumb says he is excited about the opening game. 
"We're hoping it (the Hall ofFame Game) is as good as last year's," Blumb says. "It's going to be hard to top or match last year's, hut we think we have a game that might come close." 
Last year, The Even Worse Off fell to Love and the Shooting Stars, 2I-7, in a very entertaining Hall of Fame Game. The Even Worse Off arrived 
at the Bookstore in a limousine and 
stepped out onto a red carpet. After 
the team used a small trampoline to 
slam dunk during warmups, Univer­
sity President Father Theodore Hes­
burgh arrived on the scene to bless The Even Worse Off in Latin. The prayer was not enough help, however, and the team was overcome by Karl Love (a varsity walk-on), john Frierot, and the rest ofthe Shooting Stars. 
Tonight's game possibly could rival the fun of that game a year ago. Tequila White Lightning should provide most of the talent, and the IOK Champs should provide most of the fun for the night. 
Tequila White Lightning finished as runner-up to Bookstore XII Champion Macri's Preferred Stock last year, and the team has four players returning. The only new member of the squad is freshman Steve Beuerlein, a varsity ti>othall player who also led Sorin Hall to the 
interhall  basketball  championship  
this winter.  
Lightning captain  Brian  Enright  

says that he is looking forward to the game. 
"Everyone is excited about it," says Enright, who adds that his team never has formal practices or strategy meetings. "Everybody's in pretty good shape, and we like to play, so we just take one game at a time." 
The IOK Caloric Champ Fastbrcakers, however, definitely 
Bookstore XIII 
have been preparing for tonight's big evt:nt. The team, which consists of the top five finishers in the Law School IOK Caloric Course ('ating contest, will be playing what captain Wayne Patrick calls "a buffet game." 
According to a news release from the Fastbrcakcrs, the team ··avcragl·s over 46,000 calories per game." In addition, thc IOK Champs havl· a special offense, called the "dunka· stuffa-jamma offense," and they run 
see BOOKSTORE,. page 1J 

With last match victory 
Women's tennis team tops Hawaii 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 

A tennis match isn't over until the last ball is served. The Notre Dame women's tennis team proved how true this sports cliche can be as the Irish narrowly defeated a highly­rated squad from the University of Hawaii, 5-4, last night under the north dome of the ACC. 
"It feels good to win," said Irish head coach Sharon Petro. "It shouldn't have been as close as 5-4, but we came from behind and that's nice considering a team like Hawaii." 
Hawaii came to South Bend on the 24th day of its month-long tour of the mainland boasting an impressive I9-'5 season record. Despite Hawaii's strong record, Petro was confident of an Irish victory. "We had comparable scores and we ex­pected to win," she said. 
Although the Irish dropped their first match, 7-'5 and 6-4, sophomore Susie Panther played well at first 
Unfamiliar faces at linebacker 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports W'n'ter 
Unfamiliar faces abound this spring in thc outside linebacker area of thl· football practice field behind the ACC. 
In addition to new outside linebacker coach Bishop Harris, the two players who last year started for the Irish at those postions arc noticeably abscnt. 
Rick Naylor, the second-leading tackler on last year's team, does not return for next season. Naylor boasted fine career statistics: I46 tackles, three fumble recoveries and three interceptions, while earning starting assignments 24 times in the past three rears. 
Senior (to-be) Mike Golic is also not to be seen at spring drills. The defensive co-captain is sitting out this spring due to an injury,. 
The 6-'5, 2'57-pound Golic was the defensive MVP for the Irish last season and an honorable mention choice on The Associated Press' All­America team. Golic was fourth on the team in tackles, accounting for '59 stops. He led the team in tackles behind the line of scrimmage with ten, and in fumble recoveries with two. He also had tour quarterback sacks. 

In addition, Golic has Jogged a lot oftime on the field during his career, playing in 33 of 34 games since his arrival three years ago. 
Golic was listed as a defensive end last year, and although the position will bc referred to as outside linebacker in I9B4, the respon­sibilities will be the same. 
"The outside linebacker probably has the most difficult position on defense in college football because ofthe way offenses attack," says Har­ris. " He has to be able to play many roles: pass rusher, be able to play runs, contain the sweep, and cover backs running pass patterns. 
So far this spring, Harris has had an opportunity to look at a lot of dif­ferent people, and he is happy with what he has seen. 
"I'm pleased with ~lle way the players are working and with their attitude," notes Harris. "But we need to improve on our consistency." 
With Golic's position the only sure bet for next fall, four other players are in the running for the other spot. 
Junior Rick DiBernardo was the leading candidate for the other start­ing assignment before suffering aft injury earlier this spring. The 6-3, 238-pound DiBernardo backed up Naylor last season and was having a good spring until he pulled a hamstr­ing muscle last week. 
"With a good spring, Rick will be able to help us," says his coach. "He's missed some valuable scrimmage time, however." 
Also in contention for the position are seniors Brian Behmer and Joe Bars, and sophomore Robert Banks. 
The 6-6, 232-pound Behmer, who switched from his tight end slot in order to help add some depth on 
defense,  has  been  the  biggest  
surprise for Har ris.  
"Brian  has  been  a  pleasant  

see HARRIS, page 13 
singles in two long and gruelhng sets. Panther became frustrated 
· when she missed shots, revealing her determination to win. "Her opponent was steady and strong," explained Petro. "Sometimes her concentration waned, but she came right back again." In the number-two singles slot, Irish co-captain Lisa Lafratta lost her frrst set, 6-2, to Rose Thomas. However, she rallied in the second and third sets, 6-4 and 6-2, to give the Irish an important point against the Rainbows. At the number-three singles spot, · Mary Colligan easily defeated her opponent, 6-I and 6-2, giving the Irish another crucial point. Pam Fischette lost two close sets, 6-5 and 6-4. "Pam's opponent was strong," said Petro. "She had a Jot of concentration which you usually don't see in the number-four spot." The fifth match was a disappointe­ment for the Irish as junior Laura Lee dropped two sets, 6-4 and 6-3. Lee 

attempted to compensate for a slow start in the first set, but she was unable to overcome her opponent. 
"She can play better," said Petro. "But she improved and played a good doubles game." 
Freshman joanne Biafore was im­pressive in the number-six singles spot and easily won in two sets, 6-I and 6-2, to retain an undefeated 
spring  record.  "She's  been  im­ 
pressive all spring and is still  un­ 
defeated," said Petro.  

The score between the two teams was tied .3-.3 as they completed the singles competition, and the Irish needed to win at least two of the three doubles matches to claim the entire match. Petro wasdisappointcd with some players performances and th<mght the Irish should have lead Hawaii 4-2 or '5-l going into the doubles. 
Things looked grim for thc Irish as they entered the second round of doubles competition. Each of Notre 
see HAWAll, page 11 




