WVFI-page7 

VOL XIX, NO. 18 thl' irH.Il'pl'ndt·nt ..,tudt·nt Ill'\\ ..,paper "lT\ rng ll()tn dame and.....rill! man·.., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1984 

¥"~,.,>--······~~. Corby's scheduled f f to open tomorrow 
J 
.... 
By MARGARET FOSMOE shared ownership of the tavern Executive Editor property with Rowley Jr. -~---·. The reopening of the bar tomor­Corby Tavern, I 026 Corby Ave., is row is contingent on obtaining the 
ifi:.••.:., 

scheduled to reopen tomorrow, ac­money, repaying the I.R.S. and ex­I cording to Michael Scopelitis, attor­amining the contents of the tavern, ney for Rose Rowley. cautioned Scopelitis. 
"The plan is to have Corby's open "We are scheduled to have the Thursday night," Scopelitis said last tavern turned over to Rose night. (Rowley) Thursday morning," said 
j-
1be popular student bar was Scopelitis. "But we don't know what seized and closed by the Internal kind of condition it's in inside," he
:~.>.'''~ 

Revenue Service on Aug. 23 for non­said. payment of nearly S13,000 in em­Rose Rowley was named adminis­
ployment taxes. trator ofC.T.L, Inc. after the bar was 
The funds to repay the tax debt closed by the I.R.S. were scheduled to be obtained this If supplies have to be ordered or morning by Rose Rowley, said any vandalism has occurred since Scopelitis. Rost: Rowley is the ad­the bar was seized, the reopening ministrator of C.T.I., Inc., the corpo­could be delayed, said the attorney. ration which owns the bar. She is the "If they can't have it open 
widow of Harold Rowley Jr., the Thursday, they plan to have it open owner of the corporation, who was Friday," said Scopelitis. ""'" i . murdered in his home Aug. 1. The attorney said he did not know
""" 

.;1' ·' .•.....:..·'/'' who would be managing Corby's. 
Thr Obsrrvrr/Pbil Drrtrr Scopelitis said he believes obtain­Rose Rowley has been interviewing Famed cartoonist Gary Larson again autographed co­end. Larson also appeared here last year and undoubt­ing the money is a "joint effort" be­candidates for the position, he said. pies ofhis books at the Notre Dame bopkstore while edlyfound at Notre Dame a readership that truly un­tween Rose Rowley and James Rose Rowley could not be 
Broad, a Chicago resident who reached for comment.
crowds ofpeople stood in line waiting to meet the leg-derstood his unusual brand ofhumor. 
Larson, rocketed to fame by a stroke of fate, at ND again 
By CINDY RAUC.KHORST traits similar to those ofhumans. in biology, one of his college inter­humble beginning led to syndica­tive ideas can be attributed to his AND MIRIAM HILL With his unique outlook, Larson ests. tion in over I 50 cities, and in the past, the work of contemporary StaffReporters depicts such abstract situations and The idea ofdrawing cartoons for a sale of Far Side cards, books and humorists Steve Martin and George relationships as cows that play "ring career came later, after some of his calendars. Booth has influenced him, he said. 
What results from "strange par­and run," bears that attempt to mug was work published in local Seattle Claiming his style is not unique, Lar­ents, an interest in biology, and an hikers, and snakes that .coqtrive newspapers. This initial success en­With the the expansion ofTbeFar son ~xplained,"l don't think I'm a active imagination?" For cartoonist clever April Fool's tricks to play on couraged him to seek further Side, it would seem that Larson pioneer in the style. It (TheFarSide) Gary Larson ofTbeFarSide fame, the humans. Humans shown in situa­recognition in San Francisco, where would be under tremendous pres­is a form that's finaJly finding its way results have been success and an tions of absurdity also appeal to the. he hoped to sell a few cartoons to sure to come up with new ideas. For­into newspapers." 
avid following of fans, all eager to reader's sense of humor and im­publications, Larson said. tunately, his imagination provides discover just what makes his bizarre agination. more than enough material to insure Asked if he is concerned that sense ofhumor so appealing. From the success ofhis humorous By what he described as an acci­the continuing popularity and suc­some readers may not understand 
Larson spoke and autographed style of expression, it would seem dent, a trip to the Sa_n Francisco cess of Tbe Far Side. In fact, Larson his esoteric cartoons, Larson said, books for long lines ofth(se fans yes-.. Larson had consciously worked to Chronicle led to a five year contract claims he is often "inundated with "People relate to different kinds of terday at the Notre Dame Bookstore. develop this talent throughout his for syndication. "It was something I ideas" when he <kaws and has trou­humor; it's a reaJ hit or miss proposi­
In Larson's world, events in daily life. But although he always enjoyed had no idea was going to happen," ble deciding which to use in his car­tion ."Judging from the popularity life take on new and exciting sig­drawing, Larson said he did not see said Larson. "It was just sort ofby the toons. ofTbe Far Side and the long lines of nificance, mainly because ofthe sar­the connection between art and fates, that I screwed up and went to Where do all those ideas come people waiting to meet him at the castic twists added to these humor until years later. He never the wrong office and talked to an from? "I just seem to sit down and it Bookc;tore yesterday, it seems that occurrences. Animals often acquire fantasized about being a cartoonist, editor of the syndicate. All of a sud­comes out ofme," Larson said. Gary Larson's bizarre sense of funny human qualities and exhibit and in fact, had planned on a career den, I was signing a contract." This Although most of Larson's crea-humor more often hits than misses. 

HPC concerned over alcohol rules for off-campus hall socjal events 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Roommates" and "Booze Cruises" tivities Board informed the council News Staff are examples ofthese off-campus ac­ofan amateur comedy night Oct. 17, tivities. to be sponsored by the Budweiser 
An upcoming memo concerning Pasquerilla West President Peggy Comedy Shop. 1be event will off-campus hall-sponsored events Hess said that it would be ridiculous feature a single representitive from was discussed last night at the Hall to hold the halls responsible for any each dorm in a three-minute stand President's Council meeting. The such accidents. Tayback said he is up comedy routine. Each performer memo will reportedly state that halls trying to set up a meeting with will be chosen by his dorm and cash sponsoring off-campus events Goldrick that will hopefully clear up prizes will be given. where alcohol is served must sign a the situation. Sue Baker of the Special Events release holding them respqnsible for Maureen Truback of the South Committee of the Student Activities distribution ofalcohol to only those Bend Medical Foundation Blood Board announced the Fall Festival to over 21, and any alcohol-related Bank addressed the. council regard­be held Sept. 27-30. The major event accidents that may occur. ing future blood drives at the Uni­ofthe festival will be a touch football 
HPC Chairman Chris Tayback said versity. Truback said "Past blood tournment. The tournment will con­that Vice President for Resident Life drives have been quite haphazard." sist of six-man teams separated into John Goldrick told him about the She said that last year only 1~9 stu­men's and woman's divisions.The memo. The HPC had contacted dents gave blood, and asked the indi­winners will receive a pizza party at Goldrick because "the Administra­vidual hall presidents to make an the local restaurant of their choice. tion has not even been in contact appeal for donors. Truback asked Baker also announced that a candy with the hall rectors regarding alco­that 1 0 percent of the student body sale will be held in the dining halls to hol at off-campus events," Tayback give blood. and pointed out that St. promote the festival. Father knows best said. Joseph's Hospital's leukemia unit The council also announced that University President Father Theodore Hesburgh lectures on a 
The memo will be released to the recently was in need of blood and the Sl8,000 the council receives subject on which he is an expert: the value ofa liberal arts educa­hall presidents in the near future, could not get it. tion. Tbe talk, sponsored by the Arts and Letters Student AdvisOry Tayback said. "Screw Your Janet Grodier of the Student Ac-see HPC, page 3 Council, was given last night in Was~?ington Hall. 



The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1984 -page 2 

Alleged air jam racismat an air jam ~once~t at_the University of California-Santa Barbau prompted an mvestlgatwn. The ad hoc committee formed to examine the incident asked for apologies from the students involved, and from the Associated Stu­dents, the group that sponsored the event. At issue were stereotypi­cal imitations of black performers by white students. UCSB Chancellor Robert Huttenback issued a state_ment calling for greater understanding ofminority student issues. -Tbe Observer 
A DC-8 cargo jetlinerhit a perimeter-fence while taking off from the Quito airport yesterday and crashed into houses near the runway, killing at least 10 persons, airport authorities said. Radio stations said as many as 20 persons in the plane and on the ground might have perished, and they broadcast appeals for blood donations. Red Cross officials said "a number" qf people in the homes were injured, with some sufferingburns. There was no imme­diate report on the number of crewmen aboard the DC-8 of the Ecuadorean company AECA. Witnesses said the plane smashed to the ground after the tail section struck the metal fence surrounding the airport. Airport officials said the cargo plane was on a Miami­Quito-Guayaquil flight. -AP 

A dense northwoods fog yesterday kept Pope John Paul II's jetliner from landing in Fort Simpson, Northwest Ter­ritories, the Indian outpost where he was to have delivered a message of hope for Canada's impoverished natives. Indian leaders said the pontiff, who was flying on to Vancouver, B.C., would try to land here again today, the 11th day of his 12-day Canadian tour. The papal jetliner, a chartered Boeing 737, arrived over Fort Simpson about 10:30 a.m. ( 12:30 p.m. EDT) but was diverted to Yellowknife, 250 miles to the east, where he put his message to the Indians on tape for broadcast later if he is unable to make up the Fort Simpson leg of his tour. Despite the prayers of 3,000 Indians and Eskimos gathered before a giant "papal tepee" here, a cold and dense fog clung to this village into the afternoon. -AP 
A 23-year-old San Diego woman who received a man's heart in transplant surgery four years ago delivered a healthy baby girl, apparently the first successful birth by a heart recipient, doctors said Monday. "There is no indication in medical literature that this has ever happened before," said Dr. Thomas Key, assistant professor of reproductive medicine and director of perinatal medicine at the University ofCalifornia at San Diego Medical Center. "There have been pregnancies, but they have never gone full term, usually because the cardiac patient did not want to." Betsy Sneith of Spring Valley wanted to have a baby so much that she went against her doctors' recommendations to ..abort the pregnancy, said Dr. Howard Dittrich, Ms. Sneith's cardiologist. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Church and the Rights ofthe Family is the topic ofa lecture to be delivered tomorrow in the Law School. James Hitchcock, professor of history at St. Louis University and chairman ofthe board ofthe Catholic League for Religion and Civil Rights, will deliver the speech at noon. Theology professor Father James Burtchaell, Law Professor Carol Mooney, and law student Terry Brady, editor-in-chief of Notre Dame's]ouT"lJ(l/ of Law, Ethics and 

Public Policy will respond to Hitchcock's presentation. The lecture is sponsoredby the Law School's Thomas). White Center on Law and Government. -Tbe Observer 
Columnist and humorist Art Buchwald will 
speak at a luncheon today to benefit the Red Smith Writing Scholar­ship Fund of Notre Dame. Buchwald, a popular political satirist and author, will speak at the Capital Hilton in Washington, D.C. The luncheon is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Washing­ton. -Tbe Observer ' 


Weather 
Sunnyandpleasanttoday with 

highs in the upper 70s to low 80s. Clear and cool tonight with lows in the low to mid 50s. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 80s. -AP 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Edltor................. Guillermo Suarez

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is Design Assistant .................. Claire Kneuer
published Munday through Friday and Layout Staff................................... Andy Saal 
on home football Saturdays, except Typesetten ................................. .... Vic Sciulli
during exam and vacation periods. The Tracy Bringardner
Observer is published by the students of News Editor................................ Mary Healy 
the VniveBity of Notre Dame and Sai!lt Copy Editor.......................... Keith Harrison 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez 
purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se· Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan 
mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46';56. 
Features Layout......................... Bob Henke ND Day Edttor ............................. Earl Baker 

The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction 
Ad Design .................... AnnaMarie Furleigh rights are reserved. 
John O'Connor Pbotograpber... .......................... Phil Deeter 



The Hoosier: whatever it means, it's not that bad 
It is pretty obvious why Arizona is called The Grand Canyon State. Anyone can find out what a Buckeye or a 
John Mennell 

Tar Heel is. Texans can tell you that The Lone Star State 
Assistant News Editor 

gets its nickname from its history as an independent 
republic, but ask some natives oflndiana what a Hoosier 
is and you will likely get many answers. 
l_nside Wednesday·· 


I thought that a state that has been around since 1816 
should have a clear explanation of its nickname, espe­
cially one that has been used in print for more than 1;o 
years. The search for this explanation brought me to the term is probably a specialization or extension ofdialect. 
Memorial Library where I found some answers. Actually Hoosier may originate from the word hoojee or hoojin 
I found many answers. which were dirty persons or tramps much like the 
A publication from the Indiana Historical Society, · mountainmen of the southern Indiana-Kentucky area. 
dated 1907, provided the many possible answers. Encyclopedia Britannica does not provide a clear 
One possible origin was derived from the word definition either but rather sums up the feeling of the 'Hussar.' As the story goes, Col. John Jacob Leh­word. 'Hoosier' it says "remains a symbol in the nation's manowsky, who served under Napolean, settled in In­lore for a kind ofhomespun wisdom, wit, and folksiness diana in the early 19th century. Lehmanowsky, for some that harkens back to what is popularly regarded as a less reason or another, crossed into Kentucky where he en­hurried and sophisticated period in history." gaged in a dispute with some The 'Hoosiers' around this natives. He attepted to iden· campus have heard, along dify himself by announcing with everyone else, many that he was a 'Hussar.' It was derogatory statements understood by the natives as about their state and 'Hoosier' and later related to wonder if Father Sorin was all persons coming from In­in his right mind when he diana. chose this location for Notre 
Another possible explana-----r Dame. Indiana is not as back­tion is related to the name wards, dull and empty as Southern Indians gave to the these statements and many opperators of flat-bottomed -of the explanations of boats, 'Hoosa men.' It was _ 'Hoosier' would lead you to then applied to all men com­beli.eve. Indiana is only the ing down the riverways, 38th largest state but still it many of whom were from has the 12th largest popula­what is now Indiana. tion. There is a lot of 
One story relates to the farmland but there is also
,Mfl'l,,_,,

building of the Louisville­much manufacturing. Portland Canal. There was a When I was looking to go group of workers from In-to Notre Dame, I liked the diana whose foreman's name was Hoosier. The men idea ofliving in Indiana. I saw it as a good thing rather who worked for him were called 'Hoosier's men.' Again than a bad thing. I am not from this state but neverthe­this might have prompted people to call Indiana natives less I would not be ashamed to be or be called a Hoosiers. 'Hoosier.' 
The dialect of the Cumberland area also provides a lead to the beginnings of the nickname. The word 'Hoozer' applied to hill dwellers and expressed un­
The Observer publishes its official opinion
couthness and rusticity. This applied to the pioneers 
in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­
who settled the hilly southern halfof the state and who 
column article on the Viewpointpage. These
lacked sophistication. The pioneers of southern Indiana were fighting men 
columns represent the opinion of a majority as well. The term 'Husher' applied to men who would 
of The Observer editorial board. All other 'hush' others with fists to settle disputes. 'Husher' may 
columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­
have become 'Hoosier .' 
wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not

Although fisticuffs were common, the pioneers were necessarily reflect the views of the editorial
not totally inhospitable. A traditional greeting on the Indiana frontier was 'Who's there?' which, through 
board or The Observer staff. time, may have been formed into 'Hoosier.' Noah Webster (ofdictionary fame) surmises that the 

THE ANSWER IS 
\ :;li ~ 


vn11 
YOU 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 

DROll 



DRIIIIG 
lSI 
CR llll 
OFFENSE 
It's no accident 
University Ministry 
offers 
Pre-Cana Programs 
which meet diocesan regulations across the country 
PMI-Host Couple 
Pre-Cana Program Weekend 
4 sessions November 9-10 $15 February 1-2 
March 8-9 April 12-13 $65 
lfii 
OfFICE Of
Call University Ministry 
The Observer 

APPhoto
Blending right in 
Popejohn Paul// offers communion to nativeIndian ChiefShot 
Both Sides, leader of the Blood Tribe, as his wife Rosaline walks 
away, during Mass atNamao, Alta., Monday. 
S()f.IECOURSES IMPROVESCORES­WE IMPROVES TUDENTS,TOO! 
BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
* test-n-tape library *reinforcement test *homestudy packet 
CLASSES STARTING IN OCTOBER 
1717E. South Bend Ave. 272-4135 

!*********************************~ 




~ CD lEIIIa® 
... 
... 
...
: PROUDLY SALUTES : the FIGHTING IRISH! 
~ 
,. We invite you to enjoy the most deliciously : different food in town. Our tacos. burritos. : nachos. tostadas and our Taco Salad in the -tc bowl you can eat are just made for you. 
~ 
*
*
* 
~ 
* ~ 
* 
~ ~
* 
: Plus we•ve opened our brand new drlve-thru: t to serve you. * .. * 
-tc So if you•re on your way to the pre-game ~.. ~ party or hungry after the game be sure to ** : stop in. To help you celebrate we·re offerln~ : you two winning valuesl : 
.. 
~ --------,
: lr 1Hh 1 ol f'll'-1;o111 J H J~ • I 
t socoff i 
:...  Thco  S I da a  I1  
;~ ~'iC.  SO< ~':~~pnce1"1.1~\ll'loll.\f'l IHI\llltl't1,\\llt'11KIJIIH'Iot,ll\.111 ''""' tot,,. 1' 1"1 H l'l H'tt' 11 f< \·'II 'Ill (,1 )411J "lilt ·\'\ 1J1 tU H 1 lttl I( 1 ·"II HUII'-U•floo,\.,llll\l.!I•Uiti""IC.tltll)ta'l\  ~  
:  TACO BEbb  II  
: ~  ~Jtmmli?t~_) I L••H-l K ~\PIKI~ \H'I~\1H~K I""' l-------­ 
~  

* 
r--------~ ~ 
I. THI'd'Ol J>o•..t;ooiJ FOR ~ I * 
i TACOS i!

$1 9911 *~
I1 1 
~~ ..:~~'"'' '"~"'""'".'"""' ~~ *~ 
, ll\lll "'''''lt'ti"'I'IHrtN'''''1 to!\l\ll 
'' 

* 
11 1,, 01 It I ~I lit \'\ I H HI H I lfll ~ I \'II w~:•l\!l'll•l'\\llll'l)•:tl•l'ii"'"U 1 •'1\ 
I 1 TACO BEbb I 1 ~ I ~Jtmdtflt!J'"-< I ~ 
l~~~~':!!f~!!._~ _j *
* 
\*********************************~ 
Wednesday, September 19, 1984 -page 3 
New director of Campus Ministry at SMC plans for support groups 
By CAROLYN GILLESPIE 
News Staff 

There is a new face on the Saint 
Mary's campus. Her name is Mary 
Feeley, the new director of Campus 
Ministry. 

Originally from Minnesota, Feeley has travelled throughout the entire United States and has taught in japan. She earned her B.A. at St. Benedict's in Minnesota and later returned to teach at her alma mater. She continued from there to obtain her M.S. in educational administra­tion at Indiana University. 
Feeley is currently completing her dissertation for her doctorate in ministry from Saint Mary ofthe Lake in Illinois. Feeley said she is excited about her new job, which she heard of through friends in South Bend. 
I 
get  in  touch  with  their  own  
spirituality.  
To  help  students in this  area,  

,
, 
1 1 
1

U.S. balloonist crash lands in Italy 1 1 
~

after first solo trans-Atlantic flight 1 
~ 
However, this is not Feeley's first stay in the Notre Dame Community, because she used to work at Holy Cross in Pastoral Ministry. Feeley is "thrilled to be back at a women's college and anxious to get things un­der way." 
Feeley said that her most im­poratant goal this year is to let students know that Campus Ministry is there for all who are involved with the community. Much ofthe empha­sis in the programs she wants to develop depends upon student in­volvement. She is committed to the better education of women and believes it is important for people to 
Feeley is now trying to design a retreat program where a continuity 
Assoclated Press 

SAVONA, Italy -American adven­turer joe W. Kittinger, completing the first solo balloon flight across the Atlantic, crash-landed his 10-story balloon in rain and strong winds yes­terdzy, breaking an ankle but making history. 
"You just have to go for it, go for it. That's the American way," a chipper Kittinger told reporters at a Nice, France, hospital about two hours after his silver and blue craft slammed into trees on a mountain near Savona. 
He was flown from the crash site to the hospital by helicopter. 
The journey of his helium-filled craft, "Rosie O'Grady," began Friday in Caribou, Maine, and ended more than 3,500 miles and nearly 84 hours later in the rough mountains on the Italian Riviera. 
Kittinger also set a world distance 
record for a solo balloon flight, ac­
cording to his backup crew in the 
United States. 
Before being taken in for X-rays, the 56-year-old, Orlando, Fla., bal­loonist said the landing "was an in­teresting one." 
He called his injury "embarrassing," but added it was a small price to pay for the triumph.· 
His friend Cheryl Reed said in a telephone call from the St. Roch Hospital that Kittinger's right ankle was broken and that he now had a plaster cast on him up to his knee. 
But she said he was "elated and euphoric." 
Six other people have tried the solo ocean crossing, but all failed and two died in the attempt. A three­man American crew of Maxie Ander-
Court postpones execution of convicted child murderer 
Assodated Press 

STARKE, Fla. -A federal appeals court yesterday blocked today's scheduled execution of child-killer Aubrey Adams shortly after it granted a temporary stay for con­victed murdererJames Henry. 
A three-judge panel of the 11th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in At­lanta gave Henry a 24-hour reprieve until 7 a.m. tomorrow and said it would hear legal arguments at noon today. 
Henry could still face execution because his death warrant does not expire until noon tomorrow. 
Adams won an indefinite stay from a different three-judge panel, which said it would allow attorneys extensive legal arguments before a final ruling. 
The executions had been sched­uled to begin at 7 a.m. today. Henry would have been strapped into the electric chair first, because his war­rant was signed first. It would have been the nation's first double execu­tion in 19 years. 
~ "Chips" Michiana's New-t Night Spot 233-43S8 Wed. Nite Spuial Uidies Nite .... Mixed Drinks 1 j;r I live Bands .... Dj's .... Danu Floor._ .. No Cover! *Located: Take Eddy St. to Mi$h. Aue ... First Stop Light Tum right 






Jrefatu! 

Information Meeting 
TONIGHT 
6:30p.m. 
Carroll Hall Madeleva Classroom Building SMC 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
can be developed in terms of reflec­
tion and selfawareness. 
Additionally, Feeley is interested 
in how resident assistants and Stu­
dent Government are involved in 
Campus Ministry. By working 
closely with these groups, Feeley 
hopes to reach out to more students. 
Some of Feeley's other ideas are discussion groups that focus on is­sues of sexuality, group support for those suffering from family deaths or illness, and discussions challenging people to see the life beyond the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's commu­nity. 
Another goal for Feeley is to feel "as though there isn't anyone on campus who hasn't in someway been touched by those in Campus Ministry," she said. 

, 
son, Ben Abruzzo and Larry , 
Newman was the first to conquer , 
the Atlantic by balloon in 1978. 

Kittinger was a record-holding , ~ 
balloonist even before this flight, a , 
parachutist and a decorated military 
pilot during the Vietnam War. 
Italian aviation officials said the 
"Rosie O'Grady" touched down at 
2:08p.m. (8:08a.m. EDT) about six 
miles northwest of Savona in nor­
thern Italy. 
Kittinger said in a telephone inter­
view from the hospital: 
"The winds were pretty strong when I landed. I couldn't go any fur­ther. There was a big thunderstorm on the other side of the mountain and I was in mountains and the wea­ther was pretty bad and the winds pretty brisk. 
"I landed in the trees. I got thrown out of the basket, the gondola, and I hit rather hard from about l 0 feet or so and I rebroke an old injury I had from parachute jumping many years ago and actually I rebroke some bones that had been broken before." 
HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
from the Student Activities Board 
will be distributed evenly among the 
dorms. Each dorm will recieve 
S737.57 to be used for hall improve­
ments. Bernie Pellegrino, president of Dillon Hall, said the distribution "seemed the fairest way possible," despite the difference in population of the dorms. 

'I'YPING 
•Term 
Papers •Resumes *Letters *Manuscripts 

•Word 
Processing 


CaD Chris At: 

234-8997 


The Observer Wednesday, September 19, 1984-page 4 

APPhoto 

Cuban refugee was among 9,706 immigrants sworn in by U.S. Magistrate Peter Palermo in the ceremony at­tended by Vice President George Bush. 
~ 
f ( ( l I I 
Thoms said in a telephone conversa­tion with the Moscow bureau of the Associated Press. "They will tell us nothing about that." 
In Washington, the State Depart­ment said yesterday it has lodged a formal protest against Soviet han­dling of the case and expected the seamen would be released within 48 hours. 
Thoms told the Associated Press 

that Soviet officials have been asking 
them to sign papers acknowledging 
they were in Soviet waters. 
"They want us to sign many 

papers," he said. "We did not inten­
tionally violate any laws, but we do 
Correction 
In yesterday's "Of Interest" column an incorrect date was given for a speech at the LawSchool by Dr. James Hitchcock ofSt. Louis Univer­sity. The speech \\ill be tomorrow at noon. 
$$$ forYoarCiab 
Need funds for your club or activity? Raise $100 or $10,000 with NESTLE FUND RAISING • South Bend area man ager will help you with your fund raising from start to finish. Call 291-3720 NOW for your free samples! 

Navy Nursing 
2 careers in 1! 
F~RST --You're a Navy Nurse. You work in a Professional prwironment and have the opportunity for advanced train1ng. You are also in an im­mediate supervisory position. 
SECOND You are a Navy officer. This in­cludes travel and adven­ture. Your salary and ben­efits are comparable to CIVIlian nursmg. 
REQUIREMENTS 
BSN degree. or a three.. year diploma with one year related experience. 
SEND YOUR RESUME TO: Navy Medical Programs Rm 643 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis, IN 46204 
OR CALL KATHY SCANLON TOLL FREE: "i-800-382-9782 

town ofUrelik. 
(616) 6 8 3-74 7 4 

SENIORS 
who have not yet signed upfor Senior Portraits may do so this week by calling the DOME office 
239-7524 
evenings between 7 and 11. 

a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Tradition for over 30 years. 
....just ask anyone! 
WlHOfllt4•eo• 



o_"'lT('\ ,~ 
Get the scoop \• 



cJ(J 

on The Observer's news depart­ment. If you signed up for news at Activities Night or if ·you're in­terested in joining the news staff, come to an organizational meeting Th~rsday night at 7 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Hall. If you've got a nose for news, check it out. 



~_,._,._,-..;-..,r~J"'J"'...crJ"'...rJ"'J"'J"'J"'JCY'J"'J"'.,A:rJ"'.;O""J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'...OC: 
1 
SLC* i 


I IFINDOUTABOUT: 
TheSalteMa•••:dChagaU T·Shkt•, ~ 
1

§ the Most &citing. Avant-Garde Club oa Campus. § 
WHEN?

1I 5:30 Thurs. Sept. 20 I! § The Snite Courtyard ~ 
I IConfused? Call239-5466 
~ If you've signed up...you're expected. ~ 
::rJ"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'JC"'"JCY'J"'J"'J"'~J"'J"'J"'J"'~J"'J"'J"'......o"'"J"'J'"..r..rJ~..oo-..;'".r...rJ~ 

JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 
CHA.IRMAN APPLICATIONS 
Available September 18-21 in the Student Activities Office. Applications are due on Friday, September 21. Interviews will be held Tuesday, September 25. 
' . ''' .. ~ l 1, '• ., I 1 ,, ; 'II .... '-: " f 
"'------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, September 19, 1984 -page 5 



Parent shows concern for student problems 
The walls enclosing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's crumbled last week, and 
students explored the frontier -the city of South Bend. South Bend Mayor 
Roger 0. Parent met with student leaders from both campuses Thursday, and 
Sunday acted as host at a free picnic and day at the East Race Waterway for all 
freshmen at both schools. Thank you, Mayor Parent, for welcoming Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's to South Bend. 

Although most of the world locates both institutions in South Bend the
' 

two schools founded their own "muni~ipality," Notre Dame, Ind., complete with their own zip code. Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's pride themselves on the residentiality of their campuses. Over the years it has become one of the factors that draws students to these Indiana schools. 
In meeting with Rob Bertino, Cathy David, Lee Ann Franks and Carrie Alter­gott, Parent acknowledged the distance between the campuses and South Bend. He expressed his desire for better student-community relations and noted that students are not a different breed. They have many of the same problems and needs as the rest ofsociety. 
In a time when. students are looking beyond the hall party for social and cultural life, it is refreshing to find a man such as Parent who is concerned for the students. From his actions last week it is apparent the mayor is inviting and even encouraging Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to become a part of the South Bend community. 
Through his actions Parent has demonstrated a sensitivity to student prob­lems. The mayor wants to work with the students to improve their social lives. If these lines of communication and action remain operating, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can take even more pride'in their residentiality and sense ofcommunity. The difference will be that the community will be a few square miles larger. 
The Observer 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to the columns, articles and illustrations printed this newspaper, but through 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address issues which have not been raised to your satisfaction in this newspaper. Viewpoint encourages all of its readers to fully expore and voice their opinions. Simply sendyour letter toP. 0. Box Q or deliever it to our office. Letters should be no longer than 150 words in length and guest columns should not exceed 600 words. All works must be signed. 




Cuomo wrongly labels abortion as 'religious' 
In linking his stance on abortion to his speech concerning the appropriate relation­ship between religion and politics, Governor Coumo did himself a grave injustice as an ob­viously thoughtful, intellectual man. When the governor includes abortion among "religious issues", his personal opposition to it among "religious values" and the "result(s) of religious training and experience", he appears a spoon-fed Catholic, swallowing Church doctrine just because he is told. It has never been the role nor the intent of the Catholic Church to force feed its foUowers. I am opposed to abortion not because I am Catho-
Terry Donovan 
guest column 
lie, but because I recognize the unborn child as a human person and accept the inviolability of human life. Abortion is a question of "human rights" -not religious belief. Respect for the civil liberties of others, first among these being life itself, calls upon our "humanity," not just our theology. Abortion is one of many "life issues" -such as nuclear arms, capital punishment, poverty and world hunger -which transcend the boundaries of religious affiliation. In actually, very few truly "religious" issues pose dilemmas for elected officials. 
To attribute the anti-abortion movement exclusively to the church not only inac­curately identifies a question ofhuman rights as a religious one, bm also insults the mul­titude of non-Catholics who oppose abortion on ethical and human grounds. The folly of this misconception is magnified if Gov. Cuomo is indeed correct in stating that statis­tics show Catholics "support the right to abor­tion in equal proportion to the rest of the population." 
Much ofthe support abortion seems to have in this country stems from apathy, not active or conscious endorsement. Waiting until a consensus of understanding makes anti­abortion legislation "effective and enforeable 
prohibition", and in the mean time supporting 
Medicaid funding ofabortions, Gov. Cuomo is 
scarcely attempting to find "ways to avoid" 
them. Endorsement by inaction is analogous 
to l.he idea ofsins ofomission and sins ofcom­
ission. True, we must teach respect for human 
life-changing laws alone will not put an end to 
the abortion issue. Since you cannot legislate 
the human heart, a reversal ofthe 1973 Roe vs. 
Wade decision would be only a partial success 
for the pro-life movement. 
Abortion is only a symptom of a complex social malaise. Gov. Cuomo is correct in that "there is work enough for all ofus", work that we shall still be called to after the passage ofa human life amendment. There is a disturbing paradox, however, in condemning abortion on demand through federal funding while feigning to "teach" others it is wrong. Further­more, can society afford to wait until all laws are understood and accepted (therefore "effective and enforceable") before it enacts them? The "political realism" Gov. Cuomo espouses would have had slavery continued until a "consensus" recognized the person­hood of blacks. Seeing how prejudice lingers still after the civil rights movement, one can imagine how much longer slavery would have existed in the U.S. 
As agreed before, respect for the unborn and for al(human life must be fostered -legal change alone would be an incomplete ac­complishment for the pro-life movement. But if the holocaust were going on again today,' would Governor Cuomo advocate, in the in­terest of "discretion" and "political realism", continued killing (be it "by the state" or the "choice" of individuals) until a consensus of Nazis were made to understand the in­humanity ofthe master race theory? Let us not pay a human price for such "pragmatism." 
As it is a question of human rights, we should not involve abortion in the debate be­tween religion and politics. Neither should we allow ourselves the luxury of inertia in the political arena under the guise of"respecting and enjoying a.pluralistic democracy." 

Teresa Donovan is thepresident oftheND­SMCRight to Life. 
1 
1 
1 
., ~ 
, 
1 1 
, 
, 
, 
,
, 
,~ 
1
, 
, ~ 

Warning: Patriotism is dangerous to your health 
I was off gallivanting in Britain at the time the Republican Convention was held this year. Not that one could escape it mind you. Flip on any one of the television channels.­BBC or 11V -and you could catch the long, mindless commercial which was all the Dallas event was. 
British journalists had a field-day. They were incredulous that Americans themselves would blithely hand the world such vintage fodder -a political t:onvention sans serious 
Anne Pettifer 
guest cloumn 

polities, vulgarity galore and a shamelessness about the possession of wealth which caused even the most cynical Brit to blanch. These people, parading across the screen, were folk for whom the Jewish prophets and Jesus had preached in vain for whom the covenant of justice was just another sour, pinko conspir­acy! 
I watched with some amusement as seasoned journalists like the BBC's Charles Wheeler cast around for descr i ptions, trying all the while to suppress a vast indignation. When faced with travesty, objective reportage is not easy. In the end, indignation and ridicule gave way to alarm. Wheeler remarked that had the conventioneers worn uniforms instead of funny hats, those Dallas days would have shocked the world more readily with parallels with other, sinister, times in our century. 
Editorials and articles in British newspapers were quite explicit in this point. Europeans are more alert to the smell of fascism than Americans. That this is so doubtless has to do with the fact that the most virulent expression of this evil took place in Europe. There is, however, another explanation for American complacency. This country has long had an immunity to domestic manifestations of the virus. Sure the Klan is acknowledged as the unacceptable face of domestic fascism, but let us reflect on how long it took us to wake up to the machin-ations ofthe detestable Republi­can senator from Wisconsin, Joe McCarthy, or for that matter, to feel any sense ofshame over the persecution and deportation ofimmigrant groups and pacifists before, during and after World War Lit is a disturbing fact oflife in this country, that most school children are never aquainted with the darker side of American history. Yet, coming face to face with our dark side, whether individually or collectively, is one important route to maturity. 
The emergence of some kind of political maturity in the United States is periodically hampered hy outbursts of patriotism. we are in the middle of one of these spasms right now. Patrioutism is a vicious, sick and cheap emotion which has often served as a harbinger of fascism. Patriotism is not at all the same thing as good citizen'>hip. Good citizenship re­quires effort, thoughtfulness, prudence and humility. Good citizens listen and obsen·e; they do not bully or hector. Good citizens, like good Christians, are self-critical servants. 
Writing in the Manchester Guardian, vet­eran columnist James Camerson confessed to being very frightened by the Dallas flag-waving. While conceeding that British politics are frequently potty, the Dallas performance struck him as puerile parody. He went on to say, "One can reject Communism or dislike it, without feeling the obsessive need, as Reagan does, to shout ones disapproval aloud at every breath. Indeed, I have heard the psyc­hologists' theory that the loudest screaming anti-commies are akin to the uneasy queers who must forever denounce homosexuals." Cameron was making the point that when we cannot deal with our own fears and instincts, we frequently project them destructively onto others. laurens van der Post made the same observation years ago about racism in his book The DarkEye in Africa. It has always struck me as interesting that the mentality of the super-patriot does not vary from country to country; it makes absolutely no difference whether the country is Communist or Capitalist. In the heart of every super-patriot there lurks the germ ofintolerance. 
At a party last week, Governor Jack Gilligan slipped me a pamphlet he had received invit· ing him to to join the "Repulican Presidential Task Force". Mischievously he suggested that I might make use ofit! The Task Force's chair­man, Indiana's Senator Richard Lugar, offers charter membership at S120. The hard sell depends entirely on the exploitation ofpatrio­tism (not to mention the exploitation of the Presidential office; the United States is coming more and more to resemble the late-Medieval church. where everything was for sale accor­ding to the 14th century chantry clerk William Langland, author ofPiers Plowman). Charter member would receive a medal of merit -es­pecially commissioned by President Reagan ­a lapel pin and a ceremonial flag. Membership would also allow the member's name to be "inscribed on the President's Honor RoU and be kept forever with his permanent papers". The whole thing smacked more a pharaohic cult than the rational pursuit of democratic politics. 
Here at Notre Dame we particularly need to ponder the connection between patriotism and fascism, for a new muscular Catholicism, politically right wing and patriotic, heedless of an individual's right to be dealt with cour­teously or even fairly, is roaming the country. It has taken up positions on the fringes 11f Notre Dame. This kind ofCatholicism, and its model of church, conforms almost perfectly to Karl Popper's description of the closed (totalitarian) society as a place which is run according to a blueprint, where the leaders cannot be subjected to criticism or removed, and where the blueprint's dogmas (howevt·r flawed) prevail willy nilly. 
Smdents unfamiliar with the history of this particular strain of Catholicism, would do well to read a new biography by A. N. Wilson of Hilaire Belloc -a triumphalist, muscular Catholic if ever there was one. Rabid anti­semitism was a big part ofBeUoc's pathology. He would also have preferred a church with­outjesus ·he found him personaUy distasteful: "the feUow was a milksop" he declared. 
this species ofCatholicism, with its easy af­finities with fascism, is a dismal, wretched and irrational phenomenon which in time burns itself out. You and I are then left to clean up the rubble and the casualties it leaves in its wake. 
AnnePettifer is a Notre Dame alumna. 

t 
[ 
r) 
l 
l 
"ie~P--O_i~n~t__________________________________________w_e_d_n_es_d_ay_,_s_ep_t_e_m_b_er__I9_,_I_98_4__~P~a~g-e_6 
( 
Professor Rice levies unwarranted criticism 
In a statement released to the Observer last week, Notre Dame Law Professor Charles E. Rice made the following remarks on the occa­sion of Mario Cuomo's appearance at Wash­ington Hall: "Mario Cuomo, Geraldine Ferraro and others would like the voters to believe the 'pro-choice' position they espouse is actually a 'pro-life' position. Whatever the intent ofthe 
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 

theology department, one effect of the invita­tion to Governor Cuomo will be to legitimize that claim as at least debatably authentic." In addition to this, Rice criticized the theology department, who invited Cuomo, and Father Richard McBrien, its chairman, saying that the result of the invitation would be to "aid him (Cuomo) in perpetuating this fraud." 
I must admit that in writing this article, I am fighting a tremendous urge to respond to Pro­fessor Rice in a sarcastic way. I am trying to refrain, however, for two reasons. The first is that sarcasm has the undesirable effect of alienating those to whom you are trying to 
P.O.BoxQ 
Why wasn't the speech held in a larger arena? 

Dear Edttor: 
lb.is letter is in reference to the planning and logistics surrounding the visit of Gover­nor Mario Cuomo to the Notre Dame campus. 
Why was the speech scheduled in Washing­ton Hall? Given the current interest in the relationship between theology and politics, and its role in the presidential election, the Notre Dame administration must have known that interest in Cuomo's speech would be high. Why wasn't the speech in a larger arena, such as the ACC? I think the ACC would have been an excellent choice. If it was not possi­ble, I would like to know why. (If the speech was in such a small auditorium to assure a packed house, and make the speaker feel good, I still do not think those feelings are more important than those ofthe hundreds of students denied admittance to Washington Hall.) 
After standing in line for at least an hour, I 

witnessed the mass ofstudents that bolted for 
the doors when the doors opened at 7 p.m. 
That was the only way students could hope for 
entry to hear Governor Cuomo. 
Such poor planning with regard to ex­
pected attendance shows a disregard for the 
student body and our interest in our world. 
I would like to know what happened. 
Eileen E. O'Brien Graduate studmt 
No political party has monopoly on morality 
Dear Editor: 
The latest craze in the political sweepstakes 
appears to be portraying oneself as holier­
than-thou, and we, as Catholics, must beware. 
Most disturbing is the manner in which some 
church leaders, such as New York Archbishop 
·O'Connor, have jumped into the fray. While 
no one should criticize the Archbishop for 
defending our faith and its teachings, (most of 
us are as fiercely opposed to abortion as he is), 
we Catholics must carefully examine which 
church policies he and others conveniently 
ignore. 
Why is there no questioning of the presi­

"Peak to most. The second is that Rice's 
charges are indeed serious, and I have little 
doubt that there are a number ofpeople who 
share his point of view. Its just that what he 
says is so off the mark and so unsupportable 
that not only do his words invite parody, they 
almost seem to parody themselves. 
In turning first to Rice's charge that Cuomo, 
Ferraro and "others" would like the voters to 
think that "pro-choice" actually means "pro­
life," one would have to respond to Rice by 
asking him "where have you been?" I canno"t 
speak to the "others" that he refers to, but 
both Cuomo and Ferraro have been ques­
tioned constantly in the national media about 
their views on abortion, and both have stated 
quite clearly that while they personally 
oppose abortion, they will uphold the law that 
allows those who desire abortions to receive 
them. One can certainly criticize Cuomo and 
Ferraro for their views, but it is hardly ·credible to accuse them of not being clear. 
Not only this, but how would Rice know 
what Cuomo and Ferraro would like the 
voters to believe? Can he read their minds? 
Clearly, all Rice is doing here is speculating, 
and since his speculation is to contrary to the 
facts, one is hard pressed to take what he says 
seriously. 
Rice also charges in his statement that, through its invitation to Cuomo, the theology department is "legitimizing" a "claim" that is not "debatably authentic." Now, granted, this university may be the premier Catholic insti­tution in the United States, but to suggest that a point of view is not "legitimized" until it is recoginized by the Notre Dame Theology De­partment is, obviously, an absurd overstate­ment. 
And just what does Rice mean when he say~ "legitimize?" Or, better still, what does he mean by "debatably authentic?" I have always thought that insofar as someone sincerely believes in a particular point of view, be it on abortion or whatever, that this sincerity was criteria enough for its "authenticity." Rice seems to imply, however, that something else is required. Indeed, he seems to imply that moral rectitude is also somehow involved in the "authenticity" of a point of view. If this is in fact true, I wish Rice would inform us (since he seems to have priviledged access to the truth about morality) as to which points of view are "debatably authentic," so we do not waste our time debating those which are not. If this is not true, perhaps Rice ought to take more care in what he says, for his words smack of the kind of suppressive dogmatism that is 
dent over his support of the death penalty, which our church strongly opposes? Why does the Archbishop ignore the pope's words concerning nuclear proliferation, wh~n he makes public statements concerning candi­dates? Is the compassion of)esus and His great love for the "damned, despised, and dis­enfranchised" evident in the president's policies? Ifcarried to its logical extension, our analysis must question a president who has been divorced, and is not exactly a record­setting church goer. 
Clearly such exersices reduce us to Falwel­lism. Though he denies it, I'm one who feels that actions speak louder than words, and that's why we can say that the Archbishop conveniently ignores these and other issues in the zeal to elect his man. Finally, my purpose is not to endorse a candidate, it is merely to demonstrate that as Catholics, we must take great care not to be duped, as perhaps some of our church leaders have, by the dangerous trend of politicians and politics will, through human nature, remain related to one degree or another. But let there be no doubt that no single political party has a monopoly on morality, however defined. 
Patrick E. Sweeney GraceHall 

Thinking that is a threat to world peace 
Dear Editor: 

I object to the apparent implication made by Chrisjulka in his Viewpoint column that to be religious is to be conservative. I am sure Julka did not mean anything approaching this. I think this confusion results from the abuse or casual use of labels like "liberal" and "conservative," "right" and "left". No doubt there are many people who might be consid­ered politically conservative that support or condone a woman·~ right to choose concern­ing abortion, and many people who would be considered liberal in their politics who oppose abortion. Just as we can not ade­quately judge someone's political orientation by their stand on abortion, neither should we attempt to gauge someone's "religiousness" or religious sincerity by this measure. Terms like "conservative" or "liberal", when applied to people who hold a view on an issue, such as abortion, are often used by proponents ofone view to disparage the judgement ofthose who hold opposing viewpoints. "Liberal" is a dirty word to a "conservative". The term "liberal" as used by many "conservatives" here at Notre Dame often takes the form of a filthy name, and so we read many editorials and letters to the editor that are not so much discussion of issues as simple name-calling. 
I think it would be preferable for all par­ticipating in public debates, such as those cov­ered in The Observer, to try to stick as much as possible to strongly supported arguments, pro and con, and avoid as much as possible the mere iteration ofone's own views and the sub­sequent denigration of the opposing view­point as "liberal" or "conservative," as if the label alone would indicate the validity of the viewpoint. 
Again, I am certain Julka did not intend to appropriate solely for the use of political "conservatives" the privilege of being sin­
•
cerely religious. My criticism is not aimed at him but at the misuse oflabels which are often poorly defined to start. 
The point of all this, of course, is that such ill-defined labels as "conservative" and "liberal" often only serve to confuse or con­ceal arguments, and further remove us from the real heart of many issues. 
Peter B. Manzo Senior 
Boycott home opener for the good of all 
Dear Editor: 

The comprehensive nature of the network of alumni, students and friends of the Univer­sity never ceases to impress me. Sunday mor­ning following the Purdue game, sandwiched among telephone calls of consolation and in­dignation form the faithful, and provocat1ve calls from the Irishphobes, I received an ini­tially troubling communication from South Bend. A friend told me of the fans' boycott planned for the September 22 home opener against Colorado. 
I say that the call was troubling because the idea seemed divisive and extreme. I recognize the necessity for unity, and consider myself 100 percent Blue and Gold. And, I believe in the preemptive importance of digr.ity and honor at N.D. But, there is unquesticnably a cloud over the campus that is perhaps so more at home onJerry Falwell's program than on the campus ofa Catholic university. 
Obviously, I have not succeeded in avoid­ing a sarcastic tone in this article. However, this is not because I have anything against Pro­fessor Rice personally. I don't. It is because I am disturbed that Rice is being critical of the ll1eology Department for doing precisely what they ought to be doing, that is question­ing, listening, learning and teaching. It is the tradition of the Catholic church to give voice to disagreements and doubts, no matter what issues they concern. The Church believes that it is through such conversations that everyone grows and moves closer to the truth. Cat· holicism is not a faith that entrenches itself in an isolated sectarian world, nor is it a faith that dismisses the divergent views ofothers as not "debatably authentic." It does not place itself above or apart from the whole, but rather it embraces the whole. Thus, there are no views that the Faith summarily rejects, no matter how offthe mark they may seem to be. 
Not even, I might add, those of Professor Rice. 
Vernon Marchal is a senior in the Program ofLiberal Studies and is regular columnist for the Viewpoint section. 
divisive as to require a strong, and perhaps 
radical, offensive. 
I understand and agree with the Goodness ofGerry Faust, the man. Regrettably, I cannot deny that a coach at N.D. with an 18-16-1 record, with talent equal and probably super­ior to any in the country, has irrefutably proved himself inept. I must also say that tl1e idea that it would be less than honorable to not honor the full term of Coach Faust's con­tract is invalid. Quite simply, in coaching as in any other profession, a proven inability to get the job done demands that the employer remove that individual. I do not believe that this position demonstrates a lack ofloyalty or compassion, but rather a confro'ltation of reality, however painful. 
So, in the iight of an administration that seems unable or unwilling to face facts, per­haps a public demonstration is mandated. I support the boycott, and urge others to do the ­same. 
I wish nothing but the best for Coach Faust, but more importantly for the University I wish a return to the football glory She so deserves. 
Robert]. Keady Lake Park, Florida 
Don't be seduced by Cuomo's double-talk 

Dear Editor: 
As one ofthe many students who witnessed Gov. Cuomo's speech, I was appalled at the students' reaction. If Cuomo has substituted murder for evety time he said abortion in his speech would the student body have given him such a standing ovation? 
· Granted, the man is an incredible orator. Granted, that he claims to espouse a seemingly logical position that advances soci­ety. But didn't Adolf Hitler also fit this descrip­tion? Please, people, don't be so easily seduced by political double-talk. The man has prostituted his personal values and integrity for political expecJiency. Is such a man worthy ofour praise? 
Paul Douglas Morrissey Hall 

=-_ --The .Observer--== Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Ed1toun-Ch1ef. . . . . Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager . , . Dave Taiclet Managmg Editor . . .... Mark Worscheh Controller . . . ...... Maripat Horne The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. . Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager .. Anne Cull1gan Un1versity of Notre Dame du Lac. and Satnt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily News Ed1tor . . . . . . . . Sarah Hamilton CtrculatJOn Manager. . . .. Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either inst1tution. The news isreported as News Ed1tor . . . . Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as ObJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opin1on Samt Mary"s Ed1tor ..... Anne Monastyrskt 
of a maJOrity of the Editorial Board Commentar~es. letters and the Inside Column Sports fdttot. . Mtchael Sullivan present the views of the1r authors. Column space is avatlable to all members of the V1ewpomt Editor . Dave Grote 
commun1ty. and the free expression of varying opintons on campus. through letters. Features Ed1tor . Mary Healy tS encouraged. · Photo Edttor. . . . . Pete Laches 






Showcase 
Wednesday, September 19, 1984-page 7 

VOice of Irish wants to be heard loud and clear 

elapses, regularly schedueled ~

has acquired two brand new Tech­The Observer /Chaitanya Panchal 
The DJconsole at WVFI newscasts should be part ofa nor­nics turntables and a cassette deck 
mal day. Most major athletic con­•

which should improve the sound ~ 
tests, meaning football and 
4

somewhat. Transmission, though, apply for an FM license first began available), but rather because of the the backseat status WVFI has always basketball games, will be broadcast
remains VFI's most imponant obsta· last spring, only one non­prohibitive cost ofsetting up an •
taken in University priorities. Ifthe over the station, so ifyou can't getde to good sound quality. It does commercial FM frequency entirely new FM station, estimated University decides to appropriate to the game, turn on VFI. A 
not transmit signals through the air, remained for the South Bend area. 
at about S80,000. According to the money, many staff members will Speaking ofSports, with host •
but on a carrier current system. In Because Notre Dame already Holzberlein, this may have been for •
see results before they graduate. Chuck Freeby, airs every Tuesday Aother words, the signal comes to owned an FM license for WSND FM the best because, with the ex­Presently, WVFI's concerns cen· night from 10 to 11. It's the exclu­your stereo through the electrical 88.9 (WVFI's neighbor in O'Shag 

panded range ofan FM station, VFI sive program for all Irish and na­•4
ter on bringing Notre Dame thewires ofyour building. That's why and a highly resJ>$cted fine arts 

would become less ofa student best radio possible. Hozberlein tional sports with frequent ~ battery-operated radios don't get 
station throughout the area), and oriented station due to public ser­apologizes for the frequent lack of interviews, football previews, and
the station. because other qualified institutions vice and educational requirements DJs on the air. He realizes that a -summaries ofall major lea-gue •4Currently, the station is waiting also applied, WVFl employees were ofnon-com.mercial frequencies. 
monotone hum is no way to build action. Calls and comments ~ for funding from the University for told that procurement ofa license In addition to new transformers, an image. Last week Hozberlein welcome. Rock OverLondon, airing ~ nine new transformers which was nearly impossible. Disap­the University also has an outside auditioned 30 D)'s, 15 ofwhom will every Thursday night from 9 to 10,

would make the sound quality in all pointed, the sEffturned its hopes to private firm researching the possi­go into regular shifts. Within two features news, music, and inter­• dorms as good as that ofLaFortune, other options such as a studio move bllity ofAM st-ereo. A move to •weeks, he promises a full schedule vie_ws on the latest from England. A A 
where the sound is very clear. Ifthe to LaFortune, conversion to AM 
LaFonune is planned for next fall ofDJs with no dead air time. 4
recent program premiered U2's

funding comes through in the next 
stereo, shared FM time on another with brand-new studios and state of WVFI believes its drawing card to new single "Pride (In the Name of J few weeks, according to Kurt station, or installation of new trans­the art equipment. lfall goes well, 
be the station's format. Unlike U93 Love)." Nocturne Nightflight, for ~ Holzberlein, station program direc­formers. 

there's a chance both may become ~
and WAOR, WVFI is not rigidly top those late-nighters after VFI signs

tor, the transformers may be in­The University has recently realities next September. A
40·or hard rock; rather, it specialize off, runs from midnight to 2 everystalled by tall break. withdrawn its FM application, not The obstacle to improvement is in progressive new music. That ~
night on WSND FM 88.9. Program· Why hasn't WVFI gone FM? It's a because ofinability to obtain a funding. All this research into means VFI plays Spandau Ballet, ming includes rock, new music, and

long story. When proceedings to frequency (that last one is still various options may mean an end to •4
Naked Eyes, Ultravox, the jazz. 
•~


Navy ROTC more than a job a vacation • • j ~ • 
ate with the enlisted personnel, catch up on sleep. "I was home for a company, anchored right next door 
•

by Margaret McCabe whereas seniors on first class total of 18 hours," says Brenton, "I to it was her majesty's royal yacht, • 
features staffwriter cruises associate with the officers. found out that my ship, which was Brlttanta. • One such cruise (unique in that it is supposed to have left from Norfolk In the other ports there were A a two month trip), travels to the Virginia on the 16th, had already more receptions and at times greet· •~ 
n this our third week ofclasses, As a senior in the Notre Dame ports of England and Ireland. Bren· departed and was headed for Pueno ings from city officials. Civilian Ithe hazy days ofsummer already Navy ROTC program, Kevin Bren­ton, second in command of the Rico." Kevin caught the next flight tours ofScott were also held in the 
~ 

may seem like a distant memory. ton had many such experiences last Notre Dame midshipmen, was to SanJuan and finally reached various ports for which Brenton 
~ 

Unless, of course, your summer was summer. All NROTC panicipants thrilled to be one ofthree assigned Roosevelt Roads, Pueno Rico and sometimes acted as tour guide. marked by an experience that isn't are required to take a month-long to this cruise. what was tobe "home" for the next There was time however for some 
~ 

cruise during summer breaks. Un­tours ofa different nature. While in '
easily rubbed out by the return to After finals and a long trip home two months·· the995 U.S.S. Scott, a 
• ~ 

South Bend weather and the same derclassmen are assigned to third to Connecticut last May, Kevin guided missile destroyer. pon, every day on duty was fol­old routine. class cruises on which they associ-couldn't even blow off a little and After three days ofon board lowed by two days off·during which 
4
training for midshipmen offof Brenton and others visited spots 
~ 
Roosevelt Roads, Scott departed ·· such as The Stone Henge in destination: nonhero Europe where Portsmouth, the sites of Paris and 
~ 
it would visit the pons of London, a new "Beatles" museum in 
~ 
Portsmouth, England; Brest, France; liverpool, and the Blarney Stone Plymouth, England; Cork, Ireland; Castle in Ireland. "The Irish know •~ liverpool, England; and finally how to party," notes Brenton as he 
~ 
Douglas on the Isle of Man, a small reminisces about a few pubs he island between England and visited in Ireland. Kevin's favorite • 
Ireland_ "The cruise could be hot spots, however, were the described as primarily a friendship casinos found on the Isle of Man, a cruise.~ says Brenton, meaning resort-like island which was the 
friendship with other countries was final stop before heading home. stressed more than military train· ing. In the various ports, Scott was Ofcourse all play and no work warmly received. In Portsmouth, doesn't make the Navy what it has officers were welcomed at a recep· to be. So to and from Europe and in tion for the dedication ofa "D-Day" between ports, there were no days museum. Brenton, who had ofliberty and no shuffle board on qualified as a junior Officer on deck the "Lido Deck." All were required on the way to Europe and an officer to participate in drills and more on deck in port, was in attendance training. Even considering this, (I along with the Queen Mother and don't know how anyone can deny it Queen Elizabeth. "I must have been and I don't know how I can resist the lowest man on the totum pole saying it) Kevin Brenton's summer at that reception," admits Brenton. of'84 was not just a job. but The ship itself was also in regal an adventure! 
________.. 


-----,. ~r .~.--.-~,..-c-<~...,--~----------------------------------------------· 
.. 
Wednesday, September 19, 1984 -page 8



Sports Briefs 
The ND women's cross-countryteam ran in Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Monday the Hillsdale Invitational last weekend in Hillsdale, Mich. Julia ~-\ 
through Friday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor Merkel, Allison Cameron, Elizabeth Vogel, Susan Wanchow and 

of Lafortune. Briefs must be written clearly. · The Observer Kathleen Lehman were the top finishers for the Irish. Notre Dame will host the National Catholic Meet this Friday, September 28. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team defeated Gos­The Domer Six-and three-mile runs will be held Sep­

hen yesterday, 8-1. The Belles play at St. Joseph's College today at tember 29, and the deadline for entries is today. Finishers of the

·1.­
3:30p.m. A story on the two matches will appear in the Friday edi­six-mile run will be awarded T-shirts, and three-mile finishers will

tion ofthe Observer. -The Observer 

get sun visors. Trophies will be awarded to the top finishers in both races. The entry fee is 13 for the six-mile run and $2 for the three­mile run. · The Observer 
Colorado football tickets are still available at gate 10 ofthe ACC. The tickets are 116 each. ·The Observer see BRIEFS, page 9 
Read 
Psycho Chicken 

Sobering
Advice _.· ~ 
ca_nsa'(e 
·. 


alife 

I NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL BRIAN 3677. Need 2 Miami GA"s S $ $ Call Mark 277.· Hi Marie! ... You look very nice today ... SCOTTIE: LAST REPORT RECEIVED 6464 FROM THE CIA WAS THAT A SHORT TUBULAR MEMBER WAS SEEN
NEED 2 G.A. & 3 STUD'S TIX FOR S.C. 
,____N_O_T_IC_Es---Jj l..___w_A_N_TE_D---J 
HELP!!!!Rich brother coming to Col

GAME CALL PAUL 2834 Need 2 GA's for either Air Force or South HITCH-HIKING TOWARDS WARRICK 
game. Need 2 student or GA tickets
Carolina. Call John at4113. STREET. HE WAS BRUISED, ABUSED soon!! If you can help, call Dave at 1753

Will trade 2 Penn State and 2 Air Force AND SOMEWHAT USED! COULD IT 
as late as necessary.

GA'S for 2 MIAMI GA'S call Roger at3207 NEED$$ FAST? Sell Mom & Dad's ND­BE?? YES, IT'S HOOTIE!! -HANK· Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? 
SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming ............ ···················· ···•············ Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­O.C. STUDENTSIII Pick up your copy LSU tickets!! Call Laurie at x451 0. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the scum! Yes,
........ ···------······················ .......................•

venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT of the OC I'MtW8Ietter today In
NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET. CALL COLORADO GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 Hennessy is 20 today! All his enemies Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (23~ Lafortune. 
wish him well: Sic, Myers, Boyle,J.C., andFELICIA AT 284-4146.
ROTC Buiking. (239-6264) 6264) I NEED 3 COLORADO GA'S BADLY Big DanM. 
Oh my! It's that guy Larry Burke! 

STUDENT TICKET needed for PLEASE HELP, CALL 1709
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,55~ 

· HETAOSEXUAL HUMAN(s) WANTED. Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad· $50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call Fuzzy fever ... catch it! 
COLORADO game Sept. 22. Call Rob­

3305. NEED ONE SOUTH CAROLINA GA: SHARE EXPENSES ON LUXURY 2venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob 805-687-6000 Ext. R-9634. 
MUCHO $$$: STEVE 3059 BDRM APT. CALL!!! 256-6676 (Except
. ... ........ . 
Skinner or CPT Aflne Rieman in the Q:WHY ARE RESIDENTS OF INDIANA 

during: Fri. Night, or Sat. & Sun. After­ROTC Buiking. (239-6264) Aide Wllnted to PURDUE! Any and all CALLED HOSIERS? A: BECAUSE THE
NEED 3 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKETS 

TO THE COlORADO GAME. FOR NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'S AS SOON noon) 
weekends. Call Tina at 277.-0151 or Shir· WORD DORK WAS ALREADY TAKEN. 
VISITING ALUMS. CALL OSCAR AT AS POSSIBLE CALL KATHY AT 2956Wordproc:essing and typing. 272-8827 
ley at23~5303. 
Keenan Back-Bus SEXtet: There'll be no

277·31155 IF YOU HAVE ANY TICKETS ENAD 
................... ·············· 
OHMYI 
full moon but a tailgater-our room' BYOTYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. TO SELL It's that guy. 

... ........ .......................•••.••••••••• TWO COLORADO STUD TIX FOR SALE St. Pauley Girl-we've got the rest . Call!
riiti«i ·'f~stiiiiS": ·s·weiiis:··..iei-S8Yii:· (ii.C"?"?? EARN EXTRA INCOME. PICK YOUR -call 232-4525 or 283·277.0. LARRY BURKE Katie, Shelly, Swell Mel. 
PARENTS DON'T CARE HOW BAD WE call ALL SPORTS forthebestbuy!!! (312) HOURS, DAYS AND PLACES TO ARE. NEED 2 COLORADO TIX. CHRIS 281-6886 WORK. EASY PLAN. WRITE JOE-NO, 

1072 I NEED ONE SOUTH CAROLINA GA. Barabbas, Missed you too Friday night51625 CHESTNUT ROAD, GRANGER, SMC COFFEEHOUSE IS HERE AGAIN·
CALL ME AT 1457. The no show was due to cocktails atTeel's LINEA 1 is the coffee house that serves IN46530. !! TAKE A STUDY BREAK AND COME
Will give you two tix for Colorado game if with Mario. As for seeing Mario, I was 
the best cappuccino this side of the RELAX! FAST AND MISSAD PER­
you can gat me two rooms reservations Will give two Colorado GA tickets in ex· trampled in the Cfowd and am in traction. revere!! NEED RIDE TO lA. CITY FRI. SEPT 28 FORM, WED. SEPT.19th 9pm-HCC
on Fri. & Sat., 10/S & 10/6, for Miami change for two Air Force tickets. Cai133S9 Have any sympathy-Call SMC 5261 Little 
WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL STEVE CHAMELEON ROOM!!! 
game. Call collect312-774-8370, ask for blonde-haired girl Join the Cappuccino Club at LINEA 1, AT 2647 RayBolk.
1631 E. Edison Rd.. located in Edison HOI..Y COW! Cub Fans HQ John 1042
Need One Penn State Student Ticket. SCOTI, I'm going to stick with you ! Plaza a 5 min. walk from the ACC. need 2 air Ioree G .A.s need 2 air force Marty 1043
NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S!!! Call Mike 277.· Call Cheryl x4392 (SMC) MSBF G.A.s call steve in 4 19 St. Edwards hall, 3918$$
2742 I'LL DIE 4 YOU 
I NEED A TICKET FOR COLORADO Precious, Your Royal blue eyes turn me 
I'LL DIE4 YOU

Have:2 COLORADO GAs. Will trade for 1 BAD! Help? Call1346 inside out. Yours truly. 
TRAVEL ENTHUSIAST NEEDED!!! I'UDIE4YOU
Colorado stud. tic and Cash. Call Jeff at
LOST/FOUND I 1049

Gampus Rep., to sell Ski Trips to Midwest WOULD YOU DIE FOR ME? 
Zeus 
& Colorado & Beach Trips to Caribbean. 
I am quite honored to receive 
Earn cash & free trips. Call (3 1 2) 871­Help!! My folks never saw Notre Dame, messages from such a god·like being.

LOST LOST Woman's gold watch­1070 today! Or write: Sun & Ski Ad­We all Wlk about how "Chrlatlan" \IIIII
but now Notre Dame is coming to my par­Truly your divine nature shows in the ef­
TimeK. Please if you find it or have found it ventures, 2256 N. Clark, Chicago, IL PERSONALS -·butlaltjuat words? Aernembel' the
ents. But they don't have tickets to the fect of your daughter upon Irish football 
call Kim at4114. 60614. old axiom: Ktton. apeek louder than
Missouri game. That's where you come fortunes. NO never hada chance againstwords.
in. Sell me your pair of Missouri tickets. I the Seductress. 
LOST: ONE WHITE DRESSER WITH 5 NEED XTRA $$ CALL THE YELLOW don't have alot but, whatever I have will be AMortal 

DRAWERS. LAST SEEN BEHIND FAR· SUB 272-4453 HAVING PROBLEMS SPEAKING IN 
yours. if you sell me your Missouri lix.

LEY AFTER CAVANAUGH/FARLEY PUBLIC? The N.D. Toastmaster's Club
CALLBARBAT284-4418. Thanks. I thought that she knew 
HALL STORAGE. WHO TOOK IT? Desperately need ride to Columbus, OH h elp! Informational meeting Wed.
And she thought that I knew. can GET THE SCOOP ON THE NEWS DE­PLEASE RETURN. CALL CATHY 2662. 9/21 around 12:30 I have to be home to 8oth of us were willing, Sept 19at6:30p.m. in223Hayes-Healy. Come to a ~ling this
PARTMENT. 

crown this year's homecoming queen! Thursday at p.m. Room
But we didn't know how to do it. 7 in 118 LOST: 3 KEYS AND N.D. KEYCHAIN. 2 Cal13474, THANKS! Meriel 
HELP MEII Nieuwland Science Hall and find out all 
ROOM KEYS (335) AND 1 SMALL KEY. ARTS A LETTERS BUSINESS SOCI­
I need 3 GA's and 2 student tix for the -Elvie Coatello about THE OBSERVER news depart­Lost on 8/31. If found, please call Kevin at Need ride desperately to ETY: Informational (FIRST) Meeting.
~game and I need them now! My ment. Anyone interested in becoming a 3047 BLOOMINGTON, Open to all. Wednesday, Sept. 19,7:00 to
parents are flying out for the gameand will member of the news staff of the student ·············· I.U. disown me if I don't get them. Help out a !!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE 7:30. Rm 122 Hayes Healy. newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint LOST: NECKLACE THIN GOLD CHAIN Friday Sept. 21 will share $$$$ Call ED 
good cause and call Joe at32~. 2822 Mary's is welcome. WITH DIAMOND PENDANT, IN Wo­1160. 
MEN'S LOCKER ROOM AT ROCK. IF Kevin is a d·brain 
Marc Ramirez -Madder Than Mad In '84 Rick Rick Rickage ... YOU PICKED IT UP PLEASE CALL WOODSTOCK! POUGHKEEPSIE! If 
Gimme gimme gimme gimme some MELONNI AT 2731 OR BAING IT BY 407 you're going to, through or near any of 

Colorado lix. I don't care how many. just BONARE! BONFIRE! BONFIRE!BADIN.. these places for October Break, I NEED A 
gimme gimme gimme. Gimme gimme OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. BONFIRE! CARROLL HAUl RIDE!! Will share driving and expenses. Colorado lix. Gimme ·em CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE I DE SPERA TEL Y NEED A RIDE TO
gimme some LOST: Black, pushbutton, collapsible can Maribeth 1211 YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO OR VICINITY
now. Gimme. Call the Ali&n at 2539. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. To : Pam, Henry, Rich. Ross, Ed. Fritz. 
umbrella at Mr. D's during SerJor class THIS WEEKEND. WILL SHARE EX· Janet, Mary, Connie, Mary Me, Laura, and party thurs. nite. Call 232 • 0660 or leave PENSES. CALL MATT AT 2937. 
I NEED 2 GA TIX TO COLORADO, ATTENTION SENIORS the guys in Grace and Dillon who called to 
at Lost & Found. Hi Mindy! 

MIAMI, AIR FORCE, AND SO. Available from 9/14 to 9/21 are applica­wish me a happy b-day ... thanks for 
,• FOR SALE 
CAROLINA. PLUS 7 USC TIX. IF YOU tions for SENIOR FORMAL COMMIT­making my ·22nd so special!!' MaybeWould whoever has my Russian texlbooll CAN HELP ME. CALL277-1306. TEES. Aplications may be picked up at DELICIOUS SANDWICHES Notre Dame isn't quite the same as Paris,and Byrns and Stone Economics texlbooll either LaFortune or Haggar. They are due DELIVERED MQ-TH 8pm-11pm FA-SA but who cares? • I had a great day
either put them back on the South Dining ............................. .. .......................... 

Need 3 Colorado Tix-GA's by 2:00 9/21. Bpm-tam CALL THE YELLOW SUB· anyway! ps. There's still lots of b-day cake Hall bookshelves or call Mike at 2492? For..,.: 
Call Kathy 3781 MARINE 272-4453 left, so if anyone gets the munchies ... let Celery green velvet chair, $50.00 
JUGGLER! 
them eat cake!!! 
LOST GOLD ADD-A-BEAD NECKLACE Call23~5930 or 291·9644 

JUGGLER! HAVE YOU A NOSE FOR NEWS? IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 284­
HEY, I NEED PENN STATE TIX. JUGGLeR! If you are interested in being a member of REAL WOMEN DON'T SWALLOW5062 a
PLEASE? I'LL BE YOUR FRIEND CALL Bring submissions to 309 O'Shag by Sept THE OBSERVER news staff attend •••• a .......................................................... . AKC COcker &p.nlel puppl• KATHY SMC-4344 21 meeting this Thursday at 7 p.m. in Room Pat "the vel" Murphy is now signingLOST: KEYS, Coat of Arms key ring; 9 weeks old. Red female, black & tan 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
................................ --··· autographs for his newly released book, . Room259~ Markx1154 male. Good temperment , Will trade 2 GA Colora..k> for 2 Miami. Call why do we kill people who kill people to "1001 Ways to use VELCRO"'. SIGNED Call23~5930 or 291·9644 
284-5085 show that killing people is wrong? Having car troubles? YOUR FLY To whomever accidentally took a white 
Call MR. GOODWAENCHIIII 
N.D. cheerleading uniform from the Badin 

Need 2 Miami Tickets desperately. Call ARE YOU FUNNY? PLANET CLAIRE: WE'RE THROUGH laundry Monday morning. I desperately STUDENT TICKET PACKAGE for sale, 
284-5085 The Observer needs you1 BEING COOL! BAT HATneed it! call 2467. best offer 1301 
The Features Department is looking for "Concerned Friend" ...................... ··············· 
NEEDED 2 MIAMI GAS $$$ call Mary humor columlatl and C8rtoonlata. If Obviously you haven't read the personals LOST : NAVY BLUE "JANSPORT" For Sale: 2 Colo. tix. Call Tom 1808. 277-8596 you are interested, call Mary Healy at23~ too closely. Hardly the picture of grief SCOTIIE: DID YOU GET THE LOAN OR
BACKPACK WITH 2 IBM FLOPPY 
5303 (why bother) I'm having the time of my life! 
DID SHE GIVE IT TO YOU FREE? JAKEDISKS (VERY IMPORTANn AND A For Sale: Colorado GA ticket. Best offer. 

wanted: I need three (3) GA tickets to the But a good friend of mine would have AEROTHER­Call Ted 1877. 
Colorado game. If you are interested in Need lour PENN STATE tickets. realized such. If you can't sign your name, GREEN LIGHT, TREY I SAY GO!MOOYNAMICSIPROPULSION 
selling me somefor big bucks. call ROD at Please call Mary at1333. mind your own (or his) business. TEXTBOOK INSIDE. PLEASE CALL for sale 1978 malibu station wagon needs 
1625. -Suzanne 
SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
TOMx1664 body work phone 288 0980. 

C.H.U.D. ........... ··················· 
.. ..................... ························· RIVERBOAT CAOOZEI 
NEEDED 2 sets of 2 or 4 GA's for MIAMI C.H.U.D. • Friday, Sept. 21, 6:30 to 11:00 PMlost: white NO jacket at Erskin CC Fri nite. student car for sale $200-50 Dan ]272­game. Very important' Will pay well! Call C.H.U.D. Cheryl, $6.00 per person. Umited of tickets'Has 10 in pocket. Please call Caroline -6457
.I Dan3438 C.H.U.Dfever...catch it! The camerl' is on the way! Now we can Advanced ticket sales in LaFortune: 
1822.1.--1 my stuff!! 
have picture proof of our upcoming ex­

Wed and Thurs during lunch and dinner. We really need tlcketl! GA or Student ploits!! Here's to a OfT zoom!! Fri during lunch. 
,, LOST: Friday lunch S. dining hall, blue LL 
to ·Szan Bean backpack. Inside was AL stats 
tlcketl for South Cerollna game. Is anybody going TeKas for mid· Bus service from the main circle. 
.I P.....call CATHIE at 4058 or BETH at semester break? I need a ride CALL SAM
TICKETS 
SENIOR RIVERBOAT CRUISE· DON'T) books, 2 notebooks, Tl calculator. GaM 2914. 4665 MISS IT!

John 3476/144 Morrissey. 

SENIORS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MIAMI TIX • Need 3 Miami tiK: GA's or stu· HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND If you want to go to NEW "';n.EAN~ ... Desperately need COLORADO TICKET dent· preferably GAs. Gall Mike 1644. TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT the Senior Class Trip, BUT Have NOT 
TO PEL'S MY PAL, I HOPE THIS WILL call JIM 3467 THANKS AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE Paid your Deposit. Well, PLEAZ C8H Bill 
BE THE HAPPIEST BIRTHDAY YOU NEED 1 COLORADO TICKET NICK· HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND at 288-4637 if you want my Deposit!' 
EVER SEE HAPPY 21! LOVE, MJM 
FOR RENT 

$$$$ BIG BUXXX $$$$ FOR lWO AIR 3584 TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT FORCE G.A. TIX CAll JOHN 283-1306 
... ······ ........... . AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE I NEED A COLORADO G.A. C.ll Deve at 
A.A. TOM. DRAGONS LIVE FOREVER BIG $$$ for 1 Miami Student or GA. Call Howard Hall'a 277-3153. 
BUT NOT SO LITTLE BOYS. JUST FOR

....':> 
SONY'S BEST TAPE, UCX-S $3.50ea NEED PENN STATE TIX-2 GA"S AND 3 Rich at 3200. Hat and Tie Party TRUST
THAT YOU'LL GET NO CUP 

$30/10 3681 STUDENT.CALL ROBIN AT 234-7319. Frldey Night APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING 
US SINCERELY, PUFF I NEED MIAMI TICKETS (GA AND/OR American Legion Po.t 303 TAKEN FOR THOSE WANTING TO EX­Unfurnished Apt. For Rent NEED TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL JOHN STUDENn. PLEASE CALL 4311 Be there. PERIENCE A WARP-SPEED 
Kris. Have a great 21at B-Dayl Love Carol 9 Blocks from N.D. 1023 HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND ENCOUNTER! YES THE KOSEXY
············· ········································ 2 Bedrooms, Uving Room, Ointng Room FOR SALE: Two tickets to the Colorado TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT MOBILE CAN REACH THE SPEED OF Michael Jackson, Ge."l8 Kelly, Elvis & now & Kitchen HELP!!! NEED 2 STUD. TIX OR GA FOR game -Call Jane at 4190. AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE LIGHT IN .01 MILES. (PREVIOUS PAs­"'SCOOTS MORRISON"' that Dantin Oil· $220 per month plus utiUti• & deposit COLORADO. WILL TRADE FOR PENN. HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND SENGERS INELIGIBLE) CONTACT lon Dude. catch his moves Break Dantin Call 232-8959 or 282·1983 ST. STUD. OR FOR S.C. STUD. KEVIN NEED 4 PENN STATE GA'S KEVIN 2n· TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT KAREN KOSEXY AT 3564 OR HER at its best. Free Lessons (Dillon's Ballet 277.·3954. 
5076 AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE MANAGERS AT 3183. room) 1629 call today 
The Obserr•er Notre Dame offiu.·. lo<:ated on the thin.! floor of Lafortune Student Center.-a1..Tepts dassifkd advertising from') a.m. until ·t p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserr·er Saint Mary's offin:. lm:ated on the third floor of Uaggar College Center, an·epts dassitkds from ll:jO p.m. until ~p.m .. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifinb i~ ~ p.m. All clas~ifil·ds must be prep:Jid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 c<:nts per fi\'e charac­





Classifieds 
ters er dav. 


The Observer 
Wednesday, September 19, 1984-page 9 

First home run was at same park 
Jackson hits SOOth career homer 
Associated Press Jackson joined a select group of put it all in perspective," jackson 
players who have passed the 500-added. "Aaron hit 755, Willie Mays 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -The nightmare homer plateau. Hank Aaron, with 660 and Babe Ruth 714." of 1983 is ancient history now for 755 career homers, heads a list of 11 Jackson's first homer came in the Reggie Jackson; who has joined a Hall-of-Famers who have accom· same stadium on Sept. 17, 1967, off dozen ofbaseball's finest. And he did plished such a feat. A 12th, Willie California left-bander Jim Weaver. 
• 

it I 7 years to the day after his odys­McCovey, who retired following the jackson, now 38, was then a member sey began -and in the very same bal­1980 season with 521, is not yet eli­of the Kansas City (later Oakland) lpark. gible for enshrinement at the Hall of A's. 
"I'm very happy for him," Fame. He was stuck at 497 from Aug. 12 ManagerJohn McNamara ofthe Cali­The homer, a towering trademark to last Friday night, more than a full fornia Angels said after Jackson hit blast into the right" field seats, had no month. But he hit No. 498 oft· his SOOth career homer Monday impact on a very important game · a Chicago left-bander Floyd Bannister night. "He worked very hard l 0-1 loss to Kansas City that left the Friday night and came back with No. through last year's adversity to what third-place Angels one-and-a-half 499 against Tom Seaver ofthe White he achieved tonight." games behind the first-place Royals Sox the next day. 
last year was a nightmare for the in the American League West. man called Mr. October. Jackson "It was one of the happiest home "I think 500 homers is a ticket to batted just .194 with 14 homers and run trots I have ever made," Jackson the Hall ofFame," saidJackson, who 49 runs batted in. said. "The only other home run I can as he has done so often stood at 
The milestone homer, on the first relate to this one is the third home home plate and watched as the ball pitch off Kansas City left-bander Bud run ofthe (final 1977) World Series soared far over the right field fence. Black in the bottom of the seventh game. In fact, the third homer was a "(But) I think winning, and what inning, was the 22nd of. the season greater thrill because we won the kind of leadership you give your for Jackson, who is hitting .235 and game to end the Series. club, are more meaningful. A lot of has 75 RBI. "I can toot my own horn until I guys who hit a lot less are in there." 
Ailment could be due to boxing 
Ali undergoes neurological testing 
Associated Press doctor traveling with Ali. Associated Press by telephone. 
Ali, 42, underwent five days of She described Ecker as a physician 
FRANKFURT, West Germany -tests at New York's Columbia Pres­who was traveling with Ali, but is not Former world heavyweight cham­byterian Medical Center earlier this his personal physician. pion Muhammad Ali was to return to month and left last Tuesday for a Ali was quoted as saying, "I always New York today for further neuro­business trip to Germany. feel tired but don't feel pain at all ... I logical tests, according to a televi­Dr. Martin Ecker also said earlier don't know exactly what it is." sion interviewer who talked to a tests showed Ali has "minor The former champion's speech 

symptoms" of Parkinson's Disease, has been noticeably slurred and said interviewer Birgitt Wolff. slow for the past two years. 
Ecker was quoted by Wolff as Wolffquoted Ecker as saying, "We saying that Ali would return to the believe the disease was not in­hospital. A spokeswoman at Colum­herited but actually could have bia Presbyterian said there would be come from boxing." no comment. Merck's Manual of Diagnosis 
The 30-minute interview, con­and Therapy, a reference book for ducted Sunday, was broadcast Mon­physicians, listed "cerebral trauma" day in parts of West Germany, as one of many possible causes for France and Belgium, Wolff told The Parkinson's Disease. 
what will happen this Saturday or the next. Will the team play like it

Irish 
did for the first game and a half? Or will it pick up where it left offagainst
continued/rampage 12 
MSU? 

Getting through college 

It was really an impressive perfor­We'll just have to wait and see. 
isn't easy. But help is on 

mance in the second half. Ad­The next few games will tell a lot.
the way. Because 

mittedly, it was against a team Colorado, Missouri, and Miami all
Domino·s Pizza is offering you financ1al assistance cin 

nobody will confuse for Miami or represent different types of games. 
your next pizza. The Pizza 

Nebraska, but it could prove to be Against Colorado, the Irish will be made with 100% natural 
the confidence-booster the Irish strong favorites. Missouri will repre­
cheeses and fresh. not 

needed. The schedule is going to get sent a very tough road game. And 
on 
frozen toppmgs. And we'll 

much harder, so the team needed a Miami is one ofthe best teams in the
deliver it, custom-made. to your door in 30 minutes or 

good performance under its belt. nation. IfNotre Dame can survive all 
less. GUARANTEED Call 

We have learned over the past few these games, then it will be time to Domino's Pizza and help 
years, though, to be cautiously opti­get excited. 
yourself to the best tasting 

mistic. While the second-halfperfor­Until then, though, we'll have to
pizza around. 

mance was outstanding, who's to say see ifwe get Dr. jekyll or Mr. Hyde. 

DOMINO'S 

Briefs
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ 

continued from page 8 
FREE. 

The SMC Athletic Association will hold an 
organizational meeting tonight at the Clubhouse at 6:30 p.m. All 
® 

who are interested are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The pep rally committeewill hold a meeting in the basement ofLafortune tonight at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The men's volleyball club will hold tryouts 
tonight at the ACC Pit at 7 p.m. All interested may tryout. -The 
Observer 

The SMC swim team will hold an organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Regina Hall lobby. All interested swimmers are encouraged to attend. If you have any questions, call Dan Flynn at 283-3852.-The Observer 
The skateboardclubwill hold a meetingtomorrow in the Lafortune Little Theater at 8:15p.m. All members are urged to attend. For more information, call Bob Guilday at 277-3877. -Tbe Observer 
An ultimate frisbee club is now being formed. 
The schedule will include weekend fall practices and spring games 
against Purdue, Ohio State, Michigan, and others. If interested, call
L1m1ted delivery area. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00 

Lance or Gerry at I588. · Tbe Observer 

,---. --~--~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, September 19,1984-page 10 

Associated Press 
DETROIT -The Detroit Tigers won their first American League East championship since 1972 last night as Randy O'Neal, making his first major league start, pitched seven scoreless innings and the Tigers beat the Milwaukee Brewers 3-0. 

Detroit, which has been in first \ place every day this season, is the \ first major league team to clinch a \ division title this year. ~ Lance Parrish drove in two runs \ and Tom Brookens belted a solo \ homer for Detroit as O'Neal and \ Willie Hernandez combined on a \ six-hitter. \ O'Neal, 1-0, who was recalled \ from Evansville of the Class AAA 
American Association on Sept. 5, ~ \ 
scattered four hits, walking one and 

' 
\ \ 
striking out six. He worked out of a

\ : 
bases-loaded jam in the third inning,

1 ·, 
then retired 11 in a row from the \ 
fourth through the seventh. 

\ 
Hernandez took over at the start 

y· 
of the eighth and earned his 30th 

\ 

save, striking out Jim Sundberg for the final out. 
O'Neal's only previous big league experience was three innings of one-hit relief last Wednesday in Bal­timore. 
The trigger to the Tiger attack, as it has been so often this season, was the one-two punch of Lou Whitaker and Alan Trammell, the first two men in the Detroit batting order. 
Whitaker walked in the Detroit first, went to third on Trammell's double and scored on an RBI grounder by Parrish. 
In the Detroit sixth, Trammell doubled, Kirk Gibson walked and 
Cubs' magic number remains at four 

Tigers' win clinches division title 
Voter Registration 

' . 
' l.\ Date: ~ >; 
1 
} \ 
l ' 
Time: Where: 

' J ',·' 
Parrish singled to drive in Trammell 
and chase Bob McClure, 4-8. 
Brookens clouted his fifth homer 
in the seventh on a 3-2 pitch from 
Mike Caldwell to the roaring ap­
proval of48,810 -largest crowd ever 
to see a Tigers-Brewers game in 
Tiger Stadium. 
At the start of the eighth inning, a 
large detail of police marched out 
and ringed the field. 
Pirates 6, Cubs 2 
CHICAGO -Lee Lacy and Johnny Ray cracked consecutive home runs in the fourth inning and Ray later added three more RBI to lead the Pittsburgh Pirates to a· 6-2 victory over the National League East­leading Chicago Cubs yesterday. 
The loss left the Cubs' magic num­ber at four. 
John Tudor, 10-11, pitched the first five innings for Pittsburgh, al­lowing three hits and one run while striking out four. 
Tudor left the game when his left elbow tightened up before the sixth inning. Don Robinson picked up his ninth save by working the last four innings, allowing one unearned run, two hits and two walks and striking out one. 
Dennis Eckersley, 8-8, was the loser, although he allowed just four hits and two earned runs in his seven innings. 
The Cubs jumped to a 1-0 lead in the second when Leon Durham drilled his 22nd homer of the season, equalling his career-high set in 1982. 


Drive 
(non-partisan) 
Wed. Sept. 19th Thurs. Sept. 20th 
11:30-1:30 
North and South Dining Halls 

\ .: Sponsored by: Notre Dame's Student ~ ' Government Lobby Commission \ 
*Register to vote for Nov. 6, 1984: this is 

\ \ ' 
\ ,• 
one election students cannot afford 

~ ,: 
) ,i \ . \ . 
J, ·, 
I ' ,~-----~~~----~---------------~
1 Perfect For Tailgaters I 


PARTYSUBS ! 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses &~Choice of Toppings 
3 feet serves 20·25 ... $35.00 4 feet serves 25·30 ... $43.00 5 feet serves 30·35 ... $52.00 6 feet serves 35·40 ... $60.00 
I I 
ALSO: MEAT TRAYS, CHEESE TRAYS & SALADS
I 
I the 
I 
I DELI
I
1 1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN I I1 
Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance I Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 1
I I
Jeff Etoll, owner, NO '78 I 255-7797 I
L------------cttp & save~-----------~ 
--.--.-.. -· ..··-. --. 

Eckersley retired the first 10 bat­ters he faced before Lacy cracked his 12th homer, a first-pitch shot to right field. Ray followed with his sixth round-tripper. 
Padres 2, Reds 0 

CINCINNATI -Dave Dravecky fired a three-hitter and Terry Ken­nedy drilled a two-run homer yes­terday as the San Diego Padres inched closer to their first National League West Division pennant with a 2-0 victory over the Cincinnati Reds. 
The Padres' magic number for clinching the division is four with Houston and five with Atlanta. Pend­ing last night's games, any combina­tion of Padres victories and Astros losses totaling four will give San Diego the title. 
Dravecky, 9-8, earned his first vic­tory since July 30 by holding the Reds hitless through 5 1-3 innings before Ron Oester doubled. Cesar Cedeno doubled in the seventh and Wade Rowdon singled in the ninth, his first major-league hit, for Cincin­nati's other hits. 
Steve Garvey played a flawless game to tie the major-league record of 178 games without an error by a first baseman. Mike Hegan ofthe Mil­waukee Brewers-Oakland A's played 178 consecutive errorless games in 1970-73. 
DOMER 
Six Mile Run 
September 29 at 11 am. 
and ne.., this year 
DOMER 

Three Mile Run 


T -Shirts ....... Six Mile Finishers Visors ...... Three Mile Finishers Trophies ..... All Division Winners 
$ 3 -Six Miles $ 2 -Three Miles 
Entries Available at NV A 
located in the ACC 
Deadline: TODAY 




GO NDI BEAT COLORADO! ANYBODY WHO'S ANYBODY ~oo:Jfl®~ IS AT... 
§~

... and Grill 
Join us this week to celebrate our upcoming victory over COLORADO! 
OJ QUARTER BEER SPECIALS
w 19quarter beers go GREAT with NACHOS come early and try our NACHOS 9-close 
DOLLAR IMPORTS
ThD.J 

20
try our dogs with an import 9-close 
F  Come on andjoin the crowd 6-8 $4 willget you: 1) brats & burgers 2) baked spuds 3)salad4) J4oz draft limited supply! Come early *after dinner, stay with us to Ring in our FIRSTHOME GAME!  21  

s  brats &PRE-GAME CELEBRATION hotdogs on the grills •*buy one ofour brown bag lunches for the game!* • (subs and more) POST-GAMEBLOWOUf!! Come visit with friends and family while CELEBRATING FOOD-DRINKS -FUN-MUSIC-FRIENDS DANCING-CElEBRATING  22  


BE PART OF THE FUN ... at SENIOR BAR 
~~---~~~~~-~-----------------------------------­


Wednesday, September 19, 1984 -page 11 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
K/&HT.. NOW I-· STeVe... 
5Wif! II'S M!t..O... U~N 
B!?£11/lft St.OMY-' /N. .. 
WHIIT 7 
10 M€... A !YIA&IWNt HilS 

()IJT, /N... OI/T... W./lP 
IJH. NO... THe
JIJ51 f'I!PliSHfP 60ftlt 

Mfl&fWN€ /SN'1
Ot.fl fHOIOS Of YOV 

"PF-NTffOIJ5e ~-­

Nf/Pt.l 


Tank McNamara 







Campus 

• 
Alumni Board Meeting, September 19-21, CCE. 

•3:30 
·'4,:30 p.m.-Computer Mlnicourse,JCL, Second Session, Open to Public, Free. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Science and Technology of Superconductivity," Dr. Ted Berlincourt, Office of Naval Research, Room 1 18 Nieuwland. 

•4:30p.m.-Microbiology
Seminar, "Hemolymph Proteins and Insect Subzero Temperature Tolerance," Dr. John Duman, ND, Room 278 Gal· 


· vin Life Science Auditorium. 

•6 
· 9 p.m. -Accounting Career Night, Second Floor of LaFortune, Sponsored by Notre Dame Ac· counting Association. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Informational Meeting, ND Toastmaster's Club, 223 Hayes Healy, Open to All Students Interested in Improving Their Public Speaking. 

•7 
& 9:40 p.m. -Film, "El Norte," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Govt. Dept. Kellogg In· stitute & Center for Social Concerns. 


•7:30 
·8:15p.m.-Lecture, "Scripture: The Per­sonal Teaching of God," Fr. Francis Cafarelli, ND, Little Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by John Paul II Lecture Series. •7:30p.m.-WillieNelsonConcert,ACC, $13.50 and S 12.50. 

•9 
p.m. -Meeting, Saint Mary's Peacemakers, Volunteer Services Office, Holy Cross Hall (SMC), Sponsored by Saint Mary's Peacemakers, Free. 



TV Tonight 

6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30p.m.  16  M•A•s•H  
22  Family Feud  
7:00p.m.  16  Highway To Heaven  
22  Movie · Cannonball Run  
8:00p.m.  34  Child  Sexual  Abuse:  What  Your  
Children Should Know  
9:00p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  

22 Special: London and Davis in New 
York 34 Sneak Previews 9:30p.m. 34 ·The New Tech Times 10:00 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 Mystery 
10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Magnum/CBS Late Movie 
11:00 p.m. 34 Movie · Treasure of the Sierra Madre 
11:30 p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
The Daily Cross-word 
ACROSS 35 Pertaining to 66 Bristle 22 Abandon 
1 Daughter of a taste 67 Slip away 24 Recede 
lord 38 Timeof 68 Trucking rig 25 Btack·and· 
5 Sacks happiness white bird 
10 Movledog 3.1 Cameo DOWN 26 Painting 
14 Muscat and -40 Avian cry 1 John -Passos adjuncts 
15 Consume 43 Entreaties 2 Drs.' grp. 
16 Fervale 3 Large knife 
45 Fix
animals 4 Audience's cry 28 Rent 17 Cloying 46 ~hip of mf'h 5 Get, in a way 31 Mode
47 Cdvity
19 Achievement 6 Sweep 32 Fabric Inter· 
49 Displaced
20 "The Children's 7 Of the ear woven with 
-" person 8 Bluefin gold
52 Sash
21 Still 9 Wheat variety 35 "Baptizee"
53 Cal. wine cit~
23 Native of: sun. 36 Merkel the 
56 Sins
24 Table cente•· actress
57 Sermon
piece 37 To boot 
59 Makes 10 WWI outfit 
27 Shred 38 Make sound 
palatable 11 In a pleasant 
29 Snack again
way
30 Long-eared 39 Sweet clover 
animal 63 Amerind 40 Mission 
64 Adorns 12 Prickly herb 41 Mental, for one 33 Croissants 65 Neighbor of f3 Fall flowers 42 Mournful cry 34 Certain worker Minn. 16 Keep close to 43 Stills 
WANTED: STUDENT PLAYERS 
producer director 
For Spring Production April 17. 18, 19 
-applications available 2nd floor LaFortune September 19-24! 
-any questions call Anne 1274 


44 Rounded 55 Excha!lge 46 To the opposite premium 
side 58 N.Z. parrot 48 Dissipate 60 Elec. unit 50 Metrical writing 61 Headgear 51 Bow 62 Travelon 54 Knitting stitch runners 
Due to transmission problems, yesterday's solution is not avail­able. 

;> 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Second Call ! 
for singers for "Sweeney Todd" on November 1 ,2,3 and 4th 
AUDITIONS: Thurs., Sept. 20 6:30p.m. room 221 O'Sbag 
ND/SMC Student Players 



'\ 


Tbe doubles team of senior Laura Lee and junior Susie Panther helped the Notre Dame women's tennis team to an easy win over the visiting Blue Demons of 
Doubles may be only weakness 

Notre Dame beats Dlinois, DePaul 
ByJOHN COYLE Senior captain Lisa LaFratta evened Panther, Colligan, Biafore and Sports Writer her record at 2-2 by beating Linda Dasso were all victorious in their Habis, 6-0, 6-l, while JoAnne singles matches. The Irish needed 
The Notre Dame women's tennis Biafore, a sophomore, easily bested only one doubles victory to secure team rolled to an easy victory over her opponent, 6-0, 6-0, for her the squad's win. After losing the first visiting DePaul yesterday, following fourth win of the season. Izzy two, the duo of LaFratta and Schnell a tough win on the road against Illi­O'Brien and Michelle Dasso both won the last match of the day, 6-7, nois on Saturday. had no problems in their matches. 6-3,6-4. 
The Irish dominated the Blue Saturday's win over Illinois was The singles team appears to be Demons, winning all nine matches. not nearly as easy. The Irish beat the very strong but there still could be a In fact, the Irish won all six of their always tough Illinois squad last year few changes. The doubles team is singles matches without losing a set. at home and they wanted to prove Notre Dame's biggest weakness. 
Junior Susie Panther, who seems that they could do it on the road this completely recovered from recent year. ''I'm not happy with the doubles," injuries, beat Michelle Ewers, 6-3,6-"We were gunning for that," Petro said, "but I'm not overly con­
4. Mary Colligan, also a junior,­Coach Sharon Petro said, expressing cerned. Doubles is a team game and thoroughly dominated her op­her team's sentiments. "We wanted the girls are accustomed to playing ponent, Kathleen Ulbert, 6-0, 6-0. to prove that last year was no fluke." together. It takes time." 
How improved are the Irish? 
Over the past three years, the Notre Dame football team has had a number of chances to win a big game 

Mike Sullivan 
that would have quieted most of the angry fans who 
Editor
have hounded the team since the disastrous 1981 (5-6) season. There was the 1982 game between 6-l-1 Notre Dame, fresh off an upset of No. 1 Pitt, and eventual na­tional champ Penn State. Last season, there were games with Pitt and eventual national champ Miami. 


Each time, however, the Irish have lost and, with each be as bad, if not worse, tb.an the past three years. successive loss, the howling has grown louder. Just when you thought it was safe to give up on the 
Even the Liberty Bowl win over Boston College Irish and Gerry Faust, though, they do something they hasn't been enough to convince fans that the Irish have had not done in more than three years -win a game in turned the corner. It was a good win, but many people which they were trailing at halftime. felt that Notre Dame should never have been there in Faust called it one of the great comebacks in Notre the first place. Dame history. Not quite. But it still was very impressive. 
Before the 1984 season started, most people felt the More importantly, the team's second-half play sig­big test for the Irish would be the Missouri game on nalled that this football team has the ability to play an Sept. 29 or the Miami game the following week. If the outstanding game when it needs to. The offensive line Irish could make it through thesetwo games unscathed, finally began to wear down the opponent, despite some it would be a good sign that this really would be the injuries which forced the coaches to call upon the line's year. depth. 
But things never work out as planned, especially The defensive line also was able to come through when Notre Dame football is concerned. Purdue beat when it needed to, finally getting a rush on the passer the Irish, making last Saturday's Michigan State game a and relieving some of the pressure on the secondary "must-win" game. An 0-2 record would virtually elimi­which is still struggling. nate any hopes of a good season, especially among the Finally, the coaches were much more effective at students who have lost some enthusiasm over the past halftime than they had ever been before_ They were three years. Add to this the fact that the Irish had yet to able to slow down the Spartan rushing attack that had prove they could rebound from a defeat, and it was ob­been so effective in the first half, and kept the players vious that the football team had a major task ahead. from getting uptight about the 17-3 deficit. It was a 

Will the real Irish 
please stand u. ? 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
Welcome to the Twilight Zone! 

For your consideration, the first half of last Saturday's football 
game. A team with an "amazing amount of talent" makes the high­light film into a disaster epic by making four turnovers in a variety of ways and handing their opponents a 17-0 lead in the first quarter. Sure-handed backs lose footballs, and passes fly into opponents hands with the greatest ofease. For those people not a(·customed to seeing these things from Notre Dame, it seems so strange. However, for many Irish fans, it's deja vu! 
For your consideration, the second half oflast Saturday's football game. This is just as strange. Tite Irish are throwing long passes on first down, shutting down the opposing offense, and even standing on their heads to block punts. Notre Dame showed excellent poise and character in coming from behind to win for only the second time during Gerry Faust's Irish coaching career. This is not what Irish fans have seen in 1984 ... this is good football! 
Now the questions arise. Which is reality and which is myth? Did the second half show the awakening of the 1984 Irish, or was it merely an illusion? If Gerry Faust was serious in his claim after the Purdue game that one game doesn't make a season, then he should also know one half doesn't make a season either. Faust is hoping the second half against Michigan State can serve as a catalyst for better things to come, and that is certainly the wish ofall Notre Dame fans. 
However, expectations of Irish fans have been raised before only to come crashing down to reality. Everybody is pleased with the victory, but they-also remember how badly the Irish played in the first half. Guarded optimism is the prevalent mood on campus this week, as the jury waits for more evidence before making their deci­sion. A convincing win over Colorado could put people behind the team for quite a while. A loss would be a different story. 
Injury Update... Right now, the training room is a busy place, as the Irish have their share of banged-up people. Alvin Miller joins Mike Larkin on the list ofplayers out for a lengthy period oftime. Tbc sophomore speedster underwent arthroscopic surgery for torn liga­ments in his left knee on Monday and will be on the shelffor four to eight weeks. 
Three other players remain questionable for Saturday. Captains Mike Golic and Larry Williams are still hurting from injuries suffered against Purdue, while linebacker Mike Kovaleski is suffering from a broken right index finger. There is good news, however, as Joe Howard and Ron Plantz look to come back to the lineup in good health. 
Buffido Chips... Colorado enters the game with an 0-2 record, but that isn't the real reason for the downcast mood in Boulder this week. Buffalo tight end Ed Reinhardt is currently in a coma, follow­ing two severe blows to the head in the waning minutes oflast Satur­day's game with Oregon. Colorado coach Bill McCartney and his team obviously have other things on their mind this week than foot­ball, but that probably means they will be even more inspired this Saturday. 
When the Buffaloes do take the field, they will rely heavily on the passing arm of quarterback Steve Vogel. Vogel is one of the nation's most prolific passers this year, and he has several excellent receivers. Junior split end Loy Alexander and sophomore tight end jon Embree have been Vogel's prime targets so far, but look for him to throw to his backs a lot on Saturday. 
On those rare occasions when Colorado wants to run, they will usually hand offto tailback Lee Rouson. Rouson ran for 121 yards last week against Oregon, so he certainly must be considered as a threat, despite a nagging thigh bruise suffered last week. 
Defensively, Bill McCartney's squad has been battered by injuries. Linebackers Barry Remington and Danny McMillen, along with de­fensive back Solomon Wilcots will miss the game with a variety of ailments. Therefore, the Irish will be looking at a rather unknown quantity across the line of scrimmage. However, one of the reasons the Buffaloes are 0-2 is the fact that Michigan State and Oregon enjoyed immense success running the football. Hint, hint, hint. 
Game Plan... You could even be a sportswriter and figure out what the Irish are going to do against Colorado. Considering that Notre Dame's offensive life outweighs by Colorado by nearly forty pounds at almost every position, look for the backs to have some gaping holes to go marching through. Hopefully, Steve Beuerlein will get t'.1e opportunity to throw his share of passes, but it should riot arise from necessity. 
So the question is, what will the defense do to stop Vogel? Maybe they should stick with the same game plan they used last year. The pass rush came to life for the first time all year, as Notre Dame limited Vogel to 90 yards through the air. However, this is another year, and the Irish must be prepared for anything that Vogel might throw at them. Believe me, if it comes from Colorado's offense, it will be thrown at them. 
Pickofthe Week .. Ifyou're looking for a national championship this year, your best bet may be found at the Courtney Tennis Courts. That's the home of Sharon Petro's .women's tennis team, which will entertain Wheaton Thursday afternoon at 3:30. 
The Irish finished third in the NCAA Division II tournament last spring, and are hoping to reach the top of the mountain this season. They're off to a good start this year with a 5-0 record, and certainly deserve more than a passing glance Thursday afternoon. 
l don't know how many people turned off the televi­much better coaching performance than we had seen at sion set or left Spartan Stadium at halftime when things Indianapolis. looked rather bleak to say the least, but there were probably quite a few who decided this year was going to see IRISH, page 9
{ 





