
Cigarettes -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. Number 24 till' indqK·mknt ~tudcnt llt'\\ ~papt'f ~t·n ing notrt danK and ~aint man·~ THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1984 

panelatyesterday's Industry Day, held In the Engi­neering Building. The display was part ofGeneral Motors' exhibit. 
an explanation of tbe new Corvette Instrument 

Wills would rather teach than write 
By TERRY BLAND As author of a dozen books in the fered me what they call Sla/J Reporter areas of American history, politics 'contributing editorship,"' said and literature, Profesor Wills has Wills. "1, in the meanwhile, had a 
Garry Wills, who replaces Max received the Merle Curti Award number of people ask me to write a urner as holder of the Welch Chair given for a book in American intel­syndicated column and turned them In American Studies at Notre Dame, lectual history and the National down." brings with him "a keen and brilllant Book Critics Circle Award. Now, however, Wills Is synd­Interpretation of both the past and As a speaker, Wills has also icated in papers across the country. present," according to Profesor lectured at such universities as Yale, His column can also be seen in The Thomas Strltch, acting chairman of Princeton, and the University ofMic­Observer every Wednesday. the American studies department. higan Law School. Through his writing, Wills 
Wllls, both scholar and newspa­Although Wills Is a journalist, he presents strong religious overtones. per columnist for Universal Press sees teaching to be his main interest. "I deliberately take it upon myself to Syndicate, "reflects the concerns of "I've always been interested in seek out the religious connections the department, which places the teaching," recalls Wills. "I studied in with various social aspects," Wills study of journalism within the the religious seminary with the idea commented. Wills is impressed by broader context of American soci­that I would be a teacher." the large role religion has played in ety and civilization," notes Donald With his main Interest directed our history. "We are the most religi­Costello, chairman of the depart­toward teaching, Wills' journalism ous, large industr.ialized country in ment ofAmerican studies. experience came along accidentally the world," cites Wills. 
Receiving a doctorate in I 961 at and in a number of stages. Wills By replacing Max Lerner as holder Yale University, Wills taught classics began his journalism career in of the Welch Chair in American and humanities at johns Hopkins graduate school, writing book studies, Wills brings with him a dif­University for 18 years before reviews for Bill Buckley , and ferent kind of teaching technique. joining the faculty at Northwestern editorials for the Richmond News His goal is to make people think and University in 1980. Currently, Wills Leader. is professor ofAmerican culture and Later, Wills began writing for 
see WILLS, page 5 public policy at Northwestern. magazines. "Esquire magazine of-

New calendar 'honors' women of Notre Dame for their achievements 
By MICHAEL ELLIOTT Holy Cross has pledged to donate SO SlaffReporter percent of all profits from the calen­dar to the South Bend Battered Wo­
The 1985 Women of Notre Dame men's Shelter. 
calendar, brainchild of residents of According to jordan, "In order to 
Holy Cross Hall, presents a new insure quality, the calendar will be 
twist on the traditional "calendar printed in full color, and all photog­
girl" compilation. raphy will be done by a professional 
This first calendar since last year's photographer who has specialized "Men of Notre Dame" calendar will in model portfolios." spotlight 12 women selected on the No price figures are yet available, basis of appearance, poise, and con­but the hall intends to keep the price tribution to the University. Selec­fair, although the color plates re­tions will be made by a quired for printing are expensive. seven-member committee from The final product should be ready by HolyCross. the Notre Dame-Penn State football 
George jordan,a junior from Holy game on Nov. 17. cross and the project's coordinator, Women who receive invitations emphasized that Notre Dame's are encouraged to respond to what calendar, unlike others, "will not be Holy Cross Hall residents term "a exploitive at all," and Is intended as great honor and compliment to the an honor, not only for the women women of Notre Dame." Invitations selected, but for all Notre Dame stu­for interviews will be delivered to dents. selected women of each class 
As a token ofthe hall's seriousness sometime during this week and next 
about the sincerity of the calendar, week. 
Lil' Sibs Weekend fate 

postponed at meeting 
By DAN McCULLOUGH George Rozum, South Quad rector News Editor representative and rector of Alumni Hall, said he polled most South Quad 
The fate ofthe U'l Sibs weekend is rectors and found similar reaction. still In limbo after last night's joanne Madden, chairperson for Campus Life Council meeting. the weekend, and Steve Taeyaerts, Reservations put forth by North co-chairman, presented their plan Quad rector representative Father for the event. Their proposal in­Mario Pedl, rector of St. Edward's cluded an organizational chart ofthe Hall, and Vice President for Student U'l Sibs committee, a letter of en­Affairs Father David Tyson killed a dorsement by Charles Lennon, exec­vote on the issue until the presenta­utive director of the University's tion of the event's logistics could be alumni association, an outline of presented to a meeting ofall the rec­registration procedure, a liability tors. release prepared by Professor 
Pedi said he polled most of the Charles Rice of the Law School, a rectors on the North Quad yester­sample register that would be used day and found overwhelming oppo­
see MEETING, page 5 
sition to the weekend. Father 

Is there discrimination in academics at Notre Dame? 
Editor's Note: This ts part four ofa The statistics reveal that men and percent of the total women, were opposed to any stereotypes. He said gineers also. This change has been five-part series focusing on the women do not choose enrollment in enrolled In that college. he feels that the preference of a wo­gradual. 
Issue ofsex dtscrlmtnatton at Notre the four colleges equally. Last year These figures indicate that man to enter the College ofArts and Another factor Berry said might Dame and Saint Mary's. Today's ar­5,566 students were enrolled in the proportional to the total enrollment Letters rather than the College ofEn­discourage the enrollment of wo­ticle examines the posstbtltty ofdis­four colleges; 3,959 men and 1,607 of women, the largest percentage of gineering Is decision that leads to men in engineering is that women crlmtnatton tn Notre Dame and women. Of the total men, l ,310, or Notre Dame women enroll in the societal questions rather than spe­are sometimes denied access to the Saint Mary's academics. Tomor­33.1 percent, were enrolled in the cific questions of an academic insti­necessary preparation for engineer­row's story will study the possibil­College of Arts and Letters while tution. ing. "The good background in math Ity of that problem tn the faculty 752, or 46.8 percent ofthe total wo­Professor William Berry, assistant and science that Is so necessary to and tenure decisions. men, were enrolled in that college. dean of the College of Engineering, ·engineering must start at the junior
9 d 
said, "Even In this day, women per­high school level." Berry said that By FRANK LIPO 1 ,069 men, or 27 percent of the ceive more career options in arts until that preparation is consistently
Sex Discrimination 
Senior StaffReporter total men, were enrolled in the Col­and letters." He added that there are available to all students at the lower 
lege of Business Administration College of Arts and Letters and that more career models in such fields as levels of education, there will be an 
Does the amount of women who while 369 women, or 22.9 percent the smallest percentage of women science and the humanities and that imbalance In higher education. enroll in one college ofNotre Dame, ofthe total women, were enrolled in enroll in the College ofEngineering. the upswing in enrollment in the Provost Timothy O'Meara said as opposed to any other, Indicate that college. Dean Michael J. Loux of the Col­College ofEngineering started about "self-selectivity" Is the biggest factor discrimination? The College of Engineering had lege ofArts and Letters said that the ten years ago. in the choice of a college at the Uni­
Notre Dame currently accepts a 998 men, or 25.2 percent ofthe total figures are a puzzle unless you rely versity and it Is the job of Notre prearranged number ofmen and wo­men, enrolled in it. Two hundred on stereotypes which are "clearly in­Even today, Berry continued, Dame to advise students, not coerce men for admittance to each incom­and seven women, or 12.9 percent appropriate." He said that students, there Is a low percentage of women them. He added that the University Ing freshmen class. Admittance is of the total women, were enrolled in male or female, are not discouraged engineers in society. This lack ofwo­leaves open the opportunity for all not dependent upon which college that college. or encouraged to enter a particular men engineers makes It difficult for students to choose the college of the student plans to enroll in. In fact, Five hundred and eighty-two college. He said the percentage of universities across the country to their choice and there are an many students do not make a firm men, or 14.7 percent of the total women enrolled in the College of recruit qualified women professors. "enormous number of factors" that commi~ment to a particular college m~n, were enrolled in the College of Business Administration and the The private sector has made a con­
see COLLEGES, page 5
until the end of their freshman year. Science while 279 women, or 17.4 College of Science is directly scious effort to recruit women en­


The Observer Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 2 


I 
r r 
I 
r 

In Brief 
Student photo 1.0. cards are now availabe for those students who had their I.D. photograph taken on either Enrollment Day (August 24 or 27). The cards may be picked up at the Registrar's Office ( 215 Administration Building), beginning Thursday, Sept. 27, from 8 to ll:30 a.m. and 12:30 to 4:30p.m. Students must return both temporary I.D. cards (the plastic Vali-dine card and the paper tempo­rary card) in order to pick up their new student photo I.D. cards. There will be a $5.00 charge for each lost temporary card. 
The SMC Programming Boardmet last night at Saint Mary's. The main topic of discussion was the United Way Drive, of special interest to Saint Mary's as this year's poster child is the daughter of a Saint Mary's professor. The drive. chaired by Maureen Meagher, begins this Sunday at SMC and each hall and class will sponsor fundraisers, aiming for the goal of $2 per student. Also discussed were Alcohol Awareness Week (Oct. 1-4) and Oktober­fest (Oct. 8-11 ). -The Observer 
Banning sale of beer by the pitcher would Cut down on drinking problems significantly, says research by a Virginia Tech psychology professor. Dr. E. Scott Geller studied drinking pat­terns of over 300 students in three campus-area bars and found stu­dents, on average, drink 35 ounces of beer per person when it's served in a pitcher. They drink an average IS ounces from a bottle and 12 ounces from a glass. A pitcher provides more than most want to drink, Geller told the American Psychological Association, but students figure beer is cheaper by the pitcher and, once it's ordered, feel compelled to compelled to "clean their plates."-The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Polish Ambassador to Japan, who detected to America in 1981 rather than serve in the new military regime, will discuss "Centrally Planned Economies: Myth or Reality" during a talk at Notre Dame today. The lecture by Zdzislaw Rurarz at 4:15 
p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditorium is sponsored by the College of Business Administration and is open to the public. 
Saying he could no longer represent a regime "which denies the fundamental rights ofthe Polish people," Rurarz abandoned a career spanning 25 years of service at the highest levels of Polish govern­ment and society. -The Observer 
A Chllean lunchwillbeservedfrom I1:30a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. The menu includes Chilean Chicken Soup, homemade bread, salad, dessert and a beverage. The cost is $3. All proceeds will benefit a Chilean family. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Father Roland E. Murphy, internationally known Biblical expert, will deliver a lecture entitled "Love Poetry in the Bible" at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium on today at 7:30 
p.m. The lecture is free and open to the public. Father Murphy, the George Washington Ivey Professor ofBiblical Studies at the Divinity School of Duke University, is an expert on the Song of Songs. His lecture will focus on this book as an example of how to read the books of the Old Testament. Murphy has served as editor-in-chief, and as a member of the editorial board, of the Catholic Biblical Quarterly and is a member ofseveral publications' editorial boards. In the fall ofl985 he will come to Notre Dame as the VisitingJohn A. O'Brien, Professor ofTheology.-The Observer 
Crosby, Stills and Nash will be coming to the Notre Dame ACC October 29.. A ticket lottery will be held today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Student Activities Board Office on the 2nd floor ofLaFortune. -The Observer 
A Mass Communication Clubis being formed at Saint Mary's for communication majors and intended majors. An organizational meeting will be held tonight at 7 in room 228 Moreau Hall. All interested Saint Mary's students are invited to attend. Call Ann Murphy at 284-5011 with any questions. -The Observer 

Weather 
Mosdy cloudy and cool today with a 60 percent chance of rain this afternoon. A high of 54 today with a low of36. Tomorrow should see some clearing with a high of 55, but it will continue cool. There is even a chance to see your first Indiana frost of the year tomorrow morning. -AP 





FRIDAY 
HAPPY HOUR 6 -8 

,,,,_,,~, 
~~~-~-~()
0 /'Y-.'\_ /I,­
c ~J c :J<IIti::"\
e 
~"WW~ 

Profs, stop by to chat on your way home and grab a burger! 
* *Come Dance to the Live Sounds of 

Spunk 
10 p.m.-2 a.m. A HOT NEW BAND WITH EXPERIENCE 
2 Forms of~ Required 

The ~Obser:ver-
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the studeniS of the University of Noire Dame and Saini Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by wriling The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Noire Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Assoclated Press. All reproduction righl6 are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Destgn Editor ....................... Lev Chapelsky DestgnAsststant ........................ Paul Bruce Layout Staff...... Mark Weinholl, Caroline Belin Typesetters ....... Calhyann, Jennifer Bigou News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor ............................... Mark Pouer Sports Copy Edt tor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout .............. Byron Stevens Features Copy Editor ....... Marikris Dalum Features Layout ........................ Mary Healy ND Day Edt tor ................... Donna Gavigan SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design ...... Suzanne, Marianne, Marina Photographer ........................ Chris McLean 



When getting ahead turns to treading water 
Brrring!!! 

Seven a.m. At the start ofthe semester, this was desig­nated time to wake up, throw on the swimsuit, and jog to the Rockne for a brisk morning dip. 
But's let's be realistic. It's almost October. Is Suzy Domer really going to get up and swim? 
Hit the snooze button. 
BRRRING!!! 

Eight a.m. Afew weeks ago, the plan was to get up in time for hot breakfast every day. Just the thing to keep the eyes open during that 9 a.m. philosophy class. Who are we kidding? Powdered eggs versus a few more minutes ofsleep? 
Slam that snooze button. 

At precisely 8:33 a.m., the proverbial Suzy Domer 
steps into the shower and in a miracle oftime efficiency 
is able to shower, dress, dry her hair, swallow half a 
Twinkie (she's dieting) and make it to class only four 
minutes late. 
When noon rolls around, the plan to skip lunch and study physics is put aside in favor of a few friends and some hot gossip. (Besides, she only had half a Twinkie for breakfast.) 
After classes, a nap wins out over the 'brar. (Or maybe a nap wins out in the 'brar.) And then, well it's al­most time for dinner... 
The start of a semester, like the beginning of a new year, is a time for resolu­tions. And the end of Sep­tember, like the end (or middle... or beginning...) of January is the time for break­ingthem. 

Few of us escape the temptation to set oh-so-lofty goals when we first enscribe our names on those deceptively clean new notebooks. 
This semester we will make it to all ofour classes, we will exercise regularly, we will eat nutritionally, we will get eight hours ofsleep every night, the Irish will win the national championship... 
And for the first few weeks/days/hours we valiantly try to live up to these standards. We might actually get up early one morning and run or, heaven forbid, read ahead in economics. 
Then one by one, the semester's goals crash down about us. Almost imperceptively, the alarm clock rings a little later (and, some would claim, a little softer) every day. 
And any surviving resolutions are sharply put to rest by that time of truth, the first round oftests. Many ofus are now, or will soon be, drowning under that first gentle downpour of major tests and papers. 
Amy Stephan 

Assistant News Editor 
Inside Thursday 

And assuming we survive the onslaught, we'll spend the rest of the semester treading water, trying to catch up, or at least stay above the surface. 
We half-heartedly reach for the remnants of our weather-beaten goals and chop them down into easy­to-digest pieces. 
We might make it to some of our classes, we might take the stairs occasionally, the Irish might win a foot­ball game ... 
And before too long, even these reduced goals have to be mopped up and trimmed down to size. We, as students, are constantly faced with impossible (or semi-impossible) tasks. And, for the most part, we rashly set out to conquer all our goals, but instead are con­quered by them. 
We could sit back and la­ment our fate as students caught in a no-win situation, or we could, perhaps, try a new approach. 
Although it seems ludi­crous, many of us believe that if we once fail to meet our goals we might as well give them up. "I didn't run yesterday, so why bother today?" Too often, one fail­
ure makes us see ourselves as failures. 
And often we try to do everything, not stepping back to see what is most important and doing that first. Set­ting priorities takes time, something most ofus have in short supply, but those who bother to set them claim it's time well-invested. 
Two embarrassingly basic ideas: set priorities and learn to take small failures in stride. Yet if all of us fol· lowed these guidelines, there would be a lot less caf­feine consumed on campus. 
So Suzy Domer floats in a current of misplaced goals, and we hear her murmur as she drifts along: "I will set priorities, I will live with failures..." 
Hang in there, Suzy. It's only September. 

Due to a reporting error, Father Richard McBrien's title was incorrectly stated in an article on Henry Hyde on Tuesday. Father McBrien is chairman of the theology department. 


The Observer Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 3 

China and Britain promise freedom to 1997 Hong Kong 
Associated Press 
PEKING · China and Britain ini· tlaled a pact yesterday for post­colonial Hong Kong in the year 1997, promising people the right to strike, speak freely, pray and govern themselves in a capitalistic society · but enshrining Peking's ultimate au· thority. 
The agreement, revealed after two years of secret negotiations, specifies that the prosperous free port ruled by Britain for 143 years will become a special administrative 
Navy Nursing 
2 careers in 1! 
FIRST-You're a Navy Nurse You work in a Professional environment and have the opportun1ty tor ad­vanced train1ng. You are also 1n an immediate supervisory posit1on. SECOND-You are a Navy ott1cer. This includes travel and adventure. Your salary and benefits are comparable to civilian nurs1ng. REQUIREMENTS-BSN degree, or a three-year diploma with one year re­lated expenence. 
SEND RESUME TO: 
Navy Medical Programs Room643 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis. IN 46204 
OR CALL KATHY SCANLON TOLL FREE: 1-800-382-9782 
Navy Representative on campus Oct. 10 and 11 at the Placement Office 

region of Communist China when the British lease expires july 1, 1997. 
In precise detail, the document guarantees almost every right that Hong Kong residents now enjoy, and promises that those liberties "will remain unchanged for 50 years" after the handover date. 
The crown colony had anxiously awaited the details of the pact and first reactions to the accord there were warm. Hong Kong, with its 5.5 million people, 98 percent of them Chinese, has been the most populous and economically success­ful remnant of the once mighty British empire. 
The draft agreement was released in Hong Kong nine hours after it was Initialed in Peking by British Ambas­sador Sir Richards Evans and Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Zhou Nan, the chief negotiators, in a cere­mony seen live on television in Hong Kong. 
The colony ranks third among world financial centers, behind New York and London. The United States 
President Ronald Reagan addresses the annual Houtvan, IMF secretary; Noboru Takeshita, chair­
is Hong Kong's biggest market. Two­
meeting ofthe IMF and the World Bank Tuesday in man oftbe meeting; Timothy Tbabane, secretary of 
way trade is more than $8 billion a 
Washington. Seated from laeft to right are: jacques the World Bank; and A. W. ClauseiJ, World Bank
year, nearly twice the volume ofU.S. 
de Larosiere, IMF managing director; Leo Van president.
trade with China. 



Hey Mate! 
JDbe~-needsyou.The news department Is accepting applications for 

Lets talk about the summer 


of '85. 
If ypu or:e thinking that for ahead, we ml!ly hove,o job for you. 
W. R. Groce & Co. is looking for outstanding undergraduates to 1oin us in a summer intern program between · 1unior and senior years. 
We ore looking for especially talented: 
ACCOUNTING AND ENGINEERING MAJORS 
Students with outstanding academic records and with a demonstrated interest in outside activities ... Men and women with a genuine interest in business and with that special mix of imagination, ability and foresight necessary for success ... Individuals of inordinate curiosity, and the willingness to learn in on unstructured environment. 
In a recent summer, one of our recruits spent her two months in financial analysis. One come to New York for a special pro1ect 1n our Corporate Finance Department and another spent the 
summer with one of our Chemical Divisions as q Process Engineer. 
As your placement officer will tell you, our global interests in chemicals, natural resources and consumer products offer a rare diversity of opportunity. 
We will be on your campus soon. If this ideo challenges you-and you enjoy a challenge-take some time now to outline your qualifications in a thoughtful letter to: 
Manager of College Relations 
W. R. Groce & Co. Groce Plaza 1114 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10036 
One step ahead of a changing world 



GRACE
chemicals • n®ral resources • consumer products 
(Ill t.•qUCII or)0011Uillly Vlllployer 
Senate approves legislation concerning health warnings 
WASHINGTON · The Senate today approved legislation replacing the general health warning on ciga­rette packages with four alternating warnings about the specific dangers associated with smoking. 
The legislation, approved on a voice vote, now goes to the House, where supporters predicted speedy approval. 
Under the amendment, a section of the bill listing the surgeon gen· eral's findings about smoking was removed from the legislation al· though it will appear in a report ac­companying the bill. 
Sen. Wendell H. Ford, D-Ky., has said that was done because of con· cerns that putting the findings in the actual bill would give them the force of statutory language and, possibly, raise product liability problems. 
The surgeon general's findings state, in part, that "cigarette smoking is the largest preventable cause ofill­ness and premature death in the United States, and is associated with the unnecessary deaths of over 300,000 Americans annually." 
The four new warnings would state, following "Surgeon General's Warning", that: 
·"Smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema and may complicate pregnancy." 
·"Quitting smoking now greatly reduces serious risks to your health." 
-"Smoking by pregnent women may result in fetal injury, premature birth and low birth weight." 
·"Cigarette smoke contains car­bon monoxide." 


t·····¥············'
~ STUDENT L01TERY FOR -tr 
! Crosby, Stills & Nash ~ 
£ Coming Monday, October 29 ~ -tr to Notre Dame ACC -iC 
-iC -iC -iC -iC ~ Lottery is this Thursday, Sept 27 at the Student Activities -iC -iC Bldg. /Student Govt. offices on 2nd Floor Lafortune ~ ~ 9:00a.m. -4:00p.m. -fC ~ Winners Announced Friday Tickets sold on Saturday il -iC 4 tickets can be purchased per winning entry!! ~ -iC -iC 
~ GOODSEATSIFLOORABOX $13"each -iC 
-iC -iC 


EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY l HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo
~UUUI


,.__ tJfr'
Ill , .IUIUIIIIHII 
10844 McKmley Hwy Osceola ,,1 ~·~ IIIIIJIIIIIUIII 674-6993 II' ~~~·' t IIIIH HJIJJI
255"3068 1 · e '• ' , 1111111111111111 
or call your Travel Agent 111111111 IWIIIIIIIIIIillllntt I ~ lunnlltlllllllr.l 




The Observer Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 4 



t-• .-:w,J • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •: 

~ ~ir 'Richard's m ~ 
• Hairstyling for MEN and WOMEN 
• 
: ._Walk-ins welcome ~O.If-, : 
• For appointment call277-0734 • e I -:-·..-.\",~'-,,--u e 
South Bend, IN 46637 ULU U : • Across from Wendy's • 
:.....~·······················' ·····i:Enriii£ji.~i·cj\iUE····l
i 
Notre Dame Student Cake Service :
i +
can now be found at "Irish Gardens" : Flower Shop in Lafortune 
i 
Order a cake today & we'll • deliver it tomorrow : 

• 
Muriel Magenta, president of the National Wo­artist-in-residence at Saint Mary's from Oct. 8-17. men's Caucus for Art, the largest women's art or­Her 12-foot sculpture above is titled "In Defense of ganization in the country, will be serving as a Hairdo." Story is below. 
M-F 12:30-5:30 
j 


SMC artist-in-residence announced 
•

Spedal to cbc Obscrftr Magenta and the group of students tsdale. Her film "Bride" is in the Na­Muriel Magenta, artist and profes· who collaborate throughout her tional Film Collection of the Library FOllYOUil sor of art at Arizona State University residency at the college will execute ofCongress and w:as exhibited at the 
PLANTNEEDS~'

will serve as artist-in-residence at their performance piece. World Conference of Women in Saint Mary's October 8-17. She will Magenta exhibits widely on a na· Copenhagen in 1980. give two public presentations tionallevel and is recognized for her during her visit. large walk-in art environments, Magenta is equally known for her 
She will present the lecture "In films, video art and photo-process work in feminist art organizations. Defense of a Hairdo: Art Issues of wall pieces. Her exhibitions include She is currently serving as 1982·84 


~~~~tl-ls 

Muriel Magenta" at 7:30 p.m., Tues­solo and group shows at A.I.R. president of the National Women's day, October 9, in Carroll Hall.ofthe Gallery, New York; The Los Angeles Caucus for Art, the largest women's 
,.ttO

Madeleva Classroom Building. Institute of Contemporary Art; Uni· art organization in the nation. She During the lecture, she will relate versity of Southern California, Los was also the founder of Woman 
G Mon -Sat 12:30 -5:3 

her work to world developments in Angeles; Marian Locks Gallery, Image Now, Arizona State Univer­the 1970s and 80s and look ahead to Philadelphia; Rutgers University, sity's student organization support· 
DIAL 283·4242

the art of the 90s. Slides, films and New Brunswick, New Jersey; ing women in the visual arts. Woman video art will be screened. At 7:30 Phoenix Art Museum; Tucson Art Image Now is the largest campus or­p.m., Monday, October 15, in the Museum; The Scottsdale Center for ganization of its type in the United parlor of Haggar College Center, the Arts; and the Yares Gallery, Scot· States, with 3 75 active members. 
Any Big Burger*, large order 

--------------~-------·------------.,

of fries, and a large soft drink for I




lti ,.,. 
ONLY$1.89 I 
*Your choice of Big Deluxe r: Mushroom 'N' SwissT: or Bacon Cheeseburger. I 
Good only at Hardee's® Restaurants of South Bend I

Food for Tbougbt 
Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer per visit. Customer must pay any sales tax due. Coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Cash value 1/100th of one cent. Offer good only after regular breakfast menu hours. No substitutions. 
I 
This coupon good now through October 7, 1984. ~ 

----.t\ardmJ:•lliiiil"iiiiiii·1 
"c. 

Any Big Burger*, large order of fries, and a large soft drink for I ONLY$1.89 I 
*Your choice of Big Deluxe r: Mushroom 'N' Swissr: I or Bacon Cheeseburger. 
Good only at Hardee's® Restaurants of South Bend I 
Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer per visit. Customer must pay any sales tax due. Coupon not good In combination with any other offers. Cash value 
I 
1/100th of one cent. Offer good only after regular breakfast menu hours. No substitutions. 
IL This coupon good October 8 through October 14, 1984. .
r---•llibrdm•lli"iiiii"iiiiSystOms. -1 
I 
Any Big Burger*, large order I of fries, and a large soft drink for I I ONLY $1.89 I *Your choice of Big Deluxe r; Mushroom 'N' Swissr; 1 or Bacon Cheeseburger. I Good only at Hardee's® Restaurants of South Bend I 
I 
Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer per visit. Customer 
iI 
must pay any sales tax due. Coupon not good in combination with any other offers. Cash value 
1/100th of one cent. Offer good only after regular breakfast menu hours. No substitutions. 

If you can't think about your studies, think about this: Hardee's has 
This coupon good October 15 through October 21, 1984. a delicious meal deal for $1.89 (plus tax). Bring one of these coupons in to any 
-----"ardmJ:• 
lli9841iieeiiisfS'em•.lnc

participating Hardee's restaurant and get a Big Burger*, large order of fries and a large soft drink for only $1.89 (plus tax). So drop your Any Big Burger*, large order book, grab two bucks and come get some food for thought at Hardee's. I of fries, and a large soft drink for I 
I ONLY $1.89 I

It I *Your choice of Big Deluxe r: Mushroom 'N' Swissr,M I 
or Bacon Cheeseburger. I Good only at Hardee's® Restaurants of South Bend I




ltJAll 
Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon per customer per visit. Customer 

,_
•Big Deluxe~ must pay any sales tax due. Coupon not good In combination with any other offers. Cash value 
Mushnoom 'N' Swiss~ ® 1/100th of one cent. Offer good only after regular breakfast menu hours. No substitutions. Bacon Cheeseburger 
This coupon good October 22 through October 28, 1984. 

______...IIIII----~rdiZilJ:• llieiiii"iiisiil''illl 
~ eR:s:"' I • I 


•' .•. -.. .. >_..,~:i~. If .. •••·• ••-...................,...·.·--·---.. ·~1>..~~··"·~···~~~···"~---~ ,..1·.·-·.·.·.·.'·'4. 

The Observer 
MACINTOSH USERS!! 

AT THE Center for Social Concerns 
Thursday, September 27 11:30-1:30 Cost: $3°0 
The menu Includes: Chilean Chicken Soup, Homemade Bread, Salad, Deaert and Beverage 
All PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHILEAN FAMIL V 
QUEEN's CASTLE 
THE ROYAL IRONZE SUNTANNING CENTER Students receive one free trial with the purchase of a session! See a TAN in minutes not hours! Or refresh your tan!! 
Only minutes from campus! 

54553 TERRACE LN., S.R. 23 lACROSS FROM MAATIN"Si 
HOURS: THURS · 8·30·8:30 TUES. WED. SAT FRI.· 8.30·8c30 8 30·5 30 CLOSED MONDAY 

INTRODUCTORY PRICES: 
5 SESSIONS ••••• 525 8 SESSIONS ••••. 535 REFRESH YOUR 
$7 
TAN IN MINUTES •••••• 
GOOD THROUGH AUGUST 31, 11114 
$1.00 
Off 
DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GETTING FOR YOUR MONEY ON A SUN BED? 
OUR BED OFFERS: 

1
. FACIAL TANNER 

2. 
NO COLORING CREAMS NEEDED TO OBTAIN ATAN 

3. 
NO BURNING, PEELING OR DRYING 

4. 
SAFE WITH OVA BULBS IF THESE FACTORS ARE 


PRESENT, YOU HAVE CHOSEN THE PROPER SUN TAN BED. 
ALL LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WELCOME PRIVATE ROOMS 
$1.00 off any pizza. One coupon per pizza. 
Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 


Meeting 
continuedfrom page 1 
to sign up U'l Sibs upon entering the residence halls, a tentative schedule of events and a list of volunteers already signed up to work on the weekend. 
But some coucil members still wanted to show it to all of the rec­tors first. "As I remember, the hall rectors had this dumped on them last time," said Tyson. "'Ibe office of Student Affairs ordered them to comply. I just want to go on the record right now by saying this vice president is not going to do that. I will have to be convinced that not just Chuck Lennon and the Alumni Board approve of this event." 

Colleges 
continuedfrom page 1 
effect the decision ofa student to en­
roll in a particular college, among 
them academic background and pa­
rental pressure. 
Dean Emil T. Hofman ofthe Fresh­man Year ofStudies said, "We (at the Freshman Year ofStudies) do not act as the agent for any major or any col­lege." He added the Freshman Year office tries to give the freshmen as much information as they want or need. 
"The principles (of counselling) are the same, whether for men or for women. There is no sex bias at all in the Freshmen Year of Studies," he said. 
Hofman added that there is a myth that men and women have different levels of academic performance at Notre Dame. He said, "The average GPA of r,;otre Dame women has an insignificant difference to the average GPA of Notre Dame men." 
Assistant Arts and Letters Dean Robert Waddick said, "Although it 
D~~l!Mry's 
BACK! 
Beginning Monday in The Observer 
Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 5 
"I will not be put in a position where I'll be forcing hall staff to do something, because it won't work," he added. 
Rozum also held back on'support­ing the weekend. He said that, accor­ding to the new alcohol directives, the rector has to approve the admis­sion ofguests under the age of 18 to the residence hall. "I don't think they're going to let them in," he said. "Are you going to force them to go to these events?" he asked Madden and Taeyaerts. "If you don't force them, then you're going to see as much drinking as you did before." 
Rozum also had problems with Madden's claim that the hall ledgers would keep an adequate tab on where all the weekend guests were. "I've heard that song before," he said. 
may sound archaic, engineering is a relatively new field for women in our society." He said he saw the nu­merical difference of women in the respective colleges as not static and that since women have been ad­mitted to the University, the percentage of arts and letter women to total women has been dropping while the percentage ofengineering women has been rising. In 1974, Ill women graduated from Notre Dame. There were 64 arts and iet­ters graduates and only 2 engineer­ing graduates. He said it is a slow process, but it is moving toward equilibrium. 
Waddick recalled that a "woman's job" used to be in the fields of nur­sing or teaching. Now, he says, the path is opened to them in a wide va­riety offields. He said that more and more women are opting for graduate school, law school or medi­cal school. He expressed his hope that the narrowing of the gap be­tween men and women is a societal trend and is not limited to an aca­demic setting. 
Kitty Arnold, director of career 
But Father Steven Gibson, rector ofCarroll Hall, disagreed. "I feel kind ofalone here, but I really don't share those opinions," he said. "I think one ofthe classiest things that happens at Notre Dame is the Junior Parents' Weekend. I hope U'l Sibs could be as classy an affair as that." 
Student Body President Rob Ber­tino motioned to table the issue un­til Madden and Taeyaerts could make their presentation to all of the hall rectors. The council unani­mously approved. 
In other council business, Pat Browne, student senator for district 2, offered his proposal to limit the amount of money students had to pay for books. After council discus­sion, the issue was put aside for fur­ther examination. 
and placement services, said she agrees that progress for women is not limited to academia. At entry level positions within corporations, she said, there is "straight-forward hiring" with no discrimination in­volved. She said the job market is promising for both women and men. The major discrimination seems to be in the area of advancement. "There are still certain industries that women have trouble advancing in," she said. 
Arnold added that her personal theory as to why there are fewer wo­men who choose engineering at Notre Dame is because there is a "comfort level factor" in any human enterprise. This factor is simply an indication of whether an individual fits into his or her environment with a degree of comfort. Any minority must overcome this "comfort level factor" if they are to overcome greater obstacles as they strive towards their goals, she said. 
She added that she believes it re­quires an extraordinarily talented and motivated individual to overcome these obstacles. 
reap," explained Wills.



Wills 
Student.~ who have been taught by 
continuedfrom page 1 
Lerner and now by Wills also see the read more carefully. "One of my two teaching approaches differ­aims in my class, no matter what sub­ently. "Max' class wa..~ more ject, is to make people take their humanistic and more reflective," own words seriously," Wills stated. said Scott Ebersol, a senior in Ameri­
"After all, we go through life using can studies. "Lerner wanted us to words all day long, well or ill, and personally reflect on issues in our the sooner you learn the proper use, life, wherea..~ Wills want.~ us to exam­the better the benefits you will ine an institution." 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
,

, 
1 
•"g'Qowerrg fprr aQQ occagiong'' 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354' 
***************** 
iE iE 
iE M /AM I JE\A/B.RY -tE 
: 1906Miaml3.. : 
: TOPPRICE : 
: RINGS*DIAMONDS iE : GOLD*SILVER : 

iE WATCHES iE iE • -tE Buy -Sell -Exchange :SPECIAL iE OPEN MONDAY-SATURDAY 9 · 6 iE : 289-6440 : $1 OFF Any Meal With This Ad ***************** 
i6$/iaci 
********** 
Specializing In: 
Smoked Fried Deliciously Thick 
Need funds for your club

* HICKORY RIBS *CHICKEN *PIZZA 
or activity? Raise $100 or ********** $10,000 with NESTLE FUND RAISING. South Bend 
BEER 9nd WINE 
area man ager will help Phone Ahead-Complete Carryout you with your fund raising 
TWO LOCATIONS: 
from start to finish. Call 
291-3720 NOW for your

1835 Lincolnway East South Bend-Open 1days-288-8240 
free samples!

St. Rd. 23 &Bittersweet, Granger Closed Monday Only 277-3143 

View~_o_i_n__t________Th_u_rs-da-y,s_.ep....te-mb-er_2.._7,_19-84--pa...ge-6 
Decio Hall: More than brick and mortar 
On September 14th and 15th, the Decio Faculty Hall Dedication Ceremonies were held. Consisting of a liberal arts symposium, a dedication mass, a black-tie dinner, and an academic convocation, the two day affair was a momentous occasion. 
At first glance, one might think that all these events were held simply to envelop in cere­mony the grand opening ofjust another build­ing. However, upon closer inspection, one realizes the misconception in this oversimpli-
Ken Cerabona 
guest column 
,... fication. After attending these ceremonies, I soon realized that this building symbolizes 
r' 
,... much more than its simple brick and mortar ,... walls suggest. 
I"" 
This thought first occurred to me as I sat in 
r 
the back of a crowded Sacred Heart Church 
r 
on that Friday afternoon of the building'sr dedication. During the homily of this Dedica­
r 
tion Mass, the Associate Provost Father Ed­
~ 
ward Malloy said something that made me 
r 
think of Decio Hall in a new way. In essence, he said that the cross ofJesus Christ was not just an object; rather, it served as a symbol of something more. 
Concerning Decio Hall, I thought that it also stood as a symbol ofsomething more, just as the cross does, but in a dift'erent area -that is, the area ofacademia. In this area, Decio Hall takes a three-fold role. 
First, it indeed serves as a symbol of some­thing more. Decio Hall stands tall as a visible monument to Notre Dame's commitment to a liberal education. Located near O'Shaugnessy Hall and the Snite Museum ofArt, Decio's im­posing three-winged design is highly visible to anyone visiting other university landmarks, such as the Memorial Library and the football stadium. 
Second, Decio Hall serves as a working in­strument that provides a better understanding of the liberal arts to all who enter its doors. Housing the fuculty of the College ofArts and Letters in larger less crowded offices, Decio Hall tilcilitates greater opportunities for stu­dent tilculty interaction. 
Third, by no longer relegating the tilculty to the dark confines of the library basement, Decio Hall will boost tilculty dignity, morale, and efficiency. 
So thanks to the philanthropists Arthur and Patricia Decio, not to mention the visiting scholars who expounded their views on the values of a liberal education during the Dedication Ceremonies, Decio Faculty Hall is on its way to becoming a building composed of more than brick and mortar. It will become a building teeming with new life and new ideas. 
And as long as we students, regardless of our majors, journey through these halls for the purpose of broadening our intellectual horizons, Decio Faculty Hall will soon be known as a great success at the University of Notre Dame. 
P.O.BoxQ 
The Decio Foundation is a shaky base 
Dear Editor: 
After reading of the dedication day pomp and ceremony for the new "Decio Faculty Hall" building, I feel it is my duty to offer a peek behind the scene, the tilcade, and relate my first-hand experience with the Decio people. 
Besides my constant studies, I am a writer who contacted the Decio Foundation this year for help with a contractual obligation with one of my books. However, after reading in the Observer that it was stated "This is a world, and that (Decio) is a building, and we are creatures put together by words, words, words," I think it's time everyone knows where they stand when they try to communi­cate or get any assistance from the Decio Foundation. 
I presented the Decio Foundation with a professional proposal for assistance and the worst happened: not only did a large amount oftime go by with no response, but my second letter went totally unanswered even though I enclosed a self-addressed stamped envelope. Delays are deadly in the publishing world. When the stated purpose of the Decio Foup­dation is "literary assistance" and the attitude shown writers is pompous and negligent, such an attitude is evidence of something bogus with the foundation and the honcho at the top who is responsible for his "empire." 
Naming a building after some questionable guy just because the bottom line of his life is big bucks is obscene. So what if he donated the mega bucks to build the hall? Why couldn't the building be named Damian Hall after the priest who was at Notre Dame several decades ago and is now being consid­ered for sainthood -or Paradis Hall after Mot­her Marie Leonie Paradis who was Beatified by Pope John Paul the same week as the Hall's dedication ceremony; or better yet "John Paul Hall" (it rhymes) knocking off two dedica­tions at once: Pope John Paul II and the Beatles! But Noooooo! The hall is not dedi­cated to greatness, or to an individual who in­spires others with their unique pain ofhuman experience, nor is the building dedicated to an expounder of inspiring philosophy on the human condition. The hall has to end up being dedicated to the immortalization ofa person's ego just because he donated money. 
I defy anyone reading this letter to attempt to get any response or assistance out of the Decio Foundation though your project may be of great importance to our nation or the enlightning of mankind. After thoroughlly ex­periencing the Decio Foundation, I feel the foundation is bogus (tax haven), I feel the dude himself is bogus and naming the hall after daddy big bucks is bogus. 
So when it comes to the tilcade of flashy banquets with world reknown university presidents and making sure the building's name is a testimony to immortalize and ag­grandize one's ego. It's thumbs up, full speed ahead! But when it comes to reality, the bot­tom line: one of us, one of the people plying the trade of arts and letters "words, words, words," and requesting a small pittance of contractual assistance for which the Decio Foundation supposedly exists, the answer to me and anyone reading this diatribe will be an invariable "Nyet." 
james lee 

Abandoning ulterior motives in dialogue 
"Dialogue" is one of those slippery words. Especially in an election year when it seems that everyone is eager to "engage in dialogue," "campaign on the issues" and foster "meaningful communication." 
The trouble is that it never seems to hap­pen. For instance, National Public Radio carried a report onMorning Edition last week 
Chris Robinson 
a larger view 

in which Walter Mondale was portrayed as in­creasingly pointed (some say desperate) in his attacks against Ronald Reagan. He has recently brought forth specific proposals for reducing the federal defecit. He has publicly wrestled with issues of nuclear disarmament, environmental pollution, the relationship be­tween religion and politics and the role of foreign trade as it impacts United States labor. 
Ronald Reagan, on the other hand, is be­coming more general in his remarks, more aloof and distant from the everyday, rough and tumble world ofpolitics. He is not retreat· ing, but acting from a position of strength as he maintains and, in some areas, increases his lead over Mondale in public opinion polls. NPR pointed out that Reagan isn't even bot­hering to bring up specific fssues as much as he used to, preferring instead to make ex­tremely brief speeches about "the springtime of America's greatness," patriotism and pride in the accomplishments of the last four years. The president clearly is campaigning on his past performance, whereas Mondale is run­ning on future promises, the traditional con­
frontation  between  incumbent  and  
challenger.  
The  problem  is  that  there  isn't  much  

dialogue going on. Especially during this in­tense period when U.S. citizens are making the crucial choice of a leader for the next four years. 
Politics, especially on the national level, is often centered around form instead of con­tent. Substantive presentation and discussion of issues takes a back seat to technological concerns such as camera angle, timing and style. (Not that these aren't important: Mondale's dull, haggard appearance does not play well opposite the confident, beaming Reagan bravado. 
I was sitting in a political science class taught by Dr. Fred Dallmayr the other day. A point made in his lecture reminded me of the Aristotelian concept of dialogue which might prove helpful here. As originally advanced, "dialogue" meant the process in which two or more people engaged with the express pur­pose of not only exchanging information but to become changed as a result ofthe conversa­tion. In this framework, one didn't desire dialogue in order to convert, coerce, berate, propagandize, or chastise. A person, mindful of his need to change (for whatever reason), sought dialogue to understand the other per­son's point of view as well as to modify his own. So that, together, a new relationship might be developed and progress in human endeavor might be made. 
Some attempts at this kind of communica­tion are occurring. Mario Cuomo's speech on campus two weeks ago was an excellent ex­ample of someone who has the courage to thoughtfully examine various aspects of a complex issue with a spectrum of socio­political, historic, rational and emotional dynamics. By so doing, Gov. Cuomo moved from the realm of being politician to that of a statesman, in the best tradition of whlt this country has applauded. 
Father Hesburgh has demonstrated his abil­ity to engage in what he calls "an endless con­versation." Students and faculty alike are encouraged to speak their minds, explore new alternatives and forge new _realities within the context ofinstitutional life. 
We need to abandon the habit ofdialoguing with alterior motives. We need to stop defin­ing other people in our own terms, for our own purposes, to suit our needs or to fit our conception of the world. 
Let's encourage dialogue in the highest and best sense ofthe word. Not only in politics but in other areas of our lives. 
Chris Robinson is a communication consul­tant who is a doctoral sociology student at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 


=·~~The Obsenrer-__ . Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Editor-1n·Ch1ef. . Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager . . . Dave Taiclet Manaqinq Ed1tor . Mark Wnr<;r;heh Controller. . Maripat Horne The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Edilor ............ Sarah Hamilton Advertismg Manager . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . ... Dan Mt:Cull0ugh CirculatiOn Manager . Jeff O'Neill reflect the pol1c1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Samt Mary's Ed1tor . . Anne M'Jnastyrski Systems Manager .... Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Ed1tor. M1chaeiSullivan 
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor . . ..... Dave Grote present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966

community. and the free expression of varying opin1ons on campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor. Pete Laches IS encouraged. 


Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 7 

Movies 
A movie trapped in its own darkness 
by Scott Ebersol 
features staffwriter 
n the 30 years since Malcolm·
ILowry wrote "Under the Vol· 
cano," screenwriters and directors 
alike have attempted to bring this 
stirring and psychological novel to 
the screen. John Huston, director of 
such films as "Night of the Iguana" 
and "A Man Who Would be King," 
finally undertook the project. 
The most fascinating aspect of Huston's film resides in the charac· ter of the Consul. The entire film takes place on one Mexican day ·· Nov. 2, 1938, the "Day of the Dead." The Consul, Geoffrey Firmin (played by Albert Finney), Is slowly 
drinking himself to death while he broods over the affair between his ex-wife Yvonne (Jacquallne Bisset) and his half brother (Anthony Andrews). At the same time he is worrying over the lmmlnensc ofanother world war. 
The film offers a strong central theme which Is revealed through the Consul. Through this character, the dramatic issues ofpersonal betrayal and the tragedy of the times arc visualized. Finney gave a powerful performance worthy of another Academy nomination. Hutson, being intrigued with doomed heroes In previous films, portrays the Consul as a tragic hero. Due to Finney's performance, the Consul becomes a standard "HuL~on" hero, oneaccepts one who accepts fate as he realizes he 
cannot change its circumstances. 
The Consul's reaction to the 
turmoil around him is to get drunk. 
He is seen shaking on the screen ·· 
drunk In a heroic way. When he is 
supposed to be drunk, he is. Not a 
comic drunk or an exaggerated one~ 
for realistically, Finney offers the 
audience an intelligent man ·· a man 
smothered in passions and Ian· 
guage. 
To present the novel on film, screenwriter Guy Gallo chips at its complex literary style, moving to the heart ofthe plot, and filling what remains with Finney's perfor· mance. 
Unlike the book, in which a nar· rator supplies the background and insight through one long flashback, Gallo and Huston have eliminated the narrator in hope ofproviding a linear profile surrounding the three major characters. However, by removing the narrator's internal viewpoint, the film becomes a flat vision. 
Mexico provides a powerful backdrop: the encompassing macabre ofskulls, skeletons and demons on the Day ofthe Dead (when spirits come back). The plot itself, however, is sporadic and sequential. Finney's performance can only partially connect the story, supplying an image oflonely self· pity and mockery. 
The conclusion of"Under the Volcano" is clearly tragic in order 
to typify the Consul's crumbling 
life. Dying, the Consul utters the 
final words: "Christ, what a dingy 
way to die." Through the power 
and realism ofhis performance, 
Finney reveals a remarkable man ·· 
he elevates a simple death while 
Huston evokes enormous power 
and sympathy. 
However, while Finney's perfor· mance and Huston's cinematic skills provide the heart ofthe film, the supporting roles remain far removed. The characters ofthe Consul's ex-wife and halfbrother·· essential to understanding Firmin's tragedy ·· are flat and undeveloped. The three-fold relationship Huston and Gallo hoped to portray fails. Finney's role and performance simply overpower the rest ·· only the landscape remains intact. 
Lowry described his novel as a political warning, a "cryptogram," a story ofa tragic world. Huston's adaptation, although courageous and engulfing, simply relies on the Consul to grandize the world. While the Consul stands isolated against the jungled backdrop, "Under the Volcano" moves deeper into its own darkness, only to get trapped with no place to go. 
It must be kept in mind, however, that a film and a novel can never be compared on the same level. Hus· ton's rendition, in this light, offers an artistic attempt to move inside the Consul's drunken mind, offering the audience the story ofa man tragically destroyed by his own distorted imagination. 
Movies The Karate Kid: 
enjoyable but unbelievable 

by Paul Cimino 
features staff writer 
I 
walked into the theater with the intention ofseeing 
a movie and noticed that I had a choice between 
"lbe Karate Kid" and "Bolero." Bo Derek would 
definitely have entertained me; however, a little voice 
In my head told me that I should see "The Karate Kid." 
As usual, the voice wasn't wrong. 
"lbe Karate Kid" is the story of Daniel Laruso (played by Ralph Macchio), an Italian kid from Newark, New jersey. As the movie begins, he and his mother move west to California because she was promised a job with an up-and-coming computer company. Daniel immediately makes a new friend and is invited to a beach party. At the party he meets a girl named Alli (pronounced "alley") (played by Elizabeth Shuc ), and they become good friends right away. Alii's ex-boyfriend shows up, however, with his motorcycle· riding gang ofkarate friends. Being the new kid on the block, Daniel defends Alii and gets beaten up. Needless to say, the gang refuses to leave him alone, and he 
Father Gerald J. Merkel 
continually returns home with new bruises on his face. 
Meanwhile, Daniel has used his spare time to 
become good friends with Mr. Miyagi (Noriyuki 'Pat' 
Morita), the fix-it man at his apartment complex. After 
Miyagi saves Daniel from the gang, he agrees to 
accompany the boy to the local karate house and talk 
with the gang's karate teacher to see if a truce can be 
arranged. Following a strange bit ofdialogue, Miyagi 
and Daniel get their truce; however, Daniel must 
participate in the region's karate tournament in a 
month 3nd a half. The story continues in a "Rocky" 
type fashion and builds in intensity and feeling to a 
fantastic climax as Daniel finally faces Alii's ex· 
boyfriend on even terms. 

As for the actors, Ralph Macchio is terrific as Daniel. 
He plays the part as if he really is a misplaced New 
jersey boy who was trying desperately to fit in. Ifhe 
looks a little familiar, you may remember he got his 
break playing in "One Day At a Time." The biggest 
problem one notices with a venture onto the big 
screen is that he looks too young to fit in with the rest 
of the actors. This fact is especially evident when both 
he and Alii are pictured in the same shot. In any event, 
he is still able to portray Daniel effectively. 
Pat Morita is excellent as Mr. Miyagi. His character must teach Daniel that karate must not be used for revenge but instead, to avoid fights. He at the same time teaches Daniel about life, and is instrumental in his growth. On the lighter side, it's great to see Morita back. His part ofArnold on "Happy Days" was always funny, and while he does not play a comic part in this film, it is good to see he has not yet retired. 
Unfortunately, the rest of the movie goes predominantly downhill. While the acting is not the worst I have ever seen, it is, at any rate, mediocre. The script, however, was a bigger disappointment. Many of the crucial scenes seem unbelievable and corny lines abound. Had the time been taken to dream up a truly believable script with truly believable characters, this movie would have been more than just "Good." To further attest to the rushed feeling and obvious low budget associated with this film, there was actually one scene in which the viewer sees a boom microphone enter the frame for a short period of time. 
But don't let these things stop you from going to see this movie. All things considered, "The Karate Kid" is an extremely enjoyable movie and well worth the price ofadmission. It is currently playing at the Forum Cinema and tickets are available at the S.U. Record store for a very affordable 52.50. At that price, you will definitely have a worthwhile time. 
The story of a drunk driver 

AssociatedPress 
LOSAngeles .. One month before Gary Christopher was to join the ranks ofprofessional bowlers, a punch press crushed three fingers on his bowling hand so badly they had to be amputated. 
The day the doctor gave him that news 19 years ago, Christopher went out and got drunk. And he kept on drinking, eventually running up a total of 27 drunken-driving convictions. 
Christopher, 38, is now in jail, where he has been on seven other occasions. 
Unless the state Court ofAppeals reduces a term ordered Sept. 10, he will serve a prison sentence ofnearly 10 years, one of the stiffest ever delivered in a drunken-driving case where nobody was injured. 
"These were all victimless misdemeanors," said his attorney, Leonard Chaitin, who called the sentence "outrageous" and is appealing it as excessive. 
In an interview last week, Chaitin said Christopher makes a "good salary," is a "capable worker" and works hard writing up bids for a solar construction firm. 
"I myself think the guy's not really a criminal. He's a very gentle person," he said. 
But City Attorney Ira Reiner said Christopher got what he deserves .. "the largest sentence imposed anywhere for drunk driving, as far as we know." 
The seven previous jail sentences ranged from a "five-day slap on the wrist" to one year, he said. 
"Nothing works," Reiner said. "The only thing you can do now is worry more about the public and warehouse him.... It's clear he has driven thousands oftimes under the influence ofalcohol to have been caught and convicted on 27 separate occasions. It's astonishing he hasn't killed someone, but he's just a homicide waiting to happen." 
But Chaitin said Christopher is a man devastated, a sad story, a problem in need ofa solution. "He was a pro bowler, and his whole life went out the window," said his wife, Brenda. 
Apre-sentencing court psychiatric report said Christopher had bowled "in the high 200s in high school with an occasional perfect game" and had qualified to join the pro tour in September or October 1965. The accident occurred that August. 
"Within 24 hours oflearning ofthe amputation, the patient went with a friend and drank quite heavily," the report said."...Mr. Christopher has never accepted the loss of the fingers on his right hand. He is reluctant to discuss it." Chaitin said his client has refused all news interviews. 
"Everybody has a story," said Reiner, "and how much there is to that .. who knows?'Secondly, we're talking 20 years later. Lots of people have industrial accidents where they lose a finger or two. That does not excuse a lifetime ofendangering other people's lives." 
Reiner consolidated four drunken driving arrests over eight months into one case, which also included four counts ofdriving with a restricted or revoked license. 
Still pending is a july 27 drunken-driving offense that Chattin said occurred while Christopher was free on bail ·· one reason Reiner opposed bail reduction from $500,000 pending appeal in the case. 
The son ofa career soldier, Christopher "describes his parents as strict but not cruel disciplinarians," the psychiatric report said. Christopher drinks, it said, to cover up intense feelings about his injury that well up during times ofstress. 
The highest blood-alcohol concentrations Christopher showed in any ofhis cases were 0.30 and 0.28 percent, Chaitin said. California's tough 1981 drunken-driving law makes it a crime to drive with 0.10 blood-alcohol and Increases sentences according to the number ofprior convictions. 
A 0.30 was the highest official blood-alcohol reading that could be remembered by Clay Hall, chiefofprogram development for the federal Office ofAlcohol Countermeasures at the Department of Transportation In Washington, though he's heard unofficial reports ofhigher levels. 
A 0. 50 reading is generally considered the threshhold where coma or death may occur. 
"We estimate that at least 50 percent ofall highway fatalities are the result ofdrinking and driving," National Safety Council spokesman Dick Tippie said in Chicago. Last year, there were 44,600 highway fatalities nationwide. 
What can be done about chronic cases like Christopher, Reiner was asked. 
"Not a thing," he said. "When someone is such a recidivist as this person is, only he can deal with that. Obviously such a person as this has to go to AA (Alcoholics Anonymous)." 
Hall, commenting on the general problem but not Christopher's case specifically, said, "I think AA is very good, but for a person to go to AA he must want to go to AA." 
Abby Baker, Los Angeles assistant director of Mothers Against Drunk Drivers, called Christopher "a timebomb waiting to explode." 
Ms. Baker, who like many MADD members was the victim ofa drunken driver, suffered broken bones, internal injuries and "couldn't walk for about six months" after a drunken driver struck the disabled car in which she was sitting 11 years ago. 
"The drunk driver saw the hazard lights and crashed right into it. He didn't go to jail," she said. "It's MADD's general position (to impose) punishment first, rehabilitation second." 
Sports Briefs 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Monday through Friday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -Tbe Observer 
The St. Mary's Tennis Teamoutclassed a build­
ing Valparaiso squad last night, 9-0. The Belles, 4-1, now prepare for their own invitational, this Saturday and Sunday. There will be details ofthe match in tomorrow's paper.-Tbe Observer 
Notre Dame/South Carolina football tickets 
willgoonsaletodayatgate IOoftheACC. The tickets are 516each.­
Tbe Observer 
Notre Dame/Missourifootball tickets are available on a first-come, first-served basis, continuing today at the Student Activities Board record store. -Tbe Observer 
The ND women's cross-country team will compete at home this weekend, as the Irish play host for the National Catholic Invitational tomorrow. The race will start at 3 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. -Tbe Observer 
The off-campus hockeyteamwill be meeting 
from 12 p.m. to I p.m. tomorrow at the ACC. Team members should bring their skates. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Skateboard Club will be meeting 
tonight in the LaFortune Little Theatre at 8 p.m. to discuss plans for ramp construction, a concession stand, and other activities. New members are welcome. -Tbe Observer 
I

Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 8 
Abadmintontournamentis being held by NVA. Singles and doubles entries for the double-elimination tournament will be accepted at the NVA office until Wednesday, October 3. -Tbe Observer 
Afreshman swimming meetfor men and wo­men will be held Wednesday, October 10, at 7 p.m. Hall reps must turn in a list of entries to Coach Stark the day before the meet at the Rockne Building. Divers must submit a list of dives to Stark before the meet. For more information, call239-7042. -The Observer 
A beginners archery clinic will be sponsored 
by NVAon October 8, 9 and II from 4: IS p.m. to 5:30p.m. each day. Deadline to register in person at the NVA office is October 5. -The Observer 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables at Edwardsburg, Mich. will be sponsored by NVA on Sunday, October 7. Rides will be at I p.m., 2:30p.m., 4 p.m. and 5:30p.m. The charge for transportation and 50-to 60-rninute rides is $5. Times must be reserved in person at the NVA office by October 3. -The Observer 
Entries for the Domer Six-and three-mile runs 
on Saturday, September 29 arestill being accepted at the NVA office. For more information, call 239-6I00. -Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. -The Observer 
SMC 
continuedfrompage 12 

president), and Mellin (treasurer). 
Right now most ofthe funding for the soccer club comes from the members, who pay their own dues, and contributions from the Athletic Department and Student Activities. Uniforms, league registration, referees, traveling expenses, practice and game balls are among the many expenses of the soccer club. 
On Friday, the players are going to 
present a proposal to Dr. Jack Dug­
gan, the president of Saint Mary's, 
and the officers of the college, and 
will soon know their chances of be~ 
coming a varsity sport at St. Mary's. 
The players hope to gain entrance 
into the NAJA, and to be able to com­
pete in the National Championships. 
The team's next home game is Sat­
urday October 6, at 9:30a.m. against 
Purdue. 
Jackson 
continued from page 12 

Jackson would rather talk about the team's goals than his own. 
"I'm a team player so team goals come first," Jackson said. "I want us to get to a major bowl, but my short range goal is the Missouri game." 
Jackson's personal goals are in keeping with his character, men­tioning academics before football. 
"Academically, I want to get above a 3.5 grade point average and make the dean's list," the Irish flanker said. "Athletically, as long as I do my part to help the team go to a 
major bowl,  that  is  my  ultimate  
goal."  
Jackson  definitely  has  a  bright  

future ahead in both athletics and academics. He is not sure whether he will play professional football or pursue a career in accounting. No matter what he decides, he undoub­tably will be successful at it. 
The Ohsen•er Notre Dame office. locatnl on the thtrd floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts dassitkd advertising from I) a.m. until -1 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts dassifkds from 12:50 p.m. until 5 p.m...\1on­day though Friday Deadline for next-day cla~sifieds i~ -~ p.m. All classifit·d, must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five: charaL·­
Classifieds 
ters erda·. 

NOTICES 
················································ Are you In need o1 FINANCIAL AID? L~hip Training! Challenge! Ad· ventuntl SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skin-or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (23&-6264) 
TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
-Need T -shirts, Sweats. Jerseys, etc??? call All SPORTS for the best buy!!! (312) 
281-6886 
BOOKS BOUGHT, SOLD,AND TRADE!! PrM«~t this ad and receive an extra 10/ OFF store bool<a. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 
THE NEW YORK TIMES! It's not too late to IIUbecribe to theN-York Times. Fac­ulty, undergraduates, graduate students, law students, and staff pe<sonnel can have the Times delivered anywhere on campus(Dorm room, office, carrel, mall­box, depertment office,ect.,) for only 35 cents on -daya, $2.50 on Sundays. Contact George Devenny at 145 Stanford-283-2094. 
TYPING 
Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: KEVS, Coat of Arms key rin;; Room 259; Mark x1154 
FOUND: Tortoise shell glaases in pink Pearle Vision Center cue. Found at Madeleva shuttle stop, Sept. 20. Call284­5136. 
LOST: Wooden cane near the handi­capped pwkin; spece in front ol the Lew School. If found pleese call John Mauelat 288-8057 or bring it to the Lew School. 
ATTENTION $5,000 REWARD FOR LOST WATCH AND IM JUST A STU­DENT. WHOEVER FOUND MY GOLD TIMEX WATCH--I WOULD APPRECI­ATE ITS RETURN.! HAVE NO MONEY... HOWEVER, YOU WIU GAIN TOTAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON YOUR DEATHBEO.PLEASEPLEASEPLEASE THANKS KIM 4114 
REWARD: LOST CANON SURE SHOT CAMERA IN THE STADIUM ON SAT. AROUND SEC. 28. IF FOUND PLEASE CAU 284-4389. 
LOST:1 PAIR PENNY LOAFERS­REWARD-KEVIN 3828 
LOST: REDDISH BROWN WALLET lost on 9/21 at Angela or between NO & SMC. If you find it, save a life(mine). I'm getting sharp hunger pains. PLEASE Call Dave at283-1475 
LOST: 5 KEYS ON A SIMPLE RING. 2 HAVE 284 STAMPED ON THEM. $$REWARD IF RETURNED! PLEASE CAU283-1476 THANKS! 
LOST:SHARP GHETTO BLASTER AT BIG BROS. CONCESSION STAND SAT. ROOMIE WIU KILL ME. GREAT REWARD OFFERRED!!! CALl JOHN 1773. 
LOST Wallet during the Holy Cross SYR at the Americana Hotel fri. night. There was no money, only pictures and IDa. 4124 REWARD!!!! 
LOST • STUDENT FOOTBAU TICKET (SECTION 30). CALL TOM 232-oo48. 
LOST· N.Y. DRIVER'S UCENSE. CALL TOM 232-0348. 
WANTED 

,-~;;;;d·;;;;,·i~·E;;;;i·t:;;~~-;;gF;;;.~:·s~i-. 
28 as ear1y as possible. Returning Sur~­day Sept. 30 whenever. Call me at 283­1810. PLEASE'. 
Niieii'4't:iiA'i.1·,·(3~-wiU:.;;'A'Y'$4ii·~~j; 
x3639 or 1-264-2894 TRACY 
Nii.eii"'Fiiii.eR5...-To...i.1.i.O:i:.ii···u·.~-ciNci 
AREA WEEKEND OF 9/28-9/30 CAU 284-4416 
································································ 
FOR SALE 
Commodore-64, 1541 disk drive and software.Still under warranty. Asking $500.00 for whole system. Negotiable. Rob 232-0697. 
TICKETS 
Needed: 2 So. Carolina GAs; Marl<x1154 
I NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. CALL DAVE D. AT 1801. 
Need Miami tickets. Will trade South Carolina. Call John at the cave, 3467. 
NEED 2 OR 4 MIAMI GA'S, PLEASE CALL TIMOAT287-8264 
FACT: The Air Force game is coming up 
soon. 
FACT: Two people I know are coming up 
soon. 
FACT: They don't have ticl<ets, but want to see the game. FACT: I need two ticl<ets. FACT:MynameisMATT.Icarryabadge. CONCLUSION: If you don't call 2577 soon and sell me two GA's to the Air Force game, I'm going to do something terrible to your dog. 
MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED 2 Miami GA's needed. eau Mike at 1740. 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S CALL PETER -4606 
Need 2 G.A. tlx for S.C. game Call Paul 2835 
HELP AN NO STUDENT GET A JOel MY FUTURE 8088(7) NEEDS 4 GA MtAIII TIX. MONEY IS NO OBJECT! CALL LARRY (283-2015) 
SOUTH CAROLINA tickets needed. 3 GAs together. Call Todd x1688 
NEEDED: 4 SC GA's and 4 STUD tix. Call 1250 
1 MIAMI STUD TICKET NEEDED -call Katie in morning 1514 
NEED MIAMI GA'S $$$$RALPH 1486 
$$$$ 
NEED THREE AIR FORCE GA'S RALPH 1486 
IHAVEMtAMISTUD. TlX-WIU TRADE FOR PENN. STATE G.A. TlX CAll277· 7570 
WANTED:2 MIAMI TICKETS---MONEY IS NOT THE QUESTION---KEVIN 3828 
I NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET-Student or GA-willing to pay BUCKS $$$$. Call Frank at 2043. 
Need 2 stud tix for Miami game Call John 2835 
NEED 3 Air Force Tix for WEAL THY Alum! St. or GA, call Kevin AT 3024 
Help! We need MIAMI tix. Call Rob 1784 Kathy4071 
Yo, I need a whole bunch of Air Force tick­ets. I'm talking large quantities. Vast amounts. Lots and lots of ·em. Can we talk? Call the Alien at2S:: · 
SOUTH CAROLINA TICKETS I need some, that's all. Call the Alien at 
253<. 
Need 1 stud. tcl<t. to Air Force. Alan at 3128. 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN & MY DAD ARE BOTH FROM NJ AND NEITHER HAVE MIAMI TIX. IF YOU HAVE 2 GA'S CAU GREG-3578 
······································· 
WE NEED MIAMI TIX CALL WOZZ3224 OR1812 
You have Miami GA ticl<ets at a reasonable price,l WANT THEM Paul 2318 
I Need 6 G.A.'s for Miami! Please call Leah at 3782. 
I NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL BRIAN 3677. 
NEED MIAMI GA'S. CAU KATHY AT 
2906. 
NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL JOHN AT 2246 OR 1296. 
Need Miami Tix! Will pay big bucks! Call 234-5545. endad 
HELP, DESPERATELY NEED TWO MIAMI GA'S. CALL JOE AT 1143. 
NEED 1 PENN STATE GA, CALL STEVE 277-5031 
Help!!! I need 2 South Carolina GA's for my parents. If you can help me, call Scott at 3241 or 3242. 
BIG BUCKS DESPERATE! NEED UP TO 6 MIAMI TICKETS G.A.'S OR STU­DENTSCALLJERRY AT 1735 
Need 1 Miami GA. Call Janet at 284-4340. 
Need 5-6 GA's for the Oct 13th Air Force Game. Will Pay in cash. Call Anne 5253 (SMC) 
PERSONALS 
I would not be convicted By a jury ofmy peers. SVIIcrazy Afterall these years. 
-PeuiSimon 
Marc Ramirez -Madder Than Mad In '84 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
yySOPHOMORESyy Make your contribution to the Class of '87!! Submit a design idea for the official clasS t-shirt to Chris Britt, rm. 161 Dillon. The design should be in one color and include a back and front 
AP Ia a dirty word. 
GREG, AMY still wants to try. She still thinks she can make you change. Give 
her a chance. Go ahead, make her day! 
GoCamp!BeatLSATs! 
LSATs ... DEAD! 
LET'S GO CRAZY O.nce Saturday, Sept. 29 9:00 p.m.-2:00a.m. SMC Haggar Center $1.00 admission Sponsored by the 
Social Alterna~ve Club 

Ride needed to near Harrisburg. PA. over Oct. break. Usual$$. Alan at 3128. 
Paul John-Happy Birthday! Now drop and give me 21. You heard me, DROP! 
SENIORS! Want to go to New Orleans on the senior trip? Take over my $100 deposit for $50. Call Kala at 3717. 
OBSERVE RITES! 

Pllln to lltlend our flret recreetioflltl ectlvlty ol the yeer ...aoltblllf, munchiN end more. Thla Friday at 4 p.m. Y'•lf come up to the office lor more -lla. 
BUSTERBUCKWHEAT-I LCNe You! AMF 
..................................................... 

JOHN-HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MY FA­VORITE GUY! I LOVE YOU' AMF 
Chhhyyyyaaaammmmplons !!! 

FOOD LOVERS ... A family from CHILE offers you LUNCH ON THURSDAY chicl<en soup, homemade bread, salad. dessert and beverage from 11:30-1:30, Sept. 27 at the CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. Cost $3.00 
WANT A CHANCE TO WORK ABROAD? COME TO THE AIESEC MEETING THURSDAY 7:00 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM-2ND FL 
HEYUSTENI Three researchers from the planet Vlimfskik are coming to earth to study the social activities and recreation patterns of human beings. They absolutely must see a Notre O.me football game! However, their spaceship will only be here on No­vember 17, the day of the PENN STATE game. They need three G.A.s. Please call Mary (their human contact) at 1333 if you want to funher the cause of science and inter-species understanding. Vlimfskik thanks you. 
I'd like to tur\her the cause of science and inter-species understanding. 
STUDENT LOTTERY for CROSBY STILLS and NASH is this THURSDAY,SEPT.27TH IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD OFFICES on 2nd floor of LaFORTUNE from 9a.m.-4p.m. TICKETS ARE 13.50 EACH and 4 can be bought per winning CROSBY STILLS/NASH at the MONDAY,OCTOBER 29TH. 
The Observer Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 9 
Royals maintain lead as Twins fall; Angels gain ground 
Associated Press White Sox downed the Minesota fifth inning, when the Phillies scored Twins 9-3 last night. their only run. The steal gave him a Astros 3, Dodgers 1 Notional League KANSAS CITY, Mo. Brian Rlchard Dotson, 14-15, pitched an major league rookie record, surpass­Downing and Doug Decinces each eight-hitter against the Twins. ing the 71 steals by Montreal's Tim LOS ANGELES -Mike Richardt ,.,._
w L Gil

knocked in a run last night to lead The Twins took a 2-0 lead in the Raines in 1981. lashed a two-run pinch-double with x-Chicago -· 9. ~ 
.~9~ New York 89 70 .~60

the California Angels to a 2-0 victory first inning as Randy Bush doubled Sid Fernandez, 6-6, pitched the two out in the ninth inning last night '-~ 
St. Louis 83 .525 II 

over the Kansas City Royals. to drive in Mickey Hatcher and Kent first five innings and ex-Met Jerry to send the Houston Astros to a 3-1 Philadelphia 81 " 78 .509 13.5 Ron Romanick, 12-12, gave up Hrbek. Koosman, 14-15, took the loss. victory over the Los Angeles Montreal 75 82 .•78 18.5 
Piltsbu'llh 72 87 .•53 22.5

seven hits, walked one and struck The White Sox scored five runs in Dodgers. Wnt out two. the third off Ken Schrom, 5-10. Bill Dawley, 10-4, who relieved x-San Diego 90 69 .566 
Atlanta 79 79 .500 10.5

Bud Black, 17-12, pitching on just Marc Hill doubled, and Scott Padres 4, Giants 0 starter Mike Scott in the seventh in­
Houston 79 80 .•97 IIthree days rest, surrendered just Fletcher singled, with Hill stopping ning, earned the victory. Loo Ant~clco 76 83 .•78 
andnnatJ 67 91 .•2. 2H

four hits, but the Angels bunched at third. Hill was out at the plate on a Fernando Valenzuela, 12-17, took 
.•.,
San Francl.sco 66 93 H

three of them in the sixth. After Gary fielder's choice grounder by Julio SAN FRANCISCO -Eric Show, the loss despite striking out 12. clinched d&vialon llllc
X· 

Pettis grounded out leading off, Dick Cruz. Rudy Law and Harold Baines whose next start for San Diego will Schofield singled and Fred Lynn followed with RBI singles before be in the National League Champi­
Blue Jays 8, RedSox 4
walked. Downing followed with a Walker's 24th homer, a blast into the onship Series opener, tuned up yes­single off the glove of third baseman upper right-field stands. terday by pitching three-hit ball BOSTON -Bernie Whitt capped a George Brett, scoring Schofield and over seven innings as the Padres American League 
four-run third inning with a two-run sending Lynn to third. Decines' beat the San Francisco Giants 4-0. homer and George Bell homered in -· single brought Lynn home with the Mets 7, Phi/lies 1 Rlch Gossage and Andy Hawkins w L ,.,._ Gil
the seventh as the Toronto Blue Jays 
x·Oetroh 102 56 .M6

second run. completed the shutout by working defeated the Boston Red Sox 8-4 last 
Toronto 88 71 1•., night. New York 85 73 .538 17
The Royals threatened in the NEW YORK-Home runs by Rafael the final two innings, combining for .553 
.,.

seventh, loading the bases with two Santana and Mookie Wilson led the four strikeouts. Boelon 7. .532 18
Doyle Alexander, 17-5, gave up 
Baltimore 83 .525 19

out. But Romanick got out of the in­New York Mets to a 7-1 National Show, 15-9, got his first victory four runs on four hits, including acvcland 71 87" .••9 31 ning by retiring Willie Wilson on a League baseball victory over the since August 26 as the Western Divi­MUwaukee 65 93 .•II 37
Mike Easler's two-run homer in the 
wac

fly ball. Philadelphia Phlllies yesterday. 
sion champions won their 90th second inning. Alexander struck out Kmauaty 83 76 .522Santana, Wilson and rookie left game of the season. He struck out seven and walked one. Boston MJnncaota 81 77 .513 1., fielder John Christensen, with a cautomla 79 79 .500 3.5
five and walked just one. starter Dennis Boyd, 12-11, took the .,.
Qaldand .•72 8

White Sox 9, Twins 3 double and a single in his first major­Show also drove in two runs off loss. Chlcaso 73" 85 .-«;2 9.5 ~ league start, drove in two runs loser Bill Laskey, 9-14, with a double Scatllc 71 87 .H9 11.5
The Red Sox took a 4-1 lead in the Tcxu 
67 90 .•27 15

-•
•

CHICAGO Greg Walker hit a apiece. in the seventh inning. The Padres 
second, but the Blue Jays scored three-run homer to cap a five-run Philadelphia's Juan Samuel stole had only three hits and one run off four times in the third, includingthird-inning rally as the Chicago his 72nd base of the season in the Laskey before the seventh. 
Whitt's 15th homer. 
IDbt l(niglyts oftltt <t!astlr 
I ..c\ . 
Men's Hair Styling at Its finest minutes from campus 

• -~ s 00 
272-0312 2n-1691 
HAIRCUTS 
'i·l'i.~.~ l"t"rra~:c: Lane: 
(!'II Kd. 2.~) 
:\no~~ from Marlin's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 
Foreign StudyPrograms 
PRESENTS 



Lecture Series on China  
September 27  Pirate Treasure in Peking  
Dian Murray, Dept. of History  
October 16  Private Enterprise in China Today  
Joseph Scott, Dept. of Sociology  
NovemberS  Contemporary Chinese Culture  
'  Peter Moody, Dept. of Government  
November28  Tianjin Program Overview  
6:30p.m.  

SateUite, Room 242, O'Shaaghn•••v Hall Eueryone Welcomel 
We're looking for Wharton accounting majors 
x· cUncl>cd division llllc 
~ 

ALLIED SHIPPING 
Air& UPS 
219-277-7616 
We pack and Ship 
HOURS: 1 -7 Mon -Fri 10 a.m. -4 Sat 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS SR23 

with the 
We need outstanding individuals to go to work in our corporate headquarters in New York. We prefer majors in accounting, but will consider other majors with a minimum of three accounting courses. These positions are in the Financial Planning and Analysis Division of 
W. R. Grace & Co. 
The Division's job is to assist the Chief Executive Officer and corporate manageme11i in analyzing the strategic and operating issues facing Grace's businesses. It evaluates the five-year business plans and the performance of all our operating divisions in chemicals, natural resources and consumer products. 
As a member of this division. you will review all major capital investment proposals. and under­take special projects initiated by corporate management, by the operating divisions or by the department itself. 
If you're successful, you will spend several years in the Financial Planning and Analysis Division. after which relocation outside of New York City is likely. 
Promotion and increased responsibilities will be principally financiaL opening up possible moves into positions throughout our international operations. 
W. R. Grace is an unusual company, a $6.1 billion multinational with balanced business interests in chemicals. natural resources and consumer products. In 1983, Grace earned $159 million in these businesses. Growth like this relies upon people with an unusual mix of professional abilities and individual characteristics. If you like assuming responsibility, and can prove it to us; if you are an effective communicator, and can prove it to us. then you may have the Grace Dimension. 
If you have that dimension, the chances are you know it, and we would like you to tell us about it. or show us. 
Send your resume and we will arrange to visit with you on campus. Send it to Joseph Fitzgerald. Manager. College Recruitment. W. R. Grace & Co. lll4 Avenue of the Americas. New York. N.Y. 10036. 

One step ahead of a changing world. 
GRACE
chemtCOis • natural resources • consumer products 
on equol oppor hJiltly employer 

Holmes to fight Smith, snubs Gerrie Coetzee 
The Observer Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 10 
Ferguson injured 
Buffalo QB situation up in air 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Unbeaten Larry Holmes, casting aside Gerrie Coet­zee, will fight james "Bonecrusher" Smith for the International Boxing Federation heavyweight title Nov. 9 when he continues his quest to 
catch the ghost ofRocky Marciano. 
"I'm going to let that fight die," Holmes said at a news conference yesterday, referring to his proposed bout against Coetzee, the World Boxing Association champion. 
Holmes had hoped to make his first fight this year for promoter Don King against the WBA titleholder from South Africa. But that fight was blocked, at least temporarily, when Holmes lost a lawsuit filed by Vir­ginia attorney Richard Hirschfeld. 
Hirschfeld contended he had a contract with Holmes that gave him first refusal on a Holmes-Coetzee fight. 
A Holmes-Coetzee fight is the most eagerly awaited bout in the scrambled heavyweight division that has three champions -Holmes, Coetzee and World Boxing Council titleholder Pinklon Thomas. 
"I think Coetzee will lose the title, he's not that good a fighter," added Holmes, who will take a 45-0 record with 32 knockouts into the ring at the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas, Nev., against the little-known, lightly re­garded Smith, 14-1 with 12 knock­outs. 
The timetable for Holmes, who will be 35 on Nov. 3, calls for him to fight five more times. If he wins all five, he would be 50-0 -and surpass the late Marciano's unblemished record of49-0. 
"That's a goal," Holmes said. "You have to have goals ifyou're going to stay in the game. My goal is to· pass Rocky Marciano's record. There is nothing else to fight for. 
"I want to go down in immor­tality. I want people to remember me." 
Smith is ranked only 11th in the heavyweight division by the IBF, ninth by the WBA and 15th by the WBC. That's why when the fight was announced, it quickly came under much criticism as a mismatch. 
Holmes said that unifying the divi­sion also was one ofhis objectives. 
"I don't want any more initial (i.e., IBF, WBA, WBC) champions," he said. "I want one champion.' 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS -There was an air of mystery as the Indianapolis Colts and Buffalo Bills prepared for their Sunday Na:tional Football League date in 1the Hoosier Dome. 
The Colts, still seeking their first league victory in their new home, didn't know if the Bills would have veteran Joe Ferguson at quarter­back. 
Ferguson suffered a severely sprained ankle in the closing minutes of last Sunday's 28-26 loss to the New York jets and was listed as "doubtful" on the Bills' injury report for the game. 
Buffalo Coach Kay Stephenson an­nounced yesterday that joe Dufek would start at quarterback in In­dianapolis ifFerguson wasn't able to play. 
Dufek, who helped Yale win an Ivy League title as a senior, has never taken a snap in a regular season NFL game. Dufek, signed by the Bills as a free agent in july 1983, threw 50 passes and completed 26 for 293 yards and one touchdown in three preseason games this year. He was intercepted twice. 
The other Bills' backup quarter­back, Matt Kofler, went into the jets game after Ferguson was hurt. He threw five passes with a completion and was intercepted once. 
Buffalo is winless after four out­ings, but the Colts can't be over­confident after being humiliated 44-7 by the Miami Dolphins last 
week. The Bills lost to Miami by only 
fou: poin~ earlier this month. 
The Colts, 1-3, expect Buffalo to test their pass defense no matter who is at quarterback. Coach Frank Kush began the season concerned with his defensive backfield, and those concerns have grown as injur­ies depleted an already weak sec­ondary. 
Unable to make a deal, Kush is forced to go with a secondary that has yielded touchdown passes of47, 56 and 80 yards in the past two games. For the season, the Colts · have allowed an average of 255.3 yards passing, placing them 25th among the league's 28 teams. 
~­


f 
I 
r 
I t 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~...IIIHIIIHI...IIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII.........IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIH, 
Technical SalesI at Texas Instruments Semiconductor Groap 
We sell technical products to technical people. Therefore, we must speak their language. The reasons engineers go into technical sales are because they like the big picture, they like I convincing and persuading people, they like the freedom and mobility, they like the idea of being rewarded in proportion to their efforts, and they like the exposure to all levels of management. 
We will be interviewing on campus October 10 and 11 for engineers (EE, ME, CHEME) to sell microprocessors, custom circuits and MOS. 
IJean Murtagh, Class of 83 will be at the Alumni room ofthe Morris Inn from 7-9p.m. Thursday, ! September 27 to talk about semiconductor sales I and opportunities with Texas Instruments. L....-..­
.........HIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIHIItiiiiHIHIIIItNHIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIItNIIIIJ 
PROFESSIONAL 
BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training prpgrams offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to immediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 
* 
Systems inventory management 

* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management 


Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance­
ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age limit 29. Call Navy Toll Free 
1·800-382-9782 
Navy representative on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement Office 

.• ~....;...t 
J. ROGEl
j}J( .. __,......-· 
CHAMPAGNE 
750Ml.
~ 
lss 

BAILEY'S IRISH CREAM BUDWEISER KING'S CELLAR 


750ML. 
~ BARREL VODKAoa 
KEG 
Gs'"ss 
32'' 
1.7Sl. 
• • In my opinion, we have the FINEST LIQUOR STORES in townl" 
BUDWEISER QT 
CASE 
BUDWEISER 1lz BARREL OLD MILWAUKEE 11z BARREL MICHELOB LT 1/J BARREL 
Prices Good Thru 9-29-84 
' 



Today____________________
Th_u_r_sd_a_y_,_se_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_2_7_,_1_9_8_4__p_a_g_e_l_l 

Bloom County 

Berke Breathed Campus 
•9 
a.m. -4 p.m. -Lottery, Crosby, Stills & Nash Lottery, Student Govt. Offices, 2nd Floor LaFortune, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•12 
p.m. · Lecture, "The Law: Professional Sports, Academics, Labor Relations, and Drugs," Alan Page, Former All-American of Notre Dame and NFL Star, Room 10 1 of the Law School, Sponsored by Black American Law Students of ND & Sports and Enter­tainment Law Program & Alumni Assoc. 

•3:30 
·4:30p.m. -Computer Minicourse, JCL, First Session, CCMB, Available to Public, Free. 

•4 
p.m. -Radiadon Laboratory Seminar, 






45 Soil deposit 50 Br. gun 
46 Antaractic sea 51 Dispatched 47 Nautical term 52 Spreads hay to dry ACROSS 37 Desk item 62 Camping gear 23 Maiden name 48 Weather abbr. 55 Eggs 1 Bravery 38 Buddhist word 49 Again 56 Mimic 6 "To err is mountain 24 Expression of human" poet DOWN great 
10 Pale-red 39 Paris magazine 1 Expansive confidence 14 Stage whisper 40 Topgallant and 2 Court great 25 Fry Wednesday's Solution 15 Elysium spar 3 Celebrity 26 Thick blood 16 Inspiration 41 Honey and 4 Word with job 27 Adjust 
Sweetie or lot 28 Heavy 17 Poorjob 43 Frauds hammers 19 -vital 44 Pleased 29 Danceln 
The Daily Crossword 
5 Legal snarl 
20 Decimal base 45 Mineral deposit 6 Small bird France 21 Row 30 Does a
7 Reputation 22 Absorb newsroom job 
46 Wickerwork 8 -diem 
24 Nucha material 9 Arouse 31 Opponents of 25 Snick and-49 Tops Dems. 32 Cockeyed
50 Concorde 33 Propelled a raft 
26 Search blindly 53 Margarine 10 Snap28 Redid 54 Made just so 11 Out of action 32 Sharp ridge 57 Trucker's rig 12 -tide 36 Sentback 
33 Anka of music 58 Holiday times 13 Philosopher 40 Pretended 34 Weaken 59 Turn over Immanuel 42 Menu words 35 Full of juice 60 Family branch 18 Expression of 43 Church 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 36 Course 81 Grackles fright receptacle 
All Rights Reserved 9/27/84 
1>ANGlNL~ .••

DIRTY HARRY WEEK CONTINUES : 
THURSDAY 
at the Engineering Aud e K/
$1°0 IMPORT NIGHT Nachos Subs 
Magnum Force •• Pizza Dogs ~~~ 
Popcorn Pretzels lt,_. ltr., 'a,.~
FRIDAY 
()'tl.~ 

7:00, 9:15, 11:30 : 
Happy Hour 6 -8 LIVE BAND 

$1.00 • £)f.m]ll~ 
SPVNK

• • ior 
Come dance to the Rock Sounds 

§ffi~
This Weekend: SUDDEN IMPACT • from 10-27:00,9:15,11:30 •
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ' 

Tank McNamara Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 


Psycho Chicken Octavia The Far Side Gary Larson 

0 
0 
"'It's OK! It's OK! The tunnel was closing in on me ltoere lor a while, but I'm all right now." 


"Recent Advances in the Photophysics of Or­thometallated Complexes," Prof. Richard Watts, Dept. of Chemistry , University of California, Santa Barbara, Conference Theatre, Radiation Labora· tory. 
•4: 
1 5 p.m. . Lecture, "Centrally Planned Economies: Myth or Reality," Ambassador Zdzis­law Rurarz, Former Ambassador of Poland, Hayes­Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Business Administration, Open to the Public. 

•6 
p.m. -Mac Club Meedng, Macintosh Users Group, LaFortune little Theatre. 

•7 
p.m.-Club Meedng, American Lebanese Club, ISO Lounge, Basement of Lafortune, Sponsored by American Lebanese Club. 

•7 
p.m. · Meedng, AIESEC, LaFortune Ballroom, 2nd Floor, Sponsored by AIESEC. 

•7 
p.m. · Thursday Night Film Series, "The Southerner," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m. · SAD Film, "Magnum Force," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Religious Studies Propm Lecture, "Love Poetry in the Bible," Rev. Roland Murphy, Old Testament Scholar, Divinity School, Duke University, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Program of Uberal Studies Reading, "The Song ofCrazy Horse" and other 5<:­lectlons from His Writings, Reading by Rev. David Garrick, ND, Ubrary Lounge. 

•8:
15 p.m. -Music Dept. Concert, New Music Consort · Program of 20th Century American Music, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Dept. of Music. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon & Simon  
28  Glitter  
34  All Creatures Great & Small  
8:30p.m.  16  Night court  
9:00p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
28  20/20  
34  Sneak Previews  




·---~~-------­
Thursday, September 27, 1984-page 12

S~orts 
SMC soccer club aims for varsity status in '85 
By MARY O'CONNOR Now the club cosists of what Akers Sports Writer calls "a very commited group of players." 
The Saint Mary's soccer club is The team practices every day, and only 2-4 this season, but the Belles' starts off each morning by running at record is no indication of what they 7:00a.m. The players can't go out on can, and will, accomplish this year, weekends because they have games according to coachJohn Akers. the next day. 
Akers sees the '84 season as a Leading this group of dedicated transition year for Saint Mary's, as girls is Akers, a volunteer who the team is hoping to gain NAIA var­coaches for a number of reasons. He sity status for next season. In an at­sees a need for the club at Saint tempt to improve their chances, the Mary's because of the interest the Belles are playing a tough schedule, players have in soccer. He loves the 
featuring teams in the Intercol­game and plays in a men's soccer legiate League as well as the Mic­league. He also enjoys the students hiana Soccer League. who participate in the club, and 
Strong opponents on the St. would like to see soccer become a Mary's schedule include Notre varsity sport at Saint Mary's. Because Dame (whom they have played he is also a teacher at Saint Mary's he twice this year), Marquette, could not continue as head coach Wheaton, Indiana, Purdue, Loyola, but would like to be involved as Northwestern, and Michigan State, much as possible. who recently defeated St. Mary's, 3-Leading the team are seniors Katie 

Notre Dame flanker Milt jackson bas bad to ans]oeHoward andAlvin Mtller. Mark Pankowski 0. Despite the loss to the Spartans, Boldt, Kathleen Burger, Ellen Byrne, 
! ~ 
Maureen Murphy,a junior on the Mary Carol Daly, Alma Fallon, Mic­

carry a big burden for the Irish this season, as injur­gives a profile ofjackson in bts story below. 
squad, believes that things are finally helle McNeill, and Uz Robison. As

ies have decreased the playing time offellow veter-
beginning to come together for the juniors, Murphy, Sue Schier!, and team. Murphy anticipates a strong Mary Beth Proost add their experi­finish which will give the team ence to the squad. Due to foreignHoward, Miller injured momemtum heading into the up­studies programs, Gloria Eleuteri is coming indoor season. the only sophomore on the team. The 1985 indoor soccer tourna­Akers calls freshmen Landry Cle­
ment begins in the second semester. ment, K.C. Chandler, Michelle This marks the second year that the Gund, Ann Marie McGraw, Marie By MARKS. PANKOWSKI ability to read different coverages "This year Milt has been the guiding 
Jackson leads Irish receiving corps 
Belles have competed in the indoor Mellin, Deniece Ruart, Christine Sports Writer and defenses. factor to the younger guys." tournament. Schmych, and Diane Shroeder "the "Once you've identified a Although one might think that 
The St, Mary's team consists of strongest freshman group so far." Injuries to several key performers coverage, you've got to be able to football would be the most impor­
nineteen players with a smaller, The officers of the club are Byrne 

have hurt the Notre Dame receiving react in three seconds or the quar­tant thing in the star flanker's life, select group that comprises the (president), McNeill,( vice-corps as a whole, but they have not terback will be sacked. Milt can do such is not the case. travelling squad. Last year, the kept Irish flanker Milt jackson from that," said Stock. "Football is fourth on my list of Belles' soccer program consisted of see SMC, page 8 
picking up where he left off last The Irish flanker is also known for priorities," Jackson said. "First is my 
two squads, but the school con­season. his skill at getting open against a religion, then my family, then solidated to one team in order to With fellow wideouts Alvin Miller tough secondary. academics." field the best squad possible. (torn knee ligaments) and Joe "He can accelerate well which is When speaking of future goals, Because the commitment to the 
Irish lose 

Howard (sore hamstring) hampered important against man coverage," soccer club was more than some thus far,Jackson has had a lot ofpres­Stock said. "Unless you can ac­players anticipated, the less dedi­sure on him. But he has responded celerate, you can't get open." see JACKSON, page 8 cated athletes were weeded out. 
to Central 

with statistics that could make '84 Jackson is modest about his abili­his best year ever. ties as a football player, preferring to In 1983, Milt Jackson had 23 give most ofthe credit to Stock. 
Michigan

receptions for 438 yards ( 17 of "I haven't done it all myself," said those receptions came in the final 4 Jackson. "I have worked hard, but By CHUCK EHRMAN games). In just three games this coach Stock has made me the Sports Writer season, the 6-foot, 181-pound junior receiver that I am. Coach Stock has from Fairfield, Iowa has made six helped me tremendously." The Notre Dame volleyball team catches for 75 yards and two touch­Regardless of who is responsible, travelled to the Dan Rose Arena on downs. With statistics like these, it is both Stock and Jackson agree that Tuesday night and was frustrated by clear that the absence of Miler and the veteran flanker has improved Central Michigan. Only able to win Howard has not affected Jackson's over last season. As he did last year, one game, the Irish saw their season play. Jackson still makes the circus-like record slip to 4-6. 
"They (Miller and Howard) are a catches, but now he concentrates "It was a close match," coach Art vital part of the team and we all miss more and also makes the more Lambert said. "But I was disap­them," Jackson said, "but you can't routine receptions. pointed that we didn't play better. dwell on them. We've just got to "One thing that Milt showed that We didn't do very well. It was an­keep playing." was different from last year is that he other match that we should have 
And keep playing, he does. Mike is more consistent," said Stock. "This won, but should-have-woos are Stock, the Irish receivers coach, has year he's been a key guy, a better much different than wins." nothing but praise for jackson. blocker, and more effective in all The Irish lost in four games, 15­
"We feel he's one of the best categories," 13, 13-15, 15-13, 15-9. Central Mic­receivers in the country," Stock says, Jackson believes his improvement higan's record jumped to 9-3. "Milt can run fast, catch the football, is also a result of additional experi­"We had them on the ropes," and think, which are three impor­ence. Lambert noted. "The other coach tant ingredients to a good receiver." "You get a llttle more confident told us so. Her entire team was 
Milt Jackson is well-known for his year after year," said Jackson. "You stunned, they were really down. But get to know the defenses. The we couldn't do it. No one played all coaches help out, and you get an­that well, we were inconsistant." other year's experience." Senior Josie Maternowski led the
The Notre Dame men's soccer 
With Howard and Miller injured, way for the Irish with 22 kills andteam played to a 0-0 deadlock last 
Tim Brown, a freshman, starts at split two service aces, while sophomorenight against Loyola in Chicago. 
end. Another freshman, Reggie Karen Sapp added 13 kills and oneNotre Dame's record is now 6-1­Ward, is Jackson's back-up at flanker. service ace. Sophomore Mollie Mer­2, while Loyola is 4-3-1. The Irish The Irish veteran downplays the in­chant contributed 11 kills and threeoutshot the Ramblers 14-9, and experience of the younger service aces, and junior MaryND goalie Mark Steranka col­receivers, however. McLaughlin added six kills and threelected his second shutout of the 
"I don't worry about them being sevices aces for Notre Dame. 
season. 
freshmen," said Jackson. "Once you Janice Hopkins was outstanding"Loyola played a good game," 
get action, you are experienced. You for Central Michigan, contributingsaid Irish coach Dennis Grace. "It know what it takes. Reggie, Tim, and 17 kills. Jill Gambotto added 11 killswas a victory for them and a loss all of them have had action. I don't and three service aces, and Undafor us. They did a nice job prepar­even think of them as freshman Swanson had nine kills and four ser­ing." 
anymore." vice aces. Amy Henderson addedThe Irish will take on DePaul 
Stock sees the relationship be­nine kills for Central Michigan. 
this Friday night at 8 p.m., at Car­
tween Jackson and this year's fresh­Next up on the Irish schedule istier Field. 
men as being similar to the JillSugltcb (2),]osie Maternowski (7), Klltbleen Morin (3), and Bowling Green. They visit the ACCDetails of last night's game, as 
relationship between Howard and the rest of the Notre Dame women's volleyball team bad their on Tuesday. It should be a tough
well as a preview of this 
Jackson in years past. bands full with a tough Central Michigan team Tuesday night, match, so some soul-searching is in
weekend's action, will appear in 
"When he Oackson) was learning, losing in four games. The Irish, who saw their record fall to 4-6, order for the Irish, and a victory is 
tomorrow's paper. 
Joe Howard was a big help taking prepare to face Bowltng Green on Tuesday. Chuck Ehrman recaps sorely needed. Better days are hope­him under his wing," Stock said. Tuesday's game in his story atright. fully ahead. 









