-...-..........-..---. ·-.---.~-~----~--~--~-~.....----· 
I. 
•.. 
"j i I • • :~ .~ 1 
. ·-----[ ' '-~ 
Chapin Engler, right, student body presidential 
candidate and his running mate john Dardin, dent Senate meeting. The Senate decided that with glasses, pleadtheircase to get on today's bal­write-in votes for the pair would be legal on(y if lot as write-in candidates during last night's Stu-"TheAlternative" were written on the ballot. 
New Saint Mary's library having drainage and heating malfunctions 
By JOAN GffiLIN 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's new S6 million library has been experiencing several drainage and heating mal­functions in recent months and offi­cials are blaming the harsh South Bend winter for the problems. 

Final inspection of the Cushwa­Leighton Library will occur this Thursday, according to Lowell Bar­ber, Saint Mary's Executive Assistant to the Controller of Plant Opera­tions. 
The library, dedicated on Sept. 3, 1982, has suffered no other problems thus far. Last winter was very mild, and the improper drainage and heating problems were not recognized until the onset ofthis year's harsh weather. "Obviously, there was no opportunity last year to test the adequacy of the heating problem," Barber said. 
Environmental Systems Design of Chicago, prepared an extensive study on the heating problem. They made a diagram of two sections: the tower and the ground floor. Adding more heat in a more effective way was the main goal of the engineers, who brought in two large unit heaters, now located at the entrance to the library. 
Evan Woollen Associates of In­dianapolis were the architects for the library. Tom Weigel, one of the architects on the project, said, " The heating system has been revised and we have increased the flow of hot water through the heating pipes at the perimeter ofthe building." 
In regards to the leaking problem in the library, Weigel explained the buildup ofice at the head ofthe roof downspouts has been worked on for several monthes now. The answer to the problem was installing heat cables in the downspouts to help melt the ice and snow that had ac­cumulated and was leaking into the building at the seams. 
Weigel said "The ice was being heated in the valleys of the roof, in contact with the slate. Melting snow flowed down the downspouts, but then hit the cold air at the edge of the roof, where there was no heating 
In Western circles, they call this emocratic phenomenon election
~
,day. 
Undergraduate students at Notre Dame can vote today for a new stu­dent body president and vice presi­dent, and they also will elect five new senators. 
Voting will take place during meal
l
.hours in the halls: II:15 am. to 1:3? 
tp.m. and 4:30p.m. to 6:30 p.m.Judt­cial board members fr t om each hall will monitor the voting. Students who live off campus can vote in the LaFortune Student Center this after­noon. 

~ Graduating seniors are eligible to gvote.i The candidates for student body 
president and vice president are: 
•Rob Bertino, a junior from Alumni,

I
tnd Cathy David, a junior from . 
Breen-Phillips. 
•Chris Tayback, a junior from Holy Cross, and Kelly Fitzgerald, a junior from Farley. 
A write-in ticket calling them­selves "The Alternative" was ap­proved last night by the Student Senate. The approval was needed be­cause the candidates did not submit 
·a petition on time. The ticket is: 
•Chapin Engler, a junior from Dillon, and John Dardis, a junior who lives offcampus. 
The candidates for Student Senate are: 
District 1: Alumni, Walsh, Lewis, Sorin, St. Ed's and Holy Cross halls. 
•Paul 
Healy, a St. Ed's junior. 

•Doug 
Wurth, a freshman moving to Alumni. 


cable. The water then refroze and formed a dam of some sort, not allowing the water to flow properly into the gutters. The water backed up on the shingles and created the leakage problems." 
The gutters on the roofdid, in fact. have the capacity to hold melted snow and ice, but no one could have anticipated the heavy snow and sub­zero temperatures this winter. " The building is so well-insulated and so energy efficient that the heat from 
see LIBRARY, page 4 


Marines to leave Beirut by March 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-The Reagan ad­ministration has set in motion plans to withdraw the U.S. Marines from Lebanon before mid-March, officials said yesterday. 
"The White House has made a decision to get the Marines out of Beirut and on the amphibious ships offshore within 30 days from last Saturday," said an administration of-

Elections held today for student body president, district senators 
District 2: Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Farley, Keenan and Stanford halls. 
•Pat 
Browne, a Stanford sophomore. 

•
Doug O'Brien, a Cavanaugh junior. 


District 3: Badin, Dillon, Fisher, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey, Pangborn an9 Carroll halls. 
•Dan 
McNamara, a Morrissey junior. 

•Mark 
Rolincik, a Morrissey fresh­man. 


District 4: Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla West and Pasquerilla East. 
•Tom 
Abood, a junior from Flanner. 

District 5: Off-campus. 

•Javier 
Oliva. 


Write-in votes are not counted unless specifically approved by the Student Senate. 
-



Student Senate allows write-in candidates on today's election ballot 
By CAROL CAMP 
Senior StaffReporter 
The Senate last night approved the write-in candidacy of student body president and vice president contenders Chapin Engler and John Dardis. 
Senate confirmation ofthe ticket's legitimacy means students will be able to vote for Engler and Dardis by writing the phrase "The Alternative" on their ballots. 
Accompanied by several suppor­ters, Engler and Dardis pleaded their case before the Senate. Acknowledg­ing "we've never done anything like this," Engler explained he decided to seek oftlce because he had a bad experience when he transferred to Notre Dame: 

"I knew I would do something about the transfer situation -I want to do something about something I see as wrong.." 
Engler also stated that when ap­pointed to serve as the off-campus representative to the Sophomore Advisory Council, he "couldn't do anything because the system needs to be decentralized." Finally, Engler became so frustrated with "the sys­tem" that he dropped out ofthe Uni­versity for a semester. 
Vice presidential candidate John Dardis told the Senate that although he understood the "rationale" be­hind the election rules, such rules nevertheless impede the function­ing ofthe democratic process: 
"Rules are supposed to facilitate democracy, not inhibit it... in this case, the nile (prohibiting write-in 

candidates) is inhibiting the democratic process." 
He added. "If the Senate represents the students and the good of the students, and respects students as its basis for being here. then it should allow us to he write· ins." 
Debate on both sides was heated. On the aftlrmative side, Grace Hall president Pete DiChara commented, "I think they should he allowed to be write-ins-T any student who goes to Notre Dame should ht· allowed to get votes." 
Student Body Vice President Peg­
gy Prevoznik concurred. "Their case 
should be considered singly ... after 
all, they did go through proper chan· 
nels to petition the Senate." 
Opponents to the measure were 
equally vehement in their argu­
ments. Senator Bob Riley noted "the 
reason for not allowing write -in 
votes is not just whimsical -it's to 
make rules for everybody who's run­
ning. Allowing write-ins throws out 
all those rules." 

Perhaps the most vocal opponent was Ombudsman Director Andy Tucker. Citing the cases of three Senate candidates who were not allowed to campaign because they had missed the deadline for declar­ing their candidacies, Tucker ob­served there was "no real reason to waive the write-in candidates rule, nor is there any reason to believe the pubidty (announcing potential can­didates' attendance at mandatory 
meetings) was inadequate." 
In addition, "I thi.1k the Senate es­
tablished a dangerous precedent 
see SENATE, page 4 
ficial who spoke only on condition he remain anonymous. 
"The clock started then," added this official, who said the decision was made after Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger delivered the 
Pentagon's proposal for withdraw­ing the Marines to the White House last Friday. 
Such a timetable would bring the 1,200-1,300 Marines serving in the multinational force from their posi­
tions at the Beirut International Air­port to the ships by March 12. 
Officials said last week a relatively small number of U.S. military per­sonnel, perhaps 200 or so, would remain to guard the U.S. embassy, train the Lebanese army and handle communications and other tasks. 
Earlier yesterday, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said Presi­dent Reagan was moving toward a withdrawal of the Marines to the ships within 30 days and "we will do so ifit is consistent with the political and military situation." 
On Sunday, Weinberger said "substantial numbers (of Marines) should be out by the end of this 
month, and probably it is perfectly feasible the entire operation can be completed within less than 30 days." 

Sources said Weinberger gave three options to the White House on Friday for withdrawing the troops ­one for a brief pullout la~ting a few days, a second for a withdrawal taking 30 days, and a third that would stretch the process out, pos­sibly over several months. 

Standing besides a bullet-riddled stop sign a French soldierfromAP the Second RIMA peers through binoculars at the green line divid­ing East from West Beirut. 
. -.. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 14, 1984 -page 2. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 

In Brief 
English playboy Michael Telling, accused 
of munkrin!o\ his Amnican-born wife, was committed for trial yes­terday in Crown Court -the final step before the trial gets under­way in Exett·r. Mr~. Tdling's headless body was t()llnd in a forest in southwest En!o\land last September. Telling was arrested when au­thorities uncovered the torso's head in a garage at the couple's luxury home in West Wycombe, :H miles northwest of London. Australian-born Telling, 33. was ordered held without bail, but no trial date was set. Mrs. Telling, the former Monika Elizabeth 
Zumsteg, .26, was originally from Calit(lrnia, and her parents, Louis and Elsa Zumstt·g, live in Santa Rosa, Calif. She and Telling, a cousin of multimillionaire meat tycoon Lord Vestey, had been married 18 mnths when the murder was discovered. Telling, an avid racing fan, lived the lift: ofa country squire with his wife. -AP 
President Ricardo de Ia Espriella or 
Panama resignt·d yesterday and the Supreme Court swore in Vice Presidt·ntjorgt· llluc:ca to replace him. lllueca also is President ofthe 39th U.N. Gent·ral Assembly. There was no immediate explanation of the change in leadership, which came three months before the prt·sidential election schedult.-d for May 6-the first since a coup in 1968. The National Guard, Panama's army, has ruled the country either directly or through selected presidents since the coup. -AP 
The Michiana Mathematics Contest for 
Women will be held at Saint Mary's Madeleva Hall on March 31. The eighth annual contest is partially funded by the Bendix Corp. and organized by the Saint Mary's mathematics department. It includes individual and team competition in geometry, algebra, and advanced mathematics. Information is available through Don Balka of the matlwmatics department at 284-4496. -The Observer 
Funneling illegal money from El Salvador's 
black market into Miami banks is a tactic many Salvadoran business­man are using to elude government rules that limit use of scarce foreign l'apital for necessities, according to a secret U.S. study. The study, prepared by an outside consulting firm for the U.S. Agency for International Development, suggests overhauling Salvadoran banking and enforcing anti-black market laws to reduce corruption. The abuses cited in the I 00-page report could undermine congres­sional support for President Reagan's request for more U.S. economic aid to El Salvador, which is fighting a civil war with leftist guerrillas. Reagan wants S674 million for 1984 and 1985. -AP 
Lie-detector tests conducted on John z. De Lorean were refused yesterday as evidence by a federal judge who said the automaker's constant body movements during the tests made the results questionable. U.S. District judge Robert Takasugi, who will pn·side over De Lorean's cocaine trafficking trial, refused specifical­ly to admit a test commissioned by defense attorneys that showed De Lorean to be truthful. But attorneys said later the ruling also prevented the use ofa government test that showed De Lorcan to be lying. Takasugi, himself a trained polygrapher, ruled against the ddl.·nst". noting that lk Lorean's attorneys tried to explain away the body movements that were clearly visible on videotapes. -AP 
PopeJ0 hn Paul II, at a meeting Sunday with a~ ·I;;lian sot'l'lT team, said sports can serve as a powerful tool for moral and social education. "I am convinced that sports ... can be a potent factor in moral and social education, both on the personal and com­munity kvcl," he told the players ofTorino, a professional team from the: northern city ofTurin. "I rc:mind you not to consider the activity as an t'tlll in it~df. but ratht·r as a precious element that is the fruit of tht· integration of physical with spiritual gifts," he said. The meeting wa~ hdd in the Vatican Throne Roon·.._-AP 
Notre Dame has received $102,000 to 
establish a special Memorial Lihrary collection consisting of books on dtemicalt·ngineering. The collc:crion is a gift of Franklin E. Eck, president of Advanct·d Drainage Systems in Columbus, Ohio, and a 19·H Notrt· Dame gr;1duate. -The Ohsen•er 
Saint Mary's Class of'87 voted tht·msclvcs some otlkt·r~ yt·stnday asJeanne llcller ( Prn;. ), Angie llundmen ( V.Pres ). Betsy Burke (Sec.), and Jill Gillig ( l'rt·as.) won a decisive victory in till' run-off election. Thq· solidly ddeatt·d the team of Michelle <:okman ( l'rt·s. ).Jenny Blanz( \'. Prt·s. ), Sara llonningford ( St·c. ), and Patty Curran ( Trt·a~.) by t·apturing 63 pt·rcent of the vote. Coleman, Blanz. llonningti,nl and Curran obtainnl !l7 percent. Election Com­missioner Ann :vtaric: Kollman was pleased with tht· amount ofvoter tumout. Ahout 'i'i pt·rt-cnt oftht· Frt·shman class voted. as opposed to a rnudt lowt·r JKrlTntagl· in the recent Freshman Council dec­tons. -The ( Jhsert•er 
Weather 
Spring may be coming yet to South Bend! Sunny today with a High in mid 'ills. Clear and cool tonight with a low in low to mid 30s. Tomorrow will be more of the same; partly sunny with highs in low to mid 'iOs. -AP 
Production Consultant .. .....Stt'\'t· Foster IJt•SIR" l:'tlitor... . . .... Carol<.· Laugkr /)(•Sf;(II Assistants... . .. \X' ill it· Suarc:z /.ayout Staff... Frank. Tina. Sharon. Stacy, 

The_obserYer 
Tht· Observer ( t·sl'!-> ~99 l--1000) is 
and Johnpuhll!'tht·d .\tontla) through l'riday and 
1)'/"'S<'II<'rs .~ti<·hdle and Ted 
on homt· foothall Satuniay!'l, l'Xt.:t·pr 
Neu•s l:"dilor... . ............ D01n .Me.:( :ullough
durinf,( t·x;lnt and vat:ation period~. The 
Cop}1 1:'ditor.... .... Tt·s~ Guarino 
Ohservt:r i~ puhli~lu·d hy tht· 'tm.lt:nts of 
.\fuJrts Copl' Etlilor........ ...Jam: Hc:alcy
till" l'ni\'t'f!'lity of Notrt· Danll' and Saint 
Vteu•pointl.ayuut ........... Kc:n Ct·rahona 
Mary\ <.ollt',Mt'. Suhst.·riptions my ht· 
Featu.n•s Copr Editor... ... ~arah Hamilton
purcha,t•d t<>r S2<; per year ( S I <; per 
Featu,.t•s Lt~J·out... . ....... Sarah and Mary
!'tt'lllt'!'ltt·r) hy wrilin~ The Observer, 
ND /Jar l:'dilr!r........ ...... Melinda Moore 
P.( >. Box(.), Notrl' Damt.'.lnt.liana -l6CJI:Jh. 
.\MC /Jay Editor... ........ Maggi<-O'Connell 
The Observer is a member ofThe As­
A<l Design....... . ...... Jeannie Eul'11 
sociated Press. All rt·produl'tion right. 
Pbotograpbt•r..... . .. Pc:tc: Lacht.·s 
an: rt·,c·rvt·d. 


The voters are smarter than you think 
Several weeks of campaign rhetoric come to an end today here at Notre Dame as student voters hasten offto 
the ballot box. The importance of putting a check by a candidate's name on the ballot will not come home to Margaret Fosmoe ~ roost for many months until some burning campus 
Managing_ Editor 
W.t

issue will demand a united student response. For exact­ly this reason. the privilege of casting a ballot should -----,-~,n-s-:"id-=-e--=r=-u-e-s-;d-a""':"'}'j' ~ ­never be taken lightly. 
The responsibilities of the next student body presi­dent and vice president will bear more heavily on dum or by any other means. Docs this indicate that the today's winners than on many of the offices' previous student body is considered bright cnought to vote a occupants. With the University considering major candidate into office, but not astute enough to aid in the reforms in the alcohol and final exams policy, among decision-making process of the University? other items, next year's officers will have much oftheir The student body president, vice president and stu­work cut out for them. dent senators are going to have to start seeking student 
One priority of student government will have to be input. The fundamental intelligence and interest of the reestablishing the Senate as a representation of the stu­average Notre Thlme student must be recognized. dent body. The duties ofstudent body president do not We are often told that Notre Dame students are involve arbitration between students and ad­supposed to be the best and the brightest. This doesn't ministrators. The office of exclude those who choose student body president was not to become office­designed to represent the seekers. Simply because a consensus of the students student opts not to ruf\ for who elected him. office doesn't mean hili or 
In order to regain student her ideas are any ,less trust and respect, the next feasible or important. student body president will Campaign obligations do have to initiate a dramatic not end immediately after reversal of the current drift the ballots arc counted. Any of student politics. Radical current lack of faith in stu­as it may sound, the new of­dent government may very ficers are going to have to well be attributable to a lack listen to the students who of faith in the student body elected them before they on the part of student determine Senate policy on representatives. major issues. The number of This year's Student Senate student privileges which are has been characterized by currently teetering on the the inability or unwilling­brink ofextinction illustrate ness to take a strong stand the way an estranged stu­, ,¥J.III· on any major issues. The dent body is an endangered student body. Senate will ...ontinue to be largely ineffectual until it is 
The voters know more about what is happening at able to present a stand to the administration and back it Notre Dame than many campus politicians realize. And up with proofofstudent support. the students would like to have their opinions known.. If Listen to the voters. they didn't, why would up to 65 percent (last year's figure) of undergraduates bother to cast a vote in the first place? For all the talk about a self-absorbed, apat­hetic student body there are a remarkable number of people who keep themselves well-informed on campus issues. Perhaps it is characteristic of a self-absorbed, apathetic student government to attribute such 
The views expressed in the Iflside cotun{n qualities to its constituents. 
are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­Interested parties have had to hunt around 
sarily reflect the views of the editorial board 

Nicuwland Science Hall for the mysterious site of the 
or staff.

weekly Student Senate meeting long enough. It's time for campus leaders to go in search of the student body. 
Not once this year was a comprehensive probe ofstu­dent opin t ion attempted. No single all-inclusive survey of the student body was conducted, through a referen­
•

***************** a un1que
~Buy· :

* ~ opportunity : r.--observer ~ for
,. I , ... 
-Math: Majors/Minors­
~
i~.

ilass~iedsi 
* ) ~ 
,.. -, ~z· --tt
* • ~ 
***************** 


For you and the world itself. As a Peace Corps volun­teer, you can put your degree to work at a challeng­ing, demanding and unique opportutlity. You'll be meeting new people, learn in~ a new language, exper­iencing a new culture and gatning a whole new out­look. And while you're building your future you'll help people in developing countries in the critical area of math education. You can help better educate teachers and students in mathematics, resulting in better employment prospects for students and the developing countries overall ability to have access to the higher technologies critical to their develop­ment efforts. The financial rewards may not be great, ~ut as a Peace Corps volunteer, your opportunity for 
growthiscertain.see Peace Corps Rep at Government Career Day on 
Science Hall Interviews March 
6.& 7 In~erested seniors can s~gn UR ~n advance in Place­ment Office 



The Observer Tuesday, February 14, 1984 -page 3 
Reagan seeks better cooperation with new Soviet General Secretary 
Associated Press cooperation," said White House welcomed his statement that 
spokesman Larry Speakes. despite the many differences be­
Speakes said Bush would stress tween the Soviet Union and the 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­"our commitment to peace and in United States, "today it is more im­mtmstration said yesterday it particular to the search for mutually portant than ever before to multiply wanted to join the new Soviet acceptable agreements" during his our efforts toward mutual under­leader, Konstantin U. Chernenko, in discussions in Moscow. standing." achieving "constructive coopera­In his first speech in his new post, tion" but emphasized that improv­Chernenko said the Soviet Union The State Department said, ing relations between the would match any security threat "These are our goals as well. What is superpowers "has to b t e a two-way from the "hot heads of militant ad· needed is to move from words to street." venturists" in the West. deeds in building a more con· 
With Vice President George Bush "We can very well see the threat !lructive ll.S.-Sovict relationship." heading for Moscow to represent created today to humankind by the President Reagan at the funeral of reckless, adventurist actions of im­As for the po.ssihility of an early Soviet President Yuri V. Andropov, perialism's aggressive forces," he meeting between Reagan and Cher­officials in Washington said the said. "We do not intend to dictate nenko, Department spokesman John United States would welcome dis­our will to others. but we will not Hughes reiterated the administra­cussions with Soviet leaders. But the permit the military equilibrium that tion is interested in arranging such likelihood of a meeting between has been achieved to be upset." an encounter if a positive result can Reagan and Cherncnko remained The State Department, he assured. uncertain at best. meanwhile, underscored a more 
APPhoto

Reagan's spokesman greeted the conciliatory passage in the speech, Speakes said any get-acquainted Konstantin U. Chernenko, 72, was named yesterday as the new announcement that Chernenko and welcomed Chernenko's 
meeting would need to be well­General Secretary ofthe Soviet Communist Par~v after a reportedw6uld move into the top position of expressed support for solving inter· prepared and should also carry 
power struggle within the Politboro. Chernenko succeeded the late general secretary of the Communist national disputes through negotia­"reasonable promise for success in Yuri V. Andropov. Party by calling for closer ties be­tion and his readiness to lessen results." tween the two nations. tensions through practical deeds. Stopping in Luxembourg on his "We invite the new leaders of the A State Department statement way to Moscow, Bush said he would 

Rectors report fewer 
Soviet lhion to work with us in es­took note of an article Chernenko tell the new Kremlin leadership the tablishing a basis for greater mutual wrote for the London Sunday Times United States wants to negotiate, but understanding and constructive before Andropov's death. It "it has to be a two-way street." 

R.A. applications 
By ERIK HICKEY on application numbers, since the

ND frosh less liberal than peers 
Neu•sStaff tabulation is done by hand and will 
not he completed until later this 

Special to The Observer The widest disparity between private universities. Far fewer Notre There has been a reported week. 
Notre Dame freshman and those Dame freshmen, 24.6 percent, decrease in the number of R.A. ap· The rectors of Flanner and Breen­
Unlike most oftheir peers, incom· entering other private universities condone cohabitation before mar· plicants campuswidc, hut rectors of Phillips Halls, Bro. Michael Smith ing freshmen at Notre Dame oppose occurs in the question of legalized riage than do the 45.9 percent in the various halls arc confident this will and Sr. Nadine Overbeck, both legal abortion, capital punishment, abortion. Asked if they believe national average. in no way affect the quality of R.A.'s agreed the decrease could indeed cohabitation before marriage, and "strongly or somewhat' that abor­Compared with 48.9 percent of selected. have been slightly affected by the extramarital sex. tion should be legal, 26.9 percent of freshmen in other private univer­The number of applicants is upcoming possibility of alchohol 
A survey of the incoming Notre Dame's present freshman sities who found extramarital sexual indeed slightly smaller than last regulations. Overbeck is currently freshmmen indicates that they differ class responded in the affirmative, relations permissible "if people like year, hut Father Gregory Green, as· serving her first year as rector of significantly in attitudes and compared with 60.8 percent in the each other," only 26.3 of Notre sistant vice president for student af· Breen-Phillips and did not have opinions from their counterparts in national sample. Dame agreed. Slightly fewer Notre fairs, reasons that this is due to the figures available for last year's R.A. other private universities. Another significant, if somewhat Dame freshmen, 62.9 percent comparitively high number of ap· applications. She had, however, 
According to the national survey, narrower, disparity is evident in at­compared with 67.6 percent in plicants last year. heard the numbers were down as a administered last fall by the titudes toward the death penalty. At other private universities, thought it Green speculated that perhaps whole. "I think it's very difficult for a American Council on Education and Notre Dame, 41.2 percent ofincom­important or essential to be "very last year's high numbers were due to person to make a committment to the University of California at Los ing freshmen favor its abolition, well off financially." economic reasons, and a slight con· be responsible to a (alcohol) policy An_geles, far more freshmen at Notre compared with 31.8 percent oftheir According to the survey, a cern over the possibility ofa housing when they don't know what it is," D;lme have conservative opmwns national peers. decade-long trend toward political lottery. He suggested this year's she commented. 'X'hatt:ver the thim do freshman in other private In family issues, Notre Dame moderation among Notre Dame number was a norm rather than a reason for the decrease, Overbeck universities. freshmen seem more likely to up· freshmen is continuing. Notre Dame low point. Green could offer no in·, feels the quality ofthe R.A.'s selected 
Notre Dame freshman place a hold traditional values, 78.7 percent freshmen describing their political sight why the number of applica· will not suffer since generally only higher priority on the raising of a of them finding the objective of orientation as "liberal" made up lions was down, hut speculated that more qualified people apply. She family than do freshman in the na-raising a family to he "essential or 20.5 percent of those surveyed, academic considerations may have also said some students did not app­tiona! average, and they seem slight-very important" commpared with compared with the 34.5 percent played a part. ly simply because they thought ly less interested in making money. 69.9 percent of freshmen at other who called themselves liberal ten Exact figures were not available there would he too many applicants. 
years ago. The ranks of Notre Dame 

•
• 
: •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• 
freshmen describing their political orientation as "conservative" have
•• SMC sophmores plan
swollen from 19.4 percent ten years
Get into the spotlight! : 
to 29 percent last fall. More Notre Dame freshmen. 93
• weekend for parents
percent, were graduated in the top
• 

twenty percent of their high school
• 
a new activity, a Sports Festival tor
• By LAUREEN WOLFE 
class than their peers in other Saturday, Feb. 25 between I 0 a.m.
The Features Dept. of • private universities, 67.5 percent of News Staff 
and I 2 p.m. Parents will he provided 

• 
whom had achieved equal academic
•

The Observer is looking Tradition is a key factor in the with court space and an aerobic
rank. Of the Notre Dame freshmen class in Angela Athletic Facility, ascontinuing popularity of Sopho­
• 49.6 percent were graduated fro~ well as use ofthe pool in Regina Hall. 
more Parents Weekend at Saint
for writers interested in • secondary school with an A or A 
Other activities planned for Feb.

Mary's, according to the weekend's
• 
average compared with 26.4 per­
•

art, theatre or movies. chairwoman, Mary Beth Lavezzorio . 25 include the traditional College
cent in the national sample. 
open house, mass, and dinner­The weekend. which is Feb. 24-26.

• 

Notre Dame was the first univer­
See the Features Editor holds the theme of"Out Here On My dance, all of which are being or­
• 

sity chosen by 86.7 percent of its 
Own," from the movie, "Fame." ganized by Theresa Guarino and• present class; in the national sample, Therese Ryan. Guarino is also
• 
The parents ofthe Class of'86 can
for more info. and see • 73 percent of freshmen at private 
responsible for the weekend'santicipate a weekend full of ac­universities were so fortunate. 

closing event, the Sunday Brunch. 

tivities, the first of which is a 20-actyour name up in lights-• Notre Dame freshman also seem In addition to all the activities in 
• student talent show. This perfor­
more optimistic than the freshman the works, students can he excitedmance offine arts and less-than-fineweli, in print anyway. •• of other private universities about 
arts is scheduled for Feb. 24 and or· about the low price of the weekend,their academic future, 81.8 percent
•

• 
ganized by Janet Mackey and Lori according to Lavezzorio. A S70 fee
of them expecting "to be satisfied 
Janko. covers the cost of the entire
with college" compared with 68.4 
Breaking away from tradition a weekend for a student and her 
percent of their national counter-
little, Kelly Aisthorpe has organized parents. If there is an extra guest, an additional $18 is required. Amidst 
.....I ...IIIIIIIIHIIIIIIHII..._....IIIHIIIIHIIIIHIIHIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIII
---------------------------.. , parts. 
the February "blahs" sophomores

NEW DONORS RECEIVE 
can look forward to a low cost 
weekend full of activities to he

Model United Nations 
$11.00 CASH 
enjoyed with their parents. 

After Initial Donation 
~-****************t

AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS Organizational Meeting 
: Buy ~ 

515 Lincolnway West 
7:00pm LaFortune Little Theatre 
ir * 
ir * 

Tues and Sat 8:00-4:30 
: lJbserver ~

Wednesday, February 15 
Wed and Fri 9:00-4:30 234·6010 
ir * 

Closed Mon and Thurs 
(Those interested are urged to attend) 
: classifieds ~ 

• IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIHIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIII...........IIHIIIIIIId 
ir ~ 

' o ·, ·,. •,_"i..""-"\. "I."•. ·,~"-···'-'-•·. •. "'·"-....•.•.•.,•,.•.,'•... '-.' .. '.,'.. '•11• '•t 
·--~ --------... -~--.. -.-.---....... --... -.. -.--...... "' ......... -.. --­
The Observer Tuesday, February 14, 1984 -page 4 


Rock group Clash regroup after problem-plagued reorganization 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The Clash, hardy 
survivors of the British punk revolu­
tion, are regrouping as they con­
tinue their baltic against 
complacency. 
"Punk is an attitude that kids 
need," said singer-songwriter­
guitaristJoc Strummer, still an angry 
young man at age 30, as he sipped a 
wine spritzer at a Hollywood hotel. 
The band was using the hotel as ht·adquarters during a recent series ofCalifornia performances. 
The shows wert· The Clash's first since the departure last yt·ar of Mick Jones, who co-wrote many of the band's best-known songs wi t th Strummer, and who shared lead vo­cals as well. 
"A friend is someom· you can tell anything to," said Strummer, whose Mohawk hairstyle has given way to a 
more modish crop of orange-dyed 
hair. 
"For example, I told him he couldn't produce, and instead of saying, 'Oh yeah? let's talk about it,' he went off and sulked for several weeks." 
There were other problems as well, Strummer adds, including Jones' reluctance to share songwrit­ing credit -and revenues -with other band members, in the spirit of the group's avowed socialist philosophy. 
According to Jones' lawyer. Brian Carr, the rock star filed a lawsuit in High Court in London, which has frozen the band's profits from their hit "Combat Rock" LP and the US fes­tival. 
"Jones is seeking his entitlement for his share ofthe income as a mem· her ofThe Clash," Carr said in an in­terview with the Associated Press in London. "l-Ie still regards himselfas a 


Indiana pulls products with EDB from stores 
Associated Press products nationwide. 
INDIANAPOLIS -State Board of State health officials said they'll I kalth inspectors began pulling take samples from seven or eight samples of grain-based products warehouses over the next few days from Indiana grocery warehouses and expect to have the results back yesterday in an effort to dctt·rmine if by early next week. there arc any nmtaminations of the Any food products found to suspected cancer-causing chemical exceed the federal limit of 30 parts EDit per billion for EDB's will be 
Tht· ll.S. Environmental Protec­removed from the shelves, said tion Agency banned the usc of ct­Ernie Parker. head ofthe state health hvlcnt: dihromidc. or EDB, in board's manufacturing food section. 
St·ptcmhn. The chemical is used as a All the major food companies in pt•sticidt· and gasolint· additive and Indiana are cooperating with the has been linked fO cancer in state and conducting their own tests 
laboratory animals. The pesticide from sections where samples were has hn·n turning up in grain drawn, Parker said, 

Senate 
continuedfrom page I 
that makes regards ti>r deadlines use­less. While the Senate's decision was not made with malicious intent, it undermim:s tht· authority of the elections committee to interpret tht· rules. Furthermore, it b a tremen­dous injustice to Chris (Tayback) and Rob (Bertino) and to those who have liwd by the rules aft along." 
Both Tayhack and Bertino abstained from voting, but both con­curred with tht· Senate's decision. Tayhack stated. "I abstained out of good den>rum. hut I do think that certain legitimate write-in can­didates should he allowed." 
Bertino shared his opponent's vil'ws: "I'm glad that the Senate thought it out rationally, and that it wasn't hiast·d bt·cause ofthe fact that two of tht· presidential candidates were members of the Senate." 
Vice presidential candidate Dardis commented that tht· Senate vote was "a small victory in itsdf." 
In t·a...,e ofa run-off, each ticket will 

Library 
continuedfrom page I 
insidt· the building did not escape through tht· roof to ht:lp mdt the ~now and ice." Barber said. The stKt't'SS ofthe insulation job actually worked against tht· prohkm, which is quite oppositt· the t·a~ in l.emans llall. "Lt·nuns is an old building with old insul.ttion. and tlu·rt'liJre, the lwat got·s right up through tht· roo( mt'lting all the snow. preventing any problems likt· 1he library has," said llarbt-r 
On the west l'lt·vation of tin· building. there were buildups of several feet of it-c at times. The heat tradng cables on tht· roofdid not ex­tt"IHI up on the roof t·nough to ht·at tht· cntin· track ofsnow. 
There was very littk damage to 
receive an additional thirty dollar campaign allocation from Student Government to off.~et campaign ex­penses. 
The Senate also approved all but one of the Student lhion Steering Committee's proposed changes in the organization ofStudent Union~ 
In brief, the following changes were made: 
The name of the organization will be changt·d from Student Union to Student Activities Programming Board. 
Due to the removal of his power to allocate funds, the "comptroller" 

will  he  referred  to  as  the  
"controller."  
"Commissioners"  will  become  

"committee chairmen," since they will be working with committees comprised ofdorm commissioners. 

The membership of the Steering Committee will consist of the board manager, the controller, two chair­men elected by their fellow chair­men, the ~tudent body president or vice president, (to he decided be­tween themselves), the Student Government treasurer. and the 1-IPC chairman. 
the interior ofthe library, other than occasional wet carpeting. None of the books or equipment were ruined. 

The College had workers chop· ping ict· and removing as much snow as was possible, although there was not much anyone could do he­cause of the freezing temperatures. Chains preventing students from walking directly under the falling snow wt·re not very e!Iec.:tive. These chains merely f<>rtTd students to jump over them. Saint Mary's junior, Beth Murphy, said," No one walked around the chains, because many times, the snow on' the alternate romes was nut shovelkd enough and it was ca..~ier for people to just cross the chains." 
ke and snow guards have been put up on the roof, and the engineers and architects are looking into fur­ther solutions to ht· worked on this summer. 
member ofThe Clash. There has not 
been a contractual breakup between 
the other members and himself" 
Strummer said the band has spent most of the seven years it's been to· gether in debt, and only recently began raking in big money with its last LP, "Combat Rock." It also received a reported 5500,000 for performing at the US festival last spring. 
Two young guitarists -Nick Shepard and Vince White replaced Jones. Both are "punks from '77," Strummer said proudly. Pete Howard is the latest to man the band's drums, and bassist Paul Simonon is the only remaining original member besidesStrummer. 
"Sandinista!" -a three-record al­
bum -was far too long, he said. 

"It must take hours to play," he U.S. Vice President George Bush talks to newsmen upon his ar­said. "Just because you're rock stars rival at London's HeathrowAirport. Bush arrived in London rm his doesn't give you the right to bore way to attend the funeral ofSoviet leader Yuri Andropov, u•hose people." body is ~ying in state in the Hall of Unions in Moscow. 


WAs~iNGTON INTERNs~i p 
Juniors or Seniors with a 3.0 average: interested in Congress? Earn 16 credits on Capitol Hill. 
• 
Unique Internships based on your interests. Work with members of Con­gress in their offices and on their com­mittees. 

• 
Seminars with leading government experts. focusing on current policy issues. 

• 
Washington Faculty headed by the chairman of the Congressional Intern Advisory Council. 

• 
Discussion Groups to share inlor­mat ion and opinions with fellow student participants from around the country 


Filing deadline for Semester I: 
April2. 
For applications and information: 


LACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVA 
Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee, the reknown acting team of Broadway and Hollywood will be speaking and reading selected works on February 16, 7:00p.m. at the Li~rary Auditorium) 
1lluV 

' I h I :! .'I'' ),~ 'J ~(' (h· th hr11 JflJt."lh(Ju:IIJ[uJ :;l.J,<~u .)IIJ Ulll>,t.I'JJJ·.)( .• ;l.lri'JIII< . ,;, Jtl II I 'JfiJk 


Vieweoint 
Tuesday, February 14, 1984 -page 5 
United States foreign policy ethnocentric 
In the 1960s and 1970s, America poured billions of dollars and 50,000 lives into Viet­nam. We organized the South Vietnamese army, trained it and ferried it into battle. 
Richard Cohen 
The Cohen column 

\\ ht 11 we pulled out our troops, South Viet­nam collapsed. 
In 1982 and 1983, America sent military ad­visors to El Salvador. They trained the army, taught it how and when to fight, and then, af­ter suitable graduation parades, certified it fit for battle. In late 1983, guerrillas took a gar­rison and a bridge defended by the newly or­ganized army. 
At the same time, America moved into Lebanon. It armed and trained the Lebanese army and pronounced it the centerpiece of the f.ew shaky government. "We have done a t1ne job of training and equipping the Leb· ese army," the President said Dec. 15. "~t L a good and well_-trained force." In the last SIX onths. the President has pronounced the Lebanese army "fine," "well-trained," "effective," "capable," "rebuilt" -everything but what it was when it came to the show­down in West Beirut, which was nowhere in sight. 
Historians looking back at this period would have to conclude that America was the national personification of the old Bourbon kings: It learned nothing and forgot nothing. 
From Vietnam through Central America to Lebanon, America seized upon civil wars, declared them East-West battlegrounds and rushed in men and material. It ignored ethnic, religious or class differences and assumed that new uniforms, helicopters and the American Way ofWar would make the difference. 
Cultural anthropologists could accuse the United States of being ethnocentric -of seeing foreign places and peoples as exotic versions of America and Americans. Thus, in Lebanon, an army that virtually did not exist last year was this year supposed to make the difference. 
And thus in Lebanon, people whose primary allegiance was either to their religious or ethnic groups were, in the course ofthe year, supposed to shed that heritage and 
proclaim their first loyalty to something called the nation. 
The rubble that once was Beirut is proof that this did not happen. Several hundreds of years of ethnic and sectarian strife could not be overcome in a year. Even the Israelis, whose knowledge of Lebanon is unparalleled, have been humbled by their occupation of that country. When they invaded in June, 1982, they did not just cross a national border, but one between the First World and the Third World. They were trapped by their own mentality .. 
Only an optimist would conclude that Lebanon will be a lesson for us. Every indica­tion is otherwise. The situation there has not slowed the U.S. military buildup in Central America nor dampened the official en­thusiasm with which the Kissinger Commis­sion report was received. Once again. we are prepared to tackle age-old social and cultural problems with military and economic assis­tance. We will show the Salvadorans or the Hondurans how to fight and, if need be, do some of the fighting ourselves. 
But as in Vietnam or Lebanon, people will not fight for a cause that makes no sense to them. Lebanon may very well be important to America's Mideast policies, but that means no­thing to a member of a Moslem militia or the Christian Phalange. What he wants is more parochial: security for his family and a say in the way he is governed. 
The same holds for Central America. The soldiers of El Salvador refuse to fight at night or in small units, not because the strategy has not occurred to them, but because it's dan­gerous. They are unwilling to risk their lives for a government which has done nothing for them -nothing, that is, but draft them into the army. 
The only hope for the government is that most ofthe peasants hold the same view ofthe guerrillas. Mostly, they simply want to be left alone. 
So again we are pulling American soldiers out ofa country that has collapsed around us. Retreats, not reappraisals, have become our forte and we die not once, like the brave, nor more than once. like the coward, but over and over again like the fooL Our real enemy is our arrogance. 
On to El Salvador. 
( L) 1984, Tbt• IX"m;bington Post Companv 

Dangers of everyday life at Saint Mary's 
Dangers are everywhere! Even here on the quiet and remote Saint Mary's campus, dan­gers abound. Some of the things we take for granted are those that insurance companies 
Mary Burke 
Guest column 

have-headaches about daily. 
The snow that winter brings makes walking to the Cushwa-Leighton Library a "DANGER." The white accumulation on the roofhas a ten­dency to fall on unsuspecting students as they 
make their way to the library. 
. 
~e grounds crews have carefully bar­ric-ed two sidewalks to the library to ward off ch danger. However, ingenious students, taki g their lives into their hands, prefer to wallt over, under and just to the side of the 
barricade. The grounds people would prefer that students approach the library straight on and therefore save their lives. 
Winter brings another danger, the LeMans parking lot. People have been seen flat on their backs due to a little slip on the plowed land. The lot has an abundance ofpuddles, ice formations and slush which make passage a mind boggling experience. 
Unseen pools ofsalt are also treacherous to the penny-loafers which pass by daily. Saint Mary's Security, which regulary patrols the lot, also provides danger for students' wallets while trying to bring a sense ofsecurity. Their famo: us parking tickets are prevalent, not only in the winter, but throughout the year. 
SAGA, the food service, has long been con­sidered a danger to health. Some day caterpil­lars, flies and lady-bugs have been seen on plates. SAGA claims they are trying to improve the quality of the food and that they are looking forward to comments. 
Alternatives that students often take are vendo-land or ordering out. These al­ternatives, however good they taste, often become addictive and expensive. 
Every day, many students encounter the showers which bring additional danger. Once the student has disrobed and is awaiting a refreshing shower the trouble begins. Water is used, not only by those in the shower, but also by those using the sinks and toilets. 
The latter receive preferential treatment; those in the ~howers must suffer. Showerers complain ofsuddenly being overcome by ex­tremely hot water and fear getting second or third degree burns. 
If she is lucky, she may receive such treat­ment not one but many times during her at­tempt to become clean. 
The shuttles are another problem. Running after the shuttle is dangerous. Falling, slipping and having books fly as the shuttle continues on its way is not easy on our now clean bodies. 
Those who decide to walk often encounter the shuttle passing them. As the shuttle departs it leaves them the gift of gaseous fumes and a gust of wind. 
If all this physical angui!il;J••is not-enough, there is also mental anguish. Once she has made it to the library safely she realizes how much work has not been completed and how much lies ahead. She must make the taxing decision ofwhat comes first and what can wait until immediately before the exam. 
Probably two of the hardest things that the mind must decide are "how important is the work I have to do?" and "Do I have time to go out?" These questions in themselves are dan­gerous. Incorrect answers may mean harm from our parents, not to mention from our professors, advisors and future employers. 
A student can avoid many of these dangers by making the right decisions. Being covered with snow, lying flat on our backs in the parking lot, paying no:oo for a parking ticket and being out the night before a test arc all events we must deal with in our lives as a col­lege students. 
At college we are trained to make decisions, but making the right ones is not easy. In­surance companies only wish we could live safely. 
,.1• · 

Mary• Burke is ajunioratSaint Mary•'s major­
ing in Humanistic Studies. She is from River 
Forest, II/. 


EditorialBoard  DepartmentManagers  
Editor-in-Chief............................... David Dziedzic  
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l'ni­ Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn  Crmtroller...............................  .....Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Marv's College. It does not necessarily reflect  News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide  Atlz•ertising Manager........  .............Jeanie Poole  
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­ News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh  Urcu/ation Manager........ ................ Mark Miotto  
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa  Saint Mary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski  \rstems Manager....  .........Kevin Williams  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present  Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan  
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community,  Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher  

Founded November 3, 1966 
and the free expression ofvaryingopinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower 


Showcase 
Tuesday, February 14, 1984 -page 6 

In search of the perfect Vale 

With the feast ofSt. Valentine approaching, a team of roving 
Observer reporters crossed the campus in search of answers to a question that has plagued history: 
"What is your idea of the perfect 
Valentine's gift?" Here are some of the respol}ses obtained. 
··something they won't throw away after a whik." 
Chris Kelling '87 
"If you kd creative, write some­thing. I once wrote this story all about this girl I had been going out with and gave it to her." 
john Kuhlmann '84 
"That's a tough one. Especially around hne. I'd rather st·nd !lowers than candy, hecaust· everyone's so worried about their weight." 
Mike Conroy '84 

"My family's good health, and of courst· it would he nice to have a (national) championship on top." 
Gerry Faust, Head Football Coach 
"A gross of long stem red roses. Girls just love them. They'd have a cow ( ovt·r the roses)." 
john Coen '85 


What, no St. Valentine? 
Associated Press D'Ascola threw up his hands and laughed. Then he pulled out the "Be my Valentine" makes sense Vatican's official encyclopedia of 
to a lot of people, but it is a saints, "Bibliotheca Sanctorum," mystt·ry to the Vatican. In the lloly which lists 16 men named Valentine City. the legend ofSt. Valentine, or who have been eanonized. They hail ratht·r Saints Valentine. i~ assodated from Italy, franee, Germany and more with ht·adless bodies than with Spain. Two, both third-century lovers. Italians. have feast days on feb. 14 
Vakntine is as much a mixturt· of hut link dse is known about them. 
myth, religion and tradition as Easter According to the Bihliotheca. one 
bunnies or St. Nicholas, who some-was said to he a priest in Rome who 
how through time ht·came a jolly was condemned to death by the Em-
red-suited Santa Claus. peror Cladius the Goth. He was he-
And. as with any good kgend. headt·d and originally was believed tht-re is much confusion. buried on Via flaminia. A church 
"The first thing I have to tdl you is was later built on the site outside that no one has any idea of why Rome. Thee t ncyclopedia adds that people adopted him as the patron this person probably never existed. saint for lovns," said Monsignor Supposedly the confusion arose be-Giuseppe D'Ascola of the Vatican's cause ofa mistranslation involving Congregation for the Cause ofSaints. that church, which was built by a "We get the same question every man named Valentine. Still, it said, a year." cult venerating Vakntine arose and 
...but the chureh does not con· spread widely and is still recognized sider him as tht· patron saint for by the church. lovers. I suspect it is an invention of The other Italian Valentine also some chocolate company." was beheaded, on a street called Via 
In fact, St. Valentine is listed third flaminia, either in Rome or in Terni, on the liturgical calendar ofsaints 60 miles cast of Rome. He was for Feb. 14, behind St. Cirillo and St. believed to have been a bishop and Methodio. was buried under the basilica that _ Asked who St Yalcorinc· was bears his name jn Terni He: probablf "An expression oflove." 
Brother Benedict 
"I don't get vakntines. Charlie Brown and I have a lot in common." 
Rob McMonagle '85 
"An endkss pitcher of Mar­garitas." Theresa Mullins '84 
"Two glasses, a bottle of cham­pagne on ice, and the back seat ofmy car." 
Wes Gainey '84 
"That's what I've been trying to think of for the past week. I don't know." 
Kate Herbert '86 
Maybe to have a couple of hours together, to talk about personal things, or about all human problems, and projects you could do. I don't hdieve you should buy anything. Usually you don't get what the peron likes, anyway." 
Alexsis Rubulis, Professor, Modern and Classical Languages 
"I would like a ski trip so I don't have to do any of this kind of stuff (studying)." 
Mike Chmell '85 
"To be serenaded." Cathy David '85 
"A trip to Pego-Pego. No, a million dollars." Marga Villanon '86 
"A black and gold RX7 without the ring." john Adams '84 
"She's about this tall ..." 
Andy Shafer '84 
"A card from my mother which is what I got and all I wanted." john Ginty '87 
actually existed. There was also a Pope Valentine -for 40 days in 827. Butt he was not canonized. 
So what does all this have to do with lovers? No one is really sure. 
Some historians think the feast day, like many Christian ceremonies, was adopted from an­cient Roman traditions. Iflhis is true, it could have been derived from Lupcrcalia, a Roman festival held around the same time as St. Valentine's Day in honor offertility. The festival ofjuno Februata, provides another possible source. This was the feast when lots were drawn for lovers. Still other his­torians propose that it stems from a medieval helidthat Feb. 14 was the beginning ofthe mating season for birds, and thus a particularly suitable festival day for lovers. 
The lack ofa conscnus on the ex­act origin ofthe holiday does not seem to inhibit many people from participating in the traditional sen­ding ofassorted expressions oflove, which incidentally began some time in the Middle Ages. It merely adds to the mystique ofthe day 
"Christie Brinkley with a bul­lwhip." Brian Callaghan '84 
"A kiss and a hug." Lyndy Webster '85 
"A person giving of themselves without anything material." 
Father Michael Murphy, Chair­man, Dept. ofEarth Sciences 
My perfect valentine would be to he able to spend time with my loved one ...share a glass ofwine, and ex­cange a simple red rose. And also since it is a feast day, the ability to pray together and ask for continued love throughout the world." 
Pam Fojtik '85 


"Sharing conversation over a cup ofSwisse Mocha by the fireside with Joan Rivers." 
Jamie Cantorna '87 

" ...to go out to lunch with my wife and cap it off with a singing valentine and a rose from the Glee Club." Dr.james McDonald, Director of 
Student Activities 
"That's a tough one. I never get a valentine. I'm like Charlie Brown. I like candy myself. Candy or pizza" 
Andy Tucker '84 
"One black rose." Chris Williams '86 
"A diamond." AI David, Assistant Manager, North Dining Hall 

"A couple dozen roses and a bottle ofAsti in the passenger scat of a brand new little red Ferrari, and of course the handsome man who hands me the keys!" 
Mary Beth Wackowski '85 
"I never care what I get. I just care who it's from." Denise Grether '84 
"A trip to Rio dejaneiro." Matteo Perrucio '84 
"Red lace underwear." jim Boudreau '87 
"Fudge." Kathy Reidy '85 
"A romantic dinner out instead of the dining hall." Alice Groner '87 

"Marrying (a certain cheerleader whose name has been withheld to protect the innocent) and spendihg the rest of my life with her on a deserted island." 
Pat Collins '87 
"A black pearl." Lee Vetter '84 
"A gold chain with 'I love you' on it." Mlltjackson '86 
"Mike." 

jean Mackay '86 
"Dinner for two." 

Eileen Chang '86  
"A  woman  covered with candy  
hearts."  joeDant'87  


Shelly Rust '85  
" ...definitely flowers."  flowers. love jim Slattery '84  
"Candy."  

George Porter '86 
"A flower from someone you care about." Pam Fox '86 
"A kiss." Scott Hardek '86 

"The perfect valentine's surprise would be for (a eertain junior from Zahm whose name has been with­held to protect the innocent) to come knocking on my door!" 
Barbra Spengeman '84 
"I would say the meaning of Valentine's Day is much more than just the commercialization that has come about. It's a pity that we rely on material things to express our love when in fact we should just do it outright." 
Dominic Gabaldon, Fifth Year, Architecture 
"Having dinner cookedrJor me. With wine ofcourse." Jennie Ewart '87 
"Mr. july." Maureen Murphy '87 
1-----------------· 
tne 
"Nothing. don't believe in the holiday." 
Kathy Bonomo '85 

"A dirty phone call." Pat Kelly '85 
" ...to understand why I couldn't attend the SYR to which I was asked." 
Steve Slaughter '86 

"Paulina Porizkova on the beaches ofAruba for a month." Jim Flynn '87 

" ...if my fiance came out and surprised me on Valentine's Day. I would probably die ofa heart attack at seeing him but it would be great nonetheless." 
Jill Keriny '87 

"A dozen red roses from someone I've been friends with for a long time, and I never knew they really appreciated me." 
"Peace, love and tranquility spread throughout the universe ... and a blue Honda" 
Dava Newtnan '86 

______,___________ 
Tuesday, February 14, 1984-page 7 
Sir Obnoxious 
A day for sappy sentintents 
by Marc Ramirez 
features staffwriter 
S
ir Obnoxious has been immensely pleased with the plethora of letters which he has been receiving concerning the day at hand. And Sir Obnoxious is mostproud to proclaim that only one ofthose letters is a Valentine's Day card. 
.Today is the day when a lot ofpeople want to look in their 
mailboxes and see bunchesofred envelopes holdingValentine's Day 
wishes. Today is the day when a lot ofpeople hope to hear a knock 
on their door from someone waiting outside to present them with 
roses. Today is the day when a lot ofpeople smile in anticipation as 
they wait to witness the reactions to the carnations they have sent. 
Poor misguided wretches. 
Why all this nonsense? Why the soupy, sappy sentiments? Why on this one day of the year will people descend to such abysmal depths and allow themselves to be taken in by such childisqbehavior? Why do people get so excited about receiving gifts like flowers (skinny things pulled out of the ground that probably once had slugs and spiders slithering all over them), candy (pounds and pounds of caloric, pimple-effecting poison), and cards (heavier, harder paper folded over with ridiculous rhymes inside and cutesy artwork outside)? 
In the end, Sir Obnoxious is compelled to inquire: Valentine's Day. Why? 
You can tell me why, you say? Tradition, you say? 
Rubbish, Sir Obnoxious rebuts. Tradition is silly, at best. Tradition says you should sit around and eat fat birds at Thanksgiving. Tradi­tion says you should tellyour kids about a fictitious fool, dressed in a suit not even Boy George would wear, who brings them their Christmas presents. And tradition says that weather can be accurate­ly predicted by some raunchy little varmint who comes out ofhis hole on the second of February, and sadly enough, some Pennsyl­vanians make a big deal ofit. Sir Obnoxious is certainly grateful that he lives in Bel Air where winter doesn't do such strange things to people. 
Rubbish, Sir Obnoxious repeats. Rubbish. 
Sure, compare Sir Obnoxious to the Grinch (although he would prefer you did not -the Grinch wimped out), but he has taken this day to try his best to thwart the efforts ofeveryone else. Sir Ob­noxious will admit it -his heart is most likely five sizes too small. 
Yes, my followers, we are outnumbered, but as in many other things, quality precedes quantity, even in the art ofboorishness. Remember first the advice which you have received, and watch and gloat as you observe the fruits ofyour labor. 
And for some ofthose who do not heed my philosophies, the day may hold a few surprises for you. 
the envelope's supposed to be, or is it ...rat blood, maybe? And be careful when you open up those cards --mJuldn't want any cock­roaches falling on your lap, now would you? 
And see that return address at the upper lefthand comer? Did it ever occur to you that Pangborn doesn't have a I Oth floor? Or that Lyons doesn't have a party room? 
What ifthe addressdoes look familiar? Read the message inside the card. Never thought yoursweetie would ask you to do that, now did you? But isn't that his or her handwriting? 
And you who sent cards or candy offto your precious darling ­are you sure the mailman didn't get to them first? Think about it. And how distinctive is your handwriting? 
Candy's a funny thing, isn't it? Can't tell what's inside those choc­dates until you sink your teeth into them, can you? And wouldn't you look silly slicing all your candy before you ate it, huh? 
Usually, my dears, I spend a whole column advising those who will read, on what obnoxious activities to partake in, but this time, the obnoxious deeds have already been done, and they're waiting to be discovered, like billions and billions (as Sir Obnoxious' obnoxious friend, Carl Sagan would say) oftiny time bombs waiting to go off. 
Many ofyou will discover most surprisedly that you are victims of major shafts, and Sir Obnoxious leaves it to you to take it as you will. Scream, rant, rave, throw a fit or two, and curse the day you were born. Or search deep within yourself, filter out the basic evil, and see the beauty ofthe gesture. 
It really is nice. Perspective -that's the key. 
Happy Valentine's Day. 
Dear Sir Obnoxious -Please don't kill me. I'm one ofyour faith­ful readers, and you've really helped me out a lot. I've always wanted to be obnoxious, eversince Ifound out how much fun it was to blow my nose on my shirt sleeve in expensive restaurants I've made a lot ofprogress over the years, but my insights were never so much ex­panded as when Istarted reading your columns. Now I mix milk and grape drink when I eat at the dining hall, and I was totally in favor of the Liberty Bowl. But anyway, I just wanted to say that I hope you have a Happy Valentine's Day. I hope you're not upset. 
Signed, A FaithfulReader. 

DearFaithful -Well, Sir Obnoxiouscertainly must thank you for all the compliments. It is truly gratifying to know that at least one reader has been helped by the advice which Sir Obnoxious pours out week'afterweek. AHappy Valentine's Day to you, too. Eat, drink and be merry. 
P.S. Henchmen are on their way. Sir Obnoxious hopes you saw the sun rise this morning. 
Feeling too correct? Sendyour inquiries on better ways to boorishness in red orgreen ink on the back ofan oldhomework as-
Watch those red envelop~~ in your ~ilbo~s -is that the color--·---~~gnme".!.!;!_~:!bnoxi~.:!!_-~~:.:!_~e-o!_th~s:!_e;:'SP::!!._~---______ 


Getting into the spirit ofthings 
The University Copy Center and library circulation desk are only two areas on campus which were decorated in celebration ofValentine's Day. 
Tuesday, February 14, 1984 c-page 8
The 0 bserver 


There are tnanycareers undertheRedUtnbrella. Butnonetnore itnportant thanyours. 
Today's graduates are one ofthe most important resources we depend on at The Travelers. In fact, talented, fore­sighted people like you have developed and delivered new products and services 
for 118 years. We've come a long way 
~nd ~ur ~uture is limited only by your 
Imagination. 
As one ofthe country's leading diver­sified fmancial organizations, The Travelers has something special for you. Under our umbrella, you'll fmd rewarding careers in actuarial science, data processing, fmance 
and accounting, engineering, marketing, 
and underwriting, to name a few. And you'll find the right environ­
ment to put your ideas to work. Our list of 
firsts clearly demonstrates that we've never been afraid to take the lead. We've been responsible for a score of 
. . .
maJor Innovations, including the first personal accident policy in An1erica, the first automo­bile policy, and the first policy to cover astronavts during space travel. And t,9day our people ite changing the way insurance business is conducted through one ofthe industry's most advanced data processing systems. 
Make The Travelers your first career choice. You mav never makl~ another. Write to: Rubir~ Fisher, Assist.1nt Direct.Jr, 
College and Professional Recruiting, 
Department 31, The Travelers Companies, 
One Tower Square, Hartford,CT 06115. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, February 14, 1984 -page 9 
Tbe Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertisingfrom 9 am. unti14 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floorof Haggar CoUege Center, accepts classitieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classitieds 
must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is 1 0 cents perfive charac­ters per da . 






Classifieds 
NOTICES  Riders wanted to MILWAUKEE. Leave 2/17, return 2/19. Share usual. Call Jeannie at 234-0302.  VOTE DAN MCNAMARA STUDENT SENATOR DISTRJCT3  DALE JETHRO SAUNDERS turns 20 today.He would love to tell you a story about jack and diane or how «>ol he is when he chips but hurry lllfore he passes  Kathleen, Martha, Laura, Susan, and Jeanne, Even il I didn't have the Italian Stallion (gasp!), I'd still have an abun­dance of love with you guys In my life.  KARMA HARVARD HI THERE'S A TIMEBOMB IN MY ROOM THAT EX­PLODED WHILE YOU TOOK ALL THAT DIRTY LAUNDRY ON THE LITTLE  
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­HERS! Surf'a up but our prices aren't. From just $109.00 -spend 7 fun-filled days In sunny Florida. Call for yourself or organize a small group and travel FREEl Great for clubs, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 368-2006, ask for An­nette. TDK SA 90 & MAXELL XL 2 Tapes $2.50 each, Dan Meak1n 277-3306  ................................................................ FOR SALE w;~;·i~k~~:,;;:;;;;;;:~~~-~~i~·;;~i-~'ii~~-~~ the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper ol the U.S. Church. For sub-­scription information and a free sample copy, call Paul at 277-4851.  Melvin -Have a religiously happy Valentines Day! LOST: One of the last edHions of The Wanes of Oliver Goldsmith from the Notre Dame Memorial Library. If you have seen this priceless 18th century book, please contac1 Kathy at x2703. HurryI If I don't get nback soon, I won't graduate! And that won't be the leaatof my troubles ...  out---he's in 618 or call 1103 and say SHOOT DALE HAPPY B-DAY! DEAR BOOM BOOM: When you get caught between the moon and Cincinnati try not to spill so much wine, rt really get's messy. Love you. Your H.T.H. N.D. RUGBY PLAYER, I NEED THE SHIRT OFF YOUR BACK! I need an N.D. rugby shirt-Call Peg 1314 Olivia Newton Steck, future rock and roll  Thanks. All my Jove, Colleen To my BOYFRIEND DUANE HAPPY VALENTINES DAY Thank you tor a won· derful year I Love you, Plain Jane Seductress, Happy Valentine's Day! I don't know what I'd do without friends like you! TOM-SURPRISE! HAPPY VALENTINES DAYII MISS YOU! LOVE, ADELE  ROWBOAT TO CHINA THAT'S OKAY THOUGH BECAUSE TO ONE WHO IS WILLING NO HARM IS DONE SO WHEN YOU COME BACK AS A DISHWASHER I'LL BE SPAGHETTI AT 3AM AND MAYBE THEN I REALLY SEE YOU WHEN I SEE YOU YOU KNOW THAT YOU CAN ALWAYS HAVE A DRINK OF WATER WHEN YOU'RE THIRSTY BET THE AMAZON IN THE MEADOW DOESN'T HAVE TORTS FLASHCARDS OR EVEN KNOW WHO THE LITTLE PRINCE IS BUT THAT'S ALRIGHT I  
ATTENTION NORTHEASTERNERS: INTERESTED IN LIVING DOWN THE N.J. SHORE THIS SUMMER? CALL PAT8762 pete 1s only five years old today ... that is laches of course.  Fofi..sii'Lii ··PioN.EER TURNTABLE AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST OF­FER CALL 8046 For Sale -­New LEATHER JACKET Never used Racing style Handmade Can be used 1n ram or snow Priced to sell fast call Rafael x3248  MIKE(ALIAS LMRM) READY FOR THE ONE AND ONE?-I ALWAYS WIN THE BONUS! HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY' TM COC-Center of Olympic Concerns 139 Cavanaugh Hall Open to the Public  star. pia ys the ACC this month. Keep your feet on the ground when you are rich and famous. Mickey PS Worry, worry. worry kucera: Here it is, Your own personal valentine. Aren't you glad? By the way, did you get any xantippi?!! Marie, Martha, Ellen. Sheila. Annie, Sue. all other siblings, and, iin particular. George-­Here's your valentine, OK?III  TOM -HAPPY VALENTINES DAY I LOVE. YOUR ALARM CLOCK I kissed a BP girl and I got herpes ................................................................ TO TFH: A LONG DISTANCE VALENTINE FROM ARIZONA HOPE YOURS IS FANTASTIC. WISH I COULD BE THERE BUT I'M KEEPING WARM IN  GUESS SINCE NEITHER DO YOU YET JUST JOAN JETT WITH PLASTIC HAIR THAT CHANGES EVERYDAY I S•JPPOSE THERE'S A POINT TO THIS THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH BURNT KERNALS AND SWOLLEN EYES OR SALUTING WITH TWO BRIEFCASES OR A GENERATER IN YOUR HANDS WHICH IS THAT I AP­PRECIATE ALL THE AFOREMEN­ 
'  ATTENTION! THIS MESSAGE IS DIRECTED TO THE FEMALES AT THE HORNY GIRL TABLE AT SOUTH DINING HALL. TIM HAS A HUGE CRUSH ON ALL OF YOU. IF ANY OF YOU HAVE ANY FEELING IN YOUR HEART, TIM WOULD LIKE A KISS. HIS FIRST Full time & Summer jobs lor students specializing In Banking & Marketing. Commlaalon only sales representative calling on banks & presenting our computer service. MMG Corp. Florian L Beles 1-800-582-0429. MONDALE 84 MONDALE 84 MOCK CONVENTION COMMITTEE MTG 7PM LAFORTUNE NEW ORLEANS AM .......................................................... THERE IS A POSITION OPEN FOR THOSE WISHING TO BE CHIEF EN­GINEER OF WSND. SEND YOUR AP­PLICATIONS TO LOUIS FUKA AT X1531 BEFORE MIDNIGHT THURSDAY. 16 FEB. TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE AND MANAGEMENT SKILLS A MUST.  TICKETS NEED MARQUETTE TIX CHRIS 8229 Need many Marquette tix $$call Sue 284­5173 I'll pay you TOP $$ NOW for agreement on up to 5 commencement tix. Earn $$ and help preserve my place in family will. Call Dan in eves at 287-6273 Netll 2 stu . t ic kr the Maquette gane . Call1388 .................... HAVE CASH -NEED MARQUETTE TICKETS CALL MATT x1228 NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Keith 1180 HELPIIII! I need 3 G.A.s for the Marquette Game. Call3211 PLEASE! ·····················-···· MARQUETTE TIX? I need two student tickets to the Marquette game. Please call 1388  Olympics were not worth drinking Can you chew gum and play basketball? DePaul was worse UB40 Tape Cheers-Shots. Why's everything upside down? Too bad there was not more booze but we subbed with the third floor dash and butter shots t where's my id~where·s my clock? Green beret dinner attack. the pack is back. Kevin that telephone cord makes a lousy tie. CORDOBA. Mike. WR, jump on me and I'll Kill you. Sorry about those snowballs Kathy. Dukes of Hazzard hand. Where i• my Macho Nacho? That was too Macho of a Nacho. 12 noon wind chimes. Let's Dance ME. Our mind's set on seeing This night through till day. The Go-Go's 0 ST JUDE does rt again! t asked for an in­ch; he got me a yard. (Can you say 3.885? I knew you could.) Deo gratias. Come on. JU! PINKY. thanks much for friday nrte. I haven't seen such original "bud label" art in a while. We'll do something when you aren't contagious. DOC  Hey Voluptuous. how about an appoint­ment for Friday? I'm addicted to wantonness! Happy V-Dayl Love, Davy· poo Martha, Annie, Julie, Michelle, Andra, and Julia-For making life happy and bearable (especially during final's week!). Love, Steve KATYDJD-THANX FOR BEING YOU. LUV YOU! SHELLS FILM CLUB meeting tonight 7 p.m. CCE library ..2nd floor. NEW MEMBERS WELCOME CAVANAUGHB As I said, Grace wasn't amazing, but we were! Let's let the second tower fall tonight! Pseudo-coach VALENTINES  TUSCON AND LOOKING FORWARD TO MARCH 16. I MISS YOU ALWAYS. LOVE YOU, SUSAN DEAR TFH: LOOKS LIKE YOUR GONNA LOSE MORE THAN JUST YOUR HAIR. HAIHA! SUSAN'S SECRETARY KAO (a.k.a. Campgrounds) You're a BABEl I Love You. Happy Valentines Day CASSIE BOYLE IS A WOMAN GODDESS HAPPY VALENTINES DAY CASSIE DEAR STEPHANIE, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! SEE YOU IN MARCH! YOUR CO-PILOT SEAT WILL BE WAITING FOR YOU PROVIDED THE POLKA DOTS ARE IN ORDER SOMEONE AT DUKE LOVES YOU. DEBBIE YOU. TURNED ME INSIDE OUT AND YOU SHOWED ME WHAT LIFE WAS ABOUT ONLY YOU, THE ONLY ONE THAT STOLE MY HEART AWAY! I LOVE YOUI-JOE BROWNEYES, THANKS FOR THE  TIONED ESPECIALLY IN THE AFTERNOON WHEN I LEAST EXPECT IT EVEN THOUGH SOMETIMES IT TESTS MY GOODSPORTSWOMAN­SHIP I REALLY LIKE YOU DO I LOVE YOU WHAT FLOOR ARE WE ON TODAY ANYWAY I GUESS KINDA BE­CAUSE AFTERALL IT IS SWEETEST DAY AND BESIDES GIRLS JUST WAN­NAHAVE FUN DEAREST ANTHONY. BE MY VALENTINE SWEETHEART' ALL MY LOVE, ELIZABETH Marty-Tell Sharona forget mI can love on­ly you!Forever-DD Dear Dan. Happy Valentine's Day Hon!! Thanks to your persistance we have made rt this far-I am glad I We have grown very close in the last 4 112 months and I hope that we continue to grow together for a long, long time Have a great day sweet­heart! Love, Meghan Prince tLY Dear Annie, HAPPY VALENTINES DAY HONEY!! Love, Connor p.s. Where's the beef?  
BEST TWO YEARS OF MY LIFE.J'LL AL­ 
lost!! 1 8-20 burgundy beaded necklace of great sentimental value lost somewhere between O'Shag and South Dining Hall on tuesday at noon. if found please call Beth at 283-6747 or 283-6745 Lost-Diamond and sapphire ring. Belonged to Grandma. Great sentimental value. II foung please call 284-4437. Reward LOST: BLACK CONCORD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER STRAP, GOLD HANDS AND BLACK FACE. LOST FEB. 1 BETWEEN EMIL REVIEW AND PW. CALL MAGGIE 2964. ca·s:r· iN ALuMNi i<ooiii< cAMERA CALL SMC4302 LOST:TAN DOWN WINTER COAT WITH HOOD AT SENIOR BAR.I NEED ITII IF FOUND,PLEASE CALL ED 277-6295 REWARD Lo·s:.r··;;.............siNcm ROOM KEY. BETWEEN STEPAN CENTER AND ZAHM. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DAVE,NO. 1178  HELP MEl! I need MU TIX Will pay$$$ for them Call 8440 NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX STUDENT OR GA CALLJOHN 671 8 NEED 2 MARQUETTE G.A. 'S CALL RICH 1418 Would LOVE One or two TIX to see IRISH BEAT MARQUETTE. Call DIGGER 8015 1f you can help!!! NEED AT LEAST 6 GAS FOR MAR­QUETTE. CALLCATHYNO. 6773. SAVE A LIFE III My father will KILL me if I don't come up with Marquette tickets for him and his visiting friends. He's VERY popular. but also very wealthy, so money is no problem. Call Jamie at 8704. Thanx. Sis at MU. Need tix to see NO w1n again. Call Kathy 1284. PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. John Libert TonightI  TO THE MOST THOUGHTFUL FRIENDS ANYONE COULD EVER WISH FOR ­THANKS FOR THE MOST WONDERFUL BIRTHDAY I'VE EVER HAD! MUCH LOVE. ANNE. TOM O'LEARY­THE SWEETEST TH T lNG I'VE EVER KNOWN IS LOVING YOU. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. LOVE ALWAYS AND FOREVER. GINNY. Terri I< Happy Birthday! Congratulations, this is your first time. I hope you get rt more often. Marie Rosemary McCrudden, Thanks for the Valentine! Love me Are you a lonely NO man without a Valentine? Then call5460 or come to 330 McCandless in person to give Margaret Calacci a Valentine kiss and wish her a happy birthday. She's sweet 19 and never been ..AAAAAH Margaret! P.S. Ho­ly Cross men preferable STEVE-YOU'RE THE BEST BRO. WE LOVE YOU' SHELLY & KATIE SENIORS! VALENTINES DAY PARTYI ... TUESDAY NIGHT.SENIOR BAR. .. BLOODY MARY SPECIAL!... SKI TRIP! Still room available on ski trip to Boyne Mountain this weekend. All years welcome! Call Emile (3770) or Tricia (8125)! For long you'/1/ive and high you'll climb and smiles you'll give and tears you'll cry And all you touch and all you see  HEY CURIOUS GEORGE, YOU'RE AWSOME Hey Mom! I love you. Tom Last night 1held a 1m1e hand So tender and so swaet; I thought my heart would surely break, So loudly did It best No other hand I held that night Coul .d greater solace bring, Then that sweet hand I held last night; Four Aces, and a King. ..........._ Sullivan: we love you Barb, Since ne#her of us is with whom we'd rather be with, will you be mine, just lor the day? Nick ...and cheer up, damn it! HAPPY VALENTINES DAY, JOEY. I LOVE YOU, MAXI Wanted: One bodybuilding coach wrth 20 inch guns. Only those with a complete set  WAYS BE THERE FOR YOU.HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. LOVE ALWAYS COUNSELOR Man/Mr.Man,(ls that a master-slave relationship?),Are you wearing under­wear?,Parietals? In the men's room??,Band-aid knees.Pumice stones and wash cloths-legal weapons?,! love to watch your mouth move and everything else too! Happy Valentine's Day to the most unaverage "average Joe" around. I hope your day is as special as you are! Love.Neena P.S. Do I know you wet I enough to senlth i fi Dear State Seminarians, You all get a Valentine's Day "thumbs-up" from me! Love-Kathy I LOVE .. YOU CHRISTY, JACK CHRININ'.... SURE DO LOVE VA' CHRISTY!! HYN THERN UTILE PER­SON Christy, Happy Valentines Day and all my love to you. t LOVE YOU CHRISTY, JACK Vivamus, mea CARYN, atque amemus. rumoresque senum sevorium omnes um­us aestimemus assis. Soles occidere et red1re possU1t: nobis cum semel occidit brevis lux, nox est perpetua una dor­mienda. Da mi basia mille. deinde cen­tum. dein mille alltera. dein secunda centum, deinde usque altera mille, deinde centum. dein, cum milia multa fecerimus, conturbabimus ilia, ne sciamus, aut ne quis malus invidere possit, cum tantum sciat esse basiorum. JJB  John Sheehy-Damn your funny! Angela Allyn-For the Valentines that you would be receiving at your New York address today. Love having you here! Love ,Steve Beth-Great dinner and happy valentines day-Thanks also to Marianne. Julie, Mary Beth, and Anne Love Tom. John, and Sam TO THE UNIVERSITY OF 4 NORTH: THANKS FOR MAKING OUR HAPPY HOUR SUCH A THRILLER!!!!! HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! AS ALWAYS, THE WILD WOMEN OF WALSH SAM AND ALICE. HOW MANY STRIKES ARE PLANNED FOR FRI. NIGHT BOWLING? MARCIA, JAN, AND CINDY HEY LUDY. HAVE A HAPPY VD. THANKS FOR ALL THE CHIPS. LOVE VA, POLO-MAN TO PAUL KUCERA; HAPPY VALENTINES DAY, CUZI LOVE, YOUR cuz HEY McCANDLESS 3, HAVE A GREAT VD GUYS, LOVE VA ALL, ROMEO French Pastries. Hey. Ho. Wake up. Love ya. Sucrets. Joseph, It's been preny cold out lately. Let the sun shine warm our hearts. Let's have a won­derful day Shawn  
FOUND: EYEGLASSES: Along Juniper Rd. near C-21ot. Call287-9766 evenings.  Flanner  is all your life will ever be.  of Nautilus machines need apply. Sorry Troll, your days are over. Ms. S.B.  Happy Valentine's Day to the King of Hearts! Love. Snuggles P.S. Wear them  
LOST: TAN, UNIV.-OF-TEXAS PULLOVER WINDBREAKER TIME:  9PM Gym2  Is a Mary's Di·Hard in the dictionary? Amy...l want my shirt back ...Pete.  Only kidding, Troll. Do you think I could let you go? Never happen! Happy Valentine's Day. The Little Bodybuilder  with pride! DANIELLE, MOM AND DAD: Okay. so I'm lousy at writing letters, but I figured I  DEAREST KAREN, I HAD THE BEST TIME THIS WEEKEND! IT WAS FAN­TASTIC SEEING YOU AGAINI HAPPY ANNIVERSARY AND VALENTINES  
10:30, SUN FEB. 12 ... BADIN TV. LOUNGE ACTUALLY, I BELIEVE THIS JACKET WAS STOLEN. PLEASE PROVE ME WRONG AND RETURN MY JACKET A.S.A.P. IT HAS MY NAME IN  EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 THE MAN LOVES THE BUSH  Alnght Ladies and Gentlemen: Now that I have your attention ·HAPPY VDAY JAMES! Hope you get into this personal scene because that's all you're get­ CARRIE HONEY, HAPPY V-DAY AND BUNCHES OF LOVE. I WANTED TO SEND YOU A BUNCH OF ROSES AND HERE THEY ARE: ROSE, ROSE, ROSE.  could at least send you a personal on Valentines Day. Love you all. Keith. To301 B.P. Roses are red  DAY! I LOVE YOU SO MUCH, AND THAT WILL NEVER CHANGE! SEE YOU AT SPRING BREAKI LOVE ALWAYS. JEFF  
IT .... J.J.LIU PH.8330  ATTENTIONIIAND HERE WE GO AGAIN-DO YOU HAVE A PARTY, SYR OR FORMAL THAT YOU NEED THE  ting...no doubt. A nod's as good as a wink to a blind bat.  ROSE, ROSE, RICH  ROSE, ROSE,  ROSE. ROSE.  ROSE, ROSE.  ROSE. LOVE.  VIolets are blue Fr. Happen may not love you Butldo.  Dear MARTHA and MARGARET: Happy Valentines Day DAVE  
LOST: Tl55 It IN CUSHING. PLEASE CALL BILL 1224. FOUND: CALCULATOR in 356 Fitzpatrick Wed. Feb. 8. Can now 1dentify and claim at lost and found. FOR RENT AVAILABLE NOW-Efficiency apartment near Notre Dame on busline. 255-8505.  MUSIC SUPPLIED FOR??? THEN CALL WSND-FOR ONE LOW PRICE YOU TOO CAN HAVE A PROFE~ SJONAL OJ, ENGINEER, AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEIII CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 239-7425 OR 283-1153. THE DATES ARE FILLING UP QUICK SO CALL TODAYIIIIII WSND PARTY REMOTES-THE BEST EQUIPMENT, THE BEST PRODUC­TION AT THE BEST PRICE!Il Cec11 Rucker is a man-god' OMAHA. NE (CREIGTON U.) ANYONE?? Ride or riders needed to  She does indeed. (nudge, nudge) ...................... THE LAWS OF MR GOODWENCH LAW NO. 1 (Looks Law) A girl's looks are directly proportional to her maJor. AL 9 Business 8 Science 6.5EG ln.65 64'o/7cos34 NEED RIDE TO J.U.. LEAVING FRIDAY. WILL PAY USUAL. CALL TONY x1054.. LOST:Pink and green GOOSE w1th tails.  Happy Valentines Day to the best Two Mints In One from her adoring fan club; The Honorable B.L Slavens presiding To Section 3N of Lewis. Hope you have a great Valentine's Day. Love. -your RA Happy Valentine·s Day to the hunklest of all Hunkys, that Accountant that really  Signed, your aporta valentine Dear Mom, Happy Valentine's Love, your son Mike Happy Valentine's Day ME Thanx for lunch! Can we talk? Saturday was a riot!  Day.  1 would like to say Happy Valentine's Day to Deanna McBride. Lori Bernat. and Chris Klem. You guys are the best Jnends I've ever had. Have a great day guys! ..................... Houston Six, How about a trip to the Fiji Islands for Valentine's Day?! I miss you! Love to love you, Angora Sock woman Ted. Undie, Sweets: Happy V-Day' Congrats! Its a big day! Love those beetles. Love, Honey. Barb.  
Need one FEMALE ROOMMATE. Rent $97.50 pe1 month Notre Dame Apts. Call Cathy at 283-6786  Omaha !for the weekend of Feb. 24 -26. Will share usual Call Jeanne at 3484. .... , ...... .. ················· ········· I CAN'T WAIT TO SNAG MY GUMMY BEAR ON VALENTINE'S DAY LOVE YOU YOUR CAB!i3AGE PATCH DOLL  Distinctive red eyes. Last seen Sat night. M.I.A.!I Kelly, Good luck tonight you tw-t. We didn't wear buttons tor nothing Love Dick and Paully and the rest of 11 b  knows how to make his cash flow, yes Alex Szllvas. today is your day. Love, All th11 girls from B.P., P.E.. M.E., and Botswanna  BAM BAM, How cotJd I let th1s day pass without giv~ng my best WIShes for the greatest Valentine anyone could ever have· someday (I hope) TIAMO-Me  Steve Happy Valentines Day from the one who loves you JUSt the way you are. You mean more to me than words could ever express. Love, Eileen  
one bdrm.den,bath and kitchn-1Omin to NO (rest offer) 232-71 73  tnt~r~~i;;;;;-ai ·1,~~~~~ .is:o iuoi~g. sleddmg and winier games Place Bendix Woods Park Date:Sat 2/18 Time:6.30pm  M/o~~~-s~,i;. ~~pe all goes well at the shop today. I'll be thinking aboul you. And remember. I'm always ready for some  · Mary2. Jamce. Eli Queen. Carol and --~y: Happy Valentine's Dayl And you thOiight \IOU 'YIOU1dri1 get anything 61'1  HO and CHO, Happy V-D to my wonder­ful roommates! Lo~e. TO  Happy Valentine's Day, Mike! You're the best brother in the world. But you're still too honest to be a politician. Love. Bridget  

If you want to come. sign up at the J.S.O. bowling with you-No other butcher will do. Valentine·s Day. Love. Mary HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY MINES! 
Tod, · Happy Valentine's Day!" Atthoughlounge. Mon thru Thurs 8P"!::19P'!b'1· ,v--' ~ H~l!rJtlt\<lntine:s, Day, luv. Alice (and LOVE, ABH 
we are miles apart, we'll always be close 
Carol and Mary, you always said you 

at heart. Only · 48" days lef1-"GE"
WANTED 0~~~-McG~nig·l~··c~~~~t~'"t~·Qof~ ~;t"'"'"'1~~id~..'"\••._,..' l wanted a dozen roses for Valentine's 
Weekend, Here we come!! Love, Kathy
intellectual WARD Day, so here it goes: ROSE, ROSE, Kevin--Happy Valentine's Day! I love you 
P.S. If you know what I mean.. and I think 
JANET. "BE HAPPY AND SMILE" HAVE ROSE. ROSE. ROSE, ROSE. ROSE. more than ever! Remember-­
you do!! 
RIDE NEEDED TO IU FROM 1/17 TO HUN. LOVE YOU A BUSHEL AND A VERY HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! ROSE. ROSE. ROSE, ROSE, ROSE KTF!!Forever, J. 1119. CALL PAT AT 3625 MORE THAN A PECK! HAPPY THANKYOUFORALL THATYOUHAVE Maybe next year they'll be red. Guess VALENTINES DAY! HEN DONE FOR ME. LOVE. JOHN Who. 'CG',..more than you know .. Beth Ann see CLASSIFIEDS, page 10 
Tuesday, February 14, 1984 -page 1 0 
Sports Briefs 
Marian wins 
Belles play like winners but lose 
The Notre Dame-Detroit women's basketball game tonight has been designated as "Dorm Night" by the athletic department. The dorm which has the greatest turnout (by percent­age ofstudents in the dorm) will be awarded $100.00 worth ofGod­father's Pizza for a dorm pizza party. If you want to see more information, ask your R.A. who should have received a flyer in the: mail. -The Obseroer 
The NVA downhill skiing trip scheduled for 
tonight has been postponed until next Tuesday. If you have any questions, call 2 39-6100. -The Obseroer 
Eddie White. assistant sports information director at Notrt: Dame, will be the featured guest tonight on "Speaking of Sports" at 10 p.m. on WSNO-AM64. Listeners can voice their ques­tions or comments by calling at 259-6400. -The Obseroer 
The ND Rowing club will hold a general meeting tomorrow at 10 p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theater. All old and interested new members arc: required to attend. Dues will be col­lected, and information on the trip to Austin, Tx. over break will be discussed. Ifyou can not make the meeting, callJoe at 8198 or).T. at 
1414. -The Obsen.•er 

An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for February 2H. Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to DennisStark the day before the meet or the interhall office, C2, ACC. For more: information on the 10 event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Observer 
Two members of the Squash club com­
peted in the Sixth Annual Purdue Squash Open over the weekend. Chaitanya Panchal emerged the winner of the C Division. Sean P. Richardson won the consolation bracket of the D Division. -The Obseroer 
Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Emeritus Dave Dziedzic and An Tostal Chairman Dave Jakopin announce the recent sc:lection of sophomore Jeff Blumb as commissioner for Bookstore Basketball XIII. Blumb is now beginning to assemble a staff for the: popular tournament. -The Obsen1er 
Classifieds 
continuedfrom page 9 
Happy Valenhnes Day to the w1ldest women of P W Mary. Elena. linda Joan. Kelly. Kathleen. Kelly. Jul1e. Debb1e, Dolores,and the rest of the ssecond lloor Love, SKID ROW' 
I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THIS TIME TO SAY HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO A COUPLE OF SPIFFY GIRLS. TIM. DAVE. SCHWEEN. AND I WISH MARIS· SA AND AMY A GOOD ONE 
Happy Valentine ·s Day to: 
Amy. Andrea. Angela. Anne. Beth. Carol C, Carol G. Carole. Debb1e, Dot. Elaine, Gretchen. Jane. Kathy, K1ernan. K1m. Laura. Margaret. Mary Allee. Mary H. MaryS. Maureen. Meg. Melinda, Melissa. Pam, Pany. Shawn. Stephame. Sue C. Sue R. Tess. and Wanda. 
To all 4th year ARKIE men. the only group we know who can keep 1t up ALL mght· HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYIIII LOVE. B CDXOXOXOXO 
AL Thanks for a wonderful lime last Fnday I w111 do 11 aga1n anytimeIll And I loved the yellow car It's the best!' Mary 
CATHERINE Take me at your own pace 000, Chas P S There·s a pop tart walling m1dmte at the Nazzl 
Happy V D to those steamy, sexy sooal1tes 1n 223 Lyons. Port1a. Meg. and Sue. L011e ya. Cup1d 
Skels, Cnme. I admit. was a harsh word But the 1mportant1dea to which I referred was the fact that the 19th of Feb. was okay As a year marker of that special day Wh1ch started a year of lots of fun Alleastllhink so. and I'm not qu•te done Another year I think I could last If we rema1n the same as we have in the past Detroit, Billy Joel & Chicago too Made me th1nk to say what you already knew And now· thanks" IS what I want to say For your pat1ence w1lh me on all those days like today When everything would go JUSt nghl And then I'd fall•nto that deep sleep the rest of the mght AI any rate have a great VD And I hope you'll never put the 'clampers· on me 
Swell Ludy -Be our Valentlnef Morgan, Moogle Brain, Chrlsment & the "normal" one(?) 
SGF, Centric relation & Protrusive mum't Ideal. Prognoala excellent lor future hllrmonlous occlusion. Rx: crmtr rnx & take gina prn. ILY 
To PAT LORCH-Your secret admirer from S.D. thinks you're great. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, Mr. PersonaiHyl-? 
M 8 . Omedetogoza1masu. Chrngami Kokan to Meiti Kurabu. 
MAUREEN CANAVAN. I LUST AFTER YOU, BABY! COME TO MY ROOM AND QUENCH THE FIRES OF MY DESIRES. LOVE, YOUR VIRILE VALENTINE!! P.S. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 
To the best sect1on at NO· 2A P.W.I hope all your Valentine Dreams come true. I love you guys! Happy Valentine's Day ­Kathy (K the RA) 
HAPPY V·DAY to Sk1rtman.Dr.ldiot.the Carpet Inspector and all the rest · From someone you mrght know from some­where. 
To Ann Clark, From the one who loves you, Happy Valentines Day!!! 
Dear TDH, rl's tnte but true: You are the Sunsh1ne of my life!! HAPPY VALENTINE'S All my love· TB 
Happy Valentine's Day to... Henry S. ­we'll have to d1scuss our Cll connectiOn" somet1me Mark W. -I'll work for you anytrmei ... Andy T. -congrats on Vander­bllt... Ray W. thanks for your con­cern... Rick S. -you sr/11 owe Stacey & me a visrt.. Kev1n McK. · thanks for all your help w1th Econ... Dave A. -I'll party w1th you anytime!l!...and to all NO males ... there are lots of mce girls (like me) on this campus-give us a chance. CRC 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY KATHY! 
LOVE, KEN 
HFPJ I LOVE YOU! FOOFOO 
DELTA NU'S WE'LL BE GOING OUT IN A COUPLE OF WEEKS" AND SCOTI WILL BEAT THE ODDS 
By DAVE WILSON 

Sports Writer 
For those who have given up on 
this year's Saint Mary's basketball 
team -have patience. 
Although the Belles dropped a 58­
50 decision to the Knights ofMarian 

College Saturday afternoon, they 
looked like anyone but the losing 
team. Down by as many as ten points 
late in the game, Saint Mary's fought 
back constantly, closing the gap to as 
few as three. In fact, the Knights 
were: not assured ofvictory until the 
final minutes. 
"I was just very pleased with our 

effort," said head coach Mike Rouse. "We may have lost the game. but we didn't lose our determination to remain in the game. The girls · handled themselves well, particula r­ly against a team as good as Marian." 
The Knights came into the contest 

with impressive credentials. Their 
previous win was a ten-point tri­
umph over Valparaiso, a Division I 
team. However, the Belles would 
not allow an easy victory. Saint 
Mary's jumped out to a 5-0 lead on a 
basket by Betsy Ebert and a three­
point play by Kris Pantelleria. 
Playing agressively, and taking ad­

vantage ofa slow start by Marian, the 
Belles maintained the lead for the: 
first ten minutes, until the: Knights 
closed the gap and took the lead 19­
17. The tempo was reduced for the remainder of the half. as Saint Mary's added just five points to its total, while Marian added nine, taking a 28-20 halftime lead. 
"Usually our turnovers allow the other team to pull away", Rouse said. "But this time we were able to keep the ball in control for the most part, and take advantage of their tur­novers instead." 
Marian extended its lead to ten early in the second half, but the Belles refused to let the margin grow any larger. The teams traded baskets, until Saint Mary's took advantage ofa jump ball violation, as Ebert scored to pull the Belles within two at 46­44. 
The home team brought the game right down to the wire, until 

Fencers 
continuedfrom page 12 
was shut out 0-3. 
"Our foil and sabre: squads won against theirs (Wayne State's), but just barely," said St. Clair. "Our epee team had a hard time though." 
"They're very talented but not un­beatable. We've got some good quality fencers and it's just -they won that day. It'll be tough to beat them (in the NCAA tournament) but it's possible." 
On Saturday, the Notre Dame women also fenced at the ACC. The Irish, under the guidance of Coach Mike DeCicco went 2-2 changing desperation fouling allowed the Knights to pull away to victory. 
"I've said this before, but we really need a win these days," said Rouse. "I'm glad the girls are keeping their heads in the game, but lately that's been tough." 

In the scoring department, Ebert and Teresa McGinnis led the Belles with ten points apiece, while Elaine Suess and Pantelleria added nine. Cyndy Short had seven, and Mary McQuillan added five. 
The Belles travel to Valparaiso tilr a game tonight, returning to face Aquinas College Friday night in An­gela Athletic Facility. 
their record to I 1-4 on the season. 

The lady Irish downed Detroit 1.~­3, and Case: Western Reserve 16·0, but lost to a tough Ohio State team 13-3. and last year's runner-up in the: NCAA tournament, Wayne State 9-7. Freshman Pia Albertson, one: of the best fencers in the countzy, was undefeated over the: wec:kenq going 12-0 to increase her record tb 31-2 or the year. Senior co-captain Sharon Di Nicola went 5-3 to boost her record to 21-14 and sophomore: Janet Sullivan went 3-3 to move to a 
17-10 mark. 
The men's and women's teams 

will be on the road again on Satur­
day, Febraury 25, when they will 
travel to Illinois where they face two 
Big Ten opponents Illinois and Wis­
consin. 
Howtohave classbetweenclasses. 

Indulge yourself in a warm of Cafe Vienna. It's a light and cin­namony touch of class. And just one of six deliciously different flavors fromGeneralFoods® ~~~~~~ International Coffees. fiiil~liiiiiJ...Jiiiii~ 
GENERAL FOODS'1~MERNATIONAL COFFEES ,....(-..,..---. AS MUCH A FEELING AS A FLAVOR 
M...,
·un•r 
QIUIIfRAl FOODS 

rC> General Foods Corooration 1983 
·, -,•.·.-.. -·-,--. . ~-·.. -.....:, .. ~... "' .. '\, ·._ '. ·. •., •. ') 
T0 day___________________._.._r_u_e_sd_a..;y_,_F_e_b_ru_a_r._y_I_4_,_1_9_8_4__p_a_g_e_1_1 

Mellish 



Good news I There's a science-fiction novel called "1985" on Its way just IS soon as Melvin Foster tightens up 1 few chapters. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 32 Effortless-63 Walk 10 Nuptial 1 Green stone ness 64 Forearm words 5 Gush bone 11 Certain
33 Polynesian

9 Bishop's scene
35 More 65 Ruminant
headdress 12 Oval
melancholy 66 Mixes and
14 Hero 13 More frail 
36 Din of matches
15 Director 

iniquity? 67 Sign of 
Kazan 39 Mink sorrow 18 Roger

16 Allan·­

relative 68 Consumes 22 Author's(Robin Hood 
42 Pedal arch drafts: abbr. 
man) 

44 Cavort 25 Expensively17 Den of 45 Vicinities DOWNiniquity? 
47 Dustcloth Moslem
19 Exalted 29 About com­
49 Sick holy war 
20 Noah's munities:
50 --Magnon 2 Worshiper
vessel 

51 Old Eng. abbr. 
21 Respects 3 Beasts of 30 Acorn's
courts

23 Restraint burden
53 Muffin

24 Feats 4 Moose parent
54 Porridge

26 Employ 5 Filming 31 Little 27 Spire 58 Song locations Orphan-ornament syllable 6 Cabal 32 Detective 
59 Pointed 7 One: Ger. Queen 28 Breadtype arch 8 Cometo 34 Stooge name 29 Daytime 61 Don of 9 Parson's 35 Sandwich 
dramas iniquity? house letters 
• ' • ' ·'....

e...t:o , ,JLrcJ~ 
•s LIIIUt 


,JIV lcreWJOU-~aam_lleaqv.uten ~ Jt# 
-;:~ c;_ II 
:;7. ~ •• 

Berke Breathed 




37 Genetic letters 38 Hush·hush org. 39 Cooler 
heads 40 Musically speedy 
41 More like Hawaiian weather 
43 Ancient Asian country 45 Parseghian 46 Bad liquor 48 Ruler 50 Students 51 Guidonian 
note 52 Orange-red 
stones 55 Burrower 56 Ferber 57 At a dis· 
tance 60 Tub 62 Article 

Monday's Solution 
HALE~AGATTIE  HASP  
Ill" M E N  8 EfSTO M  A R II: A  
Rill" A D.TRAfSH•R SA  T I 10 NRALE  

I-CAT ~p~~~ND
L EM N S ,u U I D I N E T A P E H 0 
LA NIG UIA E B A RIR I E R AM E. N 0 R M~-EILIAILI ••• pIN EfS"D.N
D L E

•rr Ill" Rrs E T. D E B T fAERIE-FACE Y B A R E X AM I N A ENt-S" 
I R IIS•G 0 R E D R A£J EAST.OBEISE APEJi 
2114/84 


~I 
ROllrl: 11:30-8:30 

I Stay On C..Jlll Ud la~t $$$ byle1i1iin& US ~ DialM-U-11-8 (6887) 'lkl care of J01lr Oower nttds ~ 
~~,~~ ( ::§5.6~ tt= ==% A .~ ~~ • ;[ ~ 

Campus 
I . 

•12:10 
p.m. -Art Noontalk, "The Veracruz Split Figure: Duality in Precolumbian Art," Douglas E. Bradley, Annen berg Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "A Study of the Growth, Interactions, and Control of Microorganisms in CSTR," Mr. Charles F Goochee, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to Apple lie, 115 CCMB 

•5:
15 p.m. -Stretchercise, for older adults, ACC Gym4 

•6:15 
p.m.-Meeting ofthe Support Group for Graduate Student, Wilson Comm~ns 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "You Are There: Dec. 7, 1941," "Harvest of Shame," and "This is Edward R. Mur­row," O'Shaughnesy Hall Loft 

•7 
p.m. -Basketball, SMC vs Valparaiso, Angela Athletic Facility 

•7 
p.m. -Film Club Meeting, CCE Library 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation , Cargill Inc., for seniors, 123 NSH 

•7 
p.m. -Ground Zero Meeting, LaFortune Ball­room 

•
7 p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Mondale '84 Mock Convention Organizational, LaFonune New Orleans room 

•7 
p.m.-Dance Class, Jazz Dance, Angela Allyn, Chautauqua Ballroom, Sponsored by Abiogenesis, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Story and the Word: EarlyJewish Allegory," Prof Naomi Janowitz, Cen­ter for Social Concerns, Sponsored by ND Women in Theology, 

•7:30 
p.m.-Wrestling, ND vs Illinois State, ACC 


. •7:30 p.m.-Basketball, NO Women vs Detroit, ACC 
•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting ofthe FacultySenate, 202 CCE 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Stabilization with Equity: The Nicaraguan Macroeconomics Experience, 1979­1983," Prof. E.V.K. Fitzgerald, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Paddy Noonan, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 55 

•8:30 
p.m. -Modern Dance Class, Angela Allyn, Chautauqua, Sponsored by Abiogenesis, Free 

•9 
p.m. -Mass, Eucharistic Liturgy for Peace and Justice, Rev. James Grummer, SJ, Saint Mary's Club­house 



©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
"AN IRISH EVENING" with Comedian Hal Roach and The Paddy Noonan Band has, regrettably been cancelled. Tickets will be refunded at The Student Union Record Store 
r---------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
canno WID meet for Irish swimmers 
The Notre Dame track team bad a disappoint­ing u•eekend at Purdue. The Irish finished third out of ten teams. Purdue came in first while In-
The Observer/Paul Citarelli 

diana, expected to win the meet, came in second. For more details, see]e17J• Melia's story below. 
Women's giant slalom 



America wins first gold medal 
ByJOHN MOSSMAN 
Associated Press 
"Now America's got it." 
Debbie Armstrong won her gold medal, the first for the U.S. Team at the Winter Olympics, with a tough, twisting tour down the side of a mountain on yesterday. 
"America has been waiting for this," someone shouted to the beaming Armstrong at the finish line immediately after her victory became apparent. "Now America's got it," Armstrong fired back. 
After days of poor hockey, weather delays for events in which the American team was expected to do well, and poorer than expected performances by some team mem­bers, Armstrong and the other mem­bers of the giant slalom team came through in record smashingfashion. 
Her gold medal was the first for an Amt.-rican woman in 32 years in the giant slalom and the first in any Alpine t·vent at the Winter Games since 1972. She led a 1-2-4 placing that was the best ever for the lJ.S. in any Olympic Alpine even, outducll­ing vetern Christin Cooper, who won the silver. 
Armstrong, 20, of Seattle, Wash., was an unlikely hero. Arelative new­comer to international competition, her best finish in World Cup com­
petition  was  a  third  earlier  this  
season.  Cindy  Nelson,  the  ack­ 
nowledged  leader  of  the  U.S.  

women's team, has predicted that Armstrong would be the star of the 
U.S. team within a year or two, but Armstrong is now ahead of that schedule. 
Cooper was the leader after the first run, holding a slim one-tenth of a second lead over Armstrong. Two of the favorites, American Tamara McKinney and Switzerland's Erika Hess, had virtually skied themselves out of the medal picture. McKinney was eighth after the first run, and Hess was I I th. 
McKinney clocked the best time on the second run, a I: I I.72, but it wasn't enough to get t her a medal. Perrine Pclen of France claimed the giant slalom bronze medal for the second straight Olympics, and McKinney was in fourth place. 

Wayne State snaps Irish winning streak 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's fencing team took its 19-mect winning streak into weekend action at the ACC and came away with 3 wins and their first loss since last year making their record to I 5-I on the season. 
In Saturday morning and after­noon action, the Irish had an easy time downing Detroit 21-6, Case Western Reserve 25-2, and Ohio State 22-5. Their winning streak ended at 22 in early evening action as they were bt·aten by defending national champions, Wayne State 
15-12. 
lbe foil squad boosted its overall record to I 12-39 as it was 28-8 on Saturday (5-4 against Wayne State). Impressive for the Irish were fresh­man Charles Higgs-Coulthard 7-2 (39-3 on the season), sophomore Mike VanderVelden 7-3 (27-6), sophomore Dave Reuter 3-0 ( 16-8), and senior captain Chris Grady 8-1 (20-9). 
Higgs-Coulthard, Notre: Dame's leading fencer, and Grady were 2-1 against Wane State while VanderVel­den went 1-2. 
In the sabre, junior captain Mike Janis boosted his record to 30-3 with a 4-2 performance for the day. John Edwards had his unbeaten streak ended at 25 straight when he lost one of three bouts to Wayne State to go 7-1 on the day (27-1 for the season). Sophomore Don Johnson's 8-1 mark, sophomore Tony Consoli 5-0 mark, and freshman Kevin Stoutermine's 3-1 helped the foilers better their record to a team leading 
130-21. 
The sabre team was also 5-4 against Wayne State as Edwards and Johnson went 2-1 and janis was 1-2. 
The epee squad, led by senior cap­tain Andy Quaroni improved its record to 115-36 but was trounced by Wayne State 7-2. 
Quaroni (25-3 on the season) and sophomore Brian St. Clair (24-7) each went 1-2 against Wayne State while freshman John Haugh (20-7) 
see FENCERS, page 10 

recovered, but the mistake cQst her precious seconds. Armstrong's second run was clocked in I minute, 
12.0I seconds; Cooper came in at 
I: 12.51, a half-second slower. 
Hess wound up seventh. Nelson, recuperating from a knee injury, was 18th. West Germany's Irene Epple, silver medalist at the 1980 Olym­pics, couldn't overcome a recent knee injury and finished 21st. 
Armstrong's combined time for two runs was 2:20.98. Cooper finished at 2:21.38, Pelen at 2:21.40 and McKinney at 2:21.83. 
"I just had fun, that was the dif­ference, I think," said the 5-foot-5, 137-pound Armtrong. "I saw the course yesterday, and I knew it was a good hill for me. 
"From the minute I got up this morning I felt good I knew if I kept my head together and skied positive, I had a chance to win a medal. 
"I made a couple ofmistakes, but I gave it my best shot. Those were the two rwns ofmy life. All the way down I thought this was my only chance, and I better do it now, so no holding back." It was the United States' first gold medal in Olympic Alpine skiing since Barbara Co~hran won the slalom in 1972. It was the first gold for an American in the giant slalom since 1952, when Andrea Mead­lawrence won at Oslo, Norway. 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
In one of the most exciting dual 
meets ofthe season, the Notre Dame 
men's swim team narrowly lost a 
tough meet to Saint Bonaventure 
University, 67-46, this weekend in 
the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
Although the Irish missed many 
first place finishes by only tenths ofa 
second in Saturday's meet, many swimmers earned their best times of . the season. "It's too bad we had to lose the way we swam, but the team showed a lot of guts," said Irish co­
captain Dan Flynn. 
Victory was not impossible for the 
Irish on Saturday until the closing 
events. In the 200 yard breast stroke 
race, Saint Bonaventure claimed 
both first and second place and later 
defeated Notre Dame in the 400 
yard frestyle medley. 
"They get tougher and tougher 
every year," explained Flynn. "But 
we gave them a good meet." 
Notre Dame head coach Dennis 
Stark was not troubled by the loss 
since most team members improved 
their times. 
"We knew they'd he tough going 
in," said Stark. "We had a lot ofgood 
times, but the other team was 
stronger." 
The team was looking forward to 
swimming against Saint 
Bonaventure and Saturday's meet 
sparked enthusiasm on the team. To 
help build spirit for the meet, the 
Irish wore their green suits. "In the 
four years I've been here, I've never 
seen the team so fired up before a meet," said Harding. 
The meet against Saint Bonaventure generated confidence on the team and swimmers did not choke during key events. "Saint Bonaventure (the meet) gave us confidence by people pulling through for us when we needed them," explained Flynn. 
Junior diver Rich Yohon demonstrated improvement thi~ weekend and earned second plan·s in hoth the one and thrn· meter diving events. The fan who shouted "Rich Yohon for Notrl· Dame swim team MVP," accurately reflected Yohon's role in the ml·et. 
"lie knl"W he had to get seconds for us to stay in the meet and he came through for us," said Harding. 
For the past four years. Saint Bonaventure has offered scholar­ships to their swimmers which ha.' dramatically improved their program. Saturday's meet wao; the first time Saint Bonaventure defeated the Irish in competition. 
In action last week, the Irish 

defeated Wayne State University, 60­47, giving the team a 7-3 season record. Notre Dame overpowered the small Wayne State squad from the beginning of the meet and swam exhibition races for most of the second half. 
On Wednesday, Notre Dame will travel to the University of Evansville to participate in the Midwestern City Conference Meet. The Irish are •. reluctant to predict the outcome of the meet since this is the first year the team has competed in the event. 
Track team stumbles and,falls over weekend 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
There are mixed emotions by Notre Dame's coaching staff concerning last weekend's Indiana Intercollegiate Track Meet at Purdue University. Both Head CoachJoe Piane and Assistant Coach Ed Kelly had high hopes going into the meet because of the Irish's fine performance in the Midwestern City Conference Championships last weekend at the ACC. 
"Indiana was a strong favorite to win the meet," said Kelly. "We thought we' woulld give Purdue a strong run for second." 
Kelly showed disappointment 
Women play host to Detroit in contest tonight in ACC 
The Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team will try to pick up where it left off on Saturday as it plays host to North Star Con­ference opponent Detroit tonight at 7:30 in the ACC. 
After gaining an important 85­79 win over Villanova Saturday, Mary DiStanislao's Irish appear to have shaken the slump that has bothered them since early in the year. The Detroit game should provide a good indication of whether the team has indeed turned things around. If Notre Dame is able to play like it did against Villanova, it could be a miserable night for Detroit. 
However, first-year coach Dewayne Jones has put together a much improved team this year. The Lady Titans, after finishing 7­20 last year, now stand at an even 10-10. One of the major reasons for the improvement is freshman forward Cassandra Pack. The 5­11 Pack leads the Titans in scoring with a 17.3 average. Her 

8.8 rebounds per game also places her second in that category. 
Pack gers some help from 5-6 junior guard Regina Pierce, who has been contributing better than 16 points a game, and 6-0 center Lori Tennant, who leads the team in rebounding with an 
8.9 average. Pat Nealy, a 5-6 guard, and Bridget Howard, a 5­10 forward, fill out the Detroit lineup. 
Tonight's game marks the next-to-last home game for the Irish, who bring a 9-12 record in­to the game. The final home game will be February 25 against Xavier. 
with the performance of the sprin­ters. He also felt the team should have done better as a whole. He doesn't feel that the team has reached the level that they are capable of, but he strongly believes that it will come in time. 
As it turned out, the Irish finished third in the meet. Purdue captured the title with a total of 169 points, Indiana placed second with 129, and the Irish finished in third out of the ten teams participating in the meet with I 07 points. 
Although from Kelly's point of view the team should have per­formed better, he did praise perfor­mances of two Notre Dame athletes in particular. 
"Alvin Miller continues to im· prove and show what type ofathlete he really is," Kelly said. "James Pat­terson is the most consistent athlete on the team." Patterson won two events over the weekend. 
Miller had an excellent showing in the high hurdles, but placed one­hundredth of a second behind the winner with a time of7.33. 
Andy Dillon ran second in the mile-run timing a 4:12.56. Dan Shan­non finished third in the 440-yard dash and fourth in the 300-yard dash. Piane and Kelly also got strong efforts from Jim Moyar in the 1000­yard run and Ralph Caron in the two­mile run. 
As Kelly cited previously, Patterson won both the long jump and triple jump events for the Irish. 
The Notre Dame track team has another important meet this weekend at Eastern Michigan. The meet is the Central Collegiate Con­ference Championships where twenty-five teams will be compet­ing. 




