
Faculty-Course evaluations -page 4 

VOL XIX, NO. 56 thl' indqwndl'llt ~tlllkllt lll'\\~P•'Iwr ~l'n ing notn danll' ;llld ~ainl man·~ WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1984 

Karen joseph served these students atSaturday  ded  ate  ethnic foods  and then  danced  in  the  
night's international students' dinner and dance  Chautauqua Ballroom.  
In the LaFortune Student Center. Those who allen.  


Oxfam Fast for a World Harvest to draw almost 1 ,000 participants 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER The fast day began at 7:45 this Oxfam America Is a non-profit, in­News Staff morning with morning prayer in the ternational agency that funds self­commons area outside the Cushwa­help development projects and Nearly 1,000 Saim Mary's stu­Leighton Ubrary. disaster relief in poor countries in dems, faculty, and staff members are A series of films will be shown in Africa, Asia, and Latin America, and expected to participate in the 1 I th Stapleton Lounge throughout the also prepares and distributes educa­annual Oxfam Fast for a World Har­day, beginning at 11 with 'Excuse tional materials for Americans on vest on Nov. 15. Me, America, a moving presentation the issues of development and 
The Fast for a World Harvest is a about poverty areas in the United hunger. nationwide day of fast to raise funds States. to feed the hungry and raise aware­Other films include 'Gods ofMetal Oxfam also supports projects that ness of what It is like to be without at 11:50, 'Taking Charge: The reach into villages and rural areas food even for one day. Struggle for Economic Justice, at where local grassroots groups arc 
12:20, 'I Want to Uvc; at 4:30, and working to increase their own food 
This year, Uv Ullman will play a both 'Excuse Me, America 'and 'Gods production and economic self­pan In the fast activities. Ullman, a of Metal' will be repeated at 5 and reliance. Sl·andlnavian actress and best selling 5:50 respectively. Coordinator of Social Ministries, 
author, has dedicated her life to The fast will close at 9 tonight Sister Mary Turgi, explains, "Fasting spreading a message ofsocial aware­with Mass and 'Break-Fast, a simple by Itself cannot end world hunger, ness. meal of soup and bread in the club­but it can deepen our committment 
At 4 this afternoon, in the house. to eliminate hunger through further Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall, SAGA Food Services will donate political, social, and educational ac­there will be an informal talk session S2 for each person that participates tion." with Ms. Ullman. in the fast. The money collected will Saint Mary's organizations co­
At t1 tonight she will lecture in be given to the SMC World Hunger sponsoring the fast include the ()'Laughlin Auditorium, and follow­Coalition and distributed to various World Hunger Coalition, Christian ing It at 9:30, a prayer vigil will begin organizations including Oxfam We Commission, Residence Life, In the SMC Clubhouse. America. and Campus Ministry. 
Students volunteer at new homeless shelter 
By MARK DILLON "The response was so great that it News Staff has created problems. Such a great percentage of our volunteers are 
An overnight shelter for South Notre Dame and Saint Mary':> stu­Bend's homeless is a new project in­dents, we arc concerned about staff­volving Notre Dame and Saint ing the shelter during school breaks Mary's students. and vacations." 
The shelter, located in the base­He continued, "Since there have ment of Maranatha Temple, is been so many volunteers we have sponsored and managed by the been unable to schedule all of them. United Religious Community of St. Many have signed up but have never Joseph County. The URC, a group of been contacted because of the great 85 local congregations and number. We are trying to schedule churches, opened the shelter Nov. I. everyone." 
Reverend Bert Harrison, director James Roemer, University direc­of the Rescue Mission ofSouth Bend tor ofC()mmunity relations, recently and chairman ofthe URC Task Force became involved in the project to on Shelter and Housing said, "Three help with the organization ofthe stu­years ago we became aware of the dent volunteers. need for some type of shelter due to For the past ten days, Roemer has a particular case involving a certain coordinated the effort.~ of student homeless chronic inebriate who had government, the senior classes of lost both legs to frostbite in the win· Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and ter of 1978." other student groups in trying to or­
ganize the student volunteers. Roemer has been impressed by
"In trying to help him we found the program. He said, "Our involve­
the only way to provide him with ment in the shelter is an important
shelter was to have him arrested for part of community relations. It also
the winter." gives students a chance to test their
This case inspired Harrison, Fa­knowledge of sociology and psy­
ther John Wilson and others to pres­chology and learn to relate to the
ent the idea of establishing a shelter inner-city and its street people."
for the homeless to the URC. 
The shelter is patterned after one on the north side of Chicago which "It's fun to work together with received attention in several na­your peers toward something tional magazines. worthwhile. It is a way to develop 
The URC-sponsored shelter, good friendships," he said. which can accomodate 63 people, University involvement in the opens each night from l 0:30 to shelter project goes beyond supply­
11:30. Guests are provided with ing volunteers. University President decaffinated coffee, sleeping mats Father Theodore Hesburgh donated and blankets, all donated from St. 5500 to the shelter which was in­Joseph Hospital and Memorial strumental in beginning the pro­Hospital. gram. The University has also 
The shelter is staffed by four or donated some furniture to the pro­five volunteers each night who over­gram. see the operation and provide as Shelter organizers believe the much comfort and security as possi­project has been successful so far. ble. To date more than 250 people Since the first night, the number of have volunteered to work at the homeless guests have steadily in­shelter. creased. Harrison expects the num­
Harrison and Wilson were over­bers to further increase as the whelmed by the number of volun­weather gel'i colder. teers, especially those from Notre As a result of the responses from 
Dame and Saint Mary's. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Wil­Wilson, who contacted hall rec­son said, "So far the problems we are tors to recruit students to work, said, having are good problems to have." 
Saint Mary's students have voice on Board of Regents 
Editor's note: The following Is the third of five articles examining the Notre Dame Board ofTrustees. The series will concentrate on who makes up the board, what its responsibilities Include, and the question of a student on the board. 

By THERESA GUARINO 
AssistantNews Editor 
Although a student on Notre Dame's Board of Trustees dues not seem likely in the future, Saint Mary's has had a student on the Board of Regents for as long as the board has been in existence. 
"lbe student regent's function, like any other regent, is not to rcp­resem any special interest group, 
but to bring her unique perspec­tive as a student to the board," said former Board of Regents Chair­woman Sister Mary Jane Honan. 
Committee. As a regent, she has full voting privileges in all business of the board. Other Saint Mary's students are eligible to sit in on board committees, but only the student regent can vote. 
This year's regent, senior Sue Simonaitis, has privileges not given to most members of the College administration. Only College Pres­

ident  John  Duggan  is  a  voting  
member ofthe board.  
Simonaitis,  a  psychol­ 

ogy/religious studies major, met with the board during their fall meeting last month. She feels confident that she is taken very seriously by the regents as their student voice. "I have gotten the impression that the board is very interested in what I have to say," she said. 

Simonaitis attended an orienta­tion session with other new regents before the board met as a 
The student regent attends both meetings of the board each year, and is a member ofthe Student Life 
whole. She also met with the Board of Governance earlier in the se­mester to explain her role on the board. Although Simonaitis believes as a student she can't help but be representative, she doesn't 
Board of Trustees series 
necessarily feel that is her func­
tion. 
"I don't go in there with a sys­tematizing list of what students think. I bring a student's view," she said. "I can't say whether it is al­ways compatible to students' views." 
As far as influence she carries with the regents, Simonaitis said she has"no more or less than any other member does." 
Along with a double major, Simonaitis carries a minor, and has been a resident assistant in Regina Hall for two years. However, she does not feel her student regent duties interfere with her workload. "It has and it hasn't taken up a lot of time," she said. "Meetings can fall during heavy academic times, but the faculty is very helpful and it's really no problem." 
Because the term of the student regent is only one year, compared to three years of other regents, the student is under more pressure to fit in quickly. "The disadvantage is having to be oriented quickly. You need to be on top right away," said Simonaitis. 
"I would encourage a student on the Board ofTrustees, a male and a female," said Board ofRegents Vice Chairman and South Bend busines­sman Jerry Hammes, who claims an allegiance both to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Hammes said he sees the student regent as having an equal voice in board matters, and "encourages that sort of thing. I believe in in­cluding as many as possible that arc the constituency." 
Notre Dame should not strive for a student trustee just because Saint Mary's system works success­fully, however, according to Hammes. "Notre Dame operates very well under their philosophy, and Saint Mary's operates very well under theirs." 
During the last board session, Simonaitis said the student life committee talked over developing a human sexuality program at the College. Future issues tentatively planned for discussion at the regents' next meeting in the spring include changes In the College's parietal system. 
I' 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, November 14, 1984-page 2 



In Brief 
A Flanner Hall Junior' Edward G. Lentz, was ar­rested early Saturday on charges of public intoxication, minor in possession of alcoholic beverages and resisting law e_nforcement by flight. He was released from the St. Joseph CountyJail on $100 cash bond. South Bend police said they were called to investigate a loud party with possible underage drinking at about 1:30 a.m. Saturday at 201 E. Navarre Street. Authorities said they sawone person sitting on the front porch drinking beer. When they questioned him, they said he ran away from police. Authorities chased him on Riverside Drive and finally caught him with a dog unit. Police said Lentz suffered two small puncture w9unds from the dog and scrapes ·from falls taken during the chase. He refused emergency treatment. The police in­vestigation into the incident revealed that there were about 400 people attending the Navarre Street party Friday night. The report would be turned over to the city attorney's office because of the underage drinking, police said. · The Observer 
The O:xfam signups this year totalled more than 1,000 signatures. This is almost 200 more than a year ago, and indi­cates an increased awareness on the part of Saint Mary's students concerning the fast. Due to this increase in support the SMC World Hunger Coalition will potentially raise $2,000 or more on this event. Money raised will go to aid area and overseas establishments com­bating hunger arid other social problems. · The Observer 
Faced with mounting budget deficits that reportedly could surpass S190 billion in coming years, President Reagan reminded his Cabinet yesterday that "we came here to dam the river" and admonished them to "start throwing in the rocks." White House spokesmen refused to confirm the $190 billion figure or even to say whether Reagan had been given a specific number during the Cabinet meeting, his first since winning a second term. But administration sources, speaking only on condition they not be identified, said the deficit may well go that high or higher ifcurrent economic conditions persist and no action is taken to•cut spending or raise taxes. ·AP 
Of Interest 
A Trivial Pursuit marathon is being sponsored by Junior class students at Notre Dame beginning at midnight tonight and continuing until noon Saturday. All proceeds from cash pledges received on the campus and in surrounding communities will be turned over to the Suicide Prevention Center and Hope Res­cue Mission. Participants at the event in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune Student Center will contribute $1 per hour as an entry fee. Cash pledges may be mailed to Junior Class, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, or telephoned to Kathy Weber, 283-2673, or Chuck Knapp, 283-2202. The purpose of the marathon is to complete 60 hours of nonstop trivia competition with new participants and new question readers hourly. ·The Observer 
Sign-ups for the shelter for the homeless for December and January will be on the first floor of LaFortune at the Ombudsman desk tonight from 6 to 8. Teams offour are needed to work at the shelter each night. Teams with at least one trained mem­ber should sign up between 6 and 7. All other teams should sign up from 7 to 8. All four team members must be present to sign up. -The Observer 
The "Sweeney Todd" banner was taken from LaFortune Student Center on Friday, Nov. 2. The Student Activities Board is asking for its return and is offering a noo reward. Persons knowing ofits whereabouts are being asked to call the student activi­ties office on LaFortune's second floor. -The Observer 
Applications are now available for senior class trip chairman for 1985 in the student activities office. Deadline far applying is Friday.· The Observer 

Weather 
-o~
Mostly sunny, windy and '•' warmer today. High around 60. Tonight and to­morrow, partly cloudy and mild. Low around 45 and high around 60. A 20 percent chance of showers. -AP 

Ihe .Observer 
The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( J20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The 
• l.:.._______ ___ __ __ .................·_···_···_···_·J-oh_n_o_·c_o-nn_o_r-.J
.l.v;acla_ted P_r_ess. -Al-l-r-e-pr_o_d-uc-t-io_n A.._d_D_e_s_lg_n__ _ _ _ _
( lliiJIIillls 21~ ~e~rved. .. ·....••.•. , •. • • ,l'_b?t~~~pber:··; ......................... Mary Flynn 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Production Consultant ........Steve Foster Design Editor ................. Maureen Murphy Design Assistant... ........................ Andy Saal Typesetters ..................................... Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner News Edltor............................... Mark Potter Copy Editor .................................... Liz Miller Sports Copy Editor ....................... Phil Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino VIewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout......................... Bob Henke ND Day Editor............................. Earl Baker SMC Day Editor......................... Shirley Ore 



Sassano's job is 'interesting, rewarding and challenging' 
1he walls of Joe Sassano's office reflect his attitude 
towards his job. They are filled almost exclusively with 
pictures of the Athletic and Convocation Center -· 
inside and out. 
As programs director of the ACC, Sassano spends a 
good part of nearly every day in the peculiar double­
humped building. The telephone on his desk shows 
wear from its frequent use and the coffee machine 
down the hall is seemingly always brewing up a fresh 
pot. His genial tone of voice and quick handshake indi­
cate one overwhelming feature ofhis personality·· this 
guy is a pro. 
Since he started working at the ACC in July of 1968, 
five months before the facility officially opened, Sassano 
has made an effort to develop the building into more 
than just another coUege athletic center. 

"The University has tried to establish a 'town and 'gown' relationship with South Bend, and to some ex­
them a chance to have a place that they can call their own. The ACC serves as a bridge to link the University and the people in the area." 
"That's the kind of thing that a University should do and should be," he says. 
Before coming to work at the ACC, Sassano spent ten years as the football coach at Weber High School in Chicago. When he first came to Notre Dame he worked as the assistant director of the spanking new ACC facility. He has since advanced to programs manager, a position which concentrates on special event program­ming. 
On any given day, it is not unusual to find Sassano negotiating with Neil Diamond's promoters one minute and closing the deal on an upcoming trade show the next. "It is really a 12-month-a-year job that keeps you moving from one project to the next," he admits. 
Besides his duties as program manager, Sassano is also the director of the Notre Dame Summer Sports Camp 
Unitedway
• 


LIV ULLMANN,," 
Wednesday, November 14 
Noted Scandinavian actress. member of Broadway stage and best-selling author, brings to the podium a message heightened by her committment to social causes. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8:00pm 
Ticket information-call S.M.C. Box Office 284-4626 
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 
Inside Wednesda 
program. He brings youths in from all over the country during the summer to be given instruction by Notre Dame coaches. "It is a very heartwarming program," he says. "It gives the kids an opportunity to have real live contact with the University in their early years." 
"A good number ofthese youths have also wound up becoming students and now some are alumni of the school." 
In booking programs for the ACC, Sassano says he tries to aim for a wide market. "You consider the tastes 
geographic area." 
He says he hopes in the future the ACC can continu­ally develop its relationships with artists, artist manage­ment and entertainment promoters. "I hope the facility can be turned into an entertainment venue, a creative atmosphere," he says. "I've been very proud ofour per­sonnel here at the ACC. They've helped make it a pleas­ant working atmosphere. They become part ofthe show even though the focus is on the entertainer." 
The best way to describe his job? "It's fun. It's varying. It's interesting, rewarding, challenging ...." 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
tent the whole Michiana area. I think the ACC has created a wider base for that because of the special event activities that give the people living in this area the opportunity to come out and participate," he says. 
The ACC has added a "definite quality of life" to the area, according to Sas­sano. "A good high-level of major entertainment acts in your own back yard gives a feeling ofa greater quality of life," he says. 
"The athletic aspects of the University have always been there, but the enter­tainment and other special event activities likewise give of not just the narrow Uni­versity community but the broader area ofthe Michiana region. Our goal is to try to attract acts that would be of interest to the broadest community," he explains. 


The visibility of an area is important in attracting top­name acts, according to Sas­sano. "We shoot for name recognition ·· aside from the recognition that the city of South Bend gets from Notre Dame football and basket­ball telecasts," he com­ments. "When promoters advertise an event, they say 'South Bend' instead of 'Notre Dame' since nation­ally people can pinpoint the 








TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 

The Observer-
Interested in laying out a newspaper? 
Introductory Meeting Thursday, 7:00 3rdfloor LaFortune 

The Observer Wednesday, November 14, 1984-page 3 

Actor Steve Landesburg will perform tomorrow night tn O'Laugbltn Auditorium. Story below. 


Comic to visit Saint Mary's 

Special 'u •IJe Observer formative years in his native 
If the face looks familiar, that's be-ethnically-mixed Bronx, New York. cause you know him as the wry, in-One of television's most recog tcllectual Sergeant Arthur Dietrich nizable stars after five and a h 
on the hit television series "Barney years with "Barney Miller" and a Mlller." In real life, Steve Landes-accompanying three Emmy nomina berg's comedic talents go far beyond tions, his impersonations range fro the cerebral remarks of his alter ego English royalty to 1V evangelists an In the 12th Precinct. rock musicians. No person, institu-
Landesberg will perform tomor-tion, or ethnic background is safe. row at 8:30 p.m. in O'Laughlin Tickets for the performance ar Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. S5, S4 for students, and may be ob-
His unique brand .of stand-up tained by calling Saint Mary's Ticke comedy, at once low-key and off-Office at 284-4626. The event is co­beat, comes from his keen ear for sponsored by the student govern­dialect and sharp eye for charac-ment organizations of Saint Mary's terlzatlon. This skill was developed and Indiana University at South and nurtured durin Landcsber 's Bend. 
PIZZERIA AND PUB 


130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 

277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 


~~-r-~-J 
Cotl betot• 11 Coli btifof• 9l0
l 
EXPIRES 11/14/84 EXPIRES 11/18/84/ 




Calendar sparks controversy 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
News Staff 
The controversy surrounding publication of the "Women of Notre Dame calendar" has been " much ado about nothing," according to general chairman in charge of its publication George Jordan. The calendar, a project of Holy Cross Hall, goes on sale tomorrow priced at $7. 
The controversy began after an ar­ticle in Tbe Observer implied wo­men chosen for the calendar would be judged on their contribution to Notre Dame. 
At least that is how a group ofwo­men from Farley Hall read it, who upon learning who was actually to be featured in the calendar blasted Jordan and "the men of Holy Cross Hall," in a letter to the editor on Nov. 8. 
The letter, signed "Concerned Representatives of Farley Hall," accused the publishers of the calen­dar of hypocrisy and "false commit­ment" to their stated objective. 
They contended the selections had been "based on good looks alone," the women being "average students" with "no involvement worth noting." 
Jordan's response, which ran in The Observer the next day, an­swered most of the challenges aimed at him and the calendar. 
He said that in the initial article he was quoted as saying the women would be chosen "on the basis ofap­pearance, poise and contributions to the University." The selections were made "on a wide range of criteria that we hope represents all Notre Dame women," he continued In his response, noting that most applica­tions did include numerous ex­tracurricular activities. 
"We never did say we were going to put the main emphasis on contri­butions to Notre Dame," he said In an interview yesterday. He said the selection committee was not in a 

SMC senior wins $500 
By LAURA S. GRONEK 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's senior Sarah Loeffier will be the recipient of this year's $500 Ernst & Whinney Scholarship. 
The award, which will be applied to her second semester tuition, was announced Tuesday, Nov. 6 at an awards ceremony in the SMC dining hall. 
Each year since 1977, the cer­tified public accounting firm of Ernst & Whinney has offered all junior accounting majors at Saint Mary's the chance to compete for the scholarship. 

In order to be considered, each applicant must complete an applica­tion and submit a short essay ex­plaining her interest in public accounting. 
These essays and applications are 




DAILY SPECIALS 
Antojitos Mexicanos (Appetizers) Gratis 7-10pm 
WE HAVE CARRY OUT AT 




~··· .. "TAME THE LIONS" 
tf' DANCE PARTY 
Friday, November 16 lOpm -lam at Chautauqua (LaFortune) 
food and drink -D.J. $1.00 at door 
Alumni and friends WELCOME 
sponsored by Campus Entertainment Commission 
then reviewed by the faculty and recommendations are made to Ernst & Whinney. The firm selects "the student most likely to succeed in public account-ing," and notifies her during the first semester of her senior year. 
"I was very surprised," said Loef­fler, "It's such a great honor. I just wish that everyone could have won something because so many deserv­Ing people, who worked so hard, were involved." 
Jack Rube, chairman of the SMC Business Department, said the award is just one indication of the increasing demand for public ac­counting. The changing tax laws, he said, are stimulating a need for ac­countants. He said the E&W Award is an example of this growing con­centration on people in non­technical fields. 
,..................................-........-......................................1 

j The Class of 1985 li Presents Its Annual BLOCK PARTY!! i Friday, November 16 i 
i
3:30pm -6:30pm 


ACC (Enter Gate 3) 
I 
I 
I 


Come and enjoyfood and music I with administration, faculty, students, and members ofthe 1 Northeast Neighborhood! I 
~.............................................................-......-................J. 
"position to judge who has done the most for the University." 
Jordan admitted some considera­tion wa.'i given "to the market for calendars." In light of marketing considerations, he said anyone who believes no consideration should be given to appearance is "blind to the reality" of the situation. 
Jordan doesn't feel the calendar exploits women in any way, em­phasizing that women were chosen to form a representative group . 

Army teachet injured by explosion 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
News Staff 
An accidental explosion that 
occurred during a ROTC Leader­
ship Lab last Thursday gave Army 
Sergeant Major Francis Boyle se­
vere cuts and burns on his left 
hand. 
Boyle wa.~ trying to set a small 
explosive that would simulate a 
booby trap. The device, approxi­
mately the size of an M-80, 
detonated, cutting and burning 
Boyle. 
"His hand was saturated with 
blood," said freshman Mike Fag­
nant, an Army ROTC student 
who witnessed the accident. Fag­
nant was surprised that such a 
thing would happen, but said, 
"Boyle was really calm about it." 
Boyle was taken to Memorial 
Hospital, where he was treated 
and released. 
Lt. Col. Robert Skinner, profes­
sor of military science, likened 
the accident to an old carpenter 
who after 30 years ofsawing, cuts 
offhis finger. Skinner said It was" 
a simple accident caused by care­
lessness." 
AT FIVE CORNERS OPEN 12 p.m. to 3 a.m. 
Old Milwaukee 
so~tglass 
$2.50 I pitcher 



COMMONS 

r 
r 
r 
t 
r 
r 
r 
f 
r 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 



View~_o__i_n__t____________
w_ed_n_e.sd_a_.y....N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_l_4•._1_9_s_4__p_ag_e_4 
FCEs make grade 
As long as there have been professors, teacher-course evaluations have been a regular part of the end-of-the-semester ritual at Notre Dame. 
Students hurriedly scribble pencil marks on a computer form, as some pro­fessors -even though they are not supposed to -administer the evaluations. Students are asked to complete the essay part of the evaluations in their "spare time" because it is time to get on with class. Few students do. The computer forms are collected, stuffed in a manilla envelope and whisked away to some mysterious floor in the Library where they are never heard from or seen again. 
It is Notre Dame's version of objective course evaluation, and it is not working, primarily, because the results are never reviewed by the students who write them. 
As an alternative, student government organized and published Faculty Course Evaluations, a compilation published two weeks ago ofthe 453 courses offered during the 1984 spring semester. The $1,000 project represents a good first step toward faculty evaluations that actually mean something to students. Already during this week's advance registration, students turned to the FCEs to find out if a certain professor is recommended by other students who have taken the course. 
There are some problems, however. The surveys were mailed to students last spring, but the response was less than inspiring. For many classes, the percentage of students responding was below 30 percent -hardly a reliable sample. In addition, some of the courses listed are no longer offered or the teacher is different. 
The evaluations asked students to rate teachers from one to five on concern, clarity, preparedness and fairness. On the same rating scale, students were asked ifthey would recommend the professor and the class. Students also listed the grade they expected in the class. 
No one expects the FCEs to be the end-all in the world offaculty evaluations. But with a grain of salt or two, the evaluations give an interesting perspective on how Notre Dame students view their teachers. Among the interesting and curious results of the evaluations -some more specific than others -are the following: 
•Professors 
who are most highly recommended generally give high grades. Likewise, professors who are least recommended give low grades. This comes as no surprise to Notre Dame's intelligentsia who argue that career-conscious students have lost their taste for scholarship, but not for grades. 

•On 
the average, students expect to get slightly higher than a "B" in their classes, according to the FCEs. But once upon a time, a "C" indicated average. Not anymore, it seems, adding fuel to the fire that grade inflation has become rampant. 


•Freshmen engineers find their Introduction to Engineering course ( EG 
120) confusing, time-consuming and difficult. The course's recommendation of 2.2 is~one ofthe lowest given in the College of Engineering. 
•Math courses offered for freshmen (MATH 104 to MATH 126) are col­lectively the hardest group ofcourses at Notre Dame. The expected grade for these classes averaged 2.78, a half of a letter grade lowe£ than most other courses at Notre Dame. 
•The class with the lowest expected grade, 2.1, was Mechanical Engineering 
226. Its workload was a relatively high 4.3. The professor, Dr. Robert Howland, was named the teacher ofthe year in the College of Engineering last year. And ironically, most engineering students appear to agree with the award. 
•Evaluations 
depend mostly on the teacher, not on the course content. Three sections of Economics 225, for example, have varied evaluations with recommendation ratings directly corresponding to expeCted grade. 

•For 
all the bad publicity over the alcohol policy, Father William Beauc­hamp, executive assistant to the president and professor ofmanagement, fared well in the evaluations. His MGT 363 received good marks in all areas. Receiv­ing even better marks was Father David Tyson, newly appointed vice president for Student Affairs, who also served on the alcohol-policy committee. Tyson was given near perfect marks for fairness and concern. 


It is also interesting to see which courses at Notre Dame are the hardest and easiest (based on workload marks) and which professors are the best and worst (based on recommendation). Not including courses where the response was less than 30 percent, the results are: 
Best professors Worst professors Albert Wimmer (German 112) Tadashi Nagano ( MATil 336) Thomas Morris (PHIL 201 ) G.J. Gabriel (EE 242) 
Katherine Tillman ( PI.S 382) R. Saba (MATIII04) 
Heller (German 490, first name unavailable) Deloris Davisson ( CAPP 243) Roben Kerby ( HIST 4 54) Arthur Quigley (EE 372) Murry Kanury (ME 461 ) Hsin-sheng Tal ( MATil 226) William Storey (lliEO 422) J. LaPierre(ENG 109) David Harrington (ECON 225) K. Blaeser (ENG 109) 
Janet Smith (PI.S 242) Dan Maguire ( lliEO 260) Hardest courses 
Russian 102 (Marullo)
Easiest courses 

German 368 (Eagan) ACCT 473 (Slowey) PI.S 382 (Tillman) lliEO 344 (Mertensotto) ARCH 251 (Hurtt) ENG 319 (Soens) MARK 492 (Thurin) PHIL 261 (Bobick) ACCT 371 (Cullather) MARK231 (Wahlers) BIOL 344 (Olson) TIIEO 200(0'Meara) CHEM 236(Miller) MATII210 (Pailay) lliEO I00 ( Burtchaell) EASC 454 (Winkler) TIIEO 422 (Storey) ME 240 (Houghton) TIIEO 442 (Hauerwas) PHIL 246 (Kessler) 
-The Observer 



ND/SMC Big Brothers and Sisters need help 
At present, more than 190 boys and girls from the South Bend community wait to be matched with a Big Brother or Big Sister. These kids, ranging in age from seven to 17, need Big Brothers and Sisters for various reasons. Most are from single parent families and lack self esteem. Many are not doing well in school. Others may be involved with alco­hol or drugs. However, they all share the need for a friend to look up to and respect. Some­one who can offer a little guidance and lend some support is really all these youths desire. 
The Big Brothers-Big Sisters organization of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, regarded as one of the most successful campus-oriented 
John Shea 
guest column 
groups in the country, currently consists of65 students. This group is an integral part of the Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Saint Joseph County, which includes more than I40 volun­teers. The United Way is responsible for managing the BB/BS program on the natinal level. The desire to spend a few hourseach week with a "little brother" or "little sister" is the distinct quality which these volunteers all share. Also, each has submitted an application and participated in a brief orientation and training seminar. Of those students presently involved in the program, the majority are white Notre Dame men. Unfortunately, the 
number of minority students involved in the program is relatively low, as is the number of Saint Mary's women. , 
Based in South Bend, the staff of the BB/BS of Saint Joseph County is responsible for matching volunteers with the children of this community. The "Big" and "little" are paired on the basis of similar interests, expected compatibility, and numerous other criteria. Once matched, the "Big" and "Little" are, for the most part, on their own. The one-to-one relatinships they share usually last from one to four years. The "Littles" are surprisingly un­derstanding about summer vacations and other school breaks. Most of those matched remain in touch via letters and phone calls. 
Most Big Brothers and Sisters spend two to four hours each week with their Little Brot­hers and Sisters. A small sampling ofthe count­less things they do together include bowling, going to movies, canoeing, baking cookies, at­tending Notre Dame football games, going to dinner, playing basketball, shopping and just hanging around together. In addition to the things they do on their own, both the Saint Joseph County and the ND/SMC organiza-
Viewpoint 


Policy 
tions occasionally sponsor group activities such as dinner at Show Biz Pizza, a rollerskat­ing party, miniature golfing, a trip to Chicago, and an annual Christmas party. 
Virtually all Big Brothers and Sisters agree that the most rewarding aspect of this pro­gram is the feeling oftruly making a difference in somebody's life. Most of the kids in the South Bend community genuinely look up to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Many are at the impressionable age when two to four hours each week over the course of a couple years can definitely influence their lives. More than doing something for an indi­vidual child, Big Brothers and Sisters also con­tribute to the local community, our home for the better part of four years. Unfortunately, many students never really venture far beyond the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Beyond the satisfying feeling ofhaving done something significant for a child or for the community as a whole, Big Brothers and Sisters benefit and grow in many ways them­selves. They learn to deal with kids and their problems. They learn more about the South Bend community, its problems and needs, and what it has to offer. The average student seems to know remarkably little about this city and its people. Social awareness is also enhanced, and many are exposed to different lifestyles, environments, and perspectives for the first time. Moreover, Big Brothers and Sisters have fun doing what they do. They make friendships that often become very close. For "Bigs" and "Littles" to stay in touch long after graduation is certainly not rare. 
I first became involved with the BB/BS pro­gram at the end ofmy freshman year. My Little Brother, in 6th grade then, is now a freshman in high school. We have had a great time to­gether over the last few years, and we have both gained abundantly from our friendship. I would sincerely like to believe that I am making a difference in his life. I know that he has certainly made a difference in mine -with­out even trying. One of the toughest parts about graduating next May is going to be saying good-bye to Harold, his family, and his friends. 
I strongly encourage any underclassmen 
who might be interested in Big Brothers-Big 
Sisters to think seriously about the program 
and the commitment involved. For more in­
formation or an application, write to BB/BS, 
I 0 II E. Madison Street, South Bend, Indiana 
466I7, or call 232-9958. I would also be glad 
to talk to anyone interested in finding out 
more, as would any Big Brother or Sister. 
john Shea is president of the ND/SMC Big Brothers-Big Sisters and is a senior market­i~g major at Notre Dame. 

Viewpoint wants to bear from you. Ifyou bave an opinion, brlllant Insight or humorous comment concerning anything appearing in The Observer just send a let­ter toP.O.Box Q. 
"ieVVR~O~i~n~t~----------------------------------------W--ed_n_e_sd_a_y_,_N_o_ve_m_b_e_r_I_4_,_I_9B_4___P_a_g_e__5 

No Democratic candidate could have won in 1984 
Why did Mondale lose? It is a laughable ex­ercise for people to blame his defeat on this or that "mistake." He could no more have won in 1984 than Geor~e McGovern -or any Demo-
Garry Wills 

outrider 
crat -could have won in 1972. Richard Nixon won by a landslide in that year because he was an incumbent with a prosperous economy (artificially stimulated by the precedin~ year's controls), the peace issue was on his side despite Vietnam (he had made his trip to China), and ht· was positioned on the right sidt• of the nation's indination (which was still opposed to rioters and demonstrators). 
The landslide of 1972 was mainly the con­fi~uration of 1968 with George Wallace removed. Add Wallace's 1968 vote to Nixon's 1968 vote, and the latter man would have been within three points of his I972 total. McGovern was not a strong candidate, and he made some mistakes (mainly his treatment of Eagleton). Another Democrat could have run a better campaign; but no other Democrat would have won. 
Mondale faced an opponent more for­midable than McGovern had. Nixon was not attractive; Reagan outglows even Ike. Reagan seems to have a prosperity without having gone through the interval of controls, and he is not plagued by an ongoing war. 
Some exit polls show people voted for Reagan who had previously been "for" Gary Hart. lbat docs not mean they would have voted for Hart against Reagan. They were 



P.O. BoxQ 
"for" Hart against Mondale, orJackson -which might indicate they preferred glamour to ideology or party loyalty. If so, Hart would have found himself in the Glamour Super Bowl against Reagan. 
We hear a good deal, already, about Mondale's two principal mistakes -the prom­ise to raise taxes, and the choice ofGeraldine Ferraro. Some have told pollsters they would have voted for Mondale but for one or the other (or both) of these mistakes. But the Mondale they say they would have voted for is a different man from the one he had been before those "mistakes." 
It is easy to forget that the way ofdismissing Mondale before the Democratic convention was to say he was totally lacking in indepen­dence, flair or the ability to act on his own. One of the reasons his popularity rose after the convention was his unconventional be­havior during it, breaking away from the stereotype. He was behind, and he had to play high-risk politics. It changed people's view of him, even if they did not like the particular choices he made. 
There is, in fact, no reason to think the mistakes did not help. Mondale, against the super-candidate in a moment of tremendous incumbency-advantage, got over 40 percent of the votes. Without his supposed errors, he might well have fared as poorly as Goldwater in 1964 ( 38. S percent) or McGovern in 1972 
( 3 7. S percent). He could have got 35 percent, not 40. 
By the way, after Goldwater and McGovern won fewer votes than Mondale has, it wa~ said of each man's party that it had suffered a nearly fatal, if not fatal, blow. In the very next election, each man's party won the presidency. 
(C) 1984, UNIVERSAL PRE'iSSYNDIC;.ATE 
Democrats are still present at Notre Dame 
Dear Editors: 
As part ofthe inevitable post-election analy­sis being conducted in these pages, I would like to offer my observations of what went on last Tuesday evening. I am a grad student and a faithful Democrat, but more Important, I am a regular customer and part-time bartender at the Graduate Club. I spent the better part of seven hours there watching the election returns and observing the reactions of the other grad students to the election news. 
Every time it looked like Mike Barnes could possible win the 3rd District Congressional seat there was cheering. Mondale's victory in the District of Columbia drew applause. The unfortunate triumph ofJesse Helms in North Carolina was booed. NBC's growing blue map was genuinely blues-inspiring. It led me to the conclusion that, "Hey, there arc Democrats here?" 
At first it was inconceivable. At Notre Dame, everybody is white, Catholic and Re­publican, right? Apparently not. With some exception, it appears that the grad student population is largely Democratic and they don't like Ronald Reagan. 
But why? Maybe it is because the grad stu­dents are a little bit more knowledgable of the true policies of the Reagan administration and do not resort to rationalizing their support ofa candidate with empty statements such as "America feels good again." Maybe it is be­cause the majority of grad students did not spend their undergraduate years at Notre Dame where the undergrads are treated like children at summer camp. Most of all, maybe it is because we are a little older and came of political age and awareness not during jimmy Carter's term in the White House (which might not have been a'i successful as his Dem­ocratic predeces.~ors of whom today's Republicans arc fond of quoting) but during the era of Gerald Ford's WIN buttons and Richard Nixon's 18 minute gap and "expletive deleted". 
For those grads who disagree, a five dollar membership fee at the Grad Club allows you to argue with me until June 1985. 
Evan G. Bauman Graduate Student 
Letters to the editor may be mailed to The Observer, P. 0. Box Q or may be hand delivered to our office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. 


Antagonism, jealousy behind poster criticism 
Dear Editor: 

'Ibe task ofselecting twelve men or twelve women for a calendar representative of Notre Dame is a difficult one. It is difficult precisely because many more than twelve people are fully qualified. To isolate twelve is not to say that these twelve epitomize the ultimate rep­resentatives of the Notre Dame community. lbe decision as to whom those representa­tives arc depends upon many factors, includ­Ing the personal ideas and attitudes possessed by the Individual member of the selection committee. 
Being the only woman on the selection committee for the Women of Notre Dame Calendar, I wa'i able to provide insight from a female point ofview as to what considerations may be taken Into account in selecting representitives. In addition, I also gained in­sight In reaching my conclusions concerning the candidates by listening to the men's con­siderations. Rather than aggravating the ten­sions caused by the calendar, the men and women of the community should view the calendar a'> one interpretation of representa­tives ofNotre Dame. Antagonism and jealousy caused by the selection of women's position and status at Notre Dame may be attributed to these feelings. 
The men and women of Notre Dame should attempt to work together towards improving this situation so it is not an issue all all. 
Lisa De Niscia Co-chairperson The Advisory Council for Women Students 

Juxtaposing Democrat and Republican images 
Dear Editor: 

The article in Wednesday's Observer which stated, "Republicans are rich and greedy people", was a false statement reflecting an in­correct image many feel Republicans take part in. 
Republicans are realists. They believe in the idea ofmotvation and incentives. Pull big gov­ernment out of the way and let the intelli­gence and creativity of the American people take over. Ifan idea can make a dollar you can bet some one is going to have an idea; ideas that benefit everyone, in medicine, science, space and the list goes on. Republicans are realists when it comes to the Russians as well. Do some reading on Leninism and the Com­munistic ideology; their goal has been world domination and we have absolutely no evidence to show it has ever changed. We can not afford to kid ourselves. To say Republicans starve the poor to build bombs is hog-wash. Defense Is the one essential thing government must provide. 
Democrats on the other hand are idealists 
illusioncd with the notion that the govern­ment can solve all your problems.Just sit back and old Uncle Sam will take care of you. They have good, Christian intentions. Take from the rich, give to the poor, stop building bombs and help any one that wants a hand out. The problem is this just doesn't work in the real world. The results of their efforts have com­pletely abolished any hope one could have of trying to get ahead. They have lost the idea of incentive. It is an illusion to believe people work for nothing. Why try to produce, to work, to create ifwe are all going to be in the same boat in the end. Astagnant unproductive nation is the result. Inflation and unemploy­ment become rampant which certainly does not help the lower class who the Democrats are so concerned about in the first place. Their monstrous government that does every­thing but wipe your nose and pay your taxes hurts us all, sooner or later. 
Petejanickt DtllonHall 

Power and freedom are not worth the price 
Dear Editor: 
Ann Pcttifer's article "Equating Pro-Life with Anti-Women" states that "pro-lifers' wish is to restore women to the hearth ... provid­ing consolations in the comfortless world men create." She also says women having abortions feel powerless. That is a ludicrous excuse. Many women having abortions simply are failing to take responsibility for their ac­tions. Abortion is a quick, permanent solution to their problem. 
Pettifer feels that pro-lifers arc wrong to oppose birth control and the Equal Rights Amendment which would "emancipate wo­men." Emancipate them to do what -kill children they are too irresponsible and selfish to allow to live? She says "with birth control, women are threatening the patriarchal pro­life male." 
Let us be realistic. We are far from the times when women stayed home, and men feared women in control. Women are just as free to be educated and to work as are men. Many female pro-life supporters do not believe that birth control and abortions · guarantee freedom. It is pathetic when a women thinks that murdering another human being makes her powerful and free. Power and freedom are not worth it at that price. 
MaryGodi Freshman 



The Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-tn·Chief. . .  . Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager.  .... Dave Taiclet  
Managrng Editor  ...... Mark Worscheh  Controller . .  Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Editor .  . ..... Sarah Hamilton  Advertising Manager .  ..... Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Edrtor  ...... Dan McCullough  ;:;;rculation Manager.  . Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Sarnt Mary"s Edrtor . . .. Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager.  ..... Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Editor..  Michael Sullivan  Production Manager.  .. Chr~s Bowler  
of a maJOrity of the Editorial Board. Commentar~es. letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Edrtor . .  . .. Dave Grote  Pro1ect Manager  . Amy Stephan  
present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the  Features Editor  .. Mary Healy  
commun1ty, and the free expression of varying op1n1ons on campus, through letters.  Photo Editor.  . .......... Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
IS encouraged.  





Accent 

DemiMoore -exciting element in teen movie 



John Hines 
features staff writer 

Movies 
M
ost films fall into three general 
categories. An excellent film is 
worth forking over four bucks to 
see and splurging on popcorn too! 
A fair to mediocre film shouldn't be 
bothered with. Wait until it comes 
on television. A very mediocre to 
putrid movie is the type offilm a 
moviemaker should buy you 
industial-strength NO-DOZE, and 
pay you to sit through the thing. 
Sorry to say, "No Small Affair," 
starringJon Cryer and Demi Moore 
fits the fair to mediocre category. As 
you might have expected from the 
title, this is another youth-or!ented, 
teen-age-sex-fantasy-infatuated­

~ 
r 
r 
r 
I 
r 
the final and only bedroom scene in the movie. 
One ofthe main problems ofthis movie is that most of the adults are generally portrayed as jerks. Charles' mother is a doddering, insecure, empty-headed Southern Bell, attached to a bare-headed pill popping druggie, relic of the '60's. Charles' much older brother and his fiancee appear silly and un­believably immature. The cor­pulant, crusty nightclub owner, adroitly played by George Wendt (Norm of"Cheers" fame), is the only responsible, accurately portrayed adult in the entire movie. 
Demi Moore is definitely one of the more exciting elements in "No Small Affair." Not only does she look like she walked off the cover of VOGUE, but her sexy, sultry voice is reminiscent of Lauren Bacall's from her movies of 35 years ago. Although the movie is Moore's second feature movie, she is best remembered as the seductiveJackie Templeton of"General Hospital.;' Not only is Moore attractive, but she can act to. 
Jon Cryer, on the other hand, does a good job as Charles Cum­mings, but he seems very much like a 19-year-old actor playing the part ofa teenager. Cryer thinks ofhim­self as a 1 0-year-old Ricky Schroder, very naive, cutesy and smily. His portrayal ofCharles Cummings seems canned at times. Cryer's gestures, and speech look and sound like those of many actors of his age who appear in Neil Simon films. There's nothing really wrong with this except that he does not appear genuine. 
The cinematography also desrves a favorable word for its freshness and excitement. San Francisco is an exciting city to look at, and Vilmos Zsigmond does a good job ofcap­turing it on film. 


~ 
with-a-girl movie-almost. 
The director, Jerry Schatzberg, and writers Charles Bolt and Terence Mulcahy, are to be com­mended for imparting "No Small Affair" with an extra element of class, not often found in many films in the last year or two. Unlike other youth-oriented, R-rated, skin flicks oflate, the characters in "No Small Affair" are not shown always jump­ing into bed together. In recent movies this has become a com­monly used device to transform boring movies into exciting ones. Sex, alone, does not a good movie make. Sometimes, though, sex can 
thinly disguise a very boring one. 
In "No Small Affair" Charles Cum­mings, played by Jon Cryer is a 16-year-old student, obsessed with photography, who salvages the career of one down on her luck singer, Laura Victor, played by Demi Moore. Charles becomes enamored with Laura after dis­covering her VOGUE-model face in the background ofone ofhis photos ofSan Francisco's Warf district. 
When Laura and her band are fired by their employer, nightclub ownerJake, Charles offers to take some pictures of her in order to help her build a portfolio. Eventu­ally, Charles spends all ofhis hard earned 56000 savings, ear-marked for the beginnings ofa fashion pho­tography career in Milan, to put Laura's picture on top of 175 Yel­low Cabs in San Francisco. Ul­timately, Charles' galant gesture secures Laura a recording contract in Los Angeles, and sets the cue for 

Moore and George Wendt (Jake) relax at Jake's club 
Discover offers career and 01ajor guidance  
by Kathy Scarbeck features staff writer  
Students suffering from the peren­the operators are provided with nial problem ofchoosing a major print outs ofits findings. or who are considering graduate Utz reports that DISCOVER, a study may well find helpful guid­nationally known program ance at the push ofa few computer produced by the American College buttons. Given the appropriate title Testing program, has "reported of DISCOVER, this computer sys­good success" in past efforts. The tem provides students with infor­idea for obtaining such a service mation on both academic and came after hearing from counselors career opportunities. and advisors that "many students According to Patrick Utz, Direc­were dissatisfied with their major tor ofCounseling and Psychological or the direction they were headed,' Services at Notre Dame, the system Utz says. He also cites the fact that allows the operator to "talk back there are many coming out of their and forth with the computer." After freshman year who are still un­the student has answered specific decided about their future areas of questions regarding his or her inter­study. According to Utz, the pro­ests, abilities, and values, the com­gram is designed to help freshmen puter plots out matching career and sophomores decide on majors opportunities and the training that and juniors and seniors to get ideas is necessary to prepare for them. about life after graduation. The system can also provide infor­mation about different graduate, The DISCOVER program is run law, and professional schools. In out of the Student Health Center, addition to all of this, the student and in the near future there will be can even pinpoint colleges or uni­added facilities at the Career and versities according to GRE scores, Placement Center. Interested stu­tuition, and location. The whole dents should call 239-7336 to set process takes about two hours, and up an appointment. 



~------------------------------~­

Wednesday, November 14, 1984-page 6 ­
7 


P
izza connoisseurs of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community might have been a little confused when tht•y returned from fall break. What had happened to their favor­ite haunt, Nancy's Windy City? Why was it now called the Windy City Sports Emporium? 
Fear not, pizza lovers. Nancy's has only broadened Its already diverse and tasty offerings since its Oct. 8 rechristening as the Pastaria. The restaurant now offers a range of original pasta dishes, as well as hot sandwiches and salads. But that old favorite, Chicago-style deep-dish pizza loaded with hot cheese and trimmings, is still around -and selling as fast as ever. 
Current food trends prompted the creation ofa new menu. "Pasta's In vogue right now, especially in the Ea-;t," stated General Manager jerry Grantham. He added that Nancy's needed a name change to go with its new formata: "We felt that Nancy's wa-; seen as just a pizza place." 
But tht· Pastaria ha-; made a suc­cessful transition from pizzeria to fine-dining restaurant. Former Nancy's patrons will think nothing has changed as they enter the chet·rful dining room. Ceiling fans, Chicago posters, and comfortable rt·d vinyl booths still contribute to a relaxed dining atmosphere. '!bose wanting to enjoy cocktails can sip tht·m in the lounge while watching a game on the large-screen 'IV. 
Pastarla food and scrvict· arc certainly up to former Nancy's ~tandards. Afrkndly waitress served our drink.' and encouraged us to take all the time we needed to orda. When we finally made our selections, we were not disap­pointed. An appetizer offrkd ched· dar cheese cubes arrived hot and crunchy. Mint•stronc soup, which is optional with all Pa-;taria dinners, t·amc In hearty, steaming portions thick with vegetables. 
Pastaria: A good thing gets better and better 
by Diane McBrian 
features staffwriter 


j 
'!be new pa-;ta offerings were just 
as successful. Lasagna was stuffed 
with cheese and perfect, followed 
closely by pa-;ta primavera and 
spaghetti dishes. One non-pasta 
dish, chicken parmagiana, was also 
well-cooked hut bland. True pa<;ta 
devotees may want to try the Pas· 
taria's Monday night special: all­
you-can-cat spaghetti for $2.49. 
Our dinner ended deliciously 
with cinnamon-raisin cheesecake. 
Cannoli lovers will want to try the 
Pastaria's intensely sweet version. 
Deep-dish pizza, however, con· 
tinues to lure many students. 
SeniorsJennifer Czaplewski, 

Maripat Horn, and jennifer Maguire 
say they visit the Pa-;taria at least 
twice a week: "They have the best 
pizza in town." They cited another 
old Nancy's tradition· nightly 

Happy Hours · as favorite events. 
Why? "Long Island Iced tea and 
Dreamsicles!" 

Wbile dinner at the Pastaria is a 
bigger investment than a Hud· 

dleburger, the moderate prices of 
S5 to $7 per dinner and $14 per 
large pizza (a meal for 4) · arc ap· 
propriate for the original and tasty 
Pastaria cooking. A popular spot 
with students and families, the 

Pastaria is suitable for both that 
special evening out and that post· 
exam pizza · which is guaranteed to 
he delicious. 

Tbe Windy City Pastaria Sports Emporium is located on South BendAve. five minutesfrom campus. The dining room is open Monday through Thursday from 
11:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m., Friday and Saturday 11:30 a.m. to mid­night, and simdayfr(ml 11:30 to 9 
p.m. lounge hours are Monday through Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to midmight, Friday and Saturday from 11:30 a.m. to 2 a.m., and Sundayfrom I 1:30 a.m. to mid­night. 
MasterCharge, Visa, andAmeri­can Express are accepted. 
The Observer /Chaitanya Panchal 

''Teachers" asks questions, but answers few 
Scott Ebersol 
features staff writer 
Movies 
I
n a year filled with films ofstern, serious heart such as "A Soldier's Story" and "Places in the Heart;" pointless comedies surrounding frivolous lives like "All of Me" and "Wildlife," one film stands out hccaust· ofits subtle mix of tradi· tiona! comedy, melodrama, and dramatic social commentary. 'Teachers', directed by Arthur Hiller and starring a cast offamiliar and audience-attracting characters, offers a pktorial analysis of the state ofour educational system and teachers in general. 

Billed a-; a comedy, "Teachers" discusses the implications sur­rounding a law suit brought against a high St'hool which graduated a student without teaching him to read or write. Nick Nolte portrays the !l'acher who is caught in the middk between the institution · the team· and the traditionalpurpose of teaching. He re-creates his "North Dallas Forty" character-type bucking the system, trying to do what is right. His gruff, somewhat drunken, non-challant portrayal offers the audience a believeable character; he is not stereotyped into "Mr. Clean, the all American teacher." 

His administrative counterpart, the school administrator, played by Judd Hirsch, voices the position of the school district. "I don't care what you think," Hirsch yells to Nolte, "we've got to get them through the system." Uniike Nolte, Hirsch's character ha-; been cor· rupted by the system. lbe law suit, which supplies the supcrfical back· ground for the film, forces these teachers to a'>k "Arc we teachers or merely puppets, gears that run a slowly dying machine?" 
Ralph Macchio, the high-flying "Karate Kid," provides the buffer between the teacher and the insti· tution. He is the student who doesn't need school, the rebel, the trouble-maker. When Nolte finally takes him aside and shows he cares what happens to him, Macchio's character glaringly sheds light upon 
education's conflict. 

joBeth Williams plays the lawyer assigned to deposition the teachers involved in the law suit. She views the suit as an opportunity to change the system which has not been working. But finally when she believes she is about to uncover the truth with Nolte's deposition, the case is settled out ofcourt. The school district and institution have gotten off the hook. The law firm's head tells her, "It's over· it was just another case," but was it? 
One question remains, however. Why was a movie like this made? It could have fallen into a simple comedy focussing on the peculiarities and troubles at this high school, a Ia "Fa<;t Times at Ridgemont High." But, thank god it doesn't. The film asks the questions which have to be asked. Do teach­ers truly teach, and care, or are they merely bahysitters and puppets of the system? 
Many critics have argued that the film's climax arises when a troubled student is shot in the hall during a surprise drug search. The student's frightened face is frozen upon the screen as we hear Nolte yelling, "No!" seconds before the fatal shot. Kneeling over the body, he utters a shattering "why?" 
My feeling is that the film's message is presented a scene later when Richard Mulligan's character, a mental hospital out-patient who manages to sneak into the school as a substitue teacher, is ushered down the same hall once his secret is discovered. Moments before, we watch as he tosses the history book out the window and procedes to dress up as Lincoln, Washington, and Custer, exciting and involving his bored students in the subject for the first time. Walking down the hall, dressed as Benjamin Franklin, he approaches a troubled Nolte, smiles, and soundly states, "I am a teacher!" For the first time in the movie the message has been proclaimed. 
Finally, after the school board realizes Nolte is going to tell the truth in his deposition concerning the non-educated student instead of being part of the team, the board 
tries to fire him. Williams, Macchio,  
and other students confront him  
outside the school arguing that he is  
copping out, that he has a responsi·  
bility to these kids, that he is,  
indeed, a teacher. Asmile comes  
over his ruffied face. "Yea, I'm going  
to fight them. I've got to. I'm a  
teacher!"  
The movie ends, but the question  
remains. It is a sad commentary on  
the school system when a simple  
question and responsibility must be  
portrayed in a comical way to draw  - 
attention to these serious implica­ 
tions. Ask yourselves after you see  
this film (although dearly not an  
award contender, It Is a film which  
should be seen and discussed) how  
many teachers do you know who  
can soundly state "I am a teacher"  
and mean it.  - 
Although exaggerated and  
melodramatic at times to uphold its  
comical background, "Teachers"  
offers the audience a serious com­ 
mentary concerning the most im­ 
portant institution in society. See it,  
laugh with it, but then think about  
it. The film may be trivial in places,  
odd in others, unbelievable at  
times, but in the end · bluntly rc.~alis­ 
tic and shocking.  

-~ 

Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will be 
meeting today at 3:15p.m. at the boathouse. For more information, call john Crilly at 283-3170. In addition, the crew team will be col­lecting money and pledge sheets from the ergothon today and tom017"ow from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. in LaFortune. -The Obseroer 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8887 
WORDPAOCESSING AND TYPING. 272-8827. 
PRO. TYPE Over 14 yra. of experience. Computerized savice. Dissartations, law papen1, student papers 2n-sa33 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
MMEATI MMMEATII UNCOLNI UNCOLN?I? EVERYONE KNOWS UNCOLN WAS A LOVER OF BEEF. 
TYPING Jackie Boggs 684-8793 
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES 
277..o45 
PICKUP AND DEUVEAY 
OPERATION BRAINSTORM 
Ani-Cont•t 
CMhPrtz•l 

• Nov. 12th to 20th 
Appll«*tona •v•l'-ble81 oeuD -k• Dllrby'a 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: GREEN NOTRE DAME JACKET THE WEEK BEFORE OCTOBER BREAK; LAUNDARY TAG SAYS MARC DURETTE; IF FOUND CALL ALISA 4341 
LOST: ND BRASS KEY RING WITH ALL MY KEYS. MARY 2890 
LOST: Black Cr088 pen in 107 O'Shag after 11 :00dass on Thur 11/8 call 2263 or 2245 any time-THANX 
LOST:NAVYBLUE PEA COAT AT2T07 PARTY ON IDA RD. ON FRI. NIGHT CALL DAVE AT 232-0554 OR DROP AT 203 ST.ED'S NO ??? ASKED!!! 
Found a CB jacket on 11/10 call3642 
LOST • 14K GOLD CHAIN BRACELET IN OR AROUND ENGINEERING BUILD­ING OR PARKING LOT. IF FOUND CALL JOAN 287-2831, EXT.17. 
I HOPE WHOEVER STOLE A RED CB JACKET SUNDAY IN 1ST FLOOR Ll· BRARY HAS A VERY GUlLTV CON­SCIENCE. IT WAS A 21ST BIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR MY BOYFRIEND. IF YOUY KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS, PLEASE TURN INTO LOST AND FOUND IN THE LIBRARY OR CALL 2n­4706. NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED. 

-
FOUND-GOLD BRACELET IN FAC­ULTV PARKING LOT THIS WEEKEND. CALL 2n-4706 TO IDENTIFY. 
················································ 
At DiHon tormal on Friday, a small black ITI camera was lost In room 1112 of the Americana.Reward.Mart< at 1728. 
Found: Man's watch found on ACC road between tennis couns. Cal12n-4745 and 

-describe (the watch) to claim. 
································································ 
LOST: One student 10 with a picture of an extremely adorable student on the front. Whoever took my 10 had better return it pronto to 306 Howard. This I 0 has loads of sentimental value. 
LOST:WHITE ANGORA HAT BETWEEN LIB-FARLEY-STEPAN. SENTIMENTAL VALUE!! PLEASE CALL 4093. THANX. 
LOST:GREEN ARMY JACKET OFF CAMPUS. PLEASE CALL 2n-3921. 
WANTED 

Ride needed to St. Paui/Mpls. tor Thanksgiving. Willing to leave early!! (Sunday or Monday) Call Mary at 277­2851. 
Ride Needed:To Rochestor,N.Y. area for Thanksgiven Break. Will share usual ex­penses. Morn's expecting me to carve the turkey so please help !!! Call Basil at 2275 
Do it tor my morn! 

WANTED: Ridenl to No. VA/DC for Thanksgiving. Call MB at 4172. 
ATTENnON: 

C.n •nyona •na-thla ona qu•tton lor me: WHERE DO SESAME SEEDS COME FROM? (•nd don't reply with­
from th• buna) In •na-'ng thla qu­Uon you mu81 notlind the aolutlon In • book, but by I'Kelvlng the •na-lrom 
•" lndlvldu•l. When you llnelly ~ 
._ who kn-thla .,. aww(onca eg~~ln not by h•vlng look8d It up) then J>'-181 me know. Do they 
come from bullh• or traM or ? Thta qu..Uon I• '-d8r th•n you think. P._naply by IMvlng your name 8nd number In th• c:I8MIIIec18. Aemember no onal• to .-..cl the•na-, only dl• COV81' It by word of mouth. Until you lind out, think of 811 of the paopl8 you wiH ~In th18 -ch. 
Need ride to CINCINNAT forT-giving. Can leave TUES.Nov.20.2people. Will share usual. 1 P9f1100 returning sun25th. Terry 4059 
Need RIDE to AKRON/CANTON area or exit11 Rt.80 forT-giving. can leave Tues aftnoon PAUL 4052 
RIDERS NEEDED TO WEST PA!PITIS AREA. LEAVING WED. 11/21 5:00P.M. CALL LISA 1332 
I ciMpanlt8ly nMd • rtcte to Chicago thla ...unci. My brother's apartment hasn't been deaned since the last time I vosited. Can leave after 1 on Friday. Call Margaret272-7864. 
Proofreader Wanted! Prefer Experience. Must be meticulous! Phone 236-8047. 
PLANNING TO GO TO FORT LAUDERDALE FOA SPRING BREAK? WE NEED TWO PEOPLE TO SHARE GAS AND HOTEL EXPENSES. CALL 1720NOW. 
NEED AIDE BACK TO N.D. OVER THANKSGIVING BAEAK.RETUANING FROM PITISFIELD, MASS. ANYTIME SATURDAY NOV.24 OR SUNDAY NOV.25. CALL PAUL AT 2275 BEFORE FRIDAY IF YOU CAN HELP. 
NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI OVER BREAK. CAN LEAVE WEDNESDAY. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL DAN AT 2275 -PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!! 
Riders needed to St. Loufa, leaving Tues. around 4:00, coming beck Sunday. Call Maripat or Jennifer at 277-2851. 
Need rida for two to Can­ton/Columbus/Guernsey Co tor wed.,11/21 call John 284-3167,or Kathy 284-3781 
HELP-NEED RIDE FROM BOSTON TO NO NOV24 OR 25 ED2187 
NEED AIDE! MPLS/ST.PAUL I can leave Tuesday. Please call Sara ]283-3541 
F emala Roornate wanted to share NO Ave. APTS. starting Jan, call Roee 234­8523 or 283-2589 
NEED AIDE TO AND FROM VANDER­BILT UNIVERSITY OR NASHVILLE FOR 11130 WEEKEND CALL MARK AT ANY TIME AT 1638 
Need ride to Pittsburg on Tues., Nov. 20th Please call Diane 5179 
Need riders to Cincinnatti area leaving Fri 16th. CAll Kacey 284-5221 
································································ 
I need a ride to MILWAUKEE on Wed., Nov. 21 will share expenses call Carol at 2801. 
Need rida to Long Island or N.Y.C.Ieaving Tuesday 11/20. Will share expenses. Call Rodat1625. 
W•nted: Bloch8111 tutor. C.ll284-5488. 
FOR SALE 

Aallgfoua Gltt81n Stained Gta.. Individually handcrafted by The Trap­pistines. For more information, write Santa Rita Abbey, Box 97, Sonoita, Arizona, 85637. 
MUST SELL IMMEDIATELY -· COM­PLETE COMPUTER SET-UP APPLE lie (new) Apple lie 64K & monitor; disk drive; Apple Daisywheel letter quality printer, Applewritor lie software, Basic manual, and EC-V surge protector (prevents elct. damage). Total original purchase price was $3455--willing to sell for $3000 or best offer. AVOID LONG DELAYS IN OR­DERING ONE OF APPLE'S MOST VER­SATILE & POWERFUL COMPUTERS. Contact Dr. Dan Rybicki 256-5275 (leave message). 
Commodore MPS 801 dot matrix printer. Used 3 months. Reason for selling-need money!! Contact John Long at Moreau Seminary-239-n35. $190.00 firm. 
FOR SALE n Plym Fury $600 Call Don 3748 
ATTENTION THROATS FOR SALE: Tl Programmable 59 calculator complete with battery pack, Master Library, mag­netic cards, and leather case. List price $255. Best offer. Dave 2002. 
GOING TO CHICAGO FOR BREAK? THE STUDENT ACT.BOARD AN­NOUNCES ITS$100NE WAY FARE TO AND FROM CHICAGO$ OHARE AIR· PORT. BUSES LEAVE N.D. AT 1:30 P.M. ON WED.,NOV.21st AND BRING YOU BACK TO N.D. FROM CHICAGO AT 7 P.M.,SUNDAY,NOV.25th.ITS ONLY $10 EACH WAY AND ITS THE BEST PRICE IN TOWN. SIGN UPS IN RECORD STORE. 
ROSSIGNOL FP 190 COMPETITION SKIS WIT.H SALOMON 727 BINDINGS EXCELLENT CONDITION CALL MIKE 2n-7436 OR 232-2n8 
TICKETS 
PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 
MY NAME IS VINNIE. There, now that the exciting stuff is out of the way, I think you should know that I need two Penn State GA's, preferably before the game on the 17th. Call VINNIE at 2538. That's VINNIE. 
FOR SALE: 6 Penn State GA's in a block;Best Offer Call Eric 1528 
··········································· 
NEED 2 Penn State GA's call Marlha at SMC5120 
I Need 3 Penn State Tickets together. GA or Student. Please call Pattie 284-5087 
Desperately Needed: 3 or 4 G.A.s for the Penn St. Game, will pay cash for tickets. Call Vince 3262 
NEEDED 4 PENN. ST. TICKETS CALL DAVEH.1606 
Help!!! I need Penn St. tickets! call Mark 
at3684 
Need Penn St. tix, GA's or other. Call Dan 287-6262 
PLEASE NEED 2-8 PENN ST. TIX CALL TOM2111 
HELP!!HELP!II DESPARATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA PENN STATE TIX! Call Mary 2890 please• 
NEED PENN STATE GA'S.CALL MEGAN 284-4145 
FOR SALE 2 tix to Penn State. Call 233­2163or234-sna. 
$$$$Need 2 Penn State G.A.s or Student tix. Please call1570.$$$$ 
FOR SALE: 2 GA'S TO THE USC GAME IN L.A. CHEAP!! CALL NANCY x2996 
................................................................ 
NEED PENN STATE TIX call 1103 
NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE I need two tickets for Penn State. They don't have to be together and can be either student or GA. Please call Larry at 1175. Thanks. 
Yo, Richard! 
NMd 80ina tlck818 to Penn s-....four, to be auct. I'll taka 4 atu­clenta, or 2 81Uclenta •nd 2 GAe. Th­guye ... coming from W•t Vlr­glnl•...hev• aymp•thy lor thOM who talk Iunny. Cell Zek• 81 2045. 
FOR SALE: TWO PENN STATE GA'S­CALL MEUNDA AT 283-3716. 
2 USC for sale. 239-5266, 2n-8697. 

Wednesday,_NQvember 14, 1984-page 8 
The ND women's track and field team will be practicing today at 5 p.m. on the indoor track at the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, call Anne at 283-2646, Susan at 283-4286 or Carrie at 283-3826.-The Obseroer 
Club basketball captains will be meeting today at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. -The Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 10 
The Obsert•er Notre Dame ottine. locatnl on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts dassitled advertising from l) a.m. until .j p.m.. Monday through Friday The Obserr•er Saint Mary's offitT. located on the third floor of Haggar Colkge Center. accepts dassifkds from 12:50 p.m. until-~ p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classitieds b -~ p.m. All classitit·ds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge i' I() t·ents per five t·harac­ters cr day. 
NEEDED: 2 PENN STATE STUDENT TICKETS BARB 4096 
NEED 2 Penn State GAs. Jeff 1049 
GIVE IT TO ME BABY' NEED 1-4 STUD OR GA TIX. CALL KEITH 1022 
Need 4 Penn State Tickets. Student or GA Call1250. 
For Sale: 2 Penn G.A.'s 1 Penn Student 2 Hotel Rooms for Fri and Sat-Penn Weekend. Call5055 (SMC) 
NEED TWO PENN ST TICKETS CALL MARK AT 1638 ANY TIME 
NEED 4 Penn St. nx. GUS x1196. 
HELP!! I NEED TWO G.A. TIX FOR THE PENN STATE GAME. PLEASE CALL­JULIE a14354. 
I NEED 4 STUD. OR GA TIX FOR PENN ST., CALL PAT 3055 
If I don't get a whole bunch ot PENN STATE 81Uclent tlck818 soon, tour very large thugs will smash my face in, abuse my lnfonet numbet' with daytime calls to Bangladesh, kill my goldfish and staple thorn to bulletin boards, and Ioree me at gunpoint to listen to Kenny Rogers' Christmas album. If you have any hearl at all, please call GREG at 2532. 
FOR SALE: 4 PENN STATE GA nx TO. GETHEA-ALSO HAVE STUD TIX FOR SALE -FRIENDS COULDN'T COME ­WILL SELL REASONABLE (2n-7570) 
HELP! NEED 3 OR 4 PENN STATE G.A. TICKETS AND 5 OR 6 STUDENT TICK­ETS CALL MARK AT 1688 
NEEDP.S.U.G.A.'SCALLJIM2n-3616 
HELPIII I NEED PENN ST. STUDENT TICKETSIII CALL 4511 FOR$$$$$ 
I NEED PENN ST Go\8.272-6306 
................................................................ 
PERSONALS 
LET THEM EAT CAKE II!! 
LET THEM EATCAKE!!I! 
ORDER YOUR CAKE TODAY FROM NO CAKE SERVICE THRU IRISH GAR­DENS!!! SURPRISE A FRIEND WITH A B-DAY CAKE TODAYIIII 
SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! SCHOLAS­TIC IS COMING! November 15, pick one up! 
SCHOLASTIC Magazine ... it's what Notre Dame needs. Coming November 15. 
FLY TO CAUFORNIA FOR A WEEKEND-or anywhere else in the U.S. One round trip ai~ine ticket for sale -to anywhere you feel like going BUT all travel must be completed by 12/17. Taking best offer. Makes a great gift! Call 1216. 
AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO --CHECK IT OUT! -AM STEREO 
SPECTACLE PARTY 
PREPAAEYOUASP~CTACLES 
"THE WOMEN OF NOTRE DAME" Calendar COMING SOON!!! presented by Holy Cross Hall 
................................................................ 
LUTHER ... !I!!! 
JOHN THOANTON--ATIENTION QUESTION: IS IT NOT TRUE THAT YOU WERE IN HIGH SCHOOL JUST THREE MONTHS AGO? ANSWER: YES QUES­TION: ARE YOU WORTH IT? ANSWER: NO SIGNED, A PREVIOUS HIGH SCHOOL AQUAINTENCE 
INTERESTED IN LAYING OUT THE OBSERVER? Come to •n Introductory tayout IIIM!Ing Thu..ctey, Nov8111b8r 15, •t 7:00 In the ObHrVar olllcee. 
Need ride to CLEVELAND leaving TUES­DAYNOV. 20Call Miriam4174 
PEM·CONGRATULATIONS ON THE NEW TOOTHBRUSH-143 
Q: What do you get when you add the calories in a gallon of water. lhe curves in a square, and all the Morrissey Eunichs? 
A: Nothing. 
FIXX TIX GREAT SEATS 3 4-SALE CALL 2676 
John B-Next time, let the baloon go! 
T.J.-where wore you when I needed you? 
THE CHEAPEST ONE WAY ROUTE TO CHICAGO COSTS ONLY $10 IF YOU TAKE THE STUDENT ACT.BOARD BUSES. LEAVES N.D. WED.,NOV.21ST AT 1:30 p.m. and AND BRINGS YOU BACK TO N.D. ON SUNDAY,NOV. 25th AT 7P.M. SIGNUPS AT RECORD STORE. 
Prince of Wales-"Statistics show"-its not the size, its the motion!! 
Do you do 4? If you do call Kris at SMC 42n 
See Kris, I doed it! 
REAL WOMEN DON'T SLEEP WITH LAMBIE$!!! 
GO NO CREW!!! GOOD LUCK TO OUR NOVICE CREWMATES IN PH ILLY. 
LOGAN CENTER na8C1e STUDENT nx lor PENN ST. Collactlng 81 DINING HALLS WED-FRI. 
Let's go duck hunting! 
Map God, Driving God, & Heartburn God: Whore's Grandma's? Whip-a-tilly! GO FOR IT!I Bafigfiano ... , Shit! "Big Edl· quette", tonsil hockey, feex boo!, gar­banzo beans Chuck? Breakfast in bed? Can't-it's broken! OOPS! Our first jour­nals are ready ... ! Map God: Does the wager still stand? Ouarten1 Queen & An­tenna Breaker 
Tony: Life is n911or 100/ certain. Take a chance--you may be pleasantly surprised! 236 P .S. REM: Friends are forever if you want them to be! 
To You Assor1ed Nuts: Thanks for the party--It made my day. Pete 
NEW YORK: Rider needed to Westchester/Putnam area, leaving 11/19, returning 11/20. Call Ray 1078 or Chad4223. 
......................... ............................... 
SUNSHINE, YJSML UPI AD 
RVOS;;U (hint: Move handa tleft) 
NAPERVILLE, Center of th• Unlv-
I need a human life form to transport me to Naperville, Ill.. whenever convenient. Will share driving and expenses and corporal pleasures, which we of the planet Norgon have heard much about. Call "John" at 2483. 
TOO AND KATHY: CONGRATULA­TIONS ON YOUR ENGAGEMENT!!! 
Tom Mowle, come on down! 
KAREN: HAVE YOU EVER HAD A PER­SONAL OF YOUR OWN BEFORE?? THIS AD'S FOR YOU HONEY!! -SAY HI TO BLACKJACK "OR ME. FRIDAY NIGHT SHOULD BE A RIOT, I'M SURE YOU'LL LOOK ABSOLUTELY ADORABLE. MEET ME AT THE LIGHT, CUTIE.-EARL 
It's just a jump to the left, and then a stap to the right, and then a pelvic thrust over to Stepan Center for 
THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW 
Friday and Saturday, Nov. 16 and 17 
9:30 and Midnight 
$1 Admission Sponsored by the Social Alternative Club 
Let's do the time warp again. 
Whatever happened to Blondie? 
I'll go off the board with Famous Last Words, please, Jack. 
Mary Ellen and Jenny, Give me a call, we've got to get together soon. we can't keep putting it off. 
MaryEllen 
ATIENTION ALL ROLY POLY FISH HEADS!! Its your disease!! Hey Your Don't watch dat, watch dis! LETS WALK'! WE AREy y V Dyy WE AREyy V DyyGO Really, really! Love, KYLE & MATT 
TO THE VARSITY GUY SWIMMERS: How's life in hell this week? Have fun. It's a shame that we can't have the same ex­perience. Have a great season' --THE WOMEN'S SWIM TEAM 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER • LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 

IAMERICAN ~UCANCER fSOCIETY® 

''PURPLE IS NOW MY FAVORITE COLOR." 
YOU WERE LOOKING GREAT. 

THE SAINT LOUIS CLUB IS COMING From the KING of CLUBS comes the best of load. At our concession stand on the New Mall by Cavanaugh Hall, you'll lind us serving only the finest food. We won't be surprised to see Father Ted or the tot­ball team there before they go on to chew on the lions at the stadium. See you Sat., ju~t look for the Golden Arch! 
Missing: common sense and intelligence. If found please return to Mary. 
Did you notice the "Women for Reagan" buttons just before the election ??? How come only fat girls had them on ????? 
Happy 19th, Mimi. Love, Paul 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxll 000000000000000 

PLAY TRIVIAL PURSUIT!!! TRIVIAL PURSUIT MARATHON SPONSORED BY THE JUNIOR CLASS NOV. 14, MIDNIGHT-NOV. 17, NOON IN THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM AT LA FORTUNE PROCEEDS HELP THE SUICIDE PREVENTION CENTER AND HOPE RESCUE MISSION TO PLAY OR SPONSOR, CALL BETH 2798 OR KATHY2673 
KICK THE LIONS! NO vs. Penn St. T­shins available now at Nor1h & South Dining Halls. Only $5.001 Get yours before they're gone. 
I NEED A AIDE loSt. Louis for Thanksgiv· ing. Will pay the usual. Call Maureen at 
1333. 

READY TO MAKE THE MOVE O.C.? A roommate is wanted to share an aparl­ment in Notre Dame Apts. Rent is 105/mo. plus utilities. For an appointment to see the apt. call Sheila at283-3791. 
I need two tickets for Penn State. Please call Barbara at 1346. 
RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY AREA OR BINGHAMTON. CALL ALLISON AT 
4068. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIMI!! HAVE A GREAT DAY!! Love Ya, Joanne 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO. TH 8-11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am 
MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS For sale Friday 3-7 and Saturday 9-12 in Walsh and Farley 
Check out the new MEN OF N.D. CALEN­DARS!!!!!! For sale Friday Nov. 16 from 3-7 and Monday Nov.19 in Walsh and 
Fa~ey. 
Vague sketch of a fantasy Laughing at the sunrise Uke he's bean up all night Ooh, slippin' andslidin' 
Whar a good time But now I'll have ro find a bed That can take this weight 

-The Femmes 
Ul•'•too ahort to be out olluhlon. 
here's ro four more yeers of fescism! 
Missed you yesterday! TG TV 

Not only doeS Mary Sieger have beauty, brains, and breeding, but now she's LE­GAL. HAPPY 21 ST! 
WELCOME Lisa Arrillaga! Great to have you. LLCV. 
IRIS, What are you doing this weekend? Give me a call (4069). TIM O'Conner 
HEY BABE' HAPPY DAY, HAPPY A! "YOU AND ME, TOGETHER WE SHALL BE..." I LOVE YOU. JAKE 
Kazoo, Good luck on Orgo without me! Love, "1000" 
SENIOR CLASS PAATYIII 8t H.I.'S In NIIM THURSDAY, NOV. 15, 9PM-?? Drink Specials! Dancing! 
Heidi, WELCOME, Quite a change from Hawaii, huh!! Stay warm and HAVE A GREAT WEEK HERE AT NOTRE DAME love ya Iii' sis, Kristin 
"I would love an inch of raw mutton better than an ell of fried stockfish.'' 
thel-hmongor reigns• 


The Observer Wednesday, November 14, 1984 -page 9 

IF THERE'S LEADERSHIP IN YOU, OCS CAN BRING IT OUT 
OCS (Army Officer Candidate School) is a 14-week challenge to all that's In you...the mental, the physical, the spirit that are part of what makes a leader. 
If OCS were easy, It couldn't do the job. It wouldn't bring out the leader in you, or help you discover what you have inside. 
But when you finish and graduate as a commissioned officer In the Army, you'll know. You'll know you have what it takes to lead. And you'll be trim, alert, fit, and 
ready to exercise the leadership skills that civilian companies look for. 
If you're about to get your degree and you want to develop your leadership ability, take the OCS challenge. 
Call your local Army Recruiter, and ask obout OCS. SGT Jones 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 



live at the Notre Dame ACC with opening act: 
THE COMA TEENS Friday November 16th 8:00pm 
Tickets on sale NOW at all ACC Ticket outlets and the SAB Record Store in LaFortune 



SObering Advice/ . 
cansavealife;.,~ 1 
Think Before You Drink -~"" 
Before You Drive ...­

• 

a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

JUST ASKANYONE! 
Senior Class 
Party 
at H.I.'s! 
(in Niles, Ml) 
Thursday, November 15 9pm-??? 
$1 00 off any p1zza
$1.00 
One coupon per p1zza 
Off 
Ricci 
continuedfrom page 12 
sive style of play," states Ricci. "I 
don't think the coach is expecting 
me to come out more offensively, 
because that's not my style. But I will 
have to play a little stronger 
defensively." 
More specificly, Ricci feels that he 
must increase his role in making the 
adjustment to college hockey easier 
for the freshmen and younger 
players on this year's squad. 
"We have a lot of young guys playing this year and they are all needed, so they can't be nervous," he says. ''I'm not saying that they haven't been doing a good job. Actu­ally, they have been doing better than we expected. It's just that sometimes they seem to get a little uptight and as a senior I feel that I have to help keep them cool and relaxed." 
Ricci certainly knows the value of 
supportive upperclassmen because 
as a freshman he was able to play in 
31 games and then in another 20 his 
sophomore year. "It's been an honor 
to play with some of the players that 
I have over the years," says Ricci. 
"Guys like Dave Poulin (now cap­
tain of the Philadelphia Flyers) have 
been a big help to me and my career 
here." 
Last season Ricci played in 24 games, but was hampered in the lat­ter part of the season by a dislocated right shoulder which he suffered in December in a game against Lake Forest. Although not quite at full strength, Ricci was able to play in the second halfofthe season, but the shoulder was reinjured in February while playing Alabama-Huntsvile. Ricci had surgery in March and after a full summer to recover, he Is back at full capacity. 
"I used to worry that I would get hurt again," Ricci :>ays. "It was al· ways in the back of my mind. But after working out all through the off­season under the supervision of Gary Wei! and john Whitmer, I don't worry about it anymore. I just don't want to go through again what I went through last year." 
After this year, Ricci would not mind playing more hockey. But get­ting a good job would also make him happy. 
"It's every hockey player's goal to play in the NHL, but If that isn't pos­sible, I would like to be able to put my education to use in a job," says the marketing major. 
More Important to Ricci right now, however, is the remainder of this season. lbe Irish received their first big challenge this past weeekend from Michigan-Dearborn, but by the looks of the schedule, more tough games are in store for the Notre Dame team. 
"The rest of this season will be tough for us," says Ricci. "We have a lot of young people and several key injuries. We'll have to stick together and back each other up. Everybody is very close and ifwe just keep it up we should fair pretty well." 
APTopT-.ty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams In The -~•xo•a••au Press preseason poll, with first-place votes In parentheses. last season's recorda and total points. Points based on 20-19-18·17 etc. Notre Dame ~ponents are Italicized. 
1. Georgetown (55) 34-3 1,248 2. IHinoia (4) 26-5 1,04-4 
3. DePaul (3) 27-3 1,038 4. Indiana (1) 22-9 994 5. Oklahoma 29-5 945 
6. Duke 24-10 848 
7. St. John's 18-12 839 8. Memphis State 26-7 753 
9. Washington 24-7 662 
10. So. Methodist 25-11 646 11. Nevada-Las Vegas 29--6 441 12. Syracuse 23-9 434 
13. N. Carolina State 19-14 395 14. louisiana Slale 18-11 340 15. Virginia Tech 22-13 329 16. Arkansas 25-7 298 17. louisville 24-11 281 18. Kentucky 29-5 280 19. Kansas 22-10 251 20. Georgia Tech 18-11 250 
Other teams receiving votes and thelr poinl totals: North Carolina, 247; Maryland, 92; Virginia Common­wealth, 84; Oregon State, 82; Michigan, 77; Texas· El Paso, 54; Wichita State, 44; Alabama, 37; Vlllan011a, 
37: Houston, 25: Notre Dllma, 24; louisiana Tech, 
21: Iowa. 13; Arizona, 11; Brigham Young, 9: Tulsa. 9; Virginia. 8; Arizona State, 6; Crelghlon, 5; Fultef1on State, 5; Oregon, 5; Auburn, 3; Marshall. 3; Michigan State, 2: Missouri, 2; Ohio State, 2; Old Domlnioo. 2; George Washington. t; La Salle, 1; Oral Roberts. 1; Santa Clara, 1; Wake Forest, 1. 

The Observer Wednesday, November 14, 1984-page 10 
Ends season at 5-1 

Ru_gby Club downs Ball State, 31-0 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI  faculty advisor is Col. John Stephens,  "Most players are not happy with  
Sports Writer  Director of Special Projects. "He is  interhall  football  and  very  few  
there at most practices and has been  played rugby in high school," said  
The  Notre  Dame  Rugby  Club  a big help. He has given us a good  Schneider.  "They  must  have  en­ 
utilized agressive play and excellent  voice in the athletic department and  durance, the ability to kick and catch  
team  execution  as  the  "A"  team  the players admire him."  the ball, and tackling skills.  


Jrefancf 
Information Meeting 
TONIGHT 
6:30p.m. 
232 Moreau Hall SMC NEWCOMERS WELCOME 

Petal your 
Affection 


Dial: 283-4242 ~ Hours:12:30-5:30 0 ~"~~'""{""''~ 
I~;::~~.::~:e b••eGARDENS 
defeated Ball State last Saturday, 3 I­
0. The Irish concluded their season at 5-I, having suffered their only loss against the University ofKentucky at the Indiana Rugby Union Collegiate Championship. 
"The Ball State game was our best performance of the season," said club president Steve Schneider. "We played well against the University of Chicago last week, and we played with the same high intensity right from the beginning last Saturday. 
"Ball State is one of the better teams in the Indiana Rugby Union. They came out to intimidate us early, but they made quite a few mistakes and dropped many balls." 
Notre Dame's first two trys, scores that are analagous to touchdowns and are worth four points, were scored by Paul Perrona. Joe Whalen broke four tackles to account for the third try as he scampered for 40 yards off a line play. Phil Sheridan and J.R. Reid each had a try to finish the scoring. Schneider kicked four conversions and one penalty kick worth three points. ___ _ 
"Rugby is a club sport for social as well as athletic enjoyment. It is a great opportunity to represent Notre Dame in competiton against other schools," explained Schneider. "An elected seven­member council chooses the teams on a week-to-week basis." The club 

Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
All interhall football players must return 
their equipment today between 6:30p.m. and 7:30p.m. at gate 9 of the football stadium. -The Observer 
Women's interhall basketball captains will 
be meeting today at 5 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. ­
The Observer 

The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting 
todayat 7 p.m. in LaFortune. For more information, call 287-8264. ­
The Observer 

Trivial Pursuit Marathon 
Nov. 14, 12midnight-Nov. 17, 12noon LaFortune, New Orleans Room All proceeds go to 
The Suicide Prevention Center and Hope Rescue Mission 
For more info call Beth 2798 
FLOWERS AND GIFTS 

Game Day Corsages starting $195 11,4 mile east of U. Park Mall State Road 23 277-6067 

Don't Let summer 
FADE AWAY • •• 
Maintain that beautiful summertime tan all winter long with our UVA (Ultraviolet type A Light> SUNTAN BEDS -safer than the sun! 
8 
TANNING SESSIONS 


Reg. 3995 
Dally 8-8; sat. 8-6 f 

~1TANNINC 
sun. 10-s 

.SESSION First VIsit $5 value 
® 

Buv•r'• Outlet Mall S901 Grape Rd 272.4036  Scottsdal• Mall Ireland & Miami Ave (Nexlt~~~.=Cafe)  LaSalle Square 937Bendlx 237·9049  

• .. • _..' • • 4 • 4 ' .. ~ • ' . 

'JI['~~C3L~--------------------------------------~--ed_n_e_s_d_a~y-,N•o•v•e•m•b•e•r•l•4•,•1•9•8•4---p·a•g•e•l-l 
Doonesbury 

Garry Trudeau 


Bloom County Berke Breathed 
71fiS lfJ ·~y FOX ON€• TELL I+EIN!Je?b£1?. THAT (](/!( EARS SIN 
TIERE'S If M SIXTH fUU NO 'CAP· ISN'f PrJU£/l /JACK RT THIS fROM THE fMtf!C, 
NUM\--"~Mfot~~~N6.' 
WITH 1H€ SCV!er5 IN IZ M/Nf/17iS .11 
f 
WEU. I.£T'5 .11./STHOff. Ot ' ''CliP" 6t'~5 ME A 
RIN& -mN!OOT. 
q 
The Daily Crossword 
48 Uncle: Sp. 70 Declaim 49 Twos: abbr. 71 Red and 51 Gershwin Dead 
and Levin DOWN
53 '/Ice· 1 inceptionpresident 2 Distinctionlor 59A 3 Literary
56 Drs.' org. 
device59 White House 4 Space org.
name 5 Near
61 Mentally 6 Morearidorthodox 7 Medical64 Epic or portion
fable 
8 Veterans 65 Throw out 9 Horn 66 Skinny 10 Chopper 67 Mine 11 Espy 
outputs 12 Halt 68 Indian city 14 Hagar's 69 Eastern better 
school hall 
Tuesday's Solution 

for late night munchies 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

ACROSS Climb, in a way 
5 Combines 
9 Lawsuit 13 Pentateuch 15 First: pre!. 16 Beasts of 
burden 17 Win by­18 lt. tower 
town 19 Donna or Rex 
20 White House 
name 23 Attempt 24 Vice· 
president lor 20A 27 High priest 
28 Notable 
time 29 Fountain drink 31 Code or 
way 34 Mo. 36 Handwriting 38 Necessary 
(to) 
40 -jacet 42 "Mash" 
milieu 43 Catch 45 High degree 
47 Wire crosshatch 


Campus 
•9 
a.m.. 4 p.m. -University Libraries BookSale, library Concourse, Sponsored by University libra· ries. 

•
3:30p.m. -Seminar, "Nonlinear Characteristics of Two-dimensional, Large Amplitude Tollmien· Schlichting Waves," Dr. Francis Hama, Stuttgart University, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Structural Equation Modeling with LISREL," Dr. Rodney Ganey, Social Science Training Research Lab and Sociology Dept., Room 509 library. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "And After Post-Modernism?," Prof. Kenneth Featherstone, NO, Architecture Auditorium, Sponsored by School ofArchitecture. 

•4: 
1 5 p.m. -Discussion Group , "Arabic Concep­tion of Science," Rev. Goerge Anawati, O.P., Dominican Institute for Oriental Studies, Cairo , Egypt, Room 131 Declo Hall. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Atomic Physics Experiments with Bare ll92tl Nuclei," Prof. Harvey Gould, Lawrence-Berkeley Laboratory. Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Air Force ROTC Foreign Technol­ogy Briefing, library Auditorium. 

•4:30 
p.m.-Reilly Lecture, "Synthesis ofthe Lipid linked Intermediate Involved in Eukaryotic Proteins Glycosylation," Prof. Phillips Robbins , Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•6 
· 10 p.m. -Presentation-Reception, Inland Steel Company, For All Senior BBA, A&L, MEIO and 2nd Year MBA Students, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services , Free. 

•6: 
15 p.m. -Circle K Meeting , Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Peace Prayer Service for Central America, Grotto, Sponsored by Student Organiza· tion for Latin America (SOLA). 

•6:30 
p.m. -Ambrosiana Exhibit Reception & FUm, "Festa Della Arte," Randy Coleman, Medieval Institute, Notre Dame, Snite Museum, Sponsored by Student l.iaison Committee & Snite Museum, Free. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters International, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Freshman Advisory Council, Badin Hall, All Freshmen Welcome. 

•7p.m.-Wednesday 
Night FUm Series, "Naked Spur," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-FUm, "·fne Graduate," Engi· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board. 

•7:30 
p.m. -London Program Discussion, College ofArts and Letters, library Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture,"Building Peace Through the Family and the Rights ofthe Person," Sponsored by Pope John Paul II l.ecture Series, Prof. Douglas Kmiec, NO, little Theatre,l.aFortune. 

•8 
p.m. -Board Meeting, International Students Organization, ISO Lounge. 

•8 
p.m. -Uv Ullmann, Noted Scandinavian Actress, O'l.aughlin Hall (SMC). 


TV Tonight 
21 Exhibitior. lor a buyer 
22 By surprise 25 Church ornament 26 Expecta· 
tions 27 Den 30 Egyptian 

deity 31 Encourage 32 Hindu 
queens 33 Bar 35 Gratuity 37 Gypsymen 39 Isle near Naples 41 Violin part 44 Teacher 46-Scott 50 Desert 52 Having bristles 
54 Good-night 
gal 55-Gr. doctor 56 Of a cer· 
tain line 57 Coffee 58 Those 
against 60 Charles or Burl 
61 Pigpen 62 Exclamation 63 Nothing 

7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30 .m. 
16 M0A0S0H 
22 Dukes of Hazzard 
16 Barney Miller 2 
16 Highway to Heaven 
22 Charles In Charge 
28 Fall Guy 
34 TheBraJn 
22 Dreams 
16 Facts of Life 
22 Special · Ellis Island 
28 Dynasty 
34 Mystery 
16 It's Your Move 
16 St. Elsewhere 
28 Hotel 
34 Masterpiece Theatre 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Movie · The Jungle Book 
16 Toni t Show 

THE GRADUATE 
playing Wed&Thurs, Nov 14& 15 
... a mustfor Seniors. 
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 Engineering Auditorium $1.00 

r 
Wednesday, November 14,1984-page 12

Irish turn back to meat and potatoes 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
The Notre Dame football team's version of fall break is over now, and it's time to get back to business. As amazing as it may seem, Gerry Faust, a man who has had more trials this year than Judge Wopner, is in a position to lead the Irish to a bowl bid. AII the Irish have to do is beat Penn State and USC. That's like saying all Walter Mondale needed was 257 more electoral votes. Still, it can be done. 
The first step in that conquest comes on Saturday when Notre Dame faces Penn State in Notre Dame Stadium. To get to the glitz and glitter of a bowl, the Irish are going to have to survive a roll in the mud with the Nittany Lions. So put away your Izod shirts and Calvin Klein jeans, and get out the old flannel shirt and dungarees. Tell Mr. Hickey to put that quiche lorraine back in the freezer, and put some meat and potatoes on the table. This is the kind of game where the Irish are just going to have ro get 60 minutes of hard work out of

ball wtth headphones on, butshe wears them often an important contributer to the Irish team this enough that her coach and teammates gave her a season. Mary Steger gives a profile ofMorin in her 
everybody. It's not going to be pretty Saturday. Penn State will show up in

new nickname. "Tunes," as she is called, has been story below. 
those white uniforms with the blue trim... you know, the kind your junior high school always used to wear. They're going to have those plain white helmets with a blue stripe down the middle. Joe

Kathy 'Tunes' Morin brings 
Paterno's going to be walking the sidelines in a parka just like you wear to class. Nevertheless, despite the fact they may be dressed as well as the neighborhood tavern's slow pitch softball team, you know Paterno's team will be ready.

talent to Irish volleyball team 
Meanwhile, the Irish aren't looking to win any beauty contests this By MARY SIEGER Morin decided to play for the Irish "I played more for the fun of it in 
weekend, either. They did away with the fancy uniforms at the Sports Writer after declining scholarships to the high school," she says. "Now it's dif­
beginning of the season, and lately, they have done away with the University of Wisconsin, Rice Uni­ferent. It's more challenging and a 
fancy offensive schemes as well. The high-flying passing offense has Freshman Kathy Morin is keeping versity, Kansas State University, lot more demanding." 
given way to using Allen Pinkett as a battering ram behind the offen­things in tune on the Notre Dame Central Michigan University and "We've seen tremendous im­
sive line. As far as the coach, Faust has never professed to be a fashion volleyball team this season. Florida State University because pf provement in the past few weeks in 
plate, and he will come out in his sweats ready for another day at the Nicknamed "Tunes" by her her familiarity with Notre Dame and her overall play," says Lambert. "The 
office. Hopefully, the team will be ready as well. teammates because ofher interest in desire to be part of a growing pro­sky's the limit for her, but it depends 
Both of these teams have had all the consistency of swiss cheese music and omnipresent walkman, gram. on how badly she wants to be a great 
this year. Take Penn State, for example. Here's a squad that knocked Morin adds a unique dimension to "I knew about the program volleyball player." 
off some excellent teams such as Boston College and Iowa, only to the squad. changes and I wanted to be part of 
get shutout by Alabama and barely escape against Rutgers. If you "I got a Walkman as a graduation the process," she says. "I wanted to Morin says she looks forward to 
figure that one out, take your chances on explaining the Irish. How present and I always wear it on the get in on the first floor because I building the volleyball program and 
could a team look so good against LSU and look so bad against Navy? bus," she laughs. "Coach said I was knew I could grow with the program believes Lambert's promises for na­
Now, if you get that one, nominate yourself to run for President in anti-social and started calling me and it's perfect for me." tional recoginition by her junior or 
1988. 'Tunes."' senior year. 
Despite all their inconsistencies, there's plenty to look for from "She's a great personality on a Being a part of Notre Dame and "Playing in the NCAA tournament 
these two teams this weekend, and most of it will take place on the team ofgreat personalities and fits in playing volleyball is a family affair in would be a huge step," she says. "If 
ground. Penn State has been able to survive using a two-pronged beautifully," says Notre Dame head Morin's home. Morin's father and coach says we'll be there in two 
running attack this year. The most prominent Nittany Lion on of­coach Art Lambert. "She's very several of her siblings attended years, we'll be there." 
fense is tailback D.J. Dozier. The sophomore tailback has amassed much her own person." Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College The Irish will take the first step 
578 yards this season, despite missing three games earlier in the But the 5-11 outside hitter adds and her sister Maureen played vol­toward this goal this weekend as 
season. He has received plenty of help from fullback Steve Smith, more than just a musical note to the leyball for the Irish two years ago. they travel to Chicago for the 
who has carried for 355 yards this season, including a brilliant 125­team. She also adds a great deal of "Maureen was the only other one Northstar Conference Champion­
yard performance against Boston College two weeks ago. talent. of my sisters to play in college," says ship Tournament at Loyola Univer­Morin served as captain of her Morin. "It was nice because I knew sity, and Morin's performance will 
For the Irish, there's no question who will carry the load on of­squad during her junior and senior the girls on the team before I got effect where the Irish will finish, ac­
fense. Allen Pinkett, after getting off to a slow start, has been years at Marian High School in Mis­here." cording to Lambert. 
revitalized since the Irish went to the single-back offense against hawaka, Ind., and was named most Despite a slow start early this "She will make a decided differ­
South Carolina. The junior running back from Sterling, Va., now has valuable player by her teammates in season, Morin adjusted well to the ence in where we finish if she hits 
run for 818 yards this season, and Irish fans are hoping he can have 1982 and 1983. Last season, she led pressures of collegiate volleyball and blocks well," says Lambert. "It 
the same kind of day this year that netted him 217 yards in Beaver Marian in spiking and blocking while and continues to dazzle Notre would be great if she could come 
Stadium in 1983. compiling an impressive 93 percent Dame's coaching staff with her abil­through for us because it will add to 
However, this game may be decided by the quarterbacks. Ifthat's serving percentage. ity. our chances." 
the case, the Irish would appear to have the edge, as Steve Beuerlein has had an impressive season throwing the football, completing 60 percent ofhis passes. The major problem with the passing game has been 16 interceptions, and Beuerlein knows he can't afford to make those turnovers against Penn State. Meanwhile, Paterno has had difficulty finding the right man to call the signals. Doug Strang will 
Silent defenseman 

Ricci makes his presence felt on ice 
get the nod on Saturday, after leading Penn State against Boston Col­lege. While his completion rate is a mere 39 percent, Strang has aBy ED DOMANSKY "Some guys have scored more defensive corp his leadership is 

good arm and will test the Irish secondary. Should Strang prove career," says Ricci with a smile, "but "Rob is a real defensive defen­
Sports Writer 

goals in one game than I have in my highly respected. 
unable to get the job done,John Shaffer will be ready to come offthe bench.

All too often the job of a smooth, I'm not worried about scoring. A seman and he thrives on the idea of consistent defense man goes without good hit is just as good as a goal for being conservative," says head 
Overall, though, it appears these teams are well-matched. So, it much notice. Most defensemen me." coach Lefty Smith. "He is a quiet­
may come down to emotions on Saturday, and there will be plenty of don't score a lot of goals or make a In fact, Ricci and his fellow Notre style leader. I think the other kids 
fire in the eyes of the Irish. First ofall, the Irish wish to avenge three lot of stylish moves with the puck. Dame defensemen understand their look up to him because of his unas­
straight losses to Penn State. More important, however, is the fact Certainly their value to the team is 'behind-the-scenes' roles so well suming style. And he does a fine job 
this is the last time the seniors will come charging out of the tunnel. priceless, but many fans tend to that they have established their own with his role." 
They came with hopes ofwinning national titles,. and they have seen overlook these tough, silent soldiers fraternity. Calling themselves "the Ricci's role will most probably in­
those dreams pass in the night. Saturday is a chance to make their ofthe ice rink. 
most lasting memory of their career a pleasant one. 

lunchpail crew," Ricci and his crease somewhat over the next few Some people may even believe "fraternal order of defensemen" weeks because of an injury to his 
While being fired up is important, the Irish cannot allow those that a defenseman's presence should come to "work" everyday, get the defense partner and co-captain, Bob 
emotions to get in the way ofrolling up the sleeves and taking care of not be seen, rather, it should be felt. job done and leave. Thebeau. Thebeau injured his 
business. Ifthe Irish play as they did against Navy1 it will be a long day Notre Dame defenseman Rob "We never seem get the recogni­shoulder this past weekend against 
in the trenches. On the other hand, if Notre Dame puts out a lot of Ricci seems to fit this mold per­tion that the other guys do so we the University of Michigan­
hard work for 60 minutes, Faust and Co. should be able to punch out fectly. The 6-0, 190-pound senior decided to have a little fun group of Dearborn, and the severity of the in­
of the stadium with a victory on Saturday. from Toronto has yet to turn on the our own," he says. "It's kind of like jury has not been completely 
Pick of the Week. .. Football action returns to the Stadium on red light in his three seasons as an really having a job. We come in and 
Sunday afternoon with the interhall football finals. The women take

determined. In all likelihood, Irish player. But when he is on the do what we're supposed to and then though, Thebeau will be out of ac­
to the gridiron at 1 p.m., as Farley's Finest take on the Pasquerilla East ice, opposing players quickly begin just leave as quietly as we came." 
Packers for the undisputed flag football championship of the

tion for several weeks. to find out where he is. All they need 
campus. Afterwards, the men take the field, as Sorin's Mean Machine 

"Bobby leads through his offen­to do is charge one of the corners In Ricci is now in his fourth season as 
tries to hold off the Stanford Studs. It's the best of campus action in the Notre Dame end of the rink, and a member of the Irish hockey team 
the stadium on Sunday, and best of all, it's free! 

see RICCI, page 9 they will meet Rob Ricci. and as the onlysenior member ofthe 





