
·-------------~-._---------~-----~-----~-~-------~----~-------~----·--­
Space shuttle-page 5 

VOL XIX, NO. 7 tj1l· independent ~tudcnt ne\\ ~paper ~en ing notn dame ami ~amt man·~ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1984 

ND will host 1987 Special Olympics 
By GWEN TADDONIO sporting event while also allowing News Staff them to demonstrate their ability to others," said Daniel Harshman, 
Notre Dame will he the site of the director of the St. Joseph County seventh International Special Oiym· Council for the Retarded and a mem­pic Games during the summer of ber of the Olympic organizing com· I987 and Saint Mary's will also he mittee. hosting many of the elimination Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Policastro of events. Pittsburgh, PA, found the Special 
According to Game supporters Olympics to especially benefit their and organizers, Notre Dame was family. Their son, Michael, has been chosen for its outstanding facilities, a participant in statewide games an· low cost, and tradition of athletic nually for several years. competition. Sixty countries will at· The Pollcastros said Michael has tend the ten day event. The Games gained self respect and pride in his are expected to attract some 4000 accomplishments a.'> well a.o; becom· mentally handicapped children and ing aware ofthe importance ofmain· adults a.~ well a.o; I '500 coaches and taining good physical condition. "He ~.:haperones. still shows everyone all his gold 
"It's the kind ofactivity that makes medals," added Pat Policastro. a community proud," said Associate Tom Policastro, a Notre Dame Provost Father Edward Malloy. alumnus, explains the Games' col· Prt:dlcting the games to be one of lege student volunteers, or the higgest events to take place in "buddies", reap many benefits as this area, sponsors expe~.:t close to well. "They got much more out of it 6'5,000 persons to fill Notre Dame than they ever expected.' stadium for the opening . The Games should educate the <:eremonies. Among those in atten­community as to what these special dance will be several prominent Olympians are capable of ac· sports figures, entertainers, and complishing, Harshman said."lt'll politicians from the state of Indiana. definitely open some eyes." Father 'lheodore Hesburgh, univer· Tom Policastro described the event sity president, will preside as by saying, "first or last, just to see 
Pr.<><i.rl~>••t Rob Bertino andStudent Body 1br Obsrrvrr / PhfUp Oer•rr 
honorary chairman of the Games. them coming down the track and 
Vice President Cathy David display afloorplanfor the presidentfor Student Affairs described all thefeatures 
The first Special Olympics were finishing · it's super · it really makes 
renovation of LaFortune Student Center·, which is ofthe newplans to the Student Senate last night. See 
held in Chicago in 1968 when you feel great." scheduled to start this spring. Father David Tyson, vice story below. several former Notre Dame athletes participated In sponsorship. 
Today, athletes play in a variety of 
Tyson unveils LaFortune plans for Senate 
team sports, including baskethall, socn·r, softball, volleyball and two By MIKE MILLEN proposed changes, noting they were ing the project was but "a stepping purposes: to improve relations with forms of floor hockey. Individual StaffReporter all "preliminary designs and stone." He cautioned senate mem· the senate, to improve the senate's ~.:ompetition is scheduled for diving, sketches." "A lot of talking has to go bers that asking for a new set ofplans efficiency, and to facilitate a better howling, gymnastics, and softball The long-awaited S3.7 million on," he added. would be very time consuming. "If working environment. The sI000 throw, to name a few. LaFortune renovation plans were The plans themselves call for doz­we have another committee do an· session wa.o; taught by Sylvester 
Designed to encourage physical unveiled at last night's Student Sen· ens of changes. Some of the addi· other report, it will be a year or two" 
exercise and health among the men· ate meeting. tions include opening pizza and until the rough drawings are ready, Covington, director ofstudent activ· tally handicapped, the Games try to According to Father David Tyson, sandwich shops, moving University he stated. ities at Daytona Beach Community give young athletes a healthier vice president for student affairs, the Hairstylists and barber ROTC Joe In other matters, Student Senator College. Healy said the general con· regard for themselves....Inc games drawings were the first step in the into the building, and adding 3000 Tom Abood reported that prospects sensus of those attending was that provide the athletes with the oppor· three-part plan for a renovation of sqaure feet of dining area. A wide· look very good for opening a the experience was postive and tunlty to perform in a first da.~s the student center. He explained the screen television will be put in a sep· campus T-shirt store. He explained somewhat helpful. 
arate area of 1200 square feet, while the shop would "make silk screen Bertino suggested the senate suh·
the game room will remain un· shirts of a quality like a ject itself to two evalutaions this se·
changed. (professional) shirt shop," adding al­The time schedule, according to though "the prices would be very

Ticket procedures to 
mester. The first would be a Tyson, provides for project comple· competitive, the appealing factor is 
subjective critique in which senate members would grade each other.
tion In August of 1986. Assuming the having it on campus." Abood esti·

change next season 
current rough draft is approved, the mated the store could be opera­The second evaluation would be ob·final revision will be ready in ap­tional "within a few weeks," with a
By KEITH HARRISON,Jr. give them their senior tickets," he jective in nature, consisting of ea~.:h
proximately four to six months. Bids startup cost ofabout $2800.
SeniorStaffReporter said. member's attendance, achieve· 
·will then be accepted, and construe· The details of the forthcoming
Bobinski said the mix-ups were ments, and other recorded informa·
tion should begin in April. During food-sales classes and inspections
Due to this yt·ar's football ticket corrected when students "brought tion. This report would be published
released by Dan McNamara,
mix-up, changes will be made in us a simple, handwritten note from the summer of 1985, the building were in The Observer. Student Body Vice will be closed for the major struc· student senator. "In order to avoid
next year's ticket applications, ac· their dean" identifying them as President Cathy David cited the
tural renovations. Thereafter, the the food-sales fia.'!co of last year, we
cording to Ticket Manager Mike seniors. need for such an evaluation system:
building will remain open. hve established a food sales
Bobinski. "Most of the students got seats in Senate member Pat Browne ques· workshop," he said. Notre Dame's "students should know if the stu­"We plan to make it perfectly the senior section, but unfortun· Environmental Health/Saftety Spe·
clear if the student's class year as in· ately, they will not be sitting with tioned Tyson about the possibility of dents who are representing them 
an undergraduate club. Tyson ex· cialist Michael McCauslin will con·
dicated on the application is wrong, their friends." are actually representing them." the student should immediately ~:or· "I got tickets at the end of the plained that the philosophy ofthe ar­duct the workshop, which will take Bertino added the critiques would 
chitects was not to make a room or place on the day of the Michigan·
rect it," said Bohinski. "We may have senior section," said Kevin Finger, "show students what their leaders the student simply cross out the one of the seniors involved in the structure that would take S 1 00,000 State game. are doing." mistake, or we may require some mix-up. "Mike Bobinski held them 
to change but to rather make anum­McNamara suspects either the 
In other matters, David an·
ber of multi-function rooms. "The manager or an employee of eachkind of verification of his true (the tickets) for me after I talked to nounced that an "Adopt-a-Transfer"ballroom should be multi-purpose," hall's food-sales will be required to
statu~." him." 
program would be starting. Execu·
he said, adding "the use of this attend the workshop in order for the tive Coordinator Doug Wurth re· A numher ofseniors had difficulty When asked why football ticket 
picking up thdr foothall tickets be· distribution is still done by hand, facility (the Senior/Alumni Club) hall to be become certified. It was ported the Faculty Course 
cause they were incorrectly identi· Bobinski replied, "We don't have a could also be looked into." unclear as to whether an uncertified Evaluations were being processed
Not everyone was pleased with hall can operate food-sales.
fled as juniors. computer in the Athletic Depart· "When a student presents his I.D., ment at present. A review of the the proposal. The plans are "Either one or two unannounced 
and the final statistics would be
"inadequate" and "won't solve the inspections" will take place duringwe go through an alphahetical file entire ticket operation was just done 
ready before Christmas. It was an· which lists the student's class year," by an outside firm, but I think we are problem" said Judical Board Chair· the year, McNamara continued, 
nounced the lottery for 300 tickets 
said Bohinski. "When some students still 18-24 months away from com· man Joe Zahn. Student Body Presi­saying McCauslin would also be re· to the Michigan State football game 
were liMed a.~ juniors, we had the puterization," he said. dent Rob Bertino countered by sponsible for these. registrar run a print out that gave the "I realize it (the ticket distrlbu· saying "it (the plan) is not meant to Student Senator Paul Healy sum­would be September 6. It will take students' status a.o; ofAugust 23. tion method) is antiquated, but it's be a solution... simply a step in the marized the Senate Leadership place in the <;tudent Govern· Some of the students were still still the best we can do under our right direction." Retreat, which took place Septem· ment/Student Activities Board listed a.o; juniors, and so we could not present system," Bobinski said. Tyson agreed with Bertino, add· ber 25. He said the retreat had three Offices. 
The Observer Tuesday, September 4, 1984-page 2 


In Brief ·· In defense of Roemer 
Dr. Donald Downs, assistant professor of govern­ment and international studies, has received the American Political Science Association's 1984 EdwardS. Corwin Award for the best doctoral dissertation in public law. Downs' dissertation, entitled, "Freedom, Community and the First Amendment: The Skokie Case and the Limits of Free Speech," was accepted by the University of California at Berkeley in 1983 for his doctoral degree in political science. A revised form is scheduled for public tion inJanuary 1985 by the University of Notre Dame Press. -The Obseroer 
"State and Campus: State Regulation of Religiously Affiliated Higher Education," by Law Professor Fernand Dutile, and Edward McGlynn Gaffney Jr., James P. Bradley visiting professor of law at Loyola School in Los Angeles, Calif., has been published by the University of Notre Dame Press. In the book, Dutile and Gaffney, both attorneys, analyze the effects of current state laws on private, religiously affiliated colleges and universities. -The Obseroer 
An off-duty policemanused his own car to cut off a hit-and-run driver ~o had struck an 8-year-old boy and dragged him 580 feet down the street, pinned under the car, police in Los Angeles said. Officer Alfredo Magallon of the Southern California Rapid Transit District saw the car hit the boy and drag him down the road Sunday, said police Sgt. Frank Lucero. Magallon stopped the driver, then held him until other officers arrived, Lucero said. The boy was not identified and County-University ofSouthern California Medical Center officials declined to comment on his condition, but Lucero said "the child will live." Walter Lopez, 26, of Los Angeles, was booked for investigation offelony hit-and-run and driving under the influence ofalcohol. -AP 
A 28 year-old printerbeat giant odds to win the big­gest lottery jackpot in North American history -a $40 million prize that means $2 million a year for the next two decades. Michael Wit­tkowski, of Chicago, said yesterday he "jumped up and screamed" when he realized he had won the Illinois State Lottery's Lotto game. Wittkowski, who works for a check-printing company, was the only player who picked the six winning numbers-02-03-10-26-30-43­after a week offrenzied ticket-buying by people from as far away as New Jersey and California. He told reporters at a news conference that he had no immediate plans for the money, except "paying off a few bills." He said he plans to return to his printing job tomorrow, where he earns between $20,000 and $25,000 a year. "It's beyond me" to visualize the $40 million jackpot, he said. "It hasn't sunk in yet." -AP 

0£ Interest 
Angela Athletic Facilityis the place to be tonight from 8 to 10 p.m. for all Saint Mary's students interested in joining clubs or otheractivities. Student Activities Night is sponsored by Student Activities and Student Government. Club members are asked to set up booths by 7:30p.m. -The Obseroer 
A "Community Briefing for Clergy and Religi­ous," will be sponsored by the United Religious Community of St. Joseph County tonight at 7 in the lower lounge ofMoreau Seminary. The occasion is designed Jo give resident clergy and those new to the area an opportunity to meet informally and be briefed by a vari­ety ofcommunity representatives. -The Obseroer 


Weather 
Partly sunny and cool with highs near 70. Tonight, partly cloudy with a 20 percent chance of showers and lows in the upper 40s to around 50. To­morrow, partly sunny and cool with highs in the upper 60s. -AP 

Today's issue was produced by:

The Obsel'Nel'­
Design Editor ......... Thomas Robert Small 
Design Assistant..... Lisa Marie Visingardi The Observer ( l 'SPS 'i\l\) l-.jOOO) is 

Typesetters .................... Kevin andjennifer
puhlish~d Monday through Friday and 
News Editor............................ Tess Guarino
on homl' football Saturdays. t'Xn:pt 
Copy Editor ................................. )ulie Smith
during exam and vacation pcriod~. The 
Sports Copy Editor .......... Theron Roberts
Observer is puhlish~d hy lh~ >ludcntsof 
Sports Special Layout...............Jeff Blumb
tht· t:nivt'rsity of NtHrl" Dame and Saint 
Viewpoint Layout.................... Dave Grote
Mary's Collt:gt:. ~uhst:riptions may he 
Viewpoint Copy Editor.......... Katie Doyle ND Day Editor .................. Barbara Stevens 
purchased for Sl'i pn y~ar (51<; p~r 
M.·mc:stt·r) hy writing The Observer, SMC Day Editor ........................ Shirley Ore
P.O. Box Q, Notrt·llam~. Indiana 46'i'i6. The Observer i~ a ml·mbt:T ofThe As­
Ad Design ................................ Susan O'Hare Pbotograpber ............................Phil Deeter
sociated Press. All reproduction right' 
an· ft."St:'rVt."d. 
So the administration was serious after all. 
Sort of figured they were all along. No one ever 
Tom Mowle 
smiled when they were talking about the proposed al­cohol policy, not while it was being proposed and cer­
Assistant News Editor 
tainly not once it was engraved into the Official University Policy. 
But no one really expected it to go through. Every Inside Tuesday one was hoping to come back in the fall to hear "Just kidding, boys and girls. You can have your bars back, and your parties, and your happy hours. Just be good back to the committee with directives before anything and try to keep out oftrouble." was announced." Maybe it's not so surprising he lost his 

No, they weren't kidding. The administration never job. meant to back down. They've taken it even further than If he and the old Office of Student Affairs personnel anyone expected with the raids on many off-campus had stayed on, things might be different this year. Last parties over the weekend. Not that any connection be­year, Commitee Chairman Father William Beauchamp tween the two will ever be admitted, not that there's said the committee's work ended with the report, and even anything wrong with the South Bend Police De­implementation would be left to Student Affairs, partment enforcing the laws they're sworn to uphold. Roemer in particular. Ofcourse, a committee member, But given the infrequency of such raids in the past, it Father David Tyson, now heads that office. It is staffed doesn't take a smarter-than-by men and women Tyson 
the-average Domer to find a (c2 n.....JJ picked himself. 
link between the crackdown 
(t]\ ~ ~ l5 t:JV{t A5'l ~ ~ This is ?otto sa~ there is on campus and that off \fU l5 Lfll W ($ 0 0 some evtl consptracy to campus. n I?: c:;? • s p a 0 0 ()prevent students from 
The first hint of trouble ~ 6 U ,. 0 having fun. Tyson would not was the firing of Dean ofStu­be a surprise pick as replace­dents James Roemer. Shock-ment for University Presi­ingly, many students dent Father Theodore considered his dismissal where 1·s Hesburgh, who is scheduled praiseworthy. It was not. 7 to retire in the next few · Roemer had the kind of job e-ver y~e · 
years. It is logical he would that will never win have a lesser post first. The popularity contests, but he new Student Affairs staff may did not "hate students." be as good as or better than 
Roemer made policies ac­the old. Only time will tell. cording to the guidelines True, "Dean of Students" (
given him by his superiors. was much easier than 
They were issued in his T dcM '-/-believe if. "Associate Vice President name, but were not really 
Tkt!y rellll/ ditJ it. for Re~i~ence Life," but 
his. His job was enforce-V that's tnvtal. ment. Although the campus seemed like a morgue last Think back, upperclassmen, to the outrageous weekend, things are bound improve. It will take time 
directive issued by Roemer last April 18. It included and effort before students find alternatives to drinking. such rules as"...the total number ofpeople in one room Some of the changes over the summer were good: at may not exceed four ( 4) persons or two ( 2) times the least they made the report more consistent. The new number of students assigned to sleep in that suite, alcohol policy still promotes closet drinking, but don't 
whichever is the greater number. Private parties in tell Tyson. private rooms, even without beer and wine, shall not As student leaders have said, the policy is a dead exceed these same number limitations unless prior ap­issue. The men and women who wrote the policy have proval from hall staff is obtained." moved up in the administration; their views are certain 
Yeah, right. His directives also included permission to become entrenched. Roemer and the other officials to have kegs on Green Field before football games. were sacrificed to make way for the new. There is, as Think about what happened to tailgaters. Recall that Beauchamp put it so eloquently last spring, "nobody" to this ban was created after Roemer's dismissal. whom we can appeal. So now,let's learn to live with it. 
Roemer's directives caught the committee off guard. There's no alternative. One committee member said the committee was upset 
The views expressed in the Inside column
with the timing of his directive's release: one day after the release ofthe report. Provost Timothy O'Meara said, 
are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­"There's been an understanding that Roemer would go sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
Keep School From Getting Boring. 



GARRET ELECTRONICS 
Put some excitement in your life. 
We repair all makes of stereos and VCRs
Visit Skyports Unlimited, Inc and 
learn to fly in just one hour. Be­
We sell all makes of stylii (needles)' 
come a Paraplane Pilot, exper­
3318 Mishawaka Ave. 234-3739
ience the safety of a parachute and 
the freedome of flight of an Ultra­
light. 
20 minutes from campus 
SKYSPORTS UNLIMITED, Inc. 
Route I Tyler Road 



PROFESSIONAL 
Walkerton, IN 219-586-2663 

BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to immediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 

* Systems inventory management 
* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management





DROll 
Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance· ment.

DRillII 
Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S.
lSI 
citizenship a must. Age limit 29. Call Navy Toll Free

CRIMIIIL 
1·800-382-9782
IFFElSE 
Navy representative on campus Oct. 10 & 11
It's no accident 
at the Placement Office 

The Observer 
We are only minutes from campus 
QCoer...ccr...o--~....oocoooooooo....oQ'"'~ 
*••·················
~ There will be a MEETING ~* for all those interested in * 


: Features ~ 
~writing or page design for The Observer~* Wednesday, Sept. 5 at 7 p.m. ** in the Observer office * 
*Writing topics include record, movie and concert lt
*reviews, human interest articles, and humor columns.* 
Take that 
~ For more information contact Mary Healy at the ~ Student Activities night brought out a variety ofclubs photo above, TaeKwonDo Club members Rob McGee to Stepan center last night. Freshmen and upperclas· and Dan Mischke demonstrate what their club is all
lt Observer office, 239·5313. * 
smen alike were able to sign up for a wide range of about. clubs, ranging from athletics to academics. In the
******************** 

TUNE IN TO WVFI-AM 64 TONIGHT 7:30-8:00 p.m. 
for 

a press conference featuring members of the administration who will answer questions posed by various members of the NO campus media 
SPONSORED BY: ' 



LIVING OFF CAMPUS?? 
NEED A WASHER/DRYER?? 


NO INVESTMENT!! 

We provide the washer, dryer installation, delivery, service &parts 
CALL NOW WHITMER SALES & SERVICE 
234-5031 

~.co--....c.ccc--~..r...o-""....co--JCY~ 

()(J § Mondaleand 
t5'~ All interested performers, 
I
(1. musicians, technicians, Ferarro hit 
(t;~ and choreographers 

Wisconsin 

§f1r shenanigans § Assoclated Press 
Notre Dame's 
I ~ MERRII.L, Wis. · Walter F. Mondale and Geraldine Ferraro8 staged a Labor Day kickoff for their 
will be holding an informational meeting Democratic campaign for the White ~ House by labeling Ronald Reagan as 
Singing & Dancing Ensemble 
TODA\' 

§ a man of "ley lnditference" and as­
7:00 p.m. 242 O'Shag S king voters to elect a president who 
I 
§ "tells the truth." "I don't believe a president should 
I ~ 
Stop by our booth at Student Activities Night 
just serve all the people In his

I
on Monday 
country club," Mondale said as he 
declared anew his determination to

~ Auditions will be 
overcome the odds and win the ~ Monday and Tuesday, Sept. 10 & 11 
s 
election. "I believe a president should serve all the people in the 
country."

~~J'"~.AXY'"~O:IOCIOCIOCM! 
Ferraro, campaigning with Mondale, said, "You want a leader 

Made In Hollywood. USA 
who rolls up his sleeves, tells the truth and works by your side for a better future, and that's what you'll get in Walter Mondale." 
Mondale and Ferraro have traveled extensively since their

presents 
nomination at the Democratic Na­tional Convention In July, but they treated Labor Day as the traditional

THE O~IGINAL 
campaign kickoff it is · arranging joint appearances on both coasts


MOVIE POSTE~ EXHI~IT 
with a visit to the nation's heartland in between.

AND !ALE First, they marched in a Labor Day parade in nearly deserted midtown Hundreds of original movie posters Manhattan, and arranged to fty to 
and memorabilia from the silent 
California after their appearance at an enthusiastic rally at a county

days to the present. 
fairgrounds in Wisconsin. "On Nov. 6, elect a president who

WHEN: TODAYTHRU SEPT. 7 
wlll level with you" about the na· tion's problems," Mondale said. WHERE: BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER "Let's tell the truth about the future." 
Browse through our tine selection of movie posters. T.V. and movie scripts. lobby cards. and much, much morelll 



Correction

DON'T MISS IT!! 
The sponsor of the Beach Party at St. Joseph Lake this past Saturday,

Including such hits as ... Gone With The Wind Purple Rain was Incorrectly reported In yester· 
Indiana Jones and The Gremlins day's paper. The correct sponsorTemple ol Doom Dune 
was Non-Varsity Athletics. 

Star Trek Ill: The Search lor Spock And Hundreda Morell 

The Observer 
Observer/~ Deeter 

Dave Bergman, the Libertarian Party's presidential nominee, spoke last night to an audience in Washington Hall. Bergman described hisplatform and hisparty's policies to the crowd. He also spoke of the differences between himself and his two opponents, President 
THE STUDENT·ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (SARG) 
is expanding1its membership. SARG, a liaison group between the students and alumni, is looking for sophomores, juniors and seniors who enjoy interacting with alumni, students and the University community. 
Interested students should contact JEANINE GOZDECKI AT 283-2670 no later than September 1 0 
••••••••••••••••••••.
~ 


~ Attention Seniors!! ~ 
~ ~
• *.
• Senior Informal registration begins • ~ Thursday, September 6 • ~ 12:30 • 2 and 6 -8 ~ • in LaFortune Lobby • 
t * ~ 
~ Spend Sept. 28-30 in the Windy city ~
• 

Hey Mate! 
.Ihe Qbsener_ needs you. The news department is accepting applications for 
• Copy Editor 

For more information 

contact Dan, Sarah or Anne 
at 239·5313. Applications 
are due Thursday at 5 p.m. 

Tuesday, September 4, 1984-page 4 

Libertarian criticizes opponents 
By MAURA MANDYCK StaffReporter  will be an "intergenerational con­flict of monumental proportions."  plain the difficulty American manufacturers have in competing in  
David Bergland, the libertarian  "For everyone who is concerned  foreign markets.  
candidate for president, began his  with personal liberty," Bergland  Free trade would, according to  
speech last night with the quote, "it  said, "the Libertarian party is their  Bergland, help lesser developed  
is more blessed to give than to  champion. We will always take the  countries "withstand the pressures  
receive." "Now if I was Reagan or  side maximizing personal liberty  of Marxists and the appeal of Mar­ 
Mondale," Bergland continued,  and responsibility." "But," he cau­ xism wo1:1ld be lessened.·  
"that would mean that I was going to  tioned, "utopia is not one of the op­ Negotiations with the Soviets  
raise taxes."  tions. It simply is not available."  over nuclear arms reductions are, in  
To illustrte his party's viewpoint,  "I want to free you from the  Bergland's opinion, "bogged down  
Bergland quoted the journalist  spectre of poverty and war,"  by an insistence on absolute equality  
William White, saying, "Liberty is  Bergland said. His foreign policy is  in nuclear reductions." He insisted  
the only thing you cannot have un­ three-fold, including neutrality, free  we can improve the security of the  
less you give it to others." "That is  trade, and nuclear arms reduction.  American people by reducing nu­ 
what the Libertarian party is all  He called the two-party system a  clear arms. If the Soviets didn't do a  
about,"he concluded.  "fraudulent myth. Does anyone  single thing, we would still be better  
The 49 year-old candidate ad­ think that there.is really a significant  off."  
dressed many issues, including the  difference between (the foreign  The elimination of all land-based  
"misnamed and fraudulent" Social  policy of) the two parties~:· ~ergl~nd  missiles would still leave submarine­ 
Security system. Bergland, who will  feel§ there has been a btparusan  carried and bomber-carried missiles  
be 65 in the year 2000, says,"I don't  "bipartisan policy of interven­ for retaliatory purposes, Bergland  
expect anything to be left of the  tionism which has been a disaster for  said. Bergland said he would invite  
bankrupt Social Security system in  the American people." He criticized  the Soviet premier to this country  
the year 2000.1t just isn't there." He  the military spending in Europe and  and with him "watch while one U.S.  
asked the audience, "How secure do  said the "average citizen in Germany  missile is taken out of the ground  
you feel about Social Security?"  or Japan pays less for the defense of  and dismantled." It would then be  
Bergland predicts as the elderly  his country than his American coun­ 
become a majority in society, there  terpart." He added this might ex- see BERGLAND, page 5  


HERFF JONES CHALLENGES HIGH GOLD COST! ... AND.YOU WIN! 
SAVE NOW ON GOLD . RINGS I 
REASONS TO WEAR A HERFF JONES RING: 
1) Six week delivery 
2) Once a month ordering for your convenience 
3) Diamond setting for quality enhancement 
4) No DEPOSIT 
5) lOK and 14K gold available 
6) FOUR ring styles to choose from 
7) Indiana based company 
DATE: September 5 TIME: 9:00 to 4:00 PLACE: Saint Mary's College Bookstore DEPOSIT REQUIRED: None 
Present this ad and save an additional $5 on ring day! 

The Observer 

Tuesday, September 4, 1984-page 5 

Ice proves an obstacle for space shuttle crew 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL,Fia. · Violent shaking didn't work and sunshine didn't help, so NASA experts looked for other ways yesterday to get rid of the two lumps of ice stopping up the toilet drain on space shuttle Dis­covery. 
One of the options was to have two of the crew members go out of the cabin on Tuesday and knock the ice off the side, and mission control sent word to the shuttle to lower the pressure in the cabin in case that becomes necessary. 
"We've determined we're going to have to take a harder look at the ice column on the supply water valve," the astronauts were told. "We haven't made up our mind which procedure to use but obvi­ously ... if that was going to be done tomorrow, we'd have to start tonight." 
Lowering the cabin pressure would purge the space walkers' bodies ofnitrogen so they would not
Hi Dad! 
suffer the bends during their walk. If 
for the launch oftheirsecondsatelliteFriday. Looking
Shuttle Discovery mission specialist judith Resnik, a walk becomes necessary, it would on theprintingjob is commanderHenry HartsfieldJr.
left, making the sign she shows at right. It was a be done by Steve Hawley and Rich-
messagefor herfatherfrom spaceas the crewprepared 

If you're in Science or Engineering, chances are your classes include Calculus, Physics, or Chemistry. Engineering Statics, or Dynamics. You're running up against some tough calcula­tions, with statist:cs problems, hyperbolics, and logs. The HP-llC calculator helps you breeze through those problems with a few simple keystrokes. 
Need to simplify problems that are even more complex? The HP-41CV gives you 128 built-in functions-and the HP-41CX over 200-to sim­plify your long homework assignments. Use up to 6,437 bytes of memory to save the programs and formulas you use often. And there are thou­sands of software programs, so you don't have to start from scratch next term. 
If you're in Business or Finance, you're proba­bly taking Accounting, Statistical Methods, Finance, and Investment Analysis. Classes loaded with tedious calculations. End the pencil­and-paper drudgery with the HP-12C. The most powerful decision-maker on the market! Dedi­cated keys make time value of money calculations, amortization, Net Present Value (NPV), Internal' Rate of Return (IRR), and statis­tics solutions 2s simple as a single keystroke. And it's easy to change values or correct mistakes without reentering your entire problem. 
ard Mullane. 

Earlier, flight director Randy Stone said the problem was not believed serious enough to warrant a space walk. 
The crew, meanwhile, finished all 14 ofits detailed engineering tests of a 1 02-foot solar panel and a NASA spokesman said "there are some mighty pleased folks" in the control center. 
The manufacture of a hormone, however, ran into more equipment problems and officials said they ex· pected industry engineer Charles Walker -whose only job on the shuttle is to produce the drug -to bring back just 80 percent of the amount they had hoped for. 
McDonnell Douglas Corporation, Walker's employer, has closely guarded the identity of the drug and what it's for. But during a televised tour of his operation Monday, the engineer offered a clue. 
He said the device "is separating biological substances that we hope to produce for physicians to treat il· loesses and maladies on Earth that haven't been treatable before." 
Bergland 
continuedfrom page 4 
the Soviets' rurn. 

Hergland commented on his op­
position by saying "the actual con­
duct of Mr. Mondale at his own 
(Democratic) convention indicates 
his true position." In reference to 
Reagan, Bergland said, "I heard his 
rhetoric in 1966 when he was run­
ning for governor in California." 
After Reagan's election, Bergland 
said, taxes o and the size of the gov­
ernment increased in spite of 
Reagan's promise to reduce both. 

Reagan also referred to the draft as "involuntary servitude" but felt its abolition would send a message to the Soviet Union. "That message (that Reagan did send) is that Reagan agrees with the basic prem­ise of Communism, that the people must be enslaved to serve the purposes of the statc,"Bergland said. 
"Do you think the purpose ofyour vote then is to make a choice be­tween the lesser of two evils?" Bergland asked. The purpose is actu­ally, Bergland maintained, to "try to influence the policies of those people who end up in office." 
Bergland answered questions fol­lowing his speech. One student asked him if the Libertarians would still oppose criminal penalties for abortion ifthe fetus could be proved to be fully human at conception. Bergland responded "it is still her pregnancy, " a viewpoint based on the premise that "each person owns his or her body." When asked whe­ther it is part of the American re­sponsibility as a "leader of the free world" to help combat the expan­sion of Communism, Bergland responded, "I don't know that there is a free world. All governments are oppressive. America can take the lead and improve conditions of freedom in the world by becoming a free society ourselves." 
Bergland concluded by saying,"we're all in this together. I think I'll see some of you in the bat­tle with me." 
Hewlett-Packard calculators. They help you work smart this term. And next term. And even later on the job. Get your HP today from your 
II
§ Bu.v §local HP dealer. 
IOoserverl 
For the location of the dealer nearest you, call TOLL FREE 1-800-FOR-HPPC. 
Ff/OW HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
L::~::J 
~i~~~_()__i_Il___t_______________T_ue-sd-~,_se-pt-em-be-r4_,1_98-4--pa-ge-6 


Election coverage has lost sight of its purpose 
It was bound to happen ... Democrats, like the Republicans, will use 
Ingenuity ·has surrounded us with an en­skilled professionals to stage-"media events" velope of space-age communication technol­to carefully manicure the news as much as ogy, spinning us around the world in an possible, tailoring messages to specific seg­experience of sights, sounds and ideas. No ments of society and commanding maximum more effort is required to participate than the broadcast exposure. twist ofa television dial or the flip ofa page. • Candidates are painfully aware of the 
But media specialists (and in many in­necessity offitting into the electronic milieu. stances, consumers) have become so In a recent interview, former presidents Ford, enamored with the process of communica­Carter and Nixon agreed that Mondale is as tion that they have lost sight of its purpose: much a remnant of the old political style as they have confusedfonn withfunction. The Reagan is the consummate product of tube­wise commmlication. Nixon went so far as to proclaim a candidate who honestly and forthrightly presents himself and his views
Chris Robinson 
without ,playing the media game a "sure loser."
guest column • We Suy into the scene by sitting back and letting all ofthis happen. We too often accept, at face value, superficial, sensational and glare of exposure not only illuminates sub­sometimes distorted reporting. And we cheer jects being covered -it shines inward upon for candidates who manipulate electronic the media themselves. tools more as a means for building con­
Therein lies the problem: in this election stituencies than for informing the electorate. year we suffer, quite frankly, from system So what? Do we sit back and drink it in or overload in political information in general work for a better system? and presidential elections in particular. May I suggest that you ask yourself the fol­
Consider these facts about those currently lowing questions: Do you expect, during the fighting for their share ofthe media pie: next 60 days, to have more information about 
• 
NBC, CBS, and ABC make major commit­presidential candidate -after all the news ments of resources to coverage of national reports, analyses, proposed debates, ad­conventions. They do an admirable job of vertisements and hype -than you have now? keeping us in touch with stream of events On election day, do you think you will across the convention floor and around the really know candidates who are asking for host city. The sweepstakes winner (judged as your vote? Will you have an inkling of how doing the overall best job by media critics, ed­they might handle crucial issues facing the na­itorial writers and other observers) is widely tion for the next four years (education, health expected to lead the ratings for the evening and welfare, the unborn and the elderly, na­news during the following four years. Higher tional defense, the continuing vitality and new ratings usually result in premium prices challenges of the economy, national energy charged advertisers for spot announcements. policies, the environment, international 

• 
The candidates themselves provide grist finance, and preservation and enrichment of for the mill with increasing dependence on the arts, to name a few)? specialized media consultants and production Will you besupporting someone, or simply firms. President Reagan relied on an IS­endorsing the lesser of two evils in terms of minute video tape highlighting his ac­presidential preference? complishments during his first term as an And, perhaps most important of all, what introduction to his acceptance speech in Dal­are you going to do about it? las. The tape, made by the producer of the Pepsi commercials on lV, is reported to have Chris Robinson is a doctoral student in cost approximately $800,000. Millions will be sociology at Notre Dame and holds under­spent by both parties for television ads, radio graduate and graduate degrees in mass com­spots, and newspaper spreads. The munication. 


A few simple jokes 
This past weekend, the president of Regina not let anyone defame your name or that of Hall and her roommates introduced me to a your school. You are different from Notre friend oftheirs. Her name was Mary A. Doctor, Dame, but thrive on that difference. your typical Saint Mary's sophomore cur­Consider Notre Dame an asset, not a neces­rently seeking an M.R.S. Degree. sity. Instead of your social life depending 
Mary is 305 pounds of fun and her brain upon NO, make Notre Dame dependent upon compares to that ofa dinosaur-cut in half. She your's. With all the changes over here, this is a is a woman offew words because she cannot perfect year to improve your image. connect sentences. The only time she visits A fellow SMC student noted, "It may be the SMC bookstore is for a candy run. When harder to get into Notre Dame, but it's harder Mary talks about cramming, she's referring to to stay at Saint Mary's." Her words signal the food. She is the best of the SMC chicks, the frustration she feels as an honor student who grand lady ofSYRs. receives little respect from the NO commu­
Above au, Mary is a campus joke. She gives nity against whom she believes she is compet­the men from Notre Dame something to talk ing. SMC students should no more compete .about between weekends. And until four days with "Domers" than "Domers" should com­, pete with Stanford or Harvard students be­
cause every school is unique in its emphasis. 
Joseph Murphy 
Remember you are your own woman. 
Never compare yourself to others for always 
Wishful thinkmg there will be greater and lesser individuals 
than you. Never take yourselfso seriously that ago, when I laughed at the latest SMC joke, I you cannot laugh at your own imperfections. presumed my friends from Saint Mary's Be happy with yourself and others will find laughed too. They do not. To them, each new happiness in you. joke represents one more stab in the back by I am not telling NO students to stop laugh­their Irish cousins. ing, but rather to laugh with people and not at 
Perhaps you are thinking I am exaggerating them. Humor can either cut people down or the impact of a few jokes. lf so, I suggest you build them up. Do not be a)oan Rivers, but a call someone from SMC and ask them to read Bob Hope. If you would not want something just the first paragraph of this column and said about you, do not say it about others. prepare yourselffor an explosion. I know deep down you value Saint Mary's 
Perhaps you feel, Saint Mary's women are and treasure the friends you have there. All I overly sensitive. They are reacting too am asking is that you tell your SMC friends strongly to a little good-natured teasing. Stop they do not live on the wrong side ofHighway and put your feet in their shoes. If your dorm, 31. like my dorm, has a bad reputation, then you The time has also come for the women of know how damaging jokes can be because un­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to cross the derlying the jokes is a very serious meaning. street and hurdle the social walls which were Now, apply those jokes to an entire college. built upon petty prejudices. Though you may 
The damage from "Domer" humor has go to separate institutions, you are a part of helped to stagnate the spirit of Saint Mary's the same community. Identify with one an­not in a direct, deliberate v•ay-but in a subtle other. manner. Each joke reinforces the previous Above all, remember whatever the differ­one and sets the stage for the next. Humor can ences may be, these two communities have be a vicious cycle. · much more in common than in disagreement. 
To the women ofSaint Mary's, I must insist Grow together, not apart. that you change your own image. I cannot do joe Murphy is a sophomore in the College of it for you. One column is simply not enough. Arts & Letters and is the assistant Viewpoint To gain credibility, demand credibility. Do editor at The Observer. 
Labor Day at ND 
A freshman with whom I was speaking the Dame students taken from the ranks of labor­
other day was surprised to learn that classes ing families," I interrupted. "Most are the sons 
would be held on Labor Day. "I thought it was and daughters of leaders , managers and 
a national holiday," he lamented. professionals. They've never done, nor will 
He was right, ofcourse. Labor Day is and has they ever do, manual labor, so why should 
been a national holiday ever since President they take time out to celebrate the American 
Grover Cleveland signed it into law back in laborer?" 
1894. My friend still didn't seem quite satisfied so 
My friend, however, should not have been I continued. 
surprised to find that the first Monday in Sep­"The word labor, particularly when fol­
tember should be anything more than lowed by union, is a dirty word on this 
campus. The administration has taken great 
pains to prevent University workers from uni­
JohnNeblo 

onizing. How would it look if all of a sudden the University started endorsing labor
outside, looking in holidays?" My friend shrugged his shoulders discons­"business as usual" at Notre Dami."·I tried to olately. "I don't care whether University explain to him that, despite the otherwise uni­policy is consistent with University goals, I versal celebration of labor's holiday, the the just want a day off to catch-up on some work." very idea ofLabor Day is inconsistent with the "Obviously you haven't considered for a aims, composition and character of Notre minute the consequences of celebrating Dame. Labor Day at Notre Dame," I scolded. "Who "Inconsistent," he objected,"How?" would cook your meals? Who would wash the "Notre Dame," I explained, "does not exist dishes? Who would clean your room and wash to create laborers, it exists to create the your clothes? Don't you see that ifwe gave all leaders, managers, and professionals oftomor­those workers a day off on Labor Day, we row. In other words, we're trying to staff cor­would end up doing their work?" porate boardrooms not fill union halls. Now "You're right," he said, "I never thought ofit how could that end be served by celebrating in those terms. We don't even want a Labor Labor Day?" Day at Notre Dame, do we?" "But the students... "Nor are many Notre "Now you've got the picture." 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief. . . .  . .. Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .  . ...... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller . .  . .. Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor........ Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor . . .  . . Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager.  . ... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager.  . . Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor.  . ..... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  

I 
Tuesday, September 4, 1984-page 7 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
East 
W L T Pet. PF PA 

N.Y. Giant!' 0 01.0011 l8 l7 Dalla.' I 0 01.000 lO 1.~ Philadelphia 0 I 0 .000 27 28 St. Louis 0 0 .000 H H Wa.odllngton 0 0 .000 17 ~' 
Central Chica~o I 0 01.000 ~4 14 Gr~~nBay I 0 01.000 24 23 Detroit 0 0 .000 27 30 Minnesota 0 0 .000 13 42 Tampa Bay o o .ooo 14 H West Atlan(a I 0 01.000 36 28 San Francisco 0 01.000 30 l7 
L.A. Ram~ 0 I 0 .000 13 lO New Orleans 0 0 .000 28 ~6 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East 
W L T Pet. PF PA 

Miami 0 01.000 ~5 17 New England 0 01.000 21 17 N.Y.)CL'i 0 01.000 23 14 BuJfalo 0 0 .000 17 21 lndJanapoU~ 0 0 .000 14 23 Central CJnclnnad 0 I 0 .000 17 20 Cleveland 0 0 .000 0 3! Houston o o .ooo 14 H PhL'iburgh 0 0 .000 27 37 
• 
West Denver I 0 01.000 lO 17 KansasOty 0 01.000 37 27 
L.A. Rald<l'li o 01.000 H 14 San OJcgo 0 01.000 42 13 Sf:attle o 01.000 H o 
Yesterday's Result~~ ~attic 33, Cleveland 0 Dalla.' 20, l..A. Ram' 13 
lbul'tldlly's Gamrs Piusbuf'M,h a1 NJ. jets 
Sports Briefs 
Stretchercise, a different kind ofexercise class featuring stretching and light exercise, is being offered by the Non-Varsity Athletic Office. The classes will be held on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5: I 0-6 p.m. at ACC Gym 4, above Gate 3. Call the NVAoffice at 2.:\9·51 00 for more information.-The Obsen1er 
A scuba diving class is being offered by the NVA <>fficc. lbc course will run for a period ofsix weeks and will award YMCA lifetime certification. To find out more about living under­water, come to the organizational meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. · The Observer 
The first set ofdeadlineshas been announced by NVA. Tomorrow is the deadline for registration for the following sports: men's and women's interhall football, undergrad and grad­faculty singles tennis for men and women, undcrgrad and grad­faculty mixed doubles tennis, co-ree softball, and the 16-inch softball slow pitch tourney. September 12 is the deadline for entries for grad touch football, men's soccer, co-ree water polo, and the golf tourney.-The Obsen'er 
Gerry Faust will be the guest speaker at an informal ml·ctlng tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium for any freshman interested in becoming a Student Manager. Enter through Gate 2. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Clubwillholdanorganiza­tional meeting tomorrow at 6 p.m. at the boathouse. New members arc invited to attend to find out about the club and its activities. -The Observer 
Officials are needed for interhan football and soc­cer. No previous officiating experience is required. If interested, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. ·The Observer 
"Speaking 0 f Sports," Notre Dame's own campus sports radio show, will make its season debut tonight, starting at 10 
p.m. on WVFI-AM 64. The 1984 football season will be the topic of discussion, and listeners can voice their questions about the upcom­ing Irish football campaign by calling 239-6400 or 239-7425. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame squash club will hotd an organizational meeting Thursday, Sept. 6, at 6:30 in the Lafortune Little Theater. Call Sean at 277-3953 for details.-The Observer 
Aerobic classes for both men and women begin on Sept. 5 and 6. Classes run from 4-4:50 p.m. and 5:10-6 p.m. on Mon­days and Wednesdays. There also will be a class from 4-4:50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Classes will be held in Gym 4 of the ACC (above Gate 3). Advanced registration is necessary. The cost for the classes is as follows: students -$4 (halfsemester) or $6 (full semes­ter), faculty and staff-$13 (half semester) or $25 (full semester). Register at the NVA office. -The Observer 
The men's track team will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 4:30 p.m., in the ACC Football Auditorium. Students interested in either indoor or outdoor track should attend.­
The Observer 

All returning wrestlers and all those interested in wrestling should report to a mandatory meeting today at 4:15p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. Please bring a copy of your schedule. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The Ohsen•er Notre Dame oftke. locatnl on the third floor of LaFonunt• Student Cemer. accepts <.:lassified adverlising from 9 a.m. lHllil ·l p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's office, lo<·att·d on tht· thirdlloor of tlaggar College Center, acn·pts dassifieds from 1.2:.~0 p.m. until .~p.m .. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day l'lassifkd~ is j p.m. All das~ilkds must he prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I0 l't•nts per live charac­
Classifieds 
rers cr da · 
NOTICES 
Ate you In need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner ()( CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (23!Hl264) 
Are you In need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! SeelTC Bob Skinner ()( CPT Anna Rieman In the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 aNer 5:30
... 
TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE 
BRIDGE BRIDGE BRIDGE Who says there's nothing 10 do? Call Town & Country Bridge Center at 255­6613 I()( m()(e inf()(matlon. 
APPLICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT AT IRISH GARDENS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICES IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE RETURN BY TUESDAY SEPT. 4TH. FINANCIAL AID FORMS A MUST. 
.....''..' ...........~ .......................................... 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICES OF LAFORTUNE FOR EMPLOYMENT AT IRISH GARDENS 64-85. DEADLINE IS WEDS, SEPT 5. FINANCIAL AID FORMS A MUST. 
GRADUATE STUDENTS! The NEW YORK TIMES. the WOftd's 1 newspaper, Ia available I()( delivery to your depart­ment mailbox ()( any other convenient place on campus I()( only 35 cents on waei<daya. The TIMES guaran18811 to deliver your p&pef before 8A.M. the day of publication. It's never loo late to order. Slmply conlact George Devenny at 145 Slanl()(d Hall 283-2094 
UNDERGRADUATES, LAW STU­DENTS, PROFESSORS, STAFF PER­SONNEL, SECRETARIES SECURITY GUARDS, and aqulrrels. The NEW YORK TIMES WIU DELIVER your copy of lhe tlmaa I()( only 35cents on weekdays. The Times guarant8811 delivery to your room. office, carrol. mailbox department office. or tree bef()(e BA.M. the day of publica· lion. It's never too late to ()(dar ao come on, alay up with ihe TIMES, cootact George Devenny al 145 Stanl()(d Hall 283-2094 
NO SHENANIGANS WILL BE HOLDING AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TUES 9/4 IN 242 O'SHAG. ALL INTERESTED SINGERS, DANCERS, MUSICIANS, TECHNICIANS & CHOREOGRAPHERS WELCOME. 7:00P.M. 
LOST: Eddie Wilson at the Jersy Shore 20 Years ago. Return to Goon al 135 Stan­l()(d. 
FOUND: CRUISERMANIA at GOD COUNTRY, Notre Dame. Eddie and the CRuisers livaa! 
Help Wanted: Carriers lor the New York Tlmaa. Morning hours 5-7$/hour Steady and part-time positions available. Apply to George 145 Stanford 
STUDENT TICKET LOTIERY lor NOTRE DAME/MICH.ST. game THIS THURS. SEPT.6TH FROM 10a.m-4p.m. In student gov/studenl actboard office 
STUDENTSII 
The Computer Center is now publishing 
a monthly 

COMPUTING 
NEWSLETTER to keep you up lo date on campus com­puting activltlaa. A copy will be sent to each dorm, but we are also offering per­sonal subscriptions on a trial basis. 
See Beny in Room 31n the basement of lhe Computing Canter/Math Building to subscribe. You must come in person to sign up. Requaats will be honored on a first-come, first-served basis while the supply lasts. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: BLUE SUIT BAG WITH BROWN TRIM, SENT ON PHILA CLUB TRUCK. OWEN MURRAY/BOB GUILDAY OR ANYONE WITH INFO PLEASE CON­TACT PAT FINNAN · 426 FISHER (3079). 
MISSING: TAN & WHITE KITIEN (FEMALE) LAST SEEN IN N.D. AVE/SO. BEND AVE (N.D. APTS) AREA ON MON­DAY, AUG 27. HAS LIGHT TIGER MARKINGS, STITCHES ON RIGHT SIDE OF NECK, AND BLACK PLASTIC ANTI-SCRATCH COLLAR. PLEASE CALL MARK AT 289-7084 WITH ANY IN­FORMATION. THANKS. 
Lost AIWA walkman in LaFortune lobby on Monday. The lape Is very importanl. Reward offered please call Annie 272­0816 
FOR RENT 
Furnished House-Just became available · 5 bdrm, 2 bath $350 per mo. Call 277­3461 or collact 616-445-8263 
FURNISHED BASEMENT ROOM FOR TWO STUDENTS. CALL 232-6193. 
WANTED 
SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Ollicer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) 
Trevell FREEl Trevell Earn high coin­mlulona & FREE trtpa promoting wtnt• end Spring Break akl end aun tripe. SUNCHASE TOURS CAMPUS REP. poeltlona evelleble. CALL TOLL FREE 8011-321-5911. 
WANTED: Female roommate to share living expenses In furnished house. 10 minutes from campus. $150.00 includes utilities. 
239-5930 
291-9644 
HELP WANTED: FULL OR PART-TIME COOK. APPLY MACRI'S DELl, UNIVER­SITY CENTER, MISHAWAKA. 277-7273. 
WANTED: PERSON(S) TO SHARE RIDE AND EXPENSES FROM KALAMAZOO. Ml TO SOUTH BEND, IND DAILY. CALL DIANE 239-7560. 
HELP WANTED TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT SEEKING PART TIME KITCHEN HELP. PREP. OF SALADS PASTRIES ETC. APPLY IN PERSON 620 W. WASH. ALAN MARTUNEAC EXEC. CHEF 
Needed desperately TWO TIX lor lhe PENN STATE game. Will pay$$$$$ Call Nancy al2169. 
NEEDED: TWO G.A. TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME: CALL 283-3884 
CHANCE OF A LIFETIME: Need 1 or 2 roomates to share awesome house 1.5ml from campus. Enjoy luxury AT $160/mo. Call232-2839 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: Brown plaid love seat, $75.00; Velvet celery green chair, $50.00. GOOd condition. 
239-5930 
291-9644 
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR SOME COOL PARTY SHADES OR SOMETHING TO CUT THE TROUBLESOME GLARE? IF SO, CONTACT YOUR LOCAL CLASSIC SUN GLASSES REP AT 1172. GREAT GLASSES AT GREAT PRICESP 
MAXELL XL2 2.751150 

CARPET REMNANTS lor sale. Three sizes, brown. Used last semester. Call 288-8461 or 233-4028 eves. 
TICKETS 

I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI GAMEIIIIII CALL MARlPAT AT 277-2581 OR 239-7471.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEEDED: 4 GA FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL ANNE 2822 
Help! Little brothers want to see NO loot­ball game. Need to exchange 2 lor at least 4 (or 5) for S. Car. game. Call Paul1762. 
Needed: 1 or2 Purdue tlx; Markx1154 
NEED ONLY 1 TICKET FOR PURDUE GAME CALL 277-4677 AL $$$ 
HELP! MY unLE BRoil-i.eR.is coM: lNG ALL THE WAY FROM SACRAMENTO TO SEE THE NO ­COLORADO GAME, BUT I'LL NEED A 
TICKET. CALL DENISE AT 1330. 
................................................................ 
V31 NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
NEED TICKETS TO ANY NO HOME GAME CALL JOHN 3335. 
.............................................................. 
NEED 5 TIX FOR AIRFORCE $$$ call SMC5264 
... . '.................................... NO GRAD NEEDS TO BUY OR TRADE FOR 4 PURDUE TIX FOR REUNION WITH ROOMMATES. CALL RON AT 3301 
,-·~-~..i~ ..d·~~-~..~~··~;· ~··N·~~~~·o~~~-~~: 
Purdue ticket Please contact Joseph Ir­win ai336Zahm Hall, 283-1065. 
NEE'D..2.PURO·ue··riX.SUiAN'NE''284: 
4697$$$$$ 
................................................................ 
need many PURDUE TIX. will pay many $$$.Call DAN 1649. 
....................................... 

NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR MIAMI FOOTBALL GAME CALL 283­3294 
NEED TIX TO PURDUE GAME. CALL TERRY AT 1705 -I'Ll MAKE IT WORTH YOUR WHILE. 
....................... 
I'm out of here NUDE lor 2 PENN STATE GA's. Call Tony 2454. 
NEED 1-8 Miami Tickets. I'm from an Irish Catholic family and some of my brothers and sisters are coming lor a game. Con­tact Scott 145 Stanford 283-2094. 
............................ 
need 1 or 2 PURDUE llx, G.A. or student, will pay good$$$, please call255-7770 I need 2 parent tix I()( the S Carolina game. Please call Steve al4125. 
Needed desperately, 2 sets of 2 Purdue ticketsI! Call Kevin, 3562 
STUDENT TICKET LOTIERY I()( NOTRE DAME-MICH.STATE TICKETS THIS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6th be­tween 10 a.m.· 4 p.m. In the STUDENT GOV./STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD OFFICE I 2nd floor LaFORTUNE 300 TICKETS AVAILABLE ONLY 1 ENTRY PER PERSON 
HELP! Needed 1 PURDUE TICKET Call Paul at 283-1609 
Need 1 student Purdue ticket. Call Lllsa at 272-0805 alter 4 p.m. 
$$$Desperately need three student tix and four GA tix Willing to pay big bucks! Call Karen ()( Pany al SMC·5254 
Need one Purdue ticket. Please call Mark al2443 
HELP! In Desperate Need 01 Two Colorado Tickets! Will Pay $$$ x Julie­4031. 
Help! My parents want to relive their youth --and they need South Carolina tickets to do so. Please help them through their col­lactive midlife aisis. Cali Kristin at x3838. 
PERSONALS 
Once long ago A word from you /Ips And the world turned around. Bur somewhow you've changed; You're solar away. /long lor the past And dream of the days with you, Madame Blue. 
-Styx 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-200 stu­dent loans Due In 30 Days 11 Interest Open 11 :30.12:30 M-F Basement LaFortune 
rHe..wi:i'Fio··,·s··t4es:r·.-·i:r··is"cOM'iN'G 
SEPT. 8. DON'T MISS IT. 
0:00 YOU KNOW WHY EEs HATE GIRLS??? A:THE FEELING IS MUTUAL. 
................................................................ 
CHEGS... THE FEW. THE PROUD. THE FUDGE PACKERS. 
............................................................... 
HI Jllnl 
Guess Who... 
EUROPE'85111 
MY LONG LOST BROTHER HAS BEEN FOUND. HE WALKED All THE WAY BACK FROM VIETNAM, AND HIS ONLY WISH IS TO SEE A NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL GAME. II you have a student ticket ()( a G.A. I()( the Miami game please call Sarah al1333. Think of it as an act of patriotism, selling your llckat to a vel. 
I'll die I()( you. 
I'll die for you. 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA OUR FAVORITE RAIIIIIIIIIIIIII MP J MP J MPJ MPJ MPJ MPJ 
HO(>HO(>HO(>HO(>HOOTER YOU'RE A LIVING DOLLI HO(>HO(>HO(>HOO-HOOTER 
FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE AGITPROP. 
MEN: Please call VIKKia127611111i 
AUTHORSI Juniper Press is looking lor a manuscript of 70.100 pagaa to publish this fall. We need It Immediately. Please submit your wort< to: Juniper Preas, Am. 
3390'Shag. 
The Qba.,ver Is accepting applications f()( the position of design assistant. Sub­mit your applications by TueSday, Sept. 4 at 5 p.m. Ouesiions? Contact Margaret al the LaFortune Observer office. 
... The only organization which knows that hlp-waders are used lor more than dealing with administrative policy .... THE NO ROD AND GUN CLUB IS COMING 
Preserve America's wetlands! The NO Rod and Gun Club Ia coming. .......................... 
K.M. CONLEY call me sometime? 
To my friends at SMC: Although 1 no longer attend smc. I will always cherish the wonderful tlmaa we spent together May we remain lnends, and may your last 2 years at SMC be enjoyable and suc· caaslul. Love, Janel 
...................... 
Production Oepertmenli There will be a meeting lor all daaign editors and assistant design editors Weclneedlly at 6:30 In The Ob:terver of­lice. Thai's Wecl.-dlly, September 5, 1984. The semester schedule will be finalized. Those who attend will be given first priority. If you can't attend, you'd bat­ter contact Margaret Immediately (II not sooner). 


~ ­
The Observer Tuesday, September 4, 1984-page 8 
save ~ coupon -save • coupon -save -coupon -save . coupon . save . coupon . save . coupon · save • coupon 
~ 
. 
>
Division leaders gain in baseball : 1o~ 
off on audio and video 
Associated Press Tigers. 
Dennis Boyd, 10-9, struck out With the score tied 3·3, Ken seven, walked two and gave up Cubs 4, Phillies 3 Singleton started the Baltimore seveh hits before giving way to Bob 
eighth with a walk off Jack Morris, Stanley, who picked up his 19th
PHILADELPHIA · Ryne Sandberg 
I 7 ·1 0, who gave pinch hitter Joe save.

scored from second when shortstop 
Nolan a intentional pass and then

Kiko Garcia misplayed Gary Mat­
walked AI Bumbry to load the bases.

thews' grounder with two outs in Giants 4, Reds 3 
That brought on Aurelio Lopez, 
·

the top of the 12th to give the SAN FRANCISCO Dusty Baker &, Authorized Service For: 
whom Young greeted with his blast. 

Chicago Cubs a 4-3 victory over the drew a bases-loaded walk from Cin· 8 Pioneer • Kenwood-Bose-JVC -Panasonic .. Sh~rp -Sanyo -Marantz Philadelphia Phillies on yesterday. cinnati reliever John Franco in the ~ Atari · TEAC • RCA· Quasar. Sylvania 
Pinch-hitter Richie Hebner led off Twins 4, Royals 1 ninth to give the San Francisco =--------GOODTHRU 12·31-84 ---------~ the 12th against Renie Martin, 1-2, Giants a 4-3 victory over the Reds the fifth Phillie pitcher, by hitting a KANSAS CITY, MO.·John Butcher yesterday. gaooaaooaoo::IO""...o-...oo-..r....o--..r..r..r~..r..r..r....ocoooooaooocr.JCl 
limited Kansas City to four hits over
grounder to second baseman Juan Franco came in to face Baker, a Samuel who booted the ball for an pinch-hitter, after the Giants loaded
7 2-3 innings and Ron Washington knocked in two unearned runs last 
I Campus delivery
error. Bob Dernier sacrificed Heb­the bases on singles by Scot 8
night, lifting Minnesota past the

ner to second. The Phillies seemed Thompson andJoel Youngblood and out of the inning after Hebner was Royals4-l. an intentional walk to Johnnie ~ for ~ 
Butcher raised his record to 11-8

trapped offsecond on a grounder by LeMaster. Franco relieved Jeff Rus­Sandberg. But Sandberg stole as the Twins snapped a five-game sell, 6-16, who left after ;illowing 
I New York Times I 
losing streak. Ron Davis, the third

second and then scored when Gar­eight hits and striking I 0. 
Minnesota pitcher, retired the final §Contact: George Devenny
cia couldn't handle Matthews' The winning pitcher was Greg grounder between third and short. Minton, 3·8, San Francisco's third S283-8635 145 Stanford 
two batters for his 26th save. 

George Frazier, 4-2, the second hurler. § (For anyone who called me last week, my phone Cub pitcher, worked three scoreless 
Mariners 7, Rangers 3 ~ wasn't working. Please call again.) 
innings for the win. Lee Smith 
ARLINGTON, TEXAS · Seattle Yankees 2, Blue Jays 0 t. ...O"'.....o>""..r~..r..r..r...c--..r..r..r..r.....-..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r....o--..r..r...c
.......................................................
pitched the 12th for his 29th save. 

used two walks and three errors to NEW YORK -joe Cowley scat· Cards 7, Mets 3 score four unearned runs in the tered three hits over eighth innings fourth inning as Mark Langston and and Bobby Meacham drove in the
ST. LOUIS -Bruce Sutter set a Na­
the Mariners beat the Texas Rangers deciding run with a sacrifice fly intiqnal League record with his 38th 7-3 last night. the seventh as the New Yorksave as the St. Louis Cardinals beat Langston, 14-9, gave up nine hits Yankees blanked the Toronto BlueNew York 7-3last night. 
and walked five in 7 1-3 innings. Ed Jays 2-0 yesterday. 
usc
Sutter went two innings to best Nunez finished up to collect his Dave Winfield hit a solo homer,the league save record of 37, which 
sixth save. his 17th, leading off the eighth tohe held with Clay Carroll and Rollie 
UNDERGRADUATE­
Langston struck out seven to in­provide a cushion for Cowley, 6-l.
Fingers. The major-league record is 
crease his American League-leading Cowley, who struck out four, was45, set last year by Dan Quisenberry 
total to 174. lifted in the ninth when he issued his 
SCHOOLS 
of the Kansas City Royals. 

Loser Frank Tanana, 14-13, gave fourth walk. Dave Righetti went theJoaquin Andujar, 18-11, pitched 5 
COMMITTEE
up seven hits, walking three and rest ofthe way for his 24th save.
1·3 innings to take over the major­striking out three in 7 1· 3 innings. Luis Leal, 13·5, had limited theleague lead in victories and help St. 
Yankees to four singles when Willie
Louis to its sixth win in seven games. 
Randolph lashed a double to right in
Andujar left in the sixth after pulling Become a representative of the
Pirates 3, Expos 0 the seventh. Randolph raced to third
a muscle in his left side. Admissions Office to your High School 
on a wild pitch before Meacham
MONTREAL · Larry McWilliams 

over October or Christmas break. 
lofted a sacrifice fly to the warning
Indians 6, Angels 5 scattered three singles through 
track in right.
CLEVELAND · Mel Hall and Joe eight innings and Jason Thompson 
Toronto had its biggest opportu· For applications and further informa­
Carter homered, and Mike Hargrove helped out with a solo homer as the 
nity in the fourth. Rance Mulliniks
Pittsburgh Pirates defeated the tion, stop by the Admissions Office, 
rapped a two-run double to back the 
singled and Willie Aikens walked,
solid pitching of Steve Comer as the Montreal Expos 3·0 yesterday. Room 113 Administration Building. 
and both runners advanced on 
Cleveland Indians topped the Cali­McWilliams, 9·9, who lowered his 
Earnie Whitt's grounder. But
league-leading earned run averagefornia Angels 6-5 last night. 

Cowley prevented a score when he Application deadline, September 15 
Comer, 4-8, yielded seven hits, to 2.41, walked two without a 
snared a smash back through the
strikeout and didn't allow a runner seven innings. Jim Slaton, 6-7, took past second base. Kent Tekulve the loss for the Angels. 
fanned three and walked one in pitched the ninth, allowing only a single to Gary Carter in earning his 
Braves 6, Astros 4 lith save. 
ATLANTA · Dale Murphy's 29th home run of the season, a solo shot 
Red Sox 8, Brewers 5 

in the fifth, broke a 4-4 tie and gave the Atlanta Braves a 6-4 victory last MILWAUKEE · Jim Rice keyed a night over the Houston Astros. decisive four-run inning with his 
Murphy's homer tied him with 300th career home run and Tony Philadelphia's Mike Schmidt for the Armas added his 36th homer of the league lead. season Monday to lift the Boston 
Craig McMurtry, 9-14, pitched six Red Sox to an 8-5 victory over the innings. Gene Garber earned his Milwaukee Brewers. seventh save. The loss went to Vern Rice's 24th homer tied the game 
Ruhle, 1-9. 3·3 in the fifth. Rich Gedman put Boston ahead with a two-run single and Marty Barrett's sacrifice fly
Orioles 7, Tigers 3 
made it6-3. 

DETROIT· Mike Young's eighth­Armas, the major-league leader in inning grand slam broke a tie and home runs, extended the Boston lifted the Baltimore Orioles to a 7-3 lead with a two-run shot in the sixth 
victory last night over the Detroit inning. 
Buddhism 
DoctrintJ, Meditation, and OtJ~otion 
THEOLOGY -475 TrH 9:30 
COlTACT COLLETT COl 17126 
An tmmersion in the religious perspective or Buddtlism tnrougn an eumination or its diverse forms or.religious etpression in doctrinal insigtl.t, meditative cultivation, and devotional worstl.ip. Early llDd Later Indian Buddhism. and Chinese and Japanese Pure Land and Zen will be emphasized. 
t I 
I 
t 
I 
o REPAIRS 
NOT VALID ON ESTIMATE ONLY! n =
RADIO DISTRIBUTING 1l g 
middle off the bat of Tony Fernan· dez. 
OUR NURSING 
SCHOLARSHIPS WILL HELP 
YOUR MEDICAL PLANS. 
If high tuition costs are jeopardizing your fu­ture in medicine, Army ROTC may have just what the doctor ordered: 
An Army ROTC scholarship. 

ROTC recently set aside hundreds ofschol­arships solely for nursing students like yourself. 
Each one covers full tuition, books and other supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. 
So make an ap­pointment to find out 
more about an Army ROTC scholarship. Contact your Pro­
fessor of Military Science today. 
ARMY ROTC. 

BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
Bob Skinner 
or CPT Anne Rieman 239-6264 


~-----­
The Observer 
Tuesday, September 4, 1984-page 9 
Win two games 
APTopT_,.ty 
The Top Twenty coltege football teems in The As· sociated Press poll. with first-place votes In paren· theses, this season's records and total points. Points 
Hurricanes vault to top spot 
based on 20·1!H8·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
Associated Press 
'Inc defending national champion Miami Hurricanes, who defeated two Top Twenty opponents in six days last week, including the preseason No. I team, are back on top of the college football rankings. 
By virtue of a 20· I H victory over 10p-ratc~burn in .the .Kickoff Cia:· sil: and Saturday mght s 32-20 tn· umph over No. 17 Florida, the Hurricanes roared from No. I 0 in the preseason poll all the way hack 10 tht· top spot they held at the end 
\of the 19H3 season. And just like last 
year, Nehra~ka is No. 2. Auburn 
dropped to eighth place. 
Miami received 36 of 55 first· place votes and I,040 of a possible I, I 00 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. Nebraska, which opens its season against Wyoming this weekend, was second with seven first-place votes and 949 points. lbc Cornhuskers also were second in the preseason poll. 
Jimmy Johnson, Miami's new coach, took the rankings in stride. 
"I really have no reaction to Miami being ranked No. I,"Johnson said. "W c arc preparing for our third game in 13 days. Our main concern is playing Michigan this weekend." 
Pitt, ranked third in the preseason poll, wa~ upset by Brigham Young 20-14 and skidded all the way to I7th place. Clemson, a 40-7 "(inner over Appalachian State, moved up from fourth to third with two first· place votes and 900 points. 
UCLA, which opens this week against San Diego State, climbed from fifth to fourth with six first· place ballots and 866 points, while Texas, which doesn't play until Sept. I5, jumped from sixth to fifth with 783 points. 
are Italicized. 
Ohio State, which plays its opener 
1. Mlam1 (36) 2·0·0 1,040 2. Nebraska (7) CJ..O·O 949 3. Clemson (2) 1..()..0 900 
Saturday against Oregon State, rose 
from seventh to sixth with 696 
4. UCLA(6) o-o-o 866points. Notre Dame, which kicks off 
5. Texas 0·0·0 783 6. Ohio State 0-()..0 696
its season this week against Purdue. 
7. NotreO.me(1) ()..()..0 6111 
went from eighth to seventh with 
8. Auburn 0+0 602 9. Alabama (1) 0·0·0 595 10. lowa(1) O·CJ..O 581 11. Penn State ()..()..0 570 12. Arizona State ()..0..() 541 
one first-place vote and 619 points. 
13. Brigham Young 1·0·0 438 14. Michigan (1) 0-0..() 400 
Auburn wa~ eighth with 602 
points, followed by Alabama, which 
15. Southern Methodist 0·0·0 309 16. Oklahoma 0·0·0 302 17. Pittsburgh 0·1·0 273 
remained in ninth place with one 
first-place ballot and 595 points. 'lbe 
18. Boston Coilege 1·0·0 257 
Crimson Tide gets under way this 
19. Weshington 0-0..() 213 20. Florida State 1·0..() 207
week against Boston College. Iowa, No. 12 in the preseason poll, climbed to I Oth with one first-place vote and 581 points. The Hawkcycs Florida State trounced East Carolina open this week against Iowa State. 48-17. lbe remaining first-place vote went The preseason second ten was to 14th-ranked Michigan. Penn State, Iowa, Arizona State, Mic­
higan, SMU, Oklahoma, Florida, Wao;hington, Boston College and lbe second ten consists of Penn Florida State. 
State, Arizona State, Brigham Young, Michigan, Southern Methodist, Oklahoma, Pitt, Boston College, BYU's upset of Pitt vaulted the Wa~hington and Florida State. Bos· .Cougars into the Top Twenty while ton College won its opener over Florida's loss to Miami cost the Western Carolina 44-24 while Gators their spot in the ranking..~. 

You're into higher math and your old calculator helped get you there. 

Rut now it's time for something more. The Tl-66 from Texas Instruments. The TI-66 offers full pro!-,>rdmming power and flexihility so you can solve complex and repetitive math prohlems quickly, easily and with fewer keystrokes than you thought possihle. Its 512 merged pro­gmm steps and over 170 built-in scientific, engineering and statistical functions make for powerful program· ming. And the sleek, streamlined design makes for easy use. 
Its Algehraic Operating System makes it easy on your hrain hy allowing you to key in problems as they are written, left to right. And a 10-digit angled Liquid Crystal Display not only makes it easy on your eyes hut provides alphanumeric notation of your program steps so you can make easy modifications as you go along. There are large, readable keys for your fingers, and an easy-to-follow guidebook so you shouldn't get confused. And last, but certainly not least, at a suggested retail of $69.95, theresa price thats easy on your pocketbook. 

All in all, if we made the Tl-66 pro­grammable calculator an~ easier to use, 
;, wo"ld dT~re< ~ 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 
Optimism 
continuedfrompage 12 
and talented runner, Jefferson made a glowing debut in the spring game filling in for the then-injured Pinkett. 
Fellow sophomore Abraham, '5· I I, 197 -lbs, is a versatile athlete who spent the first week ofspring drills in the secondary before returning to offense. He intiated his rookie cam­paign by scoring a touchdown against Purdue in his first varsity game. Abraham has been a big con· tributor on speciality teams and is a consistently hard worker in practice. 
"Experience is a valuable asscst in the backfield," comments Moore. "Jefferson ha<; adjusted to his posi· tion change very well and works comfortably with the offense. 'lbesc two sophomores add the depth we need at the position." 
Sophomore tailback Byron Abraham announced his plans to transfer from Notre Dame yester­day. Abraham has not yet decided what school he wants to attend, but he will be eligible to play in the 1985 sea<;on. Abraham was not happy with the amount of playing time he wa~ going to get this sea<;on. He remained as the third-string tailback after Hiawatha Francisco's conversion to defense, as Alonzo Jefferson switched from flanker to tailback. 
With the success of the running game in the Liberty Bowl victory last season, Irish eyes will bt· focused on the fullback position. And there to keep the fans interest will be the senior tandem of Chris Smith and Mark Brooks. 
Smith, .6·2, 231 lbs, had an out· standing day in Memphis, carrying I 8 times for I04 yards. It wa~ then that the importance of a balanced running attack was proven, as the opposition could not afford to key on Pinkett. A bruising runner and blocker, Smith is a fine combination of speed and power who played in I I games la.~t fall. 
Trailing close behind on the coat­tails of Smith. is 6-3. 228-pound Brooks. Heading into his final season for the Irish, Brooks ha~ the honor of being the receipent of the Hering award as most improved player in '84 spring drills. An excellent ball carrier called upon in tough-yardage situations, Brooks' power up the middle lifted him to the fourth leading rusher for the Irish in '83. 
"Right now, Smith and Brook.~ arc splitting time in the backfield," ex· plains Moore. "This week will decide who is designated a~ the starter for the Purdue game, however both players will sec some action. With the caliber players we have to choose from, this is one deci· sion that coaches enjoy making." 
A pleasant suprise in the fullback position came in the only freshmen scholarship player in the backfield, Frank Starns. Starns, a 6-4, 225-pound prep All-American, lends ability, size and strenth to his slot. Chosen to the list of the top I00 incoming fresh· men for 1984 by The Sporting News and Football News, Starns certainly figures to be a vital cog in the future of the Irish running game. 
"We have the talent and the per· sonnel this year to have a balanced attack on the offense," explains Moore. "Maybe we will even take a little pressure off our defense. But only time will tell." 
Certainly with the talent and ex­perience the team has returning, and the positive attitude sweeping through the backfield, only time will tell Notre Dame opponents of the force that is emerging out of the Irish offense · a force Irish eyes will hc glad to sec. 


The Observer Tuesday, September 4, 1984-page 10 
step is that they've got to be com­pensated. Why? Because they are special. "When are we going to grow up You want to call it professionalism. Fine. 
and accept the fact that we are 
Call it professionalism. But they are spe­cial people, because they do generate a big business. So what? Soooo lot of income to a university. As a matter offact, the revenue sports obviously sup­what? What's the big issue? We port the non-revenue sports. So if you're are big business today in college going to have an athletic program, yeah, 
sports. Yeah, they're profes­

these guys are special. These girls are spe­cial. You compensate them. So, we're sionals." 
allowed a thousand. Now you're telling
"When you have a stipend, you 
me you want more money. If you want to can control a stipend. You can't make a commitment to college, you get control a kid throwing a light room, board, tuition, and Sl00 a month. 
Period. Plus one round-trip ticket. You
switch for $50 an hour at one 
see, a stipend would control the amount. school or $25 an hour at another Then you say to the athlete, "Now do you this. get
school, but a stipend controls the understand You S1000 plus 
round-trip transportation. You want amount ofmoney going out to an anything else, you Jose your eligibility. athlete." 
Anytbtng else and you lose your eligibility." Don't give me this garbage about making mistakes. 
saying that in basketball you could take that one only needs so many credits Q. What about a situation where an alumnus $4 million out of the $32 million that is toward a degree to be eligible are too lax? gives an athlete cash without the knowl­
Digger 

now being allocated for the NCAA tourn­A. Well, yeah. The biggest thing that hap­edge of the coach?
ament in basketball and still have S28 
continuedfrompage 12 pened this summer was the progression A. The school's wrong. The school's at fault.
million to do something with, which is rule. What if a kid changes majors? See, I The alumnus' is at fault. It's up to our uni-still S 12 million more than they had last 
academically, which affects the class of look at it this way. They've just got to versity to inform all our alumni of the
year because they only had SI6 million. 
'86. Eleven college prep units. Cor better simplify and forget all that stuff. You put rules.
The coaches would like to see that be­
in those units. SAT's and ACT's will academic credibility in and get a kid into Q. But they still can't control these people. 
cause you're spreading it out to 270 
become optional until they can standard­school. Now, once you've got that kid, A. That's right. And the s.o.b. that took it -­
schools. 

ize testing throughout the United States. the simplest rule is that you can't use that he's wrong. The kid knows. 
Q. Why hasn't it happened then if the 
And the only way you can standardize scholarship until that kid graduates. Now Q. But the coach can only do so much.
coaches would like to see it? 

testing is to standardize education so that say the kid goes hardship, then maybe A. The kid knows. 
A. Why hasn't it happened? The stipend's 
you can test. Until that's equal, it's not fair you'd get an extension ofone kid, but you Q. You still can't control the kid.
been turned down by the NCAA vote,
to test. Secondly, in the recruiting should still promise that kid the money A. Fine. Yes, you can. Lose your eligibility.
which is every member institution. Whe­
process itself, any type of infraction once so that after he plays pro ball, he still has You're not playing. You have your schol­
ther it's a Division lA meeting in Chicago, 
you're recruited or once you're on that his scholarship to finish. arship. Get your degree. But you're not
which involves the NCAA Council, the 
campus as a student-athlete, you lose Q. Is that the case right now, a kid can come playing. · 
conference reps, the faculty reps, the ath­
your eligibility. And third, you're there to back and finish his scholarship later? Q. But still, it comes down to the fact that
letic directors, and the Division I 
get a degree. Until we get that consis­you can't control the kid. 
coaches, men and women, football, bas­A. No, not many schools even think along
tency, you're going to have these prob­Wait a second. What the hell? I mean,
ketball, and women's basketball. It was those lines. I can't tell you here because A.
lems. what? Do we feel sorry for the kid be-
voted down. Ask them why. Don't ask me all our kids graduate. But a lot of schools
Q. Does all the money that a team gets for cause he took a hundred bucks? Is that
because I voted for it. They might think now are starting to get into that trend,
making it to, say the Final Four, come into it's professionalism. But when are we and if a guy leaves, or guy uses his what you're saying to me? 
it at all? No, but a lot ofpeople are going to argue
going to grow up and accept the fact that eligibility and he's credits short... See, I Q.
A. Nah. So what if a school gets $500,000 for that when a kid makes just one mistake,
we are big business. So what? Soooo think it would be a great thing for col­
going to the Final Four. They say, "We he shouldn't be given such a harsh
what? What's the big issue? We are big leges and universities to always have that 
have to get there. We need the money penalty. That's what one section of the
business today in college sports. Yeah, money there available for that guy to
and all that." I can't see that mentality public would say.
they're professionals. I mean, isn't Carl finish his degree. It's a lifetime scholar-
controlling or ruining athletics. I think Don't feel sorry for this kid because he
Lewis a professional? The guy has a trust ship until you get your degree. But I also A.
what we should be doing with that makes one mistake. One drink took many
fund of between four and five hundred think you've got to restrict the number of
money, in my opinion, I would like to see and you hit somebody with deadly
thousand dollars. That's my whole point. scholarships so that if you've got say 15 a 
us in the basketball area take out four mil­weapon--a car ·· and you kill them. Yeah, 
Q. Do you feel that exploits the players at scholarships, which you're allowed now
lion dollars and give each youngster that's a mistake. But it still gets back to
all? for four years, then maybe you're allowed 
S1 00 a month for 10 months, and that what values and priorities they want to
A. How does it exploit the player? He's get­a grace of three scholarships, but no
would cover 270 schools with 15 schol· teach.
ting an education. more than that three. You may have IO
arships for each school. So, does it all come down to making it
Q. Not everywhere. guys, but you're allowed only three as far Q.
Q. Don't you think that might bring a sense clear from the start?
A. Well, that's his fault. The student-athlete as the grace period, so that you're
of professionalism into college athletics, Keep it simple and make it clear. Here's
must Jearn, very simply, that he can ex­penalized only three, which means that A. 
to some extent? what you're allowed: room, board,
ploit a university academically versus you can still keep 12 on scholarship, over
A. No. So what. lfyou want to call it profes­stipend. Some alumnus walks up and
having that academic institution exploit a four year period because you're still
sionalism ·-fine. What I'm saying is it's gives you 50 bucks. Know that you can
him athletically. It's his problem. He's al­waiting for three other guys to graduate.
going to knock out the nickel-dime lose your eligibility. Are you smart
lowing that to happen to him or herself. And once those guys start ticking off, well 
cheating you're talking about. The enough to that if you
And that's got to be reversed. It's that then you'd get your 13th, or your 14th, or know son take 
student-athlete is being told now he something under the table like that, that 
simple. lf it's professionalism, fine, it's your 15th. You get your academic
needs college prep units. He's being told you're affecting your eligibility for the
professionalism. But the thing is, to me, credibility. You can't use the scholarship
he's got to progress toward a degree so rest of your playing career. Do you un­
why not admit what we arc. We are big until the guy graduates. This means that if 
that he can graduate with a major degree. derstand that son? "But Coach, it's only
business today. We have big stadiums. I'm doing a good job, I've got 15 scholar­
Those three steps. In order to do those going to be once." No. It's going to be
We have big arenas. We have television. ships. Ifyou're not doing a good job, then
three steps, he's got to go to summer zero, because if it's 50 this time, it's 100
These people are special people. They you keep going down in number, by
school. You take a low economic situa­next time, 1000 next time. Where do we
perform. Fine, pay them. They're not get­maybe one a year. So you've got only 11tion. When does that kid have an oppor­ting a million dollar contract. They're draw the line? Society needs some type of
full scholarships because your kids aren't
tunity to work? You're not allowed to discipline to survive. So let's teach it
getting room, board, tuition, and they're
work while you're on scholarship to at­while we're here while it doesn't really
also getting the same type of compensa­
tend summer school, which is an NCAA count in a game called college, sports, be­
tion to have spending money. Now, you 
Coming up 
infraction. You're not allowed to work cause you've got to get ready to play that
take a low economic situation. That kid 
during the school year while you're on other game called "Life." 
can't work. He comes back to school in scholarship, which is an NCAA infraction. Tbe Observer's report on recruiting vio­Q. So, how long before all this is going to
the fall. What's he looking for? How 'bout 
Nowa lot ofpeople will say, "Well, let the lations will continue tomorrow when happen?
some jeans, a couple shirts, how 'bout a kids work during the summer." No. Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust A. All I can do is keep talking about it, get
round-trip plane ticket? He's being told When you have a stipend, you can con­responds to questions on this growing the awareness going, and from the aware-
on the one hand that he's got to be a 
trol a stipend. You can't control a kid problem. The three-part series will con­ness you get action. And when I walk
student-athlete, that he's got to meet throwing a light switch for S50 an hour at dude on Thursday with Notre Dame ath­away from it I'm going to say, "Hey, I gave 
these criteria, but that he can't work. are letic director Gene Corrigan fielding it my best shot." That's all I care about.
one school or S25 at another school, but Now where you putting that kid? a stipend controls the amount of money You're putting that kid under pressure to 
questions on the subject. Because, yeah, it bothers me. It's wrong. Somewhere we've got to teach these kidsgoing out to an athlete. Yes, they deserve do what? To scalp his tickets. Take money principles. We've got to teach them
to have room, board, and tuition, plus from alumni. But a stipend would regu­graduating. I've got 15. Now, maybe that maybe one round-trip plane ticket, plus late all that. Now, if a kid violates any of school can survive with 11, but maybe I priorities. We've got to teach them maybe clothing allowance and spending that, you lose your eligibility. This was can survive with the 15 better than you values. Not feel sorry for him because he made one mistake. Baloney. I'm tired of
money. OK. Well, if it's SlOO a month, voted by the coaches--166-33 --in Divi­can survive with the 11. See, there's got that's SI,OOO. lf you're talking about sion I basketball out of270 schools. Ifyou to be some type of penalty clause in 
hearing that. When do we draw the line and say, "No." You just burn some kids,S500,000 for the Final Four, if you're take anything above room, board, tuition, there. But the rule's simple. Forget all this baby. Now the kid's going to think twice. 
talking about television contracts today, and we're saying now SIOO a month for progression stuff. You can't use the schol­any type of gate receipts or post-season 10 months, that you Jose your eligibility 
Q. Is it going to take us seeing it happen toarship until the kid graduates. That makes one of the big stars? 
receipts, why not compensate? Once you but keep your scholarship, and the it simple. Even if it's a five-year program. 
Let it happen. 

do that, now you're throwing out the guy school can't use that scholarship until the And then the stiffer penalties. Ifyou break A. who's getting the plane tickets. Now player graduates. any of these rules, you lose your Q. And that would take care ofit, you think? you're throwing out the situation where eligibility but you keep your scholarship. A. What would you do ifyou were a star? Do the guy's getting the cash to go buy some Q. Have you ever lost a player where you Q. A lot of people would say that that's too you want to risk a million dollar contract clothes. Why does he want to buy the felt that something illegal went on? harsh. They'd ~ay a kid's being penalized in the pros or do you want to take S1000 clothes? He doesn't have any. When's he A. Yes. I'd say we've lost several athletes too harshly for just one mistake in his life. now under the table, if you're a star? Be-going to work? He's being told 'to be a here in the 13 years I've been here. What's one mistake? s10,000 cash? Is that cause you know why? Obviously, it's not 
student-athlete, and he has to go to sum­
a big enough mistake? working now, is it? What we're doing mer school. He can't work. Who's going Q. So you get that feeling, and then do you Q. Well, what ifit was smaller? now is nothing. The penalties aren't se­to hire him for two weeks and what kind 
do anything about it? Do you say anything A. How much? vere enough. The academic credibility is of job can you get working for two to the NCAA? Q. Acouple thousand. not there yet. And the kids should feel re-weeks? Sweeping the floors in some res­A. Haven't you read what I did in New Or­A. Yeah. We're going to give you a thousand, sponsibility about what's right and what's taurant for S2 an hour? So, if we're going leans a couple years ago? Yes, I've turned a SIOO a month. Now you're telling me wrong. That's a part of the educational 
to have a student-athlete, then the next people in to the NCAA. Yes. you want two. You can'thave two. You're 
structure. 





------------~~------­
T0 day_____________________
r_u.es_d_a_y_,s_e_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_4_,_1_9_8_4__P_a_g_e_l_l 

Berke Breathed 

Tank McNamara jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

The Far Side 



Fly heaven Her tentacles swaying seductively in the breeze, the Venus Kidtrap was again potsed and ready. 
35 Physical 49 Pack for problems shipping
The Daily Crossword 
36 Eng. river 50 Wished 
Campus 
•7 
p.m. -Volleyball, ND Women vs. IUPU-Fort Wayne, ACC Auxiliary Gym. 

•
7 p.m.· l 0 p.m. -Placement Night, Ac(:ounting Majors, Library Auditorium. 

•7:30p.m.-Fllm, 
"My Night at Maud's," Annenberg Auditorium, Tuesday Night Film Series. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 6:30p.m. 16 M0 A0 S0 H 7:00p.m. 16 The A-Team 800p.m. 16 Riptide 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 8:30p.m. 46 Lahayes on amily Ufe 9:00p.m. 16 Remington Steele 
46 Today With Lester Sumrall 10:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 46 Dwight Thompson 
10:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
ll:OOp.m.  46  Praise the Lord  
11:30p.m.  16  Late Night Wit  David Letterman  
12:30a.m.  16  Allin The Family  

Gary Larson 


Do what you will to me1 but I'll never talk! .. Never! And, after me, tnere'll come othen ­and othen -and othenl .. Ha ha hal" 
ACROSS 39 Like a docile 1 Dravidian horse 
language 41 Place of 6 Stuff sacrifice 9 Obese 42 Columbus' 
12 Originate state 13 Sheepfold 44 Zaire river 14 "The Censor" 
45 Chili con ­of Rome 47 At least as15 Tablecloths much

16 Thanks-! 
49-Harold17 Aleutian Isle (Byron hero)18 Classify 52 First fratricide

20 Designated thing 54 --poly 21 Waste 55 Child's string allowance game 22 Clips 61 Sacred bull 
24 Large farm 62 OEDword south of the 63 Sub border 64 Sports group 
28 Between: pre!. 65 Pianist Peter 
30 Tract 66 Snoozed 31 Riviera resort 67 Actor Byrnes 33 Expect 68 Half a fly 
37 Perceived 69 Author wrongly Hermann 

The DOME 
is looking for dedicated peopl to join the yearbook staff. 
Call Mike at 239·7085 or 272·0694 

38 Toward the 51 Homeric work DOWN 
mouth 53 In re 1 Powder base 
40 Architectural 56 Wargod style 57 Proficient 2 La Scala song 
43 10,000 square 58 Performs 3 Coin 
meters 59 Race sections 46 New 60 Feminine
4 It's clear to me 48 Attack ending5 Measurement 

6 Judicious 


Monday's Solution
7 From­
(completely) 8 Hate 9 Earl"-" Hines 
10 Roseoil 11 Track tipsters 13 Feel for 14 Howl 19 Maine college 
town 23 Boss 24 Hindu hero 25 Seed cover 26 -·ce pas? 27 Upheaval 29 Saint Philip ­32 Sacred picture 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 34 Busy as-
All Rights Reserved 9/4/84 
i...................i 
:  SMC ACTIVITIES NIGHT  
•  ~Tonight~ Tuesday, September4, 8-10 p.m. Angela Athletic Facility 

i 

come and see what your opportunities are in SMC & ND clubs and organizations!
: 


Tuesday, September 4, 1984-page 12
S~orts 
Purdue sweeps three games from Irish in season-opening match 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN the Boilermakers were not as quick I 5-I2. Sports Writer on the court as the Irish, their The score was no real disappoint­dominance at the net more than ment, as the Irish had lost to practi­
From the moment Purdue jumped made up for it. cally the same Purdue team by out to a 3-0 lead over the Notre Purdue ended the match with a scores of I S-0, I 5-I and I 5-2 in a Dame volleyball team in the first total of 38 kills, to only 2I for the match last year. game of their match last night, the Irish. The Boilermakers' dominance Especially impressive in the first Irish could never quite get out ofthe showed up even more when one game was senior Josie Maternowski. hole which they had dug for them­looks at the percentage killed statis-Unfortunately, like her team, she selves. tic, which measures· the percent of could not keep it up over the next 
The Boilermakers, considered kills that were successful out the two games. one of the top teams in the Midwest, total attempted. Purdue ended up "I thought (Josie) played well, es­ended up overwhelming the Irish by with a .527 percentage, while Notre pecially in the first game," said Lam­
scores of I 5-12, 1 S-6 and I 5-8 in Dame was far behind at .260. bert. "But consistency is what front ofa crowd of4I 5 people at the counts in this game, and consistency ACC. Even though Purdue did not is hard to achieve. Nobody was con­
play as well as it is capable of, Tonight sistent and nobody played ex­Notre Dame could not capitalize, tremely well."
ND Volleyball 
and could never keep the Boiler­The second game started out
?p.m.
makers down. much like the first, with the Boiler­
"All I can say is that we didn't play ACCArena makers taking a 3-0 lead, and the well," said Irish head coach Art Lam­Irish coming back to tie itat 3-3. But bert. "We gave it away." the similarities ended there, as 
junior Mary Mclaughlin, in her first game as a setter for the In the season opener for both After falling behind by the 3-0 Purdue ran off seven straight points Irish, attempts to set up a spike during Notre Dame's match last squads, play at the net was the decid­score in the first game, the Irish behind strong spiking and several night against Purdue. The Boilers swept the Irish in three straight ing factor. Purdue came into the began to come back. With Junior Notre Dame errors. A Merchant ser­games, outclassing the Notre Dame team with their veteran talent. match enjoying the luxury of seven Tracy Bennington serving, Notre vice ace finally gave the Irish an­For more details on the match, see Eric Scheuermann's story at six-footers, while Notre Dame's tal­Dame countered with three straight other point, but two Purdue kills right. lest player was just 5-11. Although points of its own. The Irish hung pushed the lead out to 12-4. From 
close, and after an exciting rally that point on, the Boilermakers ran which ended wfth Purdue spiking out the match at 1 S-6. 
Talent abounds the ball out ofbounds, the score was The fast, powerful Boilermaker of­6-5 in favor of the Boilermakers. fense continued to give the Irish Purdue then proceeded to make problems in the third and final game. three straight service errors. But the "We weren't prepared for
Optimism reigns in Irish backfield 
Irish could do nothing themselves, Purdue's fast offense," said Lambert, By TRISH SULLIVAN maintain their attitude and keep im­chance at becoming Notre Dame's and suddenly the Boilermakers "but Icouldn't really expect the girls Sports Writer proving throughout the entire all-time leading rusher even before moved out to a 10-5 lead on strong to be because (Purdue) is so experi­
season -that's what makes a good his junior year is complete. 
net play. enced." With the return offive letter win­ball club." Returning to assist Pinkett are Sophomore Mollie Merchant, 
But despite the loss, this waswho had replaced freshman Kath­ners, the apearance of a promising Returning once again to key the sophomores Alonzo Jefferson and definitely not a disappointing nightfreshmen prospect and a Heisman­Notre Dame offense and put fear in Byron Abraham, both of whom had leen Morin, displayed her strong for the young Irish netters. 
trophy candidate in the backfield, as­the hearts of opposing teams game experience from the 1983 serve at this point helping Notre sistant head coach and running back linebackers, is junior tailback Allen season. Jefferson, a S-9, 187-pound Dame climb back into the game at By the signs of last night's match, coach Mal Moore is optimistic about Pinkett. Pinkett led the Irish in rush­Florida native moves into his first it appears improvement is the
10-7 with one of her three service on aces.
the upcoming season, but only ing, receiving, and scoring in '83 full season as a tailback following a way. But the Irish will have no time cautiously optimistic. while establishing five Notre Dame switch from wide receiver slot late But the Irish would come to rest as they try to pick up their
no "I've been very pleased with the records. Certainly a candiate for the in his freshmen year. A gifted athlete closer, as four more service errors first victory tonight as they host progress we have shown thus far," Heisman trophy this year and next, and a net violation hindered them. IUPU-Indianapolis tonight at 7 p.m.
see OPTIMISM, page 9
offers Moore. "But the players must the S-9, 183-pounder has a .definite Purdue took the game by a score of in the ACC Arena. 
Recruiting violations widespread; Phelps reacts 
Irish coach offers his Executive Director Byers solutions to problem says NCAA can't keep up 
Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps always 
Associated Press 
bas been known as someone who is notafraid to speak MISSION, Kan. -Violations of recruiting and financial aid rules in his mind. Things were no different in this recent inter­college sports are becoming so widespread the NCAA is having trou­view with ObserverAssistant Sports Editor jeffBlumb. ble clamping down on all the cheaters, its executive director said. 
Phelps expresses his thoughts on recruiting violations "I believe there is a growing acceptance of the belief that the con­in response to recent comments by NG4A Executive ditions of intercollegiate athletics are such that you have to cut Director Walter Byers-see story at right. corners, you have to circumvent the rules," said Walter Byers. 
"There seems to be a growing number ofcoaches and administra­
Q. Do you think it's true that there is a growing accep­tors who look upon NCAA penalties as the price ofdoing business-if 
tance among collegiate coaches that one must cir­you get punished, that's unfortunate, but that's part of the cost of cumvent the rules in order to be successful today? getting along." 
A. I think two things come out of that. One, I don't Byers, in an interview with theAssociated Press, said there may be 
think coaches generally are looking to break rules. significant violations in as many as 30 percent of all upper-division Two, because of what has come out as far as the programs at colleges. penalties in situations, certain coaches are saying, "The college may be running a clean program in eight or nine "Well, they only got a slap on the wrist, so why sports. In basketball, there may be one or two athletes involved in shouldn't I break a couple ofrules." questionable transactions. I've reluctantly come to the conclusion 
Q. NCAA Executive Director Walter Byers suggested there are volume violations in football," he said. that a lot ofcoaches think penalties are the price of The 62-year-old administrator openly questioned -for the first doing business these days. Is that what you think is time in his 34 years as NCAA chief-the ability ofthe NCAA's enforce­happening? ment department to keep pace with more sophisticated forms of 
A. No. There's one way to handle it. If Byers would cheating. come out and just burn a few people good --with "There are numerous successful programs that do not cheat," said consistency, and I mean the big powers--it would Byers. "And I think the people on our enforcement staff and those stop. I'm talking about total consistency and auto­worth it. So, when your discipline breaks down as who serve on the committee on infractions do a remarkable job of matic four-year probation, a situation whereby the far as the penalty, then throw out all the rules. Why keepingthe lid on as well as they do. But we are not keeping up." student-athlete loses his eligibility but he keeps his do we have rules when there's no punishment? Fourteen schools are now serving some sort of NCAA sanction. scholarship, and you can't use that scholarship un-Q. Do you have any guess on what percentage ofcol­"College people once spent agreat deal oftime at meetings talking til he graduates. If they also would put the coach, leges might have violations in their upper-division about enforcement and ways to improve it," Byers said. "Now, himself, into a situation where he has to resign programs? people spend their time talking about Nielsen ratings and how to get 
based upon him being responsible for that particu-A. I don't think the percentages mean that much. To more teams in the basketball tournament." Jar program, which has happened at the University me, no matter what they come out with as far as Byers declined to name any colleges he suspected of rule­ofFlorida in football, it would stop. Stiffer penalties statistics, the most important thing is it's obvious breaking. are what we need. The coaches generally don't that when you have maybe 20 schools on some "I think there is a sizable percentage of colleges, or personnel at want to break the rules, but all ofa sudden they're type of probation, and there's only 270 schools, colleges, who deliberately set out to beat the rules," he said. under so much pressure to win or be No. 1 at any then there's a problem. How many more are under "Depending on whom you talk to, the percentage ranges from 10 to cost, that they'll say, "Well, Oregon State got out of investigation? I don't know. Forty or fifty? Who I 5. Then there is another 10 to 1 5 percent that is more difficult to it, Southern Cal only got a slap on the wrist, Illinois knows. It still comes back to the fact that intercol­categorize. Those are the ones who would like to obey the rules but only got a slap on the wrist." Ha, they (Illinois) had legiate athletics could he very simple in three who turn their heads when they need to. They wi111ook away when over I00 infractions and all they got was a two-year categories. One, requirements to get into college violations occur in their favor. And I'm talking about significant vio­probation. They still got their television. Yeah, it's lations."
see DIGGER, page 10 









