~--------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 
I I 
1 
Irish Extra -page 9 


Cuomo defends public stance on abortion issue in ND talk 
By THERESA GUARINO Cuomo once again gave his stand the areas of life and death ... In our Assistant News Editor on the abortion issue, saying while pluralistic society we are not re­he is personally opposed to the quired to insist that all our religious 
New York Governor Mario practice, "Catholic public officials values be the law of the land." Cuomo dcfem.kd his abortion take an oath to preserve the Consti· Cuomo cited religious organiza­public policy and explained how he tution... not because they love what tions that don't share the Church's views the relationship between reli­others do with their freedom but be­position on abortion, like the Ameri­gion and politics to a packed crowd cause they realize that in guarantee­can Lutheran Church, but work with at Washington Hall last night. ing freedom for all, they guarantee Catholics to "realize the goals of so­
Cuomo darified his views at the our right to be Catholics." cial justice." He defended these or­beginning hy explaining that "the "The Catholic public official lives ganizations, saying "those who Catholic who holds office in a the political truth most Catholics ... endorse legalized abortions aren't a pluralistic democracy ... bears spe· have accepted and insisted on: the ruthless, callous alliance of anti· dal responsibility. He or she un­truth that to assure our freedom we Christians determined to overthrow dertakes to hdp create conditions .. must allow others the same our moral standards." . where everyone who t·hooscs may freedom, even if occasionally it Cuomo also said he believes a hold hdiefs different from spccifi­produces conduct by them which constitutional amendment outlaw­t·ally Catholic ones-sometimes con­we would hold to be sinful." ing abortion is not the best way to tradictory to them; where the laws Cuomo reiterated Americans are prott·ct people's right to divorce, to free to argue for such issues as a nu­see CUOMO, page 6 usc birth control and even to choose clear freeze, a ban on the funding of abortion." contraceptives, and a law against 
Cuomo was invited to give his abortion, not because the Church or lc:cturc, "Rdigious Belief and Public· Bishops want it, but "because the !'vi orality: A Catholic Governor's Per­whole community, regardless of its spn·tive," hy Theology Departmem religious beliefs, should agree on the Chairman Father Richard McBrien. importance ofprotecting life." His visit to Notre Dame attracted na­But as for his position, Cuomo tional attention because of his does not believe he is "required to rt·n·nt wdl-publidzed disagree­do everything I <.'an as governor to ments with sneral Catholic bishops translate all my religious values into over the issue oflegalized abortion. the laws and regulations of the 
Cuomo began his visit with a press United States." conference in the Center for Con­Cuomo said as a Catholic he ac­tinuing Education for national and cepts the Church's teachings on local nwdia, where he was intro· abortion, but "must I insist you do? duced by McBrien. In Washington By denying you Medicaid funding? Hall, he wa~> preceded by Father By a constitutional amendment? Tht•odore Hesburgh, University Would that be the best way to avoid president, who <.'ailed for a confer­abortions?" ence on abortion to be hdd at Notre Cuomo cited as example, those Dame:, so "misunderstanding might who say that by history, the U.S. was he: dispdlc:d and convictions might intended to be a Christiancountry in ht· darified." law. But, he asked, "where would 
Cuomo began his speech by that leave the non-believers? And saying, "I do not spt·ak <L~ a theolo­whose Christianity would be law, gian; I do not have that competence. yours or mine? This 'Christian na­I do not speak as a philosopher; to tion' argument should concern two ~uggest that I nlUld, would be: to set groups: non-Christians and thinking a new record for false: pride." Christians." 
Ht· dcft·nded his personal faith Cuomo spoke out against the and noted, "The Catholic Church is "manipulative invoking of religion my spiritual home. My heart is there, to advance a politician or party," and 


and my hope:." Cuomo said it is a "lifelong struggle:" to understand his faith more fully and live it truly. Rut, he: said, "applying religious belief to t·veryday life often pn:sents difficult t·hallengc:s." 
said to suggest God favors a state re­ligion or church is dangerous. 
Considering abortion, Cuomo ex­plained the position he is in as governor as "defining policies that determine other people's rights in 
Freshman trip to dunes will go on despite conflict 
ByTOMMOWLE dents of the opportunity to do IJayCbtef both." The dean said he felt the city 
The Freshman Year of Studies' had bet"n "very gracious" when trip to the I>unt"s will be heW as speaking with him and seemed scheduktl Sunday. "There is no "eager to cooperate" with his of­conflict" with Mayor Roger Par­fice. He expects future events t•nt's East Race Picnic for Fresh­will be planned with the city, nwn, the Dean of tht.' Frt.'shman noting that his Snow Parties at Yt·ar, Emil Hofman, said. Bendix Woods are already run in 
"A large number of studt.'nts," association with the county, and Hofman said, "art.' signt.'d up to go the city helps with his shoppping to tht· Dunes. I expect that those tours. who don't go may go to the The Dunes trip costs $2 per mayor\ picnic" freshman. l.ike all Freshman Year 
Ilofman said his only concern of Studies trips and events. it is wht·n he ht·Otrd of tht· trip was subsidized through donations th<ll h;1ving two event~ on tht· from former students. No money, samt· day might dilute the attt·n­Hofman said, is used from the dann· at both and "deprive stu· University hudgc:t for his office. 
Above, Father Theodore Hesburgb, University presi­Mario Cuomo addresses a packed bouse in Washing­dent and Father Richard McBrien, theology depart­ton Hall last night. Below, Cuomo fields questions ment cbainnan, listen intently as New York Governor from the audiencefollowing his lecture. Story at left. 

New J.D.'s not causing complaints 
By CHRIS WALTON spring break epidemic of students 'Jbe laundry reacted positively to News Sluff saying they lost their J.D.'s, and the new cards. In the past, custom­giving us the name of their 21-year­ers had to present a laundry card Upperdassmen may have been old friends," Winicur said. each time they picked up their surprised to receive their J.D. cards The registrar's office says it is clothes. Now students insert their in small green cases this year, with taking a wait-and-see approach to J.D. cards in a machine, much like their birthdates conspicuously ab­the I.D.'s, adding that it has not.yet those in the dining halls, which dis­sent. Rut University officials hope received any adverse student reac­plays their laundry numbers. Accor· the new cards will alleviate some of tion. ding to Norm Mulk-r, laundry the nuisances that a<.:companied the director, the new system hao; cut old J.D.'s. Senior Bar has been, however, the down on the number of off-campus 
The major change in the system is source of some mild complaints students who throw their laundry in that students will usc these cards for concerning the absence of with that ofon-campus dorms. all four of their years at Notre Dame. birthdates on the J.D.'s. "Obviously "We likt· it," says Muller. "It's 

To preserve the cards, the Univer­we can no longer accept student easier for the ladies, it's easier for the sity issued them in green plastic J.D.'s as proof of age, so we ask for students. We've already recc:iVt·d cases, said Lori Butchko of the driver's licenses or last year's cards," about I 0 notes in our suggestion registrar's office. "We instituted this says Kathy Conley, Senior Bar pro­box saying how happy the up­system mainly to avoid the cost and motions manager. Machines like perclassmen arc with the new J.D. hassle of replacing student J.D.'s those in the dining halls were going system." every year," she said. to be installed Ott the b01r, hut the Although most students now 
Danic:lWinkur, the new registrar, high cost, and the fact that Saint seem relatively indifferent to the talked with otht·r schools and found Mary's J.D. cards do not have the new J.D. system. tht·st· sentiments a majority of them use this system. necessary magnetic strips on the may change when cards arc: left on "'Ibis should also help reduce the bat·k, made that option impractical. dressers at home this summer. 

-----~--­

The Observer Friday, September 14, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief ' 
Recovery teams yesterdayfound the last offour bodies ofminers killed when a huge slab ofrockfell on them in a coal mine. The workers were forced to run for safety when loose rock began falling around them, an official said. All rescuers got safely to the mine entrance when a second big chunk of the shale roofinside Bon Trucking Co.'s Burger No. 2 mine began crumbling, said David Jones, administrator of the state medical examiner program. Four men who worked at the mine were crushed I,600 feet inside the mine Wednesday, state Mines and Minerals Commissioner Willard Stanley said. Two bodies were out by 7:30 a.m. yesterday, 22 hours after the accident. ··AP 
Prime Minister-designate Shimon Peres asked the Israeli Parliament yesterday to endorse a national unity Cabinet, to give him authority to deal with the country's urgent challenges and to negotiate peace with the Arabs. Backed by one of the largest coalitions in Israel's history, Peres was assured of winning a vote of confidence last night. Peres went before Parliament hours after he signed an agreement with outgoing Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir to set up a bipartisan government. ··AP 
Professors who joke around in class may not be very good teachers, according to a study conducted at the Univer­sity ofNew Mexico. A survey of I80 undergraduates byJean Civikly, an assistant professor at UNM, and Ann Darling, a teaching assistant, found that humor of any kind made the climate in the classroom "significantly more defensive than supportive." Even when humor isn't sexist or demeaning in some way, it often sends contradictory signals at odds with students' expectations ofthe teacher, research· ers say. -The Observer 
An official ofthe SovietAcademyofSciencessaid Wednesday that dissident physicist Andrei D. Sakharov, who has been in internal exile in Gorky for 4 years, has published an article in a Soviet physics journal. In the United States, a California physicist, Dr. Sidney Drell, said the article appeared to be one written by Sak· harov in February and published in the West in May ofthis year. The Soviet Academy official, Boris Vares, said Sakharov's article was titled "Cosmological Transfers with Changes of Registration Signatories." He said it was published in a recent edition of the Soviet Journal of Theoretical and Experimental Physics. A copy ofthe magazine could not be immediately located in the Soviet capital. ··AP 
Of Interest 
A memorial Mass for Jim DiNardo will be celebrated at 2 p.m. Sunday, Sept. I6 at the Grotto. The DiNardo family will be present and is lookingforward to meeting any of)im'sfriends. All are encouraged to attend. In case ofinclement weather, the Mass will be moved to Grace Hall. -The Observer 
Decio Faculty Hall dedication ceremonies today and tomorrow will dictate some changes in parking near the Stadium. Notre Dame security officials have asked motorists who generally park in the circle or in the area ofDorr Road to use the area farther south. -The Observer 

Weather 
Another dreary day today, it will be cloudy and cool with occasional showers. High in the upper 60s. Chance .of rain is 60 percent. Cloudy and very cool with a 40 percent chance ofshowers tonight. Low around 
50. Cloudy and cool with a 40 percent chance ofrain Saturday. High in the mid to upper 60s. 


The Observer 
Design Editor~ ........................ Chris Bowler The Observer (.USPS 599 l·4000) is Design Assistant ........... Maureen Murphy published Monday through Friday and Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck on home football Saturdays, except News Editor ............................ Amy Stephan during exam and vacation periods. The Copy Editor .................................... J.iz Miller Observer is published by the students of Sports Copy Editor. ....Jeff Diu mb the University of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoint Layout................ John Mennell Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Kathy Doyle purchased for S25 per year ( J15 per se· Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. ND Day Editor .................Jeanne Bowman Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. SMC Day Edltor ........................ Jody Radler The Observer is a member of The Ad Design ........................ Suzanne La Croix Associated Press. All reproduction Pbotograpber ............................ Pete Laches 
rights are reserved. 
Vic Guarino 



Green lights are no guarantee 
THE ROAD -Green does not mean go. Forget what Mrs. Johnson told you in kindergarten about basic traf­fic laws. In the U.S., green means cross at your own risk. To some automobile drivers, red might as well be checkered, as in checkered flag. 
Perhaps a little exaggeration has reared here, but I maintain that it is more dangerous to drive around town now than it was ten years ago. Cars just did not rip through red lights as much when I was II years old sitting on the front seat next to Mom. 
Just the other day, at the intersection of Ironwood and Edison, a white Buick would have spread parts of my car all over the 7 · II parking lot if I had obeyed my green light. 
That particular Buick was speeding, but speed is not the issue here. An automobile can be driven quickly and safely if the driver knows the capabilities of his car and the conditions of the road. The issue is education and enforcement. 
Most Americans receive pitifully poor driver educa­tion. 
For example, my drivers education was an expensive joke. Outdated, graffiti-filled textbooks accompanied macabre accident films from the Ohio State Police. The films were supposed to turn the class into good drivers. Mostly, they turned_ my stomach. Road instruction entailed driving to K-Mart for the instructor. Even worse, I had to pay more than Sl00 for this "instruction," since my high school did not provide a class. 
My state test was no toug­her. In Texas, the "written" part of the examination is taken by answering questions which appear on a small video screen. I had'answered II multiple choice ques­tions when the officer told me I had passed. My road test lasted less than 10 minutes, during which time the offi· cer actually warned me of an upcoming school zone. Parallel parking was not required. 
In European countries, driving is taken much more seriously. In Germany, one must be 18 years old before qualifying for a license, and the potential driver must pass rigorous testing. 
Testing, however, only trains the driver. Enforce­ment keeps the driver aware and honest. Woe to the person who is caught driving while intoxicated on the other side of the Atlantic. Stiff fines and worse can be expected for causing an accident. And drivers are re­quired to stop for pedestrians in a marked crosswalk, even ifthe crossing is in the middle ofthe block. Try crossing U.S. 31 one day and see how many cars 

Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 
Inside Friday 
stop for you. Check your Allstate policy first. In short, the European system forces drivers to be aware. 
The situation is the opposite in the United States. En· forcement of traffic laws is lax in most places, and fines generally are not regarded to be a deterrent. Most American cars insulate the driver from the road, and the 55 speed limit numbs one's senses further. The roads themselves, while supposedly designed for safety, also have tended to allow one to think less about driving and 
more about the song on the radio or the Burger King down the street. 
The situation can change as soon as the American public decides it wants to be serious about operating automobiles. Such concern has been shown lately in the campaigns against drunk driving. But the focus seems to be incorrectly placed on only the first word ·· drink· ing ·· when equal focus should be placed on the driving part. Americans who really know how to drive would know that one cannot control an automobile un· der the influence ofalcohol. 

Tougher, enforced traffic laws and much better driver education must be in­stituted, as well as follow-up training and testing. It seems ridiculous that one can pass a driver's test at the age of 16 and not be tested again for life. 
Driving is a serious activity. Too many people are out on the street whizzing about oblivious to other cars, pedestrians and anything else near the street. It's time to draw the line, to throw the red flag. Red, by the way, means to stop. 
A news brief in yesterday's issue announced the recipients ofthree· and two-year scholarships. Be· cause ofan editing error the scholarships were in· correctly attributed. All awards were granted by the Army ROTC program. 


The Observer Friday, September 14, 1984 -page 3 

dent Body President Lee Ann Franks, in their neighborhoods and adjust to dinance was passed, however, and and Student Government Service their neighbors, Parent said. will be allowed to reopen, even



1Opportunities for 1 
g 
Commissioner Carrie Altergott. "(Drinking) is not just a Notre Dame though the five-points area has more "The bulk of the South Bend com· problem...it is a problem in the com· than two bars within 1,000 feet of munity doesn't get to know the munity at large. You wouldn't want each other, Hill said. 
§ l • <1!V1 • ~ 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's commu­to live in a community that tolerated The ordinance is being modified nity," Parent said. that sort of thing," he said. to exclude "family-type" restaurants
I mwb1 mrrtarrt@€ 1 
"The students are not very differ­"The community gets to know which serve alcohol, Hill said. ~ § ent from other people...others drink you by the events that get alcohol, too...As a city, we have publicized. If I 0 students get ar­"We want to develop more areas
~ Mrs. Christie Turner. A.C.S.W. ~ 

taken a fairly strong stand on alco· rested for underage drinking, that is like five points, which cater to stu­
~ Marriage and Family Therapist ~ hoi." The community at large has what the community hears about," dents," Parent said. He mentioned become "more sensitive" to this Parent said. that more meetings between stu­issue , Parent said. City Attorney Richard Hill was dents and people in the city govern­
S ..... ·\.,~F:. University Ministry invites I Parent said South Bend has much called in to answer a question about ment should be planned, so students to offer on a recreational level, citing the znninp laws ~overnin~ the five-can be included in future activities.
':'-i' , , married couples to a two-session ~ 
1 restaurants, golf courses, and theEnrichment Program § East Race Waterway. The East Race is an olympic-class white-water
': 'f~f,~ ~ 
branch of the St. joseph's River in · · · .., ' Open to Faculty and Staff § downtown South Bend. 
"We have not done a good job of selling ourselves as a community,"§ Parent said, adding that improved ~ S Center for Social Concerns § § communications between the stu­dent community and South Bend are
~ September 17 ~ 24 § 
needed. He proposed a calendar of
8 7:30 · 9:30 p.m. ~ events for both communities to help alleviate this problem. 
"'Jbe reason we came is because we want to improve our image in the
I """ ..... '•' "'"'"'"' '",,, """"''"" """' ""'""'""'
8 Ullllli •'f "1'1'''"'''11/ihl ,,,,. f11111 II<'Ul Ultlll; •'f r,·;pc111dllhl 8 
community which has deteriorated 
li ...,,.,.,'""" '""I '''""'"" '" """ .,..... IIbecause ofthe events on the campus 
last spring and this fall. I call it our 'foreign policy,"' Bertino said. 
"We want to channel all ofourstu­§ § dent government volunteer services through our service comissioner
§ --R.S.V.P. § 
(Carrie Altergott) and someone in
Sl ~ .. •• . by September I4. I 2:00 noon 8§ city government. 11lis way, the help 
will not all go to the same place, but
~MRSITY Call Umvers1ty Mmistry at g 
can be directed to areas that need
Ml"~w 239·5242 R
QC<Y'.....ooooar...o-..r..r..r~..rJ.)Qf"..o-..r..r..r..r..r..r..r...cr..r..r....er..r..r..r..r..r..r-1 help," Bertino said. "We have to be realistic about 


COLOR CITY TV RENTALS 
SPECIAL BACK-TO-SCHOOL DISCOUNT 
20%0FF 
• $25.00/Month If-$80.00/Semester ¥No Deposit ¥Free, Fast Delivery • Any size portable or console 
13398 McKinley Hwy 259-7661 
8/~.....o--~..r...cr....oocr..r~..r...cr...o--..r...o"""....oocr~JCOCO'"J'"1 
Invite you to 
Have A Fiesta!!! 
Starting September 20: Drive Thru open until3 a.m. every Thursday, Friday and Saturday! 
Taco Super Nachos SoftshellTaco Tostada Taco Bravo Enchilada Taco Burger Chili 
Burrito Taco Salad Super Burrito Potato Oles 
r----------------------------------1
Sluy one ot any menu ltetn $ &;« tlae 2nd 





::c..~ FREE 
o.baoluwly 

• COUPON EXPIRES 1 0·12·84 $ 
L----------------------------------~ 

So. Bend (Ironwood & SR 23) Mishawaka (Llncolnway W.) 
Mayor, student leaders discuss links between ND and South Bend 
By PAT SAIN and LIZ MILLER how much time students can put in points area where Corby's Bar is lo­SentorStaffReporters on these projects," Parent said. cated. Concern was expressed that Parent mentioned the recent Corby's Bar would not be allowed to 
The city of South Bend and the crackdowns on large off-campus open again because of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's commun· parties, saying "any time you get '500 controlled-use ordinance. ities are too isolated, South Bend people at a house," for a party the The controlled-use ordinance was Mayor Roger Parent said yesterday police are going to be called. The passed in 1974, prohibiting more during a 'brainstorming session' reprisals are not directed at stu· than two establishments serving with Notre Dame's Student Body dents. "We just have to do our job," controlled substances from being President Rob Bertino, Vice Presi· Parent said. within I,000 feet of each other. dent Cathy David, Saint Mary's Stu· Students have to learn how to live Corby's was built before the or­
lbc-Obsrf'Vrr/VJc Clwuino 

Student Body President Rob Bertino, foreground, confers with South Bend Mayor Roger Parent yesterday afternoon Bertino and several other student leaders met to bralnstonn Ideas for fonning closer ties between the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. 
*********************************** 
~ *ATTENTIONSENIORS* t 
~ ~ ~ ND-SMC Senior Trip Final Payments t ~ for those who paid their deposits ~ ~ and ~ 
~ ~! those who still wish to get one ofthe ~ ~ few limited seats left ~ ~ are due!! ~ 
~ TODAY t 
~ ~ 
~ ALL SENIORS! ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ COLLECTION TIMES: ~ ~ SMC: 4:30 -6:30 Dining Hall ! t (Lemans side) M-F ! ! NO: 11:15-1 and 5-7 ~ ! LaFortune M-F t 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
t AMOUNTS DUE: ~ ~ Paid Deposits: $19000 ! ~ w I o Deposits: $290°0 t 
~ ~ ~ ALL PAYMENTS ARE DUE BY SEPTEMBER 14th ~ t OR SEATS WILL BE LOST : 
~*********************************~ 

------~---------------~-­

The Observer Friday, September 14, 1984-page 4 


Lecture series to focus on Papal addresses 
Speclal to lbe Observer 
This semester the Thomas More Society of Notre Dame is sponsoring a lecture series entitled "John Paul II and the Catholic Vision." The series will consist of seven lectures de­signed to introduce several of the major themes ofJohn Paul II's pon­tificate. Each talk will focus on one or more recent addresses of the Pope. 
The purpose of the series is to present those elements ofthe Catho­lic vision which the Holy Father has emphasized as essential to the Church's vocation in the twentieth century. Last night, Father Daniel Jenky, director of University Mini­stries, opened the series with a talk entitled "Christ, the Eucharist and the Church." The talk outlined the Pope's understanding of how the mystery of the Eucharist builds the mystical body of Christ. 
The next six lectures are sched­uled on Wednesday evenings throughout the semester. On Sept. 19, Father Francis Cafarelli, assistant vice president, will discuss John Paul II's statement that Scripture should be read as "the personal teaching ofGod." 
The following week Bishop Crowley of South Bend will explore the Pope's reaffirmation ofthe sacra­ment ofreconciliation, a concern for which the Pope convened bishops around the world last year. This talk will present the understanding of freedom and morality which un­derlies the Pope's insistence upon the importance of Confession. 
On Oct. 3. Dr. Janet Smith of the 
Program ofLiberal Studies will speak 

~~~M~·· 
~ ~~~ §~<G>ri~ 
1lJJrunmilit~cdl g ilifficc0 
Skydiving instruction and Paraplane Flight instruction 
219-586-3580 Ba•lne.. 219-586-2663 Ho•• 

on the spirituality ot marnage an<l the meaning of the body, with refer­ence to recent addresses ofthe Pope during his weekly audiences. Smith will also clarify the crucial distinc­tion between natural family plan­ning and artificial birth control. 
The series continues next on Nov. 7, when Father Patrick Sullivan of the sociology department will ex­amine John Paulll's 1981 encyclical on work, technology and social justice. This talk will focus on the major features of the Pope's chal­lenge to improve the conditions of the poor. 
On the following Wednesday, Professor Douglas Kmiec of the Law School will' analyze the Pope's insis­tence upon peace that is based on the dignity of the person and the in­tegrity of the family. 
Finally, Theology Professor Father Edward O'Connor will conclude the series on Nov. 28 with a reflection on John Paul II's recent request that the bishops of the world consecrate their countries to Our Lady. 




TYPING 
""'Term Papers 
*Resumes· .-Letters 
•Manuscripts 
•Word Processing 
CaD Chris At: 

234-8997 




,_____ 
·----, 
t' ~, 
I • I 

~ San~~1ch $ls9 i 
: Fries and Pepsi : 
I Your choice of single Chopped 1 
Steak or Fish Sandwich with french II fries and pepsi-cola. No carryouts, I cannot be used with other dis-I I Valid thru Sept. 30. 1984 counts. Tax not included. At partie-I """ U.S. 31 N (Next to No. Village Mall) ipating Steakhouses. Coupon , 
' c 1982 PONDEROSA. INC good for any party nlze. , 

~-------------------J 

HELP WANTED Apply in person at: 6502 Grape Rd. Mish. (across from U-Park Mall) 
MEN of NOTRE DAME 
1985 
CALENDAR 
IS HERE AGAIN WE NEED YOU! 
Please submitpictures or names ofyourfavorite males to 319 or 007 Farley 
TODAY 
: 3 Stooges·-'OWs Well That Ends Well' : e Marx Bros. -'Horse Feathers' e e -a college football comedy! e
•e Knights of Columbus Hall •• 
• $1 -Members FREE • : Fri & Sat 8, 10, 12 : 
r~~
8 '-Men's Hair Styling at its finest 8 
~ minutes from campus ~ 
I $ 00 HAIRCUTS I s ~ s 
I 
~ 272-0312 Welcome Back .~ • ~ .,-~.,~-~~::r~~1e~.ane Students l_~~ ~ 
(St. Rd. 2~) 

g :\no~~ from Marian's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut.
I 
We are only minutes from campus 

r...r...r...r...r...r...r..r...r...r-'->"".J.>""-'->""...r...o-...cr....cr..r....cr...r~...r.....-...r...o-...r...r..r...r...r...r...r...r....c • 
Do you know someone·who •
IS 

dying lobe 'thin? 
Nearly one-third of the worlds population goes hungry because of poverty. And nearly 200/o of the young female population in the United States also starves -but by choice. Because they're dying to be thin. 
Anorexia Nervosa. Bulimia. Two serious eating disorders. Illnesses that can affect people of all ages... and are most common among young women. 
Symptoms-although not all victims display all of them-can include abnormal weight loss. Refusal to eat, except for tiny por­tions. Binging. Vomiting. Abuse of laxatives. Denial of hunger. Excessive exercise. Depression. Preoccupation with food. Absent or irregular menstruation. 
And the effects can be life-long or even fatal. 
Now there is HOPE -Healthy Options for Problem Eaters. A therapeutic program developed by Memorial Hospital of South Bend. HOPE is designed to help those with eating disorders return to a normal, healthy lifestyle, because Anorexia and Bulimia can be cured. But early detection is vital. 
If you know someone who is a victim of an eating disorder, you can help. Register by September 14 for HOPEs next 10-week session which begins September 18. Call 284-7308 for further information. Because HOPE can help. 





HOPE 
Healthy Options for Problem Eaters An aff1l1ate of Memonal Hosp1tal of South Bend m 


The Observer Friday, September 14, 1984-page 5 
Pope addresses economic justice 

A.'lsoclated Press 
MONCTON, NEW BRUNSWICK-­Pope John Paul II, in an appeal for economic justice, called on the faithful yesterday to abandon the "race for profit" and learn to share their wealth. 
Facing I00,000 worshipers gath­t·red in a muddy field for Mass, the pope quoted St. Paul on human com­munities: 
"'Ibere must be no competititon among you ... so that nobody thinks of his own interests first but everybody thinks of other people's interests instead." 
His homily in this eastern Canadian city was the second time in two days that the pontiff hit hard on economic issues. 
Free Tollgate Parties ­FREE Munchies 
MR. D's 1516 N. Ironwood South Bend 233-7747 
He is expected to touch on the 
same theme again in the remaining 
seven days of his Canadian tour, but 
they are particularly relevant in 
Canada's Atlantic provinces -the 
country's poorest region. 
The unemployment rate in New 
Brunswick, a lumber industry cen­
ter, is almost fifteen percent. The 
rate is twenty-one percent in New­
foundland, where the Pope on Wed­, nesday complained that the "needs 
of the many" might be trampled by 
concentration of capital in too few 
hands. 
In biUI;tery weather, facing the 
tens of thousands of worshipers ­
three times as many had been ex­
pected -the Pontiff told them he 
knew that "an economic crisis af­
fects the local communities." 
Every Sat. 11 -5 


Ron Delaere 
Speaking in French and English, , languages of this bilingual province, 
he urged them to have faith in Jesus 
Christ and "show solidarity with 
each other." · 
The homily dwelled on the sub­
ject ofcharity as defined by the early 
church huhcr St. John Chrysostom, 
whose feast day was Thursday. 
In a modern context, the Pontiff 
said the "commitments of charity" 
should include respect for human 
rights, "including the right to life 
from the moment ofconception." 
Another commitment, he said, 
should be the will to live a simple, 
sharing life, "in contrast with the 
present race for profit, consumption 
and artifici;tl gratification." 
The bishops of the relatively liberal Canadian Roman Catholic Church issued a major document in January 1983 calling for a restruc­turing of the Canaqian economy to relieve unemployment, more than 11 percent nationally. 
lbe bishops welcomed the Pope's 
words as an endorsement. 
"One must start with the idea ofa 
full-employment policy," the Most 
Rev.JohnA. O'Mara, a bishop and so­
cial affairs specialist, told reporters. 



Hurricane Diana ravages coastline; many left homeless, but no deaths 

CITY of SOUTH BEND 
ROGER 0. PARENT, Mayor 
COUNTY-CITY BUILDING SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46801 
AREA 219 284·9281OFFICE OF THE MAYOR 

September 12, 1984 

Dear Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Freshmen: 
Welcome to South Bend! These are exciting times for you and for us. For the next four years, you will be active and highly visible members of our community. We want to get to know you better, and we want you to get to know us. Therefore, I invite you to share some time with us this Sunday, September 16th, at the new East Race Waterway when the City of South Bend will sponsor a picnic in your honor. 
Free raft and inner-tube rides down the East Race Waterway. Rubber-soled shoes are required and long pants are strongly recommended. 
Free bus service will be provided from the Notre Dame Circle to the East Race Waterway between 
10:00 a.m. and 4:00p.m. 
Free food and drink will be provided. 

As The Observer forcefully noted on September 3rd, the East Race Waterway is "one of the most creative and unique social options Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students ever.may have known". I'll be riding the rafts and serving refreshments along with members of the City staff, so I certainly hope you will enjoy all the fun with us this coming Sunday. 

Associated Press 
WILMINGTON, N.C. --Hurricane Diana howled into the Carolinas on Thursday, causing more than $25 million damage as it ripped off roofs, toppled power lines and blocked roads with water and debris. At least one looting incident was reported, and many people who had left she!· ters were stranded. 
No deaths or injuries were blamed directly on the storm, which had hovered off the coast most of Wednesday before turning inland just after midnight. 
Diana rapidly lost strength and began breaking up after running Brunswick and New Hanover ashore, but not before it had done so counties, said Gov. jim Hunt, adding much damage that the National that details were sketchy because of Weather Service called it "the worst the difficulty in reaching affected hurricane since Hazel" in the Cape areas. He said he hoped President 

Fear area. Hazel struck Oct. 5-18, Reagan would act quickly on his re­1954, killing 95 people in the United quest for emergency aid. States and causing $280 million An estimated 80 percent or 
worth of property damage. Tor­45,000 of Carolina Power & Ught nadoes that swept eastern North Co.'s customers In and around Wil­Carolina on March 28 caused Ill 00 mington were without power, the 
million in damage and killed 44 utility said. Spokeswoman Kay people. 
Young said it would be Saturday at 
• the earliest before all power could 

Preliminary damage estimates be restored. An additional I0,000 reached $20 million in three small customers lost power In South coastal communities alone, said Carolina, utility officials there said. state Highway Patrol Capt. Robert Thousands of people spent the Barefoot. He listed them as Oak Is· night in emergency shelters in sout­land, Yaupon Beach and Long Beach, heastern North Carolina and north­which he said was "devastated. It is eastern South Carolina, but many very, very severe." people had left shelters to check on 
The state suffered "some very their homes Wednesday when the great damage " with the worst in storm stalled off the coast.
2 

*********************************** 
~ SATURDAY-OPENTOALL!! t 
~ ~ 
~ SCAVENGERHUNT t 
~ Just find as many things on the list as possible and bring ~ il them in to win c:ash prizes!! ~ il il il il 
~ Most Items Found • Biggest Dorm Turnout t 
il ~ il ~ il ~ 
~ -one of Mike Gollc's socks . words to NO Alma Mater il ~ · Mike Kelley's signature . fteldhouse brick ~ ~ -completed add/dropsllp . green toothbrush ~
2) ~ ~ ...,Love ND" painters cap . matches from Tippecanoe ,fi?m~il ·one No. 2 pencil . a CORBY"s hat LM.l il il -speaker wire -packet of McDonald• ketchup @ ~0• ~ il -can of SKOAL -picture of the DOME ~ il ~ -NO football jersey . Bonnie Ooon napkin il _..., · last Monday's Ob•erver . Knute Rockne bronze bu11t ic "?--trivial pursuit card (non-returnable) il ~ . basketball high-top ~ 
*********************************** 
GO 


HAWAIIAN 
(Bring your grass skirt!!) 



DANCE 

Fieldhouse Mall Friday, September 14th 9 p.m. -1 a.m. 

REFRESHMENTS 

' 
The Observer Friday, September 14, 1984 -page 6 
"I am not implying that we should doesn't care if it's fed properly, Cuomo's lecture was followed by and by 6 p.m. the line stretched .. stand by and pretend indifference to housed decently, or educated ade­a short question and answer session around the Fieldhouse Mall and

Cuomo 


continuedfrom page 1 
deal with the problem, and "even if it could be obtained, it wouldn't work." Nor does Cuomo view denying medicaid funding for abor· tions as helping the issue. 
Cuomo does support finding "ways to avoid abortion without ' otherwise violating ourfaith," giving suggestions like providing funds for women to carry their child to term, and teaching men "their responsi· bilities in creating and caring for human life. 
whether a woman takes a pregnancy to its conclusion or aborts it. I believe with regard lO abortion . . . that we can teach a respect for life in practical ways." Cuomo supports the cooperation of both pro-choice and pro-life forces to develop gov· ernment programs to help im· poverished mothers with the support she may need to rear her children, so that abortion eventually may not need to be an option. 
Cuomo hopes to create a society "where the right to life doesn't end at the moment ofbirth; where an in· fant isn't helped into a world that quately." 
According to him, Catholics are "like stewards made responsible over a great household: from those to whom so much has been given, much shall be required." 
Cuomo concluded by saying, " We can be fully Catholic; proudly to­tally at ease with ourselves ... a light to this nation. Appealing to the best in our people, not the worst. Per­suading, not coercing. And still, all the while, respecting and enjoying our unique pluralistic democracy. And we can do it even as politicians." 

from faculty and students. Fielding a question about the difference be· tween capital punishment and abor· tion, he said capital punishment involved the "state taking a life ... a murder," whereas abortion involved "making your own judgment." One response elicited some booing by the audience as he said abortion "isn't killing, it's giving a choice." 
On the whole, however, audience reception was enthusiastic. Cuomo received a standing ovation when he entered, and a three-minute ovation as he left. Students began lining up outside Washington Hall at 4 p.m., 
toward the Administration Building. 

More than 700 additional people watched the speech live on a giant· screen television in the CCE. 
Some pro-life demonstrators gath· ered around Washington Hall praying the rosary and picketing, while others met Cuomo at the CCE. Walking inside, Cuomo stopped to shake the hand and greet one protester. 
After his lecture, Cuomo ap· peared live on ABC's Nightline, with Hesburgh and a contributing editor lO The New Republic Charles Kraut· hammer. 

For the time of your life in college, come to one of our free One Hour Evelyn Wood Seminars. 
We'll show you the way to have more free time by cutting your study time in half. 
While you raise your grade point There's a lot more to college than textbooks, tests, 
and term papers. And Evelyn Wood is the way to enjoy it 
Now's the time to make your move. Bring a friend and join us at our seminar. It's only an hour. It's free. And it's definitely not a waste of time. 
Free Seminar Schedule LOG!ATION: CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION (DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM MORRIS INN ON NOTRE DAME AVE.) -ROOM 200 
~EvelynWood"
SATURDAY 9/15 llam & lpm 
~College Programs 

Choose the day and time most convenient for you. Reservations not necessary. For more information call 1 (800) 447-READ. 



~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~­

View~_O_l_·_n_t_________F_rid-ay_.s...ep-te-mb_e_r1_4,-19-84.......p....ag_e7 

I am a student at the University of Notre Dame who has recently returned from a se­mester program in Mexico and Nicaragua. I realize that none of the world's answers, espe: cially in the political realm are black and white, but after being to Nicaragua and talking to the Nicaraguan people, I feel that the U.S. 
Jennifer Brown 
guest column 

government has definitely been working in the wrong color concerning this Latin Ameri­can country. It has been shutting its eyes just long enough to ignore the millions of Nicaraguans recently reborn in the triumph of their revolution in I ')79. 
The frantic fear which keeps the U.S. gov­ernment's eyes dosed is a fear that one day it will open one eye and see communism creep­ing doser to its horders. This obsession would be justifiahle if Nicaragua was a weak country, a spiritless country full of people who did not care about anything hut food for their hungry, a country who let others run their lives. Nicaragua is not such a country, and the blind­ness of the U.S. government to see this has driven it into a hyped-up frenzy of interven­tion. Absurdly, the present press and many po­litical figures precede the word "Sandinista" with terms such as "soviet-backed," "communistic," and "Marxist-Leninist." The word "Sandinista" should ring of triumph and honor in all lands claiming to be Christian and Democratic. 
Since their revolution in 1979, the Sandinis­tas have raised the literacy in their country to amazing heights; they have set up health clinics and health education in the poorest of barrios; they have stopped the abominable in­fant deaths due to polio; they have initiated massive agrarian reform projects; they have started to rebuild the cities; and they are now organizing a democratic election for the first time in the history of Nicaragua. They have begun to work for the people! Working for the people in Nicaragua means working for the poor. 
I experienced the results of much of the Sandinistas' work. I spoke to the leaders of the health care system who had astounding statis­tics of improved conditions. I visited a cotton farmer who never dreamed he would be able to own his own land. I spoke with former Na­tional Guardsmen of Somoza's regime who lived on a minimum security prison farm. This prison farm was out in the beautiful country 
side where the men grew watermelon, 
papaya, strawberries, corn, squash, onions, 
carrots, and celery. They lived under a strong 
philosophy of"ifyou are treated like a human 
being, you will act like one." I visited a school 
miles and miles from nowhere that had Sandi­
nista teachers helping the shoeless children 
read. The Nicaraguans were a deeply Chris­
tian people who told me that they made a 
clear distinction between the works of my 
government and me. They only looked at me 
with hopeful eyes asking me to go back home 
and let others know of their situation. They 
told me that now that I had seen the truth, I 
had a deep responsibility to myself and to 
them. 
Does this sound like the beginnings of com­munism.? How could a country so motivated by its faith, a country who has learned Christi­anity from firsthand suffering, a country who decided never to be rukd by dictators again, and a country who lost thousands of brothers and sisters in creating the reality of Nicaragua Libre (Free Nicaragua) let any government which promises only bread to a "soul-less" people take over? These Nicaraguans are the most "soul-ful," spirited, motivated people I have ever seen. 
The intervention that our government has been part of is trying to eliminate that spirit of triumph, that spirit which told the Nicaraguan mothers that their sons' death~ were for a cause, for new life in generations to come. 
I think it important to explain that the San­dinistas are not following a Marxist-Leninist course. The state does not control the means of production. It intends to create a system based on four basic principles: mixed eco­nomy, political pluralism, social welfare with emphasis on increased services to the poor, and national sovereignty with non-alignment to either superpower. In order to develop and maintain a mixed economy, Nicaragua must not be aligned, since it is so heavily dependent on foreign aid and credit. 
Nicaragua needs major help and support from capitalist countries like the United States as well as from socialist countries like Cuba. Currently, the policies of our government are forcing Nicaragua to rely more on socialist countries than it wants to. The U.S. govern­ment needs to open its eyes, to stop dealing in the dark with this unique, Latin American country. It is full of such wonderful people, and I promised them I would try to tell you of their struggles. It is so easy to come home and forget, but I will never forget their hopeful eyes. 
jennifer Brown is a senior in the College of Arts & Letters at Notre Dame. 

Judicial Council is a circus under Zahn 
Suppose for a second that Student Government started organizing candy­
cane sales? Or better yet, what if the Supreme Court of the United States 
started funding the performances of the Ice Capades? Ridiculous impos­
sibilities, right? Ofcourse. 
So how does Judicial CounciJ Coordinator Joe Zahn expect students to 
react to his plans to bring a 17-ride carnival to Notre Dame this October? 
The Judicial Council is the highest voice students have in the judicial 
process of this University. It's not a toy. Only two and a half weeks into his 
tenure, Zahn has already destroyed any credibility the council gained last 
year under the leadership of Bob Gleason. 
It is obvious that Zahn, a sophomore with no experience on a dormitory 
judicial board, is using the council to satisfy his own political ambitions. His 
apparent desire to become student body president by 1986 has fogged his 
vision of what the Judicial Council is all about. 
Last week, Zahn urged the Judicial Council to move aggressively in devel­oping an alternate plan to the proposed S3.7 million LaFortune renovation. Ignoring for the moment that Zahn's proposal was weak, uninformed and shallow, the plans to renovate LaFortune have nothing to do with a judiciary board. The council rejected his idea. 
But even more disturbing is Zahn's tendency to win at all costs. This week, a stale leftover from 1984 campus politics --who should count the ballots in the SBP and senate races --emerged again at the student senate meeting. Zahn argued that the Ombudsman Organization has trouble counting to ten and that his council should take control ofrunning all student elections. It was at worst a legitimate argument. 
In lobbying for his proposal, however, Zahn told at least two senators and one Obseroer reporter that Student Body Presidenc Rob Bertino was I00 per­cent in favor of terminating OBUD's control. This is untrue. Bertino has con­sistently declined taking a position on the issue in ord.er to insure a fair debate on the senate floor. Bertino issued a memorandum clarifying the matter, and Zahn once again emerged misinformed. 
Zahn was elected judicial coordinator by a 7-6 vote of the council last May. The other 12 members ofthe council did not vote. The position wasn't Zahn's first choice: he ran for sophomore class president and lost and he applied for student government executive coordinator and wasn't hired. 
So he became Judicial Council coordinator, a job he never really wanted. And now he tells us that he's bringing a circus to town in three weeks. It's a shame the council is faced with such misguided leadership. 
Now more than ever--in this Era of the Alcohol Report--there is a need for the council to defend students' rights. Among the dorms, there are too many inconsistencies in how the new policy is enforced. There will be questions of justice and problems with due process. Students need in the Judicial Council a credible voice to represent their judicial concerns to the administration. 
So far, Joe Zahn has shown no understanding of this role. 
The Observer 



View~_o_i_n__t_.--------F-rid_.ay_,s...ep-te-mb-er_l_4,_19-84-p-ag_e8 
Who knows what tomorrow might bring 


Watch the rhetorical balloon inflate as the 1984 presidential campaign gets into full swing: 
Hear Democrats charge Republicans with favoring the rich at the expense of the poor, the elderly and other dispossessed groups of the country. With creating a confrontational 
Chris Robinson 
·the big picture 

climate vis a vis the Russians, Cubans and other antagonists identified as unfriendly to the U.S. And with pushing religion in the form of prayer into the public schools and as anti­abortion policy into the governmental arena of national life. 
Hear Republicans charge Democrats with pork barrel special interest politics doused with ultraliberalism. Their list of negative aspects is equally long, from shortages at the gas pumps and an over-abundance of choice regarding sexual preference and abortion to weakness in standing up to the global plagues ofcommunism and terrorism. 
Listen closely amidst all the posturing, grandstanding, charges, counter charges, ticker tape entrances and flag waving exits as candidatesflit across the United States seeking voter support. One of the reasons that some people decry the length of these campaign seasons is not so much that important issues can be discussed in a shorter period or even that satellite broadcasting and a proliferation of print news media have the potential to in­form the electorate more rapidly th\ln ever before. It is that candidates basically waste the ample time allotted to them by failing to pres­ent the issues in a thoughtful and reasoned manner. 
Presidential debates, if held at all this year, will probably degenerate into a recitation of past accomplishments coupled with simplis­tic salvos lobbed at the opponent reminiscent of bumper sticker slogans ("I accelerate for people against prayer in the classroom" or "Honkifyou're for world peace"). To stem the tide ofthis verbal avalanche, I sug­gest that campaign rhetoric be reduced to two broad themes: 

1. 
Enhancement of our national character. How to best ensure prosperity for as many segments of society as possible. How to en­hance the rights and freedoms of all individ­uals who comprise the fascinating mosaic of races, religions, professions and interests we call society. How to create an environment of self-fulfillment for our citizens, so that they might live in harmony (as far as possible) with each other and with the surrounding environ­ment. In short, how to identify those qualities which make the United States what it is today, and how best to perpetuate and improve those values for the future. 

2. 
Strategies for world peace. After wres­tling with the concept of national character, how do we present the face ofwho we are (as we exist for ourselves) to the rest of the 


-world, so that we might consider the view­points and needs of others? How do we ap­proach the problem ofreconciling competing interests in an era of increasing scarcities? How do we ameliorate global problems of overpopulation, financial crises resulting from the development of third-world nations, and the tragedy of war and famtne brought about by the clash ofcompeting ideologies? 
Centering political discussions along these lines would raise the standards of public policy considerations and spare us from nar­rowly defined, knee-jerk responses to com­plex issues. Hopefully, not only would voters benefit by having more information (in the best sense ofthe word, as opposed to political ammunition), but the politicians themselves would be the better for having broadened themselves and concurrently, their own base ofsupport. 
Idealistic? Yes. But we have to start some­where. Catching a glimpse of our collective national consciousness is not an easy matter. Nor is taking the first steps toward solving problems ofworld peace. 
But if we don't begin to use our capabilities to confront these issues, who knows what the scenario might be tomorrow? 
Chris Robinson is a doctoral sociology stu­dent atNotre Dame andhas a background in communications. 
P.O.. BoxQ 

Face the issue Father 
Dear Editor: 
Recentlv Father Robert Griffin devoted one of his Letters to a Lonely God columns to an article I wt'Qte on the Notre Dame theology department; "Is Notre Dame Still Catholic?", which appeared in the June, 1984 issue of Fidelity. Unfortunately, rather than discussing the issues I raised, Father Griffin chose to deal in innuendo and ad hominem attacks. 
Those who read his column without having read my article would come away with the im­pression that anyone who dared to question the Catholicity of Notre Dame theologians must be the thrall of personal hang-ups. At­tempting to discredit the writer without dealing with the issues he raises is, quite simply, unfair. It is also bad journalism. Beyond that, the facts of the case would have made a more interesting column. 
Father Griffin neglects to tell Observer readers that my article was based on a survey taken by Christi TePas, an engineering major at Notre Dame. She wanted to know ifher the­ology teachers believed in right wing doctrines like the perpetual virginity of the Blessed Mother, Christ's resurrection from the dead, and the immorality of homosexual activity and abortion. The majority ofthe the­ology department refused to disclose what it believed on these issues -perhaps because they no longer ascribe to the Church's posi­tion and would be embarrassed ifthat became public knowledge. The remainder for the most part gave answers that simply have to be read to be believed. 
I took my cue from the survey and inter­viewed seminarians and theology professors, including the department chairman. 
In the course ofmy research Igot responses that only confirmed Christi's misgivings. One professor, when asked if homosexual activity were always wrong, responded: "Questions like that make me glad I'm not a moral theolo­gian." Of all the "theologians" who signed a recent "pro-choice" manifesto issued by the pro-abortion front group Catholics for Free Choice, only two were teaching at Catholic universities, and both were on the theology faculty at Notre Dame. In the course of one interview, one professor in the theology de­partment even admitted that he was an at­heist. This "theologian" is now teaching Notre Dame students, who are presumably taking his course to learn about their faith. 
If students had read "Is Notre Dame Still Catholic?" they would know who this profes­sor is and could choose their courses accord­ingly. If all they read was Father Griffin's column they'd come away with the idea that the only problem with Notre Dame had to do with my longing to turn the clock back to 1944 and reissue the Baltimore Catechism. 
Perhaps Father Griffen's definition of a Catholic is broad enough to include those who deny the existence of God. But does he really think that such peole should be teach­ing theology? Perhaps he does. I await his an­swer. If Father Griffen thinks that atheist and "pro-choice" theology professors are "profoundly and gloriously Catholic," so be it. He should at least have the courage to face the issue squarely rather than engaging in snide and dishonest attacks on the messenger who brings the bad news. 
E. Michaeljones, Ph.D. Editor, Fidelity 
Kill the killers 
Dear Editors: 
I would like to congratulate Paul Cimino for his fine article, "Adopt the Death Penalty," and I would also like to state publicly that I agree with the article wholeheartedly. It takes courage for a man to admit, in a Catholic uni­versity, that he supports the killing of others, and I admire him for doing so. 
Mr. Cimino's strongest argument is that a man who commits murder should not be allowed to live, and a strong argument it is indeed. This argument lies in accordance with the divine rule: "He who denies a fellow human being the right to live forfeits his own life." Even before the coming of Christ, the Jews understood the basic nature of human justice, the "eye-for-an-eye" philosophy. How can anyone find fault with this? 
Unfortunately, Mr. Cimino missed a key issue in his discussion of the death penalty: how should it be done? Many techniques exist and are being debated, but I have a modest proposal of my own which I hope might solve the controversy. First, the c.ondemned man should be separated from his principal weap­ons of destructio.n, his hands. It would not be too harsh then to pluck out his eyes, and, if the job is not yet done, he should be left alone in a desert, food for the vultures. 

There are some who may call me "inhuman" for my views, but that is ridiculous. I am a Christian and a concerned citizen, who feels that murder is a terrible crime, and the perpetrator of such a crime should not be considered fit to stand civilized trial. Those who kill others are the "inhuman" ones, and I feel they should be killed--no, destroyed--as soon as possible. 
RobertPhillips junior 

·City or campus 
Dear Editor: 

After reading the proposals brought up at the first judicial Council meeting, I became greatly perturbed by one recommendation in particular: Coordinator joe Zahn's alternative plan for the LaFortune Student Center renova­tion project. 
Maybe remodeling the present student cen­ter building is not the ideal solution for improving student facilities, but constructing a completely new facility on the present site of Library 'Mall would adversely affect the relaxing atmosphere of the campus. 
It is often the spaciousness of the Notre Dame campus that people mention when praising the beauty and serenity that abounds. What does Coordinator Zahn want to do, turn the Notre Dame campus into a city? 
Perhaps another location, not in the main­stream of students' leisurely activities, could be chosen. I am not implying that the building be in a remote place, quite to the contrary. It must be easily accessible. The student govern­ment should consider tearing down the old building first to make room for the new one, if they decide against the LaFortune renovation. The Notre Dame campus is swelling with buildings as it is, and will undoubtedly, need room for future expansion. Let's not waste our precious campus acreage on old buildings just so we can have· another study hall. 
DaneGalden Freshman 
Blackey backs Bender 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the Observer ar­
ticle last week concerning Dr. Eileen Bender. 
Bender's contract as an English professor was 
not renewed this year despite unanimous ap­
proval from the English Department. 
The administration of this University even 
ignored the findings of independent 
reviewers who approved the renewal of 
Bender's contract. I think the academic in­
tegrity ofthe whole University has been com­
promised by this questionable and 
high-handed behavior on the part of the ad­
ministration. 
Theoretically, our University is an institu­
tion of higher learning and to have Notre 
Dame let such an academic as Bender go be­
cause ofher sex, age, or religion is disgraceful. 
Personally, I have been denied the experience 
of one of the most able and rewarding profes­
sors I've ever had the privilege to know. 
The loss of a scholar of Bender's high 
caliber is unnecessary and unexcusable. 
Anne Blakey Senior 
Wildly inaccurate 
Dear Editor: 
In a letter to the Observer focusing on the 
failures of the Reagan administration, eco­
nomics graduate student Michael Varga points 
to the "33 percent ofAmericans with incomes .below the poverty level in 1982." 
Although perhaps many of Mike's teachers and colleagues in the economics department are so pessimistic that such a figure could seem plausible to him, to less impassioned ob­.servers ofAmerican economic performance it must surely stand out as wildly inaccurate. I think maybe Mike should have said "33 mil­lion Americans," instead of "33 percent of 
Americans." 
james Rakowski AssociateProfessor, Economics 

The Obser¥er __ Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Editor-in-Chief. . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . . .. Dave Taiclet Managing Editor .... Mark Worscheh Controller . . ..... Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor..... .. Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager. . ..Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . . . . . . .. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . . ...... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor . . . . . . . . . . Dan McCullough Systems Manager. . . . . Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Mor:~astyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor. . .... Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966

community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor . . . Mary Healy 1s encouraged. Photo Ed1tor. . Pete Laches 

a sp~rts supplement ~'1111.: . t b 
page 9 :~ 5epem er 14, 1984 

Spartans try for second in a row over Irish 

Nl:? needs win over MSU to avenge last year's loss and get back on winning track 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
George Perlcs, head coach of the Michigan State 

. Spartans, is not the type of person who is intimidated fby the Notre Dame mystique. But at the same time, Perles is well aware of the amount of talent on the Irish squad. So the Spartan coach is cautious and com­plimentary in his remarks about Notre Dame as Saturday's clash in Spartan Stadium draws near. 
"When you look at Notre Dame," says Perles, "they are big, strong, and are some of the best football players that have been recruited over the past three years. 1bey have more publicized players than any other team in America. It is onJy right that everyone points to them. The motivation is there because they lost to Purdue and we beat them last year." 
Perles' remarks arc certainly accurate. Few will dispute the statement that the '84 Irish have plenty of talent. Likewise, the motivating factors for Saturday's game are pretty clear. But, as Notre Dame fans saw last week, talent and motivation are often not enough to win a college football game. Whether or not the Irish can find tlie missing ingredients and put it all together on Saturday remains to be seen. 
Bt.>ating the Spartans will certainly be no easy task, however. Michigan State returns 42letterman and 15 starters for the 1984 season, and looked very sharp for three quarters in a 24-21 victory over Colorado last week. 
Michigan State's offense against Notre Dame's defense: 
Rest assured that Perles and the rest of the Spartan coaching staff are well aware ofNotre Dame's weakness · pass defense. Add that to the fact that Michigan State has a proven quarterback in sophomore Dave Yarema, and the obvious conclusion 
The Enforcer 

Safety Joe Johnson lays down the law 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Wrl ter 
For many athletes, being able to play football at Notre Dame is a life-long dream. For hard-hitting, tri-captalnJoe Johnson, however, football under the Golden Dome was not even a consideration until he was recruited his senior year in high school. 
"I thought I was going to Ohio State until one day when I was asked If I wanted to visit Notre Dame. Ofcourse, I had heard of Notre Dame, but I wasn't sure wharlt was like," says the 6-2, 192-pounder from Fostoria, Ohio. "I figured it would be be crazy for me not to visit. Looking b:.tck now, after all the people I've met and the great experiences I've had, if I had to make the same decision over, I would certainly choose Notre Dame again." 
Football ha.~ been very good to Johnson, who has seen conslstem duty In the Irish defensive backfield ever since his freshman campaign. And, ofcourse, Johnson ha.~ been a valuable commodity for Notre Dame a.~ well. 
"His leadership on the field Is excellent," says defensive coordinator and secondary coach Andy Christoff. "'llle enthusiasm with which he plays Is good for the team." 
In 1981,Johnson led all freshmen on defense in minutes played while earning a monogram as free safety. He appeared In all I I games, and even earned a starting assignment against Michigan State. 
During his sophomore year at strong safety, he finished sixth on the team with 49 tackles while starting all II games. Included among his total were six tackles for negative yardage and three sacks. 
111e 1983 season saw Johnson once again start I I games at strong safety. He missed only the Colorado game because ofa shoulder injury. His four top outings came against South Carolina, Miami, Navy and Penn State. He had eight tackles 
against Carolina and seven each against the other three. 
After receiving the Hering Award as the best defensive back during 1984 spring drills and despite last weekend's loss to Purdue, johnson is optimistic about his final sea.'ion. 
"We have so much ability that often goes unnoticed until we play against each other in practice," says the senior sociology major. "After a loss like Purdue, we can't get down on ourselves. We now realize that we have to be ready every game, and not make unnecessary mistakes. Ifwe continue to believe in ourselves like I know we do, once we get that one good game, we'll get going." 
In the last several seasons the Notre Dame secondary ha.'i been highly criticized for its vul­nerability to teams with agood pa.'ising attack. Having been a part of that secondary since the beginning ofhis Notre Dame career,Johnson realizes that there are weaknesses, but his own personal philosophy enables him to deal with the criticism and go on without being affected by it. 
"'lbere are 1 I guys on defense and sure a lot of passing yards given up may be the backs fault, but not all the time. Even. when a lot of running yards are given up, it doesn't mean it's not the second­ary's fault also," he says. "We must stick together as a unit to meet the challenge. The only way to get rid of the criticism is to go out and play the way we know we can. Ifwe start to worry about what people say, we're going to make mistakes. Per­sonally, Ifin my own mind I played the best I can, then I can't ask anymore of myself." 
Head coach Gerry Faust ha.~ also received a lot of criticism in his first three seasons, and Johnson, 
see JOE, page 11 
is that the Spartans will be doing plenty of passing on Saturday. · 
Yarema beat the Irish with the big play a year ago and did the same to Colorado last week, connecting on touchdown passes of 35 and 56 yards, enroute to a 9-for-13, 145-yard day. 
"The key to our defense is what kind ofpass rush we can get against quarterbacks like this," says Irish head coach Gerry Faust ofYarema. "We didn't do a good job last year· against Yarema and he hurt us. We really didn't do too much better Saturday against Purdue until (defensive tackle) Mike Gann made a big play late in the gamt.> to force them to punt." 
There should be plenty of action in the the trenches, however, because the Spartans have an experienced 
see SPARTANS, page 10 
Joe Johnson Irish safety 




, 
r r r 
r 
~ 
,..
,. 
r
"' 
r 
~ 
r 
,. 
,. 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r
,.
,. 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
f 
r 
r 
r 
r 
, 
r 
~ 
r r 
r 
MICHIGAN STATE September 14, 1984 -page 1 0 

The Man with the De 
Spartan kicker Mojsiejenko once again 

continued from page 9 
offensive line featuring seven rerturning lettermen. The 
Spartans average 255 pounds across the offensive front, and 
the line is anchored by 6-3, 261-pound senior center Mike 
Napolitan. 
On the other side of the scrimmage line, the Irish boast plenty ofsize, speed, and depth in their defensive line. With five proven performers working at three positions, Notre Dame should be able to mount a pass rush with their down linemen. In order to put substantial pressure on Yarema, however, the Irish will need solid play from their lineback­ers, an integral part of the pass rush in a 3-4 defensive alignment. 
Beset by injuries, the linebacking corps wit! be under a lot ofpressure. Without the services of Mike Larkin, and with Mike Golic listed as doubtful for the game with a shoulder injury, the Irish will be forced to go with sophomore Robert Banks and freshman Cedric Figaro at the outside linebacker spots. Neither has much game experience, and both will be targets of the MSU offense. 
"Figaro is a freshman who we think will be a very good player and Banks played a reasonable amount last year," says 

George Perles 
MSU head coach 
ByJOE BRUNEm 
Sports Writer 

After nearly a year, most people probably do not remember who was the real hero in Michigan State's 28-23 upset of Notre Dame last season. 
Spartan quarterback Dave Yarema looked impres­sive in the MSU win, but the real credit went to State's inconspicuous kicker Ralf Mojsiejenko. 
"He was the difference in the game," commented Irish coach Gerry Faust after last year's loss to State. 
Yarema connected on 15 of 23 passes for 165 yards, but it was Mojsienjenko's punt average of nearly 50 yards that really pinned the Irish against the wall. 
It seems strange to think ofa kicker as a weapon, but that's what Mojsienjenko is. And Notre Dame offensive coordinator Ron Hudson agrees. 
"There's no way to neutralize Mojsienjenko," says Hudson. "He's good. He's a star. We're just going to have to struggle with it. Maybe he won't have a good day, but I doubt it." 
The chances ofthe 1983 first-teamSporting News All-American having a poor game are slim. Last year he averaged almost 44 yards per punt, fifth best in the nation. He also has booted 43 punts for more than 50 yards. 
If Mojsienjenko has a day like he did in last year's 
Ralf Mojsiejenko 
MSU kicker 
game, the Irish definitely may have some problems. The Spartan senior amassed a 48.8-yard punting average in that game that constantly forced Notre 
Dame to start with poor field position. After getting his 
Faust. "They'll certainly improve as they get some games 
under their belt. You hate to lose people wi£ll the talent and 
experience that Golic and Larkin have." 

Yarema's primary receivers will be senior split end Larry Jackson (three receptions last week) and sophomore flanker Mark Ingram who caught a 35-yard TO pass against Colorado). Tight end Butch Rolle, a 6-4, 235-pound junior, caught two passes against Notre Dame last year. 
The Irish secondary, which took a beating against Purdue, will have to rise to the occasion ifNotre Dame is to avert another aerial disaster likeJim Everett's 20-for-28, 255-yard performance last week. 
"We knew coming in that our secondary was going to be young and somewhat inexperienced with two sophomores back there," says Faust. "We have to expect opposing teams to test them, just the way Everett did last Saturday. They'll do a better job back there with experience as the season goes along, but for now we have to work that much harder in that area. But we can't expect our secondary to perform miracles ifwe give the quarterback so much time to throw." 
The Spartans can move the ball on the ground too, as their 
148 yards ofrushing offense will attest. Tailback Carl Butler, 
a 5·11, 221-pound senior, led the MSU rushing parade last 
week with 69 yards. The Spartans also have senior Aaron 
Roberts and sophomore Bobby Morse at the tailback spot. 
Sophomore Keith Gates, a six-foot, 206-pounder, holds down 
the starting fullback spot. 

"Michigan State really got a nice mix ofyardage against 
Colorado," says Faust. "Yarema is a proven quarterback, 
Butler is impressive at tailback, and they have good speed at 
the other skill positions, too." 

Despite their confidence in the running game, will the 
Spartans rely primarily on the pass Saturday? 

"It all depends," says Perles. "We're ready to go into the 
game thinking we're going to run the ball half the time and 
throw half the time." 
Don't believe everything you hear. 

Notre Dame's offense against Michigan State's 
defense: 

There's no doubt that in order to score consistently 
against MSU, the Irish will have to execute much better than 
they did last week. Notre Dame has plenty ofweapons on 
offense, but a week ago it was a case of them beating 
themselves. 

"I really can't complain about the way we moved the ball 
against Purdue," says Faust. "We simply hurt ourselves with 
the turnovers and penalties and mental mistakes. We can't do 
that and expect to beat people." 

All-America tailback Allen Pinkett will attract a lot of 
attention once again. The Spartan defense will undoubtedly 
be keying on Notre Dame's top offensive weapon, and this is 
a defense that can shut down a team's ground game. Just ask 
Colorado-whose 35 rushing attempts netted just 14 yards 
last week. 

MSU is led by all-star linebackerJim Morissey ( 14 tackles 
against NO last year) and junior free safety Phil Parker (two 
interceptions against the Irish last year). 

"Michigan State just completely shut offColorado's ability 
to run the football," says Faust. "They've got tough, physical 
people in there and we'll have to earn every yard we gain 
against them. Obviously, we've seen what Morrissey and 
Parker can do." 

The numbers on the line weigh heavily in Notre Dame's 
favor. With an offensive line that rivals most pro teams in second wind in the second half, Mojsienjenko hit punts of 47, 57, 58, and 71 yards. Five ofMojsien­jenko's punts pinned the Irish inside their own 20, and six landed inside the Irish 30. 
"We're probably not going to have good field position unless Michigan State turns it over," says Hudson. "In that case we're going to have to be very patient and mistake-free in our drives." 
If the Irish get some turnovers they can keep Mojsienjenko off the field and that's the best way to stifle his leg. If they don't get the turnovers then they 
Ralf Mojsiejenko's Record against NO 
27 punts, 1277 yards 47.3-yard average per punt 
50-yard field goal in 1982 

• • • Spartans 
size, the Irish have the ability to control the line of 
scrimmage. The only potential problem concerns the 

availability ofall-America guard Larry Williams, who is listed 
as doubtful with an ankle injury. 

But even with all its size, Notre Dame did not control the 
line play in last week's game, as Faust readily admits. · 
"We didn't come off the ball as well as I thought we 
would," says Faust. "We didn't dominate the line of 

scrimmage at all, and, because of that, Purdue ended up 
controlling the ball for nine more minutes than we did." 
The Spartan defensive line lacks size, but has quickness. All 
four starters return from 1983, led by senior ends Kelly 
Quinn and Tom Allan. If the speedier Spartans can out· 

maneuver the stronger Irish in the trenches, then it could 
spell trouble for quarterback Steve Beuerlein. 
IfBeuerlein gets good protection, however, then he 

should be able to find some open receivers. Most of the 
yardage that MSU gave up last week came via the pass, as 
Colorado completed 25 of 48 passes for 344 yards. 

Offensively, Notre Dame will need better play selection, 
improved consistency, and fewer mistakes ifthey hope to 
put some points up on the board against MSU. 
The kicking game and specialty teams: 

The Irish kickers didn't get much work last week, as sophomore placekickerJohn Carney hit on all three extra-point attempts, and senior Mike Viracola punted only twice for a 38.5 average, as five NO possessions ended in turnovers. 
Notre Dame fans saw first hand the importance of specialty 
teams last week, as a fumbled kickoff and a twelfth-mao-on­
the-field penalty opened the gates for Purdue points. 

The Irish averaged less than five yards per punt return, and less than 18 yards per kickoffreturn. Improvement in these areas would make the whole offense more productive. 
Michigan State has a true weapon in the person of Ralf Mojsiejenko. One of the top kickers in the country, Moj­siejenko had 47-yard field goal in last week's Colorado game, and had four punts of49 yards or longer. 
Mojsiejenko has always done well against the Irish. In his career against NO, he has punted 27 times for a 47.3 average. He also kicked a 50-yard field goal against the Irish in 1982. 
"A guy like Mojsiejenko can do a great job of keeping the other team from ever having good field position," says Faust. "As long as Michigan State doesn't turn the ball over, he forces you to start deep in your own territory every time you get the football." 
The keys to the game: 

On paper, the Irish have the personnel to play with almost any team in the country. But, then again, they have for the past three years. 
"We simply have to play harder this week and execute," says Faust. "There's no question that Michigan State is going to be tough to handle in East Lansing. We just can't be our own worst enemy the way we were in our opener. We can be a very good football team as long as we play smart and hold onto the football. It's tough to lose the first time out. We were disapointed, but we only have ourselves to blame." 
The key to the game is simple. Michigan State can't beat Notre Dame. The only team that can beat the Irish on Saturday is Notre Dame. If the Irish can avoid costly errors, and play solid, agressive defense, and consistent, intelligent offense, then they will win. If they can't, they won't. 
By the way, it'll be a long, long road back to the Top 20 if the Irish don't win this one. 




MICHIGAN STATE September 14, 1984. page 11

lr1sb Extra 
George Pcrles. "He can deliver the long field goal or the big punt when you need one." When your opponent has a kicker like Mojsienjenko 

ly Leg 
you need an exceptional game from your own kickers 
YOUR
just to attempt to counterbalance Mojsienjcnko's play. That and a few turnovers arc what the Irish are going


pes to bottle up Irish 
to need to numb the pain of Mojsienjenko's kicking. "We need some turnovers to balance out his effect 

SCORECARD
will be forced to complete some very long drives. so that we have better field position," says Hudson. Last year the Irish didn't display either patience or "When we punt we need to get it inside their 10 as 
errorless execution when forced to start deep in their much as we can.'" own territory. When trapped insidt· its own 30, Notre On the opposite side of the field the Irish will field Dame was forced to punt three times, was intercepted two inexperienced kickers in John Carney and punter once, and turned the ball over on downs another time. Mike Viracola. After earning a letter in 1983, Carney 
The Irish did manage one touchdown on an 88-yard has proven that he has the ability to hit the end zone drive in the first half. Obviously, last year the Irish on the kickoff, but the sophomore still remains didn't show the poise that Hudson wants the Irish to 
untested in the field-goal department. However, display this year when hit with poor field position. 
against Purdue Carney did connect on all three PAT's. Not only can Mojsienjenko's punting leg kill a team, 
The Irish will be in good shape if his field goal leg is as 

When the Irish 
hut he also ha~ a deadly kicking leg for both field goals 
accurate as his kickoff leg. and kkkoffs. Last year against Notre Dame, the physical education major kicked four out ofhis five Viracola, a senior, still remains virtually untested in a 
line up on offense
kickoff~ into or through the end zone. lbe Irish never game situation. Against the Boilers he punted only 
started a drive after a kickoffoutside their 20. Any twice for a 38. 5-yard average, but he has yet to be 
J
coach would call that bad fidd position. tested in a clutch situation. 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE MICHIGAN STATE DEFENSE 
"A guy like Mojsienjenko can do a great job of After last week's performance the receiving side of 
POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL LE 93 Kelly Quinn 6-2 227 Jr. 
SE 17 Joe Howard 5-9 171 Sr. 69 Allen Moore 6-5 253 Sr.
kt·eplng the other tt·am from ever having good field Notre Dame's special teams may also leave a question 
17 Alvin Miller 6-4 208 So. LT '!iT Jim Rinella 5-10 204 Jr. QT 62 Ron Plantz 6-4 271 Jr. 56 David Wolff 6-4 237 So.
position," says Faust. "He forces you to start deep in mark in many people's minds. The opening kickoff was 
your own territory every time you get the football." fumbled and turned over by freshman Tim Brown. 
53 Tom Doerger 6-5 272 Sr. RT 94 Joe Curran 6-0 264 Jr. 
Mojsienjcnko didn't have a chance to attempt a field Sophomore Alonzo Jefferson also bobbled two punts 
QG 54 Tim Scannell 6-4 277 Jr. 76 James Paller 6-2 235 Jr. 
and one kickoff. 

73 Jerry Weinle 6-3 251 Sr. RE 59 Tom Allan 6-2 235 Sr.
goal in last year's game, but he proved his ability 
I

c 63 Mike Kelley 6-5 266 Sr. 82 Warren Lester 6-6 236 Jr. 
41

throughout the rest of the season. Four of his eleven "The ball handling was OK (on special teams)," says 
66 Rob Finnegan 6-3 246 Sr. OLB 28 TomTyree 6-1 185 So. 
~

field goals were longt·r than forty yards including a Hudson. "They need to squeeze the ball harder (to 
SG 72 John Askin 6-6 271 So. 52 Derek Bunch 6-3 215 Sr. 
~

59·yarder against Purdue which sailed through the avoid fumbling). They also said the lights were 
75 Larry Williams 6-6 276 Sr. MLB 40 Jim Morrissey 6-3 215 Sr. 
uprights as time ran out enabling MSU to tie the terrible. I think Brown was just nervous. I'm sure it 
ST 76 Mike Perrino 6-5 274 Jr. 6 John Jones 6-0 219 Jr. 
52 Shawn Heffern 6-5 254 Jr. OLB 51 Anthony Bell 6-3 227 Jr. TE 82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 242 Jr. 41 Shane Bullough 6-1 210 So. 
Boilers. 'lbt•rt·'s no doubt that this kicker can hit them was just first game jitters." 
In the dutch. In his first collegiate attempt he hit a If time is running out, though, Perles is going to have 
88 Ricky Gray 6-4 232 Sr. LCB 36 Lonnie Young 6-2 186 Sr. 
61-yardcr. the advantage because he can call on his human 
QB 7 Steve Bauerlein 6-3 203 So. 47 Carter Kamana 5-11 174 Sr. 
"Ralf is poised and experienced," says State coach kicking machine to decide the outcome. 
10 Scott Grooms 6-2 197 Sr. ss 39 Paul Bobbitt 6-3 193 So. FB 35 Mark Brooks 6-3 228 Sr. 13 Dean Altobelli 5-9 188 Jr. 32 Chris Smith 6-2 231 Sr. FS 32 Phil Parker 5-11 184 Jr. TB 20 Allen Pinkett 5-9 183 Jr. 22 Robert Stradley 6-3 195 Fr. 3 Alonzo Jefferson 5-9 187 So. RCB 1 0 Terry Lewis • 5-11 193 Sr. FL 6 Milt Jackson 6-0 181 Jr. 24 Donavan Taylor 5-10 180 So.
• • • Joe 

83 Reggie Ward 5-11 175 Fr. K 2 Ralf Mojslejenko 6-2 203 Sr. 
continued from page 9 

p 80 Mike Vlracola 5-11 186 Sr. 
now in his fourth season under here. One thing people really don't Faust, speaks highly of his coach. realize, and I think it's hard for 
"He was a big reason why I came people to realize, is that he came from high school to college and had to make the same adjustments we've had to," states Johnson. "I really wish that things would have gone better for him so far, but things just haven't fallen into place. 

When the Spartans
He's recruited the best players and he'll do anything for them, but a coach can only do so much coach­

I i ne up on offense
ing. We've got to take it upon our­selves to play our best. Ifwe play 

MICHIGAN STATE OFFENSE NOTRE DAME DEFENSE
like we can, there's no reason why 

POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL OLB 56 Robert Banks 6-5 234 So. Coach Faust can't be a~ successful 
SE 33 Larry Jackson 5-10 173 Sr. 87 JoeBars 6-5 237 Sr. 
19 John Hurt 5-11 165 Sr. LT 78 MlkeGann 6-5 256 Sr. LT 71 Doug Rogers 6-3 253 So. 90 Tom Rehder 6·7 251 So. 72 Mark Fincher 6-6 293 So. NT 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 254 So. 
as previous coaches here." 
Putting the critical a~pects of the 

LG 65 AIAkana 6-1 253 Jr. 71 Eric Dorsey 6-5 265 Jr. 
team aside, Johnson's aggressive 

60 Pat Shurmer 6-1 221 So. RT 96 Wally Kleine 6-8 278 So. play is an asset he takes great pride 
c 63 Mark Napolitan 6-3 261 Sr. 92 Greg Dingens 6-5 254 Jr. 50 Kevin Butts 6-1 256 Fr. OLB 48 Cedric Figaro 6-3 235 Fr.
in. He bdieves that any player can 

RG 73 John 85 Brian Behmer 6-6 232 Sr. 
be good ifhe only wants to be. 

Wojciechowski 6-5 252 Jr. ILB 49 Mike Kovaleski 6-2 218 So. "Football is 80-85 percent mental," 
62 Mitch Wachman 6-2 243 So. 36 Ron Weissen-
RT 68 Steve Bogdalek 6-4 257 Jr. haler 6-3 227 Jr. 77 John McDowell 6-4 272 So. ILB 58 Tony Furjanlc 6-2 231 Jr. 
he says. ''I'm not that big compared 
to some backs, but ifl hit hard, 

TE 89 Butch Rolle 6-4 235 Jr. 45 John McCabe 6-3 228 Jr.
maybe I can intimidate other 

95 Vena Belk 6-3 220 Jr. LCB 12 Troy Wilson 5-11 173 So. players. It hurts me just as much as 
QB 14 Dave Yarema 6-3 203 So. 25 Marv Spence 5-11 183 So. 
23 Clark Brown 6-2 211 So. RCB 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 190 Jr.
the guy I hit, but getting up and 

FB 26 Keith Gates 6-0 206 So. 1 Mike Haywood 5-11 179 Jr.
Mark Bavaro 
going on play after play is just a 

17 Stephen Adams 6-0 193 Fr. ss 27 Joe Johnson 6-2 192 Sr. 
matter ofwho wants it more." 

TB 49 Carl Butler 5-11 221 Sr. 19 James Bobb 6-1 185 So.
Irish tight end 
21 Bobby Morse 5-10 199 So. FS 23 Steve Lawrence 6-0 186 So. FL 11 Mark Ingram 5-11 186 So. 33 Hiawatha Fran-
Being captain is something spe­

8 Glennard Smith 5-6 150 Fr. cisco 5-10 192 So.
cial for Johnson and being able to 

p 2 Ralf Mojslejenko 6-2 203 Sr. K 18 John Carney 5-10 170 So. get the job done is one of the 
16 Pat Chura 5-6 150 So. 
reasons he believes his teammates chose him as captain. "It's really an honor. I'm one ofa select few ofall Notre Dame fotball players, and I'm really proud to be a Notre Dame captain," he says. "I think I lead best 
~ 
by example on the field. I'm not a 
real 'rah rah' type. On the field I'm 
really into the game, but when it's 
~ 
over, I try to keep it away from my 

-
personal life." 
When school at Notre Dame is finished, johnson has several possi· bilities under consideration for his future. "I'd like to try pro ball," he says. "I have to give it a shot if I get the opportunity, because later in life I might regret not trying out." 
Graduate school, law enforce­ment or employment a~ a stock· broker are other considerations for johnson. "Notre Dame hao; meant a lot to me both athletically and academically," he says. "It is the epitomy of both worlds, so I just want to go out and know that I'm making the best of what I've received here as both an athlete and a student." 

-l 


MICHIGAN STATE September 14, 1984 -page 12
insb Extra 
NOTRE DAME VS. MICHIGAN STATE 
-
THE STATISTICS

THE GAME 
The 

TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP SCORING GTD PA R·PA S FG TP
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Michigan State Spartans 
-----------------------------·--------------------------­
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 330 379 Pinkett 1 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12
SITE: Spartan Stadium ( 76,000) 
Total Plays 57 71 Brooks 1 1 0-0 o-o o 0-0 6
Upset

TIME: 12 noon EST; Saturday, Sept. 15, 1984 
Yards per Play 5.8 5.3 Carney 1 0 3-3 0-0 0 0-0 3 IV-RADIO: WNDU-lV(Ch. 16) 
Yards per Game 330.0 379.0 ------------------­

PENALTIES-YARDS 6-40 8-80 NO 3 3-3 0-0 0 0-0 21 FUMBLES-LOST 3-2 0-0 OPP 2 2-2 0-0 0 3-3 23 
Jack Nolan and JeffJeffers 
September 17,1964 

TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 21 22
Michigan State 7 14 0 7 28 
By Rushing 6 5
TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
Notre Dame 14 7 0 2 23 

By Passing 13 15 DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FA BK
Harry Kalas and George Connor 

By Penalty 2 2 ------------------­Scoring 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 8-5 14-6 Johnson 11 0-0 1 0 0 Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network 
NO -Bavaro 2 pass from Kiel (Johnston kick) 

Percentage .625 .429 Furjanic 11 0-0 0 0 0 
MSU -Turner 8\ pass from Yarema (Mojsiejenko 

POSSESSION TIME 25:26 34:34 Banks 9 0-0 0 0 0
Tony Roberts, AI Wester, Luther Bradley 
kick) 

Minutes per Game 25:26 34:34 Kovaleski 8 1-3 0 0 0
NO -Bell 50 run (Johnston kick)
WNDU-AM 1500 

Wilson 6 0-0 0 0 0
MSU-Butler 34 run (Mojsiejenko kick) 

Lawrence 5 0-0 0 0 0
MSU-Tumer 14 pass from Yarema (Mojsiejenko PASSING G NO co PCT INT YDS TO Ball age 5 0-0 0 0 0
kick) NO-Howard 13 pass from Kiel (Johnston kick) 

SERIES: Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 17, ties 1 
---------------------------------------------------------Ding ens 5 0-0 0 0 0
LAST MEETING: September 1 7, 1983 
MSU-Rolle 5 pass from Yarema (Mojsiejenko kick) 

Beuerlein 1 20 13 .650 3 233 0 Griffin 4 0-0 0 0 0
Michigan State 28, Notre Dame 23 
ND-Team safety 

---------------------------------------------------------Kleine 3 1-1 0 0 0 NO 1 20 13 .650 3 233 0 Figaro 3 0-0 0 0 0 OPP 1 28 20 .714 1 255 2 Gann 2 1-18 0 0 0
MSU NO First downs 9 25 

RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Michigan State unranked 
Francisco 2 0-0 0 0 0
TICKETS: Game will be sold out 
Golic 1 0-0 0 0 0 Net Yards Rushing 60 283 
Rushing attempts 29 60 

RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
Bavaro 1 0-0 0 0 0 Net Yards Passing 165 163 
-------------------Howard 1 0-0 0 0 0 
Passes comp-attempted 15-23 15-31 

Pinkett 22 69 3.1 2 11 
Perrino 1 0-0 0 0 0
Had intercepted 0 3 

Brooks 8 29 3.6 1 12 Dorsey 1 0-0 0 0 0
Total Net Yards 225 446 

smith 3 1 0.3 0 2
Fumbles-lost 1-1 4-1 

Beuerlein 4 -2 -0.5 0 5 
NOTRE DAME 79 3-22 1 0 0 Punts-average 9-49 8-44 
Penalties-yards 3-24 9-69 

NOTRE DAME 37 97 2.6 3 12 
OPPONENTS 43 124 2.9 0 17 
-------------------OPPONENTS 59 7-20 0 2 0 

NOTRE DAME  MICHIGAN STATE  lndlvldu•l L..der•  PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LG  
RUSHING-Michtgan State: Butler 18-98; Turner 1­ --------------------------------------------------------­ 
SEPT. 8lost to Purdue, 23-21  SEPT. 8 def. Colorado, 24-21  2; Altobelli t-1; Morse 2-1; Yarema 7--42; Notre  RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG  Viracola 2 77 38.5 47  
SEPT. 1 5 at Michigan State  SEPT. 15 NOTRE DAME  Dame: Bell 18-114; Pinkett 25-104; Smith 7-40;  ------------------­ ~-------------------------------------------------------­ 
Brooks 2-12; Kiel7-7; Howard 1-6;  
SEPT. 22 COLORADO  SEPT. 22 at Illinois  Howard 3 61 20.3 0 26  NOTRE DAME 2 77 38.5 47  
SEPT. 29 at Missouri  SEPT. 29 PURDUE  Bavaro 3 55 18.3 0 24  OPPONENTS 4 163 40.7 48  
PASSING-Michigan State: Yarema 15-23-0,165;  Jackson 2 38 19.0 0 26 
OCT.6MIAMI  OCT. 6 at Michigan  Notre Dame: Kiel15-31-3,163;  
Brown 1 19 19.0 0 19  KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO LG  
OCT. 13 AIR FORCE  OCT. 13 INDIANA  Smith 1 18 18.0 0 18  --------------------------------------------------------­ 
OCT. 20 SOUTH CAROUNA  OCT. 20 OHIO STATE  RECEIVING-Michigan State: Turner 4-1 09; Morse  Miller 1 15 15.0 0 15  Jefferson 2 40 20.Q 0 21 
4-39; Butler 4-1; Rolle 2-13; Altobelli 1-5; Notre  
OCT. 27 at L.S.U.  OCT. 27 at Minnesota  Dame: Howard 4-51; Bell 3-20; Jackson 2-34; Smith  Pinkett 1 14 14.0 0 14  Miller 1 21 21.0 0 21  
Brooks 1 13 13.0 0 13  Brown 1 10 10.0 0 10 
NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands  NOV. 3 NORTHWESTERN  2-27; Bavaro 2-17; Pinkett 2-14;  
------------------­ ~~~-----------------------------------------------------­ 
NOV.17PENNSTJ\TE  NOV. 10 at Iowa  NOTRE DAME 13 233 17.9 0 26  NOTRE DAME 4 71 17.8 0 21  
NOV. 24 at Southern Cal  NOV. 17 WISCONSIN  Attendance-59.075 (c)  OPPONENTS 20 255 12.6 2 36  OPPONENTS 2 25 12.5 0 15  


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

- compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the  Mike Sullivan Sports Editor 6-6 .500  Larry Burke Sports Writer 5-7 .417  JeffBiumb Asst. Sports Editor 4-8 .333  Theron Roberts Sports Writer 3-9 .250  Ed Domensky Sports Writer 2-10 .167  Fr. Griffin Guest Celebrity 6-6 .500  Patti Chopp Random Student 7-5 .583  
underdog points. Home team is in  
CAPS.  
NORTH CAROUNA over Navy by 14  Heels  Middies  Middies  Heels  Middies  Middies  Heels  
MICHIGAN over Washington by 5  Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  
PITTSBURGH over Oklahoma by 3.5  Panthers  Sooners  Panthers  Panthers  Sooners  Sooners  Sooners  
Alabama over GEORGIA TECH by 7  Tide  Tide  Tide  Tide  Tide  Jackets  Jackets  
OHIO STATE over Washington State by 9  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  
Kentucky over INDIANA by 5.5  Wildcats  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Wildcats  
IOWA over Penn State by 6  Hawkeyes  Lions  Lions  Lions  Hawkeyes  Hawkeyes  Lions  
MISSOURI over Wisconsin by 9  Tigers  Tigers  Badgers  Badgers  Tigers  Badgers  Badgers  
Miami over PURDUE by 13  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  
Syracuse over NORTHWESTERN by 13.5  Orangemen  Orangemen  Orangemen  Wildcats  Wildcats  Orangemen  Orangemen  
Illinois over STANFORD by 7.5  Cardinal  Illini  Illini  Illini  Cardinal  Cardinal  Illini  
Auburn over TEXAS by 2  Tigers  Tigers  Longhorns  Tigers  Longhorns  Tigers  Longhorns  
Notre Dame over MICHIGAN STATE by 6  Irish  Irish  Irish  Spartans  Irish  Irish  Irish  

-


Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Women's GolfClub will hold 
a mandatory meeting Monday, September 17 at 7 p.m. at Corby Hall. Any member unable to attend should calljane or Father Knoll. -Tbe Obseroer 
The men's and women's basketball 
teams will play each other in a soft.ball game this Sunday, September 16, at 3:30 p.m. across the street from Moreau. All are invited to come cheer on their favorite players and coaches. -Tbe Obseroer 
The women's cross-country team of 
Notre Dame will travel to Hillsdale, Mich. tomorrow to compete against seven teams from Michigan and Indiana in the Third Annual Hillsdale Invitational. Veteran Mike Glynn returns as head coach of the Irish this year, with assistance from senior Carrie Rowe. -Tbe ()bs£>roer 
Friday, Septelber 14, 1984 -page 13 

JoJo Buchanan, former basketball player at Notre Dame who left this fall, has enrolled at Cal-Irvine and now Is attend­ing classes there. Buchanan, who played two injury-filled seasons with the Irish, will be eligible to play in the 1985-86 season. -The Obseroer 
The men's volleyball club will hold tryouts 
next Tuesday and Wednesday, September 18 and 19, at 7 p.m. in the ACC pit. All interested may tryout. -The Obseroer 
The SaintMary's tennis teamseason opener at Illinois-Chicago yesterday was cancelled because of rain. The Belles will open their season instead tomorrow morning at Anderson Col­lege. Tomorrow afternoon, the team will take on Northern Ken­tucky at Butler, and Butler will be the Belles' opponent on Sunday. ­The Obseroer 
Fall 
continuedfrom page 20 
Into the season after having com­pleted a summer with Gallo In the Cape Cod League, where both per­formed well. 
With 12 incoming freshmen, Gallo has many players with prom­ise. Three of the freshmen he is counting on are Paul Mauk, Kevin Chenail and Gary Sasse. Chenail was recently drafted by the Cleveland In­dians. 
Even though Notre Dame cannot play any teams from the Big Ten during the fall, there will be plenty of competion for the Irish, as they play a 16-game fall schedule. 
So, while it may seem that baseball season is now winding down, Notre Dame's is just beginning, and that ought to make for plenty of exciting days at the ballpark. 

The Obserr•er Notre Dame utlke. located on tht· third lloor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classified adn·rtisinf> from l) a.m. until ·I p.m.. Monday through Friday. Tht' Obser!'er Saint Mar~·, olfin·. located on the third lloor of llaggar College Center, acu:pt' dassifi<·ds from ll:.~O p.m. until -~ p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. lkadline for next-day dassitkds is -~ p.m. All classilkds must he prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charf\<' is l 0 cn11s p<·r five charac­
Classifieds 
ters cr da · 
NOTICES 
Are yoo In need of FINANCIAL AID? Leaderll11p Trammg! Challenge' Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman In the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 alter 5:30 
TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE 
IIRIOOE IIRIOOE BRIDGE Who aav-there's nothrng to do? Call Town & Coontry Brrdge Center at 255­6613 for more Information. 
PRO-TYPE Specializing in student papers. diaaertations. law papers reeumea 277·5833 8 a.m. to tO p.m. 
Wordproceaerng and typing. 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
DO YOU KNOW SOMEONE WHO's DYING TO BE THIN? Anorexra nervoea and bulimia are aeriooa eeting disorders affecling hundreds of yoong women on the Notre Dame/St. Mary·a campus. Many promralng futures will be disrupted or destroyed by these disorders unless they are treated. But now there Ia HOPE-· Healthy Options lor Problem Eaters, the Memonal Hoepllal Program lor compre­henarve treatment of these disorders. ln­dlvrdual and groop therapy Ia available, with a new 10 week groop beginning 9-18­
84. For more rnlormation, contact Dr. Danrel Rybicki (formerly of NO Psych. Serv.) at Memonal Hoepital 284-7308 Special rates for ND·SMC community. FULLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL Don't let these disorders ruin yoor future or that of one's yoo love... CALL 284­7308. MEMORIAL HOSPITAL for HOPE. 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
ANDREA-WHAT ARE YOU DOING??? 
NEED 20 PEOPLE FOR WOOD MFG. CO.. OPERATORS & ASSEMBLERS. WEEKDAYS 4:00 · 8:30. $ 4.00 P/HR CONTACT WAYNE MILLER. DAYTON CONTINENTAL CORP 52275 US 31 N. 277·0711 
GUITAR LESSONS: learn jazz. blues, rock n roll. and/or folk and coontry styles at a low prrca. CALL ROB: 232-6555. 
PUNK'N'PIZZA..PUNK'N'PIZZA: WHY? a)TO BECOME A MEMBER OF THE PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB b)TO MEET OLD AND NEW MEMBERS c)TO GET YOUR WEEKEND OFF TO A SWINGIN' START. WHEN? FRIDAY NIGHT, &-8 pm. WHERE? KEENAN HALL PARTY ROOM. COST? FREE TO MEMBERS AND THOSE WHO SIGN UP AT THE DOOR CLUB DUES? $ 5 FOR THE YEAR. 
CARAOLL/LYONS PARTY IN THE TROPICS FRIDAY 9/14. 4:30-7:00 IN CARROLL PARTY ROOM ALOHAI 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE. SEND A BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEKI 272­1858 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: 9/5 BLUE AND WHITE PERFUME ATOMilEA SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SENIOR BAA AND PASOUERILLA EAST HIGH SEN· TIMENTAL VALUE IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL 4233 REWARD. THANK YOU. 
LOST LOST Woman's gold watch-­Timex. Pleaae If yoo lind II or have foond II call Kim at4114. 
LOST: 9/5 BLUE AND WHITE PERFUME ATOMIZER SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SENIOR BAA AND PASOUEAILLA EAST. HIGH SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 4233. REWARD. THANK YOU. 
Need Miami tickets will pay$ 35 ea.x3639 
Loet-Friday, Aug.3tsi-·Denlm jacket 
Maybe In car that gave us a ride from 'Grotto to 31? Call284-4452 
Foond: Domer keys in Indy. Am. 351 and car kev-. Call Matt 232-6697 
Foond: Domer keys in Indy. Am. 351 and car keys. Call Matt 232-6697. 
LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES -BROWN FRAMES. LOST SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN KEENAN & LEWIS. IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO 238 LEWIS OR CALL 2179 AND ASK FOR ALINE. 
LOST: Keyring with the words "Hy.Vee" on II. II loond, call283-2202. 
LOST: Gold chain-linked bracelet. II loond. please call Kathleen at 284-5457. 
LOST: ONE GOLD RING. ONE DOLLAR GOLD PIECE IN SETTING.LOST FAI.7. VERY SENTIMENTAL, AND PARENTS WILL KILL! PLEASE CALL 284-4331 IF FOUND. THANKS 
LOST GOLD ADD-A-BEAD NECKLACE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 284­
5062 
LOST: A Great Football Tradition. loond, please return to the Knute Rockne Memorial Stadium. 
LOST: ONE WHITE DRESSER WITH 5 DRAWERS. LAST SEEN BEHIND FAA­LEY AFTER CAVANAUGH/FARLEY HALL STORAGE. WHO TOOK IT? PLEASE RETURN. CALL CATHY 2662. 
FOR RENT 
LUXURY 2 BEDROOM APT TO SHARE: TENNIS, SAUNA, EXERCISE ROOM, INC. FIREPLACE. LAKEVIEW. DISH· WASHER. HEAT, & MORE! 256-6676 
Female interested in living off campus? Space available at Campus View. Call 272-0734. 
Housing available lor grad. stud. Fully fur­nished house. 100/mo. 288-2464 evenings 
FOR SALE 
LOFT LOFT LOFT LOFT LOFT CALL STEVE 2658. 
FOR SALE 1977 VW RABBIT 4 DOOR HATCHBACK 5 SPEED GOOD CONDI­TIONCALL2728714 END 
REFRIGERATOR FOR SALE, IN GOOD CONDITION. CALL CARRIE, 3352. 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI GAME!!I! I! CALL MARl PAT AT 277-2581 OR239-7471. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WANT TO MAKE MONEY? Then sell us your Colorado tickets! We are desperate and will pay well! I Help us! PLEASEIII Call 283-2083/2084 Ask lor Bob, Larry, Sid, or Oscar It's something we've all got to do. 
NEED 5 PENNSTATE TIX CALL DAN 4057 
NEEDED 3 GA AIR FORCE. CALL JAMIE 284-5476 
I HAVE COLORADO STUD. TIX. WANT TO TRADE FOR MIAMI STUD. TIX OR GAS WILL ALSO TRADE FOR N.D.­MISSOURI TIX CALL 277-7570!1!1! 
$$$$BIG BUXXX $$$$FOR TWO AIR FORCE GA TIX CALL JOHN 283-1306 
NEED 2 PENN-STATE GA'S TO BUY-­OR WILL TRADE FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL JANET AT 4376 
Need two Colorado tix; call Dave 1700 or Bobt646 
HELP! I desperately need 2 Colorado GA tlx. Please call Kelly-4308. 
need 2 Colorado GA's Moura x2885 
need 2 Colorado GA's Megan 284-5451 
lor sale; ONE SNIOA STUDENT PACK· AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL KIM AT 291-2957 
Need two Miami GA's. Call Dan: 239­7666 Days: 233-6254 Nights. 
I NEED MICH ST GAs.272-6306 
Need COLORADO tix. Call Jay at 1655. 
NEED 2 COLORADO GA'S $ $ $ CALL AOBAT2516 
NEED 4 COLORADO TIX!! HELP CALL BAIANAT1688 
Need 1 or 2 GA's lor Colorado Theresa 2858 
NEEDED ... 2 tickets lor Penn State game. Call Shannon -284-4164 
Need 3 Colorado GA's Paul3597 
I need two (2) GA's lor both Miami and Penn State Please call 2442 or 1 585 
MY RICH GRANDMA NEEDS 5 MIS­SOURI & 2 COLORADO GA'S BEFORE SHE DIES. CALL HANK AT 1573 
NEED TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL JOHN 1023 
SOUTH CAROLINA SOUTH CAROLINA SOUTH CAROLINA SOUTH CAROLINA My brotherlallylng In from the 11-t el8te of MIIIIMI and I need 1 or 2 Oenenll AdmiHion or Stu­dent tlcketa lor the South CaroiiiMI 1111me. II you can eccomodate piM" conl8ct Milt! at4013. 
Desperately need 1 So. Carolina Stu. ticket please call SMC 5264 
HELP Ill NEED 2 STUD. TIX OR GA FOR COLORADO. WILL TRADE FOR PENN. ST. STUD. OR FOR S.C. STUD. KEVIN 277-3954. 
I NEED MIAMI GA'S CALL BRIAN 3677. 
Need 2 GA's and 1 student tix lor Miami. Will pay BIG BUCKS I Michelle 4081 
Will trade 2 Penn State and 2 Air Force GA'S lor 2 MIAMI GA'S call Roger at 3207 
NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET. CALL FELICIA AT 284-4146. 
NEED 3 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKETS TO THE COLORADO GAME. FOR VISITING ALUMS. CALL OSCAR AT 277-3055 IF YOU HAVE ANY TICKETS TO SELL. 
2 MICH ST Tlx lor sale-ROB 1739 

lm in desperate need of any Miami GA tickets Paul2318 
PLEASE HELP! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR 
COLORADO.CALLMAUAEENAT2~ 
WANTED 

SOPHMOAES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $ 16,559-$ 50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call 805·687-6000 Exl. A-9834. 
NEEDED: TWO G.A. TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME: CALL 283-3684 
WANTED; FULL-TIME BABVSITIEA AT MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND OCC. 4 YR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORTA­TION TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA. SALARIED. REFERENCES. AFTER 6PM CALL; 289-9193. I I PEASO// A· 99// 3.8// 0 II 0913 URBAN PLUNGE PHOTOS NEEDED -IF YOU TOOK PHOTOS ON YOUR PLUNGE, THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE COPIES OF THEMI LEAVE YOUR PICTURES WITH THE FRONT DESK -THEY WILL BE RETURNED! 
GERMAN TYPIST TO TRANSPOSE GERMAN INDEX FROM CARDS TO COMPUTER. 3 MONTHS STEADY WORK. PHONE 288-9277. 
STUDENT WORKERS NEEDED Male or Female lor Saint Mary's Dining Hall. Work includes some weekend hours. Please apply in person toSMC Dining Hall Office 
TWO·BEDAOOM APARTMENT WANTED. preferably in River Park. Clean, non-smoking adull students. Call 288-0358 alter 3:00 p.m. or (219) 362­2986. 
NEED GLIB ARTICULATE OUTGOING PERSONALITIES TO SPEAK AT VARIOUS CHILD RELATED FUNC­TIONS. MUST LOVE TO WORK WITH CHILDREN AND WEAR HEAVY COSTUME. $ 4.50/HA. CONTACT DAN ELLIS OR JERRY GRANT AT THE WINDY CITY REST AU RANT 272-4935. 
PERSONALS 
And she said we must get together, But I knew it'd never be arranged. 

-Herry Chapin 
MY LONG LOST BROTHER HAS BEEN FOUND. HE WALKED ALL THE WAY BACK FROM VIETNAM, AND HIS ON'-Y WISH IS TO SEE A NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL GAME. If you have a student ticket or a G.A. lor the Miami game please call Sarah at 1333. Think of it as an act of patriotism, selling your ticket to a vet. 
CAVANAUGH HALL p.....,l8: Irish football highlights (when we used to win) This week's feature is the year 1973. A natrona! championship, a Sugar Bowi victory and an undefeated year. Watch all of the action this Friday night at 7:30 inthe basement Bring a friend because It's FREEl 
!!II I NEED MIAMI TICKETS 11!1!11 ANNE 2822 ................. Marc Ramirez--Madder Than Mad In '84 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
why do we kill people who kill people to show that killing people is wrong? 
AKRON. AKRON. AKRON, Oh. 
is where, is where I wanna go. 
Will yoo, will yoo take me there? 
any weekend, I don't care. 
II yoo can, well just call me, 
my name's John, 2-4-8-3. 
I would like to help pay lor your trip to Akron or Cleveland anytime this semes­ter. Call John at2483. 
HatandTie 
is coming.. 
Kathleen-don't forget: Purple Rain on Sat­urday! 
Greg Kosse is a mango! 
A NIGHT AT THE CLUB Saturday, Sept. 15, 1984 from 10-2. Come dance to the latest in dance music. Party to be in the LeFortune Ballroom. 
VIVA EL DIA DE INDEPENDENCIA DE 
MEXICO Y AMERICA CENTRAL 1034 
EDDY ST. 5 p.m. 
S.O.L.A./ GROUND ZERO JOINT 
MEETING, 1034 EDDY ST. 5 pm 
TONIGHT 
STUDENT WORKERS NEEDED Male or female for Saint Mary's Dining Hall. Work includes some weekend hours. Please apply in person to SMC Dining Hall Office 
ATIENTION: Ray and Pete want all girts to know that room 36 Pangborn is the party center of the Universe. 
Sombrero y Corval8... Be there. 
Can a Ram Jam a Man in a Can with Jam? 
ATIENTION SENIORS 
Available from 9/14 to 9/21 are applica­
tions for SENIOR FORMAL COMMIT· ·TEES. Aplications may be picked up at either LaFortune or Haggar. They are due by 2:00 9/21. 
So. Cal. Club Volleyball/Picnic 4:00 Fri. Call Carrie at 26651or Info. 
Szan 
Have a sale trip home-see you Sun. nile­
watch your activities in E. Lansing, I have · friends everywhere! -me 
JUGGLER I 
JUGGLER I 
JUGGLER! 
Bring submissions to 309 O'Shag by Sept 
21 
ATTENTION FOWLPHOBIACSI HAVE YOU BEEN BOTHERED BY PESKY CHICKENS AND OTHER VA-RIOUS BARNYARD ANIMALS? CALL CHICK­ENBUSTERS 283-1225 AND ASK FOR TOM WE DON'T THINK IT IS FUNNYIII 
ND/SMC Th-Studentelll 
MIIJora and non-maJora, th..-. will be a meatlng TONIGHT at 4 p.m. In the G...., Room at Morallu-SMC. Be lh..-.. 
I glued a soldier to my car. 
..' ..'.... . . . . . .. . . . . ... . . . ...' . . . . . . . . . . ... 
BASH 2-HALF WAY TO ST.PATTYS 
DAY PARTY. SAT AT N.D.APTS 
...................... 
THERE IS A MESSAGE THAT WE ALL 
MUST EXTEND; IT CONCERNS ALL 
THE FEMALES THAT LIVE IN SOUTH 
BEND. THERE IS ON THE LOOSE. A 
STRAPPING YOUNG STUD; AND HE 
TAKES TO THE GIRLS LIKE PIGS TAKE 
TOMUD.SOBEWAAEALL YOU GIRLS, 
AND WOMEN ALIKE; HE'S A LEGEND 
IN HIS TIME. AND THE CHICKS CALL 
HIM SPIKE!! I 
Is anybody gomg to Texas lor mrd­semester break? I need a ride CALL SAM 4665 
DEATH TO PSYCHO CHICKEN KATIE FRANCIS KATIE FRANCIS KATIE FRANCIS HAVE A GREAT 19TH B-DAY. GET READY FOR A WILD AND "STIFF" NIGHT ON THE BOOZE CRUISE. DOMEAS PREPARE TO GET HER SMASHED! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LOVE CHRIS & CAROLYN 
KATIE WISH I COULD BE THERE TO CELEBRATE YOUR BIRTHDAY. HAVE A GREAT ONE! MISS YOU. LOVE BILL 
DR. MARY AND NURSE BITSY, IS QUARTER BEERS AT BAIDGETS AEALL Y THAT TOUCHY A SUBJECT? 
Happy 21 at to Joe Glorry BMOC (Big Man at Old College). Women-get In ICMJch with Joe (1442) and give him a birthday "whatever" before he develope a eenee of morality. 
In 1 959, she watched while he killed a lot of people. The BADLANDS 
TheiiADLANOSare MSU bound. 
ARE YOU FUNNY? 
The Ob881Ver needs yoo! 
The Features Department Ia looi<ing lor 
humor columleta and cartoonle18. II 
yoo are interested. call Mary Healy at 239­
5303 
You made your choice, 
Now It's up to me to bow out gmceful/y. 
But you hold the key ... 
Wllenever yoo caJI me, I'll be them 
Wllenever yoo want me, I'll be there 
Wllenever you need me. I'll be there 
I'll be around. 
Tom Are yoo up for a roll in the hay? -C 
Peggy end Mllrya 
Hold down the homelronl this weekend! 
I'll be doing my best "over-lakes" True, I 
may not have a van. but then egeln. a 
hotel room is an adequate substitute. 
-Sz 
••••••••••••••• ••go hawaiian danctt'••••••••• ••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••friday night­•••9pm~ 1am••••• refreshments•••• ••••••••••••••• ••••••••••on the fietdhouM ~ent quac:t-•••••••••••
....... 
CAAAOLL/LYONS PARTY IN THE TROPICS FRIDAY 9/14, 4:30-7:00 IN THE CARROLL PARTY AOOMALOHAI 
Attention Obnrver Copy Edltore and AHI18nt Nawa Edltore-A note to inform yoo all that there will be a News depart· menl meeting Sunday night at 7:30 in the Observer office. All CEs and ANEs are re­quired to attend. Please let us know per­sonally if yoo can't make it. 
Vladimer Horowitz and Kart Lazlo, These Men They Call: Masters of Microcephalic Plaque Forming Units Warriors of War· thog Control Tamers ol Albino Eunuchs Stimulators of Bald-headed Stepchildren Servants of Crustacean Gods We Salute Yoo PO and PD. 
Need loor PENN STATE tickets. Please call Mary at 1333 . 
!I! So Keech, yoo·re 21 huh? So "'h3fl !!I 
Suzie Kang turns 20 this Saturday. Since her GOOD friends are leavrng town, we invite her REAL lnends to join her In PW lor a celebration. HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUZIE!! --a KANGAROO PRODUCTION-· 
MRK Welcome home baby. Know that I am always yoors-only!!l SURE 00!!!1 MJH 


Showcase 
Friday, September 14, 1984 -page 14 
Letters to a lonely god 
The duty of tolerance 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 

sometimes I get embarrassed by 
the behavior ofreligious people.I had an older brother who never went to church. Though he believed in God, I'm not sure he was ever baptized. He was more gracious as a human being than some ofthe bigots who come to Mass. Maybe the real problem is that I'm a luke-warm Christian. Maybe if I were a stronger Catholic, I would serve Christ more pas­sionately, wrestling His enemies to the ground. I read the hate mail, or hear the stories, and get sick to my stomach. Ifscreaming ugly words in the street is what the Lord asks of His followers, than I would want to return the cross ofdiscipleship, 
It ashamed ofwhat it means to be a 
.. 
Christian. IfI have to believe in all the private visions in which it is 
~ 
~ 
~ 
claimed God's Mother threatens the end ofthe world if Catholics don't 
follow her instructions, I feel it's 
been a waste oftime bothering with 
a ministry, since Our Lady is 
working out the conditions ofthe 
judgement with some children in a 
meadow. I would hate to be one of 
the mindless simpletons on Chris­
tian television so happy to be saved 
that they can speak of nothing else, 
assured that all the interesting 
people from Mother Theresa to 
jerry Lee Lewis are doomed in 
eternity. I wouldn't be able to an­
swer the logic ofparents belonging 
to a sect offaith healers whose baby 
died recently ofuntreated menin­
gitis. The child's mother said: "I 
didn't let my baby die. I gave him 
back to God." I don't want to be on 
the same team with fundamentalists 
ofthis stripe, even to argue with 
them. 
I'm sorry for sounding intolerant. I'm not spiritual enough to know what all the guidelines should be, or to offer myself as a referree calling the fouls in the wrestling match between jacob and the angel. As one wearing the Roman collar in 
public, I'm entitled to my self 
respect. When religion looks like 
part ofthe madness oflife, I can ask, 
"Do I really want to be here?" 
Christ said some pretty fierce 
things, for which He became 
answerable. I can't imagine that His 
face got twisted with fear, hatred, 
and anger. Do polemicists half mad 
with cold fury really feel em­
powered to speak in His name? 
What do the rest ofus do when 
religion itself becomes as crippling 
as poverty working over the bodies 
ofslum children, or drugs sickening 
the brains ofteenagers? 
The religious establishment has its visible symbols, and Christ crucified is preached with a thousand variations. Though there is hype and ballyhoo no one has seen the Holy Spirit in the form ofa dove descending on the pope and preacher. God seems so silent, skeptics ask if He has died. I have the grace to believe that His love is active and busy, but the proofs are personal, though some of them come out ofa shared experience in hearing the Gospel and receiving the sacraments in a community that believes He is present when two or three are gathered in His name. Other good people are honest agnostics, with the opinion that my experience is subjective. They are skeptical whether the Lord speaks now, or if He has ever spoken. I must be tolerant in working out my differences with them. America is a nation where tolerance is a duty we owe one another. 
My quarrels with the world will not go away, just because I'm tolerant. A Christian should be caring enough to lay down his life for his friend, though all the soldiers dying in war don't wear Christian dogtags. Tolerance doesn't require me tO remain neutral when the government is responsible for hor­rors. I wish for the common sense to see people ofgood will as allies on the Lord's side, working with His grace, even when they don't agree with me. The house :;eems divided against itself when Catholics write off their bishops as Communist dupes because they wrote a pas­toral on nuclear control. 
I'm as passionately concerned with the national problems as anyone; I feel a danger to my sanity when the reverence for life isn't defended. Still, name calling in an 
·election year polarizes us in hatred. The· extremists at both ends become most visible, because they are the loudest. Fanatics ofany kind, trying to rub their opponents' noses in the dirt, are frightening; nobody wants to be dictated by a fanatic. A fanatic has been defined by Chur­chill as someone who won't change the subject, and can't change his mind; as for example, a person who thinks there is only one issue to be decided at an election. The country was agitated into the Civil War, at least partly, by fanatics, north and south, who thought God was on their sides. Leaving God out of their politiCs, they might have found a middle ground on which lives could be saved. With God on your side, you don't need a middle ground, and so the world continues getting uglier. 
_Wirnpishness doesn't count as a Christian virtue. People become saints for dying for what they believe in. I would like to have such courage, if I needed it. Salvation could depend on being faithful to my conscience, the divine spark of integrity that the Lord has breathed His grace on. I can't be sure that another person's integrity burns with the same kind ofholy fire. Star differs from star in glory; con­sciences may be as variable as those twinkling stars, as far as I can judge them. Everyone doesn't have the advantage ofseeing truth as a Cath­olic. Even though I am positive I know what God thinks, I should have the humility to see myself as others see me, especially if they're Christians who saw a different reflection of truth in the same dark mirror. 


Windy City jazz band to perfornt 
Dangers of crossing the 'friendly' border  
by Moe Brick features staffwriter  
.  The Canadian provinces share the longest unguarded border in the world with the United States. Physically, Canada is the U.S.'s closest friend. This fact is not always obvious, however, as the following true account shows. Being a Canadian myself, I have crossed the border many times, visiting friends and family. All you need is a birth certificate and some other form ofi.D. I have never been searched entering Canada, but three times already I have been searched re-entering the United States. The first two times I managed to get through without too much trouble. But if something happens twice always expect it again, and let me tell you I struck out that third time. As for my appearance, let it suffice to say that my hair was a little shaggy, but I was conservatively dressed. I carried onto the same train a large back pack and two speakers, still in the box, just waiting for a non­alcoholic event at Notre Dame. I knew I was in trouble when the customs officer took a great interest in the boxes. These men are trained in psychology and just by looking at me he knew they were mine. He asked me if this was so, and I replied affirmatively in the proper tone. I was pointed in the now familiar direction ofthe customs shack. I stood in line for a while, as I was to find out later a marijuana cigarette had been found on a gentleman before me. It was in the bottom ofone ofhis bags, apparently forgotten after a relaxing weekend in the great white north. I was surprised to learn that they had even searched his five-year-old daughter ­not the most constructive episode for a developing young mind. After some small talk with some ofthe junior agents and a girl in line behind me ("Isn't the weather nice, etc."), they finally asked for my J.D. Of course, I handed them both my Notre Dame J.D. and driver's license-a mistake as I was to learn later. Ifyou're lucky you may run into an NO fan, but chances are you'll meet someone who thinks you are are a rich kid bringing drugs back to your delinquent friends. I was then told to empty my pack. I was about to oblige the gentleman when I was suddenly whisked into a small windowless room by two burly looking men (I'll call them Frick and Frack). Frick's first question was "How much pot are you carrying?" Hold it! I thought, don't I get a chance to deny carrying any at all before I have to tell them how much I deny carrying? I said I was not carrying anything SIR. He then asked me if I had ever tried any drugs, running off a long list of"fun" stuff. I denied any use or knowledge ofany one who used them (another mistake). Meanwhile Frack was ripping into my pack in a disturbing way, asking me why I carried so many sweaters and books (which he leafed thrOugh). He even squeezed tooth paste all over the place. Neither ofthese guys believed a word I said. As was later explained to me, approximately 25 percent of the population has used cocaine and a much larger figure for marijuana, so when I told them I was just a Notre Dame student interested only in the betterment ofmind and body they laughed at me. Probably ifI had admitted to knowing somebody who used drugs, I might have had an easier time. These officers are only interested in what crosses the border. What happens once you're in is ofno concern to them. My denying more than I needed to led to further search and questionings... They finished searching my bags and shifted their attention to my speakers. After shaking them around a bit and trying to look into them they finally offered to bargain with me. 'Til let you off easy if you just tell me what you have on you.'' "Sir," I responded, "I'm not carrying anything that you'd be interested in." "Well, then," he said, "What's in those speakers? Why are they so heavy? If you don't tell me we'll either drill them or get some of the dogs. You wouldn't wam that to happen, now would you?" Drill my speakers, God forbid! This man was getting me mad, and I could feel the anger rising up in me, but looking at these two guys, billy clubs and pistols strapped to their sides, I knew any protestation would be in vain. I decided to tell them I was ignorant as to my rights in this particular situation, but I'd sue them later if I found out they were doing anything unconstitutional. Wdl that got to them. "Cocky Canuck," I'm sure they were thinking. "We'll just have to look elsewhere," Frick said. "Empty your pockets." I obliged. "Take off your shirt. . . now your shoes." These were searched. He found a penny in a shirt pocket I had missed. "Uh huh... " he mumbled. "Okay, now pull offyour drawers," these were searched. "Now, pull down you briefs," I was about to step out ofthem and expect the worst, when Frick motioned Frack to inspect the fly area. "Nothing here," reported Frack. "Damn," muttered Frick, "Get dressed and pack you stuff." Thank God, I thought. This experience can serve as a warning: never smuggle anything, legal or illegal into the states. Customs may search anyone if they have any suspicions; to make a point to young people, or just as a matter ofroutine. Ifyou ~e questioned be truthful-the officer is only interested in stopping what comes into the nation, and has no jurisdiction once one is actually in the country. I have yet to figure out is what happened to the person behind me. She was young and quite prettily dressed. However, as Frick and Frack led er into the room, I could see tears weling up in her eyes. After I got back onto the train we waited a few minutes, but whether she got back on or not, I never found out; I never saw her again.  

by Heather Miller 
features staffwriter 

T
he The Saint Mary's College 1984-85 Performing Arts Series will begin its 28th season tonight at 8 in O'Laughlin Auditorium, featur­ingjames Dapogny's Chicago jazz Band. 
The music which is to be pre­sented has been described as "a first-rate musical experience for connoisseur and casual listener alike." The band recreates the music ofjelly Roll Morton, Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, and other jazz greats, as well as ragtime, New Orleans and Chicago jazz and swing. 
Dapogny first heard and began playing with some ofChicago's jazz pioneers at the age of 15. Ever since, he has been studying and playing jazz. He is now an associate professor at the University of Mic­higan. He has performed with Bob Wilber, Cozz Cole, PeeWee Erwin, and Clarence Cole, as a solo jazz pianist. 
Having played together since 1976, the seven members ofthe Chicagojazz Band are accom­plished ensemble and solo im­provisors. On an individual basis, 
they have played on over a hundred recordings. The band's recordings include "James Dapogny's Chicago jazz Band," "Piano Music ofjelly 
Roll Morton," "Back Home in Illi­
nois," and "Sipple." 
Past performances held in O'Laughlin include Thurber I, with William Windom, The Pavlova Celebration, and The Rhythmic Union, to name a few. The National Shakespeare Company is the next feature, scheduled for November 9. 
Saint Mary's students will be admitted free ofcharge, and the box office offers a special rate for Notre Dame students. 


Showcase Friday, September 14, 1984-page 15 
,.. ,,~--· 'II • I h .....
Purple Rain drenches audience with emotion . ~~~~·· ··~~~ .
~ 

The movie -an emotional peak and plunge 
i Wt?t?~t?llcl! 
heartbeat ofPurple Rain.

by Scott Ebersol • 
Director Albert Magnoli has features staff writer combined the story of the Kid's 
trouble-filled, self-centered life with  
Not since the rock opera "Tommy" or "The Last Waltz"  surrounding her entrance into the First Avenue Club contrasts the  onstage footage which brings light to the Kid's message. Yet Prince's  •MOVIES Tonight and tomorrow the Student Activities Board will present  
has a film combined the dynamic  Kid's light-glared, crowd· roaring  screen presence is more cinematic  "Terms of Endearment." Shirley MacLaine, Debra Winger, and Jack  
energy of rock music and the  approach upon his bike. Apollonia  than actual. Because ofhis small  Nicholson star in this Academy Award winner which will be shown  
cinematic elements of modern film.  provides the visual sensuality the  stature, Prince is shot at odd angles  at 7, 9:30, and 12. Admission is S1.SO.  
Purple Rain · Prince's nocturnal  Kid cries for in his music.  or while sitting on his motorcycle  Old movie buffs will want to be at the Knights of Columbus Hall  
semi-autobiography-offers a pow­ The Kid's musical message is,  .His dominant presence is visible  when the K of C presents the double feature "Oils Well that Ends  
erful and erotic portrayal of"the  throughout the film, misun­ only upon the stage.  Well" with the Three Stooges and "Horse Feathers" with the Marx  
Kid," crying to climb upward in his  derstood. Billy, the club manager,  In the closing concert scene, the  Brothers. Showings will be at 8, 10, and 12 tonight and tomorrow  
tumultuous self-tortured life.  snaps one night, "Nobody digs your  Kid dedicates 'Purple Rain' to his  night and admission is $1.  
The Kid is Prince. By night, he is  music but yourself." The Kid is  father who lies in a hospital after an  The Friday Night Film Series will present the film "Pauline at the  
home only upon the stage. Self·  constantly humiliated by Morris  unsuccessful suicide. The song is an  Beach." In this French film with English subtitles, director Eric Roh­ 
centered. energetic, distraught, the  Day, the jealous leader ofa rival  apology· to his parents, to Apol·  mer presents a witty tribute to summer romance in this story of a  
Kid escapes his anger-filled home  group, lbe Time. Day's surprising  Ionia, to the girls in the band who  teenager vacationing at a seaside resort with her sophisticated older  
Ilk by releasing his trapped energy,  comic skill, combined with his 40's  wrote the song, to himself.  cousin from Paris. The movie will begin tonight at 7:30 in the Annen­ 
pounding out chord after chord of  attire, whimpering voice, and cack·  "I never meant to cause you any  burg auditorium and admission will be $2.SO.  
music before the screaming crowd.  ling laugh, provide the frivolous  sorrow · I never meant to cause you  •MUSIC  
Yet, the lights die when he leaves  moments in the film.  any pain-I only wanted to hear you  James Dapogny and his Chicago Jazz Band will provide a rousing  
the stage. Secluded in silence in his  Finally, one night the Kid dis·  laughing..."  beginning for the 1984-8S Performing Arts Series at Saint Mary's  
dressing room, the Kid is alone.  covers his father playing one ofhis  With "I Would Die 4 You" ec-.  tonight. The show begins at 8 in O'Laughlin Auditorium.  
Finally, climbing upon his purple  old songs on the piano, and con­ hoing in the background, Magnoli  On Sunday, Notre Dame's department of music will present an All  
motorcycle · the dominant symbol  fronts him, asking ifhe ever wrote  offers a powerful visual finish. From  Brahms Recital at 4 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. The recital  
of the Kid's powerful isolation and  the songs down. The father glares,  the Kid's father lying helpless in a  will feature accomplished musicians Marjorie Hayward Madey, Mil­ 
cry to escape ­he leaves the fog·  "I don't have to-that's the differ­ hospital bed, the camera fades to a  ton Hastings Hallman, and Patrick Maloney. Admission is free.  
entrenched club. returning home to  ence between you and me." And as  close-up of the Kid sitting, once  Ifyou missed Wayne Newton's performance at the A.C.C. on Wed­ 
his parents, violently fighting once  the film moves on, it becomes ap­ more, solemn in his dressing room.  nesday, you're in luck. Newton. will be performing this weekend at  
again.  parent that the Kid may never dis·  Finally, alone, isolated on stage,  the Holiday Star Theatre in Merrillville, Ind. Tickets are 517.9S and  
His father. portrayed by Clarence  cover that ditferencc.  Prince slowly brings the emotion to  performances will be tonight at 8, tomorrow night at 7 and I0:30,  
Williams Ill, is a frustrated musician  But the Kid's message is woven  an incredible climax. The concert  and Sunday at 7:30. For more information call 769-6600.  
pronl' to tits ofexplosive rage. lbe  into the film with the live concert  audience, Billy, the band· are all  •DANCE  
Kid's mother is unsatisfied with her  pieces. Frustrated, misunderstood,  electrified. Even Morris cannot  It's time to hula! 'Ibere will be a "Go Hawaiian""dance tonight on  
Ilk The Kid's pursuit ofsuccess  and in rage, the Kid comes alive on  escape it. By now, we are caught in  the Field House Mall from 9· t. A D.J. will provide music and refresh­ 
while fighting his parents'  stage. His erotic rendition of  the film's overwhelming uplift.  ments will be available.  
shortcomings provides Purple Rain  "Darlin' Nickle''· shot surrounded  Yet when it is all over, after the  •ART·  
with true personal conflict · a con·  by dark fog, luminous lights, and  final raging chord of"Baby, I'm a  The exhibition "Andre Kertesz: Form and Feeling," which began  
flict, however, which the film never  dripping in sweat· mocks his  Star," we feel left out. Magnoli and  on Aug. 26, will continue at the Snite Museum through Oct. 20.  
resolves.  precarious relationship with Apol­ Prince have brought us to an emo­ 'Ibere are 88 photographs in this retrospective collection spanning  
Adding to this conflict is the Kid's  lonia. The concert pieces are no  tional peak, only to drop us there.  1914-1972. The display is on loan from the Hallmark Photographic  
attraction to sensuous Appollonia  mere string ofinconsistent, unr­ You arc left with a feeling ofwan·  Collection and is touring the nation. Hours at the Museum are 10  
(Patricia Kotcro) · shadowed, inno·  elated musical videos. '!bey provide  ting more. And yes, the film could  a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday, 1 to 4 p.m. Saturdays and  
cent. mysterious. 'Ibe dark aura  richness, meaning, and the  have offered much more.  Sundays, and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8.  

The album -a unique representation of the adult, erotic and experienced 
by Don Seymour features staff writer  carries the rest of the song. "I Would Die 4 U," another single possibility, stands out. "Baby I'm a Star" expresses the  "Purple Rain," the final cut, was written for Prince's father in the film. Though rather repetitive at times, the number effectively il- Iustrates the regret that often exists over feelings unexpressed. The ending is particularly moving. As a less than avid fan of Prince, I  
cockiness and enthusiasm of young,  knew not what to expect, but  
The album Purple Rain, and the "Take Me with U," a duet with film it comes from, have Apollonia, is an affable, melodious  undiscovered performers.Expect to hear this one in the clubs for its  Purple Rain is a very respectable collection of truly original pop  
<::llapultl·d Prince far past the star­ballad. Look for this one to be the  winning thump.  music.  
dom generated by his previous LP next single. Its ideas are standard  
I CJCJCJ. In this age ofsafe pop music love song fare hut its lyrics freshly  
likl· Footloose. Prince has defied the express the the exuberance of  
odds by taking his otfheat, unique romance. 111e only criticism is the  
dance musk to the top of the main· atonal harmony in the last few bars.  
stream charts. "lbe Beautiful Ones" makes a  
Ills appeal is confusing. Unlike good point about beauty and love,  
Michael Jackson, he docs not em· hut the screamed and talked lyrics  
body any qualities ofchildlikl· in· tend to he a little hard to swallow.  
noccncc or spiritual purity. He "Computer Blue" perfectly il­ 
represents cverythin~o~ that Jackson lustrates Prince's music: the bared­ 
is not ­adult, erotic, experienced. down hut ever-present guitar and  
His musk combines a prominent the otfheat synthesizers. Strangely  
dann· heat with bluesy, abrasive enough, the second halfof the lead  
clcctri<: guitar and synthesizers sounds like an Alan Parsons riff:  
ranging from the overblown spec­crisp, distinct notes ov~r a steady  
tacles of"1999 "and "Let's Go bass. lbe only problem here is that  
Crazy" to the bizarre B·S2 style of only halfof the printed lyrics are  
"Dclcrious" and "Computer Blue." sung in the song.  
In our age of conservatism and "Darling Nikki" is a throwback to  
commcrdality, how did this ec· Prince's earlier days and albums  
cl·ntric music cone to outsell the such asDirty Mind and  
rest? That's for the album to say. Controversy, which contained  
The collection opens with "Let's sexually explicit songs about such  
<io Crazy." a dance number that taboos as incest and masturbation.  
will have l'Vcn the unfaithful tap· 'lbe screaming here fits in with the  
ping along. 'lbe song begins with an outrageousness, bringing back  
imitation of a revival preacher visions of the film. The song was  
espousing his philesophy that life is written to infuriate his onscreen  
hard and timchound, so why not love, and it obviously succeeds.  
enjoy yourself when you can. Side two opens with the familiar  
1-Iowt·vcr, the song escapes from "When Doves Cry," a song that  
heinj.!; anotht·r "live fast, die young, truly illustrates the turmoil of his  
and ll'avc a heautifult·orpsc" tune parents' battles and his tendency to  
through references to an after· make the same mistakes in his own  
world, a "world of never ending relationships. 'lbe Hendrix-style  
hapiness." 'Ibese and other passages lead that opens the song recurs  
SUAAt'St a hint ofspirituality not throughout the album hut betrays  
usually seen in his music. the entrancing synth hook that  


The Observer Friday, September 14, 1984 -page 16 
Win over UIC Wednesday 
of them. I do not feel that any team

Young 
practices harder than us. Maybe longer, but not harder. 

ND tennis team travels to Illinois 
continuedfrom page 20 
"I can push them this hard be­the tallest of the Belles at 5-9, and is cause they are all playing for them­By MICHAEL). CHMIEL season mark up to 1-1. tion by knocking off an Alva-Cmdy expected to contribute heavily from selves now. They want to prove to Sports Writer Junior Izzy O'Brien boosted her Mantia team, 6-0, 6-0. her middle blocker postion before people that they can play. And they 
record to 2-0 with a 6-3, 6-1 win "Our singles play has been fairly the end of the year. will." Today the Notre Dame women's over Kali Nikitis. SophomoreJoAnne good," says Irish head coach Sharon Rated one of the outstanding Goralski backs his statements by 
tennis team will be travelling to Biafore and senior Cathy Schnell Petro, who seemed pleased with the freshmen is Kara Tekulve who, as a pointing out the fact that many Champaign, Ill., where it will face a each added to their wins of last outing. "Right now we need some "good all-around player," should see NCAA schools, Notre Dame not strong challenge from a tough Uni­weekend also. Biafore coasted over work in doubles, though," com­
a lot ofaction despite her size. withstanding, have dropped the 
versity ofIllinois squad. This follows Susan Lebold, 6-0, 6-1, and Schnell mented Petro in reference to two Having played club volleyball last Belles from their schedule since a 
a successful outing against the Uni­won, 6-2,6-3, over Maria Alva. losses in six matches so far this year, sophomore Jane Reichert con­loss to a small NAIA school like Saint 
versity of Illinois-Chicago on Wed­Freshman Michelle Dasso, in her season in doubles. tributes experience as well as en­Mary's "does not look good on their 
nesday. first singles action as a member of Today Notre Dame will be hoping thusiasm to the team, and her record." On Wednesday, the Irish, with a the Irish squad, notched her first win to regain the services of junior star constant "100-percent effort" does According to Boutton, who was 
strong showing by their singles ofthe season in cruising to a 6-0, 6-0 Susie Panther. Out ofaction for over nothing but aid team morale. nominated all-District last season, 
players, whitewashed the Flames in victory over Wendy Czarnecki. a week, Panther's state will be Freshmen Beth Wozniac and "We have always had the skill, but 
taking eight out of nine matches In doubles action, Notre Dame evaluated before the match by Moira Cronan are presently nursing now we have something really im­from them. was similiarly successful, as it took Petro. injuries, but both are expected to be portant--the psychological edge." The six Irish singles players were two of three from UIC. "They (Illinois) are probably the 
valuable contributors before the Boutton's attitude reflects that of 
winners of 12 straight sets and six A first team of senior co-captain toughest team that we'll face this year is out. the team, and if the Belles can play 
straight matches to begin the day. Laura Lee and Dazzo was overcome fall," says Petro. "Last year we beat Ofhis team, Goralski proudly says, with the same intensity that they Leading the way was junior Mary in the primary round, 6-3, 6-3. Col­them on our home court ( S-4 ), but "This year th"ere is a really positive boast mentally, the reason for their 
Colligan, who evened her record at ligan and O'Brien, nevertheless, this year it's going to be tough down attitude. They are a good bunch of uncontainable excitement will soon 
1-1 in downing UIC's Gigi Otto, 6-2, were able to bring Notre Dame back there." Iaclit>s and I do not want to lose any be evident to all. 
6-2. Senior c_o-captain Lisa Lafratta with a 6-0, 6-2 trouncing ofa Nikitis­How tough is something which 
likewise did well, beating Kim Czarnecki combination. Schnell and the Irish women will find out for 
Kerbis. 6-4, 6-2. to also bring her Lafratta wound up the mid-week ac-themselves today. 
Auburn faces most .. important game of year 
Associated Press "They've had a game to get the but­
Saturday's sports action
•.. 
" It's only the second game of the terflies and some of the bugaboos season for the Auburn Tigers, but that come about the first game out of
a 
already the most important one of their system, plus conditioning, so I 
football volleyball
the year for them. don't care for that." "We know this game is our season Along with their national champi­
at Michigan State at Illinois State 
as far as the national championship is onship aspirations, the Tigers will be 
12p.m.

concerned," said Auburn defensive motivated in other ways. The Lon­
SMC tennis 

end John Dailey as the 11th-ranked ghorns won last season's meeting, 
Tigers prepared for tomorrow's 20-7, holding Auburn star Bo Jack-. 
baseballat Anderson College 

game with fourth-ranked Texas. son to merely 35 rushing yards. In 
vs. Spring Arbor 

The Tigers had come into the this year's opener against Miami, 
field hockey 

season ranked No. 1 in The Associ­Jackson gained 96 yards. 
CollegeAND 

ated Press poll, but dropped 10 
at Sauk Valley 
In other games involving the na­
1 p.m. 

places after a 20-18 loss to Miami in tion's ranked teams, it's Minnesota at 
College tournament vs. Northern
the Kickoff Classic. 
Jake Kline Field 
No. I Nebraska; No. 16 Washington"Hwe go 0-2, we're out ofit," said 

Kentucky at 
at No. 3 Michigan; No. 12 Penn StateAuburn center Yann Cowart. "It 

at No. 5 Iowa; co-No. 5 Miami atwould be extremely difficult to win 

Indianapolis
Purdue; Long Beach State at No. 7 
SMC volleybal_l 

a national championship with two UCLA; Tulsa at No. 8 Brighamlosses with all the good teams out 
women's tennis 
Young; Washington State at No. 9 
at Elmhurst College 

there." 
Ohio State; Bowling Green at No. 13 
at Illinois 

Texas Coach Fred Akers is wary of 
tournament
Oklahoma State; No. 14 SouthernAuburn, and for more than one rea­Methodist at Louisville; No. 15 Okla-

son. 
homa at No. 17 Pitt; No. 18 Florida '-----------------------------------------' 
"I don't like to play someone 
State at Kansas; and No. 19 Alabama

who's had a game before, especially 
at Georgia Tech. 

a top football team," he said. 

taurant 
Best inAged Stea 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 a.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00p.m. 
Closed 

WHEN YOU NEED A LIFT Remember Reliable 
YELLOW 
CAB COMPANY 
• Lowest Rates: 4 ride for price of 1 between ND/ St. Mary's and downtown/ shopping centers 
• 24-hour radio-dispatched service 
• 
Limousines available 

• 
Serving ND/St. Mary's students since 1928 


233-9333 
HERTZ 
CAR & TRUCK RENTAL 
• 
Cars, trucks and vans 

• 
Rent by day, week or longer 

• 
Car rentals local or one-way 

• 
Open 7 days a week 

• 
Most convenient location for checking in and out 


232-5871 

Convenient location near Notre Dame campus 
710 Norttt Niles Avenue, South Bend 
attention: 
Row Accepting Applications for Senior l'ormal Oommlt,ees 
May be picked up Friday, Sept. 14 through Thursday, Sept. 21 at Lafortune or St. Mary's Student Activities
·" 

Applications due 2 p.m. Friday, Sept. 21 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join their company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay duringyourjunior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical science, find out more today. And letyourcareer pay off while stilt in college. For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: CALL TOlL FREE 1 • 800 • 382 -9782 Navy Representative will be on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement Office 

The Observer Friday, September 14, 1984 -page 1 7 
Notre Dame­Saint Mary's sports weekend 
TODAY 
cross country vs. Ohio State, Northwestern Western Michigan Northwestern, Western Michigan, Missouri 
4p.m. 
Burke Memorial Golf Course , 
soccer at Michigan State 
field hockey at Sauk Valley College tournament 
SMC volleyball at Elmhurst College tournament 
SUNDAY 
baseball vs. Bradley 
1 p.m. 
Jake Kline Field 
field hockey at Sauk Valley College tournament 
soccer at Northwestern 
SMC tennis at Butler 
For Saturday's sports action, see page 16. 
Travel to Illinois State 

Volleyball team evens season mark 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing start this season, the Notre Dame volleyball team has rebounded well. Wednes­day night the Irish defeated North Star Conference foe Valparaiso for their second straight win. 
The 15·2, 15·6, 15·12 win pushed the team's record back to.500 at 3· 3, and helped the Irish get off to a strong start in conference play. 
Head coach Art Lambert was happy to have the win, but was not very impressed with the way his tt:am played. 
"We played fairlv well," said Lam­
19 Midwest schools 

bert. "But we didn't play as well as l think we can play. No one on our team played exceptionally well. It really wasn't much ofa match." 
Although it wasn't pretty, the vic­tory was a welcome one, as Lambert and the Irish did not know what kind ofchallenge Valparaiso would prove to be. 
"I had no idea of what to expect from Valparaiso since I hadn't been around the league before," said Lam­bert. 
As it turned out, the Crusaders did not provide much of a challenge at all. The three-game sweep was an easy one for the Irish, as they started out strong and coasted from there. 
But the Irish will be able to do no coasting this weekend as they hit the road to face a very strong team at Illi­nois State. Lambert does not know much about the Cardinals, but he does know all that he needs to know. 
"All I know is that they drilled Purdue, 3·1. So we're in for a tough one." 
Purdue blasted the Irish in the season opener by sweeping all three games, so Illinois State should prove to be a "tough one," as Lambert predicts. But the Irish are improv­ing, and maybe will he able to close the gap which separates them from the top teams. 

ND Sailing Club hosts regatta 
By MARK DILLON 
Sports Writer 
This weekend the 125 members of the Notre Dame Sailing Club will host their annual Notre Dame Inter­sectional Regatta. The regatta, which will include over I00 yachtmen from 19 schools through­out the Midwest, will be.held on Dia­mond Lake in Cassapolis, Mich. 
Sanctioned by the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association ( M CSA), the regatta will be the first of three chances for Midwest sailing clubs to qualify for the prestigious Sugar Bowl Regatta. The Sugar Bowl, a national evel\1., will be held this year in New Orleans in December. The Notre Dame Intersectional will be the largest MCSA-sponsored event of the season. 

Spread over both tomorrow and Sunday, the regatta consists of a se­ries of races broken into 'A' and 'B' divisions. Each of the 19 schools at· tending will sail two boats in each division. The winners of each divi· sion will then automatically qualify for the Sugar Bowl Regatta. 
The boats which will be sailed are "Flying Junior" class sailboats. Each has a crew of two, consisting of a skipper and a crew member. Thus, four yachtsmen will represent each sehoul per race. 
Notre Dame's club is looking for­ward to hosting the regatta. Oppos­ing team members will be staying on campus and be transported to Dia· mond Lake by van. 
Tom Fink, commodore of the club, said he was looking forward "not only to the racing, but to the social aspects of the weekend." Members of Notre Dame's sailing club will be presiding at several pic· nics and parties over the weekend. 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club has a rich tradition of success. Former members include the present coach of the Mexican Olympic yachting team, Buzz Reynolds, who this year placed second in the U.S. Olympic trials in the Finn class, and Bruce Murphy, a noted yacht designer. 
And the club is hoping that its rich history and tradition of success will inspire it to numerous qualifying spots this weekend. 


Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
yu!rtu'S, MiNfttf&Parktr 
A Un1versal Press Synd1cate Company 

-The Observer Friday, September 14, 1984-page 18 
Michigan State and Northwestern 
Soccer team hits the road for two 
By DAN MICHELINI 
Sports Writer 
As in most sports, intensity plays a big part in the success of soccer teams. And this is one aspect of the 1984 Notre Dame soccer team that worries Irish coach Dennis Grace. 
"We must develop some consis­tency with our intensity," says Grace when speaking of the key to this weekend's games against Michigan State and Northwestern. "We have to embrace that killer instinct. The better teams will take. advantage of our sub-par lapses; luckily we have been able to avoid that as far as wins and losses thus far." 
The Irish will face their sti11est challenge of 'the year when they travel to MSU today. The team has not faced the Spartans since 1981 when Notre Dame triumphed, 4-1. However, the Michigan State team returns seven starters from a very competitive team ofone year ago. 
"Michigan State lost to Indiana last year, 4-2, and anytime you can score two goals against IU, you've played a whale of a game," explains Grace. 
Opener 
continuedfrom page 20 
1983 season, which included first place finishes in dual meets agatnst Northwestern and Ohio State, and a fourth place finish in both the Na· tiona! Catholic Meet and the Notre pame Invitational. 
The co-captains of the '84 team are seniors Bill Courtney and Jim Tyler, both of whom have earned two monograms. Courtney's best race in '83 was a sixth place finish in the 23-team Indiana Big State Meet with a time of 24: 10 over 8,000 meters. Tyler placed sixth and seventh in last year's dual meets against Northwestern and Ohio State, respectively, while also pos­ting a fifteenth place finish in the Na­tional Catholic Meet. 
Three former monogram winners return to the team this year to add quality depth to the Irish. Sopho­more Mike Collins is expected to be a top finisher for Notre Dame as he comes off a fine freshman year in which he finished sixth in the Ohio State dual meet and eleventh in the Midwestern City Conference Meet. 
Senior Ed Willenbrink, who Piane says is having a good year so far, will strengthen the Irish ifhe can run like he did in the Midwestern City Con­ference Meet last year, where he finished thirteenth. The final return· ing monogram winner is sophomore Craig Maxfield, who posted a strong 
24:51 time for the five-mile course at the Central Collegiate Conference Meet last year. 
Piane looks for juniorsJohn Magill and Tom Warth to help Notre Dame this year. 
"Both of them can produce for us," says the Irish coach, "and we're counting on them to. (Magill) is run­ning as well as anyone so far, while Warth is a developing runner who is beginning to blossom." 
If both can continue to run well, the Notre Dame team will be greatly strengthened. 
Notre Dame may have lost three outstanding runners but it com­pensated for these losses by having a fine recruiting year. Freshman Dan 
HELP WANTED Apply in person at: 6502 Grape Rd. Mlsh. Iacross from U-Park Malll 
"They'll be our toughest opponent to date.l'm positive." 
On Sunday, the Irish will travel to the Chicago area to face Northwes­tern. Grace admits he does not know too much about the Wildcats. ex­cept that they are starting to get serious about their program. Notre Dame is 3-0 against Northwestern, and the Irish shut out the Wildcats, 6-0, the last time the two teams met in 1981. 
Grace points to the chemistry of this year's team as a major strength. 
"I think the ability of the team to work together will carry us to a lot of victories," he says. 
The only glaring weakness is the team's occasional lapses in the quality ofplay. 
"We play very, very good at times. Then we play very, very bad," Grace says, explaining that the Irish cannot afford that inconsistency ifthey plan on being victorious this weekend. 
The major load of the leadership burden seems to be falling on the shoulders ofcaptains Rich Herdegen and Dom Driano. The two seniors head the offense and defense, 
Garrett had such an outstanding high school career in New York that Piane calls him "legitimate" and "as good as a freshman as we've had in a while." 

Tim Cannon 
Freshman Rick Mulvey of Westfield, Wise., is another fresh­man who could help the Irish this year. 
respectively. Chris Telk, a jumor midfielder, also seems to be emerg· ing as a team leader while coming back from a knee injury. 
"Chris isn't even playing. 75 per­cent yet, but as he comes around physically, I think he will assume some of that leadership responsibil­ity," Grace says. 

The Irish coach also has been pleasantly surprised by the play of his freshmen. 
"We start two freshmen, Johnny Fossella up front and Steve Lowney as a back. Johnny's learning things quickly, and Steve is doing a real good job as a back." 
For the moment, though, Grace's only concern is preparing the team to play well this weekend. He says that he feels some of the players are questioning how good the team is. 
"The biggest thing I have to do is convince them that we can beat Mic­higan State," Grace says. 
If Grace can indeed convince his players, then the Irish soccer team may return home Sunday evening with a perfect 6-0 record. 

The schedule will not be easy for Notre Dame this fall, as there are no weak meets planned. Two weeks from today, the Irish continue with the National Catholic Meet, and fol­low that with the Notre Dame Invita­tional and the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet, all three of which will be held at Notre Dame. 
The Irish then travel to the Mid­western City Conference Meet, whose field includes an outstanding, foreign-dominated Oral Roberts team. Capping the year is the NCAA District IV Meet, which determines qualifiers for the NCAA Champion­ships at Penn State. 
Piane doesn't want to dwell on the NCAA's, but feels that ~·potentially some kids could qualify." To combat the tough schedule this year, Piane's strategy is to "take each meet by meet, relish the success for a day, and then move on." 
For those fans attending the meet today, Piane says to look for a nice tight pack ofNotre Dame runners up front. He wants to keep these run­ners up close for as long as possible in order to do well. 
SMC Performing Arts Series O'Laughlin Auditorium Friday, September 14, 1984 8:00p.m. 
TICKET INFORMATION 2M _.626 
UNCLES' Pus 
V2 MILE SOUTH OF UNIV. PARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 
This Saturday 
PITCHERS BEER 
$2.50 
Large ScreenT.V. NO VS. MICHIGAN STATE Hotdogs so~ 
DOORS OPEN 11:30 


THERE'S SOMETHING 

NEW 
COOKIN' ON CAMPUS. 
IflTRODUCINGa 
BAKED POTATO 
OFFER EXPIRES 9/30/84 

FOR A LIMITED TI)';E Or.'l.Y. I
Ir---------------, 
BRING IN THIS AD AND RIC!IV! A l!JI BOZ DRINK WITH

I ITK! PURCHASE or A DELICious BAOD POTATOIIIIIIIIII 
L I ••SAINT MARY'S SNACK BAR AT HAGGAR COLL!C! CENTER ..1I 
Tile best lias a taste allits oWD. 
BUD
liGH1 
BEER 



.... 




Bloom County 

If 'tOll Wtf<e I WAwr 10 (Jf-VOT[ ANfl NOW, fOfl. VU/1&fN& P0/5e 
A/.ONe ON /11 Yllf£ 10 ft.ftC£ ANfl Mf<SON!lLITY, filCH 
A fle,,ff<T ANIJ (INilfR5T!lNPIN!J f!NAt/ST WIU fWSWF:fl. A 
tSI-IlNP, I LOV£ PUPPI£5,.. 5/m QIJf5TION. flfl.5(, Wf 
WHilT WOU·-_7 ANP HOMOS£XiiALS HAVe 'Mf5Tffl../:MOM CWNTY." 
\ HAVE NO PlACE IN 

1HIS CiJIJmft'S

I 
POLKA 
HAU.5. 
/ 

Tank McNamara 

Psychochicken Octavio 
I IHIIIIK 1T 's v li'AL./

lHIS R(LI"riOI\I Ato.ll) 
CrOVE R NMElli 'T 
THAT PEOPL.E:' / 


TII!IT W!lSN7 Vff<Y (;()(XJ, WI!S IT/ 1/11 fli-ITTl£ Nff<VOI/6. I H!lP 8f<OCCIX/ FOR PINNER. ff<A5€ 1AP6... 
Tilkf TWO. 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 
The Far Side Gary Larson 



Berke Breathed 
NeXT IS 

Oil
"MiSTff{ I)TfiH." 

fWP..(I
I 


-
T0 day_____________________
F_r_id_a_y_,s_e_p_t_em_b_e_r_l_4_,1_9_s_4__P._a..ig_e_l_9 


ACROSS  39 Spontaneously  67 Unites  
1 At a distance 5 VIpers 9 Defraud 13 More mature 15 Poisonous Javanese tree 16 Fr. friend 17 Artless 18 Melody 19 Nimble 20 Spontaneously 22 Wearies 23 Presently  41 -Francisco 42 Arbitrary constant 44 Casts off 46 Naps 47 Disorderly crowd 49-fixe 50 Magician's word 52 Branch 54 Demure  68 Scraps of food 69 Tear apart DOWN 1 First-class 2 Fiber plant 3 Approach to a mine 4 Tit-for-tat 5 Vehicle  
24 Chilean city  56 Spontaneously  6 Spontaneous  
26 Complacent  61  Israeli dance  7 Window  
29 Greeting from  62 S-shaped  divisions  
Sandy  molding  8 Comp. pt.  
31  In a snit  63 Century plants  9 Medieval  
34 He keeps to himself  64 City south of Moscow  helmet 10 Spontaneous  
36 Mindful  65 Lease  11 Money in Turin  
38 Fr. painter  66 Ruckus  12 Openers  

14 San­21 WW II agcy. 
22 Inclinations 25 Word with book 
or house 26 Insults 27 Lesson taught 
by a fable 28 Spontaneous 30 Pontoon 
32 Beat around 
the bush 33 Slow-witted 35 Frolicked 37 Poi source 40 Escutcheon 
band in heraldry 
43 Radio 
antennas 45 Nazi Heinrich 48 Obstacle 51 Jungle beast 58 Shaft 


53 Stray 59 Numerical 54 Prove suffix 55 Dashed 60 Applied 57 Favorites 62 Sp. gold 
Thursday's Solution 

Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Cross Country, ND vs. Ohio State/Northwestern, 5 Miles, Burke Golf Course. 

•4 
p.m. -Club Picnic, American Lebanese Club Picnic, Green Field (By Senior Bar), Sponsored by American Lebanese Club, For All Members. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Reactions of Sulfur-free Radicals in Systems of Biochemical Interest," Prof. K.-D Asmus, Hahn-Meitner Institute, Berlin, West Germany, Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•5 
p.m. -Meedng, SOLA/Ground Zero Joint Meeting, 1034 Eddy St., Sponsored by SOLA/Ground Zero, Free. 

•5 
p.m.-Meedng, Mexican-Central American In­dependence Meeting, 1034 Eddy St., Sponsored by Student Organization on Latin America, Free. 

•7 
p.m. -FUm, "Hail The Conquering Hero," O'Shaughnessy Loft, 

•7, 
9:30p.m. & 12-FUm, "Terms of Endearment," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, SI. 

•7:30 
p.m.-FUm, "Pauline At The Beach," Annen­berg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Jazz Band, James Dapgony's ChicagoJazz Band, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Tickets Required. 

•8, 
10 p.m. & 12 -Fllms, "Oils Well That Ends Well" and "Horsefeathers," 3 Stooges & Marx Bros., Knights of Columbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, S1 For Both (Members Free). · 

•9 
p.m.-Dance, "Expose Yourself to New Music," Chatauqua, Sponsored by OffBeat Production, S1. 

•9 
p.m. -1 a.m. -Dance, "Go Hawaiian," Fieldhouse Mall, Sponsored by Campus Entertain­ment Committee, Free. 


Saturday,Sept.15 
•8 
a.m. -3 p.m. -Medical College Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium. 

•12 
p.m. -Football, ND vs. Michigan State, East Lansing. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. & 12 a.m.-FUm, "Terms of Endear­ment," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board, S1. 

•8 
& 10 p.m. & 12 a.m.-Fllms, "Oils Well That Ends Well" and "Horsefeathers," 3 Stooges & Marx Bros., Knights of Columbus Hall, Sponsored by 


Both (Members 
An All Brahms Concert, Annenberg 
•5:00 p.m.-Meedng, Election Task Force, Breen­Philips Puzzle Room, all are welcome, Free. 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/14/84All Rights Reserved 
20~rnu~ §ffi~

•: 
FRIDAY
: 
SATURDAY 
11 30

6 • 9 HAPPY HOUR • ? ND on the BIG SCREEN 
Relax with out food & drinks 
75' 14 oz. drafts 
•

2 or 1 mixed drinks 
burgers • nachos • dogs

• :
75' drafts 
9 · close OPEN TO ALL 9 ·? MSU Pep Rally SCAVENGER HUNT 
Willie Nelson Ticket Giveaway! 

For Scavenger Hunt list, see page 5 
• 

TONIGHT 
and 
Saturday Night 
Terms 
of 

Endearment 
7:00 9:30 12:00· 

Eng. aud. 


-
Notre Dame cross country team opens 1984 season today at Burke 
By NICK SCHRANTZ that "last year was misleading," two high school all-Americans. Fur­Sports Writer saying that this season's opening thermore, Ohi0 State added a new meet will be highly competitive and coach and several good recruits to a 
The Notre Dame cross country a good indicator of the team's team which came back to beat Notre team opens its 1984 season today strength. Dame in the Notre Dame Invita­with a challenging meet against Piane points out that Western tionallast year. Northwestern, Ohio State, 'Missouri Michigan and Missouri have been As a result of the increased com­and Western Michigan. Notre Dame added to a field that originally only petition, Piane feels that the race hosts this five-team event, which is included Northwestern and Ohio will be close and thinks that the Irish scheduled to begin at 4 p.m. on the State. He states that Western Mic­could finish anywhere from first to Burke Memorial Golf Course. higan has a tradition ofgood middle­fifth. 
Last year Notre Dame easily han­distance and distance men, while Another reason for Piane's dled Ohio State in a dual meet, 16-47 Missouri, aided by foreign runners, guarded optimism is the fact that (lowest score wins), and later in the will be excellent. Notre Dame is weaker this year than year defeated Northwestern by a To make matters tougher for the last because it lost three out of its similiar 16-44 score. However, head Irish, Northwestern had a good top four runners. Graduation coach Joe Piane, entering his tenth recruiting year by signing four out­claimed 1983 co-captain Andy Dil­season as coach of the Irish, warns standing distance men, including lon, along with his talented teammates Ralph Caron and EdJuba. These three consistently finished among the top four Irish runners in 
meets last year and will he sorely missed. Despite the heavy losses to graduation, there are many bright 

Baseball teatn opens up 
fall season tomorrow 
spots for the Irish this year. One of ByTOMYOON Clementz, Tom Conlin, Jim Dee, the top Irish runners last year and a Sports Writer Brian Gibbons, Mike Metzler and leading returnee is three-time 
Th~ Observer/File Photo 
team captain Carl Vuono. Gallo must monogram winner Tim Cannon. The Notre Dame baseball team find adequate replacements. Most of Cannon returns to Notre Dame for 
The Notre Dame cross country team opens its season today with 

opens its fall schedule this weekend Notre Dame's hitting graduated in his final year after a very successful 
a five-team meetat4p.m. on theBurkeMemorial GolfCourse. Nick 

with a pair of doubleheaders. To­the persons of Dee, Metzler and 
Schrantzpreviews the meet, as well as the upcoming season, in his
see OPENER, page 18

morrow at 1 p.m. onjake Kline Field, Vuono. The three accounted for 
story at left. 

the Irish meet Spring Arbor College close to 80 percent of last year's for two games. Then on Sunday, Irish RBI's. Notre Dame faces Bradley in an­Clementz and Conlin were two of 
Young, exciting team 
other double-dip, also beginning at 1 Gallo's better pitchers. 
p.m. While Gallo says that his defense With most of their games on the and pitching staff will be good, he 
Saint Mary's volleyball begins
weekend, the weekdays are used by acknowledges that hitting will be a Irish coach Larry Gallo and his staff big question mark. His only hope, it By MARK B.JOHNSON tournament, these ladies will be are going to be a great contribution. to teach and sharpen the skills of seems, is that returning players, as SaintMary/'s Sports Editor fielding the most talented and, with­We have an entirely new attitude--a their ballplayers. The fall season is well as his freshmen, prosper. out a doubt, most enthusiastic squad winning attitude --because of also used by Gallo to choose his Returning to the Irish pitching One should not be surprised by in Saint Mary's history. them," related senior co-captain
• 
team for the more important spring staff in 1984 are Joe Dobosh, Brad the uncontainable excitement of "I have quite a few really talented Ann Boutton. schedule. And although the fall Cross, Buster Lopes, Dan Sacchini, coach Brian Goralski's young Saint athletes who know how to play vol­Classmate and fellow co-captain season is basically only an exhibi­Jason Schomer and Mark Watzke. Mary's volleyball team. After all, leyball," says Goralski, "and I really Molly Baker added, "Everyone is tion, Gallo would like to start offon a Both Lopes and Dobosh are coming when it charges into the Chicago have some high expectations for really enthusiastic. We are really winning note. area tonight for this weekend's them this year. Due to the enthusi­young, but I am impressed at how 
With the loss of seniors Mark see FALL, page 13 season-opening Elmhurst College asm, I think this is a really good team well everyone is working together." 
to coach, and I am pushing them a Teaming with Boutton and Baker, little harder because ofit." both of whom are four-year players, 
Testing that enthusiasm this will be an array of youth and talent. weekend will be a host of talent Sophomores Ann Brown and Patty which includes six NCAA schools. Williams both are expected to reach
Surprises, surprises 

Only one other NAIA competitor, St. their potential as a middle blocker Francis, which placed in the final and an outside hitter, respectively, four of the state of Indiana last after banner freshmen years in theAfter last Saturday's game, one ofthe Purdue assistant season, will be there. starting rotation.
coaches was riding down from the press box in an 
Mike Sullivan 
"As far as this weekend goes, it is Classmate Mary Dilenschneider,elevator when he shook his head and said, "All that tal­going to be a tough tournament, and who is athletically eligible for fourent and you lose, you gotta be nuts." The elevator door Editor we are going to have to play really full years because she transferred in
opened and he ran out cheering toward the locker-~-----------------~ well as a unit in order to win some last season, is one offour setters ex­
room. matches," says Goralski. "So if we pected to see a lot of action. Also 
can win a few, I will be really happy. aiding with the setting duties, a'> wellIfyou can say one thing about the Notre Dame foot­But I am not going to take anything as strengthening the defense, will beball team, it's that it never ceases to come up with a new upset by Arizona and bounced back to "tie" Oregon, .negative from it because it is going junior Rita Schubert, who returnssurprise. You expect the Irish to beat Air Force, and 13-13. 
to be a learning experience for most from a year offoreign study. 
they lose. You expect them to lose to Boston College, Notre Dame has an excellent opportunity to prove 
of them." Freshman Anne Willard, who hadand they win. Last week they surprised us with their that this year is different from the past three years by A problem of years past, depth considered attending Notre Damepoor performance against a Purdue team that may be winning on Saturday. MSU is going to be a tough op­looks to be one of the squad's until her height worked against herthe second-or third-worst team they will play this ponent and the Irish are going to have to struggle for a strongest points this season. in recruiting, should receive the
season. win. Granted, the Spartans aren't Miami or Penn State, "The team as a whole is going to starting call as a setter. Of Willard,Then again, maybe "surprise" is the wrong word. but the Irish have proven that they can beat anybody, or be really good," Goralski says, "and Goralski had nothing but praise.
"/feel/ike I've been lied to." lose to anybody. They just haven't proven that they can it is going to be hard for me to put "She loves to win and she is prob­That's what at least one student said after the game, bounce back from a loss. 
just six out on the court. I am going ably the most enthusiastic playerand it actually may be close to the truth. Remember the In order for the Irish to turn things around, however, to try to utilize as many players as I that I have ever seen," says the Saintold fable about "the boy who criedwolf." the coaching staff is going to have to get its act together. 
can without discouraging anybody Mary's coach. "She is going to be aThe students have been told that "this could be the Fumbles and interceptions are one thing, but a badly­from playing, but this year if some­big asset to us this year because sheyear" for the past three, now four, years. They have got­prepared team is another. And there is no doubt that body is not going to perform for me, gets everybody on the court really
ten their hopes up so many times only to be rewarded Notre Dame was not prepared for the Boilermakers. they are just going to come out." motivated. She is just a great lady to
with an 18-16-1 record that at least some of them are The coaches admitted that the Purdue pass offense Discounting the relative lack of have out there."
beginning to feel that nobody --not the press, not the confused them by sending a player in motion. They team height, Goralski is looking to In her first year of varsity play is
coaches, not the players --know what they are talking tried to adjust at halftime, but it didn't help. other areas to earn victories. sophomore Kathy Copeland, who is
about. Purdue quarterback Jim Everett said that the Notre "I think we are just going to serve described as a "good all-aroundIt's very hard to have confidence in a team that, year Dame defensive scheme was "simple," and that his and dig everybody off the court," he player" and who is expected to seeafter year, never plays as well as everyone says it can. teammates always seemed to know where the pass rush boasts, while adding, "I hit balls at action when needed with trouble
It's too early in the season to predict what will hap­was coming from. them as hard as I can, and they areas. Mary Carole Feldman and Erin
pen, but, after one game, the team hasn't played like When linebacker Mike Golic went out with an injury, respond with 'cake' and 'next."' Smith are two highly-touted fresh­everyone was told it would. How many times have Faust his place was filled by a freshman who, the coaches ad­Attitude seems to be the big im­men from the same high school whoand his players said all that mattered was the perfor­mitted, wasn't prepared properly. Can you imagine not provement over last season's 12-13 work well together, and who shouldmance on the field? Then they go out and hand the first preparing a second-string player to play, especially at a slate recorded during Goralski's first have plenty of opportunities to strut
game to Puruue? position that has been riddled byinjuries over the past year at the helm, and most of the their stuff during the sea.,on.
Maybe tomorrow's game can be the one that begins few years? 
praise appears aimed at the fresh­"Awesome" is how Goralski des­to earn back people's confidence. In case you don't Finally, in the crucial moments ofthe game, the head­men, who comprise the largest part cribed Indiana University transfer
know, the Irish have never rebounded from a loss with a phones break and the coaches on the sideline don't call of the young team with six mem­Mary Reidy. As a sophomore, she is
win in more than three years. The only time they have a play, forcing the quarterback to call the play himself. 
bers.
lost just one game in a row was in 1982. They were Well, at least it makes thing~ interesting. 
see YOUNG, page 16"The freshmen and newcomers 






