Keenan Revue -page 7 


The Bradley
Tongue-tied? 
There doesn't seem to be a clear winner in this Susan Hamilton record the moment on film. impromptu contest between Catherine Hill and Other challengers can find the snowman in front her icy North Quad friend. Diane Schnell and ofBreen-Phillips Hall. 


Purdue game caravan to provide free transit to 7,000 by bus, train 
By MARK WORSCHEH McDonnell also said he is looking January 1983, said Welsh, but during News Editor into the possibility ofgetting a train negotiations.it was pointed out that to carry up to 1,000 students to In­the game really would not be a home Look out Kokomo! The citizens of dianapolis. "We're checking to see if game for the University. 
Plymouth and Peru, Ind., better keep there are the proper connections," " 'Why don't we bring the stu­an eye out, too. The biggest thing to he said, adding that the train might dents down then?' I said to them," roll through the state shce the Indy be able to leave from the tracks said Welsh, who formed Football 
SOO will hit these cities Sept. 8 as along Douglas Road, near the Credit Promotions Company, Inc. to more than I50 buses -and maybe a Union. manage and promote the game. train -cruise down U.S. 31 on the The man in charge ofgetting that Welsh also is involved in trying to way to the Notre Dame-Purdue foot­train is Kelly Flynn, a 1973 Notre bring an National Football League ball game in Indianapolis. Dame graduate and a member ofthe team to Indianapolis. 
Negotiations are undenvay be­Board of Trustees of the Indiana Gene Corrigan, director of ath­tween the Student Activities Office Transportation Museum in In­letics for Notre Dame, agreed that 
and several bus companies to dianapolis. "It looks like it has great transportation was "part of the bar­provide transportation for any Notre possibilities," Flynn said yesterday. gain which we struck with them." Dame or Saint Mary's student who "We (the museum) own four diesel Two conditions were placed on 
wishes to attend the game. There locomotives which we used during a moving the game from Notre Dame would be no cost. 10-day stretch for the Indiana State to Indianapolis, said Corrigan. First, "Right now we have several bus Fair." the prices for the student tickets companies and transportation com­Flynn said the tracks are in good would remain the same, and second, panies from Indianapolis trying to shape. "A train could load up, make students would be able to get free locate equipment," said James the full trip and unload in about transportation down and back. McDonnell, director of Student Ac­three hours," he said. "I can't im­McDonnell envtstons having titivies, who estimated that 7,000 agine anyone who wouldn't go to . buses assigned to each dorm, and persons might make the trip. that game. I can't think of anything dorms will be abk to join with other 
Not only would it be a fun trip. more fun." dorms on campus, such as Grace said McDonnell. but it could be a Train travel is t he "most cost­with Pasquerilla East or Stanford n·cord-breaking one as well. "A guy efficient way," said Flynn, who sug­with Breen-Phillips. from United Limo (a local bus com­gested that multiple trips could be "The same thing applies to Saint pany) contacted the Federal made, leaving early in the morning Mary's students. If tl.ose halls want Transportation oftke, and the guy or even the night before. to combine that will be fine," he there could remember a 71-bus trip, The inaugural game ofthe 61,200-said. but we'd more than double that," seat Hoosier Dome was the choice MBA, Law School and other McDonnell said. of Indianapolis businessman Bob graduate students also would be 
"There's supposed to be 160 feet Welsh, who approached Father Ed­eligible. between each bus, and if all of them mund Joyce, executive vice presi­The tailgating tradition of Notre left at the same time, this guy es­dent of the University, with the idea Dame might become a part of the timates our motorcade could be 5 in November 1982. 
see BUS, page 3
1/2 miles long." The plans were finaliz<:d in 


Hit-and-run defense says evidence ag'ainst driver is coincidental 
By Bll..L KRAIS he had had "six or seven beers at a News Staff party at Campus View, before leaving with Beth Mcinerny." Mcinerny could not answer many 
Sixteen months after Notre Dame questions posed to her by Assistant students Kerry Mannion and Beth Prosecutor Sanford Brook or by Mcinerny, allegedly were struck by McCallaghan. She attributed her in­a vehicle driven by Russell Micinski ability to answer questions con<.:ern­of South Bend, the case has come ing events up to two weeks before before Superior Court Judge and four weeks after the a<.:<.:ident to Beamer. her severe <.:ase ofamnesia. 
Yesterday, in the second day of Mannion testified he had sus­hearings, defense attorney Patrick tained injuries inducting a "broken McCallaghan held that the evidence left ankle. broken right tibia and is circumstantial and posed the fibula. a fra<.:tured fourth vertebrae. a question. "Did the vehide cause the concussion and torn ligaments in accident, or was the accident caused both knet:s." He was hospitalized in by the two being in the roadway, South Bend for three weeks before dressed in dark clothing, on a foggy being moved to a hospital in night?" Syracuse, N.Y. When <.:ross­
Micinski is charged with driving examined by McCallaghan. Mannion while intoxicated, causing serious said his injuries were "getting bet­bodily injury, and leaving the scene ter" but still bothered him. of an acddent. The defendant has Mcinerny could not testify as to pleaded not guilty to each of these the extent of her injuries. She did, charges. however, say she still suffers from 
The incident occurred in the early severe memory lapses. hours of Sept. 26, 1982, near Both Mannion and Mcinerny are Campus View Apartments. Mannion back at Notre Dame, but both will testified he was "headed back to graduate two semesters later than either the party (which he had left originally planned. Mannion expects earlier from Campus View) or back to graduate in December 19~4, to the (Mannion's) house with Beth while Mcinerny hopes to graduate Mcinerny." in August or December 1985. Be­
McCallaghan said the evidence is cause of her amnesia, Mcinerny was circutp.stantial and the findings of forced to switch her major from the F.B.I. investigation are incon­Latin to Economics. clusive. He added that even if his Brook used Micinski's own admis­client were responsible for the acci­sion and a doctor's testimony to es­dent, the question of intoxication is tablish the case of intoxication. still unanswered. Brook said he believes the F.B.I. fin­
Micinski's own admission "I may dings provide enough evidence to 
have had a few too many" is the only convict the defendant. 
evidence concerning intoxication The jury of four men and three 
brought to court thus far. No chemi­women will begin deliberations this 
cal test or any other evidence of in­morning, after final arguments have 
toxication has been presented. been heard. If Micinski is found 
Mannion said he had little guilty, both Mcinerny and Mannion 
recollection of events leading up to plan to sue the defendent in civil 
the accident. however he added tnat court. 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-
The Observer Thursday, February 2, 1984.-page 2 

In Brief 
Housing contracts must be returned by 5 p.m. today to rt·scrvc on-campus housing for next year. Signed cards should be rcturnt·d to the Housing Office, Room 31 5 of the Administration Building. -The Observer 
Knights ofColumbusat Notre Dame has initiated nine members in a ceremony performed by the K of C's 1st Degree Team. Interviews fi>r joining the local council will take place Feb. 22 at 7 p.m. Information is available in the Knights of Columbus Hall, east of the bookstore. -The Obsen,er 
Male beauty contests in Big Ten schools arc being encouraged by a Purdue student in order to produce models for a Playgirl feature, Men of the Big Ten. JeffJackson sent form letters to student governments at Big Ten schools. His idea was ridiculed at the University oflowa, but reportedly accepted at Indiana University and Michigan State. -The Obsen1er 
"The Peaceable Kingdom," a book by Stanley 
llaucrwas, professor of theology at Notre Dame, recently has been publisht·d by the University of Notre Dame Press. While the book is intended to be an introduction to Christian ethics, Hauerwas writes in a preface that he hopes, "and deeply so, that the reader might come to appreciate, if not agree with, the stress on the centrality of nonviolence as the hallmark of the Chrsitian moral life." Nicholas Lash, professor of theology at Cambridge lhiversity, says the book's arguments "combine to a degree quite unusual in contemporary theology c.:larity, frankness, firmness and compassion. The Peaceable Kingdom establishes Hauerwas beyond doubt as a major voice in English-speaking theology." -The Observer 
Of Interest 
History buffs at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's should get their typewriters cranked up for an essay competition sponsored by the Committee on the History of the University. A SSO prize will go to the student who writes the best essay on the history of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. Judging will take place at the end of the at:ademic year by the committee. There is no length requirement, and the deadline is April 23. Entries should be submitted to Profes­sor Philip Gleason of the history department. -The ObsertJ(>r 
No one likes plain whiteT-shirts. That's why the Mardi Gras Committee is sponsoring aT-shirt design contest to add color and life to the Mardi Gras festival in March. Students should submit entries -in black ink -to the Office ofStudent Activities in LaFortune no later than Feb. I 0. First prize is a S I 5 gift certificate for art supplies. Qut·stions can be directed to Karen Klocke or Noel Liebert. -The Obsert•er 
The Northeast Neighborhood needs help. 
and a group ofsllHknts will be meeting today to discuss the needs of that area. Tht· neighborhood encompasses the northeast sector of South lknd. and it~ center is approximately the intersection ofEddy St. ami State Road 2.\. The meeting bt·gins at~ p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Obserz•er 

Weather , 
Cloudy and breezy tonight with 4o percent chance of ruin. Rain changing to snow showers before midnight. Low in low to mid 20s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow with a few morning flurries possible. High in low 50s. 
Today's issue was producc..·d hy: 
Ot•sign Editor ............ Caroll' I.augil'r
Th<· Observer ( I'SI"> ~lJ<J 2-·lOOO) b 
Design Assistant .......... Maureen Murphy
puhlish<·d Monday throu~th Frilla) ami 
L<IJ'Ollf Sttlff .. .............. Lisa, Phyllis, Mike 
on home.· football ~aturdop,.·~. c..·xcept 
1)•pe.«•llers ...................... Carol and Tt·d 
during exam and va<.:atlon pt.:rim.b. The 
Neu•s l:'clilor ......... . .......... Amy Stephan
Observer Is puhli~hc..·d hy rht.· studcnt!'o of 
Cop)' Editor.... .. Paul and Dave:
Ill<' I'nivc:r~ily ol Notre.· l>anH" and Saim 
\{mrts Copy /:'<Illor. .............. Ed Konracly
Mary·'s Collc..-gc..·. ~uh~<.·r1pticm.., my he.· 
Ff•atu.n•s Cvpl' Editor. . ..... Mary lfc..·aly
purdta-'l'll for S.l~ pn )Tdr ( S I~ pn 
Featurt•s Luyout... . ........ Mary II., again
"··nlc..·stt..•r) hy writin~ lbe Obst."rver, 
NIJ /Jay F.cJitor. .. ....... Melinda Moore
P.< ). Uox Q, Notre.· Dame.·, Indiana -f(,.:;';(l. 
.\MC /Jay l:'tlilor... .............jody Radkr
The Observer is a mcmh<·r ofl'he As­
..ttl Dt.>Sil!.ll ..................................... Paul Slota 
sociated Press. All rl'prmlul'tion rifl,hts 
Photograpb<'1'... ...................... Paul Citarelli 
arc.· rc.:!'llcrvcd. 

'--------------'--------------l 


'Dry campus' would dry out 
more than student social life 
And why behold the splinter in your brother's eye, but not consider the beam in your own eye? Matthew7:3 
Talk of a dry campus began with the release of the Priorities and Commitments to Excellence report. It has become the hottest campus topic since Univer­sity President Theodore M. Hesburgh grew a beard. 
University officials arc rightly concerned about al­coholism on· campus. After all, one need not be a physician to know many Notre Dame persons drink too much. 
Go to any section party or hall dance -everyone gathers around the keg, er, bar. Hello beer, goodbye pain. 
Take a walk to any tavern at Five Points-once again, the message is clear: drink until you feel drunk or till your money runs out. 
Let's be realistic. Dry 
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursday 

writers were worried. 

The only problem is, not all of these persons arc stu­
dents. • 

Ever attend a Notre Dame Alumni Club meeting 
where no liquor was served? 

Ever attend a faculty reception where there was no 
wine or beer? 

Ever attend an administration-sponsored event 
where there was no alcohol? 

Even Holy Cross priests are affected. The Order of 
Holy Cross, much as every 
other religious order of 
campus laws would be as un­men, carries its share of al­enforceable as prohibition coholics. ­was in the 1920s and 1930s. 
For better or wor¥=, few 
Students would turn dor­Notre Dame persons, know mitory rooms into speak how to have fun '1\ithout 
easies while one student 
drinks in their hands. 

acted as sentry to guard Instead of only trying toagainst an unplanned rec­convince University ad­tor's entrance. 
ministrators that studentsSuch conditions would can drink responsibly, Stu­turn most every Notre Dame dent Body President Brianstudent into a liar or con­Callaghan should be tellingspirator. 
Hesburgh's assistant, FatherAt Mormon-administered William Beauchamp. toBrigham Young University, clean up Notre Dame's rolemany drugs are successfully models before the Univer­banned, including alcohol sity tries to save students and caffeine. But to ever AND NOW II TWIST • •• TO A OK'/ CMIPIIS. 
from themselves. 


seriously believe Notre Dame could imitate B.Y.U. is to believe there will be coeducational dormitories while Hesburgh is president. 
But supposing alc.:ohol could be banned from the campus. What would some conscientious person advise? Who would be affected? 
Adry campus for everyone, that's what. 
Alcohol's primary purpose is to make one feel better. 
Without liquor many men and women would never have met each other. Tense, worried about making fools of themselves, persons are often hesitant about starting a conversation without a crutch. And for many, the cheapest and most socially acceptable crutch is al­cohol. 
Yet alcohol does not stop always at opening relation­ships. Too often, it follows a lonely individual into his or her apartment, room or home. 
Sadly, it is easier to lie to a bottle of bourbon than to an inquisitive member of the opposite sex. 
These are the persons about whom the PACE report 
It is admirable to dis­courage minors from abusing a drug through rules forbidding its usc. It is quite another matter, however, to sell alcohol at alumni club parties, the Morris Inn or University Club and expect students to abstain from liq­uor. 
IfNotre Dame is to be a dry campus, so should it be­for everyone, not only students. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board orstaff. 
rbe Observer LaFortune officc accepts classified advertising from 9 Lm. to 4:30p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office In the Regina 
Hall b~mcnt is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The dn.dline for next day ~rvice is 3 p.m. All dassifkd ads must be prepaid. either in penon or through the mall. Charge is len cents per seven charac· ters, per day. 
lfs happening here! 
Right next to Ft. lauderdale 
with six miles of white 
sandy beach, a boardwalk, 
lower hotel rates and great 
places to eat and party. 
Plus, we're the home of Six 
Flags Atlantis, World's 
largest Water Theme Park! 
Send today for your free 
color poster of"The Rivals" 
and also a free copy of 
our hotel guide. Why not 
spend Spring Break In 
Hollywood for a change... 
lfs where rivals revel! 
Fill out the coupon below 
and mall to: 
r~;;;r-;~~;:;=;;-,
I of Commerce, P.O Box 2345 I1Hollywood, Florida 33022 1 
I Nome I 
I School Nome I 
I Add I 
I I
I City I I Stole/Zip I
L----------1 

The Observer Thursday, February 2, 1984 -page 3 
B 

Some rectors ignore hall J-Boards says survey by Judicial Council 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY Gleason said, adding, the boards or how to defend themselves in dis­StaffReporter "must open the lines ofcommunica­ciplinary situations. tion." "I can help," said Gleason. "I can 
Rectors of six dormitories do not The Judicial Council also dis­represent them. Dean (of Students use hall judicial boards to to solve cussed its role in the upcoming James) Roemer can be very in­disciplinary problems, according to campus-wide elections. timidating." a survey make public at last night's "We all have our biases," said The council is planning an Judicial Council me4~ting. Gleason, "but we have to administet agressive campaign to publicize this 
Of the 16 board members who the elections fairly." free service to students. responded to the su rvey, six said Gleason added, "We're going to their rectors did not use the hall have an election workshop to show judicial boards to settle disciplinary what the process is." The workshop problems. Six others said their halls has been tentatively scheduled for 

Bus· 

had not encountered any discipli­Feb. 8. nary problems or the: issues brought Joe Roveda, chairman of the Du 
Continuedfrom page I 
to the boards were not of a discipli­Lac Review Committee, announced nary nature. that the council will hold "an open trip as well. Four judicial board chairmen said hearing so students can voice their "There seems to be an under­
their boards were being used. The views" on the student handbook. standing that when groups charter average number of cases brought Such a hearing will not be easy, interstate buses, as opposed to a before them as of November was said Roveda. school bus, no restrictions on two. "It's never clear-cut. DuLac never J smoking or alcohol apply. Most 
Judicial Coordinator Bob puts the punishments with the rules. groups that go on excursion t shave a Gleason, however, saw some "very We don't want the report we are nice time on the bus," said McDon­
· encouraging signs." Thirteen judi­preparing to be solely from us. We nell. cial board chairmen said they had want it to come from the students." Considering the early departure good or excellent rappo rt with their The Du Lac hearing, according to time -probably 8 a.m. -McDon­rectors. Roveda, will be held within the next nell hopes that the halls "have soft 
"What we've got to do is take our three weeks. drinks, coffee and pastry available, case to the rectors and stress the im­Gleason also said many students but if they have other refreshments, portance of using the boards," are not aware of the judicial process they have other refreshments." 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP 
. . 
ENGINEERING FUTURE. 

How man;• corporations would b~ willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company :-~iter gruduation·' L'ndN a spf'cial ~a\'y program we're doing just that. I r's called the :'\uclear Propulsion Officer Cand_idate-College Program. .-\nd und£>r it. you'll not on!~· get great pay during your junior and s~mur .\'t:~ars. but aiter graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduatc-ie\·cl training that is not a\'ailable from any other employer. 
II you an• a .iunior or senior maioring in math, engineering or ,j\ ·physical scienCl'S, find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. For•more informrtion. call the l'\·a\;al Management Programs Office at: 
Call Toll Free 1-800-382-9782 
Navy Representative will be on campus 
November 30 and December 1, 1983 

Financial Analysts 

We are recruiting 1984 graduates for financial analyst positions in our Corporate Finance Department. No experience is required and degree candidates for any major are welcome to apply. A description of the financial analyst position is on file at the placement office. 
Applicants should send a resume and a cover letter by February 15th to Andrew McCarthy, Corporate Finance Department, Salomon Brothers Inc, One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004 (212) 747-5055. 
Salomon Brothers Inc 
/ GRADUATE STUDENTS PRAYER GROUP SHARING ·SUPPORT· FELLOWSHIP Starting January 26 4:30 • 6:00PM BULLA HOUSE (Corner of Juniper god s, '"O Rds ) FOR MORE INFO. CALL STEVE 287-4186 OR MARY 239-5242 Sponsored By G.S.U. and Campus Ministry  

AL-ANON Do you have a friend or f·amily member who has a drinking problem? Maybe our AI·Anon group is for YOU! Who:· For Notre Dame 1Saint Mary's College students When: every Thursday at 4:00pm beginning January 26. Where: Coundeling & Psychological Services Center, •• ,G. N,.Q. St~:J~dent Health Center Contact: Peggy Cronin or Monica McNamara at C&PSC, 239-7336 or 239-5085  



Non-Varsity Athletics Present: 
YOUR HEALTH 
A 3 night seminar that may change the way you live Sunday, February 5 7:00pm 
"Why Good Health...And By the Way What Is It" Thursday, February 7 7:00pm "America's Changing Diet: Improving on 
Salt, Cholesterol, and More Fast Food" Wednesday, February 8 7:00pm "Did You Know You're Feeling Stressed" LaFortune Center Classroom ·1st floor The cost for 3 nights of YOUR HEALTH-$3 You Must Register in Advance Ca/1239-6100 

"" #e~ 
~~ 
.,., 
0 
~ 
Thursday, February 16 Conducted by St. Joseph Sportsmed · 
Health Awareness Program Includes: Cardiovascular Stress Test, Blood Pressure Response to Exercise, Flexibility Test, Muscular Strength & Symmetry, Percent Body Fat Analysis Plus: Group. Feedback Session 
Deadline to Register-Feb. 8 Cost-$15 Cal/239·6100 

. 
,·, 



The Observer Thursday, February 2, 1984/: page 4 


New budget to bring record deficit 
Associated Press than S200 billion in l98S and 1986. budget, the president said the na­"That's what we're trying to avoid," tion's economic health is proof that 
WASIIINGTON-The S92S.S bil-he said. his fiscal program over the past lion budget President Reagan sent to three years has been the right Congress yesterday mirrors his goals On Capitol Hill, House Speaker medicine. for the nation: to increase its military Thomas P. O'NeillJr., D-Mass., sharp­
stren~th and to do it without raising ly criticized the budget, complain­In all, Reagan is asking for l98S taxes. Hut the plan is burdened with ing of its "ridiculous spending" on defense outlays of S264.4 billion, a a projected S I 1'10.4 billion deficit. the military and the enormous 14.S percent increase over current 
It reco~nizes the reality that in an deficits. spending. Discounting for inflation, cln:tion year Congress would In a message included with the it is a 9.3 percent boost. oppost· cuts in domestic spendin~. Ah~t·nt from Reagan's package for the I'JH'i t1scal year that hegins Oct. is any comprehensive blueprint for significantly cutting the deficits within the nt·xt sevt"fal years. That is bdn~ left for bipartisan nt·gotiations among members of Congress and White !louse officials. Reagan says those talks, expected to begin next wn·k, should lead to a three-year, $100 billion ''down pay­ment" on the deficits. But lkmocrats -sensing the big 
10 or more

dose of red ink in Reagan's budget may be a potent campaign issue ­
receives 1 0°/o discount 

said they would raise the ante and call what they claim is an election­
Free Delivery to NO & SMC 
year bluff' by the president. "We'll call you and raise you, and 
1636 N. Ironwood 
we'll be prt·pared to make some real­
6 55 

ly hi~ reductions in the deficit," said 
•
277 1 

!louse Majority Leader Jim Wright, ..................._............,.,.........,.........,....,..,.......,_....__..,.,..........,_....,.,_,_......,..___._....,....,.. _ _.._ D-Texas 


--gQowe~tg fyof£ aQQ occagLotlg" 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway· 232-3354~ 
Witt fKniglJta nftlJ.e C!tastl.e 
\'\ II 

minutes from campus 
Hair Cut Shampoo Blow Dry & Condition 
, 54533 Terroce Lana, ' Soutll IJand (Across from 
Reg. $15·00 
\ Martin's on S.R. 23) 
Now $8·50 with coupon 
T, W B:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons Th 8:30-8:30 Fr 8:30-6:00 s 8:30-2:30 
Closed Mon 277·1691 272·0312 -••••••••••••••6.50 Savings•••••-••••··--.I 

lie said Democrats now are 
searching for 5200 billion in reduc­
tions. Much of that likely would 
come from tax increases and 
military spt·nding l'Uts Reagan has 
rult"d out. 
At a rll"WS conference on the 
budget, key administration officials 
rt•pt·atl'lll)' made a pitch for 
Congrt·ss to bcgin work on thc 
"down paymt·nt." 
Budget Dirt'CIOr David Stockman said tht· administration assumes measures would be taken in l'JHS and 11.)1'16 to substantially reduce the deficits. 
"It is not our intent that deficits of 
this magnitude of S I HO billion in 
I'JH/ should actually unfold," ht· 
said. 
Without deficit-paring actions, he said, the red ink could swell to mort· 

Hispanics oppose House bill 

§.!rohs 6.77 Miller 
7.59
case

Strohs 
Old Style 
Schlitz or 
KegsHaiiBBL 

28.88 ~f 'f/ Old ... 
b.~ght 6.99 

~ Milwaukee 
Budweiser

2uarts 60e 
2uarts 77e 

Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Leaders of the nation's major Hispanic organiza­tions announced last-ditch plans yesterday to enact their own proposal to substitute ti1r a Reagan administration-backt·d bill awaiting House action. 
With both politit'al parties court­ing the llispanil.: vote in tht· li.JH-1 clt·ction, thc leaders said they would press tht· White !louse and lloust· Spcakt·r Thomas P. O'Neill to aban­don a measure which has twice passnl tht· St·natt· and is pending bcfort· thc llousc Rules Committee:. 
"If tht· speakcr fails to take our recommendation. we certainly want to put that leadcrship on notice that the llispanic population, particular­ly in those crucial states of florida, California and Texas, is going to remember that come the t:di," Mario Obledo, president of the l I 0.000­mcmher League of llnited Latin American Citizens, told a news con­fercnce. 
The Hispanic leaders said there was unanimous concern at their two-day summit conference about 
Sea~.r5la m 7 2for$20.00 
Paul Masson Wines 
20°/o OFF 
M & R Asti 7.77 

Visa, Mastercharge, and Student Checks Welcomed 
Fleischmanns  
Vodka 1.75l  
7.39  E&J Brandy750ml  
Jack Daniels  5.66  
750ml  
7.77  750ml  
4.99  
Kayser  

Zonin Lambrusco
2.99 
2.19
Carlo Rossi 3L J. Roget
3.89 
Champagne 
2.19
Win A Trip To 

the pt•nding measure's provision 
Check Our Everyday Florida For
imposing fines and criminal penalties on employers who 
Low Prices -·-'"·'...., ·Spring· Break 
...ltftoc
..IOC 

knowingly hirt· illegal immigrants. The participants said employc:rs Prices Good Thru Sat. Feb. 4 See details in store 
would be leery of hiring anyone with a Hispanic surname. 

The Observer Thursday, February 2, 1984 -page 5 
A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student for the 
Distinguished Student A ward 
IS 
Friday, February 17 


Nomination forms are available in the Student Government Office in LaFortune, the Center for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 

Presenttbis coupoa oqolno3f10/84


_;.,A, 

; ------~1.~1 ------i 
I Enjoy Barclay's 2nd Annual I 
1 
I

I I 
I PRIME RIB I I 
I I 



I FEAST I I 
I 
I 
I 
: N 0 
I 52885 U.S. 31 Nortlt South Bend 
For a limited time you enjoy our stan­dard cut of succulent a bottom­tureen of soup, bread and your of baked potato, home fries or 
With this coupon you pay only $5.951 I Unbeatable!! 1 
I 
Offer good dinner 1 
hours only, limit of 
2 dinners per coo-I 
pon. May not be 
used with other I 
coupons or adver-1 
tised specials. Does not include I tax or tip. 
OUR REGULAR IIEJIU I IS ALSO AYAILlllL I 
_I 
CliP,tll~~BUR9..~~ ~ 
offer expires311 0/84 : 

AT&T mails wrong credit cards 
Associated Press 
BEDMINSTER, N.J. -AT&T offi­cials said yesterday they have mailed an estimated 4,700 telephone credit cards to the wrong customers, and appealed to consumers to "be honest" and not use them fraudulently. 
AT&T was in the process of mailing out 47 million credit cards when customers began calling to say they had received cards with the wrong name and telephone number, said Maureen Dvorak, spokeswoman at AT&T's Communications Divi­sion headquarters here. 
AT&T spokesman Jerry Santos said the firm believes the problem is limited and that it would not be necessary to stop the mailing of those not yet sent. 
He said the company estimated about 0.01 percent -or 4,700 ­cards had been incorrectly mailed. 



EASY RIDER 
TO AND nOM CHicAGO'S O.'HAD EVIllY 2 HOURS t;VD_Y blY 
'VAN LINES Runs this weeliend·-.Fri.. Sat. -movies, shopping, dining~1 -Uriiv~sity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50¢ Round trip. Pay as you board atND Circle, Grotto, s~s; tf~ly Cro~~-~ircle Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 
4:00 on Sat. 
i-le said he did not know how that 
figure was determined. 

"It's not really a large problem. It is only a small fraction that will cause problems, and we don't think fraud will be a big factor because the error rate is so low," he said. 
Dvorak said the firm had set up a hotline for customers to report receiving the wrong card, but that it was too early to tell how many of those calls had come in. 
"We're appealing to our cus­tomers to help us by reporting any error to us immediately," Dvorak said. "We're asking our customers to be honest." 
AT&T officials said they do not know how much the errors will cost. 
Dvorak said the company would not have a firm grip on the problem until the first round of bills comes due March 1 under the new system put into effect when AT, was broken up jan. 1. 

The problem arose when s, cards were placed in the wrong t­\'eiopes for mailing and when some customers moved and cards were sent to their old addresses, she said. One Massachusetts customer repor­tedly received two cards, neither of which belonged to him. 
A wrong telephone number on the card would result in credit card calls being charged to someone else's telephone account. 
Dvorak said one mitigating factor in the potential scope of the problem was that the credit cards were "not sent unsolicited." 
"We only mailed cards to people who were already card holders. This was not a random mailing," she said. 
Dvorak said using the toll-free service -1-800-CALL-ATTS to report the credit card problems would not cost the company extra because it had set up that system nationwide before the first cards were mailed in order to answer questions about the AT& T breakup. 
An operator who answered the toll-free number yesterday said cus­tomers who report receiving the wrong card are told to destroy the card immediately and that they will be issued a new card. 

O'Neill endorses Mondale 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Echoing the Democratic campaign themes qf fairness and the need to end the nuclear arms race, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. yesterday en­dorsed former Vice President Wal­ter F. Mondale for his party's presidential nomination. 
"We desperately need a president who has the experience, the politi­cal skill and the character to be a 
'-.. tough negotiator at the peace table," O'Neill said. The nation's highest-ranking elected Democrat, O'Neill broke personal precedent to support ·Mondale for the 1984 Democratic presidential nomination. 
"I will do everything I can to make sure that Walter Mondale is elected president of the United States," he said. 
"Walter Mondale will unite our country because he will represent all the people," he added. 
Mondale, one of eight Democrats vying for their party's presidential nomination, is the choice of a majority of the Democratic mem­bers ofCongress. 
When asked whether Mondale had the Democratic nomination locked up, O'Neill replied, "I was with Muskie in '72 and I thought he had a lock on it." 
Sen. Edmund Muskie ofMaine was the odds-on favorite for the nomina­tion in 1972 but dropped out of the race after disappointing showings in early primaries and caucuses. 
Mondale visited the Capitol later in the day, met with O'Neill and said the support of the speaker and other House Democrats shows that "we now can offer to the country an ad­ministration that can get things done" by working with Congress. 
The House Democratic Caucus has completed its selection of 164 delegates to the convention and 76, including O'Neill, are openly pledged to Mondale. 
Sen. john Glenn of Ohio has the support of 17 House members; Sen. Alan Cranston ofCalifornia is backed by 11, the Rev. jesse jackson by 7, Sen. Gary Hart ofColorado by 5, for­mer Gov. Reubin Askew of Florida by 4, Sen. Ernest F. Hollings ofSouth Carolina by 3 . 
·-----~---------------· 

Vieweoint 
Thursday, February 2, 1984 -page 6 
Theories which explain Ronald Reagan's success 

flow should we account for Ronald Rl·agan's 56 percent "good joh" poll rating, on thl· eve of his announcement about running, and his similar rating as the man responsible !(>r the extraordinary 3.H percent inflation rate for last year? 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
I have been scouting the theories about him ovl·rhcaring them in bars, on buses and planes, at cocktail and dinner parties -and of course reading them in the pronouncements of my media colleagues. 
line arc a hatch of thl·m. 
TilE DllMB·BllT-LliCKY TIIEORY. llcrc I adhere to the llarry Tmman view that luck tends to CVl'n out hut what counts is what a puhlic figurl· makes of it. 

Note also the corollary of this theory: if Reagan is dumb then the voters are even dum· ber to embrace him as they do. Such a view of the voters is not one for Reagan's opponents to boast about. 
THE CLEVER ACTOR THEORY. This is the opposite of the first. I find it in an Atlantic piece about Reagan on civil rights, by James Mason Miller, which has Reagan practicing "the manipulative techniques of Hollywood" with "an array of acting and script writing cliches," and a "mastery of story-telling tech· niques." 
The trouble with the Reagan-as-actor theory is it explains too much. FOR was a bet· ter actor than Reagan, although never a professional one. But his acting skills dramatized his real achievements. Reagan has not convinced many about his civil rights record, or about what James Wright calls his "cruelly deranged" priorities. But he couldn't have survived politically until he had turned his economic record around in reality. Once that happened he had something to dramatize. 
THE "MEDIA MANIPULATOR" AND "GREAT CHARISMA" THEORY. Reagan knows how to use the media and he looks good on TV. It is accurate to say that he has been a more charismatic president than anyone sinceJohn Kennedy. 
But teletechnics and charisma didn't protect Reagan when things were going wrong and his "good job" polls fell through ~ the floor. They have to have something to work with -namely, results. 
THE ASTUTE POLITICIAN THEORY. This comes closer. He has ridden out storms about his appointees that made presidents like Car· ter flounder. Despite his shifts from the ideological to the pragmatic and back, he has maintained an image ofsteadiness ofdirection and decisiveness ofaction. 
Right now in the coming campaign -with Bill Clark safely tucked away in Interior and Ed Meese moving into Justice, and with James Baker left in charge of Tactics -he is very much the pragmatist, and will run (as Eisen· hower and Nixon did) on "Prosperity and Peace." 
There remains THE COHESIVE CHARA<:. TER THEORY, which I incline to. More than any president since Harry Tmman, Reagan is all ofa piece -a whole man, warts and all. He presents himself on his job as he acts in per· sonal life. Hence his corny stories, his shaky facts, his government by anecdote. 
He carries his official baggage lightly and sees his presidential office as an extension of himself, where Carter saw himselfas an exten· sion ofhis office. Ifhe is an actor (and he is) he belongs to the school of actors who, in whatever role, always play themselves -and what comes through is his character. 
Reagan doesn't -despite the Atlantic piece -"separate his character, in the puhlic mind, from his actions as president." He puts thl·m together, but what stays in people's minds is the character. 
p • 0 • BoxQ 
Abortion talk 
Jear J:'ditor: 
Monday evening I attl·ndnl a talk given by Lori Jo Nl·rad, national prl·sidcnt of WEBA ( Woml·n Exploited by Abortion). ller power 
fully  droVl'  home  the  tragedy  of legalized  
abortion.  
It  isn't  enough  that  16 million  innocent  

babies haVl' been lost (South lknd contrihut· ing 960 just last year), hut now the surviving mothers arc uniting to combat the physical and emotional cfflTts abortion has had on them: everything from sterility, miscarriages and pt·r!i>rated ull'ruses to suicidal ten· dcndcs. feeling dehumanized and child abUSl'. 
I W<L' touched when Ms. Ncrad spoke of her own hl·artachl·. Now sterile herself, she weeps every night because shl· cannot provide her two children with a brother or sister. 
I write this letter to challenge the studt·nt body, pt·t-rs and especially my friends, to raise their consciousness on this issul'. Abortion is a travesty, and Ncrad's lecture shows that it not only affects thl· unborn, hut society as a whok. 
I makl· this challenge not because I think that then· are huge numbers of students who disagrn· with me, hut because for many of us, including myself. abortion has become a "non-issut·." Even many of the studl·nts who 
1H~I'S ONE 
SMAll SlEP 
fOR AMAN... 
-

involve themselves in other pro-life issues such as stopping the death squads in El Sal· vador. or ending the nuclear arms build-up, neglect this pressing issue. 
Not that such causes don't need our attcn· tion. hut one should also realize that 400 die a month in El Salvador, and no one has died in a nuclear explosion since Nagasaki, while 4000 die every day from abortions. 
One of the frustrating things about hccom· ing aware is the helplessness one feels: "What can I do?" For most issues, the least and most we can do is pray, hut as far as this issue is concerned, then· arc ways to act also. 
Last week many ND students partook in a memorial procession outside a local abortion clinic, and currently a student drive is taking place on campus to raise money for a Woman's Pn.·gnancy Help Center in South Bend. Let us not look the other way, hut pray and act together to end this evil. 
Bria11 Crouth 

Alcohol overkill 
Dear Editor: 

I'dlikc to take everyone back in time a few years. to the time we all decided that Notre Dame was the place for us to attend. 
\11:-'hat arc those final factors that influenced our decision: the atmosphere for the campus, the comfortable size, the rich tradition (not limited to athletics), the quality of rcsidcn·ce 
hall life, or simply that Notre Dame is one of 
the finest "all around" universities in the 
country. 
The admissions requirements help to insure that ND accepts people of outstanding character. With ~hcse premises in mind, I ask how one "relatively" unimportant facet of life here can so overwhelm us that we distort our entire image ofthe University-ALCOHOL? 

Many people have threatened to 'move off campus if we make the decision to "conform to the law regarding alcohol." Is this an in· fercncc that alcohol is what keeps them on campus? This threat is almost an insult to our own creativity and admission of a problem. 
Is the threat a statement that says we can't live creatively and enjoy life at Notre Dame without alcohol? The threat does seem to be an admission that we r~fuse to live without alcohol. Is that a symptom of the problem being addressed? 
The PACE Report formed a committee to investiga te the alcohol situation on campus and to make appropriate recommendations. The _committee has done extensive research and has opened channels for student input (students have seats on the committee). The Board ofTmstees (many former NO students) will make the decision. 
The committee has been more than generous with their time in listening to stu· 

Jent input. Father Beauchamp and other com· mittec members have spent many hours and evenings in various halls listening to students. When the decision is made, ll't's accept it responsibly. And if we choose to criticize it. let's criticize it constructively. 
To a baby, a pacifier often seems to be the most important thing in his world. Abruptly take away the pacifier and the child almost becomes unbearable. 
Yet gradually the child's horizons expand and he sees a wide open world of possibilities ofwhich the pacifier was an exaggerated part. By focusing so much attention on the pacifil'f, the child couldn't sec all that the world around him had to offer. 
If the committee decides that our campus should be without alcohol, let's pass up thl· crying stage. Let's open our eyes and sec that life and excellence at Notre Dame and for its individuals is in no way dependent on alcohol for its essence. 
Fra11k A. Leyes 

The Observer encourages the free expression of opinions through letters to the editor. Letters should be brief (approximately 250 words) and typed whenever possible. All letters should be signed (although the author's name need not be published), and should in· elude a phone number at which the author may be reached. Letters are published on a space-available basis. Letters are edited to cor­feet errors in grammar and for space considerations. 
MONDAlE 


AW, QUIT C~PLAININ! AT LEAST YOU'R[ NOT SITTIN IN THE B~CK 
ANYMORE! 
0. 


EditorialBoard DepartmentManagers 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 
P. 0. Hox (,J. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (.! 19) .!39· 5303 Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Busi11ess Manager .. ...............Christopher Owen 
The Obsert•er is thl· indl·pentknt nt·wspapcr puhlishcd hy the studt·nts of thl· l'ni· Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Co11troller ...............................................Alex Szilvas vcrsity of Notre Damt~ du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect News Editot·.................................Bob Vonderheide Adr>ertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole tht· policies of tht· administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac· News Editor.................................... Mark Worscheh Circulation Ma11ager ......................... Mark Miotto curatdy and a~ ohjt:l'tivdy as possible. l'nsigned l'ditoriab represent the opinon of a Saint,Mazy:S Editor .........~,·-~9n~<mastyrski ~vstems Ma11ager ..........: ................ Kevin William~ majority of thl· Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present Sports Editor ................................. Michael Sullivan the views oftheir authi>rs. <:olumn space is available to all mt·mhers oftht· community. Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher Founded November 3, 1966 ami the free cxprcs.o;ion ofvarying opinions on t·ampus, through letters, is encouraged. Features Editor ...............................Sarah Hamilton 
Photo Edttor..........................................Scott Bower 


Showcase 

Thursday, February 2, 1984 -page 7 
Talent, abuse galore-Keenan does it again 
by Margaret Fosmoe 

features staff writer 

T
he Keenan Revue opened last With Cap'n Crunch, The Observer 
night with a lot of talent and ap­bruhaha, the doubtful fate ofthe al­

plause, and a little less subtlety than -cohol policy, the proposed revisal of 
last year's show. the exams policy and so many other 
A number ofinnovative acts things happening, it is surprising allowed the Revue to depart from that the same time-worn formulas the realm of the traditional col­legiate variety show. One of the most eagerly-awaited events ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's entertain­ment calendar is. in its eighth year. experimenting with new forms that add a fresh dimension to the show. 
Ahand's-eye view ofa dorm poker game. complete with appropriate play~:rdia.logue. was on~: ofthe more original p~:rformanccs of the eve­ning. 
A slightly-a.lt~:rcd version of the fairytale "Cinderella"' provided a 
hilarious bit ofsyllabic exercise for 
Lc~: Walsh. 
And a game ofVibro-Football ­
utilizing human players -was a 
short production !hat received an 
immense laugh from the packed 
house. 
While the traditional fat chicks 
wis~:cracks and illusions to the mari­
tal aspirations ofSaint Mary's stu­
dents have become a bit too 
predictable. the Revue managed to 
entertain as always. 
Agood number ofserious musical 
acts. including a rock band. and a 
violin. piano and several vocal solos 
added a new aspect to the show. 
Keenan once again proved that it 
houses some very talented 
musicians. A polka band -com­
plete with bubbles -giving a fair 
rendition ofa certain famous fight 
song, was a nice addition to the eve­
ning. . 
The skits that relied purely on 
much-used stereotypes offorbidden 
kegs and women in jogging suits 
were tiring. "Stanford Food Sales," 
with its dancing roaches, is an ex­
ample that othet skits would have 
been wise to follow. 
Considering 1983-84, this should 
be a bumper year for campus satire. 
nic fun at the Notre Dame lawn 
crew. among others. The act was 
greeted with a few laughs and agreat 
many more hisses by the audience. While it was not totally devoid of humor, parts ofthe skit bordered on tasteless. The Revue would not be any less effective ifthat act were removed for the remaining two shows. 
Several acts that were returnees from last year's Revue were happily welcomed by devoted fans. "An Eve­ning with Theater K." the loveable Keenan Tumblers and still more from "Andy Looney" John Cerabino proved to be memorable parts ofthe evening. 
One act, "Notre Dream,'! gave the audience a surreal glimpse into Notre Dame. It provides an unusual performance that must be observed very closely. 
Other highlights were glimpses at a unionized Indian unbundling some familiar real estate on Father Sorin, urban guerillas kidnapping Billy joel for forcing the Revue to open a night early and a group of hick Notre Dame alumni discussing the 
employment situation. 

In one way, the Revue did not live up to last year's performance. The performers poked plenty offun at their female counterparts this year, but only tookpotshots at the mighty Notre Dame male ego in a single musical number. The test oftrue parody is the ability not only poke fun at others, but also to mock oneself. 
As always, the true highlight ofthe evening was the sheer amount of time and energy the residents of Keenan exerted to present a free show to their fellow students. In the Keenan Revue, that dorm has managed to reach a unity ofachieve­ment that no other hall comes close to matching. With few other formal means ofcampus satire to compete with it, the Keenan Revue has a 
monopoly on the humorous release ofcollegiate pressures. 
This year's Revue, while lacking some ofthe familiar subtlety, is definitely worth catching. Any fina­gling oftickets to tomorrow's or Saturday's show would certainly be worth the effort. fl 
.r 
I 




Sports Briefs 
Your Health is a three-night seminar sponsored by Cen­tury Club and NVA. The seminar runs this Sunday, Tuesday, and Wednesday and is being held in the LaFortune Center Classroom (first floor). Lectures begin at 7 p.m. Sunday's lecture is "Why Good Health ...And By The Way, What is it?" featuring)eliAaron, director ofthe Health and Lifestyle Center. Register for the seminar by calling NVA at 239-6100. The cost is S 3. -The Observer 
The billiards tournamentbegins next week and 
rt"gistration will take place at the poolroom desk. -The Observer 
The ND karate club will not be having practice tonight due to the Billyjoel concert. Practice will resume next Tues­day at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym ofthe ACC. Tuesday will be the last opportunity for new members to join. -The Observer 
Detroit Pistons stars Kelly Tripucka and Bill Laim­beer will be featured guests on "The NBA Report," which airs tonight at 6 p.m. on WSND, AM-64. Gary Jbara and Larry Burke host this weekly feature show on the National Basketball Association. ­
The ObSI!fi'er 
The ND wrestling team was supposed to be headed today for a sunny weekend in California. However, for un­known reasons the trip was cancelled. A dual meet against Miami (Ohio) is tentatively scheduled for Tuesday in the ACC pit. -The Observer 
A bowling league is being sponsored by the NVA office. There is a minimum roster ofsix people, with the deadline for rosters being Feb. R. Four members will bowl each week, for five weeks. -The Observer 
Lifesaving andWater SafetyInstructor Courses 
will be offered at the Rockne Pool at the following times: Lifesaving -9:10-9:45, I 0: I 5-10:50, 11:20-11:50, and I :20-1:55 on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, II :05-12:05, 1:20-2:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and 12-3 on Saturday beginning Jan. 21. Water Safety Instructor classes will be held from 9 a.m. to noon. There will be a charge of S6 for materials for Lifesaving classes and a $20 charge for Water Safety materials. For more information, call Brother Louis Hurcik, C.S.C., at 239-6321. -The Observer 

Thursday, February 2, 1984-page 8 
Workouts for the 54th Bengal Bouts have begun and will continue throughout the semester leading up to the fights. No previousexperience is necessary. Workouts begin at 4 p.m. every day in the north dome ofthe ACC. For information, call Angelo Perino at 3348, Tom Lezynski at 1728, or Mike Latz at 8308. -The Observer 
ATrackcompetitionis being sponsored by the NVA office. Events include 60-yard low hurdles, a mile run, a four-lap relay, 60-ya t rd dash, 440-yard and 880-yard runs, an eight-lap relay, high jump, and broad jump. Points will be awarded for first and second place halls as ranked by points compiled by individuals. To sign up, call 239-6100 or stop by the NVA office in the ACC. -The 
Observer 

A downhill ski trip to Royal Valley is 
being offered by the NVA. The trip, which includes transportation, lift tickets, ski rental, and lessons, covers the nex t t two Tuesday nights. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6690. -The Observer 
A cross country ski tour will be sponsored by 
NVA this Saturday. A S 1 fee includes ski equipment, hot dogs, and 
hot chocolate during the two-and-a-half-hour trip. Register in ad­
v~nce by calling 239-6100. -The Observer 
A fitness screening will be offered on February 16 by NVAand the Century Club. The event will be conducted by the St. Joseph Sportsmed/Health Awareness Program. The cost is $5, which includes tests of cardiovascular fitness, blood pressure response to exercise, muscular strength, symmetry, flexibility, and body com­position. You must apply for the program in person at the NVA office. Call 239-6690 or 239-6100 for more details. Additional information will be in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
Interhall wrestling tournament entries are due Feb. 1 0 at the NVA office. Halls may register as teams, and contestants will be notified of date and time of tourney. Weight classes will be 123, 130,137,145,152,160,167, 177,andunlimited. -TheObserver 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES 
All matches must be played and reponed to the 
NVA office by Wednesday. Feb. 8 Gels-Abd Allah -bye Kimmei-Crouch -bye Gardner-Bono-bye Magn-Zimmer-bye Bush-Macadam (1087) v. Gaub·Prevezek (8456) Barenton·Chludz1nsk1 (3137) v. Atha1de-Zoret1c (8922) Westhoven-Graf (3610) v. Flesh-Grammel Stacker (3626) Hogan-Mornsssey (1722) v. Casey-Partner (8833) McGowan· T utchton (1 026) v. D1ce-Kress ( 8538) Basque-Partner (8502) v. Sernanni-Hardek ( 1371) Takag1sh1-Angelle (1395) v. Wotke-Wagner (6871) Brown-Van Derbek (277·3242) v Lane-HICkey 
(1023) Haimes· Reed (3377) v. Higgins-Sutter (1873) Wayne-Hannigan (1883) v. GroJean-Rademaker (1248) La Chance·Kuppe (0279) v. Bathou-H1IIerman (8313) Boyle-Clement (3210) v. Grant-Baccenan (1746) Gleason-McAvoy (1847) v. Thomasson-Wick (1854) Humphreys-Roth (7912) v. Maher-Cuff (1057) Schunk-Marten (6706) v. Donata-Cohoon (239· 7735) Doyle-Armour (3508) v. Ingrassia· Thursby (8438) Clev1nger-Soha (8674) v. Rehder-Rogers (8022) James·Connolly (1530) v. Quinn-Hardigan (3483) Snyder-Staten (288-8631) v. Smith-Villareal ( 1628) Carney (1587) v. Coyle-Blanton (6380) 
Dugan-Hudson (1620) v. Ka~r1s·Carter (3313) Bogg1o-Ryan (8459) v. Jacopin-Chfford (8171) Bornemann-Bognano (1628) v. O'Doneii-Heghn (8648) 
Quinn·Riehle (8365) v. Sheperd-Drabot (1601) Delehanty-Sayre (1128) v. Haines-Smith (45211 
Men 
continuedfrom page 12 
the trip to the West Glast, he'slucky 
he's still on the team.""" ~ 
And MetroSports, who tekvised last night's game nationally. was lucky if anybody was still watching by the time the tlnal buzzer went off. It was just that kind of a game. 
The Irish, though, would gladly take another such game Saturday if it meant a victory against the Gamecocks. 
IRISH ITEMS -Should the Irish beat South Carolina on Saturday, it would be the 250th win of Phelps at Notre Dame ....The Irish now stand at 14-5 with nine games remaining. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsen'er Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classified' from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next­day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person. 



Classifieds 
or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 
I 
LOST:QUANTITATIVE METHODS Needed: DePaul GA's call2785 KIM, HAPPY 21st Bll!lp-tDAYII LOVE
Will the girl who waltzed off with my HfGH-TECH STEREO Yamaha PX2 TEXT AT SOUTH DINING HALL FRIDAY CHRISTOPHER
sunglasses and my good buddy's top hat automated linear tracking TT David Hatler 
NOTICES 
1120 AT APPROX 1:15. ACTUALLY, I please bring them back. That wasn't very amps:115 w/ch Nakamichi Dragon tape Needed up to 4 Depaul fix. Call Janet at BELIEVE THIS TEXT WAS STOLEN. TO 

nice, you know; as a matter of fact it was deck Magneplanar MG2b speakers all 84-4261 SKI THE PERSON WHO STOLE IT. IF YOU 
CROSS COUNTRY RENTALS pretty mean, but I'll g1ve you the benefit of brand new;must sell CARL 283-1034 ' HOLY CROSS , ASSOCIATES: THURSDAY THRU SUNDAY, CALL NVA HAVE ANY CLASS. EVEN A LITTLE BIT, 
the doubt since you were probably DEADLINE FRIDAY FEil! 3RDIIII AT 239-6100 PLEASE RETURN THIS TEXT TO wasted. If you can't remember who you Want to know what's really go1ng on in the WHJ'flli.. YPU..FlRST APPREHENDED 
took those things from, call~ike at 8288. Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL NEED RIDERSLEAVIN'G'FRIDAY.FOR
I PERSONALS I
TYPING SERVICE IT. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. IF YOU 'cause ft was me. CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only I.U.·JIM 3584 277-6045 newspaper ol the U.S. Church. For sub­
REFUSE TO DO SO YOU ARE SCUM OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIClJOR, WILL PICK UP & DELIVER AND I HOPE YOU ROT IN HELL FOUND: A Man's grey Saranac glove on scription information and a free sample SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL

CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM U.S. 31 N , ONE Jan. 31 in the par1<1ng lot of Lemans at copy, call Paul at 277-4851. WRmNG CONTEST Open to all Grad &
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FOUND ONE SET OF KEYS OUTSIDE 

SMC. To claim please call Lesle at 284· Undergrad students Poetry & Prose ac­S.W211\,0IILIIII OF CORBY'S THURS. NtTE. CALL 1854 
4380. 
cepted with no length requirements Sub­
DO NOT DISTURB THE STUDY HABITS 
on your textbooks by order at Pandora's TO CLAIM. EN DAD mit one copy wrth name and address to: 
r 
OF THE ESOPHAGUS CONSTRIC­
Books lost-Wilson racquetball racquet, light 309 O'Shag by FEB 10 Winners will be
TORS!

Two day delivery serviCe I brown. reward call Stan 1694 notified by FEB 17 For more info call
LOST :Black Casio calculator-watch, on

937 South Bend Avenue at Corby Blvd. Patrick McManus 283-1754 
Fn, Jan 27. II found, please call Marl< at THREE MINUTES TO MIDNIGHT 
Phone 233-2342. LOST: One crimson-colored warm-up
1787 1acket with the word Harvard on the back. I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S. CALL DAVE AT ATTN: Mary Beth Christie, please call

Summt1r Prog"'"'a lor SMC-ND Stu­
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 LAST SEEN in the ACC on 1/21/84. 1801. back. From 227 Dillon. 
LOST: GOLD BEAD NECKLACE WITH dante London Prog,.m May 23-June 
Reward offered. Please call GREG AT ·········· .................
DIAMOND CHIP SPACER BETWEEN 22 (Travel In Ireland, Scotland,
KEENAN REVUE TICKETS ARE 277-5062. Need DEPAUL GA's call John aher 7 pm I£LP NEEDED IN THE NORTHEAST
MIDDLE BEADS IF FOUND. PLEASE F,.nce); Collegoo-level cour..a Rome
GENERAL ADMISSION. Tt. num..... collect (312)998-8384 NEIGHBORHOOD
CALL MARY AT283-6781. Program June 17-July 16 (Travel In
printed on 1M llck81a ARE NOT SEAT COME FIND OUT MOREFrance, Ger., Switz); College-level

NUMBERS. Se.tlng .tiM ahowala 81111 MEETING: THUR. FEB 2, 7:00PM CEN­
LOST: or STOLEN · A Pnnciples ol Need Keenan Rev1ew tickets willing to courses ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
ftrlll come, ftrlll...-wcl. 
TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
FOR RENT

Management book from booksheff pay big$$$. Call TOM 1169 Feb 27 Rm 349 Med-lor Info. call Prof 
outSide bookstore on 1·30. PLEASE 
Black 284-4460 (day) or 272·3728 return. no questions. CALL 1697 $$$$DESPERATELY NEED DEPAUL (e~enlnga). 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE 
TIM HAS HERPES AND NOW SO DOES 

Student rental: 5-6 bedroom house, STUD. TIX CALL JEFF 1026 
SUE FRANKLY JOHN, I THINK YOU'RE A 
LOST BLUE NORTH FACE COAT ON fireplace, dishwasher. & washer & dryer. To the guy from the towers who bought 
STUPID SHEET YOURSELF 

JAN 18 AT SENIOR BAR I THINK WE Call232-4057 or 272-7767. NEED DEPAUL STUD. Til< CALL my Billy Joel ticket( around S pick 460); I HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES: JUST EXCHANGED COATS. PLEASE MARK(Magilla) 1059 lost your name and number. Please call Jim Rickert 1s a man-god I DEADLINE FRIDAY FEB 3RDIII Need one male roomm.te. Rent $80 Chuck at 1972.
CALL AT 1695. per month. One mile north of campus. I NEED DEPAUL TIX (BIG BUCKS) CALL 
Mike Traynor will ba accaptlng happyTO THE GIRL WHO LEFT WITHOUT FOUND-gold Lorus quartz watch wrth a Calf Tom at 277-4151. 277-7570 HOW'S YOUR ASPEN? 
birthday wlahea aff day today In 217 HER BRA FRIDAY NIGHT YOU CAN 

dark lizard band. Found in ACC. call to SPRING BREAK SKI. TRIP $265 
Cavaneugh. Come on owr and makePICK IT UP ANYTIME AFTER 5 1dent1ly 284-4391. INCLUDES 5 DAYS, 6 NIGHTS, 5 DAY

NEED 1 GA & 2 STUDENT TtX FOR the poor guy happy. He'a got a rough DEPAUL$$$$Dave ph1814 ffle.
LIFT TICKET Road tnp to Mad-town Leav1ng fri Feb 3 LOST Jan. 25 .t Senior Bar -navy pea $75 DEPOSIT DUE FRIDAY FEB 3 AT atnoon $25 round tnp Joe x1004 THE NO RECORD STORE 
WANTED 

coat. Pleaae call277-04e6. NEED FIVE TIX FOR DEPAUL!!! Oh, oh, oh. oh yeah STUDENT UNION 
PLEASE CALL SHEILA 3484 we be wor1<1n at de Observer TO THE BORROWER OF MY BLUE AND 
all n1ght long (all night) GREEN SKI JACKET AT THE FISHER WANTED: 2 BILLY JOEL TICKETS. I NEED DE PAUL TIX'S, WILL EX­all mght long (all night) 
\LOST/FOUND I 

PARTY FRIDAY NIGHT · PLEASE CALL 272-5877 AFTER 6:00 PM CHANGE MARQUETTE TIX'S OR LOVE IS ... FLOWERS ON 
UoneiTralnee RETURN IT. IT IS COLD OUT. CASH. CALL JOEL AT 1570 
VALENTINE'S DAYI Looking for 2 dependable females to REGINA'S VALENTINE CARNATION
LOST: J.n. 25 81 Senior Bllr -navy CAU 3003 Mary S1eger-here's to: Monday nights at 
share living expenses in furnished house. SALE
pea coat. Ple111e call277-04e6 I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA BASKETBALL the office, our mutual lorgettable ex­
FOUND IN E.G. AUDITORIUM AFTER 10 m1nutes from campus. $150 per month BUY FOR A LOVER OR THAT SPECIAL 
TIX, call Greg at 277-5062. periences. Friday night at the Revue (bok 
LOST: ONE BLACK WALLET AT SOPHIE'S CHOICE. ONE PAIR OF includes utilities. Non-smokers please. FRIEND! 
out N.D. males!) and forall the fun times to CORBY'S ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT. If LEATHER GLOVES. CALL 1283 TO NEED MARQUETTE TIXCHRIS 8229 rome! Carol 
Call239·5930 or 291·9644. CADER FEB 5-9 4:30-6PM AT SMC 
FOUND, PlEASE CALL 272-1291. IDENTIFY AND CLAIM. FOUND: ALSO DINING HALL REWARD. fN E.G. AUDITORIUM, ONE RETAINER NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO CARNATIONS . 75 EA. DELIVERED FEB NEED 6 MARQUETTE TIX 8982 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Jane Dowd & lo! IN A YELLOW CASE. CALL 1283 TO 
COLUMBUS, OHIO THIS WEEKEND 14 
Auk, B. P. 's finest. finally come of age. Will LOST: DARK BLUE JACKET CLAIM 
CALL FITZ AT 234-5357 
NEED DePaul baaketball tfck811L Aa youwa11 a year forme? All the liost. Anna THURSDAY (1/28) AT RAFFERTY'S 
many u you'v. got. Tille lan1 Cha..
URGENT: Ride needed to Grand Rapids YOURS WITH BUTTONS. CALL 288-the end of last semester. Call 1695 to CARDIN ZIPPER JACKET. I'VE GOT Found: Calculator 1n Hurley Building at Neil, I do love youl Spookie 
weekend of Feb. 3. Will share $. Please Manhattan Blink, here, ao don1 uk lor Carol. GRANTed we are all human and do Call Tim at 8798. the llorm, but -will o-OOmtllhlng nBke mistakes, FRIENDS usually
!1070. claim. Carmel,get a clue II
reaaonable. Call 87651or delaffiL brgive. f apologize. 
NEED 3 MARQUETTE TICKETS. Please Need many Marquette fix$$ call Sue 284­LOST: One gray and white thin-striped STOLEN: SMC CLASS RING BBA 84 Prayer for Social Concerns today at 4:15 
long sleeve sh1rt wrth a small hole on the GERI CALL 5002 REWARD $50 call Jamie at 1318. 5173 at the CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­All those crazy nights when t cried myself top leh shoulder It was accidentally put in CERNS. All welcome. Over by 5:00.' to sleep someone's laundry by St. Michael's Found: New textbook in room 224 Cus­HOUSEMATE WANTED AS 5TH MAN. Now melodrama never makes me weep,
NEED 3 DEPAUL TIX · GA OR STUD ­
$80/MO. & UTILITIES. CALL 277-4851. HAVE 1 MU STUD-TOM 3180 Laundry ServiCe before Chnstmas. ff you hing. Call Bob Boucher, x8315 to 1dentffy ROOTS,ROCK,REGGAE 'cause I haven't got time lor 
have 11, please return to Jim at X1101. and claim. the pain... Need riders to RICHMOND/D.C. area. 
Section I·N Saturday nigh!The BIG C We NEED KEENAN REVIEW TICK 
FOUND: ONE PEARL NECKLACE AND LOST: A new thermodynamics text in leave 2/9, return 2/12. share usual. call gonefll ........................................................
ETS,WILL PAY $$$. CALL BRENDAN 
2 OTHER NECKLACES IN A JEWELRY room 228 of the Math Computer Building. JEFF 8854. LADIES YOU BLEW IT II Neil O'Fiaherty
3203. 
BOX OUTSIDE OF FARLEY. CALL PAT Please give me back my bookfl1 Call Amy, KELLY TRIPUCKA 1s 19 today ... yes past h1s pnme. 2n-11i11. x7051 BILL LAIMBEER Imagine. this stud is 19 years old and he 
Need 4 DePaul tix(stu. or GA) Pete 1224 
WSND with Gary .bara and Larry has never been kissed ... CORRECTLY I FOUND: A pholog,.ph of two klltena FOUND: a really nice-looking Cross pen FOR SALE Burke on AM 6400. Can you help ? Call6206 NOW and one not too weird Fh. Buddie• wrth somebody's inscription on rt. Please Wanted: 3 GA's for Marquette Please1 now and lrlenda loNv.r. Coll232~17. please oh baby please call Greg at 8284 Family corning from PA Please call Amy DAVE HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY LOVE, Neil, HAPPY B-DAY YOU KOOKALA II 
to Identify. MCAT PREP BOOKS CALL 8197 284-4326 TERRY (GUSH'S FRIEND) JDM Roomie 
The Observer Thursday, February 2, 1984-page 9 

Courtesy Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Ski Team 
The Notre Dame andSaintMary's ski teamsputon a Cup races. For more information, see the story atright. strong performance at last week's Ohio Governor's 
~~\..ENt1~~ 
..~.. 
SAVE $20.-$30. 
8 


Place BOOKSTORE 

Date MONDAY J FEB 5 Time 2:00-4:00 PI MI ., Deposit Required $ NONE 


young men 16-35
SYMBOL ... "OF THE MAN WHO RECEIVES IN GIVING" 

FRANCISCANS 
1/u:Jd ()'lcfe;z, f<~ 
DIRECTOR OF VOCATIONS, FRANCISCANS, TOR 2006 EDGEWATER PARI<WAY SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND 20903 
Please send me the free booklet at no obtigatio'l. ND
Na.me -----------------­
age Address 
AJi;)t! 'IIRT YJJ3>t 

City . State____ Zip____ (Check preference) Priesthood Brotherhood ____ 



Thursday, February 2, 1984.;. page J 0
The Observer 
Rozier took illegal money at Nebraska 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH-Heisman Trophy 
winner Mike Rozier acknowledged 
in an interview published yesterday 
that he received tlnancial help from 
alumni while he played for the Uni­
versity of Nebrasaka. 
The All-American running back, who signed a S3.1 million contract with the Pittsburgh Maulers of the United States Football League, also said that he was encouraged by unnamed associates of his former representative, Mike Trope, and numerous other agents to violate NCAA rules and take money and gifts before completing his senior season at Nebraska. 
In the interview, which appeared in yesterday's Pittsburgh Press, Rozier said that during his college career, Nebraska alumni helped him meet t his financial obligations. He did not name the alumni. 
· "Players at Nebraska get S206 a month," Rozier said. "I had to pay rent on my apartment, which Is S260 a month. I live with my brother so that's S130 apiece. Then, there's the electric bill and the phone bill ... It adds up. I had some people send me money. Some alumni helped out." 
A Nebraska spokesman said that there was no one available to com­ment on Rozier's charges. The NCAA also had no immediate comment. 
"Our policy simply Is not to com­
ment on whether we will look into · 
matters concerning possible viola­
tions of NCAA regulations," David 
Berst, NCAA enforcement director, 
told The Associated Press. Berst said 
schools are allowed to provide 
momhly allowances for athletes 
who choose not to live on campus. 

Who: Graduate Women What: Support Group When: Tuesdays, beginning 
Feb. 7 6:15-7:30pm Whet'e: Wilson Commons Sponsored by Counseling & Psychological Services Center 

An out of print book you cannot locate Try oursearch service! nationally circulated initial cost: $.75 no obligation 500Jo success rate eight weeks 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
1027 E. Wayne noon-6, Tues .-Sun 232-8444 

"WE BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES" JUST BRING IN THEIR AD. 
PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE STORE ONLY 
LIQUOR 
Every Thursday Nite 
10-1 am Late Night Oyster Bar Featuring shrimp, clams and oysters 
A Margaritas $1 
PRICES GOOD THRU FEBRUARY 4, 1984 
' 
We accept student Check with N.D.ID 
WINES 
Gallo Premiums 
4.99
3Liter 
San Paulo etrk Spumante 2.99 Burati Asti . 
Spumante 
4.99
750ml 
Reunite Bianco, Lambrusco, Rosato 
1.99
750ml 
ROSE'S PINA COLADA MIX Just Add Rum 99e25oz 

from 8 to 11 pm 
BEER 
BudweiserLP 7.89 
Kings Cellar 
StrohsLP 7.29 
Vodka 
1.75!. 
7.79

BuschLP 6.99 
Hedvan Hill 
§e~cial Export 8.49 
1.75!. 

Rum 8.99
Old Milwaukee 
Bailey's lri·sh
Rag. or Ughl LP 

Creme
MeisterbrauLP 5.99 
750ml 
10.99 

Hiram Walker 
QUARTS Lite Old Milwaukee  8.79 7.09  Spearmint or Peppermint Schnapps1.0L 4.99 Kings Cellar Tequilla1.75!. 9.99 Apple Barrel Schnapps  
Budweiser HALFBBl Lite HaiiBBL Michelob HAlF BBl  29.99 27.99 36.99  Old StyleHALF BBL Lite QTR BBL  27.99 22.99  

------l 
--------------~----------------­

T0 day__________________T.;.;h;;;.;u~r~sd~a~y,~F~e~br::u::ary:::::2:,:1:98:4:::::-p=a=g=e=ll 
Bloom County 
••• AMP 111€ ARMY HWCOPTER 
WITH ~1WO VNIWT1FIEJ7 M'UICAN ClfllENS ~17 
I'IIRIN€711£ AN'TJIRC11CA INVA­510N IS JVfJT NQ/1 100CHJN<1 LlOWN HER6 IN MIAMI.•. 


Mellish 
0 
z 
/ff:RL-rHEP£'5 1He FIRST om: etltRGINCt NOW ... THE STRAIN AHV HOM~ Of 1H61R ~IlL CUARL.Y VISJBU ON 
1115 FAC£ AS ~ SlOOPS POWN 10 K155 AMUICAN 501!.. ••• 


IN A RELATED ST"~V, 5CllNnsrs
THE TErAS OfPAMMEIIJT 0~ 

AT TH£ VEttlC£0 P/IIHATl CENT£~
EDUCATION RCcEPTf!) A ~ECOMHENP· 

llllV£ biS<OVEBI! 7HIIT TilE HISS/NO
AT/ON FROM tHRisr/AN F"UNI>A • 

tlNK /JETNU/tl A1ES ANI! !'IIIIi IJ
,..,ENrAIIJ rs TII/I T DII~WJNJ 
THEORY OF Ev~LIIT!DN BE BANNED SCHOOl 1UfS. 
t·l 
"Naughty robot! Naughty, naughty robot!" 
The Daily Crossword 
8 V-shaped
ACROSS 31 Deviate 61 Strainer 
rampart
1 Heap from a 65 Courageous 
9 VIm
5 l\t'lakea hit course 67 Old Nick 
10 Wheel tooth
10 Complain 32-Baba 69 Nuncupative 
11 Buddy,
nagglngly 33 Flower 70 Newspaper 
south of
14 Shortly holders notice 
the border 
15 Like a 71 Digression 
12 Showan
certain 37 Poems 72 Luxury fur 
old film
13 Part ofa
16 Heb. measure same wave 74 Horse 
fork
17 Party length 75 Observes 
21 Walton
for men 45 Obstacle 
23 Pagoda
46 Up-(cor-DOWN 18 Commerce nered) 1 Bridgebld 26 Sports 19 Money 47 "Where-2 Division group transfer 
27 City in the 
the snows word 
Ukraine
system of•.." 3 Burden 120 Soft drinks 48 Request 4 Hire 22 Isolated 51 Scolded 5 Tippler 
28 Cheers
24 Weapon 53 Makes tlappy 6 Jeweler's 29 Enthusiasm25 Making contact weight 

30 Exclamation
one's way 59 Macaw 7 Giraffe's 
of acclaim
28 Worship 
60 Scoff cousin 34 Watering 
Berke Breathed 


Dave & Dave 
(OMING UP NUT, FOL6EtJ 
FR.ON{ Llll!t, MIS. OU.EN, IS II~RESTE/) Fill N/Jzt WAR 
ClllfES. 

53 Dicken's 
villain 54 Angry 55 Identifies 56 Banquet 57 Tighten a 
shoelace 58 Turkish 
decree 62 Pa. port 63 Wind 
indicator 64 B.P.O.E. 
word 66 Ger. river 68 Beatty of films 
pace 
35 Dine 

36 Ship: abbr. 
38 Clock face 
39 Ralsond'­
40 Discard 

42 Euphemistic oath 
43 Answerto rollcall 
44 Brings forth lambs 

49 Draft letters 50 Sunflower state 52 Dialects 
Wednesday's Solution 
Campus 
• 
3:30p.m. -ComputerMinicourse, Introduc­tion toJCL, 115 CCMB 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "In situ Radiolysis ESR Studies ofBenzosemiquinones," Dr. Keith Madden, Rad. Lab Conference Theatre 

•4:15 
p.m.-Black Studies Colloquium, "Race Legitimacy and the State: The Case of Brazil," Prof. Michael Mitchell, 105 Law School 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "A K­Theorist's View ofModuli Spaces," Prof. Ruth Char­ney, 226 CCMB 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Industrial Composition, Interindustry Effects and the U.S. Productivity Slowdow," Dr. Edward Wolff, 124 Hayes Healy 

•4:30 
p.m. -Meeting of the Graduate Fellow­ship Prayer Group, Bull House 

•5 
p.m. -Candlemas Day, Blessing of Candles, Procession and Mass, Sacred Heart Church 

•5:30 
p.in. -General Informational Meeting, Management Club for Spring events and those in­terested in being officers next year, 220 Hayes Healy 

•7 
p.m. -Mock Convention Platform Commit­tee Meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Help needed in the North East Neighborhood, Margarita Howard, Center for So­cial Concerns 

•7:30 
p.m. -Auditions for Camelot, Little Theatre, SMC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Rashomon," Washington Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Billy Joel, ACC, $13.50 


TV Tonight 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 
16 Gimme A Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 Automan 34 All Creatures Great and Small 
16 Family Ties 
16 Cheers 
22 Simon and Simon 
28 Masquerade 
34 Mystery 
16 Buffalo Bill 
16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Sneak Previews 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
2/2/84 
All Rights Reserved 




ctamelot 

AUDITIONS Tonight __ 
in Little Theatre Moreau Hall-SMC 7:30pm 
·--------------~----------------------------------,
CHEERS
SEl 
HILL STREET BLUES 

~ Jfo

~B,RR 
Happy Hour 
Reduced Prices untU 11:00 
1 Post Billy doel Party f()r all Concert Goers 
________________________----...&

~--~·~·i·i-·i·i·i·~·~·~·~· ~· i.~·i'i' i' ~,iii·.ii' ii' ~·.iii'ii'ii'.-~··~··ii· ·ii· ·ii·ii·ii·ii·ii··ii·ii·ii·ii·ii.iii.·iii.iii.iii.·ii.·r.···;;.·'iii.-~·-~·-~--~·-~··ii··ii·-ii··;·.,.ii_i.-·iii·.iii.··ii···~ ·1.-~~.;.;.;••••• 
ByJEFF BLUMB  Fordham from establishing any type  Irish each of the last two years. Yet,  
Assistt~nt .\jwrtsEditor  of lead where they could go into to  there was also the chance that Notre  
A win's a win. Last night's 79-59 Notre Dame thrashing of an over-matched Fordham squad counts just the same as Saturday's upset of fifth-ranked Maryland in the win column. Yet, thne is no comparision he­tween the two contests. While Satur­day's game was an action-packed thriller that kept the crowd on the edge of their seats, last night's game gave the crowd about the same excitemt·nt they might g t et by watching paint dry. · Tom Sluhy played his usual fine game ti>r tht· Irish, scoring 21 points on 9 of 19 shooting. But, for the t1rst time since Notre Dame's Jan. 16 game with Lafayette, Sluhy was not the leading scorer for the Irish. That honor went to for­ward Ken Barlow, who has come on of late to he a force both on the hoards and in the scoring column. Barlow paced the Irish attack with his 22 points and seven rebounds. More rt·markahle is the fact that, with his H of I 0 performance from the field and six of eight shooting at the free throw line last night, Barlow now has shot an amazing 13 of IS and 12 of 14 from the floor and line, respectively, in the I;L<;t two games. "Kenny is playing well," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. "He's in the groove now, and is playing with a lot of consistency and a lot of con­fidence."  their stall-type offense. Fordham was also hindert·d by early foul trouble. Yesterday's Results Notre Dame 79, Fordham 59 Fordham (59) M FG-A FT-A R F p Roberson 34 2-8 3-4 3 3 7 McCormick 35 7-9 5-7 2 4 19 Samuels 19 1-3 0-0 3 4 2 Mcintosh 32 2·7 6-6 4 4 10 Franco 14 1-3 2-2 2 5 4 Brooks 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Hobble 27 3-6 2-3 3 4 8 Williams 22 0-2 2-4 1 3 2 ~ones 13 3-4 1·1 1 1 7 Skoko 3 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 200 19-42 21-27 19 29 59 FG Pet .452. FT Pet. .778. Team rebounds -21. Turnovers · 10. Assists · 8 (Mcintosh 5) Technicals-none. Notre Dame (79) M FG-A FT-A R F p Dolan 34 5-6 2-2 9 3 12 Barlow 34 8·10 6-8 7 3 22 Kempton 28 3-5 t2-3 7 4 8 Buchanan 21 0-2 2-2 2 2 2 Sluby 37 9·19 3-6 4 t 3 21 Hicks 4 2-3 0-0 1 2 4 Royal 10 0-0 2-2 3 0 2 Newell 1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Howard 18 1-2 2·3 2 4 4 Bowen 1 0-2 0-0 1 0 0 Pnce 12 1-3 2-2 1 1 4 184 29-53 21-28 37 22 79 FG Pet. -.547 FT Pet. -.750. Team rebounds -37. Turnovers · 13. Assists -14 (Dolan. Sluby, Howard 3). Technicals-none Halftime-Notre Dame 34, Fordham 22. Of­ficials-Tom Rucker. Big Ten, Mike Stockner. Big Ten, Randy Drury, Big Ten. A-107' The Rams somehow managed to pick up seven fouls in the game's first 5:41. "They got out to the lead early and we couldn't seem to scratch back  Dame would get caught after upset­ting Maryland and having to face a tough South Carolina team this Saturday in Columbia. "Everybody thought we'd have a letdown after Maryland," com­mented Phelps. "but I wasn't going to let that happen." "Before you play a team like Notre Dame, you wish that they would have forgotten the last two years," said Penders. "They certainly didn't take us lightly." Notre Dame lead by as much as 14 in the first half, holding comfortable margins of 30-16 and 32-18, before ending up with a 34-22 difference at the intermission. The second half was all but a repeat ofthe first half. The Irish con­tinued their domination, extending their lead to 23 points at 75-52. The final margin was rather insignificant in that it was pretty obvious that Notre Dame was going to win this game from early on. Near game's end, Phelps cleared his bench, sending in all of his reserves hut one. That one, senior Cecil Rucker, was left in his chair by Phelps despite the many chants and boos echoing down from the stu­dent section. Afterwards, a livid Phelps com­plained about the behavior of the crowd, saying, "I will decide when Cecil Rucker plays basketball. After see MEN, page 8  Obserwr/Paul Ken Barlow led all scorers with 22 points as the Irish dominated the Fordham Rams in a 79-59 victory'. Tom Sluby added 21 points, andjim Dolan pulled down a team-high 9 rebounds andscored 12 points. -The Observer  

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


Sports 
Thursday, February 2, 1984 -page 12 

Irish thrash Fordham, 79-59, as boredom thrashes home crowd 
Sophomore forward Don McCor­in," said Rams' coach Tom Penders mick paced the Rams' scoring, afterward. "We were in foul trouble tallying 19 points on seven of nine too early to play the defense we shooting. Tony Mcintosh chipped wanted to. They arc a very difficult 
I 0 points of his own to help the team to catch." losing cause. "It was important that we jumped 
Notre Dame was able to control out to an early lead," says Phelps. the hoards on both ends ofthe court, "Ourdomination early was the k(:y." outrebounding the Rams by a 3 7-21 The revenge factor was there last margin, in addition to preventing night since the Rims had beaten the 


NVA offers seminar on health and fitness 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN dealing with individual stress." Sports Writer Dercngoski feels the three-night seminar is especially important to 
In the coming weeks, the Office of students because it will "create an 
Non-Varsity Athletics will be offer­awareness of the importance of 
ing a seminar on health and a fitness lifetime attitudes toward good 
screening. Students, faculty, and staff health." The cost for the seminar is 
are t:ncouragt·d to attend. three dollars, and interested persons 
The health seminar is sponsored must register in advance by calling by the Ct·ntury Club, an organiza­239-6100. tion dt·vclopcd by NVA to present The Century Club will then spon­seminars and spimsor activities that sor a fitness screening on Thursday, will he of interest to students. Feb. 16. According to Dercngoski, 
The seminar on good health will "After someone has been equipped 

consist of a three night program, with knowledge of health from the beginning Sunday, Feb. S at 7 p.m. in seminar, we want him to be able to the LaFortune Center Classroom on have his health tested." The fitness the lst tloor. Guest speaker Jeff screening will take place at Saint Aaron, director of the Health and Joseph's Hospital, and the Century Lifestyle Center at Memorial Hospi­Club will provide free transporta­tal, will discuss what good health is, tion there and back to anyone wis­and why it is important. hing to attend. 
The second presentation will take Dave Kinson, exercise 

place on Tuesday, Fe h. 7, at the same physiologist at the hospital, will con­time and place. The topic of this ses­duct the screening. It will include a sion will be personal diet, with cardiovascular stress test, a guidelines for good nutrition being flexibility test, and an analysis of the prcsentc:d. Emphasb will he on salt, body's percentage of fat. Blood cholesterol, and fast food. Guest pressure and muscular strength will spt·aker will be Dehra Duskin­also be tested. The screening should Morris, health education coor­take about one hour, and a group dinator at Saint Joseph's Medical feedback session will then take place Centl·r. at 7 p.m. Dcrongoski says this ses­
The t1nal session of the seminar sion "will take the scores from the will hl· the following night, Feb. 8, screening and show how they are again at 7 at LaFortune. Luis Valdes, meaningful in relation to standard from the Counseling & Psychologi­scores and personal goals." cal Servin·s Center here at Notre The screening will cost fifteen 
Dame, will speak on stress. Sally dollars, and the deadline to register Derengoski, coordinator of Recrea­is Feb. 8. For information, call 239­tional Services at NVA, feels this ses­6100. To register, however, you sion will inform students on "what must apply in person at the Office of each person can do in terms of Non·Varsity Athletics in the ACC. 
To go pro? 


Marcus Dupree leaves So. Miss. 
Associated Press 
both the National Football League The pro option was held out for and its new rival, the United States Dupree by Kenneth Fairley, a Hat· HATTIESBURG, Miss. -Marcus Football League. tiesburg businessman who has Dupree, once touted for the Heis­But the NFL emphatically restated emerged as the running back's chief man Trophy but now a two-time uni­its policy on Tuesday against draft­spokesman and may be his next versity dropout, wants to play ing undergraduates in fact, employer-Dupree told USA Today college ball this year. But he's also Dupree won't be e:igihle for the NFL that he may take a job as a construc­listening to overtures from the draft until 19H7, the year after his tion worker at a funeral home Fair­
professional ranks, a close friend class graduates. ley owns. But Fairley also said said yesterday. The llSFL, which signed Herschel Dupree would play for a small­But it's not clear how interested Walker last year after his junior year college tcan1 just to play football 
the professionals are in Dupree, who in college, determined after the out­next fall. still has college eligibility remaining. cry from colleges that followed "He's interested in an NAIA Walker's signing that it would abide school or an NCAA division Ill 
Dupree, who left Oklahoma last by the same rules. The league had no school hel·ause he would he eligible fall and quit the University ofSouth­comment on the Dupree situation to play next season," Fairley ern Mississippi on Tuesday, is except to note that a judge in Los An­said."Thc main thing is he wants to 
blocked by NCAA rules from playing geles had made a tentative ruling play football." football at major colleges until 1985. which may overthrow .the lJSFL Fairley said a professional option He is considered a prime pro eligibility rule as a violation of an­played no role in Dupree's original prospect, a sure No. I draft choice in titrust law. decision hut developments since 
have madt· it a major topic ofdiscus­sion. "He dropped out for personal
Cal Ripken Jr. signs 
reasons and his family's t1nancial problems," Fairley said. "Professional football now may be
contract with Orioles 
the best way to make the money he needs." Associated Press tiona! performance over the past 
Fairley, who would represent two years with an exceptional con· 
Dupree in any negotiations with BALTIMORE -Cal Ripkcn Jr. tract," said General Manager Hank 
professional teams, said, vowed yesterday to retain his en­Peters. "He has certainly "Representatives of several (pro) thusiasm for baseball and his desire demonstrated that he is one of the 
teams had called and reminded us of to improve after signing a four-year top players in the major leagues pending court case~ that might make contract with the Baltimore Orioles today." 
Marcus eligible" for the NFL. worth in excess of $4 million. Attorney Ron Shapiro, who 
If Dupree can't play for a college "No matter what the contract represents 20 of the players on Bal­
this year . and decides against the says, it's not going to affect me on timore's 40-man roster, said Ripken pros, then he might return to South­the field," said the 23-year-old would he paid S I million next 
ern Mississippi to play in 19HS, Fair­shortstop who was named the season. Yearly increments for the ley said. 
American League's Most Valuable remainder of the guaranteed pact 
He said Dupree, 20, would remain Player in 1983. ''I'm still hungry to enable Ripken to bypass first in Hattiesburg for the next few days succeed, and be better than I was baseman Eddie Murray as tht· hig­
but did not want to make a public before." hest paid Oriole. 
statement until he made a decision Ripken. who was eligible for ar­"I want people to think of me as a 
on his future. bitration, reached agreement ballplayer, someone who tries hard 
Dupree drew national attention through the 1987 season after hit­every game, not somebody who his freshman year at Oklahoma. ting .318 for the world champion makes a lot of money," Ripken said. 
gaining 90S yards. lie was heralded Orioles, with 27 home runs and 102 "Money is uncomfortable wh ten you 
before the 1983 season as a leading runs batted in. He led the league have to speak about it. I don't want 
candidate for the Hcisman Trophy with 211 hits, 47 doubles and 121 to downplay the contract, but 
but walked away from Oklahoma af­runs scored. baseball is the main thing. I can't 
ter the Sooners' lost to Texas .28-16 
•.•we. are rewarding Cal's q:cep-stress that enough." 
on Oct. 8. 



