Presidential politics-page 3 

VOl. XIX, NO. 28 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1984 
Senate discusses prices at bookstore, suggests possible alternatives 
By MIKE MILLEN 
money conscious rather than brand 
StuffReporter 
conscious." Feasibilty of the pro· posed student store will also be ex· Senate action against high ami ned. "We will make comparisons bookstore prices was annouced at l·"st 01·..ht's Stud~nt s~nat tl' of wholesaler's (prices) and labor in
a. ,.,.•. , ~ , ~ e mee ng. 
the store," he said, adding "we will
"'lbe fact is, they do sustain a 
s id spn It >r p t B set a cost of goods just over the
profit, " . a . ~ • < a rowne, 
break-even point."
rdering to the Notre Dame-Hammes Bookstore. Browne alluded to a Executive Coordinator Doug Wurth advocated more action.
study nmducted in January by Stu­dent Body President Rob Bertino, "Why waste our time with surveys" then a senator. he said, asking "do we have an offi­
1, j 
1 
l ~ 
l ., 
'Jbe study consisted of 40 ran-cial response as to why we can't go domly chosen bookstore items com-into direct competition (with the paritively priced at seven local bookstore)?" It was pointed out Om­stores. According 10 the survey, "as budsman would handle the surveys, 
so committee members could some products were of varying devote their time to other matters.
quality or not available at several As for direct competition, about
stores, a final list of only 23 items were compiled." which Executive Coordinator Ray 
l'r<Jwn•· Ctlllt"nds "th r Wise also questioned, Browne said
' ~ ~ . e su vey 
. he was not aware of an official ad­
proved that the bookstore charges more." As evidence, 200 sheets of ministrative response, although be college ruled paper, which cost felt chances were low of being allowed to do such.
SI.79 at the bookstore, were found to be less than 90 cents at both G.L. When asked for a location for this store, Browne said "we would have
Perry and Martin's. The University's 
to find a place." Bertino, however,
price of SI.H9 for Crest Toothpaste was seen as being unusually high, as reccomended using a currently un­occupied part of LaFortune in the The Oblrrvrr/C.hahanya PaOl:hal
six of the seven stores ~harged less, basement. "Ibe issue will surface 
Strumming on the steps
with K-Mart asking only St.04. 

"Since the survey was conclusive again in future senate meetings. 
and bead outside to study, play football, or just for health and beauty aids," Browne Director of Food Services William A group ofstudents enjoy some live music on go for a long walk around the lake before the said, "we proposed alternatives." He Hickey asked for the senate's official thesteps ofPangbornyesterday. The beautifulau­snow, orat least before thefirstfrost bits the Notre 
first proposed the bookstore condemnation of the food fights in tumn weather enticed many to drop their books Dame-Saint Mary's campuses. "supply some of the goods at cost or the dining halls last Saturday. Hickey below cost," but "they didn't want said ont• of his managers stated the to do this." Browne said the loss of incident was "one of the worst rt·venue on these items would be things we've ever seen." "We are 
Labor Secretary Donovan named 
t·ompensated for by the markup on dedicated," he said, "and in a sense Notn· Dame paraphenalia. His offairness I'm ao;klng you to put peer st·cond alternative involved the pressure on students." At Hickey's 
in 137-count New York indictment
bookstore "supplying products of a request, the senate unanimously 
lower grade." Browne sai\1 this idea  .passed a meao;ure to officially con­ Associated Press  joined the Reagan Cabinet in 1981,  The investigation involved allega­ 
wa~ rejected because bookstore offi­ demo the food fighting incident in  had been investigated for nearly a  tions that Schiavone overstated thl'  
dais felt Notre Dame students were  the dining hall and issued a formal  WASHINGTON ­ Administration  year by a special prosecutor in 1982.  amount  of work  that )opel  per­ 
"brand nmscious" and would  not  apology to University Food Services  sources  said yesterday that  Labor  formed.  
buy ~ent·ric itt·ms.  and its employees.  Secretary  Raymond  Donovan  has  In two separate 1982 reports on  The lie-detector test on Donovan  
"Since we can't work within the  '!be fiscal policy of student gov- been indicted by a county grand jury  allegations that Donovan, as a con­ was performed at the secretary's re­ 
bookstore, we will work outsidt• of  ernment and the student activities  in New York in connection with a  struction executive, had ties to or­ quest on Sept. I I by joseph Buckley  
it." he stated. A Studt·nt Senate com- board  was  unanimously approved.  subway project by the construction  ganized  crime  figures,  special  of John E.  Reid and Associates of  
mittt•e  hao;  been  formed  and  is  Student Body Treasurer AI Novas re­ company he formerly served as ex­ prosecutor  Leon  Silverman  con­ Chicago.  
looking into the possibility of start- ported available funds of 5247,000.  ecutive vice president.  cluded  there  was  "insufficent  Donovan  described  the  firm  as  
ing some sort of"student store." '!be  He said 20 percent ofthe money will  Six officials of the Schiavone Con­ credible  evidence"  on  which  to  "one of the premier lie-detector ex­ 
store would carry items similar to  go to clubs, with the rest going to  struction Co. ofSecaucus, N.J., were  prosecute the secretary.  perts in the country.  
those of the Notre Dame Bookstore,  the five offical student government  also named in the 137-count indict­ Donovan had testified before the  "I answered during that test all of  
but of a generk quality.  organizations  and  a  contingency  ment, one source said. "lbe source  grand jury for 4% hours on Sept. 24.  the specific questions" raised by the  
At the meeting, Browne said a sur­ fund.  Novao;  reported  "clubs  will  spoke on condition he not be identi­ At that time, he released the results  district attorney and "needless  to  
vt·y was going to be taken as to whe­ have one  more opportunity to ap­ fied.  of a lie-detector test that the secre­ say I was not surprised that I had  
tht·r "students at  Notre Dame  are  peal for money."  Labor  Department  and  White  tary said cleared him ofany involve­ passed it with flying colors," he said  
House spokesmen declined to com­ ment in an alleged scheme ­ before  last Monday.  
ment on the matter.  Donovan joined the Cabinet ­ to mis­ In  his  report,  Buckley  said  
Alfred Stepan dies  The source said Donovan was flying to Houston yesterday to make a series ofspeeches when the indict­ represent the work of a minority subcontractor on the subway proj­ect.  Donovan had denied that he knew about the circumstances of the hiring of)opel or any illegal arrange­ 

'ip~clal to Th~ Obs~rver 
Alfred C. Stepan, a benefactor and trustee emeritus of Notre Dame, died early yesterday in his Winnetka, lllinois home after a lengthy lllnt·ss. He was 75. 
A 1931 alumnus of Notre Dame, Stepan founded the Stepan Chemical Company in Northfield, lllinois. From 1954 to 1959 he wao; a member of the College of Arts and Letters Advi­sory Council and joined the Uni­versity's Associate Board of Lay Trustees In 195H. He was named to the new board when the Uni­versity's governance was re­organized in 1967, and retired from active status in 1979. 
Stepan and his wife, Mary Louise, underwrote the con­struction ofStepan Center, a stu­dent activities building on campus and one of the nation's earliest geodesic domes, in 1962. He was also a principal benefac­tor of the S9.3 million Stepan Chemistry Hall, a research facility dedicated two years ago. Stepan was awarded an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1963. 

Friends may call at the Donnellan-Fitzpatrick-Franklin Funeral Home, 10045 Skokie Blvd., Skokie, between 3 and 9 
p.m. today. Father 'Jbeodore Hes­burgh, University president, will concelebrate the funeral mass at 1 p.m. Wednesday in Faith, Hope and Charity Church, Hill and lin­den Streets, Winnetka. 
ment was handed down. 
"The secretary was notified by telephone during an airport stopover" in Atlanta, and immedi­ately headed back to Washington, this source said. He said the secre­tary planned to meet with his attor­ney, Dean Burch. 
In Biloxi, Miss., traveling with President Reagan, White House dep­uty press secretary Peter Roussel said, "We have not received any in­formation or been informed" about the indictment. 
The grand jury in the Bronx was investigating charges that the Schiavone Co. falsified records in a federally funded subway project in New York. 
Donovan, who was a part-owner as well as executive vice president of construction company before he 
"It is my hope that my appearance today and the presentation of the polygraph results will put an end once and for all to the baseless alle­gations that have unfairly plagued me throughout my public life," Donovan said after emerging from the courthouse. 
The focus of the Bronx grand jury probe was the relationship between the Schiavone Co. and the )opel Construction and Trucking Co. of the Bronx. 
In its work at subway excavations in New York City, Schiavone hired )opel to assist in hauling dirt. Under federal regulations, ten percent of the contract had to go to minority­owned companies. )opel was co­owned by a black Bronx politician and by a reputed organized crime figure. 
ments between the two companies. Buckley also said that Donovan denied any participation in )opel's hiring and denied that Schiavone gave incorrect information about )opel's work or misrepresented it. 
The Schiavone Co. had sought to quash the grand jury investigation, charging that it was polltkally motivated and noting that Bronx District Attorney Mario Merola is a Democrat. But a judge refused the request, leading to Donovan's tes­timony and indictment. 
NBC news reported that the in­dictment alleges one count ofgrand larceny, 125 counts of false docu­ments and 11 counts of false state­ments. Federal authorities were asking Donovan to surrender at 8 
a.m. Tuesday at the Bronx court· house, the network said. 
r 
j

f 
r r l 
! ~ 
r 
r 
,r 
, ' ~ 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
The Observer 


In Brief 
. 

Any transfer studentwho has not been contacted by his or her "campus adopter" should leave his or her name, local address and phone number with Aline Gioffre, in care of student government. -The Obseroer 
Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance met last night in the Haggar College Center. Robert Foldesi, director of per­sonnel at the College, spoke to the board about road pattern changes around LeMans Hall, and ticketing and parking violations, especially during football weekends. Student goycrnment is currently trying to have more space available for visitors during such weekends. Stu­dent officers also discussed plans and dates for Founder's Day, Tues­day, Oct. 9, and Octoberfest, Oct. 11 and 12. Students arc also reminded this is Alcohol Awareness Week at the College. 
-The Obseroer 

Two students were injured when their car crashed into a tree on Saint Mary's main road early Sunday morning. According to witnesses, the passengers, a Notre Dame man and a Saint Mary's student, lost control of their car returning to campus at approximately 2 a.m. The two were believed to have been taken to a local hospital. Security at the College declined to release any infor­mation concerning the incident until today. 
-The Obseroer 
Of Interest 

Holy Cross College's Professor of history, David O'Brien will give a lecture titled "Isaac Hecker as Symbol and Myth" this afternoon at 4 in the Memorial Library Lounge. Isaac Hecker was a 19th century American Catholic priest and theologian who founded the Paulist Fathers in 1858. O'Brien's lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Cen­ter for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism. -The Obseroer 
Crosby, Stills and Nash tickets are available at the LaFortune Record Store on the first floor. They will be sold on a first come, first served basis. Tickets cost 513.50 each. -The Obseroer 
The ElectionTaskForceand the Student Govern­ment Lobby Commission, along with a coalition of special interest groups, will sponsor the first in a series of open forums regarding pertinent election year issues Wednesday, Oct. 3, at noon on the Fieldhouse Mall. This week's topic will concern United States foreign policy in Latin America. Everyone is encouraged to attend and voice their opinion on this issue. ~ The Obseroer 
Nationally syndicated columnist Gary Wills will begin a series offive lectures tonight. Wills, Welsh visiting professor of American studies at Notre Dame, will focus on "Declaring America's Independence in Art" in weekly Tuesday eve­ning sessions at the Center for Continuing Education. The lectures will include a slide show and discussion period. Scheduled for 7:30, the series will open with "The Founding Picture: Smibert's Bermuda Group." A list of suggested readings for the seminar is available. A general reading is William Dunlap's "History ofthe Rise and Progress of the Arts of Design in the United States."-The Obseroer 
"The Relevance of Non-Violence in the World Today" will be the topic ofa panel discussion this evening at 
7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns to commemorate the l15th birthday of Mahatma Gandhi. The CSC, the O'Neill Chair of Educa­tion for justice and the India Association are sponsoring the event. Mr. Manmohan Choudhury, a Gandhian leader from India will be the speaker. The panelists are three international students from Notre Dame: Haider Raza, from Pakistan; Francis Awanya from Uganda; and Alejandro Foxley, from Chile. The moderator is Prof. Denis Goulet, O'Neill professor of justice at Notre Dame. All are welcome to at­tend. -The Obseroer 
Weather 
Refuse to accept winter! Mostly sunny and warmer today. High in up­per 60s. Partly cloudy and warmer tonight with a 20 percent chance of light showers. Low in upper 40s. Partly sunny and cool to­morrow with a 20 percent chance of light morning showers. High in upper 60s. ~AP 


The Observer 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ispublished by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor .............................. Tom Small Design As.sistant ........................Anne Long Layout Staff...................... Margo Kirchner Typesetters .............. Mary Ellen. Tom. Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor ............................... John Heasly Sports Copy Editor ....................... Phil Wolf Viewpoint Layout.................... Dave Grote ND Day Editor ........................ Barb Stevens SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design ................................Susan O'Hara Pbotograpber ............... Chaitanya Pane hal 
-~~------------------------~-------------­
Tuesday, October 2, 1984 -page 2 

The Not Ready for Prime Time Players? 

The Saint Mary's Athletic Department has a little problem with its varsity basketball team, but if the de­partment waits it out, all will blow over and once again, passion's fervor will fizzle. The basketball players will get some kind of coach (word is out one of the Notre Dame varsity basketball players is loojdng to earn "Corby money". He heard how cute Saint Mary's "girls" are when they try to dribble a basketball.). 
The "girls" will still get to play, so what's all the fuss? The College maintains excellence in all areas and pro­viding for healthy team spirit and exercise is in keeping with its ideals. 
All this commotion about leaving monies out of the budget for the team is getting a bit out ofhand. Imagine a coach resiging because of a few minor "oversights" which seem to be technicalities anyway. For instance, the team has three basketballs already and is looking for more. How many does the team need to play anyway? The team got new uniforms this year. One would think that would be sufficient. But no, the wrong uniforms 
came in and the team's up­set. Orange pinafores would work just as well: pinafore pullovers are equally useful for scrimmages and games; are much better for distin­guishing one team from the 

next, and are much cheaper 
than regular uniforms. 
Not to get picky, but the team should be able to af­ford its own socks. There is no need to put that kind of a financial burden on the ath­letic department and in turn the administration. Let's be reasonable. Athletic depart­ments just don't go around paying varsity players to play. 

Now the former coach, Mike Rouse, adds insult to injury by expecting, no, demanding, mind you, that the department budget for a bus driver to chauffeur the team to and from away games. Does he 'think the "Belles" are a real and competitive varsity team that they have to go to the National Catholic Basketball Tournament all the way in Iowa? Besides wanting the team to compete in the tournament, he requested money so the team could return to campus inJanuary, a few days before the beginning of the semester to train for the event. C'mon, this is just supposed to be for fun. Basketball is just a game. 
There are plenty oflocal teams to last a season: Bethel College, Goshen College, and Clay High School. This would eliminate the hassle concerning a bus driver. Had Rouse the sense to be content with this, he would not have had to resign. 
Let's be reasonable. The administration is trying to 
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Inside Tuesday 
maintain a grip on reality in this situation. After all, Saint Mary's is an "all-girls" liberal arts college where sports is just a pastime. It's an edifying experience to see Mary A. Doctor practice hours a day, sacrifice time and studies to play Bethel College ... six times a season. 
It just doesn't make sense for the athletic department to consider the players or the coach in all of this when money is at stake. And the figures add up. Rouse recruited, on his own time, five students to come to Saint Mary's specifically to play basketball for the Col­lege. He translated that into more than $200,000 ofreve­::\ nue for the College but can't understand why the depart­ment will not budget H 000 for recruiting. It adds up in "' my book. These women




:::'\ 
were recruited by Rouse to come to Saint Mary's to be a 

part of the team so they could make many of the same sacrifices as Division I teams with zero benefits. So now, here are five Saint Mary's students who had hoped to be part of a team, who don't even have a coach and who may not have a team. 
® 
The resourceful athletic 

department will think of some way to get a new coach. In fact, the new Athletic Director, JoAnn Nestor could double as a coach, if the Notre Dame player changes his mind. Of course, she would have to get her chauffeur's license to drive the bus, but she wouldn't be doing anything the assistance varsity softball coach has not already done. just trust the department. Afterall, they sprung for the team's shoelaces. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 


UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES ~...,;;;;;;;;,_~WANTSYOUI  
POSITIONS AVAILABLE  
I  Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants Casual Employment Catering Positions  
Apply to: Dolores-North Dining Hall (6176) Jean-South Dining Hall (6147) Pat -Huddle (7157)  

~ 
The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1984-pa::-­
! 
U.S. Supreme Court to judge in Oklahoma gay-rights legislation 
A."'soclated Press denied work for engaging in "public 
homosexual conduct or activity." 

WASHINGTON · The Supreme The law defined that term as Court, studying gay rights for the "advocating, soliciting, imposing, first time since 1967, said yesterday encouraging or promoting public or it will decide whether public school private homosexual activity in a tcacht·rs may be fired for advocating manner that creates a substantial or promoting homosexuality. risk that such conduct will come to 
The court, issuing orders in some the attention of school children or I ,000 kgal disputes as its 1984-85 school employees." term began, agreed to judge the 
validity of an Oklahoma law that The National Gay Task Force chal­allowed school boards to fire teach­lenged the law in a test case against ers for such conduct. the Oklahoma City school board, at­
A kderal appeals court struck tacking the law a.~ written without down the law, ruling that it violates alleging that it had been used against teachers' free-speech rights. any teacher or teacher applicant. 
In other matters, the court: 
-Refused to reinstate the A federal judge ruled in 1982 that attempted-murder conviction of the law was valid, but the lOth ll.S. socialite Claus von Bulow, accused Circuit Court of Appeals voted 2-1 of trying to kill his wife so he could last March 14 to reverse the ruling as inherit S 14 million and marry his ex­it pertained to "advocating, encour­actress lover. Rhode Island aging or promoting" homosexuality. prosecutors still can force von Bulow to stand trial a second time. lbe appeals court cited past Su­
-Lt•h intact a Dade County, Fla., preme Court decisions in saying that program that sets aside some the Constitution's First Amendment county-run construction projects does not permit someone to be pun­for businesses managed by blacks. ished for advocating illegal conduct 'lbt· program had been attacked as a at some indefinite future time. The form of unlawful "reverse discrimi­court said the Oklahoma law would nation" against whkes. allow firings without any showing of 
-Barred ll.S. businesses from school disruptions. answering questionnaires used by Arab nations to carry out their trade In seeking Supreme Court n:view, boycott of Israel. 'Jbe justices left in­school board lawyers argued that tact a federal law that bans busi­the law is capable ofbeing read-and nesses from disclosing, when asked enforced · in a way that would not by the Arabs, whether they have violate free-speech rights and still dealings with Israel. protect school children. 
-Agreed to decide in a case from Nebraska whether states may force But lawyers tor the National Gay motorists to have their photographs Task Force attacked the law as "a appear on driver licenses if that vi­heavy-handed attempt to limit olates their religious beliefs. debate on an important public issue 
·Set the stage for its latest journey by forbidding all public school into the quagmire of obscenity law teachers from speaking out on by agreeing to consider reinstating a homosexuality." wa.~hington state law that includes The Supreme Court has not issued the word "lust" in its definition of a decision in a homosexual rights what may be judged obscene. case since 1967, when it ruled that 
-Let stand the federal govern­aliens found to be homosexual may ment's regulation of the funeral in­be deported as persons "afflicted dustry by refusing to disturb rules with a psychopathic personality." imposed on 22,000 funeral homes 
nationwide two years ago. Numerous gay rights cases have 
In the gay rights case, the in­come before the court since then, validated Oklahoma law stated that a but the justices have consistently teacher could be fired or otherwise dodged them until now. 
Feast of St. Francis 

Thursday, October 4th 
5:15 Mass at Sacred Heart Church 
Fr. Don McNeill, C.S.C. officiating 
6:30 Beggars Banquet 
at Center for Social Concerns 
7:30 movie... 
'Brother Sun, Sister Moon' Center for Social Concerns 

ALL INVITED! 



Contemplating life 
Is this student thinking about the meaning of comfortable in front of the lake by the Grotto. life orplanning his social life for the secondfoot­Even the ducks seemed to be enjoying the weather ball weekend of the year? Either way, be seems yesterday. 
Chinese show off new weaponry 
Associated Press 
Most impressive were the strate­
He then spoke from the rostrumPEKING -China unveiled a 

gic missiles, including two squat 
of Tiananmen Gate, urging thehomemade arsenal of nuclear and 

submarine-launched missiles for 
People's Liberation Army to beconventional weapons, including 

China's first nuclear submarines. 
"alert at all times" and prepare forthree-stage intercontinental ballistic 

Also on view were three medium­
modern warfare.

missiles not shown in public before, 
range CSS-2 ballistic missiles, three 
Defense ha.~ taken low priority inat a lavish national day parade yes­

CSS-3 intermediate-range ballistic 
China's "four modernization" pro­terday. 

missiles, and three CSS-4 intercon­
gram -behind agriculture, industry"It was a very impressive display 

tinental ballistic missiles, painted 
and science and technology -andof equipment," said a Western mili­

red and white and towed in three 
Deng is streamlining the 4.2 million­tary observ~r. "It demonstrates a 

sta~es. 
member People's Liberation Army

pretty good capacity in terms of to purge leftist opponents and raise
standards of manufacturing." With missiles able to hit targets up standards.
Military attaches had their to 8,000 miles away, China, a nu­cameras whirring as ICBMs, an clear power since 1964, counter­
Soldiers, sailors, airmen,Exocet-type missile, an Israeli-like weighs the Soviet llnion. 

paratroopers, militia, armed pollee,tank gun and new artillery filed women medics and cadets marchedthrough Tiananmen Square in a two­Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping, 25 abreast in formations of 14 ranks hour pageant celebrating the 35th the 80-year-old chairman ofboth the each. The 8,000 troops were well­anniversary of the People's Republic party and government military com­drilled and snappy in their new uni­of China. missions, began the nation's first mil­forms. The promised restoration ofNormally, even invited military itary review since 1959 by the rank system was postponed, anddelegations fail to see China's latest inspecting his troops from an open none of the troops wore insignia. 

weaponry. limousine. 
Reagan blasts Democratic policies 
mand. It guarantees deadlock among He said Mondale had inaccurately
Associated Press 
his advisers. When a president is not predicted that inflation would go up President Reagan charged yester­vigorously involved, things just before it went down and that any day that his Democratic challenger don't happen," he said. economic recovery would be 
has a "knee-jerk addiction to tax in­
"In Central America, there are no "modest or anemic." creases," while Walter Mondale talks," Mondale said. "In the Middle Geraldine Ferraro, meanwhile, accused the Republican incumbent East, there is no policy. In Lebanon, criticized the Reagan administra­of offering a "parade of alibis" to ex­there was no protection. And on tion's economic policies, chiding plain the Sept. 20 bombing of the Earth, there is no arms control." Vice President George Bush for put-
ll.S. Embassy annex in Beirut. Reagan focused on the economy, ling out his wallet to illustrate his 
With just five weeks to go until ridiculing his opponent's plan to belief that pocketbook issues arc all Election Day, the rhetoric intensi­
reduce the deficit. that matter to voters. fied in advance ofSunday's presiden­"Some people have labored so '''Ibat spontaneous gesture of sci­tial debate. Both Reagan and long at making government bigger fishness tells us more ahoul the trut· Mondalc planned to spend most of they've developed a knee-jerk addle-character of this administration than the week preparing for their tion to tax increases," the president all their prepaid commercials," the televised confrontation, the first of told the Economic Club ofDetroit as Demonatic vice presidential can­two planned before Nov. 6. he set out on a three-day campaign didatc said at a rally in Akron, Ohio. trip. "And every time their knee "Of course we care ahout money. "I don't doubt that the president's jerks, we ~et kicked." But this is an election, not an auction for peace," Mondale told a rally in · and the ll.S. government is not up for New Brunswick, N.J. "But he has not Without referring to Mondale by sale to the highest bidder." ma.~tercd what he must know to name, Reagan said the policies that Bush als<> ·n lh s h 'd 
.. . · • . 1 e . out , sa1 

command his own government and the Democrat has supported all his Mondale's latest criticism of to lead. political life" resulted in "an ceo-Reagan's meetl'n 'th S . 
. · g WI .OVICt "When the president doesn't nonll!Ji.hangover that we must never Foreign Minister A d . G k 
. ... . , n ret .romy o 
know what he must, he can't com-·ever· suuer through agam. amounted to "more carping." 
Sponsored by Office ofUniversity Ministry 

.;c.. ................................ _., .. I I J I 1"'i , .... ~)t'\h4",.C•C.•t.••••••·'·4·•••·4·•·•·• .. ·••••••••• • • • ~ ~ · 
The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1984-page 4 

Cruise_ship in dry dock capsizes InJuring crew 
Associated Press are raised above the water to be cleaned, painted and repaired, 

NORFOLK, Va. -A cruise ship in Birkhead said. "There was no hint of dry dock with 145 sleeping crew any problem at that time," he said. members aboard capsized onto its Shipyard guards also checked the side in the water yesterday, injuring vessel only minutes before it fell 31, one critically, and briefly trap· over into the water, crushing a ping dozens in cabins turned wooden wall of the dry dock, downside-up, authorities said. Birkhead said. 
"It's just like a nightmare," said "Why it happened we're still Sylvia Ventineglia, a ship purser trying to determine," he said. The whose:; foot was cut by broken glasss. shipyard and Coast Guard are inves­''I'm just glad I'm alive." tigating. 
The 487-foot, Panamanian-Ventineglia, 39, of Manchester, registered Veracruz I had arrived England, said she was· among the 145 just hours before the 3:48 a.m. acci­crew members sleeping in their dent at Norfolk Shipbuilding & berths aboard the ship when it fell. Drydock Corp. for ten days of "I heard a little creaking noise, routine maintenance work before and I thought, 'Oh God, the ship is the winter cruise season, said Bill going over," she said. Birkhead, a lawyer for the shipyard. As a radio, books, magazines and 
Between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. Sun­other items tumbled on top of her, day, the white-hulled ship was sup­she thought, "I'm never going to get ported on wooden blocks in the dry out of here alive," but she managed dock, a platform on which vessels to climb out, she said. 
~~,::::·~:=;::~ L061 5:~.::::: 7e~";~~e~: d~~z;~: D. ! 
t Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK(: \ South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 277-2870) 
The Observer/Sheila Burke 
~;;;;;~;;;;;;:~:~:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::;:::~:=:.=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::li§
Grad school experience 
lriHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.........HIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII"IHIIIIIIHIII~IIIIIIIIIII,

Kara Eberly, right, talks about her experience panel ofgraduates spoke to students about grad in law school as part of Grad School Night at school and what is involved, especially as per· Saint Mary's College last night in Carroll Hall. A tinent to women today. 
.,... •:•~· .........................~
400 escape 
•
•

:~ir Richard}s 
•
Ft. Worth •

• Hairstyling for MEN and WOMEN 
•
•
•

: ... walk-lns welcome ~O·Jr ......
hotel blaze 

• For appointment call 2n-0734 
• 
-.a.--u • 
Associated Press 

: I:-\~\ • 
417 Dixieway North 
npc;I'OI-l • 
FORT WORTH, Texas-More than 

:: South Bend, IN 46637 ULU • 
400 guests, including several who 

• Across from Wendy's •• 
were trapped and screamed for help 
from balconies, were evacuated Sun­

:.............................,
day night after a fire broke out in an 
11th floor closet at a downtown 
hotel, officials said. 
One person suffered smoke in­
halation and was treated at the 
scene. 
The fire, which started just after 
9:30p.m., reached five alarms before 
it was broughth under control by 11 
p.m., Fort Worth Fire Department 
spokesmanJim Noah said. 
Several guests were trapped on 
the top floor of the 12-story hotel at 
Commerce Street and Interstate 30 
after the fire started, some leaning 
over balconies shouting "Help us, 
please help us." 
But Noah said those guests, their 
faces covered with wet towels, were 
later evacuated down the hotel's in­
terior fire escape. 
The fire, which drew scores of 
spectators to the east side hotel, ap­
parently began in a maid's closet, 
and was confined to the top two 
floors, Deputy Fire Chief Don 
Peacock said. 
The cause was under investiga­tion, he said. 
The more than 65 firefighters who 
responded to the fire were ham­
pered by the building's height, Noah 
said. 
Janie Williams ofAustin, who was with her husband on the ninth floor when the fire began, said "nobody seemed to be real panicky. A hotel employee pounded on our door about 9:30 and told us to leave." 
She added that "you couldn't hear the alarms on the top floors. They were muffled. We couldn't hear them until we got down to the third 
floor:" 

Hey Mate! 
JDbe-~-needsyou.The news department Is accepting applications for 
Copy Editor 

For more Information 
contact Dan, Sarah or Anne 
at 239·6313. Applications 
are due Thursday at 5 p.m. 

(~I H.d. 25) :\cro~~ from Martin's 

Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are onlf'minutes from campus 
The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your Roommate Headquarters
/:, --,, ,../) 7-r 
i ~~ . l. (<I{~
. . tl'"~ 
'-'Dirt 12:30-5:30 p.m. 
~ 0~ 
Dial 283-4242 to place 





_&~~ ~ ~\ 
an order 
~I' 0 
) 
Order corsages and wrapped flowers in advance C ~ -~Two days notice requiredforcorsages 
ii........;;;;;.;;.-.-.;uu..rni.................................................................i 
U.S.P'a.taiS«vlct' 
STATEMENT OF OWNE~,~~!!j,~f'.'i~9~'t.~ NT AND CIRCULATION 
1 
I A TITLE OF PUBLICATION 
18. PUBLICATION NO. 2. DATE OF FILING 
The Observer 519 191 214 I oIo oI 9/29/84 
3. FREQUENCY OF ISSUE 
lA. NO. OF ISSUES PUBLISHED 38 ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION ANNUAL! Y PRICE 
~~~~~;lre~~~e M~~~~~a:r!day and home 
14 3 S 30 • 00 
4. COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS OF KNOWN OFFICE OF PUBLICATION (St"et. Cll)l, Count}•. Stilt~ 11M LIP Code) (:Vot prlrmn) 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, St. Joseph County, Indiana 46556 
5. COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS OF THE HEADQUARTERS OF GENERAL BUSINESS OFFICES OF THE PUBLISHER (Notprlnttr/ 
--same as above-­
6. FUll NAMES AND COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS 0~ PUBLISHER. EDITOR, AND MANAGING EDITOR /ThU /lem MUST NOT be bl11nll} 
PUBLISHER /NIIme and Compleu M111ltnll .Addres.s} 
P.O. Box Q 
Students of the Univ. of Notre Dame & Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, IN EDITOR (N11me and Cmnpleu MalllnJl Address} 4 b :J :J b 
Robert H. Vonderheide, 331 Cavanaugh, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
MANAGING EDITOR (N11mt t1rul Complete Mt~lllnt Addus.s) 
• Mark E. Worscheh, 316 Stanford, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
7 OWNER (I/ owned by • c:orportHion. ltr n<~mc 11nd addrt::u must be rt11ttd and 1dro lm~nrdltJtr/y thtrrunder the 1111mer •nd •ddrurcr ofrroc:kltoldfln owni"l or holdlnt I percent or,...,.., Q{ 10111/ amourrl of uaclc Ifnor ownfld b}' 11 corponrtlon, thtt rulii'U!I and Gddrttrur of thfl tnd/vlduol own"" mull btt Ktvttn Ifownftl by a pllrtrref""8hlp or Qfher ""'"CO"POI'tlt~ fkm, /til 1111mr artd llddrt!!:U, u -llu th11t o{ rrh lndlMdwlll murriH ,tw... If lh~ public.· tiOIII.t publl.thcd by11 nortp,offl O'f"IU'IIat/Qn, ltr naml' a11d llddnu mull b• llllt~.J (lt~m muJt IH c:ompl.,ttd.J 
FULL NAME COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS 
"' 
"'' '" 
P n R~v n 
"· nom T" ««< 

8. KNOWN BONDHOLDERS, MORTGAGEES, AND OTHER SECURITY HOLDERS OWNING OR HOLDING 1 PERCENT OR MORE OF TOTAL AMOUNT OF BONOS, MORTGAGES OR OTHER SECURITIES (If ttl~"""'"'""· 1o rllur} 
FULL NAME COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS 
"· 
9. FOR COMPLETION BY NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS AUTHORIZED TO MAIL AT SPECIAL RATI:S /Srctlo" 42).12 DMM ortl~J The purpose, functiOn, end nofiC!rolit ltetut of th11 org1111L1111on end the exemp11teh11 fot F""-'el•ncome tex purPOMI /Ctlrd 011e} 
111 121 
Cl HAS NOT CHANGED DURING D HAS CHANGED DURING (I/cllllnfltd. pubftdrr, mwt aitHtlll uplll1111nmt of 
llU PRECEDING 12 MONTHS PRECEDING 12 MONTHS cMrtfrwithtllillllltrmrrtt) 
10 
AVERAGE NO. COPIES EACH 
EXTENT AND NATURE OF CIRCULATION 
ISSUE D~.,R~Nn\~~~CEOING 
A. TOTAL NO. COPIES (Nrt Prl!rrRull} 
12,000 
B. PAIDCIRCULATION 
1. S.lt~~ throu.gh daleu 1-nd catroers. 11rMt venclo~l •nd counl., Ml81 
9' 950 
2.Mit11Subacnption 
1,650 
C. TOTAL PAID CIRCULATION (Sum of 1081 11nd JOB:!} 
11,600 
D. FREE DISTRIBUTION BY MAIL. CARRIER OR OTHER MEANS SAMPLES, COMPLIMENTARY, AND OTHER FREE COPIES 
250 
E. TOTAL DISTRIBUTION (Sum o{Cand DJ 
11 850 
F. COPIES NOT DISTRIBUTED 
1. Ofhce use, left ov••. una<;COuntlld, ,pa,lad •lt•r pnnt~ne 
150 
-0­
G. TOTAL (Sumo{£, F/llnd 2-rhould "qu111 ""' P'"" ,..,. zfoowrr/n AI 
12 000 
f~'[JiAJu~eis'it0fJE~E~R~1sNPM 
FILING DATE 
12' 325 10' 310 1, 615 11,925 
250 12 175 150 
-o­
12 325 
l1. . ZJ:.TT EDIT(U;J'IS:uR.
r~ 'SIGNATl.U E OiF PUB BU INESS MANAGER, OR OWNER
I certtfy that the statements made by , me above are correct and complete eJ \~ r • \0\-c ~,e-\ 


----------------__,....-----~---------­
The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1984 -page 5 
I 
Government kept open by Congressional bill 
1 
1 
thought that Congress might not
Associated Press 1 meet its target of adjourning for the 
year at the end of the week. ,1 
WASHINGTON · Congress passed "I've got a campaign schedule that 
,
a short-term money hill yesterday to kl-cp government offices open until starts Friday night," said Sen. Ted , Stevens, R-Alaska, the assistant GOP 
,
mid-wn·k while the St.·nate tried to frt.·e itself from an impasse over civil 1
leader.. "Somehow or other sanity has to return to this appropriations ,
rights legislation which held up a 
,
process." lly a voice vote and without ~ long·term spending package. 
Supporters ofa House-passed civil rights measure aimed at negating a
debate, the Senate passed the stop· gap measure that would keep money 
Supreme Court ruling that limited the application of federal anti·
flowing at current levels to most of ~ discrimination laws are fighting to
the government until midnight attach it to the omnibus money bill.
Wednesday. It then went to the White House. 
They have won votes that the so·"It's not much, hut it's all we've called Civil Rights Act of 1984 couldgot," said Majority Leader Howard he considered as an amendment toBaker Jr., R-Tenn. 
the money bill.

The House passed the stopgap In a ruling Feb. 28, the high courtmeasure earlier in the day on a 240· said a law banning sex discrimina·79 vote. 
tion at colleges and other institu­The new fiscal year began at 12:0 l tions receiving federal aid applieda.m. EDT yesterday with most of the only to the program involved andfederal government technically out not to the entire institution. Theof money. Only four of 13 necessary legislation would, in effect, reverseappropriation hills for fiscal l98"i that decision.
have been signed into law. 
Nonetheless, government offices But conservatives opposing the opened a..~ usual yesterday morning, measure say it would go far beyond althou!UJ the hill needed to provide restoring federal laws to their status most agencies with about S476 hil· before the ruling. lion for the entire fiscal year is tied Led by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, up in the Senate. the conservatives continued to 
Last Saturday, tht.· Senate pa..~sed a block passage of the measure by simple two-day extension . of the trying to attach their own amend· --­deadline. The House decided in· ments on such politically volatile 
stead to pass a three-day extension. subjects as court-ordered school 
But even the simple stopgap hill busing and gun control. provided an opportunity for legisla· Even after the stalemate over that tors seeking to attach pet projects to bill is resolved, senators also will be "must" legislation a..~ the 98th trying to attach other pet projects to 
Drinking and Driving
Congress draws to a close. the measure in the usual rush to find Meanwhile, the tangle in the Sen· a piece of "must" legislation to Tom Kellog ofMothers Against Drunk Driving, ate remained unbroken as election· which lawmakers can attach amend· ( MADD ), spoke at Saint Mary's College last night conscious legislators expressed ments that they want to see enacted as part ofthe College's Alcohol Awareness Week. growing discomfort with the before Election Day. Kellogg, a member of the South Bend Police De­




View~_C_J_i_n__t _________ 
ru_esd-ay_, o_ct-ob-er-2,_19-84-p-ag_e 6 
Has the arms control era come to an end? 
In  the  aftermath  of President  Reagan's  
,  White House meeting with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko, the question is  
r  being raised as to whether or not real and sub­ 
r,  stantive arms control talks between the United States and the Soviet Union will actu­ 
r,..  ally materialize. Democrats are charging that the meeting was merely for political purposes  
r  and that the President's record of hard line  
r  rhetoric and confrontation reveals his true in­ 
~  tentions. The GOP, in turn, is hailing the meeting as proof that the U.S. arms build-up  
r  

~ 
Paul Komyatte 
~ 
r free speech 
r 
,r 
has succeeded and that now we are indeed
r
, ready to talk with the Soviets. While the political accusations fly back and forth, however, both sides seem to be missing
~ 
the real issue. The critical question right now
r 
is not which candidate will be more likely to ,.r achieve arms control, but whether or not a comprehensive arms control agreement is
r 
~ even possible in today's technological envi­ronment. After the Soviets walked out ofstra­
r 
tegic arms reduction talks (START) in Geneva last year to protest against new U.S. missile
r 
r deployments in Europe, many experts warned that the era of comprehensive arms control was over.
r 
Indeed, in some respects, the current arms
r 
control debate seems to be returning us to
r 
square one, back to the issues that were
r 
central to the 1972 SALT I agreement and Anti­Ballistic Missile (ABM) treaty. 
r
,. With SALT I, the U.S. agreed to Soviet demands that we restrict Anti-Ballistic Missile 
r 
(ABM) systems in turn for our desire that the
r 
Soviets limit their offensive missile systems. ~ Today, the Soviets want to restrain current 
U.S. defensive'Star Wars' technology, while the
r 
r 
U.S. wants deep cuts in the Soviet arsenal of 
super powerful land based missiles. Neither
r 
side apears too willing to budge in its demands, leading to the current arms control stalemate. 
The current standstill, however, has deeper roots than merely in two opposed un­crompromising viewpoints. As technological advancements have sprouted forth through the years, the resulting new weapons systems are making accurate verification of new arms agreements more elusive and unlikely. Early arms control as developed in SALT I relied upon the counting of each side's missile r launchers. Satellite reconnaissance made it r easy to count these land based silos, bombers, r and submarines used to launch missiles. As technology progressed, arms controllers ~ started counting actual warheads on missiles. r Each side's missile tests were monitored and it 
r 
was accepted that each missile would be 
r 
assumed to contain the.maximum number of warheads it had been tested with. 
This method of verification is now being threatened with the deployment of cruise missiles and mobile land based missiles. Cruise missiles are small and easy to hide, and since all cruise missiles need not be nuclear, it is quite difficult to pinpoint just how many nu­clear cruise missiles each side may have. Mobile missiles are deployed in a manner in which they are shuffled around either above or below ground, making it difficult to moni­tor how many of them are actually deployed. Thus, with the advent of such new weapons systems, the traditional methods of verifica­tion are being undermined. 
This situation is in turn a symptom of an­other historical pattern in arms control in which arms agreements contain loopholes al­lowing them to be subverted with new tech­nology. Since SALT I, both sides got around the intent ofthe treaty by simply adding more warheads to each missile. SALT II dealt with this problem by fixing limits to certain categories ofwarheads, but it nevertheless did not restrict long-term cruise missile deploy­ment. As both the U.S. and the Soviet Union have started cruise missile deployment, we have arrived at the current dilemma in which any arms control agreement will have serious verification problems. 
No sooner have we accrued an arms control agreement and it seems to get subverted by advances in technology. This process is clearly evident today in U.S. talk about defen­sive space based 'Star Wars' technology, sys­tems which would undermine the 1972 ABM treaty, often considered the most important agreement of all by arms control experts. Recent technological advances in beam weap­ons, lasers, and computers have led some scientists to believe that such defensive weap­ons may actually be feasible. The Reagan ad­ministration is planning on spending S2 billion in the coming year on research in these "Star Wars" systems. 
Thus, we are caught in an historical pattern in which meaningful arms control is con­stantly suppressed by the onslaught of new technology. While new cruise missiles and mobile missiles frustrate verification efforts and make comprehensive arms control agree­ments difficult to achieve, even newer space technology threatens to undermine the 1972 ABM treaty which has been the cornerstone of all our arms control efforts to this time. U.S. unwillingness to relinquish its hold on these new advances make it highly unlikely that the Soviets will make cuts in their land based missile force. We seem to be caught in a maze ofspiraling historical forces which make arms control more elusive than ever. 

While some people claim that space tech­nology is the utopian solution to ending the risk of nuclear war, more pragmatic thinkers seem to agree with former Defense Secretary Harold Brown who warned in 1979 that these weapons were a source of deep concern be­cause he always felt that there was "some pos­sibility that some clever briefer could delude a political decision maker into thinking that they were going to work." Certainly, prag­matism tells us that we won't mitigate the cur­rent arms race by starting another one in space. 
What's needed is real and meaningful arms control, yet this may not be possible anymore. After you sift through all the political rhetoric and accusations from both the Democrats and the Republicans on this issue, ask yourself the deeper question of whether either candidate can achieve an arms control agreement. If it appears that the era of comprehensive arms control has indeed come to a halt, then we all need to ask ourselves where it will all end. Ifit is no longer possible to put a cap on the arms race, then just what does lie at the end of the track? 
Paul Komyatte is a senior government majorat Notre Dame. 

The President escapes 
We have just seen why the president's keepers wave off questions, curtail press ses­sions and simply refuse to call press confer­ences. Given a serious matter to talk about, Ronald Reagan will -under questioning -say things silly or false or both. 
The serious matter was the death of Americans in lebanon who were under his care and were not protected, despite ample 
Garry Wills 

outrider 
advance warning that they were targets. The president's first remark was to claim that anyone who remodels a kitchen knows it is hard to get the task finished on time. 
What would we say of his own Secret Ser­vice protectors if they left the president's life exposed, and afterward adopted the kitchen­remodeling life defense? The mere likening of their task to such a casual effort, with its inci-· dental annoyances, would show they had no worthy conception oftheir duty. 
Is the president less duty-bound to protect citizens he has committed to a dangerous sit­uation than are the guards who surround him? Other lives become kitchen appliances to a man who had already lost, prior to this last bombing, 276 American lives in combat areas. When does he begin to realize that a battle zone is not a leaking faucet? 
The president's next comment on the mat­ter was even worse. The reporters were sealed offfrom him, but a college student got to him with a question, and he said that Ameri­can lives were lost because his predecessors of "recent years" were guilty of "destruction ofour intelligence capacity" because they felt that ''spying is somehow dishonest." 
Where does one begin to analyze an asser­tion so breathtakingly false where it is not ir­relevant? Don't blame me, the president said; blame the nameless men who betrayed their high trust before I arrived. His aides went drearily about their customary task after he had slipped their controls -denying as much as they could of the statement, altering the rest, spreading its meaning, hoping to make it meaningless so no one would notice how McCarthyite the meaning ofit is. 
The argument was irrelevant because Reagan said it is the job of intelligence "to know in advance what the target might be." Everyone knew who the target was-not might be -in lebanon. There was no failure ofintelli­gence, just repeated failures ofprotection. 

No one in authority ever acted on the view that "spying is dishonest." Some abuses were criticized, though only partly amended, as the result of a Republican administration's study under Gerald "ford. Some reduction ofthe CIA was made possible -indeed, necessary -by the ending ofthe Vietnam War. 
But the destruction cif the CIA is going for­ward now in ways that did not occur even un­der Richard Nixon. Nixon kept demanding from the CIA and FBI intelligence estimates that reflected his views rather than indepen­dent observation-e.g., that demonstrations in American were being funded from abroad. The agencies resisted that pressure. 
Reagan asserts the same thing Nixon did, with no better evidence, and pays no atten­tion to the agencies on this matter. He has Casey to do that -who has driven out two top analysts already because they would not make their findings reflect a prior policy commit­ment emanatingfrom the White House. Those are the pressures that undermine the indepen­dence, accuracy and efficacy of intelligence units; and they have never been stronger than under a man who, in a cowardly manner, calls his predecessors the betrayers of their trust. 
(c) 1984, Universal Press Syndicate 
r ~ 
Campus comments: How has the new alcohol policy affected your social life? 
r 
Photos by Thorn Bradley 

Being 21 it hasn't affected me too It hasn'1 . I have been off-campus every What alcohol policy? I miss the hall parties, but it's nice 
much_ But we haven't had any weekend_ to just hang out and "get loose" 
wild bashes yet, though. with close friends. 
Joseph J. Bucb Tom Shaughnessy Kim Wittenberg Dave Claybaugh Amy Wetzel 
Senior Class of '84 Sophomore Senior Sophomore 
Economics American Studies Business Electrical Engineering ALPP 

-~­


"ieVVP._O_i_n_t_____________________________________________T_u_e_sd_a~y~,o_c_t_o_be_r_2~,_19~8-4__~P~a~g~e~7 
The significance of the next president 
When nothing is really going on, discussion tends to return to the old standards. Let's face it, the football team has been doing well, no one has really had a chance to flunk a class yet, and even the weather has been boring. So, of late, it has been the trend to criticize what can always bl· criticized: the dining hall. 
It is only in late September that such a furor could be created over such a seemingly insig· nificant thing as a salad bar. Salad bowls, kl·t<:hup, and Italian dressing suddenly 
David Kroeger 
Wednesday's child 
become necessary for the very continuance of 
life itself. 
It always strikes me in a rather amusing mannt"r that my fellow students complain about the lack of salad bowls, silverware, t"tc. Tht' otht"r day I was attacked by a Lyons junior who had no howl for her daily fix ofsalad with blue <.·heesc dressing. Her penny loafers pounded tht' tile with tremendous force as she verbally abused anyont' who appeared cvt"n remotely connected with the dining hall. I was willing to bet that her next step would be to bombard those around her with hand· fuls of olives and croutons, had not some bowls arrived at that vt'ry moment. I was also willing to bet, howevt"r, that this same girl was In part responsible for the very shortage she was complaining about. 
I find it difficult to ft.-el sympathy for those who have no knives when those same people have enough dining hall silverware in their rooms to open a branch extension ofOneida. I feel no pity for those who have no salt for their 
potatoes when I know full well there are at 
least a dozen salt shakers in any given dorm. I 
cannot cry for those who have no fresh fruit 
when there arc several pounds ofbananas hid­
den in their wardrobes. The same goes for 
salad bowls, plates, trays, glasses, and every· 
thing else. 

It is foolhardy to try to complain about such shortages in the dining hall when we our­selves cause them. If each student takes just one fork, then thousands will have to be replaced. If each student takes just one glass, then we will all have to put the ice in our hands and squeeze our fingers tightly to hold in the fruit punch. Ifeach student takes a place setting, the dining hall will have to close down, as Hungarian noodle bake is not exactly a finger food. 
The apparent mystique of owning some­
thing from the dining hall has indirectly 
caused a great deal of problems. It is simply 
impossible to stock a room or an apartment 
with an entire set of Buffalo china and expect 
the mtssmg pieces to spontaneously 
regenerate. Yet, some students seem to think 
that this is the case. 

It would he absolutely ridiculous to search students as they leave the dining hall, or to inspect each dorm room. The solution must come from within the student body. If, indeed, everyone wants to continue such "appropriations," then we have no business complaining. However, the thought of graduating with bits and pieces of dining ball dinnerware in one's hope chest seems just a bit farcical, especially to those of us who are standing at the salad bar without bowls. 
David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArts & Letters and is a regular View­point columnist. 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you encourages all ofits readers to fully an opportunity to respond to tbe expore and voice their opinions. columns, articles and illustrations Simply sendyour letter toP. 0. Box Q printed Ibis newspaper, but through or deliever it to our office. Letters 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you should be no longer than 150 words can address issues wbicb have not in length and guest columns should been raised to your satisfaction in not exceed 600 words. All works must Ibis newspaper. Viewpoint be signed. 
Tired of hearing about the election? Aren't we all? It seems as if the campaign for the Presidency is a never-ending process. Actu· ally, one could say that Walter Mondale has been running for the White House sinceJanu­ary 21, 1981. But only a little over a month is left for Walter. 
Many people by now have probably made up their minds and just tuned out the candi­dates. The speeches are dull, repetitive, and full of rhetoric, most say. Politicians, the cyni· 
Brian McKeon 
reflecting 

cal point out, won't do what they say anyway, so what does it matter? 
Stop for a minute and think about the sig· nificance of this election. Many questions linger about a Reagan second term. First ofall, there's the Supreme Court. At present, the Court is on the verge of a great shakeup, as many ofthe justices are getting old, and on the doorstep ofretirement. The man elected Pres­ident this year may have the chance of nominating three or more justices. Such a chance is rare in American history, and the average voter fails to take notice of its impor­tance. If Reagan is reelected, the new Court could have an impact not seen since the War­ren Court of the 1960's, which effected great social change. Legal experts agree that deci­sions affecting abortion, school prayer, and civil and criminal rights could be watered down or even o"llerturned. 
Secondly, there is the case of the bulging federal deficits. Everyone agrees this is a 
major headache, but what will be done about 
it? Walter Mondale, the Democratic can­
didate, has already put his cards on the table, 
pledging to make some sort ofdent in the defi­
cit. Reagan has remained silent about his 
plans, but has made it dear that he does not 
wish to raise taxes. 
What about relations with the Soviet Union? 
Relations with that superpower stand at a low 
not seen since the Cuban Missile Crisis. Much 
of the credit for that goes to Reagan. Only 
recently has he come out with a conciliatory 
tone, a seemingly blatant political move. Will 
he continue to talk to them, or revert to his 
past ways ofantagonizing them? 
Then there is Central America. lois area 
will be a trouble spot for years to come, espe· 
dally if the U.S. continues its interventionist 
policies. If Reagan gets a second term, will he 
invade Nicaragua? This country will not be the 
pushover that the U.S. found in Grenada. 
The list goes on. This, like every Presiden­tial election, will have great impact on all our futures. Will Reagan be voted back in, forming the proclaimed Republican majority? Or can Mondale make a startling comeback? 
Whatever your preference, try to vote, and make an informed decision. This Sunday, Oc­tober 7, the first of the Reagan-Mondale debates is set to take place. Watch it, and see who has a better grasp on the issues · don't rely on images to make your decision. These debates could decide whether Mondale makes a race of it or gets crushed in a landslide. If Reagan does well, the election is probably over; but if Reagan comes off as an actor in need ofcue cards, than it could be an interesting month. 
Brian McKeon is a senior government majorand is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Cimino's argument doesn't stand up 
Dear Editor: 
As members of the Notre Dame community and ofDillon Hall, we would like to respond to Paul Cimino's column, "Howard Fights Back Against False Image" in the September 25 edi· tion ofThe Observer. 
We agree with Cimino that Howard, as well as any other dorm, does not deserve pred· judiced or unjust reputations. Our purpose is to point out his poor jounalistic techniques in defending his dorm's cause. 
Any reputation Howard may have is not a "Dillon conspiracy" against the dorm. Cimino states, " 'boys" from Dillon are still harping on this subject (homosexuality) to try to get the whole campus to believe that Howard is a gay dorm." A conspiracy such as this is ludicrous. Any reputation any hall has is held in the minds of certain individuals all over campus. Just as Cimino does not wish to be branded with a generalized reputation of his dorm, so the members of Dillon do not appreciate being labeled as a whole. 
Cimino goes on to state that girls attend Howard Hall parties. Wonderful! Obviously girls are going to attend a major party such as this. Cimino wrongly uses football players as a measure ofultimate heterosexuality. He lists a group of football players and says they don't live in Dillon · they live in Howard. What is his point? It appears that the author believes that athletes are a sign of heterosexuality in a dorm. Once again this is an irrelevant point. 
Cimino next claims that Dillon has the quantity and Howard has the quality. The au­thor believes that the quality of an individual is a measure of his athletic prowess. Notre Dame has a strong tradition of an athletic stu· dent body, but academic and social aspects are equally valid judges of quality in individ­uals. 
Hence, Cimino does not further his dorm's cause. He writes the article in such a fashion that it parallels the immature attitudes he wishes to expel from our minds. Cimino would have done better if he had not issued a personal attack on Dillon, but rather spoke out against dorm stereotyping across campus. To enhance further relations between dorms, such articles as Paul Cimino's should not be written, nor read by the Notre Dame campus community. 
MarcHaunz Bill Donnelly 

Post-game food fight shows poor taste 
Dear Editor: 
Wow, what a food fight after Saturday's game! They always said N.D. students have the most spirit. 
I couldn't believe it when someone said, "Shame on you. You're wasting food while there are millions of starving people in the world." I told them to stop bothering us be­cause we gave up our Wednesday lunches every week. 
"!ben they had the nl·rve to '·" •·You kids really made a mess for thl· .!ining hall workers." To this I confidently rd)Ui..l·d, "Wdl they're supposed to clean up after us. 'Ibat's their job, isn't it?" 
We're so neat. We kids really know how to celebrate. I don't know why they say we're not grown up enough to drink beer, do you? 
Otty Berardis Cavanaugh Hall 

The Observer----Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
Editor-In-Chief. . .. Bob Vonderheide Bus1ness Manager . .... Dave Ta1clet Managinq Editor . Mark WmschPh Controller . . Maripal Horne 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the News Ed1tor ........ Sarah Hamilton Advert1s1ng Manager . •Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessartly News Ed1tor .......... Dan McCull0ugh Clfcutat1on Manager . Jeff O'Neill reflect the poliCies of the adm1nistrat1on of e1ther institution. The news is reported as Samt Mary·s Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. .. Kevin Williams accurately and as ObJeCtively as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opmion Sports Ed1tor M1chael Sullivan of a maJOrtty of the Ed1tor1al Board. Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column Viewpomt Editor . . . . Dave Grote present the v1ews of lheH authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Ed1tor . . . ......... Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966
commun1ty. and the free expressiOn of varymg opm1ons on campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor. . Pete Laches IS encouraged. 
--------~--­
Sports Briefs 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -The Observer 
A freshman swimming meetfor men and wo­men will be held Wednesday, October 10, at 7 p.m. Hall reps must turn in a list of entries to Coach Stark the day before the meet at the Rockne Building. Divers must submit a list of dives to Stark before the meet. For more information, call 239-7042.--The Observer 
Abadmintontournamentis being held by NVA. Singles and doubles entries for the double-elimination tournament will be accepted at the NVA office until tomorrow.-The Observer 
A beginners archery clinic will be sponsored by NVA on October 8, 9 and 11 from 4:15p.m. to 5:30p.m. each day. Deadline to register in person at the NVA office is this Friday, Octo­ber 5. -The Observer 
J

Tuesday, October 2, 1984 -page 8 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables at Edwardsburg, Mich. will be sponsored by NVA on Sunday, 
Flanner 

October 7. Rides will be at noon, I :30 p.m., 3 p.m. and 4:30p.m. EST. The charge for transportation and 50-to 60-minute rides is S5. 
continuedfrom page 12 

Times must be reserved in person at the NVA office by tomorrow. ­over from two yards out for the first
The Observfff 
score, and Joe Arnold added the second touchdown on a thirty-yard
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
interception return. Flanner kicker
tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. The Observer 
Brian Wycliff supplied two extra­points and a remarkable fifty-two yard field goal. Flanner upped its slate to 1-I, while Grace dropped to
The ND/SMC Women's Golf Club wm be 
0-2.

meeting tonight at 7 p.m. at Corby Hall. Team practice is cancelled. 
The defenses were the winners inFor more information, call Jane or Father Knoll. -The Observer the Off-Campus/Keenan battle, as they fought to a 0-0 tie. 0-C's record becomes 1-0-1 and Keenan's goes to 0-1-1.
The ND women's soccer team will play host 
Next Sunday's action has Holy
to Wheaton College today at 4:30p.m.-The Observer 
Cross facing off against Stanford at 2 
p.m. 
and Zahm playing Alumni at 1 

p.m. 
in the Leahy division. Rockne division games are St. Ed's 


Steve Beuerlein, quarterback for the Notre Dame against Pangborn at 3 p.m. and Car­football team, will be the guest tonight on "Speaking ofSports" at 10 roll taking on Howard at 2 p.m. 
p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may ask questions or voice opinions In the Parseghian division, Flan­
by calling 239-6400.-The Observer 
ner plays Off-Campus at 1 p.m., and Grace has a 4 p.m. meeting with
see BRIEFS, page 10 

Morrissey and it's Dillon vs. Keenan 
at 3 p.m. 


The Ohserr•er Notre Dame offke. located on the third floor of l.al'ortune Student Center. accepts classified adn:rtisin!!. from 'J a.m. until~ p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's offict·. located on the third floor of Haggar Collegt· Center, accepts classified~ from 12::10 p.m. until :1 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for n<:xt-day das~iifit:ds is ', p.m. All dassifinls must he prepaid, either in p~:rson or hy mail. Charge is I 0 <Tnts per five charat··
Classifieds 
t<:rs erda · 
NOTICES 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training' Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See l TC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
VIDEO DANCE VIDEO DANCE VIDEO DANCE FRIDAY 9-2 CHAUTAOUA FEATURING THE BEST IN DANCE VIDEOS Sponsored by the Progressive Music Club VIDEO DANCE is free for club members, $1 for genera/public 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4062. 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL 1·312-742·1142, EXT. 7316. 
TYPING Jackie Boggs 684-8793 
............................................. 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4062. 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL 1--312·742-1142, EXT. 7316. 
TKO., FRANK THE SLAV WEAR THOSE BLUE JEANS AND STAY OUT OF THE 'BRAIR ON WEEKENDS 
BOOKS BOUGHT SOLD & TRADE. THIS AD IS WORTH X-TRA 10/ DISC. PAN­DORAS BOOKS 937 SO.BEND AVE. 
ALL BUSINESS STUDENTS CAREER FORUM THURS OCT. 4TH 7:00PM 122 HAYES-HEAlY 
HI CLUB MEMBERS: Tailgater for Miami Game planned RSVP by Wed., Oct 3 to one of the following: lisa 1328, Claire 1334. Stacy4619. 
ND-SMC ITALIAN CLUB MEETING AT THE BASEMENT OF REGINA NORTH, SMC, 6:00PM WEDNESDAY OCT. 3 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
Complaint? Critique? OBUD GRIPE NIGHT WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 3 4:30 to 7:00pm South Dining Hall Complaint? Critique? . 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: A GERMAN SHEPARD, BLACK MALE WITH CLIPPED EAR, AMHERST MA TAGS. CALL CARMEN AT 6580. 
LOST: WHITE WINDBREAKER/JACKET W/BLUE & RED COLLAR IN LAFORTUNE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CAU TERRY AT 283­
1991. 
LOST: GOLD RING WITH GARNET STONE. PLEASE CAU CATHY AT 283­12721F FOUND. 

LOST ONE BOTILE OF J.D. ON 
SECOND FLOOR P.W. SAT. NIGHT. IF 
FOUND PLEASE CALL SLUGGO AND 
ASSOCIATES AT 2985 
..................... ............................ 
LOST: Calc 125 Text Book at South 
Dining Hall. If found, please call BRIAN at 
2561. 
WANTED 

............................. 
Need Miami tix. GA and/or Student. $$ Call3274 
NEED RIDE TO INDY FRIDAY,OCT. 5TH. CAU THERESA3888 
PILOTS WANTING TO FORM AN AERO­CLUB CONTACT STEVE AT 4125 
WANTED: Female vocalisVguitarist lor forming band. Looking for the next Chrissie Hynde. Call2651. 
NEED RIDE TO INDY ON FRIDAY OCT. 5TH. CALL THERESA AT 3888. 
Need ride to I.U.Bioomington Oct 5 SMC­Sarah 5180 
NEED SET OF HOCKEY EQUIPMENT (large) Paul4052 
Need ride to FL for Break. Call Karen 272­0616 
PLEASE! I BEG SELL ME EVEN JUST ONE TICKET TO JACKSON CONCERT OCT 12 OR 13, CHICAGO IF YOU CAN OR KNOW ANYONE WHO HAS EX­TRA,CALL AM 4293 $$$ 
Need ride to COLS.,OHIO Oct.5.Call SMC5252 
FOR SALE 

for sale: 2 Air Force GA's and 2 Miami GA's call284-5025 
FOR SALE;TWO COCKATIELS,ONE WHITE,ONE GREY PLUS LARGE CAGE,AND FOOD.$125.00 CALL. 289­4454. ENDAD 
FOR SALE 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET BEST OFFER BY 11 PM WED. CAU 1209 
FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GA's. Will include parking permit for lot next to AERO Bldg. Call TOM 1758. 
FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAs best offer call 1213 
new girl's skates $50 or best offer ,call karen 2720616. 
78 VOLVO WAGON 4-SPEED OVERDAIVE,FUEL-INJECTED,NEW TIAES;54000 MILES GOOD CONDITION.$4200.282-1594. 
TICKETS 

Needed: 2 So. Carolina GAs; Markx1154 
FACT: The Air Force game is coming up soon. FACT: Two people I know are coming up soon. FACT: They don't have tickets, but want to see the game. FACT: I need two tickets. FACT: MynameisMATI.Icarryabadge. CONCLUSION: If you don't call 2577 soon and sell me two GA's to the Air Force game, I'm going 10 do something terrible to your dog. 
I need one GA for MIAMI game. Call Terry, 3305. 
Help! We need MIAMI tix. Call Rob 1784 Kathy4071 
Yo, I need a whole bunch of Air Force tick­ets. I'm talking large quantities. Vast amounts. Lots and lots of 'em. Can we talk? Call the Alien at 2539 
SOUTH CAROLINA TICKETS I need some, that's all. Call the Alien at 2539 
Need 1 stud. tckt. to Air Force. Alan at 3128. 
WILL PAY for 4-6 Penn State GA's. Pat 1155. 
I NEED MIAMI TIX. CAU BRIAN 3677. 
NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL KATHY AT 
2906. 

NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL JOHN AT 2246 OR 1296. 
Need Miami Tix! Will pay big bucks! Call 234-5545. endad 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL DAVE D. AT 
1606. 

Need 5-6 GA's for the Oct 13th Air Force Game. Will Pay in cash. Call Anne 5253 (SMC) 
Needed: 2 So. Carolina GAs; Markx1154 
WANTED! WANTED! WANTED! 
NMd 4 G.A. lick-. to the South carolina footbell g~~me on October 20. Willing to Mil •h•r• ofi.B.M. stock to finance deel. Cell Mark W. et 283--2045 or 239-5313. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR S. CAR. Call 277­3652after6. 
I need 2 AI A FORCE tix call 1589 or 2885 ask for CHAPIN 
I NEED MIAMI & ANY HOME GAME GAS. 272-6306 
My BIG brother used to beat me up. He says he will again unless I get him a stu­dent MIAMI ticket. If you can save me, call Amy at 3700 or 4228. 
Need 5 South Carolina G.A's!l Will pay ANY reasonable or unreasonable price!! Call Chuck at 277-6398 or 239-7673. 
DESPERATE!! DESPERATE!! DESPER­ATE!! FOR 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET!! WILL PAY$$!! CALL LINDA 277-6856 
AIR FORCE TIX need GA's or stud call Tom 
TIX! NEED 2 FOR MIAMI, MANY FOR SO. CAR. ($)HELP($) KEVIN ]3024 
....................... ............................. 
Getting DESPERATE FOR MIAMI TICK­ETS(4311) 
Rich Yuppl• need Miami GAs. Call Tom at 1582. Money, money, money, money. 
Need 5 South Carolina G.A.'s. Will pay ANY reasonable or unreasonable price. Call Chuck at 277-6398 or 239-7673. 
NEED 2 MIAMI TIX-STUD/GA CALL 2852 
NEED MIAMI TIX!! Keith 4216 
2-4 TICKETS NEEDED FOR AIR FORCE OR MIAMI. JOE 2361 
HELP!!! NEED 2 SO.Carolina GA's Please call PAUL: 4006 
I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE S. CAROLINA GAME DESPERATELY !!! $$$$$ Will Pay Well $$$$$ Call Cliff at 4511 NOW! 
Need 1 or 2 Miami Tics. Call Heidi at 232­
0438 
.................... 
PLEASE!! This the first and only chance 
for my parents to see a Notre Dame foot­
ball game (I'm a senior). I need tix for the 
Miami game. Kathleen x3605. Thanks. 
$$$Desperate!! Need 2 GA tix for all homegames and 1 Stu.tix. Call Patty at 5254SMC 
Need 1 Miami GA. Call Janet at 284-4340 
SEND A SCHLEPPER TO THE MIAMI GAME: Will pay big bucks for one lousy ticket. Call Jeff Chou at 3347. SPECIAL BONUS: ONE FREE RIDE ON THE l· TRAIN. 
TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALl STEVEATx1803. 
OH GOD, do I need Miami tickets! Oh, yes I do! I need Miami tickets! Like, I really need Miami tickets! Oh, yes' like never before! Miami tickets! Aaaaaaahhhh! Plee..fulllll Greg'sln..tleble •ppetlte 812532. 
SOUTH CAROLINA Will trade 3 end zone GA's and 2 student tickets for 3 respectable GA's. 4278 
Miami Tickets For Sale 50 yard line or will trade for Penn St. Tickets phone 272­3891. 
Need 4 Miami Tix! GA's. Call Kathy, 3781. 
I need two G.A. tickets to S.C. game desperately. Please call Joanne at 4046. 
HELP!NEEO THREE MIAMI TIX. CALL TOMAT3588 
HELP! I really. really need 3 Miami GA's.lf you've got some, call Eric 3654. 
Need4 SCtix, CALL DAVE 1700 
I HAVE MIAMI TIX!!!!I! I NEED PENN STATE TIX!!! IF YOU CAN' HELP ME IN THIS TRADE CALL DOUG 3859. 
Need 2 MIAMI TIX-Student or G.A. Call Heather 2594 
Need Miami ticket-student or G.A. Call Miriam4174 
$$$ NEED 2 MIAMI STUD. TICKETS CALLKENAT2111 
I AEALL Y NEED 3 TICKETS FOR THE AIR FORCE GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CAl-L SCOTI AT 272-6278. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!!!!! 
I HAVE MIAMI STUDENT TIX-I WILL TRADE FOR PENN STATE G.A. TIX CALL (277-7570) 
NEEDED: 2 MIAMI GAs!! IT'S NOT MY MONEY-SO I DON'T CARE HOW MUCH I SPENO!!! PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 3223 OR 4134 ANYTIME. 
NEED 2 S.C. & 2 PENN GA'S.CALL 284­4216 
Need 3 GA tix for Air Force & 2 for all other home games.Call Ann 234-8855 
IN DIRE NEED OF A MIAMI STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALLSCOTI AT3281. 

PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CAU 234­0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Aide needed to near Harrisburg, PA, over Oct. break. Usual$$. Alan at3128. 
HEYLISTENI Three researchers from the planet Vlimfskik are coming to earth to study the social activities and recreation patterns of human beings. They absolutely must see a Notre Dame football game! However. their spaceship will only be here on No­vembar 17, the day of the PENN STATE game. They need three G.A.s. Please call Mary (their human contact) at 1333 if you want to further the cause of science and inter-species understanding. Vlimfskik thanks you. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ALCOHOL DISCUSSION/LECTURE Dr. Vann Smith LIBRARY AUDITORIUM Tuesday Oct. 2 8:00 PM Take a study break and come join in For more info call Counseling & Psych Services Center 239 7336 
SMC/ND SUMMER PROGRAMS-­LONDON AND ROME--TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTLAND. FRANCE, GER­MANY. AND SWITZERLAND. COURSES IN ART. BUSINESS, EDU­CATION, ENGLISH, ITALIAN. AND HIS­TORY. FIRST MEETING OCT. 3, 7:00 PM, AM 232 MOREAU (ST. MARY'S). SLIDES, PIZZA, ETC. FOR INFO CALL 284-4460 OR 272-3726 (PROF. BLACK). 
SKIDDERS ARE GODS AMONG MERE MORTALS. 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS ORDER CORSAGES AND WRAPPED FLOWERS IN ADVANCE IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER, NY. LEAVING 10/19 AND RETURNING 10/28. CALL FRANK AT 1422. 
Now I guess I'll have to tell 'em That I ain't got no cerebellum Gonna get my Ph.D. I'm a teenage lobotomy 
-The Ramones 

TESS A victim of her own provocative beauty! 
Beware of the chin! 
HEY MACINTOSH USERS! It's still not too late to join the MecCiub. Stop by the computer store and pick up a membership form!! 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED CALL THE YEUOW SUB­MARINE 272-4453 MON-THU 8-11PM FAI-SAT8PM-1AM 
I just want to be pursued! 
TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL STEVE AT x1803. 
FOR SALE Tickets to see MICHAEL JACKSON in Chicago on Saturday. Octo­ber 13. Best offer. Call Jeanne. 4042. 
LARRY BURKE: Hungry? 
OHMYI IT'S THAT CHICK. 
LIZ MILLER 

October Fest Thurs! Get tickets now from Peter. Janice or Katy! 
Theo Mlljon: Do not mi.. the llrat meeting of the Theology Forum on Thursday, October 4 •t 7 pm In 341 O'Sheg. Speekera: Fr. McBrt11n •nd Dr. Weever. 
'Pat O'Shaughnessy is the most gorgeous hunk on campus. If you are reading this, Pat, I stare at your buns in Econ. · 
HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY GARY OD­LAND 
GIRLS!!!! You know that cute A.A. from Flanner? Well, today is his 22nd birthday! Call Gary Odland at 1141 to wish him a happy one! 
Chester. hope Mizzou was a blast! A good time was had by all in Milwaukee. Call me, we'll have lunch. Anne P.S. As for the BM. you know as much as I do. 
Need 2 MIAMI TIX-Student or G.A. Call Heather-2594 
CampusViewSweatshirts!2720616. 

Hurricanes must perish !! Kosar is a dead man!! 
2 MIAMI STUD. TICKETS NEEDED ­KEN2111 
OHHHHHHHHHHHH MY. 

LET'S MAKE A DEAL! I will give you three (3!) student tickets to the P11nn Sblte game. plu• extra for your trouble, if you will give me three (3!) GAs to the P11nn Sblte game. Think about it. Then call Mary at 1333. 
YOU kn-It's Rockln Joe King, donche Beev? Saturday, Oct. 6 •t Step•n (alter the Ml•ml gllme)l Only $2.50 In •clv•nce, or $3.50 •t the door. Reel mualc Is here •t NDI 
The B•nglee •re comlngl The Bengl• •recomlngl 
??????PAUL ?????Monsieur le Capitaine, ecoute:Tiger offense is awesome.Should be a good game none­theless. Pis send tix. 
TOMORROW REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE 7:00 & 9:30PM. $1 SMC CAR­ROLL HALL 
THE THOANBIADS Will the dream come true? 
5Tone, 'Honey· I'm so glad I stayed ILUV YOU-James 
COLLEEN DONNELLY Congratulations for winning the Women's Undergraduate Domer Six Mile' (Oh, and thanx for all the signs yesterday!) Luv, Susan 
Gary. thanks tO< the rose and for taking me to the bars. Happy Birthday, too! 
DEAR MICHELLE; DON'T WORRY, BABE. SOMEDAY WE WILL All BE SOUTHERN. LOVE AND KISSES, CREEPY CREELY 
DEAR TOM DARROW, STICK TO PING PONG ... IT'S THE ONLY THING YOU CAN DO RIGHT. SCOOTS 
The Observer 
Texas gets top spot; Irish ranked sixteenth 
Associated Press 
The Texas longhorns, despite the loss of .26 seniors from last year's I I· I club, have become the fourth team thi.~ sea.mn to claim the No. I ranking In The Associated Press col· lege football poll while Vanderbilt made the Top Twenty for the first time in .26 years. 
Texas' .28·3 victory over Penn State, coupled with No. I Nebraska's 17-9 upset at the hands of Syracuse, raised the Longhorns from their se<:ond-plaet: ranking of a week ago and climaxed a steady rise to the top. Texas, No. 6 in the preseason poll, ha.~ jumped ont· spot in each n·gular­season poll ami became No. I yestcr· day for the first time in three years. 
While Nebra.~ka tumbled from first pla<:c to eighth and Penn State skidded from fourth to lith, Texas received 51 of 60 first-place votes and I, 183 of a possible 1 ,.200 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. The lon­ghorns were followed by Ohio State, Washington, Boston College and Oklahoma. 
"Any way you look at it, you have to feel proud to be No. 1, and we arc," said Texas Coach Fred Akers. 
"I think we deserve it (the No. 1 ranking) as much as anybody I've seen. We are young and we are building, but we're playing with just a terrific effort and the top players arc making the top plays." 
Texas last wa.~ No. 1 midway through the 1981 season -and promptly lost to Arkansas 42-11. 
"It didn't last long," Akers said. "I wUI mention that to the team." 
Ohio State, a 35·22 winner over Minnesota received five first-place votes and 1, I 13 points. Washington received one first-place ballot and 1,008 points and jumped from sixth to third with a 52·7 rout of Miami of Ohio. Boston College, which was idle, inched from fifth to fourth with two firsts and I ,005 points while Oklahoma defeated Kansas State, 24· 6, and rose from seventh to fifth. lbe Sooners received the other first· place vote and 959 points. 
Florida State, which trimmed Temple, 44-27, jumped from ninth place to sixth with 846 points. Brig· ham Young did not play but rose f10m eighth to seventh with 836· points, followed by Nebraska with 
794. Oklahoma State climbed from I Oth to ninth with 75 I points after a 31· 7 triumph over Tulsa and South· ern Methodist went from I I to I Oth with 691 points thanks to a 26· 1 7 victory over Texas Christian. 
The Second Ten comprises Penn State, Georgia Tech, Michigan, Miami, LSU, Notre Dame, UCLA, Auburn, Vanderbilt and Georgia. Syracuse, which lost to Rutgers 19·0 two weeks ago, did not make the Top Twenty despite its upset of Ne· braska. 
Last week's Second Ten was SMU, Georgia, Clemson, Michigan, South· ern California, Miami, UCLA, Geor· gia Tech, Notre Dame and Auburn. 
Clemson, which was No. 2 two weeks ago, dropped out of the Top Twenty by losing to Georgia Tech 28·21, its second straight setback. Southern Cal fell out after losing to LSU 23·3. 
Meanwhile, LSU, 3·0·1, appeared for the first time this season and Van· derbllt, 4-0 for the first time since 1950, made it with a 30·21 victory over Alabama. 

dependable new downtown Cbicqo serrice. 
TO DOWNTOWN CHICAGO  
LEAVE  LEAVE  LEAVE  
OSCEOLA  BIG BEAR  NOTRE  
OFFICE  TOWN & COUNTRY  DAME  
5:30A.M.  5:45A.M.  6:00A.M.  

ARRIVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
MIDWAY  ART  MARSHALL  
AIRPORT  INSTITUTE  FIELD'S  
1:15 A.M.  1:50 A.M.  9:00A.M.  
FROM DOWNTOWN CHICAGO  
LEAVE  LEAVE  

MCDONALD'S MIDWAY 220 N. MICHIGAN AIRPORT 
6:00P.M. 6:45P.M. 
----~ 
ARRIVE ARRIVE NOTRE BIG BEAR DAME TOWN & COUNTRY 
LEAVE SOUTH BEND AIRPORT 
6:15A.M. 

9:00P.M. 9:15P.M. 9:30P.M. 
Ride United Umo to Midway Airport and Downtown Chic:aao 
Same Day aenun 
CAU. YOUR TUVEL AGENT 01 UNITED UMO 
674-6993 

ARRIVE WATER TOWER PLACE 
9:15A.M. 
ARRIVE SOUTH BEND AIRPORT 
1:45 P.M. 
ARRIVE OSCEOLA OFFICE 

lbe Top Twenty collcMe footh.aH teams in Tbe A.s­soclclled Press poll, with first-place votes In paren­thcse!t, this season's records and total points. Point~ Oa.o,ed on 20-19-18-17 et,·. Notre Oame opponents 
arcltuUctzed. 
I Tcxa.'( ~I) 2·0 1.183 2. OhloMate(~) 4·11 1,113 
3. Washington ( I) 3·0 1,008 4. 8oswn College ( J.) 3·0 1,00~ ~-<lklahoma ( I ) 4-11 9W 6. FlorJda State 4-11 846 7. Brigham Youn~ 4-0 8:\6 8. Nebraska 3·1 794 9. Oklahoma State 4·0 7~1 
1 0. So. Mt'thodiM 3·0 691 
II. Pt'1tn J"tate 3·1 f02 
l.l. <icorgl<~ Tech .\-!) 474 13. M lchlgan 3·1 46l 
/4. Miami, Fla. 4-2 382 15. /SU 3·0·1 319 
16. Notre Dame 3-1 206 17. UCLA 3·1 198 IH. Auhurn l·l 179 19 VanderhUt 4·0 134 20. Gt·org.la 2·1 97 
Brown 
continuedfrompage 12 
was a lot of traffic, and I reallycouldn't see the ball before it was too late. When I saw it was already on my shoulder pads."Brown has made his share offresh­man mistakes, but he also has done a good job learning a new position and a new offensive system. "Timmy is adapting pretty well," said receiver coach Mike Stock. "He has been forced into activity prematurely, and he has been 
playing even though he doesn't 
know the whole system totally." 
Stock has been pleased with Brown's perfromance thus far, but he would have rather not had the newcomer thrown into the system 
so abruptly. "Timmy should have had the chance to be worked in a little at a time," commented Stock. "I'm really pleased with the way he has fought against adversity, but I think he is playing too much too early. My phi· 
Iosophy is not to play freshmen that much. I likf: to slide freshmen into the system easy." 
Brown has learned the pass pat· terns quickly, but he still is having a difficult time learning the defenses of Notre Dame's opponents. 
"It wasn't really too complicated to learn the system," said Brown. "It has been difficult learning the defen· sive coverages every week. Each team runs their defensive coverages 
differently and I've had a hard time picking that up." 
Brown's biggest asset as a receiver is his speed, although he still hasn't had the oppportunity to really use it. 
His speed is evident from his per­sonal best of 46.9 seconds for 400 meters. 
"Because of my speed I can get free a little easier," comments Brown. "That way I don't have to work on my patterns as much. If I use my speed I can blow by a 
defender. The coaches keep telling me that they are going to send me deep, but they haven't yet. I'm just waiting to go deep." 
Now that Brown has picked up the basics of the Notre Dame of· fense, he now has the chore oflearn· 
Tuesday, October 2, 1984 -page 9 
Volleyball team meets Bowling Green tonight 
ByERIC SCHEUERMANN "Bowling Green is a vastly im· Sports Writer proved team over last year," says Irish head coach Art lambert. "They 
After two straight losses, the took Central Michigan to four games Notre Dame volleyball team will try just like we did, so it should be a to get back on the winning track pretty even match-up." tonight as it takes on Bowling Green at 7 p.m. in the ACC Arena. Although the Irish have been 
The Irish will be facing the Fal· struggling up to this point with a 4-6 cons for the first time in Notre record, a few team members have Dame's short volleyball history, and performed very well. it appears as though the battle will prove to be a hard-fought one. Senior hitter Josie Maternowski 
has been far and away the most con· ing the finer points of the system, sistent player on the team. She leads which includes the improvement of the team with a .229 spiking his blocking techniques. percentage and 62 digs. She also has 
"He needs to concentrate on the totalled 79 kills. specifics of his game," comments Freshman hitter Kathleen Morin Stock. "He knows the basic fun· has been a very pleasant surprise for 
the Irish. She has a .199 spiking

dementals and assignments; he now needs to smooth and iron out the percentage and eighteen service minor points ofhis game. aces. Sophomore Karen Sapp has
"He ha.~ really improved his block· ing since coming to Notre Dame," rebounded from a rough start to continued Stock. "Blocking was one total 74 kills, second on the team. phase of his game that he really Junior Tracy Bennington also has needed to work on coming out of helped the Irish greatly at the net, leading the team in blocks. 
high school." 

With an average of 12 yards per '•reception, however, the Notre With four games in the next five Dame coaches may have a little pa· days, this will be a very important 
ticnce with Brown. week for lambert and his team. 
....:;:==..:..:..:=.::.:~:::..:..:;--------,;,;.:;=~:.:...:==:::.:...:~.:.::.=;,;,;;;.;;.:.:..:.:.._
Tenni·s 
continuedfrom page 12 

that they get out and practice," said Petro. "It's difficult to play against those types of people when your practice time is as limited as ours is." 
In doubles, the part of the team which possesses the main question mark for the Irish this far, Notre Dame's showing was highlighted by a strong showing by Panther and senior co-captain laura lee. The Panther/lee team made it to the 
semi-final  round  after  winning  a  
first-round  match  by  default,  a  
second-round  match  over  the  

Northwestern team of Tina Oechsle and Kristin laux, 1-6,6-1,6-3, and a third-round match by a tally of 6-3. 
6-3 over Tennessee's Chris Nagel and Celestine Kelly. 
In the semi-final action, however, the two Irish players were stopped by the winner of the singles action, Kathryn Bumstead and Elizabeth Moorman ofVanderbilt, 6·1, 6-1. 
"Our doubles were outstanding in some matches and not so outstand· ing in other matches," said Petro, who says she would like to see more aggressiveness on the part of the Irish in doubles, as well as in singles. 
"They (the Irish players) have to develop some consistency," said Petro. "They have to keep going after it all the time and not get lazy or lay back. 
"Had she (Panther) played a little bit more of an aggressive game 
STUDENTS: Are you sure you want to miss this? 
YOUNG ADULTS 
and 

ALCOHOL/SUBSTANCE ABUSE 
Discussion with Dr. VannA. Smith 
Clinical Neuropsychologist at Parkside Lodge, Mundelein, Illinois 
Tuesday, October 2 at 8 p.m. Library Auditorium 
SPONSORED BY: University of Notre Dame Counseling & Psychological Services Center 
44Take a study break and come listen,, 
against Kelly Blyse, she would have beaten her, but she lost in a dose match." Overall, Petro, who guides a team with only two scholarships and no assistants, was fairly pleased with 
her team's outing. The weekend helped point out areas where the Irish are in need of improvement or 
help. However, Petro explained that no changes in the lineup will occur due to the weekend outing. 
"I think the tournament gave us a chance to play more tennis (and) gave us a chance to realize what we: need to work on, especially against good competition," said Petro. "It gives us a little insight into what kind ofpractice we need to do." 
The Irish will use this week to warm up for the Irish Invitational, which will be played at Notre Dame next weekend
Spartan coach I·s 
IInprovtng 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -Michigan State basketball Coach Jud Heathcote, who suffered a heart at· tack last week, is in satisfactory con· dition and improving, the university's director of sports medicine said yesterday. 
Dr. David Hough said Heathcote's recovery after last lbursday's attack is "right on target." 
Heathcote, 57, was expected to be out of the coronary care unit of lansing's St. lawrence Hospital within the next two days and released from the hospital in "another week or so," Hough said. 
He said Heathcote probably would be able to resume some ofhis head coaching duties in six to eight weeks. 
Michigan State's first basketball game is scheduled for Nov. 24 against Canisius in Buffalo, N.Y. 'Jbe Spartans' first Big Ten game is against Ohio State onjan. 3. 
Heathcote became Michigan State's head coach in April 1976 after five seasons as head coach at the University of Montana. He led the Spartans to the NCAA champion· ship in 1979. 


The Observer Tuesday, October 2, 1984 -page 10 

Major league teams prepared for tonight's baseball playoff games 
National League 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -San Diego Padres Manager Dick Williams has a plan he hopes will take some pressure off the commissioner's office. 
"We're going to try to take the decision ofwhat to do with that Sun­day game here (during the World Se­ries) out of the commissioner's hands," Williams said. 
Ifthe Cubs win the be!H-of-five Na­tional League Championship Series, beginning here today, the World Se­ries will start in the American League to avoid weekday games in lightless Wrigley Field. 
The three games on Friday, Satur­day and Sunday would be played in Chicago -with a 2:45 CDT start on Sunday, more than an hour later than the I:25 CDT start of the playoff games. 
Ifthe Padres win, the World Series begins in San Diego and moves to the AL city over the weekend. 
"We'll just put the weekend games in the American League, and we'll host the first two in San Diego," Williams said. 
Pitching in the playoffopener will be right-hander Rick Sutcliffe, I6-I, for Chicago and right-hander Eric Show, 15-9, for San Diego. 
The Cubs, who last won the NL pennant in I945, and the Padres are the only two teams in the league that have not been to the playoffs since I969, when the current division for­mat was adopted. 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Union and league of­ficials negotiated by telephone yes­terday, without the help of new 
Commissioner Peter Ueberroth, to try to avert a strike by major league umpires on the eve of baseball's postseason playoffs. 
Ueberroth reported for his first day on the job and said he would not interfere. He vowed the playoffs would go on regardless, with "somebody out there to call the game," be they amateurs, minor league or regular umpires. 
The best-of-five playoffs start today in both the American and Na­tional Leagues. 
Telephone negotiations were being conducted yesterday by Richie Phillips, attorney for the umpires' union, and the league presidents, Bobby Brown of the AL and Chub Feeney ofthe NL. 
Calls to Phillips' home and office in Philadelphia were not returned and Brown and Feeney, at the playoff sites, were unavailable for comment. 
Ueberroth, who was president of the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee, succeeded Bowie Kuhn as baseball's boss and said he would not enter into the negotiations. 
Need LSU Tix Call collect eves. 504·291·0642  

TYPING Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing Call Chris at: 234-8997  


Manager Jim Frey, in his first 

season with the club, guided the 
Cubs to the NL east title with a 
record of96-65; the Padres won the 
West with a mark of92-70. The two 
teams split the season series 6-6. 
After Sutcliffe, Frey will go with 

Steve Trout, the only left-bander on 
the starting staff, and right-hander 
Dennis Eckersley. He has not named 
a fourth starter. 
Williams will start left-bander 

Mark Thurmond in Game Two, then 
right-hander Ed Whitson. Game 
Four starter could be Tim Lollar. He 
is expected to be ready although he 
missed his final start ofthe season on 
Sunday in Atlanta with a stiff 
shoulder. 
Show is 6-I lifetime against the Cubs, his only loss coming this year to Sutcliffe. 
American League 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -There are plenty of impressive numbers being tossed around in anticipation of tonight's opening game of the Amer­ican League Championship Series between the Detroit Tigers and the Kansas City Royals. 
The Tigers were 6-0 at Royals Stadium this year. Kansas City has reached the playoffs five of the past nine seasons. Detroit got off to the fastest start in major-league history and wound up with baseball's best record. The Royals finished hotter than any team. 
What does it all mean? 

"When this starts, none of that matters," Kansas City second baseman Frank White said yesterday as the teams went through workouts here. 
What does matter? 
"Everybody knows that Willie Wilson ignites the Royals and that George Brett is the power guy," said Jack Morris, I9-Il, Detroit's Game One starter. "That's nothing new." 
"Willie Wilson is going to dictate a lot of what happens," Detroit Manager Sparky Anderson said. "And George always seems to pop in there somewhere." 
Bud Black, who will start tonight for Kansas City, is making a more general approach. 
"They have a well-balanced lineup," Black, I7-I2, said of a Tiger team that led the majors in home runs and runs scored. "They have power, they have speed and they can hit for average." 
The best-of-five series offers a marked contrast in teams. 
Detroit roared to a 35-5 start and coasted before winning the Ameri­can league East title on Sept. I8. Kansas City began the season with­out Wilson, who was serving a suspension for cocaine use, and Brett, who had undergone knee sur­gery, and had to scrap before win­ning the weaker American League West on Sept. 28. 
"Nobody expected us to be here," Brett said. "Not until there were two weeks left to go." 
Negotiations underway 
Umpires threaten to strike tonight 
"We have presidents of both Although Ueberroth insisted leagues and it's their responsibility," there still wasn't a strike since a he said. "The commissioner's office game had not yet been played, Paul 
is not involved at all." Runge, vice president of the Major 
Reminded that the playoffs were League Umpires Association, said just a day away, Ueberroth said: from his home in El Cajon, Calif., "More often than not, negotiations "It's definite. We've instructed the with both parties in a labor dispute umpires of the American and Na­will go down to the wire. tional Leagues to go home. 
"Obviously, umpires are going to 

"I don't think there's a whole lot work the games, but how that'll be 
ofchance to work the playoffs or the done is really up to Bobby Brown 
Series unless (the leagues) do acom­and Chub Feeney. It could be 
plete turnaround. I don't think amateur umpires, could be minor 
anybody in their right mind likes a league umpires. There'll be some­
strike," Runge said. "I think we've body out there to call the game." 
been forced into a strike." 
APPhoto 

Detroit Tigers fan Robert Fuller displays a pair of the most­coveted tickets in the country right now, American League playoff tickets. Fuller's tickets are for obstructed view seats, but he says he doesn't care. · 
Briefs 

continuedfrom page 8 
Fencing novices are invited to participate in the novice fencing program. If interested, report to the fencing gym in the ACC (above gate 4) tomorrow night at 7:30p.m., dressed for action. For more information, call 239-5585.-The Observer 
The ND Skateboard Club will be meeting tom~rrow night at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Ifunable to attend, call Bob at 277-3877.-The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting tomorrow night at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. For more information, call Timo at 287-8264.-The Observer 
The ND Water Polo Club will play host to its annual fall tournament this weekend. Notre Dame will take on the University of Cincinnati at 7 p.m. Friday, Kenyon College at 10 a.m. Saturday and Ohio State University at I p.m. Saturday. Indiana Uni­versity also will participate in the tournament. Admission is free. ­
The Observer 

The ND Ultimate Frisbee Club will have practice tomorrow and Friday at 4: I 5 p.m. Players are to meet in front of Stepan Center. For more information, call 283-I 588. -The Observer 
The Novice Women's Crew Club wm be meeting tonight at 8:30 p.m. in LaFortune. Members should bring insurance forms and dues if they have not yet turned them in. -The Observer 
NO CMUAN BAND 
CAN MAKE YOU THIS OFFER. 
Ifyou're a musician who's serious about performing, you should take a serious look at the Army. 
Army bands offer you an average of 40 performances a month. In every~ thing from concerts to parades. 
Army bands also offer you a 

The Army has bands performing in Japan, Hawaii, Europe and all across America. 
And Army bands offer you the chance to play with good musicians. Just to qualify, you have to be able to sight~ read music you've neVer seen before and 
lt's a genuine, right~now, imme~ diate opportunity. 
Compare it to your civilian offers. Then write: Army Opportunities, PO. Box 7715, Clifton, NJ 07015. 
ARMY BAND. 


~~~C3l~-----------------------------------------T·u·e-sd_a_y_,_o_c_to_b_e_r_2_,_1_98•4----p-ag•e---ll 

Wednesday and

NEED A JOB? *
* 
Thursday Nights ... 

*
* 
S.A.B. needs 

*
* 
: Roger Moore in
POSTER HANGERS 

* 'OCTOPUSSY' 
..

Must hove financial aid approval **: 
APPLY between 2:30-4:00 : 7:00 * 9:30 * 12:00 at Student Activities Board : . . Offices-2nd floor La Fortune J!-Engmeermg Aud. $1.50 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
rATTH/5 POINT, IT U/ON'T .ctA/r MATTER ANYIAJAY. 7HUCONOMY5 
ROARINGAHM!), 7HI3 5/.EAZc /551/f3 15 /J£AO, ANO 'rVt/RE tiJIY l\ 01/T FRONTIN TH6 POt.L5,. 
(-C..} ' 



The Far Side 


Berke Breathed 

01/1? OWN f?EPOffTf:R, POT KERNS, Wll5 SPOTYCfJ 6Y HIINTtf?S 115 SHIE Wl?flf'PtP 1/f' II filM f?tPOfiT ON ''U/W: THt fi?IS6e6-CI/TCH/N6 61?/ZZt.Y"WITH 11£ S£NnNCe, ·uFe 
W!TffOf/T f,I/W WOIJU? 





The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

34 Potatoes or 61 Corner 10 -goose1 Plentiful catch 62 Atmosphere (gannet)5 Circle or bear 37 Canonical hour 63 Mallet 11 Port in Algeria10 Chimney stuff 64 Equal: Fr. 
12 Norse god 14 Powerful mite 65 Auxiliary verb 13 Extremist15 City in Portugal 39 Hesitatory 

66 Lift one's spirit

sounds 21 Liquid
67 Count (on)

16 Church 40 Norse gods measure: abbr. calendar 41 Housing units 
23 Lasso17 Word of action 44 Social 25 Non·member at 18 Pup and Sibley engagement the club 19 Animal's 45 Far: pre!. DOWN 26 Movie star ofresting place 46 Take a bus Declaim the 40s 

20 Becoming 47 Type of bed irrationally 27 One way to tie visible 49 Containers 2 Particular the knot 
50 Prong on 3 Van 22 Chink silverware 4 Adorn 28 Last 24 Dobbin's dinner 51 Take 29 Lena or Marilyn 25 Make headway 54 Change the 5 Clothing sizes 30 Mex. fiber 26 Contaminate character of 6 Baking places 31 Combine 29 Dance of Oahu 58 Thickening 7 Protracted 32 Plumed bird 30 Take to court agent. 8 Buchwald 35 Obeys 33 Opposite of 59 Change and 9 Mischievous 36 Important 
fragrant correct kids 38 Divest 
"Bear! Bear!" 
42 Numismatic 52 Fr. psycho· term therapist 43 Spinning wheel 53 Heal 
rod 54 Hindu deity 48 Miscellany 55 Plead with 49 Southerner 
56 Actual 50 Principle 57 Squirming 51 Bedouin 
60-de mer 

Monday's Solution 

Campus 
•12· 
1p.m.-Kellogg Seminar, "Unemployment& Economic Tensions in Rebuilding Democracy ­Thoughts About Chile," Prof. Rene Cortazar, ND, Room 131 Declo. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Applications of Transient Response Techniques to Study Catalytic Reac· tions," Prof. Alex Bell, University of California, Berkeley, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 


•3:30 ·4:30p.m.-Computer Minicourse,JCL, Second Session, CCMB. 
•3:30 
· 4:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Macintosh, First Session, Room I04 CCMB, Call Betty ( 239·5604) to Register. 

•4 
p.m.-Field Hockey, ND Women vs. Michigan State, Alumni Field. 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Isaac Hecker As Symbol and Myth," Prof. David O'Brien, College of Holy Cross, Memorial Library Lounge. 

•4:30p.m.-Biology
Seminar, "The Evolution of Experimental Prostate Cancer," Dr. Morris Pollard, ND, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium . 

•6:30 
p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Room 144 Regina Hall. 

•7 
p.m. -Volleyball, ND Women vs. Bowling Green, ACC Arena. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -Film, "Dial M for Murder," Engi· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Cultural Arts Commission. 

•7:30 
p.m. -SeminarI Lecture, Anniversary of Gandhi's Birth, M. Choudharg & Prof. D. Goulet, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Dept. of Economics & International Student Organization, Free. •7:30p.m.-CCEAnnuaiFacultySeminarSeries, "The Founding Picture: Smibert's Bermuda Group," Garry Wills, Visiting Professor of Ameri· can Studies, CCE Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Tuesday Night FUm Series, "From Here to Eternity," Annen berg Auditorium. 

•7:30p.m.-Meeting,LadiesofNotre 
Dame, New· comer and Membership Tea, Penthouse oflibrary. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Young Adults & Substance Abuse," Dr. Vann Smith , Staff Psychologist, 


· Parkside Lodge, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Counseling & Psychological Services Center, Free. 
•8 
p.m. -Lecture With Slide Presentation, "Archaeology and the History of West African Sculpture," Prof. Frank Willett, llniversity of Glas· gow, Scotland, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "First Steps Toward a History of Reading," Prof. Robert Darnton, Princeton Univer· sity, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 



© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
~­


--------------------·-----------------------­
Tuesday, October 2, 1984 -page 12 
Field hockey team succeeds in tri-meet during weekend 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI team's lack of scoring in Friday's defense." Sports Writer game. Lindenfeld mentioned several of "We should have won the first her players as having a good game 
This past weekend was a success­game," Lindenfeld said. "We had a against Dayton. She was especially ful one for the Notre Dame field total of 28 shots on goal and three of pleased with the play of DiGiacomo hockey team, which picked up its them hit the post. We did everything and Sommer. 
first win ofthe 1984 season. but score." "Melissa and Corinne were 
At the tri-meet played on Alumni The Irish team helped ease Lin­definitely our standouts in the Field, the Irish evened their season denfeld's frustration by thrashing second game," the Irish coach said. record at 1-1-1 by tying their first Dayton the next day, 7-1. The list of However, Lindenfeld still saw an 
game and soundly winning their players scoring in Saturday's game area that needed improvement. second. read like the team roster. "We haven't been scoring off cor­
In its first match Friday, the Notre Leading Notre Dame's scoring ner shots," she said. "Our corner­Dame team outplayed Eastern Mic­was Corinne DiGiacomo with three shot execution needs to be worked higan yet could only manage a 2-2 goals and one assist, followed by on." tie. In their second game, again the Melissa Sommer with two goals and Not to sound too critical, Linden­Irish outplayed their opponents, but two assists, and Bisignano with one feld was quick to sum up her feelings this time they romped to a 7-1 win goal and one assist. about the weekend, saying, "We over Dayton. Regina Degnan also had one goal played brilliantly." 
In the Eastern Michigan game, and one assist and Benet DeBerry Lindenfeld and the Notre Dame Beth Bisignano and Molly McCabe rounded out the team's scoring with field hockey team won't have long to each had one goal for Notre Dame. an assist. savor their victory, however. They However, the real story of the first As could be expected, Coach Lin­put their 1-1-1 season record on the match was Notre Dame's failure to denfeld had much praise for her line today against Michigan State at 4 take advantage of its scoring oppor­team's performance Saturday. p.m. on Alumni field. tunities. Out of 28 shots on goal, the "We played great," Lindenfeld After today's game, the Irish travel Irish generated only two goals. said, "We used the width ofthe field, to games at Goshen College 
First-year head coach Jill Linden­made good use of the circle, and Thursday and Western Michigan feld said she was frustrated with the passed well to get around the Friday. 
Tim Brown 
Rookie accepts starting position 
ByJOE BRUNETTI receiver last year," commented ping passes that I shouldn't be doing The Observcr/Chaitanya PanchaJ Sports Writer Brown. "I expected to be recruited and haven't done before," said 
Melissa Sommer and her Irish teammates bad a successful as a receiver coming out of high Brown. "I think I just need to settle weekend, as Notre Dame won a game and tted one in its own trl­For most freshmen at a big-time school because ofmy weight. I don't down a bit." meet. Mark S. Pankowski bas details of the games in his story at college football school the first year weigh enough to play back in col­"On the first one I knew that if a right. is a learning experience with most lege." caught it I could score. I guess I got a 
action being seen from the sidelines After catching five passes in his little excited and I tried to run with and occasional spot duty coming in first three games as a college player, the ball before I caught it," said games in which the outcome has he grabbed five balls in his debut Brown. "On the second one there
Women's tennis team 
long been decided. However, for start against the Tigers to raise his Brown's first dropped pass is the 
Notre Dame split end Tim Brown season total to ten receptions for typical example ofa receiver getring that is not the case. 120 yards. However, he also still has too excited to catch the ball and
gains much experience 
The freshman from Dallas, Tex.. the freshman jitters which resulted then forgetting to do the task at By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL Sussie Panther advance to the fourth has seen considerable action already in two dropped passes against Mis­hand: catch the football. Sports Writer round before losing to Kelly Blyse of this year, including a start against souri. 
highly touted Northwestern, 7-5, 6-Missouri last week, brought on by in­"I've been doing things like drop-see BROWN, page 9 
The Notre Dame women's tennis 4. En route to her meeting with juries to regular starters joe Howard team had a successful trip this Blyse, Panther knocked off Maureen and Alvin Miller. weekend, as the Irish were able to Harney ofSouthern Illinois, 6-0, 6-4, "Coach Faust told me that I could gain some much-needed Division I Tennessee's Angy Kreis, 7-5,6-4 and be the fourth receiver coming in this experience and realize any weaknes­jaime Plumber ofKentucky, 6-4,6-2. year," said Brown, "so I really wasn't ses they had in the Northwestern In­Notre Dame's second seed in expecting to play as much as I am. vitational held in Evanston, Ill. team play, junior Mary Colligan, I'm really pleased with the playing 
"There were some good matches played tough but also was overcome time I am getting. I don't care how that were good wins and there were in the end by a Northwestern starter, much time I get as long as I'm some matches that I thought we 6-3, 2-6,6-3. Irish freshman Michelle playing." should have won," said Irish head Dasso likewise lost in the first round Seeing regular duty for a freshman coach Sharon Petro. "But overall, but was able to rebound slightly and is difficult enough just trying to when you take a look at the whole make it to the semi-finals of the con­learn a college system, but Brown 
team effort, I think we did fairly well solation round. also has had the task of learning a when you consider the type of com­"The Northwestern people play a new positon as well. The 1 70­petition that was there." very hard baseline game and you can pounder played running back 
The tournament, which do that when you get out and throughout his high school career at developed matches by picking the practice for the number of hours Woodrow Wilson High School while opponents at random from a field of ammassing more than 4,000 all­64 entries in singles and 32 in purpose yards. doubles, saw Notre Dame junior see TENNIS, page 9 "Coach Faust recruited me as a 
Still undefeated 
Sorin crushes St. Ed's in interhall 
By BRIAN McCARTIIY throughout the game. five yarder in the third quarter, as Sports Writer In the second Rockne division Stanford slid by Zahm, 3-0. Stan­contest, Carroll earned its first vic­ford's record now stands at 1-0-1, 
The second week of men's inter­tory of the season by downing and Zahm fell to 1-1. hall football ended Sunday with only Pangborn, 3-0. Both defenses played Morrissey, fresh from a twenty­three teams remaining undefeated well, as neither team was able to nine point offensive explosion a and untied. One of those teams, mount a serious drive. Carroll's week earlier, was hoping to Sorin, posted its second straight im­score was a twenty-five yard Kevin overcome Dillon in their Parseghian pressive Rockne division victory, an Corbley field goal that followed an division match. However, Dillon's 18-0 pounding ofSt. Ed's. errant Pangborn punt snap which defense remained unscored-upon, 
The two defenses dominated the gave Carroll the ball on the eight as they shut out Morrissey, 16-0. Dil­first half, which ended without a yard line. Carroll evened its record lon's offensive firepower was pro­score. However, Sorin broke loose to 1-1 while Pangborn fell to 0-1-1. vided by Scotty Bentivenga on a 
in the second half, scoring three Holy Cross opened its season on a ten-yard run and Stosh Marcyk on a touchdowns -two on passes from winning note, as it downed ten-yard reception. quarterback Tim Laboe. Cavanaugh, 7-0. Holy Cross quarter­After being shut out last week, the 
lhe first touchdown was a five­back joe Casper scored the winning Flanner offense let loose, as they yard toss to Mike Scotty and the touchdown on a ten-yard naked cruised to a 17-3 victory over Grace. second was a forty-yard strike to Jim reverse. Flanner fullback Larry Diedrick dove Folstrom. Sorin's other points came In other Leahy division action, 
see FLANNER, page 8
on an eight yard dash by tailback Stanford's Dan O'Donnell booted his Sean Garrett, who ran impressively second field goal ofthe year, a thirty­



