Lucky Charms -page 2 

VOL XVIII, NO. 111 the independent ~!Udent new~paper ~t-r\·ing notrt dame ami ~aint man·., TUESDAY, MARCH 13, 1984 


Candidates battle for best finish in today's 'Super Tuesday' race 
Associated Press Mondale, the former front-runner now struggling against collapse, is 
Democratic presidential rivals hoping he can stop Hart in one or Walter Mondale and Gary Hart more states on "Super Tuesday." stumped the South yesterday, Hart has run up successive vic­seeking undecided voters the day tories in New l;lampshire, Maine, before the delegate-rich round of Vermont and Wyoming, and hopes primaries and caucuses on "Super the nine primaries and caucuses will Tuesday." demonstrate his campaign of "new 
Dark-horse contenders John idea~" has nationwide appeal. Glenn, George McGovern and Jesse Polls point to close races in all Jackson made their last appeals too three southern states. Surveys in but polls and party leaders indicated Florida, Alabama and Massachusetts the race was between Mondale and also indicated more than I 0 percent Hart in most if not all of the nine of the voters in each state have not states where Democratic presiden­yet made up theirminds. tial contests are on the schedule. Glenn,Jackson and McGovern did 
Mondale, hoping for a revival after poorly in all the polls, and were four straight losses to Hart, attacked faced with what seemed like a fight the Colorado senator at stop after for survival. McGovern says he will campaign stop through Alabama, withdraw if he doesn't place t1rst or Florida and Georgia: "don't he second in Massachusetts. Glenn ha~ impressed by people who make an been campaigning non-stop in the appearance on the right side at the South since New Hampshire. last minute." Outside the Jefferson County
Using a backdrop ofearly era space and military• tod~y. more than one-fourth the amount needed to 
Hart canceled a last-minute trip to courthouse in Birmingham, Ala., he 
rockets, Democraticpresidential bopeful,jobn Glenn, win the nomination at the national con11ention. 
Massachusetts after polls showed he said, "Don't take all this business 
brought his campaign to north Alabama last week as While Walter Mondale and Gary Hart struggleforfirst 
holds a good lead there. He also is about momentum and a big stam­
be prepared for todc~v·s "Super Tuesd~y" primaries place, some of the less popular candidates will be 
likely to win in Rhode Island. pede that seems to be going on. I
throughout the country•. 511 delegates will be at stake fighting for suroi11al. 
Like Mondale, Hart scheduled believe my views are the ones that eight stops across the three south­will prevail." ern states holding primaries. He said McGovern told a crowd in Boston Mondale is beholden to special in­he would get the first or second terests, and added, "many of those place finish he is after in Massachu­

Job placement to remain the same 
special interests inside and outside setts, and appealed to his audience 
the Democratic Party have opposed to vote according to their con­By LAUREEN WOLFE graduates in mathematics are decrease in job openings. He gave as my candidacy." sciences. News Staff wanted by 22 percent of the com­example, "207 companies that There are 5 1 1 delegates at stake Jackson, meanwhile, spoke from 
panies listed, 21 percent want physi­wanted business majors last year; today, more than one-fourth the to­the late Martin Luther King Jr.'s old 
Notre Dame students should not cal science students, and 1 7 percent now in 1983-1984, 193 companies tal needed to win nomination at the pulpit and accused Hart and expect startling differences in job ·are looking for liberal arts majors. want business majors." However, national convention. Besides the Mondale of "trying to pick the fruit placement this year compared to The remaining 27 percent of the students chances of getting a job five primaries, Washington state, of trees they did not plant." last year, according to Kitty Arnold, companies want candidates who may be more difficult than the statis­Oklahoma, Nevada and Hawaii and He also spoke by phone with for­director of Career and Placement specialize in agribusiness, animal tics given in the Changing Times ar­American Samoa are having mer Arkansas Gov. Orval Faubus, services. science, home economics, jour­ticle. The statistics only cover I 01 caucuses. Results of a write-in who once opposed school 
However. Arnold says, "the total nalism and communications, in­companies and do not include how primary for Americans abroad also desegregation but gave Jackson "a number of interviews exceed last dustrial and manufacuring many students need the jobs. will be released today. strong letter ofsupport." year's interviews." There were more technology, logistics and procure­than I 0,000 interviews scheduled as ment, nuclear medicine technology, compared to last year's 9,300. nursing and health care administra­

Lebanon President Gemayel calls 
The statistics, released in a survey tion. conducted by Changing Times Paul Plawin, research editor of magazine, showed some bright spots Changing Times, said of the 1983­

for end to fighting at Swiss talks 
for job seekers. A hundred and one 84 job placement issue, "there has companies reported they were been a recovery in the economy. but Associated Press reconciliation conference, the militiamen traded mortar and rocket looking for certain candidates to fill the job openings still lag behind." He opposing factions took sharply con­fire in Beirut yesterday, and Gen. their openings. The article said 65 recommended college students be LAUSANNE, Switzerland trasting starting positions yesterday Paul X. Kelley, the US. Marine Corps percent of the companies were well educated and realize there are Lebanon's President Amin Gemayel in political reform proposals. commandant, visited American looking for electrical and aerospace more students than job openings. yesterday appealed to the leaders of A working paper drafted by the troops still in Lebanon. engineers. 51 percent want com­Plawin said the companies surveyed his country's warring factions for an rightwing Christian Lebanese Front Police said the shelling ignited puterscience graduates. Accounting in February's issue of Changing end to nine years of 'insane" war, Coalition -envisaging a Swiss-style several fires, and firemen had grads are sought by 48 percent, and Times, will carefully choose among and set out goals for their peace talks federal system for Lebanon -was trouble reaching the blazes because 43 percent need business, market­the many college students because that would bring a cease-fire and promptly rejected by a key opposi­ofthe fighting. Casualty figures were ing. and economics graduates. ofthe lag in the job market. new government. tion leader, former Prime Minister not immediately available. 
Continuing down the scale, Arnold has also noticed the slight Addressing the eight pro-Rashid Karami. Rain storms slowed the ftghting in ;overnment and opposition groups The Sunni Moslem, a leader of the Beirut for a second day yesterday. 1t the opening of Lebanon's peace opposition National Salvation Front, But Moslem militiaman exchanged talks in a Lausanne hotel, Gemayel said his coalition would "not agree intermittent rocket, mortar and listed four principal goals for the to any solution that would eventual­machine-gun fire with Lebanese meeting: ly divide Lebanon." army troops and Christian irregulars 
Senior Fellow nominations 

opened again by committee 

-"An immediate end to the state Protected by sand-bagged check­along the "green line" that divides 
of war with a firm commitment and points, bulletproof screens, rolls of Moslem west Beirut from the Chris­By MARK WORSCHEH today and tomorrow in the obligation regarding an immediate, barbed wire and hundreds of police, tian east side. Neu•s Editor LaFortune Student Center and in stable. total and definite cease-tire. the conference delegates and two The "Voice of Lebanon" radio sta­
both dining halls during lunch and -"Confirmation ofa common un­observers, from Syria and Saudi tion, which is controlled by the 
Nominations ti>r Senior Fellow dinner. derstanding position. and steps Arabia. met at the Beau Rivage Hotel rightist Christian Phalange Party, have been reopened because "the Approximately 90 nominations toward uniting and liberating in this Lake Geneva resort. said t1ve shells fell during the after­responses received were not in­were submitted ro the committee Lebanon. The start initially was scheduled noon in the suburb of Jisr ei-Pacha dicative of the the entire senior la~t week, 60 for Harold Augustine, -"Facilitation of under~:tanding for late morning, but was postponed east of the capital and injured four class," said Mike James, one of the the father of a junior at the Univer-on reform proposals. on all levels because of the delayed arrival of the teen-agers. Three people also were chairmen of the Senior Fellow Com­. sity. Augustine, a 1959 graduate of and issues required by Lebanon's in­Syrian observer, Abdui-Halim Kbad­hurt when shells hit south ofthe city mittee. Notre Dame, gained campus fame terests through the evolution of the dam, the foreign :ninister, who was in Haddath. 
"I don't feel the response we when he declared,"A wet campus is systems. just promoted to the post of ftrst After dark, however, heavy shell­received is going to reflect what the a happy campus," in the "Campus -"Formation of a government of vice president in a government ing was reported in three Christian senior class wants to say about Comments" section ofThe Obseroer salvation and national unitythat will shuffle by Syrian President Hafez As­neighborhoods adjacent to the giving this honor to someone in the on jan. 20. assume the weight and the respon­sad. It was not immediately clear "green line" -Ashrafieh. Furn el­Notre Dame community," he said "I think Augustine is a sep_arate sibilities required by the gravity and whether Kbaddam arrived before Chebbak and Ein-Rumaneh-and in last night. dangers ofthe present situation." the conference began. Hazmieh, a Christian community 
Nominations will be accepted see FELLOW, page 4 Before the start of the national In Lebanon, soldiers and southeast ofthe capital. 


r-----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 



·In Brie£ 
Saint Mary's runoff elections yesterday had 
till" following results, according to Election Commissioner Ann Marie Kollman. In the Holy Cross runoff, Anne McCarthy (prt·sident) and Theresa Hardy (vice president), won against Linda Cascio and Kathleen Juckniess. In Regina Hall, Mary Lally (president) and Lenore Massa (vice president), came out on top against Alison Krause and Mary Fisher. Kollman said turnout was low and she said overall she is "surprised at the lack ofattemion to elec· lions this year." -The Observer 
Larry "Bud" Melman, the short, ever-ebullient Brooklynite who has promoted "toa~t on a stick," run through the halls of Rockefeller Center in a hear suit and offered hot towels to passengers at the New York Port Authority Bus Terminal on the "Late Night with David Letterman" tclevison program, has lost his job-not his joh with the NBC show, hut his $6,000 a year part-time job with New York !Iuman Resources Administration. According to a spokt·sman for the agency, Melman, whose real name is Calvert DeForest, was kt go because he made too much money from his regular appearanct·s on the show. lkForest who worked 40 years as a file clt-rk ti>r a New Jersey drug company, was discovered by the Lt·ttt·rman staff aftt·r he starrt·d in a New York University film called ''The King of Discast·." -AP 
The Notre Dame Club of Washington, D.C. is plan· ning a "Super Tuesday" of their own on the date Democratic presidential candidates will be watching voting results in several statt· primaries and caucuses. Officers of the club have asked Notre Dame law professor John Gilligan, former governor of Ohio and newly appointt·d public policy assistant to Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore M. llesburgh, C.S.C., to moderate a discussion ofcon· temporary politics by Charles Manatt and Frank J. Fahrenkopf, Jr. Manatt is Democratic National Committee chairman and the father of Notre Dame freshman Timothy. Fahrenkopfis Republican Nation· al CommitttT d1airman and the father of Notre Dame freshman AI· lison. The regular luncheon meetin~ofthe club hegins at noon today in tht· Federal Room ofthe Capital Hilton Hotel.-The Observer 

Of Interest 
Open auditionsli>r Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre's produl"lion ofGodspeff continue today at~ p.m. in Washington Hall. -The Obsen•er 
"Firebreaks," the game in which players attt·mpt to resolve international crisis scenarios, will be played tonight at : in the Center for Social Concerns. Participants will be fan·d with conflicts in the Middle East and will have to propose policies to copt· with the crisis. -The Obsen•er 
Professor of agriculture and resource 
economics at the University of Calili>rnia at Berkeley, Alain de Janvry. will give a lecture entitled "Social Disarticulation in Latin Anwrican History" tonight at H in the Hayes-Healy auditorium. The lecture is sponsornl by Notre Dame's lielen Kellogg Institute -The Ohsert•er 
AsSOCiate profeSSOr ofhistoryat Hunter Col· kge of tht· City University of New York, Robert Seltzer, will give a lccturt· t•ntitkd "Jewish Nationhood: Theological and Historical Considerations" today at H:OO p.m. in the Library Lounge. Seltzer, who holds dt·grees in history and sociology from Washington, Yale, and Columbia universities, is associate editor ofTheEncyclopedia of Religion. His kcture is sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Theology as one ofits Crown·Minow Leclllres. -The Obsen,er 

Weather 
I 
Itcan only get better.Cloudy and not as cold today with a high in the mid 50s. Clearing tonight with the low in the upper 20s to low 50s. Partly sunny tomorrow with the high in the low to mid ·tOs. -AP 
The Observer 

The Ob•erver (I S~ 'W'I l· tOOO) " puh)i.,hc.·d Mom.J..a} through l·riday o.uul on home: foothall ~;uurd.ly~. c:xtxpt dunn)( c.·xam and vac.·ation pc.:riotb. The Observer i' puhlbhnl hy lht· 'lud~nl">f thc.· l 'nin·r~ity of ~nlrc.· Damc: amJ ·~aull Mary·~ Collt:~t· ~uh~c.:ription~ may he: pun. hJ!'Ic.·d for Sl-; pc.·r }Tar ( t.t c; pt:r 'c.·mt·,tc.·r} h)' wrillnf!( The Observer, 
P.O llox 1}, Notn·l>am~. Indiana ·th~~h 

The Observer i• a mt·mhc:r ofThe As­sociat~d Pr~ss. All rt:produc.:tion nght\ arc.· rc.·servc.·d. 
Today's issue was producc:d by: 
Production Consultant ..................... Stt'vc: DeSIR" Editor. . ....... Chris llowkr f)(•siR11 Assistaiii...................John Menndl l.aj'out.\"taff.................. Sharon MaMarkerl T)'{Jesel/er....... .....J~nnifer lligou Neu•s Editor... . . ......... Dan McCullough Copy Editor.... .. . .........T~ss Guarino .;jwrts CopJ• Editor ...........Jane lkaly Nf) Dar Editor................... Melinda Moore .\MC Day Editor............ Maggie O'Connell l'boloRrttfJber... .. . ...... Lev Chapelsky 
-
Tuesday, March 13, 1984 -page 2 




Lucky Charms' leprechaun battles 

' 

Cap'n Crunch for ND cereal crown 
By RICH INGRASSIA 
News Staff 
The time is 4:30 p.m. Students file in to their respective dining halls and are not surprised by the caliber of the evening meal. 
They respond methodically to several months of similar conditioning and pick up three to six glasses of soda or milk and in disappointment, many proceed to the salad bar. 
But this meal is destined to be different. This time there is an uncharacteristic hum from a point behind the salad bar. A throng of students have amassed at the cereal table, to patronize a single, inconspicuous transparent container. Inside the container is Lucky Charms. 
By the end of the evening, 20 to 30 bags of Lucky Charms will have been eaten. And this not only occurs at dinner but in slightly lower intensity at lunchtime and, ofcourse, at breakfast. 
The introduction of Lucky Charms at the North and South dining halls has met with monumental success. A full container at peak times will last on the average a total oftwo minutes as students fight to fill their howls. 
The fact the cereal is so popular, particularly during dinner, further supports the notion of the continuing effort of students to complement the sometimes less enjoyable hot entrees. 
Lucky Charms was made available to students through several requests forwarded to the dining hall managers. John Gerrity, South Dining Hall manager, elaborates on the process through which these innova­tions come about. 
"The suggestions go to the menu committee, who evaluate the possibility ofgetting the item, through cost research and availibility data." 
This suggestion route to expressing·personal views on dining hall policy and food selection does not see as much action as is expected or hoped for. Gerrity, as well as the other administrators of Food Services pride themselves on their responses to student suggestions. They feel it was a factor in receiving the Ivy Award ti>r university food services this year. The phenomenal demand for Lucky Charms, a reminder of the flurry over Cap'n Crunch last year, is likely to continue, and this will be a major factor in considering it as a mainstay in cereal selection. And many students have expressed their wishes that it does. 
However, a Lucky Charms week is at the moment on­ly remotely being considered. But in view of. the fact that Lucky. the cereal's cartoon cohart is a Ieprachaun, his appearance at Notre Dame could very well he in· evitable. As the great demand continues, we could meet the man behind the myth, and be hearing that mystical song, "Pink hearts, yellow moons, orange stars, green clovers, and blue diamonds ... and purple horseshoes!" 
The students seem extremely enthusiastic about the cereal. The executives of Food Services are also excited. As far as costs go, the more we like it, the more 
:Senior : Portrait Sign-ups : for next year's 
• DOME will be all week
•
• in both dining halls 

• Save money by signing up to • • have your picture taken this ••• spring ••
.,............................. 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT Tues. March 13 


cm:tas sweene.v..'s 
featuring Sherri Woods 
.:----~-.
-~'-­
1 I' ) 

. .. ). 
\r(' 
t( 

This is not a misprint 
lO~TACOBAR 
Sun.-Thurs. 9pm-close 
Late Night Happy Hour 
Sun. -Thurs. 1Opm • close
139 W. Jlllc:IUaley Ave. N~Uawaka, lndlaaa 46545 $1.00 MARGARITAS 
2 for 1 BARDRINKS 
(five minute• &om campue) 
economical it is for them to make it available to us. 
The literal response from students ranges from com· ments on appearance to "Why now?" "I'd just like to know when they put those purple horseshoes in there," remarked one student. Another commented, "I often wonder about the ratio of marshmallows to the regular stuff. What is that stuffanyway, leftover Alpha Bits?" For questions of this sort, it would be best to refer any cor­respondences to the Quaker Oats company in Pennsyl· vania. As for "Why now?", why not now? How long will be answered by us, and the imminent demand. In any case, the whole thing goes to show that the Food Service office at Notre Dame does listen to comments and complaints. In some ways, they too understand the difficulty in facing a comparison to Mom's cooking here on campus, but they are trying their best. 
Laches 
Sophomore Stan Ochs enjoys a bowl of Lucky Charms cereal at the South Dining Hall. The hreakfas, cereal, which features red hearts, yellow moons and blue tliamonds, is seeing a rise in populari~y around campus late(y . 

The Observer Tuesday, March 13, 1984 -page 3 

The Observer/Lev Cbapelsky 
dent affairs, listens during last night's Campus Life Commission meeting. 

Some files on Lennon classified 
Associated Pn:ss Jonathan Wiener, who petitioned old, but without specific declara­
for the files for a book he is writing tions of the type of material excised LOS ANGELES-A federal judge, on Lennon, won access to 26 pounds it would be impossible to know if responding to an author's request to of FBI and Immigration and the claims are legitimate. see all government files on ex-Beatle Naturalization Service files under John Lennon, ordered a government FOI laws, but filed suit after realizing "In this case, what we are trying to 
official Monday to explain privately many paragraphs and some whole do is find out whyJohn Lennon was why some of the material on the pages had been deleted. under surveillance, the dates of the slain rock star is being kept clas­surveillance and where it took sified. His American Civil Liberties Uni­place," Marmalefsky said. 
U.S. District Judge Robert on lawyer, Dan Marmalefsky, told Tak.asugi gave Assistant U.S. Attor­the judge the goverment had in­Petersen argued that specifying ney Stephen Petersen until May 20 sisted release ofthat material would why the government deleted matter to turn over to him in chambers a damage national security, incite would force them to reveal the very declaration explaining "with political instability at home and information they are trying to keep specificity" why the government abroad and ultimately jeopardize secret. He expressed great concern deleted large sections from docu­lives. for protecting the matter even when ments released under the U.S. He expressed doubt about the it is turned over to the judge in his Freedom ofInformation Act. claims since the files are I 2 years chamber;.s. 

Senate debates activity fee increase 
By MIKE Mll..LEN amending the resolution's original passed. The details of the plan, such News Staff wording which would have given al­as the exact times for the use of the most three-quarters of the funds to facilities, will be decided upon at a 
The resolution to increase the stu­dorms. Peggy Prevoznik, student later date. dent activities fee by S 1 0 was body vice president, advocates the The proposal to schedule bus debated at last night's Student senate should "put a large amount trips for campus visits by friends and Senate meeting. for general use." Callaghan said the relatives (related story above) was 
measure will be voted on when the discussed. The resolution was tabled 
RefeiTing to the original proposal, senate next convenes. because of a lack of information. Student Body President-elect Rob Prevoznik pointed out "it could be a Bertino stated "If halls want to raise The proposal to usc a section of good idea, but there is a need for hall tax, they can vote on it." Student the library basement as a 24-hour more planning." Callaghan Body President Brian Callaghan study space (related story above), promised to study the matter by proposed a number of different op­introduced by Bertino and Vice speaking with the leaders of the tions for the use of the new funds, President-elect Cathy David, was various geograhical clubs. 

Campus Life Council examines rule changes 
By MIKE Mll..LEN 
News Staff 
Changes proposed by the Du Lac review committee were discussed during yesterday's Campus Life Council Meeting. 
According toJudicial Coordinator Bob Gleason, a member of the com­mittee, "people read the rules but do not know were they stand." The changes offered affect not the con­tent but the wording of the student handbook. According to Dean ofStu­dents James Roemer, rules are broken and then "people are wont to say 'I didn't realize it was that serious.'" 
To alleviate this problem, Gleason proposed placing the penalties alongside the regulations. He said there is a number ofviolations in the handbook which need clarification, including overnight parietals, drug possession, and sexual intercourse. According to Gleason, students who violate DuLac "need to know where they stand," and these changes will help achieve that goal. 
The laundry policy was reassessed, and Student Body Presi­dent Brian Callaghan said the issue will be discussed with the rectors of the women's dorms. Callaghan noted "some rectors had problems. 
Guys didn't adhere to nights that 
they were supposed to." 
Aplan to increase late-night stud t y space was introduced at the meeting. Proposed by Student Body President-elect Rob Bertino and Vice President-elect Cathy David, the resolution involves reserving ap­proximately 25 carrols in the library basement. The proposal also reads "a door would be added between the study area and canteen to grant student access to 'The Pit' for late night breaks." Father john Van Wolvlear, vice president for student affairs, suggested 25 spaces might do little to resolve the problem. Bertino countered "we are trying to promote LaFortune as more of a so­cial center rather than a study area," and "space is needed for more late­night studying." 
The Campus Life Council also dis­cussed a proposal to help brothers, sisters, and friends of students visit Notre Dame through organized bus trips. The buses of about 50 people, leaving from cities eight to 12 hours away, would offer inexpensive transportation for those who wish to visit the campus and have friends or relatives attending here. Some rec­tors expressed doubts over the proposal, citing the lack of supervi­sion as a major problem. 

Saint Mary's program open to Notre Dame 
By THERESA GUARINO schools made a coed program pos­Copy Editor sible this year. Five courses will be offered in 
The Saint Mary's Semester Around Madras, including History, the World Program is now open to literature, Philosophy, Religion, Notre Dame students as a result of a Sociology, Anthropology, Govern­decision made last week by the ad­ment, Economics, Art, Music and ministrations of both schools. The Theater. A total of 16 credits can be pwgram, which includes study and earned. All courses will be taught in travel in Japan, India, China, the English. Soviet Union and Nepal, is in its Students will be traveling 
second year, according to Dr. Cyriac throughout the semester in Western Pullapilly, director and originator of Europe, Asia, and Eastern Europe. the program. They also have the option of travel­
Pullapilly and Saint Mary's Vice ing independently during the President William Hickey met with Christmas holidays. Dr. Isabel Charles, director of Notre Dame's Foreign Studies Programs, Total cost of the program is one several times. A final decision was semester's tuition, and room and made Friday. board expenses at Saint Mary's, plus 
Students will study under a joint approximately S2,500. The applica­program by Stella Maris College and tion deadline is Monday, April I. Pul­Loyola College, both in Madras, In­lapilly stresses the early deadline, dia Last fall, only Stella Maris Col­because ofthe difficulty ofobtaining lege, a women's school, was visas and arranging the nearly two involved. The cooperation of both dozen flights on the itinerary. 
STUDENTS 
Do You Need a Full Time SummerJob? Do You Live In The Chicago Area? 
PSI MARKETING is expanding our Telemarketing Sales Staff to accomodate additional summer college students. In the past, our summer students have earned, on the average, of $150-$525 per week salary commission during the summer. We offer an extensive training program, great hours, flexible shift schedule, guaranteed salary, and congenial working atmosphere. 
What's the Catch? 
You must be aggressive, willing to learn, an above average student, and enjoy talking on the phone. 
Call our Toll Free number 1-800-621-6426 before Spring Break to set up an interview date while you're in Chicago during your Spring Break. If accepte~, you can l?ck up a summer job ahead of time. Ask for Mr. Davts when calling. 
sT. M A R y I s C 0 L L E G E R I N G ST. pA T R I cK s SALE
I 

$20.-$30, DISCOUNT ON YOUR CoLLEGE RING 
PU\CE: sr. rV\RY Is coU£GE POOKSTORE 

DivisioN oF CARNATION Cor1PANY .. 
DATE: 16NESDAYJ r·'V\RCH 14TH., 198ll 
DEPOSIT REQUIRED $ Ml~E 
Tl~{: 2:00 TO 4:00 P.M. 
/ 
l 
l 
' 

'HER F F J 0 N E S 
The Observer Tuesday, March 13, 1984 page 4 


London bo~bing blitz continues as 4 explode 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Police;: dismantled a 
bomb in ;t popular Arabic nightclub 
last night in the heart of London ­
till' latest inddt·nt in a bomb blitz 
~·otland Yard blamt·s on Libyan ter­
rorists. 
l'our bomb explosions in London 
and Mancht·ster over tht· weekend 
injured 26 pt·oplt-. Four other 
devices v.-en· dt·tonated by police in 
what tlwy descrihnl as ''controlled 
t·xplosions." 
Police cleared out the Omar Khayyam Night Club and lkstaurant on lkgnll Street, lllll' 'of London's moM fashionable shopping thoroughfares, and cordoned off the art·a aftn tlx· explosive dt·vke was discovered at about 7 p.m., a Scot­land Yard spokeswoman said. 
There was no explosion and there wert· no injuries, sht· said. 
Employees arriving for work at the hast·mt·nt nightspot said tlwy found tht· tkvke undt·r a table. Tht· dub, especially popular with Egyp­tians and Libyans, is in a six-story building that.tlso lmust·s the London otlkes of the Royal Jordanian Airlint·. 
S<.·otland Yard said the chief of its anti-tt·rrorist squad would join inter­national police talks today in Paris on surveillance ofsuspected Libyan tt·rrorists. 
Libyan diplomats were callt-d to the Foreign Olfict· t•arlicr and warned if their governmt·nt did not 
take steps to halt fighting among Libyan groups in Britain it would "seriously affect" relations between thc two nations. 
Libya has denied involvement in the homhings. which police belicve arc aimed at opponents of Libyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy. 
But a Libyan Embassy spokesman told a news contl:rcnce thcre might he Libyans in Britain who felt strong­ly about thc presencc of"criminals" from l.ihya living in this country and take aoion themselvcs. 
There are an csrimated -~,000 Libyans living in Britain permanent­ly, and an additional 10,000, mostly studcnts, who arc temporary resi­dents,· tht· British News Agency Press Association said. 
I lours before the bomb was found at the Omar Khan'am, Libya's rt·prescntativcs refused the British dcmand for a~surances Libya would do all it could to prcvent further at­tack!> .. 
"We have nothing to do with what has been happcning in Britain," said Omar Sodani, press attachc for thc Libyan People's Bureau, or embassy, in London. "We do not know who is doing what to whom." 
The diplomats, Muftah Fitouri and Hameda Zlitini, met Foreign Office llndersecretary Richard Luce, who voiced "scrious concern" at the violence. A Foreign Office spokes­man said thc diplomats denied any Libyan govcrnmcnt involvement. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Mobil Corp., with its S'i. 7 billion pa<.·t to buy Superior Oil Co., stands to gain a leader in finding oil without the headache of major antitrust objections, analysts said yesterday. 
Mobil's entry into the nearly !30 billion oil merger bonanza i:; the hllt'St example ofwhat analysts say b now a t;tct of life for Big Oil: it is t:heapt·r to buy oil on Wall Street than drill for it. 
For a change, Mohil,tht· nation's No. .2 oil company and an unsuccess­ful suitor of Conoco Inc. and Marat­hon Oil Co. in bith:r battles in I 9H I and I 9H2, appt·ars to han· made a fril'ndly dcal. 
Buying Superior, with I billion harrds of oil and natural gas rt·scrves, ti,r undt·r 56 a harrd would ht· "a lot chcaper than what it costs to explore for it," said William Randol, oil ;malyst at tht' inn:stment firm First Boston Corp Kt·y oil firms arc pa~·ing mure than two time~ that 

Fellow 
continuedfrom page I 
issue. What I'm most conccrnt·d about is that with tht· honor of Senior Fellow wt· uphold what the honor ofa Senior Fellow is supposed to he." he said. 
Should Augustinc rt·ct'ive a "rt·sponsihlt· majority vote of the scnior class," Jamcs said he would have no qualms with his selection. But he cautioncd evt·n though Augustinc may he a finc model, "hc has not affectcd the class. I don't think the senior class knows any­thing about him pcr~onally. 
"If hc did win, then I think the Senior Fcllow would not ht· a honor to a single pt·rson. hut it would he a statt·ment from the senior class conn·rning our fcelings about the al­cohol situation." 
Anita Kramer abo chairs the com­mittce, which indudes Pat Barry and Tricia Romano, st·nior das.\ prt·si­tlt-nt. 

within minutes ofeach other in the West End ofLon­don. 

GM shares $332.2 million profit with workers under new program 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -General Motors Corp. began distributing $332..2 mil­lion in profit-sharing checks to its employees on yesterday as part of the automakcr's record 19H3 profit of $3.73 billion. 
GM said 'i31 ,000 workers will get 

Mobil to be leader after merger 
amount for cach barrel of oil added to reserves. 
Those high costs show the dif­ficulty finding new reserves in remote arcas: last year, a group ofoil firms that included Mobil sank SI billion into an exploratory well in thc promisir.g Mukluk area off Alaska's north coast hut found only water. 
Superior has a knack ti>r bringing in wells. In the five years cnded in I 98.2, it lt·d thc nation's top .20 oil firms in replacing oil production 
through exploration,  says  a  19H3  
study by Tenneco Inc.  
In  198.2,  when  those  .20  firms  

rcplaccd an average 4S percent of their oiland natural gas production, Supcrior replaced I O'i pcrcent, it said. In 19H3 Supcrior replaced I 'iO pcrc..-nt ofits oil and gas. 
Tyler Davis of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. called Superior "one of tht· most fun­damentally and financially attractive domt·stic exploration and produt·­tion companics for the long term.'' 
1'vlobil announccd its offer on Sun­

day, saying the agreement capped 
months of talks. Few antitrust 
hurdles arc expected because Supe­
rior just finds and produces oil and 
docs not refine or market it. 
That should make a takeover by 
another oil firm "a much purer, 
cleaner undertaking," said Sanford 
Margoshcs, analyst at Shearson­
Amcrican Express Inc. 
In contrast, Texaco Inc. had to 
agree to get rid oftwo refineries and 
I ,900 Getty Oil Co. service stations· 
to obtain Federal Trade Commission 
approval of its S I 0.1 billion buy out 
ofGetty last month. 
Standard Oil Co. of California,. 
which last week offered $13.3 bil­
lion for GulfCorp., said it is prepared 
to give up all Gulf assets except oil 
and gas properties to win approval 
of what would be the largest 
cororatc takeover in lJ.S. history. 
The merger boom has produced new opposition in Congress, where there is concern about oil com­panies going decply in debt to buy one another without producing a drop of new oil. 
.The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
e Previous experience in journalism is not required, but applicants should be familiar with the elements of style in the English language, with good grammar and with current campus and world news. 
e Both jobs are paid positions which require working one night per week. 
e Submit application and personal statement to Mark Worscheh by 5 p.m. Wednesday. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
an average payment of S640. Ford Motor Co., which posted a record profit of S1.87 billion for 1983, is paying an average 5440 to I S8,000 of its employees. 
The first checks were di t strihutcd at GM headquarters by Chairman Roger B. Smith who, under a separate S180 million executive bonus plan, is expected to earn more than S I million this year. 
"The money is available because we worked together cffectivcly during 1983 to make General Motors stronger and more com­petitive," Smith said. "We still have a long way to go. But, as we continue to improve the profitability of the comp;jfty, W-G ~rc also increasing our share in that success." 
Smith, accompanied by GM staff members and reporters, handed checks to several members of GM's electrical systems dcpartment. 
Art eligible employec working a normal schedulc throughout 19H3 will receive about 5640, while hour­ly workers with average overtime will receive about $700, GM said. 
Profit sharing is expected to figure heavily in contract bargaining this summer. The United Auto Workers union has said it will resist any clforts by GM and Ford to offer prot1t sharing in lieu of significant wage inneascs. 
The automakers prefer profit sharing to schedulcd wage boosts, which must be paid regardless of whethcr a comany carns a profit. 
"I think profit sharing has got to he the way ofthe future, not only for General Motors, and not only for the auto industry," Smith said. 

Tro\lble ReadingYour Student Savings Card? 

Call today for a complete examination and 20% OFF any pair of glasses with your student savings card. 
• Large selection of fashion frames 

N
• All types of contact lenses 
' 
• Prescriptions filled 
• Dr. Ronald L. Snyd~>.­
• Dr. Patrick Albert 


PlufessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 

The Observer 
Tuesday, March 13, 1984-page 5 

APPhoto

Name change protest 
Police haulaprotestoraway, during a demonstration byProtes­tants in Londonderry Saturday, against a decision by the British Government allowing the Londonderry City Council to change it's name to Derry -the name used before 1613, when Protestants colonizedIreland. 
U.S. District Judge on the other side of the bench as his trial begins 
Associated Press 
RENO, Nev. -Prospective jurors fLied into a courtroom yesterday for the trijl of U.S. District Judge Harry Claiborne on charges that include taking bribes from a brothel owner, after the U.S. Supreme Court rejected his last-ditch bid for a delay. 
He became only the second federal judge ever to go on trial for crimes allegedly committed while on the bench. 
Judge Walter Hoffman of Roanoke, Va, appointed to hear the case, also refused to postpone the trial and ordered the fu-st of 225 prospective jurors to begin the selection process that is expected to continue through tomorrow. The trial is scheduled for five weeks. 
A federal indictment against Claiborne charges him with solicit­ing and taking $30,000 from Joe Conforte, owner of a brothel near Reno, in connection with a vote­fraud case in which Conforte was in­volved. 
He also is charged with trying to defraud Conforte by promising, in return for a $45,000 payment, to get Conforte's tax evasion conviction overturned by bribing 9th Circuit court judges. 
Conforte is expected to be the government's star witness at Claiborne's trial. Conforte's prison sentence for a tax-evasion convic­tion was reduced from five years to 1 5 months after he agreed to testify against Claiborne. 
Barely one hour before the trial opened, Supreme CourtJustice Wil­liam Rehnquist rejected arguments aimed at delaying the case. Claiborne's lawyers asked him to delay the trial until the full court could decide whether he must be impeached before he can be tried. 
Defense lawyer Oscar Goodman then asked Hoffman for a two-week delay to prepare a rebuttal after the government changed the date on which the $30,000 bribe allegedly took place. 
Hoffman denied that, noting the indictment said only the alleged bribe took place "on or about" Dec. 14-15, 1978. 
Goodman said the government broadened the dates after the defense showed Claiborne was in a Las Vegas restaurant instead of the Reno apartment where the alleged exchange took place. 
During the legal sparring, Claiborne leaned back in his chair and smiled occasionally. He has maintained his innocence and calls the trial an opportunity for vindica­tion. 
Last year, Judge Alcee Hastings of Miami was tried and acquitted of charges of obstructing justice and conspiring to accept a bribe. 
Claiborne, 66, has been at odds withJustice Department officials for years over his unrestrained criticism of the department's Organized Crime Strike Force in Las Vegas. 
Defense attorneys for Claiborne have claimed federal agents are seeking revenge because the judge accused the strike force of illegal wiretaps and arrests. They also have called the government's bargain 
with  Conforte  a  "deal  with  the  
devil."  
Conforte  was  a  client  of  

Claiborne's before he was appointed to the federal bench in 1978. He was appointed by President Carter at the urging of former Sen. Howard Can­non, D-Nevada. 
Conforte fled to Brazil to avoid serving time for tax evasion. 




~·taman 
ALEXIAN 

BROfHER... 
In the 

"I am an Alexian Brother. I want to be present sharing my faith in special service to others, reflecting God's Healing Care and Message. " 
Committed to Christ••• 
through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and the unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION. NURSING. CLERICAL. TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE. X-RAY. LABORATORY. ENGINEERING 

• 
MAINTENANCE. SOCIAL SERVICES. PUBLIC RELATIONS 

• 
PHARMACY. COMMUNITY HEALTH. REHABILITATION, 



lbucan 
berome 

an Alexian Brother! 
A Religious Community of Men 

Elk Grove Volla!l". lll./Eiizab<>lh. N I So. loui,, Mo.:S•n Ja.e. Cai.ISognal MI., Tenn.,Molwaukt>e. WoS< 


Brottl(•f"" worlin)l in tht> M1\o;1on!'. m Mexico and Philtppin€'~ 
and more. 
••n•nnn•u WRITE FOR INFORMATION • •nouuooou Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers 600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 
Please send more iniurmatoon at no obligatooo. Name-----------------------------------------­
Address----------­ 
Cit~·-·--------------·Stdte__________ Zip  
Agt•____Edu< ~lion  ---··· ••  

HOSPIT-'l -'NO HE-'lTH CENTERS: 

. . l 



Amtrak image suffers after freak accidents 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Amtrak hasn't quite lived down stories about "the killer train" -the Silver Meteor which on its way north from Florida last summer struck a woman fishing from a trestle, later plowed into an abandoned pickup and finally derailed after hitting another truck. 
On the way back two days later it 

hit a car, killing the driver. 
None of the accidents could be 

blamed on Amtrak, but it gave the 
railroad a round of publicity it 
would just as soon forget. 
In the last four months the na­

tion's passenger railroad has gotten 
more unwanted notoriety: it has suf­
fered two of the most serious acci­
dents in its 13-year history as trains 
derailed at high speed in Texas and 
North Carolina, leaving four dead 
and scores injured. 
Overall, however, government and rail industry safety experts give Amtrak high marks and say of all the ways of traveling -plane, bus, car or rail ~ the train remains among the safest. As the "killer train" inci­dent demonstrated, it is vastly more dangerous to get in front of a train than to ride one. 
Since Amtrak began operating in 1971, derailments have not been un­common but only 20 passengers have been killed in train accidents. During that time Amtrak has carried more than 200 million people. Half of the fatalities came in Amtrak's worst accident, a derailment in 1971 shortly after Amtrak began service. 
"The safety record (of Amtrak) I think you would have to conclude is excellent," said Bruce Fine, a rail safety specialist at the Federal Rail­road Administration. 
Safety experts say even when a train is traveling at 70-plus mph pas­sengers have considerable protec­tion because much of the impact is absorbed at the front ofthe train. 
"If you can keep the cars upright you almost never have a fatality," says Tom Styles, head of inves­tigatiions at the National Transporta­tion Safety Board. 
Serious lfiJUries have been 

reduced, the experts say, with im­
proved design ofseats, luggage com­
partments and car interiors to 
reduce the chances of a passenger 
being struck or hurled into a sharp 
object. 
Of about 50 people injured when an Amtrak train derailed near Kit­trell, N.C., last week, only 16 were hospitalized although the train was traveling at 79 mph. NTSB inves­tigators attributed the low number of serious injuries partly to im­proved car design. 
In a report to Congress last January, the Federal Railroad Ad­ministration concluded rail passen­ger service in this country "has compiled a remarkable safety record." The report said the rate of fatalities per rail passengers and miles traveled is on a par with inter­city buses, slightly better than air travel and 33 times better than traveling by private car. 
The National Safety Council reported for the three years ending in 1979, the death rate for railroad passengers was .07 per 100 million miles. That compared wtih .06 per 100 million miles for airline passen­gers, .02 for intercity bus passengers and 1.3 for auto passengers. 
The Railroad Administration report examined Amtrak as well as 19 railroad commuter lines and found from 1978 through 1982 "a single passengr had a one in 400,000 chance of becoming a passenger casullty and one in 40 million chance of becoming a passenger fatality" when traveling by train . 
Derailments are not uncommon at Amtrak and collisions at grade crossings happen even more fre­quently. From 1981 through 1983, Amtrak reported 99 derailments resulting in 212 injuries and four fatalities to passengers and crew. It had 527 accidents in which trains hit cars or trucks at grade crossings, resulting in 135 people killed and 
140 injured. Amtrak trains also 
struck and killed 57 pedestrians 
during the period. 
Rorb_yrsl  ·r.,eado..v  
"Spring Break Fever"  
~~····  3-7pm Mixed Drinks 2 for 1  

7-llpm Imports $1 Attn: Wed., lOam! ND-St. Mary'• "St. Patrick'• Party" 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~· .. ~-·~ 




~i~~~-<>~i_Ilt T_ue-sd~~-·M-Mc_h_13_,19-84~p~ag~e6 
A political fable for 1984 
Once upon a time in a land not far from here lived King Ronald and his citizens. Ronald was one of those kings who rules best by ruling least -the less he knew about how the kingdom was run, the less damage he was like­ly to cause to the general welfare. 
So whenever decisions had to be made, King Ronald's assistants always made sure the king was either aslet·p or on vacation. The 
Michael Varga Eavesdropping 
king liked vacations (every sixth day of his reign was spenten t'acances ). And indeed, the king liked sleep. 
In the beginning the citizens thought that all this was l'harming. "What a sweet king," tht·y said. for it was undeniably true that old King Ronald was charming, and seemed al­ways able to put tht· best face on any event. 
But thing.o; soured in the kingdom. Despite a successful dfort at kn·ping bread prices even with the rice prict·s, many ofthe citizens were alarmt·d when so ft·w could find jobs -and most all those who did, found them in build­ing cannons and otht·r munitions (things no ont· could eat!). 
On the South side of the Kingdom where many of the poorest lived, shops closed, hospitals cloSt:d, schools St:rved ketchup to malnoursihed children and called it a vt:gt:tablc. Tht:rt: was little food. All was being channellt:d into tht: dt:ft:nse effort. 
The king was sure that neighboring kingdoms wt:rt: strongt:r than his own. He claimed this "window of vulnerability" (he loved making phrases!), if not closed, would lead to the downfall of the kingdom. And so there had to be sacrifices for the greater good. 
The citizens were willing to sacrifice since the king was such a convincing speaker (when he wasn't askep or on vacation). He was able to make them believe that truly such an effort at sacrifice was required. But it slowly became apparent that many of the king's vassals and lords were not sacrificing anything -in fact they were benefiting from all this shifting of resourct:s from the South side to those regions where armaments were made. 
While the South side itself continued to struggle, the king (when awake) and his lords made wondt:rful merriment in tht: White Castle, where the king slept with his wife, Quet:n Nancy. 
Soon citizens started uniting to talk about things. Carpt:nters and tailors, teachers and dan1scls, knights and computt:r programmers -all wondered what could be done. They recalled a li:Jiight -Sir Walter -who had workt:d in the Whitt: Castle when another king had ruled. They were nostalgic for the old days -even though they knew things had not been great then, they imagined that with a different king -a King Walter, perhaps ­maybe the destruction of the South side and its citizens' lives could be halted. 
When the leaders of the assorted unions met they invariably mentioned Sir Walter, and soon everyone was talking about Sir Waltt:r and how much better things might be if he wert: king. Any sitting king would have been alarmed at this kind of talk, but King Ronald, asleep, was oblivious. 
An invitation went out abroad to locate Sir Walter and ask him to return. Sir Walter came immediately and announced "I am ready! I am rt:ady to be King!" He seemed anxious, even eagt:r to lead. And the citizens liked that. They were tired of the smiling, snoring King Ronald. 
Sir Walter went everywht:re, appt:aring before all sorts of groups -telling each what they might gain from working to make him king. "Walter" was on everyone's lips ­tt:acht:rs told tht:ir students "Walter." Carpen­ters told their apprentices "Walter." Damst:ls told their knights and programmers told their computers "Walter!" All was abuzz with Walter-talk. 
But something happened. Walter became sofamiliar to the citizenry -his name on the lips ofall -that soon itappeared to them that Walter had never left them. It seemed that Walter had always been part ofthe scene, part oftheir miserable lives. They could no longer distinguish what changes Walter might make as king -since he seemed such a part of everything already. 
Waltt:r was too much with them. And tht:y were tired of pursing their lips to say Sir Wal­ter's name. (They had had to grit tht:ir teeth to say "Ronald" hut whistling in the wind to say "Walter" St:emed just as feckless.) 

And just as they tired ofhearing Sir Waltt:r's "I am ready to bt: king" speech yet another time (someone would invariably say it was "garish" ofSir Walter to say he was rt:ady to be what he already was) 10mehow the citizens rt:membered a Sir Gary who had worked nt:ar tht: Whit~ ·Castle when another king had ruled. 
·'1' 
An invita~jon went out abroad to locate Sfr Gary and ask him to return. Sir Gary came and soon was everywht:rt:, his name abuzz on t:veryone's lips ... 
Meanwhile, King Ronald slt:pt (even as Queen Nancy broke another set of china ­shattering the dishes in hopes of making enough noise to wake tht: snoring monarch.) 


Is God going to vote Republican? 
"Wt· will now start the day with a few minutes ofsiknt prayer." 
Instead of taking roll or reading the daily school hulktin, this is how public school tt·adlt·rs n>uld begin a normal day if Ronald Rt·ag;m and some eminent membt·rs of the Rt·puhlican party gt·t their way. 

Tht· issue of a constitutional amendment allowing organized prayt:r in public schools is onct· again ht'fort· the Congress. The argu­mt·nts for pao;sagt· of such an amendment an· 
Mark Boennighausen 
Opinion 

keep schools from pressuring children to pray. The crux ofthe court's position rests on having tht: state maintain a neutral position with regard to religion in the classroom. 
An organized time for prayer during tht: school day seems to suggt:st that along with learning that two plus two equals four, a stu­dent should also learn to pray. This ta~k is out of plact: at a public school, especially in a country that supports a doctrint: ofseparation ofstate anti religion. 
Bc:sidt:s this observation, supporters of school prayer ignort: problems such an amendment would plact: on already ovt:rbur­dt·ned teachers. With organizt:d school prayt:r not only would teachers he required to in­struct students on tht: thrt:e R's, teachers would, in some cases, have to be instant tht:ologians. 
What does Mrs. Smith say when curious 

Johnny  Third-grader  asks:  "Why  are  we  
praying?"  
Does she  respond:  "It  is  state  law."  Or  

maybt: she could say: "It is for the moral well being of the country." An answt:r to such a question is better left to a child's parents or a qualified mmtster. Public schools have enough to do as it is -teaching students to pray should not be added. 
And although brillant sociologist and senator from North Carolina, Jesse Helms, may state: "It is no mere coincidence what the decline in public t:ducation parallels the ban­ning ofprayer in public schools," it seems that such poorly documt:ntt:d charges only add more emotionalism to tht: dehatt: and not much substance. 
Perhaps, however, the most interesting part ofthe issue is how an administration that cam­paigns on getting government out of people's lives can back such a constitutional amend­mt:nt. The addition of a school prayer amend­mt:nt to the Constitution has the potential of involving the government in an entirely new fact:t ofAmerican life. 
But then again, whot:ver said politics had to be logical. 
being tossed around with more emotional dection-year rht:toric than has ever been seen hdim·. 
Sen. Strom Thurmond from South Carolina states that school prayer is "of vital impor­tann· to the wdl hdng of our nation." Presi­dt:nt Rt·ag;m adds that sinct: his administration camt· into pc.>wt-r, "Amt:ricans arc turning hack to (iod," and furthc:rmort: school prayt:r shoukl ht· a t·ontinuing part of this process. 

Additionally, Reagan thinks that "liberal at­titudt:s" hdped America lose ht:r "moral bearing.o;" ami it is through tht: work of his ad­ministration that tht· llnited Statt:s can rt:gain this formal moral standing. But ont: wondt:rs what this "moral bearing" is. 
As often happens when rt:ligious issut:s art: thrown into the pc.>litit'al cauldron, emotional language takes over from common st·nst·. Wht·n school prayl'f advocates argut· tht:ir pc.>sition, they imply that school children are not allowt·d to pray. 
This simply is not the case. In 1962, when tht· Supreme Court struck down school prayt:r (t.'nge/tl. Vitale), the court specifically prohibited organized school prayer. 

If a student wants to say a prayt:r anytimt: during tht· school day. he is pcrft:ctly ablt:. A 
quick prayer before  a  test  or simpk grace  
hdi>rc: lunch is fine.  
What  oppc.mc:nts  of  school  prayt:r  

(including tht· Supreme Court) want is to 

I
C'MON.GOD! 
~T I'M ALR£1\DY
t'~N MG~ 
IN SC"OIX.S!
lJ SCHOOL! 
1~ EVERYWHERE\
\ 

I ~\D ~OVRf COMING 

BACK TO SCHOOU 
YOU WANT ME 10 


rAll THE PRlNCIFA\.? 



Jf I 

_____.,___ 



Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief............................... David Dziedzic DepartmentManagers Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe 1'. (J. flo.\'{!. 1\'otn.· Uame, IN 46 556 ( 21 Y) 239-5303 Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn /lusiness Manager ..................Christopht:i' Owen The Ohsert•er h tht· indt:pendt·nt newspaper published by tht· stmknts of the l'ni· News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide 
Controller............................... ...........Alex Szil\'as 
\'t·rsity of Notrt: Damt· duLac and Saint Mary's Collt·gt·. It dot·s not nc:ct:ssarily rdkct News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Adt•erlising Manager ........Jeanie Poole tht· pc.llidt·s of the administration of either institution. The news is reportt:d as ac­Saint Mary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager... ...Mark Miotto t·uratdy and as ohjt'l'tivdy as possihlt-. l'nsignnl editorials represent tht· opinon of a Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan \rstems .\fmzager..... ..Kevin William~ majority ofthe Editorial Board. Comml'IHaril's. kttc:rs, and the lnsidt· Column present Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher tht· vit·ws oftheir authors. Column span· is available to all mt:mhl'fs ofthe community. 1-"l!atures Editor ................Sarah Hamilton 
Founded November 3, 1966 

and lht· frt·t•t·xpn·ssion ofvarying opinions on campus, through kttc:rs. is t:ncouraged. Photo Editor. .......................................Scott BoVI t"r 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------­
.. Viewpoi'rit -·····································-···· ·········· ······· · 
Tuesday, March 13, 1984 --page 7 

Argentina's democracy 
For the past seven years, human rights viola­tions in Argentina have been so severe that one of the ftrst acts of the constitutional government was to throw our past four presi· dents in jail. 
In December 1983 Gral. Reyhaldo Bignone transferred his presidential office to Dr. Roul 
Santiago O'Donnell 

Guest Column 
Alfonsin, the frrst constitutional president in Argentina since the military coup of March 1976. 
Today, less than three months since the transfer of power, Bignone and the other three post-1976 presidents are among the handful of military under arrest for severe human rights violations. 
Bignone is accused of ordering illegal ar­rests, filing false testimony and neglecting in· formation on two members ofthe communist party who have been missing since August 
1976. J ) 
These two were arrested while serving mandatdry military obligations in the Mi{ltary Academy, at that time directed by Gral. Bignone~ Their families never saw them again. 
The arrest ofGral. Bignone is one ofthe first reactions of Argentina's judicial system to a regime that has committed some of the worst atrocities since the Holocaust. 
Using as justification the "dirty war" with left-wing guerillas, the military illegally ar­rested at least 30,000 people and sent them to secret concentration camps from which they never returned. 
Only with the inauguration of our new civilian government has the press begun to release detailed accounts of the concentra­tion camps, the brutal torture ofthe prisoners, and the collective executions in which most ofthese prisoners were annihilated. 
The Argentine military, like many other U.S.-backed military regimes in Latin America, tried to transform society by destroying the elements challenging its attempt to dismantle national industry and thus make the economy dependent for raw materials on the world market. 
To achieve this goal, the military unhesitat· ingly kidnapped more than 200 minors, many of whom were tortured in front of their parents. Thousands of political dissenters, including many student and labor leaders, were persecuted, exiled or killed. Some still remain in hidden concentration camps. 
The future of Argentina's democracy depends on how it chooses to solve the human rights situation. My impression is that scattered measures, such as Bignone's arrest, are intended to satisfy a voracious mass media eager to make up for its past silence, not to help 30,000 mothers find out how and where their children are. 




Russia not the only Evil Empire 
President Reagan, within the last year, !las described the Soviet Union as an evil empire bent on planetary domination. Unfortunately, this view is widely held throughout our country and here at Notre Dame. 
This attitude is so disappointing primarily because its progenitors and champions most often know next to nothing about the current 
James Rickert • 

Guest Column 
state of the world or they rationalize the facts they do know in order to force them to fit their world-view. 
An excellent example of this phenomenon is the attitude many people have about arms spending. The Soviet Union is often seen as a nation spending up to 30 percent of its Gross National Product on armaments in a full scale attempt to achieve world domination. 
The United States, on the other hand, is seen as a benevolent power spending just enough money on its defenses to keep itself safe from the communist threat. Unfortunately, however, this is simply not the situation of 1984. 
First, we must realize that the gulf between the defense spendingof the superpowers is not nearly as great as is often reported. According to statistics released by the Central Intelligence Agency for 1983, the Soviets spent roughly 14 percent of their G.N.P. on defense this included civil defense measures and military aid to foreign countries. ·· i 
Reagan used these figures to help prod Congress into appropriating th_e current huge defense budget so we can safely assume that these numbers are not underestimated. 
In 1983 the United States spent almost 7 percent of its G.N.P. on all types of defenses. However, this lopsided and frightening com­parison disappears on a closer examination of the facts. The United States has a much strong­ereconomy than do the Soviets, so, in order to stay close to us, the Russians must spend a lar­ger percentage oftheir G.N.P. on defenses. 
The Government Accounting Office reported that the Pentagon will spend close to 5280 billion dollars on defense in the upcom­ing year. This figure is actually very close to the best estimates of the Soviet defense budget. 

Reagan has begun to throw the full weight ofour industrial might behind his arms build­up, and the Soviets, with their weaker economy, cannot hope to keep close in this renewed arms race. 
When Reagan is pressed on the need for out spending the Soviets, he repliies. we must atone for years of being outspent by the Rus­sians. His argumentation is untenable. The so­phisticated weapons systems of today are so quickly outdated that they must be often replaced by more modern arsenals. 
Therefore, past weapons expenditures by both superpowers are irrelevant to the present. The arms appropriations ofeven five years ago were used to buy weapons that everyone today considers to be obsolete. Be­cause of this, Reagan's main justification for his arms build-up borders on the fantastic. We have no weapons gap to close, and we cannot, with any honesty, believe that the Russians are outspending us in a blatant attempt at world domination. 
Therefore, those who see the Soviet Union as an evil empire attempt to show that the Soviets spend their huge defense budget in an aggressive, imperialstic fashion; the Russians' invasion of Afghanistan serves as an example oftheir desire for world hegemony. 
However, if we condemn the Soviets for 
their Afghan invasion, we must also condemn 
our own invasion ofGrenada -the situations 
are identical in all important aspects. Both in­
vasions were forcefully denounced by the 

United Nations: in Grenada, we removed a 
government opposed to the West in order to 
instate a government that would act in our in­
terests, and the Russians invaded Afghanistan 
in order to prop-up a government that acted at 
the behest ofthe Kremlin. 
Both superpowers set aside ethical con­cerns in the face ofself-interest; neither nation was willing to let a close neighbor become closely involved with the other camp. 
Reagan calls Afghanistan an example ofRus­sia's evil desire to rule the world, but, in order to say this, we must also allow the same criticism to be levied against the United States. The world is not black and white. We cannot condone our own actions and military spending, and, at the same time, denounce similar actions and spending by another. 

P. 0. BoxQ  
Racist cartoon Dear Editor: I am simply appalled that you and your staff allowed a cartoon as blatantly anti-semitic and racist to be printed on the editorial page of you March 6 Obseroer. It perpetuates cruel sterotypes which cer­tainly should find no place in any respectable publication. Anti-Semitism and anti-Black racism are both evil. I regret this unfortunate lapse. The fact that the cartoonist is from a synd· icate is no excuse. You owe your readers an apology. Msgr.johnj. Egan Black arts DearEditor: As a Black student here at Notre Dame, I find it very disheartening to see that very few of the white students had even the slightest interest in attending any of the activities sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Council during the month of February. The BCAC works very hard at organizing these activities every year. Yet despite its ef­ fort, many of the white students view these If those students who make up the majority activities as something strictly for black stu­at Notre Dame are not willing to support dents. Does this mean that black students those activities that are aimed at culturally should shun those activities sponsored by enriching the environment on this campus or clubs that are run by white students? activities that express an alternative view At Notre Dame, there seem to be three dis­point, then I think that this University should tinct groups ofstudents ­white males, white be comprised entirely ofstudents who fit the females and minorities. However, the entire Notre Dame mold -Catholic, male and campus seems to revolve around the white white. males. Whatever the white males consider to Kenny Hoefer be Notre Dame's priorities seems to be just that. · For example, the issue of a "dry" campus Alba review seems to be more important to the white males than either of the other groups. Issues DearEditor: that seem important to the other groups, I recently saw a copy of your paper called however, seem to always take a back seat. The Obseroer. I thought it was a good example It is obvious that most of the white males offreedom ofthe press. And I was glad to read are made from the same mold. As a result, they about the play that they did at your school are only willing to concern themselves with called "The House of Bernarda Alba," which those things that fit into their narrow, con­was a play that I went to. It was a very good servative view ofthe world. article. For example, the headline was good. It But where does that leave the women and said there were five virgins in the play, except minorities of this university? when I saw it, there was just four virgins. So I From my point of view, I think Notre didn't know ifthat part was right. Dame's white, male-dominated Administra­But I did like how your boy talked about the tion and studeJ:H b,ody should realize that they girls in that play. There was a lot ofgirls in it. are not on this c-ampus alone. The women and And he mentioned the name of two, except minorities ofthis university want to feel as im­one was spelled wrong. So that part threw me portant in the general scheme of things as off for a minute. But I really liked all the rest of their white, male counterparts. what he had to say. I could tell he was quite  clever. For example, it was interesting when he wrote about the dorm room in college, ex­cept I couldn't tell how it related. Anyhow, I was very glad that you have such good articles about the plays at your school because then all of your students will know about them and can get together at them. Like in your article, the boy sort ofhinted at dates. And so it is a good thing to put ideas about dates in your articles about plays. I hope you will continue to have good success with your paper. And I hope that there will be more good articles from such boys as the one I have told you about. Josie Hanson License plate DearEditor: Sometime during the past two weeks the license plate on my car was stolen in D-2. It was an Oklahoma plate reading DOMER 86. An immature, stupid act ofvandalism, stealing personal property such as my license plate, is inexcusable. Sad but true, it is highly probable that a student stole my license plate. I am ap­palled that such an act would occurat this uni­versity. I want my property returned. Any information leading to the recovery of my license plate would be appreciated. Michele Ritchie  

' 


Sports Briefs 
Three membersof the Squash club participated in the Windy City Open last weekend in Chicago. Chaitanya Panchal, playing in the B Division, was a semi-finalist. Ron Anderson and Sean Richardson competed in the C Division. -The Observer 
Anyone going on the Aspen ski trip is re­
quired to aattend a meeting tomorrow in the LaFortune Little Theater at 8 p.m. It is important that everyone be at the meeting. ­
The Obsen'er 

College basketballwill be in the spotlight tonight on "Speaking of Sports" on WSND AM-64. Call in with yur questions or comment n the NIT and NCAA tournaments by dialing 239-6400.­
The Obsen•er 

The championshipfor the University ofNotre Dame hilliards tournanwnt will be held today in the pool room below the lluddle at 7 p.m. All are welcome. -The Obsen'er 
l_ Tuesday, March 13, 1984 -page 8 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held on Saturday, March 31, at a time and place to be an­nounced after Spring Break. Women may play in the men's tourna­ment. -The Observer 
Start warming up for the NVA tennis tournament. Each hall may enter one team and the entry deadline is Wednesday, April 4. More details will be given here at a later date. -The Ob­server 
Keeping training for the Irish Spring Run, a six mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golf course. It is coming up after Spring Break. Trophies, t-shirts, and prizes will be awarded. ­
The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rowing Clubwill be having 
a meeting on Sunday, March I I, at 9:30 p.m. in LaFortune's Little Theatre for all those traveling with the team to Austin. The balance due on the trip will be collected at this time as well as all raflle ticket returns. Those unable to attend the meeting should call Joe at 8198 orJ.T. at 1414. -The Obsen,er 
Knight 
continued/rom page 12 

his capabilities. He's our best defensive player. We've had to make more changes than any team we've ever had. (Steve) Alford has had to carry a real burden. He has had to handle the hall and be our best scorer." 
Knight said Alford, a freshman, 
also has been burdened by playing 
defense. 

"These kids arc not used to playing against this kind of talent," said Knight, who noted that fresh­man Marty Simmons and sophomore Stew Robinson have lacked consis­tency. "Simmons has been up and down. He is not used to playing against size and quickness. 
The Obsert•er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. at-cepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday lhrough Friday. The Obsert,er Saint Mary's office. located on lht· lhird floor of Haggar Collegt· Center, accepts classifieds from 12:.\0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though friday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid, eilher in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charat·· 



Classifieds 
ters erda·. 
NOTICES 

PRO-TYPE Over 12 yrs. experience typ1ng dissertations, manuscnpts. and Student papers. Call277-5833 
ENOUGHIII Hey guys. cool rt With the sweats and lack­ets. okay? II was ONLY the Liberty Bowl! 
Summer Sales Positions. Average ear­nings $2700. Sell yellow page advertiSing for Notre Dame and Western M1ch1gan Umversity Campus Telephone Dirac­tones. Spend 5 weeks 1n Notre Dame and 5 weeks 1n Kalamazoo. Car necessary. No summer school students Lodg1ng and one meal per day prov1ded wh1le in Kalamazoo. Quah~ed students should call Umversrty D~rectones. 1 -800-334­4436. for more 1nfonnahon by March 31st. Ask lor Barbara N1euk1rk 
ATIENTION CLASS OF 1987fff 
VOTE THE HAPPENIN' TICKET FOR 
1984-851 

Wnte us in tor sophomore class oligarchy. 
so we can put It on our resumes. 
·TOMMY MCHUGH 
-MIKIE O'GRADY 
-DANNY TANCZOS 
-STEVIE KRANZ 

DEDICATED TO LAZINESS AND 
APATHY FOR '84-'85 

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES mghl cocktail wa1tress.day wa1tperson. day ut1hly.APPL Y WHARF RESTAURANT 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME 
CALL MRS COKER 233-7009. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME 
CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009 
HELP! NEED A RIDE TO PHILLY TO DRINK GREEN BEER AT SMOKEY JOE'S FOR ST. PATTY'S DAY. IF YOU'VE GOT ROOM GIVE ME A CALL AT 1494 AROUND MIDNIGHT. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST a gold Smith-Corona electric typewriter 1n black carry1ng easel! II was lost '" Zahm Half Please return. If found please call8875 or 8876. or return to Lost and Found In the Adm1n Bldg Thank you 
LOST; STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. ALL WOOL. PULLOVER. I LOST IT 2 OR 3 WEEKS AGO. IF FOUND. RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND ON FIRST FLOOR OF AD­MIN BLDG OR CALL BUDDY AT 8278 ANYTIME REWARD THANK YOU. ST AP.FU. 
FOUND. ONE SCHOOL RING WITH IN­SCRIPTION AVE MARIA'. ONE STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. AND ONE RED AND GRAY SCARF. FOR LOST ITEMS CALL ON SAINT ANTHONY (1536) THANK YOU VERY MUCH 
Lost: Prescription Sunglasses Brown Ray-Ban Wayfarer Frames WI Purple T1nted RX Lenses. H you can·t see w/ them on. they're probably m1ne CASH REWARD. Call Bo at1615. 
LOST: Gold cham bracelet of great sen­timental value. Sat. 3/3, on NDISMC campuses. If found. PLEASE call (SMC) 4275. 
Lost· Operat1oons Research Text book (While) taken from booktore Wed 7th 11 found please call ED at I 106 306 Flanner as soon as posssible I have a test next week LOST Wallelfpouch Maroon. leather. z1pper Or1ver's license and Cahf. 1.0. enclosed. Last seen Monday (3/5) p.m. 1n BP. Mary 283· 1992 
LOST A SHARP CALCULATOR --within last 2 weeks --please call Mary Bath. 6289 
I lost my Notre Dame class nng-class of 1 985,1nllials engraved RRH it was -a Chrismas giN from a very spec1al person­much sentimental value. Please call Bob at 1010 or return to Lost & Found. 
LOST. One pa1r of BLACK SKI GLOVES e1ther 1n the Art Bldg or 1n the Business Bldg or anywhere around there. Desperately needed aas w1nter IS still upon beautiful South Bend. Please call Steve at 8428 in the even1ngs. 
LOST· A SHARP CALCULATOR --within last 2 weeks --please call Mary Bath. 6289 
I lost my Notre Dame class ring-class of 1985,1nltials engraved RAH 11 was a Chnsmas gift from a very special person­much sentimental value. Please call Bob at 1010or return to Lost & Found. 
LOST. One pa1r of BLACK SKI GLOVES either 1n the Art Bldg. or 1n the Business Bldg. or anywhere around there. Desperately needed aas w1nter is still upon beautiful South Bend. Please call Steve at 8428 in the even1ngs. 
LOST?? Navy blue NO plastic bill fold· SMC Clubhouse-Sat 10th-AIIID's-dnver's license.exchange card.student IO,m1nister card, etc please return them-I NEED them for break -Mary Rose 7852 
lost-gold Armitron d1gital watch wed mght March 7 at the ACC track call M1ke at ·147211 found. Thanks 
Lost A gold woman·s d1g1tal watch Timex 
on Fr1day 3/9. Possibly left at the brar. 
Please call Amy at6954 it found 
To whomever stole my Cas1o Sportswatch from the ACC Prt dur~ng a women·s lnterhall game· Each time we comm1t an ev11 we kill a part of our truest self. tor evil is a negat1on of the good. Committing s1n is comm1tt1ng a su1cide of the worst kind: sp1ntual. I don't want my watch back. you may have rt. 
My camera, w1th the 1n1t1als Jan. mys­teriously disappeared from Carroll Hall Sat. mghl. The film is of great sentimental value It you know of Jts whereabouts please call 71 1 9 
LOST. a burgundy Larry Lev1ne wool coat 
3/9 at Corby's. If found. please call6983. 
LOST THUR. NIGHT GOLD SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH. OF GREAT VALUE TO OWNER. REWARD OFFERED. 1688 
WANTED 

SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? I need a ride to SyracUM or Rochealer lor Spring Break. Will shant expenses. Please can Debbie 284-4311 
NEED RIDE FOR 3 TO WASH DC AREA LEAVING FRI FOR SPRING BREAK CALL KEVIN at8214 
Desparate girls need nde to Lauderdale!! Any space available call SMC 5046 
Ride needed to BOSTON. Can leave as early as Wed. afternoon. Will share usual. Call Steve. 277-8785 
lam DESPERATEibrarideto ATLANTA lbr Spring Brea!<. Anybody going to Florida could d-op me off along 1-75. Can leave Friday atrernoon. Call David at 277­1326. 
AIDE NEEDED!! Area of Read1ng Pa. tor break Call Laura 8034 
LONG ISLAND?NYC ride needed, share usual. call Phil at 7695. 
Need r1de lor spring break to the lovely VIllage of Midland, Michigan. Okay. anywhere nearby is ftne. In fact, if worst comes to worst. even Saginaw 1s all r~ght. It you can help this poor. sweet. cute, little boy, give Ronnie a call at 8287. He won't 
lh1nk you're rust be1ng bold. 
PITISBURGH---RIDE NEEDED! Larry 1487 
Friendly. ou1go1ng Single male seeks one­way ride prelerrably to BOSTON but will also take to NYC. No photo necessary. Please call STEVE at 8428: evenings af­ter8pm. 
NEEDED RIDE OR RIDES TO TAMPA FOR SPRING BREAK WILL SHARE EX­PENSES call TOM OR HENRY AT 1748. 
NEED 2 RIDERS TO FLA. LEAVE NU FRI MORN. LEAVE FLA SAT APPX $60 ROUND/PEAS. BOB 3311. 
Need r1de to ST LOUIS tor Spring Break. Will share usual. Call Pat 1003 
NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE OR UTICA. NY AREA FOR BREAK WILL SHARE THE USUAL CALL DAN AT 3698. 
fo...ALE OR FEMALE STUDENT HELP WANTED: SAINT MARY'S SNACK BAR MUST BE WILLING TO WORK LATE EVENINGS. INCLUDING SOME WEEKENDS. APPLY IN PERSON OR CALL5537. 
Need a r1de to Ch1cago e1ther Wednesday aNer 3:10 or Thursday Please call Mic­helle 7187 
DC AREA--NPed 2 riders leaving Fri AM. $30 round trip! Call Lisa AFTER 8 PM at 522-6891. 
R1ders needed to Colorado or Kansas Call Andy 1380 
URGENT! 4 g~rls need r1de to lndpls. or louisville.Ky. Can leave noon Fri. 2985 
WASHINGTON D.C. AREA RESIDENTS--Need to sell my spot on the 
D.C. CLUB BUS for spr~ng break. CALL TIM at8671. 
I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO CLOUMBUS, OH, FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL HOWIE AT x1785. 
NEED RIDE TO NY OR LONG ISLAND. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DAYTONA/JACKSONVILLE call 6877/6879 
need ride to ChiCago · western suburbs. Can leave aNer 4 Thurs. call Sheila/Laura 3484 
t-iiDEHti NEEDED ONE WAY-NO'i"AI:: DAME TO RICHMOND. VA OR D.C. AREA FOR SPRING BREAK CALL NANCY6868. 
RIDERS NEEDED ONE WAY-BOSTON TO NOTRE DAME LEAVING SUNDAY. MARCH 25 CALL NANCY AT 6868. 
R1ders needed to Alabama or anywhere along 1-65. Call Theresa 7591 or Frank 1609. 
RIDE TO AUSTIN. TX AND BACK. Leave Fr1 3/16 or poss Thur. Return Sunday· 3/25 share usual .. Call Patrick at3537 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE BRAND NEW TYROLIA 380 
RD BINDINGS$100 CALL DAVE 8810 
FOR SALE GREEN OVERCOAT. 
LARGE. IN VERY GOOD CONDITION MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER­CALL PATIY AT 8654 
BOTLEGS.ALBUMS 277-6398 
MAXELL's $ 2.65 & TDK's $ 2.50. call DAN MEAKIN 277-3306 
Attn. new Hall Pres. 1 yr old Foosballtable 4-sale ex. cond.. ideal tor hall game room. Must sell. 234-0319 Bast otter. 
bmw 1978 excellant condition meticulous 
care k. davies. audio center or 683 -6661 
Attn. new Hall Pres. 1 yr old Foosoalltable 
4-sale ex. cond., 1deal for hall game room. 
Must sell. 234-0319 Best otter. 
bmw 1 978 excellant condition meticulous care k. davies, audio center or 683-6661 
BUY OF THE WEEK: MEPv;OREX DIS­KETIE 5 114" SINGLE SIDE.DOUBLE DENSITY PRICE $1.90 CALL 232-9349 AFTER 5.00 PM 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIIIIIII 
Real Programmers don't document. 
Documentation is lo simps who can'I read 
the listings or the ObJect deck. 
Hi Ed! 
ATLANTA ATLANTA ATLANTA 
David needs a ride to Atlanta lor Spring brea!<. Call him al277-1326. 
MOCK CONVENTION SPONSORED VOTER REGISTRATION thfa Tuea.& Wed.,March 13 & 14 Lunches In South & North Dining haifa Regfater to vote In 
Indiana I 
Moustcu..:he off·center? Come visit the man with the steel: elements of the latest style.. 
You have been chosen at random. 1 will 
give you my prized possessions -my 
frog legs. 
TIRED OF LOOKING FOR THE BEEF AT THE DINING HALL7 Sign up tor the NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS program. This week in the dining halls. 4:30-6:30. 
A RIDDLE 
Bring a man named after a menace 
Although this writer needs a pen ace 
A talk about half before I say bye 
Perhaps a tickle on Beckis lh1gh 
SPORTS DEPT. THEORY NO. 2: It the football team can lind some way to lose. it will. 
Would you be Willing to help Gary Hart during break, in your home state or where ever else you will be? It yes. please con­tact John at 3377. Domers with Hart will have a meeting later this week. 
BOOKSTORE FEVERIII 
I am going to Monroe City, MO lor Spring Break. II you know where Monroe City, Hannibal, Jackaonvlfle, Quincy, or anywhere In the area Ia, and you need a ride, calf (277-7570). 
Q:HOW MANY CHEGS DOES IT TAKE TO SCREW IN A LIGHTBULB? A:100. 1 TO ACTUALLY TURN THE BULB. WHILE THE OTHER 99 HOLD UP THE LADDER WHILE THEY COMPLAIN ABOUT WHY THEY DONT HAVE A JOB. 
Jefferson Starahlp 
Grateful Dead 
Steve Miller Band 
Pablo Cruise 
The Tazmanlan Devils 
and. now, 
Huey Lewis and the News 
The legacy goes on! 
Marin County Rocks! 
How many Eaophagua Constrictors does II take to screw In a llghtbulb? 
Two: one to screw in the lighlbulb. and one to calculate the necessary applied torque. 
the elephants are coming ... 
Seductress, 
Thanks lor being there. Don't !ell me about the dark midnights ofthe soul -it's the Saturday afternoons that are the 
worst. 
Konstantin Chemenko 
HOG FORMAL-Kris-How about some footpads. gloves. & M&M's? Paul-Mind il we dance w1th your dates? Chr~s-Sleep much? (poor Joanie) Dinner. anyone? 
N~ METS BASEBALL THE MAGIC IS BACK 
Would you be Willing to help Gary Hart dunng break. in your home state or where ever else you Will be? II yes. please con­tact John at3377. We w1ll have a meeting on Thursday at9PM 1n Keenan. 
Domers do 111n the snow. Come help Gary Hart to victory in the Illinois Primary. We will provide transportation back and forth from N.D.. a place to sleep. and a meal every day for anyone willing to help tor the first four days of break. If Interested. con­tact John at 3377. Meeting in Keenan at 9PM Thursday .. 
T.P. Tu as vole men coeur avec 99 bat­Ions rouges. Merc1 pour une nurt mervell­leuse. A bientotll T 
4-N Zahm, We heard there was some heavy eating go1ng on 1n Sam·s bed' Drink1ng Colorado kool-aid gets kinda dangerous.huh?l 1-3 3-1 SOCIAL DRINK!! Let us know if you want to blow some more speakers .. it'd be our pleasure! ALOHA 
I was good last mghl' MB 
DARREN AND PETE-O.K. Guys. So you FINALLY got my allentionlll hear you're cons1denng name changes!I I'm flaHered, bu1 it'll lake more than that. Kim 
I AM GOING TO COLUMBUS, OH, FOR SPRING BREAK... IT HAS FLORIDA BEAT BY A LONG SHOT. I NEED A RIDEIIII WILL SHARE EXPENSES, TEDDY BEARS, AND TACO CHIPS. CALL HOWIE AT x1765. 
Em1ly Chemical allraction ... or simply chemical alteration? Ben P.S Learn to skate over break 
BILL & BEAKER: Canada tor LUNCH??I What's next--Mexico for dinner? 
VOULEZ-VOUS? Meeting for French sk1l tor the lnt.Student Fest. Weds. 4:15. LaFortune lobby. Nous avons bes01n de toil 
RIDE NEEDED TO DETROIT. LISA 7445 
LIVE IN CONCERT: CHUCK HOVANCIK Saturday April 8. Get your tickets by call­ing 234-0283. 
IRISH MARAUDERS (AKA AROTC DRILL TEAM): MAJ Carter, SGM Hack­er, Greg, Dave, Rick, Jayne, Peggy, Tom, Mary, Carrie, Kerry, Angle, Eric, Pat, Ed, Emily, and theGOD SQUAD: Kevin, John, Chuck, Sue, and Chris: Congratulations on a job well done. From C/CPL JOE SCHWENINGER. GOD SQUAD LEADER: 
Gat rid olthe WINTER BLAHS' Buy a tick­et for Ne1ghborhood Roots (now on sale at dining halls). 
ATIENTION SMC JUNIORS 
Senior Board Applications due March 16th at the HCC. 
ATIENTION ND-SMC COMMUNITY GIVE UP YOUR LUNCH HOUR THIS THURSDAY AND COME SEE LISA E CERNEKA GIVE HER SENIOR SEMI­NAR AT 12:15 IN THE SMC SCIENCE HALL. IT'S AN EVENT YOU WONT 
WANT TO MISSIIIII 
ROBERT BANKS IS A HOMOsap1en CHRIS EDWARDS 

The Observer Tuesday, March 13, 1984-page 9 
NCAA Women's Pairings 
West 
Southern Cal. (24-4) vs. BYU (18-7) Oregon St. (21-7) vs. Montana (25-3) Oregon (27-2) vs. San Diego St. (23-5) UNLV (24-6) vs. Long Beach St. (23-5) 
Midwest 
Louisiana Tech. (27-2) vs. Texas Tech. (23-6) 
Louisiana St. (22-6) vs. Missouri (25-5) 
Kansas St. (25-5) vs. N .E. Louisiana (22-3) Drake (22-6) vs. Texas (30-2) 
East 
Old Dominion (22-4) vs. Penn St. (19-11) Virginia (22-6) vs. N.C. State (22-8) Cheyney St. (22-4) vs. Maryland (19-9) St. John's (24-5) vs. N. Carolina (23-7) 
Mideast Georgia (28-2) vs. Louisville (16~5) Ohio State (22-6) vs. Mississippi (23-5) Tennessee (19-9) vs. Middle Tenn. (19-9) Central Mich. (27-2) vs. Alabama (22-8) 

First round action is March 15-18. 
Regional championships will be March 22-25. 
The National Championship is March 30 and April1 at UCLA. 


The Picture Man  
Junior Parent's Weekend pictures are in! Pick-up at Basement of LaFortune-The Nazz Tues. March 13 Wed. March 14 llam-4pm each day Re-orders taken at this time  

After your lastexam~ what toughquestions will youstill be facing? 

We don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
•w 

Contact: Rev. AndrE' Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 
• Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 

INTERESTED IN BEING A PART OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEXT YEAR? 
Applications and job descriptions are now available for Executive Coordinators and Freshman Orientation Committee and can be picked up in the Student Govt. Offices 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Deadline: Friday, March 16 QUESTIONS? Call Rob at 1088 or Cathy at 1334 
There Is Still Time To Join The 
BALLROOM DANCE CLASS 
Time-Wednesday, March 14 from 6:30pm-8pm Place -Regina Hall Basement Lounge on 
Saint Mary's Campus Teacher -Ray Sexton from Indianapolis Cost -$20 for 4 weeks (skip Spring Break) 
Ifyou would like to join this class, you can 
register at thefirst lesson 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STU· DENTS ONLY. 


Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
injuries and illnesses that has 
plagued the team over the last few 
weeks. With the spring trip only a 
few days away, O'Leary can only 
hope that his players get better in a 
hurry. 
"We haven't had the starting at­tack practicing together for at least three weeks," O'Leary explains. "It's really cut down the amount of of­fensive work we could do, because practice is just not the same without the starters in. 
"Because the guys who are out are experienced, though, it won't be as much ofa problem to overcome. We already know they can play. The team offense will just be off. There might be some problems clearing the ball, but it should orily take a game or so to get over that." 
The perennial bad weather which has kept the team indoors could also cause a problem early in the season, especially when the team travels to the southeast to take on George­town, William and Mary, and Duke. While these teams have been able to practice outdoors for the entire preseason, the Irish have tried to get away with practices in the north dome of the ACC 
With this in mind, O'Leary has scheduled a scrimmage and an ex­hibition match before the actual season begins. The exhibition match with the Richmond Lacrosse Club and scrimmage with Randolph­Macon will basically serve as out­door practice sessions before the real test against Duke. Duke beat the Irish easily last year, 13-5, and Notre Dame will try to cut that margin somewhat. 
After the Duke game on March 21, the Irish will travel to William and Mary (Mar. 23) and Georgetown (Mar. 25). If some of the illnesses clear up, O'Leary's squad should be able to pick up at least one win on the trip. That would be a boost for the team as it begins MLA play on March 31 with a game at Kenyon College. 

The Observer 
Kemp battles mental and physical scars 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDREDALE, Fla. (AP)­
In September, Steve Kemp was the 
victim of a fluke, and he still is 
feeling the aftermath. 
In his first season with the New 
York Yankees after signing as a free 
agent, he was hit in the face by a line 
drive by teammate Omar Moreno 
during batting practice Sept. 7. 
It wasn't enough that he had suf­
fered through a season-long slump. 
Now he faced surgery to repair a 
broken right cheekbone and correct 
the blurry vision in his right eye. 
"At this point I'm not as com­
fortable: as I'd like to be," the left­
handed hitting Kemp said at the 
Yankees' spring training camp. "But 
I didn't know what to expect when I 
came here. I didn't know If I'd be 
able to see the ball. 
"I got over that quickly. Now it's 
just a matter of timing," he said. "I 
have to stop jumping at the ball and 
let my hands do the work." 
The surgery left barely a mark on 
Kemp's face, and he said he's "very 
fonunate in that aspect." 
But it did leave him with a mental 
wound that's still healing: "the men­
tal part of the game is very impor­
tant. But I'm going to keep my 
attitude high no matter what -at 
least I'm going to try. 
"I know what I'm capable of." 
In five seasons with the Detroit 
Tigers and one with the Chicago 
White Sox, Kemp proved himself as 
a legitimate RBI man. Twice with the 
Tigers, he drove in more than 100 
runs (lOS in 1979 and 101 in '80). 
With the White Sox in 1982 he had 
98 RBI. 
After leaving the White Sox, the 
29-year-old Kemp signed a five-year 
NHL 

In thi5 year's Nlll. playoff format, th(' rup four teams In ca<:h division make: the playoffs, rcgardlns of Ovt"rall kaguc suandlnJiC. 
PRINCE OF 'IV.uES CONFERENCE 
AdamaDtrislon 'IV L T GF GAPts. 
x-Huffaln H 21 7 l84 232 93 
x-(Jud)Cl' 38 H H 320 244 84 
Mnncreal 32 H 5 266 265 69 
Hanford l3 36 9 251 280 '~ 
Pattlck I>Molon x-NY 151ant.lcD 44 24 2 .~18 247 90 x.-WashlnRton 42 25 4 274 207 88 x-NY Rangco 37 25 9 276 269 83 x-Phllacklphla 36 24 10 296 255 82 Ncwjcnc-y 16 47 6 208 300 38 Pilt!'burgh 14 50 6 223 340 34 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe D-rblon 

W L T GF GA Pts y-Edmonton 50 16 5 404 284 10~ x·Calgary ~0 27 13 270 270 73 Vancouver 29 37 7 281 303 65 Wtnntprg 27 32 10 307 329 b4 LosAngc:ks 20 40 12 27~ 336 52 
NontaDtrislon x-J'f"nnc:5<>ta :16 29 6 .112 50~ 78 Detroit 28 36 7 262 284 63 St. Louis 27 37 7 253 2118 61 Chicago 26 37 8 242 273 6o Toronto 24 39 8 274 3~0 56 
contract with the Yankees thi·ough 1987. But in I983 he hit only .24 I and drove in 49 runs in 109 games. 
"I just want to get to the point where I can go out and play every day again," Kemp said. "I feel like I'm in pretty good physical shape. I'm still about 190 pounds, and I'm stronger, but it doesn't show in my hitting yet. It's timing. It shows that hitting is all timing." 
Kemp still faces a struggle to get into a good rhythm at the plate. 
"I've got to start hitting the ball consistently. You've got to get to the point where you don't even think about what you're doing -so it comes easy," he said. "Sometimes I get up to the plate and have a problem concentrating, focusing. I haven't really played fulltime since July." 
Kemp said he also had trepida­tions about playing the outfield when he came to camp. 
"Surprisingly, that was the easiest thing," he said. "I thought it might be the toughest because of the dis­tance. But I'm picking the ball up well, and my depth perception is 
OK." 
I 
I Address ------------------~ I I 
I I 
I
City,_________St'ate____Zip 
I
I 

Tuesday, March 13, 1984 -page 10 
NIT First Round Pairings 
Tomorrow 
OLD DOMINION (19-11) at NOTRE DAME (17-11) Lamar (25-4) at New Mexico (24-10) Southwest Louisiana (20-8) at Utah State (20-10) Georgia (17-12) at Tennessee-Chattanooga (23-6) St. Peter's (23-5) at Tennessee (19-13) 
Thursday 
Santa Clara (22-8) at Oregon (16-12) Nebraska (17 -11) at Creighton (17 -13) Wichita State (18-11) at Michigan (18-10) Ohio State (15-13) at Xavier (20-9) Georgia Tech. (18-10) at Virginia Tech. (18-12) Florida State (19-10) at North Carolina State (19-13) Florida (16-12) at South Alabama (22-7) Marquette (16-12) at Iowa State (16-12) 

Friday 
Fordham (19-14) at Weber State (22-8) Boston College (17-11) vs. St. Joseph's (20-8) at Palestra Pittsburgh (16-12) vs. LaSalle (20-10) at Palestra 


I 


r----------·--!".----------,
STUDENT AID 
It takes more than brains to go to college. It takes money. For tuition, room and board, and books. The Army College Fund is designed to help you get that money for college while serving your country. 
Ifyou qualify, you can join the Army College Fund when you join the Army. For every dollar you put in, Uncle Sam puts in five. Or more. 
So, after just two years in the Army, you can have up to $15,200 for college. After three years, up to $20,100. 
To get your free copy ofthe Army College Fund booklet, call or visit your local Army Recruiter. It could be the most important book you've ever read. 
SGTJones 
234-4187 CaD Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
L--------------------------------------~ 
·---------........ --.. ---..----·--···--·--·-----··---·································-···-· .. -·-· 




~4CJt.cllC3l~----------------------------------------T-ue_s_d_ay_,_M_~_c_h_1_3_,_1_98_4
___P_a_g_e_l_l 

Bloom County 
OH, nss {lf,AR! If YeR 1HROUbH IN MAKWP, COA16 OVER ANI? 
,NUT YOIJR GUEST STAR.,. 
MR. 5ft'{(; iJI!UAEJl 



Mellish 
1-\1. M~ NANf'.l MUMBLE ... GINA. ~11.4T'.l DAVID. 


V0/1\ f' \ 


Guindon Richard Guindon 

,., 

"Oh, that. It's just an old purse of your lather's, 
dear." 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  29 Gr. letter  48 Foam  4 Besides  
1 Sluggish  32 Monster of  51 Goad  5 Onewho  
5 Surrealist  fairy tales  52 Cudgel  practices  
painter  55 Cooking  duplicity  
33 In a pro·  bulb  
9 Sharpen  found way  56 Benefit  6 Placeof  
14 Genus of  spares and  
bitter herbs  35 Fortune  57 Lohengrin's wife  strikes  
36 Disturbance  58 Beer mug  7 Disembark  
15 Pearl Buck  8 One- 
heroine  37 Fungus  59 Different  million  
16 Interlace  38  "- Goriot"  60 Lager, e.g.  
17 Winnow  39 Class  61  Firma or  9 In dulcet  
18 Arm bone  40 Florid  cotta  tones  
41  Dramatic  10 Strained  
19 Come in  conflict in  62 Kin of 60A  
20 In addition  63 Unruly  
21 Resting 22 Take  literature 42 Observe  child  11 Appraise 12 Baker's  
umbrage  43 N.C. col- need  
23 Sports car competition  lege  DOWN 1 Final  13 Saucy 21 Everybody  
2 Omnium­ 
25 Memo  44 Mission 46 Sonny's ex  gatherum 3 Shoot the  22 Shoot dice 24 Assist  
26 Chatter 28 Tower item  47 Sailing word  works, Las Vegas style  25 Roman historian  

There are still openings on the Student Union Bus to Ft. Lauderdale 
Call S.U. for 
Berke Breathed 


AREN'T YOO A urn.£ 
SHORT FOR A U3bf,NCJ 7 
AREN'T YOU 
11 um.e 
1f.IUFOR 
Dave 




Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Brown Bag Lunch Lecture, "A Faculty Conversation with Alain de]anvry," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Kellogg In­stitute 

•12:25 
p.m. -Workshop, "Health Care Policy in the United States," Scott Vander Linde, Library Lounge 

•3 
p.m.-Tennis, ND Men vs Ball State, Courtney Courts 

•
3:30 p.m. -Seminar, "Shear Inducted Migration of Particles in Concentrated Suspensions," David Leighton, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4: 
I 5 p.m. -Lecture, "Financial AccountingStan­dards Boards," Anthony G. Thomas, 223 Hayes Healy 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Molecular Structure and Chemistry of Lefthanded Z-DNA," Dr. Alexander Rich, I27 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Notions of Stinking Oceans? Models for Organic Carbon Burial During Cretaceous 'Anoxic Events,"' Dr. Michael A. Ar­thur, I 01 Earth Sciences Building 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Biochemical Evolution of Mammalian Crystalline Lens: A Phosphorus-31 Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Study," Dr. Stephen]. Kopp, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•6:
15 p.m. -Graduate Student Women Sup­port Group Meeting, Wilsons Commons 

•7 
p.m.-Film, "Dead Birds," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 

•7 
a 9:30 p.m. -Film, "All About Eve," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, $1.50 

•7 
p.m. -Discussion and game, Firebreaks, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, 

•7 
p.m. -Open Auditions, for ND/SMC Theatre production ofGodspell, Washington Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Discussion , on American Presi­dents -Truman and Eisenhower, Max Lerner. CCE Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Disarmament in the 20th Century," Prof Bernard Norling, Carroll Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Social Disarticulation in Latin American History," Alain de Janvry, I22 Hayes Healy 

•8 
p.m. Lecture, "Jewish Nationhood: Theological and Historical Cosideration," Prof. Robert Seltzer, Library Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -Workshop, Mock Convention Rules, LaFortune Little Theatre 



26 Pasternak 46 Singing 27 Nimble group 28 Start 47 Came up 29 Dostoevski 48 Misplaced 
work 49 Poker 30 Moses' stake 
brother 50 Layer31 Overturn 34 Gaffe 51 Take a vote 
38 Kindof 53 Voyaging rubber 54 Pastry 
56 Arthur 40 Hell of TV 45 Scarlet 57 Recede 


Monday's Solution 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
S.U. talles you to O'Hare $10.00 
Buses &om Main Circle to Chicago March 15 -4:00p.m. March 16-11:30 a.m. 
Tickets avaUable at the SU Ticket/Reconl Ston 

Tuesday, March 13, 1984 -page 12 

Lacrosse begins over break with trip East 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Irish with 36 points ( 16 goals and 20 Sports Editor assists) last year, is one of the retur­nees. as is sophomore Joe Franklin, 
It has been four years since who led Notre Dame with 27 goals lacrosse was upgraded from a club in his first season. to a varsity sport, and, in each of the Franklin has missed a good ftrst three years, Notre Dame head amount of practice so far this year coach Rich O'Leary has brought in because ofstudies and illness, but he freshmen whom he counted on to should have a spot in the first line carry a big load. Usually the new­with Trocchi and Pearsall, who comers have come through for him, holds the Notre Dame record for but their inexperience also has hurt most points in a career with 99. the team at times. 
Whether or not Franklin is able to 
This year. for the first time, play, sophomore Tom Grote should O'Leary will not have to count on also see a lot of action. Last year the freshmen as much. With only Grote had I 3 goals and 14 assists. 
four lettermen from last year's team Also helping out on attack will he having graduated, he will have a junior Kevin Rooney. squad of players that has played to· The midfield was hurt by the gether for at least a year. While he graduation of last year's top of­does have some talented freshmen, fensive threats, hut two newcomers chances are that most will not see could help fill the hole. Those new­much action early in the season, comers, sophomores Mark Steranka 
The <>bsc:rver/Paul (:ifarelli 
which begins over spring break. and Tim Corrigan, will try to make "We've reached that stage finally up for the 36 goals and 2 I assists of

Sophomore Tom Grote, seen here in action last year Irish begin their season over break with a trip to the 
where we don't rely as much on our departed players Dan Pace and Jus­

with teammate Du•ane flicks, should help the of­east coast. For a more in-depth preview ofthe season, 
freshmen," says O'Leary. "It's a tin Driscoll. They will get quite a bit

fensilJe alttl<"k of the Notre Dame lacrosse team. The see Mike Sullivan's story at right. 
much better situation in the past. of help from the returning midfiel­The freshmen are pushing behind tkrs, however, as Smith, Quinn, the upperclassmen. While they may sophomore Bob Carillo, and juniors

Reportedly worth $10 million 
not start. they are making the up­Joe Bart and Dwayne Hicks return. perclassmen work harder." The first two lines of middies will The immediate goal t(Jr O'Leary most likely come from thest· seven



Thomas signs lifetime contract 
and the Irish is to improve on last plavers. 

year's mediocre 6-7 record. hut they The leader of the defense is juniorBy TOM CANAVAN verdome. "I'd just like to say thanks playoffs t(Jr the first time since 1977. also will be gunning for the Midwest Justin Shay who was named fir~t­Associated Press to the Pistons organization. I'll try to Davidson gives much ofthe credit Lacrosse Association championship. team All-Midwest last year. Shay 
play hard and do my best." for the Pistons' turnaround to the winner of which usually is con­won the honor not only tiJr his ex­

lsiah Thomas becamt· ont· of the Thomas' current contract with Thomas. sidc:-red the best lacrosse team in the <:ellcnt defense, but also for his out­highest paid players in the National the organization was to expire at the "He (Thomas) is the captain, the Midwest. With so many experienced standing offensive abilities. In just Basketball Association wht·n he end of next season. The two sides leader. and the catalyst for what hap­players returning, O'Leary is confi­two years, Shay unoftkially owns all signnl a "lift·time" contract yester­began negotiating on a new contract dent that things will be looking up.
pens on the tloor." Davidson said. offensive records for defensc.:men. day with the Detroit Pistons. 
around December, Thomas said. Thomas said the long-term deal "The team definitely should im­R<.·joining Shay on the defense arc 

Tht· agreement will extend "Isiah is now bound to the Detroit will not change him personally. prove over last year." says O'Leary junior Steve Cloud and sophomores Thomas' contract with Pistons an­Pistons and we to him for life," said 'Til still wake up in the morning who is beginning his fourth season Mike Rice and john Walsh. A frt·sh­otht·r I 0 years through the 1994-9'; Davidson. "That means the rest of and shower and do the things I've al­as varsity lacrosse coach. "We were man. Wally Stack, should also sc.:e a 
st·ason, said William M. Davidson. his pro career." ways done," he said. "What this gives so close in many games last year and good deal ofaction. 
tht· dub's managing partner. Thomas would be 34 at the end of me though is security. This is a great our inexperience hurt us The last line of defense, the Tt·rms of th<.· contract, reportedly the contract, after finishing his I 4th dub, and rlike it here." sometimes. The experience of this goalkeeper spot, will once again be worth $10 million to S12 million, season in the league. and both The 6-foot-1 guard started in his year's team should make a big dif­held down by juniors Rob Simpson 
wen· not dist·Iost·d. Davidson and Andrews agreed that a second consecutive NBA all-Star ference." and Pat Poletti. Simpson should get 
llowever, Thomas' lawyer. career that length is about the maxi­game earlier this season and was Ironically, there are only three the starting nod because he has Gt·orgt·). Andrews. said the deal will mum for an NBA player. named the game's most valuable senior letterwinners on this more playing time in the past two makt· tht· former Indiana llnivt·rsity Pistons General Manager Jack player after scoring 21 points and "experienced" Notre Dame squad. yc.:ars. but Poletti and junior Brian star "by far the hight·st paid point McCloskey said Thomas' leadership adding I'; assists for the Eastern The three -Steve Pearsall, Kt·vin McKeon. who switched from attack guard in the NBA." and his personality made him a likely Conference. Smith, and Mike Quinn -have all to goalie this year, should also get a 
Anoth<.·r Andrews clit·nt, guard candidate for the extended contract. Thomas led Indiana to the NCAA lettered in each of their first three lot ofplaying time. 
Earvin "Magic" Johnson of the Los basketball title in his sophomore years and, understandably, will "We're close to knowing what Angeles Lakt·rs, has a contract repor­"He's a spt·cial person," McClos­season in 198I, but went to the NBA serve as the team captains. The rest team we'll start," says O'Leary. "Now tedly worth S2'; million over 2'; key said. "I don't think we would after that season under the league's of the squad, however, will be com­we're going to be weeding people years, but the lawyer said he does have considered this contract unless hardship clause. prised of many juniors and sopho­out and trying to iron out some of not consider Johnson as a point he was special. He can bring this Last year, he led the league in mores. our problems." guard. team together." minutes played at 3,093. He also set Offensively, the outlook is bright If there is one problem that stands 
"It's a great day for me and for the The Pistons are 38-26 this season, a team record with 199 steals, break­as the entire attack returns, as well as out above the others, it is the rash of organization," said Thomas at a news lead the Central Oivision and virtual­ing M.L. Carr's previous record of 13 of last year's top I'; scorers. cont(:rt·n<.·t· at the Pontiac Sil-ly are assured of making the NBA I97. Junior Bob Trocchi. who led the see IRISH, page 9 

Knight's in accord with NCAA pairings 
Associated Press Asked what he thought of teams getting byes, Knight said, "Ask I 0 
CHICAGO ( AP)-Indiana Coach people and you get mixed emotions Bobby Knight, a purist all the.: way, and answers. It's a lot of baloney, yesterday lauded the NCAA for who doesn't want a bye?" "doing an excellent job in setting up Knight thinks his young Hoosiers its rt·gional tournaments with a great are tired and said "we played tired dispt·rsal of good tt·ams from one the last three weeks. This team got place to another." off to 17-'; and I0-2 in the con­
Knight. in a telephone interview. ft-rcnce and did an absolutely super also said the three teams selected job to get to those positions because from tht· Big Tt·n -illinois, Purdue a year ago these kids were either in and Indiana -this yt·ar "an· the high school or sitting on the bench. tt·ams that <.·an compt·te. That's it. "We played very well at Purdue three tt·ams ...period. Very quickly but we had tir<.·d streaks," he said. you an· going to run into a good Knight, whose Hoosiers have team and you'have to play wdl to been seeded fourth in the East advance." Regional, isn't sure if having a week 
Knight is in total accord with offwill help. using computl'fs in tht· selection "I don't know." said Knight, "We proct·ss. took a couple of days off last week. 
"Back in 1972 I talked about get­We played well for 32 minutes Satur­ting the best teams," said Knight. day (beating Ohio State '; :3-49) but ''I'm a proponent of :32 teams in the then we slacked off. lkld. Five games and a winner. Sixty­"We've changed a lot of people four teams next year will be better around. Our best player is 
Students stand in line yesterday to purchse tickets ofthe A(C with the General Public. For the first round

than this other stuff. Using com­(Winston) Morgan but he has had a 
for tomorrow's NIT game between Notre Dame and pairings, seepage 10.

puters to determine scht·dulc foot injury and has not played up to 
Old Dominion. More NIT tickets are on sale at Gate 10

strength has bet·n a tremendous part \ of progress." see KNIGHT, page 8 




