
Reelection reaction -page 5 

VOL XIX, NO. 52 the indcpcndt·nt ~tutil'nt m·w~papcr ~tT\ ing notn dame and ~aint man·~ THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1984 


Thousands of viewers
• 

phone suicide hotlines after CBS movie airs 

By MIRIAM HILL suicide accurately and sensitively, StaffReporter although she criticized it for not focusing more on why the boy com­
The showing of "Silence of the mitted suicide. Heart," a CBS movie dealing with Valdes said the show was valuable suicide, prompted thousands of because "it is important for the viewers across the country to call public to know about the topic in or­suicide hot lines after the show aired der to preve.nt suicide." Neither 'Jbursday, Nov. l. counselor felt the show prompted 
'lbe show told the story of a 17-people to commit suicide or made year-old hoy who drives his car over suicide seem more acceptable. a cliff after being rejected by a girl and receiving low scores on his With the number of teen suicides Scholastic Aptimde Test. growing rapidly, both joyce and 
Phones at a suicide intervention Valdes stressed the importance of servict· in Miami rang nonstop for preventing suicide by recognizing hours, according to one volunteer early warning signs such as depres­there. Shar joyce, director of the sion, radical changes in behavior, ~uldde prevention center in South and giving away valuable posses-
Bend said the center received four sions. calls after the show. If family members or friends 
Each of the calls lasted 30 suspect someone is considering minutes, so joyce could not he sure suicide, joyce urges they encourage how many others tried to call the the person to seek counseling as centt·r and could not get through to soon as possible. a counselor. Notre Dame's crisis When a person considering hotlinc did not receive any calls suicide calls the suicide prevention about the show, said Dr. Luis Valdes, center, joyce listens and tries to get director of Notre Dame Outreach the person "to focus on one or two and Consultation. main things that are really bothering 
joyce said she thought "Silence of 
see SUICIDE, page 5
tht· Heart" dealt with the issue of 
'Gripe Night' permits students to complain
By SUSAN FOLEY News .Half 'Dillon sucks,"' said Paul Reuvers, 
OBUD member and a "Gripe Night" Howard Hall water is sour. worker. "People just do not like Oil-Classrooms are either too hot 01: Ion on this campus." 
too cold. Gripes ranged from the traditional 'lbe clock in the Engineering about the quality of food and long 
Auditorium is 13 minutes too slow. lines in both dining halls to those And, ofcourse, Dillon sucks. concerning the lack of pencil shar­'Ibese were .some of the more peners in classrooms. 
than 70 complaints voiced by stu­However, more serious com­dents at last night's "Gripe Night," plaints are also handled by OBUD, sponsored by Ombudsman and held according to Director Henry in the North Dining Hall. 
see GRIPES, page 5 
"Probably one ofour best gripes is 
Sophomore Ray Powers gives his gripe yesterday at (imbud's Gripe Night in North Dining Hall. Over 70 complaints were aired, ranging from com· 
... 
ThC' Ob~nrcr/ChriN Mcl.(:an 

Sophomore Leta Weiss serves fellow classmate gathered last night in Chautauqua Ballroom to en· Fred Pugliano at the ice cream study break joy the ice cream and to ar1oid studyinR just a little sponsored by the sophomore class. Sophomores bit longer. 
Saint Mary's Weekend for Juniors and Mothers kicks off tomorrow 
By BETH WHELPLEY 
a.m., Sharol Parish, a Nt-w York The Junior Mother/Daughter
News Staff 
speech consultant, will sputk about Weekend has been a tradition at communication skills. A buffet Saint Mary's for many years now. 
A fashion show presented by Hud· 

luncheon catered by SAGA will then One new addition to the weekend son's department store featuring 
take place in the Haggar College has been the invitation extended to professional models as well as Saint 

Center Parlor from 11 a.m. to I p.m. the mothers to attend classes with Mary's students will be the highlight 
Weekend Chairperson Uz Zimmer their daughters on Friday. This yearof the College's Junior encourages mothers and their also includes a change in the 
Mother/Daughter Weekend, which 
daughters to attend the brunch at scheduling of the event it.~elf. Held begins tomorrow with registration 

the time written on their ticket to in January last year, Zimmer feels in the lobby of LeMans from 2 to 4 
avoid overcrowding at the that the fall date will eliminate many 
p.m. 
luncheon. ofthe traveling hazards presented In The schedule includes a perfor­Following lunch, different profes­the winter months. 
mance of the National Shakespeare sors will speak on a variety of topics The last day of the package sale Company's "Two Gentlemen of 
from I to 4 p.m. was Nov. 7. The price was S60 for Verona" in O'Laughlin Auditorium On Sunday, the weekend will be both a mother and her daughter, and at B p.m. on Friday, with a reception 

brought to a close with a liturgy at $30 for each additional guest. This following in the Stapleton Lounge. 
10 a.m. in the Church ofLoretto, and includes tickets for all events and Shenanigans, a musical dance 

an 11 a.m. brunch in the dining hall. meals throughout the weekend. troupe, will perform at this event. 
Five hundred and fifty mothers, Other commitee members In· The mothers and daughters will 
daughters, and guests are expected elude Unda Cascio, Lynda Dowling,begin Saturday morning on an ath­

to participate in the weekend Maureen McCrory, Therese Ryan,letic note, with aerobics, tennis, and 
events, compared to the 350 people and Diane Harvey. "I have worked racquetball beginning at 9 a.m. in 
who attended the event last year. with a wonderful committee this the Angela Athletic Facility. At 10 
Zimmer feels the increased atten­year," said Zimmer. "We were very dance can be attributed to the well organized. We've functioned barrage ofpublicity the juniors have under Murphy's Law. We have no received concerning the upcoming problems to date, and we don't event. Ten flyers have been sent to foresee any. We look very optlmis· each junior within the last eight tically to the weekend, which weeks. should be a great success." 

Report of Soviet MiG fighter delive·ry as yet unconfirmed 
Associated Press cials, who spoke only on condition they not be identified, said the 
WASHINGTON · As U.S. officials United States is considering possible studied intelligence data suggesting air strikes to destroy any such the Soviet Union might be shipping planes. MiG-21 jet fighters to Nicaragua, In Managua, Nicaraguan Foreign President Reagan yesterday warned Minister Miguel D'Escoto said a So­that he would regard arrival of the viet ship docked yesterday at planes as a serious matter and "a Corinto, a port on Nicaragua's threat" to Central America. Pacific coast, and unloaded cargo 
But in a post-election news con­that did not include MiGs. ference in Los Angeles, Reagan said D'Escoto did not describe the the United States "cannot definitely cargo carried by the Soviet ship, but identify that they ·have MiGs on" a said the vessel had been "harassed Soviet freighter that· left a Black Sea by a ship, fast launches and North port a month ago and reportedly American planes that violated arrived yesterday in Nicaragua. Nicaraguan waters." 
Reagan also refused to say what Earlier, the Sandinista govern· the U.S. would do if the ship does ment flatly denied that any _ships deliver the supersonic fighter 
see SOVIETS, page 5
planes. Other administration offi­

The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1984-page 2 
, 


In Brief 
The Second Annual Crazy Picture Hunt 
was among the topics discussed at last night's SMC Programming Board meeting. Students may sign up to have pictures taken ofthem­selves with friends, roommates, sections, etc. in an effort to create the "craziest" picture. Also discussed was the Dry Driving program which is scheduled to begin next week. It was announced at the meeting that Saint Mary's will the host eighth annual ACVI Confer­ence. -The Obseroer 
Smaller is better -at least in the case of the Japanese yen. New bills, up to 17 percent smaller than their predecessors, are expected to save printing costs for the government, foil counter­feiters and help wallet sales. In addition, the lower left-ha~d corners of the new bills have raised portions for easy identification by the blind. The new size was intended to help economize on printing costs and make the notes easier to handle, said Hitoshi Katayama, a spokesman for the Bank ofJapan. -AP 
With the 14th Space Shuttle flight not yet off 
the ground, NASA already was talking about another mission in the 
near future-a shuttle trip that will have Sen. Jake Garn, a Utah Repub­
lican, as a passenger. Garn is chairman of a subcommittee that con­
trols the money for the space agency and NASA administrator James 
Beggs told him in a letter "we think it appropriate that you consider 
making an inspection tour and flight aboard the shuttle." -AP 

Of Interest 
"The Ordination ofWomen"will be the topic 
ofa joint lecture by Rabbi Gordon Tucker oftheJewish Theological Seminary of America and Rabbi David Feldman of the Teaneck Jewish Center. The talk will be tonight at 8 in the Notre Dame Memorial Library auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Theology Department as one of its Crown­Minow lecture series. -The Obseroer 
The American Catholic Studies seminar 
will meet today at 4 in the Memorial Library Lounge. The speaker will be Professor Gerald Fogarty of the Department of Religious Studies at the University ofVirginia in Charlottesville. The topic will be "Vatican-American Diplomatic Relations: 1940-1984." The Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism is sponsoring the talk. -The Obseroer 
The effect ofunemploymenton a culturally 
disadvantaged family will be the subject of a lecture and film presentation by David Benavente, a Chilean sociologist, playwright and film-maker tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. The film, "Willy and Myrian," documents the break-up up a young working-class couple with four children. Benavente is a professor in the Center for Latin American Studies at the University of Chicago.­
The Obseroer 
Maureen McFadden,anchorwoman for WNDU will speak at Saint Mary's on "Women in Television" tonight at 6:45 in the Holy Cross Parlor. The talk is sponsored by the Communication Club and all are invited. -The Obseroer 
Enrollment of international students 
at Notre Dame increased nine percent this semester while nationally the growth rate has been declining since 1980. There are 375 graduate and undergraduate students from 64 foreign countries at­tending classes this semester. Among the 256 graduate students are 32 completing studies in chemistry, 30 in physics, 26 in electrical engineering, 24 in the graduate business program, 21 in mathema­tics and 19 in economics. Others came to Notre Dame ro receive degrees in government, theology, law and American Studies, as well as several other areas ofstudy. India again leads all foreign countries in the number ofstudents with 52 in attendance, plus 13 from neigh­boring Pakistan and five from Bangladesh. There are 23 students from the People's Republic ofChina on campus and 21 from Taiwan, Republic of China. Others represent several Central and South American countries and several European nations, including Poland and Yugoslavia. -The Obseroer 


Weather 
Mostly cloudyand mild today and tonight with a 30 percent chance of showers. The highs will be in the upper 50s and the lows will be in the lower 40s. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 50s. -AP 

Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce Design Assistant ................. Caroline Belin Layout Staff....................... Mark Weimholt Typesetters ..........Jennifer Bigott, Kathryn Humm News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor ..............................)ane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor ..................Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout-.............. Byron Stevens Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Cindy Boyle Fea(Ures Copy Editor ....... Marikris Dalum Features Layout..................... Sharon Houk ND Day Editor: .................. Donna Gavigan SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design ............. Suzanne LaCroix, Mary Creadon, Anna Fur leigh Photographer........................ Chris McLean 

Time to break out the eggnog, Master(~ard and aluminum trees 
The election season unfortunately is not the only long, dragged-out time ofyear. • 
Look around, especially in places like the Saint Mary's bookstore. Do you catch yourself humming "White Christmas" while the leaves are still on the trees? Have you been sleeping with visions ofsugarplums after long midterm study sessions? 
That's it, you've caught the disease which seems to infect more and more people every year -Let's Celebrate Early and Beat the Christmas Shopping Rush. 
Actually, you can't blame this phenomenon on the average consumer, who is usually about as eager to begin Christmas shopping as he or she is to study for finals. No, it is businesses and stores who are convincing us The Season is upon us once again and that we can't wait two months for good cheer. 
The Christmas season begins earlier and earlier each year. The summer is the traditional time for magazines to offer articles like "Knit Your Christmas Presents this Year," and "Bake Your Way to a Merry Christmas." 
Record companies start may be the only place to go for your shopping, espe­cially if you an; a Saint Mary's or Notre Dame student and lucky enough to have a final Dec. 19. Everyone knows when it's five days before Christmas and the stores have been stocked for two months, you aren't going to find anything once you finally get home. 


But take heart. Anticipating this as always, the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame bookstores have something for everyone on your shopping list. Being the loyal alumnus he probably is, Dad would love yet another shamrock tie, and Mom will go wild over a needlepoint of LeMans Hall. For 
hawking mail order Grandma and Grandpa, Christmas albums such as there's always the latest "Jim Nabors sings Christmas Notre Dame Chorale album. favorites," and "Celebrate Of course, there's still Christmas with Roger Whit­time to do a little shopping if taker," just in time for you're heading home for holiday gift-giving. Thanksgiving. Thankgiving 
With early fall, you can . is such a forgotten holiday save time by pre-ordering anyway now. To most your Christmas cards. And people, it signals the begin­planning a holiday wardrobe ning of the legitimate is just a phone call away with Christmas s~ason. For stu­department store Christmas dents, it's time to lug those catalogs. What about decorations and Christmas trees? There are aluminum trees back to 
showrooms full of pretty aluminum trees in all shapes and sizes. 
By Halloween, the Christmas season is in full swing. Candy canes and chocolate bells are the perfect trick­or-treat candy. And why not save time and money by sending the kids around dressed like Santa? 
Now we are entering the last pre-pre Christmas stretch. The weeks between Halloween and Thanksgiv­ing are the last times stores hold the pretense of "shopping early and saving money." Most stores now are fully decked out with '\\\reaths, etc. The SMC bookstore has given up and gone all out-cards, decora­tions, candy, wrapping paper, you name it. 
Ofcourse, the first official shopping day ofthe season is the day after Thanksgiving, and you'd better be out there enjoying it, the media tells us. Chicago news sta­tions go so far as to send reporters out on Michigan Avenue and State Street to intt:rview shoppers, while retailers give their predictiom. of the year'~ holiday sales figures. 
Ofcourse, ifyou are a college student, the bookstore school. Poor Thanksgiving just gets lost in the rush of pre-holiday cheer. 

So before you view your first snowflake, before the first Christmas light goes up, before that first carton of eggnog hits the shelves, get out to the stores. You don't have much more time to shop early and beat the rush. After all, how much can you accomplish with only 44 days until The Big One? 

AMERICAN 

~ CANCER
~
, SOCIETY~ 

How you live may save your life. 



YOU CAN'T 
and no legitimate speed read1ng course can prom1se that you'll finish novels fastN than aspeed1ng bullet' But you can Increase your read1ng speed up to f1ve times Without sacnfic1ng comprehension. 
Our Breakthrough Rapid Reading pro­gram can help you read textbooks. mai•. JOurnals. novels-anything faster & more efficiently If that sounds good to you. call us 





~~~~ 
TEST PRE~AATION SPeCIALISTS SINCE '1938 
SOUTH BEND·~••••sAREA 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272·4135 
WITH BRANCHES IN INDIAN...POUS ANO BLOOMINGTON In New "'1:rt Stale Stanley H Kaplan t:aucauonal Cenler Ltd 

'Ihe~Observer­

lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observeris published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1984 -page 3 

Actress Ullmann will speak as part of Performing Arts lecture series 

Special to The Observer 
Uv Ullmann, critically acclaimed Scandinavian actress of both stage and films, author of the best seller Changing, and now committed to social causes including Goodwill Ambassador work for UNICEF, will appear at Saint Mary's on Wednes­day, Nov. 14. 
As the third offering in this year's Saint Mary's Performing Arts series, Ullmann will lecture in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 p.m. She will also ­participate in a prayer vigil on campus to begin the annual Oxfam Fast for World Harvest the next day. 
The Norwegian-born Ullmann studied drama in England before be­coming a member of several reper­tory theatres in Norway. Later she attracted the attention of lngmar Bergman and became his favorite 

Actress Liv Ullmann will speak at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin 
actress, appearing in 12 of his films, 

Auditorium on Nov. 14 at 8 p.m. The internationally acclaimed 
including "Scenes From a Marriage," 

entertainer will also participate in a prayer service to begin the 
"Face to Face" and "Autumn 

annual Oxfam Fast for World Harvest on Nov. 15. 
Sonata." Among her American films are "Lost Horizon," and "The Ab­dication," in which she portrayed Queen Christina of 17th century Sweden. 

Ullmann made her New York stage debut in a Joseph Papp/Shakespeare Festival revival of "A Doll's House" in 1975. In 1979 she passed another milestone· star­ring in her first Broadway musical, "I Remember Mama." Her first U.S. film was "Prisoner Without a Name · Cell Without a Number," co-starring Roy Scheider. She has completed an Australian film with Jeremy Irons based on Henrik Ibsen's "The Wild Duck," and Sigrid Undset's "Jenny," filmed in Norway and Rome. 
Her autobiographical book, Changing, translated into 24 Ian­guages, depicts the trials of being a woman, an actress and a mother. Her new book, Choices, will be pub­lished by Knopf this month. 
The new direction in Ullmann's life began in 1980 when she became involved with fundraising activities for the International Rescue Com­mittee, an organization that sends relief to refugees around the world. "Because of my work with IRC, UNI­CEF approached me about becom­ing Goodwill Ambassador, and agreed. I felt it was time for me to give something back to a world that had given me so much," Ullmann said. Ullmann has visited UNICEF· assisted programs in Thailand, Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka and also has made field trips to three of the drought· and famine-wracked • countries of Eastern Africa -Somalia, Ethiopia and Djibouti. In 1982 she visited Haiti and the Dominican Republic and in 1983 the Philippines, Colombia and Ecuador. 
Currently she is assisting UNICEF to increase public awareness of the critical problems in many of these areas and the urgent need for gov­ernment and private contributions to help expand UNICEF's work for the benfit ofchildren and mothers. 

Research aimed at controlling cancer underway at ND lab 
S~clal to The Observer 
The development of a promising new agent that selectively dissolves blood clots in heart attack patients and research aimed at controlling the spread of cancer throughout the body arc underway in a new biotechnology venture at Notre Dame. 
With money from Alfred Roach, chairman of the board of Til Indus­tries, Inc., in Copiague, N.Y., Ameri­can Biogenetic Sciences, Inc., has been established with laboratory facilties located adjacent to the Reynicrs Germfree Ufe Building at the northern edge of the campus. 
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the University's Lobund Laboratory and president of the company, said sepa­rate laboratories and new personnel have been assembled for the re­search effort. Because of an agree­ment allowing the University to accrue benefits from any patents or licenses that might result from the company's work, Pollard said Roach's funding Is the first at Notre Dame to support research, its over­head costs and eventually provide a means ofself-support. 
The company's first priority, Pol­lard explained, is the development of a therapeutic agent as a result of basic research that has been con­ducted at Notre Dame for several years. Substances now being stuaied for potential human use are tissue plasminogen activators, a naturally occurring class of enzymes in the body's tissues that dissolve blood 
I 
clots without evidence ofdamage to the patient. 
Tissue plasminogen activators are one of two basic types of activators produced in the body. Their poten­tial value for use in a new approach to the treatment of blood clots Is In their ability to transform plas­minogen, a normal blood compo­nent, into an enzyme that targets and deiitroys blood clots. "These sub­stances have the unique advantage of homing in on a clot and destroy­ing it," Pollard said. A method has also been found to produce the enzymes in large amounts, he added. Those most likely to benefit from their therapeutic use are victims of blood clots in the heart, lungs, brain and legs. 
Unlike the bacterial enzyme strep-

Compete for Professional Positions 
With the Foreign Service and the Department of State 
ARCHITECTS ENGINEERS PHYSICISTS BUDGET/FISCAL SPECIALISTS ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SPECIALISTS GENERAL SERVICES SPECIALISTS PERSONNEL SPECIALISTS 
Degree and Oral E~amination Required 
Interested students within nine months of graduation may apply. In addition, all applicants must be U.S. Citizens and at least 21 years of age. 
Send resume or SF-171 to: 
Larry Daniele · Recruitment Division 
U.S. Department of State P.O. Box 9653 
Rosslyn Station Arlington, VA 22209 


An Equal Opportunity Employer 
toklnase, which has been heralded for its use In destroying clots in heart attack victims, tissue plasminogen · activators specifically attack the blood clot without affecting any other part of the blQod system and apparently cause no allergic reac­
tions or other side effects. 
Although research at Notre Dame 
has already demonstrated tissue 
plasminogen activators' abilities to 
destroy blood clots In seven species 
of animals, including humans, Pol­
lard pointed out that refinements 
are needed before the substances 
can be used extensively in humans. 
"We need to purify, characterize and 
apply them for use as a therapeutic 
agent. We need to know how long 
they will remain effective (in the 
body) and how much to Inject," he 
explained. "We also have to know 
Let US do your shipping: 
U.P.S. EMERY PARCEL POST 
SHIPPING ETC. 
University Center, Grape Rd. Adjacent to Macri's Dell 
how the body produces them under normal circumstances and how to increase their production In the body." 
Another facet of the company's work, Pollard said, is focusing upon metastasis, the mechanism by which cancerous tumors spread In the body. Although Pollard's past re­search has established model sys­tems for the spread of prostate, breast and intestinal cancers, cur­rent studies are attempting to deter­mine why the initial tumors are attracted to specific target organs in the body. 
Citing a specific example, Pollard said breast cancer frequently spreads to the bones. Cancer patients, he added, often die not from the effects of the original tumor, but because it has spread to and grown in other organs such as the liver and lungs. "We are trying to find a way to interfere with the pas­sage of these tumors through the body and their attachments to the various organs. If we can find a way to stop this, it wlll be of tremendous benefit to cancer victims." 
ENGLISH MAJORS ARE WELL VERSED IN DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
Get two free Cokes" with
Two Free anypiua. 
One ooupon per piua.
Cokes~ 
Fast, Free Delivery"' Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend Phone: 277·2151 
Expires in one week. 
JTC NA 12612650 

~~~~~~~~~~~· 19640om•nosPLZza Inc 
I 

The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1984 -page 4 The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1984 -page 5 


World reacts to Reagan reelection 



Hey Mate! 
you've decided to go on, to complete your education, but you don't know where the money's going to come frotn, here's a possible solution. 
Gripes

The Army College Fund. 
continued/rom page I 

Here's how It works. You qualify to train In a skill you'd like to learn, one that entitles you to the Army College 
Sienkiewicz. The sour water in 

Fund. Then each month you put aside some of your Army 
Howard Hall and the possibility of salary. Just like a savings account. Except the government 
the presence of asbestos in several matches your savings 5 for 1 ormore. 
• other halls including Howard are 

In two years, you could have $15,200 for college. Your Army Recruiter has a booklet that explains all about Army College Fund. 
Pick one up. 
SGTJones 234·4187 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 


news agency of Soviet-allied Czec­
hoslovakia was more direct. 
"There is a danger that after the 
elections, Reagan and his govern­
ment will even intensify this strategy 
of talking about peace on the one 
hand and pursuing the arms race on 
the other because they will not have 
to pay attention to anybody," said 
the agency, CTK. 

Millions around the world stayed 
up late or rose early to tune in to 
reports of the Republican presiden­
tiallandslide in the United States. 
J\ffierican tourists and expatriates, and other Parisians packed Harry's New York Bar for its traditional soiree of election-night vote­counting. 
American embassies in dozens of capitals sponsored election parties to track the results from home. 
Outside the embassy in Manila, 100 demonstrators burned effigies of Reagan and Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos and called for an end to U.S. economic aid to the aut­horitarian Marcos government. 
two complaints presently being in­vestigated by OBUD. David Step­henitsh, OBUD program coordinator, says all complaints received are researched and com­plaintees will receive phone calls or letters in response. 
Similar "Gripe Nights" will alter­nate monthly between the North and South Dining Halls. In addition, OBUD sponsors student forums during which guest speakers, usually those under heavy criticism, talk with the students. Although last month's guest speaker was William Hickey, director of food services, turnout was poor. Says Sienkiewicz, "It's hard to know if students are The Reagan re-election also met 
with disapproval among anti­
nuclearactivists in Western Europe. 
Outside the U.S. embassy in Lon­
don, as l,SOO guests arrived for the 
all-night election party, I00 
protesters staged a torchlight vigil 
for nuclear disarmament. 
The American election results mean "in all probability ... four more years of reckless armament and overt threats of war," said Anne Borgmann, a spokeswoman for the anti-NATO greens' parliamentary faction in West Germany. 
But West German Chancellor Hel­mut Kohl, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and other leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organi· zation, in their congratulatory messages, expressed optimism for progress on settling major interna­tional issues in a second Reagan term. 
Italy's defense minister, former Prime Minister Giovanni Spadolini, called the Reagan triumph "a good omen." 
serious about their dining hall com­plaints since 23 of the complaints we received last night concerned the dining halls despite the forum." 
Today, Norman Muller, director ofSt. Michael's Laundry Services will be speaking in LaFortune Student Center at 7 p.m. Sienkiewicz again is hoping for a strong turnout since: many of the: complaints received by OBUD concern the quality of the laundry service. 
But for those who are still skepti­cal about possible results, in the words ofReuvers, "Ifenough people: complain about something often enough, something will usually be done about it." 

'rhc rip-I\),ninq r.on\cdy '>hl'". rhdf "·iii knock vou out ot vour .'>cat.! 
"'Second City' is brilliant." ··Subtly &Superbly funny!·· 
-TII'\E 1'\AGAZINE -NEW' YORK POST 

Touring Company 


Suicide 
continuedfrom page 1 
them." The center also urges callers to seek counseling on a regular basis. 
Suicide among people between 15 and 24 has reached epidemic proportions, becoming the second largest killer of teens behind acci­dents. 

Soviets 
continuedfrom page 1 
were transporting combat planes to Nicaraguan ports, and accused the Reagan administration of laying the groundwork for direct U.S. military intervention in Nicaragua. The San­dinistas have been fighting for three years against CIA-backed rebels who have at times used U.S.-supplied 
WE HIRE VETERANS PART-TIME. 
Your service, skill, no matter what service you were in, could be very useful in the Army Reserve. You11 find the Army Reserve in places other ser­vices don't have reserve units. And, because Ar­my Reserve is larger, there are usually more openings available. 
An E-5 with 4 years' military experience can earn more than '$1, 946 per year, serving one week-end per month and two weeks per year at a local Reserve unit. Plus retirement benefits and other fringes. 
See if your service skill matches an Army Reserve need now. Call us or stop by. SGT Messner of Sgt Simmons 234-4187 
ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Although no one factor can ac­count for the huge increase in the: number of teen suicides, increased drug use and emphasis on competi· tion have contributed to the number of teen suicides. 
To stop this increase, Dr. Patrick Utz, director of Notre Dame's Coun­seling and Psychological Services Center, recommends "we learn to treat people as valuable. It (suicide) ,starts at home when kids don't feel ,accepted and loved." 
light planes to attack targets inside , ~ Nicaragua. ,,
Reagan said he would consider 
,
the Sandinistas obtaining MiGs a 
,
serious matter. "We have informed ,them that for them to bring some­,thing that is absolutely unnecessary 
~ 
to them -these high-performance crafts in here -indicates that they are contemplating being a threat to their neighbors here in the Americas," he said. 

JDhe~~-needsyou.The news department Is accepting applications for 
Copy Editor 

For more Information contact Dan, Sarah or Anne at 239·5313. Application• are due Thur1day 1t 5 p.m. 
' 

WE'LL HELP GET YOU THE MONEY TO KEEP ON GROWING. 
If you're finishing up your first two years of college and 
The re-elected Ronald Reagan was burned in effigy yesterday in Manila, was the toast-of-the-town at Harry's bar in Paris, and was urged by one world leader after another to dedi­cate his second term to ending the arms race. 
If Reagan dreams of a place in his­tory, commented the prestigious French daily Le Monae, "he ought to dream of being a man of reconcilia­tion rather than the impetus for the Cold War." 
Among the congratulatory messages and editorial comments from around the world, the reaction most keenly awaited was the Krem­lin's. 
"Esteemed Mr. President," said the telegram from the Soviet leader­ship, "please accept congratulations on your re-election.... It is to be hoped that the coming years will be marked by a turn for the better in relations between our countries." 
If Moscow's initial statements were relatively subdued, the official 

COMING TO NOTRE DAME· Nov. 10, 8 p.m., Washington Hall TICKETS available at SAB Record Store • $5.00 

------------------------~--------~----------------------------------------------------------------------. 



View~_o_i_n_t________
Th_ur-sda-y,-No-ve-mb-er_s_,19-84_p_ag-e6 
The grave threat nucle.ar weapons pose 
Nuclear weapons present a grave threat to mankind and civilization. No one disputes this point. Disputes concerning nuclear weapons arise when various proposals for eliminating the nuclear threat are considered. Idealists propose tremendous political and moral 
Peter S. Bowen 
guest column 
changes as the method to best eliminate the nuclear threat. Realists propose nuclear weap­ons agreements to reduce the nuclear threat. There are problems with both approaches. 
The idealists argue that vast political changes are justified due to the new and radi­cally different type threat that nuclear weap­ons pose to mankind. They believe that if the people of the earth just realize how large the nuclear threat is, some kind of tremendous moral and political transformation will occur. This in turn will result somehow in the com­plete elimination ofnuclear weapons. But nu­clear weapons cannot be wished away. 
Man has discovered the technology that makes the nuclear threat possible and cannot 
undiscover it. Attempts to even limit the spread ofthis technology are proving fruitless as more and more nations direct their re­sources toward the development of "the bomb." Even if nuclear weapons were eliminated completely from the face of the earth, how long would it take for them to reap­pear? No country could take the chance that an opponent possessed a nuclear weapon. Mere suspicion that a foe possessed or was building aweapon would cause a new arms race. 
The moral conversion that is being pro­posed is unlikely to cause such a political ef­fect that nuclear weapons would be forever eliminated. The horrors of World War I caused a period of tremendous philosophical and moral reflection. There were all sorts of movements to ban war. The Kellogg-Briand Pact was signed during this time outlawing war forever. Nations from all over the world signed it. How long did it have any real effect? What usually happens in the end is that evil leaders like Hitler, Stalin and Mussolini use the good intentions of these anti-war people against them. The people who desire so much to prevent war soon find themselves in a war Even if a widespread spiritual conversion took place, by what mechanism do the idealists 

propose to convert this into real effect with respect to the Soviets and Chinese? 1be ideallsts must realize that their proposals lack any possibility of realization, that nuclear weapons simply cannot be wished away. Keeping the nuclear threat in the forefront of our mind at all times, as Hogan proposes, will not solve the problem; realistic policies are what is ne·eded. 
More realistic people propose nuclear arms agreements. But there is a big problem with arms agreements. As nuclear weapons proliferatt:, it will become progressively more difficult to find agreements that all nuclear na­tions will ratify. Furthermore, agreements will never eliminate or really reduce the threat. The need for deterrence will prevent any na­tion from reducing their nuclear weapons levels below the point at which they can do unacceptable damage to their opponents. Arms agreements will also become less verifiable as nations develop silo second fire capabilities, small midget missiles and cruise missiles. The answer is not to attempt to prevent the development of destabilizing weapo11s, lor their development and employ­ment cannot be stopped. There is another an­swer. 
Mankind has been faced throughout history 
with destabilizing weapons. The longbow, the musket, the rifle and the machine gun are ex­amples of destabilizing weapons. There is a usual pattern of response to these develop­ments. First, there is an attempt to ban or limit the weapon. When this fails, a defensive coun­termeasure that reduces or neutralizes the threat is developed. An excellent example of this is the development ofthe tank to counter the threat ofthe machine gun. 
If we don't blow ourselves up first, some­one will develop effective countermeasures to ICBMs, SLBMs, cruise missiles, and the rest. It is inevitable. We should devote ourselves to the development ofthe countermeasures that will reduce the nuclear threat and, at the same time, pursue those agreements that will reduce tensions and the likelihood of nuclear war. lbis is the way that the nuclear threat will be eliminated in the end. We can spend our time wishing nukes away, prolonging the amount of time that we live in the threat of nuclear war. Or we can get moving and work to develop those things that will eliminate or reduce the threat ofworldwide devastation. I prefer to get moving. 
PeterS. Bowen Is a junior In the Program ofLiberal Studies atNotre Dame. 

A guide to coping with Rep~blican Pomposity 
George walked into my room Tuesday night; he was visibly shaken. 
"Have you seen the returns," he lamented. "My God, what are we going to do?" 
George was upset because he is a registered Democrat. Being the only Democrat in an otherwise unanimously Republican section can have its trying moments, even in non-
John Neblo 
outside, looking in 
election years. But this is an election year. In fact this was election d_ay, and George knew what that meant for him. Tuesday night's landslide meant that Wednesday would be a long day for George, especially since lam­pooning Democrats had recently replaced ridiculing Gerry Faust as the most popular form ofintelligent conversation on campus. 
"There'll be no end to their gloating, you know." 
"Relax, calm down," I advised. 

"Calm down! How can you say that in light of the returns? Don't you realize the abuse we'll be subjected to, not to mention the abuse this nation will be subjected to for the next four years?" 
He did have a point. Civil rights, women's rights, human rights, virtually all rights except The Right was bound to suffer. Then there was world hunger, social justice, the environment and nuclear annihilation to worry about. Yet all ofthese problems, for the time being, paled against the prospect of having to live with hoards of self-satisfied, self-congratulating, self-serving (anything but self-effacing) Republicans convinced that they had just received a popular mandate (to go with their .divine mandate) for school prayer, social dar­winism and nuclear Russian roulette. 
Fortunately, I am ready for them. Anticipat­ing that a big victory would raise Republican vainglory to never-before-seen heights, I spent the last few weeks preparing a small handbook ofadvice to help fellow Democrats and otherwise disaffected or disenfranchised citizens in dealing with Republican bombast. Modestly entitled, A Simple Guide to Coping with Republican Pomposity, the guide ex­amines the different forms of pompous and otherwise annoying behavior in which Republicans are likely to engage and then details tht: most effective means for dealing with them. 

The pamphlet divides Republican behavior into four easily identifiable categories (Blue­Blood, Pathological Republicanism, Reagan Idolatry and Naive Republicanism) and outlines an appropriate response for each form of behavior. Blue-bloods, for example, are the smallest, most easily dealt with group. Normally characterized by an absent-minded hauteur, blue-bloods are likely to develop an overt baronial disdain towards Democrats fol­lowing tht: Reagan victory. Fortunately, this group·can also be quickiy silenced by pointing out, in a ddiciously ironic twist, the suddenly 
popular nature of their party. 

The patlwlogical Republican, on the other hand, is a far more difficult animal to tame. This pathetic creature can usually be found walking about t):le campus dressed in olive­drab, sporting closely cropped hair, and wearing mirrored sunglasses. He reads National Review, watches Call to Glory and is a chartered member of the NRA and the Moral Majority. He is a particularly vociferous, though barely intelligible critic, ofDemocrats and democracy in general. Unfortunately, be­cause of his potentially dangerous nature, I cannot discuss specific counter-measures here. 
The Reagan idolators are the largest and most insufferable of the four groups. Not true Republicans, the idolator is actually a political groupie who perceives Mr. Reagan as the presidential incarnation of john Wayne. Reagan idolators, however, are best character­ized by their all-pervading sense of personal mediocrity and a consequent propensity form hero. worship. 
Finally, some voters, after carefully examin­ing the issues and looking into their hearts, somehow come to the conclusion that Republicanism will promote the best interests ofthe nation. These poor souls are not annoy­ing because oftheir pomposity but, rather, be­cause of a pathetically naive belief in the justness of their cause. Pat Boone, Roger Staubach, Steve Garvey and Marie Osmond will, with the rest of this group, spend all day Wednesday beaming contentedly, confident that they have done the right thing. Though this group would never think of intentionally offending anyone, Democrats risk nausea if they should come into contact with this group too soon after the election. 
john Neblo is a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
P.O.BoxQ 

Holy Cross responds to calendar's critics 
Dear Editor: 
Regarding the letter from the "Concerned Representatives ofFarley Hall," I would like to respond to the unfounded accusations made against the production of the "Women of Notre Dame calendar," sponsored by Holy Cross Hall. 
First, the women who wrote the letter misquoted me in saying that our "effort would acknowledge the female students who have contributed mqst to Notre Dame." The article read that the women would be "selected on the basis of appearance, poise and contribu­tions to the University." Involvement in ex­tracurricular activities was a criterion In our selection, but it was only one criterion. Our main objective was to choose a group of wo­men who represented all Notre Dame wo­men, not simply the presidents of clubs and organizations. Our selections were made not just on beauty, and not just on contributions but on a wide range of criteria that we hope represents all Notre Dame women. 
Furthermore, what gives the authors of this letter the right to claim that women In our calendar are not "well-rounded students who actively participate in the Notre Dame com­munity?" Every woman who initially was invited to apply for the calendar were all deserving to be included in a "Women of Notre Dame Calendar." Any woman accepted into this university has achie\ed something few women can. The majority of applications we received were filled with "legitimate ex­tracurricular activities," including all the wo­men who will be featured in the calendar. If including the co-captain of the women's ten­nis team, an executive coordinator ofstudent government and a volunteer at the Logan Cen­ter and with the Big Sister Program con­stitutes a "false commitment" to the women of Notre Dame, then what is the definition of "legitimate extracurricular activities?" 
The claim that an indirect attack was made on last year's Farley-Walsh "Men of Notre Dame Calendar" is a blatant lie. I made no comment criticizing last year's calendar, and the original article printed inThe Observer did not even mention the "Men of Notre Dame Calendar." 
Finally, I ask the authors of the letter not to call themselves "Concerned Representatives ofFarley Hall" because they represent nobody but themselves. Many Farley residents have expressed their support of the Holy Cross calendar, including Farley's representative on the Women's Advisory Council. In fact, before I finished reading the letter I received a call from another "concerned" resident of Farley Hall who assured me that the letter did not reflect the opinions ofthe majority ofhall resi­dents. 
Holy Cross Hall is sincere in its effort to produce a calendar that will represent and honor the women ofNotre Dame. We are also sincere in our effort to assist the YWCA Wo­men's Shelter of South Bend, to which fifty percent ofour profits will be donated. 

And-perhaps a lesson in Christianity is owed to these few voices who have assumed the role of judge and jury for the "Women of Notre Dame Calendar" selections. 
Georl!,e]orda1l General Chairman Women ofNotre Dame Calendar 

Apologizes to all for not dt~bating democrat 
Dear Editor· 

I would like to use this public forum to apologize sincerely for not showing up at the debate that was scheduled for Thursday night, Nov. 1. You don't know how badly I kel about letting Paul Komyatte, the election task force and the Democratic Party down. I have only myself to blame and request immediate censure by The Observer, my teachers and my fellow students. I guess I really blew it this time. 
I know some of you believe I cho~e not to debate because it was poorly organized -be­cause questions and a format were never dis­cussed, much less agreed upon. Well, l for one am making no excuses; I should have shown up anyway. And, even though I told one of Komyatte's representatives two days before the debate that I wo~ld only participate if questions and a format were immediately ar­ranged, I proceeded to take my phone off the hook and hide out in a Motel 6 in LaPorte, Indiana for 48 hours so I wouldn't have to face Komyatte. I was wrong, and I feel sick about the whole incident. 
As I sit at my dimly lit desk in a quiet corner of Dillon Hall, my mind wanders to the ob­vious questions. Why did I do it? How could I have behaved so irrationally and irrespon­sibly? The only real excuse I have -not that I am making any excuses -is that, as Komyatte so eloquently pointed out, my "knees were wobbly." So advanced and severe was this condition that, up until five minutes after the debate was scheduled to end, I was unable to walk. The only explanation for this is that ever since I was a young man I have had a fear of five-foot five-inch liberals wearing soccer­style haircuts and army jackets. My doctor calls this condition "pinko-phobia," and I thought I had it licked freshman year when I forced myseif to sit in LaFortune five straight days watching 62 consecutive showings of Tbe Cbtna Syndrome. I guess I was wrong and I apologize. 
I would like to send my condolences to Komyatte for the sound thrashing his can­didate took on Tuesday, Nov. 6. Believe me, I know how it feels to be embarrassed. Heck, everyone knows how much I embarrassed myseifby wimping out on the debate. 
Tom Farnan Representative ND College Republicans 

"ie~P-~O_i_n_t~-----------------------------------------Th--ur_s_da_y_,_N_ov_e_m_b_e_r_s_,I_9_B_4___P_ag_e_7_ 



Something must be done to stop terrorism now 
During the past week and a half, the assas­sination of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi has dominated the international news scene. Her murder by two of her own bodyguards has sparked widespread rioting, looting and sectarian warfare between mem­bers ofrival religous factions. Her funeral was attended by crowds estimated to number 
John Perez 
just wondering 
over one million persons. The political future of India remains up In the air as Gandhi's son, who succeeded her as Prime Minister, struggles to bring his shattered country under control. 
This type ofincident, unfortunately, is not a rarity anymore. It seems that almost every week one learns of yet another politically­motivated murder or assassination attempt. During the last month alone, the world has witnessed numerous atrocities. The Rev.Jerzy Poplduszko, a Catholic priest who was an out­spoken opponent of Poland's Communist regime and a supporter of the banned Solidarity trade union, was kidnapped from his car on a highway 100 miles from Warsaw on Oct. 19. His tortured body was retrieved from the bottom of a river a few days ago. Three veteran members of the Polish security forces were arrested and charged with the crime, but the identity of whomever ordered the killing remains unknown. 
Another recent attack, this time by Irish Re­publican Army terrorists, caused the bombing deaths of several British government officials who were attending a Labor Party platform meeting. The killer's intended target, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, escaped shaken but unharmed by the blast. The attack culminated a month-long explosion (no pun intended) of terrorist activity by the radical IRA. 
Two past incidents of politically-motivated crime have recently resurfaced in the world press: the May 13, 1981 shooting ofPopeJohn Paul and the August 21, 1983 slaying of Philippine opposition leader Benigno Aquino. Regarding the attempt on the Pope's life, Ital­ian authorities have recently released a report stating that ''it must be held as certain that a plot existed to kill the Pope." The 1,243-page document, a summary of the case prepared over the past three years by government prosecutors, was accompanied by an indict­ment ordering four Turks and three Bul­garians to stand trial on a charge ofconspiring to murder the Pope. Although the author of the assassination plot remains unknown as of now, an Italian magistrate commented, off­the-record, his belief that the Soviet KGB, act­ing through its Bulgarian counterpart, planned the attack and provided the neces­sary funds, weapons and training. 
In the Philippines, an investigative commit­tee convened by embattled President Ferdinand Marcos concluded that Aquino was killed not by a Communist agitator, as the gov­ernment claimed, but was the victim of a "carefully plotted military conspiracy." Gen­eral Fabian Ver, President Marcos' cousin, was named as the primary author ofthe plot. Mass rioting and demonstrations calling for Marcos' resignation accompanied release of the com­mittee's findings. 

Knowing full well that terrorists, whether espousing a pet cause or carrying out the or­ders of unfriendly foreign powers, are all too inclined to advance their ends by the pull ofa trigger or the planting of a bomb, why isn't more done -to combat their activities? Aren't the world's leaders worth protecting? 
The overwhelming majority of terrorist groups are supported, covertly or overtly, by the intelligence services of various countries. Obviously, no nation will admit that it is aiding and abetting murderers. A few (for in­stance, the U.S. with respect to its involve­ment in El Salvador) will claim that they are merely "assisting freedom fighters," or some­thing to that effect. Would we be happy if some country announced that they were sup­porting terrorist "freedom fighters" in the U.S.? I doubt it. 
It obviously would be impossible, not to mention ridiculous, to supply every potential terrorist target with bulletproof vests, bombproof cars and round-the-clock bodyguards. Likewise, it would be equally impossible to get the sponsors of terrorism, assuming they would admit it, to sit down at the bargaining table and work out and agree to halt their backing. What, therefore, can be done to stop the terrorist onslaught? 
The key to stopping terrorism is threefold. First, the claims put forward by terrorists as justification for their misdeeds should be evaluated by an Impartial international body. Ifsuch a group found merit in a claim, it would recommend to the appropriate nation a sug­gested course of action to remedy the situa­tion. Therefore, no justification for terrorism would exist. Second, increased controls on the international military arms market should be imposed in order to dry up the terrorist's weapons supply. Fimilly, military action to "mop up" remaining terrorists after imple­menting the preceding two actions should be undertaken. Again, this should be undertaken by a multinational force. 
Is the preceding proposed approach to combating terrorism simplistic? Most definitely. Is there a chance that any aspect of this plan will ever see the light of day and be implemented? It's not too likely. Would many people find it offensive? Absolutely. However, considering the rapid proliferation ofterrorist activity in recent times, it's something to think about. One thing is certain. Something must be done -and quickly. 
john Perez is a junior accounting major at 
Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint colum­
nist. 

The Observer would like to present jim Borgman, a unique and excitingpolitical cartoonist -one sure to makeyou laugh. 
Borgman combines keen in­sight, distinctive humor and im­aginative artwork to produce sharp commentaries. 
We hope you enjoy some ofhis recent cartoons and watch for more in the future. 
-Viewpoint 


The Observer Editorial Boar;d Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed!lor-1n-Ch1ef . ... ... Bob Vonderhetde Business Manager. . . . .... Dave Taictet Managing Editor . ...... Mark Worscheh Controller . . .. Maripat Horne ..... Sarah Hamtlton Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor .. News Ed1tor ..... ... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . ... Jeff O"Neill
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily Systems Manager. . . . . . Kevm Williams
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary"s Editor .. . Anne Monastyrskt 
Production Manager. . Chris Bowler
accurately and as obJectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the optnton Sports Editor.... Mtchael Sullivan Viewpomt Editor ... Dave Grote Project Manager . . Amy Stephan
of a ma)Ortty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the lnstde Column present the views of thetr authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Ed1tor . ... Mary Healy communtty, and the free expression of varying opintons on campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor. . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 



Accent 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
Beyond the shadow of the Gold 
Taking the plunge into the 'real' world 
Also, DeBoer has found that living offcampus can be less expensive

by Margaret McCabe 
than University room and board.

assistantfeatures editor 
She suggests that those consider­
ing the big change make the move 

B
eyond the shadow of the was disappointed to find out there with friends. "It's different than Golden Dome, out from under­was not a space available in a dorm being in a dorm where there are neath the observations ofrectors this semester and "maybe" was the always people around for company and R.A.'s, yet not too far from best I could expect for next semes­and conversation, but ofcourse you where the quads end, there exists a ter. But with Notre Dame as my don't miss these things when it's realm in which section meetings do choice, I had no other options but late and you want to go to sleep." not exist and where dining halls are to plan, look for a place to live, and Security, DeBoer believes, should not the primary source ofsus­get used to the new idea ofliving be considered when moving off tenance. This unique and curious away from an authoritative figure. campus, especially by females. But dimension is commonly referred to None of this was as difficult, other than these minor qualms, asO.C. ... however, as getting my parents DeBoer and her roommate Cassie 
According to Elizabeth used to the idea that I'd somehow Boyle have no complaints. They Wajszczuk from the Notre Dame survive and be happy offcampus share expenses and take turns doing Off-Campus Housing Office, there while they continued to argue, "the chores like washing dishes. Al­are 1,441 University undergradu­best part ofcollege is being on the though they hold the 19th and 20th ates living O.C. ( 17 ofwhich are campus and soaking up the atmo­places on the waiting list, the two freshmen living with relatives or sphere." agree that when their numbers guardians in the area). This number Bill Stoll, a sophomore transfer come up they will decline. "This is represents 19 percent of the total student, reflects a common feeling home to us now", they explain. undergraduate population, a consi­among transfers, "the most difficult Dave Grote, a senior and a former derable portion, although less than part ofbeing O.C. is not being a part Flanner resident, reflects many of at most schools. of normal campus life. You feel these sentiments in regard to his 
The phrase "off-campus" has alienated from it. Also because new residence in an off-campus been on the minds ofmany since you're not in a dorm, you can't get house. "Freshmen year it was fine last spring's dawn ofthe alchohol to know people really well." and I liked it in the dorm-it was policy. Whether moving there or While transfers are a minority of home," explains Grote. "But mon: just partying there, O.C. is adding a the student population living off and more restrictions were made new dimension to Notre Dame and campus, they do create·a strong and it wasn't the same." By senior Saint Mary's life. demand for on-campus housing, a year, Grote decided that living on 
Contrary to popular belief, the demand the housing office thought campus put more restriction~ on reasons for living away from the alchohol policy might reduce him than his parents did. "I already campus can't be summed up in a this year. "I expected tons to move have a mom and dad," he com­desire for parties and beer. These off," says Evelyn Reinebold, direc­ments. Off-campus life gives Grote may be part of the fringe benefits tor ofStudent Housing, "but there more control ofhis life. "I like the that some find in the social freedom was only a slight increase in the feeling ofleaving school each day ofO.C.life, but this "party animal" move offcampus this year.'' and going to my own place, home." offcampus with such events as such as leases, rent, electric and impression that many have of those To combat the waiting lists Because the number ofthose formals and happy hours. To keep water bills, groceries, cooking, and living out in the real world is a little Reinebold notes, "We're almost living off campus represents a sig­people informed, he publishes an transportation costs. overbearing. There are many other inviting the students to move off nificant number of the student off-campus news letrer, The Unob­To help alleviate some ofthe aspects to life away from the Dome campus by returning their room body, efforts are being made to served. apprehensions students face in (some more, and some less appeal­deposit to them if they choose to do unite off-campus students and in­Talklng about moving off campus considering the move offcampus, ing than beer) that are too often so. In the past, the deposit was tegrate them more into campus life. is a long step away from actually Student Body President Rob Ber­forgotten. kept." There is an off-campus representa­doing it. The first could be done in tino has made tentative plans to 
The fact that not all those off The majority of those who have tive in the student senate, and in anger after a run-in with an R.A., in lmld an Off-Campus Awareness campus are there by choice is made the plunge from dorm secur­September, senior Doug Honeywell boredom on a Saturday night, or in Week early next semester, at the ironic considering the number of ity to "life in the big city," are happy was made the first off-campus rep­disgust at the lunch table. The time students start to think about exasperated people who want to about the move. "I love it," says resentative to the Hall Presidents' second requires serious thought next year. break out ofthe dorm scene. In the Laurie DeBoer, a senior living at Council. According to Honeywell, and consideration. There are ques­"The week will be designed to student housing office, there are in Notre Dame Apartments. "The "this was done to provide a voice tioning parents to confront, apart­make students aware of what's fact two lists, one of 156 males and extra living space is great and i outlet and a basis for information ments and houses to be involved in living off campus," says the other of 110 females, all waiting enjoy the independence arid re­for off-campus people.'' Honeywell investigated, and section mates to Bertino. "There will be speakers to for a room on campus. sponsibilities ofcooking meals, is also responsible for planning say goodbye to ... not to mention explain things like leases, O.C. 
· As a transfer student this year, I cleaning and paying my own bills." activities to promote camaradery scary, real-life terms to be learned, housing options, and to answer 




Sacrificing security O.C. 
other.''

by Kathy Scarbeck 
Glen Terry, Director ofSecurity 

features staff writer at Notre Dame, gives off-campus students some safety tips. He too suggests walking in groups, taking 
T
ough living off campus may thought she had locked her door, · well-lit routes, and using the shuttleoffer many benefits to students, but apparently it didn't catch. 
as opposed to walking.

it also necessitates a more careful A difference in how she and her consideration ofon~·s own safety. friends commute to Notre Dame On-campus services include theRecently three Notre Dame has resulted from the occurrence. 
surveillance of the parking lot andseniors and six alumni were re­"Before we just used to have two the keeping ofa file concerningported to have been assaulted on girls walking to campus at night, but campus crimes that have beennearby South Bend Avenue. In now we have at least tour or five," reported. The security departmentAugust a Notre Dame junior, who she says. The victim describes living will also be offering students theasked not to be identified, received offcampus as being basically "safe" chance to store their bicycles at the a blow to the head after being but reports that her screen door stadium when football season is robbed ofher wallet not far from had recently been slit in an un­over. In addition to this, security isher residence at the Notre Dame successful attempt to gain entrance also in the process ofregisteringApartments. She and a friend were to the apartment. 

students' valuables such as stereoswaiting in a car for an acquaintance Another off-campus Notre Dame and bicycles.

to emerge from a local store when student reports having had her one ofthe assailants reportedly bicycle stolen from the front porch Terry warns against students grabbed the victim's wallet through of the house in which she is staying. carrying weapons ofany kind. the open window. The thiefwas However, she states that she doesn't "Most ofthe time the weapons then said to have opened the car worry too much about the house aren't in the right place at the right 
door, forced the victim from the being robbed. "I can't live in it like a time," he says, "Ifyou can talk fast car, and struck a blow to her head. fort. If they're going to steal, they'll and be a pleasant person, you can 
Being a transfer student, the steal," she says. The la<:k of diffuse the situation to some victim cites her unfamiliarity with animosity between neighbors, she degree. College students have the the area as a contributing factor in states, helps foster the cooperative­ability to be sharp witted and sharp the incident. She also says that she ness needed to "watch out for each tongued.'' 

Thursday, November 8, 1984 -page 8-9 


en Donte life in the big city 
Clogged sinks, bills and no R.A. to run to-it's all worth it 
campus? You go through the same your R.A. when you are having a 
by Scott Ebersol 

routine every day, you see the same problem with someone in the hall. people every day and usually in the There's more to life than crying
features staff writer 

F
same place at the same time, and over the closing offood sales. And you come home to your dorm there is certainly more to life than or years, off-campus students it's at. room, and it starts all over again. thinking for hours how to get have been labeled the rebels, the Now, I'm not talking about those Where's the variety, where's the around the new drinking policy or outsiders, the non-conformists. whose only reason for venturing freshness? parietals. Let's face it -it's been Imagine having to do your own out into the real world ofbills, Sure there are daily routines off done. And more to life you ask? laundry every now and then, having clogged sinks, and cleaning for campus, but at least you can make That's off campus. to cook, for everyone knows mom yourself is to get away from the up your mind how high you want Sure, you probably have to live a is supposed to do that over break, mean administration and its terrible the dishes to pile up, when to pull good distance from your sacred or having to sort out bills to see rules. Get back to reality. Real off­out the T.V. dinners, and when to golden dome. Sure, you just can't how in debt you really are. Give me campus life, although carefree and a snap the cap offyour Moosehead. bop over to the bookstore to buy a break: real life -is any Domer truly new experience for most, is not And I am glad I don't have some some Crest or a pen. Sure, you may 
ready to tackle such an impasse? without its difficulties and nerve­ludicrous alumni or avid freshman get bored with the same meals, but Okay, maybe you are right. It is racking moments. But nevertheless, blaring the fight song from his room what is the worst of two evils: beef 
nice having Florence come in every you have become the individual on football weekends, or that there stew in the dining hall or Ham­day to vacuum or to empty the who must decide -yes, folks, think arc not hourds ofpeople running burger Helper? Sure, it may end up trash, or old weird Harold around on your own for once -what action around yelling "We're number one" costing a little more. And sure, it to clean up your mess in the bath­must be taken. There is not a rector at the nine in the morning. Peace may take a little getting used to not 
room, or even that over-bearing or R.A. around to settle in-house and quiet, that's all I ask. I can deal having such a mundane routine as 
R.A. down the hall to inform you disputes, to make sure things get with who and what I want, when I you did on campus. And so what if things arc getting a little out ofhand done, or even to talk to. decide to deal with it, and in the there isn't ivy on every other build­for four in the morning. Then again, And for those who think that all manner I choose. It's up to me. ing you pass? But think about it: you may answer that this is "what we do when we come home from The truth is that I wouldn't move there is a certain comradery living Notre Dame is all about." Well, if class each day is start to drink up a back on campus ifl had the chance. offcampus · you are in it together. you want to be pampered like a storm, or that our diets merely Sure all that rah-rah stuff is nice for It could be seen as one big dorm, little puppy, living four mundane consist of Big Macs and pizza, or awhile, but enough is enough. Face but I am glad it's not. years on campus, go right ahead. that our "sacred" GPA's slowly fade it folks -there is more to life than But for those who realize that there away, let me set the record straight: Notre Dame. There's more to life 
Now, I'm not suggesting that this is more to life than section it's not true. But hasn't there come a than waking up in the morning 
real-world existence is right for 
meetings, worrying over breaking time in your Notre Dame career worrying if mommy or daddy will 
everyone, but maybe it's time to 
parietals, and what is hidden under when you wanted to get away from send you money for the screw­
look in the mirror. Maybe my living the secret sauce at the dining hall it all? I ask you: how can you pos­your-roomate next weekend. 
room is not as clean as yours.tonight, living off campus is where sibly escape while living on There's more to life than running to Maybe I don't get the mail until 
3:00 pm. Maybe there have been 
times when I wondered if I would go broke before Christmas. But questions that people have." Ber­
of his house on Navarre St. 
when I look back, it was worth tino will work closely with 
every minute of it. No big brother, lloneywdl on the idea of having 
no R.A., no rector, no mommy or off-campus workshops or open daddy -just me and the real world. houses in some of the O.C. student I may come out of this in Decem­residences during the week. ber a little scarred, but don't you Leaving campus may seem to think it's worth taking the risk to some as drastic as Linus giving up 
have a little responsibility and fun hi~ hlankt·t. Hut it doesn't make a 
on your own? After four years of on-campus Domer life, being out on
person any less a Notre Dame or your own will be a shock, and don't
Saint Mary's studt·nt. For the most try to deny it. Why not start now?
part, "off-~.:ampusites" ar1.: just get­Give it a try.
ting their toes wet by living on their own bdore they take: the: inevitible plunge aftt·r graduation. 
If you're ready to get rid of the blanket, start a.'kin~ questions. Once you get pa.~t the talking stages you'rt· on your way... ~ood luck, have: fun, and rt•member us for your first party! 
~· 
.-:. 
'"'"?-• 
' Y!~{,l. ' 
r 


I =--· 
---.., 
w., 
' 
·-­
Tide's In ... Dirt'$ Out 
if 
... tJ 
:,*'". 4
................ 

Chores, chores, chores . .. senior Kerry Barnett (above), sophomore John Kruger (top), and senior Diana Ochoa (right) perform household tasks that go along with off-campus living. Photos by Carol Gales 
Sports Briefs The ND Weightlifting Club will be having its third annual bench press meet this Saturday, Nov. 10, at•1 p.m. in the third-floor weight room in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone, including varsity athletes, who is interested may sign up in the weight room at the Rock or the ACC. An entrance fee of $2 will be charged to pay for awards. ­The Observer Basketball and hockey officialsare needed for the interhall season. Anyone interested should apply at the NVA office. -The Observer The men's volleyball club will be practicing today at 7 p.m. in the ACC pit. ­The Observer The NVA "Turkey Shoot" will be held Nov. 13 and 15. The team target-shooting competition is open to teams of two men and two women each. Equipment and supervision will be provided. The deadline to reserve a time at the NVA office is tomOtTow. -The Observer The ND basketball teams, both the men's and womeri's, will be having intrasquad games Sunday in the ACC. The women's game will begin at 6:30 p.m., and the men will follow at approximately 7:30p.m. Student tiCkets are on sale now for n at gate 10 ofthe ACC.-The Observer  •  I TI1ursday, November 8, 1984 ­page 10 BasketballA one-on-one basketball tournament is being sponsored by NVA. The tournament will have two divisions for men: those over six feet tall, and those shorter than six feet. Double elimi­ticket nation will be in effect after the second round. TI1e registration deadline at the NVA office is tomorrow. -The Observer distribution ' In NVA tennis play sophomores Tony Bevilacqua and Gina Farabaugh captured the mixed doubles title this week by today:defeating Bill Grojean and Colleen Moran, 6-2, 6-4, in the finals ofthe tournament. Bevilacqua and Farabaugh reached the finals by upset­ting defending champions Kevin O'Brien and Marilu Almeida, 6-1, 7-5, in the semifinals.-The Observer freshmen "Fitness Focus/' a monthly newsletter published by NVA, is now available. To be put on the mailing list, call NVA at 239-6100. Interested in a program of exercise and fitness? NVA's Century Club, a program in which you can set your own exercise goal, may be for you. For further information, contact NVAto receiv-e ------------------1newsletter and pledge card outlining the program. -The Observer Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third ·~ floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly.-The Observer ~--~tli..!~.!!!~___j  

The Obserr,er Notre Dame office. lo~atnl on the thtrd floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts c:lassified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts c:lassifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next·day c:las•ifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Char11,e is I 0 cents per five chara~·





Classifieds 
ters er day. 
I LOST MY PULSAR MAN'S WATCH FOR SALE: 6 Penn State GA's in a J<>hn Tyler at the Nazz·-Friday night 9pm­LAST FRIDAY IN THE ROCK'S WEIGHT block;Best Offer Call Eric 1528 -a great way to start the weekend (for CHANCE-TO-DANCE 
NOTICES FOR SALE
ROOM. IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE those who begin their weekend on CALL SAM AT 4665. I NEED IT !II! HELP!!INEED4GAPENNST. TICKETS Friday). Friday, November 9 $$$$$$CALL 4511 NOW! ....................,........................................... 10p.m. to I a.m . 
................................................................ 

loet brown alligator skin wallet a heelthy Two room efficiency, furnished, private ................................................................ IHATETHISI Chautauque S.llroom 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 

reward offered; please call 234-2275 If entrance, good neighborhood, utilities I NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR IHATETHISI you happened to run across it. ask for • paid 2n-3604/288-0955. PENN ST. CALL 4511 FOR$$ IHATETHISI FREE refreshments, OJ TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
P.C. I HAVE NO USE FOR THIS lyl )y STUFFII $1 Admission I DESPARATELY need 2 Penn St. GA's. HAPPY BIRTHDAY CUFF!
SALE· TECHNICS SL-B2 TURNTABLE &TYPING SERVICE 

Call Bill late 1521. sponsored by Howard, Badin, and Car­2n-t045 
PIONEER SK-90 (top of its fine) PORTA­

................................................................ BLE. CALL CHAD 1058 I clesparately need 4 Penn State tix.My roll Halls 
PICKUP AND DEUVEAY 

LOST SILVER CHAIN SENTIMENTAL NEED STUD TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL dad, uncle, and their friends will have my VALUE PLEASE CALL 1718 JIMAT1374. h<•ad if I don't get them.call Steph 3738 FOR SALE·-96" GOLD BROCADE ..................... ··································· 
TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-8117 NEED PENN ST GA'S. WILL PAY $ !! HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FRAN-ARE YOU FREE TONITE?
loet: gold ring between Zahm and Lewis SOFA, EXCELLENT CONDITION, $75; on Thurs. night. It has sentimental value if DRAFTING TABLE. $25; TWIN BEDS-­FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 M0-1H FRIDAY? SATURDAY? OKAY, OKAY,
PLEASE CAI..L AMY-291-9644 PRO-TYPE Over 14 YJ11. of experience. 
found call Kim 4205. COMPLETE, $15 EACH. CALL AFTER 8·11 pm FR-SA 8pm-1 am I'LL STOP "SMOTHERING" YOU,BUT I Computerized service. DiMertations, law IEED Penn. Tix or I'm dog meat. Help by 
ONLYHAVEACARUNTIL T-GIVING,I'M papers, student papers 2n-5833. 
5:30P.M. 259-3311. 

FOUND: Silver cross, on Stepan field be­:ailing Mike nt 1208 Wanna ride to Milwaukee this weekend?? RUNNING OUT OF$$ FOR DINNER,MY tween Stepan Center and Juniper Road Aellgloua Glfta In Stained Glull ................................................................ If so, call Kris 1331 ROOMMATES ARE GONE FOR THE 
on Saturday morning. Call 2045 and Individually handcrafted by The Trap· WEEKEND,AND I'M GETTING DIZZY
THIS IS AN APPEAL FOR PENN ST. TIX­-1 NEED 3 G.As CALL MIKE FLANNERY-SENIOR CLASS COCKTAIL PARTY! FROM THIS "REVOLVING
describe fully to claim. pistines. For me<e information, write 4061 Thursday, November 8, 9PM to 1 AM DOOR"THEOAY!!HI NANCY AND GET INTO A TOP LAW SCHOOL. 
Santa Rite Abbey, Box 97, Sonoita, name, addr-. school, year, major, or­At Colby's Saturday Night, lloet my favor­Arizona, 85637. ACC Monogram Room TINA!LOVE,LANCE IRWIN ganizational affiliation and position. Write Send for free information now. Indicate 
ite charcoal grey coal with light grey Tickets: $3.00 at the door 
stripes. It was from SFA, a reward will be COMMODORE COMPUTER SYSTEM Semi-formal Attire 
to: PASS (ProfMSionai/Graduate School Free Drinks from 9 to 11! O.ve and Kevin ... wonderful people

offered for ita return, and no questions will FOR SALE, INCLUDES COMMODORE Suite614, NY, NY 10005 be asked. If you know of ita whereabouts 64, 1541 DISK DRIVE, AND 1525 VIC PERSONALS OJ, Dancing, Food! whan It cornea to fixing machlnea andApplicants' Support Service), 80 Wall St., 
aiding helpleaa female typeaatt....

call Frances at 284-4241. PRINTER ·$450-CALL 1469. 21 ID Required SENIORS, Monogram Room Thursday Thanka guyalEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
SAF'E TO THRASHIll Night-Be there! !I
MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
The saga conhnues . .. and whal SYR will 
..................................r···························· 
she t>e esked to this weekend? 

Do you have a gripe about how your STRING BROKE NOW MY GLOVE'S 
TICKETS

laundry Is done?? Then, attend the GONE RED, KNIT LOST SOMEWHERE MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK SCHOLASTIC Magazine ...it's what Chester, just thought I'd say hello. I wasIN 'BRAR'S 2ND FLOOR PLEASEOMBUDSMAH CAMPUS UFE FORUM. 
Notre Dame reads. Coming November just sitting in my "office", and could almoet
HURRY MY HAND'S GETTING COLD IF Maria, 
tS. look into your window. Anne O'Malley FOUND, RETURN TO 104 LYONS OR Need Penn State tix-Student or G.A. Call Partegar-vous mon vln avec moi cette 
CALL 2922 THANKS! Fran2598 weekend? Nned extra money? St. Mary's Dining Hall 
OMBUDSMAN Pierre is :nterested in hiring Notre Dame and St. Tess Baby, givl' me a call to discuss the CAMPUS UFE FORUM LOST I I CAN'T BELIEVE I LOST IT ! Need Penn State G.A. tix to help Frank 
M1uy's studenls. Applications are nextfewweekends. You're too fun a gal toTHAT'S RIGHT I LOST MY GOLD and Judy (My mom and dad) celebrate available at the Dining Hall Office. go to an SYR with a blind. no-legged date. 
llr. Norman Muller CROSS PEN. IT MEANS MUCH TO ME. their anniversary. Call Maria 4174 
................................................................ Mellon
llltWtor, St.lllc:hatol'l L8unclry IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MIKE -2384. QUOTE OF THE NIGHT: GOOBER "Baaicsally it's like this .... " 
THANKS I need Penn Statetickels call Jim 2n-36t6 "'Since we're going to the Formal together, tdl me, Happy Birthday!!! Love you-Me 
what'• your last name, Careltner
Thui'8CIIy, November 8 

.p... ................................................................ Tha Wolf-Pup lea Night Owl!
7:00PM, New Orte.na Am I need a ride to Philadelphia for Thanks­

LaFortune Student Center IIY CONGRESSMAN -MY HERO -IIY
HELP! I CANT SEE! LOST:TAN PURSE giving. Will pay usual. Anne 284-5181 PENNSTATEIII
SUMMER EMPLOYER (I HOPEII) IS MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­

AT PULTE'S HALLOWEEN PARTY­
I desperately need two p..,n S-GA's. CONTENTS: EYEGLASSES, Please call Mary at 1333. 
COlliNG FOR THE PENN. STATE PAIGNS, •IAIL CAIIPAIGNS--6:30 
GAME.'PLEAS£ SEU liE AT LEAST P.M., WED., NOV. 7 AND REPEATED

RETAINER, CONTACT-VERY IMPOR­
Attandon ladlea ol P.W.I T ANTI IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT 
TWO GA TtX. I CAN ALSO THROW IN THURS., NOV. 8, 118 NIEUWLAND SCI­
Hey PARADOX: Good Luck on yourMary Healy, I love you (i think) Lei'S do ME AT 284-5074 ASAP SOliE PENN. STATE STUD TtX. THIS ENCE. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER ldfontify one of your own with the hints exam. Have fun with the SAINT This

MAN IS THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL IN­
something sometime below (all happened last Friday): Weekend. Enjoy the festivities BUT don'tTERESTED S·TUDENTS INVITED • 

................................................................ HOUSE PAO-UFE CAUCUS (I'll DES­
!letting a 68 in Mexican get TOO wasted. BARCLAY MAN 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO PERATE I HAD TO MENTION THAT), TYPING SO DO YOUR PART TO STAMP OUT IIAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­l'lay1ng thumper and calling "Illegal
WANTED ABORTION BY KEEPING THIS MAN PAIGNS, IIIAIL CAIIPAIGNS-6:30 Procedure" everytime CREPERIE FRANCAISE!! CREPERIE HAPPY. CAU (2n·7570) SAVE THE P.M., WED., NOV 7 AND REPEATED CALL: 287-5162 
"I hate you! I hate you! I hate you!" FRANCAISE!! CREPERIE FRANCAISE!! "Wait, what's my sign?" STOP BY FOR SOME DELICIOUS DES­
UNIIOANIIIIIII THURS., NOV. 8, 118 NIEUWLAND SCI­

Bunnies? I don't get it. .. SERT CREPES! FRIDAY NIGHT,9-7.
ENCE. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER "Why are you in the bushes, Choan?" BADIN HALL! 
wANiio;·.....o...sri.io!NT&"o;;···w: 
I Need It Bad!!!!! One Penn. St. ticket-stu­AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL IN­

MAJORS TO MEET WITH THE NOR· "Okay, Choan, RUN!" 
LOST/FOUND I 
dent or G.A. Please call Grace-3781 . TERESTED STUDENTS INVITED. 

THEAN TRUST BANK TO DISCUSS s;;;;k;·;·;·H·;;v·.··ii;~;~:·:;;;;~·~·ih~i·ij;;;
Zoom .... ShOifsl CAREER OPPOATUNmES IN COM­"You big crazy!" you were with Saturday night? Speaker 
Will pay top $for 5 Penn State GA 's (must I HEAR SMEGMOND IS GOING AFTER 

MERCIAL BANKING, TRUST AND 2:Yeh, the one you kept calling Kathy?
LOSTI LOSTI LOSTI be togather)Call Tiff 284-4342 69 THIS WEEIKEND. BE THERE. 
BANKING OPERATIONS, SUPEAVI· Speaker 3: Why was she slapping you111" GOLD HEARING-BONE SION, IIAAKmNG AND CUSTOMER Mi<:heal Froning: What do Little Boy Blue across the face, Ernie? Emie: Let's just
NECKLACE HELP! I NEED 4 GA'S FOR PENN Q: WHY DO 3-2 ENGINEERS LIVE OFF 
S£AVICE. WHEN: THURSDAY, NOV. 8, ESCHEW THE DELICACY, guys! 
and Maynard Ferguson have in common? 
EXTREME SENTliiENTAL VALUE! STATE -BIG BUCKS $$,CALL LARRY CAMPUS? A: SO THEY DON'T HAVE
11114, 7 • I P.II. WHERE: UNIVERSITY 
AddaY;soaml!
REWARD IF FOUND 1506 TO BE AFRAID AND LOOK OVER
CLUB, UPPER LOUNGE. WE ARE CAU11147 THEIR SHOUlDER WHEN THEY DROP 
LOOKING FORWARD TO TALKING 
A DEFINITION OF RELIEF: SEEING DEATH NOTICE: Here lies Mr. Eschew
PLEASEI PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 THEIR SOAP. 
WITHYOUI MCrNDALE BACK HOME IN MIN­The Delicacy. After a short but eventful life NESOTA FISHING AND GERALDINE he is being laid to rest by 4 certain fish 
................................................................ NEED 4 PENN ST TIX--AT LEAST 2 · Cathy,Mary Rose & Mariann, Kill the Nur­
FERRARO BACK HOME IN N.Y. BITCH­from Carroll (right,guys?)He will be
FOUND LADY'S WATCH 11/01 IN Need ride to Cleveland leaving on 11/21 .. GAS.DAVE 1753 OR STEVE 1695 sing Test! 
INCl CONGRATULATIONS ND/SMC deeply missed by some, but not all. Send FRONT OF CAVANAUGH CALL TOM WIH generously share eXjltiMM. If you COLLEGE REPUBLICANS REAGAN· condolences or flowers to Carroll 114. 
2466 can help, PLEASE call Mike at 1688. NEED PENN STATE GAa--6's, 4's, or Jaimie O'brien the stud BUSH '84 ON A JOB WELL DONE!!! 
pairs. Call Rob at 3305. 

································································ ATI&NTION ALL HEAVY PARTY-ERS!! 
LOST: A PAPER ON C.S. PEIRCE WAS ATIENTION THEODORE FLOUNDER BRETH (Mary Uz) NOLAND 
LOST ON TUES. LAST WEEK IN CUS­RIDE NEEDED TO FT. WAYNE FRI. BE A PAL! I NEED PENN STATE GA'S Pleue contact Usa the Wonderflsh im­EVA BAERLOCKER, BET YOU NEVER will be celebrating her 20th BIRTHDAYHING OR THEREABOUTS. PLEASE 11/9 LEAVE AROUND 12:30 CALl. OR STUD TIX.CALl KATHY 4344SMC. mediately! THOUGHT YOU'D GET A PERSONAL. 
(which was yesterday) this weekend. She 

CALL MIKE 287-8264 OR RETURN TO JOHN 2n-6559 HOPE YOUR DAY IS GOING GREAT will gladly accept any birthday kill888 but 
PHILOSOPHY DEPT. IF FOUND. IT IS Help!!Desperately n1eed 2 Stu tix for Penn lllce...nlce AND GETS BETTER. LOVE YA' would prefer a STRAWBERRY MAR·
OF EXTI\EME IMPORTANCE FOR MY Ride needed to St. Paui/Mpls. lor St.Call Patty at SMC5254 Join the "I love Myron" Fan Club. THESIS. Thanksgiving. Willing to leave early!! Ban the broom handle! ii;~ ..i~'i;;;~;~·;~'d~~~·;;;··;;;;;;~..~ih;;; GARITA or a LONG ISLAND ICE TEA. SHE LIKES TO CRAWL HOME ...... 
(Sunday or Monday) Call Maty at 2n-NEED 1 PENN ST tix.Piease. call !han that world-famous god of the Mid­2851. SMC5520 way. Douglas Haler. Please Peter •9si<e-Of! Today!! Whip up
~:c;s:r··;;j;;''t;;,ij;";;;;;··;;;;;;;;;··;;;y··i;;t 

Need extra money? St. Mary's Dining Hall Wanted: 5 Penn St. tix., some in grps. of 2. your favorite clish -It's sure to be a real EEEEEKIIIICEI Walsh Hall MORRISSEY HALL MEN ABUSE THEIR 
Mechanica of Solids Book. If you have in­Is interested In hiring Notre Dame and St. Call 288-9403. $$ Peter-pleaaer. Sewing Bee to follow in wtrere the fun never stops DATES formation or my book please call 232-Mary's students. Applications are 
418St. Ed's. 0912 and talk to John K. or leave a 
available at the Dining Hall Office. Need two PENN ST. G.A.a. Cell Tom at SELLING YOUR SOUL FOR A SONY?!! message. 
1580. ATIENTION GIRLS!I Would you like to IIAIL CAMPAIGNS 
WANTED: Ride or riders to Pittsburgh for • go to the best Christmas formal with the IIAIL CAMPAIGNS SUSIE HAPP IS GORGEOUS! 
~os:r;· ..H·;;....i.ic...cA'LcuL.A:rOfiii...i;; 

Thanksgiving. Leaving Mon. night, 11/19. IIY NAME IS VINNIE. moet handsome and exciting guy on IIAIL CAMPAIGNS 
FOUND CALL MICHELLE 1283. LOST: 

Call Usa at 2665 or Susie at 3425. There. now that the exciting stuff is out of campus? All you have to do Is send a wal­6:30P.M., WED., NOV 7 AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUSIE BABY! 
LADIES GOLD WRISTWATCH. IF 

the way, I think you should know that I let size photo of yourself and a brief REPEATED THURS., NOV. 8 IN 118 WELCOME TO THE REAL WORLDFOUNDCALLAIXA 1283, 
RIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI OR CINCIN­need two Penn State GA's, preferably description of your interesls to: Mike NIEUWLAND SCIENCE. PAUL LOVE, MARJORIE, TREY, PETRA, NATI AREA 11-9. WILLING TO RENT A before the game on the 17th. Call VINNIE Needs A Date, 219 Grace. REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACE­SARAH, AND JENNY 
Lost a silver SEIKO Dual-chronograph 

CAR IF NECESSARY. CALL MARY at2538. That's VINNIE. MENT SERVICES. ALL INTERESTED 
walch.lf found call Scott at 3281. 

JANE2674. KISSY KAT· 110U ARE MISSED STUDENTS INVITED. Happy Birthday Queef!! 
.........................................:···..................... 
-(' • r • '·-., • r •. r. "'· • 




--~----------------------­

The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1984 -page 11 
Notre Dame was, obviously, a great learning thing. That could have been
Captain 
a big factor In their decision here to memorabilia. We've had a number of players from Notre Dame play in the 

Stanford
NHL and' never got this kind of 

"I don't know much about them," he says. "We're a little ap­prehensive." 
Elder has little reason to be ap­prehensive about his offense, though, which has averaged almost fifteen points a game. Morris.'iey Is led by strong-armed quarterback Geoff Henry. Henry's favorite target has been tight end Steve Beerman who caught three touchdown passes in a game earlier this season. Nick Fiore, Morrissey's leading rusher, returns to the line-up this week after sitting out the Dillon game with an injury. Fiore's absence was hardly noticeable as back-ups Tom Barry and Dwayne Hicks picked up the slack. 
Stanford linebackers Bill jolley and Pete Sawin, along with defensive tackles Mark Worscheh and Chris Devito are the players Soha is count­ing on to shut down the high· powered Morrissey offense. 
Neither coach reports any major injuries but if there is an advantage, ~t belongs to Morrissey who played the regular season in the more com­petitive Parseghian division. Soha claims that his squad Is loose and ready to play. 
All are encouraged to come to Stepan Fields Sunday as the teams fight for a shot at the lnterhall crown. 
~fatMB.. (1115~ 
~mw. §JP(G)rrlc~ 
Urulimn1l~<d1~ ITm1~o 
Skydiving Instruction and Paraplane Flight instruction 
219-586-5580 ........ 219-586-2665 Ho•e 


TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

Call Chris at: 

234-8997 

***************** 
: MIAMIJEWBRY ·: it 1906Miami3.. it it it it TOP PRICE it 
it it 
-tc RINGS*DIAMONDS :
t GOLD*SILVER it 
it WATCHES it it • it Buy -Sell -Exchange it 
~ !
"?" OPENMONDAY·SATURDAY9-6 -yo. 
***************** 
All the New DIRECT SALE COMICS now available 

EVERY FRIDAY 12:00NOON 
Also, 1.OOO's of back issues! 
MICOMIX STORE 
1346 Mishawaka Ave. 

Ol)en 
7daysa week phone: 
11 :0Qam-9:00pm 234-1038 
continuedfrom page 12 
team and what he was looking for in a work ethic, how he wanted the leadership portrayed; I guess leader­ship through example Is the way I see it." 
Veteran centerman Darryl Sittler, who had captained the Maple Leafs while Poulin was growing up in Toronto, seemed to be the obvious choice to replace Clarke as captain. But then, right before the season began, Sittler was dispatched to Detroit In a trade.just as suddenly as Poulin had been switched from left wing to center the previous season, he was now captain. 
He was following in the footsteps of his boyhood idol. 
"It didn't really hit me until I put the 'C' on the first night," Poulin said. "The first home night when I put the jersey on and the 'C' was on was great. 
"Being a captain for two years at make me captain. 
"It is hard following Bobby, but I don't think any one person is ever going to replace him," continues Poulin. "Bobby Clarke was one of the great leaders in sport of all time. And I don't mean hockey. I mean sport ofall time." 
"Dave carries the work ethic on and off the ice," said Sator. "He earned the chance to he captain. He was our logical choice, and, with the trade ofSittler, the obvious choice." 
"He exudes leadership because of his personality," Smith said. "He's got a personality that just won't quit. He's exn::mely mature beyond his years and very personable. 
"I was talking with a friend of mine who coaches in Sweden, and he said that Dave captured the people over there two years ago. 
"It's amazing," continued Smith. "Last year I got about 20-25 letters from Philadelphia funs asking for some sort of Notre Dame 
response before. These people just wanted to somehow become a part of Dave and Notre Dame." , Becoming captain ofan NHL team In only one's second full season in the league is quite an accomplish· ment. So far this season, Poulin seems to be doing a very good job of leading the Flyers. Philadelphia had jumped out to a 7·3·2 record through last night and presently leads the always-tough Patrick divi· sion. 
Poulin may not have scored any goals against Minnesota on this night, but his leadership was clearly there. He kills penalties extensively for the Flyers, and against the North Stars he and his teammates were able to completely shut down the usually-potent Minnesota power play in four attempts. 
At one point in the game, Philadel­phia assistant coach E.). McGuire, sitting up in the press box, radios down to Sator on the Flyer bench, "Dave Poulin's definitely your man against Neal Broten." It is a high compliment, indeed, when your coach says that you are able to shut down one of the opposing team's top guns. 
Judging by past performance, there will be many more nights like this one for Dave Poulin. 

continuedfrom page 16 
champion of the Leahy division and Morrissey, the Parseghlan division titlist. Stanford, who lost in the championship game last year to Dil­lon, 21-6, will be playing for the first time in four weeks following byes in the last week of the regular season and the first round ofthe playoffs. 
After opening the season with a 3· 3 tie with Alumni and only managing another field goal--the second week;· the Stanford offense caught fire, scoring thirty three points in the next two games. Stanford coach Chris Soha praises the running at· tack, led by tailback Tony Dawson and fullback Jim Clevenger, for get· ting the offense untracked. 
The kicking game was crucial to Stanford's success early in the year as Dan O'Donnell's last second 38· yard field goal tied the Alumni game and his 35-yarder provided the mar­gin ofvictory against Zahm. 
Attempting to shut down the Stan­ford offense will be the Morrissey defense, which turned in a solid ef­fort last Sunday against Dillon. Mor­rissey coach Steve Elder is not quite sure what to expect. 
Student Activities Board 



RECORD STORE 
In LaFortune 
Stop by and check it out!I 




EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'IWlE EVERY 2 HOURS EVEilY DAY 
United Limo
~tiUIJl  
'­ lllf/1,  
>0844 McK,oley Hwv  O~e•Oid  ~fll ,I~IUIIIIIHII  
674-6993 255.. 3068 o• t~ll vou• lmel AQeol  .,, I'' Ill~"Jll1il  u~t'~ IIIII !IIIIWtll I !~­' . • '"'" HlllllIWIIIIilllllli\ •a fJilllllllllllllllr.ll111 \ hHIIIIIIIIItll II  

Senior Class Cocktail Party 
Thursday, November 8 9:00pm-1:DOom ACC Monogram Room Tickets: S3.00 at the door 
') 
Semi-formal Attire Free drinks from 9-11 DJ, Dancing, Food!! 21/D Required 

--gQowe~g {;o~ aQQ occagiottg'' 
Come in and Browse 

327 Lincolnway 232-3354' 
r.............................................................................................., 
Coming Soon 

from San Francisco 

THE BOBS 

i 
Dec 1, Saturday ! 
I §~ ~, ..~~I 
at... R 

li.IIIIIIIIIIIIHIIOIIIIIOIIIOIIIIiiiOI-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIII~J 
§ 
18 
I 
PRESENTS Lecture Series on China 8 
s ~ 8  November II Thursdey  Conlemporery Chinese Culture Peter Moody, Dept of Government  §§§  
~ §  November 211 Wednesday  TI•Jin l'rocjrwn OVerview  §8  
~  December 5  MllrTIIICJII end Family In Chine  ~  
~R~§  •-­ TI•Jin Fontl9f1LIIIMJIIII9tlll Institute"""'""--·  u  
6:30p.m.  0 ~  

0 
Satellite Room 242, O'Shaughnessy Hall 


IR IS 
~ 8 
EYERYOHE WELCOI1E 



~..r...o--...r...r...r...r...r..o-..o-.A)O""..o-...cl""...c:ooo"'~.J 
----~-~-~-------------­
The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1984 -page 12 

Poulin 
continuedjrompage 16 

gave Poulin a chance to further develop his playing skills. 
"Hockey suddenly became a job," recalls Poulin. "At school, the impor­tance is still on your education. Then, all ofa sudden in Sweden, it's a job and an opportunity to become a career. 

"Over there, I was all the scoring we had. I was basically told before the year started that I was going to be the leading scorer and I had no choice. (Sator) worked with me in­dividually a lot. There was a lot of pressure on me to score goals." 
"Dave really developed his defen­sive skills by playing on the larger surface in Sweden," said Sator. "I think that he is now a bonafide NHL player. It was just a matter of giving his talent a chance to blossom. Looking back now, Hartford is prob­ably gritting its teeth." 
Sator, who was doing some scout­ing for the Flyers, recommended Poulin to Philadelphia management when the Swedish season was over. He was given an amateur tryout and came back to the U.S. to play 16 games for the Maine Mariners of the American Hockey League, scoring seven goals and assisting on nine others. 
With two games left in the NHL regular season, Poulin got called up for a game in Toronto on April 2, 1983. In that game, played before his parents, friends and relatives at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto, Poulin scored two goals, on his first two shots, no less. 
The Flyers liked what they saw of Poulin and decided to keep him around for the playoffi;, which saw Philadelphia eliminated in three games by the New York Rangers. 
"I knew nothing about going up," said Poulin. "In fact, I hadn't even signed a professional contract yet. I was still on my amateur tryout offer. 
"It didn't even hit me what had happened until the season was over. It all happened so fast. Being that we were knocked out of the playoffi; in three games, I only got a chance to play five total games in the NHL." 
Poulin had much to think about that summer. He decided to stay in Philadelphia over the off-season as he and his wife had settled down there. He had no guarantee of making the Flyers team the follow­ing season, and he knew it. 

"It was a long summer, no ques­tion about it," Poulin remembers. "But I got a chance to work out with Clarkie, one ofthe bigger breaks you could have. He really helped me out a great deal. 
"I didn't think of anything but making the team the next year. I knew the position was there, and I knew it was there for the taking. The organization was maybe expecting that I was ready to play in the NHL and they were counting on me. From there, I just went out and played. I've always been an optimist and I never even considered what I would do if I didn't make it." 
Heading into training camp, the Flyers had six centers so Poulin was switched over to left wing, the posi­tion he had filled in at for the final five games of the previous season. But when two ofthose centers, Mark Taylor and Ron Flockhart, were traded to Pittsburgh and another, Tim Kerr, was moved to·right wing, Poulin became the Flyers' fourth center that quick. 

Quick is the right word, too. Sator, now a Philadelphia assistant, was big fan of Poulin's at center because of what he had seen in Sweden. He knew that center was Poulin's best position. 
"His greatest assets are his tre­mendous speed and his ability to break through holes," said Sator. "Those qualities best suit him to play center." 
Poulin not only made the Flyers that year, last season, but went on to set the Philadelphia record for most points in a season by a rookie, 76, breaking the mark of 75 previously held by Brian Propp. Further, he led all NHL rookies in plus/minus rating with a plus-31, game-winning goals with six and first goals with seven. Additionally, his 76 points was the second-highest rookie total. 

Centering the Flyers' most pro­ductive line, with Brian Propp on left wing and Kerr on the right side, Poulin was Philadelphia's third­leading goal scorer, turning on the red light 31 times. Everyone also knew by the end of that season that he was among the league's fastest skaters. 

Dave Poulin 

He had firmly established himself intheNHL. 
"He is a classy individual off the ice, who works like hell when he's playing," said Clarke of Poulin. "He has lots of talent. I always felt he could play. 
-''He;s been die best conditioned player in camp the last two years. He was able to take advantage ofthe op­portunity presented him. Some ofus are just late bloomers." 
Meanwhile, the relationship be­tween Poulin and Clarke, which had been fostered the previous summer in a gym, continued to grow. The two became good friends and the ageing center began to room with the hard-working rookie whenever the team went on the road. 
"We told Dave that he was welcome to work out witl1 us over the summer," said Clarkoe. "From there, we became real goodfriends." 
The ironic thing about the new­found friendship was that Poulin had idolized Clarke as a youngster be­cause of "his ability to work hard." He saw a lot of the player, and per­haps man, that he wanted to be within the person of Clarke. 
"Bobby Clarke always impressed Dave as a goin'-type player," said Smith. "He was not blessed with a lot of skills. He was a self-made player. This is what Dave Poulin is." 
The two spent a lot of time to­gether and the Poulins wen: even on vacation with the Clarkes when the Flyers' elder statesman decided to hang up his skates and become gen­eral manager. Perhaps this was a sign ofwhat was to come. 
Heading into this season, new Philadelphia head coach Mike Keenan knew that he needed to name a captain to replace Clarke, a difficult task, for sure. 
"In interviews with Mike Keenan during the summer, we talked a lot about what he wanted in a •captain," explains Poulin of how Keenan started the process. "Th4!n, they dressed different line-ups during the pre-season and there was a total of seven ofus that wore the 'C' over the course ofour exhibition games. 
"He talked a lot about how he 
wanted the captain to motivate the see CAPTAIN, page 11 

STUDY IN ENGLAND 
A single semester that will permanently change your way of thinking 

The Institute for American Universities in Canterbury offers a unique programme of demanding, personalised instruc­tion in liberal arts subjects. 
Try it. It'll permanently change your way of thinking. 
For information, write to the Institute for American Univer­sities, 73 Castle Street, Canterbury, CTl 2QD, or see your campus study-abroad advisor. 



' 

d--H-o.,•,..__ 


__GARDENs 
-
_Witt l(niglytu nftit£ atastlt 

'----Men's Hair Styling at its finest minutes from campus 
--·-· ---­

$ 
272-0312 277-1691 
Haircut shampoo 

'i-f'i_~-~ l'c:rran: Lane: 
blowdry


(SI. Rd. 25) 
Aero~~ trom Marlin's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 

SMC PerforrDing Arts Series is proud to present THE NATIONAL SHAKESPEARE COMPANY IN 
Tlae Two Gentlemen ofVerona 
Oloughlin Auditorium Friday. November 9 
8:00pm 

Ticket Information 284-4626 

The Observer Thursday, November 8, 1984 -page 13 
Getting more playing time 

Gray benefits from new aligntnent 

LOGAN CENTER ND/SMC Council for the Retarded needs volunteers for: FRIDAY'S DANCE ll/9 7:30-10pm SATURDAY'S ZOO TRIP 11/10 9am at Logan Center OTHER LOGANEVENTS 11/17 Logan goes to the FOOTBALL GAME 11/24 No Rec-Thanksgiving 12/1 Camera Rec 12/7 Carolling 12/8 Christmas Rec THANKS TO ALL OF THE VOLUNTEERS LASTWEEK-GOOD JOB! COME BACK!  


taking graduate courses in his final semester at Notre Dame. 
Gray's college career began In I980 where he was enrolled at Clemson and played on their . na­tional championship team as a fresh­man. He was named a member ofthe Freshman All-America Team selec­ted by The Football News for his ef­forts that season. Although the events on the field proved to be rather successful for Gray, it wasn't enough to keep him enrolled at Clemson. 
"At Clemson the people were more concerned with football than with school," says Gray. 
From Clemson, the Parade Prep All-American went to Holy Cross Junior College in South Bend for three semesters until he enrolled at Notre Dame in August, 1982. He has been very pleased with his transfer; Notre Dame has lived up to all of his expectations. 
"I came here (Notre Dame) for a better education," says Gray. "The people that I have met -the players, the coaches, and the administrators, I have the utmost respect for." 
In 1983 Gray earned a monogram as a reserve tight end, seeing action in all 11 regular-season games for the Irish. Not only was he active as a tight end, but he also made S8 specialty team appearences on both the field goal and extra point units. 
During the first part of the season Gray was used sparingly, primarily because of the outstanding play of first-string tight end Mark Bavaro. 
However, it was during the South Carolina game that the Irish first utilised their new doublc.Hight end formation in situations other than for short yardage on third or fourth down. This change in the Irish game plan has gave Gray a greater oppor­tunity to play. 
Gray responded to this additional playing time by catching seven passes in the last two games. 
"It's great to play," says Gray. "I'm going to do alii can to help the team win.'' 
The two-tight end offense that the Irish have employed in the last few games has improved the running game noticeably. 
"They (the double-tight end formations) spread out the defense more while helping the offense be­cause more things can be done from these sets," says Gray. "It also takes a great deal ofpressure offsome ofthe players in the backfield, like (Allen) Pinkett, because there Is more blocking with more places to run." 
With two games left, one against Penn State at Notre Dame Stadium in two weeks and one the week follow­ing against USC In the Los Angeles Colesium, the Irish still have the op­portunity to finish out the year with four consecutive victories against three top-20 teams. 
"We seem to get up for the big games, when our backs are to the wall," says Gray. "We still have at least two games left to prove our­selves." 
Face it,your learning years are not your prime earning years. But don't let that stop you from moving off campus. 
Through February 28,1985, you can fly anywhere Piedmont flies for halffare.To LA and New York. And to all kinds of hot spots and hometowns in between. 
\Vhats the catch?Well,you must be under 26and have avalid studentID. Read thefine print below for restrictions. 
Piedmont's 50%Off College Fare.More proof that our commitment to higher education is not just a lofty ideal. 
1PIEDII700Tr§.T#L/DES 
Ncm-n:jwulahle, rowu.l-tri/J rickets nuL~r he Jntrclu.L~ecl at lm~t sewn days /Jejorc mwcl. Nut ami/able all day Friday or SunJay after 1:ao Jnn. Holidi1y rmtd rcsrrictiom apply. Call )Ottr rrmd agent or us ar 1-8oo-251-5720. 
A t the University of Rochester's Graduate School of Management you can manage your career with a highly respected M.B.A. With our wide variety of financial aid and loan programs, you can manage your finances, too. So, take charge, and manage your way to a top quality management education. 
SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE 
Our representative will be at your placement ollice 
Nov. 15, 10:30 am-4:00 pm 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CALL TOLL FREE: 
From anywhere In the U.S. 1-800-621-0095 
outs1de N.Y. State call: . From within NY State call: 1-800-462-0073 Call toll free during these hours: Monday-Friday. 8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. Tuesday . . . 5:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Saturday . . .... 10:00 a.m. -2:00 p.m. 

THE UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT Rochester, NY 14627 
Any undergrad1111te major can quality you as an M.B.A. candidate. 
Flynn 

Ricky Gray, a fifth-year senior tight end for Notre Dame, has helped the Irish improve their offense in the last three games. Gray bas been getting more playing time lately as Notre Dame bas t-wployed its double-tight enrf alignment more often. 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
The last few weeks have been suc­cessful for many individuals on the Irish football team as well as for the team itself. The turnaround began against South Carolina, and contin­ued with road victories against LSU and Navy. The Irish were on the short side ofa 36-32 final against the Gamecocks, the conclusion of a three game losing streak at home. 
Although Notre Dame didn't win against South Carolina, some posi· tive things developed from the game. Not only did the Irish move the ball up and down the field well, but they also put some points on the scoreboard. This can be largely at· tributed to Notre Dame's new offen· sive formation, which uses two tight ends in situations other than short yardage. This new alignment has been successful largely because of the play oftight end Ricky Gray. 
Gray, a 6-4, 232-pound fifth-year senior, received his economics degree last May from the Cdllege of Arts and Letter!~ and is currently 

The Observer · Thursday, November 8, 1984 -page 14 





Hensler nears end of final season of volleyball 

By MARY SIEGER 

Sports Writer 
Good-bye is never easy to say, es­pecially when it may be forever. 
As the 1984 Notre Dame volley­ball season winds down, senior attacker Mary )o Hensler faces the painful task of bidding farewell to competetive volleyball. 
"It's over too soon," Hensler says. "There is so much excitement on the team about the future and not to be a part kind ofhurts." 
Hensler made her final home ap­pearance with the team in the ACC two weeks ago against the Univer­sity ofDayton. 

"The underclassmen gave me and Josie (Maternowski) roses," she recalls. "It was sad to play in the last game at home, but it didn't hit that much because there were still three weeks left in the season. Now I kind ofwish Michigan State was at home." 
Hensler came to Notre Dame four years ago after playing aggressive volleyball at Mother of Mercy High School in Cincinnati, Ohio. During her high school career, Hensler guided her squad to the state . runner-up slot in 1979 and to the state championship the following year. Later in 1980, herJunior Olym­pic team won a silver medal, prompting several top schools to take an interest her collegiate vol­leyball career. 

After careful consideration, Hensler decided to help build Notre Dame's budding program, turning down scholarships at Indiana Uni­versity, Northern Kentucky Univer­sity and Xavier University. 
"The program was poor when I first came here and I felt my skills were deteriorating," says Hensler. "But I was blessed to get the scholar­ship and I don't regret one minute. I've learned a lot from volleyball and Notre Dame." 
As the first two scholarship players in the program, Hensler and senior setter Josie Maternowski became the foundation ofthe volley­ball team. During her sophomore and junior years, Hensler served as co-captain for the Irish and was' named most valuable player by her teammates in 1981 and 1982. 
"They (Hensler and Mater­nowski) were the beginnings ofvol­leyball here," notes Irish Head Coach Art Lambert. "They made it work and they're the reasons why the program is in another stage of development." 
The 1984 season has been a roller 

OPEN Walk-Ins 143 Dixie Way South M-F: 9-8 Welcome Roseland-South Bend Sat: 8-5 
-ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS ­
Sales Career Opportunity 
We are beginning our search for several exception­al individuals for positions in sales and marketing with our Agency! 
Backgrounds In the following would find this posi­tion most rewarding and Interesting: BUSINESS, FINANCE, BANKING, MARKETING, ACCOUNTING & LAW. 
To familiarize you with the opportunities of a career in life insurance and financial services we are con­ducting introductory seminars in our offices on Mon­day, November 12 and Tuesday, November 13 at 10 
a.m. and 3p.m. each day. By appointment only! 
Colt Donna at 234-5600 to arrange an appointment. Attendance is limitedI 

108N. Main 800 JMS Bldg. South Bend, IN 46601 
E.O.E. MIF 
coaster ride for Hensler. After a sum­mer of intensive training, the 5-7 American Studies major returned for her senior year only to lose her start­ing position in the first year of Lam­bert's restructuring efforts. 
"I admit I didn't handle it well at first and it got into other parts of my life," she says. "I was so excited about volleyball in the spring and to have worked so hard over the sum­mer and then not to start was frustrating. I think it shows just how far the program has gone." 
While Hensler admits losing her starting status was disappointing, she claims she learned and grew more this year than in past seasons. 
"I'm glad the stepping stone was my senior year because I get a taste of where the program is going." 

Hensler changed positions in the Irish line-up earlier this season as Lambert tried to formulate the ideal combination for the young Notre Dame squad. After beginning as a setter, she found her place as an at­tacker. 
Hensler hopes to recover from the sprained ankle she sustained during last weekend's match against the University of North Carolina in the Pittsburgh Tournament in time for action in next weekend's North Star Conference Championship Tournament. Winning the Confer­ence Championship is the team's top goal this season and Hensler claims capturing the championship title will be the culmination of her four years playing for the Irish. 



Budweiser 
1hbbl 
Old Milwaukee 
1hbbl 
Budweiser 
CoseQuarts 
THE PEOPLE's CHOICE 
HAMM'S 
CASE 24 CANS 
WINDSOR CANADIAN 
1.75 L. 
KING'S CEILLAR VODKII 
1.75 L. 
KING'S CELLAR GIN 
1.75 L. 

4.0 LITER 
CARLO ROSSI 
6502 GRAPE RD. 200 N. MAIN MISHAWAKA ELKHART 277-7176 295-6310 

Hamms $2799 
1hbbl 

LiHie Kings $3299 
1hbbl 

Old Milwaukee $699 
Case Quarts 
$3299 $2799 
~ 
$999 

T0 day__________________..,..___
Th_u_r_sd..a_.r_._N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_s_,_l_9_8_4__P_a_g_e_l_s 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 




The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 44 Part of a 9 Homily: 29 Asia Minor 47 Apple and 50 Sacred 52 Journey 55 Portable race abbr. region pear picture 53 leprechaun shelter 1 Hindu god 45 Used a bus 10 "Daisy-" 30 Highly 48 Entreat land 57 Make a 5 Tares 
46 Health 11 Pilaster skilled 49 Assumed 51 Street choice , 10 Brewer's resort 12 Entrapment 31 Primary character sign 54 Cicatrix 58 Attempt 
mixture 48 Last king ploy color 14 Protection of Troy 13 Rabbit 32 Narrow 15 Concur 18 Corpulent inlet 
51 Least 

19 Later 33 Nightclub
16 Ancient 
lengthy 23 Area in a performer
Peruvian 
56 Lowest cost ship 35 -Moines 
17 Symbol of 
59 Medicinal 24 Red as_ 38 Haggard
stability 
plant 25 Clan symbol novel 26 Sheath 40 4-sided
20 Disc 
60 Establish 27 -out figure
playthings 
beyond (manage 41 Keen
21 Blaze 
question with diffl-43 Short­
22 Mistake 
61 Persia, culty) billed
23 lessen 
today 28 Satisfy a rails 25 Shoe tips 62 Yearnings thirst 46 Push 28 land of the 63 Sorts 
Tartars 64 Saucy Wednesday's Solution h::--t--1-­31 US philan­thropist DOWN 34 Eccentric 1 Esne 2 Stravinsky
36 Raison d'­3 "Venl,37 Exact 
vldi,-"

resemblance 4 Invites
38 Snlcker-­
5 Cracker 39 River In 6 He steals Scot. from nests 40 Scl-fl 7 Goddess vehicles of discord 42 lr. ballad, 8 Young ©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. "Mother-" socialite All Rights Reserved 
Tank McNamara 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds --A<'OV£!:. 11-\AI 11 ':§ 
~~~~~ &'ff:¥~~~ ~ 

The Far Side Gary Larsqo 
"Well, this shouldn't lost too long." 

Campus 
•Nov. 8 ·Nov. 15-Advance Reglstradon. 
•11
:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m.-Spanish Lunch, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Guadalupe Society ofSt. Stephen's Parish, S3. 

•4 
p.m. -Sem.lna1', "Dielectric Relaxation Times of Transient Species," Prof. Richard Fessenden, NO, Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. 

•4 
· 6p.m.-KelloggSem.lna1', "Charity With Effec­tiveness: The Contribution of Church Agricultural Programs to Rural Development of Zaire," Mutombo Mpanya of Zaire and Faculty Fellow, Room 131 Declo Hall. 

•4 
p.m. -Sem.lna1', "Vatican-American Relations 1940-1984," Rev. Gerald Fogarty, University ofVir­ginia, Memorial Library Lounge. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, '1n Vitro Models for Mutagenesis," Prof. Bernard Strauss, University of Chicago, Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Matbemadcal Colloquium , "Counterexample to a Conjecture of H. Hopf," Prof. Henry Wente, University of Toledo, Room 226CCMB. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Presentadon, "Conducting a Mail Campaign," For All Interested Students, Paul Reynolds, Asst. Director, Career & Placement Services, 118 Nieuwland, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Lecture Series on China, "Contemporary Chinese Culture," Peter Moody, Dept. of Government, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Foreign Studies Program. 

•6:30 
p.m. -lnformadonal Meedng, Year-in­Japan Program, Brownson Dining Hall, Sponsored by Foreign Studies Office, Language Dept. and Japan Club. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. & 12 a.m.-FUm, "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1. 

•7p.m.-Lecture, 
"Anschutz Ranch East-Finding and Defining a Giant Oil Field in the Thrust Belt," Jeffrey Lelek, Amoco Production Co., Denver, Room 101 Earth Sciences Building, Sponsored by Earth Sciences Dept. 

•
7 p.m. -ThursdayNight FUm Series , "House on 92nd Street," O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m.-FUm, "Love Story," Carroll Hall (SMC), Sponsored by Freshman Class, S1. 

•7 
p.m.-Campus Life Forum, Norman Muller, Director of St. Michael's Laundry , New Orleans Room , LaFortune, Sponsored by OBUD. 

•7 
· 9 p.m.-Presentadon!Recepdon, Northern Trust Company , For Interested Arts & Letters & Business Students , University Club, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 

•
7 p.m. -Club Meedng, American Lebanese Club, ISO Lounge, Basement of LaFortune, Sponsored by American Lebanese Club. 

•7p.m.-Lecture/Fllm/Dlscusslon, 
"Alternative & Critical Cultural Expressions Under Chile's Repressive Military Regime," Prof. David Benavente, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture&: Quesdon/Answer Dis­cussion, Career Night, Government Majors, Pat Pierce & Dick Brisbin, SMC, Parlour, Haggar Col­lege Center (SMC), Sponsored by SMC Govern­ment Club. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meedng, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Fellowship of Christian Athletes. 

•8 
p.m. -Crown-Minow Lecture , "The Ordina­tion of Women," Rabbis Gordon Tucker, Jewish Theological Seminary of America and David Feldman, Teaneck Jewish Center, NJ, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by lbeology Dept. 

•9 
p.m. · I a.m. -Senior Cocktail Party, ACC Monogram Room, $3. 


FRIDAY 
25~ BEERS!! Return ofthe 
D.J.-Kevin Bolin One Flew Over the 
Pink Panther 
~· .\. Cuckoo's Nest

THURSDAY 
DANCE VIDEOS 
9:15 ­
75~ Drafts 

-:~-c 7:00 
11:30
7:00 9:30 12:00
$110 Mixed 
Engineering Aud. $1.00 


-------~--­
lbursday, November 8, 1984 -page 16
S~orts 
Poulin makes it in the NUL with Philadelphia 
Former Notre Dame star replaces his idc>l as captain of Flyers in second pro season 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Editor 

BLOOMINGTON, Minn. ·It's 11 a.m. and members of the Philadelphia Flyers begin to straggle into Met Cen­ter for a light morning workout in preparation for the night's game with the Minnesota North Stars. 
This would be Philadelphia's seventh game of the young 1984-85 NHL season. As the Flyers take to the ice with a new coach, a handful of new faces and a new captain, the relative youth of this team immediately catches one's eye. These are no longer the "Broad Street Bullies" ofold. This is a new-look Flyers team. 
Philadelphia's legendary captain Bobby Clarke has now retired and moved upstairs to become general manager; leaving many observers to wonder who will fill the large void created by his departure. 
One guy knows he's sure going to try to do just that, replace a sporting legend, who also just happens to be a player he idolized in his younger years. 
Yet two years earlier, Philadelphia center Dave Poulin would have never dreamed he'd be the Flyers captain for this game, let alone be playing in the Na­tional Hockey League. 
Despite ranking as Notre Dame's fifth all-time leading scorer after four years of playing for the Irish, Poulin remained undrafted by the NHL. Now, a little over two years after graduating from Notre Dame, Poulin is at­tempting to fill the shoes of Clarke. 
Yes, Dave Poulin has come a long way from Notre Dame, but the road to Philadelphia hasn't been an easy one. In fact, it has included stops in Sweden a111d Maine. 
He came to Notre Dame in 1978 as a freshman. That first season, he scored a team-high 28 goal:s and 59 points. Slowed by meningitis his sophomor1e season, Poulin managed only 19 goals ·and 24 assists. 
His junior year, Poulin was named a captain of the team and went on to be the second-leading scorer for the Irish, tallying 35 points on 13 goals and 22 assists. 
But it was his senior season that really set Poulin apart. He led Notre Dame in scoring that year with 27 goals and 28 assists and was a finalist for the prestigous Hobey Baker Award, college hockey's version of the Heisman Trophy. Additionally, under his leadership, the Irish captured the championship of the famous Great Lakes Tournament, something Poulin says ranks among his fondest memories. 
In all, he ended up as Notre Dame's fifth all-time 
leading scorer. Still, the player Irish fans knew as 
"Chainsaw," because of the obvious refere-nce to a 
name-brand ofchainsaws, had not been drafted. 
"I really thought he should have been dralted," said 
17-year Notre Dame coach Charles "Lefty" Smith. "He 
had, and still has, great quickness and excellent an­
ticipation, hockey sense. He can start on a dime, stop on 
a dime and turn on a dime. The first three strides, he's as 
quick as any hockey player around." 
After graduation from Notre Dame in 1982 with a 
degree in marketing, Poulin got married to a girl from 
Saint Mary's. He had a job offer to work for Proctor & 
Gamble in Toronto, his hometown, as well as a chance 
for a free-agent tryout with the Hartford Whalers. 
He chose neither of the two options when an offer 
came to play in Sweden. That offer, made by preSent 


Dave Poulin as a player at Notre Dame 
Flyers assistant coach Ted Sator who was coaching the Rogle club in Sweden at the time, was not seen by Poulin as a way to the NHL. Instead, the offer took on a different light for him and his new bride. 
"We more or less just decided to go to Sweden as a sabbatical for one year before we settled down and worked," said Poulin. "I kept all the doors open at Proctor & Gamble. I fully intended to go back and work there up in Toronto, and Kim (his wife) planned to establish herself in business-up there, too. A paid honeymoon was all we looked at Sweden as." 
In Sweden, Poulin racked up 35 goals and 27 assists in 32 games for Rogle, a Division I club. More than that, the extra year ofplaying 
see POULIN, page 12 

Men's and women's interhall playoffs continue 
Top-seeded Sorin faces Howard; No.2 Stanford tackles Morrissey 
By BRIAN McCAR1HY 
Sports Writer 

The men's interhall football playoffs con­tinue this Sunday on Stepan Field as top­seeded Sorin battles Howard at 1 p.m., followed by Stanford vs. Morrissey at 2 p.m. The winners of these two games will meet a week from Sunday in Notre Dame Stadium for the interhall championship. 
The first game, between Sorin and Howard, presents a rematch ofthe last week of the reg­ular season when Sorin prevailed, 8-0. The Sorin offense, which has averaged 11 points a game, is centered on freshman tailback Sean Garrett. Garrett, who runs behind a strong line, has provided the big plays each week. 
However, after scoring five touchdowns in its first two games, the offense managed only a single score in its last two victories. In addi­tion, Sorin has not kicked an extra point or field goal all year. 
"It could hurt us in a close game," admitted Sorin coach Mike Conlin. "We haven't been able to get the passing game going, and the playing conditions were bad -it rained for both ofthose games." 
Despite these apparent shortcomings, Howard will be hard-pressed to keep Sorin out of the endzone. But the Howard defense, which shut out Zahm 7-0 last Sunday, may be up to the task. Defensive captain Tim Kottak and freshman Pat Clark each had two inter­ceptions on Sunday as Howard repeatedly frustrated Zahm's offense. 
Forcing turnovers could be a key to 
Howard's success this weekend because no 
team has been able to drive the ball against 
Sorin's defense all year. One ofthe big reasons 
behind this success is the dominating play of 
Sorin's defensive linemen and linebackers, 
which allow the· four defensive backs to play 
the pass almost exclusively. Sean Munster, J.P. 
Kress, K.J. Fhelan, Paul Bridenstine, along with 
Conlin, are the basis for the, so far, im­. penetrable defensive front. 
Howard, who has averaged six points in its 
five games, counters with quarterback Matt 
Kelty and tailback Don Antrobus, who scored 
the winning touchdown against Zahm. The 
kicking duties are handled byjoe Riehle, who 
booted a 30-yard field goal earlier this year. 
Not only must Howard and coach Steve 
johnston worry about unbeaten Sorin, but 
they must also overcome several injuries 
which have sidelined two linemen who play 
both offense and defense. Adding to .the prob­
lem are nagging injuries which will force 
other players to be at less than one hundred 
percent. 
One advantage Howard does have over 
Sorin is in playoff experience. Two years ago 
Howard played in the championship game 
and last year it won its second straight Rockne 
division title. Sorin finished second to Howard 
last year as it made the playoffs for the first 
time in years. 
The second contest fea.tures Stanford, the 
see STANFORD, page 11 

No,.l Pasquerilla East meets Lewis; Brt~en-Phillips will challenge Farley 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 

Even though the Fighting Irish football team won't be playing this Saturday, there will be plenty of exciting football action this weekend on the Notre Dame campus. The center of the excitement will be the women's interhall flag football semifinals. 
The action promises .to be furious as some of NO's top female football players square off under the lights at Cartier Field on Sunday night. Breen Phillips ( 4-2) takes on Farley ( 5-­
1) in the: first game at 7 p.m. The second game, at 8 JP.m., features defending-champion Pasquerilla East (7-0) against Lewis (3-3). 
Pasquerilla East is the heavy favorite to win the title again this year. They could have trou­ble though, if they take the deceptively-strong Lewis squad too lightly. Lewis finished at . 500, but they have the potential to win if they can achieve the consistency that has been lacking all year. 
A Lewis victory would be a tremendous up­set though, because P.E. appears to be very strong. P.E. is not only talented but also very experienced. They have a lot of good players who have performed well under playoff-pres­sure belfore. 
The P.E. team is very strong offensively, with captain jenny Yuhl leading the attack from her quarterback position. 
"Yuhl is the kind of girl that really knows how to play," says Head Coach juryJudd. 
On the defensive side, P.E. has standouts Kim Zerry and Nancy Fitzpatrick, who will try to control the Lewis offense. 
Lewis will have to stop P.E.'s powerful of­fense quickly if they are to have a chance of winning. IfP.E. gets its offense rolling early, it could be a long day for the Lewis players. 
The first game is a real toss-up. Breen­Phillips and Farley both have been very suc­cessful this year and the game w!ll probably come down to the wire. 
Breen-Phillips will depend heavily on its stingy defense to stop Farley cold: Katie Donohue, one of the best linebackers in the league, will attempt to hold the Farley offense at bay. B.P. hopes that quarterback Usa Ehrhardt can get some points on the board early and then let the defense handle the rest. 
"Our defense is very tough and if we can grab an early lead we should be able to come away with a victory," says middle linebacker Mary Eileen Kenney. · 
Farley, on the other hand, will be depend­ing very heavily on their powerful offense to score some points, knowing that B.P. does not have a high-powered offense. The key to the game, therefore, will be whether or not B.P.'s stingy defense is able to stop Farley's explo­sive offense. 
Both games should be extremely competi­tive and exciting. The winners will not have much time to celebrate their hard-fought vic­tories, though. They will have to prepare for the championship game which will. be played in Notre Dame Stadium on Sunday, Nov.l8. 





