Senate committees-page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 62 lill' indl'pt·mlnll ...lutknt Ill'\\ '>papl'r ...t-rnng 11otrt dame and ....unt 111ar~ ·.., 11JESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1984 

Hesburgh explains weapons statement 
By KEITH HARRISONJr. "Not since Galileo have we Asstst<ml News t:dttor succeeded in hringing science and religion together on such an impor­
Space weapons systems have no tant topic," Hesburgh said. hope of providing nuclear superior­'Inc statement does not make any ity or protection, said an interna­specific recommendations for arms tional conference of scientific and reductions, however. Heshurgh said rdigious leaders in a statement this was done on purpose. is~ued hy University President Fa­
"lhere are plenty ofprescriptionsther 'lheodore Heshurgh yesterday. 
around for this problem, and the 'Jht• so-called "Star Wars" weap­governments arc already aware of ons would not be I00 percent them," he said. "The first thing thateffeuive, flesburgh said, and so war­must he done, however, is to get inheads not destroyt·d hy the space the mood for negotiating. '!bat's our weapons could still cause, among first goal." 
other things, a nuclear winter. 
Since the five Soviet members ofA nuclear winter · the large tem­the conference all approved the perature drop caused as sunlight is statement, Hesburgh believes theblocked by dust and smoke from nu­Kremlin leaders also agree with theclear t·xplosions -would cause 
it.
"crop failures, unparalleled famine, ma~s starvation, and widespread un­He said that while the Americans controllahle epidemics," said the at the conference were not official statement. representatives of the U.S. govern­
'Ihe -~0-person conference, which ment, the. Soviets were almost surely included Heshurgh. astronomer sanctioned by the Russian govern­Carl Sagan and Rauld Sagdeev, the ment. head of the Soviet space program, "There's no such thing as an unof­recommended an improvement in ficial representative from the U.S.-Soviet relations in order to les­U.S.S.R.," Hesburgh added. sen the threat of nuclear disaster. Discussion and debate of the nu­
The conference's statement clear issue is the key to making prog­advised suhstantial reductions in nu­ress in arms reductions, Hesburgh clear weapons, because this "could said. have powerful and desirable psycho­
"As we reach out...as the cres­logical and political effects." 
cendo of concern grows higher andStressing the diversity of the higher, people will have to listen tomeeting, Hesburgh, in a press con­us," he said.
ference at the Center for Continuing Hesburgh compared the contin­Education, said members of "nearly ued existence ofthe arms race to the every major religious group" and longevity ofslavery in the U.S.
representatives from I 0 nations "People used to say we were
were in attendance. locked into slavery, that it was part
lhe unanimous approval given by of our economic system. But then
both scientists and religious leaders political and religious leaders got in­
will make the statement very power­volved.
ful, Heshurgh said. "It took 100 years to get rid of
'Jhe moral credihility of the religi­slavery, though. I don't think we'll
ous leaders and the highly accurate have I00 years to stop the arms race.
information of the scientists make I believe that either we will elimi­
this statement "a much stronger nate nuclear weapons, or they will
warning than either group alone eliminate us." 
could have madt·." 

Religion and business can mix, says executive 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI ence or attitudes. Later a person may News Staff be exposed to minor theft, improper expense accounts or other 
"One must learn how to succeed wrongdoings on a large-scale basis. in the business world without spiri­Foley believes a Christian should tually dying," said Dan Foley, a vice take responsibility and "chip away at presidcm of International Tele­wrong." phone and Telegraph, during last "One's first responsibility is to night's lecture at Saint Mary's Carroll himselfand the Lord." Hall. • Foley believes it is a Christian's 
"The issues are complex," said "duty to confront wrongdoing", Foley. He explained religious values even if it will entail personal risks. in the marketplace are not easily up­Foley said one should bring held. Many businessmen place their Christ's values into decision making. values only in the profits of the next If something is wrong it should be quarter. pointed out. "No job is worth losing 
For many people, "success is your honor for." more important than basic honesty," A Christian must maintain his or he said. Foley commented that many her values in a field where the race people wlll only work to enhance for profits has submerged others. By their own or the company's posi­maintainingone's values throughout tion. lhese people "see others as a business career a person will retain stepping stones" in their careers. the "privilege of following Christ," 
Aperson may experience tempta­according to Foley. tions away from their Christian In addition to being a vice presi­values early in their career, accor­dent, Foley is also director of em­ding ro Foley. For example, at job in· ployee relations, environment, terviews one may be tempted to lie 
see FOLEY, page 4
about such qualifications as experi­


\ 


The Oh~crvcr/Chahanya Panchal 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh committee, which included several representa­discusses a statement on the arms race released by tives from the Soviet Utliot~. The statemetJt was a global conference of religious and science released during a press Clmference at the Center leqders yesterday. Hesburgh was a member ofthe for Cot~tinuing Education. Story at left. 


Parietals changes under discussion at Board of Governance meeting 
ByANNE GALLAGHER hours until 1 I p.m. and the addition Mary Ann O'Donnell, director of StaffReporter ofexam-week hours. student activities, pointed out this During the upcoming week there won't he a change in policy, but a 
The Saint Mary's Board of Gover­will be a colHlt ofmales visiting Saint change in implementation. nance spent most of last night's Mary's dorms. Student government The board hopes such a change meeting discussing the potential will be meeting with the office of will enhance what parietal hours are parietals change. student affairs and residence life to set up to do; "to promote responsi-' 
According to the recent parietals discuss the issue. bility and mature behavior." survey which netted a near 50 per­"It's our feeling that if we do not Problems which could block the cent response more than 90 percent have the support of Sister Karol changes are that ofreduced security, 
favored an extension of the existing (director of student affairs) and cost, hindrance of academic pur­parietals hours. residence life, then I don't think we suits, and the view that the new Suggestions for change include should go through with it," said Lee 
see BOARD, page 4extending the weekday parietal Ann Franks, student body president. 


Board impressed with presentation 
By SARAH HAMILTON  The issue already has been placed  improve. However, It wa~ "not too  
News Editor  on the agenda for the executive  excited" about the idea ofan under­ 
meeting of the Board at Key Bis­ graduate club, as proposed by Doug  
Chairman of the Notre Dame  cayne, Fla., Bertino said that Carney  Wurth and his committee at the  
Board of Trustees Dr. Thomas Car­ informed him. The entire issue will  Nov. I 5 meeting, Bertino said.  
ney told Student Body President  be discussed, but "I think a lot of it  According to Bertino, because so  
Robert Bertino that the student gov­ comes down to the admissions  much money has been allocated for  
ernment's presentation at the recent  policy."  the renovation of LaFortune "they  
Board meeting "was the best  On the issue of the senior town­ (the Trustees) don't want to take a  
presentation they had ever been  houses, Bertino said the Board was  chance, I don't think."  
given by the students," said Bertino.  receptive of the idea, especially be­ LaFortune could be one solution,  
Members of student government  cause townhouses had been men­ Bertino said the board seemed to  
attended the Nov. 1 5 meeting of the  tioned in the PACE Report as a  think. The establishment of coffee  
Student Affairs Committee of the  housing alternative. "It's a business  shops located in different buildings  
Board of Trustees and made a two­ decision now," Bertino said.  across campus also is being consid­ 
and-a-half hour presentation which  The Board has recognized a need  ered. Bertino said one possible site is  
discussed the role of women at  for alternative housing and now  the Band Annex Building, once the  
Notre Dame, townhouses as alterna­ must determine the best way to  hand moves elsewhere.  
tive housing for seniors, and social  meet this need and weigh the finan­ The trustees have delegated the  
life at Notre Dame.  cial aspects of any plans, said Ber­ matter to Father David Tyson, vice  
The Board was particularly im­ tino. A full investigation will come  president for student affairs. Bertino  
pressed by the presentation on wo­ down to dollars and cents, he added.  expressed optimism toward the idea  
men at Notre Dame, Bertino said.  The board echoed student senti­ of coffee shops, and said he plans to  
"They (the Trustees) all thought  ment by admitting the social atmo­ meet with Tyson and place a student  
that was a very important issue."  sphere at Notre Dame must  in charge ofthe project.  

The Observer 

Tuesday, November 27, 1984-page 2 
f 
l ~ 


In Brief 
Household International's committee for 
Gifts to Higher Education has selected Saint Mary's College as the recipient of an unrestricted operating grant of $20,000. The grant, payable over a four-year period to Saint Mary's, recognizes the signif­icant contribution the College has made to increase student interest in economic issues through its undergraduate curriculum. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Innsbruck program 
elected julie Grantham, Todd Harding, Letitia O'Connell, George Perry and David Scheidler to the Student Council and Tripp Baltz was named captain ofthe Notre Dame basketball team at the Univer­sity of lnnsbruck. He will lead the team as they compete in the Tyrolean Championship games this year. Father Patrick Gaffney, as­sistant professor of Anthropology at Notre Dame, participated in a seminar in Salzberg, Austria and was entertained by the Notre Dame community in lnnsbruck. Gaffney is studying in Cairo, Egypt at pres­ent. -Tbe Observer 
Of Interest 
UNICEF Christmas cards, calendars, puzzles and gifts will be on sale in the Memorial library concourse today through Friday and Monday Dec. 3 through Friday Dec.l0 The items are for sale from 9:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. each day. The sale is sponsored by the Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. All proceeds go to helping needy children in developing nations around the world. Last year the sale raised more than S3,700.-The Observer 
Winter bicycle storage will take place today and tomorrowfrom 5 to 7 p.m. at Gate 14 ofthe stadium. All bicycles first must be registered at Lost and Found, 121 Administration Building. -
Tbe Observer 

Murray Weidenbaum, former chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, will discuss "The United Nations as a Regulator of Private Enterprise" tomorrow at noon in the Law School's Student Lounge. The lecture is sponsored by the ThomasJ. White Center on Law and Government. -The Observer 
An evening of warmth, color and merriment is promised as the Saint Mary's Department of Music presents the 12th annual Madrig~l Christmas Dinners, Dec. 4 and 5. The dinners will be held in the Hagger College Center Parlor. Seating will begin at 6:30p.m. and dinner will be served at 7. Tickets, at $12 per person, may be obtained at the Ticket Office, 284-4626, or by mail. Seating is limited, and tickets must be purchased in advance. Members of the court and Collegium Musicum, arrayed in colorful 16th century costumes, will recreate a yuletide celebration of the Renaissance period.-The Observer 

Weather 
It doesn't get much better than this, does it? A near 100 percent chance of rain and possibly a thundershower today. High in mid to upper 50s. A 60 percent chance of evening rain tonight. Then cloudy with flurries possible late at night. Much colder with a low near 30. Cloudy and cold with a 


chance of sprinkles or flurries tomorrow. High in the upper 30s. -AP 
The~Observer 
lbe Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Pre88. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor .............................. Tom Small Design Assistant ........................Anne Long Typesetters ................ Tracy, Tom, and Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Edltor ............................... John Heasly Sports Copy Editor ..........Theron Roberts Viewpoint Layout.................... Dave Grote ND Day Editor ........................ Barb Stevens SMC Day Editor ........................Shirley Ore Ad Design ................................ Susan O'Hara Photographer............... Chaltanya Panchal 


U.S. Bishops' Pastoral Letter promotes economic justice 
Every perspective on economic life that is human, moral and Christian must beshaped by two questions: Wbat does the economy do for people? Wbat does it do to people? 
These words begin the U.S. Bishops' Pastoral Letter 
on Catholic Social teaching and the U.S. Economy. It is 
a document which will receive much attention in the 
coming months because it addresses the moral criteria 
by which an economic system is to judged. Also, it seeks 
to define the moral obligations of the Christian par· 
ticipating in an economic system. 
The basic premise ofthe letter is that, "The dignity of 
the human person, realized in community with others, 
is the criterion against which all aspects of economic 
life must be measured." 
It seems that much ofthe wild discussion taking place in my parish back home centers on the misconception that the letter supports communism. These people have mistakenly equated com­munism and socialism. 
Communism, the philosphy we have associ­ated with the Soviet eco­nomic system, with its suppression of civil rights, its rejection of private ownership, and its lack ofin­centive, is not what the bis­hops suggest. 
The letter does support certain socialistic policies, but this is nothing new for the U.S. economic system. For the most part, though, the letter is a strong affirma­tion of the capitalist system as the best means ofprovid· ing for the economic welfare and dignity of mankind. The letter supports such things as private ownership and a distribution ofincome based on effort and risks taken. What the letter challenges, though, is inequity in our economic sysytems and the shortcom· ings that prevent it from meeting the basic needs of all its citizens and, as a wealthy nation, the needs of the world's poor. 
The letter identifies the need to promote economic justice through a redistribution of income, the need to institute a tax structure based on the ability to pay and which shifts the burden from the poor to the ad­vantaged, and the need for a wider distribution ofcapi­tal. In 1982, the top 20 percent of the people received 49 percent of the income in the United States while the bottom 20 percent received only 4 percent. Also in 1982, the top 5 percent of the families in the United States owned 43 percent ofthe net wealth in the nation. These conditions do not satisfy the demands of social justice. 
Dave Grote 
Viewpoint Editor 
Inside Tuesday 

Human beings have economic rights in much the same way that they have civil rights. Social justice demands that these rights be met for all people regard· less of perfomance, ability or economic participation · these standards are not God's and do not define basic human dignity. The basic human rights to food, cloth· ing, shelter, rest and medical care "express the absolute minimum for the protection of human rights." But the abitliy to work, to participate in the production of goods in service to mankind is also necessary for social 


justice and human dignity. 
The bishop's letter con­tests the widespread mis­conception that "the poor are poor by choice, that anyone can escape poverty by hard work and that welfare programs make it easier for people to avoid work." This attitude has resulted in the creation of a welfare structure which demeans the poor, and which tries to single the poor ·out. Most welfare recipients are children and their mothers and regardless of popular opinion 70 per· 
cent  of  the  families  on  
welfare  have  only  one  or  
two children.  

Our welfare system should be structured to support human dignity, to help the unemployeed re-enter the economic system, and to promote the value of gainful employment and its necessity to human dignity. 
One ofthe main themes ofthe bishops'letter, though, is that charity is a necessity ofChristian action but that it will not solve the underlying problems which spawn continued unemployment, poverty, and unjust income distribution. Christians must work to restructure the economic system they support so that the necessities of the worldwide family of man may be satisfied. 
The resources ofthis world represent a gift from God in which all men have a right to share. 
Can Christians justify buying that extra television for an amount which would feed a third-world family for a year? Can Christians justify the acceptance of an eco· nomic system which fails to address the demands of human dignity and social justice? 
No. 

SOberingAdvice
Think Before You Drink Before You Drive 
cansavealife 
NAVY MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide:
* 
Your full tuition. authorized fees and educational expenses.

* 
The cost of required books and supplies.

* 
Rental fees for necessary equipment such as microscopes.

* 
A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 


Participation '" the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not involve any military traming nor requ1res weanng of a Navy un1torm. Your academ1c rout.ne and lifestyle w11I remain !he same as· other medical students. 
Qualifications for this scholarship include: Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. Be a U.S. citizen. Be physrcally qualified for a commission as a Naval Officer. 
For more information call: Marty Schmahl TOLL FREE 1-800-382-9404, ext.6183 
Or write: U.S. NAVY RECRUITING OFFICE 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis, IN 46204 
The Observer 
Tuesday, November 27, 1984-page 3 
No visible front-runner emerging 
Official's visit cancelled 


in race for Senate majority leader 
The Nicaraguan ambassador to present his credentials to the 
the United States, Carlos Tunner­White House, according to Al­
Associated Press
mann has cancelled his visit to bert LeMay, program coordina­Notre Dame. Tunnermann was tor for the Helen Kellogg WASHINGTON Republicanscheduled to give a lecture en­Institute for International senators were inundated yesterdaytitled "Prospects for Peace and Studies. Tunnermann's lecture by heavy lobbying by five colleagues Development in Nlcaraugua" this was to have been sponsored by seeking to become Senate majorityevening In Washington Hall the Helen Kellogg Institute. 
leader, amid signs that no cleartonight at 8. 
front-runner had emerged.
The visit was cancelled be­Tunnermann was appointed Two days before the secret-ballot cause the recently appointed am­ambassador three months ago election of a successor to the retir­bassador had to remain In after serving a'i Nicaragua's mini­ing Howard Baker Jr., a variety ofWa'lhlngton, D.C. In preparation ster of education and as the rec­sources close to the contest said Sen. 
for his meeting with President tor of the National University of James McClure of Idaho had madeReagan. Tunnt·rmann had to Nicaragua in Managua. 
more solid gains over the past few days than any of his four rivals -but still not nearly enough to claim an early victory. 

Meanwhile, Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana was reported by aides to be willing to accept a consolation prize ifpassed over for the leadership post -the chairmanship ofthe Foreign Re­lations Committee. The current chairman, Charles Percy of Illinois, was defeated for re-election. 
Lugar, McClure and the three other combatants -Robert Dole of Kansas, Pete Domenici of New Mexico and Ted Stevens of Alaska ­spent the day with their ears glued to their phones, dialing and redialing colleagues in search ofelusive votes. 
When they weren't practicing the art of persuasion by phone, the aspirants were buttonholing GOP senators as they trickled into Wash­ington. The 53 Republicans who will serve in the 99th Congress that con­venes inJanuary will cast their votes at a caucus tomorrow. 


MORGAN STANLEY 
will host an informal reception to discuss 2-year job opportunities for 1985 graduates as 
Financial Analysts 
•


zn Investment Banking 
Tuesday, November 27, 1984 7:00P.M. 
The Morris Inn 
l 
, 

"There's  nobody  with  a  lot  of  Stevens Is  not  the chairman of a  
votes.  I'm  still  working,"  said  major Senate committee ­a lilct that  
Domenici. "You have to be careful  could be a disadvantage to him on  
not  to  read  commitments  where  the  first  ballot,  when  committee  
they're not there."  chairman-candidates can expect to  
It was the final round of what has  win the support of many GOP mem­ 
been an Intensive month of cam­ bers of their panels. Stevens Is now  
paigning for all five candidates.  the assistant Republican leader and  
Mitch  McConnell  of Kentucky,  has been campaigning for the top  
one  of  two  newly  elected  job longer than the others.  
Republicans, said the contacts began  A victory by Dole would open up  
Election Night, "even before it was  the  chairmanship  of  the  Senate  
declared that I had won" an upset  Finance Committee  -a key assign­ 
victory  against  Democratic  Sen.  ment  in  a  year  when  tax­ 
Walter  Huddleston.  The  lobbying  simplification  Is  a  key  Reagan  
has continued unabated ever since,  adminltration priority. Seante con­ 
he said.  servatives  are  fearful  that,  under  
·There have been "frequent calls"  such circumstances, the chairman­ 
from all five candidates, said McCon­ ship would pass to the next most­ 
nell, who was attending an orienta­ senior member, Bob Packwood of  
tion  session  for  newly  elected  Oregon, a liberal and a sharp critic of  
senators.  the administration.  
"I wouldn't call it pressure," he  
added. "It was  the  most amicable  Dole aide Walter Riker said the  
lobbying I've ever been subjected  senator  spent  most  of  yesterday  
to. No one has said anything dis­paraging about the others."  "doing phone work" and remained "confident but not over-confident"  ,  
McConnell said he had not com­mitted himself ofany of the five and,  about his chances.  ~ ,  
since the balloting will be secret, "I may not ever reveal my vote." If there is no winner on the first  McClure's elevation to the majority leadership would put liberal Sen. Lowell Welcker of Con­ ~,,  
ballot -and none is expected -the  necticut  in  line  to  replace  the  
candidate drawing the fewest votes  Idahoan as chairman of the Energy  
would be dropped and subsequent  Committee.  
ballots taken.  
However, the five contenders, in a  Speculation  yesterday  centered  
meeting  last  week  to  set  ground  on McClure emerging as a possible  
rules, agreed that if two of them are  compromise winner  -after several  
tied for last place in the first round of  ballots. "He is well liked and appears  
balloting, the second ballot would  to be the second choice of many.  
also contain the names of all five.  And, in  an  election like  this,  the  
The results will set off a chain re­ second-choice person is In the best  
action in the Senate in terms ofcom­ position to clean up," said one GOP  
mittee chairmanships.  official who spoke only on the con­ 
Of  the  five  candidates,  only  dition that he not be identified.  


Donald 
Taylor 
•
ID 
•
memonam 
,
.,
.,
,
.,

Educational Media 
, 
, ~ 


expresses deep sorrow 
,
, 
, ., ,

at the death ofone of itsfinest student­employees. 
THERE'S MORE THAN 
OMEWAYTO 
SERVE YOUR COUNTRY. 
The Army is anything but a one-way street. You 
have all kinds of options. 
For starters, there are Active Army and Army Reserve. If you choose to go into the Active Army, you can enlist for 2 or 3 years. And you can take your choice from over 300 skills you may qualify to train in. Ifyou're thinking about college,Jou should certainly look into the Army College Fun . 
Ifyou're already committed to a job or school, you can still serve your country part-time in the Army Reserve, one weekend a month and two weeks a year, learning a useful skill and earning over $1,200 a year to start. 
The Army has many ways for you to serve your country. For the one best suited for you, call your Army Recruiter. 
SGT. Jones 234-4187 
ARMY. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1984 -page 4 

the advice of prominent scholars and college leaders, called upon the academic community to place "study of the humanities and West­ern civilization ... at the heart of the college curriculum." 
"Most of our college graduates remain shortchanged in the humanities," Bennett wrote. "The fault lies principally with those ofus whose business it is to educate these students." 

By their "indifference and ... in­tellectual diffidence," too many educators have abdicated "the great task of transmitting a culture to its rightful heirs," Bennett said. 



Board 
continued/rom page 1 
hours would be a barrier to the de­
velopment of a "woman's charac­
ter". 

"At times there are problems with girls not knowing when their roommate's boyfriend is coming over," said Kathleen Burger, R.A. representative. "There are students that go to bed at II p.m. They often feel embarrassed or resentful towards girls that have guys around, and some don't feel free to walk around in the dorm." 
On the other hand, Trisha Cullo, athletics commissioner, told the board that "men are a fact oflife." 
"You're not going to have guys up every night; we're not going to be destroying ··women's character' every night," she said. 
Mona Boetto, off-campus commis­sioner, mentioned that if some girls don't like the situation they do have the option of moving off campus. 
Until a decision is reached, the 

board was urged to spread word of 
the potential changes. 

"Talk it up," said Julie Straz­zabosco, vice president for aca­demic affairs. "That's where we are going to get the response." 

The residence hall room pick pro­posal was discussed. The proposal, which is pending approval from the 
THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. THE EASY WAY TO CALL HOME senior officers, offers a computer· ized room pick system and selection 
AND SHARE THE RIGORS OF COLLEGE LIFE. 
in March instead ofFebruary. Accor­ding to a recent survey, more than paying for the calL And since you can 
half the students favor such a 
r -GET THEAT&T CALL ME CARD. ---,only call home with the CALL ME change. 
I THE BEST WAY TO CALL HOME.

Card, Mom and Dad don't mind pick­This system, if passed, would save 
I WHEN YOU'RE AWAY FROM HOME.
ing up the tab.

the College 68 man-hours and 
Calli 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 50 to have a several hundred dollars. GET ACLUE. I CALL ME Card application sent to your parents. Or complete and return this form 
I

GET THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. 
to AT&T College Promotions, P.O. BoxI 49466, Atlanta, GA 30359.

So don't sing the budget blues all by yourself. Call home with the AT&T 
I Your Parents' Name 


Foley 
CALL ME Card. And let them know 
I

College can be rough on a kid. their favorite investment in the Address 
continuedjrompage 1 

Especially when the refreshments future needs a little monetary help I 
City/State/Ziphealth and safety at ITT. He is a regu­and cash run out at the same time. right now. I >
< 

lar speaker on college campuses, in What to do about the cash flow Don't have an AT&T CALL ME I Parents' Phone No. 
executive seminars, and at national problem? Call home with the AT&T Card yet? Mail the coupon at right to 
1 Your Name (0 Mr./0 Ms.)

CALL ME Card. The quick and con­
conferences on the topic of Chris· AT&T and we'll send an application 
tian ethics and the business world. venient way to get in touch with your home to your parents. Or phone: 1 College
family. Without the hassle of calling Check Class: 0 Fr. 0 Soph. 0 ]r. 0 Sr. 0 Grad.
Foley is a 1965 graduate of Mar­collect, fumbling for spare change or 1 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 50. L-----------~quette Univerisity and in 1971 

earned his law degree from DePaul 
University. 
In I979 he was ordained Deacon 

of St. Bridget's Catholic Parish in his 
hometown of Fairfield, Conn. He 
preaches there weekly and oc­

ATs.T 
casionaly preaches at St. Patrick's 
Cathedral in New York City. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1984 -page 5 


Transplant recipient recovers after etnergency surgery 
Associated Press his chest, doctors said yesterday. His wife, Margaret, said, mean­while, that the decision to have the 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -William ]. artificial heart implanted "was kind Schroeder's bleeding was stopped of left to Bill to make up his own and his circulation was "excellent" mind" and that he had told her, "I on his second day living with the soft have no other thoughts but to go all clicking of a mechanical heart inside the way." 

SOI..DOtrr Box Office Open Daily (Except Sun.) 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Telephone (219) 284-9190 Ma.terCarcl & V.i... Acceptecl • Group & Stud~<nl Di.counu 
~ The Broadway Theatre League P.O. Box 866 South Bend, IN 46624 
Dr. Allan M. Lansing, chairman of Humana Heart Institute Interna­tional in Louisville and assistant to Dr. William DeVries, who implanted the heart said Schroeder was not bleeding and "there appear to be no major complications. 
"He is warm, pink and dry, indica­ting excellent circulation," Lansing said at a press briefing. 
Schroeder underwent emergency surgery to stop excessive bleeding Sunday night, less than six hours after he became the second person in history to receive a permanent ar­tificial heart. 
After your lastexam, what toughquestions will you still be facing? 

But we'll listen to your questions, share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
• 
Contoct: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. 
Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dome, IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 
The excessive bleeding was stopped, but not before Schroeder had lost half of his blood through a hole where the artificial heart was stitched to his aorta, the artery that carries blood to the rest ofthe body. 
Schroeder lost less than two pints of blood overnight, which Lansing 
,
said wa~ normal for a patient 
,-,
recovering from open heart surgery. 
, 
Schroeder, a ')2-year-old quality 
, 
assurance specialist from Jasper, Ind., who was forced to retire be­cause of ill health, wao; under seda­tion and breathing with the help ofa respirator, Lansing sald. 
Schroeder remained in a specially prepared room In the coronary in­tensive care unit, tethered to the S40,000 Utahdrive system, one of two external power systems that Schroeder will be tied to for the rest ofhis life. 
His wife of 32 years visited him there yesterday morning and held his hand. Doctors said Schroeder "seemed to recognize her." 
, 
Mrs. Schroeder was described by , hospital officials as "very happy to see her husband." 
In an interview with the jasper 
,
Herald and Jasper radio station 
,
WITZ, Mrs. Schroeder said her hus­band was "In the best of hand'i we feel he could ever be In besides the good Lord above." 
l 
,1
Melvin Schroeder, at 30 the oldest son among the couple's six children, ,said in the same Interview that his father "wanted to go through with this and we're all behind him I00 percent. We arc extremely proud of Dad and we are cautiously optimis­tic." 





I--------------------------,
IN ARMY NURSING I I YOU KEEP I 
I ADDING NEW I 
! re. tmpo•tantthat ~~!~~~with the dtgnlty and !I 
1 respect accorded an Army officer. And its important to I I work in a modern medical center, earn a top salary, and I travel. But perhaps the most important aspect of Army I I Nursing is the dedication to education. In Army Nursing 1 I you have the opportunity to attend professional I1 I conferences, pursue advanced degrees and study a I I variety of nursing practices. I I If you're a student working on your BSN or if you I I already have a BSN and are registered to practice in the I I United States or Puerto Rico, look into Army Nursing. I I Stop by or call us: 1
I 
SGT John Moore I I (815)727·9120 CALL COLLECT I ~
I ARMY NURSE CORPS. I ,,, 
I BE ALL YOU CAN BE. I ., 
.,

L--------------------------1 , 
The College of Business Administration 
~ 
presents the 
~

ARTHUR F. and MARY J. O'NEIL 
speaking series 

Speaker: Joseph P. Brennan 
1

President ofthe Bituminous Coal Operators' 
~ 

Association 
1 
-,

This fall, the Bituminous Coal Operators'Association and 
1

the United Mine Workers negotiated thefirst peaceful 
1

coal settlement since 1964, reflecting the diminishing role 
1

ofstrikes in collective bargaining in the United States. 
1 

Date: Thursday, November 29, 1984 
j

12:15 pm.-Faculty seminar, "Changing trends in Collective Bargaining," Board Room, Hayes-Healy 
4:15pm.-Lecture, "New Directions in Industrial Relations," Hayes-Healy Auditorium (room 122) 

. . . ~·.. 
Vocation Retreat 
where is the Lord leading you? ... a chance to explore religious life 
as a sister ofthe Holy Cross ... 
November 30 -December 1 
(7 pm. Friday to 7 pm. Saturday) 
Mary's Solitude 
St. Mary's College campus...it'sfree! 
to register, call Sr. Pat McCabe at 284-4466I 284-4287 
~~~ 

$20,000 Scholarships: AValuableScholarship. AValuable Challenge. 
The two-year NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarst:ip that's worth as much as $20,000 in tuition. And it offers you the c~allenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition. cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you are commissioned a Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
LT. C. J. KARAFFA 1·800·382-9782 Ext. 6193 .f 
.;-/ 

NavyOfficers Get ResponsibilityFast. 

View~_o_i_n__t________Tu-esd-ay.._,N_o_ve_mb-er-27_,_198_4.::-pa....ge-6 

Political interference 





blocks economic justice 
r 
r ~ One of the most frequent complaints about "the media" is that they bring nothing but bad
r 
news. The complaint lives with a vigor en­
r 
tirely undimmed by its lack of consonance
r 
with reality. Happy news from pretty faces fills 
r 
air time, as television gives more and more of its "news" time to entertainment.
~ 
The actual tilt of the coverage of world events is demonstrated by the grudging treat­ment given to disaster on a scale both univer­sal and intimate -the starving of hundreds of thousands in Ethiopia and, for that matter, in 
Garry Wills 
r 
r outrider 
r 
r 
r 
other parts of Africa. These people are not
r 
pretty faces full of happy talk. Television
r 
editors, and newspaper editors too, must be
r 
hesitant to expose so much pain to people
r 
r who want amusement as clearly as we do. 
r 
r The Reagan administration, which worked against a World Bank loan to Ethiopia, did not 
r 
want the exposure ofstarving people to spoil 
r 
the "Olympic fever" of its re-election 
r delirium. Therefore, commercials were made which showed everyone as well-fed and smiling. The starving people were not even certifiable anti-communists. We feel for "boat
r 
t 
people" and others only when they are the victims of our enemy, not when they are hunted down by those older enemies of mankind, drought and hunger. 
r Our grain stores have barely been tapped
r for the starving, and our emergency store has not been tapped at all. Why give money to a government that just mismanages what it does not filch? This argument did not apply to regimes like that of Chiang Kai-shek because 
~ 
~ 

! STA~P 
HEQE 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
, 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

IRS PROrosEs lTG OWN TAX SIMPLifiCATiON PLA~ 

he was on the right side -as if there is a right 
side ofstarvation. 
By a telling juxtaposition of events, the Catholic bishops' draft ofa letter on economic justice appeared just as world attention came finally to focus on the disaster in Ethiopia. The thing to say about the bishops' letter, espe­cially by those who have not read it, is that it is full of old and unsuccessful policies. But one of the things most criticized by the very people who say this is that the wealthy nations have a moral duty to address the long-range deprivation ofhalfthe world's population. 
This is a problem our country has never seriously addressed. Henry Kissinger used to refer to the deprived halfofthe human beings on this globe as "the so-called Third World." Our aid programs were mainly anti­communist ploys -President Kennedy's con­ception of the Peace Corps was that it demonstrated our superiority to the commu­nists. Yet when that "game" aspect is missing, we can prove to be little better than are the communists. President Carter made the first halting attempt to address the Third World's problems, but it was unsuccessful. 
G.K. Chesterton said that Christianity had not been tried and found wanting -it simply had not been tried. That is the real problem with the bishops' draft -it brings back the topsy-turvydom of the Gospels, in which the poor judge the rich. 
Some would dismiss the bishops' draft on the grounds that if liberals were resisting their views on abortion before the election, how can they accept their views on economics af­terwards? But there is nothing, not one word, about abortion in the Gospels. In fact, there is very little regarding sex or "private morality," as it is called. But page after page is filled with denunciation of the privileged and a call for justice to the lowly, the poor, the humble, the excluded and the weak. Who can qualify for that attention if the dying in Ethiopia cannot? 

(C) 1984, UNIVERSALPRESSSYNDJCATE 



Jeane Kirkpatrick tests the political waters 
If Jeane Kirkpatrick wants out of her U.N. job, at which she has been a scourge of America's detractors and a bastion ofits allies, it's fine with me. As the saying goes, she is "entitled." 
She is equally so entitled ifshe wants a post that will give her more input into decision­making. It must be galling, day after day, to argue a brieffor a secretary ofstate for whom 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
you have the most imperfect sympathies, when really you hanker for a hand in compos­ing that brief. 
Whatever happens to her cannot diminish, as it would be difficult to enhance, her prime quality. That quality is a fierce intellectual honesty in the service of a classy mind of strength and resourcefulness. 
By all rights she should-be at the height of her influence today, after the second victory ofa president who has an ideological crush on her. Yet in the lethal game ofcorridor politics, Kirkpatrick has had to make her own power play ofannouncing her "desire," like a female Cincinnatus, to go home again. She will go home unless, one must add, some alluring enticement is held out to keep her. 
Only Ronald Reagan can answer whether an enticement will be held out. In the game of musical chairs which the media loves to watch, the choice seats are now chained down by a clubby California gang, and Jeane Kirkpatrick has too much jauntiness to become a pursuer. Her testing now is to see whether she can get what she wants without seeming to want it too much. 
But there is still a slick children's power game beingplayed, and it is not the conduct of foreign policy itself by deft and mature minds. For first grade intellects in foreign policy, one must go back all the way to Dean Acheson un­der Truman, then add Henry Kissinger and Pat Moynihan under Nixon. The Reagan foreign policy constellation does not have so many luminaries that the president can afford to see a first-rate foreign policy intellect and instinct leave his service, however prickly a tempera­ment the State Department bureaucrats may deem her to possess. 
Along with musical chairs, the media plays the labels game. The fact is that Kirkpatrick is a Democrat and a centrist. Yet her challenge is not, as it has been labeled, a question of "ideology" but ofknowledge, clarity and artic­ulation. 
Does Kirkpatrick have a constituency? If she does, it is bruited to be an odd-couple partnership of Republican hard-liners and the nationalJewish community ofboth parties, al­though only a third of the latter curiously ended up voting for Reagan. 
Quite possibly, either or both of these groups could turn against her ifshe had a con­spicuous policy-making post. I seem to recall that Henry Kissinger, a liberal, Jewish intellec­tual, lost both his original constituencies before he was through. 
Early in her U.N. post, Kirkpatrick told the reporters she did not plan to see .America kicked around anymore on the world stage. Did this mean, she was asked, that she would kick back? No, she carefully explained. But as America's public symbol, she did not plan to be apologetic. 
She has not been apologetic. She has talked with logic, subtlety and eloquence. I suspect her confidence rubbed off on millions of voters in the election. She has a far larger con­stituency than most of us think. 
(C) 1984,LOSANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 

= -The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) f39-5303 
Editor-In-Chief. . . . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . .. Dave Taiclet Managing Ed1tor . . . Mark Worscheh Controller . . . Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor... . . . Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . ...... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ...... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor . . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager .. ....... Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor........ . Michael Sullivan Production Manager. . Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor . . . . ... Dave Grote Protect Manager ........... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor. . . . . . ...... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photo Editor. . . . . . . . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
"ieVVP.~O~i~n~t~---------------------------------------T_ue_~~ay~,_N_ov_e_m_b_e_r_27~,_I_98_4_-~p~ag~e__7 ­

P.O. BoxQ 
Few Hindus show any prejudice toward Sikhs 
Dear Editor: 
If, as according to Mr. Rai, one is to believe that Sikhs arc like Jews in Nazi Germany, then one must believe that Nazi Germany had a jewish presidelll and many jews holding im­portant diplomatic and military positions. 
Just as few Sikhs hold the extreme view of Mr. Rai, so also do few Hindus have any kind of prejudice towards Sikhs. Some of the violent Hindus who recently attacked Sikhs were driven by desires to loot and plunder rather than driven by hatred. 
In fact, there Is a similarity between Sikh ex­tremism and Naziism. 'lhc Nazis played on the insecure feelings of some unemployed Ger­mans to ~o~ain and maintain power. The Sikh extremists are playin~o~ on the religious emo­tions of some Sikhs in India and the cultural confusion of some Sikhs outside India to gain political acceptancc among the Sikhs. 
Apparently some Sikhs abroad would rather return to a Khomt:ini style country based on religion rather than rt·turn to secular India. 
]obn Cart Graduate Student 
Letter criticizing Healy is an unfair attack 
Oear Editor: 
Tom Schwartz's recent letter about Tbe 
Obsert'l.,.·s finc Accent editor is an unfair per­
sonal attack. One need only look at her arti­
cles on drunk drivers to realize her concern 
for ol.ht·rs. Mary Healy writes some of the best 
artklcs in the paper and shows she cares 
greatly about Our Lady's university and its 
Catholic t·haracter. Without a doubt Healy 
seems to t·xudc the very essence of what I 
think Notre Dame women should stand for. 
A!t a chapter presidclll for Right-to-Life, I 
have followed Cardinal Bernadine closely. His 
commitment to the idt·a of a "seamless gar­
ment" is made manifest in the writing of 
Healy. In conclusion, let me say that 
Schwartz's questioning of Healy's conduct Is 
as unfounded as Madalyn Murray-O'Halre's at­
tat·k on "In God We Trust" on American coins. 
Robert T. Couley Notre Dame Class of1947 
Nuclear defense hopes threaten world security 
Oear lid{tor: 
PeterS. Bowen's guest t'olumn "The Grave 
'lhreat Nuclear Weapons Pose," presented a 
dangt·rously ca.~ual altitude toward that grave 
threat. 
As I understand the column, his main points 
arc these · first, "idealists" who call for sweep­
ing moral and political changes to eliminate 
nuclear weapons adhere to pipe dreams. 
Second, "realists" who propose arms limita­
tions and test hans will get caught in a tech­
nological jumble making such agreements 
ever harder to police. 'lhird, the best solution 
is research aimed at developing effective 
countermeasures to nudcar weapons. 
He states the probkm with this way of 
thinking, however · "If we don't blow our­
selves up first, someone will develop effective 
countermea.~urt•s." Research on counter­
measures is itself destabilizing, perhaps to the 
point ofbecoming an invitation to use nuclear 
weapons or lose them. Working on counter­
measures may increase the chance that we 
will blow ourselves up first. 
'Jhc sad fact is that such research is also unlikely to yield an effective defense. Nuclear weapons arc va.~tly different from the conven­tional weapons Bowen mention.~. 'lhey are ef­fective when exphxlcd far from their targets. '!hey cannot be stoppcd by simple barrier method. 
8oth the United States and tht• Soviet Union 
already have enough nuclear weapons 
available that even a defense that was 95 per­
cent effective would fall to prevent a nuclear 
winter that would result in the extinction of 
mankind. 'lhc optimistic guess is that, even if a 
missile defense is developed within those few 
decades, it will be perhaps I 5 percent effec­
tive. 
Bowen's confidence that development of effective countermeasures is "inevitable" betrays a dangerous misconception that, given enough time and money, scientists can do anything. Physical laws of the universe impose limits, even on scientists. Defense against nuclear weapons butts against those boundaries. 
Certainly, defense research should con­tinue, but a headlong rush by the United States to a space-based defense threatens world se­curity. Such research cannot be conducted outside the context of arms limitations treaties and test bans. And arms reductions are also necessary. 
Contrary to Bowen's claim, idealists aren't asking for a great "moral" change from mankind -they are asking for a much harder thing. 'lhey are asking that man's will to survive can overcome his incredible stupidity. 
Still, that may be our best hope for eliminat­ing the nuclear threat. Man's will has no limits. 
Bruce Oakley ElDorado, Ark. 
Abuses in Afghanistan are not Ahmadullah's 
Dear Editor: 
Jim Butterfield wrote a letter which ap­peared in the Nov. 9 issue of The Obseroer concerning Ahmadullah Ahmadullah, the former minister ofinterior ofMghanistan who spoke at Notre Dame on Nov. 12. Butterfield claimed in his letter that Ahmadullah, as the former director of Mghanistan's internal se­curity forces, was at least partially responsible for the human suffering that has been prevalent in Mghanistan for the past five years. Butterfield's accusation is reasonable consid­ering the facts given at Ahmadullah's speech, but the conclusion that Ahmadullah shares the blame for the bloodshed and oppression in Mghanistan is simply wrong. 
'lhc government in Mghanistan during the year l.hat preceded the Soviet invasion was a brutal and oppressive government, and the man who held the position of minister ofinte­rior during that year certainly holds responsi­bility for a number offlagrant abuses ofhuman right~. 'lhis minister ofinterior, however, was not Ahmadullah. Ahmadullah wa.'i the minister ofinterior between 1963 and 1965, nearly fif­teen years before the Soviet invasion, during a time when the government ofMghanistan was relatively stable and clearly not repressive. After 1965, Ahmadullah left governmental ser­vice completely and served as the president of a private cement company until the time of l.he Soviet invasion. 
Ahmadullah in no way shares the responsi­bility for the years of suffering that have plagued Mghanistan since 1979 -that respon­sibility lies solely with the Soviets and their Mghan sympathizers. 
Todd Young Ideas & Issues Commissioner StudentActtv{l{es Board 
Munro's humor fails 
to cover up suffering 
DearEdttor: 

I am writing in response to K.R. Munro's let­ter of Nov. 13 praising Ronald Reagan and his policies. It has taken me several attempts to understand this letter, but now I think I see its point. Munro praises Reagan's "amiable per­sonality" and "policies" through the "American viewpoint instead of the liberal one." I will not try to burst Munro's red, white and blue bubble of grandeur wherein his viewpoint becomes the ideal for all Americans, nor will I contest him on Reagan's amiable personality. I myself have had very little social interaction with Reagan and did not know he was such a grand old fellow. But I will question Reagan's policies. 
The author satirically describes the presi­dent's military policies as "immoral" because these policies propose to defend us against So­viet imperialism. It is ironic that Munro's at­tempt at satire backfires. Unfortunately, the immorality of these policies is all too appar­ent. Starvation, unemployment, homelessness and war run rampant while billions and bil­lions ofdollars are thrown into the military. 
The ever-humorous Munro then satirically challenges us to "sirik into pacifism." I do not deny the risks involved in adopting a philoso­phy of pacifism. The call to true pacifism is a 

frightening and questionable one that can only be tested through experience. But to label a beliefin peace as a low human charac­teristic, to which one need "sink," is moral and intellectual cowardice. What kind of maniac teases those who long for peace in the world? 
Just when I thought I was finished laughing at Munro's humor, he strikes again. He writes that there are "35 million living below the poverty level with their skin barely able to cover their bones." So he does see this sad­ness. But what does he think of America's at­tempt to solve this crisis? Welfare is described by Munro as getting those people on welfare "nice suburban homes, with 2. 5 children, a dog, a nice car and a cabin in Wisconsin." How can anyone admit povertyexistsand then joke about an attempt at relieving it? I do not call myself a liberal, but I definitely prefer a liberal who, according to Munro, will "scream hys­terically" after spotting "problems a mile away" than someone who sees them face to face and closes his eyes. 
Munro should try to experience some of the social phenomena that he mocks before he tries to teach the rest ofus how to be Amer­ican. Anyone can listen to him, but inexperi­enced criticism and the ridiculing of human suffering can earn no one's respect. Perhaps these ideas would help him praise his cause more effectively-go to Harlem where one can find "intelligent, hardworking and ambitious" people who must spend all their energy on survival. Go to Western Europe and see who is subjugating those countries (no, not the So­viet Union). Talk to a juvenile delinquent who gets arrested on purpose because he prefers jail to the wonderful American city. Study such ineffective, low and feeble pacifists like Dr. Martin Luther King, Mahatma Gandhi and Jesus Christ. Go to rural Appalachia and see how many Americans are there saving for their Wisconsin cabin and, lastly, take a course in American government to see that one may hold an opinion contrary to another's and still be an American. 
Cbrlsttan Mtcbener Corby Boulevard Notre Dame student 
What is the inherent evil of a good party? 
DearEditor: 
The university's new alcohol policy implies that "parties" arc inherently injurious as po­tential public disturbances. Aproblem results in l.hat not all parties actually disturb ol.hcrs or foster obnoxious behavior. Nevertheless, those who administer the alcohol policy sometimes find it difficult to draw a distinc­tion between wholesome social gatherings and "parties," since objective guidelines have not been set. Dictionaries define a party as "a group of people doing something together, a gathering for plca.<;ure." 'Ibis docs not sound inherently injurious to me. For the sake of logic l.hen, let us define a party as a distur­bance to another person. 
One must then ask who is being disturbed. Perhaps those who wish to study or relax in peace and quiet are being disturbed. Those who wish to study on a Friday or Saturday night could certainly find refuge in the library which is traditionally quite vacant and con­ducive toward study on weekend evenings. Within the dormitories, peace and quiet are usually only found in conjunction with parie· tals anyway. 
Maybe a better question to ask is who is dis­turbing whom. Should a person be condemned for trying to employ his or her social tendencies? Certainly one or two people in the section who arc studying can go to the library at the expense of the ten-fold number that prefer to socialize, play music or simply "let go." 
I know a freshman who summed up the whole problem one day when he said, "Isn't there any place on this campus where we're allowed to have fun?" Certainly there are many wholesome and enjoyable activities on campus. What I question is the obscure ab­sence of man's first and foremost mode of en­joyment, the social gathering. 
The purpose of this letter is simply to promote ideas to those who enforce the alco­hol policy about its impact on social life at Notre Dame. Can a true university education thrive under conditions where social activity is selectively repressed? I fear that although my textbook education may be well-rounded, my social education is not. 



-
.. 


Sports Briefs 

The Notre Dame SquashOubwill be playing host to a tournament this Friday and Saturday. There will be two divisions, beginner and intermediate, in the free tournament For more information, call Sean at 277-3953 or Bill at 283-2302. -The Obseroer 
TintKefilDton.,center on the Notre Dame men's basket­ball team, will be the guest on "Speaking ofSports" today at 9 pm. onWVFl AM-64. Host QmckFreebywill take phone calls about Irish basketball at 239-6400. -The Obseroer 
Brotherlouis Hurcik, C.S.C.,director of the 
swinuningprogram at Notre Dame, has been named ,theoutstanding 
auxiliary patroller in the National Ski Patrol System. Brother Louis is 
a member of the Buchanan, Mich., Royal Valley patrol and a volun­
teer for the St.Joseph County Red Cross. -The Obseroer· 
TheNVA WeightTrainingClinicscheduled for today and Thursday at 7 pm. has been rescheduled for Monday and Wednesday, December 3 and 5, at 7 pm. Sign-up at the NVA office or call 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
Observer Snorts Briefs are accepted Sunday 
through Thursday ~tf 4pm. at 7be Obseroer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. BriefS must be dearly written. -The Obseroer 

Tuesday, November 27, 1984-page 8 
Upset 
continuedfrom page 12 
second halt A pair of 15-foot jumpers by Trena Keys and two layups by Ruth Kaiser moved the spread to 45-30, silencing the crowd which came to see Versyp. 
The Boilermakers slowly chipped away at the Irish lead, as Notre Dame's hot-shooting hand went into the freezer. Two consecutive jumpers by Sandy Alston from the right baseline closed the margin to 49-43, and DiStanislao quickly called timeout to settle her players down. The move was effective, as the Irish managed to keep the differ­ence at five points with five minutes left in the game. 
All of this had merely been a warm-up for the main attraction. Versyp had been shut down well by the Irish backcourt all night, only connecting on two-of-seven from the field to this point. However, it was now showtime for Versyp. 
The story of the game for the next 
2:19 can be put very simply from that point. Versyp ten-footer right side. Versyp 12-footer right side. Versyp 15-footer left side. Purdue leads for the first time in the game, 54-53. The game wasn't over yet, but neither was Versyp. 
Mickey Skieresz' easy layup un­derneath put the Irish back on top with 2:09left, but the lead was short­lived. Versyp found Cathey Tyree all alone underneath, and the Purdue center converted to give the Boilers 
Kuhns signs with Irish 
lisa Kuhns, a 5-10 sharpshooting forward from Fort Walton, Fla., signed the national letter ofintent last week to play for Notre Dame. She joins Chicago's Diondra Toney in deciding to play for the Irish women next year. 
At Choctawhatchee High School in Fort Walton, Kuhns earned all-state honors in both her sophomore and junior seasons. She has a remarkable 61 percent career shooting mark from the field and has averaged 20 points and 14 rebounds for the Indians. 
"She's a very gifted shooter and an efficient scorer," Irish coach Mary DiStanislao adds. "She has good range on her jump shot and, because of her size, she'll be able to play in the front line as well as the backcourt." 
Kuhns was an honorable mention on the pre-season All-America team ofStreet and Smttb and was named MVP of the prestigious BC women's basketball camp last summer. 
a lead they would never relinquish. 
After an Irish turnover, Versyp would hurt the Irish one more time, swishing both ends ofa one-and-one to make it 58-55 and send the par­tisan Purdue crowd into a frenzy. ' From there, the Irish just could 
never get any closer. 
For DiStanislao, the loss blatantly 
showed her team's weaknesses. 
"The things that killed us are the 
things that kill any team," noted the 
Irish mentor. "We didn't box out, we 
made too many turnovers, and we 
showed poor shot selection. You 
can't win without control of the 
boards and control of the ball." 
For Versyp, the victory was sweet. 
"It was great to come home and get a 
win," said an beaming Versyp. "I was 
hoping for a great following, and I 
certainly got one. I told the team we 
had the crowd and the talent. All we 
had to do was go and play." 
Tennessee, ranked 14th nation­
ally, fought off a Notre Dame com­
eback effort Saturday night to defeat 
the Irish 62-57. 
The Irish were plagued with 28 
turnovers in the contest, but still had 
a chance to win the game, pulling 
within two points, at 57-55 with two 
minutes left. However, the Lady Vols 
connected on three-of-four free 
throws to ice the game. 
Carrie Bates led the Irish with 17 
points, while Trena Keys added 16 
and Sandy Botham had 13. · Notre 
Dame used it height advantage to 
work the inside game. 
.The Irish travel to Eastern Mic­
higan on Friday, trying to earn their 
initial victory. 

The Obser-r.•er Notre Dame office. located on the: third tloor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m .. Monday through Friday. The Obserz•er Saint Mary's oftkc:, located on the third tloor of Haggar College Centc:r. accepts dassifieds from 12:)0 p.m. until ) p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline: for nc:xt-day classified' b) p.m. All classificds must he prepaid. either in pnson or hy mail. Charge: is I 0 cc:nts per five charac­



Classifieds 
ters c:r da ·. 

NOTICES  LOOKOUT! I COULD BE THE DRIVER BEHIND YOU and my purse containing my glasses and contacs "disappeared" from Pulte's Halloween party. Please help  Lost: LJght brown cassette case in or neer D-2 student lol on 11/19 I can identify contents of the case Please return. REWARD. Call1382  PERSONALS  Skid Row...As we enter the old homestretch·. who will fall on his academic face? Ray? Pete? Nick? Potter? your guess is es good as mine. Place your bets  KATHY COLUGANI IT WAS YOUR BIRTHDAY AND YOUR NOT MAKING A BIG DEAL ABOUT IT. WHAT'S THE DEAL? LET ME TELL EVERYBODY  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117  a legally blind student by contacting me as to its whereabouts--284·5074. TO WHOEVER TOOK MY COAT FROM  FOR RENT  PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER OAR HOUSE:: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  now. ALOHA ALOHA ALOHA HELLO! Did you ever go to Madison for Hallo­ween?  ABOUT THIS PARTY ANIMAL, FOR ONE THING SHE'S THE ONLY GIRL I KNOW THAT CAN CHUG GRAIN AL· COHOL. BUT IN NO WAY IS THAT HER ONLY REDEEMING FEATURE, SHE'S ALSO PRETTY, WITTY, AND A GREAT  
TYPING SERVICE at reasonable rates. Very professionally done on the latest IBM and XEROX word procesaing equip­ment. Please call 287 ·5157. Will deliver and pic!< up. Copying service also available. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 TYPING Jacl<ieBoggs 684-8793 NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES 27Hi045 PICKUP AND DELIVERY Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call1·312-742-1142 ext. 7316. EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. CAll287-5162. LEAVE ME AlONE!!!!!! ATTENTION JUNIORS: THE MORRIS INN LOTTERY FOR JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY. NOVEMBER 29 IN THE RATHSKELLER AT 3:30 PM. All THOSE INTERESTED SHOULD COME. sPf:iiN<i'ii'iiE"Ai<--i~--ii~Yi;;;;;;·s;;;;cl;·;;;:,;;; $89, South Padre from $78. Mustang Is­land/Port Aransas $119. Steemboat Springs skiing from $79. HURRY "Breek from the Bool<a" call Sunchase Tours toll  THE 2·7 PARTY AT EAST MARION STREET ON FRIDAAY NIGHT: PLEASE RETURN IT!! I DON'T WANT TO FREEZE All WINTER LONG. I AM OF­FERING A REWARD FOR IT'S RETURN TO MY POSESSION, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. IT'S A STRIPED ABOVE THE KNEE WOOL COAT, SIZE 9. CALL NORMA AT 2808 IF YOU CAN HELP ME. LOST A BLACK LEATHER RUGBY JACKET WITH A WALLET ON SENIOR SUICIDE STOMP FRIDAY. NOV 16. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 234-7412. LOST: One yellow t·shirt at Rock on Friday afternoon a couple of weeks ago; has 'Endangered Feces' on front and '2' on bacl<. Greet sentimental value. If found or borrowed pleese call Animal at 3336. SURESHOT 35MM CAMERA LOST ON THE FIELD AFTER THE PENN ST. VIC­TORY PLEASE HELP ME SEE MY OCT. BREAK PHOTOS ON THE FILM.CALL ANYTIME SMC-5165 OR -5256! THANKS! I FOUND A NICE RiNG AT THE BARS THURS.11/15. CALL ALAN AT3267 TO IDENTIFY. Found: Khaki snap on hood with brown plad. wool lining on the football field after Penn State geme. Call Matt ]2n-6463 for return.  FOR RENT 3 brm/1 bth house near ND Perfect for grad students $425/ mo Avail Jan 1 Call 287 731 S WANTED ........................ Roommate wanted starting Jan 1 Casde Pt Apts $145/month plus Uti!. Call 2n­6463 WANTED DEAD OR ALIVE: Starboard, MJ&AI WANTED: STUDENT SPRING BREAK REPRESENTATIVES FOR COL· LEGIATE TOUR AND TRAVEL. EARN COMP TRIPS AND CASH. CALL RIGHT NOW FOR MORE INFORMATION, 612­645-4727 /8Q0-328·5697 OR WRITE TO PAULA. 2111 UNIVERSITY AVENUE, ST. PAUL, MN 55114. Wanted. Armorer for University of Notre Dame varsity fencing teem. Able to work with small tools and mechanically and electrically indined. Please contact Mike DeCicco at 239-5585. FOR SALE  CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. QUOTE OF THE WEEK: "A man is more interested in a woman who is interested in him, than he is in one with beautiful lags." FISH HEADS. FISH HEADS, ROLLY· POLLY FISH HEADS. EAT THEM UP, YUM. FILM/DISCUSSION on SUICIDE: How to recognize & deal with potential in others Counseling & Psych Serv Am. 300 lues­dey 11/27 730 pm Dr. J Mcintosh, speaker Hi AI & Michl!! WANTED: Starboard. MJ. & AI I'm still smiling at my multi~dimensional friend. Lovrva BACKSTROKE! FIVE KNOTS! HEY BABYDUCK' I HAD A BLAST!! GOOD LUCK ON EXAMS AND REMEM­BER I LOVE YOU! RED! Y'All, THANKS FOR SHOWING ME A GREAT TIME HERE AT ND! IF YOU EVER MAKE IT DOWN TO VANDYLAND LOOK ME UP! GOODLUCK ON EXAMS! LOVYA KELLY P.S. CATHY THANKS FOR PUTTING UP WITH ME, SKIP CUTE TIGHTS, MARK HOW DO YOU  Some people just have way too much ... STYLE! YOU MISSED IT!! Yesterday was SHARON EMMITE's 20th birthday. but, lucky for you. she is still accepting birthday calls and kisses at 34 Lyons. 2998. Happy 20th, Turkey Woman!! Love. Tigger and "the queer" ····································· ···················· SAB SPRING SKI EXTRAVAGANZA to Winter Park Colorado!! Info meeting Wed Nov 28 in 2D LaFortune at7 PM Mr. Wolf is a God. Theo Mejora and other ln-tlld etu­dente: Kevin McAievy-a member of the Theology Forum-will make a prMefltetlon on tha Goepel of John to­morrow, Wlld.....tey, November 28 at 10pmln341 O'Sh~~g. On the Flying Island of Laputa... PAUL WILKINS is King! ATTENTION ARTIST YOUR HELP IS NEEDED. PLEASE SHARE YOUR TALENTS WITH THE JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND-MASS COMMITTEE. WE ARE ACCEPTING DESIGNS FOR THE COVER OF THE MASS PROGRAMS. PLEASE SUBMIT TO 324 FARLEY BY DEC. 3rd. EMERGENCY MEETING of the Pro­grMelve Mualc Club: W-. Nov. 28 (tomorrow) In the Archltectu,. Bldg. lit  DANCER, SO CALL HER AND FIND OUT WHAT A TRULY SPECTACULAR WOMAN SHE IS. HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHY ... E DEAR 4TH FLOOR HOLY CROSS (SMC). We enjoyed being stood up by your entire floor. If you REALLY didn't want to go, you could have JUST told us. LOVE, Your dinner buddies at Zahm Dearest Slicl< Kels-Thanx for a wonderful breek, Ely,horses,and all. I can't wait to see you ] Christmas! I do love you-FL4 4 YEARS IN THE BAND AND THIS IS THE THANKS I GET--NO BOWL TRIP THANKS FOR THE 'REWARD' GUYS, LUV YA. P.S.--THANKS FOR BLOWING the Fiesta. which we all could've enjoyed. KURT and BAB. Wanna go to formal Fri. with 2 incredibly beautiful. witty. & wonderful Farley wo­men? Kurt, you get the loud one and Bab, you get the dumsy one. RSVP 4220 TONIGHT-It won't be that bad! ························· "Dance.Music,Sex.Romance" You heard it from Prince,now see it in the DRAMATIST.Nov30,Dec1,6,7,8. MAN WANTED:Now taking applications for boyfriends and detes.Call 284­5099.Ask for Lorri HORSE DIED: NEED RIDE TO BOSTON  
free for more informa-tion 1-8()()-321­ FOR SALE: 1963 Fender Musicmaster  SPELL GOFA AND GET THE SAME EF·  7 p.m. PURPOSE: your one and only  The bast and the worst of Observer classi­ 
5911  or contact a Sunchase Campus  electric guitar. Excellent condition. $200  FECT? CHRIS DID YOU REALLY GET A  chance to order Club t·ehlrte (bring $5  fieds  
Representative  or  your  local  Travel  IF YOU FOUND A SILVER MENS SEIKO  or best offer. Call 2651.  MOHAWK? AND FINALLY POKEY GET  lor MCh ehlrt you -nt), to diiiCUU the  
Agency TODAY!  LCD WATCH IT'S MINE. MOST LIKELY  SOME SLEEP!  future of PMC dllncee and the record  DEAR CHRISTl FROM SMC, Penn State  
LOST  ON  NORTH  QUAD  NEAR  library, and to plan lldequllle cleleneM  is awfully far away. so whyS don't you get  
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30  KEENAN HALL. PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT 3281. REWARD!$$$.  FOR SALE:  ND NOVICE CREW NO NOVICE CREW Phllly, PA  egelnllt the retum of....Deep Purple.  a boyfriend from a real school (N.D.)? A Concerned Domer  
LOST/FOUND I  MONEY$$$MONEY$$$MONEY LOST:! FIGUREDTHISWOULDGETYOURAT­TENTION.NOW WOULD YOU PLEASE RETURN MY WALLET THAT YOU STOLE FROM ME WHILE I WAS  '72Skylark Body: Poor Engine: Good $500 or bell! offer .Mil 288-2042  Since The Observer did not write a story on ND Novice Crew, here are the details: Fourty-two people, listed below, traveled to Philly, PA. the weekend of the Yugos­lavia b-ball geme, the Fixx concert, the Penn State geme, the lnterhall !-ball  ARTS AND LETTERS SENIORS, ARTS AND LETTERS SENIOR&-FIRST NA­TIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO PRESENTATION/RECEPTION, WED., NOV 28 7-11:00 P.M., ALUMNI ROOM OF MORRIS INN. ALL INVITED.  BIG GUY. Top Dog, Big Cheese, Austria-man! This counts as three letters. Atari misses you. Roids says "NO!" (not yet) Ach du Iieber! Are the Alps and the baerhouses  
SHOWERING AT THE ACC TO THEIR  gemes, and the Rocky Horror Pic Show to  reedy for us? The Alps are going down!'!  
LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH MIS­SOURI ID. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON SAT. PLEASE CONTACT 3085.  LOST&FOUND.YOU CAN KEEP THE D<>LlAR OR PLACE IT IN THE COLLEC­TION BASKET ON SUNDAY AND MAKE BOTH OF US FEEL BETTER.  FOR SALE: AM/FM/CASSETTE CAR STEREO,TWO 6-IN. COAXIAL SPEAKERS-HARDLY USED,EXCELLENT COND. $50 OR B.O. CALL MARK ]289-7084  represent Notre Dame in a sport where the athletes sit on their asses and go backwards. Needless to say, Notre Dame dominated. THEY CONQUERED Congrats to: Karen. Kathy, Leura,  Ml Mundo, Thanks for Thanksgiving and for just being there. Your smiling lace and constant love Is making this year the best ever!  (Fraulein. auch?) Signed, the H.Q. of gatherings. P.S., Miss you lots. Write us sometime. PLEASE!!! Newest stud­puppy, the SAA8-god.  
LOST: GOLD CHARM BRACELET, THURS NTE. REWARD OFFERED!! CALL1822.  LOST; (SMC) OUR DINNER DATES AT 5:30P.M.  for sale! 76'VW RABBIT greet conditions for info ca1t 1459  Andree, Megan, Catherine, Carol, Gretchen, and Margo. Lori, Margy, Sue, Chris, Kathy, Molly, Amy. Colleen, and Carol. Mark, Corey, Bill, Eric, Bill, Bill,  Meklng conlllct... Meldng contec:t... Making contact ...  Steve Auerbach is CRAZY.Iike a snake! Jim Maclennan has NOTHING to say to NOBODY today!  
Todd,  Kevin, and Grag.  Mugs,  Elinor,  
LOST; CO-EX FOR DINNER AT SMC  John, Paul, Mark. Stephanie, Jeff.  GUMBY LIVES!!!  
WHOEVER MISTOOK MY "LONDON FOG" RAINCOAT FOR THEIRS FRIDAY  FOUND; (SMC) OUR DINNER DATES AT 6:00P.M. GIRLS, NEXT TIME LET'S  TICKETS  STARBOARDS GIVE ME MORE!II  Quote of the O.y: "If you want to be a physicist you have to be damn good In physics, or If you  POKEY TOOl!!  
MORNING AT THE SOUTH CAFE. I'D  SYNCHRONIZE OUR WATCHES.  want to go into math you have to be very  Mich... Melnick  
LIKE MINE BACK. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. RETURN TO THE SOUTH  FOUND: WATCH. If the watch you lost is  NEED 2 SETS OF 21NDIANA TIX·KEVIN  Dicl<ey  Greene!!! Dicl<ey Dicl<ey Greene!!!  Greene!!!  goodat mathematics, butyou can bejust an average engineer."  Happy Belaled 21st Birthday!!!You're ~­nally be able to go to quarter baers.Live it  
CAFE BASEMENT OFFICE-PLEASE.  the one I found. call me (Linde) at 4215.  3562  up! Love, the gang  
l  

The Observer Tuesday, November 27, 1984 -page 9 
SObering
Advice .· 
can 
alife 

~--· 


••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• BYU remains


: CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
•••••• • ••• •••• NOW RENTING FOR FALL'85 
• reserve NOW !••• CALL 272-1441 

; • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e e •' place votes and 1,134 of a possible
OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT 
VETERANS.YOUR 
PAST CAN BE WORTH 
WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! JAPAN • EUROPE • AFRICA • AUSTRALIA • THE SOUTH 

$1.946AYEAR.
PACIFIC-SOUTHAMERICA·THE FAR EAST. 
By joining the Army Reserve, you can make your militaryEXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! 
experience pay off in many ways.

FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS! 
More than 300,000 Americans -not including members of the armed services -are now living overseas. These people are engaged in nearly everypossible activi· ty ... construction, engineer­ing, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accoun­ting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, governntent, etc.-etc. And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000 per month ... or more! 
To allow you the op­portunity to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and compil­ed a new and exciting direc­tory on overseas employ­ment. Here is just a sample of what our International Employment Directory covers. 
(1). Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship com­panies, both on the east and west coast. You will be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, restaurant help, cooks, bartenders, just to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Ap· plication Forms that you may send directly to the companies you would like to work for. 
(2). Firms and organiza­tions employing all types of personnel in Australia, 
For instance, if you're an E-5 with four years' military experi­ence, you11 earn an extra income of more than $1,946 a year, to start.
Japan, Africa, The South You11 get your mUitary benefits back. Like your PX privUeges.
Pacific, The Far East, South 
And the opportunity to increase your credit toward retirement. 
America...nearly every part Ifyou join the Reserve within 30 months of your discharge, 
of the free world! 
you11 get your former rank back, too. 

(3). Companies and 
But what we think you11 enjoy most is leading and instruct­Government agencies 
ing new Reservists who want to train in your military specialty. employing personnel in near­
Ifyou have one weekend a month and two weeks a year to ly every occupation, from 
spare, why not cash in your past? Call us or stop by. the unskilled Ia borer to the college trained professional 
SGT. Messner 234-4187 
man or woman. (4). Firms and organiza· 
ARMY RESERVE.
lions engaged in foreign con­struction projects, m anufac­
BEALLYOU CAN BE. turing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc., etc. 
(5). How and where to ap­ply for overseas Government jobs. 
(6). Information about summer jobs. 
(7). You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest... jam-packed with in­formation about current job opportunities. Special sec­tions features news of overseas construction pro­jects, executive positions and teaching opportunities. 
90 Day Money
Back Guarantee 
Our International Employ­
depeftdable new dGwatGWD Chicqo service. 
TO DOWNTOWN CHICAGO 
LEAVE  LEAVE  
BIG BEAR  NOTRE  
TOWN & COUNTRY  DAME  
5:45A.M.  ~:00 A.M.  
ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
ART  MARSHALL  
INSTITUTE  FIELD'S  
8:50A.M.  9:00A.M.  

FROM DOWNTOWN CHICAGO 
LEAVE LEAVE MCDONALD'S MIDWAY 220 N. MICHIGAN AIRPORT 
ORDER FORM 
6:00P.M. 6:45P.M. 
LEAVE SOUTH BEND AIRPORT 
6:15A.M. 
ARRIVE WATER TOWER PLACE 
9:15A.M. 
ARRIVE SOUTH BEND AIRPORT 
8:45P.M. 

: 
on top of AP

•••• football poll 
: A.ssoclated Press 
•
• Brigham Young held onto its No. 1 
• ranking in the Associated Press col­
• 
lege football poll, but second-place e Oklahoma closed the gap ap­e preciably. e BYU, which became No. 1 last e week for the first time ever, com· e pleted a 12-0 regular season by 

• 
defeating Utah State 38-13. The 

• 
Cougars, who will face Michigan in 

• 
the Holiday Bowl, received 35 first­


1, 180  points  from  a  nationwide  
panel  of  sports  writers  and  
sportscasters.  

Meanwhile, Oklahoma downed third-ranked Oklahoma State 24-14 to earn a share of the Big Eight crown with Nebraska and a trip to the Orange Bowl. The Sooners, 9-I· 1 , received 18 first-place votes and I,128 point'i. 
Florida moved up from fourth to third with five first-place votes and 1,048 points, while Oklahoma State slipped to ninth place. The Gators, who were ruled ineligible for a bowl game last week by the Southeastern Conference after winning the SEC championship, are 8-1-l and wind up their season Saturday against Florida State. 
Washington, Oklahoma's Orange Bowl opponent, climbed from fifth place to fourth with one first-place ballot and 991 points. The Huskies completed a 10-1 regular season a week ago. 
Sugar Bowl-bound Nebraska, 9-2, vaulted from seventh place to fifth with 939 points. 
Texas, No. 6 last week, was upset by Baylor 24-10 and skidded to 13th place with a 7-2-1 record. Mean· while, Rose Bowl-bound Ohio State, 9-2, rose from eighth to sixth with 837 points. 

South Carolina's 22-21 triumph over Clemson enabled the I 0-1 Gamecocks to jump from ninth to seventh with 830 points. Boston College's dramatic 47-45 last· second victory over Miami jumped the 8-2 Eagles from I Orh to eighth with 764 points, barely in front of9­2 Oklahoma State, which received 762 points. OSU will play South Carolina in the Gator Bowl. 
Southern Methodist, II th last week, defeated Arkansas 31-28 and received 612 points to round out the Top Ten. 
The Second Ten consists of Auburn, Florida State, Texas, UiU, Maryland, Miami, UCLA, Georgia, Notre Dame and Southern Califor· nia. 
I.ast week, lt was SMU, Mlaml, Auburn, Southern Cal, Florida State, LSU, Texas Christian, Maryland, UCLA and Georgia. 
TCU lost to Texas A&M 35-21 and fell out of the Top Twenty after a four-week stay whlle Notre Dame defeated Southern Cal 19-7 and cracked the ranklngs for the first time in eight weeks. 
APTopT_,ty 
The Top Twenty college foolbalt leamoln Tha Auocleted p,_ poll, wtlh first-place vot• In parenlh-. lhia oeuon'a recorda and total pofnto. Points based on 20-11H8-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are lt.Jiclzed. 
1. Brigham Young (35) 12-o-o 1,13-1 2. Oklahoma (18) ~1-1 1,128 3. Florida (5) 8-1-1 1,048 4. Washington (1) 1D-1·0 9111 5. Nebraal<a ~2-o 838 6. Ohio Slale ~2-0 837 7. South c.tollna 1().1-0 830 8. Boelon College 8-2-o 7&1 9. Oklahoma Slale ~2-o 762 10. So. Methodiat 8-2-o 1!12 11. Aubum 8-3-o 531 12. Florida Slate 7-2·1 4&4 13. Texaa 7-2-1 430 
14. LSU 8-2-1 427 
15. Maryland 8-3-0 381 16. Miami (Fla.) 8-4-0 325 
17. UCLA 8-3-0 222 18. Georgia 7-3-0 Ul3 11. Noire Deme 7-4-0 111 20. Southern Cal 8·3-0 83 

ment Directory is sent to you with this guarantee. If for any reason you do not obtain overseas employment or you are not satisfied with the job offers ... simply return our Directory within 90 days and we'll refund your money pro­mptly ...no questions asked. 
International Employment Directory 131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, WA 98531 
Please send me a copy of your International Employment Dlrectoey. I understand that I may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis I'm enclosing $20.00 cash .... check .... or money order .... for your Dlrectoey. 
NAME ____ 
plene print 

ADDRESS. _____________APT fl ________ 
CITY____ _______STATE ____ZIP International Employment Directory 1984 
LEAVE OSCEOLA OFFICE 
5:10A.M. 
ARRIVE 
MIDWAY 
AIRPORT 
8:15A.M. 


ARRIVE NOTRE DAME  ARRIVE BIG BEAR TOWN & COUNTRY  ARRIVE OSCEOLA OFFICE  
9:00P.M.  9:15P.M.  9:JO P.M.  

l.ide United Umo 10 Midway Airport and Downaown Clicap Same Day llehU'Il CALL YOU& TUVIL AGENT 0& UNITED WIO 



674-6993 
10844 u.s. 10 (one and one·half mila east of linenweet) Osceola, Indiana 46561 
Tuesday, November 27, 1984-page 10 
The Observer 
Sundey'e Reeulte Notre Dame 67, Menhe~n 52
Irish 
Manhattan (52) M FG-A FT-A R F P continuedfrom page 12 Cain 28 5-9 0-0 3 3 10 
gling Irish at one point in the first Williams 18 1-4 o-o 4 1 2 

26 1-3 2-2 5 4 4
half, grabbing a 12-10 lead on guard Parent 
343-50-0246
Lawson
Jim Hautler's driving layup. The 
31 6-6 0-0 0 4 12
Haulier
Jaspers held an advantage for much 10 1-2 0-0 1 1 2
Roberts
of the next eight minutes, but the Johnson 10 0-1 3-4 1 4 3 60-0D-0010
Irish managed to come away with a Klemick 
3 1-1 0-0 2 1 2
two-point halftime lead at 32-30. Schiano 
20 1-3 o-o s 4 2McLellan
In the second half, Notre Dame in­13 3-4 3-7 1 5 9
Chance 
troduced its own version of a 10-0 0-0000
Hall 
200 22-38 8-13 24 32 52
popularbeer commercial-Kempton 
FG Pet. -.579. FT Pet. -.615. Team
Time. The Irish junior went on a 
rebounds-1. Turnovers-30. Assists-10 
tear, throwing in a game-high 15 
(Cain, Lawson, Haulier 2). Technicals-
points after having been held score­
none. 
Notre Dame (67) M FG-A FT·A R F P 
less in the initial session. 
His layup with just under three 

19 3-5 1-3 4 0 7
Royal
minutes gone in the half snapped a 34 4-8 2-3 5 3 10
Barlow Kempton

34-34 tie and the Irish never looked 27 3-7 9-10 7 4 15 31 4-13 6-8 1 2 14
back. The big redhead was 9-for-1 0 Rivers 
30 4-7 5-6 3 2 13
from the free throw line, making his Hicks 
1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0Newell 

first nine before missing the tenth. "The better team won," said Man­
hattan's spunky coach Gordon Chiesa. "Give Notre Dame credit. It's a top 20 team. We're not a patsy, 
but Notre Dame will play better with better competition. "You just don't win against Notre Dame with 30 turnovers. We just made too many turnovers, some of them forced but many of them un­

forced." Phelps was especially pleased with the play of Joseph Price in the game. The junior swingman came off the bench to spark the Irish defense. Playing small forward, Price held Manhattan's top gun Tim Cain to only four points in the first half. "Price really did a job defensively on Cain," Phelps said. "He can play the defensive forward even better than he plays the second guard. We can use bench play like that all year." Hautler led the Jaspers with 12 points on six-of-six shooting, while Cain chipped in 10 of his own. Man· hattan shot 58 percent from the field for the game, after firing at a 65 per­cent dip in the first half. IRISH ITEMS · Notre Dame's Jim Dolan did not play in the game be­cause ofa shoulder injury suffered in the Yugoslavia exhibition but should be ready for Thursday night's game with Northwestern at the ACC. ... Sick of seeing poor officiat­ing by Big Ten refs at some of Notre Dame's biggest home games? Well, Phelps was, and he took action. Refs from the Mid-American Conference worked Sunday's game and you'll see refs from an assortment of con­ferences at the ACC this year. Three referees from the Atlantic Coast Conference, who also worked at last year's Final Four, will be in to do next Tuesday's big Indiana game. After three years of unanswered complaints about Big Ten official· ing, Phelps plans to avoid using Jim Bain and friends. 

Aloha 
continuedfrom page 12 


ney continuing to impress everyone with his field-goal accuracy, the outcome was never really in doubt. Southern Cal could not move the 
ball closer than the ND 28-yard line after it scored eight minutes into the second quarter. Obviously, the fact that the Trojans outgained the Irish, 346-242, in total yards meant little. 
Who knows what the fast 1984 
finish and the Aloha Bowl will mean for the future of Faust and his team, but it does not matter right now.lt is enjoyable enough to look into the polls and see Notre Dame's name once again. Maybe it will stay there for many years to come. 
Correction 

Because of an editing error in The Obseroer of Nov. 19, the names of two interhall flag foot· ball coaches were switched. Jerry Judd is the coach of Pasquerilla East and John Janicki is the coach ofFarley. 
Beeuwsaert  16  1-2  0-2  4  2  2  
Duff  13  o-o  2-2  o  o  2  
Peters  1  o-o  o-oooo  
Bowen  1 22  o-o 1-4  o-oooo 2-2 2 4 4 

Price 

50-00-0100
Voce 200 20-47 27-36 27 17 67 

FG Pet. -.426. FT Pet. -.750. Team rebounds-0. Turnovers-18. Assists-7 (Rivers 3). Technicals-none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 32, Manhattan 


SENIORS • TAKE A CHANCE Learn, Grow, Give and Love 
for more info: 

M.J. Murray
Mary Ann Roemer 

Associate Office 
Center for Social Concerns 
239-5521 
239-7949 


HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 


~4(Jt~C]L~------------------------------------·T-u.e.sd_.ay_,_N_o_v.em
__b_e_r.27_,_1_9_8_4___P_ag_e___ll 
Doonesbury 

HtY, C'MON, fJUANe, >rJU WERE ReSPONSIIU FOR. 50M£ /YfAJa?. 7/efATTC /JREIII(!}(/((Xf6 7!(15 E:/.ECTTON! t.JK6 FtiWlROi THAT 
l(t45 A ~61JT5Y 010/C& I 
/ 
OKAY. WE'RE H€1?€. 1/NP T/Ef£'5 7HE ~IIJNEE~HEES. NOW 6() IN THERE • lt11N&U. IINP &1(/lfJ fMI. ffX1{ 8/U. ~ CI/T. 
6111.P/ 


Garry Trudeau 
Campus
'!rXJ MtAN, YOU.. HeY, I1ER. FIL£ )f)(J CIKli& HER SA/0 "65RR.r. 
~ HERNHU15? I F!Gl/REO •12 -2 p.m. -Kellogg Institute Seminar, "Popular

\ A GUY. 

Sectors' as a Research Project at a Kellogg Insti­
tute,"James Holston and Renato Ortiz, Kellogg Fel­
lows, Room 131 Declo Hall. 
•3:30 
p.m. -Research Seminar, "Averaging Theory for Mixtures-Old and New," Stephen Pas­sman, Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by Civil Engineering Dept. 

•4:30p.m.-Mathematical
Seminar,"Algebraic K­Theory of Spaces," Professor R. M. Vogt, U. of Os­nabrock, West Germany, Visiting Prof. at Ohio State, Room 300 CCMB. 

•4:30 
p.m. -BiologySeminar, "CascadingTrophic


Tank McNamara Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds Interactions: Effects on Lake Ecosystem Productiv· 


j
ity," Dr. Stephen Carpenter, ND, Room 278 Galvin. 
j
•7-9 p.m.-Presentation, Morgan Stanley & Co., For A&L and BBA Seniors, Notre Dame Room, Mor­ris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 
j
•7 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Effects ofMilitary Spending on the Economy," Scott Trees, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Faculty Seminar Lecture Series, "The Founding Picture: Morse's Congress in Night Session," Garry Wills, Welch Visiting Professor of American Studies, CCE Auditorium. 

•7:30p.m.-TuesdayNightFilmSeries, 
"Gian", Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Film-Discussion, "Suiclde: How to 


Bl0001 Comity Berke Breathed TheFar Side Gary Larson Recognize and Deal With Suicide Potential in 


Others," Dr. John Mcintosh, IUSB, Room 300, Counseling & Psychological Services Center, Sponsored by Counseling & Pschological Services, Free. 
•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Notre Dame Shakespeare Club, Uttle Theatre, LaFortune. 

•8 
p.m. -Kellogg Institute PubUc Lecture, "Prospects for Peace & Development in Nicaragua," Ambassador Carlos Tunnermann, Washington Hall. 



TV Tonight 
8:00p.m. 16 TheA-Team 22 Aftermash 28 Three's A Crowd ~ Nova 
8:30p.m. 28 Who's the Boss? 
9:00p.m. 16 Riptide 22 Movie· A Touch ofScandal 28 Paper Dolls ~ Frontline 
!O:OOp.m. 16 Remington Steele 
"Foster! You beHer get over here II you want to see Meeher's hangnail magnlllecl 500 limes." 
28 Jessie ~ The Constitution· That Delicate Bal­ance 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 35 Heredity basis 58 Personalities 10 -three 41 Hindu caste 50 Opposed to 1 Copycat 36 Hat or horse 59 Sheepish (a few) 44 Foam 51 Wood-shaping 5 Disconcert 37 Recliner 60 Pound the poet 11 Stranded 46 At -(puzzled) tool 
1 0 The one there 38 June 6, 1944 12 Cruising 47 Race: pref. 52 "If I -king" 14 "Forsyte" tale 48 Large number 53 Cheese 15 Vlve -I 61 Big hits 49 Shakespearean 56 -had It!
39 Ordinal suffix 62 Domingo for 13 Eng. river villain 57 Court divider 40 Rock of mostly 18 Punish In a 

quartz

16 Sagacious 63 Abound way 
one Tuesday's Solution
41 Author Jules 

17 Nervous 23 Slimy 19 S-shaped 24 School for 
42 Neptune's realm

molding short
DOWN 1 Tennis notable 2 Poker opening 25 Check the 
20 Hesitation 43 Draws a bead on 3 Breakfast dish accountssounds 44 Plaintiff's 26 Yearns21 Hammer head need 27 Hackneyed22 Hullabaloos 45 Geological 4 Word of cheer 28 Everywhere
24 Sarcastic 5 Modlfi·3S
formation 29 Flies high 25 Gr. marketplace 47 Corn units 6 Basquecap 31 Frivolous7 -for one's 32 Hen 

money
26 Rival of Sparta 48 Moves crabwise 29 Canal 50 Envelope abbr. 34 Motif 30 Nothing 51 Reverence 8 Offspring 37 Golf play 33 Neck trouble 54 Fr. composer 9 In-(at full 38 Moistens 34 Now 55 Domineering speed) 40 Wrap 

©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
11/27/84

All Rights Reserved 

for late night munchies 
PLANTS
••PLANTS••PLANTS••PLANTS••PLANTS•• PLANTS I


r---------------------------------·I
. RYOUR I PLANT NEEDs ~'t\s 1 
G~0 
i

4S~ I
DIAL 283-4242 
_\'P 
Mon-Sat 12:30-5:30 I 
1

-Order corsages and wrapped flowers in advance.J 
·--------------------------------­


------------------------. 
Tu~sday, November 27, 1984-page 12



SRorts 
Notre Dame earns Aloha trip with victory at USC 

USC tailback Fred Crotcber gets sandwiched by Irish defenders Mike Kovaleski (49), Rick DiBer· nardo and Wally Kleine in action prior to the heavy rains in the LA Coliseum. Notre Dame won 
ND gets fourth-straight win in rain-soaked LA Coliseum 
By MIKE SULLIVAN geles Quagmire. "They played with Sports Editor adversity because there were a lot of injuries, but they are a very good 
Think back to a time about five team when healthy." weeks ago -October 20, 1984, to be The Irish were definitely good exact. enough to earn a bid to the Aloha 
It was the third straight rain­. Bowl which will be played in soaked home game, and the Notre Honolulu on December 29. South· Dame football team had just lost its ern Methodist, the No. 10 team in third game in a row, this time to the country, probably will be the op­South Carolina, to fall to 3-4 on the ponent. There is still an outside season. Sixth-ranked LSU was next chance, though, that Texas could on the schedule and Penn State and wind up in the Aloha. For that to hap­Southern Cal were still ahead also. A pen, the Longhorns would have to losing record seemed to be a good lose to Texas A&M next Saturday possibility. (possible) and the Houston Cougars 
But, as always, Head Coach Gerry would have to lose to Rice (highly Faust remained optimistic about his unlikely). If both teams lose, the team's chances. Mustangs will represent the South­
"You guys probably think I'm west Conference in the Cotton crazy, but I still think we're going to Bowl. finish 7-4," he said to the press after the game. 
Now raise your hand if you felt AP Poll on page 9 that Faust was being realistic. Unless you were a player, you 
Perhaps it is only fitting that the probably just shook your head at his 
Irish will be spending part of the optimistic prediction. Even two 
holidays in far-away Hawaii. After all, weeks ago, it looked like the Irish 
they have had to travel a very long were going to have a tough time 
road to have even a chance to go.breaking .500 after they barely
Versyp leads Boilers "With all the losses and criticism squeaked past Navy. 
early in the year, we began to realize But then again, the guy who in­
that all we had was ourselves," said 

Purdue hands Irish second defeat 
vented the term "roller-coaster 
tailback Allen Pinkett, who became year" must have had Notre Dame in 
By CHUCK FREEBY coupled with a 62-57 defeat to Ten­I 7-6 lead with 13:I2 left in the first Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer 
mind.
Sports Writer nessee on Saturday, dropped their half." The crisp execution soon when he squirted into the end zone 
Notre Dame, the team that has
record to 0-2 and provided a major turned to a flood of mistakes by the from the three-yard line late in the 
drawn so much criticism for not
They came from the Princess City setback to any progress the team had Irish, as Purdue took advantage of first half Saturday. "We just went out 
playing up to its potential, finally
in numbers ·· I,445 of them to be made in the first month ofpractice. four consecutive Irish turnovers to there to win for ourselves. Once we 
broke out and showed that it does
exact --to see what had been billed Notre Dame coach Mary DiStanis­storm back with a I3-2 spurt, started getting people back, we 
indeed have a great deal oftalent.
by many to be "The Sharon Versyp lao was, to say the least, frustrated by capped by janet Fruend's three­knew we'd fine." 
With impressive wins over Penn
Show." They had to wait through her team's play, which saw the Irish point play, and tied the game at I9 Pinkett is usually the unofficial 
State and Southern Cal, the Irish now
nearly 36 minutes ofaction to see it, commit 27 turnovers and get out­only four minutes later. spokesman for the team, so it is not 
are starting to prove that the pol­
but what they saw was worth the rebounded by a much smaller The Irish answered with their surprising that others echoed his 
lsters were not crazy for picking
price ofadmission. Purdue squad, 48-36. own string ofpoints, using a series of comments. 
Notre Dame to finish in the top ten 
"We never lost confidence in our­in the country. Although the polls
Versyp, a 5-8 freshman guard from "A loss like this is hard to take," back door plays to bolt to a 35-28 
Mishawaka who earned the honor of said DiStanislao in subdued tones af. halftime lead. Carrie Bates fired in selves," said quarterback Steve 
may not agree, Notre Dame has
Miss Basketball of Indiana last year, terwards. "When you have a game, seven of her game-high I 5 points to Beuerlein who was 7-of-17 passing
shown that it is now one of the top
scored eight of her 13 points in the you have to go out and play, and we key the drive, as the Irish were able for I22 yards and a touchdown. 
several teams in the country -when
waning minutes to lead Purdue to a didn't do that tonight. Purdue to capitalize on their height to use "Naturally, we were very disap­
healthy.
stunning 62·59 upset of Notre Dame played all 40 minutes, and we didn't. the low post. pointed after the Miami ( 3 I-I3) and 
"I'm happy for the players be­
in women's basketball action last We were outhustled and out­The momentum built from that Air Force ( 2I-7) losses because it's 
cause they deserved it," said the
night at the Athletic and Convoca­determined." spurt carried right through the inter· always tough losing, but we knew 
prophet, Gerry Faust, after his team
tion Center. It appeared as though the Irish mission, as Notre Dame upped the we could do it." 
capped off its 7-4 regular season
For Purdue, the win opened the would cruise early in their home margin to I 5 points early in the What the Irish did was win all of with a I9·7 win over the Trojans on their games in November, a month
season and gave a budding program opener. Notre Dame hit its first 
see UPSET, page 8 

Saturday in the rain-soaked Los An· in which they had been 3-8 over the past three years. They also will end the regular season in the Top Twenty for the first time since 1980. 
respectability. For the Irish, the loss, seven shots from the floor to build a 

Basketball team opens 

Ironically, the game that put Notre Dame back into the polls and into the Aloha Bowl was played in
with win over Jaspers the Coliseum, a place where Notre Dame had not won since I966. In fact, before Faust began coaching
ByJEFF BLUMB cause they are a well-coached the Irish, they had only beaten the
Assistant Sports Editor team." 
Trojans three times since 1965.
"Those city teams are tough," Those wins came in 1966, I973 andUpsets here. Upsets there. Near­added Irish assistant Pete Gillen. 
I977 · all years in which Notre
upsets all over. Early-season games "No matter what city it is, NewYork", Dame won the national champion­have not been kind to many of the Philly or D.C., they'll always give you ship.
favorites in the I984-85 college bas­a battle." 
The key to the game was simple.
ketball season. In the first minute of the game, it The Irish made very few mistakes
For a while on Sunday night, it ap­looked like Notre Dame's freshman despite the awful condition of the
peared that the Notre Dame guard David Rivers was going to put field -"I've never played in worse
basketball team might be heading on another basketball clinic, similar circumstances," said Beuerlein ­toward the same fate that Illinois and to what he did in the intrasquad while the Trojans killed themselvesKansas have already suffered this game and against the Zadar Club of with eight fumbles, losing six ofyear -an early-season loss to a Yugoslavia in an exhibition. Rivers them.
seemingly inferior opponent. When fed Donald Royal for an easy layup While USC quarterback Tim
it was all over, though, the Irish, be­right off the bat and followed that Green fumbled five snaps in thehind Tim Kempton's I 5 second-half with an eight-foot jumper ofhis own mud, Beuerlein and center Mike Kel­points, had dodged the bullet, for a quick 4-0 Irish lead. 
ley handled each exchange flaw­beating Manhattan, 67-52, to open But the freshman got into some lessly, something they could not do
their season. early foul trouble and his shooting early in the season.
By no stretch of the imagination cooled off. On the night, he would "We have had troubles with the
was the win an easy one for Notre convert on only 4-of-I3 field goal snap, so I was really conscientiousDame. The Irish struggled early and tries. Still, Phelps was very pleased about it," explained Beuerlein. "Ioften before finally overcoming the with the play ofhis point guard. 
just made sure that I stuck my hands
stubborn jaspers. "I was very satisfied with his play," in there and didn't pull them out too"Upsets are going to happen early said Phelps afterward. "He needs fast."
this year," said Notre Dame coach game experience, and he got a lot of 
' . 
With the Irish holding on to the
Digger Phelps, "and Manhattan al­it tonight (31 minutes). In fact, we '.) \: footi>all, with defensive linemen
most pulled one off. They played were able to allow all the freshmen Wally Kleine and Mike Gann tossingvery hard, like typical New York to get their feet wet." The Obscrvcr/Jobanncs Haem·
-
-

Trojans around, and with john Car-
teams, which is what we needed to Manhattan overtook the strug-Lynn Ebben (left) and Mary Gavin applypressure to Sharon Ver­
wllke us up, get us going. We knew syp (10) in tbe Notre Dame loss to Purdue last night. Versyp 
see ALOHA, page 10 
we would have a tough game be-see IRISH, page 10 sparked tbe Boilers to a late rally to upset tbe Irish. 






