N.H. Primary -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 95 the indqwndclll ~llldnH ncw~papcr ~en ing notrt dame ;md ~ailll mar~·~ TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1984 


Break-ins decrease after three arrested 
ByJOHN MENNELL because of flags. beer banners, StaffReportet· bicycles and out of state license plates on cars parked in front of 
Since the arrest of three alleged houses. burglars last fall, residential break­Most of the burglaries at student ins in the Notre Dame area have houses happen~·<.!. "on tht· spur of been drastically reduced. the moment," Way said, "although 
Reported burglaries peaked for some were more extensively 1983 in July, prior to the arrests. planned." Since the arrests, the number of One technique burglars usc is to burglaries has decreased to just 16 stake out a student house during a in.January. 1984. party. They can then learn where 
Many of these crimes are against everything is located, and return at c; students. "Students are prime tar­or 6 a.m. when the rt·sidents art· as­gets for burglaries because of their leep and hungovcr and take what regular hours and stereos," accord­they want. Because students wen: ing to Corporal Douglas Way of the up all night. they usually sleep South Bend Police Department. through the intrusion. 
One suspect committed most of Asked if he had any trouble enter· his crimes against student's homes ing an occupied home. one suspt-ct and apartments. lie told Way stu­replied students never locked their dent homes were easy to pick out doors while they were home. 
South Bend Siberia is expected to remain sub-zero today in South Bend Increase of burglaries 
Sophomores Dan Knaus and Bob Boucher of along with occasional snou•. The temperature in Fort Pangborn brave the blustery weather as they beadfor Lauderdale was 77 and in Los Angeles it was 72 and 
on D-2 cars reported
class along the South quadyesterday. The temperature clear. 
By ROBERT SIENKIEWICZ trouble of buying locks ti>r their News Staff tops. As for precautionary measures 
Over S70,000 worth ofT-tops in Security was taking, Terry said the tht· South Bend area have been night crew had two pcopk on Associated Press -Entered a dispute involving mil­to be victims of illegal age dis­stolen in the past four months grounds and student lot patrol. lie lions ofdollars in welfare benefits by crimination. , reported Sgt. Sam Walsh of Crime said one plain car routinely patrols 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme agreeing to an administration re­In the case involving transporting Stoppers. Each set of tops is valued the lots. A request for additional Court, rejecting arguments that it quest to review a ruling favoring nuclear waste, the federal rule between $800 and $1600. lighting has also been made. could lead to a catastrophe, yester­California recipients of Aid for De­preempted a growing number of According to Campus Security, at day allowed trucks to continue pendent Children. The administra­state and local regulations restrict­least three thefts have occured at In the two times Thompson's car transporting radioactive materials tion says some 45,000 California ing shipments of radioactive Notre Dame. Senior AI Thompson. was broken into, the same type of on highways passing through dense­families are getting an average S83 materials. whose car has been broken into entry was used. Also on the same ly populated cities. more per month than Congress in­The administration. adopting a tWice. said the thieves first broke his nights, other cars in the South Bend 
tended when it cut federal spending rule that was drafted by the Carter windows and then removed the area wne also burglarized. Sgt. 
The administration said it careful­in 1981. Admininstration, decided it was tops, valued at $600 each, from his Walsh said the same group is ly weighed the consequences before safer to use interstate highways that car. Although the car was parked in probably rcsponsibk. adopting a rule in 1981 that permits -Refused to become embroiled passed through urban areas than lo­D-2 at the time of the incident, Uni­Walsh reported a group of five to radioactive material to be carried in in the case of Walter Polovchak, the cal roads that bypassed the cities but versity insurance did not cover the six black males steal the tops loca11y trucks on interstate highways. The Soviet youth who refused to return were in poorer condition. replacement cost. and take them to northwestern In­risk of a major disaster is home with his parents four years New York City officials filed suit This prompted Thompson to buy diana, where they arc sold to salvage "infinitesimal," Transporation ago. The decision still h;aves the fate in March 1981, claiming the rule locks for his tops. The second time yards. These yards in turn resell Department officials concluded. of the boy -who is living in was illegal because the federal his car was broken into. the thieves them as either new or replacement 
The court dismissed an appeal by Chicago -very much in doubt. government had not conducted a were unsuccessful. The locks are not parts. New York City and New York state formal study of the environmental foolproof; they only slow down the Thompson has both an alarm sys­officials who said the Reagan ad­-Agreed to decide whether impact. Such studies are required time ofthe theft. according to Direc­tem and . locks on his car now. ministration has failed to address Trans World Airlines must com­under the 1969 National Environ­tor of Security Glenn Terry. He also According to Thompson. "Students adequately the possible pensate pilots who were prevented mental Policy Act, said the city in a said burglar alarms will work well, should be aware of the problem. I "catastrophic" impact on the en­from taking lower-ranking jobs as suit that was joined by New York too. Terry added some ofthe owners was never aware until it happened to vironment of a highway accident flight engineers when they became state and Sullivan County, N.Y. have not even gone through the me involving nuclear waste. 60. The court will review a ruling 
Among other actions yesterday. that TWA owes back pay and other the court: benefits to I 0 pilots who were found 

Court allows radiation transport 
Nuns promote unity in SMC dormObserver announces 
By KIT CONLEY would be hampered. She now feels hall directors. Aftn an increase in News Staff fortunate because she has the oppor­enrollment. those few sisters were tunity to have a contact with the sis­asked to vacate their dorm rooms to

two new promotions 
In a move to provide more inter­ters other students do not have. make room for incoming students. 
Mark Worscheh, a junior call for improvements in the training action between nuns and students at Junior Kathleen Papc likes the cconomics-ALPA major. has been and managing of editors, reporters Saint Mary's, two Sisters of the Holy idea of living with the nuns because Presently. the sbters receive one named managing editor and David and layout artists. He also hopes to Cross have moved into one of the in all her years at Saint Mary's she year appointments after having suc­
Taiclet, a junior finance major, has upgrade the public image of the residence halls. Sister Elena Malits had never taken the initiative to get cessfully completed an interview by been named business manager for newspaper. and Sister Veronkc Fisher said they to know any sisters well. She a committee of staff and students. the 1984-85 Observer. As business manager, Taiclet will want to foster better religious, believes the students no longer feel Like all staff members, the nuns arc 
Worscheh. from Houston, Texas, oversee The Observer's 5250,000 educational and social tics in the intimidated and would like to ~ce evaluated at the end of each semes­has been a news editor for The Ob­annual budget. College community. The sisters. more of this in other dorms. Her on­ter. sen,er since March 1983. His duties Taiclet lives in Monterey, Ind., now living in the basement of Holy ly concern is whether the nuns arc According to Fisher. she loves 
included organizing news stories, and has worked for the last three Cross Hall. hope to provide services, taking rooms from students who living in Holy Cross. "I attend week­
assigning photos, coordinating spe­summers on the business staff of and work with the residence direc­might then be placed in temporary ly staff meetings and I feel that we cial feature pages and overseeing a Buckeye Feed & Supply, Inc. His tor and staff. housing. arc able to bring Campus Ministry staff of more than I00 reporters. As duties included preparing daily sales At first, students were ap­Director of Residence Life Pat Ris­closer to the students." news editor, he served on the 1983-invoices and purchases, overseeing prehensive. Many students opposed smeyer is very optimistic about the The sisters have Mass in their 
84 general board ofthe newspaper. past due receivables and credit the idea because they thought the program, but says Saint Mary's apartment at 10 p.m. every TuesdaY Worscheh was assistant news limits, and researching employee nuns were there as disciplinarians probably won't be seeing any other and a prayer service Monday editor his sophomore year, and and company fucts. He also worked and this would be the end of loud sisters in the dorms next year. There through Friday at 7:4<; a.m. All arc worked as a senior staff reporter his with a financial consultant in stereos and parties. has been a vocational decline in the invited to the services. but very few freshman year. determing budgets for future years. Most have found their first im­past 20 years. attend. As managing editor, Worscheh In addition, Taiclet senes as cor-pressions couldn't have been further Rissmeyer explained this is just a Malits and Fisher arc thne to otTer will be in charge of The Observer's from the truth. One student ad­pilot program, although in the early an car to students who need help content, style and layout. His plans see PAPER, page 3 mitted she thought her social life 1970s a few Holy Cross sisters were with problems. 
The Observer 'tuesday, February 28, 1984 2.:-page 2 

In Brie£ 
' 

Professor Kenneth Ripple of Notre Dame Law School has lx-cn appointed to thl· Military Justice Study Commission by Ddc.:nsc Secretary Caspar Weinberger. The commission will study controversial reforms suggcstl·d for the military justice system and pH·parl· a report for Congress before September. The changes arc part of the Military Justice Act, signed by President Reagan in lklTmbcr. The act makes significant changes in the court-martial procedures and sentencing process. Acommission ofnine members, thrlT of whom must be civilians "who arc recognized authorities in military justice or criminal law," was established to study the proposnlchangcs. -The Obserr•er 
Linnea Vacca, assistant professor of English at Saint Mary's, is one of I I college and university faculty members in the state of Indiana to receive a Faculty Open Fellowship from the Lilly Endowment, Inc. The fellowhips, now in their tenth year, allow faculty members to pursue innovative research and work-study programs in the llnitcd States or overseas. Vacca, a member of the Saint Mary's faculty since 1969, will spend the 1984-8<; school year at till· Institute for thl· Advann·d Study of Religion at the University ofChicago, where she received her Ph.D. -The Obserr•er. 
Notre Dame's College Bowl team fell to a rt·~urgcnt team from Indiana l lnivcrsity in the t1nals of the midwest regional tournaml·nt at Purdue. After ddeating Indiana 29S-60 in the early round:-., II" won two straight from the Irish, :H 0-7'; and 20';­1:~O. to advann· to till" nationab in Columbus. Oh. Notre Dame got to till' 11nab after defeating tt·am~ from Earlham College ( 20S-I IS), \\'e:-.tnn lllinoi~ llnin·rsity ( 240-7'i) and Wheaton Colkgl· (2~0­
1I'i ). .Juniors Ray Davis (capt.) and Steve Zepf combinnl with :-.t·niors.Jim l.eous, Randy Fahs and freshman Sophie Twarog to t1nish st-cond among the I·! participant~ from Illinois and Indiana. -The I J/Jserr•er 
Christian and Moslem militias battled in downtown lkirut yesterday, with volleys of machine-gun tire and dozens of grenadt·~ tt·mporarily dosing tht· only crossing point be­lWl'l'll the dividnl city. Artilkry and rocket exchanges also were n·ported hetwn·n l.c.:hant'Sl' army troops and Syrian-backed Druse militiamen in till' hills overlooking Beirut. Diplomatic cllorts to end the l.ebannt· cri~is ~takmatt·d a~ Saudi Arabia's chief mediator, Rafik llariri. ddaynl hi~ return to Beirut, saying he had been summonnl l(>r urgent talks with Saudi King Fahd and the Saudi ambassador to \\'a~hington. Prince Bandar bin Sultan. -AP 
A woman's claim she soldherbabydaughterfor S.~.'iOO has t(Kust·d attention on the lack oflaws barring child selling in South Ctrolina ami loophoks in adoption regulations, and may kad to tougher nt·w laws. In part ht·ctust· of the legal climate. the 'tate has become known as an easy place to t1nd a child to adopt. St·vc.:ral newspapns in the stall' haVl' long accepted dassifinl ad­vertbt·mt·nts from coupks-many ofthem aftluent peopk from out of state-seeking adoptive children. -AP · ..-,. • • ' .. • '" • • ~ 
Protesting Hindus shut down factories, shops and schools across the city yestt·rday while more than 2,000 riot politT kep. order and arn·sted five Sikh militants for burning copil's of the Indian constitution. The II indus, who called the peace­ful strike "a complt'tl' stK'l'l'Ss," were protesting the government's t:tilure to halt Sikh attacb on II indus in the northern state of Punjab, rocknl by two weeks ofviolence. In Punah, Sikh terrorists on motor­cycles fatally shot a schoolteacher in the rt·mote village of Faridkot, state polin· said. A waVl' of tcrrorism has claimed at kast 8~ lives in two weeks in Punjab and adjacent llaryana state. -AP 
The tanker American Eagle, its side torn by a fatal explosion a day bd(>rt·, sank Yl'Sterday with 24 men aboard as it waitt·d for a tow in the gak-whippnl <iulf of Mexico. the Coast (iuard said. -.-1? 
Weather 
.. 

Oh no! Occasional snow today. Windy and cold with blowing and drifting snow. lligh around ~0. Snow showers, blowing and drifting tonight and tomorrow. Windy and cold. Low in upper tl'l·ns and low twt·ntil's. -.·1/' 
The Observer 
Tht· Oh-.·rvcr ( l W~ ~'l'l 2 100111 " puhh... Ju..·d ~tond.l\ lhrouKh l·ru.l.i~ and on home: foothJII '-taturda~·,, c.'Xt.'l'PI durinJ-: l'X,IIll Jnd \ al,Uion pc.·riod., l'ht" Oh~t·rvt·r b puhJe.,tu·U h\ 1hc.· ..uu.lc.·nt,ol tlu: 1 111\'t'r\lt\ ol N,trc.· I>Jmc.· Jnd :...111H \l.1n ·, <ollt·Kc.· :..uh~t r!plum~ 111:1\ ht· pun h~~c.·d Jor S2.~ pc:r ~·c.·ar ( SI:; pl'r '"'ITH''It·r) hy '"' nlm){ Tht.~ Obst.·n'er, 
P ( > Uox (}, Noln·l>amclnd!<lll.l·l(,c;c;(, The Observer" .t m<·mtx·r ofThe As­
S<,dated Press. .-\II n·produnion n~IH~ Jrl' n·,c.·rvc.·U. 
Today·~ issuc.· '"·a~ prm.lun..·d hy: 

/Jt•sl)t,nl:'ditur... ....... <:hris Bowh:r 
l.t~l'OIII.\'taff ..................... Tina \\'idc.·rquist 
John Mc.·nndl 
!'rank lkMart·o 
Sta«..T}' Prunesti l)•fJ••.«•IIers ..................... llill llighduchet·k 
Mit·hdk Fanto Nt'II'S litlitor... .... Dan McCullough Cop)' Htlilor ........................... Tess Guarino 
Juli<·Smith .\ports Cop)' Editor..................)ant· lkaky Vieii1Wi1lt La>•out ........ Mikt: McCaughey 
Paulllrun: .'V/J lh~l' Editor................. Melinda Moon: SMC OaJ• liditor. .......... ~1aggit: O'Connell Ad nesigu ... ...............jean Euch PboloJirti{Jher. ......................... Pt·te Lat·hcs 1)•plst. ...........................Sarah llamilton 


Poetry Editor for Village Voice reads works during literary festival 
By FRANK LIPO 
Neu•sStaff 
The Sophomore Literary Festival 
continued last night as Joel Oppen­
heimer came to Notre Dame. He is 
the second of six literary figures 
who comprise the 1984 version of 
this 17 year old Notre Dame tradi­
tion. 
Oppenheimer, poetry editor of 
The Village Voice, is also the Poet-in­
Residence at City College of New 
York and is an Associate Professor of 
Communications at New England 
College. He comes to Notre Dame 
from New Hampshire, the location 
of his "extended leave" for the past 
two years. He set the mood for the 
evening with his light and often 
humorous poems about day-to-day 
life in New Hampshire. These 
poems, whether dealing with the 
beauty of nature or the incon­
venience of living away from a big 
city, allowed Oppenheimer to "stay 
light at the beginning" as he 
promised 
He gradually moved on to more 
serious poems which dealt with 
such diverse subjects as the anniver­
sary of the death vf his mother and 
his, "mid-life crisis." He spoke of his 
work as stemming from the small' 
events and occasions of lift'. which 
can convey deeper meaning. His 
poems "come of occasions, inci­
dents and small acts." lit' also 
demonstrated that he can usc his 
poetry to deal dlc.:ctivcly with the 
more serious side of life with poems 
such as "Celebrating the Peace," 
which describes the week that the 
war ended in Vietnam. It says, "Don't 
celebrate the end ofthe war, nobody 
wins." 
Oppenheimer read published 
poetry and also poetry that has yet to 
be published. He interspersed his 
"cutic-pit'" poems, those that are 
short and humorous, throughout his 
poetry reading. He effectively used 
them to balance his serious poems 
and they emphasized his down-to­
earth manner. His unpretentious 
natUre allowed the audience to em­
pathize with his poetry. 
In the question and answer ses­
t--------t 

t_Ihe= t 

t t t =ObserYer~t 

t It : would like to t hear from you. t t t. 

sion which followed, Oppenheimer spoke of his fascination with poets such as E:E. Cummings, Ezra Pound and William Carlos Williams that eventually led him to "put some­thing on paper" at about the age of 
19. He attended the University of Chicago for a few months where he found that he "couldn't stand the no­tion of the intellectual elite that was encouraged at the time." He grate­fully found Black Mountain College in the hills of North Carolina and en­countered the legendary attitude towards kaming that flourished there. He spoke spoke of the Jack of Administration, where the teachers "taught as they saw fit." He felt that many of their methods have been adopted by present day colleges and universities. He loved the freedom 
and transferred it to his poetry. lie said, "for me it was an extraordinary experience." Oppenheimer stressed that poetry is his preferred form and he only uses prose when his ideas demand those forms for expression. 
When asked how his poetry compares with that of Ntozake Shange, last night's speaker, he said he felt that he used the small events of life to infer the large, momentous ones while Shange worked in reverse order. He admired the oral aspect of her poetry and in contrast: "I find my voice an interference with my poems." 
Oppenheimer will conduct a workshop tomorrow at noon in the Library Lounge. Tomorrow night's speaker is Chaim Potok. He speaks at 
7:30 in Washington Hall. 


Tbr ObfiC"rvrr/Petc-Lacbr.OJ 
Joel Oppenheimer speaks to the audience gathered in the Library Auditorium yesterday on the second de~)' ofthe Sophomore Literary• Festival. The poet readfrom a collection ofhis works andfollowed with a question and ansu•erperiod. 

277-0734 

t t I NEED HELP WITH YOUR STUDENT LOAN? I


~--------------------------· 
' II II
t ' If you've attended college on a Guaranteed Student t t I Loan or a National Direct Student Loan made after I t t I October 1, 1975, consider spending a couple of years I t t 1 in the Army. 1 
1 Ifyou train for certain specialities, the government 1t t 1 will release you from 1I 3 of your indebtedness (or 1 t t I $1,500, whichever is greater) for each year of active I t t I duty. I 
t t I Obviously, a three year enlistment cancels 100 1 A Expre.S•S your t II percent of your debt. But if you sign up for the Army's II exclusive two-year enlistment option, we'll still cancel 
oprnrons t I 2/3 of your debt. I through a letter t I Plus, you may be eligible for ;enerous educational I 
to the editor: I incentives. I 
To find out how to serve your country and get out I 
P. 0. Box._.Q I of debt, call the number below. I 
Notre Dame, IN , 1 Sgt. Jones 234-4187 I t I Call Collect I
46556 

tI ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. I 




-·--------------------------· 
The ObServer Tuesday, February 28, 1984-page 3 
Poll says Mondale to win primary 

Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H -As Walter Mondale shook the last hand ofth t e New Hampshire campaign, a poll said yesterday Sen. Gary Hart was closing in on the Democratic front­
runner  a  day  before  the  state's  
primary.  
"I'm  not  looking  at  the  polls..  

We're doing well," the former vice president said as he greeted workers outside a shoe factory. 
Hart, hoping to oust Sen. John Glenn as Mondale's closest rival, said, "There's a lot of voter switch­ing" at campaign's end. He said he already has won here because he is deemed "a serious candidate." 
Two polls said Mondale holds a lead over Hart, now No. 2 thanks to a surprise runner-up finish in Feb. 20's lead-offIowa caucuses. 
An ABC news-Washington Post poll said Mondale had 32 percent support to 2S for Hart, IS for Glenn and 8 for the Rev. JesseJackson. For­mer Sen. George McGover~ had S percent; Sen. Ernest Hollings had 3, followed by Sen. Alan Cranston with 2 and former Florida Gov. Reubin Askew with I in a survey of 4SO voters. The poll was based on a three-day rolling average and had a margin oferror of S percent. 
That poll held a seven-point Mondale lead over Hart, down from 14 points in the same poll for the. three-d'ay period ending 24 hours earlier. 
A poll conducted for Cable News Network showed Mondale with a wider lead; 38.2 percent for Mondale, 22 for Han and I S.4 for Glenn. The margin of error was 4.4 
percent, and the poll surveyed SOO Democrats and independents who said they are likely to vote today. 
Still, the candidates worried about a snowstorm forecast for primary day. and how that would affect a tur­nout which New Hampshire Secretary of State William Gardner said would run to 112,000 Democrats and independents. 
Mondale campaigned only briefly here during the day. He spent less than a half-hour standing outside a Manchester shoe factory, then flew to Boston to accept the endorse­ment of Mayor Ray Flynn. 
He has a strong, labor-backed or­ganization that is the envy of his seven rivals; one that has made him a prohibitive favorite in a state which will send 22 delegates to the Democratic National Convention. 

Senate approves sophomore ticket 
By CAROL CAMP 
Senior StaffReporter 
APPhoro 

The ABC Wasbington Post poll of New Hampshire voters The Student Senate last night ap­predictedSen. ErnestHolljngs ofSouth Carolina wouldfinish sixth proved a petition for the candidacy in the Democratic presidential primary, the first ofthe campaign, of sophomores Pat McCauley, 
which will be held today. Therese Kramer, Lisa Meehan, and 

Radiation may be answer to EDB drawbacks, ND professor claims 
By LIZ MILLER 
News Staff 
The use of radiation against in­sects may be the most suitable sub­stitute for the fumigant ethylene dibromide, or EDB, according to Dr. Geo~e Craig, director of the Vector Biol<lgy Lab at Notre Dame. 
i 
EDB was used to combat pests in stortd grains and fruits until it was banned last week by Enviomental Protection Agency Chief William Ruckelshaus. 
Craig did cite two drawbacks to 
the use of radiation: the emotional 
response the procedure arouses and 
its high cost. But he added there is 
no physical danger involved in 
eating irradiated food. "Astronauts 
eat irradiated food regularly," he 
said. 
The EPA action was in response to 
a nationwide scare over the chemi­
cal's presence in such substances as 
ground water, cake mixes, and 
stored grain and fruit products. 
EDB joined the list of substances occasional exposure is relatively proven to cause cancer in 1974. harmless. when studies showed prolonged ex­In response to the controversy, posure to minute traces of it caused Margaret Heckler, secretary of the cancer in laboratory animals. A 1977 Department of Health and Human study linked the fumigant to genetic Services, last week announced radia­defects and reproductive disorders. tion is a good substitute for EDB as a 
fumigant. This sparked a new con­The EPA was previously troversy as consumers pictured red, prohibited from banning the sub­glowing fruits and vegetables. 
the now-disproven theory that it IraqiS om was eliminated from food by cooking. 
In 1980, the EPA proposed Associated Press phasing out the chemical but the Reagan Administration blocked the NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iraqi jets yes­effort because of industry objec­terday attacked oil tankers near tions. Iran's oil export terminal at Kharg Is­
Only a small percentage of land in the Persian Gulf, an Iraqi products, however, contain critical military communique reponed. levels of the substance. Ap­Neither the number nor the proximately two percent of all fruit nationality of the oil tankers was im­is sprayed with it. In addition, mediately known. It was also not processing eliminates 80-95 percent known if anyone was killed or ofEDB in grain products. EDB's can­injured in the air attack. cer risk comes from prolonged ex­posure on a regular basis, and An unidentified Iraqi military 
spokesman, reading the com­
munique over state television, said the raid was in "fulfillment of a threat made by Iraq earlier this Fritz Duda in next week's class of­ficer elections. 
McCauley presented the Senate with a 200 signature petition requesting his ticket be included on the ballot. He explained the can­didates had missed last Monday's mandatory meeting because they did not have a complete ticket formed at the time: 
"I dld not understand you could go to the meeting with one, two, or three people and then fill out the ticket after the meeting." 
He also said, "The reason that we were not at the mandatory meeting was we did not just want to make a quick decision." 
According to Ombudsman repre­sentative Henry Sienkiewicz, OBUD "does not have an informational meeting for class officers due to a lack of attendance -that's why we have a 24-hour leeway period." 
Current election policy stipulates that candidates interested in run-
stance because ofa 1956 law which granted EDB an exemption based on 

• b b t k
an ers--· ,... week. 
ning for class offices are required t w attend the mandatory meeting. If they do not have four people on their ticket, they are then given 24 hours to fill in the vacancies. 
District Four Senator Mike Quinn said the sophomores' petition was different than one made by Chapin Engler and John Dardis who had petitioned the Senate earlier this month to allow the two to receive write-in votes when they student body president and vice president. 
The Senate also approved an offi­cial statement concerning the Uni­versity's final exam policy. This proposal includes the following provisions: 
Final exams should be worth be­tween 20 and 40 per cent of a stu­dent's final course grade. 
Final papers or projects may be substituted for final exams in a course. In order to avoid over­burdening students during the last week of classes, these papers or 
projects would be due during finals 
month and to punish the Iranian regime for attacking our people and our territories." 
Baghdad radio, monitored in Nicosia, reported the air attack was in retaliation for Iran's latest of­fensive and the capture of Iraqi oil wells north of Basra, Iraq's second largest city. 
The military spokesman said the air raid "signals beginning of the blockade which we have decided to impose on this area." 
Iraq has repeatedly threatened to attack Kharg Island, 120 miles sout­heast of Iraq. The island is Iran's main terminal for oil exports in the Gulf region. 

Paper 
continuedfrom page 1 
porate treasurer for Ag-Mont, Inc., a family-owned leasing company for grain warehousing. Some ofTaiclet's duties at Ag-Mont include oversee­ing the company's budget, cash flow aod collection of receivables. 
Taiclet is currently secretary­

treasurer for Cavanaugh Hall, and 
last summer worked as a congres­
sional intern for Rep. Elwood Hillis 
(R-Ind.). 
Taiclet and Worscheh assume 

their duties March 27. 

is taking applications for the positions of 
News Editor Viewpoint Editor Photo Editor Features Editor Saint Mary's Editor Sports Editor 
Controller Circulation Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager 


Submit resume to Bob Vonderheide 3rd Floor LaFortune--·· 

DEADLINE: Feb. 29, 5 p.m. 
~ 





View~_o_i_n_t________
T_ue-sd-ay_,Fe-br-ua-ry-28_,1-98-4-p-ag-e4 
Want to buy a watch? 
Wht·n I lived in Africa , I stopped wt·aring a wat<:h. AJ"imex seemnl useless in a land whne tht· sun and the pace of the camel st·t tht· rhythm. But last August, on a trip to Haiti, I found myselfconstantly asking: "What 
Michael Varga Eavesdropping 
timt· is it?" And the Haitians, a smile crossing thdr lips, would answer: "Timt· to buy a watch!" 
As I am n:mind~d of Haiti now ( 7 200 "tktained" Haitians who voyaged to this country undcr Jimmy Carter's tcntative wckome in I980 are being dcnkd rcidency status by a tight-fisted Reagan administration) it is the st·nst· of timt· missed that lingers, of a smik sparkling across a fau:. 
llaiti is an island of contrasts -poorest country in the Western hemisphere, yet pt·opled with a spirit, a song, a dance ever in tht· air. And when I, an Amcrican, an outsider -irrt·sistihly drawn by the rhythm -tried to snatch a gli.mpsc of the spirit or spin a few dance-steps, I seemed to be a moment late, always a few steps out of sync, pressing too hard to match my footfalls to those of the Creole dancers. 
It's nor that simple. It's nor a question of imitating a movement, but of understanding a ht·ritage. 
Some 50 years before the American Civil War, the black slaves of Haiti revolted, driving their slave masters into oblivion. Anyone who loves liberty must appreciate the force that mobilized those slaves to throw off the yoke of oppression. But a history of despotic rulers and foreign infiltrators, a terrain of steeply-sloped mountains, and a plot-by­smaller-plot method of farming have given Haiti a difficult time. 
And it is the ability to transcend such dif­ficulty that vitalizes the llaitian spirit -so at­tractive and compelling. Almost like a spell or a charm, it works to make you want to pitch in, to do your part in reducing some of the pain. 
One night I stayed in a hospital guesthousc in the middle of the island. All sorts of nationalities (French, Italians, Americans, Haitians) were gathered there to create medi­
cal care where nothing but powdered roots and burnt herbs had served before. 
The telephone in the gucsthouse where I stayed had the same number as the hospital's anesthesiologist. There were calls all thmugh the night, summoning him to numb someonc's pain, to soften the blows ofa taunt­ing Disease and a punching Death. And each rime that phone rang I started awake, moving to answer it -wondering at the pain that prompted the call. 
Did you ever want to answer the call of an­
other, even though you knew you had nothing 
to say? 
I hardly slept that night, pummelled by the 
ringing phone as much as by my own wonder­
ing at what contribution I was making to 
reduce some ofthe misery. 
I began to curse that phone. Why couldn't I have shared a number with a cook, or a groundskccper? I know how to bake bread. I know how to sickle grass. 
When it would eventually stop ringing, I'd sink back in my bed, knowing the anes­thesiologist had awoken. The crack of the swinging screen door told me he was on his way. He was doing his job; soon someone would feel relief. 

In the morning, a family was dancing 

outside the gucsthousc. Their sick child 
would survive, the doctors had promised. 
They invited me to dance with them, and, 
lead-footed though I am, I did dance. If no­
thing else, I could celebrate this victory with 
them. 
As we danced all through the morning, mindless of the passage of time, I missed thc truck back to the city. And when I finally rcmcmbcrcd to ask about the time, they said: 
"It's time to buy a watch!" 
And they laughed and smiled at the prospect ofmy dancing a few more hours with them until the next truck would go. And I laughed with them -laughs loud and bois­terous that reverberated through the gray hospital compound. 
For I saw, reflected in those shimmering eyes, in those smiling faces, that a watch qn my wrist would have denied us these mo: ments ofharmony linking strangers in joy. . 
Michael Var.ga is a graduate student i~ Development Economics. His play, Payabk Upon Return, waspublished last semester by thejuniperPress. 


Trying to talk to a Walkman 
I hate walkmans. 

I guess I should not usc the word "hate" he­<.·aust· my mother has always said, "you never really hate anything." I will instead simply 
M. Boennighausen Opinion 
state, "I dislike walkmans" 
Now my reasons for disliking walkmans havt· nothing to do with their intended purpost·; namely, tht· reproduction of music IC>r a listt·ncrs cnjoymt·nt. I likt· music. The driving heat of the Rolling Stones and the plt-a.';ant tor1t·s of Mozart arc both very satisfy­ing. ( >f courst·, there an: exceptions. An entire t·vt·ning of Van llalen of Elgar is always too 
llJLKh. 
But hat·k to walkmans. As I mentioned bd(>rc. I do not mind a walkman's main li.mc­tion; wht·n· I find a prohlt-m is in how it ac­complishes this function. A walkman cuts its ust·r oil" from the rest of tht· outsidt: world. 
"I n·ing to gt·r rh~: attt·ntion ofsomeone who is deep into the sounds ofDuran Duran is next to impossible without resorting to physical violence, or, in more extreme cases, the usc of atomic weapons. 

I have encountered such communication problems with walkman users on many occa­sions. One repeated occurrence, however, particularly bothers me. On the semi-ran: days when I feel enough motivation and suffi­cient prodding from a friend, I take to the open road for a quick jog. 
My friend and I usually head over to Saint Mary's and then back to the Dome, thus complt-ting a fairly strenuous workout. In reality, I am almost totally exhausted hy the time we reach the Grotto for a quick prayer. 
On our run we see many other people engaged in this same activity. There are pt·ople running by themselves and packs of people splashing merrily through mud puddles as they run. 
As my friend and l pass fellow runners, I al­ways try to blurt out, between ga~ping breaths, some form ofgreeting. My greeting is either a nice. loud "Howdy!" or a quick "How's it going?" To this greeting non­walkman runners will respond with a friendly "Hi" or a "Fine, thank you." 
With walkman-carrying runners it is a tar different story. The walkman runner either ignores my greeting completely or gives me a disturbed look. This look seems to say, "How dare you try and interrupt my enjoyment of Thriller even though I have already listened to it over a thousand times?" Such look.~ <Sftcn ruin any plea'iurc I might receive from my somewhat masochistic hobby. 
Now, you may wdl ask what my solution is to this ever-Increasing problem. I am tempted to say that walkmans should h~;:r.banncd from campus. This solution, I think, is too extreme. Such an answer would probably drive the walkman user into the closet, even further away from any communication with the outside world. 
Furthermore, this measure would drive walkman users away from campus and into the jungles of South Bend. Consequently, a walkman-frcc campus would not solve the problem; in fact, it would probably make the problem worse. 

The best way to deal with the problem is through the usc of tn·hnology. The engineer­ing department must invent a fancy pocket­size transmitter that can interrupt, with a 
message from the sender, any music playing on an offending walkman. For example, if someone wants to contact a walkman user. a simple message such ao;, "Hey dummy, I am trying to talk to you," could be transmitted with no need to rcson to violence. 
Such a solution may be expensive, but the effort must be made to keep a largt· pere<:nt­age of the campus from heing cut off from the rest of us and to protect these walkman-users from the assaults of frustrated individuals trying to talk to them. 
Walkmans may seem small and harmless, but their potential for causing great harm calil­not be underestimated. 
Mark Boennighausen is a junior gouern­ment major from ntorthern California. 
p • 0 • BoxQ 

Better cheers 
/)ear lit/itor: 

I shud<.kr to think of what Marquette stu­dulls said about those intimidating chet·rs printt·d up l(>r our last homt· game. What nmltllx· mort· distracting than :\000 students mt·owing during free throws? Not to mention the mooing, till" howling and tht· harking. ChtTrs with rt·ally authentic South Bend llavor. 
Anotlwr st·;to;on ha.o; slipped hy, and our chn·rkadt-rs han· yet to figurt· out a way to gui<.k, mud1 ks.o; kad. tht· crowd through a game. As a rt·sult, asitk from some occasional glantTS from tilt· malt-s. the nowd is almost totally disintt·rt·stt·d in what the dlct"flcadt·rs are doing. 
Thdr at-rohatics and dance routines arc ex­cdknt, hut tht·y do nothing to incite the crowd. <:htTrs range from compktdy uni­maginatin· ones such "'shoot li>r two"' (gee, ,·an wt· shoot li>r mu· or threen and "'take it away"' (I have never heard a crowd at any event bother with that one). to the unintel­ligible ones from the court during time outs. Const·qucntly, the crowd becomes rcspon­sibk for its own cheers, and it usually docs a g!"l·at job. 

Perhaps we can't expect such a level of crt·ativity or imagination from our cheer­kaders (although this is not the case at other universities). Perhaps the spomancity of the crowd is much more elfectivt·. 
But they should at least take noticc of what tht· crowd is doing, and use it to keep them at·tin· and noisy. Megaphones aren't just for lt>Otball anymore. lise them. Don't wait for the crowd to start taunting the point gu~ ··I -get it started. Succes.o;ful cheers also make 5-'<>d usc of the band."'Thrn· BlindMice" hasn't bct·n on the charts for quite a while, but it gets the point across when the officiating sours. 
There is more to chcerleading than clap­ping your hands with your hack to tht· game. 
joe Basque 
I~W~ WlS NijlHING! 

~l~ "~MPSHIRFS T~E TEST! W£ CAN TAKE HIM, DADGOMMIT.I WE CAN WIN THIS T~INGJ 

fAR!~ To j)IJN EARl~ lJ J()lN .. 
\ 




Editorial Board DepartmentManagers
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 1'. 0. /lox{!..Votrt.'/Jamt•. /.'V ·16 556 ( 2/CJ) 23CJ· 5303 Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen 
The OIJserl'<•r is tht· indq)l"ndt·nt newspapn published hy the students of the l"ni­Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Controller ...............................................Alex Szilva~ \Trsit)' of Notre Dana· du l.ac and Saint :\laf)'s Collegl". It does not necessarily rellel"l News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole the polidt·s of the administration of dthn institution. The nt·ws is reported as ac­News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Circulation Manager .........................Mark Miotto t·uratdy ami as ohjt"t"li\"dy as possihlt· I nsigned editorials reprt·scnt the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams 
majorit\" oftht· Editorial Board.< :ommentarit·s. ktters. and the Inside Column present Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan tht· vin~·s ofthdr authors. Column span· i~ a\"ailahlt-to all members ofthe comnwnity Viewpoint Editor................................K~ith Picher and the frn·t·xprt·s.o;ion of\·;~rying opinion~ on campus. through leiters. is t·ncouragnl. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton 
Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower 
1 


Sports Briefs 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for today. For more information on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Obseroer 
An NVA track meethas been scheduled for Thursday, March I. Field events will begin at 6:30 p.m. and track events will start at 7:45. -The Obseroer 
NVA deadlines have ben set.The last day to sign up for interhall baseball, interhall 12" softball (men's and women's), grad softball, and women's interhall soccer is ·March 9. For more details, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
A B.rootnball Brawl, sponsored by NVA, will take place on March 10 from 3:45-5:45. There will be open skating and a broomball tournament. Skates may be rented for S1. There will also be a snack stand. Turn in broomball rosters to the NVA office by March 7. -The Obseroer 
All Bengal Bouts fighters must attend a man­datory physical today at 7 p.m. in the ACC varsity training room. If there are any questions, call Tom Lezynski at 1 728, Angelo Perino at 3348, br Mike Latz at 8308. -The Obseroer 
The NVA downhill skiing tripto Royal Valley is still tentatively scheduled for tonight. Call the NVA office at 239­6100 after 2 p.m. to see ifthe trip is still on. The departure time is 6 
p.m. 
from the Library Circle. -The Obseroer 

The Weigh-ins for the Bengal Bouts will be held from 4 

p.m. 
to 5:30p.m. on Thursday afternoon. They will take place in the Boxing room in the ACC. -The Obseroer 


The Windsurfing class for Free University begins this Thursday. The class will be held in Room 116 ofO'Shaughnessy Hall at 8 p.m. It will go on every Thursday for three weeks. -The Obseroer 
Tuesday, February 28, 1984 -page 5 
The Skateboard Club of Notre Dame will hold an organizational meeting on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune little Theater. All interested should attend. If there are any ques­tions, call Bob at 1489. .-The Obseroer 
The NVA Fitness Screeningstill has some open times available. Call Sally at 239-6690 for more information. -The Obsero(!T" 
Pete Gillen, an assistant to Digger Phelps, will be the guest tonight on "Speaking ofSports." Call 239-6400 or 239-7425 to ask Gillen a question or make a comment. -The Obseroer 
Stepan Center will be closed for recreation beginning Thursday, March 1 and continuing through Saturday, March 10. The Bengal Bouts will be going on during that time. -The Obseroer 
The lnterhall Basketball semifinals took place last night. Sorin defeated Zahm 58-37. And in an upset, Off-Campus beat Alumni 56-50. The finals are March 5 at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. ­
The Obseroer 

The ND Water Polo Club will be holding an or­ganizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. at Rockne Memorial. All interested arc welcome to attend. Ifthere arc questions, call Mike at 1532. -The Obseroer 
Jim RowinskiofPurdue was named the Associated Press Big Ten Player of the Week. Rowinski scored 24 points, 20 in the second half, against Illinois on Saturday. The victory gave the Boiler­makers sole possession offirst place in the conference. Aseniorfrom Syosset, N.Y., Rowinski also pulled down a career high 13 rebounds during that game. It was the second time he has won the award. ­
AP 

Sullivan Award to Moses 

By HANK LOWENKRON Associated Press 
World champion hurdler Edwin Moses was named yesterday as the winner of the James E. Sullivan Memorial Award for 1983. 
Moses, 28, of Laguna Hills, Calif., was selected from a field of 1 0 finalists to join a list of previous amateur athletes for the award, which has grown tremendously in presitge in recent years. 
The award was presented by Glenn Cunningham, who received his plaque from the Amateur Ath­letic Union 50 years ago. 
"This is the third time I've been selected as a finalist," Moses said. "I have won quite a few awards through my career, and this is one that seems to have escaped me." 
Moses was selected in nationwide voting by more than 2,400 par­

ticipants,  including  past  winners,  
members  of the  media,  the  U.S.  
Olympic  Committee executive  

board and the sponsoring AAU. 
"There was not much to do about it," recalled Cunningham, 74, a for­mer middle distance runner who had the distincition of presenting the award in recognition ofhis being the first to receive it 50 years ago. 
Cunningham, a former University ofKansas miler, received his Sullivan Award during an AAU meet in New York's Madison Square Garden. There was no fuss over the winner in those days, he said. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor oC Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­



Classifieds 
ters 

lost: TAN CASHMERE SWEATER on CARTRIDGES $30,TAPES(TDK & ATTENTION MALES: Patty Fagan is in ASPEN FOR SPRING BREAK Feb. 21 also a CASIO CALCULATOR MAXELL) $2.50 CALL DAN MEAKIN -the infirmary. Go visit her, BUT DON'T 2 SPACES OPEN 
NOTICES 
WATCH at the GMAT tests in the FOR RENT 277-3306 KISS HER!!! Compliment her on her $265 5 OAYS-6 NIGHTS Engineering Auditorium Please calt Ron flowers. 5 DAY LIFT TICKET at 277-8452 ~Found. REWARD CALL 284-4391 ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT The Tardis has Landed! 325 RS. Adam WASHINGTON DC SPRING BUS STILL HERS! Surfs up but our prices aren't. FOUND: What looks like a car key by SCHOOL YEAR 277-3604/288-0955 TICKETS Ant lives and breathes at 219 Reg. South! A FEW SEATS OPEN CALL CHRIS 8796 From just $109.00 • spend 7 fun-filled the Architectural Bldg. Call Paul FOR INFO. 
days In sunny Florida Call for yourself Bundschuh at 3108 to Identify and H's Male needed to share PEACEFUL, com­JOHN CHRIST: A horse race & an italian 
or organize a small group and travel yours. fortable. cheap, apt.. very close to SAVE A LIFE I!! restaurant, airport poses & smooth brass, Real Programmers don't write specs -FREEl Great for clubs, tool Call LUV campus. with 2 others. 289-2072. 
My lather will KILL me ill don't come up Rogel & Cavaletti, a valentine & a black­users should consider themselves luckyTOURS (800) 368-2006, ask for An­
LOST BROOKS BROTHERS with Marquette tickets for him and h1s gloved hand. egg-rolls t & a convertible to get any Programs at all and take what 
nette. HOUSES FOR 84-85 SCHOOL YEAR. 
SWEATER. PINK AND SLIP·OVER. I visrt1ng friends. He·s VERY popular. but p1cnic. false suntans & real laughter & they get. 
FURNISHED. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS. LOST IT A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO also very wealthy. so money is no We Belong Together" _thank you. You 
CALL277-3461 OR EARLIER PLEASE CALL BUDDY problem. Call Jam1e at 8704. Thanx. are the BEST thing in my life_ THE CavanaughBEXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME 
AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS 
AT 8278 ANYTIME. RAVEN-HAIRED CHILD Wednesday mght COKER 233-7009. 
SPM LOST; NO SCHOOL RING. 10K GOLD Does the freshman from CASPER. over the hockey nnk Are you 1n need of FINANCIAL AID? 
WITH SMOOTH BLUE STONE. IN­WANTED WYOMING with the irresistible. irrepres­
Leadership Tra1ning! Challenge' Ad· 
PERSONALS ]

SCRIPTION "AVE MARIA WNM 84 sible smile still want to giVe me my first Cavanaugh Basketballventure' SCHOLARSHIPS! ARMY REWARD UPON RETURN. PLEASE toturoiPW?
ROTC! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming
CALL BILL AT 8278 OR RETURN TO For the Fun of IllAnne R1eman 1n the ROTC Building (239· 
an Army Officer? Interested 1n Scholar­6264). 
LOST AND FOUND DEPT IN ADMIN. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. Amy 
Ships? See LTC Bob Sk1nner or CPT THE LAWS OF MR. GOODWENCH... Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building (239· Law No.9 (lnevrtability Theorem) Maybe 
BLDG. THANK YOU. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE Have you ever seen such a great place? 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN ENOUGH!II 

6264). someday Lewis women will discover the YO! To he who accidentally took my
Hey guys. cool~ wrth the s ... eats and jack­KEENAN 3-W ARE SOCIAL ZEROS correct use of soap ...NAAAAAAH!
green Notre Dame Windbreaker from ORIOLES FEVER. .. catch it!!! Senior Bar on Wednesday, 2-22: 1. You'll
ets, okay? WITH NOTHING BETTER TO DO THAN 
Heading east7Need ride to Toledo (exit
It was ONLY the Liberty Bowl' PLAY B. BALL ON SAT. NITE. 
4or5)March 1-4.Call Karen at 1674 GO GUYS SWIM TEAM!! GOOD LUCK AT MIDWEST. Larry. Mo. and Curly 
find my name on the back of the tag. 2. I COSMOS FEVER ......... CATCH IT!II!III 
can further positively identify ~-II you YYPES -YYPES -YYPES!!!!!!' -G.
RIDERS needed to DAYTON 03/02·would like to return rt. call Chip at x8728 or 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL IS RENALDO H.-COOL 
03/04 call Dave 234-0537. Boston club spring break bus sign-ups CAROLINE ADAMS. PICK UP YOURdrop rt off at the Lost & Found in the Adm COMING SOON! STAY TUNED TO THIS 
($115 or $50 non-refundable deposit COPY OF THE LOCAL H.S. DIREC­BAT CHANNEL FOR MORE DETAILS TO MY KNIGHT IN SHINING ARMOR
Bwld1ng. It would be9reat1y appreciated 
RIDE NEEDED. To Rochester, NY. or mandatory) Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in TORY AT THE BOOK STORE. BENDO. 
THANKS FOR COMING TO MY EMO­FOUND Cross pen and pencil set be­
Buffalo for Spring Break. Will share usual! LaFortune. First come, first served Better call the funeral home--it looks like TIONAL RESCUE RIGHT IN THE NICK
Call Terry at NO. 8875 or 8876. GO SIEGER-BEAT LSATS!!!!! 
tween PW. and Flanner call 3181 and
another SLOW DEATH OF TIME. THE SPINACH-COLORED
GIRLS--Tired of the NO social life? Calldescribe. 

WALLS WERE BEGINNING TO FALL IN

Looking lor a new or used GUITAR at a our service at 3727 The TARDIS is in 02 disguised as a Mer­
DEMOCRATS! DEMOCRATS! ON ·ME. SI()B) . YOlR DAM ffi. IIJ
fairly reasonable price. Call Tim at 1528. cury Bobcat wagon 
LOST: a pair of metal-framed glasses 1n 0 ISlFESS .
DEMOCRATS! SIGN UP NOW TO BE A DELEGATE IN OUR MOCK CONVEN­DESCARTES LAW OF KIRK'S BIG
red case II found. call 6973 
Need Riders to DALLAS, TX for Spring MJ-Beware the wrath of a ten-point
TION THE GREAT BOOKS--THE GREAT
BUTT WOMEN WHO GAIN WEIGHT
Break. Call John at 8367 pseudo-MOOSE.KP
LOST_ Silver Class R1ng with Red Stone 
MINOS. MEET FACULTY AND STU­Inscription T JM Call Beaver 8348 
GET BIG IN THE BUTT. MEN WHO GAIN 

WEIGHT GET BIG IN THE GUT. WHEN DENTS OF THE PROGRAM OF
Desperately need nde to Toledo Fnday Dear SS, Thanks for mak1ng my weekend SPECIAL INVITATION If you would like KIRK GAINS WEIGHT, HE GETS BIG IN LIBERAL STUDIES. MONDAY MARCH
3/2-3/4. Call Beth SMC 5405 so much fun (even though I have blisters an opportun~y to earn EXTRA CASH Found: Cha1n wrth cross at Stepan courts 
THE BUTT. THEREFORE, KIRK IS A 5, 1984.7:00 PM. GRACE PIT 
on my feet). Good luck on your ORGOwhile you are 1n schooL please JOin us for Tuesday afternoon Call Steve at 1670 

WOMAN.

RIDE NEEDED TO GREENSBORO NC test Thursday. I'm praying lor you. Hope
a presentation and group interv1ew at the 
Juhe K. I am an Innocent Man-the words 

OR VICINITY FOR SPRING BREAK you have a good time Sat .. I know I won 'I.
MORRIS INN COUNCIL ROOM. WED Lost: Gold mens N.D. class nng w1th blue Whatever happened to Jay Re1dy? of the song say 1t all. Me
WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL Lassiter P.S. I swear. 1t will grow back.
FEB 29 AT 7 30 pm Unusual opportun~y stone. JMU 84 ins1de. $50 reward Call 
CINDY 234-9521 P.P.S. get a haircut... Whatever happened to Alan O'Oay? 
to earn extra 1ncome wh1le sett1ng your J1m·1572 Julie K. I believe if we open our hearts. own hours JOIN US' we'll find keys to unlock every door'-Styx 
1 RIDE TO CHICAGO AREA ON FRIDAY Do you realize that wrthout 1) Dr. Who 2) 
REWARD lor return of bookbag w1th EE MeAgatin
Whatever happened to Steve

-CALL TOM 1004 The current love affa~r of Dr. Ego 3)books 1ns1de lost 2/21 at South Oimng 
St1panov1ch? 
W1nd~ s tendency to go down on

Hall. Call Ed 3110 THEYRE AT IT AGAIN The rude partiers 
NEED RIDE TO D.C. MARCH 1A. LYNN weekends 4) And comic books The per­
are aga1n trymg to make it 1nto the recordnamdam a sl zerlmaR craM 

7126 sonals would be boring? 
books So give them a call at 1779 and cheer them on as they try to break THE LAND CHEESE RECORD 


LOST/FOUND 

Orioles fever ..... CURE ITI!I!! GO WHITE 
Beer Bongs Made to Order, SMC 5485 SOXI!!(Sorry 3rd Flanner) See you in the. 
LOST: N.D. KEY CHAIN (4 KEYS) FOR SALE SPAL Sorry to hear that you missed
Senes (again I)SATURDAY 2/t8 BETWEEN 3.30 & 7 WONDRA on the beach 1n her HOT PINK 
P M BETWEEN THE ARCHIE BLDG AND GRACE HALL IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL t641 EDDY  HELP!' To whoever aCCidentally took my navy blue/grey-ltght blue winter 1ac~et:a rf"'· mnttoknowwhafsreallygomgoninthe from the Bert1no-David Campus V~ew Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL party on Sat. 25. Please return!! I'm freez-CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only  GO FRITZI! MONDALE SUPPORTERS SIGN UP NOW TO BE DELEGATES IN OUR! MOCK CONVENTION  dress. A weekend 1n Gaylord could never top one on Lake Mich1gan!1 BIG GUY To the men of Grace. The ULTIMATE Din­ Happy B-day Hugh' We were going to buy you a gift at Harrods in London. but a  
1ng! Call Terry at NO. 8875 or 8876. or  newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­ ner Party was an ULTIMATE soccess!!  group of fanatics bombed rt! Hope to see  
Lost 1 pa1r of Navy dress pants last week  drop it off at Lost and Found 1n the Admin_  scription information and a free sample  Laura FarrIs 21today Happy B-day you  Thanks to all of you. Low, the Farleyrtes  you in Florida in your satin G. Remember  
If found. call M1ke at 6835.  Bldg. Thank You  copy, call Paul at 277-4851.  Wild Woman' Luv. Mary  and Oea  stripes make you look bigger! Love US.  

The Observer Tuesday, February 28, 1984 -page 6 

Successful weekend 
Track team prepares for tourneys 

AP Photo 
flow about a piggyback ride? Former Notre Dame player joe Kleine climbs aboard Houston's Benny Anders while scrambling for the ball Sunday in a Southwest Conference match-up. Kleine nowpla_ysfor the Uniwrsi~y ofArkansas. 

Lose to Purdue-Calumet 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
Joe Piane has a good feeling about his Irish track team after its fine per­formance at the Wolverine Invita­tional in Ann Arbor, Mich. and at the Indiana TAC (The Athletic Congress) Invitational in Bloomington. 
The team was split up this past weekend. The distance medley relay team ofJim Moyar, Mitch Van Eyken, Jim Tyler, and Andy Dillon com­peted in Bloomington while the rest ofthe team went to Michigan. 
Piane could afford to make such a 
move because both meets wers in­
vitationals and non-scoring. This 
decision was made so that the med­
ley team could run a better time and 
possibly qualify for the NCAA In­
door Championships which take 
place at Syracuse University in New 
York on March 9-I 0. 
The competition in Bloomington was supposed to he a little better than that at Ann Arbor. Piane believed that this tougher competi­tion would push the Notre Dame team to perform to a qualification level. Although the team won the race, their time of 9:54.00 was five seconds short of the qualifying time set by the NCAA. 
Piane viewed these two invita­tionals as warm-ups for the remain­ing meets of the I984 indoor track 

Belles end season on sour note 
By DAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 
It's not often that a 4-1 H record 
can be reflective of a respectable 
season. in any spun. 
Friday night the Saint Mary's bas­
ketball team closed the hook on the 
I 9H3-84 season with a H2-55 set­
hack to the Lakers of Purdue 
University-Calumet, a team who has 
not only beaten the Belles earlier 
this sea"K>n, but has also won the 
SMC Roundhall Classic the past two 
years. 
The loss completed a 4-18 season that included just two victories in Angela Athletic Facility. According to head coach Mike Rouse, the poor record wa~ the result of more than just his own team's performance. 
"We had a tougher basketball schedule than we were able w handle," he admitted. "You have to realize that the schedule was planned before we knew who was coming out to play ball for Saint Mary's. 
"We did only win four games this season, but considering our lack of depth and hl'ight. and the talented teams we were up against, I'm not altogether disappointed." 
As the Belles found our again on Friday, Purdue-Calumet is one such talentt•d team. Saint Mary's was able to match baskets for just two minutes before the Lakers began a shooting and rt·hounding attack that 

Bouts 
continuedfrom page 8 
incident should not bt.· placed on any one person, specifically Culhane's sparring partner. 
"They were in there and it was controlled sparring," Tom l.ezynski said. "It wasn't one shot that did it Tht.·y both had their headgear on so it was really no one's fault. It didn't even happt.·n in the ring." 
Perrino also mentioned the spar­ring took place under the watt·hful eye of AI McCormick, one of the Bengal Bouts supervisors. McCor­mick was in the ring throughout the practice. 
created a 47-22 halftime lead over  recruits for next year, three ofwhich  
the Belles.  are 5-l0 or taller.  
Saint Mary's was more com­ "There arc a lot of reasons to be  
petitive the second half, but Purdue­ looking forward to next year," he  
Calumet maintained a dominating  said. "The Roundball Classic will he  
edge on the game. The Belles were  extended to eight teams, and we will  
outrebounded offensively 26-4, and  be playing in four other tourna­ 
hit just 21 of 49 attempts from the  ments besides.  
floor for 43 percent. The team con­ "Nine of the ten players on this  
verted 13 of 21 free throws for 62  year's team should return, and  
percent.  coupled with the recruits, I hope to  
In the scoring department, senior  have more talent and depth and  
guard Cyndy Short completed her  height. It'll be nice just more to  
final game with I I points to lead the  work with than ten players."  
Belles, while Kris Pantclleria threw  This season's performance is not  
in 10 points, with Besty Ebert and  without consolation, however. The  
Mary McQuillan each scoring eight  Belles finished third in their own  
points. For Purdue-Calumet, poten­ tournament, and captured a victory  
tial all-state player Sandy Love lt:d  from Franklin College, always a  
the Lakers with 22 points, while  tough opponent.  
Paula Pappage had 20 points.  "They just have to learn from their  
Rouse is counting on the return of  experiences," concluded Rouse.  
forward Beth Kreher, who was lost  "Next yearwill be more competitive  
for half of the season to injuries. Ad­ and hopefully more ofa challenge to  
ditionally, he has already signed four  the returning players."  
FALL /184  

SEMESTE" STUDY r~ObMM 

Hf.x'ico 
APPLICAT~ DEADL\NE 
~ARLH 1 
Applications available from; foreign Study Office 420 Administration Bldg. Center For Social Concerns 
season. The level ofcompetition the recovered from his minor injury as Irish faced last weekend was not seen by the way hc ran over the: near the caliber they will encounter weekend. in the IC4A's and NCAA's. In discussing the rest of the Irish 
However, the runners and sprin­results in Michigan, Piane said, ters went through similar ex­"Mike Collins, Ed Willcnhrink. Tom periences they will face in these final Warth, and Craig Maxfield ran the two meets. T This was accomplished fa~test times of their lives." by prepping the athletes and giving Although the meets last wt·ekend them the opportunity of competing were non-scoring, they served many in trials, semi-finals, and finals in the other positive purposes. It gave same meet. The Irish have not seen Piane the opportunity to look back this format too many times this without worrying about the team season and it proved to be a good standings and see where his team warm-up. stands at this point in the season. 
Highlights of the Wolverine In­vitational were the efforts of Allen The invitationals also prcpared Pinkett and Alvin Miller. These the Irish athletes for those ex­sprinters placed first and third periences they will encounter in tht· respectively in the 60-yard da~h. t1nal two and most competitive 
Piane commented that Miller has meets of the indoor track season. 

Wrestlers 
continued from page 8 
going in. I didn't feel like I had 
prepared for the last couple weeks, 
and I felt like it didn't matter that 
much." 
Baty concluded the season with a 
sparkling 33-8 mark overall. 
Fisher, one of only three seniors 
concluded his collegiate career with 
a respectable sixth-place finish. 

Fisher was a victim of . cir­cumstance at the meet as he was seeded behind Tom Pecora of Mar­quette. Pecora was seeded third while Fisher was seeded fourth. Fis­her should have been seeded ahead of Pecora because he had beaten Pecora in a home meet a week ago. 
·•J couln't believe that Pecora was seeded ahead of Fisher," said Coach Tihamer Toth-Fejel. "He beat Pecora decisively last time they wrestled." 
After receiving a bye in the first round, Fisher was pinned by a LSU wrestler in the second round. He then went on to win one, 9-8 against Tennessee, and lose two. One of those defeats came at the hands of Pecora, I 0-4. 
Although tht· Irish didn't do well 
at the Regionals, they have next year 
to look forward to. Besides Fisher. 
the Irish will lose only Pat Jolin and 
Matt Brown. That will only leave a 
void in the 126-pound class to fill for 
next year's wrestling coach. 
Who that coach will be rcm~ins a mystery to everyone. It will not be Toth-Fejel hecause he is tlnishing up his graduate work at the: end of this year. 
"If anyone offers you a head coaching job run the other way," said Toth-Fejel jokingly. "Seriously, I'm going to miss the kids and the wrestling, hut I'm not going to miss the administrative duties." 
The Irish were beset by a tremen­dous amount of injuries that hin­dered the team's performance this year, but the inuries will be a benefit to next year's squad. 
"The injuries gave a lot of people on the team the chance to gain some experience," said Krug. "There should be a lot of competition for starting spots on next year's team. 
"I think we're on the edge. We're close, but we're not quite there. 


~orbys] 
"Tuesday Night Special"
:JI--•• 
3·7p.m. Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 7·11 p.m. lmports ... $1 
No Software for your l\1acintosh? 


We feature Microsoft's Basic $119, Multiplan $149, and Chart $99. Also, our current special is: 
U.S. Robotics Password Modem $349 
3001 1200 baud auto-dial, auto-answer modem 
PeopleWare Computer Products, Inc. P.O. Box 10359 Minneapolis, MN 55440 
Order line: (612) 623-4109 

Scholastic is looking for applicants to the 
84-85 Editorial Board. Positions include: 
-General Manager -St. Mary's Editor -Business Manager -CultureI Fiction -Advertising Manager Editor -Layout Editor -NewsI Sports Edito -Photo Editor -Copy Editor -Distribution Manager-Art Editor 
AppiJ<;__~tions are available at the Scholastic office, 3rd floor LaFortune. Deadline is March 9. Interest and enthusiasm are the onlv prerequisites For info call 239-7569 


T0 daY--~--------------------T_u_e_s_d_ay._,_F_e_b_r_ua_r_y_2_s_,_1_9_8_4
__P_a_g_e_7 



Guindon Richard Guindon 

"Don't tell me until this plane passes over. I'm wearing a wire." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 34 Electron 54 Self: pref. 11 Former Sec. 1 Salamander tube 55 Gardener's of State 5 Doaway 35 Gold:Sp. attribute 12 Saucy 
with 36 Mine 58 Small bird 13 Encounter 10 Hoax entrance 59 Stash away 14 Curtain 37 Out of 60 Indigo dye 
color practice 61 Mail 15 Fragrant 38 Thin 62 Br. soldier 18 Mistakeresin 39 Howard of 63 Allot 23 Pleasant16 Rabbit "Happy 24 Waste17 Chess piece Days" allowance19 Oriental 40 Melons DOWN 25 Cabalsstaple 41 Selected 1 Tidings 26 Mild cigar 20 Swillbowl 42 "-Pond" I 2 Resound 27 Wore
21 Was sorry 44 Macbeth 3 Legal 28 Ripening22 Ted or and others order 29 WisentGladys 4 Admonishing 30 Punctuation24 Speaker of word markbaseball 45 Real estate 5 Dress 31 Get up25 Ballet sign adornment 32 Heavy
position 
46 Lowcard 6 Puzzle volumes 47 Shrimp solver's 34 Made a 26 Styx dish needs fool of ferryman 50 Motherof 7 Woodwind 37 Traffic 29 Badluck Zeus 8 Soul: Fr. signal to some 51 Pekoeor 9 Cocktail 38 Two-wheeled 33 Beer oolong 10 Shrill cry carriage 
ACCENT is here 



···A 
c; \_\ 
'~~;;:;§ 
A new lecture sent:'~ sponsored by the Student Union and hall academic commissions. Featuring informal discussions'V\iiitrstl.J'(jents. faculty, and administrators on various issues and topics. 

Berke Breathed 
~A1A 
BVNCH Of... Of.. 

ANIMAL5l1 -J/i~~5~ 

Dave 

I PII>N'T 
'10U ARE HEREBY BUT ITS
THAT'5 NOT KNOW THE 
FOUND GUILTY-MY FIRST 
ENOUGH, PArE. GUN WAS 
OFFENsE I
\ .

LOAOEIJ( 
I

~ 
I 


The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Well, I dunno, Warren ... I think your feet may 
be uglier than mine.' 
40 Drop 48 Heal heavily 
49 Sundisk 41 Bamboozle 50 Paper 43 Donnyor quantity 
Marie 51 Air 44 Stylish 52 Send out 53 Competent 46 Unit of heat 56 Marsupial, for short 47 Adages 57 Bad actor 
Monday's Solution 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

• 

StUdent Union 

PRINTIN'G SERVICE-
New· Replacing campus Press Bring camera-ready poster art to S.U. RecordStor& for your posters and table tents 
Campus 
•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to SAS, 1 1 0 CCMB 

•3:30 
p.m. Engineering Seminar, "Mechanisms Controlling Gas Absorption at Sheared Gas-Liquid Interfaces," Mark). McCready, 356 Fitzpatrick 

•4:30 
p.m.-BiologySeminar, "Human Eosinop­hil Granule Cationic Proteins: Properties and Func­tions in Parasitic Diseases," Prof Steven Ackerman, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6:
15 p.m. -Support Group for Graduate Stu­dentWomenMeeting, Wilson Commons 

•6:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Special Problems of Women in Law," Prof Susan Vance, 303 Haggar at Saint Mary's 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Letter From Siberia," O'Shaughnessy Loft 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Placement and Financial Aid for Law Schools, Mrs. Kommers and Asst. Dean McClean, Hayes-Healy Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m.-Ground Zero Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•7:30 
p.m. -Discussion, American Presidents, Max Lerner, CCE Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival Lecture, Chaim Potok, Washington Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Slide Presentation, "Jesus in Jerusalem," Rev. Jerome Murphy-O'Connor O.P., Center for Social Concerns 


TV Tonight . 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Straight Talk 16 ATeam 22 The Mississippi 28 Foul Ups. Bleeps and Blunders 34 NOVA 
28 Ripley's Believe it or Not 16 Riptide 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 American Playhouse 28 Oh Madeline 16 Remington Steele 
28 Hart to Hart 

Bloom County 

Mellish 
YOU ARE CHARGED I PlfAI> IYITH WIHFUH Y TEMPoRAllY 5HOOTINC YOUR INSANITY. PACTNER IN THE "JI1HU5H '' (OMlC 1 
\ 


11FTF-R JHE BOYS SHOOT, SKIN 
AN17 fJUT THE 80TH Of YOU, 
Wf..'u-13r; 1YINfJ YOU 10 THe 
feNC!!3R Of OUR TRUGI<. ANI7 
TAKINb YOU HOM£ 1V 6AT NOW THeN, HOW PO YOU PRUeR. TO 8e PRePP.REf? R.. 
THAl'S NOT I P1.fAP 
ENOU6H, I)!IVf. SEXUAL 
~ FRUSTRATION, 
Tuesday, February 28, 1984 -page 8


S~orts 
Costly turnovers contribute to decisive Irish victory over Flames 
By CHUCK FREEBY team also converted an amazing 20 Distanislao was pleascd with thc Sports Writer of32 shots. tcam cffort. The Flames came flying out at af­"I was happy with Carrie's ( Batcs) 
CHICAGO, Ill. -The Notre Dame ter halftimc with a 6-2 spurt keyed sccoml half cffort," shc said. "Lynn women's basketball team easily hy Tracy Manuel. Hcr efforts Ehhcn played well and Lan·tta defeated the University of Illinois­brought them within thrcc with (Willis) gave us a good boost of the Chicago last night 77-';R. The home 17:471eft in the game. bench with six rebounds." team, with only seven players who Revengto.struck hard as tht· Irish dressed, was no match for the more reeled off 10 points in three Matz led all scorers with 24 exerienced Irish. minutes. Carrie Bates and Trt· t na points. For the Irish, Keys and Bates 
Notre Dame had trouble at the Keys each had four points. 'lllC score had 16 each. Ebben w;L~ next with start with a testy 2-3 UIC zone. But a was 52-39, and the Irish put it into 13 points. six point spurt gave the Irish a 14-8 cruise control from there. The important scoring story was a !cad at the I ';:42 mark and got them 1 The major difference ofthe two disappointment to Notre Damt.·'s on their way. The six points were halves was the performance of lJIC's Scheuth. She had an eight-game the result of three careless lJIC tur­Matz. After her super showing in the streak of scoring in douhlt: figures novers. first 20 minutes, she could only going into last night that wa~ broken 
Trena Keys was responsiblc for manage scven points the ncxt timc by the Flames. two ofthe baskets while Laura Doug­out of the lockcroom. Bates was In the rcbounding category. herty scored the last one on a fast guarding hn onc-on-onc. Schcuth joint.·d Willis at :o.ix, hut break layup. "Carrie decidcd to hear down and Bates lead Notre Dame with seven. 
At 15:08, O.J. Johnson stole the not let Matz dominate her at l'ither Manuel of l JIC hall a game high of I I hall from Notre Dame and con­end of the court," said Notre Damc rebounds whilc Matz ended up with vertcd a layup to close the gap at I 4-coach Mary DiStanislao. In the I 5 eight. 
12. The Irish quickly responded minutes Bates guarded ht.·r, Matz Saturday, the Irish travel to widening it to six again. Mary Beth was held to three points. The Irish Dayton to take on the Flyns. Scheuth scored four of the points did a good job of denying hcr tht· "Dayton will he quite a game." that ended in a 22-16 Notre Dame hall. DiStanislao said. "The Flyn:o. are an lead. Aiding their own cause, the Irish accomplishcd and expcriencnl 
The two teams tratkd baskets for kept their turnovers at a low total of team." the rest of the first hal( ending with four in tht· second half. llnfortunak­Accomplislll'd is a suhtlc way of the Irish out front at 40-~~-ly for the l'lamcs, they were not able describing Dayton. They arc eur­
The star of the first half was Tanya Ito do the same thing, as their game .rently 2~-1 and ranked first in tht• Matz of lJIC. She had 17 points, total hit 27 by the end of the night. Division II national poll. (eight of whieh came off offensive rebounds) and six rebounds. The Flames took advantage of I 0 Irish 

Accident mars Bengal 

turnovers to stay in the game. 
The Notre Dame first half totals 

Bouts practice session 

displayed more of a team effort. Six Irish players had six points each. The ByJANE HEALEY tensive Care llnit. She informed 1be Assistant Sports Editor Observer the patient is in stahlc con­dition. Tragedy struck the Bengal Bouts' According to Matthews, Culhane practice session yesterday after­regained consciousness after ahom 
noon, when Pete Culhane, an MBA one hour, and he has ht.·cn awakc 
student from Seabrook, Tx. pao;scd since then. ByJOE BRUNETTI 36-21 record, whilc not missing a tionals. Baty then rebounded with out after he finishcd sparring with a "He's awake anti fairly oriented," Sports Writer single match. an 11-2 win over Drake before fricnd. Mauhcws said. "He's frustrated be­
"This makes me hungrier for next losing to an LSll wrestler on a pin. According to Bengal Bouts officcr, cause he can't rt·memher every­It's like going to the dentist. It's year hecause of how well I did (at The week prior to the meet was Angelo Perrino, Culhane "took a few thing. lie can rccall most things, hut not somt.·thing that you enjoy, hut Regionals ),"said Krug. "And I think I fll.led with speculation for Baty. He shots like you always do," hut no­some other things, like South Bend. 
it's good for you. should he able to make Nationals was unable to practice much of the thing unusual happened while he he has trouble remcmbcring." 
Tht· Notre Dame wrestling team next year." time because of the knee, and the was in the ring. After his round, Culhane's injury is broatlly hcing didn't enjoy finishing a dismal Golic had the best chance of any practice time he got in was limited. Culhane hcaded for the drinking termed a subdural hcmatoma twelfth at tht· NCAA Regionals this Irish wrestler to make it to thc Na­He also wasn't sure whether he was fountain hut had to stop because he (hlccding near the brain). But the past wet.·kend, hut it was good for tionals, but a reinjured shouldcr going to wrestle until almost im­started to feel dizzy. extcnt of any possible damage can them. kept him from that accomplishment. mediately prior to the meet. It wao; whcn Culhane wao; on his not be determincd until further ex­
"It was good expericnn: for Golic, who entered the meet seeded "The injury really didn't bother way to visit the training room, that aminations. evt.·ryone to go down there," said fourth, heat his Eastern Illinois op­me," said Baty. "I think not being he lost consciousncss. Ambulances Officcrs of the Bengal Bouts art· heavyweight Mike (iolic afterward. poncnt 9-'; in his first match. able to practice is what bothered were called, and Culhane was taken quick to point out that blame for the "In Rcgionals it's rt·ally physical Then, the probkms began. His me. I just didn't have a good attitude to St. joseph's Hospital. wrestling, whkh is something that sccond match had him pitted against Marti Matthews, R.N. is the nurse our youngcr guys aren't accustomnl the sccond ranked heavyweight in see WRESTLERS, page 6 taking care of Culhane in the In-see BOUTS, page 6 to. It was good for them to l'X· the country from Northern Iowa. pt.·ricnce that type ofwrestling." Tht· junior injuretl the shoultlcr 
Although the Irish placed twdfth during the first period of the match out of thirteen teams, they showt.·d while trailing 2-0. The injury came considerahk improvcmt.·nt ovt.·r last on an illt-gal move used by his op­yt.·ar's pt-rli>rmance at Regionals, in ponent for which Golic was 
which they faikd to win a match. awartletl with a pcnalty point, a John Krug, Golic, and st·nior Mark small <.·onsolation for a prohahlc trip. Fisher all finished in sixth-place in to the Nationals shot down the t hl'i r respt·cti ve dasscs. drain. 
"We dcfinitdy improvctl since "The match was going wdl whcn I last yt·ar," said captain Phil Baty. hurt my shouldcr," said Golic. "He "Ami it should improve next yc:ar." usctl an illegal movc on my elbow." 
Krug, a sophomort.·, was tht· big­Golic was then forced to default gest surprisc for the Irish at 167. the rest of his matches for a sixth­Entt.·ring tht· meet unsccded, he lost place finish. Had he l'ome back and his first match against the 167-pulled off an upset in his match pounll Tcnnt.·sst·e wrcstkr 9-5. The against Northern Iowa, Golic would Dayton, Ohio rt.·sidcnt tht.·n came have hccn guarantccd of no worse hat·k with two win:-. in a row, one on than a sccontl-plan· finish and a trip a rdc.·rt-c's "uitcria dc<:ision," and to Nationals. lht· st·cond <.·oming hy default I. "I'm very disappointed," said a 
dejected Golic. "That is two years in 
Krug's sccond tlcti:at came at the a row (that I haven't been able to hantls of Indiana State as ht· was shut compelt'). This isn't real fun. I guess out IH-0. In his last match, t ht· again I just have to wait until next year." met up with his foe from Tennt.·sscc Golic was kept out of last year's losing a dose onc 6-5. His opponent Regionals because ofa concussion. went on to tht· NCAA Finals as a A real disapppointment for the 
wildcard. Irish was the 177-pound Baty. The 
"I ditln't expt.·ct to do this well junior was seedetl scventh in the coming in," said Krug afterward. meet, even though he had a knee in­The Notre Dame fencing team competed in a tri­will have a report 011 the results and afJrez•iew ofthe "Btl!, when I saw how close I came jury. He received a bye in the first meet with Illinois and Wisconsin over the weekend. upcoming Great Lakes Championship in tomorrow's to heating him I was disappointed." round and then lost I 1-3 against a 1be competition took place at Illinois. Mike Chmiel Observer. 
Krug was a mainstay for the Irish 177-pounder from Cal Poly-San Luis all-year long posting an impressive Obispo. who ended up going to Na-

Regionals disappoint wrestlers 

The <>hscrvt>r/Paul <:ifa.rdli 
The Notn> Dame women's basketball team took advantage ofan inexperienced llniversi~y of Illinois-Chicago team last night in Chicago. Tbt• Irish. seen here in action against Loyola, won the game 77-58. For more details, see Chuck Freeby's story at right. 
Golic hurt 








