Watt -page4 

VOL XVIII, NO. 81 the imkpenuent student newspapc.:r st.-r,·ing notre dame.: and sailll mary's MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1984 
Quick end expected for ND Nestle boycott 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT. water, frequently occurred leading Staff Reporter to progressive malnutrition. Also, mother's milk, unlike infant formula, The Nestle boyco:tt at Notre Dame contains immunities which help will be suspended within the next protect infants against disease and two weeks, according to John infection. As deplorable sanitary Borkowski of the World Hunger conditions prevailed, and many mot­Coalition. The boycott, originally hers couldn't read the directions for scheduled to run umil next year, is properly preparing the formula, being terminated following a joint UNICEF and the U.S. House of statement issued by the Internation­Representatives cited the use of in­al Nestle Boycott Committee fant formula over breastfeeding as (INBC) and Nestle. the cause of an estimated one mil­
The Commilttee, which lion deaths per year in developing represents many prominent or­countries. ganizations in the United States and As a result of the controversy, the Canada, including the United Auto World Health Organization (WHO) Workers and several churches, is lif­adopted the International Code of ting the boycott against Nestle as a Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes result of changes the company has in May 1981. The code provides 
·made in their marketing practices guidelines to industry, government, 
for infant formula in Third World health · authorities, and non­
countries. governmental organizations. The 
Over the last decade, controversy United States was the only country, 
has grown over Nestle's alleged in­in a 118-1 vote, to vote against this 
volvement in improper and unethi­voluntary code to encourage 
cal marketing procedures in many breastfeeding and to curb inap­
underdeveloped countries. At the propriate marketing and advertising 
core of the debak was mounting ofinfant formula, particularly in the 
evidence of a much higher sickness Third World. 
and death rate among bottle-fed in­Since the time when the (WHO) 
fants than among breast-fed infants. code was adopted, Nestle has taken 
As a result of extensive advertising several steps to implement this code 
and marketing campaigns, many in accordance with their own 
Third World mothers were led to marketing and advertising practices. 
believe bottle feeding their babies After intensive discussions involv­
was better than breast feeding. ing UNICEF and the INBC in which 
According to reports from the Nestle further clarified its policies, 
American Public Health Association, the Committee decided to end the 
Nestle encouraged the use of their boycott. Notre Dame is expected to 
products through the distribution of suspend its boycott soon. 
free samples and the enticement of In 1978, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
material and financial rewards to students voted to boycott Nestle, 
health workers that promoted the and the University Food Services 
formula "Milk nurses," salespersons honored the vote in their agreement 
dressed in nurses uniforms, were not to use any Nestle products. The 
hired to infiltrate the hospitals and boycott was continued after another 
persuade new mo1chers that infant student vote in 1982, and would 
formula was a superior form ofnutri­have been voted on again next year. 
tion for their babies as compared to The boycott can be cancelled 
breastfeeding. without a student vote, according to 
However, certain educational and Borkowski. However, a letter will 
financial barriers proved this to be have to be sent to the administration 
false. Many families could not afford from Director of Student Activities 
to buy the required amount ofinfant Jim McDonnell. 
formula their children needed. Con­According to William Hickey, 
sequently, overdilllltion of the for­
see NESTLE page 5
mula, often with contaminated 

SMC ,election meeting sched1uled for tonight 
ByDIANNE MCBRIEN president for student affairs; and 
News Staff Julie Strazzabosco, vice president 
for academic affairs, is competing 
This week promises to be a politi­with the ticket of Michelle Manion, 
cally important one for Saint Mary's president; Maureen Karnatz, vice 
students as they vote for 1984-85 president for student affairs; and 
student body and class officers.. In Chris Hart, vice president for 
order to acquaint students with can­academic affairs. 
didates and their platforms, Saint Running for senior class officers 
Mary's student government will are: Maureen Galligan, president, 
sponsor "Meet the Candidates Anne Bowler, vice president, Marty 
Night" tonight at 9 in the second Bonich, secretary, and Jane Raub, 
floor parlor at Haggar Student Cen­treasurer, against Debbie Pascente, 
ter. president, Mary Sue Dunn, vice 
Campaigns officially opened last president, Tracy Bringardner, 
night at II and wi.ll continue until secretary, and Regina Pinotti, 
midnight Wednesday. Candidates treasurer. 
were required to :submit platforms The junior candidates are: Julie 
by midnight Saturday and were an­Harmon, president, Janet Biegel, 
nounced yesterday afternoon. vice president, Suzy Welsh, 
Voting will take place Thursday secretary: and Beth Steber, 
from 7 a.m. until 6 p.m. in Haggar treasurer, versus Mary Beth Lavez­
College Center. zorio, president, Linda Cascio, vice 
In the race for student body president, Chris Jack, secretary, and 
offices, the ticket ofLee Ann Franks, 
see SMC page 3
president; Anne Marie Collman, vice 

Lech Walesa, leader of the Polish Labor Union delivered a letter from University President Father 
Solidarity, seems happy to learn of the honorary de­Theodore Hesburgh to Walesa, which said Walesa gree be received from Notre Dame in 1982, although could pick up his degree as soon as be could get on 
he said he'd never beard of the school. Translater campus. 

WNDU interviews Lech Walesa; informs him of honorary degree 
By SCOTT HARDEK in Poland. Walesa had not been feel like I'm walking on a greased Senior Staff Reporter granting many interviews of late. tightrope ov.er a prison yard." However, they were informed th2t Upon kaving Walesa's apartment, 
It took the help of a local televi­he would be available for an inter­the group was apprehended by the sion station, but 1982's last degree view and went to Gdansk the next police. They were taken to a police recipient has finally been notified by day. station and allowed to sit in silence the University. They arrived early for the inter­for an hour. Then they were inter­
Lech W alesa, leader of the Polish view and were offered tea and rogated as to the content of their labor movement, Solidarity, pastries, despite being in what Kaz­conversation with Walesa but received a citation of an honorary mierczak described as an austere refused to answer. After two and a doctor oflaws degree onjanuary 24. apartment, while waiting for Walesa hal(hours, they were released. The degree was given in absentia on to return from work Both Strauss Kazmierczak considered the May 15, 1982. and Kazmierczak described Walesa Polish authorities to have "struck a 
Walesa also received a personal as someone who captures the spirit note of fear." Strauss, however, had letter from Father Hesburgh and a ofthe people. "He is charismatic and little fear ofbeing jailed orlosing the photograph of 1982 commence­very warm. You can see in him a videotape of the interview. "They ment dignitaries . applauding a dedication for a cause, justice ofthe are communist bur they are not that Solidarity banner and a Polish flag working man," said Kazmierczak . bad, yet," said Strauss. draped over an empty chair. . Kazmierczak reported that 
The citation was presented to Walesa was very pleased with the The group was in Poland to Walesa by Father Gene Kazmierczak citation although he had no previous record the conditions there and to of St. Adalbert's parish in South knowledge of Notre Dame. He said take pictures of Polish people who Bend. Kazmierczak, along with he would put it next to his Nobel had relatives living in South Bend. reporter John Strauss and Peace Prize in his museum at the The mission was funded by WNDU cameraman Dick Nemeth of WNDU Shrine of the Black Madonna, which and conceived by Strauss. Although 
television presented the documents Kazmierczak verified when he the object ofthe trip was not specifi­
to him in his apartment in Gdansk visited the museum a few days later. cally to interview Walesa, Strauss ex­Kazmierczak got the items into the Walesa described Solidarity and pected to see him. "He needs to get country by convincing a customs of­himself as in a state of limbo. He is his message out," said Strauss. 
ficer that the picture was a family not anxious to rock the boat and photograph and by hiding the cita­described his current stance as tion and the letter under his cloth­moderate. He fears if the current Kazmierczak views Walesa as "a ing. president is toppled the communists man offaith who has truly sacrificed 
Father Hesburgh had previously might try to replace him with a his life for others. He is proud of his tried to get the documents to Walesa foreign leader. faith." He quoted Walesa as saying, through various dignitaries but was Walesa feels that the fall of "My faith gives me the strength and unsuccessful. Kazmierczak believes Solidarity was that it happened too stamina to keep going." , his relative insignificance insured fast. He believes the approximately his secrecy. Said Kazmierczak, "I'm a ten million people that were stinker for trying anything as long as originally part ofSolidarity have not Segments of the group's trip and it's a good cause." lost hope. He is relying on the the interview will be shown every 
The group was not sure ifit would resolution of the Polish people for night this week ·on the Channel 16 be able to see Walesa before arriving future developments. Said Walesa, "I News at 6 and 11. 
The Observer Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 2 

In Brief 
Purposeful dumpingofhazardous waste is viewed hy most Americans as a worse act than some homicides, the justice lkpartment said yesterday. Reporting on the largest survey of at­titudes towards crime to date, the department's Bureau of justice Statistics said public attitudes are more consistent than might be assumed from the disparity ofcriminal sentences around the nation. The survt."y, based on questions asked of60,000 people over age 17 in 1977, could be a first step in establishing uniform sentencing guidelines for judges and juries. The bureau said that the public ranked so-called victimless crimes, such as personal use of small amounts ofdrugs, among the least serious ofoffenses. But the agency said that most people consider bombings, corporate fraud, nmmmm mental pollution, and official corruption to be major offenses. The most serious offense, receiving a 72.I score, was a bombing of a public building in which 20 people are killed. The least serious of­fenSt.", receiving a 0.2 score, was a person under I6 playing hooky from school. The numerical ratings were mathematicall t y weighted so that a crime considered twice as serious as another would receive a rating double the other crime's rating. -AP 
Reagan is coming home today. and former 
neighbors packed into motels for miles yesterday as the I S,800 resi­dt."nts of tht· Northern Illinois community of Dixon prepared a huge birthday celebration welcoming Reagan to his boyhood home. The National Weather Service predicted up to 2 inches of snow yester­day, with 3S mph winds gusting to 60 mph. But today's forecast t·alled for clt."aring skies, with an afternoon high ofabout I3 degrees. "We havt." a just a few snowflakes in the air right now, to give the town a little character," Mae McClerndon, owner of the com­munity's "official" President Reagan souvenir shop, said yesterday aftnnoon. "Hut I don't know how long it's going to hold out. It's gt·tting windy." Reagan's trip was to bt."gin with a dedication of the just-restort."d home on South Hennepin Street where he lived from 1920 to 1924, followed hy the parade and a birthday party at the high school gymnasium, attended by 3,600 people. Reagan was to leave Dixon hy helicopter for Eureka College, his I932 alma mater, for a half-hour speech. -AP 
Of Interest . 
The 1984 Saint Mary's College Bowl all-star team will chalknge tht." Saint Mary's faculty tomorrow in the Chameleon room at tht." Haggar College Center. Games will begin at S p.m. The team c:onsists of six playt."rs chosen for their outstanding perfor mann· in the rq~ular St."ason games. Those students selectt;d an Melissa Stiles. Linda Weeks, Betsy Dooly, Kate Livingston, Antoinette lluhhk, and Teresa McFarland. Faculty participating in the chal­lengt· match are Clave Renshaw, Gail Mandell, Tony Black, and Richard Pilgn. The all-star team will participate in the Regional Col­kge Howl at Purdue University where they will take on the best 
tt."ams from other schools in Region 9. -The Observer 
Father Gerard Defois, professor ofsociology at ln­srirut Catholique de Paris and former secretary general ofthe French Catholic Hishops Conference, will give two lectures on the interna­tional peace movement and lJ. S. nuclear policy in Europe today and tomorrow. Father Defois will address Notre Dame's Nuclear Dilem­ma class at 3:2S p.m. today in the auditorium ofthe Center for Social Concerns. He will give a leer t ure at 4: IS p.m. in Room I05 ofthe Law School. Father Defois is a p t rincipal author of the French Catholic bishop's recent declaration on nuclear war and disarmament, which was considerably less critical ofcurrent NATO military policies than its American counterpart. His most recent publication in the Parisian journal, "Etudes" is titled "Modern Weapons and Ethical Respon­shilities."-The Obsen•er 

Weather ­
Surprise! It's going to be very cold today with a modest high of I 0 degrees and a slight chance ofsnow flurries. Partial clear­ing tonight, and .very cold again, with a low ofzero. -AP 

The Observer (liSPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home foothall Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the .tlnivcrsity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions my be purchased for $2S per year ( $15 per semester) by writing The Observer, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member ofThe As­!loclated l're!IS. All reproduction rights arc rr:sc:rvcd. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Production Consultant .................... Steve Design Editor........................................Troy Design Assistant ................................. Willy Typesetters ........................... Michelle. Nick News Editor ........................................... Tom Copy Editor........................................... Marc Sports Copy Editor................................... Ed Viewpoint Layout................................ Tom Features Copy Editor ......................... Mary Photographer .................................... Thorn? 
Tbose of us wbo won't take tbis serlous(y resenttbose ofyou wbo do ... 

No hang-ups with SMC phone system 
Ma Bell hasn't rung the Belles of Saint Mary's telephones since the summer of I982 and although there are still some problems with the billing system there are few complaints. Recent gripes concerning Notre Dame's new phone system, Infonet, raised ques­tions about Saint Mary's system, ROLM. 
The old system, Centrex, which went through the now divested Bell system was just that, old and outdated; it was installed in the late 1960s. Problems with transmitting calls and computer data prompted the change along with the escalating cost to maintain the system. Ma Bell was getting greedy in her old age. During the past three years prior to the switch to ROLM, Bell exacted more than 20 percent price in­creases a year, but at the same time quality of service declined. Bell was using salvaged parts for repairs and according to Controller jason Lindower, prices should have declined because the equipment was fully depreciated and services were deteriorating. 
ROLM cost almost S I mil-
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
call happened to be long distance, it had the effect of putting the call on hold, which resulted in outrageously high hills for 200-minute calls which never lasted that long. 
The College is the bill collector with the new system. Students no longer get bills from Indiana Bell (with the exception offoreign calls, priority calls and collect calls accepted hy students). A W A TIS line is used for long distance calls and the rates are based on Bell's rates less IO percent. The College didn't get the lowest possible 
WATTS rate because it isn't 

lion but the College got its getting maximum usage money's worth. With the from the lines. This means change to ROLM came some students rarely have 'to wait welcome advantages stu­for a free line. Also, added dents did not get with the this year is an override num­Bell system. Tan pushbutton ber to the 77 long distance wall phones replaced the access code. Ofcourse using style and elegance of black the option of 73 is more ex­rotary desk phones. More pensive since the caller is 
importantly, students now guaranteed a free line. have several calling features "Borrowing" a student's only a or away. All campus hilling number without her phones have the capability knowledge has not been of performing I 0 features, much of a problem. Accord­among them conference ing to Podlesak it would take calling with up to eight per­between 45-60 minutes to sons on a line. come up with a working 
Some features were dis­combination (or about the 

continued soon after the system was installed be­cause of problems with the hilling system's software. Until this academic year the features could only be used when dialing off-campus. Beginning last fall the con­ference call was reinstated and all features can be used when dialing on and off-campus numbers. Many stu­dents are not aware ofthe on-campus addition. 
Students were sent instructions on how to use the features when the system was installed and again last fall. Administrative Assistant for Communications Pauline Podlesak has offered training St."ssions in in­dividual halls to get students feeling confident about using the features. While only the hall directors at­tended, the effort has been made to inform students. That's a step ahead of Notre Dame students who were left guessing how to dial long distance. 
Like lnfonet, ROLM was not without its kinks. The obvious annoyance was phantom phone calls (phone ring hack resulting from not depressing the switchhook long enough between calls). Moreover, if the pr~vious same time it takes Notre 
COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-10p,., Mon·Thurs. Counsehne r.~ a free. confidenltal telephone service that offers professronally taped materrals thai cover a w1de vanp~:"!.!-?.f•.~.luden1 concerns  
TAPENO TITLE 1 F'nendsh•p 8wldtng 7 Oeahng Wtlh Construcltve Crthcrsm 8 Oeahng Wtlh Anget 9 Underatand.ng Jealousy ana How to Deal wtth 11 10 How to Say "NO' 18 Becomtng Open to O&hers 18 O.Mg S•ulls 30 Amuety and Posstble Ways to Cope Wtlhll 32 How IO Deal wtlh LOf'lhness 33 How to Handle Furs 35 ButiOtng Hlf·Eiteem & Confidence 37 Aelaarng EuuctSI'S 38 Copmg wtlh SlrttSs 39 Female Se• Role· Cn.noes ana Stress 44 Learntng to Accept Yourself 61 What•s Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope wrtr. a Broken Relatronshtp 85 Understandtng Guel SkJ Helptng a Frtend 160 Early s•ons of an Alcohol Problem 181 Responstble Oectstons About Onnluno 402 Seii·ASserltvtlnHS 431 What rs l>ttpresaton t32 How to Deal wtlh Deprns1on 433 Oep,ess•on aseltle Style .t78 Becommg Independent hom Perent:. 47'9 Deehng w1lh Alcoholte Parents 491 Su1Ctd8l Ct1SIS C!il2 Recognwng Suicidal Polenhll tnOihers 4i3 HeiPI"'So~~~.aSulctdaJCr•lls  
Counullnela • completely enonymoua urv.ce ollered by the Counullng I Paychofcl91cel S.rvlcea Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between9·5 --CLIP AND SAVE·­ 

Dame students to get a free line). If a student has used another's number the offen­der can he traced (the hills from two offenders were on Podlesak's dt."sk Friday). 
What all this means is that Saint Mary's campus callers are able to phone whomever they wish whenever they wish quickly and more cht·aply than with Ma Hell. Amidst all tht." havoc of tht." Bell divestiture the phont." company swears customers will get the same good service (that we never got). Saint Mary's is heuer off now that the apron strings are cut. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

itruns out 
you won't have to. 
The exciting Pilot ballpoiat. It's got everytlliag goiag for it. Smoother writiag. Specially desigaed fiager ribbing for coatinaal writiag comfort • S~nless steel poiat. lllngstea carbide ball. Per­fectly balaaced. A cboice of mediam or fiae points. Aad best of all...yoa'll aever throw it oat. 
jast slip Ia a 39e refill udyoa're ready to wriie 


i€5(PILOT]
tile ....Tile He i!t Pu.tlllltlpotat pea. 1lE8ET1ER BALLPOINT 
The Observer Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 3 
Lost shuttle satellite termed a ''total loss'' 
Associated Press damage to the spacecraft" and the failure apparently was in the rocket 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -The that was to carry it to Westar VI satellite, which was lost af. geosynchronous orbit, he said. The ter being launched from the space satellite had separated from the shuttle Challenger, was found yes· rocket, called a Payload Assist terday, "completely healthy" but in Module, he said. the wrong orbit, leading officials to In early ground testing of the call it "a total loss." booster rocket, it had failed when a 
A ground station in California nozzle came apart, allowing the succeeded in changing the satellite's rocket plume to surround and over­position so that its batteries could heat the rest of the engine, Ziegler 
charge from the sun's energy, said said. This caused an undirected Bill Ziegler, a spokesman for Wester firing and eventually snffed out the Union, which owns Westar VI. flame. 
"As far as we know, we have a Based on radar data, the failure in spacecraft (satellite) that's in the space was consistent with the one wrong orbit that's completely experienced during ground testing, healthy," he said. he said. The orbit Westar VI ac· 
However, there was no hope of hieved and a second large object raising the satellite to its planned seen on radar bolstered that theory, 22,300-mile-high orbit where it he said. would be stationary above Earth, he said. The most that can be hoped for Ziegler said Westar VI could stay is that "we might get a few hours in orbit for years but he doubted twice a day," he said. "In the par­whether any rescue was possible. lance ofcars, I think it's a total loss." "This satellite wasn't designed for 
that purpose with that possibility in 
The satellite, representing a $75 mind, because it was intended to go million investment by Western Uni­up to geosynchronous orbit," he on, was ejected from the shuttle's said. "Maybe at some point we could 
.Law School performs Moot Court 
cargo bay Friday. The loss was bring in another PAM engine up insured, the company said. there, attach it and go on from there. 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
The case concerned the considered a passive shareholder,"There was "no evidence of any But that's pretty far-out thinking." 
StaffReporter petitioner, Rocky Vitas, a profes­meaning he was no longer a member sional tennis player who purchased of the class protected from fraud by The judges found in favor of stock in a computer company. The Congress.

Speakers to highlight 
Rocky Vitas, the petitioner, in respondents, Loretta Younger and Her partner, Slevin, pointed out Friday's 34th annual Moot Court in Michael Burton, informed Vitas that that "The relationship between the Ubrary Auditorium. The Moot the financial condition of their com­Younger and Burton fails to meet 
Court was performed for a panel of pany was sound. Younger, although

26th Finance Forum 
any of the requirements of a distinguished judges and a Notre 
Chairman and President of the com­(racketeering) <.rganization." The By MIKE MILLEN are in the midst of modern-day Dame audience by four third-year pany, stated that Burton was solely 
judges challenged· this by asking if News Staff financing, she feels that students will law students who had presented the responsible for the success of the 
they in fact were not after one Speakers from Dean Witter and have a better grasp ofcurrent trends same case in the competition 
company. Burton, however, became criminal purpose. Slevin responded American Express are slated to ap· in the financial world. As an ex· sponsored by the Young Lawyers seriously ill, and after three months by stating declaring that, "While a pear tonight and tomorrow night at ample, Keller cites the fact that Committee of the Association ofthe Vitas discovered that the company 
criminal act may in fact be a con­the 26th Annual Finance Forum, financial institutions are currently Bar of the City ofNew York. was actually in serious financial !piracy, a does not
conspiracy sponsored by the Finance Club of trying to expand. Dean Witter is Patrick]. Pedro and Matthew T. trouble. Younger made an attempt 
indeed have to be an association or Notre Dame. looking toward European markets, Miklave were the Counsel for the to save the business by purchasing organization." This evening, Vice President so Kealy will be giving a very timely Petitioner in the case, facing Sheila an orange company in Florida. Vitas Patrick]. Kealy, of the Dean Witter presentation. C. McCarthy and Robert P. Slevin, filed a complaint, urging that the 
Despite his and McCarthy's at· Financial Services Group, will speak The Financial Series, which has who played the Counsel for the respondents were guilty offraud and tempts to win their argument, the on "International Capital Ma rkets." been running for twenty-six years, is Respondents. The judges of the ofconducting a pattern ofracketeer­
judges decided in favor of the 
Tomorrow evening, American held twice yearly. In the fall, the Court included the Honorable Ed· ing activity. 
petitioner. But even before the ver­
Express Vice Chairman Aldo focus is on financial institutions in ward D. Re, Chief Judge of the Pedro spoke first, attempting to dict was announced, Miklave said, "I Papone, who is involved with the sseneral. The winter speakers, United States Court of International verify the respondents were guilty don't really think the decision mat· Travel Related Services Division, is ho•·:ever, concentrate on major Trade, and the Honorable James L. 
of fraud. His partner, Miklave, ters that much. This was just a scheduled to speak on "The Market· trends in business. Ryan, Justice of the Supreme Court claimed violation of the Racketeer celebration of how we did in New 
ing ofFinancial Services." The presentations, co-chaired by of the State of Michigan. Another Influenced and Corrupt Organiza­York." The four placed third in the According to Colleen Keller, vice Tina Coin, are open to anyone in· judge, Jean E. Dubofsky, couldn't ap· tionsAct. 
quarter-finals at the competition.
president of the Finance Club, the terested, and will be held at 8 p.m. in pear at the Moot Court due to ill· During McCarthy's argument, she Forum is designed to "give students the CCE Auditorium. An informal ness, but was replaced by Prof. stated that Vitas " ...has gone judges faculty were
The and 

a chance to be exposed to the real reception will follow at the Morris Kenneth Ripple of the Notre Dame beyond the role corporate law states 
pleased at how well the four stu­world." By featuring speakers who Inn. Law School. he is to remain within if he is to be 
dents argued. It was a pleasure for 
I 
the counsels to have such distin­guished guests at Notre Dame as well. "All the judges were excel­
lent," Miklave said. 



NO CMUAN BAND 
Justice Re was delighted with
CAN MAKE YOU THIS OFFER. 
presiding at the Court. "This was a Ifyou're a musician who's serious The Army has bands performing It's a genuine, right~now, imme~ perfectly wonderful, splendid argu­
ment," he said. "I have always had a
about performing, you should take a in Japan, Hawaii, Europe and all diate opportunity. 
high opinion of the Law School at
serious look at the Army. · across America. Compare it to your civilian offers. 
Notre Dame. Now I have concrete Army bands offer you an average And Army bands offer you the Then write: Army Opportunities, P.O. evidence." of 40 performances a month. In every~ chance to play with good musicians. Just Box 300, North Hollywood, CA 91603. Judge Re referred to Counsel Slevin's earlier religious allusion.
thing from concerts to parades. to qualify, you have to be able to sight~ 
ARMYBAND. "When you referred to the Church
Army bands also offer you a read music you've never seen before and 
of the Holy Trinity," the justice
chance to travel. demonstrate several other musical skills. BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
joked, "I thought you were resorting to prayer. It would have been right· fully appropriate." 
SMC 
continuedfrom page 1 
Bethany Hoke, treasurer. 

There are three tickets on the sophomore class ballot, which may mean a runoff next Monday. The tickets are: Michelle Coleman, presi· dent, Jenny Blantz, vice president, Sara Honnigford, secretary, and Pat· ty Curran, treasurer; Mary Flynn, president, Erin Mullarkey, vice president, B.A. Otto, secretary, and Dee Dee Shary, treasurer; and Jeanne Heller, president, Angie Hundman, vice president, Betsy Burke, secretary, and Jill Jillig, treasurer. 

•\ ~-'-••••••••••JI•••••••••·•.. •••_.. L ___ ·.· _ _: _.: _ _::._.:..:.::;::.__ ~--·----------------~ ___ .J 


The Observer Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 4 
Watt one of volunteers working for re-election 
A.o;sodated Press speak to organizations that still con­
sider him something of a national 
WASHINGTON -At least two hero. 
fi1rmcr high-ranking Rc:agan ad­Hugel, Lake said, is a member of a 
ministration officials who left under campaign advisory committee made 
a cloud arc working to re-elect the up of people who worked in 
president, and a third is helping Reagan's past campaigns. Before he 
write the platform on which Reagan was appointed deputy director for 
will run. operations at the Central Intel· 
Jim Lake, spokesman for the ligence Agency, Hugel organized 
Reagan-Bush campaign, said former ethnic groups for Reagan in the 
Interior Secretary James Watt and I980 campaign. 
tht.· CIA's one-time spy chief, Max He was among the first Reagan ad­
Hugel, are working as volunteers in ministration officials to leave 
the re-election effort. And Reagan's government. 
first national security adviser, In July 1981, The Washington 
Ri<:hard V. Allen, is a paid consultant Post p.~blished the allegations oftwo 
to tht.· Repuhlican National Commit· brothers who had had business 
tee, where officials said he is helping dealings with Hugel and claimed he 
draft the fi1reign policy section of had illegally engaged in a stock 
the GOP platform. manipulation scheme with them. 
Watt, whose two and a half years Hugel denied any wrongdoing but 
ofstt.·wardship of the nation's public resigned immediately, saying he 
lands ;;nd natural resources had wanted to avoid imposing a burden 
been swirled in controversy, is not a on the OA and his colleagues at the 
rt.·gular membt.·r of the re-election agency. 
committe<.-, Lake said. But he added His accusers, Thomas R. and 
that campaign director Ed Rollins Samuel F. McNeil, bothofNewYork, 
"has said we will use him in any way dropped out of sight almost im­
wt.• can." mediately after their charges were 
Watt is "very strong with <.·on­puhlishcd. Their financial empire 
servative. fundamentalist religious has since crumbled, and two oftheir 
groups and with many in tht.· West," companies accused the hrothers of 
Lake said, and he will be ao;ked to stealing the firm's assets. 

New blizzard strikes Northern Plains states 
Associated Press upon us so fast," said Dennis Emer­
son, Minnesota state patrol com­
Blowing snow and a new surge of munications supervisor. And after 
arctic air immohillzed much of the the storm hit, "there was nothing 
Plains yestt.·rday with hlizzard condi­moving Saturday night." 
tions that killed at least seven people In northern and central Iowa, 
and stranded thousands more. visihility was so poor snowplows 
Hundreds ofmotorists were rescued were ordered off highways. 
hy the National Guard. "It's blowing and drifting so bad 
Tht.· latest installment of this win­we can't even see our pumps," said ter's hig chill drove temperatures Tony Smith, an attendant at the helow zero and trapped cars along Boondocks USA truckstop along In­highways as winds gusting to 60 terstate 35 near Blairsburg. mph created near-whiteouts. The He said the station had heard by cold air was forecast to reach as far citizens hand radio from three 
south as Texas, with snow spreading people stuck in a van. from the Great Lakes. "They've got two feet of snow in 
An estimated 800 motorists, the van, they're barely surviving in caught hy surprise, were stranded there," Smith said "We've been Saturday night in motels, res­trying to get to the van but we taurants, schools and armories in a haven't been able to. They're 50-mile stretch along Interstate 90 praying a lot. from Sioux Falls, S.D., to Wor­thington, Minn. The mercury in both "We have nothing that works, no states plunged to 16-helow over­four-wheel-drives, no cars that will night. run .... Even if they were working, 
"I'd say it's the worst storm so far the highway's so hlocked you can't this year, due to the fact that it came get out anyway." 
Eating Disorders A 10-week structurr group will 
meet two evenings weekly beginning

• Anorexia Neroosa Feb. 23 on the Notrr Dame campus. 
• Bulimia SYMPTOMS Note: Not all vlctlms display all symptoms 
•
Abnormal weight loss 

•Refusal 
to eat, except for tiny portions 

•Binge 
eating •vomiting 

•
Abuse of laxatives, diuretics, emetics, or diet pills 

•Denial 
of hunger 0 Ellccssive exercise Distorted body image:sce themsleves as 


rat though actually thin •Depression 

•Preoccupation 
with food 


•
Absent of irregulac menstruation in women 



No, Fatherfohn's Used Churches bas not opened in designate. O'Connor, who was previously bishop of New York. Father john]. O'Connor is merely very hap­Scranton, Penn., said be plans to "get to know people py to arrive at St. Patrick's Cathedral as Arcbbisbop-personal~y" as archbishop. 

El Salvador informant murdered 
Associated Press mer U.S. ambassador to El Salvador, and, in some cases, has been con­
accused the administration of tradicted by other embassy reporh 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. Em­concealing evidence implicating filed after White's departure. • bassy in El ~alvador has lost two key D'Aubuisson in the 1980 murder of In addition, the officials, speaki~g sources ofinformation about rightist that country's Roman Catholic arch­only on condition they not be iden­military violence over the past three bishop. White also said the ad­tified, said the embassy has lost con­years, with one informant possibly ministration had done little with tact with the two Salvadoran sources murdered because ofwhat he knew, information on six wealthy Sal­who provided the information cited administration officials say. vadorans in Miami who, he charged, by White last week. 
The officials said the loss of those direct death squad activity. sources -and not an intentional White was ousted as ambassador One official said the military of· cover-up by the Reagan administra­in January 1981 by President fleer who tied D' Aubuisson to the as­tion -has prevented action against Reagan. sassination of Archbishop Oscar Miami-based exiles allegedly tied to However, officials familiar with Arnulfo Romero was himself mur­right-wing death squads or against the administration's evidence dered in San Salvador about two rightist leader Roberto D'Aubuisson. disputed his complaint, saying the years ago "probably because ofwhat 
Last week, Robert E T. White, for-information is far from conclusive he knew." 

Place BOOKSTORE Date MONDAY J FEB 6 Time 2: 00-4: 00 P.M. Deposit Required $ NONE 

The Observer Nation of Islam leader campaigns for Jackson 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -In the Rev. Jesse jackson's moment of glory -a welcome home after his Syrian tri­umph -a chant rippling through the crowd called for another man. "Speak, Farrakhan. Speak." 
The man answering the call was Minister Louis Farrakhan, a spellbinding orator. His presence was a sign that jackson again had done something other politicians could not. 
Farrakhan is the leader of the Na­tion oflslam, an offshoot ofthe Black Muslim separatist group once led by Elijah Muhammad, who rejected the American political system and tradi­tionally regarded the white man as 
the "devil." 
Under Elijah Muhammad, "Politics was just a game among white folks. A black man had nothing to gain," says C. Eric lincoln, profes­sor of religion and culture at Duke University and author of"The Black Muslims In America." 
Yet how, Farrakhan, who scholars say copsiders himselfElijah Muham­mad's only true apostle, has im­mersed himselfin a campaign for the nation's highest office. 
Farrakhan, 50, says he will accom­pany jackson to City Hall on Thursday to register to vote for the first time in his life and bring hundreds ofothers with him. 
That even surprises him. "If you had told me just a few years ago that I would be participating with Reverend jackson in a presidential campaign, I probably would have thought you were a litde off," he said in one of the first interviews he has given in seven years. 
Farrakhan says he and other Mus­lims will help • jackson's voter registration drive by signing up to vote and "encouraging black people who felt locked out of the political process to do likewise." 
Tho~gh it is a cam_i)aign for a black man, Muslim scholars say it still is unprecedented for the Nation of Is­lam and Farrakhan. a protege ofMal· colm X who took over the slain minister's New York mosque after his death in 1965. 
But Farrakhan says his support of jackson's campaign is consistent with Elijah Muhammad's teachings. 
Elijah Muhammad, he explained, said "Ifwe have a black person who is standing up for justice and is not afraid to fight for the best interests of our people, we should give him the total backing and support of our people." 
In Jackson's candidacy, he says, "You see a person who is not only good for black people ...but ul­timately good for America." 
In recent months, Farrakhan also has proclaimed a willingness to work with othergroups -including whites -for social and political change. 
"There can be no more sidelines today," Farrakhan said at a Washing­ton rally withJackson. "We watched Dr. Martin Luther King march frmm Selma to Montgomery. The majority were on the sidelines." 
Farrakhan has accompanied Jack­son on the campaign trail in Wash­ington, Chicago and Detroit.Jackson aides consider him a surrogate for Jackson at rallies. Muslim bodyguards have supplemented Secret Service security in some cities. 
"God has opened my heart to my brother," Farrakhan said in Washing­ton. "I refuse to let Reverend Jesse Jackson to go down into the Valley ofthe Shadow ofDeath by himself." 
Some speculate Farrakhan, who journeyed with Jackson to Syria, may have been instrumental in the negotiations that capped the high­light of Jackson's candidacy -the release of captured U.S. airman Robert Goodman. 

r~J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'J"'.JC'rH~~....-..,.........J"'......J"'J'"...c:r....-....-....-~....-...r.r.,...,........,..,..,.J"'1 
~ The'Paddy Noonan Band and 8§ Comedian Hal Roach present: §
I an "Evening in Ireland" ~ ~~ (their special tour ofthe U.S. and Canada) ~ 
l Feb. 13 8:00PM Washington Hall §8 _.__.:~.~ j Feb. 14 8:00PM O'Laughlin Aud. (SMC) 8 
YOUR BSN IS WORTH AN OIFFICER'S COMMISSION IN THE ARMY 
Your BSN means you're a professional nurse. In the Army, it also means you're an officer. You start as a full-fledged member of our medical team. Call your local Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. Or stop by. 
Call Sgt. Moore or Sgt. Haggard 

(815) 727-9120 
Call Collect 
ARMY NURSE CORPs: <v ' '­
BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
The Observer/Thorn Bradley


·Middleman \ 
Notre Dame junior Tim Fallon finds himself the Apartments Beach Party this weekend. The kisses were center ofattention as he is sandwiched between two provided courtesy ofSMC seniors Marissa Estacio and amorous Saint Mary's students at the Notre Dame AmyTayl?r· 

Entire Lebanese Cabinet resigns 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Prime Minis­ter Shafik Wazzan and his eight-man Cabinet resigned yesterday, and President Amin Gemayel said he might scrap the May I 7 troop withdrawal agreement with Israel as demanded by his opponents. 
Wazzan, a Sunni Moslem, said he was stepping down to allow forma­tion of a national coalition govern­ment that might help end Lebanon's factional bloodshed. 
After accepting the resignations, Gemayel, a Maronite Christian, called for a cease-fire and said he was inviting Lebanon's warring Moslem and Christian factions to Geneva for reconciliation talks Feb. 27. 
"The agreement (with Israel) has put us in an embarrassing impasse that led me to refrain from ratifying it," Gemayel said in a speech broad­cast on nationwide television. "I see it necessary to continue all efforts to find a formula that would guarantee the complete withdrawals (of foreign troops) from all Lebanese territories to safeguard Lebanon's in­dependence and sovreignty." 
A few minutes after his 15-minute speech, artillery shells and rockets could be heard crashing into Beirut's embattled southern sub­urbs. 
Earlier, Shiite Moslem militiamen seized control ofmuch ofthe road to the Beirut airport, where U.S. Marines are based, leaving the 
r--1
The Notre Dame Finance Club presents ... 
THE FINANCE FORUM 
TONITE 8p.m.
~~ JQ • tickets: $5 with ND ISMC I.D. ~ $7 general admission tl 
Patrick Kealy, Vice-President of ll (tickets available at S.U. ticket Office and § I Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. § O'Laughlin Aud.) 8 
CCE Auditorium
8 CHANCE TO DANCE 8
I I§L
FEB.l3 ........-­8 Munchlea, dancing at CJaautauqua all/or $5 S 
b-...ococrJ"'J"'~J'"J'".JC'rJ"'J'"...c:rJ'"J"'J"'J"'J'"J'"J"'J'"J'"J'"....oc:.er..o""J"'J"'J"'~J"'J'"~.l ~.JC'r..oc>"'~ 
riiHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHIHIH................HIIHIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIII...II ~ 
Best SellingAuthor FRAN LEBOWITZ Tuesday, February 7 
s·p.m. 


Carroll Hall SMC 

L ...........HIHIIIIHIHIIIIIHHHIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIHIIII........................... 
I 
Lebanese army in control ofa single checkpoint. 
Twelve people were killed in heavy fighting yesterday between the army and the Shiite Amal militia at the Galerie Semaan crossing in Beirut, bringing the toll from. the four-day battle to at least 70 slain and more than 250 wounded, police reported. 
Gemayel accepted the resignation of the Cabinet the day after a top Shiite Moslem leader called on all Moslem ministers to resiJtn from the government. 



Nestle 
continuedfrom page 1 

director ofUniversity Food Services, use of Nestle products will resume after the boycott is suspended. He has received no word from the ad­ministration as of yet. "I respect the decision of the institution. If the decision of the institution is not to buy certain products, they will not be bought," he said. 
Student Body President Brian Cal­laghan feels that overall, the campus boycott has had a positive effect. "I think if there's ever a case where there's a moral judgement being questioned," such as in the deaths of third world children, "a boycott or anything we can do is a good sign, because we're one of the few schools that even bothers doing something like that." 
SCHOLASTIC is acceptin~ applications for the position of EditQr·ln· Chief. Call Jim Genther at 239-7569 for details. 
Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 6






ViewP-oint 
The history of second presidential terms 
With Ronald Reagan riding high and raising all the excitement, let's talk ofsecond terms. 
They have been less frequent than we think. My memories as a young history student start with Woodrow Wilson, the first consecutive two-time president since Ulysses Grant. 
A college professor turned politician, Wit-

Max Lerner 
The Lerner Column 

son was the liberal intellectual's hero. He hetd p<:ople by the spell ofhis words and ideas. He was litnate, eloquent, brilliant, vain and cer­tain that he possessed a pipeline to the AI· mighty. f-lis first term wao; crowded with historic legislation, and he fought a little war in Mexico. 
lie wao; re-elected in 1916 on a pledge to stay out ofthe war in Europe. He didn't. Allied armies beat back the Germans in a bloody futile war and Wilson dominated the peace. He carried his fight for the League of Nations to the people in a heartbreaking speaking campaign, was felled by a stroke and ended his term a paralyzed old man sitting in a wheel· chair. 
Franklin Roosevelt, elected in 1932, electrified the nation and world with his New Deal, and ran for a second term in 1936, on the issue of extending what he had built. He won handily over Alf Landon. 
His second term was more radical than his ftrst but he overreached when he tried to purge his party ofSouthern conservatives and pack the Supreme Court. The New Deal fal­tered, but FDR was rescued by the second World War which meant a war-readiness economy in America which gave the un­employed jobs again. 
Dwight Eisenhower's first term was a success, and in 1956 the war hero won for a 
second time over Adlai Stevenson who was a 
retread of Wilson. But his second term was 
trouble-filled as the nation moved toward the 
domestic tensions of the '60s and the misad­
ventures of the U-2 spy plane, the Paris sum­
mit and the Cuban revolution. 
After a first term in which he wound down the Vietnam war and established a detente with Peking and Moscow, Richard Nixon in 1972 rode a wave of triumph over a bumbling George McGovern. 
But even before· his victory he had set the fuse at Watergate which exploded his second term and forced him -after tortured writh­ing~ -into resigning. 
These have been the four second-term vic­tories in our time, after a full first term. What lessons, if any, do they carry for Ronald Reagan's prospects? 
Note that three ofthe four were charismatic -two as liberal reformers (Wilson and FDR) and one (Ike) as a war hero. Nixon was none ofthese but had a brilliant political mind and a driving will. Reagan belongs to the charis­matic group. 

Note also that both Wilson and FOR came to their second terms as leaders of a political revolution. So does··Reagan, a revolution-in­reverse against the ce~ralized welfare state of Roosevelt. 
Note Finally the use ofthe peacemaker role. Wilson's slogan in 19 I 6 wa~ "He kept us out of war' -and he plunged into one when reelected. FOR's second run.came before the Great War, but this third run -1940 ­against Wendell Willkie, repeated the Wilson slogan. Ike was in bet brilliantly effective in ending the Korean war and avoiding any others. And Nixon, although he inherited the Vietnam war, won in l972'for a peacemaker role with China 
Is there any doubt what Reagan's foreign policy slogan will be to match the one on the return ofthe economy. 
LosAng~ln Tlmn .~vndlcale 




Should Catholic laypeople wear Roman collars?: 
Should priests wear Roman collars? 

A re<:ent issue of U.S. Catholic includes a column, a survey and several letters on the question. 
The column, written by Dan Herr, favors the Roman collar. He argues that "too often 
Keith Picher 
Profundity's demise 

fanatics, in search of the trendy, push reform 
to the ridiculous. In other words, everything 
n<·w and untried is not necessarily good; and everything traditional is not necessarily ob­solete." 
lie thinks it is hard to distinguish a priest from a layperson these days. For the most part prksts "don't want to b<· bothned" by the symhollic dress -choosing to remain anonymous t•xcept when in the church or rec­tory "wh<·re they seem content to be as cleri­cal as ever." 
He also notes that clerics are practical, since priests "have about as much clothes sense as an iguana ... priests in mufti and ex­priests stand out like neon signs because of their outlandish clothes: a pink seer-sucker suit, blue walking shorts on beefy theighs parading down a busy city street, hand­painted ties, combinations of shirts and ties and suits that might have given Salvador Dati pause." 
The article's inconsistency should have struck even the casual reader. On the one hand Herr thinks priests should be more visabk, though on the other, he complains that priests stick out in public because ofpoor dress. 
Perhaps the best comment came from a reader who wrote, "I think Dan Herr is worry­ing about the wrong thing. What about the Catholic layperson who neatly conceals the fact that he or she is Catholic? ... It is vital that we become very real signs of the presence of Christ in our everyday life." 
The writer has a point. Vatican II taught that 
p • 0 • BoxQ 


Alcohol pacifier 
DearEditor: 
Frank Leyes' lctt<·r of Fo::b. 2 "Alcohol over­kill" compares th<· prohibition of alcohol to tht· taking away of a baby's pacifier. He claims that once th<· "crying stage" is over the "child's horizons expand and he sees a wide opt·n world of possibilitil·s of which the pacifier is an exaggt·rated part." 
I find two major errors in this analogy. First, he contradicts his statement about the quality of Notre Dame students by comparing them to short sighted infants. Ifstudents are, in fact, "p<:oplt-of outstanding <:haracter," should th<·y not he entitled to make their own d<·ci­sion concerning akohol? 
Also, alcohol is not, as the pacifier, an exag· g<·rated part of the real world. Alcohol is a very intt·gral part of American society. From the three martini lunches to the wedding ren·ptions, alcohol is pr<·st·nt, acceptable and virtually unavoidable. College hao; always lx:en th<· place where children can grow into adults and It-am to function in an adult world. Why tht·n should the students not becom<" cd· ucatnl in drinking as wdl ao; math and English? 
The University claims to want responsible drinking but they threaten to rob us of the chance to learn to be responsible. Who can say that they've always done everything right the first time? 
As a junior, I can see marked differences in the way my friends and I drink now as opposed to the way we did as freshman. Sure there is some abuse on campus but that is primarily the 'uneducated' lowerclassmen. Is it not better to learn to deal with alcohol in college where a blunder is inconsequential rather than being pushed into an alcohol­ridden society unprepared and irresponsible? 
Rather than comparing students to children 
with pacifiers why not compare them to kids 
with bikes. Shouldn't we be allowed to fall 
down in the grao;s or on the sidewalk a few 
times than just being thrown into the street 
and told to go! 

joseph]. Buch 
Editor's note: Are you tired ofreading View­point columns uritten by white Anglo­Saxon Catholic male seniors? Ifyou could help us diversify giw Keith a call at 239­
7471. 
the Church is the People of God, not just the hierarchy. 
And so, in the interests of satisfying tradi­tional and modem Roman Catholics, perhaps laypeople should start wearing the clerical garb so priests won't have to. 
Yes, it might sound a bit absurd. But fashion designers can convince people that anything is stylish, given the chance. 
Such a scheme might cause a few headaches. Though Catholic laypeople would stand out, priests would be indistinguishable from, say, Protestants. But many conservative Catholics think there is little difference these days anyhow. 
Imagine, millions of Catholic laypeople wearing ~oman collars. It would be hard to walk dov. .1 a city street without running into someone with a magical black suit. 
Many U.S. Catholic readers seemed to think the ge•-up carries with it some mystical powers. A reader from Minnesota says, "Just the sight of a Roman'collar can fill me with a deep sense of peace and well-being knowing that God is still present in our world." 

A writer from Texao; says, "I have always admired priests in clerical clothes and nuns in habits. It gives them much more dignity." 
And one writer from New York says she "just can't feel the respect for a priest who does not dress like a priest." 
If the outfit does have some magical power, why not have laypeople wear it? Ifit is merely a symbol, why do so few understand what it represents. How many Catholic laypeople have any idea why the suit is black and what the symbolism ofthe collar is? 
On the whole, 63 percent ofthe reader sur­veyed by U.S. Catholic agree that priests s~ould wear Roman collars. Bul at leao;t a few disagree. 
Eugenic Malinowski from Connecticut ao;ks, "Why in the wmld is it necessary to be able to point out a priest by his uniform?" 
To paraphrase her words, will they know we are Christians by our suits and collars or by our love? 




EditorialBoard DepartmentManagers 
Editor-tn-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 

P. 0. Box Q, Notre Oame.IN 46556 ( 219) 239· 5303 Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager .. ..............Christopher Owen 
The Ohse-rr•er is th<· independent ncwspap<·r published by the students of the l'ni­Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Controller..................... .........................Alex Szilva'> versity of Notre Dame du l.ac and !'>aint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retkct News Ed;tor................................. Bob Vonderheide AdtJertising Manager ........................Jeanie Poole the J)(>licics of tht· administration of eitht·r institution. The news is retx>rted as ac­News Editor....................................Mark Worseheh Circulation Manager .........................Mark Miotto curatdy and as ohjectivdy as possible. l 'nsigned nlitorials represent the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski ~~vstems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams majority oftht· Editorial Board. Comm<·ntaries, leiters, and the Inside Column present Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan th<· views oftheir authors. Columrrspace is available to all members ofthe community. Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher Founded November 3, 1966. and the frt"l' expres:;ion ofvarying opinions on campus. through ktters. is t·no>Uraged. Features Editor.~ ............................. Sarah Hamilton 
Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower 



Showcase 
Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 7 
Sir Obnoxious 

Love those lines! 
by Marc Ramirez 

features staff writer 

S
ir o_bnoxious is having difficulty understandingwhat people have agamst these frequent occurrences. Beauty, they say, is in the eye of the beholder, and when Sir Obnoxious beholds these supposed hassles, they become objects ofloveliness when seen in the right perspective. In fact, when it comes right down to it, Sir Obnoxious can honestly say that he loves lines. 
Yes, my dears, lines, the ones you find yourselves in at the wrong 
times at lunch and dinner, and the ones you get into ifyou want foot­
ball tickets, and the ones you encountered when you got BillyJoel 
tickets. Those lines. 
While exclamations of"Ooh, I hate lines!" and "Who organizes these things, anyway? I'd like to kill him" pass back and forth among the crowd, Sir Obnoxious merely stands back, takes it all in, and grins. For again, it is the classic case ofa situation not being seen in the right light, and again we have a blessing disguised as a curse. If the things people got upset about were only seen in the correct perspective, everything would be a lot easier for evetyone, includ­ing Sir Obnoxious. Those exclamations Sir Obnoxious has been hearing should be "Ooh, ain't this great?" and "Who organizes these things, anyway? I'd like to shake his hand and buy him a drink." 
Observe, my friends, and see what an opportunity for obnoxious­ness a simple line is ...and the longer the better. SirObnoxiouscan­not describe the chill which swims up his spine when he sees a chance to get in a line. Remember -lack ofmanners is the object here, and one must derive pleasure from such.lfifone doesn't, then one has no business reading Sir Obnoxious' column. 
Get in line with a smile (and here Sir Obnoxious has in mind the lunch crowds at the dining halls), and liven up the boredom by start­ing a pleasant conversation. Sir Obnoxious has found that these quips are often a great way to get people talking: 
"Hey, I heard some Food Inspection guys are here checking on today's hamburgers." 
"Did you see Dean Roemer on 'People's Court?"' 
"Ha ha! My docltOr told me I have Bubonic Plague! What does he know? Ha ha!" "Has anyone seen my pet scorpion Gus?" Unfortunately some people do not take well to this type ofcon· 
versation, and should you find yourselfbeing banished to another line, try something different. Take advantage ofdense crowds, the kind which pack you in so tight that you find it difficult to move or 
breathe. The BillyJoel lottery crowds, for instance. 
Step on people's shoes; reach around someone and poke them in the ribs or somewhere befitting to your imagination and individual nerve; breathe down people's necks with a sinister glimmer in your eye and tell them you have a fetish for throat skin -the time passes so much faster when you do more than stand and wait. For bolder veterans ofrudeness, try eatingfour orfive bowls ofdining hall chili before getting in a long line. You may be surprised at the results. 
A truly obnoxious person is never squeamish, and will stop at no­thing to achieve the results he wants. One tactical measure which Sir Obnoxious has always enjoyed has been "back cuts," a wonderful way to annoy someone whose guts you despise. Back cuts are amazingly simple, and consist ofsniffing out your arch rival, picking out the person directly in front ofhim or her, and asking for cuts in line on the condition that you will give cuts back to that person. What it all amounts to is getting cuts in line from your arch rival, of course. 
Patience may be a virtue (and that phrase sounds disgustingly like something Miss Manners would say), but lines are no place for such trivialities. Sir Obnoxious advocates, endorses, even signs his name to the appreciation ofoffensiveness, and hopes to alert grumpy souls to the endless possibilities available while waiting in line (or if you're British orone ofthat crowd, a queue). When handled proper­ly, any line can be: a fine line. 
DearSir Obnoxious: the other night I went to see Gary Larson at the Library Auditorium, and since I really like The Far Side, I made sure to get there by 7:00 (the lecture was scheduled for. B). Well, my friends and I grabbed four seats right in front, and at about 7:40, when the Auditorium was packed, two guys came and told us we were going to have to leave ,mr seats because they were reserved for the Student Union. Well, I got pretty upset because there hadn't been any signs or anything, and I thought it waspretty rude for them to tell us that. As it turned out they sat on the stage instead, and by the time we noticed that, some other people had come and sat in our seats. Tell me ifyou think they were rude-you're the expert. 
Signed, Sitting on the Far Side 
Dear Far Side: Boy, I've gotta hand it to that Student Union. If there's been any one entity which has followed Sir Obnoxious' advice as gospel, it's been them. Yes, to answer your question, they were rude, and darn good at it too. And where do you suppose our Student Government leaders sat during the lecture? One can only speculate. However, they have adhered faithfully to my advice as well, so Sir Obnoxious envisions them somewhere in front, possibly on the stage. Be proud ofyour Student l.hion-Sir Obnoxious is. Don't forget that they also handled the BillyJoel lottery, with all those wonderful lines (see above). 
Feeling too correct? Address yuur inquiries on better ways to boorishness in redorgreen inkon the back ofan oldhomeworkas­signment to Sir Obnoxiousness, care ofthis tzewspaper. 

by Mike McCormick 
features staff writer 

A
fter seeing "S"IIkwood," 20th Century Fox's Dec. release, it has become clear that there may be a problem with thisfilm. The problem would not be with the movie itself, but with the expectations ofthe movie-goer, who may see this film under the wrong pretenses. 
"Silkwood" is based on the per­sonal and professional struggles of Karen Silkwood, who dared to point out the lack ofadequate safety measures and quality controls in a plutonium-recycling plant where she worked. She took an active role in her union's effort to correct these defects, and subsequently began to sufferfrom high levels ofradioactive contamination. She died in a mys­terious car crash in 1974 while on her way to show documented evidence ofher plant's wrong­doings to a New York Times repor­ter. It is speculated that she might have been run offthe road. The facility she worked at was owned by a large corporaton, Kerr-McGee, working over-budget and quite un­successfully on a United States Government contract. 
From this, many viewers may ex­pect an action-oriented, "thriller" film. Yet,"Silkwood" is a biographi­cal film, which follows a much slower pace than what its advertise­ments may suggest. "Silkwood" is impartial concerning the cir­cumstances surrounding Karen's death and does not attempt to raise controversy, something it could 
In the limelight 
have used to attract viewers. In­stead, it avoids becoming a propaganda film. "Silkwood" has no surprises, and no twist at the end to 
make to make this movie memorable. It just relies upon solid 
performances from the cast. 
The real purpose of"Silkwood" goes much deeper than just to show the life and death ofKaren Silkwood. It tells us ofthe small deaths that workers die every day by com­promising themselves just to keep their jobs to survive. It shows the frustrations (and often futility) of people standing up for their rights. 
Meryl Streep (Sophie's Choice) stars as Karen Silkwood Her acting is ofher usual Academy Award caliber and she will most like­ly receive another Oscar nomina· tion for this performance. She gives vivacity and depth to her character, and this coupled with similarities in her appearance to pictures ofKaren taken at that time, make her ideal for this role. 
The supportingcast includes Kurt Russell as Drew Stephens and Cher as Dolly Pelliker. Russell, who has long left the Walt Disney studios, demonstrates his ability as a serious actor in this role. The film displays Russell's highquality, naturalistic ac­ting that was not captured in his last work withjohn Carpenter (Escape From NewYork, The Thing). Russell plays the role ofKaren Silkwood's lover and friend. Cher, of"Sonny and Cher" fame, has her first major studio film role as Karen's closest· friend.and roommate, Dolly. Her fme performance here should estab­lish her as a high quality actress. Cher should be a front-runner for the Best Supporting Actress category in the Oscars. 

Mike Nichols(The Graduate) returns to filmmaking as director and co-producer of"Silkwood" after eight years ofstage activity. His work is commendable, both in set­ting the mood and portraying the fear ofbeing contaminated and the pain ofthe harsh scrubbings ofthe exposed workers. 
"Silkwood," without question, is high quality cinema. The ftlm's only major fault is that ofmany Hol­lywood biographical films: it makes Karen Silkwood seem more heroic and in control than she probably was. It is doubtful that her intentions were as honorable and unselfish as they were portrayed. At times, the backround music of"Amazing Grace" seems overdone. Karen's high level ofradioactive contamina­tion was never proven to be caused by a company member. There is a possibility that it was self-induced. Also,the night ofher crash, the autopsy showed a high level oftran­quilizers in her system. 
Most ofall, it is important to remember the thrust of"Silkwood;" that forwqatever the circumstances, Karen Silkwood, like many other workers, give up part oftheirdignity and pride just to survive. "Silkwood" ·is well worth the price ofadmission and I highly recommend seeing it. 
Say goodbye to Walnut Grove 
T
onight at 9 the village ofWalnut Grove will disappear in a blast of smoke and fire, on NBC-TV's special two-hour "Little House," enti tied "little House: The Last Farewell." The show can be seen in South Bend on Channel 16. 
Michael Landon, who has not only starred as CharlesIngallsfor the past decade, but has served as the show's executive producer and main writer, admits that there was a lot of sadness involved when he wrote the script which calls f0r the destruc­tion ofWalnut Grove. 
"There was one main reason I decided to blow the town up," he says. "We leased this land (green farm country, 40 miles from Hol­lywood) and built every house, office, church and hut used in the show .There was nothing here when we started. 
"We were notified that when the lease was up we had to return the property to the same condition that we received it -in other words, all those buildings had to be removed. 
"I decided to 'Yrite a script where the town would go out in a blaze of glory." 

I 

Sports Briefs 
LifesavingI Water SafetyInstructor Courses will be offered at the Rockne Pool at the following times: Lifesaving ­9:10-9:4';, IO:IS-IO:SO. 11:20-II:SO, and 1:20-1:5'; on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, I I :OS-12:0';, I :20-2:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays. and 12·3 on Saturday beginning jan. 21. Wat<:r Safety Instructor classes will be held from 9 a.m. to noon. There will be a 
charge of S6 for materials for Lifesaving classes and a $20 charge for Water Safety materials. For more information, call Brother Louis llun.:ik, C.S.C., at 239-6321. -The Obseroer 
Workouts for the 54th Bengal Bouts have begun and will continue throughout the semester leading up to the fights. No previous experience is necessary. Workouts begin at 4 p.m. every day in the north dome ofthe ACC. For information, call Angelo Perino at 3348, Tom Lezynski at 1728, or Mike Latz at 8308. -The Obsen1er 
A downhill ski trip to Royal Valley is 
being offered by the NVA. The trip, which includes transportation, lift tickets, ski rental, and lessons, covers the next two Tuesday nights. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6690. -The Obseroer 
Your Health is a three-night seminar sponsored by Cen­tury Club and NVA. The seminar continues tomorrow and Wednes­day, and is being held in the LaFortune Center Classroom (first floor). Lectures begin at 7 p.m. Tomorrow's lecture is "America's Changing Diet: Impro"ving on Salt, Cholesterol, and Fast Food." The speaker is Deborah Duskin-Morris from Saint Joseph's Sports Med health awareness program. Register for the seminar by calling NVA at 239-6100. The cost for the remaining lectures is S2, or Sl a night. 
-The Obsen'er 

The billiards tournamentbegins next week and 
registration will take place at the pool room desk. -The Obseroer 

Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 8 
A fitness screening will be offered on February 16 by NVAand the Century Club. The event will be conductt:d by the St. Joseph Sporrsmed/Health Awareness Program. The cost is $15, which includes tests of cardiovascular fitness, blood pressure response to exercise, muscular strength, symmetry, flexibility, and body composition. You must apply for the program in person at the NVA office by February 8. Call 239-6690 or 239-6100 for more details. -The Obsen1er 
A bowling league is being sponsored by the NVA office. There is a requirement that each roster have at least six people and the deadline for turning rosters is Feb. 8. Four members ofeach team will bowl each week for five weeks. -The Obsen1er 
Interhall Wrestlingtournament entries are due Feb. 10 at the NVA office. Halls may register as teams, and contestants will be notified of date and time oftourney. Weight classes will be 123, 130, 13 7, 145, 152, 160, 167, 177, and unlimited. -The Obseroer 
In water action, the men's swimming team defeated Kalamazoo College but lost to Bowling Green this weekend. The Notre Dame women lost a pair to Bowling Green and Northern Il­linois. See Mary Sieger's story tommorrow. -The Obseroer 
Horsey riders! There will be a very brief, but man­datory, organizational meeting tommorrow, at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Please bring along dues of $3 for club Hap­py Hour. All are welcome -bring your two-legged friends. Call Margaret at x8152 if there are any questions. -TheObseroer 
Cross-country skiingmoonlighter for s1 ski rental anytime from 7-10 p.m. on Thursday on the golf course. -The Ob­seroer 
Ken Barlowwill be on Speaking ofSports;omorrow,from 10-11 on WSND-AM 64. To ask any questions or just add a comment, call 239-6400 or 239·7425. -The Obseroer 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
in the game, netted seven of nine 
free-throw attempts in the last two 
minutes, earning him Coach Foster's 
praise. 
"Michad Foster has a lot of poise for a freshman," the Gamecock coach said after the game. "He played very intelligently. Tht: free throws that he made were very im­portant." 
Jimmy Foster led the team with 19 
points. Foster, a senior who had 
never before beaten Notre Dame, 
said afterward that it is a great 
feeling to beat the Irish. 
"It was an emotional game for me," he said. "They shut me down last year -they gave me my season­low five points -so I was really excited." 
The Gamecocks shot eight for I 5 (53 percent) in the second half, while the Irish hit only seven of 20 (35 percent) in the period. Carolina outrebounded Notre Dame, 33·23, in the game. 
The leading scorer for the Irish was Sluby, with I 3, while Kempton had 11. 
"I thought two things that were factors," Phelps continued,"were their offensive rebounding and the fact that we ended up shooting 41 percent for the game." 
South Carolina Coach Bill Foster added his impressions of the game. 
"They (the Irish) did a great job defensively," Foster said. "We could not get into our offense. We couldn't get into anything. Fortunately, our defense bailed us out at the other end." 
The Irish, now 14-6, will play host tonight to Vermont at the Athletic and Convocation Center at 8 p.m. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next· day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person. 
Classifieds 
or by mail. Charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. · 
NOTICES 

ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT· HERS! surra up but our pr1cea .,...,•t From )uat $1011.00 • apend 7 lun-ftlled d8ya In aunny Florldol. C811 for you,...ll or orgo~nla a email group and trr.MI FREEl G,.lll for clube, tool Call LUV TOURS (100) ~20011, Uk for An­netta. 
CRANSTON FOR PRESIDENT Anyone lnleresled in campatgnong lor Alan C ranston In the upcom1ng DemocratiC primaries conlacl Terry al 8764 CRANSTON FOR PRESIDENT 
WHICH DEPARTMENT CAN BOAST SUPREMACY IN GRAPHIC DESIGN? ARCHITECTURE OR ART? Colleg1a1e Jazz Feslival T·Shirt & Logo Conlestl Deadline Friday, Feb. 10. Subr111l enlnes lo S.U. Off1ce 
C.J.F. LOGO CONTIEST-ARKIES: EN­TER IF YOU DARElilt 
ART1STSIII1 Don'! EVEN think you·,. going to win 111111 competition .•.$25 Ia Ill lllakel At q1111rter beer night, thlll'd make quite a !*IYII Signed. your !ria t nda In Archllec:IUI'e ... 
BREEN PHILLIPS SPIRIT WEEKI!! GET PSYCHED THE DATING GAME· TUES. DAY 800 BP 24 HR LOUNGE VARIETY SHOW · THURSDAY 9:30 THE NAZZ KISS A BP GIRL DAY· FRIDAY All DAY EVERYWHERE 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MAS COKER 233· 7009 
ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST: One gray and whrte lhln·slnped long sleeve shirt w1th a small hole on the lop left shoulder II was accldenlally pul 1n someone's laundry by Sl. Michael"s laundry ServiCe belore Chnslmas. If you have rt. please relurn 10 J1m al X1101. 
FOUND: A photograph ol two kittena and one not too -lrd Fltz. Buddlee now and lrlendalo,.-. Call 232-0817. 
LOST. The TORSO of our mannequin. answers to Blanche was stolen from 2nd floor Slanford !he mghl of lhe i'cky Party x'"l/27) Anyone wrth 1nfo PLEASE call 284·5418. Grear sen11menlal value Reward. 
LOST Jan. 25111 Senior Bar-navy pea coli!. Plea• call 2n-G466. 
WHOEVER FOUND THE SHARP CAL· CULATOR IN THE BUSINESS BUILD· lNG. PLEASE CAll DAN AT 3670 
LOST OUANTIT ATIVE METHOuS TEXT AT SOUTH DINING HALL FRIDAY 1120 AT APPROX 1:15. ACTUALLY. I BELIEVE THIS TEXT WAS STOLEN. TO THE PERSON WHO STOLE IT IF YOU HAVE ANY CLASS, EVEN A LIITLE BIT. PLEASE RETURN THIS TEXT TO WHERE YOU FIRST APPREHENDED IT. NO 0 QUESTIONS ASKED. IF YOU REFUSE TO DO SO YOU ARE SCUM AND I HOPE YOU ROT IN HELL 
LOST:Biack Casio calculalor·walch, on Fri. Jan 27 If lound. please call Mart< al 1787 
LOST. GOLD BEAD NECKLACE WITH DIAMOND CHIP SPACER BETWEEN MIDDLE BEADS IF FFOUND. PLEASE CALL MARY AT 283·6781 
LOST: BLUE NORTH FACE COAT ON JAN 18 AT SENIOR BAR. I THINK WE JUST EXCHANGED COATS. PLEASE CALL AT 1695. 
Found: Calculator in Hurley BUilding al !he end of las! semesler. Call 1695 to cla1m. 
Found· New lexlbook 1n room 224 Cus· h1ng. Call Bob Boucher. x8315 Ia ldenlify andclllliT1. 
LOST. A new lhermodynamiCs lexl in room 226 of lhe Malh Compuler Building. Please g1veme back my book!II Call Amy. x7051 
FOUND a really mce·loolung Cross pen wrth somebody·s 1nscnpiKlfl on rt. Please please oh baby please call Greg al 8284 loldenllfy 
Will !he g1rl who wa~zed off with my sunglasses and my good buddy's lop hal please bnng !hem back. Thai wasn·r very niCe, you know, as a matter of fact it was pretty mean. bull"ll g1ve you !he benefil of lhe doubl s1nce you were probably wasled. If you can"! remember who you look !hose lh1ng .s lrom. call M1ke al8288. 
cause 11 was me. 
Concem1ng my los! accounl1ng book ... rm sorry I called you a loser before. I was 1n a slale of lemporary insanity and I really didn't mean to 1nsult you. I'm sure you're nol a loser: you probably canna! afford !he book. as I cannol erther PLEASE relurn lh1s book lo me. It really means a loll 
found brown cordoroy coal on 1 sl floor Zahm 2 wks ago call45 70 ask lor Carrie 
A blue Add1das book bag was los! allhe Soulh Dining Hall on 212. If found pleasse call Chuck al 1972. 

FOUND: A Man·s grey Saranac·· glove on Jan. 31 in !he part<ing lol of lemans al SMC. To cia 1 im please call leslie al284·
4380,,. 
LOST: One crimson-colored warm·up ;acket wrth lhe word Harvard"" on !he back. LAST SEEN in the ACC on 1121184. Reward offered. Please call GREG AT 2n-5062. 
FOUND ON 1130 · BLUE CAP BE· TWEEN LIBRARY & BP. CAll SYLVIA 6714. 
STOLEN from Soulh Dining Hall Thursday during lunch my INTER· MEDIATE ACCOUNTING bookc If you are the scum who abducted rt, please call 
7809 or return i, to where you found it orto lhe counler in lewis' lobby. P.S. Thanks lor having lhe decency Ia leave my nolebooks. LOSEH. 
FOR RENT 
Sludenl rental: 5-6 bedroom house. fireplace. dishwasher, & washer & dryer. Call 232-4057 or 272·n87. 
-one 11111le roommllle. Rent $110 per month. One mile north of campus. Ca11Tomlll2n-4151. 
AVAILABLE NOW· Efficiency apartmenl near Noire Dame on busline. 255·8505. 
WANTED 
Summer Sales PositiOn. Average ear· mngs $2700. Sell yellow page advertising lor Noire Dame and Weslem Michigan University Campus Telephone Direc· !dries. Spend 5 weeks in Noire Dame and 5 weeks in Kalamazoo. Car necessary. No summer school students. Lodging and one meal per day provided wh1le in Kalamazoo. Sign-up for interview by February 10 al Career and Placemenl Services. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED AS 5TH MAN. $110/MO. & UTILITIES. CALL2n-4851. 
Need riders lo RICHMOND/D.C. area. leave 219. relurn 2112. share usual. call JEFF NO. 8854. 
Walters or waitresses needed for ex­ecutive dining room experienced or will lrain.. apply Wed. 81h.31o5P.M. al 221 N.Fourth SI..Niles.M1.. No phone calls please. 
FOR SALE 
Wanllo know whal"s really going on in lhe Calhoilc Church? Reed NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER. lhe only newspaper of lhe U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a free sample copy. call Paul at 2n·4851. 
SA C90 rapes. $25 for case of 10 call Dan Meakin al2n·3306 
$$$$DESPERATELY NEED DEPAUL STUD. TIX CALLJEFF 1026 
NEED DEPAUL STUD. TfX CALL MARK(Mag1lla) 1059 
NEED FIVE TIX FOR DEPAUL!!! PLEASE CALL SHEILA 3484 
I NEED DE PAUL TfX"S. Will EX· CHANGE MAROUEITE TIX"S OR CASH. CALLJOELATNO. 1570 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA BASKETBAll TIX. call Greg at 2n·5062. 
NEED MAROUETIE TIX CHRIS 8229 
NEED 6 MAROUEITE TIX 8982 
NEED DePaul baskelblllf tlckllle. Ae many as you've got. Thla Isn't Chase Manhattan Bank, henl, so don't ask lor the !ann, but -will oller aomelhlng reasonable. Call 87651or details. 
Need 4 DePaullix(slu. or GA) Pele 1224 
Needed: DePaul GA"s call 2785 
Wanted: 3 GA's for Marquette Please! Family coming from PA Please call Amy 284·4326 
Needed up lo 4 Depaul lix. Call Janel al 284·4261 
4 SALE. 11 TICKETS TO SEE THE POLICE SUN. FEB. 19 AT THE ROSEMONT HORIZON IN CHICAGO. THEY Will BE SOLD TO THE HIGHEST BIDDERS. CALL 1193. 
FOR SALE: I he hottesllickellhis year:L Vermont I've gol len of lhasa priceless bab1es. No offers less than ten dollars, please. If you don"! wanllo miss !he excit· ing Calamounls lonighl. call Digjer allhe ACC. • 
....................•........................................... 

MY BROTHER GOES TO DEPAUL AND MY PARENTS WANT TO SEE ND KICK THEIR ASS. IF YOU HAVE TWO GA TICKETS PLEASE CALL DAN AT 3670 
NEED 2 DEPAUL GA's. Call Kalhy al 2966. 
Earn A LOT of$$. I need 2 or 3 DEPAUL GAs. Call Chris 3417. 
Anyone have some exira DePaul lix? I need al leas! 4 lor dad and his buddies. Call Rob al 3251 . 
PERSONALS 
You've come along way MONIOUE BOETIOI The day has finally arrived. legal· YAH!! Happy21sl Birthday ill ·M & N 
SENIOR SKITRIPPERS. MANDATORY MEETING FOR ALL THOSE GOING ON THE SENIOR CLASS SKI TRIP. MEETING IS ON TUESDAY AT 7:151N THE LnTLE THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE. 
EXPERT TYPING 2n·8534 AFTER 5:30 
LOVE IS•••FLOWERS ON 
VALENTINE'S DAYI 
REGINA'S VALENTINE CARNATION 
SALE 

BUY FOR A LOVER OR THAT SPECIAL 
FRIEND! 

ORDER FEB 5-9 4:30·6PM AT SMC 
DINING HALL 

CARNATIONS .75 EA. DELIVERED FEB 
14 

SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL WAmNG CONTEST Open lo all Grad & Undergrad sludenls Poelry & Prose ac· cepted with no length reqUiremenls Sub­mrt one copy with name and address lo · 309 O'Shag by FEB 1 0 Winners will be nolified by FEB 17 For more info call Palrick McManus 283·1754 
Phil God is a wolf·manl 

It's a Funky Reggae Party, and It's Saturday Night Chataqua, 9·1, $1. 
ARTIFICIAL BIRTH CONTROL:Is !here anolher way?YES!Natural Family Plan· mng IS SAFE.HEAL THY.and EF· FECTIVE.Everyone 1nv1ted Ia learn more Tue.Feb.7.7:30pm Hayes·Healey Aud. Engaged and marned couples call 237-7401 Ia reg1s1er for class slarting Feb.8 on campus. 
GET A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE CALL 272· 4453 FOR FREE DELIVERY MON· THURB-11 FRI8-3SAT8·1 ~ 
Marcy (Commons). Molly. and Becky of AuguSia. LITE beer has a lhird less CALORIES. Tonighl. break open your PIGGY banks 4 your own quarter beers. lis laken for GRANTed. 
hi ellen laid you i"d send you a nole 
ROOTS, ROCK, REGGAE 
KINKY REGGAE 
Amy, 20 days unlil Leonard 
Campua Comment• readers: Thorn Bradley has done a line rob pholograph· ing lhe feature !his year. bul some of us have amnesia and forget to give him photo credits. Thanks Thorn 
VOTE EXPERIENCE I JEANNE HELLER ANGIE HUNDMAN BETSY BURKE JILL GILLIG for Soph. Officer Fab. 9 HCC 
Men of quahty are nol lhrealened by women of equalily. Ne•lher are I he people who Will vote for MICHELLE COLEMAN soph. pres .. JENNY B T LANZ soph v.p .. SARA HONNIOFOAD soph lreas., PAT· TV CURRAN soph sec. 
AN ENTHUSASTIC TEAM 
VOTE FEBRUARY 9-HCC 
FRANKS 
KOLLMAN 
STRAZZABOSCO STUDENT BODY OFACERS 
At1ent1on SMC Juniors: For a great sen1or 
year vole Paacente 
Dunn 
Brlngardner 
Plnottl for Semor Class Officers on Feb. 9 al HCC 
SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETING TUESDAY AT 6:30 IN THE LITTLE THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE. BE THERE! ALL SENIORS ARE WELCOME. 


Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 9 
Last minute lapses 
Belles disturbing in tourney losses 

Ir··-----···-··------------··--, 
® 

Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive yourself 111tith a wei~ rounded meal from Dominds Pizza. We'll help smooth the wrinkles out of your day. 
Dominds Pizza makes this guarantee: If your pizza does not arrive within 30 minutes, ifs free... no coupon necessa1ry! 
I 
Fast ... IFree 
Deliver~ Call us~. 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
Hours: 4:30pm-1 am Sun.· Thurs. 4:30pm-2&.m Fri & Sat. 
Ask about our party discounts. 
Our drivers carry Jess than $20.00. 
I 
I 
I Moraday
I 
:I Special 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Bland of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 
12" cheese $4.79 
16" cheese $6.89 
Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4 
Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers and Sausage 
12" Deluxe $ 8.35 
16" Deluxe $12.05 
Additional Items Papperon~ Mushrooms, Olives, Green Peppers, Onions, Ground Beef, Sausage, Extra Cheese, Ham, Extra Thick Crust, Jalapenos, Anchovies 12" pizza $ .89 per item 16!' pizza $1.29 per item 
Coke-available 
Prices do not include applicable sales tax. 
Limited delivery area 
0 'fSI&4 Domino'a Pilla. Inc. 

L•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 
tC ai gnin 
Only $7.25 for a 16" 1-item pizza with two Cokes". Good Mondays Only. One coupon per pizza. 
Fast, Free Delivery~ 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
® 39033/2650 
r l I 

By DAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 
The fact that the Saint Mary's bas­ketball team lost both games at the Hanover College Basketball Tourna­ment was not the most upsetting part of their weekend performance. What was most upsetting was just how they went about the losing. 
For instance, Friday night's 75-70 loss to the Mountaineers of Berea College. While the score may seem innocent enough, consider that with only seven minutes remaining in the contest, the Belles held a com­fortable 68-55 advantage. 
Berea then took advantage of tur­novers and cold shooting, outscored Saint Mary's 20-2, and walked away with the victory. 
"I just can't understand what hap­pened in those final minutes", said a frustrated Mike Rouse, head coach for the Belles. "We tightened up, 
Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 
Some sloppy play plagued Notre Dame both offensively and defensively in the second period. 
"We weren't playingour positions and we weren't moving the puck well," said head coach Lefty Smith. 
But quickly in the third period the Irish regrouped, got theiract togeth­er and jumped to a 6-2lead with two goals before the five-minute mark. 
Chapman and Reilly did the honors as each netted his second goal ofthe night. 
The crowd kept the Warriors motivated, however, as they came right back to draw within two at 6-4, capitalizing on shots by O'Grady and Garry Handelman before the mid­way point ofthe period. 
Unfortunately for the Warriors, the Notre Dame defense tightened and the offense added three more goals. Steve Whitmore, Mark Ben­ning, andJeffBadalich turned on the red light the final three times. 
"Their crowd was very effective for them tonight," said Parsons. 
Swim 
continuedfrom page 12 
firsts in the 500-yd. free and 200-yd. 
I.M. while breaking the varsity record in the 200-yd. butterfly (in national qualifying time). She also helped teammates Margaret Man­nion, Byrne, and Whalen in their 200-yd. medley relay victory. 
Byrne, a junior, freestyled her way to two fU'sts, a second, and a third­place finish in four events. The firsts came in the two relay events, while the second and third-place finishes couldn't hit anything, and just lost all concentration." 
Saint Mary's played sound basket­ball for most ofthe game. The Belles pulled down 44 rebounds, including 13 by Betsy Ebert, I I by Elaine Suess, and 9 by Kris Pantelleria. 
The team even outscored the Mountaineers in field goals. Free throws made the difference however, as Saint Mary's managed only four of nine while Berea was putting in 21 of3 5 shots. 
"Our tendency to foul cost us the victory", said Rouse. "They went to the line four times as many times as we did." 
Pantelleria captured scoring honors with I5 points, while Suess put in I3 points, Ebert I2 points, and Lori White and Cyndy Short IO points. 
Saturday's 52-45loss to the Rebels of Thomas Moore College was remarkably similar to the previous game. The Belles were down 26-27 at the half, but with six minutes remaining fought back to take the 
"They got some quick goals and at times we seemed to let down. We just managed to outplay them when we needed to." 
Guay had 25 saves in earning the victory. Maziarek from Marquette made 43 in the losing cause. 
After a buffet dinner and recep­tion sponsored by the Notre Dame club of Milwaukee and an early morning arrival back at Notre Dame, the team came out Saturday just as eager to play in that night's contest. 
Instead, Saturday's game turned out to be no contest at all. The Irish quickly jumped to 4-I lead in the first period as four separate players scored for the icers. Parsons, Badalich, Reilly, and Dave Waldbillig all capitalized on the Warriors' inef­ficiency. 
John Hough tallied the lone Mar­quette goal at the 16:25 mark. 
Second peri od.scoring was very similiar to the first. The Irish again led in a 4-I trouncing of the War­riors, upping their lead to 8-2. Bowie, Parsons, Ely, and Whitmore sent the four pucks flying into the Marquette goal. 
Handelman was able to slip one by Tim Lukenda late in the second 
came in her specialties -the 100 and 50-yd. freestyle events. 
These four standouts were aided by a strong underclassmen bench which included Mannion, a fresh­man who placed second and third in the I00 and 200-yd. breaststroke and teammate Murtagh who also came in second and third in her specialty events-the 200 and 100­yd. freestyle events. 
Another freshman standout Kath­leen Kennedy showed her colors as she captured the 100-yd. butterfly in national qualifying time and grabbed a third in the grueling 200-yd. fly. During the meet three other team 

Who: Graduate Women What: Support Group When: Tuesdays, beginning 
Feb. 7 6:15-7:30pm Where: Wilson Commons Sponsored by Counseling & Psychological Services Center 
.• 

lead at 43-35. Then fate struck again, 
as the Rebels outscored the Belles 
17-2 in the final minutes to win the 
game. 
"We just lost our confidence in ·this one", said Rouse. "We couldn't 
shoot, we ran into foul trouble, and 
in the end, we were turning over the 
ball like I couldn't believe." 
The team shot a dismal 18 of 62 from the field for 29 percent, and Ebert was held scoreless and pulled down just three rebounds. The game was won at the line again, as the Belles converted just nine of 14 shots while the Rebels put in 24-32. Pantelleria again led the Belles with 14 points, while Suess and Teresa McGinnis had IO points. 
Saint Mary's travels to St. Francis 
College in Fort Wayne tonight, to 
make up a game that was cancelled 
last week due to weather conditions. 
The Belles are sitting at 4-I2 on the 
season, and hope to avert the jinx of 
the game's final minutes in this con­
test. 
period for the Warriors second and final goal ofthe evening. 
The third period saw the Irish hit for three more goals, all power plays. Bowie and Thebeau both used powerful shots early in the period to beat Maziarek. 
Parsons completed the hatrick at 
18:00 of the third period. He rounded out the evening's scoringas Notre Dame achieved its II-2 vic­tory. 
Lukenda needed just 18 saves to record the win while Maziarek had 45 in taking the loss. 
"We moved the puck extremely well tonight," said Smith. "We just had too much ability, skating power, and depth. And as a result, the games were not as exciting as we would have liked." 
The Notre Dame power play was four for six on the weekend. The Warriors were zero for nine. 
The Notre Dame string of con­~cutive home victories now stands at ten. 
The Irish will seek to avenge their lone defeat thus far this season on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at the ACC when they take on Lake Forest. The Foresters defeated 'the Irish 9-6 on January 25. 
members compiled a total of six third-place finishes and a stack of well-needed Belle points. 
Patty Juckniess grabbed two thirds in the I00 and 200-yd. back­stroke events, while Jean Wiegand copped two more thirds in the 100 and 200-yd. I.M.'s. Julie Gschwind added the last two thirds in her specialties -the 200 and 500-yd. freestyles. 
A pleased Coach Trees said, "Given the fact that we are un­tapered, this has been the best meet for us in two years." And it's no won­der. Overall, the Belles turned in some of their best times of the season as they smashed another four varsity records -leaving only three "pre-Trees era" records yet to be broken and qualifying more of their swimmers for national competition in March. 
Before the team looks toward the national meet, they have one more opponent to look forward to -tom­morrow at the Knute Rockne natatorium -as the Belles clash with the Fighting Irish women in their last dual meet ofthe season. 
Coming off a three-meet winning streak, the women should be able to make the annual rivalry against the Irish nothing less than interesting. If things go as well as they have been for the team, the Belles should im­prove their times even more in preparation for national competi­tion and attempt to take some of the fight out ofthe Irish . 
The Observer Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 10 
College basketball roundup 
St. John's loses in overtime again 
Associated Pre!ill 
The overtime period has become the Twilight Zone for the St. John's basketball team this season. 
Playing their third overtime game in two weeks, and their fourth over­all, the Redmen lost 59-57 to second-ranked DePaul Saturday. In overtime games, luckless St.John's is 0-4. 
In a 12· 7 season, the Redmen have made a habit of down-to-the-wire finishes. They have been in conten­tion in every game this season ex­cept for two big losses to North Carolina and Georgetown. 
In other Top T<.:n games, top­ranked North Carolina routed The Citadel 76-60; third-ranked Ken­tucky was upset 69-62 by Alabama; fourth-ranked Georgetown rolled past Connecticut 87-62; fifth-ranked Nevada-Las Vegas beat Long Beach State 79-65; sixth-ranked Houston hammered SMll 76-57; seventh­ranked Texas-EI Paso beat Brigham Young 85-77; No. 8lllinois trimmed Northwestern 71-52; No. 9 Memphis State edged Alabama­Birmingham 53-51 in overtime, and 
lOth-ranked Maryland was beaten by No. 18 Georgia Tech 71-70 in two overtimes. 
Elsewhere. No. 11 Tulsa walloped 
Drake 93-74; No. 12 Oklahoma, 
topped Missouri 76-65; No. 14 LSU 
defeated Georgia 69-68 in overtime; 
15th-ranked Wake Forest beat Clem­
son 76-72 in overtime; No. 16 
Purdue downed Iowa 48-46; No. 1 7 
Louisville tripped La Salle 93-88, and 
No. 20 UCLA was beaten by Wash­
In Sunday's games, Dwayne McClain hit a I 5-foot goal with for second t s remainining to give Vil­lanova a 77-75 Big East triumph over No. I 3 Syracuse, and Auburn, led by 

VerQlont 
continuedfrom page 11 
low all should be able to have their way against the smaller opponents. In fact, when asked how the Catamounts match up against the Irish, Whitmore replied, "We probably don't. Their inside, overall strength is tough. I think they'll be able to overpower us." Swingman Tom Sluby, leading the Irish with 
16.3 ppg, and point guardJoJo Buc­hanan will also play important roles. 
All the Irish will have to improve on their performan<.:es in Saturday night's game at South Carolina. Field goal and free-throw shooting will both have to improve if the Irish are to improve on their 14-6 record. 
In the only other meeting be­
tween Vermont and Notre Dame 
during the 1976-77 season, the Irish 
took home an easy win, 89-48. Asked 
why he was willing to take on the 
bigger and more talented Notre 
Dame squad this year, Whitmore 
knew his reasons. "We wanted to 
make money. Really, though, it's a 
good way to get some recruiting ex­
posure." 
All signs point to an overpowering win for the Irish. with no one from Vermont even expecting a chance for victory. But stranger things have happened, and if there is no im­provement on the part ofthe Irish, it could turn out to be closer than ex­pected. 
WANTED: Emergency Medical Technicians Advanced First Aiders Experienced Standard First Aiders 
To assist with Notre Dame's new First Response squad. Contact Dan x3895 for more information 

Charles Barclay's 28 points and giving the Blue Demons a 57-55 Chuck Person's four key foul shots, lead. But St. John's guard Chris Mul­upended Florida 67-55 to increase lin, who led all scorers with 21 its lead in the Southeastern Con· points, wiped that out with a pair of ference to a full game over Ken­free throws with nine seconds left. 
tucky. Brad Daugherty scored 16 points 
Kenny Patterson hit two key shots in a balanced North Carolina attack for DePaul, a 20-foot jumper in that buried The Citadel. The un­regulation that tied the score at 51 beaten Tar Heels won their 20th with I:27 remaining, and a 10-footer game, the 14th straight season that a with three seconds left in overtime. Dean Smith-coached team has 
With the score tied at 55, Patter­reached that plateau. In his 23 years son sank two free throws with 1 7 as North Carolina coach, Smith has seconds remaining in overtime, won 20 or more games I 7 times. 
NV A pairs 
All matches must be played and reported to the NVA office by Wednesday. Feb. 8. The NVA en­courages all matches to be played and reported at the earliest convenience, 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES Gels-Abd Allah-bye Kimmei-Crouch-bye Gardner-Bono-bye Magn-Zimmer-bye Bush-Macadam (1087) v. Gaub·Prevezek (8456) Barenton·Chludzinski (3137) v. Athaide-Zoretic (8922) Westhoven-Graf (3610) v. Flesh-Grammel Stacker (3626) Hogan-Mornsssey ( 1722) v. Casey-Partner (8833) McGowan-Tutchton (1026) v. Dice-Kress (8538) Basque-Partner (8502) v. Sernanni-Hardek (1371) Takagishi·Angelle (1395) v. Wotke-Wagner (6871) Brown-Van Derbek (277-3242) v. Lane-Hickey (1023) 
Three Locadoos to report to: Sooth Dining HaD Office (Basement) North Dining HaD Office (Mgr. Office) Regiatrar's Office (Vall-Dine I.D. Office) 

Walters· Waitresses· Laboren • &pedlten Unlvenlty Food Services· Notre Dame 1984 Ivy Award Winner 
ND/SMC Students 
PARTY 

Spring Break in Daytona. Beach 
INCLUDES 
•
Round trip motor coach transportation to beautiful Daytona Beach. Florida. 

•
FREE refreshments on the way down [the party starts here.] 

• 
8Fiorida days/7 endless nights at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels, located right on the strip. 

•
A full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day. 

•
A full list of pre-arranged discounts. to save you money in Daytona Beach. 

•Travel 
representatives to insure a smooth trip and a good 


time. •optional side excursions to Disney World. Epcot. deep sea fishing, etc. 

•All taxes and tips. 
YOU CANNOT FIND A BETTER DEAL OR A BETTER TIME OVER SPRING BREAK For further information and sign up ..,..:rHE BEST..OEAL TO DAYTONA BEACH Call Paul at 283-4358 or stop by 331 St. Edward's Hall $195 
Notre Dame 
Ha1mes-Reed (3377) v. Higgins-Sutler (1873) Wayne-Hannigan (1883) v. Grojean-Rademaker (1248) LaChance-Kuppe (0279) v. Bathou·Hillerman (8313) Boyle-Clement (3210) v. Grant·Baccenari (1746) Gleason-McAvoy (1847) v. Thomasson-Wick (1854) Humphreys-Roth (7912) v. Maher-Cuff (1 057) 
Schunk-Marlen (6706) v. Donata-Cohoon (239­7735) Doyle-Armour (3508) v. Ingrassia· Thursby (8438) Clevinger·Soha (8674) v. Rehder-Rogers (8022) James-Connelly (1530) v. Quinn-Hardigan (3483) Snyder-Staten (288·8631) v. Smith-Villareal (t628) Carney (1587) v. Coyle-Bianton (6380) 
Dugan-Hudson (1620) v. Kairis-Carter (3313) 
Boggio-Ryan (8459) v. Jacopin-Ciifford (8171) 
Bomemann-Bognano (1628) v. O'Doneii-Heglin (8648) 
Quinn· Riehle (8365) v. Sheperd-Drabot (1601) 
Delehanty-Sayre (1128) v. Haines·Sm~h (4521) 
The Observer/Paul CifaccUi 

Mary Beth Schuetb and herteammates on the Irish women's bas­ketball team Jared about as well as the men this weekend, drop­ping a tough 73-72 decision at Michigan State on Friday. More details on the game will appear in tomorrow'spaper. 
ATIENTION Holy Cross 
300 

Students Are Needed To Work Jr. Parents Weekend February 17-18-19,1984 
St. Mary's 



Mn. WUey (239-6147) Mn. Wydrynakl (239-6176) Me. Ropert (239-7814) 
~c:»cJlCl~------------------------------M_o_n_da•y-,F-eb_ru_ur
__6_,_19•8-4--p•ag_e__ll 

Bloom County 

Mellish 

GOOD AFTER,NOON, KIDS I'~ GEJIE BERII.Y, fA~dUS U liA/1{ 5HOW HOST, .4/10 I'II 
8£ fltliNC !IV fOR M McBRIEN T!JJ5 WWi 115 rm 
Guindon 



JOI>f.R I JOKEt I
~ C.Lit.t\,
50, NITHOUT fHRrf/~R A[)o, 

cLltK I 
11 FIIMOUI GIJOT[S Of
UT1S 1/AYE 0Ul FlklT SPIN 

(L/(K f.
j/Till ~~I
rJf {/If Wilf£1 fiOM Tilt GIRL 
If/ THE FI?ONT. 


Richard Guindon The Far Side Berke Breathed 


Dave& Dave 
Yn ,GENE, I'D LIKE TO GO 
OFF Tilt BDRKP TO "IIE8r<Ew CIIAfiTS" for< f ;lOO PLEASE. 

Gary Larson 

Campus 
•12:
15 p.m. -Workshop, Prof Sarkis Khoury, library Lounge 

•3:25 
p.m. -Speaker, Nuclear Dilemma Class, Fr. Gerard Defois, 124 Social Concerns Building 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc· tion to IBM PC, 11 5 CCMB 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Properties of Low·pT Hadron Interactions," Dr. Seog Hwan Oh, 118 NSH 

•6 
p.m. -StudentSenate Meeting, Hayes Healy, Open to the Student Body 

•6:30 
p.m.· -Workshop on Stress Manage­ment, Luis Valdez and Joyce King, Room 300 Stu· dent Health Center, Enroll in person or call 239·7336 before Feb 6. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Women's Caucus Meeting, Women's Caucus Office, LaFortune Basement 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Fllm Series, "M," An· nenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. Organizational Meeting, McGovern campaign for the Mock Convention, 1st Floor LaFortune 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "International Capital Markets," Patrick ]. Kealy, CCE Auditorium, Sponsored by Finance Club 

•8 
p.. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Vermont, ACC Arena 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Fllm Series II, "Shoeshine," Annenberg Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 

16 MASH 
22 PM Magazine 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 Contemporary Health Issues 
16  Barney Miller  
22  Family Feud  
34  Straight Talk  
16  Tv  Bloopers,  Commercials  and  
Practical jokes  

22 Scarecrow and Mrs. King 
28 Special Movie: "Arthur" 
34 Frontline 
16 Monday Night at the Movies 
22 Aftermash 
34 Great Performances 
22 Newhart 
22 Emerald Point, N.A.S. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
ATIM~ 1V W61GH ~CW7H€ 
5CIU Of HlftiAN VIJR/H••• 
I 


'"I once dated a dude who was so good·looking 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 29 Autocrat 48 Southern 5 Casino 
1 Recedes 31 Poetic holy man? employee 
5 Ellen or palindrome 57 In the 6 Morocco 
Nancy 34 Nautical least capital 
9 Disgrace word 58 Carnival 7 Tied 
35 George attraction 8 Tuesday 

Herman-59 Remain 9 Black eye 14 Bucket 60 Called 10 Multitude 15 Roof 61 Notion 11 Jai­
adjunct 36 Increase 62 Congressman 12 "I-man 16 Made a putt In size from NY with... " 17 Ms. Chase 37 Eastern 63 Pung and 13 Elysium 18 First bird? luge 21 Varnish 
fratricide 64 Cozy abode ingredient 
victim 65 Pintail 22 Hells19 Angry 40 Clgarend duck Canyon20 Midwestern 41 Giveoff stateAmerind? 42 Senior DOWN 
25 Tag
43 Meadow 1 Heroic 

26 Decrease44 Songbird tale 27 Fraternity23 Lease 45 Excep~ 2 Umpire's letter
24 Rubyor 46 Kind of call Sandra sauce 3 Pedal 28 Appointment 25 Climbing 47 Social 4 Certain 29 Commune aid Insect European on the Po 
..,A 11Mf 10 FfV'.£71£ GlilfT 5WIRUH6 NaSTRO'r'\ 
~ UFe IWP A5K: 
Ml I At£AF..? 
I 
"Take another memo, Miss Wilkens ... I want to God." •ee all reptile peroonnel in my office first thing tomorrow morning!" 
that I thought he was a manufacturer's rep for 

30 Opposite 46 Worked on of dele shoes 
31 Wearaway 47 Peruvian 32 Parts mountains 33 Water 48 Siestas 
pitchers 49 Lat. abbr. 35 Where all 50 Salary
roads lead 51 The old sod 36 1/4 pint 52 Right-hand 38 Ms. Streep man 
39 Hires 53 Inquires44 Large 54 List part amount 55 Call 45 Oust 56 Eliteor pica 
Friday's Solution 

Pink Floyd's Fr.IAlJDERDALE ~ THE WALL 
7 nights at Sheraton Yankee Trader ~ 9 Round trip Motor Coach $99 at Chautauqua 
-----------------~---Wed. Feb. 8 
Total Package $289 Plus many more activitie~ ~n!l ellcanionel Thurs. Feb. 9 For more info, caD NDSU at 239-7757 
7,9,11 

$50 DEPOSR due FRI., MAR. 10 
Adm: S1

at SU Ticket OfficeI Record Store!!! 
Sports 

Monday, February 6, 1984 -page 12 
Bill, Jimmy, and Michael Foster help Gamecocks over sluggish Irish 
By PHIL WOLF offensive play by the Irish and clutch the halfon four-for-six shooting, and Sports Writer free-throw shooting for the Tom Sluby had seven for the Irish. Gamecocks accounted for the ten­South Carolina, on the other hand, 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Notre Dame point margin. shot a miserable seven for 24 ( 29 Basketball Coach Digger Phelps said Carolina controlled the tip off to percent) for the half, and the last week that the South Carolina start the game and after the two Gamecocks' leading scorer, forward 
Gamecocks were "due to explode teams traded missed baskets, guard Jimmy Foster ( 18.8 points per on somebody." Jimmy Hawthorne put the game), had only three points. Gamecock coach Bill Foster Gamecocks on the board first. The Gamecocks were kept in the agreed. With 14:35 remaining in the first game by hitting five of six attempts 
"We're like a volcano," Foster half, however, the Irish had es­from the line, and outrebounding says. "We're sitting there, ready to tablished a six-point lead, at 9-3, and the Irish, 1 7-13. erupt, and it's got to erupt appeared to be controlling the After the intermission, South sometime." tempo of the game. The Gamecocks Carolina started to click, while the 
It did not look like either an ex­fought back, though, and the Irish Irish lost momentum. plosion or an eruption, however, were unable to extend their lead. Notre Dame began to make 
when an inspired South Carolina Notre Dame managed to hit nine mistakes on offense, South Carolina team downed the Irish Saturday of 19 attempts from the floor ( 48 crashed the boards, and the 9,138 night, 52-42, in the Carolina percent) in the first halfto take a 22-Gamecock fans made the Coliseum 
Coliseum. 19 lead into the Iockerroom at almost unbearably loud for the Irish. The game was close until about halftime. Then two Fosters, senior Jimmy the final three minutes, when poor Tim Kempton had nine points in and freshman Michael (who are not related to each other nor to coach Bill Foster) combined for 29 second-half points, while the
Irish dominate series 
Game<:ock defense held Kempton and Sluby to two and six points, respectively.
against rival Marquette 
The Irish had several steals and rebounds in the final minutes, butBy SCOIT BICHA Before a loud, ncar-capacity 
they were not able to convert their
and ED DOMANSKY crowd in the one-thousand seat 
possessions into points.
.\ports Writ...-s arena, it took the Irish over half a 
To stop the clock and try to gain
period to get the puck past Mar­
possession of the ball, Notre Dame 
Once again Central States Col­quette netminder Ken Maziarck. 
began to foul, committing 13 infrac­
It-giate Hockey League opposition The aggressive Warriors contained 
tions in the game's final three 
provided little challenge for the the Notre Dame offense until the minutes. 
Notre Dame hockey team. The Irish 13:49 mark of the first period when 
The Gamecocks responded by
crusht:d Marquette 9-4 on Friday in Thebeau connected for the Irish. 
making 13 of !9 attempts from the 
Milwaukee, then returned home to Then just over a minute later Chap­
line in those three minutes. 
the ACC on Saturday and pounded man picked up his 22nd goal of the 
Michael Foster, who had 13 points
the Warriors I 1-2. season to give Notre Dame a 2-0 lead 
see IRISH, page 8 
Co-captain Brent Chapman and that held through the remainder of Tim Reilly paced the Notre Dame at­the period. tack on Friday with two goals apeice. The Notre Dame lead was ex­
Easy Irish win? 
Bob Thebeau chipped in a goal and tended to 3-0 just 32 secon\ls into three assists. the second stanza as Parsons beat Saturday, three goals from Adam Maziarek with a drive from the slot. 
Vermont poses little threat to Irish 
Parsons, two from Joe Bowie and an­At 8:01 of the period, Marquette's other one goal and three assist per­Craig Gatto took Rick Carroll's By ERIC SCHEUERMANN lNM Head Coach Bill Whitmore day's contest. 
formance from Thebeau propelled centering pass from behind the net Sports Writer has one explanation for his team's llp front, 6-5 sohpomore forward the Irish to their double-figure vic­and heat Marc Guay for the first War­troubles. "We don't have a senior on John Simko is the big gun, averaging tory. rior tally ofthe game. The goal came From a look at the statistics it the team. We're inexperienced and 14.2 ppg and 6.2 rebounds, occupy­
'llte two victories improve Notre with the Irish on a power play and would seem that the University of we've been making too many ing second place on the team in both Dame's overall record to 19-1-0 and was the first such shorthanded goal Vermont basketball team should mistakes." categories. The other forward will its CSCIIL record remains perfect at allowed by Notre Dame this season. pose no threat to the Fighting Irish The Catamounts are led by 6-1 be 6-5 freshman Bill Brennan, 6.6 13-0-0. Reilly then made it 4-I a minute tonight in their game at 8 in the ACC. sophomore guard Howard Hudson. ppg and five rebounds.Junior center 
When the team arrived at the Wil­later with help from Steve Ely. The lJVM Catamounts are coming Going into Saturday's game at Matt Thompson, 6-7, leads the team son Park ke Arena for Friday's con­Marquette scored again with 1:38 off a 81-53loss at Dayton on Satur­Dayton, Hudson led the team in in rebounds with 6.6 per game, and test, former Notre Dame standout to play to keep within two goals. Dan day, have a record of 4-14, and are three categories, with 1 5.8 points also chips in I0.6 ppg. Phil Wittliff, now the coach and O'Grady's rising slapshot from the riding an eight game losing streak. per game, 73 assists, and 43 steals. The Irish inside game should be general managt·r ofthe International blue line slipped past the glove of They occupy seventh place in the His quickness could pose a problem. the key against Vermont. Tim Hockey League's Milwaukee Ad­Guay. eight team ECAC Atlantic Con­Joining Hudson in the backcourt Kempton, Jim Dolan, and Ken Bar­
mirals, provided it with a "red car­ference with a 2-7 conference will 6-4 sophomore George Payne,see HOCKEY, page9
pet" welcome. record. averaging 9.5 ppg going into Satur-see VERMONT, page 10 
SMC swimmers defeat Kalamazoo College 
By KATHLEEN NICHOLSON Senior Gail Casey, in a spectacular Sports Writer performance set two new varsity records in the 50-yd. free and 200­There seemed to be a little bit of yd. breaststrokt' while also captur­deja-vu in the air this past Friday ing first in the 100-yd. I.M. night when the Saint Mary's swim Surprisingly enough, only a year ago team met up with Kalamazoo Col­Casey's swimming career was in lege in a tooth-and-nail fight for team question when she suffered a swim­points and a victorious outcome. related knee injury which required 
It was almost an identical repeat post-season surgery. This obstacle of the 1983 meet as the Belles en­did not seem to slow Casey down as tered the final 400-yd. freestyle relay she has returned to record-breaking (the event that cost them a victory and establi!>hing herself as one of against Kalamazoo last year) with a Saint Mary's finest athletes. two-point advantage over their op­Senior Rosie Whalen again ponents. Relay swimmers Patty dominated the backstroke events, Juckniess, Joyce Murtagh, Ellen winning the 1 00-yd. event and Byrne, and Gail Casey had their jobs placing second in the 200-yd. event cut out for them as they knew no­in national qualifying time. She also thing less than a first place finish led the 200-yd. medley relay team to would give them the entire meet. a first-place finish and captured an­
The reliable four not only won the other second in the I 00-yd. butterf­event and the meet ( 7 4-6 5 ), they set ly. a new varsity record for the team Sophomore speedster Amy 


Mark Benning (foreground) and Greg Duncan against the Warriors. The Irish swept the series win­and simultaneously boosted the Studer, following in her uppercla~­season record to 4-2, clinching the smen teammates footsteps, took two
(ba1."k!{roU11d) lead a Notre Dame thrust i11to the Mar­ning 9-4 Friday in Milwaukee and 11-2 Saturday i11 
first winning swimming season in
quette zone in action from this weekend's series the ACC. See Ed Domansky's story above. 
see SWIM, page 9 
Saint Mary's history. 






