Moon base -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 71 the indcpcnJent ~tuJent new~paper ~lT\·ing notrl dame and ~ailll nun··~ FRIDAY,JANUARY 20, 1984 

AP Photo
Madame publisher 
Sen. Ernest Hollings ( D-S.C.) greets Nackey editorial criticizing him for "snide remarks." Loeb, publisher ofthe Union Leader, on Wednes­"No," replied the Democraticpresidential hopeful day at a baseball dinner in New Hampshire. Mrs. as be shook herband. Loeb askedHollins ifbe was upset with herfor an 


Shultz optimistic about Soviet talks 
Associated Press Shultz rejected Gromyko's bitter how to resume the Geneva talks, condemnation of U.S. policies in a Shultz said, "It was not in any sense a 
OSLO, Norway -Secretary of speech Wednesday to the 35-nation negotiation or anything approach­State George Shultz, acknowledging disarmament conference in Stock­ing a real discussion of the subject he made no headway in reopening holm as "incorrect and unaccep­
matter as such, but there is no agree­nuclear arms talks with the Soviets, table." The Soviet foreign minister 
ment at this point on how to con­
vowed yesterday the United States denounced the United States as the duct those talks."
would maintain its "willpower and main threat to peace in the world. 
He said he and Gromykoself-confidence" while seeking new Shultz assailed the Soviets as "discussed many different aspects ofopportunities for negotiation. promoting unrest in Central arms control, and insofar as the two
Shultz said he had "nothing America by sipping arms to positive to report" after his five-hour revolutionary forces there: 
talks covering nuclear issues are meeting in Stockholm on Wednes­"Nicaragua has become a place from 
concerned, I have nothing positive day with Soviet Foreign Minister which there is an effort being made 
to report to you." Andrei Gromyko on breaking the to export subversion. Through the 
NATO sources in Stockholm, who deadlock in the negotiations. flow of armaments that originate in 
spoke on the condition they not be But he also indicated the Soviets the Soviet Union or in allies of the 
identified, said one possible policy may be preparing to reopen talks Soviet Union and flowing through 
shift for Gromyko involved combin­limiting conventional forces in Cuba .. .the influence ofthat system 
ing and renaming the two presently Europe. The talks, suspended a has arisen." month ago, "are in a somewhat dif­The Soviets suspended arms talks suspended nuclear weapons talks. ferent category for the Soviets." in Geneva in late November to But the Soviets have not made up The talks, called Mutual and protest NATO's deployment of new their minds on the continuation of Balanced Force Reductions, focus U.S-built Pershing 2 missiles in West the talks, the sources said. on the troops stationed in Europe by Germany and cruise missiles in The sources said the indications NATO and the Warsaw Pact. In Britain. Last month, parallel talks to came in meetings Gromyko held Stockholm, Foreign Minister Len­cut back long-range weapons also Wednesday with Shultz and West nart Bodstrom said they might begin stalled. German Foreign Minister Hans­by March. Asked about their discussions on Dietrich Genscher. 

Endowment chief shuns quotas 
Associated Press Thomas. "What we want is for them to make The EEOC, set up by Congress in an effort." 
WASHINGTON-William). Ben­I964 to erase job discrimination, The National Endowment for the nett. head of the National Endow­seeks voluntary compliance or, if Humanities is an independent ment for the Humanities, is refusing necessary, court action to enforce federal agency with a SI40 million in the name of"human equality and civil rights statutes. But it has no budget. It awards tax-paid grants and equal liberty" to set numerical goals power to sue or impose sanctions on fellowships to underwrite scholarly required by the Equal Employment any federal agency that refuses to and educational projects. Opportunity Commission for hiring comply with its regulations. Bennett said he was inspired by women and minorities. Thomas was unavailable for com­Attorney General William French 
"Under its current leadership, this ment on the letter. Smith, who wrote the EEOC last July agency will neither favor nor slight Douglas Bielan, who supervises that the Justice Department would anyone because of race, color, na­EEOC efforts by II0 U.S. agencies as rely on recruiting -but not quotas tional origin. religion or gender," head of public sector programs, said -to increase the number ofwomen Bennett. an appointee of President his agency requires no quotas. and minorities on its payroll. Reagan, said in a letter sent Monday "We're talking flexible goals to be to EEOC chairman Clarence set, targets to try and reach," he said. see EEOC, page.4 

Reagan lifts 1981 ~Polish sanctions 
Associated Press The Polish govcrnment. which 
held 6,000 political prisoners after 
WASHINGTON-Rcsponding to imposing martial law. says the num­an appeal from Nobel Prize-winncr ber detained now totals about 200. Lcch Walcsa. Presidcnt Reagan has Romberg could not say how many lifted more of the sanctions he were released or still are in custody. imposed against Poland in 19H I. Reagan ordered sanctions against even though the military govern­Poland just days after martial law ment has not met all his conditions was imposed Dec. I:\. 19H I. and a for doing so, officials said Thursday. ban was imposed on Solidarity. 
Reagan will allow thc Polish which had heen leading a move government airline LOT to resume, toward greater democracy. landing charter flights in the l'nited At the time Reagan said tht· States. and Polish fishermen to tlsh in Soviets had to shouldt·r a major 
U.S. waters again. Some otht·r l·.s. share ofthe blame for devdopments sanctions imposed after Polish au· in Poland. saying events there were thorities declared martial law in "precipitated by public and secret 19H I remain in effect. pressure from the Soviet l 'nion." 
State Department spokesman Alan A gradual lifting of the sanctions Rombcrg said an appeal last month began late last year even though not by Waksa,leader ofPoland's banned all qf Reagan's conditions had been Solidarity trade union, weighed met. Among the conditions were an heavily in the decision. and other end to martial law. rdeasing factors were the reiease of the "vast detainees and reopening "a genuine majority" of Polish political dialoguc with Solidarity. led by Lech prisoners and the successful Polish Walcsa." visit of Pope John Paul II last year. Martial law technically has been 
Romberg said Poland sought li.S, lifted and most detainees released. landing rights for H8 charter flights a But U.S. officials say they have year, "and that is the number that ahandoncd hope that the govern­they have been granted." He said he ment of Gen. Wojciech Jaruzdski did not know the purposc of the will rcopen talks with Waksa or lift flights. the ban on Solidarity. 
Romberg said the prccise fishing On Nov. 2. Reagan lifted the sanc­quota for Polish fishermen in I984 tion against rescheduling talks for would be decided later. Poland's official debts and allowed 
"Very scrious human rights the Poles to enter fishing quota prohlems" still exist in Poland. hc negotiations for 19H5. said, and Reagan's easing of sanc­Romherg said among the human tions was part of a stcp-by-stcp ap­rights prohlems remaining in Poland proach aimed at improving is the forthcoming trial of I I conditions for thc Polish people. Solidarity union and other activists. 
Chemistry professor gets Nieuwland Chair 
Special to The Observer understanding of the properties of a 
variety ofsmall and large molecules, 
Dr. J. Kerry Thomas, a professor of Castellino said. chemistry at Notre Dame who A native ofWalcs, Thomas su.idied developed important tcchniqu~:s for chemistry and radiation chemistry the study of physical chemistry, has at the llnivcrsity of Manchester, been appointed to the Nieuwland England, where he reccived B.Sc., Chair in Science. Ph.D. and D.Sc. degrees. From 1957­
Dr. Francis ). Castcllino, dcan of 58 he was a postdoctoral fellow at thc College of Sciencc, said, "In the National Rescarch Council in Ot­sdecting Dr. Thomas as the tawa, Canada, and latc::r conducted recipient of the first Nicuwland research on radiation induced Chair in Science, we arc rccognizing surface graft-polymcrization in Har­the very productive career ofan out­well, England. standing scicntist." From 1960-70 Thoma~ was a re­
Thomas has contributcd "in an searcher at the Argonne National imaginative and creative fashion" to Laboratory where hc developed the developing and employing vcry short-pulsed nanosecond laser 
rapid laser photochemical and photolysis and pulse radiolysis tech­photophysical measurements to the niques now widely used in physical 

chemistry research. He used his own techniques to study the fundamental chemical processes induct:d by radiation. 
Thomas joined the Notre Dame faculty in I970, spccializing in physical and radiation cht:mistry. Hc received the rt:search award of thc Radiation Research Society in 1974. and in I975 was a Gast Professor at the Hahn Meitner Institute in Bcrlin. He is a member of several profcs­sional socicties and has written ovcr 200 research papers and review ar­ticles. 
The Nieuwland Chair in Science is a ncw, fully endowed chair crcatcd by the Univcrsity to memorialize 
Father Julius Nieuwland a Notre Dr.]. Kerry Thomas Dame chemist who first devdoped a synthetic rubber in 193I. 
The Observer Friday, January 20, 1984 -page 2 
' 


In Brie£ 
Taxpayers in Indiana who fail to report interest. dividend~ and patronage dividends received after Ike. 31, 1983 may be subject to 20 percent withholding. According to the Internal Ht·wnut· Service, "backup withholding" is the ncw requircmcnt t·nat·ted by Congress whkh directs financial institutions to deduct .20 percent of intt:rest and dividend payments due certain in­dividual~. The .20 percent withholding can be triggcred on intcrcst and dividends bv four situations. One situation is when payees refuse to providt· thl'i.r correct taxpayer identification number (usually their social ~ecuritv number) to banks, brokers and other payers who arc required t;, tile intiJrmation returns. Withholding can also be startt·d if the taxpayer identification number provided to the IRS is incorrect. A third situation that can trigger withholding is whcn people have been identified as failing to include all reportable inrer­est. dividends and patronage dividends on their tax returns. The last situation that triggers withholding is when a payee fails to certifY undn pt·naltit·s of perjury. that he or sht· is not subject to backup withholding. -The Obsen•er 
Professor Keith J. Egan, chairman of the 
lkligious Studies Department at Saint Mary's. is the first recipient of the J>dwn Fl'llowship from the Sacred Heart School of Theology in llalt·s ( :orners. \X' i~. Tht· S2 "i,OOO fellowship honors Leo Dehon. l<lllndt-r of the l'riesb ami Brothers ofthe Sacrt·d Heart ofJesus. and a prophetic voice in. the ninctecmh century tilr Christian service to the poor ami oppressed. The ti:llow~hip. which will he awarded an­nuallv, is intended to keep alive tht· memory of Dchon. a foundcr of the ~harismatic movement and social-minded priest. Egan, who joined the Saint Mary's faculty in August 19H5. will hold the Dchon Fl'llow~hip from January 16. ll)H..j, until August 14, 19H4. During that time he will do rt·search and writing on the symbolism of the heart in Christianity and on tht· recovery of devotion in Christian lift-. t:gan also ~t·rvcs as adjunct professor of theology at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. -7he Ohsen•er 
A fourth regional devl'lopment office will be opened by the 1'nivnsity later this month in West Palm Beach. Ha. Cathleen Clinton, a regional din-ctor of devl'lopmcnt who has been residing in South lknd. will head the new otlke and continue to administer the Notre Dame's development program in a 15-state area in the Southeast. South and Southwest. as well as the District of Columbia. Notre Dame also has regional devl'lopmcnt offices in New York City. <:hicago and l.o~ Angl'les. The incrt·asing number of Notre Dame 
alumni and friend~ in the region ncn·ssitated the new office, accord­ing to Dr. William Sexton, vice prt·sident tilr public relations, alumni affairs and dnTiopmt·nt. -The Ohserl'er 
The Siberian Express brought anothtT day of rt-cord ~ubzno cold to much oftht· nation as far south as Texas while a doubk-harrl'lnl storm that unloadnl up to nine inches of snow took a rarting shot at the Northeast. Tt·n deaths art· blamed on the rt-ct·nt bad weather. -AP 
·Of Interest 
An hour-long vigil will be hl'ld in front of the Women's Pavilion. a South Bend abortion clinic. on Monday from noon until 1 p.m. Monday is the eleventh annin·rsary ofthc Supreme Court's decision to kgalizc abortion. and Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Hight to l.iti: will have shuttlc bus service leaving the main drclc at 
12:1 c; and 12:.~0 p.m. The hus will rt·turn to campus by I: I 0. llot drinks will be served at the site. Eighty studt·nts will he taking two fi.1ll davs from school to attend the annual march in Washington D.C. The tr.ip is sponsored by the St. Joscrh County Hight to Uti:. -The Obsert•er 
Tetnporary parking spaces in limited n~mhcr 
an: available to st·niors in Morrissey, lloward, Pangborn and hshcr in tht· D-6 parking lot. Only seniors who presently have cars rcgis­tnnl in their names arc digihle and should sign up with their hall pn·sidt·nt by (> p.m. Sunday. Jan. 22. A lottery will he hdd to dctnmirH· who will receive the temrorary parking span·s, which will bt· valid through Q!'ril 19. Any questions should he directed to Stutknt St·nator Hob Bertino at 2H.~-I OHH. or your hall prcs1tknt. ­
1be Ohsen•er 

Weather 
Very cold and partly cioudv today and tomorrow. with the high both days around 10 above zero. The low tomght rs cxrt·ctnl to he around c; bdow. -AP 


Notre Dame women struggle within the status quo 
As the class of'H7 marches into their second semester 
of college, future members of the class of '88 anxiously 
await thick letters from Notre Dame. 
Seventy percent of those receiving letters of accep· 
tance will be men; only 30 percent will be women. 
An administration-imposed ceiling on women's ad­
missions allots -;oo places in the class of'88 to women and I 2<;0 spots to men. As one might guess, this makes it more difficult for women to gain entrance to the Uni­versity. 
But contrary to some rumors, the average Notre Dame women is not considerably more qualified for college than her male counterpart. According to Pat Leonardo, assistant director of admissions, there is al­most no disparity between the average SAT scores of successful male candidates and successful female can­didates. The average woman admitted will be in the top 3-4 percent of her high school class, while thc average man will he in the top "i-8 percent ofhis class. 
Because nearly twice as many men as women apply in a typical year, compcti­tion for women's admisssion is not as fierce as the 70:30 expansion ofcurrent buildings. 

Even if undergraduate enrollment remains un­changed, a change in the male/female ratio will cause housing difficulties. 
The most obvious solution is to convert one of the men's dorms into a women's dorm. But according to Sister Miriam Jones, assistant provost, this was tried in the t1rst years of coeducation with less than promising results. "The men felt they were being replaced in thdr dorms as well as in the classroom," she said. 
Another possible solution 
is to encourage more pc<~ple 
to move off campus, but the 
ratio would suggest. Still, the admissions process is "more competitive for girls and we can he a little more selective," said Leonardo. 
If the ceiling on women's admissions were eliminated Leonardo estimates the male/female ratio would shift approximately 8 pcr­cent. 
Federal law states that schools must admit students on quality alone, without 
regard to sex. Private 
schools, however, arc ex­
cmpted from this law. 
Therefore, there is no legal inequity inherent in the currcnt limit on woman's admissions. Still, it seems only fair that women be given the same opportunity for ad­mission as men. 
Unfortunately, lifting the ceiling on women's admis­sion is a bit more complicatcd than changing the addresses on a few thick envelopes. In order for more women to he admitted, either the total number of un­dergraduates must increase or the number of men ad-· mitted decrease. Both of these options lead to problems. 
The PACE report, compiled hy the provost last year to give suggestions for improving the Notre Dame com­munity, recommends undergraduate enrollment be maintained at 7,500. Considering the present lack of classroom space and crowding in the dining halls, dorms, and other facilities, an increase in under­graduate enrollment is out of the question without an 

';'oday's issue ofThe Observer was produced hy: 
Composition Editor. ...... Tom & Suzannl' Lll)'tllit Staff. .................. Su<·. Paul. & lloh TyfJesL~ttL•rs . ................ Tracy. Vic. & Kevin Nt!ll'S Editor ............................. Mary & Dan Copr Editor. ............................. Dan & Mary Sports CofJ)' Editor. ....................Jeff Blumh Viett'{}()illt Lli)'Oitl...... ........... Keith Picher Features Cop)' Editor........ ...... Pctt.· Ciotta Features Lt~J·out ................... Mal")' & Sarah .vn Dll)' Editor ......................... Davr Grore .4tl DesiJ~n ..................... ................. Boh Slora Pboto}lrttf>ht•r... ....... Paul Cifardli 
The Obeerver (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Obeerver IS published by I he students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Obeerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The ObMrver IS a member of The ANOCI8ted Preu. All reproduction nghts are reserved 

annual spring hysteria over a threatened housing lot~ery renders this solution i~lef­fective. 
A third possibility is to construct another dorm. If the present demand for housing continues, a new dorm would cut down on cramped conditions in the halls and allow for greater flexibility in admissions. Un­fortunately, new dorms cost money. 
The effect of a shift in 
Notre Dame admissiom 
policy on Saint Miry's must 
also he considered. AI 
though few students apply to both schools, it is possible that an increase in women's admissions at the llniver­sty would induce more women to apply to both schools. 
What is more likely is that a considerable increase in the number of women at Notre Dame would have a negative effect on Saint Mary's social life. "We don't 
want to make Saint Mary's an island. They now are welcome here. We don't want this to change," said Jones. 
The PACE report recommends that "during the academic year of I983/84, the University reevaluate 
the matter of the proportion ot men to women on the undergraduate level ..." According to Jones, no such project is underway. 
PRE-CANA PROGRAMS Marriage preparation is a diocesan requirement across the country 
Pre-Cana Weekends 
Feb. 3-4, Mar. 2-3, Mar. 30-31 
or Host Couple Program 
Inter Faith Instructions 
February 15 and 22 7:30p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
-;J'fiinliinga6ouf 
c:f!rcJL a acJcJLBe ? 

.-ovnr 

Sign up at: Campus Ministry· Badin Office 239-5242 
The Observer Friday,January 20, 1984-page 3 

transplantfrom a child in Kentucky atPittsburgh Children's Hospital. Trine is from Miami and had been waiting for a suitable donor. 

A CALL TO CARE: 
Career Planning for a Social Conscience 
!( Peter Henriot S.J. 
Director of the Center of Concern, Washington, D.C. 
D D DLectureD D D Friday, January 20 8:00 · 1 0:00 pm Library Auditorium 

D D D Career Workshop D D D Sat., Jan. 21, Library Lounge 9:00 ·12:30 Register at the C.S.C. $3 charge covers workshop and lunch 
Open to students, faculty, and staff. Sponsored by C.I.LA and Student Union 

Attention All Juniors Junior Parents Weekend Information 
The deadline for all returns is January 31. 1984. If your parents have not yet mailed in their registration forms please encourage them to do so as soon as possible! 
Also, if your parents have not received a registration form, you may pick them up in the Students' Activities Office in LaFortune. All parents SHOULD have received them before Christmas break. 
Also, if you would like to purchase additional tickets for any event in addition to those ordered by your parents on their registration form, or if you have any questions concerning registration, rlease contact Linda at 2737. 

Ex-astronaut Aldrin sees lunar space station as NASA's top priority 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Buzz Aldrin. who walked on the moon with Neil Armstrong. says hi~ old employer. NASA. is wrong in wanting a space ~tation a~ it~ next major goal. Americans. ht· contt·nd~. should go back to the moon and build a pn· manent base there. 
"The solar sv~tem·~ moM l.k~irabk ~pace ~tation already ha~ si:\. American flag~ on it." he ~aid in an intervil·w. "That's the moon. Let's usc it and not turn it over to !(>reign pioneering fronticr~mcn." 
Aldrin and several individuals and 
aerospace group' arc trying to drum 
up support l(>r a lunar base a~ the 
White House nears a decision on an 
expanded national space policy for 
thi~ century. Some arc supporting a 
letter-writing campaign to President 
Reagan. 
The president may announce the new policy in his State of the llnion mc~sagc Jan. 2';. Details would t(>l­low in hi~ propo~cd tl~ctl I <JH'; hudgct to he presented Feb. I. 
There b sharp division within the .tdministration on what course America should take in space. But there are indication~ Reagan will strong!\· endorse an orbiting station. which f(>r years has been till' No. 1 priority of the National Aeronautcs and Space Administration. 
NASA officials. noting Reagan's recent call f(>r a "grander vision" in space, said he also may support start­up money latn in this decade f(>r a scicntitlc station program t(>r a manned trip to Mars. 
Preliminary I 'JH'; ~pending project Director David Stockman said the admininistration wants to 
add S6 billion to :"JASA'~ budget o\'l'r the next five year~. That's a huge in­crca~e f(>r an agcnn· that has seen lean year~ and about tht· right tlgure ti>r space station development. 
lkagan wants to "recapture the vi­~ion of Apollo" and seeks the be~t way to do that. said Reagan's science adviser (;corgc Kt·vworth. 
The president hinted at his direc­tion in a speech last October on :'\iASA's 2';th anniversarv. He chal­lcngnl the agcnn· to develop more \'bionarv long-term goals instead of just f(>cusing o.n winning approval of a permanent manned ~pace station. 
"\\'c're not just conlTrncu about the next logical step in span·." 1\.·agan said. "\\'c'rc planning an entire road. a 'high road' if you will, that will provide us a vision of limit­le~s hope and opportunity." 
The president has been in­tlut·nccd con~iderably by Keyworth. who ~aid la~t September that NASA had not been imaginative enough in its long-range planning. lk said the agency should he thinking beyond a space station -on how to use such a platform to return humans to the moon and then on to ,'\Iars. 
Since then agent·y thinkl'f~ have 
heeti working on ju~t such a plan. 
hut thev have kept details under 
wraps. 
Aldrin and other~ have ~t·iznl upon the president's challenge to urgt· a moon hasl'. Some. like Aldrin and <icorgc E. :'lluellcr, who headed NASA's manned spacecraft eft(>rt during the Apollo moon program. and .James :\luncy. prc~idcnt ofl'sing Space f(>r America. want to skip the station a~ the next goal and go directly to the moon. 

-------~---~-----------------.
J coupoN~1 UE PACKA~ 1 : $6.00 ~ Appetizer. Quesadilla l : ~ Entree: Ground Beef, Burrito or l 1 Chimichanga 1Dessert Churros or Ice Cream : 
I Sun.-Thu,rs. 

1 Olter vaHO unttl feti 29, 1984. Not good inconjunchon wtth an¥ other spectalsor coupon. I 
~--------------------------------' 
----~-~-----------------, 
1couPON ~t.OE PACKAGE #2 : :$6..00 ~ . Appetizer: Chiii _: 
: ~Entree: Gr. Beef Wet Burrito or Two Beef : 1 Sun.-Thurs. Tacos Dessert: Churros or lee Cream I
J________________________________J
I OffervOltd unlit Feb 29, 1984 Not good tn conjunctton wirtl anyother spectolsorcoupon. I 
l~--·-·--~-----------------------------....... . 
The Observer Friday, january 20, 1984-page 4 
Beirut mourns slain university president 
Associated Pres-' 
111'1 Rl T. I.ehanon -Schoob and college~ clo~nl in a rare display of ,\lo~km-Christian unity yesterday and gun~ around Beirut wne siknt as the dty mournnl tlw ~lain prt·si­dent of the American I 'niver~ity ot Beirut. 
Polin· said iniTSt igators had worked up a compo~itt· skl'lch of otH' of two men who gunned down :VIalcolm Kerr on the campu~ \X'ed· nt·sd.tl. hut ~ourtt·~ ~aid tht· killers lud not been identitinl. 
In the rt·gion north of Tripoli. oc­cupinl h) Syria. polin· reported li>ur pt·opk killl·d and I 1 woundnl in daslws hc!WtTn lm·al militias. 
Police ~aid the t1ghting was ht·· tWtTn the pro·Syrian Arabian Red Knight~ militia and ti>rtTs of the Na· tiona! Syrian Socialist Party, which advocates l.t·hanon·~ inclusion in a "( ;reatt·r Syria" hut opposes t ht· 
gon-rn mt·nt of Syrian Prt·sidcnt llakz t\s~ad. 
In lsrad·m·ntpinl south Lebanon. auackers tired with machine gun~ on an bradi patrol in Sidon's port art·a. There 1\Tre no t·a~ualties. 
1\lilitarv jeb roared owr Beirut several times during the day. hut it was quil'l compart·d to recent ar· tilkry hauks. 
School~ and collcgt·s closnl down atier pit'as from< :hristian. Druse ami Sunni and Shiitt· ,\1oslem leatkrs who ~ought to commt·moratt· tht· tkath of 1-.:nr. a 'i2-yt·ar-old lkirut· horn t\mt·rit'an. 
Donald lhumtdd. the I'.S. Middk Fast envoi'. flt·\\ from Beirut to f{omt· and met immnliatdy with Pre min Bellino Craxi, I'.S. l'mhassy otlkiab in Rome said. ! k also planned to rnn·t with the tim:ign and ddi:nse ministers. hut no dl'laib 

of the llltTting~ \\Trt' disclosnl. 
Troops from Italy. tht· llnited States. France and Britain comprist· till' multinational ti>rtT in the lkirut area. 
Knr's dutit·~ wert· a~sumnl by Samir Thabet. school l'itT president li>r academk affair~. 
tbknl ahout stTurity at till' I2H· \Tar-old ~dwol. ht· ~aid: "It's a VtT)' dehawhle issue wht·tht·r stTuritl' can provide you with all the security l'<llt want atier all. \\'t· an· a univt·r· sity. we are not a jail or a prhon lwre." 
\X'ith da~M-~ ~uspendnl until ,1\lontlay. the t·ampus was quiet. Tlw fn, ~tudt·nb in tht· arct huddlnl 111 group~ talking quit'tly. 
An t\rah prol(:~~or at the univn­sity. who asked not to he idcntitlnl. said li.S. bculty nwmlwrs "arc living 
• • .EEOC 

mntinuedfrom paxe I 
"In ~pitt· of the Ill'~! illlt'tllions to tht· nllllrarl'... Smith wrott·. numtTi· t·al hiring goab rt·quircd by the 
1-:FO<. "olkn htTomt·. in fact. quotas. h1 operating to gin· prdi.n·ntT in tht· hiring process to applicants hecau~t· of race, st·x. religion or handit"ap." 
"That is d i~t-rim ination. and that i~ wrong." Smith ~aid. 
Till' Ju~tkT lkpartrnt·nt's plan was rt·jn:tnl hy Thoinas in St·ptcrn· ht·r ht·crust· it lacked numerical goals or timetahlrs t(Jr tt·sting rt·sults. Tht· FEOC says it is Mill negotiating ti>r a satisfal'lory plan. 
lknnell ~aid. "To hdievc in human equality ami equal liht'rtl can mem nothing k~s than to treat white and hlacJ... mak and female. k\v and (;t·nt.ik a~ ntf)rally t·qual Wr strongly hdien·.!hat dilf"ncnt or ~~~dal trt·atmt·nt '1\ this agency on tht: h;~sis of thest• charal'tetisrics llf··
,, 

ll-~s our hest principle~ ;rs a na· tioll" 
lk said Thur~day he •hdkvett' 


in ft:ar that somebody is going 10 
hlow them up." 

"Take a look at the faculty apart· me!lls -they're barricaded." ht· said. "They are like the Marines." He was referring to the heavily guardt"d and barricaded base for tht' l'.S. Marine contingent of tht· mult ina­tiona! li>rce. 
lie ~aid Knr rt·cdved threats 
against his lik: "Tht' last time I spoke 
with him about one of threats, he 
laughed it oil" 

An anonymou~ telephone caller clainlt'd a pro-Iranian group, Islamic lloly \\ar. carried out the slaying. Similar calls claiming 10 represent the group were placed aftt·r several other attacks, including the Oct. 2:-\ suicide truck-homhings of the li.S. and French bases in Beirut. Officials, howevt-r, have hecn unable 10 t1nd Argentine tennis star Guillermo Vilas is shown Notre Dame ACC last night. Vilas has been any other evidence of the group's abol'e meeting uAth the press at the South Bend accused ofaccepting 160,000 to enter a tounw­existence. Marriott p1·ior to cballenging]obnMcEnroeat the ment. 
Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 
277-1875 
Men: Regularly $14.95, Special Pric:e $10• Women: Regularly $20, Special Pric:e $15 • 
•with coupon for Notre Dame students only 
Co-Designers Only: Men $7 Women $10 

Buy any Rossignol 
RC 70, Elan 904 
Kniessel FM, K 
344 RA, OR I 
Olin 930, SR 15 
. ,~ 
and for 1 ¢you 
will receive a 
PAIR of 
Salomon 326 
bindings. 
(Quantities 
and Sizes limit 


SALE STARTS THURSD 

IN ARMY NURSING YOU KEEP ADDING NEW SKILLS. 
It's important that you're treated with the dignity and respect accorded an Army officer. And it's important to work in a modern medical center, earn a top salary, and travel. But perhaps the most important aspect of Army Nursing is the dedication to education. In Army Nursing you have the oppor~unity to attend professional conferences, pursue advanced degrees and study a variety of nursing specialties. 
If you're a student working on your BSN or if you already have a BSN and are registere.d te practice ill the United Stat.es or Puerto Rico, look into Army Nursing. Stop by or call us: 
SGTCiawson 
(219) 872-8635 (Call Collect) 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. "-· · -.·BEALL YOU" CAN BE:" 




JUST OPENED!!! 
A Sportswear store geared for 
N.D. -S.M.C. Students 

TRADE-IN ALLOWANCE! 
BRING US YOUR OLD ATHLETIC SHOE AND WE'LL GIVE YOU A •6 TRADE-IN ALLOWANCE ON ANY NEW PAIR SHOES WE HAVE IN STOCK 
JANUARY ONLY 
LIMIT 1 USED PAIR FOR ONE NEW 
We carry a full line of Notre Dame & SMC sportswear. Stop in and see our new, truly unique line of N.D.· S.M.C. clothing. 


The Observer Friday, january 20, 1984-page 5 
Coal industry hails plant closing 
~ 
Francois Truffaut's Small Chang~ (1976) Friday January 20 
7:30 and 9:30pm Individual admission $2.50 Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum, Notre Dame Sponsored by the Department of Communication and Theatre 

JOHN MARSHALL 
LAW SCHOOL 
1393 Peachtree st., N.E., Atlanta GA 30309 
APPLICATIONS NOW TAKEN 
February, June, September admissions 
Day or Evening Classes 

John Marshall Law School admits without regard to national or ethnic origin. 
APPROVED FOR VETERANS 

Graduation from John Marshall meets the requirements for admission to the Bar Examination in Georgia and Indiana 
only. 
(404) 872-3593 

................................. 
Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet Startingjanuary lith 
Every Wednesday it's Mama Marriott's Italian Buffet in the Looking Glass. Restaurant. A "huon gusJo" array of antipasta, minestrone, fettucine, caxiatore, lasagne, pasta with four saures, cheese, breads and desserts. It's all served up in a festive Italian atmosphere-checkered table cloths, astrolling musidan, -the works. 
Every Wednesday 
5:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. All you au1 eat for 19.50. Children under 12 S4.75. 
$1.00 Off 
.Ezn adult's Wemelday night Mama Marriott Italian 8uflet ~· One. coupon per tal* only.
.-. 984 
-otror~J;r~.•~ H
soUTh"~ ,,, 
.,. It 
123 N. St )lseph sl:..~)"qd,~219) 234-m> .. 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Public Service Indiana's abandonment of the Marble Hill nuclear plant "was a tremendous impact" for the coal in­dustry, United Mine Workers presi· dent Richard L Trumka said yesterday. 
Trumka said the Marble Hill case 
proves what miners have been 
saying for years, namely, that 
nuclear power can't compete with 
coal-fired plants. 
"We can build in Indiana a coal-
SENIORS 
fired power plant with every en­
vironmental control available 10 it 
and will burn coal cleanly for ahout 
sI billion," he said. 
By contrast, the pricetag for 
Marble Hill was in excess of 57 bil­
lion by the company's own es­
timates, he said. 
"Economically, nuclear power ,cannot compete with coal," the miner-la·wyer told reporters. 
Trumka. the leader of the 
2'i0,000-member union. came to In­
diana to visit with state legislators 
and Gov. Robert D. Orr and to make 
I · 
·;.-~I~·r'' 
. ~ 
_ 
FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS ·· ; WILSON COMMONS I .. , , -_~. MONDAY ... .. FROM 
-.,.,:'~;~~~.:;~ANUARY 23-,1984 .... , ,~;OOpm TO 7:30pm. 
J!oo' _!Ut.li.<K• ·fi-':--...,.• .• ' ...: J .' .... ·~~~·:·.i;.: ; . ~-·
'II 

•. . ·y~: ---•· •·t:~n\~ t,._ ''J...:<-l 
:-•;;~:': ;!~-~-~; .·With a Stress Management W~_:shop. You Can Win!_! ., ·,; 11 · · · ·l ,. !·--·14[;· t. ~ · ~ ·.. '\li-=-;~.. f~,J ~ .~ ·-~F . 
',...


..' 

.~ ..... •. ~ 
known the llMW's position on add rain legislation and to thank them for promoting coal in the state. 
Trumka was scheduled to meet with Orr Thursday afternoon and he anticipated a congenial session witp the Republican governor. 
The union opposes a hill pending 
n Congress which would require a 
12 million-ton reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions. a move which Trumka said would cost the jobs of 60,000 miners and 180,000 jobs in mining support industries. 
.. 
r---------------------------------------,Who's going to Win? 1
1 Tug of War 
I STRESS MANAGEMENT I 
1 FOR Graduate Students I 1 *Are you wondering how to get geared up for the coming semester and enjoy 
I 1 yourself too? 1 1 *Are you interested in how to relax? When is a good time to relax? 1 1 *Do you want to know why you feel the stress? Why you burn-out from 1
I

I time to time? I I Are you interested in establishing your priorities? Values? What is important I I ~~~ I 1 *Are you interested in managing your time better? I 1 *Are you interested in managing your guilt and enjoying yourself and your time? I 1 If you answered yes to any of these questions, our program may be helpful to I I you. In cooperation with the Graduate Student Union, the Counseling and I
I I
Psychological Services Center is offering a: 
I II STRESS MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP ... ,. AT I _.,­


DEAI>liNf FOR APPliCANTS=FEBRUAR.Y3, /flY 
for ~nforMct'ott, Cortf;.ct.~, Au. Boe.mu at fh~ Cc~tfa.-for Soc.·aJ Concerns (5"2'1J) 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
~i~~~~()__J_._Il__t__________________
Fr-ida-y,_Ja-nu-acy_z_o._I9-84--p-age-·6 
Student Affairs pizza solution shows promise 
Three cheers for the Office of Student 

Affairs. 
After threatening to outlaw pizza and otht-r non-pat·kaged foods from dorm sales, the office decided to hack off. 
Perhaps student outrage: from a usually dormant campus madt: Father John Van Wolvkar change his mind. Perhaps he .md the llniversity wen: tired of the: publicity. Or mayllt.' he never really in­tt·mkd to fi1rhid pizza salt:s in the first place. 
Whatever the case, food sales were 
shut down during finals wec:k -when 
students had other things on their minds 
and after The Obsen1er had stopped 
publishing. Since: then ahout half have 
reopened aftt:r passing a second inspec­
tion. 

lnstt:ad of ending food sales, Student Affairs has decided to give the managt:rs another chance. Michac:l McCauslin, a specialist in tht: University's Environmen­tal Health and Safety department, has 
drawn up a set of guiddines for all food sales operators. 
McCauslin sounds optimistic about the future and apologt:tic about the past. He nott:s that these are tht: first guiddines issut:d to food saks managers, and that he: didn't think "this prohlem had been recognized as a problem" prt:viously. 
Already having st:en marked improvt:­ments, McCauslin says ht: is "more than willing" to help food sales managers with any problems concerning health and 
safety. Such talk is encouraging, especial­ly after the many threats the University has hurled at Notre Dame students this year. 
The action of Student Affairs is good news in January, but it would have been great news in early December. Let's hope the University shows the same com­mon sense and openness is resolving stu­dent concerns in the future. 
-The Observer 

Did anyone notice that Mrs. Goodman is white?: 
Tht· t·alkr "aid we hatl mel once at a party anti thnt· was somt·thing he wanll'U 10 dis­cuss. I k hatl hc:t·n reading l'Vc:rything there wa' to rl·atl ahout 1.1. Rohnl 0. (;ootlman. Jr., the navy llkr, anti he had St'l'n all thnc: was 10 "l'l' about him on tdt·vision. What he wantc:tl 
Richard Cohen 
The Cohen column 

to know wa" thb: llow comt· no one n!l'n· tioned that his wift-i" whitt·? 
Now thl· truth i" that I had hlTn womkring ahmu that my"t·lf. But whl·n the calkr broachnl the suhjl'l'l, my inclination was 10 shout "So what'" ami slam th(' phonl· down on him as an olwious hi got. I'm glad I diu noI. The t·alkr lllrnl·d out to hl· black. And his wife is whill'. 
So we talked. I c:xplaim·d to him that most rll'wspapt-r" adhl·n· to the gl·rmanl·nes" rule. And sinlT it is not really germanl· -nll'rdy inllTl'"ting -that Terry Lynn (;ootlman is white it mostly wt·nt llllllll'nlionl·d. We arl· now ;u "'Hlll' mitlpoinl. pa.'t whl·n· race gets mentioned in some pejorative or tlefinitiw sense -a~ if it is all you nc:etl to know about a pl·rson -and not quite to where il can be mc:ntionc:tl at all. As for tc:kvision, it had no need to comment. It mc:rdy nc:c:tletl to show. 
Nc:vc:rthdc:ss, the fact remains that Terry Lynn Goodman hc:camc: the Invisible: Woman of the entire (;ootlman episode. Both among hlacks anti whites, her race was a topic ofcon· vc:rsation. After all, illlc:rracial marriages are hardly commonplace. 
For whites, they go to the core of race prc:jutlicc:, miscegenation and all ofthat. It was not too long ago. after all, that a hlack man could be lynched li1r merely winking at a white woman. 
As for hlacks, they arc not indifferent to in­ll·rmarriagc: either. My caller toltl me that the hlacks on his staff were furious at Goodman for marrying a white woman. And a hlack woman friend said she had heard the same thing, coupled with denunciations of Mrs. 6oodman as "white trash." Lots of hlack women fed there is shortage enough of c:ligihk hlack men without some of them marrying out of their race. 
When it comes to tlc:nial ofthc ohvious, the Goodman saga was a tour de force. It is ap· parent that race, like sex in the Victorian era, has hecome the great unmentionable. Lots of people notice it, hut few want to puhlicly come 10 grips with it, pretending that not mc:lllioning it shows utopian ·enlightenmnt and merely mentioning it shows prejudice. 
But the subject is not without interest. not without consc:qucnce. Anti the way Mrs. Goodman was handlcd is illustrative of the way the whole issue of race was treated when it came to the Goodman saga. Although some mentioned race as a way of criticizing Jesse Jackson (Would he have tlone the samc for a white?), few paused to cc:kbratt: the occasion for tht: samt: reason. 
To start with Goodman himself, he is a second gcnt:ration military officer -until rc:cc:mly, an unheard of phenomenon for blacks. Not only that, hut he is an officer in the Navy, the branch of the service that tradition­ally was the most hostile to hlacks. 
But Goodman is only half the story. Tht: otht:r half is, ofcourse, Jackson. llt:rt: is somt:­thing new under the sun -a mt:aningful hlack presitlentialcandidatc:. llntiltht: Voting Rights Act, Jackson would have been a mt:re 
) 

curiosity. Blacks were largely unregistt:red, few could vote, anti no black candidate could have hatl any chance of either gaining the nomination or, at lcast, influencing the con­vention. 
The point is that race was a theme in the c:ntirt: Goodman c:pisotlc:, and tht: failure to ac­knowletlgt: the obvious was an epic exercise in historic amnesia But when it came to Mrs. Goodman, the failure was more per~onal. Ignoring her ract: once she ht:rsdf chose to surfdct: tentlt:tl to dt:prive her of her in· dividuality. 
She remained an abstraction and if, as some said, the doqut:nce and poise of Goodman's part:nts showed hlacks to advantage, then the refusal to tleal with her failed to do the same for ht:r. 
Instead, sht: was shrouded in mystery, as if there was somt·thing shameful ht:re. She wa~ made an t:xotic when she is merely a woman. The Goodman epiSlJtlt: proves two things: When it comes to race, we havt: come a long way. And when it comes to race, wt: still ha~ a long way to go. 
( t:) 19lH. Tbe w:usbinxton Post 
High school polemics: Gary, say it ain't so 
Gary• Ginsbt·~. m1 old b(~b-school friend. is a .~enior bistorr major at Rmwn Unit•ersit)' ami 11UIIUIMit1M editor of Tht· Brown Daily 
lkralll lie is intt'llixent amlll'e/1-informed. hut tl'ill still talk to me. 
.. And if it faib onn·? \\'hal then< ;ary~ I gul·ss I lal·k your long·tl·rm faith." "II dol·sn't takl· faith. that's just the way it is 
Michael L. Brennan 
And so it goes 

-tht·rl·'s no viahk ahl·rnatin·s. lksitlc:s, his­lory has prown that dc:tarl'llt'l' works. But if you walll to know what I n·ally think -in thl· long run, it's inl'Vitabk." 
"lnl'\'itahk?' You'n· a t:ualistk ddi:atist!" 

"Your multisyllahic "lantll·r tloc:sn'l hurl. Thl· l:tns an· thal·. Mil:hal'l -man goes 10 war. and knowlnlgl· can't bl· destro)Td, so l·n·ntually, Sllmeonl' like Qaddafi is gonna get a bomh. and thl·n we're all in trouhk. Or how about South Afrka's homh and thl· pending civil war'" 
"(;inz, spare llll' your optimism." 
"Unlike you, I'm a rt·alist. Our latt•'s bn·n seakd since I')4S, and you'rc: naive if you think otherwise. What's your answer? Some kintl ofworld govc:rnmelll or something?" 

"Mayhc:. If I hatl a quick solution, I'd run for (;od, hut the position, to the ht:sl of my knowledge. isn't vacant yl·t. For now, I think we nt'l'd some imc:rnationalism. each of us nn·ds Slime kind of gohal consciousness, or mayhc: we have to purge hate anti fear from our hearts. That sounded gooey. I don't know." 
"That's thl· prohlc:m, nohotly knows." 
"Mayhc: what we need is a common enemy to unify us all, like an attack on our big hluc: marhlc: by Marlains. That would do the trick." 
"(;real grounds for optimism." "IIow 'hout the Sn:ontl Coming?" "Brennan, you Catholics have got it all 
wrong-it would he the First Coming" "Lt:t's not start that argument again ..... . "Anyway. thl-rl·'s heen a quamum k-ap in 
the dl·structiw powl·r of weapons, and no simultannllls leap in human understanding to ao:ommodatc: them. Nothing's really changed sintT Auschwitz. Drl·stlc:n and Hiroshima." 
"Except that we can't usc 'not knowing any bc:nc:r' as our c:xcusl·... .. Face it, man is still violent and stupid, so accept that it's inevitablc, and go 1111.'; 
"Hope just flows from your pores. Ginz. if we're all tloomc:d, what's kt:eping you from hedonism?" 
"Accepting nuclear war is no difft:rt:nt from accepting your own death -part of. the human condition. I'm still gonna lead a good life and enjoy it, while you'll probahly bt: misc:rahle worrying about something you have no control ovt:r." 
"What about your kids?" "I'll teach tht:m to accept tht: threat of nuclear annihilation as a fact oflife." 
''I'm not sure which of us is crazier, but I can't just accept it. Tht: way I set: it, we're all rl·sponsiblc for our prest:nt predicament" 
"So educating some Notrt: Dame students ahout nuclear war is gonna save us all, right?" 
"Lay-off Ginz. It's a start. Wt:'re sure not gonna find solutions hy ignoring the problem, and if you still bdievt: in our humble little democracy. you'll agree that voters havt: a responsibility to be wdl-informed. The provc:rhial first step in tht: thousand mile jour­ney." 
"You really arc naive and ignorant. It's too late. Why tlon'l you just put your faith in tech­nology like the rt:st of the masses~" 
"Grt:at. An arms race in spact:, just what we need." 
"O.K., so it's a dumb idea -but you haven't 
prc:sentt:d anything hetter than some vague al­
lusions to changing human naturt:, or outlaw­
ing war. Prt:tty damn likely ..... 
"I'm curst:d. I know too much to simply 
ignore it and go on." 
"Brennan, you've just got to accept the fact 
that nothing you or anyone else can do will 
change the forces ofhistory. Might still makes 
right, there's no t:scaping it, it's just a matter of 
timt:." 
"Maybe wt: can takt: the steps to buy our­
selves some more limt:, and tht:n put our 
crcativt: imaginations togt:ther and find al· 
ternatives to Armageddon." 
"The end will be the samt:." 
"Enough Ginz. You've got an argumt:nt, hut tht: only thing that givt:s mt: a glimmer ofhopt: is working to change tht: insanity and in· evitability ofit all." 
"Go ahead, but you'll just ht: frustrated anti miserable." 
"Nothing will be as hatl as putting up with a year ofunimaginative writers and newscasters making rcfert:nct:s anti drawing analogies to Orwell'sl984. It's gonna be ovt:rkill for sure." 
"Yt:h. Glad I didn't read it, so I can just ignort: it the way I avoid the overkill of nuclear war editorials." 
The Obset:ver Editorial Board Depat1ment Managers 
Editor-in-Chief............................... Davitl Dziedzic 1'. () /lux (!. \ u/rl' /Jill//I'. I.\ /(>55(> (.!I')) .!3CJ· 'i_!03 Managing Editor ....................... Margaret Fosmoe 1Jusiiii'SS .Itti/Ut~er .. .... ......( :hrhtophcr < )\\ t·n 
I hi' ( lhsert'l'l'" thc indqwmll'rll IH'\\ 'paper puhli,.hnl h\ till· 'tudt·m,. of till' I ni­E:xecutit•e Editor................................. Paul McGinn Con/roller ...... .... Ail'x Sti!Ll" HT,.il\ cot :\otrl· t>anw dul..rc .111d "ailll \l.rn ·,<:college II doD nollll'll'""·lril\ rl'fkt·t Neu•s Editor............ ....................Bob Vondt:rhcitle .·ldt'l'rtising .\lc/1/llgl'r .. ........kanil· l'ooll' lhl· polrcit'' of tlw admini,lration of l'ithcr in,ruution. Tlw Ill'\\.,. h rcportcd a" ac· News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Cinulution .lfanllgl'r.. .........\lark .\liotlo nrratch .rnd ·'" ohJl'l'lin·h ·'' po"ihk I n'igrwd nlitoriab rq'fl''l'lll thl' opinon of a Saint Ma~v's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski \)•s/1'11/S .ltmutgl'r.. ... 1\.l·vin \X illiam' majorrt\ of the hluorialllo.lrd. Comllll'lllarin. kllcr'. and thl' ln,.ide Column pn·,l·nt Sports Editor ..............................,-.~ic,\1:!~} §,!)lliX~n ,
1 

I Ill' \ il'\\ 'ofIhdr .rut hor,.. ( .olumn 'P·Ill' j, ,I\ ai l:rhll' to .lllml·mlwr"of 1he communi!'. Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher .rmlthc tnT l'Xprt·,.,.ion of van rng opinion" on cunpu". through ll'tlcr,. h t·ncouragl·tl. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower 
Showcase 

Friday, january 20, 1984-page 7 
The young professional 
Death in the ND family 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 

I.Je is one o fthe YoungUurban .l .lProfessionals whom Time magazine calls Yuppies. He lives in a townhouse, which he can't afford, with a youngwoman who shares ex­penses. He claims that he is in love with the young woman so that everyone will treat the two of them as though they were married. A living arrangement ofconvr,:nience does not a marriage make, in my opinion; whatever the depths of caring, they don't love each other enough to take the vows, binding themselves to fidelity forever. It's none ofmy business iithey share bed ~d board, as long as they don't insist to me that their cohabitation is as sincere as marriage. The young man reminds me of the Hemingway character who thought it was romantic to have a mistress instead ofa w'ife. It takes patience to refrain from telling him he is immature. At . dinner, it feels like I'm seeing a case study from the Yuppie Handbook. 
We dine at an ethnic restaurant so that he can eatsushi. Sushi tastes to me like the part ofthe fish that the chefshould throw out. It may be brain food for young professionals, but I'm too old to pretend that it isn't bad. "lfyou know sushi like I know sushi," I say as a joke, when he notices that I am not eating. 
He has a favorite waitress. I too have preferred waitresses at places like the University Club. Having a preferred waitress at age thirty is like having a mistress with whom loyalty means everything. We weren't allowed to see a menu until Madame Butterfly was free to serve 
I( 
Movies 
us. We couldn't order a drink until Madame Butterfly had time to bring it. On a busy night, we could have starved to death because Madame Butterfly's attention was necessary to hisbon appetit. It cost us an extra hour, insisting on Madame Butterfly, because she had other customers who were more important. Itwas his ego trip, not mine, so he left the tip. At New York restaurants, you pay the price ifyou want them to remember your name. 
I'm not being fair to him. He wanted to be impressive, so there were intimate little wines he swore by, and grape-leave quiches, and ex­pensive cigarettes free ofsaltpeter, which is an anti-aphrodisiac he says, handmade by Sherman the tobac­
conist on Fifth Avenue. He is making it in New York as a successful Yuppie. He has horror stories to tell and battle scars to show. The skir­mishes and victories seem larger than life. 
I keep looking behind his excite· 
ment at making it, for his signs ofsin­
cerity. I hear him talking down to 
me, and his glibness is annoying. I 
want him to be simpler in his life­
style. I hope I am not jealous ofa 
young professional who keeps 
trying to convince me he's having a 
ball. 
An Irish Yuppie has this gift ofgab, which is often poetry until he tries to live up to it. Young Yuppies grow into old Yuppies, when they become shabby and sad, like phonies, be­cause they've kidded themselves too long. One is old enough at thirty to turn authentic. One is old enough to laugh at himself, or be laughed at by his friends, as a stereotype which is not funny. Yuppiness doesn't have to be terminal as a character flaw. 

The young man said, "We have gotten a cat." Ofcourse. A townehouse is not a home without a cat. Just Molly and me, and Tabby makes three. A cat is not as much ofa commitment as a dog would be; no couple evergave hostages to fortune by adopting a cat. A cat is a survivor ifyou give up the lease, as expend­able as a live-in girlfriend. It's the creature that people who are busy or selfish would choose: you never have to take a cat for a walk or an airing. It's the pet that suits the flexibility of modern arrangements ofconvenience: a cat doesn't get confused when one ofthe partners leave. 
I hated hearing that they had got­ten a cat. t sounded to me like a substitute for the nuisance of children. 
I like both him and her. I would prefer to see each one ofthem making it separately as Yuppies, living in separate apartments; ar­guing (ifyou will forgive the pun) from ditlerent premises, until they are ready for a consecrated toget­h:rness; but it's none ofmy business. They want me to praise and admire them as a wonderful team, but they make me sad Sushi and handmade cigarettes and Madame Butterfly don't impress me, but like their own families, I play the game hiding the truth. 
I don't have the courage to declare that keeping a cat is the waste ofa townhouse. Why should Young Urban Professionals listen to me? 
by Rev. David Schlaver 
guest features columnist 
Winger endearing in 'Ternts' 
break down Aurora's strict exterior
by Stephen Thomas by daring her to have a little fun. Nic­holson's character is naturally 
features staff writer 

portrayed and very amusing. 
0 
ne can't ecscape the positive conversation concerning the past year's holiday film releases, a selection offilms that helped give the movie industry some dignity in a year they'd probably like to forget. While "Yentl" and "Silkwood" were popular crowd pleasers,John Lith­gow's "Terms of Endearment" stands out as the finest ofthe holiday ftlms. 
"Terms ofEndearment" stars Shir­ley Mac Laine as a middle aged widow, Debra Winger as Mac Laine's newly married daughter, Jack Nic­holson, an ex-astronaut and Mac Laine's neighbor.and Jeff Daniels as Winger's husband. "Terms" catalogues the progression ofa relationship between a mother and a daughter, from the daughter's younger years to her sudden and shocking death. 
Debra Winger, in a role that's quite a change from "An Officer and a Gentleman," plays a newlywed and mother of three trying to make the best ofan overabundance of problems. Emma (Winger) comes into contlict with her mother who disapproves ofher new husband. She also has trouble with her hus· hand. that becomes unfaithful all too st>on, and two bothersome sons. 
Shirley Mac Laine is Aurora, a mot­her that has to deal with the parting ofher daughter from home, a new man in her life, and the advent t ofher new title, "grandmother." 
Jeff Daniels (Flap) must decide between a better job in a new state and his wife's desire to remain in Texas. 
The film's title is perfect, in that all its' characters must come to terms with the decisions and changes in their lives. What makes "Terms of Endearment" so unique is its' ability to fine tune into reality. "Terms" takes the ordinary and makes it spe­cial, without any special effects or flashy photo&liilphy. We become part ofthe H<Tfton family as they en­counter situations in their lives that we've encountered or are yet to 
face. 
Ifa film rejects special effects and unusual story lines, then it must draw upon other resources to make it work. In other words, the charac· ters must become thespecial effects in this type offilm. It is with great success that the characters do carry the weight in "Terms." Winger's Em­ma is finely crafted from the way she wears her hair to the way she walks. Emma is so enjoyable because she is so sincere. She really works hard to make her marriage work and make things better for herself. Emma is neither very beautiful or very intel­ligent, just an person making the best ofwhat she has. 
Shirley Mac Laine is a somewhat 
eccentric character. Sheappears as if 
she knows it all' ~i{J' Hlls ~t:dt.ifall, 
and refuses to compromise her stan­
dards. Jack Nicholson is an ex· 
astronaut who is determined to 

Ifany criticism can be made ofthe film, it may be that it tries too hard to be emotional at times. The film has been criticized for being too melodramatic and too obvious about what it tries to do. Overall, though, the film is sincere and any melodrama that may appear in the 
film's slow beginningfades out in its' progression. "Terms ofEndear­ment" is receiving a lot ofattention in a year when it doesn't have much competition to worry about. "Terms" is listed as the top film on 
the lists of PBS' "Sneak Previews" critics and has been nominated for a 
number ofGolden Globe Awards. 
Rumors are also nominating the film for a number ofAcademy Awards as well. "Terms of Endearment" is tes­timony to the fact thatpeople movies ("Kramer vs. Kramer," "Ordinary People," "The Big Chill") never fail in winning the hearts of audiences, because they're about aU ofus. 
S
hortly before 5 p.m. on Thursday, Dec. 29, I got a call from St . 
Joseph Medical Center with news that oneofourfreshmen was in 
serious condition in cardiac care. Calls like that come occasionally, 
but this time Iwas doubly shocked, for I knew Ken Furuhashi and his 
family for nearly seven years. 
Within 15 minutes I was at the hospital and met his shocked and confused parents. Yu and Mitsu, waiting outside the unit while Ken was being wired to various life-sustaining devices inside. 
That night our vigil began at his bedside: 40 hours ofprayer, spoken and silent, that God would deliver him from suffering andre­store him to health. In a briefsign ofhope that night, a nurse told us that he requested to watch the liberty Bowl on his bedside T.V., but his heart was too unstable and his consciousness too brief 
Ken still recognized us that night, uncomfortable as hewas. Later, when his dad told him that we had indeed won the Uberty Bowl, he feebly raised his right arm in a victory salute. That was about his last gesture, a last sign ofrecognition as he lapsed into a coma early Friday morning. 
Compassionate doctors and nurses shared our anxiety and tried their best to understand and treat his mysterious ailment. Nothing seemed to work. Bottles ofsaline and dextrose, pumped full of strong medicines -nothing changed the inevitable downward spiral ofKen's declining heart. 
Many others came and kept vigil with us during those long hours -colleagues from the business school, priests ofHoly Cross, deans and faculty, all praying and hoping -a procession ofthe Notre Dame family. 
The procession continued in the days following Ken's death, gathering with his family, keeping vigil over his coffin in the Lady Chapel ofSacred Heart Church, and carrying him to rest in Cedar Grove Cemetary at the entrance to the campus. 
It was a procession ofsad faces ofmothers and fathers, wondering how they would deal with the death ofa child oftheir own. Some, indeed had undergone similar tragic experiences, and wept again, openly, as they saw another family in sorrow and disbelief 
Those who knew Ken understood better the great loss for his fami­ly. He was a good son and brother and friend And eighteen years of life is so short. Ken lived it with such enthusiasm and grace, such joy and high ideals. 
In his own quiet way he grew up quickly, loving those around him 
and making great plans to extend his loving service to all God's 
people. He loved Notre Dame and all he experienced here. His mind 
and body were developing well. His spirit was deepening in faith, 
hope, and love. 
Ken began very early to learn all .he could learn. He was an excel­
lent student, full ofwonder and curiosity. Through his studiesoflan­
guage and science he found great inspiration to go further and 
further into the mysteries ofGod's creation. 
The beauties oftwo cultures tantalized him and so much did he 
look forward to spending next year in Tokyo to further explore his 
OV\'I1Japanese roots. Music and art flourished in his family and he so 
enjoyed the companyofthese gifts in himselfand those close to him. 
Through all those eighteen years he found endless ways to 
demonstrate his love for his parents and sister, his friends and class­
mates. His quiet strength and goodness gave much hope to all ofus. 
Ken and all ofus looked forward to so many more years of 
friendship and love and service together here on earth. Now we are 
faced with the reality that those plans are changed forever. 
Ken was baptized in Sacred Heart Church 18 years ago, an act of 
faith on the part ofhis parents. When we brought him back to that 
church for burial a few weeks ago, we tried to call forth a similarly 
strong faith -faith in God's love. Only God can tum our sadness at 
parting into joy for Ken's new life in God's kingdom. 
Many ofus only come to realize it in tragedy -but it is neverthe­
less always true: We are the Notre Dame family. How often have we 
rejoiced in this place, celebrating our common life and adventures 
as we learn about God's universe and strengthen our resolve to bet­
ter serve his people throughout the world. 
How often, too, have we shared our saddest moments as a family. 
We come together in joy and sorrow, in sickness and in health, in life 
and in death. We believe in the Lord's presence in our lives and we 
look to him for salvation from suffering and sin and death. 
We truly are God's children, members ofone family. Notre Dame 
helps us immensely to stay together as a family. When we finally 
come into that kingdom oflight and peace we shall know what it is 
like. Ken now has tha knowledge. We stay behind a while longer, 
waitingand hopingfor ourown share in God'sgood time. When that 
time comes we too shall see God as he is. That we believe. 
Lord, help our unbelief. 

Father Schlaver is Director ofCampus Ministry. 

Sports Briefs 
Lifesaving/Water Safety Instructor Courses will bt· offered at the Rocknt: Pool at the following times: Lifesar•ing ­
9: I 0-9:4';, I 0: I ';-1 0:';0, I I :20-1 I :';0, anti I :20-1 :';'; on Mondays, Wednesdays anti Fridays, I I :0';-12:0';, I :20-2:20 on Tuesdays anti Thursdays, anti 12-3 on Saturday beginning Jan. 21. Water Safety Instructor classes will be hdtl from 9 a.m. to noon. There will be a charge of $6 for materials for Lifesaving classes anti a $20 charge for Water Safety materials. For more information. call Brother Louis Hurcik, C.S.C., at 239-6321. -The Obseroer 
WSND-AM 64 will broadcast tonight's Notre 
Dame-St. Norbert hockey game. Bill Dempsey, jim Leous, and Ken 
Frysztak will call the action beginning at 7:30p.m. -The Obseroer 
The Villanova-Notre Dame game will be broadcast by WSND-AM 64 tomorrow at I p.m. The Digger Phelps Show will be on tat 12:';5 p.m. prior to the game. Gary Jbara and Barry Fay will call the action. -The Obsert•er 
The women's crew teani-novice and varsity will haw a mandatory meeting on Sunday,January 22, in l..afomme at 7p.m.-The0hsenl£>r 
Roster entries for NVA's men's and women's volleyball tournaments arc being accepted until Wednesday, jan. 25. Rosters must include no less than seven players, all of whom represent the same hall, plus the captain's name and telephone number. Games will consist of I 5 points and must be won by at least two points; teams will play hcst out ofthree. Submit rosters to the interhall office or call 239-61 00. -The Obserr,er 
RacquetballDoublesmen's and women's tourneys art· being sponsored by the NVA office. Players must represent the same hall and will play best of three games to 21 points. Players will be notified of draw and winners must submit scores. To enter call 239-6100 or stop by office C2-ACC by jan. 25. -The Obseroer 
A TrackCOOipetitionis being sponsored by the NVA office. Events include 60-yartllow hurdles, a mile run, a 4-lap relay, 60-yard dash, 440-yard and 880-yard runs, an eight lap relay, high jump, anti broad jump. Points will be awarded for first and second place halls as ranked by points compiled by individuals. To sign up, (.·all 239-6100 or stop by office C2-ACC. -The Obseroer 
IfYOU want to Ski but don't have any skis, the NVA office is renting skis Thursdays through Sundays. Skis must be reserved in advance. Call 2 39-61 00. -The Obserr,er 
ARacquetball Clinic for beginners is being offered for students, faculty, and staff on Jan. 30 at 7 p.m. at ACC Court 2. Ran1uets will be provided and there is no charge. Call 239-6100 for more info. -The Obseroer 
Workouts for the 54th Bengal Bouts have begun 
and will continue throughout the semester leading up to the fights. 
No previous experience Is necessary. Workouts begin at 4 p.m. 
every day in the north dome ofthe ACC. For information, call Angelo 
Perino at 3348, Tom Lezynski at 1 728, or Mike Latz at 8308. -The 
Obseroer 

Friday,January·zo, 1984-page 8 
Go after 22nd consecutive winning season 
Men fencers open with two wins 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
Veteran coach Mike DeCicco 
believes that his Notre Dame men's 
fencing team is an epee man away 
from being an outstanding team as 
the Irish begin their 1984 season 
with a record of 2-0. 
After losing three all-Americans to graduation, the Irish are looking for­ward to a 22nd consecutive winning season. 
"I believe that we have the talent 
to notch a fourth straight 20-win 
season," explained DeCicco. 
This year's team boasts extremely 
competitive sabre and foil groups 
along with a young and determined 
epee squad. 
The foil squad, lead by sophomore Mike VanderVelden, who posted a 34-20 mark a year ago, finished second in individual competition in the United States Fencing Associa­tion (USFA) Collegiate Open held last weekend in Chicago. The Irish, 
who beat MIT, 5-l, and Penn, ';-3, lost to Columbia, 3-5, in the final round. 
Van der Velden, who finished fourth in the foil at the Great Lakes Championships last year, won the gold medal for individual foilers at 

Mike VanderVelden 
the USFA Open to go along with his 
4-1 season, which includes a 3-0 
record against Pennsylvania on jan. 
11. 
In the number two starting posi­tion is freshman Charles Higgs­Coulthard, who had an outstanding preseason according to DeCicco. Higgs-Coulthard's season record is at 6-2 with an impressive 4-0 mark against Cornell Tuesday. 
Senior Chris Grady, captain ofthe foil squad, will provide experience and stability throughout the season as he came into the year with a 30-22 career record. Grady, who has "earned" a starting position, has won matches against Pennsylvania and Cornell this year. 
Satisfied but confident of im­provement with a team mark of 31­17 against Corqell, Grady sees Van der Velden as truly impressive and "outstanding" thus far in the foil. 
Perhaps the strongest of the three squads this year is the sabre squad. Lead by junior captain Mike Janis, 
Mike Janis 
fourth place finish in the Great Lakes 
Tournament), has posted a S-0 
record this year. 
"Janis has been our number-one 
sabre man for two years," comments 
DeCicco, "and I believe he will con­
tinue to improve." 
To go along with his unbeaten 
record, Janis achieved a fourth place 
finish in the USFA Open. Finishing 
fifth was sophomore Don johnson. 
Johnson, who has notched a 5-2 
record this far into the season, was a 
remarkable 4-0 against Cornell as he 
fenced with a severe case of 
pneumonia. Johnson, who was ad­
mitted to the infirmary after that 
match, will probably miss the 
matches in Evanston this weekend. 
Also on the injured list is sopho­
more John Edwards, 1-0, who was 
last year's MVP in the sabre as a 
freshman, when he went 41-10. 
Picking up the slack is sophomore 
Tony Consoli, who has established 
an impressive 5-2 record thus far. 
Despite the injuries,Janis is happy with the performance of this squad and looks forward to good fortune for the Irish now and in the future. 
This year's epee squad is an ex­tremely young group lead by junior captain Andy Quaroni. The Irish, who lost three premier epeeist to graduation in Ola Harstrom, Rich Daly, and Jan Tivenius, will look to Quaroni to solidify this young squad and give them his experience. 
DeCicco believes that Quaroni, who has a 63-14 lifetime record and is undefeated thus far at S-0, has the skills to become Notre Dame's next national champion. 
Quaroni, who won the gold medal in the individual epee competition at the USFA Open, led his team to a fifth place finish in that tournament and an 11-5 trouncing of Cornell. 
Sophomore Brian St. Clair, in the number two position on the squad, finished sixth in the USFA Open and was 2-0 against Cornell. Freshman John Haugh, who also placed near the top in the open, went iLO against Cornell, also. 
Quaroni, who has been impressed the Irish sabre squad captured first place in the USFA Open by downing Penn State, S-4, last Saturday. 
janis, who has a 7';-21 career record ( 40-11 last year along with a with the efforts of this young squad which is primarily made up of un­derclassmen. credited Mike DeCic­co Jr. with the tlccisivc victory to clinch the Cornell match, which boosted the epee squad's record to 

1-1. 
Quaroni is confident of improve­ment throughout this year and com­mented, "We're ready for Northwestern (an opponent of the Irish over the weekend)." 
Overall, coach DeCicco, with his career record at 414-39, is optimis­tic about this year's team. 
"We have always prided ourselves in having outstanding depth," com­mented DeCicco. "This year will be no different. This squad has a lot of potential but we will have to wait 
until March to find out how we have developed." 

Andy Quaroni 
In March, the Irish will be opposed by stiff competition in the Great Lakes Championships on March 3 at Notre Dame and in the NCAA Championships March 20-21 at Princeton. They will be trying to match and surpass their 23-2 record last year and second place finish in the NCAA Championships. 

Mike DeCicco 
In the end, Notre Dame likely will be in the hunt for their third national :hampionship. 
First, however, the Irish must face Northwestern, Michigan State, and 'Minnesota this weekend in Evanston. 

Tbe Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ofHaggar CoUege Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Frid~.y. Oeadline for next.day clas­sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mall.
Classifieds 
Charge is I 0 cents per seven characters per day. 
I 
I I I I.
,-1, 
it 
I 9
I •
I I I I I I 
LEARN TO XC SKI THIS WINTER!' 
BEGINNER'S SKI CLINIC TUESDAY. JAN. 24CAll NVA239-6100TO AEGIS­TEA. 

ATIENTION NORTHEASTEANEASI!I M-plans IO< the summer yet? Well ~ not. how about three months of gfonous hVtng on the white sand beaches of Avalon and Wildwood NIW Jcney flvee FOR. RENT opentngs are av.-Call Pat 8762 beloreJIIr\.25111fo(dltlalla.. · .•. L , 
NOTICES 
i .~ 
. • t ;"~
Elperienced T yptll· MALE RO<JMMATE needld now. Castle
~'I 1-'. 
Mrs. Bedlord Poinl. CAll s.ve277-32011 tjoora; ' .. \' )". ~J. ~-·.-···;··;;;:·····;;;;;;;;;;;··;;;;;;;..
aAMto5PM Mcnttlr\IFri 
w/llrepltce. -··-& dryer.
218-2107 c..232-«167 or 272·7787. 

...••........•••:•••..; ..•••••• n •.\:1.~.~-1-.·.-t···S:; {" uf, SIIVERAl HOUSES THAT Wl.l AC· CROSS COUNTRY SICI RENTALS · Ca.IODATE 2-7 STUDENTS. THURSDAY THAll Sl.NlAY. C~ NVA AV/IIIUIA£ FOA NEXT SCHOOl AT 2»-41100 YEAR. CAll AFTEA 5. 234-lDM. 
oooo:oOOooOoo_o..oooo""''"'''''''uoOoooooOOo+-•-•ooo_;,, 

WANTED 
ROOMATE WANTED-$90&elllctnc. fur· nished & CllrJ)Nd. good lOcation. 232­
35112(-5)  
WAim!D: sell-motivated hours per - ~ed. indivldutll lo -2 ... placing and filing posWa  

on campus. Earn $500-ptus each school v-. 1-1100-243-6679. 
FOR SALE 
STANO-UP BAR FOA SJILE. GOOD CONDITION. C~ 2137 
•oooo'ooooOO;oOoooooOoooooooooo~OOOOOO•"•'..'''''''U'O,ooooooooo 
FOR SALE-12·· BW TV. 1 year old. works great 50$. Call 8~1 239-7666 0< 277­4653. 
PERSONALS 
ItO NO NO Yo. Hitlon 
~Of'lNIDAY ~-ol~ 

SENIORS· Volunteer Work wrth HOLY 
CROSS ASSOCIATES. Communrty 
tivtng and service in PHOENIX. 
COLORADO. CALIFORNIA. AND 
OREGON. Dead~ne IO< applications 
Feb.3. Call Mary Ann Roemer. 7949 
REWRITE 

.......................;....;,;,..... ..,..... 
What ever happened to Aula Lenaka? 
S. in the Soulhwn Sun Spring Break. Let 
Boal World Cruises 5/MM you the blue ·-& golden sands of Florida and the llaher1las for.. ··.·a -·Needect:On Campus Reps 
Contact: ·t 
BOAT WORlD CRUISES 1280 N. Federal Hwy. ~Beach. FL. 33061 305-1142·8500 
Buy and sell your used teX1s at Pandora s Bool<s You"ll save 29'. off the list pnce when you purchase your teX1s through us. Fast delivery. Buying Books Mon·Thurs. 
1:00 · 4:00 STOP IN1937 So Bend Ave 
Laura and Joan.. l(eap SI!JIIing • ~ you · · 
both!!ICIIot 
......................,.........,.............~··.;.··· ......... 
TUTORS NEEDED FOR ON-CAMPUS JAHIGH WORKSHOPS 7 SATURDAYS STARtiNG FEB. 11. PAID POSITIONS 
C~JUUEAT~70R~ .............,,;_,,,.........~: ........................... 
uuuu URBAN PLUNGERS WELCOME BACKI HOW WAS IT? TELL US ABOUT IT! REFLECTION PAPERS DUE MON­DAY AT NOON AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. 

The Observer Friday, January 20, 1984-page 9 
NCAA Football 
Rules coiDmittee adopts changes 
Associated Press committee's deliberations were penalized too severely for inter­
MISSION. Kan.-Tht: NCAA Foot­again aimed at greater safety for the ference on long pass plays penalized hall Rules Committee has adopted participants," David M. Nelson, as a spot foul. several ruks changes for the 1984 secretary-rules editor of the com­st:ason to provide mort: safety for mittee, said in a news release yester­Another major rule change collegt: playt:rs. including a reduc­day. modifies the touchback provision tion in tht: number oflegal clips. In another rule change. the com­on kickoffs. Kickoffs that travel 
In a thrtT·day meeting that ended mittee modified the penalty for Wednesday, the committee decided defensive pass interference. Instead beyond the end zone in flight will be that clipping will be allowed only by of being penalized as a spot foul, brought out to the 30-yard line players within the legal clipping defensive pass interference now rather than the 20-yard line. 
zone and positioned legally on the becomes a I ';-yard penalty from the 
· The rules committee hopes the 
line ofscrimmage. The players being previous spot and an automatic first 
new rule will increase the number of 
blocked also must he in the zone. down. Previously. playt:rs outside the Pass interference had been a spot kickoff returns by penalizing kickers zone -a rectangular area extending foul since 1917, but the committee who consistently boot the ball five yards laterally on either side of ruled that defensive teams were beyond the end zone. the spot of the snap and three yards behind each scrimmage line ­could legally clip upon entering the zone. 
• • • Howard 
Defensive players also may not block below the waist or clip. even 
schools, including Boston College,
in the the legal clipping zone, on any continuedfrom page 12 
North Carolina, and Maryland.
down involving a punt. many of Notre Dame's opponents. A 
"The reason I chose Notre Dame,"
The committee also modified the standout player in high school, 
he says, "was that, to me, it was a 
rule on "crack-back" blocks. No of­Howard played with some of the 
challenge -not only athletically,
fensjve player seven or more yards best. He played in the McDonald's 
but academically -and I felt that I 
fror-9 the middle of the offensive All-American Game with many of 
could secure a good future for 
forr/lation may block any opponent the nation's finest, including Pat myself"
bcl~w the waist toward the of­Ewing, who was on Howard's team 
"The reason I chose football,"
fensive formation. for that event. 
Howard continues, "was that there Laura Dougherty and the Irish women's basketball team bead to "The major emphasis of the rules Howard was recruited by many aren't many small guys playing NBA DePaul tomorrow, hoping tofind a team leader and to get back on basketball. and. ifI'm lucky, I may be the winning track. For more on tomorrow's game, see Mike Sul­able to play NFL or llSFL football." livan's preview below.
GAIN A SKILL WHILE 

The 5-9 junior communications
YOU GAIN THE MONEY 

major emphasizes, however, that 
"school is first." 
FOR COLLEGE. 

Floundering women 
Despite his good showing on the
With the Army College Fund, you learn a skill while 
road trip, Howard admits that he was 
you accumulate the money for college. So you don't 
somewhat uneasy about coming 
travel to DePaul 
waste any of your precious time, or stand still while 
home to the ACC. 
"To be honest, I was more nerv­ous when I played here Monday than By MIKE SULLIVAN Ifthe team doesn't wake up for the 
your college money is growing. 
To qualify, you must be high school graduate, make 
I was when I played on the road be­Sports Editor game against the Blue Demons. it
good marks on the Armed Services qualification test, 
cause I knew that everybody was could be in for trouble because Ron
and enlist and train in one of several selected skills 
talking about me. I didn't want to go The Notre Dame women's basket­Fciereisel's team has traditionally 
which will challenge your mind. 
out there and stink the place up. I ball team might be floundering a bit given Notre Dame trouble with its was pretty up for it, and when I first after Wednesday night's loss to scrappy play and pressure defense. went in, I was so emotionally high Loyola, but, if Coach Mary DiStanis­Last year, the Irish barely squeaked 
You can start immediately growing the money for 
college. And for every $1 you save out of your salary 
that that's why I got tired so fast. But lao has her way, things will change by the Demons with a 52-50 win af.
(Which is more than $570 per month), the government 
in the second half! wasn't tired at all beginning tomorrow when the Irish ter losing a big lead. 
will add $5. Or more. If you put up $100 a month, after 
because I had gotten used to the at­visit DePaul -or else. She made this The similarities between the two 
a 2-year enlistment, you'll have $15,200 for college. 
mosphere already." point loud and clear when she held teams are numerous. Both teams 
Howard credits his new practice immediately after the game. have tough schedules, both arc cur­teammates as being very helpful. He "Now it's time to play 'To Tell the rently 6-9. both lost close games to 
Plus a skill that could help you decide which direction 
to take in college. And the future. 
especially cited Joe Buchanan. Truth,"' warns DiStanislao. "The real Loyola, and both are playing worse
Pick up a copy of the Army College Fund booklet at 
"At practice,Joe Buchanan, who is team leader is going to have to stand than expected. A loss would be very
your local Army recruiting office. 
a point guard. has been really a great up because we need one. It's time costly to either team. 
SGT Jones 234-4187 Call Collect. 
help as far as me learning the offense. for some people to makt· a move. If DePaul is led by senior guard Barb I think that's a plus for him, because (last night) didn't wake people up, I Atsaves who led the team last year in it shows that he's a team player." don't know what will." scoring with a I ';.2 average. She is not scoring quite as much this year. 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

~_....,..~...,.. •....,.........,.............................. .......,...,..~IIO.oor"t'~...,........,........,...~..,...........,......,....,...AI 

but she is the first person that the Notre Dame defense must shut
~ ~ ~ ~ 
down. "Atsaves is a very good shooter
Bruno's II 
and, very often, as she goes so goes 
. the team," says DiStanislao. "Against Loyola, she didn't play very well." 
This Old House Pizzeria & Pub 
in Roseland 
I ~ 6Uarlol'o i ~ Last year, however, it was not Atsaves that gave the Irish troubk, but rather senior forward Janine 
~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
Douglas who keyed the Demon
\ i 
comeback attempt. Despite being a
On Campus Delivery
\ ~ 
short ( S-9) front line player. 
Douglas was able to get in good posi­
~ ~ 
Monday thru Saturday 
tion for rebounds and inside baskets. 
~ Everything But the Gondola ~ 
"Douglas could really pose some
1 liter Pepsi free with Small 
l Southern Italy Is Close ~ 
problems for us," says DiStanislao. 
"She's very fast around the basket
~ As Parisi's Italian Restaurant ~ 
21iters Pepsi free with medium 
and works the baseline very well." 
l Features Their Favorite Dishes ~ 
3 liters Pepsi free with large 
Douglas and Atsaves will get sup­
i To the Notre Dame Students and Faculty ~ 
port from sophomore judy Banathy, 
the team's leading scorer early in the
\ ~ Ravioli I~I Manicotti ~ 
r------------------------~ 
year, 6-4 freshman center Melinda
277-4519 BRUNO'S 277-4519 I
~ [!] Pasta l*l Veal Parmiagiana \ 

Balm, and forwards Anne Parrish and MaryLou O'Brien. 
~ [!] Fettuccine [!] Chicken Cacciatore ~ 
It is DePaul's pressure defense
~ Cocktail-Beer-Wine ~ 
that the Irish must beat if they hope to get closer to.5DO. Turnovers have
\ and of course i 
been one of the things that have
\ Don't Miss Our Own Original "PIZZA" \ 
plagued them and a large number of turnovers tomorrow would probab­
t Open for Lunch and Dinner ~ 
ly give Notre Dame its tenth loss. "A consistent, intense 40 minutes 
against DePaul should give us a win," 
~ Tuespay-Saturday ·1­
~~1 
says DiStanislao. 
---~ Authori:ed Si!!nature 
Consistency and intensity have
\ f#il Carry Out Available ~ 
l 277•4:519 COFFEREXPIRI?S!l'NEii.C'lil<) 277•4519 J 
not been Notre Dame's strong
L 
points this year. However. there are
~ .~~~ N.~~l~ of Edis~~ on Rt. 2~~~ · ~ 
----~--------------------~
Mon · Thur Fri -Sat 
still 13 games remaining, and, if last 
~ ~IM :0~1:;, .·111 r-•/• '~ _, ~· -~ 
'IHT'14.pm-10 pm 
4 pm ·11 pm 
year is any indication. DiStanislao's 
~ Res.: 2.77-0578 . ~ · 
squa<;t is a good stretch team. But, as 
.the coach herself said, it's time to
i No· · \
L....,......,...........,..................................._..,...........~............~........~....,... ........................,.t.._____________....,_..___________....,_. ·nake a move. 
... .

' ...... ·, '·" 
The Observer Friday,January 20, 1984-page 10 
McEnroe beats Vilas in challenge tnatch 
By SARAH HAMIL TON 
.\jwrts l~'riter 
"Win on~· ti>r the <iippc:r, John," shouted ont· fan to John McEnroe prior to last ni~ht's First Source Bank Tt·nnis ( :halkn~e vs. <iuillermo Vilas in the ACC. And so he did, a~ tht· world's number one mt·tl's tennis playn ddi:atnl the Ar~entinian 6-:\. -~-(,, (>--~ hdi>re the lar~est aut!knee to view a tennis match in Michiana history. 
The two top ranked tennis players entered tht· art·tu amidst spotlights and a smoke screen. to tht· rune of "Eye of tht· Ti~cr." Once they took 
"I think I've done a lot more good than badfor the game ... " 
-John McEnroe 

their positions on the court, howt·ver, it was "rt·ally hont·st ten­nis" as Vilas worded it in a press con­fcrt·nce earlier yesterday. 
In the press conft-n·ncc, Vilas said that that night's tennis would be "the best tennis wt· can play." But his d'li>rts were not enou~h. McEnroe dai mn.l three gamt·s bd(Jrt' Vilas was ahk to win one. Vilas tied the scort· at 5-.~. but ~kEn roe took tht· next three ~amt·s and tht· set. 
Vilas dominated the second set as he allownl the rtTent Volvo Masters champion only two games while scoring live. McEnroe mana~ed one more win hcli>re Vilas wrapped up the set. 
The two exchanged wins in the third set until the score was three all. 
SUMMER LAW STUDY 
in 

Dublin London Mexico City Oxford Paris Russia-Poland San Diego 
Foreign Law Programs Um•. of San 018110 School of Law 

McEnroe showed himself the cham­
pion by winning the next three 
games, and an Omega watch, a silver 
plate, and a kpn:chaun doll, the 
prizes li>r winning the match. 

Although this was not a pro circuit 
match, the audience did get to wit­
ness some of McEnroe's well 
publicized antics. Due to the lack of 
cxpcrit:ncc oftht· ball boys and girls, 
they were frequently unsure as to 
their duties. much to the frustration 
of the players. At one point in the 
match, McEnroe fell flat on his back 
after pretending to collide with a 
hall boy. Ill: also very excitedly questioned calls of the umpire on several occasions, to the enjoyment of the crowd. 
When asked about his controver­sial behavior on the court. McEnroe ddi:nded himself hy saying that there arc no microphones on foot­hall fields or hockey rinks. lie says that athletes behave similarly in all sports and if he is going to he criticized for his words and actions, so should everyone else. 
McEnroe said that deep down he loves the sport hut that all of the reproat·h he receives makes it "more of a job." Concentrating on his negativt· traits is a cop out, accord­ing to him. 
"I think I've done a lot more good than had t~>r the ~ame," says McEnroe. 
Prior to the main event, tennis racquets hclongin~ to McEnroe and Vii:L~ were auctioned. Vilas' sold for S6'50 and McEnroe's brought in lll600. Each racquet was autographed hy its owner. The proceeds were donated to the Uni­versity hy the players. 

The Observer/Paul Ciferelli 

Number one ranked te1mis plt~yer .fohn McEnroe brought his loud mouth and much publicized antics challenge match. For more on this euent, see Sarab to the ACC last night as he met Guillermo Vilas in a Hamilton's story at left. 
At press conference today 1 
Rose expected to sign with Expos 

Associated Press 
MONTREAL -The Montreal Ex­
pos have called a press conference 
for I p.m. EST today and it is ex­
pected the National League baseball 
duh will announce the signing of 
veteran free agent Pt·te Rose. 
Rose, the former Cincinnati Reds' 
star, was released hy the Philadel­
phia Phillies following the 1983 
World Series. 
An Expos spokesman declined comment yesterday on the news conference. 
6.50 Savings •••••••••••••••., 
I~--------------· 
I
I 

I I I 

'" minutes from campus II I I 
I I 
Hair Cut Shampoo Blow Dry & Condition 
54533 Terrace Lane, !!outh Bend (Across from Reg. $15·00 \ Martin's on S.R. 23)
I I Now $8·50 with coupon 
I I l ' w ~:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons
I 
Th 8:30-8:30
I 

I Fr 8:30-6:00 I s 8:30-2:30I I ,_:lased Man 277-1691 272-0812 
!.---·•••••••••••6.50 Savings •••••-•••••••...•-' 
Rose, on a Cincinnati radio talk show Wednesday, refused to specify which team he expects to join, hut said he held discussions with Montreal last week and would enjoy playing with the Expos. t 
"When they talked to me last week, they talked about me playing left field," said Rose. "They're a good halkluh and, being a Philly for the last five years, I know a lot about the Expos." 
If Rose signs with the Expos and plays left lleld, Tim Raines would move to right, with Andre Dawson staying in center. 
Earlier Rose, represented hy hb lawyer, said he hoped to sign with the Reds. where he played 16 seasons before goin~ to Ph iladel­phia. 
But he said he realized the Reds were not going to chase him after they acquired veteran Tony Perez from the Phillics. Pert·z played with Rose on Cincinnati's Big Red Machine teams of the mid-70s. 

What Does the Student Union Record Store Have in Store for Me 
CHEAPER PRICES ... suw24-.l2•fJ""""m'-' MOST CURRENT SINGLES-!·6Jorcompureut 
$8.99/isr) 

CUT-OUTS...$2.98-!5.98 GREATSELECTION... SP""~'-'"""· Fo,elh.,,, Sre>m 
Nicks, Chriswpher Cross, ,,.,foody Blue-;, Pur Benurur, Journey und 
muny, muny more... 
A LSQ. , . ret orded und hlunk rupe.~ UWJIIuble. 

CONVENIENCE. .. TheNDSURecordSuwe,I(ocuted on the Mum Flour ofLuForrune. Plus-ordered ulb11m~ IIJke unly one week 10 urm·e.' 




T0 day____________________
F_ri_d_ar_._Ja_n_u_ary_2_o_.1_9_8_4--p-ag_e_l_l 
Bloom County 

The Far Side 
AL1HOU6H, FRANKLY I WISH YOU HAilN'T CU/t113£P ABOAI<P 111AT SHIP ANI7 CHAIN€17 
Y!XIRSfii.F 1V 1HflT (?fliNT HARPOON CANNON ... OH MY.•. THf:Y PlilN'T /..IKE THAT... NOP6 NOPE. 
I 

ATTYIDU> 6Y HIS 114lt1EDJATE FAifi'Y ,RINAtP Mci>QNALD, THE 
HIIM&IIfiGIAR., AND GAl~~AU. 
KP;OC DIID lASr SWNDII Y 
Gary Larson 

"Dang! ... Sorry, buddy." 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  33 Church an·  50 Pleasure  
1 Scarlett's  nouncement  seeker  
home  34 Conductor  53 Vilifies  
5 African antelope 10 Devious doing 14 Skip  Georg 36 Pair 37 Stupid one 38 Paris pops 39 Coconut  57 "Unto •Js ­is given" 58 Close down 60 Computer fodder  
15 Director  fiber  
King 16 Menu mixture 17 Stop 19 Stop (with "In") 20 Deleting Item 21 Distinct  40 Calendar abbr. 41 "Green Hat" author 42 Moroccan port 43 Husky owner 45 Hemlock  61 Moray catcher 62 Big brass 63 Decamped 64 Play 65 Prognosti· cation  
23 Drag along  drinker  
25 Got the message!  DOWN Drink too  
26 Mockingbird  47 Tissue  much  
state  swelling  2 Asian river  
30 If not  49 Seven­ 3 "Rio-"  

Berke Breathed 
PWTTONSl 

Dave & Dave 
STAY r~~N&D FP1. HM.1S H//.NIIfNS NE/IJ StrCD/If IJIISU DN rH£ t.V. f'fDVIE.''SDifETHINfi IIIDUT AMU~/1 
toM/Nri liP NEtT. 
Guindon Richard Guindon 
8 
% 

5 1·20 
Cl 

"We just have the potato skins. Potato centers 
would be mashed potatoes. We don't have mashed 
potatoes." 


4 Stymied 5 Turns in· side out 6 Writer Yutang 
7 Puts two and two together 
8 Onewho observes 9 Quitters 10 Horse of a color 11 Took to one's heels 
12 Settled 

down 13 Horse hair 18 Signsof 
the times 22 Vedicgod 24 Painter's 
prop 

26 Letter 44 "-choose group to run" 27 Ausculta· 46 Rhythmic 
tion sounds pause in 28 Stopped melody 29 Skin woes 48 Son of 
Jacob 31 Retinue 50 Pluvial 32 Shore birds bombardment 35 Gauzy 51 Fief drudge 
materials 52 Mex. fiber 38 Guaranteed 54 Like a hive 39 -be (expires) 55 Court wear 41 So be it 56 Arch 42 Muscle 59 Pro -(for 
problem the nonce) 
Thursday's Solution 
Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Transfer Reception, Keenan Hall Party Room, Sponsored by Transfer Orientation Com­mittee 

•4 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Men vs Ferris State, Rockne Pool 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "Risky Business," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $I 

•7:30 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Women vs Val­paraiso, Rockne Pool 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND Men vs St. Norbert, ACC 

•7:30 
and 9:30 p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Small Change," Annenberg Auditorium 


Saturday,Jan. 21 
•I 
:30 p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Villanova, ACCArena 

•'7. 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "Risky Business," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, SI 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND Men vs. St. Norbert. ACC 


Sunday,Jan. 22 
•I 
p.m. -Opening Art Exhibition, The Collec­tion of Walter Netsch, O'Shaughnessy Gallery West, Snite Museum ofArt 

•
3 p.m. -Senior Recital, Ms. Linda de Carvalho. piano, Little Theatre 

•8 
p.m. -World Hunger Coalition Meeting, CSC Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, 6 Minute People and Saint Mary's Peacemakers, Volunteer Services Center, Room 11 Holy Cross Hall 


Cartoon Fans: The Observer regretful­ly announces that "Fate" artist Photius has decided to discontinue his unforgettable comic strip. Beginning this week, the Today page wiJI carry Richard Guindon's "Guindon" comic. Guindon made a name for himself cartooning in Minnesota before he launched into the business of national syndication. Guindon's unique style of humor takes aim on all age, ethnic and economic groups. 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
1/20/84
All Rights Reserved 



---------------------~---------·---·------­


Friday,January 20, 1984-page 12 
Much improved Irish hope to end drought vs. Villanova tomorrow 
ByWILLHARE Similarly, Villanova has struggkd Wilbur. Sports Writer in the first halfofthc season after the "Wilbur can shoot the ball and graduation losses of.John Pinone and Dobbs has dont· some thing~ that 
In the past, Villanova llniversity Stewart Granger. The 'Cats arc just have surprised people." adds Phelps. has been called the Notre Dame of 6-7 and lacked the lcadership they "They arc streak shooters and you the East. But, in terms of basketball, had the year before when they made just can'tlet them get hot." it has been the Wildcats who have it to the final eight of the NCAA Villanova also rcceivt·s limited had the upper hand in the rivalry Tournament. help from freshmen llarold.Jcnscn, a with the Fighting Irish the past two But Villanova is fresh off three highly touted high school player seasons. straight wins in the Big East Con­from Trumbull, Conn., and Connally 
Digger Phelps' much improved ference, ineluding a major upset of Brown. a strong reboundcr out of team has the chance to end the Georgetown on the road. Orange, Tex. drought against Villanova tomorrow "They're similar to us," says While the Irish have a better afternoon when the clubs tangle at Phelps. "They're struggling to get record than Villanova, the 'Cats have the ACC (I p.m., NBC-TV). going. They had a great win at played a very difficult scht·dulc 
The Irish enter the cont test with a Georgetown so they're playing with which incllllkd games against Bos­9-5 record at the halfway point of a lot ofconfidence. ton Colkgc. Auburn. and at their season, but they have shown "When you win a key game, you Syracuse. steady progress over the past few start to move and play with con­The Villanova-Notre Dame rivalry games. The team's remammg fidence at home and on the road." has heated up ovt·r the past M'Vcral schedule includes several tough Villanova is led by Ed Pinckney, a seasons, partly due to some u>m­home games against the likes of 6-9 junior who contributed to the ments made by Phdps last season. Maryland, DePaul, Pittsburgh, and U.S. Gold Medal in the Pan-American Phelps had commented on the Marquette. games last summer. Pinckney, shoot­need for Villanova to play in 
Notre Dame has struggled ing 6j-pern·nt from the floor and Philadelphia's andt·nt Palcstra be­throughout the first half of the leading the 'Cus in s<:oring with a cause ofthat arena's tradit t ion wht·n season partly due to a lack ofleader­I'· I averagt·, has a goal ofplaying in it was announced that Villanova was 
ship. The Irish seemed to miss not the Olympic Games in Los Angeles. building a new arena on its suburban 
lllt" <>hst·rver/Paul Cif•n·lh 
just the shooting ability ofJohn Pax­t·ampus. Phelps also incensed Mas­
Joining Pinckney on tht· frontline 
son but also his leadership. simino wht·n he suggested that 
Since joining the Notre Dame basketball team on jan. 4, joe is Harold Pressley and Chuck Ever­
However, Tom Sluby has established Notre Dame could play North 
I/oward bas wme on to score 28 points in four games. Tomorrou• son.
himself as the team leader after Carolina on national TV should Vil­
afternoon in the ACC, be a11d his new teammates u•ill try to end a Pressley, a 6-7 sophomore, has im­
scoring SO points in two games on lanova not be abk to make the trip
drought against Vil/amJIIa. For more on tomorrow's game and proved greatly over last season and
the West Coast and according to down to a snowed-under Chapel
Hou•ard, see the related stories on Ibis page. is now Villanova's top reboundcr.
Phelps is "the guy we go to in clutch Hill.
He grabbed I 7 rebounds while
situations." But the annual games have been
scoring I 7 points against George­the backbone of the rivalry.
town. Everson, a 7-0 sophomore, has In 1980, Tracy Jackson hit a stepped into the starting lineup to
Unbeaten again 
desperation shot at the buzzer to help out Pinckney. 
give Notre Dame a 70-69 win after Villanova coach Rollie Massimin~> Villanova had made up a I'-pointhas shifted Dwayne McClain, a 6-6
Irish face off with St. Norbert 
deficit at the ACC. Two years ago.
junior, to the bench over the last Aaron Howard's baseline jumperthree games after the Wildcats lost with six seconds remaining gave theBy ED DOMANSKY in the St. Thomas series in Novem­with six goals and 14 assists. five straight, and the move has paid Wildcats a 48-46 win here. Last year. 
Sports Writer ber. He underwent arthroscopic sur­Freshman goaltender Tim off. McClain, a talented athlete who after Notre Dame led the highly­
gery before finals and is now back at Lukenda will be in the nets tonight. possesses a good left-handed shoot­
ranked 'Cats for most of the game inThe Notre Dame hockey team ha.~ full strength. He sports an impressive 1.89 goals ing touch, has adjusted to a sixth the Palestra, Gary McLain led a latenot played a gamt· in more than one Ricci dislocated his right shoulder against average. Sophomore Marc man role as swingman. 
surge to help Villanova take a 61-55month, but over the brt.'ak it still in the Dec. 9 contest with Lake Guay is the probable starter for Massimino also has made a move decision in a barn-burner.
managt·d to improve upon its al­Forest. "The shoulder feels pretty tomorrow night's game. He has a in the backcourt, where point guard "You can forget the records,"ready fine record. The icers now good," says Ricci. "It is still a little 2.50 goals against. 
Gary McLain has been placed on the assures Phelps. "It's a Villanova­hold a perfect 1.-\-0-0 mark after Notre Dame needs a victory
weak, but I'm going through bench in favor of the tandem of i.Jotrc Dame game. It will go rightbeing awarded a forfeit victory from tonight against the 4-10 Green
rehabilitation on weights. Hopefully Frank "Happy" Dobbs and Dwight down to the last minute."
St. Norben College. The game, Knights to break the school record
it won't bother me the rest of the 
played on Dec j, originally ended in for consecutive games without a
sea.o;on." 

a 3-.~ tic, but since no overtime wa.o; loss. The previous record was set
Three other players, all freshmen, 
played -a.o; is required by NCAA from December II, I968, toJanuary 
Howard sparks life 
have been lost because of academic 
rult-s -the host Green Knights 20, 1969.
problems. With the return ofEly and 
were forced to forfeit. A win or a tie in tonight's game
Ricci, left wing Tom Smith, center 
The same St. Norben team will be also will give this year's Irish posses­
into basketball team 
John Nickodemus, and defenseman 
at Notre Damt· tonight and tomor­sion ofthe record for the longest un­
Jim Hogan all will sit out the remain­
row to provide the opposition for beaten streak at home. The previous
der of this season. By PHIL WOLF oblige his coach. 
the streaking Irish leers a.~ Central record ofseven was set from January
Scoring should continue to Sports Writer "Whatever Coach tells me to do,"
States Collegiate tlock<.·y l..eague ac­9, 1969, toJanuary 20, 1969. 
provide little problem for the Irish, says Howard, "that's what I'm going
tion resumes. This year's squad already has set
who have scored 96 goals through Joe Howard rocks easily back and to try to do." 
When the two teams la.o;t met in new marks for consecutive victories
the first I 3 games. The top line of forth in his desk chair. He is wearing In fact, Howard is just happy to be 
December at Green Bay, aside from and for the longest winning streak at
seniors Adam Parsons and Mike a Liberty Bowl T-shirt, the only playing basketball. 
the 3-j tie ( m;w a win) in the second home. 
visible reminder that just three "I was pretty excited about it game of the series, the Irish, thanks Metzler and junior co-captain Brent "We're looking forward to playing weeks ago he was in Memphis with (joining the team) because it is to a four goal barrage in the final Chapman make up the top three on them," says sophomore defenseman the football team. something I always wanted to do,"period, silenced a scrappy St. Nor­the team scoring chart. Bob Thebeau. "Last time they tied us Now he is talking about his ex­Howard admits. "I've been thinkingbert squad for a 7-2 victory in the Chapman is the team leader with and they shouldn't have even come perience as the newest member of about it since my freshman year.
opening contest. 15 goals and 23 assists. Metzler and close." 
the basketball team. What I wanted to do was get es­Notre Dame head coach l.efty Parsons each have 26 points, on I 4 Both games begin at 7:30 p.m. 
In a surprise move just before the tablished in the books, first." 
Smith is looking forward to the start goals and 12 assists and I I goals and Notre Dame and St. Mary's students Liberty Bowl, Head Basketball In addition, Howard says that he of tht· sea.o;on's second half and I 5 assists, respectively. Sophomore are admitted free with their student Coach Digger Phelps asked Howard wanted to check things out with his hopes for continued success. defenseman Mark Benning is next I. D. cards. 
to join his team during its four-game family before making any decisions. 
"It will he.· nice to stan playing road trip over break. Phelps hoped "I wanted to make sure it was okayagain," Smith says. "After such a long that Howard would be able to spark with them (his family). I wanted to break, our players are anxious to get 

Hockey tentatively set to be 
some life into his team at the point sit down and talk with my mom and started again. We've been working guard position. pop." 
on conditioning and polishing up Indeed, in his first game with the Once everything was settled.
Division I Independent 
our fundamentals. With only five team on Jan. 6, Howard scored I 4 Howard was ready to join the bas­Ever since last season when it was announced that the Notredays to get it all back together, we've points to help lead the Irish past Ho­ketball team in Philadelphia. TheDame hockey program would operate on a club level for the 1983­been a little rushed; but everything ly Cross, 73-61. transition to playing with Phelps'84 season, players and fans alike hoped that it would someday regainseems to be working out. Being un­Howard has already scored 28 squad was easy, according toits varsity status. 
defeated and knowing that other points in his four games with the Howard, because he had alreadyIn all probability, these hopt:s will soon become reality as word isteams arc eager to knock you off will Irish and he is hitting a spectacular played either with or against most oftentatively out that the team will operate as a Division I Varsity Inde­provide extra incentiv<.·." 
77-percent from the floor. Phelps, the players on the team.
pendent in the I984-85 season.
Senior defenseman Tony Bonadio however, has more than scoring in "When I did finally get to play, itAlthough no scholarships will be awarded, returning the programechoes his coach's thoughts. 

mind for him. wasn't that much of a problem for to varsity status would enable the team to upgrade its schedule and"The break wa.o; nice because ''He's a good transition player, me, and Idon't think it was much ofaplay varsity opponents, who would otherwise not schedule a club­everybody is coming back with an which is what I like," Phelps says. problem for them to adjust to me be­level team. 
enthusia.~tic attitudt·," Bonadio 
"He's also good on reversals. The cause they already knew how 1 play, Possible opponents would include the Ivy League schools, ,theremarks. "Hopefully we'll get every­most important thing for him is that and I pretty much knew how theymilitary academies and some of the varsity teams on this year's
thing back together quickly and con­
once we reverse the ball, I want him play. I think that's why things wentschedule.
tinue playing tht· way we were." 
to penetrate and create. That, to me, as smoothly as they did."
The Faculty Board in Control ofAthletics is discussing the matter.
The break also provided time for is one of his strengths, and that's Joe Howard is also familiar withAccording to Associate Sports Information Director John Heisler,injuries to juniors Steve Ely and Rob what we're trying to get him to do."

final approval is expected within a month. 
see HOWARD, page 8

Ricci to heal. Ely injured his left knee Howard is more than happy to 






