JPW -page3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 89 the indcpcmknt ~tlu.knt ncw~papcr ~t-r\·ing notrt dame and ~aint mary·~ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1984 

SMC students upset over housing changes; petition Duggan today 
By LAUREEN WOLFE and THERESA GUARINO 
News Staff 
When hundreds of Saint Mary's women pick their rooms for 1984­85 this week. they will be forced to work around approximately 100 rooms which have been blocked off for freshmen. 
The class integration system, formulated a few years ago, has sparked controversy among next year's returning students. Room selection will be different from pre­vious years· selections because 26 rooms in LeMans, 33 rooms in Holy 
Cross and 58 rooms in McCandless Halls have been reserved for next year's freshmen class. 
Meanwhile. 163 rooms have been reserved for upperclassmen in Regina Hall, traditionally the fresh­man dorm. 
The Sophomore Class Council has formulated a petition which will be givt·n to John Duggan, College presi­dent, at an open meeting today at 4 
p.m. in LeMans lobby. The petition, written by sophomore Kristi Stathis, states. "we ...feel there was inade­quate opportunity for student input in the decision-making process. Fur­thermore .. .is is unfair to all classes that the specific effects of the housing changes were never an­nounced." 
This year's freshmen and sopho­mores are the classes most affected by room changes. Many freshmen face living in Regina again next year, while next year's juniors are finding Holy Cross and LeMans, their tradi­tional "territory" harder to come by. A bad lottery number could send a junior or senior to McCandless. 
The petition, approximately ten pages long, will be given to Duggan by the sophomore class officers and a group of students who had also made an appointment with him. The officers had requested a meeting with Duggan at "the first possible opportunity" on Friday and were given an appointment at tomorrow at 4 p.m. Later, another group of 
sophomores also asked for an ap­pointment and were given today at 4 
p.m. Class officers decided to combine the two groups. and invited all sophomores to gather in the LeMans lobby today. 
Next year's seniors will not be as affected by housing changes be­cause they pick rooms before any other cla~s. However, many tradi­tionally senior rooms are also blocked offfor freshmen and sopho­mores. Kari Casey, a junior, said, "It (the blocking off) bugs me be­cause they are blocking off such good rooms." Hoping for a double in LeMans, Michele Melnick claimed, "'Our class wasn't supposed to be af­fected and it seems that the rooms we would have picked were blocked off. We should have been able to pick our rooms first." 
Residence Life Commissioner Pat Rissmeyer feels she has tried her best to integrate the students evenly in the dorms. Rissmeyer said the RAs discussed the issue with their sec­tions. Each hall director then worked with Rissmeyer to select the freshmen rooms that would least likely be chosen by upperclassmen. 
The change in room selection has not upset all juniors. After viewing the designated doubles, Kathleen Hennessy said, "It doesn't affect me because there are nicer doubles available that have not been blocked off for freshmen." Commenting on the entire integration system,Joanie Giblin stated,"I'm not really opposed to it. Integration is impor­tant, but some freshmen may not be able to handle it." 
However, many students aren't taking the changes quite so well. Sophomore Ann Murphy, said. "because of these changes, I may end up living in M:Candless as a junior, when I had always expected to live in the dorm of my choice as an upperclassman." 
Sophomore officers are hoping that Duggan will reconsider his posi­tion. But, many students aren't expecting a change in housing · policy at this late date. 

Presidential candidates are a common sight in New Hampshire during February of election years, but this Cocord sculptor decided to make them permanent. Unfortunately, Emile Birch's 
. 


Shortage of RA applicants at SMC forces resumption of interviews 
By LYNN CROWELL 
News Staff 
Although the selection of Saint Mary's 1984-85 resident assistants was made last Friday, there are still two positions open in McCandless and LeMans. The number of R.A. ap­plicants was markedly decreased this year in comparison to previous years. 
Out ofthe 50 R.A.s needed at Saint Mary's next year, only 48 have been chosen. Applications have been re­opened to fill the remaining posi­tions. "We'd like to have those places f t illed by the fifth or sixth of March. The first spring training ses­sion is on March lOth, and we'd like all of next year's R.A.s to be there," said Lisa Schulte, Holy Cross hall director. "Anyone of sophomore or junior class standing can still apply." 

Reagan's ex-campaign manager criticizes current primary system 

By MARY HEALY 
Assistant News Editor 
The United States' current system ofconducting presidential primaries is "very bad" because it puts too much power in the hands of the press, accord­ing to Ronald Reagan's former campaign manager John Sears. 
In a Mock Convention-sponsored lecture Satur­
day. "Nominating a President: 1980's Style," Sears 
explained how the primary system has changed 
over the years, taking power out of the hands of 
party leaders and giving it to the media. 
Formerly. Sears said, "nominations were the privileged matter of party leaders." and the issue wasn't decided until after balloting took place. In 1968, because of a fear of the power of party bosses, a broader system was devised where people could vote for nominees. But many people are unfamiliar with the candidates, and to find out about them, Sears said, "obviously people must look somewhere, and the most obvious place is the media . . . . Now where is the power? It is the combined radio, television and newsprint press." 

The problem, said Sears, is that media "happens to give advice without meaning to." Sears said, "I think this is a very bad thing, not because the press has this power but because they don't want the responsibility for it." 
The press limits the field early in an election by playing up the front line candidates and ignoring others, according to Sears. Referring to the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire primary. he said, "the first few events give irresistible momentum leading to a winner." Now that the Iowa caucuses have been moved closer to the others, Sears said "If you lose Iowa, you can't recover." People are told who is ahead every day by the media, until the others lose most of the support they had. Sears 
believes, "Ifyou wanted to cut down the influence 
of the media, the best thing is to eliminate half of 
the primaries." 
Another problem with the primary system, said 
Sears, is most people don't bother to participate, 
and in the absence of a broad middle influence, 

see SEARS page 4 
Present RA.s are also being asked to encourage those they think would be good candidates. "That's really unusual", said Molly Baker, an R.A. in McCandless. "I don't think we've ever been told to seek out can­didates before." 
Neither Schulte nor Baker knew why applications were down this year. "We're taking a random survey during room picks to see what the students think," said Schulte, who speculated the time that applica­tions were taken -from as early as Nov. 16th to just before Christmas break -"may have been too early for students to decide ifthey wanted to be an R.A. for next year or not." 
The selection of R.A.s will be as usual. Candidates will fill out an ap­plication, write an essay, provide three letters of recommendation, and go through two interviews. The interviews are held by a resident director and four present resident assistants. 
"We're looking for someone who has the time, creativity, enthusiasm, ability to work with people, and the ability to communicate. Com­munication is very important," Schulte remarked. Added Baker, "What we look for most is a serious interest and enthusiasm. You can tell right away ifthey knciw what they're getting into." 
After each interview, the resident director and assistants evaluate each applicant, rank them, and put the evaluation with the recommenda­tions back into a file. "The hall direc­tors look at the files. and place the candidates as to their needs, strengths, and the needs of the par­
ticular halls," said Schulte. "We ask them to list their top two choices of halls, and they're usually placed in one of their choices. If they want to be with upper classmen, however. and their strength lies in working with freshmen, they will probably be placed with freshmen." 


New camera system watches library lounge 
By SHEILA KANEHANN 
News Staff 

It's 1984 and "Big Sister" has crept her way into the Cushwa-Leighton Library. A new surveillance camera system is now in operation in the after-hours study lounge in the base­ment ofthe library. 
The system, installed by Electronic Service Company of South Bend, uses two small cameras at ceiling level. Prior to their installa­tion, the lounge was patrolled by security to insure that furniture is kept intact, and a quiet atmosphere is maintained for studying. The two cameras in operation do the same fob by using monitors located in the security hut, which are watched by security personnel. Sr. Bernice Hol­lenhorst, director at Cushwa -Leighton insists "security is the main reason" for the new system which allows for better surveillance of students using the lounge. According to Bob Foldesi. director of Personnel, "the mechanical devices provide better, more eftl­cient security." 
At times during the semester the after-hours lounge is used by many students, and at other times it is empty. Often. before the installation of the new system. a security officer would be on duty in the lounge with no students there. The new system. according to Foldesi,"will not be a profit the first year. Money is not a big factor. but the security of the women using the after-hours lounge 
is." 
The opinion expressed by most stu-. dents seems to be that the cameras go unnoticed and they are less aware of them than of the security person­nel. 

Monday, February 20, 1984 -page 2
The Observer 

In Brief Fitting the cure to the illness 
The Advance Enrollment Card 
returning student~ last week. must he returned with a S50 depo~it hy March ""'. The canis should he turned in to Student Accounts, I02 Administration Building, or maih:d through the United States Postal Servin· to P.O. Box T, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. A S I 0 late fee will he chargl·d if the cards arc not completed hy March 7. Addition­
ally, <:ourse selection materials from the Registrar's Office for next semester will he withheld and requests for on-campus housing will not hl· honored until the card is received. -The Observer 
Senate Democrats plan to grillWhite House 
Counsdor Edwin Meese Ill about allegations of political cronyism, his personal finances and his stand on civil liberties when he testifies hdore Congress on his nomination as attorney general. Although Meesl·'s strict law-and-order stance may ultimately propel the con­firmation of Prt:sident Reagan's aide through the Republican-run Senate, Sen. lloward Metzenhaum, D-Ohio, charges Meese's record is "an example of government hy political cronyism" and plans to pkk a fight. Democratic members ofthe SenateJudiciary Committee have parceh:d out areas of Meese's background for investigation in prl·paration for the March 1-2 hearings. Metzenhaum has had his staff looking into Meese's finances ever since he was appointed by Presi­dent Reagan jan. 23 to replace William French Smith. -AP 
The French government reversed itself 

y<:sterday and agrn·d to talk with striking truck drivns in an effort to end a four-day highway blockade that has snarled traffic across the country and sparked violent confrontations between truckers and motorists. In re~ponse, truckers lifted blockades in 16 of France's.96 <h:partments, thl· National flighway Information Agency said last night. That kft blockades still up in 41 departments -or ad­ministrative districts. -AP 
When twO holdup men entered his Kansas City liquor store Ray Verhanic says his first thought was of his friend Wanda Nothnagel shot to death on the tloor of her dress shop. His next thought was of his blue-steel revolver. Verbank used that gun and another to fire eight bullets into 21-ycar-old Nathaniel Bell, au­thorities said. Verhanic believes he acted reasonably to protect his life. Witnesses, however, say they saw Verbanic methodically shoot into a motionless body lying in the store's parking lot on the after­noon of Jan. 5. Apparently no one except Verbank saw a second robber. Thl· district attorney called for a coroner's inquest. The 
coronl·r's jury concluded the fatal shot, fired inside the store, was justilkJ, howevt.·r the shots after, wer<: not -AP 
Israeli warplanes bombed and strareu rehel­
hdd positions on the coast and in the Syrian-controlled central mountain~ yesterday, whik radio rl·ports said Lebanese troops tintght off a thrlT-pronged Drusl· allack at Souk el-Gharh. The li.S. Marines wl·re hdng transft:rred out of Beirut to ships off thl· coast, pn·silkntial ad\'iser Robert Mcl'arlane said in New York, and the Italian contingl·nt of the Multinational Peacekeeping Force began 1110\'ing its l'<(Uipmenl to freighters in preparation for withdrawal of moM of thl· I,-tOO mt·n starting today. The military command in Tel A\·i\· said thl' targt'ts of its air raids were Pakstinian guerrilla bases 
•war Damour. 12 miles south of Beirut along the Mediterranl.'an coast, :md at Bhamdoun and I lam mana . -AP 

Weather 
Becoming partly cloudy today. Breezy, and 
high in the uppn 50s. Fair and <:ool tonight. Low around .'W. Partly sunny and mild tomorrow. lligh in the low 40s. -AP 

rnJ(/UclitJn CtJilSUlttlll( ........ SIC:Vl' Fosrc:r
The Observer 
Design Editor................................ Troy lUi~ Design Assisttmt..................... Cheryl Pilon Layout Staff... Claire. Ann, Kathleen, ami
The Observer (I'SPS ~99 l-4000) ;. 
l.t•V

puhlislwd Monda)· throuKh friday and 
Typesett<'TS ..................... Mil'helle and T<·d
on hom(. (ouchaJI .Saturdays, c:xct·pt 
Neu•s Edilor.............................. Tom Mowll'
durinK t•xam and vacation pt·riod!'t. The 
Cop}' l:'dilor ............................ Tt·ss Gmtrino Sports Copy Editor.................. Ed Konradr 
Obsr.ver Is puhlished hy th<· studen!S of the llnivt·rsily of Notre nanu-and Saint Marv's (:ollc:l(t: Subs<:riptions may ht· 
Vieu•poi1lt LtiJ'OUt ................ John Menndl f'eatures Copy Editor.............)erry YounK
pur<·hased for H~ per year ( SI~ pn 
Features LaJ•out ........................ Mary Healy
"'C:ffit.'stt·r) by wrlling The Obsenrer, 
N/J Da1• Editor............................. Earl Raker
P.O. llox Q. Notre Oame.lndiana ·16~~6. Thr Observrr is a mt·ml>l'r ofThe As­
.\'MC Day Editor........................Jody Radler !K>Cialrd Press. All reproduction ri)!hts 
Ad Design............................ Mary EasterdaY are reserved. 
Photographer.......................... Paul Cifardli 
Rumors have not run so rampant on the Notre Dame campus since talk of admitting women to the Univer­sity. Now heresay has it that ND is going dry -at least for those under 21. 
One does not down a bottle ofcough sytup to relieve a fever -any old wife could tell you that. In the same manner, a university does not prohibit all under-21­year-olds from drinking to solve a so called raging drink­ing problem. The "problem" will continue, and possibly 
worsen. 
Because no official policy has been released to the students, one can only speculate as to the changes such a policy would demand. Students may have to go even further underground than their hall's basement party room ifthey wish to hold a traditional ND social gather­ing. Happy hours could adopt an melancholy ai r. The only tailgaters on Green Field might be hosted by men in green plaid pants, waving pennants. 
But chances arc, students will still drink in their rooms. If they have to put locks on their refrigerators or hide bottles in dresser drawers, a 21-campus policy will probably not inhibit a large majority of the stu­dents under 21 years old. 
At this point, one of the best reasons a student can determine for a han on al­cohol for those under 21, is to curb the epidemic drink­ing problem on campus along with the destructive­ness that invariably accom­panies such a problem. It is responsible and admirable of the administration to want to help those students who have a "drinking problem" and those affected by their destructiveness. But answer. 
The person to worry about is not the one, in a social atmosphere, among many people (a percentage of whom are not inebriated) who perchance has too much to drink. Rather it is the one who returns to his ..or her room to "do some shots." It is that person who is more likely suffering from alcoholism. or a less definable drinking problem. He or she is of more danger to him­selfand others and property. 
If rumor becomes policy, this minority of students will blend in with all of the students who still want to enjoy a drink now and then, but cannot do so in public at an on-campus party or happy hour. How can RAs or rectors then differentiate between the social drinker, forced into his room, and the real "problem students" who the lhiversity is trying to cure in the first place? Without personal relationships with every member of the section or dorm, this is virtually impossible. 
Sarah Hamilton 
0

Features Editor 
-,-n-s-id_e_M_o_n_d_ay___ ­
... 
Perhaps the administration has other reasons for stopping the alcohol flow on campus. Perhaps there are appendages co the rumored 21 campus policy that u•ill help those that really need it. Who knows? Definitely not the students. All they hear is gossip. 
Sooner, but probably later, an official alcohol policy will be set. Rumor has it the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees agreed to a 21 campus at their recent Florida meeting, but it cannot be written in Du 
Lac until the entire Board votes on it. Once a policy is set, the administration will try its best to explain that policy to the students. Ifthat policy and explanation do not seem rational and ef­fective in dealing with the problem, students should step out of their apathetic shoes and not keep quiet about it. 
Late last semester, one Sunday afternoon, a banner hung outside a fourth floor Farley window. It was an at­tempt to wake up the stu­dents to the fact the administration was trying to rob them ofbeer, pizza and a free press. That banner, or any like it, have not been seen on campus since then. 

RA's) eye also. This is not to say the problem will vanish. 
The Observer is as concerned about thisproblem as many students are. In an attempt to inform all about the issue, The Observeris publishing a fourpart series ofarticles concerning the role ofalcohol on campus starting tomorrow. 

Observer note 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

a 21-campus is not the 
COUNSELINE 
A service to the NO communlty 
§
~ 
239·7793 HOURS: 4-tap,.-, Mon. Thurs. 
§ 
Counselme', a free. confidential telephone servace that offers 
~ 

professaonally taped matenals that cover a w1de vanP~~.~.'..~.tudent concerns 
~ 
§ 
TAPE NO TITLE 1 FrtendShlp Bu1ldtnQ 7 Dealing w•lh Conslrucllve CrtiiCtsm 
§ 
fJ Dealing w1lh Anger 
~ 
9 Unders1anQ1no Je•lousy ana How 
to Oeat ._,,, 11 
§
10 How lo Sa'!' ··NO· 
16 Becommo Open 10 04tlers 18 Oaltn'iJ Slolls 
~ 

~...o-JC'"'..r~..A:OQ""..r.,.co.-...c--~..r~..r~~ 
~ How do YOU feel about DULAC? ~ 
8 Here's your chance to express ~ your views concerning 8 
anything in DuLac ~ 
~ 

DULAC REVIEW FORUM ~ §
Tuesday, Feb. 21 § 127 Nieuwland Science Bldg. § 8:00p.m. ~ 
JO Anx.rty •nd Pon•I:JIIII Ways fo Cooe 
Wlfhll l2 Howlo Dea1w11h Lonhn~ss 33 How to Handle F..,, 
J5 8wkt1no Sttii·EsiHm & Conll"-nce 37 Reta.-•no E"erc1s•s 38 Cop•no w1th Slnrss 39 Fe~Jeo Se• Role· 
Chtmges o~na Sires~ ~ Learn1no lo Accept Y'ouraell 61 What IS Therapy & How to Use II 83 How to Cope w11t: a Broken 
Relat•on&Pllp 85 u.,aerstandmg G11el 90 Hetp.ng 1 Fr1end 160 Earlv stgns of an Alcohol flroblem 161 Responstble Oec1110ns Aboul 
Drr"*mg 
402 Selt-Asserltverw>s:s 431 Wha11s Depress•on 432 t1ow 10 Deal Wllh Depress1on 433 DepreSSIOn as a L1fe S1v1e 478 Becommg Independent from Parem~ 41'9 Oeahng w11~ Alcoholte Parenls 491 Su1c1dal Crisis 492 Recogn•t•"1Q Su•ctdal PoleniJal 
mOthers 493 Help1ng Som~ ~~_a SutCtdal Cnats 
Counaallnala a completely anonymou1 HFYtCe offered by lhe Coun..llng a Psychological S.rvlcea Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239·7337 between9-5 
--CLIP AND SAVE·· 








L__~ ~~:-:;;.~;;;:.~;~~;~~~...J 

-----·-·~~-~~--~-------------------------­
The Observer Monday, February 20, 1984 -page 3 

junior Parents' Weekend was an enjoyable ex­perience for most involved. Dinner entertain­ment included violins, below, although young Brigette Zimmerman, upper left, seems to have found her own entertainment. The Shenanigans, left, performed on Saturday afternoon in Wash­ington Hall. Other events during the weekend in­cluded a mixer at Pangborn, where parents Bo BroemmelandGenePodeatskigot togetherovera 
beer. Atbrunch, Notre Dame alumnusRockyBlier gave an inspiring talk to the visitors before they left for home andjuniors returned to their usual work. 

------------·-··-------­The Observer Monday, February 20, 1984 -page 4 
Congressman speaks on immigration policy 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTTI 
Seu·s Staff 
( :ongrcssman Romano .\lazzoli 
( 1>-KY) appt·arnl at thl' l.aw St·hool 
Friday and spokt· to stutknts of his 
l'fti1rh 10 kgislatt· rdimll in thl' nlr­
rt·nt immigration polin 
lntroducnl a' a "staundl suppor­
lt-r of :-.Jotrt· l>amc and rhc :'l;otrt· 
l>;ulll' Law ~dwol." .\t;vzoli is a 
graduatl' of '-lot rc I>ame and is a 
nwm ht·r of till' .-\th iso n Board oti hl' 
White Cl'ntt·~. -an organization 
\\ilhin tht· 1.;1\\ Sthool promoting 
'cholarship and guc't knun·s. 
Tht· topic ol his prt·st'IHation 
lclcu,nl largeh (Ill his work in thl' 
.ludiciar\' C.ommilltT. stTking a solu­
tion to tht· nation·, immigration and 
•wturali/;Hion dilt·mm.l'. 
\l.tuoli and St·n;ttor AI Simpson of 
\\ 1oming han· t·ollahoralt'll to 
prodUr.T thl' "Simpson .\lauoli Bill." 
·,, hich t·alls for major rt·,·ision ofcur­
rl'lll immigration and naturalization 
l;m.s. 
<>nl' major 'tl'p the proposition tal-l'.' is till' int rodun ion of "l'lnployl'r santt ion,." Tht·st· 'aIll'· lion' impost· lwan· fine., on h usillt'SSl'' t·mplodllj.( ilkgal \\ orl-t-r' in an dlc1rt to rt·wrn joh op­portunitit-s in .-\merit·an indusrn to Anwritan lahon·r,. 
Support and rl',istallt'l' to t'lllpi<ll t·r 'aJKtions halT htTil ''rong on hot h sidt·, On olll' sidt·. 
Amt-ric;m labor groups arl' in grl'al 'upport ol s;Ull'lions. ami on thl' other. ethnic groups -t·.,pedall)· tht· llispanit· <.onft-rl'lllT -and husint·ss groups ,ts wdl. han· l'Xprt·sst'll strong uunplaints against tht· sannions. 
Tlw husim·ss groups daim thl'l arl' ht·ing punishnl tl1r sonwthing 

Sears 
continuedfrom page I 
pt·oplt-don't hothl'r to participatt·. and in tht· ah,t·ntT of a hroadmiddk mtlut·n<T. pl'opll' on thl' far kft and right bn·omt· nHJl'h nwn· impor· tant. 
This imh;tl;uHT. 'aid Sl'ars. i~ \\ h;ll lnl in 19-.! to till' no111111ation of ( ot·orgt· .\ld oiiH'rll. a "hlal'k horsl' ctndidatl'... Sl'ar' ~aid t ht· samt· mist.tkt· occurrl'd 111 I<)-(> 11 ith tht· nomination ol .Jillllll\ < .mn. <>I tht· Dt·monatk p.trt\ ~l'.1rs s;1id. ·It has tht· dt·ar ahilit1 Ito U1111pl'l \'Oil'S out of pl'opk "ho tl• on't nnl'ssarih gt·t llHKh out olthl'lll · 
Sl'.trs' own stratt'g\ is to "ld~ tht· prt·ss 11 hat lt''\J'l'd to do. and ho11 .. '>l'ar~ "a' camp.ugn m.lllagt·r li1r lk.tgan in I•J-C> .md I•JHO as 11 dl .l~ l''\t't·utin· d1rntor lor :'l.:i:o..on·~ l'.llll· 
tht· go\'ernment b respon~ihk ti1r. ~aid .\lazzoli. 
Anothn is~ut· which the hill propost·~ w tlt-al strongly with is the power of the Immigration Scr\'ic.:t'. Currently. the Scn·itT handles all immigration maut·rs as well as asylum cast·s. :\lazzoli h:ds tht'Sl' two should not ht· grouped under a ~ingk roof 
"\\.t· 11 ant f(J form a new immigra­1ion hoard compriscd of law judges." stid \lazzoli. "which will in­"JI;nt· tht·st· ( as\'lum) judgl'lllt·nts anti base them on tans rather than lorl'ign polin· mixed with facts." 
Tht· hill also plans to change tht· status of ti1rl'ign stutlt·nts. hoping 10 l'ase thl' ··brain drain" (U otht-r UIUJHrit·s ctusetl h1 the loss of thl'ir t'llucatt'll minds to mort· de\'dopt·tl countrit·s. It 11ould rt·quire stutll'IHS to rl'tufll 10 tlwir own countrit·s to work tt1r a pt·riod of two ~Tars hdort· tht·\' could St't'k re;Jdjustmt·nt l'lst·wht·rt·. 'aid .\lazzoli. 
<)nt· thing the hill tlot·s not in­dudl' is a point systl'lll geared to n·alualt' indi\'iduab stTking im­migration. Thi, t'\'aluation awards points to an indi\'idual hasnl on 'kills. !;unih tit·s. and othn tans \\ hich 11 ould Ill' positin· contrihu­tions to the countn in which thl' pt·rson dt·sirt·s to lin· .\lazzoli said this was not a Ulll,itkration. 
"It makl's alot of 't'llSt'. ;md it's in­triguing and ,.uranin·." s.1id .\laz­/oli. "hut l'thnit· groups ft-d \'ery 'trough· that ;t point s\·stt'lll would t·xdlllk tht·mtoo mud1... "Almost en·n· organint ion is f( 1r and against "lmt· part ofthl' hilL" \lu.zoli notnl. lit-calll'd this fan both thl' gt·nious and tht· fall of the hill. It indudt·s t'\'ernllle. hut it I;Kks a full\· t·om­miunl blind supportt-r nt·cessan· to push a hill likt· this through. 
paigns. I k hro!-t· \\ ith lkagan im­mediatl'h atin thl' I'JHO :'l;l'w Hampshire priman in a "mutual dt't'hion" on·r "intt·rnal situations." Sc1rs is currl'nth "trYing not to hl' inl'ol\'l'd" hut "ould likt· to hl'. in tht· I'JHH l'it't'tions. lk hl'lit-ITS lkagan \\ill \\in again this \Tar. 
Sl'ars. a I<)(,() :\:otn· Daml' graduatt'. t·njoinnl 'tudt'llls to gl'l 
lkctust· of n1mputl'r t~Jilurl'. tht· l·rida1 ston on tht· possihk dqurturt· of :'l.:otrt· Daml' thl'ology prukssor St.lllkl llaut·r\1 ;ts omilll'd tht· foil< I\\ ing. 
<l1w prohkm that may han· lnl ll.tut·r\\ a~. a \ll'thodist. to consitkr k;t,·ing :'l.:otrl' Danll' h what hl' c1lls an incrl'asl'd t·mphasis on ( :atholic thl'11log1 at thl' l'Xpl'llSl' of tTUillt'lli­tal rht·ologl. 
In .111 intt·n·icw with tht· Sational ( atbolic Regisll'r. Ihl'ology tit-part· 


,.... 
; 
Druse muses 
1bis Oruze militiaman is taking adt•tmtage of a lull in the fighting to gmiJ some lunch. His sect bas drit'e/1 most Christians au·arfrom the coastal bighll'll)' south oflkimt..Hemllt'hile, the fighting 
in\'ol\'l'd in politil·s through such t·n·nr~ as the .\lock COil\'t'lltion. he­CILISl' lll'W idl'a~ arc ll<T<kd. "Politics suffl-rs markt·tll\' undt'r our systl'lll from your lack of ;tttl'ntion," 
ht· said. St·ars said he partit:ipatnl in tht· I 960 .\lock Con\'cntion. and "mam· things I it'arnnl \\Tr<· things that didn't chang<·." 


Hauerwas correction 
ml'nt chairman Father Richard .\ldlril'll w;J~ quoted as saying. "I hl'lit·n· that what I inht-ritnl w;1s rapidlY htTomin~ a non­dl'nominational departmt·nt. . I han· heennitit:ilnl from tht· it'ft ti>r 1 rYing to makt· this a Catholic tkpartmt·nt. to rt·coiTr the Catholic tradition hl'rl'.. . If tht· Catholic charactl'r of tht· tkpartnlt'nt is not t·mphasi/t'd. then n111'rc not going to takl' a~ st·riously as you should thl' ma~tn·~ k\'l'l pro~rams." 


Applications for 
SENIOR BAR MANAGERS 
are now available at 

Student Activities. 
Applications must be completedand returned by FRIDAY, FEBRUARY24. 
APPhoto 

armmd the capital bas spread to the rest of the country. as Israeli u•arplanes attacked S)•rian­b('[dpositions iii Central Lebanon and Christians and Moslemsfought in the South. 
consultants to Multinational firms seek qualified mdivlduals w•th language and area expertise on foreign markets. OUr clients prefer loretgn natiOnals with aovanced deQrees from American Urnver· SIIJeS. Vcsa restrictions might not apply to some of the available projects Part-time and tul-bme ass1gnments available. Fee Pa1ll 
Senll resume or request lor applicatiOn torm to 
Swenson, Crawford &Paine :·~.
, ",·\
Dept B-33 
P 0. Box A3629 

Ch1cago. l!hnois 60690 
"THE CHOSEN" by Chaim Potok 
1he



Chosen 

Released b•,• Twentieth Century-Fox Produced by ~die and Ely Landau Directed by Jt remy Paul Kagan Starring: Maah 1ilian Schell, Rod Steiger, Barry Miller, Robby Benson, Val Avery 

Color Rated P \ Distributed by Films Incorporated 
FILMS INCORPORATED 
Engineering Auditorium Feb. 20 7,9,11 p.m. $1,,,, 
v1rn'1m II•· ·l 

Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival 
Monday, February 20, 1984 -page 5
View"Qoint 
Vastly increasing our insecurity 
Editor's note: This is the last in a series ofar­ticles examining the logic of a nuclear freeze. 
The goal ofimproving missile accuracy is to he able to destroy the enemy's nuclear weapons. Accuracy is essential to achieve this goal. In order to destroy a land-based ICBM stored deep underground in a reinforced con-
RandyFahs 
Monday analysis 
crete silo, it is necessary to come close to a direct hit even with a warhead many times the power ofa Hiroshima bomb. 
Primarily through increasing accuracy, the United States, between 1970 and the early 1980s raised from less than 20 percent to more than 70 percent the probability that its Minuteman III ICBMs could destroy blast­resistant targets with a single shot. New weapon systems are expected to raise this probability to close to 100 percent. 
This incredible accuracy, which makes· it possible to destroy the other side's nuclear weapons from vast distances, is bringing a radical change in the military strategy of the nuclear superpowers. 
This strategy, called "counterforce," means planning for a first strike. The enemy's nuclear weapons can only be destroyed if they are hit in their launchers. Counterforce strategy, planning to hit first, is made possible and even necessary by highly accurate delivery sys­tems. 
Accuracy does not improve the deterrent effect of nuclear weapons. On the contrary, it means a departure from deterrent strategy. Deterrence does not require first-strike capability. It needs only the abilty to retaliate in response to an attack. For retaliation, hit­ting back second in revenge for having been hit first, accuracy is not necessary. There is no sense in developing accuracy for hitting tar­gets which are not there. 
The dangers we have faced while living un­der a strategy of deterrence have been immense. The new counterforce strategy retains all of those dangers, and adds a worse threat. 
It is a very grave threat when nuclear war can begin as a result ofsome unintentional or irrational act. As the shift from deterrence to counterforce strategy takes place, this threat remains undiminished, and even increases as the number ofweapons increase. But the dan­ger is far greater when nuclear war can begin as the result ofan intentional act and even, in a perverse way, as a rational act. 
With counterforce strategy growing out of highly accurate weapon systems, it becomes a rational necessity for those who control nuclear weapons to plan for the possibility ofa first strike. 
Indeed, in every crisis situation between the superpowers the logic of those highly ac­curate weapons will force each side to fear and even to anticipate a first strike by the other side. 
Ifeither side fears destruction ofsome large portion of its nuclear arsenal, it will want to launch its weapons before they are destroyed, and the other side will want to destroy those weapons before they are launched. Given the desperately fearful situation that accurate weapons create, nuclear war as an intentional act, and even as a rational act, will become not only possible, but almost inevitable. 

The Pershing II missiles in Europe are the first of the new generation of super-accurate weapons to be operational. They will be able to destroy nuclear weapons in the western Soviet Union in six to eight minutes. 
The Soviets say they will respond by install­ing a launch-on-warning system. When their radar and computer systems identify an incoming attack, they will automatically launch a counter-attack in order to avoid destruction of their weapons. 
This means the safety of people on our side will depend upon the reliability of Soviet radar and computer systems. Our side's more advanced systems have made numerous er­rors, and some have taken six or more minutes to correct. 
Can we realistically expect that Pershing II missiles will increase our security when they stimulate a launch-on-warning response? 



Lebanon: a host of unlearned lessons 
Presidential candidate George McGovern is the American political figure who had the best assessment of the situation in Lebanon: "I don't know that there has to be an American solution to that problem. We've fallen into the 
George Crowell 
Guest columnist 
pattern of thinking there has to be. Maybe there isn't one." 
President Reagan is no different from his recent predecessors in trying to impose American-made solutions to problems our government does not fully understand. If the 
U.S. State Department clearly understood the regional complexities in many areas of the world, it would conclude that not all could be solved by U.S. might. 
In other words, solutions which are in the best interest of this country might not be beneficial to nations such as Lebanon. In fact, our meddling might even make matters worse. 
The lessons which have gone unlearned in Lebanon were ignored in such places as Viet­nam, Iran, Guatemala and El Salvador. These developing nations also were experiencing deeply-rooted internal turmoil. 
America was a latecomer in each situation, and made hasty decisions about which faction to support. We committed ourselves to a local leader with tons ofmilitary machinery and, in some cases, even direct intervention by U.S. personn;el. 
We failed to understand that civil wars are not necessarily a matter for East-West super­power intervention. We failed to realize that our handpicked leaders might not be the most popular (or even the most benevolent) in the nation. We failed to see that U.S. military power will not hold up puppet leaders and tip the balance in our favor. 
In many cases, U.S. force actually worsened the situation. And perhaps the most costly mistake ofall was ourgovernment's desire to hold on to unviable policies, even when it was time to save face. 
With all this experience in foreign policy foul-ups, it is surprising that we made every single one of these mistakes in Lebanon. The Lebanese nation is made up of sixteen dif­ferent religious communities vying for con­trol. Their only allegiances to the U.S. or the U.S.S.R's proxy Syria comes when they need help inflictiing damage on one of the other competing groups. 
Amin Gemayel is a member of one of the radical competing groups, the Christian Phalangists. He is not a moderate who is wil­ling to compromise and work with the other groups. His widespread electoral support was due largely to the assassination ofhis brother. With so much killing, the passage oftime, and his own unwillingness to act in concert with other groups, Gemayel has lost nearly all ofhis power and support. 
U.S. military might cannot hold him ·in power. The American trained Lebanese a:rmy has been the victim of desertion and embarassing defeats at the hands of local militias. To his countrymen, Gemayel looks more and more like a Western puppet. 

The U.S. cannot solve Lebanon's problems, yet it plunged right into the quagmire. The Marine contingent has, from the very begin­ning, had a role which is largely underfined. Their redeployment offi;hore signals the im­minent collapse of the Gemayel government and U.S. impotency in bringing the struggle to a swift and peaceful end. 
In the future, the United States must remember that it cannot shape the face ofthe world in its image. The United States can have a beneficial effect as mediator and peacekeeper, but only when the groups in­volved have a basis for negotiation. Our troups can be effective peacekeepers only when they act as a buffer between sides who are willing to stop firing at each other. 
Nations have their own characteristics and priorites which might be radically different from our own. Ifour involvement fails to take this into account, we will likely contribute to the conflict, and possibly cause a complete collapse. 


Campus comments: Should the Notre Dame campus be dry? 
Photos by Thorn Bradley 

Coming from a dry "era," students I believe NO should be a dry Part of the responsibility of a young We feel very strongly that the Twenty five years ago, NO was the drank illegally both on and off campus, as I responded in the ques­adult is learning selfcontrol. Alcohol campus should not be dry since it wettest dry campus anyone could campus. Prohibiting drinking on tionnaire. Liquor gets in the way of is a part of life and the sooner a would drive students to off-campus find. In my visits through the years I campus may force students to go off young people at a stage in their lives young person accepts the respon­parties and bars. The combination of found the drinking on campus was campus, perhaps causing accidents that should need no chemical sibility the better. It should be alcohol and driving is dangerous. accepted, and it was a step in the and breaking state laws. Where stimulation. available under certain control and right direction. A wet campus is a there's a will, there's a way. restrictions. happy campus. 
W. Bonczek '56 MaryB.Johnson J.T.Unnen A. Marx ..L Harold B. Augustine '59 


EditorialBoard  DepartmentManagers  
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic  
P. 0. BoxQ,NotreDame,IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor.......-................Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­ Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn  Cfmtroller...............................................Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide  Adt•ertising Manager ........................_Jeanie Poole  
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­ NewsEditor....................................Mark Worscheh  Circulation Manager...........  ...... Mark Miotto  
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa  Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski  Srstems Manager...  . .................. Ke"in Williams  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present  Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan  
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community. and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Viewpoint Editor..............................•.Keith Picher Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton  Founded November 3, 1966  
Photo Editor........................................_..Scott Bower  



Showcase 
Monday, February 20, 1984 -page 6 
A 'mind trip' in moder
Sonte fantous quotes the Notre Dante way 
by Marc Ramirez 
features staffwriter 
N
otre Dame is supposnlly the producer ofgreat minds. You'd 
havt· to guess that over the years a graduate or two has said 
.~omt·rhing that the puhlic took to heart, that the press got hold of 
and put into print. that claimed its place among the great quotations 
ofalltimt·. 

And pt·rhaps among us today there are a few individuals who will go on to utter words that willlivt· forever on record, immortal words dt·stiJwd to ht· memorized hy grade-school children someday.just look a! till' Jlt'opk living around you. 
(>kay, well, mayhe not. 
But why is it so inconceivable to us, then? Simple. This is Notre Dame, a world ofits own -different from any other place in the galaxy. 
And it dot·sstrange things to people. 
Imagine if all the peopk who tlrst hlahhed all those wonderful phrases which you were forcl'd to remember in your earlier years, had attt'lllkd Notre Dame. Thdr quotl's might not have been as memorahlt·. 
Descartes: I think, but more importantly, I have a laminated ID card with my picture and social security number on it; therefore, I am. 
Patrick Henry: Give me Liberty since Ican't have the Sugar or the Cotton. 
Aesop: It is thrifty to prepart· today for the wants oftomorrow, hut it is far more fun to blow off. 
Cato the Elder: Carthagt· is tine, hut Elkhart must he destroyed. 
John F. Kennedy: Now our stomachs summon us again-not as a call to hear arms, though arms we need; not as a call to battle, though emhattkd we art·; hut a call to hear the burden ofa long, hard-to-swallow struggle, year in and year out, a struggle against the common enemies of man: breaded veal, cheese cutlets, frito casscrok, and death itself. And so, my f<.·llow Domers, ask not what your dining hall can do for you; ask what you can do for your dining hall. 
Julius Caesar: l came, I saw, I was deceived. 
Charles Schulz: llappiness Is a Big Fat Scholarship. 
Seneca: What fools these mortals be, especially those who try the ydlow stull" at the salad bar. 
MickJagger&Keith Richard'!: Campus-View, children, it's just a pick away, it's just a pick away. 
Saint Bemard: I wish people would stop making fun ofmy name. 
Muhammad Ali: Not only do I drop tht· class -I pick the week. 
John Heywood: Rome was not built in a day, hut it wouldn't surprise me if the Computing Center was. 
William Shakespeare: What's in a name? That which we call last wt•t·k's hamburger hy any other namt· would taste as had. 
If you haVl·tears, prepare to sht:d them in the second week ofMay. 
Something is rott<.·n in the state ofIndiana. 
Out. damn roach! Out, I say! 
William Blake: Dome. Dome. burning bright 
On tht· campus in the night 
What immortal hand or eye 
Could frame thy karful tyranny? 
Nathan Hale: I regrt·t that I have hut two cheers to give my team. 
Franklin D. Roosevelt: We have nothing to tear hut ft·ar itself. exn·pt mayht· tilr lkPaul. Pittsburgh. Rutgers .. 
Blaise Pascal: I have discQVert·d that all had grades come from this: man's inability to sit still in a classroom. 
Walter Cronkite: And that's the way it is. Yecch. 
Patrick Henry: I know nor what course others may take, hut as for me, I want Art Trads and I want il pass/fail. 

I
n an attempt to thread visual art, movement, sound and literature into an evening of'performance art," Angela Allyn unveiled her new work, "Personas and Other Found Objects" last Friday evening. Allyn is the founder of Abiogenesis Dance Collective, and has been in residence ht:re this week on her break from New York where she is teaching at Columbia University, and also working on a Maters ofArts in Dance. Kerry Axelsson and Step· hen Blaha assisted in the per­formace, and Normajohnson was in charge ofprops and sets. 
The various pieces in the dance concert reflected a trend of mini-, malism in modern dance. Each presentation flowed continuously into the next without pause. The unrelated amalgamation ofscenes created some interesting results. 
The visual impact ofthe set was quite stunning. Black and red sht:ets ofpaper hung from the ceiling and served as masking lor the dancers as well as a frame for the performing area. About 20 white mao;ks and other everyday objects were care· fully placed in and around the performing area suggesting some 
mind tripping. 
Allyn's theme pertained to her own experiences into the psychic, as well as her attempts to draw from various literary sources such as the personal want-ads in theVillage Voice; a monologue by David Getz; "Tricks with Mirrors" by Margaret Atwood and writings from Dr. Rohrshach. 



Strip: not up to par for Ad 
wide-open style ofprevious albums with "Spanish Games," a tune

By Dave Sarphie 
respkndent with spanish-sounding 

features staffwriter trumpets (oddly enough). The first side ends with "Vanity," a song symbolizing the parody that Ant 
E
very once in awhile an album second song, "Baby, Let Me Scream 

views his own image with. Here he comes along that forever at You," which finds Ant imploring sings: changes the nature of man's destiny, his girlfriend to "Pass the chili causing him to reevaluate the issues sauce" (for reasons beyond the 
I think she likes my accent. and values that have confronted him scope of this writer's_JiXpcrience ). She says she thinks it's so polite.for centuries. Adam Ant'sStrip is not The album slows a bitTn "Libertine," one of these albums. but the bluesy saxophone solo and 
The second side opens with the Instead, it is a clever though some· the nice ending that tlnds Ant sin· 
purr ofa cat that begins the other what shallow parody ofAnt's own ging without accompaniment sav~ 
song on the album produced by Phil swashbuckling image that has been the song. 
Collins, "Puss 'N Boots." The main promulgated by recent videos. Ant is Ant briefly returns to his more 
chorus of this clever rocker meshes 
usually found dressed in pirate attire, complete with sword, always arriving in the nick of time to save the beautiful young princess (who later becomes an adultress). He seems on top ofthe image and the music that accompanies it, assuring us of this with his tongue-in-check approach. 
The album's ten songs, humorous at times, carefree throughout, are linked by Ant's wide-ranging tenor voice and a sexy theme that seems to say, "You can have me ... for a price." Indeed, one has only to look at Ant's bare-chested pose on the al· bum's sleeve to realize that platonic philosophy is not always on his mind. 
The album opens with a Phil Collins-produced, and therefore drum-dominated tune, "Strip," that asks the proverbial question, "If! strip for you, will you strip for me?" The syncopated rhythm, coupled with the fun lyrics make this an easy pop tune to listen to. 
The fun continues with the 



Monday, February 20, 1984 -page 7 

The evening was a bit overwelm­ing with so much information presented in such close proximity. Allyn's ideas needed refining, clarification. and most ofall, simplification. The six concepts presented were: Theld; The Ego;The 
Rohrshach Blots; Collective totally conscious; The Super Ego A. Social Climbing;andTheSuperEgoB.Per­sonal~y, no conclusions. These 
needed to have Allyn's point ofview clearly established. The drone ofthe monotonous voices on the tape added confusion to the perfor­mance, rather than supporting and clarifying what was on stage. Reduc­tion in dialogue and a better presentation of the literature was needed. 
The relationship ofthe three per­formers was vague. There was little kinetic sense ofdrama between per­formers with the exception of Axelsson's presentation during an improv section. She exploded across the space, ripping the set and stuff­ing part ofit down Allyn's leotard. This was her physical reacton to "A responsible young adult." 
As an overall assessment, the eve­ning was long. The loosely presented ideas needed structure and inner rythm. 
Holly Searer lives in South Bend with herhusbandand two children She is a dance instructor at the Southold Dancecenter and has taught at several colleges around the country. 
mAnt 
well with the back-up vocals, creat­ing an excellent effect. One ofthe al­bum's stronger pieces, "PlaybolJ." follows. Here Ant's spoken word im­itates a classy playboy on the make, always with the perfect line for the perfect lady. 
"Montreal" is next up with a Twenties sound reminiscent of Taco's "Puttin' on the Ritz" released earlier this year. The middle ofthe song drags with,t:epetition, but good string accompaniment builds the song toward a strong conclusion. A syncopated drumbeat similar to Ant's "Goody Two· Shoes" oflast year drives "Navel tQ Neck" through breaks in which Ant reiterates, "I want to kiss you." 
The album ends with yet another cleverly-worded rocker, "Amazon." As with most ofthe other songs, Ants smart lyrics portend deeper meanings -meanings he can never deliver. 
The production is very polished on the surf..tce but a listener seeking something more: gutsy, more impor­tant, in Ant's music will search a long time. 
Adam Ant has the voice and the charisma to be a top notch perfor­mer. He has the perception to write clever lyrics. His goal should now be to find sophisticated subject matter more appropriate for his song­writing talents. 
Az~thor's note: Participating in this group record review were: Matt Black, Greg McNjdfy,Alan Straub, Dave Sundry, a1W Alex.Szilvasc 
This album was provided by Music/and ofUniversity Park Mall. 
Special to The Observer 

J
oan ~orneman, assistant conduc­
tor and prompter for the 
Metropolitan Opera Association in 
New York City, will teach a master 
class in voice, February 25 at Saint 
Mary's College. 
The workshop will begin at 10 
a.m. and continue until6 p.m., with a 90-minute lunch break. Persons in­terested in attending the master class should contact Carol Belland in the Saint Mary's College department of music at 284-4627 or 284-4632. 
Ms. Dornemann, the first and only female prompter at the Met, is responsible for ensuring the musci­cal accuracy and flow ofeach opera by coordinating singers from her prompter's box. 
A member ofthe Metropolitan Opera since 1975, Ms. Dornemann also works closely with individaul singers and has gained a reputation as one ofthe world's foremost teach­ers ofsinging. She has coached such opera stars as Luciano Pavarotti, Placido Domingo, Roberta Peters and Robert Merrill. Each year she 
coaches and accompanies young finalists in the Metropolitan Opera National Council's audition, developing the next generation of 
opera siners. 
Ms. Dornemann, a graduate of Hofstra University, has studied at TheJuilliard School of music, the Manhattan School ofMusic, New York University and L'Universita Per Stranieri in Florence, Italy. She has worked as an assistant conductor and prompter at The Washington Opera, the Gra Te_atro del Liceo in Barcelona, the Teatre d'Opera in Madrid, the Spoleto Festival in Italy and the Teatro Guiseppe Verdi in Tieste, Italy. 
Ms. Dornemann began her musi­cal career at 1 5 when she gave piano recitals in New York City. While in college, whe worked as an accom­panist for singers. After a briefcareer as a music therapist for handicapped children, she joined the Metropolitan Opera's National Com pany. 
Ms. Dornemann's visit is I!P<>nsored by the Saint Mary's Col­lege department of music. 
The Bindery 

Fantasy of a 'tortured world' 
by Beth DeSchryver 
features staff writer 
I
n The One Tree, book two of the Second Chronicles ofThomas 
Covenant, Stephen Donaldson continues the story ofCovenant's 
quest to save the Land from Lord Foul and the Sunbane, a quest 
begun inThe Woundedland and continued in White Gold Wielder. 
As these books cannot easily be read as separate novels, this book 
review is more a trilogy review. Donaldsonoriginally introduced his 
fantasy world in a previous trilogy in 1977, in which Covenant is 
drawn from our world into the Land to aid the Land in a battle against 
its ancient enemy, Lord Foul. Covenant defeats Foul through the 
wild magic embodied in hiswhite gold ring, but returns to our world 
without destroying the villain. 

Ten years have passed for Thomas Covenant, but centuries have passed for the Land. Lord Foul has again risen to dominate the Land, inflicting upon it the Sunbane, a perversion ofnatural law which af­flicts the Land with extreme heat, rain, fertility, and pestilence in rapid succession. The people ofthe Land are forced to make blood sacrifices to cope with this force that is slowly destroying their world. Confident ofhis power, Lord Foul summons Covenant to the Land, seeking to gain from him the white gold and wild magic, or to drive Covenant himselfto use his power in a battle which would destroy the arch of time and enable Foul to break free ofthis world. Linden Avery, a doctor who is found to possess Earthsight, is brought with Covenant. Earthsight is the ability to perceive health or hurt in all things. It is this that aids Covenant in understanding the Sunbane. 
In seeking a way to battle Lord Foul, Covenant journeys through­out the land, rejected by most ofthe people, who believe him to be evil. Through the knowledge he gains, however, Covenant resolves to seek for "the one tree" from which to create a new StaffofLaw to aid in healing the Land. The One Tree is the story ofthis difficultjour­ney. White Gold Wielder concludes the trilogy with Covenant's return to the Land and his confrontation with Lord Foul. 
In his books Do~aldson uses many stock elements ofepic fantasy -a magic staff, a ring ofpower, a journey into an evil moun­tain ...yet while many of Donaldson's names and elements may seem trite or obvious, hiswork is strikingly original in the qualities of the Land and ofThomas Covenant. For Covenant is a leper, an American leper whose disease has become controlled, but who is forced into solitude by society. His struggle to function in society as a leper forms a major theme ofthe original trilogy, which begins shortly after the discovery ofhis disease. 
While the second trilogy focuses less on Covenant's leprosy, it is more intricate and psychological, creating a work ofgreater depth. The effect on the characters ofseeing this tortured world around them and of their own actions or inability to act play a substantial role in the evolution of the story. Thomas Co t venant and Linden Avery must struggle not only with their adversary, but with their own pasts which have driven each of them near enough to self-hate and despair for Lord Foul to corrupt them, and use them as tools for his own gain. 
In portraying these mner battles, however, Donaldson at times becomes too introspective, too often slowing the action to say the same message over and over. Agood deal ofdialogue consists of what characters want to say t to each other, but don't. All this creates some drag in the story'smovement, but not enough to seriously harm the work. Overall, the trilogy is very interesting and suspense­ful, not disappointing the reader in the solution ofriddles that appear throughout the text. Iwould recommend this trilogy to anyone who enjoys fantasy literature. 

TheOne Tree 
by Stephen Donaldson 

Ballantine Books, New York, 1982 475pages $3.50 

Sports Briefs 
Cheerleaderswishing to try out for the 1984-8s squad must attend a meeting on February 27 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The captain of next year's team will be Bill Thallemer. Call him at 233­43J1 for more dt.·tails. -The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for February 2H. Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to Dennis Stark the day before the meet or the interhall office, C2, ACC. For more information on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Observer 
1\vomaniJersofthe Squash Club competed in the Sixth Annual Purdue Squash Open. Chaitanya Panchal emerged the win­ner of the "C" division after dekating five opponents. Sean P. Ric­hardson won the consolation bracket of the "D" division. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's trackteam com­
peted at the Huron Invitational Saturday at Eastern Michigan Univer­sity. The team also received an invitation to the Can-Am games at Windsor. Ontario next January. The team gets some time off until April when the outdoor season begins. New runners are encouraged to come out at the beginning of March. Call Rose Marie Luking at x4262 or Anne Attea at x8161 for more information. -The Ob­server 
Quarterback Richard Todd became the latest 
casualty of the New York Jets' housecleaning when he was traded Saturday to New Orleans for the Saints' first-round choice -No. 15 overall -in the May I National Football League draft. Todd was the Jets' No. I draft pick in I 976, but he was not willing to live up to the image or able to match the performance of his fellow Alabama alumnus and New York predecessor, charismatic Super Bowl hero Joe Namath. Todd expressed delight at the trade. "I'm glad the situa­tion came about," he said. "I feel like I'm going back home. I think it's great." -AP 
Tom Seaver.who said he might retire rather than pitch for the Chicago White Sox, reached an "agreement in principle" Satur­day with the club and will report to training camp. Seaver and White Sox' owners jerry Reinsdorf and Eddie Einhorn reached the agree­ment early Saturday, and the veteran right-hander was expected to report to training camp tomorrow or Tuesday, said club spokesman Chuck Shriver. Seaver and his family left their Greenwich, Conn., home Saturday to drive to the training camp at Sarasota, Fla., Shriver said. Terms of the agreement were not disclosed. "It is certainly a plus to add a player ofSeaver's caliber, character and background to the club," said General Manager Roland Hemond. "It's a great way to open a spring training camp." The 39-year-old Seaver was selected by the I983 American League West Division champions in the com­pensation draft jan. 23 after free-agent Dennis Lamp signed with the Toronto Blue jays. -AP 
Men 
continuedfrom page 12 
percent rate of Notre Dame. Led by Tom Sluby's own 8-10 first half per­formance, the Irish managed a 19-25 clip from the field. 
"For a while in the first half, I didn't think they were ever going to miss," said first year Brigham Young coach Ladell Andersen. "But, at the same time, the longer you play, the more wearing it is on the body, and it's real hard to shoot as well later in the ball game." 
"We were very fortunate to be in the ball game at the end of the first half." 
Sluby absolutely ate up his man, BYU's Scott Sinek, in getting his 18 points in the initial period. Sluby connected on a series of short pull­up jumpers, driving layups, and two dunks, one ofwhich came off a steal at midcourt and was definitely high­light film material. 
"(Sluby) plays an unusual position and we decided to go with our best defensve man againt him, although he was shorter," Andersen says. "Sinek was doing the best job he could possibly do and I don't know that I could do it any different." 
"I've put Scott Sinek up against a lot ofpeople and (Sluby's) probably the toughest he's had to guard." 
"He's really a good guard," Sinek says. "And physical. But in the second half, instead of worrying about where the picks, etc., were, I was just worrying about stopping him. My teammates helped me out, too." 
Sinek's teammates may have helped him out more in the second half, but the BYU junior neglects to mention how poorly Sluby shot in the final period, which may or may not have been a result ofhow Sinek's mates ailled him. 
The Irish captain, who would go on to get 26 points in the contest, could manage but 3-14 shooting in the final period as Notre Dame con­nected on only 5-24 as a team. 
If you can believe it, though, the 

Monday, February 20, 1984 -page 8 
Irish were in the game up until the 
end, even with the way they shot in 
the second half. Notre Dame could 
stay in the game because it con­
tinued to control game tempo, as it 
had since the outset, through the 
first 12 minutes of the second half. 
Throughout the game, when the 
Irish wanted to run, they ran. When 
they wanted to play their usual 
Digger Ball (patience on offense), 
they did. In changing from run-and­
gun at the start to a slower pace later 
on, Notre Dame always had its hand 
firmly on the game's tempo -until 
7:13 remained in the game. Then things got out of hand. With the Irish holding a 58-50 
lead, BYU reserve guard Steve Perry 
hit a jumpe-r from the top of the key. 
Notre Dame missed its shot down 
the floor and Perry came back 
downcourt1to answer with a layup. 
The Irish called a time out to try to 
settle things down, but to no avail. 
On its next possession, with the 
score now only 58-54, BYU was able 
to free Durrant for a dunk off a lob, 
and the 11th largest crowd in Mar­
riott Center history, 22,863, was in a 
frenzy as they sensed a Cougar 
comeback. 
Brigham Young then rattled off 
the riext six points, giving them 
twelve consecutive points, and it 
had a 62-58 lead. Two Dolan free 
throws brought Notre Dame back 
within 62-60 with 2:47 remaining. 
As time wound down, the Irish 
were forced to foul. But BYU is a 
very good free throw shooting team 
(it was shooting 75 percent from the 
line going into Saturday's contest), 
and hit six-of-eight down the stretch 
to finalize the defeat for Notre 
Dame. 
Ironically, it was BYU sophomore guard Chris Nikchevich who hit the final four free throws for the Cougars. Nikchevich, who was eight-of-eight on the day from the charity stripe, was recruited heavily by both Notre Dame and Brigham Young three years ago. The Wood­
land Hills, Calif., native made his final choice between the Irish and Cougars and, obviously, cast his lot with the latter. 
The Irish could manage only two­of-four free throws in the final mo­ments when they really needed the points. Effectively, BYU's twelve­point spurt had won the game for it, as, once the Cougars got ahead, the Irish couldn't muster a comeback at­tempt. 
"We just had a couple of key tur­novers and they came t down and scored," said Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps, "and that's all it took was about a two minute spurt before we just lost control. We beat our­selves. I think that was obvious ifyou saw the game." 
"But coming in here, and knowing how well Brigham Young can play at home, we handled it very well. We just didn't have the instinct to put it away at the end, and that's some­thing we have got to have more con­sistency with." 

The Irish, n ow 15-l 0, have three more games this season to work on that killer instinct they lacked Satur­day. That instinct is one of those things which come with experience, and, with an NCAA bid now out of the question, the three remaining games, and possibly some NIT games, are games in which the. Irish can work on getting that instintt for years to come. 
Saturday, Notre Dame showed that it really is becoming a hetter team. While the Irish may have folded in the game's waning mo­ments, the team, as a whole, really played quite well for much of the game. 
But, as the Irish players are quick­ly learning, there are 40 minutes to every game, and each minute must be played like the last in order to win. This may be a lesson that takes a long time to learn -but it sure is a valuable one. 
Brigham Young 68, Notre Dame 64 Notre Dame (64) 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Royal  23  4-4  1-2  6  5  9  
Dolan  39  2-5  3-6  4  2  7  
Barlow  39  4-8  2-4  6  4  10  
Sluby  37 11-24  4-7  3  4  26  
Howard  40  2-4  3-4  2  3  7  
Price  9  1-4  3-4  3  0  5  
Rucker  11  0-0  0-0  5  2  0  
Hicks  2  0-0  0-0  0  1  0  
200 24-49 16-27  29  21  64  

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac·
Classifieds 
ters r da . 
NOTICES 

ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT· HERSI Surfo up but our prices oren'!. From just $109.00 -opend 7 lun-ftlled daya In aunny Florida. Call lor your..ll or organlm a omall group and travel FREEl Great lor clube, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 368-2006, uk lor An­
netta. 
EXPERT TYi'ING DONE IN MY HOME AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009 
Full time & Summer Job• lor student• specializing In Banking & Markllllng. Commlulon only urea repraoentllllve calling on banko & pra..ntlng our computer service. MMG Corp. Florian L llelea HI00-582-0429. 
WOROPROCEssiNG···:"'i='~"·;;;;;;;;;~i~ 
work. Revisions & spelling corrections. Ph. 272-8827. 
Ate you In need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! M venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! APNV ROTC I See LTC Bot> Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman In the ROTC Building (239­8264). 
TIM WANTS TO KNOW WHY YOU liBERAL ARTS MI.IORS DON'T HAVE A PURPOSE YET. 
AMY. I DEVELOPED THOSE PICTURES OF YOU FROM WHEN YOU FELL AS­lEEP IN TIM'S CAR. IF YOU WAHT TO SEE THEM AND NOBODY ELSE PlACE $10,000 AND A TUNA MElT IN A PLAIN BROWN BAG AT THE CORNER OF IVY AND BULLA. 
TO THE GIRL WHO WANTS HER BRA BACK: I'M SORRY BUT I GAVE IT TO MY NEW GIRLFRIEND. IrS A LITTLE SMALL BUT SHE STILL LIKES IT. SOR­RY 
LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND: EYEGLASSES: Along Juniper Rd. near C-21ot. Call287-9766 evenings. 
FOUND: CALCULATOR In 356 Fitzpatrick Wed. Feb. 8. Can now identify and claim at lost and found. 
LOSTLOST LOSTLOSTLOST CAMOFLAGE HAT--LOSTLOST LOSTLOSTLOST LOSTLOST Have you seen a rather shapeless camoflage hat hanging around, suspiciously out o! place? It seems to have wanted to find it· sen and left its owner. II you have spotted this rebel, contact Carole at 7875, lor she will be extremely grateful. (This hat has a great amount of sentiments value...besides--its the kind with pull· down ear !laps, and it can't be found anymore). You will have done your Chris­tian duty and made this girl very jubilant. That's all. 
LOST: Silver Class Ring with Red Stone. Call Beaver 8449 
FOUND: Silver Cross pen behind O'Shaughnessy before Christmas break. Call Karen 3887 to identify initials. 
LOST: blue and grey NIKE running jacket in Saga(LeMans -) or Haggar 2114. Need desperlllelyl Please call 4231. 
LOST:GOLD_,.ATCH.MMITM 
~lUlU. LAST WEEit IF KMm, 
CALL CMNI AT1113. 
lOST: Notre Dame Credrt Union key ring with 7 keys, vlc:ln~y of LaFortune/Ad building. Hfound, catl234-0302. 
LOST: SILVER WAlCH wmt GOLD SCREWS. POLEKIOUARTZ WITH ROMAN NUMERALS. MAY HAVE BEEN LEFT IN ROCK. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL CONNIE 4526. 
To whomever took my -"T-" umbrella: 
I'm sure you appreciate rt as much as I, and I realize that you didn't even mean to take rt from the c-o lobby of North Dining Hall on Friday, Feb. 17 during B,...kfalll. All I ask is that you return rt to 222 Cavanaugh Hall at your earliest con­vemence.' or even call Nick at 1426 to ar­range its return. 
Thank you FOUND GOLD STRAP WATCH · 2 WEEKS AGO NEAR THE ROCK. IN· QUIRE AT LOST AND FOUND OR CALL 2838768. 
please help me find a lost gold chain bracelet with Jade beads and much sen­timental value. if found call anne at 4420. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277·3604/288-0955. 
ONE ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID 277-3604/288-0955 ENAAD 
Houses for '84-'85-Furnished, 1 mi. from campus 4-6 bdrm. 2 baths. CALL 277­
3461 
WANTED 
SOPHa.lORES! Interested in becoming an lwny Officer? lntentSted In Scholar· ships? See LTC Bot> Skinl'lllf or CPT Anne Rieman In the ROTC Building (239­6264). 
DESSPERATELY need 3 MarQtte Tix lor lamity.Call Dave at 1045 
Need ride to Des Moines. Leaving 2/23 or 2/24 and returning 2126. Desperate. Please cal! Denny 1807. ' 
~·········-~~;~~~--····r 
Want to know what's really going on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOUC REPORTER, the only newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a free sample copy, call Paul at 277-4851. 
Guild hardshell guitar case 234-2557 
Auellovox In-dash AM-FM cassette. Jen..n 4 1/2 convertible speakers. Never used. $100.00.239-7516-Susan· B-5. 
................................... 
TICKETS 
Need 2 stu. tix for the Marquette game. Call1388 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Kerth 1180 
MARQUETTE TIX? I need two student tickets to the Marquette game. Please call 1388 
SAVE A LIFEIIJ My father will KILL me ~ I don't come up with Marquette tickets for him and his visrting friends. He's VERY popular, but also very wealthy, so money is no problem. Call Jamie at 8704. Thanx. 
! NEED 5 TICKETS FOR THE MAR· QUETTE GAME. CALL MATT. 1208 
$$$ 
Need 3 MARQUETTE tlcUial 
Calll...an..1111311 
H£iPiiii'~'2';;'4''~'Si­
tickats. Call Rick at 3260. 
NEED 2 MARQUETTE G.A.'S. CALL MIKE No. 3238. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX CALL MARK 
1229 
NEED 211ARQUETTE G.A'S CALL 
RICH 
1411 
HELP I NEED 2 MU GA'S. CALL DAVE AT1801. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX. BILL 1059 
TOOTHSOME BLONDE WILLING & ABLE (TO NEGOTIATE) NEEDS 4 MROTTE TX JILL SMC No. 4274 HEIRESS TO IOWA POPCORN FORTUNE-ACCESS TO HUMON­GABUCKS 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
OMAHA, NE (CREIGTON U.) ANYONE?? Ride or riders needed to Omaha ffor the weekend o! Feb. 24 -26. Will share usual. Call Jeanne at 3484. 
LMP hope Hwas funI 
ORIOLES FEVER ...catch itlll 

Real men don't join Mary's Di-Hards 
HEY JEAN JACKET! WANNA GO TWO WHEEL!N? 
Joe Mitzel-DEAD I 

AIDE NEEDED to Kaplan MCAT prep course beginning Sat. Feb. 25 9am. PLEASE CALL: Gina 8020 Thanksll 
BUFFALO, NY CORNELL U. (ITHACA. NY) WELLS COll. (AURORA.NY) Riders needed. Leaving 2123 3pm, returning 2126. cauJim at 1747. 
Congratullllons, Oooldal 

-From your friends at St. Michael's Laundry 
The worth of a Mary's Di-Hard cannot be measured in common, materialistic terms. 
Foroalecheap: M11Cinloah Computer Goodunew Price negotiable Call x1763, a•lor "Doorknob." 
Tom Conaldlne is a hunk who is just too Illii.Ct]! He's loved by everyone-Farley, 
P."E., even Walsh! 

You're too much. Tom! How can we mere mortals ever hope to compete! II 
DEAREST JOSEPH. PLEASE CALL MRS. K. YOUR MOST HUMBLE SER­VANT 
To a terrific group o! guys who went 
beyond the call of duty to sing · Danny 
Boy" .. a sincere "Thank You" 
from a very satisfied customer. 
What ever happened to Chuck Barris? 
My name is Gerald Sampson. and I'm presently incarcerated at Florida State Prison. I would like to correspond with anyone at this school. I am a black male. age 27, 6'1" tall and 175 pounds. Age. race or sex is not important. Wrrte: Gerald Sampson. No. 048268, P.O. Box 747, Starke, FL 32091. 
namdam a alzenmaR cnolo1 
...-....................................................-.... 
To my Newport Beach family, I LOVE YOU AND THANK GOD YOUR MINE. CAN'T WAIT TilBREAKIIuv, ME at SMC 
tii:A'P():r-'ro'iii.T£j;ivou:u:·N£Viiii 
GET ME PAUL 
A representative from the APOSTOLIC VOLUNTEER PROGRAM w~l be in the LIBRARY CONCOURSE from 10AM­4PM on MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20th to meet student who are interes1ed in volunteering lor a year of Christian service in education, pastoral ministry. social services or health care. Contact CENTER FOR SOCIAl CONCERNS (239-5293) for information. 
INTERESTED IN SUMMER SERVICE OR POST-GRADUATE OPPOR­TUNITY? Eucharistic Missionary Sisters of St. Dominic wiiJ.be on campus Monday. Tuesday. & Wednesday, Feb. 20,21,22. Contact CENTER FOR SOCIAl CON· CERNS (239-5293) for information. 
THE LAWS OF MR. GOODWENCH... LAW NUMBER 5 (Common Knowledge) .. Men are superior to women II Rebuttals humorously welcomed.. (Go ahead wenchii, make my day) 
Wanted: detex lor Walsh Hall. See Paul. 

-----------------------------·----------·---------------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, February 20, 1984-page 9 
Dayton edges DePaul on last shot 

r-----------------------------, 
en 

• 0 
a. 

=.~ :.N 
0 !::! .

• c D. 
0 

Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive yourself with a well­rounded meal from Dominds Pizza. We'll help smooth the wrinkles out of your day. 
Dominds Pizza makes this guarantee: If your pizza does not arrive within 30 minutes, irs free... no coupon necessary! 
Fast ... Free Delive~ 
Call us. 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Plaza 23 Center 
Hours: 4:30pm-1 am Sun·Thurs. 4:30pm-2a.m Fri & Sat. 
Ask about our party 
discounts. 
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00. 
Monday Special 
II. 

Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb ~~ Cheese Pizza \;7, 12" cheese $4.79 ' 16" cheese $6.89 
Domino's Deluxe 5 Items for the price of 4 Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers and Sausage 12" Deluxe $ 8.35 16" Deluxe $12.05 
Addltlonel Items Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Olives, Green Peppers, Onions, Ground Beef, Sausage, Extra Cheese, Ham, Extra Thick Crust, Jalapenos, Anchovies 12" pizza $ .89 per item 16!' pizza $1.29 per item 
Cok..-available 
Prices do not include 
applicable sales tax. 
Limited delivery area 
e ,_., 0om'lfWJ'I ptzza, Inc. 
Only $7.25 for a 16" 1 ·item pizza with two Cokes•. Good Mondays Only. One coupon per pizza. 
Fast, Free Delivery~ 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
39033/2650 
r l I I 

.(
L-----·--·--···--·-···--------~ 
Associated Press  standing at midcourt and waving to  teams  Saturday,  No.  North  
everyone: (in the: dream). And then  Carolina  defeated  North  Carolina  
It was a dream come: true: for Ed  when the: dream ended, we: won by  State: 9S-71; second-ranked George­ 
Young-literally.  one: and somebody made: a basket for  town rolled past Providence: 59-38;  
Young sank a twisting bank shot  us," Young said.  No. 4 Houston tripped Virginia 74­ 
with one: second remaining to  lift  "Today  when  Ray  Meyer  was  65; Louisville: upset No. 8 Memphis  
unheralded Dayton to a 72·71 col­ standing  at  midcourt,  I  told  State: 8S-78; ninth-ranked Oklahoma  
lege: basketball victory over  No.  3  (teammate:)  Damon  (Goodwin),  whipped Colorado 93-80; and No.  (  
DePaul Saturday. a finish that the: 6­ 'I've seen this before:. We're: gonna  10 Texas El-Paso beat Wyoming 73­ 
foot-7  sophomore:  dreamed  about  win this game:.' I don't think Damon  66.  
rn·o weeks ago.  paid any attention to me:," he: added.  In other action Saturday, No.  I I  
"(De: Paul Coach) Ray Meyer was  In games involving other Top I 0  Purdue: edged Michigan 67-64.  

Hockey 
continuedfrom page 11 
hack in the lead S-4 going into the: final 20 minutes. 
It took the Chargers just I: I'· though. to tie the: score again as Rogers tipped home: a centering pass from Mills breaking in on the right wing. 
Moerner stifled the Irish the rest of the: way making several key saves on Notre: Dame powe t rplays and other chances. 
Finn's controversial goal at I 0:41 then proved to he: the winner for Alabama. 
"To have the winning goal scored like: it was. makes the win a little on the: tainted side," said Notre: Dame head coach Lefty Smith. 
Moc:rnc:r stopped 40 shots for Alabama. Lukc:nda and AI Haverkamp teamed up for 40 saves for Notre: Dame:. 
Tom Parent suffered a mild con­cussion and also received four stichc:s in tht· chin after taking a hard hit in the second period. He didn't finish Friday's game. hut was able to return on Saturday. 
Saturday's action was again fast pace .d and hard hitting. but neither team could get the: puck in the net until J4:S6 of the first period when Bob Thebeau rifled a shot from the top of the circle past Charger goalie Barry Freidman. 
With just over one minute to play 
in the: period Finn scored a shor­thanded goal on a two on one: break as he and Rogers went in on Tony Bonadio and Lukcnda. 
Wallenstein and Brian Butcher gave: the: Chargers a 3-1 advantage. scoring twice within four minutes near the: midway point ofthe period. 
Notre Dame came right hack. however, scoring two goals of its own within one minute and six seconds to knot the score at three. Metzler drilled a shot from the left wing off Freidman's pads with tht· Irish on a powcrplay at 16:SR Co­captain Joe: Bowie then raced the length ofthe icc and dished off to Jeff Badalich who hanged the puck in at the: edge of the Alabama crease. 
The second shorthanded goal by the Chargers at S:23 off the stick of Mills lifted Alabama into the lead again. The two shorthanded goals were only the second and third such goals allowed by Notre Dame this season. 
Andy Gilbert then notched what turned out to ht· the game winner on a breakaway with I 1-: IS remaining in the: contest. 
The Irish kept fighting. and pulled within one as Parsons tapped home a pass from Chapman for the second Notre Dame pownplay goal of th~· night. 
Quailc then scaled the Alabama victory with th~· lone Charger powcrplay tally of the weekend at IS:2H. 
Notre Dame didn't give up. and if anything became more intense in the: last four minutes. Lukcnda was 
'• F F 
.... ... BAHAMAS REUNION PARTY 
Taesday,Feb.21 
Sr. Bar 9:30-1:00 Extra Special Bahama Drink Specfal8 DRESS OBNOXIOUSLY 
(private party) 
r• 
I 7 F I I S 
1'115OLD HOOSE JiiUERIAANDPVB 

BRUNas (Across from Big "c•Lumber) 
Moaday-Thanday 
BRUNO wiU deliHr FREE to campua A MEDIUM 16" Pizza with any 2 toppings FOR ONLY $8.95 PLUS lliter Pepsi-FREE 277-4519 
Order between 7-8:30/or $ J dU.count on special• 
Mon -Thun Frl-Sat Sunday 4IIIOPM.~ lJntflllPM 3·8PM 


then pulled with I: I 0 to play to give: the: Irish the man advantage. and when two penalties were called against Alabama. Notre: Dame had a six to three: man advantage. 
But just like Mocrncr the: night before. Freidman came up with some spectacular saves to squelch Irish scoring tries. He also received some hc:lp from the goal posts and crossbar as Notre Dame: hit the post three times and the crossbar once in the course of the game. 
"The kids gave a good, solid ef­fort." said Smith. "They worked c:x­trt·mc:ly hard. hut ju:;t didn't get the right breaks." 
"We were really fired up to win," said Bonadio. "But wt· have to give them credit. They played a real good game. A few breaks in our dire<:tion could have: made it a different game." 
Freidman turned ha~·k 4S shots for the winners. white Lukt·nda madt· 43 saves for the Irish. 
With the two losses Notre Dame's 
record drops to ~ very impressive: 
21-3-1. Alabama m'>vcs to 24-4. 
The Irish return home: next weekend to face Division II varsity opponent Michigan-Dearborn. 
Women 
continued/rom page 11 
Notre Dame:. freshman guard Vonnie Thompson suffered a twistt·d ankle midway through the second half. and did not return. 
Detroit was able to adjust to the loss ofTcnnant. as Howard moved to center and pulled down I 2 rebounds. while Pearce moved into the starting lineup and played the whole game. 
Notre Dame. on the other hand. sorc:ly mis.o;cd the quickncs.o; and hall-handling of Thompson, as the quicker Detroit guards preyed on tht· Irish hackcourt for tht· rt·st ofthe game. 
"Their switch from a zone to a man-to-man (defense) in the last few minutes really hurt us." said Doug­herty of DcwayncJones' Titans. "\1i'c didn't react as well as we should have:. instead we let them throw us off our gamc'-and fon:c us to throw the hall away. 
"Theimportant thing for us to do now is pull ourselves together and start playing well, to finish above .SOO (at I0-15. the: Irish would haw to win all fivt· of their remaining games to accomplish that). 
"Tonight's game was very impor­tant for us. in terms of the (North Star) Conference championship. (With a 4-3 record, the Irish arc vir­tually out ofcontention.) Things can still turn our way. We just have to kc:cp playing hard." 
Notre Dame will try to get hack on track on Saturday. wl;lcn they face Xavier at the ACC in their final home: game of the season. 
_.,.........-......... M 
! Roc.co's Hair ­
J !j]styling 
531 N. Michigan St.• South Bend 
Phone 133-4957 
.........__...,_,,,_..............__..JI 
The Observer Monday, February 20, 1984-page 10 

The Observer/Paul Cif'ardli 
against Marquette winning 27-12. 
The big match-up ofthe night was supposed to be at 126 pounds with Notre Dame senior Mark Fisher taking on Tom Pecora of Marquette. The match-up was still there, it was just wrestled at 134. Marquette moved Pecora up a class to 134 to try and avoid Fisher. 
"I think he didn't want to wrestle me hec.:ause he had nothing to profit from it." said Fisher. "He had already heatt·n me once this y·ear and if he lost it could only hurt him." 
The first period was dry until the closing moments when Fisher got 
"A pin at the beginning gives you a good feeling," said Toth-Fejel. "He wrestled tough in his second match (against Purdue). He just "!eeds more experience under his belt." 
Since Fisher was bumped up a weight from I 26, freshman Carl Hil­dinger was forced to move up from I 18 to 126. Hildinger beat Mar­quette I0-5, but didn't fair as well against Purdue losing 13-3. 
"He pulled every trick not to get pinned (against Purdue)," praised Toth-Fejel. "He was aggressive and that really impressed me." 
The heavyweight and l 50-pound 

Olympic medal count 
The XIV Winter Olympics t·nded yesterday, and the United Stales finished fifth in the medal count with eight medals (four gold and four silver). 
Winning gold medals for the llnited States were: 
Hill johnson Men's Dou•nhill 
Phil Mahre -Men's Slalom 
nebbieArmstrong-Women's Giant Slalom 
Scott Hamilton Men's Figure Skating 
Winning silver medals for the 
United States were: 
Steve Mahre -Men's Slalom 
Christine Cooper-Women's Giant Slalom Rosa~vnn Sumners Women's Figure Skating Kitty and Peter Carruthers ­Pairs Figure Skating 


WHEN ARMY NURSES MOVE, THEY TAKE THEIR SENIORITY WITH THEM. 
Army nurses are officers. They never lose status by moving, as so often happens in civilian hospitals. 
In fact, the Army encourages mobility and growth. You're encouraged to continue your education in clinical specialties such as Intensive Care, or Pediatrics, OB or Anesthesia and to attend conferences both inside and outside the Army. 
If you have a BSN and are registered to practice in the US or Puerto Rico, or you're still a student, talk to an Army Nurse Recruiter. 
It could be a very happy move. 
CALL:: Sgt. Moore or Sgt. Haggard 
(815) 727-9120 
Call Collect 

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
With the regular season over the Irish will try their luck next weekend at the NCAA Regionals in Terre Haute. 

Tom Sluby led all scorers with 26 points as the Irish fell to the Brigham Young Cougars 68-64. However, Sluby scored on~v eight points in the second halfas Notre Dame's offense froze. For more details, seejeffBlumb's story on page 12. 
Kentucky overcomes Vanderbilt 
Associated Press furious Vanderbilt comeback that saw the Commodores erase a 50-41 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Kentucky Wildcat lead to pull even at 'i4-54 center Melvin Turpin hit a short with 3 7 seconds remaining. jumper with 30 seconds remaining The Wildcats are now 20-4 over­and guard Dicky Beal added a pair of all, while Vanderbilt fell to 6-8 in the free throws as the sixth-ranked SEC and l 1-12 overall. Wildcats defeated Vanderbilt 58-54 The Commodores caught Ken­in a Southeastern Conference bas­tucky when Wildcat forward Sam ketball game yesterday. Bowie was called for goaltending on 
Kentucky, which pulled one-half a shot by Vanderbilt center Brett game ahead of Auburn in the SEC Burrow. race with an l I-3 record, survived a Turpin answered quickly, hitting his short jumper off the Kentucky fast break. Beal was fouled with 23 seconds remaining and his two free throws look the Commodores out of the game. 
Turpin led all scorers with 22 points. Beal and Walker added I 0 each. Bowie had eight points and grabbed a game-high nine rebounds. Forward Jeff Turner led the Com­modores with 17 points. Burrow had 12. 

________---l T0 day_________________
......_M_o_n_d_ay_,_F_eb_r_u_ary_2_o_,-1-98_4__v_a_g_e_l_l_ 
Bloom County 

Mellish 
IGOOD AnERNOON I'M WSND SOCIAL COMMENT!\TM, BILLY TOUGHY WITHInm wmd Qutsmll: WILL MICHm 
.J!\CKlON'5 i'miC BHDH{ MORt 
APPERIING TO fWE llU~IC lOVEIS I
NOW THAT JACKSON IS A DLEA£11 
81011/Jf /11/f/1 IIUBVfN II16H l/611 15 7 
NOW, BARRY GRYIIOII WITH All JNT£11· 
EST/No PllfSPE£Tir£ OIV VIDEO 
GAMES ,.. MRRY l 
~ 

Guindon 
YfS... WW..... NOW 
meN... W~ CAN 5TA 1\T

SO, 10 Het..P OUR Nf..W V!Wf-RS 
IN fVLSA, I 7HOU&HT IT'll 
RIGHT Hf.Rf.. Wf..'Rf 5/ANPIN0 

Be N/a!.. 1V SPf.NP THe Nf.'f:T 
IN ''Mi£.0'5 Mf..A!?OW." OVU< 

ff.W Wf.£K5 CON(J()WN& A 
1Hf.RE 15 "81NK~Y." TO MY 

BASIC INTROPUC1VRY lOUR 
LEFT HfRE 15 "FrJI?TNOY.~. 

OF 8UJO/r1 COUNTY. 



THANK5 BILlY. Hft/0... IME VIPEO 
' TAX!, FoK friii'IPt!, Till £)fAP/5T 

6AI'IES /){TRJHENTAL TO TAE 
i ft/ftJTAtiTY OF TJ/f TYPICAl "61lf'I1U~ 

MtArmrY Df Till 11/PIYIP/JAF 
I THIS ADDicT IS I'IES/'1EIIUIJ BY 

THIS KfPDI(Tff{ fEElS SO. TJIESE 
IFIR~HJN~ IH40fS /JII A IR/61/T 

GAI'I£.5 AKE 8{:(gf'lll'/6 Sl/fME/1 IN 
j5ctfUI. A "UsU's" PAKTIC/It41 

THEI,f' INCIIEAJIN<i llrFLIIENc£ ON 
GIIME toNTROtS /Us Mlfl/) BY 

TilE Ytl/1111 OF AIVU/cA. VIPEO Gil/tiES 
i01/IECrtY /NfAIJIN6 THE SU8­

AKl PROGAIIMMIN6 THEIK 1/S£11' 
,.CJIISCIPIIS NOKliJ. 

MD PMU/116 TW ClEM/fE 
FA£11Lf/JES.II~R\\\~1\ 
~~~~)
·~)" 
~.., ( 
~~ 

Richard Guindon The Far Side 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Secure 5 Adipose  34 Sphere 36 Surrepti· tious  63 Site of ancient Olympic  12 Arrow poison 13 Advantage  
10 Buckeye State  40 Sack  games  18 Ripped 19 Cashew nut  
14 Actress  41 Expunge  64 Humors  23 Namein  
Jackson  42 Lab burner  65 Space  soccer  
15 Confusion  43 Abates  agency  24 Dern of  
45 Pact  films  
16 Author Ayn 17 Offset  47 Soup vegetable  DOWN  25 Parrot fish  
20 Flap 21 Galena and  48 Nourishment 49 Certain  1 Reality 2 Celebes ox  26 Short  
hematite  soldier  3 Rebuff  pencil  
22 Pastry items  52 B.A. word 53 Money  4 X 5 Merle of  27 Waterway 28 Projecting  
23 Poke  player  movies  edge  
24 Calf's cry 26 Reredos  56 Retaliatory actions  6 Opened to view  29 Iron 30 Short  
29 Extrude  60 Inkling  7 Wanes  surplice  
32 Follow  8 Coral or  31  Eng. river  
secretly  Red 9 Building  33 Express_ gratitude  
61  Malign  wing  35 Donkey  
33 City in Cornwall  62 Serling and Steiger  10 Elaborately decorated 11 Taxi  sound 37 Excise a portion of  


Friday's Solution 




The Student Union and Hall Academic Commissions proudly present 
ACCENT Lecture Series 
*Featuring informal discussions in the dorm from 
N.D. Faculty and administrative members *Watch for it TOMMORROW! 

38 Arboretum 
specimen 39 Necessity 44 Tilts 45 Adds up 
46 Betsy or Diana 
48 Released from bond· age 
49 Pain 50 Fiber knot 
Berke Breathed 


Gary Larson 
51 Pueblo 
Indian 52 Pulpit desk 53 Malay 
canoe 54 Cardinal and scarlet 
55 Pelion's paliner 57 Shade tree 
58-Grande 59 Samovar 

Campus 
•12:
15 p.m. -Workshop, "Christians and the Left in Latin America," Rev. Claude Pomerleau, Library Lounge 

•1:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "The Aerodynamics of Flight at High Angles ofAttack," Dr. Gary T. Chap­man, Room 12 Aero Space Lab 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Auto CAD and PC Graphics, 115 CCMB 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Basic Management Respon­sibilities," Irvin W. Maloney, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by MBA School, 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Momentum Distribution in Liquid and Solid Helium," Dr. Paul 

E. 
Sokol, 118 NSH 


•4:30 
p.m -Chemistry Lecture, "Diaryne Equiv­alents in the Synthesis of Unnatural Products," Prof. Harold Hart, 123 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -English Lecture, "The Discrimina· tion of Mortalities," Prof. David Halliburton, 208 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•7 
p.m. -PanelDiscussion, "Central America in Crisis," Michael E. Conroy and , Rev. Claude Pomerleau, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series, "Mon Oncle," AnnenbergAuditorium, S2.50 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -FUm, "The Chosen," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Sopho­more Literary Festival, $1 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series II, "La Strada," Annenberg Auditorium, $2.50 


TV Tonight 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
9p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 

16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 34 Straight Talk 16 1V Bloopers and Practical jokes 22 "Master ofthe Game" Pt.ll 
28 Movie: "Superman II" 34 Frontline 16 Monday Night at the Movies 34 The Shakespeare Plays 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/ Columbo 28 Thicke ofthe Night 
Sports 
Monday, February 20, 1984 -page 12 
Notre Dame shooting goes cold in second half as Irish fall to BYU 
ByJEFF BLUMB Dame team would have had to look stop Durrant, holding the nation's Assistant .\j)(}rts Editor twice in the first half to make sure No. 2 scorer to only six shots and a that it was. in fact, Notre Dame out season low eight points in the game. PROVO, lltah -Notre Dame there in its away navy blues. Rather Durrant was having a hard time should have pt·titiont·d for there to than playing their usual patient of­even getting his hands on the ball. bt· no halftime. The Irish shooters fensive game, the Irish were running He finally hit a jumper with just un­wt·re red hot in the first half, hitting up and down the floor with the 16-7 der seven minutes gone in the game. 
an almost-unheard-of 76 percent Cougars -so much, that the score The Cougar senior would get only 
from the field. in coasting to a 4S-40 was already .2';-18 in favor of Notre three shots in the first 20 minutes, interrmsston kat! over Brigham Dame with only eight minutes gone but he took full advantage by making Young ht·re Saturday. in the game. them all. 
But wht·n Notre Dame came out Why, Notre Dame didn't even "I thought (Dolan) did a great job for the second half, the hot shooting score 4<; points in both halves oftwo denying me the ball," said Durrant whkh had carried it through the of its games this season and, here, afterward. "But early on. they con­first half suddenly went cold -ice the Irish had that many in the first centrated so much on me that it cold. Still, despitt· their abysmal 21 half alone. freed up some other people. They pt·rcent second-half shooting,. the A lot of people would have said stopped me but they didn't stop the Irish managt·d to stay in the game before this game, "Stop Devin Dur­team." right up until the t·nd, before finally rant and you've stopped BYU." "We didn't expect (Applegate) to falling to the Cougars, 68-64. Not true. us as
hurt much," assessed Dolan. 

Anyone familiar with the Notre The Irish. or ratherJim Dolan, did "(After Durrant) \\e thought that we matched up with the rest of them perfect."
Detroit's Lady Titans 
Cougar senior Bret Applegate was just the first of a number of BYU players who took turns hurting

edge Irish in close game 
Notre Dame. Applegate, who would 

go on to lead all rebounders in the By LARRY BURKE give the Irish an 80-76 lead with 
game with 12, had 10 first-half Sports Writer 2:02 left to play. 
points en route to a 14-point perfor­That's when Notre Dame's 

mance. for 38 minutes of Saturday eve­problems began. First Titan guard 
Later in the half, it was BYU's Jim ning's game between the Notre Regina Pierce, who had 20 points 
Usevitch who would do the damage.Dame women's basketball team and and 10 steals, hit an 18-footer. Then, 
The sophomore center came off the the Lady Titans of the University of following an Irish turnover (one of 
Cougar bench to add 12 points ofhis 

Detroit, it looked as if the Irish had 29 on the night), Howard sank a shot 
own on six-of-six shooting.

their third straight win pretty well in from inside the key. N otre Dame 
But while Brigham Young was hit­hand. center Mary Beth Schueth was 
ting 64 percent of its shots in the llnfi>rtunatdy for Notre Dame, whistled for a foul on a half, percentage any coach
the play, a
first 

however, it was the last two minutes questionable call, but one that gave 
would take, it hardly matched the 76 

that made all the difference. During Detroit the momentum as Howard 
see MEN, page 8 

that time, Detroit outscored the converted the three-point play to Irish 11-2 to turn a four point deficit give Detroit an 81-80 lead. into a five point victory, 8';-80. The Irish still had a chance 
Lose CSCHL lead

This was the type of game that however, with possession and 43 Notre Dame had expected from seconds on the clock. But Trena Detroit -close throughout (the Keys' inbounds pass, intended for lead changed hands I 7 times). It was Denise Basford, was stolen by 
Alabama-Huntsville sweep Irish 
the kind of game that is either won Pierce, who passed to backcourt with big plays, or thrown away with mate Nealy. Dougherty quickly By ED DOMANSKY played at the ACC. Since Alabama stole the puck in front of the 
costly mistakes. for the Irish on fouled the Titan guard, who hit two Sports Writer has chosen to host the U.S. National Alabama goal and fired into the topSaturday, it wa.~ a case of the latter. pressure free throws to give Detroit Club Ice Hockey Championship 
corner behind Moerner. After Detroit forward Bridget a three point lead with 23 seconds The skies were blue and it was 
they will not be coming to Notre Thirty-two seconds later finn gotHoward took an inside pass from left. certainly "Sweet Home Alabama" for 
Dame for the playoffs. the Chargers on the board as he 
guard Pat Nealy for two ofher game­Any chance that Notre Dame had the University of Alabama­Both games were battles to the pushed the puck through a crowd high 2:3 points. the Titans had a 74-at that point quickly disappeared, as Huntsville Chargers this weekend. end as each team's quick, aggressive 
past and past Lukenda. 

71 lead with S: I 0 remaining. But the Nealy made a steal in the backcourt They swept the Notre Dame hock­style of play kept the loud, capacity Shortly after the Alabama goal,
Irish regained command at that and fed Howard underneath to forge ey team 6-5 and 6-4 to win the crowds at the Van Braun Civic Cen­
Notre Dame co-captain Brent Chap­point, scoring the next seven points the final score. regular season title in the Central ter on the edges oftheir seats. A total man scored what appeared to be the (four by guard Laura Dougherty) to Both teams suffered the loss ofkey States Collegiate Hockey League. of 12,460 spectators looked on 
t ilird Irish goal. Chapman thought so 
take a 78-74 lead. players, and had to make adjust­Both teams came into the series with 
during the series. and so did the goal judge. who 
Detroit came right hack, as ments. For Detroit, center Lori Ten­perfect records. The Chargers were Controversy over officiating turned on the red 
light. But Howard hit a ten-foot baseline shot, nant, a 6-foot junior, missed the 14-0, while the Irish stood at 13-0. plagued Friday's game right down to 
Khedowri refused to acknowledge
hut Notre Dame's Carrie Bates was game due to a family emergency. For The only remaining league action the winning goal, the most disputed either Chapman or the goal judges,
t(Jllled by Titan forward Clarice for Notre Dame comes in two weeks 
of the night. Pearce, and hit both free throws to at the CSCHL playoffs which will be Saturday two from the net, play went on. 
see WOMEN, page 9 and when Moerner cleared the puck 
the teams were deadlocked at three after two periods, but in the final stanza the "The puck was clearly in the Chargers outscored the Irish 3-1, goal," said Chapman, "And when the capitalizing on t ce while shorthanded light goes on it is the officals job to and again on a powerplay. consult with the goal judge but he 
"The series was a real good one," wouldn't even do that." said Alabama-Huntsville head coach At 13:23 Dave Wallenstein Doug Ross. "Both teams were evenly teamed up with Finn and Kevin Mills matched and the competition was on a three-on-two break to tie the great." score at two. 
It was at the I 0:41 mark ofFriday's A minute later, Notre Dame's Rob third period, that t the brewing con­Ricci was slammed into the end troversy reached its peak. Alabama's hoards by Finn after the whistle. re­Mark Rogers skated into Notre dislocating the same shoulder that Dame netminder Tim Lukenda was injured December 9 against knocking him to the ice and pushing Lake Forest. What made the situa­his stick away. Mike Finn then used tion worse was that no penalty was the opportunity to fire the winning called. goal p ast a stickless, out-of-position "I wasn't even expecting it." said Lukenda. While attempting to plead Ricci. "It was a good hit and I just his case for interference with went shoulder first into the boards." referee Mike Khedowri, Lukenda Wallenstein gave the Chargers was thrown out of the game. their first lead of the night on a 
"He (Rogers) skated from the cor­breakaway :3:33 into the second ner and knocked me over and period. knocked my stick away," said Chapman then tied the score for Lukenda. "I tried to tell the offical, Notre Dame at 1 I :36. But Alabama and when I put my hands on his came back again to go on top 4-3 as chest he threw me out of the game." Bob Quaile put a blast through 
Two goals 56 seconds apart start­Lukenda's legs at 16:21. ing at the nine minute mark gave the Two Notre Dame goals from Mike 
The Notre Dame hockey team bad a rough time Tim Lukenda (shown above) was ejected from 
Irish a 2-0 lead. Dave Walldbillig Metzler and Steve Ely put the Irish 
in the South, as they dropped two to Alabama­Friday night's game on a questionable call. For 
beat Steve Moerner with a drive to 
Binningbam this ,;eekend, 6-5 and 6-4. Goalie more details, see Ed Domansky's story at left. see HOCKEY, page 9
his glove side. Then Adam Parsons 









