
l-----~-------­
Playoffs -page 10 

VOL XIX, NO. 29 the llllkpendl"lll ''udellI nt"\\ _,paper 'l"l"\ ing 111 ll n d.tml· .111d ,,lint 111;1n ·.., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1984 

Marquette dry driving club presents ND with 'good idea' 
ByMARYCAROLCREADON Commuter Student Association at become sponsors must pay S85 to StuffReporter Marquette. help cover promotional expenses and costs for ID cards. 
A dry driving duh similar to the Kujawski said he read about the "Businesses can show they care one that will he started at Marquette club this summer in The Milwauke~ about the community" by doing University is a good idea and Is being journal and thought It was a good something about reducing the num­
investigated, according to Student enough idea to be proposed to the ber ofdrunk drivers on the road, said Body Vke President Cathy David. student senate. The club was Kujawski. 
The program is to begin next founded by Don Todd, of Restaurant The I'm Driving Club, which has week at Marquette. Beverage Consultants,lnc.,as an or· been in effect for six months, has ganization to help lower the number over 50 restaurants and bars spon­"Jbe Marquette Tribune stated in ofalcohol-related traffic accidents. soring the program all over sout· iL~ Sept. 20 edition,"participants Kujawski received booster infor­heastern Wisconsin. Kujawski said who join the club can receive free mation and pamphlets about the the club is endorsed by the governor coffee or soft drinks at a restaurant club from Todd and decided to get of Wisconsin, the mayor of Mil­
or bar when they present a member­Involved. The senate passed a re­waukee, the National Department of ship card and agree to refrain from commendation supporting the club Transportation and the State Depart­alcoholic beverages In order to he and Student Union will distribute ID ment of Transportation, and both the driver (of two or more people) cards next week to those who would senators of Wisconsin. for the night." like to join. Kujawski said he hopes 
"Jbe I'm Driving Club Is not a students will bring the cards with Kujawski said he isn't worried prohibition movement but rather it them to restaurants and bars so about memberships being misused. stresses responsible drinking, said more businesses will be prompted "If people are concerned enough Marquette student Mike Kujawski, to join to club. to get involved, they are not as director of social activities for the Restaurants and bars that want to prone to abuse the system," he said. 
Ferraro amends disclosure forms; value of holdings, assets increased 
AMoclated Press dings the Democratic vice presiden­tained "no changes, just 
WASHINGTON -Rep. Geraldine tial nominee listed on the forms she corrections." Ferraro has filed amended financial filed for 1978-1983. She characterized the mistakes as disclosure forms adding hundreds of Overall, the newly disclosed "sloppy errors," such as misidentify-
thousands of dollars in income and items carried a value of between assets w what she previously re­$357,500 to $646,500. The revised ing the value ofan asset. ported under the Ethics in Govern· entries, many of them bank ac­"We had our new accountants go ment Act. counts, added from $95,400 to over the forms since 1979 and make 
Tht· new statements, made public $287,'500 to what she listed In her corrections,·• she told reporters yesterday. not only contain approxl­previous statements. before attending a private fund· matdy two dozen items reported to raiser. Congress for the first time but also Ferraro told reporters in Nash­"On Aug. 20, when I held that revalue upwardly a number of hoi· ville, Tenn., the amended forms con-press conference, I said there were 

First Dooley Award given to 1977 graduate 
Special to The Observer University, learn the Thai Ian· 
A Minneapolis graduate of guage and live with a Thai family Notre Dame, who spent four for five months. years working with refugees and The next year he traveled to displaced people in the Far East, the Bangladesh area of India will receive the first Dr. Thomas where he joined Holy Cross Dooley Award from the Alumni priests In missionary activities. Association. Michael Bowler, He next went to Calcutta where now an admissions officer at the he worked with Mother Theresa University of Minnesota, will be before moving on to New Delhi honored at a jan. 18, 1985, and assisting another missionary meeting of the Alumni Board. priest, working In rice paddies, 
The Dooley Award was estab­constructing huts and other ac· lished last year by the association tivltles. to honor a recent Notre Dame After returning to the United graduate displaying States for a vacation in 1978, he humanitarian concerns and ser­joined the American Council for vice to fellow citizens of the Immigration Services and was world. Only people graduating In sent to Singapore to assist the the past I 0 years are nominated "boat people," refugees fleeing for the award. their homeland in hazardous 
Before his graduation from craft. He spent the next 18 Notre Dame in 1977, Bowler months working with the starv· joined his parents, Mr. and Mrs. lng and dying in resettlement Robert Bowler, In sponsoring camps before joining the Catho· two Vietnamese families who lie Relief Services In Bangkok, fled their war-torn country. He again working with refugees helped during school vacations from Vietnam, Cambodia and In teaching English, in their con­laos. tacts with immigration aut· Returning home in I981, he horltles and In numerous other enrolled In the graduate school areas of physical needs. It was ofinternational relations at Johns this exposure to the refugee Hopkins University and today problem that prompted his deci­maintains his interest in sion to visit Thailand after worldwide refugee problems by graduation, enroll In Chalng Mal volunteer work in several areas. 
errors in my forms which I was ·; 
lkt.~rvtttt1UJ ueerrr
going to ftx. I have corrected them 
Praying for a victory
and filed the amended forms," she 
said. This fan's support is concrete. The Sacred Heart statue at Saint 
She said she had "claimed my Mary's is dressed and waiting for Bernie Kosar and the Miami 
same exemption" excluding her team. The statue can stand up to anyhurricane. Can the Irish do the 
husband's holdings and income same? 
from the form. 
Under the ethics act, members of 
Congress are allowed to list the 
Walters will moderate
values of their assets, income and 
liabilities in broad dollar ranges. 

both presidential debates 
The New York City Democrat, whose family finances created a poli­A.ssociated Press spokewoman Sandi Risser said the tical uproar earlier in the campaign, league Is not yet ready to announce amended her disclosure statements WASHINGTON · Barbara Walters them. less than three weeks after the of ABC and retired NBC newsman "This may be the first time there House ethics committee began a Edwin Newman wiU moderate the have been negotiations between the preliminary inquiry into whether rwo nationally televised presidential league and the National Football her original statements were In debates berween Walter Mondale League," Reiser joked about the time violation of the 1978 ethics law. and President Reagan on Oct. 7 and change. Kickoff time for the game 
Oct. 21, the League of Women was moved back to 8:30p.m., after 
The probe was Initiated after the Voters announced Monday. the debate's conclusion. Washington Legal Foundation, a The league also said the starting Under the format, there will be no conservative law group, complained time for the second and final debate, direct, head-to-head verbal con· to the committee that Ferraro's in Kansas City, Mo., was changed frontatlon between the candidates. original forms were incomplete and from 8 p.m. to 7 p.m. EST because of Instead, the panelists wlll ask a series wrongly claimed an exemption from a conflict with a National Football of questions and follow-up ques­disclosing financial information League game berween the Dallas tions. The debates wlll end with about her husband. Cowboys and the New Orleans closing statements from the candi· 
Saints. dates. 
When the investigation began, a Sander Vanocur, ABC's chief poli­The moderators and panelists source knowledgeable about the tical correspondent, will moderate were selected after lists of possible probe said that it seemed members the vice presidential debate be· candidates for both jobs were sub· of the ethics committee were rween Geraldine Ferraro and mitted to both the Mondale and prepared to drop the matter if Fer­George Bush on Oct. I I. Reagan campaigns. The league said raro amended her original state­the campaigns were given the right 
ments. The first of the 90-minute debates to object to reporters believed to be 
The panel's chairman, Rep. Louis will be held In Louisville, Ky., where hostile to either camp, but It was not Stokes, D-Ohio, had no immediate the candidates will be questioned by clear ifthey had veto power. comment on Ferraro's amended a panel of four journalists. The Vanocur, a former White House statements, according to Adrienne panelists for that event and the rwo correspondent for NBC, has been Gray, a spokeswoman for Stokes. others have been selected, but with ABC for the past seven years. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 3, 1984-page 2 
, t 
r 



In Brief 
A chartered ferry carrying more than 40 people on a birthday cruise sank yesterday after a collision with a tug towing a barge in a rain-swept Hamburg harbor. Police said a man drowned, 24 people were rescued and 21 were missing. Eight children and the captain of the ferry Martina were among the missing in the accident, which occurred near the junction of the harbor and the Elbe River. Authorities did not say how many people were aboard the tug. Inves­tigators said they had not determined ifthe weather was a factor. 
A studentprank backfiredon four Kansas Uni­versity students who conducted a mock kidnapping of another stu­dent last May. They found themselves facing local charges, which will be lifted from their records only after probation is served. The "kidnapping" was prompted by a roommate disagreement, and while the victim didn't press charges, the county district attorney did, saying someone could have been hurt in the "prank." The four students must pay restitution to the victim, plus court costs and a diversion fee. Each faces 11 months of probation and 10 hours of community service work. -The Observer 
Nearly 600 black students at Tennessee State University marched recently in support of racial segregation, pro­testing a state proposal to make TSU's student body 50 percent white by 1993. Some faculty joined the emotional protest march, prompted by the state's proposed answer to a federal court order to integrate the school. TSU is currently about 90 percent black. Many black students will be squeezed out by integration efforts, according to the protesters. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Toastmaster's International will meet 
every Wednesday night beginning tonight at 6:30 in Room 223 Hayes-Healy. The club is organized to improve its members' public speaking skills. -The Observer 
The OpenForum Series begins todayat the Fieldhouse Mall. Members of the Notre Dame community will have an opportunity to voice their concerns on pertinent political issues during the series, which is sponsored by the Student Govern­ment Lobby Commission and the Election Task Force. The series will run every Wednesday during October from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. Today's issue will be U.S. foreign policy. -The Observer 
Grace Hall residents are planning a 4s-hour marat­hon run beginning at noon tomorrow, for the benefit of the North­east Neighborhood. Cash pledges received by each runner will be given to the Northeast Neighborhood Center to pay residents' utility bills, help repair and improve their homes, and provide holiday meals. Football coach Gerry Faust will be the official starter for the marathon, which will begin and end in Stepan Mall. Basketball coach Richard "Digger" Phelps will be joined by City Attorney Rich Hill and other celebrities for the opening of the event. Pledges may be made by calling 239-5370, 239-5560 or 283-3028.-The Observer 
Junior Parents Weekend's executive commit­tee will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in LaFortune's Uttle Theatre. All those interestedare invited to attend. ­
The Observer 

Weather 
Mostly sunny and warm 
today, with the high near 75. Mostly clear and cool tonight, with a low of40 to 45. Sunny and cooler tomorrow, withahighof65 to 70. -AP 

The Observer ( U~~ W9 2-4000) is published Monday through friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( J20 per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
:j:o~:
'• 
I~ ! 
l I 
I ' i
l_ \ j 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ................. Guillermo Suarez Design Assistant.. ......................... Andy Saal Typesetters ..................................... Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor ............... Mark, Dan and Sarah Copy Editor .......................... Keith Harrison Sports Copy Editor ........... Theron Roberts Sports Spedal Layout....... Features Copy Editor ............................................... Ed Nolan Features Layout......................... Bob Henke ND Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design .................... AnnaMarie Furleigb 
John O'Connor Photographer .......................... Phil Deeeter 


Improvements to LaFortune don't have to cost a lot 
Last spring, the University decided to pour 113.8 mil­lion into renovating the existing student center, LaFortune. Those who had been hoping for a brand new center may be disappointed by the decision to improve LaFortune, which has very limited capabilities, but it seems that a completely new center is not in the Univer­sity's plans for quite a long time. 
Every year since 1981, the push for a new or im­proved student center has gained momentum. It was that year when then-Student Body President Don Mur­day and a group ofStudent Government representatives visited student centers of other schools such as Vil­lanova and Duke. Their study recommended a new cen­ter, or, at the very least, major improvements in LaFortune. 
Jim McDonnell, the former director ofstudent activi­ties, was a big supporter of improvements and worked with the Student Government toward that end. Their work finally paid off this year when Father David Tyson, 
Mike Sullivan 
Sport::? f_d~ 
lns•rle Wednesda 


early, the shortened hours may not mean much to you, but to those ofus who are always studying late, after the library closes and our roommates are asleep, this is a major inconveruence. The Nazz is an awful place to study. The lighting is terribly inadequate, the place is hot and muggy in the summer and a steambath in the winter, and, when the heat is turned on, it sounds like a boiler room. The well-lit, comfortable first floor would be a great place to study late at night. 
Granted, it may cost a little to keep the lights on all 
vice president for student af­night, but the extra money fairs, agreed to many oftheir used in the vending suggestions. machines would make up 
So, as it now stands, the some of the difference. The $3.8 million worth of im­security risk isn't that great, provements on LaFortune either. How many people will begin this April and con­are loud, rowdy and tinue for about a year. The destructive at four in the plans are impressive. They morning? If the school is that include shops and possibly concerned about vandalism, laundry machines in the why don't they put one of basement, increases in the the security people on duty building space through addi­in the building instead of tions above the Huddle, and, sending them out to look in hopefully, some type of the bushes around campus? glass-enclosed restaurant on the main floor. There are other reasons 
Admittedly, it isn't the for shutting down most of same as a brand new build­LaFortune at night, but none ing, but the planned im­ofthem are very convincing. provements are definitely a The University has ex­

step in the right direction. 
Hopefully, though, everybody won't sit back and wait until April for some changes to be made. After all, there are some changes that can be made before then that would not cost a great deal of money. . 
The most obvious change would be in~e hours during which LaFortune is open to students. At the pres­ent time, the main floor of the building, including the vending machines and copy machine, and the Ballroom on the second floor are being locked up at about 12:30 or I a.m. Both men's bathrooms and all but one of the women's are frequently locked, too. Undoubtedly, cost considerations and security concerns are major reasons for the change (that section of the building has been open until about 2 a.m. in recent years); however, these concerns are not so great as to warrant driving students into the basement which is the only part ofthe building that is open 24 hours during weekdays. 
Ifyou are the type who studies early and goes to bed 
Need LSU Tix 
Call collect eves. 504-291·0642 


TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
pressed concern that too many people stay up all night studying instead ofsleep­ing, but I know that I for one will not change my habits no matter how inconvenient the school makes it to stay up late. 
There is also a concern about too many off-campus students using the building as a bedroom. This is a legitimate concern, but most people who fall asleep in the building are those who are studying. Besides, it is harder to sleep in the bright light of the main floor than it is to fall asleep in the Nazz. And sleeping people are generally not big security risks. 
There are other changes that can be made now, such as making the television sets more available to students and cleaning the building more frequently, where benefits are more important than costs. These are easy changes that would make pre-renovation LaFortune feel much more like a student center. 

•
a un1que opportunity for 
Math/Science 
(Majors/Minors/ Aptitudes) 
,, 
For you and for the world. Peace Corps will combine your education with training to prepare you for a volunteer position in: • Education • Fisheries • Health • Agriculture • Forestry or other areas. You'll meet new people, learn a new language, experience a new culture and gain a whole new outlook. And while you're building your future, you'll be helping people in developing countries learn the basics of technological advancement. 
See our Films: Oct. 3rd at St. Mary's Room 303-Haggar College Center at 7 p.m. 
Oct. 4th at Notre Dame Multi Purpose Room Center for Social Concerns at 7 p.m. 




The Observer Wednesday, October 3, 1984-page 3 

'Jbc Observer/Phil Deeter 

A panel of international students discuss "The Relevance of Non-Violence in the World Today" 
last night in the Center for Social Concerns. The panel discussion commemorated~ Mahatma Gandhi's 115tb birthday. 

A & L, Business to be focus of day 
By MARC A. ANTONETII 
StaffReporter 
Representatives from over 30 companies will speak to students at the sixth annual Career Day tomor­row in LaFortune Ballroom from noon to 4 p.m. 
The company representatives will present information on the career they are involved in, according to Paul Reynolds of Career and Place­ment Services. Featured careers in· elude advertising, public relations, graphic design and social services, he said. 
The focus of Career Day is on stu­dents enrolled in the College ofArts and Letters or the College of Busi­
ness  Administration  because  no  
such  opportunity had existed  for  
them in the past, Reynolds said.  

Career Day best serves sop­homores, juniors and seniors that are looking for more information about possible careers, according to Reynolds. Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are invited, he said. 

The company representatives will not be recruiting or simply distribut· ing company material because Career Day is an information gather­ing session, he said. 
General Motors, Indiana Bell, E.F. Hutton and Xerox are some of the companies that will be represented on Career Day, according to Reynolds. 

United Way prepares for its week-long drive 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
News Staff 
Tom Lezynsld, co-chairman ofthis year's United Way drive, spoke to the Hall Presidents' Council last night regarding the many plans for the week-long collection which begins Monday. 
In addition to hall collections, proceeds for this week's showing of the James Bond thriller Octopussy will go to the United Way drive. Also, the Senior Bar will be having a "Monday Night Football" evening for those 21 and older with dona· tions being taken at the door for the charity. 
Details for World Food Day were given to the HPC by Student Body Vice President Cathy David. The Oc· tober 15 to 16 event will consist ofa meal which is typical ofthose served in some third-world nations and will be served on alternating days at each of the dining halls. World Food Day is sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition and is part ofa world-wide event. 
The Millions Against Multiple Sclerosis campaign was also dis­cussed. Notre Dame was picked as one of eight test universities by the MS Foundation for new fund-raising efforts. The university which raises the most money for the charity will be a part of a major concert sponsored by the video music chan­nel MlV. 
The HPC discussed last Saturday night's food fights in the dining halls. They agreed to issue a statement which, in part, states "the respect 
and  appreciation  they  have  for  
dining hall employees".  
Peggy  Hess,  president  uf  

Pasquerilla West, said, "We should be grateful for what we have." 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 




l~t\'S ~'.~ 


• 

Please
\\\\\-" 



support
\\ FORMEN AND WOMEN 

AMERICAN
RESTAURANT & LOUNGE

Student cuts always $6 with ID 
1033 LAKE STREET 
NILES. MICHIGAN 


CANCER 
616/683-7474 

BRONZED 

SOCIETY®
Buy 2 cards of

and 
8 sessions and gelBEAUTIFUL the third cord free. 
a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition 
Shore It with a Suntan Beds by the 

for over 30 years.
friend.

Wolff System 
Aerobics with Jane Brown 


Please
Mon · Fri7-8 p.m. nails and silk wraps· perfect 
Professional Acrylic sculptured 
New Mid-Eastern Dance 
I 
support the 

solution tor nail biters. 
classes with Ruby Jazavre Call Krlsty tor an appointment. 
Mon evenings 7 · 8 p.m. 
JVSTASK ANYONE! 
AMERICAN

Specializing in nail artistry. 
$2.00 per session 
WCANCER
Beginners classes available 
'SOCIETY~ 

CALL 234-5350 143 Dixie Way South, Roseland, South Bend 
FAMOUS LAST WORUS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS 
"AIY' !filii OK Ill tll"il't•!" ·W!Iats ati·ll' lx•t•l-xt"


r-----------------------------T 
1 Perfect For Tailgaters "/)ir/ !filii /llll't•ftHIII/11/'/1 f11tfl•i11k!" 
"/'111 JH'1.1i·dly.flllt'."

I PARTY SOBS 
"AI'/' !filii illtiii!J N}I(!JX' Ill ril"il't·~·

I 
·r,.,. lll'l't·r fi'/1/wllt·l:· 

I 3 Meats, 2 Cheeses I "lllti11k yu11'1'1' il11rl afi•ll' lm/1111/llf."'
&. Choice of Toppings

I "}(Ill kiddi11,/ ('(Ill drilY' I with lll!ft'!/1'-~ dnw•rl."
3 feet serves 20·25 ... $35.00
I 
I 4 feet serves 25-30 ... $43.00 ·};,,·,.1. !tad IIHIIIIIII'h !11 dri11k. 
lt'11111' rl1it•e."

5 feet serves 30-35 ... $52.00 
".\'ulxKIIf dril't·.~ IllIf cn1· hill/Ill'."

6 feet serves 35-40 ... $60.00 

ALSO: MEAT TRAYS, CHEESE TRAYS & SALADS 
the 




DELI 

1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KIU A FRIENDSHIR

Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78 
L------------255-7797 clip &save-.-----------.. 



The Observer 
Wednesday, October 3, 1984-page 4 

Stepan patronage not limited I to chemistry, included arts 
By MIRIAM HILL In addition to owning a successful Chemistry Hall, a research facility StaffReporter chemical company, Stepan also dedicated in 1982. maintained an active interest in the Stepan served as a member of the 
The former University Trustee arts. He was one of the founding College of Arts and Letters Advisory primarily responsible for the con­members of Chicago's Lyric Opera, Council from 1954 to 1959 and struction ofa research facility and an and served as its president from joined Notre Dame's Associate activity center on campus has died 1959 to 1961. Stepan was also presi­Board of Lay Trustees in 1958. He at age 75. dent of the Lyric Opera Center for received an honorary law degree 
Notre Dame alumnus and bene­American Artists for nine years and from Notre Dame in 1963. factor Alfred Stepan Jr. died of can­acted as trustee of both the Or­University President Father cer early Monday morning. chestral Association ~d Ravinia Fes-Theodore Hesburgh said Stepan was 
tival Association. "one ofthe favorite trustees. He was Stepan graduated from Notre In addition to his involvement in always reaching for the stars and he 
i Night at the Drive In ~ 
Dame in 1931 and later founded the Chicago's cultural life, Stepan con­did that with a great interest in this Stepan Chemical Company of tributed a great deal of his time and place. He will be missed a great 
~ * 
Northfield, Ill., which produces in­money to academic and cultural ac­deal." 
~ * 
gredients for soap products and raw tivities at Notre Dame. He and his Stepan is survived by his wife, 
£ Thursday Oct. 4 7:oo,-? ~ 
materials for the plastics industry. wife, Mary Louise, underwrote the Mary Louise, his seven children and Stepan said he got "the bug for busi­construction of Stepan Center, one 25 grandchildren. Hesburgh will ness" at the age of 12 when he of the nation's earliest geodesic concelebrate the Funeral Mass at 1 ~ 3 Movies: Gremlins ~ earned $250 operating refreshment domes, in 1962. p.m. Wednesday in Faith, Hope, and ~ * stands and a canoe-renting business He also donated n.5 million Charity Church, Hill and linden tAdmission: $ 3.00 TwUight Zone ~ during the summer. toward the construction of Stepan Streets, Winnetka, Ill. 
~ Pay at the gate Up The Creek ~ 
~ * 
r ~ *
Peddler of satellite photographs ~ ~ See your hall rep for directions * ~ 
~********************************.:
one of two charged with espionage 

................Tiielri&ii..iarCi;ii·;..~·········..

Associated Press with selling secret U.S. satellite showed him soliciting a full-time job 
photos of a Soviet aircraft carrier with Jane's, the publisher of aut­
WASHINGTON-The FBI charged being built at a Black Sea naval horitative books on armaments. an East German woman yesterday shipyard to Jane's Defense Weekly in with spying for the Soviet Union and London, where it was published. While he worked at the intelli­the grandson of a prize-winning Morison's case marked the first gence center in Suitland, Md., American historian with selling U.S. time the government has used the outside Washington, Morison also satellite photographs ofa Soviet war­espionage statute to charge an indi· was the S5,000-a-year, part-time U.S. ship to a London military journal. vidual who was selling or giving editor for Jane's Fighting Ships. 
secrets not to a foreign government The two were arrested Monday but to a corporation. The FBI recovered the photos night at airports here and in New from Jane's and said it found 
Dial283-4242 to place 

York in the unrelated cases. He is the grandson ofSamuel Eliot Morison's fingerprint on one. 
an order

Alice Michelson, 67, of East Ger­Morison, who won Pulitzer Prizes many, was allegedly one of the most for biographies of Columbus and of In London, Richard Coltart, a elusive types of spies, a so-called John Paul Jones. The elder Morison, spokesman for Jane's, refused to say 
"illegal," who arrives here as an ordi­who died in 1976, taught history at where the photographs were ob­Order corsages aud wrapped nary citizen not attached to an em­Harvard from 1915 to 1955 and is tained. The FBI agents said Morison 
flowers in advance 

bassy and not given diplomatic widely known for The Oxford His· denied taking the photographs or 
C ~ ~Two days notice required for corsages 

status. tory of the American People. providing them toJane's. 
.. ..... ;;;;;;.-;;,,,-;;;u.,mi.................................................................

An alleged spy courier, she was said to have been trapped by a U.S. 
A court affidavit by FBI and naval Army sergeant who pretended to 
intelligence agents described work for the Soviets. 
Morison as dissatisfied with his job as a Soviet amphibious ship analyst In the other case, Samuel Loring at the Naval Intelligence Support Morison, 40, of Crofton, Md., was Center. Letters extracted by the FBI charged under the espionage statute from the ribbon on his typewriter 
AVX Corporation would like to wel.come back all students. especially those whrJ are planning 
to graduate this year The start ol your final yeat in college
bringsabout new decisions inthe plan­ning ol your future. AVX Corporationwould like to be a part of your career plan.
University Ministry 
We're known internationally as the technological leader in the designand manufacture of monolithicoffers ceramic capacitors. Due to the growth and ex~nsion of our Myrtle Beach. South C~lina facility, we can
Pre-Cana Programs 
otter outstanding career opportuni­ties to those stutients with a B.S 
which meet diocesan regulations 

degree in mechanical. industrial. chemical, elec­across the country 
tronic and material engineering. We otter an attractive salary, generous companybenefits. and exceptional growth potential We com­pliment our work environment wtth a professionaland stimulating atmosphere set in a resort community
li!estyle Join a company where your talents and ambitions can be recognized.

PMI-Host Couple 
Pre-Cana 
We hope to see you on campus during our Fall recruiting.






Showcase 
Wednesday, October 3, 1984 -page 5 

The Observer/Chailanya Panchal 
White mouse at Galvin Life Science germ free laboratory 
Life in a ger01-free environ01ent 

by Tim Farrell 
features staff writer 
N
otre Dame, a germ-free environment. 

My name Is Ricky, although few students know 
it, I wa.' part of the world's first germ-free laboratory. 
Bt'fore I continue. let me explain how it is that I am 
writing to you. 
I happen to be a brown rat, and last summer the 
Notre Dame labs decided not to accept us Into their 
program anymore. Being on top of things, I under­

stood we were to be trucked to the power plant. some 
of my roomates thought they were going to make us 
shovel coal, I knew better. 
When the truck was pulling out ofour "dorm," I 

managed to push the top of my cage open, and excape. 
Before the driver knew what was happening, I was on 
his shoulder, teeth barred close to his jugular vein. 
"Take me to the abandoned Drewry's Brewery, or 
else ... " I squeaked In a threatening tone. 

I had some relatives In the old brewry, so I knew that if 
I found them, I could find a spot to crash. Apparently 
some student freinds of mine lived in the area, so this 
would give me a base to work from. 
Fortunately, the driver followed my orders, and I 
leaped out of the window and scampered down a 

sewer. Needless to say my relatives were still alive and 
well, thus began the welcome home festivities. My 
relatives had some good news and bad. The bad news 
was that a gang of tough Chicago cats had been hired 
by the brewry to frighten our coalition. The good 

news was that the students had moved in to the house 
next to the brewry warehouse, so I was sure I could 
find accomodations for the winter. 
I have been living with the students for about a 
month now, I keep the place clean while they are at 

school, and have gotten pretty good at this wordproc­
cessor. But throughout my stay I have heard a lot 

about on campus living, and must say it reminds me of 
my life at the Lab. 

Many generations ago, my fore fathers were first accepted to Notre Dame. They were exceptional athletes, scurrying through the brewry and all. Great grandpa easily got a full ride from the tread mill team. His son also went here. Gramps was one of the best breeders ND has ever had a ny of his children got Into the gcrm-frc envirement or various research study projects. 
I too was born in the germ-free area, however, for some reason the lab was short of tread runners last year. With my strong geneaology, I was quickly recruited for the team. 

For the first few months the routine was pretty standard, the Rat Attendant cleaned our cages once a week and brought us to the treadmill daily. Strangely we were never allowed to be with the females. This is strange, because I remember when I was younger, living with some girls, and that was befort• puberty. 
But this routine soon changed when we got a student R.A. he realized that we were not old en,mgh, or mobile enough (rats are not allowed cars) to buy akohol. So one Friday he filled our water bottle with beer. 

By the end of the month, all the other brown rats on our shdfhad also asked for similar favors, so we were all partying pretty heavily. 'Inc white rats, ofcourse, would have nothing to do with us. 'Ibey were all into growing their cancers and keeping "uncontrolled" substances out of their system. 
The Observer/Chaitanya Panchal 
He doesn't know what he is missing 
Unfortunately some of my mates started eating barbituates to help them get better scores on the treadmill after a rough weekend. They got better scores alright, but they also got really jumpy. My cage mate from UCLA's program flinched so badly when the RA surprised him that the top ofthe cage popped off. Being the oppurtunitists that the rest ofus are we all jumped down to the floor and tried to escape. Eventually the boss came in and one ofthe mates tried to bite him when the man grabbed his tall. 
This was the beginning of the end for he got the impression that we were too fierce, and I soon found about our move to the power plant. 
Well I've got to go, I hope some ofthe stories I've heard about life on campus is not quite the same as my experience was. But maybe someday I'll drop by YOUR room and observe for myself. 
Phil Scott Flora 

Night owls encourage more to join their flock 
by Mike Sullivan 
features staff writer 
I
t's 3:30a.m. Do you know where your roommate is? 
One ofthe great things about college life is that there is no 
curfew. When at home with your parents, you must be back in the 
house at some pre-determined time (set in stone by your parents, 
ofcourse). At school, it is a different story, you can stay up late no 
matter how unhealthy it is. 

Not everybody at Notre Dame takes advantage of the privilege of staying up late. There are four groups ofstudents who don't partake in the thrill oflate-night/early-morning life: I) freshmen, used to curfews, who don't know any better, 2) those people who like to go to bed early and get up early, 3) those people who need more than seven or eight hours ofsleep a night, and 4) those people who get their studying done early and don't have to stay up all night cramming (the most despicable group ofall). 
As a member of the late-night group, I'd like to inform these people ofthe thrills and excitements they're missing by leading a healthy life, with the hope that more of them will come over to the late-night side. 
What to do and where to do it -Some people stay up late because they actually enjoy the late-night/early-morning hours. They'll sit in their rooms anu listen to music on headphones (quiet hours, remember?), read a book, or just keep their friends company. Most late-nighters stay awake late for a purpose -studying. Some like the quiet that they find at four in the morning. Most, however, find themselves victims of that delayed-action disease called procras· tination. There's nothing like blowing offa paper until the night before it's due. If you've never done it before, you have no idea what you're missing. 'lbe camaradery that exists among people who have waited to the last minute to study or write a paper is a beautiful thing. 
Late-night/early-morning activities usually are limited to hall study lounges and the Nazz in LaFortune. Mostlate-nighters like to study in the hall because they don't want to leave the building or because they need to stay close to a typewriter. lbe Nazz, however, is one of the most interesting places to study on campus. Sure, the lighting is the pits. Sure, it can get as hot as a sauna. Sure, winter forces you to put up with the musical sounds of the heating ducts. Sure, some pretty odd people hang around there, but the place has character. Where else can you study to the sounds of snoring people? Where else can you study in a room filled with cigarette smoke? As for the thrills It provides, the Nazz ranks just behind Notre Dame Stadium during a football game. 
How to sleep efficiently -Welcome to the world ofcreative sleeping. Late-night people have invented a system known as tag-team sleeping which Involves the use offriends who also are taking advantage of the thrill of the late-night life. 
Very few people can stay awake and alert for an entire night, so there had to be some method that allowed a person to sleep for short periods of time throughout the night. Thus, the birth of tag-team sleeping. At about 2 or 2:30a.m., the first person takes his turn. "Wake me up in 45 minutes," he says. Forty-five minutes later when his friend wakes him up, he says, "Give me another 10 minutes." An hour later, his friend wakes him up and takes his turn. This process repeats itself through the night or until the person who is supposed to be awake falls asleep on the job. This usually means that the papers are going to be a little late. 
What to eat -The late-night person doesn't have a great selection offood, but the food that is available is all that you could possibly need. Ifyou have the money and the means of transportation, you can head out to Denny's for a late-night Grand Slam orJumbo Denny's Combo. The Grand Slam is an outstanding value for only Sl.99 until the end ofOctober. Ifyou can't feast in plea~ure at Denny's, you can feast on junk foods like Munchos, Coke (or Pepsi ifyou are a member ofa new generation), candy bars, and Suzy-Q's. What more could you possibly want? Well, there's always No-Doz, but I don't.recommend taking them because they can cause you to act strangely ifyou take too many. 
The Day After -On television, The Day After wa~ not very pleasant. Nuclear bombs can ruin a nice day. In real life, though, The Day After a late-night excursion is not as bad as its reputation would indicate. What's so bad about going to bed at noon and waking up at dinnertime? After all, you're fresh to stay up late for the second night in a row. And what's so bad about being numb through a political theory da~s? After staying up all night, you might even think that Hobbes and Rousseau are funny (after being up all night, everything is funny). Besides, if your paper is finished, what else matters? 
Hopefully, those people who have yet to experience the plea,ure oflate-night living finally will realize the joys they have been missing. Ifyou're going on to some type ofgrad school, it is great practice to get used to late-night life now. Just remember, your college years are the only chance you'll get to enjoy the experi­ence. 



View~_O_l_·_n_t_________
w_ed-ne-sd_.ay.._,o_ct-ob-er_3_,1-98_4--_...pa-ge-6 


Archbishop dines with the rich and the famous 
Lately, the puckish former Governor of Ohio, Jack Gilligan, has been slipping me the outre invitations which come his way. The most recent is to an~nner in New York city. The ha invitation, embossed with an impressive-looking crest, names the Waldorf Astoria as the venue, re­quests that dress be formal and sets the price tag at $300 a plate or $3000 for a party often. The host: His Excellency The Most Reverend John). O'Connor, Archbishop of New York. Now this is the apostle ofJesus who has been doing much finger-wagging and hurling im­precations at the pro-choice crowd during past weeks. 
In his defence the Archbishop would say that the dinner Is to benefit the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Inc. which supplies 
Ann Pettifer 
guest column 
monies to various charities. Which charities? Ah, we must leave that to the discretion ofthe wise Archbishop. Given the recent track record of the Vatican Bank and the fiscal hanky-panky in the late Cardinal Cody's Archdiocese, I would feel happier with honest disclosure. That, ofcourse, is not the Church's practice. 
But, beneficiaries aside, my beef remains. The style is all wrong: it certainly represents a novel departure from the wayJesus did things. Jesus taught the ethic oflove and stewardship to the great unwashed by keeping company with them, dining and boozing with them. Some of Jesus' favorite dinner companions were prostitutes. Our Archbishop, however, prefers the Knights of Malta and top honchos (often the same people). 
Does this prelate (whose bearing is already that ofa Prince of the Church) believe that he can teach and convertfrom the Alfred E. Smith High Table? Will he sound convincing to the pregnant, poor woman at her wit's end in the Bronx? And it is not just the ritzy clerical style which handicaps our pricey, pontificating pr­elate in aiding and consoling poor and preg­nant women. His authoritarian, overweening male style -what we call, at our house, his 'sheer man-i-ness' -also gets in the way. A former military chaplain, Rear-Admiral O'Connor loves to sport his medals!~ 

Some years ago, the distinguishe Germal moral theologian, Bernard Haring, rem that by incarnatingJesus as male, God was, in all likelih<>jJd, giving men a new model of maleness. God, it seems, was tired of high­noon aggression and swagger. The Word was out -no more phylacteries! So Jesus set forth his style by washing feet; the new model was the servant (the discipleship of equals) not the conquistador. 
Where then did it all go wrong? How have we managed to produce this overbearing, princely prelacy? Is it, perhaps, the way the Church compensates men for mandatory celibacy? Surrender sex, my sons, and the world is your oyster. 
It's all rather sad really, this costume, collar­wearing, crozier-toting stuff. On the one hand it keeps these men trapped in a world of illu­sion and fantasy, and distances them from the pastoral needs ofthe really poor. On the other hand it reinforces patriarchal power which confounds the meaning of the Incarnation. 
Perhaps we need to take down and dust off the old idea of giving scandal when dealing with these ecclesiallords. It should have been used last December when the Vatican's Car­dinal Casaroli dropped by California to open the Vatican Art Treasures Exhibition. At a for­malluncheon after the opening, Casaroli and local prelates entertained California's well­heeled and well-connected. The menu read like an epicurean's dream and, God help us, a clerical flunky was discretely positioned to coach the guests on how to address these lords ecclesial. At one level harmless, Gilbert and Sullivan comic opera nonsense, you might say; not so, for among the guests were power­ful vineyard owners -men who had done their best in the seventies to break the will of the United Farmworkers' Union, led by Caesar Chavez, a devout Catholic and ordained dea­con. 
And so on the 18th October, Archbishop John O'Connor will dine with the famous and the powerful while our pregnant woman in the Bronx turns over her options. Abortion? Welfare maternity? Throwing herself off Brooklyn Bridge? Bon appetit, Seigneur. 
Ann Pettifer is a Notre Dame alumna. 


New alcohol policy has brought choices to ND 
A few years ago, the parents in a large family decided to unplug the television set for one week. The mother in the family admitted to some ofthe family that it really wasn't her idea but that she had to go along with her husband. Some family members pouted and indicated that they were bored since there was nothing to do. Others spent much oftheir time think­ing about the programs they were going to watch that night only to have to be reminded that the television was not to be used. Still, others challenged the parents indicating that everyone else could watch as much television 
Patrick W. Utz 
guest column 
as they wanted, that the decision was capri­cious, and that they would likely experience a stress reaction without the relaxing in.lluence of television. Finally, some members decided to find other things to do. 
Very often we talk about the Notre Dame "family." While many students see this in a positive way, others recoil the extension of parental roles to college life away from home. As a psychologist, I find that notion of family orfamily system as a useful tool in understand­ing how groups or organizations deal with change. Systems theory tells us that a change in any part ofa system affects the totality. One can accomplish as much by rearranging two or three cards as by shuftling the whole deck. 
Amidst all of the discussion of the al~ohol policy, I find one theme-the idea that choices are gone -to be disturbing. Quite the opposite seems to be true. At the present time, every­one is making choices. The choices included behaviors and beliefs. Some people are choos­ing to go off campus to drink. Some are choosi­ing to complain. Others are choosing to do nothing while others are choosing to be active in planning new activities. Much like the fam­ily without television, members of our com­munity are making choices. Some are choosing to challenge the decision -"look at the alums, look at the faculty." Some are sug­gesting that the new policy may be psyc­hologically harmful to our community. 

Similarly, we are all making choices about the beliefs we will hold about the situation. If we choose to believe that we have nothing to do, we will feel bored. If we believe that we have been unjustly deprived, we will feel angry. If we choose to believe that there are many other things to do besides drink, we will feel challenged to discover them. 
The new alcohol policy brought change to our community. Such change will affect all of us in one way or another. As individuals, however, we mediate the impact of that change by our chosen beliefs and behaviors. Our satisfaction or dissatisfaction, our anger or our motivation are not the result ofchanges that have occurred in our community. They are the result of what we choose to believe and how we choose to behave as a result of those changes. 
Patrick W. Utz is the Director ofthe Office ofCounseling and Psychological Services at Notre Dame. 


In competition no one wins all of the time 
Competition. It means many different things to many different people. 
To the economist, competition is a perfec­tion to be sought after. It promotes quality, efficiency, innovation, and low prices. To the athlete, competition is the ultimate test ofath­letic prowess. It allows the athlete to measure himselfagainst all others. It separates the men from the boys, the champions from the also rans, the winners from the losers. 
Competition is also in many ways a uniquely American phenomenon: unique in 
John Neblo 
outside, looking in 

its pervasiveness and its intensity. Foreign stu­dents at Notre Dame are often struck by the appearent omnipresence of competition on this campus. Classroom competition, athletic competition, interhall competition, and even a perverse kind of social competition are merely a local manifestation ofa more general national characteristic. 
On the positive side, the fiercely competi­tive nature of Americans has helped this country overcome tremendous obstacles. The fact that railroads criss-cross the con­tinent, sky-scrapers dominate our skylines, and space-shuttles orbit the earth, is largely in part due to a national character that thrives on a challenge. Perhaps the severity ofmere exis­tence bred a kind of hardiness into the im­migrants who settled this country, the vestiges of which we see today as the Ameri­can love ofcompetition. 
There is, however, a dark side to this com­petitive instinct. At the age offive or six years old, American boys and girls learn first hand the rigors of competition, often times with tragic results. We have all seen or heard ofthe adult little-league coaches who tell their less talented six year old athletes to stay home on game day so the coaches can use the better players for the entire game. Whether it is baseball, football, or swimming the young ath­letes learn the importance of winning, often times before they learn how to tie their shoes. As they grow older these early lessons will be reinforced by report cards, rank-in-class, and pressure to keep up with the jones'. 
One day, these young people will compete in the very special world ofthe college senior. The competition might take the form of GPA's, MCAT's, LSAT's, GRE's, or job inter­views. When that time comes, it is very impor­tant that he or she know something about competition; something he or she may not have learned yet: every competition has win­ners and losers, and nobody wins all the time. 
Believe it or not, there are some people who don't know about losing. They don't know because they have never lost. They may have seen other people lose, but they have never done it themselves. For these people, who have been raised with the notion that, "America only loves a winner," it is often hard to deal with failure. All of us here at Notre Dame, but especially we seniors, must take a close look at ourselves this semester. We need to develop a stong sense of self-worth, but a self-worth apart from our academic, athletic, and social successes. We need to realize that, if in fact, "nice guys finish last," it is quite enough to be a nice guy. 
john Neblo is a senior economics major in the College ofArts & Letters and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Perceptions can become realities 
Dear Editor: 
It was with deep sadness that I read Janet Tabit's article, "Bridging the Wide Gap be­tween NO and SMC," in your September 21st issue. I had hoped that the practice ofcharac­terizing individuals would have fallen out of fashion. When I arrived at St. Mary's in 1972 I was convinced that Notre Dame attracted and nurtured social and emotional midgets who were incapable of any thoughts beyond beer and football. It was only after working with several young men within the cooperative theatre department that my perceptions were modified. I discovered in their community an intelligence and sensitivity against which 
could warm my spirit and soothe my soul. 
Our perceptions can become our realities and can thus affect our relations with those around us. like Virginia Woolf, we who have chosen St. Mary's are seeking a room of our own. It is not a room which seeks to exclude however, but which welcomes voices in thoughtful and challenging dialogue. St. Mary's and Notre Dame have at their cores the teachings and examples ofChrist. Ifthese two communities could break through the faulty perceptions that separate them, the synergism could create a network of ideas and actions unimagined within an ordinary scholastic en­vironment. 
Kathleen C. Rink Naperville, IL 



"ie~P-~O_i_n_t_____________________________________________ ___P_a_g__
wed_n_e_sd_a~y_,o_c_t_o_be_r_3_,_1_98_4 e7 

Baton twirling is a pleasant experience 
lJcar Editor: 
This kttt·r is in response to "ND Summer­Where the Real Action Is," by Cat Francis. 
She presented summer life on the ND campus in a unique way, not only was she con­descending to those of us who took part in American Youth on Parade, but also to the spirit and sport ofbaton twirling. 
As a member of A YOP for many years, I found her article to be degrading and insulting to the many girls who have spent years in training for what is America's largest and most prestigiou'> baton twirling event. 
As for the "strange and arcane rituals that then take place In the ACC," I would Invite Francis to be a witness to any ofthese events. I am positive she would be in for a pleasant surprise. 
"America's Little Sweethearts," work very hard to achieve this honor. We would like to see Francis give It a try. 
Deanna McBride Regina South Hall 
Gerry Faust will do the job with class 
DearEditor: 
Perhaps I should hesitate to offer an opinion, being a new parent to the Notre Dame community, and a Protestant at that, but I feel I must speak my mind. 
I'm not sure that you all realize what Notre Dame looks like to the rookie. The campus Is beautiful, the academics strong, the adminis­tration is friendly and the students are one great bunch ofcaring people. 
Why do some step so far out ofline so as to take cheapshots at a fine man like Gerry Faust? Seems to me that the man is doing everything he can to perform his job, his attitude is strong and positive, he presents a powerfully good image. 
Do we all give as much effort to our jobs as he does? Should he be crucified for losing a football game? It could be that the one thing he really needs to help him do what's ex­pected of him Is the very thing we won't give him our support and confidence. 

Notre Darre has such a good name across this vast country-don't let a few empty cans rattle that dignity. When you do that, what you really do is feed ammunition to those people who are jealous of the class of Notre Dame. Gerry Faust will get the job done and he will do it with class. And if he doesn't win enough, he knows that someone else will. 
joeSchmitt jayrevtlle, NJ. 

U.S. support of Israel based on politics 
DearEditor: 
Why must American Jews have such big mouths? How come U.S. foreign policy doesn't support Ireland's existence like Is­rael's? Oh yeah, the Irish get drunk and bomb bobbles like savages while Israelis only preside over "a massacre" of a Christian refugee camp in Lebanon. Pardon me for as­suming there wasn't much ofa difference. 
"Well", says the American Jew, "lobby like we do, there are plenty ofIrish In U.S. capable of initiating some support". Sorry but I don't promote violence as a means to an end, nor do Isupport the death penalty, ifyou know what I mean? 
It Is not right for me to say Ireland exists separate from England and that's all that mat­ters. What matters is why and how its exis­tence is achieved. Jus.tify yourself; why does Israel have to exist? Because they are God's chosen; if others die in the support of Israel, tough! By brute, savage means and by indirect methods of annoyance Israel hurts their neighbors and the U.S. takes the blame and the blows. I can hear them now, "America you promised Israel undivided support way back when she was founded. You can't fail us now." 
B.S. Take my hand and put it in the fire over and over, finally, I will get burned. America, wake up! At the U.N. you were the only nation vetoing condemnation for Israel's Mid-East ac­tions. Why? 
This seemingly complex situation is easily solved: quit holding your hand out so Israel can put It in the Middle East fire! Let the Jews pay the consequences oftheir actions. Or else start supplying the IRA tomorrow! In that 
~"':\\~~~-a~ 
ti':\' ' .' 
~~~ 
r 
I 
INADEQUATE 

INlHU\JENCE TO BlAME FOR BEIRUT DISASTERS-REAGAN 
case, I will change my citizenship, the Irish will need my help, or maybe the Sandinistas even more. 
Michael McCabe Senior 

Decio Foundation will aid Arts & Letters 
DearEditor: 
The letter entitled "The Declo Foundation is a Shakey Base" (Sept. 27) by James Lee was a public venting of anger and frustration in an unproductive manner. I cannot empathize with Lee in this particular instance but I can, as most of us can, sympathize with his anger and frustration. Injustices are committed against all of us every now and then -and surely they will occur more frequently once we ace released into this world of survival. Perhaps, Lee, a phone call would have rec­tified your situation; perhaps if you had tried another address. Maybe attempting to contact the "head honcho" himselfand explaining the apparent neglect would have helped -not only yourself but others experiencing the same frustration. It really does not appear to me that you "...thorougly experienced the Declo Foundation." Because your two at­tempts at soliciting a response from the Foun­dation proved fruitless you definitively conclude that ( 1) the Declo Foundation is "bogus" and therefore lacking any altruistic value for anyone, (2) the Foundation is a tax haven, (3) Notre Dame was grossly unjus­tified in naming a building after the couple who gave a few million dollars for the con­struction ofsuch a building that will aid all of the arts and letters communityin"...plying the trade of Arts and Letters" and ( 4) and this is the killer, that the "dude himself', Declo, must be "bogus" since it is he who Is responsible for the Foundation and Its daily operations. I do not know Declo as Lee seems to. Granted, his "empire" is large and ultimately he Is respon­sible for what the empire does. But don't you think it may be a bit ludicrous to blame him for your two unanswered proposals and to then infer that he is bogus? If your protest is that strong then maybe you should not step into the Declo Faculty Hall -a building con­structed because ofhis empire to aid, as it will, the Arts and Letters community. 
Dan Fallon GraceHall 

Premed program is not well-rounded at all 
DearEditor: 
Father Joseph Walter may well be pleased with the remarkable acceptance rate of his students into prestigious medical schools. I imagine that Notre Dame's premeds get a bet­ter technical training than do premeds from many other fine universities. But I am baffied that he would call the premed program "well­rounded." 
After four years here, I have scarcely met a handful of premeds who have even the most elementary knowledge of, much less ap­preciation for, anything nonscientific or non­technical. Heaven only knows they aren't inspired to have any: almost every premed I ever knew here has exchewed anything that even remotely smacks of liberal arts and, to that end, they rather grudgingly fulfill their minimal liberal arts requirements by hunting for the easiest professors with the most In­nocuous courses. Almost each one has deferred to Father Walter in his role as premed mentor in these buntings. 
In no way do I mean to impugn the charac­ters ofour premeds: a few of them ace excep­tions to the norm, and anyway, many of them are very wonderful people, and some of them are my closest friends; and although one could debate whether such a technical and narrowly focused program has a place in a liberal arts university, I do not wish to dwell on this point either. But It seems very odd to suggest, as Fa­ther Walter plainly did, that premeds who nei­ther know anything about, nor are encouraged by their advisors to cultivate an interest in, liberal disciplines are receiving a liberal education. 
The premed program may be many fine things, but "well-rounded" It certainly Is not. 
Richard Flint Graduate Student 

Look beyond the limits of the ND community 
DearEditor: 
There was an old comic book in the bath­
room for toilet paper if there was anything at 
all. There was never enough milk for each of 
my ten brothers and sisters to have two suffici· 
ent gulps. That was llfe In Mexico last semes­
ter. This semester, I see rolls and rolls oftoilet 
paper covering the trees ofthe quads, and not 
milk, but meat and vegetables thrown against 
the windows of the dining halls. The toilet 
papering and food fights of la'it weekend ace 
ungrateful announcements of a very limited, 
dome-centered vision of this world. 
You might say, "You're not In Mexico anymore Jenny, It's different here, it doesn't matter." I say it does matter. You need not travel to Mexico to find that toilet paper and food are not taken for granted by all. There are families just minutes from the university that have difficulty attaining those Item~ we con­sider basic necessities. There Is no one to magically fill the toilet paper dispensers for them. 
The abundance we are blessed with is not the result of our being better than anyone else, and being ungrateful is a slap in the faces of those who are needy. We need to look at the world in a different way -beyond the limits ofNotre Dame with all Its luxuries -and see that when we toilet paper trees and have food fights, we are being mindless ofothers. 
jenniferBrown LewisHall 

Viewpoint Policy 
The Viewpoint page gives you the opportunity to express your opinion through letters to the editor and guest columns. Letters to the editor must be well-written and typed, and should not exceed 150 words. The Observer will not run letters addressed to columnists or writers of letters to the editor. Letters to the editor may be mailed to P.O.Box Q or band delivered to our office. 
The Observer also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should also be well-written and typed, and should not exceed 650 words. Guest columns must be presented to the Viewpoint editor for publi­cation. 
The Observerretains the right to edit all materials submitted to the Viewpoint department. 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor·1n Chief. . Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager . Dave Taictet Managmo Fd1tor Mark Wnrc;r_hph Controller. Manpat Horne 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the News Ed1tor . . Sarah Hdmilton Adverflsmg Manager .. Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. tt does not necessanly News Editor . . Dan McCullnugh Clfculat!On Manager . .. Jeff O'Neill reflect the poi1C1es of the admm1strat10n of e1ther 1nSt1tut1on. The news is reported as Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager Kevin Williams accurately and as obteCtlvety as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion Sports Ed1tor M1chael Sullivan of a ma10r1ty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column V1ewpo1nt f.d1tor . Dave Grote present the v1ews of t~1e1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Ed1/or .. Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966
cornmun1ty. and the f1ee expreSSIOn of varymg opm10ns on campus. through letters. Photo Editor. Pete Laches IS encouraged 
Wednesday, October 3, 1984 -page 8




Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's tennis team defeated Hillsdale Col­The ND Golf Team placed third in the Midwestern lege, 5-3, yesterday afternoon at the Angela Athletic Facility. The City Conference Meet held at the French Lick, Ind., GolfClub yester­Belles will return to action on Thursday in Fort Wayne to challenge day. Notre DAme's team score was 930 in the 54-hole tournament, IUPU Fort Wayne and St. Francis. -The Observer behind Oral Roberts (908) and Oklahoma City (914). Two mem­
bers of the team were given All-Conference recognition -John 
The Soccer Teamdefeated St. Francis College 5-2 on Donovan (228) and Steve Fehrer (229), who placed fifth and sixth, the road yesterday. Richard Heredgen 50th career goal in the match. respectively, in the Tournament. -The Observer Details of the game will appear in tomorrow's paper.-The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
Correction 

Because of a reporting error, a professor at Saint Mary's Grad School Night was incorrectly identi­fied in yesterday's Observer. The speaker was Susan Vance, an assis­tant professor of business and eco­nomics at Saint Mary's. 

!be Ohsen•er Notre [)ame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. anTpts classified advertising !rom <J a.m. until -t p.m...\1onday through Friday The Ohsen•er Saint Mary's offin·. I<Kat<·d on the third floor of Haggar College Center. acTepts classilinls from 12:.~0 p.m. until ; p.m.. ~1on­day though Friday. Deadline li>r nc·xt-day t·Iassilkds is -~ p.m. All classilkds 
must he prepaid. either in pnson or hy maiL< :harge is I 0 cents pn five charac­
I t 


Classifieds 
ters c·r dav. 
Need Miami Tix! Will pay big bucks! Call I REALLY NEED 3 TICKETS FOR THE Debbie Buchanan-great job on the room! 
OBSERVER STAFF FORUM 234-5545. endad AIR FORCE GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP, How 'bout ne)(t week?
MONDAY, 7 P.M. 

PLEASE CALL SCOTI AT 272-6278.
~_N_o_TJC_E_s~l l~__w_A_NT_E_D~ 

NEW ORLEANS ROOM 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. CALL DAVE 0. AT WILL PAY BIG BUCKS!! I!! Bill thanks for the brownies, they were
(ecroealrom Student Actlvlll•
1606. fantastic-tess baby 
office on let floor LeFortullll)
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Ride -nted to PURDUE! Any and all I HAVE MIAMI STUDENT TIX· I WILL WANTED! WANTED! WANTED! 
Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­weekends. Cell Tina at 2n-0151 or Shir­TRADE FOR PENN STATE G.A. TIX tess baby lives forever venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob ley at 239-5303. CALL (2n-7570) FOR SALE Tickets see MICHAEL
to llcketa South JACKSON in Chicago on Saturday, Octo­
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the Need 4 G.A. to the 5 MORE SHOPPING DAYS TIL CATHIE ROTC Building. (239-6264) C.rollllll football game on October 20. NEEDED: 2 MIAMI GAB!! IT'S NOT MY ber 13. Best offer. Call Jeanne. 4042. LOHMULLER'S B-OAY!SHOP NOW Need Miami tix. GA and/or Student. $$ Willing to 11811 eherea oii.B.M. etock to MONEY-SO I DON'T CARE HOW MUCH AND AVOID THE RUSH! EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 Call3274 I SPENO!!! PLEASE CALL JOHN AT
f11111nce deal. C.ll Mark W. et 283-2045 LARRY BURKE: Got any food? or 23&-5313. 
3223 OR 4134 ANYTIME. TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. PILOTS WANTING TO FORM AN AERO­
ATIENTION JUNIORS: Organlzallolllll 

CLUB CONTACT STEVE AT 4125 NEED 2 GA'S FOR S. CAR. Call 2n-IN DIRE NEED OF A MIAMI STUDENT OHMY! meeting lor Junior Perants Weekend EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. 3652after6. TIX. PLEASE CALLSCOTI AT3281. IT'S THAT CHICK. Executive Commln• will ba held In CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. WANTED: LaFortune Little Th•tre Thuradl!y at
Female vocalist/guitarist for forming band. Looking for the next I NEED MIAMI & ANY HOME GAME I NEED MIAMI TIXII NEED MIAMI TIX! IF 6:30 TYPING Chrissie Hynde. Call2651. GAS. 272-6306 YOU CAN HELP CALL JEFF 3859 LIZ MILLER Jackie Boggs 684-8793 Need ride to I.U.Bioomington Oct 5 SMC­Need 5 South Carolina G.A's!! Will pay Desperately need four GA's to Miami Dear Dr. Ruth, We have a problem with Sarah 5180 game!! Please call Mark 2443 our roommate CHRIS. It seems we can't
ANY reasonable or unreasonable price!! October Fest Thurs! Get tickets now from Call Chuck at 2n-6396 or 239-7673. Peter, Janice or Katy!
....................................................,........... take her out in public anymore as she has Will type your papers, manuscripts. etc. NEED SET OF HOCKEY EQUIPMENT FOR SALE: 1 Miami and 2 Air Force Stu­been doing extensive damage. Fast and accurate. Reasonable rates. (large) Paul4052 dent nx. Rena 3765 sometimes Irreparable. to campus build­
DESPERATE!! DESPERATE!! DESPER­Theo Majora: Pl•ae attend the llrat 
ATE!! FOR 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET!! meeting of the Theology Forum on
Pick up and drop off service. Call Mary ings. The engineering auditorium is the 
WILL PAY$$!! CALL LINDA 2n-68S6 Thuradlly, October 4 at 7 pm In 341
234-5545. Need Ride To FL for Break, call Karen YO! NEED TWO TIX FOR AIR-FORCE best example. Here she has worn huge
O'Sheg. s,_kera: Fr. McBrien and Dr. AIR FORCE TIX need GA's or stud call WMver. 
2720816. GAME!! PLEASE!!! CALL 1871 holes in the ceiling, although in other 
buildings, she has merely scraped off Tom
Need ride to COLS.,OHIO Oct.5.Call NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S TOGETHER­some paint. We are at our wits end ... what Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? SMC5252 CALL GEORGE 277-6464 should we do? Signed: SHARON.
"Pat O'Shaughnessy is the most gor­TIX! NEED 2 FOR MIAMI, MANY FOR geous hunk on campus. If you are reading 
Leadership Training' Challenge! Ad­MARCI, and AL SO. CAR. ($)HELP($) KEVIN )3024 this. Pat, I stare at your buns in Econ." 
venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Part-time Night Bartender /Waitress Near FRIENDS WANT TO BE PART OF THE Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the N.D. caii289-0186 WAVE! NEED MIAMI STUO/GA TIX! JOAN IE, How can anyone with the middle ROTC Building. (239-6264) Getting DESPERATE FOR MIAMI TICK­DIAL H-E-L-P PLEASE! Need 2 MIAMI TIX-Student or GA Call name KENNEDY be a REPUBLI­
ETS(4311) Heather-2594
WANTED! NEEDED! ETC! 3 Tix for So. CAN???? Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Carolina. student or GA call Lou 287-6262 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET yyyPLEASEyyy Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­NEEDED BADLY!! GINA:3712 GK Joe: I've got the council banner. Lets 
NOW! Need 5 South Carolina G A ·a. Will pay VERY CampusViewSweatshirts!2720816. venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob ANY reasonable or unreasonable price. THANKS!!! 
talk. The Werewolve. Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the Wanted: 2 or 3 GA tix for the Air Force 
Call Chuck at 2n·6396 or 239-7673. B. Kosar • a dead QB 
ROTC Building. (239-6264) game. Call3359. NEED TWO MIAMI STUDENT TIX: CALL NEED 2 MIAMI TIX-STUO/GA CALL Hurricanes must perish !! Kosar is a dead
DAN 239-7666 DAYS; 233-5254 eves
································································ 
man!!

EXPERT TYPING 2n-6534 after 5:30 FLORIDA Riders Needed to Gainesville. 2852 NOW AVAILABLE FOR ADOPTION: Fl. for Oct Break. Leaving Thurs Oct 18. Need two tickets to MIAMI game student one homeless waif named N.J. who does TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. Arriving in time for GATOR GROWL Call NEED MIAMI TIX!! Keith 4216 or GA --phone 1250 YOU know ll'a Rockln Joe King, calc. talks incessantly. and sleeps in 
................................................................ Cindy 284-5039 donche S..v? Saturdl!y, Oct. 6 8t laundry bags. Interested? Call 1396 or BOOKS BOUGHT SOLO & TRADE. THIS HELP!!! NEED 2 SO.Carolina GA's HELP! NEED 4 PENN STATE TIX! CALL Stepan (lifter the Miami game)! Only stop in Cevanaugh 152 to see Mike or AD IS WORTH X-TRA 10/ DISC. PAN­HELP! Do you have hotel reservations for Please call PAUL: 4006 SUE3843 $2.50 In edvence, or $3.!50 8tlhe -­Paul. DORAS BOOKS 937 SO.BEND AVE. this Saturday night that you are not using? R•I muelc Ia here 8t NO! 
I need a room anywhere in the South Syndicate is after me for 3 Miami tickets, PITI CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS: Monday Bend area. You can be a great help. I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE S. call Chris 3055. The BangiM era coming! The BangiM Oct. 8 in the LaFortune Little Theater ... Please call Kevin at 2153. CAROLINA GAME OESPERATEL Y II! ere coming! SPECIAL REDUCED RATES!!!!! $40.00 
ALL BUSINESS STUDENTS CAREER 

$$$$$ WiU Pay Well $$$$$ Call Cliff at HELP! TWO G.A.'S NEEDED FOR round trip, $28.00 one way. Busses will FORUM THURS OCT. 4TH 7:00PM 122 lgiveGREATback massages. My price is 4511 NOW! MIAMI GAME. SAVE ME AND CALL TONIGHT REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE leave Saturday, Oct. 20th (after the HAYES-HEALY 
twoS. Carolina or two Penn State GA tick­RON3528 7:00 & 9:30PM. $1 SMC CARROLL HALL game). If demand is strong enough, we ets. Cal11266, and we'll talk buSiness. Need 1 or 2 Miami ncs.Cell Heidi at232-will also sponsor a bus to depart on ND-SMC ITALIAN CLUB MEETING AT 
0438 NEED: 4 MIAMI GA'S BAD! JOHN 3467 Friday, October 19th. Any questions call THE BASEMENT OF REGINA NORTH. 
DID YOU SEE CHRISTl PEARSON'S Torn Farnan at 1650. SMC, 6:00PM WEDNESDAY OCT. 3 
PLEASE!! This the first and only chance NEED 1 MIAMI STUDENT HAIR? for my parents to see a Notre Dame fool­TICKET,PAUL,2361 I AM GOING TO BE ONE HURTIN' UNIT 
VIDEO DANCE VIDEO DANCE VIDEO 

FOR SALE ball game (I'm a senior). I need tix for the Hey T-BabyI want to have your pups. UNLESS I GET 3 MIAMI TIXI PLEASE 
DANCE FRIDAY 9-2 CHAUTAOUA 

Miami game. Kathleen x3605. Thanks. 2 MIAMI STUDENT TIX TOGETHER CALL MARY AT 2682 OR ELSE THIS 
FEATURING THE BEST IN DANCE 

FOR SALE.CALL m-3170 MAKE OF· RIDE OFFERED fell brMk Eut c-t· COULD BE THE END OF SOME BEAU. 
VIDEOS Sponsored by the P/'Oflreuive 

lor sale: 2 Air Force GA'a and 2 Miami FER. New Hempahlra or New York, Boeton TIFUL FRIENDSHIPS! 
Music Club VIDEODANCEislrHiorclub 

GA·a call 264-5025 Shere Ueuele. Cell Lou 8t 2681. 
membets, $1/or general pubic $$$Desperate!! Need 2 GA tix for all Help! I Still Need Miami GAA'a. Please homegames and 1 Stu.tix. Call Patty at 
IS 19 TODAY! LET'S MAKE A DEALI OFFER BY 11PM WED. CALL 1209 SHE IS A VERY BEAUTIFUL GIRL! I I will give you three (3!) student tickets to FOR SALE 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET BEST call233-9415 MIC, THE SMC CHIC,
5254SMC 

COULD GIVE HER A LEI; OR I COULD the Penn Slam game, plua extra for your $50,553/YEAA. NOW HIRING. YOUR FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GA's. Will inctuda SEND A SCHLEPPER TO THE MIAMI GIVE HER A PEARL! BUT, SINCE I trouble, nyou will give me three (3!) GA's GAME: Will pay big bucM for one lousy 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $11,551 • 

HAVE NEITHER ONE, I WILL GIVE HER to the PennS-game. Think about it. ticket. Gall Jeff Chou al 3347. SPECIALAREA. CAll f105.4187-4000 EXT. R-parking permit for lol next lo AERO Bldg. 
PERSONALS 

11834. Call TOM 1758. A SHELL, AND SHE WILL SMILE LIKE Then call Mary at 1333. 
BONUS: ONE FREE RIDE ON THE L­THE SUN! HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIC­
TRAIN.

PRO-TYPE Specializing in dissertations, FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GAB best offer call ALCOHOL DISCUSSION/LECTURE Dr. HELLE!!! law papers, resumes and student papers 1213 Vann Smith LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Happy 21st Birthday Kevin!!! TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL
2n-5833 Tuesday Oct. 2 8:00 PM Take a study SENIOR CLASS PARTY! 
STEVE AT x1803.
78 VOLVO WAGON 4-SPEED break and come join in For more info call Thurs., Oct. 4, 9:30PM JOIN THE FEED THE DOGS CLUB notre dame breeds wild wolf pups-watch OVERORIVE,FUEL-INJECTED,NEW Counseling & Psych Services Center 239 Frank's Place 
Andrew Souder Pres. Brad Vossburg V.P. 

Pam Pfesco Sec. Mary Desmond Tres. CONOITION.$4200.282-1594. OH GOD. do I need Miami tickets! Oh, yes SENIORS-THURS. NIGHT AT Maura Hurley Sheila McMahon For more Complaint? Critique? I do! I need Miami tickets! Like, I really SMC/ND SUMMER PROGRAMS-­FRANK'S! Info call1441 P.S. Andrew Souder this is 
FOR SALE: Student ticket for rest of need Miami tickets! Oh. yes! Like never LONDON AND ROME-·TRAVEL IN your personal. OBUD GRIPE NGHT season (4 games). I want to sail this as a before! Miami tickets! Aaaaeaahhhh' IRELAND, SCOTLAND, FRANCE, GER­WEDNESDAYOCTOBER3 unit. Call Mike, 234-4538. P.....lulllll Grag'alnulleble api*Jte MANY, AND SWITZERLAND. SENIORS! Interested in a post-graduate Hey Betsy -Cen you call a cab for us? 4:45to 6:45PM 8t2532. COURSES IN ART, BUSINESS, EDU­volunt-experience abroad? Check out NOW! South Dining Hall FOR SALE· 2 MIAMI TIX, BEST OFFER, CATION, ENGLISH. ITALIAN. AND HIS­the Holy Cross Associates Program in CALL TOM 1808 TORY. FIRST MEETING OCT. 3, 7:00 Chile. See Mary Ann Roemer at Center 
out TIRES;54000 MILES GOOD 7336 327W. Marion 
That was a gracalul SWAN-dive! Chin ................................................................ SOUTH CAROLINA PM, RM 232 MOREAU (ST. MARY'S) . for Social Concerns Application deadline 
and bear it. Complaint? Critique? Will trade 3 end zone GA's SLIDES, PIZZA. ETC. FOR INFO CALL Nov.1. and 2 student tickets 284-4460 OR 272-3726 (PROF. BLACK). for 3 respectable GA's. Complaint? Critique? DESPERATELY NEEDED two student
TICKETS 

4278 tickets to the Air force Game. Will pay! IRISH GARDENS Call Heidi at SMC 4407 FACT: The Air Force game is coming up IRISH GARDENS OBUD GRIPE NIGHT 
LOST/FOUND I 

soon. ORDER CORSAGES AND WRAPPED WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 3 Creepy Creely Your girHriends name is FACT: Two people I know are corning up Miami Tickets For Sale 50 yard line or will FLOWERS IN ADVANCE 4:45 TO 6:45PM ELLEN not MICHELLE Get it right. At soon. trade for Penn St. Tickets phone 272-IRISH GARDENS South Dining Hall least I'm not wrapped ari:>und the beef! 
LOST: A GERMAN SHEPARD. BLACK FACT: They don't have tickets, but want 3891. IRISH GARDENS MALE WITH CLIPPED EAR, AMHERST to see the game. Kevin Happy Bar-day! Love, Kelly, Jackie, MA TAGS. CALLCARMENAT6580. FACT: I need two tickets. Need 4 Miami Tix! GA's. Call Kathy, 3781. Complaint? Critique? and Cathy 
FACT: My name is MAn. I carry a badge. RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER. LOST: WHITE CONCLUSION: If you don't call 25n NY. LEAVING 10/19 AND RETURNING Happy 18th Birthday Beth. Love. Tina. WINDBREAKER/JACKET W/BLUE & soon and sell me two GA's to the Air Force I need two GA tickets to S.C. game 10/28. CALL FRANK AT 1422. HEY, HEY, HEY, MARY ELBERSON IS Lara. Diane 
REO COLLAR IN LAFORTUNE. IF game. I'm going to do something terrible desperately. Please call Joanne at 4046. 19 TODAY! WHY DON'T ALL YOU FOUND. PLEASE CALL TERRY AT 283-to your dog. a-reoltha chin! HUNKS GIVE THIS GORGEOUS NO MOM. Beav, Grace, Maggie, Diane, Tina, 1991. HELP!NEED THREE MIAMI TIX. CALL BLOND A RING. 2973. NOW DON'T Beth, Lara, Dan, Maureen, Torn and 
I need one GA for MIAMI game. Call TOMAT3588 FORGET. THAT'S 2973 (MARY) everyone who "took me for a swim" thanx LOST: GOLD RING WITH GARNET Terry, 3305. for making my 18th the best birthday ever! STONE. PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 283-HELP! I really, really need 3 Miami GA's. If HEY MACINTOSH USERS! COLLEGE REPUBLICANS COLLEGE Mikey 12721F FOUND. Help! We need MIAMI tix. Call Rob 1784 you've got some. call Eric 3654. It's still not too late REPUBLICANS MEETING RM 204 OS­
Kathy4071 to join the MacCiub. HAG 7PM THURSDAY. REAGAN NEW JERSEYII What a great place to LOST ONE BOTILE OF J.D. ON Need 4 SC tix, CALL DAVE 1700 Stop by the computer store STICKERS WILL BE HANDED OUT! live. I Need a ride back to ND/SMC from SECOND FLOOR P.W. SAT. NIGHT. IF Yo, I need a whole bunch of Air Force lick· and pick up a membership form!! Morristown area on 10/28. If anyone FOUND PLEASE CALL SLUGGO AND ets. I'm talking large quantities. Vast I HAVE MIAMI TIX!I!!!! I NEED PENN PIGS PIGS PIGS Men of 408 Do YOU needs riders call SMC-5519-Jeanne ASSOCIATES AT 2965 amounts. Lots and lots of 'em. Can we STATE TIXI!! IF YOU CAN HELP ME IN know where YOUR pigs are? 
talk? Call the Allen at 2538. THIS TRADE CALL DOUG 3859. JENNIFER "THE MAD SQWUNCHER" 
B. Kosar-Good as dead I DELICIOUS SANDWICHES Christo, 00, and Danny Mo are corning! DIEM 
SOUTH CAROLINA TICKETS Need 2 MIAMI TIX-Student or G.A. Call DELIVERED CALL THE YELLOW SUB­has finally made it! Call 3860 to wish this REWARD -LOST -MEN'S GOLD N.D. I need some, that's all. Call the Alien at Heather 2594 MARINE 272-4453 MON-THU 8-11PM ATIN: CENTURY CLUB & CO., Playing wild woman a happy 18th and ask her n CLASS RING SLUE STONE INSCRIP­2538. FRI-SA T 8PM-1AM by the RRWT rules? Football in the quad­she would really dispose of her belovad TION DJH '85 -IF FOUND PLEASE CALL Need Miami ticket-student or G.A. Call when's the next game? Your poker roommate for a 4.0 and some extra doset DAN AT 234-9515 OR 283-3429. I NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL BRIAN 3677. Miriam4174 IJuet went to ba purauedl buddies space. 
LOST: Set of Keys on a "MY KEYS" Key NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL JOHN AT 2246 $$$ NEED 2 MIAMI STUD. TICKETS TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL ANN MURPHY turns 20 in 20 days! P.S.Jennifer. don't kill your roommate! I ring.lffound please call272-0816 OR 1296. CALL KEN AT 2111 STEVE AT x1803. Gentlemen start your engines. LOVE HER MADLVI 

.,
The Observer Wednesday, October 3, 1984 -page 9 
Briefs 
continued/rom page 8 
The ND Water Polo Club won a tournament held at the University of Dayton over the weekend. The team defeated Kenyon College 9-4, Michigan 8-1 and Dayton 11·1 0 to win the title. Charles Brady was the tourney MVP. ·The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. For more information, call Timo at 287-8264.-The Observer 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables at Edwardsburg, Mich. will be sponsored by NVA on Sunday, October 7. Rides will be at noon, 1:30 p.m., 3 p.m. and 4:30p.m. EST. The charge for transportation and 50· to 60-minute rides is S5. Times must be reserved in person at the NVA office by today. · The Observer 
The ND Ultimate Frisbee Club will have practice today and Friday at 4:15p.m. Players are to meet in front of Stepan Center. For more information, call 283·1 588. ·The Observer 
The ND Skateboard Club wm be meeting 
tonlgbt at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. If unable to attend, call Bob at 277-3877. ·The Observer 
Abadmintontournamentis being held by NVA. Singles and doubles entries for the double-elimination tournament will be: accepted at the NVA office until today. -The Observer 
Fencing novices are invited to participate in the novice fencing program. If interested, report to the fencing gym in the ACC (above gate 4) tonight at 7:30p.m., dressed for action. For more lnform:ulon, call 239·5585. ·The Observer 

Hitting lacks punch 

Notre Dame wins one over weekend 
ByTOMYOON 
Sports Writer 
This past weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team took its 2-1· 1 record on the road. When the Irish returned back home, their record stood at 3·3·1. 
The Irish started out In their weekend action losing to Lewis Uni­versity, 7·3, and Bradley, 9·1, on Sat­urday. The team came back on Sunday to defeat Chicago State 6-2. 
"We didn't play well at all this weekend," commented coach Larry Gallo. "Our hitting just wasn't there. The lack of offense was present when we lost to Lewis and Bradley. But the it came back when we beat Chicago State." 
In Sunday's game, the Irish jumped out to a 3-0 lead in the first inning. Ken Soos walked and then scored when Jack Moran doubled to left-center field for the initial run. Tom Shields followed with a double that scored Moran. With Shields on second, Rich Vanthournout hit a single, scoring Shields and making the score 3-0. Chicago State struck back for its only run when Bill Kopale walked and scored when Joe Young singled. 
The Irish scored again in the top of the fourth when Mike Dorning singled to center and moved to third on Mike Wookcock's double. Dor­

You've been studying for Domino's Deluxe hours. The pages are 5 1tems for the pnce of 4 blurring and your stomach Pepperoni. Mushrooms. is stirring. So why not take Onions. Green Peppers a break and call Domino's and Sausage Pizza? We'll be there with 12" deluxe $ 8.55 a hot, custom-made pizza 16" deluxe $12.35 In 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our 
Electives 
pizzas are made with Pepperoni. Mushrooms. 
1000/o real dairy cheese Black Olives. Omons. 
and fresh, not frozen. 
Green Olives. Sausage.
toppings. Now isn't that Ground Beef, Ham. Green 
worth contemplating! 
Peppers, Double Cheese. Extra Th1ck Crust 12" p1zza $ .89 per item 
Menu 
16" pizza $1 .29 per item 
All Piuas Include Our Coke" '16 oz. bottles,Special Blend of Sauce 
59a:.
and 100% Real Cheese 
Q 
Our drivers carry less Our Superb Cheese Pizza than $20.00 
12"cheese$4.99 
16" cheese $7.19 
Limited Delivery Area 
~ Pr~ces do not 1nclude applicable sales tax c 1984 Domrno s P1zza. Inc 

r----------------------,
Pay only $5.99 for a
$5.99 
12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes·
Special 
Expires in one week. 
Fast, Free Delivery™ Plaza 23 Center 
1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend 

--~..,.~\ Phone: 277·2151 JTC NA 1 03 2650 
L-------~~=~-----------J 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 

DELIVERS™ FREE. 
ning scored on Tom Gullfoile's single while Woodcock advanced to third. Jack Moran walked to load the bases, and David Clark also walked to score Wookcock, putting the Irish ahead, 5-1. 
The Irish scored one more run when Vanthournout singled and later scored on Mike Doming's single. Chicago did score one more run when in the top of the sixth Blll Kopale singled and later scored on an error by the catcher. Jell Refake took the loss for Chicago State, while Mark Watzke earned the wln with relief help from Joe Dobosh and Buster Lopes. 
In Saturday's game against Lewis Univeristy, the Irish only scored three runs while allowing seven. 
The scoring started in the second inning when Lewis scored two runs. Ed Delarosso doubled down the 
But Lewis put the game out of reach when it scored three more runs In the bottom of sixth, making the final score 7-3. John Relfenstuhl went the distance for Lewis and picked up the wln, while Irish hurler Steve Powell took the loss. 
The game against Bradley imme­diately followed the Lewis contest. 
Trouble began from the begin­ning for Notre Dame. Lead-oil hitter Dave Paizzi started olf the game for Bradley with a solo home run over the left-center fence. Later in the in­
j 
4 
I

ning with the score 2-0, Glenn Dal· 
j

!man hit a two-run homer, making the score 4-0. 
The Irish scored their lone run in the bottom of the third when Ken Soos hit a single to right, stole second, went to third on an out to second. Soos scored when the 
third base line and scored on George • shortstop for Bradley misplayed Jack Anderson's single. Anderson then Moran's hit. But that was all the Irish scored when Mike VanMill ripped a bats could muster, as they only had triple into right-center field. With four hits the entire game. Bradley, Lewis ahead 2-0, the Irish struck on the other hand, scored one run In back with one run in the top of the the fourth and sixth innings, and third. Soos singled and advanced to three more in the seventh, making second on an error. Shields came up the final score, 9·1. Blll Mary pitched to the plate and delivered an RBI the entire game for Bradley and single, making the score 2-1. registered the win, while Brad Cross 
got the loss for Notre Dame. With the score 4-1, the Irish at· tempted a comeback in the top of The baseball team returns to ac­the sixth. Shields reached first on an tion this weekend, with games both infield single and scored when Mike Saturday and Sunday on Jake Kline Doming's single was misplayed by Field. The Irish host Lewis on Satur­the Lewis left-fielder. Vanthournout day and play Glen Oaks in a hit a single to center scoring pinch doubleheader on Sunday. runner Darryl Kuelin. 
S.M.U. SOIDOL OF LAW DALLAS, TEXAS Professor Regis W. Campfield, BBA, Notre Dame; LL.B., University of Virginia; Chairman of the Notre Dame Estate Planning Institute, will be on campus TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9 from 7 to 9 p.m. in Room 208 of O'Shaughnessy Hall to talk with students about admission and financial assistance. All interested students are welcome to meet with Profes~or Campfield during this time.  


Feel like you're all alone in this? Want to learn some new ways of relating to others? Have some things you need to talk over? How about Counseling & Psychological Services? 
GROUP SERVICES 
Interpersonal Skills Groups  ALANON  
Grief/Luss Groups  Stress Management  
Support Groups  Assertion Training  

For more information or to make an appointment CALL 239-7336 or stop by 3rd floor Student Health Center(lnflrmai'Y) 
j 



The Observer Wednesday, October 3, 1984-page 10 



Cubs homer to victory, Tigers rip Royals in playoffs 

Associated Press home runs from Bob Dernier, Ron Sutcliffe suddenly struggled with his Kirk Gibson caught to retire the error and came home on Trammell's Cey and Rick Sutcliffe, who had a 16-control, walking Terry Kennedy and Royals. single. 
CHICAGO -Gary Matthews hit 1 record with Chicago. Kevin McReynolds. Carmela Mar­From then on, Morris 19-11 A single by Barbaro Garbey and an two home runs to lead a record­Dern.ier, who scored three runs, tinez then hit a sinking line drive to during the season, was in command. run-scoring double by Evans and an breaking parade of five Chicago and Matthews, who had four RBI's, right. Keith Moreland, not known He set down nine consecutive bat­RBI-single by Marty Castillo in the homers as the Cubs clobbered the hit solo homers off Padres' right­for his defensive prowess in right, ters until Jorge Orta led off the eighth, plus Parrish's leadoff homer San Diego Padres 13-0 yesterday in hander Eric Show for the Cubs' first charged, dove to the grass and came seventh with a triple and scored on in the ninth off Mike Jones com­the first game of the best-of-five Na­two runs in the first. Sutcliffe hit a up with the ball for the third out. Darryl Motley's groundout for pleted the rout. tional League Championship Series. leadoff homer in the third, and Mat­Kansas City's only run, making it 5-l. 
Besides Matthews, the Cubs got thews added a three-run homer in a Morris left the game after the League Championship Series 
six-run fifth during which the Cubs seventh with a blister on the middle
Tigers 8, Royals 1 

sent 12 men to the plate against finger of his pitching hand. Willie 
Wednesday's Game 

reliever Greg Harris. Hernandez pitched two hitless in­

Close 

Cey hit his fourth career playoff KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Alan Tram­nings in shutting down the AL west San Diego (Thurmond 14-8) at homer in the sixth inning. mell sparked the Detroit attack by champion Royals, who were 84-78 Chicago (Trout 13-7), 2:25p.m.
continuedfrom page 12 

The five homers broke a League driving in three runs with a homer, during the regular season but disap­Detroit (Petry 18-8) at Kansas for the team's comeback. The Irish Championships Series record ac­triple and single as the Tigers ripped pointed a sellout crowd of41,973 in City (Saberhagen 10-11 ), 8:25p.m. took advantage of their serve and complished four times previously, the Kansas City Royals 8-1 in the dropping the playoffopener. 
won the game, 17-15. 

twice in each league. opening game of the American The Tigers, the AL east champions Thursday's Game "Karen Sapp played well," noted Sutcliffe, traded to the Cubs June League Championship Series yester­with a 104-58 record, including a 6­Lambert. "Mary Jo Hensler also did a 
13 from the Cleveland Indians, day night. 0 mark at Royals Stadium, jumped on Chicago (Eckersley 11-8) at San good job. We didn't have Josie 
yielded only singles to Steve Garvey Trammell, who also walked twice Kansas City starter Bud Black, I 7-12, Diego (Whitson 14-8), 8:35p.m. Maternowski or Kathy Baker, so we 
and Garry Templeton, struck out in reaching base all five times he before he had a chance to settle eight and walked five in seven in­came to the plate, smacked an RBI­down.
were hurting, but those girls came nings. Warren Brusstar allowed four triple to key a two-run first inning Lou Whitaker led off the game
through." 
Friday'sGame

hits in the last two innings, complet­and starterjack Morris made it stand with a line single to right. Trammell 
The Irish were victorious in the in~ a six-hitter. up. followed with a long drive to left Kansas City (Leibran<lt 11-7) at
fourth game, 16-14. The team led The game was officiated by col­The Tigers, baseball's most domi­that Motley seemed to get a bad Detroit (Wilcox 17-8), 8:25p.m.
early, 12-8, but a Falcon rally evened the battle at a 14-14 deadlock. When 

lege umpires, working in place of nant team during the regular season, jump on. By the time Motley Bowling Green lost its service, the the regular umps, who were on pounded out 14 hits -including recovered, the ball had caromed off Irish, behind Bennington's serve, 
strike. But, with the score so home runs by Larry Herndon and the base of the wall and went for a Saturday, October 6 rolled back on top, winning the next lopsided, the presence of amateurs Lance Parrish. triple. An out later, Parrish stroked a two points, the game and the match. never became a factor. ball to the right field warning track Kansas City at Detroit, 1 p.m., if It was a sweet victory for Lambert The NL used a four-man amateur Morris retired the first seven for a sacrifice fly. necessary and his team. But the schedule does Chicago at San Diego, 8:25p.m., if
crew, rather than the normal six­Royals and had a 3-0 lead before Don Herndon led off the fourth with a not get easier for the Irish, who have man major league crew, reasoning Slaught singled cleanly in the third. home run to left and Trammell hit necessary to face a tough team in St. Francis of that the amateurs were more ac­An out later, Willie Wilson also sin­the first pitch of the fifth to nearly Sunday, October 7
Joliet tomorrow on the road. customed to working in quartet. gled and after Pat Sheridan fouled off the same spot -but deeper-to make "They are one of the best teams in Sutcliffe, a right-hander, coasted two full-count pitches and then it 4-0. 
Chicago at San Diego, 4:05 p.m., if 

the country," warns Lambert. through the first three innings with­walked to load the bases, Morris The Tigers increased the lead in 
necessary

Making the task at hand even more out giving up a hit. Garvey got the faced his biggest challenge. the seventh off reliever Mark Huis­Kansas City at Detroit, 8:25p.m., if difficult is the fact that the Irish must first hit off the Cubs' ace when he But he got out ofit as George Brett mann when Whitaker reached third necessary
play the match away from home. It reached on a bunt single in the hit a sinking liner to right field that on right fielder Sheridan's two-base fourth.
should be another tough battle for After Graig Nettles popped out,
the team. 
S<*ECOURSES IMPROVE SCORES­WE IMPROVES TUD ENTS,TOO! BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
*test-n-tape library *reinforcement test *homestudy packet 


~------------------­
-

Today______________________w_e_dn_e_s_d_a_y_.o_c.to_b_e_r_3_._~_9_8_4_·_p_a_g_e_l_l 
Doonesbury 
Hl THIS 15 (j{)/1. NJRMALLY, AS THE SIJPREM& /JEING, I 7l<Y 7D 7l?AN5CEN[) PAJ((/5/W ftJUT!CS. 
: M THIS 'lt.AR 15 
[)1Ff£RENT.. ,F 
Bloom County 


Campus 
•4: 
15 p.m.-PhilosophyLecture, "Reason and Rc· ligion," Prof. J. R. Lucas, Oxford, England, Room 127 Nicuwland. 

•4:20 
p.m.-Physics Colloquium, "X-Ray Lithog· raphy," Dr. David Nagel, Naval Research Labora· tory, Room 1 18 Nieuwland. 

•4:30p.m.-MicrobiologySeminar, 
"Changes in Frog Proncphric Cells After Malignant Transforma· tion," Dr. Kenyon Tweedell, NO, Room 278 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 

•4:30-7 
p.m. -OBUD Gripe Night, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by Ombudsman. 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting, ND-SMC Italian Club Meeting, Basement of Regina North · SMC. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Toastmasters Intt·rnational, Organization to Improve Public Speaking, Room 223 Hayes Healy, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, International Students Organiza­tion, ISO Lounge, Basement of LaFortune, Sponsored by International Students Organization. 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, CIIA Education Committee Meeting, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by. CIIA, All Arc Welcome. 

•
7 p.m. -InformationalMeeting, London-Rome Summer Program, Dr. Anthony Black, Room 232 Moreau Hall. 

•7 
p.m.-Wednesday Night FUm Series, "It's a Wonderful Life," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-SAB FUm, "Octopusscy," Eng.i· nccring Auditorium, Also Thursday, October 4, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S I . 50. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m.-Movie, "Rebel Without a Cause," Carroll Hall -SMC, Sponsored by Circle K -SMC, 


$1. 

•7:30 
p.m. General Meeting, Notre Dame Stu· dent Lobby, Coffee House, Center for Social Con· ccrns. 

• 
7:30p.m. -Lecture, "Language ofthe Body" and "Spirituality of Marriage," Prof. Janet Smith, ND, Pope John Paul II Lecture Series , Sponsored by St. Thomas More Society, Little lbcatrc, LaFortune. 

•7:30-9 
p.m. -lecture, "Preparing Refugees for Resettlement,'' Conrad Spohnholz, Director of the Refugee Process Camp, Batang, Philippines, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -VisitingArtist Lecture Series, Mary Beth Edelson, Painter, Sculpwr, Room 200 Art Building. 

•8 
p.m. -lectures, On Gilbert Keith Chesterton, By Prof. Alzina Stone Dale of Chicago ,and Przcmslaw Mrockzkowski of Krakow, Poland, Memorial Li· brary Rare Books Room. 

•9 
p.m. -Lecture, "Religion, Law and Morality," John Hirschfield, Little 'lbcatrc, LaFortune, Sponsored by ND·SMC Right to Life, Frt•c. 


Psychochicken Octavio 

Garry Trudeau 

fORMf3?,L:I KNWNAS 711& ''r3.0.P.~ AM&RJCA'S 111KTY5TAN/JS fOR el&l<f7HIN6 7HAT:554Cfi!lil?7lJM&. 
Pl//0 FOR BY 

01./} 6/.()eY. MARY L.OU Rfl!VN 
THE REA64N-600 

Nf./Ct£AR. Sl/P&R/OR/7'1. 50 TAK& 
R/3-EI.ECTION fT FRDM M£3., (j{)l}, A ~ fOR 
C!J'.1MITT/Z. AM&f(JCA'S 81R7YIS A VOTC , f FORMe. 
~/ 
Berke Breathed 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Hal Ain't a raHier, Jake. You got one of them maraca players down your bag­and he's probably more scared than you." 
48 Coronet 53 Depression 
49 Glacial ridge migrant

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 34 Routine 64 Nostradamus 18 Baseball team 1 Designer Bill 35 With: Fr. for example 23 Cuckoo 50 Piping 54 Mean 6 Troubadour 37 Lass 65 Personal record 25 National park 
51 Pintail duck 58 TV's Charlotte song 38 Amerces 52 Find fault 59 Medieval poem 10 Indian moun· 39 Tide 
26 Franchise
lain pass 40 Lhasa-

exerciser 
Tuesday's Solution 
14 High nest 41 Remarkable DOWN 28 Musical nine 15 Cartoonist thing Fundamental 

29 Always
Thomas 42 Loy of films 2 Composer 30 College official16 Abnormal 43 Sometime floor Franz 31 Moslem officialbreathing cover 32 Immersionssound 45 Noted Chin. 

33-Minor
17 National park name 3 Boxing milieu 
34 Wash
19 Song 46 Withered 4 Offense 36 Audit man20 Fleming or 47 Hunting dog 5 Harbor 38 Enviable poker Smith 51 Nov.J-6 Mountain range 

hand
21 Desserts 54 Zone 7 Vientiane's 22 Kenesaw of 55 Jap. bay land 
baseball 56 Shark 8 Beard's org. 24 Coloring sticks 57 National park 9 Decathlon 42 Restaurant 26 Sell 60 "Quid Sod" participants bigwig 
27 Poet's word 61 Comfort 10 National park 44 Gods: Lat. 28 Paid atlention 62-seal 11 Unyielding 45 Burrowing to 63 Fencer's 12 Others to Ovid animal 
31 Grownup weapon 13 Beverages 47 A Nero 




TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT



DARBY'S PLACE 
For Late Night 


$1.50 $1.50
STUDYSNACKS 
Located in the 
Basement ofLaFortune 

7:00, 9:30, 12:00 Engineering Aud. 

©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 10/3/84 


-
Irish look toward Hurricane war 
t 

l S~orts 
I ! 
t 
t 
~ 
~. 
The Observer /Pete 
jill Sugltcb spikes the ball over the net in action earlier this season. Suglicb and her teammates won a close match with Bowling Green last night. Each game itselfwasfought down to the lastpoint, and theIrish revervsed their trendoflosing close games. Chuck Ehrman bas the details ofthe match in his story at right. 

Wednesday, October 3, 1984-page 12 
Volleyball team triumphs in close four-game match 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Fighting Irish volleyball team clipped the wings of the Bowling Green Falcons in a fine display of volleyball at the ACC last night. 
In a very close match, in which every game was tight until the final point, the Irish changed their luck from previous matches by winning this one. The team rallied in the match after losing the opening 13­15. 
Notre Dame came back to win the next three games, each extra point contests, 16-14, 17-15, 16-14. 
"It wasn't a really polished perfor­mance," said Coach .Art Lambert. "But we won, and that was very im­portant to the team. The players hung in there this time, and they won it. They worked h~Lrd and I was 

DiGiacomo scores twice 
ND drops close game to Spartans 
ByTOM FAY 

Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team lost a close game yesterday to Michigan State 4-3 at Alumni Field. The Spartans scored two late second halfgoals to rally from a 3-2 deficit to win. 
Corinne DiGiacomo led the Irish with two goals. Beth Bisignano had the other Irish goal while earning two assists -both on DiGiacomo's two goals. Also playing a good game was freshman Benet DeBerry who played a strong defensive game, and also chipped in offensively with an assist. 

Notre Dame jumped out front quickly in the first half when proud of them." 
The victory pushed the team's season record to 5-6. 
The match started with the score see-sawing back and forth. In the first game, the Falcons jumped to the early lead, 8-5. The Irish came back, helped by a key block by Tracy Ben­nington, and tied the score at 11-11. But the Irish surge fell short and the Falcons edged their way back on top, winning 15-13. 
The Irish sputtered in the opening moments ofgame two, and Bowling Green took command, 11-6. With the Irish trailing 11-8, and with the Falcons serving, sophomore Karen Sapp smashed a winner and it was side-out for the Irish. 
Then good things started to hap­pen behind the serving of Mary jo Hensler. A nifty shot by Bennington pulled the team within two at 11-9. 
DiGiacomo tallied her first goal four minutes into the game. Michigan State came back three minutes later to tie the game at one. HalfWay through the first half, DiGiacomo notched her second goal. But once again, the Spartans knotted the score, this time with four minutes to go in the half. 
In the second half of this see-saw battle, Notre Dame played agressively both offensively and defensively. The Irish did not retake the lead, however, until Bisignano broke the MSU defense and scored to give the Irish their third lead of the game. 
The persistent Spartans came back as they did in the first hl!lf by scoring three minutes later. This Kathleen Morin followed by slam­ming a shot to the Falcon side which was not returned. In a matter of minutes the Irish had taken the lead, 14-11. 
The dazzling turnaround delighted the arena and brought nearly 200 Notre Dame partisans to their feet. The team held on to win, 16-14. 
Behind the fine play ofSapp in the third game, the Irish came from be­hind to earn a hard-fought victory. Notre Dame tied the game at 11 on a Sapp kill, after falling behind in the early going. 
The Falcons, however, slipped back ahead 11-14. Not to be outdone, Sapp, with the Falcons ser­ving, hit a spike that gave the serve back to the Irish. The stage was set 
see CLOSE, page 10 
time the Irish did not regain the lead, as the Spartans struck again with seven minutes to go to take the lead for good at 4-3. 
Even though they lost the game, the Irish, whose record dropped to 1-2-1, looked impressive as they showed some offensive punch which had been lacking in previous games. 
junior right winger Molly McCabe and junior forward Melissa Sommer played extremely well on offense. Defensively, juniors Rose Rodgers, Teri Murphy and Liz Siegal stood out along with DeBerry. Siegal made the defensive play ofthe game when she covered an open net and saved one of MSU's 18 The next game for the Irish is on Thursday, when they travel to Goshen. 
Hello again, everybody! 
Notre Dame Stadium will not be a place for the faint of 
heart on Saturday night. The Irish have been battered, 
bloodied, and bruised, but now Gerry Faust must rally the 
remaining troops and prepare them for their biggest bat­
tle of the 1984 season. Ladies and gentlemen, Miami is 
coming to town, and the Irish are going to war! 
Don't expect players on these two teams to exchange Hallmark cards at Christmas. To say Notre Dame and Miami don't like each other is an understatement. The Hatfields and McCoys look like a pleasure cruise on the Love Boat when compared to these two teams. This se­ries has become a grudge match in recent years, and Sat­urday night will be no exception. 
Mention Miami to somebody on last year's team and watch his eyes come ablaze with a fierce internal inferno. The Irish players remember the embarrassment brought to them by last year's 20-0 loss to Miami on national tele­vision. They remember how Miami intimidated them physicallyand mentally. They remember it all ...and now they want revenge. 
Oh sure, in public Notre Dame players have been taking the season one game at a time. However, privately, the date ofOctober 6 has been circled on many calendars for quite some time. Last year's loss to Miami has stayedin the minds ofNotre Dame players all through the summer and fall, and now the moment has come to erase that bit­ter memory. 
The task ahead won't be easy, though, as part of that memory recalls how Miami quarterback Bernie Kosar picked apart the pass defense last season. Kosar has con­tinued to prove that performance was no fluke, most recently throwing for 368 yards in three quarters against Rice last week. As a sophomore, he already ranks third on Miami's all-time passing list, and Kosar will certainly be the focus ofattention when Miami has the ball. 
However, the Irish have already brought out their own cannons to fire on offense. Beuerlein may be the only Irish player to have pleasant reflections of last year's Miami game, as he came off the bench in the second half 

Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 


to earn a starting berth he has yet to relinquish. Beuerlein 
has been getting better each wet:k, and is coming off his 
best performance as a collegian against Missouri. 
Both quarterbacks have plenty of targets to receive their passes. Kosar will be looking for his fine pair of senior split ends, Eddie Brown and Stanley Shakespeare. Brown has earned the nickname "downtown" this year, hauling in 2 5 catchesfor 440 yards and four touchdowns. Meanwhile, Shakespeare has been just as steady'with 22 catches for 333 yards and three TDs. When Kosar doesn't go deep, he will look for running back Alonzo Highsmith in the flat. 
Meanwhile, Beuerlein will be looking for his own fine group of receivers. Tight end Mark Bavaro has become Beuerlein's premier target, nabbing 14 tosses for 185 yards. When Bavaro isn't hauling them in, look for speedsters Milt jackson and Tim Brown to be called upon. jackson has 11 catches for 151 yards, while Brown has 10 receptions for 118 yards. 
Most wars are decided in the trenches, and this one will be no exception, as a couple of fine running backs will get behind a pair of big lines. Miami often relies on running back Alonzo Highsmith to carry the ball, and Highsmith has proved to be explosive with an average of nearly seven yards per carry. 
Meanwhile, Allen Pinkett has yet to get on track this year for the Irish, mainly because it seems the big folks in front ofhim have not been opening up the holes. Pinkett's best performance this year is a mere 69 yards against Purdue, and the line would certainly like to top that fig­ure with a 100-yard performance on Saturday. 
The key to this game, though, may be which defensive line can put the most pressure O'!_ the opposing quarter­back. Last year, Kosar had time to send for room service while waiting for a receiver to get open, and he burned the Irish, while Blair Kiel and Beuerlein were wearing Hurricane linemen all night long. The two teams that beat Miami, Michigan and Florida State, didn't afford Kosar the luxury of time and really didn't have much difficulty in beating the Hurricanes. If Mike Gann, Wally Kleine, and Mike Kiernan can duplicate their outstanding perfor­mance from last week, it could be a great night for the Irish. 
Likewise, Beuerlein showed last week what he can do with excellent protection, as the Irish line did not allow a Missouri tackler to dirty the Irish quarterback's pants. Not allowing a sack is never an easy task, and it certainly will be difficult to repeat against Miami. Defensive end Julio Cortesand tackle Kevin Fagan are the bigguns in the Miami pass rush, and it's up to the men on the front lines to silence them. 
Yes, it will be a battered Irish squad going to war on Saturday night. The injury bug has taken Tony Furjanic and Eric Dorsey as its most recent victims. Notre Dame's "achilles heel" has been in the knee, as six Irish players may miss the game with some type ofdamage to that part of the body. It is rare that any team is hit with this much misfortune. 
However, after last week, the Irish should not com­plain about luck. It was former Yankee pitcher Lefty Gomez who said, ''I'd rather be lucky than good." Last week, the Irish were lucky to beat Missouri. This week, Notre Dame may need both qualities to beat Miami. As MacArthur said, "In war, there is no substitute for vic­tory." 
Pick ofthe Week. .. The Irish football team is not the only Notre Dame squad ranked in the top-twenty nation­ally. joe Piane's Irish cross country team has earned an 18th place ranking in the latest NCAA polls, and they will have a chance to prove their merit when they host the Notre Dame Invitational this Friday afternoon at 2:00 on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 





