

Student government -page 8 

VOL XVIII, NO. 126 the im.kpcmknt ~tudt:nl ncw~papcr ~t·n·ing notre dame and ~aint mary·., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1984 
New exam plan allows no senior exemptions; weighting is changed 
By MARKWORSCIIEH 
ManagingEditor 
Graduating seniors will not be ex­empt from final examinations next year, the Notre Dame Academic Council unanimously decided yes­terday. 
The council also voted to require that final exams be weighted not less than one-ftfth and not more than one-half of the semester grade. This new range replaces the current up­per limit ofone-third. 
Previously, seniors with at least a 'B' average could be exempted from final exams at the discretion of the instructor. This change will not af­fect the Class of 1984. 
An amendment requiring that an instructor fail a student in a course for an unexcused absence from the final exam was defeated. Instead, the council passed a clarification of the present policy so that such an ab­sence would result in a student's "receiving no credit on the exam." Students still retain the right to a review by the instructor and the dean to determine ifthe cause ofthe absence was sufficient to permit taking the exam at a later time. 
Also defeated yesterday was a proposal giving instructors the authority to fail a student if the stu­
dent  has  not  completed  all  the  
course  work,  "regardless  of  the  
grade in the final examination."  

Other amendments passed by the council included a requirement to make two-hour final exams man­datory unless an exception is ap­proved "by the chairperson (of the department) and reviewed by the dean." 
Two amendments concerning the graduate schools were also ap­proved by the council The first recommended the use ofa two-hour final for graduate courses, but did not mandate the policy "because of differences in graduate education in the various disciplines." Grades may be based on the final exam alone in 
Mondale takes Pennsylvania easily 
Assodated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Walter F. Mondale easily won the Pennsyl­vania primary yesterday, defeat­ing a fading Gary Hart and rolling past the halfway mark in his quest for the delegates needed to capture the Democratic presidential nomination. 
Mondale called it a "majorstep forward" and said he had es­tablished new momentum. Hart, putting forth an optimistic face as he arrived in his hometown of Denver, told supporters, "We are headed into our territory, folks." 
With 62 percent ofthe vote in, Mondale had 45 percent of the vote to 34 percent for Hart. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson was winning Philadelphia -"with a poor campaign and a rich message," he said -and had 19 percent statewide. He sought a strong third-place rmish statewide to impress the party's the graduate school and post· baccalaureate professional programs, according to the second proposal. 
Philip Gleason, chairman of the Committee on Final Examinations, said, "It would seem to me that the thing has had a thorough airing. There was a good expression and representation of the points of view before the thing came to a conclu­sion. That was the purpose of postponing any action, to allow this question to be looked into before anything was brought to a fmal vote." 
The Arts and Letters College Council, the Faculty Senate and the Student Senate all had adopted for­mal positions on the proposed changes before yesterday's meeting 
of the council in  the  Center for  
Continuing Education.  
Timothy  O'Meara,  University  

Provost, formed the committee last March to study Notre Dame's fmal exam policy. The committee sub­mitted its report to O'Meara in May, but it was not brought before the Academic Council until Nov. 16. At that meeting, opposition to many of the _amendments surfaced, and the council opted to delay action so campus groups could study the proposal. 
The Arts & Letters Council sug­gested that final assignments be a suitable replacement for an exam in some courses, but the council did not accept this proposal. Also, the Student Senate voted Monday night to support the senior exemptions and the present one-third limit to final exam weighting, and not to sup­port an automatic 'F in a course for missing the final exam. 
The Student Senate was alone in its support of the exemptions. According to the committee's repon, abolishing the privilege was favored by "the college councils of science, engineering, and arts and letters; by the Faculty Senate; and by 
see EXAMS, page 3 
establishment with his ability to 
register thousands of black 
voters and then win their votes. 
Hart's remarkable winter surge 
thus ended with a springtime 
thud; after sweeping New 
England and claiming several vic­
tories elsewhere, he has lost Il­
linois, New York and now 
Pennsylvania -key states in the 
Democratic industrial belt. 
A total 172 Pennsylvania delegates was being apportioned. Mondale led for 107, Hart 11. .Jackson had just 2, but the Philadelphia count was slow. 
Five were uncommitted andJohn 
Glenn supporters claimed two 
spots. 
Mondale thus passed the half­
way point in his quest for the 
1,967 delegates needed for 
nomination in July. He claimed 
or led for I,018.8 delegates, 
compared with 569 for Hart and 
153.2 for jackson. . • 
"We're moving on up," Jact..­son said. 
Mondale claimed victory and said, "I'm encouraged to believe that what I have been saying about where I want to take the country, the differences as the public perceives them, is helping me gain momentum toward the nomination" and victory over President Reagan in November. 
"Something powerful ~ happening," Mondale said. "The feeling that is beginning to spread across the country is that we need a change in Washington. We came from behind and today we won big and I feel good about it." 
Hart said he would do better as 
the election calendar turns west, 
and before the sun set yesterday 
he was testing a new voter appeal 
in Ohio. 
Hart said where Mondale has 
see PRIMARY, page 7 
Easy win 
Gary bart, center, puts his arms around fellow contenders for the Democratic presidential nominatin jesse jackson and Water Mondale. 
Mondale easily gained another big industrial state win yesterday as be carried the Pennsylvania primaries. 
Senate calls for end to use of CIA funds to bomb Nicaraguan ports 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate yesterday passed a non-binding resolution calling for an end to the use ofCIA funds to assist in the mini­ng ofNicaraguan ports. 
The vote was 84-12. 
The Republican leadership agreed to support the measure in return for Sen. Edward M. Kennedy's agree· ment to defer a companion·proposal demanding that the administration reverse its decision to remove its Central American policies from World Court jurisdiction for two 
years. 
Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., said the compromise was outlined to Republican senators by Kenneth Dam, deputy secretary of state, at a closed-door meeting before the vote. 
"I think they want to liquidate the political damage," Pressler said. "The thing is not working, so they want to get it over with and go on to the next thing." 
Pressler voted for the com· 
promise, although he said, "The ad­
ministration has left us who 
supported the administration 
package (of aid to El Salvador and 
Nicaraguan guerrillas) in a difficult 
position." 

As part of the agreement, Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker Jr. agreed to vote for the Kennedy resolution on mining and Kennedy agreed to put off the matter of the World Court action until after a 10­day congressional Easter recess that starts Friday. 
Baker said that if Central 
American developments during the 
recess warranted further congres· 
sional action, he would confer with 
Kennedy and others to work out 
procedures for taking the ap­
propriate steps. 

Tanker cars full of alcohol explode in train derailment 
Associated Press 

MARSHVILLE, N.C.-At least two tanker cars full of alcohol exploded and spread flames through the downtown area yesterday when a freight train derailed, and all of Marshville's 2, I 07 residents were 
·~vacuated. 

"As soon as we get the area ~!eared we're getting out our­selves," said Union County Fire Mar­shal Kevin Stewart. No injuries were immediately reported. 
Emergency crews wearing oxygen masks were working at the scene, but others were kept a half­mile from the wreck site. 
Officials saidthe fire had spread to 
"I have no desire to hogtie the Senate," he said. 
Aweek ago the Senate rejected by a 61-30 vote a move by Kennedy to kill an administration request for S21 million in aid to anti· government guerrillas in Nicaragua. 
The resolution adopted by the Senate reads: "It is the sense of Congress that no funds heretofore or hereafter appropriated in any act ofCongress shall be obligated or ex­pended for the purpose ofplanning, executing or supporting the mining of the ports or territorial waters of Nicaragua." 
Its adoption made it part of a pen­ding tax bill, which if passed would be sent to the Democrat-controlled House for action. 
Last week's vote in the Senate was taken before most members of Congress had heard that the CIA was assisting in the mining ofNicaraguan waters, a move reportedly intended to disrupt arms shipments by the leftist Nicaraguan government to in­surgents in El Salvador. 
the town hall, and at least two 
downtown  businesses  were  
destroyed  when  derailed cars  
landed in them.  

Four ofthe 13 derailed cars on the Seaboard Systems train contained 281,000 gallons of methanol, a poisonous and highly flammable form of alcohol, but only two cars were reported burning, Stewart said. Four other cars, which didn't con­tain methanol, also were burning. 
Stewart ordered the town evacuated after the first explosion at 
10:07 a.m. He said the entire town of 2,107 people had been evacuated, including students at an elementary and middle school. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 11, 1984 -page 2 

In Brief· ~ · . : 
• ~ ~-..-.)1 t 
Prof. Petar Kokotovic. for more than 20 years a spc:dalist in control theory and its applications, is the visiting Kt·ating-Crawford Professor this semester in Notre Dame's College of Engineering. Kokotovi<: received graduate degrees in his native Bdgradt·, Yugoslavia, and in Moscow. Til\' Kcating-Crawford Chair mcmorializt·s Ikrnard.f. Kt·ating, the late founder and first prc:sidcnt 
of the Standard Tool & Supply Manufacturing Co. of Lyndhurst, N.J. -The Ohsert•er 
Chris Tayback. a junior from Holy Cross Hall, was elected Chairman ofthe Hall President's Council at the HPC meeting last night. Tayback was defeated earlier this year in his bid to become Student Body President. He served as the president of Holy Cross llall this year. In his sophomore year, Tayback was the student senator for District One. -The Ohsen•er 
The Senate last night rejected an attempt to reduce the federal deficit, hy delaying for three years the automatic annual tax cuts that arc scheduled to hcgin next January. On a 57-38 vote, the Senate tabled, or killed, the proposal by Sen. John Chafee, R-R.l., who said the nation, with deficits in the range of S I 75 billion to S200 billion a year, cannot afford to let the "indexing" plan take effect. Chafcc tried to add the delay amendment to a bill that would cut the deficit by about S63 billion over the next three years by raising taxes and reducing spending. Asimilar plan, raising taxes by 549 billion, is to be considered by the House today. -AP 
More than a million people surged into 
downtown Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, yesterday, for a rally demanding direct election of the president, which was abolished by the military regime that seized power 20 year ago. People packed the last five blocks of the 12-lanc President Vargas Avenue leading to a speakers' platform in front of the Candelaria Roman Catholic church. Huge signs and pennants proclaiming "I want to Vote for President" hung over tht· platform. The rally was by far the largest of many held over the past few months in various Brazilian cities in support of direct elections. -AP 
Pyotr L. Kapitsa. the Nobel-laureate physicist who hdpt·d build Soviet industry, died in Moscow Sunday at the age of 
89. Kapitsa was head of the Institute of Physical Problems for almost 50 years. lie shared the Nohel Prize in physics in 1978 with two Americans. Kapitsa was also an expert in magnetism, microwaves and clt:ctronics. -AP 
Of Interest 
A Prayer Senrice for Peace will take place 
tonight at 9:30 at the Grotto. Sponsorc::d hy Campus Ministry and the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Network for Peace, the prayer service will' include a slide show, "Disarming the Heart," based on the American hishops' pastoral lt:tter on war and peace. In case of rain, the service will he held at Sacred Heart Church. All arc welcome. -The Oh-
The Elkhart Emergency Room internship 
program is holding an informational meeting for all those interested in participating in the Fall 1984 program. Curren! interns will be present to answer any questions on the program, a part of the Patient-Family Liason Program of Elkhart General Hospital. The meeting, sponsored by the Anthropology Department, will be at 7 tonight in Room 32') Cushing. -The Ohseruer 
Weather ~-· ·,_ 
~ • J 
Mostly sunnyand mild today. i lligh in the upper 50s and low 60s. Partly cloudy and cool tonight. with the low in the upper 30s and low 40s. Chance of showers I tomorrow, with the high in the mid and upper · SOs. -AP 

The Observer-
The Observer ( l'SPS ~99 l--1000) is publisht·d Monda\ lhrnugh Friday and on homt· football Saturdays. ext:t.·pt 
during exam and va<..·ation periods. The 
Observer is publishrd hv 1hr sludeniS of tht· l :ntvt·r!'lir)' of Notre Damt· amJ ~aint Mary's Colkgl·. Subs,:riptiuns may hr.: purd1ased for ll~ per year ( II~ p<:r semt..·stcr) hy writing The Observer, 1'.0. llox (.}. N"lre Damc.lndiana ~6~~6. 
The Observer is a mt·mbcr "!The As­
~)clated Press. All rcprodu<..'tiorJ righr~ 
art• rcst·rvt•d 
Today's issue was produc:ed by: 
Protluclion Consu/tant .................... Stcve Dt•sign f."tlltor ................. GuiUcrmo Suarez 
Oeslg11 Asslsta111 .................. Lev Chapdski T)'pesel/ers ......... jennifer Bigou, Mic:hclll-Fanto Neu•s Editor................................ Mary Healy Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf f't•atures Cop}' Etlitor............... Cat Francis 
Features l.t~)•out ................. Kevin \X'illiams 
/If[} Day Ec/1/or ........................ llarb Stncns SMC OaJ•·lidltor........................jody Radll-r PbotografJber................... ...... Pete.: La<.:hl"~ 

Rude awakening at 6 a.m. 
ROTC has always held an important position at Notre Dame. From the Civil War and World Wars I and II to Korea and Vietnam, students from the llnivcrsity have served in tht· military all over the globe. And today, ap­proximately ten percent of the student body has signed up to serve in the armed forces after graduation in ex­change for some type offinancial assitancc. 
The men and women who arc in ROTC arc the same type of people as those who have chosen not to enter the program. They attend the same classes, live in the same halls, eat in the same dining halls, and socialize at the same parties and bars on the weekends. 
There is no real contempt for ROTCs today as there has heen in previous decades. They are as accepted as everyone else and their decision to enter the ROTC program no longer makes them prone to such names as "Babykillers" or "Fascist Pigs" as they once were on this very campus. 
The only great difference between regular students and ROTCs are the haircuts and the extra classes the 
ROTCs must take. That is, until recently. 
Now that the weather is becoming nicer, some Navy and Army ROTC units are jogging on the road that sur­rounds the campus. This is not unusual since this road is used by other joggers besides ROTCs. But the ROTCs do it very early in the morning. And they jog in large groups. And they shout loudly. 
Such slogans as, "Wake up sleepyheads!" and ''(Name 
ofyour hall here), wake up!" are some that can be heard outside your window soon after the sun rises. 
The logic behind this simply does not flow. Of course, it is understandable that they would want to exercise and· that they would want to get up early to do it. It is even understandable that they would want to increase comradery by shouting as they jog. But it makes no sense to wake up the rest ofthe student body who are comfortably resting from the previous day's hardships. 
Between striving for academia and organizing ex­tracurricular activities, students deserve the common decency of a good night's sleep. But apparently these ROTC units disagree. In addition, to reading for class, studying for tests or quizzes, preparing for presenta­tions, and planning one's social activities the ROTCs now add this early morning reveille to the trials of the Notre Dame student. 
Two suggestions: The first and most obvious would be to jog around Green Field and the Stadium. The dis-
You Can be a Navy Pilot 
months of graduation, under age 29 (30 for veterans) 
There are other Navy career opportunities available in: *Systems Inventory Management *Acquisition Contracting 
* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management 

* 
Nuclear Engineering 

* 
Flight Surgeon 


Starting Salary $17,500 plus medical benefits, travel, and rapid advancement. FOR MORE INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL: 
Navy Officer Programs atw 
1-800-382-9782 
Navy representative will be ON CAMPUS 10·12 April at the placement officef .. _.. _. 
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 
Inside Wednesday 

tance would be the same and they could yell their military lungs out and not wake up anybody. The second would be to jog around some of the neighhor­hoods of South Bend. There they could gain valuable experience of what it will be like on the front lines as they wake the hostile civilians. 
The Notre Dame/ROTC connection has seen its share ofconfrontation in the past. But previously it has been the students who were harrassing the ROTCs for their decision to enter the military. It is symptomatic of 
the changing times that now the ROTCs harrass the stu­dents for their decision to stay out of the military. 
Just as it wasn't complete­ly fair for Notre Dame stu­dents of more radical decades to harass their peers who joined ROTC, it is also not fair for 1984 ROTCs to wake up Notre Dame stu­dents who are not bothering anybody, but rather just trying to get some sleep. 
The peaceful protests of Notre Dame students in the late 1960s and early 1970s should serve as an example 
of how students can preserve their integrity and actually make things change 
for the better instead of allowing things to just happen for the worst. 
Now that the ROTCs have renewed the riff between themselves and the other students perhaps it's time for the students to peacefully defend their right to a good night's sleep. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff 

The Observer Wednesday, Aprilll, 1984-page 3 

jazz piano 
james Dapogny, who leads his own Chicago jazz I Band, gave a recital last night in the Annenburg · Auditorium. Dapogny is a pianist, bandleaderand ar­
new era ofspacecraft salvage.

ND places second in competition 
Dramatic as it was, the job won't 
By MIKE MILLEN Paul Conway, the contestants were News Staff given 57-page portfolios of a com­
pany in need offinancial advice, and 
Notre Dame placed second in yes­had 24 hours to come up with terday's Third Annual Notre Dame various solutions to problems of Invitational M.B.A. Case Competi­profitability, growth, and personnel. tion. Ohio State University came in Theparticipants, in order determined flrst over Notre Dame and the two by random draw, then gave 25­other teams competing, the Univer­minute presentations to a group of sity of Jllinois at Urbana-Champaign judges. and the University of Missouri-• Notre Dame has won the contest C<)lumbia. for the last two years, and Conway 
According to Finance Professor speculated that a difference in inter-

Weare willing to help! Stephen's Body Shop 255-2261 
341 Capitol Ave., Mishawaka We specialize in: collision repair, paint jobs, prestige autos 

Cocktail party planned for cotnmencetnent 
ByJOHN-JOHN AM ORES 
News Staff 

A new commencement weekend event, the Commencement Cocktail Formal, has been planned for Friday May 18 to welcome parents of seniors to campus. 
The event will begin at 9 p.m. in the North Dome of the ACC. It is open to all graduates, their parents, and relatives, and 3,000-8,000 people are expected to take part in the festivities. 
Patterned after the popular cock­tail dance on Junior Parents' Weekend, the event will include in­ternational gourmet fondue tables and a cash bar for refreshments. Music will be provided by a I 5-piece band, which will alternate with a disc jockey to provide entertain­ment and dance music throughout the evening. 
The cocktail formal was organized to provide enjoyment as well as uni­ty for the seniors and their families on Friday of commencement weekend. Ann Drolinger, one of the event's organizers, pointed out that in the past, most of the commence­ment activity started on Saturday. The majority of families arrived Friday, but since no events were scheduled for that evening, there was little to do. 
All seniors are invited, with or without family. Some students have asked for as many as nine tickets, and Drolinger hopes for an unqualified success at what she promises will be a "really good" time. The dress will be semi-formal, and the deadline to purchase tickets, at SS each, is April 
23. For more information, call Gary Puck or Ann Drollinger. 
Astronauts recover lost Solar Max satellite 
Associated Press· 
ranger for blues singser Sippie Wallace, and his 
CAPE CANAVERAL-Shouting 
scholarship in jazz history bas brought him national 
"we got it," Challenger's astronauts 
attention. 

plucked the costly Solar Max satellite from space yesterday and set it in the shuttle's cargo bay for an overhaul in orbit that ushers in a 
be complete until two astronauts pretation was a major factor in this venture into the open cargo bay year's second-place effort. "Our today to repair the satellite, which team concentrated on the financial was sent into orbit in I980 to study aspect of the case," he says, while the sun. the "judges saw it as more of a Challenger was 300 miles above marketing case." the Indian Ocean when mission 
specialist Terry Hart extended the 
Representing Notre Dame were shuttle's cargo crane and caught a second-year MBAs Jeffrey Gainey, pin on the side of the slowly spin­Faroog Naseem, and Kristina Stroin. ning satellite. In March they competed in a similar He snagged it on the first try, intra-college competition against saving a mission that looked like a five other Notre Dame teams. By failure only two days earlier when winning this contest, they qualifled astronaut George Nelson flew him­for yesterday's invitational tourna­selfover to it but was unable to dock ment. with it. 
The contest, sponsored by Hart gingerly locked the satellite Johnson & Johnson, boasted a into a special cradle. qualifled judging panel. Dr. Max President Reagan expressed his Wortman, Jr., a Stokely professor of delight. "Bob I understand that the management at the University of satellite you have on board would TenneSsee, served as chief judge. cost us about $200 million to build Also serving as panel members were at today's prices," he told comman­officials from Miles Laboratories, der Robert L. Crippen. "If you can't Clark Equipment Credit Corpora­fix it up there would you mind tion, and Johnson &Johnson. bringing it back?" 
House passes bill authorizing funds to operate Panama Canal in 1985 
Associated Press 
In the House, a bill that would aut­horize S443.9 million to operate the Panama Canal in flscal I985 passed on a 307-89 vote. The measure now goes to the Senate for a vote before going to President Reagan for his signature. 
The legislation directs the Panama Canal Commission to use S4I6 mil­lion for operating expenses and the remaining ll27.9 million for capital improvements. 
The canal was built by the United States at the turn of the century. Un­der a 1978 treaty, canal operations and property are gradually being transferred from the United States to Panama. 
The House Committee on . Government Operations endorsed a . study which said the nation's finan­' cia! system is threatened by sweep­: ing changes that have found banks, ! brokerages and insuram:e firms ; moving onto each other's turf 1 The study encouraged Congress i to draw up a national policy cover­
ing the rapidly expanding activities 
of banks, savings and securities companies and financial firms.  loans, other  
In  overseas  matters,  a  House  

Foreign Affairs subcommittee adopted three resolutions critical of South Africa's policies of racial segregation and asking freedom for 
Exams 


continuedfrom page I 

two of the three military science departments." 
The report also reaffirmed the committee's belief that one study day is acceptable before the begin­ning of final exams. The Student Senate had proposed two days, but "the other bodies that considered the final examination question do not regard the matter of study days as a problem," according to the report. 
That's precisely what the back-up plan is. 
Nelson and fellow astronaut james D. van Hoften, known to their colleagues as "Pinky" and "Ox," will climb into bulky space suits today and go into the cargo bay to ac­complish in six hours what they had planned for 12 earlier in the mission. 
They will replace a control box that is four feet high and four feet wide, to restore the satellite's ability to point its scientific instruments at the sun with precision. Fuses blown more than three years ago destroyed that crucial capability. 
Then the astronauts will cut through insulation, remove 36 screws, and swap out two electronic devices whose failure has shut down one of the seven experiments. If overnight checks show the satellite restored to health, it will be released into orbit tomorrow to resume its studies ofthe sun. 
The astronauts are to land near 
their launch pad at Kennedy Space 
Center on Friday, one day late. 

The capture, after a chase of I .8 million miles, came at a time when satellites are becoming ever more expensive. Solar Max, which cost $77 million when it was launched in 1980, would run more than $235 million today. 
that country's imprisoned black leader, Nelson Mandela. 
The panel also adopted resolu­tions criticizingSouth Africa's policy ofrelocating South African blacks in­to so-called African homelands, and asking the administration to block the opening of South African honorary consulate offices in the United States. 
In addition to Gleason, other 
members on the committee are 
joseph Buttigieg, professor of 
English; Morton Fuchs, professor of 
biology; Kenneth Milani, professor 
of accountancy; Kenneth Sayre, 
professor of philosophy; and Arvind 
Varma, ~rofessor of chemical 
engineering. 

Sayre replaced Father James Burtchaell, professor of theology, one of the principle authors of the .original report which he presented to the council in November. That report recommended weighting final exams not less than one-third and not more than two-thirds of the 
course grade. 

The Observer Wednesday, Aprilll, 1984-page 4 

Russians in space 
Soviet cosmonauts aboard the orbital complex "Salyut-7''-"Soyuz T-IO"-"Soyuz T-Il" during a con-
Report warns of Soviet military 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<;TON Ddi:nsc Senl"lary Caspar Wdnhcrgc:r said yesterday thc latest Pt·ntagon report shows the Soviet linion continucs to build a war machine aimcd at "world domination." 
A chicf goal of the third annual rt·port on the Soviet military is to holster nagging support f(Jr thl' Reagan Administration's rt"<:ord five­year defense buildup. 
The U.S. buildup, which will he in its !(Hirth year in fiscal 19H~. has run into incrcasing fire: on Capitol llill. Memlx·rs ofCongress worried about growing ti.:dcral deficits want to trim the administration's proposal for :S~O~ billion -a 13 pcrct.·nt boost -in authorized dcfc:nsc spending after inflation for the fiscal year bq~inning Oct. I. 
Last week. the Houst.· passed a budget resolution calling t(Jr a ~. S pcrn·nt hikc in dcfenst· authoriza­tion. Senate Republicans have agrc:nl to limit thc increase to Hper· cent. 
\Vcinhergcr said at a news con­ft·rt.·nn· the Soviet Union's military dlilrt means ··we have to make: vc:ry largt.· anti clearly unwelcome cf­I(Jrts" to build up l!.S. and NATO dl'fenses. 

The report contains little not al­ready madc public. Unlike many government documents, "Soviet Military Power" is designed to ap­peal to thc gcncral public. Printed on slick paper, it contains dozens of 
colorful  graphs  and  easy-to-read  
charts.  
The  Pentagon  distributed  
~2~.000  copies of its  19H_1 report  

and hopes ro pass out even more of the latt·st edition in the United States and Europe, Weinberger said. 
Thc report shows that "quantitatively we're behind in a large number of very important categories," Wcinberger said. 
The Soviets arc testing two new strategic intercontinental ballistic missiles, the SSX-24 and the SSX-2S, the publication said. It added that "there are no security requirements for the dcvl'lopment of so large a quantity of strategic offensivc weapons." 
The llnited States is currently planning to deploy long-range MX nuclear ICBMs starting in 1986 and is currently trying to develop a second nt·w ICBM, dubbed "Midgetman," t(Jr deployment later. 
Other developments cited in the Pentagon report include: -The Soviets arc nearing deploy­
ment of three types of cruise missiles -low-flying, winged craft which the United States has already put on some long-range B-~2 bom­bers. 
-The Soviets last year laid the keel for their first large aircraft car­rier, a nuclear-powered vessel which will be about 60,000 tons and will he able to handle carrier-based jets and bombers. The U.S. Navy now has 13 aircraft carriers and is build­ing two more, each of which will he more than 90,000 tons. 
-The Soviets also deployed their second Typhoon-class missile-firing submarine last year. The Typhoon is larger than the American Trident subs, five of which arc now in the 
U.S. tleet. 

-Last year, the Soviets also built the first ships in two new classes of attack subs, known as "Mike" and "Sierra." That gives the Soviets eight different types of attack subs C<)mpared w only one class ofattack boat for the United States. 
-Soviet military space efforts have induded a laser site at Sary Shagan, which would give the Soviets a prototype anti-satellite weapon by late in this decade, according to the report. 
Kremlin orders education reforms 
Army spy held on bail; sold secrets to USSR 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. Former 
Army counterspy Ril'hard Craig 
Smith was ordered held in lieu of 
$~00,000 bond yesterday in U.S. Dis­
tril't Court after admitting to the U.S. 
government that he had sold 
military secrets to tht· Soviet Union. 
Smith, 40, of Bellevue, Wash., sur­rendered to the FBI last Wednesday because he thought he had been detected. lie made the admission in hopt.·s of becoming a double agent and avoiding prosecution. accord­ing to a ti:deral prosecutor. 
I k will bt· arraigned Friday before Ii.S. District judge: Albnt V. Bryan on five counts of selling information about six li.S. doublc:-agt·nt opera­tions in whkh servicemen posed as traitors to lt·arn the targets, pc:rson­nc:l and methods of the KGB. the Soviet spy agency. 
Smith, who could fae<.: life: in prison, surrendered to the: FBI last Wednesday at Dulles International Airport and was indicted Monday. The grand jury said the financially strapped real estate investor, who dc:clarc:d bankruptcy in 1982, was paid $1 I,000 by the Soviets and was offered $100,000 to S I ~0.000 for additional information. 
At a bond hearing yesterday, Smith's court-appointed lawyer, William Cummings, argued that he: should he rc:lc:asc:d on his own recognizance:. Cummings said Smith would plead innocent and "wants to answer the: chargt.·s." 
But Bryan said, "The danger to the: community is very apparent to me:" ifSmith were released without bail. 

"He has the ability to seriously en­danger the national defense. His cooperation is helpful to him, but the JVotive for cooperation when in­dictment is near is not always en­lightenment," the judge said. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph Aronica told the court that Smith had initiated his contacts with the Soviets in 1982 and gave them details of six double-agent opera­tions mounted by the Army Intel­ligence and Security Command. for whil'h Smith worked as a counterin­telligence officer from 1973 to 1980. 
Since February. however, Smith has been talking to the FBI about his case. 
But Aronica said, "Smith came for­ward not out of love for his country, but because he believed that he had been detected. He bc:lieved that the Japanese had surveillance of the Soviet commercial compound" in Tokyo, where Smith allegedly met with KGB agent Victor I. Okunev on Nov. 7. 1982 and Feb. 13, 1983. 
"When he c::ame forward, Smith did not say what he gave up, but he told a story that he had conned the Soviets out of S I I ,000," Aronica said. "It was not until he was con­fronted with some unusual events affecting double-agent operations that he finally began telling what he had done. 
"lie was hoping then that he would he used as a double-agent and would not he prosecuted," Aronica said. 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Tht· Communist Party Central Committee yesterday issued decrees increasing the responsibility of local governments and endorsing an education retimn designed to raise teacher pay and t·ntice more students into factory work. 
Party leader Konstantin !I. Chcr­nt·nko tiJt'Ust·d on domestic issues and said little about foreign policy during his :tddrcss to the more than _'\00 commmittc:e members, accord­ing to a tt·xt of his speech puhlisht·d by Tass, the official news agency. 
There was no announcement of 

any major personnel change. Addi­tions to the ruling Politburo. which now has 12 members, arc dcddcd at Central Committee sessions. Addi­tions to the powerful party secretariat also could have been made, hut they usually arc not publicly announced. 
The policy-setting committee ap­proved a resolution calling on local government bodies, or Soviets, to take more responsibility in economic, political and cultural ac­tivities and to reduce their reliance upon central authorities. 
It also endorsed a school reform 
vocational schools anti factory work. It said the nation should "improve radically labor education and voca­tional gudance." 
Chernenko said the reforms would include salary increases of about ~0 to 3~ percent for 6 million teachers over the next five years. Elementary schoolteachers current­ly earn the equivalent ofabout SI47 a month, while the average worker gets about S2SS. 
The decrees will be ratified today when the I ,SOO-membcr Supreme Soviet, the national parliament, meets to begin its I 1 th five-year 

Applications for • " 
ASSISTANT TREASURER .. STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Must presently be a Sophomore Accountino major 
If you have any question. stop by or call239-7417 and ask for AI. 
Appl'icalions Due 
Friday, April13 4:00PM 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 
"BRUNO~" 


THIS WEDNESDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16" pizza with l topping 
for only $5.95 
Each additional topping 
$1.00 extra 

Order 2--$1 offtotal price 
Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotal price 
Mon -Tb.urs  Fri-Sat  277-4519  
4·.JOPM  Unti112 am  Open  Sunday  
4-10 pm 
277-4519  

-------------~-----------------------~ 



Wednesday, April 11, 1984 -page 5 
Report says women hold almost one-third of management jobs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan Administration revised its budget forecast yesterday to cut the projected deficit for this fiscal year $5.9 billion to $177.8 billion. 
The slightly smaller deficit is at· tributed partly to the faster pace of the economic expansion than had been expected, which helps bring in more money to the government's coffers. 
The rev1sron projects the economy will expand a healthy 5 percent this year. The administra· tion was predicting a 4.5 percent ex­pansion, as measured by the inflation-adjusted gross national product, from the fourth quarter of 1983 to the fourth quarter this year. 
The administration also lowered its forecast for unemployment to 7.5 percent of the civilian-military workforce in the last quarter of 1984. It had been projected at 7.7 percent, but the rate already tumbled to 7. 7 percent in February and March. 
The projection also boosted the administration's assumption for in­terest rates from 8.3 percent to 8.8 percent in the final quarter of this 



By Earning College Credits In 
SUMMER SESSION 
This summer, you can earn college credits while you're getting a tan. Saint Xavier College offers more than 100 courses in 27 fields of study, including art, business, computer science, criminal justice, education, English, history, mass communications, physical sciences, psychology, sociology and more. 
For a brochure, call (312) 779-3300 or send coupon today. 
rT..] Saint Xavier College 
["'"D 3700 West 103rd St., Chicago, IL 60655 
Please send me a Summer Session brochure: 
Name -------------------------------------------­
Address ---------------------------­
City___________________ State______ Zip_____
I" 

Send to Summer Session Director, Saint Xavier College. 3700 West 103rd St.. Chicago, IL 60655 
~ ....... _........................... "' ...-... -................. . 
That's up from 18.5 percent a year. That is measured by rates on decade earlier, said Suzanne Bianchi three-month Treasury bills, which and Nancy Rytina, who prepared the were 9.66 percent in Monday's auc­study. tions. "Women have been at the vortex 
The budget adjustments, made by of sweeping changes in demograp­the Office of Management and hic, social and economic patterns" Budget, are required by law. in recent decades, Ms. Bianchi said. 
In making the revisions, budget Today, she observed, women are officials did not take into account less likely to have children and more any of the deficit-reduction likely to finish college, and they are packages under consideraion in making ever greater inroads in the Congress. workforce, although earnings 

Traffic safety agency investigating defects in Ford and Mercury cars 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The govern­ment, already pressing a suit to have 
1.1 million General Motors cars recalled because of brakes that lock prematurely, announced an inves­tigation yesterday into reports of similar problems in 431,000 Ford and Mercury cars. 
The investigation by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administra­tion focused on 1979 Ford Mustangs and Mercury Capris, after the agency received 160 complaints about rear brakes locking. 
"We have opened a defect inves­tigation" into the Ford cars NHTSA spokesman Hal Paris said. If the 
r-~;~~~~;~;~u;~;-l 
t  These new lenses are  t  
t  --easier to care for  t  
t t  --solutions less costly --longer life than soft lenses  t t  
t  Dr..James M. Bowers  t  
t  1606 Miami St.  287-2379  t  

L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.Senior Formal Announcements 
All those who bought Second City tickets may pick them up Friday before the show at the Second City box office. Early seating is advised. 
Don't forget to order your flowers! Wygant's will deliver them to the Palmer 41tl"'-'. House on Saturday. 
r ,__... 

R Aad la.t bat not lea•t. have the tinae of your IUe!! 6of. 
agency finds a safety defect, the government could order Ford to recall and repair the cars. 
But as has been shown in the GM X-body case, the maker is free to challenge a recall. The government is embroiled in alengthy civil suit against GM seeking the recall of 1.1 million 1980 X-body cars, alleging that the cars have a design flaw that causes the rear brakes in some of them to lock prematurely and send the car into a spin. 
A federal judge has heard argu­ments in the suit against GM for· more than a month and both sides believe that the trial will go on for at least another month. GM denies there is a defect in the X-body cars. 
remain below those of men. 

"The question for the upcoming 
decades is wnere the balance will be 
struck between the roles of women 
as wives and mothers and women as 
workers and economic providers for 
their families," she wrote. 

On the same day the Census study 
was released, Heidi Hartman, a re­
searcher at the National Academy of 
Sciences, told a congressional panel 
that women still face pay discrimina­
tion. Wage rates for jobs traditional­
ly held by women are depressed, she 
said, adding that is why working 
women earn less than the wages of 
working men. 

In the new Census study of 
women in the workforce, one of the 
largest numbers of female managers 
was in medical and health related 
operations, where they were more 
than half at 50.8 percent. But that 
was actually a decline, from 60.6 
percent ofsuch managers in 1970. 
Next highest was personnel and 
labor relations specialists, which 
climbed from 33.4 percent women 
in 1970 to 4 7 percent in 1980. 

And women also made up a sig­
nificant share of postmasters and 
mail superintendents, 43.5 percent, 
up from 31.8 percent. 

Perhaps the most significant 
growth came in the area of public 
administration. In 1970 women 
made up 21.7 percent of the public 
officials in the country, but no 
women were counted as chief ex­
ecutives ofgovernment agencies. 

By 1980, 11,876 women headed 
government agencies to make up 
25.6 percent of those chief ad­ministrators, and their overall share of public officials had climbed to 
· 33.6 percent. 

NHTSA officials, in announcing the investigation of the Ford cars, did not allude to the GM case, al­though acknowledging that the reports received from the Ford owners are similar. "There is a similarity as far as there are brakes locking prematurely. Whether it's caused by the same thing we don't know," said Paris. 
Paris said that the 160 complaints from Ford and Mercury owners received by the highway safety agency included 54 reports of acci­dents involving at ieast 15 injuries. 
Ford issued a statement denying there is a defect in the cars and said it is cooperating with the NHTSA in­vestigation. 
"Ford believes there is no defect in the 1979 Mustang and Capris brake systems and that the NHTSA investigation should reach the same conclusion," Ford spokeswoman Barbara Mansfield said. She said Ford has conducted several years of tes­ting that "supports the conclusion that there is nothing wrong with the brake systems in question." 
The Ford Mustang and Mercury Capris are rear-wheel drive cars. The GM 1980 X-body cars -the Chev­rolet Citation, Pontiac Phoenix, Oldsmobile Omega and Buick Skylark -are front-wheel drive cars. 
NHTSA says it got more than I,700 complaints of brakes locking prematurely in the X-body cars including reports of accidents involving 15 deaths. 
Government investigators have argued that the GM brake problem stems from the maker having used brake linings that are too aggressive. They also allege that a different brake drum and a different type of valve to regulate brake line pressure should have been used. 
li 
I 
~ 
~­
I, 
'1!J 
'\1 
1 
1 
, 
.. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 1 f, 1984 \--' page 6 

Buying your leased phone now saves you time and money next term. 
This year, don't leave for home without your phone. Buy it before sum­mer and save yourself some time and money. Buying your AT&T leased phone now means you'll have your phone with you the very first day back to class. 
To buy the phone you're leasing, just call AT&T Consumer Sales & Service's toll-free number. Or visit any of our AT&T owned and operated Phone Centers. It's that easy. So call us before you say goodbye. Then unplug your phone and take it with you. And have a nice summer. 
1-800-555-8111 
Call this toll-free nwnber 24 hours a day. 
Mishawaka 6502 North Grape 




AT&T 
ICI1984, AT&T Information Systems 

----------------11111111111!11-... TheObserver Wednesday, April II, 1984-page 7 
~ 

' 
t t 
Overnight steelviolence 
Masked French steelworkers early Thursday morn­ing in Longwy, a province of Lorraine tn eastern France, threw bolts and rocks at riotpoliceforces. The 

Poll shows voters think Mondale has chance of defeating Reagan 
Associated Press employment remains in double digits, were concerned more about NEW YORK -Former Vice Presi­"bread and butter" issues than the 
dent Walter Mondale apparently threat of nuclear war or American convinced voters in Pennsylvania's military involvement in Central Democratic presidential primary America and the Middle East. that he has a better chance than Sen. In the CBS news-New York Times Gary Hart to defeat President poll, for example, three-fourths said 
Reagan in November, according to they were concerned about un­network exit polls. employment, poverty or both. Half Only about one-fourth of the the respondents in that poll said voters questioned after they cast either they or some other members their ballots said they think Hart has of their households had been out of the better chance to beat Reagan, work in the last year. while more than half said they think 
In the ABC news poll, 60 percentMondale has the better chance, 
said unemployment is the most im­according to the NBC news poll. 
portant problem facing the nation ­Mondale voters also are more and among those people, Mondaleconvinced their candidate will win had 48 percent to Hart's 35 percent.
the Democratic nomination, accord­ing to the NBC poll. By a 4-1 ratio, Mondale also cut into what had Mondale voters said they think he been the touchstone of Hart's will win the nomination at the con­strength in earlier primaries -the vention in San Francisco in July, young, upwardly mobile urban and while fewer than halfthe Hart voters suburban professionals known as polled said they think the Colorado "yuppies." senator will the nomination. Hart could do no better than a 
And about one-third of the NBC standoff with Mondale in the ABC poll respondents said Mondale news poll, for instance, among would make an effective president, under-30 voters, those with white­· compared with only one-fifth who collar jobs, those with college said Hart would make an effective degrees and those earning more president. than 530,000 a year. Mondale, 
The network polls said voters in meanwhile, swept the blue collar Pennsylvania, a state where un-vote by about 2-1. 

AII.~NTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
.. 

Caps -arld GQ~ns / 
--....-=-~--=-~...:.·--·.:·.:...·...::.·,:;.-. . . . . -t .­


' WEDNESDAY,APRIL~~ 
-_-.. ~ .... ,'. -.,. ...... .• ~ -. ­
.. -­

_, -\>. Betwe~n 9:QO -==-4_;po -_. \~­.. ,-.:-~.. '-·~· ·\ at the / ,_ ~ -~-' 
J _.. 
~-. 

.;NOTRE DAME 
-.>,-; ··. -• ~-.:. -------..' -, .-.,. ' 
.-.:~---~~----BOOKSTORE 
-·>.": ~:~.:.~ \· .-. .~ . . > 
~· 

····!l!i~-.-.lia:!a=a••-1'1<:•-•••••••-•••~~~~
. . 

.... ... 
~ I I II II I • I II I I II I I ~ • • .,_ • 

. .·_ ......\..··.· ~-~ .. ,. .................... ~.
' ........ ---... ._ .... . ~ 
End of auto slump brings workers back to plants in smaller numbers 
Associated Press · get your son a job if your life 
DETROIT -The end of the U.S. car sales slump has brought thousands of workers back to auto factories, like the one in Kansas City, Mo., that President Reagan will visit today. 
Despite higher profits, however, the nation's automotive workforce has shrunk by a third in the past six years, and thousands ofautoworkers never again will work inside a car plant 
The decrease in jobs is part of an industry-wide trend toward using fewer workers and importing many parts, a United Auto Workers local president said yesterday. 
"At one time, we had grandfat­hers, fathers and sons working here at Ford," said William Barker, presi· dent of UAW union Local 249 in Kansas City. "But now, you couldn't 
depended on it ... 
"We have a bunch of young guys who have families. They need jobs too. McDonald's can't hire them all." 
More than 735,000 hourly workers built 13 million cars and trucks in America in 1978, a boom year in which the industry racked up profits approaching S5 billion. The UAW says that of those 735,000 workers, 225,000 have been laid off for good. 
This year, the automakers expect to build nearly 1 I million vehicles and make profits exceeding $6 bil­lion, but with a workforce only two­thirds as large. 
The White House said in advance 
of Reagan's trip that the economy 
has improved under Reagan and 
Ford Motor Co.'s Kansas City as­
sembly plant has rehired 2,000 
workers. 
Barker says 600 or 700 of those people came from a dozen closed or partly idled Ford factories around the country and that the Kansas City plant still has 1,500 or more workers on the street. 
Twin cars, the 1984 compact Ford Tempo and Mercury Topaz, are made in Kansas City, along with light trucks. Ford automated much of the plant when it changed to the smaller cars and quit making the Ford Fairmont-Mercury Zephyr here. 
Barker said the plant had 5,600 production workers in 1978 compared with 4,027 today. Of those who did not come back, "some left town, some have jobs, I imagine," he said. 
The plant Reagan will tour, Barker said, is a good example of a trend in the car industry: the use of fewer workers and more parts from over­seas. He said the cars have foreign­made transmissions, while those in the cars they replaced were American-made. 

Conrail to spend more on service, track improvements and equipment 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Conrail plans to spend S520 million in 1984, or about 1 5 percent more than last year, on track improvements, equip­ment purchases and other capital projects, the company announced yesterday. 
Lines scheduled for major· im­provements include the Cleveland· Indianapolis, Indianapolis-St. Louis, West Virginia Secondary, Boston· Albany, Columbus-Cincinnati, and Harrisburg-Pittsburgh. according to Conrail spokesman Robert Sullivan . 
The railroad said the money will improve customer service, reduce opt:rating costs and support and ex­pand its ability to market current and new services. 
"The additional plant and equip· ment efficiency improvements con· tained in this budget will advance 
Conrail's position as a leader in
... ......... -.... . 
providing high-quality, dependable, low-cost rail freight transortation service," Conrail Chairman Stanley Crane said . 
The Philadelphia-based carrier ­consolidated Rail Corp. -was es­tablished by Congress in 1976 from the remains of six bankrupt North· east railroads. The railroad, which has 14,000 "route miles,'' made money for the first time in 1981 and posted a record profit of 5313 mil­lion last year. 
Primary 
continuedfrompage 1 
strong labor ~upport in the in'­dustrial states, tht: union connection 'ivould prove a disadvantage in the Western states to come. "Those states are much more favorable to us," said Hart. citing Texas, Oregon 
The increase in capital spending is "the result of two factors," Conrail spokesman Saul Resnick said. "Inflation is one factor, obviously, ami the other factor is simply to meet the continuing needs ofthe rail system." 
About S250 million of the capital budget is slated for track rehabilita­tion. Conrail plans to install about 480 miles ofcontinuous welded rail, 
1.3 million crossties and more than 
and California among others. 
"Tonight, we may not have won in Pennsylvania, but we are going to win the nomination of this party ­and we are going to win the presidency,'' he said. 
The returns, from 62 percent of 
the state's precincts, were: Mondale, 455,767 or 45 percent. Hart, 340,364, 34 percent. Jackson, 194,681, 20 percent. 

~i~~~~(=JI~~~·_I_l_t~________________w_e_dn_e~-~-,A-p-ril_ll_,l_98_4__p_a~-~ 

A new beginning for student government 
The nt.·w Notre Dame student government officers took over on April Fool's Day. Sadly, many studt.·nts felt it was appropriate. 
It is sad because this year's crop ofofficers seem to have the vision and leadership nn·dt.·d to make student government work ­and work well. 
This is said with caution, however, because with the exception of Don Murday's tenure, student government at Notre Dame has been ineffective and often meaningless. Of course, Notre Damt.• -and Saint Mary's -are not alone in their feelings of futility. Ever since students with long hair stopped throwing rocks at administration buildings in the mid· 
1970s, collegiate student governments have 
ht.·en searching for an identity. If you don't 
rebel, what do you do? IIold bake sales? Put up 
Christmas lights? 
The troubk is that at Notre Dame student 
governmt.·nt is a misnomer. The administra· 
tion has never allowed the student senate to 
have any real legislative powers. Whatever the 
senate passes is just another memo ofopinion 
on tht.· administration's desk. Last semester's 
fiasco about the Knights of Columbus build· 
ing, for example, shows what happens when 
Dean Roemer and the administration do not 
approve. 
We sincerely hope that Student Body Presi­dent Rob Bertino will give student govern· ment a much needed shot in the arm. He has the ideas. We just hope that he docs not get so hogged down with the niceties and for­malitks of being everybody's friend that he loses sight of the forest for the trees. Having been a senator, rathn than a hall president, should be an advantage for him. Instead of worrying about hall dances and interhall ath· lctics, lkrtino has been working on issues for the last year. And now more than ever, issues should be at tht.· top of Bertino's agenda. 
Within a week, for example, Bertino and the student senate will have to organize student response to tht.· expected changes in the at­cohol policy. The question might be moot, hut student government ha.~ got to show us now that instead of taking the policy as a giwn, it is willing to cry out against it and go down fighting. 

should make student government click. In several weeks, a University committee reviewing the present curriculum will begin 
making headlines. This one committee alone 
T h th .1 M 
meat to c ew on untt ay. o w at exten will Catholicism be forced upon students in theology classes? Is the lhiversity ever going to make a progressive move towards improv­ing the pitiful computer curriculum? Is the ,stringent curriculum for freshmen engineers 
going to be eased? Will liberal arts courses be 
made more available to students in science 
and engineering? Will scientific courses be of­fered more for students in business or arts and letters? 
The questions could continue. And so could the issues which the student govern­ment ought to address. 
Out of the ordinary 
It looked like any other bus and those who waited to board it looked like any other pa.~sengers-to-be. Often what appears the most routine is that which allows the most ex-
IMichael varga Eavesdropping 
could provide student government enough Jjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii•
1 
. 

traordinary to flash across the consctousness, to sear it so that it is forever altered. 
Hey, wait a minute. II was a city bas. In . South Bend. On a sunny Saturday afternoon. Don't make such a big deal out ofit. 
Exactly the point. It seemed so ordinary. 
We huddled at the curb near the bus's front 1 f h h.gh h 1
door, and inevitab y some o t e t sc oo kids started to push. If I hadn't been pushed b bl Jd • h
into his back, I pro a y wou n t ave noticed him. On his back, written in ink on his jacket 
· were the words:"Offer all to Him, the Gentle 1, K•·eper, tojesus Christ the Lord, all your heart 
~ 

; and all your soul." And as the crowd pushed, I 
Teacher-course evaluations ncc::d to he ,, could only tht.nk it bizarre to he roughly made public and taken more seriously, if not fiorccd aga1·nst ht·m whose hack reminded all revamped altogether. Comprehensive:: course who cared to read that there:: was somewhere 
evaluations should he compiled and a Gentle Keeper. published by student govcrnmc::nt, similar to Eventually we did all board the bus. I could 
the college evaluations published by The New see that some seats were empty in the back so York Times. Student-faculty relations are poor 1 moved around the standing passengers and at best and need strengthening. The Univer-I took a seat beside a very fat woman. Her child 
sity's investment policy and its dealings with its employees needs to be questioned. 
A student should sit on the Board of Trus­tees as a voting member. The library system is sad, as reflected in a national study last fall, and could stand a great deal ofimprovement. The booksrore's prices are not competitive; class­room space is limited; the telephones work poorly; and LaFortune is simply a disgrace. 
These are just a few of the things student government should have been addressing all along. We don't want good policitians; we want action. In this regard, we put our hope in 
Bertino and his vice president, Cathy David. 
During the campaign, Bertino and David convinced the student body that they could make student government more than a joke. 
The ball is now in their court. We just hope · they remember that if they ever become satisfied with how student government· works, it is time to resign. There is much that a student government needs to do. 
_ The Observer 
L~l~t~i~~~~:t!e!r~a~l~~~th:e:·~m=e~a=n=~=~~~=l~c=a=u=se~~~·~t~h=a~t____________________
4 

sat in a cart beside her and she mouthed a cer­tain gibberish which it alone seemed to un­derstand. 
How come you found a seat and these others stood? 
Apparently they were unwilling to go to the back ofthe bus. They stood, immobile. I simp­ty navigated around them like a ship coursing around a chain of islands. He was one of the 
islands. I could see his "inked back," his hands . gra.'iping the handles ofthe seats on eitherside 
1 
ofhim. 

The bus moved on to the next stop and as soon as the driver spied more pa.'iSCngers, he called out: "Move back! There's room in the rear!" He refused to move. Those ahead ofhim echoed the driver: "Move back! Come on, 
voices continued to rise. The driver made his way toward the man, shouting ever louder: "Whal's wrong with you? Are you deaf? Move!" 
And the man heldfast? 
And the man held fast until the driver was within two feet of him. Then he suddenly punched the driver in the face. Everyone in the bus gasped as the driver fell backwards. 
Didn'tanyone try to help him? 
Th h 1 ad. d h. fi 
e punc on y unste te tm or a 
second. The driver quickly regained his 
balance and leveled a right into the man's face. 
What did all thepassengers do? 
They were fairly silent at first. But as the two men clawed at each other, knocking against folks in the aisle, falling on those seated, some began to scream. 
Didn't anyone try to stop it? 
No. We watched as though it were televi­sion. Many of the kids cheered and hissed as they argued over which would win. We watched a.'i ifit didn't concern us, a.'i ifit were 1 unreal. 1 h · ;~
Why didn'Iyou do somet mg.
At one point the driver looked like he was I ~ d
going to lose, and at that moment .oun
h f h • all h 1 W

myselfshouting: "W at i e s re y urt. e 
need that driver to get home!" But no one paid 
h . d d h d . k. k. 
muc mm , an S<X)n t e rtver was tc mg
the man who had now fallen to the bus floor. And then it happened. 
What happened? 
The woman beside me -the overweight one-screamed: "He'sgot a gun!" Suddenly it all became real. Everyone struggled to get out ofthe bus. Since the man was on the floor out ofour view, we couldn't tell whether he really had a gun or not, so we scrambled to save our Jives. 
Many were hurt as they fled through the 
windows and the middle door. Soon the bus 
was emptied but for the driver and the man, 
whom he continued to kick and punch. 
Didbe kill bim? 
No. He literally kicked him otl'the bus into the hands ofthe waiting )X)Iice who took him away. They didn't find any gun. 
They didn't? 
No. There had never been a gun. It's hard wl say why the woman had shouted such a thing,­
move it!" But he didn't budge. His hands were. but she certainly had. We had all heard her 
riveted to the shiny handles at his sides. 'and reacted to it. It was her shout that had Wby would be do tbal? stirred us to life, involving us in the drama it-I don't know. Some sort of territorial im-self-a glass-shattering, blood-spillingdrama. 
perative was at work, I gues!> · The noise As we boarded another bus some of the started to build. Passengers' voices mixed high school kids taunted the fat woman. But with the driver's; it was hard to tell who was she merely hugged the wailing child, and saying what. Strangely, most of us sat silent, whispered S<)me unintelligible gibberish in its 
pcrh~sse~~~~~~~~ingasan~e= 


Jackson's rainbow signals storm 
jesse.Jackson has become a potential power broker in the Democratic nomination process. The question is whether he will use his dramatic political talent to fashion a new bi;Kk·white consen!'>US, as Martin Luther King 
Max Lerner 
The Lerner column 
did, or whether he will use it divisively, with a polarizing effect. 
Jackson has made history for his fellow blacks and the political culturt.·. Aided hy TV, he has become a political star instead of nu·re· ly a marginal black presidt.·ntial candidate. 
lie has persuaded blacks to register. and won their overwhelming suffragt.· through helping them t·nhance their self-image. These art.· impressive breakthroughs, and, evt.·n if 

Jackson did nothing else, they would make 
him a historical figure. 

His new strategy is to convert these voting 
gains into structural black )X)Wer. lie 
demands a commitment from Democratic 
Party leaders to change the rules of the game 
in Southern state primaries and eliminate the 
second or "runoff" round. 

Theodore:: White has noted that while this will elect more black Southern congressional Democrats for a time, it's long-range uni· Intended consequence will be _to push the 
Southern whites into the Repubhcan Party. 
This will follow because a polarizing in­
itiative is bound to get a polarizing response. 
There is a very good case to be made for runoff 
primaries, not on ethnic grounds but on the 
grounds of rule by majority rather than 
plurality. That is how most modern political 
thinkers have viewed it. 

Jackson doubtless sees his pro)X>sed change 
in terms ofethnic justice, but when the smoke of the )X)Iitical battle has cleared it will he seen as ethnic power politics, and the conse­quence will be to polarize )X)Iitics ethnically, not only in the South but in the nation. 
This is the irony contained inJackwn's talk of a "rainbow coalition." He talks of a spectrum of unity, yet he acts with divisive­ness. The best recent instance has been in how he res)X>mled to the threat of Louis Far­rakhan, his close friend and political ally, leader of the "Nation of Islam," to kill Milton Coleman and his wife. 
Coleman is the black political reporter for the Washington Post who has the courage and professional integrity to stand by his account of JackS<m's "Hymies" and "Hymie-town" remarks about the New York Jews, which have become JX>Iitical history. The black 
! leader's denunciation of M-s. Coleman wa.'i an unbelievable farrago of threats and the most blatant and abusive sexual innuendo. 
Pressed to disassociate himself from the outrage ofFarrakhan's threats,Jackson limited himself to a knuckle-rapping remark that Far­rakhan was "wrong." He saw it only as a "conflict" between the two men, both "professionals," and offered to mediate it. 
It was as if there he bore no rcs)Xmsibility for his ally's language, and had no concern about the freedom of re)X)rters, whether black or white, and had no sense of national interest in having a press which stands up against threats of punishment and death for writing the truth. 
This is the same Jackson who is playing the 
historical role to become at once an ethnic champion and a national leader. Be won't achieve it by presenting one persona which pleads for a "rainlx)w" unity, and another which practices ethnic )X>larization and divisiveness. 
(c) 1984, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . ..... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is availabie to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ... , ......... Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966

community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor .............. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 

Viewpoint Wednesday, Aprilll, 1984-page 9 
f. 

Radio's response loud and clear 
After reading all the recent hoopla over WSND-AM (the future WVFI) I would like to present the true situation regarding the radio move to FM, since people who are not aware of the complexites of the Federal Com­munications Commission (FCC) application process are making false statements. I am 
Robin L. Brown 
Guest column 

referring specifically to Mr. Dan McCullough's lnsid,: column on April 4, 1984. 
The past year (April 83-March 84) I have served as Assistant Program Director for WSND-AM. 
When I ftrst heard about the possibility of moving WSND-AM to WVFI-FM, I, too, saw rosy pictures of a simple move. I mean why wouldn't the FCC give ND/SMC another fre­quency for an FM radio station? We need a bet­ter quality rock station, so what's the hitch? 
The FCC is a government organization which polices the public airwaves. There are only so many FM stations that can broadcast into a given community and many more people and organizations that would like to have such stations. To get an airwave reserved for broadcasting, a group needs to ftll out a 75 page application, submit it to the FCC and wait a minimum ofone year. 
Ifa broadcast channel is open, the FCC will generally award the station to a group that will serve the needs of listeners not currently represented by a radio station. 
There are two types of FM stations: com­mercial and noncommercial. ND/SMC could not apply for a commercial FM rock station, because there is an FCC rule prohibiting an organization from owning more than three commercial stations. The two schools already have three. 
Therefore, the only option was a noncom­

mercial FM station. Locally, only ftv.e such sta­
tions are permitted and one of those 
broadcast channels opened up recently. Thus 
the application for WVFI. 
It is important to remember that ND/SMC already has a FM noncommercial station: 

P. 0. BoxQ 
Keep in mind 

DearEditor: 
A while back, a friend asked me what I'm going to do when I graduate, and his response to my new position with a New York bank was, "How typical." When I pressed him, he explained: "You know it's just so typical... Domer slaves at bank, marries, gets rich, bears children, dies." 
Hearing my life reduced to the basest trivium before I've even started living it forces me to contemplate exactly what Notre Dame (and SMC) offers us that might make our last 60 years better than "typical". 
I recently visited Georgetown and noted to a student the remarkable absence of an air of Catholicism throughout his campus. "Yeah, I know, isn't it great?!" he remarked. I explained to him that ND is famed as a forum for social justice, citing our Center for SocialConcerns, our reputation in Business and Legal Ethics and the Civil Rights record ofour president. 
Yet, I feel what is more pervasive and im­pressive at ND is the sense of social concern woven into the seamless garment of the day­to-day lives of her students. The informal friendliness, mutual respect and compassion Domers demonstrate toward one another and the needy in their community comprise the thunder that Notre Dame shakes down best. 
It is truly without parallel in the other schools I've seen. In my few years here I have watched an understanding develop in my friends and myselfthat life's bottom-line is not salary, or title, or GPA, but how we act and how those actions affect people. 
Exposure to the ND/SMC community adds 

to the prestige ofa diploma the strong poten­
tial for active application ofChristian compas­
sion in our "real world" jobs and lives. This is 
unique at ND/SMC. 
So, as May approaches and preparations for 

graduation seem more like funeral arrange­
ments than a baptism as a Christian loosed in 
h al ld, k · d h alifi d WSND-FM. This station is a Fine Arts station would probably not be approved. If we con­which is run and staffed by studentsfrom both tinued to pursue the application, legal campuses and volunteers from the surround-proceedings could take up to two years. ing community. The station estimates that it And we wanted to improve the quality now. 
has a minimum of 10,000 listeners Here, Mr. The FM application was a dead-end'5treet. To 
McCullough, is where students can get hands-help us, the Administraton hired Paul Matwiy, 
on radio experience into the community. a media consultant, to consider all the pos-
Since ND/SMC already has one successful\ sible solutions. As you can see, the adminstra­FM station, and because there is now another ' tion does not want to let a good idea die. community group which would like to have a Mr. McCullough's suggestion of "call(ing) media voice (they do not own a FM station), in a few favors to ensure that the application is the students of the AM Executive Board and granted . . ." is flrst of all ludicrous consider­the Administration decided that the FCC ing the power of the FCC and second, com· would in all likelihood not grant ND/SMC the' pletely out of the question. As a member of open channel. WSND-AM and FM, I cannot and will not adv-
There may be no legal facts stopping· ocate the use ofunderhanded pressure by our WSND-AM from getting a station, but the Administration, no matter how good the end reality is that the FCC does not simply award result. Indeed, Mr. McCullough, an employee on a basis oflegality. We decided that our bid j ofThe Observer should not advocate this. 
Instead, let's fmd a legal, viable solution. That is what Mr. Matwiy, Mr. James McDon­nell (Student Activities Director), Mr. Har­ry Kevorkian (WNDU) and those in WSND Administration are doing. 
They have proposed the installation of a completely new AM stereo carrier system (this means that WVFI will send an electronic signal through the electrical outlets in all Uni­versity buildings). This new equipment will alleviate transmission problems aJ;Id provide the crisp, state-of-the-art rock voice we are all seeking. 
Another added beneflt? WVFI can remain a 
commercial station and seek the advertising 
that Mr. McCullough suggests. Plus, it's not 
underhanded. 
The Administration has been behind us 100 
per cent. 
MMF MM fMMFlf.Rt\ WE~E EVEN! Mff MBRMM 
I 


ND has made us to really change that world in a positive way. Keep in mind the role of human justice in our daily and lifelong priorites. Keep in mind that we are Christians before we are bankers or engineers. 
Keep in mind that as Domers our top qualification is to effect change in the world out ofactive compassion. 
And most importantly, keep in mind the real, extraordinary love we have developed for the friends we hold here and are leaving behind, the powerful love that allows us as graduates to risk defeat in the name of propagating that love throughout the real world. 
How atypical. 
Greg Testerman Senior 
Press bias 

DearEditor: This letter is in response to The Observer coverage ofthe Mock Convention. 
First, the News Board, ignoring the histori­cal purpose of the Mock Convention, undermining the intelligence ofthe delegates, and demonstrating the same bias existing in the national media, gave preference to the Hart, Jackson, and Mondale campaigns by granting each ofthose campaigns a full article, yet condensing the legitimate and dedicated campaigns of Hollings, Askew, and Glenn into one article. 
The reason given, that there was a lack of space, is dubious when one considers the space granted some less deserving articles in the paper that week. 
Second , my comments during the debate · H II" • · · ·1·
concerrung o mgs positiOn on a m1 ltary draft were taken out of context. Instead of ex­plaining, ·as l·did last Tuesday night, about the 
h. h b " 
circumstances w 1c must e present 10r 
such a position taken by Hollings and noting 
that the other representatives declined to dis-
th tt th art" 1 d can 
didate appear as an extremist concerning his 
foreign policy. . 

Third , in covering my concession speech 
Friday night, the reporter made it seem as if 
the reason I didn't support Askew on the flnal · ballots was because some ofhis support came 
from pro-lifers. 

That is ludicrous! Instead, I pointed out that 
Askew did not support the nuclear freeze and 
differed on the economic policy and deflcit 
reducing policies ofmy candidate, Ernest Hoi­
lings. 

To imply that my decision was based not on 
careful thought and deliberation but on a 
whim which surfaced from the reactions of a 
handful of his supporters is not only an un­
truth, but is a slight to my ability to choose 
vvhom I support, saying I cared nothing about 
the Askew candidacy, only about the people 
who voted for him. 

My comments concerning the debate on by Mike Brogioli (Head of the Mock Conven­
'I 

tion committee for Mondale) accuses Brogioli ofassuming "that... experience gives some as­surance of competence and sound judge­,ment." However, upon re-reading the original Iarticle it becomes obvious that it is DeSantis, 
not Brogioli, who assumes too much. 
Following the mundane, generic form of 
most Observer news articles, David Robbins 
opened and closed his article on Mondale 
with a quote from Brogioli -the student 
"authority" on Mondale. 
This in no way indicts Robbins; and the 
purpose ofthe article was stated as "outlining 
the platforms and objectives of the can­
didates..." However, DeSantis writes as ifhe is 
reacting to a position paper or an in depth in­
terview with Mike Brogioli. 
The lesson DeSantis teaches concerning the 
ills of relying too heavily on a candidate's ex­
perience is invaluable. However, Brogioli 
whether Askew was a one-issue candidate :clarified his views concerning the importance were honest and straightforward, stating I felt of Mondale's experience stating "Mondale that my candidate and, later, Mondale, were believes in constant themes and has been able more comprehensive on all issues and more to modify his programs to flt the changing closely aligned on my, and my candidate's, Itimes..." political views. Clearly DeSantis has taken Brogioli's 
Finally, the Viewpoint board's decision to remarks out of context, and used him as a run the cartoon of Harold B. Augustine as the soapbox, standing and speaking out on a sub­Convention's nominee for President (April ject to which the artiCle only alludes. 6th), again shows the paper's attempt to Finally, while I do not defend Brogioli's criticize and slight the efforts of many characteristic Mmdale mud-slinging ­hardworking and dedicated persons who I"Hart's...trying to be a newJFK and people are labored for many months to make sure the [tired ofit." -neither do I agree that he should convention was a success. be used as a pigeon for a history lesson. 
In a time when so many do not use the TJ. Buckley privilege ofvoting that so many died for, it is a Sophomore shame that the paper tried to shovv its bias and skepticism for the politically concerned. 

Letters

joeMalvezzi Ernest Hollings Campaign Manager 
Have you read something in The Observer You enio,,ed? Wh,, not write a letter to the
" J J
• editor. Letters must bear the address,

N0 t a pigeon 
telehhone number and signature of the
r DearEditor: author(initials andpseudonyms are not ac-Professor Vincent DeSantis' letter in the 1 ceptable). All letters are subject to editing April 9 Observer concerning comments made and become theproperty ofThe Observer.
l!t~e~"~r~e~~vv~o~r~~"~e~e~p~i~n~m~In~~o~vv~q~u~~~e~_:cu::ss~~e~m~a~~e~r·~~e_:~Ic~e~m~a~e:_m~y~~~---~~~~~~~~------~----------~~~------~.~-~-----------------------------~ ....•.... 






Showcase 
Wednesday, April 1 1, 1984 -page 10 
Bob Ellsworth (left) and Bill Cavanaugh during dress rehearsals for Cavanaugh Hall's production of"The Sunshine Boys." 
Sir Obnoxious 

No Manners 

by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
F
or tho~e imbeciles who as yet are not aware ofthe news, Sir Ob­noxious is going to ht· the one to tdl you, whether you like it or not. 
Miss Manners is gont·. 
Yes, Sir Obnoxious' mannerful rival is history as far as Notre Dame 
is concernt·d. No longer will she take up an entire side ofa features 
page, and your feeble minds will he free to be influenced bymoi and 
only mot. 
And yet, Sir Obnoxious can't help hut fall from boorish perfection 
and fed a small tad ofremorse for his absent counterpart. Perhaps Sir 
Obnoxious was a hit hard on Miss Manners. But only a bit, mind you, 
and a very small hit at that. 
Sir Obnoxious is now going to do something, 0 annoying ones, 
which is also uncharacteristic of His Majesty, and that is to relate a 
story which is quite embarrassing and perhaps better forgotten. But 
that is for Sir Obnoxious to say, and not you. 
Years ago, children, Sir Obnoxious made a mistake which could befall even the best ofus-case in point -and that was when Sir Obnoxious and Miss Manners dined out together. 
Now, before the most loyal readership begins to doubt Sir Ob­noxious' credibility as a low-down instructor ofincorrect behavior, you must understand that Miss Manners seemed bad enough at the time, but Sir Obnoxious naively erred in judgingonly by outward ap­pearance, not knowing her true character. 
Obviously Miss Manners accepted the invitation under the same 
misapprehension. 
The events of the evening were ultimately memorable. Miss Man­ners wished to dine at a fine establishment; Sir Obnoxious insisted upon White Castle's. A compromise was reached and the choice was Red Lobster. 
Miss Manners shrieked slightly when Sir Obnoxious opened the door and entered first, and her surprise was just as evident when she was told to wait in the lobby because Sir Obnoxious "had to pee." 
Everything was fine until Miss Manners attempted to instruct Sir Obnoxious as to the correct manner ofeating his Alaskan King Crab. Threats merely encouraged Miss Manners' persistence, and at last Sir Obnoxious was so insulted that he tossed a few oysters into Miss Manners' iced tea (somethingonly rarely possible at the dining hall). 
Miss Manners then asked to be excused from the vicinity, and then vanished in the direction ofthe ladies' room. SirObnoxiouscan only assume that Miss Manners cried her heart out in shame, for upon returning, Miss Manners' eyes were quite red and her disgusting make-up had slithered down portionsofher face. Sir Obnoxious told Miss Manners he would understand ifshe couldn't bring herselfto apologize for her childish behavior, and Miss Manners asked to be driven home. 
Sir Obnoxious mentions this story, insipid readers, in order to teach you little rugrats a small lesson oflife, and that is that you can­not judge by outward appearance only. Miss Manners was quite atro­cious and Sir Obnoxious just assumed that she would enjoy such things as telling dirty jokes while munching on appetizers, or poking the waitresses with forks as they passed by. And obviously Miss Man­ners presupposed that simply as a result ofhis Richard Gere looks Sir Obnoxious would keep his elbows off the table and conceal his burps. 
Alas, the pitfalls of judging a book by its cover. Sir Obnoxious decided to put Miss Manners hack on the shelf. But still, now that Miss Manners is gone, things just won't he the same anymore. 
Perhap~ that is best. 
Yes, now that Sir Obnoxious thinks about it, it is. 
Dear Sir Ob,wxious: 
I don't have anything against the intentions of the World Hunger Coalition, but I had to wonder about what they did last Thursd·ay. Those disgusting see-through bins they put in front ofthe dining halls were gross and repulsive, and I think it just turned a lot of people offto the whole thing. Instead ofalerting me to the cause, those bins just showed me how far people will go to support a cause. And some of those suggestions on "what we could do" were really ridiculous. Am I wrong or what? 
Disgusting Reader: 
Yes, those bins were disgusting; yes, those bins were gross; and yes, those bins were repulsive. Sir Obnoxious loved them. Transparent bins full ofleftovers are a prime example ofthe spirit and creativity ofobnoxiousness. SirObnoxious himselfhad to stand and admire the sloshing potpourri ofdonuts, veal and chowder until he could takt· no more ofa good thing. And if you had any sense, you would have realized the potential of the suggestions on the sheets they handed out. Remember "Take only what you know you will eat?" Imagine asking the server to give you exactly 3.4 ounces of potato casserole, no more, no less, or you will bring it Sack. Or "If you cannot eat that last donut or cookie, take it home as a midnight snack." This is the type ofadvice Sir Obnoxious has been waiting for. Many a time has it been when Sir Obnoxious has been unable to finish a hdping ofbanana cream pk, or barbecued fried chicken, and has wished to take it home. And now Sir Obnoxiouscan do just that, knowing ht· has their support. And Sir Obnoxious' favorite sugges­tion on the sheet: "Ifyou take something and don't like it, go ahead and eat it ( }OU may think twice next time)." This is great. Eating the rest ofa bad chunk ofveal or apurple rib from a sick cow could pos­sibly lead to an ad-lib session ofbarfing at the dining hall table, and this is a most admirable feat as far as Sir Obnoxious is concerned. One last note: don't be surprised ifthe contents ofthose bins went straight around to the rear and back into the dining hall. Chow! 


Danny De Vito confronts Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner in "Romancing the Stone." 

Movies 

Romancing the Stone a gent 

by Cat Francis 
features copy editor 
M
any times, while rooting around the house for my copy of"The Way ofthe Rose" or "Uiysses,"I've run across one of my mother's Harlequin romances. My first impulse has invariably been to kick it across the room or hide it un­der a pile ofmagazines. Now I'm not so sure. After seeing"Romancing the Stone," I'm inclined to think there may be s~mething more than meets the eye in romance novels. 
"Romancing the Stone" is the story ofJoan Wilder, played by Kath­leen Turner, author oftorrid and lavishly sentimental novels, who is suddenly catapulted into a maze of intrigue closely resembling her own writings. She becomes the possessor ofa treasure map which she must use to ransom her sister. 
Deep in the Colombian jungle, Wilder meetsJack Colton, a bird trapper who unwillingly agrees to help her in exchange for the majority ofher American Express travelers' checks. From there, the duo is subjected to gun fire, attack­ing snakes, high speed car chases, an abrupt trip over a waterfall and a pit 

Sunshine Boys to benefit Sowder fund 
by Tom Mowle 
features staffwriter 
T
he golden· age ofcomedy . reached its zenith during the era 
.known as Vaudeville. In its annals, there are two names that can never be listed separately. They are more than a team. For Lewis without Clark is like peanut butter without jelly. This weekend Cavanaugh Hall will present, thtough the words of playwright Neil Simon, the duo known for half a century as "The Sunshine Boys" -AI Lewis and Willie Clark. 
In "The Sunshine Boys," Simon captures the bitterness oftwo vaudeville stars -at each other over the idiosyncracies that led to the breakup of their team, and at a society that st-em~ to no longer want them. 
Left without a show to do, Clark practices slap~tick in his own life, unable to shake offthe one-liners and puns that dominated forty-two years of performing. Finally, he gets his break: a variety show on the his-ofravenous alligators. During the course ofall this they, ofcourse, fall in love. 
"Romancing the Stone" is much like "Raiders ofthe Lost Ark," set in modem times. But "Romancing the Stone" pays a little more attention to the characters, while at the same time managing to remain what a friend titled "rip-snortinggood fun." Wilder, subjected to a barrage of dangerous anj confusing events, changes from a drab, shy and un­
-assuming woman to a true ad­venture heroine, able to throw a knife with the best ofthem. Turner gives an outstanding performance. Michael Douglas, playing Colton, is unshaven, unkempt and utterly charming. He provides much ofone of the film's greatest assets, its humor. The best lines in "Romancing the Stone" arise from the conflict between Colton, rugged, macho adventurer, and Wil­der, whose ftrst concern after surviv­ing a 200 foot mudslide is to search for a lost button. The film begins with a scene from one ofWilder's novels which paral­
tory ofcomedy. But to be in it, he must perform with Lewis, who retired their act before Clark wanted to quit. He agrees, but with reserva­tions. 
This weekend, the story oftheir 
leis the events at the end of the film, but with an important difference. Wilder's heroine, Angelina, relies on her hero, jesse, to come through in the end and save her. Wilder herself, faced with imminent death, manages to save herself. 
Another asset of"Romancing the Stone" is the well-shot scenery. The majority ofthe ftlm was shot in Mexico rather than Colombia, but after all, jungle looks like jungle, steamy, torrid and dangerous, no matter where it's located. 
Manuel Ojeda, as Zolo, plays a vil­lain to perfection -cruel, sinister, and willing to go to any lengths to secure the stone (an ancient emerald). He is in competition for the stone with Ralph (Danny DeVito) and Ira (Zack Norman), the New York hoodlums who have Wil­der's sister captive. 
The ftlm's score has nothing spe­cial about it, except that it is unobtrusive and never detracts from the action. 
"Romancing the Stone" is en­tertaining without being thougluful or moralistic. All in all, with South Bend weather continuing grey and gloomy, "Romancing the Stone" miglu he a good way to get a little color into your life. 
Cavanaugh IIall in Chautauqua Ball­room. This year's showtimes are i 
p.m. Thursday and 8 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Admission is free, although donations to the Andy Sowder Scholarship Fund will be accepted. Sowder, a former hall president. contracted spinal meningitis while on a ski trip in the '70s. Cavanaugh Hall has set up a scholarship fund with the University in his memory. 

The Observer Wednesday, April11, 1984-page 11 


Gerry Faust does not have to play defense in yesterday's Bookstore Basketball game, as the Esophagus Constrictors create their own problems. See the story on page 16. 
SUMMIIll STOllAGI SPACIJ 
Special discount for •DlSMO lhdtatJ 
(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 

CALL 259·0335 to USIRVI SPACI SELF LOCK STORAGE Or MCKIKLIY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 



Harlem 
~~~R~!=~~;
7:30P.M. Notre Dame ACC 
, Prices: $7 & $8.50 $2 discount for Notre Dame & St. Mary's students Faculty/Staff 
Tickets on sale at ACC Box Office 9a.m.-Sp.m. 
CATCH THE MAGIC! 
"In my job at the First National Bank ofChicago. Iam constantly using the knowledge acquired through my paralegal training at Roosevelt." 
-Am) RriU Estates. WiUs and ltusL' Gradu•lf' 


LAWYER'S ASSISTANT: 
AGROWTH CAREER FOR THE SO's 
Training as a l.awyer's Assistant can give today's college 
graduate a valuable edge in the job market. Entry· level positions in the Chkago area pay as much as $12,000 to li'S.OOO-and some paralegals are now earning as much as 532.000. 
It takes just three months ofdaytime study (six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. The program at Roosevelt University is the largest A.B.A.·approved program in IIIinois. and its re<:ord ofgraduate employment assistance is the best there is. 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL (312) 341-3882 OR MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! RECRUITER WILL BE ON CAMPUS, APRIL 18, 1884 
R(x>SEvEii"tiNiVE"R.~n-------------~-­
Lawyer's Assistant Program 12 • HoS. Michigan Ave.. Chicago, Ill. 6060'; • 
In t."CM~rauun W1th l'he NatMtna.l ( .(."Otl"r ft•r P..uodegaJ ·l·r;uning ­
PI~ send me acopy of the Roosevelt Lawyer's Assistant Program catalog. ~!:0 infl!rested in the D Chicago or D Arlingkm Heights location. 
Ci· ~tatt.· 
Uumc.-Phont" 
Bu~inc:~" Phonc.· 

Approved for V.A. and IlL State Guaranteed Loans 
RlK)Se\'eh llnivc:rsity admits all studc:nts un tht:' ha.<rti!'t of indi\·idual merit and withnur regard to rac.:c:. f...'olor. sc..·x or agt· 


Veteran corps 
Receivers' talent mns deep 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
Although spring is usually the time when football coaches are con­
cerned  with  fmding  dependable  
players  to  replace  graduating  
seniors,  such  is  not  the  case  for  

Notre Dame receivers coach Mike 
Stock. The Irish have all three start­ers returning at the split end, flanker, and tight end positions, and there are plenty of talented players to provide depth at all three spots. 
The split end position could be the deepest of the three, as Stock will benefit from the return of last year's starter, Joe ~Howard, and talented freshman Alvin Miller. At flanker, Stock has a proven perfor­mer in junior-to-be Milt Jackson, who, along with Howard,-started·, every game at his position in 1983. The tight end spot will remain in the capable hands ofMark Bavaro. 
Howard, who joined the team on Friday after finishing a fine season with the Notre Dame basketball team, is preparingfor his final year of Irish football. No multisport athlete in the country with a foot­ball/basketball combination can boast the accomplishments ofNotre Dame's 5-9 speedster, the team's leading receiver with 27 catches for 464 yards and two touchdowns in 1983. "Small Wonder," who had a 
43-yard reception against Boston College in last year's Liberty Bowl, caught at least one pass in every game but one last season. 
With a 20.5 career average per catch, Howard has a chance at Kris Haines' career team record of 21.5
... 

average yards per reception. 
According to Stock, Howard's stint with Digger Phelps' squad has not taken anything away from his desire to play football. · 
"When he came out on Friday he was as enthusiastic as ever," said Stock ofHoward. "He doesn't appear tired from the baskeball season. In fact, he's in great physical shape from playing basketball. With his knowledge and experience he's an important part of our team. He's a gritty player, a real battler." 
Competing with Howard for a starting spot will be 6-4 Alvin Miller, a lightning-quick receiver who played in all twelve games last season as a freshman. Miller finished 1983 in fme style, by catching three passes for 34 yards and a touchdown in the Liberty Bowl. An outstanding all-around athlete, Miller has already set a handful ofNotre Dame records as a hurdler and sprinter in track. 
"Alvin's been blessed with a lot of skill," said Stock. "He's made fast progress so far this spring. He has a great attitude and he's learning more every day. He still has a way to go, 
Applications are now being taken for the SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES TASK FORCE. 
Positions open include: 
1. 
Film Series Manager 

2. 
Faculty-staff Contact 

3. 
Publicity Coordinator 

4. 
Poster Artist 

5. 
Educational Media Contact 


DeadUne...Tuesdav, April I Forms available at the Center for·Social Concerns 
mhr tni!lltts nftll£ afastlt 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest ti-. ". minutes #rom campus 
~~ '"..,.._.;\ 

·-= . ~~ SPRING SPECIAL 
$5 Haircut only 
277-1691 



Haircut, Shampoo 
272-0312 


Blowdrv 
offer only aJ)1'1ies to male patrons 
Hrs: Tues. Wed: 8:30-5:30 54533 Terrace lane Thur, Frl: 8:30-8:30 AcrOss from Martin's Sat: 8:()()..2:30 
St. RQ, 23 CIQ~MQ!! .. 
Tlae Student Activities Board 

PUBLICITY COMMI1TEE 
is now interviewing for: 
•
assistant director 

•
committee coordinators 

•
Art Staff director 




*artists 
lnfol'lllation is avaUable at the Student Activities Board Offices on the 2nd Floo of Lafortune. 
but the indications are that he has a 
bright future ahead." 
Another ·returning starter for the 
Irish is two-time letterman Milt Jack­son at flanker. Jackson, with 23 . catches for 438 yards and three touchdowns, displayed tremendous improvements in confidence a ye·ar ago and became Notre Dame's big play receiver -with I 7 ofhis recep· tions coming in the last four games. With ex-flanker Mke Haywood now working at defensive back, Stock will be counting on Jackson to have 
another good year. 
"Milt has an exceptional amount 
of talent," said the Irish coach. He's 
made a lot ofprogress -he's on the 
upgrade. I'm also impressed with his 
attitude. He has all the physical and 
mental tools to be a premierplayer." 
Stock's primary goal this spring is 
to find a dependable flanker to back 
up Jackson. Several players are 
competing for that spot, but right 
now S-8 sophomore walk-on Pat 
Cusack is the leader. The other two 
players in contention for playing 
time at the wide receiver positions 
are 5-8 sophomore walk-on Mike 
James and 6-2 junior Mike Richer­
son. 

With two-time letterman Van 
Pearcy joining Haywood in the 
transition to defensive back, and 
freshman walk-on jim Folstrum out 
with a neck injury, Stock would like 
to see either Cusack, James, or Ric· 
herson prove themselves capable of 
stepping in and doing the job. If 
none of the three is impressive 
enough, Stock will use a three-man 
rotation ofHoward, Miller, andJack­
son at the split end and flanker posi· 
lions. 

The tight end spot was the biggest 
question mark a year ago, but sopho· 
more Mark Bavaro answered it with 
authority -23 catches for 376 
yards and three touchdowns. A 
tough blocker, Bavaro stepped in as 
a starter in every game of 1983, and 
displayed the blocking, catching, 
and running skills necessary to get 
the job done with a flourish. His 
combined talents -accentuated by 
his tenacious style -could make 
him a match for former Irish tight 
end greats such as Dave Casper and 
Ken MacAfee. 
"He's one of the finest tight ends 
that I've ever seen in all my years of 
coaching experience," said Stock of 
Bavaro. "He's constantly working to 
improve himself. He has a very 
positive attitude. He has a tremen· 
dous desire to excel, to make both 
himself and the team the best that 
they can be. He realizes the impor­
tance of spring practice, and he 
shows it in his performance." 
Building up depth is the main con­
cern at the tight end position. Last 
year's back-up, Brian Behmer, has 
moved to outside linebacker, so 
several players will be competing 
for playing time behind Bavaro. Two 
lettermen from last season are the 
leaders so far this spring -6-4 fresh­
man Joel Williams and 6-4 junior 
Ricky Gray. 
Also working at tight end are con· 
verted guard Joe Fazio and former 
quarterback and linebacker Todd 
Lezon. Freshman Tom Rheder, 
injured most of his rookie season, 
has been moved to nose tackle, 
where he should have a better 
chance at playing time. 
Overall, despite several players' 
transitions to other positions, the .Irish receivers corps has the frontline talent to have a productive year and the depth to keep the start­ers well-rested. 
~· *••***********' 



: Buy a 
i Observer i 
: * 

: classifieds :
*****•**•••••·***.. 

I 


Sports Briefs 
The Bengal Bouts banquet will be held tomorrow night at 6 p.m. at the Pone Express. Maps are available at the NVA office. For more information call Tom at 1728, Angelo at 3348, or Mike at 8308. -The Obseroer 
The Fellowship ofChristianAthletes will have a meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in room 20 of Hayes-Healey. All are welcome to attend. -The Obseror 
The SMC tennis teamlost yesterday to Bradley, 7-2. The only winners for Saint Mary's were Allison Pellar over Stacey Bernardi and the doubles team of Pellar and Mary Ann Heckman over Harkks and Bernardi. The team will compete in a quadrangular meet this Friday and Saturday at Western Michigan. The other teams in that meet are Toledo and Northern Illinois. -The obseroer 
The SMC track team finished fourth last night in a quadrangular meet with 21 points. St. Joe's was first with 90 points, Anderson second with 45, and Franklin third with 27. Saint Mary's had no first-or second-place finishers, but several third-place finis­hers. Mary Beth McGlothlin took third in the •;ooo meters. The relay team of Lunneen, McPartlin, Bianco, and carrey fmished third in the 4x 100 and the 800-meter medley relay. Trish McPartlin also took third in the long jump and the high jump, while Dianne Hartwig placed third in the shot put. -The Obsen,er 
The ND sailing team placed nrst last weekend at Miami of Ohio. Fine sailing by Sheila Logan and Dan Dressel in A Division, and by Ted Ganley, Chris Hussey, Judy Silva, and Gina Farabaugh in B Division Jed to the team's victory over 10 midwes­tern schools. The team will travel to regattas at Ohio State and The Naval Academy this weekend. -The Obseroer 
Wednesday, April 11, 1984 -page 12 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golf course. It's coming up this Saturday at 10 a.m. Deadline for entries is this Friday. Registration must be made in person at the NVA office, and a three-dollarfee will be charged. Trophies and T-shirts will be awarded. -The Observer 
An Irish Guard organizational meeting will take place tomorrow, April 12, at 4:30p.m. on Green Field. Many openings are available for the 1984 season. All interested candidates should at­tend and must be at least 6-foot-2. Those with questions should call 
1221. -The Obseroer 
The ND-SM C ski teamawards banquet will be held Monday, April 16. Watch for your invitation by mail. For more in­formation, call Julie Currie at 283-4434.-The Obseroer 
The Squash Clubwill be holding a meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Next year's officers will be elected at this time so attendance is recommended. -The Obseroer 
An NVAGolfReview,featuring golfpro Dick Walker, will be held on April 18 at 4 p.m. on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. This will be a refresher class on the fundamentals ofthe various golf strokes and is for golfers at all levels who are looking for a short review. The cost is one dollar and registration is through the NVA office. The number there is 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
Baseball 
continued/rom page 16 
the sixth, he got tired, and one thing just led to another. The kids started hitting the ball all over the place one right after the other. Before knew it, it was 1 5-0." 
Metzler, Clark, and Vuono each 
had three hits for the Irish, with 
Vuono leading the team with 4 RBI 
Notre Dame finished the game with 
thirteen hits, getting eleven of them 
in the last three innings. 
While the hitting may have stolen the show yesterday, hurler Watzke should not be forgotten. He had a no-hitter going into the eighth, and ended up giving up only four hits and one run. He now leads the team with a 0.85 ERA and a 3-0 record. Gallo could not be happier about Watzke's performance thus far. 
"Watzke has been a very, very pleasant surprise," commented Gal­lo. "We're more than pleased with him. He's really picked us up when we've needed it this season." 
With the win, the Irish improved to 11-10. Today, they play a doubleheader in Lansing, Mich., against the Spartans of Michagan State. Over the weekend, they wil get their flrst taste of conference play, with a total of four games against Midwestern Gty Conference foe Xavier. 
Bookstore pairings page14 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observl!r Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­




Classifieds 
ters r da . 

NOTICES  I·  LOST: GOLD NO MEN·s RING. LOST BEFORE BREAK SOMEWHERE ON CAMPUS. IT HAS A BLUE STONE WITH  FOR RENT  GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. CALL PAUL AT239-5313or 277-4851.  QUESTIONS: Who is speaking in the Library Auditorium this Sunday at 8? HINT: A Polley In  To the girl at cheerleading audttions last Sat. sitting directly across from the judges with a blue, yellow. and assorted stnped  
NO ENGRAVED ON TOP  MY NAME  Need ride to Columbus OH for Easter.  Search ofa President: a new approach to  (vertical) shirt. Call Walt (white pants. gold  
AND  YEAR  (85)  ARE  ENGRAVED  Can leave 4/19 after 10:00 AM  Rena  U.S. foreign policy.  rugby) at 8295.  ·  
INSIDE  THERE IS A LARGE REWARD  6946  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233·7009.  OFFERED FOR ITS RETURN. IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT MAY BE. PLEASE CALLJEFF o·NEILL AT 8854.  HOUSES-Furmshed 1 mile from campus 4-6 badrooms, 2 baths Call277-3461  Nead ride to CHICAGO lor Easter Can leave 4/18(PM) Cynth 6946  Vickie-Hal (Only morons use more than one Hal) Dr. Dread  Zarfa Only 2 days till the big event! See you there.  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MRS. COKER233-7009.  LOST: CitiZen watch w/gold case & black band on 4/4 inS Quad ST area. Call 7992  FOR RENT 2badrm. TURTLECREEK APT. FURNISHED at NO COST CALL SANDY or LISA 277-8497  NEED RIDE to CONNECTICUT for EAS­TER please call PAT at 8423  DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED BY THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE MON-THUR 8-11 & FRI·SAT8·  
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082  after 11  1 CALL 272-4453!!  AlneO'Malley  
Q WHERE IS THE WORST PLACE TO  Goforitl  
WE HAVE THE LOWEST AIRFARES TO EUROPE! FOR FREE COLOR BROCHURE, WRITE TO: CAMPUS TRAVEL, BOX 11387, ST. LOUIS, MO 83105. GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBII!!II!  LOST A BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE UMBRELLA WITH THE INITIALS RPM ON THE HANDLE. I REALLY NEED IT I WOULD APRECIATE IT IF YOU WOULD CHECK YOUR UMBRELLA JUST IN CASE YOU ACCIDENTLY PICKED UP MINE. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA­TION PLEASE CALL RICH AT X8731.  Need ride to CINCINNATI for EAS­TER.Can leave WEDS 4/18.Terry 6737  diamond set in 14k gold. Apprated at $1256. will sell for$400. Call Joe at1222.  HIDE MONEY FROM A EE? A IN HIS ROOMMATE'S UNDERWEAR. ATIENTION ANTOSTAL STAFF: SMOKER TO BE ANNOUNCED. MONEY FOR SHIRTS AND MUGS WILL BE TAKEN TUESDAY AND WEDNES·  C1nd1 -I hope life is picking up. and Xavter is being nice to you. I love ya hun. Cheryl Julia Paige: Congratulations on maktng the 84-85 cheerleading squad. You were fantasttc!l We all knew you could do it From one tnJured person to another love.  
Experienced typilll will do typing. Call  THANK YOU LOST: Mass. LICense. Cradit Cards. and  RIDERS NEEDED to NEWARK. NEW JERSEY: leaving South Bend Fnday April  TICKETS  DAY BETWEEN 1:00 AND 3:00 IN THE ANTOSTALOFFICE. LaFORTUNE.  Cheryl COME SEE THE SMC SOCCER TEAM  
287-5162. ViSit scen1c Gallifrey for Easter Riders needed. prefer female warnors or Time  24hr-Bank Card in blue NO holder. Very important I If found. please call Linda at 6865.  13 and returmng Monday morning. Even if you only want to go part way! cal 485· 3948 after 9 prn and ask lor Cheryl.  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL  ASKEW SUPPORTERS: We fought the good fight. We finished the race. We kept the faith! THANKS !!I  ONCE AGAIN ABUSE NO WEDNESDAY 4:30ATSMC. BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS DON T  
Lady Call Dr Who  LOST Two tan Jackets at Flanner. Names  PAYS$$. CALLJOHNAT1761.  FORGET  POTAWATOMI  ZOO  THIS  
JUNIORS,  SENIORS,  GRAD  STU.  InSide. If lound please contact Mtke or Mark at 3546.  Ride needad to Cintt/Miami U Fri 4/13 to Sun 4/15--Dave 8408  GRADUATION  tickets needed.  Please  PmSBURGH CLUB BUS SIGNUPS: THURSDAY APRIL 12, LAFORTUNE  SATURDAY CALL JOHN AT 18021F IN· TERESTED  
DENTS! Enjoy the convenience ol your own cr.dlt canda at leading depart­ment atorea, oil companlea, and banks. No coat to apply. n you are a  LOST KEYS NEAR THE ACC · RAC­QUETBALL COURTS PLEASE CALL 153 CAVANAUGH-1401  I NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE­SCRANTON-PHILA. AREA FOR EAS­TER CAN LEAVE 4/16 CALL MARK  call Sherrie at X3726. HELPI FAMILY CANT BELIEVE THAT I AM GRADUATING. need commence­ L'IL THEATRE, 7:00. ROUNDTRIP $40, ONE WAY $25. ALL INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR NEXT YEAR'S OF­FICERS CALL 7838.  $$$$$$Beat the rushll Sell your used textbook nowll Book buytng hours Mon· Thur 1-4pm only. Pandora Books 937 South Bend Ave.  
Junior, Santor or Graduate atudent,  234-2252  ment TICKETS be my saviour, Dan 277·  
you're eligible. Call toll-free fiOG.523­4804. College Credit Card Corporation,  FOUND UMBRELLA AT STEPHAN 7. CALL 3329 TO IDENTIFY.  NEED RIDE TO U OF TOLEDO FOR  6366  YO TEX. with the COWBOY HAT! Want  
"The Moat Truatad Name On Campus." TYPING -6 YRS. EXPERIENCE AT ND. MY HOME. 277-3085. WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. RESUMES. 272-8827. HELICOPTERS. Want to know why they were on campus Saturday? Catt CPT R~&man. 239-6264  LOST Between Zatvn and LIIFortune: a black claaalc Crou pen In a leather case. Reward. Please call SMc-5448. Thanks! FOUND 161N. NECKLACE. FLANNER PARTY ROOM APR 6. CALL 1076 TO IDENTIFY AND CLAIM  MSB CONCERT 4/14. CALL SMC 5097 RIDE NEEDED TO NY (WESTCHESTER. WHT PLAINS) FOR EASTER CAN LEAVE WED 4-18 DEB SMC4265 2 NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR BREAK CAN ONLY LEAVE THURS4:00 CALL SMC 5097 RIDE NEEDED TO WASH DC KATH·  NEED DESPERATELY 2 GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY. CALL CAROL 4418. NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 7781. HUGE DOMER family wants to see thetr last son graduate! DESPERATE for tix. $$ Call Paul after8pm 234-2510. Need TICKETS for GRADUATION. Call  any more CASHEWS? You know the thtng about the word GULLIBLE. it's not in the dictionary' Got any more straws? You know, I really should have beat you at backgammon. See that plant in the cor­ner? You think we can take it? Did you put ice down my back? Where did you get your SWIMSUIT! PATIENCE MY DEARIIIIIIIII UNCLE BILL WANTS YOU TO READ FOR THE SHAKESPEARE READING  Applications For ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT Are now available in the Student Govern· ment offices on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Applicants should presently be SOPHO­MORE accounting mators. AppUcations are DUE: FRIDAY, APRIL 13 AT 4 pm.  
FOOLS FOOLS ST EDWARD'S HALL PRESENTS Neol Stmon·s comedy on Fnday and Saturday mghts 1n Wahmgton Hall at 8:00 p.m. ONLY '-!o. ??Ill  LOST mo~day April 9 bet.;~.~ .\i,i;,n, and Administration Butlding silver stain­less steel watch wrth day/date and Rolex tnstgnia.REWARD call Carl at 1034  LEEN 284-4371 Riders needad for Easter Break to NYC ( or anywhere in between) Leaving Thurs. morning Call Cheryl284-4367  Joel at 1570 DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATIION TIX!Can pay$. Pleaseca11Gregat3317.  MARATHON APRIL 24-29. CALL SUSIE-3821 OR JOHN·239-7735 FOR DETAILS.  GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA GILA Party FOR GILA MEMBERS this friday 13th! You know where... (And if you don't ask  
REWRITE LOST/FOUND  FOUND: A contact lens case after 4/9 Stepan bookstore games. Call 7559 to cta1m. lost 75 or so German Club pledges. Please come tonight to Lafortune tonight and prove you exist.  Riders needad to U or I Thurs. April 19 Linda SMC 5216 Ride needed to CENTRAL MICHIGAN AREA lor Eaatar Break. Can leave Wednesday night Please call Maggie 284-5091  PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  BABY ROO was practising small ;umps in the sand. and tailing down mouse-holes and climbing out of them. . · -A.A Milne Remember: triangles and quadrilaterals can be hazardous to Cute Wednesday smiles. It is hard to smile with VICks all over your face. anyway.  someone or call 8267) PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY NEED ANOTHER ROOM MATE FOR OC NEXT YEAR? Call Matt at 1213. I really want to move OC. HELP!!!  
FOUND. A SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A  Riders neadad to Ct. for Easter call Janine  
SNOWBANK BEFORE BREAK I CANT  lost: blue wallet wrth rainbow trim. keep  284-4292  
FIGURE IT OUT, YOU TRY. HOW CAN  the senttmental pictures of my friends.  Need a placa to stay this summer? Want  
SOMEBODY  JUST  LEAVE  THEIR  JUst return my license!!!  PHOENIX  BOUND.  BUT  I  NEED  A  to sublet a 2 badroom townhouse apart­ ATTENTION  I  AM  PROUD  TO  AN­ To the guy with the wet ear  
SPARE TIRE  SITIING ON  A SNOW­ PLA::E TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL  ment 1. 2 or 3 tenants. Within walking dis­ NOUNCE  THAT  JOE  COSCIA  AND  Thanks  tons  for  the  datstes.  They  
BANK WHEN THEY HAVE TO DRIVE  FOUND  MAROON  UMBRELLA  AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR  tance  of  campus.  Semi~furnished.  ROSE  PALM  GOT ENGAGED OVER  made my day.  
HOME? II you thtnk that the dummy mtght  OUTSIDE ROOM 207 WALSH. COME  OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239­ $250/month without uttlities (negottabte)  THE WEEKEND. IF YOU ARE AS HAP­ -MP  
be you. call 7559.  AND PICK IT UP ANYTIME.  53130R 277-4851.  Call283-1479.  py AS I AM CALL HIM AT 277-7563.  
················~...•...~ ... ........:. ·:··:··::·:..· ·::·:"·.:.::.·.:  '" "''''''''''''''"'' '''" ··:·~··~··.:.."~'.:.:'& ... -* •;,;•o;•;,;:•;.;•;,:•e••._:·•:•·~··.· ""'"''':''.,:",;".OI:M''"'''''''  



\''"' • ' " "' .,. " ,. ,. " • • • • ,. ~ .. • • .. • ,.. "' .,.. • • • • • • ' • #> 'J" " ,. " ~ • " -', '"'r r ,. , 1 ~ ,r r1 r tr'" r r ~ • •. ., r r ..-r r .r"' r,. r r -r r r r, T r .-,..,. ~ r *' r •• ..-rrrrrr., ,..,. , >#"'~·~ .. -.. -. ·ol • ., • • • • 11 ~ " ~ " 
The Observer Wednesday, Aprilll, 1984-page i3 




The Observer Wednesday, April11, 1984-page 14 
the day goes to Hey Ward, Don't You Think You Were a Little Rough on
Fever 
the Beaver Last Night. Ward and his teammates wore ridiculous 

Bookstore results and pairings 
continuedfrompage 16 

Ycllt~rday'• Results Bookstore 10 Stepan 5 costumes in their game, which they
Stepan! The Dry Heavt"S ovc.-r Clean Burning Kerosene Con· 4:00-Risky Business v. KRAP 
ourselves that we might as well go lost to Oscar and theJumpingJupies.

l.:.aw School OYC'f 6 "'bite Boys Who Wam To juke vectlon Heaters by I 0 4:45 -The Macintosh & 4 Other Rad Apples v. 
Tom Slooby by 17 
Bad tU.rma over In Control hy I I 
Mit·haclj:u:kson b a f-laming ffomo ovn Uquor Box 
2 hy 10 Joe Delancy &. the: 4 Ufcguanls over Sat. Nighb Rc:'t-onancc Fever by 19 Stcpan2 Tom Whilt· & ttK' 4 Otht:r Caun.slan.tf. over Mnd Squad hy 17 Shouting H-C-Mcn (l\'Cf \l'oman,ljr:ws, a Cripple. & 
a IUou.:k by H Wc:'rc As llol A!i Andropov over Carbux.yl!t by 1-i junior Wuhha5 over l>rmcntcd t>onrmats by t; 
.i!oltcpan :\ Many Dunn &. thr Ron Cha."K'n> Over ~ Boy &outs Who Eat Brownlt'!J hy H lklfl & lhf' 4 Gupppic.':\ ovrr Think Of tht• Pos· "'ihilltic111 by 19 Thr Poi!'loun Ivy A.woard Winnc.-n over 11. Scf.:ond Men hy 12 OM:ar & lhc .lumping over Hc:"y, W.trd, Don'l You Think You Were by lO 
Stepan~ 
l:asrr Bcilvrr <.lcavt"rs over The fif(.hung Grimmi Of 
ll.t.N. hy Ill Hula tlou~u.·n ovc.-r lOth Ct'ntury Stud-a by l.\ We'd R.ouht·r 8r PI:.~ ring <lolr over Chairman Maui &. 
1111'1 (io&ngOfo\ by 14 l>m: Juhn~m·~ T· Wa:~~ over Uoobturc IU:Il by H 
Stcpan5 
1. Who llu, I Who llot"~n't over Section 4A Holes ~lu• I hy ~ Whllt' Dm:k~ Dtm't Wear Tics & An F.~klmo t1ver Tht' Tot" J;am by6 More.-Roum:c To the Ount·c.-ovc.-r Boned by 16 Stepan6 The St:rcamcn uvcr The Quh:kclll Way To the: lnd 
Round by ll Dunkin' Dubs over Glenn's Gobblt·dygook.s by 3 
Boolutorc9 '\Pool Husclcrs From New Bc.-dford . over'S Guys Who Couldn't Score . by 6 '\ Journallsb Who Know a Good L.ayoul When They SeC' 1 uver Red Tape by 3 We Came To Shoot Pool But lht: Table and Moon Juice, doublr forfeit Old Men On the.-block over l~suphagus Cunstrit·ton by 'S 
Lettuce hear from you••• 


Write: 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
CongratulatJon.s Phil & AJisa over How Arc We 
Oulngl, 23-21 
We DC' Yo Oates over Dcutschc.-'s by J I 
Milwaukee Polo Club over ROTC -Really Only Tuillon Counts by 3 Lyons II Pule Face & the South Bend Tanis over tlosc's lleroc~ by 3 
Casper Ihe Friendly Coach over TGIF by I 5 
4 Gringos & a Spit: over 3 jerks. the Philly Kid, & 
lkrhy by9 The Homewrn·ke~ over Dick~ Naugles Memorial AII·Stars by 4 
lyonsl2 
~Guy~ With Good Uands over Uunkin' Donuts by I 0 
-;Good Re;asons For a Nt·w Alt:ohol . over The l>is­dplr~ or Mr by l·i Rythm Mrthud Hahics over Win ()m· l'or<:raig·Cralg hy 14 Rou!t~au':o, Noble Savage:-, over l'lesta Hound:. by 13 
Today's Games 
Stepan I 
4:00 -Your Freudian Slip 1:-t Showing v. 5 Screams 
From the l.ofl 4:4'; -Teenage lobotomies v. Huffitlo Ridc.-rs '\:30 -Pat Ewing & 3 ()lher Guys That C~n't Add v. 
9012~ 
6: I 'l -Ovrr the Umit v. Tru11..:kt•r & tht': lbnkers Stepan 2 
4:00 -Boyle & Other Sot:ial I>isca.."iC!t v. Eager for Fame 4:4'; -St:ratl'h Twice & thc 3 Itches v. (iumby Takes Pokey l!p lhe Rear 
'l;30 -The Non·lcJeal Solution v. A Per~onal Attack On a Notrt" Dame Student 
6: I 'l -Gr-avity Is a Myth -The Earth Sucks v. The Non·Entitit"s 
Stepan3 4:00-Tom's Tool Monsters v. The Smokin' Slub-E's 4:4'S -jeSSt" jack.o;on & the Hymie Busters v. Gerry, 
l>iggcr & 3 Other Losers 'S:30 -A Woman, a Black, 2 jews & a Cripple: v. Shun On Heighl 
6: I'; -Gus & the Happy Heift":r Haters v. Dead On Arrival 
Stepan• 4:00-WIMPS v. Danh & 1hc Light Sabers 4:45-God's Own Drunks 11 v.lJSAFDemonstration 
Ha..'ikctbaU Precision 5:30-The Penn Kingsman v. Navel Unt 
6: I5-P.P. & Ihe Knads v. Red Red Wine 
Deattitudes 
5:30 ­ Knox's Knockers v. Chief 4-Foot & Tribe  
6:15 - Rockil v. Windy City Action  
Stcpan6  

4:45-';jewish Doctors In Search ofa Tip-Oifv. Eht 
~-ixelsyd 
5:30-The l.asl Hurrah''· The Modern Lovers 
6:1 o;-S Guys Who Couldn't Think of a Real .. v. The Return ofSwahili 
Stepan 7 
6: IS -Drunk Drive-rs Against Mothers v. Kennedy 
&Co. 
Bookstore9 
4:00 -4 Alcoholics & An Expert On Alcohol v. \\'here's the Queer? 
4:45 -Lube Jnh &. the Big Dummit-s v. The Captain 
Made lJs Doll '5:30 -Logan's Herot.·s v. Mary J>i & the Ui-Hards 
6:1 o; -Clevdo&nd v. Mic.:had Jackson's Flaming 
lkad~ 
Bookstore 10 
4:00 -I Oflls Uas the Clap v. Tht.· AnTostal Olym· pians 4:45-I)LL'il v. Fr. Heauchamp & 4 Other Guys Who Will Be Taking Shots .. 'S:30 -Playing Without Mt·Nabs.-. v. The Mnallm· plications 
6:15-Bungholt:s v. Your Mother Can't Wreslle Bul You Ought To See. 
lyons 11 4:00-Dirty liarclip v. Bruster & Ills Boosters 
4:45 -The llgUer We Look, rhc Heuer-We Play v. Dyspareunia (Aka Fopdi) 5:30-The Boxer Rebellion Gets Childish v. 5 Guys Who l>idn'l Have To . 
6:15-A Night On rhe Townie v. lluman Athlete & Other Guys Who Can Play 
Lyons 12 
4:00 -While Ughtning v. We NevC'r Practice Even 
Once 4:45-The Celibacy Hall5 v. Tom Veblin ...Stoned 
5:30 -F.A.Q. v. Pookie & the Nucleartype Writers 
6:1S-South Dakota Delicacies v. Faust Won't Play Marshall But We Will 

A1TENTION: SENIORS in the CoUege of Business Administration 
VOTING 
for The Senior Class Outstanding Teacher Award 
will take place in the front lobby of Hayes-Healy TUESDAY, APRIL 10 
•

and WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11 from 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM 
along with them."  The team shot a miserable 1-of-28 in  
High scorers for the game were  the losing effort.  
the Constrictors' Dave Sullivan, who  The "if at first you don't succeed"  
shot 7 -of-16 and had seven  award goes to Doc Johnson's T-wax.  
rebounds, and English, who shot 7­ Doc's team rolled ovt•r Bookstore­ 
of-40 and had five rebounds. Ron  BFD, 21-13, to break a streak of .33  
Hudson was high man for the foot- straight Bookstore and intramural  
ball coaches, shooting 6-of-23 and  basketball losses over the last four  
pulling down a game-high 20  years.  
rebounds.  Yesterday also saw the rise of the  
In other action yesterday, Joe  first controversy of Bookstore XIII.  
Delaney and the Four Lifeguards  The 4:45 game on Bookstore 9 ran  
beat Saturday Night Resonance  late, and thl' teams scheduled for tht:  
Fever, 21-2, on impressive 21-of-37  5:30 slot on that court rdused to  
shooting. Dave Szewczyk led tht:  move their game to the Stepan  
way in that game, going 2-for-8, and  courts. As a result, Moon Juice and  
teammate Mike O'Grady hit 7-of-15.  We Came to Shoot Pool but tht·  
The losers could muster only 12  Table Was in lJse were forced to for­ 
shots in the contest.  feit their game, despite the grum- 
Four Gringos and a Spic downed  bling from the crowd.  
Three Jerks, the Philly Kid, and  Bookstore action will continue  
Herby the Dentist, 21-34. Steve El- this afternoon with several good  
der hit 8-of-1 1 and John Ziehert was  games. At 4 p.m. on Stepan I, Your  
7 -of-9 to lead the Gringos to 21-of- Freudian Slip is Showing will meet  
34 shooting for the game.  Five Screams From the Loft. Last  
Tom White and the Four Other  year, the Screams wore their Chapel  
Caucasians destroyed Mod Squad,  Choir robes to play in the t?urna­ 
21-4. Steven Boie shot 8-of-1 0 for  ment. ...  
the winners, and RM. Vicenzi went  At 4:45p.m., the best bet pri>bably  
5-for-8.  is God's Own Drunks against l JSAF  
Rousseau's Noble Savages easily handled Fiesta Hounds, 21-8. Tom  Demonstration Basketball Pr&ision Dribbling Team on Stepan 4. I  
Andorfer led the Savages with 5-of-7  At 5:.30 p.m., the choice is be­ 
shooting, and the team ended up hit- tween The Last Hurrah against The  
ting 21-of-45.  Modern Lovers on Stepan 6 and  
More Bounce to the Ounce  Logan's Heroes against Mary Di and  
defeated Bored, 21-5, led by Rich  the Di-Hards on Bookstore 9.  
Michalak's 9-of-16 shooting and Pat  At 6:15 p.m., the most exciting  
O'Toole's 5-for-8 hand.  game could be Ruckit against Windy  

The award for the craziest team of 1 City Action on Stepan 5. 
NO Students May Register For SMC RELIGIOUS STUDIES COURSES On The ND Campus. 
Thurs, Aprill2 6:30 -7:30pm 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall and Mon, April16 6:30-7:30pm Memorial Library Lounge 


IMPORTANT NOTICE TO ALL STUDENTS Changes In Theology Requirements --All University Students are required to take two courses ( 6 credits) in Theology. --These requirements are met as follows: THE0100(FYS)or F d t' OfTh 1 ·B'bl' 1/H't · 1THE0 200(SOPHOMORES). OUn a IOns eo ogy. I ICa IS onca THEO 201-299 -A second course in Theology (Various topics in the Catholic doctrinal tradition treated comprehensively. See Course Listings.) Courses numbered 300 and above are Electives in Theology and no longer meet the Theology requirements Cards for check-marked courses will be available on the following schedule: Seniors Room 330 O'Shag Thurs. Apri112 Open at 7am. Juniors Room 330 O'Shag Fri. Apri113 Open at 7am. Sophomores Room 330 O'Shag Tues. April17 . 7 -8:30pm.(Note: Evening Registrataon)  

-... ~'. 

~-~~~-====--~--_---~-------1 
~~~C3L~---------------------------------------w__ ___
e_d.ne_s_d.ay•'•A•p_r_n_t_1_,1_9_8_4 P_a_g_e_1_5 

Bloom County 

OH 5ITVf.tL 7HfRE:'5 
A NIC£ YOUNG M:~W' NAM£P CANPY CAU. .. J FOR YOU. 
Mellish 
'WE'K£ BACK IJITH IT5 GfEAT THE INTERVIE~ TO BE 1/Eit, WJTJI MK.X, TilE PAUl. 
CK£A[IVE GENIUS 
I

BtHINP THE WDKLP HUNGER COALinON ... 
I 
~\~ 
Guindon 



\_ WH't PO mWJ tr, MA ..~ 
~::, \ Wl('t flO YOII At.WAY5 r> e.tiMRR.ASS Me'? NOW, MAY I HAV6 At/TTl.E Pfi./VN', Y! 
u---­




Berke Breathed 
Hf.U CAU YOO /..ATeR, /7€AR ... Hf;'S 5HAVIN& 
··~ ~ 

&Dave 

Gary Larson 


Campus ~.-,. -, 
• 
2:30 -5 p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs Bradley, Courtney Courts 

• 
4:20 p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Statisti­cal Mechanics of the Early Universe," Prof. Max Dresden, 118 NSH 

• 
5 p.m. -Lecture, "Three Novelists inn Search of Lope..." Fernando Del Paso, Lecture is in Spanish, 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

• 
6:30p.m. -Lecture, "Sexual Transformation in Buddhism: Must I Be a Man," Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by ND Women in Theology 

• 
7 p.m. -Film, "LeJour se !eve," O'Shaughnessy Loft 

• 
7 p.m. -Discussion, "Deterence and Its Moral Implications," Sacred Heart Crypt 

• 
7 p.m. -German Club Meeting, LaFortune 

• 
7, 9 and 11 p.m. -Film, "EverythingYou Always Wanted to Know About Sex," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Graduate Student Uni­on 

• 
8 p.m. -Lecture, "God's Presence in History: On Jewish Faith In Our Time," Rabbi Emil L. Fack­enheim, Library Auditorium 

• 
8 p.m. -Lecture, "Authority, Law, and Morality," Prof. Joseph Raz, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

• 
9:30p.m. -Prayer Service and Slide Show, "Disarming the Heart," Grotto, For the Peace With Justice Week 




TV Tonight 

----------~---­
-----------------------. 
Wednesday, April11, 1984-page 16 
Spring sports season now in full swing 

Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
When we last left this column, we were considering things we can do by leaving campus during the spring -such as basebalL However, many folks just don't have the time to leave campus as we wind towards the completion ofresearch papers and final exams. So what's a sports fan to do? 
Well, folks, it is a well kept secret around this campus, but there is life on the Notre Dame athletic fields after football and ba~ketball sea-;c:ms. This entity is known a~ spring sports, and, while none of Notre Dame's teams will find themselves featured in any major publications, they certainly play well enough to merit some support from the student body. Therefore. this week's column is devoted to Notre Dame's six spring sports. Bey, spring athletes! For all you do -this column's for you! 
The Esophagus Constrictors lost to Old Men on the 
Baseball Bits ... Yes, I know we talked about bao;ehall at length
Block yesterday in tournament action on Bookstore 
last week, but when your "Pick of the Week" got·s 3·1 over the 
court 9. Here. Mike Stock (28), An~v Christoff(9), and 
weekend, you like to brag about it a little. Larry Gallo's Irish current­
GenJ' Faust ( 26) look on as the Esophagus Constric· 
ly hold a I I -I 0 record entering today's twinbill with Michigan State. mainly on the strength ofgood hitting. The Irish have been knocking tht· cover off the ball, with junior David Clark pacing the offensive attack with his .395 batting average.

Esophagus Constrictors defeated 
However, the surprising aspen of this Irish squad ha~ to be the performance of the inexperienced pitching corps. The staff ap· peared to be decimated following the loss of six hurlers from last

by Old Men despite 'The Shot II' 
year's team, but timely pitching performances have helped the team 

come back to the .500 level. The most pleasant surprise of all has By PHIL WOLF ball fell through the hoop to make Cubes, and other paraphernalia of been sophomore right hander Mark Watzke, who already ha~ posted Sports Writer history. the typical "throat," and began to do a 3·0 record with an amazing 0.83 ERA. If the staffcan be consistent 
"I can't believe I made that shot warmup drills, led by Rucker. Then, and the defense can shore itselfup, the Irish could be on their way to 
All day people had been talking again," the excited English said after just before the game started, the a banner year. about "The Shot" and hoping that the game. team disappeared. A few moments Net Notes ... The hottest team on campus right now is Tom Fal· they would see a rept·at of the most "The Shot II" was not enough for later, the Constrictors returned, clad Ion's men's tennis team. The Irish netters have reeled off seven memorabk shot of last year's the Constrictors, however, as Gerry in green shirts, instead of their cus· (count 'em -seven) straight victories to raise their record to 16-6 Bookstore Basketball tournament. Faust and the other Old Men won tomary white. during the spring campaign. Mike Gibbons, in the first singles slot, In last year's matchup between the the game, 21-16. The Esophagus Constrictors and Paul Najarian, at the number-five spot, are leading the way with Esophagus Constrictors and Old Ironically, English scored the win· relied on some of their successful '16-6 records, but the doubles teams have been the strength of this Men on the Block, the egghead Con· ning basket in the game. With the plays from last year, and they also in· Irish squad. strictors held up the game to calc· score 20·16, the Esophagus Con· stituted some new plays. The Last year, the Irish struggled because of a weakness in the third ulate exactly how to make a shot strictors, who will all graduate next "Benzine Ring" proved valuable for doubles position, but that has turned around this year. Sophomore from midcourt. Mark English then month, decided that they wanted to bringing the ball up court, and the roommatesJoe Nelligan and Doug Pratt have teamed to post a 12· 3 calmly stepped back and made the bow out of the tournament in the "Carbon Carbon Double Bond" play mark in that slot, and this duo came up with the winning point in shot. first round. was good for a basket. One of the Notre Dame's 5·4 victory over Western Michigan on Monday. 
Nearly everyone present at yes· "We were going to try to let them most spectacular plays was the Unless there are any unforeseen catastrophes, it appears the Irish terday's rematch of the two teams win tonight," ·Faust admitted after· "Semi-impermeable" defense, in are well on their way to their sixth consecutive 20-win season. thought it impossible for English to ward, "but they beat us to it. They which the five players linked arms, repeat the feat, but still the fans were put the ball in the basket so we rushed at the Old Men's point guard, Chip Shots ... While the golf fans are watching the Masters on screaming for him to try. Late in the couldn't let them win." stole the ball, and scored on the five· the tube this weekend, the Irish linksters will be playing in front of game, the Constrictors obliged the English, however, denies that his on-none fast break. their usual non-existent galleries at the Kepler Invitational. It may be crowd. team threw the game. hard for Stl.\dents to get behind a team that doesn't really post a 
First, Mike Demchsak tested the "We really thought we could beat Faust said he did not mind being win-loss record, or maybe it's because you can't yell and scream wind velocity, and several books them this year," he said, "but they the straight man for the Constric· while someone is trying to sink a 12-foot putt, but the Irish linksters were consulted for important data. put in all those new coaches (Andy tors' jokes which included, among will forge on. Next, all five of the Esophagus Con· Christoff, who shot 5-of-13 and had other things, an arrest by Notre Captain Dave Moorman averaged a score of78 over the weekend, strictors fed information into their IH rebounds). We never saw the Dame Security, complete with hand· while fellow South Bend native Frank !.eyes averaged a 77 to pace TI-55 calculators, taking into ac· game films on them, so we didn't cuffs. the Irish linksters in their competition at the Purdue Invitational. count the rotation of the earth, and know how good they were. "It's a lot offun playing with those With scores like these, it will be hard to punch a hole in the balloon the fact that there was only a half "We're still the best Bookstore guys," the Irish football coach said. ofoptimism held by Irish mentor Noel O'Sullivan as he looks toward moon last night. Finally, a crucifix Basketball team there is," English "They asked if we would play with the rest ofthe sea-;c:m. was placed around English's neck, declared. "With C.). (Rucker, Con· them again this year because I guess LaCrosse-Words ... Somebody call Crimestoppers, because the and he attempted the shot. strictors coach), we could have we're one of the few teams that fact that very few people know about Rich O'Leary's team is the 
Silence fell over the crowd, as the gone all the way, but we blew it." would go along with them and let "Crime ofthe Week." Maybe it's the fact that many stu· ball bounced off the ba<:kboard and The Esophagus Constrictors came them have a good time. We're so bad dents don't feel they understand the nuances ofthe game. However, fell toward the front ofthe rim. Then out to Bookstore 9 carrying several as long as you know that the team that puts the ball in the net the pandamonium broke loose as the large books, backpacks, Rubik's see FEVER, page 14 most wins, you can enjoy this physical sport. 
Putting the ball in the net is something junior attackman Bob Trocchi ha'i been doing quite well this season. The Holy Cross resi·Watzkewins dent has 22 points on 19 goals and three assists in only six games. That kind ofscoring output has propelled the Irish to a 3·3 record going into yesterday's matchup with Mount Union, and only better 
things lay ahead for the Irish stickmen. 

Track Time ... Here's another sport without a dual record for By ERIC SCHEUERMANN up a hit up to that point, and would seventh, they increased their lead to 
Irish defeat Illinois-Chicago 
students to judge it by, and so it tends to lose in its appeal to the Sports Writer not until the eighth inning. 9·0. The inning was highlighted by 
masses. Nevertheless, this may be the glory sport of all the springMeanwhile, the Irish were being another two-run double by Vuono. 
teams, because ofits history at Notre Dame. The Notre Dame baseball team held to only two hits themselves. In the eighth, the Irish simply 
Ofcourse, the favorite events ofmost people to watch arc the foot ha~ had its share of strange games However, in t~ bottom of the buried their opponents even fur· 
races, and the Irish have plenty of folks who can move around the this sea'ion, and yesterday's game sixth, it seemed to be a different ther. They scored six runs, closing 
track in a hurry. For example, last week the Irish participated in the against Illinois-Chicago was no ex· Notre Dame team that came to bat. out their scoring at a whopping fif. 

Illinois State Invitational, bringing home first-place honors in the ception. After the Irish loaded the bases with teen. Mike Metzler had an RBI 
4x100 relay. Ifyou can find a faster foursome than james Patterson,"This game just goes to show you one out, Tom Shields walked to double, while David Clark and Greg Bell, Mitch Van Eyken and Dan Shannon on this campus, let what a crazy game baseball is," said force in the frrst run of the game. Shields each drove in a run with 

coach joe Plane know. It is probable that such a search would be an Irish Head Coach Larry Gallo. "It's Suddenly, Illinois-Chicago appeared singles. 
exercise in futility. have of these Gallo really had no way to explain
really good to one to come unglued. Pick of the Week ... Here's your best chance for a national kinds of games -we haven't had Carl Vuono doubled to drive in his team's turnaround after the fifth the University this year. Coach Sharon Petro's
championship at one for a long time." The Irish two more runs, and Mike Angelina inning. 
women's tennis team is looking for a Division II national crown, and won the nine-inning contest by a followed with a successful squeeze "First, Illinois-Chicago wasn't a 
it appears to be well on its way, with a 17·2 overall record already. score of I 5· I. However, it was not a play to make the score 4-0. Steve bad team," said Gallo. "Their pitcher 
However, the Irish will be put to the test this afternoon and tomor· typical I 5·1 blowout. Passinault closed the scoring for the baffled us for six innings, and we 
row with two big matches. Today the Irish will entertain Bradley at For five·and·a·half innings, neither inning with a two-run single. didn't do a darn thing. But then in 
3:30 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center, before taking on Northern a Notre
team scored run. Dame Now that the Irish had caught frre. Illinois tomorrow afternoon (same Bat·time, same Bat-place).pitcher Mark Watzke had not given there was no stopping them. In the see BASEBALL, page 12 







