Convention roundup pageS 

VOL XVIII, NO. 124 the im.kpcnJcnt :--IUJcnt new:--paper -.en ing ll<ltn dame and -.aint man ~ MONDAY, APRIL 9, 1984 

Mock Convention nominates Hart 
ByMARKPOTI'ER Initially there were seven hopefuls Conllet~tion Reporter for the Democratic presidential nomination; Askew, John Glenn, 
Gary Hart was fmally selected as Hart, Ernest Hollings, Jesse Jackson, the Democratic presidential George McGovern, and Mondale. nominee at the Mock Convention on Father Patrick Sullivan began the seventh ballot at 3 a.m. Saturday. Friday night's session of the conven­Walter Mondale's concession and tion with the invocation. He was subsequent endorsement of Hart af­followed by Representative Romano ter the sixth ballot set the stage for \1azzoli (D, Ky ). Mazzoli, a Notre Hart's victory one ballot later. Dame graduate told the crowd to 
The convention, held in Stepan 'get involved in politics". Center, saw a fierce political battle The campaign chairmen then develop between Reubin Askew, gave the nominating speeches for Hart, and Mondale after the other candidates dropped out of the race. see HART page 8 

Senior Buddy elections alternative to Fellow 
By DAN McCULLOUGH had any affect on the senior class." News Editor Augustine first rccieved notoriety after appearing in The Observer's 
As an alternative to today's Senior Campus Comments section. Fellow elections, Senior Buddy elec­Augustine answered a question tions will also be held in the dining about the alcohol policy with the halls and Lafortune student center. now-famous quotation, "A wet 
The Senior Buddy committee, campus is a happy campus." which was formed last week, wants Osorio stressed that he was not 

.to "present a viable alternative," pushing for Augustine as the Senior according to ·coordinator Oscar Buddy, but rather just wanted the Osorio. He added, "This year the senior class to be able to choose for seniors' right to choose our Senior themselves. "Ofcourse they are free Fellow was prostituted." to vote for him, but you arc free to 
The Senior Fellow committee last vote for whoever you want. The week decided to exclude Harold senior class is able to make its own Augustine from today's ballots be­decisions. The emphasis should be cause "he fails to meet the criteria on the freedom to decide and not on established by the committee," any particular candidate," Osorio according to Committee Otairman said. Mike James. Nominees are required to have a tie with the Notre Dame Osorio added that he expects the community; have directly affected Senior Buddy elections to put a dam­the lives of senior class members per on the Senior Fellow elections. and provided them with inspiration "It will have to redefine itself," he to reach for higher ideals; and have said, "because obviously the (Senior successfully incorporated Christian Fellow) committee sees itself as dif­values into their lives. ferent from the rest ofthe seniors." 
james said specifically Augustine james said he is not taking the doesn't meet the second require­Senior Buddy elections as a personal ment. "Besides his statement on the alcohol policy, Harry hasn't really see BUDDY page 6 



Sang Don Kim demonstrates his martial arts sociation and led by Gary Cooper; it was one (~(many abilities atyesterday'sInternationalFestival. The Tae­displays of efhnic culture presented at the Festiml. Kwan-Do exercise was sponsored by the Korean As-More on the event in the story' below. 


International Festival showcases native folk tradition and ethnic art 
By MARY HEILMANN depicted the various aspects ofan in­ment with student response to the News Staff ternational student's life at Notre festival. "Although we got double Dame. the attendance of last year, I was a 
The Notre Dame International Griffin. a junior business major little disappointed with the student Students Organization presented its from England, and de Mello, a junior turnout. We expected them to make International Festival last night to a from Kenya, described the festival as up about 30/ of the audience, but it near-capacity audience at Wash­"our gift to the Notre Dame and was mostly graduate students and ington Hall. South Bend communities. It is also older adults." 
The festival, a variety show com­our way of expressing our deepest pletely produced by international appreciation to the host families." Summarizing the experience as "a students and free to the public, was They also expressed the hope that lot offun," Griffin looked forward to under the direction ofWinston Grif­it "will mark the beginning of a next year, saying, "It was hard this fin and Louisa de Mello. greater interaction and increasing year because there was nothing to 
Twenty-four acts, representing awareness of the world beyond the build on. Most of the students in­over 35 countries, comprised the 3 boundaries ofstate and nation." volved in the show had never been hour production, showcasing native Griffin commented that the em­on stage before. We started two folk tradition and ethnic art. Among phasis of the festival has changed the more creative acts were Dirty this year. "Last year, it was mostly months ago getting individuals to­War, a surrealistic presentation of cultural activities. This year, we said gether and motivating them to per­human rights abuses in South 'Do something to make the people form. It took a week of rehearsals to America, and The Real Discovery of think or laugh.' It was basically 'Do get all the acts ready. Hopefully, America, a farcical enactment by whatever you want.' There were next year, with the experience and Latin American students of political overtones and humor that success ofone show behind us, plan­Columbus' disun-ery of the New was aimed at the student popula-ning the festival will be much easier. World. Also included in the program tion." We just hope that everybody was a documentary film which Griffin also expressed disappoint-enjoyed themselves tonight." 

The Observer Monday, April9, 1984-page 2 


In Brief 
When fraternal twinS Mary and Ronald Pyke were younger. pt_.oplc would ask which was the smarter one. The same thing happened to twins Douglass and Michael Beck. It was a tough question to answer then, and it's just as tough now. All four have won four-year National Mt·rit Scholarships. The Pykc twins attend High­land lligh St.·hool in Highland, Ind. The Becks go to Lake Forest High in Lake Forest. Ill. Although none of the twins has yet committed to any school. Mary Pyke wants to go to Georgetown and major in international business; Ronald Pyke likes Purdue'scomputer science program; Douglas~ Beck is looking at the University of lllinois for a prelaw program; and Micheal Beck favors the liniversity of Pennsyl­vania to swdy management and technology. -AP 
Walter F. Mondale promised yesterday that the Three: Mile Island nuclear plant would remain closed if he is elected president, while: Gary I tart campaigned among unemployed steel­workers and the: Rt·v. jesse Jackson said he: could not "'muzzle" sup­porters even wht·n they threaten violc:ncc:. "I have no problem disassociating mysclffrom violem:e or threats ofit," jackson said two days before: Pennsylvania's presidential primaries. But he: said at­tempts to impose rt·marks hy a supporter, Minister Louis Farrakhan, into his campagin were "'a hit unfair." In a radio speech, Farrakhan had threatened a black Washington Post reporter who disclosed that _la4.·kson had referred to Jews as "'hymies" and New York City as "hymktown.-AP 
Israeli jets Saturday bombed a building in the central l.ehanc:sc: town of Bhamdoun in retaliation to a terrorist rampage in Jerusalem. and Lebanese Moslem and Christian factions traded heavy artillery fire: in Beirut. The: target of the Israeli air strike: was·a five-story wing of an abandoned hotel in Bhamdoun, on the: Beirut­Damascus highway 14 miles southeast of the Lebanese capital. All planes rc:turnt·d safc:ly from the: dawn raid, the: Israeli command in Tc:J Aviv said. Prt·sidt•nt Amin (iemayd and Syrian President Hafez As~ad arrangnl to meet in Damascus on Wednesday to try to speed up an end to tht· t"ighting, reports from tht· Syrian capital said. A Shiite Mosk-m k-adc:r said all Militiamt·n art· bc:ing ordc:rc:d offthe streets of \\T.~t Beirut in an effort to promote: civ•l !lrtkr. -AP 
Of Interest · 
Estee Lauderfield training representative Carolyn Starry will prest·nt a sucn·ss seminar at 6:.~0 p.m. today in the parlor of the llaggar Collt·)(c: Center at Saint Mary's. The seminar, sponsored by Estcc: Lauda, is c:ntitlnl "IIow to Make: the: Most ofWhat You Have." The ~c:minar will offer tips on dressing for job intc:rvicws, make-up him~ and suggntions on huilding sc:lf-cont1dence. Starry is a former 
school tc:achc:r and professional singer and musician. During her talk. she: will offer insight~ to spl·cial problems womt'n face in ·the hu~inc~~ world. Two Saint Mary's students will model work fashions, provided hy l..S. Ayrl's and Company. during the st·minar. -The r JIJsen•e,· 
"The Partitioning oflreland"isthesuhjectof 
a lecture to IK given hy Thomas Fraser, history professor at tht· New llnivcrsity of l lister in Northern Ire:land. The lecture is at -:':~0 p.m. today in Carroll llall at Saint Mary's. Fraser is a visiting Fulbright St"holar at Indiana llniversity at South Bend. Fraser's visit is sponsored h)' Saint Mary's history department. -The Obsen,er 

Weather · . p 
.• 
Another scorcher today. Cloudy and breezy with a high of c;_~. Partly cloudy tonight with a low of~-~--The Ob­
.-.en,er 

PrrJtluction c:onsultil1li .....................Su.·ve /h-slgn Et/1/ur.... .. ........... Troy l.uyrwt Stuff... . ................ l'aul. Kathk~n Trpt•st•/lers... . ...... Michdk, Ni<:k 
The Observer 
The Observ<"r ( l ~I"-~·J9 2-·tllllll) " 
/lru/t/J•.. . .. llaruld B. 
puhli~ht·d Moth..IJ~ lhrou~h hlllay and 
Nt•li'S l:'tlilor '".................... . .... Tom 
IHI hnllll' looch.11l Salurdays, t'Xtt'pl 
(."upr l:"t/1/ur. . ................ l.iz 
durin)!. t·xam .111d \"Jt. Jllllfl pt:noll.-. The 
.\jmrts CofJJ" Editor....... .... Ed
oh,c.·rver ,.., puhlt.-.flt.'d h\ lht.• stw.lt·nl' of 
Vit'll1Joint l.tiJ'OUt. . ................... Davt: 
Ill<: l nin·r,in· ol :'\iotrt• l>amt.· .md ~.unt 
h•atur·es CufJ)' f."dltor .................... Mary
\l.tn ' <olkgt.· ~uh:-.t·rtptton' m.l\ ht: 
CtJIII'«'Illivnl.ayou/ ... ...Amy
purt.-h.J.:oo.c.·d tur szc; pt:r H'o!t ( SJ c; pt·r 
.VIJ IJ<!l' l."ditur... ... ...... l'.arl. Katy 
't·nH:~h·r) In '' rutng The Obsl•rver, 
.\.If( /Jal' J:ditrw ............JI>d)"
I' (, nox Q, :'\olrt' l>anlt'. lm.ll.tn.l t()c;-;h 
rrpist ... .. Bel,!,y
The Oh"'erver 1~ J mt·mht·r oll'he As­
.Thom 
!~todated Pres.IIJ. AJJ reprod!U:Iwn ri~hl."' 
.!rc: n·M·,·,·t·d 
llajlfJJ' Birrhdc~r Hoh I af/tiiiUilt•.' 


Senior Buddy: the alternative 
When seniors file into the dining halls today to vote for Senior Fellow, they'll notice an interesting and 
Jeff Harrington 
worthwhile option set up next to the: Senior Fellow 
Assistant News Editor 
booths -Senior Buddy elections. 
Before seniors laugh off the latest in a series of move­ments emanating from the Harold H. Augustine Inside Monday phenomenon, they might benefit from examinin~the roots of the new committee. 

Senior Buddy was formed not to honor Augustine but -Senior Buddy -emerges as the only way of rather to bestow upon seniors the freedom to choose maintaining senior integrity and senior unity. the adult figure they want to honor. The key difference Traditionally, Senior Fellow was meant to honor an between the: Senior Fellow Committee and that of adult who has directly affected the lives ofsenior class Senior Buddy is that the latter "will truly reflect the members. In the past, such worthy candidates as For· preference ofthe class of'84," according to Senior Bud­mer Director ofCampus Ministry Father John Fitzgerald dy Committee Chairman Oscar Osorio. and University Chaplain Father Rohc:rt G-iffin have 
In Senior Fellow balloting, Harold B. Augustine been selected. Unfortunately, the field of candidates received an overwhelming majority of nominations on who fulfill the committee's requirements in any given two separate occasions, but the committee discounted year is slim. the votes and, thereby, If the: SF Committee implied that seniors were believes some seniors have not "responsible" enough to made a mockery of this choose a candidate for 
year's balloting, then ~pc:r· the,111sclvc:s. haps the award itself has 
Augustine's name was become a mockery. To struck from the ballot, or pretend that thc:rt· is r>one rather was never accepted professor or priest c:6'ery as a legitimate nominee, year who has affected the since he diq not meet all of majority ofthe senior class is the qualifications es­an even greater crime tablished three: ycars ago, against integrity than any­according to Senior Fellow thing the Augustine suppor­Committee Chairman Mike ters have been accused ofby James. Specifically, James the SF Committee:. says that Augustine: does not Despite the Senior Fellow "provide: (seniors) with in­Committee's urging, seniors spiration to reach for higher have illustrated that no one ideals." in the Notre Dame com-
Ironically, after the first munity merits their united ballot, james said he would support. The: half dozen have no qualms with Augustine's selection as Senior Fel­votes inspired by other candidates arc a far cry from a low should he receive a "responsible majority vote of resounding senior class endorsement. the senior class." Apparently, the 89 votes Augustine The time for a change has arisen. garnered in the second ballot (with the ncxt highest 
If the: SF Committee believes Harold B. Augustine's 
vote-getter receiving five nominations) was not enough name should he struck from the ballot, then let the deci­of a responsible majority for the four-member commit­sion stand. tee. 
But let Harry be our Buddy -it's the least one can do james later declared Augustine was only nominated to honor a senior class mandate:. 
as a symbol ofdiscontent over the proposed changes in With the Senior Buddy system, the Fellow Commit· alcohol policy and that the Senior Fellow should not be tee has the "alternate forum" to salute Augustine tflat it a political statement ofthe senior class. supports and concerned seniors are able to hon<i-the 
Whatever the true reason is behind the committee's 
man they feel embodies their mixed emotionsfbout decision, one fact is clear: the committee will steadfast­the Notre Dame administration. As Augustine for nior ly oppose restoring AugiJstine's name to the nomina­Fellow Committee member Mark Manley p t it: tion list no matter how many seniors feel otherwise. "(Augustine's) name and his seven-word quote are a Without usurping the power of the SF Committee, symbol ofcampus frustration." seniors have few options open to them other than looking for an alternate forum for honoring the can­So everyone is happy -and we all know the meaning didate they want as Senior Fellow. The logical solution ofa happy campus. 

COUNSELINE Aservice to the NO community 239-7793 HOURS: 4·10p"' Mon-Thurs. Counseltne '·~a free. conf•dentlal telephone serv•ce that offers proless1ona11y taped materials thai cover a w•de vanP~~.~!..~.tudent concerns  
iAPE NO TilLE 1 Fnendth•P8u•ld•ng 1 Deal• no w•th Conalruct•ve Cr•t•c11m II Dealing w•lh Anger 9 Underttand•no Jealou•v ano How to Deal w•tn 11 10 How to S.y ·No· 111 Becomtng Open 10 Ot.hers '8 Dallng Stults JO An11•ety and Possible Ways 10 Cope Wllhll 32 How to Deal w•lh Lonhness l3 How 10 Handle Fears 35 Bulld•no seii·Eiteem & Conlldence 37 Rela ... ng Exert•H5 38 Copmg w•lh Stress 39 Femal~ Se11 Role-· Ch~nges and Siren 44 learnmg IO Accept Yourself 61 Wha11s Therapy & How loUse 11 83 How to Cope w11t: a Broken Rei8IIOOIIhiP 85 UntJerstand1no Guef 90 Helprng .a Fr1end 160 Early s1gns ol an Alcohol Problem 161 Aesponsrble Dec1&1ons About Or1nkrng 402 Selt-AssertrvenPSs 4JI WhaiiS DepreSSIOn 432 How to Deal wtlh Depr~sston 433 DepreSSIOn u a Lrfe Style 478 Becomtng Independent hom P,arent: <479 Deahng writ\ Alcoholic Parents 491 Surctdal Cr~sis 492 Recoonrt•ng SUICidal Potenhal mOthers 49J Hetpmg Som~ rna SUICidal CriSIS  
Counsollno Ia a c..mplelely anonymoua ..,.,ce ollered by lhe Counaelln; & Psychologlcol Services Conler. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 !Jetween 9-5 --CLIP AND SAVE-­ 

I ~----------------------------~ 
Math, Physics, Chemistry & Engineering Majors: Could you use $24,000 cash your last two years of college? 
Did you know that it is possible for you to start a career in the Nuclear Engineering field while still in college? 
If you are 
a student in good academic standing and have pleted one and physics, you may qualify for the Navy Nuclear Power Candidate Program. In addition, you could re­ceive up to $25,000 cash in your junior and senior years just for going to school. commissioning, you 
.ll
Wl receive over 
1 $24,000; and over $42,000 after four years as a commissione~ officer. We operate 70% of the reactors in America and our nucle~r trained officers are sought by other companies ... but we make it worthwhile to stay with us! 
For more information on the Navy's Nuclear Engineering program --$1000 per month salary and $24,000 bonus, call NAVY toll free 1-800-382-9782. 
Navy Ri?presentative will be on campus: April10·12, 198 .. at the Placement Of: ,ce
~~---~-~~~~·~~~~~-----~----J 

The Observer Monday, April9, 1984-page 3 
Little Sisters Weekend at SMC enjoyed by all 

ByJENNIFER BIGO'IT 
StaffReporter 
Big Sister/Little Sister Weekend at Saint Mary's was a success, accord­ing to Lauren Baumen, a chairperson for the event. "Everythingseemed to work out perfectly, and a lot of the girls I've talked to said that they had a really good time," she said. 
Baumen feels the weekend was well organized."! enjoyed being on the committee .. .I think we did a pretty good job." She said the only problem students and their sisters encountered was that not enough time was allowed for all the events, causing some to overlap. 

The most popular event. Baumen said, was rollerskating, which was open to all students. not only those who had their sisters over for the weekend. The least popular event, judging from attendance. was aerobics. "I think that the girls were too tired by then from skating all day," she concluded. 
Overall, students seemed to enjoy the weekend. "They had a lot of good activities," commented Karen Hosinski of McCandless. "My sister 
The Observer/Thorn Bradley 

and I really had a great time," added 
Karen McNamara and her South Bend Little Sister during Big Sister/ Little Sister Weekend at Saint Diane Cancro, also ofMcCandless. jennifer Gardon, 10, enjoy a game of Connect Four Mary•'s. More on the ez•ent in the story• at left. 


Window project studies injustice 
By BARBARA HARDIN 
News Staff 
"What-can we do now?" is a common question among a group of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students who have just completed a year-long focus on human rights violations in South Africa, Brazil, the Carribean, and Chile. 
Last Thursday evening the group, which is sponsored by the Justice Education Depatment, met in the Student Center parlor at Saint Mary's to discuss what ac­tion they could take to alleviate the injustices they have dis­covered. 
Such action, according to Es­mee Bellalta, chairman of Saint Mary's Justice Education Depart­ment, will be called the "Student's Window Project." 
According to Bellalta, the name was given with the intent that students will "open the window and let in some new light and hope" to those countries. 
Bellalta said that the students will invite someone from an oppressed country to the lhited States for two or three weeks. This project would "give someone another view of life," said Bellalta. She said that after experiencing a life in which his human rights are recognized, he may be able to work towards these conditions upon returning to his country. 
Also present at the meeting was economics Professor Jerry McElroy, coordinator of the Stu­dent's Window Project under Bellalta. McElroy said that a project which would give someone a good experience to take back to his country as 



Harlem 
THURSDAY, APRIL 12 7:30P.M. Notre Dame ACC 
Prices: $7 & $8.50 $2 discount for Notre Dame & St. Mary's students/ Faculty/Staff 
Tickets on sale at ACC Box Office 9a.m.-5p.m. 

CATCH THE MAGIC! 
ATIENTION: SENIORS in the College of Business Administration 
VOTING for The Senior Class Outstanding Teacher Award 
will take place in the &ont lobby of Hayes Healey TUESDAY, APRIL 10 and WEDNESDAY,·APRIL 11 &om 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM 
opposed to sending an American down to an oppressed country would be more feasible as well as more effective. He said "The people who will change the world down there will be down there." 
McElroy said,"With this project we will start on a small scale, and others will hopefully follow our example." 
Bellalta said the project would basically involve raising funds to provide an air fare for one to and from the chosen country and to"assist him while he is here on a low-key budget." She said she would like to welcome any in­terested Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student to become in­volved in organizing the project. 
The next organizational meeting will take place Tuesday, April 24 from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. the Haggar Student Center parlor. 

Mondale turns tables on Hart in Wisconsin 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. -Walter F. Mondale, reversing the results of a non-binding primary earlier in the week, trounced Sen. Gary Hart in Wisonsin's Democratic Party caucuses Saturday and captured an­other large group of national delegates. 
The former vice president, who said in Pittsburgh he was "obviously very pleased" with the victory, led Hart almost 2-to-1 in the raw vote from the caucuses. Rev. Jesse Jack­son was a distant third. 
"We had anticipated a very close contest," said Mondale, 
Although he noted that he has scored a number of victories in the past three weeks, starting with the Illinois primary, Mondale said he doubted the Wisconsin win would 

Special Rates 

Summer 



STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 



Master Mini Warehouses 
Media Studies Film and Video Studies Dept of Communication & Theatre Advising for all majors and prospective majors will be available as follows: Monday April 9th Tuesday, Apri I 1Oth Wednesday, April 11th Between the hours of 9:00-12:00 and 1:00-5:00 All majors should make appointments with their advisors during this period! Following advising, all current and new majors may pick up checkmarked cards in the departmental offices. The Loft, O'Shaughnessy 
have much impact in Pennsylvania's primary Tuesday. 
"I believe that voters jealously guard the right" to make their own choices, he said. 
In the primary, Hart got 46 per­cent ofthe vote, Mondale had 43 and Jackson I 0, but that was strictly a beauty contest. 
It was the caucuses that determined allocation of 78 of the 89 delegates Wisconsin will send to the Democratic National Conven­tion in July. 
With  I 00  percent  of the raw  
caucus  vote  counted,  the  totals  
were:  

Mondale 18,169 or 54 percent Hart 10,199 or 30 percent Jackson 5,026 or 15 percent Uncommitted 492 or 2 percent The caucuses chose delegates to 
congressional district meetings in May when national convention delegates will be chosen. 
With I 00 percent of those delegates chosen, Mondale had 58 percent, Hart 30 percent,Jackson 10 percent. 2 percent remain uncom­mitted. 
Party officials said precisely what the breakdown would be in the na­tional convention delegation, but Mondale clearly will have the largest single block. 
National party rules contemplate that the percentage of local delegates selected in the first round of caucuses will be reflected all through the process to the final makeup of the national delegation. 
That would suggest Mondale should get at least 42 delegates and Hart 23 and that they could divide the other 13. 
It was uncertain whether Jackson would get any delegates because ofa requirement that a candidate get at least I 5 percent of the votes in any one caucus district to win representation to the subsequent level. 
It is because of a 5 percent dif­ference in the threshold require­ment for winning preliminary delegates at the first level and the 20 percent threshold for winning delegates at the congressional dis­trict level that the final delegate count could vary slightly from the projections suggested by Saturday's vote. 
A native of neighboring Min­nesota. Mondale had powerful help from organized labor, teachers and many of the state's leading politicians, including Gov. Anthony Earl. 
Mondale's Wisconsin victory came four days after his big victory in the New York primary and only three days before the Pennsylvania primary. 
James Johnson. Mondale's cam­paign chairman, said in Washington that the.. Wisconsin vote was a "spectacular victory." 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
The Observer Monday, April9, 1984-page 4 

Preparing to deal 
Delegates file into Stepan Center before the Mock Convention, which chose Gary Hart as presidential nominee and Lindy Boggs as vice-presidential nominee. A complete roundup on the convention is on pages eight and nine. 


Macintosh delivery running late 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
StaffReporter 
Nearly S I 50,000 of student, 
faculty and staff money is earning in· 
tcrest in someone else's account be­
cause of the long wait to buy an 
Apple Macintosh computer. 
Purchasers of the computers must 
sign a contract which says they 
agree to a contract between Apple 
and Notre Dame which they are not 
allowed to see. 
The contract states, "I am buying a 
(computer name) under the terms 
of the Apple University Consortium 
Agreement in existence between 
the University of Notre Dame and 
the Apple Computer Corporation." 
The Assistant Director of Purchas· 
ing, Rick Farrell, said the contract 
would "probably not" be released 
because it, "deals with things that 
deal directly with the university and 
not the buyer." He said it, like any ol 
the university's other business 
agreements, is not released. 
"From a legal standpoint Apple 
would formally have to allow us to 
release it," he said. 
"The contract clarifies who can 
participate in the program, sets pay· 
ml·nt guidelines and deals with the 
fact that the buyer is entitled to only 
one unit on the Apple product line at 
this discount," Farrell said,"lt puts 
the responsibilities on the univer­
sity." 
According to legal sources thl· 
umtract is not dc:finitely illegaL The: 
<tgreeml·nt by the purchaser to the 
l'lllltract hetwn·n Appk ami Notre 
Dame dOl'S not directly affect thl· 
student. The point of the purchase 
agrlTment b to disallow the resale 
of the: computt·r for two years. The: 
agrl'l'lllent gin·s Notre: Dame the 
right of t1rst rdi.tsal in the event of a 
rl·sale within two years. 
"If the purchaser docs not agree: 
they don't have to purchast.· it," said 
Richard Spl'nlTr, the Assistant 
Provost for Computing, "I would 
suggest they don't buy if they feel 
li>rced. If I was upsl"l by something I 
wouldn't sign." lie explained that 
the university was trying to offer a 
service to the students, faculty and 
staff. 
Farrell explained the delay in the 
..................................--~ Roc.co's Hair · 

. Styling 
/.~· 
~ ... 
t 
531 N. Michigan St.• 
& ...~~?..~~-~~.~:.~~?.?.:.~..~ 

delivery of the computers. "Apple ber of Macintoshes ordered was did not expect such a great demand "maybe 300." Of those, 168 have for the computer," he said, "In been delivered. If a computer was March they put on a second shift at ordered today it would be "late May the plant and this month they are to early june before it arrived," he putting on a third. They will be said. working around the clock. Haley said that the money for the 
"Originally we thought the wait computers must be paid in advance would be two to three weeks," Far­because, "the university is obligated rell said. After Apple is caught up to pay Apple when they arrive. We General Micro hopes to have some must be sure people are committed Macintoshes on hand so students to buy." could conceiveably pick up a com­"The buyer can ask for a refund at puter on the day they bought it. any time," Haley said. "I really sym­
The manager ofthe General Micro pathize,"Farrell said of the long wait store, Ric Haley, said the total num-for a computer. 
A DRAMATIC NEW CONCEPT IN SUN TANNING! 
e Preserve Your Tan 
.· 'IM-H~ sun tanning sam 
2n-1o26 
J.M!S. PLAZA 

4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 

$12 CASH AMERICAN PLASMA IS NOW HERE IN 
SOUTH BEND 
Make yourself feel great, donate blood plasma Help save a life. Receive $12 cash after your first donation 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 515 Lincolnway West 
Tues, Wed, Fri ................... 8 am to 5 pm Sat ...................•.•....... 9 am to 5 pm 
Bring this ad with you for bonus Exp. date, May 31, 1984 
234-6010 ~ 
<{ 
............ .. _, .... -· ~ .
_ 
LASALLE 
(/) 
~ 
<{I 
::::i 
....J 


~-~-WE-ARE~H ERE · 

Seeds of Peace Week starting at St. Mary's 
extend  it  outward  to  people  on  
more ofa communit y level."  
Today,  there  will  be  an  

"Extension of Peace" session with Tom Reid, director of Campus Min· istry and Nancy Schoeneman, Assis· tant Director of Career Development. "Reid will discuss peace on a personal level and then talk about how it can be applied more to the community," said Mul­ligan. 
A candlelight procession will be held, rain or shine, tomorrow. The procession will begin in the Holy Cross lobby at 8:30 in the evening, and will lead throughout the St. Mary's campus. Rosary and vespers services will also be held tomorrow evening. 
Seeds of Peace will sponsor a cof­feehouse on Wednesday in the Chameleon Room at Saint Mary's from 8 to 10 in the evening. Musical entertainment will beprovided. 
There will be a variety of perfor­mers playing music ranging from folk to mellow rock. The musicians will include Mary Beth Hocks on guitar, Deanna Deery on piano and Sarah Bradley singing. Popular tunes as well as the artists' own work will be featured. 
To close the:: Seeds of Peace we::ek, a liturgy will he celebrated on Thursday evening at 8:30 at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse. 
The Christian Life Commission is sponsoring the week along with the Sophmore,Junior and Senior classes ofSaint Mary's. Saint Mary's Campus Ministry is assisting in the schedul­ing ofthe week's activities. 
The Seeds of Peace week is an ex­tension of last year's International Peace Day. The events also mark the celebration of the Catholic Bishop's letter on nuclear war published last year. "We thought it would be nice to hold the week's activities during the Lenten season," said Mulligan. 
"By having a Seeds ofPeace week, we hope to show that peace can be extended out into the world com­munity," said Claire Cronin, another coordinator for Seeds of Ftace week. "We think of this week as having a rippling effect. It first helps someone to find peace within him­self and then extend that peace to neighbors. 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 
''BRUNO~" 

THIS MONDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16" pizza with 1 topping for only $5.95 Each additional topping $1.00 extra 
Order 2--$1 offtotalprice Order 3--$2 offtotalprice 4 or more--$3 offtotalprice 
Mon -.TI:a.urs  Fri-Sat  277-4519  
4..JOPM  Unti112 am  Open Sunday  
4-10 pm 
271-4519  

One man tells another 


·n~rts 
S!cottsdaleMal!/University_Park 
291·2808 277-4835 
Downtown ... 289-5521 

Senior Formal rent fun, tailoring, fit, poise, fashion, excitement, style, confidence, enjoyment and more...at the lowest prices in town. Check us out. .. 
' 

9'o6nfJ/em-.A"~ i i ·. 't~ Tuxes $39.00 Talis $42.00 
. ......... ..--_,_
~ 



The Observer Monday, April9, 1984-page 5 
Washington Hall work continues 
By ERIK HICKEY 
News Staff 
The renovation of Washington Hall has started up again, according to Mitchell Lifton. chairman of the Department of Communication and Theatre. The work currently being done is the second phase in the renovation, the first being last sum­mer's revamping ofthe auditorium. 
Work is beingdone now in several areas of the north wing of the build­ing, including the stage and back­stage areas, second and third floor facilities, and part of the basement. Lifton said the ground floor cannot be refurnished until the University Band is in its own quarters, which he expects to happen soon. 
The entire hall is scheduled for renovation when and where work will not interfere with student use. 
New scenery and pulley systems are scheduled to be installed in the stage area, Lifton says. The top story of the Northwest wing will hold smaller rooms to be used both as classrooms and for experimental theatre. The second floor will con­tain storage space, men's and women's dressing rooms, and off­stage areas. The ground floor, which the band now occupies, will even­

tually be converted to shops for scenery, costumes, and props. 
These renovations were originally not scheduled to begin until after the semester ends, but Lifton · expressed pleasure that the work is beginning early. He hopes that it may now be be completed before school begins in the fall. The frrst phase of the renovations was not completed until after the beginning oflast semester. 
Lifton was unable to estimate the cost ofthe project and Physical Plant Director Donald Dedrick, who coor­dinated the financing, was un­available for comment. 

MAKE MONEY IN COLLEGE Earn $185to $475 weekly, working with MCL and Associates We have many part-time and full-time positions available in your area. We are a small, yet rapidly expanding marketing research firm based in the New York Metropolitan area. For complete details and an application, please send a stamped, self-addressed envelope to MCL and Associates, Post Office Box 579, Ithaca New York 14851  



If you're a senior and have the promise ofa $10,000 career~oriented job, do 
you know how many good reasons there are for you to apply for the 
American Express®Card? 
You guessed it. 
Lots. 

Because when you get the American Express Card now, .you can use 
it for vacation travel, restaurants, hotels, and car rentals. As well as for 
shopping for things like a new stereo or clothes. 

And if you think you need the Card now, just wait until you're working. (It's going to happen sooner than you think.) Then it will be absolutely indispensable. 
So apply today. All you need is a $10,000 job. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is even good for 12 months after you graduate. Because American Express wants to show that we not only believe in your future, but we also believe in you now. r 
Just call800~528~8000 for a Special Student Application or look for one at your college bookstore or on your campus bulletin boards. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it.sM 


Flooded out 
Rescue workers transport residents ofLincoln Park, Nj. follow­ing last weekend's storms which flooded the northern part ofthe state. Over 6,000 residents were forced from their homes and Governor Thomas H. Kean estimated the damage in the six-county area at more than S35 million, butpredicted that it would even­tually exceed the S 141 million in damage done in last week's coas­tal storms. 
Shuttle fails to rescue costly crippled satellite 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla -Space walker George Nelson failed Sunday in three daring attempts to retrieve a costly but crippled satellite for repairs in space, and officials said the shuttle crew will make one last try Monday to grab it with a robot arm. 
"Tomorrow is our day to succeed or n t ot succeed" to get the Solar Max satellite into the shuttle's cargo bay for repairs said flight director Jay Greene. 
The new plan to snare the satellite depended on efforts by engineers at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland to stabilize the satellite with commands to its computers but late Sunday afternoon, a spokes­man announced. 
'The bad news is we haven't been able to do anything ofsignificance to stop the tumbling of the spacecraft as of right now." Jim Elliott added, "the general feeling in the Payload Operations Control Center here is that things don't look too good. We are going to need a lot ofluck." 
At the time, the satellite had a min­imum oftwo hours ofbattery power left. Its electricity-producing solar panels were rendered ineffective by its tumbling. Electricity is needed to power coils around bars that act as a compass to steady the satellite. 
The Solar Max repair was the main purpose of the 11th space shuttle flight. Another part of the misson, deploying an 11-ton cylinder loaded with experiments for a 10-month stay in space, was conducted with­out a hitch Saturday. 
Greene said there will be no fur­ther space walk attempts on this flight to pull the satellite into the orbital repair shop because mission control has no confidence the dock­ng device will work better a second time. 


9" Green Screen 

Software Included: 
Easy to use Keyboard Wordstar Word Processor with numeric keypad 
Wordplus Spelling Proofreader  Parallel and  
Profitpffm Spreadsheet  Serial Interface  
Perfect Writer Word Processor  
Perfect Speller  ABSOLUTELY  
Perfect Calc Spreadsheet  UNBEATABLE  
Perfect Filer Database  
Microsoft Basic  

©Amencan ExprfM Travel Rzlaced Servaces CamPen), Inc. 198-4 
" • ' " " • .. ' .. ' • • & -... 
-..' ' . ' ~ .. ....
; 

r---------------------------------~~~~--~­
The Observer 

The Ob8erver/Thorn Bradley
Reflections on Spring 

Thefirst nice tit~}' oftheyear brought out the beau~y Saturday as temperatures climbed near 60 in the bril­of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. The liant April sunshine. Haggar College Center shimmers in Lakt• Marian on 
Buddy 
continuedfrom page 1 
attack...1 wouldn't fed insulted be­cause its Oscar's perogativc to express himself. I won't feel per­sonally insulted." He added, "With our ballot, however, I think wc made tht· correct decisions. Oscar feels it's bt"ing run incorrectly." 
If seniors do cast their ballot for Augustine in today's St·nior Fellow elt-ction the vott· will not count. It :es..-; than 'iO pcrn·nt of the seniors vote no Fdlow will bt· elected. But a vott· for Augustine will not count as a vott· at all ami will not go towards the ncces..-;ary 'iO percent. "Only valid nominees will be counted," said _lames. 
\X'hocvn is dectt·d Senior Buddy will speak at Senior Bar. He or she will also he prest·lllcd with a plaque. Osario said the committee is talking ahout sdling buttons to pay li>r the plaqut· hut ht· adtkd. "\X'e still have to work that out." 
<>sorio emphasiznl, ..The com­mittt-c is not a protest against Senior Fellow, we're just a movement to choose whoever we want. It might he seen as a protest against the Senior Fdlow committee." 
Tht· group now has "at least 20 members who will bt· working tomorrow taking the votes," a.:cord­ing to Osorio. "So far we have rect:ivt·d fantastic support. Everybody likes the idea. It's ddinitdy catching on," ht· adtkd. 

Would you like 3 credits in two weeks?! Artmajors and non-majors alike REDBUD SUMMER ART WORKSHOPS May21-June2 
Choose from: Drawing, Biology, Ceramics, and Printmaking 
For more information contact: Moreau Gallery-284-4655 
Sponsored by the St. Mary's College Art Dept. 
Applications for 
ASSISTANT TREASURER 
STUD~TGOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Must presently be a Soohomore AccountinQ major 
Ifyou have any question, stop by or c:all239-7417 and ask for AI. 
Appl'ications Due 
Friday, Aprill3 4:00PM 
Monday, April9, 1984-page 6 
Cbernenko pessimistic about U.S. relations 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW Soviet leader Konstantin U. Chernenko said in an interview published Sunday said that, despite "contacts with the American side," the superpowers remained deadlocked on arms con· trol with no sign ofa breakthrough. 
Chernenko painted a bleak picture of Soviet-American rela· tions and the threat posed by recent escalations in nuclear arms. ..The situation in the world is not improv· ing. It remains very dangerous." His statements were carried by the offi· cial Soviet news agency Tass and read over Soviet television. Soviet news media said they were answers to questions put to him by the com­munist party newt spaper Pravda and that Pravda would carry the remarks on Monday. 
Chernenko did not specify what kind of contacts he had with the United States. He and President Reagan reportedly have exchanged at least four letters since Chernenko succeeded the late Yuri V. Andropov two months ago, and Soviet and US ambassadors in Washington and Moscow have had meetings with 
senior officials in their host 
countries. 

The Soviet leader said a foreign 
policy speech Reagan delivered 
Friday at Georgetown University 
showed that the United States wa.' 
not about to change its hardline 
stance toward the Soviets. 

He blamed the llnited States for increasing world tension and criticized all aspects of II.S. deknsc policy, particularly the deployment by NATO of U.S. medium-range missiles in Western Europe. Tht· deployment and the development of more advanced stategi<.: nuclear weapons are part of an American plan ..to break one way or another the existing parity of forces," Cher· nenko said. "Our contacts with the American side also show how positive changes have taken place in the position of the United States on these cardinal questions ," Cher· nenko said. 
Chernenko dismissed his ig­norance -or deliberate distortion -under speculation in the west that his government is waiting for the outcome of U.S. presidential elections before making any changes in it's foreign policy. 
The StudentActivities Board 
PUBLICITY COMMI1TEE 
is now interviewing for: 
• assistant director 
1, 
•
committee coordinators I 

• 
Art Staff director 

•
artists Inforniation is available at the Student 


Activities Board Offices on the 2nd Floo ofLaFortune. 
"a chance to be for something instead of against" 

GARYHART 
We need your help in Indiana! 

P. Bender 
J. Jaspers 

To volunteer, call: 
232-6835 K. Grant 239-7694 283-3377 W. O'Neil 233-3014 
''A NEW GENERATION OF LEADERSHIP" 
ZAHM HALL THANX 
for a great year!! to: Jim Stem-Vice-President Rob Flynn-Social 'Commissioner Kelly Brothers-Social 'Commissioner Jack Gibbons-Secretary Terry Flynn-Treasurer Don Brown-Hall Improvements Mike Sitko-Food Sales Mike Heinie-Liturgical Bill Parente-Athletic Chuck Calderaro-Athletic Dave Delahanty-Frosh Orientation Jeff Sayre-Frosh Orientation 

~i~~~_()__i_ll___t__________________
M_on-da-y,_Ap-ril-9,_19-84--p-ag-e7 
Batman morality and a Latin American dream 
My friends often ask me why Latin American countries are so unstable, so wild? 
Sometimes when I meet new friends and they learn about my nationality, they ask me ahout foreign policy. Are the people that live south ofthe Rio Grande blind to the American cxamplt: of democracy, peace, freedom and 
Santiago O'Donnell 
Guest column 

stability? Why don't they put their act togeth­er? 
Yes, there are many "blind" Latin Americans -in Nicaragua, for example. My roomatc Jaime has a friend who lives in the suburbs of Managua. He has never seen an American, but he knows about this culture. Like all of us, he grew up watching Batman's morality on TV and swinging to rock and roll. He must have admired the huge buildings of the great American factories, with their appt:aling names and catchy TV commercials. 
·I 
Today he writes, confused. He has just come back from the mountains, where .he spent six months teaching a family of Indians to read and write. Jaime's friend lived for weeks without ·electricity, media exposure. clocks and the rest of the advantages of modern civilization. It was a sacrifice, btH he was helping his new government raise the country's literacy from 16 percent to more than 80 percent in less than a year. He knew 
from Batman that education is very important for democracy. 
When he went back to Managua he read in the papers (if he knew English he would have read it in the American papers) that his government has eliminated all restrictions to the freedom of press, and it has announced free elections to be held this year. Jaime's friend has seen too much war. Now he sees that his dream ofdemocracy is a concrete pos­sibility. 
But in the same front pages Jaime's friend reads that his country is literally surrounded by American troops. Five thousand Marines stationed in Guatemala, U.S. tanks and soldiers maneuvering around the Honduras border, 
U.S. helicopters flying into and being shot down in the Nicaraguan skies. He does not un­derstand why his country's shores are being patrolled by an entire fleet of the ll.S. Navy. 
He reads that United States (not Soviet) aid -still the main support of Nicaragua's economy -has been drastically cut. He reads that the United States has invaded Grenada in a clear violation of internaional law. Doesn't democracy include obedience to the laws sanctioned and agreed upon? 
Finally, what puzzles Jaime's friend the. most is that the llnited States Senate approves the sending of millions of dollars to support and train guerrilla movements in the north and south ofNicaragua. These groups are anti­democratic by definition and are unable to survive without American dollars and know­how. 
Do you think Jaime's friend is overreacting when he writes that the United States is the main threat to Nicaragua's democracy? Maybe it's because he is too young and has never seen an American? , 
I could ask the man's grandfather, who is old and has seen many Americans. But he's seen them only once: 50 years ago he fought next to general Sandino to repel a ll.S. Marine invasion. Yes. just like in Grenada, and the Dominican Republic and the Bay of Pigs, and so on. 
I believe that the sad truth is that the present lJ.S. government's aim is not to sup­port democracies in Latin America. but to sup­port the government that best represents "American interests." Unfortunately it is easier to extract from oligarchies and military dictatorships than from democracies. 
The instability arrives when the: support is not enough to maintain the power of autocracies and aristocracies. But many Latin Americans believe that the power of democracy will eventually prevail. Just like in Batman. 
Santiago 0 'Donnell is a sophomore in Arts & Letters at Notre Dame and is the Academic Director at the Hellen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 


P.O. BoxQ 
ofthe committee to make the decisions at this wasted each year. and donate it to charity stage of the selection process. At the time of serving malnourished countries.
Explaining "Fellow" our appointment on the committee by the A waste of ideas What about the money left over on each senior clsss officers, our responsibilities and student's account at St. Michael's Laundry? DearEditor: decision-making guidelines were assigned. Since it is not returned to the students at the 
I am responding to Larry Hau's letter of Throughout the selection process we have DearEditor: end ofevery semester, why not donate it to a April 4 to clarify and resolve the misconcep­received support for our decision-making This letter is in response to an April 5 hand­good cause instead of the University's tions in his editorial. prerogatives from the senior class officers and out distributed at the dining halls concerning megafund. 
The first misconception is the function and senior advisory council. We have applied our wasted food. More specifically, I would like to I think it is time for this University to start procedure for the senior class fellow nomina­responsibilities consistantly and conscien­address the four measures given which sup­practicing what it preaches. Give to the poor, tions. Nominations facilitate a preliminary as­tiously. posedly would cut down waste. Father Ted. sessment of senior class interest and gather a Further, Larry refers to the."real" reason, as First, "Only take what you_ can eat." Stu­Kevin G. FZynn 
pool ofnominees. did The Observer on March 30, for Harold dents do not have a choice in the amount of · Sophomore Because ofthe disturbingly small number of Augustine being taken off the ballot. He was food they are given. The dining hall workers senior participants, nominations were ex­never taken off the ballot. He did not meet all put a certain amount of food on your plate 
Experience an asset? 
tended for another day to assure legitimacy of of the qualifications, explained already, as did whether you like it or not. class interest. The reason for the extension not Michael]ackson and Larry "Bud" Mellman It is a waste of time asking them to just give DearEditor: was stated in The Observer the day before (who also received a considerable fraction of you a little this or that. Besides, with all of the Mike Brogiolil, campus campaign manager second nominations. nominations.) noise in the dining hall, they either cannot for Walter Mondale, contends that Mondalc's 
All nominations arc reviewed by the com­Additionally, nominations are not votes. hear what you say, or they just don't speak experience is his biggest asset and maintains mittee, and candidates are chosen by the Reasons for his nomination (which were English. If you point to something from be­that voters should support Mondale because foi?owing pre-_set determinants: meeting pre­expressed freely) did not substantiate him as a hind the glass to ask what it is, they go ahead of his experience in national and foreign af­seC publicized criteria; availability of valid candidate. Voters were not asked to ex­and just plop it on your plate! fairs. nominee; absence ofobjection of nominee to plain their reason for voting. Second, "Ask for small portions if you are Behind this assertion is the assumption that candidacy; integrity and purpose of award is I assure you that the decision for a 1984 not sure you will like it." How can I tell if I'm in these fields experience gives some as­maintained; number of nominations received. Senior Fellow will be determined by the going to like it ifl can't tell what it is? I'm tired surance ofcompetence and sound judgement, 
(This is not the definitive determinant. This is a entire senior class at the ballot boxes today. of eating mystery meat and two-day-old but inexperknce leads to incompetence and nomination, not a vote.) Mikejames casserole mixed with yesterday's vegetable, confusion. 
The main objection seems to be the validity Senior Fellow Committee Chairman and other award winning entrees. I would like However, the historical record does not to meet ~he guy who gets paid for renaming all support these assumptions. If experience of these things. alone could guarantee presidential success 

Third, "Ifyou absolutely cannot eat the last then John Quincy Adams, james Buchanan, cookie or donut, take it home as a midnight William McKinley. Warren G. Harding, Calvin snack." It is against dining h all policy to Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, Richard Nixon and remove food from the building. I would hate Gerald Ford should be numbered among the to get caught by the food police taking food most successful and greatest of American out of the dining hall for just doing my par( to presidents. cut down the amount of wasted food. I hope Lincoln, Theodore: Roosevelt, Woodrow this holds true for milk, sandwiches, pie and Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. ice cream! Truman, the least experienced of American 
Fourth, "If you take something and don't presidents in national and foreign affairs like it, go ahead and eat anyway (you may (before becoming president), should be num­think twice next time.)" Who's going to pay to bered among our least successful presidents. have my stomach pumped, The World Hunger The record, including the experience of Coalition? That's like telling someone to drill a both major parties, fails to vindicate hole through their hand. (Even though it Brogiol i 's assumption that there: is a neces­would by painful, maybe it would teach you to sary correlation between political experience: think twice about doing it again!) in the national arena and presidential success. 
I agree with their idea of trying to educate In fact a cynic might conclude that the Ipeople about hunger, but there areother ways rc:lationship is a reverse one: that the less ex­ito approach the problc:m positively. The periem;e -as with Lincoln, T.R. and Wilson 
Notre Dame Food Service runs every food--the greater the: distinction; the more ex­,oriented business on this campus, and makes perience -as with Buchanan, Hoover, Nixon ' quite a lucrative profit each year. Why doesn't and Ford -the less the distinction. 
the University use a very small portion of this Vincent P. DeSantis 
profit, perhaps the amount equal to the food ProfessorEmeritus ofHistory
1 



Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller . ............... Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. . .. Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ......... .... Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possibiP.. Unsigned er).itg{.~Js represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monasty•, ';i of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, ietters and the Inside Column Sports Editor............ Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor . . . . . . . . . . . Dave Grote 
Founded November 3,1966 
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 

Monday, April9, 1984-page 8
The Observer ·,. 

tiona/ Committee in New York. Between the men is Hart's wife, Lee. 
Turpen brings delegates to their feet, garners vice presidential votes 
By MIKE BRENNAN 
Conr•enlion Reporter 
"Your job is to listen, my job is to talk. If you finish your job before I finish mine, please raise your hand and let mc know." 
Dynamic and inspiring Mike Tur­pen, Attorney General ofOklahoma, entertained 21 1 delegates in Stepan Center Saturda)·. "You arc un­douhtedly the hcst and the hrightcst," he told the weary dclcgau:s, "so I gut·s.~ I'm preaching to the choir. But to learn politics and make a change, you have to gct in­volved. You can't learn to swim by taking a correspondence course." 
lk told of his personal history, how he suffcrcd from "maltuition" while attcnding Notre Damt· Law School, how ht• ran for Attorney Gt•nt·ral to bc .. a voice for law­abitiing people," on the S I OOslogan, IT'S Tl!RPEN-TIME. 
"Sure it's silly. Yt·s it's ridiculous. 

But I won!" Amid his humor, Turpen en­
Quoting Will Rogers, Turpen couraged students "to forget labels," quipped, "I am a member of no or­and make decisions issue by issue. ganized political party. I am a "Don't judge between right and left, Democrat." judge between right and wrong. 
He went on to spell-out the dif­Believe in the power of compassion ferences between Democrats and and idealism. Idealism is the belief Republicans. "If a Republican goes that good will conquer evil, right fishing and catches a big one, he will win over wrong. brings it home and puts it on the "Politics is the use of power for wall. If a Democrat goes fishing and service. I'm in it for the service. If I catchcs a big one, he brings it home ever start to like power alone, then and cats it. it's time to get out." 
"The Republicans say a woman's Repeatedly interrupted by place is in the home, we say it's laughter and standing ovations, Tur­anywhere she chooses. The pen's confidence and charisma Rcpublicans call a soup line a hand­brought the delegates to life. They out for the lazy, we recognize that had heard endless political speache~ there are hungry people who suffer the last three nights. They knew this from a lack ofopportunity. guy was special, that the best had 
"Let's face it, a conservative is a been saved for last. liberal who's been mugged. As He referred to Hubert Winston Churchill said,'if you're Humphrey's belief that, " the moral young and conservative, you have test of any government is how it no heart. And if you're old and treats those in the dawn of life, how libcral, you don't have a mind."' well it treats children. It is how well 
it takes care of those in the twilight of life, the aged. And it is how well those in the shadows are provided for -the poor, thc unemployed, thc handicapped." 
The delegates were up on their chairs for a five minute ovation, some of them chanting "V.P." The delegates placed Mike Turpen on the vice presidential ballot, in which he rccieved 30 of the 2 I I votes, second only to Lindy Boggs. 

Mock Conventio: 
Hart 
continuedfrom page 1 

The nomination speech inciting 1he greatest crowd reaction, both positive and negative, was the nomination speech for john Glenn given byJohn Sears. lie began, "I am a member of the ABA society, Anybody But Askew," and con­cluded, "don't vote for Askew." His remarks were roundly booed by the Askew supporters and wildly 
cheered by many of the other delegates. 
Ted Sorringson, a former presidential aide to President Ken­nedy who is now the National Co­Chairman ofHart's campaign. flcw in to give a speech on behalfofhis con­didatt·. He said, "thc single most im­portant task in I 9H4 is dckating Ronald Reagan." seemed restless. 
After a short reces.~ thc voting ,,arted. On the first ballot out ofS26 votes cast Askew finished first with 31 perccnt of the vote. l'ollowing him was Hart with 25 percent, Mondalc with I4 pcrcent, McGovern with I2 percent, Hol­lings with 10 percent, jackson with five pcrccnt, and Glenn with 3 per­cent. 
The first ballot saw several unex­pected candidates receive votes for the presidential nomination. Keith Sauter, the chairman of the Florida delegation, voted for David P. Bergland, a Libertarian candidate for the presidency. Sauter voted for Bergland throughout the night be­cause he feels Bergland would "provide a better direction for the country than any of the other can­didates." 
The Illinois delegation tried to cast 25 votes for Fast Eddie Vrydolyak, the Democratic Chair­man of Cook County. The votes 
were not counted because those 
delegates were not actually at thc 
convention at the time. Illinois also 
cast one vote for Tony LaRusso, the 
manager ofthe Chicago White Sox. 
The Mississippi delegation was 
the first to cast a vote for Harold B. 
Augustine for presidcnt, taking him a 
step beyond his rcfused Senior Fel­
low candidacy. Teal Salloun a Mis.-;is­
sippi ddcgatc, said, "As of now wc 
don't have any plans to to nominate 
Harold B. for president but it is pos­
sible." Augustine also received 
several votes for thc vict·­
presidential nomination on Satur­
day. 

The statc chairmen tricd to outdo 
each other in coming up with 
llumorous introduction for their 
states. Chuck Hutti, Kentucky's 
chairman, introduced his state as tht· 
one that will "always bt· on top of 
Tennessee." Tht· (hairman ofTexas, 
~>at Coneboy, became famous for his 
tremendously long introduction~. 
jackson conceded after the first round. Sonya jones, chairman of thc Jackson campaign thanked all of thc Jackson supporters, tclling them, "you have proved you have good morals by voting for jackson." Shc then endorsed Mondalc. The ~enn campaign also conceded after the first round ofballotingand endorsed Mondale. 
In the second round Askew still led in the voting with 36 percent of the 51 5 votes cast. Hart was second with 30 percent, Mondale captured third with 19 percent and McGovern and Hollings brought up the rear with 7 and 6 percent respectively. 
McGovern was the first candidate to concede after the second round of voting. Beth Sundermeyer gave the concession speech for McGovern saying, "We never thought we'd do this good, so we are proud ofhow we did." Although the 
Voting by state 
.
(Final BaUot) 

Askew  Hart  Askew  Hart  
Alabama  7  0  Montana 0  3  
Alaska  2  0  Nebraska 2  21  
Arizona  I  0  Nevada 0  0  
Arkansas  5  I  New Hampshire I  J  
California  6  23  New Jersey 2  7  
Colorado  3  3  New Mexico 0  7  
Connecticut  6  3  New York 2  10  
Delaware  0  I  North Carolina 6  3  
District of Columbia  0  2  North Dakota 3  0  
Florida  10  3  Ohio 10  II  
Georgia  2  2  Oklahoma 4  3  
Hawaii  0  0  Oregon 0  9  
Idaho  0  2  Pennsylvania 9  8  
Illinois  2  12  Rhode Island 1  3  
Indiana  0  8  South Carolina 6  0  
Iowa  2  5  South Dakota 0  3  
Kansas  2  1  Tennessee 0  2  
Kentucky  4  6  Texas I  5  
Louisiana  0  8  Utah 0  1  
Maine  1  i  Vermont 1  2  
Maryland  1  7  Virginia 1  4  
Massachusetts  1  5  Washington 0  6  
Michigan  6  5  West Virginia 1  5  
Minnesota  2  6  Wisconsin 3  7  
Mississippi  2  2  Wyoming 0  0  
Missouri  1  4  American Samoa 1  2  

Voting results by ballot 
Hart Askew Mondale McGovern Hollings Jackson Glenn 1st Ballot 130 161 76 63 53 26 18 2nd Ballot 157 185 96 37 34 3rd Ballot 178 183 132 4th Ballot 172 135 118 ­5th Ballot 169 123 118 ­6th Ballot 180 110 94 
Three /ou•a df.'legates demrmstrate their stclfe pridie at Fridl~}'·s 1 7th Ballot 223 119 session of tbe Mock Conr•ention. 
The Observer Monday, April9, 1984-page 9 
nominates Hart, Boggs 
McGovern campaign did not en-vice-presidency and neither ofthem Mondale and Hart campaigns that if dorse a candidate, Sundermeyer would either." Mondale was to concede he would said, "We have one hope, that no one In the fifth ballot, out of 412 votes concede to Hart. However, Brogioli out there who voted for McGovern cast Hart received 30 percent, As­said, "There was no such agreement, will now vote for Askew." kew received 30 percent, and I didn't endorse Hart because we 
joe Malvezzi, campaign chairman Mondale received 29 percent. After like Hart but because he is a for Hollings, conceded after the that ballot, McAvoy said, "We're not legitimate candidate." second round. He said, "I feel I've going to concede or support either Brogioli said, "Askew isn't a won, I stayed in two ballots more one ofthe other candidates, we're in legitimate candidate because he than everyone thought 1 could do." the whole way." By this time the dropped out of the national race al­He endorsed Mondale saying, "I supporters of each candidate had ready and because his support is throw my total support and endorse-gathered in groups and were chant­based on on one issue." ment behind Mondalc." He said he ing for their candidate. There was a move to have the final did not support Askew because he and seventh vote be a voice vote, believed support for Askew "is more Before a count was taken for the however the motion had to be taken for his abortion stand than for any of sixth ballot there was a dispute as to to a chair vote, which is when all of his other stands." whether some of the states were those in favor ofthe motion stand on 
reporting votes for delegates who chairs to be counted. The motion 
By the third round ofballoting As­had left the convention. O'Leary in­was voted down. kew's support was slipping, yet he structed everyone to sit with their Before the final ballot MeA voy still held on to the lead with 37 per­state's delegation, and officials was considering telling his delegates cent of the votes cast. Hart was a counted each state's delegates. not to vote, thus preventing a close second garnering 36 percent. 
The sixth ballot saw Hart increase quorum and forcing the voting to be while Mondale received 27 percent his lead to 47 percent of the vote, continued Saturday morning. of the votes. Askew pulled in 28 percent of the However McAvoy learned that Ken­
Many delegates left after this vote, and 24 percent of the vote tucky and Tennessee were probably round, and political wheeling and went to Mondale. One percent 
going to vote in block for Askew so dealing on the floor became intense. abstained. he decided to go for the vote. He In the fourth ballot 427 votes The state of Oregon voted as a said, "I think we made our point were cast and Hart took the lead for block for Hart on the sixth ballot. 
here, we are not going to walk out of the first time. He received 40 per­State Chairman Tim Gianotti told 
here, we are going out of here with cent of the vote while Askew was the convention, "Oregon, realizing our heads held high." supflorted by 32 percent of the that the nature and purpose of any Hart gathered 63 percent and the
delegates present. Mondale got 27 convention is comprise, sets the 
win on the seventh ballot while 33
percent of the vote. precedent with a nine vote block for percent of the delegates supported
After the fourth ballot there was Gary Hart." 
Askew. New York cast one vote for
some discussion beween Tom Mondale conceded after the sixth "the first non-violent revolutionary,
O'Leary and the chairmen of the As­ballot. Mike Brogiol~ Mondale's 
Jesus Christ." Ohio gave one vote for
kew, Hart and Mondale campaigns as campaign chairman, said in his con­
Opus the Penguin. American Samoa
to whether there were enough cession speech, "We lost here but 
gave one vote to "that stiff in the
delegates to have a quorum. It was we'll win in San Francisco, we still Kremilin, Constatine Chernenko,"
decided to continue the convention. believe Mondale is the best 
as it had for the past several rounds.
According to Bill Healy, a Mock Con­Democratic presidential candidate." 
In his victory speech Pelligrino

vention Executive Committee mem­He told his supporters "don't vote said, "I thank all of you that sup­
ber, only the chairman can decide to for Askew" and endorsed Hart. He 
ported Hart and I hope you all
adjourn the convention. ended saying, "we have to beat learned more about Gary Hart."
Many rumors about possible Reagan in November, that is what is After the convention several
coalitions flew after the fourth bal­important." 
delegates commented that the inclu­
lot. Dave MeA voy said, "I was willing There had been rumors on the 
sion of Askew in the convention
to deal with either Hart or l'vk>ndale floor of the convention that there ByJOHN McGREEVY political party of their choice to 
made it much more interesting.
but I was not going to accept the was an agreement between the Convention Reporter represent those people who were left out ofthe governmental process. In the closing Saturday afternoon The balloting for vice president
tv~ock Convention was real success 
session the Mock Convention began immediately after Turpen's nominated Louisiana congres­speech. After endorsements by swoman Lindy Boggs as the vice Mock Convention chairman Tom
from this delegate's perspective 
presidential candidate on the ticket O'Leary and Askew campaign 
Democratic National Convention who organized and ran the conven­headed Sen. Gary Hart. Boggs easily Manager Dave McAvoy, Boggs By MARGARET McCABE Chairman Carles Manatt's unmis­tion, success can be found in that the captured the-nomination on the first defeated Turpen, Jesse Jackson, Convention Reporter takably anti-Republican theme to entire event ran (or appeared to I ballot, winning 67 percent of the George McGovern and Moriss Udall 
Oklahoma Attorney General Mic­run) smoothly. For Notre Dame's vote. on the first ballot. 
Don't let the word mock fool you. hael Turpen's more subtle yet Hart campaigners and women's Boggs, considered a potential vice Boggs received 141 votes, Turpen Last week's 1984 Notre Dame Mock dynamically delivered message: Stay movement supporters, success was presidential choice by many 30,Jackson 26, Udall14. Convention was far from make­involved in politics and affiliate with found in the nomination ofHart for a prominent Democrats, spoke to the After the first ballot, spokesmen believe. As a delegate in the conven­the party that meets the needs of all presidential candidate and Repre­convention late Thursday night. for the other vice presidential can­tion, I learned first hand just how ofsociety. · sentative Undy Boggs as the first The biggest surprise of the vice didates conceded the race to Boggs real many aspects of this· Notre Some speakers offered basic food female vice presidential candidate. presidential balloting was the and asked for Democratic unity in Dame tradition are. for thought to be used in making But perhaps the most noteworthy second place finish of Oklahoma At­the general election. 
From the debate in Hayes-Healy decisions. Others demonstrated success is that most participants will torney General Michael Turpen. Boggs also defeated a number of on Tuesday night to the nomination grade-A politicking by humoring be first-time presidential voters this Turpen encouraged the delegates to lesser known candiidates including of a vice presidential candidate on and at times exciting the crowd to November and for many, the Mock remember the "tlealism, courage Gumby and fukey, Larry "Bud" Mel­Saturday, the Convention events standing ovations, cheers and ::::onvention was a perfect introduc­and compassion" of the Democratic man, the ever present Harold were both fun and a learning ex­chants. Slights made against the tion to real politics. party. Augustine and David P. Bergland. perience that unfortunately won't Republican party were often met take place again for four years. Most with hissing mixed with applause, an importantly, the convention gave indication that Republicans and the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­Reagan supporters were not absent 
... 
Former Kennedy aide backs Hart 
munity an opportunity to make a from the proceedings. political statement. Debating issues and constucting a 
and chose Gary Hart as the tr next loyalist Sorenson lauded the efforts Red, white and blue banners, bal­platform forced many to consider leader. his "The 
By PETER CIOTTA 
of candidate. criticism
Convention Reporter
loons and streamers, state signs, issues easily forgotten within the 
Throughout his address , Soren­levied against Gary Hart is that he is a campaign buttons and stickers were Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­son detailed the acomplishments of man running on style, charisma and
Stating "the single most important

just a few ofthe physical aspects that munity such as ERA, death penalty, 
task for this country is the defeat of the Kennedy Administration equat­no experience," he said, "Gary Hart 
gave Stepan Center an authentic and budget policies. The tone of the ing the prominent issues ofthat cam­has the judgement and a free mind to
Ronald Reagan," Theodore Soren­
convention flair. debate reflected the participants' paign to those oftoday. "UnderJohn address today's problems."
son, former Senatorial aide to John 
Just as genuine were the attitudes awareness of the importance of the Kennedy, the United States had a Criticizing Ronald Reagan Soren­
Kennedy, challenged delegates of
of everyone involved. Participants issues at hand. Some used the oppor­government which our
Notre Dame's Mock Convention fulfilled son told delegates "We now have in were attracted to the convention for tunity to voice opinions, while 
country as a liason of hope to the
Friday night in the Stepan Center to the White House the great com­many reasons. Some were govern­others sat back and listened, rest ofthe world," he said. "Lately, it municator; he has the bombed the
"open the democratic party to fresh ment or political science majors developing stances on issues other 
has seemed that we have lost our homeless of Lebanon in the name of seeking some "hands-on" political than impending "dry" or "21 way." he has militarized ideas and visions" and nominate 
Colorado Senator Gary Hart for peacekeeping; experience. Others wished to in­campus" rules. 
Sorenson expressed a grave con­Honduras; he has neglected the
president.crease their political awareness, Democratic candidates also came Sorenson, who has been cern over the escalating nuclear poor; the public opinion polls and 
presidential under the scrutiny of the delegates.

especially with elec­arms race saying he feared nuclear the exit polls show one candidate
described by Kennedy as histions coming up in November. Discussion of platforms and confrontation will be unavoidable if
"intellectual bloodbank," is current­can beat Reagan: Gary Hart!" 
Underlying these reasons was speeches by the representitive can­co-chairman the arms race is not brought under Sorenson continued his challenge
ly national of Hart's
didates gave everyone an oppor­

everyone's desire to meet people, control during the next four years. to Hart opposition with an account
election committee.
make friends and have a good time. tunity to closely evaluate the Sorenson, who first visited Notre On the economic front, Sorenson of his and his candidate's record on While the convention was the contenders for nomination. The fact Dame in 1956 with then-Senator said the "skyrocketing deficit" must central issues. "In 1968, when I was scene of many controversial and that Reuben Askew placed second in 
be brought under control to prevent
Kennedy, told delegates members of a delegate to the democratic con­the nominations proves all can­
sometimes heated debates, the the 1960 Mock Convention were the country from falling into vention speaking out against our in­quality of the guest speakers to the didates received equal footing and economic decline. "If we cannot
the first in the country to nominate volvement in Vietnam, Reagan convention was undebateable. From delegates' opinions, for the most revitilize industry to compete with supported Vietnam."
his candidate. 
our own president, Father Theodore part, were not influenced by recent Japanese competition by revamping
Expressing his fear for the future Besides serving as Senatorial aide 
Hesburgh, to Walter Mondale's son primary results. American technology," he added,
of the United States, Sorenson chal­and speech writer forJohn Kennedy,
William, all speakers had a special The convention was successful on "we are headed for permanent in­
lenged 1984 delegates to "answer Sorenson also was a special counsel mes~e to deliver to the delegates. many levels. New friends were dustrial decline."
the call of the role at this historic to Lyndon Johnson and is a noted 
The~ messages ranged from definitely a plus for all. For those True to his current role as a Hart
Mock Convention of Notre Dame" author. 

The Observer/Thorn Bradley 
Tom O'Leary, convention chairman, adresses tbe delegates during Friday nigbfs presidential nominations. 
First ballot selects vice presidential nominee 
Showcase 

Monday, April 9, 1984 -page it 0 
The unseen power of ads 
by Chris Fraser 
features columnist 
I 
used to wonder about the p_owerofadvertising. I _was never quite sure that all those commerCials. billboards. rnagaztne and ncwspapt·r ads really altered the buying preferences ofthe American public. 
Maybe I was skeptical because I never seemed to be buying the stuffthey were St:lling, even on the commercials I liked. For instance, 
• 1nt•vt·r boughtA/ka-Seftzer despite their entertaining ad campaigns in the 70's. (Remember "That's a spicy meatbalL" and "I can't belieye 1att: the whole thing?") I still don't drink Miller Lite although I love John Madden. Rodney Dangt·rficld and the all the rest of their pals. And despite all the Federal Express fast-talking, I still use the {l.S. Postal Service. 
Maybe. I thought, there arc some uneducated, gullible folks who fall into the traps ofadvertisers, hut surely as a supposedly· imdligent middle-class student, I was above all that. 
I di.o;covt:rcd I was wrong. 
It began when 1was horne over spring break My mother offered to pi<:k up some toiletries for me while she was at the store. I requested shampoo, razorblades and deodorant. Mother asked if I desired any particular brands ofsaid items, to which I naturally res .ponded "No, they're all the same, so buy what's cheapest." I was not about to be influenced by any flashy ad campaigns. 
Upon her return, sht· presented me with shampoo and razorblades that were generic but quite adequate. The deodorant, on the other hand, was a well-known national brand that happened to be on sale. One would think I would have been pleased with this. After all, here I was getting a widely advertised item for the same price as the drug store's own modestly packaged product. It should have been a moral victory since, at the low sale price, I wasn't paying for the advertising budget. 
The problem was, the deodorant brand was Secret. 
Now you've seen the ads for Secret. The slogan goes, "Strong enough for a man ...but made for a woman." Their commercials show a manly husband complaining that his family doesn't need two deodorants and that if Secret is so good he will use it as welL The wife, however, insists that Secret is for women only. The man claims he doesn't cvt:n mind the flowery smell but his wife will not let him usc her Secret. 
The aura around Secret is established. Women should want this product because it is especially designed for them. It is a product that brings a· woman into the mysterious and personal world of femininity: a world to which a woman can retreat; a world where men are expressly forbidden. Secret's pitch is summed up in its namt·. lt is a secret to which only women :~re privy and they must buy this deodorant to get in on it 
Anyway, this is what I was up against when my mother handed me the delicately decorated package of this particular deodorant. Ac­tually, I thought she was joking. "This stuff's for women," I told her. "Haven't you seen the commercials?" 
"You don't really believe that nonsense, do you?" she asked in­credulously. 
l was in a hind here. I prided myselfon the fact that I was un­swayed by advertisers' ploys, that I ignored insignificant and artificial labelS: But somehow this was different. 
r turned to the other male members in my family for help. Men would understand what I was talking about. My brother came to my aid. 
"Secret is for women," he declared. "It's supposed to combine with their different body chemistry or something. Why else would tht.·y say men can't usc it?" 
"It's; II the same," my mother insisted. "They just want women to 
think they need a special brand." !looked to my father. "I think it really is for women," he said, opening the container. 
"Just smell it." 
. My mother still wouldn't yield. It was time to take a stand. "I don't l·an· if it's the same or not. That stuff's for girls and I'm not 
using it1" 
So I went out and got my own deodorant. But I knew I'd been defeated. I knew I'd fallen.prey to the intluences ofcommercialism. No longer n>uld I claim to be above the scrambling masses demand­ing their namt· brands. 
But at least l was a man and l went ahead and spent the extra SO cents ti>r Brut deodorant, just to make sure. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
.;; 
.. 
\t 

____________;;..;,______________________...... 
'" •• • 
• 
//1.,· Getinto •
• 
. 

J · the spotlight! • •• •
•
The Features Department of The Obser­

• 
ver is looking for writers interested in art, •
•
theatre or movies. See the Features Editor 

•
for more information an~ see your name • up in lights-well, in print anyway. •
•
• 
Records· 

The Pretenders have a leader but lack a direction 
by Alex Szilvas 
features staffwriter 

T
he latest effort by The Preten­
ders testifies to the emergence 
ofChrissie Hynde as the group's un­
disputed leader. 

Serving as the visual focus ofthe 
band since their debut album in 

1980, Hynde asserts herself as the 
conceptual leader as well on 

Learning To Crawl. Nine of the ten 
cuts on the LP were penned ex­
clusively by Hyndc. 

The resulting songs are reflective, 
as in previous Pretenders' material, 
but strikingly more personal. 

While her sassy criticisms are not 
as prevalent in this album as in the 
first two Pretender's LPs, Hynde 

makes a characteristic social com­
mcn~ary in "Middle of the Road"; 
From the middle ofthe road you see the darndest things ... There's corrugated tin shacks full ofkids and I don't mean a Hampstead nursery. 
But when you own a chunk numerous unrelated topics: her gets colder day by day. 
ofthe bloody third world societal concerns; her relationship /miss you. 
the babiesjust come with the Kinks' leader Ray Davies; What group is this, anyway? 
with the scenery. and the deaths oforiginal group The big question is where will 
In case one hasn't gotten her members james Honeyman-Scutt The Pretenders go from here? The message by this time, Chrissie gets a and Peter Farndon. strength of"Middle ofthe Road", little more explicit in "Show Me": This variety ofinfluences "Back on the O!ain Gang" and 
Show me the meaning provides tremendous diversity in "Show Me" -with their clean ofthe word "love" . .. the material making it impossible to sound reminiscent ofpop-ought Welcome to the human race­develop and then maintain a mood to make this record a big muncy­with its wars, for the duration of the record. maker. 
disease and brutality. Take the album's first side. These tracks seem to have been 
With the exception ofthese two Dominated by the more punchy and written with the intent ofobtaining 
cuts, however, the album lacks any critical tracks, it is bisected by radio airplay. Even the album cover 
coherent theme. "Watching the Clothes" -the set· seems to have been designed to en­
This is not to say that it doesn't ting for which is (you guessed it) a hance sales with its "British inva­
have its brighter moments. "Time laundromat. Perhaps Chrissie is sion" appearance. This formula may 
the Avenger" is a catchy tune in showing a domestic streak after aiL have worked this time, but The · 
which Hynde's vocals shine above The second side contains Pretenders better reexamine where 
the sparse instrumentation. "My "Thumbelina," a tune with a country they're heading before releasing 
City Was Gone" contains a beckon­sound more characteristic of their next album; otherwise, they 
ing bass line and some s~~isfying anybody than The Pretenders; "Thin may be "has-beens" before learning 
guitar licks with a blues flavor. "Back Line Between Love and Hate" which to walk. 
on the Chain Gang" is a melodic slows the pace markedly while in­
Author's note: also participating in 
number which makes for enjoyable troducing piano and male vocals to 
this review were Matt Black, Dave 
listening (ifyou can tolerate The accompany Hynde; and "2000 
Sundry and David Sar/Jhie.

Pretenders doing a "pop" song). Miles" in which Chrissie bemoans: 
The album essentially fails to hold He's gone. 2000 miles· The album for this review was 
the individual tracks together. ifs very far. provided by Music/and in Univer­
Hyndc's writing is in response to The sun isfalling down sity Park mall. 
A blend of classic ballet and comic trickery 

Special to The Observer 
T
his week the Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's Dance 

Theatre will present their first com­
edy ever-"La Fille Mal Gardee." 
Literally "The Unchaperoned 

Daughter," the ballet tells the story 
ofan exciting romance between 

Lisette (played byJennifer Ferrick), 
a young maiden, and Colin, 
(Christopher Smith), a poor hut 
handsome farmer. The comedy 

revolves around the young lovers' 
attempt to outwit Lisette's mother, 
the frightening Widow Simone. The 
ballet races forth with the hysterical 
antics of the scheming widow 
making a lively contrast to the 

lovers' undauntable effort to marry. 
The cast includes over twenty stu· 
dents as farmers and harvesters 

whose efforts support simple farm 
living and young love. 

Choreographer Dehra S. Stahl has 
adapted the original ballet to a small 
Indiana farming community in the 
IH:W's. 
,·he ballet will be shown 

T; .ursda~ through Saturday at 8 p.m. 
.l!1d Sumt.n-at 2:~0 p.m. in 

()'f.aughl i1; Auditorium. Tickets, at 
S.~ "iO, can he rest'rved by calling ~·~2tH--i626. ­
:-~...,.-... •PiJ .-,;---z 


'52''( 

Showcase Monday, April9, 1984-page 11 
International students present talent and a ntessage 

L
ast night in Washington Hall the International Student Or­ganization exhibited the variety of talent its members are gifted with at its "new" festival. 
Comprised of23 acts, the show represented some 35 different countries. Performances ranged from folklore, songs, and dancing to national comedy, poetry, and politi­cal awareness statements. 
The highlight ofthe first half ofthe show was a documentary film produced by Daniel Moran. The 10 minute film provided many insights into the organization itself. Along with ISO activities like soccergames and happy hours, the film brought out the significant role the host families in the South Bend com­munity play in the lives ofinterna­tional students. The ftlm emphasized that the guidance and love provided by these families is an important aspect in adjusting to American life. 
That ever-unreliable alarnt clock 
by Lisa Marie Visingardi 
features staff writer 
by Paul Aiello 
features columnist 

C
ontrary to what many parents and enthusiatic alums 
think, life at Notre Dame is not a bag fllled with all 

positive experiences. As a matter offact, college life has 
introduced many ofus to some ofthe harshest and most 
agonizing realities oflife. For example, a majority ofus 
have had to come to grips with important decisions 
about relationships or what one will do in his and/or 
her life. Nevertheless, for another group ofus 
(including myself), a simpler category ofdilemmas 
have arisen in which daily events, like waking up, have 
become major crises. 
Personally, I never had a big problem waking up in high school because ofa human alarm clock called my mother. Every school morning at 6:30, I could sense her presence as she would slither into my room, open a shutter, stare at me for a second, and then leave without saying a word. Within fifteen minutes, she would always return, offering a few words ofwisdom like: "isn't about time you got up?" By knowing from the tone of her voice that it was still early, I would never listen to her, and so lay still. Finally though, seven o'clock ap­proached, an obsessed woman would storm into my room. With fire in her eyes and smoke spouting from her ears, she would holler the worst ofall threats. '"Hurry up or you'll miss the bus!" Resurrected by this plea, I would bolt to the shower knowing it was the right time to start my day. 
At Notre Dame, I have unfortunately been unable to develop a system ofwaking up as efficient as the one I had at home. Maybe it is because alarm clocks are just not as effective as my mom. Sadly, they just ring, buzz or play music while lacking that certain personal touch. Granted, I must agree that alarm deviceswork for many people; however, they can be turned offand require set­ting. On the contrary, my mother needed no settingand as for turning her off ... well, my father is still trying to find a way after 2 5 years ofmarriage. 
Regardless of the reasons, I have found myselfat col­lege becoming a great experimenter in search ofthe perfect way to awake. Within my first week ofschool freshman year, I had quickly learned that conventional warfare with a mere radio alarm clock was a losing, futile battle. All too easily I could turn over, hit a button, and return to my state ofeuphoria. Similarly, the strategyofmoving the alarm clockaway to another part of the room proved useless. For the desire to sleep can overcome many obstacles, including ordinary alarm noises. 
Left facing a grave existential dilemma, I think all hope would have been lost and desperate measures taken ifit were not for my discovery ofthe 'ultimate' awakening weapon. This past summer, I came upon an old wind-up shock device that one ofmy sisters had used when she was in college. Looking at its poorcondi­tion, I had doubts as to why she ever used it. However, once I read the tab on the back of the clock which stated, "Warning, do nor use around pregnant woman or people with heart ailments," I knew a great untapped potential lay in my hands. Right up to today, I still jump a good ten feet every time I hear the 'ultimate' alarm. Its ringing is so obnoxious, so piercing, that just thinking about it gives me the chills. 
On the whole, I consider myselfone ofthe lucky ones. Unlike many ofmy classmates, I have had the good (or not so good) fortune offinding an effective waking device. Nevertheless, my personal success story does not infer that mine or anybody else's struggle to wake up can be won in the long run. For "ifsomeone wants to sleep, they're gonna sleep no matter what." 
During Catherine Lee's piano per­formance an unexpected guest decided to accompany her. Lee had to be admired for the courage to continue performing in spite of the bat that loomed over the audience's heads competing for their attention. Fortunately a brave viewer was able to capture the creature during the next act, and so saved the show from losing some fearful members ofthe audience. 
Audience participation came with the Bahamian "Marketplace Scene" act which featured the songs "Da Oh" and "Da Woman Is Smarter." As the women in the audience en­thusiastically joined in the singing, the men skeptically grinned. 
One ofthe most intriguing acts came in the second halfwhen Ivor Zwane performed a mime ofthe suffering faced by many South Africans. Zwane portrayed a prisoner in a cell, battling his 
present state ofcaptivity with reflec­
tions ofhis lost freedom in the Africa 
that once existed. 
In addition to the statements on 
international conflicts, the local 

issue ofwet versus dry campus was 
tackled in two acts, "La Grande Ar­
mee" and "The Real Discovery of 
America." The acts suggested a 
definite preference for a wet 
campus. 

The most thought-provoking act 
was presented by Winston Griffin. 
Titled "The World News," it read 

some ofthe worse news items ofthe last few years, to the background of ·"Silent Night," leaving the audience 
quiet and reflective. 
The show did not end on such a 

low note, however, for in the finale 
the entire cast and audience sang 
John Lennon's "Imagine." 

The show was given a new dimen­
sion. In addition to traditional cul­

tural, folkloric and comedy routines, 
it explored other areas, and at­

tempted to convey the message that 
one should not think only ofhow the 
world is but how it could be. 



Splash! 
Who says the Harlem Globetrotters keep confetti instead of water when they do their we/1-knoum "waterl)ucket" routine? The 'Trotters and theirfamous antics will be here this Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in the ACC. Tickets, on sale at the ACC Box Office, are 18.50 
and 17for general admission, 16.50 and 15for Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students. 
Monday, April 9, 1984 -page 12
Sports Briefs 

the bases loaded, and the game en­won four out of four, anytime you tered extra innings. win three out of four it's nice," he
Baseball 

In the top of the ninth, DePauw said. "But our schedule coming up is Stepan Center is closed for the remainder of the semes­
scored two runs. The run that would going to he tough. We've got a ter fi1r recreational purposes. The building is reserved for the Col­
prove to be the winner came in on a chance to have a really good year.
continuedfrompage 16 

hit batsman. The Irish again rallied in but we've got to play in the upcom­l'nd of April. -The Obsen1er legiate Jazz festival, advance registration, and AnTostal through the 
the bottom of the inning, but could ing games." three-run seventh inning rally. After only score one run as the inning was loading the bases, consecutive walks cut short on a line-drive out. The team ends its homestand with 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race 

to Moran, Mike Trudeau, and Dee Gallo was pleased overall with the a 2 p.m. game tomorrow againstaround campus, the Jakc:s, and the golf course. It's coming up Satur­
weekend, but pointed to a tough Illinois-Chicago, and travels to Mich­day, April 14, at 10 a.m. Deadline for entries is this Friday. Registra­
drove in the runs that tied the game schedule coming up. igan State on Wednesday for a tion must be made in person at the NVA office, and a three dollar fee 
at nine. However, Notre Dame left "Although I felt we could have doubleheadt:r. 
will he charged. Trophies and t-shirts will be awarded. -The Ob­server 
Zahm asserted North Quad superiority again, by defeating 

Bookstore pairings and results 
Morrissey I0-9 to clinch the Holy Cross Softball Tournament. Zahm defeated Dillon I 0-3 and Carroll 7-2 to reach the finals. Morrissey 

Bookstore Toum.amenl 4 Ugly Guys & Mr. july over Mk·hael jackson & the Today'• Games
defeated Holy Cross "i-4 and Flanner 6-3 before losing to Zahm. Car-

Olympic Torches by 4 Stepan 1 Friday's Resull 
3Stepan 5 4:00 -A Keg. 3 Shots & a Schcmp v. Gerry's a Nke Bookstore9 Fr. B. and the Beer lbngs over 2 Players, 2 Cripples Guy, Wh.at Docs Digger, . 
· roll blasted Flanner 12-3 to win the consolation match.-The Ob­
seroer 

Tcquila White Ughtning IV over IOK Caloric & a Lebanese by 18 4:45 -The Old & Injured v. Arnir & the Big Head~ Champs Fastbreakers by IS Barfalo Bob's Wild West Show over Zogjones & the 5:30 -5 Guys Who Have NOT Bc.-cn Withjamk. Meat Cookers by 8 v. Mike Hcinle's Best Side . 
Yesterday's Results Armed & Dangerous II over Breda Hawkeyes by 13 6: I 'S -Geronimo's Revenge v. Full House Stepan 1 Backboard Trash over Leonid, Yuri & the Polit-buro Stepan2 
The WOmen'S track team won the ND 
Invitational Saturday, defeating Saint Mary's and DePaul, avenging 

Feoz & the Miners over Four Rink Rats . by 13 Stilfsby6 4:00-Au jus v. Spurtin' Spartins 
lrWt Inquisition over No Need for Alarm by 17
their North Park loss to the Blue Demons last week. Among the out­

Oestincd To Lose By 2 over Bambi's Ridcrs by 19 4:4"5 -Polly & the Orchids v. Disorder On the: Team 136 over Yurt Andropov & Four Guys . . by 
Foo-roo the Snoo over 5 Chupava Rupa Dupas by 14 Colan 12 Talk To Me over Bonga by 9 5,30 -Bornlk v. Big Swahills 
standing performers were Rosemarie Luking, a double winner at 
I 500 meter and 3000 meter runs; Jean Luther, a triple winner at 

The Vacuum Effect over KAL Flight 007 & 269 The Man-gods over Sgt. Hulka & 4 Other Big Toes by 6:15-Fun Bunch 5 v. We're: Not Shon All Over 
Reasons . by I 0 

12 Stepom3 Naugles Memorial over StonehiU Four Plus One by Stark Naked & the ProttuAlons over Enigma by 12 4:00 -Drew lashus' Team v. Take: It To the Hole 
shot, discus, and javelin; and Karen Takacs, a first at 200 meters and a 
second at 400 meters. -The Observer 
12 

4:45 -Our Roommates Won't Play With Us v. 
Dribbling DYX over People Who Died Again by 9 White Boy'o Dl5cat1C Return of Plgbag over Good 01' Boys by I 8 Stq>on6 
5:30 -Mr. Uzard & the Asbestos CockroK15 v.
Janine Adatno had a great weekend, leading the Saint 

3 Rev. of jesse jackson . . . over S Hoosiers In TheJJJ.... over Purple Helmded Warriors o(Lovr The Mlssing Dimension in Srx Leisure ... by 14 by 15 
6:1 5 -Sweet Swishers v. Spontaneous Com : ton Wheels and t~ 4 Spokes over 4 Profs and an Under· 5 Guys That Can't Shoot ... over 3 UnsharJK"ncd
Mary's softball team to a sweep over Earlham College and St. Francis. 
Against Earlham, the Belles won 14-4 and 5-3 as Adamo went three­

graduate by 2 pcncllo ... by 16 Pete's BUnd Sisters over A W ct Girl is a Happy Girl by Step~~~4
for-three with an rbi in the victories. Lorri White contributed a two­

16 4:00-The Legion or Doom v. Shysters
rbi triple. Kathy Logsdon and Julie Keigher were the winning 

Stepan2 Schlongcn over The Was~.ed Knights by 7 4:45 -The Unctrcumsized Youth v. Duffy's Alamo 
The Sneakergatc Sneaks over The Seminar Ubc:ra­4 Guys That Would Rather Be At Quaner Beer '·50 Balloon Club Uon ..byl8 Night ... over 4 K & O.C. by I I 5:;l0 -Men Without Broads v. Party Animals
pitchers. Against St. Francis, Adamo had a single and triple for an rbi 
in the first game; and three-for-four for two rbis in the second, as the 

The DriJlen over We Can Beat You With One The RA-Holes over joe Broussard Is Not Playing On 6:1 5 -King Charles & the Sexual Cowboys v. No· 
Hand . by20 Thlo Team by 2 necked Removers ofOther . Four Guys Plus Herb over Pee Tow11shc:nd and the Jim Rabbis & the Muvclous a.c1s over 9 Soft by 15 Stepom5 
Belles won 3-0 and 6-1. Annie Day pitched a two-hitter to win the 
first game and Keigher picked up her second win ofthe weekend in 

Kids. by 10 Captain Larry & His Morley Crew over Dr. Magnet & 4:00 -Rho House v. The Unknown Factors 
the nightcap. The Belles improved their record to 10-2. Tomorrow 

kan Muscles. . over Carroll Staph Infection by 10 the Attractions by 15 4:4S -lstha Tfre U Dunab Ike? v. Los Cha.los Locaa Capc:ain Ups and the Amazing . over Duffy's Brick Throwers over 5 Honcmen by 20 5:30 -The Zero Factor v. Anyplace, Anytime
Grace travels to Saint Mary's for a 3:30p.m. game. -The Observer 

Alamoc, 22·20 6:15-Leonid Brczhncv, Yurl Andropov & Their jimmy G. & the: Spotsovcr Mr.jeffDocm't Know .. Boobtore9 Bcttcr Dead ... v. We Suck by 14 Coonan & the: Barbarians over 4 Engineers & a PLS Stepom6 
The: Yale Recipe Book ... ovcr Redwoods by 15 Who Won't Shave by II 4:00-Scka v. 1 Game & We're Out Walter's Boys & Rebel over We Got the Beefby II In The <lowd over Thr Noscmen by forfeit 4:45-Jesse jackson & the 88 Bad v. Spud & 4 Oth~r 
The ND women's tennis teamlost6-3tothe 
University of Western Michigan on Friday. Saturday, the Irish 

Now or Never over 4 Guys Who had Knce Surgery Tanmasters over Walter Mondale & 4 Other Guys Studs 
defeated the University of Western Illinois 9-0. Details will be in 

and Sperm by 9 Who Won't Win by 18 5:30 -Big Sandwich & thr Pots of Food v. A Wheel Stepan3 Macri's Deli over King Spew &: the ProCcylactic & 4 Spoke•
tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 

The I*ar Packcn over Deadly Black Gas Emanartng Throats by 16 6,15 -Bad Flnscr. Apln v. The Oristnal E(!8·SheU 
from ... by 16 WBBS On the Air Again over The BIS Daddies by 3 SkuU. Thy Kingdom Comr over NDK Why? by I 7 BoobtorelO Boobton:9 We Didn't Want to Uvc Wlthjocl over Two Ho08lers In Dire: Straits over Pcncrverent Losers by 13 400 -Hey Mer, Would Playing Alati ... v. Dr. 
& 3Guys .. by9 S Buzzards Circling RoK Kennedy over 4 Bags & a CampbcU's Cobra Crew Four Whitr Guys & an Extra ... over Sewer Rat, Spoon by 2 4:45 -It Takes Balls To Be a Eunich v. Give Us 
Irish guard organizational meeting will take place 
Thursday, April 12 at 4:30 p.m. on Green Field. Many openings are 

Tunahcad ... by 14 5 Guys Named Moe over Roman Polanski & the 13 Mucho Chocha 
"W~~·stbe Beer' ... ovrrS Hawaiians Hanging JO Year Olds by 14 5:30 -The Stvampbounders ..-. Ch.sstt by 19 Bob Barker & the Waiters ovcr Purdue Field Hockry 6:15-Weeble's Warriors v. Carmine Marro Has a 
available for 1984 season. All interested candidates should attend 
and must be at least 6'2. Questions, call 1221. -The Observer. 

Sodom & Gomorrah over Low Altitude Bomben by Team by 13 Fever 8 The ft.ldge Packers ovcr OneMo' Time by S BoobtorelO Spoofhounds 4 over Boy Crotch & be Slecpwalkrrs 4:00 -Yorba Uncia's fan Club v. Catherine the by8 Great Meets Mr. Ed 
Nasty, Nasty over Forever Hungover, 22-20 Lyons 11 4,45 -Sick Individual• v. This Tool For SMC Los Huc:vones over 4 Cigars & aSmoker, 22-20 Tim jacob & 4 Other Guys Who ... over I Ll:ke To 5:30 -We Might Not Gd Many Points v. 
Bookstore Basketball13 wm be the topic ofdis­
cussion tomorrow night at 10 p.m. on WSND-AM 64. Commissioner 

Step~~~4 'ThrowShotsofJD ... by 13 Heterosexual Pirhafla Breeden . 
Chris Soha & 4 Other Guys That Got Screwed over JJ Wehlc & His 4 Inches over DJ Scanlan & the Busi· 6:1 S-4 PlayC'rs & An Irishman v. NutmeSFrs VIII The llc5l of 3 West by 4 ness Blowoffs by 9 . LyoiUll 
Jeff Blumb will be in the studio to field questions and comments at 
239-6400 and 239-7425. Askhtm why your team didn't get a bye. ­

Sometimes You Just Got To Say ... over Lou &: 4 We Are the ltdover Ribbed & Lubricated by 8 4,00-Horscball5 v. A Black, A jew, A Cripple & 2 
Other Guys Named Mike by 13 Malaka's -5. over Elvis Costello, the Attractions&: Women BVK ovcr Gang of 5 by 14 the Glnney by 12 4:45 -Dcutrronomy 32:35 v. 4 Dinballs&. a Opg Sons orThunder VII over Another Great Yale Recipe Windy City 5 over Ir You Want To Play Ball Then 5:30-The Sclcnites v. Motown 
by 8 Bring Your Knee Pads by 20 6:1 5 -fartz v. Grlzzily Bears On Acid 
The Observer 

One jew & 4 Other Skins over joe Loner School or Lyonsl2 Lyono12 Driving by~ Newton's Fallacy over Fick Dich Arschloch by 8 4:00 -5 Seniors Who Never Played Bookstore 
The ND-SMC ski team awarcts banquet wm be held 
Monday, April 16. Watch for your invitation by mail. For more in­
SONF

Mountain Dew It All Night Long over You're All jel­The Shootist over This Is Our Best Team Yet! by 2 . 
lyfish & We Own You by 15 Doyle's Gemini over Not Ready Cor Dry Time Playcrs 4:4'5-I Cubs Fan & 4 Who Thank God They're: Not Snowbunny & His Receding Harellne over The by 14 v. Padres Fighting Horsecranks·by 7 4 jerks & a Dribbler IV over Under the Heachers '5:30-Teddy's Bears v. Grab a Sandwich lJ Vinual Unknowns over Garfield & the Lasagna WJth Seymour Butts by~ 6: IS -Armadillo '; v. We're Under '5-8 But Over 12 Lovers by 9 Academia Nuts over Future Shock by 8 Inchrs 
formation, call Julie Currie at 283-4434. -The Observer 

Classifieds 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five chara~·· ters erda . 
NOTICES 

EXPERT TYPIST 277·8534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233· 7009 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MRS COKER 233· 7009 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287~82 
PROFESSIONAL TYPIST. IBM SELECTRIC II. BUSINESS & ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE. 272-3134. 
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBIIIIIII 

Experienced typlat will do typing. Call 287-5t62. 
At1enl10n TAU BETA PI MEMBERS Voluntaers are needed to ass1st w11h Spa· c1al OlympiCS on Sat Apr t4 Only 3 hrs of your 11me IS needed lnleresled? Call Aga (3896) or Bnan ( t470) 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST A BLUE DOWN JACKET DURING LAST FRIDAY'S WALSH HALL PARTY BRAND NAME IS ASCENTE. CON· T A INS PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN THE POCKET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-3tt5 or RETURN TO tt5 HO­
LY CROSS HALL REWARD AND NO QUESTIONS ASKED I FOUND. A SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A SNOWBANK BEFORE BREAK. I CAN'T FIGURE IT OUT. YOU TRY. HOW CAN SOMEBODY JUST LEAVE THEIR SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A SNOW· BANK WHEN THEY HAVE TO DRIVE HOME? If you lhiDk lhallhe dummy mig hi be you. call 7559. 
LOST GOLD ND MEN'S RING. LOST 
BEFORE BREAK SOMEWHERE ON 
CAMPUS. IT HAS A BLUE STONE WITH 
NO ENGRAVED ON TOP MY NAME 
AND YEAR (85) ARE ENGRAVED INSIDE. THERE IS A LARGE REWARD OFFERED FOR ITS RETURN. IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT MAY BE. PLEASE CALL JEFF ONEILL AT 8854. 
FOUND: WOMAN'S HIGH SCHOOL RING. CLASS OF '82; NOTRE DAME HIGH SCHOOL; INITIALS J.D. ORIGINALLY FOUND AT SMC ONE YEAR AGO. CALL ND ALUMNI ASSN., 
6000. 
LOST· C1!1zen watch w/gold case & black band on 4/41n SQuad ST area. Call7992 a"er tt 
LOST· A BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE UMBRELLA WITH THE INITIALS RPM ON THE HANDLE. I REALLY NEED IT I WOULD APRECIATE IT IF YOU WOULD CHECK YOUR UMBRELLA JUST IN CASE YOU ACCIDENTLY PICKED UP MINE. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA· TION PLEASE CALL RICH AT X873t THANK YOU. 
lost: gold nmmed eyeglasses in a maroon case. poss1bly losl near post office. if found please oall 234-6482 around mid­night. 

LOST: Mass. L1cense. Cred1l Cards. and 24hr-Bank Card 1n blue ND holder. Very importanl' If found. please call Linda al 6865. 
~00,:~~~~~:,~.~ 
4-6 bedrooms. 2 balhs Call277·346t 
WANTED 
Come to Boston for the summer. Couples are seeking mature persons lo help with chlldcare and household responsibilities In exchange tor room, board and $125 net weekly salary. Please cell Kate Goldfield at 617-862· 7982 or write: 283 Marren Road, Lexi­ngton, MA 02173. 
RIDE NEEDED TO DC AREA EASTER BREAK·-DOLLY t277 ENDAD 
NEED 2 Rides lo DC for Easler CALL 284-429t/4162 
Need ride D.C.(Georgelown) for Easter. Can leave Thrs. a"er t Return Monday. Call Patrick 3263. 
WANTED: Female roommate to share one· bedroom apl. al Campus View. Call Tracy at 277-7232. 
Need ride to CINCINNATI for EAS­TER.Can leave WEDS 4/t8.Terry 6737 
Ride needed to Omaha for Easter for 1 or 
2. Call SMC 4354. 

L...I__T_IC_K_E_Ts_ ___. 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. CALL JOHN AT 176t. 
GRADUATION tickets needed. Please call Sherrie al X3726. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 3t N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
·OURTH MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED OR CAMPUS VIEW APT. IF IN· TERESTED PLEASE CONTACT BRIAN AT t238. 
Need a place lo slay lhis summer? Wanl to sublet a 2 bedroom townhouse apart­men!. t. 2 or 31enanls. Within walk1ng dis­tance of campus. Semi-furnished. $250/monlh wilhoul ulililies (negotiable) Call283-t479. 
TO THURSDAY'S SQUIRREL·HUNTER from OC, your conversation was appre­Ciated on that rainy day. The PW res. movingOC 
QUESTION 3: Who founded the Institute lor Policy Studies in Washington, D.C., served as Director t963·78, and is now a Senior Fel­low al the Institute? 
You·ve seen break dancmg. come see rake dancing. La Filla Mal Gardee Apnl t2·t5 
ALL RIGHT, THIS IS PRETTY SILLY WE WANT HAROLD B. AND NOBODY IS GONNA STOP US BEWARE SENIOR FELLOW COMMIT· TEE THE MASSES WILL HAVE THEIR WAY 
Therese Kraemer, Therese Kraemer. Therese Kraemer Come and see your team (Yorba Linda Fan Club) play ball like they've never played before today at 
4:00 on the Bookstore Courts; Starring Michael Smith and some others. 
And hello from lhe dude from lhe g1" shop al Disneyland 
LINCOLN, NEBRASKA BLOWS CHOW IN ASSORTED COLORS 
MOLEHEAD'S BIG BUTI BEATS KIRK'S BIGBUTII!I 
SCU ME YOU ARE BUT A BLANK PAGE IN THE BOOK OF ZEN. I UNDER· STAND. YOU ARE ONLY t5. 
CRIME OF THE WEEK: CRIMESTOP· PEAS will pay up lo $1000 ca sh lor Information leading to the arrest of the person who was seen stealing a street s1gn allhe corner of US 3t and Glendale Ave. lasl Thursday mghl. The suspect was descnbed by HOOSIER witnesses as hav1ng brown hair and a extremely VAL personality. Please call 6637 w1th 1n· 
to. 
CAMELOTlll 

Tickets are now on sale lor the NO Stu­dent Players· production of Lerner and Loewe's Arthur/an fantasy, 
CAMELOTtfl 

Thursday, Friday and Saturday, April 26, 27 and 28 in the Bendix Theater in the Century Center downtown. Tickets are limited and are on sale elsewhere. so hur~ ry and get them/ $4.00 m advance at the NO Student Union Record Store and the D'Laughlin box office 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED BY THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE MON·THUR 8-tt & FRI·SAT 8· t CALL 272-4453!! 
Theo Malors: Be sure to anend lhe presentations by Ginger Garren , Fauatln Weber and Tom Wilmouth on Tuesday, Aprll10 at10:00 p.m. In room 331 O'Shaughnessy. Be there to sup­port your fellow students. 
MAGER MAGER MAGER It COULD be dev1slat1ng Ill My Oh My Oh My Ill B811 Monster 
The Observer Monday, Apri19, 1984-page 13 
! 

Bookstore
SENIORS: 
continued/rom page 16 

best bookstore team and there was no way that we were going to win it with four guys," commented Walsh. 
Despite his valiant effort, . 
Rememberto votefor 
your seniorfellow 
however, S & G rallied to a 21-13 victory. 
In other action, the 3 Reverends ofJesse Jackson, in the highlighted game ofthe day, downed 5 Hoosiers in Leisure Suits 21-7. The Reverends, Robert Nobles ( 6 points), Cecil
TODAY 
Rucker ( 5 ), and John Mosely ( 4 ), had no trouble downing the team clad in polyester leisure suits. 

With the score II-I, the Hoosiers tried a Hoosier dunk in which 3 players hoisted up another to the rim. However, it failed. A later at­tempt, although, netted a point despite a counter-effort by Mosely. A 
W4t i(ntgltt& DftlttC!fastlt 

half dozen jams were enough to thwart Dave Kaiser's 3-12 shooting 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest 

and capture the win. Jc-" _ ti-.. ~inutes from campus 
The seeded Return of the Pigbag, led by Brian Pelczar's seven points
~~ SPRING SPECIAL 

and Dan Kerrigan's 6-8 with two dunks, had an easy time trouncing the Good 01' Boys 21-3. The Retur­ners used an agressive man-to-man
$5 Haircut only 
defense and average 6-inch height advantage ·to rattle off 18 un­
277-1691 

Haircut, Shampoo 
272-0312 
Blowdry 
offer only applies to male patrons 
Hrs: Tues. Wed: 8:30-5:30 54533 Terrace 1:ane Thur, Frl: 8:30-8:30 AcrOss from Martin'a Sat: 8:00-2:30 
St. RQ. 23 Clq~MQ!1 .. 
A-11-ENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
-. ~ 


...... . 
..... .. -.... .-' ' . . ­
Measuremen!s will be taken for-
Aerospace 
Architecture 
Chemical
CapS 'and Go~ns/ 
Civil 
Electrical
------_---------. ' ' ' t.­
I 

I 
Mechanical Metallurgical
TUESDAY, APRIL 10 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11 
.. .. ., 
Biology 
Chemistry

_: -~.~~ . _~twe~n 9:00 ~ 4_;po -:-· -~-~. 
Earth Sciences
'.. -.-' ----_ \ -. -. t t"h-'----c :: , ___.;. 
Mathematics
:·_; :-~_a _. e , .-_/-··__--~.-'' ~-.·-.. 
Microbiology 
Physics

~-·-': -:NdTRE DAME-·-, 
answered points to fmalize the sack­ing. 
The seeded Brickthrowers, led by Bob Michael's 9-11 ( 6 rebounds) and Greg Russell's 8-10 downed the Five Horsemen 21-1. With the crisp passing of point guard Dana Hovig, the winners took only 12 minutes to complete the task. 
Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, as­sistant rector at Sorin, playing in his 11th bookstore tournament, led the Shootists over This Is Our Best Team Yet 21-19. Father Malloy (eight points, eight rebounds) swished the winning goal from 30 feet away to end the game. 
"We live from day to day," com­mented Monk who believes his team can advance further. "If the wind doesn't blow and we play together, we should win a couple ofgames." 
We Can Beat You with One Hand Tied behind Our Back was unable to hold true to their claim. Playing with their left hands tied behind thier backs, they were downed by The Drillers 21-1 who were led by Brent Paulsen's 7 points and 8 boards. Gay Guttrerez was 1-4 with a rebound for the losers. 
The Sneakergate Sneaks, led by John Regalevito's 9-11 and Lelly Clark's I 0-14, downed the Seminar Liberation Organization 21-3. 
Four White Guys & An Extra Ten­don, led by Pat Kelley's 13-19 and 

Business Administration College Program 122 Hayes-Healy Center, A through Mat 6:30 to 7:30PM 
seven boards, overcame Sewer Rats, . Tunahead, and the Gouly GuGu's 
21-7. 

"Where's the Beef' and the 4 Meat 
Mongers, led by Zahm Hall Presi­
dent BobJohnson's seven points and 
12 rebounds, easily overcame Five 
Hawaiians Hanging Ten 21-2. 

MikeJames was 0-16 but his team, 
Scholongers, knocked off the 
Wasted Knights 21-14. 

John Kuhns grabbed 16 rebounds 
to go along with his eight points to 
help Naugles Memorial beat 
Stonehill Four Plus One 21-9. 

Finallly, BVK with Greg Ripples 
(8-9) and Mike Bono (7-9) downed 
the Gang ofFive 21-7. 

Bookstore action continues 
tomorrow at Stepan, behind the 
Bookstore, and at Lyons. 

COMMISSIONER'S CHOICES ­
Blumb's bombshells for today 
are ...At 4 p.m. on Stepan 4 the 
Shysters face the Legion of 
Doom ....Two games at 6:15 with 
Fun Bunch 5 (with football players 
Rick DiBernardio and Greg Din­
gens) against We're Not Short All 
Over on Stepan 2 ....And on Bookstore 10, 4 Players and an Irish­man face Nutmeggers VIII featuring John andJoe M:yer and Todd Lezon. 
Bookstore results and pairings can be found on page 12. 
Live 

i39 W. JllciUnley Ave. 
IIUUaWitka, ID4IIaaa46545 $1.00 MARGARITAS 
2 for 1 BARDRINKS 
(five •mat..fro• ca•pa•) 

FRESHMAN PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGRAM 
Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program areas on Tuesday, Apri110 at 6:30pm. 
At each program complete information will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree curriculum. 
The meeting places for the programs, according to college program area, are as follows: 
N through Z at 7:45 to 8:45PM 
Engineering College Programs 
Cushing Hall, room 303 Architecture Building, room 201 Cushing Hall, room 212 Cushing Hall, room 205 356 Fitzpatrick Hall: A through L at 6:30PM M through Z at 7:00PM Cushing Hall, room 122 Fitzpatrick Hall, room 254 
Science College Programs 
Galvin Life Science Center, room 278 Nieuwland Science Hall, room 341 Earth Science Bldg., room 101 Computing Center & Math Building, room 300 Galvin, room 109 Nieuwland, room 401 
Preprofessional (science only) NieuwhuuL mom 127 
-•' . -. ,;;::r ~ ·-::_ ---.... ,;_ . ----:.~ . -, .­~.... ··-~;--·-. 

ALL FRESHMAN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR 
-. .. .-~.:_-;;; ., --BOOKSTORE~ 

DEPARTMENT THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR. 
'' 
. 

The Observer Monday, April9, 1984-page 14 
Spring football 

Sloppy execution marks scrimmage 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Spurts Writer 
It started off in a big way for the Notre Dame football team's second Saturday scrimmage, but some· where along the way sloppy execu­tion took over and nt."ver relinquished its hold on Coach Ger­ry Faust's troops. 
On the second play of the day, sophomore-to-be tailback Alonzo Jefferson scampered 57 yards for a score and the first offensive unit ap­pt.'ared to be rt."ady to take any ddt.·nse it fact."d straight down tht.' field. 
1:-lowevt.'r, the nt."xt two times that same offense fact.'ll the number two deft.'nse, the t(JOtball changed hands. 
Sophomore quarterba~:k Steve Beuerlcin was the goat on both oc­casions, twice throwing intercep­tions after they had been tipped by his receivt."rs. 
Sophomore Alvin Miller made a thirteen-yard grab before Jefferson accounted for ten of the next eleven yards on the ground in two carries. Beuerlcin then lofted an on-target pass to senior Chris Smith that slipped through his fingers into the waiting arms of sophomore safety Scott Rogers. 
On the next possession, a short pass to junior Mark Bavaro also dropped into Rogers' hands, giving indication that it was going to be a tough day for Beuerlcin, whose statistics ( 9-of-18 for 107 yards and three interceptions) were well short of his 20-of-24 performance last week. 
On tht.' next set of plays, the second offt.·nsive unit tested the number ones on defense. Led by Scott Grooms, the twos ground up yardage and got down to the nine before their drive was thwarted. Passes by Grooms to the just· returned Joe Howard and sopho­more Joel Williams highlighted the drive. 
But it was all downhill from there. 
"We're not in good shape," Faust said afterward, " and when you're not in shape, you're not going to ex­ecute." 
Faust and his coa<:hing staff must have vowed to get his team in shape this spring, however, because the two-and-a-half hour scrimmage only felt longer because action was often interrupted by "up-downs," as Faust calls them, which were the punish­ment meted out fur penalties, poor tal·kling and other similar mistakes. 
In fact, on many plays, both the of­knse and defense cumbint.·d to look had enough to cause one to wonder if both squads would be diving for the grass. 
The defense as a wh<ile registered a bt."tter performance than the of­ft.·nst.·, although there were plays like sophomore Hiawatha Francisco·~ 2H-yard run that rt.'sulted from a couple of missed tackles hy the ddense. 
"I thought that it was a good effort for us," said Defensive Coordinator Andy Christoff. "I think that we umfused the quarterbacks hy using more coverages -but there are things like tackling, covering the 
Indy Colts still have eastern ties 
Baltimore city circuit Judge Martine B. Greenfield on Friday signed a 35-day restraining order, which can be extt.'nded, prohibiting the NFL from transferring the Colts' "ct·rtiflcate of membership" from tht.' city. The injunction also prohibits NFL 
officials from approving any 

contracts or broadcast sponsors and 
al:ct.'pting television income "unless 
and until" the "home territory" is 
the city of Baltimore. 
sweeps and scamble situations that ,we have to work on." 
The first offense got in its licks 
against the first defense when the 
two met -the five possessions 
resulted in a touchdown and two 
field goals. 

On tht.· first meeting, Francisco, 
who had H8 yards on 13 attempts, 
carried the ball for 59 yards, but the 
drive stalled on the four-yard line 
when Milt Jackson dropped a Beuer­
lcin pass. Ted Gradel kicked a 22­
yard chip-shot for three points. 

After forcing a pass that was 
picked off by Pat Ballage, Beuerlein 
regained his composure and placed 
a perfect pass to senior tight end 
Ricky Gray for a 13-yard touch­
down. 

Freshman redshirt Joe Felitsky, 
who completed only 1-of-4 passes 
for zero yards, led the top unit to a 
32-yard John Carney field goal later 
in the scrimmage. 

Grooms, who had no better time 
of it, spent the most time at quarter­
back for the second unit and was 6­
of-1 0 for 28 yards with one 
interception, an errant bomb 
snagged by safetyJoeJohnson. 

Jefferson led in the statistical 
column for the offense, with 112 yards on 15 carries, as Allen Pinkett again watched the action from the sidelines. Seniors Mark Brooks and Smith split time at number one ful­lback, with Brooks netting 68 yards. Miller and Howard led the way in the receiving department, collect­ing three and two catches, 
respectively. 

In individual terms for the defense, linemen Mike Griffin. Greg Dingens, and Gann each had sacks against the riddled offense. Lirebackers Itian Behmer, Joe Bars and Mike Larkin each had some good plays also. 
But the whole day was a lesson in showing how valuable a spring practice season can be, as the Irish have I I more spring workouts to improve their play, which was by far from off the level needed for meeting the opposition in the fall. 
"We did a lot of different things and we're still experimenting," said offensive coordinator Ron Hudson. "This is what spring is for, and I am sure we will improve before the start of the season." 
Even though sloppiness prevailed on Saturday, hopefully it will not become a Notre lllme trademark for next year. 

en
• 0 
~c 
:EN
• 
o!::!
• ca. 
®


and Sunshine Promotions 
P R f S l N l S 

JON ANDERSON CHR.IS SQUIRE TRfVOR RABIN AlAN WHIT I: TONY KAYE 
Thursday, April26 8:00P.M. Notre Dame A.C.c. All Seats Reserved $12.50 
Tickets on sale at the A.C.C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City). Robertson's (South Bend, Town and Country and Concord Mall). Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (laPorte). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). World Record (Goshen). Music Mogle (Benton Harbor) and Karma Records (Ft. Wayne). 

Authentic. handmade Italian p1zza, Mado With our own special Crust, Covered w1th a fresh blend of mozzarella cheese and your cho1ce of 
mouthwatenng extras 
Dial Our 

"PIZZA HOTLINE" 
284·2011 
FREE_DeJive.ry 
WILD PIZZA Delivery Hours: Sunday-Thursday 7 PM-Midnight 
on St. Mary's Campus Only 
This Week's Special: 
Free 2 Liter Bottle ofPepsi with the purchase of a 14" 3 topping pizza, only $8.60. 
Good through Aprlll2, 1984 
Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt 
Menu 

another crushing blow? Revive yourself with a well­All Pizzas Include Our rounded meal from Special Blend of Sauce Dominds Pizza. We'll help and 100% Real Cheese smooth the wrinkles out of your day. Our Superb 
Cheese Pizza Dominds Pizza makes this 12" cheese $4.79 guarantee: If your pizza 16" cheese $6.89 does not arrive within 30 minutes, ifs free...no Domino's Deluxe coupon necessary! 5 items for the price of 4 
Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers 

and Sausage 12" Deluxe $ 8.35Delive~ 16" Deluxe $12.05 
Fast ... Free 
Additional Items 
Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Olives, Green Peppers, 
Call us. 

Onions, Ground Beef, 1835 South Bend Ave. Sausage, Extra Cheese, Plaza 23 Center Ham, Extra Thick Crust, 
Jalapenos, Anchovies Hours: 12" pizza $ .89 per item 4:30pm-1 am Sun.-Thurs. 16!' pizza $1.29 per item 4:30pm-2&m Fri & Sat. 
Coke•available Ask about our party discounts. Prices do not include 
applicable sales tax. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery area 
277·2151 
o 1ae.t Domino's Ptu.a. Inc. 

r-----------------------------, 
Only $7.25 for a 
16" 1 ·item pizza with two Cokes~>.

Monday 
Good Mondays Only. One coupon per pizza. 

Special 
Fast, Free Delivery'" 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
39033/2650

II. 
r 
' I L--·--·--·--···----···----····J 
r 
~c:tcJlCl~----------------------------~---M-on_d~~~,A~p-ri~l9~,~~9~8-4~p~ag~e~15 
Bloom County 

Berke Breathed 
Campus 


Monday, April9, 1984-page 16 
Baseball team's wins even up season record 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN ror in the fifth to stretch the lead to !>ports Writer 6-3. Although each team scored an un­
Although the Notre Dame earned run in its final turn at bat, the baseball team may not have playt:d outcomc had heen decide<.!. Lope~ its best baseball of the season over took thc win for the Irish to bring his the past weekend, it played well record to 2-1. Dec had two hits to enough to win three out of four lead Notre Damc, while Clark and games and even its record at I0-I0. Vuono each had two RBL Gallo was 
On Saturday, the Irish took a pair especially pleased with Clark's per­of wins from the University of Wis­formance, but praised the team as a consin in games playt"d at jake Kline whole. Field. Notre Dame won the first "David played very, very well in game 7-6 in a sec-saw contest. The both games," he commented. "But I Irish led by a slim 2-1 margin going was pleased with our hitting as a into the bottom of the fifth inning, whole. Wc missed many oppur­when catcher David Clark ripped a tunities in both games, but the im­three-run double to give the team a portant thing was that we managed 5-l lead. to win both of them." 
But the Badgers were not In a doubleheader ycstcrday, thc through. They tied it with four un­Irish were only able to split with earned runs in the sixth, and took a DePauw. Tom Conlin pitched a 
6-5 lead with a run in the seventh off strong three-hitter in the opening Notre Dame hurler Steve Powell. contest to lead Notre Dame to a 9-3 The Irish had come to win, however. victory. 
With one out, Carl Vuono The Irish broke open a 3· 3 tie with doubled to score Tom Shields, and a six-run outburst in the bottom of advanced to third on the throw to the sixth. Moran, Dee, Mike Metzler, the plate. After Steve Passinault and and Casey Snyder all contributed to jackie Moran received intentional the rally with RBI singles. walks, pinch-hitter Mike Doming Conlin had no trouble retiring the singled to drive in the winner. side in the seventh, and the Irish 
Reliever jason Schomer received moved past the .500 mark for the the win to win to even his record at llrst time this season. Although three
Sports Writer boiled eggs "home" could not entered the game when the score 
2-2. Shields had three hits for the runs were scored against the Irish,benefit them enough. was 7-1 to go 5-6 with six rebounds. 
Irish, while Clark contributed two Conlin did not give up an earned run
The l ~th annual Bookstore Bas­The champs, who munched on eg­Brian Enright tallied four points and hits and three RBI. in his seven innings of work, and heketball Toumamc:nt -that event grolls, spaghetti, and sandwiches 17 boards. Lou Nanni and Mike Con­
In the second game of the twin­evened his record at 2-2.
which floods the Notre Dame throughout the game, brought the lin ( 12 rebounds) each added five. 
bill, the Irish rode the strong pitch­The second game, as Gallo put it,campus with basketball fever for a game to a halt after scoring their first Yesterday, the tourney took flight 
ing of Buster Lopes to a 7-4 victory. "was an incredible game." In a wild,pniod of three weeks every spring basket ofthe game to close the gap at with 73 games. At the Stepan courts, Head Coach larry Gallo was pleased hack-and-forth contest, DePauw 
-tipped off Friday afternoon in 6-L With this hoop, the team the games were dominated by a 20­
with Lopes' effort. came away with a I 1-I 0 extra­front ofa crowd loaded with basket­celebrated with a Domino's pizza knot wind gusting from the east and "Buster pitched wei! in the inning win.
ball and food junkies alike with the delivered directly to center court. a 48 degree temperature. 
second game," he said. "After a bit of The Irish appeared to have the
19H4 Bookstore Hall of Fame game. A Twinkie offense, in which each The action, however, was hot and
I a shaky first inning, he came on to game well in hand entering the top
At court 9, behind the bookstore heavy as big and small, quick and
r 
pitch a strong game." of the sixth, as they hdd a 6-2 lead.
buikling, last year's runner-up -Te­slow teams lumbered up and down After the Badgers jumped out to a Suddenly, however, the DePauwquila White Lightning ran, the courts to provide hundreds of 2-0 lead in the first, Vuono quickly
Bookstore XIII bats began to smash the ball, and
jumped, rebounded, and shot all die-hard fans with great action. 
tied it up in the second with a two­before Notre fllmc knew what hap­ovn the IOK Caloric Champs Tournament Commissioner jeff 
run homer. A two-run single by pened, it was behind 9-6.
Fasthreakers. The highly partisan Blumb said, "There were some good Clark in the fourth pushed the Irish The Irish came back with a Clutch, 
crowd which stood four deep teams and there were some funny 
out to a 4-3 lead, and the team
around tlw outdoor court, booed player swallowed a Twinkie while a teams (and overall) the games went capitalized on two walks and an er-see BASEBALL, page 12 
. continually as TWI. ran off 6 un­shot was thrown up from half-court, offwithout a hitch." answcrt:d points to start the contest proved unsuccessful after the break. The good action, though, was while playing a man short as frt:sh­However. a dining hall defense in scarred by three injuries -a broken rnan quartt:rhack Steve Bt:uerldn which the champs used trays instead collar bone, a dislocated shoulder, was ddaycd in getting to the game. of their hands did net one steaL and a dislocated knee. 
Thl· IOK C:alorit: Champs With a I 1-1 halftime score, the One of these injuries occurred in Fastbrcakers, champs in a Law champs tried to rally with a box-and­the Sodom & Gomorrah -Low Al­School eating contest, warmnl up one defense. llnfortunately, four titude Bombers matchup. Lou prior to the match with a light ft:ast defenders holding onto a box under Walsh, a Stanford senior, dislocated of oyMers and champagnt: served to the haskct while the other roamed his knee with the score tied at six. thc·m as a ~it-down ml'al at their end the territon· was the wrong call as However. he returned to finish the of the court lw nint· waiters and a TWL netted a shot from the corner. game in hopes of helping his team, ruxedonl m.titre d'. They wert·. The champs \Vcre able to come LAB. advance. however, unahk tt> profit from thl'ir back with two latt· baskets but fell "This is my senior year and my eXlT-'-~iv1.. calork intake~. .Even a short at 21-5. Even a late Atka-Seltzer pregame lay-up exl·rcise during timeout wa~ not enough to cool off see BOOKSTORE, page 13 
Western Michigan today 

Irish extend winning streak to 5 
By ED KONRADY who have beaten Notre Dame the State and a very successful Florida Sports W-'riler last two years. road trip. "Western Michigan has a doubles Coming back home, they have The men's tennis team blasted the team ofDunkle and Herman who arc quickly dispatched all their op­
three inferior clubs in their quadran­nationally ranked," said Head Coach ponents except for a disappointing gular last weekend in preparation Tom Fallon. "If they play according showing against Hawaii. They arc for today's matchup against rival to form, and win their singles playing their best tennis to date, and Western :\'tichigan. matches, we could be down 3-0 Western Michigan should be a 
"The teams wert: defmately a little quick. ~vere test for them. weaker," said Assistant Coach Tom "To win, we need everybody "People at Bowling Green and Hartzell. "But it's going to be tough playing at top ability. I predict that it Ball Statt: think that Western Michi­against Western Michigan. We 1.:ould be a 5-4 match going either gan Lo; the toughest in the Mid­woulll have liked a tougher match way -hopefully ours. We just can't American Conference," said Fallon. ( this past weekend), but hopefully afford to lose too many easy points." The match against the powerful "We'll he ready for them." Broncos will start at 3 p.m., either at 
At times l;u.1 weekend's competi­"Everyone is really playing well," the Courtney Tennis Center or in tion looked pathetic. The Irish said sixth singles player Paul case ofinclement weather, the ACC. dropped only one set all weekend, Najarian. "We're at a good point to After Western Michigan, the Irish winning all three matches 9-0 play Western Michigan. This will be can't get complacent, as they have a against Wisconsin-Oshkosh, Indiana one of the biggest matches of the busy scheduled ahead ofthem. They 
Statt\ and Illinois-Chicago. vear." face Butler tomorrow, Northern Il­Although thc win~ last wt·ekend linois Thursday, and hold a tri­boosted thdr rtTord 10 14-6 and It sn·m~ that the timt· is right for angular meet with Marquette and The (){)scrvt"r/Thom Rradky 
~-:an· tl1elll a lln·-matdl winnin~ the Iri~h against Westt·rn Michigan. Purdm· this weekend. All the The Notre Dame baseball team ll'On tbree offour games this :,i,·c,lk, hopt"fully-the lri,,h won't let Alicr a tough loss .tgainst 13ig Ten afort:mentioned matches will be weekend to even out tbeir record at 10-10. E1·ic Schettermalln's 1~· ~.~· .._· .t:"l:; ~·h:t' Jfir-, in•r·-·lit: their pown \li· :ligan, thl' t..:am playt·d at home, either at the story bas all the details rm tbe rolb!rcoaste•·fortunes of tf.w lrl.~b !\fl·p.u· ·;j ·i· :u-lh:...:. . -=U)!,h ih~>n·__-.,~. n:boiHhicd for a •)ib win o•,cr Ball <:ourtney Tennis Center or the AC< :. abm•e. 





