Hockey extra page 12 

VOL XIX, NO.6<; the indqwndent ~tutkllt IK<A ~paper ~tTl 111g notn dame ;111d ~aint mar)·~ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1984 

SMC students have two options for lofts in new college policy 
By LYNNE R. STRAND will be required to use the architec­Neu•sSta!f tural design we have," said McCarthy. 
The: new Saint Mary's loft policy McCarthy also said the dorm bed 
gives students two options · a frames not used because of the lofts 
company-built kit, or a blueprint will be stored in the basements of 
guide: for student-built lofts, said the dorms. The lofts must be taken 
Anne McCarthy, chairwoman of the down before graduation time. Saint Mary's I.oft Committee. A loft survey was conducted by 
The: nt·w policy, which was an· the committee on Nov. 13 during nouncc:d yesterday, goes into effect lunch and dinner at Saint Mary's in the fall semester of 1985. Dining Hall. With 439 Saint Mary's 
'Ille blueprint option, says students responding, 81 percent McCarthy, is for students who agreed that the lofts would make the would he ahle to "construct the lofts dorm rooms more livable, while 75 cht·apc:r than what we could offer percent said they now wanted lofts. them for." 69 percent of the Saint Mary's stu­
All company bids will be made by dents surveyed opted for the loft this semester's end and the I.oft kits. The kits could range from S75 Committee will puhlidze the new to S 160, said McCarthy. "They won't loft policy and cost next semester. be less." Ofthose students surveyed, "We're getting the cheapest price 4S percent would spend S75, and 35 we can," said McCarthy. percent would spend S I 00. 
Saint Mary's will not be making a The loft issue was raised last profit on the lofts. llle company spring when the administration of chosen will build the loft kits next Saint Mary's announced the summer and will install them in the residence halls would he integrated fall. Also, the lofts will be sold per this year. Regina Hall, which is person, not per room sim:e each loft predominantly singles, was trans­sleeps one student. formed from a I00 percent fresh­
Saint Mary's Controller and Busi· men population to SO percent ness Manager, jason Lindower Jr., freshmen and SO percent sop­fully supported the proposed loft homores. policy yesterday. Lynn Stone, a Regina sophomore, 
'lllc: t·ommittee also considered said, "Lofts would be very beneficial thc: option of Saint Mary's supplying to Regina. If you live in a room for only the necc:ssary wood in order for nine months, you should be able to the studt·nts to build their own lofts. have some: freedom. You should be But, said McCarthy, "We didn't see ' comfortable. Where else are you the advantage for buying wood." She going to get together with your said pt·r~onally "the easiest way is to friends?" buy a loft kit." Stone said, "Yes, definitely," to the 
Saint Mary's new loft policy is proposed lofts. She would even bat·ked hy the: Notre Dame Director spend up to 5200 for a loft. Stone of Fire Safety jack Bland and Tom also said time would be saved with Borger, a Saint Mary's architect. 'Ille the loft kit option, but money would loft~ will comply with the current be saved using the specified do·it· Notre Dame standards of no less yourself blueprints. than 36 inches from the ceiling, and Melody Cameron, a McCandless no more than seven feet from the sophomore, said the new loft policy lloor. "is a good idea." "We should have 
"Ea1.:h loft will be checked by a them if they're built properly," she college representative... somt·one 
see LOFTS, page 4c:ngineer·orientated. 'flle students 

Katy Orle, left, andjaneHarless showsupportfor their section contestant In tbe Miss Holy Cross con­test, held last night In Saint Mary's Moreau Little 

Campus coffee house is examined as possible new social life option 
By MIKE ANNAN LISA Zahm's biweekly Coffee House, would be lively without being over­News Staff now in its third year, is an evening of hearing," he said. conversation, food such as coffee Another attractive feature of the 
In the ongoing battle to improve and donuts, and live entertainment · proposed coffee house is its social life at Notre Dame, the crea­including everything from ventrilo­availability. "If a shop like this were tion of a campus coffee house is a quists to jazz bands, said Zahm rec­built, students would have a place to new option being considered. tor Father Thomas King. go or take a date without having to 
The coffee house · would be That atmosphere is what Wurth wait for a class-sponsored event," modeled after Zahm Hall's Coffee believes students are interested in. said Wurth. "llle coffee house House in some respects, said Doug The coffee house would attempt to would always be there." Wurth, executive coordinator of achieve the intimate, relaxed setting Wurth also believes that the cof­student government. Unlike Zahm's that characterizes Zahm's event, fee house should be student-run. Coffee House, however, it always Wurth said. 11lis would allow the shop to cater would be open and would not be It would be a place for students to 
see CO..'FEE, page 4dorm-oriented, he said. get togeth~r in "an atmosphere that 
I 

Few college stations broadcast as WVFI-AM still does 
Thefollowing Is thefinal part ofa three-part series on WVFJ-AM, the student-run radio station serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
By ELIZABETH CORNWELL 
News Staff 
While WVFI·AM may broadcast over electrical outlets, this method is anything but current. 
The Notre Dame student-run radio station differs in a number of ways from many college stations. Few colleges are still operating a carrier current operation such as the one at WVFI-AM. And Geor­getown's WROX, which is still using the system, Is considering updating their station, said David Rhode, station manager at WROX. 
WROX, like Notre Dame's WVFI-AM, recently applied for a FCC lkense. It will be several years before their license application is either rejected or approved, said Rhode. However, the WROX staff is not optimistic. 
In Washington, D.C., where Georgetown is located, the FM band Is already overcrowded. WROX is competing with over 70 other stations for the frequency they want, said Rhode. 
Because the process Is slow and not promising the WROX staff has begun to investigate another op· tion. An FM cable radio network is about to be initiated in Washing­ton, D.C. Depending on the cost, WROX may soon become a cable radio station, said Rhode. 
When the switch from carrier current to FM band is made, many other changes occur at a radio sta­tion. Because the audience is broadened, every aspect ofthe sta­tion's operation is affected, said Rhode. 
The student-run radio stations at Northwestern University, Boston College and Yale University already have their FCC licenses. These stations have become very different from Notre Dame's WVFI­AM. 
A_.;, A A • A • A A 

WVFI 

Series 
A A II A A II A 
When college stations receive their FCC licenses, often their audiences expand outside the campus. 
Northwestern's WNUR, which has one ofthe largest number oflis­teners for a college station, has al­most no student listeners, said Mike Misrok, music director at WNUR. The station is popular in the nearby Chicago suburbs and in the city itself, he said. 
Boston College's WZBC es­timates oniy ten to twenty percent of its listeners are students, said Kevin Conburry, station manager at WZBC. 
When a station has a change in audience content, it is forced to tailor its programming format to that new audience. Yale's WYBC has an extremely varied format, said Andy Brown, station manager at WYBC. Their offerings include gospel singing, new wave music, disco, reggae and blue grass. 
The schools which have switched to the FM band have found that costs have Increased. Because most stations work with a limited budget, they have had to find new ways to meet the new ex­penses. 
Yale's WYBC became one of the country's few college commercial stations, said Brown. Their sales department has accounts with both local and national corpora­tions. They need far fewer com­mercials than the regular profit-making stations to cover their operating costs because they are not making a profit, he said. 
Northwestern's WNUR is a non­commercial station. WNUR has begun running annual fundraisers, said Misrok. Recently, they had a weeklong radio telethon to gain community contributions. 
The carrier current status of Notre Dame's WVFI-AM allows the station to operate on a cheaper basis than other college stations because it uses older and less ex­pensive equipment. But because WVFI-AM is oniy broadcast throughout the dorms, It enables the station to continue concentrat­ing on the student listeners. 


The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 2 



In Brief ­
Construction worker Jeffery Condon 
was listed in fair condition yesterday at St. Joseph's Medical Center with injuries suffered in a 20-foot fall Wednesday at Notre Dame's natatorium site. Condon suffered multiple fractures in the accident, according to hospital officials. He is employed by the Crane Indus­trial Service Co. ofGranger, Ind. -The Observer 
TheJudicial Council Coordinatorfor the 
spring semester will be elected at the council's next meeting, to be held Thursday, Dec. 6 at 7:30p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Center. Atten­dance at last night's meeting was poor, but the committee producing a student rights manual did report progress toward the ·completion of their project. The manual could be ready for publication by early 
• next semester, said Karen Ingwersen, committee chairwoman. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Kicking offthe Christmas season·will be 
the first Undergraduate Club Night tomorrow at 9, sponsored by the Student Activities office and the Alumni-Senior Club. "The Bobs," in their first Midwest appearance, will begin the evening with a live concert at 9:30. "The Bobs" are a band out of the San Francisco Bay area whose approach to music can be best described as unusual. Three guys and a girl (all named "Bob") perform a cappella (without instruments) New Wave music. The sound they produce could be called "Punk Barbershop Quartet." -Tbe Observer 
Potawatomi Zoo has a big problem this 
holiday season thai only you can solve. The zoo has just received three new reindeer-but Santa won't be able to call them out to help him Christmas Eve, along with Donner, Prancer, Dancer, and Blitzen, until they've been named. So come to Zooltide, tomorrow through Dec. 9, from 5:30p.m. to 8:30p.m. and put your creativity to work at the "Name lbe Reindeer" contest table. Winners will receive a free meal for two at the Marriott Hotel in South Bend and you might just make our reindeer as famous as Rudolph! -The Observer 
Transpo will be cooperatingwith the st. Vin­
cent DePaul Society in the collection of non-perishable food items for distribution to the community's underprivileged. Containers will be provided on board Transpo buses Monday through Dec. 22 for the receipt ofdonated goods. Donated items in glass containers are discouraged. This is exclusively a voluntary program and does not take the place of the rider's normal fare. -The Observer 
Linda Hudgins, assistant professor of economics at Notre Dame, will be the keynote speaker today at the annual confer­ence of the Indiana Household Movers and Warehousers at the In­dianapolis Marriott Hotel. Her talk is entitled "The Role of Carrier Agents in the New Deregulated Environment" and assesses the im­pact on the household moving industry of regulatory reform through the Household Goods Transportation Act of 1980. -The Observer 
The fourth talk in the SerieS "Religion and 
Politics" will be held today at I2: I5 for faculty and staffat the Center for Social Concerns. The speaker is Thomas W erge, professor in the Notr.e Dame department of English. He will speak on "America as Apocalypse: the Rhetoric oflntensityand the Fate ofHumor." Brown bag lunch or soup/bread will be available for S I. The talk will be given in Room I24 ofthe CSC. -The Observer 
A Cider Stomp will be held tonight at the Center for Social Concerns. Folkdancing and fun will be provided. Admission price: bring some food to share. All faculty, staff and students are invited. -The Observer 

Weather 
A cold front is expected to bring a chance of rain possibly mixed with snow later today. Highs are expected to reach into the 40s and 50s early today, but slowly fall as the cold front pushes through. Lows tonight in the upper 20s to low 30s. Partly 'cloudy tomorrow, with a chance ofsnow flurries and highs in the upper 30s to mid 40s. -AP 

The .Observer-
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame ami Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( $20 per >e· -mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of The As5ociated Press. All reproduction riJibts are reserved. 
-L..-----_;____-' 
Production Consultant ........ Steve Foster Design Editor......................... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ............ Matt Gracianette Layout Staff....................Prinses Hemphill Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck Dave Grote News Editor ......................... Keith Harrison copyEdltor ................................. Frank Lipo Sports copy Editor ..................... ]eff Blumb Viewpoint Layout................ John Mennen Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Paul Cimino Features Copy Editor ............... Cat Francis Features Layout....... , .......... Kevin Williams 
Phil Wolf ND Day Editor ........................ Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor ........................Shirley Ore Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix Mary Carol Creadon P.'b h v· G · 
otograp er........................... IC uarmo Typist ........................................ Kim Tyschen 




It's about time for tax change 
Ever since he came to office, President Reagan has been receiving intense pressure from all sides to hurry and do something about the SI75 billion federal deficit that is threatening to ruin our economy. 
But in the midst of all the complaining and dire predictions something has come up that is, ifanything, even more fundamental and desperately needed than a workable scheme to slash the deficit: the tax reform plan. 
For decades, the nation has become increasingly outraged and disillusioned at a tax system that burdens the lower and middle classes while businesses get away with paying peanuts. Reports circulate that such wealthy giants as General Electric, Boeing, and Dow Chemical have managed in recent years to avoid taxes altogether. Underground dealings allow businesses to escape from billions in taxes, while billions more are spent by companies on expert loophole-finders to fill out their complex and carefully-engineered tax forms each year. In fact, the in­numerable credits, deduc­tions, exclusions and loopholes cost the federal treasury some $.270 billion this year alone. 
However, if Congress al­lows, this national disgrace will undergo a major over­haul next year. Last January, Reagan commissioned the Treasury Department to draw up a reform plan. It was published last Wednesday and will be presented to Congress early next year. The plan inarguably represents a greatly simplified, as well as a fairer, --.~~~=::...!-­system oftaxation. 
Among the proposed reforms are the following: 

•The 
16 existing tax brackets would be consolidated into three, with a I 5 percent rate for those earning $2,800-$19,300; a 25 percent rate for those earning $I9,30I-$38,IOO; and a 35 percent rate for those ear­ning more than $38,IOO. Those earning less than $2,800 would pay no tax at alL 

•Fewer 
low-income people would be taxed, because the standard deduction would be raised from $1,000 to $2,000 per person. 

•The 
two largest corporate tax breaks -the invest­ment tax credit and the accelerated depreciation schedules from the I981 tax law, which together save business some S48 billion a year -would be eliminated. 

•
Fringe benefits from employers, including health in­surance premiums, will now be counted as taxable income. 

•Interest 
on mortgage payments will remain deduct­ible, as will medical expenses and casualty losses, ifthey 


THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS 


ON All SUBJECTS -WE BUY USED BOOKS · HOURS: 

The S.A.B. Ideas & Issues CommiUee presents:
Wed., S.t. 1: Sun. 9 a.m. •7 p.m. or by appointment 

A dramatic reading
ues NU.. ••c••-• IW. NU.. 683-2888 
of Charles Dickens' *" A Chrfstmas Carol 
by Dr. Bert Hornback* * University ofMichigan Professor of English 
Saturday, December 1stat 8:00 p.m. Washington Hall 

NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2-bedroom furnished apartments 
Available ... Winter semester... convenient . .. spacious ... Laundry facilities ... plentiful parking ... superior maintenence ... 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: 
(219) 234-6647 



Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 
Inside Friday 

exceed a certain percentage of the taxpayer's income. 
•There 
will be no more deductions for state and local taxes. 

•The 
corporate tax rate will be lowered to a single rate of 33 percent from the current top rate of 46 per­cent. 


Taxpayers without investment income would be able to deduct other interest payments only up to a ceiling of $5,000 per family. 
As a result ofall this, it is estimated that 80 percent of all individual taxpayers will pay the same as or less than they currently pay (an average of 8. 5 percent less), while corporations will make up for this revenue when most loopholes are removed. The consequence will be a "revenue-neutral" plan, or one that will neither raise nor lower the total federal income from taxes. 
Fairer, simpler -who could argue, right? 
Well, obviously, a revenue-neutral tax reform is going to hurt somebody's pocketbook, painfully, and that is bound to stir strong
M/lllt:Wf111HOrr 11·30 
opposition. Alarmed corpo­
rations already have their lobbyists scrambling around Congress arguing against the reform. They contend, among other things, that it is a tax hike in disguise, that the budget deficit will have to take priority over a major revamping of the tax system, and that such a drastic change will wreak havoc with state and local tax systems. 
But none ofthese arguments is especially convincing. The simple fact is, business will have to pay more tax, while individuals pay less. 
It's about time. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 


TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 
Thanks to you ... it works ... for 
ALL 

OF US 

Unitedway
• 

The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 3 




Reagan picks waste cleanup chief to fill the top position at the EPA 
A.~soclated Press condition they not be identified, had under his predecessor, Anne Bur­
said that Thomas was Ruckelshaus' ford, said there were no circum­
WASHINGTON President choice as a successor. stances under which he would have Reagan yesterday chose Lee M. In an interview on the "CBS Mor­stayed on the job. 'Ibomas, who supervised toxic ning News," Ruckelshaus said, "I'm "It would have to be so different ­waste cleanups as a chief deputy to not fed up with anything." both in terms of my own personal Environmental Protection Agency Rep. )ames Scheuer, D-N.Y., a situation and in terms of what I administrator William D. Ruckel· vigorous critic of President Reagan's thought, in addition to what I have 
shaus, as the new head oflhe agency. environmental policies, said after already accomplished, that I could 
Ruckelshaus, meanwhile, said that Ruckelshaus' resignation was an­accomplish as well-that it's almost a reported dismay over Reagan ad­nounced Wednesday night that he never-never land," he said. ministration environmental policies had reason to believe it came be­He said he had told Reagan "my 
"didn't have anything to do" with his cause of a 30 percent cut in EPA's decision was unrelated to any other decision to resign. budget proposed to the president by job. In fact, I haven't decided what 
'lbomas, 40, has been serving as the Office of Management and I'm going to do." His resignation assistant administrator of the agency Budget. takes effect )an. 5, 1985. in charge of the "superfund" toxic But Ruckelshaus said on the NBC Ruckelshaus did not <;laborate on waste dump cleanup program. His "Today" program: "The budget has his "personal situation." But a friend nomination is subject to Senate con­been up rather markedly since I of his, speaking only on condition firmation. returned. I have no indication that that he not be identified, said Ruck­
'lbomas joined the EPA in 1983 that is going to change." He told the elshaus had told him earlier that tui­
after a two-year stint as associate CBS interviewer, "I have no indica­tion for four children in college put 
dirt·ctor of the Federal Emergency tion there's going to be any budget him" $10,000 in the hole every year, 
Management Agency. In that job, he cut ofthat magnitude." and no man can keep that up for 
managed all disaster relief efforts at In defense of the administration, long." 
FEMA and was chairman ofthe presi­Ruckelshaus has frequently pointed When he returned in May 1983 to 
dent's task force on toxic waste to a 53 percent increase in EPA's head the agency he founded in 1970 
problems at Times Beach, Mo. budget from the 1983 fiscal year to and led for three years, Ruckelshaus 
Since July 1983, 'Ibomas has been the 1985 fiscal year. Critics say this started getting paychecks that added 
serving as assistant administrator of still leaves EPA's buying power up to 569,800 a year, compared with 
Notre Dame seniorKarl Augustine tabulates the sales ofthe new
EPA for solid waste and emergency below what it was in 1973. salary and benefits as a senior vice juniperPress book Horse Died! Need Ride to Boston! at a publica­response. He served as acting dep­Ruckelshaus, who pulled the gov­president of Weyerhaeuser Corp. 
tion party yesterday in Pasquerilla West Hall. The book is
uty administrator of EPA for six ernment's largest regulatory agency totaling $221,000. Weyerhaeuser is 
available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and from mem­
months in 1983. and its 14,000 employees out of the a forest products company based in 
bers ofthejuniperPress organization.
Two sources, who spoke only on turmoil into which it had descended a Seattle suburb. 


Malloy sees nothing morally wrong in heart operations 
ByJANE BAILEY "I have no problem with inter­health of the infant, the use of tech­Day cards. People identify the per­practical routes to long-term rellef, News Staff species transplants provided there is niques which were still somewhat son with the heart instead of with the cost will come down. a good cause for the operation," said experimental and the use of an anti­the brain," said Malloy. Another consideration is that the 
The publicity of the "Baby Fac" Malloy. He stressed that animals rejection drug associated with kid­While the implantation of a patient's fully informed consent is baboon heart implant and now the should not be abused by ex­ney failure. foreign heart -animal or mechanical necessary, yet he or she may often permanent artificial heart given to perimenters. The idea of a mechanical heart -poses no moral problem in theory, be ignorant or unfairly influenced. WilHam Schroeder have brought "But when the choice is between transplant also poses no ethical many conflicts arise when the opera­Malloy also fears that procedures forth many ethical questions. the well-being of a human being and problem to Malloy. He feels it is no tion is to be performed. A major which are still experimental will be 
Notre Dame Associate Provost Fa­the existence of an animal, most different than a kidney transplant or drawback is the prohibitive cost. performed prematurely. ther Edward Malloy sees nothing people would agree with me to per­a prosthetic limb. "As long as there is great demand "There is a strong propensity for morally wrong with either type of form the surgery," said Malloy. "People see the heart as a symbol. for these procedures the cost will be doctors to make a name in the medi­
operation under certain circum­The problems with the Baby Fae It is not a source of Identity; it is a high," said Malloy. However, he cal field by being the first to use a stances. case in particular were the poor pump, despite all the Valentine's added that if the transplants become new technique," said Malloy. 
SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS 

TRAINING FOR VOLUNTEERS 

Volunteers for the Shelter for the Homeless who have not yet been trained please come to the Fatima Retreat Center Monday, December 3 at 7 p.m. Training and scheduling information will be provided. 


1 0% off for any student or faculty having 10 card 
Good through 12-31-84 Special deals available for groups of 1 0 or more for dinner 
$1.00 sandwiches in lounge nightly after 9 p.m. 


MR. D's 

1516 N.lronwood South Bend ~ 


llonOeloere 





Heart patient's progress 'amazing' 
Associated Press At his famlly's first news confer­chanica! pump Sunday to replace his 
ence since the operation, damaged heart. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. William Schroeder's oldest son, Melvin, said "I sincerely believe that if we had Schroeder took what he called "the his father was once again "joking and taken away the hope, he would have Coors cure" yesterday, getting out laughing ... A week ago he was in a crashed last Saturday," Lansing said. of bed for the first time to sit in a lot of pain and short of breath. He's Schroeder did develop one minor chair and sip the can of beer he had the old Dad again." complication yesterday when small asked for after waking up with a me­Schroeder's wife, Margaret, said areas in his lungs collapsed because chanical heart in his chest. she felt "that I have him back again of the accumulation of mucus, Lan­
Doctors and nurses who helped and that I have another chance with sing said. The condition "Is being Schroeder walk from his bed to the him. I feel like we have been given treated to prevent a more serious chair applauded when he sat down, another few days, weeks, months complication -that of pneumonia," said Robert Irvine, a spokesman for and hopefully years with him." Lansing said. the Humana Heart Institute Interna­Tuesday morning, Schroeder was Doctors said they plan a test today tional. relieved ofa breathing tube that had of the !!-pound portable drive unit 
"This is a snack. My milkshake is prevented him from talking, and he that will free Schroeder from the the meal," said Schroeder, who was told Lansing he'd "like a can ofbeer." 323-pound, $40,000 Utahdrivc sys­in "absolutely great" condition, ac­tem that now stands waist-high on cording to his increasingly confi­About 9 a.m. yesterday Schroeder the floor at the foot of his bed. dent doctors. was given a can of Coors that had Ifthe drive unit, called the Helmes 
"The progress he's made in the been tucked away in a hospital drive, proves successful in initial last 24 hours is amazing," said Dr. Al­rcfriger.ttor the night before, said tests for up to three hours a day, it lan M. Lansing, chairman ofthe heart Irvine. could eventually make Schroeder institute, in a morning news briefing. Lansing said 'Ibursday that and the artificial heart recipients 
Schroeder may be able to leave Schroeder, a 52-year-old retired who follow him entirely indepen­the intensive care unit and move quality assurance specialist from dent of the larger drive system, said into a private room as early as the Jasper, Ind., would probably not be Dr. Robert Jarvik, the heart's inven­first ofnext week, Lansing said later. alive if he hadn't been given the me-tor. 
Annual Madrigal Christmas dinner returns 
ByJULIA HEWSON harpsichord music, and other musi­nicatlons and theater, will coor­News Staff cal instruments unique to that time dinate the event. Henderson said the period. production is going to be a col­
The holiday spirit is beginning to The parlor ofHaggar College Cen­laboration of the Saint Mary's be felt at Saint Mary's, as the depart­ter is to be the scene for the dinners. theater, dance, and music depart­ment of music presents the 12th an­The players arc handling the ments. nual Madrigal Christmas dinners, decorations. A generously orna­"Everyone has come together Dec. 4 and 5. mented Christmas tree, wreaths, from the different departments and 
ornate center-pieces and special worked just like a family to put this 
All 96 seats for both performances lighting have been selected to set production together," said Hender­have already been sold out at a cost the mood. The goal is to create an son. of SI 2 each, despite limited authentic 16th-century atmosphere. This year Henderson simply publicity. This is the first year the dinners chose performers he felt were 
The cast consists of20 performers will be held in the Haggar College talented. Next year he hopes to orga­and 14 servers all donning colorful Center, and the first year that nize auditions and double the num­costumes ofthe Elizabethan era. The Clayton Henderson, chairman of the ber of nights the dinners will be evening will include court dancers, departments of music and commu-offered. 
----··­

-~---------~ 
The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 4 


New urban reforms come to China 
Assodated Press 
PEKING -Leader Deng Xiaoping calls it "socialism with Chinese char­acteristics," but for the world's most populous communist country, it's like another revolution. 
"In the past we used to eat from the same iron rice bowl, but that's been smashed and replaced with porcelain," said Peking factory worker Zhang Yaoming, 38, describ­ing how Deng's invocation to work hard and get rich has eclipsed the late Chairman Mao Tse-tung's egalitarianism. 
From now on, under reforms adopted Oct. 20 by the Communist Party Central Committee, the na­tion's 1 million urban businesses will compete in the marketplace even if"only the best survive." 
The urban reforms come five years after Deng began dismantling rural communes and permitting farmers to contract their own plots ofland to make money, a transforma­tion that has enabled some peasants to acquire cars and telephones. 
-Cicy dwellers, crammed in tiny 
apartments and living on fixed 


Lofts 
continuedfrom page 1 
said. Cameron said she would espe­cially desire a loft if she lived in a small double with little space, or in a Regina single. 
Cameron would not pay over S100 for a loft. Preferring the loft kit, she also would consider building her own loft, "if I had guys to help 
me." 
The Loft Committee is composed of the Director of Resident Life and Housing, Patricia Rissmeyer, five dorm representatives, four resident assistants and three Saint Mary's stu· dent government officers, including McCarthy, president of Holy Cross Hall. 

Coffee 
continuedfrom page 1 
more to the changing interests ofthe students and would generate inter­est in the coffee house, Wurth said. 
The idea, conceived by a commit­
tee headed by Wurth, was presented 
to the University Board of Trustees 
earlier this month. The matter was 
then given for consideration to Fa­
ther David Tyson, vice president for 
student affairs. 
Availability of space may be one 
obstacle in the way of opening the 
coffee house. The renovation of the 
LaFortune Student Center is de­
signed to make it a social hub, and a 
coffee shop in the center might be a 
j.tood addition, according to Tyson. 
The Band Building is also being considered as a possible site. 
"The administration is looking into relocating the band, and this will be a determining factor in opening something like a coffee house," said Tyson. "I think there is more space around for this sort of thing than we think. We must make the most of the social space that is now available by using it for more than one purpose.'' 
Money is also a factor. When it is decided how university funds will be distributed, the question of the feasibility of a campus coffee house will become more clear, said Tyson. 
The cost ofputting a coffee house in the Band Building is also un­known. "We have not had the cost estimated," said Tyson. "The structure ofthe building looks good, but the interior would have to be re­done, and this might cost quite a bit." 
Until these issues are settled, the question of a campus coffee house remains unanswered. 
"Right now we have ideas and we're ready to go," said Wurth. "We're just waiting for the word." 

wages, watched while millions of peasants built multi-story brick vil­las thanks to a 130-percent increase in income since 1978. 
Deng seeks to raise living stand­ards in a dash toward a modernized, consumer society, steamrolling past leftist opposition which may outlive him and haunt his successors. 
Moscow has signaled its disap­proval of the departure from Soviet­type central planning. The official Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravda contended that China's reforms would undermine Commu­nist ideology and lead to unemploy­ment and inflation as in the capitalist world. 
But the 80-year-old Deng is in a hurry to show China can absorb "some capitalism." 
That belief got him purged from high office in 1966 and 1976, but he emerged in 1978 as the overall leader of what now is a nation of 1 billion people. 
Deng wants to quadruple national output by the end ofthe century and raise annual per capita income to the equivalent of $800, from $160 last year. 
His blueprint is a far cry from Western-style capitalism: the state still runs most major industries and controls the land. 
But within this framework, go­getters from the chicken farmer to the factory manager can prosper. 
China has attracted $8 billion in foreign investment, most of it in the past five years. Cheap labor and. a potentially vast domestic market lure investors into braving a quagmire of legal, financial and bu­reaucratic hurdles. 
"To survive the new competition, we need advanced technology and advanced management," said Zhu Tanlin, director of the Peking People's Machinery Plant. Reforms at the factory include a bonus sys­tem, floating wages, management's right to hire and fire and a two-year contractfor factory boss Zhu instead ofa job for life. 
A key change is that Chinese busi­nesses will now pay taxes and keep profits to reinvest or use for employees instead of handing over all proceeds to the state. 
Ihe Dbserver-. 
Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following 
position: 

Assistant Production Managers 
Two positions available 
Responsible for: 
A. Inventory and supplies OR 
B. Equipment maintenance 
Salaried position 
No experience necessary 
Stop in and see Chris for an interview by 5 p.m. Tuesday 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 





THE ONE YOU WAIT FOR 


The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984 -page S 
• CAMPUS VIEW • • • APARTMENTS • • FOR • • FALL '85 • 
• RENTING • • reserve NOW ! • : CALL 272-1441 : 
277-1875 
::.o--.r.r.r.r.r..r..r~--=----=--J.Y"..r.r_.oa. s 


per Press announces 
i 

g ~valof §§ § 
~ ~ 
~ § 
~ HORSE DIED § ~ NEED RIDE TO BOSTON I 
A collection of Observer classifieds . . . § 
Available now ~ at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ~ Bookstores ~ 

§ ~ 
OO'""....o-'"J.Y"~,.;"'~~.r..r..r.-=--..r.r..r.-=--.-=--..r..r..r.r..r.....o--..r.r.r.r.-=--..r.r..rJOO 
POLITICAL SCIENCE MAJORS RALLY FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA. 


277-2151 
$1.00 off any pizza. $1.00 One coupon per pizza. 
Off Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 
1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend Phone 277-2151 
Expires in one week. JTC NA 125 2650 c 1984 Oom1no·s P1zza. Inc 
,. 
AP Photo


Meeting of the superpowers 
American, left, and Soviet delegations face each ing thepossibility ofhalting the spread ofnuclear other across the table as preliminary talks began arms. Wednesday at the SovietForeign Ministry concern-


Jury investigating death of baby; parents belong to religious sect 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Ind. -A Kosciusko grand jury will reconvene in two weeks to investigate the death ofan­other Warsaw infant whose parents are members of the Faith Assembly, Prosecutor Michael Miner said yes­terday. 
The investigation will be the grand jury's second into Faith Assembly-related deaths in the last two months. 
The first investigation into the death of a I 5-year-old rural Warsaw girl resulted in indictments last month against Faith Assembly leader Dr. Hobart E. Freeman and the girl's parents,James and lone Menne. 
"The Faith Assembly is a religious sect that teaches its members to shun medical care and rely solely on faith healing. 
Miner said the grand jury will reconvene at 9:30 a.m. Dec. 17 to review data collected by police in 
Feds to intentionally crash airliner in order to test experimental fuel 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Federal officials will crash an unmanned jetliner into the Mojave Desert tomorrow, hoping to prove a new fuel additive can prevent downed planes from bursting into ilames. But the airline industry fears the government is rushing plans to require domestic carriers to use the additive. 
The intentional crash of the Boeing 720 jet, delayed for months by technical problems, now is scheduled for 8 a.m. PST at Edwards Air Force Base, said Nancy Lovato, spokeswoman for the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion. 
NASA test pilot Fitz Fulton, sitting in a ground cockpit, will fly the plane by remote control to an alti­tude of about 2,000 feet, make a broad circle, then crash the jet in a 170-mph bellyflop on a gravel­covered runway. 
lbe plane will carry 73 dummies and numerous cameras and record­ing instruments. 
It will hit large blades designed to tear off its wings and rupture the fuel tanks, then crash through airport­type light standards which could ignite the fuel. 

lbe crash is intended by NASA and the Federal Aviation Administra­tion to test a variety of new safety features, including seat belts, fire­resistant windows and seat cushions and advanced flight data and cockpit voice recorders. · 
But the primary purpose is to test the new fuel additive, called anti­misting kerosene, or AMK. The ad­ditive is designed to make jet fuel become mushy like gelatin during a crash rather than spray into a mist. Misting fuel that bursts into a fireball is responsible for about 40 percent of the fatalities in "survivable" crashes -those in which passengers survive the crash impact, FAA the death of 5"i -day-old Joseph Ir­win. The baby, the son of Faith As­sembly membersJeffery and Barbara Irwin, was pronounced dead at 
10:45 p.m. Oct. 21 at Kosciusko Community Hospital by Coroner Gary Eastlund. 
A Muncie pathologist who con­ducted an autopsy last Thursday told authorities the baby died of treatable pneumonia. Eastlund said the secondary cause of death was malnutrition and dehydration. 
The pathologist conducted addi­tional tissue culture tests and con­tacted the coroner yesterday to report her findings. 
"The pathologist determined the pneumonia was caused by strep­tococcus," Miner said. 
Miner said that he decided to recovene the jury after the pat­hologist determined the death had been preventable. 
The pathologist told local aut­horities the Irwin baby had been ill spokesman John Leyden saio from Washington. 
If, as expe<.·ted, the additive prevents a fireball, the FAA plans to issue a "notke ofproposed rulemak­ing" early next year, stating it even­tually intends to require all U.S. airlines to use the additive, Leyden said. 
However, numerous technical questions remain, including whe­ther use of the additive will make jet engines less reliable and possibly cause more crashes than occur now, said Tom Tripp, technical informa­tion manager for the Air Transport Association, which represents the major U.S. carriers. 
Because jet fuel will not burn wiln the additive, jets that use It must be retrofitted with "degraders" to remove the additive before the fuel enters the engines. Only five prototype degraders have been built, and four will be destroyed In the weekend crash, Tripp said. 
from five to seven days prior to 
death. Eastlund said the mother told 
him her chlld had the snlftles and 
had lost its appetite. 
When the baby stopped breathing at 7:30p.m. Oct. 21, the mother said she used cardio-pulmonary resucita­tion. After the baby died, she told police, she took her baby to the hospital because she could not lo­cate the coroner. 
"I asked her at point-blank if she had a physician. She said 'Jesus," Eastlund said last week. 
The infant was born Oct. 1 I at the Irwin residence in Warsaw. The Ir­wins have three sons, ages 7 and un­der. 
On Oct. 1 7 the jury returned indictments against Freeman and the Mennes. Freeman appeared in Kosciusko Superior Court the fol­lowing day on charges of aiding and inducing each of these counts: reck­less homicide, criminal recklessness and neglect ofa dependent. 


The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 6 
Bolivians on strike, military on alert 
Associated Press 
LA PAZ, Bolivia-Students blocked city streets and government workers marched in the capital yes­terday, the second day of a nationwide general strike. The armed forces remained on alert and peasants threatened to cut into food supplies by tying up major roads. 

The strike, called by the Bolivian Workers Central Organization to demand wage increases and such measures as price controls to curb I the I,500 percent annual inflation I rate, appeared to have strong sup­I port from Bolivia's 2.5 million 
r 
workers.

I 
All but essential services were

r 
halted. Industries were idle, as were the tin mines that bring in the bulk of

~ 
Bolivia's hard currency earnings. Most government offices, schools, factories, banks and some stores were closed. Public transportation in La Paz was reduced. 
Police surveillance was stepped up, but authorities did not move against the demonstrators. 
The Peasants Federation threatened to blockade key roads in support of the strike as early as today, preventing food from reach­ing the cities. 
Clarification 
In Wednesday's article on the meeting of the Hall Presidents' Council, the description of "The Bobs," was not clea·r. The San Francisco band performs New Wave music without instrumen­tal accompaniment. The band will be in concert at Senior Bar tomorrow night beginning at 9:30p.m. 






I i v e 
In the capital, a city of I million, students blocked some streets with bricks and rocks in support of the 
strike,  and  striking  government  
employees  marched  through  the  
downtown area.  

Gen. Simon Sejas, commander in chief of the armed forces, warned Wednesday the military would "take all the necessary measures" to main­tain order but would "remain fully respectful ofthe constitution." 
Bolivia has had I89 military coups in its I 54 years as an independent nation. 
Government and opposition leaders have said the strike, coupled with growing social unrest caused by the nation's economic crisis, poses a serious threat to Bolivia's two-year-old democracy. 
Television stations throughout Bolivia suspended operations Wed­nesday, and most radio stations went off the air yesterday after their workers joined the walkout. 
The strike, which follows a nine­day walkout suspended a week ago by the same workers' group, is cos­ting Bolivia an estimated S1 1 million a day in lost production, Planning Minister Rene Fernandez said. 


Sen. Robert Dole, R-Kan., the newly-elected daughter, Robin, Wednesday on Capitol Hill. Mrs. Senate majority leader, poses with his wife, Trans­Dole holds a dog named "Leader," which she pre­portation Secretary Elizabeth Dole, left, and his sented to her husband. 
for reservations 

Lunch ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00p.m. Closed 
concert 

General meeting lor tflose interested in helping with the 
Multiple Sclerosis Fund Drive 
Tues.• Dec. 4th 7-8pm Little Theatre. Lafortune 
Help Notre Dame win a free MTVconcerti 
1-----EveryoneWelcome!~~-~.,..;. 
No J.D. required 

ALUMNI SENIOR BAR 
DECEMBER 1,1984 9PM-3AM 

--------.-------------------­

~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t________________F_ri-da~y,N_o_ve_mb-er_3_0,_19-84--pa-ge-7 


What is the purpose of skin-deep I,eauty? 
Recently I had the opportunity to spend some time with a beautiful young lady. Her beauty only became evident when I was able 10 sec beyond her lipstick and make-up which had originally distracted me enough to look at her face. 
I have never understood the rationale for women to adorn themselves with all kinds of suppossc:dly bc:auti-c:nhancing clothes, make­up, jewc:lry and the like. Indeed, I nearly al-
Jurgen Brauer 
reasoned culture 
ways felt make-up to be cover-up. And so it is with many things. I like a wooden desk better than a metal one. I enjoy natural food better than chemically treated food. I prefer a natural lake over an artificial one and so on. And I en­joy looking at people. 
Many years ago I suddenly realized that men and women act quite different from their male and female counterparts in the animal world. In the animal world it is often the male who is multi-colored and adorned rather than the female. Just look at the ducks in the lakes! L<x>k at the peacock's feathers or the lion's mane. The males court the females. In human life thing.-; seem strangc:Iy reversed. (And ap­parently always have been.) Some time later it struck me that artists of old painted their sub­jects just as God is said to have created them ­
naked. No fancy shoes, no lipstick, no earrings. 
Perhaps a woman should continue this column and tell us why women adorn them­selves the way they do. But if I were to guess then I would simply say that women want to look attractive and appealing. Simple. Indeed, there seems to be a social consensus accor­ding to which women, in particular the young, unmarried ones just have to look that way while men do not have to. And that consensus appears to hold over all social classes and 
races in this and many a country. It is almost 
like a universal cultural trait. And yet, I found, 
that upon reflection many people would ad­
mit to the distinction between an attractive 
and a beautiful woman and to the desirability 
of beauty rather than attractiveness. The dif­
fc:rnce between the two lies, of course, not so 
much with the observed as with the observer. 
It is not the one looked at but the on-looker 
who has to make up his mind as to what he 
prefers. And as I just stated, it seems to me that 
many people admit their preference for 
beauty. This begs the question: why does soci­
ety still expect its female members to look 
outwardly attractive even if that need for at­
tractiveness should go at the expense ofsome, 
say, inherent beauty? And by the same token, 
what sense does it make for companies to sell 
their 198 5 models (whether cars or fashions) 
in the Fall of 1984 other than to have their 
customers enjoy an image of having acquired 
not only the latest but actually the future of 
attractiveness? 
The purpose of these columns, as you know, is not to answer questions; it is merely to raise them: For me, at any rate, attractive­ness for its own sake does not make sense. It is not reasonable to seek after it. This perhaps begs the question: what do I think of the "Women/Men ofNotre Dame Calendars"? Let me answer this way: A lady, apparently think· ing of herself as beautiful (in the sense of at­tractive) once approached Bernard Shaw at a party and said during the course of the con­versation (which Shaw thought a rather dull one): "Wouldn't it be nice for us to marry, Mr. Shaw? Just think of the children we would have. They would have your impressive brain and my fine looks." To which Shaw, who was not considered handsome, is reputed to have answered: "And what If the children turn out to be the other way 'round?" 
jurgen Brauer is an economics graduate student at Notre Dame and a regular View­point columnist. 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admm1stration of either 1nst1tution. The news is reported as accurately and as ObJectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tor1al Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and the free expression of varying opin1ons on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Notre Dame needs a 
viable radio station 
Have you ever turned on WVFI-AM and listened for a while? Ifyou have, you have listened to some dedicated students attempting to produce an interesting format of modern music. That is, if you can hear anything through the static of the current-carrier transmission. Or ifyou can pick up the station at all in your dorm. 
Low listener ratings caused by bad reception have plagued the station since its beginning. This is not the fault of the student workers at the station, however. They do their best to broadcast the best possible programs with the resources at their disposal. But the present current-carrier system is inade· quate. 
Students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's deserve better. 
First, both campuses could benefit from the addition ofa dynamic source of news and information. The Obseroer has the responsibility to report on impor­tant events and issues, but only a dynamic media source such as a radio station can give up-to-the-minute information. 
Moreover, a vibrant student-run radio station would provide training within a professional context for those interested in mass communication --a field where practical experience is vitally important. As a student-run business, a radio station could also provide educational opportunities to business majors as well as students in communications. 
Finally, a campus radio station with a large student audience can contribute to an improvement in the overall social life of the campus. After all, listening to the radio is a regular part of student life. limiting students to outside stations represents a lost opportunity both to serve and to unify the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
The Notre Dame administration does not have a commitment to give its students a decent student radio station. It is unwilling to allocate the funds and to hire the people necessary for operating a station capable of serving the interests ofthe community. 
When it was announced last semester that the student-run radio station would apply for an FM license and acquire the necessary equipment and staffto produce first-rate programming, the campus waited in anticipation. But these ambitious plans never materialized. Instead, the call letters were changed and plans were made to transmit in AM-stereo which can be picked up only on specially-converted receivers, according to Kurt Holzberlein, the new station manager at WVFI-AM. 
What happened? Why did the University's supposed commitment dissolve into a superficial change in call letters? 
The University's vacillation on this important issue reflects poorly on the administration's attitude toward student concerns -· an attitude which many students believe to be condescending and uncaring. 
Money should be spent on the equipment and personnel needed to make WVFI a viable radio station, one in which the the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community can take pride. 
-The Observer 

P.O. Box Q 
at all. Ask someone at the Bookstore If they

LaFortune record store 
have gotten the new Ramones album in, and they will think you are referring to Julio In·

should be patronized 
glesias's backing band. 

Dear Editor: 
Before Thanksgiving break, I was talking to the lady who operated the student record store, and she informed me that she would no longer be operating it after break. She said it was going to close because business was slow and because she had gotten anotl;ter job. This depressed me because that left the bookstore as the only place within walking distance where I could buy records. 
As a freshman, I rarely get to the malls, and so I am stuck with the bookstore. I have noticed that it takes the bookstore quite a long time to get some new albums, ifthey get them 
Editorial Board 
Editor-m·Chlef . .... . Bob Vonderheide Managing Edlfor .. . Mark Worscheh News Editor ...... . . Sarah Hamilton News Editor ..... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor ... Anne Monastyrsk1 Sports Ed1tor . .... . . Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor .. . . .. Dave Grote Features Editor .. . . .. Mary Healy Photo Editor . ... . Pete Laches 
Well. to my surprise and delight, I see that someone is re-opening the student record store. This store is a valuable help to the music fan, as it will order just about any record you want, and still charge less than the bookstore. Most campus towns have at least one g()(xl record store that stocks harder-to-find albums and appeals to college tastes, so we should be glad that we have a semi-equivalent. Notre Dame students should take advantage of this service because next time, maybe someone will not be around to re-open it. 
Tim Adams ZabmHa/1 
Department Managers 
Business Manager. . . .... Dave Taiclet Controller. . . Maripat Horne Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan Circulation Manager. . . Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager. Kevin Williams Production Manager. . . . . Chris Bowler Project Manager .... Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
1 
,l 
, 
,
,
,
, 
1 
1 

Accent 
Opening rare and forgotten pages 
by Karen Russell 
features staff writer 
E
very day thousands ofstudents
r 
go into the Memorial Ubrary. As
r 
they walk past the offices located offthe main concourse, many prob­ably give no more than a thought to the one labeled Department of Rare Books and Special Collections. Yet this contains some of the most interesting and valuable collections of this university. 
The actual value of the collec­tions is not known, says David Sparks, the man in charge of the department. There needs to be a new appraisal done in order to determine this since values are constantly changing. Additionally, 
r 
the size of the department con­
r 
tinues to grow with the acqui­r sition of material. This acqusition is
r 
in the form ofgifts since the depart­r ment has no budget. 
The rare book collection is large and growing larger because there are many books which qualify as rare. There are many factors which, combined, determine the rare status ofeach piece. These factors are: category, date, geographic provenance, subject matter, and language. Because there are so many factors involved, there is no standard by which to judge which book in the collection is the rarest. 
Abook does not have to be first Games Research collection. This consists ofbooks, pamphlets, train­ing and game films, programs, and 
much more. 

Many additions to the collections are not as planned as they take the form of gifts received through wills. Alumni and other visitors wander in and realise that they have some­thing in their possession which is not in the collections. Other donors found valuable items while cleaning out the basement or attic and of­fered these to the University. Not all offers can be accepted due to fac­tors such as work which would be needed to enter them into the collections, manpower available to do the work, and restrictions on use which may accompany the accep­tance of the material. 
It is desirable ·for coJlectors to place books and other materials in the care of this University depart­ment. This is because they provide a domain protected from theft, an environment regulated in tempera­ture and humidity, and controlled use, which regulates use of the material to within the department's 
rooms. 

An alumnus, john Bennet Shaw, has given a collection of many editions ofCatholic authors. Chief among these is the exhaustive col­lection ofwork by Gilbert Keith Chesterton. Exhaustive means that he collected every edition and every variation ofeach 


l.Sti/1 on Fire, Aztec Camera 

T 
2. Two Tribes, Frankie Goes to Hollywood 
3.Tenderness, General Public 
4.Like a Virgin, Madonna

0 5. Going Down to Liverpool, Bangles 6. Another Big Day in the World, Eurogliders 7./f/tHappensAgain, UB40 8.Pride, U2 9.Big injapan, Alphaville lO.(What) In the Name ofLot•e, Naked Eyes 
Tired of the old routine? 

Join 
The Features Department is accepting applications for: 
• Features copy editor 
For more information contact MaJY Healy atthe Observer office, 239-5313 

offthe printing press to be consid­ered rare. However, there is a leaf of the Gutenberg Bible in the collec­tion. There are also beautifully illuminated Medieval manuscripts and Renaissance works, some of which are rewriting ofancient texts. There are works older than these as well as modern typed and holographed material. 
The rare book collection is the major element of the depart-ment, but not the only one as there are 16 collections total. Of these 16, only four are catalogued. These are: the rare book collection, the Dante collection ofFather Zahm, the Green collection on botany, and the Notre Dame collection. The other materials are accessible through the use offinding lists. 
The Notre Dame collection is constantly growing. It consists ofall books and articles published by University faculty, as well as news­papers, magazines, playbills, and official documents published by the University. This collection is stored in the basement ofthe Ubrary and is available' upon request, as is all material within the department. 
The collection that receives the most traffic and which is also con­stantly growing due to contribu­tions, is the International Sports and 

Friday, November 30, 1984 -age 8-9 
My own worst enemy 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 
ely God 

T
he best and worst ofObserver 
Classifleds have been published 
as a book. It's a clever idea. and if 
the book sells well, maybe Juniper 
Press could publish the best and 
worst of"Letters to the Editor" as a 
sequel. ''Letters" are the most inter· 
esting section ofany paper, if 
they're mean and bitchy. Most 
published letters seem to be writ· 
ten In anger. '!be expressions of 
rage in the Observer nag at my 
Catholic conscience. You can tell 
the good guys from the bad guys by 
reading the letters. Here is an angry 
letter I've written to myself. 
'Inc countdown to judgment is beginning. Students are getting ready for exams. The world is pre­paring for Christmas. I'm starting on a crash program to gt·t in shape for a medkal checkup. On Ike. 27, I'll stand naked and trembling before my Nt·w York doctor. He'lllisten to my hcarthcat, put me on the scales, t'hcck the blood pressure, and gt·nerally poke around. 1-lt''ll send me to St. Vinccnt's hospital where lab technicians will ask for a urine ~peel men. take samples of my blood, and dress me in a silly hospi· ml gown for x-rays. 
'Inc doctor will not be pleased with me. "You've put on weight~" ht"ll say. "Arc you still smoking?" It wouldn't do any good to lie. He'll ~cc the nicotine stains on my lungs. Six years ago, when I lost I 00 pounds, he was proud of me. A year ago, wht·n he found that through t"arcfulliving, I had reduced an enlarged heart to its normal size, he offt·rt·d me respect and praise. Now he's going to be bitterly disap­
pointed at tht· patient who wa.~ once his hero. It will probably ruin his< :hrlstmas to find I've let myself go. 
Mir:tde-s are possiblt'. You, so far behind in your studies, believe in miracles. You're sure that a month ofcramming can turn a playboy into a scholar, a playgirl into an intellectual. The way to a miracle is through a crash program, or a trade­offshould be possible. IfI give up smoking 3 packs of unfiltered cigarettes a day, he should be tolerant ofa little extra weight. IfI walk a hundred miles a day for the next four weeks, he should he con­vinced I'm sincere. Asteady diet of black toa.~t. coffee, and a little fruit 


should keep him from guessing I'm having trouble buckling my belt. Or I could tell him to go to the devil, and that I don't want my checkup until Easter. 
There are always countdowns to judgment. Teachers check up to see if you're playing their little game. Bosses want to know what they're paying you for. Confessors wish to walk through your soul. Parents get inquisitive about your lifestyle. Probation officers phone to ask if you're keeping your nose clean. God sets up a throne of judgment where He'll separate the sheep from the goats. 
Agreat question oflife is: if you had it to do over, would you do it differently? Would you study more, drink less, or go in for aerobics? Would you date blondes instead of redheads, or buy Coors in place of Michelob? When a.~ked ifyou'd make the same mistake twice, the most boastful answer is "Hell, yes." The biggest lie is: "I have no regrets." The most foolish song is Sinatra's "I did it my way." I used to cry over spilled milk until I was old enough to realize that even the mistakes have grace in them. This is not a gospel I'd preach to criminals in prison. 
We're on the edge ofa hitter winter when thousands ofour countrymen are homeless, and 
millions are dying ofstarvation overseas. My worst sin is wanting to be comfortable; my gravest cop-out is: "Don't blame me." Drinking Manhattans and sucking on cigarettes is no crime, I tell myself, brushing past New York bag ladies and street people on my way to dinner. Three hours later, on the walk home, after a heavy meal at the Russian Tea Room, I notice the bag ladies are sleeping near the steam pipe out of the subway. The beggars are making a supper out ofhot bagels bought with change from a street vendor. I've got troubles of my own: I badly need an Alka Seltzer, and I'mm wheezing from smoker's cough. 
The doctor will be my hanging judge. He'll believe me when I tell him I did it my way. My mistake was not doing it his way. His hard, pro­fessional eyes will stare at the unneeded flesh, and he'll shrug his shoulders in contempt for a spine­less jellyfish. Tomorrow, I promise him, will be the first day of the rest of my life. "You're gambling with your chance to live," he'll answer. "How many more chances are you going to take with your heart? You're your own worst enemy." 
Even the dear God Himselfcan't help you when you're your own worst enemy. Even the holy angels can't unlock the door of your will­power. As your own worst enemy, you should join the street people eating bagels, or lie down in the street beside the bag ladies who have lost faith in miracles, and die from discouragement. 
Self-disgust saves as many souls as love does, when it metabolizes into courage and humility. One of the all-time heroes of the season is the miser who went on a crash program ofcharity after spending Christmas Eve looking at the ghosts in his life. "A journey ofa thousand miles begins with a single step," John Kennedy reminded us; ifnecessary, it begins with crawling on one's hands and knees. I can be a saint or a scholar, if I want to, or a slim-Jim or beanpole wearing size 32 pants. Out oflove of Christ, I can let the street people ride my coat-tails. Even on a crash program, I shouldn't want to make the journey alone as long as there are children going to be hungry in the world. 
December is famous for its feast of mercy. For some ofus, it is also a month ofjudgment. I'm angry with myself for being stupid. There's no need ofgoing to the doctor for a scolding I can give myself. 


Dr. Bert Hornback will be giving a dramatic interpretation of Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol. See Weekend column at right for details. 
•MOVIES Ifyou miss the M*A*S*H 4077th, don't despair. The K ofC will be presenting the movie "M*A*S*H" tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 
9: I 5, and II:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission is $1. 
Tonight, the Friday Night Film Series will present "Zoot Suit." This 1981 film is loosely based on the unsolved 1942 Los Angeles Sleepy Lagoon murder mystery and the highly publicized zoot suit riots one year later. The film begins at 7:30 in the Annenburg Auditorium and admission will be S2.50. 
•MUSIC 
This Sunday, the Notre Dame Chorale, the Notre Dame Brass En· 
semble, and Craig Cramer, University Organist, will present a con­
cert at 8 in Sacred Heart Church. This will be the first in a series of 
three Sunday evening concerts sponsored by the Notre Dame Office 
of Ministry and the department of music during the sea.~on of Ad· 
vent. All concerts will be free. 
•THEATRE 
The long awaited Notre Dame/Saint Mary's lbeatre presentation 
of "The Dramatist" is finally here. Tonight and tomorrow night the 
performance will be at 8 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. All seats are 
reserved. Call the Box Office at 284-4626. 
Dr. Bert Hornback, professor of English at the University of Mic· 
higan, will be giving a dramatic interpretation ofCharles Dickens'A 
Christmas Carol tomorrow evening at 8 in Washington Hall. Admis­
sion is free. 
If you're in the mood to regress a little this weekend or if you're 
simply ready for some Christmas cheer, the Ladies of Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's "Fun Factory" and "No Strings Attached" Puppet 
Troup will sponsor two special holiday puppet performances tomor­
row. The 10 a.m. performance will feature "The Elves and The 
Shoemaker," "The Holiday Switch" and "Zlateh the Goat." At 11: I 'i, 
"The Little Lost Angel," "The Christmas Story" and "The Mouse In 
The Manger" will be performed. Tickets for the show are $1 at the 
door. 
•ART 
The exhibitions, "Mestrovic: Works from the Ivan Mestrovic 
Estate" and "Christmas Themes by Ivan Mestrovic," will be on dis­
play in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries at the Snite until Dec. 30. 
"Renaissance Drawings from The Ambrosiana" will be on display 
at the Snite until Dec. 30. This exhibition, organized by the Medieval 
Institute, includes 80 drawings selected from the Bibliotica 
Ambrosiana's collection in Milan, Italy. 
Hours at the Snite are I 0 a.m. to 4 Tuesday through Friday; 1 to 4 
p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8. 
An exhibit by Tom Meun.inck, "Spheres and Platters," in conjunc­tion with the Saint Mary's Regional Student Exhibition, will continue through Dec. 13 in the Hammes Gallery of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. Gallery hours are 9:30-noon and 1-3 p.m. on Monday rhru Friday and 1·3 p.m. on Sunday. 
•NAZZ 
Tomorrow night, Ora Jones and Michael Hall will grace the Nazz with a vocal and instrumental performance from 9· I I. Music by Billy Joel, Culture Club, Stevie Wonder, and more will he featured in the 
duo's act. 
•DANCE 
The Beaux Arts Ball returns! The masquerade hall will begin 
tonight at 9 in the Architecture Building. Tickets available presale 
and at the door. 
Tonight from 9 to 1 in the Chautauqua ballroom there will be the "Funky Reggae Party II," sponsored by Ground Zero and the Notre Dame Windsurfing Club. Tomorrow night from 9 to 2, also at Chautauqua, there will be a CBS Record Party sponsored by WVFI Studio at Saint Mary's. Admission is l> I at the door. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
Tomorrow night will be Undergrad Club Night at the Senior Bar from 9·3. A highlight of the evening will be a concert at 9:30 by the "new wave a capella" quartet from San Francisco,"The Bobs." 
Starting tomorrow the South Bend Pottawatomi Zoo wlll be presenting "Zooltide" nightly from 5:30·8:30 until Dec. 9. The event will feature a wonderland of lights and decorations throughout the zoo. Zoo happenings will include Children's lbeatre (6:30 and 7:30 nightly), strolling carolers, live Nativity, new reindeer and more. Admission will be $1 for adults and S.50 for kids. 
•MASS 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father David Schlaver at 5:1 5 (Saturday night vigil). Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m mass. FatherJohn Dunne at 10:30. Father Mark Poorman at 12:15. 
Spedal to The Observer 
T
he Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 'Ibeatrc is currently working on "'Inc Dramatist," a Restoration comedy written by Frederick Reynolds. Over I 'i students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are working on the production, endur· ing every seventeenth-century prop from corsets to snuff boxes. 
Written in I 790, and never per­formed in this country, the play is a slice ofdecadent daily life in the sixteenth-century. lbe play boa.~ts a hilarious series of love Intrigues, inventions and fopperies. 
'Inc action hegins with the artful activities of Lady Waitfort, (Elizabeth Bottum), a selfish old bat whose only desire is romance and money. Lady Waitfort manipulates every person and situation within the play in order to accomplish her goal: an intrigue with the handsome, young man in town, Neville, (Bill Boraczek). 
Alas, as in l'Very story, love is 
Dramatist tickles the sensibilities 
crossed and Lady Waitfort is undone by an incredible series of obstacles: Neville is hopelessly in love with Louisa, (Jane Anne Ried­ford ), a pretty young woman of truth and beauty; Lord Scratch, (Ave Green), a bumbling idiot from the country, is in love with Lady Waitfort, and, lo and behold, we've got the Dramatist· Vapid, (John Sheehy), a "dramatic maniac" who encourages every ridiculous diffi­culty in order to get material for his plays. 
"The Dramatist" promises to tax your sensibilities and delight your wits. The production is directed by Saint Mary's professorJulieJensen. This Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production Is entered in the American College 'Jbeatre Festival, a national competition among collegiate theatres, and will be judged by a panel of theatre professionals during its run. Perfor­mances are scheduled for Nov. 30, Dec. I, 6, 7, and 8 at 8:00p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are available by calling the O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office at 284-4626. 
I I I I 
I 
I I I 
Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's Soccer Club will be holding an indoor soccer clinic on Sunday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone who is interested may attend. · The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Squash Clubwill be playing 
host to a tournament today and tommorow. There will be two divi· sions, beginner and intermediate, in the free tournament. For more information, call Sean at 277-3953 or Bill at 283-2302. -The Obseroer 
Sixteen ROTC basketball teams from six 
states will participate tomoTTow' and Sunday in the second annual ROTC tournament at Stepan Center. The tournament, which is sponsored by the Notre Dame Army ROTC drill team, features repre­sentatives from each of Notre Dame's ROTC units as well as teams from Illinois, Kentucky and Miami (Ohio). Admission to the games is free. -Ibe Obseroer 
Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 10 
The NVA table-tennis tournament will begin Monday. Players should call the NVA office at 239-6100 to find out when and where their matches are scheduled. The first two rounds of the tournament will be completed before Christmas break. -Ibe Obseroer 
The NVA Weight Training Clinic, which features Notre Dame strength and conditioning coach Gary Wei!, is scheduled for Monday and Wednesday at 7 p.m. Anyone who is in­terested may register at the NVA office or call 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be dearly written. -The Obseroer 
Saint Mary's Aquatic Club set to hold swim-a-thon 
Tomorrow while most of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses are fast asleep, the Saint Mary's Aquatic Club will be trying to paddle its way into the Guinness Book of World Records. The newly formed dub, under the supervision ofSaint Mary's swimming coach Dan Flynn, will be holding the first col­lege swim-a-thon in an attempt toes­tablish the record for the world's longest women's relay swim. 
The swim-a-thon will begin at 
10:00 tomorrow morning at the pool in Regina Hall. The dub mem­bers have set a goal of swimming continuously for 2 5 miles in order to make it into the record books. Flynn estimates it will take the women eight hours to reach their goal of 25 miles. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame olfin:. located on tht: third floor of Laforrunt: Studt:nt Center, accepts classified advertising from l) a.m. until 4 p.m .. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's offin·. locatt·d on tht: third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from ll:~O p.m. unril ~p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classiticds is ~ p.m. All classifieds must bt: prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda·. 
NOTICES FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272­1858 TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-81117 WOADPAOCESSING AND TYPING. 272-8827.  LOST: ONE GREEN I.D. FOLDER WITH I.D., DETEX. PA LICENSE, AND MASTER CARD; ON MONDAY AT LUNCHTIME (EITHER IN NORTH DINING HALL OR EN ROUTE TO BADIN). IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL LEANNE AT x3622, OR BRING BY 232 BADIN HALL. THANKS! LOST: ONE GREEN 1.0. FOLDER WITH I.D., DETEX, PA LICENSE, AND MAS­TERCARD. THESE ITEMS OF EX­TREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE WERE OUITE STUPIDLY LOST ON MONDAY,  f0< sale! 76'VW RABBIT great conditions fO< info call 1459 MUST SELL!!! THREE·WAY PI~EER BOOKSHELF SPEAKERS 90 WPC, $90 CALLJIM2n-<J191 FOR SALE PIONEER STEREO RECEIVER SX450, 22WPC, GREAT COND, STEAL AT $40 CALL JIM 2n· 0191 ...................... FOR SALE JVC COMPUTER CON­TROLLED CASSETTE DECK, AUTO  ... and on his NEXT date. Kevin Flynn is going to see THE DRAMATIST opens FRIDAY MARY BETH Good Lucl< on the LSAT! We know you can do II. Hope you are ready to party Saturday. SUNDAY IS JOE WHY-NOTS 21st BIRTHDAY. SO SATURDAY HE IS GOING TO GET WASTED. HE GETS HORNY WHEN HE GETS WASTED !! STUDENT LIFE AS STUDENTS LIVE IT .  H Quote of the week part IV: "CONFUSION is our teacher." TONIGHT, Find out to what extant pas· sion will hurry him. THE DRAMATIST PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB: DMdllna I« ordartng PMC t-ahlrta Ia thla SUNDAY. You muat brtng your money ($5 101' PMC mambara, $6 I« general public) to 341 K..,.n and or­dar In paraon. Shlrta will be dllllrlbutad 1-2 -'<afrom now.  Quinner is a MAN GOD SARAH, MARIA AND CATHERINE: I CHANGED MY MIND AND DECIDED TO RETALIATE VIA THE PERSONALS. YOUR STEREOTYPE OF THE TYPICAL DOMER MAN IS SO INCREDIBLY WRONG. I'M WILLING TO ADMIT THAT THE GIRLS IN WALSH ARE MORE THAN SORORITY SISTERS WHO ARE LOOKING FOR HUSBANDS. PLEASE GIVE NOTRE DAME GUYS THE SAME COURTESY. THANKYOU. LOVE, "THE EXCEPTION" WHO WAS ABUSED IN  
PRO.TYPE CNer 14 yrs. of experience. Computerized service. Dissertations, law papers, student papers 2n-5833. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009  NOV 25 AT LUNCHTIME IN C LINE OF NORTH DINING HALL, OR EN ROUTE TO BADIN HALL. IF FOUND, PLEASE, OH PLEASE CALL LEANNE MICHELLE AT X3622 OR COME BY 232 BADIN HALL. YOUR COMPLIANCE IS VERY MUCH APPRECIATED!! LOVE,  REVERSE, ONE YEAR OLD. EXCEL· LENT CONDITION. $160 CALL JIM 2n­0191 FOR SALE: NO JACKETS AND RUGBY SHIRTS. MAKE GREAT GIFTS. CALL JOEAT3100  HORSE DIED: NEED RIDE TO BOS­TON HURRY!! IT'S ON SALE NOW! YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD NO NOVICE CREW NO NOVICE CREW  3CIDER STOMP!!! CIDER STOMP!!! CIDER STOMP!!!  THE WINDY CITY. Oh (expletive deleted)!! My shirt's on fire!!  
TYPING Jacl<ieBoggs 684-8793  LEANNE FELLIN. LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME BACKPACK  FOR SALE ONE-WAY AIRLINE TICKET FROM NY-LAGUARDIA TO S.BEND AIRPORT. JAN 13. ONLY $85!! CALL MAUREEN 2666  Philly,PA QUESTION: What happened to our ad in the Observer? Congrats to: Mere, Jim, Tim, Clay, Rich, Trey, Paul, Joe, Bridget  Folk Dancing and Fun! 8pm-1 am TONIGHT!!!  O.K. Babes, You won this time. But, when you least expect it ... expect it. HA HA HA HA HA !!!!  
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES 277-6045 PICKUP AND DELIVERY GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,5511 -$50,553/r-t. Now Hiring. Your AIM. QIIIIOS-QNIOOO, Ext. 11-11834. LOST/FOUND I LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH MIS­SOURI ID. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON SAT. PLEASE CONTACT 3085. TO WHOEVER TOOK MY COAT FROM THE 2-7 PARTY AT EAST MARION STREET ON FRIDMY NIGHT: PLEASE RETURN IT!! I DON'T WANT TO FREEZE All WINTER LONG. I AM OF­FERING A REWARD FOR IT'S RETURN TO MY POSESSION, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. IT'S A STRIPED ABOVE THE KNEE WOOL COAT, SIZE 9. CALL NORMAAT28061FYOU CAN HELP ME. LOST A BLACK LEATHER RUGBY JACKET WITH A WALLET ON SENIOR  IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL THE FRIDAY BEFORE THE PENN STATE GAME. IT HAS MY CALCULATOR, CAL­CULUS BOOK. AND TWO NOTEBOOKS. IF YOU MISTAKENLY PICKED IT UP, PLEASE CALL BETSY AT2804 FOUND: MONEY, MONEY, MONEY! I -you drop -money on the flool' outalde the chemiC81 engl..-lng offlce In FI1Zplltrick, but you dlup­~Into -l.tl80fMWIIereand 1 couldn't lind you. I atlll have the money, eo If you want It call me 1111504 and claim 11. I know Whlll you look like eo no need I«~ toC811. FOUND: 1 HUMPTY DUMPTY STUFFED ANIMAL IN VERY POOR CONDITION,OUTSIDE PASO. EAST. LOOKS LOST AND BEWILDERED AND SEEKING OWNER IF HE'S YOURS CONTACT PATTY RILEY AT 4568. WANTED SW FLA Ride horne needed fO< Xmas  FOR SALE: 1970 MUSTANG RUNS GOOD $280 13" COLOR TV $235 CALL TOM288-()9()5 TICKETS NEED MONEY FOR CHRISTMAS? SEU ME YOUR 2 lU-ND B-BALL GA TIX. PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 23S.. 5303. Need 4 IU tix.Stu 0< GA. b< kevin at 3457. MY DAD WILL PAY BIG $ FOR 2 TICK· ETS TO THE I.U. GAME, CALL TOM · 1587 I NEED INDIANA BASKETBALL TICK· ETS. CALL JIM 2015. NEED 2 I.U. BASKETBAU TICKETS. PLEASE CAU JOHN AT 2n-6554 ......................... ··························· I NEED two GA Of student tix to the Indiana hoops game Paul2318 I NEED INDIANA TIXS.272-6306  SEANYCAKES (INDI!)-EVEN IN JEANS,T-SHIRT,BLOODSHOT EYES,UNSHAVEN FACE AND TOUSELED HAIR-YOU ARE A GOD.(DAPPER TOO)-LOVE ME. THE OBSERVER NEEDS SAINT MARY'S DAY EDITOR FOR M·W·F FOR NEXT SEMESTER. THIS IS A PAID PO­SITION. DON'T MISS OUT!!! FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 23&-5303. We're bad<... " I M P 0 A TE D " from the Architecture Building Beaux A r Is B a II 1 9 8 4 Friday, November 30th, 9:00 pm, the Arkie Building pre sale & at the door L I M I T E D T I C K E T S ... the mysterious 4N lives on .. LITTLE BOY BLUE-Regrets? I've had a few ... And this one applies to you: UnfO<­tunately, I do remember That night in late September Except it was October. When I was anything but sober. Excuses not I try to make, But that was definitely a mistake. Affected by the liquO< I thought you were an 8 But I was hoping on a scale of 10 Rather than in tons of weight! -MMCF  Canter for Social Concerns Admission: Food to share. CIDER STOMP!!! CIDER STOMP!!! CIDER STOMP'!! Happy Birthday, Honey! (almost) Now that you're legal 10< EVERYTHING, what should we do about it? I'm having a big Mac attacl<! Assuming we saved the best fO< last and this is your last b-day here, I hope it's everything you ever wanted' I love you, my teddy bear! ·YOUR gi~ Mares, To a very special girt, I would like to wish a very special happy twentieth birthday. Have a great day, and I hflPd that we stay together always. It would be nice getting gray together. Love always, Timmy I'M HOOKED, I'M HOOKED, I'M HOOKED-HAHAI-jAHI  Mellon WIIB/6V81 happened to Paper Lace? Whatever happened to Chris Needles??? QUOTE OF THE DAY; When this side is empty/ slide door to the left until locked. ·MARATHON TISSUES· HAPPY BIRTHDAY PEGGLES! LOVE, YOUR FAVORITE DOMERETTE MIC· HELLE DAN, A VARSITY ATHLETE, FLASHES HIS LETTER JACKET AT THE SAINT MARY'S LIBRARY BUT HE IS STILL LONELY. WE HOPE THIS AD HELPS DAN. PLEASE CALL 2704 TO SHOW YOU CARE GOOD LUCK TO GONZO, ROSCO, HOMER, AND WALLY. MAY THEY RISE TO NEW HEIGHTS TONIGHT. HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHOW QUEEN' We've met 'mine' and 'yours', what about 'hockey'? At least YOU met Fr. Keller! Work, me work? YOU'RE the reason I  
- SUICIDE STOMP FRIDAY, NOV 16. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 234-7412. SURESHOT 35MM CAMERA LOST ON THE FIELD AFTER THE PENN ST. VIC­TORY PLEASE HELP ME SEE MY OCT. BREAK PHOTOS ON THE FILM.CALL ANYTIME SMC-5165 OR ·5256! THANKS! I FOUND A NICE RING AT THE BARS THURS.11/15. CALLALANAT3267TO IDENTIFY. Found: Khaki Sll8p on hood with brown plad, wool lining on the football fiekl after Penn State game. Csll Matt ]2n-6463 fO< return. IF YOU FOUND A SILVER MENS SEIKO LCD WATCH IT'S MINE. MOST LIKELY LOST ON NORTH QUAD NEAR KEENAN HALL. PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT3281. REWARD!$$$.  break. My last final ends at 12:30 on the 19th. Please call Bob at 2037. Wanted. Armorer fO< University of Notre Dame varsity fencing team. Able to work with small tools and mechanically and electrically irdined. Please contact Mike DeCicco at 23&-5585. NEED RIDE lo IU 11/30-12/2 1240 ································································ DRIVE TO SEATTLE FOR HOLIDAYS! I'VE GOT THE CAR. YOU SUPPLY DRIVER(S) AND GAS. FOR MORE IN­FORMATION. WRITE T. REID, 5015 36TH AVENUE, NE, SEATTLE, WA 98105 OR CALL (206)524-4567. RIDE NEEDED TO HAWAII FOR XMAS. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. ALAN 3128. ................................................................ My friend and I need a ride to and from Pgh. fO< break. Can leave 12/19. Please call 284-5482  PERSONALS PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­0363. 24 hour hodine/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. B3LC .................... STARBOARDS GIVE ME MORE!!! On the Flying Island of L.aputs... PAUL WILKINS is J(jng!  Christy gets into caped crusaders!! HOLY MUSH!!!!!! SHARON GUERTIN !! SHARON GUER­TIN I! So, it's the big day ... HAPPY 21 !! I hope you have a great one! Love. the roornmie. P.S. I hope you don't float away with the bal ... TO ALL MY FRIENDS AT SENIOR BAR WED. NIGHT Thanks fO< making my initiation to Sanior Bar such a memorable one · especially Vic fO< his efforts to "save the seals" (walrus indeed) and to Kevin fO< making sure I got home safely and at a reasonable hour (that is rt I were getting up fO< work!) Peggy · I like the way we celebrate our birthdays' -Suzanne  NEWS FLASH...3AB WINS,DT WHINES!!! In the sectional football super· bowl (Morrissey), 3AB with the "OB who runs all day" (Milker) defeated the hap­less DT, 13-12. In a related story, many DT-ites hurt themselves by whining too much. , To AMERICA'S SEC­TION ... CONGRATS!!!!! John K. I will miss you so much this weekend. Take it easy and get your work done so we can have fun when I get bacl<. I love you Pukes. To the concerned Domer who wants Christi to get a boyfriend from ND: Why not call5482? Rex Reed calls it "A Play" Joycekle Hawicl< says "I wept" "You'll laugh, you'll cry, it'll become a part of you.. raves the NY Times Kevin Kelly of the Boston Globe  didn't get anything done today! MMM· MMM Tasty Treats! HQve a GREAT year­HONEY' SATISFIED, MISHA? I knew you'd like it. Love from Guess Who To the St. Ed's seniors who I ran into b&­tween Zahm and St. Ed's who told me to visit(this was Friday night befO<e Thanks· giving) Who are you guys anyway and where do you live? Sincerely, the girt in the mini. TICKETS FOR THE SAT. DEC. 8 CON­CERT OF THE SOUTH BEND SYM­PHONY ARE NOWON SALE AT NOTRE DAME'S LAFORTUNE STUDENT BOX OFFICE, ST. MARY'S O'LAUGHLIN AUD., AND AT THE MORRIS CIVIC AUD. BOX OFFICE THE NIGHT OF THE CONCERT. THE CONCERTFEATURES THE SOUTH BEND SYMPHONIC CHOIR AND THE PERFORMANCE OF  
claims "I lost my ticl<et" Gene Schalit of  BETHOVEN'S SYMPHONY NO.9. TICK·  
MONEY$$$MONEY$$$MONEY LOST:I FIGURED THIS WOULD GET YOUR AT­ WHAT HAVE MORE THAN 110 ALUMS DONE THEIR FIRST YEAR AFTER  NBC TV says "It's the best play I've seen all week" So if you see only one play this  ETS ARE $3 WITH STUDENT 1.0.  
TENTION.NOW WOULD YOU PLEASE RETURN MY WALLET THAT YOU  FOR SALE  GRADUATION? Holy Cross Associates. CHECK IT OUT!! Call 239-5521 f0< more  HUMANITIES Quote of the week: "I'm really nervous about this exam. Can wa  week make it the Dramlllllll starring JOHN SHEEHY and a whole lot of other  HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 Mo.TH  
STOLE FROM ME WHILE I WAS SHOWERING AT THE ACC TO THEIR  info.  just write a book report instead?"  people!  8-11pm FR-SA8pm-1am  
LOST&FOUND.YOU CAN KEEP THE DOl.l.AA OR PLACE IT IN THE COLLEC­TION BASKET ON SUNDAY AND MAKE BOTH OF US FEEL BETTER. Lost: Ugh! brown cassette case in Of near D-2 student lot on 11/19 1 can identify contents of the case Please return. REWARD. Csll1382 .....................................,..........................  FOR SALE: 72Skytari< Body: Poor Engine: Good $500 Of' ball! on. Jafl 2116-2042  Wllatsver happened 10 Quisp Cereal? The Baby was Born to Run! DECE..EA 11185 GRADUATES: REG­ISTER FOR SPRING SEMESTER IN­TERVIEWS FROM DECEMBER 3-7. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES, MEMORIAL UIIRARY.  H Quote of the week part II: "I could really believe this class closely resembles Purgatory." H Ouore ol the week part Ill: "One begins to wonder what is real and what is not. I'm not convinced that Oedipus and Calculus are real and football and SYR's are not. What should be our education?"  Happy 20th B-day Peggy! Love Melody Trivial Pursuit Question 101: What are you if your I.Q. is below 25? A: An En­gineer Ed Hughes Do you still get embarrassed in front of friends and lift weights at the Rock? Do you remember? We still do!  Have a once in a lifetime birthday, you of all people know it only comes once. You're now a on&-li~man. Ups and your 2 RA friends where are our dates fO< Dec. 7th Thank you Baby ROD IS KING ZUKE ... RULER OF THE BIFFCLUB!  

The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 11 
seven players need to have an excel­
Gets ball rolling for Irish 
lent game."
Flash 
court slot.)acohs and Ughtning to­getht·r arc producing about 2'i points a game for the Red Flash. 
"I'm really impressed with the quickness of their guards in jacobs and Ughtning," the Irish assistant said. "'lhey are good one-on-one players. Kevin has taught them well in how to play the fundamentals of tht· hackcourt." 
St. Francis' five starters bring some impressive credentials into the g;1me, bur they lack size and the team as a whole lacks depth. Con­way is their big man and is only 6-7, while Sharkt·y isn't giant for a power forward at 6-6. Porter knows this lack of size will enter into the outcome of the game. 
"We're small and they have a big front line," said Porter, "so that may cause problems." 
St. Francis has little in the way of bench scoring, with its starters pro­viding I ~2 of the 162 Red Flash points this year. 
"All of our players need to have a gooll game," the ex-NBA star saill. "We're not a deep ballclub; we rely on seven players. (For us to win) all The Irish will try to capitalize on
continuedfrom page 16 
St. Francis' lack ofdepth and size. 
Full-court press bothers Wildcats 
guard Gregjacobs at the other hack­"We have to take advantage ofour 
and it (the Notre Dame press) 
should not have bothered us as 
much as it did." 
The press did bother the Wildcats, though, forcing them to make several turnovers. The Irish were able to capitalize on those mistakes and turn them into points on the scoreboard. 
Notre Dame started the game with the full-court press, and after staying close for the first six minutes, the Irish jumped out to a seven-point lead at 19-12 and never looked back. 
The press they used was a 3-1-l full-court zone with Scott Hicks, Ken Barlow and David Rivers across the front, Donald Royal behind them and Tim Kempton back to prevent the long pass. After the game, Barlow t:xplained how it works. 
"We try w encourage the pass in­bounds and then I go over with the wingman to try to trap the man in the corner with the ball," Barlow said. "Then we try to intercept the pass back. If the pass goes over, then I run the opposite way and trap (on the other wing). That's what we're looking for: a reversal and then a sec­ondary trap." 
Meanwhile, the rest of the Irish rotate to cover the nearest men when the trap is set in the op­ponent's backcourt. Only the long pass is open after this rotation, and the last man back has time to cut it offif necessary. 
Northweatern (61)  
M FG·A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Berg  19  1-6  0-0  2  2  2  
Peterson  30  3-6  2-2  3  4  8  
Murray  26  2-5  3-4  4  2  7  
Fullen  28  5-7  9-10  4  2  19  
Watts  34  5-10  1-4  2  3  11  


Last night, Kempton was the last man back in the defense, although he often plays in the middle of the front line, Barlow's .position last night. Kempton explained the role of the deep man. 
"The last man is just in the back more as a protection so when we 
SObering
Advice .. 
ca.n~ 
1

alife .~ 

SAVE WITH PIZZA HUT® SPECIAL DELIVERY 
IN SOUTH BEND AND MISHAWAKA 
STATE UNE RD. 
"And delivery is FREE!" Get the great taste of Pizza Hut® pizza delivered right to your door! Call the number shown above for Pizza Hut® Special Delivery to your area. 
FRESH! HOT! li4ST! 
Hours: 4:00pm· 12M, Sun.· Thurs. 4:00pm· 2:00am, Fri. ·Sat. 
Limited Delivery Area Our drivers carry no more rhan $20
r--------­
1 $30FF I anyl.arge Pizza I or $2 OFF any Medium Pizza! 
I Ptease mention coupon when ordering. D1e coupon per party per delivery at 
I 
participating Pizza Hur' Special Delivery units. Not valid for dine-in or carryout, or in combination with any ottJer Pizza Hur' offer Umited Delivery Area. Offer good only on regular menu prices through 
I CALL: 232-2499 
depth and our ability to get the ball inside," said Brokaw. "They're not a big team. We'll have a height advan­tage, and we'll try and exploit that. But we can'tlet their key players in Hamilton, Jacobs and Sharkey get started." 
St. Francis can put points on the board, but it is having a difficult time keep.ing the other team from doing the same. The Red Flash are giving up 99 points a game this year, and Porter feels this must change for his team to have any chance of winning tomorrow. 
"Offensively we can score. Our problem is we need a good game defensively," Porter said. "We've been giving up over 90 points a game. We haven't been playing bad defense, hut we've been giving teams second and third shots, and we can't do that against Notre Dame." 
St. Francis shouldn't pose any diffi­culty for the Irish, but if the Red Flash play tough defense and get a good game out of their starters, the scoreboard may reflect a closer game tha~ most fans expect. 
ByPHILWOLF 
Assistant Sports Editor 

While the Notre Dame basketball team's offense entertained the crowd last night at the ACC, it actu­ally may have been the defense that started the ball rolling. 
Full-court pressure and a hustling man-to-man defense took the Wildcats out of their offensive game, according to Northwestern head coach Rich Falk. 
"I thought (Notre Dame's) defen­sive philosophy early was effective," Falk said. "They did a great job with their full-court pressure and trying to keep the ball away from our ace ball-handler, (Shawn) Watts. They disrupted our offense." 
Falk saill he had expected the Irish 
to usc full-court pressure against his 
team, but the Wildcats could not 
handle the pressure when it came. 
"We expected full-court pres­
sure," Falk said, "and we worked on 
it all week. Basically, we play the 
same way at practices; we change up 
defenses, use full-court, three­
quarter court and half-court traps, rotate, they can't get an easy layup," he said. 
The Irish were able to keep Northwestern from getting many points off the transition game, and the Wildcats had problems setting up their offense. Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said those problems are tobe expected when a team gets tired. 
"What pressure does," Phelps said, "is you force people to extend their offense and wear them down that way as well as force them to throw long passes. If you don't get the traps and you don't get the steal, then you look for the missed shot. and I think those were tht· things we did." 
Indeed, the Irish were able to find a number of missell shots, and they grabbed most ofthem off the boards to initiate their own transition game. lben it was Rivers anll the Notre Dame offense off to the races. 
L..t Night'• Reaulla Notre Dame 79, Northweatern 61 
Dixon 51-10-0102 Richardson 10-0 0-0000 Pitts 10 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Cucuz 1 0-0 1-2 1 0 1 Morris 12 1-6 4-4 2 2 6 Petrovic 2 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Flanagan 2 0-2 0-0 1 0 0 Goode 30 2-11 1-2 7 3 5 
200 2D-56 21·28 28 18 61 
FG Pet. .357. FT Pet. -.750. Team rebounds-1. Turnovers-18. Assists -7, Mur­ray 2, Fullen 2. Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame (79) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Royal 30 2-4 4-4 8 3 8 Barlow 36 6·11 2-2 7 3 14 Kempton 28 5-10 4-4 2 3 14 Rivers 36 6-12 3-4 6 1 15 Hicks 31 7-11 3-3 3 2 17 Newell 0-00-0000 Beeuwsaert 11 2-3 0·0 7 1 4 Duff 4 0-0 0-0000 Peters 20-00-0000 Bowen 20-00-0010 Price 9 2-5 1-3 5 3 5 Voce 12 1-3 D-2 4 2 200 31·59 17·22 42 18 79 
FG Pet. -.525. FT Pet. -.773. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -19. Assists -17, Rivers 9. Technicals-none. 
Halftime -49-29. Officials -Tom Fraim, Larry Lembo, John Moreau, all from the ACC. A-10,664. 

To all who would like to use the Nazz or the Chautauqua Ballroom... For your convenience, request forms have been developed and are located In the Student Activities Board Office on the Second Floor of Lafortune... All those who would like to request the use of the Nazz or Chautauqua must complete a form one week and one day prior to the night of the event so that we may publicize 8t schedule the event. Thank you, The Student Activities Board  
GIVE SOMEONE A TAN FOR CHRISTMAS Ask about our X-MasspeciaiH_ TAN....HAWAIIAN sun tonnrg solm 277-7026 J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy VISA & MASTERCARD  

-The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984-page 12 
Notre Dame Hockey-Varsity Again 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 

Hockey has been around Notre Dame for 17 years. The program got its start as a varsity sport in the 1968-69 season and the team competed on that level until last season when it was demoted to club status. The '84-'85 season has marked the return ofvarsity hockey, but instead ofthe familiar WCHA, CCHA or even CSCHL affiliations -the Irish are now operating as an independent. 
For 10 years, beginning with the '70-'71 season, Notre Dame was a member of the prestigious Western Collegiate Hockey Association. The membership brought consistency to the program and the chances of making a name for Notre Dame hockey seemed just down the road. 
But due to rising travel costs to reach the Denvers, 
Colorado Colleges and Minnesotas, and the emergence of 
respectable hockey powers closer to home, the Irish 
withdrew from the WCHA and joined the Central Collegiate 
Hockey Association for the 1981-82 season. It contained the 
"If we can get some good recruiting in the next year or two, I really think that we can build a solid hockey program." 
-Lefty Smith 


likes ofBowling Green, Michigan State, Michigan Tech and other schools which had been working to set foundations for solid programs. 
After two years in the CCHA, Notre Dame again decided that rising costs were becoming a problem. This time the cost for scholarships and other expenses along with what appeared to be dwindling student interest made hockey's operation very prohibitive. As a result, the sport was dropped to club level. The team then competed in the Central States Collegiate Hockey League which featured teams like Illinois, Illinois State, Iowa State, Marquette and other teams still working to develop a program. Alabama­Huntsville was by far the most competitive team in the league. It eventually went on to win the U.S. National Club Ice Hockey Championship last year. 
Looking back to hockey's inception-and its early play in the WCHA, Lefty Smith, the only coach Irish hockey has ever known, recalls his aspirations for the Notre Dame program. 
"I really had high hopes that at one time we wou•d be able to go out and compete with the best in the league," he said. "We played some excellent hockey schools like Minnesota and Wisconsin, yet we were never the doormat ofthe league. But at the same time, we never finished in first place. Looking at what I expect from Notre Dame, it seems that it should be able to go out and field a good team in every sport. But as has 
Huntsville 
continued from page 16 
Badalich moves back to wing after spending some time at center. Foley had spent the previous nine games on defense. 
Six people are battling for th~ three spots on the fourth line. Gary Becker, john Nickodemus,john Tiberi, Rich Kennedy,John Welsch and Rich Sobilo are aK hoping to earn one of those final positions. 
Overall, the Notre Dame scoring chart has Chapman on top with 12 goals and nine assists. Line mate Reilly is second with five goals and 13 assists. Mooney and co-captain Bob Thebeau are tied for third. Mooney has eight goals and four assists, while Thebeau has contributed five goals and seven 
as~ists. 

After a solid season in 1983-84, the goaltending depart­ment has had its ups and downs so far this season. Many of the goalies' woes have come as a result of the inconsistent defensive play in front of them. In the two games against Air Force, the Irish were outshot, 78-58. 
"Certainly it would be better ifthe other teams were able to get fewer shots, but we can't blame it all on the defensive play," said AI Haverkamp. "It seemed ina number ofthe games that the goalies have gotten off to good starts, but when we needed a big save, we just couldn't come up with it. Making big saves at crucial times can make a big difference in the outcome ofa game." 
Tim Lukenda is the probable starter tonight. Haverkamp or 
Marc Guay will most likely be in the Notre Dame net 
tomorrow. 

In the injury department, Badalich has several broken 
bones in his right hand, but will play against Alabama. Tom 
Parent saw limited action over the Thanksgiving holiday, but 
reaggravated his separated shoulder and will be out ofthe 
lineup this weekend. 

The Irish have made some lineup changes in the hope of getting back on a winning path. Add this to the fact that they would like to gain revenge against the Chargers, some fast, hard-hitting action should be in store tonight and tomorrow at theACC. 
become obvious, finances, scheduling and other factors can change this." 
The success of the football and basketball teams also seemed to have a big influence on the hockey program. Unfortunately, Smith believes that this influence was not a positive one as far as local fans were concerned. 
"We had much more respect in other areas ofthe country," he said. "Here in South Bend the people always seemed to expect a national championship, a final four berth or at least a first place finish. Our recruiting was helped by the fact that we are Notre Dame and all that the name and its academic reputation carries. But we were also hindered by the academic guidelines and the fact that basketball and football were able to put more into recruiting." 
With the eventual transfer into the CCHA, the number of hockey scholarships was decreased from 20 to 16. It was also a widely known fact that the CCHA had yet to make a mark in recognized hockey circles ~ a powerful hockey league. Even at present, it is not as highly accredited as the WCHA. These factors, therefore, contributed to a decline in Notre Dame's ability to recruit top hockey talent. 
"When we first started in the WCHA, Bowling Green, Ohio State and other CCHA schools slowly were developing to what they are now," said Smith. "Even at the time we made the move into the CCHA, it was still considered a step down from the WCHA. Consequently, we lost some of the blue-chip, extremely hockey-oriented talent to other schools that emphasized hockey more. This hurt, because it showed a lessened commitment from the administration in the eyes of the potential recruit." 
Putting all of the potential recruiting problems aside, 
however, that first season in the CCHA was marked by its 
share ofsuccesses. 

The '81-'82 team captured the Great Lakes Invitational 
Tournament in Detroit by defeating Michigan Tech, 4-3, 
before over 21,000 fans and a national television audience 
watching on ESPN. 

In the same year, the Irish knocked off Bowling Green in 
the first round of the CCHA playoffs, but lost to Michigan 
State, 4-1, in the championship game and finished with a 
23-15-2 mark. Notre Dame also came close to an NCAA bid, 
but it was awarded to Bowling Green. 
"Winning the GUT in front ofwhat was the largest crowd 
at the time to watch a college hockey game, as well as having 
a national audience on ESPN, gave us nice exposure," said 
Smith. "Beating BG in the playoffs was great, but their getting 
an NCAA bid was a low point for us." 
The following CCHA season was marked by.turmoil as the 
fate ofthe program was a constant topic ofspecula~ion 
throughout much of the early part ofthe campaign. When 
the final verdict was levied onjanuary 27, 1983, the hockey 
team took a new outlook on the season. 
"After everything was said and done, the whole thing 
became kind ofa rallying point for the team," said Smith. 
"Many felt let down by the University, but they still valued 
what it had done for them. They just became even more 
determined to go out and show that they were a class group. 
Making the playoffs after a slow start was certainly a positive 
sign oftheir determination." 

Up until the announcement ofvarsity hockey's demise, the 
Irish carried a 6-17-1 record. But after the word was out, 
Notre Dame posted a 7-4-1 mark. 
With the opportunity to transfer without losing eligibility, 
"Even though I respected the University and its academics and athletics, I felt that it was a better decision ifI left to pursue my college hockey career on a higher level," said Steve Bianchi, who now plays for Providence College. "That's what I set out to do when I entered college and I felt somewhat let down by the whole situation at Notre Dame. As it has turned out, transferring has proved to be advantageous both academically and athletically." 
The year in the Central States Collegiate Hockey League saw Notre Dame finish with an impressive 23-5-1 record. But as Smith and his players would probably agree, there is more to a record than just.numbers. 
"I was really impressed with the attitude of the kids through it all," stated Smith. "It was hard to get excited about beating competition that was far below our level, but the kids always played with great enthusiasm even though at times it got boring because winning was so easy. A lot of the victories tended to be a bit hollow." 
With all the previous talk ofrecruiting problems, the obvious question ofhow offering no scholarships would affect recruiting began to surface. One oflast year's seven freshmen had this to say. "Corning from a Canadian high school I was looking mostly at Canadian colleges," said Tim Lukenda from Sault Ste. Marie. "But when I came to Notre Dame, I recognized the tradition and the good academic reputation, so I just decided that the academic benefits outweighed the fact that hockey was not a varsity sport. I also was hoping that some day the program would go back to varsity, but that was not my first concern." 
Hockey is indeed back and competing as a varsity sport this year. And after all the controversy surrounding the program's demise and subsequent reduction to club status, Smith and his players have been working harder than ever to make a name for Notre Dame hockey. Making hockey a varsity sport again has had a most noticeable positive effect on all involved. 
"Everyone's attitude has been exceptional," said Smith. "The won-loss record is not as good as we would like, but we have a lot ofinexperienced people in our starting lineup. Our freshman class is much better than we ever expected and with time I think things will begin to turn around. The leadership of the upperclassmen has been fantastic and this can only help things. 
"The support ofthe student body really has been most 
pleasing and quite appreciated. We hope that it will 

continue. Ifeveryone is patient, we think they will be able to 
see some excellent hockey here at Notre Dame." 
Smith feels that bringing the program back as a non­

scholarship independent has also stirred a positive change of 
feelings by the students towards the athletes. 
"In college environments where things are done with 

making money as the main goal, I think that students begin to 
feel alienated," said Smith, "especially when many ofthem 
are working hard to pay their way through college and they 
see or hear about athletes with lesser academic credentials 
receiving scholarships and special privileges. 

"The situation this year with hockey is different than past years, because I think that the students finally feel that they are on the same level as the players. Not receiving scholar­ships makes the players more identifiable with the school. They are not, in a sense, hired hands. These guys do the same things as all other students, yet they still choose to devote their free time to representing their school." 

Senior co-captain Brent Chapman lets one fly. 
only eight players chose to exercise this option. "I think that this showed the great respect these kids have for the University and what it has done for them," said Smith. 
"I chose to stay because I valued a Notre Dame educa­tion," said Bob Thebeau, one of this year's co-captains. "I would like to have gone somewhere to continue playing Division I hockey, and I still hope that I'll be able to further my career after college. But I just think I made the decision that was best for me." 
One of the eight players who decided to exercise his option to leave also feels that he made the right decision. 
.. 

With hockey back on the varsity level, Smith is optimistic that the program will continue to grow and gradually acquire respect as a contender in the ranks ofmajor-college hockey. 
"Ifwe can get some good recruiting in the next year or two, I really think that we can build a solid hockey program," said Smith. "Doing most ofour recruiting only over the phone or through the mail, I have to say that I've been pleased with the interest. I'd like to be able to compete again with the Minnesotas and Wisconsins. Not on a regular basis ofcourse, but I think that things are looking extremely promising." 
The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 13 
Devotion, determination pay off for Reilly 
Senior says he matured as a person during four years at ND 
By ED DOMANSKY 
.\ports Writer 
Going away to college is a major step towards maturity for most young people. Making the adjustment to living on one's own as well as trying to meet the pressures and demands required for the new academic setting can quickly make or break many people. 
Adding w this the challenge ofcompeting a.~ a varsity athlete can make the situation even more complex. Senior Tim Reilly has learned through his experience a.~ a member of the Notre Dame hockey team that through 1levotion and determination all potential adjustment problems can be surmounted. 
As a veteran member ofthe team, Reilly has found that with time it is possible to become a better person both in the cla.~sroom and in the realm of athletics. But he insists that college life as a student and an athlete can often be quite frustrating. 
"I've grown up a lot as a person, as a hockey player and as a 
student since freshman year," says the 5-10, 180-pounder 
from Melrose, Ma.~s. "Notre Dame is not an easy place to get 
used to the first year, especially as an athlete. Things were 
really tough all around for me that first year. But since then 
things have slowly begun w click. 
"Much of the maturity I feel I've gained, I owe to Notre Dame and the kind of challenging place it is. At the same time, though, my parents have provided a lot ofsupport for me. 1 also think my fiance, Renee Matvey, ha.-; helped settle me down a lot too. Both her and my parents told me that I needed to smarten up a little and start taking thi:tgs more seriously . 
"I ju!tt naturally like to be somewhat of a joker. Being loose is important, especially in hockey. You can't play a good game if you're too uptight. But just the same, I just had to learn to be careful and to maintain certain limits so as not to be too unserious and foolish." 
Being named an alternate captain on this year's team certainly seems indicative of the fact that Reilly has matured quite well. 
"Tim leads by his work ethic and his talent," says Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "He is a quiet 'follow-me'·type leader. His sense ofhumor also helps keep people loose, and that is important." 
Reilly, himself, is very grateful for his chance to be a team leader. "If makes me play better," he says. "I have to stay on my toes when I know people are expecting things ofme. Hopefully the guys will see me doing my job and it will pick them up. Especially on this year's team with so many freshmen, leadership has been important. I'm just tr.ying my best to be a positive influence in any way that I can." 
In just nine games so far in '84-'85, Reilly has demon­strated his leadership on the ice, as he has scored five goals and added 13 assists. Last season he contributed 12 goals and 25 assists in 26 games, and should certainly equal if not better that mark this season. 
"Tim has really improved as a player. In the beginning of his career here, he was pretty much a defensive-style player," said Smith. "But now he has developed both his offensive and defensive talents and is scoring at a much better rate than in any ofthe previous years." 

Tim Reilly in action 

Reilly played in 24 games his freshman year and notched two assists, including a point in his first varsity action against York University. 
As a sophomore he played in just 13 games due to ligament damage in his right knee. The Injury occurred during practice over Christmas Break, forcing him to miss the Great Lakes Invitational Tournament in Detroit as well a.o; much of the remainder of the season. 
"Ifyou can ever say that an Injury came at a good time, I'd have to say that this one did," says Rellly. "I had arthroscopic surgery over the holidays, but I was stlll able to come back and play in the last series." 

Things have not gone quite as well this season a.~ Rellly and his teammates would like, but he is optlmistlc that things will improve. "I don't know what we have to do," he says with a smile. "We're playing well, but not well enough to win. I think that sometimes we play too much to the style dictated by the opposition rather than our own style. We just sit back and by the time the third period comes around and we begin to realize what's happening, it's too late. 
"Christmas has always seemed to be our turning point, so hopefully we'll be able to do well in the remaining three games and then go out East over the holidays and make a good showing. Then I think things will really start to roll in the right direction." 
Looking past the hockey season, Reilly's life is headed in still another direction. He and Matvey will be married soon after graduation in May, and from then on Reilly hopes to put his Notre Dame education to work as he begins to concen­trate on family matters. 
"We haven't set a date, but I know it will be soon after graduation," he says. "I'm hoping to land a job either in marketing or management. Hockey has been very good to me, but my education is most important. Hockey ha.-; just enabled me to get the kind ofeducation that Notre Dame offers. I couldn't have afforded it otherwise, so I don't know where I'd be now. I'm very grateful to Notre Dame and all the opportunities it has presented me." 
Women's basketball team goes on road for two 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Wrltt.,. 
Still in search of its first victory of the season, the Notre Dame wo­men's basketball team embarks on a two-game road trip that includes games at Eastern Michigan tonight and at Michigan on Sunday. 
Although it is still early in the season, the 0-2 Irish already find tht•mselves in a situation where they badly need a victory. With a difficult schedule ahead, Notre Dame needs to get on the winning track immedi­ately if it is to have a successful season in 1984-85. 
The Irish have a chance to get that first victory tonight when they take on tht· Hurons of Eastern Michigan llniversity in Ypsilanti, but winning will be no easy task. The Hurons fig­ure to bt· a much improved team from last year's 13-14 squad which finished sixth in the Mid-American Confen·nce. With eight returning letter-winners, Coach Kathy Hart's team ha.~ plenty of proven scoring potential. Hart's starting lineup feature!> three returnees who 
averaged better than I 0 points a game last sea.o;on. 
At the forward spots, the Hurons start 5-11 senior Bobbi Morse ( 12.4 points and 5. 1 rebounds per game la.o;t year) and 5-1 0 junior Felicia Hines ( 10.5 points and 9.8 rebounds). At center, Eastern Mic­higan ha.o; 6-I sophomore Sharon Rose. 'lbe Hurons also have a pair of talented freshman forwards in 5-10 Laura Nelson and 5-I 0 Katie Nucci. 
In the backcourt, Hart will start a pair of proven veterans in 5-li junior Sharon Brown (the team's leading scorer last season with a 13.7 average) and 5-7 senior Carla Campbell (6.7 points per game last year). Freshman Zan Woodson, who stands just 5-I , figures to be the first guard off the bench. 
Tonight's game is the season opener for the Hurons, a fact that causes some concern for Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. 
"We're well aware that this Is their home opener," says DiStanislao. "One thing we learned against Purdue is to beware of a team In their opening game --and that's es­pecially true for a home opener. The other thing we learned is that you can't determine a team's potency by its height." 
The Irish will be looking to avoid the mistakes that plagued them in last Monday's 62-59 loss to Purdue in ND's home opener. The Irish had problems holding on to the ball (27 turnovers) and pulling down rebounds (outrebounded, 48-36). 
"We've been working a lot on rebounding and ball-handling in practice this week," says DiStanislao. "Rebounding Isn't a technical thing --it basically comes down to who gets the best position and who gets to the ball first. lbose arc things that require concentration." 
Notre Dame's starting lineup for tonight's game will remain un­changed from the Purdue game. That lineup features junior Trena Keys and freshman Sandy Botham at the forward spots, senior Carrie Bates at center, and senior Ruth Kaiser and junior Denise Basford at the guards. 
Much like Eastern Michigan, the Wolverines of Michigan are looking for improvement in '84. After pos­ting a dismal 4-22 record last year, rookie coach Bud Van De W egc has a veteran team that has looked im­pressive thus far. Michigan ( 1-1) opened with a convincing 78-55 thrashing of Northern Michigan Sat­urday night, dominating the boards by a 43-22 margin. The Wolverines shot an impressive 54 percent from the field in that game. 
Wednesday night, the Wolverines fell vlctims of a Western Michigan comeback as they suffered their first defeat of the season. 
Mi~higan starts 6-0 junior Wendy Bradetich ( 21 points per game last year) and 6-0 freshman Lorca Feldman at the forward slots. The center is 5-I 0 senior Diana Wiley (II points per contest last season). In the backcourt are 5-8 junior Oret­hia Lilly and 5-9 freshman Kelly Benintendi. 
"Michigan is an interesting team," says the Irish coach. "lbey're basi­cally juniors and freshmen. Mic­higan ha.~ talent Northern Michigan didn't provide much com­petition for them. Against Western Michigan Wednesday night I think you saw some of the inconsistencies of youth showing because Michigan dashed out to an early lead but West­ern Michigan ultimately came back to win the game. 
"Michigan will give us a tough game because they have such good talent. We have to control their of­fense, we have to control the boards, and we have to control the tempo of the game." 
DiStanislao is well aware of the areas where her team needs to show improvement. If they are to gain their first win of the season tonight, the Irish have to play with more con­sistency. 
"Our team has to play to their ca­pabilities, and they have to play for 40 minutes," says DiStanislao. "They have to take care of the ball --turn­overs and rebounding have been the story in our first two games. Those are the things we've got to improve upon in order to get that first win under our belt." 
Notre Dame's next home game is Wednesday, December 5, against Western Michigan. On Saturday, December 8, the Irish take on the Hoyas ofGeorgetown in the ACC. 

.----~~---------­
The Observer Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 14 
Wrestlers win two; travel to Indiana State Open 
By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame wrestling team traveled to Adrian, Mich., Wednes­day and defeated both Siena Heights and Olivet in a double dual meet. The Irish had little trouble with Siena Heights, prevailing by a 34-6 score. 
Leading the way for Notre Dame was John Krug, who won by fall at 
2:22 in the 190-pound class. Greg Fleming, Tom Ryan and Don Heintzelman were other big win­ners as the Irish won eight of their 
Show 

continuedfrom page 16 
ing, turning layups in the lane. There was an alley-oop pass from Rivers to Barlow for a slam, something many Irish fans had not seen for a while. 
Rivers demonstrated his ever­present ability to find the open man, as he totalled nine assists, many of them spectacular, to go with his 1 5 points. Hicks led the Irish with 1 7 points, many ofthem coming on fast­break layups assisted by Rivers. 
And when the Irish had to revert to the half-court game, the quick­ness ofthis year's guards still was ev­ident. Time and time again, Rivers and Hicks were able to penetrate the Northwestern zone, opening up Kempton and Barlow inside. With good shot selection, the Irish were able to shoot at an excellent 53­percent clip. 
After a Barlow layup off a behind­the-back pass from Rivers which gave the Irish a I 7-12 lead at the 
12:13 mark, it seemed the Irish turned it on and put the Wildcats far behind. After Falk could not regroup his charges with his first timeout, Notre Dame continued to dominate until it built a 14-point lead at 28-14. 
"We were in the game, and then we just got impatient," said Falk. "They got three or four easy baskets, and then with Rivers putting on his act -which was entertaining and ef­fective -a few of our guys decided they ought to try it, too. We just got ourselves into deeper and deeper trouble." 
Rivers led another Irish spurt later in the half, and when swingman Matt Beeuwsaert hit a 1 5-foot bank shot for a 43-27 lead, Falk motioned for another timeout. 
But nothing could stop the onslaught, and the Irish ended the half with a 49-29 lead on a Joseph Price jumper. 
The Wildcats presented a little suspense at the start of the second half as they scored eight un­answered points to come within thirteen points of the Irish at the 
16:03 mark. Notre Dame took its 
first  timeout  of  the  game,  and  
quickly regrouped.  
"We  had  two  turnovers,  we  

missed a couple of shots, they hit eight straight points, and that's when I called the timeout," said Phelps. "And we came right back and put it back up again. (The players) didn't panic, they didn't lose their com· posure and they got the things done that were necessary." 
Hicks broke the Wildcat streak with a floating layup over Watts to make the score· 55-42. The Irish never looked back, keeping the visitors at bay from that point on. The Rivers to Barlow alley-oop high­lighted the Irish scoring during the final stretch. 
No matter how good the perfor­mance, however, there still were some negatives to learn from. One of these was the 19 turnovers commit-
Please 

I 
support the AMERICAN 
WCANCER 

fSOCIETY® 
·,"" • ' • • • t 
10 matches. 
Notre Dame found the going a little tougher in the second match as it downed Olivet, 23-20. The Irish only won four matches and tied one other, but sophomore Luke DiS­abato won by fall at 2:05 of his 150­pound match and senior captain Phil Baty repeated DiSabato's feat at 4:32 in the 177-pound division. The addi­tional points awarded to a team for a 
fall  allowed  the Irish  to  win  the  
meet,  despite  having  won  fewer  
matches than Olivet.  

"We didn't wrestle up to our po­tential," said Irish head coach Fran 
ted by the Irish, many ofthem passes from Rivers that were mishandled by the receivers. The players seem to think that this matter will correct itselfover time. 
"It's a lot different from last year because Dave can do so much with the basketball," explained Barlow, who often is a recipient of Rivers' surprise offerings. "You just have to be ready, knowing that he's out on the court running. You have to just have your eyes open looking for the ball coming down on the break. It's up to the other offensive players to catch it." 
From the looks ofthings last night, the Irish appear to be on their way to a successful, entertaining season. 
"Everyone knows what we're ca­pable of doing," says Rivers. "This year Notre Dame basketball is capa­ble of having a running team, and that's what we're trying to work on right now. 
"Right now, everything's going 
well, but everything can be better, 
and will be better," 
As far as Notre Dame fans are con­
cerned, no one could have said it 
better. 
C: • 

McCann. "Especially against Olivet, we had more trouble than ex­pected." However, McCann was pleased with the performance of Fleming, as the sophomore dominated his two opponents. 
"Greg Fleming was the highlight of the meet for us," McCann said. "He won both of his matches decisively by the scores of 17-1 and 13-0." 
Freshman Ron Wisniewski was the only other Irish wrestler to win two matches. Wisniewski bested the opposition by scores of9-4 and 15-7. 
Tomorrow the Irish travel to Terre Haute, Ind., to take part in the Indiana State Open Tournament where they will face six other teams. McCann hopes that early tourna­ments such as this will help prepare the young team for later in the year. 
"We'll get to wrestle a lot of matches," said McCann. "That will be good experience, especially for the younger kids." 
Despite the stiff competition awaiting the Irish, McCann is ex­pecting to fare well when the squad heads south. 
"We don't want to get embar­rassed. We want to go down there and win to show that we've got a good team. We want people to re­member us." 
In order to make the strong showing McCann hopes for, he will need strong leadership from seniors Baty and Arthur Murphy and juniors DiSabato and Krug. The majority of the squad is made up of underdas­smen who, although having much talent, need the experience the Indiana State Open will provide. McCann obviously has confidence in his team, and if the young squad performs up to its potential he will have plenty to be happy about. 
Saint Mary's swimming team opens season today at Notre Dame Relays 
By KATIILEEN NICHOLSON 
Sports Writer 

This afternoon the Saint Mary's swimming team will kick off the 1984-85 season against five other teams in the first annual women's Notre Dame Relays. The 24-member squad will travel across Route 31 to meet the Irish along with teams from Butler, Valparaiso, Xavier and the University ofIllinois-Chicago. 
The meet, to be held at Rockne Memorial Pool, will be the first com­petition for the Belles before they begin their regular season ofsix dual meets. Last year the women finished the season with an respectable 4-3 record, the first winning record in the team's history. This year the team looks to improve even more under the direction of new head coach Dan Flynn. 
Flynn, a four-time varsity letter­
• • 4i 
• The S.A.B. Ideas & Issues Committee presents: • 
Playwright Edward Albee 
Author of"Who'sAfraid of Virginia Woolf "and "Zoo Story" 
will be speaking in Washington Hall Monday, December 3rd, 8:00p.m. 
on "The Playwright Versus the Theatre"
•

r." • • • • • 
man for Irish coach Dennis Stark, replaces Scott Trees as the leader of the Belles. The first year M.B.A. stu­dent has been labelled as the best buttertlier ever at Notre Dame by Stark. 
Flynn, who assumed coaching re­sponsibilities in October, is optimis­tic about this year's team. 
"I'm really excited about this year," says Flynn. "They're a great group of girls and they've been working very hard." 
Flynn realizes he has his work cut out for him with the loss of swim­ming standouts Gail Casey and Rosie Whalen to graduation last May. The returning letter-winners hope to fill this gap with their impressive past records. 
Senior captain Ellen Byrne, a 1983-84 NAJA All-American, will lead her teammates in the freestyle sprints. She will be supported by junior all-American Amy Studer who will try to continue breaking school records in the individual medley and butterfly events. Returning juniors Anne Cushing, Mary Fran Gisch, and Joyce Murtagh will be adding depth along with sophomores Mary Fisher, Patty Juckniess, Kathleen Kennedy and Margaret Mannion. 
The Belles have been training since October in anticipation of this season's competition and will con­tinue to train over the Christmas holidays. Flynn and his team will be travelling to San Juan, Puerto Rico on January 4 for a ten-day training session. 
"The facilities are excellent in Puerto Rico and the weather has al­ways been optimum for outdoor training," says Flynn, who has travelled to San Juan with the Irish swimmers for the past four years. 

Off Beat Productions • Saint Mary's College CBS Records • Say Say 
ENTER THE DANCE VIDEO ZONE 

SATURDAY December 1 Chatauqua 9-2 Cost: $1 
Free records &posters given away $ $ Lip Syn Contest $ $ U2 Ticket Raffle 


TOMORROW· SATURDAY DEC.1 
THE BOBS an a'capella band 
from San Francisco 
..... 


_____________,___ 
~4(Jt~C3L~-----------------------------------------F·r-id•a•y-,N--ov.e.m..b.er __
..30_,_1_9_8_4 •P•a•g•e·l-5 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
L/57CN, RIO<, NEXT 
JOANte ... lr
77M& 'rrJll fl5EL UKE BY .4 IAJHAF' 50Ml3THING81N61N6, 7RY 70 R£­
I HAPPEN570!Mf.MBtl< YOU HAVl3.4 
M£3.. YOU MU5T 
-' i74MI/..Y, 
J!fU OUR 50N 
~ -{$ OKAY? 
ABMAa.AI ST13/EN50Nl 
Tank McNamara 


Bloom County 
II/5€P m8€. 
SAY... lJifmltR. NOW AR€N'T I'M 'f<llJNOOSH 
YW ANNE SWAN/ &OR5f£r.l!. 
BVP.FORP? 
. I 
I 
.• w5r S/£t£f', f'.f:I?Y rH ... 
fOfl.C!P OltrOf 'THE flOCK 
ANP t£fr T() WANtJER II COLP, 
61/SPfCKK/5. L/8€1?11~ WORLf?... 
5/ftHIN£P LIKt£ LEPri/?5 ... 1/tml NOW. 
\. 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
1/NP 111€Y 1/5€1? 10 
8€ JAtt'€6 Wl/17: 1?/CHI/fl.P AlLEN. 1?/TI/
l!Mtl.£ ANI? f(fly 
PONOVAN.'.•• 
\. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 40 Golf peg 3 Battologize 
Thursday's Solution

41 Sed notlce1 4 Harding or 
t Nick'l wile 42 Dillllll Miller 5 Fitting 43 O'Her1 or 5 Unexpected8 Depreulon of Sullivan 
theeor 8 Conspirator'•14 Obedient 45 Setlltl ectlvity18 lmltete 48 Of the eole of 7 Chairman pro ­the feet 8 Reaort11 With 57A, 9 Certain rood evince happl· 48 Lancheater 10 PointersorMoxweii
neu 
50 Long time 11 Flrat·claae18 Ear opeclollot periodI 12 Watered down 19 Form a lap 
13 Lawyer: abbr. 20 Not ot home 52 JFK'o preda· 51 Ewe aald it 
15 -effort
21 Afew cassor 23 Of planes 22 Wyatt ofthe 55 Pacific Island 24 EweiaWest 57 See11A 
25 Slip by
2' Like roaeo at 59 Kite dawn 80 Certain 28 Hamlet horsemen 27 Entranced


27 Uncommon 38 Touch 51 Theda of early 
81 "Thera Ia a 28 Together In

29 Certain fall 39 Fruit films
rabbit In-" music 

43 Tomorrow 53 Mend 31 Heb. month 30 Arrowroot plant In Mex. 54 Gaelic 82 Rotten 
83 Br. composer

32 Brazilian IIIII 33 Burllves for 44 Approached 55 Oolongor © 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 33 Shlilelogh one All Rights Reserved
48 Resounds Souchong 12/1/84 DOWN 34 Activist org. 47 Navigation 56 Oevoureo 38 "Bye Bye 1 Mediocre horses 35 Criterion device 57 Decline Birdie" aong 2 King of Israel 37 "Burning Is-" 49 Recent 58 Harem room 

"Well, shucks! I've lost again. Talk about your allen luck!" 

Campus 
Friday, Nov. 30 

•12:05 
p.m. -Lecture, "Recent Trend~ in South Africa," Prof. Peter Walshe, Room 101 Law School, Sponsored by International Law Society. 

•I2:I5 
-I p.m. -Faculty and Staff Forum, "America as Apocalypse: lbe Rhetoric of Intensity the Fate ofHumor," Prof. Thomas Werge, ND, Cen­ter for Social Concerns, Brown Bag or Soup and Bread, $1. 

•
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "The Sickness of the Heart," Jerome Schneewind, Ubrary Faculty Lounge, Sponsored by Philosophy Dept. 

•6 
p.m.-12 a.m.-Ladies ofNotre Dame Hollday Dinner Dance, LaSalle Hotel. 

•
7 p.m. -Mens Swimming-Notre Dame Relays, Rockne Memorial. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.· FUm, "M*A*S*H," Knights ofColumbus Council Home, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 51. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night FUm Series, "Zoot Suit," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND v~. Alabama/Huntsville, ACC Fieldhouse. 

•8 
p.m. -1 a.m. -Cider Stomp, Folk Dancing and 

O'Laughlin Auditorium, Also Dec. I, 6, 7 & 8, $2.50. 

•9 
p.m. -Beaux Arts Ball, "Imported," Band: Cause for Passion, Architecture Building, Sponsored by Student Chapter of the AlA, Umited Tickets Available . 

Saturday, Dec. 1 


•8 
a.m. -3 p.m. -Law School Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium. 

•IO 
a.m.-5 p.m.-Macintosh Users Road Show, Hayes Healy Center. 

•I 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. St. Francis ( Pa. ), ACCArena. 

•1 
p.m. -Swimming, ND Men vs. Western On­tario, Canada, Rockne Memorial. 

•7 
p.m.-Concert, India Association's Sitar Recital, Dr. Ennad Pillai, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by India Association of Notre Dame. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-FUm, "M*A*S*H," Knight~> of Columbus Council Home , Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, ND vs. Alabama/Huntsville, ACC Fieldhouse. 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "lbe Dramatist," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Also Runs Dec. 6, 7 & 8, $2.50. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, A Reading of Charles Dickens' "Christmas Carol," Dr. Bert Hornback, University of Michigan, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board. 

•9 
p.m. -Undergraduate Club Night With the Bobs , Senior Bar. 

•9 
p.m. -2 a.m. -Video Dance, Chatauqua, Sponsored by OffBeat Productions (SMC), $1. 


Fund,  Center  for  Social  Concerns,  Admission:  
Bring Some Food to Share.  
•8 p.m.  -ND/SMC Theatre, "The  Dramatist,"  

Sunday, Dec. 2 

•I 
1 a.m. -Guadalupe Celebration Spanish Mass, Farley HaiL 

•II 
a.m. -5 p.m. -Macintosh Users Road Show, Hayes Healy Center. 

•I2 
p.m. -Guadalupe Celebration Lunch, Center for Social Concerns. 

•1 
-5 p.m. -SMC Bowling Tournament, Haggar College Center Parlor, Sponsored by SMC Student Activities, Free. 


sss.._~ 


THE meeting placelor seniors 
NOV 30 
F 
soe BEERS 'til Midnight 
Come early and beat the clock 

DEC 1 THE 8 OBS from San Francisco 
FREE CONCERT • • OPEN TO ALL
S 
: This Weekend : 
e The Knights ofColumbus present
• •e 
: M*A*S*H : 
• 
Fri & Sat 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 e 

• 
EngineeringAud. $1.00 e


• 

Friday, November 30, 1984 -page 16
S~orts 
Irish down Wildcats, 79-61; ready for Red Flash 
Notre Dame unveils exciting run-and-gun game to home fans in beating Northwestern 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 

The show finally has come to town. 
In front of I0,664 anxious fans at the ACC last night, the excitement that was anticipated from this year's Notre Dame basketball learn made its first appearance as the Irish downed the Wildcats of Northwestern, 79-61. 
The excitement came in the form oflithe freshman guard David Rivers, who led the Irish to a con­vincing win in what was an un­usually fast-paced game for Irish fans. 
There was a great deal of run­ning for Irish fans to feast on, as Notre Dame made it clear from the outset what kind of team it will be this year. 
"I know it's hard for some people to believe, but I've always been a zone-press coach who loves to run and shoot," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps, "but you've got to have the players who can do that. I think that group out (on the court) does it very, very well." 
One would have to agree with Phelps after witnessing last night's performance. The Irish pressed the Wildcats early and often, forcing them into poor shot selection, which resulted in a exceptionally low shooting percentage of.360. 
"All the things we worked on in preperation for this game totally fell apart in the first half," said Wildcat mentor Rich Falk. "I give a lot of credit to Notre Dame for it. With their defensive philosophy early, their full-court pressure, they totally disrupted our offense." 

On the offensive end, the Irish certainly did run and shoot. With Donald Royal, Ken Barlow, and Tim Kempton leading the way inside, Notre Dame dominated the boards for the entire game, which allowed Rivers, running-mate Scott Hicks, and others to present quite an entertaining clinic on the values ofthe fast break. 
There were behind-the-back passes for easy buckets and twist-
see SHOW, page 14 
Kevin Porter and St. Francis come to ACC 
ByJOE BRUNETII 
Sports Writer 

Kevin Porter will bring his 0-2 St. Francis basketball team into the ACC tomorrow at 1 p.m. to try and notch its first win of the 1984 season. For Digger Phelps' Irish it will be another game against a pesky, hard-working team. 
"St. Francis is a tough blue collar team," says Notre Dame assistant coach Gary Brokaw. "They are similar to Manhattan in that they won't give up. They're tough and are going to play just like their coach Kevin Porter did in the NBA (as a member of the Washington Bullets)." 
The Red Flash dropped their first to game to Ohio University, 94-84, and their second game to Pitt, 104-84, but St. Francis won't necessarily be an easy win for Notre Dame. Porter returns all five starters from last year's squad, in­cluding senior Jeff Hamilton, who averaged close to 18 points a game a year ago. It is the play of Hamiliton that has the Irish coach­ing staffworried the most. 
"Jeff Hamilton is a great player. He got 24 points against Pitt," said Brokaw. "He's going to shoot at least 20 shots a game. He's a physi­cal player and an intelligent player who can read defenses." 
Porter feels the same way about 
his 6-4 small forward. "We're looking for a lot of scoring out of Jeff Hamilton." 

Senior power forward Joe Sharkey will play alongside Hamil­ton on the front line, while center Jim Conway is questionable be­cause of a sprained ankle suffered in the game with Ohio U. Sharkey should be a key factor for the Red Flash, as he brings a 17-point average into the game. 
"Sharkey is a tough veteran and a senior," said Brokaw. "He is a physical player inside and he has a 25-foot jump shot range." 
Porter will start senior Napoleon lightning at the off guard spot and sophomore point 
see FLASH, page 11 

The Obocrver/Cbaltanya Panchal 

Tim Kempton bad 14points last ntgbtas the Notre Dame basket­ball team topped Northwestern, 79-6I, at the ACC to avenge losses each ofthe last twoyears to the Wildcats. Eric Scheuermann details the game at top left, Phil Wolf tells ofthefull-court press used by the Irish last night on page II andjoe Brunetti previews tomor­row's game with St. Francis (Pa.) at lower left. 
Alabama-Huntsville invades ACC for two games 
Irish hockey team has a score to settle with the Chargers; expects tough weekend series 

By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 

Alabama-Huntsville, the only team to sweep the Notre Dame hockey team last season will be at the ACC tonight and Saturday to take on the Irish. Both games will begin at 7:30p.m. and students are admitted free of charge with ID. 
With a 13-0 Central States Collegiate Hockey League mark on the line last year, Notre Dame arrived in Huntsville hoping to capture the league title. But before crowds of 5,930 and 6,530, the Chargers grabbed 6-5 and 6-4 decisions to take the crown. 
This season things are slightly different. Aside from the obvious fact that the Irish will have Alabama on their home ice for this rematch, the two teams are no longer competing for the same league championship. The Chargers are still in the CSCHL but Notre Dame is now a varsity independent. Nevertheless, after last year's two rough-and-tumble encounters, the two teams are not the best of friends. And the Irish would desperately love to even the score with their guests from the South. 
"Last year we had two close games and we didn't get along too well," said co-captain Brent Chapman. "We'd certainly like to beat them, but we'll have to play our best to do it. It would be great ifwe could get the same kind of student support that we had (earlier this year) for Penn State." 
Notre Dame comes into the series with a 3-6 mark. The Irish ended a six-game losing string with last Satur­day's 7-6 overtime victory against Air Force, and are hopeful that they have rectified the small problems that had plagued them during the losing spree. 
Alabama, on the other hand, enters the weekend's ac­tion with a 5-3 record. The Chargers split their season­opening series with Iowa State at Ames. They then lost two 4-3 decisions to Miami (Ohio). Both Penn State and Marquette have since tasted double defeats at the hands ofthe Chargers. 
Sophomore right wing Dave Wallenstein currently leads the Alabama scorers with nine goals and 12 assists. Brian Kelly, a senior center who led Alabama in the 1983-84 season with 35 goals and 3 7 assists, is also back to provide support this season. 
"Huntsville is a quick, aggressive and well-balanced team," said Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "They have been building their program for the last several years and they take their hockey very seriously. They will cer­tainly be very tough." 
In the last five games, Notre Dame has surrendered 39 goals while scoring just 20. The four goal per game average over that stretch would be good enough to win in most cases. Notre Dame has had problems, though, because ofinconsistent defensive play. 
"At first it was a matter of not being able to come out of our zone," said Smith. "Now we're not handling the rush. The defensemen have been a bit hesitant about forcing the play out near the red line. Overall we're just not playing the body both while forechecking and back­checking. We can't just make a swing at the puck; we have to take out the man. 
"We have been scoring well enough, but without defense it doesn't do much good. I would also like to see more scoring from our other lines. We've been count­ing too much on the first line of Chapman, (Tim) Reilly and (Tom) Mooney." 
Twenty-five of the team's 52 goals this season have 
come from the Chapman-Reilly-Mooney combination. 
In order to try to beefup the scoring attack, Smith has made some changes in the other three Irish lines. Mike McNeill will move back up to center from defense, where he has played for the last five games. He will skate between Steve Whitmore and Dave Waldbillig on the second line. 
Mark Anquillare will now center right wing Jeff Badalich and Pat Foley on the left side of the third unit. Anquillare moved in from center on the second line. 
see HUNTSVILLE, page 12 


