Beer Garten -Page 5 

VOL.XVIII,N0.102 the independent :-tudent Ill"\\ :-paper 'lT\ ing notrt dame and :-aillt man·, THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 1984 

By FRANK LIPO 
News.Staff 
Campaigning came to a close after yesterday's run-off election for the undecided Notre Dame student government positions. 
The run-off was necessary be­cause of the lack of a majority in Monday's election. 
Dean Christy's candidacy captured the senior class elec­tion with 53.9 percent of the vote. 
Christy's ticket is comprised of Ward Fitzgerald, vice president; Patty Cisle, secretary; and Rich Ir­win, treasurer. 
"The Mob" ticket of John Deckd received 46.1 percent of the vote. 
The winning Sophomore class ticket consists ofJim Domagalski, president; Anne Jennings, vice president; Dave Miklos, secretary; and Mark Foley, treasurer. 
Doug Honeywell won the off­campus commissioner election with 53.6 percent ofthe vote. 
62.6 percent of the present juniors cast ballots. 
Both candidates easily won their own dorms while Christy also carried Alumni, Walsh, and Zahm. 
Christy commented, " I want to thank everyone who gave us support throughout the election. I'm not only psyched but excite.d for next year and the Class of'85. It will be a year they will never forget." Christy added, it was a "great birthday present for my mother." 
Jim Gibbons, vice president for "the Mob" said, "We had a lot of fun with the election. We met a lot of people. We met enough girls for the next year." Dave Min­ion, "the Mob's" secretary added, "The bottom line was to meet 
see ELECTION, page 4 
Election Tally  
Class of 1985 Total V' Dean Christy 623 John Decker 533 Class of 1987 V' James Domagalski 656 Jeff Martello 540 0-C Commissioner V' Doug Honeywell 149 Jim Hagan 129  Percent 53.9 46.1 54.8 45.2 53.6 46.4  

53 senior votes missed in Planner 
ByTOMMOWLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Fifty-three votes from Flanner Hall were not counted by Om­budsman during Monday's Senior Class elections, but this did not affect the results of the election, according to Ombudsman Direc­tor Andy Tucker. 
"All the votes were there," he said, "but the vote counters seem to have stopped counting before they were finished." Tucker said he has been unable to reach the two girls involved, but said "neither were juniors and neit­her had an interest in the elec­tion. It does not appear vicious." 
The mistake was noticed by candidates Jerry Judd, of the Connie O'Brien ticket, and Kurt Shinn, of the Michael Schmutz ticket, both ofwhom live in Flan­ner, as do all of the members of John Decker's ticket, "the Mob." 
"Jerry and I looked at the count Monday night and thought it was low," Shinn said, "so we got signed petitions of people who swore they voted." Meanwhile, he said, Steve Sein, a Flanner judi­cial board member noticed that 113 juniors had voted according to the computer tally sheet used to mark voters' names. 
The original results listed only 62 junior class votes in Flanner. 
Flanner President Jack Seiler said this would have been an excep­tionally low turnout for Hanner, since there were six candidates from the dorm. 
Judicial-Board Chairman Dave Grote said he had made sure that the problem had not originalted in Flanner. He questioned ()bud's handling of the situation, saying, "You have to wonder how they found the ballots all of a sudden and why they were separated in the first place." 
While Seiler expressed satis­faction with Obud's work "after we informed them of the 
see FLANNER, page 4 
Committee to suggest '21' campus at ND next year, close source says '! 
ByMARK WORSCHEH 
News Editor 
Enforcement of a 2I-ycar-old drinking age on campus is the recommendation that the Commit­tee on the Responsible Usc of Al­cohol is planning to present to Provost Timothy O'Meara next week, The Observer has learned. 
A source close to the committee said last night that there will be some form of a "21" c&mpus next year. 
Father E. William Beauchamp, chairman of the committee, refused to comment on the recommenda­tion. "Until the report's done and made public, I don't have anything to say," he said. 
"We're not playing coy. If the trus­tees told us they want to see it first, then they have a right to sec it first," said Beauchamp. "If I could make it public tomorrow, I'd make it public tomorrow." 
"I would say yes, it's definitely a prime consideration," said Student Body President Brian Callaghan, a committee member. "There will be an age restriction definitely as it ap­pears now," he said, though he would not be more specific. 
Callaghan said students should not be surprised by the possibility of a "21" campus. "At each of the hall meetings it's been mentioned that age restriction is a prime considera­tion," he said. 
But Callaghan also said, "It leaves 
so many options open. It could go 
very lenient or very stringent. A lot depends on enforcement or the restrictions that are made." 
Beauchamp echoed Callaghan, saying the proposed alcohol policy should not be a shock to anyone. 
"In terms of moving off campus, students have already taken that into consideration," said Beauchamp. He does not believe that many students are waiting until the report is released before deciding to move, but he added, "Maybe I'm wrong on that" 
The committee still hopes to make the report public by April 1, five days before the deadline to revoke housing contracts t(Jr next year without losing the SSO room deposit and incurring a S I SO fine. 
Beauchamp said it is O'Meara's prerogative to release the report. However he also said, "I didn't write it (the report) for his personal fllc. It's not something we consider a little private report. It will be made public. I don't think there's any doubt about it." 
Formed last spring by O'Meara, the committee is one of the recom­mendations of the Nov. I982 Priorities and Commitments }or Ex­cellence report. 
Representatives from the commit­tee have spoken in most of the dorms on campus, and the commit­tee has sought opinions from faculty, parents and rectors. The commit­tee's report will be presented to the provost, and copies will be mailed to 
see ALCOHOL, page 3 
New admissions policy accepts students earlier 
ByJANE KRA VCIK 
StaffReporter 
For 625 prospective members of the Class of '88, the waiting for ac­ceptance to Notre Dame was over by the first week of December. Un­der a new early action plan, initiated by the admissions office this year, applications submitted by Oct. IS were acted upon by Dec. 7. 
950 applicants used the new pro­cedure this year. 625, or about 66 percent, were accepted. Director of Admissions John T. Goldrick com­mented, "We orily expected 400 or SOO applications. The performance of these applicants was substantially higher than that ofthe regular pool." 
The new plan was initiated so that 
applicants would be able to know if 
they are accepted earlier. Goldrick 
said,"We initiated this so that stu­
dents will be able to spend their 
senior. year without anxiety. We 
want to have the whole decision 
process in favor of the student" 
Goldrick said that wanting to keep the decision process in favor of the student contributed to the decision to keep the reply date ofall accepted students as May 1. 
Under the new plan, applications must be received by Oct. 15 and all supporting documents by Nov.1. "Those students applying under this new plan have to be satisfied with their junior year SAT scores because there is no chance for them to take them again. Also, they shouldn't need their first semester senior year grades (to strengthen their applica­
tions)." 
Presently, students applying un­der the regular plan must have their application and all supporting docu­ments on file by March I. They receive their replies on a rolling basis between Feb. 10 and April I 0. 
When comparing the applications received this year Goldrick com­mented that those received under the regular plan were "on the rung below, but still good quality." 
The -number of people appying under the regular plan is up this year by about six or seven percent. This means that between 6,600 and 6,700 people are applying. The total number of acceptances under both plans will be about 2,500. About 34% of those applying are accepted. 
SOO more applicants will be put on a waiting list. As those originally accepted make final decisions, ap­plicants on the waiting list are ac­cepted in order to keep the class size at 1 ,775. However, sometimes no 
' students are accepted from the list Commented Goldrick, "In '73, '74, and sometime around '80, we ac­cepted no one off the list. The most we've ever taken is 250." 
The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1984 -page 2 
In Brief Mardi Gras: A perfect party mix 
LSD is making a comeback among young 
pcopk ~a~~ the I1.S. Drug Enti>rn:ment Agency. As marijuana prices climb. it'~ becoming relatively more affordable. The DEA says Chicago. llos!On, llouston. Dallas, Miami and New York arc LSD hot spots. -The ()!Jsert•er 
Michael P. Kenahan, assistant director of develop­mt.·nt at DePaul l'niversity, has been named director of tinmdation and corporation rdations f(>r Notre Dame's Department of Public Rdations, Alumni Aff;tirs and Development. A native of Providence, IU.. Kenahan rt'lTiVl"d his undngraduatc dcgrt.T in American Studies at Notre Dame in I<P<J and a master's degree in communica­tion arts in I<JHO. lldi>n· joining the lkPaul stall in ll)H2 he served as a field reprl·~·ntativc for CARE in tht.· Indiana-Illinois area where he was rcsponsibk f(>r fundraising and public relations activities ofthe intnnational rdief agency. At Notre Dame he will maintain the Uni­versity's rdations with scores of foundations and corporations who assist in the llniwrsity's mission ofteaching, research and service.­
The Ohsertrer 
Graduate Housing Applications arc 
availabk in the ( Hlkc of Student Residences, Room :'>I c; of the Ad­
ministration Building. A graduatt.· housing lottery will he held Tues­
day, May H. All applications received before May H will he eligible. ­
1he ( Jl>setn•r 
Men who drink the equivalent oront.· can ofhc~:r a day, or more, arc three times more likely than non-drinkers to get cancer of the rectum. according to a new a study. The research also found that consumers of wine and whiskey arc more likdy to get lung cancer. hut gave no indication why. Several studies have shown a I ink hetwn·n alcoholusl· and cancl'f ofthe mouth and throat, hut the cvidl·nt.T associating boozt.· with other kinds ofcancer has been con­flicting. -AP 
Billyjoel's $2 million mansion was broken 
into ycstnday according to I.loyd Harbor N.Y. police. The accused .John Andreoli. 2:'>. of Deer Park, told police he was not a fan of the singer hut '"knew it was Joel's home and felt the need to be there," said Iktcctive Scott Forst of the Suff(>lk County Police Department. Tht.· oftkt.·rs t(>und the front door open and Andrt.·oli sitting at the bar drinking a beer. ·AP 
Of Interest · 
The Abiogenesis Dance Collective will 
present its spring concert '"Rhapsodic Repressions" today and tomorrow at H p.m. at the Haggar College Center. Saint Mary's. The group of sl·n·n dann·rs utiliZl'S elunents of jazz, modern and im­provis<~tional danct.·. Through the USl' of creative black and white costun1ing, dramatic mime-type make up, and a stark dance space, the group willt.·voke the rhapsodic repressions seen in everyday life. Music\\ ill he hy such contemporan artists as, Gan' Numan, Berlin and Thomas I>olhy. The performant..'e is free. -7he. Observer 
Former Solicitor General of the llnitnl States 
and Ia\\" I;Kulty member of the llniversity of Michigan, Wade :\ll'( :rn·. will speak Saturday, Mar..1 I at the Alumni banquet of tht.· Black Aml'fican Law Students' Association of Notre Dame. The event bt·gins at <> p.m. in the Monogram Room of the ACC. McCree has Sl'fvnl as a federal district judge and as a justice on the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals. The Wl'l'kend of activities includes a reception. luncht·on and organizational meeting. -The Obseruer 
The Saint Mary's Programming Board 
annourKt.·d at last night's meeting tina! plans for its junior date night. Coinciding with the Mard1 )0 Prest.-rvation llall Jazz Band Concert in <)'Laughlin Auditorium, a dinner will prn:nle tht.· concert, and a rt.Teption will follow. Tickets will go on sale after spring break for eight dollars a couple. Tl·ntative plans wl'fe discussed for the Saint Mary's lillie Sibs wet.·kt.·rlll schnlull'll for April6-R -The OhsetH'r 
Weather 
Continued winter today \\ith a high in the low .1os and a low in the tel·ns. The chance of snow is .:;o pl-rcent with ac­
nrmulation likl'ly. -riP 
The Observer 
Tht· Oh-.·rver ( l '"' '\<i<J l tlllltl I " 
puhJi,hn.J \lwu.la~ through J·nd.;n .md c11t hclntt.· lcullhall "•Hurd.t~~. t'~d.Tfll dunn~ t.·x.tm .md \'at at ion pc:ritH.b The Ohservt·r I!'> puhlt!'>hn.t lw thl' -.rudt·nt' ,,f rlw l nin:r..iq of ~orrc..· l>.amt.· .tnd ~a1111 .\1Jry·., ( ollt'Jott:. '-iuhM.:nplion., ma\ lH.· pun:lu!'>c.:d for Sl~ pt.T \car ( ~ 1~ pc.:r 't.·mt.·-.tt·r) h\ "ritin~ The Obsc.·rver, P () Box<). 'orn· l>amt· lndi;lllJ 1h~.:;c1 
The.· Ob~ervt."r i~ J rnl'lnhc.:r ufTht.' A!ot­socialed Press. All rc:produc.:rtoll riglu-. 
•trt· rc.:!'lt'r\'nl 
l'c u.la~ ·.., 1~Mil' \\ ·'' pruducnl h\·· 
A group of college students marches down a Mardi Gras parade route carrving plastic pipes adorned with neu•spapers and plumber's helpers. This so-called "Krewe of Plumbers and Broken Pipes" struck a responsive chord with New Orleanians who suffered in late December, when plunging temperatures caused pipes to burst and waterpressure to fall ci~vwide. 
ThefloatsoftheRexparadeslow­~J' move through the streets. The 13 parades held in the New Orleans area climax the carnival season bringing to an end parades andparties. 
ALL LATEST 
DIRECT 
SALES 
COMICS 
also hard to find back issues AVAILABLE THURSDAY AT 
6:00P.M. 
234-1038 
~J~~~:o~Jall 
STORE 1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, 234-1038 O,.n: MOt!. fllun. 1&-1. fri. 104, S.l. J.1 
Carnival madness in New Or­teems reached its peak Tuesth~}' as the Rex parade moved dou•11 fas­hionaiJ/e St. Charles Avenue. Rex and about a dozen other ex­travaganzas on Tuesday official~}' ended the Carnival season of panules and fam:v halls which began short~y after Neur Year's. 
Rex, King of Carnival, waves to his subjects on New Orleans world­famous Canal Street Tuesday. Fat Tuesday, or Mardi Gras, is the cul­mination of weeks ofparades and 
AP Photo parties in the Crescent City. 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for lfD/SMC students 
(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 
CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIBLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
CORKTOWNE
,. 
WINE 
LIQUORS, INC. 
1841 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
STATE ROAD 23 
v, MILE WEST OF MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET 
Andre Champagne 2tor$5 
BEER 
750ml 
Kayser Mich Lightcans 8.99
4.99
1.5 
Miller 7.99
Gallo 
Busch Kegs 28.99
Vermouth 
1.59
750ml 
Old Cusano Light 
Milwaukeequarts 7.49
1.99
750ml 
Bud QUARTs 9.99
Riunite Red White Lambrusco 2tor$5 BlueQuARTs 6.99 
ATTENTION: Seniors 
Stock up tor Spring Save money by ordering 
Break-Take advantage grad party supplies early 
of low Indiana Prices 
.... 
LIQUOR 
Fleischmann 
Pabst 6.99 Liebfraumilch 

Vodka  7.99,  
1.75L  
Seagram 7  11.99  
1.75[  
E&J Brandy  5.88  
750ml  
White Mist  
Gin  7.99  
1.75L  
Castillo Rum 1.75L  9.99  
Crown Royal 750ml  10.99  
Jameson Irish  
Whiskey 750ml  9.99 ....  


The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1984 -page 3 
Escaped convict captured in South 
Associated Press suffered a heart attack about one abandoned house. where Freeman 
MARION, N.C. -Police captured hour later at1d was later taken to was killed hy a police shotgun blast yesterday a dangerous escaped con­Marion General Hospital in critical who stormed it after he said he vict from Tennessee, hours after of­condition, said Assistant Ad­would not surrender, said Leonard. ficers killed his partner, a double ministrator Imogene Poole. Trooper Larry Carver of the state murderer who had eluded police in While Clegg was still at large, resi­Highway Patrol was wounded in the a shootout at a blind couple's home. dents of a Marion neighborhood shoulder by a stray blast fired by 
The fugitive, james Clegg, "is in voluntarily left their homes so police who trapped Freeman. The custody," said North Carolina High­police could search every house. blast came through the wall and hit way Patrol Sgt. Jeter Wilds. Details of The two men, both "armed and Carer, who was standing outside, the arrest were not immediately dangerous," escaped from a Tennes­said Leonard. released. see prison last month and had Freeman and Clegg escaped from 
Fellow escapee Ronald Lee vowed not to be captured alive. Tennessee's Fort Pillow State Prison Freeman, 4 I, was ,killed earlier yes­"We think Clegg is by far the most Feb. 18. On Feb. 21. officials said terday in a gunbattle with police in dangerous of the two men," said Freeman and Clegg walked out of an abandoned house. Police trailed McDowell County District Attorney woods near Brownsville. Tenn.. and him with bloodhounds from the Alan Leonard. shot to death a man grilling steaks in blind couple's home, where his backyard. They took his wife Freeman had broken in earlier. The Deputies shot at Freeman at the hostage and released her unharmed woman had a heart attack and one of Harvey home, but he escaped. Soon after telling her they wouldn't be the people who came to her aid after, an intruder broke into another captured alive. called the police. home and was shot with a .22­
Freeman broke down the door of caliber gun by the man who lived Clegg was serving a life sentence 
a blind couple, Rass and Molly Har­there, but police were unsure if it as a habitual criminal and Freeman vey, before dawn and demanded was Freeman, Clegg or someone was serving a 198-year sentence for food, said Jerry Knighton, the Har­else. the 1970 murders of his pregnant 
veys' son-in-law. Mrs. Harvey, 63, Bloodhounds led police to an wife and her stepdaughter. 
SMC student government evolving 
By ED KONRADY ters, which will go out "two or three justice, and the third working on Copy Editor times a semester," according to volunteer services. Franks, "to inform the students." 
"There won't be any big dif­
The restructuring of the Saint A resident assistant representative ference," said Franks. "We took the 
Mary's student government which will also be added to the Board of 
areas that were weak and combined 
began last year will continue, Governance. This representative and changed positions to make them according to Student Body will aid communication between 
more efficient." 
President-elect Lee Ann Franks. the student government and resi­Any changes made will he put to a 
"We are restructuring certain dent assistants. 
vote before the Board of Gover­
positions," said Franks, "basically so On the Programming Board, the nance and the Programming Board we can have a more efficient and position of graphics/publicity com­
at the end of the new government'scohesive board." missioner will be created. Her job year. in accordance with the Student The vice president for academic will consist of designing publicity, Government Handbook. 
affairs, which is now "a free-form assuring that publicity posters are
Programs at home Programs abroad Franks said Saint Mary's students 
0 Over ZOO graduate and undergraduate 0 Dijon, France-French position," according to Franks, will put in every dorm according to Saint 
had a voice in the changes. "Students courses 0 Leningrad, U.S.S.R.-Russian assume the duties of the alumni Mary's guidelines, and to insure that 
always have a say in anything we do
0 Approaches to Teaching Writing 0 Oxford, England-Business 
commissioner. the speaker commis­the publicity is effective. 
0 English as a Foreign Language Administration because the meetings are always
sioner, and the development com­Franks also mentioned another
0 Government Internships 0 Quito, Ecuador-Spanish open, although right n_ow I don't 0 High School Programs 0 Fiesole, Italy -Italian missioner. change she hopes to make -the 
think many students are aware of0 Intercultural Training 0 Trier, West Germany-German "It will give the vice president broadening of the athletic commis­
that fact.
0 Interpretation and Translation 0 Greece-Life and Thought 
some actual duties to perform," said sioner's job to athlet-ic/spirit com­
Institute "Anything that happens at the
in Ancient Greece 
Franks. "These three positions were missioner. A new emphasis would
0 Language Courses Board of (;overnance or the 
0 Literarv Criticism interrelated and it would be more ef­be on "helping support our varsity
Send more information: Programming Board goes back to0 Sacred Scripture Institute 
Name________________________ ficient to combine them.'' teams," Franks said. 
hall and class meetings. If the stu­
0 Parish Workshop 
The role of the Christian life com­
0 Washington Laboratory dents were opposed. it would come 
0 Writers Conference Address -------------------Franks, who is currently vice missioners is "still up in the air," back to us." 
president for student affairs, felt that according to Franks. She is propos­The changes will be taking place
Sessions 
---------ZIP____ there were areas where more ing that one Christian life commis­
on April I when the new officials
Pre-May 21-june 15 
representation was needed, so three sioner remain on the Board of
First-june !!-july 13 Call (202) 625-8106 or mail to: take office. Applications for the com­B-Week Cross Session-june 11-August 3 SSCE-Georgetown University new positions were created. Governance, with three other stu­
missioner positions will be available 
6-Week Cross Session-june 25-August 3 306lntercultural Center To the Board of Governance, a dents delegated to assist her without 
:vtonday at the Haggar College Cen­
Second-july 16-August 17 Washington, D.C. 20057 public relations commissioner will sitting on the board. One student 
ter. The deadline for returning them 
Gtor~tt..,., Uwivmil] is aw tqiiiJI opporiO•ity/affirmarivt IJ(/io• ill.fri/0/iDfl i• tmploymnol atul aJmissioo.r. be added. Her duties will be to put would be in charge of spiritual af­
is Friday, March 16. out student government newslet-fairs, another responsible for social 


Attention Juniors: 
Senior Class Trip to New Orleans Oct.20-28 
This package includes Possible Extras
*Round trip bus fare * Riverboat Cruise 
*6 nights/7 days in luxurious downtown ND Night at world famous 
Marriot Hotel Pat O'Brien's Club *All day World's Fair Pass *Friday Night Pep Rally 
*Ticket to LSU-ND footballGame * Saturday Social (Baton Rouge) (Sat., Oct. 27, 7:00pm) 
$100 Non-Refundable Deposit Due By March 30. Registration forms are available in the Student Activities Office and deposits can be taken. The week of March 25-30 there will be set times for deposit payment. Check later oapers for specific times and locations. 
Alcohol 
continuedfrom page I 
the  trustees  of the  l iniversity  for  
their comments.  
The  University's  current  rules  

governing the consumption of al­cohol are listed in duLac. the guide to student life. Rule 6 states: "The use of alcoholic beverages in moderation is accepted at this l'ni­versity. Alcohol may be consumed in private rooms in the residence hall and in other rooms in the halls but only in accord with guidelines established br the Office of Student 
Affairs." 
Individual student rooms as well as hall party rooms are considered to he private by the llniversity. 
In addition, the guide says stu­dents "should be aware of Indiana State Law. In summary the Indiana Codes provide for criminal penalties for a minor to purchase alcoholic beverages, to consume it, or to transport it on a public highway. (A minor in Indiana is a person under the age of 21. )" 


The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1984 -page 4 
MS drive hoping for Irish green 
By KARLA KEIM purpost· of planning a drive in con­jordan did not want to set a col­Neu•s Staff junction with the Shamrocks Against lection goal to avoid pressuring stu­Dystrophy campaign. dents to reach the specified amount. 
Shamrocks Against Dystrophy is a Letters were sent to each dorm's He hopes that this will encourage traditional drin· e~tablished hy the soda! commissioner asking tht·m to everyone to give what tht·y can. 1\hJ.~cular Dystrophy A~sociation to plan dorm events to raise money. Cannisters will also be placed celebrate St. Patrick's Day and Only a few dorms replied positively. around campus to encourage non­hendltthost· alllsctnl with muscular Thndore Jordan is stressing the students to contribute. They will he dystrophy and rdatnl neuromus­canniMer drive as the campaign's in the bookstore, the Huddle and cular dbt·ases. main event. Oak Room Cafeteria, the barber­
A cannistt·r drin· on t·ampus ha~ Approximately sixty volunteers shop, and the Irish Gardens. Cannis­htTII organiznl hy (;eorge Jordan. will collect money in the dorms ters will also be placed in the Haggar campus n·presentatiVl· of the South starting Thursday, March H through Center and the dorms ofSt. Mary's. lknd <>tlke of the Muscular Tuesday. March 15. Permission for the drive was ob­Dystrophy Association. Jordan or­Tht· money collected will go to tained from the Student Activities gani~:nl ;s committn· of ap­the South Bend offit.T where the Office. The event was presented to proximately st·vt·n stmh-nts ti1r the fund ust· will ht· determined. the HPC and received their support. 

Election 
continuedfrom paRe 1 
t.·hicks. We're proud of our showing. For four guys from Flan­nt·r without a platli1rm and with­out an lzod we thought we did pretty well." 
In tht· Sophomore class elec­tion, Domagalski rt't.'cived 'H.H pncent of tht· hallot:o. cast. The ticket of Jdf ,\lartdlo received 4S.2 pt•rt.Tnt of tht· vote. Again hoth t.·andsdatt·s carried their homt· dorm:. while Domagalski 
carrit-d Carroll. Lewis, Zahm, Walsh and St. Ed's. decisively. 
Domagalski was extremely pleased with tht· results, "We want to thank all of the people who supportt·d us. We took a per­sonal approach to tht· campaign. \\'e knocked on more doors than any otht·r ticket and explaiswd our platform. We ft:lr this con­vinn·d many pt·ople." 
Planner 
continuedfrom page 1 
prohlt-m." Shinn said ht· was "not 
plt-ased with tht· way it was 
handlt-d. 
"Tlwy wt·rt· too ~ure," he said. 
"that it wouldn't've happennl 
anywht-rt· dst·. But. I heard that 
St. Ed's had run out of hallots and 
that thrt•t· juniors wt·rt· turnnl 
away." This charge wa~ unahlt· to 
bt· vt·rillnl. 
Shinn abo t·xprt·ssnl doubt 
that Ohud actually linmd the mi~­
sing ballot~. "The final \'Ott•," ht· 
~aid. "~tTillt'll ju~t proportional 
to till' old." In addition, Ohm! 
reportnl two more \'ott·~ than 
Sdn had t·ountnl as hl'ing cast. 
TtH:kt·r downpla\'nl tlu· situa­
tion. noting, "If all the missing 
vott·s would'vt· gone to 
Schmutz." Tuckt·r notnl. "tht·n it 
would've mattert·d." since that 
would havt· given t•nough vott·~ 
to makt· tht· run-otl elt-ction in­
stead of( :hri~t y. 
Tut·kt·r said "wt· <:ht-ckt·d a 
littlt· mort· t·ard'ully tonight (in 
the ·run-off balloting)." hut 
added, "in 120 counts Monday 
and 72 mort· today. it only hap­
penl'll <lllt'l'... 
< >hud automatically recounts 
dt·ctions which arl· doM·r than 
I 0 votcs. Tut·kt-r ~aid. and in 
thost· ct~t·s tht·rt· b usually only a 
one·\'Ott• difft-rt'llt'l'. 
Shinn said ht· thought "li1r a 
major l'nin-r~it~. tht·rt·'s somt·· 
thing wrong with the voting sy~­
tnn ht·re. t'~(ll'l'iallv wlwn the 
dct ion~ art· ~o do~t·." Of the 
~ituation. (irott· not<·d. "mayht· it 
givt·s crl'lkllt'l' 10 tht· idea that 
the .I udicial Council should 
counttht· votes" in~tead of< >hud. 
The corret:t vote totals, with the incorrn·t tallies listnl firM. are: •John Carnnak: 5--1 
•Dean 
Christy: c; -I!. 

•John 
Dn:ker: .~6 -S'.> 

•Conn
it· O'Brit·n: I 0 -22 

•Michael 
Schmutz: H -I H 


Martello commented, "I want to thank everyone who sup­portnl our ticket. Without them we couldn't have gotten even this far. It was a karning ex­perience and we enjoyed met·ting and conversing with everyone. We thank everyone for their time and effort and we wish the Domagalski ticket luck." 
Ombudsman reported a 66.'.> percent turnout at the polls. 
In the oil-campus commis­sioner election, Honeywell defeated Hagan, S3.6 to 46.4 per­cent. Although voting in the dorms was relatively even, Honeywell carried the off­campus vott· by a 2-1 margin. Neither Honeywell nor Hagan were available for comment. 
Ombudsman Director Andy Tucker, who was in charge of the election, commented on the ekction turnout; "The run-off elections historically haVl' a smaller turnout." But added, "I can't understand how people: can 
Roundtrip bus tickets to Daytona for Spring Break Call Paul at 283-4358 
Thursday Special 
3-9 Mixed Drinks 2 For 1 9-3 Music By "Dewan" 
"MEET YOUR MAJOR" Sophomores and undeclared 
TODAY 
Department Room Time 
1\illerlCJn ~tud1es Room 331' O'Shaq 4:30-5:30 P~l Theo1o~_v Room 331 • O'Shaq 5:30-6:30 P~l M/1\t.rr-Room 104, O'Shan b: 30-7: ,, rr-1 r,, r.~ Room 104, fl'Shaq 7: 30-R: J:J P~' 

avoid passing through the lohbies of their dorms and take a minute to fill out a ballot." 
He was pleased with the off­campus turnout of72, which was 40 more than last year. ''They took it seriously this time." 
Tucker was impressed hy the 
I00 percent turnout of Zahm 
juniors for the Senior elections, 
something he has not seen since 
he has been working at Om­
budsman. There was an alleged 
IOH percent turnout about six years ago and this was understan­dably disputed. 
Tucker credited the smooth operation of the elections to the work of the hall judicial boards and the vote counters at Om­budsman. He stressed that their hard work was invaluable. 
The hectic days of posters and hand-shaking in every dorm are over for another year. 
Said Tucker with a smile, "It's 
over." 
Jackson in the South 
The Rev.]essejacksonflashed the victory sign to supporters as he left Lexington'sShiloh Baptist Church aftera speech Monday night. jackson was in town drumming up support for his Democratic nomination for president. jackson was also to speak in Louisville later in the evening. 

AKER'SiiKESHOP-inC! 
J 
~e~~i\\\\ Bicycles l 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~ 
-~ ... -••• ,. ..... 7 ....................... -••••• 

The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1984 -page 5 

Sorting it out 
Senior business majorBillKirk looks overthe books income tax forms. The program took place yesterday ofsenior Theresa Rogers as part ofan effort by busi­in the lobby ofLaFortune and gave special attention ness students to help undergraduates with their to the new 1040/ EZforms. 

Harvard this summer 
Academic Calendar: June 25-August 17, 1984 
mw 
H
arvard Summer School, the nation's oldest summer session, offers open enrollment in nearly 250 day and evening courses and pre-professional programs in more than 40 
w 
liberal arts fields. The diverse curriculum includes courses appro­priate for fulfilling undergraduate and graduate college degree requirements, as well as programs designed for career and 
professional development. The international student body has access 
to the University's outstanding libraries, museums, athletic facilities, and cultural activities, with the additional benefits of Cambridge and nearby Boston. Housing is available in Harvard's historic residences. 
Offerings include intensive foreign language courses, pre-medical, pre-law, business and computer science courses, and graduate level courses in education and manage­ment. 
For further information, return the coupon below or call: (617} 495-2921; 24-hour catalogue request line, (617} 495-2494. 
r------------------------------------------,
Please send a Harvard Summer School catalogue and application for: 
_ Arts & Sciences _ Drama _ Writing _ Dance Center 
Name -------------------------------------------------­
Street_~-------------------------------------------­
City StC~.te,-..~~ Zip------­Harvard Summer School 20 Garden Street, Dept. 276 Cambridge, MA 02138 
L-----------------------------------------­

An Tostal Beer Garten to leave Saint Mary's 
Ry P. A. CIMINO Notre Dame's An Tostal chairman Dave Jakopin said all the plans for·
News Staff 
this year's beer garten had been ar­

The: An Tostal bc:c:r garten will be: ranged and a proposal had been sent at Notre: Dame: this year or not at all to Dc:an of Studc:nts .famc:s Roemer. according to Saint Mary's An Tostal "I c:xpect a rc:ply in about two or organizer Mary Sue Dunn. thrc:c: days." said .fakopin. 
According to Lee Ann Franks, vil'c: The: proposal called for usc: of thc: presilknt of student affairs at Saint Senior Bar area and surrounding 
\ Mary's, this year it's Notre: Dame's grounds. Jakopin noted. however, turn to host the hc:c:r gartc:n. Saint he would not go into dt:tail because: Mary's An Tostal commission con­he did not want to jc:opardizc: the: curs despite Saint Mary's being the: proposal's chancc:s for appro\'al. traditional haven. Dean Ro~·mc:r also rc:fusnl to "After last year's bec:r garten. it make a commc:nt. "I have lool-.c:d at was decided that etch campus the proposal and have prc:parc:d a would alternate years." said Mary response:," s~id Roemc:r, "llowc:vc:r. Sue Dunn. one of the: Saint Mary's I fed it would he discourtc:ous tto students involved in An Tostal plan­that pc:rson (.Jakopin) if I rc:vc:al it ning. Dunn also stated the ad­without t1rst talking to him." ministration felt last year's bec:r When askc:d about earlic:r hec:r garten was crowded. Saint Mary's gartens Jakopin nott·d,"The turnout refused to assume responsibility for has always hec:n supc:r." lie also any accidc:nts which might occur mc:ntionc:d that there: would be two and also suggested this year's beer tents set up; one for alcoholic garten be held at Notre Dame. "We bevt-ragc:s and one which would will still play host to the other house: a musical group and all non­Thursday events," continued Dunn, alcoholic bc:veragc:s. All in all, he: but made it clear that the beer gar­c:xprc:ssed high hopc:s for an event ten was too be held at Notre Dame that would be: both wc:ll run and ac­or nowhere at all. ceptable: to the: administration. 
...................................~ 
: Buy 't 
: Observer · 
a classifieds* 
~··································· 
JOBS ARE AVAILABLE FOR MONTESSORI EACHERS -ONE OF THEM CAN BE YOURS! 
That's right. The demand for qualified Montessori teachers is not being satisfied. And we can easily prepare you for this rewarding career. Our proven program combines classroom study at the College of New Rochelle. N.Y. plus paid internship and continuing consultations. ­
You choose from the broadest range of American Montessori Society accredited programs available in the U.S. 
• 
Infant/Toddler-Birth to 3 years (the first accredited program for 

this age group). • Pre-Primary-3 to 6 years. 

• 
Elementary -6 to 9, 9 to 12 and 6 to 12 years. 


A Program Representative will be in South Bend/Mishawaka on March 11 and 12 at the Little Flower Montessori School to discuss the details with you in person. Call collect (914) 472-0038 Day or Evening to schedule a meeting for either day. 

MONTESSORI ~~~6~~~~~UCATION 
25 Roxbury Road, Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 



~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t__________________
Th-ur-sda-y,_M_Mc_h_8,_198-4--pa-ge-6 
Real men do not wear mittens 
(Tu•o students, Marg and Chris (a male), MARG: What is it? They send you your CHRIS: But you're missing the point, Mar_g. MARG: So, start a trend. This plan· could use are sitting inl.aForttme. They htwejust come favoritt·s? can't wear mittens. a little shake-up. _/1-om the post office u•here Chris has picked CHRIS: No. Would you look at this? (Chris CHRIS: You're crazy. My wearing mittens
MARG: What! Don't they fit~ Put them on. 
up u package sent to him hy his mother. ) lifts a pair of gray mittens from the isn't going to shake this place up. No one
CHRIS: (wbispering) Ssshhh! I'm not going
package. ) Mittens! would care. 
to put them on. And you know why. too.
MAR<;; Well. aren't you going to opcn it? MARG: Well, you don't have any, do you? MARG: You can't have it both ways, Chris.
You're just pretending that gloves and mittens
<:II lOS: I alrt·ady know what's in it. CHRIS: No, I don't. But I told my mothl'f that First you say you can't wear them 'cause 
are the same.
I'd lost my gloves. She said she'd send me a nobody else docs, implying that every,body
MARG: No, I'm not. I even explained to you
pair. would notice. Now you say nobody would
why mittens are superior! (laughing)
Michael Varga notice. Which is it? Huh?
CHRIS: I specifically told hergloves! 
CHRIS: I don't know. I just know I can't wear
MARG: \X'ell, she did! Where are the cookies? MARG: And she specifically sc:nt you mittens'
Eavesdropping What kind arc they? them. Here' (handing the mittens to Marg)
What's the dif! I thought you weren't like MARG: I already have a pair just like these.
CHRIS: These: aren't gloves! They're mittens! other guys, that you weren't trapped by some They're yours. (pushing them back across the 
MARG: So? (reaching inside the package) macho image. You seemed sensitive, in touch
MAR<;: What~ table to Chris, asshe snatches anotherOreo. )
Oh, Oreos! But some of them arc broken. If with yourself.CIIRIS: Couplc packagt·s of cookies, some CHRIS: Answer me honestly. What would
she'd wrapped the mittens around the CHRIS: I am sensitive. I am in touch with 
stamps and somc writing paper. you think of me ifl wore these mittens?
cookies, there wouldn't be so many broken myself. But that has nothing to do with
MAR(;: Are they sending you a hint' MARG: I'd think it was great. (Pause.) Just
ones. You can tell her that tor the next time. 
wearing mittens!
CIIIHS: I don't write homc much. ThlTe's just don't wear them when you come to pick me
CHRIS: There isn't going to be a next time. MARG: Au contraire, mon ami. Ifyou're not not much 10 say to them. up for a date! (laughing)
Mittens! 
man enough to wear mittens, if such a small
MAR<i: You shouldfind something 10 say to CHRIS: You see? You see! 
MARG: Better than cold hands! And you 
thing threatens your masculini~y, then I think
them. It's not everybody who gcts CAR!..' MARG: I was just kidding. 
know. mittens are actually warmer than you're a pretty shallow man. (munching on
packages around ht-rc. (pause.) Why don't CHRIS: Yeah. Sure. 
gloves. 
the cookies )
you open it? I could cat a cookie or two. 
CHRIS: How's that? 
CHRIS: I don't believe this. Look around this MARG: Since mittens keep all your fingers place. Every pair of mittens in this room is (Chris grabs the mittens and puts them
(Chris opens the package, ant/as he does so 
close together, they retain warmth much bet­proximate to some female. You won't find back into his package. He hemls out of
Marg notes a smile on hisface. ) 
ter. Only your thumb is a loner in a mitten. one guy with mittens. LaFortune into the cold -bare-handed. ) 

Golden things need not glitter 
I can rc:call the: timt· that my nose: was "All that is gold docs not glittt:r" _ Sure, it fraction of the attention that the girls next no usc to us. We push them aside, and should buried dcc:p in JH.R.Tolkkn's l.ord of The sounds profound t:nough, but how many ofus door do. we -God forbid -have to deal with them, Rings, whc:n I first encountered a poem that actually belic:vc: it? How many of us have the It appc:ars that there is a problem. The we treat them like children and talk to them in made: a dn·p impression upon me:. Only now, ability to recognize gold that does not glitter? couple must be socially deficient in some way. baby talk. several yt·ars aftt·r my encounter, am I bc:gin-We naturally, or rather, unnaturally, expect The fact is, the Norgards lack the quality es-Earl Norgard would burst out laughing ning 10 undt·rstand. beauty to come in finely wrapped packages or, sential to any recognized member of society: before your eyes, finding humor in your silli­
more realistically, in tightly fitting designer glitter. ness, your absurdity. He may be beyond sport­jeans. W c: unnaturally demand that our beauty Earl spends most ofhis time caring for Har-ing the Jordache look, but he could teach you
Timothy Gianotti 
bc young and unwrinkled, and that is fine. We riet, who is confined to a wheelchair, and visit-a thing or two about life. 
have a right to our own preferences and ing his buddies, who share the common Such people as Earl, Harriet or any of their Guest Column opinions, don't we? deficiency but pay a greater price. friends are delighted to befriend ignorant, I have no intention ofcriticizing the people They are tucked neatly away in the top cup-prejudiced youngsters such as ourselves -no 
and objects our Western preference favours. boards of society where we can forget about matter what our age -and just be friends. 
The t1rst lint·, also the most important, gocs Rather, I intend to point out the people we them. They are imprisoned in so-called Their gifts, drawn from a wealth of cx­like this: "All that is gold does not glitter." It is exclude -those persons whose beauty is "homes for the elderly," "adult communities" periem:e and an odd love for life, can enter a powt·rful ~tatemt·nt in a society such as ours. denied or ignored. and "rest homes" where most of them are our minds and hearts just as our gifts -the 
Savage tans, the Jordachc look, Mercedes, I raise my voice on behalf of those who fall miserable. emotional ups and downs, the naivity, the t1tnt·ss centt-rs. Calvin Kkin, Brook~ Bros., victim to our cruel axe of fear and ignorance. Many of these people, at least in our terms, liberal points of view -challenge them to he Polo, a ~port~ car -tht·se art· tht· images of But kt's not get lost in abstraction and metap-do not strike us as pretty. I chuckle at the alive. beauty in our world. For we Amt·ricans, the hor. thought of Earl trying to squeeze his com­Let a sparkle in an old man's eye be your glitter is ofit·n more important than the gold. fortable paunch into a pair of Calvin Kleins, reward. This is the gold Tolkien is talking 
l lmkrnt·ath all of this commc:rcial makeup, Earl Norgard is a veteran of World War One and I doubt that any woman in her mid­about, that intricate, mysterious stuff craftc:d I wonder if there is any gold at all. America and is eighty-six years old. His wife, Harriet, is eighties is up to appearing in the swimsuit by the gods. tkspnatdy rwcds an education. Particularly of the same age (although she did not fight in issue ofSports Illustrated. Earl and Harriet Norgard are two real in the disc:iplinc of beauty, we are an illiterate the war). Both are intelligent, witty and Thus, American logic in its purest form people who reside in a real house in Portland, nali<>n. delightful persons, but they do not receive a leads us to conclude that these people are of Oregon. They are my next-door neighbors. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Race over? 
I )ear Rditor: 
BdiJrt· Mit·hael llant·y invests in tickets to till' I 'JH'\ Reagan-Bush Inaugural. he would do wdl to remember that popularity with the \mt·rican electorate is a notoriously tkcting .md unpredictable phenomenon. 
Last Tut·sday's Nt·w llampshirc Democratk primary dcction providt·d the latt·st object ksson in the peculiar whimsicality of the American vott·r. On Feb. 21, an ABC­Washington Post poll showed 41 percent of Nt·w llampshire Democrats favoring Walter .\1ondalc:, and 10 pt-rtTnt bt·hind Gary Hart. Yet. hardy one week later, llart trounced \1ondalc, winning :N pern·nt of the vote, whitt-Mondale <:ould musteronly 2"' percent. 
Thomas llart Iknton was right, over a cen­
tury ago, wh<.·n ht· sc:offcd at "the bubble of 
popularity which is won without nu-rit and 
lost without crime... 
Tht· Ikmocrats arc "without any major campaign issues"? llant·y must surely be put­ting us on. Ronald Rt·agan has saddkd this country with the l:trgcst Federal deficit in its history. Tht· American tratll-detkit stands at a ~·rippling 5"'0 billion. The president has promisc:d to try and carve up entitlement programs if he is re-t:kcted. 
He has dftTtivcly ruined the Lt:gal Services Corporation. Taxes owed by the rich have bn·n slasht·d, while the ranks of the tuly poor continue to expand. Reagan has all but destroyed American prestige in Europe. the Middk East. Latin America and Africa. 
The statesman of the world snicker dis­
crn·tly at an American president who con­
tinually "misstates himself," dozes off at 
international confen·nn·s. and seems unahlt­citht·r to grasp the major issues or even tout­ter a simple declarative sentence. 
Michael Haney ought not to "tune out" the campaign so early. The Amc:rican people will have plenty to think about before November. 
Rev. Isaac Me Daniel, O.S.B. 
Synchronize 
Dear Editor: 
Saturday, I planned to be a dinner throat and arrive at the dining hall at '5 p.m. (on the dot). Since it takes t1ve minutes from the time I kavt: my room to get there, I left when my dock (set to the time the telephone operator gave me) said 4:5'5 p.m . 
I was neither hampc:red nor hurried on my way and was surprisc:d to find I arrived seven minutes too early (according to one of the clocks in the dining hall). I became confused wht·n I realized I was actually 20 minutes too late for even table scraps (a different dock in the dining hall said it was now 6:'\0 p.m.) 
This bizarre incident is not a rarity. The dock in P.W. is six minutes too fast, the dock on O'Shag differs from tht· one on Sacred Heart Church, and ... 
We all know that syncronization is far too drastic a measure to consider. Perhaps it's time for a campus-wide implementation oftht· solution usn! in LaFortune -physical removal ofthe clocks. 
Karen Golden 
Drunkenness 
Dear Editor: 
The whole question here seems to be the immorality of drunkenness. Well if drunken­ness is the issue isn't that an indictment of all alcohol in general since it all leads to intoxica­tion? 
Yet ifall alcohol were banned wouldn't this include sacrificial wine? And in point wasn't it Christ himselfwho produced sizable amounts for some sloshed wedding celebrants? (Please hum Amazin' Grace) 
Well I for one am not going to stand here and allow you to bad mouth Jesus Christ and Christianity. Gentlemen! Let us take leave and go 0-C. I guess now we're on Double Secret Probation, or Prohibition? 
value which I am not inclined to belittle; it tells (a person) a great deal about how things work in nature or in engineering: but it tells him nothing about the meaning oflife and can in no way cure his estrangement and secret despair." 
Thomas P. Fleming 
Social life 

Daniel Maier DearEditor: 
Frosh physics 
Dear Editor: 
Doctor James Carberry, in his column about the engineering program at Notre Dame, correctly notes that physics is "a mag­nificent discipline in the spectrum of Liberal Education." 
Too many students in our College of Arts and Letters fail to appreciate the importance of the natural sciences in a truly liberal educa­tion. 
That he equates "ignorance" ofthe world of 
Newton with "innocence" of the world of 
Dante, Shakespeare and Marx compel me to 
respond, however, with this perceptive ob­
servation of E. F. Schumacher: 
"The Second Law ofThermodynamics is no­thing more than a working hypothesis suitable for various types ofscientific research. On the other hand -a work by Shakespeare: teeming with the most vital ideas about the "inner" development of man, showing the whole grandeur and misery of human existence. How could these two things be equiv­alent? . . . Science cannot produce ideas by which we could live . . That study has its own 
I am glad the University is going dry, since this most certainly will solveall the social and alcohol-related problems we now have. 
Just think of how much the social life will improve without weekend parties. For those who insist on partying, they can take ad­vantage of the world-famous South Bend nightlife. 
There are other suggestions I have for improving life at Notre Dame: 
(I) Put up more ofthose lovely wires along the sidewalks so we don't have access to those: ugly open areas on the quads. 
( 
2) Limit parietals to only a couple ofhours on weekends. Having the opposite sex in the dorm only reminds us of the campus social problems. 

( 
3) Have assigned scats in the dining haiL Random seating only creates unnecessary so­cial interaction and chaos. 

( 
4) Ban that loud rock music. If it worked for the Ayatollah. it can work for Notre Dame. 


These arc just a few suggestions that can begin to solve all the'prohlems that face this University. Implementing these ideas is a must if the University expects to progress as we en­ter the twenty-first century. 
Matthew W. Tou•s!' 

l_­

• 111: 1.1.'1-1. ... 
"ieVVP..O._in_.t_____________________________________________T_hu·r-sd_a_y_,M_~__ch--8,_1_9_84---p•a•g•e-7 


Behind the Catholic mask 
The administation and Board of Trustees have perpetrated one grand marketing scheme. They have painted the face of this small midwestern university with the mask of a great Catholic institution. 
This facade has, in a large part, been a 
David Grote 
Out of Turn 
byproduct of the personality and charisma of one man, Father Theodore Hesburgh. Though Hesburgh has been responsible for vast im­provements in the quality offacilities, faculty and scholarship, he has failed to produce a great Catholic university. 
This argument does not contest the great­ness of Notre Dame, although that could very well be done. Rather, it questions the Notre Dame's character as a Catholic institution. The way the University's fmances are run, its treatment of the current alcohol controversy 
"Ifyou vote for me the country's future will 
improve dramatically." "Vote for us. We have the experience." These are common statements right now 
and they remind us that it is campaign time at Notre Dame and also out in the "real world." It 
Mark Boennighausen 
Opinion 
is the time ofyear professional politicians and budding student politicians bombard us with their qualifications and new invigorating ideas. 
It has been said, "politics is the art of the possible." It seems, however, that campaign politics revolve around making the impos­sible appear possible. 
If we recall the 1980 presidential election, 
then-candidate Ronald Reagan promised to 
cut taxes and increase defense spending sub-and its involvement with the military through its large ROTC program all seriously question Notre Dame's "Catholic" label. 
A glaring example of how Notre Dame un­dermines its right to be labeled "Catholic," is the investments the University maintains in segregated South Africa. 
A truly Catholic university should not be party to the hatred, the prejudice, and the af­front to human rights that is the all-but­Christian character of the South African society. The university's position on this issue reflects a businesslike attitude, not a Christian one. 
Investing in the economy ofSouth Africa is 
paramount to affirming the moral legality of 
the apartheid system. If apartheid is morally 
wrong, then so is investing in the economic 
community which imposes it. Somehow a 
Catholic university should have a higher call­
ing. 
In the current alcohol controversy, the ad­
ministration has created the perception that 
alcohol abuse by students is the primary issue. 
stantially while at the same time balancing the budget. Through his unique communication skills Reagan made this impossible task seem possible to a majority of the American elec­torate. 
One cannot, though, confine this camapign style to the Republicans. In presidential can­didate Walter Mondale we have the quintes­sential campaign politician. From all we hear about his campaign, it appears Mondale has promised everything under the sun to every interest group in the regular Democratic coalition. 
More money for education, protection from unfair foreign imports, a strong but leaner national defense, and more money for government social services are but a few of Mondale's promises. He will do all of this, of course, without major tax increases and while at the same time cutting into the ballooning federal deficit. 
Stated like this, Mondale's platform appears impossible, but wrapped up in campaign rhetoric it somehow comes across as vaguely possible. 


P. 0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 ( 219) 239-5303 
The Ohsen•er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l'ni­versity of Notre Dame: du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objcctively as possible. l'nsigned editorials represent the opinon of a majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all men:~bers ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
In view of the administration's past perfor­mance, this is a difficult position to accept. 
A more believable explanation of the al­cohol controversy is that the pressure being felt under the Golden Dome, from both the Indiana state authorities and from the liability guidelines stemming from recent lawsuits, have fmally become too severe to ignore. 
Why can't the administration just Clmle out and say that the risks involved in allowing un­derage drinking on campus, have just become too great? Why can't they blame it on the legal system? It would be so much easier. Why are they trying to fool the students into thinking that they are doing it out ofconcern for them? 
Many students at this university are en­rolled in the ROTC program. They are taught how to kill other human beings efficiently, using a wide assortment of weapons. Since when has Christ been a soldier? That was not in the New Testament. How is the knowledge to kill ofChristian value? 
Jesus Christ abhorred violence. He 
When we leave the national scene and turn to class officer elections on campus the stated goals are less far-reaching but they are very interesting and in may instances quite en­tertaining. 
One particularly fascinating promise ap­pears on almost every class officer ticket. The goal as described on these ticket's posters is: "to promote class unity." 
What is class unity? Is it a special feeling we 
are supposed to possess? When we stumble 
out of bed in the morning should we ex­
perience a special karma between ourselves 
and the rest ofour classmates? 
For some reason it is hard to grasp the con­cept ofclass unity. It must be a terribly impor­tant goal if almost every class officer ticket endorses it, but it seems anything that is im­possible to define would be even more dif­ficult to promote. 
Besides this general theme of class unity, a specific slogan by a class of '85 ticket caught my attention. At the top and bottom of this ticket's poster is the bold statement: "The Im­pact Never Fades." 
denounced militant Jews who visioned the messiah as a great general, as someone to lead 
the  Jewish  people  in  revolt  against  the  
Romans.  
Jesus  Christ  would  never  kill  another  

human being, not even in self-defense. Jesus Christ died on the cross because it was part of his character, the Christian character. 
How does a Catholic university justify its involvement in the ROTC program and in military research, while at the same time leading the charge for nuclear disarmament? This implies that while nuclear weapons are morally unacceptable, M16 rifles are. 
Notre Dame should start realizing that there is more to being Catholic than being run by an administration made up ofpriests, with­out federal subsidies. 
A Catholic university should be one which does something because it is the Christian thing to do, not simply because it is good busi­ness. Or have I been confusing the term Cath­olic with Christian? I though that Catholicism implied Christianity. 
Obviously the senior class officers are im­portant as the people elected organize reunions and ..are responsible for keeping track ofthe class members, but this slogan is a bit pretentious. 
I don't know about the rest of the class, but 15 years down the line I think the impact of how I voted or who was elected might stan to fade. Indeed, when I am married and have 2.5 kids, a house in suburbia U.S.A., and two cars (one, ofcourse, being a wood-paneled station wagon) the impact, for me anyway, could begin to fade. 
Such exaggerated statements, though, are part of any campaign and they do add im­mensely to its entertainment value. 
Another part ofcampaigns, although maybe 
not a very interesting part, are the articles that 
appear concerning a particular campaign. 
These pieces increase as a campaign goes on 
and even after an election is over. In fact, 
readers often wonder ifthese pieces ever end. 
Yes indeed, the campaign season -making 
the impossible seem possible. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn NewsEditor.................................Bob Vonderheide NewsEditor....................................Mark Worscheh SaintMary'sEditor..................Anne Monastyrski SportsEditor .................................Michael Sullivan ViewpointEditor ................................Keith Picher Ft!atures Editor...............................Sarah Hamiltcm Photo Editor..........................................Scott Be m-er 
DepartmentManagers 
Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen Controller...............................................Alex Szilvas Ad1•ertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole Circulation Manager.... . ............ Mark Mic>tto \)'Stems Manager ............ .............. Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3, 1966 

I 
Thursday, March 8, 1984 -page 8 
Sports Briefs 
Stepan Center will be closnl for rt·creation through Saturday, March 10. The Bengal Houts will he going on during that time. -The Ohsert•er 
ND Water Polo Club has bcgun practices at the R<Kknc Mcmorial Pool. All intcrcstcd people arc invited to attend. 
-The Ohsert•er 
A camping and backpacking clinic will 
bt· held Monday, March 10 in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. The instructors are from the Outpost Trading Center. Anyone who wishes to learn how to camp and backpack is cncoraged to attend. ­
The Obsert'er 
The NVA Fitness Screeningstill has some open times available. Call Sally at 239-6690 for more information. -The Ohseroer 
Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be hetd this Saturday, March liJ, from 2-4:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. Please enter O'Shag through the big doors facing the quad. The tournament entry fee this year will be S5 and the commis­si<mers would like to remind everyone that no names containing vulgarity or personal attacks upon other students will be accepted at the time of registration. -The Observer 
NVA deadlineshave been set. The last day to sign up for interhall baseball, interhall 12" softball (men's and women's), and women's interhall soccer is tomorrow, March 9. For more details, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
A chance to even record 
It has been nearly three months since the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball ream has had a winning record, but tonight Mary DiStanis­lao's Irish will get their chance to get above the.500 mark as tht·y travel to Chicago to take on Loyola-Chicago. 
The task will not be easy, though. Marty llawkins' Lady Ramblers have clir>chcd the North Star Conference titlc with their H-1 lcaguc record (Notre Dame is second at 5-3). Loyola has not lost at home this season and its 16-game win streak earlier this season was one of the longest in Division I this year. 
The Ramblers, who stood at 21-4 following last weckend's loss to Detroit, arc led by a solid lineup of Kathy Anderson, Kathy Leyden, jacki lluszti, Lisa Kasprowicz, and Faith Mimnaugh. Leyden, a guard, and Anderson, a forward, both average about 13 points a game to lead the Ramblers. Anderson and Huszti arc the leading rebounders. while Mimnaugh is the catalyst of the team, dishing off almost I 0 as­
sists a game. 

The Obserr•er Notre Dame officto, located on the third floor of l.al'ortune Student Center, accepts classified advtortising from 9 a.m. until .f p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's office, I<Kated on the third floor of Haggar Collt:ge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though l'riday. Deadline for next-day cla"ifit·d, i' 3 p.m. All classit1eds must be prepaid, eithtor in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents pt·r fivt· charat··
Classifieds 
ters erda·. 
NOTICES 
Are you 1n need ol FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Tra1mngl Challenge' Ad· venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! ARMY ROTC! See LTC Bob Sk1nner or CPT Anne R1eman 1n Ihe ROTC BUIIdong (239­6264) 
PRO-TYPE -Over 12 yrs. expenence typ1ng d1sserta11ons. manuscnpts. and student papers Call277-5833 
ENOUGHIll Hey guys, cool~ w1th fhe sweats and JBCk­ets. okay? II was ONLY the Liberty Bowl! 
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5 30 
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE ­277-6045. W/p1Ck up & deliVer 
The Madman school of dnv1ng. lesson 4 Never foUow a car with the word WANDER" pnnled on 11s license plate 
ATIENTION TO ALL THE PEOPLE WHO KNOW MAUREEN AKA CARROT­TOP CARROT-TOP WOULD LIKE EVERYONE TO KNOW THAT SHE IS OFFICIALLY GIVING UP THE CANCER STICKS, AND SHE WOULD LIKE YOUR HELP TO OVERCOME HER ADDIC­TION 
BISHOP GUMBLETON·NO HE HAS NOT RETURNED FOR ANOTHER LECTURE BUT IF ANYONE TAPED HIS TALK ON THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN THE CHURCH" PLEASE CONTACT M SCHMID 239-7757 
ATIENTION CLASS OF 1987111 
VOTE THE HAPPENIN' TICKET FOR 
1964·85' 
Wnte us 1n tor sophomore class oligarchy. 
so we can pultl on our resumes. 
TOMMY MCHUGH 
MIKIE O'GRADY 
·DANNY TANCZOS 
STEVIE KRANZ 
DEDICATED TO LAZINESS AND 
APATHY FOR '114-'85 
Mov1e Amencan Werewoll1n London 
Fn & Sal. 7.9.11 
Sponsored by K of C 
$1.50. Members free 
Roundtnp bus 11ckels to DAYTONA BEACH lor SPRING BREAK call PAUL al 4358 
NY METRO CONNECTICUT NY METRO Spr1ng Break stops in NYC Whrte P1a1ns Fa1rf1eld call272-9284 or 1002 
LIFE IS MADNESS LIFE IS MADNESS LIFE IS MADNESS LOVE IS DUM!l 
SAN DIEGO· Alders Needed one way. $30 call Bob or Don 9897 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES mgh1 cocktail wanress,day wartperson. day utilily.APPL Y WHARF RESTAURANT 
$1.60 off any large pozza at LOUIE'S, CO<· ner of N.D & S.B. AVE.: open Thur lhru 
Sat. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST a gold Smith-Corona electnc lypewnter 1n black carrytng case!! It was losl 1n Zahm Hall Please return. If found please call8875 or 8876, or relurn to Lost and Found 1n the Admin Bldg. Thank you 
REWARD lor return of bookbag w1lh EE books 1ns1de losl 2/21 al Soulh D1n1ng Hall Call ED at3110 
kisl palf Bl~~k s~;~n~~Skl Glov~s;~ i()4 Hurley March 1 Call Dave 8728 
LOST; STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. ALL WOOL. PULLOVER. I LOST IT 2 OR 3 WEEKS AGO. IF FOUND. RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND ON FIRST FLOOR OF AD· MIN. BLDG. OR CALL BUDDY AT 8278 ANYTIME. REWARD. THANK YOU. ST. A.P.F.U. 
FOUND · One paiT of woman's eyeglasses Claim at The Commons. 
FOUND: ONE SCHOOL RING WITH IN­SCRIPTION AVE MARIA. ONE STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. AND ONE RED AND GRAY SCARF. FOR LOST ITEMS CALL ON SAINT ANTHONY (1536) THANK YOU VERY MUCH 
• 
Lost. Prescnptlon Sunglasses. Brown Ray-Ban Wayfarer Frames W/ Purple Tinted RX Lenses II you can'l see w/ lhem on. lhey're probably mine. CASH REWARD. Call Boat t615. 
LOST Gold chain bracelel of great sen­tomenlal value. Sal. 3/3. on ND/SMC campuses If found. PLEASE call (SMC) 4275 
LOST Managenal Econ book (CHO) probably 1n bus1ness bldg 1f lound call 6701. lhanx. 
WANTED 
SOPHMORES! Interested 1n becom1ng an Army Off1cer? lnleresled 1n Scholar­Ships? See LTC Bob Sl<1nner or CPT Anne R1eman on lhe ROTC BUIIdong (239­6264) 
RIDE NEEDED TO ATLANTA FOR SPRING BREAK-WILL SHARE EXP DOROTHY a1SMC 5259 
BOSTON FOR BREAK! I NEED RIDE­MIKE6756. 
Need nde tor 2 lo NYC area tor spring break. Deb SMC4265 
NEED RIDE TO DC tor Spring Break. Will share usual. Call Monica 284-5451 
NEED RIDE:For Spring Break to Per>­MCOie or ALIM~n• Cout Will share expenses-call284-5177 
NEED RIDE TO DENVER any time after 2:30pm. Thursday for Spr1ng Break. Call SUE 283-6280. 
WANTED: A RIDE TO FT. LAUDERDALE, FLA. FOR 2 PEOPLE WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES CALL USA (7178) OR LAURIE (211&­3289) 
RIDERS needed for break to JAX FL area lhru ATLANTA call Chuck 1722 
NEED 1 RIDER TO EAST PA. ALLEN· TOWN/READING AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. LEAVING 3/16. CALL DEAN. 8651 
RIDE NEEDED TO LAUTERDALE ON 3/1611 CALL MICHELLE 8136 
Alders needed lo D.C. orUVa Call Jim 8437 
Ride Needed lo NYC/North. NJ (off 1-80) lor SPRING BREAK. Call BILL at 8895 or 8897-wtll share usual. 
RIDE NEEDED TO CINCINNATI LEAVING THURS 3/15 AFTER 2:30PM. WILL SHARE USUAL LISA 2734 
RIDE NEEDED DETROIT -BILL 8437 
SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? I need a ride to Syracuse or Rochester for Spring Break. Will share expenses. Please call Debbie 284-4311 
BALT I DC. A1de needed for Spring Break. Call Gary al 1027 
WANTED Horse Anendants to nde and show (English Hunt Seat) in exchange tor lighl general labor Must be 18 and have transportallon Wflte T. Engstrom. 3260 YankeeS!.. N1les. Ml49120byMarch 16. 
R1de needed lo Lauderdale for break call Mary 1361 
Riders needed lo NO from WASH DC area after break 3/25 in lux van 4 riders needed call John 3039 
NEED RIDE FOR 3 TO WASH DC AREA LEAVING FRI FOR SPRING BREAK CALL KEVIN at8214 
Need fide to NYC tor spr1ng break M1ke 1387 
RIDERS NEEDED TO'D.C. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARTY AT 3234 
Roundlrip bus lickets lo DAYTONA BEACH tor SPRING BREAK call PAUL at 4358 
NEED TWO RIDES TO NYC OR U. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME 3/16. CALL3708 OR 3436, PLEASE. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO BAL T.ID.C. AREA CALL DAVE 8831 
Rtde to PA on Turnpike, Breezewood to Harnsburg Can leave early 3/16 CALL MAT 8689 
Need ride lo CHARLOTIE N.C. Please call CHAPIN at 1649 (LATE) 
RIDERS needed tram Rochester. NY back to NO on Sunday. March 25. Call Mike8255 
HELPII DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO NYC AREA FOR TWO. ONE-WAY. WILL SHARE EXPENSES AND CC COOKIES. CALL DONNA 6847. 
2 RIDERS NEEDED TO JACKSON­VILLE/DAYTONA CALL 6879/6877 
FOR SALE 
Want to know what's really going on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper ol the U.S. Church. For sub­scriplion information and a tree sample copy, call Paul at 277-4851. 
FOR SALE. BRAND NEW TYROUA 380 RD BINDINGS $100 CALL DAVE 8810 
FOR SALE. AKAI RECEVER. AKAI IN­TERGRATED AMP. AKAI TURNTABLE AKAI SPEAKERS: $800 OR BEST OF· FER. 289-4454. KEN BEFORE 3:00 
ATARI400 COMPUTER W/ EXPANDED MEMORY 48K. PLUS RANA 1000 DOUBLE DENSITY DISK DRIVE. BASIC CARTRIDGE & JOYSTICK. $575 NEGO­TIABLE. 289-2646 
FOR SALE. GREEN OVERCOAT. 
LARGE. IN VERY GOOD CONDITION MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER· CALL PATIY AT 8654 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE: 4 TICKETS TO YES CON­CERT FRIDAY MARCH 9 AT ROSEMONT HORIZON. CALL JED AT 12450R 1670 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N . ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
DEAR BEAUTIFUL ONE MORE WEEK SEE YOU FRIDAY LOVE YOU SO MUCH 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIIIIIII 
LEE'S BBQ ANNUAL RAFFLE. 1st prize 6 Rib lip dinners. 2nd prize 6 Mim tip din· ners. For sale al Lee's or from NO/Lee's employees. 
Real Programmers don'l wnle in BASIC. Actually. no programmers write in BASIC after the age of 12. 
Louisville, KY 
Aide needed from Lou1sville somet1me belween March 19-21 tor one. Call Nick al 1426. Early evenings best 
HiEdl 
GP: DoGJWTHF????O.W. 
NEED A RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE WED AFTER­NOON CALL CELESTE AT 7972 AFTER 7PM 
Allii~RICANS WITH HART NEEDS YOU. CALL JOHN AT 3377 OR BERNIE AT 1770. 
GERMAN CLUB PARTY GERMAN CLUB PARTY ALL MEMBERS WELCOME AT BULILA SHED ACROSS JUNIPER FROM P.E. 7-12 FREE 
Whalever happened to Boris Love? 
4 RIDERS NEEDED TO SUNNY FT. LAUDERDALE FOR SPRING BREAK WE'VE GOT PLENTY OF ROOM IN OUR VAN! CALL JOHN OR ROB all 088 
THEOLOGY ... "Meet Your Major": Today-March 8, 5:30-6:30 p.m., room 331 O'Shaugnessy ••. refreshments. 
Patnck" gave me nightmares. Mike, what should I do? CHILL OUT? /L 
JOHNNY BELINDA', MARCH 7 & 8 at lhe CSC. 7:00 & 9:00pm. Oscar winmng Jayne Wyman plays a deal-mule who is the v1ctom of a brutal rape. AdmiSSIOn IS free. 
CLEVELAND CLUB -Sign-ups tor BUS tor Spring Break tonight from 6:30· 8:00pm in LaFortune-$30.00 Round Tnp -bring your $30.00 lonighl. 
WAKE THE KIDS... CALL THE NEIGH­
BORS... YOU WON'T WANT TO MISS 
THIS ONE THE FIRST ANNUAL 
ARIZONA CLUB SPRING HAPPY 
HOUR FRIDAY 4-6 HOLY CROSS HALL 
IF YOU ARE FROM ARIZONA. HAVE 
EVER THOUGHT ABOUT GOING TO 
ARIZONA. OR KNOW WHERE 
ARIZONA IS. YOU ARE WELCOME! 
CALL JEFF AT 31551F YOU HAVE ANY 
QUESTIONS OR PROBLEMS SEE 
YOU FRIDAY! 

To TOM AND MATI of 145 Cavanaugh THANKS FOR SERVICES RENDERED! Love. ME 
Sat Night TACO and BOAT CLUB: Going lo Ohio? Keep your FOOTLOOSE and avo1d all lemale bar-brawlers. Where to lhos weekend? Jim G. and MVD 
HEY GUYS! Garol R. needs kiSSing bad­lyl She IS looking tor a Rhen Buller type BUT, a bad kisser is better than none! Thai's 303 Walsh Hall. Carol's little matchmaker 
Words of discouragemenllor Noire Dame females: Beauty is only skin deep, but UGLY goes clear down to the bone! 
JMG. Happy 20th Sweely! Hope th1s day is one-tenth as happy as all of m1ne have been s1nce we·ve mel. Love Always JJB 
Sexy Sue. lfs MILLER TIME' Male Domers call284-5460 and w1sh Sexy Sue a Happy Birthday! 
Bea. Keep Your Chin Up! Love you. LZ. 
Dear Joan. DON'T DO IT! Love GOD 
Who is Phil Osophy and why is he tormenting me? 
Army. How do you spell s-o-p-h-0-m-o-r­e?Navy 
Erin and Debbie--Looking forward to go1ng out to dinner with you on Friday. Love. your racquetball partners. 
OFF CAMPUS HOCKEY TEAM-­
WATERLOO 

To my BHS of S Tw1t Its only you and me against the world. How aboul anolher weekend like the lasl? The Little Cracker­jack 
HECTOR MUNOZ GRACIAS POR LA LINDA NOCHE DEL SABADO. DE VERAD DISFRUTE MUGHO. TE QUIERE TERESITA. 
ND-SMC SKI TEAM. 2941raff1C 1am. back 
counlry roads 1n m1ddle of mght. raK11ng 
gas stat1on at 4:00am. CAMP. Fasl hats. 
downhill racers-we own the hill: good 
load. BEER. anyone hun11ng beaver late­
ly? Forget thts serious racer stuff-we skt 
better w1lh hangovers. Colleen. gel h1l 1n 
the head w1th a ski lately?! Hey. Tony, 
how's your THANG? G1mmie a beerl Fix 
the gale. dam-11! How do you make 4 
2? Change it to 6 
2! Saunas make you harney. what lhe 
H--is that? Gold medalist goggles. 
gld medalisfs glflfnend in PEPLE. Sk1 
Team Mom. Well. sentrs you're all recrea­
uonal sk1ers now. Guess we'll Just have to 
do our THANG allhe Nallonals lhis week­
end 1n Campus View Thanks to all for 
mak1ng my last meet lhe best Also, I have 
lo thank JPJ tor coming along lor the ride! 
Love you all, RUTH. 
BELA TED TO B-DAY ROSE. They say nolh1ng's perfect. Bullhey don't know you I!!! HAVE A GOOD 21st YEAR LOVE. BUMBLE P S One bounce IS enough 
MICHAEL DIXON AND CECIL RUCK­
ER: 
I'm SOOOO sorry I mlseed both ol your 
birthdays 
Better late than never, huh? 
So HAPPY BIRTHDAYS Ill 
Love, MP 
RIDE NEEDED:SYRACUSE/NY AREA lor break Can leave 3/15. share usual Call BILL 1439 
JOYCE TADEVICH-(or IS 11 Tade-B) If 
this IS lale. blame lhe NO connect1n I was 
go1ng lo place an ad 10 w1sh you a Happy 
Birthday bul I decided after your little 
g1ft" to Ihe man( you know I he poclure I 
mean) I will run lhis Instead. Th1s IS a dec­
laratton of all out war sent from France. 
Wait lor the relurn! Happy Birthday 
anyway. Much love sweetie-Lisa 
THIS IS ONE OF THOSE PERSONALS THAT HAS NO PURPOSE. 
PS I'm SORRY Here's a toast. To D1ane the mos1 wonderful HTH a guy could have (and lo your mother--the second most wonderful HTH a guy could have) 
CATHY JULIE ANN CATHERINE EMILY and STEVE, I have nolhing but rhapsodic pratse for you all that no one can repress Break some legs tomghl!-Your Dlfeclor 
To all of you especially you. Karyn. who made my birthday very en1oyable. Thank you! I w111 take all ot you on a plane nde one day. CHRISTOPHER" 
FRUSTRATION & JERSEYITES MAKE STRANGE BED/FLOOR FELLOWS! 
SUZANNE DAPRA I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU SEE YOU NEXT FRIDAY YOUR BOYFRIEND JAVIER. 
SENIOR MASS SUNDAY. MARCH 11 LOG CHAPEL 10:00 P.M. 
To the tour UTILE boys of second lloor Zahrn. Big buns. but where· s I he beeI? No wonder the cigar IS still left unsmoked! Show some class. (or negattves show all?) 
SENIOR CLASS MASS SUNDAY. MARCH 11 LOG CHAPEL 10:00 PM 

The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1984 -page 9 
Inter hall playoff action continues 
Off-Campus defeated Sorin Hall in interhall basket­ball action last night, 49-43, to force a second cham­pionship game in the double-elimination tournament. 
Jeff Jones led all scorers with his 18-point 
performance for Off-Campus. Jones hit six ofseven free 
throws, and 12 of 13 ove rall. As a team, Off-Campus 
made good on 23 oftheir 26 foul shots-an astounding 
88 percent. Sorin was able to connect on only 9-I 5 from 
the line. 
. . 
Tim Willis helped the effort wtth 13 pomts for Off­
. . . , vantage at halftime. Sorin's quick, pressing defense began to show results in the third period, but cold shooting at the offensive end kept them down by a 29­24 score going into the fourth quarter. Off-Campus hit the crucial free throws, keeping at least a four-point lead through the rest of the tightly-contested game. 
In Division B action, Morrissey got by Grace, 48-38, to send that playoffto a second game as well. Dave Place led all scoring in the game, tallying 13 points for the winning Morrissey squad. John Rischard helped the 
. h . . J B . d J h 
cause wtt mne pomts. oe artoszewtcz an o n 
Campus, whtle Ttm Beardsley had 11. Sorm s balanced M D .d dd d I 1 . h fi G 
. . .
attack was led by Rick DIBernardo's 12-pomt effort, while Pat Collins and Steve Beuerlein added nine apiece. 
Off-Campus led foi-the entire game, jumping to a 9-2 edge after the tirst quarter and holding a 19-12 ad-
c av1 a e pomts eac or race. 
Morrissey and Grac"'e play their final tonight at 6, while Off-Campus and Sorin will decide the A Division championship at 7. Both games are in the ACC Pit. 
Every Thursday Nite 
5pm-7pm 
Countdown to Spring Break Aphrodisiac Happy Hour 
2 for 1 Drinks Seafood Bar featuring Oysters. Clam•. Shrimp 35• each , Also featuring yoar favorite movie 
8pm-llpm Margaritas 11 ftavors $1 each Aphrodisiac Seafood Bar 
1 


Prices Good at South Bend Ave Store Only 
WINE 
Colony or Foppiano your choice Any Flavor in Stock 
1.99 /.5L 
Black Tower 
Liebfraumilch
750ml 3.99 Giacobazzi or Cella anyj7avor 
Kings Cellar  Kentucky  
Tequila 750ml  Tavern 750m/  
HeavanHill  Kings Cellar  
Scotch 750ml  Gin1somt  

4.99
/.5L 
KEGS 
Old 
Bouts 
continuedfrom page 12 
come back with some good punches." 
In the 155-pound weight class, Beresford Clarke, an ex-Bengals champion, and Dillon Hall resident Mike Mazza were victorious. Clark's quick punches had opponen< Hugh Doyle bleeding in the first round. The fight was stopped at 1:45 of the second round after Clark knocked Doyle down. 
The second bout at 1SS was also stopped by the referee as Mazza defeated freshman Todd Taylor. 
Peter Reilly defeated Dan Watzke on a unanimous decision in the 160­pound weight class in the most exciting fight of the night. Reilly took a shot to the nose in the first round which may have broken it. 
~Dflumuwu IJtwhmm 
~H£010GYs 
Mti.t YOUE ma.JO~ 
Thursday, March 8 5:30·6:30PM Room 331 O'Shaughnessy REFRESHMENTS 
Come and discuss possibilities: The Major in Theology The Double-Major in Theology A Minor in Theology 
For further information: Room 330 O'Shaughnessy 
The other match-up at I60 saw Joe Beatty beat southpaw Eric Witte on a unanimous decision. Witte didn't seem to know how to handle Beatty's right-handed style and often appeared to be running away from Beatty. Witte received two standing eight counts during the fight and was hit with a forceful shot to the jaw at the end of the bout. 
Ifthere was a feature bout it had to include Angelo Perino. Perino is vying for his third championship in the Bengals, and hiswin tonight over freshman Ed Hughes got him to the Finals. The match was stopped at the 
1:14 mark ofthe second round. 
Ed Bulleit defeated Larry Nrdolil­lo in the other bout at I65. Nardolil­lo was hampered throughout the fight by a large brace on his right knee which made it difficult for him to push offofhis right leg. 
A gutsy John Chiaro took suc­cessive blows to the face and mid­section from John Gurganus in his loss in the first I 75-pound fight. The fight was stopped at the I :36 mark of the first round. 
Ken Munro upset defending champion Dave Packo on a split decision in the other fight at I 75. Munro was a winner in this year's novice tournament. 
Defending champion Mike Cray defeated freshman Jim Ackerson when the referee stopped the ISS­pound bout in the second round. Cray will take on Dennis Hill in the finals of the 185-pound weight divi­sion. 
The first heavyweight bout was all Larry Andreini as he forced the referee to stop the fight at the 45 second mark of the second round. Andreini's opponent, Kevin O'Shea, was given a standing eight count in the first round and was knocked down before the fight was stopped. 
Jim Seith, a 220-pound sopho­more, was defeated by a much lighter Byron Abraham in the other heavyweight bout. 

Prices Good Thru March 10, 1984 
BEER 
Budweiser 
7.79 Stroh 
LP 
6.99 Michelob 
LP 
24 bottles 9.09 Lite 
7.99 Little Kings 
LP 
24-7oz bottles 4.99 Pabst
24bottles 6.49 
QUARTS 
Budweiser 9.99 Old Milwaukee 7.49 Lite 8.79 
LIQUOR 
Mix ,n, Match Any3for 10.99 
Kings Cellar 
Vodka750ml Jameson Irish 7f!:hiskey 8. 99 
Kings Cellar fiLum 8.99 
Apple Barrel 
Milwaukee Budweiser
halfbbl 26.99 halfbbl 29.99 
~5hnapps 4.99 
Lite Old Style 
qtrbbl 21.99 ha/fbbl 28.99 
The Observer Thursday, March 8, 1984-page 10 
Ups, downs, ifs and buts 
Rucker's career parallels Irish 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
It has been a season of ups and 
downs for the Notre Dame men's 
basketball team -after winning six 
const:cutive games at home, it 
dropped five of its next six. The 
squad also lost four of its last five 
gamt·s on the road. 
So also has bn·n the story of Cecil 
Rucker's career with the Irish. It 
began with much promise of future 
success, but t•nded only with ifs and 
could-havt··bt't'ns: He could have scored more if he had more playing time, or he could have bet:n a better player if he had played more consis­tt:ntly. 
When Rucker came to t:ampus, he brought with him the high expecta­tions that accompany any Notre Dame recruit. Being from the same high school as former Irish stan­douts Austin Carr and Don "Duck" Williams, and the fact that the Wash­ington D.C. area has been a hotbed of basketball talent, Rut·kcr had to endure even more pressure. 
Many saw in him the image ofOr­lando Woolridge as a freshman, since Rucker also had a lanky build and relied more on finesse than strength to score his points, much as the current star for the Chicago Bulls began here. 
His first year in South Bend, Ruck­er was rdt:gated to the bench, having to watch the likes of Wool­ridge, Kelly Tripucka, and Tim Andree from the sidelines. He had to wait his turn, as most freshmen must do. 
Then during his sophomore st·ason, the opportunity came for him to get into the action. The Irish playnl with a depleted lineup -of­ten dressing only eight scholarship 
THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE CLASSES STARTING 
THIS 
WEEKEND 
,r.~~­
!!o~N 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
Stanley H. Kaplan Education Center 717 E. S. Bend Ave, Ste H. 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
For Information About Other Centers In More Than 120 Major US Cities & Abroad 
OUTSIDE NY STATE CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 
players, and Rucker saw the chance to make a name for himself. 
Still, Rucker played on a limited basis at times, as he battled with a recently recognizable Irish trait: in­consistency. 
The students, who had taken a particular liking to him, were not about to let Rucker down. The fans may have been quiet when he was playing poorly, or not at all, but when it came time for Rucker to report into the lineup, one could al­ways sense the crowd's excitement. 
"I always appreciated the students supporting me," Rucker says. "It fet:ls good when people cheer for you, and when you have a lot of people who want to sec you do well, it makes you go out and play hard." 
The crowd often was disap­pointed, however, since Rucker spent a lot of time on the bench. 
He played well, for example, against Marquette, San Francisco, and· UCLA in sucessive games, scoring 24 points and getting 16 rebounds, thus earning a starting as­signment the next game. After that he didn't have a good game until the DePaul matchup-four games later. 
Although he did have trouble playing consistently, Rucker managed to to be an asset to the team, contributing 5.9 points per game and shooting a 52.5 percent from the field (second only to John Paxson), while averaging 19 minutes per outing. He also led the squad in blocked shots with 42. 
Things were looking up at that point. 
"I enjoyed my role during sopho­more year," Rucker recalls. "I think I stacked up well against some of the better teams." 
Looking back on the first half of his career at that point. one would conclude that Rucker had a pretty good start. Maybe he wasn't in con­tention for Player of the Year honors, but he still had a good chance to put together two solid years before he graduated. 
Looking at this season's Notre Dame basketball team, one could say that the team and Cecil Rucker suf­fered similar fates. Neither lived up to its potential. 
When Rucker was a junior, five talented freshmen entered into the scene, while only one player graduated. 
"There were some changes, and I had to deal with them," says Rucker. 
The most obvious adjustment was playing only 56 minutes all season, usually going in after the game's outcome had already been decided. 
In that regard, this season has been easier for the senior to deal with. Rucker again was used sparing­ly at the beginning ofthe season, and then not at all after the trip over Christmas break to the Northwest. 
"I assumed the role of being in Digger's doghouse; that's why I didn't get to play. As a player, I wish that I could play more, but I have to make the best ofthe position I'm in." 
Rucker still would like to get an opportunity to play basketball in the future. However, like the Irish team, which will settle for the NIT instead ofthe NCAA tournament, he probab­ly will have to settle for joining Tim Andree in Italy playing in the European leagues. 
But Rucker does think that he has learned some things about basket­ball and life while he has been here. 
"My whole career has been a learning experience," he says. "I've had my share oftough times. Getting through them is supposed to make you a tougher, better person, and if that's the case, I should turn out to be a hcckuva guy." 
What Does the Student Union Record Store Have in Store for Me 
CHEAPER PRICES ... SuveU-31-ffl~>tP"""' MOST CURRENT SINGLES-1·6.Jorcompu"ut 
J8. 99/ISI) 
CUT-OUTS ... Jl 98-JJ.91l 
GREATSELECTION ... spnn..teen. Fo,elbe'·'· Stem• Nicks, Chrt.flupher Cross, Mood\' Blues, Pal Benarur, Journey und 
mun.Y, m11n I' more. 
ALSO... mordedundhlunJ. rupt.~avutluhle. 
CONVENIENCE. .. TnPNDSURnwdSt<wtJimuJed 011 the Mum Floor ofl.uFtlf!/lne. Plus~ ordPred ultmms luke only Oflt' wf't'~' to u~m·e.1 
VAN LINES Runs this wee¥end -Fri.'& Sat. -movies, shopping, dining~_,-Uriiv~sity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50¢ rfound trip. Pay as you board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 
4:00 on Sat. 

The Observer/Paul Citarelli 

Senior forward Cecil Ruckergoes up for a shot against the Blue Demons ofDePaul, but his stay at Notre Dame hasn't always kept him flying high as be bas constant~y had to adjust to new situa­tions every year. Theron Roberts profiles the up-and-down career 
ofthefan favorite at left. 
---~··:·-···------
StUdent Union 
PRINTIN'G SERVICE 
New· Replacing campus Press Bring camera-ready poster art to S.U. RecordStore for your posters and table tents 
CLEMI VISION and 3M CANADA Part Time and FuJl.Hine Summer Employment 
Required Independent Distributors and Sales People 
• 
Are you looking for a good part time job leading to a full time summer employment? 

• 
Are you looking to Develop and Evaluate your entrepreneurial abilities? 

• 
Do you desire proof for future em­ployment -'you can work on your own' 


This product is a very simple glare reflector for CRT's easily installed and demonstrated. Excellent sales results since 3M of Canada has accepted the sole Distributorship of Canada. Clemi Vision is now expanding in all 50 States of the USA through student distribution. Inquiries welcomed. 
To attend a demonstration and information SemiQar to be held near campus, contact by March 12, 1984: 
U.S. Students: Clemi Vision 519-765-2592 Days or Evenings 
Canadian Students: 3M Canada 519-431-2500 Ask for Mr. Tom Hepburn 9AM to 4:30PM 

~4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------T-h_u_rs_d_ay_,_M_M_c_h_s_,_1_9_8_4___
Pa_g_e_l_l 

Bloom County 
WAKe IJP, 5J7;V~, WAK~ IJP/ 
Y()J'V€ WON ARO?~ IN -re55 TVROO'S NeW VIWJ 
ANCl TH£ CAM£RA CF<£W 15 ON ITS VJAY OV6FUI 


Guindon 
Breathed 

1HM'5 MY
QUICK .' WE NW710 (:;f.f 
~E5S£f, ... 50fv1£THIN0 
YOU (lfi'£55£17 1 00•.. Y11 KNOW 
5HOCK/Nb ... CRAZY... 
SUNPIIY 
mese ROCK vwws fM 
TACKY... OUTRA&WU~Y 
PERFECT' 
SfJIT/!
Pf<.f.ITY W/i.Jl... W£'U. 
U6l.Y.. 
U 8ARfOl 
N£e17 1V f!N17 SOMWIINb 



Dave 

You SUif kH"' YEAII, WW "' 
,., 111 I» tHtl 011 GfU! HEY. 1/NI> OF fJIIN6, CAN I BlllfW /JAVID. Yllll SAIIMIS? 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 31 Swiss 56 Courageous 9 Anglo·Saxon river one labo1·er
Woody 57 Liquid 10 Solve afiber 32 Drooping container cryptogram5 Vista 59 Consider 11 Epitomeposture10 Pickling 60 Cheerless 12 Jitterbug34 MacGrawherb danceof movies 
14 Jai-61 Novelist 13 Permit
15 Vehicles Ferber for hire 37 Moderate 62 Raison d'­21 Gaboror
40 Ike's 63 Unkempt 
Saint16 Singer .heater 64 Hollow 22 Nouveau·­
Adams 41 II stem 25 Honor17 Hint 42 Biblical 26 Cafe au­
18 Straighten preposition DOWN 19 Penny 43 Fur trader 
1 -·relief 27 Catholic 2 Touched booklet
20 Begin a 44 Genuflect ground 28 Up to nowjourney 45 Univ. 
3 Narrative 29 Places23 At all 47 Biblical 4 Worked 30 Yearntimes prophet clumsily 32 Forwarded24 In a lazy 5 Case 33 Nuttymanner 
49 Regulations 6 Heat: lat. imposed on 7 Egress 34 Excellent 25 Treatise travelers 35 Dilatory on plants 55 Dance 8 Near, 36 Darling of 28 Vacuum skirt poetically fans 
38 Strong 48 Blithe 
thread 50 Betting 39 Exceeds ligures 43 Refer 51 Food 
indirectly 52 Banyan, for one 
44 Asian land: abbr. 45 Condiment 53 Helper bottle 54 Native of 
Odense 46 -Mongolia 55 Article 47 Before 58 Youth 
Wednesday's Solution 

Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. -Grad. Student Prayer Group, Bulla House, Sponsored by Office ofCampus Ministry, 

•7:00 
p.m. -German Club Party, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by German Club, 

•7:00 
p.m. -Film, "Injustices in the U.S.A.", Library Media Center, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Mistress", Washington Hall, 

•8:00 
p.m. -Lecture, "Questions Jesus Asked Himself', Rev. Jerome Murphy O'Connor, O.P., Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Theology Dept., 

•8:00 
p.m.-Play, "The House ofBernarda Alba", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre, S3 and 52.50 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, Collegium Musicum, Great Hall, O'Shaughnessy, 


TV Tonight 
6p.m. 

6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 

7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 

8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 

9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 

11:30p.m. 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Straight Talk 16 Gimme A Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 Two Marriages 34 All Creatures Great and Small 16 Family Ties 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 28 Masquerade 34 Mystery 16 Buffalo Bill 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Sneak Previews 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn/CBS Late Movie 28 Thicke ofthe Night 


• A
• [!!j>O ';:e;::': 
• 
• OIHO~>MOUSTihES•NC • 

Rejection Night Bring all rejection letters to be redeemed for Drink Specials 
73 days until 
D.J. Mike Dandurand 
Graduation 
L------------------------------------~ 


S~orts 
Senior Larry• Andreini connects u•ith a right jab on his u•ay t(lll'ard a urumimous decision victory (Jl1er IAndreini advances to the hem~vweight finals against sophomore Ket•in O'Shea in the hem~vweight semi-freshman Byron Abraham tomorrow. For details finals of the 54th Annual Bengal Bouts last night. concerning the Bouts, seejoe Brunetti's story below. 
Finals tomorrow 
Bengal semi-finals a crowd hit 
ByJOE BRUNETII 
vmrts Writer 
The excitement started early and so did the blood at last night's semi­t1nals of tht· lkngal Bouts. 
In the first hout of tht• night, I 30­pounders Matt Coash :md Raul Motta squared off. Coash won last Sunday's match on a unanimous decision, and Coash rn:eived a hye in the first round. The fight was pn·t­ty much all Coash from the start as Motta received two standing eight counts hefort· the referee stopped tht· fight at I :30 ofthe second round. 
The other 130-pound match pitted law student J.P. Holbrook against freshman Marshall Rogers. Holbrook is a previous winner of the Bengals, capturing the 130-pound championship in 197H. This match-
Michigan squeaks by 
Irish nearly pull off the upset 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writ(>r 
Little David gave Goliath a slap in 
the head, hut victory was not meant 
to he. 
Tht• University of Michigan, last year's Big Ten champion, left the ACC reeling, hut victorious. The un­dt·rdog Irish tennis team kept their dream ofan upset alive until the final match, as the Wolverines squeaked 
•mt a • ·in, S-4. 
"It's been a long time since we heat Michigan," said Head Coach Tom Fallon. "They have a lot ofgood athletes, but we had an early ad­vantage with our court surface and we never gave up. 
"It's heen at least 10 years since we took this many points from Mich­igan." 
The Irish led offwith two notches in the win column. At second doubles, Paul Ghidotti and Paul Najarian defeated Hugh Kijok and Rodd Schreiber 6-1, 7-6. Joe Nel­ligan and Doug Pratt at third doubles overcame a strong challange from the Wolverines' duo ofJohn Royer and Todd Cohen, 6-4, 7-6. 
These two victories raised Notre Dame's hopes for a major upst·t. Simply to win two matches from the Big Ten champions was a huge morale booster for the underdog Irish, and they were not done yet. 
But Michigan did not come to just roll over on the Tartan-surface courts of the Irish. At first doubles Jim Sharton anJ Ross Laser over-up went the distance with Halbrook winning on a unanimous decision. 
Two seniors, Tony Bonacci and Frank Maneri, took the honors at 140 and will square off against each other in the finals. 
Bonacci heat senior Roh DeSiato on a unanimous decision, and a bloody Maneri came up with an im­pressive split decision victory over Mark St. Amand, who won the novice tournament last October. 
"I knew it was going to he close," said Mant•ri. "We had never fought each other before so we had to feel each other out." 
Boxing club officers Tom Lezynski and Mike Latz will square off against each other in the finals af­ter winning their bouts at 145­pounds. After receiving a bye in the t1rst round, Latz took on junior Chris Soha. Latz was knocked down twice 
powered Tim Noonan and Mike Gib­bons 3-6, 7-5,6-3. 
It could have been the turning point for the Wolverines. Playing third singles was Paul Ghidotti for the Irish against John Royer. 
"This is the match I've been waiting for all season," said Ghidotti. "I've known John since we were 12 years old. We played together for four years in high school, and it al­ways seemed that he won the chat­lange match to play first singles right before a big match. 
"This is a big one." 
It was a big one for both Ghidotti and the Irish, and Ghidotti came through in the clutch with an emo­tional 6-2, 6-4 victory. 
"I was serving and returning really well," Ghidotti said. "I changed pace a lot, mixed my shots well, and it got to him. 
"He was frustrated the whole match." Ghidotti's victory gave the Irish a 3-1 lead. 
Joe Nelligan fought a good match against Jim Sharton, but Sharton's serve was just too powerful, downing Nelligan 6-3,6-4. 
At fifth singles Paul Najarian lost the first set to Todd Cohen 6-4 before taking a 5-2 lead in the second. But Cohen held serve and went on to win the match in a tiebreaker. 6-4, 7-6 ( 7-5) and to tie the score at 3-3. 
The loudest match of the day was next as UM's Rodd Schreiber defeated Tim Noonan 6-2, 6-3. The hy Soha in the fight, hut he came hack with a strong third round effort to receive the unanimous decison of the judges. 
"I felt I was scoring more points all through," said the junior from Pangborn. "He's an excellent boxer. I couldn't have asked for a better match." 
Lezyski took on junior Jeff Her­rmann. Lezynski's southpaw stance seemed to confuse Herrmann throughout the match. Herrmann received a standing eight in the first round and was knocked down twice in the second before the bout was stopped at the I :0 I mark. 
"It might have been stopped a little early," commented Lezynski. "I guess the referee t1gured I had more points, hut he could have always 
~ee BOUTS, pa2e 9 
score does not reflect the intensity of Noonan's play as uncharacteristic errors marred his effort. 
Noonan's serve was impressive, dominating play, but errant groundstrokes led to his downfall. 
The Irish knotted the score at 4-4 with Mike Gibbons, hero of last weekend's match against Gustavus Adolphus, winning against Ross Laser. 
Suddenly, it was down to sixth singles -Doug Pratt for Notre Dame against Hugh Kijok of Michi­
gan. • Shouts of encouragement came from the other Irish tennis players for Pratt, inspiring the serve and vol­ley specialist on, but in the end it was Kijok's powerful serve that ended the dream, 6-4, 7-5. Ball State arrives next Tuesday for a 3 p.m. match. "We're concerned about Ball State because they beat us last year," said Fallon. "It was the first time in about 20 years." , "Their entire starting lineup is back," said Assistant Coach Tom Hartzell. "They'll be very tough, but we have a homecourt advantage. The team will really be pumped up, looking for some revenge. "Today's performance will really give us some confidence." "If we continue to play well at doubles and improve at singles, we'll be okay," said Fallon. "Any team that can stay even with Michigan is in pretty good company." 
Thursday, March 8, 1984 -page 12 
Reflections on a 
most peculiar year 
1-~-Ph_or_~_;_~_·re_~_r_e_e_b-=-y----------:-.. ·-.~-.···.A..t-=­
Irish Items ~~~ ­
llello again, everybody! 
The Irish have entered the Twilight Zone phast· of the 19H:\-H4 season. With the regular season under wraps and the NIT more than a week away, Digger Phelps will have: plenty of time to prepare his team for post-season play. There's only one problem -the Irish don't know who they will play, where: they will play, or when they will play -and that makes creating a gan1e plan rather difficult. 
Nevertheless, the Irish will continue practicing, working on the t1ner points of their game, while allowing time for somt· R&R ...rest and rehabilitation. Hopefully, Tim Kempton ~nd JoJo Buchanan will have recovered from their injuries by the: time: the tournament rolls around, while the rest of the squad should he fresh after some time off. However, before we start talking about the NIT, let's spend a few moments this week reflecting on a most unusual regular season. 
Phelps' Theory of Adaptation ... Quickly. name the starting fivt· for Notre Dame in the opener this year. If you said Siuhy, Dolan. Kempton, Price, and Buchanan. you deserve a gold star, hut if you answered incorrectly, don't feel hadly. The opener against St. Joseph's marked one ofthe few times Phelps could go with this quin­tet, as the Irish mentor was constantly forced to juggle his lineup. 
At the beginning of the year, Notre Dame's depth was viewed as one of its biggest assets, hut hy mid-season Phelps was making a phone call to Memphis trying to get Joe Howard to be the backup point guard. By the end of the season, the Irish had only one point guard (Howard) and Phelps' wastebasket brimmed with plans that had to he scrapped due to the atrophy of his roster. 
The Lows and Woes ... This season resembled aJohnny Carson monologue -there was some good news and some had news. First, the bad news ... 
I. Injuries and Ineligibility ... This was the biggest thorn in the side of the Irish. Notre Dame is certainly a different team with Kempton out of the lineup, and it showed in the latter third of the season. With Buchanan injured and Dan Duff sidelined due to grades, the Irish lost quickness and experience at the guard slot. The lack of depth became most apparent last Saturday at Dayton, where the Flyers took advantage ofJoe Howard's foul trouble by pressing the Irish backcourt. 
2.Inability to Win on the Road ... Most teams have a goal to play .SOO basketball away from home, hut the Irish had more adventures on the road than Hope and Crosby. One doesn't mind losing at places like Indiana, but it hurts at sites such as Northwestern and Rutgers. The extremely poor road record is a little surprising considering Phelps is hovering near that .500 road mark ( 84-85) during his tenure at Notre Dame. 
3. Free Throw Shooting ... Here is an area that anybody who has ever played organized basketball has worked on in practice, and yet, for some inexplicable reason the Irish could not shoot from the foul line. Notre Dame lost seven games because it was outscored hy its opponents at the charity stripe. Contrast that figure with the fact the Irish won only four games due to their foul shooting. It doesn't take much to realize a reversal of that record means the difference be­tween going to the NIT and a berth in the NCAA. 
Now the Good News ... Contrary to what the preceding section might indicate, this season was not a disaster. There were highlights to this campaign as well. 
1. 
Tom Sluby ... No. 33 was undoubtedly the star of this squad. Many people had their doubts as to how Sluby would do in his cap­tain's role this year, but after stunning 30-point performances against Marquette and Dayton, few skeptics remain. His patented hanging pull-up jumper contributed heavily to an 18.3 scoring average, the highest by any Irish player since Adrian Dantley pumped in 28 points an outing in 1975-76. 

2. 
The Upset ofMaryland ... Digger's middle-aged body certainly has nothing on Jennifer Beals, but Phelps deserves the Flashdance award for his on-court leaps and pirouettes after the triumph over the Terps. Notre Dame displayed its finest execution of the season, pulling off its first upset ofa top-twenty team in two years. This game proved the south dome ofthe ACC can rock for something besides a BillyJoel concert. 

3. 
The Maturation ofthe Front Line ... The youthful Irish front court displayed signs that it could be a force in the coming years. Kempton, although often maligned by fans, developed into a rebounding machine prior to his injury. Jim Dolan adjusted to his role as a passing forward, while pacing the Irish on the hoards. Ken Barlow displayed a silky shooting touch from the baseline, and Donald Royal developed into a tine forward by year's end. This foursome definitely gives Phelps hope for the future. 


Pick ofthe Week ... Pugilistic action will he in the spotlight of Stepan Center Friday, as the 54th annual Bengal Bouts head into the l1nal round. Action hegins under the geodesic dome at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow. 
While I wonder ifthere isn't an easier way to do some fund-raising, it cannot be denied that the Bengal Bouts serve a worthwhile purpose -raising money for the Bengal missions overseas. Contrary to the opinion ofone writer who stated the crowds were filled with "thrill-thirsty mobs screaming for a knockout" (isn't that a little melodramatic?), you will find most of the people on this campus who go to the fights are there to support someone they know. Since you probably know someone participating tomorrow, why not take a walk over to Stepan Center to check out the action? 


