Father-daughter weekend -page 3 
-~~----~ 
VOL XIX, NO. I 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1984 

ND joins study of American companies in South Africa 
By TERRY BLAND and fair employment practices and . reservation and allowing him to vote 
StaffReporter equal pay for equal work. 
"It is the moral responsibility that 

Most of the American corpora­the University expects for itself to tions operating in South Africa do make sure the companies it does in­not see it as their position to inter­vest in are socially responsible," fere with the government, accor­Zang told The Observer. ding to Father Richard Zang, Toward this end, Notre Dame has investment officer for Notre Dame. joined a group of l 5 colleges and 
As an investing assemblage, the universities to review American University is deeply concerned with companies operating in South the morals of these American com­Africa. Other universities associated panies operating in South Africa. "In with this group include Harvard, most cases, the kinds of companies Yale, Rutgers and Cornell. that they arc interested in are Sul­Recently the apartheid society livan Principle signitories," said South Africa operates under has Zang. come under harse criticism. Apar­
'lbc Sullivan Principles were theid is the systematic discrimina­adopted in 1978 by Father Leon H. ' tion by the minority whites against Sullivan, who cited six principles as non-whites. Zang compared this to guiddincs for United States firms what would happen in the United operating in South Africa. Among States if "we had a majority popula­these principles are non-segregation tion ofIndians." of the races in public facilities, equal By restricting the Indian to a 
Senior Informal plans underway for Chicago 
By BARBARA STEVENS 
News Staff 
Want to experience a weekend in Chicago? Try the Senior Informal, scht·duled for Sept. 28-30, which of­fers students just that opportunity. 
According to co-chairpersons Karen Klocke and George Connor, the Senior Informal committee this year has planned the weekend not as a package-deal but as a series of op­tions from which seniors can choose to construct their own weekend. 
"'Ibe main purpose of the weekend," said Connor, "is for people to experience Chicago." 
Accommodations have been ar­ranged at the Hotel Continental, where students may stay for one or two ni¢tts. Friday evening seniors can climb aboard the: S.S. Clipper for a floating cocktail party on Lake Mic­higan. Tickets will also be available for the Second City Comedy Club. 
Saturday, the hotel will offer brunch, then show the Notre Dame vs. Mis.o;ouri game on a big-screen 'IV. A limited number of tickets to the Saturday Cubs game will be available for S 3.50. 
A class Mass will be held on Sun­day, and some tickets for the Chicago Bears vs. the Dallas Cow­boys game will be available. 
'Ibc informal committe is pushing for seniors to get out and see Chicago. "The opportunities of things to do there are endless," ex­plained Klocke. "The informal is our fall answer to seeing Chicago." lbe Hotel Continental, located on "The Magnificent Mile" between Water Tower Place and the Art Institute of Chicago, is within easy walking dis­tance of the shopping and museum districts. 'Ibc committee purposely did not plan anything for Saturday ni¢tt so seniors can take advantage of Chicago's restaurants and night life. 

lbe senior informal, initiated last year, is an alternative to the spring formal. "The cost of the formal, a traditional tux and long gown affair, is prohibitive," pointed out Klocke. "The informal is much cheaper, and no one needs a date." 
Last year 300 people attended the senior informal. This year Klocke and Connor are optimistic about doubling that number. Neither of them feels the recent poor atten­dance at the senior pig roast is an in­dication of apathy on the part of the senior class. The pig roast took place at the end ofa very busy week, and it was held in senior bar. "A lot of seniors couldn't go because they're 
see WEEKEND, page 6 
only on his reservation, the U.S. would be acting in a way compara­ble to the apartheid society ofSouth Africa. "It would be like an Indian being allowed to work for General Motors in Detroit, but their family would have to stay back on the reservation in Montana," said Zang. 
"There is certainly segregation in all public facilities and there is no representation by blacks in the legislature ofthe government," Zang said. "It's racial discrimination in its worst form. It's a tyranny by the minority over the majority and the deprivation ofbasic human rights. 
"It also, in many cases, includes the blacks being confined to the most menial jobs in the economy. Many times the blacks arc not paid the same wages as a white man would be even though he is doing the same work," Zang said. 
"Certainly, there are companies both South African owned and owned by foriegn groups that come in and accept the status quo in the workplace and bring no additional commitment to equal rights," said Zang. 
One man who disagrees with the methods of the University in invest­
Observer Photo/Paul K.nmtr 
ing in American corporations in 

Charles H. Lee, plant chemical engineer ofthe Food Products 
South Africa is Peter Walshe, direc­

tor  of  African  studies.  Walshe  Plant ofProcter and Gamble, speaks to the crowd ofstudents as­ 
sembledfor last night's Engineering Placement Night at the Me­ 
see REVIEW, page 4  morial Library Auditorium.  


State police prepare for record bus caravan to ND-Purdue showdown 
By ALEX PELTZER 'Ibe entire operation will require 
News staff 
Students travelling to Indianapolis for this weekend's Purdue vs. Notre Dame football game will not only be seeing the season's first game but will also be taking part in what trans­portation officials say is the longest bus convoy in history. 
The transportation of Notre Dame students to Indianapolis was part of an agreement between Notre Dame officials and Indianapolis contrac­tor/Notre Dame alumnus Robert V. Welch. Welch is supplying the esti­mated $100,000 needed to transport the 6,500 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to the newly constructed Hoosier Dome in In­dianapolis. 

Traditional panty raid goes on 
By THERESA GUARINO Assistant News Editor below. Saint Mary's Security was clearly visible to stop several Notre Dame freshmen who attempted to scale 
'Ibe annual panty raid took place last night, as several the walls of Regina Hall. hundred Notre Dame freshmen turned out underneath In past years, freshmen at both schools have been en­the windows of Regina, LeMans, Holy Cross and couraged to discontinue the tradition. Last year, a letter McCandless Halls at Saint Mary's. 'Ibe prize, as is tradi-was issued by Saint Mary's Dean ofStudents Sister Karol tiona!, was a coveted pair of panties marked with the Jackowski, which asked students to stop such a name and number ofa Saint Mary's freshman. "mindless and degrading activity." Jackowski was sup­
'Ibe panty raid has been a hallowed tradition in the ported in her actions by former Notre Dame Dean of lift• of freshmen for years. Right on schedule at 8 p.m., Students James Roemer, who called the event "quite the freshmen began the trek down Saint Mary's road. As juvenile," and promised S100 fines to any Notre Dame they hit U.S. 31, they were heard all the way to Regina, freshmen caught trespassing at Saint Mary's. Despite where most ofthe freshmen were waiting. such warnings, the panty raid went on as usual, 
With armfuls of panties, the Saint Mary's freshmen however. stood at their windows and threw them to the freshmen lbis year, there were no such warnings. 
approximately 150 buses from three different states. Because of such a large convoy, Indiana State Police are taking precautionary efforts to assure the safety ofthe convoy. 
"We are going to have extra patrol 
cars making sure there are no harzar­
dous cars on the road," said Larry 
Clodfelter ofthe Indiana State Police 
Departm~nt. "We're also going to 
break the large convoy into smaller 
caravans so we don't tie up traffic," 
Clodfelter added. 
Clodfelter hoped there would be 
no major problems and speculated 
that even the traffic around the In­
dianapolis area should go smoothly. 
Buses are scheduled to leave Notre Dame by 7 a.m. and loading starts at 5:30 a.m. Students from the following dorms are to board buses at the South Quad dining hall: Alumni, Badin, Carroll, Walsh, Dil­lon, Fisher, Holy Cross, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey, Old College, Pangborn and Sorin. The other dorms are to board at Stepan center, while off-campus students will board at Gate 14 of Notre Dame Stadium. Saint Mary's students are to meet at Angela Athletic Facility to board their buses. 

According to Paul Matwiy, assis­tant director of student activities, students are urged to board as early as possible, noting that the absolute latest the buses will depart is 7 a.m. He added that the buses leaving ear­lier will be nicer, chartered buses while the later buses will be school buses, g~vmg the students an in­centive to board early. 
The Notre Dame Club of In­dianapolis is planning numerous events for students and fans in In­dianapolis on Friday night prior to the game. Fran Brezette, president of the alumni club, estimates I0,000 people will take part in the pep rally held at Memorial Circle. 
"We encourage all students who are in Indianapolis to take part in the activities," Brezette said. 

lberc will be two bands playing after the pep rally and dancing will go on until midni¢1t. 
Brezette said a Notre Dame open house will be held in conjunction with the pep rally. Students will be admitted free of charge. Beer and wine will be sold at the open house. 
Although alcohol will be sold at the rally, Hoosier Dome officials have announced that no alcohol will be served at the game. "Ibc decision not to sell alcohol is in accordance with the University of Notre Dame's preference. 
"We just felt in light ofthe fact this is a college game, the sale of beer didn't seem to fit," said the Rev. E. William Beauchamp, executive as­sistant to University President Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh. 

Hotels in Indianapolis that are not already full are filling rapidly. A Hyatt/Regency reservation official stated 475 of the 495 rooms at the Regency rented out for this weekend are occupied by people at­tending the game or the activities the night before. 

-·­
The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
Time Inc.has awarded Notre Dame freshman Carol Cusick a scholarship. Cusick, of Darien, Conn., is one of SO recipients of Time scholarships ranging from $500 to $3,000. The scholarships were given to 50 employees' children and were independently ad­ministered by the Citizens' Scholarship Foundation ofAmerica, Inc. Cusick's father is A. Jack CusickofFortune magazine. -The Observer 
Tax sheltersare required to be registered with the Inter­nal Revenue Service, as ofSt;pt. I, 1984. This provision is included in the Tax Reform Act of 1984 which President Ronald Reagan signed July 18, 1984. Regi~tration is required ofany investment ifit meets a tax benefits test, and is subject to federal or state securities regula­tion or is classed as a substantial investment. Form 8264, Application for Registration of a Tax Shelter, must be filed by the tax shelter organizer. The forms and instructions can be ordered by calling the IRS toll-free at 1-800-424-1040.-The Observer 
Of Interest 
Today is the last sign-upday for the Wednesday lunch fast. Anyone interested can register in North or South Dining Hall. The World Hunger Coalition is sponsoring the fast. -The Observer 
A MASH Movie Party this Friday from 10 p.m. to 2 
a.m. in Haggar College Center and an Alcohol Awareness Week from Oct. 1 until Oct. 5 were among the events discussed last night at the Saint Mary's Programming Board meeting. It was also announced that Octoberfest will be held the week of Oct. 8. Anne Marie Kol­lman, vice president of student affairs, introduced Mark Serrano, a Notre Dame junior, who will serve as a liaison between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Serrano will attend all meetings of the Program­mingBoard. 
The Studentticketlotteryfor the Michigan State football game is being held today in the Student Govern­ment/Student Activity Board office. Any student interested should bring his i.d. card to the office on the second floor of LaFortune between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Only one entry per person is allowed. Results of the lottery will be posted outside the LaFortune record store on Friday, Sept. 6, at 6 p.m. At that time students can sign up for transportation to the game, Sept. 15, in East Lansing, Mich. -The Observer 
Students ofarchitecture throughout the nation have been invited to design a building addition in an historic area of New York City in the annual design competition sponsored by the Society ofRegistered Architects. The design is an infill building addi­tion in the area known as the Schernerhorn Row Block on the city's waterfront. Student design competition programs are available from Raymond Studer, 3049 Sixteenth Street, NW, Canton, OH 44708. Design solutions for this program must arrive at the New York City office listed in the program no later than October9. -The Observer 
The Judicial Council, wm hold its first open meeting ofthe year tonight at 7 in 124 Hayes-Healy. All students are invited to attend. -The Observer 

Weather 
' I
Mostly sunnyand cool today. High 
:O: in low 70s. Wind becoming southeast 5-10 mph. Clear and warmer tonight. Low in mid to upper 50s. Mostly sunny and warmer tomor­row. High in low to mid 80s. -AP 
The Observer 
The Observer ( l'SP!-o ;99 2 .. 1000) b puhlisht·d ,\1onday through l·riday and on home.: foothall ~aturday.-... l'X<.:t.:pt during t:xam and vacation pt:rio<Js. The Observer b puhlishc.·d by the.· ~tmknts(Jf the: t 'nivt'rsity of Notrt: Daml' and Saim .\1ary's Colkgt·. Suhs<.:riptions may he.· purt·haS<:d for S2; per y~ar ( s I; pn st:"mestcr) by writing The Observer, 
P.O. Box Q. Notr~ Oamc. Indiana 46;;6. 
The Observer is a m<·mbnofThe As­sociated Press. All reprodunion righ" art· reservt'd. 
Today's issue was produced by' 
Design Editor ................. Guillermo Suarez Design Assistant ................. Lev Chapelsky Layout Staff........................................... Mark Typesetter........................ Bill Highducheck News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor..............................Jane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout ................John Menndl ND Day Editor ................... Melinda Moore SMC Day Editor ........................Jody Radler Ad Design........................Suzanne and Fred Photographer............................ Pete Laches 



Are juniors in a class all by themselves? 
If you are not a junior, you'll probably want to stop here. 
Because this column is written for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's juniors -a class currently in limbo. And a class full of students who will probably have to make some decisions soon. 
Believe it or not, we are entering the second half of our college careers, give or take a week or two. Looking back on the first half, will it be any different from the second? 
Of course, socially, things already are different. For the last two years, alcohol ran freely at our parties, tail­gaters and in student rooms, at least at Notre Dame. This was very easy to get used to, and hard to forget. Now, entering the second halfofcollege, the law has been set. No more. 
It's been a long time since our first social experience here, the infamous ACC dance. Here we are, two years later. The ACC dance would 
0 

probably look great right o o now. Last weekend was a testing ground for most stu­dents, seeing just what they were going to be able to get away with. The answer seems all too clear: not much. With any room gath-0 erings above a whisper accused ofbeing a party, stu­dents went searching to be social off-campus. That search ended for many in the backseat ofa South Bend police car. Yes, the old days are over; the tap has run dry. And like anything else, once you lose it, you only want it 
more. 

That's where our class is in limbo. Most juniors won't be 21 for a while yet, many ofus not until junioryear is over. What apredicament­too young to drink legally on campus or off; too old to enjoy the replacement activities, which seem mostly aimed at freshmen and sophomores. 
The administrations and both student governments have promised activities to fill the void left by the demise ofhall parties. Ofcourse it is too early to tell, but let's hope we are not looking at a semester ofChance to Dance clones. Chance to Dance proved a great way for freshmen and sophomores to meet and mingle last year. Unfortunately, by the junior year, they can seem old hat and repetitive. 
Juniors do have some decisions to make. Looking ahead to this year, what do we plan to do? Sounds like a 



THE ANSWER IS ~ .. >; • ';vn11 YOU HELP SAVE BABIES <ij;> Support the ~!9b.,QtQ\g;~  


DRill 

DRIIIII 
lSI 

CRIMIIIl 
IFFElSE 
It's no accident 
BAKER's BIKE SHOP Inc. 

sc\\'lf\t~N Bicycl~s 
Parts, Accessories, and Service for all Makes 
277·8866 
NOTE: Bicycle storage available from 11-B-84 to 4-30-85 Call for details 
In Roseland one half mile north of campus on U.S. 31 Closed Sunday and Monday 

THE STUDENT-ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (SARG) 
is expanding1its membership. SARG, a liaison group between the students and alumni, is looking for sophomores, juniors and seniors who enjoy interacting with alumni, students and the University community. 
Interested students should contact JEANINE GOZDECKI AT 283·2670 no later than September 1 0 
Theresa Guarino 
Assistant News Editor 
pretty basic question, but "there's nothing to do" is already starting to sound pretty familiar. Maybe the alcohol policy will bring one benefit, espe­cially to those used to Notre Dame-Saint Mary's life the 
WAY IT WAS versus the WAY IT IS NOW. Maybe stu­dents will be forced to look around for new outlets and options. What comes from sheer boredom may turn out to be well worth your time. 
Activities nights at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were held this week. Looking around at both, I noticed a lot of clubs and organizations that I had either not noticed before, or not heard much about. Many ofthem were social organizations concentrating on issues on and off campus. 
I know, I know, CILA to take the place of a good old Notre Dame tailgater? Young Democrats or Col­lege Republicans instead of one of those great (substitute the name ofyour hall here) theme parties? Big Brothers/Big Sisters to replace an small intimate toga get-together? 
No, they are not replace­ments. But they can help to take up some ofthat time, in­terest, and energy you may have nothing to do with, es­pecially now that the social life has so rudely been laid to rest. And they can be a lot more fun then spending the
0 

night in a South Bend jail 
And who knows? After your 21st birthday, they still might be worth your while. 
Clarification 

In yesterday's Observer a headline reported that police arrested seven people at off-campus parties. To clarify, in addition to those arrested Friday night, two more were arrested Sunday morning. 
The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984 -page 3 

Twenty-nine killed in Johannesburg fighting 
A.~8oclated Press 
JOHANNESBURG. South Africa ­Scattered looting and arson were re­ported yesterday in three black townships devastated by the worst rioting In eight years. A bomb went off at a Johannesburg courthouse, and an explosion shattered an elec­trical substation, blacking out eight towns. 
South African officials said 147,000 black student~ stayed away from classes because of continuing unrest or to honor boycotts. 
Police said 29 people were killed and as many as 300 were reported wounded since the fiercest rioting started Monday over government· impost·d rent Increases. 
The rent hike, about S3.1 0 on a monthly rent of about $18.60 for a four-room, cinder block house, was the spark for new unrest after eight months ofsporadic student boycotts to protest inferior black education. 
In Sharpeville, site of the worst rioting Monday, police with rifles manned armored personnel carriers on the boulder-strewn street leading into town. 
About 2,000 blacks, many of them youngsters, assembled about 250 yards away, chanting and holding placards denouncing the rent hikes. 
Six miles away in Scbokeng, small crowds of blacks shied stones at police vehicles and cars carrying whites. Residents said there were cases of arson and looting. 
Police and witnesses reported some arson and plundering in the townships Wednesday, but on a far lower scale than the two previous days. 'Jbe townships -Sharpevllle, Sebokeng and Evaton -arc about 4 5 miles south of Johannesburg. They were the site of the worst black rioting since the Soweto riots spread across the country in 1976. 
Eight farm towns and several large mines were without power yester­day after a blast, apparently from a bomb, blew up in the power substa­tion north of Rustenburg, 62 miles northwest ofJohannesburg. No one was hurt. 
In Johannesburg, a bomb fixed with a timer was spotted at mid­morning on the seventh floor of the provincial Rand Supreme Court building. A policeman rushed It to a lawn outside, where it was detonated, breaking windows but injuring no one. 
The court hears many of the treason trials of defendants accused of trying to overthrow white· minority rule. Pollee at the scene said the bomb was timed to go off moments after courts convened at IOa.m. 
A spokesman for the African Na­tional Congress office In Lusaka, Zambia, said the guerrilla organiza­tion awaited word from its units in South Africa, but "the assumption is that It Is our people." 
The spokesman, who spoke on condition he was not identitled, called the rent increases "an area we have called on our people to resist ­sales tax rises, bus fares, rents. We regard this as part of ... resistance to exploitation nationally." 
His organization issued a state· ment yesterday calling on South Africans to make the convening of the nation's new-style Parliament on Sept. 18 "the focus of mass activities and demonstrations of rejection" of the new constitution. 
The constitution was created by the ruling National Party and took ef­fect Monday. It gives the Asian and mixed-race minorities segregated chambers of Parliament. The 22 mil­lion blacks remain voteless and are not allowed to own land or move about freely. 
In Cape Town, former Prime Mini­ster Pieter W.. Botha won unchal­lenged election yesterday to the new office of state president to preside over the new system, which he calls a major step toward race reform. 

Autumn Knights 

Chris Stune, Cathy Schafer, joe Piccolo, Peggy House at the Knights of Columbus. The Open House Rumiez, Scott Morrison, Mark Torres, and Tom Dar­was sponsored by the Ladies andKnights ofColumbus. row were some ofthe happyfaces at last night's Open 

Weekend planned for SMC seniors 
By MARY L. PADDEN 
News Staff 

A full schedule of events is being planned for Saint Mary's Senior Father-Daughter weekend which will be held Sept. 14 to Sept. 16. 
Committee Chairperson Mary Sue Dunn is pleased with the response shown so far. "This is only the second year of the event, and already over a third of the seniors have made plans to attend." 
Registration is scheduled for Friday, Sept. 14 from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. at Haggar College Center. Any addi­tional tickets for events such as Casino Night may be purchased at this time only. 
james Dapogny's Chicago Jazz Band is scheduled to kick off events Friday at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin 
OUR NURSING 



SCHOLARSHIPS WILL HELP 
YOUR MEDICAL PLANS. 

If high tuition costs are jeopardizing your fu­ture in medicine, Army ROTC may have just what the doctor ordered: 
An Army ROTC scholarship. 

ROTC recently set aside hundreds ofschol­arships solely for nursing students like yourself. 
Each one covers full tuition, books and other supplies, and pays you uf to $1,000 each schoo year it's in effect. 
So make an ap­pointment to find out 
more about an Army ROTC scholarship. Contact your Pro­
fessor of Military Science today. 
ARMY ROTC. 

BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
Bob Skinner 
Rieman 

Auditorium followed by dancing at Haggar Center. Seniors and their fat· hers are invited to top off the eve­ning at a reception at the Marriott Hotel. A cash bar will be included for those over 21. 
Saturday's events include a 5K run and a speaker series featuring "Life After Graduation" by jeff Roberts, and "Tips On Taking Better Pictures" by Neil King. 
The Rathskeller and the Wharf Restaurants have set apart areas for Saint Mary's seniors and fathers. Those wishing to take advantage of this offer should make reservations early. 
Casino Night, in the Angela Ath­letic Facility, will be the climax of the weekend's events. Music will be provided by a OJ and there will be 12 game stations set up to provide 
~ ~ 
Obi'Cn-~r Pholo/Paul Kramer 

tional weekend." 
/ACCISPROUDTOANNOUN; EI 
Y/1L:1~0 NcERT• WILLIE NELS~f'R 19;7:30 sePTE'MoF NOTRE DAAME uNIVERSITY AREN 
A.C·~REsERVED 
•1350 & •12 TICKETS ON SALE ND/ACC 

Box Office 
(Gate 10) alao Student Union Ticket Office 
casino type entertainment. Also in­cluded will be several cash bars and tables where cheese and fruit will be sold. Extra tickets to this event for mothers, escorts, and other senior girls will be available at registration only. 
A dosing Mass followed by a brunch wlll bring the weekend to an end on Sunday. 

"The Senior Father-Daughter Committee including Karen Young, Chris Hart, Galan Gfroerer, Angela Strengal, and Ann Dugan ha~ worked hard to put together a special weekend for each ofus to share with our father," said Dunn. "We hope it will be a truly special and memorable time for all involved. There's still time to sign up and anyone Interested is encouraged to do so. It promises to be an excep­
The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984 -page 4 
Jewish leaders agree to put aside differences 

Associated Press  
JERUSALEM -Prime Minister­ 
designate Shimon Peres and  
caretaker Prime Minister Yitzhak  
Shamir set aside differences yester­ 
day, vowing to build a joint govern­ 
ment and end Israel's six-week  
political crisis.  
The two leaders met twice yester­ 
day to work out details for a biparti­ 
I  san government, but said they ran  
~  into technical difficulties over how  
r  to hand out government posts to  
smaller parties.  
f  Both said they hoped to finalize  
r  their agreement by early next week.  
"The problems we are facing con­ 
cern the participation of other par­ 
ties," Peres said after the second  
meeting. "We are not dealing with  
matters of personalities, but we are  
dealing with a division of mini­ 
stries."  
Difficulties reportedly arose over  
demands from two small parties that  
they be given C<!binet posts. Both  
Shas ( Sephardic Guardians of the  
Jewish Law) and the National Religi­ 
ous Party reportedly wanted to head  
the Religious Ministry, which con­ 
trols vast sums of money distributed  

Review 
continuedfrom page 1 
believes the University "should be 
open about its investments." Walshe 
is also in favor of "an advisory body 
made up of faculty, students and ad­
ministrators" that would aid in the 
universities investment policies. 
"Notre Dame should be pressur­
ing corporations to dis-engage from 
South Mrica because they are sup­
porting extstmg South African 
regime," argues Walshe. "Black 
leaders have called upon the west to 
disengage the corporations." 
Recently, South Africa established 
a constitution which Walshe sees as 
"excluding Africans." Furthermore, 
Walshe believes most Africans are 
"100 percent against the constitu­

tion." 
"If racism is supposed to be 
overcome with less violence than 
more violence, the people of Africa 
should call upon the west," Walshe 
said. "The whole of this century has 
been peppered with protests in 
South Africa." 
Notre Dame, however, stands firm 
of the policy of social responsibility 
in South Afica. According to Zang, 
Notre Dame also pays thousands of 
dollars every year to subscribe to 
the Investor Responsibility Re­
search Center in Washington, D.C. 
The I.R.R.C. writes general position 
statements and research summaries 
about the situations in South Africa. 
"At any given time, Notre Dame 
probably owns about 200 different 
companies in its porfolios," said 
Zang. "Certainly a number of them 
are large, international companies 
and the kind that we examine." 
Despite the large number of com­
panies Notre Dame invests in, none 
ofthem consider South Africa to be a 
major portion of their overall inter­
national activities, said Zang. In fact, 
some of these companies only have 
one or two percent oftheir activities 
in South Africa and are operated, for 
the most part, by low level officials. 
Notre Dame has the majority ofits 
investments attended to by outside 
advisors who understand the posi­
tion of the university. Although 
Notre Dame does not anounce a spe­
cific list of its investments, their 
policies would permit investment in 
such companies as Goodyear, Gen­
eral Motors, IBM and Eli Lilly. 
to religious institutions. 
Shamir, emerging from the second meeting, said a number of details still required "clarification, drafting and formulating. I hope we will finish this work in the next day or two." 
"We will continue our contacts 
this evening and tomorrow with 
hope that by tomorrow (Thursday) 
evening we will resolve the compo­
sition ofthe Cabinet," Peres said. 
The two men have met half a dozen times to reconcile differences -over who should serve as prime minister first, who should be in the Cabinet, and what to do about Jewish settlements in the Israeli­occupied West Bank of the Jordan River. 
The breakthrough came Tuesday when Shamir backed down from a demand that Peres hand over the premiership after a year. He agreed that Peres will serve the first halfofa 50-month term while Shamir serves as deputy premier and foreign mini­ster. They will reverse roles for the second half of the term. 
Peres' Labor Party and Shamir's Likud bloc remained philosophi­cally at odds over the future of Jewish settlement building in the West Bank. 


APPhoto

New wave 
Democratic vice presidential candidate partner on the ticket, Walter Mondale, bad a battle of Geraldine Ferraro waves to well-wishers during a words with Republican opponent Ronald Reagan. noontime rally Tuesday in Eugene, Oregon. Ferraro's Story on page 5. 

Students! Work Smart. 



Work Simply...With Hewlett-Packard. 
Take a good look at your class schedule. 
If you're in Science or Engineering, chances are your classes include Calculus, Physics, or Chemistry. Engineering Statics, or Dynamics. You're running up against some tough calcula­tions, with statistics problems, hyperbolics, and logs. The HP-llC calculator helps you breeze through those problems with a few simple keystrokes. 
Need to simplify problems that are even more complex? The HP-41CV gives you 128 built-in functions-and the HP-41CX over 200-to sim­plify your long homework assignr:nents. Use up to 6,437 bytes of memory to save the programs and formulas you use often. And there are thou­sands of software programs, so you don't have to start from scratch next term. 
If you're in Business or Finance, you're proba­bly taking Accounting, Statistical Methods, Finance, and Investment Analysis. Classes loaded with tedious calculations. End the pencil­and-paper drudgery with the HP-12C. The most powerful decision-maker on the market! Dedi­cated keys make time value of money calculations, amortization, Net Present Value (NPV), Internal' Rate of Return (IRR), and statis­tics solutions as simple as a single keystroke. And it's easy to change values or correct mistakes without reentering your entire problem. 
Hewlett-Packard calculators. They help you work smart this term. And next term. And even later on the job. Get your HP today from your local HP dealer. 
For the location of the dealer nearest you, call TOLL FREE 1-800-FOR-HPPC. 
Ff/~ HEWLETT ~~PACKARD 
The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984-page 5 

Reagan defends civil rights stance, Mondale on offensive 
Assoslated PreS!!  
WASHINGTON  Walter  F.  
Mondale  charged  yesterday  that  
President  Reagan  has  failed  a  

"crucial test of leadership" on arms control, while Reagan defended his civil rights record and said America has largely outgrown the "ill­spirited divisiveness" of racism and bigotry. 
Reagan barely referred to his Democratic challenger as he talked to a Chicago audience of returning to traditional values after "something of a hedonistic heyday" and moving away from the darker vestiges of the nation's past. 
"In the history of our nation we have had problems with ill-spirited divisiveness-one race thinking it was better than andther. one generation thinking it was superior to another," Reagan ·said. "One of the good l·hanges of recent years is that we have outgrown a lot of that non­
sense." 
And he defended his own record. 
"I know that there's been a lot of criticism that somehow I am opposed to civil rights," Reagan said In response to a. question. "I was raised to believe that there's no sin greater than prejudice or bigotry." 
As the presidential candidates crisscrossed the country in the tradi­tional first week ofthe fall campaign, House Speaker Thomas O'Nelll Jr. urged Mondale to stop being a "perfect gentleman" and come out swinging against Reagan. 
"He's allowed himself to be pushed around by Reagan. They've been sluAAJng him," O'Neill told a news conference in Washington. He said his advice to Mondale is: "come out fighting and slugging." 
Seeking to revive the "Fighting Fritz" image from the primaries, Mondale stayed on the attack against Reagan, telling the American Legion Convention in Salt Lake City that the Republican Incumbent has failed "the crucial test of leadership" by not negotiating an arms control agreement with the Soviet Union. 
Appearing at the convention one day after Reagan, Mondalc said his 

"There is not one party that is patriotic and one that is not. Let's stop this nonsense that there's a party of weak­ness and a party of strength." 
remedy is a quick summit with the Soviet leadership. "On my very first day as president, I will call on the Soviet leadership to 

meet me within six months in 
Geneva for fully prepared, sub­
stantive negotiations to freeze the 
arms race and to begin cutting back 
the stockpiles of nuclear weapons," 
Mondale said. 

He called for his opponents to halt the suggestions that Republicans are for a militarily strong America, while Democrats are for weakness. 
"lbere Is not one party that is patriotic and one that is not. And let's stop this nonsense that there is a party of weakness and a party of strength," Mondale said. "To assert that America is divided on the need for a strong defense is insulting to our people ami encouraging to our enemies." 
Geraldine Ferraro added her voice to her running mate's attacks on Reagan, saying the Republican has not made the nation safer. 
"Let's get this straight. The re­sponsibility for the stalemate on arms control and the rising risk we face rests on the shoulders of two men-the leader ofthe Soviet Union and the president of the United States. And the American people know that," the Democratic vice presidential nominee said In remarks prepared for a joint appear­ance with Mondale in Portland, Ore. 
"And the question Is, are we doing everything we can to strengthen our country, protect our safety and reduce the risk of war? i think the 
answer to that basic question is no," she added. 
Before joining Ferraro in Oregon, Mondale met briefly in Salt Lake City with leaders of the Church ofJesus 
Christ  of  latter-Day  Saints  
(Mormon).  
After  their  dual  appearence,  

Mondale was to head back to Wash­
"There's been criticism that somehow I am op­posed to civil rights. I was raised to believe that there's no greater there's no sin greater than prejudice or big­otry." 
ington and Ferraro to Kansas City, where she headlined a party fund­raiser. Reagan returned to Washing­ton. 
Vice President George Bush was on the attack against Mondale's eco­nomic proposals at a campaign stop in Paducah, Ky. 
He said that if Mondale has the chance to put his spending and tax ideas into effect, there would be a new recession, "bringing the curtain down on the period of sustained proposals as well. But he also urged voters in an appearance before the Economic Club ofChicago to "write letters, send wires, twist arms" to help him win the right of line-item veto over spending bills passed by Congress. 

economic growth  that  everybody  
wants."  
Reagan  rejected  Mondale's  

Such a change, requiring a con­stititional amendment, will be the focus of an "all-out" effort after the election, Reagan said. 
"It's absolutely necessary; it's the most vital tool" for controlling gov­ernment spending, Reagan said. 
And Reagan continued to defend his plans for bringing down the federal deficit and to reject Mondale's declaration that a tax in­crease is essential to slow the flood of red ink. 
"I know I'm accused of not being very specific on this. I think we've been more specific than almost any administration I can remember," he said. 
"To suggest a tax increase simply for the cure of the deficit -why we have had any number of tax in­creases over the last 50 years, and we have had regularly deficits every year for 50 years." 
In his speech, the president returned to a favorite theme: 
"In the past few decades, many of us turned away from the enduring values, from faith, the work ethic and the central importance of the family. We had something of a hedonistic heyday," he said. "Bm It's passing. We've righted ourselves. Across our country there Is a rebirth of the traditional values that guided our fathers and mothers and guided our nation." 


We accept student checks 
Prices Good Thru­with Notre Dame 1.0. 
September 8, 1984 

Prices Good at South Bend Ave. Store ONLY 

LIQUOR
WINE 

BEER 

Popov Vodka
Christian Brothers 
Budweiser 


$699

$799 
1.751
LP
Table Wines 
1.51 


$399 
KahluaLabaHs 

$999
750ml 
Beer or Ale 



$1199 
24BoHies 
GordonsGin 


$999
1.751
DomYago Soanlsh Champagne
7~ml $199 


Gordons Vodka 

$899
1.751 


Lord Calvert 

$999

$699 
1.751 

Lion McGregor 

$999
KEGS 
Scotch 
1.751 

Wall Street Blend 

$899

$799 
1.751
Budweiser 
$3199 'l•bbl 
Michelob 
'hbbl 

$3699 
QUARTS 

$999
BudweiserLite 
$3299 'labbl 

$7
49 
Old Milwaukee 

The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984 -page 6 
Chernenko makes appearance for first time since July, calls for ban 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -President Konstantin Chernenko made his first public ap­pearance since July yesterday, at a ceremony honoring Soviet cos­monauts. His long absence from public view had provoked rumors he was seriously ill. 
But the 72-year-old Soviet presi­dent was shown on Soviet television at a Kremlin ceremony to honor three cosmonauts and in a brief speech he renewed Soviet calls for a ban on space weapons. 
The official Soviet news agency Tass reported Chernenko's partici­pation in the ceremony and several hours later Soviet television broad­cast film of the Kremlin event. Tass also released still photographs ofthe ceremony. 
Western reporters in Moscow were not allowed at the ceremony. 
On television's evening news pro­gram, Chernenko was shown walking into the Kremlin Palace slowly but steadily. He appeared slightly tanned and wore spectacles as he read his five-minute speech clearly. 
Chernenko, known to suffer breathing difficulties, was said by a Foreign Ministry official on Monday to be carrying out his duties. But he had not been seen in public since July 13, when he was photographed greeting U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar. 
Tass on July 15 said Chernenko had left Moscow for his summer vacation. But his absence stretched toward two months, and there was 'speculation that the Soviet leader was seriously ill. 
On television, Chernenko ap­peared normal, but toward the end of the ceremony he appeared to be breathing rapidly. 
Rumors that Chernenko's absence signaled declining health probably arose in part due to the secrecy that surrounded the illness ofthe late So­viet leader Yuri Andropov. Andropov wasn't seen in public for nearly six months before he died in February, but official documents regularly carried his name and he was quoted in the Soviet press up until a few days before his death. 
Chernenko used the awards presentation to again ask the United States to join the Soviets in Vienna for a conference aimed at a treaty banning space-based weapons and anti-satellite systems. 

He presented medals to cos­monauts Igor Volk, Vladimir Dzhanibekov and Svetlana Savitskaya, who became the first wo­man to walk in space during the July mission, and complimented them on their achievements. 
He then urged Washington to preserve space for peaceful en­terprises. 
"It is vitally important to make certain that space should be peace­ful and nothing but peaceful," Cher­nenko said. 
U.S. officials have said they are willing to meet Soviet negotiators for the conference originally pro-· posed for this month, but have ex­pressed interest in broadening the agenda to include other arms issues. 
The Soviets insist that anv talks be limited to space weap~ns. The Kremlin also blames the United States for the breakdown of talks on strategic and long-range missile talks 

in Geneva last November. When NATO deployed cruise and Pershing Two missiles in Western Europe, the Soviet Union discontinued the two sets oftalks. 
Airlines meet to propose schedules 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Airlines, seeking to ward offgovernment control over flight schedules, began marathon meetings yesterday in an attempt to ease delays at six congested airports. 
The day-long meeting concen­trated on congestion at Atlanta's Hartsfield International Airport where sharp competition between Delta Air Lines and Eastern Airlines has led to a concentration of flights during peak travel hours. 
The Federal Aviation Administra­tion, opening the conference atten­ded by about 60 airline representatives, laid out a proposed scheduling plan that would restrict the number of takeoffs and landings 

to  no  more  than  10  every  five  
minutes at Atlanta.  
Similar  restrictions  would  be  

imposed at airports in Chicago, Den­ver, Newark and New York City, which has LaGuardia and Kennedy airports. 
Airline executives said, however, that such a detailed government blueprint was unworkable. They hope during the next week to develop a less restrictive solution, which still meets FAA approval. 
"I'm a little disturbed that they 


Weekend 
continued from page I 
not 21," said Klocke. "I couldn't go because I'm not 21," she added. 
Klocke and Connor encourage everyone to attend the informal weekend, whether they participate in all or just one ofthe scheduled ac­tivities. The committee has even made special provisions for seniors taking the LSATs. A bus will leave Notre Dame after the test Saturday, and there will be free drinks for all students taking the LSATs. 
Registration for the informal weekend takes place today in LaFortune lobby from 12:30 to 2 
p.m. and 6 to 8 p.m. Saint Mary's stu­dents can register in Le Mans from 4 to 8 p.m., but tickets for the Cubs and Bears games can be obtained only in LaFortune. 
Klocke and Connor urge all seniors to take advantage of this in­expensive, convenient way to spend said this was voluntary and now the FAA is looking at it with an eye of a brain surgeon," complained Robert Coggin, assistant vice pr:esident for marketing at Delta Air Lines. Other airline executives said the govern­ment proposal was unrealistic. 
But Jack Ryan, the FAA's air traffic control operations manager, said the agency thinks the limits pegged to short time periods are essential to keep airlines from bunching flights during prime periods. 
The FAA blames many delays on the practice of bunching flights. For example, the airlines' schedules for Sept. 20 at Hartsfield has 19 arrivals at eight departures during a 5­minute span beginning at 8 a.m., nearly three times as many as can be handled. 
Some airlines have also denounced the FAA plan as a threat to competition. People Express, the expanding, low-cost carrier based in Newark, said government attempts to interfere with airline scheduling signals a return to economic regula­tion ofthe industry. 

Meanwhile, FAA statistics showed the delay problem became more se­vere last month with 44,372 flight delays of 15 minutes or longer, about 5,000 more than in July and more than twice as many as in Au­gust 1983. 
About 40 percent of the August delays were attributed to air traffic control limitations and the rest to poor weather. 
But many airline executives were worried the government would make scheduling controls per­manent and expand them to other airports. 


.............................................................................................. 
THE 

RECORD STORE 
Servicing your music needs at discount prices 


Check it out in LaFortune 
SPONSORED BY THE S.A.B. 

............................................................................................... 




A CHALLENGE. 
No one ever said delivering The Observer would be easy. It's a tough job, and we need a talented person to take on the challenge. If you would like to deliver The Observer on Monday, Wednesday and Friday_ call Jeff at 239-7471. 

Victory smile 

Canadian Conservative Party leader Brian Mulroney watches television broadcasting of the election results Tuesday in Baie Comeau, Quebec. The Conservative Party won a landslide victory. 

JOIN A COLLEGE TRADITION 
Work for DOMINO'S PIZZA part time. Delivery personnel and inside people needed. We will work with your schedule. 
Apply at Howard Johnson's US31 
Thursday, Sept. 6 between 11 a.m. & 7 p.m. 
a weekend in Chicago. "No one should go to school here for four years and not fully experience Chicago," said Connor. 


I. 

Klocke agreed. 'The informal is a great way to kick off senior year!" 


~-------------------------------­

The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984-page 7
-


equipment be usesforfield investigations ofparanor­mal occurences happening outside lab conditions. He bas never come in contact with a real ghost, but be says there's always afirst time. 
they're known as ghostbusters. 

In the movie, Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis portray three New York City parapsyc­hologists who launch a private en­terorise. "Ghostbusters," to control 

WE KIOW••• 






THE BEER 
At Anheuser-Busch, brewing is an art. No one takes more time or goes to more effort or expense than we do in brewing the most popular family of beers in the world. 
We take great pride in this distinction, yet this distinction carries with it certain responsibilities. 
Beer is a beverage to be enjoyed by adults socially-with family and friends at home ... in your clubs, restaurants and at special events. It is also the beverage of moderation, and good judgment should be used when you drink. 
Chairman of the Board and President 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • Sl LOUIS 
-

Real-life 'ghostbuster' says job does have its difficulties 
Associated Press an outbreak of ghosts and nasty 
ORINDA, Calif. -He's never spirits that reaches epic-and comic­been slimed and he's never seen a proportions. phantom, but parapsychologist Loyd They use high-tech wares to battle Auerbach says people are more in-the beasts and creatures that invade terested in what he does these days a hotel, library and apartment house thanks to the hit movie in New York. "Ghostbusters." But in reality, Auerbach says, 
Auerbach, a faculty member in the there arc no PK-valence detectors, parapsychology program at John F. no nuclear-powered particle ac­Kennedy University, is a private con-celerators and no devices that suck sultant on psychic matters. He says up subatomic matter, his job has its difficulties. "We'd love something like that ­
"They're hard to get hold of," he it'd make our lives a lot easier," he said of the apparitions that have said. eluded his investigations. "It's not as About half of the spontaneous ifyou can get them to walk into your case investigations seem to include lab, sit down, and start up a con-an element of psychic phenomena, versation." the others stem from a person's psy-
Auerbach, 28, is one of a small chological stress, Auerbach said. band of professionals who conduct There arc about 300 practicing "spontaneous case investigations" -parapsychologists, most of them or investigations of paranormal oc-residing in the United States and currences outside oflaboratory con-Great Britain, according to the 100­ditions. year-old American Society for 
The professionals call themselves Psychical Research. "psychical field researchers," or Dr. Karlis Osis, emeritus professor "parapsychological field inves-at the New York-based society, has tigators." These days, however, . conducted more than I00 field in-


KER. 
Thankfully, the vast majority of those who consume beer do so in moderation. Nevertheless, anything less than responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages is detrimental to the individual and society. We at Anheuser-Busch certainly are concerned about you, our valued customer. Accordingly, we are dedicated to the support of research, education, and treatment programs aimed at combatting alcoholism and alcohol abuse. 
~~4·-~ 
August A. Busch Ill 

vcstigations. 

Osis decries a lack ofghost educa­
tion that leaves many people 
wondering whom to call after they 
run into a suspected paranormal oc­
currencc. 

"To me, it is silly the way in which 
Americans are totally unprepared to 
handle apparition experiences," he 
said. "They run -even from their 
own mothers. This is cruel. We 
should prepare people for all life sit­
uations -not just driving an automo­
bile or crossing a street, but having 
an apparition experience as well." 
John F. Kennedy is a I ,900­
student university that offers mostly 
evening classes in the fields of law, 
management, liberal arts, psychol­
ogy and consciousness-raising 
studies. 

Nestle buys Carnation in $3 billion deal 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Nestle SA, the giant 
Swiss food company, said Tuesday it 
has agreed to buy Carnation Co. for 
more than S3 billion. 

Carnation, a Los Angeles dairy 
products company, said its board of 
directors unanimously approved the 
offer and recommended that its 
shareholders accept the S83-a-share 
bid. 

The merger had been the subject 
of widespread speculation this sum­
mer and helped to lift Carnation 
stock to a 52-week high of S81 in 
trading on the New York Stock Ex­
change on Tuesday. It closed at 
S79. 50, up J4 from the previous ses­
sion. With 1.27 million shares 
trading hands, it was the day's most 
active stock. 

Under the agreement, which is subject to federal antitrust review, Carnation would be merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of Nestle. 
Among the companies under Nestle's umbrella arc Beech-Nut Corp., Libby, McNeill & Libby Inc. and Stouffer Corp. Nestle had a net profit of S600 million on worldwide sales of S 13.3 billion last year. 
Carnation, which earned 1199.3 million on revenue of S3.4 billion in 1983, makes evaporated and pow­dered milk, tomato products, diet and health foods and animal feed. Its brand names include Carnation and Contadina food products; Coffee­Mate non-dairy creamer; Friskles, Mighty Dog and Albers Come 'n Get It pet foods, and Spreadables sand­wich spreads. 
The bid was "a clear sign of Nestle wanting to Increase their represen­tation in the U.S. food Industry," said George Novello, a food industry analyst with E.F. Hutton Group Inc. 


The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984-page 8 



Associated Press 
CORONADO, Calif. -He's 77 now, but Orville Redenbacher's contribu­tion to snack food is keeping his name in the fore as the bow-tied, salt-of-the-earth comic countenance pushing his Gourmet Popping Corn to television viewers worldwide. 
The one-time Indiana farm boy 
learned to appreciate popcorn at an 
early age, thanks to his father, who 
often threw a handful ofcorn kernals 
into a metal wire popper and cooked 
them on a pot belly stove. 
"Nothing tasted better,". said 
Redenbacher, who now lives in a 
luxury high-rise condominium over­
looking Coronado Bay near San 
Diego. 
A native of Brazil, Ind., Redenbac­her at first wanted nothing more out of life than to become a county agricultural agent in Indiana, an ambition he realized after graduat­ing from Purdue University. 
Redenbacher, who worked his way through college by feeding chickens and cattle, taught voca­tional agriculture after receiving his bachelor's degree before becoming a county agent in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Redenbacher's fascination with his favorite snack, however, never diminished. 
His effort to improve the taste of popped corn began one night shortly before World War II while he sipped on some beer and munched a handful of popcorn that he said was flat and unappealing. 
"I decided there had to be a way to improve it," Redenbacher recalled. 
Working with a friend, Charles Bowman, Redenbacher formed Chester Inc. in Valparaiso, Ind., and the two began cross-pollinating one hybrid corn after another in their search for a tasty kernel. 
In 1971, the pair came up with a strain that consistently popped fluffy,light flakes. With the new pop­corn ready for marketing, all that was left was to come up with a catchy title for the product. 
A marketing firm solved the di­lemma by coming up with the idea to name the product after Redenbac­her, whose distinctive name and awkward Midwestern charm in tele­vision commercials boosted his Gourmet Popping Corn into a multi­million dollar business. 
Today, Gourmet Popping Corn's sales account for one-fourth of the popcorn market. Last year, sales of Redenbacher's popcorn were twice those ofits nearest competitor,Jolly Time. 
"The fact that Americans last year consumed 1 0 billion quarts of pop­corn is due in no small part to Or­ville," says William Smith, executive director of the 50-member trade as­

sociation. "The industry owes a Redenbacher continue to represent great deal to him." the popcorn he invented. 
"They took a poll of grade school 

Redenbacher, troubled by ulcers children in St. Paul, Minn., two or in recent years, and Bowman sold three months ago and asked if they their popcorn interests to Hunt-ever heard of Walter Mondale, who Wesson Foods Inc. in 1978 for are-is from Minnesota," Redenbacher ported $2 million. One of the says. "Twice as many of those kids stipulations in the deal was that -knew mP " 

ENROLL NOW!! 
Notre Dame TaeKwonDo Club FIRST CLASS FREE! TONIGHT 
September6 7:00p.m. ACC Fencing Gym 
Bring work-out clothes 
§I  SENIORS! Don't miss registration  I  
H  for  §  
8§§Si  Senior Informal Thurs. & Fri., Sept. 6 & 7 LaFortune Lobby 12:30-2 and 6-8 p.m.  §§8 § ~  
~ ~ §§  Saint Mary's Registration 4 • 8 p.m. LeMans Hall Limited number of Cubs and Bears tix at NO Registration only Cubs tix $3.50  8§S§  
~  See you in Chicago!!  ~  

r.,..,.~....ccococo'"..o""J"~...c:l""'...oco-"~ JCO""~....c>""..r..r~
........ 
I 

~........ ................................ ................
.,. _,...oco'".,..,..,.~.,..,..,..,. .,..,..,..,..,.~.....:r..r..r..r..J 

Are you ARMED? 
With a keen insight and a talent for cartooning? 
If so, Viewpoint is looking for Editorial Cartoonists. 
If you are interested, call Dave Grote at : 
239-5323 
View oint 
Food poisoning traced to drug-resistant germs spread by contaminated beef cattle 
Associated Press tween barnyard and dinner table. 
The new study, conducted by the 
federal Centers for Disease Control, 
BOSTON -For the first time, doc· shows that such bacteria can move tors have traced a serious outbreak from f;rr-m animals into the food of human food poisoning to drug­supply and cause grave, even fatal, resistant germs that spread from illnesses in people. beef cattle routinely fed antibiotics "To my knowledge, this is the first to promote growth. time we've been :>h!e to actually 
The practice of adding antibiotics demonstrate the complete se­to the feed ofhealthy animals is con­quence of events, starting with troversial because ofthe chance that feeding animals additives and killing off most bacteria will allow a progressing through the distribu­population explosion among germs tion to people who became that are immune to the medicines. seriously ill," said Dr. Scott D. 
In theory, resistant germs that Holmberg, who directed the study. grow in drug-fed animals could The doctors traced an outbreak of spread to humans, where they drug-resistant salmonella infection would cause diseases that cannot be among 18 people in four Midwes­treated with the most powerful and tern states last year to one beefherd common medicines. However, in South Dakota. Eleven of the vic­proving this really happens is diffi­tims were hospitalized, and one cult because of the many steps be-died. 

IRISH GARDENS 
WILL BE OPENING SOON! 
IN THE BASEMENT OF LafORTUNE Mon -Sat 12:30 -5:30 
II Attention Faculty !! Friday afternoon 5:30 -8 
g)oonwm

stop by §~\:) to relax and chat over our drink specials, fresh jumbo burgers and the works!! 
University of Notre Dame 
Foreign StudyPrograms 
Tiarjin, china 

NOTRE DAME FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM TO 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN A 
Summer 1985 Program 
WHO= Undergrads &Grads WHAT= Information Meeting WHEN: Sept. 6, 6=30 WHERE: Admin. Bldf., ROOM 422 

----------------------------------------------------------------, 
View~_o_i_n__t ________ Th_u_rs-da.._y,s...ep-te-mb-er-6,_19-84-p-ag_e9 
l 
4 

Dawn breaks, a fine sunny morning on the Notre Dame campus. A student casually strolls out of his dorm and begins a brisk walk to his early class. He moves along the cool concrete walks without a care In the world. 'Ilten in the distance he hears one of them. He knows that 
Andy Saal 
partial paranoid 

It Is lurking behind one of those bushes, but which one? Spick, Spick, Spick, Spick, it rhythmically menaces him. Walt a second, he spots his foe, a sprinkler, hiding in the early morning shade. Spick, spick, spick, he times the sprinkler's rotation and prepares to dash past it. He runs down the sidewalk when sud­denly...Oh no! His path Is abruptly blocked. He barely manages to avoid the high pressure arc of water which seems to strike at him. "I could have sworn that it was going the other way," he says to himself. "It's as if it can 'sense' my presence." He backs away and con­templates another route. With a new course chosen, he speeds along to make up lost time. Then, without warning, another sprinkler jets to life dire<:tly beside him. This time there will be no escape. He stands paralyzed with fear as the sprinkler arcs around for the death blow. Spick, spick, spick... 
Lo, what terrible scheme is undermining our faith in the lawn sprinkler system? What dt·adly force is responsible for the dousings of hundreds of students? Yes, contrary to the prt·vious claims of the administration, some­ont· is tampering with the lawn sprinklers! 
'Ibis story begins a number of years ago in a long forgotten corner, deep in the cellar of Cushing Hall. A solitary graduate student searches for a masters thesis project but is unable to think of one. He flicks on his small television and relaxes while images of the world dance to the dictates of the evening news. "Riots in Poland, how nice! What's this? 'llte Polish police are turning water cannons on the crowd. Look how effective water can be as a weapon; but my, isn't it inefficient? If only someone could think ofa way to improve its targeting capabilities." A light flickers in his mind while a smile stretches across his face. 
Thus, another engineering graduate student hits upon a masters thesis. He soon has the blessings of the Pentagon and sets forth to develop a new weapons system. 
Soon, the Water Employing Targeting Sys­tem (WETS) is under development. A year passes, and finally a prototype is ready. He quietly sneaks onto the quad at night and replaces a real sprinkler with a WETS model. The grad student also mounts a tiny surveil­lance camera to watch the results. The next morning, he anxiously awaits his first victim. Soon, a lowly freshman stumbles down the sidewalk. The main computer links up with a tiny motor in the sprinkler head. Spick, spick, spick, it innocently sprays a fine mist while its prey approaches. Three, two, one, it springs to the attack. Circuits open and close, lights flash and blink, and meter dials jump wildly as the computer sends out command signals. The sprinkler head lashes around 180 degrees, sights it target, and fires a blast ofwater equiv­alent to a fire hose. The drenched and bewil­dered freshman never stood a chance. 
The WETS project was a big success. Pentagon personnel flocked to Notre Dame to see the great new weapons system. But still, the system had to be put through many more rigorous tests. Undercover government men enrolled as students to watch and record the system's effectiveness. Soon, the entire campus was linked to the WETS computer; hundreds of sprinklers bec.ame military prototypes. 
And so it has been for the last few years. This secret government project has been operat­ing on the Notre Dame campus without suspicion until now. Why the security leak? The WETS project was accidently discovered on the South Quad by an enraged football player who tore the sprinklers out of the ground after being sprayed by one. And now the government is trying to cover its tracks. Many people who share this dark secret have been victims of countless sprinkler attacks. Other people have disappeared. But now is the time for truth. With any luck, the whole student body will know the grave danger to which it is exposed. Congress is calling for a secret investigation; but as of now, the exact details ofthe WETS project are still a mystery. 
Andy Saal is sophomore in the College ofSci­ence at Notre Dame. 
Numbers do not a person make 
It's been about three years now since I made a decision that will undoubtedly affect my entire life. After some serious soul­searching (and a final longing glance at my soon to be depleted bankbook), I signed an IBM card, parted with an initial $IOQ, and 
John Perez guest column 

thereby committed myself to attending Notre Dame. 
"What," I asked myself, "do I want in a col­lege?" Academic prestige? Modern facilities? Parties? A few schools seemed to fit the bill, but I wanted still more. At first, the feeling was difficult to define, but I soon recognized this intangible "it" that would make the differ­ence. I wanted an identity. 
The thought of being merely another tiny gear in some enormous monolithic machine ofa school was enough to make me break into a cold sweat. I could visualize myself taking "lntro to Intro 101" in an enormous football stadium among thousands of other faceless freshmen, with Westworld-type robot TA's patrolling the aisles. "Not I!" I said as I thought of the passages in du Lac telling of the per­sonal, caring, communal way of life that be­ckoned me to the Golden Dome. 
So far, I have found this lofty promise to be largely true, as in my opinion the Notre Dame community stands head and shoulders above other comparable universities in making one feel at home. Recently, however, I feel that this attitude may be changing. 
The uneasy feeling began when I received my new handy-dandy-all-purpose-permanent ID card at registration. I learned that besides enabling me to check out library books, at­tend sports events, etc., as in the past, my new ID would be usable for such diverse purposes 
as picking up laundry bundles and gaining ad­
mittance to Senior Bar via an electronic age­
check. "In the future," commented a clerk at 
check-out, "it'll be used for lots of other 
things." The mention of"lots of other things" 
worries me. 
Having previously been the unfortunate 
victim of ID-related mishaps (the registrar's 
office once mixed me up with a departing stu­
dent and sent my classes, grades, meals, etc. 
into electronic oblivion), I am understand­
ably afraid ofhaving my life dominated by that _,. 
funny little stripe on the back of my per­
sonalized green slab of plastic. God only 
knows what it says about me. • 
The important thing to remember is that, 
regardless of how efficient they may be, num­
bers do not a person make. Certainly some 
things need to be more "efficient," as the foot­
ball ticket distribution, but we must be cart•ful 
not to allow automation to interfere with the 
ambience of individuality that ultimately 
made ND my number one choice. There is al­
ways the possiblity that such a "well­
informed" computer system, with it's 
potential large-scale information storage abil­
ity, could be used in a manner that violates the 
privacy of the students it is intended to serve. 
George Orwell's Big Brother concept may 
be a paranoic view of the future, but the tech­
nology definitely exists, and it exists at Notre 
Dame. 
Granted the immediate likelihood of ND 
becoming a police state, with ID checks 
everywhere, is remote. The near future, 
however, may be a different story. It is un­
deniable that plans to increasingly automate 
campus life do exist and that the first steps 
toward that goal have been taken. 
john Perez is a junior in the College ofBusi­ness at Notre Dame, who is employed during the summer as a computer programmer and systems analyst. 
P.O. Box Q 
Help the kids 
Dear Editor: 

Your August 25 cover story on the new al­cohol policy contained a significant quota­tion, attributed to Sr. Jean Lenz who said, "This is really to help protect the rights of the kids." 
Kids? Maybe that's why the administration is having such difficulty communicating with us. The kids are at home. 
Kathleen Maccio South Bend, IN 
Simple jokes 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to "thank" Mr. joseph Murphy for his inspiring "advice" in his article entitled "A Few SimpleJokes" in Tuesday's Observer. I do not know one Saint Mary's student who believes that she lives on the "wrong side of Highway 31." As a Senior at Saint Mary's Col­lege, I could not be happier with my decision to attend this school. By learning in a highly intellectual, spiritual, and social environment, Saint Mary's women develop leadership abili­ties, a strong sense of self-esteem, and many lasting friendships. 
I do not appreciate being told how not to compare myself to others, how not to learn to laugh at my faults, and how not to be afraid to be "my own woman." Moreover, I am tired of reading derogatory articles about Saint Mary's students every year. Articles like Mr. Murphy's perpetuateand perpetuate stereotypes like 305-pound Saint Mary's girls who only visit the SMC bookstore for "candy runs." 
I do not recall ever reading an article writ­ten by a Saint Mary's student which preached on how Notre Dame males and females should or should not act. In fact, if Mr. Murphy's entire purpose was to do away with stereotypes, he weakened his attempt by beginning his article with one of the most degrading stereotypic examples I have read. By reverting to this stereotypic example, Mr. Murphy simply prolonged the very attitude he wanted to erase from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Community. 
Indeed, the Saint Mary's College and Uni­versity of Notre Dame communities do need to grow closer together, but that will never happen as long as articles like Mr. Murphy's continue to be published. 
Maureen T. Karnatz LeMansHa/1 


The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor-m-Chief. . . . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . . Dave Taiclet Managing Editor . . ... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Manpat Horne 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. . . . Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ... Anne Culligan Un1versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . . ..... Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . . .... Jell O'Neill reflect the policies of the admmistratiOn of either mst1tut1on. The news is reported as News Editor . . . Dan McCullough Systems Manager. . .. Kevin Williams accuralely and as ObJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editonals represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor . Anne Monastyrski or a rnaJonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor....... . .. M1chael Sullivan present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor . . . . .... Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966
commun11y. and I he tree express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters, Features Editor .............. Mary Healy IS encouraged. Photo Editor . ........... _... Pete Laches 
Thursday, September 6, 1984-page 10
Sports Briefs contribute to the Notre Dame soc­"I've got to get with my team, get a cer program. Among those plans is a feel for them personality-wise, get a 
desire to upgrade the difficulty of feel for them intensity-wise, try to
Grace 

The ND Men's volleyball club will hold a 
mandatory meeting for all new and returning players today at 7 p.m. 
in LaFortune Little Theatre. Everyone interested is welcome. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame rowing club will have an 
organizational meeting today at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Practice schedule will be discussed. New members are encouraged 
to attend. No experience necessary. -The Observer 

Aerobic classesfor both men and women begin today. Classes run from 4-4:50 p.m. and 5:10-6 p.m. on Mondays and Wed­nesdays. There also will be a class from 4-4:50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Classes will be held in Gym 4 ofthe ACC (above Gate 3 ). Advanced registration is necessary. The cost for the classes is as fol­lows: students -S4 (halfsemester) or S6 (full semester), faculty and staff-n 3(halfsemester) or $25 (full semester). Register at the NVA office. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame squash club will hold an 
organizational meeting today at 6:30 in the LaFortune Little Theater. 
Call Sean at 277-3953 for details.-The Observer 

The St. Mary's Soccer Teamwill play the Notre 
Dame Women's Soccer team on Friday, September 7, at 4:30. The game is at Madeleva Field at St. Mary's. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club will be con­
ducting the annual Novice Boxing Program for beginning boxers. 
The program begins on Monday, Sept. 10, at 4:00 in the boxing room 
ofthe ACC. An organizational meeting will be held Friday, Sept. 7, at 
5:00 in the boxing room. All those interested are invited to attend. For more information call Mike Latz at 2366. -The Observer 
The swimming team will hold an organizational meeting today (this time it's right) for anyone interested in trying out for either the men's or women's squads in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. The women will meet at 4:30p.m., and the men will follow at 5: 15 p.m. All returning swimmers are also asked to attend. -The Observer. 
continuedfrom page 16 
'am I really here?' Sometimes I sit 
back and say, 'I don't believe this."' 
Grace's ecstacy is understandable when one considers the fact that he sees this position as the destination at the end of a road he has been travelling for over ten years. 
The road to Notre Dame began at Indiana University, where Grace earned all-state honors as a striker for the Hoosiers. Following his graduation, the player turned coach and took a position as an assistant at 
I.U. In 1978 and 1979, he was the head coach at Tri-State University. In 1980, he coached at Indiana State­Evansville, and then moved on to an assistant coach's position at Clem­son for two years. Last year, Grace served as the head coach of Bloomsburg University in Pennsyl­vania. 
When then-Irish head coach Rich 
Hunter began looking for an assis­
tant last spring, Grace jumped at the 
opportunity to get back to a Division 
I program in the Midwest. Hunter 
then resigned in August, and his new 
assistant assumed the head spot. 
"I couldn't name another school in the country that I could be as excited about being there, including Indiana," Grace admits. "The poten­tial is here, and it would be more ofa program that Rich Hunter got started and built a great foundation, and then I kind of carried the ball from here." 
Grace concedes that he always will have "intimate ties" with In­diana coach Jerry Yeagley, but he also claims that Yeagley will be his ··enemy... only for one day out of 365:" the day when the Irish meet the Hoosiers on the field. 
"Jerry's obviously done a lot for myself, and I think I've contributed a great deal to Indiana. Now it's time for me to contribute to my own place, and I believe Notre Dame is that place." 
Indeed, Grace has big plans to the team's schedule. 

"My idea would be to play the best competition we can find," he says. "There are a lot of teams within our area we should play; there are prob­ably teams on our schedule that we should think about dropping. I feel what we have to do -and one ofmy recruitingploys will be-to upgrade the schedule. A lot of the quality players are going to be turned otf if they don't come in and play quality teams day in and day out. 
"My philosophy is this: teams would rather be 14-8 and play a tre­mendous schedule than ending up 19-3 and playing three good teams. That's what we're going to live and die with at Notre Dame. I think that I have great support in the athletic de­partment in that feeling. 
"If we're going to act like Sugar­Daddies," Grace concludes, "we've got to go play the Sugar-Daddies." 
Another improvement the new coach hopes to eventually effect is the addition of scholarships to the program. He realizes, however, that he will have to prove himselffirst. 
"I believe you have to crawl before you walk; you have to walk before you run," Grace explains. "I think what we have to do here is go out and establish a program that can be competitive; establish a program that will prove that with a little bit of aid could possibly be elevated to the next level. IfNotre Dame soccer had scholarships, the sky would be the limit potentially." 
While Grace is spending much of his time planning for the future of Notre Dame soccer, he certainly has not overlooked his responsibilities to the 1984 squad. His strategy right now is to take things one at a time while he gets to know his players. 
"I'm fairly demanding," Grace ad­mits, "and I think I have a tendency to make people back up one or two steps till they figure out where I'm coming from and what my objec­tives are. I think we're making strides that way, but it will take time. 
get an idea and paint a picture in my mind of what I can ask of them. And then I ask every bit of it; I ask a hundred percent." 
Grace says that he feels that the players soon will adjust to him as head coach, and that he does not feel any pressure to fill the shoes of his predecessor. 
"I'm doing basically what I was hired to do last May," he claims. "And that is to coach a team, and that is to make that team as good as they can possibly be, and make that team play up to their potential. 
"You know, people ask me about replacing Rich Hunter," Grace con­tinues. "I don't believe I'm replacing Rich Hunter. Rich Hunter is going to be here for the next 50 years, heart and soul. 
"Rich Hunter handed the ball to me and said, 'run like hell; do what you can,' and I'm happy that he had the confidence in me. I'm just con­tinuing to build on the structure he set, and he will definitely be the Godfather of Notre Dame soccer. I'm sure he's going to stay extremely close to the program." 
Dennis Grace already has his first Irish victory under his belt, and he appears to be ready to go after many more in this and future seasons. Notre Dame really seems to be the final destination on Grace's road, and he is ready to make it a com­fortable home for himself. 
"We're talking about a dozen-year preparation," he says. "I've been working toward being in an environ­ment of growth. I'm like a little acorn: if I had fallen on a cement base, I would never have been able to plant roots and grow. Well, I feel here I'm in a nice fertile crescent with a lot ofrain, and that little acorn is going to turn into a mighty oak one ofthese days." 
If the enthusiasm of Notre Dame's new coach is contagious, that acorn may be the start of a formidable for­est. 
Th.-Ohsen•a Notr<: Damto office. located on tht· third floor of LaFortun<: Student Ctonter. acc<:pts classilkd advcrtbing from') a.m. until -l p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Ohserr•er Saint Mary's offic<:. locat<:d on th.: third floor oC Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:50 p.m. until 5 p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline: for nc:xt·day classifit·ds is .~ p.m. All classific:ds muM be prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters er day. 
NOTICES 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 
TYPING SERVICE 2n-5045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE 
BRIDGE BRIDGE BRIDGE Who saye there's nothing to do? Call Town & Country Bridge Center at 255­6613 for more information. 
GRADUATE STUDENTS! The NEW YORK TIMES, the World's 1 newspaper, is available for delivery to your depart­ment mailbox or any other convenient place on campus for only 35 cents on weekdaye. The TIMES guarantees to deliver your paper before 8A.M. the day of publication. It's never too late to order. Simply contact George Devenny at 145 Stanford Hall 283-2094 
UNDERGRADUATES, LAW STU­DENTS, PROFESSORS. STAFF PER­SONNEL, SECRETARIES SECURITY GUARDS, and squirrels. The NEW YORK TIMES WILL DELIVER your copy of the timee for only 35 cents on weekdays. The nmee guarantees delivery to your room. office, carrol. mailbox department office, or tree before 8A.M. the day of publica­tion. It's never too late to order so come on, stay up with the TIMES. contact George Devenny at 145 Stanford Hall 
STUDENTS!! The Computer Canter is now publishing a monthly COMPUTING 
NEWSLETTER to keep you up to date on campus com­puting activitiee. A copy will be sent to each dorm, but we are also offering per­sonal subscriptions on a trial basis. 
See Betty in Room 3 in the basement of the Computing Center/Math Building to subscribe. You must come in person to sign up. Requests will be honored on a first-come, first-served basis while the supply lasts. 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
need 1 or 2 riders to columbus, ohio area. leave fri morn, return sun or mon, call jen­nifer 239-7278 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: BLUE SUIT BAG WITH BROWN TRIM, SENT ON PHILA. CLUB TRUCK. OWEN MURRAY/BOB GUILDAY OR ANYONE WITH INFO PLEASE CON­TACT PAT FINNAN -426 FISHER (3079). 
MISSING: TAN & WHITE KITIEN (FEMALE) LAST SEEN IN N.D. AVE/SO. BEND AVE (N.D. APTS) AREA ON MON­DAY, AUG 27. HAS LIGHT TIGER MARKINGS, STITCHES ON RIGHT SIDE OF NECK. AND BLACK PLASTIC ANTI-SCRATCH COLLAR. PLEASE CALL MARK AT 289-7084 WITH ANY IN­FORMATION. THANKS. 
Lost: AIWA walkman in LaFortune lobby on Monday. The tape is very important. Reward offered please call Annie 272­0816 

FOR RENT 
FURNISHED BASEMENT ROOM FOR TWO STUDENTS. CALL232-6193. 
WANTED 
SOPHMORES' Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­· ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­
6264) 
WANTED: GERMAN TYPIST to transpose large German index from cards to computer. Phone 288-92n. Could live in. 
NEEDED: TWO G.A. TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME: CALL 283-3884 
need 2 tix for purdue. If you like money, call me. x3811 
WANTED; FULL-TIME BABYSITIER AT MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND OCC. 4 YR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORTA­TION TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA. SALARIED. REFERENCES. AFTER 6PM CALL; 289-9193. 
FOR SALE 
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR SOME COOL PARTY SHADES OR SOMETHING TO CUT THE TROUBLESOME GLARE? IF SO, CONTACT YOUR LOCAL CLASSIC SUN GLASSES REP AT 1172. GREAT GLASSES AT GREAT PRICES! 
MAXELL XL2 2.75 1150 Needed: 1 or 2 Purdue tix; Mark x1154 
HELP! MY LITILE BROTHER IS COM­ING ALL THE WAY FROM SACRAMENTO TO SEE THE NO ­COLORADO GAME. BUT I'LL NEED A TICKET. CALL DENISE AT 1330. 
V31 NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
NEED 5 TIX FOR AIRFORCE $$$ call SMC5264 
NO GRAD NEEDS TO BUY OR TRADE FOR 4 PURDUE TIX FOR REUNION WITH ROOMMATES. CALL RON AT 
3301 

TWO S.C. GA'S & 1 STUD. TIX FOR SALE BEST OFFER. RICK 4384 
need many PURDUE TIX. will pay many $$$.Call DAN 1849. 
NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR MIAMI FOOTBALL GAME CALL 283­3294 
I'm out of here NUDE for 2 PENN STATE GA's. Call Tony 2454. 
NEED 1-8 Miami Tickets. I'm from an Irish Catholic family and some of my brothers and sisters are coming for a game. Con­tact Scott 145 Stanford 283-2094. 
I need 2 parent tix for the S Carolina game. Please call Steve at4125. 
Needed desperately. 2 sets of 2 Purdue tickets!! Call Kevin, 3562 
$$$Desperately need three student tix and four GA tix Willing to pay big bucks! Call Karen or Patty at SMC-5254 
HELP! In Desperate Need 01 Two Colorado Tickets! Will Pay $$$ x Julie­4031. 
SUPER DESPERATE!!!! WE NEED ONE PURDUE TICKET REALLY BAD. IF YOU CAN HELP US PLEASE CALL A SKID­DERAT2448. WEWOULDLIKETOSAY THAT MONEY IS NO OBJECT BUT NONE OF US OWN A BANK. PLEASE HELP, THAT IS ONE PURDUWE TICKET CALL 2448, 2453 OR 2452. HELP! 
VIRGINITY and/or MONEY for three Air Force tickets. call2n-4871 
I NEED JUST ONE TICKt:. T FOR MIAMI; AND 2-4 TICKETS FOR THE AIRFORCE GAME. PLEASE CALL SCOTI AT 272­6278. $$$$$. 
I need 3 Purdue tickets. If you can sell me ANY, please give me a call at 1346. 
Will BEAT any offer for 4 Miami tix. Call 1473 and see how much money you can make. 
PURDUE GAs FOR SALE.232-1466 
SELLING JUNIOR STUDENT TICKET PACKAGE, best offer 1301 
Need two tix to MIAMI Will pay $$$$ Call Mary3390 
HELP I NEED STUDENT TICKETS TO THE PENN STATE VS NO GAME WILL­ING TO PAY $$$CALL BILL AT 16490 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S; CALL SCOTI 3281 
PERSONALS 
Hold on, Hold on to your dreams: Hold on, Even though it seems 
MYLONGLOSTBROTHERHASBEEN FOUND. HE WALKED ALL THE WAY BACK FROM VIETNAM, AND HIS ONLY WISH IS TO SEE A NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL GAME. If you have a student ticket or a G.A. lor the Miami game please call Sarah at 1333. Think of it as an act of patriotism. selling your ticket to avet. 
I'll die for you. 
I'll cite for you. 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA OUR FAVORITE RA!IIfll!lllllll MP J MP JMPJMPJ MP J MP J 
H~H~H~H~HOOTER 
YOU'RE A UVING DOLLI 
HOCHH~H~H~HOOTER 
MEN: Please call VIKKI at2761 !!!!! 
I LOVE YOU, GORGEOUS!!! 
AUTHORS! Juniper Press is looking for a manuscript of 7Q-1 00 pages to publish this fall. We need it immediately. Please submit your work to: Juniper Press, Rm. 3390'Shag. 
NEED USED PHILO BOOK: PHILOSO­PHY THE BASIC ISSUES ... WILL PAY $$$. CRAIG 3327 
ROCK-N-ROLL CLASSICS, SUNDAY 11 :PM TO 1 :AM, WVFI, 6400 AM 
URGENT URGENT URGENT I NEED A RIDE TO BLOOMINGTON IND. FRIDAY 9f7 TERESA 284-5454 
BE THERE MASH FANS!!! FOLLOWING THE ORIGINAL FILM, COME DANCE IN ROSIE'S BAR AS YOUR FAVORITE CHARACTER!! FRI. SEPT. 7TH, 10PM HCC!! M•A•S•H• B•A•S•H 
HONEYBUN, AS THE STAAT OF AN­OTHER IMPORTANT SEASON AP­
283-2094 

Everyone around you PROACHES, I JUST WANT TO SAY I ............•.......~---······ ·······:.:·.:::~::::::;!_!!!.!t... --Has their little schem811; HOPE THAT YOU MAINTAIN THE BEST 
-TICKETS 
LOST: A CASIO WATCH near Holy Usten to your heart OF HEALTH, THAT ALL OF YOUR PER­
STUDENT TICKET LOTIERY for 

Cross Hall this Sunday. call Sue at 2960. Help! My parents want to relive their youth And hold on to your drflllms. SONAL AND TEAM-ORIENTED GOALS 
I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI
NOTRE DAME/MICH.ST. game THIS 

.-and they need South Carolina tickets to BECOME REALITIES AND THAT YOU
GAME!!!!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 2n-2581
THURS. SEPT.6TH FROM 1Da.m-4p.m. NEED 8 MIAMI GA'S WILL PAY 

do so. Please help them through their col­-Triumph ALWAYS REMEMBER THAT I'M BE­
OR 239-7471.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
in student gov/student act.board office MASSIVE BUCKS 3639 

lective midlife crisis. Call Kristin at x3838. HIND YOU 100/!! LOVE YOU, J.G. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

--~-­

The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984 -page 11 

Navratilova, Lendl win; McEnroe-Fleming lose 
A.ssoclated Press 
NEW YORK-Martina Navratilova and Chris Evert Lloyd, the world's top two women players, escaped the wave of upsets that slashed through the field at the U.S. Open Tennis Championships yesterday and ad­vanced to the semifinals ofthe 12.55 million tournament. 
Young Pat Cash of Australia shocked fourth-seeded Mats Wilander ofSweden 7-6,6-4,2-6,6-3 in the men's quarterfinals, while Canada's Carling Bassett ousted No. 3 Hana Mandlikova of Czechos­
lovakia  and  Australian  Wendy  
Turnbull  eliminated  No.  4  Pam  
Shriver In women's play.  

In the night's final singles match, second-seeded Ivan Lend! of Czec­hoslovakia made his third straight trip to the semifinals here by easily downing Ecuador's Andres Gomez, the fifth seed, 6-4, 6-4, 6-1. With the 
victory,  Lendl  next will  take  on  
Cash.  
Lloyd,  a  six-time  winner  of  

America's premier tennis event, easily defeated Sylvia Hanika ofWest Germany 6-2, 6-3 and Navratilova dispatched Czechoslovakia's Helena Sukova 6-3, 6-3, while No. 13 Turnbull upset Shriver 2-6, 6-3, 6-3 and No. 14 Bassett surprised Mandlikova 6-4,6-3. 
In the women's semifinals, Lloyd will play the 16-year-old Bassett, while Turnbull, 31, will face Nav-double-faulted at match point. ratilova. Because of Tuesday's rain, 

In what figured to be a battle of McEnroe and Fleming were forced strong baseliners, Lendl was domi-to play two doubles matches yester­nant, repeatedly hitting the lines day, defeating John Lloyd of Great with his strong groundstrokes. He Britain and American Dick Stockton outplayed his left-handed opponent earlier In the day. from the backcourt and, when he Navratilova had a much harder did journey to the net, punctuated battle on her hands than the score the point with putaway volleys. indicated. Sukova broke her in the 
The defending men's doubles third game of the first set to take a champions -John McEnroe and Peter 2-1 lead. Fleming -were ousted in their semi-But the talented left-hander, who final match last night by the Swedish ran her winning streak to 53 con­pair of Anders Jarryd and Stefan Ed-secutive matches -second only to berg, 3·6, 7-6, 7-5, 7-6. Lloyd's record 56-match string ­
The Swedes won the first tie-broke back in the fourth and sixth breaker 1 0-8, and took the final set games, then held her own next two tiebreaker 7-2 when McEnroe services for the set. 
Navratilova appeared ready to blast the 6-foot-1% sukova off the court when she ran up a 3-0 lead to begin the second set. But the right­hander battled back, breaking Nav­ratilova at 15 in the fourth game and holding serve in the fifth to pull to within 2-3. 
However, with the victory in sight, Navratilova was not to be denied, breaking Sukova's service in the ninth game to close out the 59­minute match and move into the semifinals. 
"I had a hard time getting warmed up tonight," Navratilova explained of her slow start. "A couple of balls escaped me because ofthe darkness, but I was able to handle it." 
Cash, at 1 9 the best prospect from 


Australia in more than a decade, kept the pressure on Wilander, taking the net at every chance, forcing the Swede to thread his passing shots down the line. 
Cash also was able to trade ground strokes with Wilander, the 1982 French Open and 1983 Australia Open champion who entered this tournament after recovering from a wrist injury. 
Cash took the opening-set tie­breaker 7-3, winning six of the first eight points, then broke the 20-year­old Swede in the 1Oth game of the second set to take a 2-0 lead. 
But Wilander, who won nine tour­naments last year -more than any player on the men's tour -was not about to quietly go away. He found the range with his lob shots and his passing shots off both sides, taking a 3-0 lead. Then, after Cash won two 
straight games, Wilander  won  the  
next  three  games  to  capture  the  
third set.  
The  two  battled  evenly  in  the  

fourth set, with the 15th-seeded Cash finally breaking Wilander's ser­vice in the eighth game. It was the only break he needed to wrap up the victory and a semifinal berth -the first for an Australian since 1974 when both John Newcombe and Ken Rosewall reached the final four. 
John McEnroe, the men's top seed, and defending champion Jimmy Connors were scheduled to play their quarterfinal matches today -McEnroe against Gene Mayer and Connors against Britain's John Uoyd. 
Seeking her seventh champion­ship in America's premier tennis event, Chris Evert Lloyd raced to a 3-0 lead against the unseeded Hanika. And, although Lloyd lost her serve twice -in the fourth and sixth games -hanika was unable to hold her service in the first set. 
In the second set, Hanika, a left­hander, took the first two games, breaking Lloyd in the second. But Lloyd won the next four games, held serve in the eighth and broke In the ninth to close out the match. 
"I really never think of my achievements," said Lloyd, who never has failed to reach the U.S. Open semifinals, beginning in 1971 when she was 17 years old. "I never have been the one to dwell on these things because if I did I feel I would never be able to hit another tennis ball." 
Bassett began Wednesday's pro­gram by ousting Mandlikova, the 1980 runner-up in this tournament on the hardcourts of the National Tennis Center. 
The two took turns breaking each others' service in the second through the fifth games, then Bassett broke Manlikova in the I Oth game to close out the first set. 
Playing in her first tournament since Wimbledon because of a bout with mononucleosis, Bassett took a 3-0 lead in the second set, then lost her service In the fifth game. But she broke back in the sixth, then held serve In the seventh and ninth games to win the match and advance to the semifinals and a meeting against Lloyd. 

~ -~ ---­
The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984-page 12 
B b II S d• Twins, Royals lead 
ase a tan tngs A.L. West race remains wide open 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE Eat ':at 

Associated Press tention this late in the season since shortstop Bucky Dent, a veteran of
W L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
Detroit 89 51 .636 Chicago 84 55 .604 they won the title in 1970. Only two Yankee pennant years, mainly be­Toronto 80 59 .576 8.5 New York 78 61 .561 6 The American League's Mild, Mild years ago, they lost I02 games, and cause both of their shortstops were 
Baltimore 75 63 .543 13 Philadelphia 73 65 .529 10.5 New York 74 64 .536 14 51. Louis 71 66 .518 12 
West may be won by default. last year they were 22 games below hurt at the time. 
Beeton 74 65 .532 14.5 Montreal 68 70 .493 15.5 The Minnesota Twins, Kansas City .500. They began this year as 250-l Down the stretch, the Royals play Cleveland 62 79 .440 27.5 Pittsburgh 60 79 .432 24 
Royals, California Angels, Chicago shots to win the AL pennant. 19 oftheir last 25 games against Min­
Milwaukee 57 82 .410 31.5 Weal Weal San Diego 80 60 .571 White Sox and Oakland A's all have a Relief ace Ron Davis, one of the nesota, California and Oakland. Kansas City 70 69 .504 Houston 70 70 .500 10 
chance to challenge an infamous few Twins who's been in a pennant The Angels probably possess
Minnesota 70 69 .504 Manta 68 71 .489 11.5 Celifornia 69 69 .500 .5 Los Angeles 66 74 .471 14 baseball record by winning the divi­race, said, "We weren't expected to more potential Hall of Famers than 
Oakland 65 75 .464 5.5 San Francisco 58 81 .417 21.5 sion with the fewest victories. be in first at the end ofAugust, so we any other team, headed by Reggie
Chicago 64 74 .464 5.5 Cincinnati 58 82 .414 22 
Seattle 63 n .450 7.5 The 1973 New York Mets won the have nothing to lose. There's no Jackson and Rod Carew, along with 
Texas 61 77 .442 8.5 Yeaterdlly'a Reaul18 National League East with 83 vic­pressure 'cause no one thought we'd veterans Fred Lynn, Doug DeCinces New York 4, Pittsburgh 2 
tories, four more games than they be here anyway." and Bobby Grieb. 
! 
Yeaterdlly'a Reaulta Montreal3, Chicago 1 New York 4, Toronto3 (10 innings) St. Louis 6, Philadelphia 5 lost. That record is in danger, and it's The Twins' starters include two But all of them are well into their Detroit 1. Baltimore 0 San Diego 15, Cincinnati 11 
likely the AL west winner will be the rookies and seven players with three 30s, and they just aren't hitting.
California 11. Cleveland 4 Los Angeles 4, Atlanta 3 Milwaukee 7, Beeton 5 Houston 4, San Francisco 1 only team in the division with a years' experience or less. "The Angels seem to have some­Oakland 5, Chicago 4 
record better than . 500, as Chicago "The pressure is bound to build thing missing," Smithson said. "They
Seattle 6, Texas 5 (10 innings) 

was last year. up. We're only human," pitcher
Kansas City 4, Minnesota 1 just don't seem hungry." 
Through Labor Day weekend, Mike Smithson said during the The Angels' schedule includes 12 even last-place Seattle was only nine Twins' recent 9-for-ll losing streak. of their last 26 games against "The last time most ofus were in this Cleveland and Texas. 
l 
t r...----------------------------.....1 
and one-half games out, and no one 

was taking charge. Only fifth-place kind of situation was Uttle League, Texas, with a 6-4 mark, had won and that's a whole different thing." Chicago is the sleeping giant. more games than it had lost over the The Twins still have to play Last year, Texas Manager Doug
Mets defeat Pirates; 

previous 10 games. Kansas City and Chicago, but 13 of · Rader said the White Sox were Spicing the race is a schedule that their last 25 games are against Texas "winning ugly." They won 99 games has the four top contenders finishing and Cleveland. and finished 20 ahead of the pack.
gain game on Chicago 
on the road -Minnesota at Cleveland Uke the Twins, the Royals weren't This year, they have been losing Kansas City at Oakland, California at supposed to be in this race, this ugly, including eight extra-inning Associated Press Louis Cardinals over the Philadel­Texas and Chicago at Seattle. being a rebuilding year after cocaine setbacks in the second half of the 
phia Phillies, 6-5. Chicago and Kansas City have the suspensions and trades. season. 
PITTSBURGH -Ray Knight's sixth­Philadelphia's Jerry Koosman toughest September schedules. Royals Manager Dick Howser has Some of last year's heroes -Cy inning infield single drove in one allowed seven hits and took a 5-2 They are the only contenders who patched together an able starting Young winner LaMarr Hoyt, Rookie run and another scored when Pit­lead into the ninth. He left when don't play Texas and Cleveland. crew, including Bud Black, Mark 
• 
ofthe Year Ron Kittle, Greg Luzinski, tsburgh shortstop Ron Wotus threw Terry Pendleton led offwith a single. The West champion probably Gubicza and Charlie Leibrandt, all of Julio Cruz and Rudy Law -have been wildly on the play, sending the New would finish in the bottom half of whom can rely on reliever Dan disappointing. York Mets to a 4-2 victory over the Reliever Larry Andersen got the AL East, buttressing New York Quisenberry in the late innings. Pirates. Lonnie Smith to bounce into a Yankees' owner George Steinbren­Kansas City, unlike Minnesota, has Oakland's biggest problem is Pittsburgh led 2-1 whenJohn Can­fielder's choice, and Smith then stole ner's comment that the AL west is a been there before-finishing first or weak starting pitching and too many delaria left the game with tightness second. Smith took third on a groun­joke. second eight times in the past nine teams to leap-frog. But with offen­in his left elbow after scattering five dout, and after Steve Braun walked, But before baseball fans start seasons. True, most of those players sive weapons like Dave Kingman, hits over five innings. reliever AI Holland took over. laughing, they ought to thank the are gone. But George Brett, Hal Dwayne Murphy, Carney Lansford Lee Tunnell, 1-4, took over and Bill Lyons, a .080 hitter, singled West for providing what's sure to be McRae, Willie Wilson and Frank and Rickey Henderson and a gave up a leadoff single in the sixth home Smith to make it 5-3, and Dar­the most amusing race in baseball's White remain, and along with schedule that includes 12 games to Keith Hernandez before walking rell Porter followed with a single final month, and possibly the only Quisenberry, give the Royals a core against Cleveland and Texas, the A's 
Hubie Brooks with one out. After that loaded the bases. Andy Van one. ofpressure-tested veterans. can't be counted out. 
Darryl Strawberry moved up the Slyke then singled home the tying runners with a groundout, Knight runs, and McGee won it for St. Louis singled into the hole at short to with his opposite-field single. score Hernandez and Brooks came The loss was the fifth straight for home when Wotus threw the ball Holland, 5-10. Dave Rucker,.2-3, the into the Mets' dugout for an error. third St. Louis pitcher, got the vic­
New York added an insurance run tory. in the ninth off Rod Scurry. Bruce Berenyi, 11-13, allowed six 

Royals 4, Twins 1 
hits over_ six innings until being replaced by Doug Sisk, who pitched KANSAS City, Mo. -Frank White one-hit relief over the final three in­lashed a two-out, two-run double offnings to gain his 15th save. 

Ron Davis in the eighth inning Wed­nesday night ta boost Kansas City to a 4-1 victory over Minnesota and forge a tie between the Twins and Royals in the American League West 
Expos 3, Cubs 1 
race. 

Davis relieved Mike Smithson, 13­MONTREAL -David Palmer 
12, after Pat Sheridan blooped a one­pitched six scoreless innings of 
out double. With two out,Jorge Orta three-hit relief and singled home a 
was intentionally walked, and both run as the Montreal Expos ended 
scored on White's drive into left Chicago's four-game win streak, 
field. beating the Cubs 3-l Wednesday night. 

Yankees 4, Blue Jays 3 
Palmer, 6-3, took over from 

starter Dan Schatzeder, who left NEW YORK-Don Baylor blasted a
with an inflamed left elbow after two-out home run in the 1Oth inning
pitching the first inning. after Dave Righetti hurled three in­
The loss reduced the Cubs' lead in nings of one-hit relief as the New
the National League East to six York Yankees edged Toronto 4-3
games over New York, which beat Pittsburgh 4-2. 

last night, dropping the second place Blue Jays 8 1-2 games behind
Dick Grapenthin took over in the first-place Detroit in the American
seventh and got his second save League East. 
despite allowing Chicago's only run in the eighth. 

Baylor smashed Roy Lee Jackson's Montreal took a l-0 lead in the 3-1 pitch over the wall in left for hisfirst when Gary Carter singled off 25th home run this season. JacksonSteve Trout, 12-6. The hit drove in fell to 7-7.
Miguel Dilone. 

Righetti, 5-5, the third YankeeIn the fourth, Carter and Tim Wal­pitcher, struck out four and walkedlach opened with singles before ad­none in gaining the victory.
vancing on Dan Driessen's groundout. Doug Flynn was inten­tionally walked, but Argenis Salazar, 

Keep School Froa Getting Boring who entered the game with a .135 
Put some excitement in your life. 
batting average, singled to drive in a 

Visit Skyports Unlimited, Inc and 
run. Palmer made it 3-0 by following 

learn to Hy in just one hour. Be­
with a single to right, only his third 

come a Paraplane Pilot, exper­
hit in 27 at-bats this season. 

ience the safety of a parachute and the freedom of Hight of an Ultra­
Cardinals 6, Phillies 5 

light. 20 ainatee froa ca•pae ST. LOUIS-Willie McGee went 5­
SKYSPORTS UNLIMITED, Inc. for-5 and singled home the winning 
Roate 1 Tyler Road run with two outs in the bottom of 
Walkerton, IN the ninth, capping a four-run rally 

:IU9-5116-S511 Boulae.. Wednesday night that lifted the St. 
219-516-2663 Ho•• 
The Twins haven't been in con-The Royals also picked up No one can in the Mild, Mild West. 
BANKING••• ONCAMPUSATSMNTMARYS 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers &ee checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
Join Michiana's 1st Team 
..:aank 

for unsurpassed banking service! Member F.D.I.G. 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join their company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during yourjunior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical science, find out more today. And letyourcareer pay off while still in college. For more informatiOn, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: CALL TOLL FREE 1 -800 -382 -9782 Navy Representative will be on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement Office 

The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984 -page 13 
spot in the midfield. lbc Park Ridge, As far as team strategy goes, Grace Ill., native scored 21 points last year, has a philosophy that he must stress
Preview Carney, Viracola fill 
while distinguishing himself by defense before offense. playing very aggressive defense. "You never want to 'lay hack,' so 
continuedfrom page 16 
Mark Bidinger, a junior who to speak, but tJ"ic championship scored 19 points last year, will sec a teams are built from the defense up. 
big shoes of graduated
lkrdt:gt·n nt:t:ds SI points this year lot of playing time at midfield, as If you don't have a strong defensive 

··gQowerrg {;orr aQQ occagLo"g ,, 
Come in and Browse 

327 lincolnway 232-3354' 

team, you're eventually going to get 
By THERON ROBERTS "We think Mike can do the job for 
heat; you're not going to make it Sports Writer us,'' Faust says. "With the kicking very far. 
game playing a vital role in college"And when I say 'defensive team,' Before the 1983 season began, the football, teams need a punter who is I don't mean the four baclcs or the point of emphasis for the Notre reliable." 

strong midfieldcr, I mean when the Dame football team was to find a John Carney, a freshman who won ball turns over, we have a philoso­tight end who could replace Tony the kickoff duties from johnston at phy that all I 1 players play defense, Hunter, who had advanced to the the beginning of the 1983 season,including our strikers. When the hall pro ranks. has a solid grao;p on the job as turns over, and we gain possession, Many people were skeptical at the placekicker.
all I I players become. offensively­beginning oflast season that anyone Carney boats impressive power in minded. 
could approach Hunter's success his leg, as evidenced by his kicking"We're going to play what I like to when the name Mark Bavaro was 43 of his S9 kickoffs to the op­call 'positive American soccer,'" tossed around. But, by looking at ponent's goal line, and only 25 of Grace explains. "You know, we're Bavaro's statistics for 1983, many them were returned. 
going to take it to them, and if people became believers.
people can run with us and keep "Our kickers have been doing
This year the role of punter and
with us, fine. But I'm not going to let really well," says Faust. "They have
placekicker falls under the same cat·
people just come at us, either. We're improved their accuracy lao;t spring
cgory. Nothing would please Head
going to try to open them up, and and this fall, and we're really
Coach Gerry Faust more than to see 
scare them a little bit, and see what pleased.
the same thing happen by the end of 
we can do offensively." "We have a lot of confidence in
this season. 

Grace docs admit that he has run our kicking game now,'' Faust con­
Mike johnston, who is second on 
into a few problems bringing his tinues. "I wouldn't have been able to
the all-time list of Irish field goal
players together into a team. He sug­say that in May." 
kickers, had the placekicking duties 
gests, however, that when one ofthe 
for past two two seasons. Blair Kid, 
junior Hal Von Wyl has beenplayers emerges as a strong leader, 

Notre Dame's punter from 1980 to 
slated for backup duties in both pun­the situation will improve. 

1983, racked up over I 0,000 yards 
ting and kicking. The strong-legged"We don't have the cohesiveness 

in punts and placed second on the 
junior has been improving through­we should have right now as far as 

all-time list for average yards per 
out the fall, and looked especiallyon-the-field play, but in time we will, 

punt, but also must be replaced. 
good in the final Irish scrimmageI think. 

"The kicking game has reeally 
before Purdue last week.

"I know the boys are not being ex­
come along this fall," Faust says.
actly how they would be if Rich "The kickers have looked good in "Von Wyl has made a big improve­Hunter were here -not good or bad practice and the punting has really ment. He is our backup punter, he's they are just going to be different," improved, also." really improved on that. He's done Grace points out. "So, I think there Fifth-year senior Mike Viracola quite well this fall. He's worked very are people who are waiting in the has been slated to do the punting hard on it." 
wings who will take that leadership 
chores for the Irish this fall. Viracola, 
role. But maybe with me here, and who had been a walk-on, was offered With the justified optimism Faust the transition that they have had to a scholarship to remain for his final shows in regard to the kicking game, go through, they're a little bit slower year of eligibility after being Kid's this apparent Irish weakness should at taking that responsibility." 
backup all of last season. In 1983, not be a concern to Notre Dame Grace says he would like to dis­Viracola averaged 34 yards in four fans, as the situation seems well in cover his teams strengths and utilize 
punts. hand. 
them, rather than try to change tac­tics against some of the tougher teams ( eg. Indiana, St. Louis, Mar­
Harris to pursue Brown's 
quette, Akron) on the schedule. 
If the Irish can achieve Dennis 
record with Seattle Seahawks 
Grace's goals this season, they Associated Press ment for a contract with the Seattleshould, indeed, be successful. They Seahawks Wednesday, just two daysmay even be able to gain the NCAA SEATTLE -Franco Harris, only 363 after the Scahawks lost star runningplayoff bid that has eluded them for yards shy of breaking Jim Brown's back Curt Warner with a severe seven years. After all, Grace admits, National Football League career knee injury.
"that's our goal, ultimately." 
rushing record, reached an agree-The announcement was made at a hastily called news conference at the Seahawks' offices in Kirkland, after Harris, 34, flew into Seattle­Tacoma International Airport with his agent, Bart Beier of Pittsburgh. 
"This was the worst-kept secret in football,'' said Mike McCormack, 
president and general manager of the Seahawks. "We're just real happy to have 

PREPARE FOR: 
GMAT 
Franco here," said Seattle head

• TEST-N-TAPE•· LIBRARY 
Coach Chuck Knox. "I've been a big

• REINFORCEMENT TEST 
• HOMESTUDY PACKET admirer ofhis for many years." "I hope I look good In blue," a
CLASSES STARTING 
smiling Harris said. "I'm real excited September9 about being here. I like the enthusi­I asm and attitude here." Asked whether he would be able
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272-4135 
to play Sunday against the San Diego Chargers in Seattle's second regular 

to stt:al tht· nurnbt:r-ont: spot from 
Knin Lovejoy. 
Joining Hcrdcgcn on the front line will he David Miles. a junior from South Bend, who was third on the Irish scoring list two years ago before spending a year studying in Rome. Miles, a S-1 0, 16S-pound ar­dlitecturt: student, will play one of the wing positions. 
'Jbt: third forward usually will be sophomore Pat Szanto, when he is healthy. Presently, the 6-0 resident of Poughkct:psie, N.Y., is recovering from a separated shoulder. Szanto was able to get some playing time last night, but he is not yet at full strength. 
Szanto was the number-two scorer on last year's team, with 32 points on 16 goals, and ht: also will bt· needed for his scoring power this yt·ar. 
"lbe Irish midfield this year will sorely miss sophomore Eric Evans, the center halfback who played in all 2Z. games last fall. Evans will miss all or most of this season with a broken kg. 
Also missing from the midfield is senior tri-captain Steve Chang, who also has a broken leg. Chang is a solid all-around player, and he was a cap­tain last year. 
Junior Chris Telk will be trying to takt· up a lot of the slack in the mid­field caused by the absences. Tclk, however, is recovering from a liga­ment injury at the moment, and he cannot yet maneuver as well as he did last year, when he contributed I 7 points to the Irish attack. 
junior Tom Daley also will fill a enough depth to fill the positions at midfield, and he has some strategies to overcome any weak spots. 
should  sophomore  rookie  Chris  
Ryan.  
Grace  feels  that  his  team  has  

"Sometimes you've got to field some shoes that you wouldn't nor­mally have to field because of attri­tion," he concedes. "We're going to play different formations depending on who we play and what our weak­nesses and strengths are and depending on injuries."· 
lbe defense seems to be the strong point on this year's squad. Dominick Driano, the team's third captain, will anchor the defense from his sweeper position. Last year, the S-1 1, 170-pound Driano was a key part of the "Irish Curtain" that allowed its opponents only 1 5 goals all season. 
junior jock Mutschler will play the stopper position, while class­mate Stuart MacDonald and fresh­men Steve Reymer and Steve Lowney will get time at the wing ful­lback positions. 
Grace says he is very optimistic about his goalkeepers. Sophomore jim Flynn and junior Mark Steranka both are competing for the starting role. 
"lbcy're pushing each other very good right now, which is a good sit­uation," said the Irish coach. "It's healthy to have people pushing each other for starting roles, and our keepers are doing that One of them will just rise above; I'm going to let them fight it out. They're that close." 
usc 

UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOLS COMMITTEE 
Become a representative of the Admissions Office to your High School over October or Christmas break. 
For applications and further informa­tion, stop by the Admissions Office, Room 113 Administration Building. 
AppUcatloa deadllae, Scpteaber15 
season game, Harris replied, "hopefully. I feel good. I feel in good shape and ready to go." 
Harris played all 12 ofhis previous NFL seasons in Pittsburgh, where he amassed 11,9';0 yards rushing and 91 touchdowns on 2,881 carries In 16'; games. 
But Harris, caught In a contract squabble with the Steelers, was released by Pittsburgh on Aug. 20. None of the NFL's 27 other clubs picked him up on waivers. 
"That thought did pass my mind,'' the 6-foot-2, 225-pound Harris said when a~kcd whether he thought he wao;n't going to get a chance to break Brown's all-time record. "Will I get a chance to play? i didn't know for sure." 
Neither the Seahawks nor Beier would disclose terms of the con­tract. 
Harris said he signed a one-year contract with the Seahawks. Beier, a lawyer, said he worked out the deal in a 90-minute meeting with McCor­mack Wednesday. 
The Observer Thursday, September 6, 1984-page 14 
Corrigan 
continuedfrom page 16 
Q. Some people might say that a stipend brings in profes­sionalism. What is your reaction to that criticism? 
A. No. I don't think so. People that buy students pay more than that an }'way. Forget about athletics. They pay more than that anyway to get a student, so that doesn't worry me. 
Q. let's talk a little bit about penalties for violators. Is the NCAA being too lenient now? 
A. I think so. I think they should hit them harder. I'm not even sure, though, that television is something they should penalize. For example, USC is suing us now, right? This is just ridiculous, because, like I told the lawyer, we didn't sue them last year when they couldn't be on be­cause they cheated and we didn't. They hurt our people. Now you're telling us that we're hurting you by telling you we're not going to be on because ofa television con­tract. I think that sometimes hurts the innocent. I mean, why should Notre Dame pay because Southern Cal is on probation? Ifyou want to hit them, you take scholarships away from them. Let them bring in only 20 a year for four years. 
Now, you're really going to hurt somebody. Keep them out ofa bowl for a couple years. Those things help a little bit. But they sometimes hurt the innocent schools in the conference more than they really should. But if you hit them there, and say that maybe three or four oftheir staff can't go on the road recruiting, now you're really going to sting them, because you can't play without players and the only way to get players is to recruit. And ifyou don't bring in certain numbers each year, then you really have 
prohl~rn" 
Q. Now I'm going to name three different cases and I would 
like you to tell me what kind ofpenalty you think would fit each. Say a player got S100 on a recruiting visitfrom a 
coach. 
A. Ifit was proven that the coach gave him that? 
Q. I know it's hard to document but we'll say in this case that it has been. 
A. If you could document it, I think you ought to fire the coach. You just say the coach can't coach. It seems to me that would be a logical thing to do. Why punish everybody else? Why punish the school, who may or may 
Monetary Payoffs 
BOWL GAMES 
per team 
Aloha -$400,000 Bluebonnet -$465,000 California -$111,000 Cotton -$1,800,000 Fiesta -$817,000 Florida Citrus -$500,000 Gator-679,000 Hall of Fame -$450,000 Holiday-412,000 Independence -$400,000 Liberty -$574,000 Orange -$1,800,000 Peach -$418,000 Rose-$5,600,000 Sugar-$1,800,000 Sun -$401,000 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
per team 
Ffrst Round-$162,158 Regional -$486,472 Final Four -$648,630 

not know about it? But, if somebody does it, and it can be documented, they shouldn't be allowed to work. 
Q. Say a player sells his tickets. 
A. I don't think they ought to do anything. In fact, I think they ought to work it ought so that the players don't sell their tickets for more than their value is. They've tried everything to keep players from selling tickets, and noth­ing works. If you want to find a way to sell your tickets, you'11 find a way to sell your tickets. So, that one is not one that bothers me. If a coach sells them for the players, like they did at USC, the coach ought to be fired. The coach ought to be fired. And if the players are abusing it, they ought to be held accountable, too, because you can't just hold one side accountable. Ifeverybody knows what the rules are, then everybody has to work within them. 
Q. Say that an alumnus, or subway alum, gives a player the use of a credit card, unlimited use, without the knowl­edge of the coach. 
A. Well then you've got to punish the school. You have no other choice -and that's a hard one -because there are alumni that will do those kind of things, even in the best­meaning schools. Ifit happens, you're just going to have to punish the school some way. 
Q. What is Notre Dame's policy on reporting violators to the NCAA? 
A. I guess our policy is that if a coach comes in to me with something, I want him to call the coach of the other school and confront him with it, and I will call the athletic director from the other school and confront him. If we don't get a satisfactory answer, then we turn them in. 
Q. What is your feeling on proposals where the athlete would lose his eligibility but keep his scholarship when there is a violation? 
A. I think they ought to keep their scholarship in those kinds of things because that's the one commitment you should be able to make to somebody is that you'll give them the opportunity to come for four years. 
Q. Public sentiment on something like that might say that you're being too harsh on a player for only one mistake he's made in his life, at 18, 19, 21, whatever. 
A. Well I don't think you would do that unless you were sure that the player was aware of the rules, had been told the rules, understood the rules. You're still not taking away 
"Isn't it in the Middle East where ifyou steal something, they cut your hand off? Would you steal? Would you steal, though, ifsomebody was only going to hit you on the back ofthe hand with a ruler? You might. I guess it depends on how hungry you are.,, 
their scholarship. You're still giving them the chance to go to school. 
Q. Say that there wasn't a stipend in place, and player says, "I had no choice. I really needed the money that bad." 
A. My guess is that you would take each case on its merit. 
Q. What does Notre Dame offer its scholarship athletes as far tutoring, extra help, and things like that? 
A. I guess we're the sameas everybody else. That's one thing that is allowed, and that's one thing that we do, probably as well or better than anybody. Professor DeCicco and the academic counselling office do a great job. And the thing I think that's good about that is that that office is not part of the athletic department. That office is over in the main building and it's not run by me. 
Q. Last year a number of university presidents stated their desire to become more involved in the athletic affairs of the NCAA. How do you feel about this, and do you feel this might be a viable solution to the problem? 
A. I think ifthe presidents let the coaches, the athletic direc­tors, and the faculty representatives know what it is that they want, and that they want integrity, they'll get it whe­ther they're involved or not. I think that the need for vic­tory is so great at like a state school. Take Nebraska and Oklahoma. Say Oklahoma beats Nebraska for 10 straight years. Boy, I tell you they really want to beat them, right? And it's really hard (not to cheat). There's pressure on the president (of the university), on the coach that he's not doing enough, that they're not spending enough money. Yo~ know, the pressures can come from the governor, it can come from the general assembly, it can comefrom the state senate, it can come from the board of trustees. "We're sick and tired oflosing." 
Q. Could you tell what you think might happen in college athletics in say the next five or 1 0 years ifwe allow things to stay the way they now are? 
A. You see, I don't think they've changed, if you remember what I said before. I don't think there's any more cheating now than there ever was. I think it might be a little more ridiculous. 
Q. Why would Walter Byers come out now and say that they can't even keep up with the cheaters? 
A. Again, I'm just saying that I think it's always been there. I think the reason they can't keep up with them is because it's been going on for so long and they haven't been able to really check it. There are a certain number of people that are going to do that. My feeling is that, by and large, we're headed for times when people want to do things right. I think that there's more ofa push to try to do things right than ever has been. They're tightening up entrance requirements for academics. All those things are positive things. You probably read what George Perles said about Mike White, that he should be fired. You never used to hear coaches say that about another coach in their league. People are concerned. They really are concerned 
Schools 

currently on NCAA probation 
FOOTBALL 
Arizona Clemson Illinois Kansas Southern Mississippi 
usc 
Wichita State Wisconsin 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Alaska-Anchorage Oklahoma City Oregon State San Diego State Wichita State 
about their profession. They should be. 
Q. Is that because it gives them, as coaches, a bad name? 
A. It gives everybody a bad name. Sure. If Mike White's a cheater, then why would you not think George Perles is a cheater. He's in the same conference. Doesn't that put a black mark on everybody? Digger got a lot ofcriticism for some of the things he said publicly a couple years ago, and I thought his timing was awful. It was after a bad year. It smacks ofa sore loser. But as I told him, don't use Notre Dame as your forum to go out and accuse everybody of everything because everybody thinks Notre Dame is too holy anyway. So that's not the way to do it. 
But take Bobby Knight, Digger, Dean Smith, Terry Hol­land, those kind ofguys that have real stature in coaching. They point back to a good record, a record of achieve­ment, a record of never ever being questioned on anyth­ing they've ever done. Those are the guys that are setting the tone, to me. Bo Schembechler. He's a great coach. Have you ever heard of him cheating? Have you ever heard ofJoe Paterno (cheating)? If you look at some of the great coaches, they're the ones that don't have any blemish around them at all. None at all. And that's a great thing. The guys that work for those guys are the guys that are going to be hired future-wise and go out and coach. It's who you get. 
Where do you go to get a good coach? You get him from a great staffthat doesn't cheat. I think we need to be vigilant, and I think when we hear things, we need to challenge them. We can't just sit back and say things are going to be better. But if I hear something about some­body that we play, I'll tell you, I'm going to call the coach. Our coach is going to call their coach, and I'm going to call their athletic director. We're going to find out what is going on. 
Q. How do you feel' about them having all these violations but then winning the national championship? Isn't that like robbing a bank and keeping the money? 
A. It's sorry. That's kind ofsorry. That's why they do it. They do it so they can win, don't they? And then when they do, it makes it more difficult for everybody. There are young people around who look at it and say, "Hey, that's the way to do it." Not very many, though. 
Q. Put yourself in the shoes of Walter Byers now. What would you do now? Would you go for the stipend, or what? 
A. Well, it's not Walter Byers' choice. Walter Byers works for the members of the NCAA, so it really falls back to us as to what we do that makes the most sense to cut out the cheating. Two things I think have to happen. One, they've got to give a stipend -or let them sell their tickets. Whatever. I don't care. Some way. Find out some way to handle it so that those kids that go to summer school can get some money. And the other one is to put stronger, tougher punishments in. I think people understand that. 
Q. Do think that if they stung a few people bad enough, things would get a whole lot better? 
A. Isn't it in the Middle East where if you steal something, they cut your hand off? Would you steal? Would you steal, though, if somebody was only going to hit you on the back of the hand with a ruler? You might. I guess it depends on how hungry you are. 
Q. Is taking scholarships away the thing to do? 
A. That's what I think would be the major thing to do. That's what devastates a program for a period oftime. 
r-------------....-----------------­
T0 day_____________________
Th_u_rs_d_a..y,_s_e_p_te_m_b_er_6_,_1_9_8_4__P._a..g._e_l_s 
---------------~ 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

fffrlNT/ON A~fJ IKX/5/?.MATW 

ANPNOW... I AM HOME NfJ.II ANP f't.AN 10 

M/JflJAL OF 
WATCH 1H! C/166 &11M€ 11/AT [ 
I Kll.i. W~N OMAHA 

K€C0Kfl!fl 'A5T NI&HT ON MY 
PtOPC£ r<fCOI?/J ff{f-5£1'/TSNeW VCfUNHICJI, fJY THe WAY, OVf-R. MY ,ftNGIJINS : 1 flJPE N08(){1Y 

PRObi?llM5. ANTAKCTICA '5 ume GLtJWN5 :'
0 
'


Tank McNamara ) eff Millar & Bill Hinds 
• 




The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 36 Eggs 63 Otherwise 1 Gaze rudely 37 Arthurian lady 64 Islands off 6 "-the valley 38 Was Inquisitive Galway 
of..." 40 -out (made 65 Ghostly 10 Widow of a do) knight 41 Long time 14 Law and-period 
66 Leading lady 15 Approach 42 Golf needs 67 Selling place 16 Verve 

68 Great lear 43 Church17 Reneges on a officials DOWNpromise 45 Very stubborn 1 Plants seed 19 Tough spot 48 Free from 2 Oak or maple 20 Homily: abbr. 

trouble 3 Heb. month 21 Invent 49 Requests 4 Legal point 22 Gluts 5 Certain muscle 23 Collar button 

50 Susa's land 24 Encourage 52 Portents 26 Aureole 55 Cupid 
28 Having keen 56 Young fellow 6 Secret 
vision 59 Promenade 7 Broadway sign 33 Journals 60 Put on the back 8 Gr. letter 35 Harvest burner 9 Leftover morsel 1 0 Discussion 11 Dismounted 12 Horse's hair 13 Calls It a day 18 Actor Gossett 
22 Leak slowly 23 Winter vehicle 24 Author James 25 Cutting edge 26 Asian capital 
27 Mimicking 29 Rebel 30 Connects 31 Each and­32 Fathers 33 Chick's sound 
34 Utter 39 Lipstick colors 40 Cheese 42 Hardy heroine 44 Discovered · 46 Yearn lor 

Campus 
•Lunch-Fast 
Sign-ups, North and South Dining Halls, Sponsored by N.D. World Hunger Coalition. 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Radiation Chemistry of Polymers," Dr. Rafil Bao;heer, Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory. 

•4 
p.m. -Meeting, Rhodes and Marshall Scholar­ship Informational Meeting, Seniors, Graduate Stu­dents, and Law School Students, Room I 21, O'Shaughnessy. 

•4 
p.m.-6:15p.m.-Awards Ceremony, Army ROTC Fall Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium. 

• 
5: I 0 p.m.-6 p.m. -Stetchercise Class, Tuesdays and Thursdays, ACC Gym 4, Above Gate 3, 525/semester, Sponsored by NVA Office. 

•7 
p.m.-10 p.m.-Placement Night, Marketing, Management, and Finance Majors, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

•7 
p.m.-General Meeting, Students Organized for Latin America (SOLA), C.S.C. Building, All Are Welcome. 

•7 
and 9:30p.m. and 12:00 -Film, "Blues Brot­hers," Engineering Auditorium, 

•7:45 
p.m.-Introductory Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Guest Speaker, l.ibrary Lounge, All Are Welcome. 


Far Side 
Gary Larson 
_, , 


Suddenly, Bobby felt very alone in lhe world. 

©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 9/6/84 
Why not make SENIOR BAR your meeting place for FUN EVERY night of the week? 
TOURS  FBI  
Sr. Class HOME OPENER  HAPPY HOUR 5:30 • 8 p.m.  
CLASS PARTY starts at 9 p.m.  s 1°0 Boilermakers NEW fresh jumbo burgers  
Party with us all night  
$1.00 IMPORTS  South Dining Hall serving breakfast 4:30-6 a.m.  

S.A.B. PRESENTS: 
~e BLUES 

BROTHERS 
THURS. SEPT. 6 7, 9:30 & 12 ENG. AUD. 
'1.50 


---------------~-~ 
Thursday, September 6, 1984 -page 16 
erdegen leads Irish past IUPU-Fort Wayne, 2-1 
ByANDY BARLOW Herdegen struck again at 55:10 of Notre Dame head c<..ach Dennis Sports Writer the game; this time offan assist from Grace. That is, IUPU's half -as the Stuart MacDonald. Once again, the ball seldom came near the Irish goal. 
Soccer is a sport usually associ­Irish goal came after a restart in front The Mastodons managed only 8 ated with warm weather and sunny of the IUPU goal. From the free kick, shots-on-goal in the game compared summer days, but it was on a night the ball rolled away from the goalie, to 13 for the Irish. !more suited for bobsledding or Nor­pursued by a thundering herd of A tribute to Notre Dame's fine dic ice fishing that the Fighting Irish Mastodons. In their zeal to reach the defense was an 18-0 advantage on soccer team began the 1984 cam­ball the Mastodons unwisely left corner kicks. Coach Grace took the paign with a 2-l victory over the their goal open. Seeing this, Mac­opportunity to substitute fre­Mastodons of Indiana/Purdue-Fort Donald, a 6-1 junior from Kettering, quently. Wayne last night. Temperatures ac­Ohio, lofted the ball over the charg­" The key to the game was that we tually hovered around the fifty­ing defenders to the waiting feet of could put in three or four people off degree mark as the Irish took the three Irish attackers, who had only of the bench and still maintain the field, but a stiff breeze came over the to decide who would get the goal. same level ofplay," Grace said after­fence to keep things less than balmy. Herdegen did the honors,and it was ward. 
Irish expectations were fairly high Notre Dame 2, Mastodons 0. An advantage of the substitutions going into the game, despite the ab­The lone Mastodon goal came was the reduction of wear and tear sence ofinjured senior captain Steve partly as a result ofa mental error on on individual players. Chang and the dubious status of the part of Irish goalkeeper Mark "I was very pleased that the game junior midfielder Chris Telk and Steranka, who was called for a hand was, for the most part, injury-free," sophomore forward Pat Szanto. ball . It seems Steranka violated a the Irish coach commented. 
The contest started as most new NCAA rule concerning goalie However, Rich Herdegen did season openers do with both teams ball handling. A penalty was as­leave the game in the second half doing a lot of inquisitive passing, sessed, and IUPU was given an indi­after a midfield collision, but is testing the opposing defense, rect penalty kick. The Mastodons set slated to start in Friday's game. looking for openings or weaknesses. up and executed a crisp start with a Senior forward Joe Howe found the crossing pass from Mike Diettrich to "I told the boys before the game first IUPU flaw as he picked up a rol­Juan Diaz, who drilled the ball into that we'd score two restart goals, ling ball in the right-hand corner fol­the left corner of the goal at 84:56 of and we did," Coach Grace said. His 
lowing a restart and lofted a the game. clairvoyance would not extend to a beautiful pass into a crowd in front This was a bit of deja vu for the prediction of an undefeated season, of the IUPU goal. Rich Herdegen. Irish as a goal by Diaz was the differ­but he was able to foresee a rigorous who tallied both Notre Dame goals, ence in IUPU's 1-0 victory in Notre practice for the Irish today in prepa­deftly headed the ball into the lower Dame's 1983 season opener. ration for tomorrow's clash with the 
right corner of the net after 23:24 The game at times resembled a Purdue Boilermakers under the minutes ofplay. half-field scrimmage, according to lights at Cartier field at 8 p.m. 
Irish soccer team shoots for an NCAA bid in 1984 season 
ByPHILWOLF which started on the way to a win­
ByPHILWOLF know that he is excited at the ••""'""""'"Sports Editor ning season with a win last night in Assistant Sports Editor prospect ofbuildingsuch a program. its home opener. Dennis Grace is the new head 
When new Irish soccer coach One ofthe key players in that vic­When Gerry Faust came to Notre coach ofthe Notre Dame varsity soc­Dennis Grace took the reigns ofRich tory was senior tri-captain Rich Her­Dame three years ago, every eye in cer team, which opened its season Hunter's soccer team last month, he degen, who slammed home both of the country was upon him. Every­last night with a 2-1 victory over knew he would have a lot ofwork to the Irish goals in the game. Notre one wanted to see if he could con­IUPU-Fort Wayne. do if he were to have a successful Dame will be relying heavily on this tinue the Notre Dame tradition of The 31-year-old Grace came to season. forward from Somerset, England to great football, and Faust let every­Notre Dame with the same type of 
Eleven lettermen from last year's provide much of the scoring for the one know that he was excite4 at the enthusiasm that Faust displayed 18-4 squad did not return this fall, team this year. prospect of taking over one of the three years ago on his arrival. and only four of this season's players Last season, this 5-11, 170-pound best football programs in the nation. "How do I feel about being here?" 
are seniors. In addition, injuries center forward led the team in When Dennis Grace came to Grace offers. "I love it. I pinch plagued the team in preseason scoring with 42 points, and he Notre Dame last May, very few eyes every morning. I've got to ask practice, and several players are out earned himself the second spot on were upon him. Hardly anyone was myself, 'are you kidding me?' I go to 
the season or playing well below the all-time leading Notre Dame aware that he was to be an integral bed with a Notre Dame T-shirt on so healthy potential. scorers list with 103 career points. part ofa program that is trying to es­I can wake up and look at it and say, Nevertheless, Grace took on the tablish itself as one of the best in the 1._,,.....,._.,,~,. ofputting together a team, see PREVIEW, page 13 country, but Grace will let anyone see GRACE, page 10 

Corrigan has different view on NCAA violators 
Today, in the final installment of The Observer's three­part series on recruiting violations, Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan fields questions from Observerassis-· tant sports editor jeffBlumb. Corrigan, a well-respected ad­ministrator within the college ranks, offers an off-the-field perspective on the problem. 
Q. Did the statements of NCAA Executive Director Walter Byers last week about the number ofrecruiting violations presently going on surprise you at all? 
A. No. Not at all. 
Q. Is it true in your estimation that there is a growing accep­tance among collegiate coaches that you must go around the rules in order to be successful? 
A. I don't think it's any different than it's ever been. I think people are maybe a little more sophisticated in what they do, but we've always had the problems. Maybe some of the things they do are more outrageous, but people have always done things. Those that want to do short cuts, do short cuts. Ithappens in business. Ithappens everywhere. It's going to happen in athletics with a certain percentage. It's not everybody. 
Q. Do you have any idea what that percentage might be? 
A. I think Walter was about right. I think30%is a pretty good estimate. Some other people think it would be higher than that, but I think that's about right. 
Q. How much nickel and dime stuff is there? 
A. Well nickel and dime stuff I wouldn't consider part ofthe 
30%. There are things that people overlook. There are so many rules and ifyour coaches don't walk in fear ofbreak­ing a rule, then you're going to have a lot of little things that are going to be incidental. Here they walk in fear. They know that something like that here wouldn't work. They wouldn't last at all. They'd be gone early. 
Q. What do you think the underlying cause of the problem 

is? Does it have anything to do with the increasing amount of money? 
A. Desire for victory. Winning. It's simply winning. As long as they keep score. 
Q. Are they raising the money up too high, maybe? 
A. I don't think so. I don't think the money has that much to do with it, to be honest with you. It might. Maybe I'm naive but I think it's just the whole idea of prominence and winning. The money and the bowls are nice, but there are a lot ofschools that win, like Virginia Tech who was 9-2 and they don't even get to go to a bowl, so the bowl's not necessarily the reward that's there. The bas­ketbalL People say they cheat to get into the tournament. People that are going to cheat are going to cheat whether the tournament was there or whether the bowl was there. That's the way they are. 

Q. How do you feel about the proposal to give the athletes a stipend as part oftheir scholarship? 
A. It would be fine. That would be fine. Years ago they had room, board, tuition, books, and $15 a month, but they stopped that I 0 years ago or more. 
Q. Digger seems to think that this might cut out some ofthe nickel-dime stuff. 
A. It could cut out some ofthe dumb, silly things that people do. But a couple things that have happened in the last little while, to me, have really helped. One, is the Pell Grant; you know, allowing those that qualify for total need, who have nothing other than a grant-in-aid, to get a grant. You give them a grant-in-aid and they don't have anything each month coming in, and their parents don't have any money, and they go to summer school, so they can't really earn any money, you're inviting disaster. 
So now, those people can get that S900 a year over and above, which is like an academic grant would be at Har­vard, Yale, or someplace like that. That was helpful be­cause that meant that there's no reason a kid can't make it with that. It may not be ideal to have only S I 00 a month to spend but it isn't bad. It's better than nothing. 
Q. That was the figure ( S I 00) that Digger said he thought it should be. Does that sound about right to you? 
A. Well, I don't think they even need to go that high for just everybody. But I think for those that have the need, they need to be at least that high. 
Q. You don't think it should be the same across the board then? 
A. Well, it can be. You can have a figure. Fifty dollars a month would be a whole lot better than nothing. 
see CORRIGAN, page 14 



