.r------------------~--------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Foreign programs -page 3 
the imkpt:ndt:nt ~tulknt ncw~paper serving notn: dame and saint mary's MONDAY, SEPTEMBER I 0, I984 
... 

Sharon's appointment sparks rebellion against government 



pointment in a bipartisan Cabinet, 18 months after the hawkish Likud leader was ousted from the Defense Ministry, is sparking a leftist rebel­lion against a Labor-led government. 
Critics said yesterday that by giving in to Likud's demand that Sharon be appointed commerce and industry minister, Labor leader and. Prime Minister-designate Shimon Peres was committing "political suicide." 
"Labor is spitting in the face of people who gave it their votes be­cause they wanted to keep Sharon out of the government," said Ron Cohen, a member of Parliament 


Here come the Irish 

dedtcatton ofthe Rooster Dome Saturday. The 60,672 More than I00 buses filled wtth Notre Dame and fans saw the favored Irish lose to the Boilermakers of Satt~t Mary's students traveled to lndtanapolts for the Purdue 21-23. . 
1beObserver/Paul Kramer 


Engineering changing format 
Associated Press from the left-leaning Citizens' Rights TEL AVIV, Israel -ArielSharon's ap-Movement. 
ByJOHN-JOHN AMORES 
Neu>sStaff 
The electrical engineering depart­ment has changed the format of some ofits larger classes to deal with the growing number ofstudents. 
Newly appointed Chairman, Dr. Anthony Michel has changed the for­mat in three of the 200-levd and six of the ~00-lcvel course!> to indudc recitations, smaller -sub-groups similar to the tutorials used in the math department. 
Instead of having three hours of lectures a week as in the past, this new format break.' up the three· ucdit cour~tcs into two hours of lccurc and one hour of recitations per week. 
The larger classes, which range in size from 90 to I•;u students, will be broken up into these recitations.The recitations will consist of about thirty students apiece. In these ~o:roup~t, the students will be able to ask questions and receive assistanl·c on problems. These recitations arc taught by graduate student teachers, who arc required to sit in on the lecture classes. 
In addition to the regular dasscs, the labs are also being taught with rccilations. In order to accomodate thl· students the labs arc also being kept open longer. 
The instilution of recitations was an idea of Michel's because he had worked with that type of format before, and felt it would be the best way to deal with the large number of students. 
In 1981, the electrical engineer· ing department graduated 46 stu· dents, but by last year, that number had grown to I 16. With the increase in student numbers, Michel said the elcctrit:al engineering department had become the "most heavily loaded department in the univer­sity." The smaller groups, Michel hopes, will allow the student to receive more personalized instruc­tion. 
However, because this is a new program for the department, a few bugs still have to be worked out. Since the recitation plan was not in· stitutcd until after the schedules had been made, some of the groups have had to meet at irregularly scheduled times. Michel said that next semes­ter, the recitations would be integra­ted into the student's schedule. Mkhel also added that although it would take awhile for both the stu­dents and the professors to adjust to the revised format, he did not ex­pect any real problems. 
In addition to the recitations, Mic­hel said that he also plans to hire more professors, but he added that it is difficult to find qualified person­nel. There are 18 positions in the Electrical Engineering department and presently l 5 of those are filled. 
Michel plans to fill the remaining slots by next year. 
Michel said that he hopes to ex­pand the department to twenty-five positions, and to have them filled within the next 2 1/2 years. He said he is authorized to look for three more instructors, preferably in the computer and solid state area. The emphasis will be made on searching for younger people, but full profes­sorial applicants will also be consid­ered. 
Of his future plans, Michel is confident that he will rccieve the support of the administration. He said, "I am optimistic and I know that the administration understands our nceds...otherwise I would not have come here." 
With more instructors, Michel said that there could be a greater va­riety of courses and the number of recitations might be reduced. He also added that required classes would always have the highest en· rollment and in most cases, recita· tions arc the best way to deal with the large number of students in those classes. Michel said that with the larger classes, the more capable students would not be affected, but rather, it is the weaker students that could suffer. He hopes that with the smaller classes all students will benefit from the increased attention. 

"I will make every effort to orga­nize a movement to fight against the government which puts Ariel Sharon in such a central position," Cohen told The Associated Press. 
Sh~ron's position in a new govern­ment expected to be installed this week will give him a powerful voice on economic affairs, the nation's top priority issue. Israeli inflation is headed toward 400 percent this year, and its mounting debts are creating problems in obtaining foreign credit. 
Sharon, architect of Israel's 1982 Lebanon invasion, spent most of his adult life in the army. He owns a large farm in southern Israel, but has no business experience. 
He remained on the fringes of power after his forced resignation in March 1983, when an investigating panel found him negligent in failing to prevent the September 1982 mas­sacre of hundreds of Palestinian refugees near Beirut. Sharon called the panel's findings 
unjust  and  fought  to  restore  his  
power.  
The  56-year-old  Sharon's  com­ 

eback began last April when, as a minister without portfolio, he chal­lenged outgoing Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir for the party leader­ship and won an astonishing 40 per­cent of the vote from his Ukud colleagues. 
Sharon's supporters have ap­plauded the Shamir-Peres decision. 
Judicial Council holds first 1984-85 meeting 
By EVAN FARLEY 
News Staff 
The new alcohol policy, "confu­sion over student rights and the LaFortune renovations were among items discussed at the Judicial Council's first meeting of the year, held last Thursday in Hayes-Healy Center. 
This year, due to the new changes in the campus alcohol policy, Judi­cial Coordinator Joe Zahn expects his council to be assaulted with a wide variety of new cases and fur­thermore anticipates student confu­sion as to their rights. In an effort to clarify the situation, the council plans to publish a "Student Rights Manual" and a "Notre Dame Tenants Handbook" for off-campus students. It is also planned to have allJ-Boards publish and distribute clarification sheets of "Du Lac's" hall rules and regulations. 
The council, composed of the heads ofeach hall's Judicial Board, is a court for further student appeal in University offense cases 
A major point brought up during the proceedings was the hope of wresting away the counting of the votes during student government elections from Ombudsman (the student information council). Zahn said that Ombudsman,"ycar after year, has continually made tnistakes." Ifthe motion passes in the next student council meeting, these duties would be added on to the council's responsibility of running the ballot boxes in the halls. 

Zahn also put in front of the coun­cil a student government proposal concerning the renovation of the LaFortune Student Center. He urged the council to take an active part alongside Student Government in the formation ofan alternative plan. 
The plan calls for the construction ofa new student center on the pres­ent site of the Library Mall. '!be building would house student offices, dance floors, and a sit down restaurant with table service, while LaFortune would be turned into a study hall and a site for the meeting of many campus organizations. lbc 
see COUNCIL, page 4 


Adopt-a-Transfer 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
News Staff 

A new program designed to help transfer students become familiar with their new school is being introduced this year by stu· dent government officials and the hall presidents. 
The Adopt-a· Transfer program "arose out ofsheer necessity," ac­cording to Student Body Vice-president Cathy David. 
"'lbe transfers were disappointed with the welcoming proccs:i." David said. "We've always had a transfer orientation but this year we made a greater effort to introduce our transfers to actual student life. We want them to be with people their own ages to make the transi­tion to Notre Dame much smoother," she added. 
Each dorm will receive the names of 8-10 transfers. The dorm presidents will then select a like number ofoutgoingdorm residents to show the new students around campus, take them to dances, and introduce them to campus life. 
"The problem in the past has been the stereotyping of transfers as second-class citizens or outsiders," David said."Wc're trying to remove those labels." 
David said that student response is very favorable. She added that both the current students and the transfers say they are pleased with the program, which she believes will prove to be very helpful for the more than 300 tranfers to Notre Dame each year. 
The Observer 



In Brief 
The FallArmy ROTC PD&E Lab was held Thursday, Sept. 7 in the Library Auditorium. This ceremony recognized cadet accomplishments this past summer at Advanced Camp, Airborne, and Air Assault training. Forty-four seniors completed Advanced Camp training at Fort Riley, Kan. Completion of this training is re­quired for commissioning. Twenty-seven ofthe forty-four graduates received the coveted "Recondo" award which rewards high perfor­mance in physical fitness and land navigation and completion of rapelling and "confidence building" exercises. This is the largest number of Notre Dame Recondo winners ever and overall camp performance was one ofNotre Dame's best ever. Notable individual awards were the platoon leadership award given toJohn P. Murphy and military proficiency awards given to Louis A. Chiarella, Kirk M. Kimler, and Edward). Sheeran.-The Obseroer 
The Reagan -Bush'84 campaignhas desig­
nated September "National College Voter Registration Month." Youth for Reagan-Bush '84 will spearhead activities on campuses nationwide. The goal is to register 250,000 students who will sup­port President Reagan and Vice President Bush with their votes in November. Reagan -Bush campaign officialscite recent surveys that approximately 57 percent of 18 to 24 year olds support the re­election of the President. Reagan now enjoys his greatest support from this age group. According to Liz Pickens, Executive Director of Youth for Reagan -Bush '84, young volunteers who will be working on their campuses are part of a national network of about 100,000 Reagan -Bush volunteers. -The Obseroer 
Warnings on cigarette labels will have to be strengthened by specifying the health hazards that smoking can cause ifa bill the House is. considering passes. A similar bill is being held up in the Senate by opponentsled bySen. Jesse Helms, R -N.C. ­
AP 
An airplane StOWaway who sneaked into Sydney, Australia and claimed he was a 14-year-old American orphan was identified as Steven Strobde, 17, from British Columbia, Canada, yes­terday by U.S. authorities. Strobde hid aboard a Quantas flight from Hawaii to Australia two weeks ago even though he did not have a ticket ora passport. He talked his way through security at the Sydney airport and spent the day at a surfing beach. He was caught when he returned to the airport aiming to hide aboard a flight to Greece. Strobde said he went to Sydney to visit the famous surfing beach in the suburb ofBondi. He spent the day at the beach and then hailed a taxi back to the airport, where he was caught by authorities. -AP 
Democrat gubernatorial candidate sen. 
Wayne Townsend portrayed GOP Gov. Robert D. Orr as a weak leader who lied about the need for a tax increase and Orr chided Townsend for being a sideline critic with no programs ofhis own In the campaign's first and only debate yesterday. The candidates fielded questions on a wide range ofissues from a panel ofreporters in the hour-long debate broadcast statewide and sponsored by the Indiana League of Women Voters. Neither candidate claimed vic­tory. Orr said the viewers "saw my opponent at his worst, he has no programs, no positive comments about anything." Townsend said he felt good about the debate and said the voters were the winners because they had an opportunity to see the two candidates and make up their own minds. -AP 

Weather 
Mostly cloudy today with a chance of rain and thunderstorms. Lows in the low 60s and highs in the mid 70s. Unfortun· ately, the weather isn't expected to change 


through Friday. 
The_Observer-
The Observer ( l"SPS ~9'.1 l-4000) is puttli,hed Monday through Friday and on homt:' football Saturdays, t·xct·pt 
during t:'xam and vacation pc:riod~. The 
Observer is published by th<· students of thc: l :nivc:rsity of Notrt· Daml' and Saint Mary'!'. Collegt·. Sub~cription~ may he pun·hased for 52~ per year ( s l ~ per semester) hy writing The Observer, 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46~~6 
The Observer is a member ofThe As­sociated Press. All reproduction right> art' n:sc:rvt:d. 
Today's L-.ue was produced by: 
Design Editor ................................Troy Illig Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck 
Tracy Bringardner News Edltor............................)ohn Mennell Copy Editor............................... Mark Pouer Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Viewpoint Layout.................... Dave Grote ND Day Editor................... Kathleen Doyle SMC Day Editor...............•........)ody Radler Photographer...•................... Lev Chapelsky Typist................................ Bill Highducheck 

---~ ------~--~~~~~-------------------­
Monday, September 10, 1984 -page 2 


Has Notre Dame lost sight 
of its Catholic identity? 
It is the first week of school. Students gather in the Library Auditorium for their theology course on "Catholicism." The professor, Father Richard McBrien, 
Mary Healy 

begins by asking some questions of basic Catholic 
Features Editor 

knowledge. "What is purgatory?" "Who was pope when Vatican II came out with its directives?" "Which came first, Augustine or the Council of Trent?" McBrien is Inside Monday testing his students, and the results are, as usual, a 
surprising ignorance oftheir religion among students of whom a majority are Catholic. 
Notre Dame is going through a crisis. In the last half century, it has grown from an average Midwestern school to academically one of the nation's great institu­tions. There is just one problem. 
In the drive for academic excellence, has Notre Dame lost sight of its Catholic identity? Has it been trying too hard to be a great university rather than a great Catholic university? 
The root ofthe problem is that no one seems to know just what it means to be Catholic. Is Notre Dame Catholic because it is run by Holy Cross priests? Because 
t 

when that happens, Notre Dame should be prepared to answer a central question: Which is more important, its Catholicism or its academic superiority? 
As it is now, the question is muddled. Administration officials insist religion is not a criteria in hiring and ten­ure decisions. Yet last spring, a Protestant professor of theology left because he felt uncomfortable with the department's Catholic character. And recently a former assistant professor of English sued Notre Dame for, among other things, religious discrimination. Students 
complain that professors 
teach theological opinion as 
ifit were Church doctrine. 
But the question can't be 
60 percent of the students are Catholic (at least nominally)? Obviously there must be something more than labels or affilia· tions. 
On the other hand, is it be­cause the students protest nuclear armament and abor­tion? Because they fight for human rights and join social projects? Because Notre Dame graduates are humane, ethically sensitive people who are able to bring ignored. The faculty is one of the most important fac­tors in forming the identity of an institution. And in recent years, the trend in Notre Dame's faculty has been toward increasing secularization. Few teachers ever talk about Christianity with enthusiasm or respect. 

There are signs that the trend is changing. Father McBrien, chairman of the theology department since 1980, is trying to enhance its 

questions of social justice and ethics to bear in their occupations? These criteria, although very important, are similar to the conventional values ofsome oftoday's secular ideologies. 
Should not Notre Dame have also a unique and spe­cific identity as a Christian institution? Shouldn't it nurture in its students alove for and commitment to the Christian faith? 
That is certainly not to say that all the students, or for that matter, the faculty, should be Catholic or Christian. But there should be some direction to the dialogue, some solid Christian base underlying an education at Notre Dame. 
Some will be quick to point out that that causes prob­lems. How can Notre Dame fulfill its responsibility as a university to allow free inquiry and the exchange of ideas ifit is committed to one doctrine, i.e. Catholicism? How can it keep growing as a great institution if it is at all restricted in its choice offaculty? 
Undeni.ably there are conflicts in some cases. But 
~ 

.................................................. 
I 
r.·____ Roc.co's Hair . ~ 
S 


i 
Styling ~ 
~ 
~ 

531 N. Michigan St., ~ 
s 

~ Phone 233-4957 111; S8 
...................................................~ 




ropp~ 
NEED AN IDEA FOR A FUND RAISER?? 
I have a great item for the Fall/Winter seasons. Very useful, and a terrific 
self-seller. High Commission Wages. Call Deal Enterprises 
234-3459 

(Please don't hesitate to leave a message with my answering machine.) 
Thank-You, Mr. D. Logan 
§~ 
8 
~ 
§ 
~
8
8 
~ 
I ~ 
Catholic character. Provi­
sions for preferring Catholic faculty over non-Catholic are being considered. 
But Notre Dame students still lack a basic knowledge of their faith, according to many professors. Although doctrinal knowledge is certainly not the most impor­tant part of being Christian, how can graduates be ex­pected to live committed lives without a firm foundation ofcontent? How can the University help stu­dents form a critical faith if they have no common ground on which to begin? 
In spite of this, Notre Dame students are noted for being religious. They are eager to understand their faith better-a high percentage (roughly 85 percent) go to Mass, and one third of all undergraduates take at least one theology course beyond the required two. Most students take religion seriously. 
The question is, is Notre Dame up to the challenge? 

~ , by September 14. 12:00 noon N
SL ~Mkify J
C.ll Universily M;nistry at M\1\~CPY .239-5.242 

~e»o=oo~..r~JOOC 


g hi 
(}(V1 I ~
mwt mLttarrt@€ 1 
~ 
Mrs. Christie Turner. A.C.S.W. ~ 
Marriage and Famil~ Therapist § 
~ I 
'? • , ~i, ~~~:it~o~l:t;.;' ~"~~session ~ 
1 

I \..1" .-::...'. Enrichment Program s~ ~~~~ R
1•/~-x;· ~ 
Open to Faculty and Staff § § 
Center for Social Concerns ~ September 17 ~ 24 ~ 
7:30 · 9:30 p.m. ~ 
§
Lt'tlrll ht'UI Cl' ,,,,,~ltll:t' tllltitlpprt'l"ttltt' ,,,,,, lllt1tttll111ul ~ 
Ultl~l; ''l•ll'l'''"'<l.:hill~l ltk Flllti new lLitl!fS o( rc;pontiut1J ~ 
r,·;p,'l"tftdltr •ltlt1 k'ttllltJhr k' ~,,,,, ;1"-'u;c ~ 
I§ 
RSVP 

The Observer 

,, 
Thr Obscrv~r /Sh~Ua Burk~

The school year has begun 
The official beginning of the school year for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's was markedyesterday by Masses at both schools. Notre Dame's Mass was held at Sacred Heart Church and Saint Mary's was celebrated at the Church ofLoretto (above). 
r.r...o--.r.r....ccocr.r....::>""...ooc:>'"~~...o"'~....oco--1 
SENIORSII  I  
Informal Registration  
~ g ~  has been extended!! SignVp Monday, Sept. 10 and Tuesday, Sept. 11  §I  
§ NO: Lafortune Lobby 12:30 • 2, 6-8 p.m. : LeMan• HaD 4-8 p.m.  §§  
Cubs and Bears tlx at ND onlyf  ~  
[  § 

=--~.r.r.r.r...o--.r...o--~~.r.r...oo'".r.r.r....cc:J 


Are you ARMED? 

With a keen insight and a talent for cartooning? 
If so, Viewpoint is looking for Editorial Cartoonists • 
If you are interested, call Dave Grote at : 
239-5323 


oint 


Monday, September 10, 1984 -page 3 

Foreign programs offer alternative 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
StaffReporter 
Every year a select group ofNotre Dame students are allowed to enrich their academic lives by studying and living abroad for a year in one offour foreign study programs sponsored by the University. 
According to Art Grubert, assis­tant to the director offoreign study, the programs offered in France, Austria, Japan, and Mexico allow stu­dents "a broad experience". 
Beginning in 1966 with the French program, foreign studies at Notre Dame have been continually growing. lbey not only allow stu­dents to experience and live in a dif­ferent culture, but also "suit academic needs and career develop­ment". 
The initial program was estab­lished in Angers, France. Angers, a city of about I 50,000 people, is lo­cated two and a halfhours from Paris and an hour from the Atlantic. 
Students in Angers are instructed in French by professors from the Universite' Catholique de I'Ouest. Business Administration students accepted into the program are given an opportunity to take an examina­tion for a Paris Chamber of Com­merce certificate at the end of the year. 
In 1967, the Austrian program was offered for the first time. Lo­cated in Innsbruck, a city of about 120,000 surrounded by the Alpine Mountains, the program utilizes the facilities of the University of In­nsbruck established by the Jesuits in 1669. 
"A new cut to the Innsbruck pro­gram is the way in which the Ameri­can students are studying with Austrian students which is quite a plunge," said Grubert. 
As in the Angers program, stu­dents live with families around the university in order to fully partake in all of the customs of the respective country. 
Added to the list in 1968 was a chance to study in Tokyo. Studying at Sophia University, students join 8,000 Japanese students in down­town Tokyo. Although fluency in Japanese is not required, students are encouraged to take introductory courses in the language. While in Japan, the language and customs are continually referred to in the classes so as to aquaint the students with the culture. 
"If a student was going into busi­ness, he or she would probably benefit a lot from that experience (inJapan)," said Grubert. 
The fourth program to be added in the fourth year of the foreign study program was that in Mexico City, Mexico. Added in 1970, the program offers courses at the Uni­versidad Iberoamericana. 
In Mexico, the student lives alone or with a roommate with a selected Mexican family. Courses in Mexico are taught in Spanish which makes 

FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND WINNERS!II 
Please pick up your information packets at the Student Activities Office by Sept. 14. All unclaimed packets will be awarded to groups on the waiting list! 

NICK &KENNY'S 
* * SPECIALS* * 
MONDAY ............. PITCHERS $2.95 TUESDAY.......... LITTLE KINGS 2/$1.00 WEDNESDAY ........... IMPORTS $1.00 THURSDAY .................. 25e BEER FRIDAY &SATURDAY ........... BANDS 
AND ASSORTED SPECIALS 

THIS OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA &. PUB 
This Monday and 
Wednesday we will 
deliver a Medium 16" 
pizza with 1 topping for 


NEW HOURS  
4-12 p.m. Mon-Sat  Each additional item is  
4-10 p.m. Sun  $100  
Now Open For Lauch  
at lla.m.ll  277-4519  

CALL BEFORE 11:30 p.m. FOR DEUVERY EXPIRES 9/12/84 
one of the requirements for accep­tance fluency in Spanish. 
"Students in Mexico are keyed into understanding the developing world," said Grubert. "I think they'll find a good source of information in Mexico...( especially about) third world economics." 
The cost for each of the programs, including round-trip air travel, tui­
tion,  room,  board,  laundry,  and  
scheduled field trips is equal  to a  
year's stay at Notre Dame.  

All classes are accredited by Notre Dame and arc added to one's grades on campus. 
In each country, the program lasts for an entire year with semesters running from October to February and from March to June except for the program in Mexico. In Mexico City, there is a full-year or a one­semester program with semesters running similar to those at Notre Dame. 
"Students stay there for the entire year," explained Grubert, "and sometimes parents go over and visit over the holidays." 
According to Grubcrt, acceptance into the program is offered to stu­dents with at least a 2.5 GPA. The French and Spanish programs add the requirement of fluency in their respective languages while German andJapanese are encouraged for the Austrian and Japanese programs, respectively. 
Keep School Fro• Getting Boring 
l'ut some excitement In your life. Visit Skyports Unlimited, Inc and learn to fly in just one hour. Be­come a Paraplane Pilot, exper­ience the safety of a parachute and the freedom of flight of an Ultra­light. 
20 •lnatea from campaa 
SKYSPORTS UNLIMITED, lac. 
Route I Tvle~r Road 
Walkerton. IN 
219-586-5510 .,..•••••• 
219-586-:1665 Ho•• 
MEN 
of 
NOTRE DAME 1985 CALENDAR 
IS HERE AGAIN 
WE NEED YOU! 
Please submit pictures ofyourfavorite males to319or007 FARLEY Sept.l0-14 


TYPING 
*Term Papers •Resumes 
Letters *Manuscripts *Word Processing 
CaD Chris At: 

234-8997 



Monday, September 10, 1984 -page 4 

John Paul II kicks off 12-day Canadian tour in Quebec 
Associated Press statement after arnvmg here at 
11:23 a.m. EDT aboard his green­
QUEBEC -PopeJohn Paul II came and-white Alitalia DC-10 jetliner. to Canada yesterday for one of his Welcoming the pope, Governor longest foreign pilgrimages, kissing General Jeanne Sauve said the ground where missionaries and Canadians "receive you as a prophet, martyrs founded a sturdy New for ... you have been successful in World church four centuries ago. identifying the causes of our univer­
"I greet you, Quebec, first church sal anxiety." in North America, first witness to the But during his 12-day visit the faith," the pontiff said in an airport Polish-born pontiff will find that the 
Canada once shaped by French explorer-priests today is a secular, pluralistic society, many of whose

Council 

Roman Catholics reject the pope's traditional positions on birth con­continuedfrom page I trol, divorce and other family issues. 
cost ofthis project is estimated to be In French-speaking and largelythe same as the LaFortune renova­Roman Catholic Quebec province,tion, which is pegged at four million fewer than one-third of church 

dollars. In a vote the council members practice their religion,decided not to participate in the church officials say.

planning process (contrary to the 

The messages Pope John Paul II is 
wishes ofZahn), and instead place it 

expected to deliver on family life,
solely on the shoulders of the Stu­

sexual conduct and church author­dent Council. 
ity may be directed as well across Zahn further proposed a "Grand 
the border to U.S. Roman Catholics, Tea Party" between the Judicial 
many of whom are increasingly dis­Council and the hall rectors. Point­
affected by what they see as rigid ing out inconsistencies on interpre­
church doctrine. tation of the alcohol policy by 

As he crisscrosses Canada, John certain rectors, the council wants to 
Paul will visit 13 cities, cover 8,500 iron out the problems and arrive at 
miles and pass through all six time ,... an understanding between students zones ofthis vast nation. It is the first
, 
and rectors. visit by a pope to Canada, although 
r 
r r 
B A H A M A 5
r 
Oct. Break Trip-All Students Welcome SUN • Nassau -BEACH • Nassau -FUN 

r 
~ 
Final week to sign up with $489 payment at Lafortune 
r 
Monday, Sept.10, 7-8 p.m. Thursday, Sept.13, 7-8 p.m. 

Laurie-4039 Jim -1887 Mark-1883 
Join the 

PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
1st General Meeting MONDAY,SEPfEMBER 10 
7:00 Engineering Auditorium 

*********************************** 
~ *A1TENTION SENIORS* t 
•~ ND-SMC Senior Trip Final Payments •~ • for those who paid their deposits • • and ••• those who still wish to get one ofthe •~ f few limited seats left ~ ~ are due!! ~ 
~ ~ 
~ MONDAY: Seniors abroad last spring ~ : TUESDAY: Seniors who are transfers : : WEDNESDAY-FRIDAY: : 
: All Seniors : 
~ ~
. 
: ~ COLLECTION TIMES: : : SMC: 4:30 • 6:30 Dining HaD ~ : (Lemans side) M-F ~ : NO: 11:15-1 and 5-7 ~ ~ Lafortune M-F ~ 
. ~ : AMOUNTS DUE: ~ ~ ~ Paid Deposits: $19000 ~ : wI o Deposits: $29000 : 
.• •
: ~ ~ 
il ALL PAYMENTS ARE DUE BY SEPTEMBER 14th il il OR SEATS WILL BE LOST ~
.• • 
*********************************** ~ 
John Paul has been here before, Turner, Canadian bishops and 600 welcoming Quebecers waited to 
coming in 1969 as a Polish arch­other dignitaries. greet the pope as his motorcade 
bishop. Seven children representing rode to a park at the St. Lawrence 
The white-clad, 64-year-old pon­Canada's ethnic groups presented River waterfront to meet with newly tiffarrived on a brilliant, autumn-like flowers as a 21-gun howitzer salute confirmed children. morning at Quebec's city airport. boomed. His schedule also included a visit 
Switching between French and to the tomb ofFrancois de Laval, the 
ln the gesture that has become a English, Canada's two languages, in 17th century Quebec archbishop re­papal hallmark, he knelt at the bot­his arrival statement, the pope said garded a5 the father ofRoman Catho­tom of the airplane steps and kissed he would like to speak to Canadians lic Canada, and a Mass at Laval the ground. "about the issues of our times, con­University. 
Besides Mrs. Sauve, Queen cerning culture, the community, For months, the impending papal Elizabeth II's representative in this technology, the family, sharing and visit, 23rd foreign trip by John Paul, former British colony, he was justice." had stirred excitement and anticipa­welcomed by Prime Minister John Beyond the airport, throngs of tion across Canada. 





Father Leo R. Ward, 91, dies 
Special to The Observer Washington, D.C., he was ordained sometimes caught them off guard. 
onJune 24, 1927. Ward studied philosophy at Cath­
Father Leo R. Ward, 91, died Satur­Ward wrote extensively; his last olic University and received his doc­
day morning at St. Joseph's Medical work-a volume ofpoems -was pub­torate in 1929. He also did 
Center after an extended illness. lished two years ago. Last May, the post-doctoral study at Oxford Uni­
Since 1976, Ward lived in Holy philosophy department held a sym­versity and Louvain. Cross House at Notre Dame. He posium at Holy Cross House in Services will be at 3:30 p.m. to­
joined the faculty of Notre Dame in honor of Ward's contributions to morrow in Sacred Heart Church 
1929 as a professor of philosophy. philosophy. where Father Theodore Hesburgh, 
Born on April 19, 1893 in Melrose, Last night, Father David Tyson, University president, will celebrate Iowa, Ward made his first profession vice president for student affairs, Mass. Burial will be in the Commu­of vows in the Congregation of Holy said Ward's active life was a "model" nity Cemetery. Cross in 1920. for members of the Holy Cross or­Friends may call from 3:30 p.m. 
He graduated from Notre Dame der. Tyson said he remembers how today at Moreau Seminary Chapel 
three years later, and after studying Ward befriended the young semi­where a wake service is scheduled at 
theology at Holy Cross College in narians even though his "dry wit" 7:30p.m 
Do you know someone who is dying lobe thin? 
Nearly one-third of the worlds population goes hungry because of poverty. And nearly 200/o of the young female population in the United States also starves-but by choice. Because they're dying to be thin. 
Anorexia Nervosa. Bulimia. Two serious eating disorders. Illnesses that can affect people of all ages... and are most common among young women. 
Symptoms-although not all victims display all of them-can include abnormal weight loss. Refusal to eat, except for tiny por­tions. Binging. Vomiting. Abuse of laxatives. Denial of hunger. Excessive exercise. Depression. Preoccupation with food. Absent or irregular menstruation. 
And the effects can be life-long or even fatal. 
Now there is HOPE -Healthy Options for Problem Eaters. A therapeutic program developed by Memorial Hospital of South Bend. HOPE is designed to help those with eating disorders return to a normal, healthy lifestyle, because Anorexia and Bulimia can be cured. But early detection is vital. 
If you know someone who is a victim of an eating disorder, you can help. Register by September 14 for HOPEs next 10-week session which begins September 18. Call 284-7308 for further information. Because HOPE can help. 




HOPE 
Healthy Options for Problem Eaters An affiliate of Memor1al Hosp1tal of South Br;nd m 

·--··­

~i~~~_()__J_._Il__t_________________
M_o_nd-ay_,s_ep-te-mb-er_l_O,_l9-84_-_pa-ge_s 
. ·--· 

A toast to the hosts 
The City of Indianapolis proved to thousands of Notre Dame fans that it knows how to play host to more than just a race. And much of the credit belongs to developer Robert Welch and the Notre Dame Club oflndianapolis. 

Welch, an alumnus, led the effort to bring the Irish to the Hoosier Dome, providing approximately S l 00,000 for buses to transport any student who wished to attend. Even with the early departure time , 5:30a.m. , students had no problems boarding the buses, and Cpl. Carlos Pettiford ofthe Indiana State Police said, "We didn't experience any problems whatsoever" with the caravan down U.S. 31. 
Those students who ventured to the capital city on Friday found more than just a pep rally. In Monument Circle, two bands kept the spirited crowd dan­cing in the streets until midnight. The Notre Dame Club's tent on the north side of the circle attracted hundreds of fans -from freshmen to alumni in technicolor slacks. Despite the relatively free flow of alcohol, Sgt. Harry Mil­ler of the Indianapolis Police Department said there were "no problems." 
While credit may he given to those who organized the weekend, those who participated deserve a fair share of praise, too. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were boisterous, hut not rowdy, in keeping the Hoosier Dome's fabric roof vibrating until the final gun on Saturday. 
The finest compliment comes from what did not occur: no reported injur­ies caused by mixing drinking and driving. 
Everyone involved in the weekend can point with pride to the successes of taking Irish spirit on the road. Few will forget the hospitality of the City of Indianapolis and what may turn out to be the best "home" celebration of the season. 
-The Observer 

Adopt the death penalty 
Everyone has got one of these stories: My complished by allowing the states the power uncle walked out of his store in Queens one to legislate a death penalty law? The only use I niW1t and noticed someone trying to steal his can see is to distinguish between guber­van. The man got the van started and was natorial candidates in the states which have beginning to drive away when my uncle not yet adopted the penalty. boldly jumped on the running board and tried But why is there such opposition to the to stop him. The robber was no fool and realiz· adoption of the death penalty? Well, there are ing that given enough time, my uncle might some obvious reasons. First and foremost is sun·eed through sheer force of will, the fact that someone's life is being taken. Ifa sideswiped another vehicle and knocked my judge is going to hand down this decision, he uncle from his perch, for thl· last time. Sure, must be totally sure that the defendant is this guy was capturl·d later, but he got offvery guilty. This seems to be the biggest gripe es· 
chewed by the many death penalty detractors. And with good reason. I can see no worsePaul Cimino crime than the purposeful killing of an inno­cent man while the truly guilty party remains free. But let's get serious here. This does not
on a pale horse 

happen everyday nor are many states likely to 
allow it to happen. There are many convicts ca.,ily. Mcanwhik, my uncle wa.o; dead, and on death row at this very moment who are nothing was going to bring him back. guilty in every sense of the law. 
O.K. Step hack for a moment and think Another fact which should be considered is about this. Put yourself in my shoes for awhile that if a death penalty is handed down, some­and examine your feelings. one has got to throw the switch. NQt a 
Now, I a.-;k you, did this man deserve to live? prospect many people would consider en­Absolutely not. But then again, this is New joyable. York. Bdl. this kind of thing happens all the So what can be done? To begin with, the time. New York courts arc very reluctant to death penalty should be adopted by all fifty hand out the death penalty to a criminal. And state legislatures or, if this is impossible, the why is that? Bcl·ausc the state legislature and federal government should step in, set down a the governor refuse to accept responsibility law, and force the states to stick by it. Next, for a criminal's life. each state should create an investigative com­
Wait one second. Lets examine this prob· mission with the sole purpose of deciding lcm. The state won't accept responsibility for whether or not evidence is sufficient to war­executing criminals who have taken the lives rant the death penalty. Following this, a new of others. That seems to be just a little method of execution might be developed ridiculous if you ask me. It's just another ca.~e which would put the actual act into the hands ofstate legislative bungling. ofa machine instead ofa prison guard. 
True, a person's right to live is the mo.st im· In any event, something should be done be­portant thing which they possess, however, cause a death penalty law would be a great when someone denies a fellow human being deterrent to crime. Current death penalty this right, they forfeit their own right. It is for laws are ineffective and serve no other pur­this reason that capital punishment should be pose than to give people something to argue adopted and strictly enforced (in air-tight about. ca.<;es) by all the states. Paul Cimino Is a sophomore In the College of 
At this time, sixteen states in the U.S.A. do Science at Notre Dame and a regular con­not have a death penalty. Why? What is ac-tributor to VIewpoint. 

Playing by the rules 
While most of us are disturbed about the result of the Purdue -Notre Dame game this weekend, I find myself more disturbed by the actions of a few prominent members of our administration during game-time. 

According to a quote in last Thursday's Observer, Fr. William Beauchamp stated that the administration "just felt in light of the fact that this is a college game, the sale of beer didn't seem to fit." In accordance with this ex­pressed wish of the administration, no beer was sold at the game -thus depriving the owners of the Hoosier Dome of thousands of dollars in revenues and depriving several thousand fans, alums and various other spec­tators from enjoying a few beers at a college football game. 
However, I wish not to argue either for or against these above mentioned actions or statements, enough had been said about alco­hol and about the implications of the new policy. Nor do I wish to make any sort ofstate· ment about whether or not alcohol should have been banned in the Hoosier Dome on Saturday. My only desire is to examine why 
Brian Casey guest column 
such actions were taken this weekend, and further to explore the implications of the ac­tions taken by members of the administration at the game. 
While in the Stadium, I was fortunate enough to have seats on or around the 50 yard line. Directly in back of my seat was a glass enclosed box usually reserved for team owners or hono(ed guests. On Saturday, oc­cupants ofthe box included Fathers Hesburgh and Joyce. During one of the slower points in the game I happened to glance back in this box. Since the glass was neither reflective nor translucent I was able to see quite clearly what was happening inside. At one point, I ob­served a male waiter carrying a can of "Bud Light" on a tray into the box, setting this can on a table inside and promptly leaving. 
I admit that at no point did I see anyone consume this alcohol, nor did I see, during any other time of the game, any more cans ofbeer or other drinks brought into the box. Nor do I know whether the beer was provided for someone who is directly or indirectly associ· ated with the University as opposed to some mere guest unconnected to the University. 
Clearly, however, this is not the issue. 
The administration requested that, in view of the fact that this was a college game, no beer or other alcohol be served at the game. The University's request was honored. By im· plication then, no one wa.o; able to purcha.o;e any alcohol at the game. Included in this ban were not only underage students but all people, regardless of age. This necessarily in· volved any alumnus of either university, any Indianapolis resident who attended simply to see the opening of the stadium, or any mere sport fan. 
Once again, though, a word ofcaution. I am not judging. The ban was placed on the stadium. Many were affected. Whether this was right or wrong is of minimal importance. However, I am asking for consistency. The rules were put in place; the minimum I ask for is that these rules simply be followed. 
In view of this request for adherence to rules and consistency in their application, I cannot see any clear justification for such ac­tions. 
First, all forms ofbeer and alcohol were not allowed to be brought into the stadium area. Many people were stopped and all alcoholic beverages were routinely confiscated. Thus I cannot see how this can was brought into the stadium. Second, no beer or alcohol was allowed to be sold. If this waiter was bringing the alcohol to someone in the box as part ofa service provided for the guests of the Hoosier Dome, and further ifsomeone paid for this ser­vice, I cannot see how this did not constitute a sale. 

If, as would be consistent (if consistency is my sole criterion), this ban on alcohol sale was brought about in light of the administra­tion's position on public drinking and un­derage drinking, and further, if the administration felt that the banning ofall alco­hol in the stadium was the apporpriate response in support of such a position, surely then all should have been held accountable to such rules. Universal rules are universally blind. Unless the agreement that brought about this ban had any stipulations or excep· tions, then it must have been understood to have included all who were in the stadium Sat· urday. 
Perhaps though I am applying a standard of consistency in a much stricter sense then has so far been used in reference to the Univer· sity's position on alcohol. If, as the University Committee on the Responsible Use ofAlcohol has stated, "it is the conviction of the llniver­sity that drunkeness and public intoxication are unacceptable" and further if no one "of age" is to provide alcohol to minors, then it seems to follow that no tailgaters ofany kind should be allowed. Alcohol is not to be pro­vided to minors. Alcohol containers are not to be open near underage students. Therefore, 
tailgaters should be universally banned. They 
often lead to underage drinking; they often 
take on a public nature; and they often lead to 
public intoxication. Thus in light of consis­
tency, student tailgaters are appropriately 
banned. However, this rule should be univer­
sal, i.e. all tailgaters, regardless of who is or­
ganizing them should be banned. I realize that 
the alumni would be upset. However this 
should not be of concern to the administra· 
tion. Whether or not the alums were upset at 
the ban in the Hoosier Dome did not seem of 
sufficient weight to allow drinking there. I do 
not think that such a ban is unenforceable, as 
the administration previously stated. The 
strength ofone's conviction should be suffici· 
ent incentive to universally apply one's rules. 
A few concluding remarks. I am not usually 
inspired to fight for a cause. In my previous 
three years at Notre Dame, I have kept myself 
out of the way of the numerous conflicts that 
seem to sweep this campus on a regular basis. 
I believe I still have. I do not wish to make a 
stand on the alcohol policy. Whether or not I 
support or oppose it is oflittle consequence. I 
only want to state that if these are the rules ­
then everybody should play by them. Perhaps 
I am reading too much into one small "Bud 
Ught" that was in the wrong place at the 
wrong time. Perhaps further I am risking some 
backlash by mentioning such prominent men 
in the administration. However, what I sup­
port, consistency in application, should be ac· 
cepted by all. If there is a reasonable, rational 
reason why the ban this weekend seemed to 
have some loopholes, then I will gladly hear it 
out. If there is no consistent application, then I 
can only ask, Why? 
Brian Casey is a senior in the College ofArts & Letters. 
IP.O. BoxQ I 
llar•e yo11 reml sometbing ill Tlw Ohservcryo11 didn't q11ile agree rl'itb? If so, u•rite a letter to tbt• editor. Leiters to tbe editor IIIIISI he u•e/1-ll'riltell and ~,pet/. Tbe'' m11st also hear tbe address, telepbone 1111mher and signaturt• of the author (initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable). Material sborter tbmr 100 u•ords will receir>e priori~)'. All leiters are SIIIJject to editing and become tbe property ofThe Ohserver. 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor·in·Chief. . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . . .. Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller . . . Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Edt tor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager .......Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . . . ... Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . . ... Jeff O'Neill reflect the poilc1es of the admmistration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager. . ..... Kevin Williams accurately and as ObJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a major1ty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Vtewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through lettnrs, Features Editor .............. Mary Healy IS encouraged Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 
~--~.-----__-____
---~~--~~­

! I I ~ I  Sports Briefs Officials are needed for interhall football and soc­cer. No previous officiating experience is required. If interested, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. --Tbe Obseroer  
t  The Windsurfing Club will have a meeting today at 7 p.m., at St. joe's Lake. In case of rain, the meeting will be held at LaFortune. Membership fee of ten dollars is required. Lessons and racing to be discussed. --The Obseroer  
The Notre Dame Boxing Club will be con­ducting the annual Novice Boxing Program for beginning boxers. The program begins today at 4 p.m. in the boxing room of the ACC. For more information call Mike Latz at 2366. --Tbe Obseroer  
The ND women's fastpitch softball club will hold a mandatory meeting for all new and returning players today at 6:30 p.m. in room 007 of Farley Hall. Those who are inter­ested but unable to attend the meeting, should call Mara at 4583, Jackie at 4541, or Sheila at 4598. --The Obseroer  
The Notre Dame Field Hockey Team lost to Purdue yesterday, 2-1. Details will be in tomorrow's paper. -­Tbe Obseroer  
Speaking of Sports will feature a discussion of last week's Purdue game and this week's Michigan State game tomorrow night at 10 p.m. on WVFI, AM 64. listeners may voice their opinions by calling in at 239-6400. --The Obseroer  
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will have an organizational meeting on Wednesday, September 12, at 7 p.m. in the Rockne gymnastics room. All old members and those interested in joining are asked to attend. --Tbe Obseroer  
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will have an impor­tant meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. at the boat house for all current and new members. --Tbe Obseroer  

Monday, September 10, 1984-page 6 


Soccer 
continuedfrom page 8 
vert any of those opportunities into points on the scoreboard. 
At halftime, Grace told his players that they were lucky they had not yet been scored upon, and he warned them that they needed to play better in the second period. · The Irish responded, and the second half was, in Grace's words, "a half-field scrimmage." 
Mark Bidinger scored his first goal ofthe season at 49:13 ofthe contest. Szanto fed the ball to the 5-9 junior at the top of the Louisville penalty area, and Bidinger beat Cardinal goalkeeper Glenn Whitfield with a hard shot to the right side of the goal. 
Herdegen had two excellent shots in the following minutes, but one shot hit the right goalpost, and Whit­field made a beautiful save on a hard head shot. 
Szanto also had a few shots at the Louisville net, and one led to an Irish goal. At 63:25, Whitfield blocked a Szanto shot, but freshman john Fos­sella took the rebound on the half-
volley and slammed it home from 
ten yards out for his first career goal. 
Once again, as happened in the previous two games, the Irish gave up a goal after going up, 2-0. 
Cardinal jamil Shalash got the ball on a one-on-two breakaway, beat both defenders, and shot the ball past Irish keeper Mark Steranka, who had come out to cut down the angle to the goal for Shalash. With 21:52 remaining in the match, the Car­dinals trailed by only one goal. 
This time, however, the Irish were not going to quit. 
With only a few minutes left in the game, Fossella was tripped deep on the right side of the Louisville penalty area. When the ensuing free kick got away from Whitfield, Bidinger slammed the ball into the net to give the Irish breathing room with only 7:07 remaining. 
Grace was noticeably more pleased with yesterday's game than he had been with his team's first two outings. 
"(We showed) much better inten­sity, a little bit better of a knockout punch, a little bit better 'killer in­stinct,' I call it. The first two games we went up 2-0, and then we laid back, and the teams got back in the ballgame." 

Game 
continuedfrom page 8 
because he had problems catching the ball, intercepted the pass and deflated the Irish. 
Ironically, the Boilers had 12 players on the field during the play, but the officials did not see it. 
"They had 12 players on the field on that last interception," said Pinkett, "but I'm not going to blame the game on officiating." 
The person who is getting most of the blame right now from the na­tional media is Faust. The Irish were not very prepared for the game and it showed. 
"Purdue did a couple of things with motion on their pass offense that we didn't expect that seemed to confuse us," admitted Faust. 
Michigan State, last year's upset winner, is probably licking its lips. The only time in the last three years that the Irish have not lost at least two in a row was in 1982 after a loss to Arizona. The next week they tied Oregon. 
s.turday'e GMne 
Purdue  3  10  3  7  23  
Notre Dame  14  0  o  7  21  
Scoring  

PU-Rendina31 FG 
NO -Pinken 11 run (Carney kick) 
NO-Brooks 3 run (Carney kick) 
PU -Price 7 pass from Everen (Rendina kick) 
PU-Rendina 18 FG 
PU -Rendina 20 FG 
PU -Price 14 pass from Everen (Rendina kick) 
NO-Pinken 6 run (Carney kick) 
PU NO First~ 22 21 Rushing anempts 43 37 Net Yards Rushing 124 97 Net Yards Passing 255 233 Passes comp-anempted 2Q-28 13-20 
Had intercepted 1 3 Total Net Yards 379 330 Fumbles-lost o-o 3-2 Penalties-yards s-ao 6-40 Punts-average 4-41 2-38 lndlvldu•l LMclere 
RUSHING -Purdue: Carter 22-58; King &-39; Wallace 5-19; Everen 7-a; Notre Dame: Pinkett 22· 69; Brooks 8-29; Smith 3-1; Bauerlein 4-2; 
PASSING-Purdue: Everen 20-28·1,255: Notre Dame: Bauerlein 13-2Q-3,233; 
RECEIVING -Purdue: Griffin 5-79; Carter 5-23; Brunner4-74; Scon2-42; Price2-20; King2-17; Notre Dame: Howard 3-61: Bavaro 3-55; Jackson 2-38; Brown 1·19; Smith 1·18; Miller 1-15; Pinken 1-14; Brooks 1·13; Anendance-60,672 (c) 


Defense 
continuedfrom page 8 
inator Andy Christoff. "We didn't have Figero prepared to play. The in­experience at outside linebacker hurt us because we had a hard time with adjustments." 
The excuses may have been believable for that position, but the lack ofa consistent pass rush and the loose defensive practices of the sec­ondary are what really hurt the Irish. 
Play after play, Notre Dame's de­fensive backs played five or more yards behind Purdue receivers, giving up 10 to 15 yard receptions. Add that to the big plays that resulted from its repeated mental lapses, and the Notre Dame second­ary made Everett look like a Heis­man Trophy candidate. 
"We just lost our poise and didn't execute," continued Christoff. "We were in the right defenses, but some crucial mental errors killed us." 
"We're certainly going to expect other teams to throw against us as much as they (Purdue) did," said safety Joe Johnson. "People will think that's our weak spot, and we're going to have to take it upon our­selves to play harder and get rid of the mental errors." 
Faust offered no specific solution to the problem. 
"We need to play better pass defense, and that'll come with the young kids we've got back there," he said. "We've also got to get a better pass rush." 
The Ohserr•er Notre Dame olfke. located on tht· third lloor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from') <~.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Ma~··s office. located on the third ll()(ir of Haggar College Center, accepts dassifieds from 12:50 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for ntoxt-day dassifieds is 5 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or hy maiL Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­



Classifieds 
ters r da . 

NEED 20 PEOPLE FOR WOOD MFG. NEED RIDERS TO INDIANA U THIS !!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE 
SEX AND PLEASURE WEEKDAYS 4:00 • 8:30. $4.00 P/HR 
CO.. OPERATORS & ASSEMBLERS. WEEKEND CALL PAUL AT 1034 I can do without, but I really need a couple 

PERSONALS
NOTICES I.AM.seei<.INGAN·s·i.1·c·siuoeN1Wi-io of Miami tix. If you can help, p/888e call 2822 
CONTACT WAYNE MILLER DAYTON 

JOHN at 2495. Thanx. I luv ya, you're Marc Ramirez -Madder Than Mad In '84 CONTINENTAL CORP. 52275 US 31 N. CAN HELP ME CLEAN MY BIG OLD 
wonderful.

2n-o111 HOUSE WEEKLY ON THURSDAYS A;~ ..:;;;;;··;~·-~;;;;;;-·;;i··Fii:iANci~i:-·A"io? (MORNING OR AFTERNOON) FOR It's always the same. ···································· 
$12/DAY, LUNCH PROVIDED. CALL MAUREEN GALLAGHER HAPPY 21st!!
It's just a shame.
Leaderahlp Training! Challenge! Ad­234-4498 EVENINGS. Can't believe you're finally legal! Go live it
That's all.
venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Need 6 GA's and 4 STUD's for Air Force up for 'Bill and Maureen'! Have a GREAT Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the N;;;;;;·riiiii·;;(in;·c;;;i~·;nt;;,&'iii·s;;;;it;·a&~<i Oct. 18. Cell Jeff at232-Q904. day! Love BOB 
ROTC Building. (23&-6264) LOST/FOUND I -a..-1•
Sunday, September 16. Please call Tracy ,·N'eEo'Jus-r·Oiiiel'ici<E=r.Foo.MiiiMi: F>t.ii"L~~-is·•~~ic&i.......................... 
at 284-5185. 

A;~··:;;;;,..·i~...;;;;d..;;i..F=ii:iANci&..ii.l.o? NEE·o····a····M·IAMi····aA:s····wii.I····PAY 
AND 2-4 TICKETS FOR THE AIRFORCE ............................
'MY LONG LOST BROTHER HAS BEEN
Leaderahlp Training! Challenge! Ad­MASSIVE BUCKS 3639 GAME. PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT 272-Need help with calculus, freshmen? call
FOUND. HE WALKED ALL THE WAY
venture! SCHOLARSHIPS• See LTC Bob 6278. $$$$$. Kathi powers at4349. Reasons ble rate. 
Losr··Iosf··wOiiiaii'i···iiiii<i..WiiiCfi:: BACK FROM VIETNAM, AND HIS
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the 
~~rr:'~~-you find it or have found it Neio..4.sruo..Ofi.oi·a:c:··nci<mi ONLY WISH IS TO SEE A NOTRE
ROTC Building. (23&-6264) 
FOR SALE CALL ROB 4605 OR IIICH 1283 DAME FOOTBALL GAME. If you have a Eiii>'eii1rvi>.iNa·2:n-:s534·~ii;;;'5:'30···­I don't care if we spend the night 
student ticket or a GA for the Miami 
....$$$$'$$$i$$$$$$$'$'$'$'$'$$$$'$$$$$''''' game please call Sarah at1333. Think of 
........................................... at your mansion 
----...ai:iiooii....iiFiiooe...ai:ii'ooii........ it as an act of patriotism, selling your ticket 
FOR RENT MAXELLXL22.751150 g:~~':l7T~N~~ORADO TICKET I don't care if we spand the night 
to a vet

Who saye there's nothing to do? Call on the town 
Town & Country Bridge Canter at 255-FOR'SALE'4'CR'OSBY. STil.LS'&''NASH ..........wAi.iri'O'MAKE.MON'ev'?""""··· uR'iiiN..iil'liN'G'ii'litioT-os..N.Eiioiio·: Alii want is to spand the night 
6613 for more information. LUXURY 2 BEDROOM APT TO SHARE: TICKETS SEPT 17th 8:00 p.m. in IN­Then seU us your Colorado tickets! IF YOU TOOK PHOTOS ON YOUR together DIANAPOLIS. CALL 1331 We are desperate and will pay well!! Alii want is to spend the night 
TENNIS, SAUNA, EXERCISE ROOM, PLUNGE, THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL
iYi>iNG.'AvA"ilA8Le_··2ii7"4iiii2:··........... 
Help us! PLEASE!!! in your nose 
INC. FIREPLACE, LAKEVIEW, DISH­CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE WASHER. HEAT, & MORE! 256-6676 COPIES OF THEMI LEAVE YOUR
FLOPPIES FOR SALE! (Disks that is). Call 283-2083/2084 $1.50 per. JOHN 3592 Ask for Bob, Larry, Sid, or Oscar OOPS.
PICT\JRES WITH THE FRONT DESK •It's something we've all got to do. 
................................................................
NEED 1 OR 2 ROOMMATES FOR OFF THEY WILL BE RETURNED! 
DO YOU KNOW SOMEONE WHO's 1980 Honda Accord 2 door hatchback. 5
CAMPUS HOUSE. HOUSE IS ON COR­

DYING TO BE THIN? Anorexia nervosa speed AM-FM Stereo Great gas mileage CHERYL, PEGGY AND MARYA Here's
NER OF N.D. AVE. AND CORBY N98diid:·;.;;;A.'i.i'l.iickei~:·p;;;;;;;e·cail'jC>ii~ The weight of the world lays on my
and bulimia are serious eating disorders 49,000 miles $4,800 CALL 28&-3167 to a week of munching, mixing and men in 
STREET. CALL JASON AT 234·1253. at2650. Thankyou. shoulders, .............................. Bur what am I to do?
affecting hundreds of young women on 1he wilds of Michigan! I hear it can get the Notre Dame/St. Mary's campus. NEE'i:i..s..P'Ei.iiiisr'Ai'E"rliCcili··oA"i.i preny cold on those frosty October
APARTMENT TO SHARE Cloee to NO I know sometimes I be crazy, 2bedroom/2bath,A/C,PARKING,POOL, But I worry about you.
Many promising futures will be disrupted TYPEWRITER; OLIVETTI PRAXIS, 4057 nights ... BYOB (bring your own blanket is or destroyed by these disorders unless MOD.KITCHEN. WASHER/DRYER CORA. WITH MEMORY, USED 1 YEAR only one interpretation.) -S 
I know it makes no difference they are treated. But now there is HOPE-­$212 MONIUTL CALL 232·0305 $250 INCL CARTRIDGES CALL 288-To what you're going through, 
......iiia"iiR'oiiiEFisiBiiisisi'Efi·s:····--

Heallhy Options for Problem Eaters, the 9347 
But I see the tip of the iceberg 
Memorial Hospital Program for compre­NEEDED: THREE GA'S FOR MIAMI OR Miniature Golf, Video Games, Snacks ­
And I worry about you.
hensive treatment of these disorders. In­AIR FORCE GAME AND ONE GA FOR This Thursday Evening. Cell John Shea at dividual and group therapy is available, PENN STATE. DESPERATE!$$$$ CALL 2n-oso1 for more information. with a new 10 week group beginning &-18-SUSAN 284-4281 ························· 
CIAO STUDENT! ND/SMC ITALIAN
;Qe;:,~,:,~Oo=l I mm~~~~~;~ 

................................................................ I WANT TO HAVE A BABY! NEEDED 3 GA AIR FORCE. CALL 
84. For more information, contact Dr. 
CLUB ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
Daniel Rybicki (formerly of NO Psych. 
TUES SEPT 11 8:30 PM LITTLE 
an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­JAMIE 284-5476 NEED RIDE TO PHILLY, WEEKEND OF Serv.) at Memorial Hospital 284-7308. 
························ THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE EVERY­
ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT 9/15. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL
Special rates for NO-SMC community. Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (23&-I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI 1·H'Aiie'c&oRiioo"siuo··riX:'wiiNr ONE WELCOME! REFRESHMENTS GERRY x4558. 
FULLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. GAME!!!!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 2n-2561
6264) TO TRADE FOR MIAMI STUD. TIX OR FOLLOWING! 
Don't let these disorders ruin your future OR 23&-7471. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
GAS WILL ALSO TRADE FOR N.D.­••••••••••4••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
or that of one's you love ... CALL 284-NEeoeo:..·;:-wo..·a:ii:..·rici<El's'"i'ofi $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MISSOURI TIX CALL 2n-7570!!!!! TIM, IS THIS CAMPUS VIEW? LW. CECE MAST IS 18TODAY. Be a Birthday 7308, MEMORIAL HOSPITAL for HOPE. MIAMI GAME: CALL 283-3884 Present And Give Her a Call-3738. 
Need student ticket for Miami. call I CANT TAKE IT ANYMORE! GIVE ME ·······················•······················ 
L-5 SOCIETY MEETING: Mon­WANTED; FULL-TIME BABYSITTER AT NEEDED! FOOTBALL TIX FOR THE Margie $$$$2n-3637 Why yes, I •ma Monty Python fan. 
FREEDOM, GIVE ME LIBERTY, SELL
PENN STATE GAME. CALL VINCE AT Are you a Letterman fan? 
day,Sept10 7:00pm LaFortune Unle MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND ME YOUR CAR! IF YOU KNOW
OCC. 4 YR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORTA­1233. $$$$ BIG BUXXX $$$$ FOR TWO AIR TION TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA. FORCE GA TIX CALL JOHN 283-1306 
Theater. New members welcome. 
ANYONE SELLING A CAR FOR UNDER rwa··s~c·.-·GA··s··& ·1···sTU6.''T1X..FOR $1000, CALL 1216 IMMEDIATELY (IF 
MEL. YOU ARE A DOLL!!!! PROGRESSIVE 
SALARIED. REFERENCES. AFTER 

SALE BEST OFFER. RICK 4384 r:.ie'Eo·2-PEiiiN-·si'ArE.'G'A·s·io'8uv·:.: NOT SOONER.) 
6PM CALL; 28&-9193. 

MUSIC..PROGRESSIVE MUSIC: lnter­OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,
................................................................ OR WILL TRADE FOR 2 AIR FORCE
..wd In the club but you mlued our CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE 
IF YOU HAVE PHOTOS OF YOUR UR­NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR GA'S. CALL JANET AT 4376 Thtt eyee -lly ere the window to lh•
first ..-lng? QUICKI Cell BIH BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MIAMI FOOTBALL GAME CALL 283-eoul. Julll lllka a look eomllllme. lt'aBAN PLUNGE, THE CENTER FOR SO­
~1111185 or K-'th Herrteon 111 3294 Need two Colorado tix; call Dave 1700 or 
..y.

CIAL CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE F:;;;·;;;;·;:;;·.;-;;d;;y·;ii;;;:~~?·H;~~-~~Y COPIES OF THEM. DROP THEM OFF
3345. Act quickly; lh• first •nnuel Bob1646 
PUNK'N'PIZZA PARTY le -..lngl NE'Eo'1:S.Miiimi·nc:kiii8_-·,:n;·;;c;m·ii;;·~~&ii talent for talking to people? Then the 
AT THE FRONT DESK. ALL PHOTOS Catholic family and some of my brothers HELP'i'l<iMiiiii-aiBiv·;;98d·2·Ciii(i;&dO"i3ii Will eomebody please explain to me Observer has the job for you.lf you can beWILL BE RETURNED. what's going on? 
tix. Please call Kelly-4308. here from 1:OQ-5:00 p.m., and are inter­GOOD CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP? IF 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN SOME 
································································ :'J~;-Mr~18~~~~-~~me. Con-ested in making some spending money,
Responsible studant seeking garage near 6MiNiiitt.IY'nMii'1'8iUd4ini'Of'oe.:Mni WOMEN: Do yourselves a favor, call become a Day Editor! To apply, call Tom SO, CALL CHARLIE AT 1517 OR DAVE campus to store car during the winter (";;e;j(j''2"Piiiiiiii"iiii'ior"iiie's""car0iiiiii Aclml...on tlc:k81for the MIAMI pne.H SCOTT at1900. Satisfaction guaranteed! Mowle at23&-5303.
AT 1819. CALL TODAY! 
months. Cell Ted 283-1211. 

game. Ple8ae call Steve at4125. you can help cell Mill! 1114013. 
.-------------------------------,-.-.-.-.-.----------------------------------------------------------------­

'JI['t(Jt~C3l~-------------------------------------------M--o.nd_a_y_._s.ep--te_m_b_e_r 
Io_._1_9_8_4 -p_a_g_e 7 

Campus 
•12 
· 1 p.m. • Debate, Congressman Mickey Ed· wards (R · Oklahoma) vs. ND Law Students, Line Item Veto, Room 101 Law School, Sponsored by Thomas). White Center on Law & Government. 

•3:30 
·4:30p.m.· Computer Minicourse Over­view, Computing Center/Math Building, Free. 

•4:30 
p.m. · Lecture, "Resonance: When is it Uni· mportant?" Prof. Weston Thatcher Borden, University of Washington, Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•6:30 
p.m. ·General Meeting, Foreign Studys Pro· gram Information Evening, Angers, France, Fresh­men & Sophomores, Library Lounge. 

•7 
p.m. · General Meeting, Pre-Law Society, Speakers: Dean Waddick & Pre-Law Society Offi· cers, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Pre-Law Society. 

•7 
p.m. · Placement Night, Arts and Letters Majors, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services. 

•7 
p.m.· Fllm, "The Exterminating Angel," Annen· berg Auditorium, Sponsored by Monday Night Film Series I. 

• 
7:30 p.m. · Meeting, Faculty Senate, Rooms 21 0­214 CCE. 

•8 
p.m. · Organizadonal Meeting, ND-SMC Young Democrats, Little Theatre· LaFortune. 

•9 
p.m.· Fllm, "The Long Voyage Home," Annen­berg Auditorium, Monday Night Film Series II. 



TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  News  
6:30p.m.  16  M0 A0 S0 H  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
7:00p.m.  16  America Staying Healthy  
22  Scarecrow & Mrs. King  
28  A Barbara Walters Special Celebra·  
tlon  
8:00p.m.  16  Marco Polo (Pt. II of IV)  
22  Kate & Allie  
28  Pro  Football:  Washington  vs.  San  
Francisco  
8:30p.m.  22  Newhart  
9:00p.m.  22  Cagney & Lacey  
10:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
10:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Simon & Simon  
ll:OOp.m.  28  News  
11:30  16  Late Night With David Letterman  
28  Nlghtllne  
11:40p.m.  22  McMillan  
12:30a.m.  16  All In The Family  


Bloom County 

WWIF ''MI5Tef< 8WO-? 11fff?e WM. 11ffRE I11N'T I'P 8€ IT. 
NO 5(J(.H I 


Tank McNamara 
Berke Breathed 

5TeVe.' 11-/f. MI5TfR 11MeRICI1 Pfl&ellNT ff'5 llL50 11 15 11 CI//.TIIfl.AL 5ff?IN6EJ()fff<fl 17/NOSAV!f. 1 IT TO 11FA8­~P.P6TIIIlrf5 A IILOU5 N€W 51JP6f?f/CIAL llNil CAReU<. 

WHilT COUU1 
fOS6//Jf-Y 86 /t10R6 fAf31J?OI/5 ··me t.ove THAN N/Nb A 80f!T" hfKe t.AWYU< ?.1 I ~e' 
I e· 
~~~~·..
· 
r,.,----~· ~._. 
~--., CJ=­
'WfOO,## 
'~-...__)---J·,· 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 



Psycho Chicken Octavio 
The Far Side Gary Larson 




"Yes! That's right! The answer Is 'Wisconsin'! Another 50 points for God, and ... uh-oh, looks like Norman, our current champiorl, hasn't even scored yet." 
50 Fast jets 55 Near and Far­51 The one there 56 " ...lovely as a 
_..

52 Long ago 53 Age 58 "They're-!" 54 Moneyln 59 Theatre sign 
Monterrey 60 R.I. red 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 34 Large vessel DOWN 23 Shoe pan 1 Minus 36 Under followers 1 Isolated 24 Mythical Friday's Solution 5 Antitoxin 41 Chemical suffix 
2 Son of Seth nymph 10 Where Plnardel 42 Slave of old 
3 Kind of sign 25 Lacerated Rlols 43 N.T.book 4 Windsorto 26 Tropical fruit 14 Awareof 44 Manor houses 
GeorgeV15 Ordinary 46 Sonnet ending 27 Empty
5 Suit in bridge language 6 Bobbled
46 Son of Zeos 28 Embankments 16 The Red 49 River edge 29 Celebrations
7 Went by bus 17 After followers 50 Mode 8 Country 30 Bounce 20 Acute Intuition 53 Others to Virgil 31 Classic poet 
monogram21 Brain wave in 54 Family 9 "All the King's 35 Try 
Paris member? _.. 37 Apprehended 22 Freeman work 57 Over followers 
38 Bone: pref. 

23 Dashed 61 Catskill pond 10 Building 39 Singles24 Like-of 62 Ice material 40 Dominobricks 63 Being: Lat. 11 Caspian feeder 45 Aptitude26 Capers 64 Dele's opposite 12 Nip 46 Good folks 29 Faced 65 Baptism 13 Yearn 47 Geraint's wife 
32 Bluedye receptacles 18 Clean ©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
49 Sudden gust 

33 Republic of Ire. 66 Letter 19 Hummed 9/10184 All Rights Reserved 9/10/84 


----~--~--­
Monday, September 10, 1984 -page 8


SRorts 

Irish mistakes help Purdue pull off upset, 23-21 
By MIKE SULLIVAN wiped out a first down with a Sports Editor penalty that resulted in a loss of a down. Every other drive ended with 
INDIANAPOLIS -Until a couple of a touchdown or a turnover. days ago, critics accused Notre "We just kept giving the ball back Dame coach Gerry Faust of getting to them," said Steve Beuerlein, who his team too psyched up for the was an excellent 13-of-20 passing season opener. They claimed that for 233 yards, but who also threw the Irish were so sky-high for the three interceptions. opener that they were bound to let As a result of all the turnovers, down the following week. In fact, Purdue was able to have possession they argued, Notre Dame would of the ball for nearly two of the final look so good in the opener that it three quarters. The Irish offense, would fill the team and the fans with with all its weapons. was forced to false visions ofa national champion­stand on the sidelines as the Purdue ship. 
offense had a field day with the 
After Saturday's season opener young Irish defense. against Leon Burtnett's Purdue Purdue quarterback Jim Everett, Boilermakers, the critics will have to who was battling a freshman red­
eat their words. · shirt for the starting berth up until 
In what many people considered game time, looked like former Boiler one ofthe easiest Notre Dame games star Mark Herrmann as he ripped to of the year, the Boilers won, 23-21, shreds the Notre Dame pass and gave the Faust critics around the coverage. Everett had the best day of country more ammunition. his career, completing 20 of 28 
The Boilers' victory was no fluke, passes for 255 yards and two touch­however. They controlled the game downs, as he was graced with wide­for most of the final three quarters open receivers and a great deal of · after the Irish had dominated the time to pass all day. first quarter. In fact, Purdue even Most of Everett's success came had the statistical edge ( 3 79 total after Irish captain Mike Golic was 
Mark Brooks dove into the Purdue endzonefor this Notre Dame did notscore again, however, until/ate in 
yards to 330), something that Notre forced to leave the game with a touchdown, which gave the Irish a 14-3 edge over the the fourth quarter. Mike Sullivan bas the complete Dame normally claims. bruised right shoulder. Golic was Boilermakers in the first period of Saturday's game. game story on the right. "That's the biggest win I've ever hurt very early in the second quarter 
been associated with at Purdue," during Purdue's first scoring drive. said Burtnett after the game. "The as­He was replaced by freshman CedricOver weekend sistant coaches and players deserve Figaro, who became one of Everett's 
all rhe credit. They did it all -the favorite targets. players won this game, not the The move to play Figaro proved coaches." costly, as he was the I2th man on the
Soccer team gains two victories 
Burtnett was slightly incorrect, field during a Purdue field goal at­ByPHILWOLF however, the Boilermakers began to "I thought once we went up 2-0, however. His players did not "do it tempt. The penalty gave the Boilers AssistantSports Editor assert themselves and create some I'd give a lot of people a chance to all." Rather, they received quite a bit a first down, and they took advan­
offensive threats. play," Grace said. "I probably wasn't ofhelp from the Notre Dame players tage of the mistake to score their 
The Notre Dame soccer team im­Sophomore Szanto did his part to very wise on where I put whom. I and coaches. first touchdown. proved its record to 3-0 this counter the Purdue momentum by probably asked too much of the The Irish players fumbled twice -As poorly as Notre Dame played, weekend with victories over Purdue scoring his first goal of the season people that I put in there." both inside their own 1 5-yard line, however, it still had a very good and Louisville. with 21:03 remaining in the game. Grace said he also was not pleased threw three interceptions, and made chance to avoid the upset. After the 
Purdue was the victim Friday Sophomore midfielder Chris Ryan by the Notre Dame offense in the such mental mistakes as having too defense shut the Boilers down fol­night on Cartier Field, 2-1, and recorded the assist on that goal. game. many men on the field and lining up lowingAllen Pinkett's second touch­Louisville fell yesterday, 3·1, on Purdue kept the pressure on, "We created some good opportu­in an illegal formation. down run Of the day, the Irish Alumni Field. however, and the Irish seemed to nities again, but we're not very accu­"It's apparent to everybody that offense regained possession on its 
The Irish began to dominate play ease up after the second goal. Then, rate going to goal," the Irish coach we made too many mistakes," said own 44 with two-and-a-half minutes immediately after the kickoff Friday at 83:31 of the contest, Purdue's said. "Once we get inside that 25-Allen Pinkett, who gained just 69 left. night, and senior captain Rich Her­Hector Corona got loose from his yard line, we have a tendency to lose yards in 22 carries during the Needing only a field goal to win, degen put Notre Dame on the defender after a free kick in front of our composure and not play very frustrating afternoon. "We beat our­Notre Dame appeared to be in good scoreboard with only 9:44 gone in the Irish goal, and his teammateJohn well in that last quarter of the field. selves." shape. Beuerlein called a double the contest. The goal was Her­Rosandich passed him the ball about That's something we definitely need The Boilers deserved to win the screen -a screen set up on both sides degen's third ofthe season. ten yards in front of the net. to work on." game because they made very few -in the huddle. He looked right to 
Junior Dave Miles took the ball Corona's shot beat goalkeeper Dan Yesterday's game against Louis­mistakes and capitalized on NO's. Pinkett but felt the Boilers had the deep in the right corner and crossed Coughlin to keep the Boilermakers ville had much less careless play of The Irish did make things easy for play covered. He tossed the ball to the ball in front of the Boilermakers' in the game, 2-1. the type displayed Friday night. The Purdue, though, as they did a better the left instead, not seeing that goal. The pass was deflected by a The Irish were able to protect first half was characterized by back­job ofstopping their offense than the Purdue tackle Don Baldwin had got­defender, and Irish forward Pat their lead for the remaining seven and-forth play, but the Cardinals Boilers did. ten off the ground and stood in the Szanto slipped while attempting a minutes ofplay, and they came away created many scoring opportunities Notre Dame punted two times all passing lane. Baldwin, a converted shot. Herdegen then came in from with the 2-1 victory. for themselves. Fortunately for the day, once because it fumbled a hand­tight end who switched to defense the left side of the goal and slammed Notre Dame head coach Dennis Irish, Louisville was not able to con-off on a third-and-three play on the the ball into the center of the net Grace said he was not pleased with Purdue 33, and the other because it see GAME, page 6 
see SOCCER, page 6 
with his right foot. the result of the game, however. He 
The first half passed quickly, with said he blamed himself for the the Irish continuing to dominate decrease in intensity ofplay that led play. Shortly into the second half, to the Boilermaker goal. 
Boilers cause major problems for defense 
By mERON ROBERTS Faust said. "We were concerned be­Sports Writer cause our secondary is young, but we felt they could do the job." 
INDIANAPOLIS -If Notre Dame Problems for the secondary drowned in the concrete jungle started in the second quarter when called the Hoosier Dome on Satur­Everett began to find his receivers day, then the crucial mistakes the wide open downfield. Even with five team committed was the water that defensive backs on the field, the did the trick. Irish could not prevent Bolier 
The fumbles, the penalties and the receivers from finding an opening. mental lapses hurt the Irish all day To make matters even worse, and took away opportunity after op­linebacker Mike Golic left the game portunity for the Notre Dame of­with an injured shoulder and was fense. replaced with freshman Cedric 
But, even more than that, it was Figero, and the Irish already had the inability ofthe Irish defenders to been forced to substitute sopho­stop Purdue quarterbackjim Everett more Robert Banks for the injured and the Boiler aerial attack. Mike Larkin. 

"We felt they would throw a lot "We weren't ready for Golic to get Thr: Observer/Pch~ L.achn because Everett is a good quarter­injured," admitted defensive cooed-
The Boilermaker defense held Allen Pinkett to only have such a good day. Theron Roberts details the de­
back and he had a good day against 
see DEFENSE, page 6 

69 yards on Saturday, but the Irish defense did not fensive troubles in his story on the left. 
us last year," Head Coach Gerry 









