Loret Ruppe-page 6 1 
l 

Student officials c new final exam policy an unnecessary burden 
By TOM MOWLE of the Faculty Senate, said no review AssistantNews Editor of the council's decisions would be possible. Bertino agreed any attempt 
Student government officials to appeal would be worthless. He expressed disappointment over the did say seniors have a lot ofthings to elimination of senior exemptions plan in their second semester, such and other amendments to the as arranging jobs and housing in Academic Code passed at this their new workplaces. week's meeting of the Academic Sayre commented this change Council. could "make it a lot easier to make 
"We didn't think our proposal on exceptions because the chairperson senior exemptions would go knows the particular needs of the through," said Student Body Presi­course." dent Rob Bertino. Student Govern­Borelli said there was no disagree­ment Information Director Tom ment on this point in the Senate "in Knee said, "Mike Hayes (acting light of abuses such as giving the academic commissioner for student final on the last day or not at all. government) raised some good Modifications are possible if ap­points, but it seemed the members proved by the chairman. We wanted of the Academic Council were pret­to let instructors know variations ty narrow-minded about it." were possible. They could give a 
According to Knee, Hayes, who take-home. for example." represented the Senate to the 
A clarification to the policy on
The Observer /Carol Gales Academic Council, noted if senior 
failures was also made by the Coun­
Cavanaugh curtain call 
exemptions arc taken away, there
be presented tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. cil. The previous policy stated,
will be a lower level ofachievement
Robert Ellsworth (sitting), and Ben Silverman act Cavanaugh presents a play each year to add to its "Unexcused absenses from the 
among seniors because they will no 
out a scene from ''The Sunshine Boys" last night in Andy Sowder Memorial Fund, established in the semester examination will result in
longer strive for a B, but will settle
Chatauqua Ballroom. The Neil Simon play will also memory ofaformer hallpresident. the student's receiving a grade of F."
for a lower grade. 
Borelli said the Faculty Senate
The past policy, which is still in 
pointed out this ambiguity, but
effect for this semester, has been:"At made no recommendation.


Dorm loft policy changes debated 
the discretion of the instructor, graduating seniors who so request Sayre said the committee read the may be exempted from taking the original intent ofthis as being failure 
final exaination in an undergraduate in the course, not just on the exam. course if their work in that course "Questions were raised," he said, "as 

at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY have to ban construction to limit its against the university. 
up to the time of the final examina­to the justice of this: if the finalNews Staff liability." "As we replace furniture, we are tion has earned a grade of at least a should be so important as to result inFerman Badgley, police comman-restricting lofts." 
B." failure in itself. The general senti­The issue of lofts in dorms has der at Michigan State University, Both North and Badgley said these Professor Kenneth Sayre, a mem­ment was that the value of the finalawakened an outburst ofattention at said, "There has been no lawsuit. were the frrst such incidents in the ber of the Committee on Final Ex­depends on the weight given to it.
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Michigan State University is in no history of their universities. Badgley aminations said the exemptions Policy ought not to dictate one
At Notre Dame, Dean Roemer, in a way liable in any way I can see. The said, "Michigan State University has policy had "no support whatsoever" general weight."
letter to The Observer, said student was intoxicated. He was in the largest student housing in the among committee members. The committee reaffirmed the
"appropriate policy changes are his room alone. Apparently, he fell country." MSU has 17,000 students Dean Christy, senior class presi­University's policy that final ex­
being considered" after an incident and fractured his skull. The loft was living on campus. dent, said "I don't agree with the ex­aminations must be given as
last fall at Michigan State University. no higher than a bunk bed, but the Donald Gerhing, co-editor ofThe A student died after a fall from an student died." College Student & The Courts, ex­emption policy. It's not going to scheduled. The procedure for help the University academically. making a change from this was
elevated bed, commonly called a Or. Gary North, director of plained loft liability. "Once a univer­Second semester seniors don't pay a amended to require the approval of
loft. housing at the University of Illinois, sity allows a student to build a loft, whole lot ofattention to final exams the department chairperson and
Roemer also said. "Construction said, "We did have a student fall out they create a duty for themselves. -they're more worried about jobs, review by the dean. Previously, the
on dorm rooms may be banned at of a loft. The loft was constructed It's a question ofrisk-management." graduating, saying good-bye to dean's approval was required.
the University of Illinois after a stu­without our authority by another Gerhing said the low number ofinci­friends. All it's going to be is an
dent was injured falling out of a student's father. A young woman dents makes it a risk a university can added burden that they won't take exams were
Weights for final
dorm loft. The student has since visiting the room fell out of the loft accept. He cited research by a Uni­seriously. 
changed from the old policy of zerofiled his intent to sue the university. and cut her leg on an exposed bolt. versity of St. Louis professor which to one-third of the grade to a rangeSince the University of Illinois can­She tore thigh ligaments arid had indicated lofts create a positive "We can make an appeal to the of one-fifth to one-half of the grade.
not guarantee the safety of all severe scarring. The young woman dorm environment. 
Academic Council," he added, "to Knee said the Senate had favoredstudent-built, elevated beds, it may has since filed an intent to sue When contacted, Roemer said, find out why they made the change leaving the old policy in effect, but
"Student Affairs intends to discuss 
and maybe work out a compromise. would have accepted an upper limit
(lofts) next week. I don't know what 
The intention is for a better Notre of 40 percent.

French truce observers 
the University policy is going to be. 
targets of sniper attack 
Associated Press There was no comment on the 
report from Lebanese police or the 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Snipers fired four-party security committee, un­at French truce observers in Beirut der which the French marine com­on Wednesday and warring Chris­mandos have been serving as truce tian and Moslem militiamen traded observers. artillery barrages that killed six The committee, which includes people, state television reported. representatives of the Lebanese 
None of the white-helmeted army as well as Christian, Druse and French observers was injured in the Shiite Moslem militias, was meeting first attack on them since they took at a horse racetrack at the time ofthe positions at the only remaining attack in an attempt to stop the shell­crossing between Christian east and ing of residential neighborhoods. Moslem west Beirut 20 days ago, the Police said six people were killed, television said. including two soldiers, and 45 
The station said a patrol of the ob­wounded by overnight shelling. It servers on duty near the crossing did not issue new casualty figures for came under automatic rifle fire at the fighting during the rest of the around midday. The report did not day. say whether the attack came from Christian-controlled radio sta­the Moslem or the Christian side of tions said artillery salvos crashed in­the Lebanese capital. to east Beirut. 
Dame academically, but the ques­tion is how this will add to that."
see LOFTS, page 5 see EXAM, page 4
Professor Mario Borelli, chairman 


Institute debates democratic ideals 
ByMARYCAROLCREADON American, European, and Latin The conference will conduct four News Staff American specialists on the subject, sessions. On Monday, April 16, Ses­will present the range ofdiscussions sion 1, 9 a.m.-12:30 p.m., is titled 
"Economic Development and begun by Hirschman. "Strategies for Economic Develop­Democracy" is the topic of the ment." Session 2, 2:30-6 p.m., deals Helen Kellogg Institute's interna-Funded by a gift to Notre Dame by 
with "Trespassing: Economy,tiona! conference April 15-17 at the Helen Kellogg Foundation, the Politics, and Society." Tuesday, AprilNotre Dame's Center for Continuing Institute is designed to advance un­17 will open with "Values and Per-Education. The conference draws its derstanding of Third World 
. . . . ·, . . ceptions in Social Change" in Ses­
tnSplrauon from the work of, and is development, espeCially 111 Latm in_tended to be a tribute to.' Albert ~-, ~merica, through rese~r_c~, edu~a-sion 3, 9 a.m.-12:30 p.m. The fimil H1rschman on the occasiOn of h1s Iuon, and outreach actiVIties. In 1ts session, 2:30-6 p.m., will look into 
retirement from the Institute for Ad-~tudy o~ Latin America, the Institute "Possibility of Democracy: Exit, v~nced Study ~t ~rinceton. ~niver-1s focusmg on democracy, develop-Voice, and Loyalty." All sessions are s1ty. The 25 m~lted ~arunpants, ment, and the· human values, per-open to Notre Dame faculty and stu­among the most d1stmgmshed North sonal and social, linking the two. dents. 
The Observer Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 2 

In Brief 
An Indiana Army lieutenantwho is attempt­
ing a solo asn·nt of Mount McKinley is at thl· 14. SOO-foot level and appl·ars to hl· in J.:ood shapl·, a glacier pilot said yesterday. Jim <>konek of K.2 A vi at ion said he spotted 3I -year-old Bruce Shearer of lndianapolb early Wednesday, and th<: climber stamped out a message in thl· snow indicating he was OK. Bad weather had obscured the .20,.-~.W-tilOt peak for nearly a week. Shearer left base camp on :\1arch .2.J, and said he was taking enough supplit:s to last 30 days without getting into emt:rgl·ncy rations. -AP 
An Israeli bus carrying passengers was hijacked Thursday night hy terrorists, sourl·es said. The passengers were heing held as hostages near the town of Rafah. 60 miles south ofTel Aviv near the Egyptian border, the sources said. -AP 
Of Interest 
A public auction will he held tomorrow afternoon by Notrl' Dame security. The auction will take place at Gate I I of the stadium and will hegin at I ::\0. Bicycles, calculators and other mis­cellaneous items that have heen lost or abandoned on campus will hl· sold to the highest hiddl·r. -The Obserf!er 
The Saint Mary's music departmentwill 
sponsor its annual Spring Choral Concert at H p.m. Sunday in the Little Theatre. The Collegiate Choir, a mixed group of 31 women and .21 llll'n, will perform a program that includt:s church anthems, spirituals and a medley from "Godspell." The Women's Choir, which has SS memhns, will offer music from the Renaissance and Roman­tic pl·riods. Thl· group also will perform "Three Folksongs for Woml·n's Choir," by Felix Mendelssohn. The work was recently dis­covned and edited hy Dr. J{aymond Sprague, assistant professor of rnusi<: at Saint Mary's who conducts both choirs. The concert is free and opl·n to all. -The Obserl'er 
The Naval ROTC Unit of Notre Dame will have its second annual Dining-In tonight at 6:30 in the ACC Monogram Room. A Dining-In is a naval tradition that allows a military unit's ollkers and midshipmen to solidify thc:ir unity and enhance com­raderil". The l·n·ning consists ofa formal dinnl·r t(Jllowed by a round of toasts and honors, when: l"tiquette is strictly observed. This year's guest of honor will be Rear Admiral William A. Walsh, USN. Admiral Walsh is a ll)'i'i Notre Dame graduate and was commissioned in 
19SS through the NROTC Regular Program at Notre Dame. Current­ly. Admiral \'\'alsh is the dirn:tor of the Surface Warfan· Division within the Oftke of Nav;tl Opnations. -Tbl! Obserr'er 
Richard J. Barnet, author or ninl· hooks including "(ilohal lkach." "Thl· (iiants." "Till" Lean Yl·ars·· and "The Alliance" will hl· speaking at H p.m. Sunday in the Library Auditorium. Barnet, a Senior Fellow at The Institute ti1r Polk')' Sllldies in Washington D.C., willlt-ctllrl· on "A policy in search ofa president: A new approach to 
li.S. ti1rdgn policy." The event is being jointly sponsored hy Student l'nion. (irountl Zero. anti the Center tiJr Social Concerns. -The 
( )/JSI!r/ 11!1" 
Three two-week computer camps will he 
sponsornl hy Notre Dames's College of Arts and Lt:tters this sum­llll"r. The camps will offer an introduction to the Apple Macintosh compura and BASIC programming language. Beginning June IH. .I uly l) andJuly 50, the camps arc tlesignnl for anyone age I2 or older having no previous experience in computing. The cost ofeach camp is S.200. A S I 00 deposit is required by May I. Interested pt·rsons may register in Room 15 7 ofO'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Obserr'er 

Weather 
Who'll stop the rain? cloudy and l"Ooler today with a 60 percent chance of showl·rs. High in the mid 'iOs. A 60 percent chann.· of showers tonight. Cookr with a low ncar 40. Cloudy and nJOI tomorrow with rain likdy. High in the low 'iOs. -AP 

The Observer 
The Obst·rver ( l W' ~'1'1 2 1000 l " puhli!'~hc:d \lund.t~ thnn1)(h hidil\ .tnd on honll' lutllh.tll ~;uurdar'. c.·xu:pt <lurmv,c.·x.oun .tnll \.U.:JIIOil pl:nod~. Tht• Ohst·rver ~~ puhlt~hc:d h~ 1 ht· ''mknt.., c tf llll' l niH·r,ir~ ol Nn1rc· I>Jnh· .. nd ~Jtnl \t.tr~'" ( olh..-~l· ~uh~l r.prion' m.t~ ht· purc.:h.t~nl for S.!~ pn H·ar ( S1.c; pt·r 'l'f11t''ll'"f) hy "nllnJ( The Obsenrer. Po Uox (.). Nuttl' l>aml·.lnc..JianJ .c,.c;.c;c, 
lbc Observer •~ a mt:mhl'rofl'he As· ~dated Press. All rl·production n~tu ... oi rt· rc.-.crn·<J 
Tod~,-·~ hMJ<: was proc.hKl'll hy·. 
/Jesi~-:n l:'tlitor ........ Thoma~ Rohl'rt Small /)t•s(~n A.ssi.'\ltllll . ... Lisa M;trit.• \'isinganli 
l.t~)'ullf Staff...  . ........... Dorothy Doran  
1'J•fJt'S('l/t·rs  .  . ... Vil" Sdulli  
'l'ra~o:)  llrin~anlnt.·r  
Slr•tmllll  .... Slt.'\'l' Foster  
.'it'll'S I:elf/or ...  .Tht.·rl·~a Guarino  
('of'.I' Ftlitor....  .. ................ ,\tan.: Ramirez  

\{mrts Cofn·l:"ditor... .. Ed Konrady Viell'pointl.ayout... .\1kh;td Me<:aught.·~ F!•atures c.upl' l:'ditor .... .. ... ~1ary lkaly Ft•tl/111't'.'i J.ayout...... ... Mary lltaly .V/J /Jtly Ftlitor... ...............Jdlllarrington .IMC /)til' l:"tlii<JI'. .......... Ma11gil' O"Conndl Ad /Je.H)!.Il.. . ...... Boh Slota Phoio}!,t'Cif'bt•r... ... Carol Galt·~ 



Deficits won't give a victory to Democrats in November 
Sky-high budget deficits will be the rallying cry for Democrats, if the party's platform committee listens to Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan. On Monday, the senator from New York called the federal deficit "the social issue of this coming election." 
Social issue or not, the deficit will continue to he lam­basted by more and more Democratic candidates as November nears. But the latest servingofparty political rhetoric smells quite a bit like last month's fare: all fluff and no substance. 
Charles Manatt. chairman of the Democratic Party, gave an indication ofhow little substance the issue will receive with his statements at the Mock Convention last week. Explaining the perils on the horizon, Manatt compared government deficits to those in personal finance, as if the U.S. had a checking account and a dcht limit at the local bank. 
Such comparisons are ludicrous and on Iy serve to deceive voters. Even the connotation of the word "deficit" suggests imminent insolvency, bankruptcy, foreclosure or other fiscal 
In the 
Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 

Inside Friday 

·­
will try to make as much hay as they can from it," says Robert Schmuhl, professor of American studies. But Schmuhl is doubtful the deficit issue will work. "I'm not sure it will have much of an impact on the voters. The president and his supporters will say they arc not responsible for starting it, that it's really an outgrowth of policies that the Democrats created." 
Likewise. he believes Republican Party leaders arc not worried by the prospect of a deficit issue. "Supporters ofRonald Reagan -Senator Paul Laxalt is a 
prime example -say the deficit is so large and the im­plications of the deficit arc so complex that the deficit as an issue doesn't have much meaning." 
Recent history seems to be on Laxalr's side. General themes, such as "honesty" in 1976 and "less government" in 19HO, elected Presidents Carter and Reagan. Other 

covt:r interest. fiMI~ol than Gary Hart's "New 
Deficits arc not necessari­ly had, and indeed if the government were to balance the budget tomor­row, the reduction in spend­ing (or increase in taxes) would be so disastrous as to • cause a major de"pression. It should be remembered that the economy is just coming out of a recession; hence, tax receipts are down and govt:rnment unemployment payments are still high. The impact of recession is great; it may have been responsible for one-halfof the fiscal l9H3 tlet1cit. 
In addition. state and local governments are running a combined surplus of approximatcl)' SSO billion. Therefore, the net deficit is substantially lower. And no matter what you read, the connl·ction he tween interest rates and the budget deficit has not been empirically proven. Some economists even argue there is no con­nection at all. As a graduate student in economics al­ways told his class, "All we can say is that we: cm't really say." 
But in politics, one never says, "We can't say." The Democrats have to do the talking, hecausc all of their campaign bSUl"S are slipping awar with the economic 
recovery. "The Democrats are looking for an issue, and they 

1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND. 234-1031 
130Dixie WaySouth,SouthBend 272·7376 

0,.11: .....fllwn.ll).7,fri.11-1, S.t. ... 
. __ ·--.. ... ne toR -'!'elnn 
Now open Sunday 12·7 


5001-0 OFF ALL ITEMS
7(] IN THE STORE 
Except New Goods: 10% Off These Items 
Saturday, April14 9:00-5:00 p.m. ONLY 
. / . -GOODWILL-Eddy and Howard Streets Across from Nickle's 
fliP: ( Ideas," the Democrats are still searching for that theme that will give them the keys to the White House in November. Says Schmuhl, the key is substance. "It has to be a coherent and developed program that is 
an alternative to the Reagan administration." 
The deficit issue will not provide the Democrats with the substance they need to win the presidency. Their rhetoric, aside from being misleading, will not move the masses to the polling booths. Sen. Moynihan should drop the idl·a of putting budget dd1cits at the fore ofthe fight. Ifthe Democrats really want to defeat Reagan. thl· leaders should nmcentrate on the party's strengths and the Republican's weaknesses. 
The views cxprc:ssed in the Inside column are the vit.·ws of the author, and do not neces­sarily rdlect the views of the editorial hoard or staff. 
.aQSAt \1¥\L 
Restaurant and Cocktail Loung ' Authentic Szechuan and Hunan Tas 
LUNCH SPECIAL Any Combination Plate for only 
l~clu~es rice, soup, egg roll $2bti 
fned nee, entree v and hot tea 



-~-­

The Observer Friday, Aprill3, 1984-page 3 


Challenger astronauts successful in mission 
Associated Press for landing in Florida after one more 


CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -The shuttle astronauts prepared yester­day to come home with an empty cargo bay -a symbol of their twin successes in delivering one satellite to space and repairing another. 
Solar Max, the first satellite to un­dergo surgery in space, was speed­ing along at 17,400 mph in an orbit all its own, apparently fully recovered. Challenger released it at 
4:26 a.m. EST, then flew nearby for eight hours, ready to grab it back just in case. 
"As things look now, the repairs were successful," said Jim Elliott, a spokesman at Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland, which is con­trollng the sun-study satellite and reading its data. 
Landing at Kennedy Space Center was set for 7:09 a.m. EST today, on the shuttle's I06th revolution of 
A view of the Shuttle Challenger from the elbow james van Hoften checks out the maneuvering unit. Earth since launch a week ago yes-
camera, on the Canadian Arm, as mission specialist 
Friday 
saturday Specials 

3-8 pm Happy Hour: Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 D FREE cheese trays Irish Draft Pitchers $2.00 Sign up now!! "Corby Open" Golf Tourney 
----------------------------------------· the 10°/o
Athlete's off your next shoe 



FOOT 

purchase 
Open 10-6 Mon.-Sat. 
with this 
1635 E. Edison 


coupon
(east edge of campus) (through April 28) ".. 

j 
I 

See us for Bookstore Basketball shirts !I 
I 
I 



~------------------------------------· 
277-1875 

terday. There was a second opportunity 
Ir---------------------------------------iATTENTION CLASS OF '87 
I 
I Applications for Sophomore Advisory Council 1 
1 

are available in the Student Activities Office I I until5pm Friday, April13. -I 
1---------------------------------------~ 



Applications for 
ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 

Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
U you have any question. stop by orc:aU 239-7417 and ask for AI. 

Appl'ications Due 
Friday, April13 4:00PM 
orbit, at 8:47a.m., in case ofmorning 
ground fog. That possibility was a 
concern, but Maj. Donald Greene, an 
Air Force weather officer. said "It 
looks like it's going to be really 
nice." A shift in the wind canceled an 
earlier forecast of unacceptable 
clouds. 
Before they went to bed, the 
astronauts were given a report that 
summed up conditions in one 
phrase: "significant problems, 
none." 
"Satellite servicing is something 
that's here to stay," said Commander 
Robert L. Crippen, who will guide 
Challenger down to its second lan­
ding here. "We pick up, repair and 
deliver." 
The delivery part came Saturday, 
when Terry Hart guided the shuttle 
arm to a bus-size satellite in the 
cargo bay and put it overboard for 
retrieval in I 0 months by another 
crew. The 11-ton cylinder holds 57 
experiments that will be exposed to 
micrometeorites, cosmic rays and 
atomic oxygen in studi~ vital to 
building space stations. 
The first attempt at pickup was 
the flight's big disappointment. 
Space walker George Nelson was 
unable to attach a docking device to 
Solar Max to steady it for retrieval by 
the shuttle arm. Nelson's efforts 
started the satellite tumbling wildly, 
but the Goddard engineers were 
able to stabilize it. 
On Tuesday, Crippen guided 
Challenger close to Solar Max and 
Hart, with one stab of the arm, 
locked on and took it into the cargo ·bay. 
Repair day was Wednesday. Nel­
son and James van Hoften replaced · the system that accurately points the satellite's instruments at the sun. They also swapped an electronics unit. 
After more than three years ofcir­
cling the globe as a barely function­
ing satellite, Solar Max was then 
ready to provide valuable informa­
tion on giant solar flares that pour 
torrents of radiation into inter­
planetary space. What scientists 
learn from the satellite may help 
them better understand the sun and 
how it affects weather, radio com­
munications and other conditions 
on Earth. 
"We are confident we will have 
full use of six instruments on board 
and we're hopeful we'll have some 
science from the seventh instru­
ment," said Elliott. That instrument 
was not working when the fuses 
blew on the pointing unit in 1981. 




Correction 
Because of an editing error, the time of "Notre Dame: A Year in Review" was listed incorrectly in yesterday's Observer. The video presentation will be shown April 19 at 2, 3 and 4 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. 
N011ZE~f\lvtE SNNTMAl~tS 


O~CE 

'(HEATKS 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Theatre presents: 
,

La Fllle Mal Gardee { fhe Unchaperoned Daughter) Adapted and choreographed by Debra S. Stohl April 12 13. 14 at 8:00 pm; April 15 at 2:30 pm O'Laughlln Auditorium. Saint Mary's campus ~ Opening Night Two for the price of One Tickets and Information 284-4626 
.. ---..----...... --~ ------. ----~ . -----~ ... ---~ .. ~ ----.. --... -...
... I ~------------------------------------------~­
A DRAMATIC NEW CONCEP IN SUN TANNING! 
Preserve Your Tan 
. ,1M-HAWA1&N 
sun tannirg salon 
2n-1026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 

The Observer Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 4 





Observer announces promotions 
Tht: Nt:ws lkpartmt:nt ofThe Ob­sert'('r has made the following ap­pointmt·nts and promotions. Tom Mowle has ht:en appointed Day Editor Chid and Librarian. Mowle is a sophomort: in the Arts and Letters­Engineering five-year program from Wt:st Lafayt:llt:, Ind. 
Thnt:sa Guarino, a Saint Mary's ~ophomort· Communica­tions/ II istory major from Oak Park, Ill., has bn·n appointt:d ont: of two nt:w Assistant News Editors. (;uarino has st·rvt:d as a memht:r of the nt:ws staff. staff rt:porter, and most recently as a copy t:ditor. Marc Ramirez is tht: otht:r nt:w Assistant News Editor. A junior from Phoenix, Ariz., Ramirez is majoring in American Studies. He has written a biweekly katurt:s column since his freshman year and has worked as a copy t:ditor in both tht: news and sports departments. 

The News Department has promoted four new copy editors. Jane Kravcik, a freshman from Wes­tern Springs, lll. is a Pre-Med major. Kravdk has bet:n a member of The Obsert,(>r'S news staff and a staff rt:porter. Liz Miller, a junior, is majoring in English and lives in Lake Gt:n~va, Wis. Also a freshman, Mark Potter, of Portland, Ore., is enrolkd in the Program of Liberal Studies. He has writtt:n as a news staff member and a staff rt:porter. Julie Smith, a junior from Spokane, Wash. and an 
English major complett:s the copy editing staff. 
Jennifer Biggott, Timothy Gianot­ti, Keith Harrsion, Frank Lipo, John Mennell and John Nehlo have been promott:d to the position of Senior Staff Reporter. 
The following students have all been named as Staff Reporters. They are: John-John Amores, Terry Bland, Paul Cimino, Mary Carol Creadon, Mike Elliot, Anne Gallagher, Joanie Giblin, John Gorla, Barbara Hardin, Terry Haverkamp, Mary Heilman, Erik Hickey, Miriam Hill, Mary Jacoby, John Lavelle, Bud Luepke, Maura Mandyck, John McGreevy, Mike Millen, May Pace, Jim Pernas, Richard Pilger, Mychal Schultz, Rob Siewkiewicz, Jean Steinwachs and Laureen Wolfe. 

Missionaries train at Notre Dame; prepare to work with African poor 
By STEPHEN REIDY 

Neu•sStaff 
Twenty-t1ve nuss10narit:s prepar­ing to st·~e in Africa will desct:nd upon Notn· Damt: ,I une 4 for a four­wet:k intensivt: training program. Tht· .2'; inc.:ludt: priests, nuns, hrothcrs. and lay pt·opk. 

The African lnstitutt·. as tht· program is called, "was startc.·d in 1969 to prepare pt·ople who were.· going to work in African churches. Bd<>rt: that," says government Proft-ssor Dr. Peter Walshe, or­ganizc.·r of tht: I';th Institute, "people had no idt•a of tht: Afriean 
contc.·xt" in  which they  would  he  
working.  
The  Institute  is  only  for  those.·  

going to ~uh-Saharan Afriea. It will tc.·ach tht: participants about the his­tory of lower and tropieal Afriea, the traditional nativt: sodetic:s, and tht: currt:nt c.·conomic and politieal problems. Notre Dame faculty will teach, supplementc.·d by Afriean bis­hops, missionaries and theologians. 
Thc.·rc arc now some 400 alumni ofthe Institute doth:d all ovt:r south­c.·rn and tropical Afriea. according to Walshc. The.· Institute has gainc.·d a national reputation for its SlKc.:css in training missionaries. "In dlect," says Walshc, "wt:'vt· become a train­ing ground ti>r many missionary groups in the.· l lnitt:d Statt:s. Walshc cited the Marists and the Franciscans as two of the largt·r group~. The In-

Exam 
continuedfrom page 1 
Bordli c.·xplainnl the change hy saying "The Fanlfty Senate tt:lt that sint'l' the finalc.·xam is a major part of the.· grade, it should not count t<>r zc.·ro or t1vc.· percc.·nt. A lowc.·r bound­ary was nc.·c.·c.It-d. The upper limit was intended for uppt·r kvd courses be­cau~e of the similarity hc.·twec.·n them and graduate lt-vc.-1 cour~t·s where the final may he the.· main component of the grade." 
Sayre.: said the elimination ofa sc.·n­tc.:nct· spedfying rhar "regardlc.:ss of the.: grade.· on the final examination, an instructor may fail the.: student if the studc.·nt has not completc.·d all the course work" should nor he in­rerprt·ted as raking away that righr. "The sense of the council," he said, "was that instructors obviously have that authority and it's unnt:cessary to say it." 
He.· said the other change, which 

specifit·d thc.:re would ht: only one 
study day before exams, was made.: 
for practical rc.:asons. The addition of 
a second study day, he said, 
"although dt·sirahle, was not suffi­
ciently in demand." 
The Committee.· on Final Examina­

tions was called by the Provost's 
Office. This portion oftht· Academic 
Code has not hn·n changed in over 
I 0 yc.·ars, according to that oftke. 
SVMMIJil STOB.AGI SPAOIJ 
Special discount for •D/IMC studentt (5 x 10 spaces and larger) CALL 259-0335 to USIRVI SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKilfLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 


free... 
DOMINO'S PIZZA ... 
AND 2 FREE COKES 
WITH OUR 
3-0AY MOVIE PACKAGE 
1C 

3-DftX A~9Yst~LA~~Pv~~~~~~~24 95 
TAPE RECORDER AND 3 MOVIES ... ONLY Ahll WEll GIVE YOU ACOUPOM FOR AFREE DOMINO'S PIZZA & 2COKESI 
VIDEO DISC PLAYER 1'1»11 MOVIE/OVERNIGHT 

ICAIIIEO
[~ cusnn:PUYD 
RENTAL SLIGHTLY 


stitute is ecumenical, he added, naming the Mennonites as "one of the Protestant groups we work closely with." 
Although tht: Institute.: enjoys a good reputation, "there are still some things we would like to do," says Walshe. "We're always short of money. We would like to increase the number of scholarships we can offer to Africans." These scholar­ships would enable them to teach in the U.S., sharing their expertise, as well as to study their own society. 


BEA HERO! 
DONATE PLASMA 
YOUR PLASMA WILL BE USED TO MAKE LIFE SAVING DRUGS AND AS A NEW 
DONOR WE WILL PAY ~ 
YOU $12.00 FOR YOUR INITIAL DONATION. JUST BRING THIS AD TO: 


AMERICAN PLASMA 
515 Lincolnway West South Bend 
OPEN 
Tue. 8:00-5:00 Wed. 9:00-5:00 Fri. 9:00-5:00 Sat. 9:00-5:00 

234-6010 
Exp. Date 5/31/84 
~l 
I 
RCA VI'DEO CASSETTE PLAYER 
South Bend North 51400 U.S. 31 N. Cilocktower Square 277-8872 

HIGHER 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS ~ AVAILABLE PLUS ff:2;:-, ~ 100's OF MOVIES ':..z;J 

The Judges Jam Master ofCeremonies Best cultural event on campus highlights Friday Night's session Willis Conover all year 
Featuring 15 excellent collegiate jazz bands andjudges: Dan Morgenstern, Terence Blanchard, Paquito D'Rivera, Joanne Brackeen, Danny Gottlieb, and Dave Holland. 
Friday  April13  7:30PM  
Saturday April14  1:00PM  
Saturday April14  6:30PM  
Stepan Cent.er  

Tickets and T-shirts available at the S~udent Union Record Store 


The Observer 
9" Green Screen 
Software Included: 

Easy to use Keyboard Wordstar Word Processor with numeric keypad Word plus Spelling Proofreader Parallel and 
.Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 5 



Reagan speaks with autoworkers on the recovering U.S. econoiny 

Profitplan Spreadsheet Perfect Writer Word Processor Perfect Speller Perfect Calc Spreadsheet Perfect Filer Database Microsoft Basic 
Serial Interface 


ABSOLUTELY UNBEATABLE 
Many of the several hundred workers gathered at the end of the assembly line to hear Reagan's speech wore blue and white "Mondale" baseball caps that had been handed out earlier at the plant gate by the United Auto Workers. 
Mondale's trip was strictly politi­cal -the Missouri Democratic caucuses are a week away ­whereas the president's trip to Claycomo and Dallas, where he is to visit a housing site today, was billed by the White House as an official visit and therefore paid for by tax­payers and not the Reagan re­election committee. 
But it would be difficult to distinguish Reagan's remarks to the autoworkcrs from those he delivers at political events such as campaign fund-raisers. The nwssage almost al­ways is: the economy is on the mend, and the Reagan program should get the credit for it. 
The Ford plant is not only an ex­ample of increased production and rehiring of laid-off workers that Reagan came to celebrate. It also is representative of an industry whose profits have shot upward in part be­cause it has used computerized robots and imported parts to per­manently trim its workforce in the past six years. 
William Barker, president of the Kansas City local of the llA W and an avowed Mondalc supporter, said about a third of the 2.000 persons who have gone back to work at Claycomo came from a dozen closed or partly idled Ford factories around the country. And the Kansas City plant still has at least 1500 workers on the street, he said. 


Lofts 
continuedfrom page I 
I'm merely saying we're looking at 
the subject." 
Hoemer said he was unaware of 
any loft-rdatcd suits involving Notre 
Dame. 
Father Michael Hcppen, dircnor of Notre Dame student residences. said, 'Tm certainly willing to discuss (lofts) with Dean Roemer. I think our regulations arc rather strict. During the first week (of school), rooms arc inspected by the fire mar­shall." Heppcn has flnal authority in any decision concerning lofts. 
Roemer questioned the safety of 
lofts if a fire should occur. Since 
smoke rises, students in lofts could 
suffer more than those in regular 
beds. Roemer said. 
While the Notre Dame ad­
ministration considers tightening its 
loft policy, officials at Saint Mary's 
are contemplating allowing lofts in 
dorm rooms. Currently, there arc no 
lofts. One of the proposals being 
considered to have the administra­
tion allow students to build lofts on­
ly from kits brought through the 
adminstration. Thus, Saint Mary's 
can maintain a quality control over 
loft construction. 
Jason D. Lindower, Jr., controller 
and business manager at Saint 
Mary's, said, "We're looking for a 
model which satisfies our concerns 
for safety and student's concerns for 
convenience." 
Associated Press 

CLAYCOMO, Mo. -President Reagan told autoworkers at an as­sembly plant yesterday that the economy has recovered and people have gone back to work because "all of us ...have hung tough" and ignored those who said it couldn't be done. 
In remarks after having lunch in the hourly workers' cafeteria and touring the assembly line of a modernized Ford plant in Clay County outside Kansas City, the president said his effort to "rebuild America from the bottom up" hasn't been easy. 
"Times have been rough. and yes, the recession was much deeper and longer than almost anyone predicted," Reagan said. "But these problems had been building up for 20 years, and we were determined to find a real economic cure, not just resort -as they had so often in the past -to another political quick fix." 
And in a jab at his political op­ponents who accuse him ofa lack of compassion. he said, "There's no compassion in snake oil cures. 
"All of us, working together and ignoring the gloomcriers and pun­dits who said it couldn't be done, have hung tough," Reagan added. "Today, as we see the auto industry and the economy humming with ac­tivity, aren't we glad we did?" 
While Reagan visited the Claycomo plant, which the White House had selected as a model of resurgence in the auto industry, the leading Democratic contender for his job, Walter F. Mondalc, toured a Chrysler plant across the state in Fenton. Reagan stopped at that plant a year ago to vie\v the evidence of a recovery that was just then getting under way. 


STARTS FRIDAY AT THEATRES EVERYWHERE 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­




A questionable commencement speaker choice 
Peace Corps Director Loret Ruppe, Father Hes­hurgh's choice as the 1984 commencement speaker, has brought with her a storm of controversy to the federal agency. 
According to The Washington Times, Ruppe: has liberalized the Peace Corps abortion policy while still claiming to be "strongly pro-life." ller spokesmen, however, continue to defend the agency's policy of providing transportation expt·nses for its volunteers st-cking abortions. Since: 1981, the Peace Corps has provided such aid to more than 200 volunteers and has cost taxpayers more: than $300,000. This not only makes her statements hypocritical hut is contrary to the policies ofthe administration that appointed her. 
Though The Washington Times is one of the more conservative newspapers serving the Capitol, it is not alone in criticizing Ruppe. The Washinton Post has rt·ported that she tape-recorded private conversations with her deputy, Edward Curran. Although the incident was reviewed by White: House counsel Fred Fielding and found to he in violation ofagency regulations, it was labeled a personnel dispute and swept under the table by the Reagan administration. 
Many believe Ruppe's problems as Peace Corps director stem from her lack of previous experience in public office. The: wife of Michigan Congressman Philip Ruppe:, Loret Ruppe's limited political experience in­dudes serving as Michigan chairwoman of George Bush's presidential campaign in 1980 and co­chairwoman of the Reagan-Bush presidential campaign after Bush's campaign fizzled. Before this her ex­periences as a Michigan housewife offered her very few administrative opportunities. 
Ruppe is a moderate Republican within a con­servative administration, which indicates that her ap­pointment was merely a reward for her work in the 1980 campaign and not the result ofher party loyalty or her qualifications for the job. 
It is difficult to imagine that Hesburgh was not aware of the controversy surrounding Ruppe in Washington. Being the commencement speaker at Notre Dame may be too great an honor for a person with, at best, ques­tionable administrative abilities and who personifies the patronage politics of the Reagan adminstration, which sacrifice knowledge and experience for cor­diality. 
The graduating seniors should feel cheated by Hes­burgh's choice. Because rumors around campus were predicting many respectable speakers -ranging from Chrysler Chairman of the Board Lee Iaccoca to Pope john Paul II -a controversial Washington politico is a disappointment. In recent years this honor has been be­stowed upon far more worthy recipients, such as Chicago Archbishop joseph Bernadin of Chicago, Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and President Reagan. 
When a poor politician and a worse administrator like Loret Ruppe is chosen as commencement speaker, we must question exactly how much Hesburgh is preserv­ing our integrity as an outstanding Catholic university. 
-The Observer 


The true collegiate stUdent athletes 
Thl· football and haskcthall teams draw a gfl·at deal of publicity. Their members arc rcl·ruitnl vigorously from across the nation and offered lucratin· scholarships to play un· 
Randy Fahs 

Friday analysis 
lil"r thl· (;olucn Doml·. The exploits of thl·sc players arc l'OVl'rnllikc hlankcts hy the media and then hl·amcd ahout the land. 
Thl'Sl' lTkhritics arc the so-called "student athktt·s'' of Notre Daml·. They arc coddkd ;md pampl-rcd so that they can perform at their peak, to hring glory and all-important dollars to N D . 
But what of the "real student athlete"-the Dill'S who hlt'k notoril'ty, fame, and scholar· ships? Thl·y do not hear roaring crowds, in fact, they are lucky if there arc more SPl'C· 
tators than participants at their games and 
matches. 
I had the afternoon free last Wednesday, so at the invitation ofa friend I went to a fastpitch softball game between Notre Dame and St. joseph's College. The stands were empty, but it really did not seem to matter to these girls. They were nor recruited for their throwing arms or their hatting averages. Rather, they were hroughr to N'I?· bcl·ausc of their SAT scores and their contributions to their com­munitks. 
The "rcaJ student athlete'' is a slightly dif­fcn·nt breed from our inccrcollcgiatc superstars. The person who plays at the club or intramural level docs so solely for the love of the game, the thrill ofcompetition, and the desire to he physically fit. No one knows their names yet they continue to play with vigor. There an: no pro contrars or TV interviews waiting for them when they come offthe field. 
I am nor saying that participants in major colkgc sports are nor athletes. They demonstrate great skills in their events, but what I am looking at are the motives behind their participation in athletics. This society is in a great quest for modern day heroes and it deeply admires athletic skill in certain events. Unfortunately, parr ofthe purity and fun is lost when money, glory, and in the case of the Olympic games, international propaganda 

come into the forefront ofthe competition. 
I worry when we speak of our academic credibility with respect ro major college sports. I wonder how many of our athletes would have been accepted to Notre IXJ.me if they were confined to wheelchairs. I also wonder how many athletes across the nation would have gone to different colleges, or maybe no college at all, if they had not been offered scholarships. 
My critics will charge that the football and basketball programs make enough money to support minor sports, and that they attract a great many potential donors to Notre Dame. I do not deny this, in fact I think it proves fur· ther that major sports are little more than a 


P.O.BoxO 
Mondale's assets 
/Jear l:'ditor: 

In response to tht· April ') letter from Yin· l'cnl DeSantis regarding Walter Mondalc's ex· pl·rkncc, I would like 10 make several points. 
First, I ncvl'f said "Experience is his( Waltl'f Mondak's) higgest asst'l." The April 2 Ob· sert'er article in whkh I am quoted features the hcadlinl·, "Mondalc's ExpcricnlT Biggest Asset." This hcaulinc: was chosl·n by The Ob­
sen,er. not hy me. A headline doser 10 my fc:dings would have rt·ad, "Mondale's Ex· pl·ricnn· an Asset in Haec Against Hart and I<Kkson." 
Secondly, Professor DeSantis accuses llll' of assuming that. "There is a nl-ccssary corrcla· tion ht·twn·n political cxpt·rkncc in the na· tiona! arena and presidential success." On the contrary. I do not believe that experience is essl·nrial li1r Mll'l'CSs, hut I do contend that past politkal cxpniencc is one of many legitimate and important criteria in the selcc· tion ofa presidl·ntial nominee. 
During the M<ll'k Convention campaign, Walter Monllalc's experience his record and 
past accomplishments as a U.S. senator and as vice-president were touted by my committee as one way 10 illuminate the differences be­tween Mondale and his Democratic conten­ders. In the interview, the only rime I was quoted using the word "experience" was after hl'ing asked how 1 planned to differentiate Mondale from Hart. 
While tht· Mondale campaign often cited cxperil'ncc as a tTiterion in the sdcction of a candidate, a potential nominee cannot and should nor he judged on this basis alone. 
Character, issue positions and a vision for the future art· all vital in evaluating a can· didalt'. Based on these criteria and others, it remains my belief that Walter Mondale is the hcst candidate for the Democratic presiden­tial nomination. 
Mike Brogioli Mondale Campus Campaign Chairman 


Space ignored 
DearEditor: 
It has come to our attention that the Notre Dame Mock Convention's platform failed to 


The Observer_ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
include a policy concerning space develop­ment. In the interest ofstudent awareness, we propose the following policies as a focus for discussion. 
Space research has produced many con­crete benefits. The pictures relayed by Voyager have revolutionized the planetary sciences. NASA's research programs have also fostered many of the current "high tech" in­dustries. Solar energy research received a tremendous boost from NASA's research on photovoltic cells. NASA's research on the min­iaturization of computer circuits revolutionized the computer industry. Space exploration was the prime motivating factor behind this research. To maintain this pace of development the U.S. should revive the Galileo and Haley's comer missions and con­
struct a permanent, manned space station for use as a platform for interplanetary explora­tion. 
lnd•Jstries involved in space exploitation incur great expenses. The U.S. Government should institute tax incentives for industries researching semiconductors, pharmaceuti· cals, composite materials and all other space· related industrial research and development. The government should support consortiums 
Editorial Board 
Editor·in·Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor............ Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor .............. Mary Healy Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 
business -even here, beneath the shadow of 
the Golden Dome. 
I am nor suggesting that we demolish the stadium or turn the ACC into a permanent truck and RV show (C."Ven though it might become Hoosier Heaven). Sports on the major college level serve the purposes of raising money and generating campus unity. 
What 1am doing is cririzing the fact that, in many instances, athletics has lost its simplicity. But, purity ofsport still exists at the cluh and intramural levels, or anywhere for that matter where people participate in ath­letics simply for the joy ofit, not for some type of materialistic gain. 
It is impossible to equate athletics with dol· Iars and cents without bastardizing its true nature. For true athletes everywhere and for those softball playing girls who don't even have a field ro play on at Notre Dame: You demonstrate what sport truly is everytime you take the field. It is refreshing ro see and I salute you. 
for the development of projects roo ex­pensive for single companies to pursue. NASA would then be able to utilize its unique talents to advise these research consortiums. 
The United States can also solve its energy shortage by exploiting the vast energy reserves in outer space. The U.S. should sup­port utilities in the construction of the SPS, a va-;r array of solar panels in earth orbit. This system can rake full advantage ofsolar energy (which is four times as intensive in space), and then beam this energy to earth via a microwave generator or high-powered la<;cr. 
Space also has a vast amount of material resources. U.S. should construct a permanent lunar base to exploit the moon's metals through an extensive mining program. These metals could then be transported to earth or space-based industries. 
Space offers many unique opportunities for the enhancement of our national security. Such opportunities include a space-based ABM system. The ll.S. should support Colonel Daniel Graham's High Frontier in all its aspects, and begin construction ofsuch a sys­tem immediately. 
Paul Wilkins & Mike Traynor The L-5 Society 


Department Managers 
Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Controller ................ Maripat Horne Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3, 1966 





Showcase 
Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 7 
Comedy on the court -the Trotters at ND 
crowd, Curly the sentimental Playing the role ofthe "Good 
they fell to the NewJersey Reds,

favorite. Humor Man," Geese removed a tray
by Jeff Blumb 
I00-99, to end a streak of 2,49SGeese had everyone in stitches ofice cream cones from the hand of 
straight wins.

features staff writer 
moments after the game had begun a man heading back to his seat with Last night's game dosed with 
when, upon seeing a little boy run­the refreshments, promptly dis­Geese dunking the ball while atop
T
hey may have never won an NBA tune of-what else but "Sweet ning courtside toward the exit, the bucket supposedly full ofwater, but the shoulders of another Trotter. 
championship but the Harlem Georgia Brown." The routine, which aging 44-year-old Ausby promptly finds that when the contents are Considering the relation between 
Globetrotters are synonimous with has five Trotters in a circle exhibit­yelled at the youngster to go back to directed toward it, only confetti Ausby and the Globetrotters, the basketball just the same. For nearly ing the famed passing and ball han­his seat. The boy immediately about­comes out. 
night couldn't have ended in more 

60 years now, the Trotters have dling skills of the Globetrotters, got faced and went running back to his Larry "Gator" Rivers now does the fitting fashion. 
delighted more than 100 million everyone more than primed for the parents. sliding, showstopping dribbling people in 101 different countries game. with their unique brand of basket­All the usual characters were ball, in the process becoming as All­there. The Washington Generals­American as apple pie. the Globetrotters' long-standing 
The"Magicians of Basketball" patsy. Bruce Briggs-the fat refwho brought their travelling road show is the butt of many Trotter pranks. to the ACC last night for a basketball Curly Neal and "Geese" Ausby ­game, which, by the time it got un­the most well-known ofthe derway, had become second fiddle Globetrotters and the only two left to the renowned antics of the Trot­from the famous Abe Saperstein ters. Undoubtedly, the Trotters' teams ofthe mid-1940's through the combined display of basketball mid-1960's. Dribbling ace Marques talent and comic reliefbrought back Haynes has long since left to form his childhood memories for many ofthe own team, the Harlem Wizards, and adults in attendance, at the same former cut-up Meadowlark Lemon time creating new memories for all has departed to start up The Buck­
the children present. eteers. 
Before beginning their 16,060th game in this their S8th y~ar ofexist­Neal and Ausby, better referred to ence, the Trotters warmed up the just as Curly and Geese, ofcourse crowd ofabout S,OOO with their are the stars of the show. Geese is famed Magic Circle routine to the the one who gets involved with the 
tributing the cones to other players once done by Neal, as Curly is less 
and some members of the audience. involved in the actual show itself. Other Ausby stunts during the night Others, such as "Sweet Lou" Dunbar, included a plethora ofabusive are also stepping more and more in­dialogue with referee Briggs, as­to the Trotter limelight. Dunbar. in sorted actions to distract General fact, had one ofthe more memorable 
players at the free throw line, and an dialogues with referee Briggs last impromptu dance with an older night. woman from the crowd. While singing Fats Domino's 
Neal, 41, knows he and Ausby will "Blueberry Hill" into a microphone soon be leaving the Globetrotters. abruptly borrowed from the P.A. an­Perhaps for this reason, many ofthe nouncer, Dunbar was interrupted by 
younger, lesser-known Trotters are Briggs' charge that, "Hey, you're nut 
now getting involved in many ofthe Fats Domino." Du11bar's response to team's more famous gags. Osborne the grossly overweight official, "No, Lockhart last night pulled off but you're about two or three of probably the Trotters' most well­him," had the crowd rolling in its known gag, the water bucket trick. seats. This, ofcourse, is the one where the Truly, the night was one offine en­crowd believes it will be drenched tertainment. The game itself! Oh, 
as the players run around with a yeall. The ·Trotters bested their foes 
The Observer /Carol Gales from the nation's capitol, 89-76. No one, ofcourse, had expected to be the game's result to be any other 
way, as the Globetrotters have not lost a game since jan. 5, 1971, when·
Excellence contes to play 


at 1984 Jazz Fest 
and 6:30, also at Stepan Center. In
Kevin Williams addition, the CJF High School Divi­
sion takes place at Clay High School
features staff writer 
T
from 8:30a.m. to 4:30p.m. The high school division promises to be as he 26th annual Collegiate jazz will once again be master of well-represented as its collegiate Festival, the oldest in America, ceremonies. Judging for the festival counterpart, with high schools from gets under way tonight with yet an­this year will be drummer Danny Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, and other outstanding array oftalent. Gottlieb, trumpeter Terrance New York represented. 
This year's festival brings together Blanchard, bass fiddler Dave Hoi-The Collegiate Jazz Festival has many of the best college jazz bands land, joanne Brackeen, Paquito taken on a new look in recent years. in the country and some of the top D'Rivera and -returning for his fif-At its inception, the festival was professionals in the jazz industry. teenth Collegiate jazz Festival-designed as a competition, with 
Tonight's show opens at 7:30 Dan Morgenstern. prizes donated by area instrument 
when the Notre Dame jazz En­Festival Director for the 1984 CJF manufacturers. Lately, the emphasis semble, directed by Fr. George is john Garvey, a music professor at has been switched to participation, "Jazz" Wiskirchcn, takes the stage. the University ofIllinois. Garvey with "Outstanding Performance" 
The evening's performances by brings to the festival a wealth of plaques being awarded to three big the Fredonia jazz Quintet, the Mass­· 1 · 1 t bands and three combos. In addi­
mus•ca expenence t 1a goes achusetts Institute ofTechnology beyond jazz. He recently returned to tion, the judges will award Ensemble, the Kevin Gainer Quartet Illinois from a sabbatical in Bali, "Outstap.ding Instrumentalist" cer­and the Fredoniajazz Ensemble will mherp hp was learn1·ng to play tificates at their own discretion. 
~ ~ ~ ­climax with the traditional "Judges' Balinese music. He founded both the Collegiate Jazz Festival chairman Jam." UI Chamber.Orch~«ra and-the Rus-Bob O'Donnell and his staff-Bob 
~ """""" 

This year's judges bring with them sian Folk Orchestra, and he still con-Weber, Laura Hamilton, Scott experience from all across the broad ducts the latter. He will be directing O'Grady, Sandy Pancoe, John spectrum of jazz. Willis Conover -thp un1·versity ofillinoisJazz Band Cerabino and Kevin Peartree­
~ 
jazz broadcaster, concert producer, this weekend. have put together what promises to 

'Fools'-a fairytale farce 


by Mary Jacoby 
features staff writer 
'por those peopk in the world 

possessing a singular obtuseness of mind commonly recognized as stupidity, life can be tairly difficult. Such unfortunates arc a rather pitiful sort. Ideas and directions slosh around enough inside their minds to 
cause the annoying discomhlrt of 
thought, but nothing ever jells into 
rudimentary common sense. 
Neil Simon's fairy-tale farce 

"Fools," which will be presented 
this weekend by St. Ed's Hall, turns 
h" h . . k d
t IS t eme mto as1apstte · come: y. A small Russian village has suppos­h
scdly been cursed wit chronic stupidity for over 200 years. People sweep dust back into their houses lk d d d
and mi cows upsi c own in or cr to get more cream. 
In desperation, the townspeople hire Leon Tokhinsky as.a school­teacha, in hopes that he will he able to break the curse. Lnm, unaware of what he's getting into, soon finds out that ifhe can't dispel the curse with­in 24 hours, he also is doomed to 
dullness. 
Ofcourse, Leon is not free to leave 
the village because he has fallen in love with the beautiful daughter of the town doctor. The plot thickens 
as Simon attempts to show it is not a curse responsible for the "d d ·d· h h
WI csprea stup1 lty, ut rat er t11c people themselves who have not bepn tn.··ng to learn. 
~ . , 1 "Fools" will be presented by St. Ed's Friday and Saturday nights at 8 · w• h Hall Ad
p.m. 111 was ington . mission 
.s ~I.
1" 

narrator, writer, and educator~ · Tomoh'ow"s sllo'Ws start·at 1~00 ··~-be mother exeellent-fesrival:···· ~"-•·"''·'-t:.::'·:.::·-::·:.:·:.:··,:,;··::.-·::.·::.··.:.:··.;:'·.;:··:;;;···:..··:..·:...·:...·....,_.·;,.·...:....:..·•::..:..•.:.•.t.•.:.•.:....:•..:•..:•..:·:..•:..•:.:.•.:.•.::.•,;:,·..:.·..:.·..:•..:•..:•:..·•:;..:..•:.•.:.·.:.·.:.·..:·..;·..;·..;·...;·'--"..._ 

Showcase Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 8 
--------------.··-·------·--------~-----·---.. -~----­


From Alumni to Zahrn-

You know the feeling_ .. that late-night craving that can only he satified by biting into a thkk golden crust, loaded down with plenty ofmeaty sausage and pepperoni, COVl'red with a layer ofthick tasty cheest.· and drowning in a st.·a of tangy tomato sauce. 
Pizza. Immediately. 

lnt.·vitahly, it leads to a march down the stairs to the hall foodsales opt.·ration to sample the campus c:quivalent of the delicacy descriht.·d above. 
Foodsales pizza was in the headlines in December, when tht.• University dosed down the in-dorm, student-run operations because ofsanitation violations. Many ofthe violations were related to the pizza ovens used in most dorms. The violations were quickly corrected and !i)()dsales reopened, subject to stricter health standards. 
The OhsenJer Showcase department decided to tlnd out exactly how good campus pizza rt.·ally is since foodsales were forced to clean up thdr act. Six eager pizza critics set out in search of the perfect pizza. The s!lllft:d participants in this feat were Keith Pkher, Margaret Fosmoc, Tom Mowle, Mary llealy, Mark Worscht.·h and Sarah Hamilton. 
Each pizza was judged on a S-point scale in each of the tiJIIowing categories: crust, sauce, topping and cheese. The results are listed hc:low. 
Due to financial constraints, only one trip to each hall was possible. Therefore, any given foodsaks may produce a betteror worse pizza on any given night. Comments about service, atmosphere or the size ofthe foodsales opera­tion may he included, but these factors did not affect the pizza rating. 
The prices listed arc for plain cheese pizza. There is a varying charge in each dorm for ad­ditional toppings. 
You don't have to accept our judgement. But if you choose to go blindly in search ofthe ultimate campus pizza and wind up with a dud instead, don't say we didn't warn you. 
Bon apetit! 

Stanford 


This could he considered the bourgeois of campus pizzas. A Stanford pizza is definitely palatable, yet certainly n<1thing to arrange a road-trip for. The sausage is sapid and generously sprinkled. The t.·hccsc is slightly better than other pizzas ofsimilar quality; the sauce is average. The crust is the low-point of this pizza -it was overcookt.-d and tasteless. Fair is the most honest way ofdescribing this pizza. The food sales are spacious and there is adequate sodal space is nearby. Be prcpan:d to wait a while for your order. Hours: Sun.­Thurs. 9:30-12, Fri.-Sat. 10:30 to 1 a.m. Price: large, $3.25; medium, $2.50; small, $1.80; slice, $.40. 
This pre-packaged stuff-and the self-serve ·microwave -belongs in a 7-1 I, not a dorm. 
The sparse sprinkles ofcheese, the four pieces 
ofpepperoni (five ifyou're lucky), the spongy 
crust and the lack ofsauce: combine to make a 
pizza that would embarrass even a third­generation Italian. But pre-packaged food doesn't mean cleanliness -tht.· adjoining TV room looked like a rodent feeding ground, popcorn and chips littering the carpeted tloor. Hours: 10-12 every day. Price: small 
only, $1. 


Sorin 


Sorin Hall pizza is among the best on campus. In fact, it is hard to believe that it is a hall pizza. Their thick-crust pizza is covered with a much tastier sausage than the average dorm pizza. The rather sweet saLK't.' and better than average cheese art.· worthy ofa legitimate pizzaria. The one thing which marks Sorin as a dorm foodsales is the total lack ofdining ar­rangements. Sun.-Thurs. 10:30-12. Price: 




Rating the campu~
.. 
Lewis 

Lewis I:!all pizza transcends the rating scale. The kitchen is very undcan, so it is clear how the pizza gets its taste. On the way up in the elevator to the lounge (there is no place to eat ncar the foodsales ), we thought the carpet smelled as if someone had very recently been 
ill. It was with heavy stomachs that we realized the odor came from the pizza. The crust is not cooked well, the cheese is blotchy and the toppings appear moldy. The sauce seems all right, hut considering everything else, it is hard to he sure. In short, it's no won­der the University dosed down the foodsales on campus, if they tasted a Lewis pizza. Hours: Mon.-Sun. 9:30-12. Price: large, $3; medium, $2; small, $1. 

HolyCross 

What Holy Cross pizza lacks in quality is made up for in the dining arrangements, which includes booths and barstools. The sausage topping, unlike most, has a taste that stands out from the cheese and sauce, both of which are plentiful and tasty. The ovens are located in a back kitchen, which makes for a pleasant dining atmosphere. Hours: Sun.­Thurs. 9-12, Fri.-Sat. 11-1. Price: whole, $4.25; half, $2.25. 


Keenan" 
Keenan's new highly-touted "deep-dish" pizza, although a fair deal, is nothing to write home about. The ready-made crust does rise to heights that are virtually unknown on the rest ofcampus, hut it might rise even higher if it were cooked as long as it should be. The crust is left white and doughy. The pizza, like many on campus, suffers from a shortage of sauce. The sausage, on the other hand, is a little too prominent. In fact, diners may note that because ofthe excess ofcrumbly sausage, the pizza closely resembles a coffee cake. Keenan's regular pizza, cooked for the same amount of time, might be a better option. Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 9:30-12:30, Fri.-Sat. 
10:30 to 12:30. Price: large, $3.90; medium, $2.40; small, $1.75. 
, 


Dillon 

Voila! A Dorm foodsales docs know how to make pizza after all! Big Red would make Luigi proud. Dillon is one of the few foodsales that spreads enough sauce on its pizza. Best ofall, this pie ha'i flavor. The crust is tasty and baked just right. A bit more sausage wouldn't hurt, nor would a little more time in the oven, but these are not complaints, just suggestions for perfection. Acarpett:d side room with video games, two tables covered with checkered tablecloths, music, and a varied menu make this foodsales the culinary showplace ofSouth Quad. Hours: 9-12 every day. Price: large, $3.60; small, $2.50. 

Walsh 

Head for the vending machines! The "pizza muffins" designed to fill the pizza void in Walsh Hall tend to have the opposite effect. A Walsh pizza muffin consists ofa soggy English muffin spread with a little soupy tomato sauce under hacked pieces offoul-tasting cheese. No toppings are available. And to round off their eating experience, victims get to cook 
the things themselves-in a slow-heatingan­tiquated toaster oven. Ifthe muffins aren't enough to drive you away, the dismal uninvit­ing atmosphere ofthe foodsales area certainly will. Note: Bring your own napkins and plenty ofchange; they have neither. Hours: Sun.­Thurs. 10 to 12. Price: pizza muffin, $.50. 

Badin 


Badin Hall does not (and cannot) try to compete with other dorm pizzas. Frozen and pre-packaged, a few minutes ofmicrowaving by the salesperson turns the pizza into a scald­ing, sloppy mess. No toppings available. Its thin crust, patchy ch•eese and nondescript sauce make a Badin pizza definitely not worth leaving your dorm for -that is, unless you live in Badin. Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 9-11:30, Fri. 11:30-1. Price $1. 

Howard 


Here's vending machine pizza at its worst. 


Leprechaun 
Oh, ifwe could only get pizza like this in the dining halls. NO Food Services' creation puts much of the other campus fare to shame, but then again, it should, considering the extra cost -almost 52 more than Flanner. Well­browned cheese floating on a sea of tangy tomato sauce gives this 'za oursecond-highest rating. Drawbacks are the wafer-like crust and the sparse toppings. Leprechan pizza is sold both at the Oak Room Cafeteria and The Huddle. True pizza fans will opt for the Oak Room, since it's the closest thing to a real res­taurant on campus. The table candles, table cloths and serene setting make for finer dining than your usual basement establishment. If this place had a beer license, it would be a campus smash. Oh, well. Hours: (Oak Room, 239-7518) Sun.-Thurs., 9 p.m. to midnight; Fri.-Sat., 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. (The Huddle, 239-7157) Seven days, 4 p.m. to 
12:30 a.m. Price: (both locations) extra large only, $6.80; slice, $.90. Free 
delivery. 


Flanne1 

The hasemel phere ofa DaiJ doesn't seem 11 video games 01 already-thin d leaving a lump dog just aboul sauce was appl amounts ofsau Uneven cooki1 Flanner might/ t:xaminc a rad tion. Hours: S 
Also Sat. andi large, $4.90; Phone: 283-f 
-, 


A dining sensation 




Showc·:tse 
•


ptzza 
.. , 

Pangborn 


This pizza is definitely worth going a little offthe beaten path for. It is bound to tempt the palate of many campus pizza-seekers. The sauce is fair, but a little sparce. The crust rates about average with other campus pizzas. The tasty cheese and flavorful topping, however, are both first-rate. Together they form a late­night dining experience that is a little better than the average dorm food sales can offer. An 

Grace
extra incentive is the speedy preparation ( 2 to 3 minutes) ofone's order in an up-to-date and Not only is a Grace pizza a good sound well-lit food sales area. A nearby tv and game choice, but Grace foodsales, otherwise know room provides a comfortable place to enjoy as Sarge's, is the nearest thing to your comer one's snack. Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 10:30 to grocery store. The largest foodsales on 12, Fri.-Sat. 12 to 2 a.m. Price: whole, campus, Sarge's is a good place to go when the $3.75; slice, $.60. late-night munchie cravings come on and The 
Huddle is closed. As for the pizza, its thick 
..__,.,----·-··crust supports a very inviting eating experience. The sausage is flavorful and generously spread. The sauce is tasty, but in rather short supply. The cheese, rather bland, rates slightly lower than the other com­ponents of this pizza. The large, carpeted, nicely-lit eating area, complete with booths, juke box and wide-screen TV, makes Grace perhaps the most pleasant dining experience to be found on campus. Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 7:30-12, Fri. and Sat. 8-1. Price: small, $1.85; large, $2.70. 

Cavanaugh 


Ifonly the Naugh's pizza were asgood as its crust. Cavanaugh seems to have raised baking pizza crust to an art. The edges are crunchy; the center is tender without being flimsy or bread-like. This pizza is no more generous"' with its sauce or spices than most hall foodsales. The cheese was obviously cooked and not merely melted (a plus), but still it lacked that appetizing golden tone. The sausage was crumbled too small, but liberally distributed on the pie. Parked in a comer in the basement of the dorm, Cavanaugh foodsales does not exactly entice people with its aesthetic atmosphere, but pizza can be or­dered ahead by calling 283-4729. Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 10-12 Price: large, $3.20; small, $1.70. 
of Flanner has the atmos­Queen. The pizza, however, benefit from the VCR, the 
the ping-pong tables. An disappears in the center, ofgooey cheese that would 

Zahm
anyone's pipes. The tomato sparingly, but generous Zahm pizza is like Russian Roulette: the provided compensation. more you have, the less you enjoy it, due, at 


also hurt Hanner's creation. least in part, to the sauce and filling crust. It is worth a visit, however, to also difficult to get -in four trips, pizza was extensive foodsales opera-being sold only once, despite the posted 
Thurs. 7-12, Fri.-Sat. 7-2. hours. The cheese and topping arc very plain 1 to 4 p.m. Price: extra and less than memorable. Sun. 10:30-12, $3.35; small, $2.30. Mon.-Thurs. 9:30-12; Fri.-Sat. 10:30-1. Price: "\\hole, $2.90; slice, $.55. 

rating systent 
.·~ 



•timulating incredibly not fit for 
Life-threatening

snack average humans 


Pasquerilla East 
Pasquerilla East pizza-bagels are not even recommended by the hall's own food sales­man -he suggests going to Grace ifyou want pizza. The pizza-bagels are okay for what they are, but not as pizza. The sauce is soupy, and the cheese only hides the sauce. No toppings. Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 8:30-12:30, Fri.-Sat. 9:30-1:30. Price: Two bagel-halves, $1. 

Alumni 


Alumni's foodsales pizza should qualify as the eighth wonder ofthe world, since it's a wonder that anyone can eat it. The crust on this pizza is magnificent. The chefs have ac­hieved the perfect crispness at the edges and tenderness at the center, Obviously, the crust is Alumni foodsales' piece de resistence. The rest ofthe pizza is a lot easier to resist, probab­ly because it is so difficult to eat. There is a lot ofcheese on each pizza, but for some un­known reason it tends to run to the center. (Strange cheese indeed!) Nor is the cheese cooked long enough. This, added to the fact that there is not much sauce and only an average amount ofsausage, explains why it is so difficult to eat Alumni's pizza. Hours: Sun. 8-10:30 p.m., Mon.-Thurs. 7-12, Fri.-Sat. 10-1. Price: large, $3.25; small, $1.75. Phone: 283-3906. 

Farley 


Farley pizza is a campus connoisseur's delight. A delicious first-rate product is created in the rather modest, foodsales tucked away in the basement ofthe hall. While a few other dorms have better sausage, the pizza of Farley is blessed with delicious, abundant cheese and (a rarity) plenry oftomatoey sauce. And underneath it all is a thick tasty golden crust. True pizza enthusiasts will plan a visit to Farley soon. Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 9­12, Fri. and Sat. 7-9. Small, $2; Large, $3. 

Carroll 


Every Domer should make the long trek to Carroll Hall foodsales at least once, as much for the tasty pizza as for the friendly, homey at­mosphere. Carroll's product is thick and gooey, with plenty ofeverythingfrom crust to topping. The crust is doughy and not cooked quite enough, but much thicker than most. There is enough tomato sauce, for a change, and cheese is heaped on top ofit. The cheese also suffers from being a little underdone, but is nice and stretchy the way some like it. The sausage, though there is plenty ofit, is of average taste. For entertainment while you wait ( 5-l0 minutes), there are video games0 pinball, and foosballlocated next to the foodsales. Hours: 9-1 every day. Price: whole, $3; h3lf, $1.75. 
Friday, April13, 1984-page 9 

Though it lacks a distinctive sauce, there  
arc few drawbacks to a BP pizza. Its crust is  
crispy, but not burned. The granular sausage  
topping resembles most sausage on campus.  
In general, this pizza would seem very ordi­ 
nary, but when compared to some of the  
others on campus, 8-P's product is very good.  
The only place to eat in the hall is in the study  
lounges, and service is a little slow. Hours: 9­ 
12:15 every day, Sun 1-3 p.m. Price:  
whole, $2.70; half, $1.50; pizza bagel,  .,  
$.80.  I  
Pasquerilla  
West  
Ohe ofthe spicier pizzas around may be had  

at PW's 1st floor eatery. But that zippy sauce couldn't quite make up for a doughy crust and less-than-usual applications ofcheese and sausage. PW's unique economical individual pizzas are recommended only ifyou can'tfmd anyone to split a larger one with. The sterile, closet-like atmosphere suffers from a lack of music, although two tables and a microwave oven were are amenities. Hours: Sun.­Thurs. 9-12, Fri.-Sat. 9-1. Price: large, $2.75; individual-size, $.65. Phone: 283­GRIF. 


Morrissey 


What was Domino's phone number? Mor­rissey residents should commit it to memory. You'd think "The Manor" would have pizza fit for nobility, but pre-packaged pizza is strictly for the peasantry. It takes a special talent to bum pizza crust and still retain its flimsy quality. Contrary to the practice of M>rris­sey's pizza chefs, cheese melted in a microwave oven should be put in a fondue pot, not on a pizza. Morrissey redeems itselfto an extent by pouringlotsofsausage onto each pie. Yet this could be just to hide the sauce, or lack thereof. The scarcity ofsauce explains the overall bland taste: ifthere is no sauce, there can be no spice. A spacious settingcom­plete with a booth in which to enjoyone's piz­za is available. Whether it is clean or not is debatable. Hours: 9-12 every day. Price: whole, $3.25;half, $1.75. 


Lyons 
This is one of the better pizzas on campus. The sausage is meaty and spread over the entire pizza. Sauce is plentiful and delicious. The cheese is a bit failing -it has a gummy consistency and detracts from the overall flavor. The crust is thick and tasty, and nearly cooked to perfection. Sausage, pepperoni, ex­
tra cheese and mushrooms are available at this well-ordered and efficient food sales. Pleasant social space is which to enjoy one's pizza is located nearby. Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 9­11:30. Price: whole, $3;half, $1.75;slice, 
$.50. 


St. Edward's 

The "bare essentials" attitude ofSaint Ed's foodsales permeates the dorm's pizza too. The crust is thin, crispy and tasteless; the sauce watery and unappetizing. Fair-tasting cheese and sausage cannot entirely redeem the quality of this dining fare. Saint Ed's pizza is defmitely not worth traveling great distances for. Hours: Sun.-Thurs.ll-12. Price: large, $2.75; small, $1.85. 

,~., ~-. • ...-• • a .. • w. •-• • ._._ • .. , ._.._._.._-.,.._"'......... ....__.,....._ .... ..,..•••.,-. • ._ ._ ..,., ., ,. • • ,. ,. • • •.,,... __ _ 
I 

Showcase Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 10 
Letters to a lonely God 


A dream of Easter 
smell is showingsigns ofcorruption. 
The monks had expected miracles 
from so holy a priest. They are 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 
scandalized that God has not 
preserved the body. They conclude 
I 
sometimes dream of resurrec­was drowning, his lifc passed before that Father Zossima could not have 
tions. A fisherman dreams of his eyes. He saw himselfat the old been a saint. 
hooking Mohy Dick. A football swimming hole and buying gingham Alyosha, the 13-year-old who is 
player dreams of winning thc Hcis­at the country store. Suddenly he the youngest of the Karamazov 
man trophy. A priest has a dream of realized the life being tlashed was brothers. grieves at the death and 
the resurrection. The pricst, his somebody else's lifc. The dream I decay. He lcaves his monastery, 
friends say, suffers from an ovcr­had of being raised as a soldier from without permission, to seek corrup­
workt:d imagination. Maybe he's the battlefield was somebody else's tion with a woman. Later, full oflove 
• MOVIES Ripped sweat shirts, brcalt dancing, and Irene het:n tripping on the sct:ds of the dream, hl·cause I was never a sol­Cara ...what do these have in common? They were all made popular
for the dead man and still innocent, 
Easter lily. Only a nutty ck-ric has dier. he returns to the chapel where the by "Flashdance." which is the feature tonight and tomorrow night in 
dreams about the waking up of the I have friends who get put out body is kept. The story ofthe mar­the Engineering Auditorium. Showings arc at 7, 9, and II and admis­
dead. when I tell them my dream. They riage feast is being read, and this sion is $1. SO. 
In my dream. I'm on a battlcfield. believe in resurrections, bur they Gospel moves Alyosha with joy at The Friday Night Film Series will present "Love and Anarchy" at 
It's the day aftcr a war in which don't want to know the details. the goodness ofGod and the beauty 7:30 and 9:30. This Italian film with English subtitles tells the story of 
heavy fighting has left dozens of Resurrections bcgin in cemeteries, ofcreation. Under the night sky, an anarchist who arrives in Rome and falls in love with a prostitute in 
bodies torn apart. I'm one of thc vic­and involve the shalting off ofdust with his face pressed to the earth, he a Fascist brothel. 
tims who got hit carly, lcft as a stiff and mold and odors, as the maltes a decision to serve God in the The Monday Night Film Series presentations will begin at 7 with 
ti>r three days. Knowing that I've processes which begin with burial holiness of the world, which is cor­"Tout Va Bien," a study ofthe interaction between a workers' strike 
passed over, hearing the click of the arc revcrscd. They don't want to ruptible, rather than in the monas­in a French f.tctory and the marital relationship ofan American cor­
turnstyle as I turn the corner on life, hear stories that rattle dry bones or tery, where corruption is a scandal. respondent (Jane Fonda) and a French lV producer (Yves Mon­
I'm thinking: "So this is what death is stir up ghosts. Easter gives them a tand). The 9 p.m. feature will he "Tom Jones." Albert Finney stars in
"Lord, will these dry bones live like." I was packed with a group of hope that the grave is not the end. this rollicking adaptation ofitalian Henry Fielding's bawdy 18th­
again?" asked the prophet Ezekiel, black singers in the choir loft of the Colored eggs and jellybeans and God promised him the resurrec­century novel about a young lad who leaves home and wanders Ebenezer Baptist Church, and to tell symbolize their joy without adding toward London. Admission to all Film Series presentations is $2.SO
tion. The New Testament says the the truth, it was crowded and hot. I physical details or imagining a dark trumpet shall sound and the dead and they arc shown in the Annenburg Auditorium. 
had expected heaven to he morc drama of thc earth suddenly moving shall arise. The bodies that were •THEATRE 
Jewish, and I kept waiting for the sin­with life under the headstones. This weekend the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Theatre will
buried corruptible shall rise incor­ging. I wasn't disappointed with the "Lazarus laughed," one of my ruptible. Unless a grain ofwheat, fal­present "La Fillc Mal Gardcc." This season's dance presentation is 
afit:rlift:. however. because I've al­friends said, "after finding out that adapted and choreographed by Debra S. Stahl. It tells the charming
ling into the earth, dies, it will not ways lovl·d the play "The Gret:n death is easy." bring forth new life. comic story ofa rural romance between a young maiden and a poor Pastures." "How do you know~" I asked. "I farmer. Performances will be tonight and tomorrow night at Hand
Ifyou try to picture the resurrec­lkaven turned out to he the heard it in a sermon," he replied. tion harvest in your mind's eye -Sunday at 2::30. For tickets and information call 284-4626. dream within thl-dream; latt:r, I was "There are other opinions," I said. with graves opening for the exit of The Neil Simon play "Fools" will be presented by St. Ed's Hall 
hack on thc battlefield as a casualty. I "In the Greek version, he's like the ghosts, or the sea giving up its dead tonight and tomorrow night in Washington Hall at H. Admission is 
could hear the sounds ofother vic­dead man that tells no tales." My -it gets spooky to think about, like $1. See story at left. 
tims getting up. I realized Ishould he friend shrugged, and I shrugged Another Neil Simon play, "Sunshine Boys," produced by
the Gothic tale of Frankenstein. getting up too. So I stood up and ex­back in a usc ofbody language that Cavanaugh Hall, will be shown in Chautauqua today and Saturday at 
Nobody ever wrote a play claiming 
amined myself and found I was wants to get in the last word. Resur­that Frankenstein laughed. 8 p.m., for free. 
whole again. Thert: were other sol­rections, even when they are ac­It is easier to domesticate the un­• MUSIC 
diers all around me. examining credited, arc indescribable, like the thinkable. Those of us who believe The highly acclaimed Collegiate jazz Festival will take place this 
themselves and finding that they look ofcompassion lighting the weekend in Stepan Center and will feature IS collegiate jazz bands. 
in Christ as the Resurrection and the were wholc. They were laughing Saviour's face. Any other viewpoint Festival performances will be at 7:30 tonight and at 12:30 and 6:30
Life feel at home with something as tomorrow. Tickets and T-shirts are available at the Student Unionand smiling, touching arms and legs is as unreal as the Emerald City of familiar and holy as a wedding feast 
that had het:n blown away in cannon Oz. where the Lord serves the wine. Record Store. 
harragl-s. The gray mists which had On Easter, after hearing about the There is nothing theological On Sunday, the Artist Series will present a performance by 
hung over the landscape like a veil empty tomb, I will read the account Dominic «;:ossa at 4 in the Annenburg. Cossa is "a Baritone with a
about the stuffofmy dreams. There's were burning off under the new sun ofthe marriage feast at Cana. I got sterling voice," according to Winthrop Sargeant ofThe New Yorker.
nothing miraculous about my supp­General admission is $2 for adults and S1 for swdcnts. Admission is ofan April morning. Old veterans the idea ofconnecting the Cana feast ly ofjellybeans, except that there arc 
greeted young veterans with with the resurrection from reading free for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community ifl.D. is presented.
so many, they could be reprod\Jcing plcasurc at being reunited. All ofus Dostoyevsky. In the "Brothers themselves. The Easter bunny keeps Also on Sunday, the Saint Mary's Music department will present a 
moved off that field which had Karamazov," the elder ofthe monas­spring concert featuring the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and Col­
being generous, as though he were belonged to death in the directions tery, Father Zossima, has died. At his catering a party for the sun malting legiate Choir. The concert, under the direction ofRaymond Sprague, 
will begin at 8 in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall.
ofhomes filled with peace. walte, the monks are scandalized love to the earth, waiting like a Woody Allen tells us that when he that the body, judging from the bride. 
•ART 

A public opening reception for the Notre Dame MFA Thesis Art 
Works and Student Show will talte place Sunday from 1-4 in the Snite 
Museum. 
•MASS 

The celebrants for the Masses at Sacred Heart Church this 
weekend will be: 

FatherJames Burtchaell at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil) 


Young love and an unchaperoned daughter 
the developement ofthe situation. 
FatherJoseph Walter at 9 a.m.
by Mary Feider 
Village dancers are used as a living 
Father Theodore Hesburgh at 10:30
features staffwriter backdrop for the show, creating 
Father Mark Poorman at 12:1 5 
interesting space on the stage and 
Y
oung love interrupted by the topher Smith. His moves are smooth physical excitement as they go 
matchmalting plans ofan and robust echoing his spirited through poetic rituals. 
ovcrhl·aring parent is a reccurring youth. Acomic dement was cleverly 
theme throughout many oftoday's The closest thing to perfection on brought about through the usc of 
scenarios. In La Fille Mal Garde the the stage was brought about in the trios. In one instant Lisette and Alain 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Widow Simone (Mary Madeline (Jeffrey Choppin), her arranged 
Tht:atrc has successfully and refresh­Riley). In Act I the Widow Simolne is fiance, are dancing apas de deux 
ingly brought this theme to the a tyrant. During the following act the when Colin joins them in creating a 
()'Laughlin stage. audience cannot help but fall in love humorouspas de trois. 
The love of Lisette (Jennifer Fer­with her as she tlirts with Thomas The costuming helps create a 
rick) and Colin (Christopher Smith) (Paula Ballantine), a wealthy visual unity. The villagers arc 
is innocently playl·d out through the proprietor. The Widow Simone dressed earthy hut not downtrod­
movements ofdance. Lisette's spirit brings comic incentive at her every den and the friends arc colorful yet 
tluctuatt·s throughout the show. Her entrance and the love affair with her never overbearingor too pastel. The 
datH:e is light as she moves through progresses throughout the perfor­use ofbows in the costumes helps 
ha chores. With Colin she is often mance. As successful as the Widow carry an underlying ribbon motif 
dl·mure; hl·r moves subtle and Simonl· character is Riley's inter­throughout the show. Lisette's 
gracdul in a testing, trying manner. pretation ofher. The precision of costume was distinctive enough to 
In conjunction with tht· dancers her dance and tht: expression of her stand out on its own but didn't act as 
who function as her friends, Ferrick gestures show she has indeed a distraction when she danced in a 
proves that she l·an dance in a group captured the spirit of the Widow group, owing to the creative design 
as wdl as a pas de deux. Ferrick Simone. of Linda H. Wigley. 
helps the characterization of Lisette Adding to the effectiveness of the 
dt·vdop through the dance as her On pointe through much of the performance were three sets 
moves mature from lighthearted performance. Lisette's friends move designed by Thomas Lcff. The sets 
dandng to ht:r final dramatic expres­well together as a group. The friends acheived a realistic quality through 
sion oflove for Colin. also help carry the story line as they the efforts ofa guest scene painter, 
Aconsistent characterization ofa act as moderator between Lisette Thomas M. Ryan. 
young man in love is brought about and the Widow Simone. La Fille Mal Gardee is showing 

The Observer I Javier Oliva 

The dancers ofLa Fille Mal Garde
through the subtle mannerisms as Debra S. Stahl was successful in tonight and Saturday night at 8 and 
act out the comedy on the stage ofO'Laughlin.
well as the overt gestures ofChris-choreographing the show to express Sunday at 2:30p.m. in ()'Laughlin. 




Sports Briefs 
The Irish Spring Run a six-mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golf course is tomorrow at 10 a.m. Deadline for entries is today. Registration must be made in person at the NVA office, and a three dollar fee will be charged. Trophies and T-shirts will be awarded. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC skiteamawards banquet wm be held Monday, April 16. Watch for your invitation by mail. For more in­formation, call)ulie Currie at 283-4434.-The Observer 
An NVA GolfReview.featuring golfpro Dick Walker, will be held on April 18 at 4 p.m. on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. This will be a refresher class on the fundamentals of the various golf strokes and is for golfers at all levels who are looking for a short review. The cost is one dollar and registration is through the NVA office. The number there is 239-6100. -The Observer 
The Indianapolis Colts will open their National Football League season at home against the New YorkJets on Sept. 2, a team spokesman announced yesterday. Administrative assistant Pete Ward announced the Colts would be meeting the St. Louis Car­dinals, Buffalo Bills, Washington Redskins, Pittsburgh Steelers, San Diego Chargers, New England Patriots and Miami Dolphins at home. The Colts, who were moved from Baltimore last month, will be playing their home games in the new 61,000-seat S81 million Hoosier Dome scheduled to open next month. The Colts have also scheduled an Aug. 11 pre-season game with the New York Giants at the Hoosier Dome. The team opens its exhibition schedule at Miami on Aug. 4. Other pre-season games are scheduled at Dnever, Aug. 18 and at Green Bay on Aug. 25. After the home opener with the Jets, the Colts travel to Houston for a Sept. 9 game. The Cardinals visit the Hoosier Dome on Sept. 16. Other home dates are Buffalo, Sept. 30; Washington, Oct. 7; Pittsburgh, Oct. 21; San Diego, Nov. 4; New England, Nov. 18; and Miami, Dec. 9. Other road games are Miami, Sept. 23; Philadelphia, Oct. 14; Dallas, Oct. 28; New York jets, Nov. 11; Los Angeles Raiders, Nov. 25; Buffalo, Dec. 2; and New England, Dec. 16. Ward said the club had no information on when tickets for their home schedule would be available. -AP 
Friday, April13, 1984-page 11 
Women's tennis team 

Irish win two, Bowling Green next 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team improved its spring season record to 10-2 as the Irish easily defeated the University of Northern Illinois, 5-2, and Bradley, 8-1, this week before the team departs today for a three-match trip in Bowling Green, Ohio. 
Last night's contest with Northern Illinois at the South Bend Raquet Club was a disappointment for the Irish since the team was unable to complete the competition. Due to a mix-up in court scheduling, the Irish were forced to leave after the team won its fifth match. 
"We were unable to finish our number two and number three doubles matches," said sophomore co-captain Greta Roemer. "It would have been 7-2 if we'd been able to finish since both teams were win­ning." 
There were other surprises in store for the Irish last night when the team was forced to make some last minute changes in its startinglineup. Freshman joanne Biafore sub­stituted for Pam Fichette at number four singles, freshman Tammy Schmidt took Laura Lee's spot at number five singles and Roemer covered Biafore's regular starting position at number six singles. 
Schmidt played well for the squad in her debut appearances for the Irish against Northern Illinois and in the number six singles spot in Wed­nesday's competition against Brad­ley. 
"I'm impressed -she kept her concentration and didn't mess around," said Irish co-captain Lisa LaFratta. "It's nice to know there is someone who can step in and win for us." 
Roemer is also unaccustomed to playing singles and last night was her second appearance in the singles competition for the Irish. Although 

Football 
continuedfrom page 16 
quarterback job are senior Scott Grooms and freshman Joe Felitsky. 
"I'd have to give the edge to Scott Grooms right now just because of experience," says Hudson. "Joe hasn't played the game in about two years because of injuries, but he's improving with each given week." 
Grooms, at 6-2, 197-pounds, returned to Notre Dame from Miami of Ohio and sat out the 1982 cam­paign. After earning the backup spot to Blair Kiel in 1983, his season ended abruptly when he suffered a broken collarbone in the season opener against Purdue. 
The 6-3, 205-pound Felitsky has surmounted a high school knee in­jury and summer intestinal surgery to move himself into contention for the quarterback spot. 
Roemer lost her match, she hung on until the end. 
The Irish will play the Falcons in the first of their three weekend matches this afternoon in Bowling Green. Tommorow, the Irish will begin a doubleheader with an easy match with the University ofCentral Michigan. Later in the afternoon, the Irish will battle the University of Miami (Ohio) who is leading the Mid-America Conference. 
When he was given a clean bill of health near the end of last season, Felitsky got some practice ex­
perience by working with the Irish prep team. An extra year of eligibility is a possibility for Felitsky · since his health problems kept him out of varsity competition for all of 
1983. 
"Joe Felitsky's most valuable asset is his arm," says Hudson. "He's a big man that can throw the ball. The big­gest thing right now is experience. He doesn't have confidence in what he's doing. He doesn't understand everything yet; but he's working at trying to get better at it. It will just take time." 
Under the leadership of Steve Beuerlein, the quarterback situation looks very promising for the Irish. Having two eager backups in Grooms and Felitsky can never hurt. And with plenty of time still ahead for all three, it appears that things can only get better. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge is 10 cents per five charac­


Classifieds 
ters r da . 

FOR SALE 

LADIES ENGAGEMENT RING. .35ct doamond set in 14k gold. Appraied at $1256, woll sell for $400. Call Joe at 1222. 
OOSH'GA'BOOSH-STEVE GUY-IF YOU'RE OYER 6 FEET TALL, UNDER 100 LBS., AND ENJOY SATURDAY NIGKT PUBLIC T.V.: -GALL ME-l AM DESPERATEIIIIIII STEVEN LENTZ 420STEDS 8015 

TICKETS 

NEED GRADUATION TICKETS PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 7781 
HUGE DOMER family wants to see their last son graduate! DESPERATE fortix. $$ Call Paul after Bpm 234-2510. 
Need TICKETS for GRADUATION Call Joel at 1570 
DESPERATELY NEED GRAOUATIION TIX! Can pay $ Please call Greg al3317. 
I need 4 grad tix in a big way Call Larry 1638 
$$$ AND HOTEL RES. TRADE FOR 1 GRAD. TIX. STEVE 277-6055 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL 1695 

NOTICES 

COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE 277~5. WIpod< up & deliver. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082 
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUB!!!'!!! 
Experienced typist will do typing. Call 287-5162. 
TYPING-6 YRS. EXPERIENCE AT NO. MY HOME. 2n-3085. 
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. RESUMES. 272-3827. 
FOOLS FOOLS ST. EDWARDS HALL 
PRESENTS Nell Simons comedy on 
Fnday and Saturday nights in Wahmgton 
HaJI at 8 00 p.m. ONLY $1.00!!! 
REWRITE 
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT AC­TIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS. Bus Transportatoon To O'HARE Cost only $10 Leaving Thursday, April 19th at 12:00 PM SIGN UP NOW AT THE RECORD STORE IN LAFORTUNE 
SLOW DEATH is dead. Long live SCHOLASTIC. HAHAHAHAHAHAHA! 

LOST/FOUND 
FOUND A SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A SNOWBANK BEFORE BREAK I CANT FIGURE IT OUT. YOU TRY. HOW CAN SOMEBODY JUST LEAVE THEIR SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A SNOW­BANK WHEN THEY HAVE TO DRIVE HOME? If youqthink that the dummy might be you. call7559. 
LOST: GOLD NO MEN'S RING. LOST BEFORE BREAK SOMEWHERE ON CAMPUS IT HAS A BLUE STONE WITH NO ENGRAVED ON TOP. MY NAME AND YEAR (85) ARE ENGRAVED INSIDE. THERE IS A LARGE REWARD OFFERED FOR ITS RETURN. IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT MAY BE. PLEASE CALL JEFF O'NEILL AT 8854. 
LOST: Cnizen watch wlgold case & black band on 414 inS Quad ST area. Call7992 after 11. 
LOST: Two tan Jackets at Ranner. Names onside. nfound please contact Mike or 
Mark at 3546. 

LOST KEYS. NEAR THE ACC -RAC­QUETBALL COURTS. PLEASE CALL 153CAVANAUGH-1401 
FOUND: UMBRELLA AT STEPHAN 7 CALL 3329 TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST Between Zahm anlaFortune: a black classic Cross pen In a leather case. Reward. Please call SMC-5448. Thanks! 
LOST monday April 9 between Alumni and Administration Building silver stain­less steel watch wrth day/date and Rolex onsignoa.REWARD call Cart at 1034 
FOUND: A contact lens case after 419 Stepan bookstore games. Call 7559 to claim. · 
lost. blue wallet wnh rainbow trim. keep the sentimental pictures of my troends. JUst return my license!!! 
FOUND MAROON UMBRELLA OUTSIDE ROOM 207 WALSH. COME AND PICK IT UP ANYTIME. 
ad LOST: Gold necklace with diamond pendant. Twenty-first bithday present $$Reward Call Beth 781 3 
LOST:Pair of shiny small Army boots. backstage at ISO Fest. Peg 1314 
.........f.:t'····· 
LOST. Set of keys. I love field Hockey·· key ring. Lost Friday afternoon. Maybe around Morrisey. If find, please call 8118 and ask for Margaret. 
FOUND: A BLACK JERUSALEM BIBLE IN O"SHAG ASK FOR THE NIGHT JANITOR FOR INFO. 
FOUND -BASKETBALL BEHIND BOOKSTORE ON FRIDAY APRIL 6. CLAIM AT LOST & FOUND IN AD. 
BLDG. 
NOW THAT WINTER IS OVER. WILL THE PERSON WHO SWITCHED BLUE DOWN COATS WITH ME LAST JANUARY AT SENIOR BAR PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL NO QUESTIONS ASKED. YOU KNOW WHO I AM. MY NAME IS IN THERE. 


FOR RENT 
HOUSES-Furnished 1 mile tram campus 4-6 bedrooms. 2 baths Call277·3461 
FOR RENT. 2bednn. TURTLECREEK APT. FURNISHED at NO COST CALL SANDY or USA 277-8497 

~..--_w_A_NT_Eo_-.~1 
RIDERS NEEDED to NEWARK. NEW JERSEY.leaving South Bend Friday April 13and returning Monday morning. Even it you only wanl to go part way' cal 485­3948 after 9 pm and ask for Cheryl. 
WANTED 2 FEMALE ROOMMATES FOR SUMMER AND/ OR NEXT YEAR AT N.D. APT. CALL234-1170 
I NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE· SCRANTON-PHILA. AREA FOR EAS­TER CAN LEAVE 4116 CALL MARK 234-2252 
Ride needed to CENTRAL MICHIGAN AREA for Easter Break. Can leave Wednesday night. Please call Maggie 284-5091 
Roders needed to Ct. for Easter call Janone 284-4292 
PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239· 5313 OR 277-4851. 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 or 277·4851. 
Pennanent Part-time Help Wanted. Ap· plications now being taken. No phone calls please. Pandoras Books 937 South Bend Ave. 
Need ride to CHICAGO for Easter Can leave 4/1 B(PM) Cynth 6946 

NEED RIDE to CONNECTICUT for EAS­TER please call PAT at 8423 
need riders to philadelphia for easter: leave wednesday morn: 277·6250: chris 
NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON FOR EAS­TER. CALL STEVE AT BIOS. 
RIDE NEEDED to CTINYC for Easter. Eileen 277-1325. 
Need ride to SYRACUSE Area for Easter. Call8017 
RIDERS NEEDED TO WIS FOR EAS­TER, LEAVING WED PM CALL STEVE 8896 
Need ride to MLP/ST.PAUL for Easter break! Will happily share expenses. CALL NANCY2722. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DC AREA FOR EASTER.CALL MARK 8853 
TEXAS BOUND? I'm gonna be heading to Houston on the Monday after gradua· tion (May 21) and I need a rider. The cars not huge (a Honda). so plan to leave your baby grand piano here. Also. chain smokers need not apply. Call Mark at 8765. 

IL..__P_ER_so_N_A_L_s_J 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM U.S. 31 N , ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELLYGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK! PH. 272-1858 
Need a place to stay this summer? Want to sublet a 2 bedroom townhouse apart­ment. t 2 or 3 tenants. Within walking dis­tance of campus. Semi-furnished. $250/month wrthout utililies (negoloable) Call283-1479. 
QUEST10N7 ff you don·t go to the lecture on Sunday. will you live to regret it? 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED BY THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE MON·THURB-11 & FRI·SATB­1 CALL 272-4453!' 
To the girl at cheerleading auditions last Sat sitting directly across from the 1udges with a blue. yellow. and assorted striped (vertical) shirt. Call Wall (white pants, gold rugby) at 8295. 
Zarfs The day you ve been waiting all week for has finally arrived. I'm dying to hear your special tape. See you tonight! 
$$$$$$Beat the rush!! Sell your used textbook now!! Book buying hours Mon· Thur 1-4pm only. Pandora Books 937 South Bend Ave. 
the besHooking guys on campus live 1n 150151 alumni 
GILA PARTY GILA PARTY CILA PARTY GILA PARTY GILA PARTY CILA PARTY TONIGHT! Be There!! 
NEED ANOTHER ROOM MATE FOR OC NEXT YEAR? Call Matt at 1213. I really want to move OC. HELP!!! 
TODD OWERS::REATOR OF HOOSIER DAY AT THE DINING HALL (AND PROUD OF IT TOO!) 
THEODORE S. OWERS KEEP IT UP AND THE FCC WILL REVOKE YOUR LICENSE. SIGNED. THE WEASEL 
WE NEED HAMS. YES WE NEED YOU TO READ FOR THE SHAKESPEARE READING MARATHON. CALL SUSIE· 3821. JOHN GUID0-239-7735 OR OMBUD-6283. OR SIGN UP AT THE OMBUDDESK. 
G.Z. PARTY! 7:00, CSC. 
BARNET. SUNDAY. 

FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
RNNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
La Fllle Mat Gardea Don't miss it! tonight through Sunday call 284·4626 
Marla Dolores: Your tank runneth over, Met any good tanks lately? The M.D. Tank Workers 
TO THAT AWESOMELY NICE GIRL THAT I MET AT THE BUS STOP IN FRONT OF MADELAVA HALL ON THURSDAY AT 1:30, THIS IS THAT TALL, DARK. AND HANDSOME GUY WHO WANTS TO GET TO KNOW YOU WHATS YOUR MAJOR? WHAT HALL DO YOU LIVE IN? WHAT IS YOUR NAME? INTERESTED? CURIOUS? RESPOND IN OBSERVER TO TALL. DARK. AND HANDSOME. 
THANKS ST JUDE 

FRESHMEN ORIENTATION DORM CHAIRMEN: MANDATORY MEETING SATURDAY 10 AM IN LAFORTUNE BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
Hey TEB. .. How is work? Have fun. MAP 
REMEMBER.. I AM YOUR MOMMY AND MOMMIES ARE SUPPOSED TO TAKE CARE OF THEIR BABIES... 
Marc-Happy legality sweetie! We've had good & bad but I wouldn"llrade a minute of lhe times we ve shared for anything. I love you. 
Happy Birthday Tish (Letushka)! What a day to have a b-day! 
Dovld ClarK You might have a good batting average but will you ever get to first base? 
Happy Birthday Sheila! Get ready for a w1ld weekend! You·ve been a great friend ·we all love ya. Happy 19th-Luv C.G, 
M.B. TK, A.G. J.M. K.H. B.S. K.F, C.A. 
ATIENTION Today IS Sheila Kanehann·s Birthday. Bove her a call at 4070 and make her day. You'll love her laugh' Happy B-Day Sheola! 
Happy 21st Kathleen Gibney! AMD 
Good Luch Roomie. The OAT's will be history in 24 hrs. My fingers are crossed. AMD 
Sandra "Tennessee Lamb" Your personality overwhelms me. hope I can stop admiring you from alar and start gettingto know you at a more personal level. Affectionately-Ryan 
To the QUEEN of the EVIL BACK ROW . good luck on your Physics Exam and hap­py belated B-day. May Sperry give you a kiss. From the almighty (& rmre powerful) KING & LORD OF THE EVIl BACK ROW 
HAPPY B·DAY KRISTIN NIGRO' Have a great day bananas. Love P.S.. Breeze and the gang 
TERESITA FELIZ CUMPLEANOS!! ESPERO QUE PASES UN TREMENDO FIN DE SEMANA Y QUE SIEMPRE SlGAS TAN LINDA Y SIMP A TICA COMO HASTA AHORA AVISAME CUANDO QUIERAS IR A COMER FROSTY... TE QUIERE MUCHO,H M 
Anlostal returns with KISSER Sign up MONDAY, April 16 In LaFortune from 12:3D-3:00 and 5:3D­
7:30 at the OBUD desk. PRIZES(and kisses) awarded!II 
AnTostal Staff: FINALLY, there will be a smokerlll ft will be In the Farley parfy room FRIDAY, April 13 from 4-6. See you there. 
Whatever happened to John Anderson? 
NOVICE CREW --NOVICE CREW -­NOVICE CREW COME OUT THIS SUN­DAY TO SEE:-Brunetti"s Bulge· Libert's Cheeks-Usa·s Legs-Brogioli"s Butt -1m· monen·s Eyes-Casey·s Bag"' -and a great time EXCITING, FANTASTIC. AWESOME 2 miles South of Notre Dame on the St. Joseph's River SO MUCH TO SEE, SO UTILE TIME TO SEE IT 
I HAVE HOTEL RESERVATIONS IN ROSELAND -WILL TRADE FOR GRAD TIX CALL 1695. 
Myrtle-This is your personal! Sorry you·ve been left out these past couple of weeks. It will never happen again. Love, Ethers roommie 



The Observer Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 12 


Bookstore 
continued/rom page 16 
points on 21 shots ami grabbt·d H 
rt·bounds for Encore. 

Ed Smkrciak and !'our Other <iuys That Are Ikttt·r ThanJohn Pax· son soumlly ddeated Planet Q-22, 2 1-6. Pat Deignan shot as well as a John Paxson, as ht· hit eight of his nine shots, and his teammates rounded out the scoring for a team total of 21-of-.3 3. 
Another Good Recruiting Year may have to improve its recruiting next year, since the team fell victim to Bleeding Ax Wounds II, 21-R Tim Beardsly inflicted some wounds for the winners, bagging nine baskets on ·13 attempts. 
The award for the mis-named tt·am of the day goes to Yes, We Will Lose in the l'irst Round, which beat Buttsweat and Tears, .21-1 I. Terry Ziegler led the attad'-for the im­properly namt·d team. hitting sevt·n of I5 shots. Jot· Whalen added seven more points to tht· win on his 7-of­1'i shooting. 
An appropriatl'ly-named tt·am. 
<,.?uick Exit, did just that yt·sterday, 
bowing out of the tournament to 
Win or Lose We Still Booze:, 21-9. 
The Boozers should be drinking hap­
pily this weekend. thanks to 9-of-.21 
shooting and ,..., rebounds from Don 
Skloss and H-of-.24 shooting and I 0 
rt·hounds from Mike Walsh. 

Mark Keefe turned in a notable pt·r!imnanc.: yesterday to lead his team. Destiny Without a Cause, to a 21-16 victory over Make Yurts Not War. Keefe scored 14 of his team's points, while missing only II shots. It's a good thing Keefe shot so well, too, because his teammates hit only 7-of-'i'i, for a team total of .21-of-HO. 
On Stt·pan 6 at 6: I 'i p.m., Tony An­zalone shot 8-of-12, as Strapamasqueon the Combat Worn­hats defeatt·d Dave, .21-9. 
Today, the best action seems to be 
early in the afternoon, as the first 
round of Bookstore XIII draws to a 
dose. Three good games are 
scht·dult'llto tip off at 4 p.m. 

On Stepan 4. Much Better Off ­the new edition of last year's Hall of hune tt·am, The Even Worse Off­mt·t·ts Four K & O.C. On Bookstore: I 0, The Creamers meet (lumby Takt·s Pokey lip the Rear, while Lyons 12 is the site of the matdmp hetwt-en Yank My Doodle, It's a Dandy anti Our Little Pollacks Got a Balw. Yank My Doodle, It's a Dandy was in the top .3.2 last year. 
At ·t:-!'i, the game to see may be (ieritol Express against Rave On John Donnt·. The Geritol Express is a team offaculty and staff members. 
Bookstore Briefs ... Bookstore Commissioner Jeff Blumh wishes to thank tht· scorekeepers who withstood yesterday's weather to do their jobs, and he reminds all scorekeepers to record first am/last names of players correct~y on their scort·sheets ....Teams should take nott· of the rule about the color of jnsies allowed: the team on the top bracket should wt·ar light colored shirts -that means on~y white, yel· low. or sky hlue ....Every team must supply a baskt·tball and a spot­ter to aid the official scorekn·per. 
Tennis 
continued/rom page 12 
Vandine, 6-.~. 6-1. Paul Najarian emled the match with a .3-6, 6-2, 6-1 victory over Pete Freishlag at tlfth singles. 
Today the Irish host Marquette and Ohio State at Courtney Tennis Courts for a tough triangular. The Warriors and the Buckeyes met this morning, and the Irish will face Ohio State this afternoon. Saturday, Notre I>amt· and Marquette play in the morning. If tht· weather is indem­t'nt, anion will move into the ACC. 
"Ohio State is tough." said Fallon. "They have a full scholarship team. plus my timner assistant, John Daly is thl'ir coach. 
"I think !taught him too much." 
Yesterday's Results 

Stepan 1 Oestmy Wrthout a Cause over Make Yurts Not War by 5 The Nads over We're Not In Lebanon Because We Cant by 2 5 Guys That L1ke To Puke, Aga1n over 5 Guys W1th No Hope by 4 
Stepan2 

Baltic Avenue over Woops by 2 
Boy George & the Stero1ds over The Addams 
Fam1lyby9 
John 3:16over Fred by 2 
Encore over Srncerely Yours, L.C. Greenwood by 17 
Stepan 5 John Murphy's Slime Train V over The 5 by 17 Stepan& Strapamasqeon over Dave by 12 BookstoreS The B-Man sTeam over What's a Basketball? by 15 
Stepan 3 

Jesse Jackson Pa1d the Abort1on B1ll over 865 Lbs of White Beef by 12 
Windex Gang over 5 Under 5-5 by 16 
Gil Thorpe Might As Well Jump ... over We Can Shoot But We Need Her by 15 
Stepan4 

Win Or Lose We Still Booze over Ou1ck Exit by 12 
Free Wheehn over Jomigod & the Val Dude• by 15 Ou«a Here over Go Ahead, Make Our Day by 11 Does Your Roommate Have Half a Beard over 
Pud's Spud Pubbers by 4 Bookstore 1 0 

Showt1me over 5 Marines Who Do It With a Grunt by21 
A Short Fat Guy over Fat Ch1cks by 10 
Bleedrng Ax Wounds II over Another Good RecrUit· 1ng Year by t3 
Lyons11 

Cubryad? over Gomer's Heroes by 18 
Captarn Punishment & the Cham Gang over Astronomrcal Tools by 11 Chicks Dig Us over A Wet Campus Is A Hot Campus by 14 Yes. We Will Lose In the First Round over But· tsweat & Tears by 1 0 
Lyons12 

Notre Dame over The Monk Bought Lunch by 11 
Mr. Bob & His Dog Slug over Su1c1de Squad by 3 
CRAMM!! over Soft Soap In the Jacuzzi by 10 
Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys That Are Better over Planet 0-22 by 15 
Today'a Games Stepan 1 4 00-Bookstore Bleeps, blinders. v. Sick. the Bangers & a Knockout 4 45-The H.B. s v. What It Is 
5:30 -L1ck My Greasy Balls One Last T1me v Cranberry Juick CocktailS 
6.15 ·-The Keenan Inmates v Ragrn CaJuns Stepan 2 4 00-T.J. Hooker's Hard Core Scum v. The Kmg & H1s Court 
4 45 -Some Th1ngs Speak For Themselves v Too Short. Too Slow. 
5.30 ·-Hoosiers v. Bogen·s Zeros 6 15-Nebo G1ants v. Corn & Cabbage 

Stepan3 4 00-The Makebehevers v. The Bears Are Fly1n' 4 45-Corby Tooters v. lncunabulae lnqUtnate 
5.30 -Hopefuls v. Mythical Ethical Recycled Tricycle 
6 .15 -Denms Menaces on Dry Land v The 5 Knuckle-shufflers 
Stepan 4 4·00-Much Better Off v. Four K & O.C. 4:45-Garito! Express v. Rave On John Donne 
5.30 
-Eddie & 4 Guys Who L1ke To H1de v. Duey Oxburger & the Lean 

6.15 
-Father Blowchamp & H1s 4 Dry Heaps v. Phi Pumpa Jumpa 


Stepan5 4 00 -UB40 She B13 We B Busted v Punky's Pentatonrc 4'45 -Our Russian Gunner & the 007 Swim Team 
v. Derelicts 5:30-Shrapnel v. A T-V Timeout 6:15-Hitler Youth v. Men W1thout Brams 
Stepan 6 4 00 -Los Malandros v. We Dream Of the Fragrance Of a Beautiful Fresh 4 45 -5 Guys Who Unnate In the Shower v So Fat G~rls 5 30-Fumped Duck v. Hoop Da Doop Bookstore 9 4 00-Omk 01nk & the Collect Callers M1nus B D Get Outta Heel 4:45-The TOXIC Shocks v Hungry Rats Who L1ke 
To Throw 5 30-The B1g Rap1ds Bombers v. Aka Phoen1x 6.15-5 Guys Whose Dates Never Have To Ask 
Where's the Beef? v X 
Bookstore 10 4.00-The Creamers v. Gumby Takes Pokey Up 
the Rear 4 45-The Unbalanced Mettlers v. Tnpods 5.30-L.M.A v. Congressional A1des 6 15-Milk & the 4 Udders v. Too Short & Not Tall 
Enough 
Lyono11 4:00-The USS New Jersey & 4 Other Guys With 161n. Guns v. Eat At the Y' 
4.45 -5 Guys You'll Never See or Hear FromJ 
Aga1n v ProhibitiOniSt 5·.30 -As Individuals We Slink But v Art Miller & Doug Woog·s Lyona12 4 00-Our L1Hie Pollacks Got a Babe v. Yank My Doodle. It's a Dandy 
4:45 -Performers v. Capt. 6-pack & H1s 6-shot Sidek1cks 


-----~. .. ~~ 
,

The Observer Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 13 
Record 11-12 

Baseball team swept by Wolverines 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame baseball team 
expected two tough games from the 
Spartans of Michigan State on Wed­
nesday, and that is exactly what it 
got. 

The Spartans had no trouble sweeping the Irish by scores of 7-1 and 7-2, as the Irish could not seem to muster any timely hitting. 
In the first game, the Spartans jumped out to a 2-0 lead in te first inning off Irish starter Buster Lopes. Although Notre Dame came back with a run in the second, MSU quick­ly ran away with the game by scoring five runs over the fourth, fifth, and sixth innings. 
Spartan hurler Ralf Mojsiejenko hurt a Notre Dame team for the second time this year. After punting MSU to victory over the Irish in foot­ball this fall, Mojsiejenko pitched a five-hitter for the victory. Mike Metzler and Tom Shields each had 
two hits for the Irish. Lopes took the loss and is now 0-3. loss, lowering his record to 2-2. The Irish are now 11-12 for the In the second contest, Notre season, and face a tough Xavier Uni­
Dame jumped out to a 2-0 lead off versity ballclub in Cincinnati this Spartan starter Dave Mammel, but weekend. A four-game series will the team would score no more that open the Midwestern City Con­
day. MSU scored four runs in the ference schedule for the Irish. Gal­second and three more in the fourth lo's goal is to make the conference 
to take the 7-2 win. playoffs this season, and the Irish can Dave Clark had two hits, including move a step closer to accomplishing a triple, for the Irish, while Shields this with a good performance this 
doubled. Mark Clementz took the weekend. 





Golf team travels to '84 Kepler Invitational 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
After a strong outing last weekend in Purdue, the Notre Dame golfteam will be traveling to Columbus, Ohio, this weekend where they will face outstanding competition in the 25~­
Friday 
saturday Specials 

3·8 pm Happy Hour: Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 D FREE cheese trays Irish Draft Pitchers $2.00 Sign up now!! "Corby Open" Golf Tourney 
r 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiii-o~---~ and no\~ the film ... 
A NORMAN JEWISON Film 
I ..JESUS CHRIST SUPERSIAR" 
A Universal Picture · Technicolor"-Todd-AO 35 ~ ~ 
at CHAUTAUQUA Tues. April17 & Wed. April18 7:30,9:30,11:30 Adm $1 
ICELINDAIR IS STILL YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE. 
LUXEMBOURG 
ROUNDTRIP FROM: 
8488 NEW YORK  8508 BALTIMORE/ WASHINGTON  
8560 DETROIT  8568 CHICAGO  

ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS, FRANKFURT AND NICE. REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS: 
• Free deluxe motorcoach from Luxembourg to select cities in Germany, Belgium and Holland. • Bargain train fares to Switzerland and France. • Super Saver car rentals from $69/week in 
Luxembourg. • Free wine with dinner, cognac after. Super APEX Fares. May !-June 9, 1984. 7-60 day stay, 14 day advance purchase required. Icelandair to Luxembourg. Luxair connecting service to other destinations. Purchase tickets in U.S. All fares subject to change and goverrunent approval. See your travel agent or caU 800/555-1212 for the toll-free lcelandair number in your area. 

team Kepler Invitational hosted by 
Ohio State University. 
Last weekend in a tournament dominated by a tough opening round on Saturday and horrible weather conditions on Sunday, the Irish were able to come away with a 1Oth place finish and an average of 76, 5-over-par, for the two day, 36­hole Purdue InviationaL 
According to Irish Head Coach Noel O'Sullivan, the key to the tournament were the extraordinari­ly tough first 18 holes which were dominated by teams with full scholarship players. Purdue, the host team and winner of the event, shot a 355 (71 average) Saturday. 
"The competition was extremely stiff (with eight Big Ten teams) on the first day with others teams shooting 71's, 72's, and 73's," said O'Sullivan. "The Notre Dame showing was not at all humiliating or disappointing-it just wasn't up to that caliber that day." 
The second round action, which was plagued by high winds, brought the tournament back to reality according to O'Sullivan. The Irish, who were an average of 5 strokes off the pace on Saturday, finished 2 strokes off the pace on Sunday and 3 strokes off the winning team's pace which ended at 731 compared to 768 for the Irish. 
"Although the placement seems weak,'' commented O'Sullivan, "the performance of the N~tre Dame gol­fers was prideful and strong." 
Irish scores from the Purdue In­vitational were Moorman 74-82-154, Leyes 74-80-154, Pangraze 77-78-155, O'Donovan 77­78-155, Bona 79-77-156, and Huf­fman 82-74-I 56. 
In Columbus, the Irish will be competing against Ohio State, In­diana, and Ball State, all ofwhom are considered "perennial powers." 
This 54-hole, three-day tourna­ment will begin this afternoon and will continue through Sunday on Ohio State's Scarlet GolfCourse. 


Rowing team hosts first spring regatta 
By KATHLEEN NICHOLSON 
Sports Writer 
This Sunday, the Notre Dame men's and women's rowing team will host their first spring regatta of the 1984 season on their racing course located on the St. Joe's River. 
The men's and women's teams compromised of both novice and varsity boats will test their prowess against Northwestern University and Grand Valley Rowing Club in a series of rowing events. 
With the completion of the new boathouse and the addition of many new boats this year, the club hopes that new interest will be sparked for the sport of rowing here at Note Dame. 
Students are encouraged to come see the competition this Sunday. The race begins at 11 a.m. at the boathouse on the St. Joe River about 
1.5 miles off Notre Dame Avenue. 

, If t't 1 ,·,·.·,.-,·, , o If I 0 I I J I I 0 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I If I I I I If t I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 0 .. I I I I I 0 • •' '''­
The Observer Friday, April 13, 1984 -page 14 

SPRING INTO SAVINGS APRIL 13, 14, 15th ~ 3 DAYS ONLY! 
Some Quantities May Be Limited-Some 
Home Stereo TURNTABLES SAVEUP 

Pere Sound m 700-llelt Orin T 1bl1•••••••••••••••••$49.95 
s 
P111110nic H-306 lilt DriYI w/C..rtrlclp •••••••••••••••$69.95 Sony PS-155-DII'Kt Drill T1b11••.....with Cartrldge.... $99.95 P1resound LTT900 Direct DriYI Linear Trecklng••••••• $119.95 Du•l515low Meu Tone Ann Glmble Suspenslon •••••••$129.95 Du1l 530 Fully lut01111tlc •••..•••••••••••• ___ ••••••• $149.95 Du•l501 With Certridge, lltlli-eutomltic:••••••••••••••$169.95 0..1521 With~ fully ltltomlllc••.•••••••••••$119.95 
Hermon Kerden T-20 left DriYiluto Sh!ll Dff.. ••••••••$149.95 H1nnon Kanlon T-40 S..i-lutollllllc•••••••••••••••••$19!1.95 Thorena TD-1881111t DriYI, Minuet Table••••••••••••••$219.95 Thoren• TD-1.. 11111 DriY1 Tlbll.•••••••••••••••••••.$299.95 llermonKenlon T-60 State If the Art Turntabll.•••••.••$399.95 NOT.E: Dual 508, 528, 708 include $110.00 Ortolan Car­tndge 


PARA~~fs!!~ERS 95 SAVE UP TO 50°/o ch1nHI..............,. 611.11099 
:;~--~-~-~'!.:11:',!, 13995 SONY EHF 90 Minute 
SONY GR-3oo wilts dl&ftal fiCiiyer ________ ...,. 70.110-------179.95 Chrome Tape 
HARMON URDON330120 wilts per ch ••••~n 311.110 -------199.95 
NlltltO 40 wilts p/ch dl&ftal.. •••••••••••im 150.110-------249.95 High 199 
HARMON URDON380130 wilts p/ch •••••• un 42.110-------211.110 Bias 
HAIIIOII URDOI570145 wilts p/cll••••• u .. 170.110-------311.15 EACH 
HARIIOII URDOII 5101 45 watt llllltal-----746.110-------311.95 Limit 6 Per Customer 
HARIIOit KARDOII610180 wilts dlcital.. ..u .. 110.110 ••••••• -15 L.._;....;.;;;;;;;;;;;;~------' 

CASSETTE DECKS 
NIKKO ND-100 30-110110 "'-'-,..,_.._..,.10.110 19.95 l-;; SONY Fea-2511fteject.llllbr••••••••• u .. IO.IIO 111.15 r HITACHI • ...., I&C••••••••••••• -611.110 139.951ll AIWA220wlthdolbyB&C..............r•50.110 149.95 . ,,; . .·. no A A e e 
AIWA 330 bluin1wlth dolby b&C.••••• ur•50.110 189.95. -· -·--· · · HARMONKARDON9120-20000 tr.q fiiPORII---------------------· ------------ur•30.110 ------­HARMONKARDON 191 20-21,000 tr.q 111spon11, dolby C •• --------------------••• ure 40.110-· -----329.: AIWA 3800 computerized operation •••••••••••••••••••• ----------------------U,. 40.110 -------389. 
HARMONKARDON401 Stat•., the Art ~~sP'Ea-r<ERs~---5 Av_E:..t7~~ -7o~io 549'95 
P~r~sound CR-2110 Mlni-Spukers ••••• -----------------$29.95each 
Sony SU-400 I" 3-ny••••••••• ---------------------·$49.95 each 
Whlmdlll Luer 60 AFine British Spuklr•••••••••••••$69.!15 uch 
Whlrt.dell W-20 lloobhelf SHall., . -----------$89.95uch 
EPI 100 2 Way Speaker, 90 w1111----------------------S99.95uch 
EPI 1110" 2 Way, 1110 Wllb••••••••••••••••••••••••••$129.95uch 
Wherfldele W-30 A Flnt 1110 Wilt Spuker •••••••••••••$149.95uch 
Ohms W1ish 1913 $peeker ol the Yur•••••••••••••••••$299.95uch 
Wharfldell W-40 3 Way 150 Wilt Spuker •••••••••••••$2110.00 uch 
IIC2A Flat Panel Spuken••••••••••••••••••$199.95uch Power -----------$249.95 aech your present an equ P1rlsound5 lend Equellzer__ -----------------Y,. 30.110 ••• 49.95 
Per•IMM 10 Bend Equellzer__________________ un50.110 __ 139.95 
~ 1Hft1UU=-;! lll_llttttl

H•nnon Kinion 10 Bend Equ1llzer-------------U,. 50.110 __ 199.15 
Audio Control 1 0 Bend EQ with spectrum enelyzer 1ta11 of the art.. ••••••••,.,.250.110 •• 399.95 


EQUALIZERS 
::; 18995 

'!Atp~ 
CRAIG AM/FM Stereo with cassette player and speakers. 
MAIN UNIT: SG-3 
• AM/FM Stereo Receiver • New Slim Style De­sign • Front-Loading Cassette Record/Playback Deck • Fully Automatic Record Change wrth Cer­amic Cartridge • Separate BassfTreble Controls • LED Sound Level Meter • LED Dial Pointer • LED FM Stereo Indicator • LED Record Indicator 
eTape Counter Sony GR-V-3 

EMPIRE Phono Cartridges 

50% off 
SHARP 3K89 tr•liW TV •••••••ur•$30 only 79.95 SONY K1952RX 18" COLOR INRECT SHARP 13H22 13" COLOR T11. •• ure $1110 only 229.95 Best 19" Sony TV_. __ ._ ...,. only 511.15 SHARP 13114213" COLOR TV SHARP 25" COLOR TULETOP....... $JI0011Iy 411.95 wireless remote _________ un $1110only 349.95 SONY 25" COLOR CONSOU.......,.IfOO•Iy 119.15 SHARP 19.1&5 19" COLOR TV••• ure $112only 211.110 SONY 21" COLOR CONSOLE SHARP 19H78 19" COLOR TV Wireless remote._ •.......,. $210 •ly 711.15 electronic tuning _____ •.. ure $150 only 349.95 
SONY K¥1917 19" COLOR TV PRO-MONITOR TVS with WIRELESS REMOTE electronic tuning. ____ ._. ure $1110 only 399.95 SHARP 15" MONITOR TV syst... ..,. $ITo only 411.15 SONY 1¥195519" COLOR TV SHARP 25" MONITOR TV syst..____ ..,. $3001119.95 wireless remote ___ • _____ ure $150 only 499.95 · · · · 

PORTABLES-~~~~ 
FREE MOVIE C'LUB LIFETIME MEMBERSHIP WITH PURCHA.SE 
SONY SL2305 wire ....ote 3-tlay-~-------------------------------------10.110 ••••••••••.317.15 SYLVANIA 2224 win .--tel-lily-nenLVHS ·····-----------------------150.110 •••••••••• 319.15 SANYO 6400 4 hud, slow motion, frllze frl111 ..................................,. 120.110----------mi5 TOSHIBA VM-32 wir~~remoll14-day 8 procram••••••••••••••• ------------------7110.110----------449:95 SHARP 481 3speed 8 hr. 8 functions VHS•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• un 130.110----------489.95 SONY 2405 with wintllu remote 3-dey-'""-------------------------------Urt 7110.110----------489.95 SONY SL 52110 BnA HIFL •• ---------------------------------------------u,.200.110 ----------699.15 JVC 2600 portables stereo dolby 14-clay 8 ernt wlreleu remote. VHS ------------450.110 ··-------· 149.95 CANON commercial modiLVHS ---------------------u,.312.110 --==-----11111,110 

SPECIAL
VIDEO MOVIE CLUB 

BUY ON
OVER 1200 BETA AND VHS TITLES 
ALL 

JOIN VIDEO NOW $495 LOWEST FOR RATES 
ONE YEAR MEMBERSHIP 
CORDLESS PHONES 
$49.95 

ri ". ~ :u 
~-­
"!XlJ'm!fl
' . 
AMPS & EQUALIZERS FOR CAR STEREOS 
FULTRON48 wilts boolllr------------...,. 30.01119.95 
CRAIG ¥506 40 wilts booster/tire beml equalizer••••• un 30JJIJ 49.95 FULTRON 80 wilts boo111r 
equalizer •••••••• __ • un 611.110 89.95 JENSEN 40 wilts booster lqUIIizer•••••••••• -30.00119.95 
ALPHASONIC 40 wilts pure power amp•••• ure30.0.,129.95 PARASOUND 80 wilts pu111 power Mlp......,.40.11015U5 
CAR SPEAKERS 
ALL SPEAKERS PRICED AS PAIRS 
FULTRON box enclosed speakers 
..... 20.00..................... . JENSEN 6119 """" 50 rr•ttr ~p~~~~lt.,. 
.... 50.00 .................... . FUL TRtllt 6119 cou 50 nttr 


Setty CFS-300 AM/FM Stereo with ceulltl pgyer•••••••• s.,. 22.110 Sh•rp QT-\2 Am/FM St-with ceulltl pllyer•••••••••S.,.25.110 Sony CFS-7 AM/FM ST-with ceullt1 player•••••••••S... 110.110 Sharp GF-72110 AM/FM Stereo with ceulltl player••••••• S.n 50.110 Alwe CS-250 AM/FM SllrM with cus11t1 player••••••••• S...40.110 Sony CFS-el AM/FM SllrM with c:euette player••••••••• S...!Iti.IIO Sherp QT-37 AM/FM SllrM with cus11t1 player 1nc1 
Detachable Spuken. -------------------------------s.,. 50.110 
with HipP------------S.,. 90.110 Sh1rp QT-90 AM/FM Stereo ·w/llull Dubbin& ceullt1 1nd Dltachabll Spukers ••••• ---------------------------S... 50.110 $299.95 
=::~o=~Hia_':~ ~~-~:~~~~~~·-~-h_•:.,. SO.IIO $341.15 Sony W1lbuln I C..ulltlw/hudphones.•••••••••••••••••••••••••• $31.95 Unlllf Welkmln Auto Rnen11 c:euette player•••••••••••••••••••-.--$31.95 Alwe T-02 But If allwalkmen IJPII-----------------------------$129.95 
AM/FM Auto Reverse Cassette w/Noise Reduction 
ALL-TRONICS 
University Center­
Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
PHONE: 277·1801 
OPEN Monday-Saturday 11 to 9-Sunday 12 to 5 (BehindJeremiahsweeney's) 
Campus 
•4 p.m. -Track and Field, SMC vs Goshen Col· lege, Clay High School 
T0 day_______ ay_,A-p-ril_I_3,._1_98_4~-p-a-ge_I~5Fr-id... 
•5 p.m. -Lecture, "Three Novelists In Search of Lope," Fernando Del Paso, 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

•7 p.m.-Ground Zero Party, Center for Social Concerns
1:.1 50RK'01A ... I'M NOr 

•7, 9, and 11 p.m.-FUm, "Flashdance," Engineer· 
STAYIN& IN ro WnTCH fV WtrH YOO TONI6Hr. f.XJT 1VNI&HT. 
ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, 
NO WAY. TONIGffr I {j() ()}f! 
$1.50 

•7:30 
and 9:30p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Love and Anarchy," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m.-NDJazz Festival, Stepan Center 

•8 
p.m. -St. Edward's Hall Play, "Fools," Wash· ington Hall, Ill 


•8 p.m. -Fund-Raiser Play, "The Sunshine Boys," Chautauqua, Sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall, Free, Donations Accepted 
•8 
p.m. -Pena Folklorica, Wilson Commons, Sponsored by SOLA, Free 

•8 
p.m. -NDISMC Dance Theatre, "La Fllle Mal Gardee," O'Laughlin Auditorium, $2.50


Mellish 

Saturday, Aprlll4 
•I 
p.m.-PublicAuction,ofunclaimedproperty and bicycles, Gate 11 of Stadium, Sponsored by Security Department, 

•1 
p.m. -Softball, SMC vs Anderson, Angela Ath­letic Facility 

•7 
p.m. -FUm, "The Painted Waves of Love," Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Chin'ese As· sociation, 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Fllm, "Flashdance," Engineer· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, n.5o 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "Fools," Washington Hall, Sponsored by St. Edward's Hall, SI 

•8 
p.m. -Fund Raiser Play, "The Sunshine Boys," Chautauqua, Sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall, 


Free, Donations Appreciated
Guindon Richard Guindon Gary larson 



•8 p.m. -NDISMC Dance Theatre, "La Fille Mal 
Gardee," O'Laughlin Auditorium. $2.50 Sunday, April15 

•1 p.m. -Softball, SMC vs Walsh, Angela Athletic Facility 

•I p.m. -Opening Art Exhibition, Annual Stu· dent Exhibition, O'Shaughnessy Galleries 
•1:30 
p.m. -CROP Walk, Peace With Justice Week, 10 kilometers, Registration St. joseph's High School 

•2:30 
p.m. -NDISMC Dance Theatre, "La Fille Mal Gardee," O'Laughlin Auditorium, $2.50 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Dominic Cossa, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "A Policy in Search ofa Presi­dent A New Approach to Foreign Policy," Richard ]. Barnet, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Peace With justice Week, 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, SMC Spring Chorale, Little Theatre 


Why do people get so heated over the subject of 
•8 p.m. -Conference, Panel Discussion, AI· "Youth in Asia"? The kids never hurt anybody. Releasing the shaft, Red Bear falls victim to the 
ternative Perspectives on Development, and the
old fake bow-and-arrow trick 
International Economy," Center for Continuing Education 
32 Bivalve 45 Links goal 
The Daily Crossword 
joint 47 Throw 33 Joyce 49 Fr. painter Carol-50 Bridge seat 
ACROSS 35 Brazilian 50 "Cabin in 5 Babble 35 Tempo 51 Andrews the Sky"
1 Diplomacy superstar 6 House 36 Museum Sisters 5 Key letter 36 Map section star warmers mail 52 Choir 8 Sunken 37 Urban area 53 Antique 7 Conceit 38 Librllry voice 
walls 38 Less 56 Of a ground 8 Emulates 53 Grimm
request13 Humorous available section Reggie 42 Blu! flags character item 39 Budget 57 Journey 9 "-Day's 54 Wash 
15 Gat item part Night" 44 Helen or 55 -Scott 
16 Maureen 40 Great 58 Mortimer's 10 Sea calf Charlie 59 Hangout or John Barrier Bergen 
11 Price

17 Nimbi Reef 60 Colander Thursday's Solution 
offering18 Downed 41 Repeat 61 -lala 12 Was a19 Cal. county 42 Photo 62 Court stoolie20 Fink 43 Jujube delivery 14 Look upon 21 Cold· 44 Wordwith 63 Chanman 22 Doers: suff. 

weather cap 64 Donovan's 23 Drunkard
comfort 45 Wage-group 24 Mombasa24 Chosen earners, 65 Yen site25 Church for short DOWN 26 John-calendar 1 Big shot Astor26 Safe cache 46 Roller· 2 Shadeof 27 Upper crust29 Overtrumps coaster cry green 28 Noria
31 Gr. letter 48 James-, 3 Terse 34 "-flowing Indian 4 Pedro's 30 Shopping wlthmllk ... " chronicler aunt item 


7:00 9:00 11:00 Eng. Aud. $1.~0 




A wet bookstore game is not a happy game 
ByPHRWOLF on Bookstore I 0 yesterday after­.\ports Writer noon. The Five Marines managed to miss on 26 shot attempts in the 
It wa.~ bound to happen eventual­losing effort, as Brian llearney per­ly. After several days of beautiful sonally threw up nine bricks. weather, the rain finally fell on After every missed shot, The Five Bookstore Baskethall XIII yesterday. Marines grunted and groaned as 
Tht· Bookstort· rules clearly state they did pushups as punishment for (Playing Procedures, no. I), "As in tht•ir blunders. The players for thc past. gamcs will he played Showtime waited patiently for The rq~ardless of weather conditions." Five Marines to get hack to play Of course, weather conditions in defense before taking the hall to the years pa.'it have been much worse hoop as if the defense were not than yesterday's, as games have been there. Hopefully, The Five Marines played in freezing weather and will be better at defending our snowstorms. country than they were at defending 
The spring rain yesterday did not against Showtime. rt·ally dampen the intensity of play Mean~hile, on Bookstore 9, in round I of the World's Largest Jomigod and The Val Dudes narrow­Basketball Tournament, though, as ly escaped a shutout at the hands of seVt'ral individuals and teams put Free Wheelin' by virtue ofJoe Hohl's ¥' forth outstanding performances. two points. llohl shot 2-for-12, 
while his teammates choked on 25 The.· Ohsc:rvc:-r/Carol Galt:~ shots. A mugging at Lyot~s! Capt. Punishment and the pror•ides a roundup ofyesterday'sfirst roundaction at Chris Richardson took the left.
Chain Gang (dark uniforms) met out a little dis­
Bookstore XIII 
"honors" as high non-scorer for the 
cipline to the Astronomical Tools yesterday. Phil Wolf 
Val Dudes, as he went 0-for-13. Ric­hardson blamed his team's perfor­
Wooster College tomorrow 
mance on lack of experience and poor playing conditions.
The slick ball and court did not "For three years I havcn't seen itstop Showtimt· from turning in the 

Lacrosse team awaits home opener
rain this hard," Richardson said.
sc:cond shutout victory of Bookstore By MIKE SULLIVAN Home-t1eld advantage is some-played ti>r the t1rst quarter. rolling"Besides, we had two guys who hadXIII, as the team aced Five Marines sports Editor thing that Rich O'Leary's squad has the score to 9-0 and then letting thenever seen a haskl·thall." 

Who I>o it With a Grunt. 

not had since the season began over seldom-used players get in someJoe Whelan led his team to the vic­Kim Adam~ led Showtime to the 
spring break. Now seven games into playing time. Shutouts in lacrossetory by hitting half of his 14 shots They might not admit it, but thevictory, hitting sevcn shots in a row the season, Notre Dame will get to are even more infrequent thanfrom the slippery court. Notre Dame lacrosse players arehcti>re missing her last shot of the play host to an opponent for the t1rst shutouts in Bookstore, yet the IrishAnother big winner in yesterday's probably glad they will be in South game. Kevin Rodgers helped in the o~1n crowd." were able to keep their badly-games was Encore, which dismissed Bend this weekend. Even if the
shutout by hitting t1ve of his nine Tomorrow's game is an important outmatched opponents fromSincerely Yours L.C. Greenwood, weather turns cold and windy like it

shots. 

one for the 4-.3lrish. Wooster is one scoring a single goal. In the two21-4. Joel Williams recorded I l usually does during the season, atObviously, what the Five Marines of the better teams in the Midwest games ht·tween the teams, Notre
least the Irish will be playing at
do with a grunt is miss shots, and, 

see BOOKSTORE, page 12 Lacrosse Association, and Notre Dame has outscored the Purple
home.
indeed, there was a lot of grunting 

Dame can ill afford another con-Knights, 4'3-4. ference loss after splitting a pair of It was a different story at Ohio
Ohio State today 

MLA games this past week. Wesleyan last weekend, though, as The Irish will also he looking to 
the Irish fell behind 7·2 at halftime and could never get closer than fouravenge last season's 22-16 loss at Wooster. In that game, the Notre

Tennis team wins eighth straight 
goals the rest of the way, eventuallyBy ED KONRADY they will continue to beat a lot of ly didn't have a home court ad-
losing 12-'; to the defending MI.A Sports W'rlter people." vantage playing on our 'indoor ice'." 
Dame offense exploded early, giving 
champs."The score of 7-2 is misleading," The doubles teams started the the Irish an early lead. However, the 
defense played its worst game ofthe "They were a better team than we The men's tennis team overcame said Paul Najarian. "Their new match, with the number one pair of 
were," admitted O'Leary. "I think a tenacious Northern Illinois team to players turned out to be tough. The Mike Gibbons and Tim Noonan season as the hosts quickly erased 
the lead to score a relatively easy the score should have been 8-5 or extend their winning streak to eight match was a lot closer than the fighting for a 6-4, 6-4 win over Jim 8-4, hut we had a lot of breakdownswin.
score." Shakleford and Gary Whitworth. Joe
matches, and improving their Obviously, O'Leary will he in the game. We would have a goodThe match was forced indoors to Nelligan and Doug Pratt, the number
record to I 7-6. looking for his defense to protect flurry by our offense but not score, "I was surprised," said Head the ACC "tartan smooth" courts due three combination, survived a tight 
the goal much better than it did last and then they would come back and to the rain. "It was a tough match," 7·5 first set befor~ dominating the
Coach Tom Fallon. "Last year the year, and, if the t1rst seven games are score easily."
said Assistant Coach Tom Hartzell. second set 6-2 and giving the Irish a
match was cut short, and we won 5-any indication, he should not he dis­Notre Dame's showing was not 
I. Although they lost their top man. "Because we hadn't played on these 2-0 lead. nearly as good as O'Leary had hoped,
appointed. The Notre Dame defense 
their coach ret:ruited very well, and courts ourselves for a while, we real-The second doubles team of so the outcome could hurt the
has allowed more than l 0 goals a 
Najarian and Paul Ghidotti dropped 
game only three times this year and team's cont1dence level. However, 
a heartbreaking three set match to 
registered its first shutout ever in Simpson is cont1dent that the loss Eric Eberhardt and Pete Freishlag 5­
Tuesday's 15-0 drubbing of Mt. Uni­will have a good effect on the team. 7, 7-5, 7-6. "Paul and I really didn't "The loss makes us want to work
on College.communicate during the match," "We've got a new defense this harder," said the junior goalie. said Ghidotti. "We blew t1ve match "We're still not out of (the con­
year which has really helped us out," points during the second set." ference race) at all." 
explains Simpson. "We used to play"Their doubles team played very 
a man-to-man defense, hut now ~e well," said Najarian, "and they got 
play a zone defense that is some­Wooster should prove to be a the breaks when they needed them." thing like a 3·.3 defense. It almos~ good test for the Irish because it has The action then shifted to singles cuts off evry shot from close in, so I probably the third-best team in the where at sixth singles, Northern Il­
can see the shots better and get bet­confen·nce behind Ohio Wesleyan lnois's Ken Schlecht defeated Doug and Denison. IfNotre Dame wants to
ter saves." 

Pratt in a see-saw three-set battle, 6-have a chance for the MI.A title, it
The slaughter at Mt. Union was 3, l-6, 6-3, knotting the score at 2-2. 
more of a practice session than a must take advantage of their home The Irish took charge at this point, 
game. The Notre Dame regulars t1eld. winning the next t1ve matches to clinch the victory. At first singles, steady Mike Gib­
Starting quarterback
bons played another three-set marathon, 6-3, 3-6. 6-2, defeating Eric Eberhardt. The consistent play 
role is Beuerlein's 
of Gibbons has added cont1dence to 
By ED DOMANSKY "Any program at this level would
the singles play ofthe team. 
Sports Writer like to be starting a junior that had
At second singles, Joe Nelligan 
been in the program for a couple

won an emotional match against Jim 
Taking the helm as starting quar­years and had a little bit more under­
Shackleford, 5-7,7-6,6-3. "Northern terback is certainly not an easy task. standing of the system," he says.
Illinois recruited me," said Nelligan, Most teams will look to a seasoned "But Steve, as a sophomore
"and I faced the guy I played today veteran to meet the challenge. eligibility-wise and academically, is
before-I knew it would be tough." For the Notre Dame football team, far more advanced than a normal
At third singles, Paul Ghidotti however, this vital role will rest with sophomore. Because he started
demolished Gary Whitworth 6-l, 6­Steve Beuerlein, the 6-3, 200-pound eight games for us last year, it's not
3. "I just went for winners," said 
sophomore from Fullerton, Califor­like we're talking to a rookie. It takes
Ghidotti. "I just wasn't in the mood 
a little of the nervousness out, and

The <>mc:rver/Lc:v Chapdsky nia.
to take a long time." 

Not too surprisingly, offensive that's a real positive thing for us." 
Captain Tim Noonan at fourth coordinator and quarterback coach Competing with Beuerlcin for the
singles quickly dispatched Greg Ron Hudson expresses great con­
see FOOTBALL, page 11

see TENNIS, page 12 t1dence in Beuerlein's abilities. 
Freshman sensation Paul Gbidotti's strong service returns led the Irish /u their eighth straight victory against Northern Illinois. Ed Konradybas the details ofthe victory and today's match against Ohio State abor,e. 
















