

Student center -page 6 
VOl. XIX, NO. S7 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1S, 1984 

Student representation on boards of trustees uncommon 
Editor's note: The following is the fourth offirJe articles examining the Notre Dame Board ofTrustees. The series will concentrate o'n who makes up the board, what Its responslbllltes Include, and the question of a student on the board. 
By FRANK LIPO 
Copy Editor 
"The practice of students scr· vlng on a university board of trus­tees is not as widespread as some think." according to Nancy Axel­rod, vice president for programs and public policy at the Associa­tion ofGoverning Boards In Wash· ington, D.C. 
Axelrod cited figures from the 1977·7H academic year which showed less than one percent of the total trustees of private and puhlk l'OIIeges and universities in the llnited States arc student trus­tees. 
'Jlte AGB has not taken a posi­tion on student representation on hoards. said Axelrod. She said it is a frl·qucnt topic of inquiry at the AGB and one with no clear-cut an­swer. 
"Having students on the boards is not the only way of achieving student participation in the gover­nance process," said Axelrod. Stu· dent participation through commmittec membership is one viable alternative to actual student trustees, an alternative which is practiced by some colleges and universities, she said. 
"In some states student repre­sentation on boards is mandated by law," said Axelrod. 
Kentucky is one such state in which law requires state-run schools to scat a student on the board oftrustees. 
At the University of Kentucky at Lexington, a student has sat on the board since I968 and has had voting privileges since 1972. The student trustee is the student body president unless he is not a Ken· tucky resident. In that case, a spe· cia! election would be held to choose the student trustee. 
Tim Freudenberg is the student body president and student trustee at UK. He said a student trustee can ensure students have a say in the activities of the board. 
"Most of the trustees here (besides faculty trustees) do not have much contact with students. They look to me for feedback from students." 
Freudenberg said the board gen· erally does not take a stand on the day·to·day operations of the uni· vcrsity. Instead the hoard accepts the recommendation of the uni-

Board of Trustees 
series 
versity president on such a matter as routine promotion of faculty members. 
The board instead focuses on long-term planning for the univer· sity. UK owns several thousand acres of forestland in Kentucky, said Freudenberg. A few years ago the trustees felt it was a "good eco· nomic move" to clear the land and exploit the coal vein under it. 
There was strong student senti· ment against the coal mining plan, said Freudenberg. The student trustee was instrumental in in­forming the board and reversing their original plan, he said. 

The board of trustees of UK is 
"sensitive to what is happening on 
campus" because of the student 
trustee, said Freudenberg, espe­
cially on "issues that affect stu· 
dents." 

On certain "sensitive issues" the 
~tudcnt interest is best served by 
private negotiations, said Freuden· 
berg. But he said the long-range 
policy of the .board should be to 
"air the laundry" concerning 
boan.l Occisions. He said secrecy is 
"not a blanket policy." 

"It's been a learning experi­ence," said Freudenberg. He said dealing with the trustees has been "a real eye-opener" and "I wish that more students had the oppor· tunity to experience what I have." 
Stanford University has no stu­dent members on its board of trustees. Mary Beth Roberts, assis· tant to G. Robert Hamrdla, who is an assistant to the university presi· dent and works with the board, said Stanford has student members on each ofthree major committees of the board of trustees. She said the committees meet seven times per year prior to each time the full board meets. 
The Associated Students ofStan­ford University, the Stanford stu· dent government, has a nominating committee which nominates students for the trustee committees, Roberts said. The uni· versity president has final approval of the students. 

"The major gain for students beingon the board is the spreading ofknowledge from the students on the committees to the ASSU, to the student body," said Roberts. 
Roberts said the student com· mittee members make the board of trustees "more credible." She said much of the impetus for student representation came from the 1960s and alleviates some mistrust students have for those in author· ity. 
Boston College docs not have students on its board of trustees. Margaret Dwyer, vice president at Boston College, said, "The ques­tion has been examined many times bill it has been decidt•d by the board that no internal constltu· cnts will be chosen as board mem· bcrs." 
Dwyer said the alumni association is not given the option 
see BOARDS page 3 



Fund drive could bring free MTV-sponsored concert to ND campus 
By SCOTI BEARBY expenses which arc not covered by Neu,sStaff any other source. In order to assist the student, CAB 
'Ilte Notre Dame campus could be is seeking donations from any the site ofa MTV-sponsored concert campus organization and will be given by one of the top five rock holding a raffle soon. S,OOO tickets groups touring this spring if the Uni· will be sold for the Dec. 12 drawing verslty wins a contest involving I S with first prize being an "Escape for other Midwestern universities to Two Weekend" at the South Bend raise the most money for Multiple Marriott. Sclerosis. This information and A 24-hour basketball marathon other details about the event were sponsored by the Notre Dame Circle revealed at last night's Hall Presi­K is on the agenda for Dec. 8·9. dents <:ouncil meeting. Marathon spokesman Roger Wilke 
'Jlte contest, which will begin this told the Council the event will Saturday and last officially until feature competitive tournaments for April, is being tested by the MS or­men's and women's dorms and non­gani.:ation to see what response col­competitive games for any organiza­lege campuses will have toward tion or group of students wishing to fund raising for them. Raising the pay the $2<; entry fee. All proceeds most money per capita is the criteria will go to the South Bend Muscular for winning the competition. Dystrophy Association. 
'Ilte Trivial Pursuit marathon 
Campus efforts will begin this Sat· began last night and will continue urday at Senior Bar where S.30 of until Saturday in the New Orleans each Sl spent will be donated to MS. Room at Lafortune Center. The Other early campus activities in· Junior Advisory Council hopes to elude the premiere of a MTV video raise S3,000 for the Hope Rescue at the University and a kick-off to the Mission and the Suicide Prevention campaign by former Notre Dame Center from the event. football coach and key MS spokes­In order to help undercut Senior 
man Ara Parseghian. Formal bid prices, spokesman Steve 
Should Notre Dame raise the most Smith announced candy bars will be money per capita from students, the sold at all hall food sales. Proceeds South Bt·nd community, and alumni, from this weekend's movie "Brian's It will host the major concert during Song" will also go towards the effort. An Tostal on April 27. 'J1tc concert The goals of the Hall Presidents by the unnamed group would be Council were also reviewed by the free to all students. members. The group is currently 
Also, Susan Saavedra, a reprcscnta· working on an information booklet live for the Committee to Assist Bill, for future hall presidents, since "part explained that the committee is de· oftheir task is to help presidents do a signed to aid a post-graduate student better job in running their halls," ac­and part· time employee of the cording to Council President Chris Memorial Library In paying medical Tayback. '11tey are also looking into 
bills for his chronic illness. He cur­the sponsorship of a leadership rently has about $30,000 in medical lecture series next semester. 

Senior George jordan discusses the "Women of the calendar, which goes on sale today. For more Notre Dame" asfreshman Patti Trlpathi andsenior details, see the story below. Laura Lee look on. Both Tripathi and Lee appear in 

Hall sponsors of calendars dispute charges of sexism and exploitation 
By BOB MUSSELMAN "The Men of Notre Dame Calen­project coordinator George Jordan. News Staff dar," published by committees from Asked about a recent Observer ed­Walsh and Farley Halls, may be pur­itorial which criticized the calendar, 
Two calendars featuring the chased in the sponsor halls today, in most women present were quick to "people" of Notre Dame make their most dorms Friday and Saturday, and defend both its content and inten­campus debut today, as the publish­in women's dorms Monday. Price is tions. ers of each attempt·to calm allega· $6, and two for S 10. "It's a statement that there arc wo­
tions of chauvinism and The Holy Cross-sponsored calen­men at Notre Dame," said Alison exploitation. 
dar was introduced to those Yurko, who is featured in June's "The Women of Notre Dame featured in it at a meeting last night picture layout. 
Calendar," a project of Holy Cross in the Center for Social Concerns. Robin Holley, featured in August, Hall, will be available for S7 at the Pictures appear in full color and are said there is nothing wrong with " dining halls starting tonight. Satur· accompanied by a short description being intelligent," and appearing day, calendars will be sold outside 
of the women featured. "attractive on top ofthat." She noted the South Dining Hall, inside The 
Reaction to the calendar was cx­SO percent of the profits gent·rated Huddle, and in the north dome of temely positive from both the wo­
see CALENDAR page 5

theACC. men who appear on its pages and 


-~-------­

The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 2 
Of Interest 

A new wave of music 
Representatives of 30 colleges and univer­


reaches Notre Dame
sities offering the master's program in business administration will 
participate in a Mini M.B.A. Forum at Notre Dame today at 4 p.m. The meeting in the ballroom of LaFortune Student Center is open to all area college students interested in the advanced degree. Representa­tives of the schools will answer questions concerning admission re­quirements, application procedures, curriculum, scholarships, tuition and housing. The annual forum is sponsored by Notre Dame's Career and Placement Services office. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's' department of music will 
present its Fall Choral Concert, featuring the Women's Choir and the Collegiate Choir, tonight at 8 in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre. Nancy Menk, music instructor, will direct the Collegiate Choir in renditions of "Modern Music" and "When Jesus Wept" by William Billings, "Exsultate Deo" by Alessandro Scarlatti, and "The Boat­men's Dance" and "I Bought Me a Cat" by Aaron Copland. The Wo­men's Choir, also directed by Menk, will perform "The Lass From the Low Country," a British folksong arranged by LaMance, "Magnificat" by Ralph Vaughan Williams, and Johannes Brahms' "Vier Gesange, Op. 17." The concert is free and open to the public.-The Observer 
A Dance Concert featuring new works by student choreographers will be presented by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Theatre. The concert will be tonight at 8 in the Dance Studio, Regina Hall at Saint Mary's and admission will be $1. -The Observer 
The Semester Around the Worldoverseas 
program will be the subject ofa slide show tonight from 7:30 to 8 in LaFortune's Little Theater. The SMC program was recently opened to Notre Dame students, and features study in India and travel through Asia and Europe. Program Director Dr. Cyrus Pullapilly will be narrating the slide show and answering questions. Application forms will also be available. -The Observer 
Law Professor Douglas Kmiec will host 
Channel 34's "34 Front," a public affairs program, tonight at 8. This week's topic will be the controversial Faith Assembly Church. Ques­tions will be accepted from the live studio audience as well as from telephone callers. -The Observer 
Don't forget to sign up to volunteer at the shelter for the homeless. Sign-ups for December and January will be_ on the first floor of LaFortune at the Ombudsman desk tonight from 6 to 8. Teams of four each with two men and two women and at least one trained member should sign up between 6 and 7. All other teams should sign up from 7 to 8. All four team members must be present to sign up. -The Observer 
The student general store needs your support. 
During lunch today student representatives will be collecting 
signatures on a petition for the store in both dining halls. -The 
Observer 
The Senior ClaSSis sponsoring a class party at H.l.'s Old Town in Niles, Mich., tonight starting at 9. A 21-ID is required.-The Observer 
jamesjack, chieffinancial officerand ex­
ecutive vice president of the Associates Corporation of North America, will speak to Saint Mary's Finance Club at 7 tonight in Room 303 of the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. His topic will be "Financial Function in a Corporation." Jack is a member of Saint Mary's College's Board of Regents. The talk is open to the public at no cost. -The Observer 


Weather 
Cloudy and windytoday with a 30 percent chance of morning showers. The high will be in the low 50's. Clearing tonight, but colder, with a low around 30. Tomorrow, it will be sunny and cool with a high in the mid 40s.-AP 


The Observer 
The Observer (USPS <;99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( $20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Production Consultant ....................Steve 
Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce 
Design Assistant................. Caroline Belin 
Layout Staff....................... Mark Weimholt 
Typesetters .jennifer (vlpts) Bigott, Mary 
Ellen Harrington News Editor........................... Marc Ramirez 
Copy Editor..............................jane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout.. .................. Dave Grote Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Dave Grote Features Copy Editor....... Marikris Dalum Features Layout.. ................... Sharon Houk ND Day Editor ................... Donna Gavigan SMC Day Editor ........................ Shirley Ore Ad Design .............Suzanne LaCroix, Mary 
Creadon, Anna Furleigh Pbotograpber ........................ Chris Mclean 
Dear Kate, 

I'm sorry I haven't written in such a long time, but I've really had to crack the books lately. I realize you don't have to do much of that, but then again, we can't all go to Penn State. 
Anyway, I'm sure you've opened this letter expecting to find the same obnoxious, boastful predictions of an Irish victory that preceded last year's ND/PSU football game. Your expectations are, of course, entirely cor­rect. But this year I've got something else to brag about as well. 
All summer long, I had to endure endless abuse from you concerning the social lives at our respective uni­versities. With my occasionally-latent school pride aroused, I did my best to defend Notre Dame, the home ofthe SYR and the Chance to Dance. But in a debate that pitted PSU's frats against NO's LaFortune Student Cen­ter, the odds were not in my favor. 
I spent the rest ofthe sum­mer singing the praises of 

Keith Harrison 
Assistant News Editor 

Inside Thursday 
Bangles and Joe "King" Carrasco to campus for shows. 
But their biggest coup to date occurs tomorrow, when 
they present a show by those big-time rock stars, the 
Fixx. 
Sure beats another night at Sigma Phi, doesn't it, Kate? 
The only hitch in the whole deal so far is the 
relatively small attendance at the first two shows. Ap­
proximately 740 people came to see the Bangles and 
ofless than $5. 
Part of the problem, I'm 
sure, is the relative 

Notre Dameacademics. obscurity of these acts. Our 
But now, Kate, those ofus campus rock station tries to under the Dome clearly reduce this problem by have the edge on PSU in at playing some "new" music least one aspect ofcollegiate for the students. In a rare social life. Notre Dame's so­showing of Penn State logic, cial strong point has sud­however, ND has shoved its denly become: rock rock station into the void concerts. known as the AM dial, while 
Granted, a couple ofgreat devoting its FM stereo sta­shows may not make up for tion to classical music. the non-stop parties that you But the problem may be crazy kids at Penn State deeper than that, Kate. You have. But really, Kate, how see, I'm afraid that when long will it take before you many ND students hear the get tired of having totally term "punk rock," they im­
obliterated, toga-clad fresh­men scream the refrain of "Louie, Louie" in your face? Don't you ever wish there was something else to do? 
Don't you ever wish you could go to a concert? 
For being basically in the middle of nowhere, ND has been host to some surprisingly big shows in the past. PSU students, on the other hand, have usually been stuck with MTV orSolid Gold. 
This year, however, the "concert gap" between our two schools has grown even wider. The reason is simple: punk rock has come to Notre Dame. 
Okay, I admit, nobody calls it punk ro~ anymore. And I can't call it new wave, 'cause everybody thinks of Devo when they hear that. So let's call it "new" music. Anyway, Kate, it's here, so you can eat your heart out. 
While you and your PSU buddies were busy studying for that big exam in Fun With Clay 101, a group of ND students were transforming the Musical Entertainment Committee of the Student Activities Board into a pow­erful social asset. 
Earlier in the year, this committee brought both the 

mediately think of a brazen, 
snotty  delinquent  who  
wears  a  safety pin  in  his  
cheek and hates his mother.  

This is not to say that this type oflittle beastie doesn't exist-it's just that he's quite the exception to the qJie. 
Once NO students realize this, I'm quite sure they will take a gamble on an unknown band or two. They'll Jove some of the shows, while other bands just won't tickle their fancy. But if tickets remain as cheap as they have been, nobody will really complain. 
Of course, since you don't have a concert scene at Penn State, you don't have to worry about these things, Kate. I just thought I'd fill you in on that "terrible" ND social life, so you'd have something to think about on your way to Phi Kappa Gamma -or was that Delta Omega Epsilon, or maybe Alpha .... 
Oh, Kate, I almost forgot. We're gonna beat the stuff­
ing out ofyour football team this Saturday. 
Love, Keith 


THE 
MEN OF NOTRE DAME 





CALENDAR 
IS HERE AND ON SALE DURING THE 
PENN STATE WEEKEND!I 
THURSDAY FRIDAY Farley &Walsh Halls NO Bookstore 6-9p.m. and The Reflecting Pool 
3 -5p.m. 

Farley & Walsh Halls 3-7 p.m. 
$6.00 2/$10.00 Cash or Check 
SATURDAY Farley & Walsh Halls 9 a.m. -kickoff 
3-Sp.m. 

* The Calendar will also be sold in all women's dorms (NO & SMC) on Monday, November 19&om 6 -9 p.m. 
lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii• WATCH FOR SIGNS!! 

The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 3 


The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 4 

The ComputerLand STUDENT STARTER SYSTEMS 
Flexible, capable, portaGie, here is a 

Either for
complete system that can work with a tiuge selection of programs and ac­as little ascessories to enhance the way you learn, work and play Included in this system 
Apple lie 
are the computer, monitor, the Apple 
$ Scribe printer,P.fs: U'l'ile word process­ing software for writing papers and all the necessary cables and connectors. 
The most respected name in personal computers, the IBM PC jr. is truly a tool for modern times. From its cordless keyboard that frees you to move around IBM and get comfortable, the "Junior" is de­signed to be easy to operate. This sys­
tem also is complete with monitor, print.er,P.f~: U"rite word processing soft­a month* ware and '!_II necessary cables and connectors. 

PCjr. 
The ComputerLand GRAD STUDENT SYSTEMS 
r------------------,The advanced featurE's of the IBM PC are exactly what you'd expect from IBM Either for -superb. And our system IS specifically l' l designed for graduate students or those as Itt e as who spend many hours in paper writing $ 

or computer programming. It's com­
IBM PC 
plete with two double sided, double density disk drives, monitor, printer, an extremely powerful and flexible word processing program, and all necessary 
:==================~cables and connectors. 

It's the portable computer with its own built-in, nine-inch diagonal screen. It delivers all the advantages ofportability, without trading off any computing power capability. The system is com-
Compaq 
plete (like the IBM) with two double 
a month* sided, double density disk drives, printer, word processing software and all cables and connectors. 

Portable 
*ThP amount may hP grPaiPr dut' 111 arw PXistin,io\ tJalall<'t' i11 y1JUr CcniiiJiliPrl.lflt' an'IJLIJII 
A special note: Enhance your system with a When we say your system is "complete" we mean telephone MODEM just that. Included are diskettes, paper, ribbons, a 
Enhance your system with a Modem that disk storage box, a power line filter (to protect your allows you to tap into a local computer and your valuable data from damage due computer system or area to lightning and other disturbances to the flow of and national bulletin 
t:>lrctricity) and, most important, an introductory boards. Yours for 
class in how to use your system. Also included is just $10 a month. 
complete assembly, installation and testing of your system so all you have to do is take it home and plug it in. 




Computeri.Gnd· , 
I I 
r r r
,. 
r 
~ 
ComputerLand now makes available to PVery student the advantages of your own personal computer. Through a special financing pro­)o(ram called "ComputerLine" WP can now offer four complete sys­tems specifically designed for students by our staff. At ComputerLand you I.'.ill (md .1 professional and friendly staff· 
to assist you, a complete service department, a wide variet~· of com­puter classes and a hot line for use when you have questions about your system. And remember, your satisfaction is guaranteed because ComputerLand is part of the world's largest computer retail chain with over 700 stores worldwide. · 
Mishawaka 719 W McKinley • (219) 256-5688 Town & Co~~;~s~~~~~ing Centre Elkhart Easy Shopping Place • (219) 295-2299 
Monday thru Friday 10 to 6. Thursday to 8, Saturday 10 to 4 Monday thru Friday 10 to 6, Thursday to H, Saturday 10 to 4 • Stop in anytime or call for an appointment to discuss which system is best for you. 
~ • ' ' ' ' ' • l ' l ~ I l I ' I I -t • I • • • • f I 


The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 5 
The Comedy of 
Steve Landesber11 
Sgt. Arthur Dietrich on "Barney Mlller' 
at O'Laughlin November 15 8:30p.m. 

Co-Sponsored by St. Marys &IUSB ADMISSION $5, Students $4 Purchase tickets at OHice of Special Programs 

SeniorClass 
Party 


at H.I.'s! 
(in Niles, Ml) 
Thursday, November 15 9pm-??? 
Rumors of Augusta closing untrue 
By CATHY ANN REYNOLDS 
News Staff 
There is no truth to the rumor that Augusta Hall will not be open to stu· dents next year because it will be taken over by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, said Pat Rissmeyer, director ofresidence life at Saint Mary's. 
Rissmeyer said she had "no notification this year" that Augusta Hall, which has 65 resident spaces, would not remain a student residence. 
She added "if Sister Karol Jack­owski, dean ofstudent affairs, did say Augusta would be closed to stu­dents," there would be a notification period of"one to two years." 
LeMans Hall President joanle Giblin said the topic was brought up at the Board ofGovernance meeting, and Vice President ofStudent Affairs Anne Marie Kollman said to "put a stop" to the rumour. 
Kim Kegowicz, McCandless Hall President, said many students believe "there are many spaces available, especially in Regina Hall," and this extra space may have caused students to presume Augusta was closing. 
In the event of there being many empty student rooms, Rissmeyer said, "we would examine the situa· tion carefully. Closing Augusta would not be the first choice." She said the Office of Residence Life would consider closing a wing of LeMans or another dorm. 
Augusta Hall offers a "specific ser­vice" and Residence Life does not want to hinder a student's choice of dorm, Rissmeyer said. "Students who love Augusta" should have the option to stay and voice their prefer­ence, she said. 
Rissmeyer said she does not know about the chances of Augusta being turned back over to the Holy Cross Sisters. She said, "If people have questions they can call and ask ques­tions." 
Ifthey ~e worried about a change in the residence life at Saint Mary's, Rissmeyer said, students should ·~call and say how they feel, rather than perpetuate these rumors." 

ND faculty publish book to explain letter 

By MIKE ELLIOTT 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame faculty members John Houck and Father Oliver Wil· Iiams recently published a book de­signed to aid understanding of the Bishops' Pastoral Letter. Titled "Catholic Social Teaching and the 
U.S. Economy: Working Papers for a Bishops' Pastoral," the book is a co­editorial effort. 
The book is a compilation of es­says from a broad spectrum of experts, from theologians and scholars to business and labor leaders. It follows the same se­quence of issues as the pastoral let-

to tl1e University Club 011 Thursday, Nove1nber 15th 
at  8:00P.M.  
Meet  our  execut ives and enjoy refreshments.  
Tell  us  about  your  career  goals  
and hear about  the exciting  

Executive Development Program at Lord & Taylor, America's leading fashion specialty store. Even if you have not previously thought of retailing as a career, you may want to know about the many interesting opportunities at Lord & Taylor. If you have proven abilities and a record of achievement, and look forward to the challenge of managing a profitable business in just three years' time, '"~~~•••••••••••••••••••._Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you. 


ter: human work and employment generation; the poor and disad­vantaged; U.S. trade with developing countries; and cooperation and planning for the U.S. economy. 
Last year, the U.S. bishops chal· lenged the nation with their letter on nuclear ethics, "The Challenge of Peace." Many American Catholics criticized the bishops for "chasing secular political goals while neglect­ing the need<; of their congregations for moral and spiritual nourish· ment," the authors said. 
The opening chapter of the new book challenges those Catholics. Ac­cording to Williams, "The vision of the Catholic Church is one of inte­gral humanism which considers the concrete person enmeshed in social and political structures." Williams argues the teachings of the Church assume "redemption affects all crea­tion, and efforts to overcome unjust aspects of the world are part of the spiritual task." 
Houck introduces each ofthe four parts of the book with a summary of the opinions of the authors represented there. The introduc­tions also include the past Church teachings in the four areas of con­cern. 
The book stresses the critical moral implications of unemploy­ment as well as the political and eco­nomic implications, In the section about the poor and welfare reform, the book claims the level of poverty is too high, and the poor should not have to withstand the brunt of cam­paigns to cut government expend!· tures. The pastoral letter expressed similar ideas, the authors said. 
The new book is co-published by Notre Dame's Ave Maria Press and The University Press ofAmerica. 

Multiple Sclerosis common among adults between 20-40 
By TERRY BLAND 
StaffReporter 
Multiple Sclerosis can attack anyone between 20 and 40 ye~s old, a time when most people are building careers and starting families, according to Wendy Con· don, patient service coordinator of the National Multiple Sclerosis Soci­ety. 
Multiple Sclerosis is a chronic, progressive disease of the central nervous system in which nerve fibers called myelin are destroyed causing messages to the brain to be slowed down or lost. 
"79 percent o{ people with MS have completed college," said Con­don. "The most active are the ones struck." 
"The emotional toll it takes on p.eople is very significant," Condon said. "It attacks selfesteem." 
Although scientists do not know the cause of MS, Condon said re· search is being conducted to deter­mine if the disease is· started by a virus or immune reaction. She added the disease is not contagious or he· reditary. 
There is higher incidence of MS in cool, temperate areas ofthe country, Condon said, especially In areas be· tween 40 and 60 degrees latitude. There are 1,070 northern Indiana residents in the local chapter of the 
Calendar 
continuedfrom page 1 
from the sale of the calendar go to the Y.M.C.A. Shelter for Battered Women in South Bend. 
The controversy, said December's Susan Downes, may stem from the fact that some Notre Dame students "make a big deal about anything new." 
Pictures in the Walsh and Farley­sponsored calendar appear in black 
National Multiple Sclerosis Society. Symptoms of MS include blurred vision, fatigue, muscular tremors, 
and  numbness.  People  with  MS,  
however,  live  a  normal  life span,  
Condon said.  

MS can take up to three years to detect, said Condon, with doctors using CAT scans and spinal tests to determine if a person has the disease. If someone has MS, their mental ability is usually not im· paired, she added. 
There is not a lot of government money put into discovering a cure for MS, according to Condon. "'Jbe cost of MS to society is phenomenal," said Condon. 
Condon gave the example ofa wo­man, who, in her last ye~ at law school, showed symptoms ofMS. "At first the doctor didn't diagnose anything," said Condon. "She finished law school and the symptoms got worse. She got a job in a law firm and when she told them she had MS she was immediately let go." 
Condon said there is no staffor of­fice for the National MS Society in South Bend, but volunteers help in fund raising. Forty percent of the money raised by the Northern Indiana Chapter of the National MS Society is given to the national office while 50 percent goes directly to re­search. 
and white and are accompanied by the selection's name and home town. 
The men chosen for this calendar were selected on the basis of "good looks," said Walsh committee chair· man Kelly Fitzgerald, but added the men "are typically guys of high achievement." 

Fitzgerald said the calendar is "complimentary to guys for being good looking," and the pictures are presented in an "artistically good" manner. 
~i~~~_()__l_._ll__t________________
T_hu-rs-da-y,_No-ve_m_be_r_ls_,1_98-4--pa-ge-6 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
f 
LaFortune to become a real studen·t center 
The moniker has adorned the building for years, but by 1986 LaFortune will 
finally deserve to be called a student center. The S3.7 million renovation and 
addition should satisfy the most critical needs of students: a place to meet, a 
place to eat and a place for entertainment. 
LaFortune currently is viewed as none ofthese. A: trip to The Huddle usually 
stems from missing a meal in the dining hall. Student groups must meet in 
obscure lecture rooms in Hayes-Healy and Nieuwland because the the center 
cannot accommodate large groups. And on weekends, the only sound one 
often hears coming out of Chautauqua is an echo. 
The need for an improved student center certainly is no great revelation. In 
1982, Student Body President Don Murday devoted much ofthe spring semes­
ter to studying student centers across the country, such as at Northwestern, 
Vanderbilt and Duke. He concluded that LaFortune's facilities were woefully 
inadequate. Later that year, Provost Timothy O'Meara acknowledged in the 
PACE report that social facilities on campus were outdated and outgrown. The 
committee recommended the "development ofa cluster ofsocial and cultural 
centers" in the central part of the campus. No one quite understood what a 
cluster was, and the project received a low priority -until last spring. 
The release ofthe alcohol policy in April and the subsequent protests forced 
the issue of social life to the fore. The policy reaffirmed the PACE report's 
desire to shift the focus ofstudent socializing away from the residence hall, and 
the students loudly affirmed that things definitely were amiss here with the 
social atmosphere. The protests were for more than just beer. 
Suddenly, the student center project moved to the top of the administra­
tion's "Things to Do" list. A report on the needs of a renovated and expanded 
center provided the basis for a preliminary set of plans by the South Bend 
architectural firm Cole Associates. 
Those drawings made their debut at a Student Senate meeting in early Sep­
tember. Since then, a committee offour students andJoni Neal, student activi­
ties director, has carefully reviewed each change in the proposed plan. John 
Heasly, a member ofthe group, says he is "satisfied with the input" the commit­
tee made. ­
From the look ofthe first set ofplans, the building appears promising indeed. 
The Nazz will leave the basement, replaced by remodeled student stores, the 
General Micro outlet, University Hairstylists, a travel service and the record 
store. A new stairway will lead from the atrium in the center of the building to 
the retail area. The addition to the east side ofthe building will allow for more 
dining space at The Huddle, in addition to an entirely new Huddle operation. 
A new club will be constructed on the second floor featuring a OJ booth, a dance floor, tables and a possible split-level seating area in the west alcove. The ·third floor will be transformed into a campus media center. Other amenities 
include an elevator and a main entrance facing the Fieldhouse Mall. 
But the success of the building does not lie in the mortar and the brick. 
LaFortune must be used effectively in order to avoid becoming an expensive 
white elephant. The PACE report emphasized this point two years ago: "A 
facility by itself will not be enough. Innovative and creative leadership, think­
ing and organization by the University will also be essential, both in the plan­
ning ofa facility as well as in its use." 
Such responsibility falls directly on the shoulders of the Student Activities 
Board, Student Government and on the Office ofStudent Affairs. 
Astudent always should be able to find something to do in LaFortune. Regu­
lar activities must be carried on there. One ofthe reasons that four-for-one beer 
night has done so well at Senior Bar is everyone knows that it is on Wednesday 
night. Many people go to bars simply because others also will be there. 
LaFortune needs to establish that sort of consistency. 
For special events, the leaders of the Student Activities Board must ag­
gressivelyattempt to get the word out to students. Moreover, some events may 
require marketing, not just publicity. Student Government could assist this 
effort by boosting the Ombudsman's meager budget, allowing it to operate as a 
true information service, rather than a flyer stand. 
LaFortune may never become the perfect student center, but in two years it 
may just become a pretty darn good one. The building itself bears no per­
manent stigma-it just requires a little S3.7 million plastic surgury and a dose of 
innovative planning. The first part of the remedy has begun. Student Activities 
needs to be ready to finish the task. 
-The Observer 


A forgotten mandate and HPC pizza parties 
As another season comes to an end, the time has come for new topics of discussion. The last leaves of the political and football cam­paigns are dropping to the ground. Looking back, it has not been a particularly good fall for Gerrys. 
Last spring, when the leaves were springing forth life, the "primary" focus of the student body was the alcohol policy of the campus, not the economic policy ofthe country. At the dining halls, we chatted about classes, not can­didates. Predictability governed our lives. 
As the fall of 1984 approached, we began talking about the Bomb, and it had nothing to do with football. Increasingly, we uttered the word "college" in the electoral sense. Campus 
Joseph Murphy 
here I stand 

voices raised a new North-South struggle-one between countries, instead of quads. Football 
pep rallies gave  way  to  ones  for  political  
teams.  
During  the  last  three  months,  I  often  

thought of the forgotten candidates. You re­member-the ones we elected to run student government. We gave them a mandate to lead just like the one we gave the Gipper last week. 
So where have they been leading us, you ask? 
To my surprise, the forces of student gov­ernment are heading us in the right direction. We, the students, are passengers in their taxi cab. Knowing that at any moment we could be swallowed by a huge pothole, Rob Bertino took a student driving course before taking of­fice and has avoided many of the accidental policies ofhis limp predecessor. 
To the Student Senate's credit, it just passed what promises to be an excellent alternative to drunk driving -the new Dry Driving Club. With more students going off campus to en­tertain themselves, this idea may prove to be a life-saver. 
The recently released Faculty Course Evaluations are a positive plus for students. The FCEs were prepared by student govern­ment. 
Another bright spot has been the renewed vigor of the class officers. The trips to the dunes set the tone for things to come. One of the groups committed to excellence is the sophomore class's officers. Their early proj­ects included a nursing home program, a pic­nic with Saint Mary's sophomores, a speaker 
series (which has included Father Hesburgh) 
and a monthly newsletter. I hope other class 
officers are working as hard for their peers. 

When students have a question or problem, 
they can now confidently call the Om­
budsman Organization which has scored 
some impressive victories with the flawless 
handling ofthe Mock Election and the popular 
Gripe Nights -the most recent of which 
produced 72 complaints concerning campus 
life. Striving for closer relations between stu­
dents and their government, Ombudsman 
Director Henry Sienkiewicz personally 
responded to the complaints by writing the 
students and telling them what Obud had 
done to assist in the resolution of their prob­
lems. 

Also, Operation Brainstorm began this week. This Obud program seeks to put stu­dent imagination to work for the campus. Sienkiewicz and his crew are to be com­mended for their quiet leadership. 
Unfortunately, the pettiness for which stu­dent government is noted reappeared last week. At the HPC meeting, the hall presidents debated whether to continue to supply them­selves with pizza (usually Domino's) and soft drinks at our expense. By a 15 to nine vote, these campus leaders choose to keep the pizza and beverages as an after-meeting refresher. Now, I do not mind them enjoying themselves after one of their "rigorous" meetings, but I cannot believe they would be so frivilous with the funds entrusted to them. 'The council ignored the protest of St. Edward's Hall Presi­dent Duane Lawrence and will continue this abuse. Cost estimates indicate each "dinner" diminishes the host hall's funds by SSO. 
Ifthey want pizza, they should pay for it out of their own pockets. 
The worst part about the HPC's pizza par­ties is that its irresponsibilty damages the ac­tions of other campus groups who are doing their jobs responsibly. Is the price ofa few piz­zas worth sacrificing the principles of service the HPC is supposed to reflect? 
All I can say is that Domino's had better get 
that pizza to the HPC meeting in under 30 
minutes since that's about how long the HPC 
meetings last. 

I have a warning to the HPC: With the Nov. 6 election behind us, student government will be watched even closer. I have an idea for Op­eration Brainstorm: Let the HPC eat cake. 
joe Murphy is a sophomore govern­ment/~nternational relations major atNotre Dame and is the assistant Viewpoint editor at The Observer. 
Viewpoint wants to bear from you. Ifyou 
bave an opinion, brillant insight or humorous comment concerning anything appearing in The Observer just send a let­ter to P.O.Box Q. 

Viewpoint 
Policy 
-
______________________________________________________________________________________________.. 
VieWP-Oint Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 7 ,, 
Learning a language is learning about yourself 
Learning a language is learning about your­sdf. If we realize that language is a mirror of the pt·rson or pt·ople who speak it, we should also realize that there is nothing more reward­ing, more interesting and, at the same time, more enjoyable than learning a language, any language besides the mother tongue. When we learn a language, we learn about people who speak it and about their culture. In learn­ing about other people, we actually arc learn­ing about ourselves because people become 
Dilaver Berberi 
guest column 
more aware of who they really arc when they discover other pcopk who arc different from them. 
II is a fact that most people feci proud when they arc able to say something in another lan­guage. We should rn·all the joy and pride on the face ofJohn F. Kennedy when he told the lkrlincrs,"Ich bin cin Berliner." The joy and pride in language is reflected not only In the foreigner speaking but also in the native lis­tening to the spt•akcr. People arc delighted to hcar someone speak in their tongue even when that person does not speak it well. 
Knowing another language is also very re....-.·arding because it opens new channels of friendship and new horizons of opportunities in many fields. Moreover, learning a foreign language Is entertaining because its sounds and spdllng and its words and meanings make us think, wonder and often laugh because of the novelty. 'llten why is It that some people find it so frustrating to learn another language? 
It is true that some people learn more quickly than others. This premise applies to any field of knowledge and, therefore, to lan­guage also. There is no such thing as "I cannot learn a foreign language." Any human being who is exposed to a foreign language for a cer­tain time will learn it sooner or later. It all depends on the individual, his attitude towards the language and learning and the method and techniques oflearning and teach­ing languages. 
However, learning a foreign language is not that simple. In order to achieve some degree offluency, one must be born with some talent for learning languages, in the same way that one is born with the talent of a poet, an artist or a singer. That is why we see people who pick up languages quickly and others who struggle with the language for years and never master it. However, talent or no talent, we all can learn a language, just as we all can sing. But a singer is a singer! And since we all, for one reason or another, want or must learn a language, the answer lies in making the learn­ing and the teaching process interesting, ef­fective and enjoyable. Why do people learn languages? The goals for learning a language can be many, but for our purpose we can reduce them to three major categories. 
Students learn languages in school as part of the curriculum and may or may not use that language after school. 
People learn languages in order to read and eventually write the language. People learn languages to use them in nor­mal, everyday communication. All these goals of learning require different 
methods and techniques of learning anp teaching. lbat is, one's goal for learning a par­ticular language determines the method of teaching and learning. At this point, however, it is necessary to understand the difference between learning a language and learning about a language. 
Learning a language means learning how to 
use the language verbally in every day com­
munication. 

Learning about a language means learning how to use more efficiently what one already knows and, especially, learning to read and write the language, to appreciate literature and other facets ofculture, to enrich one's vo­cabulary and to study the make-up and workings of a language -in other words, to study the formal grammar. 
Learning a language by using it means that the more one uses the language in speaking and in listening, in reading and in writing, the more one learns it. A convincing analogy of the process oflearning language in this way is that oflearning how to play a game, any game. The more a player plays under the guidance of an able coach, the better a player he becomes. The player learns the rules ofthe game uncon­sciously as he plays. The same process should apply to language-~eaching and learning. The students, under an able instructor, should be drilled again and again in speaking the lan­guage, understanding it, reading it and eventu­ally writing it. During this process, the students are bound to make mistakes. Even native speakers make mistakes. 
A teacher who becomes upset when stu­dents make mistakes has a problem, and stu-
P.O.BoxQ 
Why is the library bell so loud and so long? 
Dear Editor: 
I am sending up a plea to any administrator 
who can answer this simple question for me: 
"Why docs the library insist on ringing that 
obnoxious bell (for what seems like an eter­
nity) at ll:35 p.m. every night of the week?" 
'lbt·library Is supposed to close at ll:45. But of 
course, it is impossible to study after 11:35, be­
~:ausc you cannot write with your hands over 
your ears. Is the bell a device for punishing 
students who wish to study in the library until 
closing? Or is it mcrt'ly a device for punishing 
throats who even consider staying that late? 
Maybe tht· guards are deaf and it docs not bot­
her them, or perhaps they are extremely sallis­
tic. Why, for heavens sake, must they ring the 
bell for over a minute? 
I realize that it is to remind studt·nts that the 
library Is about to close, but why must they 
ruptun· eardrums to get the point across? Is it 
all p;~rt ofa big psychology expcrlmenl to de­
termine the effects of noise pollution? Please, 
all I want is a logical answer to this question. 
Can anybody help me? 
Scott C. Wallace Keenan Hall 
Blatant exploitation of men looks bad for all 
Dear Fdilor: 
I was approacht.•d hy a girl from Farley Hall about p1'>ssibly appt·aring in the "Men of Notre Damt· Calt-ndar." Ofcourse I said no, but now I opt'll my Obsen·er ;md rcad some poor letter from "Concerned Representatives of Farley", whoever they arc, and find that they were picking the men ba.~ed only on looks. I am outraged. Who the heck are they anyway? 'Jbey want to find twelve men that they can exploit in the calendar for their own profit. Are they giving any money to charities? Heck no. Are they paying the guys anything for ap­pearing? Heck no. 
On a campus that works so hard for male rights, how can we tolerate this blatant ex­ploitation? Is what they do right just because they are honest about it? I keep my room clean, and change my sheets every other week, but did they approach me based on my accomplishments? Heck no. Just for my looks. 
When I read that letter, why, I was so mad that I almost choked on my broccoli cheese casserole. I was so depressed about the whole thing that I didn't get any sleep in my next class. It has even driven me to start drinking beer. I just cannot believe that anyone would attempt anything so evil as trying to exploit someone a.~ innocent as me. And somehow it is all acceptable just because they admit they are doing something wrong. 
I for one am outraged at this blatant ex­ploitation of men just for their looks. It is simply intolerable. I demand an apology! 
Bob McMenamin Holy Cross Hall 

Dr. Rai's views are very distorted and baseless 
Dear Editor: 
I was amazed to read Dr. Rai's views in the article in The Observer on .:-.lov. 7. 
In my opinion the theme of his story was "How the Sikhs are being discriminated in In­dia." It appears to me that he could have been a very good fiction writer. Most of the facts he presented to support his biased views were distorted and totally baseless. 
The president ofIndia is a Sikh, as were the guards who were supposed to protect the life of prime minister Indira Gandhi. Unless the Sikhs were trusted and treated fairly they could O?t have been in these important posi­
tions. In fact, the majority of Sikhs in India 
have a very good relationship with Hindus and 
they do not feel the same way as Rai. 
His comparison of the Golden Temple to 
the Vatican is meaningful only from religious 
perspectives. But when Sikh leaders have 
failed ·to prevent the Golden Temple, which 
has been under their control, from becoming 
a staging area for violent Sikh terrorists, this 
comparison no longer holds. 
Rai attempts to justify Sikh autonomy by claiming that they are responsible for 60 per­cent of our food production. This is not only silly but simply untrue. According to India 1983 India produces 133 million tons offood grain and Punjab's contribution is 13 million tons. 
Rai's article reminds me or a recent article about the behavior of the Sikhs abroad by a fellow American Sikh in an Indian weekly, which stated, "It is a kind of leadership, however, that has appeared on the scene just recently and claims to speak for Sikhs everywhere. Many of these people left Punjab and India decades ago to settle down abroad, mostly for economic betterment. And they have done well for themselves. As they now sense an opportunity ofleadership roles, they are seeking to ride the tiger ofSikh outrage to propel them to such positions. They are busy forging alliances with like-minded persons in Punjab and have formed several organizations mostly in Britain, Canada and here in the United States, aimed solely at keeping the Sikh anger at a boiling point so it can be used to futher their own political ambitions." 
It would be silly to pretend that the Hindus are vestal virgins in this orgy ofviolence. Cer­tain elements have shown that they can butcher and burn as well as the rest. Many in­nocent people have suffered. this must end. We should realize that, ifIndia is to survive we must stand together because divided we will surely fall. After all, no man is an island. 
Atanu Blswas Graduate student 

dents who are embarrassed to say something in a language for fear of making mistakes will never learn that language. This process of learning, therefore, should be spontaneous, natural and without fear or pressure. It should be enjoyable and fun, like playing a game. 
Now, the question of grammar arises. How can one usc a language without knowing its grammar? Based on this assumption, then, some language teachers feed the students, day in and day out, rules of grammar. 'Ibis is a waste of time and causes unnecessary frustra­tion for both the students and the teacher, who loses touch with reality and becomes overly grouchy. But this docs not mean that students should not be taught the mechanics which make language work, that is, grammar. But the rules of grammar should be fed naturally and spontaneously without pushing too hard because, when rules arc forced into the head ofthe student, the rules usually enter one ear and exit from the other. 
Learning a language by studying means that one must first learn the rules of grammar before doing anything with the language. This type of learning is a must for scholars, graduate students and prospective teachers, who should also speak the language. But stu­dents who learn languages in this manner learn to read and write well but, in most cases, these students cannot speak the language. This Is why grammar is for scholars, for teach­ers and for the birds. 
DilaverBerberl Is an associateprofessor of Ungutsttcs and languages at Satnt Mary's College. 
America's best defense is a conventional one 
Dear Editor: 
In response to la.~t Thursday's VIewpoint ar­ticle concerning the threat posed by nuclear weapons. I feel that the solution suggested, that of waiting for "effective counter­measures" to be developed, is an inadequate solution to the political and moral dilemma at hand. In preserving the best Interests of the United States, the maintaining of a strong defense is, ofcourse, paramount. Yet, for ana­tion so dedicated to Its own preservation, we have waited dangerously long already for ac­ceptable defensive weapons, as well as for realistic nuclear arms control agreemcnls be­tween the United States and the Soviet Union. 
The United States possesses the capability to alleviate the threat posed by nuclear weap­ons without jeopardizing the defense of this country. Initially, we can reduce the likelihood of nuclear accidents by ceasing to take the risks associated with nuclear testing. Then by slowly phasing in conventional weap­ons, as distinguished from nuclear ones, we will eliminate the lethal role played by this country in the nuclear arms race. By basing our deterrem strength on conventional means of warfare, the United States will not disrupt its political or military stability. 
Although there is an imminent need to build up our defensive capabilities, 1 see the return to conventional weapons as being the most comprehensive move toward abolishing the threat ofnuclear confrontation. 
Danny Strub Stanford Hall 

Letters to the editor may be mailed to The Observer, P. 0. Box Q or may be hand delivered to our office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. 



The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edltor-m-Chlef . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manage(. . . Dave Ta1clet Managing Edt/or _ .. __ Mark Worscheh Controller. ... Maripat Horne 
The ObserJer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . . . . . . ... Sarah Ham11ton Advertising Manager . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac an.:J Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly News Edt/or .... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported as Sam/ Mary's Ed1/or . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager. .. Kevin Williams accurately and as objeCtively as possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion Sports Editor. _.. Michael Sullivan Production Manager. _. Chr1s Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. CommentarieS, letters and the lns1de Column V1ewpomt Editor . . ... Dave Grote Project Manager . .. Amy Stephan present rhe v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Features Ed1tor . Mary Healy commun1ty. anrf the free expressiOn of vary111g op1n1ons on campus, through letters. Photo Editor. . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 


Accent 

John Affleck 
features staff writer 
T
he drunk townie at the table next to us gave me strange looks all night. Finally he came over to where my roommate and I were sitting. 
"Wha's that in your ear, boy?" 
"Uh... it's an earring." 
"Is ybu queer, boy?" 
"No-I just wear an earring." 
"Maybe in New York or New Orleans you's is okay-but in Indiana you's is queer." "Thanks for letting me know, sir." 
Males, like myself, who wear earrings can still provoke misconceptions: guys who wear earrings take drugs, or they're gay or ef­feminate, or they're trying to destroy social norms. However, earrings today are much less taboo than in the past because there has been a substantial increase in the number of guys wearing them. The reason for this increase is a little unclear. The unisex influ­ence ofsome progressive music groups from Europe-like The Human teague and Culture Club-may be the drive behind the growth of earring popularity among males. 
"It probably started when cavemen first got into animal bones," one guy told me, "Neanderthal men, but bones through their noses and ears." 
Why do more guys wear earrings now than in the past? Are they making a statement? The answers vary: "I always wanted to have one 'cause I thought they looked good on some people," saidJim Nelson, a senior from Washington, D.C.. "I got it two years ago in France, where it was much more accep­table." 
"At first it was different but now it's a trend -so it's not much ofa statement. At home I see thirteen-year-old kids wearing break dancing pants and earrings. I think, 'If there's any similarity between them and me I'm getting rid of my earring right now.' " 
Most guys realize that the earring is a little offbeat-especially at Notre Dame. Still, they don't wear it solely to be different. "I wear it to look sharp," said Scott Ebersol, a senior from Anaheim, California. 
"It was an urge," said Dan Kinnucan, a sophomore from the Chicago area. "Not to be different-I wasn't speaking out against the madness ofthis world, it's just a great con­versation piece with girls." 
Personally, I find the earring is a good conversation piece with women, but not always because they like it. "Women think it's repulsive," said Mike Donais, a senior who has had an earring for well over two years. "Girls here at Notre Dame don't like to put things through parts of their bodies. It's like getting an injection or some­thing. Maybe it's Freudian." 
Most guys rarely get hassled about their earrings. "I've gotten a Jot ofstares from across the room," said Donais, "but I enjoy that." 
The only serious embarassment the earring causes occurs around older people, like parents. "My dad said, 'Ifyou're gonna wear an earring -then I'm gonna wear your mother's purse,' "said Kinnucan. "And then we walked into a really nice resturaunt like that-I was very embarassed. I couldn't believe he did it-but I guess he couldn't believe I had an earring." 
Uke parents, job interviewers may warrant the removal of the earring. "Interviewers are put ill at ease by the earring, and it's not good to get those people ruffled," said Donais. "Earrings are a little way ofgetting away from 'the herd' but you don't want to be too different." 
No one I talked to, including myself, wore their earring at their summer job. Kinnucan stopped wearing his altogether after last summer. "I got tired ofputting it in and out every day -that was a hassle so I stopped wearing it. There was no emotional attach­
ment, so I didn't stay in bed all day 'cause I couldn't wear my earring." 

Diamonds are easily the most popular type ofearring among men. Small hoops and gold studs are unpretentious, and will match almost any style ofclothing. but diamonds are classier than hoops. They are also a more suitable earring for SYRs and formals. 
Guys generally look down on "pirate earrings" -anything gaudy or excessively large. "Nobody wants to wear a fish hook around," two men said. 
Wearing the earring in the left ear signifies heterosexuality. Ebersol is unusual because he has two earrings in his left ear. "I did it on a bet," he said. "If I got another one two friends of mine Without earrings had to get them. I figured I had one already so why not?" 
Whatever the reason for wearing them, guys with earrings enjoy having them -they look good and are still somewhat novel. "It's really nothing," said Nelson. "That's what it should be." 
"It's like people who have weird hairstyles,"said Kinnucan. "I think it's very creative." 




Tom Pavliqk Mike Varlotta Pat Mclaughlin 

Thursday, November 1 5, 1984 -page 8-9 
'Instincts' made with void ~f love 
Tim Adams 
features staff writer 
T
ake a close look at Romeo Void's name. What docs it mt·an to you? If you have even a per­functory knowledge ofShakt·spcarc, you can pretty much figure out that, loosdy translated, it means "tht· ahscn<.'l' of love." Instead of love, all that exists is a void, a Romeo void. This b whatlnsttncts. Romeo Void's latest wax outing, is made of. 
Featuring a r;tther ohcst· female singer with a nkc voil·t·. Romeo Void look.~ a hit strangt· hut still sounds rdativcly normal. This San FranciSt·o quintt·t relit·~ heavily on tht· stn·ngths of Debora Iyaii's voi<.'C and lknjamin llossi's ,,axophonc playing. They mad<.· a dance-dub favorite in ll)H.2 t·alkd "Nn-cr Say Ncv<.·r," hut they never rt•plicatcd this sut'l'CSS. Rn:cntly, though. they havt· ht·cn permeating the airwaves withlnstim·t.\·' first singk, "A Girl in Trouhlc (Is a Temporary Thing)." And dcspitt· some overly laid hat·k pt·rformatll't·s, the rest oflnslincts is prt·lly good, 100. 
I'll discuss my main complaint first, as it b wholistic in nature and not rt·prcst·nt;ttive of just one song. A.~ I mentioned hcfort·, the hand is too laid hack at times. I don't mean that tht•y an· sloppy or lazy, hut at n·rtain times tht· drumming and guitar playing arc quite tepid. Aaron Smith, the drummer, taps his high­hat cymhol and hits the snare drum with such a cursory manner that il is aggravating. Rardy, if ever, docs ht· add any tHis to his playing, and tht· force with which he hits the drums is almost nonexistent. Listen to "Out on My Own," "Just Too Easy," "Hilly's Birthday" or "Your Ufe is a l.ic" for proof. Peter Woods's guitar remains hidden for most of the album, and that is too had, hccaust· for most rock groups, strong guitar playing can he an invaluahk asset. 
Other than that, Void comes 
across as a competent hand with a penchant for the negative side of romance. 'Jbe songs seem to reflect the viewpoint of Iyall, as she sings ahout the failings ofher men and her desire for independence. On "Out on My Own," she sings about a tough girl who doesn't want to be tied down with marriage or even real love: 
I u•as the girt u•ho tore up the streets House on the hill was not my dream I u•as the one u•hohad to run free I/ad to run tl'i/d, nobody running u•ith me Out on my ou•n 
To this girl, this was the life she wamt·d. The chorus of"l thought I knew what I wanted, thought I got what I needed" casts some douht on this, though. She thought she knt·w what she wanted, she thought she got what she needed. But did she? 
"Just Too Easy" is the LP's mancatcr cut, with Iyaii scorning her lover in her famous airily­produced voice: 
Hou•fair can I be? How big's Ibis mistake? You have a cigarette, and I have a headache Nothing makes me lone/i£>r Than a phone call to you You're waitingfor nothing To be nowhere soon 
She has the upper hand on her lover hccausc, as she sings, he's always falling apart, and it was just too easy to break his heart. In the end, she finally docs leave him. 
Side two begins and ends with the two best songs on the alhum, "A Girl in Trouble (Is a Temporary "lbing)" and the title track. Con­cerning the former, the hand actu­ally gets into the song and works a 

Features briefs 
Fliers -to be read or to be wasted? 
NAMI'A,Id;tho-A $100 reward of­
fered on five of H,OOO fliers dis­
tributed for last wct.•k's gt·neral 
clct·tion has gont· unclaimed, 
kaving a candidate wondering whe­
ther pt·opk rt·ad campaign 
literaturt.·. 
l.co Taylor wrote on five of his 
flkrs that tht.· holder would rt'<.'civc 
$100 hy rt·turning it·to him Satur­
day. 
Taylor then waited all day at his 
oft'kt·, hut nobody showed up. 
"l.co wantt·d to prove a point," he said. "No matter how hard you work, going from door to door, talking with pt.·opk, they don't pay that much attention," said Hill Gosvcnor, Taylor's campaign committee co­chairman. 
Taylor, a lkmocrat, lost his hid to unseat Republican Canyon County Commissioner Glenn Koch. 
Burgers and buns 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -It may be just ground beefon a hun to you and llll', hut to c;uyla lkscy, the ham­hurgcr is his life's passion. 
'lbt· Indiana llnivt·rsity linguistics instrudor has hct·n studying the hamhurger for .20 years, sampling versions around the globe. And now 
he's sharing his experiences in a hook, Hamburger for America and the World. 
"I traveled around the United 
States every year, visiting small 
cities, villa ..hamhurgcr parlors, and 
I made the ohservation that the real 
'hrccding' places of the hamburger 
arc the small parlors, not big com­
pany outlets," said Decsy, 59. 
He has tried the Dallas Burger in Varmland, ln. He's eaten the Waikiki Burger in Albuquerque, N.M. he's had the Brontosaurus Burger in Dinosaur, Colo. 
Cologne 'driven' to success 
Associated Press 
CHASE CITY, Va. -Can truck drivers accustomed to the smell of diesel fumes appreciate a fragrance just for them? 
Entrepreneur Marshall Bank is hctting they can, marketing Long Haul cologne for truck drivers at S 16 for a 4-ounce hottle. 
Bank, whose company also manufactures work clothes for drivers, hcgan deliveries last week to ahout .200 truck stops. He said Tuesday that 1.2 machines called misting devices would be sent out to selected truck stops around the country, where they will put out a whiff of the product every I 5 
.. 
little, and its obvious catchiness makes it irrcsistable. "Instincts," however, is a very slow song that features some touching keyboards. Reminiscent of U2 at their most tender, it succeeds on its own un­pretentious terms. It would also make a terrific slow dance song. 
The other tracks arc not very remarkable, for the most part. "Going to Neon," the album's sole instrumental, scores with its evocative sax playing, but crumbles a little because ofsome pretentious, "mysterious" whisperings in the mid<.lle. The chorus of"Billy's Birthday," which goes "It would not be right to miss it," is memorable for the fact that Iyaii Iiterally breathes the first word, instead of blurting it out normally. "Your Life is a Lie" pleased me because it was more lyrically direct than the other songs, and so it offered a change of pace. 

Overall, listening toInstincts will probably elicit a response like "Yeah, that was okay, but so what?" Upon repeated listcnings, though, you might develop personal favorites, as I did. Instincts is not a classic, hut simply a competent effort from a competent group. 

'Failsafe'-our future? 
'""'!~
minutes. 

Karen B. McCloskey ;;/4 

The cologne is billed as "tbe best· 

features staff writer 
selling fragrance on America's high­
~111Jd 
ways." "It's masculine all right -has an 
Movies 
odor all its own," said trucker Mickey Dolquery, 50, ofCedar Bluff, Ala. "But do you think all truck 

F
ailsafe, a movie made some one to blame for the nuclear drivers should smell alike?" 
twenty-seven years ago depicts nightmare that we face, then who the consequences ofan accidental do you rely on to prevent it ? 
nuclear attack by the United States Maybe this articlt.· is getting too on the Soviet Union. somber for a movie review, hut KANSAS CITY. Mo. -For Laura 
Question in air 

Briefly, a false alarm sends U.S. Air then the purpose ofFailsafe may Gault, the big question came from 
Force squadrons on their assigned have hecn to force us to think about out of the hlue -the blue yonder, 
bombing missions into the Soviet the situation that faces us every that is. 
Union. All squadrons are recalled minute. 'Inc movie is nearly three On Sunday, during halftime at the 
except one. It cannot be contacted decades old. The nuclear dilemma foothall game between the Kansas 
because of a computer malfunction. is older than the movie. And it's just City Chiefs and Houston Oilers, a 
The tension heightens as all efforts as scary. Failsafe forces us to look plane came out of the cast and 
are made to stop the squadron from at our reliance upon machines. It soared over Arrowhead Stadium. 

Trailing behind it, in 5-foot-hi red letters, were the words: "Laura ­will you marry me? •Lantz."With thousands of spectators cheering her on, the 25-year-old Ms. Gault said afterward, how could she say no? 
Her fiance, Lantz Welchf Kansas City lawyer, said he came up with the idea for the uncommon proposal a few months ago. It was a fitting way to pop the question, he said, for a re­lationship that some might consider uncommon. 
"I guess you would call ours a May-to-December relationship," said Welch, who refused to say how old he is. 

reaching its target, Moscow. 
As far as the technical achieve­ments of the film go, close-up face shots and intricate lighting effects convey the psychological strain of the situation. By switching scenes from the White House to the Pent­agon War Room to Strategic Air Command in Omaha to the inflight bomber squadron, the director lets us see the motivations and actions ofall the players. 
No single player is solely respon­sible for the nightmarish scenario which is taking place. It is every­one's fault and no one's. 
I guess that's what makes the movie so frightening. Ifthere's no 
warns that the false sense ofsccur­
ity bred hy this reliance could lead 
to our destruction. 
It is almost thirty years later and the message remains the same. Accidents can happen, there must he some way to prevent the conse­quenccs from getting out of hand. 
Failsafe is a movie that should be seen. Its message is timely and its cr;lftsmanship is superb. No, it is not fun to watch. But, the consc­quences ofignoring our dilemna are unspcakahlc. 
Oh yes, Moscow does get bombed at the end of the movie. 
And so docs New York City. 


The Observer 
Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 1 0 
The Ohserr•er Notre Dame olfino. locatt:d on the third tloor of Lafortune Student Ct:nra. acc<:pts classifkd adverti~ing from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday The Obserr•t·r Saint Mary's oftke. located on the third tloor of fl~ggar College Center. acc<:pts dassifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until :\p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Dt:adlint: for n<:xt-tlay dassilktls is 5 p.m. All dassifit:ds must he prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge i; I 0 nont' per fin· charac­
Classifieds 
ters per day. 


I NEED A RIDE TO THE UNIVERSITY ATTENTION THROATS FOR SALE: Tl I DESPERATELY NEED PSU G.A.'S. BRIAN'S SONG BRIAN'S SONG The moment we have all been waiting for: OF ILLINOIS NEXT WEEKEND (THE Programmable 59 calculator complete CALL CHRIS AT 1072. BRIAN'S SONG: FRIDAY NIGHT AT HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY KEN "WOMEN
NOTICES 16TH TO THE 18TH).IF YOU CAN HELP with battery pack, Master Library. mag­ENG.AUD WONT BE SAFE Now·· DiCE ME OUT, I WILL PAY FOR MY SHARE netic cards, and leather case. List price $$Help!Need2St.tix to Penn St. Call Patty OF THE GAS, ETC. CALL MAUREEN AT $255. Best offer. Dave 2002. SMC5254 FIXX TIX GREAT SEATS 3 4·SALE CALL Yvonne, MaryBeth, Debbie, MaryJo, 2900 IF YOU ARE INTERESTED. 2676 Chris, Anne, Lucia. Debb1e. Ellen. John. 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
GOING TO CHICAGO FOR BREAK? FOR SALE: 4 PENN STATE G.A.'S. Frank, Scott, George, Mark, and WANTED: 2-8 PENN ST. GA'S BIG THE STUDENT ACT.BOARD AN­GREAT SEATS! ACCEPTING OFFERS THE CHEAPEST ONE WAY ROUTE TO Raultney ... Thanks for the very very BEST TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
REWARD GUARANTEED CALL TOM NOUNCES ITS $10 ONE WAY FARE TO BETWEEN 3-6 P.M. ON THURSDAY CHICAGO COSTS ONLY $10 IF YOU 21st Brrthday a girl could ever ask tor ... ! 2111 NOW! AND FROM CHICAGOS OHARE AIR· 11/15 ONLY. WILL BE SOLD AT 6 P.M. TAKE THE STUDENT ACT.BOARD can't ever thank you all enough! Much TYPING CALL CHRIS 234·81117 
't>ORT. BUSES LEAVE N.D. AT 1:30 P.M. TO HIGHEST BIDDER. CALL DON AT BUSES. LEAVES N.D. WED ..NOV.21ST love. Cathleen RIDERS NEEDED TO WEST PAIPITTS ON WED.,NOV.21st AND BRING YOU 2166. AT 1:30 p.m. and AND BRiNGS YOU
PRO. TYPE Over 14 yrs. Of experience. 
AREA. LEAVING WED. 11/21 5:00P.M. BACK TO N.D. FROM CHICAGO AT 7 BACK TO N.D. ON SUNDAY,NOV. 25th Andy--Why didn't you bring your stunning Computerized service. Dissertations, law CALL LISA 1332 P.M.,SUNDAY,NOV.25th.ITS ONLY $10 NEED: 4 PSU TICKETS BAD. JOHN AT 7P.M. SIGNUPS AT RECORD physique to the dance Saturday night?We 
papers. student papers 277·5833. 
EACH WAY AND ITS THE BEST PRiCE 3467 STORE. were so disappointed!Oid anyone ever tell 1 d•p.,.tlly need • rlda to Chicago IN TOWN. SIGN UPS IN RECORD you how good you look without your shirt EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL thla weekend. My brother's apartment STORE. REAL WOMEN DON'T SLEEP WiTH on?THE VIEW WAS GREAT--BUT IT 
hasn't been cleaned since the last time I WAS EVEN BETTER WHEN YOU WERE visited. Can leave alter 1 on Friday. Call ROSSIGNOL FP 190 COMPETiTiON PERSONALS IN THE SHOWER !I!--TWO ADMIRERS TYPING Margaret 272·7864. SKIS WITH SALOMON 727 BINDINGS GO NO CREW!!! GOOD LUCK TO OUR Jackie Boggs EXCELLENT CONDITION CALL MIKE NOVICE CREWMATES IN PHILLY. I desperately need one Penn Swt• stu· 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009 LAMBIES !!! 
277-7436 OR 232·2778 Proofreader Wanted! Preter Experience. 
684-8793 dent ticket. If you can help. please can LOGAN CENTER n•da STUDENT TIX 
Must be meticulous! Phone 236-8047. FOR SALE ONE HAYES Maura at 2694. for PENN ST. Coll•ctlng 11 DINING THE ONLY GATHERING THAT MAT· TEAS!!! SATURDAY NIGHT• HEY
SMARTMODEM MODEL 300 IN

NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES HALLS WED-FRI.
INTERESTED IN LAYING OUT THE U2 ...BE THERE..ARE YOU GOING TOORIGINAL BOX. TWO HUNDERD DOL· 
2n-6045 
OBSERVER? Come to an IntroductOry BE THERE TOO? 
LARS. ORIGINAL COST $289 PLUS NAPERVILLE, TAX AND SHIPPING. THIS IS A AUTO 
PICKUP AND DEUVERY l•yout m•llng Thuraday, November 
C.nter of the Unlverae DIAL·AUTO ANSWER MODEM. CON­
15, at 7:00 In the Ob...-ver ottlc... What do you get when you add the 
CALORIES in a glass Of water plus a aNEED RIDE TO CiNCINNATI OVER TACT DAVID RIPLEY, BOX 4, DEPT OF I need a human life form to transport me to 
Need ride to CLEVELAND leaving TUES­LYONS 8TH GRADER? SO MILLION 
OPERATION BRAINSTORM BREAK. CAN LEAVE WEDNESDAY. BIOLOGY,UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE Naperville, Ill., whenever convenient. Will
DAY NOV. 20Call Miriam4174 CALORIES.
DAME NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 

WILL SHARE USUAL CALL DAN AT share driving and expenses and corporal 
An IIIN Cont•t 2275 -PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!! pleasures, which we ol the planet Norgon 
"PURPLE IS NOW MY FAVORiTE "They come from bushes." 
have heard much about. Call "John" at
COLOR." Pickman· 1487 
CMhPrlz•l Riders needed toSI. Loula, leaving Tues. 2483. around 4:00, coming back Sunday. Call TICKETS 
(Cthulhu told me) 

Nov. 12th to 20th Maripat or Jennifer at 277 ·2851. TOO AND KATHY: CONGRATULA· liONS ON YOUR ENGAGEMENT!!!. Application• •v•ll8ble •t Need ride for two to Can-PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272·6306 YOU WERE LOOKING GREAT. 
08UDdeek& Darby'a ton/Columbus/Guernsey Co tor Kelly Fitzgerald, come on down! tues..11/20 call John 283·3167,or Kathy MY NAME IS VINNIE. NEED RIDE TO ANN ARBOR THIS 283-3781 There, now that the exciting stuff is out Of WEEKEND? CALL MARIA AT 284-5344 
the way, 1 think you should know that I FOR MORE INFORMATION!!! 
THE SAINT LOUIS CLUB IS COMING HeLF.-:Neiio-R'IoE..FFioM··i:iosT-aN'·:ro need two Penn State GA's, preterably From the KING of CLUBS comes the best NO NOV24 OR 25 E02187 before the game on the 17th. Call VINNIE of food. At our concession stand on the KAREN: HAVE YOU EVER HAD A PER­
at 2538. That's VINNIE. JEN BUD
New Mall by Cevanaugh Hall, you 'II lind SONAL OF YOUR OWN BEFORE??
NEED RIDE! MPLS/ST.PAUL I can leave HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
us serving only the finest food. We won't 
Tuesday. Please call Sara ]283-3541 THIS AD'S FOR YOU HONEY!! ·SAY HI TO THE GREATEST 
LOST/FOUND I 
be surpriSed to see Father 'red or the tot­TO BLACKJACK FOR ME. FRIDAY
FOR SALE: 6 Penn State GA's in a LIDLE SISTER
ball team there before they go on to Chew .~IGHT SHOULD BE A RIOT, I'M SURE
block; Best Otter Call Eric 1528 IN THE WORLD!! 
on the lions at the stadium. See you Sat., 
YOU'LL LOOK ABSOLUTELYLOST: GREEN NOTRE DAME JACKET just look lor the Golden ArCh' ADORABLE. MEET ME AT THE LIGHT. CUTIE.·EARL 
THE WEEK BEFORE OCTOBER NEED 2 Penn State GA's call Martha at lOve. 
BREAK; LAUNDARY TAG SAYS MARC Female Roornate wanted to share NO SMC5120 Tom and Debbie DURETTE; IF FOUND CALL ALl SA 4341 Ave. APTS. starting Jan, call Rose 234­6523 or 283·2589 I Need 3 Penn State Tickets together. GA 
It's just a jump to the left, and then a step to the right. 
or Student. Please call Pattie 284·5087 Peggy (I won't put your last name). this 
NEED RIDE TO AND FROM VANDER­TIRED OF THE NO NIGHT LIFE Six fun­and then a pelvic thrust over to Stepan 
weekend we will have the first exhibit Ofloving girls from PW are looking lor six Center tor 
BILT UNIVERSITY OR NASHVILLE FOR Desperately Needed: 3 or 4 G.A.s tor the photos portraying vacation antics. Be
LOST: ND BRASS KEY RING WiTH ALL wild and crazy guys who can prove that
11/30 WEEKEND CALL MARK AT ANY Penn St. Game, will pay cash tor tickets. there or be blackmailed into another vaca­
MY KEYS. MARY 2890 there is still sOCial life on this campus. Call THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE
TIMEAT1638 Cell Vince 3262 tion with us!! I hear New Zealand is nice in 
2809. 
SHOW March!H

LOST: Black Cross pen in 107 O'Shag Need ride to Pittsburg on Tues .. Nov. 20th NEEDED 4 PENN. ST. TICKETS CALL -omnipresent shutters Please call Diane 5179 DAVEH.1606 Friday and Saturday, Nov. 16and 17
after 11 cOO ctass on Thur 11/8 call2263 or PLAY TRIVIAL PURSUIT!!! TRIVIAL 2245 any time-THANX PURSUIT SPONSORED
MARATHON 9:30 and Midnight BY THE JUNIOR CLASS NOV. 14, $1 Admission
Need ride to Long Island or N.Y.C. leaving Help!!! I need Penn St. tickets! can Mark BUT PEOPLE UKE ME BETTERIll Tuesday 11/20. Will share expenses. Call at3684
LOST:NAVYBLUE PEA COAT AT2T07 MIDNIGHT· NOV. 17. NOON IN THE Sponsored by the SOC11JI Alternative Club PARTY ON IDA RD. ON FRI. NIGHT NEW ORLEANS ROOM AT LA
Rod at 1625. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 
CALL DAVE AT 232·0554 OR DROP AT FORTUNE PROCEEDS HELP THE
............................... Need Penn St. tix, GA's or other. Can Dan Let's do the time warp again. 4 PENN.ST. G.A.S CALL MR.MERTZ
203 ST.ED'S NO??? ASKED!!! SUICIDE PREVENTION CENTER AND
W•ntld: Blochem tutor. Cell284·5488. 287-6262 1959 OR MRS.MERTZ 2672 
HOPE RESCUE MISSION TO PLAY OR Found a CB jacket on 11/10 call3642 SPONSOR, CALL BETH 2798 OR 
Whatever happened to Valerie Harper? KATHY2673 
PLEASE NEED 2-8 PENN ST. TIX CALL 
TOM2111

LOST· 14K GOlD CHAIN BRACELET Fill in the blank: PHO-EME 
IN OR AROUND ENGINEERING BUILD­KICK THE LIONS! ND vs. Penn St. T · 
$$$$Need 2 Penn State G.A.s or Student

ING OR PARKING LOT. IF FOUND shirts available now at North & South
NEED AIDE to lndpls. 11-16 Cindy2933 tix. Please call I 570.$$$$ 
RIDERS NEEDED TO CLEVELAND,
CAU JOAN 287·2831, EXT. 17. Dining Halls. Only $5.00! Get yours I'll go off the board with Famous Last PITTSBURGH, DC AND CHARLOTTES­before they're gone. 
Words, please, Jack. I HOPE WHOEVER STOLE A RED CB 
Going near Wichita,K.C .• or South Ind. tor 
VILLE, VA. LVG. WED. 5 PM. RET. SUN. T -day? Cindy(2933) needs a ride 
CALL JOAN 233·9210 DAYS, 233-2549JACKET SUNDAY IN 1ST f'LOOR Ll· 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,BRARV HAS A VERY GUllTV CON­
NITES. Need Riders to Philly area!Can leave 
Yo, Richard! CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE SCIENCE. IT WAS A 21ST BiRTHDAY 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. PRESENT FOR MY BOYFRIEND. IF 
Wed.at noon.Call Karen 284-5254. 
PENN STATE TIX FOR SALE N-aome tlckata to Penn I NEED A RIDE to St. Louis for Thanksgiv· 
1 G.A. or 1 Student ticket tor sale. CallYOUY KNOW Of ITS WHEREABOUTS. 
Ride needed to Upstate New York torT­Swt•....lour, to blex1ct. I'll wk• 4 atu­ing. Will pay the usual. Call Maureen at THANKS FOR THE COOKIES 
PLEASE TURN INTO LOST AND Sarah at 1333. Will accept best otter. giving break.Oestination-Potsdam or danw, or 2 atudanta 1nd 2 GAa. Th"e 1333.
FOUND IN THE LIBRARY OR CALL 277· vicinity.Sheri 284·4148 guya ere coming from w..t Vir·
4706. NO QUESTIONS WILL BE 
glnla...hlve aymp1thy tor thoae who READY TO MAKE THE MOVE D.C.? A
ASKED. 
TWO HOMESICK LONG ISLANDERS wlk Iunny. Call Zek• et 2045. roommate is wanted to share an apart­JANE BYRNE: I ENJOYED YOUR DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO N.Y. ment in Notre Dame Apts. Rent is SPEECH.! REALLY DID. AND ITS NiCE TO THE PREPS IN 2D: YOU THREE FOUND-GOLD BRACELET IN FAC· 
FOR THANKSGIVING. PLEASE CALL 105/mo. plus utilities. Foran appOintment THAT YOU "ALWAYS ENJOy TALKING ARE THE BESTI...I'LL BE CHEERJNG ULTY PARKING LOT THIS WEEKEND. 
ERIN OR TIM AT 233-6544. to see the apt. call Sheila at 283·3791. WITH THE BELLES OF SAINT MARY'S THE WHOLE WAY· LETS WiN ONECALL277-4706 TO IDENTIFY. 
NEEDED: 2 PENN STATE STUDENT AND THE GENTLEMEN OF NOTRE FOR MAYNARD THIS WEEKEND! RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO NO. TICKETS BARB 4096 DAME." BUT WHAT ABOUT THE REST LOVE, PEGLEG 
At Dillon formal on Friday. a small black 
VA/DC AREA FOR T·G BREAK. 3128. AIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY AREA OR OF THE STUDENTS? 
ITT camera was lost in room 1112 Of the 
NEED 2 Penn State GAs. J.eff 1049 BINGHAMTON. CALL ALLISON AT ATTENTION YORK IRISH FANSt Americana. Reward. Mark at 1728. 
Ride needed to Peoria, IL tor Thanksgiv· 4068. 'SCUZE ME VEGETABLES? DO YOU HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOM, HAPPY AN­ing. Wouldliketoleaveby 1 PMonTues· GIVE IT TO ME BABYI NEED 1-4 STUD WANT TO HAVE VERY LARGE O'S? NIVERSARY MOM AND DAD, HAPPYLOST: One student ID with a picture Of an 
day. Call Col!een at 3465. OR GA TIX. CALL KEITH 1022 HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB YOU KNOW WHAT TO ASK FOR "A TS THANKSGIVING MOM. DAD. AND extremely adorable student on the front. 
FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH OF SFB" MISS ELLIE IS MY IDOL KATIE........ IT WONT BE THE SAME
Whoever took my 10 had better return it 
Need 4 Penn State Tickets. Student or GA 8-11 pm FR·SA Spm-1 am WITHOUT YOU! LOVE, MGM pronto to 306 Howard. This 10 has loads 
RIDE WANTED TO OMAHA. NE. CAN Call1250. PTOOEY SCHIZO, BUT WHAT'S NEW? 
of sentimental value. 
LEAVE 6 PM 11/20 RETURN TO ND IS COLLIE REALLY ALIVE? SHE BET­
0: What do Cerla Haunz and Helen Keller 
11/25 CALL SHEILA 232-6110 AFTER 9 For Sale: 2 Penn G.A.'s 1 Penn Student 2 TER CHECK HER PULSE PRIME CAN­
LOST:WHITE ANGORA HAT BETWEEN have in common? A: The same Turkey
PM WILL SHARE EXPENSES. Hotel Rooms for Fri and Sat-Penn DIDATE FOR MR. PERSONALITY 
Shoot score. 

LIB-FARLEY-STEPAN SENTIMENTAL 
Weekend. Call5055 (SMC) WHAT FUN-LOVING GUYS 
VALUE!! PLEASE CALL 4093. THANX. MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS 
RIDERS NEEDED: Anywhere along 1·90 For sale Friday 3· 7 and 
for thanksgiving break. Leaving Monday. NEED TWO PENN ST TICKETS CALL COMING SOON MR. PERSONALITY
LOST:GREEN ARMY JACKET OFF Saturday 9-12 in Walsh 
Nov. 19 around 4:00 PM. Destination­MARK AT 1638 ANY TIME CALENDAR BUT HOW WILL WE NAR·
CAMPUS. PLEASE CALL 277-3921. and Farley 
Pittsfield, MaSb Call 2275 and ask tor ROWTHELISTTO 12? Paul. NEED 4 Pann St. TIX. GUS x1196.
LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH MIS· SUSAN ODLAND, 
Would you believe • I had a ride to St. 
HERE'S THE PERSONAL YOU'VE AL·
SOUR! ID. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON Check out the new MEN Of' N.D. CALEN­Louis for Thanksgiving Break. but my WAYS WANTED!! 
DARS!!!!!! For sale Friday Nov. 16 from mom needs me to come home a day early 
3-7 and Monday Nov. 19 in Walsh and HELP!! I NEED TWO G.A. TIX FOR THE Farley. 
~-~~~-~-~-~~~-~-~~~~-:~-~~~:.............. I FOR SALE to go turl<ey hunting? If I don't get home by 
GUESS WHO 
Tues. night, my whole family may goPENN STATE GAME. PLEASE CALL. 
hungry. Please give me a ride Tues. JustJULIE at 4354. 
call 283·1933. I promise not to bring my
I WANTED \ sELL ,,.;;;;EoiAriii:v---~--·c;c;M:
MusT 
shotgun in the car. Ask for Joe. 
I NEED 4 STUD. OR GA TIX FOR PENN PLETE COMPUTER SET-UP APPLE lie 

ST., CALL PAT 3055 TWINK. HAPPY BIRTHDAY' CAN'T Ride needed to St. Paui/Mpls. tor (new) Apple lie 64K & monitor; disk drive; Oh, dear lady MEN· ARE THEY LIVE OR ARE THEY WAIT TO CELEBRATE WiTH YOU. Thanksgiving. Willing to leave earty!! Apple Daisywheel letter quality printer. There's so many things thai I've come ro MEMOREX? LOVE YOU VERY DEARLY. HAVE FUN I (Sunday or Monday) Call Mary at 277· Applewriter lie software, Basic manual. 
fear 

TODAY.FAV 2851. and EC·V surge protector (prevents elct. If I don't get a PENN
whole bunch Of Uttle voice says I'm going crazy 
STATE atuclent tlckata soon, tour very See a/1 my world disappear 
damage). Total original purchaae price ri-'wAS.THEN'I'FELT,THE STRANGER NEED 2 RIDES TO AND/OR FROM D.C. 
was $3455-· willing to sell tor $3000 or large thugs will smash my face in. abuse -The Femmes FOR BREAK. LYNN 3726 KICK ME RIGHT BETWEEN THE EYES best offer. AVOID LONG DELAYS IN OR­my lnfonet number with daytime cans to 
DERING ONE OF APPLE'S MOST VER· BangladesH, kill my goldfish and staple 
The Lll• and Tlmea 01 R•chlt Ann
WANTED: Riders to No. VA/DC tor SATILE & POWERFUL COMPUTERS. them to bulletin boards, and torce me at Hf Mllry·Jo Welcome back!! Can I go 
NigroThanksgiving. Call MB at 4172. Contact Dr. Dan Rybicki 256-5275 (leave gunpoint to listen to Kenny Rogers' home in your suitcase? There once a comic named T•nk, Sitting on pillows and tables on the message). Christmas album. If you have any hearl at 
Whose humor was really quite rank. Spanish steps she was accosted by a 
ATTENTION: all, please call GREG at 2532. 
'Til one night at N.D. man in a b1g way. She yelled, "What'ar Can •nyone •na-lhla one qu..tlon Rallglou• Glfta In Swlnld ow.. 
He became an expendee, you doing?" and he asked. "Do you have lor me: WHERE DO SESAME SEEDS Individually handcrafted by The Trap· And this to our Chris we can thank ! change for a drummer?" "No. did you
COME FROM? (8nd don't .-ply Wllh· pistines. For more information, write 
hare's to four more years of fascism• Did anyone ever read It ? Does anyone throw up?!" ·
FOR SALE: 4 PENN STATE GA TiX TO.

!rom th• buna) In •na-lng thla qu... Santa Rita Abbey, Box 97, Sono;ta, 
care? lion you muat not lind the aotutlon In 1 Arizona, 85637. 
GETHER ·ALSO HAVE STUD TIX FOR 

HURRAY Ill RACHEL,bool<, but by .--vtngth••ne-from 
SALE • FRIENDS COULDN'T COME • You grow up, slip a disk and you die. But 
WILL SELL REASONABLE (2n·7570) IRIS, What are you doing this weekend? wait--there is consolation. You can al·
In lndlvldu•l. When you finally m­DENON ORA 300 STEREO RECiEVER. 
IOITIIOnl who knowa lhla •n­33 WATTS/CHANNEL, EXCELLENT 
Give me a call (4069). TIM O'Conner RACE ROCKS ways be on toP' Happy 21st Bella' Love. 
aw.(once 1111111n not by hiving lookld SOUND COMES WITH GUARANTEE. HELP! NEED 3 OR 4 PENN STATE G.A. 
UsIt up) then pi-let m• know. Do thay ASKING $200, CALL MIKE 283-3587 TICKETS AND 5 OR 6 STUDENT TiCK­WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO YOU TO BE com• from bullh• or t..-or ? Thle ETS CALL MARK AT 1688 

SOMEONES SKIRT? DUDE OK-so roly poly fishheads are never seen 
qu•tlon Ia hlldar th•n you think. Commodore MPS 801 dot matrix printer. 
drinking cappuccino in Italian restaurants 
PI-raply by leevlng your nam• 1nd Used 3 months. Reason lor selling-need NEED P.S.U. G.A.'S CALL JIM 277-3616 GO NOTRE DAME NOViCE CREW!! GO with Oriental women. but then, you can number In the c:laallllda. R•member money!! Contact John Long at Moreau SENIOR CLASS PARTYIII NOTRE DAME NOVICE CREW!! GOOD never really really get rid of VD. can you? 
no one Ia to reed th• •n•-· only dll­Seminary-239-7735. $190.00 firm. HELP!If I NEED PENN ST. STUDENT at H.I.'S In NIIH LUCK in Phili. Show the East what we 
cov..-It by word ol mouth. Until you TICKETS!!! CALL 4511 FOR SSSSS THURSDAY. NOV 15, 9PM. ?? never got to show them in Boston; THAT lind out, think of 111 of the people you FOR SALE 77 Plym Fury $600 Call Don 
Drink Specials! Dancing! GOD MADE N.D.1 Go KiCK SOME ASS!! wtll meet In thl1 -rch. 3748 
I NEED PENN ST GAa.272·6306 -The Varsity Women. GIMME A C--A BOUNCY Ct ······"·"·····-·····--............:...;...~ ..: ....... ::..:.w.'.: ~~ "-· '-!: . ............................................................... . ..............._.........~.~-...................... 

The Observer 
Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 11 

. Show ND or SMC student orstaffID and get a 10% discount 
18061 State Road 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 277 ·2870 
t-.3~~~ 
Plant a Smile 
DW 283-4242 
ct:=::H:L.ou_r•_l2:3_0-5:3_0GARDENs 


15'ro Discount ~-not including . 
sale ttems 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

live at the Notre Dame ACC with opening act: 
THE COMA TEENS 
Friday November 1lith 
8:00pm 
Tickets on sale NOW at all ACC Ticket outlets and the SAB Record Store in LaFortune 
Sophomore nose tackle 
Griffin plays active role on defense 
higan State contest. His opportuni­ties for seeing action were greatly increased when the starting nost:" tackle,Jon Autry, incurred a nagging ankle injury which kept him out of the lineup for a major part of the season. 
This injury to Autry enabled Grif­fin to start against Colorado, USC, Penn State, and Air Force. The hard­hitting lineman responded to this opportunity for additional playing time by recording the second­largest total of tackles among first­year defenders behind Mike Kovaleski. 
Highlights of his freshman season include six tackles, including one for lost yardage in his srst start against Colorado. Griffin also had six tackles against Air Force, five In South Carolina, and a key sack of Doug Flutle in last year's Liberty Bowl during Boston College's final drive of the game. 
Coming into the 1984 season, Griffin had a much different outlook on his football career. A year ago he was a freshman and did not know what to expect from the program. However, this year he knew he would be starting because he earned the position during the spring and fall drills. 
"This year, I play a more impor­tant role on the team", says Griffin, "because the defensive line is more active." 
Although much pressure was placed on the line with critical injur­Ies to linebackers Mike Larkin and Tony Furjanlc, the players on the team did more than an adequate job in the absences of the two Irish linebackers. 
"I give a great deal of credit to Mike Kovaleski," says Griffin. "He really picked up the slack." 
This se~on has been a very suc­cessful one for Griffin. Although the Morrissey Hall resident had a minor knee sprain which caused him to miss the Missouri game, he has started and been a contributing fac­tor in each of the other games the Irish have played this season. 
This mainstay on the defensive line has racked up 33 tackles, one of which for lost yardage, while causing two fumbles. 
Even though he has done a great job for the team this year, Griffin does not yet consider himself to be a leader. 
"There is so much talent on this team," says Griffin, "it's very difficult to shine." 
This statement shows the kind of modesty Griffin displays both on and off the field. A fan would have to be asleep or take trips to the refresh­ment stand when Irish opponents have the ball not to notice number 94 on the field. 
The Irish have a ve~y Important game at Notre Dame Stadium this weekend against Penn State. The team has had the opportunity to heal from the previous Injuries, and will be regaining the services of Furjanlc this week after seeing Larkin return to the lineup three games ago. 
"The feeling of the team Is very good about the game," says Griffin. "We are coming off two wins, and we haven't beat Penn State In a couple ofyears, so we'll be ready." 
But, regardless of the outcome, Griffin's contribution to the team will have been an Important factor In the success of the '84 Irish defense. 
Please 
support AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIETY® 
ByJERRY MEUA 
.\ports Writer 
The 1984 season for the Notre Dame football team has been some­what of a disappointment. Many sports publications had the Irish ranked as one of the top teams in the country, with a chance at the na­tional championship. However, these preseason expectations have not been reached. The Irish cur­rently find themselves with only five victories in nine contests, and have two very difficult games remaining. 
The coaching staJf has received a 
great deal of criticism for Notre 
Dame's mediocrity: Maybe the 
coaches deserve some of the blame, 
but much of the team's lack of suc­
cess has been due to the many Injur­
Ies suffered throughout the season 
to starting players and reserves in 
key positions. 

This has been the case especially in some key positions on defense. The Irish have had many Injuries to their linebacking corps in particular. This situation has put more pressure on the defensive line and the sec­ondary to cover up for the mistakes that might be made by the reserve linebackers. Mike Griffin has been one member of the defensive line who has overcome the many prob­lems that have confronted this year's team to perform quite well In his weekly assignments. 
Griffin, a 6-4 254-pound sopho­

more, has done a great job for the 
Irish at the nose tackle position for 
the last two years. 
Like all other Notre Dame ath­letes, this powerful lineman had a rather impressive high school career. He earned three letters as an offensive and defensive tackle at Benedictine High School in Cleveland, Oh. His outstanding per­formances on the field, including 130 tackles as a junior, earned him all-northeat Ohio, all-independent, and all-state selection both his junior and senior seasons. 
Griffin was also named-one of the top 100 incoming freshmen for '83 by theFootball News and a member of the Adida!'Scbolasttc Coach prep All-America team. 
In evaluating these accomplish­ments and honors, it is obvious that Griffin was very highly recruited. 
-..1 chose Notre Dame for its academics," says Griffin. "There is more to my life than just football, be­cause someday my career will be over." 
The Cleveland native has been pleased with his decision to attend Notre Dame, but he admits, "It has been tougher than I had expected, both on the field and off, but I feel it's for the best." 
In 1983, Griffin began his career by making his presence known on the defensive line almost immedi­ately. He earned a monogram by playing In every game but the Mic-
Trivial Pursuit Marathon 
Nov. 14, 12midnight ·Nov. 17, 12noon LaFortune, New Orleans Room All proceeds go to 
The Suicide Prevention Center and. Hope Rescue Mission 
For more info call Beth 2798 

··gQowen~ {;on oQQ oeeo~io~~ 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354 
.............................................................................................. 
•. 

The Class of 1985 Presents Its Annual BLOCK PARTY!! 
Friday, November 16 
3:30pm -6:30pm 
ACC (Enter Gate 3) 
-~~· 
r:5_ 
Come and enjoy food and music with administration, faculty, students, and members ofthe 
. Northeast Neighborhood! 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIII 

...
-------------------------------------------------~------~ -----­
Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 12 


Get two free Cokes® with 
Two Free 
any pizza. One coupon per pizza. 
Cokes® 
YOU CAN'T 
and no /eg111mate speed readmg course can prom1se that you'll finish novels faster than aspeeding bullet' But you~ 1ncrease your readmg speed up to five times without sacnhcmg comprehension 
Our Breakthrough Rapid Reading pro­gram can help you read textbooks. ma11 10urnals. novels-anythmg faster & more eff1c1ently If that sounds good to you. call us 
IC~-H 
lj~DOCATIONA~
£ 
CENTER 

TEST PRE~TlON SPECIAliSTS SINCE 1938 
SPIED IIEitDIIII 
SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(2~~! ~!~~~!35 

INDIAN... POLIS AND BlOOMINGTON Jn New 'lblit Slate Stanley H Kaplan Educabonal Cenler Ltd 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame crew team wm be collecting 
money and pledge sheets from the ergothon today from 8 p.m. to 9 
p.m. in LaFortune. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Clubwm be meeting 
today in the LaFortune Little Theatre at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
The Dolphin Club will be meeting today at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre to recruit timers for Notre Dame swim · meets. For more information, call Paul at 283-1535 or Blaise at 283­1075. · Ibe Observer 
Let US do your shipping: 
U.P.S. EMERY PARCEL POST 
SHIPPING ETC. 
University Center, Grape Rd. Adjacent to Macri's Dell 
Please 

l 
support the 
AMERICAN 
WCANCER 
'SOCIETY® 

IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIfiiiiHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIJJII 
Open to All THE BOBS 
from San Francisco 
Dec 1, Saturday 
at... 

~)[~~ §ill~ 
..........................;....................................................................J 
The ND/SMC Ski Club will be meeting today at 6 
p.m. in the LaFortune Little lbeatre. Anyone interested in the trip should attend. For more information, call Julie at 283-4354. -The Observer 
Sign-ups for the SMC Turkey Trot will be 
accepted until tomorrow at 5 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. The three-mile cross-country race will be held Monday, Nov. 19, and is open to all Saint Mary's students, faculty and fritnds. A $1 advance registration fee is required to cover the cost of awards. For more information, call the Saint Mary's Athletic Department at 284-5548.­
The Observer 
Basketball and hockey officials are needed 
for the interhall season. Anyone interested should apply at the NVA office. -Ibe Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -The Observer 
In the NBA)ast night the Atlantic Division-leading Boston Celtics defeated the New York Knicks, 115-99, while the Phoenix Suns maintained their Pacific Division lead by beating New Jersey, 98-86. In other games, Washington downed San Antonio, 125-106, Indiana defeated Houston, 125-117, and Detroit edged Philadelphia, 137-133, in overtime. ·AP 
In the NHL last night the Norris Division-leading Chicago Black Hawks downed the New York Rangers, 6-4. Else­where around the league, Buffalo defeated Boston, 4-2, Los Angeles skated by Toronto, 4-3, Quebec beat St. Louis, 6-4, and Pittsburgh edged Winnepeg, 4-3 in overtime. AP 
The Obser:ver. 
Interested in laying out a newspaper? 
Introductory Meeting Today, 7:00 3rd floor LaFortune 
*****************
•il  MJAMI JEWBRY  •il  
~  1906Miami3.  ~  
~  TOPPRICE  ~  
:  RINGS*DIAMONDS  ~  
il  GOLD*SILVER  il  
it.~  WATCHES Buy ­Sell ­Exchange  il -­~  
il  OPENMONDAY-SATURDAY9·6  il  
~  289-6440  ~  

***************** 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes LeHers Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 

NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available ... Winter semester...convenient ... spacious ... Laundry facilities ...plentiful parking ... superior maintenence ... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: 
(219) 234-6647 
The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 13 


The Observer Thursday, November 15, 1984 -page 14 
day. That was unfortunate, because ulate all the players and coaches for both teams had been looking for· a successful and competitive season.
Stanford 
ward to their chance to play in the Special praises should go to Sorin stadium. coach Mike Conlin for taking a team
continuedfrom page 16 
Second, there was controversy from the small-dorm division all the game will win," says Sorin coach over who had to change jerseys way to the finals. Stanford's Chris 
Don't forget!
Mike Conlin. "Neither of us seem to since both of last year's challengers, Soha also deserves cheers for 
have much confidence in the pass· Stanford and eventual champ Dillon, inggame." wore red jerseys. That problem was 
Much pressure will be placed on avoided when Stanford charged the defenses to shut out the op· onto the field after warm-ups in new, ponent, as both have done four all-white jerseys specially bought for times this year. the championship game. 
"I think it will come down to a This year, the weather report does field goal," says Stanford lineba('ker not forecast rain and Sorin's and Pete Sawin with a grin. The grin Stanford's jersey present enough ofa reflects the confidence that Stanford contrast to avoid confusion so the has in field goal kicker Dan only thing on the minds of the O'Donnell, who won a game earlier players should be their goal of win· this year in the last seconds. ning the championship. All are en· 
Hopefully, the finals will not meet couraged to come and see two the same difficulties as last year. quality teams faceoff in what should First, the game had to be switched be an old-fashioned, hard-hitting from the stadium to Cartier Field be­football battle. cause the stadium field was torn up Heading into the final game of the from the varsity game the previous interhall season, it is time to congrat· 
Associated Press of 13 from the floor and 12 of 13 
from the free throw line. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. · All· The Yugoslavians who are on a American guard Steve Alford scored five-game tour of the United States, a game-high 32 points as Indiana evened their record at 1-1. They defeated the Yugoslavian Nationals were led in scoring by Sonan 96·81 in an exhibition basketball Radovich, 6·3 guard, with 16 points, game before 12,372 fans la.>t night. and 6-10 Ivo Tetovic added 10. 
Indiana, on top 44-39 at halftime, The Yugoslavian Nationals cut the outscored the Yugoslavians 16-6 in 16-point deficit to nine, 63-54, with the first 5:22 of the second half, in· 10:29 remaining. But four straight eluding the first eight points to open points by the Hoosiers pushed the up a 61-45 lead with 14:38 remain· lead back to 13, and Indiana coasted ing. the rest of the way as all I 5 players 
Alford, who hit all five ofhis shots on the Hoosier roster saw action. in the first half. finished the night 10 

Student Activities Board 
RECORD STORE 
In LaFortune 
Stop byand check it out!I 
i CHRISTMAS SPECIAL I ifNOTRE DAME AVE. APARTMENTS l 
i ONE AND ONE ONLY! 2 bedroom ! i furnished apartment available with a i : FREE months rent for December! YES! : : It will be a Merry Christmas! :
•

• : For more information call and save : 
: (219) 234-6647 : 

EASY RIDER 
TO AID FROM CHICAGO'S O'IWlE EVERY 2 HOUBS EVIllY DAY 
United Limo
~IIWI
,.__ 
lltfli, 
'0844 McK•nley Hwv o,ml• ~..' 1"IUIIIIIHII 674-6993 '· I ~ ..~ IIIIIIIIIIWIII 
I'' 1111''! !
255.. 3068 II' !~· '.'•'II'" HHllltl 
or c~ll your Travel Agenl ,j 1111 IWIIIIIUIIII'111111 f)ii'IIIUII!IIIIIr.l
... ~ 
hHIIIWllllll II 
guiding his team to the champion­ship game for the second year in a row. 
Two dorms, Morrissey and Zahm, experienced a change offortune this year. Last year, Morrissey posted a 0· 3·2 record, but this year, under the leadership of Dan and Steve Elder, Morrissey won the Parseghian divi· sion with a 5·1 record. Zahm coach John Looney expressed confidence from the very beginning of the season, and it obviously rubbed off on his team as they had a 3·1 regular season slate, good enough for runner-up in the Leahy division and its first playoff berth in recent memory. 
Men's basketball vs. Zadar Club Tonight ?p.m. 
Football vs. Penn State Saturday 12:20p.m. 



ass 

$ 99 
JACK DANIELS 
750 ML 

CASE OF 24 CANS 
J99 

PAUL MASSON BRANDY 
750 ML
1099 

, AMARETTO CARLO.ROSSI
• D~Jl,O!SO 
4 liTER 
't·~! 

BAILEY'S IRISH BURATI CREAM LIQUEUR ASTI SPUMANTE 
750 ML 750 ML
499 
TABOR HILL TABLE WINE 
750 ML 


TANQUERAY GIN
BUDWEISER HAMM'S 1.75 L 
3'2'99 e 27'9'9 
6502 GRAPE RD.  200 N. MAIN  254 DIXIEWAY NORTH  1910 LINCOLNWAY EAST  1621 SO. BEND AVE.  
MISHAWAKA  ELKHART  ROSfUND  SO. BEND  SO. BEND  
277·1176  295·6310  212·2522  233-8430  233-4603  

$6'' Bud light $3299 
112 bbl 
LiHie Kings $3499 Busch $3299 
1f2 bbl 

']I['4(Jt~C3L~---------------------------------------Th--u_r_s_d_a_y_,N b_e_r_l_S_,_1_9_8_4 ..5
ov_e_m P_a_g_e_1 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Wt /J6T7fl? HUm, 511?. He CAN IAIAJT. 
Y/35, 51!<. LATE liE M4Y~ CF ffY(T-I PAY Hltrl 
lA5TNIGHT. A 
AU·PRIJKE15ALJ!£APY 6NOIJ6H.HAS 
CIGA~TTE: 
Ht:flt TO 5HIE'.M Y(}(J 71/t INAIJ6IJRA · 
BOAT ORIJPPElJ IN' 7!(}15PfAI<I3R. 
HIM OFF AT 510MBJ'fU? 
...., THE MARINA. I 
~ I 
I 
Tank McNamara 
Berke Breathed 
'/
MILO.. f'UAS€ .. HE'S &OIN6 11(f«Ji.J6H A CONL/CIITEP ~RIOP Of 5tl.f·PISCOVORY... I 71/llik A Llffi~ UNP6R­
5fi!NPIN615 IN (}({{l(;R. 
~J/'-( 

eVER 5/NC& W£3 
R!JOI,1[3[l T()(jf3JHER. KINO OFA IN CO/JH£, /3088'(5 CARJfJEJtAN ALJ(JA~ HATElJ8£/NG 771£ cam:R OfllTTENT/0}/. 
\ 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

Gary Larson 
The Far Side 

"Well, heaven knows what II is or where II came !rom-just get rid oil!. But save that cheese first." 
Campus 
•12 
· 4 p.m. -MBA Mini Forum, 2nd Floor, LaFortune, Sponson:d by Career & Placement Services. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "On Linearization of Cy Action on Three Dimension Affine Space," Prof. Mariusz Koras, McGill Univer­sity, Room 201 CCMB. 

•4:4S 
· 6:4S p.m.-WomenofND Calendar Sale, North & South Dining Halls, Sponsored by Holy Cross Hall, 57. 

•6 
· 8 p.m. -Mandatory Sign-ups, For Shdter for the Homeless Volunteers, OBUD Desk, LaFortune. 

•7, 
9: IS & II :30 p.m.-Film, "The Graduate," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi· ties Board. 

•7 
p.m.-Thursday Night Film Series, "Best Years of Our Lives," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7 
p.m. -Basketball, ND vs. Yugoslavia, ACC. 

•7 
·8:30p.m.-Slide Sbow,Semester Abroad Pro­gram, Dr. Cyrus Pullapilly, Little Theatre,. LaFortune, Applications Available. 

•7 
· 9 p.m. -Presentation-Reception, Harris Corp., For AJI BMD Students in EE, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. e7: 15 p.m. -Meeting, Fashion Show Committee, BCAC Meeting Room, LaFortune, All Are Welcome. 

•7:30p.m.-Black
Studies Film, "Sugar Cane AI· len," Ubrary Auditorium, Free. 

•7:30p.m.-Lecture-Discussion, 
"New Direction in the College of Arts & Letters," Dean Michael Loux, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Arts & Letters Student Advisory Council. 

•7:30 
p.m.-General Meeting, Fellowship ofChris· tian Athletes, Center for Social Concerns, All Are Welcome. 

•8 
p.m.-Choral Concert, SMC Choir & Guest Art­ist Cheryl Briggs, Little Theatre, Sponsored by SMC Dept. of Music. 

•8 
p.m. -ND-SMC Dance Theatre, Student Dance Conert, Regina Hall Dance Studio (SMC), Open to the Public, S l. 

•8 
· Io p.m. -Presentation-Reception, Lord & Taylor, For All BBA and Arts & Letters Stmknts, University Club, Sponsored by Career & Place­ment Services, Free. 

•8 
p.m.-Film, "How Much Is Enough?" Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free. 

•8:30 
p.m. -Steve Landesberg, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by SMC Student Activities Board and !USB, $S, S4 for Students. 

•8:30 
· I 0 p.m. -Presentation-Reception, E. F. Hutton, For All Senior A&L and BBA Students, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 

•9 
p.m.-Senior Party, H.I.'s Old Town, Niles, Mic­higan. 


The Daily Crossword 
1 

TV Tonight 
ACROSS 43 Pried 4 Hill 1 Sldedloh 44 Wind dweller 6 "Mary-direction 5 Certain 
7:00p.m. 16 M0 A0S0 H 
lillie..." 45 Cries ol lootbell 
22 Dukes of Hazzard
10 Foko dlocovery team 14 Cootie 46 Carpi 6 Relentless 
7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 
15 Mllno 47 Homlet person 
8:00p.m. 16 Bill Cosby Show 
16 Flrot·clau etol. 7 Touched t7 Head· 49 Actor Grey down 
22 Magnum, PI awelling 50 Window· 8 Rather 
28 U.S. Olympic Medalists Professional 
19 Turner shop oiTV 
Boxing Debut
20 Spinner 9 Cal and 21 Tronoported 52 Jokootor goat 
34 34 From 
22 King ollho 53 Weot ol 10 Vendor's 
8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 
lalrlea lllmo concern 24 Extremist 56 Scoria 11 Laryngeal 
9:00p.m. 16 Cheers 
25 lntoroect 57 Halt problem 
22 Simon & Simon 
26 Secure 60 At all 12-Domini 29 Bikini 61 Cleveland's 
34 Mystery 
13 Cruel 
9:30p.m. 16 Night Court
porto lake 
Wednesday's Solution 
30 Soundaol 62 Blrdlllaol 16 Deoervo 
I O:OOp.m. 16 Hill Street Blues
hesltotlon a region 23 Certain 31 What jew, 50 Tooted 63 Existed baseball elers do 51 Talk wildly 
22 Knots Landing
33 Plocelor team
64 Moral 32 Plants a 52 Genesis 
28 20/20
McEnroe 24 Scarlett's
lapses garden name 34 Ellrontery 65 Ohloclly home 
34 Masterpiece Theatre 35 Society 'Is Unrellned 34 Utter 53 Neighbor 
destruction ol N. Oak. 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16
pogo word DOWN 26 Pinnacles 39 Seethe 54 Others: Lat. 
22 .22 Eyewitness News
36 Painting 1 Prepare 27 Travel 42 Cheddar 
37 Concealed llourlor agent's 55 Lohengrin's
and brle 
28 Newswatch 28 
36 Portly plus baking concerns 46 Promise bride 40 s..blrd 2 Guthrie 28-anew 58 Belore dent 
34 Movie· lbe Jungle Rook
48 Knowing41 "-.1 3 " ...belore leal 49 Fonda and or angle saw,... .. you-" 29 Edges Austen 59 Three: it. 

FRIDAY &SATURDAY
TONIGHT 
THE 
The Rocky Horror 
Picture Show 
GRADUATE 
9:00 and 12 midnight 
7:00,9:15,11:30 
~naineering Aud. $1.00 
Stepan Center $1.00 


-~--~--------------­

Thursday, November 1 5, 1984 -page 16
SRorts 
lnterhall football final games slated for Sunday 
Stanford, Sarin square-offin battle of undefeated division champions 
By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The Stanford Studs vs. The Sorin Mean Ma­chine. Although it sounds like a battle be­tween two chain gangs, it is actually the match-up for the men's interhall football championship to be played this Sunday at 2 
p.m. Notre Dame Stadium. 
Sorin, the top-seeded team in the playoffs, downed Howard 11-3 last Sunday to up its overall record to 5-0. Stanford, whose record now stands at 4-0-1, topped Morrissey, 6-0. 
Both teams are remarkably similar, relying on strong running games and tough defenses to propel them into the finals. In fact, Sorin outscored its five opponents by a combined score of 55-3 while Stanford overwhelmed the competition by a 45-3 margin. 
Stanford's leading rusher throughout the regular season was Tony Dawson, but he missed the Morrissey game with a twisted knee and is questionable for this week. Never­theless, Stanford's running game did not suffer as jack Gleeson more than took up the slack by rushing for 110 yards on Sunday. 
Gleeson will get help from fullback Jim Clevenger and quarterback Brent Basham, who has proven to be a capable passer when Stanford has been forced to go to the air. 
Sorin's offense counters with hard-nosed tailback Sean Garrett running behind a big, tough offensive line. Quarterback Tim Laboe had a solid game against Morrissey, picking up some important first downs via the pass. 
However, don't expect a high scoring pass­ing war but rather a low-scoring defensive struggle and a display of ball-control of­fensives. 
"The team that establishes the running 
see STANFORD page 14 
Top-seeded, defending champ P .E. getting ready for battle with Farley 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
The stage is set. Farley and Pasquerilla East will meet head to head in the championship game of the women's interhall flag football league Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium to decide who will be the champion. 
The action is set to begin 1 p.m. this Sunday. 
Farley is coming off a tough win over Breen­Phillips and will be looking to take the crown away from the defending champs. Farley's hopes rest heavily on the shoulders of Mary Lou Almeida. Almedia is probably the best quarterback in the league and is the center of Farley's offense. 
Almeida is a double threat-she has the abil­
ity to pass pass or run with equal effectiveness. 
Farley is mosty successful when Almeida con­
nects with receiver Kara England and pitches the ball on the option to running back Joyce Metti. 
Pasquerella East's attack is a little more balanced. P.E. has several talented running backs who will be the focus of its offense. Quarterback jenny Yuhl usually gives the ball to speedsters Kathy Nelson and Elise Armstrong. 
Both teams have solid defenses with many strong players. But it will be interesting to see if either team is capable of stopping the ex­tremely potent offenses of the opponent. 
The players figure to be a little nervous at the start, which allows the strong possibility of a big play early. A quick score could alter the style of the game significantly. 
"Farley girls just want to have fun," says Far­ley head coach john Janicki. But P.E. will be out to prevent that fun and to avenge its loss to Farley each ofthe last two years in the champi­onship game. 

Pasquerilla East 

NDStadium 
Pasquerilla East 
Lewis 
Women's championship Sunday 1 p.m. 
?
• 

Farley 
Farley 
Breen-Phillips 
AssistantSports Edttor 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will suit up in its regular home uniforms tonight to take on outside competition for the first time this season. The Irish, who played an in­trasquad scrimmage last Sunday, will take on the Zadar Club from Yugos­lavia in an exhibition game at 7 p.m. in theACC. 
The teams will be playing accor­ding to regular NCAA rules. Last year, when the Irish played the Yugoslavian National Team, interna­tional rules were used because it was an Olympic year, and the coaches wanted their players to get experience playing with the rules. 
The game will be the fifth for Zadar on a nine-game American tour that was organized through the ef­forts of the Notre Dame basketball coaches. The Yugoslavian club's tour includes upcoming games against Northwestern, DePaul, Loyola and Wisconsin. 
Zadar has established a I-2 record on the tour with losses to Dayton and Illinois-Chicago Circle and a vic­tory over Butler, where the club escaped with a 76-73 win. Last night, the team played at St. Joseph's. 
The Zadar roster includes 1 0 players who comprise one of the best club teams-in Yugoslavia, accor­ding to Notre Dame assistant coach Jim Baron. The Zadar players range in height from 6-2 to 6-I 0 and in age from 19 to 26. 
lavians to have a good-shooting, passing ball club that will play team ball. Zadar is an offensive-minded team that likes to play a slow, calcu­lated offense, but the players also will shoot when the easy opportu­nity presents itself, Baron said. 
Tonight's game will be the fourth matchup between Notre Dame and the Yugoslovian club. In May, 1983, the Irish toured in Yugoslavia and came away with a 2-1 edge over Zadar and the championship in the Zadar Cup tournament. All three of those games were closely contested, with the Irish winning, 84-82 and 94-92, and Zadar taking one game, 95-92. 
Three key players from that Zadar squad will be with the club at the ACC tonight. Guard Peter Popovic, who averages over 20 points per game for the club, had an average of 
13.3 ppg. against the Irish last year with a high game of23 points. Guard Ante Matulovic scored 32 points in one of those games and averaged 
23.0 in the three contests. Forward Veljko Petranovic averaged 17.0 and had a high game of 22 points. 
Irish head coach Digger Phelps said he expects the squad Zadar brings to the ACC tonight to be com­petitive opposition for his team. 
"They have two good guards," he points out. "Popovic is a very good player, and their front line is very strong." 
The· Irish also will have good guards and a strong front line on the Rivers will start in the backcourt, while Tim Kempton, Ken Barlow and jim Dolan will be the big men. 
Rivers will be the one to watch tonight and all season, since he is the play-maker on this young Irish squad. The 6-0 freshman guard will be counted on this year to create op­portunities for his teammates with his quickness and accurate passing skills. He also is expected to add some scoring of his own. In the team's intrasquad game last Sunday, Rivers accounted for 25 ofthe White team's 102 points. 
Hicks also was impressive Sunday, as he led all scorers with 27 points for the White squad. The 6-3 sopho­more averaged 4.8 points per game last season, but Phelps said he ex­pects Hicks to improve that figure this year, particularly since the Irish will be playing more of a run-and­gun sort ofoffense this season. 
Dolan, Kempton and Barlow should provide solid play under­neath the basket. The three junior tri-captains will be playing together as a unit for the second consecutive year. The line will benefit from an average height of6-9 and combined averages of26.6 pointspergame and 
19.2 rebounds· per game. In addi­tion, the Irish front line presents a formidable defense for opponents. 
One thing which still remains to be seen is how well the bigger, slower players will be able to keep up with the faster transition game that Rivers and Hicks will be playing. 
The ObsC'rvC'r/P.aul Kramtr 
Freshman pointguard David Rivers, who scored 25 points in the Blue-Gold Game on Sunday, will lead his team against the Zadar Club ofYugoslavia tonight at 7p.m. in theACC. Phil Wolfpreviews the game. 
Phelps said he thinks that the big "We're just going to play," he saio. men will be able to keep pace with "We're ready to play. I'm anxious to the quick guards. get it going." 
"We'll just let them go," he said. For the thousands of Irish basket­"We'll let them get up court any way ball fans who anxiously are awaitin they can." the start of the new season, tonight' 
Phelps is noticeably excited about exhibition will be a welcome the new season. chance to see the team perform. 





