Mardi Gras -page 2 

Vol. XVIII No. 100 the independent ~tutknt new~paper ~en ing notrt dame and ~aint nLtr) ·~ Tuesday, March 6, 1984 


Ruehlmann ticket victorious; runoffs decide four elections 
By THERESA GUARINO had the highest voter turnout, with Cahill. "The response during-. it Copy Editor 76.6 percent. seemed to be positive." "We're thankful for all the peo­
Yesterday's class elections ple that voted," said Martello. "We In off-campus commiSSIOner resulted in three runoffs, with only got off the bat sooner than others elections, Doug Honeywell will the class of 1986 producing a with our organization, and I think face Jim Hagen in tomorrow's decisive winner. that helped us a lot." runoff. Hagan earned 24.6 percent 
The "Mob" ticket pulled in a of the vote to finish in second place close first-place finish, earning a Domagalski said he believes it behind Honeywell's 30.1 percent. spot in tomorrow's runoff election was their innovative ideas, ex­"I think I addressed some of the against the Dean Christy ticket, in perience, and strong service plat­important issues," said Hagan. "I senior class elections. form that aided their victory. "We plan on doing a lot of campaigning 
were very appreciative of the over­today." 
Twenty-six percent of the vote whelming support we received," he went to the "Mob" and 24.4 percent said. "We've really taken the per­Ombudsman Director Andy to Christy, in an election where sonal approach during this, and I Tucker was not surprised at the 
62.8 percent of next year's seniors think it worked." number of runoffs. "Whenever voted. there are more than three tickets, 
Leader of the "Mob" John Fifty-seven percent of the class we always expect a runoff," he Decker, said he believes it was their of '86 turned out to vote, electing said. "little bit of originality that did Rick Ruehlmann, Beth McCahill, Tucker was also not impressed it.... We are serious candidates. A DAn McMahon, and John Spatz, with voter turnout. "Turnout was lot of people still think we are jok­as their officers. The Ruehlmann abyssmal depending on class," he ing, but we really want to do the ticket won with 52.9 percent of the said. "However sophomores job." vote. always vote in large numbers 
"We put a lot of time and dedica­because they usually have the most Decker's opponent, Ward Fit­tion into the campaign," said Me-tickets running." 
zgerald, vice president on the Dean Christy ticket, was "very pleased with the results. We won because of our hard work and dedication," he claimed. "Our newness on the cam­paign trail set us apart." 
The class of 1987 had nine tickets 

The Observer/Paul Ctfarelli 
running, more than any other class. Therese Kincaid (left) and Michelle Takazawa place their votes for Opposing each other in that runoff class officers in the lobby ofPasquerilla East yesterday. The two are the Domagalski ticket, which juniors will have the opportunity to vote again in tomorrow's earned 39.1 percent of the vote, and nmoffelections. Story at right. the Martello ticket, earning 12.4 
percent. Next year's sophomores 

Lebanon cancels U.S.-sponsoredIsraeli troop withdrawal pact 
Associated Press In response, Syria was expected Lt:banese factions along the line to guarantee its Druse and Moslem between Christian east and Moslem 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -President militia allies in Lebanon will sup­west Beirut killed two and wounded Amin Gemayel's government scrap­port a cease-fire while Lebanese 11. ped Lebanon's troop withdrawal reconciliation talks resume in Army Col. Don McClary, a U.S. pact with Israel yesterday as part of Switzerland. military spokesman, said the a deal with Syria designed to end Marine colonel, whose name was 
the Lebanese civil war. Israel condemned the move as a withheld, was in stable condition. Gemayel held an emergency ses­capitulation to Syrian "dictates." A The local radio said a gunman fired 
sion of his Council of Ministers to spokesman for President Reagan a pistol three times at his arm and announce abrogation of the U.S.­expressed "regret." chest near the U.S. Embassy, which mediated pact signed May 17. Israeli jets bombed suspected is being guarded by Marines. 
"The council has decided to guerrilla bases at Aley near Beirut cancel this... accord, consider it before and during the Cabinet ses­A communique by the French null and void and alter everything sion. In Beirut, rocket fire killed a command said the French soldier that may have resulted from it," French soldier and a gunman died from a rocket wound at the ine said a statement from the council, wounded a U.S. Marine colonel. between Moslem and Christian sec­Lebanon's Cabinet. Police said fighting among tors. 
SMC team takes second in business games 
By ED KONRADY because theories have no value until hours to develop a presentation on Copy Editor you use them." the value of their company. "It was a very good experience," Participants were selected by the Six Saint Mary's students took said Bradley, a finance and interna­faculty, said Susan Vance, a faculty 
second place in their division in the tional business major. "We learned advisor for the contest. The choice 1984 Intercollegiate Business a lot by doing it on a continuous was based on technical knowledge, speaking ability, and writing skills. 
Games and Conference which con­basis." cluded Saturday at Emory Univer­The games are divided into two "We did pretty well," said sity in Atlanta. parts. Saint Mary's received a com­Bradley. "We did all the work on 
Sandy Bradley, Celeste Curry, puter simulation of a manufactur­our own. Professor (Frank) Eileen O'Hagen, Lorraine Sheehan, ing industry in January. The six Yeandell (the other faculty advisor) Cindy Bauer and Ann Huber team members made ten sets of came to Atlanta with us, but finished second in their industry -decisions that were fed into a com­couldn't help. The only thing he did 
coffee-to Wake Forest University. puter, simulating two and a half was drive." The games, now in their 19th
The overall winner was West' years of company operations. 

Georgia College. In Atlanta, students saw results year, featured teams from 24 "It was very competitive," said of their decisions in balance sheets undergraduate institutions in the and income statements. United States, Canada, and
O'Hagen, a marketing major. "We The second phase of the contest Western Europe. This is the second 
gained a lot of experience and knowledge applying theories we began last weekend. After receiving time Saint Mary's has been invited learned in class, which wa~ good, its results, Saint Mary's had three to attend. 
Election Tally 
Class of 1985 percent 0-C Commissioner percent 
John Carnesale 12.8 Michael Colgan 9.1 Dean Christy 24.4 Jim Hagan 24.6 John Decker 26.0 Doug Honeywell 30.1 Connie O'Brien 15.4 John Maley 16.3 Michael Schmutz 21.5 Ben Suplick 19.9 
Mock Convention Poll 
Class of 1986 Virginia Blissert 36.6 Ruebin Askew 10.4 Greg Herman 10.5 Alan Cranston 1.7 Richard Ruehlmann 52.9 John Glenn 15.2 Gary Hart 41.5 Ernest Hollings 2.0
Class of 1987 
Jesse Jackson 9.8 
James Domagalski 39.1 
George McGovern 3.2 
Michael Elliot 2.4 
Waiter Mondale 16.2 
Bryan Fenton 9.0 Jeff Martello 12.4 
A runoff election will be held Patrick McCauley 11.6 tomorrow for those races in which Michael McNamee 3.6 no ticket received a major~ty of the 
Thomas Powers 9.5 
vote. The top two tickets w111 vie 1n the runoff. The Mock
Michael Rensch 1.4 
Convention vote is a straw poll and
Joseph Zahn 11 '1 
has no bearing on the convention. 


Senate proposal would increase activities fee 
By MIKE MILLEN the fee, and let the next senate VewsStaff decide." 
The issue will not be discussed 

A plan to increase student ac­further until the halls themselves tivities fees by one-third was in­look into it, said Callaghan, ad­troduced at last night's Student ding, "he (Broussard) has done Senate meeting. The resolution, research, but it hasn't gotten the which would add $10 to the current support it needs." He said the pro­$30 fee, was initiated by posal will be debated sometime in Sophomore Class President Lee the near future, but there is "no Broussard. need to get it passed next week." 
Broussard plans to send 70 per­Also at last night's meeting, the ~.:ent of the increase directly to senate approved Kevin McGovern's dorms, with the remainder going to appointment as student union the portion of the Student Ac­board manager after a brief discus­tivities Programming Board budget sion. aimed at providing social activities. The senate's committee on He justifies the proposal by noting teacher evaluations reported it there is a "need for an increase in hopes to distribute forms to social activities" and "new funding students three weeks before finals. commitments would be necessary Students will return the evaluations to increase the level of social ac­in much the same way as absentee tivities on campus." ballots. 
Student Body President Brian A proposal to install lights on Ivy Callaghan disagrees. He notes Road was also discussed. This was "non-alcoholic events are not said to be a long term project, anywhere near as expensive" as however, as construction coordina­those which do involve alcohol. tion problems dictate action be "I'm not in favor of it; let's debate taken no earlier than next year. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, March 6, 1984-page 2 
., 





In Brie£ · 
Two speakers have been addedto this year's Mock Convention, scheduled for April 4-7. Sponsors of the quadrennial event say they are renewing efforts to bring one or more of the Democratic candidates for the presidential nomination to the convention floor. Former U.S. Representative Ron Mottle, of Ohio, a Notre Dame alumnus, will address delegates and guests on April 4, and Representative Corine "Lindy" Boggs of Loui­siana's second district will speak at the April 5 session. She has been mentioned as a possible vice-presidential candidate at the na­tional convention. Others to speak at the Stepan Center event are Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president; Rep. Romano Mazzoli of Kentucky, and Democratic National Chairman Charles Manatt, both Notre Dame parents. -The Observer 
An improved job market awaits 1984 graduates, according to two major placement studies. The Michigan State University Recruiting Trends Survey says hiring quotas are up 5 percent, while Northwestern University's report is even more op­timistic, predicting a 20 percent jump in jobs, with 30 percent more 
for masters' graduates. "The recession has bottomed out," says MSU's Jack Shingleton. "But this is a very gradual increase." That may be true in some areas, but Stanford University reports its · campus recruiting is "booming," with almost twice as many winter quarter job interviews scheduled this year over last year. -The Observer 
Curt Milhaupt, a senior majoring in Government and International Studies at Notre Dame, has been selected as reci­pient of the Japanese Government (Mombusho) Scholarship for 1984. Ellen Ryan, a Saint Mary's senior, has been selected as an alternate recipient. Thirty-five students of Japanese took the three hour language examination last October. The two students were among seven who qualified from this region and whose names were sent to Tokyo. The scholarship entitles the recipient to study as a research student at a Japanese university designated by the Japanese Ministry of Education. The student receives free transportation to and from Japan, and a monthly allowance fo about $730 and tuition. Milhaupt is the sixth student from the University of Notre Dame to receive this award. Last year's reci­pient, Fredrick Dickinson, also a government major, is attending Kyoto University. -The Observer 
Indiana Governor Bob Orr yesterday unveiled plans for a state-wide comprehensive public information program with the theme, "Sobering Advice Can Save a Life." The cam­paign, designed by the Governor's Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving, is being funded by a $1.2 million federal grant awarded to Indiana from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administra­tion. The funds will be used to Slli'POr! public information and education programs as well as law enforcement and rehabilitative efforts, all aimed at reducing drunk driving. "In the effort to reduce alcohol-related fatalities in Indiana, we are initiating a positive, up-beat program that encourages individual responsibili­ty in solving this problem," said Stephen Goldsmith, chairman of the task force. -The Observer 
Of Interest -­
The Second Annual Saint Mary's "Fitness Fair" is to­day in the Haggar College Center. The fair is sponsored by the Health and Counseling Services Committee. Activities begin with a 6 p.m. talk entitled "Fats of Life: The Changing American Diet" by Deborah Morris, a nutritionist at the St. Joseph Health and Lifestyle Center. The fair also will feature booths with displays on a varietv of health and fitness tonics. -The Observer 

Weather · 
Partly sunny but not too warm. The high will be 28 with a 30 percent chance of snow flurries this afternoon.-The Observer 
Today's issu" was produ<'"d by:

The ObseiWr-
Th" Ob""rv"r ( l'~~ ~99 l-~000) is puhlishcd Monday through frida)' and 
on home fuuthall Saturdays, c:xcc:pr 
durinJ( rxam and \'acation pc.·rimh. The 
Observer is published hy the.· studc:nt:'tof the.· l!nivc.·r!rt.ll}' of N1Hrt' Dame.· and Saint Mary'!t Collc:gc:. SubM·riptions may he.· 
ptm·hasc:d fur Jl~ per )'car ( J I~ per 
.'temt·.o;rer) b)' writing The Observer, 
P ( l. 8ox !J, Nolrt• llamc,lndiana ~6~~6. 
The Observer is a mc:mbc:r ofThe As· 

soclated Press. All rt·pro<.luc.·tion righrs 
are rc.·st.·rvt:d. 




Mardi Gras paradox is a way of life in New Orleans 
NEW ORLEANS -Anthropologistscall Mardi uras an inversion ceremony because persons do today ex­Paul McGinn actly the opposite of what they would do any other 

Executive Editor
day of the year. 

New Orleanians, however, call Mardi Gras a way of life -and with good reason -they live for it. It has Inside Tuesday been said the city spends its time from the Epiphany (when the Carnival season officially begins) till Fat Tuesday celebrating Mardi Gras and the rest of the junk. It is so unthinkable, almost sinful, to think such year planning for it. money could be wasted on silver-dollar sized 


Many go so far as to blame Mardi Gras for making aluminum doubloons, plastic necklaces or beads. It New Orleans into a powder puff city. They claim New would seem even more absurd to think some Carnival Orleans lacks the tenacity to attract industries and Krewes spend money for "official" throws such as financial institutions which have made Houston, garters, panties and megaphones. Dallas and Atlanta into superpower cities of the South. In fact it would seem ludicrous for money to be 
In large measure, such critics are correct. Most per­spent in such ways any other time of the year in New sons here are often more worried about having a good Orleans. But today, it is not only tolerated -it is en­couraged. 
New Orleanians parade not without their sins, however. Still a much segregated tradition, Mardi Gras revolves around an old guard of 2000 white families who control the more well-known jlarades 
and Carnival organizations. 
l 
Yet many of the self-proclaimed blu bloods ironically cannot even trace their family histor"J( more than 100 years back because they, much as the rest of New Orleans are descendants of European refugees. 
Mardi Gras parades are not for the social elite only. Blue collar,. middle class white collar and black . organizations flourish here, each with a distinct heritage. 
But the biggest Mardi Gras spot is reserved for the crowds. They, who pay absolutely nothing for the ex­travaganza, are the real beneficiaries of Mardi Gras parades. They have Fat Tuesday and a week and a half before it to drink, eat and scream for junk. 
Mardi Gras' official colors are purple, gold and green. But Carnival needs only one official color to describe its place in the Crescent City -Ash Wednes­

time than making New Orleans into a little New York day grey. City. Natives would rather be happy, drunk and in­significant than dull, sober and in charge. If there is any tradition which typifies the city's 
Not that New Orleans does not have a power struc­racism, sexism and materialism, it is Mardi Gras ­ture of its own -Mardi Gras remains the pillar of New men scream to women to bare their breasts in ex­Orleans "society." change for beads, while black flambeaux (kerosene 
. -., h 11 I : I k torches) carriers scramble for pennies beneath the
For these social elite and those w o want ro oo important, Mardi Gras provides a convenient oppor­floats of image-conscious law~~~· doctqrs and tunity to jump on Huey P. Long's "share the wealth" bankers. > bandwagon. Parades become a symbol of noblesse But Mardi Gras, as most of NewQleans, cahnot be oblige whereby the wealthy under the heading of "pro so easily dismissed as immoral. M~Ldi Gras, IJIUCh as bono publico" (motto of the Krewe of Rex) distribute its hometown, is a living paradox ·.:one just has to be trinkets and their guilt. here to experience it. c 
Nowhere else in the United States do members of the establishment dress up like fools and ride through city streets throwing to crowds upwards of $5000 worth of 
Feeling Under Pressure? Tense? Can't Sleep?
•: Ihe= :• 
Learn to relax--call--239-7793 and askfor Tape 37


: =Obsenrer _: 
"Relaxation Exercises" 
-COUNSELINE­
• would like to • 
Monday-Thursday 4-10 pm


: hear from you. 
• 

239-7793

•• L------------------------------------------~ 





~~:~~-1 
: MOCK CONVENTION ~ : 
DELEGATES 
• 

. .,•:• 
Still need 200 more
• :1 

ND-SMC, Dems-Repubs, EVERYONE
: Express your e! : opinions :1 
Don't miss out on the greatest time! 


1 through a letter •••! .• : to the editor: .,I 
Speeches by Senators and Congressman ~ -~----.-,SIGN UP RIGHT AWAY
• P.O. Box_Q ::
• 


IN LAFORTUNE
: Notre Dame, IN :1 • 46556 • 


~~~~~==!:~=~~co~ 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
-

The Obserwr 
U.S. bishops critical 

of government's policy on Central America 
By KATHEY CONLEY  U.S.  foreign  policy  creates  a  
News Staff  Central  American  battlefield  for  
the United States and  the Soviet  
"The United States may be head­ Union,"  he  said,  adding  that  
ed toward an indirect war in Cen­ political  upheave)  in  Central  
tral America," said Father William  America is inevitable.  
Lewers, director of the Office of  U.S. Catholic bishops feel U.S.  
International Justice and Peace in  policy  is  counter-productive  
because it creates  a  "state-ofsiege  
mentality," said Lewers. This stems  
from the U.S ships stationed off  
the Central American  coasts  and  
U.S.  troops  in  the  countries.  
Lewers  emphasized  the  U.S.  
Catholic bishops formed their opi­ 
nion in conjunction with Central  
American  bishops  through  visits  
and other lines of communication.  


Tuesday, March 6, 1984 -page 3 

Hart leads Mock Convention Poll 
By JOHN McGREEVY 
News Staff 

Although most of the attention surrounding yester­day's elections involved class officer races, there was another ballot before Notre Dame students. 
Democratic presidential candidate Gary Hart won a decisive victory in a straw poll set up by the Mock Convention to give students the chance to name their favorite candidate in the Democratic presidential con­test. 
Hart gained 41.4 percent of the vote, finishing well ahead of Walter Mondale's 16.2 percent. Senator John Glenn finished closely behind Mondale with 15.2 percent. Fellow Democrat Reuben Askew pulled a sur­prising fourth place finish with 10.4 percent. Other candidates were Jesse Jackson, 9.8 percent; George McGovern, 3.2 percent; Ernest Hollings, 2 percent; and Alan Cranston, 1.7 percent. 
"This poll is not binding on the delegates," em­phasized Mock Convention Chairman Tom O'Leary, "we just thought it would be interesting to see who the students prefer at this point." 
A long-standing Notre Dame tradition, the Mock Convention parallels the national convention of the party currently out of power. It will be held April 4-7 this year. 
Although a recent Observer/Mock Convention poll had Walter Mondale in the lead. O'Leary had con­
sidered  today's  poll  a  toss-up.  All  announced  
Democratic  candidates  including  those  who  have  
dropped out, were on the ballot.  

Republican and independent students were also en­couraged to register their preference in the poll. The poll was supervised by the Mock Convention and the 
. Student Election Board. 
The U.S. bishops, according to Lewers, believe the "U.S. should 

Neighborhood Roots tour shows use its influence to bring about a cease-fire. The conflicts can't and shouldn't be won. A bloodbath will 

unique aspect of South Bend 
be inevitable. 

He said the bishops feel the U.S. By PATSAIN neighborhoods, and their impor­values and lifestyles they repre­has no business being involved in Senior StaffReporter tance as building blocks of cities. sent," Broden said. "We want to ex­covert activities in Central Successful strategies for revitaliz­pose students to the South Bend­
Fr. William Lewers American governments and aid "What is a neighborhood?" ing and preservation strategies will Mishawaka neighborhoods that Washington D.C., in a lecture last should not come from individual Neighborhood Roots, a program also be presented. surround Notre Dame," said Mary night. . governments. "This is a time to end designed to show Notre Dame and The program takes place on Ann Roemer, special events and 
Emphasizing the U.S. govern­intervention in Central America," Saint Mary's students the ethnicity, April 5. Students and drivers leave concerns coordinator for the ment's stand and its "need to he said. architecture, and unique aspects of the Library Circle at 4 p.m., and Center for Social Concerns. change its course in Central Lewers, a former instructor at South Bend's neighborhoods can return at 8 p.m. Registration for "We try to dissipate the idea that America," Lewers addressed the Notre Dame's law school, has answer this question. the program will be during the next all city neighborhoods are slums," issue of the U.S. government and worked with Cesar Chaves and the Students tour selected two weeks in the dining halls, and said Broden. "Within deteriorating the Catholic Church in Central United Farmworker's Organizing neighborhoods, accompanied by a costs $4. The program will be neighborhoods, there are a number America before a small crowd in Committee as well as the California Notre Dame or Saint Mary's facul­limited to 125 students. of well-kept homes, indicating peo­St. Mary's Carroll Hall. Rural Legal Assistance Program. ty or staff member who points out "The idea is to notice ple who care about their 



JOBS ARE AVAILABLE FOR. MONTESSORI rEACHERS -ONE Of THEM CAN BE YOURS! 
That's right. The demand for qualified Montessori teachers is not being satisfied. And we can easily prepare you for this rewarding career. Our proven program combines classroom study at the College of New Rochelle, N.Y. plus paid internship and continuing consultations. 
You choose from the broadest range of American Montessori Society accredited programs available in the U.S. 
Seniors 


Senior Fellow Nominations Open Ballot Election Wednesday, March 7 
L'aFortune 11:30am-1 pm Dining Halls 5 pm-6:30 pm 
Tickets available at both dining halls and LaFortune, this week and next. 

characteristics of each characteristics of neighborhoods," neighborhood." neighborhood. said Tom Broden, director of the The tour goes through a cross­
The tour is followed by a tradi­Institute of Urban Studies. "For ex­section of neighborhoods, Broden tional Hungarian dinner at Our ample, the neat, cared-for homes in said. Students are shown stable Lady of Hungary Church, served the Polish and Hungarian central city neighborhoods, and by members of the parish. neighborhoods indicate a high Polish, Hungarian, Hispanic and 
· After dinner, Professors Tom value on the family and home." black neighborhoods. Swartz and John Roos will give a "The program is not to see just "The overwhelming reaction of slide presentation on physical structures, but to see what students who go on Neighborhood 
[l:orby~sJ 


"Tuesday Night Special"
:JI..•• 

3-7p.m. Mixeet Drinks 2 for 1 7·11 p.m.lmports.•.$1 

Tues -Fri 8-6 · 
Sat 8-2 
Closed Sun and Mon 
277-0734 



"MEET YOUR MAJOR" Sophomores and undeclared 
TODAY  
Department  Room  Time  
Economics Education Government Communication/ ~ledia Studies  Koom 104, O'Shag Room 303, Cushing Room 204, O'Shaa Loft, O'Shaq "  4: 30-~:30 P~l 4:30-5:30 PM 5:30-6:30 PM 6:30-7:30 PM  

Roots is that they enjoyed the meal and the program," according to Broden. 



Lent begins tomorrow 

Special to The Observer 
The liturgical season of Lent 

begins with the observance of 
Ash Wednesday tomorrow. This 
season is marked by prayer, 
fasting and almsgiving as ex­
pressions of the Christian need 
for individual and communal 
repentance, said Father Mark 
Poorman of Campus Ministry. 
The Office of Campus 

Ministry has posted the follow­
ing schedule for Masses on Ash 
Wednesday: 
11:30 a.m.-Father Steve Gib­son, celebrant 
5 p.m. -Father Edward Malloy, celebrant In Stanford-Keenan chapel: 
12:30 p.m. -Father Robert Griffin, celebrant 
For the remainder of Lent, masses will be in Sacred Heart Church at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 
p.m. and in the Stanford­Keenan chapel at 12:30 p.m. Confessions are heard fifteen 
• Infant/Toddler-Birth to 3 years (the first accredited program for 
masses in Sacred Heart Church
SENIOR CLASS STUDY BREAK 
this age group). 
and at 7 p.m. daily. Stations of
I 

the Cross will be observed every 
• Pre-Primary -3 to 6 years. 
I 

Friday at 7:15p.m. in the Chur­
• Elementary -6 to 9, 9 to 12 and 6 to 12 years. LaFortune, floor 1.5 
I 

ch. 
A Program Representative will be ln:S.o\.!Ul Bend/Mishawaka 
I on March 11 and 12 at the Little Flower Montessori School to I discuss the details with you in person. Call collect (914) 10:30 tonight I 472-0038 Day!9r Evening to schedule a m~~ting for either day. I I I
Take a break and meet your 
I


MONTESSORI ¥~~~~~~~~UCATION friends, plus free ice cream! I 
25 Roxbury Road, Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 I





-----------------------------J 
I 
minutes prior to the daily
r----------------------------~ 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t___________________Tu-es-da-y,_Ma-rc-h6_,1_98-4--pa_g~~4 
Reagan's loan request denied 
Dear Ronald Reagan: 
As you know, we have written you previously about your past due deficit and have yet to get a satisfactory response. This is our final letter. We know your credit rating is important to you and so we are tak­ing this opportunity to review your financial 
Richard Cohen 

The Cohen Column 

situation. Immediate attention to this pro­blem is required or we will have to take fur­ther action. 
When you first contacted this office in 1980, you said you would be able to lower taxes, increase defense spending and balance the budget. This office had grave doubts about your plan, but we allowed you to pro­ceed because your business is important to us. 
But Mr. Ronald Reagan, you have not been able to balance the budget. According to our figures, your budget will be short $200 billion by the end of fiscal 1985. If this sum is added to previous deficits, we are talking of a debt approaching a trillion dollars. Mr. Ronald Reagan, we value your business, but 
you have done nothing to bring your budget into balance. 
Mr. Ronald Reagan, in 1980 you said you would balance the budget. Every year since, you have made the same claim. Not only did you fail to balance the budget as promised, bu also the budget you recently submitted to this office shows an additional deficit. As usual, you say you will attend to this pro­blem next year. 
Mr. Ronald Reagan, we have been very patient with you, but look at what you have done. The government has to borrow its funds somewhere and it will be competing with others for the limited money available. This either will keep interest rates at the cur­rent high level, or increase them further. As you know the cost of borrowing money (interest rates) is reflected in t he price of almost everything -from new cars to new houses. 
But additionally, Mr. Ronald Reagan, a perusal of your statements indicates that you do not know what you are doing. We are sorry for being so blunt, but this office has gone over your books and discovered that you are now sp. ending more on interest payments than you have cut from social pro­grams for the poor. In other words, what you have taken from poor people you are now giving to bankers and rich foreign in­vestors. 
This office also has concluded, Mr. Ronald Reagan, that high interest rates and the prospect that they will go even higher have attracted a lot of foreign money to this country. We need not tell you that this is not good. 
The result is that the dollar has increased in value, meaning cheap meals for a privileg­ed few in Paris, but -more important -a higher cost for American exports. This means that American fir ms that do business abroad are being priced out of the market. At the same time, foreign firms now are able to sell here more cheaply. This accounted for a $60.6-billion trade deficit in 1983 and a projected deficit of $100 billion for 1984. 
Mr. Ronald Reagan, we have written to you repeatedly about these matters and all we get back is promises that the budget will be balanced -but the promise always is for next year. 
This is unacceptable to us. While normally we refrain from telling clients how to con­duct their business, it seems obvious to us that you cannot continue both to spend the way you have on defense and also permit the rich to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. Your figures indicate that the rich enjoyed the major share of your tax reductions. A lit­tle corporate tax would not hurt, either. 
In the end, Mr. Ronald Reagan, these choices are up to you. But we cannot con­tinue to finance your debt or continue to rely on your promises that next year you will balance the budget. This, then, is your final warning. You have refused to respond ade­quately to previous letters. Therefore, we must inform you that your request for another $200 billion loan is denied. 
We are sorry to have taken such stern measures. We always have valued your business, but we feel that you have taken, ad­vantage of the liberal credit policies extefjded to your predecessors. Remember, your cqedit rating is important to you. But frankly, Mr. Ronald Reagan, you don't have 1one anymore. 
(c) 1984, The Washington Post Company 




The engineering program at Notre Dame 
The Observer's editorial "Freshman engineers face impossible schedule" (Feb. 24) invites response. Engineering freshmen are not being deprived of a liberal education. 
A careful examination of the new engineering curricula should reveal that the Humanities/SS requirements for the B.S. degree in engineering are now greater by 12 
James Carberry 
Guest Column 

to 37 percent than was required in the previous program. And since the article singles out the draconian nature of the chemical engineering program, be it noted that under our new program the student of chemical engineering can graduate with 33 credits of Humanities/Arts -said sequence being carefully structured to avoid the previous system of "Buffet electives." 
In sum, under the present and enlightened administration of the Engineering College, our engineering graduates will be beneficiaries of a more liberal education 


P.O. Box Q 

JPWeekend 

Dear Editor: 
We would like to join the many parents of Notre Dame juniors in thanking the faculty and students for a beautiful weekend. We will treasure those few days forever. 
Everyone who spoke thanked us for com­ing, but we believe the gratitude should go to all who worked so many months to arrange the weekend, the administration and faculty who gave so freely of their time and the students who made us feel so welcome. You gave us many precious hours for us. 
A very special thank you to all in the food services and the students who carried moun­tains of trays to so beautifully feed us. Also, the dorms who worked so hard on the warm receptions. 
Bob and Rosa lee Stevens 


P. 0. /lox Q. Nolrd)ame.IN ·16556 
than was available for their unfortunate predecesors of the past decade. Might we hope that one day our Arts and Letters and Business graduates will enjoy comparable exposure to literacy in the fundamental sciences? 
As for the terrors of the Freshman Year for engineering intents, an historical perspective is merited. Until the late 60s every engineering major at Notre Dame was required to take two years of physics, com­mencing in the first semester of the freshman year. Decades of experience demonstrate that freshman year physics is a unique barometer of the student's ability to master subsequent engineering disciplines. Physics is also, incidently, a magnificent discipline in the spectrum of Liberal Education. To be ig­nmant of Newton's world is as tragic as it is to be innocent of that of Dante, Shakespeare and Marx. 
The restoration of the two year physics se­quence for engineering students is, then, hardly novel. Nor draconian and surely not 'impossible.' It, this requirement for freshman 
benefits those equal to its signal challenges and those who fail to cope with its demands. 
For the latter learn that perhaps an engineering major is one in which their otherwise fine talents are not best accom­modated. Is that not the purpose of the Freshman Year of Studies? 
Engineering is a demanding discipline. As too is history, or comparative literature or government to cite but a few humanistic call­
callings. But the talents required of each are hardly interchangeable. Wisely, this thesis is the engine of the Freshman Year. Simply put, intentions must be confronted with a means whereby talents are justly evaluated. 
For the engineering intents, the 'means' consist of Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. It hardly serves the aspirants to confront them with a diluted 'means,' thus luring them into the shock wave of the up­perclass engineering programs. 
Nor has the Art and Letter's content of the freshman program been compromised. The English, Seminar and History/SS sequence remains intact. For the chemical engineering major there then remains 24 credit hours of the remaing three years. The days of the sweet wine and wilted roses of the cafeteria A & L elective system are over as far as the faculty of the Chemical Engineering Depart­ment is concerned. 
The best of all worlds? Hardly. While the restored and revitalized engineering cur­ricula correct blatant inadequacies of the past decade, an even greater infusion of Humanities/ Arts is surely needed. During my first decade here, all engineering seniors were required to take Collegiate Seminar. I would celebrate the restoration of a com­parable requirement. Indeed such should be a university-wide requirement. 

For engineering majors there can be no doubt that the five year AS-Engineering pro­gram approaches ideality in all respects save that of the parent's pocketbook. But until the AS-Engineering program is elevated to an economically feasible reality for the majority we must labor to see that the Notre Dame engineering student is challenged by the very best education -liberal and professional. 
James C~rberry is a professor vf Chemical 


Editorial Board Depat1ment Managers
Editor-in-Chief............................... David Dziedzic Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe 
( 219) 239·5303 Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen 
The Obslrt•lr is the imkpt·mknt newspapl'f published by the students of the l'ni­Executive Editor .................................Paul McGinn Controller ...............................................Alex Szilvas \Trsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint :\lary':-. Colkgt·. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager ..........................Jeanie Poole the polides of the administration of t'itht·r institution. The news is reported as ac· News Editor ....................................Mark Worscheh circulation Manager......................... Mark Miotto curatdy and as ohjt•ctivdy as po!'>:-.ihle. I 'nsigned editorials rt·present the opinon of a Saint Mary's Edttor ..................Anne Monastyrski .~ystems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters. and the lnsidt' Column present Sports Etlitor .............................,.,.,M.iW!ael Sullivan the views ofthdr authors. Column span· is available to all members of the community. Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher 
Founded November 3, 1966 

and tht· fn·t·expres..,ion ofvarying opinions on campus. through ktters. is encouraged. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower 


~ports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held this Saturday, March 10, from 2-4:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. Please enter O'Shag through the big doors facing the quad. The tournament entry fee this year will be five dollars and the commissioners would like to remind everyone that no names containing vulgarity or personal attacks upon other students will be accepted at the time of registration. -The Observer 
A Broom ball Brawl. sponsored by NVA, will take place March 10 from 3:45-5:45. There will be open skating and a broomball tournament. Skates amy be rented for $1. There will also be a snack stand. Turn in broom ball rosters to the NVA office by March 7. -The Observer 
The ND women's golf team will have a man­datory meeting today at the varsity coaches office in the ACC. The purpose of the meeting is to view videotapes and discuss the spring and fall schedule. All members must attend.-The Observer 
In lnterhall basketball action last night, the Off­Campus team barely defeated St. Ed's in double overtime 47-46 in the losers bracket of the A Division. Mike Muldowney of St. Ed's hit two freethrows with no time remaining to send the game into overtime. Tim Wiilis added his own pair of freethrows to give the OC the victory. Tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Pit, OC takes on Sorin in the championships. Because the tournament is double­elimination, OC must beat Sorin twice in order to gain the title. In the B Division, Morrissey beat another OC team 45-32 also in the losers bracket. At 6 p.m. in the Pit tomorrow, Morrissey battles 
Grace. At 6 p.m. in the Pit tomorrow , Morrissey battles Grace. -The Observer 
ND Water Polo Club has begun practices at the Rockne Memorial . All interested people are invited to attend. 
The Observer 
Tuesday, March 6, 1984-page 5 
Stepan Center will be closed for recreation through Saturday, March 10. The Bengal Bouts will be going on during that time. -The Observer 
The hockey awards banquet will be held tonight at the South Bend Turner's on Ironwood. Cocktails begin at 6:30 
p.m. with a buffet dinner served at 7:30p.m. The banquet is spon­sored by the Blue Line Club. Tickets, which are $7.50 for students and $8.50 for non-Blue Line club members, will be sold at both games this weekend. For more information, call the hockey office at 239-5227. -The Observer 

A camping and backpacking clinic will be 
held Monday, March 10 in the football auditorium of the ACC. The instructors are from the Outpost Trading Center. Anyone who wishes how to camp and backpack is encouraged to attend. -The Observer 

The Notre Dame men's swimming team 
finished in eighth place in the Midwest Invitational over the weekend. One bright spot for the Irish happened in the 200 butterf­ly. Co-captain Dan Flynn set a new varsity record, and new pool record with his 1 :52.04 time. -The Observer 
A scuba diving class is being offered by NVA. The six-week, non-credit course will meet twice weekly. Graduates will be lifetime YMCA-certified divers. An organizational meeting will be held tomorrow at 5;45 p.m. in Rockne room 218. -The 
Observer 

The NV A Fitness Screening still has some open times available. Call Sally at 239-6690 for more information. The Observer 
Express signsBYU QBYoung 
By KEN PETERS 
Associated Press 
The Los Angeles Express of the United States Football League scored a major coup yesterday lan­ding Brigham Young quarterback Steve Young with a staggering $40 million contract that is the richest pact ever for an athlete. 
Young, one of the most prolific passers in college history, will benefit from the contract that runs for 43 years until he is 65. 
A left-hander who set or tied 13 NCAA pasing and total offense records while at BYU, Young had been courted by the National Foot­ball League's Cincinnati Bengals, who told him they would make him the first pick in the May i NFL draft. The Bengals' offer was a reported $3.5 million over five years, including a $1 million sign­ing bonus. 
The 6-foot-2, 196-pound Young said earlier he'd rather play in the NFL, but decided over the weekend to sign with the Express. 
"It was a very tough decision and it came after much deliberation on my part," YOung said. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of laFonune Student Center, accepts classified advenising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office,.located on the third floor oC Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in personor by mail. Charge is 10 cents per five charac­




Classifieds 
ters r day. 
GOING TO DENVER FuR SPRING
LOST: A GRAY DOWN FACKET AT BREAK&
A PARTY AT CAMPUS VIEW ON Well I need a ride, so if you have

NOTICES 
SATURDAY NIGHT. CALL JOE AT room in your car and you need

Are you in need of FINANCIAL 234-9114 IF YOU KNOW WHAT another passenger call Maripat
AID? Leadership Training!. HAPPENED TO IT. 7877
Challenge! Adventure! SCHOLAR­SHIPS! ARMY ROTC! SeP. LTC Bob LOST: a gold Smith-Corona electric Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman In the typewriter in black carrying case!!· 
SOPHOM.ORES! Interested inROTC Building (239-6264). II was lost In Zahm Hall. Please becoming an Army Officer? In­

return. If found please call 8875 or

"'"'"J[' 
terested in Scholarships? See LTC ENOUGH!!! 8876, or return to Lost and Found in Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman Hey guys, cool it with the sweats the Admin. Bldg. Thank you. 

in the ROTC Building (239-6264).

and jackets, okay? It W..s ONLY the Uberty Bowl! FOUND One pair of blue mittens with white pattern. please claim at 
LONG ISLAND CLUB SPRING OBUD counter in LaFortune. Aid.. for 2 DHded to Boston for Spring BREAK BUS SIGN UPS· Wed, March Break. Call Rob atJIJO. 7 at 7:00PM in Lafortune. lost: pair Black Saranac Ski Gloves ············· in 104 Hurley March 1. Call Dave 
RIDE TO MT. PLEASANT OR LANS­BOSTON CLUB BUS· LAST CHANCE ING FOR BREAK. CALL SUE AT 277­
8728

TO GO TO BOSTON FOR BREAK. 1368. WiD s.b""' •x....,.... SIGN UPS ON WEDNESDAY AT 7:00 PM MARCH 7. $50 DEPOSIT MAN­NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN NJ FOR 
LOST: STRAWBERRY RED DATORY$115 ROUNDTRIP. BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. BREAK. CAN LEAVE AS EARLY AS ALL WOOL, PULLOVER, I LOST IT 2 WED AFTERNOON, MARCH 14, OR 3 WEEKS AGO. IF FOUND, REturn Sunday, March 15. Please call Janetat4673
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND #:30 
ON FIRST FLOOR OF ADMIN. BLDG. OR CALL BUDDY 8728 ANYTIME. REWARD. THANK YOU. 

CHOOSE UFE FOR YOUR BABY! 
NEED RIDE FOR BREAK TO BUF­
ST. A.P.F.U. 

FALO, ROCHESTER, OR SYRACUSE. TION! INFERTILE COUPLE WANTS CONSIDER THE OPTION OF ADOP­
Call dan at 1601. FOUND--GIRLS'S LIGHT BROWN

TO ADOPT INFANT. WRITE P.O. Box 5398, Ft. Wayn•. In 46805 
GLASSES WITHOUT GREEN CASE NEED ONE RIDER TO EAST PA. ALUMNI PARTY ROOM FRI FEB 24th ALLENTOWN/READING AREA FOR 

You've got 24 hours. Call Chad 1142 SPRING BREAK. LEAVING 3/16. Call Summer Sales Positions. Average Dean11651. earnings $2700. Sell yellow page SIX TIMID GUYS STILL LOOKING advertising for Notre Dame and FOR DATE TO THE WAKE! TAKING RIDE NEEDED TO LAUDERDALE Western Michigan University Cam­APPLICATIONS NOW. CALL BOB ON 3/16! !Call Michelle 8136 pus Telephone Directories. Spend 5 I 1107 
weeks in Notre Dame ar.d 5 weeks in NEEDED: RIDERS TO THE TWIN Kalamazoo. Car necessary. No sum­CITIES FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL mer school students. Lodging and BILLAT3230 one meal per day provided while in FOR RENT Kalamazoo. Qualified students should call University Directories, 1· tiouse for rent next fall -6 or 7 800-334-4436, for more Information by bedrooms-two miles from campus . RIDE NEEDED TO CINCINNATI March 31st. Ask for BarbaRA $400 per month plus deposit and LEAVING THURS 3/15 after 2:30 p.m. Nleukirk utilities. 233-2704. WUI share usual. Usa 2734 
NEED RIDERS TO NEWPORT NEWS, VA AREA FOR BREAK. JOHN 8824 

\ LOST/FOUN~ I i~.--_TIC_K_ET_s_____. 
RIDERS NEEDED: DENVER-C. SPR­INGS CALL 1100 

FOR SALE: FOUR TICKETS TO YES LOST HELP!! 14 kt gold earring, CONCERT FRIDAY MARCH 9 AT 
RIDE NEEDED DETROIT -BILL 8837 sheild shape, 1.25 in. diameter ROSEMONT HORIZON. CALL Jed REWARD!!! if found please calf Need ride to NJ for break. Liz 1267 .
AT 1245or 1670 

234·1170 alter 5 best. 


WANTED 

NEED ONE RIDER TO TAMPA/ST. HELP!! To whoever accidentally PETE AREA FOR SPR!NG BREAK. Riders needed to D.C. or U. Va Call
took my navy blue/grey-light blue ROUND TRIP. LEAVING 3/16 return­
Jim 6437 ....

winter jacket from the Bertino· ing 3/27. call272-3749 David Campus View party on Sat. 
Need ride to Wash DC area 3/16 Call 

25. Please return!! I'm freezing! 
Carolyn 1267 ..

Call Terry at 8875 or 8876, or drop it 
Need ride for 2 to NYC area for spr­off at Lost and Found in the Admin. 
NEED RIDE TO DENVER and time ing break. Deb SMC4265 

Bldg. Thank You 
alter 2:30pm Thursday for Spring Break. Call SUE 283-6280 . Lost: 1 pair of navy dress pants last week. If found, call Mike at 6835. GOING TO OR THROUGH ATLAN· NEED RIDE TO DC for Spring Break. TA FOR SPRING BREAK?""" J:)J>•Wifl ''share·usual. Call Monil:ll'£94. 2 rides needed. Call Laura 264-5154 5451 
.. 

REWARD for return of bookbag 
NEED RIDE: For Spring Break to with EE books inside lost 2/21 at BOSTON FOR BREAK! I NEED Pensecola or Alabama Coast Will 
·south Dining Hall. Call ED at 3110. RIDE-ED1580 share expenses-call264-5177 

FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: AKA! RECEVER, AKAI INTERGRATED AMP, AKA! TURN­TABLE AKAI SPEAKERS: $800 OR BEST OFFER. 289-4454. KEN BEFORE3:00 
IRISH JAUNTING CART -Made in Cork County Ireland. From State Museum, Cooperstown, NY. $4000. Arbuckle Appliances, THE RAILROAD PLACE, Noblesville, IN, 317-773-3915. 
ATARI 400 COMPUTER WITH EX­PANDED MEMORY 48K. PLUS RANA 1000 DOUBLE DENSITY DISK DRIVE, BASIC CARTRIDGE AND JOYSTICK. 
$575 Negotiable. 289-2646 
S-C Prtable Eloc Typewriter ex cond, $250 ...,.., asking $100. ACOUSTIC guitar, ex cond $140 new asking $70. lv msg for jobn m. at239-7097 
TAPES MAXELL'S 2.65 and tdk's $2.50 eacb Dan Meakin 277-l306 

PERSONALS 
Real Prognuners don't writ• in FOR­TRAN. FORTRAN is for pipe stress f...U. ~ad crystallf11!rapby weenies... 
COSMOS FEVER..........CURE IT!!!!!!!! ........... . 
The Pizza Guide to EE354 This is the class method. We'll order 40 piz­zas, two at a time, Of each pair, both will be the same type but from dif­ferent places (Godfather's vs. Domino's, Julio's vs. Bruno's). We'll designate one to be true, and one false. Which ever of that pair arrives first is the answer to correspo;1ding question. Bring $5.00 to help defray costs............. . 
ATIENTION TO ALL THE PEOPLE WHO KNOW MAUREEN AKA CARROT-TOP: CARROT-TOP WOULD LIKE EVERYONE TO KNOW THAT SHE IS OFFICIALLY GIVING UP THE CANCER STICKS, AND SHE WOULD LIKE YOUR HELP TO OVER­COME HER ADDICTION ..... . 
HAVE YOU REGISTERED TO VOTE? 
OR ARE YOU JUST APATHETIC, LAZYAND IRRESPONSIBLE? . .. 
Be nice to your favorite P.E. woman and maybe she'll ask YOU to Monte Carlo Night! ......., . , 
One nuclear bomb can ruin your whole day! ... 
HEY SHEENA EASTWOOD, CLINT SENDS LOVE AND KISSES ON YOUR fifiND BIRTHDAY.LIVE IT UP.GUESS WHO? ............ . 
MOLEPIEAD YOU STRAY DOG, YOU! WHERE WERE YOU FRIDAY NITE? ARF!! ............ . 
KATIE COONANHappy Birthday to my favorite "Valley Girl" roommate. Love, Jayne .......... . 
But seriously, folks: The sound of a coin flipping is too loud. Try instead using the Random Number Generator on a Hewlett-Packard-they're much quieter and accurate to more decimal· places! ........... . 
T.-WELCOME TO BERMUDA? TRY 
, .., T.HE" BAHAMAS INSTEAD!! ONLY TWO MORE WEEKS-LOOK OUT FREEPORT!! -C ....... . 
Theron Roberts may be a man-god, but it's just his job........ . 
Attn 4th yr arkies:lf it's the right car, and it's the right price, don't just take a drive, take a ---trip. For better ser­vice, for the best price, don't just take a drive, take a --trip. Take a trip, take a trip, take a ---Motors trip. Happy bir­thday, PAT!. ....... . 
GO AHEAD... MAKE MY DAY!GIMME A RIDE TO BOSTON FOR SB.will share usual. Call Rod 8703 .... 
TO MY BESTEST BROTHER (HiE FACT THAT YOU ARE MY ONLY BROTHER DOESN'T MEAN ANYTHING). HAPPY BELATED BIR· THDAY! LOVE SUSAN. P.S. TO ME, YOUR NAME WILL NEVER BE BILL! 
LUSH AND FISH: FRUSTRATION IS A TERRIBLE THING, ISN'T IT?? ... 
THEOLOGY..."MEET YOUR MAJOR'. Thursday, March 8, 5;30-6:30 p.m. room 331 O'Shaugnessy...refreshments.... 
TO MY BIG BROTHERS:YOUR LIT­TLE SISTER CAN HANDLE HERSELF. THANKS FOR OFFERING. I'M SURE IT WAS OUT OF LOVE AND CONCERN, BUT TRY TO SHOW IT DIFFERENTLY. HE'S NOT A SCHMUCH! THE BOYS ARE OUT OF THE BATHROOM--IT'S UP TO YOU TO KEEP THE SKELTON IN THE CLOSET (I'M COUNTING ON YOU) LOVE, THE UTILE SISTER FROM CASPER. WYOMING P.S. DON'T WORRY, PAUL, THEY'RE ALL TALK AND NO ACTION ........ . 
BOSTON CLUB BUS -THERE ARE STILL A FEW SPOTS LEFT ON THE SPRING BREAK BUS. THERE WILL tiE A SIGN-UP AT 7:00 PM ON WEDNESDAY MARCH 7 IN LAFOR­TUNE. $115 ROUND TRIP, $50 MAN­DATORY DEPOSIT. 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE SEND A BELLYGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK! PH.272-1858 
GO MEGGERS!WIN BOOKSTORE! 
WANT TO GET INVOLVED? OM­BUDSMAN NEEDS YOU! Applica­tions for Executive Board positions are available today thru March 7. Pick one up ate the OBUD counter in the lobby of LaFortune from 12-5 M-F. Any Questions, contact Andy at 239­0BUD. Leave completed applications at OBUD for Andy be Wednesday3/7 at5:00. 
......................... CKH, THANKS FOR THE STUDY BREAK!LOVE, JT ..... 
sign ups for the LONG ISLAND CLUB Spring Break Bus will be Wednesday, March 7 at 7:00 PM in LaFortune. Price: $65.00 ROUNDTRIP. 
Hey ARKIES! Grave, Venturi, Eisen­
• man, or Tigerman we're not-but at least we can work TOGETHER...VI­CIAN HENDERSON MASON CLIF­FORD 
NEEDED: PUNT returaen. Ov•r 17 and 
PASS members need not apply it's foartb and loag: then's no doubt, we11 PUNT. Unless, of coarse, someone can rome up witb a better PASS•.•Do any Lewis girls know bow to play football? 
MONTE CARLO NIGHT MONTE CARLO NIGHT MONTE CARLO NIGHT 
SATURDAY, MARCH 10,1984 
Big Bro:Happy 22nd! Thanks for everything-! coundn't have lasted this far without you. You may be obnox­ious, but i'd never give you up. Love Michelle ..... . 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LI­QUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN .. 
MONTE CARLO NIGHTMONTE CARLO NIGHTMONTE CARLO NIGHT SATURDAY, MARCH 10, 1984 
INSOMNIA HOT LINEHaveing trouble going to bed? calf the new INSOM­NIA hot fine. 287-6247 after 6 p.m. Putting you to boo is our business. 
NEED A RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE WED AFTERNOON. CALL CELESTE AT 7972 alter 7pm 
AMERICANS WITH HART NEEDS YOU. CALL JOHN AT 3377 or BERNIE at 1770 
ground zero meetiul tonight, 7, esc. new members welcome. 
BUFFALO CLUB BUS! YES BUF­FALO CLUB BUS1 FOR SPRING BREAK ONLY $40. ROUNDTRIP. BR­ING CHECK OR CASH TO 1ST FLOOR LAFORTUNE THRS MAR 8, 8­9 p.m. or Calf Greg 1739. Non members welcome! 

r The Observer Tuesday, March 6, 1984 -page 6 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 8 
As in past years, only one former or present NCAA Division I basketball player, male or female, is allowed per team. In addition, no more than three varsity football players are allowed per team, but, if a team has a varsity basketball player on it, the number of allowable varsity football players is then two. 
Should one football player be unable to play for his team, another football player may be substituted for him, as long as he has not played for any other team. Varsity basketball players, however, may not be substituted for varsity basketball players. "Football players" are those per­sons who were listed on the previous fall roster or on the cur­rent spring roster. 
When signing up a team, please be sure to tell the people at the table if your team has any football players on it so that we may schedule those teams only for late games. If anyone on your team is going to the Senior Formal, also tell us about it so that we can avoid any conflict there. It is important to make mention of both of these things because no games will be rescheduled this year. 
Also keep in mind when register­ing your team that team names con­taining vulgarity (i.e. any of George Carlin's seven dirty words) or flagrant attacks upon other students will not under any condi­tions be accepted by the tourna­ment staff. It is not that we want to stifle the great tradition of Bookstore names, only clean them I up to some degree. We only ask that you be creative in choosing a team name, not crude for the sake of being crude. 
The tournament staff will not turn down a creative name, but we will outright reject any team name not complying with the one above rule. Should the captain registering the team refuse to give us another team name, that team will be assigned only a team number or given a generic name, such as Joe's Team. While on the subject of cap­tains, remember that we will need the names of two captains and their phone numbers at the time of registration. 
The tournament itself begins on Friday, April 6 with the Hall of 

Tony 
continuedfrom page 8 
had some 'Slapshot' attributes," he says. "The play was rough, but it was good. It gave me a lot of ex­perience, especially as a 16-year old playing with guys as old as 21." 
Freshman year, Bonadio had just one assist as a walk-on, but more importantly to him, he was named "Rookie of the year." 
In 1981-82, Bonadio added two more assists as well as 32 games to 
• his playing experience. 
Last year, he tallied the game­winning goal in a 3-2 decision over Michigan State. He also con­tributed seven assists on the season. 
When the 1983-84 regular-season concluded a short time ago, Bonadio had by far surpassed any of his previous totals accumulating eight goals and 13 ASSISTS. 
Besides graduation and employ­ment, another big event is drawing nearer in Bonadio's future. "I got engaged over October Break," he says happily. "Julie (Whiting) and I haven't set a dat yet. We're going to wait and see exactly what I'll be doing. But it will probably be about a year from now." 
When Bonadio graduates, he ex­pects that he will miss "the people, the acquaintances and the friends," and aside from all the academic learning, his athletic involvement has taught him something very im­portant. 
Fame game. Full scale tournament action will start up, then, on Sun­day, April 8, and run the gamut of nine rounds until concluding with the finals on April 29 behind the ACC. 
We hope to have 512 teams again this year. Should we reach 512 teams at the time of registration, we will take further teams on a waiting list basis only, and then consider adding more teams to the tournament after registration is complete. 
Still, I wholeheartedly encourage everyone to come on out and par­ticipate in what is "The World's Largest Basketball Tournament." Get a team together with your 


Fencers 
continuedfrom page 8 
ing squad also had a strong show­
ing but was just edged out by 
Wayne State as the Tartars scored 
48 points while the Irish fell short 
at 47. Detroit and Cleveland State 
tied for third with 36 points a piece. 
The lady foilers were led by freshman Pia Albertson who took first place in the tournament with a perfect 18-0 mark for the day. The Swedish native also achieved an automatic berth in the NCAA Championships with her title. Freshman Cindy Weeks (8-5) and sophomore Janet Sullivan (7-6) finished ninth and tenth, respec­tively, for the Irish. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame fenc­
ed Great Lakes and Big Ten friends, enemies, or anyone else you may choose. It's an experience you won't soon forget. 

And if you're not so athletically inclined, no one really cares. First and foremost, this is a fun tourna­ment. Play anyway. If you still have reservations about playing and would like to get involved with the tournament as either a scorekeeper or a dorm rep in charge of getting scorekeepers in your hall, call either Cathy Chopp (6293) or Marc Ramirez (8286). 
It's official. Notre Dame's third major sport is back in town for another year of fun, frolicking, craziness, and, oh yeah, a little basketball. 
representatives at Northwestern and completed its roster for the NCAA by qualifying five more men to have a maximum number of two fencers in each weapon at the national tournament. 
The Lady Irish failed to qualify any other fencers besides Pia Albertson as the women's squad came in fourth just missing a re­quired third place finish to qualify for the NCAA. 
"All of our fencers are better to­day because of the help of assistant coaches Steve Renshaw (Irish sabre coach) and Marc DeJong (Irish foil coach)," explained DeCicco. "With their help and our talent, Notre Dame is going to be tough to beat." 
The Irish will be in action again over break at Princeton as they will by vying for their third national championship under Coach DeCic­co between March 20 and 24. 
i-~~~~~~~EA;~u;~;-1 
f  These new lenses are  f  
f  --easier to care for  f  
ff  --solutions less costly --longer life than soft lenses  f f  
f  Dr. James M. Bowers  f  
f  1606 Miami St.  287-2379  f  

L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SUMMER STO:kAGI SPACE 
Special discount for liDliMO students (5 x 10 spaces and larger) CALL 259-0335 to USIJBVIJ SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 
-





SENIORS 

Senior Formal is just around the corner. Buy your tickets todav. Wednesdav. Thursday, or Friday in the dining halls or LeMans. 
Tickets are only $60.00 for the most exciting event of your Senior Year. 
Interested In Taking A Class In Ballroom Dancing? 
Time-Wednesday, March 7 from 6:30pm -8pm Place -Regina Hall Basement Lounge on Saint Mary's Campus Teacher -Ray Sexton from Indianapolis Cost -$25.00 for 5 weeks (Skip Spring Break) 
Ifyou would like to join this class, you can 
register at the first lesson 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STU­DENTS ONLY. 
THE PART·TIME JOB THAT DOESN'T COMPETE WITH SCHOOL 
If you've got enough to do without trying to find a challenging job that fits into your school calendar, consider the Army Reserve. 
The Reserve has a new split-training program that's tailored to fit almost any student's schedule. You simply take eight weeks of Initial Training one summer and a few months of job skill training the following summer. 
During the school year, you'll serve with a local Army Reserve unit, usually one weekend a month. And after you finish the two summers of training, you'll spend two weeks of training each year, usually in the summer. 
But a good schedule is just one of the ways you'll benefit by joining the Army Reserve. You'll receive more than $7,000 pay for four years of duty. And you might be eligible for one of our special bonuses. 
For more information, call the number below. Or stop by. 
SGT Jones 234-4187 Call Collect 

ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 








~4(Jt~C3L~-------------------------------------------T_u_e_s_d_ay_,_M_a_r_c_h_6_,_19_8_4_-_p_a_ge--7 










Bloom County 


Berke Breathed Campus 
170 YOU At..WAY5 llf?AW 
Wm MAY8£ W~ tiHOV~J7
YOUR NOS£ 
,.;m:N710N 1D A 
JV5T OPeN ~Mre ON 

12:00 p.m. -Ladies of N.D. Scholarship
YOU'R6 

MAN'5 PHY5iCA/.. S1EV€..1H6 
7H€ QUA!ATY OF MY MAYS€.
WH/fJTl.IN&, 

6MBARRA55Mf..NT5 WHO~e MR 
Luncheon, Speaker Gerry Faust, Notre Dame
5TEV€.. 
~~f00.1 WE 5HOUW

17URIN6 'reNP€R COillJ1 HfAR 
University Club 
12:20 p.m. -Business Faculty Forum, "The Role of the U.S. Government in the Asbestos Problem," by John A. McKinney, Chariman of the Board and President of the Manville Corp. and Manville Executive-in­Residence Lecture. Board Room of Hayes Hea­ly 
12:25 p.m. -Econ. Dept. PubUc PoUcy Workshop, "Toxic Waste," by Barbara Powell, NO Grad. Student in Economics. Library
Mellish Dave 


Lounge 


1:00 p.m. -3:30 p.m. -Friends of the MRS. CRlMMS? 

Ubnuy CoUoqulum, "Architecture and the 
GET UD ON 

Library, A Presentation on the Relationship
WJf TWUtEAS£. 


Between Buildings, Societies, and the Library." Lecture with slides followed by questions. Speakers: David Kaser, Prof. of Library Science, IU, and Peter Hoyt, Sr. V.P. of Hellmuth, Obata and Kassabaum. Library Auditorium 
3:30 p.m. -Chem. Engr. Grad. Seminar, "Thermodynamics of Multicomponent III-V Semiconductor Systems," by Terrence L Asesage, Grad. Student, Univ. of Florida. 356 Fitzpatrick 
4:00 p.m. -People and Justice Series, "Redressing : What Can We Do?", by Sister Patricia McClusky, I.H.M. Library Media Center 
Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side Gary Larson 


4:15 p.m. -Manville Executive-In· Residence Lecture, "Was Bankruptcy the Only Answer to Manville's Predicament?" by John A. McKinney, Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
6:00p.m. -Health & Counsel. Services Committee Lecture, "Fats of Life: The Changing American Diet," by Deborah Morris, Nutritionist, St. Joseph Health and Life Style Center. Haggar College Center 
6:30 p.m. -8:00 p.m. -Fitness Fair, Hag­
gar College Center l(f 

6:15p.m.-7:30p.m.-Meeting, of the Sup­19! 
port Group for Graduate Student Women. 
Wilson Commons
iW. 

7:00 p.m. & 10:00 p.m. -Movie, "Hon­
ne•L...:.....:....::....:::::..::::::::.::::::.=..::::...:=-~:....._~----~ 

duras: Seeds of a Revolution" Sponsored by 1,\d.' "You need to get out. dear." 
iOLA. CSC IW!. 124 FREE
Snake dreams 


35 Card game 50 Was con· 


The Daily Crossword 

36 Grain cerned beard 51 Clerical 
ACROSS 29 Nautical 63 Nightshade 9 Hotel garment1 Mild cheese ropes 65 Brain employee 39 Oriental 
52 Farm ma­
5 Fledgling's tissue 10 Bay window money chinery man home 33 Afr. ante· 66 Rainbow 40 Barley 54 Feel lope 11 Rodeo appendage 9 Philippine 37 Joining 67 Strong equipment 43 Town crier 55 Blanket 
knife words 68 Elysium 12 Aquatic 45 Dilute shawl 13 White 69 "-smile mammal 56 Remain poplar 38 Examines be your ..." 13 Arab 47 Desert 59 Gash 
14 Play the with curl· 70 Virginia garments rodent 60 Noted coquette osity willow 17 Underwrite 49 Use a lioness 15 QEDword 41 Line 23 Passed rink 64 551 42 Stinging 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:
16 Campanolo­remarks DOWN 25 Composite
gist 44 Process of 1 Ger. presi· picture 18 Cant oxygenating dent 27 Dutch 19 Comic 2 Gr. letter commune 
Johnson 46 Brain scan 3 Ragweed 29 Ad­20 Pries 48 Close reaction 49 Told off 4 Malde-30 Actress
21 -majesty 
53 Earthquake 5 Tabu Rehan22 Looks phenomena 6 Scrambled 31 Neither'sfixedly 57 A Marx things partner24 Earthquake 32 Ladyof26 Stlckum 

58 Adjust 7 Winter Spain: abbr. 61 Straight phenomenon 28 Marsupial, 62 "My Name 8 More 34 Onassis, 
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc.
for short Is-" concise familiarly 
3/6/84
All Rights Reserved 

What does the Student Union Recor.W.Store have for .me? 
• Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price 
Any record or tape may be ordered--takes 4-5 days NO EXTRA COST 
Blank tapes: TDKSA 90's 1--SJ-.25 TDKSA60's -i$:1~~~ 1--$2.50 

Maxell UDXL ll's 2 pk--$7.00 1--$3.75 
• Postage Stamps 

' 


Tuesday_,_ March 6, 1984 -page 8


S~orts 

Fencers steal Great 
Lakes Championship 
...•I 
t
w r " 
'0 

By MICHAEL J. CHMIEL highly ranked John Edwards who 
Sports Writer was unable to participate in the tournament due to the death of his 
., 
Saturday, the Notre Dame fenc­father on Thursday. Consoli was ing team snapped a string of six 10-4 for the day. consecutive Great Lake Champion­"Our team was working up to a ships for highly touted Wayne State fever pitch and I felt pretty good, 

~· by taking first at the 1984 classic at but then I got the call from John 
,, 

theACC. (Edwards). I knew that our i The Irish, who got off to an ex­chances would be diminished just
,, 

cellent start by having eight of their because of the quality of John as a twelve entries in the tournament fencer," said DeCicco advance to final round action, cap­"However, I didn't see an emo­tured the overall team title with 157 tional let down, and it's to the 
.~· points. Wayne State came in second credit of the rest of the team 
-with 151 points and Cleveland State because they felt as if they had to finished third with a total of 93 give a little more and they did." points. In the foil, the Irish also advanc­
• t:c ... ­

The Irish also gained two ed three finalists including automatic berths in the 1984 sophomore Mike VanderVeldon NCAA Championships (March 20-who took second place. 24 at Princeton) and qualified their VanderVelden at 15-3 was bettered 
The Observer /Paul Cifarelli 
remaining ten fencers for six berths by Stephen Kogler of Wayne State The Notre Dame fencing team captured the Great to qualify several fencers for the NCAA National in each weapon to be decided at who finished first with a mark of Lakes Championship over the weekend. The Irish Championship later this month. See the story at right Northwestern the next day. 16-2. Freshman Charles Higgs­stole the crown from arch-rival Wayne State. In the for more details. "I can't believe the performance Coulthard took fourth for the Irish process of winning the tournament, the Irish were able they (the Irish) gave." commented with a 14-4 record while senior cap­Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. tain Chris Grady went 12-6 anchor­"They really cleaned clock." ing the squad's showing with a solid
Graduating senior 
In the overall men's competition fifth place finish in the 25-man on Saturday, the Irish took first competition. with Wayne State and Cleveland Epeeist Andy Quroni, Notre 
State coming in second and third, Dame's sole finalist in the epee, respectively. captured second place in his 


Bonadio scores points in life 

By ED DOMANSKY age. "My next-door neighbors had Sports Writer an ice rink, so I tried it when I was five," he says. 
It is not too often that Tony His days in organized hockey Bonadio is seen dancing around in began one year later when his celebration after scoring a goal. father saw an ad about hockey try­Most commonly he is seen battling outs in the local newspaper and with opposing players in front of asked his son if he wanted to play. the Notre Dame net or in one of the "I guess it was the region of the defensive corners. country that got me started," says 
But despite a somewhat the Port Huron, Mich. native. camouflaged public image, over his "We're right of the border of Sar­four years as a member of the Irish nia, Ontario and hockey is really defensive corps, Bonadio had earn­big there. Ever since then, I've ed the respect of both his coach and played hockey in the summer and his teammates. winter." 
''Tony has really impressed me Bonadio's first game experience over the years," says Notre Dame in the Port Huron Minor Hockey head coach Lefty Smith. "He came Association is one he'll never in completely unannounced and at forget. first looked to be too small to play "When our goalie didn't show college hockey. He plays with so up, I had to play goal," he recalls much heart that he's not afraid of with a smile. "Nothing went right. anything. fhe pads were way too big and they 
"He is not an offensive threat, kept falling off. I stopped about 30 just a good defensive defenseman. shots and we still lost. I was crying He's pretty quiet, but when he because I thought i( was my fault. talks, I think everyone takes notice My grandma and everybody was of him." trying to console me." 
Just like many other players, While playing on the Pee Wee Bonadio started skating at an early level, Bonadio's reams twice made 

Sluby, Dolan win big at basketball banquet 
There was no crying over spilt shooting), joking that the big milk. A somewhat disappointing redhead had gotten injured earlier season was cast into a positive this season just so that he could col­light. A bright future was forecast. lect the free throw shooting award. And so it was last night at the an­nual basketball banquet as senior ioe Howard entertained the captain Tom Sluby and sophomore crowd with his wit in accepting the Jim Dolan cleaned up on the award as Most Inspirational awards. Player. The one known as "Small 
Sluby was the recipient of three Wonder" told the audience he was awards, including two of the most uncertain what his role would be on important of the night. Besides be­the team when he joined it in early ing honored with the MVP plaque January. He good naturedly joked from the Notre Dame National that at first he thought he might Monogram Club, Sluby also receiv­play the same reserve role of Casey ed the clutch Player of the Year Newell. Award and the Captain's Award. Newell, incidentally, was 
Meanwhile, Dolan also picked honored by the Notre Dame Club up three pieces of hardware. He of St. Joseph Valley with the shyly accepted honors as Best Student-Athlete Award. Defensive Player, Assist Leader, The general tone of the banquet and the Rebounding Award. was an upbeat one. 
Fellow sophomore Ken Barlow "They've never given up," said was awarded as Most Accurate Irish coach Digger Phelps of this Shooter and Most Improved year's team. "We're close to being Player. good again. Our day will come." 
Dan Duff presented Tim Kemp­No captain or captains for next ton with the Fr. Tom Brennan year's team were named at the ban­Award (for best free show quet. 
it to the finals of a major tourna­The men were led by an im­weapon. He was just edged out of ment. His team finished second in pressive showing for the Irish sabre first by highly regarded Ettore the State Tournament and took squad. Junior captain Mike Janis Bianchi (14-l) of Wayne State who another second-place trophy in the captured first place in the sabre was defeated by Quaroni earlier in Silver Stick Tournament. with a perfect day as he was the final round. The junior captain 
"I didn't know what it was, but undefeated in fifteen bouts. He of the Irish epee squad was 11-3 for everytime we'd make it to the also won an automatic berth in the the tournament. Sophomore Brian finals, we'd lose," says the 5-9, 170-NCAA tourney with his champion­St. Clair and freshman John pound economics major. "We just ship. Haugh were able to finish at a 
couldn't win that last one." Coming in second to Janis was respectable seventh and twelfth. 
While attending Port Huron world champion Giovanni Giorotto "In the foil, we were Northern High School, Bonadio of Wayne State. The heavily outstanding," said DeCicco. elected not to play hockey for the favored Italian native became "Everybody had an input to the school. Instead he chose to play on frustrated in the final round-robin success that we enjoyed." the Midget level for a team based in round as he lost two of his five "The two men who contributed Detroit. "It was a good team," he bouts to go 12-2 on the day. Giorot­beyond my greatest expectations says "but driving 140 miles round­to lost to Janis and to Irish were Tony Consoli and Chris trip all the time got kind of sophomore Don Johnson by iden­Grady, Chris Grady fenced monotonous." tical scores of 5-4. Johnson, who out of his mind and 
During his junior and senior was 9-5 for the tournament, took was fantastic just as the rest of our years, Bonadio played Junior B fourth in the sabre while last fencers were." hockey for a team from Sarnia. "It minute substitute Tony Consoli The Notre Dame women's fenc­
finished third for Notre Dame. 
see TONY, page 6 Consoli, a sophomore, replaced see FENCERS, page 6 

Bookstore Basketball Returns 
Well, folks, we're back. It's that time of the year again -when Spring arrives and a young man's thoughts turn to Bookstore Basketball. Jeff Blumb 
This Saturday, March 10, from 2-4:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy, we will be holding Bookstore Commissioner registration for Bookstore XIII. Please enter through thebigdoorsfacingthequad. Tourney Talk 
Some have suggested that we just call this year's iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-.::=:::;;
.. tournament "Bookstore," feeling anything with a 13 by it is bad omen. But, we'll take our chances that this stead of from the fifth round on as in years past. It is year's extravaganza will run as smoothly as those of the hope of the tournament staff that, by having the the past and use the XIII name. referees for an extra round of play, much of the rough play and flagrant fouling that went on last year during Let me introduce myself. My name is Jeff Blumb the fourth round can be eliminated. and I will be the commissioner of this year's tourna­ment. I have assembled what is a very competent and We must also mention a few of the rules. No one reliable staff to assist me in the running of the tourna­can play for more than one team. We stress this every ment. year, but invariably, some people don't take us Gus Herbert and Pete Pranica will be~.. Associate seriously and we end up disqualifying the second team Commissioners on the North and ~ Quads, that the individual plays for. Teams who make it past respectively. Cathy Chopp and Marc Ramirez will be the first round are free to use players other than the my Assistant Commissioners, on North and South original five who played for them, though, just as Quads, also. Suzanne La Croix will be Special Assis­long as none of the new team members have played tant to the Commissioner, the "Bookstore Goddess" for any other team. and veteran of the tournament that she is. Eligibility for the tournament extends to all Not to leave the Commissioner Emeritus Dave graduate and undergraduate Notre Dame-Saint Dziedzic out of all this. Dave's knowledge and Mary's men, women, faculty, and staff. The term assistance in running the tournament will be in­"staff" includes any person who works for Notre valuable. Dame-Saint Mary's; i.e. maintenance workers, dining But back to the business at hand. I need to say a bit hall staff, and the like. The only stipulation as far as more about the tournament itself. The registration fee students go is that the student be currently enrolled to this year will be five dollars, as opposed to the four be eligible. No alumni or future ND-SMC students are dollar charge of last year. In raising the fee, we will be allowed. adding referees for another round of action, using see BOOKSTORE, page 6 them from the fourth round on (at 64 trams left}, in­






