
Dance studio -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 33 tht· indqwndt·nt .,llllkllt nt·w,papn 'lT\ ing 1101n dame and 'aint mary·, MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1984 

These fans walk by the Memorial Library's reflecting pool in the rain Saturday night after leaving tbe Notre Dame-Miamifootball game early 

SMC foreign studies students must combat shock upon return to U.S. 
ByJIM MONTGOMERY 
News Staff 
Culture shock is a common expe­
rience for students returnlng from 
Foreign Studies programs. 
Re-adjusting to life on a relatively confined campus, stricter academic requirements and the difficulty of relating experiences to old friends are some of the problems a student faces when returning from abroad. Generally, the students re-adjust after a short time, but their experi­ences always stay with them. 
For many students, the biggest shock Is the Initial return to the United States. One's family provides a partial cushion for this fi,rst shock. "This first debriefing period with the family Is very Important," sald Mic­hel Marcy, director of the Angers, France program. 
After generally adjusting to Amer­Ican culture, the student must read­just to life within the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community in particular. Students have to try to get used to studying more since aca­demic requirements are stricter In the United States. In France, there Is just one final exam, instead of sys­tematic testing throughout the se­mester. "This allowed the students mort· time to travel," according to Marcy. 

Travel Is one of the most impor­tant aspects of foreign studies pro­grams, he added. 
The relative nearness ofcountries in Europt· and an efficient transpor­tation system afford students tre­mendous opportunities for travel. "We got into the hahit ofhopping on a train every weekend for Paris or another t·ountry," commented Usa Meyer, a junior who studied in An~o~ers last year. "Within three or four hours you were totally im­mersed in another t·ulture. Now I'm thinking of how remote Notre Dame·Saint Mary's is." she said. 
In addition to physical restraints, returning students say that the social armosphc:re hack on campus seems t·spt•cially restrictive. The new alco­hol policy widens the South Bend-
European gap. In Europe there is no 
drinking age, a sharp contast with 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's where 
parties with alcohol are not allowed 
In dormitories. 
"For me, that was the hardest ad­
justment," said john Delaney, a 
member of the Ireland program. 
Despite the differences in 
academics and social life, most stu­
dents adjust fairly quickly. Academi­
cally, students concentrate on their 
goals. "They know that they have to 
get back and focus on their majors," 
said to Dr. Peter Checca, counselor 
for the Rome program. "No one has 
come to me with a problem this 
year," he said. 
Support from other members of 
the foreign studies group seems to 
be the most effective method for 
readjustment to campus life. "Being 
In that situation (a group of 
Americans In another country), you 
tend to forge pretty close 
friendships," said Delaney. 
Generally, foreign studies groups 
maintain their freindships after re­
turnlng to the campus. Students can 
reminisce about their recent experi­
ence with others who have also 
been overseas. 
Those who have been abroad can 
be frustrated upon returning to 
campus because of an inability to 
communicate their experience. "I 
wanted to be sharing this with other 
people, but they really didn't under­
stand," said Bridget Foley, a senior 
who spent a year in France. 
But even with the difficulty, it is 
good for the returning students to 
share experience with underclas­
smen and encourage them to seek 
new experiences that the program 
offers, said Marcy. He added, "It is 
good for the juniors to talk about 
their experience." 
Several organized events have been held to help any foreign stu­dents who have difficulty re­adjusting to life on campus. In addition to meetings for each group held by the individual programs and Career and Counseling, an Oktober­fest was held this year for Foreign S'tudies students at Erskine Golf 
Club. "A large group ofpeople were gathered who could share common Interests and experiences," said Meyer, who described Oktoberfest as "the epitome ofa good time." 
These types of experiences are the best ways to adjust, according to those interviewed. According to Meyer, the group Is "a marvelous counseling service." 
Owner's signature required for party 

By SCOTT BEARBY 
News Staff 
Planning for an off-campus event has become more complex of a as a result ofa directive issued by the Of­fice of Student Affairs. This directive details a procedure in which residence halls and social groups must obtain, in writing, an agree­ment from the ownermanager ofthe establishment stating he will take re­sponsibility for any mishap which may take place on the premises. 
Under the agreement the owner/manager assumes responsi­bility for the supplying, providing, distributing and selling of any alco­hol present at the event; for provid­ing bartenders at the event; and for checking identification in order to monltor the consumption ofalcohol in compliance with the Indiana Cri­minal Law. The student organlzation or residence hall is not to be respon­sible for the pre-sale oftickets which are used for the purpose of buying alcoholic beverages. 
When questioned by the Hall Presidents' Council two weeks ago, Associate Vice President for Residence Life Dr. John Goldrick Implied that the policy should not interfere greatly with off-campus events. He said he "couldn't see why they (owners) wouldn't agree (to taking responsibility)." 
Some disagree on this point, In­cluding Frank Laughlin, co-social commissioner of Holy Cross Hall. According to Laughlin, it will be "a lot tougher to hold off-campus events," because the 
owner/manager must agree to take 
responsibility. Residence halls seem 
to be taking a cautious attitude 
toward off-campus events. 
"With all the inconsistencies 
we're confused as to what's accep­
table," said Alumni Hall president 
Carl Whelahan. Alumni commis­
sioners are compensating by plan­
ning more in-hall events, as are most 
other halls. 

Although there have been some off-campus activities, others have been cancelled. Lewis Hall can­celled a cruise, because there was "not enough Interest," because alco­hol could not be t;erved to those un· der the legal drinking age, said Lewis President Debbie Doherty. 
Despite the new policy, hall com­missioners have not abandoned the idea ofoff-campus events. "The rules make It a bit more difficult, but we still intend to have off-campus activi­ties, rules or no rules," said Fisher Hall Social Commissioner. Most hall commissioners still are looking off­campus for their formals. 
Two locations of Notre Dame events expressed different views on the effect the policy will have on them. Even before the policy was released Knollwood Country Club did not serve alcohol without proper identification; therefore, the new policy should pose "no prob­lem," said Knollwood Food/ Bever­age Manager Cindy Chapla. 

On the other hand, Erskine Country Club Manager jerry Shearer said the policy "would have an effect on them," although he did not know to what extent. 
Charles Manatt visits South Bend to give Mike Barnes endorsement 

By MIRIAM HILL 
StaffReporter 
Democratic National Chairman Charles Manatt appeared at Demo­cratic headquarters in South Bend Friday to endorse congressional candidate Mike Barnes. Barnes is runnJngfor the House ofRepresen­tatives in the third district. 
"The candidacy of Mike Barnes is an important statement, because he is a very well-qualified and ex­perienced public servant, the type ofyoung person who we like to see in service in Congress," Manatt said. 
Manatt criticized current repre­sentativeJohn Hiler for refusing to participate in the Midwest North­east Caucus, a group in the House of Representatives dedicated to promoting the economic develop­ment of the midwestern, middle 
APFlk Phoco
Atlantic and northeastern states. 

Charles Manatt, Chairman of tbe Democratic National Commit­
In addition to endorsing Mike 

tee, seen here at a 1982 press conference In Washington, D.C. visited
Barnes, Manatt encouraged voters 

South BendFriday to endorse Mike Barnes for congress. 

vast command of the issues, of the substance of this campaign, show his understanding of a plan both in terms of assaulting the deficit, a.~ well as the whole wide range of educational issues, environmental issues, social justice, and equal op­portunlty for everyone." 
to watch the debates between Wal­ter Mondale and Ronald Reagan. Mondalc six or seven points be­By watching the debates, Manatt hind the president in states neces­declared, "people will start think­sary to win the electoral vote, ing about issues of the economy, Manatt articulated his view that jobs, deficits, and the presence of the debates could turn the tide of unfairness in the present adminis­the campaign In favor of Mondale. tration." Manatt said that in the debate 
Citing recent polls which show Mondale "will have to show his 
The Observer Monday, October 8, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
Too many colleges are more interested in 
recruiting students than in counseling them properly, concluded 
the National College Counseling Project. Poor students are the most 
li~ely to receive bad advice, either from colleges themselves or in 
their high schools. The project blamed bad counseling for the fact 
that fewer than half of all students graduate from the college they 
first attend as freshmen. -The Obseroer 
A reporter and photographer for the Fort 
Myers News-Press were detained and given trespass warnings after they tried to see U.S. labor Secretary Raymond Donovan at a private party. Reporter Frances D. Williams and photographer Thomas A. Price said they went Friday night to a resort on Captiva Island after receiving a tip from a person who claimed to work at the resort. Ms. Williams said she and Price approached two men they thought were Donovan and Ronald Schiavone, both indicted last week on fraud charges in connection with construction work by a company where Donovan formerly was an officer. But when they identified them­selves as journalists, they were surrounded by resort guards and detained, she said. -AP 
A Vietnam veteran convicted of mur­
der.and attempted murder in Oakland was given a life prison sen­tence after a jury foreman used evidence ofhis own war experiences to argue against the death penalty, a prosecutor said. Eugene Del­gado, 34, ofHayward, was sentenced Friday in the May 1982 murder of Victoria Mercado, 31, of Oakland, and her roommate, Patricia Mannis, 33. Three jurors initially favored the death penalty for Del­gado, who contended he was the victim of post-traumatic stress syndrome, but jury foreman William Sinacori brought in his own war memorabilia to dissuade them, said Deputy District Attorney Ken­neth Burr. -AP 
Blinko the clown promises a "very happy" adminis­tration ifhe's elected president -he plans to draft a Cabinet full of comedians. However, Blinko, a veteran clown at the Circus Circus resort in Las Vegas whose real name is Ernie Burch, isn't just joking around when he says he wants to run the country. His campaign platform also calls for worldwide nuclear disarmament anll an end to hunger among children. "I think clowns can get very serious at times," he said. "I am very serious on the issues." Blinko claims to have more foreign policy experience than Bozo, a Los Angeles clown also pursuing the presidency. He says he has traveled to Russia and Japan as a goodwill ambassador for the State Department and has met and performed for leaders of the Kremlin. -AP 
Of Interest ·--o 
St. Joseph Lake Beach is now closed for the tall season, according to Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame security. There will no longer be lifeguards on duty at the beach. -The Obseroer 

VVeather : 
Probably more rain today 
with cloudy and mild skies. There will be a 60 percent chance of precipitation with the highs in the mid to upper 60s. Tonight, a 30 percent chance ofrain with lows in the upper 50s. A continued 20 percent chance of rain tomorrow with highs around 70. Don't pack 

away your umbrella yet. -The Obseroer 
lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i~ published Monday through Friday and 
Production Consultant .................... Steve on home football Saturdays, except 
Design Editor ............................... Troy Illig during exam and vacation periods. lbe 
Design Assistant ....... Kathleen Nicholson Observer is published by the students of 
Typesetters .................. Cahtyann Reynolds the University ofNotre Dame and Saint 
News Edltor.............................)ohnMennell Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
Copy Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton/ Dan purchased for 530 per year ( 520 per se­
McCullough mester) by writing lbe ObseM"er, P.O. 
Sports Copy Edltor......................jeffBlunb Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
, 
VIewpoint Layout................... Dave Grote lbe Observer is a member of lbe 
ND Day Editor .................. Kathleen Doyle Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Cubs' bandwagon unloads 
That gust of wind you felt last night was not some Dick Addis concoction. It used to be in the Chicago Cub balloon, which a bunch of laid-back ballplayers from 




Mark Worscheh 
San Diego popped last night. 

Managing Editor
And what a breeze it was, too, for millions of Chicagoans had inflated that balloon to blimp size. Everything coming out of Chicago during the last few Inside Mond weeks has had Cubs written all over it, be it radio reports or bumper stickers. In place of the traditional "Wash Me," someone had rubbed "Go Cubs" in the dirt if the Cubs made it to the Series, or worse, won? For of a van I saw on U.S. 3L Cub fans, it seemed, were many, it must have been a frightening thought. breeding like rabbits. I must admit I had begun to prepare myselffor a Cubs 
A friend told me his mother had even become a pennant, possibly even a Cubs championship. The last spirited Cubs fan --even though he has been a life-long one happened in 1908. I'd be 97 before the next one hit. Sox fan. White Sox? White socks? Oh yes, son, they're in Missing this one would be akin to missing the parting of the top dresser drawer. "Ryne Sandberg was ahead of the Red Sea. I saved a few clippings, tried to watch the me in the will. Now I'm back in the family plan," he said games. This would be something to tell the after the game last night. grandchildren. "Really, Grandad, the Cubs weren't al­
But nowhere were rides on the bandwagon ride so ways doormats?" I was preparing the speech already. abundant as in the media. · So naturally I felt disap-The Chicago Tribune, pointed when the Cubs owned by the same holding company that owns the 
E===~~~~~3~~§§~~ botched a two-games-to­
; nothing lead in the playoffs, Cubs franchise, treated the allowing San Diego to do
J 

what no other National in the spring. Columnists /1j team as mere afterthoughts ;; 
League team has done who laughingly dismissed 
before. Aside from .the his­even the possibility ofa Cub 
torical significance, watch­championship in April had 
ing the bandwagon go by the champaign in the 
was actually fun at times. refrigerator, as if their 
Seeing the third-largest city predictions of a traditional 
in the U.S. go nuts over nine lowly finish for the Cubs 
guys, one of whom somehow inspired the team 
resembled a pengiun, has during the season. 
entertainment value. Last week, a hefty 74-page 
But the Padres unloaded special Playoff Guide 
the bandwagon yesterday. plopped out of my Tribune. To those who rode with the Was anyone as tired as I was team, my condolences. You 
!0-'f-'tH

ofstories of the 1945 World have a right to second-guess Series? Yet, the pundits told us more. I thought the your way to death. To those who drove the wagon and Olympic advertising spirit had gracefully passed on un­plan to stay with the Cubs when they lose 100 games til I saw United Airlines suggesting in the guide that it next year, my support and sympathy. And to those who was the official airline ofthe Cubs. But the best ofall was boarded the bandwagon last week on Rush Street, put the Chicago Sun-Times' page one headline on Sept. 25 away your K-Mart helmet and be grateful for a week of when the Cubs clinched the division title: "AT LAST" in fun. letters two and a halftimes the size ofthat tabloids usual garish standards and seven times the size one would find atop the tradi'tional Obseroer. 
Bandwagons follow in the trail ofany winner, and the 
I
AMERICAN
Cubs were certainly no exception. Tolerating the delirium ofa roommate who happened to be a veteran 
~CANCER 
Cubs fan would require patience, but it was possible. It 


'SOCIETY® 
was their moment, even if it meant sacrificing wall space for Cub pariphernalia. 
How you live 
But dealing with all those who ran to Sears to buy Cubs shirts, shoes and underwear repulsed many who 


may save your life. 
otherwise would have sided with the team. If Chris Roommate is obnoxious now, how would he or she act 

• • Free Entertainment • • 
Campus Entertainment Hosts Amatuer Nig·ht at 
*.. Senior Bar, October 9 at 8:00pm 
c 

G) c (all ages welcome) 
..

i.. Support Your Dorm's Funniest Person: ., ;:;· * 
0 CD
..... Greg Masiello ............................Holy Cross 
G) John Cerebino ............................. Keenan "' 
* 

() Tom Stella ................... _. _.... Off Campus z
·c; 0
Bernie Pelligrino ..... _....................... Dillion s::. Ken Munro .. _...... _....... _.............. Dillion -•0 Kalin Koch ... _.... _..... __ .... _....... _... Farley .0 
G) Peter Abowd ... _.... __ ...... _.............St. Ed.'s 
=a
() 

Moose Kosco ................. _............. Sorin CD
c 

Kevin Flynn ...... _..... _... _. _........... Morrissey .0 
,·-G) 

Kevin Corbley .... _.................. Carroll c Ruth Kaiser...................... _.......... P.E. 
-· 

::I i
Dave Saltzman ... _........ _............ _.... Fisher 
a.
cr 

Emcees: Michael McGarrity and Nancy RQhman 
*
* 

Winner goes on to open THE BUDWEISER COMEDY SHOP on Oct.l7 in Olaughlin Aud. at 8:00pm. 
Band • Dancing• Featuring I.C. Hoff· The New Mark Allen Band 


The Observer Monday, October 8, 1984 -page 3 


United States Solicitor General speaks to Notre Dame law students 

By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
StaffReporter 
The family Is the cornerstone of society and should be protected by the Constitution, said United States Solicitor General Rex Lee in a speech Friday at Notre Dame. 
Lee's lecture, which was sponsored by the Thomas ). White Center on Law & Government, was introduced by Thomas Carney, chairman of the University's Board of Trustees, and was titled, "The Fundamentability ofthe Famlly." 
Speaking before more than 200 students and faculty at the Law
Sorin Talent 
School, Lee began his program by
Crowds gathered outside ofSorln Hall Saturday afternoon to watch 
explaining that the thoughts in his
Sorln's annual talent show. Tbe show was fortunate enough to end 
lecture were about ideas that were
before Saturday's ratn washed over the campus. 
not fully developed at the moment. 



Regina dance studio opening soon 
By KATIIRYN HUMM 
News Staff 
The new dance studio located in the basement of Regina Hall is al­most complete, and already students and faculty arc using it, according to Colleen Quinn, professor ofdance at Saint Mary's College. 
'Jbe dance studio was trans­formed from an empty space during the summer and first semester of 19tH. Improvements include a new wooden floor and better lighting equipment. New mirrors and bars will be added before Christmas. 
Before the studio was built, classes were conducted on the stage of O'Laughlin Auditorium or In the 
vm­
PUTYOUR EXPERIENCE TO WORK FORY0U. 
If you're a veteran, you have something very valuable-experi~ ence. The' Army is welcoming back experienced vets for possible leadership positions. 
You've already had the train~ ing. Now put what you've learned back to work for you. Your skills and knowledge could be very useful in today's Army. Talk to your Army Recruiter about your past­ard future in the Army. 
Attention all EngineeringStudent.: 

You are Invited to a 
SOHIO Reception Tuesday, October 9th 7-9p• 
at the SeniorAla•nl Club 
basement of Washington Hall. 
Quinn said this was an inconveni­ence for both professors and stu­dents because scenery for productions often was being built on the stage. The dancers were forced to dance around the machin­ery, and often classes were can­celled. 
She also said that because of the novelty of the studio, only sched· uled classes taught by the professors and special classes taught by the stu­dents are being conducted in the studio. Students from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are encour­aged to participate in these classes. 
On Monday afternoons from 2:20 to 3: 10, a free, beginning ballet class is scheduled. The class runs from Oct. 1 through Nov. 5. Francine Eck­rich and Paula Ballantine will teach the class as a requirement for their Pedagogy class, one designed to teach dancers how to teach dance. 

On Thursday evenings at 7:30, a free jazz, modern, and tap class is being offered in the Regina Studio. 
On Nov. 16 and 17, a student dance concert will be presented in the studio. This will be the first student-directed, choreographed, and performed production per­formed at the studio. 
"The studio is much nicer, we really enjoy having our own space," Quinn said. 
The Independent student newspaper serving 
Notre Dame and SOint MQry's Is accepting applications tor the following position: 


Production Manag~ 
Motivated person needed to coordinate and direct layout and design of The Observer. The production manager Is In charge of a staff of design editors and layout personnel who produce the newspaper at night. Duties Include scheduling, establishing guidelines and training. It Is a salaried position. 
Applications are due on Wednesday, October 10. 
For Information and an application, call Mark Worscheh at 239-5303. 
The Observer, 3rd Floor LaFortune Student Center 
THE lAW CARAVAN Wed., October lOth 12-4pm. Stepan Center 
Over 40 nationally recognized Law schools 
and many more. 
• • • Don't miss this chance to rub elbows with the BEST. 

His ideas, he explained, were not to 
be taken in connection with his offi­
cial responsibilities. 

On a less serious note, Lee advised law school students that In discern­ing between the theoretical and the practical, in practical dealings he suggested, "You do not ask a ques­tion unless you know what the an­swer is (and) you never ask a question that gives your opponent an edge." 
"I regard the family as society's basic building block," said Lee. "I'm sure that part of my convictions rest with my own experience, the norms of our culture, and the smaller sub­culture in which I was raised." 
"What kinds ofprotections do the laws provide the famlly?" asked Lee in referring to questions being raised about the need for a definition for the fundamental rights of this so­cial unit. 
"The deal with the right ofprivacy is older than the Bill of Rights, is older than our political parties, and is older than our school system." 
In Supreme Court cases through­out history, the judiciary system has been called upon to form countless opinions in regards to the family. In Stanley vs. Illinois, the courts, for ex­ample, recognized "the importance ofthe family." According to Lee, lan­guage regarding the family has ap­peared in many majority opinions of the courts. All of this, as the solicitor general noted, lends evidence to the important role ofthe family in Amer­ican life. 
"The right of privacy and the at­tended auxiliary rights, whether they are rooted to the family or something else, are fundamental," said Lee on the related topic oT privacy. 
Most important, said Lee, is the process by which government proceeds in making decisions about our rights and in making laws. He believes that it is essential to recog­nize some human interests as more important than others In the same way as certain rights are given more attention than others. Making deci­sions is the problem. The legislative branch of government has the power to make choices between competing interests but the judicial branch has the power to revkw and 
, upset these decisions. 
"Where you have an area where there is no written law --where the constitution doesn't tell us if there is a right for the family --which (branch) should be the residual law maker?" asked Lee. "Ultimately these are policy choices and that's what we elect legislators for. 
"It (a fundamental rights doctrine) really amounts to nothing more or less than a rearrangement of the lawmaking process between the legislative and judicial branches of the government." 
After giving his speech, the solicitor general opened his pro­gram up for questions from the audi­ence. In addressing these, Lee reaffirmed his firm support for the family in Jhe face of a dwindling spirit for it as the basic building block in society. 
"The day the family is unconstitu­tional is the day you have revolu­tion," said Lee. "I think the family is going to prevail because It's a good idea. Things are going our way--bet­ter than they were ten years ago ... we'll never lose." 
Lee, who earned degrees from Brigham Young and the University of Chicago was named as the Solicitor General in 1 981. 
.... ... 
~ 1 a 
I 
~ • -­- -~­.. Mo'buv aound and light equipment, complete outfit, lor oalo. Excollontlncome doing dancoa on weokonda. Perfectamall buolneu opportunity. 19000, NEGO,Includn all PA fl"ar,.llghta. controla, hull" record library, and prlmo condiHon 78 Ford van. Send lor oqulpmontllatat c/o 22 W011 High Strnt, ~':avllle,IN.~I58. ... ..-- 4I 1  

TYPING  
Term Papers  
Resumes  
Letters  
Manuscripts  
Word Processing  
Call Chris at:  
234-8997  

AIS 
ShiPJti•gand Packa....g 
3617 Ml•hawaka Ave .Miehawaka at Logan 
We •hlp Exclu•lvely 


·.. ._;.,L.\.t.".. .. -.. ~~·-.. ~ •••• ': ••· .•.• ',,"',••••.• : •.••• -• •~,·· .. ··~ ~· ,-,-.~.~ ••.•• ,. ...... ~ ........... 
-•·-.. ,. ....... '"" .. .,. ..... • • • I 

The Observer 

Monday, October 8, 1984 -page 4 



President Reagan meets Mondale 
ALANON


in Louisville for first 1984 debate 
Associated Press 
Ronald Reagan and Walter F. Mondale collided over economics, leadership and the politics of reli­gion in their first campaign debate last night, with the president ridicul­ing Mondale's deficit reduction plan and the aggresive challenger charg­ing that Reagan's budget estimates have been "billions and billions of dollars off." 
Mondale, far behind in the polls and hoping to rebound, unveiled an aggressive debating style from the start. 
"I respect the President and I respect the presidency and I think he knows that," Mondale said of Reagan as he discussed the presi­dent's claim that the budget can be balanced without a tax hike. But he added that deficit estimatesfrom the administration have been off"by bil­lions and billions of dollars." Mondale belittled Reagan's responses about how his administra­tion has shephered the economy and domestic programs. 
"I guess I'm reminded a little bit of 
what Will Rogers once said about 

Students feel responsibility is not theirs 
Associated Press 
WEST I.AFAYElTE, Ind. -One of 
seven Purdue University student­
hosts ofthe party that erupted into a 
brawl between students and police 
Saturday morning said he feels they 
are not responsible for the distur­
bance. 
Police arrested 21 people after ap­
proximately 1,000 people poured 
into the streets and harassed 
motorists, broke signs and threw 
beer bottles. 
Rick Wilson, 20, said he feels that 
he and the other hosts were made 
out to be the bad guys in the inci­
dent. He and six others in his house 
and the one next door were arrested 
on charges th::t included suspicion 
of maintaining a common nuisance, 
disorderly conduct and possession 
ofstolen property. 
Some ofthe residents and visitors, 
including Thomas Adams, a Univer­
sity of Kentucky student from 
Prospect, Ky., were awakenedin bed 
and arrested, residents said. 
"The whole block was partying," 
Wilson said. "If they (authorities) 
are against that, then they should ar­
rest the whole block." 
The hosts had advertised the party 
in the Purdue student newspaper. 
Wilson said Indiana Excise Police 
told him Thursday that they could 
not have the party in the backyard of 
one ofthe houses, as planned. 
"I think they thought we were 
going to sell the beer, but we were 
just giving it away for free," he said. 
Hosts asked visitors to bring their 
own mugs. 
"We didn't serve any beer bottles, and that's what was thrown at the police. We didn't have any of that. We don't think it was our fault. We didn't intend for any of that (beer throwing and vandalism) to hap­pen." 
Beer bottles broke the rear win­
dows of a West Lafayette Police car 
and an Indiana State Police car. The 
siren of another West Lafayette was 
broken. 
By 11 p.m., seven kegs of beer were empty, except for one keg the hosts had saved in the basement, Wilson said. 
"We tried to get the crowd to leave after the beer ran out, but a lot of them stayed. It was out of our hands," he said. 
Two West Lafayette Police units arrived and were hit with bottles. 

Hoover," Mondale said. "He said, prayer amendment to the Constitu­
Mondays ..... 6:30 pm 
'It's not what he doesn't know that tion. He said the Republican plat­
bothers me, it's what he knows for form calls for a "religious test" for sure but just ain't so." 
Supreme Court justices and referred Counseling & Psychological Services Center 
Reagan went into the debate a to the Rev. Jerry Falwell's statement 
Room 316 

solid favorite in the polls, and he that this rule will give the New Right struck a presidential pose. two justices. 
Does someone significant to you have a drinking
He told the television audience But Reagan said he had appointed estimated at 100 million viewers only one justice so far in his first problem? Does it affect you? Maybe we can help. 
that he had instructed his advisers to term -and used the opportunity to Call 239-5085 "never" raise political ramifications 
appoint Sandra Day O'Connor, the~~..~~..--~~.-~~..--~~..~~..--~~..~~~--~ of issues when they discuss them first woman ever named to the high­with him in the Oval Office. est court. 
The two men clashed over the The candidates clashed, as well on 
ForFall Break
role ofreligion and politics. · Social Security, with Reagan vowing The president responded to a that while "a president should never 
WASHINGTON D.C. BUS
question of how often he attended say never ... I will never stand for a church bysaying he has been a regu­reduction of the Social Security lar worshipper all his life. Now that benefits for the people that are now he is president, he said, he does not getting them." go out of security concerns for Mondale, who has others. Reagan favors just such cuts, said 
He did not answer the question that after the 1980 election, with about why he did not bring a mini­just such a promise on the record, ster into the White House, as then­Reagan proposed cuts of 25 percent 
President Nixon did. in some Social Security programs. Mondale attacked the Mondale said that while spending Sign-ups:Tues.,Oct.9th 2nd floor La Fortune 

Republicans and conservative religi-, 
cuts are needed, "I'm not going to $60 round-trip 
ous groups for their involvement in 
cut it out of Social Security and , ...................................................111111111111..111111
issues such as a proposal for a school Medicare and student assistance • 


The Observer Monday, October 8, 1984 -page S 

Basketball coach Richard "Digger" Phelps sat in Dillon Hall's dunktank Friday afternoon to help raise money for The March of Oimes. Th!' March ofOimesfundraising drive official~y begins today. 

Order 1 Large Pizza Get a pitcher of pop &ee 
10" OFF DINNERS for NO AND SMC students 
EXPIRES OCTOBER 31, 1984 
1636 N.lronwood Dr. 277 ·6155 
lllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIII~IIIIIIIIIII 



The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your Roommate Headquarters 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
ON THE CAMPUS 
October 8, Presentation and Reception October 9, 10, and 11, Interviews 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS RECRUITERS will be on campus in the Notre Dame Room of the Morris Inn on October 8, from 7 · 9 p.m. 
.. 
We are recruiting for Semi Conductor Sales, Marketing, Engineering, Design, and Manufac­turing. Plus Computer Programmers · Hardware and Software Design. Degree Requirements are EE, ME, CHEM E, COMPUTER E, COMPUTER SCIENCE, BS and MS and MBA with TECHNICAL UNDERGRAD. 
Come to the reception from 7 -9 p.m. Monday night to get aquainted, ask questions, and discuss general information. 
GO IRISH! 



Troublesome antennas may delay walk in space by man-woman team 

Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, fla. -Officials on Sunday debated whether to postpone the first space walk by a man-woman team to avoid the possi­bility of them being hit by two troublesome antennas in the shuttle Challenger's cargo bay. 
Astronauts Kathy Sullivan and David Leestma were to float out of the space shuttle cabin on Tuesday to test techniques for refueling satellites, but space agency spokes­men said they were certain the walk would be delayed until I I a.m. Thursday so the antenna work can be finished and the equipment locked out of the way. 
A new, but minor, problem on a flight already plagued by its share of difficulties developed Sunday when a "flash evaporator system" that helps cool the spacecraft shut off three times. The astronauts were in­structed to turn on a backup system. 
Meanwhile, National Aeronautics and Space Administration officials salvaged the main Earth-observation objective ofthe eight-day mission by reorienting the shuttle to aim a high-speed antenna at a satellite -a mane ver akin to moving a house to point its roof antenna toward a television tower. 

The antenna, needed to send sig­nals from a radar mapping device to the ground, had been searching the skies aimlessly and uncontrollably until Saturday, when Sally Ride and Sullivan pulled the plug on its motors. 
With the antenna fixed in place, commander Robert Crippen and pilot Jon McBride began moving Challenger in a search pattern worked out by experts on the ground. lbe signals hit a tracking satellite 22,000 (lliles above them on the second try, and the satellite then relayed the data to Earth. 
"We have excellent reception at that point," Mission Control's Ron McNair told Crippen. It took the vet­eran astronaut only a few minutes to fine-tune the signal by inching the spacecraft around. 
The astronauts had operated the radar device as the shuttle passed over the northern United States and Canada, southern South America, Hawaii, West Africa and Australia, 



130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 

277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 
1 

1  Monday  I  Wednesday  Sunday 
I  I  
I 1  16", 1 item  I I  16", 1 item  16", 1 item  
I $6.95 II I  $6.95  $6.95  
I  I  

I 
I 
and recorded the data on tape. 
Once the satellite link was made, astronauts were able to "dump" the taped data to the ground. Failure would have severely crippled the radar mapping project aimed at fin­ding oil spills, icebergs, lost cities and underground rivers. 
Taping the data on hoard Chal­lenger would have yielded only 140 minutes of information, a frat·tion of the 40 hours that were expected in 
normal operation. NASA now ex­pects to get 2 5 hours ofdata. 
"lbe second antenna problem in­volved the radar device's rectangular antenna, used to obtain the data. On Saturday, it refused to remain in a folded-down position when an attempt was made to stow it. Ride used the ship's 50-foot robot arm to nudge it into place, hut NASA doesn't want to chance having to do that again. 
Sullivan and Leestma on Sunday conducted a second test in which they sent hydrazine fuel from one tank in the cargo hay to another -a precursor of the day when astronauts will refuel satellites, vastly extending the satellites' lifetimt·. 

Peres in U.S. to discuss with drawl 
Associated Press 

.., 
JERUSALEM -Prime Minister 

1 
Shimon Peres, who on Sunday 

,1 
started a week-long visit to the United States, is expected to present 

I 
a plan for withdrawing Israeli occu­

~ 
pation troops from southern Lebanon. 
Before boarding a plane to New York early Sunday, Peres told reporters he would discuss ways of ending Israel's now 28-month-old occupation with President Reagan 
and other U.S. officials. 
"I am taking a plan for the withdrawal of the IDF (Israel Defense Forces) from Lebanon. I don't know ifit's a new plan, hut it's a plan," he said. 
Later Sunday. an Israeli Foreign Ministry official indicated that the plan centered on dividing the zone now occupied by Israel into two areas: one patrolled by United Na­tions forces an!-1 the other by the Israeli-backed militia known as the South Lebanon Army . 
Syria, the other foreign occupa­

~ 
tion power in Lebanon, ha.~ ruled out 

,
any role' for the 2,1 00-man militia, 

l ~ 
which Israel finances and trains. 
Syrian Foreign Minister Farou)( Sharaa said Friday in New York that his government would endorse a 
U.S. mediation effort aimed solely at 

j
removing Israeli forces from 

Lebanon. , 
Peres told reporters before leaving Israel that Sharaa's remark "deserves a closer look. It is an inter­esting move." 
Peres, who assumed leadership of a bipartisan government three weeks ago, said Israel "would look with favor on any U.S. pacifying role," but he said Lebanon and Syria 

, 
would have to agree to an American mediation role. 
lbe Foreign Ministry official, speaking on condition he wa.~ not identified, said the Syrian position "has some conditions that are unac­ceptable to us." 
He said Israel still insisted that 
the May 17, 1983, troop withdrawal

1 Call before 11 I Call before 11 Call before 9:30 I 
agreement between Israel andI I I Lebanon, but Lebanon unilaterallyI EXPIRES 10/8/8.4 Jl EXPIRES 10/10/BA EXPIRES 10/14/84 .JI canceled that pact last March under 
Syrian pressure. 
militiamen from the South Lebanon 1I Army play a role in security arrange­1 ments to protect Israel's northern I border from Arab guerrilla attacks. 

1 The United States helped mediate 1 
~ 
1 1 








View~_o_i_n_t________
Mo-nd-ay_,o_cto-be-rs_,1-98-4-p-ag-e6­
Living under the colonial rule of the U.S. 
Puerto Ricans living in the United States are often .asked the question: "Do you favor Puerto Rican independence?" When they an­swer in the affirmative, they are told that the 
Eduardo Velazquez 
guest column 
majorityofPuerto Ricans do not support inde­pendence. 
The sad reality of our culture is that it is portrayed as preferring to live under the colonial yoke of the United States. But what is seldom stated is that this condition is not the product offree choice; it is the mute acquies­cence of our people to decades of subjuga­tion. 

It is hard to convey to the American people what it means to live under the authority ofa foreign sovereign. Imagine yourselves pledg­ing allegiance to the Soviet Union and dying in its wars, or having to sing its national anthem alongside of yours, or being told by the Polit­buro wha~ you may or may not include in your Constitution. H you can conceptualize such a situation and substitute "Politburo" and "Soviet Union" with "Congress" and "the United States" you would know what it is like to be a Puerto Rican living on the island_ 
You may ask: "But why don't three and a half million people raise up in arms like the Algerians, the Kenyans, or the Americans?" My answer is because of the pervasive and sys­tematic assault on our cultural sense of self­worth by the lackeys ofImperialism. A people that has been told for years that they are economically, socially, and intellectually in­ferior to their northern neighbors cannot be expected to take to the streets and the bar­ricades. Why fight for a future you are not confident enough to face? The American people liv:ed under British rule for decades until they felt confident enough to bect~me masters oftheir own nation. . 
Mere allegations as to the colonial status of Puerto Rico, however, are not enough. I will supply the evidence. 
When I was a student in sixth grade my friends and I were reprimanded for wearing ·pins with the Puerto Rican flag on them. We were told by a teacher that it was a 


The political vi~w from 1988 
Suddenly, everyone-and especially Mario Cuomo -is talking not about 1984 but about 1988. Of course Ronald Reagan's bumbling comments on the Beirut embassy bombing may cost him, and the debates are still a wild card. But even if Walter Mondale shows him­self more intellectual than Reagan, the vote 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
has never turned on how bright Ronald Reagan is or isn't.

r ' 
It has turned on Reagan's actual record over

r 
four years, ofsomehow staying in charge of a

r 
complex America in a violent and volatile world. So he is likely to have another term to show his power to govern. 
After him comes the deluge of candidates, in both parties. They are already bidding for attention, a little indecently, since no one waits for the funeral rites, in the haste to fight over the inheritance. It is the continuous wel­ling up ofambition among the waitinghungry. 
Mario Cuomo is one of the hungry and in effect he has just declared himself a candidate for 1988. Despite his necessary bow to the thin chance that Mondale might still survive, he has served notice that if he goes for the presidency in I988 he will forego a second term as governor in 1986. 

He is giving himseff the two years to get ready, but like the rest he will need all four years between now and 1988. Nixon, McGovern, Carter, Reagan, Mondale -all of them mounted four-year campaigns. They have become de rigeur. 
A candidate doesn't just run for the presidency. He is consumed by it. Every waking moment, every dreaming fantasy, is obsessed with it. 
The model in Cuomo's mind is Franklin Roosevelt, who also used the NewYork gover­norship for his leap to power. He started his organizing early, using Louis Howe an·d Jim Farley to build the campaign infrastructure while he kept a lofty profile in the statehouse during his second Albany term. The contrast between FOR's glittering tenure as governor and Hoover's wasteland as president catapulted Roosevelt to power. 
Cuomo comes more attractively endowed with intellect and eloquence than any Demo­crat since Adlai Stevenson, but also with a touch ofearthiness and more political savvy. 

,. 
r 

r P.O.BoxQ
r­
r 
r 
r 
ND pre-meds are well-rounded people 

~ 
r 
Dear Editor: 

r 
It seems hard to believe that anyone who

r 
clearly is as "well-rounded'; as Richard Flint

r 
could be misinformed about any)hing.

r 
However, his knowledge ofNotre Dame's pre­

r 
med program is quite limited, as evidenced by his letter in Wednesday's Observer. Flint

r 
r states that in his four years, he "scarcely met a r handful of pre-meds who have even the most ,.. elemenatary knowledge of, muchless ap­,.. preciation for, anything non-scientific or non­
technical." Furthermore, according to Flint, r pre-meds "grudgingly fulfill their minimal r liberal arts requirements." 
r 
That's funny. All of this time, 1 thought that I was selecting and enjoying_ a broad array of

r 
humanities courses (I'm a pre-med with 47

r 
credits ofmath and science, but over 60 in the

r 
College of Arts and Letters). There is even a pre-med program within the College of Arts and Letters, and the College of Science pre­med curriculum allows the student to take 

r 
many electives. Needless to say, I was disillu­sioned to read about how narrow I really am. 

Most pre-meds realize the importance of a broad education at the undergraduate level. In fact, today most medical schools are looking more toward the balanced student. Medicine iS not just a technical field; it has a large social component, and a physician must be well-versed in many areas. Although some pre-meds do fit Flint's description, most are closer to mine. I have met a great number of pre-meds here, and in general, they are.a very diversifeid group with outside interests ran­ging from art to politics. In addition, most pre­med students participate in a wide vareity of extracurricular activities and community functions. 
It seems that a broadly educated individual should do a little investigative work before 
publically supporting negative stereotype.  such  an  inaccurate,  
GregHendey Alumni Hall  

He will have rivals, in Gary Hart and a host of young senators who, unlike Hart, waited out Mondale. This may also be Ted Kennedy's last fling at greatness. 

But Cuomo, fresh from his convention star­dom, starts as the front runner. And he will be the one whom the growing field of Republicans -Bush, Baker, Kemp, Dole, per­haps even Jeane Kirkpatrick -will have to count as the likely opponent. 
Cuomo will have two problems. One is time. I don't mean too little but too much ­time to turn from idol to target, time to make blunders and enemies in, time to have the patina of stardom wear off, time for ennui to set in. Americans, especially Democrats, have a terribly briefaffection spari, as Gary Hart and Geraldine Ferraro can attest, and Eugene 
McCarthy and Ed Muskie and Ted Kennedy before them. 
The other problem will emerge if the projected Reagan victory turns into a party realignment triumph for the Republicans. The luck ofa nominee is to pick the right year. For Democratic hopes 1988 will doubtless see an economic downturn. But it may also see a new Republican Party emerging. 

(C) 1984, LOS ANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 

McCabe releases an anti-jewish tantrum 

Dear Editor: 
I have no intention of responding to the content of Michael McCabe's anti-Jewish tantrum in the October 3 Obseroer. His twisted thinking speaks adequately for itself. What I do question Is The Observer's judg­ment in giving space to an attack on an ethnic or religious group, in the guise of(legitimate) discussion ofpublic policy. 
Try a briefexperiment. Substitute the word "Catholic," or "Black," or whatever, for "Jew" wherever it appears inhisletter, and appropri­ate sarcastic phrase (Mother Church?) in place of"God's chosen." How does it sound? · 
Alan Dowty Professor, Department ofGovernment 
Letters to the editor may be mailed to The Observer, P_O.Box Q or may be hand delivered to our office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
"subversive" act to have our country's flag on our shirts. I still remember her name. 

As my years in school went by, I noticed the great disparity between the statements made about the American culture and our own cul­ture. Everything American was praised and elevated to the point of dogma. Our Puerto Rican heritage was seldom mentioned. Teach­ers and students who questioned this submis­sion to foreign influence were intimidated by the schoolauthorities. Two ofmy plays for the high school meater were censored because they had "subversive" political overtones. I should have known better. 
The erosion ofour national pride is accom­plishednot only by asserting American superi­ority in all conceivable areas but by telling us that we have no choice. Those wbo control the government tell us that independence means Communism. I was never able to un­derstand how countries much smaller than ours could be independent and non­communish. But I guess those were "subversive" thoughts. 
To be fair, those of us who advocate inde­pendence want to establish a socialist republic akin to that of Norway or Sweden. It makes no sense to advocate independence and yet allow poverty and social inequality to remain. After all, there is little difference be­tween a colonial beggar and a free beggar. Only social equality can restore to our people their sense ofself-worth and cultural dignity. 

Our detractors state that our present sys­tem ensures the dignity ofthe individual. Non­sense. I worked with a law ftrm this summer in Puerto Rico. I had to examine the documents of Cerro Maravilla who were two indepen­dence advocates who were murdered by the police. The brutality ofthe documents is more than enough proof that our present political system cannot stand. I publicly state that: 
•The 
Puerto Rican is becoming the Praetorian Guard of the government in power. It is an institution whose purpose has become the in­timidation through threats, blackmail, torture, and murder ofindependence advocates. 

•The 
Puerto Rican Justice Department has many corrupt officials in high positions. These officials are people who are willing to do anything to implement their personal policies. Their names have already been released by the press and more names may be forthcoming. 

•The 
institutions dealing with the public welfare have become the forum ofpolitical ac­tivity to the detriment of the people. They have become the job rewards for those who support the government and its policies. 



As our people become aware of these events they will start to question the legitimacy of our present government. They are told that their individual rights are safeguarded by the colonial institutions. But to whom will they turn to enforce their rights? Can they ask for police protection? Can they complain to the Justice Department about police brutality? Can they go the the Welfare Department confident that their claims will be processed quickly (we have a case ofa lady who has been waiting for eleven years!)?. Or are all these institutions another way of deceiving the people? 
While the independence movement is not a majority movement, it is the only political force that has had the courage to stand against colonialism. We have nothing against the American people or their culture. But we think we have the right to choose our own political, social, and cultural institutions the same way that tl;)ey can. We can no longer live in fear of the future. 
We have the right to choose our own des­tiny. 

Eduardo Velazquez is a thirdyear law stu­dent at Notre Dame. 


The Observer 7~ Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tOr·ln·Ch1ef. Bot-Vonderheide Bus1ness Manager Dave Ta1clet Manag1ng Ed1tor Mark Worscheh Controller Mar~pat Horne The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the News Ed1tor Sarah Ham1lton ·AdvertiSing Manager Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary·s College. It does not necessar1ly News Ed1tor Dan McCullough C~rculat10n Manager Jeff O"Ne111 reflect the polic1es of the adm1n1Strat1on of e1ther mst1tut1on. The news IS reported as Sa1nt Mary·s Ed1tor . Anne Monastyrsk1 .Systems Manager Kevm Williams
r accurately and as ObJeCtively as possible Uns1gned ed1tor~als represent the opm10n Sports Ed1tor Michael Sull1van
r 
of a maJOrity of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentar~es. letters and the lns1de Column V1ewpo1nt Edllor Dave Grote present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Features Ed1tor . Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966

commun1ty. and the free express1on of vary1ng opm1ons on campus. through letter~. Photo Ed1tor. Pete Laches IS encouraged. 
. ........... •• • ,, ·~. ' ' r, • •. •. • '· \. { ~ [ l . ~ .: • 



Showcase 

Monday, October 8, 1984 -page 7 
-----------~-­
Cheering up! 

A tragic kind of faith 

by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
Q
uestion: What have l spent four years waiting to see, with my breath amazingly bated, my heart bopping along faster than Cyndi l.aupcr, and my face turning Carolina blue? 
For those ofyou who answered "a good Notre Dame football team," Don Pardo will reveal, behind door number four, a year's supply of Good Stu.lf from Student Activities, fifty dollars worth ofliquid paper, and a whole generation ofdisgusting Care Bears. Unfortunately, that's not the correct answer, so none of these prizes are yours. Instead, you get to take home the new bestseller, "Aspirin Man: Anthology," for hours ofreading pleasure. 
'lbe correct answer Is: the Wave. 
Yep, the Wave has finally hit Notre Dame, and everybody wants to take credit for it. The claims run from "Yeah, I was there when the University of Michigan started It" to "It all began back In 1967 at a Chmiel State University football game. I was there." This, according to the gospel of the average fan. 
'lbe same problem occurs with the "high five," which now is widespread throughout the world ofsports. Where did it start? Was It Michigan State and Magic Johnson or was It Louisville and Darrell Griffith, or did the high-five perhaps originate In Iowa In the 30's as a clever way to kill locusts? I've heard the first two, and more. The last is my theory. 
Anyway, reflection upon the scriptures oflast Friday's Observer would enlighten one unto the supposed fact that this phenomena scientists call the Wave had its genesis In the land ofthe University of Washington, slightly more than a stone's cast from the aforementioned places. 
And, as I would have it, this time that fact is indeed true. I know. I 
was there. 
When the Wave first began, I didn't know what was going on, because It started in my section. But you know what they say -when in Rome, do as the Romans do, so pretty soon I was flinging my arms up in quite an absurd manner and saying, "Wooooooo" just like everyone else. And, as the word spread across the stadium, I could see the great numbers ofpeople that were taking part, and it was good. 
Soon the ridiculous acts came to an end, but yet I was so impressed by the enthusiasm of the student body that I commended Its spirit. Later, in the exodus ofpeople leaving the stadium, I thought ofhow wonderful it was to have everyone involved in a cheer such as the Wave, and I figured I'd spread the word. 
So, for forty days and forty nights l traveled the land, starting the Wave In many a football stadium. It was hard work, but sometimes you just gotta make sacrifices. Finally, I had covered so many places that I had people doing the job for me, so I settled down and applied to Notre Dame. 
I was accepted, and ofcourse I consider it a miracle. 'Tis a blessing, In fact. But now everyone wants to take credit for the Wave, and while It was not me who started It, it wasn't Michigan or Chmiel State or anything like that. God knows who it was. I certainly don't, and so don't makt· that assumption. 
But at last the Wave ha~ come to Notre Dame, and it first manifested itself at the Colorado game. I tried to get It started myself, but since I had just gotten a haircut, l felt powerless. But verily l say unto you, it started without me, and l saw It, and It was good. 
However, last Saturday, the seas were calmed. Both the game and the weather had much to do with that, a'i anyone who was unclean wa~ surely purified by the continuous rainfall. I myself felt like I was Inside a big giant fish, but that's another story. 
'lbe Wave tried many times to get started, but was unsuccessful. It was a sad situation, to be sure, and though on the field the team seemed to be walking through the valley ofdeath, I feared no evil, because I was safe up in the stands with my jacket over my head. Still, It wa'i sad, because that Wave just never came to life. 
So, since It seemed that it would never stop raining, and since it seemed that that was why the Wave wasn't working, I had this ark of an Idea: we need some cheers that can be pulled o.lfin a more enjoyable way, something to cheer everyone up, to make them cheerful, as it were. So here are a few ideas for new cheers. 
Tbe Sound ofMusic Cheer. · First you have section 31 stand up and sing, In the key ofG, the word "when." Then, you have section 17, all the way across the stadium, stand up and sing, in the key ofC, the word "you." Then, you have section 29 get up and sing the word "know" in the key ofA. And so on, and so on, until finally it would sound like this: "When-you-know-the-words-to-sing, you-can-sing­most-a-ny-thing." lbis cheer would rattle even the most stable nerves of the opposing team, so would be perfect for closing drive situations. 
The Musical Chairs Cheer. -This, while not really a cheer, would in effect "cheer" everyone up while at the same time giving the ushers something to do. When the game has ended, music can be played over the PA system, while each section files out into the aisles. Then, when the music is turned o.lf, the ushers can close o.lf a section of the stadium, while everyone rushes for seats. Ofcourse an entire block of people will have been shut out, so they can just go home. This would continue until only one section is left, and the winning group of people could win a prize, say, a year's supply ofGood Stu.lffrom Student Activities. 
The Roulette Wheel. -A random person would be p~sed around the stadium while bets are taken on which section the person will end up on when either team scores. 
'lbese are only ideas, so they don't have to be taken as gospel. But remember -they're my ideas, so render unto me the things that are mine and render unto anyone else the things that arc anyone else's. If we can perform any of these at the next home game, at least you can say, "I was there." lbe best thing is, you'll be able to say that forever and ever. Amen. 

Assoclated Press 
COLUMBIA CITY, Ind. -Elizabeth Leach blames the death of her daughter in childbirth on the teach­ings of the Faith Assembly, a faith­healing sect that took root In northern Indiana about 10 years ago. 
Out of curiosity, Mrs. Leach once attended about a dozen Faith Assem­bly meetings with her daughter, Alice, but never joined the closed society whose members believe that medicine is evil. 
Alice Rebecca Rodgers was a young bride -23 years old and married less than a year -when she bled to death. Hemorrhaging was ap­parent during the early part of her pregnancy, Mrs. Leach later learned, but her daughter never sought medi­cal attention. 
Instead, fellow Faith Assembly members knelt in a bedroom beside the woman -four hours aftershe was dead -and tried to pray her back to life. 
The death ofMrs. Rodgers in 1976 is one of at least 88 deaths among Faith Assembly members docu­mented by the Fort Wayne News­Sentinel. Many of the deaths are said to be of infants whose mothers refused medical care during preg­nancy. 
The newspaper said followers who had treatable illness or injury have died as a result of shunning medical help in Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio, Michigan, Missouri and Tennessee. Estimates of the number ofFaith Assembly adherents range from I,500 to 2,000. 
This week, a state judge sen­tenced a Faith Assembly couple to five years in prison for refusing to seek care for their 26-day-old son who, a coroner said, died of pneumonia for lack of a few dollars worth of medicine. 
David and Margaret Hall, who are expecting their fourth child, were the first members of the sect to be convicted on criminal charges for witholding medical care from a de­pendent. The couple said they would appeal their sentence. 
Whitley Circuit Judge Edward }. Meyers, in sentencing the Halls on Monday, said, "certain societies have now reached a point where we can't tolerate human sacrifice in the name ofreligion. I don't feel you can justify this kind ofbehavior." 
Mrs. Hall, 27, told the court before her sentencing that she would again refuse medical attention for her children. 
"On the basis of my convictions, and of my fear of God Almighty, l could not provide medical care," Mrs. Hall said. 
Whitley County Prosecutor John Whiteleather Jr. said he didn't ex­pect the outcome of the Hall case to influence other members ofthe sect. 
"I can only suspect ... when a mother facing five years In prison in­dicates that she will not comply with the law and provide medical care, there certainly are no signs on the horizon that Faith Assembly mem­bers will comply with the law," Whiteleather said. 
A second northeastern Indiana couple who belong to the church were convicted Sept. ll on similar charges after their son died of un· treated bacterial meningitis. They will be sentenced Oct. 29. 
The sect wao; founded in the tiny northern Indiana community of Wil­mot in 1975 by Hobart Freeman, who was excommunicated from the Brethren Church for extremist views. Freeman teaches that super­natural healing based on faith Is the only acceptable treatment for illness and injury. Freeman does not grant interviews and has an unlisted tele­phone. 
The sect's treatment of children has alarmed local officials. "I'm afraid of what's happening to the children whose parents are mem­bers of the church," says Kosciusko County Public Health Nurse Barbara Clouse. "They're not getting their immunization for polio and measles, 

diphtheria and tetanus ... they're not 
wearing  the  glasses  that  are  
prescribed for  them...they  see no  
dentist.  

"I have lived in this county all my life. I don't care how these people worship," she said. "But when they take the life and the welfare of children into their own hands and don't give them a chance, then they're infringing on the children in my county." Ms. Clouse said she once entered the home ofa Faith A5· sembly mother whose .daughter was using only an Ace bandage to treat a badly swollen foot. After alerting the father, who was divorced from the girl's mother, Ms. Clouse said the child was taken to a hospital, where doctors treated her for two broken bones. 
Since last year, Kosciusko aut­horities have used at least half a dozen court orders to enter the homes of Faith Assembly members, Ms. Clouse said. Once inside, offi­cials have discovered children who went untreated for broken bones, scabies, ringworm and serious Ill· ness. "The thing about it is ... gener­ally before we get these cases, the kids are dead," said Ms. Clouse. 
Out of curiosity, both Ms. Clouse and Mrs. Leach said they attended Faith Assembly meetings in the mid· 1970s, when the sect used to gather in what was known as the "Glory Barn" in North Webster. That barn burned to the ground several years ago, and members now meet in a building donated by two church members, one of whom later died of untreated double pneumonia. 
Mrs. Leach, her eyes filling up with tears, says she's never under­stood how Faith Assembly teachings could "brainwash" her daughter into the ultimate test of faith. She recalled that before Alice joined the sect, she had little conception of "faith healing." "I ·remember one time she said to me, 'Mother, when I get married and I'm gonna have a baby, I'm gonna have the best doctor I can get.'" 

Joe 'King' Carrasco and the Crowns, the highlight ofSaturday night's post-game party at Stepan Center. 
• 
• 


Sports Briefs 

The Notre Dame field hockey teatp. beat Western Michigan, 4-1, Friday at Kalamazoo. Corinne DiGiacomo and Melissa Sommer each had a pair of goals for the Irish. Notre Dame is now 3-2-1 on the season and is in action again tomorrow at Toledo. -The Obseroer 
The ND women's tennis team beat Mar­quette, Central Michigan and Saint Mary's, all by 6-0 scores, in the first three rounds of the Irish Invitational yesterday. Tournament action continues today at Courtney Tennis Center. A complete wrap-up can be found in tomorrow's paper. -The Obseroer 
The San Diego Padres. sparked by Tony Gwyn~·s 
tie-breaking double in a four-run seventh inning and strong rehef pitching, won their first National League pennant yesterday, rallying to beat Rick Sutcliffe and the Chicago Cubs, 6-3, in Game Five of the National League playoffs. The victory completed an unprect>dented comeback in NL playoff history and sent the Padres, now in their 16th season, into the 1984 World Series against the American League Champion Detroit Tigers. -AP 
Kosar 
continuedfrom page 12 

lein. "It was very painful, and it wasn't a smart thing for me to keep playing, but I thought the pain would go away. I was okay throwing the short pass, but it hurt to throw the ball long. That's why there were those three-and four-yard passes at the end of the game (when the Irish trailed 24-13 with seven minutes remaining). 
"It was stupid of me to keep playing. I should have given (backup QB) Scott Grooms a chance. He probably could have done a better job." 
The Hurricane defense put pres­sure on Beuerlein, sacking him three times, but the Irish QB found no fault with his offensive line. 
"My pass protection was fine." said Beuerlein. "They caught us once in the fourth quarter on a cor­nerback blitz (when Reggie Sutton nailed Beuerlein for an 11-yard loss on a fourth-and-four play), but gen­erally the receivers weren't open. I 
Monday, October 8, 1984 -page 8 
felt some pressure, but the offensive line did a good job. 
"Penalties were something that really hurt us in the second half, es­pecially when we had to settle for a field goal early in the third quarter (when Mark Brooks was nabbed for a personal foul on second-and-four at the Miami 14). The key penalties hurt us and put us in bad situations." 
While Notre Dame's offense was 
running into problems wi.th the 
Miami defense in the second half, 
Kosar and the Hurricane offense 
were just starting to get untracked. 
The scrambling Miami QB con­
nected on 10 of 14 passes in the 
second half for 146 yards and a 
touchdown. 

"I was satisfied with my perfor­mance," said Kosar. "In the second half we really showed the capability of our offense. We showed that we don't have a one-or two-man of­fense. The key is just to be patient and to do whatever it takes to get the job done -like scrambling." 
"We did some good things in the first half," said Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson. "We were really on track the whole game, not just in the second half. 
"Bernie Kosar proved that he is an excellent football player. He's a great quarterback, and he has come a long way in refining his abilities. He's making the big plays and he's getting better on his scrambling. He might just be the next Fran Tarken­ton." 
Beuerlein has previously been outspoken in his criticism of Kosar's style, saying that the Hurricane star is not very fundamentally-sound, but the Irish signal-caller realizes that style isn't always what counts. 
"Their (Miami's) offense scored, and they moved the ball well," noted Beuerlein. "Kosar did a good job and passed effectively. They scored 31 points, so you've got to give him credit. He made the bigplays -that's the mark of a good quarterback. 
"It was a tough loss, and I was dis­appointed with myselffor staying in the game. I should have been smarter. I didn't use my head. But we haven't lost any confidence in our­selves as a team. and I personally haven't lost any confidence in myself." 


through Frillay The Obsen'er Saint :\lan·'s offk'l'. locatnl on the third floor of Haggar Colkgt· Center, acn·pts classified' from 12:.~0 p.m. umil .~p.m .. Mon­day though ~riday. lkadlint· for ncxt-da\ tla"itinb is .~ p.m. All classitkds must he prepaid. eilher in person or hY mail. Charge b I0 t'l'lll' per fin· charac­



Classifieds 
tt·rs er day. 

The Ohserr•er Notre Dame office. locatl'll on thl' thirll floor of l.aFortunl' Stullcnt <:emt·r. accept' classifil'd all\'l'r!ising from 9 a.m. until-! p.m.. ,\lonllay 
TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL OBSERVER STAFF FORUM MY FATHER IS DYING to see the HEY PADRES FANSII! STEVEATx1803. All ObHt'V..-writ..-., edltora, photog­S.Carolina game but only has tickets to If you re really confident about your 
raphera and production aort of people Air Force.Lets trade'EIIen 284-4379 boys from San Diego, 
are invited to The Obaerv..-atalllorum why not put your green stuff where your SOUTH CAROLINA tonight at 7 In the N-Orteena Room Bilsy...Kiss the MONKEY mouth is? 
L.___N_O_TIC_E_S__JllL__W_A_NT_E_D_____J 
...................... 

Will trade 3 end zone GA's of LaFortune. (It'a on the aouth aide of I'm looking lor a little friendly acYon on theEXPERT TYPING 277-8534 alter 5:30 Need Ride To FL for Break, call Karen 
and 2 student tickets the llrat floor, ecroaa from the OBUD SHADOW WOMAN HOW'S THE TRAF­senes­····························· for 3 respectable GA's. bar.) Toplca of dlacuulon Include the FIC ON LAKE SHORE DRIVE If you want to put up a lew beena against
2720816. TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
4278 quality of our product, The ObHrv..-'a the TigersNEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND LEAVING 
public lmege, and the how efficient -HEY FLAME! Happy Birthday to you. CALL 2026 .... TODAY!!!
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. ON 10/19. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. 
are In putting out the nlght'a paper. Happy Birthday to Hugh Happy BirthdayCALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1688 IF ABLE MY LITTLE SISTER WANTS TO 
Plea..let your opinion be known. dear Confidence Queen. Happy BirthdayTO HELP. CELEBRATE HER 18TH &-DAY BY to you. (Pretend like I sang that on key.) LARRY BURKE!!!
TYPING COMING TO THE PENN ST GAME. IF GIVE TO THE UNITED WAY!!!!! Please. Hope you have a fantastic 19th, Cath­You are rolling.
Jacl<ie Boggs RIDE NEEDED TO DENVER FOR FALL YOU CAN HELP ME OUT WITH A erine. Love, Fred 684-8793 BREAK. ANNE 284-5076 TICKET SHE WILL BEAR YOU A SON! 
WASHINGTON DC AREA BUS FOR CALL MARY AT 2662 TODAY FOR FALL BREAK SIGN-UPS: TUESDAY, IT'S BEITER THAN BREAK DANCING ! miss m. siegerGOING TO CINCI, OH. FOR FALL THIS OPPORTUNITY OF A LIFETIME! 
OCT. 9 6:3Q-8:00 PM, 2ND FLOOR IT'S BIGGER THAN MICHAEL JACK­Will type your papers, manuscripts, etc. BREAK? A FRIEND AND MYSELF 
LAFORTUNE $60 ROUND-TRIP SON ! IT'S MENUDO 1111!11 MENUDO This one·s for you ..thanks lor pullingFast and accurate. Reasonable rates. DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE. WILL DON'T SELL ME YOUR TROJAN tick· RULES!!!! up with me. 
Pick up and drop off service. Call Mary SHARE EXPENSES. IF LEAVING eta. I need your PENN STATE G.A.a. 
HEAD START Tomorrow 7:00 Haggar The roommate234-5545. AFTER S.CAROUNA GAME ON can Nick at 1580. 
.........,.•.............................•.. 
ATTENTION DANCERS AUDITIONS20TH,CALL ED-1818 YES YES It's true !! Those wild women at FOR ND/SMC DANCE THEATRE STU­EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 I'LL SELL MY TROJAN'S In order to Pasquerilla East have invited MENUDO DENT CONCERT WILL BE HELD TUES. 
GOOOOOOOOOO PADRESIIIPITTSBURGH: NEED RIDE/RIDERS buy S.C. G.A.a. caUB..-ry at 3815. 
to play at their next formal !!!!!!!! OCT. 9. AT 7:00 PM IN THE REGIONA THRASH TIGERS!!!TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. LEAVING THURS(10/18) OR 
HALL DANCE STUDIO, SMC, WATCH FRI(10/19). CALL JIM 277-3541 WANTED 4 TICKETS FOR AIR FORCE 
STEVE DEMARTINO FOR UMOC !! FOR POSTERS. WASHINGTON DC AREA BUS SIGN­GAME. WILL PAY CALL COLLECT, 
START SAVING YOUR PENNIES ! 
Once a freshman, always a freshman.
UPS FOR FAU BREAK TUES 9TH; 2ND NOT AIR FORCE , NO NOT EVEN ELKHART 264-1761 Right PoHer? 
t 
FLOOR LAFORTUNE; 6:30-8:00 PENN STATE BUT SOUTH CAROLINA AMATEUR NIGHT-OCT 9, TUESDAY FUN GIRL WANTS TO PARTY AT IU NEED TICKETS DESPARATELY. CALL I need 2 AIR FORCE student or G.A. tick-. 
BLOOMINGTON BUT SHE NEEDS A Marc, you drive me MAO!!!
TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-81197 3071 ASK FOR DAN. ets. Call Tricia 2939 AMATUER NIGHT-OCT. 9 TUESDAY RIDE! OCT. 12-0CT. 14. WILL SHARE
l 
ANY EXPENSES. CALL PATII283-4015 This is a personal that says somethingWORLD HUNGER COALITION SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? ~ 4 GA'a lor PENN STATE. can AMATUER NIGHT-OCT. 9TUESDAY nice about Mary Keating: she is a 
t 
MEETING: Tonight at 9:00 in the Center I need • ride to Syr. lor October break. Kevin at 287·6262. 
goddess. However nothing nice can be
··········-·········· 
for Social Concerns; Professor Peter can leave Thuraday evening or HEY! WHAT ARE YOU DOIIIIINNGGG? BOSTON CLUB OCTOBER BREAK said about that hole Neenah, Wisconsin.
Walshe will give an informal presantation. any11me Friday. Will ahare uaual. can AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-6306 
Well, if you're not doing anything during BUS SIGNUPS MONDAY,OCT.8 on the AU ARE WELCOME . Billet 1420. Fall Break and you think you might just first floor of LaFortune. Round trip cost is 
NEED 3 S. CAROLINA GA'S PLEASE!! 
want to go to New Orleans and have the $11 O! Bus leaves aher the South Carolina SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? TODDX1688. 
time of your life, how about taking my game at6:30 p.m. First come, first served. 
I need • ride to Syr. lor October break. 
$1 oo deposit off my hands tor the mere
•l 
THE PETE AND RAY SERIAL 5Want to get to Long Island for Fall break? can leave any11me lift..-the game on $$$ NEED MANY PENN STATE TIX. 
price of $50? It's a steal, if you ask me. 
Congrats Ray on making the team, butRide the Long Island club bus for only Saturday. Will ahare uaual. can Debbie CALL KEVIN x2092. 
Call Dray at 2807. Okay? 
don't let that make you think you are68.00 Sign ups this Sunday Oct. 14 at 4:00 at 284-5011. 
human. Pete, it is really not your fault thatp.m. in Lafortune Lobby. My two innocent sisters from West (by 
Hungry like the wolfpup! 
you are from Wisconsin. The original Goerner woman is 18 today­Need ride to and or from MI,Detroit Oct God) Virginia are coming in for the South 
12-14 SMC Tammy 5181 carolina game and they'll be heartbroken and,wow,is she ready to celebrate! She's 
Did you knowthatB.P. hadaSYR Friday? definitely a babe worth gelling to know so if they can't get tickets. I'll need two stu­Did you know that it was a 'Barn Dance?'
RIDE NEEDED to Milwaukee for Oct. dent tix, please. can ZEKE at 2045. 
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE 
~ 
give Beck a call at 2853 and offer her a Isn't that fiHing? bday dacquiri (or whatever)
LOST/FOUND 

Break. Hope to leave on Fri. Oct. 19. Will •WORLD 
I 
share expenses. Gall Mark 3828. NEED 3 AIR FORCE GA'S RALPH 1486 · needs a ride to Buffalo for Fall Break! 
UTILE TOMMY TORTER says, 'ScrewWhaddaya think, huh? Ten hours in an 
Go King ... Beat GRE'!REWARD -LOST -MEN'S GOLD N.D. COME & EXPERIENCE ONE Need 2 PENN STATE tickets.Will pay lop itsy bilsy littte car with the equivalent of everybody, before they get you first.' CLASS RING BLUE STONE INSCRIP­of the AREA'S MOST EXCITING dollar.Call SEAN at 4644. Victoria Principal? I can leave anytime. 
Hey PAUL NICK CHARLIE AND STAN! 
UTILE TOMMY TORTERTION DJH '85-IF FOUND PLEASE CALL FOOD&DRINK Call Nance at 284·5439. Remember... 

What did you skidders do last ThursdayDAN AT 234-9515 OR 263-3429. ESTABLISHMENTS AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET for sale. THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE night? Thanks guys it was worth it. I can't HEY!II
H.l.'s Old Town Saloon, 213 Front St., Best offer by Mon. Spm. Call TICKETMAN WORLD wait lor the pictures. 
ALL YOU OBNOXIOUS CUBS FANS!!!
LOST; IF ANYONE HAPPENED TO Niles, Mich., is now accepting applica­at3305. PICK UP A JEAN JACKET THAT DOES tions for Wait stall, Bartender, Hostesses, 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAH­
You should know what Debbie Buchanan 
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHIII! does in rm. 211 LeMansNOT BELONG TO THEM OR KNOWS Doormen, & Bus Staff. Only experienced Help I need 2 Penn State GA tix.lf can 
THE WHEREABOUTS OF ONE THAT need apply. 684-m4 help please contact Ann Marie 284-4361. A wop bop bop a/u bop (That Mike DeMaio laugh) WAS LOST AT THE HOTEL CONTINEN­a wop bam boom! 
TO ALL VIABLE GIRLS:TAL IN CHICAGO DURING THE Fiiof j;~ PITISBURGH to NO alter Need 4 S. Carolina tickets. Will pay big -Littte Richard Here's your chance to
WATCHING OF THE NOTRE DAME break. PLEASE helplcall3149 or 4678 money for these babies. Call Bob, 277-Skid Row.....sometimes life is just a trivial 
wish the suave 'JD'
LAST SATURDAY PLEASE CALL 6559 pursuit.
Dowda happy 18th.
WARD AT 277-4568. 

To the men of Motel6 in Columbia, it was Jim, welcome to legality. 
LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS'!
NEED 1 AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET fun, but WHAT ARE YOU-HIGH? Love, 
Have a good one.
LOST: (1) MICROECONOMICS CAUx1103 SUNDAY OCT. 14, 4 p.m. LaFortune
Barb and Suzanne. TEXTBOOK BY RUFFIN & GREGORY ··········••··········•• •............•.•••...
FOR SALE lobby BE THERE!! round trip 68.00. watch and (2) MICRO-ECONOMICS NEED LSU TICKETS!II mail for further details.
Need ride to vicinity of Buffalo (St. 
BOSTON CLUB OCTOBER BREAK
HOMEWORK PAPERS. If you have them ...................... We need them. We want them. We love Bonaventure Unlv..-.lty) lor Break. 
BUS SIGNUPS MONDAY OCT.8 on the or find them pleasa call Frank at 3329 or 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. BEST OFFER BY them. Gall Vinca al 2538 or James at Wlllehare expen-. can Mike at 2466. 
first floor of LaFortune. Round trip cost isbring them to 325 Keenan Hall. 10/11. CALL JANET AT 4376 2530. 
$110. Bus leaves alter the South Carolina 
game at 6:30p.m. FIRST COME, FIRST ATIN: Beware ol the HE-MAN-AT­
FOUND: key IOJ room 222. call 4203 to HEY KELLY O'NEIL AND BETH 
SERVED.

claim your key. WHELPLEY!II
LARGE on SMC campus! Guard your I heard something from "Tess Baby" that Ibrownies! 
WORLD HUNGER COALITION just couldn't believerLOST ROOM KEY AND MAIL KEY ON L__T_IC_K_ET_S~' L_l_P_ER_SO__NA_L_S~ MEETING: Tonight at 9:00 in the Center 
lor Social Concerns. Professor Peter
LEATHER TAB KEYRING. IM LOCKED And, if its true, you'd beHer grow eyes in 
OUT OF MY ROOM AND MY MAILBOX OBSERVER STAFF FORUM the back of your heads, IS STUFFED. HELP ED 1153 TWO AIR FORCE GA'S NEEDED. CALL Obaervw atallera: Come and dlacuu because you can't go around writing my
Walshe will give an informal presentation. ALL ARE WELCOME.
HELPIII I NEED 3 GA OR PARENT'S STEVEATx1803. the general operation of the n-pe­name just anywhere. LOST ON TWO SEPARATE OCCA­TICKETS FOR THE ND-SOUTH p..-: goool'l, future, peat, thlnga done WHEN YOU LEAST EXPECT IT -EX­SIONS 3 BRACELET5-2 PEARL,l CAROLINA GAME!!! NAME YOUR rtght, and thlnga dona wrong and F-YOUR TIME HAS COME!!II knew only PECTITIII GOLD and 1 GOLD BRACELET PRICE!II CALL ADAM AT 1801. more. TONIGHT AT 71N THE NEW OR­plants were asexual. DURING THE WEEKEND OF ........ ....... . PITT CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS: Monday LEANS ROOM (on 1at floor of ······························· SEPT.22.1F FOUND PLEASE CALL WILL PAY for 4-6 Penn Stale GA's. Pat Oct. 8 in the LaFortune Littte Theater (6-7 LaFortune) Wouldn't it be nice if we each had three Pete and Ray serial 5 (conl'd) Pete and 1759.REWARD 1155. pm)... SPECIAL REDUCED RATES!!\!! life-timeouts. Ray behaved lhis W89kend. By the way 
$40.00 round trip, $28.00 one way. Hey, Ann Murphy! guys, who cleaned up your room? Ray, WANTED! WANTED! WANTED! Busses will leave Saturday, Oct. 20th He-man wants to wish you an early b-day Hey Torn and Chrla my money is still on December!! (aher the game). If demand is strong personally' Are you sure that horsing around in a barn ~ 4 G.A. tlcketa to the South enough, we will also sponsor a bus to is really part of standard discernment COKE IS ITFOR RENT Carolina football game on October 20. USC TRIP OVER TURKEY-DAY! INTER­procedures?? Will we ever get the smoke
depanon Friday, October 19th. Any ques­Willing to Mil ah-oii.B.M. etock to tions call Tom Farnan at 1650. ESTED? YOU BET. COME HELP PLAN out of our coats and the straw out of our COKE IS IT finance deal. can Mark w. at 283-2045 A PACKAGE DEAL. WED 9 PM. LA­hair? Thanks for a great time' Efficiency apt. private entrance utilities or 239-5313: OBSERVER STAFF FORUM FORTUNE. QUESTIONS: MAX 287-S&C COKE IS IT paid single person 288-o955/277-3604. TONIGHTAT7 3136. I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE S. NEW ORLEANS ROOM Furnished faculty apanment C8stle Point CAROLINA GAME DESPERATELY !!! (acroulrom Student Actlv'­Need ride to Warren-Youngslown,Ohio KEVIN available Jan-July 1 $295 month, 272-$$$$$ Will Pay Well $$$$$ Cell Cliff at offlce on let floor LaFortune) area for Oct.Break.Will share ex­How 'boullhem TIGERS!!! 9805 4511 NOW! penses.P~ call Elaine 4117(SMC) what exactiy is an outstanding value? 
..........................,,..-.................. 

The Observer Monday, October 8, 1984 -page 9 
Yesterday's doubleheader cancelled 
Baseball team wins one, ties one 
Courtney says that the victory was 

important to the Irish for several 
reasons. 
"This is one of the bigger wins 

since I've been here," Courtney 
claims. "It gives us confidence and 
we now feel that we are a team to be 
reckoned with. 
"Last year we had a good start, but did poorly in the Notre Dame Invita­tional. After that we lost confidence ·and fell apart. Now we know we're 
good." 
The team has next weekend off. It will give the Irish a chance to rest, catch up on school, and prepare for the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet on Oct. 19. The field at that meet will include 16th-ranked Purdue, so Notre Dame must continue to im­prove in order to continue its unde­feated season. 
friday"• RrsuliB 
Un.lvcnlty I>Msloo 
Team M:ur~: Notrt-l>amt-.,~, SE Mb.o;.ourl St. 
II 'I), Malont· l.i~. EdJnburo 146, Rnwllnl{ c•rrt-n 
1'1)4, Michigan 166,llllnol!t Statr I"';\, Ohio Starr 
.lO'i. ~'cto~trrn Mic.:hl~tOin .ll.l, South l>akma Statr 
1.36, North Crntrall.:\8, \\'iKon~ln·l.aC:r<MiK J.'l).,, 
F.a.-.tcrn Mkhigan l~ I, ~aglnaw Vallry ;\l:\, 
WIM:On.tiln·Stt'Vt'l\5 Point :\98, F.a."itrrn lllinoi~ 4'1)4, 
nradley 468. Ch:vdand Statt-1'79. 
Top I 0 indlviduah. Mlkr Vanaua ( SE Mls.'loourl) 
1.4:02... : C:brtlrl 8rrwMrr (Michigan) 1.4:0..,.:~; <l<tctan C.trard ( Uowllntt Green) 1.4:08.9, joe l.ruchtmann ( SE Ml!'h~nurl) 24. I~."; Rob lNnpht')' (North Crntr.d) 1.4: IH.:\; Arthur Waddlt' (SF. MIJ'· souri) 24:21.1: RJck WU~on (Malone") 1:4:21.6; GrcR Lovt-(lllinol~ Statr) 1:4:1:2 I; Kurt Klodnkk ( OhJu Statt-) 1.4:.?;3.1; Tim Cannon (Noire Uamr) l4,H.4. 
Othrr Notrr l>amc runntn: l.l. F.d WJIIrnhlink 2-i:29.2; I~. l>an <iarrctt1:4.."·"·4; ,... Mlkt-Collin. H·.3~.4; B. Jim Tylct 24'311.3; 1\111 Counn<y 14,~ I.O;john Magllll~;lb.b. 

By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
In Notre Dame baseball action this weekend, Buster Lopes yielded only one run in nine innings pitched as the Irish defeated Lewis College by a score of2-1 in the first game ofa doubleheader Saturday. The second game was called after seven innings of play with the score tied at six apiece, when the two coaches decided not to play any longer. 
r 
Yesterday's scheduled doubleheader with Glen Oaks was cancelled because of rain. 
In the first game Saturday, Lewis 

College led 1-0 after the first inning ofplay. Lewis held that lead until the 
c""•. 
seventh when Dave Clark doubled and was driven in by Mike Trudeau. The game procceeded into extra in­nings with both squads immersed in 
The Notre Dame cross-country team used pack running like that a pitchers dual. shown here and great teamwork to win the 32nd annual Notre Finally, in the ninth, senior first Dame Invitational Friday. Nick Schrantz details the Irish win in baseman John Murphy ended the 
plll•h•i•s•s•torylli•o•nlilp•atig•e•I•2•.••••••••••••••••••••III game with an RBI single, driving in 
• Mike Dorney to give the Irish the ......,_.,..."!"'"..,..,..,..,..,..,..,..,.-..,..,..,.,..,..,..1""1",..,'"1"'..,..,....,..1""1""\""''"I"'.,.......,'"I"'"'T'""'"T.,..,. victory. After yielding the run in the first, Lopes pitched eight innings of ~Wc-l\1-llilt+• shutout ball in obtaining the victory. In the second game, the offense's ofboth teams awakened. Offensively 
...l..l..._;,.,j,.;.,.;..J,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...,...;.,j,j,...,....l... for the Irish, junior shortstop Tom Shield and freshman catcher Mike 
S.M.U. SCIIDOL OF LAW 
DALLAS, TEXAS 
Professor Regis W. Campfield, BBA, Notre Dame; LL.B., University of Virginia; Chairman of the Notre Dame Estate Planning Institute, will be on campus 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9 
from 7 to 9 p.m. in Room 208 of O'Shaughnessy Hall to talk with students about admission and financial assistance. All interested students are welcome to meet with Professor Campfield during this time. 
McNeill each collected two RBI's and junior third baseman Rich Van­thournout went two-for-three to key the Irish hitting attack. 
This weekend's games were part of the fall baseball season, where the games are counted only as exhibi­tions. The team will play for keeps starting next spring. 
Notre Dame coach Larry Gallo says he is using the fall season primarily to evaluate talent and to work on fundamentals and situation plays (for instance, defensing a bunt with runners on base). 
If one were to pick out a major weak spot on the Irish ballclub, it would have to be a lack of offensive power. This year, Notre Dame will play without Mike Metzler, Carl Vuono and Jimmy Dee, who all graduated. These three collected over I 50 RBI's and accounted for all but four Irish home runs last year. 
With no one stepping forward as a power hitter, the Irish will have to rely on a more speed-oriented at­tack. With many contact hitters and above-average team speed on this year's squad, Gallo is looking to develop an offensive attack much like the type that brought the St. Louis Cardinals a World Champion­ship in 1982. 
Defensively, Gallo is looking for 
1 

lA Tll'L.I 0' 'lMLICATION 
Tho Observer 
Robert H. Vonderheide, lll Cavonough, Notre Oame, IN 46556 
DtTOf' (,._. -.1 C,_.,H ....... A.,._l 
Aoblrt H. Vondorhefdo, lll Cavenaugh, Notre DIM, IN 46556 
Mork E. Wor>choh, 316 Stanford, Notre Ootne, IN 46556 a.r.IRtlf•.-H t)'t ~---/u _,.-..~~--~-IMHfl_,. ........._..,...,.,._,... 1111 --M4~ro/tfOC'~ 
...... _........, ,,__, .,,.,,_ ,0/JI-· ,,.._,Mifl~,_,.,,,..,...,.,.,...,_..rf
,_,.,_.....,.,~ ....... 
a.··-,._...,,,.,_,.._,.,,..,.,,.._..,rp_Nd/fnr4,1" _ _.etild,..,M..,.......,.,,_IillfwH~-nN,tHot.//llt#,.a.wc.. 
....,.......,._ t)' 1 ~~ ~,,_, IU --..W .,._ ,..., N rMNrliiJ (II'""'_, lw tOM/IhtMI.J 

KNOWtrf IONDHOLDI,_t, ~TGAOIII, AND OTHIPII llCUAITY HOLDE AI OWNING OA HOLDING I PERCENT OR MORE OF TOTAL AMOuNT OP IONDI, M(M'ITOAGEI Oft DTHEA IECUAITIU (1/ ,_,.,.. ,,. INHII, ro ,,.,., 
FULL NAME 

COfMLETE MAILING AOOIItESS 
FOR COMf'lETION IV NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS AUTHOFUZED TO MAIL AT SPECIAl RATES (Srt·Jirm •11 11 lJMM tUIIfi Till pur~. l~o~nchon, 11nd nonpfolu Utli>t ol trltt Ol'tan!llhon tnd th11 •~•mPIIIIIUI lor fldl11l •neomt liM purPO•• IC'IIrd ont/ 
r.:J "'HAl NOT CHANGII!D DURING 
(1/<'llt!tftd pllbiUhrrrniiJflllbmuuplllnlln<>rtO/ L1J PRiCIOING 12 MONT HI ('hll'lllwtthtlllltt.,tmtrtt/ 
10  IXTfNT AND NATURF OF CIRCULATION  AVERAGE NO COPIES EACH ISSUE DURING PRECEDING I M NT  ACTUAL NO COPIES OF SINGLE ISSUE PUBLISHED NEAREST TO FILING DArE  
12,000  12,325  
II  I'A.IDCIRCULAliON I s.I"II'I!OiiQhd..llltltMtllll!.,t,U!..Ivln.dotlllldtOUt11.1WI"  9,950----­~---. 1,650  10,310 1,615  
C TOfAL I'AID CIRCULATION tS"'" "/IUHI •n.J 1!18-'1 U I'RI::f UllfHIBUTION BY MAIL. CARRIER OR OTHER MEANS 5AMI'Lfl COMPLIMfNfAAY ANOOTHEA FAfE COPII!S  II ,600 ?50  11,925, 250  
I  TOTAL OIITAIIUTIUN 1.\1"" "I t'o~l't.J IJ1  II ,850  
F COI'ttl NOT OISfAIBUffO I Oll•nuw llho.<., ul4aecounU<d wo•ll'dlftr• pt.nllt~g  150  
C. fOTALt,'fto'""ll 1/t~IHi.' 111•..,1&/III"''""I'"U"'nrhtt-lltA/  
It  I c::.,.ufy that the ••••~ts made by me .txwe 1re c::orrect and complete  

PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
•
teat·a·Uipe llbrarrv 

•
relafon:e•eat teat 

• 
ho•-t.dy packet 


I 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272·4135 
THE ARMY NURSING CHALLENGE 
You've worked hard getting your degree, hard enough that you'd like to continue the challenge. That's what Army Nursing offers. The challenge of prof~~lonal practice, new study opportunities, continuing education and travel are all part of Army Nursing. And you'll have the respect a·nd dignity accorded an officer in the United States Army. If you're working on your BSN or ir you already have a BSN and are registered to practice In the United States or Puerto Rico, talk to our Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
SGT JOHN MOORE 
(815) 727-9120 CALL COLLECT 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
his pitching staffand an experienced infield to provide the foundation for a winning season this year. 
Among his many talented pitchers are Lopes, Mark Watzke (5-0 last year) and Kevin Chenail, who was drafted by the Cleveland Indians this past spring. 
The Infield consists of Vamhour­nout at third, Shield at short and senior second baseman Jack Moran, who captains the 1984-85 Irish squad. Senior John Murphy and junior Tom Guilfoile are presently battling it out for the starting job at first base. 
The Irish have good reason to look forward to a productive season this year. Consistent pitching, good team speed and sound execution of the fundamentals are the tools by which Notre Dame is hoping to bet­ter its 24-24 record of a year ago. 


Teamwork 
continued/rom page 12 

country team is having five good runners together in a pack. This is evidenced by the fact that the time difference between the first· and fifth-place runners for Notre Dame was only 13 seconds. 
"The time spread is the most im­portant factor in winning," says Courtney. "This becomes even more important in bigger meets when you have two and three run­ners finishing each second because one poor runner will be forced even farther back in the scoring." 
Southeast Missouri State showed what happens when a team has several outstanding runners, but one or two who finish far behind. Besides having the winning runner, it also had the fourth-and sixth­place runners. However, it lost any chance for victory when its fourth and fifth runners finished 50th and 54th. 
The top five Irish runners has dif­fered in each meet this year. This fact shows that if one runner does poorly, another man is there to pick up the slack and help the team. In last Friday's meet, Courtney and Magill did not run as well as they were able, but Willenbrink, Garrett and Tyler all had their best times of the year and carried much of the burden for the Irish. 
The Observer Monday, October 8, 1984 -page 10 
Miami 
continuedfrom page 12 
fense." 

Although the Notre Dame defense did not have much success stopping Miami, the real problem was the of­fense. When quarterback Steve Beuerlein hurt his shoulder keeping on an option play in the first halfand could not •throw effectively, it became very important for the rush­ing game to get going. However, as in every game this year, the Irish 
, ~uld not put anything together on 
/the ground. Pinkett was held to 57 yards in I 5 carries, and, as a team, Notre Dame netted only 53 yards. The poor performance further lowered the output of the rushing offense, which was already low at 
135.0 yards per game. If the perfor­mance doesn't improve appreciably, the 1984 Irish could set a Notre Dame record for lowest rushing average since the NCAA began keeping stats in 1946. 

With talented runners like Pinkett, Brooks and Smith, this statis­tic does not reflect well on the offen­sive line which, like most positions on the team, has had its share of in­juries. At this point of the season, in fact, the offensive line's run blocking has probably been the biggest disap­pointment on the team. 
"We've had trouble the last two weeks with our offense in the second half," said Irish coach Gerry Faust, who will undoubtedly be feeling quite a bit of heat from the fans now. "We just didn't move the ball enough to give our defense some rest." 
As in most Notre Dame losses, there were some breaks that went against the Irish. Mike Haywood blocked a punt, but the ball ad­vanced past the line of scrimmage, which means that rules applying on punts and kickoffs take effect. Be­cause a Notre Dame player touched the ball, it became a free bali and Miami recovered. 

On Miami's second drive of the second half, the Irish had another important call go against them when Pat Ballage intercepted a pass in the end zone after it had been tipped by Troy Wilson. Defensive pass inter­ference was called on ND, though the Irish players disagreed. Miami scored on the next play, and the game was over for all intents and purposes. 
Once again, though, bad fortune was not the reason that Notre Dame lost another big game. Miami has some bad breaks, too. It all came down to execution and Miami ex­ecuted much better than Notre Dame in the second half, especially on the line of scrimmage. As the second half progressed, it became apparent that Miami had the better team, although not all Irish players were convinced. 

"I still don't think they are as good as us on the football field," said de­fensive lineman Mike Gann after the game. "I thought we handled them up front but didn't make the tackles. I can't understand it. We just didn't seem to take it to them in the second 
half." 
October 6, 1914 

Miami  0  7  14  10  - 31  
Notte Dame  0  10  3  0  - 13  
Scoria&  

UM-Hlahsmllh 3 pusfrom Kosar(Sc<Ugldck) 
ND -Tukn fu<cc:d out ol<ndzon< 
ND-jackson4 pusfrom llat<tldnOdll:rsonrun) 
ND -FG 39 Carn<y 
UM -HIBfl5mllh I run (Sc<Usklclt) 
UM-H1Bfl5mllh 2 run(Sc<Ugldck) 
UM -FG 27 Sc<lltJ 
UM -Hlgl>smllh I pus from Kosar (Sc<llgldclt) 

VM ND FtmdoWII5 20 14 Rwblng Oll<mp<5 45 30 N<l Yards Rushing 149 53 N<t Yards P:wlng 205 141 l'us<s COIIIJ!"all<mpt<d 2D-29 16-29 Hod lnt<rc<pl<d 0 2 TotaiN<tYards 354 194 l'umbl<S-IOSI H 4·1 hnalU<S-yards 5-46 6-48 Punts-average 2·20 5-33.6 
RUSHING-Miami' Hlghsmllh 18-66; Ollv<r 14·51; Williams 6-~0; E. Brown 1·13; Bratton '-8; Tuten 1--1 0; Kosar 2··9; Notr< Dam<' Plnlt<1113·57; Smllh 3·13;Jd· fcnon 4-7; Brooko 2·4; Bcu<rl<ln 8··26; 
PASSING-Miami' Kosar 20·29·0, 205; Nou< Dam<' llat<rldn 16-29-2, 141; 
RECEMNG -Miami' Brown 7-126; Hlghsmllh 6-18; SmJth 4-35; Shakespeare 2-25; Bratton 1·1; Notre Dam<' jackson 5·36; Bavaro 3-33; Plnlt<ll 3·18; Smtih 2·20;Howard2·17;Brown 1·17; 
All<ndanc<-59,075 

like Gann, most of the players were not quite sure what went wrong. 
"The momentum probably swung after they scored the first time in the second half," said linebacker Mike Golic. "We didn't execute as well in the second half as in the first half. I have to wait and see the film to see what happened." 
"In the second half, we weren't able to do anything," said Pinkett, who is having a very frustrating year after his fifth straight game under 70 yards.· 
"Revenge was definitely on our minds, but we played two different games. In the first half, we were able to execute. This was your typical Miami team -there was a lot of talking. It wasn't as bad as last year, though." 
As always, though, "not as bad" does not mean "good." 
Need LSU Tix Call collect eves. 
504·291·0642 


531 N. Michigan St.. ~ Phone 233-4957 JQi 
...................................................ff/!!';1 
:~·····························: 
• ~ j • 



~~-~way~ 
···················••i••·····~· 
:•. i  S.C>.~.P Students on Alcohol Problems  :•!  
:!  Meeting on Mondays at 4 :oo pm. Counseling & Psychological Services  :!  
:  Center rm. 310­ :  
:!  Do you have some ideas aboufalcohol? Would you like to share them with other  :!  
:  students who may also be like you?  :  
:  Call239-5085 or stop by C.&PSC. (Mon. & Thurs.)  :  

................................................ 

including chest --.. New colors and patt~r:· in popular crew
Fall __..-eds and more $J099 
stripes. ~leWhs,~collection! comp. $26 0 neck styling. 
Scottsdale Mall• UniversityMall 
OpenSunday 
He...e's a UJ.I• 
~ , all half­,._ _,.They're all on saJe, they rein taupe ~sued•JU<J"..':" wc;Tist-style suedes come :b 1_ prJce. our long:we~~f fashion details and super$6~
and grey. feature loa )0 ing. comp. $130 
MasterCard, American Express and VIS'\. are ~!come. 
--------------------~~-------­



T0 day______________________
M_o_n_d_a_y_,O-c-t<.>b_e_r_s_._l_9_8_4__P_a_g_e_l_l 
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 



Berke Breathed 

Octavio 
1\ PACili\CrE FROM TI-IA"f c.RA'-'f A~l!lo.l M.. r:J ? WIJAI 1<1~0 OF SILK 
:Tot<£ IS HE: 
PLA'{ 1'-lq 11-fiS "TII'If? 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

Campus 
•3:30-4:30p.m.-Computer 
Minicourse, TSO, Third Session -Room .23 CCMB, Macintosh, First Session-Room 115 CCMB, Available to the Public, Free. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Address to Faculty, By Father Hes­burgh, Washington Hall. 

•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meeting , Room 122 Hayes Healy. 

•
7 p.m. -Senior Class Organizational Meeting , "Beginning-of-the-End" 'week , I.5 LaFortune , Sponsored by Senior Class Office , All Are Welcome. 

•7 
p.m.-Notre Dame L•5 Society Meeting, Film "High Frontier" and Discussion to Follow , Little lbeatre, LaFortune , Open to the Public. 

•7 
p.m.-Film, "Ivan the Terrible," Center for So­cial Concerns, Free. 

•
7 & 9 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series I , "'Ibe Wizard of Oz," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m.-Social Concerns Film Series, "lbe Candidate," Engineering Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Faculty Senate Meeting, Room .20.2 CCE. 

•H 
p.m. -Tape of Gov. Cuomo's Speech , "Religious Belief & Public Morality: A Catholic Governor's Perspective," Carroll Hall -SMC, Sponsored by SMC Campus Ministry. 



TV::· Tonight
Psychochicken 
w .... .,. 1\ DEP~'SSI...,~ WEU£ND I HIS Wft!>­
T~£ W~I'ITHEII WA~ BAI> I HIE Cio~"'" WIIS I>IO~SE", 1\ND ~yc.f!O IS STILL MI,.,SI.Jit••• 
HEY, wHAT'~ 
THI'!.?! 
HM"'M ..• r worJOER 
11'/HI\T II tOt!LP B~ • 
6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. lO:OOp.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 11:30p.m. !2:00a.m. 
16 22 16 22 28 16 22 28 
34 22 
34 16 22 34 
16 22 28 34 16 28 28 

M*A*S*H Family Feud TV Bloopers & Practical Jokes Scarecr(lw & Mrs. King Call To Glory Monday Night at the Movies Kate & Allie Football-San Francisco at New York Giants Wonderworks The 18th Annual Country Music Awards 
Hcrita~o~e 
Ns,wsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News The New Capitalists: Economks In· dian Country Tonight Show Simon & Simon/McMillan Newswatch 28 Movie · Bringing Up Ba y Late Night With David Letterman ABC News Nightlinc Love Connection 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 35 Okra 88 Gotham letters 13 Move back and 1 Mules or clogs 39 One with con· 89 Fathera forth 8 Particle fldentlallnfo 70 Lets up 21 Present 10 Moiety 41 lkhnaton was 25 Latvian city 14 Religious one DOWN 26 Touched literature 43 -·fruttl 1 Putaway ground 
15 A Roosevelt 44 Neighborhood compactly 27 Hokkaldo 
18 USSR river 48 Skin 2 Pueblo dweller native 
17 "Lakme"or '47 -Buena 3 City on the Oka "Lulu" 49 Deny 4 Part of JEC 
18 Standard 51 Too-handle 5 Private eye of 28 Dramatls 
19 Pro-53 Chatters on fiction personae 
20 Indecisive and on 6 -as a fiddle 29 Frivolous 
22 Insipid one 55 Form of self· 7 "The-pine 31 Eng. essayist 
23 Observe defense hewn on ..." 34 Omanlor 
24 Indo-European 58 Too soft Yemeni 
28 Ger. cathedral 82 "-saw Elba" 8 Nuncupative 36 Murray and city 63 Lily plant 9 Hungarian West 30 Bit of para ley 64 Harden 10 Barrel organ 37 Adriatic wind 32 Chin. river 65 Oodles 11 Macaw 38 Goodness! 33 Noted censor 66 Fluff 12 Language of 40 Cut back In a 
of yore 67 VIolinist's Item old way 
42 Kerchief 54 Encourages 45 Massey or 55 Kerror Chandler Simmons 48 First family 57 Inter-
member 58 Wlldox 50 Seek to attain 59 Rumple 51 --burly 60 Soft cheese 52 Music hall 61 Longings 
Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 

SANGISHADISUPER
T A C 0 P A R I P R I M A 
0 R A L I N T 0 R E L I C lEADI_E.DlE
-ETE L[RECTED
S I G N E T S U S 0­E M E E R T H I NIP L E 8 T I NA~H E A~R T P E A R SNAG .HEAVE
1-L I I SPARKED 
BEHESTS ASH­A R E. S~l V E R P E R C H
S N A F U Y D R E A U R A 
T E P E E E T 0 N D I E T 
E S S E S R E S T S N E E 
10/8/84 



DARBY'S PLACE 
For Late Night 
NOV.1,2,3 

STUDYSNACKS 
Tickets on Sale NOW 
Located in the 

SAB Record Store BasementofLaFonune 

Presale: $4.00 
At Door: $5.00 




-
----..... 

Monday, October 8, 1984 -page 12




SRorts 

Kosar's arm, Highsmith's four TD's drop Irish 
Notre Dame loses to Miami for the third time in four years, 31-13, in rain 
By MIKE SULLIVAN supposed to be looking for Miami Sports Editor blood. ''I'm very proud of our football 
At Friday's pep rally, one Notre team," said Miami's first-year head Dame football player started the coach Jimmy Johnson. "They really chant, "Kill Miami." Another said he hung in there when it counted. was going to "separate somebody's "We've gone halfway through our shoulder." season and we've already beaten 
On Saturday night, however, Purdue, Auburn and now Notre things did not go as planned. Maybe Dame all on the road. We've got a lot the players realized the moral im­of football to play still, but I feel plications of their threats, but the we're back on track." only thing that was killed was Notre The Hurricanes put Notre Dame Dame's hopes ofa national title. And away for good by dominating the the only thing that was separated second half on both offense and was Notre Dame's name from the defense. lbey held the Irish offense rest ofthe Top Twenty list. to 46 yards in the half, while gaining 
The Hurricanes, on the strength of 252 yards themselves. 'Ibey were so quarterback Bernie Kosar's arm and much in control, in fact, that fullback Alonzo Highsmith's four Johnson decided to add insult to in­touchdowns, gained control of the jury by throwing long in the final game in the second halfand beat the tninutes of the game. Irish for the third time in four years, "We took charge offensively in 31-13. the second half," said Johnson. 
The Irish loss came before the "After ourfumble at the beginning of usual sellout crowd of 59,075 pa­the half, our defense rose to the oc­
trons at Notre Dame Stadium, nearly casion to keep them out of the end all ofwhom had waited anxiously to zone. From that time, the game was 
Mark Brooks (35) and bis Notre Dame 

teammates again bad trouble getting tbe ground netted only 53 yards rushing to tbe Hurricanes' game going Saturday as tbe Irlsb fell to Miami, 31-149. Mike Sullivan gives an account oftbe game at see Notre Dame repay its guests for ours." 13, in tbe rain at Notre Dame Stadium. Tbe /rlsb rlgbt. 
last year's embarrassing 20-0 loss on Johnson was referring to national television. Not only were Highsmith's fumble that Notre 
Dame recovered on the Miami 20­not get their revenge, but they had yard line. Already leading 10-7 after to endure a steady rain that began a hard-fought first half, the Irish ap­almost immediately after Miami's peared to be in an ideal situation to 

Beuerlein suffers bruised shoulder they disappointed that the Irish did 

Kosar wins battle of quarterbacks 

first touchdown early in the second move out to a good lead. Two Allen By LARRY BURKE fense to just seven points, and Beuerlein became painfully aware 
quarter. Judging from the amount of Pinkett runs appeared to give Notre Sports Writer allowed the explosive Kosar just 59 that the pain was not about to 
booing at the end ofthe game, there Dame a first down inside the 10, but yards passing. A John Carney field subside. That spelled trouble for the foul on Mark
were more than a few spectators a personal penaltyThe game was billed as a chance goal two tninutes into the second Irish because, while the Miami of­
angry because the Irish performance Brooks during the play moved the for revenge -an opportunity for half put Notre Dame up 13-7, but fense was beginnning to put some 

did not live up to their hopes. ball back out beyond the 20. Unable Notre Dame to atone for the em­from then on it was Kosar and the points up on the board in the second 
Regardless of what the fans had to move the ball, the Irish settled on harassment it had suffered at the Hurricane offense that stole the Beuerlein encountering
half, was expected, though, Miami showed a 39-yard John Carney field goal
hands ofthe Miatni Hurricanes in the show. great difficulty throwing the long 

why it is the defending national which gave Notre Dame a 13-7 lead. Orange Bowl last year. For Beuerlein, however, the prob­pass because of the pain in his 
champion and why, despite two At the time, the importance ofthe For Irish quarterbackSteve Beuer­lems began a little earlier. Midway shoulder. 
losses, should be very close to the series did not appear to be great.
lein, Saturday's game was something through the seco.nd quarter, with "When I rolled out on the option 

Top Ten when the polls come out However, the Miatni defense's per­more. It was another chance to go Miatni leading 7-0, the Irish quarter­play, the cornerback just ran right 
this week. The Hurricanes came into formance sparked life into the UM head-to-head with Hurricane signal­back ran the run/pass option on a through my shoulder," said Beuer­
charged-up South Bend and wore offense that was held in check for caller Bernie Kosar. It was an oppor­first down play from the Miatni 49­
see KOSAR, page 8 down an Irish squad that was most of the first half. 
tunity for Beuerlein to prove that he yard line. Beuerlein chose to keep 

Beginningfrom their own 21-yard is capable of matching the more­the ball rather than pitch to tailback 
line, the Hurricanes quickly beganheralded Kosar pass-for-pass. Allen Pinkett, and picked up six 
to take control of the game. Kosar, But as is so often the case in the yards. A hit by Hurricane roverback 
who had been held to I 0-of-1 5 pass­world of Notre Dame football, not Selwyn Brown made those yards es­
ing for just 59 yards in the first half, everything went according to plan pecially costly, however, as Beuer­
hit Eddie Brown across the middle on Saturday. lein suffered a bruised shoulder on 
for the third of his game-high seven Things started out well for the the play. 
catches~ The play netted 24 yardsIrish. In the first halfthe Notre Dame The injury did not seem serious at 
and got the Miami offense rolling. defense held the potent Miami of-the time, but as the game wore on, 
After Brown's catch, the Hur­ricanes began mixing up running and passing plays, taking advantage 


Irish win Notre Dame 

of Notre Dame's nickel defense that had been very effective in the first half. Twelve plays later, Highsmith scored his second touchdown ofthe game by sweeping around the right By NICK SCHRANTZ 24:29.2, while freshman Dan Garrett side of the ND defense on a fourth­Sports Writer followed in 15th at 24:33.4. Sopho­and-goal play from inside the one. 
more Mike Collins was close behind Not only had the Hurricanes taken 
Teamwork, a word not often used with a time of 24:35.4, good for 17th the lead, but they had also kept the in describing an individual sport like place. Co-captain Jim Tyler rounded Irish defense on the field for more running, was the key to the Notre out the scoring for the Irish with a than six minutes straight. Dame cross-country team's success 23rd-place time of Z4:38.3. Matters did not improve for the in the Notre Dame Invitational Co-captain Bill Courtney, while Notre Dame defense when the of­Friday. The Irish compiled only 77 not counting in the Irish scoring, fense could not make a first down points as they finished first in an IS­placed 35th with a time of 24:51.0, after Chris Smith's nine-yard run on team field which included 12th­which was good enough to displace 

Invite with teamwork 
first down. Mike Viracola was called 

ranked Michigan and other top scoring runners from other schools. in to kick and his 25-yard punt allowed Miami to get good field po­
schools. Junior John Magill wound up 79th Southeast Missouri State came with a time of 2 5:26.6. sition. The tired and injury-plagued closest to Notre Dame, but it Mike Vanatta of Southeast Mis­defensive squad was forced back on finished far back with asecond-place souri State claimed individual the field again, as Kosar, Highsmith total of II 5 points. Malone College honors with a time of 24:02.7. and company went right back to wound up in third with I37 points Vanatta surged ahead of Chris work. Ten plays later, Highsmith and Edinboro College had a fourth­Brewster of Michigan in the final 30 scored for the third time and the place total of I46. Michigan finished yards to secure the victory. Irish were finished. a disappointing sixth with I66 Brewster, who slowed down once "In the second half, we really 
points, while Illinois State, another he realized he was beaten, finished showed the capabilities of our of­nationally-recognized team, accum­with a second-place time of 24:05.3. fense," said Kosar, who finished the ulated I73 points in ending up Gaetan Girard of Bowling Green day with impressive numbers ( 20­seventh. took third place with a time of of-29, 205 yards, two touchdowns). Notre Dame's victory can be at· 24:08.9. "We showed that we aren't a one· or tributed to the incredible consis­For the third meet in a row, the two-man offense. We knew when we
Defensive lineman Wally Kleine (96) fought a number ofobsta­
tency ofits five scoring runners. Tim Irish proved that the most important were behind that we'd have to be pa­
cles in Saturday's game wttb Miami: tbe rain, being beld as be is in 
Cannon finished first for the Irish ingredient for a successful cross-tient, and that was the key to our of­
tbis play, and the scrambling of Hurricane quarterback Bernie 
with a lOth-place time of 24:25.4. 

see TEAMWORK, page 9 Kosar. Larry Burke expands on tbe scrambling ofKosar in bis story see MIAMI, page 10
Senior Ed Wil\enbrink was 12th at 
at upper left. 






