r-
Genesis-page 7 

VOL XVIII, NO. 74 the imkp~.·mlent ~tw.knt m·w~paper ..,en ing notre dame and ~aint mary\ WEDNESDAY,JANUARY 25, I~ 

Info net phone system bugs many students 
By TIM GIANOTTI and MARK POTTER problems with the system to either StaffReporters lnfonet directly, Humms, or the In­
Student frustation over faulty fonet representative, who will be telephone service has been on the stationed full time on campus. In­rise since the installation ofpushbut· fonet will be constantly monitoring ton phones and the Infonet network­trafffic on the system. They have the ing service. capability to add lines as well as pin­
Complaints of excessive static, point problems. ov~.·rlapping conversations on the Humms predicted that it would same line, complete system shut· be "a question of weeks" before the down. inability to complete long dis· system settles down and kinks tance call~ and a spattering of would be worked out. He and Mason various otn& gripes have accom­agreed that there is reason to be op­panied the transition to the new timistic. phone system. Currently, approximately 5,000 
Thomas Mason, vice-president of students on campus subscribe to the 
business affairs. described this as a lnfonet service. Another thousand "debugging period" for the new subscribe to the saverline system. facilities. "There are going to be Humms expects at least a few bugs ...when you are dealing with hundred more students to be sig: high-tech equipment of that mag· ning up with lnfonet in the near nitude and that complexity," said future. 
Mason. The new system was installed Tht· <>bserver/P2ul Kramer Assistant to the Comptroller Ed primarily due to the AT&T breakup Humms agrees with Mason. He says and the need to renovate the dated 
Lake. Perhaps the two were encouraged by yesterday's
that the difficulties thus far have telephone system. Out of more than 
gradualZY warming weather. 
been the result of minor malfunc­I 0 competing bids, lnfonet was tions. Overall problems with the selected for their "complete" new system have been routine ones package, involving a headquarters in that could be expected from any the basement of the Memorial new system. Ubrary. This local centralization "Ifit wasn't bad enough just to try enables the network to handle stu­

Law students hunger for marathon 
to install a new telephone system, dents' calls directly and to route we have installed a new computer," them in the most efficient manner, By TOM POWERS Tonight, the law students are evening they will all eat a small pizza 
explained Mason. The computer is according to Humms. StaffReporter sponsoring a IOK (calorie) run from Dominoe's Pizza.
tied into the system and has been Infonet, Inc., is a corporation are where approximately thirty law stu· The contest is open only to law
responsible for some of the system's based in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Al­Notre Dame law students 
dents will compete to eat a mini­students and, according to one ofmalfunctions. "It still has some bugs though it is doing business in In­training for their own kind ofolym­mum of I0,000 calories. They will the organizers, Don Hubbard, "It'sto be worked out," added Mason. diana, it is not registered as an out of pics these days, only the training travel around to various eating es­just a way for the law students toBoth Mason and Humms en· state corporation, according to the camp is not an athletic field, but a as relax and release a little tension."
courage students to report their Indiana Secretary ofState's office. dinner table. tablisments on campus and eat much as they possibly can at each Hubbard says that the contestants designated place. have been training for the event by At 5 p.m. the contestants will eating a lot more food than they nor·

ND professor helps Jesse Jackson 
meet at the Law School lounge. They mally do. The entire contest will will first travel to the Oak Room Cafe cost each person about $1 0 for the where they will be expected to eat food. The winner will be honored

put name on South Bend ballot 
at least two platefuls of spaghetti. with a permanent trophy for his ef­

From there they travel to the Huddle forts. ByJOE INCARDONA volved with the Rainbow Coalition man, to his image as a world leader, to eat a double-dip ice crt earn cone, The idea originally came from the StaffReporter and its nationwide efforts to win and to his stature as a successful then to the A.C.C. (Notre Dame vs. members ofthe Law Students Bar As­
Jackson the nomination because he negotiator in various crises," said sociation on campus. Other upcom­
Davidson basketball game) for a Democratic presidential hopeful feels that President Reagan's policies Scott. "One would wonder how large coke and another double-dip ing events that the association will Jesse Jackson became the first can­are not in the interest of the poor, Jackson would do in a hostage or ter­cone. Each individual contestant sponsor are the Law Bowl, the I 00­rorist situation, and I think he has
didate from either party to get his women, and a lot ofminority groups will then drink a full pitcher of beer Days Party, the Recall Election, and a 
name on the primary ballot for the which have been "locked out of the partly answered that." at the Senior Bar, and to cap off the beach party. South Bend area last week -thanks political process." to the efforts of people like Dr. Scott acts as a liaison between the However, Scott said that many Joseph Scott, Notre Dame professor Coalition here and the press, han­political observers are missing the ofsociology. dling all correspondence which point ofJackson's candidacy for the 
Campus Ministry's Schlaver 

Scott is the publicity chairman for goes from the local chapter to presidency. He describes the work the Third District Rainbow Coali­outside sources. of the Rainbow Coalition as a three­

moves to Ave Maria Press 

tion, Jackson's official campaign or­"There are a lot of people who pronged attack, the emphasis of ganization here. belong to the Rainbow Coalition, or which is to do more than try to win 
ByJOE MERCHANT gregation of the Holy Cross in 196.3

"What has to happen is that each who are like the people I've Jackson the nomination. 
after three years of study at Notre

Congressional district in the state described, namely the poor, "The first order of business, News Staff Dame. He made his first religious
has to have a minimum of 500 regis­minorities and women, who want to whether Jackson wins or not, is to Father David Schlaver, director of vows in 1964, graduated from Notre
tered voters sign a petition saying send a message to the Democratic get as many unregistered Democrats Dame in 1966, and was later or­
they want a particular candidate on Party," said Scott. "I think that even registered as possible, so that Campus Ministry, has been ap· pointed editor and publisher of Ave dained there in 1971. 
the ballot," said Scott. "So in the ifJackson doesn't win the primary, whoever the nominee is, that person Maria Press, Notre Dame's Catholic He worked as an assistant editor at
Third District, which covers South he will get a significant number of will benefit from all of these addi­Bend, we were able to secure more votes, which will be a message to the tional voters on the rolls," said Scott. printing house. He succeeds Father Ave Maria during his theology John Reedy, who died December 2. studies in Washington, D.C. and at
than 500 valid signatures in about a Democratic Party leadership that "The second order, it seems to ten-day period." they want their interests to be me, would be to highlight the plight 
The announcement was made in Notre Dame. He assumed his South Bend today by Father Richard present position as Director of

Scott explained that he got in-represented." of the poor, blacks and other Warner, provincial superior of the Campus Ministry at Notre Dame in
Scott also said that Jackson could minorities, women, the aged, and others who have been hurt by Indiana Province of Holy Cross. He the summer of 198I.
still play a major role in determining Cunningham is a graduate ofSien­
the winner of the Democratic Reaganomics. And the third function also announced that Frank Cunnin­nomination even if he doesn't win it of our efforts, which I think a lot of 
gham, present Managing Editor at na College and holds a Master ofArts Degree from St. Michael's College in

himself. people don't understand, is to or­the press, has been appointed General Manager. Winooski. Vermont. Cunningham
"Ifhe gets enough delegate votes, ganize the machinery that will be has extensive experience in publish­
then Jackson will be able to operate used this spring to get people Established in 1865 by the priests 
and brothers of Holy Cross, Ave ing, having worked as a reporter and

as a power broker at the national elected to local and state offices, Maria Press is one ofthe oldest Cath­editor for several newspapers and
convention. because he might be whetherJackson wins or not." the swing vote between, say, Scott also emphasized Jackson's olic publishing houses in America. magazines. 
desire to maintain unity within the Ave Maria operates aprinting facility Although llniversity officialsMondale and Glenn," said Scott. 

refused to speculate on Schlaver's

Scott acknowledges that Jackson's Democratic Party. "Jackson has said which serves the printing needs of replacement Campus
trip to Syria and subsequent freeing that ifhe should not win the nomina­the publishing division of the llni· at Ministry, 
Father Daniel]enky, rector ofSacred

of Lt. Robert Goodmen has had a tion, he's definitely going to stay versity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. and ofthe Congrega­Heart Church, is viewed as his prob­
positive impact on the Jackson cam· within the Democratic Party and be 
tion of Holy Cross. able successor. jenky declined com­

paign. "It obviously contributed 
see SCOTT, page 4 
Schlaver, 41, entered the Con-ment on the matter yesterday.

positivelv to his image as a states· 
"' .. 



Wednesday,)anuary 25, 1983-page 2
The Observer 


In Brief 
Dr. Thomas Bergin, dean of continuing educa­
tion at Notre Dame, has been appointed chairman ofa national task force on "The Role of Institutional Representatives" by the Univer­sity Continuing Edut.·ation Association in Washington, D.C. The task force of six distinguished educators will begin a year-long study of the association's prioritic:s and the relationship with the educational institutions at a Notrt.· Dame meeting scheduled for February 13 and 
I ·t-The Obserr•er 

He's been blasted by the media biggies, but former Prt.·sitknt jimmy Carter showed recently that he still has a thin skin. When the student newspaper at Emory University, where Carter is 11 visiting professor, calkd him "cowardly" for not taking a stand on a !()(:a! controversy, Carter immediately asked for a meeting with the t.'tlitor. The criticism came in an Emory Wheel editorial on construc­tion of a roadway out to the new Carter Library. An early design. which would have sent a superhighway through local ncighbor­ho()(h, sparknl local protests. A smallc:r. four-lane road is now planned. Cartt.·r !Old editor Frc:d Diamond and managing editor Martha Evans he felt "personal-type attacks" were "nnmterprodut.·tive" and worked against the "harmonious relation­ships" ht.· says he enjoys at Emory. Carter also denied not taking a stand on the roadway, saying he favors a road but not a specific design. lie didn't retract the editorial, but Diamond says he accepts Cartt.·r's darifkation.-The Observer 
The University will provide free transporta­
tion to the Notre Dame/Purdue game at the Indiana Hoosier Stadium in Indianapolis Sept. H. This was announced by Director of Student Activitks james McDonnell, who is in charge of arranging the transportation, at the Hall President's Council meeting last night in Walsh Hall. McDonnell then asked for the president's help in determining tht.· number of people who would use the transporta­tion. "since the game is designated as a home game, the University feels compelled to provide free transportation," McDonnell said. The possibility of chartering a train is being considered, but most students will make the three hour trip by bus. Also at the meeting, Keenan Hall announced that tickets for the Keenan Hall Revue will be distributed this Sunday. The show will be on Feb. I, 3, and 4. Jim Fugett, co-chairperson ofthe Buchanan Winter Festival in Buchanan, Mich., gave hall presidents information about the event. The festival will be held from Fcb.3-S and will include a snow shoe relay race, cardboard box races and a Las Vegas Casino night. -The Observer 
America's television fixation reached an all­
time high in 1983, with average daily viewing per household break­ing the seven-hour mark. A. C. Nielsen's numbers revealed that averagc tt:lcvision watching per home incrcased 14 minutes over 1982's tecord. It was a ycar that fcatured the top-rated "M-A-S-H" finale, two reco t rd ABC miniseries, increased cable use and one con­troversial survey sayin~ot viewers were watching more but paying less attention. This was the sixth straight year of record-setting viewing, and tht.· 14-minute increase tic:d 1964 for the biggest rise ever. Net­work ratings stabilized after a period of decline, while overall viewing for independent and cable stations increased. Viewing for 1983 was up cvery month, except for january, although the seven hour, 58 minute consumption level for january 1983 turned out to be the year's highest monthly average. In comparison, january 1982 had an average of seven hours, 47 minutes. February, another cold month when the nation hibernates around the TV sct, ranked second in 1985 with an average of seven hours, 33 minutes. The low con­
sumption level, six hours, 2:\ minutes, came in both june and July. Viewing was up ti1r all age groups, except children 2-11, said Niel­sen. -AP 
Of Interest 
Saint Mary's students. faculty, and staffwiil be able to purdlast.· Apple Macintosh computers for the same discounted price offt.-rnl to Notrl· Dame studt.·nts. Ril'hard Spencer, assistant provost ti1r t·omptning, said yesterday that Apple Computers will allow thl· l'nivnsity to open the salt.-of the Macintosh personal com­putt.·rs to Saint Mary's. The Collcgt.·, however. will not become a mt.·mht.·r of tht.· Appk Ilniversity Consortium. a group of 24 schools aimed at dt.·vdoping new applications for <:omputers in education. 
-The Obserr•er 


Weather 
Partly cloudy today. Highs in the mid to upper 30s. Con­sidcrabk cloudiness tonight with .~0 percent chance of light snow. Lows in thc upper 20s. Cloudy, chance for light rain or snow tomor­row. Highs in upper :lOs. -AP 
[_ 

How 'bout them Apples? 



So you've got an empty space on your desk that is just crying to be used for the latest in microcomputer tech­nology? The new Macintosh personal computer from Apple could dry those tears, but the price for the system -even with the substantial discount offered to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students -merits a closer look at what one gets for his money. 
According to economics professor William Davisson, 
students will be able to walk away with a Macintosh for 
S 1.090. This base price includes the keyboard, a high resolution screen, one disk drive, some :1 1/2 inch dis­kettes and the infamous "mouse." A dot-matrix printer, almost a necessity, gocs for S404, so by the time you have that desk corner covered, your bank account will have been debited a grand total of $1 S16.89, plus tax. That's not bad, considering that regular retail buyers will pay more than twice that. Even the IBM PC costs 
S2,900 with the current University discount. 
Davisson says he was "very favorably impressed" by the new system, but he adds that he only used the com­puter for thirty minutes in help in the preparation ofwork? The College ofArts and Letters is planning to use the computers extensively, and other colleges are developing applications. In addi­tion, initial configurations for a campus computer net­work arc expected by late summer or early next year. 
Second, if a student is not using a microprocessor in courses, would the other functions -word processing or graphics, for example -justify the cost? 
Third, the student should ask himse t If if he actually wants to be computer literate. Is that important? 
Spencer holds no reserva­
tions about his answer to the 
last question. In his view. 

California. He has two 
Macintoshes on order. and 
he says until he receives and 
tests them that he would not 
be able to judge the com­
puter's merits. 
However, "if it lives up to 

its potential, it will be a fan­
tastic unit," he says. 
Richard Spencer, assistant provost for computing, believes the Macintosh is "probably the leader right now" in the personal com­puter market. "It's the knowledge of the operation 
of a microcomputer is vital 
because the machine has 
begun to enter all facets of life, both at. ,home and at work. "It wo~fd be difficult to be in the businessJworld without knowing something about a microcomputer," he believes. 
But it's the simplicity of the new Apple systems that seems to have Spencer sold. "Why become a computer expert?" he asks. "You 

friendliest computer I've ever seen. You could probably use it without even opening a book." 
Hut for those who think that the Macintosh is not something for serious users who would just as soon not use a hand-held rodent, let it be known that the unit boasts a 32 bit processor, the largest used in personal computers. Apple's newest aiso comes with 128K of RAM ( Applc will expand this to 512K by the middle of the year) and 64K ofROM. 
"One hundred fifty companies are writing software for the Mac, and Microsoft (a software leader) has com­mitted 50 percent of its resources to developing software for the new computer. Their view is that it will be around for awhile," says Spencer. 
Yet Davisson views the system a little more cautious­ly. "If they (the companies) do a good job, yes. If they don't, forget it," he says. 
Spencer suggests students ask themselves three ques­tions to determine whether the computer is worth the expense. First, ifa computer is part ofa course, will it 
shouldn't have to know programming. Our en­thusiasm for the Macintosh 
is that it's friendly; it's an adjunct to what a person does, a tool that helps the person do his job, like a calculator or a telephone. Apple calls them bicycles of the mind." 
Fifteen hundred dollars seems expensive for a bicycle, too, but both men advise students to wait and try the computer when it arrives at the new computer store in approximately three weeks. "It's definitely worth checking into," says Davisson. 
:-****************t
*
~  Buy  * 
it  ,..  
~ it• itit  Observer classifieds  :** : ~  


f--The_Obseryer_ 
Today's Observer was produced by: 
Production Consultant ........Stc:ve Foster Design Bclltor.........................Susan O'Hara Design Staff....... )ennie, Kathken, Karen. Dorothy. and Camille 
TJ•pesetters .... Mkhelle,Jennikr. and Tnl 
News Editor................. .......Jc:ff Barrington 
Copy l:"c/ltor............................. Kevin Bing<:r 
Sports C:opy Editor............... Mike and Phil 
Features Copy Eclitor .............)crry Youn11 Features Layout ....... Mary llcaly ND Dt~!' Editor ... ............. Barbara Stevens Acl Design............ .. . .... llill O'Brien Photographer........ ................. Paul Cifardli 
The Obeerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatton penods The O~r IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary·s College Subscriptions may be purchased for $~5 per year ($15 per semester) by wrrtmg The O~r. P 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndtana 46556 
The O.,_,er IS a member of The Aaaoclllted PreM. All reproductton rights are reserved 


Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9(XX) 121 South Niles South Bend 


The Observer Wednesday,January 25, 1983-page 3 
Reagan to endorse space station 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President 
Reagan will endorse in his State of 
the Union speech tonight a manned 
orbiting station as the cornerstone 
of his Nation's Future In Space, 
government sources reported Tues­
day. 
The station, to be operational ear­ly in the next decade, would signal a permanent U.S. presence in space and could expand to such objectives as a manned lunar base and expedi­tions to Mars, said the sources, who asked to remain anonymous. 
There was no comment from the White House or the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion. However, NASA has scheduled a news briefing tomorrow on "State of the Union proposals." 
White House Science Adviser 
George A. Keyworth said recently 
that the p .resident wants to 
"recapture the vision ofApollo" and 
maintain U.S. leadership in space at a 
time when the Soviet Union is pursu­
ing ambitious space plans. 
A bold commitment to a long­range program centered on a space s t tation would be the first major space declaration by the United States since President Kennedv declared in I 961 that an America~ should land on the Moon before the end ofthat decade. 
As a down payment on the $8 bil­lion station, Reagan is asking for about $I 50 million in his proposed 


Pope appoints bishop for Boston 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Pope John Paul II, starting a series of appointments to reshape the U.S. catholic Church, reached into rural Missouri yester­day to find a new bishop for Boston: Bernard Law, orthodox in doctrine but active in relations between races and faiths. 
Law, 52, bishop of 52,000 Cat­holics in the Springfield-Cape Girar­deau diocese in the largely Protestant cattle and farm country of the Missouri Ozarks, was named spiritual leader of the nation's third­largest Catholic archdiocese. He succeeds Cardinal Humberto Medeiros, who died last fall. 
A Harvard graduate, Law made his mark as a civil rights leader in Missis­sippi in the 1960s and has been in 
the  forefront  of  the  Catholic  
church's efforts to  embrace  Epis­ 
copal priests.  

With his ability to speak Spanish, Law is expected to help unify the blacks, Hispanics, Irish and Italians who make up the bulk of 2 million Catholics in the Boston archdiocese. 
"While the archdiocese is my primary responsibility, I look for­ward to working with the leaders of other Christian communities, Jewish religious leaders, and public officials ofthe Boston area as togeth­er we serve the common good," Law said. 
Asked how he wants to be 
received in Boston, Law replied: "I 
come as a man offaith, a deep faith. I 
also come as a man of hope. I know 
it's 1984, but I think George Orwell 
was wrong." Plans call for his instal­
lation in Boston's Cathedral of the 
Holy Cross on March 23. 
Medeiros had spoken quietly but firmly for social and racial justice, and led opposition to the violence against school busing in Boston. During his 13-year tenure, Medeiros also paid offpart ofthe reported $42 million debt ofthe diocese by selling 

JUST OPENED!!! 
A Sportswear store geared for 
N.D. -S.M.C. Students 

TRADE-IN ALLOWANCE! 
BRING US YOUR OLD ATHLETIC SHOE AND WE'll GIVE YOU A 116 TRADE-IN ALLOWANCE ON ANY NEW PAIR SHOES WE HAVE IN STOCK 



JANUARY ONLY 
LIMIT 1 USED PAIR FOiR ONE NEW PAl 
We carry a full line of Notre Dame & SMC sportswear. Stop in and see our new, truly unique line of N.D.· S.M.C. clothing. 

•Nike 
Quality •Adidas 
merchandise •Converse •Tiger •Footjoy 

the 
Athlete's


Foot 

Across fron"i Ute King's Cellar (S. Bend Ave.) 
277-7284 
1635 EDISON 
hears: MON. THIU SAT. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
fiscal 1985 budget, which goes to Congress Feb. 1, the sources said. 
Preliminary 1985 spending projections given earlier this month to Republican Congressmen by Budget Director David Stockman show the administration wants to add $6 billion to NASA's budget over the next five years, principally for developing a station. That is a large increase for an agency whose budget has been between $6 billion and $7 billion annually and which has seen some lean y .ears since the glory days of the Apollo moon flights. 
The sources said Reagan, in his speech, will urge Congress to sup­port a station as a means of moving the United States ahead commercial­ly and technologicaly in space. 


surplus property. "If people were expecting a con-1 scrvative, they didn't get one. Ifthey were expecting a highly liberal one they didn't get one," said Monsignor Francis Lally, an official of the Na­tional Conference of Catholic Bis­hops in Washington who knows Law personally. 

Chinese professor adjusts to shift in lifestyle with move to Indiana 
ByJANE KRAVCIK  Zhang has noticed several dif­ fercnt, said Zhang. "There arc  
StaffReporter  ferences between Notre Dame and  classes of about 20 students who  
Chinese students. "Notre Dame stu­ stay together in one classroom for  
The first week on campus is tough  dents are more active in class.  four years. There is a classroom i  
for any new professor. but especially  Chinese students are shyer. They  which each student has a desk. The  
if that professor is from the People's  will wait until after class to meet  students only return to the dor·  
Republic ofChina.  with a professor one on one to ask a  mitory to sleep." About 25 per­ 
Zhang is teaching a beginning  question while students here will  cent of the high school graduates in  
Chinese course this semester to  ask during class."  China go on to government financed  
prepare Notre Dame students for a  "Students here dress in their own  universities such as Tianjin. Accep­ 
summer program at the Tianjin  style," he continued. "Chinese stu­ tance is based upon entrance exams,  
Foreign Language Institute in Tian­ dents dress in a relatively unified  high school grades and behavioral  
jin, China (See related story below).  way. In the past two or three years  record.  
He is vice-chairman of the English  they have begun to dress in their  
department at the institute.  own W'af,''{l(,fflch t~g&btf~~1r_.,.,._ {Jpon graduation, most students  
Calling Notre Dame students  creates variance and liveliness."  are assigned jobs by .the school. The  
"wonderful, cooperative and  Chinese students have six days of  rest go on to graduate studies in  
diligent," Zhang commented, "I  classes each week so they do not  China or abroad. "There is much less  
have long heard ofthis school, that it  have as much free time as American  variance open to students in China.  
had a high academic reputation and  students do. When they do have  This can be good and bad. There is  
was very friendly. I have this same  time, according to Zhang, they go to  less trouble but if everything is ar­ 
impression now that I have been  the movies or the theatre. "Most stu­ ranged, students can become de­ 
here. The whole environment  dents at the institute arc from Tian­ pendent.," Zhang said.  
makes you feel comfortable and not  jin so they go home every  English is quickly becoming a  
uneasy," he said.  weekend," he said.  very popular academic subject in  
Zhang also studied and taught at  China. It is offered in primary and  
Zhang is optimistic about the  an Australian university. "American  secondary schools in addition to  
summer program being offered this  students arc closer to Chinese stu­ universities. "There arc a fair num­ 
summer by Notre Dame. He said,"it  dents than Australian students be­ ber of people who already know  
will deepen the friendship between  cause they are more conservative. It  E nglish and the number is sharply  
the two people. Right now, the  is easier for me to become ac- increasing." Zhang said, noting that  
Chinese have a good impression of  customcd to Notre Dame than  English is important for the cultural  
Americans. I hope that the relation­ Australia," he said.  relations between the United States  
ship will be improved day by day."  Classes at Tianjin arc also dif­ and China.  


ND plans study program in China 
ByJANE KRAVCIK going to China be enrolled in the StaffReporter beginning Chinese course being of­fered this semester, proficiency in 
Notre Dame students will have Chinese is not absolutely necessary. the opportunity for the first time to The trip will cost about $2,600. Stu­spend eight weeks in China this sum­dents can earn between six and nine mer under a new foreign study credit hours while in China. program offered by the University. 
The program will involve six Charles credits Provost Timothy weeks ofclasses in Chinese language O'Meara with helping get the and culture, and two weeks oftravel program offthe ground. O'Meara has in China. The classes will take place shown great interest in such a at the Tianjin Foreign Language In­program since travelling to China stitute. Tianjin is about 1.5 hours himself, according to Charles. from Peking. 
Professor Peter Moody of the 
Students will travel to the Great Notre Dame government depart­Wall of China, Peking and Shanghai, ment will accompany the group as according to Doctor Isabel Charles, their on-site director. He feels that director of Foreign Study Programs. there are many reasons to visit 
Any student or faculty member is China. "Obviously, it depends on eligible for the program which will your personal taste and interest. It is be from mid-June until the begin­the largest country in the world and ning ofAugust. Chinese is the most widely spoken 
Although it is suggested that those language. It is different from the west but compatible. Students going rherc should see it as an adventure 
•norc than a vacation," he said. 
Moody said increased tensions be­tween the United States and China probably would not affect the program: "Cultural exchanges have been affected in the past but academic exchanges arc not usually affected because the Chinese feel that they benefit also." 
Senior psychology major Anne Pfister is one student who plans to participate in the program. "I went to Innsbruck my sophomore year and I was taken by a traveling spirit. I 
want  to  experience  an  eastern  
culture  as  opposed to  a European  
culture."  

A meeting for those interested in participating in the program will be held Wednesday, Jan. 25 at 7 p.m. in room 420 of the Administration Building. 
The Observer 

Wednesday, January 25, 1983-page 4 


Eastern Airlines cited for safety violations 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A government safety board yesterday finished its probe of last May's near-ditching in­to the Atlantic ofan Eastern Airlines jumbo jet, faulting the airline and federal officials for failing to uncover and correct serious maintenance lapses. 
The National Transportation Safety Board said Federal Aviation Administration inspectors missed errors that led to a dozen cases where engines on Eastern jets had to be cut in flight. The engines lost oil when critical seals were not in­stalled properly or at all. 
Such an oversight occurred in May, causing an Eastern L-1011 jet­liner to lose all three engines and come within minutes of ditching in the ocean. The plane was saved when one ofthe engines was restart· ed. Investigators found that mec­hanics forgot to put the seals on the three failed engines. 
But members of the NTSB at a hearing on the Eastern incident con­cluded Tuesday that the case reflected serious safety monitoring problems at Eastern and at the FAA, which has three full inspectors as­signed to the carrier. 
"We feel it is not simply enough to punish the mechanics involved when we had management people that were not developing a system that would be foolproof," said NTSB chairmanJim Burnett. 
Investigators found Eastern had 12 cases between September 1981 and last May where engines were cut in flight because of a loss of oil traced to problems with the seals ­so-called "0" rings. 
Still, said board member Vernon Grose. "neither the FAA or Eastern seemed to be concerned right up to May 19H3." Each incident was reported and examined separately, but neither management nor FAA in· spectors considered the problem a pattern requiring changes in main· tenance procedures. 
The board wrote a strongly worded letter Tuesday, rebuking the FAA for not interpreting the separate incidents as a signal ofbroader main· tenance problems and doing some· thing to assure the "o" rings are always installed. 
But after objections by several board members that some ofthe Ian· guage should be changed and that other parts of the letter are filled with "awful rhetoric that confounds the issue," the board put off a final vote on the letter. 
But several board members said the central criticsm of the FAA and Eastern are not in dispute and the NTSB is expected in its final report to call for the FAA to improve its monitoring ofair safety. 
The FAA has inspectors assigned to all carriers, but several safety ex­perts recently questioned whether the agency is doing enough to guard against some carriers ignoring government safety regulations. Several congressmen have called for hiring more inspectors because the administration in the past three years has cut its inspector force by 16 percent and plans more cuts this year. 
Transportaion Secretary Elizabeth Dole last month ordered the FAA to re-examine its safety actiVIties, including inspection and surveil­lance, but contends the agency's in­spector force is adequate. 

sion last night in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel. 

Democrats and Republicans spar over cost of heating bills program 
Associated Press 
St·natc Majority Leader Howard Bakn. R-Tcnn.. has said bipartisan action is necessary to get control of federal spending, particularly in such areas as health and welfare pay· mcnts to individuals. 
But ht· and other congressional kadcrs concede it will be virtually impossible to make any major <.kficit reductions in this election year while Reagan and !louse Speaker 

economic front is the forecast of 
those ... deficits." 
Wright also attacked the ad· ministration's record on education saying, "It is one thing to pray for better schools ..., but of little avail unless we are willing to pay for bet· ter schools." 
He also recommended creating a computerized national job bank in the Labor Department to usc con­stantly updated government statis­tics to keep track of "exactly what jobs are planned to become be waged," he said. "Someone must take the initiative. I would like that someone to be the president of the United States." 
Wright said the president "should publicly propose to the Soviet Union that each of us reduce our military expenditures this year by I 0 per­cent -say S27 billion each." 
He said the money could be put into a fund handled by an impartial international agency and used to care for the world's needy. 
Thomas O'Neill, D·Mass., are at available in just what numbers and odds. in what locations, six months in ad­Ford said, "If you look at those vance." 
continued/rom page 1 

outyear (future) deficits of S170 bil· But his strongest rhetoric was 
lion to S I HO billion, they're scary reserved for an attack on ever­
and somt·thing has to be done about increasing military spending, which supportive," noted Scott. "So none 
them." Wright called a "grotesque misuse of of us see ourselves as working 
Reminded that Reagan oppost·s our God-given treasure." He decried 
against the Democratic Party. We new taxes, Ford said, "I respectfully the costly arms race, adding that the 
see ourselves in fact enhancing the disagree with him. I t·an't justify the cost alone should be sufficient 
possibility that the Democratic kind of deficits they are forecasting inducement for the two countries to 
Party is going to win." for t'alendar and fiscal 19HS. Tht· on· negotiate a solution. 
According to Scott, Jackson's sup­ly dark. ominous cloud on the "But peace, no less than war, must 
porters see the key to such a 

Democrats call budget 'deranged' 
o\lisoclated Press 

WASHINGTON House He urged the GOP-controlled ter schools." 
Majority Leader Jim Wright, in a pre­Senate to endorse House-passed He also recommended creating a 
emptive Demm:ratic strike at Presi· measures for an economk summit ::omputerized national job bank in 
dent Rt·agan's State of the llnion of the president and congressional :he Labor Department to use con­
address, said Tuesday the nation's leaders to produce a plan to cut the _;tantly updated government statis­
priorities art: "cruelly deranged" at projected deficit in half. ics to keep track of "exactly what 
the White llousc, with nsmg St·nate Majority Leader Howard obs are planned to become 
military spt·nding draining human Baker, R-Tenn., has said bipartisan available in just what numbers and 
resources. action is nt·cessary to get control of in what locations, six months in ad­
And former President Gerald Ford federal spending. particularly in vance." 
urgt·d Reagan to strt•tt·h out the such areas as health and welfare pay­But his strongest rhetoric was 
ddcnst· budget and impose nt·w ments to individuals. reserved for an attack on ever­
taxes to stt·m tht· "dark. ominous But he and other congressional increasing military spending, which 
cloud" ofdeficits approaching S200 leaders concede it will be virtually Wright called a "grotesque misuse of 
hill ion for years to come. impossible to make any major deficit our God-given treasure." He decried 
The budget Reagan will send to reductions in this election year the costly arms race, adding that the 
Congress next week is expected to while Reagan and House Speaker cost alone should be sufficient 
call for a boost in Pentagon spending Thomas O'Neill. D-Mass., are at inducement for the two countries to 
of about 1-l percent, with a odds. negotiate a solution. 
projel'tnl fcdnal deficit of! IHO bil· Ford said, "If you look at those 
lion, in fiscal 19HS. beginning Oct. I. outyear (future) dt·ficits of S 1 70 bil· "But peat·e, no less than war, must 
Otlkials say Rt·agan will seek no lion to 51 HO billion, they're scary be waged," he said. "Someone must 
major new taxes. and something has to be done about take the initiative. I would like that 
On tht· eve ofthe annual presiden­tht·m." someone to be the president of the tial addre!ts to Congress, Wright, of Reminded that Reagan opposes United States." Texas, delivered a virtual campaign new taxes, Ford said, "I respectfully Wright said the president "should platform to reverse Reagan policies disagree with him. I can't justify the publicly propose to the Soviet Union "to revive the American dream, to kind of deficits they are forecasting that each of us reduce our military n·new the American spirit. to for calendar and fiscal 198S. The on· expenditures this year by 10 per· rekindle America's faith in our ly dark, ominous cloud on the cent -say S27 billion each." future." economic front is the forecast of He said the money could be put 
"In a world ofdistorted values, the those ... deficits." into a fund handled by an impartial llnited States -whose example Wright also attacked the ad­international agency and used to should be leading the world to ministration's record on education care for the world's needy. 
sanity -begins 1984 with our saying, "It is one thing to pray for He said social aid, not military aid, priorities cruelly deranged," Wright better schools ..., but of little avail should be the key to U.S. policy !>aid. unless we are willing to pay for bet· toward Central America. 
Democratic victory in the surpris· ingly large numbers of those who were eligible to vote but did not par­ticipate in the last presidential elec­tion. 
"We feel that if nationally a very high percentage of the unregistered voters across the nation become registered Democrats, there is no way that the Democrats will lose. be­cause President Reagan won most of the important states in the ll.S. by a very narrow margin," said Scott. "The important point is that the number of unregistered voters in various states would have been the difference in the election. Ifnothing else happens in the jackson can­didacy but to encourage and ac­complish the registration of voters, 

The Department of Theology Announces 
THEO 241 -Women in Theology 
This is a Lecture Series: 7:30pm Center for Soc. Concerns Jan. 26, Feb. 14, March 12, April11 ,May9 
Thdse who wish to follow the series for credit will be responsible for brief_ readings for each and a short paper at the end. Variable credit 
First Lecture "CLOISTER, SALON AND CROSSROADS: THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN JANSEN ISM" 
F. Ellen Weaver Assistant Chairwoman, Dept. of Theology 
'"~' ltl'ursday, January 26 7:30PM Center For Social Concerns 
••• Scott 

then that will be a significant achievement." 
"A lot of people are wondering whether or not Jesse Jackson is going to win, or whetherJesse Jack­son has to win, and yet they lose sight of all the other goals involved in the whole political process," said Scott. "We hope he wins, and we're going to work as if he will win, but we know we won't lose if we regis­ter thousands and thousands of voters -we won't lose the whole war. we might just lose one battle." 

Scott added that he has contacted key members oftheJackson national campaign in the hopes of arranging for the Presidential candidate to visit the South Bend area "rather soon." 


View~oint 
Wednesday,January 25, 1983-page 5 
Easy solution to car cover-up 
Students who chose to leave their cars 
here over the holidays probably wish 
they hadn't. 
Several students returned to find their cars either surrounded or buried by snow which University-owned plows had left as a Christmas present. 
John Moorman, director of main­tenance, says the cars are "a real problem" for the snowplows, especially after major snowstorms. Moving the cars would take more time than plowing the lots. 
And the quality of the University's equipment does not help matters any. To move' the snow, the plows must gain some speed -something which is hard to do ,when dodging cars. 
Students have their share ofcomplaints as well. Many fly home for break or car­pool to save money, and never think twice about leaving their cars in the lots. 
Many return to find their cars buried, if not damaged by piles of snow. Though security and maintenance are both wil­ling to help students dig out, they may have more important things to do. And some officers are physically unable to shovel snow (it isn't exactly in their job description). 
The easiest solution would be to set 
aside an area in one of the lots a few days 
before finals. With a little publicity, stu­
dents would be more than happy to move 
cars rather than be plowed under. 
Glenn Terry, director of security, says they've tried a similar scheme before without much success. Terry says they'd never achieve 100 percent compliance, and that estimating the number of cars and the size of the space needed would be a chore. 
But it seems the idea would save the departments tiine, ifanything. The plows would be able to clear the lots faster, security would have fewer parking lots to patrol, and nobody would have to help the students dig out after the fact. 
Even if some students didn't comply, they would have no one but themselves to blame. 
So let's hope the University takes some time now to settle the problem. After all, an ounce ofprevention is worth a pound ofcure. 

The Observer Viewpoint Department is seeking questions for its "Campus Comments" feature. Please send suggestions to P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

University students no middle class 

An unscientific survey of a class of 38 stu­Americans face. dents bore out what we have probably all long Furthermore, while this misunderstanding thought -Notre Dame thinks it is a middle­is probably not malicious, its long run implica­class university. tions are rath~r frightening. 
Sixty-five percent of the respondents If most of us think we are middle-class thought that their annual family· incomes Americans, we will naturally come to believe placed them__li~'!h_<:Ee _in the "middle that most ofthe rest ofsociety taccs economic 
situations similar to our own. Facing similar 
realities, they probably have much the same opportunities to develop their talents, and in 1B~ck agai~ particular to advance their educations. This is simply not the case. Most Americans do not have the economic wherewithal that 
Michael Skelly 
class," and the rest classified themselves :S entitles them to the opportmtitics most of us either "upper class" or "rich." Of those who here at N.D. have had. 
said they were in the middle class, only 20 The results ofour blindness are several. We 
percent were correct according to their self­will probably all congratulate ourselves on reported incomes. Middle class, thought the our eventual "success"in American society,respondents, lay from anywhere between 14 attributing it to our hard work and prudentto 160 thousand dollars. 
planning. For if we feel that we are in the If we loosely define middle class as those middle class with the rest ofAmerica, we will households whose incomes make them weal­probably think that others have had oppor·
thier than the bottom 25 percent and poorer tunities similar to our own. 
than the top 25 percent, it is soon evident that This is hardly the case. Most of our peersmost NO students are gravely mistaken about 
haven't had the wealth that is so essential for a their class. good start in our .society's economic race. Actually middle-class incomes range from Some might counter that parental income is 15 to 35 thousand dollars, according to the a fair determinant of opportunites in our 
U.S. Statistical Abstract. Of those in the sur­society. Others might raise serious questions vey who said they were middle class, 80 per­about the ·equality of this situation. cent were actually upper class, that is in the The public policy impact of our false per· top 25 percent ofthe population according to ceptions is also important. Our false-middle income. class consciousness will certainly affect the 
Well. so what, one might ask? Perhaps there way we think about the rest of society, how is nothing wrong with a university composed we believe our economic institutions should primarily of upper-class students. Arguments be structured, and consequently how we could be made both ways, but they are essen­vote. tially tangential to the point. There is, Many views on these matters are certainly however, something very wrong with upper­valid, and this is not to advocate any particular class students mistakenly believing they are view ofpublic policy. typical middle-class Americans. It does seem self-evident. however, that if 
The danger of this sort of economic fiction our society is to be made just inr any sense of is that it represents a gross misunderstanding the term, its upper crust must at least have by Domers of how most Americans live. From some understanding of how the rest of a Christian perspective it shows a patent in­America lives. Otherwise we arc quite likely sensitivity to the simple dollars and cents to remain oblivious to the economic realities problems that 75 perceqL _nf oJir. f~;l)pw -~of our fellow countrymen and their problems. 


Editorial Board  DepartmentManagers  
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic  
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager .....  ......Christopher Ow~·n  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l 'ni­ Executive Editor................................. Paul McGinn  Controller .............  ...Aic:x Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide  Advertising Manager ........................jc:anit: Poole  
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­ News Editor.................................... Mark Worscheh  Circulation Manager.  .......... Mark Miotto  
curately and as objectively as possible. Cnsigned egitor\'!.Js.-represent the opinon of a  Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrsld  .'l~vstems Manager ......... .................Kevin Williams  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Comm~taries, letters. and the Inside Column present  Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan  
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community.  Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher  Founded November 3, 1966  
and the free: expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Features Editor ............................... Sarah Hamilton  
Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower  

The Observer Wednesday, january 25, 1983-p~e 6 

4 
AT OUR ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY CENTER IN SYOSSET, LONG ISLAND, HARRIS/GSSD TOUCHES THE PULSE OF SYSTEMS SUPPORT TECHNOLOGY WORLDWIDE 
WE'LL BE ON CAMPUS
..... 

January 27th 
TO INTERVIEW GRADUATING PROFESSIONALS IN THE FOLLOWING BS/MS/PhD DISCIPLINES 
Electrical Engineering Electrical Technology 
If you are unable to meet with us, we invite graduating professionals in the above disciplines to forward resumes to: 
HARRIS Corporation 
Government Support Systems Division College Relations Office 6801 Jericho Turnpike Syosset, New York 11791 516-364-0400 
........ 
........
........
........
........ 
........
........ 
........
........
........
........
........
........
........
........ 
........
........
........ 
........
........ 
........ 
........
......... 
........
........ 
........
........
........ 
........
........
........
........ 
........
........ 
........
........
........ 
........ 
........
........ 
........ 
........
........
·······" ........
........
........ iiii!!ii 


~~~~~~ 
llllllll 

A career with HARRIS/GSSD means professional growth within one of the most advanced environments in the industry. On a personal level, HARRIS/GSSD is proud to offer professionals a positive, active, and supportive environment where individual potential is 
11111111 fully realized in a "team" approach. 
i~~~~Eii
::::::::
:::::::: 

HARRIS 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 




Showcase I' 
Wednesday, January 25, 1983-page 7 
Miss Manners 

The professor as captain of his class 
by Judith Martin 
D
ear Miss Manners,-I am a college professor and what bothers 
me more than the apathy and laziness ofsome students is their 
classroom manners. Particularly, I am referring to those who chew 
gum in class, those who sit and blow and/orpop the bubbles in front 
of the teacher who is trying to lecture and concentrate on getting a 
message across to those who do care and are in class to learn. 
One day, after having had it happen many times, I asked a young 
lady to please refrain from blowing bubbles and to keep the gum in 
her mouth. When it happened again, I asked her to please remove 
herselffrom the room and deposit the gum in the trash can, or, better 
yet, to remove it before entering the classroom. She acted insulted 
and as if her inalienable rights had been violated. I had embarrassed 
her but had asked her quietly. 
Please say something to remind millions ofstudents that this is very rude and annoying to the teacher. The same goes for chewing candy and drinking pop while the professor is trying to keep their undivided attention. 
Ifthey find the lectures boring, they needn't bother to come to 
class. Sleeping is even better than these annoying mannerisms. Per­
haps I speak for many other professors. 
I've thought about using the tactic that an old high school teacher 
once used. Those who were caught chewinggum in class had to buy 
a package ofpeanuts for everyone in class. But this would not work 
with my student and would be rather childish.Just a gentle reminder 
from you may cause them to think ofthe rightsofothers. At least it's 
worth a try. 
Gentle Reader -Miss Manners will certainly endorse and help 
teach the rule that classroom decorum, for students ofany age, re­quires sitting still with the appearance ofpaying rapt attention and 
refraining from activities, such as eating, drinking or gum chewing, that may distract others. (College students, unlike youngpupils, may claim that they can concentrate best with their eyes closed.) 
Through the high school level, it should be established that the teacher has the right to impose suh restrictionsas part ofthe instruc­tion. 
On the college level, it should be established that attendance of classes is a privilege that may haughtily withdrawn by the professor if, like a judge orsea captain, he finds his not unreasonable standards ofbehavior violated. That should end the nonsense about in­alienable rights. Your student has the inalienable right to behave as she wishes aft you have thrown her out ofclass. 
Dear Miss Manners -My problem lies in the general category of 
whether rules that have become outmoded because their practical 
need no longer exists should continue to be honored in the face of 
declining popular behavior. Is it still necessary for a gentleman al­
ways to walk on the curb side when escorting a lady on the 
sidewalk? 
It is vexing to accompany today's modern woman and duck be­
hind her to change sides at a corner, only to have her odge in the 
same direction, mistaking thinking I plan a change in course. This 
forces me to run to head her off .Or, worse yet, modem women will 
stop conversing in mid-sentence and look wildly about, as if I had 
suddenly flown away, and then sullenly drag their handbag to the 
other side as if it were filled with cement. 
Changing sides is a omplicated maneuver, made more difficult 
without the cooperation ofthe ladies. Perhaps the entire custom 
should be discontinued. 
GentleReader-Perhaps. But let us hear no more about abandon­
ing courtesies simply because there is no pratical need for them. 
That would include most ofthe civilized refinements and kindnesses 
tht comprise our standards ofbest behavior. 
Etiquette. Miss Manners keeps trying to explain, is folk custom. 
When it changes, it generally does so because a certain gesture has 
fallen into disuse to the extent that most people neither practice nor 
understand it. 
The custom ofthe gentlema walking on the outside may, indeed 
he well on its way toward oblivioR. Miss Manners can understad 
your reluctance to continue practicing it with ladies who are only 
bewildered by it. 
But it is not gone altogether. To the many ofus who are familiar 
with it, it remains a charminglittle courtesy, indeed impractical, but 
all the more valuable because it is associated with a disappearing 
grace. On such as Miss Manners, you would be well advised to con­
tinue. 
(c) 1983, United Features Syndicate, Inc. 


Genesis on yet another track 
Michael Rutherford, the band's

Kevin Williams 

G
bassist/guitarist is noticeably incon­features staff writer spicuous (there goes my career as a writer) on the entire ftrst side_ He enesis once again demonstrates 1975, make him the center ofatten­seems content to stay in the back­that there is no status quo tion on this album. In fact, the entire ground for this side an most ofthe where their music is concerned. fist side (with the possible excep­second. Genesis, the group's latest studio l.P, tion of"Second Home by the Sea") The fust song on the second side, represents a departure from any could pass as a Phil Collins solo at­"Illegal Alien", is an up-tempo -al­musical path that may have been es­tempt. most reggae -tune with no tablished by their last two albums, The first cut, "Mama", bears a redeeming artistic qualities, but it Duke ( 1980) andAbacab ( 1981 ). striking resemblance in style and should be a lot offun in concert. But rather than developing a new theme to "I Don't Care Anymore" Everybody (including Michael Rut­sound, Genesis presents a different from Collins'Hello,/Must beGoing. herford) gets a chance to show off. focus on sounds already developed. Banks adds some depth to this and "Taking It All too Hard" is probab­Nearly every song on the album has the following song, "That's All". ly the best song on the album in a parallel on previous Genesis al­"Home by the Sea'.' is heavily de­terms ofinstrumental/vocal bums or individual members' solo pendent on Banks for some in­relationship: neither is competing albums. strumental spots, but both seem to with the other; the music comple­
WhileDuke andAbacab high­be dominated by Collins' vocals and ments the lyrics and vice-versa. This lighted Tony Banks' keyboards, drumming. The last cut on the song is reminiscent ofAnd Then Genesis seems to be a showcase for frrst side, "Second Home by the Sea" There Were Three, the ftrst album Phil Collins' Synares, his new is predominantly instrumental. The Genesis released after the departure electronic drums. This, plus the fact work shows more keyboards than ofSteve Hackett. that Collins has been the lead singer drums this time, with some very "Just Ajob To Do" could have since Peter Gabriel left the group in nice work by Banks: been another Phil Collins solo, but 
"Silver Rainbow" is another group effort along the same lines as "Taking It All too Hard." 
The ftnal cut on the album, "It's Gonna Get Better," was the flip side to the EP single, Mama, released before the album. The song begins with a Banks keyboard intro. He uses his synthesizer to give the individual notes a long attack and a sharp decay. This results in a sound that could otherwise be achieved by playing an album backwards. While this sound is not unique, it has not been a Genesis mainstay. One of the few other times where Banks used it was in collaboration with Phil Col­lins on Anthony Phillips' solo album 
The Geese and the Ghost. 
Genesis is a solid effort that has been doing quite well on the charts. It is definitely not the best album Genesis has ever put out, but the variety ofsounds makes it appealing. 
Release ofGenesis was delayed until each ofthe three members of
.... 
the band released their own solo al­

G
bums. This timing sparked a rumor enesis is the exception to the his own following, evidenced by the 
that Genesis was to be the group's rule. The whole is not necessari­successofcuts"Salisbury Hill," "D.l. 
last album. MichaelRutherford, in an ly greater than the sum ofthe parts. Y.," "Games Without Frontiers," and 
Associated Press interview, denied Tony Banks, Michael Rutherford, most recently, "Shock the Monkey." 
the rumor by saying that the solo and especially Phil Collins have Since 1976, Gabriel has released 
projects were necessary. "One of much more to offer than Genesis al­four studio albums and one double 
the interesting things about our bums and concert tours. Each has live album. 
situation is that we're the first band produced two solo albums and col­Ofthe three current members, 
to have gone offand done endless in­laborated on many more. And as if both Banks and Rutherford have 
dividual ventures yet stayed togeth­that weren't enough, Collins formed each released two albums. Neither 
er ...We're not dissatisfied. It's just a second band, Brand X, in 1976. has met with much acclaim for their 
that ifyour entire working life is Previous members ofthe group solo efforts, though the title cutfrom 
with the same two musicians forever have fared well in their solo careers, Rutherford's second album,Acting 
and ever, it gets dull. Outside inter­too. Steve Hackett, a guitarist for Very Strange did receive some air 
ests keep you alive, I think." Words Genesis from 1975 to 1977, released play. Both performers' first albums 
ofwisdom from a man who has been one solo album while still with the were released in 1979, and both 
with Genesis for every one oftheir band, another shortly after leaving, second albums came out just prior 
nearly 18 years. and at least one, Spectra/Mornings, to Genesis' latest album (reviewed since organizing his own group. on this page). In addition to the al­This album wasprovided by The band's ftrst lead guitarist, An­bums, Banks composed the music Music/and ofUniversity Park Mall. thony Phillips, who left in 1970, has for the movie, The Wicked Lady. 

Genesis at Earl's Court, 1977 



And divided thev stand 
released at least. five albums since Phil Collins is by far the busiest 1977. His ftrst effort, The Geese and member (past or present) of the Ghost, features Genesis' Banks Genesis. In addition to his two high­on keyboards and Collins on vocals. ly successful solo albums, Face The incredible instrumentals by Value and Hello, I Must Be Going, Banks and the not-overdone vocals Collins-has played in two other by Collins combine with Phillips' bands; produced albums for The guitars to make this a truly Talking Heads, ABBA's Frieda, remarkable album. Robert Plant, and others; and con­
Of the Genesis members who tributed on at least 30 other albums. have left the group to launch solo Last year, between Genesis tours, careers, none has been nearly as suc­Collins toured to promote his own cessful as Peter Gabriel. While still second album. And as ifthat weren't with the group, Gabriel collaborated enough, he toured as the drummer with several artists, including a stint for Robert Plant on hisPrinciple of as flautist with Cat Stevens. When Moments tour this year. Gabriel left Genesis in 1975, many thought that the band would fold. It Counting only their own solo ef­was not to be, as both Gabriel and forts, Genesis members have been 
Genesis have been increasing in directly responsible for at least 19 al­popularity. In fact, Genesis' most bums and have made appearances successful album to date,And Then on at least three times that number. There Were Three, was only the In contrast, Genesis, the band, has 


second released after Gabriel's producedonly 16 albums since The album cover ofGenesis departure. Gabriel has developed 1969. 
,
,
, 
I I 
_...... 

Sports Briefs 
The ND Lacrosse team will have a mandatory meeting and practice today at I 0 p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. This is diffen:nt from the time and place that was announced in yesterday's papl·r.-The Observer 
Advanced Lifesaving will he offered Saturday after­noons from 12-3 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial Pool. Classes will begin Saturday, January 2H, and will run for seven weeks. For more information, call Sharon Athey at 277-84HO. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will he meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are welcome to attend. -The Obsen1er 
Lifesaving andWater SafetyInstructor Courses 
will he offered at the Rockne Pool at the following times:lifesaving -9:10-9:4'i, 10:1 'i-IO:SO, 11:20-11:50, and 1:20-1:55 on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, II:05-12:05, I :20-2:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and 12-3 on Saturday beginning jan. 21. Water Safety Instructor classes will he held from 9 a.m. to noon. There will be a l·harge of S6 for materials for Lifesaving classes and a S20 charge for Water Safety materials. For more information, call Brother Louis Hurcik, C.S.C., at 239-6321. -The Observer 
Workouts for the 54th Bengal Bouts have begun and will continue throughout the semester leading up to the fights. No previous experience is necessary. Workouts begin at 4 p.m. every day in the north dome ofthe ACC. For information, call Angelo Perino at 3348, Tom Lezynski at 1728, or Mike Latz at 8308. -The Observer 
Aerobics classes will begin todayfor both 
students and faculty. A faster-paced session will be offered from 4­
4:40 p.m. and a slower-paced session from 5:15-5:55 p.m. Cost for students is S3 for 13 sessi tons and S5 for 27 sessions, while faculty prices are S 12 and S22 for 13 and 27 sessions, respectively. Fees should he brought to the first session at the ACC Gym I. Lockers are available. and both men and women are welcome. -The Observer 
Ifyou'\V3llt to ski cross<OW1trvbut don't haw any skis, the NVA office is renting skis lbursdays through Sun­days. Skis must tx: reserwd in advance. Call 239-6100. -The Ob­sen,er 


Classifieds 
PERSONALS 
Experienced Typ1sl Mrs. Bedford Hours 8AMto5PM Man thru Fri 288·2107' 

MCAT USED KAPLAN BOOKS 1071 
ATTENTION NORTHEASTERNERS: In­terested 1n hv1ng down the Jersey Shore this summer? CALL PAT 8762 
THE KEENAN REVUE IS COMING II It will takeplace In O'Laughlln Auditorium at St. Mery'l on Feb. 1, 3, and 4. Stay tuned lor clatalle on ticket dlllrlbutlon. 
JULIA BABY BEAR IS LONELY AND WANTS HIS MOMMA. THE ABA IS ON­L Y TOO HAPPY TO OBLIGE. THE NIGHTMARE CONTINUES ... 
SR. MARITA'S PRIMARY DAY SCHOOL Tutoring beg1ns lh1s week. Meet at Ma1n Circle at 1:15 Mon.-Fri. Call John (1432) tor more into. 
\ LOST/FOUND 1 
I I I Lost: One gray and while thin-striped
I 
long-sleeve shirt accidentally misplaced
I 
In someone's laundry by the St. Michael's
I 
dry clean1ng sen11ce. If you have it, please
I 
return to Jim at Xll01
I 
I I FOUND: A s1lver Cross Pen beh1nd
I 
O'Shag before Chr~stmas break Call
I 
Karen. 3887, to Identify •nrtials
I I 
L 
Losll A Wilson JET leather basketball at Stepan Center on 1/19 1ffound please call 1740 
LOST PR GLASSES,BRO T WN CASE. BUSBLDG.1/19CALL6846 
LOST Navy wool stadium coal at the hockey party Sat night Please call 284­5776 
ONE HUNDRED DOLLAR REWARD of­fered by United ltmo: A tan, brown suitcase wtth a cord around it was lost on Jan 15th at Notre Dame. Please call Steve at United llmo-.. 674-6993. 
Lost: Set of keys. If found please call283­6873 
FOUND· SHARP CALCULATOR IN AM 202 BUSINESS ADMIN. ON 1/23 

FOR RENT·] 
MALE ROOMMATE needed now. Castle Point. CALL Steve 277-3206 
SEVERAL HOUSES THAT WILL AC­COMMODATE 2-7 STUDENTS. AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. CALL AFTER 5, 234-9364. 
ROOM-Safe w1th off-street parking, was­her & dryer. Call Mrs. Cooper, 2n-3004. 
Facuny home lh1s semester. family or 2 unrelated persons max. (zoned A-1). No pert1es. Near campus. Make offer 289­1687 
APARTMENT FOR RENT CLOSE TO CAMPUS. N.D. AVE. greg m. 277-6239 
FURNISHED HOME FOR RENT 277­3604 
~-W-~N_T_ED__~I 
WANTED: Success-oriented, self­motivated individual to work 2-4 hours per week plac1ng and hlling posters on campus. Earn $500-plus each school year. 1-800-243-6679. 
NEED 2 DEPAUL AND 1 MARQUETTE' TIX, ANY KIND MARYA 1317. 
need SEVEN (7) DEPAUltix! call Sheila 3484 
Riders needed to Dayton 2/09-2112 Call Dave 234-0537 
Male roommate needed-CAMPUS VIEW. Call234-0537 
RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO AREA ANYTIME FRIDAY. 1/27. SHARE GAS. CHRIS -289-2072 AFTER 6 PM 
FOR SALE 
Notre Dame house for sale. 4 bedrooms. 15 mlns. from campus. Assumable mortgage. Good 1nvestment for parents. Call283-6243. 
74 FORD VAN FOR SALE Customized Interior, New Auto. Trans., tires, banery. Reliable running cond. Asking $1450. Call Bob al 283-8552 or P aul al283-8458. 
HOCKEY JERSEY· AUTHENTIC NEW YORK RANGERS TEAM ISSUE HOME JERSEY $75 TIM 2215 
Wednesday,January 25, 1983-page 8 
Stretchercise classes will be given by the NV A on Tue~ays and Thursdays from 5;30 to 6:15 in the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. The classes start tomonvw and will emphasize stretching and light exercise. The classes arc designed for fac.:ulty and staffwho have not been active recently. If you have any questions, call 239­6690.-TheObseroer .. 
Women's fastpitch softballwill begin practice 
tomorrow, january 26 at 7:30p.m. at the ACC Fieldhouse by Gate 3. 
If there are any questions, call Chris Callahan at 3783 or Mara 
Georges at 6868. -The Observer 
The ND Karate Clubwill have its first practice ofthe spring semester tomorrow night in the fencing gym of the ACC at 7 
p.m. New members are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
An agility and quickness programwill be 
starting Monday, january 30. The workout will include quickness and agility drills along with stretching exercises. Sessions will be held on Mondays and Thursdays from 4 to 6 p.m. If you plan on participating, please attend the first meeting on Monday in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame-Davidson game will be 
broadcast tonight on WSND-AM 64. Vito Gagliardi and Bill Dempsey will do the play-by-play will announce the game. The broadcast will begin at 7:55. -The Observer 
The ND MartialArts Institutewill have its first 
season of the spring semester Friday night at 7 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial in room 219. Limited new membership will be offered on a first-come, first-serve basis. If you have any questions, call1384 or 3337.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club wm hold an 
organizational meeting for the spring semester tomorrow at 8:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. New players are encouraged to attend. No experience is necessary. Contact Geoff Branigan ( 3665) for more information. The guest speaker-wiii be Matt Zapf -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
Sims trial scheduled for today 
Associated Press 
DETROIT The trial to determine where Billy Sims will continue his professional football career begins in federal court today with franchises in rival leagues claiming his services. 
U.S. District Judge Robert E. DeMascio will decide whether Sims continues with the Detroit Lions of the National Football League or moves to the Houston Gamblers of the United States Football League. 

The brilliant running hack has signed five-year contracts with each. 
Sims signed a S3.5 million con­tract with the Gamblers on july 1 and an undated agreement Nov. 12, the USFL team said. He got $197,608 in july as part ofa S 1 million signing bonus, the Gamblers said. He also signed a S5 million pact with the Lions Dec. 16, that team said. 
Suits were filed in various cQUrts 
both in Michigan and in Texas, but 
they eventually landed in federal 
court at the request ofall parties be­
cause of the geographical diversity 
ofthe principals. 
The basic suit has been split into 
two parts. 
One is the question ofwhich con­tract Sims must honor. Then, if DeMascio decides that the Lions' contract with Sims is valid, there may be a separate trial to determine whether Argovitz and the Gamblers 

owe the Lions damages. But for now the question of con­tracts is the only issue. 
Elbert Hatchett, Sims' attorney. said that the case would take about a day and a half. Attorneys for the Gamblers, however, feel it could last up to five days. 
Hatchett said that he would call Sims, Argovitz, and "people who were present when the contracts were signed." 

~'__TiaK__ET_S~  PHOBIA OF THE DAY Parthenophobia: fear ofyoung girls  
SENIORS: Volunteer Work with HOLY  
NEED GA'S FOR DEPAUL OR MAR­ CROSS ASSOCIATES. Community  
QUETTE CALL 8057  living and service in PHOENIX,  
COLORADO. CALIFORNIA. AND  
I NEED 2 DEPAUL TIX. CALL DAVE AT 1801.  OREGON. Deadline for applications Feb..3 . Ca I I Ma-y AnnRotmEJ, 7949  
NEED 4 TIX(3 TOGETHER) FOR DEPAUL-CALLJIM AT 8951  Sail in the Southern Sun Spring Break. Let  
Boat World Cruises show you the blue  
water & golden sands of Florida and the  
NEED 4 B-BALL TIX for Maryland game.  Bahamas for a week. On Campus Reps  
Also need 4 for DePaul. Call Robal3251.  Needed:  
Contact:  
BOAT WORLD CRUISES  
Need 2 GA Maryland Tix call Nancy 4429  1260 N. Federal Hwy.  
or Lori 4378 (SMC)  Pompano Beach, FL 33061  
305-942-8500  
FOR SALE 2 Maryland GA's call Anna­ 
284-5028  
THE YELLOW SUBMARINE WILL  
FOUR MARYLAND TIX NEEDED. STU­ DELIVER DELICIOUS SANDWICHES  
DENT OR GA. FOR VISITING LEFTY  TO YOUR ROOM. JUST CALL272-4453  
HATERS. CALL KEVIN 8214  BETWEEN 8 and 11 pm MON·SAT.  
Do You need basketball tickets? We've  
got them! Rich lllCie died and left 6 TICK-'  If you like Duran Duran, the KISS ARMY  
ETS for all remaining games including  wants your soulll!l  
MARQUETTE and DEPAUL Call Pete  
3508.NOWIII  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  
CARRY OUT TIL3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE  
Need 2-4 Maryland GA's Call Jill 284­ BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  
5148  
·······································  SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS -IN­ 
TRADE: Two Lower Arena Marquene TIX  FORMATION NIGHT THURSDAY JAN.  
for two MD TIX. 7531 or 2559971.  26 7 pm at the Center for Social Con­ 
cerns. Eight weeks of service. NO Alumni  
NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX STEVE 1760  Clubs award Social Concerns Scholar­ 
ship.  
need 1 or 2 GA tickets for Maryland game.  
Call Todd 11933.  If you have 1 morning free to help pres­ 
chO<'Iers M-F from 8am-11 am come join  


HEAD START on lhurs 1/26 at 7:30pm in Haggar SMC 
... "-........................, -,... 

Whatever happened to Monty Hall? Travel Field Opportunity. Earn Money 
HOHOHO and Gain Valuable Marketing Exper~ence. 
d. Be a Representative for Spnng Break Tnp Thanks to 118Ctlon 3N, Lewis Hall. I had to Florida. Call Campus Marketing al312­a great b-elay. -your RA. 858-4887 collect. 
I am 29 years ola. ana I ve got three years left to go on a burglary conviction (at the Indiana State Penitentiary). I'm looking for a friend. Please write me at: A. A "Trump" Troxail, P.O. Box 41, Michigan City, Indiana. 46360. I would be really thankful. 
To all users of 
The Kangaroo Konnectlon 
Milo's gening annoyed wtlh the amount of disk space used by p-notes, and he'a getting reedy to wipe • bunch outl If you haven't been on in a while. log on and clean out your mall before Milo do811 
Zonker Harris Box227 
For all those who feared they mi ssed Laura Johnson's 20th Birthday· Don't worry, she's extending her celebration­today and tomorrow she will be available for kisses Anywhere you see her. 
ATTENTION MARY JOAN 'J' MCKENNA HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR FRIEND 'J' ROSES ARE RED, VIOLETS ARE BLUE HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO J WHO HAS A NEW '000' OUT WITH US YOU'll COME TONIGHT GET PREPARED TO BE IN FLIGHT. AS USUAL THE 7 7 WONT MAKE A SHOW HE'S CAUGHT ON THE TURNPIKE IN THE SNOW LAST YEAR THE GATE WAS HAD AND YOU THOUGHT THAT WAS BAD TONIGHT WILL BE A DIFERENT SCENE WE'll MAKE SURE YOUR FACE IS GREEN. ONCE AGAIN WE SAY,HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOANIE 'J' 'K GOTTA GO BYE' THEREZE AND LAV 
ENDAD 
JOANIE MCKENNAIIII THIS IS THE ONE DAY THAT YOU CAN COUNT ON PEOPLE BEING NICE TO YOU BUT DON'T WORRY,WE'll PROVIDE THE NEEDED VARIATION.NICE FACE YOU ARE VERY UGLY AND YOUR MOTHER DRESSES YOU FUNNY BUT HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANYWAY XO MAUR· NEEN.PATRICE.AND FRARY JOANIE HAPPY BIRTHDAY YOU MESS XO LITTLE MARAD 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, January 25, 1983-page 9 
L.A. homecoming 

NBA Standings 
Raiders celebrate Super Bowl win 
NBA  
Eastern Conference  
Atlantic Division  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  33  9  .786  
Philadelphia  29  13,  .690  4  
New York  23  18  .561  9.5  
New Jersey  22  21  .512  11.5  
Washington  19  24  .442  14.5  
Central Division  
Milwaukee  24  18  .571  
DetrOit Atlanta Chicago Cleveland Indiana  23 23 16 12 11  19 20 23 30 29  .548 .535 .410 .286 .275  1.5 6.5 12 12  Yesterday's Results New York 111, Philadelphia 102 Washington 123, Milwaukee 117. 20T Boston 118, Cleveland 97 Indiana 114. DetrOit 1 07  
San Antonio 117, SeaHie 109  
Kansas City 113, New Jersey 1 04  
Atlanta 1 00, Chicago 93  
Houston 118. Golden State 98  
Western Conference  Dallas 123. Utah 115  
Midwest Division  Los Angeles 116, Phoenix 110  
w  L  Pet.  GB  San Diego 118, Portland 113  
Utah  26  16  .619  
Dallas  24  19  .558  2.5  
San Antonio  19  24  442  7.5  
Denver  18  24  .429  8  
Houston  18  25  .419  8.5  
Kansas City  17  24  .415  8.5  
Peclttc Division  
Los Angeles  25  16  .610  
Portland  27  18  .600  
SeaHie  21  19  .525  3.5  
Golden State  20  23  .465  6  
Phoenix  19  23  .452  6.5  
San Otego  14  28  .333  11.5  

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Los Angeles resi­dents, who treated the Raiders with casual indifference during most of their two years here, turned out in force yesterday to honor the Super Bowl champions. 
A crowd put at 25,000 to 30,000 greeted members ofthe team during a noontime rally on the steps ofCity Hall in crowded downtown. 
"This magnificent team has brought the city together like never before in history," Mayor Tom Brad­ley said. "... Sunday's victory was a clear demonstration of a commit­ment to excellence." 
The Raiders -22 players at­tended the civic celebration under clear skies and warm weather ­were given keys to the city and proclamations from the City Coun­cil and the county Board of Super­visors. The crowd jammed onto a lawn outside City Hall and others watched the festivities from nearby office buildings -both from inside them and on rooftops. 
Three popular Raiders spoke to the crowd, many dressed in the 

INTERESTED IN LIVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? COME TO THE 
LANDLORD'S OPEN HOUSE 
Thursday, January 26 1:00-4:00 LaFortune Lobby 
Meet informally with Representatives from NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS CAMPUS VIEW TURTLE CREEK and others. 
See Floorplans! Find out monthly rents! View Color Schemes! No obligation! 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!!  
$20,000 Scholarships: AValuableScholarship. AValuable Challenge. The two-year NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship that's worth as much as $20,000 in tuition. And it offers you the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and an allow­ance of $100 a month up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you are commissioned a Navy officer. THE NROTCCOLIIGE PROGRAM. $2,000 EXPENSE MONEYAND ANAVYOFFICERCOMMISSION. The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to $2,000 plus the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. During your last two years In college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks and an allow­ance of $100 a month up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. ""'"'~ lt>\:;ltt.o• I If you have a C Plus GPA or better, call us now as scholarship opportunities have never been better. Ask for LCDR Norrbom at 239-7274 or 239-6442, or stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus.  

team's colors ofsilver and black. 
"I am in love with Los Angeles," said running back Marcus Allen, the Super Bowl MVP. "I'm extremely excited· to have everyone here to celebrate the world championship we brought back to L.A. The L.A. Raiders are here to stay." 
Allen, who gained a Super Bowl­record 191 yards in Sunday's 38-9 victory over the Washington Redskins in Super Bowl XVIII, was the crowd favorite. The former Heis­man Trophy winner from the Uni­versity of Southern California was serenaded by that school's marching band, which entertained before the ceremony. 
Defensive lineman Lyle Alzado, who perhaps symbolizes the Raider spirit more than any other player, told the crowd he had been waiting a long time for a championship. 
"It's a great experience," he said. "There's nothing like a world cham­pionship. Enjoy the world cham­pionship." 
Derrick Jensen, who scored the first touchdown Sunday after block­ing a Redskin punt, said the title was "a result ofthe drive and dedication 
of (owner) AI Davis and (coach) Tom Flores." Davis did not attend yesterday's celebration, but Flores did. 
"This (the crowd's response) is unbelievable," said Flores, who has guided the club to two Super Bowl titles in four years. "The excitement of this crowd s)lowed in our locker room every day. We have taken over Los Angeles as our home." 
Rich Marotta, a Raiders' radio an-. nouncer and emcee for the celebra­tion, quoted police as saying the crowd was the largest ever to honor one of the city's championship sports teams. 
The crowd interrupted Bradley when he tried to introduce political figures, chanting "Raiders! Raiders! Raiders!" 
Bradley suggested last week that the NFL should give Oakland an ex­pansion team to replace the Raiders, who moved here two years ago after a bitter court fight that still is being waged. Yesterday's crowd made it clear the town's sports fans certainly won't let the Raiders go without a struggle. 
• • Briefs•  
continuedfrom page 8 A ~etball Oin.icfor beginners is being offered for students, faculty, and staff on Jan. 30 at 7 p.m. at ACC Court 2. Racquets will be provided and there is no charge. Call 239-6100 for more info. -The Observer Roster entriesfor NVA's men's and women's volleyball tournaments are being accepted until today. Rosters must include no less than seven players, all ofwhom represent the same hall, plus the captain's name and telephone number. Games will consist of I 5 points and must be won by at least two points; teams will play best out of three. Submit rosters to the interhall office or call 239-6100. -The. Observer RacquetballDoublesmen's and women's tourneys are being sponsored by the NVA office. Players must represent the same hall and will play best of three games to 21 points. Players will be notified of draw and winners must submit scores. To enter call 239-6100 or stop by office C2-ACC by today. -The Observer ATrackcompetitionis beingsponsored by the NVA office. Events include 60-yard low hurdles, a mile run, a four-lap relay, 60-yard dash, 440-yard, and 880-yard runs, an eight-lap relay, high jump, and broad jump. Points will be awarded for first and second place halls as ranked by points compiled by individuals. To sign up, call 239-6100 or stop by the NVA office in the ACC.-The Observer Ifyou want to ski cross-country but don't have any skis, the NVA office is renting skis Thursdays through Sun­days. Skis must be reserved in advance. Call 239-6100. -The Ob­server The ND MartialArts Institutewill have its first season of the spring semester Friday night at 7 p.m. at the R.ockne Memorial in room 219. Limited new membership will be offered on a first-come, first-serve basis. Ifyou have any questions, call 1384 or 3337.-The Observer The ND-SMC Ski Teatn began its season in Michi­gan last weekend. Saint Mary's won the gold medal on Saturday, while the Notre Dame women took a silver on Sunday. Freshman Kathy Skendzel captured first place in the Giant Slalom. Led by soph­omore John O'Donovan, the men took third place in the field of 17 teams. -The Observer  

' 
The Observer Wednesday, January 25, 1983-page 10 
' 
i 
~ 
I 
~ 

Notre Dame plans matchup with Longhorns in future 
Assoclat<·d Press 
HOUSTON -Athletic directors at collegiate football powers Notre Dame and Texas are trying to scheduk a home-and-home series, probably in the mid 1990's. 
"Gene (Notre Dame Athletic Dirt·ctor Gene Corrigan) and I have talked about it several times and every time we talk about it, it sounds 
better,"  Texas  Athletic  Director  
OeLoss  Dodds  told  the  Houston  
Chronicle yesterday.  

"It's going to happt.·n," Corrigan said. "We've talked at length about it 
continued/rom page 12 
wrestled well in defeat for the Irish. The I 58-pounder lost a close match, 10-H. 
"I was very imprt.·ssed with Louis." praised Toth-Fejel "He fought hard throughout the match. and gave it his alL" 
Tht.· New Year opt·ned on a pleasant note for thc Irish with wins against Stetson and Central Florida in a tri-meet at DeLcnd, Fla., on January 2. 
The Irish. paced by eight wins, destroyed Stetson 38-H, and Stetson receieved six of their points because Notre Damt.· failed to enter a heavywcight wrt:stler. 
Luke DiSabato. a 142-pound soph­omore, and Carnesale pinned their opponents. Freshman Dave Helmer was also impressive, beating his op­ponent, 13-I, for a superior deci­sion. 
Ct.·ntral Florida proved to be a tougher opponent for the Irish as they won by only eight points, 27­
19. Junior captain Baty sparked Notre Dame's win with a pin at the I:SO mark of his match. 
Next on the schedule for the wrestling team was a match with Goergia Tech and Olivet Nazarene at Atlanta. The wins at this tri-meet boosted the team's record to a lofty 12-0. 
Against Tech, sophomore Gleno.~ Glogas paced the Irish with a pin, and once again Carnesale came through admirably with a major decision. 
Eric Crown. a 126-pound sopho­mort·, also won with a major deci­sion in Notre Dame's 29-19 triumph. 
Two  pins  hy  Baty  and  Glogas  
helped  securl·  an  Irish  victory  
against  a  much  weakt·r  Olivet  

Nazarcnt.·, ·ll-9. 
The New Year didn't prove to he all good, howt·ver. and thl· luck of the Irish couldn't help Notre Dame against Arizona State and Indiana State in Terre Haute on January I 0. 
The Irish dropped two straight with a 57-61o~~ to ISll and a 55·7loss to Arizona State. 
GIRLS: 

Break loose. It's easy to use romantic Marigold dating cards to help you get more dates. 40 Cards $2. 75 postpaid. 
WRITE: MARIGOLD SUPPLY 
Box 3098N, Warren, Ohio 44485 
NOTICE 

Due to construction 
Original Coney Island 
'has new hours 9am-9pm Mon.-Sat. 
15¢ club cards honored 2-9p.m. 
Oe/iveries unti/8p.m. ($12 min. order) 
and we have decided that we are going to do it." 
The two teams have met eight times prt·viously, with Notre Dame winning six of the contests. 
Texas would replace Penn State on an Irish schedule which already includes football powerhouses Michigan, Southern California Alabama, and Pittsburgh, according to Corrigan. 
"There's no way we're going to play Penn State and Texas in the same season, not with all the other tough games we have," he said. 
• Wrestling 
Against Indiana State seniors Mark 
Fischer ( 126) and Pat Jolin ( 158) 
provided the two lone wins for the 
Irish and the only points. 
The seven points for the Irish 

against ASll came on wins by Ohio 
residents DiSabato and John Krug. 
DiSabato, a 142-pounder, won a 
major decision with his 18-8 tri­
umph ofhis Sun Devil opponent. 
Although the results may not look 

good, coach Toth-Fejel was happy 
with the scores. 
"Both schools are always powers every year in wrestling," said Toth­Fejel, "and I was very pleased with the two wins we got against each team. I really thought they would blow us out." 
"The only way for a growing program like ours to improve is to compete against teams like those two," continued Toth-FejeL 
Last weekend the Irish travelled to Michigan for the Siena Heights In­vitational. 
Coach Toth-Fejel guided the Irish to an impressive showing, with three Irish wrestlers winning their weight divisions and five placing second. 
This Saturday the westling team will travel to Ohio to compete in th t e National Catholic Collegiate Tournament. They will bring a 13-3 team record into the tourney. 
I '----


The Notre Dame hockey team will put its un­Forest. For more on the Irish team as it beads into defeated record on the line again tonight at Lake tonight's game, see Ed Domansky's story below. ­
Lake Forest tonight 


Hockey team set to defend streak 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team will put its perfect 1S-0-0 mark on the line as it travels to Lake Forest tonight to take on the Division II var­sity Foresters. 
The last time the two teams met was in December. In the home-and­home series, Notre Dame won the opener on its home ice by a S-2 score. Tim Lukenda had 31 saves in the Irish goal to pick up the win. 
The next night the teams faced off in Lake Forest, and again Notre Dame came away a S-2 winner. AI Haverkamp held the Foresters scoreless through twf>-and-a-half periods, stopping 47 shots in ear-


Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet Starting january lith 
Every Wednesday it's Mama Marriott's Italian Buffet in the Looking Glass. Restaurant. A "buon gusto" array of antipasta, minestrone, fettucine, aiCCiatore, lasagne, pasta with four sauces, cheese, breads and desserts. It's all served up in a festive Italian atmosphere -checkered table cloths, a strolling musidan, -the works. 
Every Wednesday 5:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. All you can eat for S9.50. Children under 12 S4.75. 
Reservations appredated. 

_.....,u~~~~ 
$1.00 Off 
Each adult's Wednesday night Mama Marriott Italian Suffet purchased. One. roupon per table only. 
Offer expires February 29, 1984. 
SOUfH BEND.,\\QfflOtt~ 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
ning the victory. 
The line of Adam Parsons, Mike Metzler, and co-captain Brent Chap­man were responsible for seven of 
the  ten  Notre  Dame goals in  the  
series.  
When  the  Irish  take  the  ice  
tonight, they will  be without  the  

services of Steve Ely and Tom Parent. Both are serving suspensions for game disqualification penalties received in the St. Norbert series over the weekend. On top of this, Gary Bec~er and Dave Waldbillig will possibly miss the game because of shoulder injuries suffered in last Saturday's victory over the Green Knights. 
"We're going to be a little bit shor­thanded," says Head Coach Lefty Smith, "but hopefully we'll be able to accept the challenge." 
There will be at least one change in the lineup tonight. That change will have co-captain Joe Bowie moving from defense to play left wing on the line with Tim Reilly and Rick Kennedy. 
"Lake Forest is a fine club," says Smith. "We had two excellent games with them in December. Both clubs have respect for one another, so it should be a good game." 
Smith tentatively has Lukenda penciled in as his starting goalten­der, but admits that there is a pos­sibility that he will go with Haverkamp. 
Face-off is set for 8:30 p.m. Notre Dame time. 


Major areas of graduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D.): 
Aerodynamics Computational Fluid Dynamics Aeroelasticity Computer-Aided Design Bioengineenng Propulsion Combustion Structural Dynamics 
Structures-Composites Individual Tuition & Fees are $1,452 per calendar year. 
Total financial aid per calendar year: 
$13,452 Center of Excellence in Rotary Wing Aircraft Fellowships 
$14,452 Lockheed/Georgia Tech Research Assistantships 
$ 7,500-Research Assistantships $10,000 
All graduate students will participate in research. 
For further information contact: Dr. A.L. Ducoffe, Director School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology .,.. Jf-~ Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894-3000 

Today_________________
wllllllillllllled_n_e_sd_a_y_,J_an_u_ary--2-5,_1_9_8_3__p_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County 

ATTENT10N 6V£RYWY /

I'M Ula<JN6 FOR MY /t'rOTHER ••• 171SnN0015HIIJ6 CJIARAC~RISTICS A~ AWHfTE 1UMM.Y, 81& IJ£APY 
E:YE' ANP A5/lABl£ 5HNOZ. SIJJNP FA!t1/UAR. ? 
Mellish 

Guindon 

IUUL_ 
"People? Gee, I wish we'd check the task ch•rt more often." 
The Daily Crossword 
53 Feartess 4 Confeder-ACROSS 26 Fruit tree 
56 SIHve ates of a
1 Landing 30 African style sortplace for area 5 Fall behind ships 60 Hawaiian34 "Deutsch­
5 Earring 6 Casino
Island
land­

holder feature
61 Militaryalias" 7 Frozengroup9 Amos of 35 Sediment dessertbaseball 37 Lawful 63 Baa Arthur
13 Pahoehoe 8 Canvas
36 Words of role
andaa supports
denial 64 First 
9 Going-in­15 Celebes ox 39 Over person style group 16 Wind 41 Abominate 

65 "-smile
Indicator 

42 Interfere be your ..." 
10 Bye-bye17 Powerless In away 66 Add 

11 Partlcl·18 Diamonds 44 Busy as­pating67 Neckhair19 Jacket 45 -out 68 Org. 12 Mailed 20 Sips (choice 69 Chap 14 Make tea 

22 Deviating words) 21 Stereotyped from the 46 Racial 23 lrenlan normal coin
DOWN 26 Addlebraln24 Bottom line 48 Moving 1 Gash 

about 2 A Turner 27 Near 25 Kindled 50 Ham It up 3 Currier's 28 Armed to again 52 Everything partner the-

THAT~ /liCE, NAYliE 0}z I HAVE TJIOfl· 
YOU CAN HfL, lllf OUT 81.£ TOO. TilE THIS Sl:l'll.STrR. liollJLlll Tf~!HEIIS Nor ~IIY 6DIIII AT AilE OFTlH THIS soRT OF THI~ ~ HAIID TO 
\ ( IINDUSflllll 


Richard Guindon 
Berke Breathed 
Campus 
•Lunch 
and Dinner-World Hunger Coalition, Wednesday Lunch Fast Sign Ups 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to Computing, Room 115 CCMB 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Precision Tests ofQED," Dr. Jonathan Sapirstein, 118 NSH 

•6 
p.m. -Dance Class, Ballet, Spring Semester Session, Holy Cross Hall Party Room, ND, Sponsored by Abiogenesis Dance Collective, $10 

•7 
p.m. -Dance Rehearsal, Holy Cross Hall Party Room, ND, Sponsored by Abiogenesis Dance Collective 

•7 
p.m.-Film, "Heaven Can Wait," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student lhion, $1 

•7 
and 8 p.m. -Film, "IfYou Love This Planet," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Davidsen, ACC 


TV· Tonight 

6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 

The Far Side 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 


16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Straight Talk 16 Real People 22 Domestic Life 28 Fall Guy 34 A Walk Through the 20th Century 22 Empire 16 Facts ofLife 22 Wednesday Night Movie 28 Dynasty 34 The Sailor's Return 16 Family Ties 16 St. Elsewhere 28 Hotel 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 22 Police Story/ CBS Late Movie 28 Thicke ofthe Night 
SPruNG BREAK'84 
29 AHoma 51 Sherry and 31 Guam Zlnfandel capital 53 Muslim 
32 Boca-, leader 
Fla. 54 Nothing to 33 Warn a senor 36 Appear 55 Slrin 40 Preclude Malay 43 Afr. river 57 "Clair de-" 47 Connecting 'sa Arabian 
link gulf 49 Muslim 
59 Followingclerical 62 Sunburn 
group 
Tuesday's Solution 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
1/25/84 


Informational meetings for all interested in Student Union trips 
Thursday, Jan. 26 6 pm Ft. Lauderdale 

6:30 Aspen LaFortune Little Theatre 
Sports 
Wednesday,January 25, 1983-page 12 

Basketball team ready for important games 
Chuck Free by ~,. 
Sports Writer · .. 
4--------·­
Irish Items ~.... 
Hello again, everybody! 

After winning nine of their last 1 I games, it can truly be: said that Digger Phelps and the Fighting Irish baskctball team arc the: hottest thing on the: Notre Dame campus right now (including the: weather and the dining hall food). Talk already is circulating about the: Irish going to the NCAA tournamcnt for the first time in thrce ycars this March, but optimism should be: guarded. There's no doubt this Notre: Dame: team is capable of getting into the field of 53, but with the toughest part of the schedule ahead, Phclps and the: Irish know they have to take things one step at a time:. 
Two big steps towards post-season play come this wcek as thl· Irish face Davidson tonight, before taking on fifth-ranked Maryland Saturday afternoon. Forgct about Davidson's dismal 6-1 0 record. 
JJiggi!T' Phelps will be looking to Tom Sluby, who is 
The Wildcats weren't that good last season when they upset the Irish 
averaging almost 20 points pergame, to help lead the 
in Charlotte, so Phclps is certainly not looking past tonight's game in 
Notre Dame basketball team past Davidson College 
the ACC. Meanwhile, the highly-regarded Maryland Terrapins have one: of the best teams in the country this year and thcy enter Satur­day's matchup with a 13-2 record. However, this series has
Notre Dame looking to gain some 
devcloped into quite a rivalry and there's no reason to think this year's game will be an exception to the nip-and-tuck contests of the past decade. 
How about Howard? ... One of the main reasons for the im­proved play ofthe Irish is the acquisition ofpoint guardJoe: Howard. By PHIL WOLF was a case ofcxperic:nce triumphing that's true again (tonight)." 
revenge against Davidson tonight 
"Small Wonder" has made the adjustment from the gridiron to the Sports Writer over youth. "It's been kind of like going into 
court in fine fashion, sparking the Irish offense: in a reserve role. "We: weren't that strong last ycar," cvery game and trying to figure out 
While he is averaging 6.8 points an outing, his most important con­The: time has come to turn the Hussey says, "but we: wcre good as a who is going to play well along with 
tribution has come in his quickness and ball-handling abilities, tables. group simply because we had cx­Kenny. That's about the story ofour 
where he has already shown an uncanny knack for driving the lane Onl· year ago, the Notre Dame peric:nce and we could execute our season." 
and finding the open man. There rcmains only one question about men's basketball tcam was upset in offense and defcnsc welL" Last Saturday, Villanova came to 
Howard: "Can he: play any other sports?" overtime, '54-'51, by Davidson Col­Husscy knows, howevcr, that the the 1\CC with a high-scoring for­
WUdcat Warnings ... Coach Bobby Hussey's club resemblcs the: lege: in thl· Charlotte (N.C.) roles are rcvcrsed this time around. ward, but the Irish held that player 
Irish in scveral ways. Davidson is a very young club, relying on senior Coliseum. "Notre: Dame is much better than -Ed Pinckney -to only five 
Kenny Wilson to carry the scoring burden. Wilson, a 6-4 forward, is Tonight, thl· Davidson Wildcats last ycar," he concedes. "The: young points. Hussey says he is concerned 
the only Wildcat in double figures, averaging 18.9 p<>intts per game. will bl· at the Athletic and Convoca­playcrs they had last ycar are now that Wilson may be: shut down by 
Forward Ted Wolfe and center Jim McConkey both stand 6-9 and tion Centcr, so the Irish will have an sophomores, so thcy'vc gut ex­the Irish in a similar manner. 
they give Davidson some bulk on the inside, while sophomore guard opportunity to avenge: ttlat televised perience. It's an entirely different "They definately have the ability 
Pepper_!ego anchors the: backcourt. upset. Tipoff is scheduled for 8 p.m. situation." to do that (shut down Wilson)," he The: contest, which will be broad­"The (Wildcat) team this year is laments. "Especially with the fact 
However, that's where the similarities end. Other than a win over cast by Mc:troSports and ESPN, is the an c:xtrc:mely young tcam," Hussey that Kenny is 6-4, and they're going 
South Carolina and a fairly close game with Wake Forest, thcre hasn't fourth ofsix straight home games for continues. "We only have one: senior to be across the front line at 6-10, 
been much on the Davidson schedule to impress anyone (unless you Notre Dame. and we're playing all sophomores ·6-9, and 6-8." 
think an 88-52 win over Erskine College is big ncws). In other The: Irish arl· coming off an im­and freshmen." The big men Hussey refers to are 
words, ifthe Irish come ready to play, they should not have too many presive victory over Villanova last The: key 1o the game for the Irish Ken Barlow, Tim Kempton, and Jim 
problems. Saturday and a rather unimpressive will be stopping that one: senior -Dolan, respectively. These are the 
Tracing the Terps ... Whether you like him or not, you have to win over Rice: on Monday. This forward Kenny Wilson. Notre Dame players who will have 
admit Maryland's colorful coach Lefty Driescll has fielded another Saturday, Notre Dame: will face fifth­Wilson, who is averaging 18.8 to contain Wilson. 
fine team this scason. The most striking aspect of this year's ranked Maryland, but Head Coach points per game this year, scored 17 Also in the Irish lineup should be 
Maryland team is the fact thcy can hurt you from anywhere on the Diggn Phelps insisted Monday night in last ycar's game. captain Tom Sluby, who has 
floor. Forward Len Bias paces the scoring with a 14. S average, but he: that he: is playing the: games one at a Husscy says he: is aware that Wil­avcraged nearly 20 points per game 
is closcly followed by center Ben Coleman. Coleman, who is time:. son must play well if the Wildcats in the last eight games, andJoJo Buc­
regarded as the sccond-best center in the Atlantic Coast Conference "We're only thinking about David­arc to fare well in the: ACC tonight. hanan. 
behind Sam Perkins ofNorth Carolina, p<mrs in 14.1 points per game: son," Phelps said. "They beat us in "We: really haven't had very much Helping out Wilson on the front 
and hauls down an average: ofeight rebounds a contest. uvcrtime down thcre last ycar. consistency to go with Kenny," says line will be sophomores Gerry Born Believe me:, wc:'rc thinking about the: Davidson coach. "He's our andJim McConkey. Sophomore Pep­
The problems don't stop in the forecourt, though, as 6-8 guardDavidson and not Maryland." senior and he normally plays well. As per Bego and freshman Caryl Daw­Adrian Branch will provide the Irish defense with some difficulties According to Wildcat Hcad Coach a general rule, he: plays his better son are expected to start in the matching up on defense. He and backcourt mate Jeff Adkins also Bobby llussc:y, last year's victory gamcs against better pcoplc:. I hope backcourt for the Wildcats. 
average in double figures, giving the: Terrapins plenty of scoring guns to aim at the Irish. Hopefully, Notre Dame will be: able to dodge 
the bullet in front of the NBC cameras on Saturday. Irish Hoop Scoop ... Ifyou have seen the last few games, I don't really need to tell you the Irish will necd a big game: from senior 
Record now 13-3 
guard Tom Sluby. The Irish captain is doing a fine: job of leading by example, averaging nearly 16 p<>ints a game. However, the native of Washington, D.C. hasn't been getting the: job done on his own. The: 
Wrestlers split pair at tri-meet 
ByJOE BRUNETII Toth-Fcjel was quite pleased with style, but it works and he gets the job 
Irish front-line has started to gcl in recent weeks, with Jim Dolan, 
Sports Writer his team's peformance. "I expected done." 
Tim Kempton, and Ken Barlow doing a fine job ofbanging around on to be blown out by both schools," The match against Parkside was a the inside to score and rebound. 
Following a recent coaching said Toth-Fejcl "but our guys wcre barnburner, as evidenced by the Ifthere are two flaws with this team, they are free-throw shootingchange:, the: Notre Dame wrestling up for it, and they really wrestled closeness of. the score. In fact, it and consistency. The foul line troubles appear to be changing, as the team seems to be full of rc:ncwed wc:IL" went down to the last match of the Irish got plenty ofpractice at the charity stripe against Villanova and excitement and spirit. Freshman Greg Fleming opened night -the 142-pound class. 
won t the game with free throws. The consistency scems to be com­This change: in team spirit was the evening with excitement by Before: the match Notre Dame led ing, too, although the Irish can't afford too many performanccs like evidenced last night at the: ACC Pit tieing his Hoosier opponent, 9-9, Parkside, 20-18, and the: visitors Monday night's game against Rice as thcy head down the: stretch. 
in a tri-mec:t against Indiana Univer­with an escape at the: cnd of the needcd a win from their wrestler to Pick ofthe Week ... It's time: to head to the track this week. No,sity and Wisnmsin-Parkside. match. Phil Baty also looked good win the team compctition. 
I'm not talking about Arlington Park, but the indoor track ofthe ACC. 
(>nc: Irish wrestler commentcd on for the: Irish in his '5-2 win. Notre Dame freshman Scott That's where the: action will be: this Friday night as CoachJoe Plane's the: ncw team spirit saying, "Wc're "Phil wrestled really well," Biasetti wrestled for the: Irish, and he Irish open their home season by entcrtaining Loyola, Bradley, very motivated, now." commmcnted Toth-Fejel "He had took it down to the wire, losing 6-S. 
DePaul, Valparaiso, and Northwestern in a mcct beginning at 6 p.m. 
The wrestlc:r was referring to the lost to his opponent a couple times The New York rcsidcnt fought an marked change in the: motivation of before:, but this time: he won. I was uphill battle the: whole match. He 
The Irish will be looking to bounce: back from a 68-63 loss to Iowa
thr team since the: appointment of vrry plcasrd with his pcrformancc." was behind at the cnd of cach on Saturday, and there should be plcnty of excitement on FridayTihamc:r Toth-Fcjcl as interim men­Kevin Stavcly-O'Carroll, in the period, and almost won by gctting a night. One of the people who should provide: that excitcment istor of the irish. This new spirit was I '50-pound division, also wrestled takedown at the end of the third Notre Dame: long jumpcr Jamcs Patterson, who broke the schooldefinitely evidenced in Notre extrcmcly well, providing the: Irish period, but he: fell one point short as record againt the Hawkeyes by gliding 24-8. Can he break his ownDame's suprising defeat ofIll, 23-1 I. with 3 team points in his 4-0 defcat time ran out. 
record this week? Head down to the ACC Friday evening and findThe Irish fought Parksidc to the end, of his IU opponent. Junior Louis Carnesale also out.
losing 21-20 with a loss in the final "Kevin was imprcssive." praised match of the cvening. Toth-Fejel. "He has an unorthodox see WRESTLING, page 10 



