
The Far Side -page 6 
• 
VOL XVIll, NO. 79 
the imkpendent ~llldent lll'W~paper ~l'f\ ing notre dame and ~aint mary·~ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1984 

Rotation schedule set for men doing laundry 
By PATRICIA CARROLL comodate the men on their News Staff respective quads." Ross, along with other senators, 
After concluding negotiations introduced the idea first to the Stu­with the rectors ofthe women's dor­dent Senate and then to the Hall mitories and their hall councils, the President's <buncil where it was Student Senate has established a debated and directed to the separate definite rotation schedule for men halls. Though several female stu­who wish to do laundry in the dents objected to the program's in­women's facilities. trusion on privacy and security, 
The schedule became effective opposition to the plan came primari­yesterday and will continue through ly from the rectors of the women's Thursday, February 23. Pasquerilla dormitories. West will be open Monday, Even after the hall councils of Pasquerilla East on Tuesday. Breen­Walsh and Lyons had approved the Phillips on Wednesday. and Farley plan, the respective rectors rejected on Thursday. The facilities will be it. Although the rector ofPasquerilla available from 7 p.m. until 11 p.m. West, Dolores Ward, had reserva­
Specific guidelines have been es­tions about the laundry plan, she tablished for men using the agreed to the hall council's decision program. They are to use laundry to accept it. facilities in specified halls on Currently, the women's dor­specified evenings only and adhere mitories on the north quad are par­to the times allowed. No load is to be ticipating while those on the South started after II p.m. and men should quad are not. Ross suggested this 
Gary Larson, creator of the cartoon The Far Side, 
be out of the dorm by midnight. If division might be due to an attitude 
signs autographs for some fans in the bookstore. An
not studying, men are to stay in the that the Badin facility is enough in 
interview with Larson and highlightsfrom his lecture
laundry room or in the T.V. room. In that area. addition, men are asked to refrain Ross said she has initiated this from knocking on the dormitory program as at least a temporary solu­doors and to wait or call for tion to what is seen seen as a real 

Plans finalized for gathering place 
someone to let them in . campus-wide need for available 

Student Senator Teresa Ross sug­laundry rooms for men. gested using the program on a trial "This is a Christian university," 1By LINDA GASE Samaritan woman at the well which Approximately one year ago Be­basis last year in answer to the says Ross, "where we're supposed to News Staff faces the South Quad. ckman put his ideas on paper, but 
growing need for men's laundry work as a whole and work as a group. Designed by Dr. Fredrick Be­the project had been delayed as a facililies. "At first I didn't think there It doesn't seem like one night a week Plans have recently been finalized ckman, chairman of the Art, Art His­result oflack offunding. The money would be much opposition to it," is too much to give up when you to build a new gathering place in tory and Design Department, the was recently donated by Eli Ross said. "With four women's could be meeting the needs of front of O'Shaughnessy Hall, center­park will include two circular con­Shaheen, an alumnus of Notre Dame dorms on each quad ...we could ac-someone else." ing around the sculpture of a crete pits approximately 12 feet in from Sturgis, Michigan, Beckman 
diameter which may be used by stu­said. dents as a gathering area or by teach­The project is now in the hands of ers for informal class discussions. Don Dedrick, Physical Plant Direc­


Lack of alternatives to abortion 
The two pits will be located on tor, who said that plans are still in either side of a large circular con­the preliminary stages since the crete area with Ivan Mestrovic's building contractor, cost and 
sculpture of Christ with the completion time of the project have Samaritan women by the well as the not yet been determined. The bid 

, focal point. Surrounding the statue for the project should go out at the ByJOHN:JOHN AMORES created to help the newly-formed the woman had either been coerced · will be trees, hedges, and a row of end of February, he noted. News Staff Women's Care Center/Pregnancy into having the abortion, she was 

inspires new local counseling clinic 

benches. A lighting system will also Dedrick commented that the Help Center, which will open this never given all of the facts, or both, 
be installed. project is a "positive development. Kicking off the fundraising cam­March. The center will provide free Nerad said. Two other Mestrovic sculptures, 
It will ntake an interesting gathering pregnancy testing as well as profes­Often, abortion is explained as a
paign for a woman's care center in presently located outside the west area for both students and teachers the area, the national president of sional counseling. clinically safe surgical procedure, 
door of O'Shaughnessy, will be as well as visitors." Women Exploited by Abortion said Nerad explained to the audience but Nerad stressed that abortion moved and placed at the corners of The park will be dedicated to both pregnant women are being "ripped that WEBA is a group ofwomen who does carry the risk of permanent 
the two pits. the Shaheen family and to Mestrovic, off' by not being informed ofthe full have had abortions and have come physical impairment, as well as the Beckman said he had noticed for 
a former Notre Dame professor as implications of an abortion. to regret their decisions. The group potential for chronic psychological several years that "the statue was a as of three
well creator the Speaking Monday evening in the was started inJuly of 1982, and since problems. Some of the major physi­natural gathering area for students. I sculptures being highlighted. Be­
library auditorium, Lori Jo Nerad then has expanded to 83 chapters in cal problems include infections, had several thoughts for a gathering ckman hopes that "as the lhiversity advised women considering abor­45 states. The group is non-political, sterility, and gastro-intestinal distur­· or resting place for visitors or stu­acquires more sculptures, more tions to consider alternatives such as non-profit, and pro-counsel, and it bances. 
dents." projects will ensue." aid and support from relatives or helps women deal with physical and The goal of WEBA, Nerad said, is adoption. mental trauma in the aftermath of to educate all women about the ef­The fundraising campaign is being their abortions. The group uses the fects ofabortion and to help them to 
ND-SMC debate team looks 
sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint word "exploited" because in almost fmd an alternative. to Life, and it was case documented WEBA, Throughout her often emotional speech, Nerad brought up different 


toward national tournament 
case histories of women having trouble dealing with their abortions, By BARBARA HARDIN perts elucidate on the debate topic. including her own personal crisis. News Staff Speaking skills are also an impor­She had an abortion eight years ago tant part of debate, Monberg noted. because, at that time, Nerad said she Research and study are not Through practice, many of the was pressured by social and limited to the classroom for 20 stu­debaters can say 300 words in one economic factors into believing that dents who comprise Notre Dame/St. minute and recite 60 arguments in a she could not have another baby. Mary's Debate Team. single I0-minute speech. The resulting feelings of regret, According to Captain john Moo­Leading the team this year are guilt, and loss put her into a tailspin berg, the hard work begins in mid­juniors Monberg, Paul Komyatte, ofdrug abuse, child abuse, and even­July when the team receives a Jim Malackowski and St. Mary's tually, a nervous breakdown. resolution informing it ofthe unique sophomore Kristi Stathis. According 
Nerad believes that in addition to debate topic for that year. to Monberg: "The team is strong this her emotional state, the physical This year's resolution pertains to year and will continue to be next trauma ofher abortion caused her to hazardous waste disposal, declaring year because we're not losing 
have cancer, and as a result, she had that the producer of hazardous anyone and have recruited 
some to undergo a hysterectomy. waste is legally responsible for any good freshmen." It was during this low period in resulting injury. Out ofsix tournaments so far this her life that she realized that she was Along with individual research. season, the team has taken first place not alone in her depression. Nerad there are two two-week long in­
at both Notre Dame and Eastern II-found out that many other women stitutes team members can attend during the summer in Amherst,
see ABORTION, page 3 see DEBATE, page 4 
Mass., and Tucson, Ariz., where ex-

Lori jo Nerad and janet Smith, faculty advisor of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life. 



The Observer Wednesday, February 1, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
The on-campus computer store 
opens today at I0 a.m. in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center. The store, operated by General Microcomputer, Inc. of South Bend, will have information on the new Apple Macintosh per­sonal computer as well as the Lisa and Apple lie systems, all ofwhich an: on display. As of January 25, oral commitments had been rt-ceived for approximately I00 of the I50 Macintosh computers ordt·red initially. The computer, retailing at stores nationwide for 
52,495, sells for SI,090 at the store. The discount is part of an ar­rangt·ment worked out between Apple Computer and 24 univer­sities, including Notre Dame. -The Observer 
The University of Wyoming Student Senate 
may withdraw student fee support of all campus publications. The measure would leave the student newspaper, yearbook, and literary review to produce their own revenue. Under that system, only the newspaper could survive. Sponsors of the resolution say it will insure an independent student press and prevent students from sub­
sidizing publications they don't use. -The Observer 
Kicking the television habit, a month-long 
exptTiment for Farmington, Conn., residents, ended yesterday, with backers claiming that up to a third ofthe residents went cold turkey and that many permanently reduced their dependence on the tube. Ironically, the sponsors said a major contributor to the success ofthe project was all the publicity it got -from television. TV news coverage ofthe program "immediately brought national and interna­tional attention on this community and virtually everyone in town was aware ofit," St·hool Superintendent William Streich said. Streich estimated that at least one-third of the families with school-age childrt·n participated in the TV turn-off that started Jan. 3. -AP 
Of Interest . . 
The annual change of command 
ceremony ofthe Battalion of Midshipmen of the Naval ROTC l 'nit at Notre Dame will be at 4:.~0 p.m. today at the Stepan Center. Midship­men Second Class Robert B. McMonangle will rdieve Millshipml'n Captain Pl'ter Quast as the Battalion Commander. Quast. a Sl'llior physics major from Vestral, N.Y., will remain at Notrl' Dame lll'Xt year to study mc:chanical engineering as a graduate student. McMonagle, a junior government major from Parris Island. S.C., is a mc:mber of the Marine Option program. Many Midshipml'n will also be recognized for their achievements of the past Sl'ml'stc:r at the cc:remony. -The Observer 
Candidates for the degree of Certifl~d...Public 
Accountant may attend a series of 36 review sessions for the May c:xamination, eat·h three hours in length, to be sponsored by thl' College: of Business Administration at Notre Dame, in associatiion with tht· Centt·r for Continuing Education. An introductory session is st·hc:dukd for 7 p.m. tomorrow in the Center. Classes will be con­ductt·d on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday evening from 6 to 9:45 and on thrt-e Saturdays from 8:30 to I I :45 a.m. and from I to 4:15.­
The OfJsen•er 
Want to be president? Meetings for studmts in­
tt·rt·stnl in running for studc:nt body presidc:nt or student body vice prt·sitknt will be hdd tonight at 6:30 in the Little Theatre of l.aFortunt·. A mt'l'ting for potential student senate candidates will be hdd at 7: I 'i p.m. in the Little Tht·atre. The timesofthe meetings have bt•t•n changed hn·ause of the Fordham haskt·thall game. -The ()fJ. 
Sl!rt'er 
Dr. Anthony Malcomson. deputy director of 
public record offkt· of Northern lrdand. will speak this afternoon at 4 in till" l.ibrary Lounge. The topic will he research opportunities in manuscript collt·nions in England and Ireland. -The Obsen•er 

Weather · 
Cheer up; spring is coming Mostly sunny and 
warmt·r today. lligh in low to mid 50s. Mostly clear tonight. Partly sunny and mild tomorrow with highs in the: upper 50s. -AP 

The Observer ( I'SI'S W'> l-~000) i• puhlished Monda)' throu!(h Friday and on home.· fool hall ~aturday~. ext-epl durin~oe f."xam and vou.:arion pc..·riO(.Is. The Observer is puhlbht·d hy lhl' sludl'nls of the llniv t t·rsity of Notrt• l>amt· and Saim Mary's Collt-gc.·. SuhM:riptions my he.· purchased for Sl~ pl'r yt·ar ( 5 I'i pn sc:mes!t•r) hy wriling The Observer, 
P.O. Uox Q, Notn.· Damt.·. Indiana -t6CiCj(l 
The Observer i' a mt·mher ofThe As­
sociated Pres."'i. All rt·prodlll"tion riJ(ht~ arc.· rt''it'fVt'd. 
Today's issue was product·d hy: 
PrtJdUL'titJn CtJtJSultant .....Stt·ve foster /Jesign l:'dilor......................... Susan O'Hara Ot•sign Assistant.jt·nnk. Camille. Kan.·n. 
Doro1 h)', l.iz Typesetters... ..... Michelle Fan!O,Jennifer IIi!lOll Neu•s Editor..........................)df Karria1110n Copy l:'dltor............................... hi Konradv 
Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Features Copy t:tlilor.Jerry Young. Mary lkaty Features Lt~J•out ..... ................. Marr Ht·aly NIJ Day Editor...... .. ...... Barb S!evens Photographer... ....... Carol Galt'S 


Grade point system lacks accuracy and fairness 
It's time to revise Notre Dame's misleading scale for 
calculating grade point averages. 
The current system awards a 4.0 for an A, a 3.5 for an A-, a 3.0 for a B, a 2.5 for a B-, a 2.0 for a C, a 1.0 for aD and a 0 for an F. 
The grading system has changed three times in the 
last 26 years. Before 1958, A's represented 91 to I 00 
percent, B's 83 to 90, C's 76 to 82, and D's 70 to 75. 
From fall 1958 to spring 1963, the University used a 
six-point system with new letters and new numerical 
equivalents. Ninety-five to 100 was an A-plus, while 
similar five point ranges represented A's, B's, C-plusses, 
C's and D's. What did they have against B-plusses? 
In fall 1963 the University adopted a standard four­point system and did away with the numerical equiv­alents. 
With these changes came the idea of quality points. For the first time, the grade point system used weighted averages so an A in a three-credit course would not equal a one-credit A. 
In September 1970 the University switched to the present scale -one which many consider arbitrary. 
In 1974, a legend was added to explain what each grade meant -outstanding for an A, excellent for an A-, very good for a 8, good for a B-, acceptable for a C and passing for a D. 
The system at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's today has its advantages. Profes­sors can be more precise with their grades -instead 

of four choices for passing point higher -perhaps not grades, they have six. Stu­enough to make a dif­dents who earn 80s and 90s ference. But tell that to a stu­
are not lumped with those 
who earn 89s and IOOs. 
Such a system should, in theory, make it easier to compare students within the University. But many think the system exaggerates the performance of good students and protects those with lower grades. 
The question is agood one. Why are there two kit nds of A's, two kinds of B's, but only one kind of C and one D? 
The setup makes more sense when looking back at the previous systems the University used. The A, A-, B, B-, C, D scale today is much like the A-plus, A, B, C-plus, C, D system ofthe late 50s and early 60s. The letters are confusing, and probably meaningless, but both have six passing grades. 
Yes, the system does a better job picking the men from the boys (and the women from the girls.) But what good is that for students and the learning process? Students who constantly compare themselv<:s to 
*
* 
..* 
.. 
* 



I "f" d • StudentSavingsCard?
I
C aSSI 19 5~ 
•
• 


Keith Picher 
Viewpoint Editor. 
Inside Wednesday 

others are missing the point of education. They learn not for the good oflearning, but to own bragging rights. 
The more a system tells people that one student is better than another, the more students will believe such a theory and organize their studying to beat the system. 
But aside from ethical questions, there's one practical concern. Many students who have a shot at a job or a fellowship after graduation are hurt by Notre Dame's peculiar system. 
When , .the registrar's 
office mailStranscrils, they attach a s~t explai ing the grading s}'Stem. Bu Notre Dame's GPA loo s just enough like a stand d four­point that many dor..' under­stand the difference. Even if they did, they would need a calculator and a few minutes of math to figure the dif­ference, For example, if Notre ,. Dame used a standard sys­tem, my grade point would be roughly two-tenths of a 
dent who gradu'ltes with a 

2.8 instead of a 3.0, or someone who misses a scholarship by a tenth ofa point or so. And students who get a disproportionate amount ofA-'s and B-'s are hurt more. 
Students probably do worry too much about grades at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. But at least some ofthe fault belongs to a system which yields a GPA consistent­ly lower than that ofother s.:hools. 
To settle the matter, the schools could addjlusses, take away minuses or even print a standard GP · equiv­alent on the ~anscript. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's want to avoid ade in­flation, especially when it involves athletes. B t their way of doing it probably hurts education at at both schools, rather than helping it. 
Th~ vi~s expressed In the Inside column are Ihe views of th(" author, and do nol necessarily rdkctthC' viC"W~ ofthe editorial board or stall 
***************** 


Focus 
on 
America's 


Future 

Call today for a complete examination and 20% OFF any pair of glasses with your student savings card. 
• Large selection of fashion frames 
N

• All types of contact lenses 

"t:.""'Q 

• Prescriptions filled 
lfonwood 
~ 
Cioclo 
j

• 
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 

• 
Dr. Patrick Albert .; . 


7b'\'\l' ~'\il' •. 


ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 
***************** 
~Buy it 

* • Trouble ReadingYour
* -Observer £
* 

The Observer Wednesday, February 1, 1984-page 3 

O'Connor named N.Y. archbishop 


ctamelot 
AUDITIONS 
Tonight at 7pm 1n Washington Hall 

Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet Startingjanuary lith 
Every Wednesday it's Mama Marriott's Italian Buffet in the Looking GlasS Restaurant. A ''buon gusto" array of antipasta, minestrone, fettucine, caa:iatore, lasagne, pasta with four saures, cheese, breads and desserts. It's all served up in a festive Italian atmosphere -checkered table cloths, a strolling musidan, -the works. 
Every Wednesday 5:00p.m,-10:00 p.m. All you can eat for S9.50. Children under 12 $4.75. 

$1.00 Off 
Eadl adult's Wednesday night Mama Marriott Italian Buffet purchased. One. roupon per table only. 
Offer expires February 29, 1984. 
SOUfH BEND.,\\Qrriott~ 
123 N. St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 234-2000 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Bishop John ]. O'Connor, named to head the na· tion's fourth-largest Roman Catholic archdiocese, vowed yesterday rhat the fight to stop abortion and "defend human life" would 
'permeate everything I attempt to do" as archbishop ofNew York. 
O'Connor, a former chief of Navy chaplains who helped draft the U.S. Catholic bishops' letter condemning nuclear war, was bishop ofScranton, Pa., for seven months before Pope John Paul II named him to succeed Cardinal Terence Cooke, who died Oct. 6. 
But unlike Cooke and other past archbishops ofNew York, O'Connor will not be appointed military vicar to serve more than 2 million Cat­holics associated with the armed forces. 
The Vatican is giving the military 
post a new status "by making it total­
ly independent of any territorial 
diocese," said Archbishop Joseph 
Ryan, who has been running the 
vicariate since Cooke's death. 

Wearing a lapel button reading "I love NY," O'Connor told reporters in Scranton he was "scared" about succeeding Cooke, whom "the people of New York considered a saint." 
O'Connor, 64, said he would devote himself "unceasingly to ... defend human life, especially the life of the unborn. Such efforts-will con-

r------·--------------------------------.I I 
I 
I


The New York Times I I 

Special Low Ratesfor I 
I 
I 


Campus Delivery I 
It's not too late to order your subscription to THE NEW YORK TIMES. Special low rates for campus delivery of The New York Times are now available at 30% off the single-copy price. This discount rate of 35¢ is good only for weekday and Saturday papers. Sunday papers are available on the subscription basis also but no discount is given. Papers will be delivered on Sa.m. on the day of publication to dorms, faculty offices, Department mailboxes, staff offices, or anywhere else on c;ampus you visit daily. Off-campus and law students can pick up their subscriptions in LaFortune and the Law 


School Lounge respectively. 
Your paper can be guarenteed for delivery on Wednesday, February I only if payment is received by January 31. Delivery for orders received after January 31 will begin within 3 days and refunds will be granted in case of 
overpayment. 
Please mail the bottom portion of this slip to: George Devenny 145 Stanford Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 283-8635 

1
~--------------------------------------­
I 
I 
I Dear Mr. Devenny: I 
Count me in for The New York Times! I will Subscribe: 
I 
I Spring Term (ends May 6) Monday-Friday .................. $21.35 
-----"'­

Monday-Saturday ............... $25.20 Monday-Sunday ................ $52.70 
I

Sunday only ................... $2i.50 Rates do not include receiving paper on holidays or auring exam week. Enclosed is my chec_k payable to George Devenny in the amount of$ 
Name 
Address 
Phone 

---------------------------------------· 
SHAMPOO SPECIAL 8·5 Mon.·Sat. &19-&S9-81MBadin Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 University of Notre 0dm<' (Evenings by Appointment) 1 GUST WITH PUMP $5.50 UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER Professional Conditioning ---------HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS--------.... ShampooOur master stylists have the up-to-date and conventional__ styles for the men and women of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Let us take care ofall your hair care needs. i 1 "Get them while they lc. st" We also have a full line ofretail hair products and are located on campus for your convenience.  

stitute my No. I priority and will permeate everything I attempt to do." 
He will be installed as archbishop on March 19. His elevation to car­dinal is a virtual certainty. 
Referring to the archbishop's need to cope with the city's social and cultural problems, he said "This will be beyond my experience. I used to play ball, but I've never played with the Yankees. It's a dif­ferent ballgame." 
"Some might call me a liberal in terms of social activities," he said. "But never at the expense of the or­thodoxy of the doctrine." 
As head of the archdiocese, O'Connor will lead 1.8 million Cat­holics, the nation's fourth-largest archdiocese after Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston. Church his­torians said he is the first career chaplain to rise so high in the U.S hierarchy. 
Before becoming bishop ofScran­ton last year, O'Connor was an auxiliary bishop under Cooke in · Military Ordinariate. In that post, and previously as a 27-year Navy veteran, he developed a reputation as a good administrator. 
Born in Philadelphia, O'Connor was ordained in 1945 and became a Navy chaplain in I952. He served in both the Atlantic and Pacific fleets, including tours of duty in Okinawa and Vietnam. 
He became senior chaplain at the 

U.S. Naval Academy, then chief of Navy chaplains. In 1979 he was named an auxiliary bishop to Cooke. 



Abortion 
continuedfrom page I 
had lilad similar negative feelings af­ter their abortions, and she decided to work for WEBA. Since then, Nerad said, she has been '"growing and healing by ministering to other women who have also experienced problems." 
In counseling women on surviv­ing the experience of abortion, Nerad stressed four points: don't al· low anyone to trivialize or dismiss 
~y(>ur-grief, don't be too hard on yourself, forgive those toward whom you might fee! bitter because of their implication in the abortion, and most importantly, seek healing in C.od. "'The most powerful thing for pre-abortion counseling," Nerad stressed, "is love." Nerad has counseled women from all over the lliited States and she said that she "can't believe the1need for WEBA. It's so great." Commenting on the new Women's Care Center/Pregnancy Help Center that will open in March, Nerad said that ifshe had been coun· seled properly and ifshe would have had more ofa chance to think things out, she would have had her baby. Nerad said that the care center is im­portant for pregnant girls because it "gets them away" from the negative atmosphere of the abortion clinic and the pressure to have an abor­tion. Nerad discussed some of the al· ternatives to abortion, citing the availability of centers in com­munities all over the U.S. that will help raise infants as well as selective and open adoption plans, which al­low the mother to choose the adoptive parents. She also commented on how glad she was that the care center is located near the adoption clinic, so that the girls could have a real choice. Decrying the legality of abortion, she commented on the logic of the law, saying that "a girl can get an abortion without telling anybody, but she can't even get her ears pierced without permission from her parents." . Nerad placed her confidence in the new care center, predicting that the abortion rate in the area would go down, and that hopefully, the need for her counseling services would also decrease. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 1, 1984-page 4 

Debate focuses on foreign policy 
Associated Press 

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -Walter F. Mondak favors swift withdrawal of Amc:ri<.:an Ma~int·s from Lc:hanon, hut St·n. John Gknn shic:s away from setting a date:. 
Sen. Alan Cranston makes the nuclear fn-c:n· the centerpiece ofhis presidential t·ampaign, giving it an t·mphasis that tht· other Democratic presidential contt·nders have not. 
All st·ven -Mondak, Glenn, Cranston, Sens. (iary Hart and Ernest II oil ings, former St.·n. George Mc<iovnn anti Jesse Jackson -had an opportunity last night to air their t(,rdgn policy diffen·nn·s, as wdl as 
stress their disagreements with President Reagan. 
Formt.·r Florida Gov. Reuhin As­kew was the only major Democratic candidatt· to skip the <.lchate. sponsornl hy llarvard's Kennedy S<.·hool of Government and the Bos· ton <iloht·. 
Tht· !(,rum, one in a long series of fan··to-fan· t.·ampaign confronta· lions, was arranged at a time when the pan· oftht· campaign is quicken­ing, with the l<.·ad-off Iowa caucuses kss than thrtT wc:t·ks away and the: 
Nt·w  llampshire  primarr  set  for  
t'ight days latt•r on Ft·h. 2H.  
Massachusetts  holds  its  
Ikmocratic primary on  March  15,  

the: "Super Tut·sday" on which several Southnn states hold primary ekctions as wdl 
Whatt·vt.·r tht· disagreements among tht·msdves, all seven Democrats partidpating in the debatt· havt· long been critical of 


Congress 
•


receives '85 budget 
Associated Press 

WASIIIN<iT<>N -Congressional lc:aders got a preview yesterday of th<.· S92'; billion fiscal 19H'; budget Prt·sident Reagan offidally sends to Capitol llill today. The legislators said they were not surprised hy the election-year package:, even hy all the: red ink -S I HO hillion worth. 
"The hmlgt·t dc:licit will he: larger than we would like it to be. But not as large as some had predicted and many ti.·an·d," St·nate Majority l.t·adt-r lloward II. Bakn.Jr., R-Tenn., said aftt·r ht· and otht·r Republican nmgressionallc:aders emerged from a Whitt· I Joust· hudgc:t hriding with Reagan. 
Debate 
continued from page I 

linols University and a third plan· 
award at Miami -a record which 
tht· team is quite proud ot: Monherg 
says. 
The tt•am's next tournamt:nt b 
February I0-12 at Northwestern. "It 
will host 52 teams, the biggest 
tournament in tht· country," says 
Monhc:rg. 
Tht• t<.·am hopes to he in\'ited to the: National lkbate Tournament in which top teams are chosen from all ovt·r the country to compete:. "We: will probably make it," ~ys Mon· berg. "It would be tht: first time in seven years." 
Tentatively, tht· debate team will host a team from Japan at Notre Dame in March. lkviating from the assigned topic, they would debate the issue ofJapa nest: trade policies. 
GIRLS: 

Break loose. It's easy to use romantic Marigold dating card5 to help you get more dates. 40 Cards $2. 75 postpaid. 
WRITE· MARIGOLD SUPPLY 
Box 3098N, Warren, Ohio 44485 
Reagan's Lebanon policy, and have opposed the administration's policy of providing covert assistance to guerillas fighting the leftist govern­ment in Nicaragua. 
On arms control. all Democrats complain that Reagan has failed to achieve any progress in negotiations with the Russians, an issue that is ex-
peered to become a major issue in 
the fall campaign, regardless of who 
wins the Democratic nomination. 
Reagan, who announced on Sun­day that he will seck a second term, counters that the world is safer than it was before he: was inaugurated be· cause ofhis administration's military buildup. 

TWO EXCITING ENTERTAINMENT EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 
1. 
The 'WILT DISNEY WORLoe Vacation Kingdom, near Orlando, Florida. is seeking professional Singers, Dancers and Musical Theatre Actors/Actresses. Most positions are fOi full. one-year contracts wtth some summer seasonal employment also available. Sorry, no professional instrumentalist auditions. ­

2. 
The 'WILT DISNEY WORLD Vacation Kingdom and DISNEYLANoe (located in Anaheim, California) aTe looning a22­member All American Coli~ Marching Band lor each Palk. plus, a 40-membei All American Oilege Symphony Orchestra to pertoon at EPCOT Center. TheSe positions aTe lor summer· long e~loyment. beginning June 4 and concluding on August 18. 


AUDITION REQUIREMENTS ALL AUDITIONEES: 
• 
Must be 18 years of age by June 1, 1984 

• 
Must bring acurrent resume and photograph 

• 
Must show movement ability AUDITION SITES CHICAGO, ILLINOIS February 11, 1984 TALENT AUDITION: Colurrbia College Theatre/ 


COLLEGE MUSICIANS: Music Center 
DePaul University 11th St. Theatre 
Fine Arts Bldg. 62 East 11th Street 
804 Belden 

Audition call: 10 am-5 p.m. Audition call: Females-10 am. Males -2 p.m. 
(between Michigan & Wabash) 
Jom the "World" leaders tij famtly entertainment' For additional audilton requirements or if you need further inlormatlon, please call or wnte "DISney Audition Tour '84," Entertainment Divtsion. P0. Box 40. Lake BUfma Vista. Fl 32830. (305) 824·5478. (Monday-Friday only, 9:00am to4 .00 p.m. ESn. 
'Hli""A' I J)oSNI•P"'tJulloO"'S 

:. 
t( 

is accepting applications for the position of 



Editor-in-Chief. 
All ND/SMC undergraduates are eligible. Deadline is 5 p.m. February 3. Contact David Dziedzic for info. 

From TERADYNE A VeryLarge~ale Invitation from a Technology Leader 
In electronics. the era of very large scale integration (VLSI) has arrir,ed, leaving many companies with products suddenly obsolete and engineering staffs strugglfng to catch up. 
But not Teradyne. Thanks to 162 million spent on R & D in 1980-1982, Teradyne was ready and waiting for VLSI. 
Ready u•ith VLSI memory testers, logic testers, analog testers, board testers. 
Ready in Boston, Ma. imd Woodland Hills, Calif., where Teradyne det•elops ATE for tbe electronics industry. 
Ready in Deerfield, Illinois, center for Teradyne 's telephone system testing operations. 
Ready in Nashua. New Hampshire, where Teradyne produces backplane connection systems and state-of-the-art circuit board technology designed to meet VLSI packagin!!, requirements. 
This kind of technology leadership spells growth. Excitement. Challenge. Career opportunities you just can't find anywhere else. 
Teradyne. A company ahead of its time. lookin!!, for some !!,OOd people to keep it ahead. 
For more information, see your Placement Counselor. 

WE 


MEASURE 
UP. 


Wednesday, february 1, 1984 -page 5 


ViewP-oint 
The challenges of a transfer student 
As incoming Freshmen we find ourselves at a large university with daily challenges and countless new experiences. We stumble through a lot of things but we can find solace 
RandyFahs 
Wednesday analysis 
in the camaraderie which we find in the 
dorms, as well as the fact that there are 1700 
other people at Notre Dame going through 
the same thing. 
The transition to Notre Dame living poses some unusual problems for people who enter the university not as Freshmen, but as transfef­students from other colleges and universities. These people draw far less attention than the 1700 incoming first year students. 
Transfer students bring with them the ex­periences gained from other institutions. 
They have to clear many of the same hurdles as the Freshmen, but they also have additional obstacles which are unique to their status as transfer students. 
The major problem is that of housing. Whether they like it or not, transfer students are going to spend at least one semester, and often as much as a whole year, living off campus. 
Being an off-campus resident is a far dif­ferent experience for a person who is new to the University than it is for someone who has lived in the dorms for two or three years and has elected to move out. 
Notre Dame is a campus which revolves around dorm life. The people that we eat with, socialize with, and participate in activities with, are generally the people who live in the same hall we do. A transfer student is not af­forded the same luxury of having a group of ready-made friends nearby. 
They are unable to enjoy the conveniences ofliving on campus. Their lives are much less flexible and they have to spend much more time alone. Also, lack of easy transportation can prevent them from taking part in many activities. 
Junior Laura Battaglia commented that transfer students have to try much harder to get to know people on campus. Theirs is a far greater feeling of isolation since most of the social life revolves around dorm life. 
One transfer student who since has been able to get a room on campus is Karen Klocke. She said, "The number ofpeople I got to know tripled when I moved into the dorms. l think that the various halls should attach them­selves more to transfer students to give them more access to Notre Dame social life." 
The unique problems faced by transfer stu­dents may not be common knowledge to the average Notre Dame student, but the student government and the administration have done a great deal to make the transition easier. 

There is an organized orientation which in­cludes many of the same things as the Fresh­men orientation procedure. as well as some unique activities designed especially for trans­fer students. 
While housing remains a problem, the Office of Student Residences aids "new" stu­dents (they do not usc the word "transfer" be­cause they feel it )las too many negative connotations) in their search for off campus housing, as well as quickly filling on campus vacancies from the list of people waiting for dorm housing. 
Even though new students have had dif­ficulties is getting acclimated to Notre Dame, Karel" and laura feel that the experience has fulfilled most of their expectations. If on­campus housing could be made more available, the orientation process would be made much smoother and easier, but alas this can only be solved by building additional dorms and this is not likely in the near future. 


Reagan re-election decision hardly a surprise 
The President's announcement last Sunday night that he would (surprise, surprise) seek re-election with his current Vice-President, George Bush, will stand as a landmark if anti­climactic date in recent American politics. 
No American President since Dwight Eisen­hower has successfully completed a second 
Robert Lloyd Snyder 
Then midweek 
term in the Oval Oflke, and surely no Presi­dent since Richard Nixon has stood a better chance ofaccomplishing that feat than Ronald Reagan. 
Newsweek, in a recent issue, posed the "hot" political question of early 1984, "Can Anyone Stop Fritz?" The real question of the 
1984 presidential campaign does not center around the nomination of Walter Mondale, but rather around the electoral hopes of Ronald Wilson Reagan. At this writing, it is dubious that anyone can sidetrack the Reagan­Bush steamroller. 
I believe that it is important for this country that Reagan run for re-election for a variety of reasons. For one thing, American domestic and foreign policy since 1960 has been victim to the dog-eat-dog arena of American elec­toral politics, causin problems for the United States in our dealings with our NATO aiiies, Latin America, and especially the Soviet Uni­on. 
It is important at this time to determine if the reactionary voting practices of the American electorate will end during this elec­tion year, and if the evolution of media-age politics has not rendered the four-year presidential term obsolete. 
If Reagan cannot win re-election, can any future American President? Wouldn't it be a strong signal that the times demand a single six-year Presidency similar to that of the French? 
Secondly, I believe that it is important for Reagan to run for re-election for the simple reason that the Soviet Union, currently in the throes of a leadership crisis, knows that the possibility is very real that it will have to deal with a Reagan for another four years who, this time, won't need to worry about re-election. 
The Soviets will perhaps then decide to negotiate with the lhited States at the earliest possible opportunity, rather than have to ~eal with an encouraged and unfettered Reagan. 
Not co incidently, this would work to Reagan's advantage if the Soviets decide to deal in good faith before the summer, because major progress in US-USSR relations in the months prior to November will re inforce Reagan's desire to cast himself as a man of both peace and strength. 
Conversely, the 1\:agan administration will under no circumstances make major conces­sions to the Soviets without payment-in-kind, and will not likely make any vigorous attempt to rekindle stalled negotiations with the Rus­sians. 
Perhaps it would be good to review sketch­ingly the accomplishments and the failures of the Reagan administration over the past three md one-half years. In the positive column, -\merica's economic turnaround since 1981 1as been nothing short of amazing in many ·espects. 
America is once again seen as a determined and unafraid actor in international affairs by a large portion of the world. But perhaps most importantly, Reagan is perceived as a man who keeps his word, someone that the American people can trust. 
Indeed, it was quite humorous that many political observers dismissed much of Reagan's 1980 campaign,.~romises-.,. as 
'rhetoric" and were genuinely surprised when he was able to enact many of those promises. Throughout Reagan's political career, it is evident that he truly believes most, ifnot all, ofwhat he says. 
Reagan projects an honesty and "old-style" forthrightness which opinion polls continual­ly manifest. Reagan's major accomplishment Nould seem to be, then, the spiritual uplift of rhe United States since the term of)immy Car­ter and the resultant patriotic surge in America 

Yet, it is easy to list Reagan's failures. His Cabinet has been a disaster in the respect that it has continually been torn by dissention and instability. Reagan has been unable to achieve any tangible results in the Mddle East or Latin America other than to maintain the status quo. 
Unemployment in the lhited States, while perhaps partially due to the advances ofstruc­tural unemployment, remains unacceptably high and directly attributable to the economic policies ofthe Reagan Administration. 
Reagan has shown little if any compassion for the poor and the politically dis­enfranchised in this country, and will be a major campaign point ofthe Democrats in the next few months. He has alienated Jews, blacks, Big Labor, teachers, and perhaps most importantly, women. 
It is incredible that Reagan has remained as personally popular as he has, and interes~ing­ly, Reagan seems the only hope that the !\:publicans have of avoiding a disaster com­parable to the Democratic massacre of 1980. 
Perhaps this leads directly to the major reason why it is good that Reagan is running for re-election, because it will give America the best opportunity possible to determine the type offuture which will lie allead ofit. 


P.O.BoxQ 
Infonet system 
DearEditor, 
After two weeks of practice, I have finally mastered the art of using the new phone sys­tem. First, you get some refreshments, your security code, and as much patience as you can gather and you head for the brand new touch-tone phone that sits in the corner of your room. 
After waiting ·a few minutes for the dial tone, you push 9, then I. At this point, you will most probably hear at least four or five other people on the line. To surpass this obstacle, clear your throat and shout into the mouth­piece that this is an emergency so everyone has to get off the line with as much authority as you can muster. 
If you manage that, you can go ahead and dial your number. A dozen attempts at this should be enough for you to get that elusive special tone that tells you that the system is ready to accept your security code. Be sure to punch it in quickly because if you don't, you're liable to lose the line to a faster person. 

This part also shouldn't take you more than a dozen tries. You shouldn't, however, think that you have gotten through at this point, for more often than not, the line goes dead after you punch in the code, and you have to start over. 
The true beau_ty of the system is that ifyou ever do manage to get across, whicl;l should be about once every two 30 minute sessions at the phone (if you follow the above instruc­tions religiously), you will have forgotten what you wanted to say in the first place, and will thus have wasted an hour at least without accomplishing anything....Bring Back the old phones, at least they served a purpose. 
M.Mouasher 


Editorial Boanl DepartmentManagers 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 

P. 0. BoxQ, Notre Dame, IN46556 (219) 2"39-5303 Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager .... .............Christopher Owen 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l'ni­Executive Editor................................. Paul McGinn Controller ...............................................Alex Szilva5 versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect NewsEditor.................................Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Edttor....................................Mark Worscheh Circulation Manager...,.....................Mark Miotto curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa SaintMary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski -~vstems Manager ...........: . .............Kevin Williams majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, anot'fie Inside Column present Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan the views oftheirauthors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher Founded November 3, 1966 and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Features Editor...............................Sarall Hamilton 
Photo Editor.......................................... Scoi:t Bower 




Showcase 
Wednesday, February 1, 1984-page 6 
A glimpse of the Far 

T
he Library Auditorium seemed filled to capacity at 7: I 5 p.m. but still they kept squeezing through the doors. It wasn't the prospect ofthe Keenan Revue or BillyJoel tickets that brought these students in droves. They had come to see the man who has a contract with the Chronicle Features Syndicate for drawing hears calling "dibs" on a fat sheep. ~ 
Finally, at 8, Mary Schmid, Student Union academic commissioner walked onto the stage to introduce the creator ofThe Far Side. But the resounding applause compounded by an audience chant of"Gary, Gary, Gary ..." prevented Schmid from completing her task. 
Then Gary Larson appeared. 
As the cartoonist walked meekly to the podium, the auditorium ex-· ploded into a standing ovation which Larson could only answer with a nervous "Thank you ... I don't know what to say. I didn't realize there were this many de­mented people in South Bend." 
Larson had come to explain his cartoon and career to the studentsof Notre Dame who have been laugh­ing at and sometimes ponderingThe 
by Sarah Hamilton 
features editor 
The cartoonist opened up his past, offering the audience a chance to determine whence came his drawings ofsnakes pained by char­
ley horses, dinosaur fossils devour­
ing cub scouts and Snow White learning that the seven dwarfs have black lung. 

Keenan Revue once again to tickle the cant pus 
---------=-----:=-=------:=---------------event in which ..,eople flock to be in-by Marc Ramjre.z. I'""',, ,, I'"\" sulteQ ...sometimes being insulted features staff writer ifthey are not. "In the Revue's fifth 
__________..;.,______..______________ year," said Fahs, "we insulted every 
T
ht· lint: was long. dab in the middle ofit, and don't girls' dorm on campus except for It went all around the think the Keenan Revue people have Lyons, and they were upset." Lafortune lobby, around and up the forgotten that) starting tonight. And why does Saint Mary's hate stairs to the Chautauqua ballroom, Randy Fahs and David Magana, them? "Well, we packed winding up and down the floor, both seniors, are once again the O'Laughlin," said Fahs. "They can't packing the ballroom, then producer and director of the Revue. lo that." meandering down another hallway This year the positions ofassistant Walking around campus the other and through the door at the other prodw.:er and assistant director have lay, Magana heard a caped crusader t•nd. down the student government been added and arc being filled ;ay "There goes the Keenan Revue office hallway. hack through the respectably by Neil Keohane and master". He replied, "Is that any­door at the other end of that and up Bill Borat.zek. Head writer for the thing like a GAF View master?" In be­tht· stairs to tht· third floor. through Revue is James MacLennan-a tween such bizarre experiences as one mort· door and up tht• hallway junior who admits liking "stupid this, Magana found time to assert until I could peek out the Obsen,er jokes". Stage manager is Jim Henry, that last year's Revuedid break even, office door and see them waiting. who makes sure everything is and assured that "this year we'll do it 
Waiting for their chance at tickets. onstage when it has to be. again." Said Keohane, "We're more 
It could only he for the Keenan Magana spent last weekend organized this year than we've ever Rt·vue. and tht· Kt-enan Revue it was: watching over 60 acts and skits audi­been, as far as money." three nights of musk and comedy tion for the show. He then spent MacLennan, a resident of the only and fun. showcasing the talents of hour upon horrendous hour trying non-Keenan entity to participate in most of the inhabitants, and nothing to whittle:: down the six hours of the Revue (the University of4­hut the inhabitants of Keenan Hall. material into two and a half hours of North, which seceded from Keenan 
Tht· Rt·vue was started by two quality showbiz. "There's com­some time ago and plans to "give Fr. Kn·nan Rcsidt·nt Assistants, Rick petent quality dancing," said Ted an honorary degree"), has Thomas and Tom Lanz, who decided Magana. "Not this Dancing Irish created a skit "for anyone to be in that hall spirit and Ul'ity just wasn't stuff." the show who wants to be in." That up 10 par. Tht·y scart:hed for acts and Keenanites were encouraged to way anyone whose original act was skits from Kt.Tnan residents. and put begin secreting their creative juices cut from the show can still par­toj.letht·r a show that attracted atten­over Christmas break, but l'ahs and ticipate. tion from not only Kt-enan, but tht· Magana suspect that most skits were Donations to the Revue to cover emirt· Notrt· Dame campus. That written sometime last Thursday. costs are being encouraged, and if first Revut.· was held in Washington Gone are the Hoosier Ronco you really want to carry this flail. Two years later, the show was Brotht·rs and exercising with Mot­memory with you until your waning so popular that a larger facility had her Theresa, but returning are the years, the 1984 Keenan Revue will to ht· found; and now, in the eighth Keenan Tumblers and the Theater K. be available on video tape for the anniversary of the Keenan Revue Fahs says he plans to be clothed first time ( S29.95 for either VHS or (the J98j Information Please Al­for the first time in three Revue ap­Beta). manac suggests that you bring linens pearances, and you can also look for­and lace as your contribution). ward to a lot of humor directed at The Revue opens tonight at 8 and people stand in lint· for hours Saint Mary's. There will ofcourse bt• will be presented again Friday and beforehand. people who will fill up the usual repertoire ofabuse aimed Saturday nights. Admission is free, ()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint at Breen-Phillips. Violence is but ifyou didn't get your tickets last Mary's for thret· nights (it would prevalt:nt in this year's Revue, say weekend, well ...there's always have bt·en thrt·e consecutive nights, Magana and Boraczek. next year, I guess. And don't forget, hut Hilly Joel is coming right smack The Keenan Revue is the only Fahs will be clothed this time! 
Far Side every day at lunch since January 1983 when it first appeared 
in The Observer. This was only the 
third lecture Larson has given, but 
his nervousness, humility, and 
natural frankness were appreciated and enjoyed. Slides accompanied 
the presentation which added to the casual atmosphere of the evening. 
In fact, the presentation actually began with home pictures as Larson showed slides of his childhood house, an early drawing, and himself reading a Superman comic book. 
by Margaret Fosmoe 
features staff writer 
B
izarre, off-the-wall, unhinged, wild, unpredictable. 
This is the image readers conjure up as they peruse their newspapers each day. 
Today it might be three snakes chuckling together as one of their companions slithers offwith a "kick me" sign taped to his back. 
Last week it was probably a family sitting around its living room staring at a blank wall. "In the days before television," the caption explains. 
Tomorrow it will be three insects marching along, arms linked, to the chant "Spiders, scorpions and insec­ticides, oh my!" 
The creative genius behind The Far Side cartoon defies the image that most ofhis fans expect when they meet him. 
Agentle little man with rimless eyeglasses, a receding hairline and a quiet smile, Gary Larson is dis­concerting to his readers. They come expec~ing to encounter ir­rationality, and are greeted with flawless manners. They secretly hope for lunacy, and arc disarmed by a shy nerveuS~lau8h 1 ,,., 
Larson, four years after signing a contract with the San Francisco Chronicle that skyrocketed him to celebrity status, still doesn't seem to know what all the fuss is about. 
"Generally confused, quiet, cyni­cal, irreverent and benign" are words he uses to describe himself. Not at all like the offbeat demented Far Side characters who appear each day in I I 0 newspapers across the country. 
"Sometimes people think you are 
going to be a walking manifestation 
ofwhat you draw," says Larson. 
This contrast between expecta­tion and reality sometimes makes for unusual encounters. Fans expect Larson to do bizarre things. Once he was asked to sign his name on a bowling ball with an electric 
engraver. For the most part, however, fans are "strangely well­mannered," he says. 
Larson is a very private man who infrequently goes out to meet his fans by way oflectures and book­signing sessions. He agreed to come to Notre Dame when he was invited by Student Union because "I was told (The Far Side) had a good following here." 
The Larson style is a landmark, and perhaps a turning point, in the cartoon industry. The Far Side is an upside-down and backwards look at 


1. 
ides that went off the deep end! 
offend a particular group. One such cartoon depicted the three blind mice hearing the deranged farmer's wife chasing after them with a'car­ving knife. This cartoon was published; however, the Farmers' Wives ofOregon wrote to Larson asking for an explanation and suggesting that it gave farmer's wives a bad name. 

Often it is only necessary for the cartoonist to maKe small changes before the syndicate will accept a particular cartoon. In one Far Side, Larson had only to convert an insect th t at was abandoning her husband from a fly to a beetle so that she could take the grubs with her and not the maggots. His editor did not accept a deceased King l,(ong lying in the street on one end ofa dog leash with a poodle at the other end, but when Kong crushed an annoyed woman's tomatoes, the cartoon went into print. Sometimes publica­tion means only waiting until the editor goes on vacation. 
In response to a questi0n about the Fort WayneNews-Sentine/'s can­cellation ofThe Far Side, Larson apologized, "I feel bad when someone has taken offense." Al­though the cartoonist does not sit down and "try to offend halfthe country" even he was embarrassed about one slide ofants marching off to feast on a fallen and broken Humpty Dumpty. When the audience groaned, Larson tried to explain, "Ants like egg." 
Larson likes to spooffairy tales and nursery rhymes in his cartoons, though usually with more'taste'than he treated Humpty Dumpty. According to Larson, his editor warns him about this because he is afraid the cartoons might be too esoteric. This was not the case last night as the audience voiced their amusement at a lobster crying "Auntie Em, Auntie Em ...There's no place like home, there's no place like home," before being tossed into a pot ofboiling water; or a crocodile placing an obscene phone call to Captain Hook. "Tick-tock-tick­tock." 

One ofthe cartoonist's favorite pieces is entitled, "Great Moments in Evolution." It portrayed a baseball team offish contemplating how to retrieve its ball which had fallen on land. Cows, snakes and babies also seem to be among his "pets." Lar­son's cows which have been catapulted to immeasurable fame were first introduced when a troupe consisting ofa cow and a cat with a fiddle were rehearsing their act so that they could take their show to· the moon. 
Larson appears much less off the deep end than his Far Side, and denies identification with any ofhis characters. Nevertheless, at least two cartoons were based on per­sonal experience. One ofthese pictures a person lying flat on his back after building his own chin-up bar into a door frame and chinning 
himselfthrough the door jam. Lar­son's fear ofsharks and the unknown is captured in a Far Side which shows a shark spitting out scuba gear. 
The Far Side should remain a part oflunchtime at NO for a while to come{as its artist claims not to be financially secure enough to retire for a period as Trudeau did); however, some ofLarson's off­balanced and sometimes off-colored cartoons may never reach the dining halls. This is more understandable after last night's visit from The Far Side's creator. For those who could not fit into the auditorium and therefore missed this momentous occasion, a sense of Larson's humor can be grasped from his closing remarks, a quote from Mel Brooks: "Tragedyis when! cut my fmger and comedy is when you walk into an open sewer and die." 
Wednesday, February 1, 1984 -page 7 
>ehind the madness 
the world. Larson's people and (more frequently) animals do the least-expected things in the least­expected manner. His elephants can use crutci'.es and talk on the phone. His fish may commit suicide by jum­ping out ofthe water. And his humans could very well be found chasing cars or living in mailboxes. 
Larson says he does not try to analyze where his ideas come from. "I've never had a very good answer for that. I just sit down and go to work. I'm almost apprehensive about looking into that too much," he says. 
Larson claims he had a "fairly 
Leave-lt-to-Beaverish" childhood in 
Tacoma, Washington. An intuest in 
animals, particularly reptiles, and a 
knack for drawing have been with 
him since he was a young boy. "I've 
been drawing since I was a little kid, 
but I've never had any formal train­
ing," Larson explains. 
After graduating from Washington State University, Larson held various odd jobs, including working with the Humane Society, a music store and a Seattle-based band. His cartooning cartter began "when I was disenchanted with what I was doing. I took a couple days off and drew six cartoons." He sold them to a local magazine and his career was launched. 
"In 1980 I drove down to San 
Francisco to the <hronicle and came backwith a five-year contract. It was a Gnderella story ofsorts," says Lar­son. 
The cartoonist, who is unmarried, lives and works in his house in a sub­urb ofSeattle. In his spare time, Lar­!Dn enjoys playing the guitar and indulging his continued interest in snakes. 
He does not follow a rigid work schedule. Each Far Side cartoon "may take a halfan hour to draw or I may spend the whole day on one and still not get it right," he says. 
Larson has been criticized for presenting too much violence in his work. A Fort Wayne newspaper recently dropped The Far Side be­cause an editor felt the comic was too violent. The paper resumed the comic after mass reader response demanded The Far Side be reinstated. 
Larson responds to such criticism: "It is a very subtle medium. There is no way I can control the ways it is in­terpreted. People have a varied sense ofhumor. There is a certain amount ofrisk in it" 
Larson says The Far Side tends to be most popular with a young adult audience. "I guess I directed it at that audience. I dtlttkilttlftlCJt'Oi''"' something that evolves as society does and I am reflecting that." 
The Far Side has achieved a near-cult following at Notre Dame and 

Saint Mary's. Latson says it is also 
very popular at Washington State 
University and the University of 
Arizona. Larson has visited both 
;hose schools on a promotion tour. 
As the success and reputation of The Far Side continue to grow, Lar­liln plans to branch out. His two books, The FarSide andBeyond 1be FarSide both made the Washinton Post best-seller list. Plans are under­way for another book, a calendar, posters and agreeting card line. "I'm not sure how extensive merchandis­ing will be," says Larson. 
Gary Britt, a representative of 'Andrews, McMeel and Parker 
Publishing, Inc., says the posters are 
being designed now and should be 
out by mid-Mly. 
The Far Side was not created over­night and Larson says the cartoon will continue to evolve. "It's taken more ofa shape in the last few years," he says. 
With merchandising plans in the works, and Larson's creative genius showing no signs ofstopping, it looks as if devotees ofThe Jar Side will be able to look forward to dogs taking their masters for rides in the car, three pigs discussing an obscene phone'c'au,'an'd bears inspecting a a group ofcampers in sleeping bag~ ('Sandwiches!') for a long time to come. 

A
s you may have heard, Notre Dame Food Service was honored with an Ivy Award last week. In our very own Observer, the award was described as the Academy A ward for food services. I discussed the honor, over lunch ofcourse, with Francis Frankfurter, a friend of mine who considers himselfan connoisseur of culinary productions. Me: I just don't know about this 
award Frank. I really don't think the 
food is that good. 

Frank: What do you mean? This food is a sheer delight to the palate. Let me try some ofthat award­winning "chili frito delight" you've got there .. .mmmmm, that's deli­cious. Personally, I'm partial to this award-winning Hungarian Noodle Bake. 
Me: Wait a minute. just last week you were complaining that the food here wasn't fit for pigs. 
Frank: Don't you know that cer­tain species ofswine require special nutritional supplements that are not routiQ.ely supplied on an institution­al basis. 
Me: Well, no, actually, I never heard ... 

Frank: Listen, that's not the point anyway. We just didn't realize how great this stuff really was until these Ivy people came along. 
Me: I just don't know Frank. 

Frank: Don't be so picky. Hey, aren't you going to eat those award­winning mashed potatoes? 
Me: Here help yourself I thought they were grits. Frank: Are you kidding? These are absolutely scrumptious potatoes! 
Me: Scrumptious? 

Frank: Yeah scrumptious! You know Iwas talking to a friend I know who goes to Podunk U. Told me the} don't even have honey loaf there ...ever! 
Me: But you hate honey loaf. 

Frank: You're missing the point again. Eating this food is like watch­ing someone win an Oscar. You don't have to worry about it because you know it's first rate, top notch, numero uno. These are quality eats kid. 
·Me: Actuall , I've seen some Academy Award winners I didn't 
like. Maybe this Ivy thing is sort of 
like a "Best Cblor-mix in a Short 
Black and White Documentary" 
kind ofOscar. 
Frank: An Oscar is an Oscar and 
an Ivy is an Ivy. 
Me: Or maybe it's like a foreign 
illm Oscar. Yeah, that must be it be­
cause I can never understand 
foreign films without subtitles. At 
the cafeteria I can rarely figure out 
what the food is without looking at 
the menu. And hey, that would jus­
tify thoseMexican nights and 
Chinese nights they're always 
having. 
Frank: You know a lot ofhard 
work goes into preparing those 
nights in order to create the right 
ambiance. 
Me: Gee, and I thought all they did was put up a few Mexican posters and serve tacos. 
Frank: Don't be sarcastic. This is the closest thing we've had to a na­tional championship in years. 
Me: I suppose you're right. I guess we should count our blessings. 
Frank: In fact, this might be better than a national championship in football or basketball. Those are just silly games. I mean, what do people care more about, a bunch ofguys running around in funny suits or a four-star meal? 
Me: Everybody does have to eat. 
Frank: And not all schools have football teams, but every school must have some kind ofa cafeteria or at least a snack bar. The Ivy, my friend, is a true national champion­ship. 
Me: You might just have some­thing here Frank. Notre Dame could become known the world over as the King ofCafeterias, the Mecca of Munchies. Every Irish Catholic kid in the country would grow up dreaming to eat at Notre Dame. 
Frank: Sure, and the alumni would donate thousands ... mil­lions to make sure our comestibles remained number one. 
Me: Frank, this food is starting to taste better already. Hey, are you going to eat those award-winning 
elatin cubes? 

Wednesday, February 1, 1984 pageS
The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next· day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person
Classifieds or by mail. Charge Is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 
BASKETBALL Yes. talks. today is lhe day we·ve all been TICKET IN THE ACC AFTER 6-BALL wa1tmg Iori Today IS Tom Mall"s t 9th 
FOUND· STUDENT MCAT PREP BOOKS CALL 8t97 
NOTICES GAME IF YOURS CALL GLEN X 3120 FOR RENT PERSONALS b1nhday! Drop by 7t8 Grace or call x6802 
Want lo know what"s really going on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL 

and w1sh him a happy day I FOUND: ONE PEARL NECKLACE AND FURNISHED HOME FOR RENT 277· HEY GUYS ARE YOU TIRED OF STRIK­
CATHOLIC REPORTER. the onlyExpenenced Typ1st 

ING OUT WITH THE DAMES? IF YOU GET OUT OF TOWN, PEOPLE! TIM2 OTHER NECKLACES IN A JEWELRY 3604 newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­Mrs Bedford 
BOX OUTSIDE OF FARLEY. CALL PAT ARE SIGN UP NOW IN TIM AND DAVE"S MILK"" HANLON TURNS 20 TODAYIII
scription Information and a free sampleHours 

2n-7571. Student rental: 5-6 bedroom house. copy. call Paul at 277·485t. DATING CLASSES. THESE GUYS ARE STOP BY 309 MORRISSEY OR CALL8AMto5PM 
fireplace, dishwasher. & washer & dryer. PROFESSSIONALS THAT KNOW X3574 AND BE A PART OF HISTORY Ill 
Mon thru Fn 

FOUND: A photograph ol two klttene Call232·4057 or 272-7767. 
THEIR STUFF AND KNOW HOW TO FROM THE NOMADS, JOE AND BOLGE 288-2107 
and one not too -lrd Fltz. Buddlea FLAUNT IT. SO IF YOU NEED HELP now and lrlendalonover. Call232-0817. SPACIOUS 2-3 BEDROOM HOME WITH THE LADIES CALL UP NOW TO NEAR GOLF COURSE THIS SEMES­SIGN UP. SPACES ARE LIMITED. T J the OJ goes AM as WSRD becomes
TRAVEL FIELD OPPORTUNITY ·EARN 
TER. 2 PERSONS OR FAMILY. NO adu~ contemporary. Will Wizard-LandMONEY AND GAIN VALUABLE 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. ever be lhe same? 
LOST:QUANTITATIVE METHODS PARTIES. $250 & DEPOSIT OF $250. HELP!! Need 2 tiks lo MU/ND game. CallMARKETING EXPERIENCE BE A REP· 
CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. US. 3t N . ONE RESENTATIVE FOR SPRING BREAK 
TEXT AT SOUTH DINING HALL FRIDAY 289-t687 Many at x347t 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. TRIP TO FLORIDA. CALL CAMPUS 
1120 AT APPROX 1:15. ACTUALLY. I I ONLY STARE THIS WAY AT YOU! 
.......... ························•·• .... 

BELIEVE THIS TEXT WAS STOLEN. TO Need one male roommete. Rent $80 I NEED MARQUETTE TIX. STUD ORMARKETING AT (312) 858-4887 COL· THE PERSON WHO STOLE IT IF YOU per month. One mile north of campus. GA. CALL BILL at 1059. EXr"ERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 HOW'S YOUR ASPEN? 
LECT HAVE ANY CLASS. EVEN A LITTLE BIT. Call Tom et 2n-4851. SPRING BREAK SKI TRIP $265 PLEASE RETURN THIS TEXT TO College educated couple Interested in INCLUDES 5 DAYS, 6 NIGHTS. 5 DAY
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA"S. CALL DAVE AT

HEY TIM WHY DONT YOU AND ································································ 
adopting an infant. II you know of anyone LIFT TICKET WHERE YOU FIRST APPREHENDED 
t80t.

FRANCO GET A REAL MAJOR??? 
who Is considering placing a child lor REFUSE TO DO SO YOU ARE SCUM WANTED $$Helpll Need 2 DEPAUL Tixl call 284-adoption. pleasa call (217) 398-4t 69 after THE NO RECORD STORE Seve 2!10 011 Llet 
IT NO Q QUESTIONS ASKED. IF YOU $75 DEPOSIT DUE FRIDAY FEB 3 AT 
6p.m.

AND I HOPE YOU ROT IN HELL STUDENT UNION 
5119$$

on your textbooks by order al Pandora"s WANTED: 2 BILLY JOEL TICKETS.
Books 

FOUND ONE SET OF KEYS OUTSIDE Get ten percent oil anything you order
CALL 272-5877 AFTER 6:00PM Need DEPAUL GA"s call John after 7 pm
Two day dehvery serv1ce! 

at BIG BEAR on McKinley Avenue by
OF CORBY"S THURS. NITE. CALL 1854 Margaret from McCandless. Where did
collect (312)998-8384 937 South Bend Avenue at Corby Blvd the Town and Country Mall. Juet ahow

TO CLAIM Need ride lo Bloom1ngton. IN (IU) Feb. 3-5 you gel those white boots aga1n?
Phone 233-2342. 
or any weekend call John 234-7033 BILLY JOEL-·2 tix lor sale Not rear of your student ID and tell them that (Signed,) Saturday nights are hot lor me. LOST:Biack Cas1o calculator-watch. on stage. John S. 289-8417 "Sam" IMint you. II Party Dave goes tool
KEENAN REVUE TICKETS ARE 
there, you know It must be awesome. GENERAL ADMISSION. The numbero 
Fn, Jan 27. If found, please call Mark at NEED 3 MARQUETTE TIX. FAMILY 
See you theno II printed on the tlckelo ARE NOT SEAT 
1787. COMING FROM N.J. MUST HAVE Need Keenan Review tickets willing to Ask Alan Mullis how long il took him to 
THREE GA"S CALL GLEN x3t20 pay big$$$. Call TOM t 169 th1nk of a comeback NUMBERS. Seeling et the sholn Ia IIIII 
THREE MINUTES TO MIDNIGHT ftret COITMI, llret aerved. 
LOST: GOLD BEAD NECKLACE WITH 
DIAMOND CHIP SPACER BETWEEN Look1ng lor 2 dependable females to I NEED DEPAUL TIX (BIG BUCKS) CALL THIS ISNT ABOUT DAVE CLAYBAUGH 
Summer Programs lor SMC-ND Stu­
MIDDLE BEADS IF FFOUND. PLEASE share living expenses in furnished house. 277·7570 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE dents London Program May 23-June
CALL MARY AT 283-6781. t 0 minutes from campus. $ t 50 per month HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES Includes utilities. Non-smokers please. NEED t GA & 2 STUDENT TIX FOR DEADLINE FRIDAY FEB. 3RDIIII
TIM HAS HERPES AND NOW SO DOES 22 (Tnovel In lnoland, Scotland, SUE France); College-level couriMis Rome
LOST: or STOLEN · A "Pnnc1ples of Call239-5930 or 29t ·9644 DEPAUL$$$$Dave ph18t4 Program June 17-July 16 (Travel In
Management"" book from bookshelf WANT TO EXCHANGE FRIDAY HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES France, Ger., Switz); College-level
outs1de bookstore on 1·30. PLEASE NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO NEED FIVE TIX FOR DEPAULIII KEENAN REVUE TIX FOR SATURDAY DEADLINE FRIDAY FEB 3RDII! couriMis ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
return. no quest1ons. CALL 1697. COLUMBUS. OHIO THIS WEEKEND PLEASE CALL SHEILA 3484 TIX CALL 1527 CALL FITZ AT 234-5357 
Feb 27 Rm 349 Mad-lor Info. call Prot 
Black 284-4460 (day) or 272-3726 (evenings). 
LOST. BLUE NORTH FACE COAT ON I NEED DE PAUL TIX"S. WILL EX· NEED RIDERS LEAVING FRIDAY FOR
JAN 18 AT SENIOR BAR I THINK WE URGENT: R1de needed lo Grand Rapids CHANGE MARQUETTE TIX"S OR I.U.·JIM 3584 JUST EXCHANGED COATS PLEASE weekend of Feb. 3. Will share$. Please CASH. CALLJOELATNO.t570 
CALL AT 1695 Call Tim at 8798. CHEAP RIDE TO FLORIDA!! insig·
LOST/FOUND 
Jim Pernas. All the odds are agamst you
nificant.plebtan !iU/e freshman, all alone in
Need 2 FORDHAM lix! -Pat 8826 (Jersay-1te. freshman. and Keenan-ita)

FOUND-gold Lorus quanz watch w1th a Babysitter needed occas,onally lor 2 the world, seeks warm and sensitive com­LOST: Jan. 25 et Senior Bar -navy 
but I have la1th in you. Break a leg 1n
dark lizard band. Found 1n ACC. call to great k1ds 1n near northwest neighbor­I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA BASKETBALL panion lor car ride to Florida during Spring 
tonite·s debut and I" I see you tat your best 
pea coet. Pleaae call2n4166 Identify 284·4391 hood. $t .00/hr. Own transportation TIX. call Greg at 2n-5062. Break. Must be willing.... lo share ex· Saturday! Love. your sis.. Conme You 
preferred. Call233-7463 penses and any small problems lhal too. Chris-and lhan,...bothl 
LOST: ONE BLACK WALLET AT LOST Jan. 25 at Senior Bar -navy pee NEED MARQUETTE TIX CHRIS 8229 might pop up along lhe way. II interested. CORBY'S ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT. IF coat. Plea.., call2n4166. 2 FEMALE ROOMATES NEEDED IM­call Kev1n the lonely stud"" al 1073 and FOUND, PLEASE CALL 2n-8291. make my day. 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
MEDIATELY CAMPUS VIEW CALL 284-NEED 6 MARQUETTE TIX 8982 
WRITING CONTEST Open lo all Grad &REWARD. 
TO THE BORROWER"" OF MY BLUE 5342 Undergrad students Poetry & Prose ac·
AND GREEN SKI JACKET AT THE FIS­ATTN: Mary Beth Chnstie. please call
NEED DePaul basketball tickets. As. 

cepted w1lh no length requirements Sub·LOST: DARK BLUE JACKET HER PARTY FRIDAY NIGHT-PLEASE NEED 3 MARQUETTE TICKETS. Please many as you've got. This Isn't Chaae back. From 227 Dillon. 
mit one copy with name and address to:THURSDAY (1126) AT RAFFERTY"S 
RETURN IT IT IS COLD OUT caiiJam1e at 13181 Manhattan Bank, heno, so don't ask lor 309 O"Shag by FEB 10 W1nners will be
CARDIN ZIPPER JACKET. I'VE GOT CALL3003 the farm, but we will offer something Ley Hee! Lake a brag!! Pave. Leg. 
notified by FEB t 7 For mora 1nlo callYOURS WITH BUTTONS. CALL 28&­reaeonable. Call 8765tor details. 
Patrick McManus 283·t754 9070. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOLLY LOVE the end of last semester Call 1695 to FOR SALE Need many Marquette tix $$call Sue 284· JANE ANDROGYNOUS ENTERPRISE"S t 984 Found: Calculator in Hurley Build1ng al 
LOST. One gray and white th1n·stnped 
cla1m. 5173 Inventory Salel OOPSI We bought too long sleeve sh1n w1lh a small hole on the HELP NEEDED IN THE NORTHEAST 
many BELT-BUCKLE MISTLETOE"". so lop leN shoulder. ,It was accidentally put 1n FOUN'rf"iN'"E•G AUDITORIUM AFTER Notre Dame house lor sale. 4 bedrooms, will trade DePaul or Marquette tix lor NEIGHBORHOOD we"ve slashed the pnce to $5.99! Order someone·s laundry by St. M~ehael"s COME FIND OUT MORE 
SOPHIE"S CHOICE. ONE PAIR OF 15 mms. from campus. Assumable Keenan Revue Tix x6738 ask lor MUFFY now and receive FREE GEORGE Laundry Serv1ce before Chnstmas. If you 
LEATHER GLOVES. CALL t283 TO mortgage. Good investment lor parents. MEETING: THUR. FEB 2, 7:00PM CEN­WARD"S smash hit Surlin" Salarr· plushave lt. pleasa return toJ1m al Xt t01 IDENTIFY AND CLAIM. FOUND: ALSO Call283-6243. -r~ ·ih~ ii~v ·;;(i;;; ii,~ to;;,9;5 ;;,he; t;;;~!J;;t TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS as a special bonus GEORGE"S national 
IN E.l51 AUDITORIUM. ONE RETAINER my Billy Joel ticket(around S pick 460): I bestseller· The packaging Process'" Call Happy 2t st Alyson Miller I Watch oul
STOLEN: SMC CLASS RING BBA 84 IN A YELLOW CASE CALL t283 TO FOR SALE HP-33E CALCULATOR lost your name and number. Please call room t 69 Dillon at t 644 and ask lor 
GERI CALL NO 5002 REWARD $50 CLAIM. 

magazme 

All interested in writing for the Scholastic 2nd semester: 
Writers' Meeting Mon. February 6 7:30pm Scholastic Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 
CALL FRED AT t 760 Chuck at t 972. 
SENIORS The most exciting weekend of your Senior Year Is fast approaching THE 1984 SENIOR FORMAL Aprll13-14 at the Palmer House In Chicago Help choose the theme for this big event 
Submit ideas Feb. 1-3 to ND/SMC Student Activities Office Prize for winning theme Is dinner for 2 at Jeremiah Sweeney's GET PSYCHED!! 
world· meal her at Nancy·s Windy City lor 
GEORGE I 
cocktails. 
r 

consultants to Multinational firms seek qualified 1ndivlduals w1th language and area expertise on foreign markets. Our clients prefer foreign nationals with advanced degrees !rom American Univer­silies. VtSa restrictions might not apply to some ol the available projects Part-time and lull-time assignments available. Fee Patd. 
Send resume or request lor appltcallon form to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine Dept: B-33 
P 0. Box A3629 Chicago Illinois 60690 

A 10-week structure group will meet two evenings weekly beginning 

Eating Disorders 
• 
Anorexia Nervosa Feb. 28 on the Notre Dame campus. 

• 
Bulimia SYMPTOMS Note: Not all victims display all symptoms 

•
Abnormal weight loss 

•Refusal 
to eat, except for tiny portions 

•singe 
eating •vomiting 

•
Abuse of laxatives, diuretics, emetics, or diel pills 

• 
Denial of hunger 

•Excessive 
exercise Distorted body image:see themsleve~ "lS 




fat I hough actually thin •Depression 
•Preoccupation 
with food 

•
Absent of irregular menstruation in women 



....................................
~---~ 


SpOrts Briefs 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Clubwm 
hold a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the third-floor gymnastics room at the Rockne Memorial. T-shirts will be passed out, and future plans will be discussed. New members are welcome. For more informa­tion, call Pat Toole at 277-7571 or Matt Kelleher at 283-1206.-The Observer 
Your Health. is a three-night seminar sponsored by Cen­tury Club and NVA. The seminar runs this Sunday, Tuesday, and Wednesday and is being held in the LaFortune Center Classroom (first floor). Lectures begin at 7 p.m. Sunday's lecture is "Why Good Heali:h ...And By The Way, What is it?" featuringJeffAaron, director ofthe Health and Lifest'"jle Center. Register for the seminar by calling NVAat 239-6100. The cost is S 3. More information will be in tomor­row's paper. -The Observer 
A cross country ski tour will be sponsored by NVA this Saturday. A S 1 fee includes ski equipment, hot dogs, and hot chocolate during the two-and-a-half-hour trip. Register in ad­vance by calling 239-6100.-The Observer 
t. 
The Fellowship of Christian Ath.letes 
will be meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
A downhill ski package for Royal Valley is being offered by the NVA. The package, which includes transportation, lift tickets, ski rental, and lessons, covers the next three Tuesday nights. You can buy the package for one, two, or all three ofthe dates. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6690. -The Observer 
Track 
continuedfrom page 12 
fact that Piane's squad did not in­
clude all ofits top performers. 
"It (Friday's meet) was a real good 
opportunity to get all the guys into a 
race," said Piane. "We didn't double 
up for too many races, so a lot of 
people could run." 
Nearly all ofthe Notre Dame com­
petitors placed in the top four 
places, while eight of them won 
their events. Miller was the only 
multiple winner, as he was one of 
just a few people who competed in 
more than one event. 
The Irish victories came in the shotput (Chuck Lanza), 60-yard dash and high hurdles (Miller), mile run (Ed Juba), 440-yard run (Dan Shannon), 880-yard run (Jim Tyler), 300-yard dash (Miller), 1000-yard run (Tim Cannon), long jump (Joel Autry), and triple jump (Gary LeKander). Because it was a non­scoring meet, though, Notre Dame could not officially count the meet as a victory. 
Ball State, DePaul, and the like were relatively easy pickings for the Irish -at least when compared with the competition that the runners who traveled to the Millrose Games in New York and the Goodwill Games in Chicago faced. 
In those two very prestigious meets, the Notre Dame entrants ran into _some of the toughest competi­tion in the nation and in the world. Understandably, the Irish did not 
Professional Business Managers 
U.S. Navy Supply Corps. has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified appli· cants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to im­mediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 
*SYSTEMS INVENTORY MANAGEMENT *ACQUISITION CONTRACTING 
, *COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
*FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT STARTING SALARY $17,000 with benifits, rapid advancement: QUALIFICATIONS: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age Limit: 30. CALL us at 1·800·382·9782 or (local) (219) 256-.1455 *Navy Representative "on campus" 1 & 2 Feb. at the Student Union. 

Place BOOKSTORE Date MONDAY J FEB 6 Time Deposit Required $ NONE 
2:00-4:00 PI MI 

~'ednesday, February 1, 1984 -page 9 
fare quite as well, but the ex­perience of facing some of the best athletes in the world proved more valuable than wins against inferior competition. 
Notre Dame'stwo-mile relay team of Jim Moyar, Jeff Van Wie, John McNelis, and Mitch Van Eyken found the going awfully tough as the only Irish athletes in the Millrose Games. The group finished seventh in the event, not quite as high as they had hoped to place. 
"Our first leg was OK, but we weren't leading after it," explained Piane. "I think that it had a bad effect on the others." 
The group made up for its uni­mpressive showing in the Goodwill Games, though, as it got off to a bet­ter start and finished second to an outstanding University of Chicago Track Club squad with a time of 7:38.25, qualifying for the IC4A's, another prestigious meet which is run late in the season, in the process. 
There were some other Irish run­ners competing in Chicago, none of which placed in the top three in his event. However, senior Ralph Caron 
· did an outstanding job in the 3000­meter run, placing first among the collegiate runners in a school­record 8:13.68. 
The distance-medley relay team of Cannon, Shannon, Andy Dillon, and Juba was the only other Notre Dame entrant to reach the finals. The relay team finished fourth and its time of I 0:02.9 was good enough 
to qualify it in the IC4A's. 
the other Irish competitors, Mil­
ler, Bell, and Patterson did not fare 
too well. Miller failed to qualify in 
the hurdles as he competed against 
the likes of Rod Milburn, a former 
world-record holder. Bell had 
similar problems in the 55-meter 
dash as he had to face sprinters like 
Calvin Smith, the current world­
record holder in the 100 meters. 
Patterson was unable to get off a 
legal jump in the long jump com­
petition. He, too, faced some of the 
toughest competition in the world, 
including Larry Myricks, one of the 
top few jumpers in the world. 
All these failures aside, though, the track team has overcome the ab­sence of some key competitors to perform as well as can be expected. In little more than a couple weeks, nine individuals and two relay teams have qualified for the IC4A's. 
Piane hopes that this number will increase even more this weekend when the Irish play host to the Md­western City COnference Cham­pionships. 
"I hope to get one more guy to qualify in the three-mile run," says Piane. "(Injured middle-distance runner) Jim Tyler should qualify, and maybe a long jumper, too. Joel Autry is only a quarter-inch away." 
Considering that it is still early in the season, Piane might find he may have more qualifiers than he will be able to bring with him. 

'--'~·"'"fCorby sl Wed. Night Special 
--------------~----~ 
1]1-~-· 'Corby's Brings 'Aspen' Ito South Bend ••. 

3-BPM Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 8-3Af!1_~spen Night...Free 'Night' Shirts,Raffled Off 
..........1 

'~~-----------------------------~~;:
Collegiate ---~az_z___F_e_s_t_i_va_I_/ 
Organizational Meeting 
Wednesday, February 1 7:00pm Lafortune Ballroom 
I
.

.............................................................................".............. 
A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student for the 
Distinguished Student A ward 
IS 
Friday, February 17 
Nomination forms are available in the Student Governmeat Office in LaFortune, the Center for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 


r 
The Observer 
Rams 
continuedfrom page 12 
early lead. That way we'll be able to 
play our kmd ofgame. 
"We want to control the tempo of the game, and to do that we're going t<> have to get the !;>all inside, play · aggressive defense and really pound the boards." 
Notre Dame continues to benefit from the take-charge attitude ofcap­tain Tom Sluby since the beginning ofthe new year. In his last ten games, Sluby has averaged 19.6 points per game. 
"Tom is playing well offensively because he Is tough to stop," Rlclps says. "He has a lot of confiden~e in his game right now, and we have a lot ofconfidence in him as a team." 
Tim Kempton and Jim Dolan have c6ntinued to play well, both con­tributing to Notre Dame's rebound­ing and defense. 
Forward Ken Barlow caught the eye of his coach for his performance against Mlryland. 
"Barlow has probably been our most improved player, with his good shooting and improved rebounding. 
"The key for us for the rest of the season is to play consistently and do the little things better," Phelps states. "The reason why we're get­compared to earlier in the season. 
ting better is that each guy is now Phelps' departure from Fordham playing his role out on the court." was 13 years ago, and he thinks that Although it is improving game by too much has been made of his 
game, the team's shooting percent­having coached the Rams. 
age for the year still has not cleared "What counts for this game is that the .500 mark. The Notre Dame we are facing a team that can play head coach points out, however, very well," Phelps emphasizes. 
that his team is playing tough "Their record this year is defense (allowing its opponents on­deceptive. ly 54.3 points each game), and "We're down to the last ten games committing fewer turnovers, so it of the season, and this is where it all has made significant improvements counts." 
~.............................................................................................................
~

I ~rr!tll~;~~g~~~~~t1 . 
JuniOR paRents' Weekenb PR€SJb€nt's 01nneR 
will be held 
Tuesday, January 31 Wednesday, February 1 
7 -9 p.m. in the Nazz. 
NOTE: *Maximum of 61.D.'s per person 
~lllllllllltl•ltiiMIItlllllllflllfiiii~I~~~~~~~!I~I~II~?..~~~~~~IIIIIIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
Wednesday, February 1, 1984--page 10 
JOHN MARSHALL LAW SCHOOL 
1393 Peachtree st., N.E., Atlanta GA 30309 
APPLICATIONS NOW TAKEN February, June, September admissions Day or Evening Classes 
John Marshall Law School admits without regard to national or ethnic origin. 
APPROVED FOR VETERANS 
Graduation from John Marshail meets the requirements ~or admission to the Bar Examination in Georgia and Indiana pnly. ­
(404) 872·3593 

15 THERE A PLACE FOR YOU IN OUR NEW WORLD OF BANHING? 
If you're interested in a chal­lenging career in the new world of bnking, Bank of America may have a place for you. This highly competitive, deregulated world needs talented people who can develop new products and 
services. People who can keep up with advancing technology and keep Bank of America a leader in the financial services industry. Explore the opportunities Bank of America offers in our new warld of banking. See your placement office about upcoming recruiting 
events. LOOK TO THE LEADER'M 
• I 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Rese.-vations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
GRADUATE STUDENTS PRAYER GROUP 
SHARING· SUPPORT· FELLOWSHIP 
Starting January 26 4:30 • 6:00PM BULLA HOUSE 
(Corner of Juniper. and Bt tllg Rds ) 
FOR MORE INFO. CALL .l. STEVE 287-4186 OR MARY 239-5242 

Sponsored By G.S.U. and 
Campus Ministry
mBank of America:..<· 
~«:)cJ[C}l~------------------------------W~oo-n_e_~_~_,_&_b_ru_~,l_,l_9_8_4~-P-~_e_l_l__ 
Bloom Connty 
UH.•"TTI/5 IS REl? I£Af1ER. SIX... f'€Rit<\€T€R IS ~P-11ff. TP./JOfS 


(:tX){l OH MY Ail£ AHA5E. 8R/N0 
~Vt;NS ... 6CXII1N65S ••. 
\ 
7HI5 SOUNVS RA!.PH/6 '?... I Cl't11NOV5 ... HIWf-AVt.RY UM 10!£RAHC£ FOR PAIN, RA!.PH/6.•• 
IN OP6RIIT10N 
I 

Mellish 

Guindon Richard Guindon 

"Now that Jesse has a pacemaker, he's become as accurate, up to 15 seconds a year, as a quartz watch." 
The Daily Cr_ossword 
Berke Breathed 



Gary larson 


2.·1~ 

"Irwin, you'r3 nothing but o spineless,. ... '".,.... ' • .. ~ slimy, gelatinqbs blob ... if you'll excuse 
the pun." 

33 Singer 47 N.Z.abor­Vlkkl lglne 

Campus
• 

•12:15 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Antibody Synthesis," Dr. Byung Kim, Galvin Life ~ciences Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to JCL, I i 5 CCMB 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Research Opportunities in Manuscript Collections in England and Ireland," Dr. Anthony Malcoms, library Lounge 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Rare K Decays," Dr. Maged Atiya, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Seminar, "Sulphurand 


Silicon Containing Reagents in Olefin Synthesis," · Dr. Chi-Nung Hsiao, 123 NSH 
•7 
p.m. -Auditions for Camelot, Washington Hall, ND, Sponsored by Student Union 

•7 
p.m. Fllm, "True-Heart Susie," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 

•7 
p.m. -Basketball, SMC vs Goshen College, Angela Athletic Facility 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Serge Kerval, Library Auditorium, S2 

•8 
p.m. -Keenan Hall Revue , O'Laughlin Auditorium, Ticket required 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs. Fordham, ACC Arena 

•8 
p.m. -Philosophy Lecture, "Lord Maculay's Line-Drawing Argument," Dr. Joel Feinberg, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
7p.m. 

7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 

8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 

o9:30p.m. Op.m. 
llp.m. 
, _11:30 p.m. 
16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 34 Straight Talk 16 Real People 22 Domestic Ufe 28 Fall Guy 34 live From the Met 22 Empire 16 Facts oflife 22 Wednesday Night Movie 28 Dynasty 
16 Night Court 16 St. Elsewhere 28 Hotel 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Police Story/ CBS Late Movie 28 Thicke ofthe Night 

36 Taleof 48 Reminder marvels 49 Bible 39 Resounding measure 41 Airport 50 Loathe ACROSS 33 Central 56 Like a 9 Quality abbr. 51 Ancient 1 Cheering part bump on-of being 42 Ocean Persian words 34 Daysoi­57 Chan phrase dormant precipitate Gulf land 5 Verve 35 Poor grade 58 Approvals 10 Old Greek 44 Evicts 53 Yachting9 Debit 36 Showed 59 Biblical coin 45 Native of 54 Standard 13 Thanks-! concern weed 11 Vended Wise. 55 Pat 14 Dell 37 Tiny 60 Ogle 12 Between 15 Forbidden 38 Bronte 61 Big name fa and Ia Tue~ay's Solution16 Marengo heroine In tennis money 40 Phonic 62 Mideast 15 Bahamian17 Neighbor­41 Musical A M E S S title TALEITHEIndianhood G E 0 l I Dacronym INIT !WED63 Ore car 21 Madeout l I V E D A N G E R 0 U s l y18 Lagoon 43 Chapel DOWN 23 Snlggler's T Afeature in Rome I~N~E.ERRA1 Breathing catch19 Smooth 45 Rye and sound 25 Yielded IP A P E I l S P I N samng raisin 2 Inter­26 Daisy E V ElR fill 0 D E 20 Cltynear 46 Simple 3 Western l E27 See23D C I T E E F I -····•• Chicago shelter ASE.DERBY BAS E D 4 Chaseor 28 USSRclty22 Blades A l47 Corday's Nlll RMjack 29 Old loco-LY.BAK. 24 Ms. Meara Mill S. M 0 l Evictim 5 Escapist motive ••.A 25 Slammer S H A R 0 N• RAT S·~J.J48 Maine lake 6 -and adjunct T A K I N G N 0 C H A N C E S 27 Fine 52 Scrutinize penates 30 Nymphof E R I N•s A B l E.A R E A leathers 55 Lodge 7 Sheltered hills WI N E ••B E E R •r E R R 32 Eject resignation 8 Stingy 31 Percolates 2/1/84 ©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 211/84All Rights Reserved  
STOP! Represent Student Body:  WEDNESDAY  
,Jan. 30 7p.m.: Informational meeting for SBP/SBVP candidates Jan. 30 8p.m.: Informational meeting for senate candidatP.s !Feb. 1 6:30p.m.: MANDATORY meeting for  BEER SPECIAL  
,_ ~v SBP/SBVP candidates feb. 1 7:15p.m.: MANDATORY meeting for senate candidates (All meetings Little Theatre, LaFortune)  Sat. Feb. 11 Undergrad NightD.J. Bill Davis Featuring THE LAW ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~'.~;>ll:.\0.' .­ 


Sports 

The Irish will he counting on a strong performance in theACC. For more on tonight'sgame andSaturday's .from jim Dolan ( shou•n here against Maryland) as matchup at South Carolina, see Theron Roberts' story they take on the Ramsfrom Fordham tonight atBp.m. and Chuck Freeb_y's column on this page. 
Hoping to continue recent reign, Rams visit red-hot Irish tonight 
By THERON ROBERTS in double figures, netting 12.3 Sports Writer points a game. The 6-6 junior also leads the Rims in rebounding, with a 
Fordham trit:s to extend its win­7.'5 average. Samuels is join.:d at for­ning streak over the Notre Dame ward by 6-'5 sophomore Don men's basketball team to three when McCormick. McCormick con­it visits the ACC tonight. Tipoff is set tributes 7.6 points each outing. forH p.m. Starting at the pivot will be 6-'5 
However, the task may he a little senior Dave Roberson, who carries a more difficult for the Rams than win­12.2 scoring average. ning their previous two encounters Tony Mcintosh and Jerry Hobbie has been. Notre Dame is in the midst hold down the two starting guard of a win streak that has reached six sluts. The two have quite a lot in straight. common, besides being the back­
The matchup holds a special sig­court starters for Fordham. They nificance for Irish coach Digger both are 6-2 juniors, and average Phelps. Phelps entered collegiate 10.5 and 10.4 points per game, coaching at Fordham, guiding the respectively. Rams to a 26-3 record in one season Although the leading scorers for before packing his bags for South the Rams play along the front line, Bend. the guards are the key players be­
Fordham's fortune is not as bright cause they run the Fordham four­this season as last. comer offense. The Rams often 
The Rams, now 12-9, lost four of spread out their offense to the four their top players from the 1982-83 corners ifthey have the lead. team which made it to NIT post­"I like their guards because of season play. their quickness," says Phelps. "They 
junior Steve Samuels leads the also play very smart, especially balanced Fordham offensive attack, when they get in the lead and go to and is one of four players averaging the delay to score." 
Indoor track 
Last year at the Meadowlands, the 

Irish were hurt by the Fordham 
delay game. Many times the Notre 
~me defense broke down and 
allowed the Rams to get easy shots. 
While this year's team might have a harder time getting a lead that it can protect, it could be dangerous looking past the Rams toward the South Carolina game on Saturday. 
The last two Fordham games have been against opponents common to the Irish -Holy Cross and LaSalle. The results were also similar, as the Rams defeated Holy Cross, but dropped a tough one to LaSalle. 
On the Irish side of the coin, con­tinually improving play has been converted into six straight Notre Dame wins. 
"We've been playing well and we have two games this week," says Phelps. "We just can't have a let­down after the Maryland win." 
The Irish coach knows that there 

are certain things the Irish must do 
to win against Fordham. 
"We have to jump out and get the 
see RAMS, page 10 

Miller stars during busy weekend 
By MIKE SULLIVAN could have been ifwe had th >se four Sports Editor kids around," said Piane. "Three of them we're really going to miss and 
The I 9H4 indoor track season is the fourth would have really helped hardy out of the starting blocks, but out down the road. We just don't Joe Piane's Notre Dame track team have the people ·w replace them has already seen a good amount of right now." action. This past weekend marked That does not mean that the the busit·st time of the young season remaining squa<l is a weak one. In as some members of the team fact, with more performances like traveled to Chicago and New York, that of Alvin Miller, Piane might while others competed in the ACC. soon forget that he does not have a 
As expected, the results were full squad. mixed. Some athletes put on out­standing performances, while others Miller, the outstanding freshman did not perform quite as well as ex­football player, was the star ofFriday pe<:tt·d. However, considering that night's meet in the ACC. In that the team lost to academic probation meet, which also included teams 
four people who were expected to from Ball State, DePaul, Loyola, and make large contributions, the Irish Valparaiso, Miller finished first in the arc holding their own so far. 60-yard dash, the 60-yard high 
"Our performance so far is just an hurdles, and the 300-yard dash. Not indication of how much better we bad for someone who just started his college track career a couple of weeks ago. 
It was Miller's time in the 60-yard dash that drew the most attention. He posted a time of 6. 1 to tie the Notre Dame and ACC record that has been matched four times, the last time coming in 1974. The race was hand-timed, so the actual time was not quite as fast (the time is the equivalent of an automatically­timed 6.37). However, it marked the second time in two weeks that Mil­ler had run the 60 in 6.1. 
While Miller's accomplishments were the most impressive, he was not the only Notre Dame performer to win over the weekend. Irish ath­letes were victorious in ten ofthe 16 events in Friday's meet, despite the 
see TRACK, page 9 

Wednesday, February 1, 1984-page 12 
Canlrishcontinuethe magic of 'Camelot'? 

huck Freeby 
rts Writer 

Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
For one briefshining moment the south dome ofthe ACC became: 
Camelot last Saturday. The subjects of this frozen wasteland, known 
as the student body, had become restless and quiet for a couple of 
years, but responded in a tumultuous crescendo which "shook 
down the thunder" from the catwalks. Digger Phelps and the Fight­
ing Irish shone like knights on white horses, deftly saving victory 
from the: evil clutches ofa band ofwarriors from Maryland. 
OK, maybe that's overdoing it a little, but the point is this: Notre 
Dai'ne's victory over Maryland was not a fairy tale. Saturday's win 
came through a solid effort by an Irish squad growing in confidence 
with every game. The team seems to he gelling right now, which 
makes the: last ten games of the season look extremely exciting, 
indeed. Nevertheless, Phelps and Co. must guard againM a letdown 
this week, as they have a tough game with Fordham tonight before 
heading into a snakepit at South Carolina on Saturday. 
The Defense Never Rests ...Digger Phelps has always prided 
himself on the ability of his teams to play good defense, and he 
should be busting his buttons over this year's squad. The Irish cur­
rently rank third in the nation in team defense, allowing an average 
of only 54.3 points an outing. In five of the last six games, Notre 
Dame has held opponents to 56 points or less. 
Just as impressive, though, has been the way the Irish "D" has 
frustrated outstanding individuals. Villanova's Ed Pinckney and 
Miryland's Adrian Branch were held to a mere five points each by a 
swarming defense. (In fact, Branch may wish he never got out ofhcd 
Saturday. He was arrested Saturday night for possession ofnarcotics. 
Not exactly a banner day.) 
So while good defense doesn't always provide the most exciting 
basketball for fans, it has brought about six straight wins which tends 
to hold down complaining. 
Ram Rwnblings ...The Fordham game is always something spe­cial for Phelps, who had his first colllegiate head coaching job at the Bronx school. However, he knows the Irish will have their hands full with coach Tom Penders' Rams, who lost to Arkansas by only one and St.John's by four. 
The Rams have compiled a respectable 12-9 ledger behind a balanced attack. Junior center Steve Samuels leads Fordham in scoring with a 12.4 average, but three other Rams a\'erage in double figures. 6-6 center Steve Samuels paces the maroon-and-gold in rebounding with 7.5 caroms per game. 
Overall, Fordham is lacking in size (Samuels is the tallest starter at 6-6), but not in scrappiness, and they will not roll over and die: easily for the Irish tonight. 
Gamecock Chirps ...South Carolina isn't having one ofits better 
years, but Bill Foster's 9-8 Gamecocks are still tough to beat in the 
noisy Carolina Coliseum. The hostile home crowd will be primed for 
an upset of the visitors from the north. 
Carolina has the size to matchup very well with the Irish, and Notre Dame's front line must control the Gamecock inside game:. One of the key people to watch will be 6-8 forward Jimmy Foster, who is averaging 19 points and 10 rebounds a game. He gets plenty ofhelp from 7-foot center Mike Brittain ( 11.3 ppg.) and 6-8 forward BradJergenson ( 10.7 ppg. ). 
.Irish Eyes Are Smiling ...and after winning six straight games 
they should be radiant. Tom Sluby continues to be impresssive in his 
starring role, coming through in the clutch twice last week. 
Meanwhile, the supporting cast continue to fill their roles nicely, 
withJim Dolan dishing out assists, Tim Kempton dearing the boards, 
and Ken Barlow showing improvement in several aspects of his 
game. 

One of the things the Irish will be looking to do this week is give 
Phelps his 250th victory as coach at Notre Dame. The veteran Irish 
mentor boast~ a 248-1 16 ledger in 13 seasons at the hc:lm of Notre 
Dame basketball. Not too shabby a record by any means. 
Pick of the Week ...Since 1300 of you will be at the Keenan Revue on Saturday night, the other 7000 residents can venture over to the north dome ofthe ACC and watch Lefty Smith's hockey team take on Marquette. The Irish icers are now 17-1-0 after sweeping a weekend series from Iowa State, and will be looking to extend their record against the Warriors. 
Brent Chapman continues to pace Notre Dame in scoring, while AI Havercamp, Tim Lukenda, and Marc Guay hold down the number ofgoals by the opposition. The team will be returning home for the frrst time in two weeks, and would appreciate your support. Face-off is at 7:W p.m. 






