Park Construction -page 3 

VOL XVIll, N0.96 
· _the indt:pcn<.Jt:nt ~lladcnt lll'W~papc..-r ~T\ ing notn danIt: and ...aint mar.··.., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1984 

Gary Hart upsets Walter Mondale in New Hampshire 
Associated Press CONCORD, N.H. -Sen. Gary McGovern, the Rev. Jesse Jackson Hart upset Walter Mondale yester-and former Florida Gov. Reubin As­day in the lead-off New Hampshire kew. primary, stripping Mondale's President Reagan was without credentials a<> undisputed front-serioLs opposition on the GOP hal­runner and leaving six other rivals to lot, and even picked up 3, I 56 write­struggle for survival in the in votes in the Democratic contest. Democratic presidential race. Turnout was lower than expected "Many people thought, including because of stormy weather. In the front-runner, that this campaign reports from 247 of the state's 298 would be over tonight," a jubilant precincts, with 75 percent ofthe ex­Han told supporters in Manchester. pected turnout, the Democratic to­"Thiscampaign just begins tonight." tals were: Mondale was heavily favored but 
Hart, 29.843 votes, or 41 percent.

his lead faded over the weekend. 
Mondale, 20,240, or 28 percent.

Hart wasn't ready to claim front­Glenn, 8,702, 12 percent. 
runner status, but drew cheers when McGovern, 4,224, 6 percent.
he declared: "tonight we buried the jackson, 3,985, 6 percent.
label 'darkhorse."' He picked up 41 Hollings 2,647, 4 percent.
percent of the vote, to 28 percent Cransron, I,668, 2 percent.
for Mondale. john Glenn was a fur­
Askew, 809, 1 percent. 

away third. 
Mondale congratulated Hart, In the competition for delegates, saying. "Sometimes a cold shower is Hart led for II and Mondale for 7. good for you," and speculated that Mondale kept the lead, including voters "didn't want the debate to delegates already chosen from 
Chaim Potok, author of The Chosen and The Promise, addresses a capaci~v crowd 
end." Glenn said the results here outside New Hampshire. He had or "pierce that balloon ofinevitability" led for 125, with 18 for Hart and 17 that Mondale would win the for Glenn. nomination. Glenn admitted disappointment 
Novelist Potok strives to balance 
Mondale remained confident, but said Hart was "more limied in saying "I have won one, I have lost the South," where the next set of one. I am ready to contest every primaries is scheduled March 13. 

Jewish past with secular tendencies 
primary." It was another in a long line of 
ByJOHN NEBLO 
Hart's margin stunned even his New Hampshire primary surprises 
StaffReporter guest ofthe Sophomore Literary Fes-Potok's address was informal and staff He carried more than 75 cities -and the second for Hart. In 1972 
tival's third night. Potok said his full of humor. He often told stories and towns, far more than Mondale. he engineered McGovern's strong 
Deeming himself a "battleground keen interest in secular literature to illustrate his main points, using at He held the lead in Manchester, a showing here that propelled 
of cultural confrontation," novelist when he was young was dis-times the emphatic pronunciationcity with a large union vote that McGovern to the nomination. 
Chaim Potok said last night that he couraged by his strict Orthodox and lilting intonation of thc Mondale hoped to claim for his own. The only clues to Hart's victory 
has had to transcend a continuous family. stereotypicaljcwish speech pattcrn.
Worse for Mondale was that since were pre-election polls with 
internal war between his Orthodox The conflict between his heritage The address focuscd on what Potok 19'52, no one has ever won the Mondale losing ground and Hart 
jewish past and his love of the great and his quest for knowledge led him called,"a cor-e-to-core cultural con­
presidency while losing his party gaining. Hart campaigned in near to become what he called, "a bat-flict" which the individual is
books ofWestern culture in order to in 
primary here. obscurity for over a year, but gained become a writer. tleground of cultural confronta-alicnated from his inheritcd tradi­Others on the ballot included momentum with a surprising ifdis­Addressing a capacity audience in tion." After reading Evelyn Waugh's tion. 
Sens. Alan Cranston and Ernest Hol­tant second finish behind Mondale 
Washington Hall as the featured Brideshead Revisited however, Potok described this conflict as "a 
lings, former Sen. George in the Iowa caucuses Feb. 20. 
Potok knew he was called to be a polarization of thc individual and writer. One of thc night's funnier the established norms of thc moments came when Potok society." According to Potok. this described his mother's reaction to conflict is a modcl at round which hc

Executive MBAs get new chairman 
his decision to become a writer. and many other authors havc built "She responded, 'so you'll be a brain thcir works. He cited Flaubcrt'sByMARK POTfER I 0 years experience in business as from the 65 other applicants for the 
surgeon and on the side you'll write Madame Bovary,)oycc'sPortrait of 
StaffReporter well as five years actual experience position. 
stories.'" the Artist as a Young Man, and as a manager." Ludwig said he applied for the job 
A celebrated novelist, Potok is Hemingway'sFairwell toArms as ar­
The recently appointed director because, "I decided I wanted to put best known as the author of The chetypal examplcs of the "model"of executive master of business ad­Ludwig has been president of my skills to work in helping other 
Chosen and The Promise, two wide­and thc novels which most in-
ministration program, Arnold Lud­both the Ludwig Candy Company students with the same kind of ly read novels dealing with Jewish fluenced his writing.
wig, is not planning any changes in and the Seaway Candy Company. He program I had gone through at the men who struggle against their res­
the two-year-old program. was also a co-founder and president University of lllnois." He said he see POTOK, page 3
tictive heritage.

"It is an excellent program as it is. elect of Basic Computer Literacy, "loves" his new job and plans to Inc. move from Manteno, IlL to South The University of Wisconsin Bend soon. Guy Waddell -es­
HPC says campus alcohol 
awarded Ludwig undergraduate tablished the Notre Dame executive degrees in science and management M.B.A. program in last year. It was and he received his executive M.B.A. the first program of its kind in In­

use is OK in official response 
degree from the University of Il­diana Waddell said he retired from 
ByJEFF NIEKELSKI "This is anothcr chance for morc 
linois in 198I. his postion as director because he student response to what is happcn­
News Staff

"felt like my work here was done 
ing in regards to thc alcohol policy,"

"We are very happy to get him. he with the program up and running." The Hall Presidents' Council said said Mikc Carlin, chairman of thewill do a lot for the program," said Waddell suggested Reilly as his re­last night that alcohol is needcd on Hall Presidents' CounciLFrank Reilly, dean of the Business placement, according to Reilly. campus though exccssive drinking "The HPC wants to strongly andCollege. Ludwig will be a "very positively present its altcrnative tomust be discouragcd, in an officialpositive influence in both marketing The executive M.B.A. pror;-~~ ;,ao; response preceding the announce­thc alcohol policy to the llnivcrsitythe program and relating to the stu­40 students in each ofits two classes. 
committee and the Provost,'' saidment ofthe decision ofthe Commit­ArnoldLudwig dents," he said "It is designed to update a manager's tee on the Rcsponsiblc Usc of Keith Vesclik of Morrissey Hall. 

skills." said Ludwig. All of the stu­
Alcohol. The statement said, "the prescncc Any change in numbers or cur­"The director's primary respon­dents are managers who have full of alcohol is needed on campus so 
riculum could have a negative effect sibility is to recruit, interview and time job responsibilities while they that individuals can learn how to on the program," Ludwig said. then submit candidates for the are in the program. More than I 30 The HPC also passed a resolution deal with it both privately and so­
program to the admissions commit­students apply for entrance into the geared t o curb alcohol abuse on 
cially. However, thcre is no place forThe executive M.B.A. program is a tee," said Ludwig. The director also two-year program each year. The campus during last night's HPC 

excessive drinking here at Notre two-year, graduate-level business handles administrative duties for the program will graduate its first ci.lSS meeting. 

Dame." 

program for people who have al­program. Ludwig took over these this year. The council will get as many stu­The HPC said that Notre Damc is a ready had managerial experience in tasks Feb. 20. All of the students take four dents as possible to sign a petition university centered around its
the business world. Ludwig stated, Reilly stated that Ludwig's com­classes per semester. They are also supporting this statement and send "The program has tv..-o specific re­bination of business and academic required to participate in study it to University Provost Timothy see HPC, page 3 quirements: the students must have backgrounds is what separated him groups which meet once a week. O'Meara 


.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, February 29, 1984-page 2 


In Brief 
Michaeljackson's "Thriller" won nest athum 
of the year and the .2 ';-year-old superstar also took six other awards including pop mak vocalist at Tuesday's Grammy ceremony. after hdng nominated fi>r a record 12 awards in I0 categories. The British rock singer Sting and his group, The Police, captured fou t r awards, including best group rock performance for the LP "Synchronicity." Jackson won pop mak vocal for the "Thriller." Irene Cara won pop fl·mak vocal for "Fiashdance." Wearing a spangled uniform with l'paukttes, dark glasses and his trademark sequined white glove, he shared producer of the year with Quincy Jones for "Thriller," and shan·d with Jonl'S again for children's recording for "ET 8 the Ex­traterrl·strial." "Of all the awards I've won, I'm most proud of this ont'," Jackson said in accepting the "FT" prize. -AP 
A baker who grew up with a "severe inferiority 
complex with girls" confessed to slaughtering at least 17 women and 
raping 30 more in the worst mass murder in Alaska history. 
prosecutors say. Robert Hansen. 44, described by prosecutors as a 
"monster." was sentenced Monday in Anchorage, Alaska, to life in 
prison without parok. The bakery owner, with a wife and two 
t·hildren, confessed last week in a conference room packed with 
prosecutors, investigators and police. District Attorney Victor 
Krumm said !Jansen ad t mitted the I0-year spree to avoid embarrass· 
nu-n t ofa long police probe and trial. "He got offon the killing, but he 
didn't like pt·ople talking about him," Krumm said yesterday. "He's a 
cold-hloodnl. rl·morselcss man." Officers said he calmly described 
killing I-prostitutes, nude dancers and other women and raping 30 
others. outlining experiments with handcuffS, elastic bandages and 
chains as restraints. -AP 
ASyrian-Lebanese summit will be held within 
4!-1 hours to find a way to end the violence in Lebanon, the Syrian nnvs agency in Beirut said yesterday. There were new reports that President Amin Gemayel was ready to announce cancellation of lxbanon's pact with Israel as a concession to Syria. Government souru:s in Lebanon had said the summit might begin this weekend. But SANA, the official Syrian news agency, said Gemayel will visit Damascus "within the next 4!-1 hours" for talks with President l-lafez Assad of Syria. Assad has demanded that the U.S.-arranged May 17 agreement bt· abrogated before he will receive Gemayel, and one government source said: "the agreement is tlnished, but the time for declaring its abrogation has yt:t to be set." There have been numerous reports that Gemayel would annul the accord with Israel. but he has l.klayt·d action because ofobjections by some ofhis Chris· tian allies. -AP 
Of IntereSt , 
Three professional women will t;~~~ their 
own careers and offer advice to students and other woml·n who arc in thl· proL'l'SS of rc-t·ntcring the job market during a panel disnJs­sion at 6:50 p.m.. 1-ch. .2'), in thL· llaggar College Center at Saint Mar(s. Dr. Marr E. lkPauw. dirl'ctor of the Counsding and Career lkvdopnH·nt <:l·ntl'f at Saint Mary's; Karen Blue, personnd director at St. Josl·ph Bank; and Lois Kress. •'ersonnd director at Coopers&. Lybrand: willcomprbl· the pand which is part of tht· speaker st-ries -'Pon,ornl through thl· Internship Program at Sainr Mary's. -The ( Jhsert•er 
Eating disorders is the topic or discussion today at (>:_~0 p.m. in Carroll Itall at Saint Mary's. The program will include a 111m and disn1ssions. It is sponsored by the Counsding and Cart-er lkvdopml·nt Ccntl'f. Ml·mbers of the staff will discuss thl' ramitlca­tions ofbukmia ami anorexia. -Tbe Obsen•er 
Tickets for theAlaban-za concert are ,;n sale at the tkkl't ofikl· in LaFortune-first coml', first Sl'rVl'. 300 tickets will bl' sold at S1.2. <;() each for the April l-1 UllllTrt at thl' ACC. -Tbe Ob­
sert'er 

Weather ­
Cloudy with a 40 percent chance of snow 
showl'rs today. Continued blowing and drifting snow. High in mid .20s. Partial ckaring and colder tonight. Low in low teens. Mostly 
sunny tomorrow. High in mid to upper .20s. -AP 
The Observer 
Today's i~sut.' was produc.:cd hy: 
The Observer (I ~~ ~')') 2--tOOO) i' Production Consultant .....................Stt.·vt.· 
puhli!<tht.·d Monda~ throu~h 1:riday and Design Editor......................... Susan O'Hara 
on homt· foorhall ~aturdays. t.·xn·pt Design Assistant.. ....................... Liz Carroll 
dunn~( l.'xam and vou.:alion pt.·riod~. The l.ayout Staff......... l.ev Chapdsky. Eamillc 
Ob~t:rver i~ puhli~hc:d h)· lht.· :"!I uc.knl!'t t)f Cooper 
lht.· l"nivc.:r!'tity of Notrl" Danu-and ~.tint Tvpesellers ......... )ennikr Bigou. Michdlc Mar~··~ <.olkgc.·. Suhst:rjpfiOO!'Io mar ht.• Fanto 
purcha..·d for Jl~ pa war ( s I~ pl'r Neu•s Edilor.........................jl"ff 1-larringlon 't.'mt.'!'ttt.·r) hy \\:rilml( The Observer. Copy Editor.......... .................. Kevin Binger P 0 Box (J. Nolrt.·l>amc,lndiana -f6'l'ih Sports Copy Etlltor ....................... Phil Wolf 
The Observer is a mt.·mhc:r t)fThe A~· SMC /Jay Editor.... ...................jody Radin ~ciated Press. All rt.·produccion righl!tt PbtlltJgrctpi.Jer ........................... <:aroJ <JaJ<·:>­an· re!'tt·rvt:'d 



There is no Notre Dame University~ 
There are more than 9,000 students on this campus, and in our four years here, we are lucky to know I 0 
Bob Vonderheide 
percent by name. The other day, for example, a guy named Steve was 
News Editor 
walking back from a government exam. Crossing the 
new quad where the fieldhouse used to be, Stevl' was Inside Wednesday busy staring at his shoes as people often do when they mentally retake exams in the 10 minutes after the test. 
And as Steve nervously hoped he was right in saying Roosevelt began the age of the imperial presidency, it name can also be quite profitable. While traveling in happened. An innocent remark, a casual comment; she Moscow two weeks ago, he was stopped by a Muscovite had meant nothing by it. interested in his generic grey Notrl' Dame sweatshirt. 
"Hey, Steve," she said. Despite missing its tie string, the sweatshirt sold for To this mind not ready for instant recall, it was a cruel 
S';O. 
trick. Steve frantically looked up and caught a glimpse "No telling what thl' Russians would have paid for a of her face. Oh, what was her name? Think. Think. No Notre Daml' tie," the student wrote to friends back use. His mind was blank. home. 
He answerl'd: "What's up, Mm ...jgr ...?" His reply Probably not much more. When Polish labor leader was cut short by a cough -a simple cough. What a Lech Walesa learned from a South Bend tdevision genius. Of coursl' he knew rl'porter that Notre Dame her name, she will think. It's ,r:-...) had bestowed an honorary just a bad cold that has kept '. ?..) degree on him in May, 19!-12, him from saying it. '----' Walesa was gratdul but 
These and other name rather surprisl'd. He had games are playl'd constantly never hqt,rd of a Ur,iversity in the party rooms, on the of Notre Oame. · sidewalks, and in the Thirty lf"o years~ago the libraril's throughout name NQ~rl' Dame meant a campus. place wherl' Irish Catholic 
Perhaps nowhere is the boys go to play football. It issue of names more impor-was also a year when a Holy tant than at Notre Dame. Cross priest narnl'd 
Freshmen quickly learn that ~ --\\. Thl·odore Hesburgh this is the University of -:__'i/ became president of thl' Notre Dame, not Notre ~ University and vowed to
I 
Dame Univl'rsity a >-..: -0/-j change the academic 
mistake often made by Ann _ / ------,._._, ~ reputation ofthe school. 
Landers when she speaks of ......_____! / ' 1 1---. No onl' can argue that 
her good friend Father tfll.w. f J---!_ ;( / j J-\ Hl'sburgh has not fultllled 
Theodore Hesburgh. -'-'----"'-------'----=-..._..J--''--L......l-..1.-.--his promise. But whether 
It is, no doubt, a hard ll'sson to learn. Some Transp<> the name Notre Dame now holds the same connota­buscs inform visitors to downtown that the next stop is tions as names like Stanfo[d. Harvard or MIT remains in Notre Dame University. After that stop, one would ex-question. pect Collt'ge Saint Mary's to be next. Notre Dame is not 'the hl'·all and l'nd-all of highl'r 
The confusion continues. The premier radio and education, whatever the boasts ofits leadt·rship. But the television station ~erving South Bend calls itselfWNDU, imp<>rtant point to remember here is that the worth ofa which of course could not in any way be affiliated with name is always valued more by the pl'rson or persons the University because if it Wl're, the call letters would who own it. be WliND. ~'-"-~ 
Perhaps the Federal Communications Commission is playing a name game of its own. 
Observer note
The name of Notrl' Dame has long bel'n rl'spe<:ted and honorl'd, and while no one worries that the llnivl'r­sity will change its naml', many administrators arc con­
The views expressed in the Inside colulmn
.~tantly on the lookout for students trying to give the school "a bad name." Most students here think Notrl' are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­Daml''s name is alrl'ady better than it should be. sarily reflect the views of the editorial board 
In fact, onl' Notre Dame studl'nt going to school in 
or staff. London this semester realized that the Univl'rsity's 
•••••••••••••••• .-----------------------------------~


PhllabelphJa CluB
•.Ih . • 
·--.-• 
--. e--• •• 
,~..,.-~ ~~ SPRING BREAK 
(W~1~-,~ tg: BUS
• 

~' ~ Jd)_ .
• 
\ ~ j 1 Sign-Ups: _ ~~ _ ~--Thursday, March 1 
: would like to • 
---c:J-.-:----o------LaFortune 8pm
• 

IIIII ~ r-;J @<11 n£'Cost $70

: hear from you . •
• 


Interested In Taking A Class In Ballroom Dancing? 
Time-Wednesday, March 7 from 6:30pm -8pm 
Place -Regina Hall Basement Lounge on 
Saint Mary's Campus Teacher-Ray Sexton from Indianapolis Cost -$25.00 for 5 weeks (Skip Spring Break) 
•

: Express your 
• 

Ifyou would like to join this class, you 
can 
• opinions • register at the first lesson 
\0

• through a letter • 
THIS OFFERIS LIMITED
• to the editor: TO NOTRE DAME AND
• • .-. •••r.­
SAINT MARY'S STU­
• P.O. BoxQ • 
DENTS ONLY•
• Notre Dame, IN • 
• 46556 • 
----·--~~------------------------------~-----~---------------------------------------------------------------, 
The Observer 





Iraq claims key victory over invading Iranians 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus -Iraq said yes­terday it won the biggest victory of the three-year war by crushing an Iranian attack and driving Iranian forces back across the border near the southern city of Basra. 
"Iraq's flag was hoisted at the last fortified position held by the Iranians at the Iraqi village of al Beidha ... and all enemy forces have been crushed except for those who surrendered," a battle commander said in a cable to Iraqi President Sad­dam Hussein. The contents of the cable were aired by the official Iraqi News Agency. 
Iran had no reports on action near Basra, Iraq's second largest city; Iraq said more than 30,000 Iranians were killed in three days. 
The claims could not be indepen­dently verified. Western reporters are not allowed in the war zone. U.S. officials also could not verify claims but have determined the fighting is escalating fast, said a State Depart­ment source in Washington who asked not to be identified. 

. Ihe ObserYer __ is taking applications for the positions of 
News Editor  Controller  
Viewpoint Editor  Circulation Manager 
1 Photo Editor  Advertising Manager  
Features Editor  Production Manager  
Saint Mary's Editor  
Sports Editor  

Submit resume to Bob Vonderheide 3rd Floor LaFortune 

DEADLINE: Today, 5 p.m. 

F"-'-"'"J'"-'-"'"J'"J'"...o""~...o""~~ ....cco--.....-.....-~.....-~1
........................................................ ....... .............. .............. 

§ ~ §
§ . Music ComRetition ,~ ~
01

§ --~ 8 
~ Acts will compete for the top five prizes ~ § F(iday beginning at 7pm and the winners will ~ ~ put on a show Saturday night at 9pm. § 
~................................................._,........_,............................................................................................~.....................~_,................................................................_,........J 
JUGGLER 

Now accepting submissions for Spring Issue: Poetry, essays, fiction, photography, black and white art, plays. Room 309 O'Shag, NO and SMC graduates and undergraduates. Deadline March 9. Questions-David at289-3079. 


UNIVERSITY OF WARWICK 
* 
ONE OF BRITAIN'S FINEST UNIVERSITIES

* 
5000 ' FULL TIME STUDENTS · 450 ACRE CAMPUS

* 
STRATFORD-ON·AVON 15 MILES. LONDON 70 MINUTES BY REGULAR TRAIN 


SUMMER SCHOOL 4th JULY-3rd AUGUST 1984 

A Bntish studies program designed especially for students from North AmeriCil. Courses for credit in: 
archaeology english political science 
art history history theatre studies 
Fees: US$ 925 (includes accommodatio~;·tuition, field trips etc.) US$1175 (all in, including food) 0 
\ -""'J'J'~ •• .--. IN 

Consult your Study Abroad Office or obtain an illustrated prospectus by Air Mail from Dr. D. Mervin, Director, Summer School (UN). University of Warwick, Coventry, England CV4 7 AL. Junior Year Abroad applications welcome. 
Wednesday, February 29, 1984 -page 3 

·~. 
Bnu.:t' Harlan·

A model of the proposed Shaheen-Mestrovic Memorial Park next to O'Shaughnessy Hall, which is slated to be completed by August. 



Park construction slated for May 
was delayed until a donor could be found. The focal point for the new park
I $ NJlzz $ m... 1
will be the sculpture "Christ and the 
Special to The Observer 
Construction of the Shaheen­Mestrovic Memorial Park on the west side ofO'Shaughnessy Hall will begin in May, and the project should be completed by August, according to officials at the University's physi­cal plant. 
A gift of Ill 00,000 from two long­time benefactors of the University, Mr. and Mrs. Eli Shaheen of Sturgis, Mich., will be used to construct the park and conversation area. 
Frederick Beckman, chairman of the Art, Art History, and Design Department, designed the park more than a year ago, but the project Samaritan Woman at the Well," by Ivan Mestrovic, the noted Yugos­lavian artist who taught at Notre Dame between 1955 and his death in 1962. 
The sculpture is one of Mestrovic's best known works, and a copy recently was molded for dis­play in the Vatican Pavilion of the upcoming New Orleans World Fair. 
Extensive landscaping, erection ofa retaining wall and two conversa­tion areas for use by students in fair weather are included in the plans. The other Mestrovic statues, of St. Luke and St.John, now located at the main entrance to O'Shaughnessy Hall, also will be moved to the new mini-park. 
The Shaheen gift is the latest in a long series made to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. A 1934 


Wednesday Specials 

8-3om Margaritas 95 cents Hot Cheese Nachos 50 cents 
STUDENTS 
Win A Free RCA 131nch Color TV Chances 50 Cents Tix Available In NO Dining Halls AndAtSMC Thursday And Friday I Lunch And Dinner 
Sponsored By The Senior Formal Committee 
Feeling Under Pressure? Tense? Can't Sleep? Learn to Relax • Call 239-7793 And Ask For Tape No. 37 "Relaxation Exercises" 
-COUNSELINE­
Monday-Thursday 4-1Opm 
239-7793 


JUNIORS 
Infonnation and Registration Meeting For Class of'85 Senior Trip 
Thursday, March 1 NO · 7pm Engineering Auditorium SMC · 9pm 303 Haggar College Center 
graduate and owner of the Sutton Tool Company in Sturgis, Shaheen and his wife announced a gift offour fellowships in the Law School in 1948, each valued at $100,000. 
Other commitments included $500,000 for Knights of Columbus scholarships, $1 50,000 to the Cen­ter for Pastoral and Social Ministry and $100,000 to the Athletic En­dowment fund. 
At Saint Mary's College, they con­tributed Ill 50,000 toward the cost of the Angela Athletic Facility and $300,000 for the recently com­pleted bookstore and lounging area The Shaheens are the parents of two Saint Mary's graduates, and he has been of member of the Board of Regents since 1966. 
HPC 
continuedfrom page I 
campus, and that is why the social life in the dorms is of such great im­portanc t e. It is when: students grow academically and socially. the coun­cil said. 
"If the rules that presently exist were uniformly entiJrced, much of the problem would disapp•:ar," said the HPCs statement. 
The Council is encouraging en­

forcement ofdorm party room rules 
and more parties co-sponsored by 
male and female dorms to even the 
ratio of males to females, alleviating 
the problem of going to parties sole­
ly to drink. 
Other suggestions included in the 

responSt: are allowing only beer and 
wine at parties, striving to sponsor 
one non-alcoholic event each 
weekend through Student Activities, 
encouraging the llniverisity to open 
up more social space for non­
alcoholic events, and instituting a 
set of rules disciplining continued 
"drunkenness" by a student. 


Potok 
continuedfrom page I 
Potok said the job of the writer was "to create worlds out of words on paper." But first, one must enter the apprenticeship of the writer which means "reading and writing and reading and writing and reading and writing some more ... you must make the great ones your teachers and live with their works." Accord­ing to Potok. the writer must then ask himself what he calls, "4 o'clock in the morning questions." 4 o'clock in the morning questions are, "the kind of questions you can only . answer at 4 o'clock in the morning, questions like: What am I doing here? Does my life have any real meaning? What am I willing to go to the barricades for?" 
r------------------------------------­
w_edn_e_sd_ay,-Fe-bru-ary-29_,1-984__
View~_o_i_n__t________ -=-pag-~4 
~-­




Is Jesse Jackson prejudiced against Jews? 
I think sonu.:times of thl· Rev. Bailey ~mith, the former president of the Southnn Baptists who onlT rcmarkl·d that "(;od dol'S not hear the prayers of a Jew." Smith wa' immediately llcnounlTd as an anti-Semite, but cooler ­and wiSl·r -lwads prl·vailed. 
Instead of being scorned hy prestigious 

Richard Cohen 
The Cohen Column 
Jews. Ill" was adoptl·d hy thl·m. l'ngaged in 
tlialogul· and sl·nt to braeI. Ill: came out ofthl· 
l'Xperknn· a cha"ised and changed man. 
I am rl·n1indnl of Smith hl-causc sevnal othl·r editors and reporters from the Washing­ton Post and I hall an hour-and-a-half meeting with Jl·ssl· 1.. Jackson. Thl· subject was the al­kgation that Jal·kson l·alkd Jl·ws "~Iymil's" and New York "llymil·town." 
Of the truth of this allegation there should he no doubt. Two Washington Post reporters hl·anl him usc the terms on two occasions. 'kverthdl·ss, Jackson has variously charac­

terizcll the l·harge a~ "not accurate" and not something he can recall. This is the Watergate answer par excellence -the non-denial dmial. 
But J;.<.·kson went further. Instead of ack­nowledging that he made an unfortunate remark. and saying that it wao; a term he heard in his youth and he did not know it was JX'jorative, Ja<.·kson slipped the is.o;ue and in­Sil·ad tried to turn the tables onJews. 
It wa~ thl·y who were "hounding" him. It wa~ they who were "attacking him." It wao; they who were "harassing him." It was they who hall threatened him and his family. Asked who the "they" were, Jackson collapsed into vaguencs.'i. Nevertheless, he said that the cam­paign against him was "too orchestrated to be accidental," and he blamedJews "in gcnual." 
The sad fact is that there hao; been a cam­paign against Jackson hy some Jews. One of them is the notorious Rabbi Meyer Kahane, a z<.·alot who was even too much for former Is­raeli prime mm1ster Mcnachem Begin. Kahane hao; been arrested in Isreal and is an anathema to the American-Jewish com­munity. Countles.o; Jewish leaders have 
denounced him and his vitriolic and hateful 
campaign againstJackson. 
Jackson, though, made no mention ofthese denunciations. Instead, he accused Jewio;h leaders -and the media -ofa conspiracy of silence. saying that the acts and the alleged silence have produced a "climate." So far, he said, he hao; turned the other cheek, refused to condemn or strike back, but others are neit­her as patient nor ao; forgiving. Sooner or later, he said, someone will retaliate. 
I listened to all this in disbelie( What was startling wao; not that a presidential candidate thought this way, but that he would talk this way. Lots of people engage in group-think. They see an individual -Jackson, Kahane ­and see something else, a race, an ethnic group. To them, everyone is a representative ofsome group to which they were born. This is the essence of prejudice-the reason why to the white bigof the black mugger represents most blacks while the black sch<X>l teacher is an exception. 
In fairness to Jackson, he did not carry hi-; argument t<i its ultimate conclusion. lie refused to claim or cite an actual Jewish con­spiracy, pointing out that there arcJews in his campaign and that, at any rate, he lacked any evidence of collusion. But he did confuse the tactics of a Kahane with legitimate political criticism and concerns, stirring it all into a pot to which he affixed the label "Jew." What was clear was that Jackson was not clear. lie is either a man drift ing into prejudice or a man coming out of it. 
This is why I think ofSmith. He said that he had been shaped by where he wao; born and hi-; environment. He wao; a small-town boy from the South, and he wa~ big enough to ad· mit that there were many things he did not know. Others condemned Smith for anti· Semitism. He had a better explanation. lie condemned himselffor ignorance. 
Maybe that is the case with Jackson. lie is, after all, a man who has spent his life battling for civil rights. And when he talks of the problems of women, of blacks, of lfispanics and of the handicapped, it's hard to believe that all of that could be consistent with prejudice. So I think ofSmith. I only wishJack­son would think ofhim, too. 
(c) 1984. "I"M-\l.'zJtington Po!it Company 



See you in 1988, Democrats 
Somu>lll' had hcller phone New York and San FranciSl·o. Tell them to go ahead and hook till' Van llakn tour for July and forget about tht· balloons. the ~lrl·amlTS, the placards. hut· ton~ and lumht-r. too. 

Michael Haney 
Guest Columnist 
Tht·re won't lw any platlilrms nenlnl this year. no nl'l'd for the carnival of demol·racy. till' political convention. Instead. have thl· rl·altor extend till' kase at 1600 Pl·nnsylvania to indudl· the timr year option on the ka.'il' hlTaU~l· it is all 0\'l"f, folks, Ronald Reagan has won. 
In casl· you Wl'fl' not aware. till' Dcmol·rats have recently embarked on their quadrennial folly to find a banner bearer for the party in the pn·sidential election. 

<>nly this year, it should be viewed ao; a con­ll'St to sec who Reagan will have the privilege and plcao;un· ofdefeating in Nm·ember. If the lkmocrats hold to their course of rdging mediocrity. Reagan is a hando;-down favorite in his hid for rl·-decton. 
While many would argue that Reagan still fal.TS such problems as the gender gap. the black vote, and the budget quagmire. the l'Vidl·nl-c: points to Reagan being the first in­cumhc:nt re-elected since Richard Nixon in 1972 due to his politkal savvy and, as some critics would charge, his luck. 
Rl·agan is not only the consummate politician in a JX·rsonal way. combining his ac­ting instincts and quips with an apple pie aw-shucks attitude, but also in a bureaucratic fashion, as seen in his structuring ofthe White 
!louse. 
A main factor in his success hao; been his 
ability to delegate responsibility so he is free 
to direct his attention where hepleao;es. 
WhileJimmy Carter lived in the Oval Office during the hostage debacle in Iran, trying to oversee every detail and ultimately going snow-blind with facts, Reagan is taking a dif­ferent posture towards thing.-; so that during the week of the Marine pullout of Lebanon and the death of Andropov he vacations in California content to let the Secretaries of State and Defense orchestr.lle U.S. strategy and responses. For better or worse, this at­titude seems to work. 
Hut could it be, a'i some <.·hargc, that Reagan's succes.o; and apparent ability hao; only been a result ofthe so-called Reagan luck? Pos­sibly, hut that seems a bit fur-fetched. After all, the successes are too numerous. No, the at­tack seems more to be one of sour grap<.-s on behalf of the Democrats than a statement of truth. 

The fact is that Reagan, despite what the critics predicted three years ago, hao; firmly established himself The Democrats would be wise to regroup for 1988 and avoid a repeat­ing humiliation of 1980. Not only are the Democrats without any major campaign issues, but they seem content to pick a can­didate from a plethora of bores who will pale in comparison to the glib Reagan. 
Ijke it or not. this is the television age where boredom io; the first criteria of~low rating.-; and cancellation. So pull up ,.our favorite chair, grab some snacks and r~lax. The Ronald Reagan Show hao; been renewed. 

P.O. Box Q 

Dry campus 
/Jear l:"tlitor: 
Why is thl· stmknt population of Notre l>aml' so perturbed about the idea of a dry ctmpu~' \Xl' like the idea. Just think of the hl·ndits. No mort· raincoats. No more umhrd· las. No more rubbers. No rnon· hig puddks and no morl· 'now. And best of all. no morl· maintl·nantT ml·n running over our hikl·s with 'nowplows. Thl'Sl' are just a few of the int1nitc hl'lwl1ts of ;t dry campus. 
We do not know how till' l'nin-rsity plans to l'XlTllte this idea. but rumor has it that Ukrhe and Elkrlw arc designing a huj...c. gold­l'fl doml· to encompass thl· entire c.·ampus. 'J he wonders of modern scil'nce! We applaud till' administration hlr thl'ir thoughtfulnl'Ss and nmsidcration in regard to thl· well being of the student population. With a dry campus. 1Ill' sl mknts of:'l<otre l>aml· will hl· I Kiln ahk to pursUl' a Jill-oLil"alkmic l'Xcdknce. 
In nmdusion we would like to applaud till' ;tdminiMration for pulling Notre Dame once mort· in the lilrdrolll of innovation in Anll'ricm l·ollcgc society. Wl· Sl'l' thi~ as a trend to he. Soon every: campus in America, lll"Ck thl· world, will hy cry·ing to be dry· to ltlllow thl· l'Xamplc ofNotre Daml·. Bravo! 

Timothy Fre,Kh 

Right stuff 
DearEditor: 

It is indc.-cd -a shame that the.· Askew cam­
pOJign has dtTml·d it necessary w fl•proach 
l'OnSl·icntious and dedicated Republicans for 
their hard work in bringing about a new coali­
tion ofconservative interests. 

Given, however, that the Askew campaign 
is, after all, a Democratic organization with 
Democratic motives, I am not surprisc:d by 
1heir recourse to schl·mes dt-signed to mis­
lead Rc.·puhlicans into furthering selfish, 
Democratil' gains. 

"N.D. Conservatives for the Right Stuff" are 
wholly Republican. unaffiliated with the.· 
Democratic John Glenn campaign, and have 
no motives hut to promote conservative. 
Rc.·puhlican concerns. james Sears 
TIIS I'OlNIN6 IN AN INTUIVILIJ. Dl WILL SJ!AIIl lilA 'llMXQTS llMT UlN IT CIWS 10 IJVINt KIDS. Sill'S JUST UK£ OT!lA IDlN ONLV trlT AlALlY 
()((OUR$( 

The ObserYer~ 

1'. 0. flux (_J. :Vutre /Jame.l:V -i6556 ( 219) 239-5303 
Tlw ()/JS!'1't'er i~ till' independl·lll nl·wspaper puhlishnl hv tht· students ofthc l ·ni­vcrsily of Notrl· I>OJnJe du Lac and Saint Man..s Colkgl·. It docs not nc.·l-c:ssarily rcllcn thl· polidl·s of the administration of l'ithn institution. The news is reported as a<.·­curatdy and 01s ohjecti\'dy as pos~ihlc. l ·nsignnll·ditorials rl·prcsentthe opinon ofa majority ofthl· Editorial Board. Comml·ntarks. kilns. and thl· Inside Column present till' \'icw~ oftheir authors. Column ~palT is a\'ailahk to all members ofthe community. and till' fnT expn·ssion of \'arving opinions on campu~. through letters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board DepartmentManagers
Editor-in-Cbief...............................David Dziedzic Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn I Controller...............................................Alex Szilvas 
NewsEditor.................................Bob Vonderheide 

Advertising Manager.........................jeanie Poole 
NewsEditor....................................Mark Worscheh 

Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto 
SaintMary'sEditor..................Anne Monastyrski 

Systems Manager...........................Kevin WiUiams 
SportsEditor .................................Michael Sullivan ViewfJ<Jint Editor................. ,., ..,. ........ ~h fjcher 
Founded November 3, 1966 
FeatUTl!S Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Pboto Editor..........................................Scott Bower 

I 


~ports Briefs 
John Shumate, former Notre Dame and NBA star, left his position as an assistant coach on the Irish basketball staffafter last season to become head coach at tiny Grand Canyon College in Phoenix, Ariz. Now, the National Association oflntercollegiate Ath­letics (NAIA) has placed Grand Canyon's basketball program on probation for the rest ofthe season for failing to file eligibility certif­icates by Feb. 1, Grand Canyon officials announced last Friday. The ruling, though, will not result in any game forefeitures nor affect the Antelopes' chances for post-season play or scholarship situation. ­
AP 
An NVA track meet has been scheduled for tomor­row. Field events will begin at 6:30 p.m. and track events will start at 
7:45. -The Observer 
The Weigh-ins for the Bengal Bouts will be held from 4 
p.m. to 5:30 p.m. tomorrow afternoon. They will take place in the Boxing room in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
The Windsurfing classfor Free University begins tomorrow. The class will be held in Room 116 of O'Shaughnessy Hall at 8 p.m. It will go on every Thursday for three weeks. -The Obseroer 
l The Skateboard Club of Notre Dame will hold an organi7.11ional meeting on tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. All interested should a t ttend Ifthere are any ques­tions, call Bob at 1489. -The Obseroer 
A mandatory Aspen Ski Trip meeting is 
scheduled for today at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. -The Obseroer 
Wednesday, February 29, 1984 -page 5 
An indoor soccer invitational wm be held 
this Saturday at Saint Mary's. The tournament will include teams from Saint Mary's, Indiana, Marquette, Michigan State, Notre Dame, and Weaton. Games will be played every hour beginning at 9:30 am. Admission to the event at the Angela Athletic Facility is free. -The Obseroer 
Stepan Center will be closed for recreation beginning tomorrow and continuing through Saturday, March 10. The Bengal Bouts will be going on during that time. -The Obseroer 
The interball ~meet was held last night at Rockne PooL Zahm hall accumulated 40 points to win the meet over Stanford, which had 33 points. Pangborn was third with 26 points. Only two women's halls competed, and Lewis destroyed Pasquerilla West, 76-35.-The Obseroer 
The ND Water Polo Club will be holding an or­ganizational meeting today at 7 p.m. at Rockne Memorial. All in­terested are welcome to attend. Ifyou would like to practice in the pool, come at 6 p.m. Ifthere are questions, call Mike at 1532. -The Obseroer 
The NVA downhiJJ skiing tripto Royal Valley 
has been cancelled for the rest of the year. Members of the group 
may obtain refunds at the NV A office between 8 and 5 daily. -The 
Obseroer 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will be 
meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are invited to attend -The Obseroer 


Ruling allows USFLto sign undergrads 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-A federal judge has ruled the United States Football League's regulation barring the sig­ning of underclassmen is uncon­stitutional, a league attorney said last night. 
A clerk for U.S. District Court Judge Laughlin Waters said a deci­sion had been reached in the suit brought by a former Arizona football player, but would not be made public until today. 
Observet 

sportswriters!!! 
There will be a meeting for all current sportswriters and those interested in writing on W ednes­day, February 29, at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. 
If you cannot attend, call Mike at 239-5323 before the schedul­ed time. All copy editors are re­quested to attend also. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFonune Student Cemer, accepts classified advenising from 9 a.m. umil 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of· Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, ei!her in person or by mail. Chargto is I 0 cents per five charac­






Classifieds 
ters rday. 
NOTICES  lost. TAN CASHMERE SWEATER on Feb. 21 also a CASIO CALCULATOR WATCH at the GMAT tests in the  FOR RENT  I I  TICKETS  W.R the real woman says Hi! Get Well wishes to my sick roommate.  RIDERS WANTED TO GO TO ROCHEs­TEA,NY FOR SPRING BREAK.! WANT TO LEAVE 3/16 EARLY AFTERNOON  
Engineenng Audrtorium Please call Ron  Morna, being taken at McCandless room  AND RETURN 3/25.CALL FRANK AT  
at 277-8452 d Found. REWARD  308.  1374.LARGE  BRE  ASTEO  WOMEN  
PREFERRED..  
ATIENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­ SAVE A LIFE!!!  Erin  
HERS! Surf's up but our prices aren't. From just $109.00 ­spend 7 tun-tilled days in sunny Florida. can lor yourseH or or~ a small group and travel FREE! Great for clubs, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 36&-2006, ask for An­nette. Are you on need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Trainong! Challenge• Ad­venture' SCHOLARSHIPS' ARMY  FOUND: What looks like a car key by the Archilectural Bldg. Call Paul Bundschuh at 3108 to identify and it's yours. LOST. BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. PINK AND SUP-OVER. I LOST IT A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO OR EARLIER. PLEASE CALL BUDDY AT 8278 ANYTIME.  'HOUtlES FOR ·s4-·ss SCHOOL YEAR. FURNISHED. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS. CALL277-3461 L..__w_A_N_TE_o____.l  My lather will KILL me d I don't come up wrth Marquette tickets for him and his visiting friends. He's VERY popular. but also very weaHhy, so money is no problem. Call Jamie at 8704. Thanx. 1 PERSONALS L  Hey look, whiskey sour mix! The parlor. orange bursts. Tnpp. squirt cheese, yum! Wham! Warn your splashed roommate now. Goc:x:l Time! Systems Quote of the Week. Check the unrtsr  LOST: 2 hours of Joann Chavez' l~e! Somewhere between Holy Cross and Stanlord on Friday night between the hours of 11 :30prn and 1:30am. H you have any infonnation regarding this passage of time please contact her con­cerned friends. THANK YOU! THE FIGHT OF THE SEMESTER: Ro­dent Division: Marina-Laura del Ray defeated Dave Martin wrth a 3rd round  
ROTC! See LTC Bob Skonner or CPT Anne Roeman in the ROTC Buolding (239­6264) ENOUGH!II Hey guys. cool d wrththe sweats and jaCk­ets. ol<ay? Hwas ONLY the Loberty Bowt• EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30  LOST: NO SCHOOL RING, 101< GOLD WITH SMOOTH BLUE STONE. IN­SCRIPTION AVE MARfA WNM 84' REWARD UPON RETURN. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 8278 OR RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND DEPT. IN ADMIN. BLDG. THANK YOU.  SOPHMORESI Interested on becoming an Army Officer? Interested on Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skonner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building (239­6264). RIDE NEEDED: To Rochester, N.Y. or Buffalo for Spring Break. Will share usual! Call Terry at NO. 8875 or 8876.  OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. COSMOS FEVER ......... CATCH ITII!IIII  L.Fuka DEAR DAVE, SOMEONE IN DAYTON IS THINKING OF YOU RIGHT NOW. PnT CLUB BUS SIGNUPS THURSDAY MARCH 1 LAFORTUNE UL THEATRE 7:00P.M.  KO. Next opponent-Ex RA Joel Teglia. MARK BRADSHAW Ia sick In bed ­thin blooc1 Come on by and punch him out. .. he can't hit back. Can I call you MJ? Oh, you MOOSE, you MOOSE. I really wouldn't feel right about rt d you didn't..  
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL IS COMING SOON• STAY TUNED TO THIS BAT CHANNEL FOR MORE OET AILS. TO THE GIRL WHO WANTS HER BRA BACK YOU KNOW, I THINK WE CAN WORK SOMETHING OUT HOW ABOUT IF YOU MEET ME IN THE  YO! To he who accidentally took my green Notre Dame windbreaker from Senior Bar on Wednesday. 2-22:1. You'll find my name on the back of the tag. 2. I can lurther positively identify rt. H you would toke to return d. call Chipatx8728 or drop rt off at the Lost & Fourod in the Adm. Building. H would be greatly appreciated.  Looking for a new or used GUITAR at a lairty reasonable price. Call Tun at 1528. Need Riders to DALLAS, TX for Spring Break. Call John at 8367  Whatever happened to John Anderson? namdam a si zerimaR craM ASPEN FOR SPRINGBREAK 2 SPACES OPEN $265 5 DAYS-6 NIGHTS SDAYUFTTICKET  KIRK'S LAW OF KIRK'S BIG BUTT: THE SIZE OF MY BIJTT IS DIRECTLY PROPORTIONAL TO THE NUMBER OF PUSHUPSIDOEVERYDAYAHHHHH~ RIGHTZEKE  We're three poor students who recently got caught for climbing the Ad. Building. Uncle Jim gave us $300 in fines. H you care to donate to our unsuccessful en­deavor, call Phil or Rob at 8251 or drop your money by 1118 Grace. All contribu­tions will be graciously accepted. Thanks, Phil, Rob. and someone from Cavanaugh who wants to remain unknown  
HUOLE SATURDAY AFTERNOON AT  Desperately need ride to Toledo Friday  CALL2M-4391  
TWO. ILL BE WEARING A TEE-SHIRT AND BLUE JEANS  LOST. Silver Class Rong wrth Red Stone  3/2-3/4. Call Beth SMC 5405.  MJW How about a bowl of milk? Love. ME  The T ARDIS is in the library disguised as an elevator. Arod you though! that all those  
SPECIAL INVITATION: H you would ike  Inscription T JM Call Beaver 8348  RIDE NEEDED TO GREENSBORO NC OR VICINITY FOR SPRING BREAK  Real Programmers don't comment their code. II rt was hard to write. rt should be  Michael. Wanna take a nap? Red  missing people were JUs! lost in the stacks!  
an opportunrty to earn EXTRA CASH  Found. Chain wrth cross at Stepan courts  WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL  hard to understand.  Joe. The craze in Fla. this Sprg. Br1< is  
whole you are on school, please jOin us for a presentation and group ontervoew at the MORRIS INN COUNCIL ROOM. WED. FEB 29 AT 7:30 prn. Unusual opportunrty  Tuesday afternoon Call Steve at 1670. lost. Gold mens N.D. class ring wrth blue stone. JMU 84 inside. $50 reward. Call  CINDY 234-9521 1 RIDE TO CHICAGO AREA ON FRIDAY -CALL TOM 1004  CavanaughB Wednesday night 8PM  Bare Backs FINO ONE! CLARK KENT! GO FIND A TELEPHONE BOOTH FAST! BELLE TELEPHONE  PCP-Today is the day your mother told you about. Hope ~·s a good one-1'11 be thinking of you. xoxo Annie Seton  
to earn extra oncorne white setting your  Jim 1572.  over the hockey rink  
own hours. JOIN US!  NEED RIDE TO D.C. MARCH 1-4. LYNN  DAVE CLARK, "HEY BOY, YOU LOOK  
REWARD lor return ol bookbag wrth EE  7126  Cavanaugh Basketball  PRETTY  CUTE  IN  THEM  JEANS!"  
NEED  A  REUABLE  STUDENT  TO  books onside lost 2/21  at South Dining  LOVE, SHORTY  
POST ADS (PART-TIME, YOUR OWN  Hall. Call Ed 3110  RIDERS NEEDED TO DAYTON THIS  For the Fun of It!  
HOURS)  ON  COLLEGE  BULlETIN  WEEKEND FOR ND-UO GAME. CALL  PAUL FROM HC--Free tour anytime. Ill  To MAMA D and the other members ofthe  
BOARDS IN YOUR AREA. GOOD PAY,  3LOST  ITEM  OF  TREMENDOUS  JOHNAT1131.  even get the bathrooms straight! The girl  greatest family on earth. Just two more  
STEADY INCOME. WRITE ROOM 600, 407 S. DEARBORN, CHICAGO, IL 60605.  VALUE. IN MY POSSESSION FOR OVER 18 YEARS. IF FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT MIKE OR ANY P.UN.T. OF­ NEEDED: riders to BUFFALO this wknd. 3/2-3/4 call Ubby at3435  GO SIEGER-BEAT LSATS!!!!! Fr. Ted is really Doctor NO.7  from CASPER,WY Claire S. Congratulations  weeks and I'll see you all again' I am real­ly pleased wrth my effort this semester and I know that rt would be nearly impos­ 
JPW PROOFS ON DISPlAY!-LAST CHANCE TO ORDER IS WED. 11-4 in  FICER!  GOING TO DENVER FOR SPRING BREAK?  Beer Bongs Made toOrder, SMC 5485  If you were born 16 years ago loday. you woukl be four years old.  sible without everyone· s overwhelming support. I love you all! Tom  
NAZZI!  HELP!' To whoever accidentally took my  Well I need a ride, so d you have room in  Amy  ATTN. MR. GOOOWENCH: You and  
Summer Sales Positoons. Average ear­nongs $2700. Sell yellow page advertosong lor Notre Dame and Western Michogan  navy btue/grey-hght blue winter tacket from the Bertino-Oavod Campus View party on Sat. 25. Please return II lm freez­ing! Call Terry at NO. 8875 or 8876. or  yourcar and you need another passenger call Maripat NO. 7877 LOOKING FOR A NEW OR USED  YYPES  II is all in the eyes YYPES -YYPES!!!!!!!  -G.  CAREER TIPS FOR SOPHOMORES AND JUNIORS--What can you do now for later? 3:30-4:30. Am. 222. Admin. Bldg. Wednesday. Feb. 29. Call Joan Mcin­ people like you enhance discrimination against women of ND when you print those daily degrading ads. I am offended by those crude, immature, and cruel  
Unoversoty Campus Telephone Oorec­tones. Spend 5 weeks in Noire Dame and  drop rt off at Lust arod Found in the Admin. Bldg. Thank You  ROOMMATE, MINE IS LEAVING WITH HIS GUITAR! CALL MARK AT 1528  RENALDO H.-COOL  tosh. 239-5200, to sign up.  ..jOkes." I ask you to please stop. -Paula Miranda  
5 weeks on Kalamazoo  Car necessary.  THE  GREAT  BOOK5--THE  GREAT  THE ATLANTA  BRAVES...AMERICA'S  
No summer school students. lodgong and one meal per day proVIded whole K1 Kalamazoo Qualified students should can Unoversoty Oorectones. 1-1!00-334­ lost: 1 pair ol Navy dress pants last week. II found. call Mike al6835.  FOR SALE  MINOS. MEET FACULTY AND STU­DENTS OF THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES. MONDAY MARCH 5.1984. 7:00PM. GRACE PIT.  TEAM! JPW PROOFS ON DISPLAY! -LAST CHANCE TO ORDER IS WED. 11-4 in  All else hasn't failed, why are you boys PUNTing?' Gowrththe  
4436. for more onformatoon by March 31st.  LOST:A GRAY DOWN JACKET AT A  NAZZ!!  PARTY  
Ask for Barbara Noeukor1<  PARTY AT CAMPUS VIEW ON SATUR­ HAPPY  McCauley, Kraemer. Meehan. Duda  
DAY NIGHT. CALL JOE AT 234-91141F  Want to know what's really going on in the  BIRTHDAY  Help a lonely,desperate  and SUN­ SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICERS  
LOST/FOUND I  YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENED TO IT. LOST ­Navy Caribou backpack on SAGA. Any inlonnaton. please call Susan: 264­ Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a free sample  KAREN  Love, Your brother,  BURNED student get together wrth his honey for the weekend. Contribute to the Michael J Kelly-Kathy Brown rendezvous lund.  Vote March 5th NOW UNTIL SATURDAY THE LAND  
5516  copy, call Paul at 277-4851.  Bill  CHEESE RECORD CAN BE VIEWED  
LOST HELPII 141<1 gold earnng. shteld  LOST. In the Morrtsey Hall lobby yeter  CARTRIDGES  $30.TAPES(TDK  &  HEY LISA OF WALSH(SMUT LADY). HOW COME THE FRONT OF YOUR  FROM 6:00-6:05pm I~ ROOM 1004 GRACE HALLIII NO, THIS ISN'T A  
shape. 1.25 on. doameter REWARD!'! d  day: 2/28 a dark blue paor of mittens.  MAXELL)  $2.50 CALL  DAN  MEAKIN  Maria. Sorry about dinner. H really was  DRESS HASDRINK SPILLED ON IT? J &  "PARTY CODE" FOR WHOM IT MAY  
found please call 234· 1170 after 5 best  found PLEASE call Dave at 288-3526  277-3306  good though  A  CONCERN!!!  

Wednesday, February 29, 1984-page 6 

The Observer 
Looking for top-ten finish 

SMC swimmers ready for NAIA 
By KATHLEEN NICHOLSON 
Sports Writer 
Aftt.·r completing their first win­ning st.·ason in swimming history with a 4-_3 record, ten members of the Saint Mary's team will travel to Arkaddphia, Arkansas this weekend to compt.•tt.· in the 1984 NAIA Swim­ming and Diving Championships. 
Last year the Belles managed to place an impressive thirteenth out of a field of approximately forty-nine teams, and the much improved team hopes to fare even better this year. 
"We are considerably better than last year," said Coach Scott Trees. "Our goal is to finish in the top ten at nationals and, more importantly, to improve all ofour times." 
The individual team standouts are senior captain Gail Casey, senior Rosie Whalen, sophomore Amy Studer, and freshman Kathleen Ken­nedy. 
These individuals are supported by an impressive group of relay teams. Heading the relay teams will be junior freestyler Ellen Byrne, ac­companied by sopi:Jomores Anne Cushing and Joyce Murtagh. Fresh­men Julie Gschwind and Margaret Manion also will contribute their talents in their first taste of national collegiate competition. 
"The returning swimmers have gained confidence and are working harder than ever," coach Trees said, and the new swimmers have filled the gaps created by the loss of 16let­termen in 1983." 
Although the qualifying times for this year's competition have dropped considerably, the in­dividual swimmers and the relay teams have been seeded very well for the upcoming meet. 
Casey, who is by far the greatest swimmer that Saint Mary's ha.~ seen, is seeded in the top five in four 

encers 
continuedfrom page 8 
( normallly)." 
DeCicco believes that, after the Junior Olympics in Portland and with minimal practice, his "junior" fencers were not properly prepared to go to Illinois. Nevertheless, the Irish were able to rebound and go undefeated overall in the men's competition. 
"I do know this," said DeCicco, "We're going to have to get serious this w t eek ifwe're going to expect to do anything (in the championship tournaments in March)." 
Coach DeCicco's women's fen­cing team also enjoyed some success on Saturday, as they took two out of three matches in Illiois to go 13-S for the year. 
The Irish had no trouble downing Washington, 16-0, and Purdue, 15-1, but came up short against highly tauted Wisconsin, losing 9-7. 

Freshman foiler Pia Albertson ( 3 7-2 on the season) was a perfect 6-0 Saturday. Also unbeaten was sophomore Janet Sullivan, as she went 4-0, moving her record to 21­
I2. Senior co-captain Sharon DiNicola (25-16) and freshman Cindy Weeks (20-13) each went 4-2 for the day. 
Both Irish teams will be in action Saturday morning at the Notre Dame ACC Fieldhouse where they will host the 1984 Great Lakes Cham­pionships. Top competition from across the Midwest, including last year's defending Great Lakes cham­pion and national champion, Wayne State, will be vying for an automatic birth into the men's NCAA tourna­ment to be held on March 20-21 at Princeton. 
Lee's BBQ 
Available for Private Parties ·Dinner or Beer· 
call 237-9167 
for more info 


Do You Have What It Takes? 
to be 
COMMITIEE CHAIRPERSON FOR 1984-85 S.U. 

Applications and jobdes:ription available at 
Student Activities Office Deadline for applicationsisMarch &(Tuesday) New Committees 
-Personnel -Publidty -Musical Entertainment ·Calendar ·Student Businesses ·Special Events -Cultural Arts -ldeasand lswes -Movies -Servims · ·Campus Entertainment 


CHIMES 

The St. Mary,s College literary magazine is now accepting manuscripts for its spring issue. 
SUBMIT: POEMS-STORIES-PLAYS 

photography-art work To: CHIMES c/o Wester 310 Madeleva Hall St. Mary's College Deadline: March 12 
N 
events (SO-, I 00-, and 200-yard free, and I 00-y.ard IM ) in her final col­legiate competition. Her classmate Rosie Whalen is also seeded well in her two individual events -the I 00-and 200-yard backstroke. The duo, accompanied by veteran Amy Studer, should he able to guide their teammates to the top-ten finish they want so much. 
Studer, in her second national competition is also seeded in the top five in her four individual events and should produce some exciting times. 
Following in the upperclassmen's footsteps, Kennedy, having broken several varsity records this year, will test her talents in the I 00-and 200­yard butterfly at nationals. 
The relay rosters, as of now, are quite tenative. Coach Trees has been doing some last minute juggling to assure himself of five optimum teams that will yield a maximum number of team points. Since relay scoring is twice that of the in­dividual events, Trees is being ex­tremely careful when composing each relay team in hopes that his squad can boost themselves into the top ten team finishers. 

With the season going as well as it 

has for the Bel .les, a top-ten placing 
would seem an appropriate finish for 
the 1984 squad. Trees and his up­
perclassmen have been working 
hard the past two years to build up 
the Saint Mary's swim program and 
establish the school as a dominant 
force in the NAIA conference divi­
sion, and, with any luck, 1984 will be 
the beginning of a long line of suc­
cessful swim seasons for the Belles. 
I
PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS MANAGERS 
L 

U.S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to immediate managerial positions in one ofthefollowing areas: 
Systems inventory management Acquisition Contracting Computer Systems Financial Management 

Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance­ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average pre­ferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age limit 29. Call Navy Toll Free: 
1-800-382-9782 

Navy representative will be on campus 6 -8pm Mon. 
Lcl.'5 get }{.I."RISH Thts St. Pa.--l:r1 c.ks l:>ay !.'/ 
at the Placement Office. 



~«:)cJ[(l~----------------------------w-oo_n_e~-a-y,_F_eb_ru_acy__29_,_19-84---p~-e--7 



Berke Breatlnl 

~ARN£P TIM!~ 
5~ ANY 

VARMINTS, TH05e TRY YOUR 
GIIM6? NOT 

HUNltf(S. HUNTeR. 
YET 




Dave 

TIIANK YD14 FOR 
(I 
WHEW! TillS JOB FO~ YOUR CLIENT~ 
YOUR (ONCERI.J
ATTORNEY SllE/?NAN... 
011 GCP! 
BEHAVIOR. 

/ 
·TH~NK YOU, .JuDGE. 
..0 


Richard Guindon The Far Side 




It's not paranoia. These people really don't like Ed Foster and they are following him. 
The Daily Crossword 

14 Perfectly 
ACROSS 1 Elec. units  36 Giggle 37 Ballot  51  Racemose plants  6 Green island  
5 Edgar the painter  39 Chopin opus, e.g.  53 Straight rod  7 Pol. party 8 Ancient  
10 -avis  41  Secluded valley  55 Extol 57 Catalonian  Mariner's cry  

42 Actress 60 Shores15 Uneven 

Papas 62 Yearning 9 Take action 63 Seed coat 
on a bill 

16 Time 29 Fixed fruit 10 Sampled periods ina way 64 Way again 17 Lohengrln's 33-Gatos 65 Principal 11 In­66 Expansive
bride 34 Fish (bored)
67 Traditional
feature 
tales

18 Very close, 
12 Move fast 
44 "South 68 Trees
as a race 
13 Inquire
Pacific"

20 Adorn 
19 Credit's
hero

22 Think DOWN 
partner
Feathered 

21 Blame 23 Carte crown of
46 Vowel 
group

24 Social Osiris 24 Pillars
47 Catered 
groups 2 Beauty mark 25 Presley
49 Dickens'

25 Big bird 26 Marianne
Little­
3 Make the 
the poet 

grade27 "Do-50 Refrain 4 Aver 28 London others..." syllable 5 Excoriate gallery 
ACCENT is here 
~ 
~~'~0~~ 
~<:' ~'\ 
~~r 

Suddenly, Professor Liebowitz realizes he has come to the seminar without his duck. _._, 
30 Attention­48 Render grabbing defenseless 
31 Certain 52 Lurefisherman 54 "What's 
32 Festival 
in-?" 
of Apollo 
55 Elf 35 Miss Adams 
56 Foray 57 Genesis38 Highly name
desirable 40 Ovals 58 Space43 Out of this 
filler world 
59 Cacklers 45 End of a 60 Proverb palindrome 61 Lean-to 
Tue~ay's Solution 
Campus 
2:30 p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 
3:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to Script, 11 5 CCMB 
4:20 p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "What Is Chaos, That We Should be Mindful of It," Dr. Joseph Ford, 118 NSH 
6:30p.m. -Film/Discussion, "Understandiri.g Eating Disorders: Anorexia and Bulimia in the 1980's," Nancy Schoeneman, Carroll Hall, SMC 
7 p.m. -Film, "Only Angels Have Wings," O'Shaughnessy Loft 7 p.m. -Opening Art Exhibit, Luis Camnitzer, Isis Gallery 
7:30 
p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival Lecture,John Engles, Library Auditorium 

7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Abortion Clinic," SMC Library, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life, 

7:30 
p.m. -SOLA General Meeting, CSC Rm. 124 


8 p.m. -Discussion, "Argentina in Transition," Guillermo O'Donnell, Edguardo Viola, and Hector Leis, Sponsored by SOLA, CSC Rm 12-t 
TV Tonight 
6p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS News  
28  ABC's World News Tonight  
7p.m.  16  MASH  
22  PM Magazine  
28  joker's Wild  
34  Contemporary Health Issues  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  Family Feud  
28  Wheel ofFortune  
34  Straight Talk  
8p.m.  16  Real People  
22  College Basketball  
28  Fall Guy  
34  Great Performance  
9p.m.  16  Facts ofLife  
28  Dynasty  
9:30p.m.  16  Night Court  
10p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hotel  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Police Story/ CBS Late Movie  
28  Thicke of the Night  


© 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2129/84 All Rights Reserved 


A new lecture senes sponsored by the Student Union and·hall academic commissions. 
~eaturing informal discussions w1th students, faculty, and administrators on various issues and topics. 
Beer 
82 Days 

D.J. Bill Davis To Graduation 


lhcOia'rVt-r/l'aul (:ifdrrlli 

The Notre Dame rnen's and women'sfencing teams ream:/ of19-1, while the women wouru/ up at 13-5. were t'ictorious tbis.ul('f!kend at a fimr-team meet at For details, see Michael O:nniel's story belou•. Illinois. The nu'11 finislx'rl the regular seaSt:m with a 
Fencers finish regular season with impressive win at four-team meet 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
'lltc Notre Dame men's fencing team cndnl its regular season at Il­linois over the wcckt:nd as the Irish took four straight to end up 19-1 on the sc.:ason. 
lltc Irish downed three Big Ten opponents in Wisconsin, 22-S; Il­linois, 20-7; and Purdue, 23-4; and took Washington ofSt. Louis in a 27­0 whitc.:wash. 
"We started offthe tournamc.:nt by losing our very first two houts against Wisconsin, which put me in­to a little hit ofa st:arc," commc.:nted Irish head coach Mikt.· DeCicco. "But the team really sucked it up, and the next thing I knew, the score was 14-2." 
"I wao; impressed with the way our sahn: tc.:am fenced," continued DeCicco. "We fenced without the services of John Edwards ( 27-1 on the season), and the lineup of Mike Janis, Tony Const>li, and Don 
Women's swimming 

Irish do well at championships 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
Although it may not appear so at first glann·, the Notre Dame womt·n's swim team actually pcr­forml'd very wdl this pao;t weekend 
in  thl'  Midwest  lndl'pendl'nt  
Womt:n's  Swimming and  Diving  
Championships.  

Aftn all points wt'rl' totalled, Coach Dennis Stark's swimmc.:rs finished in the middle of thl' pack. taking sixth place in the fidd of l'lcvt:n. Thl' Irish were able to win only thrt-e of thl' evl'nts in which tht·y were l'ntered. 
Still, the meet was no failure for the tl'am. In fact, according to Stark, the swimmers accomplishl'd a l'reat dl'al more than wao; expected. 
··t wao; well plt-ao;ed," he said. "Since we won the North Star Con­ference meet the week heforc, I didn't know what to expl'ct. It had hecn a tough three-day meet, and I thought we might not he ready for another meet so soon. I had mixed emotions, but ao; it turned out we rl'ally swam well." 
The most impressive part of the weekend meet wa-; the number of Johnson fenced well for us." 

On Saturday, the sabre men were .:H-1, moving their squad's mark w 164-23 for the year. Junior captain MikeJanis ( 40-3) was a perfect 10-0 against the weekend competition. as wao; sophomore Tony Consoli ( 28­
2). 

"DonJohnson ( 3S-6) wao; the only one to lose a bout (going I0-1) and that augurs well," said DeCicco. 
In the epee, Junior captain Andy Quaroni led the way with a perfect 9-0 performance to move his record to 34-3 on the year. 
"Andy Quaroni rcaJiy bounced hack (after two losses to Wayne State) and he fenced three young men who arc very good fencers in the epee," explained DeCicco. "He came out undefeated -he had a nice afternoon." 
Freshman John Haugh ( 29-8) and sophomore Urian St. Clair (31-9) also had good outings, going 9-1 and 7-2, respectively, in helping the epee squad move its record to 146­
nt·w varsity records set by the 
women swimmers. Eleven new 
marks were set, a remarkable nom­
her considering that only twenty 
events were held at the meet. Stark 
wao; especially pleao;ed with these 
records. 

"llte competition was keener, so 
we didn't win often. That was ex­
pectl'd. Whenever the kids can set 
new records, it shows they swam 
wc.:II, and it makes me happy." 

The most exceptional performer 
for the Irish over the weekend wao; 
freshman Suzanne Devine. She wao; 
the victor in Notre Dame's only 
three wins in the meet, and, in addi­
tion, she finished first in one prelimi­
nary heat. 

In thl' process, she set new varsity 
recordo; ofS7.79 seconds in the 100­
yard huuertly, 2: I 0.83 in the 200­
yard individual medley, I:09.50 in 
the I00-yard breaststroke, and 
2:06.1 S in the 200-yard hutterfly. 

"It's very encouraging," said Stark, rcfcring to Devine's performance. "It makes me feel better when someone can come in and do some­thing like that. Three firsts and four record-; are very impressive." 
Many other SWimoners also per­41 on the year. 
lltc foil squad ( 139-48) enjoyed some success also, a-; sophomore Dave Reuter (22-8) led the team with a perfect 7-0 mark. Senior cap­tain Chris Grady also continued in his winning ways, going 10-3, to move his record to 29-12 on the seast>n. 
Two of Notre Dame's top fencers, however, enjoyed a little less success in the foil. Freshman Charles Higgs-Coulthard, leading the Irish in wins with 43, was 4-3, as he equalled his previous number of losses to go 43-6 on the year. Freshman Mike VanderVelden, who proved to be the best Junior Olympian in the U.S. last weekend in Portland, was S-2, moving him to 32-8 for the seast>n. 
"He (VanderVelden) absolutely had no control of distance and time," said DeCicco, "I know that he would eat somebody like that (his opposition) up for lunch 
see FENCERS, page 6 
formed extraordinarily well. Karen Kramer set new varsity records in both the I00-yard and 200-yard backstroke. Julia Boss acquired the t record for the SO-yard freestyle, leading off the 200-yard free relay. Monica Walker swam a strong race in the 400-yard individual medley and set a record. 
lltree more varsity records were set by the Irish rday teams. The 200­yard freestyle relay team set a record of I:42.04, while the 400-yard team of the same discipline broke the old mark with a time of 3:4358. The 400-yard medley reb.y team met with similarsuccess, settinga record of4:10.82. 
Although none of the above produced Irish victories, they still were very impressive races for the swimmers. 
The Midwest Invitational wa-; the last action of the seast>n for the women's swimming team. Having achieved a victory in last week's North Star Conference Meet and many impres.o;ive performances by young swimmers during the past year, the future looks very good for !Wotre Dame women's swimming. 

Wednesday, February 29, 1984 -page 8 
Dayton last obstacle for Irish before NIT 
huck Freeby 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
Well, with a record of 17-10 and an NIT bid all hut sewn up, it's 
time to shift this seast>n into cruise control and not worry about this 
week's contest with Dayton, right? Wrongo! This Saturday's game 
with the Flyers is important to the Irish for two reao;<ms. First ofall. 
this is a big rivalry hetween two successful Midwestern Catholic 

schools. Second, and more importantly, th t e Irish would love to have 
some momentum as they head into the NIT, and a win over the 
Flyers would certainly supply that. 
However, the task won't tx· an easy one, ao; Don Donoher's club 
has proven they can play with the hest, heating teams such a<; DePaul 
this year. lltis one will he a dandy. 
Troubles in Paradise ... O.K., mayhe Dayton is not a city you 
would call a paradise, and it certainly has not been one for Notre 
Dame basketball teams. The A tartan floor, lxJisterous crowds, and 
good Dayton teams have given the Irish all they could handle in 
recent years. 
Some great Irish teams have heen handed stmnd defeats at the l JD 
arena For example, thl' 1973-74 squad Oohn Shumatl', Gary 
Brokaw, Adrian Dantky, etc.) took a 24-1 record into the final game 
ofthe seast>n at Dayton and wao; blown out, 97-82. The 1977-78 team 
which went to the Final Four came offa win over Marqut·tte only to 
lose by seven points to a Flyer squad which included Jim Paxstm, 
(>6-59. Sure, the Irish have won their share ofgames in Dayton, but 
the liD arena can be a real house ofhorrors. 
1970: Carr's Finest Hour ... It wao; not a house of horrors on March 7, 1970 when Austin Carr put on thl' finest individual scoring display in NCAA toumaml'flt history. llte Irish crushed Ohio, I 12­82, but the real story was Carr. l11c junior guard from the nation's capitol was all over the court, scoring61 points, includinga 2S-of-44 shooting performance from the floor. It wao; far and away one of the finest displays of individual bao;kethall ability ever givl'n hy a Notre Dame player. 
After producing three years of high-scoring games such ao; this one, it is no wonder that Carr holds nearly every scoring record in the Notre Dame record books. It alst> io; no wonder that after witnt·s.<;­ing pl'rformances such ao; this one, many students belil'ved ACC stood for Austin Carr Coliseum. 
Flyer Follies ... Dayton coach Don Donohcr ret·ently became the winningest coach in thl' school's history, and he attributed that fact to S<>me ofthe "great" players that attl'nded the university. One ofthose great players is seniorswingman Roosevdt Chapman. oneof the nation's top scorers thio; season. Currently, Chapman averages 
21.1 points per game, while averaging 9.3 rebounds an outing. 
The Flyers also have several quality players to make a strong supporting cast. Center Ed Young (he scored the game-winning bas­ket against DePaul) averages nealy IS points pergame, while sopho­more guard Larry Schellenberg directs the Flyer attack from hio; point guard slot. 
As mentioned earlier, the Flyers have been tough on the Irish in past games at the liD Arena Thio; year hao; heen another banner seast>n for Dayton at home, ao; it has posted a 12-2 record in its ver­sion of the friendly confines. Considering the problems the Irish have had on the road this year, it seems they l'ertainly have their work cut out for them this week. 
Irish Odds and Ends ... When the Irish try to get the job done this weekend, they will have to do it without a pair of their best worker t s. Phelps ha-; decided to rest Tim Kempton and JoJo Buc­hanan another week, wisely deciding not to risk an aggrevation of their leg injuries on the tartan surface in Dayton. 
The Irish have done nicely with their n·maining talent. Of<:ourse, the excellent performances of Tom Sluby have heen well docu­mented already, but they overshadowed a brilliant week by fresh­man Donald Royal. The 17-yl'ar-old from New Orleans, who is quickly becoming a fan favorite, showed hl' can rl'ally sky with a vicious slam (all that wao; miss t ing on his flight to the bao;ket wao; the movie and "Fao;ten Seat Belts" sign) and thrl'e blockl'd shots against Marquette. 
And let's alst> give st>me credit to the Irish hench, which hao; come on strong in recent weeks. GuardsJoseph Price and Scott Ilicks have each made fine contributions in the la'>t few gaml's, and they will need to keep it up for the Irish to succeed thio; weekend. 
Pick ofthe Week ... What's thl' matter, sports fan? You say you want to go to the hockey and bao;ketball games thio; ~eekend, but you can't make it back from Dayton in time on Saturday night? Well, s t rand up and cheer, because WSND-AM has come to your rescue. They will broadcast the Dayton game live on Saturday afternoon, aJiowing you to listen to the game in the afternoon and attend both sessions ofthis weekend's hockey tournament. 
Which brings me to the pick for this week: Lefty Smith's Irish leers. They will be hosting the CSCHI. Playoffi; on Friday and Saturday night in the north dome ofthe ACC. Friday evening, Iowa State and Marquette faccoff in the opl'ner at 6:00, while the Irish and Illinois State clash in the nightcap. Saturday evening, the losers meet at S:OO 
p.m.. and the winners meet for the championship at 7:30 p.m. 

! 


