SPB pageS 

VOL XVIII, NO. 86 the imkpenuent ~tudent new~paper ~tT\ ing notre dame and ~aint mary·~ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13. 1984 
ND professor predicts little change in policies with Andropov's death 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
StaffReporter 
The death of Soviet leader Yuri V. Andropov has left the world wondering what changes his succes­sor will bring. 
Director ofSoviet Studies at Notre Dame. George Brinkley, told The Obsen,er, "I don't think his death will have much effect at all. The issues arc bigger than one man and the Soviet lt:adership is more than one man." 
In a statement issued by the White flouse staff, President Ronald Reagan hoped that the new Soviet leader could work with us to find a common ground and establish a mutually beneficial relationship. 
In another statement, Secretary of State George Shultz hoped that the new leadership in Moscow would strive for constructive cooperation in the search for peace. 
Many Western leaders have made plans to attend the funeral tomor­row to strengthen East-West rela­tions. Reagan is sending Vice-President George Bush to head the American delegation. 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany, who did not attend Brezhnev's funeral, said he would go to Moscow. Other West German of­ficials hoped that Andropov's suc­cessor would move towards more positive East-West negotiations. 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, who did not attend Brezhnev's funeral, is considering attending Andropov's. 
China, which had just signed a S1.2 billion trade agreement with the Soviet Union, said relations be­tween the two countries could not improve substantially until Moscow removes three major ·obstacles ­Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, 
Soviet support for Vietnam's oc­cupation of Cambodia, and Soviet troop presence on the Chinese bor­der. 
One big question that remains is who the new leader will be. All of the possible candidates are mem­bers of the Politburo. That body, composed of 12 voting members and eight non-voting members, set overall policy for Russia. 
A senior State Department Krem­linologist predicted that Konstantin Chernenko, a former Brezhnev 
protege, would fill Andropov's 
vacancy. Chernenko was appointed 
head of the funeral commission. At 
72, many consider him too old for 
the position. "I think he fulfills all of the qualifications except ability," Brinkley said, "He might be brought in as a temporary arrangement. I don't expect him." 
Another possibility is Mikhail Gor­bachev. At 52, he is eight years younger than any other member of the Politburo. Although he is an agricultural specialist he has been taking increasing responsibility in foreign affairs. According to Brinkley, he has been traveling abroad in the past year possibly in preparation for some higher posi· tion. 
A third likely candidate is Grigory Romanov. "I think as a middle man Romanov might be the best bet," Brinkley said, " He's not too young or too old." At 61, he has long been considered a top prospect for leadership of the communist party according to The New York Times. 
With the new leader, policies are not expected to change significant­ly. Althogh Andropov died Thursday, the government had operated without him for the past six months. 
Some analysts have said that a new Soviet lead~r. iftoo young, might not remember the destruction caused by nuclear weapons in World War II and have no personal experience to make him want to avoid war. Brinkley did not think this was a valid concern. "They relive World War II every day ofthe year," he said, "They want to avoid war." 
"Relations between us and the Soviets are bound to improve, be­cause they are so bad," Brinkley said, "They are not aggressive or bel­licose but they do not anticipate any real solutions with us." According to Brinkley the Soviets think our main problem is capitalism. Brinkley said the Soviets probably did not withhold the announcement of Andropov's death. "It probably took them three or four hours to get their statement together," he said. The death was believed to be sudden be­cause had Andropov been in serious condition, his son would not have been travelling abroad. 
Nuclear program begins at SMC 
By ANNE MONASlYRSKI 
Saint Mary•'s Editor 
Where does the Saint Mary's campus com­munity stand on the nuclear arms race? 
"Three Minutes to Midnight: an Exploration of the Nuclear Dilemma and the Ways to Peace," a three-day program of discussions, prayer services, films and videotapes explores the worldwide issue by making it a campus issue. 
The program began yesterday as homilists at masses throughout campus focused on the 
U.S. Catholic Bishops' pastoral letter. "The Challenge of Peace; God's Promise and Our Response." At three minutes to midnight the Christian Life Commission lead prayer services in each dorm. The Union of Atomic Scientists maintain a "doomsday clock" in Washington: the clock currently shows the world at three minutes away from nuclear destruction. 
During the three days of the program mem­bers of the College will wear green lapel rib­bons as a reminder of the motivating factor behind the program -hope -which green traditionally symbolizes. 
Professors are rescheduling today and tomorrow's classes around the planned events and a series offilms and videotapes will be shown throughout the day Monday and Tuesday. 
The program will conclude with a Mass for Peace and Justice in the Clubhouse at 9 p.m. Tuesday. 


Campus debate 
Candidates for Student Body President and Vice President debated last night in the Knights of Columbus Hall. Chris Tayback, left, and his running 
Observer Photo/Tbom Bradley 
mate Kelzy Fitzgerald are running against Rob Bl!r­tino and Cathy David. More information on the can­didates and their views is on page 5. 
Proposed changes for LaFortune include pizzeria and laundromat 
By DAVID SARPHIE mittee is considering moving the SeniorStaffReporter student radio station, WSND, from its present location in 
A pizzeria next to Chautauqua, a O'Shaughnessy to the third floor of laundromat in the basement, and the LaFortune, next to The Obsen,er. addition of student government "The close proximity of the office space on the second floor are newspaper and the radio station will just some of the ideas being con­allow an easier dissemination of in­sidered by a special student govern­formation," Callaghan said. "It will ment committee looking into also be easier for Jim (McDonnell, further renovation of the LaFortune director of student activities), who Student Center. has to keep tabs on WSND." 
"Basically, we're looking at a lot of Chris Brence, station manager of possible changes to make LaFortune WSND AM/FM said the new facilities more functional," said Brian Callag­would offer sufficient space for the han, student body president. new equipment that would be 
Among the priorities of the com­necessary when WSND AM switches mittee is the reduction of wasted to FM next year. "Actually. it might space on the second floor near the mean a reduction in our total space, current student government offices. but the new studios will be much "We hope to use one of the wide more space-efficient than our old entrance hallways for office space," studios," he noted. "The new studios Callaghan said. This might allow will also have much better sound­several class officers to move their proofing." offices into the second floor, he The proposed move of WSND to added. the third floor coupled with the 
Callaghan also said that the com-move of senior class offices to the second floor would allow the Dome to move to the I I/2 floor, Callaghan said. 
Dome editor, Jane Bennett, said that the new smaller facilities V''Ould not harm the publication. "We don't need all the space we have now." she said. 
Callaghan said the committee is also studying the effects of moving the campus hairstylist and travel bureau from their present facilities in Badin's ground floor to either the basement or first floor of LaFortune. "Most campuses have their businesses located in one place." he said. "By doing this, we hope to generate as much traffic as possible in the student center." 
Director of Student Activities Jim McDonnell said the move of the businesses to LaFortune would not reduce the amount ofsocial space in the center. "The purpose of the renovation is not to eliminate social 
see SOCIAL page 6 

Vonderheide named editor 
Bob Vonderheide 
The Observer general board has elected Bob Vonderheide as editor-in-chieffor 1984-85. 
Vonderheide, a junior chemical engineer­ing major fmm Lexington. Ky.. expresses op­timism about the future of the newspaper. "We've made a turnaround this year in several areas." he said. "Not only have we drastically improved our coverage of the campus, we have also revamped the business side. The im­provements will continue. 
"Considering the resource~ available to our organization, The Observer staffdoes an excel­lent job of producing a comprehensive and widely read college daily. I'm proud to have the opportunity to contribute to its growth and development." 
Vonderheide says that The Observer will greatly benefit from an outstanding returning staff. "I am fortunate to have several excellent 


see EDITOR page 3 

Monday, February 13, 1984 -page 2
The Observer 
In Brief How to get a job 


A senior engineering student incurred 
burns to her face and upper part ofher body in an acid explosion in a 
mt·tallurgy laboratory of the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering late 
Thursday alh'rnoon. Christina Richards of Huntsville. Alabama was 
tn:atnl at St. Jost·ph's Medical Center and released. A prdiminary 
investigation of the inddent revealed that Richards was mixing an 
add solution in preparation of ctching metal surfaces when it 
hecamc ovcrheated, forcing a lid to blow offan ethylene boule.-Tlie Obsert1er 
A mansion dynamited ror a training fitm to show hcer salesmen how sales can blow up in their faces burned longer than expected -it erupted in tlames again early Sunday, 12 hours after thc blast. As a precaution, firefighters were among the es­timatt·d 200 people: who witnessed the fiery explosion around 3:45 
p.m. Saturday, hut they later left thinking the wreckage had cooled. They were called back to the scene around 3 a.m. Sunday after what was left of tht· brick mansion hurst into tlames, Baltimore County police Cpl. John Grumhach said. The house, which had been sdwdukd ti>r tkmolition because its 40 acrc-propcrty is to become part of an expressway, was blown up as part of a training film for Coors bt-cr ~aksmen. The t·xplosion was mt·ant to introduce some ~0 minull:s ofserious sales tips ti>r Coors salesmen. After the explo­sion, a narrator asks: "Did you evn havc a tinw when you had a sale and it blew up in your face?" -AP 
America's legal system, mcsmnized by the thrill of courtroom baules, has grown "too costly, too painful, too destructive. too ineftkil'nt ti>r a truly civilizt·d peoplc," Chiefjustice Warren E. llurgn said Sunday before a meeting ofthe American Bar Assodation. In a speech that also attackt·d somt· ti>rms of Iawver advertbing and frivolous lawsuits. ht• said the lcgal profession l1as lo~ttlw public's confidence by sticking to its adversarial tradition. In his annual addrt·ss to the ABA'~ winter convention. he repeated tht·mt·~ of lawyt·r n>mpett·ntT and conduct that have marked his I5-ye;~rs <~~chid justice. lk rouched offa furor in I<)7'7 by saying half the nation·~ lawyers may not he qualitkd to rt·prescnt clients in court. llurgn ~aid tht· proliferation in lawyns is ont· ofthe problems. Tlwrc arc more than 600,000 lawytTs in the country today. with 
5.000 nt·w lawyt·rs joining their ranks each year. More than 500,000 lawyt·r~ art· ABA mt·mht'fs. De~pite what should he increased com­pt·tition. the cost of hiring a lawyn is going up. ht· said. -AP 



Of Interest 
Buying a computer? A free seminar on purchasing the latest offt-rings of Apple. IBM and all the n:st will take placc tomorrow at -., p.m. in the auditorium of the Mcmorial Library. The two-hour seminar, entitkd "Computers: ASrep hy Step Approach ro the Purchase Decision," is sponsored by thc Notre Dame Crcdit Uni­on. Featured speaker is Dr. Terry Lukas from General Micro Corpora­tion ofSouth Bend. -The Obsert't'r 

The ice is melting, the birds arc singing, and ultimate 
frisbee games have bcen rejuvcnated on the quads. 

But this cheery portrait ofSpring may serve as a grim 
countdown for at least one slice of the ND student 
body: graduating seniors who have yet to find a job. 

Second-semester senior -the very term implies the inevitable search for that all-encompassing collegiate goal: a joh. 
And as rime ticks away (last Friday markcd the 100­
day-till-graduation point), more and more seniors are 
beginning to feel pressures of the lack-of-a-job 
syndrome. 

Unfortunately, many students ignore one ofthc most 
valuable joh-scarch resources on campus; Career and 
Placcment Scrvices. A virtual warehouse of career in­
formation, Placement Servkcs ironically has remained 
thc unknown source in studcnts' lives. 

For the liberal arts graduate, however, Placement 
Services is of limitcd appeal. Traditionally, campus 
recruitcrs have con­
centrated their efforts on 
scniors trained in practical 
fields such as cngineering, 
business, accounting and 
electronics. In fact, students 
in specialized fidds are far 
ahead of liheral arts grads in 
the numher of intervicws al­
ready held. 
Arts and Letters majors have been left out in the cold. Of the 330 organiza­tions and company divisions holding campus intcrviews last scm<.·ster, only 40 were recruiting Arts and Letters -and most of these were not exclusive to the liheral arts student. 
Considering thc vast 

surplus of Arts and Lettns majors at Notn· Dame. it 
seems a nimt· that Placement Services does not try to 
line up mon· liheral arts interviews. 

Perhaps the sorry statt· of affairs for Arts and Letters hits home after examining some sohcring statistics. Un­employment in thc 20-24 age group has been hovcring at 12 pcrcent, and liht·ral arts grads dominate those with college degrees standing m the unemployment line. Moreover, last ycar's number ofjob offers droppcd a third from the 1 9H2 level, according to College Placc­ment Council estimates. 
On the whole, Career and Placement Services should be commended for its efforts. After all, the office is a serrlice to sLUdcnts. The University is in no way obligated to find jobs for its prospective alumni; that responsibility lies squarely on the shoulders of each scnior. 
Simply put, seniors cannot rely on the administration for guidance in their job search as they have for so many 

UNDERGRADUATE COUNSEL FOR STUDENT RIGHTS 
Help and assistance is available to those who are involved in disciplinary matters and to those who need advice concerning their student r-ghts. 
Contact Bob Gleason 283-1847 
Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton of Detroit's 
Catholic Dion·se will discuss "The Rok of Women in the Church" during an H p.m. talk today in the Lihrary Auditorium. The program is sponsort·d by the Studt·nt linion Academic Commission. Gumhlcton was a memhn of the committe<: that drafted the American Bishops' Pastorall.t•ttt·r on war and peace and is working with Bishop joseph lmesch ofjoikt on a similar letter omlining the rolt• ofwomen in the Catholic Church. The bishop recdn·d internarional attention when ht· visitt·d American prisioners in Iran at Christmas, l979. -The Ohsen•er 

Jeff Harrington 
Assistant News Edito:­
Inside Monday 

other facets ofstudent life. The in loco parentis model breaks down as seniors are forced to scnd out their own cover lettcrs, rcsumes, and follow-up letters. 
The word coming down from recent grads is: makc your moves now, if you haven't already. Even juniors should bcgin to check inw their career options as the semester winds down. 
For most seniors, success has come relatively easy. Being accepted by ND in the first place attests to a cer­tain tenacity to succeed. In taking the step from high 
school to college, many ND students could choose from a broad selection ofoffers. 
This time around, however, no one will come knocking on the door heg­ging for cmployees. 
Among the 965,000 spring 'H3 graduates, nearly a third left campus without johs and tcns of thousands arc still looking for per­mancnt employmcnt, according to a recent U.S. NeU'S & World Report ar­ticle. A surplus of some 300,000 graduates will most likely he stitled in the joh market during the next scveral ycars, the artidt·. continues. 
To compcte in the hahy hoom gcneration, ND scniors have to avoid the ultimate enemy in the joh search process; procrastination. 
Taking the initiative to act now just might save a lot of job misery down the line. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

Weather . 
The Obsener 
The: Obst·rvc:r (I W'i ~'>'> 2--Hlllll) ;, puhli~hc.:d .\1onday throu~h Frit.lay and on horne.· footh.tll !'lallndapi, c.·xn·pt durin~ c.·xam and "'~lc.·ation pc.:riod."t.. The Observer i!'l puhl1!-ohn..l hy the: ~tw..lt·nr~ ol tlw t nivt·r~ity of :'\locrc.· Dame and Saint \l;1ry·~ <.ollc.-J<t.' "uh~criplion~ my hl· 
purl'llil!'tt.'d for Sl'; pt:r ~'l'ar ( sIc; pc.·r ~l'lllt.''ll'r) h} wntin~ The Observer, P 0 Box t). Noire Danw. Indiana ·l6';';C, 
The Observer is a mc.·mht.·r(lfThcA!tt· .'it)t.'iatt·d Pres..'t . .'\JJ n·produnion ri~hh art· rc.:~t·rvc.·c.l 
Productto11 c.onsultant .......Su:n: 1"<1:-.ter Ot•sign Editor.... .. Troy Illig [)(•sigll Assistant.... .... Chc.·ryl Pilon I.<IJ'"III.\taff ... .... .. ...l.l'\' Chapdsky 
Kathkc.·n Nichol~on 
Clairt· Knc.·ut.·r 1)•J)(•selters.. . ...... IIiII lli!(hducheck Nkk Lll,.l:tmc.· Mkhdk hmto ,\'c.•u•s Editor... . ............. Tom Mowle.-Copr f:'tlilor..... .. ....John I ka!-!ly Sport." (;O/JJ' Editor .............. Ed Konrady l'ieii1Joint Lt~)'tJII/ ... ...........J,,Jm ~1t:nnc.·JJ :VD J>uv Jiclitor.. .. Earlllak<·r .\,11(. /)a)' l:ilitor... .. ......Jot!)' lla<lkr Ad Desi~-:11.. . .................... Mary Eastc.·rday Pl.mtograpbt•r.. . . .. Thvm Bratlll'r .\'t•u·s \fJl'l·ia/l.al'OIII .. Hoh Vonderhc.•itk 
\1ark \\:'or~chd 
COUNSELINE A Mrvlce to the NO community 239·7793 HOURS: 4-lap.., Mon·Thurs. Counsehne '·~a tree. contidential telephone service that offers protess•onally raped materials that cover a Wide variP!~.~~..~.tudent concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fuendthtp BuiiC:hng 7 Oealtng w1!h Constfuct•ve C"httsm 8 Deahng Wtlh Anger 9 Ufld•rttand•ng Jealousy ana How to Oeal wllh n 10 How to Sly "NO US Becom•ng Open 10 04hers t8 0.11ng Sk•lls 30 An••tiY and Posstble Ways to Cope Wllh II 32 How Ia Deal w•lh lonhness 33 How 10 Handle Fears 35 8u1khng wlt·flreem & ConhcHJnce 37 Relaung Elerc1s•s 38 Cop1ng w•th Stress 39 Female Se• Role. Changes ana Stress 44 learnmQ rq Ac,epr Yourselt 61 Wt'!alts Therapy & HO'tN to Use II 83 How to Cope -N1U·. a Br()l..en Reiiii!OnSh•p B'S Ut'lderslanomg Gnet QO Hl!llpmg a Fflend 160 Early s•ons or an Alcohol Problem U51 Respons•ble Oec•s•ons About Onnt.mg 402 54tii·Assll!tr1•veMss 4JJ INhaf IS [)ep1tll5.'llon 432 How to Deatw1th Qepress1on o&33 DepruS1on as aUie Style ol78 Becom1ng Independent tram Parent: ol7'9 Oeahng Wtlh Alcohohc Parents ol91 Su1c1dal Cns•s .C92 RecogmLt'1Q Su1c1dal Potential tn01hers 493 Hl!!lp1ng Some~e m a Su1c1dal Coal&  
Counsellne Is a complelely anonymous Hr¥•ce olferwd by Ihe CounNII"'j I Psychologlcel S.ryicas Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239·7337 between9·5 -·CLIP AND SAVE·­ 

~OlDHOUSE PIZZERIA ANDPUB BRUNO'S 
(Across from Big "C"Lumber) 

Monday-Thursday 
BRUNO will deliver 
FREE to campus 
A MEDIUM 16" Pizza with any 2 toppings 
FOR ONLY $8.95 
PLUS lliter Pepsi-FREE 277-4519 
277-4519 
.. 
Mon-Thurs Fri -Sat .Sunday 4-lOPM UntilllPM 3-BPM 
Warm and wetwith a c;o percem chant·c ofshowers and a high in tht· low 'iOs today. l.ow tonight around -!0. Mostly cloudy Tuotlay and cookr. High in the low to mid -!Os. -AP 
The Observer Monday, February 13, 1984 ·-page 3 
Busy agenda for Senate tonight 
campaign manager, Dave McAvoy, is 
also a student senator. Engler's poster says "this is not a joke." and he said he has slept only 
'Alternative' Plan for SU 
SPB petition restructuring
three hours in the last two days be­
cause of a busy campaign schedule. By BOB VONDERHEIDE Engler said his ticket is not on the By TIMOTHY GIANOTTI News Editor ballot because he and Dardis missed News Staff 
a manditory meeting for candidates. 
Two students will seek last­"We didn't even hear about it." The proposal for a major reor­minute permission from the Student Not hearing about the meeting, he ganization of the Student Union Senate tonight to get their names said, represents one of the reasons passed the Student Union Steering placed on tomorrow's ballot for stu­he and Dardis are running. Committee and will be put to a vote dent body president. by the Student Senate today. The 
Chapin Engler and his running "We cannot divorce ourselves meeting will be held in room 120 of mate, John Dardis, put up posters from being students," Engler said, Hayes-Healy at 6 p.m. and open to yesterday advertising their unoffi­"so our government would be a uni­the public. cial ticket as "The Alternative" that on of students rather than a sense­The Steering Committee finished can bring "radical change to our stu­less bureaucracy." revising the plan late Sunday after­dent government." Engler advocates a "new noon, "It just took some time to iron 
But because Engler and Dardis beginning" based on direct com­out the details," said Student l.lnion failed to submit a required ZOO­munication between students and Director Dave Druillard. signature petition by last Monday, student government officers. He the senate will have to "validate" suggests starting an article in The In order to pass, the plan will need their ticket tonight in order to make Obseroer that would present a a two-thirds majority -twelve of votes for Engler count. The senate, campus issue and leave blank space the eighteen members -support­however, will only consider Engler's for students to mail in comments. ing the legislation. 
1candidicy if he presents a "petition Engler and Dardis also promise to If the plan passes, it will next go for a disputed case," which is re­hold office hours each night from 11 before the hall councils where it will _quired by the Student Government p.m. to 1 a.m. undergo further inspection and 
,constitution. Also on Engler's platform: voting. A two-thirds majority, both Peggy Prevoznik, student body within the individual hall councils Observer Photo/Tbom Bradley vice-president, said last night that • Promise to collect student opinion and in the HPC as a whole, are re· 
quired to pass the plan in this final Mary Berry was one of four members of the Civil Rights
the senate can either vote to place before approaching the administra­
Commission fired by President Reagan last year. Her story and
Engler's name on the ballot or vote tion. stage. 
views are in the story below.
to make "The Alternative" an official • Plans to increase the intellectual write-in candidacy. Without senate atmosphere of campus through If the proposal passes these steps, approval, write-in votes are not seminars, films, exhibits and cultural it will be amended to the the Student counted. events. Government constitution and go in· 
The two official candidates for • Promise to develop a good rapport to effect. 
Rights Commissioner 
president, Rob Bertino and Chris between Student Government and Ifthe plan fails to pass, few options Tayback, are voting members of the the Center for Social Concerns. will be open for its success. One of senate. According to Engler, Direc­these is a student vote. The proposal 
blasts Reagan policies 
tor of Student Activities James Engler is a junior from Dillon; could, in theory, be passed by a two­McDonnell said he would ask Ber­Dardis is a junior who lives off­thirds majority popular vote, but 
By MICHAEL SKELLY men include Fr. Theodore Hes· 
tino and Tayback to consider not campus. Dardis is the student coor­Drouillard hopes the bill will be at­
News Staff burgh.
voting on the issue tonight. Bertino's dinator ofAmnesty International. tractive to the senate and will pass. 
Berry, an expert in civil rights law, 
Mary Frances Berry, a memba of adamantly defended affirmative ac­the U.S. Civil Rights Commission tion laws, saying that such legisla­spoke yesterday evening as part of tion is necessary to correct
War between Iran, Iraq heats up 
the Black Cultural Arts Festival. historical inequities and is specifi­Berry found herselfin the national cally designed "for qualified limelight last year after she and three people." She also said she would be
Associated Press the Iranian port ofBandar Khomeini Iranian shelling of Iraqi border other members of the commission "willing to abandon affirmative ac·
and the petrochemicals complex in towns. 
were fired by President Reagan. tion if some adequate substitute _BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iran shelled the city as well as "specific targets" An Iranian communique, Critics of the firings maintained that were found," but that she saw noner,:ven Iraqi cities and towns yester­in the cities ofAbadan, Guilan Gharb monitored in Nicosia, Cyprus, said they were an attack on the indepen­on the horizon.
C!ay, killing 14 people and injuring and Sar-e-Pol-e-Zahab, said a com­five people were killed and 100 dence ofthe commission, which was Berry also characterized affirma­
89 others, and Iraq retaliated by munique from the Iraqi military injured in a missile attack on Dezful. set up by Congress to act as a tive action as a "beacon of hope for
attacking four Iranian areas, Iraqi of­command. Earlier yesterday, Iran said it watchdog on civil rights enforce­the unqualified." whom she saidficials announced. "We will continue to strike at bombed the Iraqi cities of Basra, ment. Berry was later re-appointed would be more likely to work toBoth Iran an d Iraq had warned these installations until they are Mandali and Khanaqin after warning by Congress which generally sup­become qualified if assured that they
each other of the attacks, in some completely destroyed," said a com­residents to flee. There was no word ported the commission's indepen­would not be discriminated against
cases naming the specific city or munique aired by Baghdad Radio. about the cities listed by Iraq, or on dence. in the future.
town and warning residents to The Iranian barrage came one day casualty figures. 
Berry alleged that Reagan had
evacuate -an apparent new policy, after an Iraqi attack Saturday on the which an Iranian official said southern Iranian oil city of Dezful, Of the advance warning giving by tried to turn the independent com­Berry was also critical of current "should be accepted by world 50 miles east of the border. Iraq said Iran, Musavi said, "This is going to be 
mission into a "mouthpiece for the welfare regulations, particularly Aid administration." She is perhaps the for Families with Dependent
public opinion." the Dezful attack fulfilled a threat our method in the future. Our stance The Iraqi armed forces attacked made Feb. 2 to retaliate for the is quite decisive. 
most outspoken member of the Children. Citing the fact that Commission whose former chair-"welfare rules in 25 states require 


ND/SMC Students 
PARTY Spring Break in Daytona Beach 
INCLUDES 
*Round trip motor coach transportation to beautiful Daytona Beach, Florida. *FREE refreshments on the way down [the party starts here ) 
*8Fiorida days/7 endless nights at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels, located right on the strip. 
•
A full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day. 

•
A full list of pre-arranged discounts to save you money 1n Daytona Beach. • "Travel representatives to insure a smooth trip and a good time. *Optional side excursions to Disney World, Epcot, deep sea fishing, etc. 

•
All taxes and tips. 


YOU CANNOT FIND A BETTER DEAL OR A BETTER TIME OVER SPRING BRF.AK For further information and sign up THE BEST DEAL TO DAYTONA BEACH Call F::Jul at 283-4358 
$195 
abie-bodied males to leave their families before they can qualify for relief." She said such laws are anti­family and lead to a dispropor­tionatdy large number of female-headed single-parent households. 
Berry attacked Reagan's economic record, dismissing the ad­ministration's eco nomic policiesas so much "hogwash." Labeling the Republican Party as the party of "spend and borrow. spend and bor­row." Berry assailed the current budget deficit as being "larger than all the government's combined deficits in the nation's previous 200 years." 
Editor 
continuedfrom page 1 
staff members to work with. Their experience and professionalism guarantee the improvement of The Obsen•er. 
Vonderheide has been an Oh­senJer staff member since August, 19H 1. He has served as assistant news editor and news editor. His term as editor-in-chief begins on March 2"7. 
·" 
The Observer Monday, February 13, 1984 -page 4 
Off -campus candidate wants active Senate 
l!ditor's Note: Tbe following con­cludes a fil•e-part series describing tbe candidates in eacb of tbe Stu­dent Senate districts. Toclay's seg­m£•nt profiles candidates from IJistrict 5. u•bich consists oftbe off­campus students. 
By BARBARA HARDIN 
Neu•sStaU" 
"Stmh:nt government is not just r.:prest·ntation,"says District 5's un­opposed senatorial candidate Javier Oliva, "it is an aggrt·ssive, demand­ing part of the administration." Oliva says there is a need for many changes, both in student govern­tions," not just as candidates, but as campaigners and voters, as well. He says that elections for student body prt·sidcnt/vice-prcsident. senators, hall presidents, and commissioners should all be at the same time. This would create a "greater response" from people because it would he the main focus of the campus at that time. 
Oliva says he would also like to sec The Obserr•er serve as an "instigating paper" for senate news. Resides reporting senate business, he says he would "like to see a week­ly column that would inform people of upcoming meetings and invite students to attend" if only as in­




Outgoing 
US. Marines evacuate a wounded woman from war-torn West Beirut. All U.S. civilians who wish to leave the ci~v are being evacuated by helicopter to 
ment and campus wide; and he says tert:stcd observers. He says he wants 
he will bt· "the reform to "get people involved" more in the 
St."nator"needed to make these decisions that affect them. changes. Oliva says more parking stickers 


Elderly brought to Notre Dame 
arc given to students with cars than there arc spaces for. This often NO forces off-campus students who By BUD LUEPKE subsidize it in the program's first Dame," said Pollicata. arrive later in the day to park illegal­News Staff years." Elderhostel courses will be of­ly or a long distance from their des­Elderhostel was founded by Marty fered during the weeks of june IO­
Campaign 

tinations. ~eeing this as a ddinite This summer the Notre Dame Knowlton in I97S. It began with five l6,June 17-23, andjune 24-30. Each .. 
problem, Oliva says he would like to Alumni Association will participate New Hampshire institutions and week will include what Pollicata·" 
sec a more efficient sticker distribu­in the Elderhostel program, a net­200 senior citizens. Now Elderhos· called "a balance of diverse op-t 
tion. work of more than 600 educational tel boasts more than 600 participat­tions." The program is structured so 
Oliva, a junior transfer student According to Oliva, variable time institutions offering residential ing institutons throughout the 50 a social course, an arts or humanities fmm St. Mary's College in San An­passes should be given to students to academic programs for senior United States as well as Canada and course, and a course which tonio, Texas, served as a senator to drive on campus. Oliva says limit· citizens. II European countries. Over 80,000 demonstrates the character ofNotre there for two years. Oliva says he ing someone to a fifteen minute pass Jim Pollicita, director of alumni elderly will be involved this year. Dame would be taught in each rota­would like to change some aspects to go to the infirmary or to load or continuing education, heads the Elderhostel at Notre Dame will tion. For example, the three courses of the senatorial election procedure unload a full vehicle is "ridiculous." program for Notre Dame. Pollicata, consist of three separate weeks of for week one are; Reaganomics", here. Oliva also says there are many who is in his second year with the courses. Tuition is $190; this covers taught by economics professor 
First, he says there should be a unused parking places which could Alumni Association, sees Elderhos­room, board, instruction, and all so­Thomas Swartz; "The Art Museum", higher campaign budget allotted to be used more by students and espe­tel as service oriented. "We want to cial activities. All participants will taught by Dean Porter of the Snite each candidate, claiming the present cially visitors. offer it to alumni as well as people stay on the first floor of Lewis Hall Museum; and "Faith and Story", by ont· is insufficient for an cffect!vc To decrease book expenditures, who have never had a chance to which during the summer is called english professor Thomas Werge. campaign. lie also says there should Oliva would like to see a price quota come her e, people who know Notre Alumni Family Hall. The Notre Thursday, March 8 will be be fewer restrictions as to when and for books set in each class. He says it Dame only through footbalL" Dame program allows for 45 resi­declared Elderhostel day in Indiana where students may campaign. is unfair for students to be required Pollicita said the program hopes dents and up to five commuters per and Pollicata hopes to get founder 
Oliva says he would "like to get to purchase books in which they on­to cover its costs but said, "the week. "We want to give them the ex· Marty Knowlton to visit Notre Dame everyone to participate in the clcc-ly read a few sections. Alumni Association might have to perience of being a student at Notre for the occasion. 
'84 


CORKTOWNE LIQUORS  
wishes you a  
HAPPY VALENTINES Day  
...  with unbelievable prices ·'(Mon. and Tues. only)  
Amaretto di Saronnno $9.99  
750ML  Hiram Walker Schnapps $3.99  E&J Brandy $4.99  
Hiram Walker Amaretto $5.99  750ML Tanqueray Gin $8.33  750ML Fleischmann Vodka $6.99  
750ML Canadian Mist $4.77  750ML Seagram 7 $9.99  1.75 Jack Daniels $7.14  
750ML  1.75  750ML  
Riunite $1.99  Gallo Table Wines $2.99  Crown Royal $9.99  
750ML  l.SL  _  750ML  
$4.99  Andre Champagnes $1.91 750ML  M&R Asti Spumante $6.99 750ML  
750ML  
LaBatts $2.99  12-pack cans  

Miller Lite $7.24
6 pack 

24 cans


Pepsi, Diet Pepsi 

Strohs $6.67
or Mountain Dew $3.14 

CORKTOWNE LIQUORS INC. 1841 South Bend Ave. Sale ends Tues., M4-84 
"""· 





The Observer 


Notre Dame students will be going to the polls tomorrow to decide among candidates in the race for student body president, vice president and senate. The Observer asked both sets of candi­dates for president and vice president to answer eight questions which the News Department believes are the most pertinent in this year's elections. The following answers have been reprinted verbatim from reponses given to 
The Observer last night. The candidates had to abide by word limits on each question. 
Q: 
What in your opinion is the most pressing issue on campus? 

Q: 
In what way, if any, should student government officials be compensated for their work? 

Q: 
Do you think that a student should serve on the Board of Trustees? 

Q: 
What projects would you consider to be of top priority to accomplish? 

Q: 
What are the good points 


·and bad points of the proposed changes in the organization of the Student Union? 
Q: 
Do you think there is an alcohol problem on campus? Do you think the University needs to do anything about alcohol? Considering all the proposals for an alcohol policy, which do you think is best? 

Q: 
Many students do not seem to hold student government in high esteem, believing that student government is either unwilling or unable to effect­ively represent students before the administration. Do you 


Chris Tayback · SBP Kelly Fitzgerald · SBVP 
Undoubtedly, the most pressing issue on campus is the need to get students involved in the decision making process of the University. Most students aren't aware of the student representatives presently serving on the various University committees. Through these people, we believe students can have a voice in University decisions on such important mat­ters as curriculum, financial aid, etc. 
We are against monetary compensation because student government is, and should remain, a voluntary organization. We do, however, advocate academic credit as an alternative on a non-graded credited basis (as with Urban Plunge). It would allow the affected people more time to spend doing their job, which is in itself a learning experience. 
This issue should be brought straight to the board. We do see the need for a student on the board but because of problems of confidentiality and consistency, we would in­stead propose to appoint several recent graduates for a five year period, insuring confidentiality, consistency, and most importantly, an accurate student opinion. 
The projects we consider to be of top priority to ac­complish are currently the restructuring ofStudent Union and the continuation of the renovations of LaFortune. If the Uni­versity affects any major changes in the alcohol policy, Stu­dent Union and LaFortune must be able to pick up the social slack. Even if no such changes are affected, however, we still see the Student Union and LaFortune as being vital to the so­cial life and therefore contributing to the overall well-being of the stilaent body next year. 
We support the restructuring of the Student Union for the following reasons. By establishing a system whereby each Stu­dent Union commissioner heads a committee comprised of the respective commissioners from the halls, a working relationship which has long been absent, can be formed be­tween Student Union and the halls. Let's face it. Dorm unity is what creates participation. By working with the dorms instead ofin competition against them, Student Union can prove itself as an effective organization. To us, the only problem with it is trying to get the hall governments on a similar February­January calendar. If the halls are unable or unwilling to change, Student Union can remain on its present April-March calendar and the restructuring can otherwise stay intact. 
We support the HPC alcohol policy. We see three groups of drinkers on campus. First, the alcoholics. They will drink regardless of the rules. They must be treated, not punished. Second, the responsible drinkers; they do not pose a problem. Finally, there are those who regularly abuse alcohol. These are the students who get "trashed" every weekend and become destructive to themselves, others and property. We believe that it is this group that should be targeted by any alcohol policy reforms. The HPC proposal is a contract system where · the abuse drinker is first given a warning. A second offense within four weeks requires that a person sign a contract stating that a third offense within six weeks will result in a stricter punishment and/or treatment. Such a proposal tackles the problem without simply moving the problem off-campus. 
There is indeed a lack of respect for Student Government. This is probably due to its history of failing to take on the major issues. We think that there is most likely a desire to be concerned among the student body, but it has never really been stimulated. Our platform is based on the two-fold responsibility of student government: I. Handling the small improvements in student life (lights, parking lots, etc.) 2. Attacking the larger more important issues (financial aid, Uni­versity investments, etc.) The former has been handled by every student government, but the latter has almost been ignored until the end ofthis year. We feel by broadening stu­
Notre Dame Election Special Monday, February 13,1984 ·page 5 
Rob Bertino· SBP Cathy David · SBVP 
Alcohol. Much discussion ofnext year's activities and issues centers on the assumed passage of a strict alcohol policy. Much speculation has been attempted with regards to both its contents and effects, but realistically it cannot be addressed until it is determined. 
In our opinion, Student Government officials' time and dedication in doing their jobs justifies compensation. Finan­cial compensation is faulty because students might seek posi­tions for money. The time involved makes academic credit compensation a noble alternative. Reduction ofthe classwork load will allow students with financial need"to seek employ­ment. 
Yes, or a recent graduate. The PACE Report's recommenda­tion that the quality of student life be looked into seems to necessitate that someone with knowledge ofstudent life be on the board. Discussion with the administration and board, for at least attendance at board meetings would be a start. 
Of top priority is communication. The establishment of channels by requiring senators to have representatives and to distribute newsletters, as Rob has done this year would be essential. Student Government representatives at hall council meetings would be important, as well as the use of The Ob­seroer. The restructuring of Lafortune is another key issue. Making it a student center with various services can be ac­complished by moving some offices in Badin to Lafortune, and thus create the traffic necessary to make it a student cen­ter as opposed to a library. The installation oflaundry facilities as well as a pizzeria would help. Rob is presently on this com­mittee, and is seeking improvements already. 
The proposed changes in the organization of the Student Union are overdue and welcomed by many -including cur­rent Student Union members. The latest released proposal in­cludes structural changes ensuring a more efficient and realistic operation. The elimination of the Concert Commis­sion is one example. More importantly, utilization ofhall com­missioners will provide better communication and encourage Student Union accountability, eliminating the rationale that Student Union members be paid so they would be ac­countable. A change in the alcohol policy might diminish residence halls' ability to serve social needs: these changes will make Student Union a powerful "clearing house" for stu­dent life. Specific problems include the Director's overbear­ing fiscal responsibilities. Also, as a current commissioner, Cathy wants to see a very detailed proposal -especially regarding the role of the faculty moderator. 
Yes, to a certain extent. There are problems in certain is­olated situations, but the University appears to feel that the way to help abusers is to punish users and by doing that, drive abusers away rather than help them. The University's concern about alcotJOl can be understood, and we agree that some­thing should be done before it is too late. Too drastic measures, however, might severely harm the quality of stu­dent life. We feel that strict enforcement ofcurrent rules with the proposed additions of the HPC committee (on which Cathy served) is a worthwhile alternative. Party room rules, as well as a program in physical education and a contract with therapeutic intent, are all feasible. Providing alternative ac­tivities without alcohol is also reasonable. 
Yes, there is such a belief. We have already proven it can be effective with such projects as the 515,000 lights project, skating rink, and paving of the parking lot. Use of hall representatives, newsletters and accountable student senators will mean a change in attitude and hopefully, more student involvement. 

•"" .·' ·-+~ dentgovernment's range ofactivity and dealingwith the more
agree that such a belief is 
challenging issues, more students might see student govern­present, and what would you do ment as indeed being a worthwhile organization in which to Photos by Thorn Bradley participate.
to change it? 
The Observer Monday, February 13, 1984 -page 6 
Marine pullout said compromise decision 
Associated Press six days ago. in effect satist1c::d the:: conct·rns of both men. SANTA BARBARA, Cali[ -Pn:si­Reagan, meanwhile:, ended a five­dent Reagan's decision to remove day vacation ncar Santa Barbara on 
U.S. troops from Beirut hut to csc­Sunday and fle\v hack to the White alat~· shdling from Navy ships was a House after a week marked by compromise to accommodate the widespread confusion about his vastly ditfaing vkws ofSecretary of plan's details. There: wast confusion Star~-(;t·orgt· Shultz and Defense when Reagan made a decision to Secn·tary c..spar Wcinh~·;·ger, a withdraw the Marines, when their White lloust· oHkial said. withdraw:~! would occur. and the ad­
"Tht· policy is a halance hetween ministration's rationale: ti>r the shell­the two views. hut also a balance ing. that t'Vt·ryhody agrn·s to -that is, Asked about this seeming you continut· to support a li.S. confusion within the administration, diplomatic position in the Middk the official said there was no con­East. at the sanK time according cern inside the ·white House about mort· prott·ction to the Marines," the appearance ofdisarray. said the official, insisting on "Our policy hasn't changed, but anonymity. the implementation of it has to vary 
Wl'inherger, and reportedly the from time to time to meet changing 
Joint<:hid:-; ofStaff, hl'lieved that the circumstanct·s." he said. "And I think I,500 Marint·s in Beirut as part of a that is not a negative, but a positive." multinational force were extremely Several high-level administration vulnerahk and were serving no use­officials disagreed publicly with ful military purpose. deputy White House press secretary 

Shultz reportedly disagreed Larry Speakes' statement that Space Center in Florida. This is the first time a shuttle strongly with attt·mpts within the Reagan made the decision in prin­administration to withdraw the ciple Ft·h. I to withdraw The Marines since ht· believed their Marines. prt·st·nce was vital to supporting the Weinberger told the House shaky Lc:banese government ofAmin Foreign Affairs Committee: on 
SMC students protest ND car ban 
Gemayd. Thursday, "The decision was made 

Rt·agan's new polky, announced much later." By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI when she re4uested a pass so she student. The rule forbids students Saint Maryis Editor could drive her cousin back to Lewis driving on campus except in carry­
Hall late one Friday night. According ing heavy objects and this must he 
Several Saint Mary's students are to Catanzaro, the guard refused to done before 6 p.m. protesting a rule prohibiting them call an escort because the shuttle The incident involved a Saint from driving on Notre Dame's bus was still running. "Security is not Mary's student who got a pass under 
High-tech smuggling: 
five arrested in 'sting' 

campus. These students maintain promoting security," said Catanzaro. false pretences, according to Associated Press government agents, "hut that aspect many security guards grant passes as Senior Chris Kelly was also turned Roemer. "It was a mistake in judge­will he investigated." long as they do not see a Saint Mary's away last week. The guard told her ment" when the guard granted her 
NEW YORK Five peopk, The investigation was the t1rst parking sticker on the car. he had specific instructions from the pass. The student parked her car including three Chinese-horn l l.S. involving China, said Patrick Notre Dame is a "pedestrian Director of Security Glenn Terry on the grass by a dorm and an al­citizens, have been arrested for al­O'Brien, an assistant Customs com­campus" according to Dean of Stu­that no Saint Mary's cars were to he tercation took place between her kgnlly trying to ship e4uipment missioner in New York. The arrests dentsJames Roemer. allowed on campus. After polling and the hall rector when she refused that could he used in missile were part of "Operation Exodus," a Saint Mary's Dean of Students Sr. 100 Saint Mary's students Kelly to move her car. guidance to the Peopk's Republic of two-year effort by Customs to stop Karol Jackowski was not aware of found that, "Most students are not China, li.S. Customs officials an­high technology e4uipment from the rule preventing Saint Mary's stu­aware of the: rule." "We try not to let anybody on nounced yestt·rday. reaching nations where it might he dents from getting 15 minute passes. "No one was informed (of the campus," said Roemer. "Safety is one 
Saturday's arrests came after a used against the United States. "If Notre Dame wants a pedestrian rule)" said Catanzaro. "It's not jus­of the biggest concerns." Once sui­thrtT-month "sting" in which an un­In the underv>ver operation, the campus it's their right," said Jack­tified." The two have gained a dents are given a pass, they "park dt·rcovt·r agt·nt posing as a technol­"broker" arranged to sell 100 owski. Saint Mary's is "not in a posi­following of more students equally anywhere they please," he said. ogy broker met with the five, tiJLJr transverse wave tube amplifiers to tion to tell them how to enforce upset by the rule. "One thousand cars arc parking men and a woman, on several occa­the five for $12,500 each. The their policy," she added. "It's the question of unity. We inside already," said Glenn Ter1')1, sions, said Arthur StiffeL U.S. Cus­devices, which have military uses "The problem is how consistantly (Notre Dame and Saint Mary's) director ofsecurity. toms spt·dal agent in charge for New only, were to be shipped to a front it's (the rule) enforced. It's not too share so much, but when it comes 
Jcrst·y. t1rm in Hong Kong, then moved into clear what the policy is," statedJack­down to policy making nothing is The rule applies to students But before the ring was infiltrated, China, Stiffel said. owski. unified," said Catanzaro. whether they be from Notre Dame, authorities hdicve it successfully The agent got two ofthe suspects, At least twice in the last two According to Roemer, there has Saint Mary's, IlJSB, or St. joseph High shippnl to China about SI million who are Hong Kong residents, to weeks Saint Mary's students were always been a rule forbidding cars School said Roemer. Having cars on worth of "computer chip devict·s" come to the llnited States last week denied passes at the main circle gate. on campus, however, two years ago campus presc~nts a "terrible" safety, that com havt.· military ust·s, accord­by promising to get them other Mary Beth Catanzaro, a Saint the policy was reiterated following security, and parking problem, said 
ing to Stiffd. equipment. Mary's senior, was turned away an incident involving Saint Mary's Roemer. 
Ill' would not clahoratt· on pos­sihk uses of tht· e4uipmcnt that n·achnl China, ntmg security reasons. I Ie said he had no indica­

NO CMUAN BAND
tion any of the tin· were Chinese 

CAN MAKE YOU THIS OFFER. 
Ifyou're a musician who's serious The Army has bands performing It's a genuine, right~now, imme~
Social 

about performing, you should take a in Japan, Hawaii, Europe and all diate opportunity. 
continuedfrom page 1 

serious look at the Army. across America. Compare it to your civilian offers. 
span·," he maintainnl. "We want tht· 

Ar> .1y bands offer you an average And Army bands offer you the Then write: Army Opportunities, P.O. 
right combination of services for 

of 40 performances a month. In every~ chance to play with good musicians. Just Box 300, North Hollywood, CA 91603.
students, whilt· making the social spat'l' ht·tter." thing from concerts to parades. to qualify, you have to be able to sight~ 
Rob Bertino. studt·nt senator from Army bands also offer you a read music you've never seen before and ARMY BAND. 
District I and a member of the chance to travel. demonstrate several other musical skills. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. rt·novation t·ommittce, said that the 







ViewP-oint 
Monday, February 13, 1984 -page 1 
The Observer endorses Bertino/David ticket 
Rob Bertino and Cathy David have the experience, endorses student input through mailings and referenda, issues immediately. Both think larger issues such as Uni­drive and philosophy needed for an effective term as Tayback could not think ofa single occasion during the versity investments are worth their scrutiny. Both want student body president and vice president. past year when student input should have been sought to continue renovation ofLaFortune Student·Center. 
Bertino, a student senator from District 1, has a fine through a referendum. But the Bertino/David ticket has researched the record of accomplishments including installing lights The number ofstudent privileges threatened or taken details of these proposals more thoroughly -offering on the Stepan basketball courts, developing an outdoor away this year proves that student government should specific solutions when their opponents manage only ice rink, opening St. Michael's Laundry to women and not be isolated. It is time for student government to rhetoric, or in a few cases, misinformation. improving the quality ofparking lot D-6. "represent the student body to the administration Though both agree that student government leaders 
David, the president of Breen-Phillips Hall, adds a rather than mediate between the two," as Bertino's plat­should be held accountable through evaluations, Ber­strong punch to the Bertino ticket. Qualified herself to form states. tino supports semiannual evaluations with published serve as student body president, she wants to avoid a Tayback also seems to have a good vision of student results. Tayback looks at such evaluations as personal 
second-in-command complex and vows to work on a government's role. He is quick to point out that student statements, primarily for the benefit of those leaving par with Bertino. David is an example of the strong government should concern itself not only with so­office. female leadership this campus needs. called "parking-lot" issues, but also with more substan­Neither ticket fully understands the importance of 
The ticket 9fChris Tayback and Kelly Fitzgerald has a tial matters. Unfortunately, his platform is no better improving relationships between students and the number ofgood ideas. For instance, a governing body to than Bertino's at reaching this end. faculty, or between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. But approve Obseroer and WVFI expenditures (in lieu ofthe Bertino's platform is not without shortcomings. He Bertino and David plan to work on such solutions by University's budget system) is an interesting idea. While fails to emphasize the importance of legislative power first addressing the divisions and their causes, rather questions of feasability and practicality are many, the for the senate and is willing to settle for a recent than looking for panaceas. suggestion shows a willingness to involve students in graduate, rather than a student, on the Board of Trus­
decision-making processes around campus. tees. For these reasons, The Obseroer editorial board un­But ·this willingness is lacking in other areas of the Both tickets agree on several issues. Both believe that animously endorses·the ticket ofRob Bertino and Cathy Tayback/Fitzgerald platform. Though Bertino strongly student government should take a position on campus David. 

The great debate equalizer 
A presidential debate, if it comes, is a long way ahead. Meanwhile a bit of debate history may be ofinterest. 
It took over a century after the Lincoln­Douglas debates for the Senate before there 
Max Lerner The Lerner Column 
was a full-fledged presidential debate series in 1960. Why? 
In terms of technology it could have hap­pened earlier. The radio was there as a politi­cal instrument. franklin Roosevelt used it for his fin;side chats in the early 1930s, and justice~Hugo Black used it in 1.937 to confront the KulKlux Klan charge. 
Wh}j then didn't FOR debate Alf Landon in 1936 a,nd Wendell Willkie in 1940 and Tom Dewey in 1944? In the Willkie case it might have furnished the margin of victory for him. 
The same is true of Harry TnunJJ,n .against 
Dewey in 1948. 

The answer must be that they saw no reason to give their opponent an equalizer. In those days campaigns were a succession of cannon .blast~ from each camp in succession, mostly reported in the press, sometimes aired. The ·big guns were the long campaign speeches. But there were no direct confrontations ofthe 
candidates. 

The electronic technology arrived with its 
portent of power, and it could have changed 
the two Eisenhower-Stevenson campaigns in 
1952 and 1956. A dlai would have been more 
nimble and articulate in face-to-face combat. 
But Ike played the hero who was not to be 
harried into it. Only Richard Nixon had his TV 
miracle hour with his 1952 speech about 
Patricia's cloth coat. But TV was to play him dirt eight years later. 
It was in 1960 that everything came togeth­er for the first debates -the right TV technol­ogy and the right candidates. 
There was the brilliant young challenger who needed the recognition factor even though his name was Kennedy, and there was the vice president who was known and was Ike's heir and who had everything to lose and nothing to win by a debate but who was too cocky about his intellectual prowess in taking on the young upstart from Harvard. Nixon was betrayed from within by his vanity. 
By 1968 a chastened Nixon -again a can­ditate (the 1964 Goldwater disaster was debateless) -resisted Hubert Humphrey's pressures for a debate, and in 1972 McGovern's. But his successor, Gerald Ford, feeling he had to make it on his own, foolishly took on a belligerentjimmy Carter in 1976­and his ghastly adventure into higher Polish politics was the price he paid for his folly. 
In 1980 a gloomyJimmy Carter felt a debate might restore him as a once and future king, but a Reagan on a rising arc of confidence brought him down for good. 
Although Reagan knows the dangers he is facing he isn't in a good position therefore to deny an opponent his debate chance. Having had its benefit in getting to power, he can scarcely renounce it in holding on to power. Asked about a debate by Newsweek, he answers that it is too early to speculate on specifices "but I have always supported that i dea." 
It is a long haul to October and he may develop second thoughts. What we have learned from the three debates, in 1960, 1976 and 1980, is that all debates are equalizers be­tween the haves and have nots, the possessors and the pursuers. 
Every debate has ended in the incumbent president or party losing. Will this one? 
Not necessarily. Ronald Reagan's talents for the presentation ofhimselfon TV have by now become legendary. He may be the encumbent president who will break the pattern of his­tory. 
(c) 1984, Los Angeks Times Syndicate 

Campus comments: Should student government members receive compensation? 
Photos by Thorn Bradley 

I think people who participate in  They  shouldn't  be  compensated.  People involved in student govern­ I regard student government  as  a  
student government choose to do  They do it oftheir own accord, and it  ment should  not be compensated  service and it never really entered  
so, and therefore really shouldn't ex­ looks good on job applications.  for their work. They  are  donating  my mind that they should be com­ 
pect any compensation. But since  their services to the students.  pensated.  The  idea  of  receiving  

they spend so much time and effort,  credits is good -much better than  perience they receive iS rnmr\f"fl'"'-I  
they could receive some academic  receiving financial reimbursement.  tion enough.  
Kathleen Murphy  Daniel Flagstad  Terrence Mercier  Erin Ryan  Marino]. Martinez  
Communications  Aerospace Engineering  Finance  Business/Marketing  Electrical Engineering  
Classof'85  Classof'85  Classof'84  Classof'87  Classof'87  

EditorialBoard  Department Managers  
Editor-in-Cbief...............................David Dziedzic  
P. 0. BnxQ, NotreDame,IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen  
The Observer is the independeot newspaper published by the students of the llni·  Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn  Controller...............................................Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  NewsEditor.................................Bob Vonderheide  AdvertisingManager .........................jeanie Poole  
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­ News Editor................. ............ , ..... Mark Wot'!ICheh  Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto  
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials ree~esent the_opinon ofa  SaintMary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager........................... Kevin Williams  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the thside Column present  SportsEditor .................................Michael Sullivan  
the views oftheicauthers. Cohmmspa,ce is available-to all memben;ofthe community,  Viewpoint Editor........ , ..................... "Keith Picher  Founded November 3, 1966.  
and the free expression ofvaryingopinionsoncampus, through letters, is encouraged.  Features Editor............................... Satah Hamilton  
Photo Editor........................................ , ..Scott Bower  


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame-Detroit women's basketball game tomorrow has been designated as "Dorm Night" by the ath­letic department. The dorm which has the greatest turnout (by per­c~.:ntage of students in the dorm) will be awarded $100.00 worth of (;odfather's Pizza for a dorm pizza party. If you want to see more information, ask your R.A. who should have received a flyer in the mail. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team played 
Saturday against Marion College, losing 58-50. Betsy Ebert and Theresa McGinnis led the Belles with 10 points each. Astory on the game will appear tomorrow. -Tbe Obseroer 
Cheerleaderswishing to try out for the 1984-85 squad must attend a meeting on February 27 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The captain of next year's tean will be Bill Thallemer. Call him for more details. -Tbe Obseroer 
Gerry Faust will be speakingat an organiza­
tional meeting for potential freshmen managers on today at 6:45 
p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. Any freshman interested in the Student Managers Organization is invited to attend. Also, we will be showing the 1983 football highlight film. Those with questions should call 239-6482. -The Observer 
This is your last chance. If you haven't gone downhill skiing yet this year, you can still sign up for the NVA's ski trip to Royal Valley for tomorrow night. Call NVA at 239-6690 to register. -Tbe Obseroer 
Eddie White. assistant sports information director at Notre Dame, will be the featured guest tomorrow night on "Speaking ofSports" at 10 p.m. on WSND-AM64. Listeners can voice their questions or comments by calling at 239-6400. -Tbe Ob­seroer 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for February 28. Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to Dennis Stark the day before the meet or the interhall office, C2, ACC. For more information on the 10 event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -Tbe Obseroer 

Monday, February 13, 1984 -page 8 
College basketball roundup 
UCLA becoming a gracious host 
Associated Press 
Pauley Pavilion, once UCLA's vir­tually impregnable home of cham­pions, has suddenly become a house of horrors for the beleaguered Bruins. 
Pauley opened in 1965, and during its first decade, the Bruins, then the lords of college basketball, had a remarkable 149-2 record there, including eight unbeaten seasons and a 98-game home win­ning streak. Even the next four years were extremely good -69-5 -al­though each included at least one defeat at home. 
But over the past five seasons, 
including this one, UCLA's record at 
Pauley has been "only" 61-13. 
Saturday, UCLA lost to Oregon State 72-63, its third consecutive setback in Pauley's once-friendly confines, the first time that ever has happened. It was the Bruins' fourth home loss of the season; the only other time they suffered that embar­rassment was four years ago. 
"I can't understand why we play so inconsistently at times," said Coach Larry Farmer, whose Bruins have an overall three-game losing streak for the first time since the 1979-1980 season. 
"I don't think there is any doubt the players are bringing problems onto the floor .It is not an alibi, but I think the distractions are bothering the players." 
CharlieSitton scored 21 pointsfor Oregon State, which took the lead for good 54-52 on Steve Woodside's rebound basket with 7:59 remain­ing. 
Oregon State, meanwhile, was ecstatic. 
"That's only the second time we've been able to come in here and win," said Coach Ralph Miller. "For the state of Oregon, this has to be great because never before have both Oregon schools come in here and beat UCLA." 
Oregon defeated the Bruins 87-83 last Thursday night. UCLA's problems -the unranked Bruins are 15-5 overall but only 6-4 
in the Pac-10 Conference -over­shadowed a relatively uneventful Saturday in which most of The As­sociated Press Top Twenty teams 
won. 
Second-ranked DePaul beat Notre Dame 62-54, No. 3 Georgetown trounced Brigham Young 67-51, fifth-rated Houston defeted Texas 74-63, No.6 Kentucky whipped No. 16 Auburn 84-64, seventh-ranked Texas-EI Paso trimmed Hawaii 77­58, No. 9 Memphis State edged Florida State 73-69, and lOth-rated Oklahoma downed Kansas State 80­74. 
In other action, it was I 1 th­ranked Purdue 66, Northwestern 56; No. 12 Tulsa 86, Southern Il­linois 76; Duke 89, No. 13 Maryland 84; No. 14 Wake Forest 64, North Carolina-Wilmington 50; Virginia 50, No. 15 Louisville 45; and No. 17 Washington 56, Arizona 51. 
Kevin Holmes scored 14 points to help DePaul (18-l) make 70-year­old Coach Ray Meyer's last visit to Notre Dame, his alma mater, a win­ner. Several DePaul players told Meyer, "This one's for you," as the Blue Demons took the floor, and Meyer said that and several other emotional moments brought tears to his ~:yes. 
Bill Martin scored 23 points and grabbed 1 5 rebounds, while Georgetown held BYU's Devin Dur­rant, the nation's leading scorer with a 30.1 average, to a season-low 13. 
Rickie Winslow and Michael Young each sank four free throws and Alvin Franklin had two free throws and a basket in the closing minutes as Houston held off Texas for their 35th consecutive South­west Conference triumph. 
Basketball Box Score' 
Saturday's Results Saturday's Results DePaul 62, Notre Dame 54 Notre Dame 85, VIllanova 79 DePaul(62) VIllanova (79) p
M FG·A FT·A R F M FG-A FT-A R Corbin 40 4-12 3-5 6 1 11 Messenger 28 1-4 3-4 2 Holmes 37 6-9 2-4 8 5 14 Razler 17 0-0 1-2 4 Embry 21 3-5 0-0 7 2 6 Pennefather 39 17-24 1-2 9 Patterson 37 3-7 1-3 2 5 7 1Burton 29 3-4 0-2 1 McMillan 38 3-9 4-10 6 4 10 Bernhardt 39 9-26 6-8 3 McCoy 3 0-0 4-4 0 0 4 Tighe 11 2-4 0-0 3 Jackson 2 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Delorey 11 1-1 0-0 2 West 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Williams 24 1-3 0-1 8 Comegys 21 3-6 4-6 4 3 10 Coleman 1 0-0 0-0 0 
200 22-4!1 18--32 33 20 62 Hargadon 1 0-0 0-0 0 !I 
~ 

F p 4 5 0 1 5 35 3 6 4 24 2 4 2 2 4 2 0 0 2 0 
FG Pet. .449. FT Pet. -.563. Team 200 34-81 11-11 32 28 79 rebounds -36. Turnovers -10. Assists-8 FG Pet. .515. FT Pet. -.579. Team (Patterson 4). Technicals-none. rebounds-35. Turnovers-14. Assists-19 
NotreDame(54) (Bernhardt 8). Teehnicals-none. 
M FG·A FT-A R F p Notre D•rne (IS) Dolan 38 3-5 2-3 7 3 8 M FG-A FT·A R F p Barlow 37 3-7 2-2 6 4 8 Keys 22 5-10 2-2 8 3 12 Royal 22 2-3 0-0 3 3 4 Bates 37 5-9 10-11 2 3 20 Sluby 39 8-18 7-8 1 5 23 Sehueth 35 5-8 5-8 9 0 15 Buchanan 3 1-1 0-0 0 3 2 Dougherty 25 6-12 0-1 1 1 12 Hicks 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Basford 27 0-4 3-5 1 4 3 Howard 14 1-3 0-4 0 3 2 Ebben 18 4-7 4-4 4 1 12 Bowen 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Thompson 25 5-7 1-2 3 5 11 Price· 12 0-1 0-0 0 2 0 Kaiser 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Rucker 22 3-5 1-2 7 4 7 :willis 8 0-0 0-2 3 l 0 
11200 21-43 12-19 24 27 54 200 30-57 25-35 31 85 

FG Pet. .488. FT Pet. -.632. Team 
rebounds -27. Turnovers -15. Assists -9 FG Pet. -.526. FT Pet. -.714. ~eam 
(Howard 3). Technicals-none. rebounds -37. Turnovers -14. Assist~ -20 
Halftime -DePaul 29, Notre Dame 27. Offi-(Basford 9) Technicals-none. cials-Jim Bain (Big Ten), Ralph Rosser (Big Halftime-Notre Dame 40, Villanova 3~•Of-Ten), Ed Hightower (Big Ten). A-11,345 (c). ficials-Patty Broderick. Dennis Cury. A-27. 
Tbe Observer Lafonun~ office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m•• Munday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall bast"mcnt Is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day K"rvicc i.s 3 p.m. All classified ads must bt' prepaid. either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per five characters,



Classifieds per day. 

NOTICES I· 
E T XPERT TYPIST 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­HERS! Surra up bul our prtc:ea ...,,_ From 1..-1101.00-apancl7 lur>-llllad d.ya In _,Y ,_Calllor yourMII cr organla • ....n group and t...,.l FREE I GrNI lor cluba, tooI Call LUV TOURS (100) 38&-200e, aak lor An­
.-e. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009 
LOST: Sel of l<eys on lhree nngs and a toenatl clipper were losl Friday. Jan. 21. 1984 at Corby Bar Please call 234-7256. Very much needed 
FOUND. BLUE FOLDUP CHAIR IN S. QUAD CALL 5451 MUST IDENTIFY 
Found: A gold bracelet tnbetween Flanner and PW. on Salurday Nighl. To Clatm please call Ellen al4558. 
lostll 18-20" burgundy beaded necklace of greal senlimental value losl some­where between O'Shag and South D1n1ng Hall on luesday al noon. if lound please call Belh a1283-6747 ~ 283-6745 
Losl-Dtamond and sapphire ring. Belonged to Grandma. Grea1 senlimental value. If loung please call 284-4437. Reward 
MISSING ONE GOLD SIGNET RING (LETTER 'T) ONE GOLD 1930 CLASS RING WITH DARK BlUE SAPPHIRE, INSIDE INSCRIP· TION: "H.E. MANSKE PH.B. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT MIKE AT 283-1573. 458 CAVANAUGH HALL REWARD OFFERED NO QUES­
TIONS ASKED 

LOST-MEN"S DRESS LEATHER GLOVES. LEFT EITHER IN SMC LIBRARY OR IN LEMAN'S LOBBY ON FEB. 7. IF YOU KNOW OF THEIR WHEREABOUTS. CALL 283-1596. THANKS. 
LOST: BLACK CONCORD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER STRAP, GOLD HANDS AND BLACK FACE. LOST FEB. 1 BETWEEN EMIL REVIEW AND PW. CALL MAGGIE 2!164. 
LOST IN ALUMNI KODAK CAMERA 
CALL SMC4302 
LOST:TAN DOWN WINTER COAT WITH HOOD AT SENIOR BAR.I NEED ITII IF FOUND,PLEASE CALL ED 277-6295 REWARD. 
FOUND IN THE STUDENT LOT BY 
STADIUM. EYEGLASSES IN BLUE 
CASE CALL 1796 
LOST:A SINGLE ROOM KEY,BETWEEN STEPAN CENTER AND ZAHM IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DAVE.NO 1178 
FOR RENT 
AVAILABLE NOW-Efficiency apartment 
near Notre Dame on busline. 255-8505. 
WANTED 
Summer Sales Posrt1on. Aver age ear­mngs $2700. Sell yellow page advertising for Notre Dame and Western Michigan Untversrty Campus Telephone Direc­tories. Spend 5 weeks in Notre Dame and 5 weeks in Kalamazoo. Car necessary_ No sum.-school students. Lodging and one meal per day provided while in Kalamazoo. S T ign-uplor campus intervtew by calling 1·800-334-4436 by Feb. 17. Ask lor Balbara NieU<iri<. 
RIDE NEEDED TO IU: FROM 1/17 TO 1/19. CALL PAT AT 3625 
FOR SALE 
Want to know what's really going on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOUC REPORTER, lhe only newspaper of lhe U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a free sample copy, call Paul a1277·485f. 
SPRINGSTEEN ON VIDEO BOTH THE RIVER AND BORN TO RUN TOURS CALL233-1476 
.................. ········ 
FOR SALE: PIONEER TURNTABLE 
AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST OF­
FE A CALL 8046 
F~ Sale -New LEATHER JACKET Never used Racing style Handmade Can be used in rain or snow Priced to sell fasl call Rafael x3248 
TICKETS 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX CHRIS 8229 
Wanted 4 Marquette G.A."s-Call Tom at 3039 
Need 2 stu. tix for lhe MarquHtte game. Call1388 
HAVE CASH -NEED MARQUETIE TICKETS CALL MATT x1226 
............•................... NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Keith 1180 
HELP!!!!! I need 3 G.A.s lor the Marquette Game. Call3211 PLEASE! 
MAA~UETTE TlX? I need two student tickets to 1he Marquette game. Please call 13811 
HELP ME!! I need MU TIX Will pay $$$lor them Call 8440 
NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX STUDENT OR GA CALL JOHN 6718 
NEED 2 MARQUETTE G.A. ·s CALL RICH 1418 
Would LOVE One or two TIX 1o see IRISH BEAT MARQUETTE. Call DIGGER 8015 rt you can help!!! 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
GTWYBAMFS 
BUY OBSERVER VALENTINES 
MISSING ONE GOLD SIGNET RING (LETTER T) ONE GOLD 1930 NOTRE DAME CLASS RING WITH DARK BLUE SAPPHIRE. INSIDE INSCRIPTION: 
H.E. MANSKE PH.B." IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT MIKE AT 283-1573. 456 CAVANAUGH HALL REWARD OF­FERED NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
SENIOR CLASS T-SHIRTS ON SALE NOWI GET THEM AT THE SENIOR CLASS OFACE (1.5 LAFORTUNE) ON MONDAY, FEB. 13 THRU TO THURS. FEB. 18 FROM 1:00 TO 4:00. ALSO AVAILABLE FROOII YOUR DORM REPS. REIIEIIBER YOUR SENIOR YEAR! 

ATTENTIONIIAND HERE WE GO AGAIN-DO YOU HAVE A PARTY, SYR DR FORMAL THAT YOU NEED THE MUSIC SUPPLIED FOR??? THEN CALL WSND-FOR ONE LOW PRICE YOU TOO CAN HAVE A PROFES­SIONAL OJ, ENGINEER, AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEIII CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 239-7425 OR 283-1153. THE DATES ARE ALUNG UP QUICK SO CALL TDDAYIIIIII WSND PARTY REMOTES-THE BEST EQUIPMENT, THE BEST PRODUC­TION AT THE BEST PRICEIII 
Mr. Virile is a man-god I 
Andy Looney asks: Domer ego...WHYYYYY??I 
OMAHA. NE (CREIGTON U.) ANYONE?? Ride or riders needed to Omaha ffor lhe weekend of Feb. 24 -26. Will share usual. Call Jeanne at 3484. 
Wanted: one Valentine. Preferably from a NROTC. Contact Mary 320 Lewis 
International SIUdenls: I.S.O. lubing, sledding and winter games Place:Bendix Woods Pari< Date:Sat 2/18 Time:6.30pm If you want to come, sign up al the I.S.O. lounge. Mon thru Thurs 8pm-1 Opm 
Dave McGonigle Congrats to NOs most intellectual WARD 
VOTE DAN MCNAMARA STUDENT SENATOR DISTRICT3 
Yee Ledin, ~:;~---i;;;~ another birthday In 217 Cn11naugh. This lime II wu IIOflll other than the lovable Mlck Verdi. He'e 21 now, 110 he'e legol~ eo c.,. on ~ and wleh him • heppy blrt~ (he ,_ Iota of ·~ 
_,...,.~ 
OBSERVER VALENTINESIOBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES I 
Mary' a 01-Hard G1111r11ntee: 
A Mary' a 01-Hard Ia guaranteed lorlour Maaona or 80 vtctorlaa, whlche­
c.,.•llrat. 

LOST: One of the lllat edHiona of The Works of Oliver Goldsmith from the Not.-. o ..... Memorllll Llbnlry. 11 you have -n thla prtc:eleaa 11th century book, plea• contact Kathy at x2703. HurryI Ill don't get Hb.ck aoon,l won't gredulllfll And that won't batheleaat of mytroublea ... 
WHEN THE GOING GETS TOUGH, THE TOUGH GET GOING, COLEMAN,BLANZ, HONNIG­FORD,CURRAN 
Breathe, bruathe In the sir Don"t be afrsld to care 
Leave, butdon•t leave me 

Look around, choose your own ground. 
n1andmw: don't take it PERSONALly. 
TO THE BLONDE-HAIRED. BLUE­EYED PROBABIL TY GODDESS WHO LIVES IN 312 PW. HAPPY BELATED 20TH B-DAY FROM THE GANG IN 3A AND OK. HOPE YOU HAD A BLAST SUNDAY. FROM: AP,RN.MM.LF.ANO OK. 
To SMC 5451 You may have the BIG BlUE one bul you·ll newr get the BIG REDonel 
Monday, February 13, 1984 -page 9 
The Observer 
·' 
.. 

Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt Menu another cruahlng btow'? Revive yourself with a well-All Pizza Include Our rounded meal from Special Blend of Slluce Domlnds Pizza We'U help end 100M~ Reel CheeM smooth the wrtnkles out of your day. 
OurSuperb 
Q

C'-Pizza Domlnds Pizza makes this 12. cheese $4.79 ·­guarantee: If your pizza 1e-cheese $6.89 
doeli not arm. within 30 ~ea. Ifa free...no 
Domlno'a Deluxe pon neoeaal')'f 5 Items for the price of 4 I Pepperon~ Muahrooma, Onlona, Green Peppers
Fast ... Free ..tSe•oeege 
12" DeiUlCI8 $ 8.35
Delive,y­
1e-Deluxe $12.05 
AddllloMI ......
Call us. ~
Muehrooma, 
()llw., Gleen Pepper~,277·2151 Oniona, Ground Beef, 1835 South Bend Ave. Sauaage, Extra Cheeee. Plaza 23 Center HaR\ Extra Thick Cruet, 
Jalapenoa, AnchcMea Hours: 12" pizza $ .89 per Item 4:30pm-\ am Sun-Thurs. 1e: pizza $1.29 per Item 4:30pm-2a.m Frl & Sat 
Cob"available Ask about our party discounts. Pl1ces do not Include 
applicable aalea tax. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery araa.
·--...-·-""' 

r··------·-·-------------·····, 
Only 17.25 for a 

1e• 1-ltem pizza with two C()kes8.
Monday 

Good MondaysOnly. One coupon per pizza 
Special 

Fat, FIHPellvery"' 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277-2151 
.,. r
•• ' I 
L-•---~~---·••••••••••••••••••J 
r.J~· ·lHT. 
'•lf"'' 

Joe Kleine MVP 
Arkansas topples No.1 Tar Heels 
Associated Press 
PINE BLUFF, Ark. -Charles Balentine swished a five-foot baseline jumper with four seconds remaining as unranked Arkansas up­set No. 1 North Carolina65-64 yes­terday. 
The loss was the first for the Tar 
Heels, the last unbeaten Division I 
basketball team, after 21 victories, 
their longest winning streak since 
season of 1957. 
Arkansas, 19-4, led by four points 
at the halfand by as much as eight in 
the second half. 
North Carolina had gone ahead 64-63, its only lead of the second half, on a 10-foot jump shot by Mic­hae!Jordan with 1:13 remaining. 
Winter olympics 
Arkansas called time with 29 seconds left and Alvin Robertson drove for the basket as the clock wound down. When he went up to shoot, he was closely guarded and dumped the ball to Balentine for the game winner over Tar Heel forward Sam Perkins. 
A long jump shot by Carolina's Steve Hale bounced offthe rim at the buzzer. 
Slightly more than two minutes earlier, Balentine made both ends of a one-and-one free throw situation to give Arkansas 63-60 lead. Jordan responded with a 17-footer that cut the margin to one. 
Center Joe Kleine led Arkansas with 20 points, while Darryl Bedford added 12, Leroy Sutton I 1 and Balentine 10. 

Jordan topped all scorers with 2 I points for North Carolina, followed by Perkins with 17 and Hale with 15. 
North Carolina led by as much as five early and Arkansas took the lead for the first time 10-9 on Kleine's two free throws with 15:49 left in the first half. 
A follow shot by Robertson and a tip-in by Kleine put Arkansas on top 19-1 5 before Jordan got loose inside. Arkansas led 24-19 when Kleine made two free throws with 
7:54 left, but North Carolina ran off eight straight points -two baskets by Perkins wrapped around two bas­kets by Hale. The Razorbacks then outscored the Tar Heels 12-2 over the next three minutes. Bedford came off the bench and drove the baseline for a basket. 

Carruthers win silver in ice skating 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia Kitty and Peter Carruthers ended the U.S. medals drought at the Win­ter Olympics with a silver in pairs figure skating last night, while Elena Valova and Oleg Vasiliev maintained the Soviet Union's grip on the gold. 
Third was the Soviet pair ofLarissa Selezneva and Oleg Makarov. 
The United States has not won a pairs silver medal since 1952. The last U.S. medal in the event was in 1964, when Vivian and Ronald Joseph won a bronze. 
Earlier yesterday, Britain's Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean earned perfect scores in a second ice dancing event and closed in on the gold medal they are heavily favored to win. 
Americans Judy Blumberg and Michael Seibert remained third and ..~ ...could.. give the United States its second figure skating medal tomor­
row night when dance couples skate in the final event. The Carrutherses threw in every lift and throw in their repertoire ­aside from a specialquad throw -in 
the Zetra arena crowd on their side, and -when a couple of relatively low scores were announced after their program -hoots and whistles filled the air. 
Valova and Vasiliev, the Soviet world champions, leaned over and pecked both Carruthers' on the cheek before the medals ceremony. 
They opened strongly, with side­by-side triple jumps. Skating to aver­sion of the Beatles' "Get Back," and Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata," the couple carried off difficult lifts and throws, and -despite an ap­parent slip by Valova -the program earned thm marks ranging from 5.7 to 5.9 ofa possible 6.0 from the nine judges. 
But the Carrutherses' perfor­mance was the crowd pleaser. They opened with a split triple twist lift and went right to a triple-revolution throw that Kitt, 20, landed solidly 
Women 
continuedfrom page 12 
however, and Notre Dame hit 13-of­

winning the first pairs silver fora U.S" ... 1~ foul_ s~¥UL_in the Ji..n.al.J!!!;ec;, couple since Karol and Michael Ken-minutes to pull away from the nedy did it in 1952. Wildcats. 
Whereas Valova bobbled slightly "We knew we were going to have on a side-by-side solo jump, the Car-to take what they gave us," said DiS­rutherses skated cleanly. They had tanislao. "We knew Pennefather 
:  CAMPUS STEREO  :  
•• Budget Prices on aU types of : STEREO EQUIPMENT • IntroductorySpeciai­• MAXELL VDXL II90's $2.75  ••••••  
:  CaU Stan 283-1802  :  



e Story and the Word: Early Jewish Allego Naomi Janowitz 
ln•tructor, Judaica 

..;?,. T 2.?0 '"' r.tf'\1'"2:;1: 
7:30p.m. Center for Social Concern• 

.·......... ·----.. ·-·---·--.. -..--­
despite a taped right ankle. 
She shot over Peter's head like a spray ofwater in their "hydrant" lift and in their lateral twist lift -some­thing they invented -she twirled around in the air in a horizontal posi­tion instead ofvertically. The perfor· mance drew marks from 5.5 to 5.9. 

The other U.S. pairs were Jill Watson and Burt Lancon of Los An­geles, sixth, and Lee Ann Miller and Billy Fauver ofWilmington, tenth. 
Valova and Vasiliev carried on the tradition ofSoviet couples who have dominted this event since 1964. The Soviet reign began with Ludmila Belousova and Oleg Protopopov, who repeated in 1968. 
Starting in 1972, the name Irina Rodnina became synonymous with pairs competition. She had won the gold medal at the past three Games, in 1972 with Alexei Ulanov and in 1976 and 1980 
would get her points, but Mary Beth (Schueth) was smart enough to take the ball to her and get some fouls. (Pennefather fouled out with 1:26 left.) 

"We were able to shoot well from _dl.~(oulline and that's the game." 
The victory does not necessarily mean that the Irish are back to last season's form, but it definitely is a good indication. Perhaps a better in­dication will come on Tuesday, though, when they will play host to conference rival Detroit. If they are back to form, Detroit could be in for a very tough time. 
DePaul 
continued/rom page 12 
the Irish started a 9-1 spurt that cut DePaul's lead to 53-50 followingJoe Howard's pickpocket and score off ofDePaul guard Raymond McCoy. 
But McCoy came back to net four straight free throws in the closing minutes to seal Notre Dame's fate. 
Two of the three referees in the game arrived late due to airline problems, forcing official Ed Hightower to begin the game him­self. Ironically, the fans gave Big Ten refs Jim Bain and Ralph Rosser an ovation when they finally arrived at the nationally-televised contest. 
But by the game's closing minutes, the Notre Dame student body became a veritable lynch mob as several fans threw debris onto the court, which nearly resulted in a technical foul on the crowd. 
"Hold it!," shouted Phelps, after he grabbed the public address microphone. "Don't lower your level. Show some class. We'll still win this game." 
But Phelps could only voice his similar frustration with the referees after the game. 
"I can't understand how guys who get $300 a game could show up late," said Phelps. 
"They could have stayed home." 

Monday, February 13, 1984 -page 10
The Observer 


Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 
expected, and the goal really picked 
them up." 
Steve Ely answered right back for 
Notre Dame, scoring on a quick shot 
from a face-off just four minutes later 
to put the Irish back on top 2-1. 
The pesky Penn State offense con­tinued to work, however. When the puck took a bad bounce near the Notre Dame blueline and eluded defenseman Rob Ricci, an alert Powers pickt·d it up and let go a drive that caught the far corner to AI Haverkamp's stick side to knot the score at two. 
Notre Dame regained the lead again at 17:0H when Parsons picked the top corner after taking a pass from co-captain Brent Chapman. 
Trailing :\-2 going into the final 20-minutes. tht· Nittany Lions wasted little time making a come­hack as Nil·k Pappas and Lynn Sipe conm:cted twice within three minutes, and suddenly the Irish were behind for the first time in the game. 
"We got a little too lackadaisical and didn't play with enough inten­sity." said Jeff Badalich. "By the time we picked up, their goalie started coming up big, and it was too late." 
Thebeau's slapshot from the right 
wing boards at 13:44 enabled the 
Irish to tie the score. 
Notre Dame missed several gold­en opportunities to grab the win, both in the late-going of regulation and in the overtime period. 
Saturday night, Brad Rush's rebound goal at 9:08 of the first period provided Penn State with what was to be its only lead and tally of the night. 
Marc Guay turned in a solid pefor­mance in the Irish nets, kicking aside 20 Lion shots to earn the victory. 
At the 2: I 0 mark of the second period, Parent poked a pass into a crowd in front of the Penn State net where Becker outmusckd two defenders to put a backhand past a surprised Davis as both he and the 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES 
1<11 matches must be played and reported to the NVA off1ce by Frtday. February 17. The NVA en­lcourages all matches to be played and reported at the 
arhest convemence 
udtke·Wagner (6871) v. Lane· Hickey (1023) 
Htggtns·Suner (1873) v. Gro)ean·Aadtmaker (1248) 
Bathon·Htllerman (8313) v Boyle-Clement (3210) 
Aehder·Aogers (8022) v. James-Connelly (1530) 
Smith· Villareal ( 1628) v Coyle-Bianton (6380) Dugan-Hudson (1620) v. Bogg1o-Ryan (8459) [Gels·Abd Allah (1480) v. K1mmei-Crouch (1694) 
Gardner-Bono (8646) v Magn-Z1mmer (1059) 
Golub·Pravezek (8456) v. Barenton-Chludz1nski 
3137) ~esthoven·Gral (3610) v. Casey·Ntchols (8833) Otce·Kress (8538) v Strnann·Hardek (1371) 
Eating Disorders 
• Anorexia Nervosa 


puck ended up in the goal. The goal ignited the Notre Dame attack and it never looked back. 
"The goal gave us the spark we needed." said Becker. "Before it no­thing seemed to be going right." 
After a 20-minute delay to repair the boards, Tim Reilly tipped home Ricci's shot from the point to give the Irish a 2-1 lead at 7:31. 
Six minutes later, Parsons inter­cepted a Penn State clearing pass and fired a shot past Davis from the slot and the Irish began to pull away. 
The hard hitting continued throughout the period, and with the officials whistling everything that appeared to be too violent, the second period alone lasted over an hour. 
"The officiating was pretty bad," said Reilly. "A lot of hits were really questionable for penalties." 
Two powerplay goals in the first three minutes of the final period put the Irish up S-1. 
Thebeau picked up his first goal of thl· night at 1:47. Parsons then got his second goal ofthe game a minute later on another drive from the slot. 
Thebeau then rounded out the 
Edward "Moose" Krause was one of many well-day in the ACC. See jeffBlumb 's feature on ti:Je great
Notre Dame scoring as he raced the 
wishers who honored retiring DePaul bead coach Ray coach and Will Hare's game story on page 12. \
length ofthe ice and beat Davis with 
Meyer in his last game against Notre Dame last Satur­

a blast from the boards while the Irish were skating shorthanded. The goal was the seventh shorthanded goal for Notre Dame this season. 
"We played slow at first," said 
Meyer

Mike Metzler. "But three goals right away in the second period put us in continuedfrom page 12 comrol. It just took everything out of them." it for themselves but more impor­
A total of40 penalties were called tantly for him. in Saturday's game alone. Twenty­"This one's for you 'Coach.' We two were against the Irish. know you want to win it," said junior 
Steve Whitmore suffered a severe Kenny Patterson as the Blue thigh contusion in Friday's contest Demons left the locker room before and missed Saturday's game. Tony the game. Bonadio caught a slapshot in the "I knew how bad 'Coach' wanted . right ankle on Saturday, but later this-game. We all knew," said co­returned to the game. MVP Kevin Holmes. 
The Notre Dame powerplay was It is conceivable that everyone in three for 13 on the weekend, while the ACC and then some knew how Penn State was one for 23. bad Meyer wanted to win Saturday's 
The Irish travel to Huntsville, game. He will win no more games at Alabama next weekend for the last the ACC or against his alma mater. series on the Central States Col­Next year his son Joey will try to legiate Hockey League slate. keep alive the Demons' four-game 
i:""J"JO"'J"J"J.:Y"J"J"J"J.:Y".,JCCOCr....c>co""J"J"JC"'J"../.)""J"....ocr~....-......~.....oc, 
r§  Student Union Academic Commission presents  ll§ 
8  8  
~  Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton  ~  
§§  speaking on  §§ 
§§  Where Do Women Fit in the Church?  §§ 
§§  Monday, February 13 Library Auditorium 8p.m.  §§ 

l..-....-....-..cco""~..;:)O"".r../.)""JOOO""..cco"".;-....-....-....-~oc ccc:cccc.-.r.r.r~ 
A 10-week structure group will meet two ennlngs weekly beginning Feb. 28 on the Notre Dame campus. 
SYMPTOMS Note: Not all victims display all symptoms 
•
Abnormal weight loss 

•
Refusal to eat, except for tiny portions 

•
Binge eating •vomiting 

•
Abuse of laxatives, diuretics, emetics, or diet pills 

•Denial 
of hunger "Excessive exercise Distorted body image: see themsleves as 

fat though actually thin 

•
Depression 

•Preoccupation 
with food 

•
Absent of irregula~ menstruation in women 


Ifyou have any of these s·ymptoms or know someone who does, contact: Dr. Daniel Rybicki ND-239-7336 Dr. Sue Steibe or Ms. Nancy Schoeneman at SMC-284-4565 for an initial pre-screening 
meeH~g. 
peopiP starve, vomit or 
pur~e because they think they are fat Enrollment is limited. Registration
closes Wednesday, Feb. 22. 
winning streak against the Irish. 
You can see the transition already. Ray, calmly sitting on the bench for much of the game, only getting up occasionally to say something to the referee or to offer encouragement to a player. Joey, up off the bench, walking the side ofthe court, calling out offenses and defenses. 
The change next year will not be an abrupt one. It will not be one guard at Buckingham Palace walking up and replacing another without so much as blinking. No, this transition has already begun and will continue to be as emotional as it was on Satur­day. 

Ray Meyer may have engf!eered a lot of victories against his alma mater but that certainly hasn't hurt his image here, simply because people realize all the good things he has done for the University. 
"He has represented Notre Dame very well as an alumnus," says Phelps, "but more so as a person." 
Yes, more so as a person. Ray Meyer may be a basketball coach, and a good one at that -Saturday's win was his 715th. But, while he may be a good basketball coach. he is an even better person, and, considering all that he has done in college bas­ketball, that is saying a lot. 
Homemade lasagna with free glass ofwine 
Free Delivery to NO & SMC 1636 N.lronwood 
277-6155 


LACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVA 
Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee, the reknown acting team of Broadway and Hollywood will be speaking and reading selected works on February 16, 7:00p.m. at the l.ibrary Auditorium 
An illness that makes 

~------------­

~t(Jt~C3L~-------------------------------------M-o_n_d_ay_,_F_eb_r_u_ruy
__l_3_,_19_8_4___p_a_ge---ll 
Bloom County 
811r<rf.Nf?f!< .' 
IU HAV£ A 
CIJP Of (J)ff£6 -' 


Mellish 

WHERE ARE GOT~ C.1U fA~UEfi YDII tiDING, T4DAl, DDN.1LO, SEfiiiS MAI>M~N ~ THE f{IISS/AN5 INANT 
ME TD AEPLII£E Ylllfl AS TilE NEI'J HEAD

} 
~ONCUO. \ 

C0ff6£ LHS YW CALM YOURSfJf /?OWN WHit..£ IT PICK5 YOIJ UP i ANP Il'tl 00€ Of 1H£ N£W com:£ GeNW1TION .'... ON6 OF 10PA'f'5 MOV£1?5 ANCl 5/IAK€1?5 / Y£55/R ... T'V£ JO/N£Cl TH€ COFf£~£ ACHIGV6R6 .tt 

..-----------------­
No, llfAIIl-1'~ STRA~~>HT,IINAI/I. 
AJf YO II GIIIN6 TilE PMI'IIIElDS O~T OF TOII/N Mf 4/10 /M G4/N6 fOR $0NETHifi; ! TO SlTTlE fll/5
I CHwiiSH TN/Nr; 

Guindon Richard Guindon 

In Just a moment the motel maid Is going to dlacover that Harvey shined his shoes with the bedapread. 

YDU AT{ TOD NANY NM5HAOaHS AT 
TRE PIN/~ HAIL 1lP~l, Pli>Nt '1011 1 
I MAbf.fAfl, ITS THE NLIT&URO 
,;~"Q 
~ 
The Far Side 

6:30p.m. 16 22 28 
7p.m. 16 22 28 
34 

7:30p.m. 16 22 34 
8p.m. 16 
22 28 34 9p.m. 16 22 34 9:30p.m. 22 10p.m. 22 llp.m. 16 22 28 11:30p.m. 16 22 
Cornere.d by the street ducks, Phil exactly 
28 

sure what lo do -and then he remembered his 
12 gauge. 
36 Type of 47 Hamlet's 
barbershop friends 37 Top-notch 48 Rose's man 38 Landlord's 49 Discharge 
due 50 Detergent 42 Man of the 51 Single 
cloth time 43 Era 52 Riv'in in 44 Aid's pal Belgium 45 State in 54 In the past 
Brazil 55 Throng 46 Root for 56 George's perfumes brother 
Friday's Solution 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Hearty 5 Marble  35 Comprehen· sion prob· I em  58 Pierced with horns 59 Ethnic  12 Berate 13 Glass section  
10 Fastener 14 Harbinger 15 Twig broom 16 Ancient  39 Soul: Fr. 40 Bellini opera 41 Israeli  group 60 Orient 61 Roly-poly 62 Copycat  18 Algerian port 19 Office machine  
strong box 17 Jackknifed trailer, for one 20 Residue 21 Ponselle or Bonheur 22 Papal garment 23 "The Censor" 24 Add on 26 Duds 29 Cephalopod 30 Norse deity 31 Day's march for troops  airline 42 Isle of­43 Playwith baby 45 Girdle's relative 47 Money not paid 48 Eagle's nest 49 "-the Nation" 50 Oriental sauce 53 Law school highlights  DOWN Israeli dance 2 Minor prophet 3 Rachel's sister 4 Terminate 5 Clerics 6 Plasterof paris 7 Moviedog 8 Rocky crag 9 Big bird 10 Enmity 11 Believer:  23 Lawmaking group: abbr. 24 Jordan port 25 Insect stage 26 Falana of song 27 Dutch cheese 28 Mineral milieu 29 Pipe parts 31 Heron 32 Untamed 33 Make better 34 Heraldic  
32 Which one?  57 Rainbow  suff.  band  

Berke Breathed 



Campus 
OR IS IT ALL 

•12:15 p.m. -Workshop, "Economic Crisis in 
Of H006Y? 

Nicaragua," Dr. E.V.K Fitzgerald, library Lounge 
•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tionto Apple lie, 115 CCMB . 

•4 
p.m. -Dance Lecture, "How to Watch Modern Dance," Angela Allyn, Basement Theatre ofCCE, Abiogenesis 

•
7 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Law and Order," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Hamlet," Engineering Auditorium 


Dave& Dave 
' ---, 

•8 p.m. -Lecture, "The Role of Women in the
looK, PIIJAIP, 111 ErPtAtw 1 IT ~II IN A tUf£/L I 

Church," Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, Library 
Auditorium
1/EIIO 11/K/fA' WIIATS 60/N' 
0DWN1 tOH~Ab£? 

•9 p.m. -MondayNight Film Series II, "Miracle 
in Milan," Annenberg Auditorium
" 


TV Tonight 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News New~"Watch 28 NBC Nightly News CBS News ABC's World News Tonight MASH PM Magazine Joker's Wild Contemporary Health Issues Barney Miller Family Feud 
Straight~ Tv Blo~tJ rs, Commercials Practical Jokes Scarecrow and Mrs. King Winter Olympics Frontline Monday Night at the Movies Aftermash Great Performances Newhart 
Emerald Point, N.A.S. NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Tonight Show Hart to Hart/ Columbo Thicke of the Night 
and 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 2113/84 
"AN IRISH EVENING" with Comedian Hal Roach and The Paddy Noonan Band has, regrettably been cancelled. Tickets will be refunded at The Student Union Record Store 
What does the Student Union Record Store have for .me? 
• Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price Any record or tape may be ordered--takes 4-5 days 
NO EXTRA COST  
Blank tapes:  
TDKSA 90's TDKSA60's Maxell UDXL ll's • Postage Stamps  2 pk--$6.00 2 pk--$4.50 2 pk--$7.00  1--$3.25 1--$2.50 1--$3.75  



Sports 
Monday, February 13, 1984 -page 1-;. 
DePaul outmuscles Irish, 62-54; Notre Dame says goodbye to Ray 
ByWILLHARE ranked Demons ( 18-1 ) overcame a "We missed the "rock" 
Sports Writer 29-27 halftime deficit to earn their (Kempton) inside today," said Irish 
coach an important win. Kevin coach Digger Phelps. "We'rc a dif­
It was a case of the good, the bad, Holmes scored 14 points and hauled ferent team without him." 
and the ugly as DePaul upended down eight rebounds to lead In Kempton's place, Phelps used 
Notre Dame 62-';4 at the ACC Satur­Meyer's Demons in both categories. Donald Royal and Cecil Rucker. 
day. "We told him this was his Royal, a 6-7 freshman, started for just 
Good spirits were felt by all who (Meyer's) game," said DePaul guard the third time this year. Rucker, a 6-8 
attended the game as Blue Demon Kenny Patterson. "We knew this was senior, was recently benched for dis­
coach Ray Mt·yer battled his alma the one he wanted." ciplinary rea<;<JnS and had played just 
mater f(Jr the final tim<· in his 42-year However. it was not until the 24 minutes al I season long. Royal 
career and was honored in a pre­second halfthat !)(-Paul took charge.. and Rucker each logged 22 minutes. 
game n·remony. The Demons l'mployed a two­"I thought Royal did an excellent 
Yet, inconsistent officiating and a three zone in the second session to job, starting in his first big game," 
few bad calls stole the tender emo­take advantage of their quickness added Phelps. "Rucker came in and 
tions away from the partisan crowd and their strong physical play. did some of the things that we 
and turned them ugly. On several DePaul outrdxJUnded the Irish 23-needed." 
occasions, the contest was inter­10 in the half, tailing advantage of DePaul's frontline of Tyrone Cor­
rupted by the flinging oftoilet paper the loss of Irish center Tim bin, Marty Embry, Dallas Comegys, 
onto the court. Kempton. He is out for at least a and Holmes outscored the Irish 
But when it was over, the second-week with an injured leg. frontline 41-27 and aided the 
Demon victory. 
"The refs gave us a lot ofleeway ao; 
far as letting us play," said Holmes.

'Coach' Meyer stays 
"We came out a little timid in the first half, but our physical game was a big factor in the second half

personable to the end 
Holmes, a 6-8 sophomore, and 
Irish guard Tom Sluby were co­

ByJEFF BLUMB time many of his coa<:hing winners of the Wendell Smith 
Assistant Sports Editor philosophies were formed, and Award, presented to the most 
memories of the many times he has valuable player in the annual 
Everyone wanted a piece of him returned as an opposing coach. DePaul-Notre Dame matchup. Sluby 
after the game: media, fans, and That is what made Saturday so led all scorers with 23 points. 
general well-wishers~ hoping to special for the man. Marty Embry's slam dunk off of a 
meet this basketball legend named Four decades of opposing Notre jerry McMillan pass with 17:57 gave 
Ray Meyer. And he was doing his Dame coaches were there to honor DePaul their first lead at 33-31 and 
bt·st to accomodate them all be­Meyer -Moose Krause, John jor­the Irish could never surpass their 
<:ause that is the type ofman he is. dan, john Dee, and Digger Phelps. rivals. 
While signing autographs for as Each gave him a small gift ofadmira­Still, Notre Dame had its chances. 
many as he possibly could, the tion and love. After trailing 52-41 with 3:47 left, 
radiant expression on Meyer's f.Ke But Meyer was given even more 
see DEPAUL, page 9 

never darkened. He was doing all he love by the capacity crowd in the could to please everyone. ACC. Nearly everyone was there a The signature said a lot about the full twelve minutes before the 
Women's basketball 

man. opening tipoff holding up large Good IUI:k! paper hearts that had been dis­Ray Meyer tributed upon entrance. 
Notre Dame overcomes Villanova 
DePaul The message on the hearts was 
The fact that Meyer associates simple and sincere. "We love you 
himself so closely with DePaul that Ray." By MIKE SULLIVAN The Irish were able to beat Harry nine-point win over UCLA in early 
he makes it part of his signature is The sight was awesome. Sports Editor Perretta's Wildcats, who had en­December. 
interesting. But after 42 years of Nary a person who was there can tered the game with a 16-5 record, A fast-paced, high-scoring game 
coaching basketball at the Chicago say that, deep down, the message on When the Notre Dame women's by putting together their best of­would not seem the type ofgame to 
school, it is conceivable that such a the hearts wasn't a true reflection of basketball team beat the talented fensive performance since the first get the Irish back on track, but they 
signature is only second nature to their feelings at the time. The Irish Villanova Wildcats, 85-79, Saturday game of the year in November. Six were able to get good offensive 
the man known to everyone as may have lost the game, but Saturday night in the ACC, it brought back players scored in double figures, led production from nearly everyone 
"Coach." was still one of those golden "Notre some memories of last season when by Carrie Bates's 20 points, and the who played, while Villanova had to 
Don't believe that DePaul is the Dame moments" -for everyone, the Irish made a late-season surge combined efforts were enough to rely on forward Pennefather and only university that Meyer has but especially Meyer. that almost landed them in a post­offset the 35-point barrage by Vil­senior guard Nancy Bernhardt to strong feelings for, though. A 1938 "When 1 saw the crowd with season tournament. It was an impor­lanova's freshman sensation Shelly provide all of the offense. The two graduate of Notre Dame, he played those hearts, a tear came to my eye," tant win over a very good team in a Pennefather. Wildcats scored 59 of the team's 79 three years of bao;ketball for the recalled "Coach" afterward. "I got a very close game. "It wasn't a very pretty game, in­points and took 50 of the team's 66 Irish. He was a top sub on George little emotional and sentimental. I Although things have changed stead it was very physical, and we're shots. Keogan's 1936 national champion­wanted to beat UCLA at lJCLA and since last year -Notre Dame took usually overwhelmed in physical "Usually, our goal is to hold each ship before being named captain of Notre Dame at Notre Dame in my itself out of tournament contention games," said Irish coach Mary DiS­opponent to 64 points each game, so the squad for his final two seasons. final season (which he did)." long ago -the win could prove to tanislao. "But we were due. Before we didn't malle that goal," said Rates. 
The memories run deep for this The DePaul players were fully be more important than any other in the game, (Assistant Coach) Mary "But we had a lot of people score 
lovable old man: memories of his concious ofwhat the game meant to the past two years as it may have Murphy and I were talking about while they just had the two. It shows 
playing days in the old fieldhouse, Meyer. They not only wanted to win stopped the team's worst slump in how these things ruu in circles and how much more well-rounded our 
memories of two years as an assis­three years -four wins in the last the bad strcall would eventually team is. If you have good subs, it's a 
see MEYER, page 10 
tant under Keogan during which 13 games before Saturday. end." big help to the team." 
If the win, indeed, turned things The depth showed itself through­Record 21-1-1 around, it could not have come at a out !he game as various players took 
much better time. With the turns leading the offense. For the 
prospects of a below-.SOO season first half, forward Trena Keys and 
looming larger ami larger, the Irish, guard Laura Dougherty helped keep


Hockey team defeats, ties Penn St. 
who are now 9-12, desparately the Irish in the game while Pennefat­By ED DOMANSKY stands at 21-1-1 with just four games "They were concerned about get­needed a win over the Wildcats. hcr and Bernhardt poured in tht· SjJorts Writer remaining in the regular seao;on. ting blown out," said head coach Now, with just seven conference points. The two scored 22 points be­
After a slow start in Friday's game. Lefty Smith, "so they just laid back games remaining, they arc looking tween them, and Dougherty's two 
J<>IINSH)WN, Penn. The the Irish led 3-2 after two periods, and looked for some brealls." to close out the season much like baskets in tht· last minute of the half Notre Dame hockey team came but found themselves having to rally Joe Bowie's slapshot from the left they did last year. boosted Notre Dame to a 40-~6 away with a tie and a win this in the final period to salvage the tie point at 6:08 of the opening period "It's hard to tell right now ifwe've halftime lead. Wt'l'kt·nd in its non-conference after Penn State scored twice early dropped out of the glove of Penn got things turned ari'Jund, hut it sure As the pace picked up in the series at Penn State. The two teams in the stanza. l'our separate players State netminderJohn Davis and into feels good," said Bates, whose 10-of­second half, thl' Irish continued to skatnl 10 a 'l-4 tic on l'riday; but on had the Notre Dame goals. the net giving the Irish a 1-0 lead that ll performance from the foul line hold otTthe blazing Pennefather( I 7­Saturday, the Irish made it known On Saturday, the Irish again got otT held through the remainder of the helped hold off the Wild<:ats in the (f-24 from the fidd) by getting that the tic should never have been to a slow start and trailed 1-0 after stanza. second hal[ "They're a good team production from both the front line hy whipping the Nittany Lions hy a the first period. Gary Becker got the At 6:08 of the second period, the and it was close in the end, hut we and the guards. Mary Beth Schueth 6-1 score. Notre Dame offense going with his Nittany Lions pulled even when still won." and Bates were able to score ef­
Chippy play at times by each tally early in the second period. Bob Greg Powers tipped home a center­fectively from inside while guards team, combined with inept officiat­Thebeau and Adam Parsons each ing pass from JeffSpeece. The fact that the Irish won despite Lynn Ebben and Vonnie Thompson ing, lead to both games being added two goals as the Irish went on The goal brought the Penn State the close score may be the most sig­were able to put in some shots over penalty-filled affairs. to score three times in each of the to life and the pace of the game nificant point of the whole game. the Villanova defense. 
When the team's propane torch, final two periods. began to pick up. llntil Saturday, DiStanislao's team Still, the Wildcats held a 71-70 used to curve sticks, exploded on In respect for the potent Notre "They sensed that we were off," had been having a very hard time in lead over the Irish with 3:46 remain­Friday morning in the lockerroom Dame attack, the Penn State team said Tom Parent. "They knew we close games. In fact, in the eight ing. Thompson hit a I ()-foot jumper before practice, it was probably an played a laid-back, zone-style weren't tailing it to them like they games this season that have been to put the Irish ahead to stay, omen of the crazy things to come. defense that kept the Irish offense decided by less than than 10 points,
see HOCKEY, page 10 see WOMEN, page 9 
The Notre Dame record now from getting on track. Notre Dame had won just one -a 




