
-----~j 
Freshman guide -page 13 

VOL XIX, NO. 2 TUESDAY, AUGUST 28, 1984 

Student Affairs Office restructured by Tyson; senior staff replaced 
By SARAH HAMILTON structure, what kind ofgeneral areas Neu•s Editor do I see?" He determined there are two such areas -residential and stu­
Father David Tyson, formerly ex­dent services. 
tTUtive assistant to the president of With these ideas in mind Tyson 
the University, has been named vi<.·e crea~ed the offices of the associate 
president for student affairs to vice president for residence life and 
replan· Fathl·r John Van Wolvlear, the assistant vice president for stu­
who resignnllast spring. dent services. In doing so he did 
Tyson's appointment wa~ ap­away with the position of director of 
proved at the Board ofTrustees May housing and revised the responsi­
4 Jlll'l'ting. Tyson said he was bilities ofthe assistant vice president 
surprist:d hy thl· hoard's decision. for student affairs and the Dean of 
However, he added he has been in­Students. 



volved in Student Affair~ for a long Tyson offered this explanation for timl·. In the past Tyson has served as his restructuring. "Nothing is a rl·sidl·nt assistant in Flanner Hall normative, if we sec a bt:tter way we and an assistant rl'l"IOr in Dillon Hall. might change it." Prt'Sl'ntly, hl· is living in Dillon. Once Tyson restructured the of­

The Oh~crvcr /Petc l..achn
After a~suming the vice fice he began looking for people to presidency in early June, Tyson staff it. "I said, do I know any people restnll."tUrl·d the office. He said he that given these structures would be Fatht>r David Tyson relaxes in his new office as vicepresidentfor did this hy asking himself, "IfI came student affairs. 


ofl the strl"Ct and there was no see TYSON, page 9 Father Francis Cafarelli 

Final ND alcohol regulations prohibit student tailgaters 
By DAN McCULLOUGH big one," he said. liability," he said. rooms at any social gatherings that depend on common sense News Edllor In the final report of the alcohol Tyson agreed. "That's basically for any reason extend beyond the judgement on the part of the committee, . tailgaters are not true. 'lbe trustees pointed out the privacy of the room in which they students. 
Editor's note: Sections of this banned. "It would be almost inconsistencies within the report. are held," the document states. He added that contrary to what article rem In Saturday's freshmen impossible to eliminate alcohol at Even students pointed out the "Moreover, any gatherings in private the first draft of the alcohol orientation Issue but bave been tailgaters on football weekends; ludicrousness of some of the rooms, regardless ofthe presence of directives said, "No numeric values reprinted bere to Inform tbe entire therefore, these should be allowed," recommendations of the report as alcohol, that are not consistent with will be set." campus ofthe developments on this the report states. compared to others. I could see that the good order of the residence hall Numeric values have been set on Issue. But members of the University's it was a blaring inconsistency," he are not allowed." the number of all hall parties that 
lbe new akohol policy Board ofTrustees who reviewed the said. "lbe acceptance of tailgaters Rectors are being encouraged to will be allowed per semester. "Each regulations ban students from report argued this was inconsistent was clearly out of mind of what the use "good common sense and good hall may have a maximum oftwo ( 2) 
l 
organizing pre-game tailgaters. "No with the essence of the moderate committee meant by the spirit ofthe discretion" in determining whether All Hall Semi-Formal parties per Mudent, student organization, or use of alcohol. "'Ibis was an area the report." or not a social gathering is a "party," semester," the document states. r~·sidence hall may organize or Board of Trustees wa~ terribly Student Body President Rob said Goldrick. Last May, Former Dean of sponsor 'tailgaters' on campus or on concerned about," said John Bertino acknowledged that Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice Students James Roemer said this any adjacent fields or parking lots at Goldrick, associate vice-president tailgaters presented a peculiar president for student affairs, defined might be one of the directive's any time for the purpose of serving for residence life. "When they problem for administrators. "The the type of social gathering that negotiable points. But Tyson said, alcoholic hevt·rages," the policy brought this up, it seemed to make a University is going by Indiana state would be allowed as "the type of "We took this number from the states. distinction between alcohol abuse law and legal liability. The tailgater gathering you could expect to be recommendations of the alcohol 
~ 
Vice President for Student Affairs and where it was done. And it issue is based solely on 100 percent reasonable in your own home." She committee. The issue became not so Father David Tyson admitted seemed not to address the final issue liability," he said. added, "This is really to help protect much what is reliable but what is student sentiment would probably the responsible use ofalcohol." Parties are still outlawed in the the rights of the kids." rea~onable." He added he didn't be strongly against this new "It became a matter of legal current new regulations. "No Goldrick noted that the 
see RULES, page 8
re~ulation. ""lbat's going to be the liability a:. well as educational alcohol may be served in private maintenance of good order will 
~~--~~----~~~~~~~~~----~--------------------, 
I

No suspect found in Rowley murder 
ByMARGARETFOSMOE zure was not related to Rowley's Executive Editor death, according to Moore. Thoma~ Forsgren, the IRS offi­
Nearly four weeks after the cial who seized the property. execution-style slaying of Corby would not indicate whether tavern owner Harold Rowley, Jr., anyone ha~ approached him the murder remains unsolved, ac· about paying the taxl·s. If the cording to Captain Charles taxes are not paid, the property Mabank of the South Bend Police may eventually be sold by the Detective Bureau. IRS, said Forsgren. 
"We are interviewing a lot of C.T.I. is being administered by people who are, in one way or an­Rowley's father, Harold Rowley, other, involved in the incident," Sr., of Palos Heights, Ill., until the Mabank told The Observ<.'f'. estate is settled, according to a 
Meanwhile, the popular stu­spokesman in the office of attor­dent bar, located at 1026 Corby ney Henry Hoover. Hoover is an Ave., remains closed. 'lbe bar was attorney for Rowley, Sr. seized and closed la~t 'lltursday lbe spokesman would not say in a "collection inforcement pro­whether Rowley, Sr., planned to cedure" by the Internal Revenue pay the back taxt·s so that Corhy's Service. could reopen. He did say the 
Back employment taxes totall­liabilities ofC.T.l. "far exceed the ing S 12,928.1 S are owed by assets." C.T.l., Inc., which owns the bar, "'lbe estate could be insolvent
can reopen. Harold Rowley, jr., the owner of tbeCorh}• Ttwern. a popular Fir'e Corners bar, was 
and must be paid before Corby's and Corby's could be closed for
tm'erll, was murdered in an execution-styleseiZ<'d ·tmd closed Thursday hy tbe Internal 
qm reopen, said Deborah Moore, good," the spokesman said. "Each
shooting Aug. I.
R<'Venue Sen1ice. Nearly S13,000 in back 
public affairs officer for the IRS in
!'mployment taxes must be patti before tbe bar see CORBY'S, page 9
Indianapolis. 'llte property sci­
---------------------------------------.:;;111:::<-;0;;:h:-;><::.rv::::er/Maq~arc:t Fo~moc.· 

r--·-­
~ 
~ 
f 
t 
r 
The Observer 

In Brief 

Freshmen DeanEmil Hofman,who is also a 
professor of chemistry has been named one of the nation's top 25 professors in a competition sponsored by the Council for the Ad­vancement and Support of Education. Among his other awards are ­the Madden Award for Freshman Teaching, Notre Dame's Presiden­tial Service Citation, the Alumni Association's Armstrong Award, and an alumni science achievement award from the Catholic Univer­sity of America, which Emil attended as an undergraduate. -The Obseroer 
The DepartmentofAccountancyhas been 
accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Busi­ness (AACSB) at the annual meeting in Pho~nix last May. Both the graduate and undergraduate programs have been accredited for several years and were last reaccredited in April 1983. Fewer than 250 of the approximate 1,200 colleges and universities in this country that offer undergraduate business degrees are accredited by the AACSB. Only 200 of the more than 550 master's programs are accredited. -The Obseroer 
A $100,000 gift was received by Notre Dame for the Memorial Library to purchase new audio equipment. The gift, from Ronald and Lewis Renner of Indianapolis will establish the Renner Family Audio-Learning Center on the second floor of the library. Ronald Renner, a i 956 graduate, is president ofthe Renner Trucking Company. -The Obseroer 
Two hundred ten personsreceived degrees at Notre Dame's summer commencement Aug. 3 in the Athletic and Convocation Center. Prof. Donald Costello, chairman ofthe Depart­~ent of American Studies and Communication Arts, delivered the commencement address, and Provost Timothy O'Meara presided over the conferral ofdegrees. Graduates included 149 receiving the master's degree, 44 the baccalaureate, 16 the Ph.D. and one a law degree. -The Observer 
A heart attack killed William Sayers, 59, of Mis­hawaka, Aug. 12 on the No.tre Dame golfcourse. Glenn Terry, direc­tor of Notre Dame security, said Sayers was part ofa foursome near the 15th hole when he collapsed. Attendants from the McGann Am­bulance Division were called to the golfcourse, but were unsuccess­ful in attempts to revive him. -The Obseroer 
Of Interest 

"Magic Walk," a 6.5 mile walk on Riverside Drive to benefit St. Jude Children's Research Hospital is looking for partici­pants. Although the walk is scheduled for Saturday, Sept. 29 in South Bend at Pinhook Park, its organizers need people to pre-register now. Registration is from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. the day ofthe walk, and the walk will officially start at 10 a.m. rain or shine. Show Biz Bear will participate by walking and Performance in Motion Street Cars of South Bend will be at the park for public viewing. For more informa­tion contact Annemarie Yanko at 289-4333.-The Obseroer 
Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for 
the Study of American Catholicism will make available two $2,000 research grants to fund Irish-American studies. The grants, funded by the Ancient Order of Hibernians and its Ladies Auxiliary, will be given to postdoctoral scholars ofany academic discipline engaged in research on the experience oflrish people in the United States. Ap­plications for the 1985 Hibernian Research Awards should be made before Dec. 31 to Jay Dolan, director of the Cushwa Center. -The Obseroer 
Auditions for Sweeney Todd will be held to­
morrow night and Thursday in Washington Hall at 7:30. They are open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. There are ten lead parts, all requiring singing, and a company of thirty which serves, to narrate, or provide commentary on the action of the plot. In addi­tion, there are minor speaking and acting roles. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
,, ,

Partly cloudy and very warm I-~=ol
lr#'

today. High in the upper 80s. Fair and mild tonight. ~ Low in the upper 60s. Tomorrow, mostly sunny and hot. High around 90. -The Obseroer 
--_j 

The Observer 
The Observer ( ~-~~~ ';l)l) 2-~000) is puhlishc.:t..l :\1onday through Friday am.l on home t(mthall Saturday~. t..·xc.:t:pt durin~ t·xam and \·ac.:ation pt:rim..l~. The Observer is puhlishrd h)· thr .rudt·ntsof tht· l'nin·r~iry of N'Jtrc Dame and ~aim \lary·~ Culkgc. Suh:-.t..·ription~ may ht· pur~hasc:d for S2<; pa yrar ( S I<; p<:r sc:mcstt:r) h~ wrilinK The Observer. 
P.O. Box(,}. :'\lotrc: l>amc:.lndiana -t6'l'l6. 
The Observer is a membc:r ofThe As­sociated Press. All n:prm.Juuion right~ art· reM"r\'t:d. 
Today's Issue was produced by: 
Design Editor .............................. Tom Small Design Assistant ........... Maureen Murphy Typesetters ..........................Kevin Williams News Editor .............,.,............ Tess Guarino Copy Editor ........................... Dan and Sarah Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... K3.tie Doyle Viewpoint Layout .................... Dave Grote Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout........................ Mary Healy ND Day Editor ........................ Barb Stevens Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix Photographer ............................ Pete Laches 

Tuesday, August 28, 1984-page 2 



Big Sister is watching you 
No matter where I go or what I do, I will always be a little brother to my big sister. If I climbed Mount Everest in shorts after swimming the Indian Ocean to get there, my big sister would arrive to warn me against talking with my mouth full when eating with the natives. 
There surely is something in the natural order of things that requires the passage of such knowledge from big sister to kid brother. On my first days in high school, my mother did not fear because my big sister was there to help me. In the morning, I would check my shirt-pant combo with my fashion coordinator (who happened to live in the bedroom next door) to make 
sure I had not committedsome fashion faux pas -such as a striped shirt with plaid pants -that would send the average ninth-grade male home at lunch to change. 
Mothers are good at buying your first suit and select­ing new drapes for your room, but big sisters keep you on the straight and narrow of teenage social existence. Oh, we little brothers 
Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Tuesd 

armed with a new car and a bachelor's degree. There she will join the ranks of the young professionals and enjoy cocktails in cool bars after work. Her boss is a woman as is her boss's boss. Gender, it is rumored, will not be a consideration for advancement. 
I can tell from observing my big sister that even though the Equal Rights Amendment is all but dead, wo­men have found a place in the American business hierarchy. Many women have become successful doing jobs men have traditionally held -although men seem 
less comfortable doing jobs 
pretend not to listen to the once preserved for women . advice and are relieved Certainly discrimination, when mother asks at dinner however subtle, still exists, to change the subjectplease. but now they tell me that the 
I wonder sometimes how vice president of the United big sisters become privy to States could be a woman (if such knowledge, and I the economy crumbles or if suspect it comes from bombs are dropped on Rus­reading all those magazines sia in five minutes). full of advertisements only She doesn't use her hus­big sisters would want to band's surname -not even a read anyway. hyphen. And the latest word 
Living with a big sister is is that despite the unwar­like living with a resident ranted attack from a bored Abigail Van Buren, except media, Mrs. Ferraro and Mr. this one convinces you that Zaccaro actually paid too she knows what she's talking much in taxes. about. One night after dress­It seems ifanyone is doing 

ing for a dance to which I was invited and to which I reluctantly agreed, I complained to Dear Sister that something had erred somewhere between my blue tie and brown jacket. The answer: "Never look your best for a girl you don't really care about." 
Immortal words. A great confidence booster for a 17­year-old with an ugly tie. (I wonder now, however, if the same advice is given by the big brothers of little sisters I might ask out.) 
College roommates make poor big sisters. They shovel their food in the dining hall and put posters of rock guitarists on their walls. My big sister does neither. "Shovelling" food is not accepted, she says. In polite company, such as eating dinner at the White House or with your girlfriend's parents, lowering your head to meet your fork three inches above your head is an insult to the cook and a bad reflection on your upbringing. 
I bring all this up because during this year of 1984 far too much has been made of Big Brother and scarcely little of Big Sister. My sister left this summer for Dallas, 
the watching these days, 
both Big Brother and Big Sister will share the job. My big sister still calls me and asks about the little things in life. But more and more these days I am getting used to the idea that she herself will someday help handle the bigger things in the world. 
~ 

The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on theViewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or otherwise, are the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board orThe Obseroer staff. 

Carpet your dorm room with thick, beautiful carpet, but not empty your pocketbook! Sizes &om 6X9, 12X7, 12X8 12X9,12X12,12X13,12X14,12Xl5,12Xl6,12Xl8 
and up.  
Bring Your Measurements  
DORM ROOM SPECIALS  VISA and MasterCard accepted  
Additional IS% OFF  Open Daily 10-6 Sat. 10-5  234-5148  
with coupon  Closed Sunday  

~ 

The Observer 
~--~--Tuesday, Au~s~ 28,1984-page 3-l 
Car crash Quality is top priority for Hickey 
Special to The Observer The Ivy Award was presented to heart attack, and stepped down as 
Notre Dame in January, but the director of food service for a few 
When Food Service Director feature story on ND's Food Services weeks. He lost weight during William Hickey, Jr., told dining hall did not appear in the magazine until recuperation and has returned this workers in 1982 that "you're here to May. fall as director. 
kills Grace 

resident 
serve the students as customers," "I am really proud of it and so is "I'm an Irish Catholic who was By MARC RAMIREZ they were at first "bewildered," ac­my staff," Hickey said. "The profes­born in Yonkers," Hickey told the Assistant News Editor cording to the May 9 issue of sion has recognized that good things magazine. "And my parents talked 
Restaurants and Institutions maga­are happening at Notre Dame." about Notre Dame when I was a kid. 
People really miss someone who zine. The Food Services' most impres­I always wanted to be here. It sound they've plannt·d to spend a couple Now two years after Hickey came sive project, according to the maga­corny-but it's very true." more years with, and james Arthur to campus, the Ivy Award-consid­zine, was the catered cocktail DiNardo was no exception. ered the most prestigious award reception, a sit-down dinner and a Formerly, Hickey was director of 
A pre-med major, DiNardo lived
DiNardo, a 2I·year·old Notre given in the food serve industry -ha brunch, served for 4,000 at the 1984 food services at both the University
in Ridgway, Pennsylvania. "He was
Dame junior, was killed in an auto­come to Not(e Dame. The magazine Junior Parents Weekend. One of Illinois-Chicago and Princeton 
the kind of student who got very in­
mobile accident onJuly 22. He was a article details the reasons Notre course featured flaming baked University. "We think our institution 
terested and excited in theology,"
resident of Grace Hall. Dame was chosen the best food ser­Alaska for dessert. is just as good as the Ivy League's," 
said St. Edward's Hall Assistant Rec­
"The suddenness and unex­vice at an institution. "When I came here two years ago, Hickey told The Obsen1er last janu­
tor Father Gerald Lardner, who
pectedness really came as a shock to Much credit goes to Hickey, ac­the students' perception offood ser­ary. "We go through a lot of extra 
taught DiNardo in an Introduction
Jim's friends," said Father David cording to the magazine which also vice was absolutely horrendous," effort. That's the difference." 
to Theology class. "Theology helped
Noone, Grace Hall rector. "He was sponsors the award. "Hickey's style the magazine quotes Hickey as 
him, gave him personal meaning.
well-liked by a lot ofpeople." ofspeaking reflects his style ofwork: saying. "So first of all, we had to This Thursday for lunch, Notre 
"Jim was real easy-going. He had a
Noone added he was very im­· high-energy, non-stop and hard­develop credibility with our cus­Dame Food Services is sponsoring
witty sense of humor. I saw him of­
pressed with the faith and courage of hitting," the article said. "Is it a ton of tomers.... Secondly, we had to im­"A Taste of Notre Dame," where 
ten because he was a Red Cross
DiNardo's parents. "We received a tofu, a sea ofspaghetti or a mountain prove the productivity and the pride more than 80 food vendors will dis­
worker. He was very generous with
letter from his family," he said. ofmostaccioli? William Hickey,)r., ... of the people who worked in Jood play food products on Stepan Center 
his time." 
"They've been very appreciative of doesn't care as long as the food service. And third, we had to build Field. A picnic dinner will be held the love and concern shown by his A service is planned for DiNardo quality is tops (and) the presenta­up the quality offood." Friday afternoon on Stepan Center friends." within the next few weeks. tion is creative." Last spring, Hickey suffered a Field. 


Canada busy preparing for Pope's visit in September 
After covering about 8,500 miles, first arrived 449 years ago with ex­cross has been erected.,at a military dian village in the Northwest Ter­
As!loclated Press 
airport being turned rnto a site ritories, where he will take part inthe pope will arrive in Ottawa, the plorerjacques Cartier. 
where John Paul can celebrate MassTORONTO -With trinkets on sale last of 13 cities on the tour, on a spe­There he begins an agenda of 60 ceremonies designed to highlightgiant crosses erected and shrubbery cial glass-covered boat gliding down events, taking him by train to Trois for more than a million people. After native conceptions of spiritualitycleared for tent cities ncar the Arctic a five-mile canal through the Gothic­Rivieres and Montreal, both in an excursion to Midland, Ontario, toCircle, Canadians from coast to style government buildings of the Quebec province, then backtrack­visit the shrine ofmissionaries killed and will meet with leaders ofcoa.~t ~~d far into the north are pre­capital. ing by plane to St. John's, New­by Indians, the pope flies west to Canada's major Indian and Eskimoparing for Pope john Paul II's ex­

foundland-the eastern tip ofNorth
More than 11 million of Canada's · Winnipeg, Edmonton and Van­
haustive tour of this huge country America -where he will bless a fleet organizations.
couver before ending in Ottawa.

25 million people call themselvesnext month. 
of fishing boats in the nearby com­Since many ofthe pope's stops areRoman Catholic, but no pope hasFrom battered fishing boats to munity ofFiatrock. 
ever visited this country, the world's From Edmonton, two side trips
shining office towers to martyrs' within driving distance of major U.S. 
second-largest. The pope continues to Moncton, are planned. One day is set aside for 
crypts to a tiny Indian village, the population centers, manyNew Brunswick, and H.alifax, Nova private relaxation nearby in the
pope will see more of Canada in 12 John Paul wiU land Sept. 9 in Scotia, then on to Torontb, Canada's Canadian Rockies. In addition, the Americans are expected to swell thedays than most Canadians can hope 
Quebec City, where Catholic priests biggest city, whe.reaii' 85-foot high pope will fly to Fort Simpson, an In· crowds.
to see in a lifetime. 

Two Great Locations 
for Students 21 

or older, ask about.our 
Barnaby's Mug Club :; membership 
m
=lM 
(

Barnaby's offers the best pizza and sandwiches I in town. We also offer soup and salad. Beverages include soft drinks, draft beer and wine (for those 21 yrs.) You get fast service and 
Try our Pizza --Your Choice-­
more for your money at Barnanby's! 
2 Item Large Pizza $5.00 with coupon 
In House Party Discounts!! 
We will deliver 5 or more pizza and give discounts!! 
Ye Old Irish Pub!! 
Mon. thru Thurs. 11 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Sunday 4 to 10 p.m. 
713 E. Jefferson, South Bend 
288-4981 

3724 Grape Rt"Mishawaka


sARNABYs 
256-0528 


••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 

* CHOOSE FROM 1700 PlECES!
*l PlMOEMOIIIUM Of VALUE! 
*AREVELRY Of SAVING! *PLEASE -NO DEALERS 
Colouallees! TltanicCabin Crafts! The ware­house of these giants were glutted with remnants, loaded with roll-ends, pieces accumulated from their greatest season ever, In such profusion as to throttle their operations near-completely. They had to sell and sell quickly -and that's when "CARPET-WAY" s•epped ln. With a dramatic, hard cash wipe-out oHer, we bought every single piece we could at bore rock-bottom-and now we pan 
the savings on to youI 
PERFECT FOR • • • 
BEDROOMS 
BATHROOMS 
KITCHENS 

BASEMENTS 
BUY NOW FOR••• FLOORS WALLS STEPS DECKS 
ONE OF THE 
WORLD'S 
GREATEST! ' 
CARPET 
REMNANT 


SALE 

SALE HOURS: 
WEEKDAYS 10 'Til 9 PM SATURDAY 10 'TIL 5:30 
SUNDAY 1 'TIL 6 PM 
PET 

• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shag. twist, plush,loop, tweed, cut/uncut, mil.ti-level figured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up these values on the spot 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills
-

DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
Moderate Ch.arge 
INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 
Sorry No lay-a-way, No haW ordwo, No phone or mall o;-den, All wbject to prior oale, All pricing Ia ­ccnh and corry boala, AI d..._.liono • • mlnlmunK. 
FREE, FRONT DOOR PARKING 
IDEAL FOR •.• TRAILERS COnAGES CLOSETS STATION WAGONS 
_.. FINANCING ,. AVAILABLE 
PERFECT FOR ... 
DORMITORIES 
APARTMENTS STUDY ROOMS ANY ROOMS 

OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTED 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Oolcl  , Ivory  Carmel  Jonquil  Orien,_l  
""k Aqua  Nuvv•• Saddle  Apri,ot A•ocodo  Sauterne Abslnt'tle  Plneoppa. Gardenia  
Ll,.  lisque  Oresde"  Ambe"'lo•  Plaming•  
Jade  Aaatea  lahoma  lluebel!  'oololde  
Coin Olive  c ...... Copper  ltaprUcas • .,.u.  loyboll Hyacinth  latl'teGr-n Cloudy Jade  
Gr-n  Nougat  Jonquil  Heliotrope  Jroued Cocoe  
lolgo  'urplo  Honey  Cor~•• led  heteo llue  
Carmel  A atee  Irona•  Ivy Gr..n  Grecian Olive  
Iron.:•  Autumn  Magenta  Manderin  Mont~oSond  
Whit•­ legal  Saddle  O'eon Green  MuHinhlgo  
Aaur•  Marine  lisqve  Turquoise  White Ora..­ 

AREA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY STORE 
MARY'S) 

CARPET-WAY
ST

N D AND • 
31 (H1wAY-BETWEEN • ;_ N.-0.
5
DIRECTIONS: T ACKKc,~· SON SAML SloE OF H•wPY , 50760 U. S. 31 North ORTH To SANDO • South Ben Indiana ... next door to Sandock's Furn 

----~~--------------~.._..-----~--­
---~ 
The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 5 ~ 
Lyons and Morrissey ~ 
,


undergo renovations 
By KEITII HARRISON,jr. In Walsh Hall, the chapel was 
j

SentorStoffReporter painted and new lights were in­stalled. 
Approximately S 1.25 million was Other buildings on campus were spent renovating four Notre Dame renovated during the summer. The residence halls during the summer, repairs of the Washington Hall according to Don Dedrick, director theater continued, although some of Physical Plant. work remains to be done. "We're 
Most of the work was done in waiting for soundproof door frames Lyons and Morrissey halls. "Every to come In," said Dedrick. inch of plumbing"_ was replaced in "Hopefully, we'll get them this 
both halls, said Dedrick. In addition, week." a new lavatory fixture was installed Construction continued on the ~ In every room, he said. animal research addition to the Gal­
The hallways of Morrissey and vin Life Science Center and the: new Lyons were also renovated. Each hal­swimming pool adjacent to the Ath­lway was repaired and painted, and letic and Convocation Center. new carpeting was installed, accor­
"lbe research center will prob­ding to Dedrick. 
ably be completed by April, 1985,"Some of the renovations were said Dedrick. "We: hope to have: the:

safety-oriented. "Partial sprinkler swimming pool ready by August of
systems were Installed In the storage 1985."
rooms, and the exit stair towers were brought up to fire regulation New roofs were: constructed on standards," said Dedrick. O'Shaughnessy Hall and the: 
Minor renovations were done in Hammes Bookstore, and part of the: two other Notre Dame dorms. In roof of the University Club was Farley Hall, the electrical system was replaced. The: firehouse: was painted, rewired, and new electrical outlets and Its roofwas also replaced, accor­
were installed in all the rooms, ac­ding to Dedrick. cordlns to Dedrick.. "The: basement of the: Memorial 

' 
~ 
You're into higher math and your old calculator helped get you there. 
But now it's time for something more. The 11-66 from Texas Instruments. The TI-66 offers full programming power and tlexihiliry so you can solve complex and rept:titive math problems quickly, easily and with fewer keystrokes than you thought possible. Its 512 merged pro­gram steps and over 170 built-in scientific, engineering and statistical functions make for powerful program-
library was also renovated," said Dedrick.. "That will be: the: new loca· tion of the: Placement Office." 
Minor renovations were: made: at Saint Mary's College: over the: sum­mer. Lake Marian was temporarily drained in order to accomodatc: bridge repairs. 
LeMans parking lot was 
resurfaced, and the railroad tracks 
were paved over. 
WELCOME BACK Notre Dame Students 
from 
Beacon Bowl 
4210 Liacola Way W. 234-4167 located on US 20 by S.B. Airport 
ate•for IRON •pecfala ,..,_ v-­

Navy Nursing 
2 careers in 1! 
FIRST -You're a Navy Nurse. You work in a Professional E"Wironment and have the opportunity for advanced training. You are also in an Im­mediate supervisory position. 
SECOND You are a Navy officer. This in­cludes travel and adven­ture. Your salary and ben­efits are comparable to civilian nursing. 
REQUIREMENTS 
BSN degree, or a three­year diploma with one

ming. And the sleek, streamlined design guidebook so you shouldn't get confused. 
year related experience.

makes for easy use. And last, but certainly not least, at a Its Algebraic Operating System makes suggested retail of $69.95, theresa price it easy on your brain by allowing you to that's easy on your pocketbook. 
key in problems as they are written, left All in all, if we made the TI-66 pro­SEND YOUR RESUME TO: 
to right. And a 10-digit angled Liquid grammable calculator any easier to use, 
Navy Medical Programs Am 643 

Crystal Display not only makes it easy 
• 575 N. Pennsylvania

it ""uld OOef~ ,.,
on your eyes but provides alphanumeric 
lpdianapolis, IN 46204

notation of your program steps so you can make easy modifications as you go along. There are large, readable keys INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products 
\ OR CALL KATHY SCANLON

for your fingers, and an easy-to-follow and services for you. 
TOLL FREE: 
1-800-382-9782 
--------~ 

~~--~~--~ 
Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 6
, The Observer 
Observer student fee raised by one dollar 
By P.A. CIMINO 
StaffReporter 
The student Obseroer fee was in­creased by 20 percent this semester as a result of some changes within the newspaper's operations. 
Every Nutre -Dame and Saint Mary's student is charged for The Obseroer on the tuition bill. The fee, which was approved last spring by administrators at both schools, was increased one dollar to 56.00 per se­
mester. 
The Obseroer has undergone a 
number of changes during the last 
three months, the biggest being the 
installation of a new computer sys­
tem. 
The new Alpha Micro system in­cludes 16 new terminals, one of which will be located at the Saint Mary's Obseroer office. The system "has a better processor, and as a result it's about four times faster than the old one," said Kevin Wil­liams, systems manager for The Obseroer. According to Williams, the system has a more reliable back­up and better hardware compatibil­ity. 

The paper also bought a used Mergenthaler typesetter. Williams noted The Obseroer "got an in­credible trade-in" on its system and typesetter. The total package, pur­chased from PreFix, lnc., ofSchaum­burg, Ill., cost 593,000. 
The paper has also changed printing companies. The new com­pany, The Papers, Inc., of Milford, Ind., has promised better quality to match its slightly higher price. 
"The Obseroer changed to what we consider to be a better quality 
printer,"  said  Dave  Taiclet,  the  
paper's business manager.  
Paper  delivery  should  also  
become  more  reliable  as  The  

Obseroer has budgeted funds to buy a new delivery vehicle next semes­
ter. 
Finally, the newspaper's office has seen the addition ofsome new office equipment and a few repairs. "We are trying to improve The Obseroer's image," commented Taiclet. 
The newspaper's improvements amount to a 1.4 cent increase per issue. 

Most Notre Dame studentsparticipated in the semester ritual ofregistration yesterday. This was thesceneat8:45 a.m. in theACC.Students were on line for an estimated 20 minutes. By the early afternoon lines were nonexistent. 

Beer consumption may be linked to pitchers 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -Adrinker consumes more than twice as much beer if it comes in a pitcher than in a glass or bottle, and banning pitchers in bars could make a dent in the drunken driving problem, a researcher said Monday. 
E. Scott Geller, a psychology pro­
fessor  at  Virginia Polytechnic  In­ 
stitute  and  State  University  in  
Blacksburg,  studied  drinking  in  
three bars near campus.  

He said his study also found people drink more in groups, sug­gesting that groups of drinkers should pick one member to stay sober-perhaps with some economi· incentives from the bar owner. 
In an interview before his re­search results were presented at the annual convention of the American Psychological Association in Toronto, Geller said his recommen­dations were based on observation of more than 300 drinkers in three bars last spring. 


Observers found that on average, bar patrons drank 35 ounces ofbeer per person when it came in· a pitcher, but only 15 ounces from a bottle and 12 ounces from a glass. 
The 120 men observed drinking from a pitcher drank an average of about 40 ounces apiece, while 43 women drank about 28 ounces. Both sexes drank about the same amount from a glass or bottle. 
"People don't want as much beer as they get in that pitcher," Geller said. But they figure it's cheaper and feel compelled to "clean the plate," he said. 


Macri's Deli Welcomes ND/SMC Class of '88 
Great Reasons To Stop in at Macri's Deli: 
Unique Sandwich Menu: Gyros Beefand Company Old Chicago Crescents plus 20 morel 
Soups, Salads, Appetizers, Desserts 
Wide Satellite Screen T.V. 
Beerand Wine Casual Atmosphere 
PLUS: 

FootbaU Catering (Tailgaters) 
3 foot or 6 foot Sandwiches Meat and Cheese Trays Special Boxed Lunches 
Mon-Thurs 11:30-10:00 Fri-Sat 11:30-11:00 
Opening Sundays after Labor Day 
r--------------------------------------------------~I 
I I Nachos orSpecial Nachos Grande
I 
I I Reg. $3.50 
I I $2.00 with this COUPON 
I 
L·-------------------------------------------------~ 
!
~ 
~ 
~ 
r 
, r ~ 
,r 
, 
,r 
! r ~ 
Squth Bend's Newest Night Club 
ND 
7465. Eddy 

Across from AVE. Farmer's Market 

IN ARMY NURSING YOU KEEP ADDING NEW SKILLS. 
It's important that you're treated with the dignity and respect accorded an Army officer. And it's important to work in a modern medical center, earn a top salary, and travel. But perhaps the most important aspect of 
. Army Nursing is the dedication to education. In Army Nursing you have the opportunity to attend profes­sional conferences, pursue advanced degrees and study a variety of nursing specialties. 
If you're a student working on you BSN or if you already have a BSN and are registered to practice in the United States or Puerto Rico, look into Army Nursing. Stop by or call us: 
SGT John Moore 
(815) 727-9120 CALL COLLECT 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
~--------~----~----------------­
The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 7 





THE NEW STUDENT ACTMTIES BOARD 
PRESENTS: 
WELCOME WEEK 
OPEN AIR CONCERT  BAND:  THE LAW  
Monday, August 27 9:00pm-Midnight  Thursday, August 5dro:a:OOpm  30  
North Quad  Fieldhouse Hall  
HYPNOTIST -JAMES MAPES  CHANCE-TO-DANCE  
Tuesday, August 28  Friday, August 31  
8:00pm  DJ-The Music King  
Engineering Aud.  9:00pm-Midnight  
Fieldhouse Mall  

OPEN AIR CONCERT Wednesday, August 29 DRIVING CONTEST 5:00pm-8:00pm August 31/September 1 Fr. Sorin's Statue All day 
ACC Parking Lot SHENANIGANS Wednesday, August 29 MOVIE -"Animal House" 5:00-B:OOpm Saturday, September 1 Fr. Sorin's Statue 7, 9, 11pm 
Engineering Auditorium HYPNOTIST SEMINAR Wednesday, August 29 WARREN DUNES TRIP 6:30pm (On Lake Michigan) Library Auditorium Sunday, September 2 
Leave Main Circle at !O:OOam 
STEPAN MALL 
Great deals & prices on items for your room: refrigerators, plants~ wall hangings, bookcases, carpet, etc. 
Wednesday, August 29 ~Hursday, August 30 10am-6pm Stepan Center 
N.D. CALENDAR OF EVENTS BOOK 
ON SALE at Stepan Mall, Bookstore and Freshman Orientation 
$3.50 (includes crazy photos, maps, listing of campus events, and important information!) 
Searching for fun things to do? Need programming ideas for your hall, club, or organization? The newly restructured Student Activities Board can be your solution! 
The Student Activities Board committees invite and encourage participation by the entire Notre Dame community in their many planned activities. 
1 
'1,

Movies, dances, AnTostal, Winter Festival, lectures, plays, trips, and much more are being planned just for you! 
The Student Businesses, Irish Gardens, Darby's, and the Record Store, are a great service to the ND student body. 
The ten committees are: 
Ideas & Issues Campus Entertainment Services Musical Entertainment Publicity Calendar Movies Personnel Cultural A'rts Special Events 
We invite and encourage you to stop by LaFortune Student Center and become involved on the committee of your choice. 
The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 8 
Rules 
continuedfrom page 1 
think the number would be changed although there was always the "possiblity for exceptions." 
The first draft of the alcohol 
directives also stated, "Liquor will 
not be allowed anywhere on campus 
except in licensed bars. Beer and 
wine only are permitted in the 
residence halls...." 
But the new regulations do not 
ban liquor. Said Goldrick, "Alcohol 
is alcohol is alcohol. The distinction 
has not been made in these 
regulations." 
Tyson explained, "I think it was 
the previous Student Affairs people 
who made it beer and wine only. 
The primary reason for the change 
in policy is if the University says that 
consumption in moderation is 
allowed then we allow the 
consumption of alcohol. I don't 
want to have policies that are 
meaningless, or not enforced." 
Bertino noted this was an issue 
that was decided in accordance with 
the views of the Campus Life 
Council. "Many of the rules were 
altered after the CLC gave their 
input. The CLC was very effective in 
many areas," he said. 
But the CLC couldn't save the 
bars. 
Bars in student's rooms have been 
eliminated with the implementation 
of the new policy. "Any structure 
which has by its appearance the 
function of serving alcohol is 
prohibited. Examples of such are 
structures with chairs, stools, or 
alcoholic advertisments. Common 
sense must prevail In that a bar is 
readily identifiable in our culture," 
says the policy. 
Goldrick commented, "I trust our 
hall staff enough to sit down with 
students and discuss whether a 
structure is a bar or not." He added, 
"The decision of the rector will be 
final in all cases." 

Also gone the way of the dinasour are drinking games. "Any type of drinking games, e.g. 'quarters' or the use of any instrument of alcohol abuse, e.g. 'beer bongs' is a violation of the principle of responsible drinking and is strictly prohibited." 
Goldrick assured that Student Affairs had no intention of raiding dorm rooms at the sound of tinkling quarters, but noted that drinking games "can be very dangerous biologically." 
Alcohol transported on campus must now be in closed containers and in suitable packaging, e.g. a bag or box. But Tyson explained, "The intention of this policy is that it is inappropriate and against the policy to transport open liquor on the campus. But the container it comes in is alright." 
The penalty for having a keg of beer in a dorm room has been raised from S I 00 to $1 50 by the new policy. Tyson said this is more to deter keg parties than anything else. "It's the sort of thing that a no parking ticket is more of a deterent than a SS parking ticket," he elaborated. 
"The alcohol policy is a reality in all ofour lives. We can fight about it for six months or we can go forward and look at ways of socializing without alcohol," said Tyson. 
He added he sees the Student Affairs office as playing the role of "facilitators and encouragers" who will work with the student body in finding alternatives to an alcohol­centered social life for the campus. 
Will the protests of last spring again shake the golden dome? 
"You can't tell what students are going to do," said Bertino. But he added, "In my opinion now, we really haven't got a fight." 
"I think we would be more or less wasting our time," he said. 
But Bertino is optistic about how students will adjust to the new regulations. "There's a lot of new administrators. We're going to see how everything goes. The upperclassmen may have to do more adjusting than others, and it might take a few years for the issue to be fully settled, but you've got to be optimistic." 
The protests last spring were not all for nothing, according to Bertino. "Ifthat wouldn't have happened, our voice wouldn't have been as strong as it was, he said." 
"I would say we got a lot taken out of the policy -there was a lot of compromising on both sides -and we both had to bend a lot. Right now we've got to make the best of what we've got." 
In Pasquerilla West, Resident Assistant Kathy Kemp echoed Bertino's optimism. "It's up to us RAs to take a positive attitude towards the new regulations. Perhaps we'll take more advantage ofwhat South Bend has to offer," she said. 
Julianne Jones, another RAin PW, agreed with her. "The feeling I got from the administration was that they were very enthusiastic about planning a lot and offering students alternatives," she said. 
Kemp said she wasn't expecting to see a repeat of the last spring's protests against the new policy. "I think there will be testing but as far as protesting I think it will cool down a little bit." 
On the other side of campus, the feeling among RAs was similar. Mark Storen, a RA in Dillon hall, said, 

"Attached to the alcohol policy was a list of alternatives. Of course, people are going to have to be creative. I think Notre Dame students are very creative. I don't 
Associated Press

foresee a lot ofproblems." 
. Storen said he agreed with the WASHINGTON-Prestde~tReagan essence of the policy and the announced ~oday he has dtrected resulting regulations. "I think the NASA to begm a search f~r.a school policies were good _ especiallyabout teacher t~ be the. first cttlzen pas­public drunkeness because that's senger to JOUrney mto space aboard 
how it is in the real world," he said. the space shuttle. "The directives 1 think are good. In . a speech prepared .f~r a They had to eliminate tailgaters to meeung of teachers ~nd admmtstra­
be consistent," he added. tors from outstand111g secondary 

Prices Good Thru September 1, 1984 
Prices Good at South Bend Ave. Store ONLY
GLAD 
YOU'RE BACK!! 
WINE
!, 
SunCounw

, ~ 
Wine Cooler 

, 

4PK 

Martini & Rossi
f 
r 
Asti Spumante
750ML 


' ~ 
Carlo Rossi $4'' 
4L 
California 
$2''
Wine Cooler 
4PK 

BEER Miller 
LP 

Miller Lite 
LP200 


Pabst Reg. or Light

LP 

Hamms Reg or Light 

LP 

QUARTS 
Old Milwaukee $749 $999
Budweiser 
KEGS 
Budweiser 
$3199 

1/2 BBL 
Michelob 
$3699 

112 BBL 
schools across the country, Reagan 
settled a question that has made the rounds among space buffs for years: who will be the first outsider in space? 
Shuttle flights presently are restricted to astronauts, mission specialists and payload specialists, all with specific tasks to perform on board the spacecraft. 
LIQUOR 

Popov Vodka 
1.75L 

BacardiRum 
1.75 L 

Glenmore Gin 
1.75 L 

Beam Blend 
1.75L 

J & B Scotch 
1.75L 

Dewars Scotch 
750ML 

Kahlua 
$6'' $1099 
$7'' 
$8'' $1699 
$8'' 
$8'' 

The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 9 
Tyson 
continued from page 1 
good." He said he would have gone outside to find such people If he did not find suitable: people within the University. 
In June, Tyson announced three appointments to the office of stu­dent affairs. John Goldrick, formerly the University admissions director, was named associate vice president for residence life. Sister Jean Lenz, formerly Farley Hall's rectress, was appointed assistant vice president 
for student affairs. And Father Francis Cafarelli, formerly the direc­tor of student accounts, was named assistant vice president for student services. 
These three replaced James Roemer, dean ofstudents; Father Mi­chael Heppen, director of housing; and Father Gregory Green, vice president for student affairs, in the senior positions in the office. 
Father William Beauchamp, exec­utive assistant to the president and executive vice president, said he did not think that Roemer, Heppen or Green had been offered positions in Tyson's restructured student affairs office. Tyson supported this by saying that his three first choices ac­cepted the positions. 
Although Roemer, Heppen and Green were replaced in the student affairs office, .Tyson and the three new assistant vice presidents in­sisted that they were not "dismissed." When asked about the administrative shake-up in the stu­dent affairs office, Goldrick said he did not think "shake-up" was the ap­propriate word. 
Tyson explained that the adminis­

trators were not dismissed because 
all three are still employed by the 
University. Roemer has been ap­
pointed director ofcommunity rela­
tions and special programs. Heppen 
has assumed Caffarelli's post as 
director of student accounts. Green 
has been named director ofpastoral 
services and associate rector of Sa­
cred Heart. 
When Tyson announced his ap­

pointments In June the South Bend 
Tribune hinted In a news article that 
the shake-up was triggered by the 
new alcohol policy and the student response to the policy. "The changes also follow a tumulous few months on campus as the university administrators unveiled a new alco­hol policy .... The release of the new rules and proposed directives from Roemer prompted . a student protest," the article stated. 
Joni Neal, director of student ac­tivities, said in July that she had heard talk that Roemer's dismissal was linked to his proposed alcohol directives but that she had not heard It from Tyson. Several weeks later Neal said that the alcohol directives had nothing to do with any of the dismissals. 
Tyson maintains he "did the structure first," and then looked to fill the offices. 
Cafarelli said he thought it was Van Wolvlear's resignation that spurred the changes. "The situation presented itself to carry out a new vision." 
Tyson's appointment and restruc­turing of the office arroused varied responses from faculty and adminis­trators. Although some faculty mem­bers refused to comment because of a lack ofinformation about the situa­tion, a few expressed disapproval. 
"Senseless," is how Peri Arnold, 
associate professor of government 
and international studies, described 
the changes. "The dean of students 
looked to be doing a good job. This 
university is not a place that is very 
open. It is a place of some secrecy 
and hierarchy. (The restructuring) 
is a mystery to me." 
Professor Thomas Swartz of the 
economics department said, "I don't 
think they could possibly find a per­
son who could do a better job than 
Jim Roemer. I'm disappointed." 
Swartz described Roemer as a "man 
matched with his job." 
Offering his praise of Tyson's ap­
pointment, Green noted, "In my 
mind, Father Tyson is the replace­
ment. That's what he was trained 
for." He explained that Tyson was 
the man he ~'had been bucking for 
for years." 
Green also supported Tyson's 
changes. He said that when a-new 
person takes over an office, bringing 
In a new team is standard procedure. 
Neal was also receptive of Tyson 
and his new staff, "I get a real feel of 
SOberingAdvice·} cansavealife;,:cv) 
Think Before You Drink /~""
Before YOU Drive .:~· .­
excitement from that staff..." She backed up Green's explanation saying, "Tyson wanted a staff he could work with." She said the changes in personnel had to do with reorganization and a staff that was compatible with Tyson's philoso­phy. 
Although he was at the center of much of the discussion of the restructuring, R~emer deferred comment to a later date. 
He is now on a three month sab­
batical and will not start his new job 
until O.ct. 1. 
Heppen refused to comment. 
Coinciding with Van Wolvlear's resignation was the resigna.tion of Jim McDonnell, director of student activities. However, the South Bend Tribune reported that McDonnell had been "dismissed." 
According to McDonnell, he sub­mitted his resignation to Van Wolvlear on May 3, 1984 effective June 1985. During that time he would search for a new position while continuing to fulfill his duties as director of student activities. He said this delayed resignation would also allow the University time to find a replacement. 
McDonnell said Van Wolvlear ac­cepted his resignation. 
McDonnell said that a few weeks later he was asked to move up his resignation and offered up to six months severence pay. "I was told on Tuesday, May 29, that there was going to be a new vice president and 
Corby's 
continuedjrompage 1 
day it remains closed, the 
likelihood (of the bar never 
reopening) grows stronger." 
Although no one has been 
charged with the slaying of the 
bar owner, "Anyone we are 
dealing with in respect to this in­
vestigation has to be a suspect," 
said Mabank. 
Rowley, 53, was shot and killed 
as he entered his Twyckenham 
Hills home, 2609 York Road, 
shortly before 12:30 a.m. Aug. 1. 
Police are keeping a tight lid 
on information concerning the 
investigation. Mabank did say 
that determining the exact times 
9f the events of that evening "is 
quite important to the investiga­
tion." 
According to reports after 
Rowley's death, Rowley had gone 
to dinner that evening with 
James Eichorst, an employee of 
Corby's, and another busines­
sman from the Five Points area 
whose identity has not been ·released. 
that person did not want me on that 
team," he said. 

"He (Tyson) asked the old vice 
president to let me know I would 
not be on that team," said McDon­
nell. 

Tyson said, "Dr. McDonnell might think that," but explained that Van Wolvlear handled McDonnell's departure. Van Wolvlear could not be reached for comment. 
According to Neal, formerly McDonnell's assistant and later his replacement as appointed by Tyson, McDonnell had announced his resig­nation on a Tuesday, and he was told to vacate his office by the end ofthe month, which turned out to be that Thursday. 
McDonnell said he assumed if he 
had not resigned he would have 
been fired. 

Neal said that maybe McDonnell would have been "asked to resign or reevaluate his role with the stu­dents." 
McDonnell explained that he resigned because of a disagreement he had with Tyson on the issue ofthe student center. The former director of student activities said, "This was the only time I let someone know I was upset," in his five years in the office. 
McDonnell said he felt he had been "the solitary voice" on the issue of a student center. Then, two or three years ago, according to McDonnell he oversaw a large study ofstudent centers. "It was a very im-
After dinner Rowley and the other businessman went to a bar in the Five Points area. Eichorst planned to stop at Rowley's house and meet the bar owner later, according to reports. 
Eichorst told police he was tied up and blindfolded in a bedroom by unknown assailants as he entered Rowley's house. Rowley came home shortly after midnight, apparently concerned when Eichorst had failed to meet him at the bar. 
Police believe Rowley was am­bushed as he entered the house. He was shot once in the chest and twice in the back ofthe head. The St. Joseph County Coroner's of­fice indicated that the official cause of death was severe inter­nal bleeding. 
The shooting was a "typical execution-style slaying," accor­ding toJames Hassig, a public in­formation officer for the South Bend Police Dept. "It appears the suspect or suspects laid in wait for some time for the victim to arrive home," said Hassig. No motive has been established for the murder, he said. 
After the murder, the assailants reportedly fled the scene in Eic­portant issue to me," he said. 
McDonnell then noted the arti­
cles The Observer published last 
spring reporting the planned reno­
vations for LaFortune. He said that 
within days a meeting was called 
with architects. McDonnell said that 
he was not invited. "I felt strongly I 
should have been included .... I let 
Tyson know it. I felt very hurt professionally. I didn't think there was a place for me at Notre Dame to make the contributions I could." 
Tyson confirmed that McDonnell had not been invited to that meeting. He said It was a meeting of the architects and the officers of the University because any renovation plans needed the approval of the of­ficers. 
McDonnell said that Van Wolvlear 
told him Tyson was upset with him. 
McDonnell said that for this reason 
he made an appointment to see 
Tyson. He said that Tyson cancelled 
that appointment but that he would 
reschedule it. He never did, accor­
ding to McDonnell. When asked 
about this cancelled appointment, 
Tyson said that it might be true. 
InJune, McDonnell called Tyson's office to reschedule their meeting, not to ask for his old job, McDonnell said, but "to bring about personal reconciliation. I just wanted to talk with the person and settle it per­sonally." 
McDonnell concluded, "Father Tyson has not spoken with me since April." 
horst's car. The car was later 
found at Big Bear Restaurant, 
1936 lincoln Way East, accor­
ding to Mabank. 
Eichorst told police that he 
managed to free himself after the 
assailants fled. Eichorst flagged 
down a squad car at the corner of 
Mishawaka Ave. and Twycken­
ham Drive and reported the 
shooting at approximately 12:29 
p.m., said Mabank. Eichorst could not be reached for comment. 
Rowley's estate is expected to be a subject of controversy be­tween his estranged wife, Rose Rowley, of Orland Park, Ill., and other survivors including his par­ents and his four children. Divorce proceedings between Rowley and his wife remained unsettled at the time ofhis death. A dispute over ownership of Corby's was one of the rea~ons the divorce was unsettled. 
Rowley's life was marked by le­
gal troubles. 
Last May Rowley was arrested and charged with disorderly con­duct after a police raid on Corby's. A number of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were arrested for underage 
drinking during that raid. 
A building contractor last fall filed a complaint with the Alco­hol Beverage Board stating Rowley owed him approximately J4,000 for remodeling work done In 1982. 
Several years ago Rowley was 
' found Innocent on two counts of fraud. He was also charged and found innocent on two counts of lying to a grand jury invesUgating the fraud charges. In 1973, Rowley was shot while walking on a Mishawaka street. The case wa.'> not solved. Rowley was born Dec. 28, 1930, in Ann Arbor, Mich. He lived in lllinois and received a degree from an Iowa college before moving to South Bend 27 years ago. 


(Formerly Nancy's Windy City) 
We've Gro\Vn Since Last Year 
We now have· Come In and Check Out an expanded lounge Our Improvements! with yet anotherT.V. 
for sports viewing 
* *New NewName Larger Lounge 
272-4935 *Same Great Food, featuring the BEST Stuffed Pizza in Town
Carding Strictly Enforced 



The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 10 
~ 
,. Ferraro wealth defended in South 
r 
~ 
and her husband have a net worth of

r The Associated Press Ms. Ferraro quipped: "one of the 
several million dollars. 

r 
non-believers." ,.\ r NEW YORK -Geraldine Ferraro 
That was too much for Baxley,r and her husband may be wealthier During the Alabama rally, Ms. Fer­who is obviously aiming to succeedr than Archie Bunker would have raro's congressional district in George Wallace in colorful rhetoric­r guessed, but one Democratic official Queens -which includes the mythi­

, 
not to mention in the Alabamasays that's no cause for comment cal home ofArchie and Edith Bunker 

~ governor's mansion in 1986. 
from Vice President George Bush, from the televison series "All in the r who was "born with a silver spoon Family" -was mentioned. ,r sofar back in his mouth you couldn't "The nominee of the other party 
get it out with a crowbar." Bush, son of a prominent and said, 'Well, that shows that they are r wealthy Connecticut clan, referred not really an Edith and Archie 
While Alabama Lt. Gov. Bill Bax­
r to that series about a working-class household,"' Baxley said in intro­
ley was reaching for new rhetorical
r family after Ms. Ferraro revealed she ducing Ms. Ferraro in Montgo~ery.
, 

heights in introducing the NewYork r congresswoman, Ms. Ferraro r received an enthusiastic reception r in Alabama, even when she ran right 
into the dangers of"running mate." 
In Montgomery, Ala., Democratic vice presidential nominee Ferraro pressed Walter F. Mondale's case and her own. But amid the glare of the television lights, her note cards
r 
were a little hard to read: 
~ "When Fritz and I were moving r along and he had chosen me as his mate, some people ... running mate
,.. 
' 
r " 
She stopped as the crowd
r 
chuckled.
r 
Then the New York congres­,r swoman picked up where she left off, talking about Democratic
r 
chances in the South.
r 
"Some of the so-called experts
r 
said, 'Will she campaign in the
r 
South?' Well ..." 
~ 
Hey Mate! 
IheOObserYer-needs you. The news department is accepting applications for the following positions: 
• 
Assistant News Editor 

• 
Sai~t Mary's Day Edit~or 


For more information , 
contact Dan, Sarah or Anne " 
at 239·5313. Applications ~~ 
are due Thursday a.t 5 p.m. 
~---~-----------,

l

Just then came a loud squawk
r 
from one ofthe exotic caged birds in ' 'ITIW[PJ®(il®ilii:®!f(il2
r 
the hotel lobby.
r 
IAnyone interested in Computer Type-I I setting for The Observer is invited to I
r Anderson will endorse Mondale attend a short organizational meeting I 
TheAssociated Press Reagan and former President Jimmy Mondale's staff and former Wiscon­
I this Wednesday, August 29. The I
Carter. sin Gov. Patrick). Lucey, who ran as WASHINGTON -John B. Ander­His performance qualified him for Anderson's vice presidential 
I meeting will be at held in The Observer 1 
son, who ran for president as an in­public financing ofa 1988 race ifhe nominee in 1980. dependent in 1980, has decided to met the qualifications for organizing I offices at 4:30p.m. Call Kevin at 239-J 
publicly endorse Democratic a third political party. Lucey was described by sources 
I ~313 if you can't attend or if you have 
presidential nominee Walter F. Earlier this year, Anderson an­as a principal figure in the efforts to 
Mond~e, according to sources. nounced he would not run again for encourage Anderson to formally en­\any questions.l'Jo experience necessary. 
The sources said negotiations are president this year, but would go dorse Mondale. under way with Anderson, under ahead with pulling together the Na­
~--------------·~ 
which a third political party he or­tional Unity Party, composed largely ganized would formally nominate ofsupporters from the 1980 race. Mondale and provide him with The sources, who spoke on condi­about $7.8 million in public funds. tion they not be identified, said An­
Anderson attracted more than 7 derson has been negotiating directly 
percent of the vote in the general with Mondale on the endorsement. 
election four years ago as an inde­In addition, they said there have 
running aginst Ronald been discussions 
Tile exeitiag Pilot ballpoiat. It's got everytlliq golag for it. Smoother writlag. Specially desigaed flager riiJIJiag for coatiaaal writiag comfort. Stalalesa steel polat. Taagstea carbide hall. Ptr­fectly balaaced. A cltoice of medlam or fiae jiOiats. Aad best of all•••yoa'll aever tllrow it oat. 
jastslip Ia a 39e refill ad yoa're ready to write apiL So aext thne ,_roltl scratdly 
tee-tmlpa~rus 
........get 
=~·­


-.,. 
Tuesday, August 27, 1984-page 13
Showcase 
The Freshmen's 
Comprehensive Guide to the Campus 
elevated bed too high. You might fall off used to take place once upon a time. But not having a bad dream about the Dome. anymore. This is one of those Big Bad Rules 
by Marc Ramirez 
W 
See the University sidewalks leading this that came out from under the Dome. So onlyfeatures staff writer way and that. Where do they go? They go this those older and more mature can drink and way and that. See all the nice people playing act like children while students must act all elcome to Notre Dame. Sec the beauti­Frisbee and tossing footballs on the lawns. grown up and not drink. Are you confused ful, distinguished buildings. ·lbese are How neat, your parents say. But when Mum too? old buildings. '!bey were designed and built and Dad go home, everyone has to get off the See the foreign men out working on the by people who didn't have the skills allowed grass. The grass is pretty. You might ruin it. lawns. Work, work, work. Aren't they by today's modern technology. See the other, No short cuts through the grass, says Notre friendly? In the winter they will try to kill generic buildings. ·1bcsc arc new buildings. Dame. Is this what the sidewalks are for? No, you. They will jump into funny trucks with Art·n't they pretty? the sidewalks are for going this way and that. big food trays on the front and zoom down 
Sec the building with the big gold helmet. Sec the funny three-story building in the the sidewalks without a care in the world. This is the Dome. You never know what's middle of the campus. This is the Lafortune Then it will be okay to walk on the grass, happt·ning under the Dome, but it is usually Student Center. Not funny, you say? For many because it will be all covered with snow. very important. Big Bad Rules come out from years there has been talk of renovating During the year these men will keep you on The scary building with the big gold under the Dome, and sometimes people get Lafortune and adding conveniences such as a your toes by cutting the grass outside your helmet on top.fired from their jobs. The Dome is a very barber shop, a patio terrace for outdoor window at eight in the morning. But it is all scary place. dining, and so on in order to make it just as in fun. Remember, they work for the Univer· place ofemployment. You should count the 
St·e the tall building with the picture on good as other student centers. Once again sity. number of times you see Father Hesburgh in the front of it. lbis is the Memorial Library. many of these changes were slated to take See all the upperclassmen waiting in line at person in the next four years, and compare Who is it in memory of? No one knows. place this summer. Lafortune has changed, registration. Wait, wait, wait. lbey have been that to the number of times you change your 'Jbcre are lots and lots of books In this all right. They had it painted. Now isn't that waiting a long time. See all the upperclas· major. You will be surprised. building. If you are smart you will be spend· funny? smen in line at course departments on See the sun shining over the campus all day ing lots and lots oftime here in the next few See the cute little squirrels playing on the campus. They will wait here even longer. long. Shine, shine, shine. Don't become too years. Maybe, even ifyou are not smart you grass. Play, play, play. Aren't they adorable? You will have to do this too next year. You chummy with Mr. Sun, though, because he is will be spending lots and lots of time here in See them chase each other around the trees. will not enjoy it. Especially when you have going to go away soon and he will not come the next few years. Chase, chase, chase. Don't you just want to been waiting in line for longer than it takes to back for a long time. Mr. Sun is not stupid. He 
See the magnificent building sitting on the pick them up and cuddle them? No, you want watch "The A-Team" and just as you reach goes far away when rain and snow come to South Quad. Don't let it fool you. lbis is the to pick them up and strangle them. Why? the doorway the secretary lock!; the door town. When will he be back? Can you say South Dining Hall. Many of you will come in Because they get to play on the grass and you because it is time for lunch. "April?" here to eat. Many of you wlll just come in. By don't. You might tear up the grass. Squirrels See Father Theodore Hesburgh walking See the other freshmen at the freshmen the time you arc a senior you may not come ·will only leave their droppings on it. around campus. You don't see Father l-Ies­mixer. They are lost too. Like you, they in at all. But you will always remember it. See the old stadium sitting all alone in the burgh? That is because Father Hesburgh is would be helpless in the dark. See the fresh­·tbe food service has won awards for its parking lot. This is where the Notre Dame never here. Father Hesburgh is the president man girl. She sees you too. Talk to her. See, creative ideas. Did you ever taste a creative football team plays. Famous men like Knute of the University, which means he is a very she is not as airheaded as you first thought. idea? Rockne and George Gipp once played here. busy human being. Unlike other busy human She thinks the same thing about you. Maybe 
Sec the helpful seniors guiding you into See the parking lot, where student tailgaters beings, Father Hesburgh does not work at his there is hope. 

your room. 'Ibese are your resident assis· tants. You can call them RAs to be chummy. They will he your friends throughout the year, and help you with your homework and so on. Somt·times they will even do favors for you. But don't get your hopes up too high. Indiana is a "21" state. 
Sec your room In one of the many dor· mitorics. You will live here for a whole year. Not a.~ big as your room back home, is it? No longer can you look out into the back yard and sec little Spotty frolicking about. However. with a littk ingenuity you can make your room a plca.~ant place to live. But don't paint it in wild colors. You will have to pay vt·ry large amounts of money. And don't abuse your telt·phone. Your phone Is University-owned, state-of-the-art equip· mt·nt. And most important, don't build your 


SALE '•
• 
Plushes • Saxonies • Sculptures • Prints 

• 
Traceries • Foam-Bq.cks • Solids • Tweeds 


Save 40o/o to 70°/o Off Original Roll Prices 
Special Group A 

from 
SIZES 12'x6' 

3599
to 12'x9' 

Special Group B ···• from 
SIZES 12'x9' 

5999 
to 12'x15' 


Sports Briefs 
Ray Meyer,retiring DePaul basketball coach and captain of the 1937 and '38 Notre Dame basketball teams, will come back to Notre Dame to receive the 1984 Harvey G. Foster Award ofthe Uni­versity's Alumni Association. The award, which will be given to Meyer at halftime of the Notre Dame-Colorado football game on September 22, honors a former student involved in athletic activities during his or her academic career who has since distinguished him­self or herself through civic activities or University achievements. The Foster Award is named for a 1939 Notre Dame graduate and former sports leader who had a distinguished career in the F.B.I. before becoming vice president ofAmerican Airlines. Foster served as president of the Alumni Association, and was president of the Monogram Club and a member of the University's Athletic Endow­ment Fund committee at the time ofhis death in 1981. -The Observer 
Prospective baseball players, there will be an 
important organizational meeting for all those who would like to try out for the Notre Dame baseball team tomorrow in the ACC Football Auditorium at 5:30p.m. Please bring a pen orpencil to the meeting.­
The Observer 

The Notre Dame Water Polo Club wm also 
have an organizational meeting for anyone interested. New mem­bers are encouraged to attend. The meeting will be at 10 p.m. Sun­day, September 2. Anyone interested but unable to attend should call Mike at 14 71. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rowing Clubwill be having 
an organizational meetingtomorrow at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. All returning members should attend. New members are welcome. For more information, call Paul at 4115. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Women's Soccer club 
will hold open practice today and Thursday at 4:30p.m. and tomor­row and Friday at 4 p.m. on the Stepan Fields. All are welcome. For more information, call Karen Moritz at 1293. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Women's Golf Club 
will have an organizational meeting today at 4:30p.m. in Corby Hall. Anyone interested is invited to attend. -The Observer 
Attention Freshmen! 
Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 14 
Takes blame for violations 
Gators' Pell resigns under pressure 
AssoclatedPress terday that the 43-year-old coach university and Coach Pell have 
would retain his job at least until the agreed that he will use his best ef­
GAINESVILLE, Fla.-The University NCAA releases the results of its forts to continue for the remainder of Florida accepted the resignation probe. of the regular season," Criser said. of head football coach Charley Pel! "The exact effective date will be "However, it was deemed appropri­yesterday, but incoming school determined by the university," ate that this measure be taken and President Marshall Criser said the Criser said. the announcement made before the Southeastern Conference institution He said the NCAA is still conduct­first football game of the sea~>on is tentatively plans to honor Pell's re-ing the investigation and declined to played." quest to complete the 1984 season. speculate on when it might reach a The Gators, 32-25-2 under Pel! in 
Pell, whose program has been un-conclusion. In the meantime, he said the past five years, open the 1984 der NCAA investigation for the past university officials will keep abreast season against defending national 20 months, submitted his hand-of developments and take whatever champion Miami Saturday night in written resignation Sunday and in-action they deem necessary "at the Tampa. formed his players of his decision appropriate time." Pel!, who didn't attend the news later that night. "To mitigate damage to the stu-conference, told Criser his decision Criser told a news conference yes-dent athletes in the program, the was "irrevocable." 
Date set for Holmes-Coetzee fight 
Associated Press  by Don King and Steve Wynn, will  nounced  that  he  and  King,  with  
reportedly be worth $5 million to  whom he has had public battles over  
ATLANTA  - The  long-awaited·  Holmes and 113 million to Coetzee,  the  promotion  of his  fights,  had  
heavyweight fight between Interna­ Cable News Network reported yes­ signed an agreement for a fight with  
tional Boxing Federation champion  terday.  Coetzee in either September or Oc­ 
Larry Holmes and World Boxing As­ The meeting of Holmes and Coet­ tober.  
sociation champion Gerrie Coetzee  zee has been scheduled before but  
will be Nov. 16 at the Mack Athletic  problems always arose to stall the  Coetzee, a South African who lives  
Center in Las Vegas, a television net­ confrontation.  in Huntington Beach, Calif., has not  
work said yesterday.  The original date of the fight was  fought since he won the WBA title  
Although no firm dollar figure was  June 8 in Las Vegas, but that fell  on  a  lOth-round knockout of Mi­ 
released, the bout, to be promoted  through. On June 18, Holmes  an­ chael Dokes last Sept. 23.  

decided, though, that his fencing nipped by the fraction ofa second by could not improve in the United former world-record holder Sydney States and returned to his native Maree. Only the top three finishers Sweden. qualified for the Games. Ironically, 
Another former Notre Dame ath­
Summer 
continuedfrom page 24 
lete just missed in his attempt to Maree injured himself in the raceOther former Notre Dame players qualify for the United States team. and had to drop out ofthe Olympics
in the news were 1982 graduate Chuck Aragon, a 1981 graduate, just before the preliminary heats.
john Krimm who was cut by the 
finished fourth in the I "iOO-meter Since then, Aragon has been runningNew Orleans Saints, and tight end Dave Casper who rejoined his old run in the Olympic Trials after being very well in Europe. 
team, the Raiders, for what may be his final NFL season. 
•Even the Olympics had a bit of a Notre Dame flavor this summer as two former Notre Dame athletes won medals and another Notre Dame personality was visible during the television coverage. Basketball coach Digger Phelps was the most obvious of the three, offering color commentary for ABC during the men's basketball competition in which the United States won the gold medal. 
Less obvious were gold medal winner Joe Kleine and silver medal winner Bjorn Vaggo, neither of 

There will be an organizational meeting for all freshmen in­whom graduated from Notre Dame. terested in writing sports tor The Observer this Thursday at Kleine played basketball for Phelps during his freshman year before
8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Whether you are in­
transferring to Arkansas where he
terested in journalism or just want to get involved in the 
has one year of eligibility remaining. 
athletic department, sportswriting could prove to be a 
Vaggo fenced for Mike DeCicco's rewarding experience. All interested students, both at Notre Irish in 1978, winning the NCAA Dame and Saint Mary's, are welcome to attend. epee title and helping Notre Dame to the national championship. He 

Photographers! 
For more information, call Pete Laches at The Observer, 239-5303, or inquire at the office, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center. 
The Obsen•er :'llotrt" Damt" oltkc:. loc:att"d on the: third floor of Lafortune: Stude: Ill Ct"ntt"r. acc:c:pts dassific:d advc:rtising from<) a.m. until -1 p.m.. Monday through friday. The Ohsert•er Saint Mary"s office:. locatl·d on the: third floor of llaggar Collc:gt" Ct"ntc:r. a<:c:c:pts classifit"ds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 5 p.m.. Mon· day though friday. lkadlint" li>r ncxt·day dassitkds is 5 p.m. All dassific:ds must he: prt"paid. either in pc:rson or hy mail. Chargl· is I 0 c:c:nts pl·r fin· charac:·
Classifieds 
tt"rs erda 
I NOTICES 
Here lies the Notre Dame student of yes­terday. now extinct. It you think of it. have a Coke for him. 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
Are you In need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
IN "84-85 there WlH be no parties but there wiU be THE BADLANDS 
END 
THE BADLANDS The place to be. 
New8 o.p.rt!Mnt: Copy Editors and 114­sistant News Editors. please call Dan or Sareh so they c.n orga,;ze this year"s schedule. Thanlal. 
•••••:•;•:::.::;:•::••,.•:·;~•::··~_".";:_';.''".''';'';.'':,'';,:'''.:.''!,''!. ,.. ­

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: good insight on alcohol use at Notre Dame. It found please return to 301 Administration Building. Ask for Ted. 
found sunglasses monday-pat 2IT-6464 
LOST WALLET WITH MY MONEY AND ID"s --NEED DESPERATELY CALL PAT 277-6464 REWARD!!!! 
FOR RENT 
Student Housing. Rated Superior. Clean. High security. smoke alarms. laundry. utilities. $110/mo. NE side. 291-1405 
HOUSE FOR RENT; 4-5 BDRM, WALKING DISTANCE TO NO. BATH AND HALF EXCEPTIONALLY CLEAN. LG LIVING AM/KITCHEN. $93.75 PER STUDENT PER MO PLUS UTILITIES. PH 287-7178 ENAD 
Nonsmok"n STUDENT TO SHARE APT: $234/M. inc. heat AJC, util. fireplc., lal<evw.. pool. tenNS. sauna. 3 Mi.lrom N.D. 256-6676 Eve·s 
., '..!"ti'U''.I..''I.r'OO""''''''''.O.••ooooo•-~-·•••••••""''''''' 
...............~?..~..~-~-~-~............!. 
2 NO-Purdue tix Sept. 8, "84. Call 233­2163 or 234-5778. 
1980 AUDI 4000-EXCELLENT SHAPE. GOING CHEAP. 232-0265 
1976 VW RABBITT For Sale, Must Sell Good Condifion.895.00 or Best Offer. 684-4621 in Niles. evenings. 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI GAME!!!!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 2IT-2581 OR239-7471. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WANTED 
SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) 
1~ ....?=
........=.~-~=-~·s=....~----~--~~---J·········· Pandon~"a welcomes back students. We can help you with all your school needs. Textbooks at 25 percent off. paperbacks. reference materials, posters for your room. We"re at 937 South Bend Avenue. Stop in and save big. 
WELCOME BACK SKIDDERS!!!! Get ready to give ·em hell! BEER! (can we print that?). Hey mom I wanttogohome. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
TOO FAST TO LIVE ... TOO GROSS TO DIE. 
.............................:.........................~ ........ 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL-NOTRE DAME"S FAVORITE PASTIME. 
Shots -Yau may have the ""Flash... but do you have the ""Spunk?"" 
Welcome Dan Schlehuber! Get psyched!! Thanks lor sticking 'around. Mom (Schlehuber) It was great having you! 
Win Twins 
"'"'""""""""'"0"1-"'·' "•'"~'-~1.·.• ~'".'f'.s:·~· "U'.L'!, . 

ATIENTION ALL RETURNING OBSERVER PHOTOGRAPHERS. PLEASE CONTACT THE OFFICE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. WE NEED TO KNOW YOU ARE STILL OUT THERE. THERE WILL BE A MEETING THIS THURSDAY AT 7:30 IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE FOR ALL RE­TURNING PHOTOGRAPHERS. APPLI· CATIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR NEW PHOTOGRAPHERS IN THE OFFICE. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL PETE AT 2453. 
Marc needs ride to DETROIT on Friday-­please call4141 
HEY OBSERVER COPY EDITORSIII Please contact Dan or Sarah so that we can set up a schedule for this year. Don"t be shy, we"re anticipating a fun-filled. action-packed year. So call us now. You won"! want to miss a minute more. 
Typists and Day Editors: · 
How was your summer? II I haven"! talked to you yet, give me a call at 1479 and let me know. At the same time. I can make sure everything"& O.K. with your schedule, Thanx. 
Tom Mowle 
• !"~"','"."":'.''•"'""''"".!''1"'"" •· , •• ._.,.,.,, ..., ..._.. 
IT"$ GEORGE VANKULA"S 21st B-DAY DRINK-UP 
LET IT BE KNOWN: On Aug. 25. 1984. on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. Greg Sendi said '"I love this place."" In the presence of two witnesses too. 
My second Summar Under the Dome was even better than the first. Thanks to all concerned. including the ducks. Chicago anyone? 
Sareh: I told you It was going to be fun. Now that you appreciate the place too. we can start planning lor next summer on the Hew Buffalo nmea. (The beach beat. of course.) Now II all these people would just get out of our park... 
BASSIST NEEDED FOR GARAGE BAND; MARXIST BACKGROUND HELPFUL. DAVE3155 
And we sit and drink our coffee. Couched in our indifference 

-Simon •nd Glll"lunkal 
.............!"'!"!."':.· .. ':.""::'".::''!":O":O:-:":":."':"t' ... 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------~-~-­
~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t____~------------Th-es-da-y,_Au_~_st-28_,1_98_4__p_ag-el-1 
TAP 
TAP 


Flags, God and George Washington 
Ronald Reagan tackled the religious issue at Declaration of Independence President an ecumenical breakfast on the last day of the Reagan refer.red. convention. He was making partisan hay The president offers us the tired examples of simply by raising the matter here. And he things meant to disprove that our early predictably left it in a muddle. founders wanted to "get rid of religion" (as if 
Reagan contrasted America with France, that were ever an issue). There were military 
which in 1789 "erected a government that chaplains, though Madison opposed this, and Washington did not want any appointed at the federal level. 
Washington, for that matter, never once
Gary Wills 
used the name ofJesus. The passage about the uses of religious belief that Reagan quotes inOutrider the Farewell Address put that belief on a par, for utility, with maintaining the nation's eco­nomic credit. Washington actually toned was intended to be purely secular," as if that down the reference to religion penned for were some heinous Innovation. him on that occasion by Alexander Hamilton. It was an innovation, all right, but it was This does not mean that these men were ours. We did it in 1788, when the Constitution opposed to religion, though that is the way the was ratified. Many of those who debated the president interprets the actions of their des­
ratification, state by state, objected to the lack cendants today. It does mean that early of a religious test for holding office, and to the Americans were quite serious about creating a lack ofprescribed religious services. That had secular state, without being opposed to a reli­never happened before in history. It is one of gious society. our proudest achievements as a nation. It is The so·called conservatives are normally absurd ofthe president to foist it on others as a adamant on separating "the government" disgrace. from the rest of life, especially business. You 
Reagan points out that Thomas Jefferson would think their minds could stretch this dis­
referred to God in the Declaration oflndepen­tinction to cover the case supplied by the dence, to "the laws of nature and of nature's Constitution. But I guess that is the real expla­God." So did the French deists from whom nation of the problem. For most of the people Reagan derives a reign of blood. No one here, religion is something like the flag, to be hdkved more in divine providence than waved on all occasions, by as many people as Robespierre. France did not get rid of all reli­possible, as an instrument of intimidation and gious practices and language in 1789, any division ("We were waving the flag when more than we had in the preceeding year. The others were burning it"). French were more ferocious against Catholics But these people really do believe in the 
because Catholicism had been the established separation ofstate from religion. You find that church before the French Revolution. out the minute the government tries to regu­late any business activity. Hands off our reli­
'Ihe American founders were anti-Catholic, gion, their actions say. Their real church is the too, and ferocious against the establishment of Market. that religion in Canada -which is cited as one of the causes of the Revolution in the very (C) 1984 Univeral Press Syndicate 
A new party sun 
and moon? 
There is one illusion the conventions have burst into flame, like the Burning Bush. He did dissipated, that the two are Tweedle Dum and of course finally, to the delight of the Tweedle Dee. True, they both employ a responsive delegates. dreadful similar rhetoric, that of being a party But while the bulk ofhis speech was conser· of the future, not the past; of the people, not vative it was aimed at the conservative in· 
the interest groups; of opportunity and gredient outside the Hall. The growth of that growth, not stagnation and closure. element, often mixed with moderate and But beyond rhetoric there is a Great Divide liberal elements, is what has been happening between them. As the tumult of the conven-in the last 20 years. Along with technological change it accounts for Richard Nixon's "silent majority" and Jerry Falwell's "moral majority," and for the transformation of the
Max Lerner 
Democratic South and Southwest into a func· tionally voting Republican Sunbelt. 
The Lerner column All the Republican factions want to lure the potential non-Republican Reagan supporters into the Party. But they split roughly along 
tions dies and the captains and kings depart two major strategies. the true compaign battle lines emerge. One is to "broaden the base" and get the 
Some questions are in order. How much ofa more moderate independents into the Party. Great Divide is it in actuality, not just among Given his anti-abortion and anti-ERA and the delegates but the people? What is the true school prayer stands, these voters are likely to nature of the differences, in the personalities find Reagan too conservative and too much and character of the party leaders, in the prisoner of the New Right. priorities, symbols, ideas, philosophies, psyc­The other strategy is to deepen the conser­hologies, theologies, world views? vatism of the Party by giving it a God-family­
My own answer is that the Divide is greater career-country dimension that will attract the 
than most observers thought a year ago. It has voters who respond to such symbols: the fun­been in the making since 1964 when Barry damentalist, the nationalist, those seeking a Goldwater, resurrected at Dallas, strong and confident "leader," those oriented "extremism" and all, made his clumsy and toward business and technology, and espe· premature sortie into deep conservatism; the dally the young, just out of school, starting year also when Ronald Reagan made "the their lives, looking for careers in an upward· Speech" which catapulted him into his career mobile, expanding, "opportunity economy." as "citizen-politician." Reagan could of course be spoiled by suc­
I add a second proposition, that the changes cess, take too high risks of arousing the fears have not necessarily been contained within always there just below the surface, fears of the two Parties, which have become frail ves· war and religious intolerance, and the break­sels at best under the impact of the informa­ing of the wall of separation between church tion revolutions. There are far more and state. He could lose. conservatives and independents among Right now the odds are against his losing. Democrats than San Francisco showed. Not because of the polls, which are always 
Let's call this the "conservative ingredient" volatile, but because of the long and slow un­of the long-range trend. That was exactly why dertow toward the Right. In Samuel Lubell's most of Reagan's carefully planned accep­phrase, cropping up again, the voters may be tance speech at Dallas was deliberately low bringing a "new sun and new moon" Into key until the last 1S minutes or so, with all the inter-party politics. faithful waiting patiently for their prophet to (C) 1984 Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

The Observer-.-Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 I (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . . .. Dave Taiclet Managing Editor . . . . . . Mark Worscheh Controller . . ..... Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. . . Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager . . ..... Jeanie Poole UniverSity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager .......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the pol1c1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a major~ty of the Editorial Board. Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor............ Michael Sullivan present the v1ews of their authors Column space IS available to all members of the Viewpoint Ed1tor . . . ... Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966

commun1ty. and the free expressiOn of varying opinions on campus, through letters. Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy IS encouraged. Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 


r 
r 
,. 
r 
r 
r 
, ~ 
, 
,~ 
,
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 

-------~~~-~--~-~-------------, 
The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1984-page 12 



~a. 

E'ACI-I 

DG MUSIKFEST ·PHILIPS CLASSETTE •LONDON TREASURY LPs too! LPs too! 
Georgs Winston $ 
DECEMBER Z 99
0 EAc.~ AT4PRICE '/JI4T'S R/Ciff! 
l LP or CRSSin¥ 
, ;I 

I e~ne.E 
CA-rAt.O&-t 
tW .SALt. I 
ou~ ENTI~E SE~C.TitW 0~ ALBUMS liND CRSS£7TES &I TilE WINDJIIJM HILL LABf.L IN~IdJ>IdJ IN 71/I.S .SALG. 

HEARANDNOW 
Gramavision Records and Tapes 
Gramav1s1on records are hand pressed on pure KC-600 v1nyl. Gramav1S1on casseltes are recorded on Chrom1um D1ox•de CrOJ B.A.S.F tape. 
' 

SPOTLIGHTING WORLD-CLASS GUITARISTS! 
TRIO 
CATHERINE ESCOUDE LOCKWOOD 


HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

---~--------------------~ 
,
The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 1 5 
OUR tES 'E l£A1! SO IS OUR Sll£CTION... 
STEVIE RAY VAUGHAN 
BOX OF FROGS 

LOU REED 
including: 

NEWSENSATIONS
AND DOUBLE TROUBLE 
Back Where I Started/Harder 
1\No Steps Ahead/Poor Boy

COULDN'T STAND THE WEATHER 
Just A Boy Again
including: 
Cold ShollVoodoo Chole (Siighl Return) Tin Pan Alley/Honey Bee 

PRINCE AND THE REVOLUTION Purple Rain -Music From The Movie · 
ALliN 
PETER WOLF Qilll 
LIGHTS OUT 
INCLUDING LIGHTS OUT, OOH·OIOOLEY-BOP•. 
MARS NEEDS WOMEN 
• 
SCANDAL 

FEATURING PATrY SMVTH 
WARRIOR 
SAMMY HAGAR 
VOA 


QUIET RIOT 
COIIIDITIOI CRITICAL 
including: Mama Weer All Crazee Now Slomp Your Hands. Clap Your Feet Party All . Of The Times 
JOHN WAITE 
NO BRAKES 
INCLOOING MISSING YOU 

3FJTS/((JT IN 51/:JCK; 
IHIIIMI 
• 
WE WILL Bt' GUll> -1"ll oeJ:JEJt-IT"
• l'fJt! "oa ! 
-
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
,...------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, August 28,1984-page 16 
Who's who in the athletic departments 
~--~ ----~­
Rev. Edmund P.Joyce, C.S.C.­193 7 Notre Dame graduate, Fr. Joyce was named executive vice president of the University in 1952, three years after his ordination. As chairman ofthe faculty board in con­trol of athletics, Joyce has always maintained, "First things come first, and the first thing for us are academics. I tell every squad of ath­letes that when the students return to campus each fall." In his 32 years at Notre Dame, Joyce has watched as Notre Dame has had one of the na­tion's most successful records in in­tercollegiate athletics, while at the same time maintaining one of the highest graduation rates among its athletes. 
Gene Corrigan -Since succeed­ing the legendary Moose Krause as athletic director in 1981, Corrigan has made his presence felt, both at Notre Dame and on the national level. In addition to being a member of the NCAA Division I basketball committee, Corrigan has most recently been instrumental in the dealings of the College Football As­sociation(CFA)with both the NCAA and the television networks. Cor­rigan was a driving force in the or­ganization and planning of Notre Dame's first-ever athletic endow­ment fund, designed to increase op­

portunities for Notre Dame students at all levels ofcompetition. He is also credited with the introduction of two new varsity sports -lacrosse and women's swimming -in his first full year as athletic director. Before coming to Notre Dame, Corrigan served for nine years as director of athletic programs at the University 
ofVirginia. 
Brian Boulac -A former Notre Dame tight end, this 1963 graduate was named assistant athletic direc­tor last year following 13 seasons on the Irish football coaching staff. During that time, Boulac was recruiting coordinator for seven years as well as an administrative as­sistant to Dan Devine for two years, in addition to coaching the offensive and defensive lines, receivers and specialty teams over that span. Cur­rently, Boulac's job is to offer direct assistance to athletic director Gene Corrigan in a wide variety of areas. 

Coi.JohnStephens-This is Jack Stephens' 17th year in the Irish ad­ministration and his second year as director of special projects for Cor­rigan. He assumed the role after spending .seven years as associate athletic director and another eight as an assistant director. Despite holding his present job for only a short time, though, he has already made an impact, playing a major role in the formation of the North Star Conference -a conference in which several women's sports now com­pete. 
Roger Valdiserri -Valdiserri is entering his second year as associate athletic director after having served seven years as an assistant. However, he is best known for his work as director of the sports information department. A 1954 Notre Dame graduate, he served briefly as an ad­ministrative assistant to former foot­ball coach Terry Brennan. In 1966, after public relations stints with Mercedes-Benz and the Kansas City Chiefs, he returned to his alma mater to become sports information direc­tor and, ten years later, added assis­tant athletic director to his duties. Regarded as one of the best in his field, Valdiserri has earned 43 awards since 1976 from the College Sports Information Directors of America for his sports publications, many honored as the best in the na­tion. 
Joseph O'Brien-A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, O'Brien is in his second year as associate business manager after a seven-year stint as an assistant director. He also continues to manage the department's finances as athletic business manager. In 1955, O'Brien was named director of personnel functions at South Bend's second-largest employer ­Notre Dame. He has been here ever since, joining the athletic staff in 1976. He served as president of the College Athletic Business Managers Association in 1983 and was named business manager of the year in 1983 by CABMA. 
Mike Bobinski -Bobinski is the newcomer to the athletic depart­ment, having been named ticket manager and assistant business 
Rozier says he will be staying with Maulers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The agent for Mike Rozier told ABC radio Sunday that negotiations are still going on with the Houston Oilers of the National Football League despite the running back's statement that he would remain with the United States Foot­ball League's Pittsburgh Maulers. 
"We have had significant move­ment from Ladd ( Herzeg) and his people," Art Wilkinson said, refer­ring to the Oilers' general manager. "We have moved at a stage where concessions both sides made could turn into a document in a matter of 
hours  We  hope  we'll  know  
something tomorrow."  
Wilkinson  said  he  hoped  "to  

arrive at some ultimate arrangement to keep everyone happy." 
In an interview published in Satur­

-
day's Pittsburgh Press, Rozier said, ''I'm not worried about playing for the Oilers. I'm going to be playing for the Maulers next season." 
Rozier said he no longer needs ankle surgery, planned for the USFL off-season. 
Herzeg has said he would like to sign Rozier no later than today. 
Rozier signed a three-year, $3.1 million contract with the Maulers last winter but had a disappointing rookie season, playing with an injured ankle and an ineffective of­fensive line. 
Wilkinson said last week his diem was disappointed with himself and wanted to leavt; the USFL. The agent indicated he was skeptical about the future of the USFL because of its recent consolidation and the elimi­nation ofthe Miami franchise. 
COLOR CITY TV RENTALS 
SPECIAL BACK-TO-SCHOOL DISCOUNT 
20"0FF 
¥ $25.00/Month *$80.00/Semester ¥No Deposit ¥Free, Fast Delivery • Any size portable or console 
13398 McKinley Hwy 259-7661 
manager this past spring. He succeeds Steve Orsini who moved to the Dallas Cowboys organization. The 26-year-old Bobinski is a 1979 Notre Dame graduate and a former Irish baseball pitcher who returned to South Bend after two years in management audit and participant accounting with Disney World in Orlando, Fla. He earned two letters as a right-handed pitcher and was a four-year member of the Irish start­ing rotation. 
Dr. Tom Kelly-As director of non-varsity athletics, Kelly oversees an office that provides 19 intramural and 12 club sports, in addition to 30 recreational programs for both staff and students. Kelly, who .also was named an assistant athletic director in 1983, received his master's degree in physical education from Penn State and his master's and Ph. D in Educational Administration from Notre Dame. He has previously been NVA's assistant director for 11 years 
(until 1979 ), and was varsity baseball coach from 1976 through the 1980 season. 
John Heisler -Now in his third year as associate director of sports information at Notre Dame after four years as assistant director, the 29-year-old Heisler has had a large hand in the editing of a number of award-winning publications. Ten have been judged "Best in the Na­tion" by College Sports Information Directors ofAmerica panels, includ­ing two of the last three football guides. Previous to coming to Notre Dame, the South Bend native had been an assistant director at Mis­souri for one year, after serving as a student assistant at that school for four years and then graduating from Missouri's School of Journalism in late 1976. 
Tim Dffion -With degrees from Slippery Rock State College and Eas­tern Kentucky University, Dillon is entering his fourth season as assis­tant director of athletics at Saint Mary's. Dillon, who was assistant to Erin Lorenz last year, will assist Dr. Jo-Ann Nester who was named to succeed Lorenz this year. Dillon was a gymnastics coach at Eastern Ken­tucky before moving to Saint Mary's. 
Mike DeCicco -Better known as coach of the highly-successful Notre Dame fencing team, DeCicco doubles as academic advisor for all Notre Dame athletes. Responsibility for the University's high graduation rate among its athletes lies highly with DeCicco, whose task is to advise the more than 500 athletes at Notre Dame. A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, DeCicco taught for a number of years in the University's mechanical engineering department before giving it up to concentrate full-time on his job as academic ad­visor. His fencing teams have brought home an overall record of 431-40 since 1962 and were win­ners ofthe national championship in both 1977 and '78. 

HOUSE 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
Live OJ and Dancing 

) 10-3a.m. 
"TWO BARS" ID REQUIRED 

IS THIS ANY TIME TO THINK 
---------~ 
ABOUTARMY ROTC? 
It's the perfect time. You're a freshman, right? And you want to make college a real learning experience? Well. ROTC can add a valuable 
dimension to your college education. A dimension of leadership and manage­ment training. And that'll make your 
degree worth more. · ROTC offers scholarship and financial opportunities, too. Plus, the opportunity to graduate 
with a commission and begin your future as an officer. 
For more informa­tion, contact your Professor of Military Science. • 
Call: LTC Bob Skinner 
or CPT Anne Rieman 239-6264 

·---------~------------------------------------------------------------------­
----------~-~-­
~ ~~--~-~-----------~---­
The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984-page 17 
Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

E8al  
w  L  
Detron  86  45  
Toronto  74  56  
Baltimore  71  59  
Boston  68  62  
Cleveland  58  74  
Milwaukee  55  76  
WMI  
Minnesota  68  62  
KanaasCIIy  65  65  
Ca~ornla  63  67  
Chicago  61  68  
Oakland  60  72  
TeJCU  57  73  
Seattle  57  74  

YMt..-dtly'a RMulta Kanaaa City 7, Chicago 4 Cleveland 7, Milwaukee 1 Toronto 5, Minnesota 2 Baltimore 7. California 6, 10 Innings New York 8. Oakland 7 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eut  
Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  Ga  
.656  - Chicago  76  53  .569  
569  11.5  New York  71  56  .550  5  
.546  14.5  Philadelphia  70  56  .547  5.5  
.523  17.5  Montreal  64  65  .496  12  
.439  28.5  St. Louis  64  65  .496  12  
.420  31  Pittsburgh  56  74  .431  20.5  
WMI  
.523  - San Diego  76  54  .585  
.500  3  Houston  67  65  .508  10  
.485  5  Atlanta  65  65  .500  11  
.473  6.5  Los Angeles  63  68  .481  13.5  
.455  9  Cincinnati  54  76  .415  22  
.438  11  San Francisco  52  77  .403  23.5  
. 435  11.5  

YMI..-dtly'a RMulta San Francisco 5, Montreal4. 11 innnings New York 5, Los Angeles 4 Philadelphia 9. San Diego 1 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-Bernie Kosar passed for 329 yards and two first-half touchdowns and freshman Greg Cox kicked a pair offield goals, including the game-winning 25­yarder with 6:08 remaining, as defending national champion Miami stunned No. !-ranked Auburn 20-18 last night in the second annual Kick­off Classic. 
The victory in the first college football game of the season made a winner of Jimmy johnson in his debut as Miami's head coach and stretched the Hurricanes' winning streak to 12 games, longest In the na­tion . 
Although Miami won the 1983 na­tional championship by edging No. 1-ranked Nebraska 31-30 in the Or­ange Bowl, the Hurricanes were only No. 10 in the 1984 preseason Associated Press poll and were three-point underdogs against Auburn, which felt it should have won the national crown in 1983 but settled for a third-place finish. 
Miami carved out its latest 
Kosar dominates 
Miami shocks top-ranked Auburn 
shocker on Kosar's scoring passes of lwood at the Auburn 49 with 2:57 
17 and eight yards to flanker Stanley left to play. The game ended with Shakespeare in the first 20 minutes, Miami on the Auburn 2-yard line, fourth-quarter field goals of 45 and where Kosar, who completed 21 of 25 yards by Cox and a rebuilt but 38 passes, let the clock run out. fierce defense that held Bo jackson, Auburn scored Its only touch­Auburn's All-American halfback, to down on a 31-yard pass from Pat 
96 yards on 20 carries. Washington to wide receiver 
Meanwhile, Miami got 140 yards Clayton Beauford in the second per­on 21 rushes from sophomore iod. Redshirt freshman Robert Alonzo Highsmith and stymied McGinty kicked field goals of 42, 36 Auburn's last threat in a see-saw and 4 5 yards and the Tigers added a fourth quarter when defensive end safety after a high snap from center julio Cortes recovered a fumbled Bruce Fleming to punter Rick Tuten. 
pitchout by the losers' Brent Ful-

White Sox once again losers, this time to hot K.C. Royals 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Pat Sheridan and Darryl Motley slugged doubles in a wild seventh inning last night that carried the Kansas City Royals 7-4 over the skidding Chicago White Sox. 
The score was tied at 1-1 in the seventh when first baseman Greg Walker bobbled Buddy Biancalana's grounder. Biancalana went to third on Willie Wilson's single, then both scored on Sheridan's double. 
Motley hit an RBI double for a 4-1 
Kansas City lead and LaMarr Hoyt, 
10-15, was replaced by Dan Spillner 
after walking jorge Orta. 
Football 
continuedfrom page 24 
spelled Beuerlein, was 6-of-18 for 4 2 yards with Troy Wilson picking off one of his passes, and may be hard pressed to keep his backup spot. Besides Byrne, freshman Terry Andrysiak went three-for-four for 27 yards, but had one toss picked offby walk-on Mike Visovatti. Duke St. Pierre and Pat Pesavento each com­pleted his only attempt. 
jackson contributed three recep­tions for 100 yards, and Chris Smith had 33 yards in four carries. Walk-on Bill Young turned in a gutsy perfor­mance, carrying the ball on ten occa­sions. 
The kicking game, which was a concern for the Irish after losing two-year placekicker Mike johnston and four-year punter Blair Kiel, pleased Faust, as Carney and Pat Chura each connected on three field Motley scored the fifth run when 

• Frank White hit a hot smash behind third and Roy Smalley's throw to second sailed into right field. 
Orta went to third on the play and made it 6-1 when Splllner balked. The last run scored when Greg Pryor singled home White. 
Winner Bret Saberhagen, 7-9, scattered four hits through seventh innings. joe Beckwith relieved Saberhagen starting the eighth and gave up a two-run double to Carlton Fisk and RBI double to Walker before Dan Quisenberry came on for his 35th save. 

goal attempts. There were no punts in this scrimmage, but Mike Viracola, last season's t>ackup, has a firm hold on the starting job because ofhis consistent performances in fall camp. 
The coaches still anticipate Im­provement in all aspects of play, be­cause quality of play began to decrease toward the end of the scrimmage. 
"I think the kids came out feeling a little sorry for themselves," defen­sive coordinator Andy Christoff commented. "At the end offall camp you get to a point where you get tired of hitting each other and you get excited about hitting somebody else. 
"We have to be aggressive and dedicate our play towards aggres­siveness from here on." 
One thing is certain: the team 
Faust saw scrimmage on Saturday 
will have to improve before it meets 
the fired-up Boilermakers Septem­
ber 8. 

The -Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
e Responsible for all Saint Mary's sports coverage. 
esmall salary based on the number of articles submitted about Saint Mary's athletics. 
Assistant Sports Editor 
e Must have a thorough knowledge of all Notre Dame sports. 
e Responsible for sports briefs and for filing sports material. Paid position. 
Submit application and a personal statement to Mike Sullivan by 5 p.m. Friday. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
• 


--~--~-------~--~-----­
~-----~--------­
The Observer Tuesday, August 28,1984-page 18 
Faust's freshmen progressing well in learning experience 
By TIIERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
For 17 Notre Dame freshmen, the summer vacation ended more than two weeks ago when they checked into their temporary residences in Flanner Hall. Since then, the fresh­men football players have been learning the ways of Coach Gerry Faust and his assistants. 
The practice fields behind the ACC are now all too familiar to them. From the day of their arrival, there have been many meetings and twice-a-day practices to keep the newest members ofthe Irish football team busy. For the first weeks under the Golden Dome the learning process for them will occur on the football field, as well as in the class­
room. 
Faust and the other coaches are pleased with what they see in their fourth consecutive "harvest" ofhigh school football talent for Notre Dame.Althoughmuchoftheworkat first was purely instructional, the Irish mentor noted the progress of 
the freshmen. 
"We're really not disappointed with any of the freshmen," Faust says. "In fact, some of them have shown they will be able to contrib­

ute to ourprogram -both now and in last year. 
the future." 
One of the most impressive fresh­men on the practice field thus far has been Frank Starns. Starns, a running back from Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, seems quite at home in the fullback position and has been running some plays with the second offensive unit. Faust says Starns is "looking pretty good," which is what many people anticipated after Starns was named to many prep all-America lists and chosen as one ofthe top 100 incom­

1286S.llth 
684-3031

NOes 
Fri and Sat Live Music featuring Slaootfrorn tlae Hlp 
J'HE ARMY NURSING CHALLENGE 
You've worked hard getting your degree, hard enough that you'd like to continue the challenge. That's what Army Nursing offers. The challenge of professional practice, new study opportunities, continuing education and travel are all part of Army Nursing. And you'll have the respect and dignity accorded an officer in the United Sta~es Army. If you're working on your BSN or ir you already have a BSN and are registered to practice in the United States or Puerto Rico, talk to our Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
• 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
ing freshmen by bothFootball News and The Sporting News. 
Starns, at 6-4, 225 pounds, totalled nearly 2,400 yards rushing and scored 38 touchdowns in his junior and senior years in high school, in addition to being a standout at the linebacker position. 
"The last two weeks have been pretty intense," says Starns. "We've been doing a lot ofhitting, and it's all work when you're out on the field. 
"The upperclassmen have been pretty good to us freshmen. We are doing a lot oflearning, but I'm taking it one step at a time." 
Terry Andrysiak, a 6-1, 175-pound quarterback from Allen Park, Mich., also has been "progressing well," ac­cording to Faust, and he has seen ad­ditional action at the flanker position. Andrysiak is one of four freshman quarterbacks on the Irish roster and he also was named to The Sporting News list of the top 100 freshman prospects. 
Andrysiak completed 95 of 153 passes for 1,859 yards as a senior (an average of just under 20 yards per completion), and had only three in­terceptions while throwing for 21 touchdowns -all of which was enough for him to be rated the top quarterback in the state of Michigan 
Also vying for recognition at quar­terback are Tom Byrne and Duke St. Pierre. The freshmen may turn out to play a vital role at this position be­cause only two experienced quar­terbacks return. 
Byrne, a strong-armed 6-5, 216 pounds, has the physical tools needed to do well at this position, but needs some time to get familiar with the new system. 
St. Pierre has also been perform­ing well in practice. At 6-2, 195 
GRAND OPENING 

F.rtda•• ..a 
,,~....f3J 

pounds, he is known for his running ability, as well as passing. 
Cedric Figero is one of the fresh­men who has been looking good on defense. The 6-3, 235-pound linebacker was named on the prep all-America teams of Parade, Adidas/Scbolastic Coach, and USA Today after leading his Lafayette, La., high school in tackles during his last two years with a combined number of255. 
Tim Brown, a native of Dallas, Tex., has been working well at the split end position. The 6-0, 1 70­pound Brown was a multi-purpose player in high school, playing quar­terback, wingback and free safety, in addition to wide receiver. 
Brown also may be able to assist the Irish in punt and kickoff returns. Of his 25 career touchdowns, eight ofthem were scored on runbacks of 
LOCKE:R. 
We know home·s o 

hord ploce to leave. Dutlf you think it looks good. Just wait till you hove been around...after you·ve skied in the Alps. fished in New Zealand. hiked in Spain. and gone swimming in the Aegeon ... as a Navy 
officer. We really aren"t kidding when we soy. "'Join the Navy and 5.ee the world:· 

NAVY OFFICDtS GET R£SPONSIBIUTf FASt. 

NROTC SCHOLARSHIPS ANO COLLEGE PROGRAM BENEFITS WORTH UP TO $30,000 ARE AVAILABLE 10 QUALIFIED NOTRE DAM£, SAINT MARY'S, !USB, HOLY CROSS, AND BETHEL COLLEGE STUDENTS. 
CONTACT NROTC, fllTRE DAME -239-6442 OR THE SOUTH BEND NAVY RECRUITING OFFIC£ -233-3911 FOR OfTAJLS. 
Welcome Back Notre Dame& St. Mary's! 
Domino's 
Pizza 

Delivers™... 
30 Minutes 
or Free!™ 

Call us. 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery area. 
Coke available IJJIIJ!I 
inbottles. ~ 
punts or kickoffs. 

Reggie Ward may be part of the reason why Faust is saying that this year's squad is the fastest he has had yet. The 5-11, 1 7 5-pound speedster boasts times of 4A5 seconds in the 40-yard dash and 9.8 seconds in the I 00-yard dash. 
Adding Ward's speed to the re­ceiving corps may allow Notre Dame to experiment with deeper pass patterns than in the past. Ward hails from Long Beach Poly High School, the same school that produced two fine pro receivers ­Tony Hill and Gene Washington. 
One of the points of emphasis for the 1984 season will be the second­ary, and Brandy Wells represents the freshman class well at that position. Wells was named to the first-team on the USA Today prep all-star squad in the ddensive backfield, and has 
THE: TYPICAL NA\JV MAN'~ 
been playing on the second team in 
the free safety position. 
Wells, a 6-0, 188-pounder from 
Montclair, NJ., is also quick. He won 
the New jersey state championship 
in the 100-meter dash and was on 
the nationally-ranked indoor mile 
relay team that claimed the blue rib­
bon at the 1984 Vitalis Olympic Invi­
tational. 
Faust is anticipating getting his fourth season underway and is happy with what he has seen so far. "The kids are picking up things pretty nicely and working hard," he said. 
The freshmen and the upperclas­smen will soon have a chance to show what they have learned in "class" by performing well on the football field. 
All prices subject to 
applicable sales tax. 
Ask about our party · discounts. '§ 1983 Oommo's P•zza. Inc 
35313/ 1009·50 
~b7b7=~'lJ@'j) 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 


--------~~--~-------~------~--------------------­
r----------------­
The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 19 

The Rolfs Natatorium, still under construction, will Burke Memorial Golf Course, the Athlettc and be an O~ympic-sized pool and one of many athletic Convocation Center, and the Angela Athletic facility. 

facilities on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Story at right. campuses available to students. Among others are the 
. f%t-----~ SatntMary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· IN DIANA 
Shaheen Bookstore 
M, T, Th, F 8:30a.m.-4:30p.m. Wednesday 8:30a.m.-6:00p.m. -except first week of classes Saturday 9:00a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Your full-service college store. 
N.Y. Times subscriptions • best sellers • candy gifts • t-shlrts • magazines and much morel We look forward to seeing you. 
Shaheen Bookstore 
10% OFF ANY BACKPACK IN STOCK expires 9·29-84 

Mon. 8:30-8:30 Tues. 8:30-6:00 Weds. 8:30-6:00 Thurs. 8:30-8:30 Fri. 8:30-8:30 Sat. 8:30-5:30 Sun. 1:00-5:30 
Closed Sept. 2 & 3 

• 
Over 500 Remnants 

• 
Area's Lowest Prices 

• 
Hundreds ofColors 


NEW HOURS 
4-12p.m. 
Mon.-Sun. 
CALLlJEFORE 11:30o.m. FOR DELIVERY 
E:XPIIld.,Z8 

CARPET REMNANT 
•
Small and Large Sizes 

• 
Delivery Available 

• 
Best Selection 


SALE 
FLOOR CENTER 
402 S61JTH IRONWOOD, MISHAWAKA PHONE: 259-5638 
• CARPET • VINYL • TILE • CERAMIC • WOOD • AREA RUGS 
Two campuses provide many athletic facilities 
Whether you enjoy playing foot­ball, basketball, tennis, golf or rac­quetball, or just like going for an occasional dip in the swimming pool, there is an athletic facility for you. lbe quads are available in the spring and fall for various activities (although the University tends to frown upon too much use of the lawns), while, during the cold wea· ther months, you can retreat in· doors. Here is a list of the facilities available to students on both campuses: 
Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter -The double-domed ACC, lo· cated east of the Stadium, contains more area than the Houston Astrodome. The South Dome houses the basketball arena used by both men's and women's varsity teams. The North Dome is used by the hockey, tennis, and track teams among others. Within the stucture are handball, racquetball, squash, basketball, tennis and volleyball courts that are usually open to the public. Reservations are required for 

THIS OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 
Welcome Back 
This Tuesday we will 
deliver a Medium 16" 
pizza with 1 Topping for 
$5.95! 
Each additional item is 
$1.00 
ALSO 
1 Free Liter PEPSI 
most of the courts. One may also take advantage of the ice rink, boxing room and running track. For those interested in Notre Dame sports history, many Notre Dame awards are displayed outside the athletic department offices. 
Burke MemorialGolfCourse­On the west end ofcampus is the 18· hole, 6,SOO·yard University golf course. The course is open until late fall and reopens in early spring. Green fees are 52.50 for students, faculty and staff. Alumni can golf for 
55. The course is a par 71 and does not require that the golfer have great skill. 
Rockne Memorial Building -Lo· cated at the west end of the south quad, "The Rock" is the center for the physical education program. The brick structure contains basket· ball courts, handball-racquetball courts, a weight room, a light appa· ratus room, a swimming pool, and the golfpro shop. Use of the Rockne Memorial is free to all students and faculty members upon presentation of a University identification card. Closing time is I I p.m. daily. 
Stepan Center -Stepan Center and its adjoining fields and outdoor basketball courts are located in the northeast corner of the campus. Outside the domed center, one can play basketball, football, soccer, rugby and softball. The basketball courts, which can be transformed into an ice rink in the winter, are outfitted with lights that allow stu· dents to play basketball after sun­down. Within Stepan Center are basketball and volleyball courts open for recreational and league play. Many interhall sports are con­ducted in this area ofthe campus. 
Rolfs Natatorium (under con­struction) -Construction Is well underway on the Olympic-size pool that will be located on the east end of the Athletic and Convocation Center. The pool, when completed, will have the capability of being divided into three sections. For in· stance, this would allow diving at one end, recreational swimming in the middle, and water polo at the other end. There will be three one­meter diving boards and two three· meter boards, as well as an observation deck. 
Angela Athletic Facillty -Lo­cated north of the Saint Mary's li­brary, Angela includes basketball and volleyball court.~. as well as some fitness equipment. There are also tennis courts and basketball courts outside the building. Infor­mation about use of the AAF can be obtained by calling 284-5549. 

.Hardware .Lumber 
•Shelving 
weekdays 8:00-8:00 9:00-5:00 Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 
Werntz 

1801 South Bend Ave. Just east of Notre Dame 
277-7727 
-
~ 
• 
~ 

The Observer Tuesday, August_28, 1984 -page 20 
UNIVERSITY CENTER 
GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA 
30 DAVLAYWAV 

SALE ENDS SEPT. 9 
NO EXCEPTIONS Y 11 to 9 ·SAT. 10 to 9 ·$UN. 12 t:> ·5 rED QUANTITIES 
FIRST COME FIRST SERVeD 
SPEllER SYSTEIIS 
AND SUB-WOOFERS 


Mon.-Fri. 11 a.m.-9 p.m. ~-•PROGRAMS APPLE, ATARI, TR.S-80, Sat. 10 a.m.-9 p.m. • Sun. 12-5 p.m. '~ -•BOOKS IBM, VIC, SINCLAIR, 
CP/M, COMMODORE, 
09
Looking for Software? ' • :~;~:~; 
TEXAS INSTRUMENI'Look for Software City AoomoNAL otscouNT, THE MORE •DISKs THE PROGRAM DISCOUNT CENTER YOU BUV,lHE MORE voll SAVE! •ACCESSORIES PHONE: 27~-9709 
The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 21 


Auburn's Bojackson dives overa ptle ofbodies in a game against Kentucky last season. Auburn, ranked No. 1 nationally in the AP preseason poll, lost to defending champion and lOth-ranked Miami of Florida last night, 20-18, in the Annual Kickoff Classic. Also ranked in the poll were Nebraska's Cornbuskers at No. 2, Pittsburgh third, Clemson third, and UClA fourth. Notre Dame received onefirst-place vote and came in at the eighth spot. See story at right. 
Auburn ranked No. 1 in AP preseason poll 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
Associated Press 
The Auburn Tigers, who felt they should have won the 1983 national championship but had to settle for third place, have been picked to dethrone the Miami Hurricanes as tne kings ofcollege football in 1984. 
In the preseason Associated Press poll, Auburn received 30 of 60 first­place votes and I ,05 7 of a possible I,200 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters, easily outdistancing runner-up Nebraska. 
The Cornhuskers, who also finished second in the final 1983 rankings after dropping a 31-30 thriller to Miami in the Orange Bowl, were followed by Pitt, Clem­son, VCLA, Texas, Ohio State, Notre Dame, Alabama and Miami. 
Nebraska received five first-place votes and 922 points. Pitt, No. 18last year, received two first-place ballots and 890 points. Clemson, I 1 th a year ago, was second to Auburn in first-place votes with 11, but the Tigers' total of 81 7 points was only good for fourth place. 
VCLA, riding the crest of a 45-9 rout of Illinois in the Rose Bowl, is ftfth with five first-place ballots and 
8 16 points after finishing I7th last 
season. 
"lbe Hurricanes, who opened the 
1984 season last night against 
Auburn in the second annual Kickoff 
Classic, are bidding to become the 
ninth team to win consecutive na­
tional championships. 'I11e last was 
Alabama in 1978-79. 
"Inc No. I ranking was a bit­
tersweet aftermath to the 1983 
season for Auburn Coach Pat Dye. 
''I'd be lying if I said I didn't feel 
good because that's where you want 
to be," Dye said in East Rutherford, 
N.J., where his team was preparing 
for the game with Miami. "But why 
did they pick us No. I this year and 
not last year? We haven't played a 
game yet. It (No. I) puts you in a dif­
ficult situation against everybody 
you play. 
"Miami will be coming in here and . 
we'll be the second straight No. 1 
team they'll play (Miami won the 
1983 national championship by nip­
ping then-No. I Nebraska 31-30 in 
the Orange Bowl) and then we have 
to go down and play Texas. Every­
one will be licking their chops to get 
at us," Dye said. 
"Being No. 1 doesn't change 
anything. We'll just try and get ready 
to play one game at a time. If we're 
good enough, we'll be there. If we're 
not, we'll try to work alittle harder. 
"I'll tell you flat out I'd rather be No. 1 in january than in August with­out any reservations. But I'd rather be No. I now than not be. 'lnat's what you work for," Dye said. 
Texas, which finished fifth last 
year, is sixth starting out this time 
with 734 points. Ohio State, No. 9 in 
1983, Is seventh with 661 points. 
Neither Texas nor Ohio State 
received a No. I vote, but Notre 
Dame, Alabama and Miami each got 
one. 
Notre Dame, which didn't make 
the Top Twenty last year, is eighth 
with 639 points. Alabama, No. 1 5 
last season, is ninth with 632 points 
and Miami rounds out the Top Ten 
The preseason Second Ten con­sists of Penn State, Iowa, Arizona State, Michigan, Southern Method­ist, Oklahoma, Florida, Washington, Boston College and Florida State, with Arizona State receiving two first-place votes and Iowa and Mic­higan one each. The final 1983 Second Ten was Clemson, SMU, Air Force, Iowa, Alabama, West Virginia, UCLA, Pitt, Boston College and East Carolina. 

The AP poll originated in 1936 but there was no preseason poll un­til 1950. Only six teams have finished No. 1 after being ranked there in the preseason poll -Tennes­see in 1951, Michigan State in 1952, Oklahoma in 1956, 1974 and 1975 and Alabama in 1978 -but no one has maintained the No. 1. ranking every week from a preseason through a post-bowl poll. 
APTopT--ty 

The Top Twenty COllege football teams in The As­Bociat&d Preas poll, with first-place vote. In paren­th-. this season's records and total points. Points baaed on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponenta are 
italicized. 
1. Auburn(30) 11-1-Q 1,057 
2. Nebraske (5) 12-1-o 922 
3. Pittsburgh (2) 8-3-1 890 
4. Clemson (11) 9-1-1 817 
5. UCLA (5) 7-4-1 816 
6. Texas 11-1-Q 734 
7. Ohio State 9-3-0 661 
8. Notre Dame (1) 7-5-0 1138 
9. Alabama (1) 8-4-Q 632 
10. Miami 11-1-0 602 
11. Penn State 8-4-1 589 
12. Iowa (1) 9-3-0 581 
13. Arizona State (2) 6-4-1 578 
14. Michigan (1) 9-3-0 453 
15. So. Methodist 10-2-o 419 
16. Oklahoma 8-4-Q 374 
17. Florida 9-2-1 295 
18. Washington 8-4-0 285 
19. Boston College 9-3-0 184 
..

20. Florida State 7-5-0 119 OlhflfS receiving voles: Oklahoma State 111, T exaa A&M 110, Miuouri 103. lttinoos 90, Brigham Young 73, So. California 58, North Carolina 54, Loo/11.,. State 52. Georgia 41, West Virginia 3-4, Ten,__ 33, Wlaconain27, WashingtonSta1e18,AitForce 15, Arkansas 11, Mlaai18ippi 2, Syracuse 2, Tulu 2. Vir­ginia Tech 2, Arlz00111, Houston 1, Kentucky 1, Stan­lord 1. 
Students! Work Smart. Work Simply...With Hewlett-P3ckard. 
Take a good look at your class schedule. 
If you're in Science or Engineering, chances are your classes include Calculus, Physics, or Chemistry. Engineering Statics, or Dynamics. You're running up against some tough calcula­tions, with statistics problems, hyperbolics, and logs. The HP-llC calculator helps you breeze through those problems with a few simple keystrokes. 
Need to simplify problems that are even more complex? The HP-41CV gives you 128 built-in functions-and the HP-41CX over 200-to sim­plify your long homework assignments. Use up to 6,437 bytes of memory to save the programs and formulas you use often. And there are thou­sands of software programs, so you don't have to start from scratch next term. 
If you're in Business or Finance, you're proba­bly taking Accounting, Statistical Methods, Finance, and Investment Analysis. Classes loaded with tedious calculations. End ·the pencil­and-paper drudgery with the HP-12C. The most powerful decision-maker on the market! Dedi­cated keys make time value of money calculations, amortization, Net Present Value (NPV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), and statis­tics solutions as simple as a single keystroke. And it's easy to change values or correct mistakes without reentering your entire problem. 
Hewlett-Packard calculators. They help you work smart this term. And next term. And even later on the job. Get your HP today from your local HP dealer. 
For the location of the dealer nearest you, call TOLL FREE 1-800-FOR-HPPC. 
Ff/O'W HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
J 
t 

The Observer Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 22 
Petrovic, Buchanan absent from Phelps' 1984-85 squad· 

ByJEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Editor 
While U.S. athletes may have left the Olym­pics earlier this month with many of the medals given out, Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps went away from Los An­geles without the one prize he was looking to bring back to South Bend. 
Yugoslavian star Drazen Petrovic an­nounced during the Games that he does not plan to honor the letter-of-intent signed last November to play basketball for the Irish -at least not this year. Instead the 6-4 Petrovic, who led his Yugoslavian squad to a bronze medal, will suit up for Cibona, division cham­pions in his native land and a team which will be playing in the European club champion­ships from November to April. 
In addition, Phelps also discovered over the summer that guard joe Buchanan would be transferring to another school. 
The Irish coach, in Los Angeles to do analy­sis for ABC-1V's coverage of men's basketball, did not have much to s~y on the Petrovic sit­uation. 
"The kid was under a lot ofpressure to stay home," commented Phelps. "He may be here next year, but we just don't know." 
Petrovic, some Irish basketball fans may recall, committed to Notre Dame last Novem­ber 16 following his Yugoslavian National team's 75-73 loss at the hands of the Irish in the ACC. In that game, the curly-haired Petrovic led all scorers with 24 points on 10­15 shooting. 
Nineteen years old at that time, Petrovic had first caught the eye ofPhelps one year ear­lier when his same Yugoslavian National team 
Yugoslavia's Drazen Petrovic may have lost his handle on the ball to fonner North Carolina center Sam Perkins, but Notre Dame Head Coach Digger Phelps may have lost his bold on the 6-4 guard for good. 
AP Phmo 
Petrovic bas elected not to honor his letter of intenttoplayfor the Irish this year. Alsogone from the Irish roster is 6-2 guard ]ojo Buchanan, who is transferring. jeffBlumb's story at right. 
visited the ACC and he registered an impres­sive shooting performance en route to 13 points. Since that game almost two years ago, Phelps had openly coveted the Yugoslavian 
star. 
And in Yugoslavia, that is exactly what Petrovic is-a star. He Is presently regarded as one ofthe best young players in all of Europe. In fact, one European writer even went so far 
as to describe Petrovic as a better version of former NBA and LSU star Pete Maravich. Last year upon signing Petrovic, Phelps was 
excited at the prospect of having his first foreign-born player, yet remained cautious about Petrovic's chances of ever making it to South Bend. 
"Between now and (the time after the Olympics), hopefully he shows up," said the Irish coach at the time. "His plans now are to be here next year as a freshman. Ifhe comes to the United States to play college basketball, he's coming to play at Notre Dame." Since November, Phelps had gone to considerable length to assure the safe arrival of Petrovic here last weekend, including a two-week visit last April to his Petrovic's home inYugoslavia ­all of which may be for naught. Whether he will ever don a Notre Dame basketball uni­form is up in the air for now. 
What it comes down to is that Petrovic has signed a letter-of-intent; his father would like him to get the education which Notre Dame could provide; he himself would like to one day play in the NBA; and he has also signed to play for Cibona this year. It's anyone's guess as to where he will be playing next year -at Notre Dame, in Europe, or somewhere else. 
One player Phelps won't have on his team either this year or next, though, is the 6-2 Buc­hanan, who has decided to transfer to another school after two injury-filled seasons under the Golden Dome. 
A Seattle, Wash., native, Buchanan went through a switch from shooting guard to point guard during his sophomore campaign. He also was confined to the bench off-and-on during the second half of last season with recurring tendinitis in his knees. 
Of Buchanan's decision, Phelps would only say, "Jo Jo's a player who's been iQjured a lot the last couple ofyears and who is frustrated." 
Buchanan, who averaged 3.1 points a game on 19.7minutesplayedlastseason,reportedly is considering attending UCLA, Cal-Irvine, and Nevada-Las Vegas, but he is said to be leaning toward the Bruins. 
·············································································~ 
The Student Activities Board's 
Services Committee 
Presents: 
• 

STEPAN MALL 
L Stepan Center I 
••••••••••••• ~ednesday,Thur.sdayI I August 29 & 30t I I 10:00 a.m.-6:00p.m.I •I ••• •I ! I I *Refrigerator rentals *Lumber 
l 
~ *600 carpets *Sofas & tables 
l 
I • •• •• *Bookcases ·* Hammocks 
I 
l 

.. : *clothes:• *Calendars • 
*Wall Hangings :
*Plants :
•
• 


----~-~-~--~--------------------~ 
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
~ 
§ ,, "' -. ': Men's Hair Styling at Its finest I ~ minutes from campus S 
I $ 00 HAIRCUTSI
§
§

I 272-0312 Welcome Back ."" • ·I S 277-1619 Students ~~ S 
•
545:\5 rerrace Lane 

(St. Rd. 25) Acro!>s from Martin's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 
~~~oc~~~~=ccc~~oooc~~~~occc~~ 
Bloom County 
Yt5•. 7HI~ IS MICHilEl 'S P!I?50NAL M~NN£1?•. 'lf.S... T'M lfr1HE HOr6L.. 
.·"'I 


Bloom County 

OH. M/CHAU MICHIU 51/RELY THIS MICHIIeL ... 
ffl.UJW 

ACROSS 1 Bargain event 5 Evergreen tree 10 Student's 
translation 14 Conceits 15 By oneself 16 Silkworm 17 Word In 
QED 18 Kind of 
sweater 20 Supervised 22 Establishes 
a residence 23 Emporiums 25 Tibetan 
antelope 
26 The remain· lng persons 28 Raymond 
the author 33 Halt 34 Mild 
expletive 35 Rail bird 36 Dowrong 

~~~.at~---------------------------------------T-u-es_d_a_y,_A_u_gu
__st_2_s_,_19•8-4---p·a•g•e•2-3 

Berke Breathed ~campus 

•8 p.m. -Hypnotist John Mapes, Fitzpatrick
HOt.P tr... 

MICHIIEl.l M~Y-' WH6~ 1Vt 116'5 tlflCK. CIINC€L 
Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Activities.
Yll DetN '?' ffl? CI?YfN Of/r WI/P.J 7WO HOIJRS 10 
MICifllti.-' 
7lff N/JnONIIt.. 

•8 p.m. -H.l.'s Night, Niles, Michigan. Sponsored
IS 711M '(()(J ll 
Clrtei?GeNCY.

SHOWTTMe-' lllt.MJSr 
by Senior Class. 
SWAIMV£P MY CHAINS /
I 

\
1/H•• 

•8 p.m. -Putt-PuttGolf4 Garnes, N. Main & Mis­
YES. '----­

hawaka Ave. Sponsored by junior Class. J I. 
TV Tonight 

6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 


8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
!O:OOp.m. 
10:30p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
)Wf/IICJ'If)(JR 
NOS€ PONe 
11:30p.m.
IIGAIN, PIPN'T 'y(JIJ. 
\ ,.. 
12:30a.m. 

q~ 
l:OOa.m. 2:00a.m. 2:30a.m. 3:00a.m. 4:00a.m. 4:30a.m. 


16 22 16 22 16 22 22 
16 22 46 46 16 46 
16 22 46 16 22 22 46 
16 
16 22 46 46 46 46 46 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News M0 A0 S0 H Family Feud TheA-Team After mash Domestic life 
Rlptide CBS Tuesday Night Movie Lester Sumrall Teaching LaHayes on Family life Remington Steele Today with Lester Sumrall 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Dwight Thompson Tonight Show 
U.S. Open Highlights CBS Late Movie "Manitou" Kenneth Copeland Believer's Con­ventlon Late Night with David Letterman 
All in the Family Nightwatch Independent Network News Jimmy Swaggart Daily 
Jerry Falwell l.ester Sumrall Teaching Blackwood Brothers 

The Daily Crossword 
37 Foils 40 Poorer than mediocre 41 Awkward 
boats 43 Rivers: Sp. 44 lt. food 46 Baby bird 48 Military 
area 49 USAagcy. 
50 Show plainly 
52 Graduate's designation words 
56 Lasts 59 False lead 61 Nimble 62 Arrow 
polson 63 Of ships 64 Very long 
times 65 Musical group 
66 Mode 67 Printer's term 
DOWN 1 Appear 2 Taj Mahal 
city 3 Usurers 4 Manors 5 Prepares 
and serves food 
6 Escape 7 A beetle 8 Picnic 
pests 
9 Assign to an obscure position 
10 Groups of five 11 Russ. city 
12 Agreeable 13 Chatters on and on 19 Kind of jacket 21 Pierces with horns 24 Dickens' merchant 

26 Indian or Arctic 27-Haute 29 Repulsive 
old women 30 Shellfish trap 
31 A Muse 32 Flying aid 34 Kill 38 Certain 
hats 39 Disburse 42 Hid away 45 Blames 47 -majesty 48 Unmarried 
51 Mercenary 52 Baby bed 53 Horneof 
song 54 Arabian gulf 
55 Coli. gr,oup 57 Sea eagle 58 Method: 
abbr. 60 Climbing vine 
Welcome Back Students Good thru Sept 84 
w~e <!Iolnnial IJancak.e Jlnune 
' 
$l.OOOFFT'::!~d~ 
OUR SPECIALTY Limit 1 OVEN-BAKED per person APPLE PANCAKES 
U.S. 31 North m Roseland 

Open 7 days a week at 6:00am 
Tuesday, August 28, 1984 -page 24
S~orts 
Saturday's scrimmage uninspired; Beuerlein impresses at quarterback 

By TIIERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
With two weeks remaining until the season begins in Indianapolis at the Hoosier Dome against Purdue, the Notre Dame football team capped a week of twice-a-day practices with an uninspired scrimmage on Saturday. 
The intense practice schedule left many of the players' legs and bodies weary, and a lack of aggressiveness and many mistakes is what resulted. 
"The team is tired -we've been 
working for a week, going double sessions," Coach Gerry Faust noted, after overseeing a 10-minute run­ning period. "Their legs are tired, and that's why we're running_ to get them in top shape." 
In keeping with scrimmages in the past, the first units did not compete against each other, so that the coaches could look at individual players in different positions. 
Some key personnel were missing from Saturday's scrimmage, which also may have been the reason for some mistakes by less experienced players. Allen Pinkett, Mark Bavaro, Joe Howard and Tom Doerger were among the notable players who did not play due to slight injuries. All of them are expected to be practicing this week. 
Steve Beuerlein was one of the few individual stars of the scrimmage, completing nine of eleven passes for 218 yards. Beuer­lein wasted no time getting started, capping a six-play, 93-yard drive with a 21-yard scoring strike to tight end Ricky Gray. 
Alonzo Jefferson, Pinkett's re­
placement at tailback, ·contributed 
runs of 17 and 21 yards en route to 
Irish sports have active summer 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor: 
Notre Dame students may have been on break this summer, but many Notre Dame athletes and the athletit department were keeping busy: There were several coaching changes and additions, as well as a good amount of football news. The following is a briefupdate: 
•It is not official yet, but Rich Hunter apparently has resigned as soccer coach. The details of his res­ignation are not yet known, but will be made available as soon as possi­ble. Itappears the new soccer coach will be Dennis Grace, who was hired as an assistant coach over the summer. Grace is a former Indiana 
soccer star, who most recently served as the head soccer coach at Bloomsburg University in Pennsyl­vania. He was the coach of the Mid­west team in the 1980 National Sports Festival. He also has had coaching posts with Tri-State Uni­versity, Indiana State-Evansville, and Clemson. He will have a tough job succeeding Hunter who compiled a 
127-32-8 record over the past seven years without much scholarship help. 
•There is a new field hockey coach also. Former Olympian Jill Lindenfeld was named this sum­mer to lead the Irish women. Un­denfeld, who has been teaching in the Berrien County (Mich.) school districts for the past five years, succeeds Jan Galen Bishop who left after last season. A 1975 
graduate of West Chester ( Pa.) State College, Undenfeld served two years as head field hockey coach at Cal Poly-Pomona. 
•Three new assistant coaches were named over the summer also. 

Greg Bruce has joined women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao's staff as an assistant. He replaces former assistant Jill Jeffrey who resigned to become head coach at Montclair State (N.j.). And Ted Potts, former track coach at Niles High School, has been added to Irish track coach Joe Piane's staff. 
•College 
football has been a very newsworthy topic this sumd\er as the Supreme Court ruled that the NCAA's control ofall collegiate tele­vision rights was unconstitutional. The ruling has caused a great amount ofconfusion, ifnot chaos, as Division 1-A colleges have broken up into two major groups -the Col­legiate Football Association ( CFA) and a coalition ofBig Ten and Pacific Ten conferences. Each group has been making its own deals. There will be more on this situation later this week in The Observer. 

•The 
pre-season polls are now out and Gerry Faust's Irish are picked to finish quite high in most of them. In fact, two publications have picked the Irish to finish No. I at the end of the season.GamePlan and Gary Aus­tin's College Football have tabbed Notre Dame as the team to beat. Other high rankings include Inside Sports (No. 5), Street & Smith (No. 6 ), and Sport (No. 6 ). A composite poll of all the pre-season picks will appear in Friday's paper. 

•Individual 
Notre Dame players have also been honored by being named to various pre-season all­America lists. Allen Pinkett was just about everybody's choice for first-team running back, while offen­sive linemen Larry Williams and Mike Kelley were also mentioned several times. End Mike Golic and safety Joe Johnson also received 


some pre-season recognition. Pinkett received quite a bit ofatten­tion as a Reisman Trophy candidate. 
•A number of 1984 Notre Dame graduates attempted to join National Football League teams this summer and, with the season just around the corner, appear to have been fairly successful. 
Blair Kiel, who was picked up in the IIth round by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, not only appears to have a good chance of making the Bucs as a punter and quarterback, but has been impressive enough to 
put pressure on the veteran quarter­backs. 
Running back Greg Bell who was picked in the first round by the Buf­falo Bills went through a contractual dispute with the Bills before finally signing recently. He has not been overly impressive yet, but the layoff probably has had something to do with that. 
Chris Brown has been a pleasant surprise as defensive back for the Pittsburgh Steelers. Brown had two interceptions in a pre-season game against Dallas on prime-time televi­sion. 
Brown's partner in the secondary last year, StaceyToran, did not have much luck making the squad of the defending world champion Oakland Raiders, but, as oflast week, was get­ting a look from some other clubs in need ofsecondary help. 
Most of the bad news for Irish players came from the Dallas Cow­boys who cut ninth-round pick Nell Maune and (ree agents Kevin Smith and Mike Johnston. Defen­sive lineman Jon Autry was cut by the New York Jets after trying to make the team as a free agent. 
see SUMMER, page 14 
the touchdown.Jefferson provided a good look to the coaches, finishing the day with 14 rushes for 78 yards and caught two passes for 48 yards, but had to leave practice after knocking himself out on a block for fullback Chris Smith. 
Beuerlein also engineered a 
second drive of65 yards, dumping a 
pass to Jefferson for a 41-yard gain 
and topping it off with a nine-yard 
touchdown pass to Milt Jackson. 
The mistakes began to become more prevalent as the practice wore on, with the offensive unit suffering the wrath of offensive coordinator 
Ron Hudson's whistle when doing grass drills~ punishment for proce­dure pe?alttes and fumbles. 
Runrung back Byron Abraham gained 61 yards o~ 18 carries, but fumbled the ball twice, exemplary ~f some ~fthe troubles the offens~ umt expenenc~d. Three passes, u.pped by offenstve players, were mter· 
cepted, and no fewer than 1 3 penalties were committed during the two-and-a·halfhour scrimmage. 
"The scrimmages are a time for us to look at what we need to im­prove," Faust said. "We've got to im­prove our aggressiveness on defense for 57 yards). Also, freshman quae· terback Tom Byrne ran the two­minute offense to perfection, completing six passes in a row, set­ting up a 28-yard John Carney field goal. 
The defensive secondary suffered through a couple oflapses, as Beuer­lein often delivered the ball to open receivers. On the first play of the third series, Beuerlein hit Milt Jack­son, who got behind freshman cor­nerback Brandy Wells, for a 75-yard gain. Four plays later, Jefferson dove over from the one for the first rush­ing touchdown ofthe day. 
The number one defensive unit shut down the second offensive team three straight times, aided by two dropped passes and one proce­dure penalty by the offense. The second unit was not the only offen­sive squad frustrated by the first defense. In the eleven times it was on the field, the opposition could 
only manage three points against the number one defense. 
John McCabe and Tony Furjanic each had eight tackles to lead the list 

and cut down on the number of of best individual defensive perfor­mistakes on offense." mances. 
There were some eye-raising sta­Faust got a chance to look at all of usucs, though, as freshman his quarterbacks. Scott Grooms, speedster Tony Brown(four catches who ran the second team and abo for 53 yards) tied for the most recep­tions with Alvin Miller (four catches 
see FOOTBALL, page 17 

Student ticket distribution · begins today for all seniors 
Student ticket distribution for the 1984 football season begins today at 3 p.m. for all seniors who purchased season tickets over the summer. The distribution will continue through the week for all other students according to the schedule detailed below. 
Distributed simultaneously with the five-game package for games in Notre Dame Stadium will be the tickets for the Purdue-Notre Dame game in the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome and a bus ticket to Indianapolis for students who indicated on the ticket application that they would use this University-supplied service. 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who purchased football tickets should report to the ticket windows at Gate 3 of the Athletic and Convocation Center. Student football tickets may be picked up Tuesday through Friday according to the following schedule which must be strictly adhered to. 
•Seniors may pick up their tickets today from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
•Juniors 
and all undergraduate students in their ninth semester or higher may pick up their tickets tomorrow from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. 

•Sophomores, 
graduate students, and law students may pick up their tickets on Thursday, August 30, from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. 


•Freshmen may pick up their tickets on Friday, August 31, from 3 
p.m. to 8 p.m. 

The reserved seats in the student sections have not been preas­signed by the ticket office. Ifyou desire to sit with a classmate, you must present your I D's together for adjacent seating. No student may present more than four I D's. 
•
Band members and prospective band members should check with band officials regarding ticket distribution procedures. 

•
Married students who purchased tickets during the summer should report to the ACC with their respective class on the sched­uled day. When picking up your student tickets please .present evidence of your marital status, such as a marriage license, joint checking account. 

•Saint 
Mary's students may pick up their tickets on the schedule listed. If a Saint Mary's student wishes to sit with a Notre Dame stu­dent whose class is the same they must present their I D's at the same time. No student may present more than four ID's. 


Crowd control gates and student security personnel will be utilized for the issuance of the student tickets. Please stand in single lines as indicated by the crowd control gates. When arriving at the ACC, please enter Gate 3. Gate 3 will be open at 2:30p.m. daily. Your cooperation and orderly conduct will enable the ticket committee to minimize your inconvenience. 
If after the issue dates listed student tickets are still available, they rna; be purchased by student; who did not respond during the sum­mer. This issue will be on a first-come, first-served basis until student tickets are exhausted. Tickets will be issued through windows No. I and 2 on the second floor ofthe ACC on Monday, September 3, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Please note, this is only for students who did not receive a ticket during the regular issue dates ofAugust 28-31. This issue will be for the five-game package for games played in Notre Dame Stadium. Student tickets for the Purdue game are sold out. 
•You must have an ID card for admission to all home football games. 






