
Irish Extra -page 9 

VOL XIX, NO. 10 tht: iJHkpl"ndnH ~llllknt Ill"\\ ~IXtpl"r ~lT\ ing JHJln daml" and ~aint man·.., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1984 

This student didn't quite make tt to the libraryyes­tion for him. There will beplenty ofdays to "throat tt terday afternoon. The reflecting pool outside and a out at the 'brar" as the semester wears on, but the rather wetfrisbee gameproved too much ofa tempta-reflecting pool will soon be drained andfrisbee wea­ther will turn tofrost. 
SMC counseling center offers more than senior career guidance service 
By SHARON HOUK 
News Staff 
Desperate seniors seeking em­
ployment are not the only students 
to whom the Saint Mary's Counsel­
ing and Career Development Center 
caters: Even freshmen can take ad­
vantage of programs ranging from 
career guidance to eating concerns 
groups. 
The center offers a wide variety of programs this year designed for all undergraduate students. Career de­velopment is of special interest to seniors, but the center offers pro­grams for students from their fresh­man year through graduation. 
According to the center's director, Mary DePauw, it is impor­tant that students start considering career directions at the beginning of their college years. Providing fresh­men with a smoother transition is the center's focus for the incoming class. The center's programs for freshmen include a workshop on academic skills and a special one­hour program entitled "Freshman Goal Exploration-A 4-Year Plan" on 
Sept. 12 from 6:30·7:30 p.m. in Regina Hall. 
The center also provides sop­homores with career development programs and workshops on choos­ing a major. juniors and seniors may take advantage of such programs as Resume Writing, Interviewing Skills, and Assertive job Search Tactics. 
All students have access to the recently updated, reorganized and 
expanded Career Resource Center located in 168 LeMans Hall. The Career Resource Center contains resource material on nearly every aspect of making a career choice. In a comfortable atmosphere, a student may browse through books on top­ics such as stress management, the Peace Corps, specific job vacancies and internships. The shelves also hold literature from many corpora­tions and organizations as well as a reference guide to the career choices and addresses of recent Saint Mary's alumnae. 
The Counseling and Career De­velopment Center at Saint Mary's was established in 1978 when the counseling center and the career de­velopment center were con­solidated. DePauw says she feels personal issues cannot be separated from career development. A more efficient and effective program is provided by a single center address­ing various student needs. 
Since DePauw became director of the center in the fall of 1980 there has been significant growth in pro­grams offered. The center has always offered programs for underclas· smen, but is continually adjusting it­self to student needs. 
DePauw stresses that the center does not function as a vocational compass. She says she believes stu­dents can be overly concerned about molding themselves to a career and, as a result, neglect their education. Others neglect develop· 
see CENTER, page 4 
U.S. only nation to veto U.N. resolution condemning Israel 
Associated l"ress 
The United States yesterday vetoed a Security Council resolution demanding that the Israeli army in southern Lebanon remove "obstacles to the restoration of nor­mal conditions in the areas under its occupation." 
The vote was 14-1. 
The resolution called on Israel "to respect strictly the rights ofthe civil­ian population under its occupa­tion." It demanded that Israel open all roads and lift restrictions on the movement ofpeople and goods and the operation of Lebanese govern· ment institutions. 
Warren Clark, the U.S. representa­tive at the council, cast the veto and said, "We cannot be a party to an un­balanced solution which takes a one· sided, myopic look at only one part ofthe problem." 
"We believe it is unrealistic and unreasonable for the council to ad­dress the question of foreign forces in southern Lebanon and humanitarian and security problems there, without dealing with these same problems in all ofLebanon," he added. 
'Orientation Counseling' welcome replacement for SMC 'Big Sisters' 
By MARY HEILMANN 
StaffReporter 
'Orientation Counseling' was pro­vided to Saint Mary's freshmen upon thier arrival this year in an attempt to ease the transition into college life, replacing th~ Big Sister/ Little Sister orientation program that had previously been used. 
The new program was instituted "to give a much more complete ori­entation" and to correct the prob­lems that have plagued the Big Sister program in past years, Orientation Week Chairman Carol Hastings said. 
"The big problem with the Big Sister program was that not enough girls volunteered to be big sisters, and, for the most part, the commit· ment of those who did never lasted. lbis was complicated by the diffi­culty of organizing activities for such a large group of people, and in communicating these activities to the whole campus," Hastings said. 
Under the Orientation Counsel­ing program, which was originated by Director of Student Activities Mary Ann O'Donnell, freshmen were divided into groups of ten to twelve students under the guidance of an upperclassman orientation counselor. The orientation coun­selor was then responsible for coor­dinating all aspects of orientation­academic, social, and spiritual­within her group, as well as facilitat· ing interactions between other orientation groups and the Notre Dame community. 
Orientation counselors were re­quired to attend three two-hour training sessions last spring and were issued handbooks delineating their duties, which included con-
He referred to Syrian and Palestin­ian forces that control much of nor­thern and eastern Lebanon. 
Lebanese Ambassador Rachid Fakhoury, who introduced the draft resolution through council-member Malta, said after the vote that his 
tion of a friendly superpower, the United States, to a resolution limited to humanitarian aspects." 
He thanked the council members voting in favor for "feeling the human tragedy" of 800,000 Lebanese living under Israeli occu­pation and "inhuman practices." 
tacting each of the girls in their group during the summer, as well as greeting them individually upon their arrival at Saint Mary's. 
Michelle Coleman, a sophomore orientation counselor, praised the program, saying,"Being an orienta· tion counselor was really fun. It was a neat way to meet the freshmen, to take them around, and to make them feel at home. And it's great for the freshmen because they get to meet one upperclassman plus nine other freshmen." 
Under the Big Sister program, stu· dents had complained that few so­cial activities were planned and that many big sisters lacked the commit· ment necessary for successful and lasting relationships. 
Terri Kammerer, a sophomore 
see FROSH, page 3 
Aryeh Levin, deputy Israeli ambas­sasor to the United Nations, said the area under Israeli occupation has been kept free ofthe bloody turmoil and upheaval plaguing the rest of Lebanon. 
"In the month of August, for in­stance, not one Lebanese was killed in the south. ·But according to Lebanese police sources, some 21 5 were killed elsewhere in Lebanon," Levin said. He described charges of Israeli mistreatment of Lebanese citizens as "patent nonsense." 

lhe Obsen-er/Vk Guufno
Congratulations 
Senior Martin Doyle received tbe DistinguishedMilitary Student 
Awardyesterdayfrom his commander. Doyle, an Amry ROTCArts 
and Letters major, is also a resident assistant in Howard Hall. 


Friday, September 7, 1984 -page 2
The Observer 

McDonald's Corporation announced 
yesterday it will donate to the city ofSan Diego the site ofthe restau­rant where 21 people were killed by a gunman in july. city of San Diego. In a statement read by spokesman Chuck Rubner from com­pany headquarters in Oak Brook, Ill., McDonald's Vice President Richard Starmann said, "After listening to the suggestions of the community, we are in agreement that the city will use this property in a sensitive and meaningful manner." Rubner said the property is valued "in the hundreds of thousands of dollars," but he gave no specific amount.AP 
"Marxism and Christianity', by Alasdair 
Macintyre, professor of philosophy at Vanderbilt University, has recently been published in paperback by the University of Notre Dame Press. Macintyre's book traces the historical development of Marxism from its philosophical origins in the works of Hegel and Feuerbach. -Tbe Observer 
Shuttle busesare being rerouted until Saturday because the LeMans parking lot at Saint Mary's is being striped. The shuttle stop has been moved from the LeMans lot to the Regina hall entrance and the buses that normally stop at University Village apartments are traveling directly down Douglas Road from Saint Mary's. The LeMans lot has been closed since Wednesday evening for finishing touches.­
Tbe Observer 
Vice President of Commercial Bank, 
Detroit, Terrence Keating is the new president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Keating succeeds F. Nordy Hoffman, who has become honorary president and an ex-officio member of the Board of Trustees. Keating is a 1960 graduate of the College of Business Administration. -Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame Archives recently received the archival records of Pax Christi USA, the American branch of the international Catholic peace movement. Materials include corres­pondence, financial records, petitions, minutes ofexecutive council meetings, news releases and newspaper articles written by and about members. They join related Catholic peace movement records, including the papers of the Catholic Peace Fellowship and of Pax Christi USA'S president, Auxiliary Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton of Detroit. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Shakespeare Society 
and the Student Activites Board Cultural Arts Commission are spon­soring a trip to the Stratford Drama Festival during Fall Break. The trip is open to all members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's commu­nity but must be limited to the first 4 7 people who reserve places. Transportation, accomodations, and tickets for 4 plays are included in the low fee of 87 dollars. Payment must be made by Friday, Sep­tember 21. For more information, contact Professors Rathburn or Gernes or call Susie at 3425.-Tbe Observer 
Fulbright grants are available to seniors and graduate students. There will be a mandatory informational meeting for all prospective candidates Monday, Sept. 10 at 4:30 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Room 121. The Notre Dame campus deadline for all Fullbright application forms is 5 p.m. Oct. 9. Applications should be submitted to Language Professor J. William Hunt in Decio Room 372 (239-6223). After 7 p.m. he can be reached at home, 287-6954. Campus Fulbright committee interviews ofselected candidates wiU be held in mid-October, date and place for each arranged by advance notice before Oct. 20. The deadline for recommendations to reach New York is Oct. 3 1. -Tbe Observer 
Student parking is available in the parking lot (marked D-1) between the University Club and the Stadium. Be­cause ofthe opening ofthe Decio Faculty Hall and pool construction at the rear of the ACC, movement of faculty/staff personnel now causes the north half of the Stadium lot to be given to faculty/staff and visitors with passes. Generally, the new faculty/staffarea is north ofGate 5 on the east side and Gate 14 on the left side ofthe Stadium. Signs denoting the changes have been erected. -The Observer 
Weather 
Windy and warm today and tonight with highs in the mid 80s and lows in the mid 60s. However, sparks could fly on and off the field tomorrow -with a 50 per­cent chance of thunderstorms during the season opener against the Boilermakers. Highs will be in the mid 80s again tomorrow. -AP 

The=Observer-
The Observer ( l s~ '\'.1'.1 .! ~IIIlO) j, puhlisht·d :\1onday throuf.(h frida\· and on homt· foorhall Satun.lays. t·xn·pt durinlo( exam and VOJcation pt"riod' The Observer i' puhhshcd hy rht· ,rudcnrsof thc l'nin·rsitv of N•>lrt· Damc and Saint Mary's Colkgc. Suh,uiption' may ht· pun.:hased for Sl'\ pl'r vcar ('I'\ per 'tl'mt:Mcr) hy writinf.( The Observer, 
P.O Box Q. Notrc lh.me.lndiana -t6'\'\6 
The Observer is a mcmht'rofThe M;­S«)ciated Press. All rl·produt·tion right' art· rt·se rn:d 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.............................. Tom Small Design Assistant ........... Maureen Murphy Typesetters ................................................ Ted News Editor ............................Amy Srephan Copy Editor.................................... liz Miller Sports Copy Edttor.................::..jeffBlumb Sports Special Layout.......... Chris Bowler VIewpoint Layout................]ohn Mennell Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout................. Kevin Williams ND Day Editor ..................Jeanne Bowman SMC Day Editor............ Maggie O'Connell Ad Design ............Suzanne, Marianne, and Jeanne Pbotograpber........................... Vic Guarino 
Hands down, McDonald's is the winner in the great fast-food race 
Somewhere on Madison Avenue somebody has con­
vinced someone that Burger King has a chance of 
beating out McDonald's. Forget it. 
I don't like Burger King. After being pounded this summer by television ads espousing the greatness of flame broiling, I dedded one day at work to part from my Big Mac routine and give this upstart a try. Terrible. I waited in line 15 minutes as one employee stood before one cash register and hollered "Need a Whopper'' into a microphone for each of the 15 cus­tamers who wanted one. Another employee rushed about in greasy topsiders filling orders one item at a time. When I got my Whopper, it was cold. I'm not arguing all Whoppers are cold, but let's just say I've never had a cold Big Mac. A Big Mac has fresh, crisp salad dressings. When you bite into a Whopper, an entire garden of almost-whole 
vegetables ooze forth onto The real bur-<¥f ki1113 worth an estimated S400 
your cardboard box. If you're lucky, your tatooed burger might stay posi­tioned on the bun. Almost al­
ways, you can fill 12 baskets Army and Air Force." full of bun when the beast is Not so, said the Navy. Last gone. month, the Navy Resale and 
But somehow Burger Services Support Office King persists with its petty awarded McDonald's a 1 0 advertisements. In the first year S600 million contract quarter of 1984, McDonald's to build Golden Arches on commanded the fast-food in­Navy bases around the dustry with 34 percent of world. What about on ships? the market. Burger King, al­"Not yet," said McDonald's beit in second place, held vice president Dick Star­only 16 percent with a pesty mann. "But ifit happens, it'll Wendy's snapping at its be McDonald's." heels. Of course it'll be 
Does Burger King still McDonald's. Who else? think that Americans lie Would a bunch of sailors be 
awake at night trying to decide between a Whopper and a Big Mac? Somebody tell those Madison Avenue folks that the game isn't working. The American public has already decided: it's McDonald's hands down. 
And it's probably the same people who are trying to make us think we like Pepsi more than Coke. In grocery stores, they give us sips of Coke and sips of Pepsi and a saltine cracker in between. Is that the challenge? The Great Pepsi Challenge? As Mean joe Greene would say, give us a case and we'll think about it. 
Bill Cosby is right: Coke is better than Pepsi because a beverage is better than syrup. All of which is more proof that McDonald's is better than Burger King. Next time you're in McDonald's, try 
to order a Pepsi. They won't let you; they know Pepsi ---:Th=--e-v-=i~e-w_s_e_x_p_r_e_s-se-d-:-:-i-n-t-=-h-e-=1=-n-s-i~d-:-e-c-o-::1-u-m-n­
ought to be covered by Superfund, and they don't carry are the views of the author, and do not neces­it. But walk across the street to the nearby Burger King and order a Pepsi. Without a blink of an eye, the em-sarily reflect the views of the editorial board 
ployee behind the microphone will nod, draw breath, or staff. 
First it's Five Points. Whip up to Michigan. Then an OC kegger. 
Let's be serious: Notre Dame's 
alcohol pol icy has forced us off 
campus to party. But now instead 
of stumbling across the quad 
to get home, we have to drive. 
Getting picked up on DWI is one 
thing; killing yourself or someone 
else is quite another. 
Twenty-four people in Indiana are injured or killed each day in drunk-driving crashes. Among our age group, drunk driving is the number one cause of death. 
We've heard all this before--now 
it's time to think about it. On 
weekend nights, one out of every 
ten drivers on the road is drunk. 
Don't let that one be you. 

Hey, let's be careful out there. 
Public service announcement by the Govemo,.s Task Force to Reduce 

Bob VondL'.rhel"de 
~ 
Editor-in-Chief 
In s ,·de F r ,. d a 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;::::;iiiiiiiiiiii 
and announce, "Need a Pepsi." 

What kind ofcompany would let you buy Pepsi? You couldn't get a Coke ifyou wanted one, which is reason enough for me to stay away from Whopper land. 
I used to think the world was divided East-West. Fa­ther Hesburgh has conviced me that it might be North-South. But sadly enough, it seems national defense has been affected by the McDonald's-Burger King theorists. La.'\t May, the Army and the Air Force decided to regu­late fast food, giving Burger King an exclusive contract 
million to serve all Army and Air Force bases. Burger King quickly pronounced itself "the official fast food of the 
caught dead eating "Whoppers"? Whoppers? Cook up some Quarter Pounders and Big Macs (cholesterol and all), and keep the men happy. And while you're at it, throw in a few Cokes. Can the Pepsi. 
Surely there are more important issues in the world but when the armed forces spend S 1 billion on fast-food contracts, the powers-that-be need to be informed by the citizenry. I cast my vote for McDonald's and raise my glass ofCoke in a toast to the Admirals. 
The Navy knows. Now let's hope the Army and Air Force correct their wayward path. The only consola­tion is that the soldiers and the pilots didn't choose the Huddle. But at least the Huddle serves Coke. 



--I 
The Observer Friday, September 7, 1984-page 3 
Khadafy regains post after coup attempt fails 
Associated Press 

EDITOR'S note : Correspondent john Winn Miller recently spent ninedays in Libya onhissecond ex­tended visit to the North African na­tion. The sources for this story asked not to be identifiedforfear of retaliation or diplomatic repercus­sions. 
Four months after surviving a coup attempt, Col. Moammar Khadafy has regained full control of the country using youthful shock troops, prison camps and televised executions by strangulation. 
During 15 years ofnearly absolute rule ofthis North African nation, the 42-year-old Khadafy has survived at least six coup attempts, diplomats say. 
But the last one, on May 8, against Khadafy's heavily fortified barracks· home in Tripoli was different. This time it wasn't the military but a small band ofcivilians that carried out the attempt. Most of the commandos, perhaps a dozen, were trapped by Libyan forces in an apartment build­ing and killed, sources say. 
For the next month and a half Libya was swept by a reign of terror instigated by Khadafy and carried out by fanatic young supporters known as Revolutionary Commit· tees. The armed youths prowled the streets arresting anyone they deemed suspicious. Shots rang out throughout the nights almost to the end ofJune, residents said. 
Diplomats said 12 people offi· dally were executed but the num· ber may be closer to 120. 
"Seven were brutally strangled with clothes-hanging wire on televi· sion. It was obscene. They died very 

Save 10% ­new 
slowly while the kids slapped them 
on their faces," one diplomat said. 
The public executions ended be­
cause of protests at home and from 
other Arab countries, the diplomats 
said. 
As many as 5,000 people -includ· 
ing Westerners -were rounded up 
by the Revolutionary Committees 
and locked up in "concentration 
camps" in the desert, they said. 
Many were only held a few days until 
they could prove who they were, 
said the diplomats, who said they es­
timated "thousands" remained im­
prisoned. 
At the end of June, the 
Revolutionary Committees disap­
peared from the streets but they are . 
still around -if operating more dis­
creetly. Diplomats believe there are 
only a few thousand people in the 
Revolutionary Committees but that 
they are enough to control the 
country. 
"As long as you have a big army 
and the Revolutionary Committees, 
it is easy to control the country. 
There are only 3.5 million Libyans, 
after all," one diplomat said. 
There is, however, growing frustraion among the civilian popu­lation because of a shortage of con­sumer goods caused by dwindling oil revenues and Khadafy's attempts to wipe out small businesses and replace them with government-run stores. 
But the main problem he mayface is with the army, the diplomats say. 
"Khadafy's relations with the army are oft'and on all the time," said one diplomat, citing the number of military coup attempts. "They get special privileges in stores, houses, cars," he said. 
GOOD 



011)" 

Eddy St. (Across from Nickle's) 
MON-THURS9-7 FR19-8 SAT9-5:30 WE ACCEPT CHECKS, MASTERCARD, VJSA AND COlO HARn CASH 
8096 every day on & used software 
phone: 287-5533 
STRICT CASH 
These two students will go without lunch on Wed· nesdaysfram nowon, as theyparticipate in the World Hunger Coalition's Wednesday fastprogram. For each 

California heat wave sets records, brings on power outages, injuries 
A.ssodated Press drew record amounts ofelectricity. 
Two men were in comas 
A searing Southern California heat Thursday after being taken to wave has toppled three temperature County-USC Medical Center for records in two days, knocked out treatment ofheat stroke, emergency power to almost 100,000 people room Dr. tinton Bayless said. and hospitalized several people with "Amazingly enough, we usually heat exhaustion. Officials said don't see much ofany(heat cases) at Thursday the worst may be over_ all," he said. "But the past couple of 
Thousands fled to the beaches, days, we've had two very severe classes were shortened in over· ones. . . I also know of a couple of heated schoolrooms and air con­
other cases that were a<lrnitted to ditioners cranked up to high speed other area hospitals." 
Paramedics have handled a num­ber ofheat-exhaustion calls, said Jim Wells of the city Fire Department, but he said complete reports on the numbers were not yet available. 
"Go somewhere where there's air conditioning," said Dr. Laurene Mas­cola. "Go to a museum, go to a super­market and stand by the meat department, go to the Galleria." 
A third temperature record crashed early Thursday · an over­night low of83, highest low ever for the date. Wednesday's low of82 was the highest low for Sept. 5, and that day's high point was a record 105. 
However, National Weather Ser­vice forecaster Bob Grebe said Thursday that the high-pressure sys­tem that has caused the heat wave was broken. "But don't get out your fur coats yet," he said, predicting temperatures in the mid-90s down­town and in the 1OOs in the inland valleys "for the next several days." 
About 500,000 people went to Los Angeles County beaches Wed· 

Frosh 
continued from page 1 

who was a little sister last year, ex­pressed the opinion of most little sisters by saying,"Many big sisters never even contacted their little sisters, so that they had no one to turn to as far as upperclassmen. The new program is so much more ex­tensive than what we did last year." 
Already the orientation groups have participated in a "Pre-Casino Icebreaker" party with Notre Dame, a Hawaiian luau with Dillon and Alumni halls, and an Almost Anyth· ing Goes competition, with each team consisting of five group mem­bers and five Notre Dame men. Future events include a "Dogbook Exchange,"tentatively scheduled for September 19 at Haggar Center, and an all-campus Scavenger Hunt. 
According to Hastings, who served as Big Sister/Little Sister chairwoman last year, some criticism of the program was an· ticipated, since it replaces the pro· gram which includes such traditional events as Madonna Night, the annual ceremony celebrating 
meal they miss, one dollar will go to the coalition. Mark Schafer and Carol Fredrick look on as their new recruits sign on the dotted ltne. 
GOODWILL 
nesday, and lifeguards at various beaches said Thursday was keeping pace. 
The Los Angeles school district shortened school days for students in rooms without air conditioning, while stores reported brisk business ofair conditioners and fans. 
Hundreds of transformers were knocked out by record electricity demand Wednesday as air con­ditioners were revved up, officials of the city Department of Water and Power and Southern California Edison said Thursday. 
Hawkes said 91,000 of Edison's 
3.25 million meters -or about 9.25 million people -had outages starting Tuesday afternoon. Edison had a record demand Wednesday of 15 million kilowatts. The old record had just been set Tuesday. 
The dry heat boosted the brush­fire danger throughout southern California, where four blazes, in­cluding one that charred 225 acres in Texas Canyon 40 miles north of downtown Los Angeles and three small ones in Orange County, kept firefighters busy Wednesday. 
The heat boosted the demand for ice, and Union Ice Co. in Hollywood was working double shifts. 
"The rest of the year, no one would give a nickel for this job," said chief engineer Don Winters in the 
16-degree  ice  plant. "Today  you  
could  sell  it  for  a  good  bit  of  
change."  

Mary and the sisterhood which exists between Saint Mary's women. 
"It was a tradition which had been outgrown and needed to be modified,"Hastings commented. "The new program was a huge suc­
cess, largely due to the commitment and enthusiasm of the orientation counselors. Those leaders did such an outstanding job-they were really wonderful." 
Hastings said that the official com­mitment of the orientation coun­selors ends at October break, when most freshmen "are over that initial 
homesickness of the first few months." Most orientation coun­selors, however, plan to contiue their involvement with their orien­tation group. 
"I'm trying to keep in touch with my group and plan activities with other groups and with similar groups at Notre Dame," said Cole­man. "The program's been such a success already that I want to con­tinue to be a part of my freshmen's lives, not just as a leader, but as a friend." 




Friday, September 7, 1984-page 4
The Observer 

Japan, South Korea begin friendly relations 
Associated Press Chun's visit engendered hunger strikes and sometimes violent 
Japan and South Korea moved clashes between students and police toward a new relationship yesterday in South Korea, and numerous with the historic visit of South demonstrations among leftists and 
Korean President Chun Doo-hwan Korean residents inJapan. and a statement ofcontrition by Em­The South Korean protesters say peror Hirohito for the "unfortunate Japan has not properly atoned for past" that has divided the two Asian past wrongdoings, that Tokyo is sup­neighbors. porting Chun's repressive policies 
Chun, the first Korean leader ever and that the trip promotes a military to visit the former colonial master of alliance among Japan, South Korea the Korean peninsula, arrived yes­and the United States. terday afternoon for a three-day visit Tokyo police said 8,400 leftists amid the tightest security measures 
rallied against the visit in nine Tokyo ever taken byJapanese police. locations Thursday, and eightSeveral hours after his arrival, 
people were arrested. 
Chun met privately with Prime Mini­

~-----:....~....:..._~~~~~.~"""'-~-' AP Photo 
South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan reviews heralded the three-day visit as marking a 'new begin­the honorguardatAkasakaPalace during u;elcoming ning' in the unhappy relations that havepersisted be­ceremonies yesterday in Tokyo. Both s•des have tween the two neighbors. Story at left. 
ster Yasuhiro Nakasone for 90 minutes. Foreign Ministry spokes­man Shiro Amaye said the Japanese leader praised South Korea both for its defense efforts and its attempts to initiate a dialogue with communist North Korea. 
But the climax of the day, and probably of the trip, came Thursday evening at a state banquet when Hirohito, 83, delivered an an­ticipated expression of regret for 
Japan's past domination of Korea. 
"It is indeed regrettable that there was an unfortunate past between us for a period in this century, and I 
believe  that  it  should  not  be  
repeated again," he said.  
Hirohito's  statement  stopped  
short  of  the  direct  apology  

demanded by many Koreans; who remain bitter about Japan's harsh colonial subjugation of the Korean peninsula from 1910 until 1945. 
Hirohito added that he hoped Chun's visit would further promote the "new-born relationship between our two countries." 
Hirohito, who became emperor in 1925, was regarded as a semi-divine ruler over Japan and its vassals until 1945 when World War II ended, al­though the military held actual 
power. He is now symbolic head of state. 
In his address, Chun said he had "listened solemnly" to the em­peror's remarks on the past, and said the "unfortunate past ... should be made to serve as the cuitivation ofan even closer relationship between Korea andJapan in the future." 
He too spoke of the "beginning of the new era ofpartnership." 

Center 
continuedfrom page 1 
ing an understanding of their 
marketable skills. 
"liberal arts skills are the essential 
marketable skills," says DePauw. In 
her opinion, conceptual problem­
solving, communication, and human 
relations are key in career success. 
The center's structure as a 
combined counseling and career 
center makes it a rarity in collegiate 
services, DePauw said. The same 
center that offers a liberal arts in­
ternship program offers an eating 
concerns group. 
DePauw says she is pleased with this rounded ·approach, and adds that her center hopes to challange the students "to look at the social justice implications of any career decision." She says it is a mistake to limit social justice to temporary volunteer programs. 
The center publishes their "Red­Topped" Bulletin monthly to an­nounce programs and provide other imponant information about its services. 

!Joo/8 
GPX men...... NORDICA 300.00 960 men................ 265.00 Trident ladies.............. 275.00 350 ladies............... 180.00 Scirrocco ladies............... 210.00 330 ladies............... 140.00 Nl340 men-ladies(New'84) ... 55.00 Pulsar men-ladies.......... 110.00 
ZRThermo men ....... LANGE 300.00 ZS Thermo men-ladies.......... 280.00 Z Pro men-ladies.......... 225.00 XL Sport men-ladies.......... 160.00 
SALOMON 295 00SX90E 
men.···· · SX60 =~es ...:::.~~ ::~:~~
EXR Atlas 00
ijJ;.~:"'····;~100· 
rltftll, a;:t 
99 RS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LOOK 150.00 99 Hp 135 00 
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 89 RX (New '84)................. 115.00 
49 RX. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . BS.OO 
747 (New '84).. . . . . . . SALOMON 135.00 
637....... ~ ..................... 105.00 
337............................ 89.95 
360 ................... TYROUA 130.00 280 ............................ 110.00 
190 


D.............. 
PRE.SEiSO."SUPiR".ClOTHING9SPiC~l~s.oo 
269.00 FP...... , .......... ROSSIGNOL 300.00 
239.00 SM ............................ 310.00 249.00 4-S (New '84)................... 30Q.OO 139.00 450 (New'84)................... 211l.oo 
139.00 5500.......................... 295.00 
129.00 812......................  K-2  295.00  
98 00  712  285 00  
.  · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·  ·  

89.00 4400 (New '84)................. 265.00 612 260 00
269.00 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .·. · ........ · 249.00 455 (New '84)................... 195.00 
179.00 05R. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ElAN 265.00 89.00 904 ........................... 205.00 
199.00 630 (New,'84).................. 255.00 530 (New 84)................... 195.00 
1~::: )IJ!IiorErjiJiplflelft Sn~~~r~~ADVANCED 
79 00 

' Alpina Bambino 7-11... BOOTS 36.00 Alpina Pioneer 12-4........... 60.00 Nordica 134 11-7........... , 65.00 
89.00 Alpina Jr. Comp 5·8 ........... 120.00 
110.00 . 

00 Elan K1d 70-90 em SKIS 39.00
89_ 

49 95 Elan 330 100-150 em.... 86.00 ' Rossignol Team Jr. 120-140 em. · · · 115.00 
109.00 Rossignol Team Jr. 150-160 em.... 125.00 
79.00 K-2 612 Team 135-170 em.... 145.00 
59.95 Pre 1200 Team.................. 160.00 
89.00 Salomon 126.......... BINDINGS 54.95 79.00 Salomon 137.................... 64.95 
29.00 Olin 730. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ~~~-~~ 
45.00  Tyrolia 280.............  .  
58.00  Scott Elite Pole..........  30.00  
98.00  Mount/Wax.... · . · ·. . . .  16.00  
30.00  PackagePrice 310.00  Retail 406.00  
49.00  PACKAGE 4  
99.00  INTERMEDIATE/ADVANCED  
109.00  Kneissl Blue Star Sportive.. 230.00  
109.00  Salomon 637........... 105.00  
129.00  Scott Performer.........  38.00  
45.00  Mount;Wax............  16.00  
52.00  Package  Retail 389.00  

199.00 215.00 269.00 169.00 
249.00 249.00 265.00 235.00 199 00
· 129.00 
159.00 129.00 
155.: Mount/Wax. . . . . . . . . . . . 16.00 
99. Package Retail 316.00 
PACKAGE 1 BEGINNER/INTERMEDIATE Elan 530............... 195.00 
Package Retail 321.00 
look 49 RX.............  85.00  
lMook Pto;wle..............  ~~.0000  
oun  ax.  · · · · · · · · · · ·  ·  

Price _
173 95PACKAGE 
2 
BEGINNER/INTERMEDIATEI El"t OO
Kneiss 1e............. 190. look 49 RX.. . . . . . . . . . . . 85.00 look Pole.............. 25.00 



to do what is within the law. We don't want to get sued," Kearny said. 
A study which Kearney com­pleted last September and presented to Library Director Robert Miller, the Library Administrative Commit­tee, and other administrative groups including the University Council spurred the changes. 
The new policy is not expected to interfere with normal use of the reserve book room. The teaching statl's reaction should not be 'exceedingly adverse' because the li­brary has been successful in the past obtaining permission from publish­ing companies to photocopy copyrighted materials, Kearny said. 
Stanford University and Penn State University have implemented similar policies as a result of the 1978law. 
The Library intends to keep one copy ofrequested materials on hand for every 10 to 1 5 students, but will not ask publishers for permission to make more than 1 0 copies ofa given work, although this permission is of­ten volunteered, Kearny said. 
Mrs. Reagan consoles teen about father 
Associated Press 
CANBY, Ore. -A 13-year-old girl taking part in a discussion on drugs Thursday with Nancy Reagan told the first lady that her father smokes marijuana "all the time," and received a few words of encourage­ment in private. 
Mrs. Reagan, who has been active in programs to fight drug abuse among young people, listened as some sixth-graders at William Knight Elementary School told her ofpeer pressure to smoke marijuana or drink alcohol. 
She also took part in a series of skits in which students pretended to be pressuring her to drink or take
to perform complex calcula~ the TI~SS~II even simpler, 
drugs.
tions-like definite integrals, and shows you how to use all 
During a discussion later with the

linear regression and hyper~ the power of the calculator. 
students, one girl told Mrs. Reagan bolics -at the touch of a Get to the answers faster. 
her father "smokes all the time." button. And it can also be Let a TI~SS~II ..lis 
Asked by Mrs. Reagan ifshe meant marijuana, the girl said yes. 
programmed to do repetitive show you how. 
V 
When Mrs. Reagan joined the stu­

problems without re~entering 
dents for a class picture a short time the entire formula. TEXAS later, she turned to the girl and 
The Observer Friday, September 7, 1984 -page 5 
Israeli political leaders make deal; to share power in new government 
Under the agreement, Peres will sacre of hundreds of Palestinians in
Assodated Press 
serve as prime minister for the first Lebanon by Israeli-allied Christian 25 months and then Shamir will take militias.
The leaders ofIsrael's two biggest over. Shamir and Peres will serve as "We are in complete agreementpolitical parties, seeking to end a six­foreign minister and deputy premier over the composition ofthe Cabinetweek stalemate, concluded all but under each other. and the division oflabor," Peres saidthe minor details of a power-sharing after the meeting. "What is left to beagreement yesterday and said they Labor will hold the defense done is to write down the guidelineshoped to install a new government portfolio for the entire term, while and the coalition agreement."
by the end of next week. all economy-related ministries will 
Labor Party leader Shimon Peres go to Likud. Shamir told reporters that pend­
ing party approval, he hoped a gov­and caretaker Prime Minister Former Defense Minister Ariel 

ernment could be presented to the

Yitzhak Shamir ofthe Iikud bloc said Sharon will serve as minister oftrade Knesset, or Parliament, next week.
they would have to meet again next and commerce and will be a mem­The agreement must be approved byweek to divide some of the minor ber of the inner Cabinet, Israel tele· both parties before Peres can pres­Cabinet posts in a bipartisan govern­vision reported. Sharon has been a ent his government to the Knesset.
ment. minister without portfolio in The two parties disagree on the
Negotiations on a government of Shamir's Cabinet since he lost the "national unity" have been dragging Defense Ministry post last year when future of Jewish settlements in the on for six weeks and the difficulties a commission of inquiry found him occupied West Bank and an Israeli presage the obstacles such a govern­indirectly responsible for the mas-peace initiative with jordan. ment may face. 
The ideologically opposed parties have not joined forces since former 
Reserve book room's 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin, a Iikud member, walked out of a bi­partisan government in 1970 in dis­
copying policy changes agreement over proposals to return parts of Israeli-occupied territories. 
However, Shamir said guidelines By ERIK HICKEY ing the photocopying of worked out between the two sides StaffReporter copyrighted materials, said Reserve ensure that the government would Book Department Head Ann Kearny. work smoothly. The Cabinet will A 1978 law restricting reproduc­As before, an article or a chapter have an inner forum of 10 members tion ofcopyrighted materials caused of a copyrighted manuscript may be where "some controversial issues the Memorial Library's reserve book copied and used for one semester, will be worked out," he said. room to change its policy concern-but continued use will generally re­
quire special permission. "We want 

What you need to tackle the higher mathematics of a science or engineering cur~ riculum are more functions ­more functions than a simple slide~rule calculator has. 
Enter the TI~SS~II, with 112 powerful functions. You 
can work faster and more Included is the Calculawr spoke quietly with her for a few
INSTRUMENTS
accurately with the TI~SS~II, Decision~Making Sourcebook. minutes.
Creating useful products 
The girl later told reporters that

because it's preprogrammed It makes the process of using 
and services for you. the first lady had told her to "stand hard and try to talk to my father." "I'll tell him that I talked to her 
(") 1981 Texas Instruments 

and that she said it's a better idea to stop smoking as soon as possible." 
~ ---~ ~­

The Observer Friday, September 7, 1984 -page 6 



Brazilian theologian faces doctrinal interrogation 
Associated Press 
Leonardo Boff, a Brazilian theolo­gian who faces doctrinal interroga­tion at the Vatican today, says he seeks simply to "take seriously" Popejohn Paul Il's call for the clergy to defend the poor. 
But Bofl's vision of liberation the­ology, which has questioned th.e au­thority of the hierarchy and condemned the status quo in Latin America, has drawn questions at a time when Rome is chastising some theologians for applying "Marxist concepts" to the poverty struggle in Latin America. 
"If there is punishment, I will ac­cept it, although not without sor­row," Boff said in a recent interview at the Franciscan monastery in Petropolis, a mountain city 40 miles north of Rio where he lives and teaches. "I prefer to go with the church, rather than to walk alone with my theology." 

Botl, 45, is a leading spokesman of liberation theology, a Latin Ameri­can movement born in the 1960s which preaches the liberating force of the Gospel against social oppres­sion and says the church should actively side with the poor. 
Critics charge that liberation the­ology endorses Marxism. Boff denies it, but says Marxist anaylsis is "instrumental" in discovering what makes poor people poor, and says Karl Marx is "typical of great spirits who seriously dedicated themselves to thinking and who unveiled new dimensions of reality." 
'Ibese new dimensions threaten 
to split the traditional, Rome­
centered church and the progres­

sive clergy in Brazil and other Third World countries. 
On Monday, the Vatican's Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine ofthe Faith, formerly in the Inquisitional Office, released a 35-page critique of liberation theology, explicitly rejecting Marxism as an instrument for analyzing social conditions. 
In reply, the Brazilian Bishops Conference, the ruling body of this country's strongly activist church, issued a terse statement urging a "close study" of Bofl's writings to "avoid errors about the healthy and legitimate liberation theology." 
"My summons to Rome ... is a global judgementofour church, that goes into the cellars of society and attends to the outcasts, the miserable and the poor," Buff said at 
a  news  conference  before  his  
departure.  
Ironically,  Buff  says  he  was  

strongly influenced in his graduate studies by West German Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger -the head of the Holy Congregation who will be his interrogator in Rome. 
Ratzinger has called liberation theology "a fundamental danger for the faith of the church" and criticized ideologies which "use Marxist analysis to interpret not only history and the life of society but also the very Bible and the Chris­tian message." 
Boff has written numerous arti­cles and 32 books. The last one, "Church: Charisma and Power," published in 1981 but not yet available in English, was condemned by an archdiocesan tribunal in Rio de janeiro and has now brought the summons to Rome. 
Vatican sees presence of Marxism in 'liberation theology' movement 
Associated Press 
In "liberation theology," Christ's words are wielded as a weapon to help the poor and oppressed. But the Vatican is growing increasingly uneasy over signs of Marxism in the movement. 
Earlier this week, the Vatican declared that the liberation theol­ogy preached by activist clergy in Latin America and elsewhere in the Third World is heavily influenced by the Marxist theory of "class struggle" -of poor against rich. The church must work "without being 'against' anyone," Pope John Paul II says. 
One of the movement's leading theorists, the Brazilian priest Rev. Leonardo Boff, has been summoned to Rome, and on Friday he will be questioned by the Roman Catholic Church's official watchdogs on doctrine, who will look for possible doctrinal errors in his writings. 
Liberation theology, born two decades ago in Latin America, has come to embrace many streams of contemporary religious thinking. At its center, however, is the applica­tion of]esus Christ's teachings to im­prove the lives ofthe downtrodden. 
"I discovered that poverty was something to be fought against," wrote the Rev. Gustavo Gutierrez, a Peruvian regarded as the father of liberation theology. ".. .It became crystal clear that in order to serve the poor, one had to move into poli­tical action." 
The action has included thousands of"base communities" in Latin America, the United States, the Philippines, Tanzania and other countries, groups of several dozen lay people who work to raise social awareness in conjunction with New Testament teaching, often through 
Keep Sclaool fi'O• Gettlag Boriag 
Put some excitement in your life. Visit Skyports Unlimited, Inc and learn to fly in just one hour. Be. come a Paraplaae Pilot, exper­ience the safety of a parachute and the freedom of flight of an Ultra­light. 
20 •ia•tee fro• ca•Pil• SKYSPORTS UNLIMITED. lac. Rotate 1 Tyler Road Walkertoa.IN :119-516-35M ....... 
:ll~IMS "­


instruction in reading and writing, in voting rights and similar areas. 
The activism has sometimes been militant. A legendary figure in the Latin American church is the Rev. Camillo Torres, a 37-year-old priest who took up arms, joined the rebels of his native Colombia and died in a shootout with the army in 1966. 
The Vatican, in a major report last Monday on the movement, used the term in the plural, referring to "theologies ofliberation." 
Apparently to show the sometimes imprecise nature ofwhat the movement includes, the report 
The book is a collection of 13 es­says that criticize what Boff calls the "authoritarianisn., dogmatism and concentration of power" in the Roman Catholic Church. Boff sug­gests this criticism was the real rea­son he was summoned to Rome. 
"The great fear that liberation theology provokes (among church leaders) . . . is not for resorting to Marxist analysis. It is for demanding that the church break its ties with the oppressors," he said in a pub­lished interview last week. 
Two other Buff books -"Jesus Christ Liberator," published in 1971, and "Eclesiogenese," pub­lished in 1977 · also drew questions from the Vatican. 
Uberation theology was born, Boff says, in the 1960s among middle-class university students "who became aware of the iniquity of the capitalist system for the over­whelming majority ofour people." 
In Brazil, the per capita income is $2,240, but two-thirds of the people survive on less than $1,500 a year. Millions live in slums known as "favelas" on the outskirts of big cities, usually without electricity and running water. There is no gov­ernment welfare or unemployment insurance, only a very basic and much-criticized national health ser· vice. 
Boff was born the southern Brazilian state of Santa Catarina. His father, an Italian immigrant and former Jesuit seminarian, encour­aged the family's 11 children to read, debate and meditate. Botfs brother, Clodovis, who has also written on liberation theology, wa-; recently suspended from a teaching post at the pontifical University of Rio de 
Janiero by Cardinal Eugenio de Araujo Sales. 

APPboto 
Chinese pilgrims and tourists during Wednesday's ofLeonardo Hoff, a Brazillan theologian who-backs general audience in St. Peter's square. Today the the controversial 'liberation theology' nowpopular in Vatican will be the site ofthe doctrinal interro?,ation Latin America. Story at left. 
added: "as with all movements of ideas, the 'theologies of liberation' present diverse theological posi­tions. Their doctrinal frontiers are badly defined." 
The Vatican report took pains to emphasize church concern for the poor and oppressed but criticized the link between liberation theology and Marxist revolutionary ideas. 
The Marxist theory of class struggle underlies liberation theol­ogy's aims of freeing the poor from wealthy landowners, military dic­tators and foreign capital interests, the Vatican said. 

WIN A TRIP TO DAYrONA, FLORIDA 
Drive the 1984 Dodge Daytona Turbo in Death-defying Race Course!! 
TEST YOUR DRMNG SKILLS 
Tuesday and Wednesday September 11 & 12 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Parking lot south ofND Stadium 
FREE OFCHARGE Need Student I.D. and Drivers License 
COME JOIN THE FUN 
SENIORS! 
Don't miss registration 
for 

Senior Informal 
Fri., Sept. 7 LaFortune Lobby 12:30-2 and 6-8 p.m. 
Saint Mary's Registration 4-8 p.m. LeMans Hall Limited number of Cabs and Bears tix at NO Registration only Cabs tix $3.50 
S~e you in Claicagoll 

A CHALLENGE. 
No one f:ver said delivering The Observer would be easy. It's a tough job, and we need a talented person to take on the challenge. If you would like to deliver The Observer on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. call Jeff at 239-7471. 

~-------~~ 


The Observer Friday, September 7, 1984-page 7 
Mondale not likely to gain from Reagan's Mideast failures 

.APPboto 

under the umbrellafor Barbara Roberts (right), a can­didatefor Oregon Treasurer, whogets wet while trying to clean herglasses. 
Associated Press 
When Secretary ofState George P. Shultz declared in a recent speech that "the tide of history is with us," he scarcely mentioned the Middle East while trumpeting what he said were the Reagan administration's foreign policy successes. 
When Vice President George Bush was asked by an Associated Press reporter on Wednesday to list 
President Reagan steps outofAirForce One atAndrewsAirForce Base, Md. Wednesday after a flightfrom Chicago. A seal on a stove vent broke during thejlight,forcing the pilot to drop altitude be­cause ofa loss ofpressure. 

usc 
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOLS COMMITTEE 
Become a representative of the Admissions Office to your High School over October or Christmas break. 
For applications and further informa­tion, stop by the Admissions Office, Room 113 Administration Building. 
AppUc:adoa deadllae. September 15 
the administration's foreign policy achievements, he claimed a half­dozen, including improvements in Central America and better relations with China and Pakistan. He didn't mention the Middle East. 
The omission is not surprising be­cause it was in the Middle East that the administration met with its most dramatic and visible foreign policy failures -the retreat from Lebanon after 264 Americans were killed, and 
.APPboto 
the shelving of President Reagan's 
1982 Arab-Israeli peace initiative. 
The administration had focused 
more attention on the Middle East 
than on any other area of the world ­
until the withdrawal from Lebanon. 
But if the Mideast setbacks cost 
Reagan significantly at the polls in 
November, it will be because voters 
conclude on their own that the ef­
fort wasn't worth the cost. 
Walter F. Mondale, the Demo­cratic presidential challenger, has given no indication he will try to elevate the setbacks into major cam­paign issues. 
Some debate is likely, however. Rep. Geraldine Ferraro, the Demo­cratic vice presidential candidate, said in Portland, Ore., Wednesday that in situations such as Lebanon, "Let's send in the diplomats before the Marines." 
She said the U.S. mission in Lebanon was never adequately ex­plained and called the death of U.S. servicemen "an outrage." 
Aides to Mondale say he will criticize some aspects of Reagan's Mideast policy, particularly the timing and execution. 
But Mondale would be hard­pressed to unload on Reagan for events in Lebanon because Mondale generally favored U.S. actions there. Additionally, Israel favored the American involvement, and Mondale is as anxious as Reagan to showcase his pro-Israeli credentials. 
Mondale didn't like Reagan's Mideast peace initiative, but will be restrained in his criticism by the real possibility that a new Israeli govern­ment might show interest. He wouldn't want to be out of step on such a key issue. 
Reagan hardly mentions the Middle East in his speeches, al­though he did claim in a speech to B'nai B'rith on Thursday that there is "far greater cause for hope" of a Mideast peace now than there was 
he took offic while ack­

nowledging a permament peace still is not at hand. But Lebanon could cast a shadow over Reagan's campaign. 
The total American dead there far exceeded the number of U.S. sol­diers killed in hostile situations during the Carter administration. 
Although Reagan had said those responsible for the attack on the Marine headquarters "must be dealt justice -and they will be," there never was any direct American retaliation. Neither was there retaliation for the bombing of the 
nBut if the Mideast setbacks cost Reagan significantly at the polls. it will be because voters con­clude on their own that the effort wasn't worth the cost." 
U.S. Embassy in Beirut on April 18, 1983 that killed 63 persons, includ­ing 1 7 Americans. 
Reagan's Mideast peace initiative, unveiled with fanfare on Sept. 1, 1982, was shelved after both Israel and jordan rejected it. The plan called for Jordan to join Israel in peace talks aimed at creating self­government for Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and GazaStrip. 
Mondale has faulted the initiative 
rael-departure from the 1978 Camp 
David peace accords forged by the 
Carter administration. He feels that 
Reagan blundered by not moving 
quickly upon taking office to follow 
up on the progress already achieved 
under Camp David. 
Since the Middle East setbacks, 

Reagan has taken an unambiguously 
pro-Israeli position on most issues. 
Even where there are disagree­
ments, such as over Israeli settle· 
ments in occupied Arab lands, the 
relationship With Israel is sure to 
remain intact and most likely will 
thrive. It's a virtual certainty either 
man would ask Congress to approve 
more money, beyond the $2.6 bil­
lion Israel already is likely to receive 
in fiscal 1985, to help Israel out ofits 
horrendous economic problems, in­
cluding an inflation rate of more 
than 400 percent. 
Israeli government leaders seem comfortable with Reagan and satisfied with the present state of U.S.-Israeli relations, in spite ofsome bumpy beginnings. They are partie· ularly pleased by the start ofa strate­gic U.S.-Israeli military relationship, which Mondale also supports. 
There are differences in the posi­tions ofthe two candidates. Mondale says he would move the U.S. Em­bassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, a move opposed by the administra· tion. He also says he wouldn't sell AWACS and other sophisticated arms to moderate Arab nations as the administration has done. 
Both Reagan and Mondale would be expected to push anew for a las­ting Arab-Israeli peace -with Reagan reviving his initiative and Mondale favoring the more ambiguous negotiations envisioned in the Camp David accords. Neither would ap­pear to want to get extensively in· volved in Lebanon, barring some unseen and dramatic improvement. 
Mondale also has no apparent major differences with Reagan on shipping. 

'tYPING 
•Term Papers •Resumes 
Letters •Manuscripts 
•Word Processing 
CaD Chris At: 
234-8997 

While Democratic presidential candidate Walter Mondale checks his notes, running mate Geraldine Ferraro holds the umbrella during a rainy rally Wed­nesday in Portland, Oregon. There isn't enousb room 

112 MILE SOUTH OF UNIV. PARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 
This Saturday 
PITCHERS BEER 



$2.50 
Large Screen T.V. ND v.s. PURDUE Hot dogs soc: 
DOORS OPEN 11:30 

Are you ARMED? 
With a keen insight and a talent for cartooning? 
If so, Viewpoint is looking for Editorial Cartoonists. 
If you are interested, call Dave Grote at : 
239-5323 

ViewRoint 
-~ 

52 


Showcase 
Friday, September 7, 1984 -page 8 

Letters to a lonely God 
A Catholic university? 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 
E
very year, somebody nice, or not so nice, decides to write an article or term paper asking the question: "Is Notre Dame still Cath­olic?" One could answer, "By whose standards?" but that would seem evasive. Notre Dame is not Catholic now in the way it was Catholic in 1944; however, the Catholic Church isn't Catholic the way it was in 1944. Yet the 1944 model ofCatholicism is the only model a few highly conservative Catholics appreciate. In 1944, the Church was still closed in like a ghetto, defending itself against the Protestants. In 1959, a jolly, fat pope proposed opening the win­dows ofthe Church, letting in the fresh winds ofchange and updating. The word "Catholic" has implied something less narrow and monolit­hic ever since. 
I am not a theologian or a flaming liberal. I was ordained in 1954, and lived very comfortably inside the ghetto; as a priest, I felt safe and privileged there. I've done my share ofresisting the changes, and I still get confused by the viewpoints of young priests. I've learned to live with the fact that there are different styles ofbeing Catholic. That doesn't mean you can believe just anything and still be credible as a practitioner ofthe religion. As a communion ofbelievers accepting Christ as the Lord, we still have standards. Creeds, sacraments, and commandments are important. I'm not free to do my own thing, or ignore the pope. Two Scriptural insights keep me reasonably tolerant: the first is what Christ said: "I have other sheep that are not of this fold." The second is from St. Paul: "We see truth darkly, as though in a mirror." 
The wordstyle is not a theologi­cal term; it's a way ofdescribing the differences among believers. Some Christians, talking about faith, keep their Bibles in hand, willing and able to cite chapter and verse. Some place their trust in the intercessions of Mary; Lourdes and Fatima, for them, were more grace-filled events than the Sermon on the Mount. Some pay a lot ofattention to the charismatic experiences, like speak­ing in tongues. Some become pas­sionate about the liberation ofthe poor. Some need orthodoxy as it was defended in the six centuries between St. Thomas Aquinas and Vatican I. Some act as though all theology handed down from the time of the Fathers until Vatican II were pious legends. Some, hearing a weather report from the Vatican, seem willing to defend it as a defini­tion ex cathedra offaith and morals. Some are willing to subscribe to anything, as long as they can seem liberal, and contradict the pope. Perhaps they kid themselves in thinking they're not on the way to becoming dropouts, but who am I to judge? Many, belonging to the mainstream, try to sew all ofit, or part ofit, into a seamless garment: the Bible, the Holy Spirit, papal authority, social activism, the rituals and beliefofthe tradition. Others, not sure who they are, are haunted by ghosts from their school days with the nuns, because doubt too is part ofthe Catholic experience. 

Ifyou ask, is Notre Dame still Catholic? I would like to know, from whose point ofview? A Bibli­cal fundamentalist would deny that this campus knows Christ. Some conservatives see liberals as the enemies inside the camp, poisoning the well. Once, back East, I heard a seminary teacher wishing that the old-fashioned pastors could be flushed down the toilet. A charis­matic might consider the rest ofus only half alive to grace. An inner city worker may feel that the Es­tablishment keeps missing the point ofChristianity. 
At Notre Dame, Catholics differ­ing in style get along pretty well. I receive the Eucharist at Mass, along with a nun, a seminarian, and a group ofstudents. The nun, passing the tabernacle, genuflects; the seminarian bows his head; many of the students do neither. Which of us believes in the Real Presence? Probably all ofus. Which of us believes in the doctrine of tran­substantiation? Ifthe Church insists on this doctrine as the exclusive way ofdescribing what happens to bread and wine at Mass, I hope all of us believe in transubstantiation. Is it an article offaith, or are there other explanations of the Real Presence Catholics can be comfortable with? From what I read, theologians think there are differing ways ofconsider­ing the mystery. Is Notre Dame Catholic? It is profoundly and 
gloriously Catholic, though the 
question seems dumb, like asking a 
soldier whether war is hell. 1 spend 
my life being selfconsciously Cath­
olic, dealing with other Catholics 
who know who they are. We don't 
necessarily agree on the nature of 
sacraments. 
Ifyou're going to ask if Notre Dame is Catholic, you'd better understand what it means to be Catholic as the Church is Catholic. Catholic includes ancient, modern, and future worlds beyond the im­aginings of the Baltimore catechism with its simple questions. Martin Luther and Hans Kung are Catholic, as much as you may regret them. The "Syllabus ofErrors" was Catho­lic, though ifyou were familiar with it, it could embarrass you. James Joyce's "Ulysses" is as Catholic as the cathedral at Chartres, though it parodies Holy Ireland. The European theologians with tough sounding names borrow philosophical systems from thinkers who claim God is dead, as a way of freshening Catholic dogmas. The Berrigans protesting Vietnam were Catholic witnesses. Graham Greene's whiskey priest who was impure with a woman was a Catho­lic saint. Catholic poets, like St. Francis and Gerard Manley Hop­kins, have celebrated the physical universe, showplace ofGod's shining glory, as a sacrament of Christ, Who redeemed the world into Catholic grace. "Catholic" is not just a local watchword of tribal loyalty describing students making the way ofthe cross. 
Can I write the article asking if Notre Dame is Catholic, though I'm not an expert on religion? Ofcourse I can write it, if I have the humility to recognize my limitation..'i as an observer. One ofthe mistakes of believers is to make God and the Church as small as themselves, as though Christianity had no tradition or history it would be helpful to know about. 
Please notice ifI'm smiling, pardner, if, after two semesters of theology, I start insisting this school isn't Catholic. I'd be naive to volun­teer to serve as grand inquisitor. It would be smarter to question the structural soundness of the Empire State Building from my experience in industrial design class, where we studied the layout ofa McDonald's stand. 
,.,. tt•._ I· •11 t--1 l1 , ••• 

•ART 
The exhibition "Andre Kertesz: Form and Feeling," which began on August 26, continues at the Snite Museum and will continue through Oct. 20. There are 88 photographs in this retrospective collection spanning the years 1914-1972. The display is on loan from the Hallmark Photographic Collection and is touring the nation. Hours at the Museum are I 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday; 1 to 4 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday 
evenings from 4 to 8 p.m. 
Opening Sunday in the Women's Art League Gallery of the Art Center, ( 120 So. St. Joseph St., South Bend) is an exhibit ofmixed media work by Carol Ann Carter entitled "For My Mother: From Nigeria." This exhibit will feature recent work done by Ms. Carter, associate professor ofart at Saint Mary's College, while on sabbatical in South Africa this year. The exhibit will begin at noon. 
•TIIEATRE 
Ifby chance you didn't get a Purdue ticket but are still interested in a road trip and some memorable entertainment, you might want to venture to Merrillv lle, Indiana where Rich Little and AnnJillian will be performing at the Holiday Star Theatre. Performances will be tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 7:30p.m. and ticket prfce is 
$14.95. For more information call 769-6600. 

Tired of the old routine? 
Join 
The Features Department is accepting applications for: 
• Features copy editor e Features layout staff 
Applications are due by Tuesday, Sept. 11 For more infol'lllation contact Mary Healy at the Obaen~er office, 239·5313 


'Tightrope' is all Eastwood, but the act is getting old 
by Paul Cimino 
features staffwriter 
I 
didn't get to see "Sudden Im­pact" or "Firefox," but I've always been a Clint Eastwood fan and when "Tightrope" came along 1 decided that it was about time I got to see one of Clint's newer films. It was not one of my better decisions. 
"Tightrope" stars Eastwood as a New Orleans detective named W es Block who is investigating a plague ofbrutal rape-murders. That's a quick overview-underneath, there are a number ofother stories going on at the same time. 
Block has been having problems with his wife for some time. She finally moves out and hooks up with a well-to-do type, leaving Block to take care oftheir two daughters, Amanda {played by Alison Eastwood) and Penny Uennifer Beck). Block's work demands that he be on call 24 hours a day, and as such, the kids see more oftheir babysitter than him. In any event they still greatly favor Block to their mother. 

Block has another problem. He craves sex and spends much of his time after dinner wandering the streets of the famous French Quar­ter in search ofnew experiences. He finds a numerous assortment of them (hence the film'sR rating). 
As the story develops, night by night, women whom Block had recently "been" with are systemati­cally murdered. Block feels it is his responsibility to solve the mystery. He also feels threatened by the murderer and realizes that he is unintentionally endangering his family and his newest girlfriend, Beryl Thibodeaux, (Genevieve Bujold) who runs the local rape clinic. After consulting with her on the rape-murders, Block cannot help but fall in love with her. She proves to be invaluable in helping Block solve the case and straighten out his life. 
In critiquing this movie, let me first say that die-hard Eastwood fans will enjoy this film from the start. Eastwood is his usual self; a rough looking character with an almost unchanging facial expression which he effectively uses to convey his inner turmoil. The act, however, is getting old. 
We also get a few glimpses of Clint in a father role. It is difficult to adjust to this notion because he is usually stereotyped as .a rough cowboy or the famous cop "Dirty Harry" Calahan. The film is in all 
aspects, a totally Eastwood film. He 
makes the movie, and what good 
that is in the film can be attributed 
to no one but him. 
Bujold is unconvincing in her minor role. She makes appearances only from time to time and when she does show up, plays a character with no apparent feeling. Her slight accent (it sounds Russian) further detracts from her character. Al­though she is a great help to Block, we really could have done without her. 
The only other characters deserv­ing ofany mention are Block's children. Alison Eastwood and Jennifer Beck are very believable and create a welcome contrast to Clint's nocturnal meanderings. Alison is in fact our hero's real-life daughter and makes her screen debut in "Tighttope." 
The movie on the whole leaves much to be desired. It was mostly filmed at night and is inundated with a shadowy feeling which becomes depressing. Further, it has no real storyline or build-up in the plot before the last half hour. Block walks the streets by night and has his fun; another girl gets killed; he goesto the scene ofthe crime and gets filled in; there is a short daylight scene; and then everything starts all over again. By the middle of the movie, this becomes ex­tremely banal. {It was at this point that I noticed two ofmy com­panions were sleeping rather soundly.) 
On the whole, "Tightrope" is not one ofEastwood's better efforts, especially considering that he also produced the film. 
My advice would be to save your money and buy someone a little gift. You will undoubtedly get a better feeling and more satisfaction than from this movie. 




A calmer Faust heads into his fourth season 
After three disappointing years, the Irish coach is learning to deal with the pressures of his job 

The Game Plan·Talented Irish could make life miserable for outmatched 
By LARRY BURKE 
Gerry Faust 
Sports Writer 
Irish head coach 
Gerry Faust is through talking. 
He has endured all the ups and downs that the 1983 season produced. He has heard all the rumors, survived the negative publicity and listened to the grumbling ofdisappointed fans. Most ofall, he's lasted through the intense pressure that has been building over the past three years. 
Better change that last part toalleged pressure. How's that? Well, as much as it may surprise some people, Irish 
head coach Gerry Faust is as calm and relaxed as ever ­just the way a head coach should be. And he is well aware of the truth of the old saying -"Talk is cheap." 
"The important thing," says Faust, "is that talk and goals and all that doesn't really mean much ifyou don't go out and play sixty minutes offootball." 
And what was that about pressure? 
"I'm probably more relaxed than I've been since I've been here," says the Irish coach, "because now we've got things going the way I want them going. It took three years to build the foundation, and we've got that completed now. I think things are starting to roll the way I want them to." 
No one knows better than Faust, however, what a tough three years it has been. High hopes ofbig bowl games, unbeaten seasons, and national championships that he had back in 1981 turned into the disappointing reality of three rollercoaster seasons and a combined record of 18-15-1. 
"It's been frustrating to both the players and the coaches not to finish with a better record the last three years," says Faust. "But I've always had a philosophy 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
In most people's minds, the most difficult aspect ofthe Purdue game for Notre Dame will be getting the 145 busloads ofstudents to arrive to the Hoosier Dome Saturday before the 12:30 p.m. start. 
However, even after last season's 52-6 mauling of the Boilermakers, Head Coach Gerry Faust is preaching caution about the 1984 Purdue squad. 
"Purdue is a heck ofa team," Faust says. "Any team that gains over 400 total yards against you is a pretty good offensive team. I'd also like to see a football team that can win and has seven turnovers in a game. This is a new year, we're not playing a game last year, and I'm sure Purdue feels the same way." 
The Boilers return 3 7 lettermen, but lost half of their starters from last season. Many players got the chance to play in '83, but, many still lack game experience. 
Purdue's offense against Notre Dame's defense: 
The Irish defense, apparently the only aspect of the Notre Dame attack which has a weakness, could suffer if the newcomers in the secondary unravel. 
Defensive coordinator Andy Christoff has implemented an attacking defense, which could make the Irish vulnerable to giving up the big play, a problem Notre Dame suffered last season, in addition to giving up short gains. 
"We will be looking to make more big plays on defense ourselves," Christoff says. 
With five players available to fill the three line posi­tions, the Irish should have no problem controlling the line ofscrimmage. Add the talent ofNotre Dame's hard-hitting linebackers, and domination is a possibility. 
Purdue does have experience on its offensive line, but you won't see the names of the linemen dotting all­America lists. Even though Purdue's line averages 6-2, 264 pounds, expect to see Irish blue in the Boiler backfield. 
Of Purdue's seven offensive starters gone from 1983, five of them were in the skill positions. Purdue was wiped out in the backfield, losing its three leading ground gainers. Rodney Carter, who saw limited action last 
• Boilers if they are able to avoid giving up the big play 
Where the rest ofthe Purdue ground attack will come from is uncertain, but Purdue Head Coach Leon Burtnett has confidence in his team's running game. 
The Purdue backfield can catch the ball, though. Look for the Boilers to throw to their running backs, especially in the direction ofRobert Banks, who steps into the injured Mike Larkin's line backing position. 
Ifthere is a way Purdue will be able to move the football, it will be through the air. The only question will be who is going to be throwing the ball. Scott Campbell, latest in the line of Purdue phenom quarterbacks, is gone. 
"We're down to two quarterbacks," says Burtnett, who is waiting until Saturday to announce the starter. "It's now betweenJim Everett and Doug Downing, and neither one has stepped forward with the consistency to start. We're concerned with which one ofthose can get us into the end zone." 
Everett, a junior with limited game experience, should get the nod over the freshman Downing. 
Jeff Price and Steve Griffin, Purdue's first-and third­leading receivers in 1983, return at wide receiver and flanker, respectively. Last season's backup tight end, Marty Scott also is back. 
Faust does admit the Irish defensive weakness is in the secondary. "We are inexperienced as a whole," Faust says. "But our DB's have been working very well together. It's hard to judge how good they're going to be until they go up against an opponent." 
Purdue's offense may have averaged over 400 yards total offense last season, but on Saturday, expect it to move slower than rush-hour traffic on the Loop. 
Notre Dame'~ offense against Purdue's defense: 
Although the Purdue defense returns seven starters and several lettermen, the Boilers' lack the talent on the defensive unit to contend with the powerful Irish offense. 
Purdue's defense is highly suspect at linebacker, with two oflast season's regulars departing the scene. Kevin Sumlin, the leading tackler for the Boilers in 1983, is the only returning linebacker. 
Three ofthe front five also graduated, and the lack of game experience of the replacements might be a big factor against Notre Dame's formidable offensive line. 
that there's a reason for everything. As many times as 
the ball has bounced against us, our turn will come 
when it'll bounce our way. I think we started to see 
that happen in the Liberty Bowl." 
Ah, the Uberty Bowl. That was Notre Dame's first venture into post-season play under Faust, and while the Irish didn't exactly run rings around the Eagles of Boston College (frozen turf and twelve-degree temperatures made any kind of running difficult) Faust's team accomplished something that they hadn't done in the entire 1983 season-namely, beat a ranked team with a winning record. Notre Dame also avoided losing the final game ofthe season for the first time since 1979. More importantly, the Irish displayed a dominant running game that starred tailback Allen Pinkett ( 11 I yards on 28 carries) and fullback Chris Smith ( 104 yards on 18 carries), as well as a gutsy defense that stopped the Eagles when the game was on the line. 
As tough as the Irish were against BC, Faust believes that the best is yet to come. 
"We were a better football team this spring than we were after the Boston College game," says Faust. "I thought we were a good football team against BC, but I thought that by the end of the spring we had improved even more. Our goal was to get better than we were in the spring for the Purdue game, and we won't know that until game day." 
But Faust does know that there is a lot to be exited about as far as his 1984 squad is concerned. 
"The young men came back this summer in top shape," says the Irish coach, "and they've worked awfully hard. They really have a closeness that I think 
see FAUST, page 10 
Smith, and Notre Dame should score even more than the 33 points that the Purdue defense gave up per game last season. 
The Purdue secondary is the highlight of the defensive unit, returning three offour players, including free safety Ron Woodson, who drew all-America mention as a freshman. 
The other Boiler defensive backs will have their hands 
see GAME, page 11 
•
Leon Burtnett 

season after starting at fullback in 1982, has moved to Combine the raw power of the Irish offensive line with tailback. the strength and <:JUickness ofAllen Pinkett and Chris Purdue head coach 

PURDUEDsbXfra september 7. 1984-page 1o
l F 


A new coach, a new formation 
Irish defense has new look this year thanks to Andy Christoff 
n 
Ir 
1 
~ 
By ED DOMANSKY and four linebackers, one of the slipped to 29th 133.9 yards a "We believe that we have enough Sports Writer linebackers may then become a game). Substantial improvement depth to keep our people fresh so down lineman based on a call was seen in the pass defense which that ifat any time during the game When the 1984 version of the within the defense. This then climbed 46 notches from the previ­we need a burst offreshness, we Notre Dame football defense takes creates a 4-3 alignment and ous season by knocking 36 yards off can get it." the field Saturday in the In­eliminates tendencies that may be the 1982 average. dianapolis Hoosier Dome, a new picked up by the offense on the line This season, Christoffis putting The Irish defensive unit is young 
defensive alignment will confront ofscrimmage. statistics aside and working on two and inexperienced in some places
( 

the Boilermakers ofPurdue. "We can create the same prob­major areas that should greatly aid because ofthe losses ofsuch key
.( 
The Irish will implement a 3-4 lems for blocking schemes out ofa the performance of the defensive individuals as jon Autry, Rick 
L 

( defense, which features three 3-4 by just designating one of our corps. Naylor, Stacey Toran and Chris ( lineman and four linebackers. four linebackers to be a down "I think statistics are misleading a Brown, but Christoff is optimistic Defensive guidance for the l 984 lineman," says Christoff. "That lot oftimes. You can have very that all will run smoothly.
c 

( campaign rests with Aridy Christoff. creates confusion for the offense good statistics and not accomplish "The positions with experience .( He brings his coaching skills to because they don't know which what you want to accomplish," he should help make up 
,, 
Notre Dame for his first season as linebacker will become a down says. "We're trying to emphasize for the inexperience," defensive coordinator. lineman or which three will be pursuit ofthe football with reckless he says. "We will cer­
·l 

I. Christoffarrived in February after involved in the pass coverage until abandon and maintaining a sound tainly get stronger as 
{ a year as defensive coordinator at the snap ofthe ball. With the perimeter. We believe that most big the year goes on." ( Stanford and six years at Oregon -linebacker doing this (becoming a plays come on the perimeter, which The recent loss ofoutside 
f. four as defensive coordinator and down lineman), he gains more involves the outside linebackers linebacker Mike Larkin for six to two as linebacker coach. freedom (than in 5-2) and we can and the secondary. We're working eight weeks will take away some While at Stanford, Christoff be more aggressive." very hard in all ofour defenses to speed and quickness, but depth at
~ 
helped to raise the Cardinal from In the past two seasons the Irish be consistent in these areas." the position is a plus for the Irish. ,( last to first in pass defense, and from defense has finished the year In addition, the Irish defense will As for Purdue, Christoff is prepar­
I . tenth to sixth in total defense. looking quite impressive on paper feature fewer blitzes and stunts than ing his unit for just about anything. ( For Notre Dame, the change from although not quite as impressive on in previous previous seasons. "In the first game, you don't know .( last season's 5-2 set-up is a subtle the field because ofoccasional "These tend to open you up to the what a team will run based on the c one, but the versatility and aggres­lapses that often provided oppo­big play," Christoffexplains. previous season. They may have 
changed in the spring or in the fall 

~-
siveness that the 3-4 allows will nents with a key break make possible a more intense de­In the stat book, the 1982 "Gold Depth will also be considered a camp, so we must be prepared for fensive attack. Rush" ranked tenth in the nation in key component in this season's everything that they might do. "Ifyou're in a basic 5-2 align­total defense allowing just 283.9 Notre Dame defense. Starters like "Based on what we do know from ment, you're more predictable than yards per game. Even more impres­Mike Gann, Tony Furjanic and joe last year, though, Purdue has the 
( 

in a 3-4," explains Christoff. sive was the meager 95.5 yards per johnson are very talented, but versatility of both the run and the 
( 

"They're both essentially the same game rushing allowance which put Christoff feels that more than just pass, so we must be prepared to alignment. The difference is just the Irish in eighth position among the starters will play a role in many stop them both."
f l philosophical, but the 3-4 gives you all Division I-A schools. Covering games. The alignment will be a 3-4. l ~# a combination ofseven people the pass, however, proved to be "Rather than going the whole Aggressiveness and versatility will ( interchangable, whereas with the more ofa problem as Notre Dame game with just eleven players, we be featured. But only the regular 
~ 
5-2, you're more locked in." ranked a distant 60th allowing should be able to play with about season will determine how well it More specifically, the 3-4 defense 188.5 yards a game. 16-18 players on defense," he says. all goes together.
( Andy Christoff 
will add an extra dimension of In 1983, NO's 286.7 yards per ·~ uncertainty with which the oppos­game average was good enough for ( ND def. coordinator ing offensive unit must deal. 14th place in the total defense 
In utilizing the three-man front category. The rushing defense
.( 
( 
,( .( 


( • • Faust
continued from page 9 • 
is important. They're doing things that I have been working to try to ofhis own recruits. This gives the
~· 

well, and we're still getting better. get in our football program, and I Irish an edge, primarily because
f. 

"We have good senior leadership, think we have it now." Faust is an outstanding evaluator of
/ 

which I think is very important in a The new attitude is just the high school talent.
.{ 

football team every year. We have a beginning, however, according to "We've recruited the kind of
( 

lot ofseniors and upperclassmen Faust. He knows that a successful people that can play the style of
.( 

playing, and the players have a great 1984 can only mean hope for an offense and defense that we want to
I continued from
attitude." even brighter future for the Fight­play," says Faust. "A lot ofthe young
I 

The team's attitude was some­ing Irish. players have been in the system a full containing Stev1
( 

( thing that was held in question last "I've been looking forward to this few years, which is a very important Irish receivers led b ( year, especially after the Irish lost season since the Liberty Bowl," says thing. I think I feel more com­)ack.<>on. Offensive< ( their last three regular season the Irish coach. "And from now on, fortable, personally, with the mixing running and 
games by a grand total often points. I think as long as we keep recruiting people that we've recruited be­secondary from thil ~' But 1984 will be a different story, well in years to come, and keep cause they've come here because "Our defensive u ( according to Faust. building upon the program we have it's Notre Dame and because we've because we are mw ( "Attitude-wise, I don't think now, I think we're going to really be recruited them, and that's helped Burtnett states. "We / there's any comparison between solid." out a lot. We have recruited for at this time last yea.t 
~ 
the attitude ofour football team Because this is his fourth season reasons ofthe style ofoffense and The only way PUI now and any ofthe past three as head coach at Notre Dame, this defense that we want to play, plus Dame on the scoret i years," says Faust. "I think that the year will be the first that Faust is positions -we've missed in a couple zone is theirs. ( attitude we have now is the attitude coaching a team comprised entirely spots, depth-wise -but I think The kicking gar 
there's a big difference." Both Purdue and Alot ofNotre Dame fans might their kicking depar1 disagree, saying that 1984 will more successful in l
} l 
( 

undoubtedly be as big a disappoint­Mike Viracola wil 
( 

ment as the past three years. While punted twice agaim 
( 

Gerry Faust's Coaching Record 
Faust could let this attitude bother exited the playing ti 
( 

him, he is instead resigned to the the Hoosier Dome~ 
( 

reality that he cannot change the did last season in W
Year Record 
( 

opinion ofthe fans-right now, that John Carney will 
{ 

is. kickoffs.
1981 5-6-0
( 

"I'm not going to try and sell the The Irish usually 
1982 6-4·1
r 
fans," says Faust. "They can feel ofthe freshmen usu 
how they want to feel, think what Purdue's specialt
1983 7-5-0
( 

they want to think. That's their guilty ofallowing tl:
Total 18-15-1
{ 

business. I think that all the talk is especially on punt r done, so there's no sense talking. All "At this time last·
f 

I'm concerned about is how they with 20 players for:
( 

feel at the end of the season, not year we stopped at 
( 

how they feel before the season. I Mike Rendina, wl
( 

couldn't care less about what before transferring
Number of Faust Recruits 
r 

people think before the season. I will be in charge of
( 

want them to see what they think at handle punts.
f 

the end ofthe season, that's when it The keys to the
( 

Year No. 
counts. The key to the ga 
.I 

"Optimism, or talking, doesn't avoid giving up the
.( 

prove anything. It's how the season "With the speed c
1981 25
I 

goes, what the players do with the big play will be a ke
·I 

1982 23 
season, what they do with the wins enced in the secom
.( 

1983 28 
on the scoreboard, that's what Ifthe Irish can av
( 

really counts." problem. Few team
1984 17
r 

Bring on the Boilermakers. Purdue, can match 
~ 
I 
r 
I 
·I 
I I ( 




PURDUE September 7. 1984 • page 11
lnsll Extra 
Mike Kelley Irish center 
~enough 
~fresh so the game ess, we 
1t is young ne places uch key R.ick 
Chris )timistic 

/
perience 
ide or six to 1ysome depth at he Irish. fis prepar­anything. n't know don the ty have 1n the fall )ared for 1t do. know from has the t and the rredto 
1 3-4. tility will regular w well it 
• • • Game 

continued from page 9 
full containing Steve Beuerlein and the slew oftalented Irish receivers led by Alvin Miller, joe Howard and Milt jackson.·Offensive coordinator Ron Hudson will be mixing running and passing plays, just to keep the Purdue secondary from thinking run too often. 
"Our defensive unit is far superior to what it was because we are much faster and much stronger up front," Burtnett states. "We're a year older, at least, than we were at this time last year. 
The only way Purdue will be able to threaten Notre Dame on the scoreboard is if the Irish forget which end zone is theirs. 
1be kicking game and specialty teams: 
Both Purdue and Notre Dame suffered big losses in their kicking departments, but the Irish apparently were more successful in finding replacements. 
Mike Viracola will handle punts for the Irish. Viracola punted twice against Purdue last year, long after Blair K.iel exited the playing field. Viracola will have no problem in the Hoosier Dome with the wind affecting his punts, as it did last season in West Lafayette. 
john Carney will be in charge ofplacekicking and kickoffs. The Irish usually have solid specialty teams, with some of the freshmen usually grabbing the limelight. 
Purdue's specialty teams, on the other hand, were guilty ofallowing the opponent very good field position, especially on punt returns. 
"At this time last year we had a hard time coming up with 20 players for special teams," notes Burtnett. "This ~ year we stopped at 45 players who we think are the best." ~-.··..·.·.·•• Mike Rendina, who formerly played for Florida St. 
~ before transferring to Purdue by way of junior college, 
i.·.•~.,.:... ::~:~ ~nu~~:rge ofplacekicking and Brian Thornson will 
1be keys to the game: The key to the game will be Notre Dame's ability to . . avoid giving up the big play. "With the speed of their wide-outs, not giving up the ~ big play will be a key, especially since we're inexperi­enced in the secondary," agrees Faust. 
Ifthe Irish can avoid the big play, they should have no problem. Few teams in the country, and especially not Purdue, can match Notre Dame's power. 
The center of attention 
Mike Kelley may never be a household word, but the ND backfield knows his true value 
ByJOE BRUNEm guys I go against are usually 6-2 or 6-3," he explains. Sports Writer "It's hard to get underneath them, but my quickness \ helps me get offon the noseguard a lot quicker." 
In football the offensive line is a job without glory. Playing football in a blue and gold uniform for Notre Lineman receive little or no recognition. You'll almost Dame has been a dream come true for the Massachu­never see a lineman's name on the headline of the setts resident. When it came to choosing between a sports page. Yet they do the dirty work for the scholarship to Boston College or Notre Dame there offensive backs. Without the help ofoffensive linemen, was never really any choice to be made. It was Notre guys like joe Montana and John Riggins would have Dame all the way. never accomplished what they have. "When I was a kid, Notre Dame was always on 1V 
This aspect may bother some lineman, but Notre and as I grew older I wanted to play football for Notre center Mike Kelley doesn't mind the lack of Dame," says Kelley. "It was between BC and here, and attention his position receives. Notre Dame was an easy choice for me." 
"It doesn't bother me to play center as long as I Uke his roommate, linebacker Mike Golic, he feels knqw I'm doing my job and giving 100 percent," says the highlight ofhis college football career was last Kelley. "IfAllen Pinkett goes out and rushes for 1300 year's 27-6 trouncing ofUSC in green jerseys. The yards and I know I was a part of that, it makes me three-time monogram winner feels that a victory over happy." the Trojans in Los Angeles this year will be an even 
The 266-pound senior played mostly tackle and better remembrance ofhis college career. 
some guard throughout high school and his first two "After this year I hope that the biggest thrill will be years under the Dome. As a sophomore Kelley started beating USC out there," says Kelley. "It was great all eleven games for the Irish at the quick tackle spot. coming out in the green jerseys and beating USC here. Then, in the 1982 spring drills he was moved to the We hadn't done that in a long time." center position in which he played all twelve games After playing on three relatively unsuccessful Notre for the Irish in 1983. Along with playing the most Dame teams, including one that finished with a losing minutes of any Notre Dame lineman last season, Kelley record, Kelley feels that this can really be the year of also received a honorable mention pick on the the· Irish because ofthe extreme depth and experience 
Associated Press All-America team for his outstanding ofthis year's squad. play. "This is the best offensive team I've been involved 
Because ofhis performance last year, the sociology with. There is depth at every position," said Kelley. "If major enters his last season as a pre-season all­Steve Beuerlein goes down, then we have Scott American on many lists, but that honor does not phase Grooms, and ifAllen Pinkett goes down, we have him. Alonzo Jefferson. When I was a freshman we only had 
"It's tough because people are always watching you six good lineman, and this year we have nine or ten." 
and ifyou make a mistake they say you shouldn't be The soft-spoken senior also feels that forgetting making those mistakes," says Kelley. "But I'm going to about the last three seasons will play a big role in the forget about the recognition and just go out and play success of the 1984 Irish. 
football like it was my first year. "I hope the team can put the last three years behind 
"Sure it's an honor, but I'm going to forget about them and just have an exciting year," he says. "We that. If, at the end ofthe year, I get those honors then need to forget about the media saying that 'Notre I'll be thankful." Dame is losing and they should be winning.' 
Being moved to a new postion is difficult for a "We need to just go out and do our jobs and see 
player, and Kelley was no exception. He found the what happens. And then hopefully we can go all the transition from tackle to center difficult and un­way for the National Championship." pleasurable at first, but now he enjoys his added Kelley's philosophy of"just going out and giving it responsibility. your all" comes through in both his play and his 
"I enjoy it. You're right in the middle of the action," individual goals. he says. "There is more responsibility, especially in the ''I'm a quiet leader," says Kelley. "Hopefully my play 3-4. I like the guy (noseguard) right on me." on the field influences the other players. 
At 6-5, Kelley feels he may be a little too tall to play "I just want to stay healthy and have a good year. I center, but he uses his exceptional quickness to want to go out in style my senior year." counterbalance the size disadvantage. With an attitude like Mike Kelley's, you can't go out "I've been working to lower my stance since the in anything but style. 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE PURDUE DEFENSE 

Your 
POS NO PLAYEA HT WT CL LE 81 Tony Visco 6-4 227 Fr. SE 17 Alvin Miller 6-4 208 So. 48 Fred Strickland 6-2 205 Fr. 24 Joe Howard 5-9 171 Sr. LT 91 Melvin Menke 6-2 243 Sr. QT 53 Tom Doerger 6-5 272 Sr. 89 Derek Wimberly 6-5 245 Jr.

Scorecard 
62 Ron Plantz 6-4 271 Jr. NG 92 Brad Hornor 6-2 250 Jr. QG 54 Tim Scannell 6-4 2n Jr. 68 Anthony Rose 6-0 275 Fr. 73 Jerry Weinle 6-3 251 Sr. RT 98 Don Baldwin 6-4 244 Jr. c 63 Mike Kelley 6-5 266 Sr. 60 Nate Lindsay 5-11 221 Sr. 66 Rob Finnegan 6-3 246 Sr. RT 99 Kevin Holley 6-4 247 So. SG 75 Larry Williams 6-6 276 Sr. 71 Bob Ziltz 6-3 259 Jr. 72 John Askin 6-6 271 So. LB 57 Jason Houston 6-1 205 Sr. ST 76 Mike Perrino 6-5 274 Jr. 40 Kent Shelton 6-1 206 Fr. 
52 Shawn Heffern 6-5 254 Jr. LB 44 Kevin Sumlin 6-1 213 So. TE 82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 242 Jr. 42 Merkle Williams 6-0 199 So. 88 Ricky Gray 6-4 232 Sr. SCB 15 Don Anderson 5-10 196 Sr. 
QB 7 Steve Bauerlein 6-3 203 So. 47 Tommy Lee 10 Scott Grooms 6-2 197 Sr. Myers 6-1 200 Jr. FB 32 Chris Smith 6-2 231 Sr. ss 23 Kennedy Wilson 6-1 195 Jr. 35 Mark Brooks 6-3 228 Sr. 13 Corey Cooper 5-10 193 Sr. 
TB 20 Allen Pinkett 5-9 183 Jr. FS 26 Rod Woodson 6-0 192 So. 3 Alonzo Jefferson 5-9 187 So. 25 Jeff Williams 6-0 183 Jr. FL 6 MiltJackson 6-0 181 Jr. WCB 19 Chris Dishman 6-0 165 Fr. 83 Reggie Ward 5-11 175 Fr. 18 Jeff Lee 5-10 166 Fr. p 

When the Irish 
80 Mike Viracola ~11 186 Sr. K 17 Mike Rendina 5-8 188 Jr.

line up on offense 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE PURDUE OFFENSE OLB 56 Robert Banks 6-5 234 So. POS NO PLAYEA HT WT CL 48 Cedric Figaro 6-3 235 Fr. WR 2 Steve Griffin 5-11 186 Jr. LT 78 MikeGann 6-5 256 Sr. 36 Mark Jackson 5-9 180 Jr. 90 Tom Rehder 6-7 251 So. QT 69 Paul Alekna 6-3 267 Sr. NT 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 254 So. 64 Dave Grote 6-5 271 Sr. 71 Eric Dorsey 6-5 265 Jr. QG 74 Drew Banks 6-1 271 Sr. RT 96 Wally Kleine 6-8 278 So. 66 Bret Brunell 6-2 253 Jr. 92 Greg Dingens 6-5 254 Jr. c 65 Jerry Boat 6-0 233 Sr. OLB 55 Mike Gollc 6-5 257 Sr. 56 Rick Skibinski 6-1 245 Sr. 85 Brian Behmer 6-6 232 Sr. SG 54 Mark Drenth 6-4 271 Jr. ILB 49 Mike Kovaleski 6-2 218 So. 87 Dave Jaumotte 6-3 246 Sr. 36 Ron Weissen-ST 79 Doug Isbell 6-3 275 Sr. hofer 6-3 227 Jr. 78 Mike Connors 6-4 256 Fr. ILB 58 Tony Furjanic 6-2 231 Jr. TE 84 Marty Scott 6-1 220 Jr. 45 John McCabe 6-3 228 Jr. 85 Brad Schumacher 6-6 241 Fr. LCB 12 Troy Wilson 5-11 173 So. QB 11 Jim Everett 6-5 211 Jr. 25 Marv Spence 5-11 183 So. 14 Doug Downing 6-1 199 Fr. RCB 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 190 Jr. FB 37 Bruce King 6-2 220 Sr. 1 Mike Haywood 5-11 179 Jr. 41 Jeff Feulner 5-11 198 Sr. ss 27 Joe Johnson 6-2 192 Sr. TB 24 Rodney Carter 6-0 191 Jr. 19 James Bobb 6-1 185 So. 43 Ray Wallace 6-0 219 Jr. FS 23 Steve Lawrence 6-0 186 So. FL 22 Rick Brunner 5-8 157 Jr.

When the Boilers 
33 Hiawatha Fran-88 Jeff Price 5-11 183 Sr. cisco 5-10 192 So. 29 Brian Thornaon 6-0 209 Sr. K 18 John carney ~10 170 So. 16 PatChura 5-6 150 So.

line up on offense p 


~;.(~;;t5;'rr-r·:(-\t 7, i~8J · (-)Cgr.: '1): 
·-------~-· ·-... -------~----... --------. ... ~...._.._. 
--------.... --­
~ 
.. ~-.....
,' 
' -~··}~ ~it t! ;· ;1 
~' '­
. '· . ... liii-. :. 
)t ~~-.,., 1, 






Rule Changes 
The NCAA Football Rules Committee has made several changes which will go into effect during the 1984 season. A couple of those changes will be very noticeable to fans. 
•
Until this year, defensive pass interference had been a spot penalty -in other words, the ball was moved to the point where the infraction occurred. This season, for the first time, defensive pass interference is a 15-yard penalty and an auto­matic first down. 

•The 
other noticeable change is onthe kickoffs. In order to increase the number of kickoff returns, a new rule states that kickoffs that travel beyond the end zone in the air will be brought out to the 30-yard line, rather than the 20 as in past years. 


Other rule changes include: 
•
Decreasing the amount of legal clips. 

•Modifying 
the rules on "crackback" blocks. 


•
Making more specific definitions of permissable types of equipment. 

•
Reducing the penalty for violation of the two-yard zone when a player is making an unmolested fair catch from fifteen yards to five yards. 

•
Penalizing 1 5 y~ds an offensive player who grabs a face mask. 



.. -:· 
'..•...._.-:: --/-~ 
•$ 
-_ .' ':,~ 
;_ :/_·~·.~.·.. ··: . 
;-• y-• ~' i. 



.,. 
L' 
I 

lI. GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Purdue Boilermakers 
' 


SITE: Indianapolis Hoosier Dome ( 61,000) TIME: 12:30 p.m. EST; Saturday, Sept. 8, 1984 1V-RADIO: WNDU-1V(Ch. 16) Jack Nolan and Jeff Jeffers 
TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network Harry Kalas and George Connor 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network 
Tony Roberts, Al Wester, Luther Bradley 
WNDU-AM 1 500 
SERIES: Notre Dame 34, Purdue 19, ties 2 LAST MEETING: September 10, 1983 Notre Dame 52, Purdue 6 
RANKINGS: (AP) Notre Dame 7th, Purdue unranked TICKETS: Game is sold out 


SER'1ER-.
THE 0 B . ; < ! 
< • :· II . !
l . 
............................................................................. 
PURDUE SEPT. 8 Notre Dame at Indy 
Make checks payable to: The Obsener 

SEPT. 1 5 MIAMI
and mail to: P.O. Box Q 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 Keep up with the Irish 
SEPT. 22 MINNESOTA 
and with Notre Dame 
SEPT. 29 at Michigan State 
Enclosed is $30 for one academic year. 

D OCT. 6 OHIO STATE
this year by 
OCT. 13IOWA
D Enclosed is $20 for one semester. subscribing to The 
OCT. 20 at Illinois
Observer now. Simp­
Name _____________ 

ly complete the form 
NOV. 3 MICHIGAN 
Address.___________ at left end mail with 
NOV. 10 at Wisconsin 
your payment.
City_______ State __ Zip _ 

NOV. 17 INDIANA 
PEERLESS 

Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor
r

•( and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the 
( 
outcome of the week's major col­
( 
lege football games. Records are


( 
compiled as to how each person 

NOTRE DAME SEPT. 8 Purdue at Indy SEPT. 1 5 at Michigan State · SEPT. 22 COLORADO SEPT. 29 at Missouri OCT. 6MlAMI OCT. 13 AIR FORCE OCT. 20 SOUTH CAROLINA OCT. 27 at L.S.U. NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands NOV. 17PENNSTATE NOV. 24 at Southern Cal 
( Mike Sullivan Jeff Blumb Theron Roberts EdDomanaky Larry Burke Rob Bertino Paul Mclean
does against the spread. In other

( Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student r words, it isn't enough to pick the ()..() ()..() o-o o-o o-o ()..() o-o 
.000 .000 .000
winner of a given game. The person .000 .000 .000 .000
(' 
must pick the winner and give the 
r 
underdog points. Home team is in
i' 
CAPS.
r· [' 

IWNOIS over Missouri by 1 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers ARIZONA STATE over Oklahoma St. by 3.5 Cowboys Devils Devils Devils Devils Devils Cowboys
r.; 

ALABAMA over Boston College by 6. 5 Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Tide Tide Eagles 
r1 

Clemson over VIRGINIA by 13.5 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Wahoos
f~ 

FLORIDA over Louisiana State by 3 Gators Gators Gators Gators Tigers Gators Tigers[\ BRIGHAM YOUNG over Baylor by 7 Bears Bears Bears Bears Bears Cougars Bears
i\ 

OKLAHOMA over Stanford by 1 7 Cardinal Sooners Sooners Sooners Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal
rr 

MARYLAND over Syracuse by 8 Orangemen Terps Terps Terps Terps Orangemen Orangemen DUKE over Indiana by 5 Hoosiers Devils Hoosiers Hoosiers Hoosiers Devils Devils Michigan State over COLORADO by 6 Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Buffaloes Buffaloes Miami (Fla.) over MICHIGAN by 1 Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Hurricanes Wolverines Hurricanes Hurricanes Notre Dame over Purdue by 1 7 Irish Irish Irish Irish Boilers Irish Irish 
i 
r' ~~ 
( 


Friday, September 7, 1984 -page 13 



,
\ 
, 


\ 




Don't Drive Drunk 
Tomorrow, the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be in the 
Hoosier Dome. 
Tonight and tomorrow night, they'll be on the town. And in the bars. 
The temptation to drink and drink heavily outside the jurisdiction of the 
Great Alcohol Policy will be high indeed in Indianapolis. The University says drunkenness is a problem among students. Perhaps. 'The Indiana State Police say it's a crime, especially ifyou're driving. That's definite. 
Drinking and driving don't mix, but the new alcohol policy seems to have forced the two together. Two separate off-campus parties last weekend each drew crowds of500 people or more. Police were called to break them up, and nine people were eventually arrested. 
It's scary to think how everyone got home. 
Among 15-to 24-year-olds, drunk driving is the number one cause ofdeath. According to the Governor's Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving, one out of every 10 drivers during weekend nights is drunk. The statistics are awesome. But think for a moment beyond the statistics: a mother, a father, a teenage brother and the hurt of those who live to remember. Drunk driving breaks hearts. 
No one is saying that people should stop drinking or that people should stop having a good time. just promise yourself and your friends that you'll never drive after you've had too many. 
Have a blast in Indianapolis, but hey, let's be careful down there. 
-The Observer 

~ 
j 
~ j ~ 
~ 
"• 
411 
'
• 
4 ~ 
P.O.Box Q  
Mosquito virus Dear Editor: Friday's Observer carried an article entitled 'A Merciful Killing" that contains an error I feel must be pointed out. Mr. Cimino wrote that "Tracy was bitten by a mosquito carrying a herpes simplex strain of viral encephalitis." At best, medical history has been made, at worst a family has been greatly misinformed concerning their daughter's illness. Herpes simplex is a virus that is transmitted from person to person, generally throu~ con­tact with virus-laden saliva. Most cliildren become infected before the age of 5 and remain infected for life -the virus resides in a latent state in nerve tissues. When the virus is reactivated due to stress in the human host such as fever, sunburn, menstruation, and so forth, the most common symptom is the "cold sore" or fever blister." Worldwide 70-90 per­cent of adults have antibody to herpes type I virus so the majority of people have been in­fected with this virus. On rare occasions, reac­tivation of the virus results in an infection of the central nervous system, and encephalitis (inflammation of the brain) results. This rare illness is frequently fatal. Mosquitoes carry a variety of viruses that  that would have permitted identification of president in student affairs, as quoted in The the virus, and shown that it wa., not mosquito­Observer on Saturday, August 25, "This is borne. Improper sampling or lack ofsampling really to help protect the rights of the kids." constitutes a real problem in diagnosis of College students are old and mature disease in this country. Coupled with misin­enough to vote in public elections, serve in formation, a patient or their family may never the armed forces, and yes, drink alcohol in know what caused the illness. much ofthe free world. Notre Dame truly has many of the finest young men and women in Paul R. Grimstad, Director the country, and we deserve to be treated as LaboratoryforArbovirus adults. The policies of the administration Research andSuroeillance restrict our lives in many ways; both the good times, and the mistakes that we will inevitably make. I am not asking to put a keg in my closet; I would simple like to make a few decisions for myself.In loco parentis jeffCoyle Sophomore Dear Editor: No, this is not another letter attacking the alcohol policy: the administration is under the Skorcz response impression that we are their children in all regards, not simply on Friday and Saturday iJear J::ditor: night. Under the administration's policy ofin After reading Chris Skorcz's response to the locoparentis, the administration believes that "Freshmen's Comprehensive Guide to the it has the right to be our parents while we are Campus," we felt compelled to respond im­away from home. A vice president of the Uni­mediately. We are freshmen and we were not versity has gone so far as to call us "kids." For at all amused by the infantile nature of the let­years the admissions department and its ter. leader, John Goldrick, current associate vice Mr. Skorcz showed a very obvious president for resident life, prided itself on ad­deficiency in humor in writing such an asinine mitting some of the brightest and most response. While we may not be fully ac­talented young men and women in the customed to campus life, we are doing our country. Yet once admitted, the students best, and letters like Skorcz's just give all fresh­were treated like children. The alcohol policy, men a bad name.  New patriotism DearEduor: After reading Bill Healy's Wednesday edito­rial "The Gipper Wants ND," I feel compelled to respond in the utmost enthusiastic manner. In the words of the Republican party, "This is the clearest choice we have had in years." Compared to the anarchy that existed in the United States during the term ofthe Carter ad­ministration, America appears to be a ship on tranquil waters. With the economy shining brighter than it has for the past 50 years, and with our position in worldwide political circles garnering more respect with each policy decision, our nation seems to be climb­ing out ofthe Carter/Mondale abyss ofthe late '70's. As a further point not mentioned in the edi· torial, over the last four years the internal character ofthe United States has undergone a complete facelift. Most people (myselfinclud­ing) feel much more proud to be an American now than after the previous administration. Increased military recruitment and flag waving, and even the national fervor over the Olympics exemplify the fact that many Americans are proud to have the letters "USA" tatooed across their garmentry. I say again-the choice is simple. On the first Tuesday in November you will have to con­-trast two diametrically opposed political ideologies: a decadent liberalism mixed in the  

also infect the central nervous system. In the Midwest we have at least 6 mosquito-borne viruses that can cause encephalitis in humans. However, herpes simplex virus is not one of them; it is simply not a mosquito-borne virus. There are unfortunate cases where uni­nformed doctors have told parents that the encephalitis their child was suffering from was caused by a mosquito bite when in fact the docwr had not even taken blood samples parietals, pre-ordained class schedules, end­less lines, a laundry service for males, maids, approval of our choice of movies, and the presence ofreligious fathers, brothers, and/or sisters in each hall are just some examples of our adolescent treatment. 
Th~ limitations on parties in private rooms are another example of administrative med­dling in our private lives. This action was defended by Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice 
What is really disturbing in this case is that up to now we had been impressed by Notre Dame's admission standards and the genuine intelligence exhibited by most everyone we've met. 
Perhaps Mr. Skorcz should lighten up and take himself a little less seriously. 
Fran Theby 
Nancyjohns 
LewtsHall 
tar pits ofpast failure or a new conservatism, a bright torch to light the way to a shining future for the United States and the world. All that is asked is that we, on November 6, make the logical choice, the right choice -the only choice. Remember, when the curtain is drawn and the lever is about to be pulled, vote with your head, not in spite ofit. 
Evan Farley Sophomore 

The Observer~.~ Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in·Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .. __ ...... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller .... ............ Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager . _..... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor .... ____ ..... Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . . __ .... _.Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the admtnistration of e1ther institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor.... ........ Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor . __ ...... _._.Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966

community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor .. ..... _. __ ... Mary Healy IS encouraged. Photo Editor . ........... ____ Pete Laches 
~•;r-------------------~--------~------~~.---------------------~a~--....~4 

Friday, SeptJmber 7, I9S4-page 14 
:\ 




Sports Briefs 
All week-night home basketballgames this season will start at 7 p.m., an hour earlier than in past years. The change has been made in order to give students a study period after the game and in an effort to permit more school-age children to attend games. Weekend starting times will differ. -The Observer 
After three rounds, golf team captain John O'Donovan is leading the Notre Dame Open with a score of 149. Freshman Richard Connelly and junior Steve Suhrer are tied for second with 1SO. There are three rounds to go in the tournament, which features a record 4 7 golfers vying for spots on the varsity golf team. -The Observer 
The first setofdeadlineshas been announced by NVA. September 12 is the deadline for entries for grad touch foot· ball, men's soccer, co-ree water polo, and the golf tourney. -The Observer 
Stretchercise,a different kind ofexercise class featuring stretching and light exercise, is being offered by the Non-Varsity Athletic Office. The classes will be held on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:10-6 p.m. at ACC Gym 4, above Gate 3. Call the NVA office at 239-5100 for more information. -The Observer 
The ND women's fastpitch softball club will hold a mandatory meeting for all new and returning players on Monday, Sept. 10, at 6:30p.m. in room 007 ofFarley Hall. Those who are interested but unable to attend the meeting, should call Mara at 4S83,)ackie at 4541, or Sheila at 4598.-The Observer 
The Windsurfing Club will have a meeting on Monday, Sept. 10, at 7 p.m., at St. joe's Lake. In case of rain the meeting will be held at LaFortune. Membership fee of ten doJI~s is required. Lessons and racing to be discussed. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team will play the Notre Dame women's soccer team today at 4:30 p.m. on Madeleva Field at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club will be con­ducting the annual Novice Boxing Program for beginning boxers. The program begins on Monday, Sept. 10, at 4 p.m. in the boxing room of the ACC. An organizational meeting will be held today at S 
p.m. in the boxing room. All those interested are invited to attend. For more information call Mike Latz at 2366. -The Observer 
International students are sponsoring a game of cricket here at Notre Dame. The India Association will take on the "Rest of the World" combination. The game will be played Sunday, Sept. 9, at 11:30 a.m. at the Stepan field. All are invited. For more information, call W. Griffin at 3376.-The Observer 
Officials are needed for interhall football and soc­cer. No previous officiating experience is required. If interested, contact the NVA office at 239-6100.-Tbe Observer 
McEnroe reaches 
U.S. Open semifinals 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Despite a flurry of adverse line calls and a warning from the umpire, top-seeded john McEnroe corralled his anger and collared a spot in the U.S. Open Ten­nis Championships semifinals with a 7-5, 6-3, 6-4 victory over Gene Mayer last night. 

McEnroe, seeking his fourth title in America's premier tennis event, next will meet Jimmy Connors, who has won here on the hardcourts at the National Tennis Center the last ·' 
two years.
Connors advanced earlier in the day by eliminating Great Britain's John Lloyd 7·5, 6-2, 6-0. 
The fiery McEnroe, visibily hold­ing his famed temper in check, closed out his battle with the unseeded Mayer in typical McEnroe flair, firing a pair of aces on the the last two points of the match. 
Then, as he walked across the court, leaving the scene of his latest success, McEnroe stopped and 

..,
raised his hand hil.dl, like a matador, 

turning completely around in a sa­·~ 
lute to the huge crowd in Louis 
Armstrong Stadium. 
Tomorrow's other men's finals pairs No. 2 Ivan Lendl of Czechos­lovakia against No. 1S Pat Cash of Australia. 
In the women's semifinals, which are scheduled to be played todav, No. 1 seed Martina Navratilova will face No. 13 Wendy Turnbull of Australia, while No. 2 Chris Evert Lloyd takes on 16-year-old Carling Bassett ofCanada, the No. 14 seed. 
The Obsert•er Notre Dame office. locatt"d on thl' third floor of I.aFortum: Studt·nt Centn, au·epts dassifieu advt"rti~ing from t) a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through friday. Tb(' Obst'rt•er Saint Mary's office. lot·att·d on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accept~ classifinJs from 12:50 p.m. until ·"' p m.. Mon­day though friday. Deadline for nt·xH.Iay classitkds is -~ p.m. All dassifinls must ht" prepaid. either in pnson or hy mail.< :harge is I 0 n·nts per five <:harac­

..


Classifieds 
ters er day. 

NOTICES  TYPING AVAILABLE. 267-4062.  FOR RENT  NEEDED! FOOTBALL TIX FOR THE PENN STATE GAME CALL VINCE AT 1233.  Needed, MIAMI tickets. Please call John at 2650. Thankyou.  CIAO CLUB TUES  STUDENT! ND/SMC ITALIAN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING SEPT 11 6:30 PM UTILE  
DO  YOU  KNOW  SOMEONE  WHO's  NEEDED: THREE GA'S FOR MIAMI OR  THEATRE  OF  LAFORTUNE  EVERY­ 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner oc CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadenlhip Training! Challenge' Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner oc CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264)  DYING TO BE THIN? Anorexia nervosa and bulimia are serious eating disorders affecting hundreds of young women on the Notre Dame/St. Mary's campus. Many promising futures will be disrupted or destroyed by these disorders unless they are treated But now there is HOPE-­Healthy Options foe Problem Eaters, the Memorial Hospitsl Program for compre­hensive treatment of these disorders. In­dividual and group therapy is available, with a new 10 week group beginning!H8· 64. For more information. contact Dr.  .. ············· ......................... .. FURNISHED BASEMENT ROOM FOR TWO STUDENTS. CALL 232-6193. ··················································~········· LUXURY 2 BEDROOM APT TO SHARE~ TENNIS. SAUNA, EXERCISE ROOM, INC. FIREPLACE, LAKEVIEW, DISH­WASHER, HEAT, & MORE! 256-6676 WANTED  HELP! MY UTILE BROTHER IS COM­ING ALL THE WAY FROM SACRAMENTO TO SEE THE NO -COLORADO GAME. BUT I'Ll NEED A TICKET. CALL DENISE AT 1330. V31 NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 TWO S.C. GA'S & 1 STUD. TIX FOR SALE BEST OFFER RICK 4384  AIR FORCE GAME AND ONE GA FOR PENN STATE DESPERATE!$$$$CALL SUSAN 264-4261 NEEDED 3 GA AIR FORCE CALL JAMIE 264-5476 GA AIR FORCE TICKETS (2) NEEDED. CALl 272-6903. $$$ NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET. CALL JOHN AT2123  ONE WELCOME' REFRESHMENTS FOLLOWING' SUSIE ANTONINI!! SUSIE ANTONINI!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO VOU HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU WE LOVE YOU WE LOVE VOU HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU JENNI&PATIY TIM, IS THIS CAMPUS VIEW? L.W. SUSIE, I KNOW YOU'RE 20 BUT ... CAN WE STIU BE FRIENDS? JEN  
Daniel Rybicki (formerly of  NO Psych.  
Serv.)  at  Memorial  Hospital  264-7308.  NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR  I HAVE COLORADO STUD. TIX. WANT  WHERE'S BLUE THUNDER?  
\. \ \ ~  BRIDGE BRIDGE BRIDGE Who says there's nothing to do? Call Town & Country Bridge Center at 255­6613 foe more infocmation. PR~TYPE Specializing in student papers, dissertations, law papers resumes2n-58338a.m. to 10p.m.  Special rates for ND-SMC community. FULLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL Don't let these disorders ruin your future oc that of one's you love...CALL 284­7308, MEMORIAL HOSPITAL for HOPE TYPING SERVICE 2n-6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE  SOPHMOAES·;··I~i;;,;;;i~··i·~-..~~;;;g an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559­$50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R·9834.  MIAMI FOOTBALl GAME CALL 283­3294 NEED 1-8 Miami Tickets. I'm from an Irish Catholic family and some of my brothers and sisters are coming for a game. Con­tact Scott 145 Stanford 283-2094. I need 2 parent tix for the S Carolina game. Please call Steve at 4125.  TO TRADE FOR MIAMI STUD. TIX OR GAS WILL ALSO TRADE FOR N.D.­MISSOURI TIX CALL 2n·7570!!'!! PERSONALS  I CAN'T TAKE IT ANYMORE! GIVE ME FREEDOM, GIVE ME LIBERTY, SELL ME VOUR CAR! IF YOU KNOW ANYONE SELLING A CAR FOR UNDER $1000, CALL 1216 IMMEDIATELY (IF NOT SOONER.) HI Sue (or is it Jennifer?) I thought you would like to receive your very own per­sonal ad in The Observer. So. how are  
Wordprocessing and typing. 272-8827 GRADUATE STUDENTS! The NEW YORK TIMES, the World's 1 newspaper, is available foe delivery to your depart­ment mailbox or any other convenient place on campus foe only 35 cents on weekdays. The TIMES guarantees to deliver your paper before 6A.M. the day of publication. It's never too late to order.  ······················· ........................................ L-5 SOCIETY MEETING: Mon· day,Sept.10 7:00pm LaFortune Utile Theater. New members welcome. PROGRESSIVE MUSIC..PROGRESSIVE MUSIC: lntw­Mt.d In the club but you mlued our first ~ng? QUICK! C.ll Bill leon8rd lit 1185 or Keith Hwrlaon at  NEEDED: TWO G.A. TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME: CALL 283-3884 WANTED: FULl·TIME BABYSITIER AT MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND OCC. 4 VR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORTA­TION TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA SALARIED. REFERENCES. AFTER SPM CALL: 269-9193.  SUPER DESPERATE!!!! WE NEED ONE PURDUE TICKET REALLY BAD. IF YOU CAN HELP US PLEASE CAll A SKID­DERAT2448. WEWOULDUKETOSAY THAT MONEY IS NO OBJECT BUT NONE OF US OWN A BANK. PLEASE HELP, THAT IS ONE PUADUWE TICKET CALl 2448. 2453 OR 2452. HELP!  You know you'll never find no gold On a sandy beach; You'N never drill for Oil In no cito,· srreets; You'U never find a ruby In a mountain ofrocks; And there ain't no Coupe de Ville Hidin·atthe bonom Ofa Cracker Jack box. -Meetloef  ya? Give me a call sometime. The back­rub offer still stands ... You know what I would do if I had one wish? Well, do you? Dot and Rondllare GODDESSES Things are seldom what they seem, Skim milk masquerades as cream, Jackdaws strutin peacock leathers.. -Gilbert and Sullivan's H.M.S. Pinafore  
Simply contact George Devenny at 145 Stanfocd Hall 283-2094 UNDERGRADUATES,LAW STU· DENTS,PROFESSORS. STAFF PER· SONNEL, SECRETARIES SECURITY GUARDS, andsquirrels The NEW YORK TIMES WILl DELIVER your copy of the limes Icc only 35cents on weekdays. The Times guarantees delivery to your room. office, carroi, mailbox department office, or tree befoce BA.M. the day of publica­tion. It's never too late to ceder so come on, stay up with the TIMES, contact George Devenny at 145 Stanlocd Hall 283-2094  3345. Act quickly; tha first annual PUNK'N'PIZZA PARTY Ia coming! T-SHIRTS T-SHIRTS T-SHIRTS T· SHIRTS T-SHIRTS T-SHIRTS T -SHIRTS PURDUE GAME T -SHIRTS $5.00 ON SALE IN THE DINING HALLS FRIDAY AND SUNDAY: LUNCH AND DINNER ARE YOU INTERESTED IN SOME GOOD CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP? IF SO, CALL CHARLIE AT 1517 OR DAVE AT 1819. CALL TODAY'  IF YOU HAVE PHOTOS OF YOUR UR­BAN PlUNGE, THE CENTER FOR SO. CIAL CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE COPIES OF THEM. DROP THEM OFF AT THE FRONT DESK. All PHOTOS Will BE RETURNED. Responsible student seeking garage near campus to store car during the winter months. Call Ted 263-1211. FOR SALE ]  VIRGINITY and/oc MONEY for three Air Focce tickets. call 2n-4671 I NEED JUST ONE TICKET FOR MIAMI; AND 2-4 TICKETS FOR THE AIAFORCE GAME. PLEASE CAU SCOTI AT 272­6278. $$$$$. ......... .. ....................... NEED 4 STUD OR GA S.C. TICKETS! CAll ROB 4605 OR MICH 1283 ..................................................................... Will BEAT any offer for 4 Miami tix. Call 1473 and see how much money you can make.  MY LONG LOST BROTHER HAS 8EEN FOUND. HE WALKED All THE WAY BACK FROM VIETNAM, AND HIS ONLY WISH IS TO SEE A NOTRE DAME FOOTBALl GAME. If you have a student ticket or a G.A. toe the Miami game please call Sarah at 1333. Think of it as an act of patriotism, selling your tiCket to a vet. ..... -........................•' ••......•.....•• ' ........ . BE TH£qE MASH FANS!!! FOLLOWING THE ORIGINAL FILM, COME DANCE IN ROSIE'3 BAR AS YOUR FAVORITE CHARACTER!! FRI. SEPT. 7TH, 10PM HCC!! M•A•S•H• B•A•S•H  The ey" raelly are the window to the aoul. Juet take a look aomtlme. It'• -Y· Will somebody please explain to me what's going on? NO SuMn, I really do hope to see you in Indianapolis. ...... BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS AT THE SAINT MARY'S OFFICE, 3RO FLOOR HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER.  
URBAN PLUNGE PHOTOS NEEDED ­ 12:30  • 2:30  P.M.  MONDAY  THRU  
STUDENTS!! The Computer Center is now publishing a monthly COMPUTING NEWSLETTER  LOST/FOUND Lost: AIWA walkman in LaFortune lobby on Monday. The tape is very important.  FOR SALE Solid wood table and lour chairs. $75.00. 2n·5833 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. MAXELl XL2 2.751150  DESPERATELY NEED TWO TIX FOR MIAMI! WiNing to pay$$$$$$. Please call Norm 2n..030J HELP..i..NiiED".siuoENr.iiCi<fiTs'ro  IF YOU TOOK PHOTOS ON YOUR PlUNGE, THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE COPIES OF THEM! LEAVE YOUR PICTURES WITH THE FRONT DESK -THEY Will 8E RETURNED!  FRIDAY. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS PRE­PURDUEGAMEPARTY&Moce~after game 110 S. Medidian St. (US 31 S) 2 Blocks from Hoosier Dome LA SCALA'S  
to keep you up to date on campus com­puting activities. A copy will be sent to each dorm. but we are also offering per· sonal subsctiptions on a trial basis. See Betty in Room 3 in the basement of the Computing Center/Math Building to subscribe. You must come in person to Sign up. Requests Will be honored on a first-come, first-served basis while the supply lasts.  Reward offered please call Annie 272­0816 NEED 8 MIAMI GA"S WILl PAY MASSIVE BUCKS 3639 LOST LOST Woman's gold watch-· Timex. Please if you find it or have found it call Kim at4114.  TICKETS . . ...... ... ... . ., •......•..••• I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR Tl-'E MISSOLRI GAME!!I!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 2n·2581 OR 239-7471. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  THE PENN STATE VS NO GAME WIU­ING TO PAY$$$ CALL BILL AT 16490 WANT TO MAKE MONEY? Then sell us your Colorado tickets! We are desperate and will pay well!! Help us! PLEASE!!! Call 263-2063/2064 Ask for Bob, Larry, Sid, or Oscar It's something we've all got to do.  The  weight of the world lays on shoulders, But what am I to do? I know sometimes I be crazy, But I worry about you. I know it makes no difference To what you're going through, But I see the tip of the iceberg And 1worry about you.  my  The Senioc Class offers a big thank you to MARINA FERNANDEZ for designing the bumper-stickers which are on sale now. THEY'RE GREAT, MARINA! KEITH MOON AUG.23,1947­SEPT.7,1978 RIP. ..................................... !!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE 2622  

The Observer Friday, September 7, 1984 -page 15 
1984 Irish receiving corps full of talent experience
' 
By LARRY BURKE player, a real battler. With his knowl­Sports Writer edge and experience, he's an impor­tant part ofour team." 
As is the case with most areas on Milt Jackson is another returning the 1984 Notre Dame football team, standout for the Irish. The six-foot, the receiving corps on this year's two-time letterman, with 23 catches squad will have proven, experi­for 438 yards and three touch­enced performers. The only ques­downs, displayed tremendous confi­tion is, "Are there enough of them?" dence a year ago and became Notre 
There is certainly plenty of talent Dame's big play receiver-with 1 7 of among this year's wideouts, but only his receptions coming over the last three of the wide receivers have a four games. 
"Milt has an exceptional amountsubstantial amount of playing expe­
of talent," says Stock of jackson.
rience. For that reason, receivers "He's made a lot ofprogress-he's oncoach Mike Stock will go into the the upgrade. I'm also impressed withseason opener with three players ­his attitude. He has all the physicalsenior Joe Howard, junior Milt Jack­and mental tools to be a premierson, ~nd sophomort: Alvin Miller-al­player."
ternating at the split end and flanker 
spots. 
"We're going to go with a three­man rotation," said Stock, "even though through spring practice Pat Cusack (a junior walk-on at the flanker position) has done a real fine job. However, the three people (Howard, Jackson, and Miller) that were the core of the receivers when we finished the season with the Liberty '3owl victory, and the ones that we f<ltated on a first-team basis, will be the ones that will rotate much the same in this opening con­
' test against Purdue." Howard is preparing for his final season of Notre Dame football. No multi-sport athlete in the country 

Alvin Miller 
with a football/basketball combina­Sophomore Alvin Miller came ontion can boast the accomplishments strong at the end of last season. Theof Notre Dame's 5-9 speedster, the 6-4, lightning quick Miller played inteam's leading receiver with 27 

every game last year, and finished in fine style by catching three passes for 34 yards and a touchdown in the Liberty Bowl. An outstanding all­around athlete, Miller has already set a handful ofNotre Dame records as a hurdler and sprinter in track. 
"Alvin's been blessed with a lot of skill," says Stock of Miller. "He's made fast progress, he has a great at­titude, and he's learning more every day. The indications are that he has a bright future ahead." 
Stock had hoped since last spring that one of the reserve wideouts would emerge to join the experi­enced trio. As of now, that has not happened. But the Irish receivers coach will try his best to get Cusack
Milt Jackson 
some playing time. catches for 464 yards and two "Hopefully," says Stock, "if the up­touchdowns in '83. "Small Wonder," portunity presents itself, Pat Cusack 
who had a 43-yard reception in last will get a chance to see some action. year's Liberty Bowl, caught at least He certainly has improved an awful one pass in every game but one last lot since last fall, and we have a lot of season. With a career average of20.5 confidence in him. But as it stands yards per reception, Howard has a now, Jackson, Miller, and Howard chance at Kris Haines' team mark of will get the most playing time." 
21.5 yards per catch in a career. Another possibility to see action Stock calls Howard a "gritty at the wide receiver positions is 
*********************************** 
i Affention Seniors ~ : Senior Class Purdue Party : : lnlndy! : 
~ ~ 
: ~ Before & After Game : ~ 
: La Scala's Bar : 
: 110 S. Meridian St (U.S. 31 S.) : ~ (Monument Circle) ~ ~ ~ 
: Maps available from Sr. Avisory Council : 
t*********************************~ 


junior Van Pearcy, who is back on "Ricky Gray is the kind of day-in, offense after working out at free day-out, consistent performer, safety in the spring. Stock believes it doing all the things we want him to is just a matter of time before the do, and then even sometimes some­two-time letterman gets back into thing more. He's a 'blue-collar' kind the system and becomes a factor. of guy -he really gets his nose into 
As far as the freshmen are con­the nitty-gritty and stays after it. cerned. three have been impressive at times. Flanker Reggie Ward, a 5­11, 175-pounder from Long Beach, Calif., and Tim Brown, a 6-foot, 170­pound split end from Dallas, Tex., have both made the travelling squad. Also looking for playing time is Tony Eason, a 6-4, 185-pound flanker from Snohomish, Wash. Stock feels that all three are in a position to "start put­ting some heat on the upperclas­smen." 
The tight end position will once again be in the capable hands of junior Mark Bavaro. The 6-4, 232­pound Bavaro had a solid year in '83, with 23 catches for 376 yards and three touchdowns. A tough blocker, Bavaro stepped in to start in every 

Ricky Gray 

game of'83, and displayed the block­ing, catching, and running skills nec­
"He's a good-effort guy. We feel essary to get the job done with a that if Mark needs a breather, then flourish. His combined talents -ac­Ricky Gray will go in and spell him at centuated by his tenacious style -times. And, ofcourse, when we're in could make him a match for former the two tight end offense, Ricky 
tight end greats like Dave Casper Gray will be the other tight end." and Ken MacAfee. "He's one of the finest tight ends 
Behind Gray, 6-5, 226-poundthat I've ever seen in all my years of 

sophomore Dan Tanczos has coaching experience," says Stock of switched back from the linebacker 

Bavaro. "He's constantly working to position and moved ahead of injury-

plagued Joel Williams into the number-three spot. Williams, a 6-4, 227-pound sophomore, has been troubled by shoulder and hip injur­ies in the preseason. 
Stock is confident that the '84 corps of receivers compares favorably with last year's group. 
"With the system that we've im­plemented," says the Irish receivers coach, "I think that we're far and away advanced in terms of knowl­
edge and familiarity with what we have to do to accomplish success. I
Mark Bavaro 

think the fact that we're older and improve himself-he has a very posi­more familiar with what we're doing tive attitude. He has a tremendous will help us an awful lot, even in this 
opening contest.

desire to excel, to make himself and the team the best that they can be. 
"There's not much more you can "I feel very comfortable with the say about a guy who weighs in people we have and the effort already the same from last spring. they've put forth. Now it's just a mat­We feel that he's an outstanding col-ter of execution and our emotional lege football player, one of the best attitude going into this contest." 
tight ends in the country." Although Stock has plenty ofcon-
Stock tabbed Ricky Gray, a 6-4, fidence in his receivers, don't ex­232-pound senior, as the player who pect the Irish to come out throwing has emerged as Bavaro's top backup. against Purdue tomorrow. 
r~
§ r-. ··• Men's Hair styling at Its finest I ~ minutes trom campus S 
I s 00 HAIRCUTS I I I
I 272-0312 Welcome Back ~ § 211-1619 Students S§ '54555 Terrace lane ~ 
8 (St. Rd. 23)§ Aero~~ from Martm's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut.
I 
We are only minutes from campus 

~_,....,.._,-..,.cr.,.r..r..r~~....c:Y-..r..r..r~......-.....cY.)I"'....ooc>"' ~.,_,...,...._,...,.....,..o=...
................ .-,a,111 

II Attention Faculty !! Friday afternoon 5:30 -8 £)
stop by 
§~ 
to relax and chat over our drink specials, fresh jumbo burgers and the works!! 
"It'll depend on the contest," says Stock. "If Purdue is up to stopping our run, then of course the pass is 
what's going to have to carry us. But I hope that we're going to be able to do both (run and pass), and do both effectively. If the running game 
works, then the passing game will be that much more impressive. I don't think you put one before the other. 
"We've shown that with our offen­sive line and our backs, that we block well and run well, and we es­tablish the line of scrimmage. If we 
can establish the line of scrimmage with our offensive line and maintain our superiority there, then I think we're going to have a good chance to win the football game." 
With so many weapons, the Irish will be tough to beat tomorrow. 
Abraham decides on Syracuse 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. · Tailback Byron Abraham, who on Monday announced his plans to transfer from Notre Dame, said yesterday that he will enroll at Syracuse. One of the most highly recruited football players in New York state after his 1982 senior season, Abraham will be returning home to play for the Orangemen. 
He will have to sit out the cur­rent football season but will be eligible to play in 1985. 
Abraham said on Wednesday that he had lost hope of cracking the starting lineup with the Irish, where, of course, tailback Allen Pinkett has two more years to play. 
"I just wasn't happy there -not with football, not with the social life, not with anything," said Abraham. "I guess I'm just a New York boy." 
Syracuse coach Dick MacPher­son has awarded Abraham a pre­viously uncommitted scholarship. Notre Dame released Abraham after he talked with Coach Gerry Faust. Without the release, Abraham would have been ineligible for financial aid while redshirting this year at Syracuse. 
Navy Nursing 
2 careers in 1! 
FIRST -You're a Navy Nurse. You work in a Professional P'lvironment and have the opportunity for advanced training. You are also in an im­mediate supervisory position. 
SECOND You are a Navy officer. This in­cludes travel and adven­ture. Your salary and ben­efits are comparable to civilian nursmg. 
REQUIREMENTS 
BSN degree. or a three-· year diploma with one year related experience. 
SEND YOUR RESUME TO: Navy Medical Programs Am 643 575 N. Pennsylvania l,nd1anapolis, IN 46204 
OR CALL KATHY SCANLON TOLL FREE: 1-800-382-9782 

The Observer Friday, September 7, 1984-page 16 
Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eut 
w L Pet. GB Chicago 85 55 607 New York 78 62 .557 7 Philadelphia 73 66 .525 11.5 St. Louis 72 66 .522 12 Montreal 68 71 .489 16.5 Pittsburgh 61 79 .436 24 
w..t San Diego 80 61 .567 Houston 71 70 .504 9 Atlanta 69 71 .493 10.5 Los Angeles 66 75 .468 14 Cincinnati 59 82 .418 21 San Francisco 58 82 .414 21.5 
Y•terdlly'l Aeaultl 
Houston 14. San Francisco 2 Cincinnati 10. San Diego 3 Chicago 4. Montreal 1 Pittsburgh 2, New York 0 St. Louis 6, Philadelphia 5 Atlanta 3, Los Angeles 2, 18 innings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Eut w L Pet. GB 
Detroit 89 51 .636 Toronto 
80 59 .576 8.5 Baltimore 75 63 .543 13 New York 74 
64 .536 14 
Boston 74 65 .532 
14.5 
aeveland 62 79 .440 27.5 
Milwaukee 57 .410
82 31.5 Welt Minnesota 70 69 .504 Kansas City 
70 69 .504 California 
69 69 .500 .5 
Chicago 
65 74 .468 5 Oakland 
65 76 .461 6 Seattle 63 n .450 
7.5 
Texas 61 n .442 
8.5 
YMterdlly'l RMultl 
Chicago 7, Oakland 3 Only game scheduled 
I,---------------~
\ I $1 oFF LEE's RIBS $1 OFF I 
I I
1 Bring this ad into LEE's 1I Saturday after Indianapolis II and receive $1 off any full meal I 
I $1 OFF $1 OFF I 


,._________________;, 
Join the 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
1st General Meeting MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10 
7:00 Engineering Auditorium 
LIVING OFF CAMPUS?? NEED A WASHER/DRYER?? 

NO INVESTMENT!! 

Faces Purdue Sunday 

Field hockey team opens season 
By TOM FAY 
Sports Writer 
A young, but aggressive, Irish field hockey team is tuning up for its season opener against Purdue, which happens Sunday at 3 p.m. on Alumni Field. First-year head coach Jill Undenfield is optimistic about the team, although she is not too familar with the opponents on the schedule. 
lbis year's squad is definitely young. Only one senior, co-captain Toby Martin, is on the team. Along with this year's other co-captain, junior goalie Patti Galagher, Martin will try to lead the Irish to another winning season. 
Notre Dame's strong point this year will be its defense. Anchoring that defense will be Galagher, who is looking forward to another out­standing season, and a pair of juniors, Christina Weinman and Regina Degnan. Also helping out 
around the net will be Mary Rose Rodgers, another junior. 
Woodley throws two TD passes 

Steelers topple Jets, 23-17 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-David Woodley, coming back four days after a concussion, tossed two short touchdown passes, and Gary Ander­son booted three field goals, as the Pittsburgh Steelers topped the New York Jets, 23-17, last night in a mistake-filled game. 
Woodley, knocked out oflast Sun­day's opening-game loss to Kansas City in the third quarter, hit rookie Louis Lipps with a 6-yard TD pass in 
the ftrst period. Then, he tossed a 3­yard lob that another rookie, Weegie Thompson, plucked out ofthe air for the go-ahead score in the third per­iod. 
Anderson had field goals of32 and 43 yards in the second quarter, and 27 in the fourth quarter. But he hooked two more, one from 27 and one from 30 yards out. 
The Jets, playing before a crowd of 70,654 in their first regular­season home game at Giants Stadium -they moved from New York's Shea 
Stadium after last season -had taken a 14-13 lead on Bobby Humphery's 97-yard touchdown return with the second-half kickoff. It was the Jets' 
first touchdown on a kickoff return since Burgess Owens did it against Denver in 1973. 
But New York, also 1-1, could hold the lead for only a little more than two minutes. On the fit'st play after Greg Buttle intercepted a Woodley pass at theJets 4 2, quarter­
back Pat Ryan was forced to back­pedal under a Steeler blitz. As he did, he hit his right knee with the ball and 
The best has a taste all its own. 

Offensively, Notre Dame is count­ing on the services of sophomore Corinne DiGiacomo to fill the huge hole left in the line-up by the gradua­tion of its all-time leading scorer, Claire Henry. But ifDiGiacomo con-

Jill Lindenfield 
tinues to progress from her 18-goal season as a freshman, then that hole should be adequately covered. 
Another outstanding offensive force returning for the Irish is junior Molly McCabe. McCabe, a halfback, 
it squirted to the turf, ro be picked up by Robin Cole and returned to theJets 13. 
Three plays later, Woodley lobbed the ball into the air from the 3-yard line where the 6-6 Thompson leaped over Davlin Mullen to pull it in to give the Steelers a 20-14 lead. 
The Jets had a chance to regain the lead later in the period when Chuck Ramsey's punt bounced off the leg ofSteelers rookie Terry Long 
and was recovered by Greg Bingham at the Pittsburgh 49. After the Jets 

is a superb playmaker who is closing in on the Notre Dame all-time assist 
mark held by Giana Marrone. McCabe needs only five more assists to shatter the record. 
Along with junior Melissa Som­mer, the two should provide an of­fensive punch that will be needed if the team is to have any success this year. 
Other strong points for the Irish include speed, aggressiveness, and the good relationship that has developed between Coach Linden­field and her players. 
If keys like DiGiacomo and Galag­her can come through with superb seasons, the team can get improve­ment in passing that would build a potent offensive attack, and fresh­men hopefuls like Mary Jane Beetel, Janet Budnick, Maureen O'Neil, Joanne Marshall, and Benet DeBerry can contribute somewhat, then the Irish will be on their way to a very successful season. After that, things can only get better because of how young the team is. 
moved to the Pittsburgh 10, they were pushed back by a sack and two penalties. So, they had to settle for Pat Leahy's 52-yard field goal, the 
longest in Jets history, that made it 20-17. 
Pittsburgh then marched 79 yards in 10 plays for Anderson's 27-yard field goal. 
Pittsburgh'" Sam Washington in­tercepted two Ryan passes to stop two late Jet possessions, and Rick Woods picked off a desperation toss from Ryan on the game's last play. 
Brian Lawton powers Team USA over Czechoslovakia 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. · Two second­period goals by the Minnesota North Stars' Brian Lawton snapped a 1-1 tie and powered Team USA to a 3-2 Canada Cup victory over Czechos­lovakia yesterday. 
Lawton chopped a rebound out of the air past Czechoslovakia goalie Dominik Hasek to give the United States the lead and then added the 
winning goal eight minutes later on a setup by Bobby Carpenter. 
Neal Broten, who also plays for the National Hockey League's North Stars, scored in the first period. 

Vincent Lukac scored both goalsfor the Czechoslovaks. 
The victory gave the U.S. a 2-0-1 record in the six-nation round­robin tournamentJ while the Czec­hoslovaks droppeo to 0-2-1. 
SObering 
Advice_.···~ 
can 
alife 



SPECIAL BACK-TO-SCHOOL DISCOUNT 
20"0FF 
¥ $25.00/Month If-$80.00/Semester Jf. No Deposit Jf. Free, Fast Delivery • Any size portable or console 
13398 McKinley Hwy 259-7661 
BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
GMAT 
• 
TEST-N TAPE"-LIBriAilY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET CLASSES STARTING 


Sep1ember 9 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272·4135 




The Observer Friday, September 7, 1984-page 17 

Cubs win, Mets lose; Chicago lead now at seven 

Enos Cabell singled home one run and Reynolds followed with his second career grand slam and sixth home run ofthe season, chasing Las­key. 
Reds 10, Padres 3 
SAN DIEGO · Eric Davis and Wayne Krenchicki homered, player­manager Pete Rose had three hits, and the Cincinnati Reds used a six­run sixth to defeat the San Diego Padres, 10-3, yesterday. 
Davis' homer was his fifth in his last four games and provided the Reds with a 2-0 first inning lead. 
Krenchicki's solo home run off Eric Show, 14-9, broke a 3·3 tie and ignited the Reds' big sixth inning.Skeeter Barnes reaChed on thiro baseman Luis Salazar's fielding error. Eddie Milner singled Barnes to third, then stole second and }!ose walked to load the bases. 
Davis singled in Barnes and Dave Parker lashed a two-run single. Greg Booker replaced Show and was greeted with an RBI single bv Brad Gulden. Krenchicki doubled "in the final run ofthe inning. 
Left-bander joe Price, 7-11, went five innings to gain the victory with Bob Owchinko finishing up for his second save. 
Show tied the game 2-2 in the third when he hit a two-run homer. 
The Reds went ahead 3· 2 in the fourth, with Gulden scoring on Tom Foley's groundout, but Alan Wig­gins' sacrifice fly tied it again at 3·3 m the fifth. 
White Sox 7, A's 3 
CHICAGO · Greg Luzinski slashed a pair of two-run doubles and Vance Law added a two-run homer to lead· the Chicago White Sox to a 7-3 win over the Oakland A's last night. 
LaMarr Hoyt, 12-15, picked up his second consecutive complete game victory, striking out seven and al­lowing six hits, including two homers. 
Curt Young, 7-4, gave up 10 hits and seven earned runs in four-and­two-third innings for the loss. 
The game was played in a drizzle that started during the fifth. 
Luzinski, in his first at-bat after sit· ting out three games, doubled home Scott Fletcher and Greg Walker in the first inning. 
A single by Oakland's Jim Essian knocked in Dwayne Murphy to cut the lead to 2-1 in the second and Oakland tied the game in the third when leadoff batter Mike Davis homered. 

Cricket 
continuedfrom page 20 ball travels through tbe air out ofthe boundary, the team is awarded six runs. When the ball is hit onto the field, the batsmen have the choice of either running to the other wicket or of staying at their own. If they decide to run, both batsmen must run at the same time and reach the safety area. This is considered a run and they continue to bat. The bowler continues to bowl un­til he has bowled six balls, which is called an over; then a new bowler takes his pia~ at the other end. This pattern continues until the wickets are all dislodged or thirty overs have been bowled. The four ways a batsmanis consid­ered out are: ( 1 ) bowled, which is when the ball hits a wicket; ( 2) a fielder catches the ball; ( 3) a run­out, which is when a fielder throws the ball in and knocks down a wicket before the batsman reaches the safety crease; (4) leg before wicket (LBW) out, which is when the batsman gets hit by the ball, but the umpire rules that it would have hit a wicket; and ( 5) stumped, which is when a batsman gets outside of his safety crease and the wicket-keeper knocks down a wicket before the batsman can get back into the four­foot box. The object of the game, as it is with most games, is to score more runs than the other team. When Sunday rolls around and the excitement of Saturday's football game with Purdue has worn off, a cricket match might just be worth your while. No matter what the outcome, it will probably be like nothing you've ever seen in your life_ 
Cubs 4, Expos 1 
Associated Press MONTREAL · Ryne Sandberg's sacrifice fly scored Bob Dernier from third in the eighth to lead the Chicago Cubs to a 4-1 victory over the Montreal Expos last ni~t. The victory, Chicago's fifth in six games, increased the Cubs' lead in the National League Eastern Divi­sion to seven games over the New York Mets. Dernier opened the eighth against Expos starter Charlie Lea, I 5-l0, by tripling. Sandberg followed wilh a deep fly ball. In the ninth, the Cubs loaded me bases on singles by Moreland, Dave Lopes and Jody Davis. Expos shortstop Argenis Salazar threw wildly after fielding Dernier's grounder, allowing Moreland and Lopes to score. George Frazier, 5·2, who worked two hitless innings in reliefofstarter Dennis Eckersley, earned the vic­tory. Lee Smith pitched a hitless ninth for h.is 30th save. Held to four hits by Lea, Chicago tied the score 1·I in the seventh before he could retire a batter. Leon 


D Pepperoni D Green Peppers D Mushrooms D Onions D Ham D Sausage D Ground Beef D Olives 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ 

Free Mug One coupon per pizza.
FREE. 
1
Good while supplies last. Fast, Free Delivery™
277-2151 


Limited Delivery Area.
Plaza 23 Center 

JTC NA 1ro' 2650
1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend 

L••••••••••••••••••••••J 
Durham led off with a double to left and scored on Keirn Moreland's single. 
The Expos used the speed of Tim Raines to take a 1-0 lead in the first. Raines singled and stole second and third, giving him 63 stolen bases for the season. He scored on Dan Dries­sen's grounder. 
Pirates 2, Mets 0 
PITTSBURGH· Rick Rhoden and Rod Scurry threw a combined five­hitter and Jason Thompson hit a two-run homer as the last-place Pit· 
tsburgh  Pirates  blanked  the  New  
York Mets, 2-0, last night.  
The  setback,  coupled  with  

Chicago's 4-1 victory over Montreal, left the Metsseven games backofthe Cubs in the National League East standings with 22 games left in the season. 
Rhoden, 12·9, allowed only five hits, struck out four and walked two. He faltered in the eighth when Ray Knight doubled and Mike Fitzgerald walked. Scurry came on to end the threat and earned his third save. 
Lee Lacy walked and stole second to start the Pirates' third before Thompson homered off rookie Cal-

D Double Cheese D Extra Thick Crust D The Vegi™ 
5 items for the price of 4: Onions, Green Peppers, Mushrooms, Olives and Extra Cheese 
D Domino's Deluxe 
5 items for the price of 4: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers and Sausage 
D The Price DestroyerTM 
Limited portions of 9 items for the price of 5: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers, Sausage, Ground Beef, Olives, Ham, and Extra Cheese 
Ir----------------------~ 
I Extra Credit: 

Free Domino's Mug with _;:;;=====--any pizza purchase. 1 
vin Schiraldi, 0-l, who was making his second major league start. He left after allowing two runs and five hits over five innings. 
Rhoden, 6-2 in his last eight deci­sions, was in trouble in the Mets' seventh when Keith Hernandez sin· gled and Darryl Strawberry walked. But Rhoden struck out Hubie Brooks and ended the inning by get· ting Danny Heep on a force play. 
Cardinals 6, Phillies 5 
ST. LOUIS. · Mike Jorgensen blasted a two-run triple with two outs in the eighth inning and Bruce Sutter earned his 39th save as the St. Louis Cardinals rallied for a 6-5 vic­tory over the Philadelphia Phillies last night. 
The setback was the fourth straight for Philadelphia, which fell eleven-and-one-half games behind Chicago in the National League East 
and only one-half game ahead  of  
fourth-place St. Louis.  
Right-hander  Charles  Hudson  

nursed a 5·3 lead through seven in­nings before the Cardinals erupted against reliever Bill Campbell, 6-5. Rookie Terry Pendleton led offwith 
a walk and stole second and Darrell 
Porter walked. 
Lonnie Smith's sacrifice bunt ad­
vanced the runners and Pendleton 
scored on Andy VanSlyke's sacrifice 
fly to cut the Phillies' lead to 5-4. 
David Green walked before Jorgen­
sen, pinch-hitting for Ozzie Smith, 
tripled to the wall in centerfield. 
Bob Forsch, 2-4, the fourth of five 
Cardinal pitchers, gained the win 
despite yielding John Russell's solo 
homer in the eighth. Sutter in­
creased his National League save 
record by pitching the ninth. 
Giants 14, Astros 2 
SAN FRANCISCO Craig Reynolds' grand-slam homer capped a six-run first inning and left-bander Bob Knepper fired a seven-hitter as the Houston Astros ripped the San Francisco Giants, 14-2, yesterday. 
Knepper, 14-9, also had two singles and three runs batted in. The Astros belted 16 hits. 
Bill Doran walked, stole second, and scored on Terry Puhl's single off Bill Laskey, 7-12, to start the game. Denny Walling doubled and one out later, Jerry Mumphrey was walked intentionally to load the bases. 

Now that you've registered for your required courses, it's time to choose your electives. 
1984 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
----------------------------------~ 


The Observer Friday, September 7, 1984 -page 18 
' . Women's tennis 


Irish go for national championship 

By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
This is it. This is the year to win the NCAA Division II national cham­pionship. 
At least that's what members of the Notre Dame women's tennis team say. Since the squad is in better shape, better spirits, and more am­bitious than last season, it will pursue its goal more aggressively than in the past. 

"It's do or die for us this season since it's our last one in Division II," explained Notre Dame head coach Sharon Petro. "The conference is in­sisting we move up to Division I, meaning we won't be in contention'\ ~ ' for NCAA national championships."
' 

The Irish begin their quest for the national championship today as the team travels to West I..ayfayette, Ind., to face the Purdue Boilermakers in their first dual meet of the season. 
This afternoon's meet against the Boilermakers promises to be a diffi­cult challenge for the Irish. Two years ago, the Boilermakers easily defeated Notre Dame, while last season the Irish rebounded to soundly defeat them. Now the Boilermakers are looking 
'• i .. ' to even the score.
,\, "I think it will be tough, but we'll 
' \\ pull through," says senior co-captain
¥\ : Usa l..aFratta. 
..,' 

The Irish will definitly miss the services ofjunior Susie Panther, who was injured earlier this week during practice. Panther, who usually plays number-one singles and number­two doubles, is expected to return to the line-up in time for next 
Associated Press 
The Big Tenfootball season opens in full force tomorrow highlighted by top-ranked and defending na­tional champion Miami's invasion of 14th-ranked Michigan before a sel­lout throng of 104,000 at Ann Arbor. 
Although Michigan coach Bo Schembechler would like to have played at least one game before en­countering the powerful Hur­ricanes, the possibilities of an upset loom big. 
Miami already has played two games, defeating then top-ranked Auburn, 20-18, Aug. 27, and follow­ing that with a 32-20 triumph over Florida last Saturday. The Hur­ricanes will be playing their third game in a period of 12 days. 
"Those were two physical games and we have a lot of injuries," said Hurricane first-year coach Jimmy Johnson. "The schedule is taking its toll, the players and the coaches are drained. We did not play as well as we can Saturday. We don't have the spark we had." 
In a way, Schembechler likes the idea ofopening against Miami. 
"Playing the No. 1 team is an inter­esting way to open the season," said Schembechler, "a little different than playing a non-ranked team. We're lookingforward to this game. 
"If I had my druthers, I'd like to have a couple of games under my 

weekend's meet against the Univer­"It will be hard to find Pam's sity ofIllinois. replacement in the doubles since "It's going to be tough without she was our best player and we Susie," says Petro. ''I'm confident could always count on her for a 
we'll win, but we'll all have to play · well." 
After the Purdue meet, the team plans to rejoin other Notre Dame students at the Hoosier Dome, and then remain in Indianapolis for a North Star Conference meet against Butler University on Sunday. The Irish expect to defeat Butler, and Petro is hoping to tally a score similar to last year's 9-0 rout. 

Sharon Petro 

The  loss  of  Pam  Fischette  to  
graduation  last  year  and  Greta  
Roemer  to  the  London  program  

next semseter will strongly affect the doubles competition. Their ab­sences force the Irish to find two new doubles tt~ams, and they are still searching for the two best combina­tions. Unfortunately, the sidelining of Panther this weekend compl­icates the doubles picture even fur­ther. 
Miami invades Michigan 

Big Ten season opens tomorrow 
belt," said Schembechler, who will start juniorJim Harbaugh at quarter­back now that Sandy Smith is gone. 
"Quarterback is our strong posi­
tion and we will throw more this 
year," promised Bo, who in the past 
has not been exactly a disciple ofthe 
aerial game. 

If the Wolverines are to spring an 
upset, they will have to stop the 
Miami passing attack led by Bernie 
Kosar who has passed for more than 
200 yards in six consecutive games 
and has three games of 300 or more 
yards. 

~ "Kosar has a good arm, is tall and blessed with good receivers," said Schembechler. 
Quarterbacks and ranked teams wilf highlight other Big Ten gamesSaturday. 
Ohio State, No. 6, will take on Oregon State; Notre Dame, No. 7, faces Purdue in Indianapolis'Hoosier Dome; 1Oth-ranked lowa will be home against rival Iowa State, and Northwestern, a 24-16 loser to defending champion Illinois in last week's season and conference opener, goes to 19th-ranked Wash­ington. 
The rest ofthe schedule finds Mis­souri at Illinois, Rice at Minnesota, Northern illinois at Wisconsin, In­diana at Duke1 and Michigan State at Colorado. 
Coach Earle Bruce of Ohio State has decided to start Jim Karsatos at quarterback in place of Mike Tomczak. Tomczak has recovered 

~~~~k(('' ~ 2t~.·.PJ....;enanisans~..,1,.. 'l ~:!l1 notre Dame's S1ng1ng and Dancing Ensemble • RUDITIODS MONDR'I, 9/1 0 IN 219 & 220 l!il'i)f)ag Rll interested should slqn-up ror 11 time slot at the INFO deslc in lefortune(l st Floo,-Lobby) or check In the Student Rttlulttes Office. Rudi1ion information can also be found in 1hoss places as weU as some music. All you talented smger /dancers. mustc1ans.techntc1ans and choreographers come on out of the of your closets • .-n.enanlgans All this & much Go excttmg places. and~ norlda t.aur more wilh do excttmg thtngs ~~prlng break, 1884 ~  

,_____ ONDtROSA. ·----,
p 
Sit.I\KHOUSE 
.; t' ~, II I • I .'; 'I 



iSan~~1ch $ls9 ! 
I I Fries and Pepsi : 
I Your choice of single Chopped 1 
l 
Steak or Fish Sandwich with french I 
·~ I 
fries and pepsi-cola. No carryouts,
•: 
I cannot be used with other dis-Il.: I VaUd thna Sept. 30, 1984 counts. Tax not Included. At partie-I '' ~ U.S. 31 N (Next to No. Village Mall) ipating Steakhouses. Co•poa '
' ' c 1982 PONDEROSA. INC 100d fol' ADYJN11't11 elze. , 
~-------------------J 
win," explained Lafratta. However, there are two new faces in the Notre Dame line-up who show great potential for the squad. Junior Izzy O'Brien, a transfer stu­dent from the University of Mic­higan, and freshman Michelle Dasso are both expected to add a new di­mension to the team. "Izzy will wind up in the middle of the line-up and Michelle will prob­ably be playing at number six," says Petro. "Michelle should move up in the line-up as she starts playing bet­ter." Last May, the Irish took a disap­pointing third place at the national tournament in Chattanooga, Tenn. In the semi-final round, Notre Dame lost to the University of Tennessee­Chattanooga, which eventually won the national championship. "It's disappointing because we came so close to winning and we really could have done it," explained l..afratta. "They were the national champs and, as we started to play, we realized we could win. They just happened to get more points. Now we know we can do it." Since the final matches of the na­tional tournament were lost in the third sets, Petro suspects intensive conditioning will give the team the boost it needs to win the national title. "Our emphasis will be on condi­tioning, anticipation and footwork," said Petro. "Ifwe work on that, then we'll stand a good chance ofwinning the nationals." 
from a broken leg suffered last May and is available. 
Purdue Coach Leon Burtnett has decided on his quarterback but refuses to announce it until gametime. It'll be between Jim Everett and Doug Downing. 
"We've prepared for both of them," said Notre Dame Coach Gerry Faust, who will go with sopho­more Steve Beuerlein, a starter in eight games last season. 
Wisconsin lost Randy Wright but Coach Dave McClain appears com­fortable with Mike Howard and said, "We like the progress Mike Howard has made and, hopefully, by mid­season we will not miss Randy Wright." 
Veterans will man quarterback positions at most Big Ten schools this season with Chuck Long at Iowa, Jack Trudeau at Illinois, Sandy Schwab at Northwestern, Steve Bradley at Indiana, Brett Sadek at Minnesota, and Dave Yarema at Mic­higan State. 

Notre Dame­Saint Mary's sports weekend 
TODAY soccer 
VS. Purdue 8 p.m. Cartier Field 
women's soccer Saint Mary's VS. Notre Dame 4:30p.m. Made leva Field 
TOMORROW 
football vs. Purdue 
12:30 p.m. Hoosier Dome 
SUNDAY 
cricket lndiavs. "The World" 
11:30 a.m. Stepan Fields 
soccer vs. Louisvi lie 2 p.m. Alumni field 
field hockey vs. Purdue 3 p.m. Alumni field 

233-7747 Ron Delaere 




Bloom County Berke Breathed 

W!M-'BlAAI.I 

fJlfi-IINP 

YK!TRIN5Kf 5UPf5 
lf(),tf3. 7Hkr5 'THE 
611~. &OOfl Nf61ff. 


Tank McNamara Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 



The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Oh, quit worrying about it, Andrew. They're just love handles." 
The Daily Crossw-ord 
ACROSS 38 Single part 68 Eternal 69 Declares
1 Protects 39 Above 8 Girl's best 40 Savior 
DOWNfriend, maybe 45 Peculiar 1 Extra large nail 
15 Famous box 47 Hackneyed owner 48 Builder's site 2 Draws 
16 Ruler 49 Clerical 3 Narrow waterway
17 Against the law vestment 4 Paradise18 Shiny ornament 52 Shielded from 5 Ship's progress 19 Sharp harm record
20 Imitative sound 54 Lubricant in falling 57 "September 6 Decorative 
hangings
22 Computer " 7 Quipfodder 59 Certain 8 Abandon hope 
23 Time zone abbr. metalware 24 The Fox 60 Years: Lat. 9 Malignant spirit 27 Mr. Rorem 61 Respire 10 Brazilian timber 28 Evergreen 64 Typical tree 
29 Nest 66 Shoemaker's 11 Repair 31 Hope's forte need 12 Instrument 34 Malicious 67 Specify by 13 Actor Nick 
burner name 14 Extreme fear 
21 Friend of 

Siam's king 24 Relieve 25 Sts. 26 Performing pair 28 Gala occasions 30 Derisive sound 31 Mongrel dog 32 Single 33 Denoting the 
center 35 "-got a secret" 36 Ply needle and 
thread 37 Attempt 41 Common abbr. 42 Deface 43 Beetles 44 Makeover 45 Jacketfeatures 46 Food fish 49 Walk easily 58 Of a country: 50 Sophia of the abbr. 
screen 60 Comedian 51 Wheat or rye Johnson 53 Andes beast 62 Article 54 Walking-63 "For-a 55 Metal mass jolly..." 56 Legal en· 65 Printer's 
cumbrances measures 
Thursday's Solution 

Friday, September 7, 1984-page 19 
Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. -Mathemadcal Colloquium, "Geometry of C.R. Manifords," Professor john Lee, Harvard University, Room 226 CCMB. 

•7and
9:30p.m.-SAPBFllm,"M*A*S*H," Carroll Hall, n. 

•7:30 
p.m. and 9:30p.m.-Film, "Entre Nous," An­nenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Friday Night Film Series. 


Saturday, Sept. 8 
•1 :30 p.m. EST -Football, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Indianapolis Hoosier Dome Stadium. 
Sunday, Sept. 9 
•1
0:30a.m. -Mass, Formal Opening ofthe School Year, Celebrant: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Homilist: Professor Timothy O'Meara, Provost, Sacred Heart Church. 

•II 
a.m. -Spanish Mass, Celebrant: Rev. Claude Pomerleau, C.S.C., Farley Hall, Everyone Welcome. 

• 
2 p.m. -Soccer, NO vs. Louisville, Alumni Field. 

• 
2-3:30p.m. -Reception, New Faculty Members, CCE. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 
7:1Sp.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 16 M*A*S*H 16 Baseball Pre-Game 22 Comedy Zone 16 NBC Baseball 22 Mov e · The Shadow Riders 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 46 Words ofUfe 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 46 Jimmy Swaggart Daily 16 Tonight Show 22 U.S. Open 22 Hound ofthe Baskervilles 46 Praise the Lord 16 Friday Night Videos 


l ~ 
j 
1 
I 
I j 
J 
l j 
l 
1 
A 
J 
j 


Why not make SENIOR BAR your meeting place for FUN EVERY night of the week? 
FRIDAY  SATURDAY  
Happy Hour 5:30-8  NO Victory Celebration!!!  
With our deliciousjresh burgers  OJ, dancing, food and drink!  
$1°0 Boilermakers  
...and more delicious food  14oz. drafts  $1 00  
Come by at night to help celebrate our  
upcoming victory followed by breakfast at  
South Dining Hall4:30 • 6 a.m.  

SOMEONE IS JUST WAITING TO MEET YOU...AT SENIOR BAR 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS 


Willie Nelson 
LIVE AT THE ACC 
September 19, 1984 at 7:30p.m. Tickets on sale at the S.A.B. Record Store $1250 & $1350 Reserved Seating 

.. 

Friday, September 7, 1984 -page 20





SRorts 
Irish soccer team ready for two home games 
ByPHllWOLF beginning of any season, you don't AssistantSports Editor worry about how many goals you make; what you worry about is 
Following a victory in its first creating offensive opportunities. I game ofthe season Wednesday night could care less if we score two or if on Cartier field, the Notre Dame soc­we score eight, but I care very much cer team will attempt to increase its if we have 2'; opportunities as record to 3-0 this weekend. Purdue opposed to 1 0. This is the thing you will be Notre Dame's opponent work for." tonight under Cartier's lights, and Louisville will take on the Irish Sun­One thing Grace says he will try to day afternoon on Alumni Field. Kick­do in order to keep a high level of offtonight is scheduled for 8:00, and play is to use many substitutes. By 
Sunday's game will begin at 2 p.m. using several players, the Irish coach 
Irish head coach Dennis Grace hopes also to keep up the intensity says he is not very familiar with ofhis team. either of this weekend's opponents, 
"I have a habit when subs go in to

but he is not very concerned about 
talk to them and tell them what Ithat. He says he usually can discover want done on the field," Grace ex­all he needs to know about a team in plains. "Then when the otherthe first 10 minutes of the game. 

players come off, I talk to them andThe Irish have not played the tell them what I saw in the game, soBoilermakers for three years, so they can think about it. 

none of the players on this year's team are familiar with Purdue either. "We'll shuffle even more as we get
When Notre Dame last met Purdue a couple people back a hundred per­
in 1980, a 5·1 victory gave the Irish cent. I figure the rules let me play
their third win in four contests with 18, and if I can be a little bit
against the Boilermakers. 
better of a team playing with a great"Purdue went varsity, and they're deal of substitution, I'm going to doupgrading their program," Grace 

it. 

says. "Exactly where they are now, or how far they've progressed I 
"Ifwe can play four or five people

really do not know," he admits, off the bench and maintain that samehowever. 
high level of performance, we're much better off," Grace continues.
The hish did meet Louisville last Obviously, 15 players can play withyear, and they came away with a 3-0 higher intensity for 90 minutes thanshutout of the Cardinals. Notre 11 players can. It's very simpleDame holds the edge in the three­

logic."

year series against Louisville, 3-0. 
Two players who will be counted"Louisville, I know, has scholar­on to keep up both the level ofinten­ships, and they're getting behind sity and the level of play thistheir program. To what extent, I weekend are captains Rich Her­don't know," Grace says. "I met with degen and Dom Driano. Herdegen,a person from Louisville this sum­who scored both Irish goals in Wed­

mer, and he said he expected big 
nesday's match, will be leading thethings in the future, but I don't know offensive attack, while Drianoif we're in the future, yet, for him. 

anchors the powerful Notre DameYou know, he may be talking about defense.

the future like 1992; I don't know." 
Grace says he thinks his team is onIn Wednesday night's contest, the the verge of an offensive explosion

Notre Dame defense appeared very 
this weekend, coupled with fine playstrong, except for one crucial error, from its steadfast defense. 

which led to IUPU-Fort Wayne's only goal. The offense, however, still 
"We created enough 

.seemed to be lacking the cohesive­
(opportunities) the other night," he 

ness it will need to develop if the explains, "and I think they're really team is to be successful. 
going to open up this weekend. I've just got a feeling." 
"Every day, we see a little bit of If the Irish do, indeed, open up, 

improvement (in the offense)," Purdue and Louisville will have a Grace says. I thought we did a good hard time trying to keep from being job (in Wednesday's game). In the shutdown. 

that receivers coach Mike Stock is counting on toplay complete rundown ofStock's 1984 receiving corps, in­the split end and flanker spots. Larry Burke gives a cluding the tight ends, in his story on page 15. 
India vs. "The World" 

Cricket comes to Notre Dame 
ByTOMYOON 
Sports Writer 
This Sunday at 11 :30 a.m. behind Stepan Center, the gentlemen's game of cricket will be played for the first time at Notre Dame. The game is being sponsored by the In­ternational Students Organization, and will showcase a meeting be­tween India, which is captained by Hemant Tiwari, and "The World," which is captained by Winston Grif­fin. 
Cricket, which is the mother sport of baseball, originated in England and later spread to its various colonies. The game is now played in England, Australia, the West Indies, India, Pakistan, New Zealand, Sri Lanka, and South Africa, a country which is banned from international competition. Cricket is the national summer sport for each of these countries, much as baseball is for the United States. 

The game ofcricket is played with two teams, each consisting of I 1 players who all dress in white. lbe field is oval-shaped and measures ap­proximately 100 yards by 70 yards. The 22-yard-long rectangular area in the middle of the field is called the pitch, and fans will find that this is 
where  most  of  the  action  takes  
place.  
There  are  three  positions  in  
cricket;  the  bowler,  the  wicket­ 

keeper, and the fielders. The bowler, who serves the same function as a pitcher in baseball, hurls the ball, which is made of leather and harder than a baseball, toward the batsman at about 80 miles per hour. But unlike baseball where the strike zone is horizontal, the strike zone is vertical from the ground up to the waist. 
Behind the batsman is the wicket­keeper, who is equivalent to the catcher, and the other nine players are the fielders, who play without gloves. At opposite ends of the pitch are wickets, equivalent to the bases in baseball. 
In playing cricket, one batsman is at each wicket, each able to hit the ball. The bowler starts by running from outside the pitch area and, upon reaching the pitch line, bowls the ball to the batsmen, who can hit it in any direction. If the ball is hit and rolls out of the boundary, the team is awarded four runs, but ifthe 
see CRICKET, page 17 


Was 1983 season slap that Irish needed? 
You may remember the old aftershave commercial where a guy get:'! slapped in the face and says, "Thanks, I needed that." Well, it may be too early to tell, but it appears that the 1983 football season may just have been the slap that Notre Dame -both fans and team, alike -needed. 
At the time the entire '83 season was unraveling, I doubt few people were thinking that this might be the season that finally got the Irish rolling. This still may not prove to be the case, but, with the Purdue opener only a day away, it really appears that everybody is approach­ing the season in the right way. 
What last season did was convince everybody sur­rounding Notre Dame football to calm down. This doesn't mean that people sat down and told themselves d1at they were losing their cool and that they needed to change. What it means is that all of us have finally decided to take a more low-key, let's-wait-and-see ap­proach. 
Last year at this time, everyone was talking national championship. The schedule was one of the easiest in a long time and, we were told, the team had finally put everything together. A 52-6 win over Purdue just added to the wild emotion. By the end of the year, though, everyone was screamtng for Gerry Faust's head and some were even talking about how they didn't care about football any more. 
This year, more people are talking about the bus trip to the Hoosier Dome than are talking about the ~me. Preseason polls are nice to look at, but most realize that they don't mean much. 
These types ofwild swings in emotion are so charac­teristic ofNotre Dame football fans. Notre Dame people 

Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 

can become so emotional, so fanatical, about their team that they reach the point of being obnoxious. When the team is winning, the coach and players are the most loved people in the world. But, when the team is strug­gling like it has the past three years, the coach and players have to shield themselves from the taunts, criticisms and "expert" solutions. 
That is why Notre Dame fans are the best around when things are going well, and brutal when things aren't. 
It appears now, though, that these fans, or at least the student body, have decided not to get too excited-yet. Everyone is as anxious as everfor the season to start, but they are being much more careful than in the past. They have learned to take nothing for granted. They have learned not to take it for granted that Notre Dame will go to a major bowl. They have learned not to take it for granted that Notre Dame will beat teams like Oregon and Arizona. They have learned not to take it for granted that God made Notre Dame Number One. 
Everybody knows that there is a huge amount of tal­ent on this Notre Dame team. But everybody also has learned that it takes more than talent to win football games. 
Even more importantly, the football team is begin­ning to realize it. It may be wishful thinking, but even emotional Gerry Faust seems to have calmed down. He isn't talking as much as he has in the past, preferring to keep his attention on the football field. He knows that he has been too much of a cheerleader during games. He knows that he can improve as a coach. And, as long as he realizes it, it's a step in the right direction. 
The players, too, have taken a much more business­like approach. They admit that they took a few teams lightly. They also realize that they sometimes got too emotional in games where the breaks went against them. They say that they are just going to go out and play 60 minutes of tough football. 
This all sounds great, but, ofcourse, all that matters is what happens on the field. Actions really do speak louder than words. By now, we all know this, though. 
Ofcourse, maybe all ofthis is wishful thinking. Maybe this season will turn out like the past three. Maybe the team will win big early and fold in November. Maybe everyone will be hanging "Oust Faust" banners from their windows. 
Then again, maybe not. 
If the team does well this season, the old fanaticism may come back. But, then, we don't want to look so far down the road. The only road we need to look down is Route 31 on the way to Indianapolis. 
If you recall that aftershave commercial, the hero of the story had lost control of his plane and was heading for a crash. Then the slap in the face allowed him to regain control. Notre Dame football needed a slap in the face to get back to its winning tradition. Let's hope that 1983 was that slap. 


