Law School -page 4 

VOL XVIII, NO. 70 tht· imkpcnut·nt ~tlllknt ncw~papt-r ~lT\ ing notn dame anti ~aint man ' THllRSDAY, JANUARY 19, 1984 


Frozen in their 
tracks 
While their owners cleared out for break, these cars in the D-2 parking lot were left behind to ex­perience a white Christmas, South Bend style. At left, a frozen auto awaits new life, u•bile the car above bas just escaped jmm its snowbound state. 
The Observer/Scott Hower 


Student dies during Christmas break 
A memorial Mass will be held tonight at 7 in the Morrissey Manor Chapel for resident Ken Furuhashi, who died during the Christmas vaca­tion. 
Furuhashi died Ntw Year's Eve in the coronary unit at St. Joseph Medi­cal Center after a sudden illness. He was stricken with flu-likt: symptoms on Christmas night and was hospitalized on Dec 28. The next dav he was transfered to the cardiac ca~e unit at St. joseph where he died three days later. 
Furuhashi was a 19H3 graduate of Clay High School in South Bend where he belonged to the track 


team, French Club and National Ken Furuhashi Honor Society. He had just com­pleted his first semester at Notre Dame where he made the Dean's list. A memorial scholarship fund in his name has been established at the 
University  through  the  Office  of  
Campus Ministry.  
After  a  Mass  in  Sacred  Heart  

Church onJanuary 3, Furuhashi was 
·buried in Cedar Grove Cemetery on Notre Dame Avenue. Several of his friends from Morrissey returned to campus to attend the funeral. 
Furuhashi is survived by his parents, Dr._ and Mrs. Yusaku Furuhashi, and a sister Mari. Dr. Furuhashi is the associate dean of the College of Business Administra­
tion. 


Hall food sales reopen as violations corrected 
HyDAN McCULLOUGH and]EFF HARRINGTON SeniorStaffReporters 
Several of the hall food sales. which were shut down for health violations by the Student Affairs Office at the end of last semester. have reopened after passing a second inspt·ction. 
But many remain dosed pending a follow-up inspection. according to Vice President for Student Affairs FatherJohn Van Wolvlear. 
As oflast night, food sales in Badin, Breen-Phillips, Carroll. Grace. Dil­lon. Flanner. Holy Cross. Howard. Pangborn. Stanford, and Zahm were reported to have reopened. 
Food sales operations still shut down include Alumni. Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher. Keenan. Lewis, Lyons, Morrissey, Pasquerilla East, Pasquerilla West, St. E<.!ward's, Sorin, and Walsh halls, according to food sales managers and dorm rectors. 
A letter outlining the health guidelines to be followed by dor­mitory food sales will be sent to hall rectors and student managers, Van Wolvlear said yesterday. 
The guidelines will not prohibit the food sales from selling specific foods but will specify measures that the dorm-operated food sales will be required to follow. 
"Within the next two days we're 

sending the  rectors two copies of  
guidelines  that  ( Enviromental  
Health  and  Safety Specialist  Mic­ 

hael) McCauslin has set up," Van Wolvlear said yesterday. 
The guidelines are not the same as those issued by the state or county for use in restaurants or those followed by the dining halls, The Huddle and other campus t(Jod­serving businesses, McCauslin said. "They have nothing to do with the St. Joe County Health Department." 
He added that the guidelines were "just drawn up for our office." and were designed as "basic general guidelines for food sales operators." 

An inspection program to be con­ducted by the Health and Safety Office is also being planned, accord­ing to Van Wolvlear. 
McCauslin noted, however. that he has not yet discussnl this program with the Student Affairs Offin·. "I foresee some type of in­spt·ction hut I have no idea what it will ht· or with what frequency," ht· said. I It-added that he hoped'to have the program set up by the end ofthis semester. 
The food sales were shut down during final exam week of last st·mcster. approximately a month af­ter an inspection oftht· t(>od sale~ hy the campus Environmental Health and Safety Office uncovered various health violations. "A letter was sent out that ceased 
food  sales  until  further  notice.  
McCauslin  inspected  some  and  
some  have  been  reopened."  Van  

Wolvlcar said. He added that those still dosed will he reopened pt·n­ding McCauslin's approval. 
This is the first time that managers of hall food sales have been given guidelines to he followed, McCaus­lin said. He added that he didn't know why any guidelines haven't been issued previously. "I don't think this problem had been recognized as a problem," he said. "Nobody was aware of the mag­nitude ofthe food sales." 
The state of the food sales have notably improved, according to McCauslin. "I've seen improvement already by fact of the publicity that they've gotten." he said. 
McCauslin said he is "more than happy to help" the food sales managers with any problem tht:y might have concerning health and safety measures. "This oftke is open for this type ofinformation." he said . 


President of American college in Beirut killed 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Two men with a silencer-equipped pistol killed the president of the American University of Beirut in the hallway outside his campus office yesterday. 
Malcolm Kerr died instantly from a bullet in the head. 
An amonymous caller said a pro­Iranian group called Jihad lslami, or Islamic Holy War, was responsible fl•r the slaying. The caller demanded anew that U.S. and French troops in the multinational force leave Lebanon "or we will shake the earth under their feet." 
li.S. special Middle East envoy Donald Rumsfeld arrived from Israel shortly afterward and met for five hours with President Amin Gemayel. State radio said they dis­cussed ways of easing tensions in Lebanon. 
In Washington. President Reagan said, "Dr. Kerr's untimely and tragic death at the hands of these despicable assassins must strengthen our resolve not to give in to acts of terrorists." 
Kerr, 52, a Beirut-born American 
known as an expert in Middle East­
ern affairs, was shot at 9: I 0 a.m. 
(2:10a.m. EST). 
Witnesses said thev did not hear 
the shots. but only . the sound ol 
Kerr'~> books, briefcase and umbrella 
hitting the floor. 
Coroner Dr. Ahmt·d Har.1ti said 2 
7.6'imm fatal bullet pierced Kerr's 
head from the right temple and 
exited just above the left ear, 
causing a massive brain hemorrhage. 
The bespectaded, gray-haired professor was the university's ninth president and took over in Septem­ber 19H2 while his predecessor, David Dodge, was in the hands of pro-Iranian kidnappers. Dodge was freed _July 2l after a year. 
Callers from the same group also have claimed several other attacks, including the Oct. 25 suicide truck­bombings at the U.S. and french military bases in Beirut. But proofof the group's existence has yet to emerge and one radical Shiite Mos­lem, Shick Hussein Fadlallah, said, "This organization does not exist. It is a telephone organization." 


The Observer Thursday, January 19, 1984-page 2 

In Brief 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, t'nivcrsity presi­
dent. anti William F. Buckley, Jr., nlitor-in-chief of the National Rer•ieu•, discussed the position of American Catholic bishops on nuclear warfare last week on Buckley's Public Broadcastin~ Service pro~ram, "Firing Line." The hourlon~ discussion aired locally on <:hannel .H anti was carried by other PBS stations across the nation. -Tbe()hs(•rr•er 
Preference forms for job interviews scheduled 
on Jan. 26 and 2-:' and the week ofJan. ~0 arc due before S p.m. today. Seniors can turn the forms in at the Career and Placement Service, H.oom 21 :~ Administration Building. -Tbe Ohsen•er 
Tomorrow is the last day to pick up resident 
assistant applications. The applications arc available in the Office of Stutknt Allain;. -Tbe Ohsen•er 
Dr. Robert Gordon, vice presidentfor att­
vancnl studies at Notre Dame, has been named chairman-dcct of the Council of (;raduatc Schools, the major organization for ~raduatt· t·ducation in tht· United States. Gordon will serve as chairman-elect for 198--! and will assmc the chairmanship in ll)8S. lie joined the Notrt· Dame faculty in 19S8 as an assistant professor of biology and assu mcd the vice prcsidt·m:y of advanced ~tud ics in 19~ l.-Tbe Ohsen•er 
Dr.Joseph Hogan, dean emeritusofNotre 
Damt•'s Colkgt· ofEn~inct:ring, has hn·n selected as a charter Fellow Mcmbn of tht· American Society for Engineering Education. The Fellow (;radc of mt·mbcrship was established this year to honor a ~rcatcr numhlT ofoutstandin~ ASEE members and is given by invita­tion only. I logan joint·d Notre Dame in 1967 as dean of the College of Fngint'l'ring. lie resignt·d the tkanship in 198I and became the first Notre Damt· fal·ulty mt·mbcr to a1.:hicve emeritus status at pre­rctirl'nR·nt agt·. Ill-currl·ntly represents the University in profes­sional sodctks anti industry. Hogan is a past president of the ASI'E.-Tbe ( )hserr•er 
Humor columnist Erma Hornbeck 
..Amt-rica's mistress of the mundane and journalist of the jejune," is orK of :-.cvl·n l'itizen:-. to earn "Dull Lifestyle" awards ti>r 198.~ from lntnnational Dull Folks tlnlimitcd. Ed Ml·Mahon, Johnny Carson's sidekick on the "Toni~ht Show," was also honored by the dub, which spl·citkally dtt·d his work in the field of dog timd commer­dais. Tht· dub's guiding li~ht and "chairman of the hort:d" is J.D. Stewart. a self-proti:sscd dull ~uy who works as a statistician at Eastman Kodak Co. Otht·r winners, so to speak. were: Dallas Cow­boys Coach Tom Landry; "(;ood Morning America" host David llartman;Judith Martin, the" Miss Manners" columnist; Perry Como. tht· ~I -}Tar-old croontT; and Bert of public television's "Sesame Strt'l't." 
Of Interest " . 
Many have called, hut few will he frozen. That's the prnliction for wni~ht when 500 pt·oplc -including 2SO Emil­~uidnl fn·:-.hmt·n -head off for Bendix Woods. It's called tubing, a sport that's not in thl' Olympics but ought to be, according to Fresh­man lkan Emil klhfman. Student llnion is sponsoring a bus for SO uppnclassml·n, and room is still availabk. Sign-ups arl· being held at tlw Stmknt l'nion lkcord Store in LaFortune. The cost is S2 and the hus kan·s at "':50 p.m. The tubing party is only ont· of several Sll Wdcomc Wt'l'k activitks; the ti.mcontinut·s tomorrow night with a \'ideo Party in< :hautauqua at 9 p.m. -Tbe ()!Jsen•er 
A club presidents' dinner, sponsored by the 
Otlkt· of Studt·nt Activitk~. will be held tonight in tht' LaFortunt' Student Center. The prcsitknts of all undergraduate student or­ganizations art· invited 10 the rcn·ption, beginning at S: IS p.m. on the first floor. and the dinner. ht·ginning at 6 p.m. in the Ballroom. Club prt·sitkms who did not receive an ith'itation should feel free to allt·nd. -Tbt• OIJsen•er 
Student government officials wm be 
nmdut·ting talb with studt·nts in tht· individl!al dorms tonight. A student senator and either the studt·nt body president, vkc prcsi­tknt or one of the cxn·ut ivc nmrdinators will he prt·scnt at each dorm. Tht· talks hcgin at .., p.m. in Cavanaugh, Carroll, Pangborn, Pasqucrilla West and Sorin halls. The 8 p.m. sessions will he in Brt'cn­Phillips. Farlt'y. Fisher and lloly Cross. All other halls had talks last night. -Tbe Ohsen•er 
You think it's cold now? The high today will hits above with partly cloudy skies, hut tonight tht· low will dip to an inhumane S hdow zt·ro. A SO pcrcclll chance for snow today, also. Occasional snow and very cold tomorrow. lligh around zero. Brr. ­
71Je Oh::l'rl'er 



Bishops' letter on economy: a push for real democracy 
The days of C.Y.O. boxing arc still alivt', but the matches no longer pit two sweating hulks wearing silk shorts. 
Instead the participants wear palliums or neckties and call themselves bishops or Republicans. 
Sparring in a ring the size of the world they have picked corners according to their views on nuclear deterrence and capitalism. 
With the pastoral on peace and war tucked firmly in 
their boxing gloves, U.S. bishops again arc ready to do 
battle with the Reagan Administration, this time over 
the administration's economic policies. 

The upcoming pastoral, "Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy," due to be released in late November, is the "two" in the U.S. bishops' one-two punch which should shake up an administration which has the habit of telling clerics to stay in pulpits. 
The bishops, ofcoursc, do not agree. 
They, much as lay leaders. want a chance to say what is on their minds and have an input into how the U.S. government works. 
"We do have a right to say what we feel and think and he a part of the consensus of public policy," said Arch­bishop Rembert Weakland of Milwaukee, chairman of the committee which will draft the pastoral letter. 
Weakland termed such claims that bishops should nut be involved in economics "very un-Amcrican." 
The bishops arc not without Catholic critics also. Many persons who silently dissented when the bishops entered the nuclear debate arc voicing opposition to the upcoming pastoral. 
Notre Dame President Theodore Hcsburgh told the bishops committee it may have been easier for them to have written their pastoral letter on peace and war than it will he to write the economics letter. 
Meeting here last month, the bishops' five-member :ommittcc spoke with theologians, politicians, cor­Joratc executives and union leaders to discuss what should go into that letter. 
At first glance, the conference might seem an attack on Reaganomics and a backhand endorsement of the Democratic candidate for president in November. 
But the strategy behind the upcoming economics pastoral is more than the unseating ofPresident Reagan. 
Without a doubt the economics pastoral will say some unpleasant things about Reagan policies, said committee member Bishop Peter Rosazza of Hartford, 


Conn. "I don't sec any way how it couldn't he anti­Rcaganomics," said Rosazza. 
But the pa~torallettcr will do more than attack rabid free enterprise and advocatt' socialism -it will be a continuing call to democratize and cum­munalize the US. political 
~::::::::::::; system. 
By democracy, the his· hops mean the concept in its most radical form -open participation by all citizen; in government. It's not ill foreign theory by an}: means, either. It's a~ American as the old­fashioned New Englan~ town meeting where everyone's vote counts as much as everyone else's. 
By community, the bis­hops do not mean Marxism -instead, they want to in­

still within the government a sense of commitment to people, not corporations or special interest groups. 
Some want the bishops to tell U.S. politicians that democracy should extend beyond the level of voting for a particular person. 
Politicians should "widen the scope of the decision­
• making process" to allow more persons to take part in the running of government, said Daniel Finn, economics department chairman and social ethics professor at Saint John's University in Minnesota. 
The four parts of the letter -economic planning, plight of the poor, employment and U.S. trade with dcvdoping nations -are rooted in the belief that economics is not a science ofnumbers only. 
As Hcsburgh told the bishops committee "Economics does not exist in a vacuum -it exists fo people." 
Observer note____----~~ 
The Observer is always looking for new talent. If you are interested in newspaper writing or newspaper production, stop up at The Observer office on the 3rdfloor ofthe LaFortune Student Center 
-The_Obs.erYer_ 
Today's issue of 
The Observer 
was produced hy: 
Cornposilionl:'tlitor.......... Carok l.augit'r Compo~·ltion..tssL~tant Maurl'l'n Murphy La_J'tJut Staff..................Janna Shwart~man l.isa Mark Visingardi <:tairl' Knc:uc:r Mik<· Colgan 1)•pes(•l/(•r.~ ............... Billlli~hducht-ck 
Tom Small /V(AU•s EtliltJr ............................ Amy StL·phan Cop1• Editor.................... Boh \'omkrheide 
Mark \\'orschc..·h Sports C:opr lid/tor............. Marc Ramirez Typists .......~ ...................... Mary lkrh Ponc:r At/ Dt•sign ... ................................. P:IUI Slota PhtJIOJ!.rtlpber ........................... S<.:()£( Bowc:r 
The Obeerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday lhrough Fnday and on home foolball Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The ObMrver IS published by lhe students of Noire Dame and Samt Marys College Subscnptoons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The ObMrver. P 0 Box Q Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Obaerver IS a member of The Auoclllted Preu. All reproductoon nghts are reserved 

NOW PILOT IS TWO POINTS UP ON THE COMPETITION. 

l


I If you love fine writing, now you can\l choose_betwe_en two Precise Rolling Ball p~ns 

;\ that wnte so fme yet flow so smoothly you II ~Ji wonder how we _made it possible. . ~~ . Onl_y T~e Pre:tse al!ows you to -:vnte ~eau­
~ hfully 1n ~1ther ~me pom_t or extra fme pou~_t·,j i ~· The pnce? Its even fmer. Only $1.19 eatl'l! 
PILOT PRECISE ROLLING.,SALL PENS. 
I 
•1t?. 2OF THE FINER THINGS IN LIFE. i 
-------------~ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, January 19, 1984 -page 3 
Henriot to address social values in careers at ND, SMC 
workshop at the Center for Social The lecture series is part of a new
director ofsocial analysis at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. Concerns before 5 p.m. tomorrow. course, People and _Justice, a follow­Henriot also will speak at CILA's The workshop, which starts at 9 a.m. up course to the Urban Plunge. Hen­annual social issues workshop Satur­Saturday at the Center for Social riot will also give a mini-workshop day. "At the workshop, Henriot will Concerns, includes lunch and a Mass ,geered toward faculty members and deal with how to take one's social celebrated by Henriot. The cost is students enrolled in People and conscience into one's career," said $3. Justice. 

Gene Paszkiet, head trainer, dies 
' 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Digger Phelps' basketball players Neu:s Editor have been wearing black bands on 
~ 
their shoulders in honor of Paszkiet. 
<jene Paszkiet, the head football An all-conference end for South 
trainer ~t the University for 31 years, Bend's Washington High School, 
died Jan. 6 in Chicago's Bernard Paszkiet served in the U.S. Coast 
Mitchell Hospital. Guard before entering Notre Dame 
Paszkiet, 62, had been a patient in in 1946. he played with the fresh­
the hospital since Dec. 26. man football squad and later joined 
A 1950 graduate of Notre Dame, the training staff as a student assis­
he served on the training staff of tant. 
New York University for two years Survivors include his wife, 
before returning to become trainer Patricia; two daughters, Mary 
of all athletic teams here. Paszkiet Patricia Latowski of Edwardsburg 
was inducted into the National Hall and Ann of South Bend; three sons,
Gene Pasziet

of Fame for Athletic Directors last John Robert and James, all of South 
June. people." Bend; five grandchildren; and a sis­
Paszkiet was "a Notre Dame man Faust said the football team ded­ter. 
through and through," said Gerry icated the game ball to Paszkiet two Memorial contributions may be 
Faust, head football coach. "He was years ago against U.S.C. and "it was made to the Gene Paszkiet Memorial 
not only an excellent trainer, but he the first time I ever saw him speech­Fund, which has been established at had an excellent rapport with young less. We will really miss him dearly." St. Joseph Bank and Trust Co. 
A Welcome Back Sale 
We accept student Check with N.D.ID 

WINE BEER
Bolla Wines 
Pete Carter, education officer for the "The workshop is not going to just The course is designed ro "follow Challenges for the Faculty in the
By PAT SAIN and 
Community of the International Lay be an intellectual exercise," said up on the discoveries and ex­1980's and Beyond," in the Center
ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
Apostolate. Carter, but a place where one can periences of the Urban Plunge," said for Social Concerns. 
SeniorStaffReporters 
get the "tools" to put one's social Coordinator ofjustice Education Es­"Notre Dame, as a Catholic Uni­Henriot was invited by CILA to conscience and career together. mee Bellalta. The 200 level course is versity, has a commitment to socialCan an engineering professor talk to students and faculty tonight Henriot will talk on Redressing In­"mainly for post Urban Plunge issues," said Carter. "There needs toteach both values and mechanics? 
and tomorrow on incorporating so­justice: "What Can We Do?" 4 p.m. people but is open to all students," be more for the socially concernedJesuit Peter Henriot, director of cial awareness into one's career. 
today at Saint Mary's in Stapleton said Bellalta. The majority of the 36 -student here. Notre Dame is verythe Center of Concern in Washing­Lounge ofLeMans Hall. students enrolled in the course have career-oriented, and as a Catholic"You do not have to be a socialton, D.C., says it's possible, and he'll worker to put your social con­Henriot's ~•.k .:ch at Saint Mary's is been on an Urban Plunge. school, there is a call to put socialbe on campus today through Satur­science into your career," said Car­the first ofa three-part lecture series conscience into our careers."
day to tell how. The three-part course --which 
ter. Henriot will deal with putting at Saint Mary's sponsored by :~)Stice Tomorrow, Henriot will give a
Henriot believes values have a consists of readings, a lecture series 
social awareness into "ordinary, Education which discusses the issue public talk entitled "A Call to Care:
place in all areas ofa career, not just and a paper --is designed to help
everyday, careers." ofinjustice. The other lectures are in Career Planning for a Social Con­
in a theology class, according to post-Plunge students reflect on their 
. f February and March. science" at 8 p.m. in the Library
Kathleen Maas Weigert, assistant Students can regtster for the experience. 
Auditorium. 
3.49 Budweiser LP 7.29 Jack Daniels 
7.29
750ml

Andre Stroh LP 6.65 
Dll(JIWe,ISel:li 
Kamchatka

Champagne • .,......,...,,...••••1 Michelob 24bottles 8.39 
750ml 
2.49 Vodka 
6.99
1 75L

=~I Heineken bottles 14.29
24 
CORDIALS 

Apple Barrell Schnapps Qm~kuyper 4.99 Amorita ~~aretto 4.99 Peppermint Schnapps Hiram 
Walker 
'r> I i( ) \' 

Tonight at 8, Henriot will speak to A key issue in the talk will be how Notre Dame faculty on "The Cath­to integrate social values and con­olic University and Social Concerns: cerns into teaching, said Wiegert. 
The Department of Theology Announces THEO 241 -Women in Theology This is a Lecture Series: 
7:30 pm Center for Soc. Concerns Jan. 26, Feb. 14, March 12, Aprii11,May9 
Those who wish to follow the series for credit will be responsible for brie(readings for each and a short paper at the end. Variable credit 
Lecturers: 

F. Ellen Weaver Naomi Janowitz Eileen Kearney 
Collett Cox Susan Conley Weeks 
"WE BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES" JUST BRING IN THEIR AD. 
PRICES GOOD THRU JANUARY 21 I 1984 

LIQUOR 
Tanqueray 
8.99
750ml

?.tr<?ab. "Grenades" 9.69 
Everclear 
7.99
750ml 

QUARTS Bacardi 151 
7.99
750ml 

Peppermint Schnapps
Budweiser 8.99 
Hiram

Old Milwaukee 6.99 
Walker 10L 4.99 
Budweiser Old Style
HALF BBL HALF BBL
29.99 
"f ••

Stroh ....T 9bt? Milwaukee23.99 
HALF BBL 
27.89 

Michelob 
36.99 kHs~ 22.99
HALF BBL 

The Observer 'Thursday, January 19, 1984 -page 4 

Natural family planning method works well, says Washington M.D. 
By BARBARA HARDIN 
Neu•sStaff 
An advocate of natural family planning, Sistt:t IIanna Klaus, a medi­cal doctor and director the Natural Planning< :entt:r in Washington D.C., said last night that the natural mt·thod of birth control is one that works -and worb well. 
A~ a Mnlical Mis~ion~ ~ister who a~ worknl in many Third World n>untrit:~. Klau~ h;t~ crKouragcd natural planning among many couplt·~ with ~llt'l't:~~ful re~ults. 
Natural family planning. otht-r­wbt· known a~ tht· Billing~ <>vula­tion Method. wa~ devbt·d as a more 

a 2 perc<:nt failure rate, a rate lower and tt·mperature methods which 
dfectiw alternative to the calt-ndar 
than most artificial birth control were generally indficit:nt. Klaus <:X· 
devices. plained simply that as the ovary in 
She said th<:re have been I00,000 new users ofthe method since 1980.

the tt:malt-r<:aches a particular kvd 
Klaus described the method as the c<:rvix. During this tim<: of krtility, 
•>f estrog<:n, mucous llows from th<: 
only one that dt·mands hoth from tht· beginning of mucous flow 
partners to coop<:rate and expressed until tht· li>urth day after its peak, a 
ht:r ft:ding that abstinence is not Jif­man and woman should abstain from 
lkult for couples who love each sexual intt·rcourse if they do not 
other. To r<:affirm this statement, de~ir<: conception. 
she looked out at her male­
dominated audience, smiling, and 

Klau~. a doctor of ohstctrics and said, "As I look around thh room I gynecoloh'Y at the St. Louis l lnivcr­sec everyone is abstaining." ~ity School of M<:dicine, showed hcr Campus ,\1inbtry at Notre Dame audit·nce a s<:rit:s of slides to explain plans to hegin classt·s in the near tht· proc<:ss in dt:tail. futur<: on fertility awareness to all in­
Klau~ ~aid the Billings Method ha~ terest<:d students. 

Law School expansion announced 
Spc.·clalto Thl' Ohserver 
It·~  a  PA< .L  n·port drt·am com<:  
true.  
A S·l  million  t·xpansion  of tht·  

Notn· Dame Law School ha~ htTn annountTd h) tht· I 'nivn~ity -a JIIO\'e that wa.' nTommt·mlnl hy tht· Priorities and <.ommitmenr.-tiJr Ex­cdkntT n:port 
Jlniwr~ity l'rovo~t Timothy 0'1\kara submittt·d till' PACE report to I'ather Tlwmlort· I k~buq,:h, l 'ni­wr~ity prt·~itknt. on Nov. 50. 19H2. 
lmpn>ving the library fadlitk~ is a major rt·aS<m for the extension. The Kresge Law Library now has about 

160.000 volumt:s, and its rH..·w capacity will he approximatdy .~00,000. Law School Dean David T. Link said there would also he addi­tional classrooms and oftkt· spatT, a., wdl a.~ a moot court. Enrollment of the ~chool, now approximately ')OO, will increaS<: slightly. 
Tht· expansion, which includes an umkrground kvd as wdl as three above-ground stories, is expected to he to the cast and southca.~t of the 
Doctors in Kentucky hope for 1st test-tube pregnancy 
LOlllSVILI.E, Ky. -Doctor~ at Norton Hospital rt·movnlcgg~ from a 52-year-old woman Tut·~lay in the tlr~t attempt in Kt·ntul·ky to t·on­cdn· a hahy in a pla~tic di~h. 
Dr. Martin 'us~man. director of tht· hospital'~ new in-vitro fertiliza­tion dinic. said the q,:gs would he rl'lurnnl to the woman's womb aficr thl'\' had been mixed with sperm from her hushand. 

Tht· Jefferson County woman, who rcqucstnl that her name not he used, has been unahk to conceive a child norm;tlly because her Fal­lopian tubes arc hlockcd. 
The so-call "tcst-tuhc hahy" pro­cedure docs not guarantee pregnancy, Yussman said 
I I I
Enjoy Barclay's 2nd Annual 
I I




PRIME RIB I 
I

FEAST I 
c\'1
sl\~~~~~~ 
~eiu\at 

I I 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend 
For a limited time you  
can enjoy our stan­ 
dard cut of succulent  
prime rib, a bottom­ 
less tureen of soup,  
corn bread and your  
choice of baked  
potato, home fries or  
nee mason.  
With this coupon  
you pay only $5.951  
Unbeatable!!  
Offer good dmner  
hours only. ilm1t of  
2 d1nners per cou­ 
pon May not be  
used w1th other  
coupons or a.Qv.t;~r­ 
tlsed spei:lcfi'$.  
Does not mclude  
tax or t1p.  
OUR REGULAR MEIIU  I ~?;  
IS ALSO AVAILAILL_  I  
I  

Clip this coupon--~ offer expires 3/10/84 1 
I Ph. 272-5478 I 
';4-year-old tudor gothic building. It will add approximatdy 55,000 square feet of space, The Bloomington, Minn., firm of Ellerbe Architects and Engineers has been retained to draw up plans. 
The addition is the latt·st in a long line of expansions for the Notre Dame Law School. founded in 186l) as the nation's first law school under Catholic auspices. Most recently. it underwent a $ I .6 million renova­tion in 1972-73. 
O'Meara said the University soon would announce a (Undraising effort to offst:t the cost ofconstruction. He noted that the addition, coupled with a new Notre Dame Law Center in London dedicated last July, "are significant steps towards achieving the high expectations we have for the Law School." 


SisterHanna Klaus points out the  her lecture last ntgbt in the lil1mry  
cult•tmtages ofnaturalfami(l'plan­ auditorium. See Barhctra Hardin's  
ning as a method ofhi1·th control at  ~tory•  at left.  

MBA taxation concentrate scheduled to ~~gin in June 
Hy BOB VONDERHEIDE 
Neu•s Edit"r 
MBA students at Notre Dame will 
he able to concentrate in taxation 
according to a new sequence of 
studies planned to begin in june. 
The degree offered would he one ofthe hottest on the college employ­mt·nt market, according to James Wittenbach, coordinator of the 
program. 
Representatives of some major accounting firms had a~ked the Col­lege of Business Administration to begin such a program. About 50 col­leges already offer the taxation con­centration, including five of the Big Ten schools. 
"I expect the firms to really he going after these students," Witten­bach said. "I can vinually assure anyone with this degree that they will get several job offers." 
An increasingly complex series of 

tax at·ts enacted during the last I 'i years ha~ forced public acnfnting 
firms and other financial insti  tions  
to go searching for highly trai  ·d tax  
professionals.  
Officials of two major ace<  rlting  
firms in the U.S. have report<:  dou­ 

bling and tripling the number of taxation specialists on their staffS in the last five to seven years, 
Tht· goal ofthe taxation sequence, Witt t enhach said, is to train students to integrate tax factors into business planning and other decision making. More and more, accounting firms must be able to speak the same lan­guage as other professionals, espe­cially lawyers and auditors. 
A core of I 9 hours of tax courses will he included in the I !-month program which extends through one summer session and two regular semesters. One or more class in the Notre Dame Law School will also he required. 

St. Georges University Barry University~School of Medicine Miami Shores, Grenada, Florida West Indies • 


The M.S./M.D. Option 
A Joint Biomedical Science Program of St. George's University School of Medicine and Barry University. 
ST. GEORGE's takes pride in announcing Its eligibility for the 
GUARANTEED STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM Sponsored by The United States Dept. of Education 
1982 Educational Commission For 
Foreign Medical Graduates Exam Results 
... for U.S. Citizens passing ECFMG in medicine from all schools in English speaking countries with 5 or more ~xams taken SCHOOL & COUNTRY o %PASSING 100 
St. George's University. Grenada Royal Coli of Surg.. Ireland Un1v of the Ph11tpp1nes. Ph111pp1nes Kasturba Mf'd. Coil , lnd1a Cf'bu lnstltutf' of Mf'd1c1ne. Ph1i1pp1nes Unrv of the East. f'h1lrpp1nes Lyceum Northwestf'rn, Ph11tpp1nes Far Eastf'rn Unrvers1ty. Ph11tpp1nes Umv of Santo Tomas, Ph1lrpp1nes Amencan U of the Canbbean, Montserrat Perpetual Help Coil of Laguna, Ph1l1pp1nes Ross Un1vers1ty. DominiCa Umv of the West Indies, Jama1ca St LOUIS Un1vers1ty. Ph1l1pp1nes Southwestern Un1vers1ty. Ph1l1pp1nes Virgen Mrlagrosa lnst of Med . Phll1pp1nes Manrla Central Umvers1ty, Ph1l1pp1nes Sa1nt Luc1a Health Sc1ences u,n1v . St. ~uc1a 
.
I :J 'l"-J J, :I 'I[-} ·-ir,· . i :· ::: ~ ._ ' ' 1~ ;Q)ovl' ,~r'1k1hg~ WN~ l.lkf'n lrom Rtsults ol I~~ ECFMG El.lmlncliiOm, pubii!J)rd by Thr EducalJonetl Commlttf'r lor Fort>19n Mfflt{ ,:~1 Gtetduat~\ Prul.tdf'lpnM Pf'nn!.ylvetntil 
--•t, l-:, d2!~illc ' ~ 
For in~uiries regarding this unique program 
80% 
75% 
75% 
60% 
47% 44% 44% 
43% 42% 41% 40% 
39% 33% 33% 
32% 
.129%
16% 13% 
' 
,, :.:·;-':'iJr;1e,...~·· 
commenc~ng in May of 1984, conta(Lh·.
; ;~ ~; •·1QOl9V~'' 
St: Geqrge's University  : United States and Canadian citizens may direct  
·I  ·School of Medicine  j  'lnqulries_to The North American correspondent:  
Attn: C.\/. RAO. Ph.D.  Foreign Medical School Services Corp.  
Grenada, West Indies  One East Main Street  
Bay Shore. New York II 706  
1516)665-8500  

•:nlnr: 
St. Geor¥'-' Unlverslt:f 
Is proud to be rankeq . NUMBER I for the second year lnarowl 


·-----~---------------· 
The Observer Thursday,January 19, 1984-page 5 
Arts and Letters to start institute 

The Irish Gardens 
Stay on campus and save $$$ by letting us take care of yourflower needs 
Dial M-U-M-8 (6867) to place an order 
Located off the Nazz in the basement of LaFortune 
Hours: 12:30-5:30 

Keeping Up With The Times 
Campus subsciptions to The New York Times are at a 30% savings for single copy price. (Discount only for weekday paper.) Daily discount rate is 35¢ Newspapers can be picked up at the Saint Mary's College Bookstore after 8:00a.m. Monday through Friday, and after 9:00a.m. on Saturdays. 
The Sunday papers are available on a subscription basis also, but no discount is given. Sunday papers can only be picked up on Monday. 
Spring Term Monday-Friday $24.15 Monday-Saturday $28.00 Monday-Sunday $55.50 Sunday only $27.50 
The rates above do not include receiving the papers on holidays or 
during exam week. To subscribe, please take this form to the Saint Mary's College Bookstore. To guarantee your paper for the first day on January 23, please sign up by January 19. Any orders received after January 23 will be prorated according to the number of delivery days left in the term 
A New York Times lD card will be issued to you when you sign up. Please show this lD card each day when you pick up your paper. 
Please make check payable to the St. Mary's College Bookstore. Name Address ~;.:..
1 .::::~>•_·-----------""'":""'"...............--"'".........,.... 
·---..,.."", t-.... 1~<!'"•• ...,or,J.--~­
Phone Class or Department 
Special to The Observer Directed by Arts and Letters As­sociate Dean Nathan 0. Hatch, the 
Notre Dame's College ofArts and institute will be comprised of two Le: ters has announced the forma­committees. The Planning and tion ofan Institute for Advancement Priorities Advisory Committee will ofScholarship in the Liberal Arts, the serve as a resource to assess the col­core of a major undertaking to en-lege and its departments and aid in 
-hance teaching and research in the long-range planning. The Develop­humanities and social sciences. ment Advisory Committee will assist 
Dr. Michael Loux, dean ofthe col­with financial development, lege, described the institute and its proposal writing and foundation goals yesterday during his "state of relations. the college" address to Arts and Let­The institute has four goals: To ters faculty. pursue active self-assessments ofthe 
The institute will operate as an college, its departments and faculty trm of the College of Arts and Let­members; to promote greater in­ters, organized as a flexible task volvement by departments and force rather than a research in­faculty in the broader academic 
Stitute, to strengthen the college's commnity; to explore more creative 
programs and fuculty. means offuculty recruitment; and to 



Burst pipes only security worry 
ByJOHN NEBLO pipes on campus to burst. After believes there is little chance the News Staff discovering the burst pipes, security goods will be recovered, said Terry. officers were assigned to accom­
"I feel sorry for them," said Terry. 
Two reports of theft in Stanford pany the repairmen and oversee the Hall were the only incidents ofnote repairs. 
According to Terry, s~veral spe­
during an otherwise quiet Christmas Meanwhile, -two students cial security measures were taken break, according to Notre Damt reported -in separate incidents -during the break. Alarm systems Director ofSecurity Glenn Terry. that their rooms had been broken in­were set up in dorms which have But Old Man Winter tried his best to. A class ring and a Sony cassette been chronically plagued by thefts to upset the calm. recorder were reported stolen. in the past and seven extra security South Bend's sub-zero tem­Security has no leads as to who guards were hired to oversee the in­peratures caused many of the water may have been responsible and stallation of the new telephones. 

With 984,7 60 students receiving college degrees this year...you'll need more than a diploma to get ahead. 

Think training. Think Merrill Lynch. 
We offer four training programs functions that support Merrill Lynch that can separate you from the crowd products and services. and put you on a fast track to success: 
See your Placement Office, or
Corporate Intern 
write for an application to: College

Program 
Relations, Merrill Lynch, One Liberty An 18-month training program Plaza (165 Broadway), New York, NY encompassing sales, securities 10080. 
research, trading, marketing and finance which exposes you to the financial services industry. 
Accelerated Operations Management Program 
Train to direct and control a staff responsible for processing trans­actions and maintaining customer accounts in this 9-month program. 
Corporate Systems Program 
Three months of classroom 
We'll be on 
your campus TUESDAY, 





FEB. 7 

training will prepare you for a career 
in either Systems Programming or 

~!~tLynch
Business Applications. 
· Abreed apart.
Operations Intern Development Program Merrill Lynch is an Equal 
· :..t:•••..:_ A two-year program combining Employment Opportunity employer and classroom and on-the-job training pro­encourages applications from females, vides an overview of the operations minorities and all other persons. 


r-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday,)anuary 19, 1984 -page 6 

Soviets said to violate arms control treaties 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Puhlic charges 
hy tht· lkagan administration that 
tht· Soviet I Inion might he violating 
arms comrol trc:atic:s will only ham­
pt·r efforts to reach nc:w agrc:t·mc:nts 
to curb nudear weapons, two for­
mt·r chic:f li.S. negotiators said yes­
terday. 
(ic:rard C. Smith and Paul Warnke: 
said at a nc:ws conference that the: 
administration should have: c:x­
haustt·d all private: and diplomatic 
means of trying to assess the: c:xtc:Jll 
of Soviet cheating hc:fort· going 
public with the: charge. 
Smith was chic:f negotiator of the: 
SALT I arms control agrc:c:mc:nt con­
duded during the: Nixon administra­
tion, and Warnke: headed the: U.S. 
tt·am that negotiated the: SALT II 
treaty in I979. 
!J.S. t·omplaints about the: allc:gc:d 
Soviet violations were: raised at a 
mn:ting of reprc:sc:ntativc:s of the: 
two countric:s la..o;t f.ill, hut the: 
Sovit-ts havt· not lilrmally 
rc:spondnl, Smith and Warnke: said. 
Tht·y said the administration 
should have: awaited a Soviet reply 
hc:forc: it made: public daims ofviola­
tions. 
"We: havt· to ask whc:thc:r the: ad­ministration is more: interested in charging violations than in preserv­ing trc:atic:s," Warnke said. 
The administration, in a dassified rt·port pn·parnl for President 
Radio Marti endangers credibility 
Associated Pres..o; 
W ASIIIN<iTON Presidc:Jll lkagan was wid yc:stt·rday that tht· Voice: of America's crc:dihility could ht· taintnl hy a congrt·ssional deci­sion w makt· it ht·adquartc:rs for Radio Marti, a nt·w li.S.-IInancc:d radio station hcmtnl at Cuba. 
In ib annual rt·port, till' li.S. Ad· 
visory Commi~~ion on Public 
Diplomac:y also said administration 
dlilrts 10 t·xplain Projc:u 
lkmocracy, a program aimt·d at 
promoting dc:m01.:ratic institutions 
worldwillt·, han· gone: awry, creat­
ing "puhlic suspicion and misun­
tlt-rstamling." 
Tht· report gt·nl'fally prt·sc:ntc:d a favorahlt-picturt· of the govc:rn­mt·nt's dlilrts 10 tdl its swry ovt·­st·a..o;. Commission chairman Edwin.J. Fc:ulnc:r Jr. lam.lt-d tlu-administra­tion lilr t·nding a "starvation" diet of rdiahlt-information availahk to some: nations. 
On tht· nc:gatin· side:, tht· bipar­tisan hoard advist·d Reagan that it was "not sound public policy" to plan· Radio Marti under tht· VOA. Some: vit-w tht· station as an anti-Cuban propaganda operation rathn than a source: of nc:ws. 
Tht· rt·port to tht· prc:sidc:nt and Congress said the: statiiin should 1..·omc: undt·r tht· Board for lntc:rna­tional Broadcasting, which operates Radio Frc:c: Europe: and Radio l.iht·rty. both so-called "surrogate' broadcasting opl'fations intt·ndc:d to provk news ahout the: countries to which thc:y arc: aimed. 
'Illl· commission said it would kt-c:p dose: watch ovc:r Radio Marti to makl· surt· its broadcasts of news ahout Cuba to Cuha do not violate VOA standards. 
The: VOA, whit:h broadcasts in 4.2 languagt·s worldwide:, is under con­grt·ssional mandate: to provide: ac­curate: and ohjc:ctivc: news about tht· llnitnl States and world t•vc:nts as well as to intc:rprt·t li.S. policy and institutions to the rt·st of the world. 
Reagan to submit soon in rc:sponse to a rc:quest hy Congrc:ss, is accusing the: Soviets oftwo violations and five "probable" violations of several arms treaties and misunderstand­ings. 
Details of the allegations were made public Friday by a senior State Dc:partmc:nt official who spoke only on condition that he not be iden­tified. The: report includes charges that the Soviets illegally tested two new intc:rcontinc:ntal ballistic missiles, instead of the one per­mitted under the 1979 trc:aty, and that misleading data is transmitted 
from missilc:s in flight. 
"Nothing is really new in any of these claims," Smith said. "They have: hec:n around for a long time." 
"It's cc:nainly premature: to make these charges at this time," said Warnke:. "facing thc:m with a public charge of violations will not produce: the: desired result" of hal­ting tht· allc:gc:d violations. 
;. 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How man~· corporations would be willing to pa\' vou over $1000 a month 
during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company 
:~Iter gruduauor;'? L"nder a spPcial :\ii\)' program we're, doing just that. 
Its called the :\uclear PropulsiOn Off1cer Candidate-College Program. 
And under lt. you'l_l not onl.v get great pay during your junior and 
sentur -'·ears. but alter graduation you'll receive a vear of valuable 
graduate·ie\'cl training that is not a\'ailable from any other employer. 
II you arP a jumor or senior majoring in math, engineering or ·phystc<.ll sctenCl'S. fmd out more today. And let vour career pav off while still in college. • · For· more informrtion, call the l'\a\:al Management Programs Office at: 
Call Toll Free 1-800-382-9782 
Navy Representative will be on campus November 30 and December 1, 1983 
" ... A man's reach 
should exceed 
his grasp, or what's 

a heaven for?" 
-ROBERT BROWNING 
Steelcase is looking for business. marketing, engineering or any information systems graduates whose vision exceeds the horizon. We manufacture and market quality office furniture worldwide. and can offer you a rewarding tomorrow. 
Contact us at your placement office on the date shown below or write: Donna Larko, College Placement. Steelcase Inc.. P.O. Box 1967 Grand Rapids, Ml49501. 
World's leader in the manufacturing of office furniture. 
Steelcase interviews: February 8, 1984 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday,january 19,1984--page 7 
!Shultz-Gromyko talk termed ~~Iccess 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko delivered a blistering attack on U.S. policies yesterday, but in a private meeting later he and Secretary of State George P. Shultz appeared to make headway toward better rela­tions. 
A U.S. official said Shultz and Gromyko shookhands before and af­ter their meeting and "were even smiling" afterward. 
It was the first too-level contact between the superpowers since U.S.-Soviet arms talks broke off in November. The U.S. official called the discussion "good" and progress was made on many issues. 
There was no word of a follow-up session but the official, who asked for anonymity. said only "future con­
.tacts were addressed.·· In his address to the 35-nation European Disarmament Con­ference. Gromyko accused the United States of making "maniacal
Iplans" for nuclear war. He said, "New missiles. bombers and aircraft carriers are being churned our in some kind of pathological obses­sion 
Soviet Union 
deploys new 
nuclear arms 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -A story in the Soviet army daily about missile forces in East Germany warned yesterday that the Kremlin is proceeding with ef­forts to increase its medium-range nuclear arsenal. 
While suggesting that new opera­tional missiles may have been deployed, the story stopped short of making any such announcement. Some political observers said Mos­cow may be trying to avoid appear­ing too menacing while foreign ministers of 35 nations are in Stock­holm to discuss European security. 
The article was displayed on the front page ofthe newspaper Red Star and excerpted by the Tass news 
agency. 
"It's possible that the Soviets were trying to reassure the military and get the word out at home and abroad that they are taking steps to respond to the deployment of NATO missiles," said one Western arms specialist who requested 
anonymity. 
At the same time, he said, the Soviets may have wanted to avoid a major, specific announcement of new missile deployments in East Germany during the Stockholm con­ference. 
The Red Star story was not played on state radio newscasts and did not appear in the evening government newspaper Izvestia. 
It spoke ofpreparatory work com­pleted at a missile base. Tass reports based on the story gave conflicting impressions about the status of the Soviet missile deployment program in East Germany. 
After the NATO deployment in Western Europe of U.S.-built missiles began in November, a Tass statement .signed by President Yuri 
V. Andropov said the Soviets would suspend the Geneva medium-range arms talks until the West "showed readiness" to remove the missiles. 
Westnn diplomats say the Soviets have always had missiles in East Ger­many and are believed tonave been installing new ones in both nations for some time. including during the Geneva arms talks. 
Asked about Gromkyo's address, 
the U.S. official said Shultz 
"recognized it was a speech, but he 
took his normal, constructive at­
titude toward doing business with a 
foreign minister." 
The meeting at the Soviet Embas­
sy lasted five hours and 10 minutes 
-two hours more than expected. 
Shultz then phoned a report to President Reagan, who joined. with him this week in urging the Soviets to seek reconciliation after several months of deadlocked negotiations and public recriminations. 
The U.S. official said the talks covered the state of arms control, security issues, human rights, Central America and regional and bilateral questions, but he gave no details. 
On Tuesday. administration sources said Shultz would suggest that U.S.-Soviet arms talks resume on some level even if formal negotia­tions remain stalled. 
The Soviet Embassy refused to dis­cuss the meeting. 
r--------------------------------------------­
Pandora's Books .. Pandora's Books Pandora's Books ... . . . . . Pandora's Books 
937 So. Bend Ave. (4 blocks off campus) Open Every Day of the Week...................... Phone 233-2342 
Used Books for the Following Courses: 
Am. Studies English 470 253 109 475 273 114 490 355 180 4928 450 186 494 470 323A 496
I 
Anthro 3238 522C
I 
110 324 Gov'tI 223 330 141I 482 333 180 I Arts/Letters 362A 340 I 212 372 342 I Commun. 373 343 110 383 His!
I 
135 3608 111
I 
140 391 180
I 
180 393 195 
~ 
291 3948 216
I 
Econ. 395 332
I 
180 396 3708I 486 441 418
I 
Mgmt. Pro LS 362 242 Philo. 282 101 342 180 346 195 382 221 442 222 446 223 482 
226 Psych. 
232 180 241 Socio 243 102 246 180 259 314 
302 And many more 307 classes too 420 numerous to list 435 533 583 
Special Order Service On All Books: 25·50% off on books-48 hr delivery
I I 
Bring in this ad and we will give you an additional $5.00 off
I 
I on any purchase over $50.00 (valid through Jan. 31, 1984)
I 
~-------------------------------------------­
CORKTOWNE Ll UORS,INC. 
1841 OUTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23, %mile west of Martin's Supermarket 

Bud Light §!fa~hs Kegs 27.99 Schlitz case qts 8.09 case qts. 7.99Old Style Lowenbrau or Strohs Michelob 8.99hL~ht 5.99 24cans 6.77 ...-,.. HeinekenLittle King 15.49bL~!~ King 8.69 case 7oz. 5.49  
Seagrams 7 Fleischmanns Early1.75L 10.99 Vodka TimesJack 1.75L 7.49 750ml 4.99 Daniels Canadian J & B Scotch 10.99750ml 7.69 LiterMist CrownBacardi 750ml 4.77 RoyalRum Tanqueray 750ml 10.99 750ml 4.99 Gin Hiram WalkerAmaretto 750ml 8.99 Schnapps&Dolce Piccola (Kaluha 750ml ~.99750ml 4.99 iSubstitute)750ml 5.49  
-Zonin Lambrusco 750ml 2.29 Taylor L.C. Boones SoftFarm 1.5L 4.79 750ml 1.39 M &RAsti 750ml 7.99kLybfraumilch 2.99 Gallo TableHenri WinesMarchant 1.5L 2.99 Champagne 3.99  Spend Your Spring Break in FT. Lauderdale WIN 2 ROUND TRIP TICKETS from Corktowne Liquors Details available at store Contest begins 1/23/84 Must be 21 yecjlrs old to win -:.· ,4•  
CHECK OUR LOWPRICES EFFECTIVE TO 1/21/84 EVERYDAY PRICES277-6805  

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~i~~~~()__i_ll__t______________ __y_,J_~_~_~_9,_I9M -_~ )
Th_nnm __ __ 

Whose side is George Orwell on? 
A satirkal novc:l writt~:n hy a dying man, about a r~:v~:rs~: lltopia ofa tyrant stat~: and th~: t~:rrorizing and d~:humanizing of man, will h~: th~: most diSt:ussed hook of th~: coming y~:ar. 
<i~:org~: Orwc:ll finish~:d his novd in 1948, and s~:~:king some y~:ar in thl· futur~: that 
Max Lerner 
The Lerner Column 
would h~: th~: targl·t ofhis proph~:tic vision, h~: r~:v~:rs~:d th~: last two digits and it hacam~: 1984. 'Ill~: whok r~:ading world has he~:n waiting for that y~:ar to strike, and now that it has stru<:k we don't know quite what to do with thl· hook. 
On~: thing w~: havt' hn·n doing has h~:~:n playing the gam~: of "Who Owns Georg~: Or· wc:ll?" Not so curiously ~:wryone who writ~:s about Orwdl -from th~: ldt or right ­claims him for his own enlightened political camp, and professes to see Orwell as aiming his poisoned satirical shafts at the opposing camp. As for the hordes of campus symposia, most of them proceed with liberal even­handedness to indict both communist totalitarianism and a repressive American capitalism. 
Thus Orwdl is being used as a stick to beat 
any opposing dogma with. This can become 
absurd, especially when it is aimed (as it has 
been) at the new technology, American 
foreign policy, and male sexism. 
In the best long piece on Orwell thus far, in the New Yorker, George Steiner has done the sensible thing of going back to the source ­to Orwell's correspondence with his publis· her, to his reviews and articles during his work years on the book, and to other books he drew on for his ideas, themes and characters. 
It is a piece of painstaking research, power­fully reasoned. Everything in it points to the overarching conclusion that, whatever Or­well's marginal reflections, what he had in mind centrally was the structure, methods, economy, polity, psychology and ethic of the Soviet state, and the intellectual universe of the Communist Party. 
In what may be called the "genealogy" of 1984, Orwell's debts extended to Jonathan Swift, H.G. Wells, Aldous Huxley, Arthur Koestler,)ames Burnham and especially to the novel We, by Y. I. Zamyatin, a Russian emigre writer who first cut a trail for him. 
Generous about other influences Orwell 
was leery about admirting that of We. Yet the 
review he wrote of it in I946 contains almost 
all the principal themes of 1984, along with its 
two main characters and its rudimentary plot. 
This does not deny Orwell's creativity. He fleshed out the skeletal frame he got from We with his own great gift for political polemics. 
He was especially productive in the area of his main theme -that of the corruption of politics by language. From this flowed Or­well's central concept of "newspeak," along with "double-think" and "unperson," and the invention of new languages to reverse the ordinary meanings of words ("Truth," "Peace," "Freedom") and th~: cramming ofall private and historic memory into the memory hole in order to wipe out the intellectual and imaginative heritage ofthe past. 
As a novel 1984 is not much. As a political satire, with all its borrowings, it is a superb 
product  of  a  working  journalist,  writer,  
thinker,  which  will  hold  us  in  thrall  well  
beyond 1984.  

For wherever you find some zealot, with his certainty ofa revealed religion, seeking to use Orwell to confuse the distinctions between persons and unpersons, between free societies struggling to buttress their freedom in the future, and unfree societies which have almost forgotten their pa'>t, there you will find Orwell's accusatory healing prose, still sharp, still alive. 
p • 0. BoxQ 
,; 
bettt:r how to takt: care of such mean, nasty And if you're really good, maybe we'll even If someone who believes in the use of little problems as money and dirty let you wear green pants and a yellow leprec­nuclear weapons for the sake of world peace

ND and 1984 
microwaves? Imagine, if you had a dirty haun shirt when you come back for football ever gets in a position to make that decision. Jear Hditor: microwave, you'd probably do something sil­games! I can hardly contain my excitement! God help us. One hears a lot ofgrousing about 
l'athl'f Tl·d's "traditionally familial" ly, lik1: clean it. Father Van has a much bt:tter Can you?! being assailed by depressing and horrifying rdationship with studt:nt organizations solution. Ifyou have a dirty microwave, throw Thomas Marshalek statistics and predictions of what nuclear war rl·mimls m~: of anothn family tradition I read it away! Now, can you se1: how incredibly would bring (they don't call it a holocaust for about once. Yes. Notre Daml· is moving into naiv~:your solution would have been? nothing). Apparently Mr. Prinster ha'in't bet:n 
Peaceful bombs 

198·1, and "BICi DADDY IS WATU IIN<i YOll." So just you run along, and let Big Daddy take listening. Big Daddy knows that you an· just a wt:t· cart: of running your lifl:. Just imagine how DearEditor: Annie Eiesland hehiml·tlw-ears collegt: studl·nt, with no ex­much mort: time you'll have for studying your I had to read guest columnist Dan Prinster's perienc~: in rl·<tl life. I k dol·sn't want you to theology and admiring the Golden Dome! And article in the Dec. 13 edition ofThe Obsemer han· to fan· soml·thing ~~~horribly frightening soml· day, ifyou study real hard, you won't be twice to see if it could possibly say what I as <.lealing with thl· rl·~ponsihilitk~ ofyour life a wt:t·ht:hind-the-ears colkge student any thought it said. The kind of convoluted logic Editor's note: The appearance of letters to at Notrl· Dame. mort:. You'll he a wet-behind-tht:-ears in his argument for "premeditated use oflong· the editor is subject to the daily constraints 
So why not ll·t Big Daddy take care of them alumnus. out tht:r~: making the money that range nuclear missles" is precisely why th~:rc of the page. All/etters are subject to editing ti1r you, l'Spl·l'ially sinl'l' ht: knows so much keeps this fine institution going. is an anti-nuclear movement. 
and become the property ofThe Observer. 

The Salvador Committee to Eliminate Death ~ Hot~ iU f~nt Meetirg 
I ~ T~T FIR\l wt 1WU. $11A1: mtRt AAl NO OUTM SQIW> 1'1.1'18Uts ON TillS COMITTll. 
~URI ~OROPOV IS 
fiNE! EVERVTJtNG 
IS UNDER COMPI.ffi 
CC+JlROl! 

Views of 
the news: 

The cartoonists' look at current events 


EditorialBoard  Depat1mentManagers  
Editor-in-Chhf...  .. ... David Dziedzic  
1'. () /lox{!. .\'utrelhm1e. /,\' ·10 <;<;(,  (.! ll)) .!3lJ· 'i303  .~lalla!(ill!( l:'ditor  ...... Margaret Fosmol·  llusiness Manager .. .  .. C:hristopht:r Owt:n  
'I he (Jhsen•er i~ till' imlepl·ntlent nl'\\·,paper published lw thl' ~tudenh of thl· l 'ni·  l:'xecutir•e l:'ditor..  ....... Paul Mc<iinn  Controller ...........  ............. Alex Szil\'as  
n·rsity of Notn· Danll' du l.ac ami Saint .\lan··s ( :ollege. It don not lll'Cnsarily rdkl'l  .\'eu·s l:'tlitor.... .  ... Bob Vondt:rhdde  :ltlr•erlising Manager ..  ............ ..Jeank Poole  
thl· polidl·~ of the .tdministration of l'ither institution. The nl'\\S b reportnl as ac­ Sews Editor..  ......... Mark \X'orschd1  Circulation Manager  .. Mark Miotto  
ntratdy and a~  objlTtivdy as possible. l ·nsignnlnlitorials represent the opinon of a  Saint .Harr's l:'ditor  ...Anne Monastyrski  .\)•stems ,'\.tanager ..  ... Kl·,·in Williams  
majorirv ofthe Editorial Board. ( ·omllll'IHaries. lettlTS. and the Inside ( :olumn prt:scnr  .\j}()rfS l:'ditor.  .Michal'! Sulli\·an  
1he vil'ws of1hdr authors. (:olumn spotl'l' is availahil' to allmnnhns ofIhl· community.  f(•atures Editor  ....Sarah Hamilton  
and 1hl' fnT exprl·ssion of\ arying opinions on campus. through il'ttns. is l'ncouragnl.  Photo Editor...  .......Scott Bower  

Founded November 3, 1966 

r 






Sports Briefs 
BrotherJoseph Bn.ttlo, C.S.C.. Notre Dame's 
head wrestling coach since joining the athletic staff in August of 1980 will be on an indefinite leave of absence. Tihamer Toth-Fejel, the Irish assistant wrestling coach, will assume interim head coach­ing duties for the remainder of the '83-'84 season. The triangular meet scheduled for last night with the University of Chicago and Miami ofOhio was cancelled. -The Observer 
Lifesaving I ~ater SafetyInstructor Courses will be offered at the Rockne Pool at the following times: Lifesaving ­9:10-9:45, I 0: I 5-10:50, I 1:20-1! :50, and I :20-1:55 on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, I I :05:12:05, l:.l0-2:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and I 2-3 on Saturday beginning Jan. 21. Water Safety Instructor classes will be held from 9 a.m. to noon. Ther.e will be a charge of $6 for materials for Ufesaving classes and a S20 ·charge for Water Safety materials. For more information, call Brother Louis Hurcik, C.S.C., at 239-632 I. -The Obseroer 
Workouts for the 54th Bengal Bouts have begun and will continue throughout the ~emester leading up to the fights. No previous experience is necessary. Workouts begin at 4 p.m. every day in the nonh dome ofthe ACC. For information, call Angelo Perino at 3348, Tom Lezynski at I728, or Mike Latz at 8308. -The Obseroer 
Roster entries for the NVA's Men's and Women's Vol­leyball Tournaments are being accepted until Wednesday, Jan. 25. Rosters must include no less than seven players, all of whom represent the same hall, plus the captain's name and telephone num­ber. Games will consist of I 5 points and must be won by at least two points; teams will play best out ofthree. Submit rosters to the inter­hall office or call 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
Thursday, January 19, 1984 -page 9 
The Non-varsity AthleticsOffice is offering a ski package to Royal Valley on four separate Tuesday nights beginning January 24. The $60 charge for the trip includes transponation, equipment, lessons, and lift tickets. Price will be reduced if equip­ment and lessons are not needed, and limited space is available. Deadline for sign-up is tomorrow. Call239-6690 for more informa­tion. -The Obseroer 
Aerobics classes will begin Wednesday, Jan. 
25, for both stu~ents and faculty. A faster-paced session will be of­
fered from 4-4:40 p.m. and a slower-paced session from 5: I5-5:'55 
p.m. Cost for students is $3 for I3 sessions and S5 for 27 sessions while faculty prices are Sl2 and S22 for I3 and 27 session~ respectively. Fees should be brought to the first session at the Ace' Gym 4, above Gate 3. Lockers are available, and both men and women are welcome. -The Obseroer 
Beginning and Advanced Cross Country Ski clinics are being offered by the Non-Varsity Athletics Office. The class for beginners will be taught by Tim Weaver, ski instructor for the Outpost Trading Center. Emphasis will be made on proper tech­
nique, dress and equipment and safety. The advanced class will be 
taught by). V. Peacock, who has been teaching cross-country skiing 
for I3 years. Cost for the clinics is 56 for ski rental or $4 ifyou have 
your own equipment. The beginner's clinic begins at 7 p.m. on Tues­
day,jan. 24, in 2I8 of the Rockne Memorial Building, and the ad­
vanced class at the same time at the same place on Thursday, Jan. 26. 
Deadline to register is Monday,jan. 23.-The Obseroer 
• • .Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
''I'm past worrying about whether we'll get into the tournament or not," said DiStanislao. "I'm con­cerned about how we'll play the rest of the way. We need to play consis­tently and practice with the intent to play to win. There's only one way we shouldn't and that's if we continue to play aimlessly and without inten­
sity." 
The current three-game losing streak marks the low point of what has been a roller-coaster season. Af­ter playing poorly in the Notre Dame Classic over Thanksgiving, the Irish put it together and beat UCLA. Then came a loss at Nonhwestern before wins over weak Michigan and Western Michigan teams. 
The roller-coaster ride continued into the break as the Irish lost to a Central Michigan team that out­played its tired hosts. Then came a trip to Boston to compete in the Nike Classic. In the tirst game, the Irish played well for 30 minutes against powerful Old Dominion but lost a 71-57 game when Old Dominion opened a big lead early in the second half. 
The consolation game against Boston College saw the Eagles take advantage of a 24-9 turnover edge and poor play by the Irish down the stretch to take third place in the tourney by a 59-55 score. 

Super Bowl records 
Touchdown
,..... 
4 Terry Bradshaw Pii!Sburgh vs Dallas. 1979 
Pill IHtmptl 38 
Ron Jaworski Philadelph•a vs. 
Oakltnd, 1981 p,.. complttlont 25 
Ken Anderson Cincinnlti vs San Francisco. 
1982 
Hlghnt completion ptrCtntltt 
73 5~ (25 of~~ Ken Anderson Cincinnati vs. Sen FrancttcO, 1982 
The loss was discouraging, but the team bounced back with its best game of the break, a 66·50 win at East Carolina. An easy H'i-68 win over Xavier sent the team to Louisiana Tech with a 6-6 record.. The powerful Lady Techsters, the unanimous choice for No. 1 in the country, used their superior inside strength to roll to an 83-56 win. Al­though losing by 27, though, there was some optimism as the Irish finished much doser to Tech than last year's 42-point ( 81-39) gap. 
Possibly the ke} game was Ia: Sunday's 64-63 heartbreaker at SJ\Il Needing a win to get back to .'50t, the Irish stayed clove and led by or. · with 21 seconds left. A controversi foul call allowed SMU to take tt 
co win at the buzzer. Laura Dm heny appeared to be fouled as ~ put up her shot, but there was foul called. With Dougheny at r line, a victory wou 
line, a victoi-y ·~ould almost h<J been a cenainty. The junior guJ leads the nation in foul shoot with a 95-percent accuracy rate ( of-41 ). 
There is still plenty of time leh the season. The l.rish will havt· regroup, t~gh, -if they hopl salvage what could be a very appointing season. 

Most lltld go111 4 
Two·way lte Don Chandler Green Bay vs Oakland 1968 and Ray Werschtng San Franctsco vs Ctncmnatt. 1982 
Longttt lltld goel 
48 yards Jan Stenerud Kansas Ctty vs Mmnesota. 1970 
P1u1ng y1rd1 318 
Terry Bradshaw Ptttsburgh vs Dallas. 1979 
P111t1 rKtlvtd 11 
Dan Ross Ctnctnnatt vs San Franctsco. 
1982 
Longttt p1u completion 80 yards Jtm Plunkett (10 K1ngt Oakland vs Phtladelphta 1981 

Ruth llttmptt  
38  
John Rtggtns  Rushing yerdt  lnttrcepllont 
Washtngton vs  166  3  
Mtamt. 1983  JOM RtQQtnS  Rod Mart1n  
WUhtngton vs  Oakland vs  
Mtamt. 1983  Phtladelphta 1981  

AP News GraphtCS 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
ATTENTION NORTHEASTERNERSIII Made plans lor the summer yet? Well 1t not how about three months of gloriOus llvltlg on the whrte sand beaches of Avalon and W11dwood New Jersey. Three openongs are ava1lable Call Pat 8762 belore Jan 25th for deta1ls 
Expenenced T ypost Mrs Bedford Hours 8AMio5PM Mon thru Fro 288·2107 
Don I Pay New Text Book Pncesl Pan dora s can save you 29-o off the hst pncf' on used texts 3·5 Day Delivery We carry hundreds of paperbacks at Discount Proces Shop Pandora s Books and Save 1 937 So Bend Ave TYPING 277·8534 after 5 30 
FOR RENT 
MALE ROOMMATE needed now Castle Po1n1. CAll Steve 277 ·3206 
WANTED 
ROOMATE WANTED·$90 & electnc fur· mshed & carpeted good loca11on. 232· 3582(after 5) 
IIJ.... J~fi()J~ 

WANTED. Succer..s-onented self-motivated 1ndtv1dual to work 2-4 hours per week plac1ng and filling posters on campus Earn $500-plus each school year 1·800·243·6679 
FOR SALE 
STAND·UP BAR FOR SALE GOOD CONDITION CALL 2737 
FORSALE·12 BWTV 1 yearold.works great 50$ Call Bill 239· 7666 or 277· 4653 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U S. GOVERN· MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY' CALl (312) 742-1142 EXT 7316 
PERSONALS 
HOHOHO 
JUST 1 MORE SEMESTER AND WE'LL NEVER HAVE TO SEE THIS PLACE AGAIN I SENIORs--LETS PARTY JUNIORs--YOU'LL MAKE IT SOPHOMORES-STICK WITH IT FRESHMAN--GOOD LUCK~ MORE SEMESTERS-UGH) 
Mr Abowd. I for~ot to get you coal before break. so I m go1ng to gtve you a nasty personal in­stead 
ITS ALL STARTING AGAIN ANGST RETURNS 
Welcome back T1m and Mark 
PHOBIA OF THE DAY 
Gynophobia: fear of women 
HEVYOUI Join the $400 J-Ciub Let's make this a joint effort! 
TURN IN PREFERENCE FORMS FOR JOB INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR JANUARY 26. 27 AND THE WEEK OF JANUARY 30 BY 5 00 PM TODAY AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
TURN IN PREFERENCE FORMS FOR JOB INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR JANUARY 26. 27 AND THE WEEK OF JANUARY 30 BY 5 00 P M TODAY AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT 
SERVICES 
MARYBETH MURRAY IS A GODOESS 
TURN IN PREFERENCE FORMS FOR JOB INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR JANUARY 26. 27 AND THE WEEK OF JANUARY 30 BY 500 PM TODAY AT CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
SENIORS Volunteer Work w1th 
CROSS ASSOCIATES Corn· 
living and serviCe 1n PH: 
COLORADO. CALIFORNIA 
OREGON Deadline tor apr 
Feb.3 Call Mary Ann Roeme1 
REWRITE 
What ever happened to Marl< Spll; 
Satltn the Southern Sun Spnng Sri Boat World Cru1ses show you t' water & golden sands of Flonda Bahamas for a week On Campl. 
Needed 
Contact 
BOAT WORLD CRUISE' 
1260 N Federal Hwy 
Pompano Beach. Fl 330' 
305·942·8500 
Pandora's Books Bnn_g rn thts ad and we wtll g1ve yuu add1toonal $5 off any purchase ove• ~· Valid through 1/31/84 937 Sc Ave 
-

.' 
The Observer Thursday J -page 10 

' 
' 
' 
' 
l ' ' 
! 

Thursday,January 19,1984-page 11

The Observer 
• • .Men 

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland ~55 
An Equal Opportunity Employer, U.S. Citizenship Required. 
"ON CAMPUS VISIT DATE JAN 30TH" 

The Irish gut the ball to open the first overtime and held it for over two-and-one-half minutes before finally doing something. What the whole overtime came down to was 
Buchanan's one-and-one situation 
with four seconds left. The score 
was 61-60 in favor of the Huskies at 
that point and two made shots 
would likely have given Notre Dame 
the victory. 
The Seattle native Buchanan, an all-city and all-league player in foot­hall, basketball, and baseball jl.is senior sea..'iOn, calmly stepped to the line and was able to make the first end of the two free throws. He, however, could not manage the second and the teams went into a second overtime. 
Washington junwr Oetlf Schrempf sank two free throws in the second overtime and Notre Dame had its last chance to keep its hopes alive when Buchanan put up two shots in the final 10 seconds. He will come out looking bad in the game, undeservedly, because he missed both. 
Phelps denies trying to set up Buc­
hanan to be the "big hero" in front of 
his family and friends. 
"That's a transition-go situation where you create and it doesn't mat­ter who takes the shot," say Phelps. "If he had the shot, it was his job to 
take it. It's letting them go in that 
situation ht-cause if you try to set up 
one guy, it never works. You just 
have to create down the floor. 
''He thought he (Buchanan) had the shot. It wa..~ his game. He was home. It also just happened that he got fouled at the end. Obviously, )o)o felt dejected when he had op­portunities to win it." 
Notre Dame now would have to 
win its final game ofits long road trip 
to make it look successful. That 
game, against Oregon in Eugene, 
was to be played in McArthur Court, 
a place many teams don't like 
playi'* 
Thq situation is bad because the 
visitink locker room is right under 
the Ofegon student section. Duck 
fans at'rive early and stamp their feet 
loud enough to be heard below. 
Phelps says this supposedly has been 
known to psyche out many visiting 
teams. 
Phelps avoided the problem 
entirdy, having his team dress and 
get taped at the hotel. They left for 
the fl p.m. game at 7:4S with a police 
escort in order to get there in time 
and arrived around 7:55. The team 
stretched out and warmed out, 
never going down to the locker 
room. 
The funny part, Phelps said, was when the Oregon students expected his players to come in one door and, instead, they came in the another door. After the game, Phelps was ask­
ing, "McWho?" Notre Dame work.:d Itselfout to a ~2-29 halftime lead before explod­lng in the second half to win going away, 66-S4. Captain Tom Sluby, as he wa..~ in each of tht: team's four road games, was the big scorer with 
26 points. Earlier in the trip, he had 
gotten 18, 20, and 24 points, in that 
order. 

501 E. Sample 
233-2590 10% Discount with university 10 
lin l CHAkuiNG ~t STARTING '>VSTfM CHfCI< 
"Sluby played very well the whole road trip," says Phelps. "When he plays with that same intensity and 
aggressiveness, there are not too many people who can stop him." 
Now. after the Irish topped Lafayette 65-39 la..~t Munday in an ACC yawner, which was highlighted only by the fuct that Lafayette set a record for least points scored by an ACC visitor (the previous record was also held by the Leopards ­scoring only 40 in a game last year), Phelps is confident about the rest of the season. 
"I'm not going to deny we haven't beat anybody," says the Irish coach. "The fuct is we're playing teams that are going to be in the NCAA tourna­ment. I think we're in a good posi­tion right now. Nobody expects us to do anything because we're not ranked and we haven't beaten anybody good, and that's a great place to be. 
"This team is playing as well as we've played all year right now. The second halfagainst Oregon, we were 
awesome." 
YOU'VE GOT TO PLAY HERDS-UP BALL 
WHEN IT COMES TO YOUR CAREER 
THAT'S WHY NSA OFFERS YOU THESE EXCITING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING 
There are opportunities in . a variety of research and 
development projects 
ranging from individual 
equipments to very 
complex interactive 
systems involving large 
numbers of 
microprocessors, mini­
computers and computer 
graphics. Professional 
growth is enhanced 
through interaction with 
highly experienced NSA 
professionals and through 
contacts in the industrial 
and academic worlds. 
Facilities for engineering 
analysis and design 
automation are among the 
best available. 
MATHEMATICS 
You'll work on diverse agency problems applying a variety of mathematical disciplines. Specific assignments might include solving communications· related problems, performing long-range mathematical research or evaluating new techniques for communications security. 
continuedfrompage 16 
Joseph Price, coming off the bench to play a big role lately, led all scorers in the Lafayette game with 14 points. Scott Hicks, who got a technical foul for grabbing the rim when he was undercut while going for a dunk with three minutes left, chipped in 1 1. The rim was bent bad enough that there had to be a 10 minute delay )r<4<>r to "e•· ·ace it. 

IRISH ITEMS ...Notre Dame bea~ Valparaiso, 80-48, on Dec. 22 in a game played on the last day of fmals. Tim Kempton pumped in 18 and Sluby added I 7 as the Irish had a strong game inside against the over-matched Crusaders ___The Irish will take a 9-5 record into Saturday's game against Villanova with 14 games remaining. 
COMPUTER SCIENCE 
At NSA you'll discover one of the largest computer installations in the world with almost every major vendor of computer equipment represented. NSA careers provide mixtures of such disciplines as systems analysis and design, scientific applications programming, data base management systems, operating systems, computer networking/security, and graphics. 
LINGUISTS 
NSA offers a wide range of challenging assignments for Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian language majors involving translation, transcription and analysis/ reporting. Newly-hired linguists can count on receiving advanced training in their primary language(s) and can plan on many years of continued professional growth. 
THE REWARDS AT NSA 
NSA offers a salary and benefit program that's truly competitive with private industry. There are assignments for those who wish to travel and abundant good living in the Baltimore-Washington area for those who wish to stay close to home. Countless cultural, historical, recreational and educational opportunities are just minutes away from NSA's convenient suburban location. 
To find out more about NSA career opportunities, schedule an interview through your college placement office. For additional information on the National Security Agency, write to National Security Agency, Attn: M322, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. 


r--------------------------------------------­
~---­

'"ilte Observer Thursday,January 19, 1984-page 12 
• • .LIBERTY 
Still. it was the whole team that deserved credit for the win. The defense, which seemed to have col­lapsed late in the season, came through and ht.'ld Boston College to three touchdowns and pressured Flutie for most of the night. The of­fensive line also did its job, dominat­ing the line for the entire game. 
Whether or not the win has served as a stepping stone will not be answered until next season, but things arc definitely looking up. 
Smith probably said it best. "This game meant so much to Coach Faust and we're going to come out next year with this big win behind us. At 
times, it was frustrating because we moved the ball but couldn't push it 
continuedfrom pa!{e 16 

across. But we came out on top and that's what counts." 
Hopefully, it will happen many times in the future. 

Tired of the rest, Dine at the best! America's Finest, Lee's BBQ Where good friends eat and new friends meet meet & greet Mon-Wed 4-9:30pm Thurs.-Sat. 4-1:00 
1r--------------------------------------­
I 
I 
I The New York Times 
I 
I I Special Low Ratesfor Campus Delivery 
Special low rates for campus delivery of The New York Times are now available at 30% off the single-copy price. This discount rate of 35¢ is good only for weekday and Saturday papers. Sunday papers are available on the subscription basis also but no discount is given. Papers will be delivered on 8:00 a.m. on the day of publication to dorms and faculty offices. 


Your paper can be guaranteed mfor the first day of delivery on January 18 only if payment is received by January 17. Delivery for orders received after January 18 will begin within 3 days and refunds will be granted in case of 
overpayment. 
Please mail the bottom portion of this slip 10: George Devenny 145 Stanford Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
•---------------------------------------~ I
I I 

Dear Mr. Devenny: I I 
I I

Count me in for The New York Times! I will Subscribe: 
Spring Term (ends May 6) I I 
IVlonday-Friday ................. $24.85 I I 
Monday-Saturday ............... $29.40 Monday-Sunday ................ $61.90 Sunday only ................... $32.50 
Rates do not include receiving paper on holidays or during exam week. Enclosed is my check payable to George Devenny in the amount of$ __ Name Address 
l
Phone 
--------------------------------------· 
ASSOCIATE Wtrn US 
Col\.sid~r can. Alterno.-tive-:.
SENIORS 

THE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
n~ HC~ is a 1.. ~eqr P" st~rcd".te ~~prn~rLe. 
strc.s.~'"!l:  •  
0  Scrvsce to ott.ers  •s,· .. pk  f,".,in~  
o(omns•u•..l lifr~tjle  • Christa"' u,.aon.t"on..  

l'lcau mcnts IIY'cilaLk ia ~,Calor;ado Spri"~~,C... j l'hocru"Jl'J Az.-j flc'j-rd,Cca.; Porti..J., Or. 
DEADLINf fOR APPLICANTS:FEBRUAR.Y J,/1fY 
for ~nfor,.at:'Oil, co..tqct. ~, A-. ltKmu 4t-file Cu.fa-for Soc,QI Conc:.-:rns(S2'1.3) 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Meet the Alumni Board of Directors at the Hall Visitation Program! 
Thursday, January 19 9:00pm Refreshments will be served 
Sponsored by the Alumni Association & the Student-Alumni Relations Group (SARG) The following halls will host Board Members: Flanner. Breen-Phillips. Zahm. Alumni. Morrissey & Walsh. 
ZZ TOP CONCERT-FEBRUARY 9 
ticket sale Friday, January 20.............$12.50 Numbers given out at Student Activities Office Door. 1st floor LaFortune. No line before 7:30AM. MUST BE PRESENT. ONE LOTIERY NUMBER PER STUDENT. Priority order established by lottery drawing 9:00AM Ticket sales begin at Student Union Ticket Office, 1st floor LaFortune 400 tickets are available in this lottery, with a limit of 6 tix per person Ticket sales also break at the ACC Ticket Office, Gate 10, at 9:00am for those students who wish to buy at the ACC. 
Tug of War
r---------------------------------------~Who's going to Win? 1 


I
STRESS MANAGEM.ENT I 
I 
I
FOR Graduate Students 
I
*Are you wondering how to get geared up for the coming semester and enjoy 
I
yourself too? 
I 
*Are you interested in how to relax? When is a good time to relax? 
I 
*Do you want to know why you feel the stress? Why you burn-out from time to time? 
I Are you interested in establishing your priorities? Values? What is important I to you? I *Are you interested in managing your time better? I 
I
*Are you interested in managing your guilt and enjoying yourseli and your time? 
I
If you answered yes to any of these questions, our program may be helpful to 
I 
you. In cooperation with the Graduate Student Union, the Counseling and 
I 
Psychological Services Center is offering a: 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
STRESS MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP AT 
I
FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS WILSON COMMONS 
I MONDAY FROM I I
JANUARY 23,1984 6:00pm TO 7:30pm 
I 
I 

With a Stress Management Workshop· You Oan Win!! I~ 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
~---------------------------------------~ 

-----------------------------------~------~ ~--­
The Observer Thursday, ,January 19, ........ page 13 
...-----------------, Pulls away in final minutes 
What Does the Student Union Record Store· Have in Store for Me 
CHEAPER PRICES... Suve24-Jl•ff'•"w•m! 
MOST CURRENTSINGLES-~-6.50/Comtwew 
f8.991tSIJ 
CUT-OUTS... Jl.9B-J5.9B GREAT SELECTION... s,,".."'"· ro.-tbe'•· stneoe 
.'V1cks, Chnstopher Cros.~ •.Woody Blue:-., Pur Henuwr. Journt••• und 
many, man~· more. 
A LSQ... re(orded und blunJ. 1upe~ u~·u!luble. 
CONVENIENC£. .. Th• NDSU Recurd Stm·e" /cn·wed ot/ the Mum Floor of LuForrune. Plus-•1rdered ulb11ms ruke •mly one wtt•.4. to urriw!.' 

.--•••••••••••••• 6.50 Savings ••••••-•••••••-.
i Witt 1\ntgl}ta nftlttC!tastle 
I 
'" minutes from campus /J 
Hair Cut Shampoo _ Blow Dry & Condition 
545:t3 Terrace Lane, R $ 00 
:!Iouth Send(Across from eg. 15' I 
Martin's on S.R. 23)
1 
' 
1
I
1 l, W B:30-5:30 
I  Th 8:30-8:30  
I  Fr 8:30-6:00  
II  S 8:30-2:30 ClosedMon  
!..-•••••••••••••6.50 Savings •••••••••••••......1 


INow $8·50 with coupon 1 
I offer only applies to male patrons I I 
277·1691 272·0i12 : II 
THE 


J YELLOW 
SUBMARINE 
272·4453 
18109 STAT!! P.OAD #2::1· SOUTH DGND, IN (WEST OF lr-10NWOOD) 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Free Delivery Service 
8pm-11 pm Mon. to Thurs. 8pm -12 Fri. and Sat. Open 10-11 Mon. to Thurs. Fri. 10-3am Sat 10 -1am Drivers Carry Under $15 
MARKETING AND SALES CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
Westpoint Pepperell 
A Major Fortune 500 Corporation will hold interviews for Marketing;Sales positions (for the class of 1984) on 
Monday· February 6 
To make an appointment and learn more about WestPoint Pepperell, conact the Placement Bureau. 
,, -~ow ! !1! 
Manchester defeats Belles 
Saint Mary's fon.vard Betsy Ebert scored 16 points and pulled down a remarkable 18 rebounds and center Elaine Suess added 1 7 points, but their efforts were in vain as opposing Manchester College escaped with a 62-52 victory in the final minutes Tuesday night at Angela Athletic Facility. The loss was the ftfth in six 
games for the Belles, dropping their overall record to 3-7. The Spartans, who beat the Belles by a 30-point margin last season, advance to 9-3. 
"They didn't throw anything at us that we couldn't handle," remarked Assistant Coach_leffRoberts. "I think it was more a problem of our own attitude and concentration on the game." 
Indeed, neither team seemed able 
to concentrate on the game from the 
start. After almost five minutes of 
scoreless play. the Spartans came 
alive to outscore the Belles 10-2 in 
the next two minutes. Saint Mary's 
called a time-out and then returned 
to match baskets for the remainder 
ofthe first period. Manchester held a 30-23 edge at halftime. 
"We should have been able to take advantage of them in those opening minutes," said Saint Mary's. Head Coach Mike Rouse. "When a good team like Manchester comes out cold like that, you have to grab those opportunities and score on them." 
Beginning the second half, Saint 
Mary's outscored the Spartans 10-6 
to pull within three at 36-33. 
However, a cold shooting spell by 
Cyndy Short and the loss of forward 
Teresa McGinnis to foul trouble 
allowed the Spartans to extend the 
lead to nine for the remainder ofthe 
half. The Belles were forced to foul 
in the final minutes, but Manchester 
converted most of their foul shot at­
tempts to clinch the victory. 
"You can't give just one reason for tonight's loss," said Rouse. "There were turnovers that shouldn't have been committed, fouls that shouldn't have been committed; basically a lack of poise and game concentration." 
"I do want to commend Betsy (Ebert) on her performance," he continued. "She gave us the kind of inside play and rebounding we've needed all season." 
In the prestigious Catholic Basket­ball Tournament last week in Dubuque, Ia., The Belles faced op­ponents of national stature and turned in a commendable perfor­mance. Although losing to Christian Brothers College I 0 3-36, a team ranked -fifteenth nationally, Saint Mary's returned the following day to upset the home team of Clarke Col­lege, 62-48. 
"I was extremely happy with our performance in the tournament," said Rouse. "We played with good hustle and confidence, and we'll be back there next year." 
The Belles travel to Franklin Col­
lege Saturday afternoon, with hopes 
of upsetting their rivals for the 
second straight time this season. 


M~ufa~&rers of Martex, Lad{30g_ry::>_ 

Equal Opportunity Employer-M/F

, v 
Pea ~rei/,_ a11d other national brand.q.', ~. ' l lqorproducts. ~ot • ,t 
Marketing Headquarters· New York 
Be In On The Develop111ent Of A New System 
You'll create it.· 
A Learning Experience 
Equivalent To Catting 
An Advanced Degree 
There are very few opportunities to participate in the creation ofa new ~stem. 
High Visibility 
With Top Management 
Join our Systems & Applications Development Team.r Experience the real, honest-to-goodness coming alive ' of a new 2YStem designed to be the core of operations of our growing S135 million corporation. 
Company: Solid. In business 43 years. Leader in its field. Doubled in size last year-about to do it again. Marketing in 44 states plus D.C. 
Location: New (102,000 sq. ft.) office-Indianapolis, Indiana 
You: Bachelors degree. Computer Science or Business major with computer programming courses. Vocational­technical college graduates may also apply_ Candidates must be able to think in logical terms. Send resume with 
college transcripts to: 
i ' 'i-4"-'1 'Cl:.:.:.;q ;-·~ ? ~ 
c.;;;.....: ••. C· ,· f' 
,'., OJ..lf; ~ployees Know of This Ad. 
GoldenRule 
Golden Rule Insurance Company 
Golden Rule Buildings The Waterfront Indianapolis, Indiana 46224-4199 


,~ 
•I ....,. 
' The Observer Thursday,)anuary 19, 1984-page 14 
' 
liberty Bowl 

Notre Dame 19 Boston College 18 
--.-..--­
.,-----------­
:: -_ Ihe=Ohset:ver 
0 
)
, ) Attention all Typesetters 
, 4 J 
: Or anybody else interested in computer : typesetting for The Observer this : semester. There will be a mandatory : meeting on Sunday, Jan. 22 at 7:30p.m. 4 ) We will be organizing the schedule at this :, ~ time, so call Kevin at 239-5303 if you ~ : cannotattend. :J 
4 ---------------.~ 

Major areas of graduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D.): 
Aerodynamics Computational Fluid Dynamics Aeroelasbaty Computer-Aided Design Bioengmeenng PropulsiOn Combustion Structural Dynamics 
Structures-Composites 
Individual Tuition & Fees are $1,452 per calendar year. 
Total financial aid per calendar year: 
$13,452 Center of Excellence in Rotary Wing Aircraft Fellowships 
$14,452 Lockheed/Georgia Tech Research Assistantships 
S 7,500-Research Assistantships $10,000 
All graduate students will partiapate in research. 
For further infonnation contact: 
Dr. A.L. Ducoffe, Director School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 
(404) 894-3000 


A CALL TO CARE: 
Career Planning for a Social Conscience 
Peter Hen riot S.J. 
Director of the Center of Concern, Washington, D. C. 
D D DlectureD D D D D D Career Workshop D D D Friday, January 20 Sat., Jan. 21, Library Lounge 8:00 · 1 0:00 pm 9:00 ·12:30 Library Auditorium Register at the C.S.C. $3 charge covers workshop and lunch 
Open to students, faculty, and staff. Sponsored by C.I.L.Ai and Student Union 
Attention All Juniors Junior Parents Weekend Information 
The deadline for all returns is January 31. 1984. If your parents have not yet mailed in their registration forms please encourage them to do so as soon as possible! 
Also, if your parents have not received a registration form,· you may pick them up in the Students' Activities Office in LaFortune. All parents SHOULD have received them before Christmas break. 
Also, if you would like to purchase additional tickets for any event in addition to those ordered by your parents on their registration form, or if you have any questions concerning registration, please contact Linda at 2737. 
HAPPY 
15<e Shrimp
HOUR 
Early Happy Hour: 4:00-7:00pm Monday · Friday 
Welcome Back Saint Mary's Sunday 2:00pm until close Notre Dame 
B.B.a. Ribs · all you can eat
Students 
in lounge: $3.00 
, Free 
Munchies 

t t t t 
t 
t t t t t t t t t t t t t 
t 
t t 

~«:)cJ[(l~--------------------------~Th-~---~-'J_m_uacy__l_9,_1_98_4__P_~_e__15 
Bloom County 

'tOO HOO l AHOY, fH€R~ .' ...)fJ() NIU RUSSIAN f€U.AS ON 'THAT 50VIH WHAUN0 
SHIP .. H€:U..O .1 .. 
Mellish 
Berke Breathed 

Campus ~: 

THIS IS MRf>. ~llo'Ul!UR ANI7 
NOW, NOW FW..AS ... 

MR. OPVRT...IIJHY i/ON'T W61U JU5T 
W6'R6 A~ MSICf'U.Y 

SIT roWN FOR A Nlet. 
~FTISTS, Hf.RE.... 
-Dinner, Transfer Orientation Spag­hetti Dinner, SMC, For more info call Karen Klocke 283-6293 
•6 p.m. -Meeting, Ground Zero Steering Com­mittee Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 
TV Tonight 
ill 







T 
I 
, 

"Calm down, everyone! I've had experience with this sort of thing before . . . Does someone have a hammer?" 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 37 Suit to-68 Dill herb 9 Missiles 1 Relative 39 Membranous 69 Early of old of a stoa enclosures American 10 Tiny, in 5 Musical 41 Linens dwelling Dundee 
sign 44 Nautical 70 Dueling 11 Self-pro­10 Obi mile sword pelled14 Guffaw 45 Adhesive 71 Young 12 Fret 15 Ship 47 Homeless nannies 13 Roll call 16 Instrument one, for 72 Hovels word 
muffler short 73 Farmer's 19 WWII 17 Ancient 48 Ancient milieu acronymstrong box Britons 
21 Devoured18 Part of 51 In a way 25 A Della SCUBA that re· DOWN 26 Goof20 Rubber sembles Roentgen­28 Highway

stamps mountains ogram 22 Extinct 53 Riles 2 Long ago 29 Fastener 
bird 54 Net 3 Pouches 30 Muscat man 23 Have debts 55 Marsh elder 4 Kinof47A 31 Allied 24 Chaplain 5 Striking 33 Involving27 Cordial 57 Mentorof repeatedly retribution 29 Less chilly Samuel 6 Part of a 36 Medieval 32 Shovel 59 Roster dog's name Fr. coin 
34 Morns 63 Part of IRA 7 Antiquity 38 Like an 35 Sp. month 67 Smear 8 Appear omelet 
6p.m. 16 22 28 34 
6:30p.m. 16 22 28 
7p.m. 
16 22 28 34 7:30p.m. 16 22 28 34 
Guindon Richard Guindon 
Sp.m. 16 22 28
REALLY 
34
NEW OLD OLD 
8:30p.m. 16
MONEY MONEY MONEY 
9p.m. 16 22 28 34 
9:30p.m. 16 
10p.m. 16 22 28 
llp.m. 16 22 28 34 
11:30p.m. 16 22 28 
40 Route for 58"-a man Caesar with..." 42 Makes 60 Neck part 
amends 61 Challenging 43 Expiring fight 46 Fathers 62 First 49 -·do-well victim 50 Aits 
64 "-in the
52 "I-that!" 
bag"55 Persian 65 Finial
Gulf coun· try: var. 
ornament 66 Once known 
56 "-,vidi, vici" as 
Wednesday's Solution 

NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The MacNeiVlehrer Report NBC Nightly News CBS News ABC's World News Tonight MASH PM Magazine Joker's Wild Contemporary Health Issues Barney Miller Family Feud Wheel of Fortune Straight Talk 
Gimme A Break Magnum, PI Automan All Creatures Great and SmaU Family Ties Cheers Simon and Simon Masquerade Mystery Buffalo Bill Hill Street Blues Knots Landing 20/20 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Indiana Lawmakers Tonight Show TrapperJohn/CBS Late Movie Thikce ofthe Night 



, . SExl .. ~H\OR LAd It Welcome Back! ... BEAT THE CLOCK Drink Prices Change All Night  

4.., <I tl ... .... "',,. ....... .,.,,.. ....... ., .. ,. .............-... ,. ______ .,, ....... 
<I, ....... .,,.,. ........ .,, •. 
' 



Sports 
Thursday,January 19, 1984-page 16 
Notre Dame wins three, loses two over break as aoward joins squad 
Holy Cross, now havmg tne serv1ces

J)yJEFF BLUMB 
Duff, a first semester junior 
of Howard.

·lssistant Spt,rts Editor 
accounting major, failed to achieve Notre Dame's free throw percent­the University requirement for ath· 
age improved to 75 percent in the lt:tic eligibility of a 2.0 grade point
The jnsc:y wa~> a hit too hig hut he game with the Crusaders, anti it didn't st·em to mind. lie had never showell in the 12-point margin.
average. llis cumulative average is experienced this prohkm on the: ahovt· 2.0 hut he: faikd to make that Phelps was really pleased with the mark during the first semester, thus
f(JOtl>all t1ekl where he had es· performance of the team in that making him indigihle as of yester·
1ahi i'hnl himself as the t1fth all-time game, but especially with Howard. lt-ad111g rt·cciver in Notrt· Dame foot· "We just did a lot of good things
day. the first day of second semester h.tll history. But, tonight, there wen: classes. and Joe Howaru played very well for •>I her things on his mind in making Since that time, junior forward us. It was a spark we needed and he hi~ debut as Notre Dame's newt·st Barry Spencer also has been official· got us going. Holy Cross played a lot ha~t..cthall player. Joe lloward knnv ly dt·c:lared as academically in· of zone and we put Joe in cenain ; h.tt all eyes would he on him. eligible for the remainuer of this positions as a point guaru where he 
season. woulun't have to worry about any­· \'l'ryont· wanting to get a look at tht· Howard said he was interested, thing after the first or second pass.

'Piit end turned point guard. 
Faust hall no problems with the idea., Holv Cross really didn't know whatWearing the uniform ofan injurc:d and after everyont.·, incluuing he coulu do."
and academically indigihlc Dan 
lkCiu:o, who hall since gone to to
Dull, Howard ~t·ornl I~ points on After that, it was off the 
Memphis, uiscussed Howaru's
'':X·of·St'Vt'll shooting to lead tht· Kingdome and Seattle in a 
academit:s, Corrigan gave his o.k. for
lrbh 10 a 75-61 win ovc:r llolv Cros~ homecoming for sophomore point
the idt.·a. 
Jan. 6, starting a Notre Danll: stn:ak guard JoJo Buchanan a)!;ainst Wa..~h­Aftt.·r the l.iherty Bowl,
<>f three win~ in li>ur gamt·s that Howaru ington. The Huskies, another team 
would raist· it~ ~c:a~lll rt-coru to<).<; joinnl the team in Philadelphia. Phelps feels will make the NCAA's in wht.·rt.· they were playing LaSalle in
Ironically, it was the impending loss March, outlasted the Irish in two of Dutf that caust·d Notre lhme overtimes to take away a65-61 win.
the Spl'<:trum. The Irish uroppcd 13 points down to the Explorers hdi>re 
Notre Dame had thc ball with the

<"<>adt Digger Phelps to go after pulling within two. Tim Kt.·mpton 
score tied at 29 in regulation and

lloward in the t1rst place. 
then missed the front end of a one· 
held it for the potential final shot, a 
_

l'hdps, who found out he woulu anti-one and the La..'ialle scored to ,_____
shot that was never taken. After call-

not have Duff as ofJan. I H right after make it 6H-64. Obscrv<'r
ing a timeout to set up a play, Ken 

tlnal exams, immediatl'ly thought of Notre Dame brought th:: margin Irish swingman Tom Sluby keeps the ball away from two
Barlow was whistled for traveling

lloward, who he knew about from hack to two, and hall two chances to Lafayette defenders in Monday's game. Sluby bita scoring streak in
with just two seconds remaining.

high St·hool and a summer league in tit: the game in the final seven four-games on the road over break, averaging 22 points a contest. Plymouth, Ind., which other Irish seconds but was unable to score. See MEN, page 11 Notre Dame was 2-2 in those four games. See jeffBlumb's sum­players hall played in. lk brought up Again, the blame for a loss could be mary at left. 1he idea of lloward joining the team put on missed free throws. The Irish at a stall meeting on Dec 26 anti his missed four shots from the charity Smith tme MVP a~sistants wt·re all for the idea. stripe in the final five minutes ofthe 
Phelps then contacted Notre game. Dame academic advisor Mike "It's obvious you can talk about 
Irish come away winners in Liberty
1 >t.-Cicco to make sure that Howard's missed free throws in every game grades were in order. DeCicco said we've lost this year," laments Phelps, 
By MIKE SULLIVAN winning score, Notre Dame buckled consistently while Flutit: led a very
they wt·re. so Phelps, not wanting to "and I think that's obviously a men­Sports Editor down and made the big plays that it erratic Boston College offense. 
hot ht·r Howard or Gerry l:'aust right tal problem that we're trying to "I'm sorry for Steve because he
needed to make. When Flutie's

hdore the Uherty Bowl, called As· work through. It's all concentration Think back about a month to a founh-and-4 pass intended for Joe didn't get to play, but I'm glad they~odatt· Athletic Director Roger Val· and coming through under time when the Notre Dame football Giaquinto was broken up by corner­left me in," said Kiel. "I'm not takingdberri, who was in Memphis with pressure." 
team was the brunt of jokes in car­back Troy Wilson, the Irish had done anything away from Flutie bet.·ause 
the foothall team, and asked him to After the loss to the Explorers, a 
toon strips and many people were what many had thought impossible he's a great quanerback, but I think 
.tpproach Howard, l:'aust. and Ath· team Phelps swears will make the predicting a harsh beating at the -shut uown the Eagles and remain I'm just as good as he is and I think 
ktic Director (;ene Corrigan with NCAA Tournament, the Irish 
hands of Boston College star quar­the dominant Catholic football teant Steve is too. He's got the stats,tlw idt·a when he felt it was o.k. traveleu to Worcester, Mass.. to fuce 
terback Doug Flutie. in America. though, because he throws the ball Well, now it seems that Allen "Boston College has a real gpod ';0 times a game and has great Pinkett, fllair Kid, and their football team, hut when we play our receivers. We just had the better teammates got the last laugh. best, we can beat anybody in the football team. "It'll now relief for me
If you recall, thc Irish fought off country," said Pinkett. "We showed be a to relax a little while." 
flutie and the Eagles, 19-1 H, in the enthusiasm out there and our pride While Flutie was namel.l the
2';th anniversary Liberty Bowl in came out. lltis game was one season game's MVP for his 287 yards palo·frigiu Memphis. In the process of anti we knew we had a good chance sing and three touchdowns, perhapsupsetting the 13th-ranked Eagles, to redeem ourselves." 

the true most valuable player was
the players granted Head Coach Perhaps nobody answereu the Irish fullback Chris Smith who

Gerry l:'aust at least a little reprieve critics as well as graduating quarter· from the constant criticism that he back Blair Kid. After putting up with 

rushed for I04 yards and took a big load off the shoulders ofPinkett. To·
has faced all year, and also won hack abuse for four seasons, Kid put to­

gether, the two of them accounted
some of the respect that they had gether two of his finest perfor· for 21 <; ofthe team's 376 yards and

lost in the last weeks of the season. mances in his final two appearances in an Irish uniform, almost assuring allowed Notre Dame to keep the ball 

"I think this shows people we're a 
away from Flutie. 
that he will be picket! up in the n(·xt
good team," saiu Pinkett, who was 

NFL draft. "They told me coming in that Ithe player most outspoken about his who was
K.icl, originally was going to carry the ball a lot, so I
desire to participate in a "minor" 

scheduled to he replaceu by fresh· was ready," said Smith. "It's just
bowl like the Liberty. "We showed 

man Steve Beuerlt:in at halftime. great to be able to take a littlepeople what's to come next year." 
played the entire game. Anti, though pressure off Allen." What the team didn't show was 

his outstanding performand: ( 1 I ·of· With some ofthe pressure offhim, some of the late-game lapses that 
19, 1<;I yards and one touchuown) Pinkett was able to pick up I l I had led to nearly all five ofits losses. 
was lost in the sometimes-awesome yards and score two touchdowns to When the pressure was on and Bos­
l:'lutic's shadow, he was able to keep make his total 20 for the year. ton College was marching toward a 
the offense moving down the field 

See LIBERTY, page 9 
Time for change? 
Women lose at home to Loyola 

By MIKE SULLIVAN As of last night, things were not weren't prepared to play consistent­Sports Editnl" bouncing along as well for Mary OiS­ly. Practice is preparing to win, and, tani~.iao·s team. A tough 59-56 loss to especially in close games, you can't As the cliche goes, "what a dif· Loyola of Chicago in the ACC has go through the motions. You have to 
ft:rence a year makes." dropped the Irish to 6-9 and ends a know how to win." 

When the Notre Dame womea's very frustrating break for the team. It in oruer to get this point across to basketball team returned from marked the fifth time this year that her players, DiStanislao held semester break last year. it hall just Notre Dame hall droppeu a close practice: after the loss to Loyola. 
had a nine-game win streak snapped game, each one to an unranked While it is too late for the Irish to and held a 9·3 mark. The Irish had team. And the old intensity and make a at the NCAA Tourna·
run not lost a game to an unranked team, cohesion appears to be flickering. ment, it is not too late to find the 
Davis/Domr 

they were winning the close games, "The kids haven't yet learned consistency they need to play up to and they were playing intense bas­about consistency," said an under­expectations. ketball. standably frustrated DiStanislao. "It to play aimlessly and without inten­was obvious on the road trip that we See WOMEN, page 9 sW)'." didn't practice consisteRtly, so we 
Douj( Flutie may hat'e walked away with the game's Most Valuable Player honors, but it was the Notre Dame Fighting Irish who walked away with the 19-18 victory in the 25th anniversary ofthe Liberty Bowl on December 29. See Mike Sullivan's account 
abOVIJ. 




