
----------------------------------------------------------------~~~-------­
Downtown page7 

VOL XIX, NO. 1.-\ WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER I 2, 1984 

Graduate, 2 students implicated in Rockne theft 
Purdue student, sophomores deny involvement in prank 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE were Involved in the plan to steal the Edttor-tn-Cbtef bust, and have helped in hiding the bust since last May. 
Peter E. Sobol, a graduate student The friend, who asked not to be at Purdue University and a 1984 identified, said the abductors en­graduate of Notre Dame, stole the tered the Rockne Memorial at night bust of Knute Rockne from the through underground steam tun­Rockne Memorial last May, accor­nels. The bust was removed from its ding to Robert). Weber, Jr., a Notre pedestal and transported through Dame classmate ofSobol. the tunnds. 
"Pete told me so," Weber said last Last night, Notre Dame security night by telephone from Winter­officer Anne Schellinger said that if park, Fla. "But I don't really know students are apprehended for the who ma'>terminded it." theft of the bust, they probably 
Richard T. Stanage, a 1984 Notre would be referred toJohn Goldrick, Dame graduate who lives in associate vice president for Frankewing, Tenn., said Monday that residence life. in addition to Sobol, Paul R. Wilkins Any decision to issue formal and Christina M. Bird, both sop­charges against students is made by homores at Notre Dame, were also Notre Dame Security Director involved in the theft of the bust. Glenn Terry, Schellinger said. 

statue ofFather Sorin (left) in the lobby of 'Rocknejunior," a smaller-scale version ofthe In a telephone conversation last Monday, Assistant Director of Se­Sorin Hall bas been the vic:tim ofseveral pranks bust whose whereabouts are still unknown, night, Sobol said he took no part in curity Rex Rakow said the depart­during the last 30years. It is nowfilled with con­stands as a replacement statue on thepedestal in the theft. "No. I deny it," he said. ment had received a lead on the crete lbrougb to the pedestal so that future kid­the lobby of the Knute Rockne Memorial build­"I've heard rumors about it just like case, which was forwarded to the nappirlgs are unlikely. ing. everybody else." Los Angeles Police Department. He 
Wilkins and Bird also denied any would not be more specific. involvement in the theft. "Ofcourse Notre Dame security reported the it isn't true," Bird said. theft May 3, 1984.

Storm breaks open hull of sunken 
Wilkins said he had seen the bust On May 18, a single color photo of 
once at a party for graduating the bust accompanied a ransom note 
physics students last May on the that was delivered anonymously to

ship containing radioactive cargo 
shores of Lake Michigan. Sobol, The Observer. Weber and Stanage graduated with The note said the bust would not As..<ioclated Press any of the containers holding 
Belgian coast were warned of the bachelor's degrees in physics. return "till the students have their uranium hexafluoride had escaped potential danger. 
Wilkins and Bird are physics majors. beer." The photo showed the bust, OSTEND, Belgium -Gale force from the hull. "I hope divers can "Taking the pessimistic view, the "Basically, it was done by some in sunglasses, sunning on a beach winds and I 2-foot waves in the carry out an inspection tomorrow containers could roll out of the 
seniors who were graduating," surrounded by a beer keg, a portable North Sea late Monday broke open and see whether the containers are hulk," Gooris said. "Then we'll have Wilkins said. "I didn't have anything stereo and a football. the huU of a sunken freighter carry· in place," he said. to go look for them, and they will be to do with the theft of the statue." Weber, Stanage and Wilkins said 
ing 30 containers of radioactive ma­One crate holding high technol­difficult to trace." Wilkins said he had no idea where the beach in the photo was the shore terial, maritime and salvage officials ogy equipment that was en route to In Paris, a French Atomic Energy 
the bust is located now. "He could of Lake Michigan. Wilkins said he said. the Soviet. Union for the Soviet­Commission spokesman said the be anywhere," Wilkins said. "I saw saw Sobol taking photos of the bust. 
Marc Claus. nautical director of European natural gas pipeline break-up of the Mont Louis did not him. I don't have him. I saw him 'lbree more color photos were the Ostend pilot service, said the washed ashore Monday in Wen­increase the danger of the uranium once. I thought it was a good prank." delivered Monday to the Observer hull of the French freighter Mont duine, a coa'ital resort near Ostend. hexafluoride containers being Sobol said he not seen the bust office, two of which were published /.outs hroke under the "continuous Another Soviet-hound crate was breached. since it was stolen. Wilkins said last in yesterday's issue. One photo attacks of the waves." Claus said he picked up at sea, Drenth said. night Sobol "may have" stolen the shows the bust, dressed in a Purdue had no information on the fate ofthe The equipment included remote "The containers in the Mont bust. "He (Sobol) was there (at the T-shirt, posed outdoors in front ofa :\0 containers of uranium controlled valves and gears in­Louis were resistant while in the Lake Michigan party) when I got West Lafayette road sign, although 
· ht·xafluoride, a slightly radioactive tended to control the flow of gas hull; there is no reason that they there," Wilkins said. "I think he was the bottom centimeter of the photo material that wa'i being shipped to along the pipeline, according to should not resist when on the taking photos (of the bust)." was apparently cut off. the Soviet Union, and he didn't ex­French government officials in Paris. seabed," said the spokesman, who "No," Sobol said, "that's not true The other two photos show the 
clude the possibility they might be They said Saturday the export of the spoke on condition that he not be at all. Period." bust indoors at a ~able. strewn on the sea bed. equipment to the Soviet Union was identified. Bird said she has "never seen" the Yesterday, .The Observer learned "'lbe hull hroke hut the _parts of in keeping with French laws on bust since it was stolen, and said be­that all four photos were processed foreign trade. 
the wreck are still attached by the He said the only uncertainty was if cause of a physical injury, she did at Sixty Minute Color Prints in the how," said Ht"nk Drenth of the Meanwhile, Paul Gooris, of the the containers, made of 16mm steel, not attend the party at Lake Mic­University Park Mall, according to a Dutch salvaging company Smit Tak Belgian salvage company !'Union de would be rolled about by wave ac­manager of the store. Markings on
higan. International. Remorquage et de Sauvetage, said tion on the seabed, but that ap­A friend of Sobol, however, said peared improbable. see ROCKNE, page 4
Drenth added he did not know if civil defense authorities along the yesterday that both Wilkins and Bird 
The 

Notre Dame 
500 
Sophomore jeff Stump tries his band at ml(y course raci11g in a course setup yes­lc't'day at the ACC by IJrJdge. The race u>as a promotional event and all interested sill­dents are im,iled to take a turn. The wimu.,. ui/1 get a trip to Daytmw Reach, Fla., during spring break. The course will be open today 
from /0 a.m. to 4 p.m. Stump made /be course in 23.159 seconds. 



..-----------------~·-· -------­
r 
r r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
F 
~ 
The Observer 




In Brief 
The three Notre Dame ROTC programs today 
announced the recipients of three and two-year scholarships. Sop­homores receiving three-year scholarships are Scott Cassidy, Mark Jensen, Arturo Pico, Michael Rensch, Christopher Ryan and Lance Williams. Two-year scholarship recipients are juniors Stephen Blaha, Cynthia Blong, Laura McKnight, Anne· Marie Quinlan and David Wood. These scholarships are worth approximately $8,500 per year. 
-The Obseroer 
Roast beefthat went unrefrigerated for almost ten hours on a warm day was responsible for a salmonella poisoning epidemic that killed 26 patients in a northern England psychiatric hospital, a medical expert said Monday. Geoffrey Ireland, district medical offi­cer of the Wakefield Health Authority, said an investigation would have to be held to find out why the beef was taken out of cold storage. Since the outbreak more than two weeks ago, 26 elderly patients at the 900-bed Stanley Royd Hospital have died. At the height of the epidemic, 346 patients and at least 40 staff members underwent treatment. -AP 
Hurricane Diana, whirling 135 mph winds around its eye, slammed into North Carolina's southeastern coast yesterday night, with torrential rain and tree-bending wind that threatened to push tides up to 12 feet above normal. Thousands ofpeople fled to higher ground. At 8 p.m., winds were clocked at 100 mph at Yaupon Beach on Oak Island near Cape Fear. At nightfall the eye of the first Atlantic hurricane ofthe season was just off the coast, about 30 miles south-southeast of downtown Wilmington. The hurricane's storm surge ofhigh water was expected to coincide with a full moon high tide. "Hurricane Diana is now a dangerous hurricane," the National Weather Service said. "Further strengthening is likely." -AP. 
A 13-year-old Los Angeles girl has been charged with murder in the death ofa man who was shot and then cut into pieces and dumped in a trash bin, authorities said. The girl, whose name was not released because of her age, was arraigned Friday on one count of murder and one count of accessory to murder, District Attorney Spokesman AI Albergate said Monday. He said she remained in cus­tody, and an adjudication hearing-the juvenile court equivalent ofa trial-was set for Oct. 15. Police also charged Marta Palacio, 27, of Boyle Heights, with aiding in the murder, Albergate said. Ms. Palacio pleaded innocent and was being held in lieu of $50,000 bail, Al­bergate said. -AP 
I Of Interest 
Wayne Newton, the popular Las Vegas entertainer, will not lecture in Father George Wiskirchen's Introduction toJazz class today. said Joe Sassano, program manager for the ACC. A conflict in the singer's schedule prevents him from arriving in South Bend in time for the class. Newton will still perform tonight at the ACC. ·The Observer 
A memorial Mass for Kevin Emery, a 
Notre Dame student and Flanner resident who was killed in an auto· mobile accident on Sept. 12, 1982, will be held tonight at 10:30 in the Flanner Hall chapel. -The Observer 

Weather 
Mostly sunny and warm today with the high in the lower 80s. Fair and warmer tonight with the low in the mid 60s. Very warm tomorrow with the high in the mid to upper 80s. Partly sunny with a 20 percent chance of thunder­showers. -AP 
The Observer-
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Assodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ................. Guillermo Suarez Layout Staff................................... Andy Saal Typesetters ..................................... Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor ................................ Mary Healy Copy Editor ...............................John Heasly Sports Copy Editor ........... Theron Roberts Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe Features Layout............ Margaret McCabe ND Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker Ad Design.................... AnnaMarie Furleigh 
John O'Connor Pbotograpber ............................. Mary Flynn 
-----------·--------------------------~­
Wednesday, September 12, 1984 -page 2 



The press as a source of political decision-making 
Everyday, newspapers provide a variety of services for their readers. Information, entertainment and opinion are only a few of the things newspapers bring into our homes and offices daily. They can also pass the time during lunch. 
But this year newspapers can play an especially cru­cial role for their readers. With Walter Mondale and Ronald Reagan both running around the nation trying to get elected president, the front page allows the reader to follow the politicians on the campaign trail while the opinion page gives the reader insight into the rhetoric that gets thrown around. 
Without the daily newspaper, it would be very diffi­cult for the public to gaitl even the most basic under­standing of the Issues. Even someone so caught up in the busy world that he or she must resort to depending on television or radio to substitute for the paper is being cheated of the time and detail that is so important in devising political decisions. 
The limits of television and radio forbid the insight available in a newspaper. The nightly network news programs can only provide their viewers a few minutes on each candidate or issue. And radio news shows suffer the same drawback. Even paid political announce­ments aren't very lengthy and In recent years they have given up substance for glitter or mud-slinging. The Gary Hart/Walter Mondale A v~IIAable primary ads as well as the 
ReSource
$400,000 Reagan/Bush film shown at the Republican convention are two of the more obvious examples. 
Worse than this is the per­son who doesn't make any time at all to find out what is going on around the city, country or nation. Students can often find themselves in this situation. But it is a crime to exist in a world and not know what is happen· ing within it. 
While some papers are better than others at provid­ing an objective news section and a thoughtful opinion page, it is important for the American voter to utilize their local press, both on the front and inside pages, to guide or at least expand his or her political thought. 
Unfortunately, this is not always the case. In fact, the majority of voters defer from incorporating the inter­pretations ofothers in forming their own opinion. Many people use other input, such as voting for the man who agrees with them on one issue -or even which can­didate is more charismatic. 
It is a pity that people can decide who will mold their future on the basis ofwho kisses babies better. But it is a fact ofcontemporary political life. 
··························································· 
Faatb u 
tortheeeu® 
THE GAME .. , 3 vers1ons are offered 1n I game. College. NFL and USFL. You and your lnends will have hours of lun coaching your favorite learns aga1nst each olher: II oHens1ve and 6 delens1ve plays are included. You will agree thai 1n every respect this is the most realisl1c game you have ever played Individual player ar.d team slats are tabu· laled by lhe computer, so all you have to worry about is beating your opponent 
THE TEAMS ... This game contains the mosl ~haust>ve hst of teams you w111 lind in a football game anywhere. Each learns ball handlers are raled to perlorm realisiiCally JUSt as they did 1n real lile.lncluded are 121 current College and Pro Teams (1nclud1ng lhe 181984 USFL Teams). Also available are 145 college and 48 NFL Teams olthe past 
Game runs on 48K Apple II'. lie. lie or II plus (1 Disk) DOS. ver 3.3 
3 in I loolbal! game including 75 "83 College Teams. 28 "83 NFL Teams. 18 ·s4 USFL Teams 24.99 Addil1onal Teams on separale diskette 145 ("59­"82) College Teams ol past, 48 ("50-"82) NFL Teams 10.00 
Cash Check Money Order LANCE HAFFNER GAMES P. 0. Box 100594 Nashville. Tennessee 37210
:.......................................................... 


DIUII 

DRIIIII 
lSI
Cl 

OFFENSE 
It's no accident Dan McCullough 


News Editor 
Inside Wednesd 

Most every student, faculty and staffmember at Notre Dame is past the voting age ofeighteen. The intellectual level of thought here is much higher than other places in the country, so it follows that members of the Notre Dame community would not submit to such unintellec· tual political decision-making processes. But it ain't necessarily so. 
Some people who claim to be the most ardent liberals are actually the most narrow-minded. And many con· servatives wouldn't listen to a wordJesse Jackson or Tip 
O'Neill said if you paid them. 
It is so important to listen to and consider what everybody has to say · from the far left to the reactionary right. No matter what a per­son thinks he or she believes, it could only bene­fit him or her to listen to al­ternative positions. The best liberals are open to any and all opinion. And the most worthy conservatives don't flaunt their hawkishness. Rather, they hear everybody and digest everything in the formation of their own choice. 
The main thing is not to be a Republican or Demo­crat, but to be a listener and 
a chooser. And the place to get such input -the place where you will find both extremes, as well as the middle ground, presented in an intelligent context -is in the stories and opinions ofthe newspaper. 
The newspaper is one of the few forums where such an exchange of thought can take place in popular cul­ture. But before a voter walks into the booth and shuts that curtain, he will have taken the best advantage ofhis right if he takes a careful look at what he is doing. And the newspaper offers him that scrutiny. 
lbe views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1984-page 3 

'lltc Obsci'Ycr/Mary flynn 
Birthday splash 
Freshman Cectlta Mast gets a birthday present she didn't askfor in a traditional Notre Dame·style "laking." In an affectionate gesture, Her friends threw her into St. Mary's Lake Monday. 
QOOOOQOQOCQOOC)Qc;.ooooQQ~~
IDbt 1Kniglyts nftltt Cltastlt 
' ' Men's Hair Styling at Its finest 
• s 
m~·;~~;;~UTS 
272-0312 Welcome Back 277-1619 Students 
'\of 'i.\.\ l'crr;u:e l.:.~ne 

( St H.d .2 .\) .\no~~ rrom Marun·s Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 



PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S. Navy Supply Corps has openings In training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to Immediate managerial positions In one of the following areas: 
* 
Systems Inventory management 

* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management 


Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance· 
ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age limit 29. Call Navy Toll Free 
1·800-382·9782 
Navy repre•entatlve on caaapu• Oct. 10 &: 11 at the Placement Office 

Club planning alcohol alternatives 
By CAROL CAMP 
Sent or StaffReporter 
Ever since the new alcohol policy was enacted, you haven't had any fun, right? There's no social life on campus, you say? Ifthe officers ofthe newly created Social Alternatives Club have their way, students will 

, soon have nothing but the North Dining Hall walls to complain about. Last April, Lee Broussard, Vince 
Pryor,  Kevin  Miller,  Phil  Buckin­ 
gham,  Mike  Muscara,  and  Cheryl  
Miller  decided  to  form  a  group  

which would plan innovative non­alcoholic campus events. Miller ad­mits the idea originally began as "a joke, but then we saw the potential for it and began coming up with Ideas." 

The group's objective, according to Buckingham, Is "to work around the alcohol policy. We feel that people are creative enough to come up with new Ideas, and we want to be able to try out the dltferent Ideas that people have." · 
Since this semester, the group has been planning a variety of campus events. So far, two dances are sched­uled for Haggar Center (SMC), Sept. 29 and Dec. I. Also, the classic cult flick, Rocky Horror Picture Show, will be shown at Stepan Center on Nov. 16 and 17. 
Other tentative plans Include: a campus-wide talent show, a Chicago Cubs trip, a T-shlrt sale at the Miami game, an lnterhall "Wacky Olym­pics" competition, and a dance In which dorms would be divided into three groups ofeight, each featuring 
a dltferent type of music. 
In order to plan successful campus events, the officers ofthe So­cial Alternatives Club need student input. The club's first general meeting will be Tuesday, Sept. 18 at 7 p.m. In the Uttle Theatre in LaFortune. All Interested students are encouraged to attend. 


Jury investigates labor secretary 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK · A state grand jury is completing an Investigation of alle­gations that U.S. labor Secretary Raymond Donovan's former con­struction company falsifled records In a federally funded subway proj­ect, it was disclosed Monday. 
A lawyer for Schiavone Construc­tion Co. said Donovan has been Invited to testify before the grand jury In the New York City borough of the Bronx. A prosecutor said the 
panel Is focusing on allegations of grand larceny, perjury, falsiflcation of business documents and tamper­Ing with public records. The Investigation was disclosed in a suit filed by the Secaucus, NJ.­based firm, which Is asldng for a U.S. District Court order barring Bronx District Attorney Mario Merola from seeking an Indictment of the com-


pany or Its officers. 

The suit contends the Investiga­tion was an unfair attempt to harass Schiavone and Donovan. U.S. Dls­trictjudge Leonard Sand promised a ruling on the request yesterday. 
Donovan was executive vice pres­ident of Schiavone before joining the Reagan administration. Two in­vestigations by a special prosecutor, Leon Silverman, into allegations 

Rockne 
continued from page 1. 

the back ofthe photo serve as identi­fication, he said. The photos were taken with a Kodak disk camera, the manager said. 
The store, however, does not keep records of Its customers' names. 
Donovan had ties to organized crime when he was at Schiavone found "insufficient credible evidence" of any wrongdoing. 
Donovan's attorney, William Bit· tman confirmed he met with prosecutors. "The only thing I can say Is that I have not been advised that Secretary Donovan is a target of the grand jury Investigation," he said. 
One of the photos delivered Mon­day was apparently taken after the Purdue-Notre Dame football game Saturday In Indianapolis. The photo depicts the bust with an ax, and a sticker attached in the shape of a voice balloon which reads, "Where's Gerry?!" 
A person speaking by phone from the South Bend home ofSobol's mot· her said last night that Sobol was In town Saturday and Sunday. 
Last May, Stanage told The Observer in an unpublished com­ment that he had heard the bust would "reappear" after the Purdue game. 
Interviewed last night In a physics lab on the fourth floor of Nieuwland Science Hall, Wilkins said Sobol "may have" stolen the bust. When asked why he had a stack of yester­day's Observers on the desk, Wilkins said he Is keeping them for a "scrapbook" for the physics depart­ment. 




_.,.. 
~ 
.§mw §JP(\J)rt&, UJrulimntt~tdlg ll®.cc 
Skydiving Instruction and Paraplane Flight Instruction 
llt·IH-31H ........ llf.la6-1663 Ho•• 
TYPING 
Term Papers *Resumes ,.Letters *Manuscripts 
•Word Processing 
CaD Chris At: 
234-8997 
r----~ Observer Wednesday, September:-.-1-984-page 4 
~ --------------------------------------------------------~­
Mondale and Reagan trade tax attacks on campaign trail 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan denounced Walter Mondale's deficit-reduction pro­gram yesterday as little more than a "tax increase plan," but Mondale renewed his challenge to the presi­dent to come up with a blueprint of his own to reduce the red ink. 
Budget deficits have soared to record levels in Reagan's term in of­fice, and the red ink is estimated to reach S1 72 billion for the current fiscal year. The president said the deficits would be $40 billion to S50 billion lower if Congress has ap­proved all the spending cuts he re­quested. 
Reagan also announced he would 
meet with Soviet Foreign Minister 
Program to increase rectors' dorm interaction 
By CAROL CAMP 
SentorStaffReporter 
District 2 Student Senator Pat 

Browne announced the creation of 
an "Improved Student-Rector Rela­
tions Program" at last night's Hall 
Presidents Council meeting. 
The program's purpose, accor­

ding to Browne, is to provide hall 
rectors and presidents with the op­
portunity to reevaluate the rector's 
involvement in their dorm's social 
life. 
Because of the new alcohol 
policy, Browne feels hall presidents 
should make an increased effort "to 
integrate their rectors further into 
hall social life." 
Rectors will be asked to fill out a 
questionnaire evaluating their in­
volvement in their dorm's social life. 
Next hall council members will dis­
cuss their rector's role and, working 
in cooperation with the rector, at­
tempt any necessary improvement 
in student-rector interaction. 
Browne said this discussion will 
be "a good opportunity to challenge 
the rector's opinions on how to im­
prove hall social life." 
In other business, Student Activi­
ties Director Joni Neal clarified the 
Office of Student Activities' conces­
sion stand policy. Neal explained 
that due to restrictions established 
by the Athletic Department, only 15 
concession stands can be awarded 
to dorms, clubs, and organizations 
on home football weekends. No 
more than three ofthese concession 
stands are permitted to sell non-food 
items. 
Neal assured HPC members that 

the lottery for the 1985-86 season, 
which is tentatively scheduled for 
the second week of April, will be 
well-publicized in order to avoid 
confusion. 
Also, World Hunger Coalition rep­

resentative Carol Fredrick asked hall 
presidents to encourage people to 
sign up for Wednesday lunch fast. 
Fredrick explained that the dining 
halls will give the WHC one dollar 
for every student who gives up his 
Wednesday lunch. The money col­
lected helps finance eight missions 
in India, Africa, and Bangladesh. 
Andrei Gromyko later this month, but Mondale countered that it was "pretty pathetic" for the president to wait until his re-election cam­paign for his first session with a senior Soviet official. 
While Reagan and his Democratic challenger clashed over the budget and U.S.-Soviet relations, their run­rting mates talked of abortion. 
"I will be judged by my maker," said Democratic vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro, a Cath­olic who personally. opposes abor­tions but favors giving women the right to· choose, and has drawn criticism from her archbishop over the issue. 
Vice Preside~tt George Bush, cam­paigning in Charleston, S.C., said he personally favors permitting rape victims to undergo abortions, despite Reagan's support for a con­stitutional amendment to ban all such operations. 
All four candidates campaigned · even though the president never left the White House -as their aides ar­
-
ND-SMC Council for the Retarded 

(LOGAN CENTER) 
Organizational Meeting 8 p.m. Thursday (9/13) at the Center for Social Concerns 
New Volunteers Welcome 
BLAST THE BLAHS THIS SEMESTER MARVEL DC 


At MICOMIX & ARCADE we hove o full line of 
new and bock issue comics along with a 
full range of other collector items. 
ALL ND STUDENTS RECEIVE A 1 O% DISCOUNT THIS MONTH 
MICOMIX STORE 
1346 E. Mishawaka 234-1038 
University of Notre Dame 
Foreign StudyPrograms 

.. •J'· i:P'-~~·· 1..!-.~­
Tia~in, china 
NOTRE DAME FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAM TO 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN A 
Summer 1985 Program 
wuo: Undergrads &Grads WHAT: Information Meeting WHEN: Sept. 6, 6:30p.m. WHERE: Admin. Bldg.., ROOM 422 

ranged the second negotiating ses­lion in 1989 to S86 billion. sion in as many days on the subject "What specifically has he pro­of debates. Officials in both camps posed other than some additional have said agreement seems near on a spending and his tax cuts, and hack­plan for perhaps two Reagan­ing away at the defense budget," Mondale debates, with one con­Reagan said. He apparently meant to frontation between Bush and say tax increases instead of tax cuts, Ferraro. since Mondale's plan calls for S85 
billion in higher taxes, as well as S 2 5 
In a 12-minute appearance before billion in cuts from Reagan's defense reporters at the White House, budget and other reductions. Most Reagan dismissed Mondale's new of the tax increases would be felt by budget plan, which would trim upper-income wage earners and deficits from a projected S263 bil-corporations. 
~-------------------------­
General Meeting 
Notre Dame Student Lobby 
Get involved with this opportunity to represent the student voice and to participate in Student Government. 
Where: LaFortune, Chautaqua 
When: Wednesday, September 12, at 9:00p.m. 

Help us Make Music 
at Sacred Heart Parish 
Singers, instrumentalists, won't you volunteer 
for 
9:30a.m.-traditional SATB choir 
10:45 a.m.-contemporary combo-vocalists guitars, flute, etc. 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor. . . .  . . Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager .......Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager. . . . . . ... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters.  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  

The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1984 -page 5 

APPhoto 
mp.b. during a raceSunday on theFraser RiveratMis­sion, eastofVancouver. 

Do you know someone who is dying lobe thin? 
Nearly one-third of the worlds population goes hungry because of poverty. And nearly 200/o of the young female population in the United States also starves-hut by choice. Because they're dying to be thin. 
Anorexia Nervosa. Bulimia. Two serious eating disorders. Illnesses that can affect people of all ages... and are most common among young women. 
Symptoms-although not all victims display all of them-can include abnormal weight loss. Refusal to eat, except for tiny por­tions. Binging. Vomiting. Abuse of laxatives. Denial of hunger. Excessive exercise. Depression. Preoccupation with food. Absent or irregular menstruation. 
And the effects can be life-long or even fatal. 
Now there is HOPE -Healthy Options for Problem Eaters. A therapeutic program developed by Memorial Hospital of South Bend. HOPE is designed to help those with eating disorders return to a normal, healthy lifestyle, because Anorexia and Bulimia can be cured. But early detection is vital. 
If you know someone who is a victim of an eating disorder, you can help. Register by September 14 for HOPEs next 10-week session which begins September 18. Call284-7308 for further information. Because HOPE can help. 

HOPE 

Healthy Options for Problem Eaters An affil1ate of Memonal Hosp1tal of South Bend rn 
Soviet official replaced following heart attack 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, West Germany -A research institute said yesterday that Marshal Nikolai V. Ogarkov suffered a heart attack before being replaced as the Soviet Union's No. 2 defense official. 
There has been no official Soviet explanation why the 66-year-old So­viet chiefofthe general staffand first depury defense minister was relieved of his duties. He had been considered a possible successor to 75-year-old Soviet Defense Minister Dmitri F. Ustinov. 
The Frankfurt Institute for Soviet Studies said in a one-paragraph news release that Ogarkov "suffered a heart attack and was taken to the Burdenko Military Hospital in Mos­cow on the 3-4 September." 
The institute statement and spokesmen for the institute said they did not draw any connection be­tween Ogarkov's reported illness and his replacement by Marshal Ser­gei N. Akhromeyev. 
The official Soviet news agency Tass announced Sept. 6 that Ogarkov was relieved ofhis duties in connection with a new appoint­ment. Tass did not specify Ogarkov's new duties nor say why he was replaced by Akhromeyev. 
Spokesmen for the Soviet Fort'ign 
1 Ministry in Moscow could not be 
1 reached by telephone yesterday for 
1 
comment on the institute report. 
1 
In cases when Soviet officials arc 
,1 
replaced because they arc ailing, an official announcement generally gives that as the reason for the change in leadership. 
1 
On Monday, in an interview with ~ NBC, the 61-year-old Akhromeyev said Ogarkov would continue to "carry out responsible tasks in the military defense of the Soviet Union." He did not elaborate on Ogarkov's duties. 
One institute spokesman, who spoke on condition he not be identi­fied, said information about Ogarkov's reported heart attack was given to the institute's director, Nicolae Nor-Mesek, by a reliable source with access to such informa­tion. 
Nor-Mesek was not available for comment. His staff initially said he was at lunch. Later, the Institute tele­phone operator said he had left for the day. 
The independent Frankfurt in­stitute coUects, translates and dis­seminates information about the Soviet Union under private contract from the West German government and others. 

NICK & KENNY'S 
formerly Nickles 
Try our Famous "Nickie Burger" 
and 
Homemade Onion Rings! Pitchers 8250 12:00-4:00 
****-*******************************~
* -·. lt­: * The CoUege of Science : * * *
** is seeking a Student ** : Representative to the : : Academic Council. :* Interested students * : should submit a short : : letter of application ~ : to the Dean's office, 229 Nieuwland, by :* Friday,Sept.14. OpentoaiiCollegeof * : Science students. For more info contact : : Dean's office. : 
:**********************************~ 

'.''' 

• o I I\ I • • • • • • • • t • • 
The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1984 -page 6 
Pope calls Canadians away from modern 'spiritual desert' 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL · Pope John Paul II, paCish priest for a day to this bustling northern metropolis, beckoned Canadians yesterday to leave the "spirirual desert" of the modern world and rediscover God. 
"Nothing can fill the emptiness of his absence!" the pontiff, wagging a finger, preached to more than 300,000 people in centralJarry Park. 
It was the biggest crowd ever as­sembled in this French-Canadian city. 
The pope, whose visit has stirred protests among feminists here, also took note of the expanding role of women in the liberal Canadian church. 
But he said nothing to alter his staunch defense of traditional church positions against women priests, divorce, artificial contracep­tion or abortion. 
One Montreal group scheduled a march late yesterday to demonstrate opposition to the pope's conserva­tive stands on such issues. 
Materialism and women were central themes on the third day of John Paul's 12-day Canadian tour. His evening schedule included a rally with Roman Catholic youth at Montreal's Olympi~ Stadium. 
Tens of thousands of Montreal's three million people jammed the sidewalks on a gray and drizzly day to cheer the pontiff pass in his bubble-domed popemobile. Catho­lic schoolchildren, given the day off, waved papal flags. 

Enthusiasm for the papal visit masked serious problems within Quebec province's once-powerful church. Today two-thirds of Quebec's Catholics do not practice their religion, evidence of the 
growing secularism of recent decades. 
On his first stop of the day, the pope told the Quebec clergy he was aware oftheir problems. 
"You have been witnessing ... a more materialistic, more selfish atti· tude to life," he said at a meeting with 3,000 priests and seminarians at St. Joseph's Oratory. 
, 
r 
r 
r r 
r r 
' ~ 
' 
,r ., ~ 
,.
., 
,... 
r 
r r 
r 
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r r 
~ 
,.. 
,.. 
r 
,... 
r 
r r r r 
r
,. 
r 
r 
r­
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
[ 
r 
Inonehout; you can tty to break"Tmy"1etwilligerS record*of eating sixextralarge pizzaswithanchovies or learn how to slice your d time inhal£ And thafs no fish_ story. As you'll discover by coming to one of our free One Hour Seminars. Where you'll also discover how to enjoy more free time in college. For whatever you want to do. Eating pizzas. Attending rock concerts. Partying. Or engaged in trivial pursuit At our free seminar, we'll also show you how you can triple your reading effectiveness, raise your grade point average, and end your cramming forever. Bring a friend and join us at our seminar. Ifs only an hour. Ifs free. And ifs a smart move on your part No matter how you slice it *Unofficial record reported in 1983 by a fellow fraternity brother who then Oed the "Atsamaboy" Pizza Palace in Los Angeles in total disgust. Restaurant is no longer in operation.  
FreeSeminarSchedule LOCATION:CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION (DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM MORRIS INN ON NOTRE DAME AVE.) ~ROOM 200 WEDNESDAY 9/12 2pm, 4pm, & 6pm EvelynWoocf ,. College ProgramsTHURSDAY 9/13 1pm, 3pm, & 5pm 'I Choose the day and time most convenient for you. Reservations not necessary. For more information calll (800) 447-READ.  


Showcase 
Wednesday, September 12, 1984 -page 7 
A stroll through downtown South Bend 
by Cat Francis 
features columnist 
D
owntown South B~nd. What is it? How does one get there? Does it have chocolate chip cookies? 
First things first. To get to down· town South Bend, the thrill-seeking student needs to either find a friend with a ear or take tht· bus. Confus· ingly enough, the bus this student should take is not dearly marked "Downtown South Bend." Instead, it bears the words "Scottsdale Mall." Throw all rational thought procedures out the nearest window and board this bus. 
The bus ride should take I 0 to I 5 
minutes. If you remain aboard the 
bus over an hour, something is 
dcfinitdy wrong and there is a 
more than small chance that you. 
are lost. In such eases, ask the bus 
driver or a friendly-looking fellow 
passenger for assistance. 
Assuming that you have made it 
to the downtown area and disem· 
barked, you will find yourself in an 
immense parking lot, filled with 
buses and various people waiting to 
gt·t on them. Yes, this is downtown 
South Bend. Turn and look at the 
Courthouse. '!be street between 
you and it is Main Street. Turn 
around. lbc street between you .and Oseo's is Michigan Street. 
Knowing thest· two streets, you're 
rt·ady to roll. 
When facing Osco's, north is to 
your left and south is to your right. 
Go one block south on Michigan. 
You arc now in Center City Plaza, 
one ofSouth Bend's major attempts 

at urban renewal. On your right IS 
Robertson's. Beyond Robertson's is 
a jeweler's, a candy store, and the 
Dainty Maid Bake Shop. The Dainty 
Maid Bake Shop has enough pastries 
and sweet gooey things to set a 
dentist up for life. Sometimes they 
will have displays ofcake decorat· 
ing in the window, where you will 
see cverthing from "Happy 
Birthday" to a Boy George motif. 
Across the way is a shop that sells 
futons. Futons are japanese mat· 
tresses which look a little like 
bedrolls but are amazingly com­
fortable. I bought a futon last year 
and have slept on it ever since. 'Ibe 
only problem with them is that any 
pets in the household will also like 
the futon, which they perceive as a 
giant pillow laid on the floor en· 
tirely for their delight. 
Ablock further south Is the Cor· nucopia, a vegetarian restaurant ·which has just recently added the heresy ofchicken and fish onto its 
menu. They carry Haagen Dazs ice cream and "natural" soda pops bearing names like Corr's Ginseng 
Rush or Mandarin Lime Soda. 
Another block south is Inwood's. Inwood's is a giant gold mit;~e of tacky things. Enter at your own risk. 
Return north. and one block past Osco's is Fannie May Candy and the French Market, which specializes in croissants. Another block takes you to the Morris Civic Auditorium, and the fountain and statue. South Bend opinion is divided on the worth of this statue, which depicts either a woman or a musical instrument, depending on how you look at it. 
Turn left on LaSalle and you'll wander past the Griffon Bookstore, which carries science fiction and fantasy, as well as an extensive line of wargames. Above the store is a set ofrooms which are used for playing wargames on Thursday and Friday evenings and Saturday after· noons. In the basement are walls lined with used books in a number ofcategories. One block further east is Stoner's Costume Store. The display win· dows are rowed with masks ranging from E.T. to Ronald Reagan. Besides the masks, costumes and stage make-up, Stoner's carries enough practical jokes to drive your roommate up the wall for the rest of the semester. 


In the course of your excursion, you will have noticed an immense glass building, across from the French Market. This is the Marriot Hotel. Southeast ofit is the South Bend Century Center. 
The Century Center is worth paying a visit. It holds the Studebaker Museum, which details a large portion ofSouth Bend his· tory and an Art Gallery. 'Ibe view of the St. joseph River is wonderful, and from the pier, you can see the way to get across the river and to the East Race, which is equally worthy ofa visit. 
A glimpse down Main Street, one ofthe "main drags" in downtown South Bend. 
Yep, God's still an Irish fan 
-------------------Irish have a good shot at havin' a better than
by Marc Ramirez 
average season this year, a sorta condensed version ofall those articles that appear on the features COlumnist sports pages around this time. And as 
1-------------------anybody will tell you, I am one of the world's 
S
o there we were, just sittin' around in 
front ofGate Three at the ACC, waitin' for 
football tickets about seven in the ol' a.m. 
And along come all the coaches in their cars, 
and finally along comes Gerry. 
Well, ofcourse he moseys on into the 
building sa yin' good morning to everyone 
because he is a great guy, and ofcourse 
everyone greets him bal·k even though we all 
wish we wert· back asleep in bed. 
"Waitin' for football tickets, huh?" he says, and we all nod a-; he disappt·ars inside the door. 
Well, tht·n this one guy decides to a<;k out loud, "Is it worth it?" And everyone kinda laughs thinkin' ol' Gerry hadn't heard until he sticks his head out the door and says, "It's worth it this year." 
Naturally everyone is pretty freaked out and I myself am sittin' there lookin' like I've just partaken in some very wild drugs or somethin', and I think, maybe this season won't be so long after all. 
Uut I know what you're sayin': you're sayin', hey, Marc, weren't you there? Didn't you see what happened in the Hoosier Buddy Dome last Saturday? 
Yeah, I saw it. I was there in some aisle miles from where I shoulda been, in front ofa rude Purdue fan who wa'i most likely a pupil of my good buddy Sir Obnoxious, and I saw what happened, and I know the final score and all that. 
But It don't matter. Because after a few hours ofpainstakln' thought, I'm going to tell you why I think the 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------·-----­
premier authorities on sports. 
No, seriously. I am. 
Someone even told me I should stick to writin' sports. I was flattered, considerin' I 
hadn't written a sports article since the I I th grade or so. 
Anyway, I know that sayin' the Irish have a good chance ofwalkin' away with the top ranking isn't much different from anything you've been hcarin' for the last four years. Notre Dame's had enough talent in that time to be the L.A. Raiders' farm team, and why we haven't gone out there and beat the stuffings out ofeveryone we've played used to be a mystery to me. 
But you see, my keen sports insight has given me the inside lowdown on the situa· tion. Remember all that stuff you used to hear about God makin' Notre Dame number one, and how you started to figure it was all just a bunch of hogwash? Well, it ain't. Nope, no way, no how. God has been on vacation in Sedona, Arizona, that's all. But He's back now, and He promises tohelp Notre Dame win it this year, and to do that He has provided us with some very powerful secret weapons. 
lbere's this guy named Allen Pinkett that God sent down from Heaven who sniffs out the end zone like it was rubber glue and who on an average day can run arounp and under and past just about anythin' the opposin' team puts in his path. lben there's this dude named Chris Smith who has virtually no trouble blowin' over or through anythin' that gets in his way, and actually, lookin' at the display of muscles on this guy, I don't think I'd be out there givin' him much trouble either. 
Luckily, should these guys get a little tired and start forgettin' how to woosh or blow past people they can count on the front line to open up nice big gapin' holes to run through. Granted, every team the Irish play is gonna have some pretty big dudes up front on the defense, but these gentlemen are downrighthuge. Some of them are so strong they have muscles on their earlobes. Take Larry Williams, for example. The last figures I heard on this guy were somcthin' like 6-6 and 270, but I think that was referrin' to city blocks and tons. No, really. I had a class with him once and he barely fit behind his desk. 

However, should this massive front line start forgettin' how to bulldoze over people then it would be a very sad situation indeed, as you saw last Saturday. 
But then you got receivers like Alvin Miller and Milt jackson and joe Howard who remind me ofSnap, Crackle and Pop because they're always runnin' around somewhere and one of'em always seems to be open, but sometimes I think that once they get past maybe thirty yards from the line of scrimmage, they turn invisible and no one can see them anymore. 
On defense there is a linebackin' crew who I have decided I will hire someday to remove cars that take my parkin' space. I happen to reside a few doors down from Mike Gann, and ifhe wants to use the shower on the left, then who am I to stop him, that's the way I look at it. 
Ofcourse we've got our weaknesses, and perhaps a halfway inexperienced secondary that quarterbacks are naturally goin' to try to beat up on is the biggest, or maybe it's the fact that if one jolly good afternoon Steve Beuerlein suddenly goes down clutchin' any part ofhis anatomy like it needs to be replaced then we could be in for some serious trouble. 
Or maybe it's our special teams, or maybe it's the fact that those special teams arc coached by grad students, or maybe it's that 
ifAllen Pinkett decides to have an off day 
then maybe we don't stand a very good 
chance ofwinnin'. 
But with all that talent from all those high schools with all that intelligence, and all those coaches with all that experience, and all the hype and all the optimism, well, then, what happened? , 
Well, the way I look at it, two things. One, too many silly mistakes. Maybe some of them defensive dudes we play have been learnin' tactics similar to havin' football-seekin' missiles implanted in their hands, but we seem to cough up the ball an awful lot. And the penalties? Well, take away the openin' kickoff fumble and the twelfth man on the field that led to a Purdue teedee, and what do you got? 21-13, Irish. Or something like that. 
Second, we don't seem to have the ol' quality known as killer instinct. Personally, I never enjoyed playin' catch-up anythin' and I would be as sure as I could that ifI had a lead, I kept it to no one but myself until the next full moon. Let's blow some teams away and not worry about what they think. 52·6 sounded nice to me. 
Well, God was at the Purdue game and his head wao; hangin' just like anyone else's when our final hope wa<; snuffed out by a decent interception, and he says to me, Marc, I can't help mistakes because I help those who help themselves, and as for that ol' killer instinct, well, that's something y'all have to work out for yourselves because as you know, the sixth commandment says thou shalt not have killer instinct, hut ifit's Notre Dame, then it's okay with Me .. 
So good luck, and I wish you all the best, but I've got to return to Heaven to take care of more important things so you just start doin' some winnin' and I'll take care ofthe Hail Mary passes and stuff like that. You're still my team. Go Irish. 
Sports Briefs 
The Women's Cross-Country Team of 
Notre Dame will travel to Hillsdale, Mich., this Saturday, September 1 5 to compete against seven varsity teams from Michigan and In­diana in the Third Annual Hillsdale Invitational. Veteran Mike Glynn returns as head coach of the Irish this season, with assistance from senior Carrie Rowe. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will have an organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Rockne gym­nastics room. All old members and those interested in joining are asked to attend. -The Observer 
I 
Wednesday, September 12, 1984-page 8 
The Notre Dame hockey team will hold an 
organizational meeting tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC football 
~ring
auditorium. All those interested in playing this season must attend. ­
The Observer 

Advice .--~ cansa'!~­
The Squash Club will hold a meeting tomorrow at 7 
p.m. in the New Orleans room of Lafortune. All members are re­
alife ~ 
quired to attend and bring a $10 fee. For more information, call Sean 
.,..._.
at 277-3953. -1be Observe_r 

,.,.· 
The Ohserr•er Notn: Dame office. locatt·d on the third floor of LaFortune Student Centn. acn·pts dassifieq advertbing from') a.m. until -t p.m.. :\1onday through Friday. The Ohserz•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts dassifieds from 12:~0 p.m. until 5 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline filr next-day classilkds is 5 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charg<· is I 0 n·nb pn five charac-
Classifieds 
ters erda ·. · 
NOTICES 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leedefahip Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS I See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad· venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-B534 after 5:30 
BRIDGE BRIDGE BRIDGE Who says there's nothing to do? Call Town & Country Bridge Canter at 255­6613 for more information. 
Wordproceesing and typing. 272-8827 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
DO YOU KNOW SOMEONE WHO's DYING TO BE THIN? Anorexia nervosa and bulimia are serious eating disorders affecting hundreds of young women on the Notre Dame/St. Mary's campus. Many promising futures will be disrupted or destroyed by these disorders unless they are treated. But now there is HOPE-­Healthy Options for Problem Eaters, the Memorial Hospital Program lor compre­hensive treatment of these disorders. In· dividual and group therapy is available, with a new 10 week group beginning 9-1 8· 
84. For more information, contact Dr. Daniel Rybicki (formeriy of NO Psych. Serv.) at Memorial Hospital 284·7308. Special rates for ND·SMC community. FULLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL Don't let these disorders ruin your future or that of one's you love...CALL 284­7308, MEMORIAL HOSPITAL for HOPE. 
PROGRESSIVE MUSIC..PROGRESSIVE MUSIC: lnter­
•ted In the club but you mlued our llrat ~ng? QUICK! C.ll Bill Leonerd et 1185 or Keith Herrleon et 3345. Act quickly; the llrat annuel PUNK'N'PIZZA PARTY II comingI 
ECO ECO ECO Environmental Concerns Organization Meeting Wednesday Night 
7:00 Flanner Penthouse 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674· 9182 FOR DETAILS. 
ECO ECO ECO Environmental Concerns Organization Meeting Wednesday Night 
7:00 Flenner Penthouse 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674· 9182 FOR DETAILS. 
ECO ECO ECO Environmental Concerns Organization Meeting Wednesday Night 7:oo Flenner Penthouse 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674· 9182 FOR DETAILS. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST LOST Woman's gold watch-· Timex. Please if you find it or have found it caJIKimat4114. 
LOST: 9/5 BLUE AND WHITE PERFUME ATOMIZER SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SENIOR BAR AND PASOUERILLA EAST. HIGH SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 4233. REWARD. THANK YOU. 
LOBI-Friday, Aug.31st··Denim jacket. Maybe in car that gave us a ride from Grotto to 31? CaH 264-4452 
Found: Dorner keys in Indy. Rm. 351 and -keys. CaH Matt 232-6697' 

Lost-Friday, Aug.31st--Denim jacket. Maybe in car that gave us a ride from Grono to 31 ? Call 264-4452 
Found: Domer keys in Indy. Rm. 351 and car keys. Call Man 232-6697. 
LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES · BROWN FRAMES. LOST SOMEWHERE BE· TWEEN KEENAN & LEWIS. IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO 238 LEWIS OR CALL 2179 AND ASK FOR ALINE. 
LOST: Keyring with the words "Hy-Vee" on it. If found, call283·2202. 
LOST: Gold chain-linked bracelet. If found, please call Kathleen at 284-5457. 
FOR RENT 

LUXURY 2 BEDROOM APT TO SHARE: TENNIS, SAUNA, EXERCISE ROOM, INC. FIREPLACE, LAKEVIEW, DISH· WASHER, HEAT, & MORE! 256-6676 
NEED 1 OR 2 ROOMMATES FOR OFF CAMPUS HOUSE. HOUSE IS ON COR­NER OF N.D. AVE. AND CORBY STREET. CALL JASON AT 234-1253. 
APARTMENT TO SHARE Close to NO 2bedroom/2bsth,A/C,PARKING,POOL, MOD.KITCHEN. WASHER/DRYER $212 MONIUTL CALL 232-0305 
Female interested in living off campus? Space available at Campus View. Call 272·0734. 
WANTED 

SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar· ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559­$50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call 805-667-6000 Ext. R-9834. 
NEEDED: TWO G.A. TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME: CALL 283-3884 
Ride -nted to PURDUE! Any and all weekends. Call Tina at 2n-0151 or Shir· ley at 239-5303. 
WANTED: FULL-TIME BABYSITIER AT MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND OCC. 4 YR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORT A· liON TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA. SAlARIED. REFERENCES. AFTER 6PM CALL: 289-9193. 
IF YOU HAVE PHOTOS OF YOUR UR­BAN PLUNGE, THE CENTER FOR So­CIAL CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE COPIES OF THEM. DROP THEM OFF AT THE FRONT DESK. ALL PHOTOS WILL BE RETURNED. 
NEED RIDERS TO INDIANA U THIS WEEKEND CALL PAUL AT 1034 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND AREA FOR THE WEEKEND OF SEP. 14 AND/ORSEP.28. CAN LEAVEATER 12 NOON. CALL NORMA 2808. 
NEED RIDERS TO ST. LOUIS Fri. 9/28, bsck Sun. 9/30. Susan 283·2783 
Desperately Need Ride to Cols. Ohio Sept. 14 Call Beth SMC-5252 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND AREA FOR THE WEEKEND OF SEP. 14 AND/ORSEP. 28. CAN LEAVEATER 12 NOON. CALL NORMA 2808. 
NEED RIDERS TO ST. LOUIS Fri. 9/28, bsck Sun. 9/30. Susan 283·2783 
Desperately Need Ride to Cola. Ohio Sept. 14 Call Beth SMC-5252 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND AREA FOR THE WEEKEND OF SEP.14 AND/OR SEP. 28. CAN LEAVEATER 12 NOON. CALL NORMA 2808. 
NEED RIDERS TO ST. LOUIS Fri. 9/28, beck Sun. 9/30. Susan 283-2783 
Desperately Need Rlde to Cola. Ohio Sept. 14 Call Beth SMC-5252 
Need ride to Indy this weekend TERRY 1705 
Looking for people and ride to see Cyndi Leuper in Chicago this Sunday at 8 p.m. Call Kevin at 2727. 
Thirsty girts need a ber for our house. Call 233-9415. 
FOR SALE 
MAXELLXL22.751150 
FLOPPIES FOR SALEI (Otaki thM Ia). $1.50 per, JOHN 3582 
1980 Honda Accord 2 door hatchbsck. 5 speed AM-FM Stereo Great gas mileage 49,000 miles $4,BOO CALL 289-3167 
MICHIGAN TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL 1380 
······•····· ............ 
MICHIGAN TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL 1380 
MICHIGAN TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL 1380 
FOR SALE: 70 LTD; PERFECT 0C CARl RELIABLE IN WINTER, EXCEL· LENT CONDITION INSIDE AND OUT, AM/FM CASSETTE. MUST SELL WILL TAKE BEST OFFER. GREG, 283-4115. 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI GAME!!!!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 2n·2581 OR 239-7471.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 6 GA's and 4 STUD's for Air Force Oct. 13. Call Jeff at 232·0904. 
NEED 4 STUD OR GA S.C. TICKETS! 
CALL ROB 4605 OR MICH 1283 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Desperately need COLORADO TICKET call JIM 3467 THANKS 
WANT TO MAKE MONEY? Then sell us your Colorado tickets! We are desperate and will pay well!! Help us! PLEASE!!! Call 283-2083/2084 Ask for Bob, Larry, Sid, or Oscar It's something we've all got to do. 
NEED 5 PENNSTATE TIX CALL DAN 4057 
NEEDED 3 GA AIR FORCE. CALL JAMIE 264-5476 
I HAVE COLORADO STUD. TIX. WANT TO TRADE FOR MIAMI STUD. TIX OR 
G.A.S WILL ALSO TRADE FOR N.D.­MISSOURI TIX CALL 2n·7570!!!!! 
$$$$ BIG BUXXX $$$$ FOR TWO AIR FORCE G.A. TIX CALL JOHN 283-1308 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S TO BUY·· OR WILL TRADE FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL JANET AT 4376 
Need two Colorado tix: call Dave 1700 or Bob1646 
.................................... 
HELPII desperately need 2 Colorado GA tix. Please call Kelly-4308. 
......................... 
Delperltely need 1 Student or Glnerlll 
Aclmlllion ttcket,for the MIAMI g~~me.lf 
you can help C811 Melt at 4013. 
need 2 Colorado GA's Maura x2885 
need2 Colorado GA's Megan 284·5451 
for sale: ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK· AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL KIM AT 291·2957 
Need two Miami GA's. Call Dan: 239­7666 Days: 233-6254 Nights. 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA OR STUD TIX. I HAVE 2 PENN STATE AND 2 AIR FORCE GA'S TO TRADE. JIM 1n2 
PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 MIAMI STU OR GA TICKS 4 MY 2 SISTERS, 2397558 ON SU,TU,TH 6:30-12:30,0R 2833467, GERRY 
DESPERATELY NEED 2GA'S & 1 STU­DENT TIX FOR SOUTH CAROLINA. CALL DEBBIE 2194. 
.................................:······························ 
I NEED MICH ST GAs.272-6306 

NEED MIAMI TICKET, will trade Air Force or S. Car. Call Susan,2783 
NEED 4 COLORADO GA'S. CALL BARRY AT 1847. 
Need COLORADO tix. Call Jay at 1655. 
need 2 Colorado GA's Maura x2865 

need 2 Colorado GA's Megan 284-5451 
for sale; ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK· AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL KIMAT291·2957 
Need two Miami GA's. Call Dan: 239­7666 Days; 233-6254 Nights. 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA OR STUD TIX. I HAVE 2 PENN STATE AND 2 AIR FORCE GA'S TO TRADE. JIM 1772 
PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 MIAMI STU OR GA TICKS 4 MY 2 SISTERS, 2397558 ON SU,TU,TH 6:30-12:30,0R 2833467, GERRY 
DESPERATELY NEED 2GA'S & 1 STU· DENT TIX FOR SOUTH CAROLINA. CALL DEBBIE 2194. 
I NEED MICH ST GAs.272·6308 

NEED MIAMI TICKET, will trade Air Force or S. Car. Call Susan,2783 
NEED 4 COLORADO GA'S. CALL BARRY AT 1847. 
Need COLORADO tix. Can Jay at1655. 
need 2 Colorado GA's Maura x2885 

need 2 Colorado GA's Megan 264-5451 
for sale: ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK· AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL KIM AT 291·2957 
Need two Miami GA's. Call Dan: 239­7666 Days: 233·6254 Nights. 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA OR STUD TIX. I HAVE 2 PENN STATE AND 2 AIR FORCE GA'S TO TRADE. JIM 1n2 
PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 MIAMI STU OR GA TICKS 4 MY 2 SISTERS, 2397558 ON SU,TU,TH 6:30·12:30,0R 2833467, GERRY 
.................................................. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2GA'S & 1 STU­
DENT TIX FOR SOUTH CAROLINA. 
CALL DEBBIE 2194. 
......... ... 
I NEED MICH ST GAs.272·8308 

NEED MIAMI TICKET, will trade Air Force or S. Car. Call Susan,2783 
NEED 4 COLORADO GA'S. CALL BARRY AT 1847. 
Need COLORADO tix. Call Jay at 1655. 
I NEED HELP!! Need 2-4 MIAMI or PENN STATE TIX!! Mom & Dad aredyingtosee a game. Please call Janice 1295 if you can help! 
........•............. 

Sell your Miami GA's before prices plum­met! Call John at 2267 or 2n4 
NEED 2 COLORADO GA'S $$$ CALL ROBAT2516 
NEED 4 COLORADO TIX!I HELP CALL BRIAN AT 1668. 
Need 1 or 2 GA's for Colorado Theresa 2858 
NEEDED ... 2 tickets for Penn State game. Call Shannon • 264-4164 
Need 3 Colorado GA's Paul3597 

........................ ...................... 
I need two (2) GA's for both Miami and Penn State Please call 2442 or 1585 
PERSONALS 
Trying to please All of these people around me Is trying to reach for tf>e moon. 

-Sottc.ll 
MY LONG LOST BROTHER HAS BEEN FOUND. HE WALKED ALL THE WAY BACK FROM VIETNAM, AND HIS ONLY WISH IS TO SEE A NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL GAME. If you have a student ticket or a G.A. for the Miami game please caH Sarah at 1333. Think of ~as an act otpatriotism, sailing your ticket to a vet . 
URBAN PLUNGE PHOTOS NEED£D -IF YOU TOOK PHOTOS ON YOUR PLUNGE, THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE COPIES OF THEMI LEAVE YOUR PICTURES WITH THE FRONT DESK ­THEY WILL BE RETURNED! 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
CARRY OUTT03A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
2Now being without you 
takes a lot of getting used to 
To learn to live with it 
bull don't want to. Being without you 
it's all a big mistake 
Instead of gettin' easier 
it's the hardest thing to take. 
3-Chicago 
let's get autistic! 
HEY, TED, FOR ALL YOU DO, THIS 
BUD'S FOR YOU!? 
N.D. STANDS FOR: A.NO DRINKING B.NO DEMOCRATS C.NO DEBAUC· HERY O.NO DESIRE E.ALL OF THE ABOVE 
CAVANAUGH HALL PrMe~~te: Irish lootball highlights (when we used to win) This week's feature is the year 1973. A national championship, a Sugar Bowl victory and an undefeated year. Watch all of the action this Friday nightat7:30 in the basement. Bring a lriend because it's FREE! 
He was 25 years old. He combed his hair like James Dean. He was very fastidious. People who linered bothered him. She was 15. She took music lessons and could twirl a beton. She wasn't very popular at school. For a while they lived 
together in a treehouse. 
The BADLANDS 
Can somebody throw me a line so I can 
get out of this rut? 
GO,GO RONNIE GO!!! COLLEGE RE· PUBLICAN MEETING THURS. 9/13 RM.204 O'SHAG 6:30 MEMBERS & NON-MEMBERS WELCOME 
2Now being without you 
takes a lot of getting used to 
To learn to live with it 
but I don't want to. Being without you 
it's all a big mistake 
Instead of gettin' easier 
it's the hardest thing to take. 
3-Chicago 
let's get autistic' 
HEY, TED, FOR ALL YOU DO, THIS BUD'S FOR YOU!? 
N.D. STANDS FOR: A.NO DRINKING B.NO DEMOCRATS C.NO DEBAUC· HERY D.NO DESIRE E.All OF THE ABOVE 
CAVANAUGH HALL Pr...,te: Irish football highlights (when we used to win) This week'sleature Is the year 1973. A national championship, a Sugar Bowl victory and an undefeated year. Watch all of the action this Friday night at 7:30 in the basement. Bring a friend because it's FREEl 
He. was 25 years old. He combed his hair like James Dean. He was very lastidious. People who littered bothered him. She was 15. She took music lessons and could twirl a bston. She wasn't very popular at school. For a while they lived 
together in a treehouse. The BADLANDS 
Can somebody throw me a line so I can get out of this rut? 
GO,GO RONNIE GO!!! COLLEGE RE· PUBLICAN MEETING THURS. 9/13 RM.204 O'SHAG 6:30 MEMBERS & NON-MEMBERS WELCOME 
!!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE 
2822 
Marc Ramirez-Madder Than Mad In '84 
2Now being without you takes a lot of getting used to 
To learn to Uve with it 
but I don't want to. Being without you 
it's aU a big mistake 
Instead of gettin' easier 
it's the hardest thing to take. 
3-Chicego 
HEY, TED, FOR ALL YOU DO, THIS BUD'S FOR YOU!? 
......................................... 
N.D. STANDS FOR: A.NO DRINKING B.NO DEMOCRATS C.NO DEBAUC­HERY D.NO DESIRE E.ALL OF THE ABOVE 
CAVANAUGH HALL P-: Irish football highlights (when we used to win) This week's feature is the year 1973. A national championship, a Sugar Bowl victory and an undefeated year. Watch all of the action this Friday night at 7:30 in the basement. Bring a friend because it's FREEl 
He was 25 years old. He combed his hair like James Dean. He was very fastidious. People who linered bothered him. She was 15. She took music lessons and could twirl a be ton. She wasn't very popular et school. For a while they lived 
together in a treehouse. The BADLANDS 
Can somebody throw me a line so I can get out of this rut? 
GO,GO RONNIE GO!!! COLLEGE RE· PUBLICAN MEETING THURS. 9/13 RM.204 O'SHAG 6:30 MEMBERS & NON-MEMBERS WELCOME 
STEVE SPRIGG: YOUR MUSIC SOUNDS GREAT FROM UP ON THE FOURTH FLOOR. 
3Marya, 
1 Get out your walking shoes! Care to walk around the lake? (you know which one.) So many unsuspecting men ... 
2-Szan 
2Doyou know Whal you're hoping for When you look behind you There's no open doors What are you hoping for Do you know? 
AKRON, AKRON, AKRON, Oh. is where, is where I wanna go. 
Will you, will you take me there? any weekend, I don't care. 
If you can, well just call me, 
my name's John, 2-4-8-3. 
THANKS A KAZILLION. 
HEY YOU! Yeah, you, I still need Miami tix and I need them now. Okay, not now, but before the game, and that's all the concessions you're gonna get ouna me. So be a pal and sell me yours. Call John at 2495. 
Purdue bua trip T-ahlrta are still available, and still only $5. To place an or­der, call2489 or 2467. 
I would like to help pay lor your trip to Akron or Clevlllnd anytime this semes· ter. Call John at 2483. 
Hat•ndTII 
Is coming._ 
PARTY AT THE STORKS CLUB,EVERY FRI. AT 3 A.M.,THE STORK:HE DELIVERS 
UlliAnn, 'Tis a short poem to say that you're the one With whom I shall share my feelings and my love And though there are many birds under the sun You are my one and only sweet little dove 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY! 
From NO with love, 
Mike 
........................... ....................... 
FELCHLESS FECKERS: IF YOU WANT TO FELCH AGAIN, BE PREPARED TO PAY! FOUNDATION for the EXTER· MINATION of LEWD, CARNAL HABITS 
Was that Big Mac devotee Bob "Kroc" Vondyhide we saw at Burger King on Friday? And did he eat not one. but two Whoppers??? Ah, so much for brand loyalty ... looks like the Navy has its first epicurean defector! 
································································ 
SENIOR CLASS PARTY! Thursdly, Sept. 13 tp.m.-1 •.m. Mr. D'a C.nnlng Factory 
1516 N. Ironwood (~from McDoneld'l) OJ aDllnclngl Munchle Bar, Drink Specillll s.nlora, Be there Thul'ldlyl 

The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1984-page 9 
picture ofscoring or getting assists,"
Soccer 
Grace explained. "Then before you 
knew it, we had eight people within continuedfrom page 12 the 30-yard line, and then it just got 
too congested." however, limiting their scoring op­The final Irish goal came from that portunities. congested area In front of the Bethel 
"Everybody wanted to get in the goal at 72:05. Junior Chris Telk laid 

APPholO 

The Chicago Cubs and New York Mets, shown in action last weekend, n>main contentionfor the Nattonal League East lead. The Cubs lost to Philadelphia yesterday, but the Mets fell to the Car­dinals, reducing the Cubs' magic number to 11. 

Now that you've registered for your required courses, it's time to choose your electives. 
With Domino's Pizza, choos-• ing your electives isn't easy. · ~. 
Because we've got so many fresh, mouthwatering. toppings. But once 
you make your 1 choice. we'll custom · · make your pizza. And deliver it to your door, FREE. All in 30 minutes. Guaranteed. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ FREE. 
277-2151 
Plaza 23 Center 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
South Bend 
D Pepperoni D Green Peppers D Mushrooms D Onions D Ham D Sausage D Ground Beef D Olives D Double Cheese D Extra Thick Crust D The Vegi™ 
5 items for the price of 4: Onions, Green Peppers. Mushrooms, Olives and Extra Cheese 
D Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions. Green Peppers and Sausage 
D The Price DestroyerrM 
Limited portions of 9 items for the price of 5: 
Pepperoni, Mushrooms. Onions, Green Peppers, Sausage, 
Ground Beef, Olives, Ham, and Extra Cheese 
Ir----------------------~ I 
Free Domino's Mug with
I 
any pizza purchase. 
One coupon per pizza. 
Good while supplies last. 
Fast, Free Delivery™ 
Limited Delivery Area. JTC NA 120/ 2650 

I 
L-•••••••••••••••••••••J © 1984 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
the ball into the penalty area for classmate Dave Miles, who collided with Neal when the keeper came out for the ball. Both players fell, and the 
midfielder Tom Daley arched the ball over Neal from about 30 yards out. Sophomore Bill Gross collected the assist on Daley's goal. 
The Irish began to collapse toward the middle of the field again, ball bounced into the goal before the defense could react. 
Despite the fact that the Irish played sloppily for much of the game, the Pilots were so out· matched that they never w~re in the contest. Notre Dame showered the Bethel goal with 38 shots, while the losers never even tested Irish keeper Dan Coughlin, who was credited with Notre Dame's first shutout of the season. 
Grace said he realizes that the changes in the lineup caused some of the problems for the Irish, but he still was not pleased with the way his team performed. 
The Irish, now 4-0 on the year, will travel to East Lansing, Mich., on Friday afternoon to take on the Mic­higan State Spartans. 

Florida cited in NCAA recruiting investigation 
Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE, Fla. · The Univer­sity of Florida received a 75-page of­ficial letter of inquiry from the NCAA tuesday detailing 107 alleged infractions committed by the school's football program. 
University President Marshall M. Criser said the university will prepare an official response to the aJ. 
legations  "as quickly  as  humanly  
possible."  
Criser  said  he  was  releasing  

copies ofthe NCAA's letter as well as transcripts of interviews with wit· nesses in the probe that started in December 1982. 
Among the charges leveled against Coach Charley Pell's pro­gram was that of illegal scouting of opponents' practices. The school president said he had directed offi­cials to forward letters ofapology to seven schools and added that he had 
volunteered to forfeit Florida vic· 
tories over six of them. 
Pell, saying that he assumed re· sponsibility for "mistakes and errors," made in the program, resigned Aug. 26, but requested to remain with the squad until the end of the 1984 season. 
Criser, who had left the door open to dismiss Pell at any time, would not comment on the coach's status yesterday. 
The university released approxi· mately 1,700 pages ofdocuments In· eluding transcripts of two taped interviews with Mike Brown, a former Florida graduate assistant who confessed to spying on oppo· nents in 1980 and 1981, and Sonny McGraw, one-time Gator recruiting coordinator. 
Both reportedly cooperated with the NCAA, which will not announce sanctions against the Florida pro· gram until after it receives a response from the Southeastern Conference school. 
"Let me strongly express our ' desire that the public understand that in many instances a witness only presents one version of an alleged happening and that the NCAA letter of inquiry arc 'charges,' however serious they may be," Criser said. 
"The university's position will be set out in its response to those charges, and I hope the public will await that response before reaching conclusions concerning the univer­sity, its athletic programs, or its staff." 
Criser said the letters of apology were sent to the University of Cali· fornia at Berkeley, Mississippi, Mis­sissippi State, Louisville, Florida State, Georgia and Auburn. 
He said he offered to forfeit 1980 victories over California, Missis­sippi, Mississippi State, Louisville and Auburn, as well as a 1981 tri· umph over Florida State. 
"Obviously this is a regrettable step, but I am convinced it is the only one permitted by the standards offair play," Criser said. 
"It is small consolation for our sister universities, but an honorable institution could do no less." he said. 
The school president said the existence of illegal scouting had been previously denied by the Florida coaching staff to NCAA In­vestigators and university attorneys. 
He said Brown's Interview was the first information received substan· tiating the spying charges. 
"This is a painful process for us all. It is a true test of our ability to wea­ther a storm of intense emotion and grim reality," Criser added. 
Pell took over the Florida pro· gram in 1979 and has led the Gators to four straight bowl appearances after a 0-10-1 finish his first season. 
The coach's letter of resignation said, "The mistakes and errors I made did not make the difference in the football program. Those mistakes and errors disgust and em· barrass me." 
MEN 
of 
NOTRE DAME 
1985 CALENDAR IS HERE AGAIN WE NEED YOU! 
Please submit pictures ofyourfavorite males to319or007 
FARLEY 
Sept. 12-14 



ricanes held down the top spot until stage ofthe season, although It puts a losing to Michigan last weekend. little more heat on." 
Errors 
continuedjrompage 12 

Being called upon at a crucial stage of the game, Figaro was faced with a Purdue team on the move and eyes focused on him as If he were wearing a scarlet letter "I" for inex· perlenced. 
"There was no doubt that we are Inexperienced at the outside linebacking position," comments defensive coordinator Andy Chris· toff. "But you can never expect In­juries to occur, and when they do, it throws you. Because ofthe inexperi­ence we had In there, we had to simplify our defense. And It wasn't so much as Purdue doing the unex­pected or us playing badly, but it was our lack ofexperience on the field." 
Banks echoes the same observa­tion about the play ofthe Irish. 
"You know, we really did rise to the occasion when we needed to," Banks says. "Purdue simply capl· talized on those times when we made our mistakes. But we never got down on ourselves. We played till the very end. We are all humans, and we make mistakes." 
Head Coach Gerry Faust agrees 
that there were too many mistakes, 
SObering AcMce·; 
cansavea 
Think Before You Drink Before You Drive .•..~/ 
but thinks the problems can be solved, given some time. 
"We've got ten games ahead ofus, " explains Faust. "We've got to regroup, cut down on mistakes, and go from there." 
And mistakes there were on Satur­day. A lack of intensity and concen· tration seemed to permeate the Hoosier Dome throughout the bat· tie. The mistake seemed to be the biggest play ofthe game for the hish. 
For the outside linebackers In par· ticular,the Improvement will need to come in the form of better coverage of the running backs and opponents running short pass routes over the middle · both obvious weaknesses which must be cor· rected. 
But in all fairness, Banks is correct. These are just humans playing the game, and perfection should not be expected. That was all last week, and now that Figaro and Banks will have the opportunity to prepare fully for Michigan State, they should be ready. 
Expect to see a more motivated team on the field .in East Lansing, for the Irish do not wish to maintain their tarnished Image. 

HAPPY HOUR OJ delicious food and brews 
meet your friends for dinner MSU PEP HALLY!l drink specials all night! 
F 14 
ND-MSU on the BIG SCREEN 12'0·?15
s 75~ 14oz drafts/burgers, nachos & dogs! 
OPEN TO EVERYONE!! 9-close THE SOCIAL ALTERNATIVE FREE ADMISSION!! 
SCAVENGER HUNT 
collect all week and bring 'em in Saturday for cash prizes prizes for 1) biggest dorm turnout 2)most Items on list {list to be announced FRIDAY) 
12 p.m. WILLIE NELSON ticket give ~w~y win 3 tickets!! 


Someone is just waiting to meet you ... at SR. BAR 
The Observer Wednesday, September 12, 1984 -page 10 


"Chips" Michiana's Newest Nig.ht Spot
Nebraska replaces 
Wed.. Special LADIES Mixed 2 for 1 
Night NIGHT... Drinks
Miami in top spot 
233·4858 Live Bands ... DJ's ... Dance Floor ... No Cover! 'Located: Take Eddy St. to Mlsh Av... First Stop Light Turn Right 
Associated Press Clemson, now 2-0, moved to No. 2 in this week's ratings, gathering 1 5 UNCOLN, Neb.· University ofNe· first-place votes to 35 for Nebraska. 

montgomery,A~ 
braska Coach Tom Osborne said yes· Michigan jumped from No. 14 last terday he fully expects his week to No. 3 following its 22-14 up­
will conduct 
interviews on this campus 
Cornhuskers, who mo\'ed to the top set of Miami. The Wolverines had 
of the Associated Press college foot· three first-place votes. 
THURSDAY, NOV. 8 &
ball rankings, to weather the storm Texas, which opens its season Sat· 
FRIDAY, NOV. 9.
ofmedia attention that will follow. urday against Auburn, was No.4, fol­
Career
Osborne and the Cornhuskers lowed by Iowa ( 1-0) and Miami 
positions in 
learned last year the unsettling ef­( 2-1) in a fifth-place tie. UCLA ( 1·0) 
vertical 
fect that media attention can have was seventh, with Brigham Young 
transportation 
on a No. !-ranked team. Nebraska ( 2-0 ), Ohio State ( 1-0~ and Boston 
MARKETING/ 
MANAGEMENT
carried the AP's No. 1 ranking College (2·0) rounding out the Top 
will be discussed with degree 
throughout the season ·until the Or­10. 
ange Bowl upset at the hands of No. Iowa and UCLA received two first· 
cand1dates in
2-ranked Miami · and had to place votes, while Texas, Miami and 
BUSINESS
schedule regular weekly news con· BYU received one each. 
ADMINISTRATION.
fercnces for star players and the Following the Huskers' 42-7 
For more 
coach. thrashing of Wyoming in season 
information 
opener last weekend, Osborne ad· 

about 
APTopTwenty 

Montgomery
mitted the No. 1 ranking was some­

The Top Twenty college foolball teams In The As· 
and our future
thing that couldn't be ducked. theses. this season's records and total points. Points "I guess we're pleased people 'soclated Press poll, with first-place votes In paren· 
visit to your based on 20·19-18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
campus,
have that much confidence in us,"
are ltellcized. 

contact your
he said. "But I think there's 15 or 20 

placement
1. Nebraska (35) 1-Q-0 1,150 
teams out there who have a shot at 

office.
1,1002. Clemson (15) 2·0·0 
3. 
Michigan (3} 1-Q-0 948 No. 1. We have a good team, a ma­

4. 
Texas (1) o-o-o 922 ture team and we've got some talent. 


montgomery
1-Q-0 8245. lowa(2) 
824 I guess the only real negative thing 
(tie) Miami, Fla. 2-1-0 

ELEVATORS ESCALATORS 
7. UCLA(2) 1·0·0 800 about being No. 1 is that other teams 
POWER WALKS & RAMPS 8. Brigham Young (1} 2·0·0 749 
are going to give you a tremendous 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
693
9. Ohio State 1·0·0 

EMPLOYER
10. Boston Coilege 2-Q-0 668 effort. People point at you a little 11. Auburn 0·1·0 664 
more when you're No.1." 

12. Penn Stare f·D-0 489 
Montgomery Elevator Company. Moline. lllino1s 61265 
13. Oklahoma State 1-Q-0 456 The Huskers will face Minnesota 
Montgomery Elevator Co.. L1m1ted. Toronto, Ontano M9B3S5
443
14. Southern Methodist o-o-o 
here Saturday. The Golden Gophers 

Offices in pnnc1pal cit1es of North America
15. 
Ol<lahoma Hl·O 409 

16. 
Washington 1-Q-0 352 received the worst drubbing of any 17. Pittsburgh Q-1·0 219 


team, 84-13, from the high-scoring

18. Florida State 1·0·0 196 19. Alabama 0·1·0 192 1983 Cornhuskers. 20. Solt!em CSIIfornla 1-Q-0 97 
Osborne said it was quieter In lin­coln this year when the Cornhuskers "There's a little more distraction were No. 2 In the poll. Still, the Hus­

DON'T MISS
that goes along with it," Osborne ker coach, who has a doctorate in said. "A lot of people want inter­educational psychology, expects his 

OUR
views because of the No. 1 rating, players to continue to handle the not so much because of an interest added burden of the top ranking in 
LITTLE KINGS
in Nebraska." 1984. 
••• and GRILL 
Nebraska had been rated No. 2 in "I think our players are used to the 
NIGHT
the AP's preseason poll, behind turmoil involved In the rating," Os· Auburn. But Auburn lost to Miami in borne said. "I think our players also 
prizes & free drafts 
the Kickoff Classic, and the Hur­realize It doesn't mean much at this 

w 
OJ QUARTER BEER 
quarter beers go GREAT with NACHOS 
12 
dancing 9-close 
LI1TLE KINGS EXTRAVAGANZA 
ThOJ raffle every 20 minutes (hats, mirrors, t-shlrts) so~ 14oz Little Kings drafts 
13 
dancing 
-----~-------~--------------r------~--~ . ' ' ' . ' ' ' . ' ' ~-----------------------------------------~--------~--~----~~~~--~--~--~ 
']I['4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------~-e.d•n•e•s•d-ay_,_s_e_p.te.m
..b.er__1_2_,1•9•8•4---p•a•g•e---11 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 





911 
Psycho Chicken Octavio Gary Larson 
The Far Side 

G;b) 
0 
0 • 



I J"UST LOVE'••• 

The young dog's nightmare: premature mange 


The Daily Crossword 
Campus 
•9 
a.m. · 2:30 p.m. · Book Sale, Dirty and Damaged Books, Paper­backs .75, Hard Cover $1.25, Library Concourse, Sponsored by Notre Dame Press. 

•I 
0 a.m. · 4 p.m. · Race, Dodge Daytona Driving Championship, Red East Parking Lot, South of ACC, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Free. 

•3:30 
p.m.· Computer Minicourse, SPF, Full Screen Editor, Com· puting Center-Math Building, Free. 

•4:20 
p.m. · Physics Colloquium, "A Search for Neutrinoless Double-Beta Decay," by Dr. Frank Avignone, University of South Carolina, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 

•6 
p.m. · Meeting for students interested in helping with Fall Fes· tival, Lobby of LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Student Ac· tivities Board. 

•6:
15 p.m. ·General Meeting, Foreign Studies Information Meeting for Mexico City. Mexico. Library Lounge. 

•6:15 
p.m.· General Meeting, ND Circle K Club, Center for Social Concerns. 

•6:30 
p.m. · General Meeting, Psychology Club, LaFortune Little Theatre. 

•6:30 
p.m. · Organizational Meeting, Circle K · Saint Mary's, 144 Regina Hall. 

•6:30 
p.m. · Workshop, Eucharistic Ministers Workshop, Sacred Heart Church. Sponsored by the Office of University Ministry. 

•7 
p.m.· FUm, "Holiday," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30p.m. ·FUm, "The Man with the Golden Gun," Engi· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by the Student Activities Board, $1.00. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Informational Meeting, Fun and Learn, Center for Social Concerns, Free refreshments. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Lecture, "Christ, the Eucharist and the Church,'' by Father Daniel jenky, First lecture of Catholic Vision Lecture Series, LaFortune little Theatre, Sponsored by The Thomas More Society. 

•8 
p.m.· Concert, Wayne Newton, ACC. 

•9 
p.m. · General Meeting, Notre Dame Student Lobby, Chautau· qua, LaFortune Student Center. 

•9 
p.m. · Meeting, ND-SMC Right to Life, LaFortune little Theatre, All welcome. 


ACROSS  37 Reaganto  64 Seethes  18 Journey for  45 Old Shetland  
1 Fellow 5 Cut  friends 38 Rah In Madrid  65 Sp. painter  pleasure 22 Racket  viol 47 Containing  
10 Packfull  39 Cluster  DOWN  25 Take to the  little fat  
14 Nicety 15 Kind of wind  41 Deign 43 Havoc  1 Gr. letter 2 Senator from  stump  50 Bargain hunter's  
16 Not on tape 17 Senseless 19 "Beware the ­of March" 20 Pavarotti and Domingo 21 Dinner wine 23 Mongrel 24 Top army man: abbr. 25 Bid  44 Rises 46 Annoys 48 Strained 49 Footlike part 50 Attainment 53 Like an egg white 56 Wimbledon champ 57 Eccentric  Colo. 3 Yorkshire river 4 Santa's reindeer 5 Churned 6 Sonof Aphrodite 7 Vehicle for transportation 8 Kind of cheese  26 Public meedng place 27 Improbable 28 Pubgame 29 Malice 30 Kindled over 31 Barbara and Sir Anthony  delight 51 Secondhand 52 Philippine· Borneo sea 53 Mucilage  
29 Hazardous  60 Mark of the  9 Tied again  34 Overly  
enterprise 32 Jungle sound 33 Passe 35 Pung 36 Opp. of dep.  villain 61 Roux Ingredient 62 Days before holidays 63 Vortex  10 Customers 11 Absurd 12 State with authority 13 Tableland  40 Decorative openwork 41 Detonates 42 Cottonwoods 43 Lives  54 Split 55 Belg. river 58 Watson or Kite 59 White House monogram  

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS 
Willie Nelson 
LIVE AT THE ACC 
September 19, 1984 at 7:30p.m. Tickets on sale at the S.A.B. Record Store $1250 & $1350 Reserved Seating 


S~orts 

PatSzanto (in lightjersey) eludes Salamon Qualab in a race for the ball in last Sunday's victory over Louisville. The soccer team upped its record to 4-0 by overwhelming Bethel College yesterday 4-0. Phil Wolf bas details ofthe game in his story below. 
Notre Dame defeats Bethel despite sloppy play, remains unbeaten 
By PHIL WOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 

The Notre Dame soccer team travelled across town yesterday af­ternoon to take on the Bethel Col­lege Pilots on their home field. 
The entire game belonged to the Irish, who came away with a 4-0 vic­tory over ·their out-classed oppo­nents. 
Notre Dame head coach Dennis Grace used the game as an opportu­nity to give some playersgame expe­rience who had not yet played this season. He started several players at positions other than the ones they normally play, and he started many 
Look to improve 
ofhis second-string players. 
The patchwork Irish squad began to dominate play immediately in the game, but it could not finish its of­fensive attacks with goals for most of the opening period. It was not until nearly 20 minutes had elapsed in the game that Notre Dame put some points on the scoreboard. 
Sophomore Tom Bowsher scored off a Mike Carney corner kick at 
25:38 to put the Irish in the lead, 1-0. That score still remained at halftime, and Notre Dame could not score again until almost halfof the second period had gone by. 
The ball rarely crossed the mid­field stripe into Irish territory the entire game, but the Notre Dame team continued to have problems getting the ball in the Pilots' net. One reason for these problems was that the Notre Dame players were bunching up in the center of the field, bringing too many defenders in front of the goal. When Grace pointed this out to his players, they spread out and created several op­portunities for themselves. 
Senior captain Rich Herdegen got the ball from junior Bill Beasley on a breakaway and shot it past Bethel goalkeeper Rick Neal at 63:12. Just over a minute later, junior 
see SOCCER page 9 

Inexperience hurts Banks, Figaro 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Assignment errors, mental lapses and simple mistakes -three vices in the game ofcollege football. 
Because the Irish committed those same blunders in Saturday's performance against Purdue, the Notre Dame football team could not be described as being too virtuous. 
The Irish performance against the Boilers has opened up the door to all kinds of negative comments. It was no holds barred as alumni, students, and press alike let their feelings be known. Unfortunately, a portion of this criticism has been fired at the 

TV controversy continues as judge issues injunction 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 

The college football television battle heated up even more when Federal Judge Richard Gadbois issued a preliminary injunction al­lowing the Sept. 22 Nebraska-UCLA and Nov. 24 Notre Dame­Southern Cal football games to be televised by network television. 
UCLA and Southern Cal, as well as the Big Ten and Pacific-! 0 conferences. had sued Notre Dame, Nebraska, ABC, ESPN and the College Football Association because of an agreement between the CFA (of which Notre Dame and Nebraska are members) and ABC that requires CFA schools to be televised nationally only on ABC and ESPN. These two games were specifically mentioned because they were "crossover" games between members of the CFA and its rival coalition·of the Big Ten and Pac-1 0. 
The plaintiffs had argued that UCLA and Southern Cal should be able to decide whether the game was televised or not because they were the home teams. They claimed that the CFA-ABC contract, which did not allow Notre Dame or Nebraska to be televised on the other major network -CBS -hurt their schools financially because they were being denied television appearance money. 
"CBS intends to televise both games," said Peter Lund, the execu­tive vice president ofthe network to USA Today. "They were on our schedule because they were home games for the Pac-1 0 teams. Now we will fall back to determining the financial arrangement." 
ABC has not determined ifit will bid for the games. 
play ofthe two outside linebackers ­Robert Banks and Cedric Figaro. 
Forced into a pressure situation two weeks prior to the Purdue encounter, Banks was called upon to fill the void left by the injured Mike Larkin. 
A sophomore letterwinner, Banks spent the majority of 1983 on speciality teams and didn't see major action until last season's finale against Air Force, when he filled for the injured Mike .Kovaleski. Banks was listed as a second-string player heading into the fall, until Mike Larkin went down with torn liga­ments. 
Banks was expected to just flow into the starting assignment, even though he had only just over a week to prepare. With such pressure on him, Banks still managed to wrestle down nine Boilermakers on Satur­day. But he is the first to admit that 
there were  mistakes made on  the  
field.  
"Nothing  happened  which  we  

weren't prepared for," offers Banks. "But we made mistakes, there were mental lapses on everyone's part." 
Also thrown into a baptism of fire was freshmen Cedric Figaro. With no college game experience behind him, Figaro was called up from the ranks after senior tri-captain Mike Golic left the game with a shoulder injury. Figaro was also behind junior Rick DiBernardo, who injured his wrist in the preseason, and was also unavailable. 
see ERRORS page 10 

Wednesday, September 12, 1984 -page 12 
Losing to Purdue: It's wrong 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! It's wrong. It's wrong when a team as talented as Notre Dame is unable to win against teams such as Purdue. Allen Pinkett said it best after the game when he said the Irish beat themselves. Yes, Purdue looked good, but most ofthat is because the Irish were so bad. Steve Beuerlein said afterward he still feels Notre Dame is a better football team than Purdue, and he's probably right. However, Notre Dame wasn't the better team on Saturday and it's wrong. Something is definitely wrong. 
It's wrong when your secondary is abused the wayJim Everett and his receivers did it on Saturday. Everett had a field day and he cer­tainly can not be considered one of the game's premier signal­callers, especially when you consider he almost didn't start on Saturday. Some people point to inexperience in the deep secondary, but each of the starters has at least one varsity letter at his position. So, there's really no excuse. 
It's wrong when the same type ofcritical mistakes plague the Irish week after week. A penalty for too many men on the field resulted in a Purdue touchdown rather than a field goal. An ineligible receiver penalty stalled one Irish drive, while a fumble on the Purdue three­yard line halted another chance. The frustrating part is this is the same thing that has troubled Notre Dame for the last few years. Good teams do not make those mistakes, and the Irish were not a good team on Saturday. 
It's wrong when a critical moment results in confusion. On Steve Beuerlein's last interception, the sophomore quarterback was forced to call his own play in the huddle. Apparently Faust and offen­sive coordinator Ron Hudson did not give Beuerlein a play to call when he went onto the field following the Purdue punt, so it was up to Beuerlein to make a decision. To borrow a line from Strother Martin in the movie "Cool Hand Luke": "What we have here is a failure to communicate." It was funny in the movie. It's not funny now. 
It's wrong, however, to simply blame Beuerlein for the loss, or any other individual for that matter. Sure, certain plays stand out in the football game, and the last interception is one that everyone remem­bers. However, let's also remember that Beuerlein completed 13 out of 20 passes for over 200 yards. It would be unfair to make him wear the goat's horns for this game. 
It's wrong because the most important factor to be considered, and one admitted by Faust himself, may be a lack of preparation by the Irish for what Purdue did on the field. The Irish weren't prepared for some of the motion in the Purdue offense, or the stunting on the Purdue defense. True, it's the first game ofthe season, which makes it tough to scout the opposition, but the Irish also had nine months to get ready for Purdue. All good scouts remember the motto, "Be prepared." The Irish weren't prepared, and they paid for it. 
It's wrong to give up hope, but after talking to some people, Satur­day's game ran their patience to the limit. True, there's I 0 games left, which is plenty of time to turn things around, but time is a precious commodity right now to this class ofseniors. They have heard three years ofpromises, but they are still waiting for those promises to be delivered. They want some wins, and they want them now. 
It's wrong when the second game of the season becomes a must game for the Irish, but t~at's the predicament the Irish find them­selves in after the loss to Purdue. Yes, Notre Dame can probably lose as many as three games and still go to a major bowl, but now they only have two losses left. Look at the teams coming up on the schedule: Michigan State, Missouri, Miami, Air Force, LSU, and Penn State. Those are six very tough teams, and the Irish have to beat four of them to go to a major bowl. 
It's wrong ifyou expect the Spartans won't be fired up this week. Last year, after the Michigan State game, a lot ofpeople dismissed the Spartan upset as a fluke. The Spartans return 42 lettermen from that team who would like nothing better than to kick the Irish while they're down. They have plenty oftalent, too, including quarterback Dave Yarema and fullback Carl Butler .. Yarema threw for three touchdowns in last year's win, while Butler ran 18 times for 98 yard" and another score. 
It's wrong when people have to consider Notre Dame an under­dog, but many people put the Irish in that position this week. After last week's game, you can't really blame them. Add to the poor Irish performance the doubtful status of Larry Williams (sprained ankle) and Mike Golic (shoulder injury), and it's no wonder Irish eyes aren't smiling. 
It's wrong...and the sad part is...it's true. 
Pick ofthe Week ...It would also be wrong not to mention that coach Joe Piane and his Notre Dame cross country team will begin the 1984 campaign this Friday when the Irish take on Ohio State and Northwestern on the Burke Memorial Golf Course at 4 p.m. 
This marks the 1Oth season as head coach of the Irish for the diminutive Italian cross country mentor, and he is looking to co­captainsJim Tyler and Bill Courtney to set the pace. It should be an outstanding opener to the season for the Irish harriers, and you'll want to be there. 







