Reagan tax plan, page 4 


VOl. XIX, NO. S3 the indcpcmll"nt ~tudcnt IH"\\ .,paper .,lT\ ing notn dame and .,aint man·., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1984 

Women accepted into journalism according to WNDU-TV anchor 
By THERESA GUARINO ning workers in the television field down to the second is extremely im­Asststatll Nell'S Editor often receive. "Most successful portant, explaining if a story goes people have paid their dues. This is a over the time limit even by a few 
Women journalists in 1984 arc job you can't drift into. seconds, the producer often must taken more seriously and definitely "'lbe hours are long and the com­decide what to cut, so the news can know what they are doing, accor· petition intense (in the beginning). end on time. 
din)l, to WNDll-'IV anchor Maureen You really start on the ground floor Mcfadden. and work your way up." Other jobs behind the scenes in· 
McFadden, a Saint Mary's Mcfadden, who is originally from elude the director, who cues the waduate, said women in television South Bend, became a reporter at anchors, cameramen and tech­art· not "window dressing·· the station. Three months later she nicians, and the assignment editor, anymore, and the stigma against was promoted to weekend anchor. who decides which reporters and them in the business in fading. She now works the 6 p.m. and I 0 photographers will cover what 
Mcl'adden spoke to a crowd of p.m. news, and considers her hours stories. about 70 in the parlor of Holy Cross ideal. "I go in at three and leave at Mcfadden encouraged communi­hall last night at the invitation of the midnight Monday through Friday, cations majors hoping for jobs in the Saint Mary's Communication Club. which I don't mind at all, since I'm a television field. "There are job op­She began by dispelling "the myth night person." portunities out there, and with a that the job is glamorous. lbe hard Mcfadden described her duties strong liberal arts degree you'II be work is something a lot of people by saying, "Ninety percent of what I better off." don't realize." do is off-camera research: reading "I don't believe in TV and radio 
During hn senior year at Saint and writing." degrees," she said. "You only gain Mary's, Mcfadden took Telecom· Despite what many think, Mcfad­technical knowledge, and lack the munications, a course where stu­den and her co-anchors write almost writing and reading experience you dents work in the studios of WNOU. all news stories they report, splitting need." She met employees at the station, the newscast down the middle. She and "got her foot in the door." explained some behind the scene However, no matter what experi­
After graduation, Mcfadden jobs, and said, "most people never ence a student may have, you "can worked without pay at WNDlJ, pro· think of the mechanics, but it takes never be totally prepared. You'll al­
gramming computers for five 2'; people to put on a newscast." ways be surprised, and the first job is morllhs. She began working full time She described the job ofproducer really baptism by fire." in November of 1979, on the mor­as "basically putting the newscast to· 
Row' row' row your bike
ning drive radio shift. Mcfadden said gether." Mcfadden sees journalism as Th< Ol>ll<mr!VIc(;uarlno 
although she didn't particularly like "'lbe producer looks at all the in­"invigorating, and always changing." getting up at 2 a.m., the job "was ex­formation from our 'beat calls' and She said television news "gives Senior Brian Hagan rows an ergometer during his shift in the perien<.·e, and involved writing a decides what to use, how long the people the basics. The average story 50-hour Ergothon yesterday at the Fieldhouse Mall. The fund· 
lot." story will be, and how it will be han­is 20-25 seconds long. For follow­
raiser is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Rowing Club to buy 
ups, there's the newspaper and
McFadden emphasized the long dled." equipment and defray tratJel costs ofthe club. hours and the tedious jobs begin-Mcfadden said timing each story radio." 

Saint Mary's election drive made a difference Tuesday 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST from their voting precincts at home. Many pre-election awareness ofthe most effective things we did to Turgi said. "People already have a Neu-sStaff "It appears that the registration opportunities were available to stu­increase awareness in the election," good grasp of the Church's position drive made a significant difference dents on campus, including an in­Turgi said. on abortion," she said. 
Vott·r registration drives and in the election at Saint Mary's," she formational issue board, whose In addition to explaining the Several other pre-election pro­other pre-election programs on the said. purpose was to give students infor­Church's position, the issue board grams were sponsored by SMC Saint Mary's campus produced Sister Marianna Heppen, clerk at mation about the Church's position also displayed statements from the Peacemakers. In early October, poli­rt·sults at the polling booth Tuesday, the voting booth location on the on major campaign issues. Republican and Democratic plat­tical debates and informational pro· said Sister Mary Turgi, coordinator SMC campus, said that Tuesday's The issues of nuclear disarma­forms corresponding to the five grams were televised on large of volunteer services at SMC. voter turnout was ·"exceptional, ap­ment, minority and women's rights, major issues addressed. A special . screens campus-wide, followed by 
"Based on my own conversations pearing to be the largest student rep­education, Central America, and column displayed opinions from ex­informal faculty/student discus­with students, many took the elec­resentation I can remember." human needs such as the need to perts in various areas ofinterest. sions. tions very seriously," Turgi said. She estimated 75 percent of SMC work were addressed on the board. "Abortion was one issue not In addition, the government de­
Ovt·r 400 new voters registered students voted on Tuesday, includ­It was located at different spots on focused upon by the issue board, partment sponsored a mock durinp, the drive, and additional stu­ing approximately equal representa· campus during the campaign. primarily because we felt that it had dents applied for absentee ballots tion from all four classes. "I felt that the issue board was one already been adequately covered," see VOTERS, page 5 
Leading banks lower prime rate below 12 percent, first since April 
Associated Press The prime rate is the base upon Reserve apparently is loosening its which banks compute interest grip on the money supply and pro­
NEW YORK · Several major banks charges on short-term loans. The viding more reserves to the banking cut their prime lending rates by a most creditworthy customers often system, some analysts have said. quarter-point to 11.75 percent Wed­borrow at below the prime rate, The central bank is seen taking nesday, the first time the prime rate while small businesses often are that stance because it does not want has been below 12 percent since charged more than the prime. the economic slowdown to develop early April. While not directly affecting the into a recession. 
Citibank, the nation's second larg­cost of most consumer loans, the The pressure on the Fed to loosen est commercial bank, initiated the widely followed rate is an indicator its credit grip intensified last week latest reduction. It was quickly fol­of the direction of lending charges when the bank reported that the lowed by Chase Manhattan, the third generally, including mortgage rates. basic U.S. money supply, called Ml, largest bank, and seventh-ranked contracted by a sizable S2.5 billion First National Bank ofChicago. The prime rate has been dropping in the seven-day period ending Oct. 
Some regional banks, including in response to recent declines in 22. First Union Corp. in Charlotte, N.C., money-market interest rates, which That placed money growth at the also matched the reduction. determine how much the banks lower end of the Fed's own desired
No dirty laundry? 

The banking industry has cut its must pay to obtain the funds they in targets and spurred suggestions that 



Norm Muller, director oflaundry and dry cleaning at Saint Mi­ prime, or base, lending charge three  turn lend.  the economy's expansion could end  
chael's Laundry, was in LaFortune's New Orleans Room last night  other times in the past six weeks,  Market rates are sliding, in part be­ abruptly unless the Fed tried to in­ 
to  respond to students' complaints.  The problem  was  no  one  and  some  credit analysts  on  Wall  cause the economy's expansion has  crease the availability of money.  
showed up.  The same thing happened when Director of Food  Street see the rate falli11g further by  slowed significantly from earlier this  lbe prime rate hit a record high  
Services Bill Hickey was the speaker at an OBUD Student Forum.  , year's end.  year  and  because  the  Federal  21.5 percent in December 1980.  

----~---~----­
The Observer Friday, November 9, 1984 -page 2 

In Brief 
Austrian Foreign Minister Leopold Gratz said 
yesterday that Czechoslovak border guards shot a man in Austrian territory and he summoned Prague's ambassador to protest "the most serious border incident in years" between the two countries. A 33-year old Czechoslovak was found dead Monday on the Austrian side of the border, about 55 miles northeast ofPrague. He had been shot in the back and beside the body police found spent shells they said likely came from a Czechoslovak submachine gun. Czechos­lovak members ofa joint border commission maintain that the man crossed into Austria after he had been shot. -AP 
Soviet Defense Minister Dmitri Ustinov did not appear in Moscow Wednesday to review the troops when the Soviet Union paraded its military might in Red Square on the 67th anniver­sary ofthe Bolshevik Revolution. Ustinov, 76, who has not been seen in public since Sept. 27, is suffering from a sore throat, the Cable News Network's Moscow bureau quoted Politburo member Viktor Grishin as saying. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Gabe Kaplan show at the Morris Civic Auditorium has been cancelled. Advance ticket sales will be refunded at the Student Activities Record Store. -Tbe Observer 
Christian singerIsongwriter Don Wharton 
will appear in concert Monday, Nov. 12 at 7:30p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Accompanying himself alternately on piano and guitar, Wharton sings mostly songs he has written and recorded. The con­cert is open to the public and designedfor people ofall ages. There is no admission charge, but a free-will offering will be taken. Records and tapes will also be available at the concert. -Tbe Observer 
Two New York-based artists will visit Notre 
Dame tomorrow through Thursday as part of the Visiting Artist Pro­gram funded by the National Endowment for the Arts, the Alice Tully Endowment for the Fine Arts nd the and the College of Arts and Letters. Both will present slide talks in the AnnenbergAuditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt Sunday afternoon at 2. -The Observer 
The South Bend Public Library, a11 its 
branches, and the Bookmobile will be closed on Sunday, Nov. 11 and Monday, Nov. 12 in observance of Veteran's Day. The main library and all branches will re-open on Tuesday, Nov. 13 at 9 a.m. The computer for the entire library system will be shut down on Tues­day, Nov. 13 and Wednesday, Nov. 14. New equipment will be in­stalled during that time. The library asks all patrons to please be patient during this period. -Tbe Observer 
"Birth ofthe Cosmos"will be the topic ofa lecture by Alan Guth, physicist with the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnol­ogy, the Harvard-Smithsonian Institute of Technology and the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. The lecture will be given tonight at 8 in the Memorial Library auditorium. During a col­loquium at 4:20p.m. today in Room 118 ofNieuwland Science Hall, Guth will explain "The New Inflationary Universe" to Notre Dame physics students and faculty. His research concerns the theories of the universe's origin in a "big bang," its continual expansion since then and the future implications ofthat expansion. -Tbe Observer 
Second City is coming to this city tomorrow night at 8. The Second City touring company will perform in Washington Hall. Tickets are SS and are available at the Student Activities Record Store or at the door. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Mosdy cloudy, breezy and very mild today with a 40 percent chance of showers. High in the upper 60s to low 70s. Tonight, a 60 percent chance of thunder­showers. 



Trivial lawsuit 


like most good games, Trivial Pursuit has simple rules. Roll the die, answer a question, roll the die. 
The one-page instructions end with this admonition: "Because a correct answer always means another roll of the die, a player may meet the game-winning require­ments on the first turn. Ifthis happens, any player who has not yet had a turn is permitted a chance to duplicate the feat." 
No doubt about it, these boys were thinking ofevery­thing. 
Well, everything except the questions. 
That's the complaint of Fred Worth, a 41-year-old trivia expert who is suing the makers of Trivial Pursuit for copyright infringements on his two trivia en­cyclopedias. Worth's $300 million suit claims that the game's Canadian inventors copied questions and answers from Worth's books, including 32 percent of the questions in the "Genus" edition of Trivial Pursuit. Worth further states that 1 0 percent of the questions and answers in the "Baby 
C'mon budd'i! You're
Boomer" edition and 22 per­

cent in the "Silver Screen" and Saint Mary's students edition were also copied, have certainly found that some word for word. 
trivia mixes quite well with 
In a telephone interview beer. last night, Worth said his "I've worked more than suit, filed three weeks ago, is I 0 years pushing trivia. 
aimed at the illegal compila­

(He's read 2,500 books and tion of information from the 
watched hundreds of two volumes of his book, movies.) But it took this Tbe Complete Unabridged game for it to hit," said 
Super Trivia Encyclopedia. 
Worth, a former air-traffic 
"You can't copyright a controller who lost his job fact," he said. "Everyone in the 1981 strike. "I'm knows that. But there is end­saying that I worked I 0 less amount of information 
years for their glory and fin­in the universe tl1ey could 
ancial gain. I've gotten no have used. It so happens that 
recognition and no pay." 32 percent of their informa­Haney and Abbot, two 
tion can be found in my book." 

The game's creators, Chris Haney, Ed Werner and Scott Abbott, deny the allegation, although they and the game's New York manufacturer, Selchow & Righter have not filed a legal response in Los Angeles U.S. Dis­trict Court. Lawsuits only give one side of a case. 
Worth said he noticed duplicated questions while working on another book, Questions, for Warner Books. "I was told not to look at other games on the market (while writing the book)," he said. "When I turned in my manuscript, I decided to look at the other games, and the first one I picked up was Trivial Pursuit. 
"I said, 'Boy, this stuff sure looks familiar." 
Worth, who now writes for the ABC television game show "Trivia Trap," said he spent eight months documenting copied questions and information. 
One example he cited was a question on the colors of the five Olympic rings, which he listed in his book in a random, non-alphabetical order. A question in Trivial 
Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-Chief 
tnside F.rid 

Pursuit lists the colors in the same order, he said. "What 
are the odds that the colors be in this order?" Worth 
said. 

He explained that his books deliberately contain 
some incorrect information as a precaution against 
plagiarism. Some ofthat information, he said, appears in 
the "Genus" edition of Trivial Pursuit, although he 
would not say where. 

The game itself, Worth said, is "great," agreeing with 
thousands of Americans and Canadians who have pur­
chased the game for about 
the. hisforlf major!! 

$35 each. And Notre Dame 

former journalists, have said they invented the game on a rainy day in Montreal in I979 when they got tired of playing Scrabble. Haney's brother and Werner also helped write the questions, they have said. 

Correction 
Because of a production error, the cartoon in Wed­nesday's Inside column was incorrect. The Notre Dame Faculty Course Evaluations are student government based and have nothing to do with Teacher/Course Evaluations which students complete at the end of the semester. 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 





rf4\:':~;:«o:;::; 
•~ Show~~-;:!'Jo"iU::~:~:,:toif lD I. 
:::: 180(; 1 State Road 23  ::::  
t Near Ironwood  ARMIDA KOSEK} 
t South Bend, Indiana 46637  (219) 277-2870}  

~::::::~=~~:::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::;.;.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~ 
Summer Job Applications Available 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association~ in cooperation with the Career and Placement Services Office~ will again sponsorthe Summer.Job Placement Program 
in 1985 

IF YOV AREINTERESTED INAPPLYINGFOR SVMMER .JOBS INAN Alumni Club city~ obtain an qpplicationfrom the Alumni Office~ 201 Admin. Bldg.
' 

APPLICATIONS MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED BYNOVEMBER 30. 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday and on home footbaU Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Production Consultant ........Steve Foster Design Editor ......................... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ............ Matt Gracianette Typesetters ...................... Blll Highducheck 
Dave Grote News Editor ......................... Keith Harrison Copy Editor ................................. Frank Upo Sports Copy Edltor .....................Jeff Blumb VIewpoint Copy Editor ......... Paul Cimino VIewpoint Layout................John MenneU Features Copy Editor ............... Cat Francis Features Layout............................ Phil Wolf ND Day Editor........................ Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor ........................Shirley Ore Ad Design .........................Suzanne LaCroix 
Anna Marie Furleigh Typist........................................ Kim Tyschen Pbotograpber .........................Vito Guarino 

-----------~-------------~ ~-~---­

-------~-----~-­
The Observer Friday, November 9, 1984-page 3 
ND engineer studies dirt as building tool 


ND research team transplants mice bone marrow in rats 
Speclal to the Observer 
Rarely do we think of soil as a building material, much less as an engineer's research tool. But a Notre Dame engineer is using the Earth's surface to study two seemingly unr­elated topics: new ways of con­structing highway bridges and the durability of buried military com­mand stations in the event of a nu­clear explosion. 

t 
Michael Katona, professor of civil engineering and specialist in soil­structure analysis, is developing ana­lytical soil models to study both areas with funds from a National Sci­ence Foundation Presidential Young Investigator Award. The award pro­vides $100,000 annually for five years through matching funds from the NSF, private industry and the University. 
Katona has conducted much of
~;_•­
the research behind the use and de­velopment of long-span culverts as
The ObKrvcr/ChaJtanya Panchal 
alternatives or replacements to 
Rats such as this one in Galvin Life Science Cen­Lobund Laboratory atNotre Dame. The rats under­
traditional deck bridges constructed 
ter's genn-free environment have successfully going the operation have bada survival rate ofl00 
of reinforced concrete or steel. In­
received bone marrow transplants from mice in percent. Story below. 
troduced about 1 5 years ago, long-
Special to The Observer 
While doctors In Lorna Linda, Calif., have had success in the cross­species heart transplant of Baby Fae, researchers at Notre Dame have suc­cessfully crossed species In animal bone marrow transplants. 
The Notre Dame research team has achieved a I00 percent survival rate In a small group of laboratory rats that received bone marrow from mice. At the age of 300 days, the rats arc producing mouse blood with no signs ofgraft vs. host disease, the rejection of foreign tissue to whkh many transplant patients suc­cumb. 
"We have the cells of two species coexisting in a single animal," said Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the l.obund Laboratory, who is conduct­ing the bone marrow research with 
colleagues Phyllis Luckert and 
Andrea Wade. 
The animals used for the bone marrow transplants have been raised and maintained In germfree environments; the current success rate would be impossible with con­ventional animals. "But the point is," Pollard said, "that under optimum conditons, the interspecies transplantation of certain tissues is possible. lbis a unique application ofgermfree technology." 
He explained that the rejection phenomenon has been eliminated by first using lethal doses of radia­tion ( 1,000 roentgens) to destroy the rats' own immune systems. After inoculation with bone marrow cells from the mice, the rats no longer have the capacity to reject the new bone marrrow because their original immunity has been replaced with that ofthe donor mice. Current analytical data, Pollard added, indi­cates that the rats are producing mouse blood with normal levels of circulating red and white blood cells. 
Although the rats' current life spans are the longest ever achieved under these conditions, Pollard said examinations are being conducted to determine whether the rats have the ability to resist disease. Injec­tions of antigens will be used to de­termine whether the rats produce antibodies, and grafts will determine whether the rats accept new skin from both their own species and from mice. 
"We want to determine whether 

Challenging opportunities are offered in the following areas of business management: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Contract Administration 

• 
Retail Merchandising 

• 
Food Service 

• 
Inventory Analysis and Purchasing 

• 
Transportation and Distribution 

• 
Fuel Planning and Analysis 

• 
Computer Systems 

• 
Operations Analysis 


Visit with representatives of the U.S. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in accounting, economics, business administra­tion, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career. 
Presentation:  November 12  
O'Shaughnessy Hall  
Room 104  
7:00p.m.  
Interviews:  November 13  
Memorial Library  

the mouse bone marrow will produce anti-rat characteristics," Pollard said. 
The team's most recent success is the result ofresearch that originated in 1971 when bone marrow was suc­cessfully transplanted from one ge­netic strain of mice to another. The early transplants also proved the im­portance of germfree technology. The germfree strains of mice not only survived, but also experienced actual cures of leukemia and Hud­kins's disease. Conventional mice 
survived short periods, but eventu­ally died ofgraft vs. host disease. 
Six years ago, Pollard's research team performed its first bone mar­row transplants from mice to rats. Initially, the rats survived about 38 days. With improved techniques, Pollard said, the life spans increased beyond 100 days, a critical period following a bone marrow transplant. "The life span of red blood cells is about I00 days, if the animals don't 

LOGAN CENTER 
ND/SMC Council for the Retarded welcomes new volunteers for: Tonight's Dance 7:30-10 p.m. Tomorrow's Zoo Trip depart Logan at 9 a.m. 
•------~ COUPON ------1

II  GRAND OPENING WEEK  II  
I  SHARONE'S  I  
I  BOUTIQUE  I  
II  TOWN & COUNTRY  II  
I  SHOPPING CENTER  I  
I  MISHAWAKA, IN.  I  
II  LADIES' DESIGNER  II  
I  CLOTHING • LEATHER • JEWELRY  I  
I  I  
II  25"' OFF WITH THIS COUPON  II  
I  TO ALL NO & SMC STUDENTS OFFER GOOD THRU DEC. 15, 1984  I  





L-----· COUPON ·-----J 
span culvert bridges combine large corrugated steel plates with soil as a structural component. 
"The interaction of soil and steel working together provides the remarkable structural strength of the soil-steel bridge. It is a perfect example of a synergistic system be­cause neither the soil nor the steel alone can·come close to carrying the loads of the combined system," Katona said. 
While many of the existing cul­vert systems are constructed with sections of pipes bolted tightly to­gether, Katona is currently analyzing the use ofslotted joints, a recent in­novation which reduces the stress In deeply buried pipes having large diameters. 
The slotted joints allow the pipe's perimeter to contract a controlled amount as it Is buried. As a result, the soli compresses around the pipe and relieves much of the stress. In many cases, the slotted joint design can prevent the pipes from collapsing. 
produce new red blood cells by that 
time, they will die ofanemia... 

In spite of the current success with his research, Pollard said it is still too soon to determine specific practical applications, or how the results might relate to the the transplantation of solid organs such as hearts. "The fact that it can be done is a significant accomplish­ment," he explained. 
In the case of Baby Fae, Pollard said the infant's immune system is being suppressed with cyclosporine, an anti-rejection drug that could eventually cause kidney damage. "But what will be the response when they remove the cyclosporlne? Rejection? They have not eliminated the capacity of her body to reject the heart." 
"Sometimes the very young can be given a foreign antigen to which they will develop a tolerance. I cer­tainly hope this occurs with this in­fant," added Pollard. 

The Observer Friday, November 9, 1984 -page 4 

THE "FIGHTING IRISH'S" 
Newsw·eek reports White House secretl)r planning to increase taxes 
Assoclated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­ministration has a secret plan to raise taxes known as the November Project, but President 'Reagan hasn't seen it yet, Newsweek magazine re­ported Wednesday. 
In a special postelection edition of the magazine, Newsweek reported that the November Project is a tax simplification plan co-authored by Budget Director David Stockman 
De Lor~ean trys to pay off expenses 
Assoclated Press 
LOS ANGELES -}oh111 De Lorean 

asked in an ad published Wednesday 
for donations of$5 to $100 to defray 
legal fees incurred during his suc­
cessful two-year fit~t against 
cocaine-trafficking charges. 
"Without one single judgment against him, John De Lorean has turned into a modern day Job," says the full-page advertisement in the 
LosAngeles Herald Examiner. 
"His family is gone, his friends are gone, his assets are goo(·, his pride is gone; nothing remains but his un­dying faith," says the ad, headlined "It's A Horror Story!" 
De Lorean establisht:d the John 

De Lorean Defense Fundi, Inc., which 
is collecting donations through a 
post office box, according to Suzi 
Cozad of Cozad-Bens,kin & As­
sociates in Encino, a public relations 
and advertising firm th2.t represents 
the former automaker. 
The defense fund was approved as 

a non-profit o~nization in the past 
~~------­


Other Speciality Team, 
THE SHERATON GRANDE HOTEL BUTLERS. 
FOR "THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE" ... let America's distinctive butlered hotel make your visit to los Angeles more than that all too familiar game weekend "Road Trip". We have a butler on every floor to pamper your every whim and loads of complimentary services like free health club facil­ities. turndown service. and morning coffee with a newspaper. And if that is not enough. we're a direct dive play into the Coliseum (our location is 
less than 10 minutes from the stadium). 

and assistant to the president Rich­ard Darman. 
Newsweek said that the plan "would be packaged as 'revenue­neutral' but almost surely would simplify taxes upward." 
The plan, Newsweek said in a news release describing the maga­zine article, "is to be submitted to Reagan within two weeks of his re­election." 
The November Project, the article said, was in existence shortly after 
month by California Secretary of State March Pong Eu, Cozad said. 
"John De Lorean paid for the ad," she said, adding that she did not know what it cost. "We were given the non-profit rate." 
De Lorean was not in Los Angeles and could not be contacted for com­ment Wednesday, said Karen Homer, secretary for Howard Weitzman, one of the attorneys who helped De Lorean win acquittal on the drug charges. 
It has been reported that De Lorean owed Weitzman and co­defense attorney Donald Re about n million, but Homer refused to comment on the amount. 
Weitzman and Re were not in­volved with the ad, Homer said. 
"We don't know anything about it and we don't want to know anything about it," she said. "Howard's not even talking to anybody about it." 
De Lorean, 59, who was acquitted Aug. 16 ofcharges that he conspired to traffic in millions ofdollars' worth ofcocaine, faces a grand jury investi-
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL: 800-325-3535 and ask for "The Time of Your Life" Weekend Package. 

333 SOUTH FIGUEROA STREET LOS ANGELES, CA 90071 213/617-1133 
the Democratic National Conven­tion in San Francisco, where Reagan challenger Walter Mondale said that Reagan had a secret plan to raise taxes. 
"There was a secret plan, as it hap­pened, although Reagan had not then accepted it or even seen it," the article said. "It was called the No­vember Project, and it reposed in a set of ring binders in Darman's of­fice, awaiting the president's inspec­tion within a fortnight" of his re-election." 
gation into his handlingofDe Lorean 
Motor Co. finances. 
He also faces a bankruptcy case in Detroit in which creditors have claimed that more than $1 7 million was diverted from the company through banks in Europe and New York. 
Cristina Ferrare, 34, De Lorean's 
wife who is a former model and a co­
host of the 1V show "A.M. Los An­
geles," stayed by De Lorean's side 
throughout his Los Angeles trial on 
the drug charges. 
However, the couple separated a 
month after the acquittal. They have 
filed separately for divorce. 
The advertisement claims the government is out to destroy De · Lorean and seeks donations to cover 
his legal fees. 
"De Lorean has been unable to work or to provide income to his family for the past two years and his once considerable resources have been confiscated and withheld from him pending the outcome of all litigation," the ad says. 
• Per nigh!. per person. douhle occupancy. plus tax and hellman's h'fatuities. With the Sheraton Family Plan. up to 2 children age 17 & under stay free in same room with adults in existing hedding. Rate avai1ah1e through Dec.]1. 19!14. Advance reservations required. Suhject to limited avail­anility. Ask for the "Time of Your Life Package:· Not applicah1e to h'fOUps or conventions. 
SObering Advice} can save a~~~~ 1 
Think Before You Drink ~~ Before YOU Drive · ­
4 


Wanted 

The best part-timeS in town. Flexible hours. Stop in this week and talk to Mark, Dave or Dennis. 
4:30p.m. -1:00 a.m. 
1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend. IN 
delivery 

persons II. 

"TIME OF YOUR LIFE" WEEKEND PACKAGE 

..._______________________________________
~ ---~--­


The Observer Friday, November 9, 1984-page 5 

Varooooom! The space shuttle Discovery lifts off from the Kennedy Space Center ear~y yesterday morning with a crew offive. The crew includes the 
Students stage strike for teachers' rights 
Associated Press 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Several hundred students in the Fort Wayne Community Schools boycotted classes this week to protest an im­passe in their teachers' contract talks. 
"We're here for the teachers, to help them out," said Vincent johnson, a senior at Snider High School. 
lbe students participated in sit­ins Wednesday at Snider, South Side and Wayne high schools. 
A spokesman said they were pro­testing the stalled negotiations and 
also a decision by some teachers not 
to perform voluntary extracur­
ricular duties until the dispute is ­
settled. 
Some 600 to 700 ofSnider's 2, I00 students participated at the begin­ning of the Snider gym sit-in, around 8:30a.m. 
Students were told by Principal Jerry Petrie that they could stay in the gym until the second class per­iod. The number in the gym had dwindled by 9:30 a.m., when Petrie asked students to either go to class or go home. 
Students who left school will be disciplined under the school's regu­lar polky for truants, said Russ Isaacs, an assistant to the principal. 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
e Responsible for story ideas 
e Observer experience necessary 
e Salaried position 

Submit application and personal statement to Anne Monastyrski by 5 p.m. Nov. 14. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
that \\rill knock you out ofyour seat! 
· · ·Second City' i5 brilli<mt.· · 
-T1."1E ."1.-\CAZI:'iE 

'Subtly & Superbly hmnv'" 
-:-~n.-n 1&..>1\ 1,1 1"1 




Space shuttle takes off for heavens_ 


shuttle's hold.

The rip-fL)aring comedy show 
The satellites, costing J35 million 
Associated Press birthday candle ofhis life." The others in Hauck's crew are 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Space pilot David Walker and mission shuttle Discovery soared into orbit specialists Anna Fisher andjoe Allen. yesterday and set offin hot pursuit of Fisher, a physician, is the fourth two wayward satellites, beginning a American woman and first mother 
I.6 million mile chase to snare the named to a space flight. She and her fast-moving targets and bring them husband, Bill, also an astronaut­home for salvage. physician, have a I4-month-old 
"You sent us off in a fine vehicle," daughter, Kristin. said commander Rick Hauck at the The money-tnaking work of the end of the first day in space. "Got a eight-day flight begins this afternoon good start," he said. with the launch of a communica­
After a 23 hour delay because of tions satellite for Telesat, a firm fierce winds aloft, the shuttle and its owned jointly by the Canadian gov­four-man, one-woman crew, lifted ernment and private industry. A 
off from the Kennedy Space Center second commercial satellite, owned only 70 milliseconds late. by Hughes Communications 
"That was a tremendous ascent, Services for lease to the U.S. Navy, we really enjoyed it," astronaut Dale will be released tomorrow. Gardne~; told Mission Control. That will clear Discovery's cargo Gardner turned 36 yesterday, and bay for the bold attempts next Mon­Hauck had promised "the biggest day and Wednesday by two free­
flying astronauts, wearing jet backpacks, to skewer the satellites and maneuver them gently into the 
each when new, will be refurbished and resold at a discount by insur­ance companies that are paying S I 0. 5 million for the retrieval. Of that amount, $5.5 million goes to NASA. 
The space agency, which doesn't expect to break even until flights in I988, spends about $I25 million 
COMING TO 

~ 
NOTRE DAME 
Nov. 10, 8:00pm 
Washington Hall 
Tickets Available at SAB Record Store $5 
also available at door 

per mission. Telesat is paying S I 0 million for its launch and Hughes $I 7 million. 
'!be 3M company recently signed a multimillion-dollar corttract with NASA to conduct experiments on 72 shuttle missions over. the next de­cade and to develop an industrial chemical research laboratory aboard the space station. The labora­tory is planned for the early 1990s. 
Discovery carries the first ofthose tests, crystal-growing experiments that could lead to a major new indus­try in space. 



Voters 
continuedjrom page 1 
Mondale/Reagan debate, attended 
by over I 50 people. 
The Catholic Social justice lobby 
Organization came to SMC to partic­
ipate in a three hour workshop con­
centrating on faith and religious 
issues. 
"We are basically quite pleased 
with our efforts this year," said 
Turgi. "Our purpose was to raise 
people's consciousness on the elec­
tion, and I believe this was achieved. 
"There is really no reason for someone to be voting uninformed in this election," she said, "because the opportunities for awareness have been present." 

1,
, 

This Weekend Only from Chicago 
Peter Da01es & TheRhyth01 Fla01es 
Recording Artists 
Authentic Chicago Blues 

----~----------------------------­
--------------------------------------------------------------,. 

"ie~P-~O~i~I,_tt~----------------------------------------~F~ri~da~y~,N~ov~e~m~b~e~r~9,~1~9~8-4__p~a~g~e-6 

America is moving towards its goal at own pace 
We know who won and, by how much. But should have opened himself more to press yea-saying was as pronounced among all the values, I was happy to see America moving what won? You don't need the final election conferences and debates. But ifhe had fought classes and age groups. It was so pronounced away from its past cult ofyouth and its condes­results to answer that. All you need is to have his battles on the opposition's battleground that both candidates finally embraced it, even cension to age. One can say jokingly that the watched the campaign with your eyes as un­he would have been even dumber than his Mondale in the final debate, declaring his sup­new message of the youngest voters, in their blinkered as you can mak(: them. critics portrayed him. port for most programs of national defense support of Ronald Reagan, is "Never trUst 
I can't escape the feeling that many of the The economy won, through the fact of its strength. anyone under 70." But after the decades ofthe stubborn and persistent improvement in the On a deeper organic level it is harder to say slaying of the American father it's good to see face of all the participatory magic to keep it what won. Both candidates and parties were the father principle emerging again. from being too favorable. But what also won really talking ofhow to deal with America as a I feel the same way about the gender factor. 
Max Lerner was the idea that there is nothing gross and sweeping organism. It was healthy to have a woman candidate for crabbed for workers, professionals, business The Democrats put it in terms of vice president, but also to see her treated as people, career people, in voting their grocery "compassion" and the tradition of caring, to critically as a man with similar abilities and
The Max L~:rner Column 
bills and checkbook accounts. overcome the distance between the aftluent record would be. and the needy. The Republicans relied more The point is that America is moving toward 

They may or not have been voting their on the movement toward local voluntary and its goal at its own pace, in its own ways. The media reporters somehow missed the image hearts as well. But if it was a high thing for community action which John Naisbitt notes breakthrough on gender has been accom­of the America emerging from the elections. Americans to respond to the economic hope as a prime "megatrend" ofour time. plished. Next time the Republicans -perhaps 
The people themselve:> won, although they of the new deal recovery, is there something While I trust we shall never move back to a both parties -will run a ticket with a woman were besieged and beset by all the grand pan­base about the workers who respond to the crass devil-take-the hindmost social dar­on it. But on gender, on age, what won this jandrums of press and TV to think otherwise Reagan recovery? winism I find the upsurge oflocal self-reliance time was a sense of the civilization moving than they meant to think:. There were fancy What won was the reality principle in an­and autonomy a healthy part of our new or-toward an equilibrium. things written about how President Reagan other form -that ofany time since FOR when ganic sense. ran too protected a campaign and how he the shift from national nay-saying to a kind of On another level, that of youth and aging (C) 1984,LOSANGELESTIMESSYND/CATE 
P.O.BoxQ 

r r hispanics, homesexuals, et al)." It is either is foresight and the only thing they have a the ranks of the college students, who he al­, r Voted for Reagan for ominous (concentration camps?) or an odd dearth ofis effective leadership! legedly perpetrated a great social injustice sort ofa Keynesian half-gainer: I thought ifyou upon in order to please the presidents of the 
r the good of aU America 
r threw a check at them, they were supposed to Don't try to portray yourselves as some sort "Fortune 500"? You are so obviously wrong 
DearEditor: go away, not the reverse. Freudian slip? Is of American political martyrs -just because that your views must be retracted. You have r We are tired of Mondale supporters saying Oteri opening the closed door a little to reveal you are Democrats it doesn't follow that you insulted a large segment of the United States r that we are either ignorant or greedy because ( egads!) a supply-sider? Another liberal done have a foot in Heaven over me! Ifthe Republi­population, and you have insulted the entire 
we voted for Reagan. TI1e simple fact of the in by the burgeoning right. can party is for the stereo-typical American student body by saying that, "The domer, like matter is tht we believe Reagan is the best can­Please, Oteri, give the Republicans some citizen, then 58 percent of the United States the Republican, is out for himself and to didate for the whole country. Ifthat makes us credit. Ifyou feel an obligation to criticize, do should be a bunch of Phil Donahues who sur­strengthen his grasp on the various power seg­ignorant, we wonder why 71 percent of the not insult your foe. Not only will it make him render their brains every time they see a flag ments ofsociety." 
college students in this country agreed with less likely to listen to you, but it makes rational wave. Please-credit the American public with Lastly, you state that to be a Republican one us. discourse impossible. Assume your opponent some intelligence! must be rich, greedy, ignorant, or cruel. I sub­The simple fact is, Reagan is responsible for has good reasons for his beliefs, as absurd as It seems to me that you owe the majority of mit to you that to be a Democrat you must one of the greatest economic turn-arounds you think them. After all, in this case, 52 mil­the United States an apology. If blacks, have a poor attitude about America, you must this country has ever S(:en. Maybe Mondale lion Americans also agree with him. hispanics, women, divorcees with children, be greedy by trying to recapture an office that would do more to help 1he poor in the short Daniel Casey homosexuals, handicapped people, war veter­you have no right in the present laying a claim run, but we believe his policies would have AlumniHall ans (who are most likely that way because of to -just in order to be in power -you must be caused economic chaos, and that would hurt Democratic policies), elderly, poor people, ignorant about the proper way of running a everyone. Any minority must not and college students are so disgruntled with country, and you must be cruel in trying to So we make no apolgic:s for our votes. Our President Reagan's policies, then why did not subject the American nation to four more 
r 

be a gutless group 

consciences are clear. We spent a lot of time such an obviously large portion of this years like the ones we lived through from making our decision and think it was the right DearEditor: country's population change their supposedly 1977-1981. one. We studied the issues and did not vote for The real Cuomo Notre Dame abortion hopeless situation last Tuesday? Why is Presi­Evan Farley Reagan for his personality. We simply believe message: Be Gutless! Recently New York dent Reagan's strongest support to befound in Holy Cross Hall Reagan is a better president than Mondale Governor Cuomo spoke at the University of would be. Notre Dame on the subject ofabortion. It was 
Six residents of a clever, self-service "politician" talk molded StanfordHall to his personal benefit not to upset what he considers the "majority".

Attack on Rtepublicans 
With the boldness of those who quote the dead without fear ofrebuttal, he said that back 


r is the best humor yet 
in the mid-1800's the Catholic bishops did not

r 
DearEditor: speakout against slavery because they were in
r 
Well, I suppose the (:ditorial staff of The the minority.
r 
r Observer deserves som(: credit. The judge­Catholics of today should follow that lead ­r ment shown in printing ~1n entertaining letter according to the Governor. r by Cavanaugh Hall's John Oteri, entitled But he is wrong! r "Republicans are rich and greedy people" can Abortion is a moral issue -not religious. r only be called excellent. It is the best humor Laws should reflect the desires ofa majority r you have had in ages. of the people. 
r Seriously, however, I do think that someone Perhaps one day it will be illegal to take the 
r
, should defend the (pick one) a) rich, b) life ofanyone, in the womb or out. 
greedy, c) ignorant or d) cruel Republican To achieve that, the minority (Catholic c;>r party, which has oflate risen from its slumber other), must convince the majority. and decided out of boredom to destroy first To achieve that, the minority should not be Jimmy Carter and then Walter Mondale by gutless! margins of Biblical scale (Headline: White Eugene W. Connelly Elitists overrun Washington) from Oteri's ver­Plainview, N.Y. bal assault and battery. Considering the 49-1 

Democrats are not the

shellacking Mondale and company took on Tuesday, I suppose the general populace is 

political martyrs 

composed of more rich whites than Oteri thinks. An ignorant elitist myself, I was DearEditor: dismayed to find out that the union vote went I am outraged by John Oteri's Viewpoint to Reagan ("Oh dear, Martha, will we have to column entitled "Republicans are Rich and allow these bowling-shirt ethnics into the Greedy People." How dare he write such an club?") Somehow, Oteri sees a Republican insult. Since when did the Democrats become oligarchy developing out the desires oflunch the "holier than thou" party? I suppose you pail America for economic growth. claim that you have some moral superiority 
An interesting scenario develops in Oteri's over Republicans since you are obviously all line "...The Republicans via their budget cuts such poor and charitable people. The only have eliminated these citizens (the elderly, thing the Democratic party suffers a paucity of 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor·in·Chief. . . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . .. Dave Taiclet Managing Editor . . . . .. Mark Worscheh Controller. . ....... Maripat Horne 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor...... . . Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager. Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of th1e administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. . . Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor.. . . Michael Sullivan Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor . . . .. Dave Grote Project Manager . . . .. Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of t.he Features Editor. . . . . . .. Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on ca:mpus, through letters, Photo Editor. . . . . . . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
• ~ ..........,4-• .. .... ' ... 







View~_o_i_n_t_________Fr-ida.;.;.y,-No-ve-mb.;.;..er;.;.9,~19;.;.84~p~ag;.;.e
7 

Increased independence is destructive to society 
Does that ever happen to you as well? There's something bleary before your eyes, like sort of a vision and you just can't express it in words? That's how I feel about this column today. As often as I have set pen to paper to write a paragraph, I have scratched it out. So, please be a cooperative reader today. 
Recently, I was talking with one of my neighbors about the Food Cooperative that some people in the ~rsity Village: ~e 
Jurgen Brauer 
reasoned culture 
a number-of married graduate students live) 
are trying to set up. During our conversation 
she remarked that most people here in 
America are really only into making and 
saving money rather than into building, con­
tributing and supporting the particular com­
munity they happen to live in. Her comment 
of course wasn't unique: more and more 
measures are being taken to make people less 
dependent on each other giving each a chance 
to fulfill his individual desires. 
Money goes a long way to contribute towards that end. For example: Advanced means of transportation , like the automobile, have helped to make people independent of their Immediate neighbors and neighbor· hoods. Advanced means of communication, such as the telephone, have also added to this Independence. Nowadays we therefore can choose · still within limits-whom we desire to communicate with in spite ofspatial distance. This choice was not available in the past. One was basically stuck in the village or valley in which he was born. 
Advanced education allows people to 
become more flexible with respect to type 
and place of work. More importantly, it allows 
them to switch more easily from one job to 
another. This flexibility is a result of a wider 
fm:us In education. 
Advanced social services in the western, in­dustrialized countries permit people to rely on an anonymous society rather than on their Immediate neighbors. That is, society does not necessarily notice if and when the i ndivid­ual is poor or ill because government institu­tions are provided as a means of hiding poornes.o; or illness. 
In other words, the more advanced we become, the more independent we become. And the more independent we become, the less need we have for community. The less need we have for community, the more com­munities will break down and disappear, eventually leaving a society made up of indi­vidual parts that do not form a whole. What irk.<; me about this is that I just can't under­stand how people can do without communit­ies and neighbors. 
How can people justify associating with the joneses until fed up with them, moving on to the Smiths, and later the Browns and so forth? 
To me it's like going shopping. This is using 
people rather than valuing them and by the 
same token it's being used instead of being 
valued for what one is. 
Let me throw in a few examples that may 
help to make the point. Why should I buy and 
own my own car if my neighbor has one? Am I 
presumptuous? How can I justify making 
claims on my neighbor's car? Well, I don't jus­
tify it. I just invite my neighbors to make use of 
my vacuum cleaner and my piano whenever 
they need either one. Of course, we can't 
move the piano around very well, but then I 
certainly don't mind my neighbors popping 
in. 
I can't come up with any good reason why I 
should not share -and vice versa of course. 
Indeed, they usually do and so do I. And yet 
there appears to be a limit ofjust how far one 
can go with this idea of neighborly sharing of 
one's resources. Further it appears that this 
limit is reached fairly quickly in our society. 
In some African societies where I used to 
live, things were often just the other way 
around. For economic reasons, people often 
just couldn't be independent of their 
respective communities. Often they would 
depend so much on each other that I had trou­
ble discerning just how an individual is distin­
guishable from his community. The 
individual's life apparently was defined in and 
through his community. It is, of course, my 
own up-bringing and background that leads 
me to feel uncomfortable with either ·ex­
treme. 
And yet, I would argue that there's more 
than that involved. While the poor African 
can't achieve more independence, the gener· 
ally rich American could easily opt for more 
inter-dependence with his neighbors. Instead 
he chooses to evade, rather than face his 
neighbor. The above mentioned transporta­
tion and communication features ofadvanced 
civilization make that option an easy one to 
pursue. But it is not only the possibility to 
evade others by going away from them; in ad­
vanced society one is able to build a fence 
around oneself and thus to exclude people. 
The typical American campus, for example is unlike its European counterpart in that it is a fairly well-defined geographical area sur­rounded by distinct lines ofdemarcation like a fence and walls. Notre Dame is thus distin­guishing itself from the rest ofSouth Bend as is IUSB and so on. In my mind that certainly does not contribute to developing community relationships. 
Well, this column is getting long and as I said at the very beginning I just don't feel I have said what it really is that irks me. But per­haps you feel,like me, that increased indepen· dence frees and separates us from people rather than bringing us closer to them. I feel the former to be destructive to society and the latter to be constructive. 
]urgen Brauer ts an economics graduate student and is a regular contributing View­point columnist. 


HEllO ~\~! TH5 IS DffilOR SCIEttCE AT twERSroT l~Wft' WITH TODA~~
I 5\Al~IVAL ~P! 

NEXT, STICK Y~ HOO I~ ~ StAAll BOOY OF WMER ~D WAIT TIIIRlY 
,,.,___/ MI~TfS! 

FIRST, DRESS WA~Ml~! You fXln 

AND R[MfMBE~ NUClEAR ~EA~S A~£ tllT ­
,, 



., 
1 
., 
.,
, 
.,

A sobering sense of the ,, .., 
,
nature of life and love ., , 
Each day is new and in some way different from the day that has come before it and also the one which will follow it. Still, as we reach toward tomorrow we cannot deny that the past helps to shape who we are and what we choose to do. As we crawl out of bed in the morning we are met by commitments, deadline:_~ _2-nd appointm<~nt~_\!::_e rusJ:! ~ 
RandyFahs 
more Friday analysis 
search of who we are =-6ut cari we define our 
true self-identity in the mundane and trivial 
occurences ofour dai_ly lives?_ 
It may sound as though I am babbling like some sort of idyllic idiot; I guess there is a grain of truth in that assertion. Yet, keep in mind that we confine most of our thoughts with things which will have little or no impor­tance in the long run of our lifetimes. Still, these things seem like life or death matters. I am amazed that so many of the special things in our lives are often neglected or given mini· mal weight rather than being put into the posi­tion ofcentrality which they deserve. 
There are two things which separate people from the dull and inanimate matter in this world: life and love. Without some measure of each, we are nothing but dust upon the landscape. Yet, it is the humanness of our life and our ability to love which makes us ep­hemeral and mere temporary inhabitants of this planet. 
It is the spark oflife which gives our bodily water, salts and carbon the capability to speak, think, create, and most importantly of all ­love. Poets, politicians and people of all shapes and backgrounds have tried to quan­tify, comprehend and explain love. While their attempts have been both admirable and thought provoking, they have failed, just as they have been unable and incapable of truly grasping the meaning of life. 
As human beings, life and love are most pre­cious things which we can hold onto for a very brief increment of time. We are but grains of sand in the hourglass oftime. Try as we might, we can never make the sand defy gravity and go back up, nor can we freeze it in time and space. If we dwell on what has past, we stand to neglect the present and miss completely the things which lie in the future. life and love are the most special things in the universe. Yet, we experience but a small portion of them each day. Think of each day as a colored thread which while being inconspicuous and unimportant on its own is part of a beautiful tapestry which tells the tale of human exis­tence. 
I am no Aesop and this is not a fable, but there is a moral to my seeming madness. Enjoy today for what it is, do not neglect the unique­ness ofthe people in it and do not fail to appre­ciate the love which exists around you. These are the most important things in the world, try not to make them take the back seat because 

.,1 
of Inconsequential feelings or events. Even 

.,
though today may appear to be but a speck 

,
when viewed In terms of the continuum of human existence, think of it as a bridge be· 1
,
tween all that has come before and that which ,lies in the midst ofthe future. Even though the ,real and special things of today may not be 
1
easily ascertained, they do exist and they serve as both the supports to the bridge and the motive force which brings us across it. Remove the notions of career, power and public opinion so that you may become more capable of reaching out and drawing close those people and things which are truly spe· cia! and important. 
Normally, my columns deal with issues and events in the political realm. While the Impor­tance of these things is unquestioned, some­thing else has drawn my thoughts away from them and closer to home. All during the pa-;t week, the life of a most beloved and special person has hung in the balance. The notion that I might lose this person, who is so deeply responsible for all that I am, is ultimately frightening and painful. For obvious reasons, little else seemed to matter. 

Questions involving the loss of the life of a loved one are the gravest that a human being can ever experience. All other things which might normally seem important are shown to be both passing and of limited consequence. So I stand today with a sobering sense of the essential nature of life and love. I leave inter­preting these things to philosophers, scien· ~ 
,
tists, and theologians. While my understanding may be ever so 1 
1
limited, there are a few things that I am certain 
l

of: To show our appreciation for love and life we have some obligations a~ human beings. Where life is concerned, we must live each 1., day to the fullest, taking only those things we 
,l 
need for our existence and immediate happi­ness. We are merely temporary dwellers on , this planet and we must share its riches with , everyone else, as well as maintaining a vast reserve for those who will come after us. Where love is concerned, we must not hold onto it for our own ends, rather it is something which we can only receive if we are willing to give it away. While our hearts and souls are the storehouses of love, we must not seek to make them like Fort Knox so that no one gets in to share in all of the treasure. Rather, we must keep the seat ofour love open to all who might wish to partake. 
When it comes to life and love, the key to appreciation and understanding is living each day to the fullest. That way, if you ever find one or both of these thing.~ in serious jeopardy, you can find solace in the fact that while they are your's for an uncertainly brief period of time, you were wise enough to get the greatest benefits possible during the time they were ·in your grasp. It was this notion which got me through what may have been the most difficult week In my life. 
Randy Fabs is a 1984 Notre Dame graduate and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 



Accent 
Why and how brain cells die 
by Stephanie Siegel 
features staff writer 
A
lcohol plays a major role in social situations in colleges and universities around this country. The exact role it does and should play at Notre Dame entered the limelight last year with the new alcohol policy. 
This policy provoked scores ofcomplaints from students who felt the administration was trying to take the place ofabsent parents. One wonders ifthat issue was overshadowing other concerns, one ofwhich is the possible ill effects ofdrinking. 
The biochemical effects ofdrinking are not common knowledge among students. There: is some awareness, as is evidenced in a phrase used lightly by many, "Let's go kill some brain cells." How many ofthese people really think that this is just what they could be doing when they go out drinking? 
The actual damage w the brain caused by alcohol consumption
r 
is unknown. Evidence exists suggelliting that alcohol affects the 
I" 
hippocampus and cer·~bellum, areas involved with learning,r memory, and motor coordination.
r 
Tests conducted on rats showed that after five months of
r 
nutritionally balanced. diets containing alcohol (ethanol),
r 
considerable loss ofhi.ppocampal pyramidal and cerebellar r Purkinje cells occurred. r Many heavy drinkers realize that alcohol causes ill effects. A r common example is title hangover on the morning after a night of r heavy drinking. A hangover usually involves headache, nausea, r sweating, and tremor5.. The exact cause ofhangovers is not known r but hypotheses exist. One maintains that they are reactions to toxic r properties ofethanol and cogeners, contents ofalcohol. The body 
r 
r 
becomes overloaded 'Mth heavy drinking. It works to dispose of
r 
the toxic substances as fast as it can, but these affect the body
r 
before they depart. Another hypothesis holds that a hangover is a form ofwithdrawal 
dependent upon the amount ofalcohol consumed. f Alcohol is a depres5ant. Despite this, at low doses the consumer r can find enjoyment. This is caused by inhibitions reduced by the 
alcohol. People experience euphoria, reduced tension, and greater ease in social interaction. These may be thought ofas "positive" effects,. 


However, they are accompanied by impaired attention and disruption in balance. At this time blood alcohol level is usually around 50 mgldL. From a level of 100-1 50 mgldL, there is a loss in coordination, impaired mental skills and short-term memory, and slurred speech. It is at this level and above that the majority of driving accidents occur. At the 50 mg/dL level, driving capabilities are not necessarily !oM, but accidents can and do occur, perhaps because there is an in•:reased tendency to take risks. 
There are even greater bodily effects as the drinker increases blood alcohol levels. It is above a level of250 mgldL that consciousness is lost. Even more dangerous is ifthe level goes above 500 mg/dL. Over this level, death can occur, in most cases due to heart failure. A drinker can't ignore the effects that alcohol has on this very important organ. 
Ethanol has been shown to have adverse effects on the left ventrical of the heart •:ven ifthe drinker is in a state ofoniy mild intoxication. Larger doses impair the heart's ability to contract. This progresses with the rise in blood alcohol levels. Prolonged alcohol abuse increases the possibility ofheart disease. This is treatable with sufficient periods ofabstaining from alcohol consumption. Howev·er, it is possible that with a weakened heart, in a severe state ofintoxication death could result from cardiac arrest, even ifblood alcohol level isn't as high as the level previously stated. 
Not quite so dramal:ic effects ofalcohol use and abuse are those experienced by many students. Examples are "cottonmouth" and stomach pains. "Cottonmouth" is a result ofethanol inhibiting the flow ofsaliva. This doesn't happen right away, since initially ethanol stimulates thi:> flow. When it does interfere, it takes time to reverse the dehydration. Therefore ifone feels thirsty, the worst thing to drink is an al<:oholic beventge. This will only make the thirst worse later. 
Alcohol stimulates 1the flow ofgastric juice as well. The flow increases the acidic content of the stomach. This is independent of the normal releasing mechanisms and gastric ulcers can occur from the increased daily and maximal flow ofgastric juice. Often aspirin is taken to relieve the headache, but it reacts to the acid content and so aggravates the stomach and makes gastric injury more likely. 
Afar less severe, but much more immediate and common effect ofdrinking is having to urinate more than usual. Alcohol tends to inhibit the workings ofthe hormones which control the kidney. Normally, the kidney's many distal convoluted tubules re-absorb water in a carefully balanced osmotic proctss. Alcohol disrupts this process, causing a buildup ofwater in the kidneys. Urinating frequently also may d·::prive cells ofwater they need to function, and according to one theory, this may contribute to the "hangover headache." In addition, the lack ofwater may contribute to "cottonmouth." 
One doesn't have to be an alcoholic to suffer from diseases related to alcohol consumption. The college situation causes some students to consume alcohol on a regular basis and in sufficient quantities to produce effects above and beyond the average hangover. It would be wise to stop and think what that "one more drink" might mean th•e next day. Health is a gift not to be thrown away. Learning responsible alcohol use is impottant. 

-. 
Friday, November 9, 1984-page 8-9 



Stupidity leads to evil 

features columnist 
Letters to a 
A
n artist once drew a picture of the ()evil's face with the evil showing through. The face was fri~htenln~. not because it was distorted like the features ofa vic­tim from "The Exorcist," but because it wa.' so stupid lookin~. like a parody of idiocy. 
The more vou looked at Satan, 
the worse you.felt, fearful of the subhuman countenance masking a mali~nantly mischievous intelli­~ence dangerous to the rational order which keeps the world balanced. You could learn a half· truth from this leon ofevil: seeing the devil looking so dumb, you could conclude, from his appear­ance, that he's an ass. It would he a mistake to underestimate the cun­ningness of the father oflies. I'm not sure If the devil exists as a personal being, a counter-force to God, a fallen angel bent on ruining us. 
I'm afraid to say he doesn't exist. If he's a real spiritual agent majoring in damnation, hl' would love to catch me off guard that way. Bibli­cal mythology denounces him as an enemy of<iod. When I'm on the point ofde-mythologizing him out ofexistence, I feel sure he's cloud· ing my mind with the error that he's as insubstantial as a Halloween ghost. 
The devil, if he exists, must he an ass, though he is also tricky. Evil, when you think ofIt, looks stupid and banal, and that's how it hides its vldous face. Someone paints the toe nails purple on the statue of Moses by the library. On the day before the statue of Moses was dl·dkatl·d, while it was still covered with canva.~ before its unveiling, soml·one stretched a contraceptive over the upraised finger of the patrlach. Apractical joker wanted to make a statement or cause em­harrassml'nl with a tasteless prank. Would Satan waste his time with such a cheap shot? It wouldn't surprise me, because he's such a guttersnipe. 
Durin~ Vietnam, demonstrators painted the peace sign on some of our religious statues, and a peacenik broke a panel ofcentury-old stained 
Shakespeare performance 
glass in a window.overiookiniihe porch of the Main Building. A few years ago, a fanatic did a hatchet job on the Pieta at St. Peter's. Another 
nut took a knife to the Rembrandt painting ofthe "Night Watch" at the 
National Museum in Amsterdam. 
Vandals are at work everywhere, leaving signatures ofrage on landmarks. Dlsfiguration is one of the facts oflife we get used to in a crazy world, and the destruction is so stupid we hate it. You don't get bent out ofshape every time a teenager paints a moustache on the faces ofa subway billboard, though we would be angry ifhe tried to improve the smile of the Mona Usa. When the kids are having fun with masterpieces, you have to wonder who's poisoning the air with temptations to sacrilege. 
Hardships become so com­monplace, you stop noticing them. Once in New York, I found myself stepping through the derelicts like a ballet dancer, though they were asking my help. I realized I was treating them like obstacles instead ofpeople. Derelicts are human beings who have given up trying. Maybe they're to blame for their condition; maybe they've never gotten any of the breaks; maybe life has treated them shabbily. Whatever the reasons for their dereliction, it upset me to find I was acting as though they were less than human, ignoring them as though I had stopped seeing how tragic they are. 
Persecutions begin when good people ignore the indignities and injustices offered to the minorities. I'm no expert on the Holocaust, hut from what I've read, theJews were excluded from the social scene, then the schools, then the market place. Soon, there were laws against inter-marriage. Then, there was the decision to herd them together in the ghettoes. Finally, they were on their way to the final solution dreamed up hy a mad man. It just took a few years for a totalitarian regime to establish the death camps, because when the Nazi bullies he~an beatin~ up theJews, 
Ellsworld 
they were shrugged offby the Aryan members of the master race as unimportant. Horror hid itself under routines that seemed so ordinary that people didn't look where they were leading. 
Later Christians could absolve themselves from guilt saying: "We didn't know what was happening." Some of the greatest moral monsters of Hitler's party had the appearance offunny little com· edians who got tears in their eyes when they heard a Strauss waltz. Evil incarnates itselfin the ordinary. The ordinary makes you think that nothing is happening you can't live with. The slight headache I have from drinking hardly seems like a warning I'm on my way to becom­ing a drunk. The fun I'm having as a young person with "loving them and leaving them" is too enjoyable to make me worry about forming the habits ofa sexual glutton, in­capable offulfilling an emotional commitment. 
I don't hunt for sin where there is no sin, which would be the greatest sin ofaU. I read the headlines of horror, one on top of the other, in the daily paper. None ofwhat the papers say is bad, but there is a lot ofstupidity among us. Stupidity does undercover work for evil. A stoned driver getting behind the wheel ofa car is lethal, though he's as good as gold. An 18-year-old, wandering around by herself after an evening ofgin and tonics, may be as wholesome as an angel, but she can still spoil her life with the risks she's taking. 
Sin is a theological word th<tt 
makes us impatient. Dumb is the way we describe a roommate w lo steals diamonds from Tiffany's. Many a promising career is nippet in the bud by the ways ofdumb­ness. lbe road to hell is probably paved with dumb intentions. The dumb bunnies are likely candidates for the eternal fires or regret. The Devil, looking like a malevolent clown, is as smart as a fox. We are hroadminded and tolerant of monkey-shines, until, to our surprise, we find that Satan has twisted them into sacraments of hate. 
It's a tricky world, booby-trapped 
with landmines. Our fun and games 
can end with a list ofvictims, unless 
we play by the rules and use a net. I 
hope it doesn't make me sound like 
a Jansenist to say so. 

R.H.E. 

by Heather Miller 
features staffwriter 
T
ht· National Shakespeare company performs throughout the continental lJnited States and in Canada, and has reached over two and a half million people. This repertory group will perform "'Ibe Two Cientlemen of Verona" on Friday, November lJ, at Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Originated in 1963 with a six-week tour through New York and New Jersey, the NSC has brought Shakespeare to life for people who would not ordinarily have the opportu· nity to see the Bard's plays performed by a professional company. In addition to per· forming in large metropolitan areas, the company travels to small towns, colleges, universities and community arts centers. 
"'lbe Two Gentlemen of Verona," the most famous ofShakespeare's early comedies, is a tale of love that touches on perplexities of youth and friendship. Tickets may he ob­tained at the SMC box office. 

,.. ···~I ...t I h , ... 

•MOVIES 
There's more hilarity than suspense in the Graduate Student lJnion's presentation, "The Return of the Pink Panther" this weekend. Peter Sellers returns as Inspector Clouseau in search ofthe elusive Pink Panther diamond. Christopher Plummer and Catherine Schell also star in this film which will be shown tonight and tomor· row at 7, 9:15, and 11:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission will be $1. 
The Friday Night Film Series will present "The Big Deal on Madonna Street," an Italian film with English subtitles. A superb cast ofItalian character actors comprise the motlely and amiable gang in the film and their ambition is to rob a pawn shop. The film begins at 
7:30 in the Annenburg Auditorium and admission will be 12.50. 
•MUSIC 
On Sunday there will be a Faculty Organ Recital by Craig Westen· dorf. Westendorfwill perform works by Kittel, Bach, and Reger. The recital will commence at 8 in Sacred Heart Church and admission is free. 
•ART 
As part ofthe Visiting Artist Lecture Series, Selina Trieffand Robert Henry will speak on painting and drawing Sunday at 2 in the Annen­burg Auditorium. 
"Renaissance Drawings from The Ambrosiana" will be on display at the Snite until December 30. This exhibition, organized by the Medieval Institute, includes eighty drawings selected from the Blbliotica Ambrosiana's collection in Milan Italy. 
Hours at the Snite are I 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday; I to 4 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8p.m. 
•THEATRE 
Duke Ellington's "Sophisticated Ladies" is being presented by South Bend's Broadway Theatre League this weekend. Performances will be tonight and tommorow at 8 in the Morris Civic Auditorium downtown. For ticket imformation call 284-9190. 
•DANCE 
Chance to Dance is back! A D.]. and free refreshments will he present tonight dance from 10-1 in the LaFortune Ballroom. A S I admission fee will be charged for the event which is beingsponsored by Howard, Badin, and Carroll Halls. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
Described as the "rip-roaring comedy show that will knock you out of your seat," the comedy touring company, "Second City" will be performing tomorrow night at 8 in Wa~hington Hall. Admission will be $5 and tickets are available at the S.A.B. Record Store. 
The International Students Organization will be sponsoring a din· ncr dance Saturday night from 8-Z in the Chatauqua Ballroom. Dishes from 20 different countries will be featured and dancing will follow. Tickets are 55 and are available at the door. All are welcome. Semi-formal attire requested. 
•MASS 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Robert Kennedy at 5: I 5 Mass (Saturday night vigil). Father Michael McCafferty at 9 a.m Mass_. Father William Beauchamp at I0:30 Mass. Father Mark Poorman at 12:1 5 Mass. 

Peter Sellers stars this weekend as the bumbling Inspector Clouseau In "The Return ofthe Pink Panther." 






Sports Briefs 
The NI> basketball teams, both the men's and women's, will be having intrasquad games Sunday in the ACC. The women's game will begin at 6:30 p.m., and the men will follow at approximately 7:30p.m. Student tickets are on sale now for $1 at gate 10 ofthe ,\CC.-The Obseroer 
Olympic Marathon ChampionJoan Benoit 
will be conducting a running clinic tomorrow night at 8: 15 at Mis­hawaka High School in conjunction with the Michiana Sports Fes­tival's Princess City Classic. The run itselfwill take place on Sunday at 2 p.m., also ;It Mishawaka High School. Registration for the run is tomorrow bet11Veen 10:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. at University Park Mall. For more information on this event, call Challenge, Inc., at 259-RUNS.­
The Obseroer 

"Fitness Focus," a monthly newsletter published by NVA, is now available. To be put on the mailing list, call NVA at 239-6100. Intc:rested in a program of exercise and fitness? NVA's Century Club, a program in which you can set your own exercise goal, may be fo~r you. For further information, contact NVAto receive newsletter and pledge card outlining the program. -The Obseroer 



Classifieds 
.Friday, No!ember 9, 1984 -page 10 
A one-on-one basketball tournament is being sponsored by NVA. The tournament will have two divisions for men: those over six feet tall, and those shorter than six feet. Double elimi­nation will be in effect after the second round. The registration deadline at the NVA office is today. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club'A' and 'B' teams 
will play Ball State tomorrow at 1 p.m. on Stepan Field. The 'A' team, paced by the scoring ofJoe Whalen and Steve Schneider, is coming off a 12· 3 victory last Saturday over the University ofChicago. The 'B' team defeated the Chicago 'B' squad, 30-0, on scoring by Chris Guar­notta, Steve Bryek, TomJomer and Tom Rudy.-The Obseroer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will be having its third annual bench press meet tomorrow at 1 p.m. in the third-floor weight room in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone, including varsity athletes, who is interested may sign up in the weight room at the Rock or the ACC. An entrance fee of $2 will be charged to pay for awards. ·The Obseroer 
The NVA "Turkey Shoot" will be held Nov. 13 and 15. The team target-shooting competition is open to teams of two men and two women each. Equipment and supervision will be provided. The deadline to reserve a time at the NVA office is today. ­
The Obseroer 

High-scoring Dantley goes back to Jazz 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY High-scoring star forward Adrian Dantley ended his two-month standoff with the Utah Jazz yesterday, agreeing to honor the final year of his contract with the National Basketball Associ­ation franchise. 
In return, the Jazz will extend Dantley's contract, signed in 1980, for three more years through the 1987-88 season, team officials said. 
Dantley was scheduled to un­dergo a physical examination yester­day, ending a sometimes acrimonious impasse between last season's NBA Comeback Player of the Year and the team -a contract squabble at times punctuated by harsh criticism ofthe 6-5 forward by Jazz coach Frank Layden. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advenising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­ters erda . 

At Corby's Saturday-Night, I lost myfavor­For Sale -one round trip ai~ine ticket to Help!!! Ineed Penn St. tickets! call Mark 1 need a ride to Philadelphia lor Thanks­To THE BEST MOM, Mary Ann ite charcoal grey coat with light grey anywhere In U.S. Must be used by 12/17. at3684 giving. Will pay usual. Anne 284-5181 Schonhoff-1 Love You-Kath. 
NOTICII] stripes. It waa from SFA, a r-ard will be Best offer. Cal11216. ................................ offered lor its return, and no questi001 will I NEED 5 STUD. TIX FOR PENN ST., David Sweethear1, Welcome to SMC! I desperately need a ride to the D.C. Area be asked. II you know of its whereabouts Hundreds of legal and letter size folder, CAUPAT3055 Glad you could come up lor a visit. Love lor Thanksgiving Break! II you can help ­
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 call Frances at 284-4241. genlledger binders, 3 ring note books and and missing you much. Minna Mouse Call Kim at 284-5082 many other used office supplies lor sale Need Penn St. tix, GA's or other. Call Dan TYPING AVAILABLE. 287~1062. 
STRING BROKE NOW MY GLOVE'S CHEAP. 234-3058 alter 6 287-6262 Mary-A friend is a push when you've GONE RED, KNIT LOST SOMEWHERE CHANCE-TO-DANCE stopped A word when you're lonely A FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIClUE, SEND A IN 'BRAR'S 2ND FLOOR PLEASE FOR SALE amplifier David Hafler dh200k giude when you're searching A smile HURRY MY HAND'S GETTING COLD IF 100 watts/channel call Mary SMC-4305 Friday, November 9 when you're sad A song when you're glad. 
BEUY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272­

FOUND, RETURN TO 104 LYONS OR 10 p.m. to 1a.m. We love you, Mary-Heidi and Pat (P.S. 
1858 
PERSONALS

CAU 2922 THANKS! Cheutauque Bllllroom John Loves You Too) 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 alter 5:30 FREE refreshments. OJ To All Aquaintances of Mr. Eschew: We
TICKETS

LOST ! I CAN'T BELIEVE I LOST IT I PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CAU 234-$1 Admission wish to send our condolences for the THAT'S RIGHT I LOST MY GOLD • 0363. 24 hour hodine/lree pregnancy test untimely demise of Saturday night heart TYPING SERVIt:E CROSS PEN. IT MEANS MUCH TO ME. available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER sponsored by Howard, Badin, and Car· throb. I guess he got caught with his pants 277-4045 IF FOUND PLEASE CAU MIKE -2384. Need Penn State tix-Student or G.A. Call roll Halls down again! His nimble feet (and hands) PICKUP AND DEU'iERY THANKS! Fran2598 SAFE TO THRASHIll will be sorely missed but not by all. The 
Arch, Lone Star, Capital and the Slap. Need Penn State G.A. tix to help Frank TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
································································ 

HELP! I CAN'T SEE! LOST:TAN PURSE and Judy (My mom and dad) celebrate THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A MA· PENNSTATEIII I'd Like to buy a vowet', please. AT PULTE'S HALLOWEEN PARTY-­their anniversary. Call Maria 4174 TURE RESPONSE Idesperately need two P1111n State GA's. TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-81117 CONTENTS: EYEGLASSES, Please call Mary at 1333. Sl<id Row SkiQ, .f\wl' ~kid R~~~~ iii 
RETAINER, CONTACS-VERY IMPOR­MY CONGRESSMAN-MY HERO-MY MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK 
RefuggeM. A trunlfc'ldll'-·

wOfioPFiocESSiNG'....A~io·· ..n:;;ii'io·. TANT! IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT. SUMMER EMPLOYER (I HOPEII) IS CREPERIE FRANCAISE!! CREPERIE off a party lor such trivial things as study­
272-8827. ME AT 284-5074 ASAP COMING FOR THE PENN. STATE LET THEM EAT CAKE!!!! FRANCAISE!! CREPERIE FRANCAISE!! ing ................................................................ GAME. PLEASE SEU ME AT LEAST STOP BY FOR SOME DELICIOUS DES­PRO-TYPE Over 14 yrs. of experience. TWO GA TIX. I CAN ALSO THROW IN LET THEM EAT CAKE !II! SERT CREPESI FRIDAY NIGHT,9-1, T.J. Conley, a rapresentative from the Computerized service. Dissertations, law LOST: GREEN NOTRE DAME JACKET SOME PENN. STATE STUD TIX. THIS BADINHAU! JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS, will be on papers, student papers 2n.5833. ' THE WEEK BEFORE OCTOBER MAN IS THE CHAIRMAN OF THE ORDER YOUR CAKE TODAY FROM campus at the Canter lor Social Concerns ............................................................... BREAK; LAUNDAAY TAG SAYS MARC HOUSE PR~FE CAUCUS (I'M DEs­NO CAKE SERVICE THRU IRISH GAR­CHUCK BERETZ-YOU HAVE BEEN on Monday, November 12. Please call 
GET INTO A TOP LAW :SCHOOL. DURETTE: IF FOUND CAUALISA4341 PERATE I HAD TO MENTION THAn, DENS!!! SURPRISE A FRIEND WITH A REFUTED, YOU POLITICAL SCIENCE Dee at 239-5293 lor an appointment. Send lor free information I'IOW. Indicate SO DO YOUR PART TO STAMP OUT B-DAY CAKE TODAYI!!! MAJOR, YOU. GRAB YOUR ANKLES, name, address, school, year, major, or­ABORTION BY KEEPING THIS MAN YA $/ And now lor something completely differ­ganizational affiliation and ~oaition. Write HAPPY. CAU (277·7570) SAVE THE I lost my Pulsar man's watch in ihe weight &! DEMOCRAT! --SIGNED, MORRIS-ent ... a man without two Penn St. tix. call to: PASS (Professional/Graduate School UNBORNIIIIIII room of the Rock last Friday. If you found , SEY 2AB, 3AB FROSH & SPROUT Marc 1642 Applicants' Support Service), 80 Wall St., WANTED it, PLEASE call Sam at 4665111! 
Suite614, NY, NY 10005 I Need It Bad!!!!! One Penn. St. ticket· stu­ROOM 200 WILL NEVER BE CAUGHT Art McGlothen is a man-god. dent or G.A. Please call Grace-3781. Ok, I know it was all in fun, and you prob­BY BUDDAI! HAVE A SUPER 19TH,KIM! ably didn't mean any harm by it. Besides, Lyons "women" revert to 8th grade Need ride to Cleveland leaving on 11/21. Need PENN STATE tix!! StuclentorG.A.I EVERYBODY would like to have a Texas sexuality
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 

Will generously share expenses. II you need lots, so please call Terri ]2n-7 455. licence plate which says NOTA OM hang­FLY TO CAUFORNIA FOR A 
MAS. COKER, 233-7009 

can help, PLEASE call Mike at t688. ing on their wall. But I really need It back, WEEKEND-oranywhere else in the U.S. QUESTION OF THE DAY: Will Peter D. HELP! I NEED 4 GA'S FOR PENN so if you borrowed it from my 1-fONDA last One round trip ai~ine ticket lor sale -to break the midnight barrier? 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WIU DO 

Ride needed to St. Paui/Mpla. lor STATE -BIG BUCKS $$,CALL LARRY Friday, please call Sam ]4665 NO QUES­anywhere you feel like going BUT all
TYPING 

Thanksgiving. Willing to leave early!! 1506 TIONS ASKED !!!! travel must be completed by 12/17. BLANK TAPES FOR SALE ProgreulveCAU: 287-5162 (Sunday or Monday) Call Mary at 2n-Taking best offer. Makes a great gilt! Call Muelc Club p......,ta TDK SA IIO'e: 2851. PENN ST GAB FOR SALE.272-6306 ATIENTION THEODORE FLOUNDER 1216. $2.25 lor PMC rnemberw, $2.751or gen­
Please contact Lisa the Wonderlish im­.,.1 public. See IIIII In 821 Flanner, Need extra money? St. Mary's Dining Hall BE A PALl I NEED PENN STATE GA'S mediately! Riser-you're a heat-on and you always 1181;. Is interested in hiring Notre Dame and St. OR STUD TIX.CAU KATHY 4344SMC. will be!!!! And as always, we remember to 
Mary's students. Applications are Can you bake Apple Brown Betty? Darn say THAANNNKKYYY AA!!! PROGRESSIVE MUSIC DORM REPS: available at the Dining Hall Office. Wanted:5PennSt. tix., someingrps. ol2. sockS? Cure ring around the collar? II so, Cometo341 Keenen"'-3:30end Call288-9403. $$ chances are good that you could become 5:30p.m. TODAY to pick up your NOv.
LOST/FOUND I 

RIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI OR CINCIN­Mrs. Pete!! Fall at his feet in 418 St. Ed's newe~ett...BE THERE. 
NATI AREA 11-9. WIUING TO RENT A 2'uscG:A:·s·Foo.sA.::e:·c:a:i:i:.M'.6:R'v·Ar today. L.sst day to apply. I desperately need one P1111n State stu­
CAR IF tlECESSAAY. CALL MARY 3741. dent ticket. If you can help, please call BOB-DON'T WORRY OVER LOSTLOST: A PAPER ON C.S. PIEIRCE WAS 
JANE2674. KISSY KAT-YOU ARE MISSED Maura at 2694. BOXERS. MAILED TO SUSIE THIS LOST ON TUES. LAST WEEK IN CUs­
Need-PENN ST. G.A.e. c.tl Tom et MORNING. LOVE,SMC 

HING OR THEREABOUT:>. PLEASE ATTN. ND/SMC COMMUNITY
Ride NM<led:To Rochester,N.Y. area lor 1580. MEUON: Hopefully I will not have to
CAU MIKE 287-8264 OR FIETURN TO NOV. 8 WAS JEANNE "THE QUIVER"
Thanksgiven Break. Will share usual ex­resort to blind, no-legged men. Alter all GRANNY-Life just seems to get better
PHILOSOPHY DEPT. IF FOUND. IT IS BOWMAN'S BIRTHDAY
pen-. Mom's expecting me to C81Ve the MY NAME IS VINNIE. there is a whole week left to look around. and better ... I mean. with the baby and all. 
OF EXTREME IMPORTANCE FOR MY Even though you missed it, as we did,
turkey so please help Ill Call Basil at 2275 There, now that the exciting stuff is out of Meanwhile, maybe I will get some ideas How 'bout Caliope ~it's a gi~? Maybe if we
THESIS. you still have time to go over to 140 Lewis 
. Do it lor my mom! the way, I think you should know that I this weekend. I know at least YOU'U settle down we can get one ol those bow­
and wish her a Belated B-day, make her 
need -Penn State GA's, preferably have a good time. Yet another SYR expe­tie phones. II not can we still park? Us, 

LOST Please help me reccYer my lost quiver. You can even call her at 41611.
RIDERS NEEDED TO PITTSBURGH before the game on lhe 17th. Call VINNIE rienced together!-the BABY you, and 02. -L&L
Mechanics of Solids Book. II you have in­(That's nola misprint.) While your at it, be
FOR BREAK, LEAVING 11/21.CALL at 2538. That's VINNIE. 
formation or my book plea!ae call 232-sure not to ignore her roommate, AUCE
ROBIN AT 234-7319 Kim Trennerl couldn't stay away loreven To the wench who was asking If anyone 
0912 and talk to John K. or leave a "THE GROAN" GRONER. Have a good
FOR SALE: 6 Penn State GA's in a one week. Aren't you glad you finally are had a good time at Stanford's SYR: II you 
Quiver, signed: Groen, Karen, Bill,

message. WANTED: Riders to No. VA/DC lor block;Bast Offer Call Eric 1528 one linlahed with a certain lab practical? Now I weren't such a stuck-up sow, you might
Mary, Chris, Maria, Oolice, John, Dave, 

Thanksgiving. Call MB at 4172. don't have to stay away anymore, right? have had a good time, too. 
Patty, Alice, Sorin Hall, Bob, Steph, Tripp, 

HELPIII NEED 4 GA PENN ST. TICKETS What do you mean, you have a paper to LOST: HP 11C CALCULATOR!! IF $$$$$$CAU4511 NOW! etc. write? WICKED FUN,HUH? It's ANN D'S FOUND CALL MICHEUE 1283. LOST: Nineteenth Birthday!Anyone wishing to
ATTN. BOWS (BEAUS)

LADIES GOLD WRISTWATCH. IF -~-FORSALE I DESPARATELY need 2 Penn St. GA's. make her day, give her a call at 2691.
Yesterda~ was Jeanne "The Quiver"

FOUND CALL AIXA 1283. Call Bill late 1521. Have a great birthday,Anne!Long live
Bowman's Birthday, She's looking lor Leave Marc Ramirez alone! HAAHHHPPY times. 
quiver filler!! Stop on over to 140 Lewis

Lost a silver SEIKO Dual-duonograph NEED STUD TIX FOR PENN ST. CAU NOW!! . ----____
watch. II found call Scott at ~111. MUST SEU IMMEDIATELY -COM­JIMAT1374. Carol Brown is a "knock-out" PORTIA JEAN the SEX MACHINE is to­PLETE COMPUTER SET-UP APPLE lie morrow 19. The wrinkles are appear ing, 
wii:i:....·;;:a:ui:.....i<~i:.... ANo....cuFF 

I LOST MY PULSAR MAN'S WATCH (n-) Apple lie 64K & monitor; disk drive; NEED PENN ST GA'S. WIU PAY$ I! STEVENS PLEASE WEAR WHATEVER DAN THE MAN! HAPPY B-DAY TO THE her last year as a teen. Spastic & violent, LAST FRIDAY IN THE ROCI<'S WEIGHT Apple Daisywheel letter quality printer, PLEASE CALL AMY-291-9644 SNORKEL APPARATUS AND WATER "BROWN EYE" P.S. I HAVE THE she's got a lot of pep; so if you give her ROOM. IF YOU FOUND rr. PLEASE Applewriter lie software, Basic manual, GEAR THAT YOU OWN TO MASS SUN­NEGATIVES! birthday kisses, you better watch your CALL SAM A T4665. I NEED IT II!! and EG-V surge protector (prevents elct. NEED Penn. Tix or I'm dog meat. Help by DAYNITE.HAPPYBIRTHDAYISOYSIII step. Happy Birthday P.J.! 
damage). Total original purchase price calling Mike at 1208 KATHRYN, STACY, DENISE, 
lost brown alligator akin wallot a healthy was $3455--willing to sell lor $3000 or I CAN DREAM ABOUT YOU ... I CAN THERESA, ROBIN, KATHY, THERESA, r-ard offered; please call :134-2275 ~ beat offer. AVOID LONG DELAYS IN OR­THIS IS AN APPEAL FOR PENN ST. TIX­DREAM ABOUT YOU•.•I CAN DREAM KIM, KAREN, GINA, GABRIELLE, BAR­COME SHOW YOUR SUPPORT you happened to run acroes. it. aak lor DERING ONE OF APPLE'S MOST VER­-1 NEED 3 GAa CAU MIKE FLANNERY-ABOUT YOU ... STARE STARE STARE BARA, DELIA, DIANE, ELIZABETH, FOR NORTH QUAD 
P.C. SATILE & POWERFUL COMPUTERS. 4061 STARE HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAULII ANA, DEBBY, WENDY SYR 2. MOORE, DOMINANCEI Contact Dr. Dan Rybicki 256-5275 (leave Q-181!! 
message). NEED 2 Penn State GA 's call Martha at HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB Join In • pep relly lor Stanford Hell'e LOST SILVER CHAIN SENTIMENTAL SMC5120 FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH JAMES FLYNN-GOOD ACTING unde!Mtact football end eocc:erIMmel VALUE PLEASE CALL 1718 Rellgloue GlftaIn SUIInecl 0.. 8-11pm FR-SA 8pm-1am JOB.MULDOON'S FUN? FORGET WHEN: Tonight et 7 p.m. WHERE: 
lndivid\Jally handcrafted by The Trap­I Need 3 Penn State Tickets together. GA LIVING OFF-CAMPUS. -DAD Stepe <:A Hegger Hell. lost: gold ring ~n Zahm and Lewis piatinee. For more information, write or Student. Please call Pattie 284-5087 SCHOLASTIC Magazine ...it's what on Thurs. night. It husentimental value II Santa Rita Abbey, Box 97, Sonoita, Notre Dame needs. Coming November PAUL KOHL-yes you-Happy 18th from found call Kim 4205. Arizona, 85837. Desperately NM<led: 3 or 4 G.A.s lor the 15. Coli& Kathy THE JOHN GINTY SOCIETY: Fighting lor 
Penn St. Game, will pay cash lor tickets. the right to light the right fight lorthe Right! FOUND: Silver croea, on Stepan field be­COMM(K)ORE COMPUTER SYSTEM Call Vince 3282 Need extra money? St. Mary's Dining Hall SPROUT IS COOl.IIll _,Stepan Center and Ju1'1iper Road FOR SALE, INCLUDES COMM(K)ORE is interested in hiring Notre Dame and St. 
on Saturday rncmlng. c.n 2045 and <r64, 1541 DISK DRIVE, AND 1525 VIC NEEDED 4 PENN. ST. TICKETS CALL Mary's atudenta. Applications are Happy 8-day Truclee "Madonna" Happy 21st, Virginia Oppermann! Love, dellcrlbe fully to claim. PRINTER -$450-CALL 1469. DAVEH.1606 available at the Dining Hall Office. Lansfield Get ready to SWOOP! P&A 
............................................................:... 

The Observer Friday, November 9, 1984-page 11 

Trout, Aase get most attention at free-agent draft 
A..'iSOClated Press 
NEW YORK-Pitchers Steve Trout ofthe Chicago Cubs and Don Aase of the California Angels attracted more attention yesterday than Rick Sutcliffe and Fred Lynn, their bigger-name and higher-priced teammates available at major league baseball's free-agent draft. 
Sutcliffe won the Cy Young Award as the National League's premier pitcher following a 16-1 perfor­mance that helped the Cubs win their first title of any kind in 39 years, the NL East flag. But Trout helped, too, with a 13-7 record. 
Lynn was fifth on the Angels in batting with a .270 average. His 23 home runs tied him for second on the club and he was fourth in runs­batted-in with 79. 
But Aase, a reliever rebounding from elbow surgery, was instrumen­tal, too, in keeping the Angels in the American League West pennant race by going 4-1 with eight saves and a 
1.62 earned-run-average. 
Weekend sports 
at Notre Dame 
Sunday women's basketball intrasquad game 6:30p.m. 
ACC 

men's basketball intrasquad game 7:30p.m. 
ACC 

Ralph A. Casperson Books 
THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS ON AU SUBJECTS -WE BUY USED BOOKS· 
HOURS: 
Wed., Sal. • Sun. 9a.m. · 7 p.m. Of by •ppotntment 
ues ,._._.._ ..... NU.. 683-2888 

HUDSON BAY 
AND OTHER FINE WOOL BLANKETS at lowest prlcealn town -useful &. fhoughHul ­FRONTIER WOOLENS ·In the Thelves Mkt.-Edison & Ironwood 

DARBY'S 
for late night munchies... 
o~N:]J' ~ 
0' "l' v-<t-1-J 
-~~­
--~-­


""''lliiiii._.__ In the basement of LaFortune 


-NURSING ·.MAJORS 



INTENSIVELY CARE.FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 

$1.00 off any pizza.
$1.00 

One coupon per pizza. 
Off 

Fast, Free Dellvery'u Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 
So, in the 51 minutes that the major leagues ran through the list of 56 eligible free agents, Trout was se­lected a draft-leading 17 times and Aase's name was called out by 13 clubs. That compared to the eight times Sutcliffe was picked and five times Lynn was chosen. 
Some other big-name players likewise were ignored by a majority of the teams. 
Bruce Sutter, the relief ace ( 45 saves, l.54 ERA) for the St. Louis Cardinals, was chosen by six teams, and designated hitter-first baseman Andre Thornton (33 homers, 99 RBI's) of the Cleveland Indians was chosen by seven. 
Three teams-the Cubs, New York Mets and World Champion Detroit Tigers -ignored the draft entirely, passing on the first rwo rounds to eliminate themselves from selecting in subsequent rounds. 
Basketball 
continuedjrompage 16 
guard Joe Howard, busy with the football team right now, won't play Sunday, but will join the team after the football season ends. 
The frontcourt, aside from Kempton's injury, poses less of a concern for Phelps at this point of the season. 
"We've got the talent and the depth to pound people up front," says Phelps. "I think there were only six or seven teams that out­rebounded us last year (the Irish outrebounded their opponents by an average margin of seven per ~arne, sixth best in the NCAA: last 
Houston made just one selection, Philadelphia outfielder Sixto Lez­cano, and Minnesota selected only Thornton before bowing out. The last team to pick was Texas, taking Toronto designated hitter-catcher CliffJohnson in the 21st round. The Rangers then passed rwice, ending the draft after 23 rounds. 
Several club executives ex­pressed the opinion that Sutter and Sutcliffe, rwo of the jewels in this draft, were ignored by most teams because of their price tags and the likelihood they will re-sign with their 1984 teams. 
The rwo other "double-figure" free agents were outfielder Lee Lacy of Pittsburgh, chosen by 14 teams following a season in which he batted .321 with 12 homers and 70 RBI's, and San Diego pitcher Ed Whitson, named by I 1 teams after his 14-8 season and 3.23 ERA for the 
year), so we've proven we can domi­nate the boards with the people we've got coming back." 
While Phelps will be missing only Kempton because of injury for Sun­day's game, DiStanislao could be without the services of as many as four ofher players. 
Defimtely out of the line-up for Sunday is 5-6 freshman guard Mary Gavin, a product of Wildwood Cath­olic High School in Wildwood, N.J. Gavin, who was named by USA Today as one of the top 25 high school players in the nation, has been unable to practice all season because of a knee injury suffered over the summer. 
"Mary hasn't been practicing, but yesterday (Wednesday) she was 
London School of Economics and Political Science A chance to study and live in London 
Junior-year  programs.  Postgraduate  Diplomas.  
One-Year  Master's  Degrees  and  Research  
Opportunities in the Social Sciences.  
The w1de range of subJects 1ncludes  
Account1ng  and  F1nance  •  Actuanal  Sc1ence  •  

Anthropology • Busmess Stud1es • Econom1cs • Econometncs • Econom1c History • European Stud1es • Geography • Government • lndustnal Relat1ons • lnterna!lonal History • lnternat1o11al Relat1ons • Law • Management Sc1ence • Operat1onal Research • Personnel Management • Philosophy • Population Stud1es • Poll!lcs • Reg1onal and Urban Plann1ng Stud1es • Sea-Use Policy • Soc1al Administration • Social Planning in Developing Countries • Social Work • Sociology • Social Psychology • Statistical and Mathematical Sciences • Systems Anaylsis • 
Application forme from: Admleelons Registrar, L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England, staling whether undergraduate or postgraduate 
~. 
and quoting Room 10. 
.. 
LSE--------...
-r=============:::;;:;r:============::;l-as possible. 
It 

©ocffi(i} (iN/Ci)fl' !r!ffi({J 
liDIA\OOtCJI 
!1.\(t 
THE PLACE UNDER GRACE fl:Ml-11 :M lklllliDII 
I$JWlm rmz a [!l}um 
one dollar admission 
~ 'U '. •~o-• ;. 
Padres. He also was the winning pitcher in the only game the Padres won against Detroit in the World Se­ries. 
Nineteen of the 56 players were 
selected  four  or  more  times,  
meaning they  can  negotiate only  
with  those  teams  which  picked  

them and, in 15 cases, their most recent team, which retained negotiating rights to them. 
The players whose rights were not retained by their I984 teams were Lezcano, pitchers Bobby Cas­tillo of Minnesota and Burt Hooton of Los Angeles, and designated hitter-outfielder Oscar Gamble of the Yankees. 
Of the 3 7 players selected fewer than four times, meaning they are now free agents eligible to negotiate with anyone, 23 went completely undrafted. But that doesn't mean they won't be back in 1985. 
able to begin straight-ahead run­ning," said DiStanislao. "She's recovering -the trainers and the doctors are very pleased with her and with the way she's recovering. But we don't want to push anything. 
"I think she's going to beao1e to come back and turn in a decent season for us." 
Questionable for Sunday are soph· omore guard Vonnie Thompson (possible stress fracture of foot), senior guard and co-captain Laura Dougherty (reaggravated ankle in­jury)and senior forward Ruth Kaiser (bruised calf). 
DiStanislao has not yet set her line-ups for Sunday, mostly because of the injury situation. 
"There's a lot of inbalance in the line-up at this point because of the tenuous guard situation," says DiS­tanislao. "We have different people filling in different spots. 
"So it's going to be really interest­ing to see ;ust what happens. I don't think any starting spot is going to be written in stone for a while, until we find out who's healthy and who's able to perform best In those spots." 
With three veterans injured, DiS­
tanislao will be closely watching the 
other four freshmen: guard Kathy 
Barron, Okemos, Mich.; center Beth 
Morrison, St. Louis, Mo.; and for­
wards Sandy Botham, Madison, 
Wise., and Kathy Brommeland, 
Naples, Fla. 
"I'm very interested to see how 
the freshmen play," says the fifth. 
year coach. "Sandy Botham has been 
doing really well. Beth Morrison is 
improving; Kathy Barron is improv­
ing. 
"Kathy Brommeland has been very sick lately. She was out for two weeks of practice with a pretty in­tense stomach virus. So she's on the mend now -we'll see how she does." 
In addition to the freshmen, DiS­
tanislao will be keeping a close eye 
on several veterans, hoping to get 
the line-up situation settled as soon 
"(Senior forward) Carrie Bates has been playing very well. Uunior forward) Trena Keys and (junior guard) Denise Basford have been playing pretty well, too. So Sandy, Carrie, Trena and Denise arc people that we're looking at very seriously. 
"But everyone else is performing pretty well -(senior forward) Ruth Kaiser, (senior center and co­captain) Mary Beth Schueth, (sophomore forward) Lavetta Willis and (sophomore forward) Mickey Skieresz are playing well." 
IRISH ITEMS -Tickets for the games are available at Gate 10 of the ACC from now until game time.... Admission is S I for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students with I D .... Marat­hon Oil Company is once again 
, sponsoring the games, with proceeds going to Logan Center and Neighborhood Study Help Program ... Complimentary team photos will be distributed to all those in atten­dance.... Notre Dame players will be available for autographs prior to the start ofthe men's game.... 
" ' 



--------------------------------------------IIIIi 

----~----------· ·--­
---------------------------------------------------------------------, 


Friday, November 9, 1984-page 12 
An exhausting position 
Ding~ens plays dual role on defense 
By MICHAEL}. tCHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The defensive tackle is one of the cornerstones of the defensive unit on a football team. The tackle must confront linemen from the offensive side who are usually larger as well as various types ofblocking schemes in an effort to find the ball and halt its progress towards h1is own goal. 
The position is extremely ex­hausting and often requires the services of more than one player to fill the position during a game. Playing a key rol•e on the Notre Dame squad since his freshman year has been junior defensive tackle Greg Dingens. 
Dingens, a 6-5, 2~>4-pound Bloom­field Hills, Mich., native, has played in every game while at Notre Dame except the first game of the 1982 season against Michigan. Last year, he started four games for the Irish, including the Liberty Bowl win over Boston College, when he played contain tackle. 
This year, Dingen:s has been an im­portant figure on the defensive line, as he splits time with sophomore Wally Kleine, playing a type of swing-tackle which keeps the defen­sive front strong and fresh on every play from scrimmag•e. 
"I consider ( Din:gens) a starting player," said Irish defensive line coach Rick Lantz. "When he comes into the game, he's fresh and can go full speed so that (he and Kleine) don't have to go 80 plays a game. I think he is a stabili;~ing factor with the defensive team." 
While Dingens does not start, he does gets to play a good deal and is able to contibute a great amount to the team's effort. 
"I basically split time with Wally and, theoretically, I'm supposed to be playing as much time as Wally, al­though it hasn't n1rned out that way," said Dingens. "I play enough to get into the game and really make a contribution, so that's good enough for me." 
According to Lantz, the main rea­son why Kleine is pbying in front of Dingens is because he got a slight jump on him in the spring when the junior.decided to hit the books hard for a while. Additionally, as Dingens can play on either side of the line, the value of the role he plays is 


Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
ing only two places further back as he posted a career-bt:st time. 
Notre Dame pbced its five scoring runners in the top 23 at this meet. This consistency enabled the Irish to overcome Southeast Mis­souri State, which had three runners in the top six. 
Two weeks later, Notre Dame defeated Purdue and Indiana in the Indiana Intercolleg~iate Meet by scoring only 36 points. Cannon ran to a great second-place finish, but Garrett and Courtney led the Irish to victory by passing three Purdue run­ners at the four-mile mark and staying ahead until the finish. Again, the Irish placed all five scoring run­ners in the top 15, and all seven run­ners finished in the top 24. 

Next, Notre Dame won the Midwestern City Conference Cham­pionships, accumul~Lting only 21 . points. Cannon won the individual title, while the five Irish scoring run­ners finished in the top seven. In fact, the Irish were allowed to enter extra men and their top 11 placed in the top 18 overall. 
The Irish haven't qualified for the 
NCAA's during Piane's ten-year 

career at Notre Dame. Last year, if 
each Irish runner had finished 30 
meters better, Notrt: Dame would 
have qualified. This could well be 
the year that Notre Dame qualifies 
for the chance to do what the 1957 
Irish team did: win the NCAA Cross-
Country National Championship. 
greatly increased. Lantz, neverthe­
less, takes nothing away from the 
veteran's ability to start, or just fill in 
anywhere as ifhe were starting. 
"He can go in and play any of the 
positions," said Lantz. "He under­
stands the game -it's logical to him, 
so he can go in and play wherever 
we need him to play. He gives us 
depth because he can play on either 
side, and he's the only one that I 
really ask to do that." 
Dingens, who carries a 3.70 grade point average, earned a perfect 4.0 last spring. The junior, who led Brot­her Rice High School in Birming­ham, Mich., to a 27-3 record in the three years he played there, has a freshman brother, Matt, on the Notre Dame squad, also. --B~icilly, Dingens enjoys playing 
on the right side ofthe line where he 
can follow the play and make some 
good hits. 
"I like the right side because that's 
where I played last year and most of 
my career," said Dingens. "What I 
like doing the best is playing football 
after the initial hit and after you read 
what the offense is doing... just get­
ting to the ball and making some 
plays." 
Other than being a key figure to 
the defensive front, Dingens also is 
pleased and impressed with his 
coaches. Although many of the 
defenses used are complicated, he 
believes in the people dictating the 
orders. 
"(Defensive coordinator Andy 
Christoff) is doing a fine job," Din­gens said. "He likes a very compl­icated defense where how we play depends upon the formations that the offense comes into. We will of­ten call the defense and then make several checks. At first, that was hard .fur us to handle because we weren't 
used to it to such an extent, but now we're getting used to it. 
"For Coach Lantz, I have a lot of respect. I think that he is excellent at his position, and I really admire him. He's got a personality and knowl­edge that I like." 
For the rest of this season, Din­gens still maintains hopes of a bowl bid, and is confident that he will con­tinue to play a great deal and be a strong contributor to the total Irish effort. Against Penn State, he believes that Notre-Dame will have a score to settle. 
"The key to beating Penn State ob­viously will be to go out there and play an intense game with emotion and without some of the dumb mistakes that have plagued us," said Dingens. "I think that we've got to go out and play like we did against LSU. It seems like we've outplayed them each of the last two years and still got beat. We're ready to finally win one against them, to do more than justpush them all over the field. 
"(Overall) I don't think there's been anything that has really sparked us, except that on some weeks the team really decides to jell and play together, while on other weeks, we seem more disoriented. We've got to keep that unity to keep winning, and if we don't, we'll be in trouble." 
After finishing second on the squad last year in tackles for a Joss, with five, the junior has already had three this year, including a sack for a 10-yard loss in the Navy game. Aiming to make a significant contri­bution in each game that he plays in, the Arts and Letters Pre-Professional major will use up his final year of eligibility next year, and hopes to go on to medical school to study or­thopedic surgery. 
riiiiiiiiiOIIIIOIIIOHIIIOOIIIIIIIOIIOIIIIIIIIOIIIIIIIIOIOIIOIOIIOIIIIOIIIIIIIOIIIIIIIIIOII1j 
Coming Soon . 1 
from San Francisco 


THE BOBS 
Dec 1, Saturday 
at... 


£)tm31J®!t 
§~ 

ILoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooiooooouoooooooooootooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooootoiiiiiiiiiiJ 


Ffee Tailgate Parties-Every Sat. 11 -5 FREE Munchies 
Watch the game on our SateiiHe Big Screen T.V. 

MR. D's 
1516 N. Ironwood South Bend 233-7747 

lbe Observer/Lev Cbapdsky 
junior Greg Dingens, shown here in action earlier this season againstPurdue,plays a dual rolefor the Notre Damefootball team. Dingens can start at either of the defensive tackle spots or spell Wally Kleine at right tackle. Michael]. Chmielprofiles Dingens at left. 

NEED A JOB? 
the S.A.B. is now hiring: 
in search ofa DRIVER 
• 
must be financial aid approved 

•stop 
by SAB offices for more info-2nd Floor LaFortune 



SMC Performing Arts Series is proud to present 
THE NATIONAL SHAKESPEARE COMPANY 
IN 
The Two Gentlemen ofVerona 
OLoughlin Auditorium Friday, November 9 
800pm 
Ticket Information 284-4626 


~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ­
The Observer Friday, November 9, 1984 -page 13 




McCann 
continuedfrom pa!{e 16 
on them than in the past and we have 
higher expectations of them. 
"My goal this year is to get the maximum out ofour material, which I do not think has been done in the past. I do not know what their poten­tial is yet, but there is no doubt in my mind that we will get the maximum out of them." 
In addition to personnel changes, the Irish are upgrading their schedule to include a higher level of competition. Although a gradual process, the upgrade should permit Notre Dame to wrestle a predominantly top-20 schedule within three to four years. Nebraska is on tap this season, Michigan and Michigan State will be added next year, and Wisconsin w"l be picked up the following seaso~a. 
"In order for us to achieve our goals, one ofwhich is to be in the top 20, we must have the competition," commented McCann. "To be realis­tic, we are not in that league right no.w, but the future is going to be dif­ferent. I will guarantee it." 
In an attempt to live up to his words, McCann has been working the wrestlers since the first week in Srptember, and to this point in time he is basically happy with their prog­ress. 
"We had an excellent preseason; we were pleased. Our main concern now is that they understand our phi­losophy and what we are trying to teach," he stated. "They are working extremely hard, and there is not any doubt in my mind that as the year progresses we will see improve­ment." 
Competing with Notre Dame and Michigan State this weekend will be Indiana State, Eastern Illinois, Nor­thern Michigan, Central Michigan, Eastern Michigan, Ferris State and Division III champion Brockport State. The Spartans and the Sycamores are favoured for team honors as they have maintained a virtual monopoly on the team cham­pionship during the tournament's eight-year history. 
Having earned the right to com­pete this weekend in the 118-lb. class is Fleming, while at 126 pounds Crown currently is in the first spot. 
Freshman Ron Wisniewski won a 
starting birth in the 134-lb. class, and 
at 142 pounds senior Don Heintzel­
man will be starting his fourth var­
sity season for the Irish. 
Battling at 150 pounds will be 
junior Luke DiSabato, while fresh­
man Ken Kasler gets his first varsity 
experience in the 1 58-lb. class. 
At 167 pounds, sophomore Tom Ryan will be the number-one man, and senior captain Phil Baty gets the call at 177 pounds. 
Junior John Krug will do the honors in the 190-lb. class, but, due to injury and lack of personnel, the Irish will forfeit in the Unlimited class. 
"Everyone is working pretty hard, so the team attitude is positive and we are in the right frame of mind for this tournament," commented Baty. "Hopefully some good things will happen this year, but we will see this weekend." 
"It is a pretty tough tournament for us this early," added McCann, "but they are working their tails off, and they will be ready." 
The MSU Invite will allow 
McCann to see how well his teach­
ing has taken effect. Although he 
looks to this weekend more for ex­
perience than for wins or losses, he 
feels that the aggressive style which 
he advocates together with the 
squad's desire to win could indeed 
provide for some surprises. 
Action begins tonight at 7:30 and continues tomorrow at I 0 a.m. 

Two wins under belt 


Irish travel to Michigan-Dearborn 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
DEARBORN, Mich.· After a suc­cessful season debut on its home ice, the Notre Dame hockey team takes to the road tonight and tomorrow to take on the Wolves of the University of Michigan-Dearborn. 
Two convincing wins, 8-2 and 10­3, over Penn State in the first series of the 1984-85 season, provide a sound foundation for the Irish to build on as the schedule will only get tougher in the weeks to come. Dearborn should be the season's first big challenge for Notre Dame. 
Last season Dearborn compiled only an 18-20-0 record, but sported an impressive 11-4 mark on its home ice. Notre Dame handed the Wolves two of those four losses as it swept Dearborn, 6-4 and 4-3, in a series played over Thanksgiving weekend. The two teams then split their series at Notre Dame in late February. Dearborn took the first game, 4-3, with the Irish bouncing back the second night to win, 7-4. 
Dearborn has played its last five games on the road and is anxious to return to the friendly confines ofits home arena. With only a 2-4 record to show for their efforts, the Wolves are eager to show their home fans that they are a better team than their early play would indicate. 
Splits with two Central Collegiate 
Bring back Sonmor 
Hockey Association teams for Dear­born is a definite sign for the Irish that they will have their hands full this weekend. The Wolves have beaten Miami of Ohio and Ferris State by 5-4 and 5·2 scores, respectively. Earlier this year, Ferris swept a series from defending NCAA champion Bowling Green on the Fal­cons' home ice. 
"Dearborn will be a much better 
team than we saw in Penn State," 
said Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith. 
"We're expecting more quickness 
from them. And because it's the first 
road series of the season, it will be a 
real challenge for us." 
This weekend the Irish hope to cut down on the number of penalties they receive each game. In last weekend's two contests, Notre Dame was whistled for 34 infrac­tions. 
"Dearborn will be a lot tougher team than Penn State, so we'll have to cut down on mistakes like penalties," said junior Jeff Badalich. "Things like that could really hurt against a better team." 
Four of Notre Dame's six fresh­men picked up their first goals for the Irish last weekend, but tonight will mark their first journey from home. Smith is anxious to see how they meet this new challenge. 
"All six did a much better job than I had hoped for in their first col­legiate series," said Smith. "A key in any sport and the mark of a real ath· lete is how they can do away from the friendly confines." 
Co-captains Brent Chapman and Bob Thebeau led the Irish against Penn State as each registered a three-goal hat trick. Chapman did it in the opener and Thebeau dupl­icated the feat the following eve­ning. Steve Ely and Tim Reilly also turned in solid performances and are being counted on again for their support. 
In the goaltending department, sophomore Tim Lukenda, who earned his first victory last Friday in the season opener, will be in the net tonight. Senior AI Haverkamp, the winner in Saturday's contest, most likely will get the call tomorrow. 
The injury column contained its share of names after last Friday's game, but both Badalich and Rob Ricci, who were forced to miss Sat­urday's game with shoulder and thigh injuries, respectively, will be back in the line-up this weekend. Tom Parent separated his shoulder on Saturday and will be out ofaction for four to six weeks. Freshman Mark Anquillare will move up and center the third line in Parent's place. 
The Irish are once again ready to play, and with Dearborn marking the season's first big test as well as the first road trip, the team is anxious to see if it can maintain its perfect record. 



North Stars fire Mahoney as coach 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. · The Minnesota North Stars, mired in last place in the National Hockey League's Norris Division, fired Coach Bill Mahoney yesterday and replaced him with Glen Sonmor, their most successful coach before he quit inJanuary, 1983. 
"It makes me feel good," Sonmor said at a' news conference. "I've regained the enthusiasm and zest that I had lost when I stepped down." 
The change was announced by Lou Nanne, general manager and an­other former North Stars coach. Nanne said Mahoney, who steered the team to the division title last season, was hard-working and in­tense and had given a great deal of himselfto the club. 
"But we all know it's part of the 
game," Nanne said of the switch. 
Mahoney, he said, "got behind the eight-ball" early this season when several players were out with injur­ies. The general manager said player enthusiasm drops when a team is losing. 
Mahoney, who waas not at the news conference, told a reporter af. terwards, ''I'm prepared to accept the verdict of my actions. lbere really were some unfortunate hap­penings this fall that led to what hap­pened. We had some injuries, and 

THE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA 







COMPANY 

* 
Economically Priced to fit your budget. 

* 
Conveniently Located to service all areas of campus. 

* 
Made Fresh here on campus. 

* 
Assortment of Good Toppings to choose from. 


THE HUDDLE 239-7157 (4:00 -12:30 a.m.) 
OAK ROOM CAFE 239-7518 (9 • 1 a.m. Sun· Thurs.) 
(9 • 2 a.m. Fri-Sat) 
*Pick up or Delivery available. 
MENU Leprechaun Special Pizza $9.00 Taco Pizza ............... 7.80 Cheese Pizza............. 5.80 Pizza Toppings .......... 1.00 
Pepperoni Sausage 
Mushrooms Chopped Ham 
Green Peppers Onions 
Black Olives Ground Beef 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
* *Special Offers* * 
With every pizza pur­chased, you will receive a 50' coupon toward your next pizza. 
With your fifth pizza pur­chase, you will receive a free "Leprechaun Pizza" T-shirt. (Save your receipts!) 
we had some poor play. 
"I did feel the situation was begin­
ning to come under control. But that 
was my view, a view not shared by 
others in the organization." 
Sonmor coached the team for 
four-and-a-half seasons, beginning in 
November, 1978 and continuing un­
til he left in January, 1983, citing 
health reasons. He said at the news 
conference that he had since been 
dealing with alcoholism, was proud 
of what he had accomplished in that 
respect and felt confident he can 
handle coaching again. 
While the owners had not demanded a change or told him what to do, Nanne said they are astute businessmen and don't want to lose a lot of money. Attendance waned recently while the team played eight straight games without a victory, and some fans departed well before the games were over. 
Sonmor, 56, coached 348 North Stars games, more than any coach in the club's history. His teams won 152 games, lost 125 and tied 71 for a percentage of .539. His 1980-81 squad was the only Minnesota team to play in the Stanley Cup Finals. The following year, he coached the Stars to their first division championship. 
Sonmor said one of his goals will be to put more stress on the strengths, "the positive side," of players. 
All the New DIRECT SALE COMICS now available 

EVERY FRIDAY 
12:00NOON 
Also, 1,OOO's ot bock issues' 
MICOMIX STORE 
1346 Mishawaka Ave. 
open 
7daysaweek phone: 
11 :00am-9:00pm 234-i038 

The Observe1r Friday, November 9, 1984-page 14 
Rowing club grows out of huntble start in 1965 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
Unless one gets up with the birds and the Notre Dame campus groundskeepers in the morning, he may not know mu•:h about the Notre Dame Rowing Club. This is because while most students are sleeping soundly at sunrise, the· members of the rowing club, or "crew" as it is commonly termed, are running two miles to St. Joseph's River to begin a grueling two-hour practice. 
Yet it is not so much the discipline of the members which makes this club sport unique, but rather the efficiency with which the complex organization ofthe club runs and the steady improvement of the team from humble beginnings to national competitiveness. 
In fact, in many ways the success of the rowing club correlates di­rectly with the degree of its organi­zation. Because of tht: fact that crew is the largest club sport at Notre Dame, with close to 125 members and a budget of ne~.rly $40,000 a year, it is especially difficult to main­tain smooth operation and to keep everyone rowing. Fo1r this reason, a large organization has evolved, con­sistingofa team captain, a club presi­dent, two operational vice-presidents to handle transpor­tation, one vice-president for alumni relations, two secretaries to schedule meets and a treasurer. 
As for team organization, there are four basic divisions. The main branch is men's varsi1ty, which now consists of 24 men, but which will be expanded in the spring. The wo­men's varsity, which includes Saint Mary's rowers, has 10 women, but also will be expanded for the spring season. 
The bulk of the club lies in the men's and women's novice divi­sions, with roughly 60 men and 40 women, respectively. While the novice divisions do practice with the varsity, they gen•~rally compete in separate races. 
The intricate struclture ofthe club was necessitated by the increasingly large participation in crew. However, it has not always been this way. 
In 1965, the Notrt: Dame Rowing Club was formed by a dozen or so men who hitchhiked to races be­cause they had no money to pay for group transportation. In the 1970's, it continued to grow in number, and this decade has seen the club make its greatest advancements: participa­tion by over 100 rowers and the construction of a brand new S40,000 boat house on St. Joseph's River. 
With these improvements in the club, the product on the water has similiarly excelled. While in the past years the team has not performed on a highly competitive level, this year things began to change. 
Over an autumn "head season" 

which sponsors longer three-mile 
races, the men's varsity competed in 

four regattas, performing well in 
each of them. The most gratifying 

showing was at a regatta in Boston 
earlier in the season, where the Irish 

posted an 18th-place finish in a field 
of40 teams. 
In that race, only one minute 

separated the first place finisher 
from the Notre Dame squad. As it 
was, the time set a new Notre Dame 
Rowing Club record. It also inspired 
the team to aim for even loftier 
things. 

"Our goal for the fall was to break the record time and we accom­plished that," said men's team cap­tain John Younger. "We are getting faster and faster. We hope that within three years we will be at the caliber ofHarvard and Yale. 
"Going mto this tall, we were very serious about it. We're getting much better prepared because we're com­peting so strongly this fall." 
The Irish rowers also finished first in the Des Moines International Regatta, and proved to be a for­midable opponent in their two other meets, the Head of Tennessee Regatta and the Head of Schuylkill Regatta in Philadelphia. 
As-for the women's crew and the novice teams, their competition has been less frequent, although equally impressive. The women won an event at the Head of Tennessee Regatta, while the novice crews per­formed well against the University of Michigan. Next weekend the novice crew will travel to Philadelphia for a 1500-meter regatta. 
"We have a great deal of talent coming up through the novice, espe­cially the freshmen," Younger said. "They will get a chance at Philadel­phia to see their competition for the future." 
In the spring, the entire club will travel to Texas over break to train for the new season. There, it also will compete at the Head of Texas Regatta before returning to Notre Dame for its first home regatta on St. Joe River. 
To raise money for such ventures and to pay for the incredibly expen­sive "shells" and boathouses, the rowing club sponsors many fundraisers throughout the year. This weekend the club is sponsoring an "Ergothon," where team mem­bers will work in half-hour shifts for fifty hours on the Ergometer, a spe­cial, simulated rowing machine. 
B ~dl ~ J.'kocemahinq: Mark Twain Himself! On 

lfJlB l PEICI 
"I wonder if Cod inv('nted the human being because of disappointment in thl• monkey." 
Mark Twain 

SUNIDAV, NOVEMBER II 8:00pm Memorial Library Auditorium 
University of Notre Dame -Free admission 
!;P\IS!'.IlkF!l IIY: fell.! F.t.f. 1\f ART!' .1. lETTF.RS 
DEPAitntES'T OF !'ft.'SIC/CilTH -ST. MARY'S llf.I'Ail'n"IESTilffSC.LISH 
:lf.PARnt£!1-"T (lf C.O\'ERNMEh"T 

ilf.I'AR'NE)oi flF ESC.liSH-ST. ~IIY'S 
FRESIMI.S H:AJt PRl'lf.llAM !tll.l.f.C.EtlfF.Sr.ISF.f:k!Sf. 
DEPARn1E!<o'T OF A!1F.RICA!<o STI'l>IE5 c!lU.EC:r. nr III:SISESS An!11SISTII.ATIOS 
DEPARntE!<o"T Clf PHII.OSClPH,. (WI'It"SI(ATIPS & THF.ATIIE OEPAJtNF.!<o"T 
llEPARntf.!lo'T OF 5(1( IOI.OC:Y 
~n·on., wvu~"!1E!I'T 
STI']I[),j ACT!\'ITIES IIIlARD 

I~ 1'1 1\IA&llRATitlS lo'ITH THE CE!Io"TER F\llt Sf(" !AI. CflSCERSS 
''You madr our da11, cu Marie TIDain did III.. Andi/Ofl did It t•r aamr wau ht did: bumaJcinglht auditncr lhinkt It tokt• a Dtrll original ptrao.'Z to imitalt a multr •• lilt matltr would imitatt himJtll, and uou do it UJtiL '' Bill Moyers 
"Eza~llll tht Nmr •altu. batJ;JDooth po/Wcal fOiptlllaat lilt 1Gf1t ofB1111nibaL .'tlo. prtat:htd." 
Newaweek 

t'"~J. ..t{~.~~~!.)':l,~·!..-~.~·~: ,,·!:~.. :•}'~~-) ~. ... ',, ..,...~\'~ •/•..... /'...""·~· 4' ,'c'l.""·!! )tj-.\.•i ~ / / .•..t ;;, ~ 
< • 

The Notre Dame Rowing Club, shown here prac­ticing on St. joseph's River, bas come a long way since its bumble beginning in 1965. Today, the club boasts over 100 members and a new $40,000 boathouse. Marty Burns tells the story of Notre Dame's largest club sport at left. 

SAVE WITH PIZZA HUT® SPECIAl.DELIVERY 
IN SOUTH BENDAND MISHAWAKA 
"And delivery is FREE!" Get the great taste of Pizza Hut® pizza delivered right to your door! Call the number shown above for Pizza Hut® Special Delivery to your area. 
FRESH! HOT! FltST! 
Hours: 4:00pm • 12M, Sun. • Thurs. 4:00pm •2:00am, Fri_ • Sat. 
Limited Delivery Area. Our drivers carry no more than $20.





r--------­
1 $30FF I anvLarge Pizza
I~~!',!f.~GB~~~':~a! 
I 
pat1icipa6ng Pizza Hut" Special Delivery units. Not valid for dine-in or carryout, or in combination with any other Pizza Hur' offer Limited Delivery Area. Offer good only on regular menu prices through 
I CALL: 232-2499 
•; : ;·:'. ~~'.;' ,..• ·~-~ ~ ,,: ; 
-~-------,-----­
l 
l 
I 
j 
I



~~~C3L~-----------------------------------------F-ri_d.ay_,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_9_,_19•8•4--•p•a•g•e-1 j J 
..5 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
5(1([HIS t.lfU1/F
M/OIA£L, )00}1; fj()T 70 TAl-K lD HIM 1 J J, ZONI< 
ALLH& a615!.113 J.J., 1 MJ(r PfJT {}P WITH Jll.iTNEalS 
AROIJNPANI?fAr' f71; Pl'AI.LY THINKITHIS 1/NYf.I}N(j{;J? I A UT'fle$E 
LIKe LIVIN6 WITHA >W'!e 0'18'.­

I 1Et'NA6& UACTING,
: , TIMe T()SO!a" 

• HIS Uft (XJT. 



Tank McNamara jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 




Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
NO 1/lO NOT 11/INK ~ .JIJ5i 1/IWJ/Nf HIM ~1611r 
5I(JI)U1 t.£r 6/U 1/£ CAr i\I?W,, 5/rT/N& ARr!WPIN '1/llf W11/1111! KIIJIIUSHUS~ A PINK 7UN/C,,M/l/!IM51ff(l., I 1/1/NK W€ 51/()1/1.0 CilllNnN6 /NCOII/PRfJHENS18LY., RE5cvt TIE ume
Feu.ow, 
11-9 

• Wf?lriN& /JY 60(1fJinN6 50Y CAKeS. 
CHECKS 10 We'VE &01 
W€AVIN6 /((1(75 ,, 

Til€ "81/AGWAII" W r<eSCI£ FIIOM ovr< 111Ar f'OOK CAMPAibN f'>OY, 
fiJNP... I 


42 Ode 47 Front· 52 Poet Ogden 56 Black, 

43 Day times: runner 53 Egyptian poetically abbr. 49 Luxury queen, for 57 Raines of ACROSS 40 -Nazlmova 3 Son of 23 Writer vessel short films 1 Watson's 41 ODE Jacob Hunter 45 Prepare 51 Gershwin 58 Harvest sport 4 Burdick 25 Adjust leftovers and Levin 54 Knowledge 61 Mauna-
The Daily Crossword 
42 Nero or 5 Questions novel 27 Military
Falk 

5 Make topper
43 Steve or 9 Chicago Woody 
request 
28 Captured
6 Knight's

section 44 Marilyn 
29 Tossed
address

13 Eye part of films 
31 Ms. Abzug 

14 Yearned 46 Radio's 
7 Be hlp to 32 Drew or
16 Raison d'­
-Jack 

8 Detach Terry
17 Birthmarks 48 First in 
9 Room for 33 Cannon counting 
error of films 
18 Validate sequence 
10 Preminger 34 -Pickens 
19 Lat. abbr. 
11 Kind of 36 Register:
50"-smile20 Young 

exam var.
be your..." salmon 

12 Mere wealth 39 Most astute
51 Little by22 Loup-garou 

15 Scorns 40 Farmer's
little

24 Fly high 
21 Ilk books
55 "Whocan 26 -Ridge refute -?" Thursday's Solution (racehorse) 59 Breathing 27 Film fame sound seeker 60 Chastise 30 Converter 62 Competent for company 63 Cruising 64 Pang 65 Fountain 34 Roundtree's drink role 66 Injection 35 Kennedy 67 Sign of portrayer sorrow 37 Actor Ron 68 Cinch 38 Veronica of films DOWN 39 Soldiers of 1 "-ho" 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. old Ire. 2 Done 
All Rights Reserved 




ND/SAB Ideas & Issues Committee presents: 
AHMADULLAH AHMADULLAH 
the former Minister of the Interior ofAfghanistan 
TOPIC: SOVIET INVASION FROM AN INSIDER'S 


Campus 
•
All Day · Symposium, Italian Renaissance Drawings, Snite Museum, Free for ND/SMC Stu­dents. 

•3:30 
p.m.· SIRD Lecture, "Workshop Conven· tions of the 'Terza Maniera,"' Edward Olszewski, Case Western Reserve University , AnocoberJ Auditorium. 

•3:30 
p.m. · Civil Engineering Seminar, "Wastewater Reclamation and Reuse," Dr. Takashi Asano, California State Water Resources Control Board, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4:20 
p.m. · Physics Colloquium, "The New In­flationary Universe," Prof. Alan Guth, M.I.T., Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•5 
· 7:30 p.m. · Musical Entertainment, Chameleon Club Opening, Cahmeleon Room, Hag· gar College Center (SMC), Sponsored by Student Activities (SMC), Free With Membership Card. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.· Film, "TheRe turn of the Pink Panther," Engineering Auditorium. 

•
7:30p.m. · Concert, Bill Gaither Trio, ACC, SS, 50 and $7.50. 

•7:30 
p.m, ·Friday Night FUm Series, "The Big Deal on Madonna Street," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. · Play, "Two Gentlemen of Verona," O'Laughlin Hall, Call 284-4626 for Tickets. 

•8:30 
p.m.· Physics Public Lecture, "Birth ofthe Cosmos," Prof. Alan Guth , Ubrary Auditorium. 

•9 
p.m. -I a.m, · French Creperie, Badin Hall 24 Hour Lounge, Sponsored by French Club, A La Carte. 

Saturday, Nov. 10 

•All 
Day · Symposium, IWian Renaissance Drawings, Snite Museum, Free for ND/SMC Stu­dents. 

•9:30 
a.m. · SIRD Lecture , "Federico Barocci," Edmund Pillsbury, Director, Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•10:30 
a.m. · SIRD Lecture, "Drawings by Rap· hael and His Students," Konrad Oberhuber, Fogg Art Museum and Professor of Fine Arts, Harvard University, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.· Film, "The Return of the Pink Panther," Engineering Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m.· Readings ofMaupassantin French, Gerard Guillaumat of the Theatre National Populaire, Lyons, France, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by Dept. of Modern & Classical Lan· guages & the Alliance Francaise, S2. 

•8 
p.m. -Second City From Chicago, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $5. 

Sunday, Nov. 11 

• 
2 p.m. -Visidng Artist Lecture Series , Selina Tridf& Robert Henry , Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. · Basketball , Notre Dame lntrasquad Charity Game, ACC Arena. 

•7 
p.m.· Senior Class Mass, Walsh Hall Chapel. 




TV Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  M0 A0 S0 H  
22  Dukes ofHazzard  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller 2  
8:00p.m.  16  "V''  
Z2  Dukes of Hazzard  
28  Benson  
34  Washington Week In Review  
8:30p.m.  28  Webster  
34  Wall Street Week  
9:00p.m.  16  Hunters  
22  Dalla  
28  Hawaiian Heat  
34  Great Performances  
10:00p.m.  16  Miami Vice  
22  Falcon Crest  

.. 
PANGl NL, • • • FOO1).'". 


SATURDAY
POINT OF VIEW 
.:C/ ~ -~· 
OPENTOALLU

Monday, November 12th 
Dancing, Food, Fun!

at 8:00pm 
~~ 

in Library Auditorium 
Friday, November 9, 1984-page 16



Sl!orts 
Irish cross-country team travels to NCAA District IV Championships 
By NICK SCHRANTZ One difference between the dis­Notre Dame was relatively un­Sports Writer trict meet and Notre Dame's previ­known on a national scale before the ous meets is that it will be only ND's year began. However, on the basis of 
The undefeated Notre Dame second meet away from its home victories in five straight meets, in­cross-country team faces heavy course. However, at their only away cluding wins over several highly­competition this weekend, as it at­meet, the Irish dominated the Mid­ranked teams, the Irish have more tempts to qualify for the NCAA Na­western City Conference Cham­than earned their own I7th-place tional Championships. The pionships held at Butler University ranking. 17th-ranked Irish travel to the Uni­in Indianapolis. Notre Dame began its season with versity of Illinois for the NCAA Dis­In addition, the District IV race is a five-team meet, which included trict IV Championships tomorrow at 10,000 meters long, a change from opposition from Ohio State and II a.m. the customary distance offive miles, Northwestern. The Irish tallied only 
District IV is the toughest in the­or 8,000 meters. Both Piane and 30 points (low score wins) to easily country, and includes the Big Ten senior Ed Willenbrink believe the defeat the second-place Buckeyes, Conference, Mid-American Confer­extra length of the course will aid who had 63 points. Collins, Cannon ence and major midwestern in­the Irish, though. and Courtney led the way by placing dependents, as well as some teams "At the Indiana Intercollegiate third, fourth and fifth, respectively. from the Missouri Valley Confer­Meet, we were behind Purdue at the ence. two-mile mark but we came back in Two weeks later at the National 
Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane the last mile to win it. This shows Catholic Meet, held at Notre Dame feels that 1I teams in the district that we have strong runners," Piane the Irish accumulated only 57 points have a legitimate chance of gaining reasons. in defeating Boston College and one of the four qualifying spots for "The 10,000-meter race will help Marquette. Notre Dame was led by nationals. There are four teams in the whole team," Willenbrink said. Courtney and Cannon, but the key the district which are ranked ahead "We've been taking longer runs in to its victory was the placing of its of Notre Dame in the latest national practice, so we all have a good dis­five scoring runners in the top I 5 coaches poll: second-ranked Wis­tance base. In fact, this extra training and all seven runners in the top 18. consin, Big Ten champion Illinois, will make us strong, if not stronger, The Irish followed with an im­
13th-ranked Michigan and 16th­at the end ofthe race." pressive victory in the prestigious ranked Miami ofOhio. The Irish squad, which has Notre Dame Invitational, besting 
Other teams expected to chal­remained the same all year, consists Michigan, Illinois State, Ohio State lenge the Irish are Ohio University, of senior co-captains Bill Courtney and 40 other teams. Cannon was the Indiana, Ohio State, Missouri Valley and Jim Tyler, senior Tim Cannon, leading Irish runner, but Wil­champion Illinois State, Purdue and senior Ed Willenbrink, junior John lenbrink helped the cause by finish-Northwestern. Magill, sophomore Mike Collins and 
"District IV is the toughest in the freshman Dan Garrett. see IRISH, page 12 country," according to Piane, "but I feel we can do extremely well. This is our best chance at making the 


Fans to get first look at 
NCAA's since I've been here ( I975). 
lbc Observer/johannes Hacker 

"We have to run the way we've Freshman Dan. Garrett will be heavily counted on tomorrow as run all year. If we do that, we .can 

Irish basketball squads 

the undefeated and 17th-ranked Notre Dame cross-country team qualify. They all don't have to run travels to the NCAA DistrictIV Championships at the University of the best races of their Jives for us to By lARRY BURKE averaged 2 5 points per game in high Illinois. Nick Scbrantzpreviews the meet at right. make it; they just have to do what Sports Writer school, is a speedster who should ac­
they've done all year." celerate the Irish offense this season. Notre Dame fans can get their first Phelps is quick to a(jmit that RiversExcitement for future look at the Irish men's and women's should be the big gun in 
Notre basketball teams in action this Sun­Dame's backcourt this season. day night, as the Blues face the Golds Rivers will play for the Gold on in the annual intrasquad games at Sunday, joined in the backcourt by


Wrf~stling team opens new season 
the ACC. The women's game will tip sophomore Scott Hicks. The . By MARK B. JOHNSON pionships, was a member of the "Without the people we have off at 6:30p.m., with the men's game frontcourt for the Gold will consist Saint Mary's Sports Editor 1980 U.S. Olympic team, earned a now, there is no future," he ac­to follow at about 7:30p.m. of junior tri-captains Jim Dolan and 1980 NCAA championship and was knowledged. Besides the fans, it is also the Ken Barlow, along with sophomore 
"The excitement is the future," named as an all-American three Indeed, the upperclassmen form coaches who will be getting a good John Bowen. Junior tri-captain Tim stated a confident Fran McCann, times while at Cal State-Bakersfield. the nucleus of this year's squad, and look at their teams on Sunday. Both Kempton will miss the game with a Notre Dame's new head wrestling "John is renowned throughout its ability to adapt quickly to a com­men's coach Digger Phelps and wo­leg injury. Junior Joseph Price will coach. "I like to think that we are the country as a great technician and pletely new program has meant men's coach Mary DiStanislao will help out the Gold at both the guard going to surprise some people." teacher," said McCann of his assis­nothing but improvement. be watching closely to see how cer­and forward spots. 
McCann's optimism is echoed tant. "He is one of the best, and by "We are starting fresh and new, tain players, particularly the fresh­The Blue features Phelps' three throughout the ranks of his team, hiring him, Notre Dame puts the and the program is going to be al­men, perform. other freshmen. In the frontcourt and, apparently, wi'th good reason. word out that it is serious about together different in the next few For Phelps that means watching will be first-year men Matt Beeuw­Tonight marks the dawning ofa new wrestling." years," said McCann. "Things have Dave Rivers, the six-foot freshman saert and Gary Voce. The 6-6 Bt"euw­era for the Irish as McCann leads his Thus far, McCann is very pleased changed; there is a greater demand point guard from St. Anthony's High saert, .mother Parade prep up-and-coming squad into East Lan­with the University's wholehearted School in Jersey City, N.J. Rivers, a All-America pick, averaged IS points sing, Mich., for the vc:ry competitive, support, and it was in part this sup­see McCANN, pa2e 13 Parade prep All-American who and 10 rebounds per game for M~ter season-opening Michigan State Invi­port that lured him from Indiana Dei High School in Long Beach, tational. State to accept the challenge of Calif. Voce, who stands at 6-9, "We are a much improved team, steering the Irish program in what averaged 20 points and 10 rebounds and we are really looking forward to he terms "a new direction," a win­for Tolentine High School in this season," commented junior Eric ning direction. Corona, N.Y. Joining Beeuwsaert Crown. With this new direction comes a and Voce in the Blue frontcourt is 
Ifcommitment is a key to success, new sense of team pride, and the sophomore Donald Royal. the 1984 season is well on its way to wrestlers' enthusiasm and attitude In the Blue backcourt is freshman eclipsing all previous standards by reflects this. sharpshooter Jeff Peters, a product which to measure it. The signing of "We are very optimistic about the of Whitko High School in Columbia McCann and assistant John Azevedo season because of the way coaches City, Ind., where he averaged 28 is proof of the Univt:rsity's renewed McCann and Azevedo are running points per game last year. Peters, commitment to create and support a the program," commented sopho­who will be joined at guard for the bonafide wrestling program. more Greg Fleming, who was named Blue by seniors Dan Duff and walk­
"We are awfully excited to have 'Outstanding Wrestler' last season. on Casey Newell, is a zone-buster 
someone ofhis caliber to handle our "The attitude of the team as a whole who Phelps hopes will fill a void for program," said Notn~ Dame athletic has improved and it is getting closer the Irish this season. director Gene Corrigan of McCann. to that which a team should have." "We've simply got to become a 
During his eight-year tenure at Although Notre Dame has added better outside shooting team," says Indiana State, McCann produced an only three recruits to last season's Phelps. "We knew that would be our impressive 76-48-:1 dual meet 14-6 squad, McCann expects the weakness last season, and that's ex­record, and three of his last four Irish to rank among the top ten in actly the way it worked out. If we teams finished among the nation's recruiting by next season since the want to keep defenses from collaps­top 20. word of Notre Dame's rapidly im­ing on Kempton, Barlow and Dolan, "Fran McCann is responsible for proving program is spreading. we've got to prove we can shoot it 
the national recognition Indiana "We are looking at some of the from 18 feet." State has gained the last few years," best recruits in the country, bar Because of the loss of last year's said Corrigan. "We are hopeful he none," he stated, "and I am really leading scorer Tom Sluby, Phelps es­
can do the same thing for Notre confident that we are going to get pecially hopes to see solid perfor­
.. 
Dame." them." mances Sunday from Rivers and 




Azevedo is also a valuable addi­Although always looking toward 
The Notre Dame hockey team, 2-0 aftera sweep ofPenn State last Peters, as well as from the veterans ­

tion to the Irish as he brings a wealth the future, McCann stresses the im­Hicks, Price and Duff. Senior point
weekend at the ACC, travels to the University of Michigan­

of experience to the program. He portance of his upperclassmen and 
Dearborn for games tonight and tomorrow. Ed Domanskyhas placed third in the world cham-of the role they play in the program. previews the series on page 13. see BASKETBALL, page 11 






