An Tostal page3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 132 tht· indt:pt:m.knl ~llldt:nl nt:w~papl-r ~l·n·ing 1101n damt: and ...ainl mary·.., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2 5, 1984 


Large-scale earthquake jolts parts of California; no injuries reported 
Associated Press crews were sent to inspect the dam restaurant atop a seven-storv build­
and the upstream gates were closed. ing in San Jose. "It just went on and SAN FRANCISCO -A powerful The worst California earthquake on and on." earthquake jolted a wide area of in recent years was the May 2, 1983, Sht· said wine bottles toppled Northern California and parts of quake that devastated the Central from shelves and a small tree fell Nevada yesterday, collapsing California town of Coalinga. That over on a diner. houses, swaying skycrapers and for­registered 6. 7 on the Richter scale The quake was felt in lnyo. cing the evacuation of some build­and destroyed 90 percent of the Sacramento, Mono, Sonoma and ings. There were no immediate downtown business district. Stanislaus counties, among others, reports of injury. In yesterday's quake, San Fran­and reports from newspapers and 
The earthquake hit at about I:15 cisco police reported shattered glass police departments said the ground 
p.m. and was centered I 2 miles east fell from windows in the Western shook as far south as San Luis of San Jose. It was given a prelimi­Merchandise Mart, but no injuries Obispo, 250 miles south ofSan Fran­nary Richter reading of 6.0 by the were reported. cisco and in western Nevada. United States Geological Survey, In San Jose, City Hall and the In Martinez, about 35 miles east of while the State Office of Emergency county administration building San Francisco, Nel Veder said, Services gave it a reading of5.8. were evacuated after walls cracked. "Cupboads rattled, chandeliers 
"WtS have a preliminary reading of Elevators in those buildings stopped swayed. It was a long rolling quake 
6.0 on the Richter scale with an automatically and about a dozen of about 20 seconds duration." She epicenter of 20 kilometers (about people were trapped inside, officials said it was the strongest earthquake 12 miles) east of San Jose on the said. she has felt in at least I 5 years. Calaveras Fault," said Edna King, Tall buildings trembled in San Reports on the quake, at l: I 5 p.m. public information officer for the Francisco for 20 to 30 seconds, and PST, came in from as far south as USGS in Menlo Park. there were reports of objects Stanford, 35 miles to the south, and 
Five or six houses, apparently un­knocked from shelves and walls. Fresno, 200 miles to the southeast of occupied, collapsed in Monterey At Mission San Juan Bautista near San Francisco. In Sacramento, about County about three miles east of Hollister, 100 miles south of San 75 miles to the east, it was felt slight­Morgan Hill, according to the state Francisco, some plaster fell from the ly. Most people described the quake Division ofForestry. ceiling of the historic mission, ao; one or two rolling shakes. 
The state Department of Water according to Father Felix. The In San Francisco, the skyscraper Resources said there was a crack in structure was not damaged. housing the AP bureau swayed and the pavement atop Anderson Dam "It was the worst," said Mary trembled for close to 20 to 30 five miles east of San Jose. Ground Guglielmo, owner of the Plateau 7 seconds. 

Families crumbling, says Schlafly 
Special to The Observer supporters, opponents and the divorce rate," she said. curious filled a law school clao;sroom Schlally saved her bigest 
The American family structure is to hear the attorney and author. broadsides for the Equal Rights being undermined by a broad array Schlafly, founder ofStop ERA, said Amendment, however. oflegal and social challenges, Phyllis the concept ofthe husband as bread "The ERA is a great attack on the Schlafly, an outspoken critic of the winner and wife" as homemaker was family. It takes away or makes un­Equal Rights Amendment, said yes­"one of the major keys to the high constitutional the legal rights of terday. prosperity and standard ofliving we wives and gives a whole raft ofrights 
In a wide-ranging talk at the Law have in this country." to homosexuals," she said. School, Schlafly took on feminists, Listeners who came expecting While some in the .:rowd mut­divorce laws and the nation's educa­controversy weren't disappointed. tered comments like "Give me a tional system. "I can understand that not all break," others nodded their heads in 
An overflow crowd of Schlafly's women want to get married and ao;sent. raise children," she said, adding Schlafly also said there was a "that leaves more men for the "clear connection" between ERA 
women who do want to get and abortion. married." "The ERA will be used to mandate Of the leaders of the feminist state tax funds to pay for abortions," 

Sit-in demonstration at LaFortune 
movement, she noted "Almost all of she said, explaining that govern­
them don't have children or don't ment funding of abortions would be By KEirn HARRISON,JR. A handout explaining the sit-in numbers, we won't accomplish any­have husbands." guaranteed under the ERA to avoid SeniorStaffReporter states, 'We must emphasize our dis­thing." "They don't have their act togeth­charges of medical discrimination 
pleasure with the paternalistic Dean of Students James Roemer er," she added, to audible groans against women. An all-night sit-in demonstration policy-making of the administra­also spoke at the HPC meeting. He from several in the audience. She noted that when a state ver­will take place tomorrow in tion." responded to several amendments During her 45-minute talk, Schlaf­sion of the ERA was written in Wis­
LaFortune Student Center, and the One ofthe goals ofthe demonstra­the HPC has proposed to the alcohol ly also took on the country's legal consin, excluding abortion funding candlelight vigil protesting the new tion, according to the handout, is to directive. system. and homosexual rights, the _National alcohol policy has been cancelled, "refocus the protest away from al­"Easy divorce laws are probably 

organized to protest alcohol policy 

see HPC, page 4 see SCHLAFL Y, page 4
according to former Keenan Hall cohol specifically and toward the the number one cause of the high PresidentJim Wolfe. problems oflife on campus." The sit-in demonstration, which "Forms of responsible protest will begin at 11 p.m., is not beingor­must be continued before we go 

Hickey recuperating from heart attack
ganized by any student government back to the normal channels ofcom­body. "There is a problem with munication that student govern­having student government or­ment must take," said Wolfe, who By SARAH HAMll.TON private room within a day or two. ganize all of the protests, because spoke at the HPC meeting. "We've News Editor Concerning her husband's health they run into trouble with the ad­used those channels (student Ann Hickey said, ''I'm very con­ministration," explained Wolfe, one government) before, and the ad­William Hickey, director of Notre tented. He is improving." Athey ofthe organizers ofthe sit-in. ministration has not been Dame Food Services, experienced a expressed similar optimism-"Ifhe 
The cancellation of the responsive," he added. "comfortable day" yesterday in the could just learn to relax .... He's a -candlelight vigil was cited as an ex­Several hall presidents expressed coronary care unit of Saint Joseph's hard worker." ample of the problems that face stu­support for the sit-in protest. "I think Medical Center in South Bend Unofficially, Athey said Hickey dent government. "It seems that the that it's a kind of eloquent way of following a heart attack he suffered might be able to return to work in administration considered the vigil a stating our basic protest," said Saturday. four to eight weeks. In Hickey's ab­fire hazard," said Hall Presidents' Howard. "They say we don't use Late Saturday, Hickey was placed sence Athey, assistant director since Council Chairman Chris Tayback. Lafortune, and we will be saying in the intensive care unit of Saint 1980, is assuming his administrative 
Keenan President Kevin Howard that the only thing Lafortune is good Joseph's Medical Center because he responsibilities. Athey does not for­added, "Brian Callaghan has told me for is this demonstration." suffered what Assistant Director of sec any major problems while Hick­that a permit is required for any Wolfe, however, stressed the im­Food Services Ronald Athey said was ey is away. Most of the work now protest, and that the University portance of student body participa­neither a mild nor a "real severe" centers around catering the com­would not let student government tion. "This is a good alternative to heart attack. Hickey was moved to mencement exercises. If a problem have a permit for the Friday after­the candlelight vigil, which won't the coronary care unit yesterday. does arise, "any decisions made ... noon rally unless the Friday night happen," he said. "But student sup­Two sources close to Hickey's fami­would parallel his (Hickey's)," said vigil was cancelled." port is essential. lf we don't ~et the ly said he could he moved to a Athey. 


The Observer Wednesday, April 2 5, 1984 -page 2 
fj 
I
I 


In Brie£ .. · 
TheDistinguishedPaperAwardofthe Mid­
west Business Administration Association has been awarded to two 
Notre: l>amt: professors of business administration. Dr. William 
Eagan, associate prokssor, and Dr. Richard J. Hunter, assistant 
professor ofmanagement, recdved tht· award at the annual meeting, 
attt·mlc:d in Chicago this year by I,000 academicians from 3S states and sevnal foreign countries. Their paper on business law. "Tender Offers, the Williams Act, Shareholders' Rights and Officers' Respon­sibility," was judged best in the competition sponsored by Richard 1>. Irwin, Inc. and Business Publications. -The Obsen1er 
Associate Professor ofHistory Dr. John H. 
Van Engen recently received a fellowship from theJohn Simon Gug­genheim Memorial Foundation for his proposed study of lawyers, pastors, and theologians in the twelfth century. Van Engen became a candidate for the fellowship last fall when he submitted a proposal for a 'book on the subject, accompanied by recommendations from !(1ur other scholars of medieval history. The award allows him to take: a leave: of ahSt.·nce from teaching in 198S-86 in order to com­pktt· in!<:nsive research, and also sponsors a research trip to Europe. In his study, Van Engen will explore the influences ofthe intellectual accomplishments of the Medieval Ages on the Church. -The Ob­
sen,er 
Of Interest 
The Naval, Anny' andAir Force ROTC units 
will conduct their annual Tri-Military Presidential Review today at 4:50p.m. on tht· south parking lot of the: ACC. This year's reviewing otlicer is I lnivc:rsity President Father Tht·odore Heshurgh. Also on the reviewing stand will he Captain John D. Rohrbough, Lieutenant Colonel Robert Skinner. and Colonel John Miles, commanding of­11ct·rs of the Naval, Army and Air Force ROTC units respectively. Six st·niors from the three units will he presented with awards. -The Obser11er 
Shakespeare Reading Marathon at the 
Fieldhouse Mall continues today. It will include the following speakas: South Bend Mayor Roger Parent at 12 p.m., Gerry Faust at 
12: IS, Rkh Hunter at I, Father john Van Wolvlear at I: IS, Business lkan Frank Reilly at I :4S, Provost Timothy O'Meara at 2, Engineer­ing Dean Roger Schmitz at 2: IS, Emil Hofman and Dolores Frese at S, The Esophagus Constri<:tors at 6, The Student Senate at 7, and the <:lass of 1986 officers at 9. Anyone interested in reading is invited to stop at the stage and read on a walk-on basis. -The Obsen,er 
Special Assistant to President Reagan t<1r public liaison Robert R. Keilly will discuss "Why Sandinistas Are Persecuting Christians in Nicaragua" at a 12 p.m. talk Thursday in Room I IS of the Law School. The lecture is sponsored by the h·deralist Society and is open to tht· public. Reilly, whose respon­sibilities include tht· Central Ameri<:an Outreach Program as well as pro-life groups, established the first liaison division with the ex­enuive branch of the li.S. government in 1981. -The Obser1'er 
Journalism and presidential politics 
will ht· the topic of a kcture by Murray Kempton today at R p.m. in the auditorium of tht· Ct·nter t<1r Continuing Education. Kempton is a t'<llumnist for the Long Island newspaper, Neu•sdc~v. as well as the author of three hooks, one of which won a National Book Award in 
ll)...,5. Arecent articlt: in Esquire magazine about Kempton was titled "The lkst-Kt·pt StTret in American Journalism is Murray Kempton." lit· is currently working on a hook about tht· 19SOs and contributes to tht· Neu• }'ork Ret•ieu• ofHooks. Thl.' talk is one of the Red Smith lecturt·s, which art· sponsorl'll by the Dl.'partment of Aml.'rican Studks and C()(:a Cola 10 honor the latl.' Kt·d Smith. a sportswriter who graduatl.'d from Notrt: Daml.' in 192...,. ·The Obsen•er 

VVeather 
Swmy and wanner today,
with the hi!-(h in tht· upper (>Os. ln<.:rt·asing doud~ and \Try mild ronight. with the low in thl' low SOs. Variable cloudiness, windy and warmt·r tomorrow. with a good chance ofthun· <.krstorms. lligh in tht· mid to uppn '70s. -AP 
· 
c·--'o'· I 
,_ ..-_j!


~~:r 
The Observer 
't'he Ohserver (I·~~·~ '>•I<J 2..1000) ;, puhll-,ht:d ,\1ond.l\ thruu)(h l·ru.hn· o111d on hornt· loolh~all ~aturday~. t'X.t'c:pl durinJ.t t'X,UH .and \';u:.uwn pt·nod:-. The: Obsc:rvc.·r i!'! puhll.\ht:d h~ tht· !'!Uu.Jt·lll!'!of llu: l'nhTr,in ul Notn· I>.tnu.· Jnd ~ai111 \t.ar}" .. ( ollq~t· ~uh''" rtption.. mar ht• pun h;l:"o~t'd for S.!'i pc.:r 't·.tr ( S I 'i pt·r ,,·nw...tc.:r l h\ \\ rltin)t 'fhe Ohst•rvc.•r. P () llox t} :\lotH I).&lllt.'. lndaan.a lh'i'ih 
rltt· t>h~erver '' J mt·mht:rt•llbe A~­sc.u:iatt•d Ptt"S~. :\11 rc:prududlflfl rlf.!hh Jrt rt·,c.·nnl 

Today'!<! i~!'luc.: \\ a!t pnu.Jun:d h~: 
/)(·s(~nl:'ditor . .............. Guillc.:rmo Suarl·:t. /Jt•.,ixu .-tssisttlut . .............. k\' Chapdskr /J•fJt•st•tlt•rs . ................ l!illlli~hdud>eck 
.\tichdk Famo .'\/eu·s l:'dilor.. ............................. Mary I kal~ CojJJ' l:'tlitor. .......................... .\1ark Portc.:r \{loris Cup1· l:'difor. ..................... Phil\\ olf l ·;,•u·fwlnt CopJ• l:'tlitur ......... Kart·n l>on­
d.l\llil' 

l'i,·u·Jmiutl ayuut ..............,John ~knndl h:atun•s <.ujJJ'/:'tlitur ......... (.at l:nmc.:i!'o h•utun•s /.aJ'Oll/.. \tikl' Sulli\'an \JJ DIIJ' J.'!lilor... B.uh.ara Sa·n·n.' \.lff /h~J' J.tlitur . Jody Ralllt"r .ld/Jt•.o;i~u .. I rank Norton 
1'/Jci/IJ}!,I"tl/)ht•r P:mll\.ranu.:r 1'1'/li.<t. \J.1n. Beth Porrt·r \/otma" '-.tc.:n: Fo,tc:r 

ND can learn from MU's mistakes 
The April 13 Marquette Tribune reported a story 
with more far-reaching implications than might first he 
suspected. This unobtrusive story in the twice-weekly 
student newspaper could affect us here at Notre Dame 
as well as students at private colleges and universities 
all across the country. 
The administration ofMarquette banned the showing 
of "Porky's" and "Monty Python's Meaning of Life" in 
the University-owned-and-operated movie theatre. 
'"Porky's' was not approved because ofthe excessive 
amount of sex, and 'The Meaning of Life' was not ap­
proved because of its anti-Catholic humor," explained Judy Shields, Marquette's assistant dean ofstudents. 
To argue that these movies ought to he shown for their social worth and meaningful message would be futile. "Porky's" has been called a thoroughly stupid movie, and "The Meaning of Life" did poke fun at Cat­holics, including a scene whi<:h portrayed an un­employed Catholic father who threatened to sell his children for scientific ex-
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 
Inside Wednesday 

what they want. Ifthe students want to see these movies 
they can always walk down Wisconsin Avenue to a 
privately owned theatre. 
While these points are all viable, they sidestep the 
issue. The administration may own the theatre, but they 
cannot ultimately control what the student chooses to 
view. If they are truly concerned with preserving the 
moral integrity of the student body, then they should 
not subject every film to approval or veto. The best way 
to deal with this issue would be to organize a commit­
tee of administration mem­
pl.'riments. 
bers, faculty and students to 
The people who pay to MAROUETT£s:O":..,~, 
view and discuss the merits 
see movies such as this probably aren't concerned with thl.' social implications to begin with, hut rather 
with entertaining them­selves at a funny movie. 
The Marquette ad­ministration's rash action has set a dangerous prece­dent which could he followed by other private in­stitutions, such as Notre Dame. By forbidding their students from seeing these 
particular movies in their theatre they are saying they have the right to control of each film and judge by democratic, not di<:tatorial power. 
The relationship hetwl.'l.'n 

the situation in Milwaukee and Notre Dame is obvious. Presently, the Student Union films shown in tht· Engineer­ing Auditorium do not have to meet with the approval of the administration. But what would happen if the people on the third floor of the Ad­ministration Building hap­pened to pick up a copy of Marquette's newspaper and read the unohstrusive story? 
what films their students can 
view. 
The administration seems to think they are worthy judges of morality, and by banning these films they are preserving the moral conscience of their students. What they are actually doing is retarding the moral growth of Marquette students. In order to fully develop a sense of morality towards what films an individual chooses to see, he or she must be allowed to have a choice. 
But the administration at Marquette has decided the best way for an individual to develop this ability to make moral choices is to offer no alternatives. 
Some may feel that Marquette's administration was correct in stopping these movies from being shown. These films aren't likely to change the world with their significance, and it might be counterproductive to show them since they don't exacty promote the ideals of Marquette'sJesuit tradition. After all, the administra­tion owns the theatre and they have the right to show 
They might just think it is a pretty good idea. The recent alcohol policy illustrates how the administration can reconsider their own policies after reviewing those of other schools, such as Brigham Young and Indiana L'niversity. 
The censorship question is a tricky one. At what point must the people in charge step in and ban the showing of a movie they find offensive? Anti-Catholicism and sexual immaturity are enough to make the Marquette administration take action. So far, the Notre Dame stu­dent government has not been confronted with this situation. 
The liberal attitude ofour administration has saved us from the Marquette situation and continues to distin­guish us from other Catholic attitudes. But the ad­ministration must be careful to maintain this attitude if they hope to preserve the Notre Dame image, which may be our most valuable asset. 

An Tostal 
Today's Events 
Decathlon. JPM, FrSorinStatue 
Slam Dunk Contest .2PM, Bookstore 
Air Band Competition -JPM,FrSonn Other Info Statue 
-For NO Students, THURSDAY PICNIC COEX tickets available TODAY at OBUD from 4pm-6pm. 
-For SMC Students, SATURDAY PICNIC COEX tickets available TODAY in LeMan lobby from 4pm-6pm. (Limited tickets available. Max 4 tickets perperson. A/141.0. 's must be shown) LOOKING FOR BIG BROTHER: Clue No.1­
When the midnight hour is here, From Big Brother there is nothing to fear For his curfew has fallen {or today, And therefore inside he must stay. 
Clue No.2­

While looking {or,BfgBrother today Remember that Little Sister needs a place to stay A home in the North would she choose, Even though on Friday, there is no booze. 
The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1984 -page 3 

Disarmament campaign 
Supporters of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarma­ment arrive outside the United States AirForce base at Lakenbeath, England. The CND supporters bad 
APPhotu 

marched from the USAF base at Mildenball ten miles away and held a prayer meeting outside the Laken­beatb base. Police estimated up to two thousand 
people tookpart. 

and Sunshine Promotions 
JON ANDERSON CHRIS SQUIRE TREVOR RABIN AlAN WHITE TONY I(AYE 
TOMORROW NIGHT 7:30P.M. Notre Dame A.C.C. All Seats Reserved $12.50 
Tickets on sale at the A.C.C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City). Robertson's (South Bend, Town and Country and Concord Mall). Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (LaPorte). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). World Record (Goshen). Music Magic (Benton Harbor) and Karma Records (Ft. Wayne). 
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 
You wrap or we wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka at Logan Mon.-Fri. 8:30-5:00 We Ship Exclusively UPS 

September sa ,, '84 Hoosier f\· ~ o~Joonopolis '4l''ster person 
---=MICHIGAN STATE­
September 15. 1984 
East Lansing. Michigan 
14800 per person 
(,.wrvd~<WJI:o;uptedpnorta 7111&41 
.....,.....,.iiiiiiMISSOUAI-=-=-­
September 28-30. 1984 
Columbia. Missouri 

1199"" per person • 
=LOUISIANA STATE= UNIVERSITV & World's Fair October 23-26. 1984 New Orleans and Baton Rouge 1720"" per person • 
--=LOUISIANA STATE....._,... UNIVERSilY 
October 26-26. 1984 New Orleans ood Baton Rouge 14 7200 per person • ----==-NAVY=-=--­
November 2-4. 1984 

Giants" Stadium. New Jersev 
Weekend In New 'rorl< (ltV 
1399"" per person • 
=--"UNIVERSITV OF~ 
SOUTHERN CAUFORNIA 
November 23-26. 1984 
los Angeles, California and 
including 4 dao,rs In Los Vegas 
(No Home Televi5KM1) 

, 1669"" per person • 
eose confirm _ __ _ reservations for: 
E
Notre D<wne-Purdlot 0 Notre Dome-lSU {6 days) 
Notre ~0.... 0 Notre Dome·lSU {3 days) 
b=.~·~d,~St g:::::::;;
jD Notte Do'n&-MI!>"SCUU los V15905 
____Deposit ~r person is enclosed. 
------Fullpc:M,1ffi80t per persoo enclosed. 
1 

IIJO(an:l• ________.Erplres 
IAast•Cord• ___ --~-hplres
·----------------­
....... __________ 
Clfv/Stote/Zip --------­
,...,.,.,.,._. 
5PEOAl OFF<A Attend four goorn.s ond rscerve o 1ocnc. Wool Notre ~>a"'~ StOO!um 8I01kel: ~-~ ...., 
~source
_.Travel 
P.O. Box 1602 
South Bend. Indiana 46634
mg) 236-2656 
Communication gap cited at senate Ineeting 
By MIKE MILLEN beers, then everyone will just StaffReporter laugh." Bertino announced that the 
The official student response to meeting will be reopened today at the new alcohol policy was dis­5:30p.m., and encouraged students cussed at last night's emergency stu­to attend and express their views. dent senate meeting. Alcohol Policy Committee Mem­
Student Body President Rob ber and Former Student Body Presi­Bertino saw the meeting as a dent Brian Callaghan, when asked "forum," where students and senate his opinion on the policy. stated members could discuss their views "There is nothing within two miles regarding the policy. ofthis campus. The alcohol problem 
Bertino discussed the rally to be is not a cause but an effect. Student held on Friday, noting "we expect Union can't do everything, and halls between 20 and 25" reporters and can't put on social events every media representatives to attend the night. Fur the last I 0 years, the Stu­event. Student Body Vice President dent Center idea has been rehashed. Cathy David announced information No changes are scheduled to take ef­packets will be distributed to the fect. We want to see a strong com­press. mittment." 
Bertino said he wanted to shift the "In 1963, the faculty was attention from the loss of drinking promised their building ( Decio )," liberties to the more general "lack of said Dean Christy, senior class vice communication" between students president. Bertino pointed out and university officials. "We're not "there is no motivation to cuntruct; just fighting for alcohol," he added. student center" at the present time. 
Bertino asked that students use taste and thought in their banners to Bertino hopes to have a final draft maintain credibility. He added "If ofthe student senate response ready the press sees students waving by tonight. 

ND student arrested in Mishawaka for DUI 
By MIRIAM HILL  left ofcenter twice.  
StaffReporter  The driver was taken to the police  
station where he agreed to take a  
A Notre  Dame  student  was  ar­ hreath test which showed him to be  
rested on a charge of driving under  above the legal limit. He was then  
the  influence  of intoxicants  after  charged with driving under the in­ 
leaving the Loadsville Tavern at the  fluence ofalcohol. None ofthe other  
100 Center in Mishawaka with seven  students were arrested, although all  
other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's  of them were under the legal drink­ 
students last Thursday.  ingage.  
Patrolman  L.W.  Witucki  of the  Regarding  the  arrest,  Dean  
Mishawaka police force saw the stu­ Roemer stated, "The University has  
dents  leave  the  tavern  and  walk  not been involved in the case. When  
toward a car in the parking lot while  a student gets in trouble in the com­ 
drinking beer and throwing cans. Af­ munity for a  misdemeanor,  we let  
ter  the  students  entered  the  car,  the local courts take care of it."  
Witucki followed them and pulled  The student's court date has been  
the car over when the driver drove  set for Monday, April 30.  

An Tostal fun to start off today with decathlon event 
By CAROLYN GILLESPIE 
News Staff 
Since its founding by the Hall Presidents' Council in I967, AnTos­tal has grown into one ofthe biggest events of the year. lt is a much­needed and much-anticipated excuse to act a little crazy for a while before the crush offinals. 
There is a multitude of activities planned for each day, all promising to be adventurous. The key to the success of An Tostal '84, according to Chairman DaveJakopin, is "active student participation." The events can be an excellant opportunity to boost student morale and promote campus unity. A lot of time, energy and hard work by the An Tostal com­mittee has given the events potential for great success ifeveryone gets in­volved. · 
Following is a briefpreview ofthe coming events. Today 
This is the frrst hig day, to kick off 
the festival with three new activities: 
•Decathlon 
-to take place at Father Sorin's Statue; the winner will carry a torch Saturday morning to lead the Chariot Procession. 

•Slam 
Dunk Contest -to take place at the Bookstore Courts. 

•Airband 
Competition -to take place at Father Sorin's Statue, finalists will compete at the Irish Wake Saturday night in Stepan Cen­ter. Thursday 


Both campuses will be active tomorrow. A picnic will start things off at Saint Mary's, with such events as a canoe race, a tricycle race and the famous "jail" game. One main at­traction will he the Mr. Campus Contest, held in Angela Athletic Facility. The Beer Garden will begin at 9:30 at Senior Bar ( 3 Budweisers for S I!). Friday 
All stage activities will take place at Father Sorin's Statue with a band to provide music all afternoon. Various events held on the quads will include contests such as car stuffing, donut eating, and the hilarious Dating Game. On Green Field the infamous Keg Toss and Matress Races will be taking place. 
The new contest referred to as Miss Mud will also be held Friday. Miss Mud is parallel to Mr. Campus. She will lead the Chariot Procession on Saturday along with him and the decathalon winners to start the ever­famous mud fights. The contest itself will not be based upon looks but rather upon answering questions correctly. Saturday 
This day is full of events ranging from a road rally, a campus-wide pic­nic to the popular mud pits. Before the famous Charriot Races take place, there will he a Mud Pillow Fight, Mud Wheelbarrow Race and Mud Volleyball. Bookstore Basket­hall semifinals will also be going on. The highlight of the day will be the Irish Wake featuring the band Airian, to be held in Stepan Center. Sunday 
The final day of An Tostal brings 
rest to those who have actively par­
ticipated in the past five days. The 
main attraction will be the 
Bookstore Basketball Finals. The 
finals ofthe Ultimate Frisbee contest 
will also be held Sunday. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 2 5, 1984 -page 4 

Snack bar gains profits with new pizza service 

By P.A.CIMINO 
\taflReporter 
The: llt'\\TSt compcti!Or lc1r the: 
piu:a crown at Saint :\1ary·~ is called 
tht· Wild Pizza. snvc:d by the: snack 
har and now availahk for frn: 
ddin:ry anywlu·rc: on campus. 
The dc:livcry snvicc, instillltcd 
juM two wcc:ks ago, h;L~ hc:c:n a big 
hit on t·arnpus ami is growing, said .Jane Ellickson, snack bar managc:r. 
'J('hy till' name "Wild Pizza?" ''It's a very catchy name and also a SAGA tradc:namt·," said Ellickson. SAGA is a nationwide food service that runs both the snack bar and the Saint Mary's dining hall. Saint Mary's is one of approximately 400 collt:gc:s across the l hitnl States served by SA<iA. 
The Wild Pizza has bt·t·n adding to the snack bar's prot1ts since it was imrodut'l'd at the bt·ginning of last st·mestt·r. "Saks han· increased con­siderably this sc:mt·stt·r over last st·nu·stt·r," Ulickson said. 
Tht· Wild Pizza has a tough battk ahead, howt·n·r. as it is vying for the atli:l'tions of a studc:nt body that has 


Schlafly 

continued from page I 
Organization tc1r Women, the League of Women Voters and the American Civil l.iberties llnion tc~­titkd against it hdort· legislative 
l'lHllm irtl"CS. 
St·hlatly also niticin·d tht· na­tion'.s schools li1r dwelling on social isslll:s like: sex education and mtdear war at tht· expense of bask reading. writing and mathematical skills. 
In an intnvil'w after her talk. Schlatly said she "compktdy" sup-· 

bc:cn a steady ami welcome cus­tomer of such pizza giants as Domino's and (iood Time Pizza. Domino's representative Liz Earl~· said they have: not noticed any change in the number oforders from the Saint Mary's campus. "The num­ber of orders has not diminished," Early said. "We still deliver an average of I ~0 pizzas to Saint Mary's daily." Meanwhile, the snack bar delivc:rs an ave:rage of twenty pizzas a day. said Ellickson. She was quick to point out that this number varies drastically from day to day. 
In the midst of all these pies, El­lickson said Saint Mary's students arc very happy with the Wild Pizza. "I have gonc:n a good amount of positive feedback from the stu­dents," she said. Ellickson also said she wished students would giv• th•· Wild Pizza a try and that if they did. tht·y would not he disappointed 
l'or thost· intcrcstc:d in trying 1he Wild Pizza it is delivcrnl free of charge Sunday through Thursday from 7 p.m. to midnight. Prices range from S2.':)0 to SH.60 and the number ro call is 21H-20 I I. 
ported an Indianapolis ordinance, passt·d Monday night. that defines vioknt pornography as sexual dis­nirnination and makes its dis­tributors subje1.:t to civil lawsuits. 
"This new idea is to deal with the issue (of pornography) as a type of, civil rights litigation. It adapts civil rights legal jargon to the pornog­raphy issue." 
Schlafly dismissed the constitu­tional ramitkations ofthe nt·w law. 
"Pornography is the degradation and t·xploitation of women," she said. "It isn't women tying up and abusing men. It is men t~·ing up and abusing women. There arc clear sexist differences." 
don't think they'll budge on that one." Roemer said.
HPC Tht· definition of a party "needs a lot of discussion." said Roemer. The

continuedfrom page I 

HPC suggl·stcd that the hall rectors Rm·mn said thl· issue of allowing should bt· able to determine if a 
only btTr ami wine in student's gathering of students .constitutes a 
The l>bservC"r/L.c:,· {:hapclskr 
jean Bradley serves Te77J' Burke at tbVSaiftt Mary's product. The snack bardelivers the ptzzafreeofcbarge snack bar, which began seroing the Wild Pizza recent­Sunday through Tuesday, andprices range from 12.90 ~)' and so far bas done good business with its new to 18.60. 
rooms is "disntssabk." llowcvc:r. beer and wine will probably rnnain t ht· only akoholic lwvcragcs pt:r­mittcd in the on-r-21 parties that take plan· in hall sol'ial spaces: "I party. "One: possible pnibl~m with that is that it may lead to a lot of in­equities among the halls," said Roemer. "Tht·y may want a set of unit(mn guiddint·s to work with." 

April 25 at 8:00PM Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium 
WINDOM plays ''Thurber'' 

Tickets $2 -Student/Senior Citizen $5 -General Admission Pick up tickets today at Saint Mary's Special Programs 284-4626 
Don't Miss The ND Student Players' 
ame 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday THIS WEEKEND -April26, 27 and 28 In The Bendix Theater, Century Center BPM 
Tickets are still on sale at the Record Store, Century Center, and the O'Laughlin Box Office 
Buses will be provided to the Century Center for Fridays performance!! Sign up at the S. U. Record Store. Tickets are going fast-Get 'em now!! 

~~ ~-~­
The Observer Wednesday, April 25, 1984 -page 5 
Close kindred 
Verene and Ruth Cady, siamese twins joined from the chest to the abdomen, will not be serarated surgi-



Clubs and Organizations
fJd ::® jl 
April is the time to re-register for the 84-85 school year Re-registration is mandatory for all groups. Forms are also available for applying for Activity Fee Funding for next year, and also for Football Concession Stands for the Fall. Deadline for applying is April 30. Forms are available in the Studen~ 
A. DRAMATIC NEW CONCEPT IN SUN TANNING! 
ePreserve Your Tan 
-.. 'IM-H~ . 
sun tannirg sam. 217-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 
~--------------------------------------------------~· 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 

Activities Office, LaFortune. 

NEED HELP WITH YOUR STUDENT LOAN? 
If you've attended college on a Guaranteed Stu­dent Loan or a National Direct Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, consider spending a couple of years in the Army. 
If you train for certain specialties, the govern­ment will release you from 113 of your indebted­ness (or $1 ,500, whichever is greater) for each year of active duty. 
Obviously, a three year enlistment cancels 100 percent of your debt. But if you sign up for the Army's exclusive two-year enlistment option, we'll still cancel 2/3 of your debt. 
Plus, you may be eligiblefor generous educa­tional incentives. 
To find out how to serve your country and get out of debt, call the number below. SGT Jones 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

Soviets employ boiDbs against Afghan rebels 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­ministration said yesterday that Soviet forces have opened a major offensive against rebels in Afghanis­tan and a Pentagon spokesman said "it appears their force levels of per· sonnel. aircraft and armor may he higher than ever before." 
Defense Department spokesman Michael Burch also said the Soviets "probably have begun to employ high-altitude bombing" for the first time in their four-year effort to suppress Afghan resistance which began with a Soviet invasion in late 1979. 
"It appears that some sort of spring offensive has begun," Burch said in response to questions. 
At the State Department, spokes­man Alan Romberg said the United States has confirmed from several sources that the new Soviet military offensive includes "high-altitude saturation bombing" up and down the 70-mile-long Panjsher Valley north of Kabul, the Afghan capital. The rebels have a stronghold in the valley. 
Romberg said the bombing began 
on Friday and continued Saturday. 
"There is also a large convoy of 
several hundred Soviet vehicles 
which has started to move north 
from the mouth of the valley," Rom­
bersaid. 
In addition, he said other Soviet 

Chicago man shoots wife, children to death 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -A man shot his wife and two children to death yesterday, then ran down the stairs of a high­rise housing project firing on "everyone he encountered," police said. A bystander died and four "sweep operations" are taking place in western Afghanistan near Herat and near Jalalabad, the country's second and third largest cities after Kabul. 
Other such operations are taking place in northern Afghanistan, close to the Soviet border, Romberg said. 
He reported increased resistance activtty near Kabul, saying Mujahidin resistance fighters have carried out numerous raids and at· tacks on the main road from the Soviet l Inion to Kabul. 
The State Department spokesman 
noted that the Soviets previously 
have carried out six unsuccessful 
campaigns in the Panjsher Valley. 

He said the most recent of them was in the summer of 1982 before a truce was worked out between the Soviets and the Afghan resistance commander in the Panjsher, Ahmad Shah Masood. 
Other sources said up to 20,000 
Soviet troops may he involved in the 
new offensive, along with more than 
500 tanks and armored troop car­
riers, plus 60 to 80 heavily armed 
helicopter gunships. 

Burch did not specifically identify the types of bombers being used by the Soviets against targets in the val­ley, but he told reporters that "I wouldnt quarrel" with reports that the Soviets have sent Tll-16 Badger bombers against the Afghans from bases in the southern part of the 
Soviet Union. 

people were wounded before police 
shot  down  the  gunman  in  the  
parking Jot.  
Officers said a family  dispute  

sparked the shooting spree by . Charles Hunt, 37. A neighbor said Hunt was "very strange" and that she had reported to police in the past 
that he was abusing his family. 

Two people remained hospitalized Tuesday afternoon after the incident at Theodore K. Lawless Gardens, a normally quiet, middle class residence on the South Side. 
Cmdr. James Delaney said that at about 8 a.m., Hunt fatally shot his wife, Betty, 50, his son, Charles Jr., I 7, and his daughter, Linda, I 5, in the family's 23rd-floor apartment. 
He then dashed downstairs to the 18th floor and killed Gloria Carney, 49, with three shots to the head, police said. 
He then went to the building's lobby, where he shot "everyone he encountered, wounding 29-year-old Londa McDaniels, and a boy," Delaney said. 
"I saw him shoot the woman as she was pressing the elevator but· ton," said W.L Williams, who was repairing his car outside the build­ing. "He stepped outside the lobby and fired more shots into it." 
Delaney said Hunt walked outside and shot the building's manager, Robert Gholar, 31. 
"He ... shot Robert in the face and reloaded the gun," Williams said. "I yelled for Robert to run and that's when the police pulled up." 
Delaney said Hunt then raced through the building's parking lot, firing at police. Witnesses said Hunt appeared to be reloading the automotic pistol as he was felled by a hail ofpolice gunfire. 
La Croix is named ad design manager 
Suzanne La Croix has been named 
l(ldvertising design manager for The Observer. La Croix, a junior economics/CAPP major from Brighton, Mich., has worked for the newspaper as a production manager ·arretas·a design editor. 
.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­The Observer 

Food costs, inflation falling, report claims 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<rTON -l'ood costs 
curnhlc:d ti1r the tirst time sirKe July 
to hold tlw increaM· in consumer 
pricc:s to a mc:rt· 0.2 pc:rcent last 
month, leaving intlation for the: yc:ar 
running at a moderate: <; pc:rcc:nt an­
nual dip, tht· govc:rnmt·nt rc:portu.J 
Tuc:sday. 
The White: House: cheered the 
nc:ws as "vt:ry rt·assuring" and 
private: analysts found no signs intla­
tion was moving hack into the titst 
I ant·. 
In its nt·w rt·port, the: l.ahor 
lkpartmt·nt said ti10d pricc:s, pact·d 
hy d1eapcr nJt:at, poultry, fish, eggs 
and fruit, wt·rt· off 0.1 pc:rcc:nt in 
March alitT surging 1.6 pcrcc:nt in 
January and 0.6 percent in February. 
<rasol inl:' priu:s revc:rsc:d a fivt·­
month slitk to dimh I pl:'rcent in 
March, thdr higgt·st gain since: last 
spring. Even so. ther wtTc: still 12.4 
JWrt:c:nt hdow thdr peak of three: 
years ago. 
l'ud oil pricc:s declinc:d <; percc:nt 
aftc:r shooting up nc:arly 10 pc:n.:c-nt 
ovt·r tht· prc:vious two months, the: 
tkpartnu:nt said. 
The ovt·rall incn·a.S<: in the Con­
surnc:r Prict· Index was well undt·r 
the seasonally adjusted gain of 0.6 
IX'rt'l:nt in January and 0.4 pc:n:ent 
in Ft·hruary. It was 0.2 pt·rcent in 
lkcc:mlwr, capping a 19H~ advanct· 
of .H pern·nt, tht· smallc:st gain since 
the price-controlkd years of 1971­
7!.. 
At tht· Whitt· lloust·. spokesman 
Marlin Fitzwater said, "This is vc:ry 
reassuring llt:'WS in vit·w of thl:' ex­
traordinary growth of the: t·conomy 
in tht· first quartt·r." 
lie added, "It provides furtht:'r l'VitkntT lhl:' l:'l:'Onomy is not ovl:'rhc:ating. This is vl:'ry promising li1r a downward trend in intnt·st ratl:'s." 
Somt· l:'conomists havl:' c:xprc:ssnl 
conct·rn that tht· t'Conomy's strong 
expansion -at an H._~ pcrcnll an­
nual rate in 1he: first quartt·r -could 
put pressurt· on wagc:s and pricc:s rc:­
igniting tht• intlation tirc:s of past 
yt·ars. 
But analysts could lind littk 
c:vidt·ntT of1hat on Tuc:sday. 
"There arc no signs here overheating is starting to huhhk filr­ward," said Donald Ratajczak, filrt't:aster at <rc:orgia State llnivc:r­sity. 
Alkn Sinai, chideconomist at tht· Nt·w York invt·stmt·nt banking firm of l.d11nan Brothers Kuhn Loch Inc.. said tht· March innt·ast· "undt·rscort·s the fat·t there is no major re-;u:ederation of inflation in prospect now or in the nt·xt ft·w months." 
Ratajczak said thne was not hin)! in the rqlOrt to altt·r his projt·ction of about <; (XTtTnt inflation ti1r 1 ht· 
~***************t 
: Buy * 
·il * 
• * 
: Observer :
• *
• * 
: classifieds : 
***************** 

yc:ar, a forecast sharc:d hy many 
private economists. 
Bolstc:ring the analysts' predic­tions the economy was not growing too energetically, the Commerce Department said factory orders for "hig ticket" durable goods climbed 
O.H percent in March, the smallest gain in three months and mostly due to a surge: in orders for defense capi­tal goods. 
The six major automakers sold cars at an annual rate of 7.7 million in mid-April. The carmakers have hec:n at or above that rate for most of this year. continuing the brisk sales recovc:ry that took hold late last year. 
The: automakers said they delivc:rc:d 2~2. I S6 cars in the April I 0-April 20 industry selling period, 
22.6 pc:rn:nt hc:tter than last year's 
IH':U6~. 

Thne wc:re nine: selling days in tht· period, so that works out to a rate of 2S,79S cars a day, the best since 27, IS~ a day were sold in mid­April 1979. 
For the yc:ar, U.S. automakcrs have delivered 2,4~7.160 cars to dealers, _H.O pc:rcent ahead of 1,799,062 at the same point in 19Hj. 
In other economic developments Tuesday: 
-The government outspent it income by :11.2H.6 billion last month, hut red ink ti1r the year is still run­ning 9 percent hc:low last year's record, the Treasury lkpartmcnt said in its monthly statement. The March ligures raised the deficit to lit I 7.H hi!lion for the fiscal year whid1 hegan in October, compared to :11129..2 billion during the same period last year. 
-Stc:c:l production rose to 2.127 million tons in the wc:ek ended April .2 I, an incrt:ase of I.7 percent from the previous wec:k's 2.092 million tons, the American Iron and Steel in­stitute reportc:d.Thc: industry's production amountc:d to H 1.9 per­cent of capacity during the week, comparc:d with H0.6 pc:rccnt in the previous week. 
Take a stab at sportswriting. 
The Observer needs writers to cover spring and fall 
s;>orts. Though some experience is nice, all that's needed 
is a true interest in sports. 

Call Mike Sullivan at 239-5303, or stop by the office, 
3rd Floor LaFortune for more information. 
Wednesday, April25, 1984-page 6 

AP Photn 
Fair gators 
Trncks carried an artistic team's version of giant route to the World's Fair where they will become part alligator beads along a New Orleans streetMonday en ofthe fair's gate. The fair opens may 12. 

LIQUIDATION and Electronics Sale 

Pioneer, Sanyo, Sansui, Jensen Craig, and much, much more. Major distribution outlet to liquid· ate to the walls regardless of cost. 
Save  on  turntables,  receivers  
speakers,  equalizers,  car  audio  
and more.  

Over $500,000 Retail Savings to 75 percent 

Telephones $5.99 Cordless SUPER SALE 
phones $59.99 Notre Dame ACC' atches $2.99' Sat10·9 ichael Jackson Sun12·6 
Poster $1.49 

LIVE CLASSES 
• TEST-N-TAPE® LIBRARY 
( 
• REINFORCEMENT TEST 
• HOMESTUDY PACKET Preparation 
tor summer exams CALL NOW 
,~-tl Call DaY1. Evenings &Weekends 
.,,. •. 272-4135 
lVI 1717 E. South Bend Ave EDUCATIONAL ~~R . 
TEST SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
LECTURE SERIES What Is Art? 
Thursday night slide lectures designed to in­troduce viewers to basic ideas and tech­niques in art and architecture. 
April26th, 7:30pm"Architecture"/ 

Assistant Professor,NORMAN CROWE Department of Architecture 

$2 Admission $1 Students and Friends 
THE ANNENBURG AUDITORIUM THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Sponsored by the Friends of the Snite 



The Observer Wednesday, April 2 5, 1984 -page 7 



Pll'lli! Meelltn!t&'i( 
IlK]) 'kiJM;S R.C::l> llf'JSC SPI:J:::l>'lt/111(
-
.,,_ 
TogNCbl~~ ldi~Cul 
PORTRAITS 
·-.o_ ~-I 
I 
'I:~ 'flJdztliiJ. 
,1• (";1 \ i 
j I
1/ \, 'I 
/ ·I I -::: .I ;::: :: 
-•• -.:: I 
~­
.. -­
AEROSMITH'S GREATEST HITS 
1N;Iud1ng Ofeown On w..Th11 W•y Sweel Emo11on CorM TovetMr Back In The s.ddle 
The Charlie Daniels Band Full Moon 
'I 
BUJE ~TER CULT
HERBIEHANCOCK 

KANSAS 
tlRUJI'IINKNUWNIHIH;IN
MR. HANDS 

AIDIO-VISIONS 
Spinllng Prism -Cafrpso 4 AM 

Hold On Relentless GotTo Rock On
~SIUIIe 'Tedures 

No One-Together lorlef 
ND BOOKSTORE 
!BOUSABDS OF ALBUMS ct CASSE!!ES! All these titles and many, many more! 
If you miss Ws sale, ~ music collectioJi Willll8V81' forgive you! 

Your favorite artists plus hundreds more! 
MOUY HATCHET I 
'"""'""' 
Bouroty Hunter'Getor Cotlntry,'Big Apple . 
Oreiii'Tl!l 1'11 New<r See' Trust Your Old Fnll!fld I 
. 
I 
I~(;__.Sp!;!;T:J{<I4/fc;N~ 
J./tN!; ~if!;? 
Givethe giftof music. 
BILLY JOEL 

, COLD SPRING HARBOR 
I Aetssue o! I he oug•nal 
1971 album •nclud•ng 
Shes GoI A W<Jy 
Ev~r~~~~~~yo~~~~~~d~ow 
Ken11_r f.pg~i.n.\ Ce/ehrute 1f1t' Home 
klc.ludii1Q En4«MyDrNm1Wtw Do People lie I'Ve Got The Melody (f)Mp In My Hear1) [);Kidy!IS.CitJL.adyluck 


r--DAN FOGELBERG 
I 

CHEAP TRICK NEIL DIAMOND 
ALL SHOOK UP 

CLASSICS-THE EARLY YEARS 
tncludrng Cherry. Cherry/Solllary Man Kentucky Woman Thank The Lord For The N•ght T1me Girl. You II Be A Woman Soon 
lflt:::luding Purelmag1nahon 
Where The Wmd Blows Free Tappan lee 
N1ghts Are Forever WilhO\JIYou 



JANISJOPLIN'S 
GREATEST HITS 
1nrJudiny Me And Bobby McC>H•OownC>fl M$ 
CHEAP TRICK 
ONE ON ONE 
mcludmg 

/Want '1\:Ju,OneOnOne II \'bu W"JnfMylo\'1!' 
Shes T1ght Saturday At MICintghl 

BOB SEGER SYSTEM 
Ramblin' Gamblin' Man 

_ .................................... ., ......... .. .. ................... .
~ -~ ~ 






View~_o_i_n_t_________w_ed_n_esd_a_y,-Ap-ril_2_s,_I9-84~-p...
ag-e8 

Restoring prestige to the Senior Fellow Award 
I think it goes without saying that the Senior Class Fellow award is in trouble; this year's tlasn1 has made that clear. I should like to make a modest proposal concerning this award; one that would reston· its original in-
Richard Conklin Guest column 
tention and, I hope, some of the educational usdtllness it was meant to have. 
lip front, two disclaimers. I spt·ak here as an individual and nor as a mt·mbcr of tht· llniver­sily Administration. Also, I do nor mean to dis­parage those mt·mbcrs of the Notre Daml· community who have recl'ived the award in rlTent years. 
Each of these individuals deserved some honor; but the Senior Clas.o; Fdlow award, at least as it was originally conl-civcd, was not thl· appropriate honor. 
The Senior Class Fdlow award was original­ly moddnl on the Chubb Fellowships at Yale l Jnivcrsity. Chubb Fellows arc drawn from the influence hierarchy of the nation, most often the area of puhli<: sl·rvice, and come to Yale not for a quick, in-and-out kcture, but for " more leisurely stay that includes informal give-and-take with the students. 
The University committed itself to finding funding for such a fellowship (which is cost­ly); Father Hesburgh offered his clout in extending invitations; and the Provost's Office promised to coordinate the selection process. In the early days ofthe award, the late William Burke, associate provost, helped a Senior Clao;s Committee to winnow nominations and to produce a short list ofcandidates. 
The most successful Senior Class Fellow wao; Eugene McCarthy in 1969. McCarthy talked to classes, led seminars, dined with stu­dt·nts and otherwise spent his two days on campus living the life of the University. I remember one lengthy night session -a col­loquy in the best tradition of medieval academic taverns -spent on the second floor ofthe old Alumni-Senior club. 
Timing was the one major problem in the award's early days. The Senior Class commit­tee did not begin work until the first semester of their Jao;t year, and often dill not begin is­suing invitations until spring. If the first per­son on the list wa'> unable to spend time on campus (a token appearance was not suffi­cient), an invitation went out 10 No. 2, and so 
on. The longest lead time -say, two months -was insufficient to commandeer the calen­dars ofthe people ofthe calibre the award sug­gested. 
As the selectors dropped from No. I to No. 2 to No. 3, often accompanied by publicity, the award suffered. Eventually, it was turned into an award honoring someone within the community, and even the idea of this person beingobliged to involve himselfor herselfin a special educational role was lost in the crowded days ofApril. 
It became, quite frankly, an internal and titular honor, exactly the opposite of what it was intended to be. 
What to do? 

First, return the locus ofcoordination ofthe Senior Fellow search to the Provost's Office, with a member of its stalf becoming non­voting chair ofthe selection committee, insur­ing continuity and underlining the educational nature of the award. 
Second, make the Junior Class officers ex­officio the Senior Class Fellow selection com­mittee, and give them a deadline ofthe end of their junior year to come up with a short list, after inviting nominations from the entire class. 
Third, have a bias toward persons with a 
Notre Dame connection, but do not make a 
previous association with the University a pre­
requisite. In other words, first think ofpeople 
such as John Noonan, Michael Novak, Father 
Bryan Hehir, Congressman Romano Mazzoli, 
and Governor Bruce Babbit, all of whom 
know the University and its culture. 
But do not exclude, for example, a member of the President's cabinet, whom we have reason to believe might come, simply because he or she is a stranger to campus. 
Fourth, make sure that the invitation goes out the summer before the senior year begins, with the candidate allowed to choose a con­venient date during the coming academic year. This should lacgely overcome the timing problem. 
Fifth, insist on more than a perfunctory campus appearance and provide an honorarium sufficient to interest persons who have no trouble filling their calendars. 
If we adopt these measures, I believe we can recover the original purpose and prestige ofthe Senior Fellow award. 
Richard Conklin is the director of In­formation St.>rl!ices at Notre Dame. 


An insider's view of Latin American guerrillas 
011e of the first things people find u•ben they study /be third world is thai a charac­teristic trail ofthese ex-c:olrmial countries is the existen£·e of guerrilla mcJIIements. Yet outside the third u•orld lillie is known about these movements, and less is understood. 
In a recent trip to Mexico, I int£'Tlliewed "Mario", an Argentinian who may lexilimately be consi~Jered an exp£>rl in guer-
Santiago O'Donnell 
Free-lance 
ril/a ideology and methods. Mario's bm·k­gmund includes a master in philosophy from the PorztifiL·al Catholic Universi~y in Rio dejaneiro, Brazil, three years as a math andpbllosopbv student and class delegate at the llnir•ersi~y ofBuenos Aires and, more im­portant~v. four years of direct inc,olr,ement with the Montoneros Organization, one of the major urban guerrilla mcwements in !.atin America. 
Wbv didyou becomea "guerrillero"? What does it mean to be one? Why ditl you leave the gru>rillas? What do you see as the future ofrer,olulions in !.alin America? These u•ere the questions I posed as I turned on tbe tape record(>r. 
"When I entered the University of But·nos Airt·s in 1961 I had to work to make a Jiving, which madt· it difficult to study. The only pl·ople I found recc:ptivc: to this problem and 10 thl· probkm ofthl· university's strict admis­sion code were students with lc:ftist ideas. 
"I became a das.o; dclcgatt· and obtained some reforms in the admissions policy, which tnt to an offl·r to join Communist Youth. I at·­t-c:ptl·d their invitation, seduced by the Marx­ist intl·rpretation of history and influenced by the literature that drculated at the time. 
"A year later I bel·ame a member of the (communist) parry ant.! wa.~ assigned 10 a group working in thl· barrio with the poor. I rl·alizc:d that thl· potential for revolution was not in the communist party. 
"The: barrios were Peronist and they would not accl·pt communist material even if it was 
free. But the coinmuni!;t party was not the on­
ly Marxist group in Argentina, and I began to 
contact sectors in the Pcronist youth, even­
tually I became a member ofCooke's group. 

"Cooke was the Cuban contact in Argen­
tina, and the first group of Argentine 
'guerrilleros' received military training in 
Cuba via Cooke. But this group was more a 
family-type discussion group, and all it of­
fered, was a remote possibility to travel to 
Cuba So after a few months, I left this group 
and joined others in the peronist youth. they 
gave me what I was looking for, military in­
struction." 

What kind ofmilitary instruction didyou receive? "It was pretty primitive, basically oriented 
,towards explosives, and how to construct 
them with materials that could be purchased 
in drug stores, or here and there. Many of 
these groups rejected military paraphernalia 
likl· bazookas and the like. 

"The idea was to usc easily accessible hand 
guns and explosives or flammable materials, 
so that the common person could identify 
with the revolution and eventually become 
involved. The weapon ofpoor people is the 22 
pistol; you assault a bank with a 22, not with a 
grenade or a fancy machine gun." 

Mario did not raise his voice at any point oftbe interoiew, but be u•asJar from being indifferent. Ser,eral times be interrupted his speech, started shaking his legs, took a bearry toke offofhis cigarette, and reached into his memoryfor u•ords, then return to his story•. 
"One day I met an old friend from the Uni­versity, and we decided to form a closed ter­rorist group, separated from the other armed groups (for our personal security). We managed to do a few things, like gather I.D.S., and pull robberies to get money for buying wl·apons." 
E'llf!tllual~y you got arrested, didn'tyou? 

"Well, in one of these episodes two mem­lx·rs ofour group were arrested. They did nor ric the man well enough and he managed to yell at a polkeman that was pa'>sing by, Anoth­er mistake they made was to wait for the elevator instead of running down the stairs. When I arrived at home, the police were waiting for me. I was given three years, but 
after a year and a halfI was freed on probation. 
"During this period I made contact with the 
Montoneros, and when I left prison I joined 
them. I did this partly because it wao; the guer­
rilla organization with the most Nietzchean 
'will to power,' and partly because it was 
cleacly emerging a..-the dominant group with­
in the mobilized sectors, and I didn't want to 
miss the bus. That is how I became involved 
with the 'hardcore' guerillas, which is what 
you asked me at the beginning." 

Going to a morepsycbologicallellf!l, what made you join the guerrillas? What was the limit that bad to be transposed for you to pick up a gun? 
"There wasn't a specific event or thing, rather ideology weighed a lot .. When you have an idea of revolution in your head, and you combine it with the rebellion of the popular sectors, you believe that your idea is correct. But to what extent the popular sectors would follow the revolutionary process, and how to lead them were problems that I would dis­cover later. Injustice? I could make a long list of injustices: the electoral proscription of the Peronist party, the (military) dictatorships and many other things .... 
"The example of the Tupamacos (in Uruguay) led me to believe in the revolution­ary potential ofthe urban guerrilla" 
In 1979 Montonero member, Ana Maria Gonzales, placed a bomb under the bed of Chief Police Commissioner Cardozo using herfriendship with Cardozo's daughter. As a guerrilla, are there any limits to your use of violence? 
"I always avoided .. .I was able to avoid ­and in this sense I was lucky -I wao; able to avoid this type of situation ...Of course you can never be I00 percent sure, but I never killed anybody ...But sometimes you ace in a situation where you ace a friend of the daughter ofthe chiefofpolice, and the atmos­phere is heavy with all the killings that have been taking place, and someone from the leadership comes up to you and tells you that since you are her friend you should put a bomb under her father's bed. Maybe Ana Maria would have never kilkd anyone in her life, but she was the only one with the oppor­tunity to do it 
"Anyway, by that time I had left the Guerril­las and wao; working with the Peronist party. I thought that the killings hadn't taken us anywhere. We had nobody behind us, and they had thousands of policemen waiting in line." 
Why didyou Iealie the Montoneros? 
'It's hard to explain, but at the time there was no way of controlling the violence, be­cause the leadership of the Montonccos did not want to admit it had been defeated, and the pattern of violence that had been es­tablished was impossible to control. So my proposal to the leadership -a proposal that had significant support -was to admit our defeat, distribute the money among the needy, distribute the weapons and wait for the situation to change. Also I began to value human life more, which is something we had had contempt for. In relation to our families, to other people's life, etc." 
Why did the revolution fail in Argentina? 
· "In the I..atin American context, revolution is necessary in some cases -like in N icacagua or El Salvador -is to be expected. But in South America, I can justify violence only in some cases, but cannot accept the idea of revolution. I believe it obtains the opposite result from what it seeks, because the forces we manage to gather ace violently dispersed by the enemy. 
"I believe that the revolution is justified when the population assumes it and takes part in it. In South America the revolution is only an adventure ofthe petit-bourgeoisie." 
Under what circumstances would you pick up a gun again? 
'Only to defend my daughter." 
Soyou have discarded anyfuture personal inllolvement in armed insurrection as a political option. 
"In terms of Argentine politics today I do. I cannot focsee a situation that would put me in a position to do so. I could only be taken to that situation if I decided to live in Argentina at any cost. But today I have a different perspective. If things get bad in a place I take the first plane and leave." 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does PO! necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opmions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor............ Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor .............. Mary Healy Photo Editor. ............... Pete Laches 
Department Managers 
Business Manager . ......... Dave Taiclet Controller ................ Maripat Horne Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3, 1966 
.• '-~ "* '*' • 4 'J ' 

"ielYP-_O_i_n~t________________________________________w__edn__e~~~-'~Ap~r_il_2~5,_1_98_4_-~P~~~e-9 
'. P. 0. BoxQ 
Don't take music away 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing · fit regards to a recent memorandum sent to all dorms by Dean of Students, James A. Roemer. The memoran­dum stated that a number of complaints had been received by Roemer, from visitors and faculty, about the practice ofstudents playing their stereos with the speakers in the win­dows facing the outside. In summary, Roemer asked that this practice be discouraged and that RA's try to enforce the discouragement. 
I wonder who has been complaining so to Dean Roemer. Obviously some persons with absolutely no tolerance for popular music have been ruffling some of the administra­tion's feathers. Is it that these people have neurotic tendencies and can not cope with musical stimulus, or is it just that these people have an innate disliking for music? 
Roemer clearly stated that faculty and visitors have been making the complaints. The funny part of this is that most faculty and visitors do not even live here. The campus is primarily the home of the students. I have never yet come in contact with a student who thought that the playing ofsuch music was of ill practice. In fact, most students feel that the music is relaxing and adds some spice to an already nice day. 
Enforcing Dean Roemer's request would only cause more tension between the ad­ministration and the students. We may not be able to drink, walk on the grass, or be with our girlfriend after 2 a.m., but God help us ifyou take away our music. 
jim Cole 
Move off campus 
DearEditor 
This afternoon I had the opportunity to watch the student demonstration in front of the administration building. While I admired the unified student reaction to the new al­cohol policy, I think the demonstrators mere­ly displayed why such a policy was formulated . Shouting "Let's get drunk" demonstrates the unhealthy student attitude towards alcohol use. 
Furthermore protesting to an administra­tion which practices "in loco parentis" is al­most certainly bound to fail. The administration may listen to student opinion, but they certainly have no obligation to make concessions to the students. 
If students truly wish to exercise greater control over their lives, there is one very dear, viable option. The population of South Bend has declined approximately 20,000 in the past 20 years, leaving thousands ofcheap, unused housing units. Moving off campus would not only allow students to do as they . see fit,. but it would cause students to mature much more rapidly than they would living on campus. 
Signing housing leases, paying rent, and buying groceries might sound like a headache, but such things are part of the real world, a world those living on campus are insulated from. 
I would venture to say that the varying cir­cumstances under which off-campus students would be living would create more diversity in an otherwise rather homogeneous student body. A mass off-campus migration would also leave the administration with a lot of empty rooms, something which will influence policy in favor of those wishing to, or forced to, stay on campus. 
Ben Donovan junior 
Student Union fiasco 
DearEditor: 
During spring break we traveled to Aspen, 
Colorado on a Student Union sponsored and 
organized ski trip. Although we had a great 
time skiing, we were extremely disappointed 
with the way the trip was organized. 
In fact, the trip was so poorly run by the Student Union representatives, Alyson Miller and Deborah Hickey, who did not have to pay for the trip, that we would not recommend a Student Union sponsored trip to anyone. 
Let us cite a few of the more blatant ex­
amples of the Student Union's and group 
leader's unexcusably poor organization and 
management of the trip. First, we were told 
that bus transportation was too expensive, al­though the buses to Florida were very reasonably priced. 
Instead, we traveled,in compact cars with­out ski racks that ended up costing ap­proximately $80 per person, even though five persons were squeezed into each car. When we arrived at Aspen we were not given the Summit Party Cards that were a part ofour ski package and were necessary for admittance to all ofthe group activities planned by the travel agency. 
Although the condominium accomoda­tions were excellent, they lacked the pool and jacuzzi we were promised and they were defmitely not within walking distance of the ski slopes. 
Although we could go on to cite numerous other problems, we think the ones mentioned are enough to give a good idea of the overall poor quality of the Student Union trip management. To prevent a reccurrence ofthis situation, we are submitting a complete list of the problems to the Student Union. 
Hopefully, with more careful planning and control and selection of more competent and courteous trip representatives, fiascos such as this year's trip can be alleviated before they occur. 
Kevin Campo, 
Mareen Clune, 
.George Raikos 
----------------------~ 

Ruppe is sound choice 
DearEditor: 
Your April 13 editorial on the choice of Peace Corps Director Loret Ruppe as com­mencement speaker had the uncertain credibility that one might expect from an ldi Amin writing on human rights or James Watt writing on diplomacy. You may see that even by the use of these names the issue is polarized. 
Distorting Mrs. Ruppe's values by calling her pro-abortion is similar to labeling her a Bolshevik pig, or a Red sympathizer in 1950, it's a loaded term and not fair in your usage. As with parts ofthe Alcohol Policy, this approach insensitively closes the issue to proper discus­sion. 
You can see that Mrs. Woidat, in her letter to the editor on April 18, quickly focused in on this single volatile issue, with a judgement which her daughter may not in fact share. 
The controversy concerning tape recorded conversations with a Peace Corps deputy, seems to be little more than the backwash from the much larger whirlpool that Ed Meese found himself caught in because of his own indiscretions. 
Loret Ruppe has reinstilled the Peace Corps with an Esprit de corps and vision that has been absent from the organization since the departure ofSargent Shriver. Loret Ruppe has taken an organization that was at its nadir, and has restored it in the world community as a respected human service organization. 
Within weeks of her appointment, the in­
tegrity of the Peace Corps was jeopardized 
when her department was to report to a CIA 
alumnus. Loret Ruppe showed that she was 
both a competent administrator and a quick 
thinking "street fighter" when she successful· 
ly opposed that arrangement. 
Thus, in an important way, she helped to regain much of the credibility that the Peace Corps had lost because of previous dealings with Central Intelligence. The deputy whose conversations were recorded had allegedly both resisted Mrs. Ruppe direction and covertly her leadership. 
The job of Peace Corps director demands a tremendous amount of travel to coordinate a thin world-wide organization, hence it is criti­cal that Loret Ruppe have reliable deputies. 
The deputy in question had reportedly lied 
to her on various occasions and was subvert­
ing her leadership. Therefore recording these 
conversations within the organization was 
primarily a defensive manoeuvere albeit an in­
discreet one. 
The effectiveness restored to the Peace 
Corps, and the newfound integrity and vision 
that Loret Ruppe has given that organization 
should alone be enough to qualify her to be 
commencement speaker. At Notre Dame we 
have demonstrated an unyielding commit­
ment to social concerns both here and abroad. 
To honor someone who shares with us this Christian zeal and love is only natural. 
As a woman and parent, Loret Ruppe has, with her husband Phil, raised six beautiful children, while managing two homes in both Maryland and Michigan while Phil served as Congressman from Michigan. 
As an unpaid administrator, volunteer or board member she has managed countless projects and events to serve her community. Your editorial challenged Mrs. Ruppe's credentials with an insensitivity hinting of sexism, as ifyou expected her resume to em­ulate that ofa primary wage earner. 
Had Loret been professionally employed, and her husband at home rearing six children, then her resume would more accurately reflect the dynamism and skill ofthe outstand­ing person that I personally know her to be. 
I would like to commend our administra­tion for an exceptional choice. Loret Ruppe is truly worthy to succeed others we have previously honored;John Kennedy, the Presi­dent who established the Peace Corps ( Laetare Medal '61 ); Kathyrn Graham, the publisher of the newspaper that exposed Watergate (commencement '74); and Robert Sargent Shriver, the first Director ofthe Peace Corps (Laetare Medal '68) 
David Koppana Graduate Student in Theology 
Paranoid policy 

DearEditor: 
As a high school senior last year, I looked forward to coming to Notre Dame this year. I had heard from many sources that I would receive a complete education at this univer­sity. I expected that while I was being chal­lenged academically I also would mature both socially and morally and upon my graduation I would have received this so-called complete education. 
Instead, I am now awakened to the reality that I attend a school with a paranoid ad­ministration who has lost all perspective of educating young adults in the 1980s. I receive much more trust and responsibility from my parents who realize that I cannot be protected in a glass bubble away from all the world's problems. · 
Instead of concentrating with the overall welfare of the students, this administration focuses its attention on liability and the "golden" image ofNotre Dame. The events of the past week are sterling examples of an at­titude that the administration has been displaying all year long. 
This attitude sees the administration as the 
all-knowing parent who controls the 
troublesome child otherwise known as the 
student body. This school has the unique 
combination of great students and rectors 
who can work together to implement a realis­
tic policy. Unfortunately, a realistic policy was 
not adopted. 
I sincerely believe that ifthe administration and student government could work togeth­er, a viable solution can be found. If the ad­ministration persists in ignoring realities, I see catastrophic consequences for the future of Notre Dame. 
Matt Corrigan Freshman 
Traffic deaths 

DearEditor: 
Hey Father Beauchamp and Father Hes­. burgh get a clue! As one of the students on 
campus who does not drink, I can truly ap­
preciate your concern and feeling of need to 
take action on this matter, but let's do it in a 
responsible and realistic manner. 
Obviously, you feel that a Notre Dame de­
gree is the most important thing to anyone 
attending school here and that because ofthis 
beliefthe administration can take any action it 
deems warranted without prolonged student 
protest. I think that you are about to find out 
how wrong that beliefis. 
Students here will only put up with so much 
before they take extreme action. Think about 
the costs of such action: It won't be long 
before your policy hits the nationwide press 
and when it does you can bet the publicity 
will be neither fair nor unbiased. Once this 
happens you can bet alumni will get involved 
and what happens if they side with the stu­
dents? Unless I am mistaken a fair amount of 
money comes from those alumni, what hap­
pens ifit stops coming in? What about incom­
ing freshman and transfer students who will 
hear about the matter and take the attitude of 
realizing just how uncooperative and un· 
Iars will cure a diseased and now dead social life? 
You know it's amazing, we are supposedly 
the most brilliant students in America, with a 
supposedly equally brilliant administration 
and they come up with a plan that looks like it 
was drawn up by fourth graders. Fr. Beauc­
hamp says, "The whole party scene leads to 
alcohol abuse, so we've got to eliminate it." 
Well I tell you what Father, why don't you go 
ahead and do that and when you're finished 
why don't you and Father Hesburgh go to 
Congress and get a Jaw passed banning cars on 
American roads, after all they do lead to a 
whole lot oftraffic deaths. 
Reginald V. Daniel Sophomore 

Realistic concern 
DearEditor: 
Having just learned of the University's new 
policy with regard to studenr socializing on 
campus, I am somewhat disturbed. 
First, I would like to acknowledge your ap­
parent good intentions behind the recent 
decision to limit students' parties on campus 
to twice the number of people as those resi­
dents who host the gathering. 
Nevertheless, I feel that this policy is ex­
cessive and fails to recognize circumstances 
peculiar to the geographic location and stu­
dents, characteristics ofNotre Dame. 
As you know, Notre Dame's campus is its 
own enclave, for the most part severed by dis· 
tance and a paucity of social attractions from 
the city of South Bend. Despite my own 
gregarious nature and incessant search for 
socializing, I only ventured into South Bend 
on a few occasions during my years at Notre 
Dame. 
I honestly felt quite fortunate that my desire 
to meet and mingle with students in a non­
academic setting could be satiated by visiting 
parties held in various dorms on weekends. 
Many fond memories and lasting friendships 
derived from my attendance of many such 
soirees. 
Furthermore, I can not recall one instance 
of serious personal or property harm at­
tributable to such parties. Resident Assistants 
were always close at hand, though their 
services were rarely required. 
Notre Dame fortunately requires of its stu­
dents a tedious and demanding academic ef­
fort during the week. Weekend parties, even 
large ones -served more than just to allow 
students to indulge in some beer. It enabled 
them to deservedly relax and to create and to 
strengthen friendships with fellow men and 
women from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
community. I feel sorry for those young adults 
whowill now be deprived ofthis opportunity. 
Finally, I want to express my realistic con­
cern that this decision will certainly lead to more accidents -perhaps fatal -by causing more students to transplant their socializing -off-campus. Obviously, some students will 
drink too much. 
I would rather have this take place on 
campus than off; where not only an irrespon­
sible or overzealous student suffers the conse-· 
quences ofoverdrinking, but where innocent 
people will be endangered. 
I appreciate your concern for the health 
and safety ofthe youngadults on campus, but I 
ardently disagree with this decision and hope 
it will be reconsidered. 
jeffrey Alan Thinnes Notre Dame Class of'79 

Another damp day 
DearEditor: 
Tuesday morning I woke up, but I did not look out my window. Upon leaving the dorm, I was surprised at the sight of snow falling. It was going to be another damp, dreary day for Domers. 
Later that morning, as reached for The Ob­server at the dining hall, I noticed the faces of those people reading the article regarding the new alcohol policy. I wondered, on this damp, dreary day for Domers, "Is a wet campus really a happy campus?" 
Kevin Cullen Freshman 

consid~ring a bunch of "old men" in p_ower Editor's Note: Viewpoint has received many c_an be. And lastly, what a~out the d!s!llu-letters to the editor regarding the current al­S!Oned students already here. How often have cobol issue. It is impossiblefor The Observer we been promised an Undergraduate Club to print all of them. Therefore, Viewpoint and renovated Student Center and it has not will attempt to represent as many opinions been delivered? And what if you deliver, do aspossible by selectivepublication. 
you seriously believe that a few thousand dol­

The Observer Wednesday, April 2 5, 1984 -page 10 

Buying your leased phone now saves you time and money next term. 
This year, don't leave for home without your phone. Buy it before sum­mer and save yourself some time and money. Buying your AT&T leased phone now means you'll have your phone with you the very first day back to class. 
To buy the phone you're leasing, just call AT&T Consumer Sales & Service's toll-free number. Or visit any of our AT&T owned and operated Phone Centers. It's that easy. So call us before you say goodbye. Then unplug your phone and take it with you. And have a nice summer. 
1-800-555-8111 
Call this toU-free nwnber 24 hours a day. 

Mishawaka 6502 North Grape 




ATs.T 
<l:l 1984. AT&T Information Systems 



Showcase 
Wednesday, April 25, 1984 -page 11 
Movies 


New Tarzan not an adventure filnt 
by Cat Francis 
features copy editor _ 
T
here I was, sitting in the theatre, eating my popcorn and waiting for Warner Brothers' new film, "Greystoke: The Legend ofTarzan, Lord of the Apes." 
"This is going to be Adventure," I thought. "This is going to be Tarzan swinging on vines, fighting elep­hants, beating his chest and all sorts ofgood stuff." 
It wasn't. 
"Greystoke" is, more than any­thing else, a psychological movie. It shows the mental struggles ofa human caught between the demands of the society in which he was raised and the society into which he is pulled. Christopher Lambert, playing Lord Clayton (Tarzan), shows the inner battle ofa man who exits the jungles ofAfrica and moves into a more perilous and complex jungle, human society. 
The movie is filmed beautifully. The viewer is treated to shots of waterfalls, towering trees, a mul­titude ofwild animals and later, to the beauties of the English 



Records 
countryside. However, I have some bones to pick with "Greystoke." It has been advertised as being absolutely true to the book by Edgar Rice Burroughs and the advertisers have been a little smug about this. But there were enough discrepancies to bother anyone who has read the book 
The major irritant lies in the fact that although the movie is subtitled "The Legend ofTarzan, Lord ofthe Apes," the name Tarzan is never mentioned in the movie. Lambert is referred to throughout the film as Lord Clayton. I have nothing against this except for the fact that ifsome­thing is mentioned in the title, it should be included in the movie. 
"Greystoke" is long -two and a halfhours. The beginning uses up excessive time amoung the apes, proceeding at a plodding pace which continues until Clayton arrives in England. 
The apes are wonderful. The makeup is painstaking and flawless. 
John Huston, the movie's director, 
hired Roger Fouts, an expert on 
primates, as a consultant for the film 
and Fouts' efforts add greatly to the 
realistic appearances. 
"Greystoke" contains the last screen appearance ofSir Ralph Ric­hardson, who died last year. Ric­hardson is delightful as the 6th Earl ofGreystoke, Clayton's grandfather. His performance is nicely comple­mented by the acting ofAnnie Mac­Dowell, who playsjane Porter, the Earl's American ward. 
Huston is best known for his work, "Chariots of Fire" and "Greystoke" contains several ofthe actors from that movie. Among these are Cheryl Campbell, who plays Clayton's mother, and Ian Holm, who plays Phillippe d'Arnot, the Belgian explorer who is saved by Clayton and later takes him back to England. 
The movie is filled with emotion, perhaps because ofthe series of people who die in Clayton's arms. This gets a trifle tiresome, but I couldn't help reflecting that under the same circumstances, like Clayton, I might have, ifyou'll excuse the expression ... gone ape. 

99 Luftballoons a one-song albunt 



Kevin Williams 
features staff writer 
I
fever an album had a single song as its selling point, Nena's 99 Lufthallons is that album. The title cut has been at the top ofthe charts in Europe and America for months. But as for the rest of the album ­not very impressive. 
99 Lufthallons suffers from one 
very serious deficiency -engineer­
ing. The few good qualities that the 
album might possess are hidden by 
the generally poor quality ofthe 
recording itself. 
Because ofthe extremely low 
record level on both the LP and cas­
sette versions ofthe album, the 
volume on a stereo must be turned 
up so high that noises like turntable 
rumble and tape hiss become annoy­ing. Better stereo systems will eliminate some of this noise, but even the most expensive stereo can't compensate for a poor mixing job. 
Ordinarily, well engineered al­bums combine the separate tracks -individual instruments, voices, etc. -into a finished product that highlights the good qualities of the individual elements. 99 Luftballons fails to do this. 
It is dominated by a bass drum that obscures almost all of the in­strumentation and most of the vo­cals. 99 Luftballons has some very good saxophone and keyboard sec­tions, but these are generally con­cealed by a pounding, driving beat. 


Given a decent production,99 Luftballons would not be a bad al­bum -maybe not awe inspiring, but once you get around the bass drum, definitely listenable. 
The album's format -one side of English songs and a second side of German songs -seemsonly natural for a German band trying to make it big in America 
The English side ofthe album shows offthe band more than the German side. There are some interesting saxophone lines in the songs"?" and "Let Me Be Your Pirate," which also happens to con­tain some minor guitar brilliance. 
"Let Me Be Your Pirate" is one of the better cuts on the album. It is a slow-paced song, reminiscent of some older Lou Reed tunes. The drumming highlights the sound in­stead ofsmothering it. Unfortunate­ly, this is about the only song where this is true. 
"Let Me Be Your Pirate" closes out the first side and "Kino" opens the second. It starts out with a good in­troduction without any drums ­good enough to get your hopes up. But before long, the bass drum en­ters. 
The album ends with the title cut, "99 Luftballons." The lead singer, presumably Nena, has a very good voice, and this song shows it off well. Again, engineering problems give one the impression that she's singing out ofa closet, but at least it sounds like the door is open. 
99 Luftballons is not a debut al­bum on a par with that ofa group like Asia, but there is probably a good reason. It seems reasonable to guess that Nena did not have a con­tract with a major studio prior to recording their album, and hence had to pay for their own studio time. It wouldn't be difficult, especially in Germany, to find an inexpensive recording studio where a small band could cut an album. 
99 Lufthallons is not a g.reat al­bum, but Ncna has potential. 
Record provided by Music/and in University Park Mall. 
Fighting over cats and dogs  
by Cat Francis features copy editor  
In the April 16 edition of"The Observer," Paul Cimino presented us with an article entitled "On the SuperiorityofDogs." In answer to the multitude ofoutraged readers who, Iam convinced, are crying out in the wilderness ofindignation, I am presenting the other side of the story. Why, Cimino asks, are Garfield and Heathcliffso popular? The answer should be apparent. Cats, because of their intelligence and independence, simply are more capable of humor than dogs. Dogs are too busy fawning over people to have time out for a good joke. At this point, someone may bring up the subject ofSnoopy. Snoopy is an exception in the annals ofdoggie-dom, exhibiting none ofthe characteristic servility and drooling enthusiasm so common to canines. This leads me to believe Snoopy is a farce perpetuated by two particularly active cats in a beagle costume. Before anyone accuses me ofbeinga dog-hater, I will observe that I own a dog. Her name is Suzie. She is a dalmatian. She sleeps on the foot ofmy bed. She does not sleep there out ofany sense ofloyalty, but because she likes my electric blanket. Susie has clearly demonstrated to me the true extent ofcanine in­telligence. How smart can an animal be who, after the 500th time she has heard the word "walk" mentioned in conversation, still runs frantically for her leash? How smart is a creature who, at least once per day, crawls under the sofa and gets trapped? How intelligent is a beast who thinks Frisbees are edible? Suzie is the original Destructomatic Dog. She has chewed count­less shoes, not to mention baskets, purses, rolls ofpaper towels, books and a wastebasket, into ribbons. The debris from this activity is piled by the dog under the dining room table, where she, under the illusion that she is a giant hamster, appears to be building a nest. Cats, aside from the occasional claw mar,k, leave no permanent damage. The legend ofman's best friend is a myth. Any dog who runs into a burning house is not thinking about saving his or her master but rather considering the perishability offood dishes. The same applies to burglars. A dog who barks at intruders is not trying to save the household possessions, but protecting the steak bone concealed un­der an armchair. Acat doesn't even bother pretending loyalty. They let you know exactly where you stand early in the game. Dogs are motivated by food, and they will go to any length to preserve their pipeline to it. If this means jumping all over a person when he comes home, or fetching slippers, or sitting up and doing ridiculous but cute tricks, they'll do it. I've never seen a cat rolling over and playing dead for a bowlful ofKibbles n' Bits.  

I 




Sports Briefs 
The College Of ScienCe Dean's 7K run will be held this Saturday, April 28, at 9:30a.m. Registration for the race, which will f(Jllow a course around the lakes, will be in Nieuwland room 229 until Friday. The S3. 50 registration fee includes a T-shirt. -The Obsen1er 
The SMC softball te3lll swept a doubleheader 
against Taylor University yesterday, 10-6, 0-1. Annie Day and Julie Kieghen were the winning pitchers. Barb Theiss hit 2·for-2 and had thrt.·e RIHs and Jeanine Adams hit 2-for·3 and had two RBis in the first game. In the second game, Theiss had one RBI, and Kris Pantelleria had two RIHs. -The Obsen•er 
The ND-SMC SailingClubwill hold an important 
meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in room 204 O'Shag. All members should attend. -The Observer 
The An Tostal 5K Charity Run will be held this Saturday, April 28 at 9:30 a.m. Registration is at 8:30 a.m. at Stepan Center, and a S2 fee for charity is requested. For information, call Chris at 8796. -The Observer 
Wednesday, April 2 5, 1984 -page 12 
The Weightlifting Club will sponsor a bench 
press and squatting meet Saturday, May 5, at 1 p.m. There will be men's and women's weight classes and medals will be awarded to first through third places in each class. The meet is open to everyone, including varsity athletes. Sign up at Rockne weight room or call Pat ( 8762) or Mark ( 11 56). Fee is $2. -The Observer 
The Dancin' Irishwill hold an organizational meeting today, April 25, at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater for all interested in being on the 1984·1985 squad. Information will be provided on the upcoming tryouts. Those who cannot attend should call Patti Whitehouse (8027) or Jan Albrecht ( 4304). -The Ob­server 
The An Tostal Golf Tournament will be 
held today, April 25, at 1 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Participants may simply show up at the golfcourse before 1 p.m this afternoon. Awards will be given to first three finishers. -The Ob­
server 

The Fellowship of Christian Athletes is meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Hayes-Healey room 20. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 14 
Baseball team takes doubleheader 
The Notre Dame baseball team improved its record to 16-1 7 with a sweep ofa doubleheader against Val· paraiso yesterday. 
In the first contest, the Irish won, 9-5, in eight innings. Captain Carl Vuono blasted a grand slam in the bottom of the first extra inning to give Notre Dame the victory. 
Tom Conlin went the distance for the Irish and improved his record to 3·3. 
Notre Dame took the second game by a score of 8·7, also in eight innings. Jackie Moran knocked in the game-winning run in the bottom of the inning. 
Mark Clementz got the win in relief, improving his record to 2-4. 
The Irish take on Bowling Green in a doubleheader today on Jake Kline Field at 1 p.m. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. unti14 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggotr College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next·day dassifieds is .~ p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac·



Classifieds 
ters ,erda 
NOTICES 

PROFESSIONAL TYPING AT LOW PRICES REPORTS RESEARCH PAPERS LEGAL DOCUMENTS RESUMES COVER LETTERS CONTACT TEAl BAN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 234·4045 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4012 
PROFESSIONAL TYPIST. IBM SELECTRIC II. BUSINESS & ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE. 272-3134. 
LOUIE'S FAMILY STYLE ITALIAN RESTAURANT·corner ol Notre Dame and South Bend Avenues( 100 teet from the bars) 1,50 otff any large pizza 
WE HAVE THE LOWEST AIRFARES TO EUROPE! FOR FREE COLOR BROCHURE, WRITE TO: CAMPUS TRAVEL, BOX 11387, ST. LOUIS, 110 63105. 
EXPERT TYPIST 277·8534 AFTER 5:30 
.................... 

EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME THESES, TERM PAPERS, ETC. CALL MRS. COKER. 233· 7009 
PHONEBOOKSEXTRAPHONEBOOKS AT OBUD DESK IN LAFORTUNE A GREAT MEMORANDUM OF 83-84' FREE TO ALL 
To-morrow. and lo-morrow, and to­morrow, Creeps In this petty pace from day to day· And still we'll be reading A Shakespeare poem or play,, Come hear us on the New Mall til April 29 
CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS WE'RE NOT DRY, GIVE US A TRY CALL THE VOCATION OFFICE! 
HAVE YOU PAID YOUR BILL TODAY? Donate time or money to the Shakespeare Maralhon Reading. On the New Mall, oulside LaFortune, from April 25-29, Proceeds to benelil Prot Milan• and lamily. 
LOST/FOUND 

Los! Keys: Between Stepan Courts and Library. Please call3125, 
LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 4B. GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC· TANGLE). MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN· TAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO FATHER IN 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT 
PLEASE RETURN MEDAL CALL PAUL 272 0746 OR ANN·MAAIE 284 5087. 
Lost: two 1ackets at Morrissey saturday night One was a blue Notre Dame windbreaker and the olher was a plain blue windbreaker, They were left 1n the basement restroom. II found please call aat 1087 or 6666. Thank· you very much. 
FOUND: BASKETBALL AT STEPAN COURTSAT7:150NTHURS4/12CALL 12150R 1148TO IDENTIFY . 
LOST: SE!KO watch Monday in Hayes· Healy Please call 1955 Thanks 
LOST BASKETBALL LOST AT STEPAN COURTS ON SAT. AFTERNOON DURING GIRLS BOOKSTORE GAME NEAR COURT 7. NAME IS ON THE BALL IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL BEN AT8797. 
LOST: ALL INTELLIGENCE AND SANITY. HOW COULD I MAKE SUCH AN ASSININE ALCOHOL POLICY? IF ANYONE CAN FIND EITHER OF THESE MISSING PROPERTIES OR IF ANYONE CAN FIND ANYTHING OF ANY VALUE THAT I COULD USE. PLEASE CALL ME, FR. BEAUCHAMP. AT 5690 OR 5779. 
Found: black Aspen baseball cap: found in Math bldn .. morning of 4 18: call 8330 
lost: a Walker Cup 3 iron on 9th hole. pis call8329 
lost:Set of keys on brown leather tag with initials MB" lllound call 4565 
LOST: LIGHT BLUE NOTRE DAME BOOK BAG WITH LEATHER BROWN BOT­TOll FILLED WITH E.E. NOTES IN A J. RING BLACK BINDER. PLEASE RETURN TO DANNY 1817. NO QUES. TIONS ASKEDIIIIIII 
FOR RENT 
WA"lJ;f.D FEMALE ROOMMATE SUM· MEA~t'SESSION nice house good neighborhood Furnished except tor your bedroom, 1 1/4 mile !rom campus $140. Mo & 1/2 of utilities. Call Coleen alter 7:00 234·9970 
HOUSES · Furnished, Close to campus 4·6 Bedrooms. 2 Balhs CALL 277·3461 
Graduate students. 4·bedroom home. luJ. ly lurnished including utilities lor summer months, $300/mo, 288-3109. 
FOR RENT: SUMMER SUB-LETTING FOR TURTLE CREEK APT. NEGQ. TIABLE RATE II CALL 277 ·8497 
WANTED 
CHOOSE LIFE FOR YOUR BABY! CONSIDER THE OPTION OF ADOP­TIONIINFERTILE COUPLE WANTS TO ADOPT INFANT. WRITE P.O. BOX 5398, FT. WAYNE, IN 48805. 
PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST tt. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239· 53t30R277·485t. 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED, CALL PAUL AT239·53t3 or 277-485t. 
TEXAS BOUND? I'm gonna be heading lo Houston on the Monday after gradua· tlon (May 2t) and I need a rider, The car's not huge (a Honda), so plan to leave your baby grand piano here. Also. chain smokers need no! apply. Call Mark al 8765 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $18,559 $50,553/yr. Now hiring, Your area. Call t·805·687·6000. Ext A·9834, 
ROOMATE NEEDED NEXT YEAR SEAN <'17·1405 
20 PEOPLE NEEDED FOR ACC SUPER SALE WORK THIS WEEKEND. $5 PER HR. SEE MARKATACCON FRIDAY BE· lWEEN 8 & 9 A.M, 
Roommale needed lo move OC on June t Call MIKE 277 ·6463 
WANT TO SUMMER IN SOUTH BEND? We need care lor house. lawn and two children. ages t 0 & t2. Approx 9 to 4. M· 
F. from 6/11 thru 8/3t. (llexible) In· lerested Coeds with cars call Peg or Jim, evenings. 288·2449. 
Help Wanted · Tulor. College graduate with high LSA T score wanted to teach LSA T review course lor test preparation cenler. Call272·4135, 
Ride needed to DAYTON this weekend call Katie · 687 4 
MUSICIANS 
"'THE LAW" 
ND'a Hottest Party Band Ia looking for 
a hllentecl b ..a player for the 1984-85 
year. Call283-3280 for an audHion. 
FOR SALE 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL (312) 742-1142, EXT. 7316. 
FOR SALE: FURNITURE: BEDS. BARS, COUCH ETC. CALL 233· 7665 
t978 Honda CX500 motorcycle: metallic black, shah·drive; waler·cooled; padded cissy bar; 20,000 miles: twin-Y engine: call277-1914 or 288·0358, 
t983 Honda Aero, 50cc. 300 mi. Like new. Call277·3465. 
··················'······..;,;..:.............................,, 
Greatlridge lor sale! Call3265. 
TICKETS 
N~;;;;·:rici<iirs·;~;··iiiiAouP:riot.i·.··;;·~,i 
Joel at 1570 

N:ED Commancamant Tickets! Willing to pay a reasonable price, Call Terry at 8764, 
GRANDPARENTS TRAVELLING FROM HAWAII FOR GRADUATION NEED TIX DESPERATELY CALL BILL AT 1079 
need 2 graduation lix. 232·6085 
YES . ., YES.. I will trade 2 YES tix lor 2 NO commence. tix, or will consider selling 'em. Call Dan 287·6273 & leave message. 
Have 2 Yes tix, 7th row. 6830, 
I need to buy several commencement tickets, Need no! be togelher, Jim 1572. 
NEED GRDUATION TIX DESPERATE· LVIII Relalives coming !rom abroad. Will pay CA$HIII Call Greg·33t7. 
PERSONALS 
UMOC IS HEREIIIII VOTE FOR UMOC IN THE DINING HALLS TODAY , TOMORROW AND FRIDAY. 
Summer Olympic tickets lor sale· call An· na Marie at 1335 
!love Mark Boennlnghausen's stun. (I really do,) 
Yes. NO. il's the big 22(double that for chest size) for Ann Marie LOPES" Juckniess today, Call her at 5234(smc) to wish her a happy day. Vroom, vroom., Luv ya. Guess who?? 
MELINDA. MELINDA WILL YOU PLEASE OH PLEASE RETURN ONCE AGAIN TO THE DEMOCRATIC CLUB? ILL GET YOU THAT YUKON JACK? I MAY BE FROM GOSHEN BUT I CAN COMMUTE. YOURS IN SHOTS DAVE 
MELINDA· WHO IS DAVE FROM GOS· HEN? I THOUGHT YOU WERE GOING TO LET US TEACH YOU TO POLKA. LOVE CHET THE BARTENDER AND JOE THE ACCOUNTANT 
USA D. YOU SAY YOU FEEL NEGLECTED, UNLOVED, HOW CAN YOU FEEL THAT WAY AFTER OUR LONG, LONG FRIDAY NIGHT. I THOUGHT I WAS SPECIAL ... YOU ARE TOO CRUEL.. I CAN GIVE YOU ALL 
THE LOVE YOU NEED, WE GOS. HENITES ARE SPECIAL PEOPLE. LOVECHET 
HI. THERE 
HEY SHOWTIME: Don'! you guys know that you don't press !he other team when you're ahead 20·0. C'mon. Show some class -thai is if you have any! 
MARTIN LUTHER, WHERE ARE YOU WHEN WE NEED YOU? T 
SOCIAL LIFE HELD HOSTAGE · DAY 9 
LOOKING FOR LATENIGHTTHRILLS? Then The Observer Production Depart· ment mighl be jus! whal you are looking lor. Only energetic enthusiastic persons wrth a sense of humor need apply, Begin· ners work 2 hr./week shifts, Talent and enthusiasm will soon lead to a prestigious paying position on this award-winning publicalion, Bring a friend, bring a relative. bring a pen lo fill out an applicalion ... at The Observer office, 3-d floor LaFortune. This week. Questions about this limiled offer? Call Margarel, 239-5303 tor delails. 
KEEP CAVEMAN CROUTH ALIVE BRIAN CROUTH HAS EMERGED FROM ST. ED'S AND WILL ATTEMPT TO SURVIVE OUTDOORS FOR FIVE DAYS WITHOUT ANY OF THE NECES· SITIES OF LIFE, IT'S UP TO YOU, NOTRE DAME. TO KEEP CROUTH ALIVE. ALL DONATIONS GO TO UMOC. KEEP CROUTH ALIVE! 
15/ oft! 75 cants oft! Freel 1/3 oft! $2 oft! 10/ oft! Coupons In the Yellow Pages of your Campus Telephone Directory! 
Want to try something new? Sae coupons In the Yellow Pages of your C..,pus Telephone Directory. 
SPECIAL THANKS FROM THE BIRTHDAY GIRL To Mike next year won'! be the same without you To Kristin Ann Tommy Ken Nancy and th~ res! of Lewis 2·North Love ya. Kim 
FRISBEE GOLF 
Come play !he six·hole Pebble Beach of Noire Dame Frisbee-Go~ Course (4:30 p,m, Salurday), Bring your own frisbee to 
lo the bench in Iron! of Holy Cross HaiL For more details, call Keith at 283·8866, 
Daisies! Daisies! Buy your An Tostal daisies! Today in the dining hall from 4:30 to 6. $1.50, Delivered Thursday, Show someone you care a 
bunch, Ride wanted to University of Iowa, Iowa City. Leave 4-27 (anytime) nd return 4-29. Call1479, ask for John M. 
THEO MAJORS: Don't mlq the presentation by Bill Cavanaugh and John Markey tonight, Aprll25, at 10:00 PM In room 331 O'Shaughnessy. Be there to support your fellow stUdents! 
MAUREEN DARLING-WHY MUST YOU CONSTANTLY SHUN MY AFFEC· TIONS??? THERE IS SUCH LITTLE TIME LEFT FOR US .. QUARTER BEERS NEXT TUESDAY NITE??? I'LL SPEND ANY AMOUNT ON YOU. EVEN ... YOU KNOW ... SIGNED YOU KNOW THAT TOOl!! 
STEVE DEMARTINO for UMOCII 
Who's uglier !han Yoko Ono? STEVE DEMARTINO·for UMOCI 
The man of your dreams lives in 150·t51 Alumni Hall. 
To the live on Foster and Alvis. you guys made for an incredible Easter, We've never been lrealed better, Thanks so much! Love the Boss Bettys 
GOOD JOB BOOKSTORE SCOREKEEPERS!! KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK AS WE HEAD INTO THE HOMESTRETCH. 
TOM RYAN · You have my vole lor C.M.O.C, (Clueless Man On Campus)! I hear you chipped a golf balllhrough your window. Way to go as-h-leI Get a real identHy, 
PETE HELDMAN · We hear !hal you got your clothes back. So are you bac k to wearing three shirts al a time? Why do you do !hat? Why did you refuse to go to SYR's with so many ol us? Why do you answer your telephone Pale Heldman"? Get a clue! Some friends at SMC 
ANTOSTAL'S IRISH WAKE ANTOS.. TAL'S IRISH WAKE THE BIGGEST DANCE OF THE YEAR WILL TAKE PLACE THIS: !Ill SATURDAY NIGHT 1111 al S!epan Center from 91ill2 FEATURING !he FAMOUS CHIAGO BAND: ARIAN" and a O,J,: THE ENTERTAINERS" ON· 
LY$2 
LISA, 
I counl the days we have left !his semes· ler And I beg you to Iorge! Jim. Cam, Tom. & Lester I want lo spend all my lime wilh you You're so sweet and pretty and can pound a few So don't let me down, promise me your 
heart !love you, !love you. My Little Sweetheart You Know Who 

Words of Wisdom from C. Preppa: DRINK! When we drink, -gatdrunk. When we gat drunk, we go to sleep. When -go to sleep, we commit no sin. When we commit no sin, -go to heaven. So...Let's all GET DRUNK AND GO TO HEAVEN!II 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIIIIIII 
$$$$$$Beat the rush!! Sell ymr used textbook now!! Book buying hours Mon· Thur t·4pm only, Pandora Books 937 South Bend Ave. 
Does your roommale jusllook like he lUSt got hit by a semi on U.S, 3t? II so, grab your penmes. and vote him lor U,M,O.C, 
RETURNING STUDENTS PREPARE FOR THIS SUMMER AND NEXT YEAR Buy a Quality used car lor less than $175 GET THE MONEY TOGETHER YOUR· SELF. OR GET YOUR FRIENDS TO PITCH IN TEN BUCKS APIECE, AND SHARE This 69 Mercury runs great Insure Cheap Transportation OFF CAMPUS Next Year CALL 283--t866 FOR INFO,. AND A TEST DRIVE INSURE FUN FOR NEXT YEAR Don'tgo"DRY," go Drive"· 
I Need just t GRADUATION TIC· MIKE 277·3242 
HOW'S YOUR GERRY FAUST, RICH LITTLE, DAVE LETTERMAN? BETTER PRACTICE UP. THE AN TOSTAL IM­PERSONATION CONTEST IS COMING SOON, CONTACT YOUR HALL REP IF INTERESTED. 
IsH morally right for the editor ol a quarter· ly magazine to only put out three issues? 
CAMELOTIII CAIIELOTIII CAMELOTIII 

Gal your tlckata now for the blggaat 
production In the hlatoryofthe NO Stu­
dent Playeral On sale now at the S.U. 
Record Store, the Olaughlin Box Oftlce 
and the Century Canter box onlce. 
Come-
CAMELOT! TICKETS ARE GOING FAST!! 

If Jesus had been at Notre DMne, he would have been expelled for chanst lng the water Into wine. 
LOOKING FOR A LITTLE EXCITEMENT TO FILL UP ALL THOSE DRY EVENINGS NEXT YEAR? JOIN THE 08· SERVER PRODUCTION DEPART· MENT! LEARN THE NEWSPAPER LAYOUT BUSINESS AND HAVE FUN TOO, IN ONLY lWO HOURS A WEEK. QUICK PROMOTIONS TO PAYING POSITIONS FOR THOSE WHO SHOW POTENTIAL AND ENTHUSIASM. HARD TO BELIEVE, ISN'T IT? BUT YOU BET· TEA ACT QUICKLY IF YOU WANT TO BE PART OF THIS LIMITED OFFER. STOP BY THE LAFORTUNE 08· SERVER OFFICE THIS WEEK TO FILL OUT AN APPLICATION. Questions about this fabulous offer? Call 239·5303 and ask lor Margaret 
BEER, BEER FOR ALL NOTRE DAME YOU BRING THE WHISKEY I'LL BRING CHAMPAGNE SEND A FRESHMAN OUT FOR GIN DON'T LET A SOBER PERSON IN WE WONT STAGGER, WE WONT FALL WE SOBER UP ON GRAIN ALCOHOL WHILE OUR DRUNKEN FRIENDS ARE STAGGERING UP TO THE BAR FOR MORE 
COLLEEN AMBROSE IS A GODDESS 

The Observer Wednesday, April25, 1984-page 13 


Baltimore seeks stay 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -An attorney for Bal· timore asked a U.S. appellate panel yesterday to stay a lower court order requiring the city to notify the Na­tional FootballLeague it will halt its lawsuit seeking to block the transfer of the Colts' franchise to In­dianapolis. 
"We filed the papers this morning (with the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals)," said attorney Edwin Thomas. 
The motion for the emergency stay was taken under advisement by the appellate court. Thomas said an­other motion was ftled to allow Bal· timore to continue with its condemnation suit, a legal strategy which would allow the city to wrest ownership of the team from Robert lrsay. 
No date for a ruling on either mo­tion was set immediately. lrsay moved the team from Baltimore to Indianapolis on March 
28. 
Bookstore results and pairings 
Yesterday's Results 
Stepan 1 Big Swahilis over Spurlin' Spartans by 3 Team 136 over Fr. B. & the Beer Bongs by 2 Scratch Tw1ce & the 3 Itches over Kennedy & Co. 
by2 Jimmy G. & the Spots over John Murphy's Slime Train V by 8 WBBS On The Air Again over Armadillo 5 by 8 Stepan2 
Shysters over Duffy's $.50 Balloon Club by 12 The Modern Lovers over Hoop da Doop by 9 Corby Tooters over Hoosiers by 6 
Stepan 3 Anyplace, Anytime over Spud & the 4 Studs by 4 Short On Height over Rag1n· Ca1uns by 5 
Stepen4 John 3:16over The Vacuum Effect by 2 Spoofhounds IV over We'd Rather Be Playing Golf 
by 11 Brick Throwers over Stark Naked & the Protrusions by6 Stepen 5
1 

Armed & Dangerous II over Thy Kingdom Come uy 
4 

Fun Bunch 5 over Tom White & the 4 Other Caucasians by 7 Stepen6 Sometimes You Just Got To Say. . over Sons of Thunder VIII by 4 Corby's 3 Revs. of Jesse Jackson over Nasty, Nasty by 15 Stepan7 Virtual Unknowns over Geritol Express by 7 StepanB Now Or Never over UB40 She B 13 WeB Busted by 
6 
Bookstore9 

Showtime over Cubiyao? by 2 Padres over 4 Jerks & a Dribbler IV by 3 Rousseau's Noble Savages over Nutmeggers VIII . 
by 5 Bookstore 10 Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys That Are . over 5 
Guys Named Moe by 1 0 Return of Pig bag over SONF by 4 Windy City 5 over The Poison Ivy Award Winners 
by 16 
Lyons 11 Where's the Queef? over Doyle's Gemini by 13 Bleeding Axe Wounds II over Casper the Friendly 
Coach by 10 Tequila White Lightning IV over In the Crowd by 11 
Lyons12 Macri's Deli over Dyspareunia (AKA Foppdi) by 11 Motown over 4 Gringos & aSpic by 8 The Shootist over Human Athlete & 4 Other 
Guys ... by8 
PONY 
!~ 2~~oe 
SAVE '13 


MIKE 
Kids Running 1295 
REG. 19" 

SAVE'7 
adidas . 
Runnine: 495
IUS llll li'DlS 
1
REG.$25 
.r~... •.. ·.. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------__1 
Today's Games Stepen 1 5:30-Big Swahilis v. Shysters 
6:15 -Fun Bunch 5 v. Corby's 3 Rev. of Jesse Jackson & 2 Guys 
Stepan2 5:30-Anyplace, Anytime v. John 3:16 6:15-Virtual Unknowns v. Now Or Never 
Stepen3 6:15-JimmyG. & theSpo1sv Corby Tooters 
Stepan4 5:30-Team t 36 v. The Modern Lovers 6:15-Short On Height v. Brick Throwers 
Stepen 5 

6:15 -Armed & Dangerous v. Sometimes You Just GotTo Say. Bookstore9 4:45-Showtime v. Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys 
That Are Better 5:30-Padres v. Return of Pigbag 6:15-Rousseau's Noble Savages v. WBBS On 
The Air Again 

Bookstore 10 4:45-Bleeding Ax Wounds II v. Motown 5:30-Where's the Oueef? v. Macri's Deli 6:15-Tequila White Lightning IV v. The Shootist 
Lyons 11 6:15-Scratch Twice & the 3 Itches v. Over the Limit Lyons 12 6:15-W1ndy City 5 v. Spoofhounds IV 
Women's Bookstore Tournament 
First Round Results Oreo Dynasty Worse Than Blood over Jean't Team by 11 5 Girls Who Could Win the NIT over We May Not Be Fast But . . , forfeit Hell's Belles over 5 Proofs That The Rythm Method 
Doesn't Work, forfeit The Pretenders over Entropy Strikes Back, forfeit Affirmative Defense over Chi Chi McDermot's 
Widows by 15 Seventh Heaven over The Daytrippers by 20 Too Bitchin· for Hoops over Casste & the Brazen 
Hussies by 4 Boss Betty's over Cause Without a Destiny by 15 Nolo Contendre over 6 Beautiful S1ngle Women by 14 Smitty & the Lead Loads over We Can't Play Ball But We Sure Are Fast by 13 Mrs. Olsen & the Coffee Achievers over Girls Just Want to have Fun by 17 
The Bad Grads over Dona Tapir by 11 The Last Shot over Clueless Wonders by 11 4 On 1 & 1 On 3 over The Not Ready For a Dry 
Campus Players by 19 
g95 
BUIIISliiD 

The P.T.'s Or 4 Grads & a Genter over Most 
Peculiar Mamas. 22·20 
Swan Song over The Ball Handlers by 7 
Pneumothorax over The Late Arrivals by 15 
Cathy. Herman. Sticks. Purple Ace. over Buc­
hanan's Babes. forfeit 
AthletiC Annex over Just So We Can Say We Did It 
by 5 

Anita & the Mallavarapu's over ITDMA by 3 
4 Assets & 1 Liability over We Still Don't Kneel For 
Nobody by 14 
C"cle Jerk Catchers over BAFAS by 6 
Footloose over Jackson 5 by 2 
The Larks over Cabdrivers by 2 
Pnncess Bookstore & Her Ladies ..over Turn Off 
the Disposal . forfeit 
Farley Women Take Top over 4 Average Women 
of NO & the Girl by to 
Holy Cross Polo Club over Jackson 5 by 10 
Let's Make a Pass over LeMan's Lightweights, for­
feit 

Assorted Nuts over 5 Seniors In Search of GCS by 
13 

The Glee Club over The Missing Link by 5 
Oh. That's a Good Name over the Foul ups. forfeit 
Life In the Fast Lane. Chapter 7 over DICk Button's 
Gals ... by 13 
Today's Games Stepan 1 4:00-Nolo Contendre v. Smitty & the Headloads Stepen2 4:00-Mrs. Olsen & the Coffee Achievers v. The Bad Grads Stepan3 
4:00 -Princess Bookstore & Her Ladies-in­Waiting v. Farley Women Take Top Stepan4 4:00-The P.T.'s or 4 Guards & a Center v. Swan Song Stepan5 4:00-Pneumothorax v. Cathy. Herman. Sticks. Purple Ace, BB & Little Mo 5.00-4Assets& 1 Liabilltyv. Circle Jerk Catchers Stepan 6 4:00-Oh. That's a Good Name v. Life In the Fast Lane: Chapter 7 5:00-Too Brtch1n· For Hoops v. Boss Betty·s Stepan7 5:00-The Last Shot v. 4 On 1 & 1 On 3 Stepan 8 5:00-Holy Cross Polo club v. Let's Make a Pass Lyons 11 5:00-Assorted Nuts v. The Glee Club 
Lyons 12 5:00-Hell's Belles v. The Pretenders 
..




·Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 16 
sions, which gave the seeded Brick 
Throwers quite a fight before falling, 
21-15. 
The Modem Lovers were winners 
again, this time with a 21-12 victory 
over Hoop da Doop. Peter Graham 
took the honors as the best lover of 
the day with 1 0-for-20 shooting. 
The Near-Perfection Award for 
the day goes to Rick Louthan of 
Armed and Dangerous II. Louthan 
hit seven shots in a row, and then 
ruined his perfect game just before 
the end, and he finished the day at 
7-for-9. His team, however, did not 
fade as it saw the demise of Thy 
Kingdom Come, 21-17. 
The Bookstore Basketball Addict 
Award goes to Bob Brogan of the 
Corby Tooters. Brogan decided to 
play yesterday despite a a case of 
mono which he is battling, and he 
scored five points to help his team 
past Hoosiers, 21-14. 
Today, the 32-team field will be 
trimmed to 16 in the fifth round of 
Bookstore XIII. The games will be 
played at 4:45 p.m., 5:30 p.m., and 
6:30p.m. on all ofthe regularcourts. 
At 5:30 p.m., two games seem to 
be at the top ofthe games-to-see list, 
so it all depends on what quad you 
like to watch basketball. The 
Modern Lovers will demonsrate 
their style on Stepan 4 against Team 
136, while the Padres meet Return of Pigbag on Bookstore 9. Both games promise to be exciting. 
At 6:1 5 p.m., you can pick a good game at any of the three tournament sites. Stepan 1 is the place for the matchup between the Fun Bunch Five and Corby's Three Reverends of Jesse Jackson and Two Guys to At­tract the White Vote. Lyons 11 will be the location of the game that pits Over the Limit against Scratch Twice and the Three Itches. 
The most interesting game at 6: 15 p.m., though may be on Bookstore 
10. That is where Sorin rector Ed­ward "Monk" Malloy and his Sorin teammates on The Shootist will take on Tequila White Lightning IV, an­other team of Sorin residents. This Battle ofSorin pits two of the better teams in this year's tournament against each other. 
The Observer Wednesday, April 2 5, 1984 -page 14 
Northwestern spoils day 

Tennis team loses last home match 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Wrlter 
The Notre Dame men's tennis 
team expc:rknced both the thrill of 
victory and the agony ofdefeat over 
this Easter break. 
A loss to Purdue on Wednesday, a third-place finish in tht· Midwestern City Conference Championships, a blowout of DePaul Monday, and a tough loss to Northwestern yester­day kept the Irish busy. 
The Wildcats spoiled the last homestand of the year for Notre Dame, 6-3. In the singles matches, Pat Shields and Captain Tim Noonan were victorious for the Irish. 
Shields, who finished second in 
his flight in the MCC Champion­
sh!ps, extended his winning streak 
with a victory over Dan Christian, 6­
3,6-4. 
Noonan, who was playing his last match at Notn: Dame, pulled out a 6-4, 6-7, 6-0 victory over Marco Wem. After the match, Noonan ad­mitted, "It (leaving Notre Dame) really hasn't sunk in yet. I just wish I could have gone out with a win." 
The third point for the Irish was provided by the third doubles team ofJoe Nelligan and Doug Pratt, with a 6-3, 6-4 victory over Wem and Christian. 
The loss put Notre Dame's record 

At Indianapolis 
at 0-5 against Big Ten teams. However, the Irish will have a chance to try to turn the tide against the Michigan State Spartans, their next foe, this Saturday. 
"I was pleased with our play, despite the loss," said Head Coach Tom Fallon. "I thought we played very well. A couple of points would have turned it around." 
Monday, the Irish travelled to Chicago to pay a visit to the DePaul Blue Demons. Notre Dame swept the competition, 9-0, at the Mid­town Tennis Club. 
Pat Shields made his first ap­pearance at fifth singles and Doug Pratt played sixth singles as Paul Najarian missed the match due to a sore back. This was Shields' first ap­pearance at fifth since his back in­jury at the beginning of the spring season. 
The bright spot of the weekend was the strong play ofthe Irish in the MCC Championships. Notre Dame was expected to finish third behind Oral Roberts and Oklahoma City College, but the race was much closer than expected. 
"We played well," said Fallon. "We put three in the finals; unfor­tunately only one was able to win. Nelligan lost in three sets, and Shields lost to a good player. 
"We're playing very well now, and hopefully we can keep it up." 

The only Irish player to win his flight was Paul Najarian at fifth singles. 
"I was very happy, and I thought I played well, concentrated well. I won all of the big points -I was really up for it and I had a little bit of luck," Najarian said. 
"I had two wins against guys who were favored over me, and I put up a good show and won. The difference in the final between me and my op­ponent was the fact that I came back strong after losing the first set in a really close tiebreaker, even strong­er than in the first set. 
"I just raised my game up a notch," Najarian continued. "I didn't suffer the letdown he was expect­ing." 
With the strenuous schedule the Irish have been facing, it was a mistake that keyed Najarian's vic­tory. 
"I think I played so well because I accidently missed practice the day before," said Najarian, "and I got an extra day ofrest which I needed, and I came back well rested." 
Wednesday, the tennis team dropped an 8-1 decision to Purdue, extending the Big Ten jinx. The only point was provided by Paul Ghidotti at third singles with a 6-3, 3-6, 6-2 victory over Bill Sheley. 


Track team takes second place 
Once again, James Patterson was a standout in the jumping competi­tion. A nominee for the Athlete of the Meet award, the top-flight con­tender won the long jump ( 23-8 and three-quarter inches) and placed second in the triple jump. 
"He had a decent jump consider­ing the weather conditions," Piane said. 
In the steeple ch_ase, Irish senior Ed Juba splashed h1s way to a first­1 place finish with a 9:09.00 clocking. Dan Shannon turned in an im­pressive 47.5-second 400-meter time, good enough for second place. Assistant Coach Ed Kelly labeled his performance as "outstanding." 
Other Irish trackmen who turned in noteworthy outings include Phil Gilmore (second in the 100­meters), Mitch Van Eyken (second in the 200-meters), Jim Tyler (second in the 1,500-meters), Andy Dillon (second in the 5,000­meters), Tom Warth (second in the 10,000-meters), and the 4x100 relay team ofGilmore, Shannon, Van Eyken, and Patterson, which took second with a time of42.2 seconds. 
"The kids did a good job. No doubt about it. We went out there and just competed," Piane remarked. "But we can be a lot bet­ter. We are still far away from what we should be doing." 
• • • Briefs 
continuedfrom page 12 
The SMC track teant inished sixth in the NAJA Dis­
trict 21 Championships last weekend. Mary Lunneen took t(JUrth plaot: in the 1500-meters in 5:08 and second place in the 800-meters in 2:30.4. Trish McPartlin placed fourth in the high jump with a leap of 4-10. -The Obsen•er 
The Notre Dante golfteant's btue squad ptaced 
second last weekend at the Bethel Invitational. John Anthony took fourth place at the tournament with a 73, Tom Ryan shot 75, Steve Ferlrnan registered a 76, Tim Hanlon had a 77, and Jack Eisenbeis finished at 80. -The Obsen•er 

A putt-putt golftou.man1ent is being held this 
Sunday by NVA. You and a partner can sign up by calling NVA at 239-6100. Transportation to and from the course will be provided free, leaving the library circle at 4 p.m. The golf will be offered at discount rates. -The Observer 
The golf refresher class scheduled for lao;t week 
has been reschedulc:d for tomorrow at 5 p.m. Dick Walker, pro from Morris Park Country Club, will be the insructor. Bring clubs and $1 to the practice fairway ofthe Burke Memorial GolfCourse. Sign up in advanve at the NVA office, or call 239-6100. -THe Observer 
A table tennis club is being started on campus. If 
interested, please attend a meeting at the Lafortune Little Theater tomorrow at 4:30 or call Ted Pfarrer at 1988. -The Obsen1er 
The Annual Blue-Gold Gaole will be rtayed 
in Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday, April 28, at I p.m. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students will be admitted free with lD at gate 1 5 only. --:-The Observer 

Wednesday Night Special 3 · 8PM Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 8 · 3AM Bud Long-Necks 75t 
Corby Open Golf Tourney-T€e-times at Corby's 
•

• WANTED:
•

: Any student interested in : applying for positions of : PRODUCER and DIRECTOR 
•
• 

: for STUDENT PLAYERS (1985-6): 
• sign up on 2nd FLoor, LaFortune, • • Student Activities Board • 
: Deadline: FRIDAY, APRIL 27 : 
·····························~ 

By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
It was an ali-day downpour that members of the Notre Dame track team had to endure as they com­peted in their first scoring meet of the outdoor season at the Indiana In­tercollegiate Meet in Indianapolis last weekend. 
Said coach Joe Piaue of the weather: "It was horrible. It caused a lot of problems." Still, the Irish ran well. 
The Irish track team nearly knocked off the strongly favored 1984 Big Ten indoor champions of Indiana with a strong second place finish. 
Lax 
continuedfrom page 16 
sion I team), 8-5, which also shows that they have a good defense. They're always a well-coached team, so we'll have our work cut out for 
us." 
The closest that the two teams have come to a common opponent is William & Mary. The Irish dropped a 16-6 game at William & Mary early in the season. Denison has not played William & Mary, but it did beat Washington & Lee, which 
"I was really pleased. I had to be," noted Piane. "The other teams, and even the press, picked us third or fourth at best. We lost by twelve points, which isn't all that much." 
Piane pointed to the shot put as the crucial event. The Irish, due to the fact that they did not enter anyone in the competition, could only watch as Indiana scored big points in the field event 
"We had them scared," Piane said. "Without the shot put we could have beaten them, and that's not what Indiana expected." 
Indiana topped the field of over twenty teams with 139 points. Be­hind the Hoosiers came the Irish ( 127), and Purdue( 103). 
playing and practice time since the Wooster win, though. Bad weather ha-; made practicing difficult, and a 23-4 rout of Wittenberg last Wed­nesday did not provide the Irish with much competition. The only good action came on Saturday in an exhibition game against the Michi­gan Lacrosse Club. Notre Dame lost, 12-11, but the competition wa<; very talented and included many college 
graduates. 
The tough competition at Michi­gan could be very helpful when Denison visits. The game, which begins at 3:30 p.m., is crucial for the Irish if they hope to make a run at Ohio Wesleyan's MLA title. 
crushed William & Mary by an identical 16-6 score. 
O'Leary can only hope that playing on the home field will help his team's performance likt· it did in the home opener against Wooster. In that game, Notre Dame jumpc:d out to a big 5-0 lead after the first quarter, and Wooster never got closer than two the rest of the way. O'Leary had directed his team to he very aggressive and push the hall down the field, a strategy which he again will use today. 
"We're just going to try to be real aggressive again and try to control the hall," O'Leary says. "We've been getting more offense from our middies recently and they've been doing a good job creating scoring situations. We're going to try to get them to control the tempo of the game." 
O'Leary is concerned that his tt·am has not had enough good 



Photographers! 

For more information, call Pete Laches at The Observer, 239-5303, or inquire at the office, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center. 



T0 day__________________ 4~p~~~~a-g._e--15
w_ed_n_e_sd_a_y._,A_.p._r_n_z_s,._l_9_8... 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Campus

AS 1H€ 50/.£ F?EPI?i<SENTATrVt OF 1HG f(fGHf Will& iliiP fi10f?A~ COII­
5Ct6NC£ OF 11115 P'IIRrY, I C6f?rAIN~Y PO HAV6 AN OfJJfCTION 13RIP&65? '1?/C~-A-f?ON(."1D HAVINb OIJR CONVtNTION IN ACITY Wl~~y KNOWN 1D HAV€: I NO, NO•. \ REAP MY50 MANY OF... Of... "THtlfl"/ UPS, BOY.IHtlfl. I II  •1 p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs Bowling Green, Jake Kline Field •3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Shame and Guilt in Early America," Prof. John P. Demos, Library Lounge •4:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Microbial Iron Transport Mechansims," Prof. Kenneth N. Raymond, 123 NSH •4:30 p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Nutrient Regeneration and Plankton Productivity," Dr. John Lehman, Galvin Life Science Auditorium •4:30 p.m. -Tri-Military Presidential Review, ACC South Parking Lot  
Mellish &Dave  •5 p.m. -Lecture, "News From the Empire," Fer­nando Del Paso, 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
rR. BEAUCHAM~ YOU REAlllE SURPRISE ~UR1AV/YOU AKt CJJARGEP THE SE/liOUSNESS WJTNESS!l 'WITI/ WILLFUL OF YOUR ~/ I'M 5P!lCHJ.ESS,.PERVERSION OF 0Ff£N5£( fHE N./1 IMAGE.,. \ \I  •7 p.m. -Freshman Orientation Committee Mandatory Meeting, La Fortune •7 p.m. -Film, "Shoot the Piano Player," O'Shaughnessy Hall •57, 9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Mr. Mom," Engineer: ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, S1 •8 p.m. -Lecture, Journalism and presidential  
politics, Murray Kempton, CCE Auditorium •8 p.in. -Performing Arts Series, "Thurber I," William Windom, O'Laughlin Hall, Tickets Re­quired •8:15 p.m ­Concert, ND Faculty Composers, An­nenberg Auditorium •9 p.m. ­Right to Life Meeting, La Fortune Little Theatre  
Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side Gary larson  TV Tonight  

"Get packages of legs, wings, everything. These are chicken kits." "Oo! I know, Doris! .. Drape one of his  7p.m. 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 8p.m. 16 Real People 22 One Day At A Time 28 Fall Guy 8:30p.m. 22 Mama Malone 9p.m. 16 Facts ofLife 22 Wednesday Night Movi~ 28 Dynasty 9:30p.m. 16 Double Trouble 10p.m. 16 St. Elsewhere 28 Hotel llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 11:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Police Story/CBS Late Movie  
arms over your shoulder!" 28 ABC News Nightline 40 Refuseto 49 StylishThe Daily Crossword change 50 Matched set 41 Pinnacle of jewelry 51 Official sealACROSS 32 Confine 64 Farinaceous 7 Grow fat 1 Grate 33 Fr. assent 52 Law and­65 Lord 8 Superior 5 Exert 34 Cometo­55 Direction66 Muse of person 42 Still friction (agree) to a reader poetry 9 Bare 44 Organic 8 Food fish 37 Painfully 67 Word with 10 Swallowup compound 13 Release exposed agent or 11 Jeweler's 46 Nativeof 57 Feels pain 39 Impatient box magnifier Thailand 59 Ger. king 15 WWIIagcy. 12 Lock 48 Upright 60 Before 16 Purport stone long17 Remain 68 Slangy slabs 63 Cravat unyielding reply 19 Maintain In 43 Consumed 69 Collaror 14 Mild cheese reasoning 45 Sp. aunt jacket Thursday's Solution 18 New20 Drinking 47-the line 22 Destroymug 48 Substitutes I R MA•c H OIPIS A p E D 26 Nonsense!21 Motor 50 Constituent NEAR.LUNGIE CAGJ..DOWN 27 Danderadjustments 51 Toper Metal 29 VIolin23 Piggy bank 53 Conjunction A L E H 0 U S E L E E D S coating makercontribu· 11111111 N D Y T R 0 D 2 Rectangular CAT~­tions J A Y V E E I R I S S T D 0 GEE AD AIGIE•'AfHfA"24 Limit pier 3 Represent LEAsT FLy c A T C" E R 54 Davenport 30 For shame! TNT.HiiiLLY OISE0 1 1 25 Bandleader 56 Machine 35 Wrestler's WOIRIE L. C 0 M BIE D Brown lever 4 Little L UININ. HUMP •••milieu 26 Abundant 58 Coiffures finger S H R U G___-H E R A L D I C36 Certain C A T C H 0 N E s 8 R E A T H 28 Draw 61 Improvise 5 Auto type travelers A R E A PIUIL S E •A L E E 31 Senor's 62 Confront 6 -and 38 Musical ©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc.T E s s EINID E D •r E R M gold defiantly downs box All Rights Reserved 4/25/84  
TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT $1.00 7:00 9:00 11:00 Engineering Auditorium  Wednesday Night Beer Special Only25days until graduation  


-~-~-----~------~-----------------------------------~­

S~orts 
.II 

Macri's Deli (in numbered jerseys}, sbowrt here in earlier Bookstore action,.was an easy winner yester­day over Dyspareunia (aka Fopdi). The originalfield of512 teams bas now been trimmed to 32, as thefifth 
Bookstore Round Four trims field down to thirty-two teams 
By PHIL WOLF ternoon on Bookstort: I 0, as The shooting by Brian Enright and 5-for­.\ports Writer Poison Ivy Award Winners were not 12 from Steve Beuerlein. able to provide much competition. The Comeback Award for yester­
After five days of vacation, the 64 Windy City Five rolled to a 21-5 vic­day goes to Ed Smierciak and Four 
teams still remaining in Bookstore tory on the perfect shooting ofJohn Other Guys That Are Better Than 
XIII did battle yesterday to sec Stein ( 5-for-5 ), Mark Brooks ( 5-for­John Paxson, who destroyed Five 
which teams would continue on to S), and Jim Baron ( 4-for-4 ). The Guys Named Moe with 2I-for-33 
the fifth round of the tournament. team shot a total of 21-for-28, while shooting to the losers' 11-for-33. 
The :U games of yesterday's holding The Poison Ivy Award Win­Last Tuesday, Ed Smierciak and his 
f(>ltrth round, which were played ners to just five points on their 28 four teammates were able to hit just 
with referees for the first time in shots. 2 1-of-1 0 3 in their 21-1 5 victory 
Bookstort· history. went smoothly, Corby's Three Reverends ofJesse over CRAMM!!. 
and there were several exciting Jackson and Two Guys to Attract the Bob Michels made 7-of-8 yester­matchups. day and Ken Schuermann added 7­(>nc of the best games of the after­of-9, as the team regained some noon was the 6:15 p.m. contest be­credibility and advanced to the fifth 
tween Over the Limit and Foo-Foo round.
Bookstore XIII 

tht· Snoo on Stepan 2. Foo-Foo the The upset of the day occured at Snoo jumped out to an early four­6: I 5 p.m. on Bookstore 9 when point lead, but could not hold on as Rousseau's Noble Savages Over the Limit went up by as much eliminated the seeded Nutmeggers as six points during the game. The White Vote was an easy winner over VIII, 21-16. Tom Arndorfer hit six of game was close toward the end, but Nasty, Nasty at 6:15 p.m. on Stepan his I 0 shots from the court and one Over the Limit was able to escape 6. Cecil Rucker hit seven of his 12 of his two free throws to help Rous­with the victory, 21-19. shots to lead the winners, who shot a seau's Noble Savages to the victory, Chris Brown led the winners with combined 21-of-3 5 to eliminate while teammate Brian Behmer 
6-for-8 shooting, while teammate Nasty, Nasty, which shot a poor 6-of-added six more points and eight 
Marty Roddy hit 6-of-12 and 27. rebounds to the cause. 
grabbed I :3 rebounds. Over the Following that game, Rucker took A team called Virtual Unknowns is 
Limit shot 21-for-43 as a team, while some dunking lessons from Greg quickly making a name for itself in 
Foo-Foo the Snoo was close behind Bell, who upstaged the ex-varsity Bookstore XIII. The team has not 
at 19-for-45. hoops player as several fascinated allowed an opponent to score more 
In another close game yesterday, fans looked on. than 14 points in a game, and yester­John 3:16 overcame the Vacuum Ef­Other blowouts yesterday came day Geritol Express was no excep­fect, 2I-19. John Hussey was the from this year's versions of tion. Virtual Unknowns defeated the high scorer for John 3:16, with six Bookstore Xll's top two teams, Express, 21-14, to advance to the points on 17 shots. Hussey also had Macri's Deli and Tequila White final 32. Mike Zaske shot I 0-for-18 
19 rebounds for the winners in that Ughtning IV. Macri's Deli was a 21-for the winners. 
one. 1 0 winner over Dyspareunia (aka One surprising team yesterday 
Of course, not all of the teams Fopdi), as Joe Sweeney made seven was Stark Naked and the Protru­
playing yesterday had such close ofnine attempts. Meanwhile Tequila 
games as Over the Limit and John White Lightning IV downed In the 
see BOOKSTORE, page 13 
3:16. Windy City Five had an easy af. Crowd by the same score on 5-for-9 
Denison today 



Lacrosse team faces big foe 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Since the Ohio Wesleyan loss, the tcr the game with an 8-4 record after Sports Editor Irish have improved their record to starting the season offslowly against S-1 in the conference, putting them tough Eastern competition. 
After the Notre Dame lacrosse one game behind co-leaders "They (Denison) started out with team lost a tough 12-S decision to Denison and Wesleyan, who have a lot of new people, but they're defending conference champion yet to play each other this year. A improving every week," explains Ohio Wt·skyan on April 7, the Notre Dame win over Denison and a O'Leary. "At this point in the season, chances for an Irish Midwest Denison win over Wesleyan would I think they're right up to the level Lacrosse Association championship leave a three-way tit: for first place. where they were a couple of years set·med very slim. Before the Irish start looking at all ago. 
The Ml.A title is still pretty much a the possibilities, though, they must "They arc a very balanced dub long shot for Rich O'Leary's 6-3 get past perennial Midwest power who are able to get some scoring squad, but a win over conference Denison, a .nationally-ranked Div­from their midfield. They just beat opponent Denison this afternoon on sion Ill team that defeated Notre Washington & Lee (an eastern Divi-Cartier Field would improve Notre Dame two years ago in the MLA 
see LAX, page 14

Dame's chances immensely. championship game. The visitors en-
roundgets underway today. Phil Wolfprovidesa sum­mary ofall ofthe tournament action and a preview of today's games below. 
Wednesday, April25, 1984-page 16 

Trivial Pursuits of a different kind 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! 
Recently, this campus, as well as the nation ha~ been ovt·rcome by 
a disease which is quite contagious (and this ha~ nothing to do with 
alcohol). It can strike at any time, but usually occurs in small groups 
who have gathered together for a commmon cause, and the attacks 
usually occur during the evening hours. Once a recipient of the 
disease, the victims usually become paralyzed in a circle around an 
artifact ofthis plague. 
The disease is known as trivia/us pursuitus, and it hao; taken this 
column as its latest victim (although there are some who would say 
this column has been a trivial pursuit all year long). Be that as it may, 
my crack research staff has searched hither and yon to come up with 
.some of the best in Notre Dame sports.trivia on which you can test 
your prowess. Some of these you will find easy, but altogether, this 
little test will be good preparation for your worst final exam. llle 
answers will appear below each set of questions, but don't look at 
them until you have gone through the whole set. Consider yourself 
better than average ifyou get more than 40 percent. 
Career Highs . . . 1. What Irish basketball player played in the 
most games during his Irish career? 2. Who is the all-time leading 
scorer in Irish field hockey history? (Hint: The record was set this 
year) 3. What sport had the longest winning streak in Notre Dame 
history ( 122 straight wins)? 4. Who is Notre Dame's all-time leading 
msher? 5. Austin Carr is the leading all-time Irish scorer in men's 
basketball, but who holds the honor in women's basketball? 
Answers -I. Bruce Flowers (I 17). 2. Clare Henry (57 goals) 3. 
Fencing. 4. Vagao; Ferguson (3472 yards). 5. Shari Matvey (1,373 
points). 
Post-Season Play ... What was the: year and the sport of Notre 
Dame's last national championship? 2. When was the last time an 
Irish baseball team went to the NCAA tournament? 3. What was the 
only year that an Irish basketball team advanced to the final four? 4. 
What Irish player caught the most passes in bowl games? 5. The year 
was 1959. "Mack the Knife" was the number-one song in the: coumry 
(the pep band still thinks it is), the White Sox won the pennant, and 
Notre Dame won their only national championship of the 1950's. 
What was the sport? 
Answers -I. 1978, Fencing 2. 1970 3. 1978 4. Ken MacAfee 
(nine catches in two bowl games. S. Men's tennis. 
Nicknames ... Give the nickname ofthe following Irish athletes: 
l.Joan Totten, field hockey. 2.Joe Howard, football and basketball 3. 
Robert Lopes, baseball 4. Steve Ferlmann, golfS. Don Heintzelman, 
wrestling. 
Answers -I. Jetsi 2. Small Wonder 3. Buster 4. Stoney 5. lbe 
Muncie Mauler. 
Miscellaneous ... 1. Who were the first players in Notre Dame 
history to receive a volleyball scholarship? (Hint: They arc still 
active) 2. Name the four athletic conferences Notre Dame was af. 
filiated with during the 1983-84 school year. 3. Who is the only 
Notre Dame baseball player still active in the major leagues? 4. What 
current Irish athlete holds the record for the fastest pin in Notre 
Dame wrestling history? 5. What South Bend broadcaster was a for­
mer member ofa Notre Dame coa<;hing staff? 
Answers -1. Mary Jo Hensler and Josie Maternowski 2. Midwes­tern City Conference, North Star Conference, Midwest Lacrosse Association, and Central States Collegiate Hockey League. 3. Ron Reed 4. Mike Golic 5. jeffJeffers (assistant baseball coach, 1976). 
Strictly Tennis ... 1. What player holds the single-season record for wins in Notre Dame men's tennis history? 2. What current women's professional player had a father and an uncle who played varsity tennis at Notre Dame? 3. Only one coach in Notre Dame history has more career wins than current Irish mentor Tom Fallon, who owns 446 career victories. Name him. 4. What women's tennis player owns more career victories than any other player in Irish history? 5. Why is tennis the only sport that gets their own trivia section? 
Answers -I. Mark McMahon 2. Chris Evert Uloyd 3.Jake Kline 4. 
Pam Fischette 5. Because they would have been the "Pick of the 
Week" last week. 
Pick ofthe Week ... First of all, an apology to the men's tennis team, which was slated to be last week's selection in this section. The tt:am turned in a fine third place showing in last weekend's Midwes­tt:rn City Conference tournament, and they deserve some ack­nowledgement. ·­
However, this week's honor (?) goes to Rich 0' Leary's Irish lacrosse team, as they prepare to take on Midwest Lacrosse Associa­tion foe Denison at 3:30 this afternoon on Cartier Field. After today's contest, the Irish will get ready for this weekend when Ohio State pays a visit at I :30 p.m. The Irish arc enjoying a fine season with a record of6-3, and the team would certainly appreciate your support at this week's games. 







