
-----~------------­
~-------------------------­
Vandalism -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 69 th~: in<.kp~:mknt !'lllH.knt n~:wspapt•r s<.-rving notr~: Jam~: and saint mary's THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1984 
the new multimillion dollar natatorium was just set in place. Construction is expected to be thm­pleted by September 1985. 

Band rooms damaged when Washington Hall sprinkler system bursts 
By KEITH HARRISON Jr. mont said. "His desk did get soaked Assistant News Editor though." The students also used trash cans 
Part of the sprinkler system in the in Phillips' office, he said. "The two east side of Washington Hall burst cans we put there were almost tilled yesterday afternoon, sending water with water." Into three band rooms, according to The leakage eventually reached a Donald Dedrick, director of the back room where a copying rna· physical plant at the University. chine and several varnished desks 
got wet. Phillips said the damage"The water in the pipe froze, 
could have been worse as the back which broke a sprinkler head and 
room contained all of the band's 
caused the water leak," he said. 
music, which remained unharmed. Water did not reach the main band
The extent of damage to the band room and the band library.
rooms could not be determined im­
• mediately, said Assistant Band Direc­
surely 
The sprinkler burst because the tor and Assistant Professor of Music
Ifyou're aching to go for a swim in the Univer­heat tape around the water pipe was
Jim Phillips. The sprinkler which
sity's neu• O~ympic-sized pool, you still have about not functioning, he said. Heat tape Is a year to wait -the first of three 30-ton, JIB-foot­burst had been installed during the wrapped around pipes to keep the 
recent renovations of Washington
long steel tru.~s rods designed to support the roofof water from freezing. The sprinklerHall. 
was one of four In new fresh air"I think there will have to be an shafts, Dedrick said. The fresh alrInvestigation as to why this hap­shafts were installed during the


Wittenbach says proposed tax plan 
pened so soon after the renovation," renovation to Improve ventilation.
Phillips said. The water, which dropped "This cold weather was the first
is needed to reduce current deficits 
through the ceilings from the time the system was tested this sprinkler pipe above them, first year," Dedrick said. Because of the By BUD LUEPKE <.vrporate taxes from 46 to 33 per­of these other things," said Vance. flowed into Band Director and Asso­failure of this system, a replacement 
StaffReporter cent. She said the plan would simplify 
ciate Professor of Music Robert system will be Installed, accordingTo balance the revenue lost by taxes by dropping most credits and 
O'Brien's office. to Dedrick, a dry system, using air The tax reform plan proposed by lowering the tax brackets, the plan deductions. Higher income people 
pressure to keep water out of the "O'Brien's room was the worst
Treasury Secretary Donald Regan also proposes the elimination of w~uld be affected the most, s~e said. pipes until a fire occurs. "In a fire, would simplify tax returns, but its ef­many deductions, exclusions, hit," said Band Secretary Mark Quer­
the sprinkler head melts, air enters
Wittenbach said the proposal
fects would extend past the I040 credits, and exemptions. Therefore, tinmont, who witnessed the event. 
the pipe, and water Is released,"
would significantly affect college
form, according to Notre Dame As­middle class to upper class families, Quertinmont and several other stu­Dedrick said.
students, many who work part-time
sociate Professor of Accounting who benefit the most from the dents tried to collect some of the
and during the summer. "Part of the
James Wlttenbach. deductions and credits, would pay water in two 35-gallon trash cans. Details on repairs await the
propos;d," he said, "is to increase 
an average of $1,330 more in taxes. Both cans filled "in a matter of rooms' re-examination today,
Wlttenbach said the proposed tax personal exemptions to S2,000 and
A corporation, though paying a minutes," he said. "It was like a Dedrick said, but four sprinkler
Is needed to simplify tax law and the zero bracket amount to S2,800."
lower percentage of its income, waterfall in there." He estimated heads wlll be replaced with the dry
reduce deficits. "In the last few Students earning less than these
would suffer a tax increase when in­that two to three Inches ofwater ac­system.
years, Congress has significantly amounts would pay no federal taxes. 
centive credits such as the Invest­cumulated on the floor in O'Brien's The sprinkler burst has caused complicated tax law," he said. "I do ment tax credit are remove~. Vance agreed that students could office. several problems for the band,think It needs to be simplified." 
Taxes have become a means of be affected by the plan, but she said The students were able to move O'Brien said. "Right now, we're 
For Instance, while tax brackets doing things other than raising the effect would not be great. much of the furniture in the office, having auditions for our concert now range from 1 I to '50 percent, taxes, said Saint Mary's Assistant Pro­Both Wittenbach and Vance said Quertinmont said. Despite their ef­band, and we had one person sched­the tax reform plan would reduce fessor of Business and Economics the tax reform plan will have to be forts, several paintings and honorary uled every 1'5 minutes," he said. the existing 16 tax brackets to three: Susan Vance. For example, tax changed before being passed. "Many plaques were damaged, O'Brien "Because of the water, the last set of I'5 percent, 2'5 percent and 35 per­credits and deductions often spur in­deductions (which the proposal will said. auditions had to be cancelled." cent. 'Jbe plan would move nearly vestment and charitable contribu­eliminate) are sacred to many "In Phillips' office, a lot of water O'Brien did not know when the all tax payers Into a lower tions. "The proposed tax reform fell, but most ofit fell in areas where cancelled auditions would be res­percentage bracket, even reducing plan Is an attempt to get the IRS out see PLAN, page 3 there was no furniture," Quertln-cheduled. 

ND professor believes talks are way to peace 
By CAROLE CRAWFORD reached a major arms control agree­News Staff ment because Congress did not ratify SALT II. Pfeiffer said Reagan The January talks between the wlll more easily obtain arms control llnited States and the Soviet Union agreement ratification than Carter to discuss arms control are did, since Reagan Is less susceptible "absolutely essential for real peace," to attack from right-wing con­said King Pfeiffer, assistant adjunct servatives. Pfeiffer said the talks are professor of government and lnt~r­"equally important" to the SALT natlonal studies at Notre Dame. talks. "It Is important to keep a 
dialogue going," he said. 
Pfeiffer warned against interpret­
The Soviets are likely to concen­
ing the resumption of negotiations 
trate on nuclear weapons in space, 
as a conclusive end to the Interna­
particularly banning anti-satelllte 
tional tension. 
missiles, Pfeiffer said. The United lbcsc: talks wlll be most produc­States wlll probably focus on limit­
tive for the United States If they are ing land-based ICBMs. These strate­approached with a firm stand while gies reflect the military strengths remaining open to negotiation, Pfeif­and weaknesses of each side. fer said. "We've got to talk to them," The first january talks will 
he said, "but we should keep our "discuss the parameters ofthe agree­guard up. We should make no need· ment," said Pfeiffer. Suspicious 
Like Knights of Columbus across the country,
less concessions." countries with diametrically 
those at Notre Dame erected a sign to add spirit to 
It ha~ been 12 years since the 
the campus. Since Notre Dame's K ofCcouncil can­

United States and Soviet Union see TALKS, page 3 
not afford the billboards those across the United 


The Observer Thursday, December 6, 1984 -page 2 

In Brief 
Five hijackers said yesterday they had planted ex­plosives in a Kuwaiti airliner at Tehran airport and would blow it up ifagroup ofprisoners in Kuwait is not released, Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency reported. In Washington, State Department spokesman john Hughes said at least five Americans were on the aircraft and two -both women -had been released. Three officials of the Agency for International Development were aboard the plane. Hughes said they were not among those released. -AP 
An Indianapolis toy manufacturer, "embarrassed" for marketing a new doll who is a paranoid schizophrenic enemy to GI joe, decided to donate money to mental health research. The action and apology Tuesday by Hasbro Industries Inc. were prompted by complaints about Zartan the Enemy doll from several mental health associations. The plastic doll is described on the back of its box as an "extreme paranoid schizophrenic (who) grows into various multiple personalities to such an extent that the original personality becomes buried and forgotten." The doll is advertised as suitable for children 5 years and older. -AP 
Thirty-fiVe COnServatiVe House members stirred by the growing American protest against South Africa, warned yes­terday they will seek sanctions against the white-ruled government unless it attempts to ease racial barriers. The lawmakers are prepared to seek diplomatic and economic sanctions against South Africa as well as recommend the United States curtail new American investment in that nation. The conservatives, mostly Republicans, unveiled a letter with their demands to South African Ambassador Bernadus Fourie while about 100 marchers, including several con­gressmen, held another demonstration near the South African Em­bassy in icy rain and hail. So far, seven congressman have been arrested in recent non-violent protests. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Sou1h. Bend Sytnphony Orchestra, under 
Conductor Kenneth Kiesler's direction, will perform Saturday at 8 
p.m. in South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium. The concert program features Beethoven's Symphony No. 9, "Choral", Britten's "Men of Goodwill" and Mahler's "Songs ofa Wayfarer". Ticket holders are invited to attend "Concert Comments," the third in Mr. Kiesler's new, pre-concert series featuring a discussion of the evening's pro­gram. "Concert Comments" is held from 7 to 7:30 p.m. on the auditorium's main floor.-Tbe Observer 
"P0 temkin," the 1925 ffim by Sergei Eisenstein, will be shown at the Center for Social Concerns at 9:30 tonight. Sponsored by Ground Zero, this classic depicts a 1907 Russian Naval mutiny on the Potemkin. Admission is free. -The Observer 
A Otris1lnas cock1ail dance is being sponsored by the senior class tonight beginning at 9 in the Monogram Room of the ACC. Admission is $3. -The Observer 

Weather 
Pull outyour flannel under­wear because it's going to get cold. A 60 per­cent chance of snow showers today; windy and very cold with high in the upper teens or lower 20s. Variable cloudiness and very cold with a 20 percent chance of snow flurries tonight. Low from 5 to 10. Increasing cloudi­ness and cold tomorrow. High in the mid-20s. 


The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's Issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce Design Assistant ................. Caroline Belin Layout Staff....................... Mark Weimholt Typesetters ......Jennifer Bigott, MaryEllen News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor ........................... Elizabeth Flor Sports Copy Editor .....................Jeff Blumb Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Cindy Boyle Viewpoint Layout .............. Byron Stevens Features Copy Editor ....... Marikris Dalum Features Layout..................... Sharon Houk ND Day Editor ................... Donna Gavigan SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design ............. Suzanne LaCroix, Mary 
Creadon 
Typist ...................................... Vera Hillegass Pbotograpber .......................... Paul Kramer 


The Grinch makes Christmas 
. 

more than boxes and bows 
Dr. Seuss is considered by many to be a children's author but alot ofcollege students get excited about his Christmas masterpiece, "How the Grinch Stole Christmas." Through endless years ofbeing a premiere Christmas show, the Grinch has stolen only hearts. 
It is difficult to remember the first time you watched this show. It is like trying to remember the first time you walked or talked. It is something you have been doing as long as you can remember. 
College, a big step in anyone's life, is a time ofgrowth, often away from old traditions and into new ones. Yet, some traditions seem to live on, like the Grinch. 
That mature, semi-educated college students do not watch cartoons is a fallacy. Well, some still watch "Superman" but the Grinch goes beyond ordinary car­toons. 
When the small-hearted, Matterhorn-dwelling, dog­beating ogre realizes there is more than material greed to Christmas, his heart does what no Jarvik-7 could and breaks the Dr. Suess heart-· sizer. His face breaks a grin, 
and he is not the only one smiling. 
Many television shows are part of tradition. "Cheers" and "Hill Street Blues" have big weekly followings, but their followings are fickle. Sam and Dianne are con­stantly changing; there are always new blues on the hill. The Grinch, although he changes quite a bit in one half-hour, is a constant char­acter. You spend 12 months forgetting that the The Grin<!h became a nice guy, disliking him for most of the 
show and then loving him. 
just as important as the show are the memories of watching the show. The Christmas decorations have made their way out of storage and most of the family has gathered. It is a protected, secure environment, free from the pressures ofschoolwork or anything else. 
Then why such a popular following among students at Notre Dame? 
First, he is a great character. Change for the better is an admirable change. The Grinch, becomes very warm after being so cold. It is a wonderful change. 
Second, most Notre Dame students have had a Chris­tian upbringing, of which Christmas is a big part. The Grinch exemplifies the non-materialist element of Christmas. It is an effective way to teach children what is really important and to remind everyone not to get caught in the "gimme-gimme" side ofthe holiday. 
Finally, the Grinch hits the television screens at a time when students do not have much to look forward to other than home. With two weeks left in the semes-

John Mennell 

Assistant News Editor 
Inside Thursd 
ter, you realize just how far behind you really are and how much you have to do before you are home. The Grinch is a tie to home. Home is where you always watched it before and wish you were watching it now. 
Watching "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" at col­lege only assures the longevity of the tale. It provides more importance to the story. It becomes not only part ofyour childhood but part ofyour adulthood. 
It is unfortunate more shows are not like the Grinch. 
The other Christmas shows do have some good things to offer. The Peanuts charac­ters and· their forlorn 

Who-viii~. 

Christmas comes once a year and so does the Grinch. The Grinch epitomizes the real meaning of Christmas. He draws attention away from materialism to the spirit of giving and being with friends and loved ones. 
May the Grinch steal your Christmas. 
The Obseroer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial hoard nr The Observer staff. 
Christmas tree is a prime ex­ample. 
It takes time for a show like the Grinch to become great. It has to be as satisfy­ing each year, year after year. And it is. Television is going to be a popular form of entertainment for a long time, and so is the Grinch. 
If you missed the Grinch last night all is not lost. The show will be shown twice at tonight's Sophomore Class Christmas Party in LaFortune so there is still a chance to travel to 

r.,..,..,.....o""_,..,..,.~..o-_,..,..,..,..,..,.J"....o""..o"".A"".........r..r..r..r..r..r....---=--....oc.--1 
I§ SUMMER SERVICE I§ 

I PROJECTS 1985 I 
~ §
s § 
~ Applications are available § 
~ ~ 
~ at § 
~ The Center for Social Concerns ~ Support 
§ ~ For more information: 8 ~ 
March of Dimes 

§ Marty Mosby Kenahan • 239-7867 § 
~..o-..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r....o"".A'"....o""J"..rJ".A'"~J"..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.JC 



't--------------------1 
I .,.,.,.,... I I I
I
I This coupon good for 10% OFF 1I Athletic apparel and II 10% OFF Athletic shoes 
I ADIDAS*BROOKS II
I DOLPHIN*NEW BALANCE 17911 State Rd. 23 I REEBOK *PONY South Bend, IN I1 and more 219-272-4373 I 
I EXPIRES 12-31-84 I 

~-------------------------~ 
The Observer 

Recent auto vandalism hampers progress, says asst. security director 
By DAVID BROWN 
News Staff 
Five larcenies and four acts ofvan­dalism have been committed on cars in Notre Dame parking lots, D-2 and D-6, during the la~t two weeks. 
This unfortunate set of events is forming a trend, according to Rex Rakow, assistant director of Notre Dame security. 
Rakow said progress had been made this semester although car break-ins have increa~d from 11 in the 1983 fall semester to 21 this se­mester. 
During the Northwestern basket­ball game last week, a student security officer, Kevin Flynn of Mor­rissey Hall, apprehended a man and a juvenile trying to break into a car outside the ACC. 
Rakow said he believes these acts are being committed by townspeople, as this type of crime is lncrea~lng all over the South Bend area. He said he doesn't think the two apprehended are responsible for any other crimes though. 
Instances of vandalism and theft have also occurred Saint Mary's parking lot~ and several motels along Route 31. Rakow said. Stereos and tires are the most popular theft Items. The extent of damage to cars varies; some are severely vandalized whereas others arc only slightly damaged. One car's entire dash­board was destroyed by a crowbar in a successful attempt to steal a stu­dent's stereo, Rakow said. 
The thefts are relatively neat in na­ture, according to Rakow. Instead of breaking a window to enter the vehicles, thieves use tools to open the car doors. This makes It more dif­ficult to detect someone attempting to break Into a car. 
In an effort to stop these crimes, Rakow and the security force are working as hard as they possibly can. Two patrol cars cruise the campus 24 hours a day and occasionally some plainclothes officers drive through the lots. 
Student-; are also a great help, Rakow said. Some have been hired to walk in pairs through the lots be­tween 9 p.m. and 1 a.m. and are in­structed to report any unusual happenings. This position still has opening.-; available. Unfortunately, Notre Dame is outside of the South Bend Police Department's jurisdic­tion, but the state and county police have been very cooperative, Rakow said. 
Rakow also had advice for stu­dents. He said that students who live in Grace Hall and Pasquerilla East should look out their windows to report any unusual occurrences in the student lots. They should call se­curity if they see anything out ofthe ordinary, Rakow said. He also said students who own cars should check them more often as security can act more swiftly the earlier a crime is reported. 

Show ND or SMC student or staffID and get a 10% discount 
18001 State Road 23 Near Ironwood  ARMIDA KOBEK '  
South Bend, Indiana 46637  (219) 277-2870  
-~·  

NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available ... Winter semester... convenient . . . spacious ...Laundry facilities ...plentiful parking ... superior maintenence... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: (219) 234-6647 


EASY RIDER 
TO AND DOM CHICAGO'S O'IWlE EVERY 2 HOURS EVIllY DAY 
Thursday, December 6, 1984 -page 3 


Tbe problem of vandalism and theft involving ofsecurity, believes the situation ts tmprovtng. Stu­automobilesparked in the University's D-2 and D-dents are sought to help patrol the lots to crack 6 lots continues, but Rex Rakow, assistant director down on thefts. Davtd Brown bas the story at left. 
Drought sends increased dust levels across North Atlantic toward U.S. 
Assoclated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -The severe drought in North Africa, a major cause ofthe Ethiopian famine, is sen­ding sharply increased levels of dust over the tropical North Atlantic, causing haze and "red rain" in Miami and the West Indies, a chemist said yesterday. 
"When we get rainfall during the summer months, we'll get a layer of red mud in our rain collectors, and Miami has no substantial red soils," said Joseph Prospero, chairman of the University of Miami's division of marine and atmospheric chemlsty. 
Red mud following showers and summertime dust hazes that periodi­cally cloud Florida's skies are familiar to Miami residents, Prospero said. "The new aspect is the dramatic increase in dust con­centrations with the drought," he added. 
The amount ofAfrican dust in the air in Barbados, West Indies, in 1983 was more than double the average 

American Geophysical Union's fall 
meeting. 
Since 1965, Prospero has re­corded dust amounts from Africa In Barbados, more than 3,000 miles from its source, and in Miami, some 4,000 miles away. 
His earlier studies found that max­imum dust levels occur during the summer, when airborne concentra­tions are I 0 to 100 times larger than during the winter. 
Yet his new study, Prospero found that dust concentrations in Bar­bados during the winter of 1982-83 were 100 times above normal win· ter levels. He said the drought and the worldwide weather disturbance known as El Nino were responsible. 
The exact source ofthe dust is un­known, although Prospero said it oc­curs because the drought has sharply increased wind erosion of soil. Mineral studies proved that the dust comes from Africa, he said. 
Frequent cloud cover over the Sahel -the drought-a.fllicted sub­
during non-drought years, Prospero Saharan band ofNorth Africa -makes said in a paper presented at the it difficult to distinguish dust storms


,_______________, 
( CONNECTICUT lI CHRISTMAS II BUS I 
1 *Stops in Fairfield and West Hartford 1 1 + $80 only ! Round Trip 1 1 *Leaves South Bend at 7:30pm on Wed., 1 
I December 19 from the CCE 1 Plan
* Sign-ups on Thurs., Dec. 6; 6-6:30pm at 1 
continuedfrom page 1 
LaFortune

I J 
\ *For more information, call Tim at 1108 . 
~---------------~ 
STUDY IN ENGLAND 
A single semester that will permanently change 
from  clouds  in  satellite  photos,  
Prospero  said.  "They're  getting  
clouds but no rain."  

Prospero said he didn't know how far the dust travels Into the United States, since his only monitoring sta­tions are at Barbados and Miami. 
During the summer months, hot air carrying the dust creates an In­version layer that can prevent cloud buildup over Miami, but Prospero was not sure ifthe dust reduced rain­fall. 
The latest droughts in the Sahel began in the late 1960s, peaked In 1972, then continually worsened from 1975, with Chad and Ethiopia the hardest-hit countries, Prospero said. 
A similar Increase in dust transport was seen at Barbados In the early 1970s after the drought of the late 1 960s. 
"These studies demonstrate that soil deflation (wind erosion) is ex­tremely sensitive to climate and that the dust generated can affect very large areas," Prospero said. "However, it is not clear ifthis defla­tion is attributable primarily to purely natural processes or if it is ex­acerbated by land use practices such as overgrazing and poor agricultural techniques." 
Prospero said the dust ha-; at least one positive benefit: it allows scien­tists to construct better theoretical "models" of global circulation pat­terns, useful in predicting acid rain or nuclear fallout movement through the air . 
people in this country," said Witten­bach. "Lobbying groups won't stand for it." 
Vance said many people who In­vested under the current tax code will complain if it is changed. "People have made financial deci­sions bao;ed on the current tax code," she said. "If the rules are changed, these people will argue that it is not fair." 

your way of thinking

United Limo Talks
~IIIIUI 

The Institute for American Universities in Canterbury continuedfrom page 1 ~ offers a unique progra~me of demanding, personalised 
111fli, 

instruction in liberal arts subjects. opposed ideao; cannot enter directly !0844 McKonley Hwv Omol• ~..,I~IUIIIIIHIII Try it. It'll permanently change your way of thinking. into negotiations, Pfeiffer added. 
Diplomats from each country will

For information, write to the Institute for American 
674..6993 ···. ~,~ '"n"JIImm handle most negotiation. According
Universities, 73 Castle STreet, Canterbury CTl 2QD, or 
to Pfeiffer, the leaders of the llnited

255..3068 i· Ill''!. j' !,, ..•·mn nHIIIJI see your campus study-abroad advisor. 
111 States and Soviet Union will onlyor till your Iravel ~qenl dl11il IWIIIIJIIIIII• I /Jll•lllllllllllllr.l
IIIII \ hHIIIIIPIII>II II 
meet If an agreement Is reached. 

. . .. .... ~..... ... . . . ...... '""'"''"''"''"' _________ .., ... ~.: .. ·...... _,:.,.. 

The Observer 

University settles with clothing manufacturer 
By GERARD GOLDNER  
NewsS«lf/  
The University of Notre Dame an­ 
nounced Friday that it had reached  
an out-of-court settlement on a suit  
filed earlier this year against Artex  
Manufacturing Company of Over­ 
land Park, Kan.  
Notre Dame rued the suit against  
Artex because the clothing manufac­ 
turer had allegedly infringed on the  
University's trademarks by produc­ 
ing and selling clothing bearing  
Notre Dame marks without official  
licensed permission. Notre Dame  
pursued legal help to end the abuse,  
which had continued for over a year.  
Since infringement of trademarks  
is a federal crime, the suit was rued  
in U.S. District Court for the Nor­ 
thern Indiana District. However, the  
settlement was reached out-of-court  
on the day it was scheduled to be ar­ 
raigned.  
The settlement between the Uni­ 
versity and Artex was an  
undisclosed amount of money and  
included a license agreement. Under  
Opium-like  
chemical may  
f  help strokes  
r  
r  
r  Associated Press  
I  
~  NEW YORK ­Injections of a brain  
chemical resembling opium may 
I  save the lives ofstroke victims by al­ 
~  lowing the brain to quickly shuffle  
information out of damaged areas  
into healthy nerve cells, a new study  
with animals suggests.  
According to a report to be pub­ 
lished today in "Nature" magazine,  
six of I 0 cats given the drug  
survived massive, laboratory­ 
induced strokes; 12 cats not given  
the drug died after similar strokes.  
Half a million Americans a year  
suffer from strokes, in which bleed­ 
ing or clotting disrupts blood flow to  
part of the brain, and brain cells in  
that area die.  
Depending upon how much ofthe  
brain is lost, strokes can be fatal or  
can leave their victims partly  
paralyzed, unable to speak or mis­ 
sing large pieces of their memories.  
No drugs are now available to  
limit the damage from strokes, said  
one ofthe authors ofthe new report,  
Nancy Lee, a pharmacologist at the  
University of California in San Fran­ 
cisco.  
The chemical, called dynorphin,  


paradoxically does not limit damage to the brain even though it alleviates the subsequent loss of bodily func­tions, Ms. Lee said. 
She and her colleagues, including Y oshio Hosobuchi, a neurosurgeon at the University of California, found no change in the size ofthe damaged brain area or in the blood flow to the brain after administration of the drug. 
"If that's the case, the next line of thinking would be that it allows the brain to reorganize itself and survive," said Ms. Lee. 
In the experiment reported in "Nature", the drug was given to the cats · six hours after surgeons blocked a major artery supplying blood to their brains. The six-hour period was chosen carefully. 
"We figure that's about the time it takes for the patient to get to the hospital and get to intensive care for the administering ofdrugs," said Ms. Lee. 
The researchers are so excited by their findings that they are already preparing to ask the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for permission to try dynorphin with human beings, !IOIDC:thing that could begin in as lildc as a year, Ms. Lee said. 
the University licensing program, 
which began in June 1983, manufac­turers are permitted to legally produce and sell articles bearing Notre Dame trademarks. Artex Manufacturing Company now joins 24 other manufacturing companies which are officially licensed to use the University trademark. A special licensing committee evaulates and determines which companies will receive licenses. Champion Licens­ing Division of Rocbester, N. Y., is the University's official licensing agent. 
Although this type of transgres­sion is relatively rare, University General Counsel Philip Faccenda said the University must be firm in response to cases ofinfringement or else Notre Dame will eventually lose rights to its own trademarks. 
"The University of Notre Dame prizes its reputation and considers its name and associated trademarks to be vaulable assets," Faccenda said. "It will continue to protect these as­sets through vigorous enforcement and an active licensing program, to which we now welcome Artex." 

Plant a Smile 

d-:=:,:Lo._r._l2=3_0-5=3_oGARDENS 
Thursday, December 6, 1984 -page 4 


You want evidence that winter is here? You got it than 50-50 chance ofsnow. It's ttme to pull out the -St. Mary's Lake freezes over even asyou read. Tem­flannel underwear, heavy gloves and boots. Winter peratures are expected to drop today, with a better is here. 
IAMERICAN 

TCANCER 
~SOCIE1Y® 










Get Involved! 

We need you! 
Work for 2 hours a week laying out a daily student newspaper. Chance for promotion high. Stop in at The Observer offices and fill out an application. 

The Observer 
3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center 


Spots open for next semester 



&upereooter 
Rental 
• 
Holds 1/4 or 1h barrels 

• 
Holds 7 cases of bottles or cans 

• 
Cools up to 3 days with 271bs. of ice 

• 
$15 a day with free 251bs of ice 



Artificial Ice, Inc. 525 N. Niles 233-9303 
OPEN: 
8-5Mon-Thurs 
8 -5:30 Fri &Sat 

----------------------------·---­
r-----------------·---­
Th_ur-sd-ay...

VieW.~_o_i_n__t________ , D.;;..;.ec~em.;.;;;.be;.;.r6;.;..,1;.;.98;..;.4~pa~ge;.;.S 

---------------------:~~~ 
Got an opionion, drop us a line. 
If you would like to respond to sometbing Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, you've read in 'Ilte Observer, why not write a or deltvered to ettber our Notre Dame office in letter to tbe editor. Letters sbould be well· LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's written, typed, no more tban 250 words in office in Haggar College Center. le,gtb and must bear tbe signature of tbe au· tbor. Letters wbicb are not signed by tbe author The Observer reseroes tbe rlgbt to edit all wtll not bepub/lsbed. material submttted to tbe Viewpoint depart· 
Letters to tbe editor can be matted to The mentforpubltcatton. 

Desperate patriotism of the Polish people 
"I am under constant surveillance. I am Weinberger, our bellicose secretary of prepared for anything." Those are words from defense, could be so insensitive as to call him the statement, published in the New York publicly "a Russian soldier in a Polish uni­Review of Books, by Jerzy Popieluszko, the form." martyred Polish priest. "The church's future," By all accounts,jaruzelskiis a Polish patriot, 
like his counterpart whom he is working closely with, Cardinal Glemp. Both men speak for national traditions they want to preserve, Garry Wills without a suicidal showdown against the Rus­sians. It Is easy for those whose wives and children are not the "pawns" at stake to say
outrider 
theirs is a wishy-washy solution, entirely vacil­lating, compromising with evil. 

History has forced on many good men such he wrote, "will be the society's future. The compromises. Robert E. Lee was an opponent "·burch's mission is to be with the people here of slavery and a believer in the union of. this through thick and thin, and this mission I nation. He had served at West Point and had believe the church will never renounce." sworn an oath to the Constitution. But when Father Popieluszko was opposing the Polish war came-against his wishes, and unjust in his authorities · so they killed him, right? Well, own eyes -he decided he would have to stand maybe. But in that case, why did those very with his own kindred, erring as they were, and same authorities reveal the crime, capture the labor to kill his former comrades from West murderers and pursue their accomplices? As Point to protect a compromised territory of the veering and tacking motions of Father his actual endangered friends. He was a pa­Popieluszko's own church suggest, it is too triot, and we honor him while abominating simple to say that Poland is part of the evil the causes -slavery, disunion -for which he empire, and all its ways are a darkness. had to fight In one ofhistory's harder corners. 
We said that of China, and of North Korea, Jaruzelski deserves some such sympathy as he and ofNorth Vietnam, a.'i we stlll say it ofCuba carries on a fight to keep Poland relatively in­and Nicaragua · not recognizing the mixture dependent. of nationalism, pride, personal ambition and The best guess is that the murderers of Fa-. even misplaced idealism in some Marxist ther Popieluszko were trying to end the regimes. And it is especially foolish to say collaboration of the Polish state with the when we are dealing with Poland, a deeply re­Polish church, to topple jaruzelski and ligious country with a long history of griev­weaken Glemp. It would be a ghastly irony if ances against Russia. Gen. Wojclech America helped along the murderers' en­Jaruzelski, the current ruler of Poland, is son deavor. and grandson of Polish military officers who were killed by the Russians. Yet Caspar (C) 1984, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
,The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Obser~er 1s the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the polic1es of the administration of either InStitution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of then authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 


In search of more worthy communication 
As we approach the end ofthe semester and of letters to the editor have asked: What is the the close of another year, we may wish to character of Notre Dame? Does this institu­1
,
reflect on a few things we have learned about tion have an identity that distinguishes it from 
,
communication. other educational institutions? Is it different 
,
This column, throughout the fall, has used or, rather, does it make a difference in the 
,
the national elections as a forum for discuss-lives ofstudents, faculty, alumni and the world 
,
at large? 

,
Through all the examples of "communication" dismay at the football

Chris Robinson 
team's performance, drinking on or off campus, inadequate social events (from thea larger view perspective of either men or women), the abortion controversy -is there a thread that runs through the fabric of our existence 

ing the structure and exercise of comunica­which makes a meaningful experience possi­tion. In reviewing that scene, an incident ble? came to mind which might serve as a I propose an experiment. This experiment springboard for a summary. could start us on the road to being more aut­
Political issues were being examined on a hentic in our perceptions of what is going on campus near Notre Dame, and faculty as well in the world, as well a..'i the way in which we as students were invited to submit their views ihtcract with others. to the campus newspaper. With anticipation I After exams, try turning off the volume sat down to read these "in-depth" presenta­when watching television. That's right, just tions, and with disappointment I noted that silently look at the stream of images that flow faculty and students alike were merely reflect­across the screen in vivid, perfectly packaged, 1 ing on a local level what was occurring on the better-than-lifelike color. Look at the way the l national scene. Slogans, brief political stuff of life is fashioned into a net designed to 1 "arguments" and "folk wisdom" lure you into laughter, fright, arousal or the predominated throughout. I was left with a nearest convenience store. Ba.'iic and beauti­sense of frustration that somehow our educa­ful things, personal things such as love and tional process was Inadequate, at least in laughter, sorrow and sex become mediums of terms of getting across the dynamics of exchange, tools of conquest in a dehumaniz­healthy, vibrant, meaningful communication. ing, frightening way. 
What have we learned recently? Many sift Go to a motion picture. Sit there with your the ashes ofthe Reagan firestorm trying to dis­eyes dosed. Smell the popcorn, experience cover trends or hidden messages. Winners the noisy, jostling crowd, hear the soundtrack and losers alike make pronouncements based spin past with its music, vocalizations and on their narrow perceptions of reality, con­sound effects. When it's over, ask if the effect tinuing to play the "game" of politics with was worth the price ofadmission. little regard for the rights and needs ofothers. Go to a bookstore or library. Stand and ,Some take the election as the first step toward really look at the rows upon rows of accum­
1
future political goals. Others simply are ulated knowledge. Close your eyes and feel 
1 
relieved that the nation, having passed the pages. Smell the paper. Become lost in the ., through the obligatory electoral process, can sea of paper and plastic that have become the , now get back to "business as usual"-whatever instruments ofcivilized learning. '1
,
that may be. In short, as constituents of an idea called 
,
But what have we, the people of Notre Notre Dame, begin the search for meaningful Dame -here and now -learned about the way communication in the serenity of our own we communicate or, perhaps just as impor­lives. We must, to surrender to an old phrase, tant, about the way we function in the multi­"get in touch with ourselves." We must sense ple world of politics, economics, religion, our being, ascertain our nature, feel our education and humanitarian relationships? response to the world around us and think 
Perhaps we sec that we arc a noisy people, about what we arc doing and why. Think surrounded by a roar of sense perceptions about what we should be doing and how to that keep us from the thing we fear most -make it happen. facing ourselves in the silence of our own Then we might make better sense from the being. Whether it is politics or football games, next election, our next assignment or job or, walkmans or stereo videos, the human condi­hopefully, next year. tion is being increasingly characterized by Best wishes for an authentic 1985. high noise and low fidelity, abundant quantity but questionable quality. Chris Robinson Is a doctoral sociology stu­
Spread out the issues of Tbe Observer, for dent atNotre Dame and a regular Viewpoint instance, and ask yourself what some writers columnist. 
P.O. BoxQ 

Christmas is a time of giving and loving 
Dear Editor: 

During the Christmas season I often reflect on my humble beginnings in a small farming community in Des Moines, Iowa. I remember my mother with her calloused hands which symbolized the good within all ofus. I remem­ber my father with his gruff voice and iron fist which were monuments to the strength ofour family. 
Christmas, what docs it mean? Is it the flash· ing lights that adorn the various houses around America? Is it G.I. joe and Barbie, Rlunite and L.L. Bean? I say it is not. I say it is more, oh, so much more than that! As the song says, it is "Peace on earth, good will to men." Christmas is a time ofgiving and loving! 
Well, that is my reminder. I hope all the memcbcrs of the Notre Dame community take heed and remember to love each other with their whole heart. God Bless! 
Ken Munro 
Dtl/onHa/1 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Edlfor-m-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . Dave Ta1clet Managtng Edilor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller . . .... Maripat Horne News Editor . . .. Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . . ... Anne Culligan News Editor ........... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . .. Jell O'Neill Samt Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager. . Kevin Williams Sports Editor... ......... M1chael Sull1van Production Manager. .. Chr1s Bowler Viewpomt Editor . . . . . . ... Dave Grote Project Manager . Amy Stephan Features Editor. . Mary Healy Photo Edttor _. . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 






Accent 
Magazine juggles way to students' hands 
, 
~' 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
~ 
I" 
r­r­
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
f 
r 
r 
Sam Moore 
features staff writer 


Books 

C
ontrary to the knowledge of many, there exists another University magazine in addition to theScholastic, the Technical Review, and theNotre Dame maga­zine. This magazine is thejuggler ­the free, student-published, semian­nual literary magazine ofNotre Dame. Thejuggler features poems, short stories, essays, photographs, and artwork. Significantly, all of these works are done by students. The glossy look ofthejuggler ex­emplifies its professional style. Let us look into thejuggler, this fine publication that, unfortunately, has seemed to escape the notice of most Notre Dame students. 
Thejuggler strives to maintain its high quality while offering "ordinary people", i.e. students, the opportunity for the publication of their works. Usa Guerra, the editor­in-chief of this year'sjuggler, says that the importance ofpublishing students' works exclusively cannot be overemphasized. At other uni­versities, the literary magazine often serves as a forum only for more established and famous writ­ers. Consequently, most young artisans never get the chance to be published, the chance for recogni­tion that might springboard them to more widespread attention. Guerra says that one of the best functions ofher work is when she informs the students that their works have been selected for the-juggler. These works are first-rate. The editorial board carefully sifts through all of the material submitted, only select­
ing the most impressive works for publication. The artwork and pho­tography are usually chosen from students' works at the Art Building. The quality ofthese works testify to the abundant talent of these Notre Dame students, which testifies to the broad scope oftalent in the student body. 
The publication process began last spring, when Guerra was ap­pointed editor-in-chief. ·She then assembled an editorial board. The 
juggler next solicited, through 
advertisements, for manuscripts. 
Out of these -in particular, 
manuscripts from the creative 
writing courses -the board selected 
the best works. Thejuggler then 
sent the selected works to Notre 
Dame's Ave Maria Press, where Ave 
Maria made galley prints from the 
literature and photo-reduced the 
artwork. Ave Maria then sent back 
the material for thejuggler to 
"layout" the magazine. After 
thc;fuggler laid out the material, it 
was sent back to Ave Maria for 
printing. Using the traditional 
glossy, square-shaped format, 1300 
copies were printed. 
This is a small amount due to the limited budget ofthejuggler. Despite increased University fun­ding, and a subsidy from the Stu­dent Activities Board, this problem exist because its cost is not in­cluded in the tuition fee. Conse­quently, it is too expensive to print enough copies for every member of the Notre Dame community. The 

juggler is strategically placed in the academic buildings and the LaFortune Student Center. This approach is only partially effective for students eagerly snap up all of the available copies. Consequendy, most students never see ajuggler copy. The onlyjuggler that I previ­ously owned was the Spring, 1982 edition that I received in my fresh­man English class. I was fortunate enough to receive a copy to read for this article for I have not seen another copy elsewhere. Upon seeing my copy, more than a few people have said, "What's that?" In light ofthis visible problem, the 
juggler will ask for more funding from the Board·of Trustees. Copies ofthejuggler are available from the English Office. 
The selections in thejuggler are an enjoyable experience to read, view, and understand, ifone has an open-minded attitude while doing so. Many people seem to be unwill­ing to give poetry a chance to enter­tain them and others worry they will not get the "right" message from the poem. A. more relaxed attitude will replace this tension with an inquisitive feeling that makes one more conducive to poetry reading. This attitude is that whatever one gets from a poem is valid. Since we are all unique, it is logical that one person will get one idea from a poem, and another person will get a different idea. Aside from all of this seriousness, a poem provides, in an educational way, relaxation and fun. 
There is a diversity ofsubject matter in thejuggler. The photogra­phy ranges from a photograph of a rural family, to an abstract study of clashing lines. The artwork includes a haunting self-portrait, a carnival dance, a fantasmal vision of a "woman-tree", and a painting that I believe is initially humorously witty, "...And Then There Were Three", by Daniel Ellis. The short stories and poems cover a wide scope of topics; they are all written from a powerful, personal perspec­tive. On the whole, the Fall, 1984 
edition ofthejuggler provides a 
cohesive, and satisfying collage of 
art and literature-all ofhigh 
quality; all produced by Notre 
Dame students. 
For all of those who rashly con­nect any expressions offine art with "elitism", thejuggler will serve to enlighten your view. Thejuggler is accessible; it only asks that it be appreciated in its own right -as an entertaining and cultural journal of thought and artistic expression. The 

juggler is a lasting and progressive magazine; Prof. John Matthias has been the faculty advisor for fifteen years. The pages ofthejuggler hold the works ofyoung writers and artists learning their craft. It will not be surprising if these names figure prominently in the worlds ofart and literature in the future. The 
juggler will, hopefully, receive enough funds to be made easily available to the whole Notre Dame community;. in the meantime, it would be an intelligent decision to make the trip to the English Office to get ajuggler, and to hold on to that copy. 





'Dune' filled with the heat ofToto 
mood ofthe film. In this aspect, the known as Dune. This is a vital part album's best tracks. Its bizarre, work ofToto seems to shine. of the story and definitely some­melancholy synthesizers create a 
Don Seymour 
The album opens with a prologue thing that should not be forgotten. haunting, unsettling effect -the that effectively orients the listener This slip, however, comes directly perfect theme for the supernatural (or viewer) to the world of Dune. from the screenplay by David in an already strange world.
Records 
lhe voice of the narrator, Princess Lynch. "Dune (Desert Theme)," the lrulan, issues forth in a serene, regal The "Main Title" immmediately album's first single, opens the monotone. Here I encoutered a follows the prologue. Its heart, a second side and quickly proves to
A 1975 readers poll voted it out like those ofjohn Williams in majestic, four note theme that 
features staffwriter 

flaw that, once again, cannot be be the album's strongest piece. This the greatest novel ofimagina-Star Wars andSuperman. Only attributed to Toto. At one point, the speaks ofsome imperative drama, recognizable theme, in its pop style, tion ofall time. Now, Frank Her­certa1n tracks distinguish them­narrator concedes that she's forgot­recurs frequently throughout the sounds the most like Toto. The bert's science fiction opus, Dune, selves enough to provide long-term ten to divulge some information, score. This motif is the closest the dominant piano melody over­has finally been made into a motion listening pleasure, but this follows namely that the consciousness­score comes to a distinct, presents but does not over-power picture. The story ofa desert planet from no fault ofToto. A expanding spice melange can only memorable theme, but the opening the guitar and evokes memories of in the far distant future, in a world soundtrack's purpose is to set the be found on the planet Arrakis, also flourish remains impressive, almost "Rosanna" or "99." The song prob­
where computers have been 
urgent, about the ensuing epic of ably will never be heard on radio outlawed, and where most ofthe doom, endurance, and stupendous but it's a pleasure to listen to and known world is addicted to a mental achievements. With no 
should be the most remembered of consciousness-expanding spice, is pause, the "Main Title" fades di­all the tracks. now a Dino De Laurentiis film di­rectly into "Robot Fight," the first of rected by David Lynch. This ex­a number ofpieces with interesting 
"Paul Takes the Water ofUfe" has travaganza should hit the theaters percussion. The relentless, metallic 
the bizarre feeling ofa warped slow within a few weeks; consequently, drums perfectly give the impression 
motion scene that reaches a loud, the soundtrack merits a look. of robots. Likewise, "First Attack" 
violent, shrieking peak. "Big Battle" uses deep, throbbing almost 

starts out like tension music from Suprisingly, most ofthe score was military-like drums as the backbone 
Magnum PJ. or some such composed and performed by the ofa rhythm section with a bass that 
detective show with its driving pop group Toto, that L.A. studio gets downright funky at the end. 
bongos, but turns into a victoryband that swept the Grammys two 
march with the return of the main 

years ago with their album Toto IV "Leto's Theme," written about title theme. Finally, "Take Myand its hits "Rosanna" and "Africa." 
the main character's father, mourns Hand," another pop-sounding cut, Be sure, though, that the Dune poignantly ofhinted power that is sports such a tight piano melodysoundtrack is not a rock album. 

lost. "The Box" sounds suspiciously that it could have been written with Indeed the members have woven 
like The Twilight Zone theme in lyrics in mind. It's a sentimental an eerie, ominous, majestic score part. "The Floating Fat Man" nicely number. 

combining their keyboard and escapes the cliched somberness The Dune soundtrack is not an guitar-based sound with the sym­usually reserved for evil by using album that you should rush out and phonic thunder ofthe Vienna Sym­what sounds like an electronic buy for its memorable songs. In­phony Orchestra. The results not harpsichord, hitting fast see-sawing stead, it's more the type ofa non­only surprise but delight with a 

notes. distracting album that would be putgrandness that fits the epic story. 

Brian Eno's "Prophecy Theme," on while doing homework. It's the only number not written by pleasing to listen to, but it may be The album's only problem is that 
members ofToto, closes out the more affecting after you've seen the it is a soundtrack. No themes stand 
first side. It proves to be one of the movie. 


 
Thursday, December 6, 1984 ­page 6 -7  
Hanoi Rock-a thorn in the foot Don'tyou ever leave me baby Ifyou leave meyou will kill meTim Adams now  Beauty in old l~dies and housernates  

features staff writer 
Records 

H 
anol Rocks has nothing t<~ do with Hanoi at all. This qumtet formed in Finland and is now based In London. lbclr record company, CBS, believes it is time for them to take on America, and they hope to do that with their first U.S. album, Two Steps From tbe Move. Hanoi Rock.~ bears a resemblance to a lot of heavy metal bands, though they really only play hard rock. Their lead singer, Mike Monroe, looks like a bleach-blonde girl (a Ia Motley Crue), and the rest of the band look likt• they could fit In well in an alley. Their produl·er, Bob Ezrin, manned the controls for numerous albums by Ki11s and Alice Cooper, and so it seems Hanoi Rock.~ wants to con­tinue in this vein. '!bey play hard r01.:k, but it isn't very original. 
Monroe sounds like a con· giomt·ration of David Johansen strut, Robin Zander pop, and your average sod's lack of talent. On the first song, a cover of Creedence Clearwater Revival's "Up Around the Hend," he struggles to maintain a pitch, and often times he fails. Where John Fogerty succeeds in belting out even the high notes, Monroe rendt·rs them flat and grating. 'Ibis version adds nothing to the song except a purposeless, ham-headed singalong at then end. Monroe also sings the word "bend" like your typical macho heavy metal stud, extending it much longer than it needs to be. He tries to scream like Fogerty, but prooves himself as a poor comparison. But even with all these faults, "Up Around the nend" is still Trvo Steps's best, or least bad, song. 
Hanoi Rock.~ do attempt humor in the song "High School," a moronic tune that displays an amazingly had sense of arrangement on the part ofco-writers Ezrln ami guitarist Andy McCoy. lbc different parts of the song do not logically follow each other; they sound as if they're from different songs. Monroe sings about how he was given so much grief in school, and his plan ro get revenge· by teaching high school!! Here are S<'<ne of the lyrics: 
I tell tbe little buggers what to 
wear, you know I sbow 'em bow to set and dye their hair and baby 
There'll be no costumes at our 
swimming pool There'll be no ugly girls at my high school 



15% Discount 

~ notincluding . 
· sale Items 
has been told hundreds of times before, and we really don't need these chaps to do it again. "Million Miles Away" is another re-tread, this time about a guy in prison who misses a girl who is figuratively, you guessed it, a million miles away. This has been said before, but to make matters worse, it is played up to full grandeur: a lot ofquiet moments followed by booming 
instruments · yet another cliche. 
Fans of Kiss may enjoy the Kiss­like "Boulevard of Broken Dreams," with its S & M lyrics and powerful playing. And the best original song on Two Steps From the Move, is 

Nice, huh? And to top it off, "High School" includes a guitar solo where the guitarist cannot keep up with the tempo in one place, and also a Kevin DuBrow/Quiet Riot· type scream at the end. All the elements for a bad song! 
In a few other songs, Hanoi Rock.~ tries to create some serious meanings by utilizing cliched situa­tions. "Don't You Ever Leave Me" is such an ordinary song that I wonder why they even bothered to include it. The chorus, which goes "Boiler," which I guess is a nickname for "girl." All the band 
members sing this one, and I am reminded ofa soft sea-chant when hearing it. For once, the vocals aren't strained or hyperactive, and the result Is a passable, yet offen· sive, song. 
Whether or not Two Steps From the Move becomes a hit, I still won't like it. What Hanoi Rocks needs is some more talent, and truckloads of originality. In today's already too heavy metal/hard rock-dominated music scene, Hanoi Rocks Is just another thorn in the foot. 


by M.d. Murray 
features staff writer 

I 
suppose it's not the most natural progression for a person to go from Business major to Holy Cross Associate. My classes In accounting and finance did little to prepare me for my experience as a Holy Cross Associate. Yet, in reflecting I see that even though my major was not directly applicable, my four· year college experience was. Somehow during my tenure at Saint Mary's I realized what really mattered in life was God, myself and others. This realization added a fullness to my life · a fullness that I wanted to continue developing long after I had the sheepskin In hand. I did not want to isolate what I had learned in college; Instead, I wanted it to become part of the process we call life. 
I'm not sure how doing a year ofvolunteer work surfaced in my mind, but once it did, it seemed right. I wanted the opportunity to serve people whose backgrounds were different than mine, as well as the chance to live in a community. More importantly was to have a volunteer experience rooted in my Christian faith. Any other way would seem to be self-serving or shallow. 
As an Associate I worked for an in-home-health care agency. Each day I drove from house to house to assist people who, because of illness ofage, could no longer perform many of life's most basic tasks. I helped them with.their baths, shopping and housecleaning. But most ofall, 1 was there to be their friend. No matter how many debits and credits I pondered over in college, I could not have been prepared for these people who became my treasured friends. 
There was Mary Vaughn, an 84-year-old widow, who retired to her bed at age 75. Each day Mary lived on a diet ofsoap-operas and chocolate. The only time she took a bath the entire time 1knew her was when Greg and Jenny married on the soap "All My Children"· no lie. I remember how naive I was when I first began visiting Mary. I knew she had been in and out of the hospital for malnutrition, and I told myself that I would help her understand the importance of expanding her culinary tastes. After three frustrating months, the young secretary in our office said to me, "Hey, who wouldn't want to sit around all day and watch soap-operas and eat chocolate stars?" It then dawned on me that no one was forcing Mary to live like this. She had chosen this lifestyle basically because she was lonely. By being ill she was assured that at least three times a week she would have a visitor from our agency. Mary didn't need a 22-year-old to poach eggs for her· what she needed was a friend. To this day Mary Is still one of my friends. She knows it, too, because every few months I send her a bag ofchocolates just to remind her that she is loveable as she is. 
Another amazing part of my Associate year was living in community. At first I thought that community living would be a breeze. After all, I come from a large family and all my experiences with roommates have been positive. It was when I met the other two women and two men,with whom I was to spend my HCA year, that I k.new once again I'd been naive. They were nice but seemed so different from me. As the year went on that thought proved to be true. They were nice and they were different. Because of these differences we grew to k.now, challenge, accept, confrnnt, and love each other. Living in that community was one of the best experiences of my life. 1 think 1experienced every emotion possible as 1came to a clearer understanding of why God's challenge to "love our neighbor" can be so difficult to live out. I could have lots ofpatience with an 84-year-old woman who hated baths but little with a 22-year-old housemate who hated vacuums. 
1grew a lot during my Associate year. I became a better listener, 

l--=~~~~~::~~~::::::~::::::::::::::::::;;;;;;~~----ni~~~~~~~~~~~P.JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.illllilllilllllllllll~l 



OFFICE OF Sacred Heart Church 

LNMRSITY MINISTRY 

The Solemnity of the l~maculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary 
Vigil Celebration 
supporter,bath-giver,cookand friend. But most importantly I became a better Christian. God changed for me during that year. God was not something that was abstract or liturgical; God was in the beauty that surrounded me · be it the mountains; little, old ladies; or housemates. At the end of my Asso· elate year I was afraid that when I left, alii had learned would evaporate. But! was wrong. What Holy Cross Associates did for me was help me to continue the process of k.nowing and loving God, myselfand others. That process continued last year when 1 was the administrator for Senior Bar and this year In my job with HCA. As I look ahead, the process seems destined to continue. 

Christmas PoHery Sale 
(Graduate Works) December 6 &7 all day JO'Shaugh~essy Hall 


Friday, December 7th

Students 

5:00p.m. 
Music provided by the Notre Dame Glee Club Celebrant & Homilist: Fr. David Tyson, C. S.C. 
Saturday, December 8th 
11:30 a.m. Celebrant: Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 

Concord & Pierre Moran 
Malls -Elkhart 
Thursday, December 6, 1984-page 8




Sports Briefs 
Johnson signs with Texas 
Henderson set to become a Yankee 
TheAnnyROTC rifle tean1 defeated the DePaul Assoclated Press tee of attention as the major league also announced they had sent
varsity rifle team in a meet last weekend. Phil Foster shot the highest portion of the owners' convention catcher Rick Cerone to the Atlanta
score, and his p~rformance was supported by Michele Ritchie, Jim HOUSTON The New York began with a policy-level meeting of Braves for 22-year-old right-hander
Beiter and Rob Burke. -Tbe Obseroer Yankees made their third deal ofthe the Player Relations Committee and Brian Fisher, who was assigned to 1984 baseball winter meetings yes­a joint meeting of the two leagues' the Class AAA Columbus Clippers. terday, reaching an agreement that top executives. johnson signed a three-year deal Awhite-waterrafting tripis being sponsored by 
couid put Oakland A's outfielder The PRC handles labor negotia­with the Rangers, who plan to use NVA during spring break. The trip will be organized by Colorado 
Rickey Henderson in pinstripes. tions for baseball, and the Basic him as their designated hitter. Outward Bound. An important meeting for anyone who is interested 
There was a flurry ofactivity at the Agreement with players expires on The Red Sox, meanwhile, were of­will be held this Sunday, Dec. 9, at-~p.m. in the football auditorium at 
meetings as the Texas Rangers also Dec. 31. fering Rice for the first time in trade. the ACC. Anyone who has questions but is unable to attend the 
announced the signing of free-agent Lee MacPhail, former American Their first feeler for the outfielder meeting should call Sally at 239-6690. -Tbe Obseroer 
designated hitter Cliff johnson and League President who now heads came from the Houston Astros, but the Boston Red Sox continued to of· the PRC, said the major area of con­Astros President and General fer jim Rice in trade. tention with the Major League Manager AI Rosen said the Red Sox 
The deal for Henderson, the big­Players Association is a union were asking for too much. 
gest name traded at the meetings demand that contributions to player Rice, 31, will be entering the final through Thursday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Obseroer office on the third 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
since 1980, was contingent on the benefits be tied to television money. year of a nso;ooo-per-year deal floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -Tbe Obseroer 
Yankees being able to reach agree­The players want one-third of with the Red Sox in 1985. Rice ment on a contract with the player's baseball's $1 billion television con­reportedly is seeking a contract that agent, Richie Bry. The Yankees were tract with ABC and NBC. The will earn him $2.4 million per year. given 48 hours to make an accep­owners would rather set a flat rate. Several other trades apparently
The ND/SMC Ski Oub will be meeting for mem­
table offer. The two sides met twice before were in the works. bers to register for tryouts on Monday at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune 
Henderson holds the major these meetings, and MacPhail said Toronto, trying to acquire a relief Little Theatre. All members must attend and bring money for sweat­
league record for stolen bases, with they would meet twice more in New pitcher, reportedly nixed a deal with shirts and turtlene,ks. For more information, call Kate at 277-4706.­
130 in 1982. He stole 81 bases last York, probably on Dec. 11 and 13, Mofitreal that would have brought 
Tbe Obseroer 

season, when he drove in 58 runs then twice in Los Angeles on Dec. 18 jeffReardon to the Blue jays. The Ex­with 16 homers and a .293 batting and 19. pos may have been asking for _too average. In addition to johnson's signing much -players like Damaso Garcia 
johnson and Rice were at the cen-with Texas, the New York Yankees and jesse Barfield. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from<) a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of· Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is 10 cents per five charac­



Classifieds 
ters erda •. 

Money found last week on the grass near  Riders needed to Minneapolis on Mon.  MINT  CHICKS:  YOU  GOTIA  lOVE  MARK QUIGLEY  ATIENTION N.D. FEMALES  
NOTICES  Memorial Library. Cell 283-1904 if you want to claim it.  Oec.17.C&IIJoanat1580.  OBES, HIS BIRTHDAY IS COMING UPI  I'm aorry th.t 1forgot to do what you aked on llondlly.lt'•ln todlly. Did I do  Are there any of you out there that got asked out more than 1 or 2 times in high  
Need ride to Cleveland, on Thurs. or  I've got a date with Santa for Christmas  Itright? LET THE GOOD nilES ROLLI!  school? If so (I know there are some of  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117  HORSE DIED-NEED MY MITIENS BACK.If anybody picked up my blue leat­ Friday, Dec. 6 or 7. Will share usual. Call Dan Reagan at 234-0494 (night) or 239­ and I don't want to stand him up, 80 help me and the jolly old elf get together in St.  you out there !) send a resume to: "I Got Asked Out More than Once in High  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER, 233-7009  CALl  her mittens at the last home football gam&-Penn. State. Please return them to Kevin-3828 NOW!  7312 (day) Need to sell my place on the NO ski  Louis. If you can give me a ride there for Christmas break call Maureen at 1333. ..................................................  NINER FEVER ...NINER FEVER .. NINER FEVER ... NINER FEVER The Super Bowt is coming to Stanford and the NINERS will  School" P.O. Box69 N.D. Indiana  
TYPING Jackie Boggs 684-8793  LOST: New, black, compact umbrella with wood handle. Lost in Washington Hall or Library, 2nd floor. If you have it, please  team's trip to Colorado Jan. 4 -11. Will negotiate price. Nqra4271 Grandma's Toil House cookies are in the  STAINS IS A BIG TOOL • THATS ALL II!!!!! si-iAiii<.'ri-iiiioi-i·ii:s·;;~ii·vou:s:·BAIT  be there .... What happened to JOe Theis­mann and the 'Skins? ... 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS49ERS  C/0 "Your Favorite Unde" TotheRABIOBATS:  
call George, 349913200.  oven • I've got to get to PITISBURGH!  What a team! Way to play, guys, you were  
Finished on 12/14. Please call Tom ]287­ HEY PATTY FAGAN ...ENJOY YOUR  awesome!  
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES :zn.-.5  LOST INTERMEDIATE ACCT. TEXT (Chasteen) from South Dining Hall on  3263/287-3138.  MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS: For sale in room 204 Walsh or 319 Farley. $6 each or  DAY! SOMEBODY'S WATCHING YOU ...YEP, YOUR K.K.I!! SMILE, BUD!  And Charles, This could have been an entire insert rt you had coop­erated.  
PICKUP AND DELIVERY  Dec. 5. Initials "MP" on Book. Call 232­ 2for$10.  Maybe next time .... Doris Holiday.  
0648 no questions asked.  WANTED: RIDE TO O'HARE ON DEC.  
To the dogknappers (you know who you  BOSTON CLUB BREAK BUS ­Going to  18. I NEED TO BE AT THE AIRPORT BY  Dear Helen, Aren't study breaks fun?  
are): I want my dog back now! (you know who I  Lost : Basketball tickets at IU game. In section 5, may have been given to person  FOR SALE  Boston for Christmas Break. Leaving on Dec. 19 at 6:30pm and returning on Jan.  2:30PM. PLEASECALLJOHNAT 1118.  Good luck on finals! See you tomorrow. By the way, where is Toledo? Love, Mike  
am too) Have some Christmas spirit!  in row 6. Please call Jack ]239-n09 or 2n-6479. Thanx.  14. Price is $100 round trip. Signups are Thursday Dec. 6 at 7:00pm in LaFortune.  fO MARY HERRERA: LET'S GET BOMBED ON PEARL HARBOR DAYI  
$50 deposit mandatory.  HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY!! LOVE, AN·  Dogknapp-.: 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS '85 AP·  FOUND:  PAIR  OF  WOMEN'S  FOR SALE:  GEL AND PATTY  Look,  I've been cooperating.  I haven't  
PLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CEN­ EYEGLASSES IN RED VELVET CASE  '72Skylark  BOOM!  taken this to the authorities and  have  
TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS.  OUTSIDE OF WALSH. CALl283-1667.  Body: PO« Engine: Good  TO OUR "LITILE FRIEND" MARY HER­ pretty much played along (even alter that  
$500 or beet offer  . .. how tasteless and obsolete  RERA: WELCOME TO WOMANHOOD!!  terrible photo of my dear one.)  
REGGIE SCHRADER: Wh..-eyou on the .,.,.,"11ol December 3?  LOST: SHARP El506H CALCULATOR TUES FROM CUSH TO PW.IF FOUND  Jell288-2042  FORTUNE  500 COMPANIES:  THE  HOPE 21ST!  YOU  HAVE  A  VERY  HAPPY  However, enough is enough! I miss him and I want him back now! My X-mas is  
PLEASE CALl3516!  LEWIS ME.'S, CLASS OF '87, ARE NOW  sure going to be lonely, so have a heart  
THE RABSIO BATS HAVE DONE IT THE  SCHEDULING  JOB  APPLICATIONS.  Riders needed to Minneapolis on Mon.  and return him please.  
RABBID  BATS  HAVE  DONE  IT  THE  LOST: Green Ski Gloves with blue on the  for sale! 76'VW RABBIT great conditions  SUBMIT YOUR (LUCRATIVE) OFFERS  Dec. 17. Call Joan at 1580.  
RABBID BATS HAVE DONE IT SUL­ palms. lost at SMC. Call 284-4418 or  for info call 1459  NOW AND AVOID COSTLY BIDDING  
LIVAN, TIERNEY, GRABER, DELAHANTY, WOO, AND HACKETT  drop off at rm. 442 Holy Cross(SMC). REWARD OFFERED!  FOR SALE: NO JACKETS AND RUGBY  WARS LATER. LOVE, B&G  She raised her wand The beautiful boat was gone  DON'T GIVE UP YETI! I You can still getto New York for only $182.00! Ry to Laguar­ 
AND THE REST OF THE BATS! ZAHM  SHIRTS. MAKE GREAT GIFTS. CALL  PITISBUROH CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS  The sky grew dark  dia Airport on Dec. 19withtheLong Island  
BEATS CARROLL, 2·1 AND A GREAT  JOEAT3100  Slgnupa, UIFortune Uttla Th-thla  The sea grew rough  Club. But don't wait too long, seats are  
CROWD TOO! Wordprocessing and typing -272-8827.  FOR RENT  FOR SALE: Reduced-fare round-trip airline ticket -open destination continen­ Sunuy at 7 p.m. $45 round trip, $30 one way. T-bu-.Tu•. and Weda.  And the boatsailed on and on and on and on and on and on  limited. Cell Pete Laches at 2453, or Paul Citarelli at 1762. Call now!  
........................... -. LOST/FOUND I  ROOMMATE WANTED CASTLE POINT APTS. CALL MIKE 2n-6463  tal US. Must be used by Jan. 8. C&ll287­2592.  WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN-UPS THURS 12/6 -7PM -2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE LVS: WED 12/19 --COST: $65 ROUND TRIP  But Puf'n'Stuf was watching too And knew exactly what to do ...  Thank You, St. Juda . !I!!WHOUGEIIII To my Simply Ravishing ROTC Roommate, Queen of the Sorin All·  
WILl  SHARE  MY  LUXURY  Nighter, the reason I get up every mor­ 
FOUND : BASKETBALL TICKETS CALL 1073  TOWNHOUSE WITH TWO RESPON­SIBLE/TRUSTWORTHYI FRIENOL Y MALE STUDENTS FOR NEXT TERM. 7  1971 OPEL2 OR, 4 SPEED,115,000 MI. DECENT BODY, RUNS WELl, $150. 239 6298 OR 283 2102  Tomorrow night. 10:30 pm. St. Ed's party room. CHRISTMAS AT THE ALOHA BOWL Be there. Aloha.  Bob Knight. JB Hall. Den Crum. Joe Meyer. Dig Phelps. Jer Tark. Jim Valve. left Driesell. Guy Lou.  ning(she shuts off my air-raid alarm), my N.Y. connection, Co-Founder of the Quote of the Week, & 1/2 the reason 249  
FOUND -Pair of ski gloves in South Dining Hall. -Umbrella In front ol Library.  MIN. WALK TO MAIN CAMPUS. CALL LEN 272-8582 AFTER 5 P.M. FOR IN­TERVIEW.  Blue Jean jacket--bought last break-­never worn-need xmas $--best offer Bill  MTV World Premiere Video Release Featuring  Fellow HP Frosh--1 mock you !!I  is THE Hot Spot in B.P .(the room's kinda yellow,isn't It?) HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY, ANN MARIE DURNING! Love, the Wr>­ 
C&ll232 • 0660 to identify. Aak for John T.  1597  K2 ·LIVE GIG FROM DALLAS  their GODOT Is a 4.0  man Who Will Eventually Give in to Her  
LOST-room & car keys on a BUD­ house for rent;walk to NO remodled, hd wd flrs, lireplace,garage 1 1/2 baths  starring Notre Dame student Chris Prebys  HUNGRY? CALl THE YELLOW SUB AT  Passionate Nature  
WEISER key chain lost beMMn South Dining Hall & Dillon nfound please call 1nB-Thanks!  upstairs totally carpeted (new) $275. pr mdlutll call287-7178  TICKETS  Coming to you soon... Look to your hall message board for fur­ther details  272-4453. FREE DELIVERY MQ-TH 8­11pm FR-SA 8pm-1am  YO CLAY: At least I don't sit ten feet away from them. 3M.  
................................................................ STOLEN: MY BICYCLE From the back of Cavanaugh, Wed. 28th or Thurs. 29th; is an old-type crui-. red body, white rims, black seat, white hand grips; no fenders; C'mon, dude, give me a break, I live O.C.  Housemate needed; cheap rent walking distance to NO. $93.75 permo plus one fifth of utilities. Two baths, two relrig's lg living rm kitchen graduate house. Ph 287­7178................................................................  NEED 4 DEPAUL TIX 1997 I  BIOL 201 FINAL EXAM 1. For you forensics pr&-mllds: What term classifies a Rhesus monkey that got run over by a lawn mower  TO LORI BETH: WE TOOK YOU TO REGINA! MR. AND MRS. C COULDN'T BELIEVE RICHIE'S ACTIONS, BUT HE DIDN'T GET "V". BUT OUR HOUSE WAS KEPT, YOU LONESTAR. WHERE ARE THOSE PEARLS? YOU SPENT  11-7 Morrissey. Lewis asks: 1)How do you know about fags? 2)What's a watch got do with fagdom? yy3yy Why does Carl wear a watch?l P.S. Hi BUCKY!  
and It's my only transportation; Any info, CALL JOE No questions asked :zn-38n •coupon .... coupon .... coupol'll Holiday Special  I WANTED I RIDE NEEDED: Need ride to Upstate  ? A. Rhesus Pieces 2. Okay you A-Team fans, what do you.........~.~-~=·~·~-~-~.~ .......... call B.A.'slymphocytes ? OAR HOUSE: COLD. BEER & UQUOR, A. Mr. TCells CARRY OUT 'nL3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE 3. What do you call the immune cells of a  THE DAY APOLOGIZII\IG, BUT HE STILL DIDN'T SHARE HIS OOOBIE. HOWBA BOUTBA FATBA , ALBERT? WHAT WOULD YOUR MOM SAY COM­ING HOME IN A NIGHTIE AND KENNY'S JACKET? THE GANG AT KNIGHT'S INN  BOB SPINELLI -YOU WATCHED Happy Birthday Tad! The Ken Munro Doctrine  ARE  BEING  
New York ( Syracuse or Albany area ) can  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  prostitute ?  STILL LOVES YOU  
50s! off  leave Wednesday December 19 at noon. Call Brendan at 2275. Need ride to New Orieans for CHristmas Break. Can leave anytime after Decem­ber 20. Cell Paul COLLECT at (312)388­ SENIORS, SENIORS: HAND IN PROFILES FOR INVITA nONAL INTER­VIEWS FROM JAN. 28-FEB. 15 DURING WEEK OF DEC. 3. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES.  A. Nymphocytes 4. EXTRA GREOIT: Okay Biolab TA's, What sound does a light saber make ? A."RaoReo"  I GOT A JOB! EVERYONE SMART ENOUGH TO GO TO CAREER DAY CAN THANK SUE EISENHAUER FOR ALL HER HARD WORK!  It is my honored duty to protect and defend all the women of y.talsh Hall with all my heart and soul so that not one hair of my beloved Juliet's head will be harmed.  
Send a Christmas  6458.  WATCH OUT, WORLD I The Mild Accor­ Give the bast gilt of all -yourself, in a  The honors program does chicago LAR· NEY, MIKE & JIM: SCOPING WITH  Petunia, Having a good time. Took plane  
personal to a good  WANTED :Garage space for rent dose to  dlonl.t turns 20 todllyllf you're Slavic  Glamour Portrait or set of Glamour Mini­ SCOPE TO GET FRESH WITH THE  to Behamas yesterday and living it up with  
friend.  campus. Call J.A. 2012  and female, give FRANK VIDERGAR a call todlly (3321). He may not -r  atures. Photography by Joe Ringer. 287· 0613.  FROSH? BRUCE: GREATEST AMERI­CAN GIGALO SPECIALTY: OLDER  cheap wine, sleazy women and reggae. Talk to you later. P S. My kneecaps  
Just  bring  in  this  KAREN roll th.t tummy THE TURKEYS!  501'a, but haiUra knowa how to finger th-buttonel  CLEVELAND CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS Sign-ups on WED, DEC 5 and THURS.  WOMEN AND FURS NYLCE: "BRUCE COULD CHARM THE PANTS OFF.. .'' JEANNE: DID YOU GET FOOD? DID  healedl LOGAN  SUPERCAT VOLUNTEERS: There I•  a  
coupon and receive 50 cents off your next classified ad order.  WANTED: CHEAP TRANSPORT 2361 ·  COUCH,  WE'LL  YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUl BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD Whatever happened lo Terry Jacks?  DEC 6 from 6:00 -7:30pm in LaFortune. $30.00 Round Trip. Bus leaves on Dec 19 and returns on Jan 14.  YOU GET ANYTHING?! AIMEE & TREY: INCEST IS BEST MICHELLE: HOW MANY LESSONS ON JUXTAPOSITION OF BODIES CAN YOU GIVE GIVE ON A  danca on FRIDAY from 7:30 to 10 pm •nd CHRISTMAS REC S.turday. Come •nd wteh the klda a MERRY CHRISTMAS 1111  
One coupon per order (order includes total days ad is to run).  HELP WANTED: PART-nilE SPORTS WRITER TO WORK FRI. MGHTS A SOME TUESDAY NIGHTS COVERING HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS. SEND LET·  Whatever happened to Brett Somers? Santa can't deliver my presents to Notre  Interested in galling involved with The Observer, as well as learning to edit? The Accant department is currently ac· cepting applications for F..tur• Copy  BUS? Q: Why aren't there any knives at North anymore?  ATTENnON SUPERCAT KIDNAP· PERS ESf'ECIALL Y LASER MAN, JOCK, OTHER INTERESTED VERMIN  
Hurry!  Offer  expires  TER  AND  CLIPS  TO  MATT  BEAL,  Dame 80 I NEED A RIDE TO NEW JER·  Editor, a paid position. If interested, con­ A: Because they all went (to) South for the  AND  SO-CALLED  FRIENDS--THE  
IDecember 12, 1984.  SPORTS EDITOR, THE DAILY STAR, 217 N. 4TH ST., NILES, 11141120.  SEY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. If you can give mea ride can Sereh .t1333.  tact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313.  winter!  SCHWERHA REVENOEIII  SHALL  HAVE  HER  
coupon .... coupon .... coupon.  


The Observer 
Thursday, December 6, 1984-page 9 

Argues that its game is for national championship 

Orange Bowl says BYU isn't No. 1 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Regardless of what The Associated Press college foot­ball poll says -and it currently says that Brigham Young is No. 1-the Or­ange Bowl is trumpeting the clash between No. 2 Oklahoma and fourth-ranked Washington on New Year's Night as a national champion­ship game. 
"Brigham Young hasn't played a representative schedule. Their op­ponents as a group have a losing record. How can a team like that be the national champion?" Nick Crane, chairman ofthe Orange Bowl's team selection committee, said yesterday. "In our opinion, and in the opinion of a lot of others, they shouldn't be ranked No. l." 
"We're saying it's for the national championship and we hope every­one else does, too," said Bob Laf­ferty, president ofthe Orange Bowl. 
Crane, five other Orange Bowl representatives and coaches Barry Switzer ofOklahoma and Don James of Washington have not been as out­spoken as the Orange Bowl commit­tee. But they made no secret of the fact that they are rooting for Mic­higan to defeat BYU in the Holiday Bowl on Dec. 21. 


Aloha Bowl Tickets 
on sale today through Friday at ACC ticket office from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. each day One ticket per I D, up to four I D's 
Cost: $15 per ticket 
"I'm not prepared to say BYU is not a good football team," James said. "I've been low-profiling the No. 1 thing because we play them the next two years. But I'm saying 'Go Blue' (Michigan's war cry) every night in my prayers. I certainly hope the Orange Bowl is for the national championship." 
For the record, BYU's 12 oppo­nents (the Cougars are 12-0) had a combined record of 54-79-3. But Oklahoma's (9-1-1) were 52-63-6 and Washington's ( 10-1) were 55­66-0. At the time of their respective games, BYU's opponents were 25­37-1, Oklahoma's 30-27-1, Washing­ton's 29-25-0. 
BYU and Oklahoma played two common opponents -BYU defeated Pitt, 20-14, and Baylor, 47-13; Okla­homa beat Pitt, 42-10, and Baylor, 34-15 -while Oklahoma and Wash­ington both defeated Stanford, Okla­homa winning, 19-7, Washington, 37-15. 
James conceded that "Oklahoma has played a much tougher schedule than we have," while Switzer said that "Michigan is a good team and if Brigham Young bears them soundly, they'll deserve to be national cham­pions. But if it (the Holiday Bowl) is a close game, our two teams have a legitimate chance for the national championship." 



Women swimmers lose 
The Notre Dame women's swim­ming team set four meet records before losing to Bowling Green, 81­59, yesterday afternoon at the Rockne Memorial Pool. The close, hard-fought contest was decided by the last two events of the day. 
"Ifwe would have placed first and third in the 200-yard individual medley, the score would have been much closer," said Irish coach Den­nis Stark. 
Stark was very pleased by the four meet records set. The 400-yard medley relay team set a new record by swimming to first place in 4:13.1. Suzanne Devine recorded a 2:12.88 

Hope 
continuedfrom page I 2 
led the team in rebounding. Defensively, Wood cited Bir and sophomore forward Lorri White for their fine play. 
Tomorrow the Belles travel to In­dianapolis, Ind., where they will take 
IAMERICAN <gCANCERfSOCIETY~ 
in the 200-yard butterfly, Julie Boss 
swam a 25.66 in the 50-yard 
freestyle and Amy Darlington 
finished the 1 00-yard freestyle in 
55.66, as all three placed first and set 
individual event meet records. 
"Last year, Bowling Green blew us 
out. This year, I think we suprised 
them with very competitive perfor­
mances," Stark said. "I am looking 
for accelerated improvement from 
the team over the upcoming meets." 
The women go to Cleveland State for a Saturday morning meet, before traveling to Valparaiso next Tues­day. 
part in the IUPUI tournament. Saint 
Mary's is scheduled for a 6 p.m. 
matchup with the Lady Titans of 
Marion College of Marion, Ind., who 
finished with a 15-9 record last year. 
Under the direction of a new coach, 
Marion features six returning letter­
men and should give the Belles a 
tough fight. 
Host Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis will then take on Franklin College in the second game of the night. The win­ner of that game will advance to the championship game to be played on SaturdaY, which will be preceeded by a consolation game. 
Should both Saint Mary's and Franklin survive the opening round of play, the Belles would get a chance to even the score from a week ago, .when they lost to Franklin, 83-67. 



COMPUTER MAJORS 
I 


WOULD RATHER BYTE INTO DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
$1 00 off any pizza


$1.00 
One coupon per p1zza 
Off 
Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave 

The Observer · Thursday, December 6, 1984 -page 10 
Remembers 0-5 
Wyche enjoys success of Bengals 

Associated Press 

CINCINNA 11-Coach Sam Wyche, whose Cincinnati Bengals went 0-5 to open the season before improving to their current 6-8 record, says he isn't sure exactly when the team jelled, but he is enjoying it nonethe­less. 
"Early in the year, we were giving up some big plays. Our offense was moving the ball, statistically a little better than we are right now," Wyche said. "Then there was a point in the middle ofthe season when our offense wasn't getting as many yards and certainly not as many points, but our defense was playing tremen­dously. 
"Now, all of a sudden, we put to­gether an offense, a defense and the special teams come in and decide a game for us," he said. "Our offense kept us alive, our defense kept us in the game and then it came down to blocking a punt and kicking a field goal." 
Wyche referred to the Bengals' 20-1 7 comeback victory in overtime Sunday over the Browns at Cleveland. The triumph kept alive Cincinnati's hopes of making the 


Schroeder sees ND-IU 
Associated Press 

LOUISVIllE, Ky. -Being confined to intensive care doesn't inhibit artificial-heart recipient William J. Schroeder from cheering his beloved Indiana University basketball team. 
But doctors spared him the ending of the Hoosiers' 74-63loss to Notre Dame, perhaps fearing it would be too much for his plastic and metal heart to take. 
A television crew covering Schroeder's surgery and recovery pro­vided a videotape of Tuesday night's game. Schroeder, from Jasper, Ind., watched part of it yesterday in his room at Humana Hospital Audubon's coronary-care unit, said Dr. Allan Lansing. 
"We haven't shown him the end yet," Lansing_ joked with reporters. "We let him see it at a time when (the Hoosiers) were still playing well That was enough exercise for his heart." 
Abdui-Jabbar signs to play an additional year with L.A. 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the all-time leading scorer in National Basketball Association history, revised his re­tirement plans yesterday as he agreed to a one-year, $2 million con­tract with the Los Angeles Lakers for the 1985-86 season. 
"The Lakers made a very good of­fer and I feel I still have another good year to give. That being the situa­tion, I decided to go for it," Abdul­Jabbar said before the start of the Lakers' game against the New Jersey Nets here. 
The All-Star center suggested ear­lier this year that he would not return for a 17th season. But the 7-4 player said Lakers General Manager Jerry West asked him to reconsider. 
"There never has been a doubt that we would pay Kareem S2 mil­lion to play one more year," Dr.Jerry 
Buss, Lakers owner said in a state­ment released at the news confer­ence. 
Abdul-jabbar's contract could make him the second highest paid player in the league behind Moses Malone of the Philadelphia 76ers, who has a reported $13 million con­tract over six years. 
***************** 
iC -tc  MJAMI JE\VB..RY  '-tc -tc  
:  I906Miami·&.  :  
:  TOPPRICE  :  
: iC iCiC  RINGS*DIAMONDSGOLD*SILVERWATCHES  : iC iCiC  
:  Buy -Sell ­Exchange  :  
iC  OPEN MONDAY· SATURDAY 9 ­6  iC  
:  289-6440  t  

*****~*********** 



·"CJ'Qowehg {ph aQQ oc(:ogio~~, · 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232-3354 





DARBY'S 
for late night munchies... 
Rt,N=lJ~ 
Q r I' L <1-'11 
-~~­
__ \:__)-....... 


-.......iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii in the basement of Lafortune 
playoffs in the weak AFC Central division, which 7-7 Pittsburgh leads by a game over the Bengals with two regular-season games remaining. 
The Bengals must win the division in order to make the playoffs. They have an ace in the hole if they tie with Pittsburgh: the Bengals would be judged the division champions, since they have a better divisional record than the Steelers. 
The Bengals finish with games _ against the 6-8 Saints in New Orleans on Sunday and at home against the 2-12 Buffalo Bills. Pittsburgh plays the 4-10 Cleveland Browns at home Sunday, then finishes the regular season at Los Angeles against the 10­
NHL 



Standings 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE Adllma Dlvlalon 
w  L  T  GF  GA Pta.  
Montreal  15  6  4  99  n  34  
Quebec  12  11  2  97  97  26  
Boston  11  1t  3  91  82  25  
Buffalo  9  11  5  91  87  23  
Hartford  9  t3  3  82  111  21  

P81rlck Dlvlelon 
Philadelphia 
N.Y. 
Islanders Washington 

N.Y. 
Rangers Pittsburgh New Jersey 


16 4 4 109 61 36 15 9 1 127 107 31 12 8 5 99 79 29 9 12 3 89 104 21 7 14 3 84 112 17 7 14 2 72 96 16 
Holiday Specials 
from Humble Bob and His Helpers 
Prices Good Thru Dec. 8, 1984 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Edmonton Calgary Los Angeles Winnipeg Vancouver 
Chicago St. Louis Minnesota Detroit Toronto 
Yeeterdlly'a Aeauhe Boston 3, Buffalo 3 tie Hartford 5. Montreal 3 Calgary4, N.Y. Rangers4tie Pittsburgh 7, St. Louis 4 Detroit4, Toronto2 Los Angeles 5, Chicago 5 tie Edmonton 6, N.Y. Islanders 4 
.~:~
z· CASE 24 CANS 
569 
IIUI 
BUDWEISER 'II Barrel Ke&
3299 
HAMM'S 'lllarrel Kel
2799 

Smythe Dvlelon w L T GF GA Pta 19 3 3 132 75 41 15 9 2 t31 10t 32 12 9 5 115 97 12 9 3 102 92 27 
4 21 2 83 t63 
Norrie Dlvlelon 12 11 3 107 98 12 10 2 97 90 
8 t1 6 90103 8 t4 3 97 117 4 t8 4 80 125 


JAMESON GLENFIDDICH 
750 ML. 750 ML. 
GIFT CAN 
899 
1699 
KINGS CELLAR ~ ' 
LO~~~~~ERT L...-7-5~-~~-'-----1 L09R~~9~9VERT
499 -~ 399 
' 
j ZDNIN nm. ,., o

~~ru.n. f{/'1 
750MI. . _,
ASTI SPUMANTE
Q750ML. 
750ML. 
5" 
199 ~ 
GRAND 
7SOMl.1 0" ODMAINE CHANDDN '-' 
-
SORIA ASTI SPUMANTEBURATI 
750ML. 
ASTI SPUMANTE 
299 
750ML. 
419 
254 OIXIEWAY NORTH 1910 LINCOLNWAY EAST 1621 SO. BEND AYE. ROSELAND SO. BEND SO BEND 272-2522 233-8430 233·4603 

Hamms 1hbbl 
Budweiser 
Quart 
WE ACCEPT CHECKS WITH NOTRE DAME ID 
KINGS CELLAR VODKA 
750ML. 
399 
CALVEIT GIN 
1.75L. 
999 
CORDIALS 
LJ 

200 N. MAIN ELKHART 295-6310 
Silver Thunder Malt Liquor 
LP 

PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE. STORE ONLY 



~t(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------Th--u.rs_d_a_y_,n
__ec_e_m__b.er_6_J,_1_9_8_4___P_a_g_e_l__l 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
CMON. PfOPtt, I'MTWJfoK.i'KJJ, 
TilE ISSUE IS 
Y&AH, /A/HAT M!N/J !PI GO
TH/515 'jiLL.. TH!N65

GIVC /J5 A CALL' 5/UEtT PM, 
THEWIOTI 
CHANNCL. 15 FOR. A PIZZA
RECa/5/f)tRE/)'?

GeT INWXVEP' IT f)(£P THINK 
15 IT (}(JT CF 
"MR. CIJ"ON? IA/JIILE YOU
'/()(J'R/3CW me.

IJtATr;srtT!N6 UP JUST «JN'T 
(1JVT1?{){..'? I£T 
I CANT F!N/J BtJIW AN
mTCHIMS W?JJNS MAl<£ ITAT 
Al!?.!j 

fT. ~ AU/Jif"CE -z
ME (NOW' eRRING/
\ CF"MIUP"I 7HI5HaJRJ 
\ 
~~,S~J1/ 

Tank McNamara Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 





Bloom County Berke Breathed 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 37 Manager 63 Tracking 12 Gold measure 1 Slight 38 Western Indians device 13 Edle ofsong 5 Nuclear weapon 39 Oratorio melody 64 Editor's note 21 Algerian port 
10 Biblical ' 40 Roman bronze 23 Notion expletive 26 Country near 14 Paragon 41 "Norma" or Fla.
DOWN

15 Actress Shire "Louise" 27 Indian
1 G.B. or Irwin 42 Germ 2 Son of Jacob43 Diving failure 

16 lnst. of 28 Disorder
45 Singing Brewer 
learning 29 Badgerllke
48 Land measure 3 Horseor
17 Bard's river animal
curtain

18 Ape 30 Eared seal 
4 Fairy tale 

19 Mrs. Charles 49 Indubitable 31 Exclamation
creatures

20 Charming 51 Diplomatic of disgust
5 Extremely22 Bon mot officer small24 Numerical 55 Coin of Iran 6 Unfurnished

prefix 56 Ledger entry 34 Let fall 58 Emulate Elsa 35 Br. river 59 Pro-36 Max or Buddy
25 Dog tags for 7 Wave: Sp. 
38 One from the 

short 8 UMWword 26 Fall completely 60 Baffle 9 Highland 
high country 39 Looked32 Reversal 61 Emerald Isle Instruments 1 41 Bacterlolo·33 Cruising 62 Hindu land 10 Warden gist's wire 34 Pinch grant 11 Future oak 42 Grade 51 Radames' 43 Confusion love • 44 Mad-52 Apple center 45 Earth: Fr. 53 Salute 46 Fr. resort 54 Plsclvorous 47 Lariat bird 50 Honduras port 57 Baby flower 

Wednesday's Solution s N u 81 AM 0 s TIc ApT
H 0 S E L E P T A A L 0 E A R I Z S N E E R S E E N 
L I NEliiYOURPOC-KETS 
E A G L E A S -;,-Tr.;A'f"!"'''!"'''!' •••TOP SCALP A S E A R A T A•r I A R A 
B U R N YIO U R B R~l 0 G E S AM IN O·~~~yliA~S·P·S
L Y
~UT YEW~ 

..........T H I S A S H E S F E A TIH E R y 0 u IR N E s T
A X L E B A N N S A R T Y R A G E A N 0 0 E R E E L 

Campus 
•4 
p.m. · Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Photophysical Behavior of Pyrene at the Air· Water Interface," Dr. R. Subramanian, ND, Confer· ence Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. 

•4 
· 6 p.m. · Kellogg lnsdtute PubUc Lecture , "Development Strategies in Latin America and East Asia," Prof. Gary Gereffi, Duke University, Room 131 Declo Hall. 

•5 
p.m.. Pizza Party, Little Brother/Uttle Sister Program, Show Biz Pizza· Town & Country, S3.2'5 .• 

•5 
· 10:30 pm. ·Sale ofGift Items, Sponsored by St. Francis Shoppe, Memorial Library Lounge. 

•5:30 
& 7:30p.m. -lnformadonal Meedng, For Study at The American University in Cairo, Egypt, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Foreign Studies Program. 

•7 
p.m. · General Meedng, Finance Club, 223 Hayes Healy. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m. · FUm, "Star Wars," Engi· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board, St.'50. 

•
7 p.m. · Thursday Night FUm Series, "Ail The King's Men," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Meedng, "Stop Henry Kissinger's Genocide," LaFortune Theatre, Sponsored by Club of Life, Free. 

•8 
p.m. · ND/SMC Theatre, "The Dramatist," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Also Friday & Saturday, Sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre, 52.50. 

•9 
p.m. · 1 a.m. · Senior Cocktall Party, Semi· Formal, ACC Monogram Room, Sponsored by Senior Class, 53. 

•9:30 
p.m. -Movie, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free. 




TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  Bill Cosby Show  
22  Magnum, PI  
28  Movie · Kramer vs. Kramer  
34  34 Front  
8:30p.m.  16  jump  
9:00p.m.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon & Simon  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Night Court  
lO:OOp.m.  16  Hlll Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Masterpiece Theatre  
11:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswiuch 28  
34  Movie  


©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc.

0 M A N T I 0 E S E S S E 
All Rights Reserved 12/6/84 

THIS WEEKEND

WWII Specials 
A long time cq:;
Pearl Harbors $1.05

THURSDAY • in ogalaxYftJ;~ CJ-.NC!f... 
Kamikaze 95c ,: I 7:00
_:r;~r ,6­

FRIDAY 25~ BEERS ~ . . 9:15 ~~ 11:30 Coming Up ... New Year's Eve Rehearsal Party Eng.Aud. 7:00 9:15 11:30 Engineering Auditorium 
Free Champagne at Midnight $1.50 
Thursday, December 6, 1984 -page 12



S~orts 
ND women's basketball team routs Western Michigan behind Bates' 19 
By CHUCK FREEBY as Western Michigan held on to a 7-6 The Irish finished the job early in Sports Writer advantage. the second half, tightening the lasso The easy misses didn't bother DiS­around the Broncos with six un­It was just like the rodeo at the tanislao, though. answered points to open the period. Athletic & Convocation Center last "I wasn't worried at that point be­Keys opened the halfwith a baseline night, as the Notre Dame women's cause we were getting the good jumper, before Bates scored two of basketball team played the role of shots," recalled DiStanislao. "When her team-high 19 points off a quick Bronco busters. you're getting layups and good pass from freshman forward Sandy 
The Irish had little trouble in inside shots at the basket, sooner or Botham. Botham then converted a roping their second victory of the later they are going to fall." rebound goal at 17:27 to make it 47­year by busting the Broncos ofWest­Indeed, those shots did start to fall 27. Hess came off the bench with an ern Michigan, 76-46, before a sparse when the Irish bench came to the unprintable expletive and called a crowd of 160 spectators under the rescue just like the cavalry would. timeout, but the damage had been south dome. Coach Mary DiStanis­Senior co-captain Mary Beth done. lao's Irish now stand at 2-3, while Schueth came in at the 14: 14 mark "I was really pleased with the fact Western Michigan fell to 1-3. and wasted little time in hitting a that we didn't let up in the second 
layup to put the Irish on top. Bronco half," said DiStanislao. "Basketball is 
You would expect a game be­
guard Tracy Wells answered by a battle of wills, and if you are 
tween two clubs with losing records 
driving the length of the court to prepared to win, you will come out
wouldn't be very exciting, and this 
collect two of her 12 points and put on top. We were prepared in the 
game lived up to expectations but 
the Broncos back in front, 9-8. second half."

for all the wrong reasons. The Irish 
Notre Dame put itself in the 

Western Michigan quite obvi­saddle at that point with eight
took control of the game midway 
ously was not ready for the assault. straightpoints to take a lead it wouldthrough the first half and never 
looked back, much to the pleasure of Not onJy did the Broncos know the DiStanislao. meaning of the word quit, they
never relinquish. Trena Keys broke a string ofsix straight misses from the 

defined it quite well in the later "For the first time this year, you field with a 12-foot jumper from the stages of the game as their play saw a team out on the floor," right ba.'>eline to ignite the spurt. 
started to get rather ragged. The remarked DiStanislao of her team's Laura Dougherty then came off the most blatant example came with play. "They are pushing each other bench to sink a pair of mid-range 2: 19 left, when an obviously to be the best they can be right now. jumpers, before Carrie Bates frustrated forward Vicky Musky 
They haven't reached that level yet, pumped in a turnaround jumper to committed her fifth foul intention­but they are on the road to doing it run the score to 16-9 with 10:13 to ally and ran directly to her towel on now." go in the half. 
the bench before the official even The teams traded baskets for the
That road was bumpy early in the had a chance to get to the scorer's 
game, as the Irish had problems get­next three minutes before Notre table. ting their feet in the stirrups. Several Dame put together another streak of missed layups and some sloppy ex­eight straight points, thanks to 
Musky had good reason to be frustrated, despite scoring a game­
ecution in the opening minutes kept Dougherty. The highlight film began high 21 points. The Broncos' fran­
Notre Dame from opening up a lead, at 7:48 when Dougherty hit a layup off a nice feed from Keys to make it 
chise player committed seven of 22-15. The 5·1 0 senior co-captain 
Western Michigan's 25 turnovers then fed Bates with a bounce pass for 
against a sticky Irish defense, and she another layup, before nailing a 15­
was worn down by working in a full­court press which was ineffectivefooter from the left corner to run the count to 26-I 5. 


Belles fall to Hope College, 77-68 
against the quicker Irish. By KELLY PORTOLESE guard Kris Pantelleria, also were win in four attempts. Saint Mary's 
That brought fiery Bronco coach Meanwhile, the Irish celebrated

Sports Writer sidelined with injuries received falls to 1-4. 
Jim Hess from the bench asking for a by giving everybody to

over the weekend at the Goshen "We put forth a super effort," said a chance 
timeout. This did little to slow Doug­play, and a pair of Notre Dame sub­The Saint Mary's basketball team College tournament. Saint Mary's coach Marvin Wood. 

herty, who came back to find stitutes responded with fine perfor­fought back from an IS-point deficit Hope took charge in the first half "Hope just had good outside shoot­Schueth open on the low post for an mances. Sophomore Mickey

in the second half to pull within six and built up a 42-28 halftime advan­ing and superior rebounding." 
easy jumper. By that time, it became Skieresz collected four points and

points, but it was not enough as the tage. Early in the second half, the With three starters nursing injur­clear that the rout was on, as the six rebounds in onJy three minutesBelles fell to the Flying Dutchmen of Flying Dutchmen soared to a com­ies, the depth of this young squad is Irish coasted to a 41-27 halftime ofplaying time, while freshman cen­Hope College, 77-68, in NAIA Con­manding 48-30 lead. paying off. All 1 0 remaining players lead. 
ter Beth Morrison celebrated herference action Tuesday night. Just when it looked as if Hope saw action Tuesday night and con­Needless to say, DiStanislao was first action
Although the Belles have carried a would put the game completely out tinued to gain valuable experience varsity with two 
pleased with the play of her bench, rebounds and a layup with 20

"never say die" attitude into each of reach, the Belles tightened their as a result. 
particularlySchueth and Dougherty. 
seconds left.

game during the young season, luck defense and rallied to outscore their Freshman guard Tammye Radke "People have to get theirhas not been on their side. Just five opponents 16-4, which sliced the led the Belles offensively with a 20­priorities in line on this club, and "We cut our turnovers down tominutes into the game, senior for­margin to 52-46 with eight minutes point effort, while junior forward we're starting to do that," noted the 17 tonight, which isn't good, but stillward Elaine Seuss suffered a cut lip left on the clock. Beth Kreher and freshman forward Irish mentor. "One of the benefits of is fewer than whatwe've had," notedwhich required seven stitches and A Hope timeout and an adjusted Rachel Bir chipped in with 1 0 points being a senior is having four years of DiStanislao, who now must preparekept her out for the remainder ofthe defense allowed the host team to apiece. 
experience and being exposed to a her squad for a 2 p.m. clash withcontest. Two other starters, senior regain the momentum which would Kreher and freshman forward variety of situations. These seniors Georgetown Saturday at the ACC.
center Betsy Ebert and sophomore carry it to the triumph and its third Donna Wolf, who had four baskets, 
have good leadership and they will "Plus, we dominated the boards see HOPE, page 9 get the job done." with a 4 3·28 advantage."
Men's swimming team loses to Bowling Green 
By MIKE SZ¥MANSK1 ln other events, Paul Benz Sports Writer clocked a 2:04.05 in the 200-yard backstroke to take second, Chris Despite losing to Bowling Green, Green swam a 2:04.88 in the 200­71-41, last night at the Rockne yard individual medley, which also Memorial Pool, the Notre Dame was good for second place, andJohn men's swimming team showed Koselka finished third in the 50-yard marked improvement for this eacly freestyle with a time of 22.99 Fresh­in the season, according to Coach manJim Dowd swam his fastest race Dennis Stark. of the season in the 1 00-yard 
"We are still looking for the right freestyle, comingin at 50.19 to place combinations," said Stark. It is hard third. to project how the season will prog­Co-captain Tim Bohdan recorded ress. Practice times are not always a solid performance in the 1 000­the answer. Performances count the yard freestyle, swimming the dis­most in competition. We have im­tance in 10:09.69 for second place. proved times and effort, and we are· "It is tough to swim against moving in the positive direction." scholarship teams (as Bowling 
In the 200-yard fly, co-captain Green is) which have three double Brian Casey swam to first place in winners," said Bohdan. "We had 
1:59.55. The Irish dominated the some good swims for early in the one-and three-meter diving events season, but we will have to improve as Mike Kennedy and Rick Yohon our times to compete with placed first and second, Cleveland State this weekend." respectively, in both events. "I see Notre Dame travels to the Ohio The Notre Dame men's swimming team lost to improvementin diving with Rick be­school for a Saturday afternoon Bowling Green, 71-41, last night at the Rockne coming stronger," Stark said. meet. Memorial Pool.lrisb coach Dennis Stark feels that 

The Obscrvcr/)ollannco Hacker 

Carrie Bates had a team-high 19 points•last night as the Notre Dame women's basketball team routed the Broncos of Western Michigan, 76-46, at the ACC. Chuck Freeby details the game at right. 
Missing three starters 







