Doonesbury -page 11 
1 
1 1 
VOl. XIX, NO. 27 MONDAY, OCTOBER l, 1984 
l

Shultz terms talks sober and intense 
Associated Press  nels and that such contacts would  
make it possible to negotiate solu- 
WASHINGTON ­ Secretary ofState tions to some problems.  

George Shultz said yesterday that the oppQrtunity for holding produc­tive negotiations with Moscow has been improved, but he declined to characterize last week's talks be­tween President Reagan and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko as "very positive." 
"Not very positive -sober and in­tense," is the way Shultz said he would describe the Reagan­Gromyko meeting, as well as two separate sessions he held with Gromyko. 
In an appearance on ABC-TV's "This Week with David Brinkley," Shultz said that as a result of the nearly nine hours of talks, "the chances of a more constructive dialogue with the Soviet Union ... 
The Observer /Thorn Bradlcy are reasonably good."
Give a hoot,don't pollute 
He said the two sides agreed "to No section of the Notre Dame campus was campus Saturday night. The paper was draped keep in touch, carefully and syste­immune ,from the toilet paper that was strewn on over both quads. matically" through diplomatic chan-
In another televised interview Sunday, Robert McFarlane, the presi­dent's national security adviser, said it would probably take a couple: of months for the Soviets to decide their response to Reagan's proposals for regular high contacts focusing on arms control and other issues. 
"The Soviet process is a very deliberate one, and they've had a lot to chew on after this week, so it will take some time," McFarlane said on CBS' "Face the Nation." 
Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, questioned on the same program, said serious negotiations probably could begin late this year or sometime next year. 
"For them to turn their machinery around is usually a rather laborious process," said Kissinger, a prime ar­chitect of detente with the Soviet 
See SOVIETS page 3 

Abortion clinics target of fires and bombs, 19 attacks so far 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -In a presidential elec­tion year marked by an emotional debate on abortion, abortion clinics around the country increasingly are heing bomhed and set afire in the nighI. 
The National Ahortion Federation 
reports 19 attacks or attempted at­
tacks on abortion clinics or preg­
nancy counseling centers so far this 
year, compared with four last year 
and three in 1982. 
Several abortion rights activists havt· blamed anti-abortionists for stirring up an atmosphere of hate, and one predicts "a religious war" if But the bureau, he said, has "yet to the attack.~ aren't stopped. uncover any evidence to indicate a 
Leading ami-abortionists, national conspiracy." however, deny any involvement in The bureau is investigating at­the violence and say it's hurting, not tacks in Virginia, Maryland, Dela­helping, their crusade. ware, Florida, Georgia and California 
Police say some of the attacks ap­and at the National Abortion Federa­pear to be connected. On Sept. 7, tion's offices in Washington, Troy two Houston clinics were said. firebombed. The next day, arsonists "It's dear to me," said Federation attempted to set fire to a third Executive Director Barbara Radford, facility there. "that people (responsible for the at­
"In Houston -any investigator tacks) are speaking to each other would say it sounds like the same and there's some kind of organized person" or else quite a coincidence, planning going on... Whether there's said David Troy, a top arson inves­a conspiracy or not, I don't know for tigator with the Bureau of Alcohol, sure. I don't know who's doing it." Tobacco and Firearms. The bureau has "literally 

Notre Dame pre-meds score higher than national average on MCATs 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
News Staff 
Approximately .200 Notre Dame students, representing each of the various pre-professional programs here. took the Medical College Ad­missions Tests a week ago Saturday In the Engineering Auditorium. The results from tests in past years have shown that Notre Dame students consistently score higher than the national average:. 
The tests are comprised ofsix sec· tions each of which is scored from zero to fiftc:cn. The national average for t·ach st•ction is eight. However, the prt·-mc:d stu~ents here have avc:ragc:d around ten per section, placing them in the seventy·ftfth pc:rn·ntilc: nationwide. 
Fr. Joseph Walter, tht' Chairman of Pre·professional Studies for over thirteen years, credited a "structured curriculum' as one ofthe primary reasons for the success of Notre Dame's pre-meds. Notre D41me supports a separate depart­ment of pre-professional studies. 
There are very few other schools which have specific departments dedicated to getting their students accepted into med-schools. 
Notre Dame boasts an acceptance rate near 80/ annually. This high number is in sharp contrast to the national average of 45/. 
"Med-schools respect the tradi­tion of one hundred years of Notre Dame pre-meds. They have been pleased with our students in the past. lhat certainly improves one's chances for getting accepted,' said Walter. 
"In private mcd·schools, it is slightly easier to get in if the appli­cant is the son or daughter of an alumnus of that particular school. How-ever, that is not the case in state schools so it just shows that a high GPA and good MCAT scores arc the most important factors. It all boils down to hard work and the desire to get into a med-school.' 
Notre Dame graduates have been accepted at schools all over the na­tion. Currently, Notre Dame has stu­dents enrolled in seventy-five of the 125 med-schools in the country, in­cluding the prestigious University of Chicago and johns-Hopkins. 
The number of applicants has dropped over the last decade. Around 1973-74 there were as many as 50,000 students applying to med­schools. Today there are only 36,000 applicants annually. This drastic decrease has been coupled with an increase in the number of places available for first-year med­school students. 
"That is just typical of the cyclic nature of applying to mcd-schools,' said Walter. 
To insure comparable success in the future, Walter said, "We will continue to provide a well-rounded education for our students. We are doing as well as anybody. If there were changes to be made, I'd make them but our structured curriculum is very sound. Until changes are nec­essary, we will continue to combine classes in the humanities and theo­logy in addition to the proper sci­ence courses. 
hundreds of agents" investigating the attacks, said Troy, special agent in charge of its arson enforcement branch in Washington. "This carries the absolute highest priority, not just because it's abortion clinic bom­bings, but because explosives and arson incidents are A TF's highest in­vestigative priority." 
Two months ago, a man was ar­rested and charged with four counts of arson in connection with attacks on clinics in the Seattle area, Troy said. Other cases are still under in­vestigation, he said, emphasizing that firebombings are "very difficult to solve." 
Bill Baird, who claims that the New York abortion clinic he opened in 1963 was the nation's first, says pro-choice forces are being duped by election-year politics. 
"They've been suckered without realizing that this (investigation) is happening two months before the election," Baird said, charging that A TF has done little. If Catholic churches were attacked in such numbers, he said, there would be an uproar. 
Baird, an outspoken advocate of abortion rights, charges that anti­abortion rhetoric Is partly to blame for this year's spate ofattack.~. 
He said he blamed President Reagan, New York Roman Catholic Archbishop John j. O'Connor and Moral Majority founderJerry Falwell for "deliberately using the rhetoric of hatred that turns loose emotional cripples to commit the acts of vio­lence that they do." 
New York Planned Parenthood chiefAlfred Moran held a press con­ference Friday at which he criticized Reagan for talking "about murder and killing." For O'Connor "to take the position that American women who are having abortions are com­parable to the people who per­petrated the Holocaust is frightening," he said. "And I think It's irresponsible." 
O'Connor has compared abortion 
see ABORTION page 4 


Phone-a-thon raises more than $65,000 
By K.IMBERL Y TRENNER 
News Staff 
Thirty-nine volunteer callers working on the Saint Mary's mini phon­a-thon brought in 565,440 which will be placed in an unrestricted fund for the operation of the college. 
The phon-a-thon, held Sept. 23, 24, and 25, "turned out to be a suc­cess and was received well by all," according to Julie Strazzabosco, or­ganizer of the phon-a-thon and vice president for academic affairs. • 
The event, which was part ofCollege presidentJohn Duggan's 'excell campaign'. This phon·a-thon was a smaller scale version of the larger annual event held in the spring. 
Strazzabosco said 39 volunteer callers handled the phone-a-thon placing 513 calls and recieving 328 pledges. The average pledge wa.o; for $199.51, with the largest pledge for Sl,500, from the Made leva Society. 
Strazzabosco said, "lbose whom were called seemed very enthusia.~­tic about the event, many of whom hadn't heard from the St. Mary's community for years and were glad to hear from us... lbe volunteer callers were also pleased, and are looking forward to working the big one in March." 

-------~ 

The Observer Monday, October 1, 1984-page 2 
r 


In Brief : 
ADekalb, m., cityalderwomancame under 
intense fire from Northern Illinois University supporters after she commented that with students back in town, "everything was back to normal ·unfortunately." -The Observer 
The SQUirrel is Safe, but Edward Beach, 29, was treated for back pain and released from Memorial Hospital after a one-car accident. County Police said Beach was northbound on Beech Road near Third Street in Osceola at approximately 5:30p.m. when he reportedly swerved to avoid running over the squirrel. His car left the road, traveled down into a ditch and came to rest against a tree. -The Observer 
A man wearing panty hose, brassiere, WO· 
men's boots, a blouse and sweater was killed in Cleveland by a train while tied to the railroad tracks in what might have been a prank gone awry, police said. A set ofkeys but no identification was found on the man's body, which was discovered late Friday, said Patrolman John Ambrose. "We are looking at it as a homicide," Patrolman Roy Taylor said Saturday. Police had not ruled out the possibility that the death resulted from a college prank or practical joke, he said. Police were checking dental records and finRerprints and scheduled an autopsy for today, he said.-The Observer 
Not just the athletes earn letter sweaters at 
CarmelJunior High School,in Carmel, Ind., where officials are giving out the awards for prowess in reading. "It's really an effort to con­tinue and rekindle their interest in reading," said Robert E. Brower, an art teacher and reading enthusiast who initiated the program last spring. About 100 students are working toward their letters in the classics and popular novels. Students who read 20 books from a 130­book list over four years get a certificate. Those who finish 40 books receive a sweater patch with the school crest, and 60 books earn a letter. Students who read 80 books are awarded a wooden plaque, and those who read 100 will receive a scholarship ofat least $100. 
Of Interest 
The Student Senate will meet tonight at 6 in Room 124 of Hayes-Healy.-The Observer 
The American Catholic Studies seminar 
sponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism will meet tomorrow afternoon in the Memorial library Lounge. Professor David O'Brien of the depart­ment of history, from the College of the Holy Cross, in Worcester, Mass. will speak on the topic: "Isaac Hecker as Symbol and Myth." Hecker was a noted Roman Catholic priest in the nineteenth cen­tury. The founder of the Paulist Fathers in 1858, he became well known for his theological writing and his efforts to make Cat­holicism more American. -The Observer 
Thinking about graduate school?A saint 
Mary's faculty panel will explorefactors to consider such as, when to attend, how to seekfunding, and how to prepare for entrance exams, tonight at 7 p.m. in Carroll Hall in Madeleva. The discussion, open to all juniors and seniors is sponsored by Counselingand Career Devel­opment Center and Academic Affairs. -The Observer 
SaintMary's PresidentDr. John Duggan will begin having"Open House" hours today and most Mondays from 3-5p.m. 
in his office. All students are invited to stop by and meet informally 
with Duggan and appointments are not necessary. -The Observer 

Weather 
Partly sunny and cool today 
with a high around 60. Clear and very cool tonight with a low in the middle to upper 30s. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow, high in the lower to middle 60s. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is 
Design Editor .................. , ............ Troy Illig 
published Monday through Friday and 
Design Assistant ...... Kathleen Nicholson 
on home football Saturdays, except 
Typesetters ................. Cathyann Reynold• 
during exam and vacation periods. The 
News Editor ........................... john Mennen 
Observer is published by the student.• of 
Copy Editor .............................. Mark Potter 
the University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Sports Copy Editor............. Mark Ramirez 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
Viewpoint Copy Editor. Paul Cimino 

purchased for 530 per year ( 520 per se· 
Vlewpoim Layout.. ................. Dave Grote 
mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
Features Copy Editor. Margaret McCabe 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

Features Layout............. Dana Bainbridge 
The Observer is a member of The 
ND Day Editor .................. Kathleen Doyle 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
Photographer ........................ Tom Bradley 
rights are reserved. 


Apathy and silence assist pro-choice cause 
Notre Dame students like to think of themselves as socially conscious. They are proud to be known as people who go out 
Mary Healy 
into the world caring about issues and not just money or success. Features Editor Sometimes this shining image gets a little tarnished, like when students hang obscene banners out their win­Inside Monday dows to protest the alcohol policy or start a food fight in the dining hall after an exciting football win. 


But Notre Dame students have shown that they can life causes, first privately and then publicly when most amply make up for any temporary displays of im­have been lulled into thinking the problem is not that maturity. One area where they consistently have important. They are slowly undercutting the dignity proven themselves to be sincere and caring is the abor­and sacredness ofhuman life, in more ways than killing tion issue. the unborn. 
When Mario Cuomo came to the campus to defend •In Great Britain, two leading medical organizations his laissez-faire attitude toward abortion, the reaction of advocate widespread, open experimentation on live many students was immediate and very clear. A group human embryos, only to discard them when the experi­ofstudents joined pro-lifers from South Bend to picket ments are complete. outside Washington Hall, carrying banners in a peaceful •Colorado Gov. Richard Lamm has stated that the protest. Members of the au· critically ill have a "duty to dience asked Cuomo die" because the high cost of pointedand hard-to-answer the medical care to keep questions. Several students them alive is ruining our were interviewed by 1V sta· economy. tions after the speech, and •While forced abortions almost all of them made it have long been a fact of life clear that Cuomo had not in some third world changed their view that if countries, the idea is not abortion is the killing of that far off in the distance in human life, then politicians the United States. A recent as well as ordinary citizens study funded by the March must work to change the of Dimes has sought to laws that allow it. In the prove that induced abor­weeks since the speech, The tions do not adversely affect Observer has been barraged subsequent fertility. with editorials attacking • A former president ofthe Cuomo's stance from every Right To Die Society, the conceivable angle. Rev. Joseph Fletcher, 
The effort is not limited to publicy advocates abortion, words. Last January..._ more infanticide, passive and ac-than 50 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students joined tive euthanasia. thousands ofconcerned people in Washington, D.C. for Doctors all over the nation are sued for "mercy kil· a pro-life march. Last spring, the Notre Dame/Saint ling" ofdeformed or mentally retarded infants. Mary's Right-to-Life group initiated and organized the These are just a few examples of the increasing opening of a women's care center in South Bend. disregard for life and the idea that we can chose for Hundreds of students contributed to the fund-raising others what is and isn't "quality life." And the greatest drive or volunteered to help in the phone-a-thon. The instrument helping it along is silence and apathy. center now provides free professional counseling and Notre Dame can make a difference in shaking off that pregnancy testing for women who may have seen no fatalistic attitude that keeps people from taking action alternative to abortion. quickly when something is wrong, and seriously wrong, 
This kind ofdirect action is critical in a world where in our laws or political system. too many are willing to stand back and let others take Let's keep up the energy in fighting for life and every care of the problems, or throw up their hands and other value that we believe is important. blame it on the government. Or like Cuomo, to engage in "meaningful dialogue" and wait until the nation 
~*****~*****:
arrives at a consensus. 

* . * 
Those attitudes do more than put off a nagging politi­cal issue. In the case ofabortion, they pave the way for : ~~: inhumane and determined people to further their anti· 
* *
*************************** 
P'........R~·~-~~·;~..H·~·i·;..·~ 


Shakespeare Club 
Styling presents 1984 film series: 
HAMLET Mon.. Oct.1 MACBETH Mon., Oct 29 OTHELLO Mon., Nov. 19 
531 N. Michigan St., 

~~~g Engineering Auditorium 1m. Phone 233-4957 JQ;
...................................................~ 


SUMMER PROGRAMS 
ND-SMC STUDENTS 
AIS 

LONOON 
ROME 
Shipping and 

ay22·June2 •l-====4.~ June 16 ·July 15 
Packaging Trouel in Ireland Traue~-. france Scodandi fnmc.'2 Germangi.,....erlartd Courses In Art. Business and Economics, Education 

•3617 Mishawaka Ave 

English, History and nallan ~ i:;
Mishawaka at Logan 

t...ro7 If

Informational meeting: Oct. ~rd ...&--<i Rm 232 Moreau (SMC) ;,~<~~~-{ 
t~ 'I 
~-:....., .\! 
--_; ~-' \

For further info. call 
l -'--·.

r;--q-·-­

Prof. A.A. Black 4460 
or 272-3726 ~..!'"~.. ·-~ 
91 



The Observer Monday, October 1, 1984 -page 3 







UMW representatives negotiate contract with three coal companies 
Associated Press tract signings with several indepen­Romey Nelson, the construction dent companies over the weekend workers' field representative for CHARLESTON, W.Va. -United had reduced the number of poten­southern West Virginia, said his local 
Mine Workers representatives and tial strikers to a "couple of was told to report for work today as three coal companies continued thousand" at A.T. Massey Coal usual. contract negotiations yesterday in Group, National Mines Corp. and Some union leaders had looked an effort to avert a threatened strike The Pittsburg & Midway Coal Min­forward to striking A.T. Massey, the by thousands of miners at midnight. ing Co. nation's sixth-largest coal producer, 
The three companies chose not to The walkout was scheduled for because of its apparent anti-union accept a pact negotiated by the 12:01 a.m. today. stance. Bituminous Coal Operators Associa­National Mines Corp. operates al­Massey has purchased non-union tion and signed Friday by association most exclusively in eastern Ken­coal, seen by the UMW as replacing officials and UMW president Rich tucky, while Massey operates in that mined by its members, many of Trumka. Trumka said the holdouts southern West Virginia, eastern Ken­whom are laid off. The company's 
would pay for demanding separate tucky and western Pennsylvania. subsidiaries, Elk Run Coal Co. and talks. Talks continued through the Marrowbone Development, have es­
"Ifwe are required to go on strike, weekend with the three companies, tablished non-union operations in then obviously the price of a settle­and Corcoran said the most promis­southern West Virginia. ment would go up," Trumka said. "I ing were at Pittsburg & Midway, More than 45,000 UMW miners couldn't ask the membership to go which operates largely in western are on layoffs, including nearly on strike to accept the same con­Kentucky. 3,000 announced Friday by U.S. tract that the rest ofthe membership Negotiators there were just Steel Corp., Olga Coal Co. and Can­did without a strike." "sorting over the problem stuff," he nelton Industries, the union has said. 
The pact signed last week marked said. Corcoran acknowledged that the first national contract settlement The UMW also negotiated yester­"there arc cases where there have without a strike in 20 years between day, in Washington, D.C., with the been some fairly bad relationships union miners and the soft coal indus­Association of Bituminous Contrac­between locals and Ma.~sey," but try. tors, representing companies that said the "main goal Is to negotiate a 
Union spokesman Joe Corcoran employ 8,000 UMW members han­fair and decent contract for Massey said yesterday that a flurry of con-dling coal mine construction. workers." 

SMC Founder's Day set for Oct. 9 
By MARY LOUISE PADDEN as president of the College. dining hall. All five dorms will partic­News Staff The Founder's Day festivities honor­ipate by providing birthday cake for 
Anything goes off-campus 
ing Saint Mary's 148 years of exis­all residents. 
Wllb tbe limits on parties and bans on drinking games, many Saint Mary's Founder's Day tence and Duggan's tenth On Tuesday, October 9 the actual 
celebration claims an added attrac­anniversary have· been brought to­Founders' Day events will be high­
moved offcampusfor tbe weekend. At Notre Dame apartments tbe 
tion this year as Dr .John Duggan will gether in order to add a special sig­lighted by a film "Excel" to be
on~y place left to dance was tbe table. 
be celebrating his tenth anniversary nificance to this year's celebration. shown at 7 pm. The film centers on 
Duggan's ten year term as 
president of SMC has brought 
stability to an administration charac­
terized by continued change in lead­
ership according to Sister 
Bernedette Marie ofSaint Mary's Ar­
chives. When Duggan arrived at 
SMC to begin his first year as presi­
dent, he was the eighth person in 
twelve years to fill the position. 
During the time he was being con­
sidered by the search commitee he 
made it clear that for him to fill the 
position of president for fewer than 
five years would make no sense. 
In celebrating his tenth anniver­sary, he reaches an initial goal ofpro­viding a new consistency and stability to the presidential office. In the past ten years Duggan has brought many positive changes to campus such as the construction of the Angela Athletic Facility, the Cushwa-Leighton Ubrary, and most recently, the Haggar College Center. "We have been highly successful in bringing about a substantial increase and diversification in scholarship aid, including an increase in college grants," Duggan said. He has also been highly successful in his efforts to increase the College's endow­ment. Ten years ago it was approxi­mately three million dollars and today the total has reached the l 5 million mark-
In the future, Duggan says he will be working to increase the number ofscholarships awarded to students. In addition, he would like to see more funds being directed toward faculty development and provision made for extending greater oppor­tunity for research and scholarship among faculty members by reducing teaching loads. 
Festivities surrounding the Foun­der's day celebration on campus will begin Monday, October 8 with a Mass in Regina Chapel at 4:45 fol­lowed by a candielight dinner in the 

$2
made with 100% natural 
cheeses and fresh, not 

on 
frozen toppings. And we'll deliver it, custom-made, to 
your door in 30 minutes or 
less. GUARANTEED. Call Domino's Pizza and help 
yourself to the best tasting 
pizza around. 


DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERS™ FREE. 

$2.00 off any 

16"-2item pizza. Offer good at listed locations. 
Exp1res in one week Fast, Free Delivery™ Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend Phone. 277-2151 
JTC NA 102 2650 1984 Dommo s P1zza lnr 
L1m1ted delivery area Our dnvers carry less than $20.00 1984 Oorruno's Ptua. Inc 
Saint Mary's past and present and Is 
being shown courtesy of the public 
relations department. Following the 
film will be a show featuring the dif­
ferent styles of dress, and the uni­
forms worn by SMC students 
through the years. Also included in 
Tuesday's celebration of Saint 
Mary's !48th birthday will be "A 
Walk 'fbrough Time," to be held at 
the Haggar College Center. Year­
books and period dress will be the 
core ofthis exhibit which will last all 
day. 
The focus on the past as well as the present, is in keeping with the rich tradition surrounding this Founder's Day celebration. The original date for the event was Octo­ber 13 which is the feast of St Ed­ward, the patron saint of Father Sorin, who together with Mother Angela Gillespie, founded the Col­lege in 1836. Since then the date has often been changed for reasons of convenience. In the past much of the celebration centered on musical events, outings and readings. Now, there Is a greater concentration on showing the College's beginnings, present achievements, and future goals. 
"Saint Mary's is an unusual place where people can disagree openly and civilly and debate ideas,"commented Duggan "It's also a place that has been caught in the time lagbetween reality and the per­ceived. We're in the process of trying to get our public Image to catch up to what we believe It should be." 
The Founder's Day events are geared to just this purpose. Schedules will be distributed through campus mail in order to bet­ter aquaint students and faculty with the events that have been planned. Any additional questions should be directed to Mary Beth Lavezorrio at 284-5016 
policy adviser to Democratic presidential nominee Walter



Soviets 
Mondale, told ABC interviewers he was "disappointed that something
continuedfrom page 1 
tangible wasn't accomplished" in 
the Reagan-Gromyko talk-~. Union during the Nixon administra­"If there was something good that tion. came out of this meeting, I don't 
Shultz predicted there will be think they would be keeping it a se­
follow-up consultations at the am­cret," Aaron said. bassadorial level in Washington and Mondale himself told reporters Moscow to decide plans for specific yesterday that the Reagan-Gromyko 
meetings on specific issues. session wa.~ an "apparent failure In David L. Aaron, senior foreign arms control." 
..-------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, October 1, 1984-page 4 

gram and represents the successful completion of certain prerequisites. 
marks the final acceptance into the nursing pro-
Mondale says president's meeting 'apparent failure in arms control' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Walter Mondale said yesterday that President Reagan's meeting with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko was an "apparentfailure in arms con­trol," and called on the president to provide a full accounting to the American people. 
In his weekly radio broadcast and in comments to reporters after­wards, Mondale also renewed his suggestion that the president "invites further assaults" by terror­ists on American installations over­seas with the "false, misguided and dangerous" charge that the CIA has been weakened. 
"I call on Mr. Reagan immediately and clearly to withdraw his claims about the weakness of the CIA," he said. 
Reagan spent the weekend at the presidential retreat in Camp David, Md., before embarking Monday on a . three-day campaign trip to Mic­higan, Mississippi and Texas. 
Vice President George Bush pic­nicked with Republicans at a farm outside ofCleveland. 
Mondale's vice presidential can­didate, Geraldine Ferraro, was at home yesterday in Queens, N.Y. 
As is his custom, the Democratic challenger spent very little time in public during the day, attending church services and then stoppingat a local radio station for his paid, five­minute campaign speech. 
In discussing the Gromyko­Reagan meeting and the most recent terrorist attackon the U.S. embassy 

TYPING 
-tr. Term Papers 
lt'Resumes •Letters 
•Manuscripts 

•Word Processing 
CaD Chris At: 
234-8997 
in Lebanon, Mondale continued to stress foreign policy issues that have become central to his effort to raise doubts about Reagan's leadership ability. 
At one point, he said the Reagan­Gromyko session was an "apparent failure in arms control," and at an­other, he said, "Apparently there was no progress toward arms con­trol." 
"I believe the president has a duty to hold his own news conference, to tell the American people what we're to make ofthis," Mondale said. 
"What did they try?" he said ofthe president and his aides. 
"What did the Soviets respond with? Did we do what we could honorably have done to move for­ward ...?" he asked. 
As he has said before, Mondale in­dicated he would have proposed a short-term moratorium on space weapons as well as other steps to try to nurture an arms control effort. "Apparently these offers were not made" by the administration when the president and the Soviet foreign minister met Friday, he said. 
Mondale said the results of the Reagan-Gromyko meeting were "both disappointing and a basis for apprehension" -because it raised doubts about "which Reagan will we see" ifhe wins a second term. 
"Will we see the Reagan who for four years has engineered an arms race ... or will we see a Reagan who, as he has in the past week, talks about peace?" 
Bush's appearance in Ohio comes as a new public opinion poll there shows the Reagan-Bush ticket favored by 56 percent compared to 44 percent for the Mondale-Ferraro ticket. 
Besides the Ohio results, the Re­publican ticket got encouraging news from a spate of states over the weekend. Public optmon polls showed the Republicans ahead by margins of 1 0 points in Illinois, 1 7 percent in Michigan, and 28 points in Missouri and Virginia. 


Ford, UAW prepare to resume negotiations 
AssociatedPress  The  350,000 rank-and-file UAW  
memhers at GM  are  scheduled to  
DEARBORN, Mich. ­ Bargainers for vote on the contract before Oct. 14.  

Ford Motor Co. and the United Auto Workers union prepared yesterday for formal resumption of contract talks suspended while the union bar­gained at General Motors Corp. 
A meeting was scheduled today at the main bargaining table between the chiefnegotiators for both sides ­Peter Pestillo for Ford and Stephen 
Yokich  for  the  UAW,  which  
represents  11 5,000  Ford  
employees.  

Meanwhile, some 4,200 workers at GM's Van Nuys, Calif., assembly plant cast ballots yesterday on local and national contracts. 
The plant, which was closed Sat­urday for retooling for 1985 produc­tion, was one of 17 units struck after the contract expired. Workers walked out again for several days last week but returned to finish work on 1984 models. 
The separate national contracts between the UAW and the two automakers expired Sept. 14. 
The UAW is seeking to replace concessions made when those con­tracts were struck in 1982. 
GM and the union reached a tentative contract agreement Sept. 21 after six days ofspot local strikes that crippled the operations of the world's largest automaker. 
They have been working without a contract. 
Talks with Ford had recessed after Labor Day, when the union singled out GM as its strike target -part of what is known as pattern bargaining. 
The union says it now will try to match the GM accord at Ford. 
However, Ford told the union even before the GM pact was struck that it did not intend to match that agreement. 
The GM accord includes pay raises and worker-aid programs that Ford may decide are too expensive. 
UAW officials said the pay of the average GM employee will rise by $8,730 over thr-ee years, ifthe pact is ratified, with $3,000 more possible under the company's profit-sharing plan. 
But GM is far richer and bigger than Ford and less susceptible to competition from Chrysler Corp. and foreign carmakers. 
The UAW workers at Ford have been working under terms of a con­tract extension, which includes a 72-hour termination notice. 
Should the union threaten a strike, it would have to give Ford three days' warning. 


The Obs~rver/Thom Bradley

Hot night 
A bonfire on White Field followed by fireworks over Stepan Center were part oflast weekends Fall­Festival activities. Other ativities includeda picnic lunch with barbequed chicken and ribs. 
,, ·. UNCLES' Pus · 
112 MILE SOUTH OF UNIV. PARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 
PITCHERS of BEER 






$2.50 
Giant Screen T.V. 
Watch the Cubs and the baseball playoffs 
DOORS OPEN 11:30 
Abortion 
continuedfrom page 1 
to the Nazi slaughter of Jews in World War II. In a January speech, Reagan condemned "the death of 15 million helpless innocents" since abortion's legality was affirmed in 1973 by the U.S. Supreme Court. 
Father Peter Finn, a spokesman for O'Connor, called Moran's com­ments "totally irresponsible and ir­rational" and said the archbishop has made clear his opposition to vio­lence. 

Other anti-abortion leaders bristle at the suggestion that their followers have had anything to do 
with  the attacks  on  the abortion  
clinics.  
The  morning  after  Atlanta's  

Northside Family Planning Services was firebombed, clients were seen as usual, said Director Mel Cohen. 
~································ 
STUDENTS: Are you sure you want to miss this? 
YOUNG ADULTS 
and 


ALCOHOL/SUBSTANCE ABUSE 
Discussion with Dr. VannA. Smith 
Clinical Neuropsychologist at Parkside Lodge, Mundelein, Illinois 
Tuesday, October2 at 8 p.m. Library Auditoriuni 
SPONSORED BY: UnhenityofNoueDame Counseling &: Psychological Services Center 
"Take a study break and come listen" 

The Observer 

Monday, October 1, 1984-page 5 



Extremists sentenced for trying to overthrow government 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt-A judge sentenced I07 Moslem extremists to prison yesterday hut acquitted 174 others accused of trying to overthrow the Egyptian government following the assassination of President Anwar Sadat. 
lbe white-robed defendants chanted slogans such as "Egyptians wake up!" and "No to America, no to Israel!" before Chief Judge Abdcl­Ghaffar Ahmed read the sentences amid tight security in a makeshift courtroom on Cairo's fairgrounds. 
Sixteen defendants, including former army intelligence officer Lt. Col. Abboud el-Zomor, were sen­tenced to "life" imprisonment at hard labor. Under Egyptian law, they will be released after 25 years, and possibly after 18 years with good conduct. Sentences for the others convicted ranged from 1 5 years to two years. 

Of the original 302 accused, two died before the trial began and 19 others were never apprehended. 
All were charged in connection with riots that broke out in the southern city ofAssiut two days after Sadat was killed on Oct. 6, 1981, by members oftheJihad (Holy War) or­ganization. 
Egyptian officials said 87 people, 


t .. CAMPUS INTERVIEWS ·----·· · ._ · ,... · October 1, 1984 


including 66 police, were killed in the uprising. The prosecution said the plotters hoped Sadat's assassina­tion would lead to a general revolu­tion and that the civil government would be replaced with a fundamen­talist Islamic regime modeled after Iran's under Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. 
Elsewhere in Egypt on Sunday, riot police clashed with stone­throwing demonstrators and ar­rested a number of "known radical leftists" in the industrial Nile Delta city of Kafr el-Dawar. Authorities said it was the first such demonstra­tion since the days right after Sadat's assassination, but gave no cause for the protest. 
On Saturday, the Egyptian Parlia­ment extended for 19 months the state of emergency imposed after Sadat's death. The emergency decree permits police searches without warrants, bans demonstra­tions and strikes and allows suspected subversives to be held without charges. 
In another court proceeding, 176 people are being tried on charges of belonging to the outlawed Jihad group, but are not accused of spe­cific acts of violence against the state. 
The EgyptianJihad organization is not believed to have formal links with the Lebanese-based "Al-Jihad al-Islami," or Islamic Holy War, a pro-Iranian group that has claimed responsibility for three bombings that killed 260 Americans in Beirut since last year. 
Outside the court in Cairo, police stood guard with automatic weap­ons as hundreds ofrelatives and sup­porters of the defendants cheered when word spread that there had been no death sentences. 



Arab nations crticize Jordan's Egyptian ties 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Syrian officials met in Damascus yesterday with leaders of two other Arab nations opposed to Jordan's renewed ties with Egypt. 
Syrian President Hafcz Assad, whose government condemned Jor­dan's action last week, met Brig. Gen. Boubakr Younes, commander­in-chief of the armed forces in Ubya and an outspoken foe of resumed Jordanian-Egyptian relations. 
Mohammed Sharif Massaediyyeh, secretary of the ruling party in Al­geria, the National Liberation Front, also arrived in the Syrian capital on Sunday for talks with Syrian officials. Algeria has criticizedJordan's move, though not as stridently as Syria and Libya. 
The official Syrian Arab news agency said Younes met Assad and Lt. Gen. Mustafa Tlas, Syria's defense minister, but did not specify what was said at the session. 
There was no announcement of 
Massaediyyeh's scheduled meetings. 
Ubya's government and the Syrian government newspaper Al-Thawra both called for an Arab boycott of Jordan for becoming the first Arab government to renew tics with ERVPt. Ties with Egypt were severed after Egypt signed the 1978 U.S.-sponsored Camp David accords, followed by a 1979 peace treaty with Israel. 
The Dama.~cus meetings came as Israel's government said yesterday it hoped the resumption of Egyptian­Jordanian relations "will contribute to a renewal of the peace process in the Middle East." 
Sources in Beirut said meanwhile that Syrian and Israeli views on withdrawal of foreign forces from Lebanon remain far apart. 
A key difference blocking a plan for withdrawal of foreign troops from Lebanon appeared to be oppos­ing views on whether Lebanon's army or an Israeli-backed militia would take up posts vacated by Is­rael's army. 

SQMECOURSES IMPROVE SCORES­WE IMPROVES TUD ENTS ,TOO! 
BUILD YOURS KILLS TO BOOST YOURS CO REI 

PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
*test-n-tape library *reinforcement lest 
* homestudy packet 
CLASSES STARTING IN OCTOBER 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272-4135 
THERE'S MORE THAN ONE WAY TO SERVE YOUR COUNTRY. 
The Army is anything but a one-way street. You have all kinds of options. 
For starters, there are Active Army and Army Reserve. lf you choose to go into the Active Army, you can enlist for 2 or 3 years. And you can take your choice from over 30Qskills you may qualify to train in.lf you're thinking about"college,Jou should certainly look into the Army College Fun . 
lf you're already committed to a job or school, you can still serve your country part-time in the Army Reserve, one weekend a month and two weeks a year, learning a useful skill and earning over $1,200 a year to start. 
The Army has many ways for you to serve your country. For the one best suited for you, call your Army Recruiter. ­



View~_o_i_n_t________
M-on-da-y,_oc-tob-er-1,_19-84-p-age-6 
Reflections on Cuomo: The Secret Concensus
r 
r r 
r 
r 
~ r ~ 
, r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r· 
r 
~ 
r 
,r 
Many thoughts have been running through my mind since listening to Governor Mario Cuomo's brilliant talk on religion and politics at Notre Dame. But first a little background. 
When the Roman emperors were feeding Christians to the lions, there was little church­state controversy. After Constantine's conver­sion in 312, the church-state issue took on a newlife, and there followed fourteen cenuries of various state churches. The First Amend­ment to the U.S. Constitution happily flew in the face of that situation, even though those who had immigrated to America to escape persecution by various state churches in 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
guest column 
Europe had already established their own 
state churches in 1 0 of the 13 colonies when 
Madison penned that amendment. 
Because of the First Amendment, religion 
became a matter of personal conviction in 
America and gave us in the intervening years 
the strongest and most diverse group ofreligi­
ous citizens on earth...and the most free. 
While we are locked together in argument -as 
at present -that is better than being locked 
together in violence, as in Lebanon 01; Nor 
thern Ireland or Iraq -Iran. The greatest civic 
virtues in America are tolerance and civility. 
Despite the recent election -year clamor, no 
religion really wants to become established 
by the state in America. Likewise, no religion 
really wants to impose its religious tenets on 
others in America. These allegations only 
cloud the discussion. 
What then of religion and politics? Unlike church -state questions which are institu­tional, ~eligion and politics are personal. If politicians are religious-and most are in some way or another, like most Americans -it is in­conceivable that their religiously founded convictions will not enter into their political lives. Moral convictions touch many public concerns in America: the nuclear threat, human rights, problems of poverty, housing, education, the Third World, drugs, environ­ment, and abortion, too. 
Let me try an analogy. I grew up and was educated during the thirties and forties and learned to despise prejudice ofall kinds, espe­cially our treatment ofblacks in America. Cer­tainly this basic moral conviction was of religious origin, but it was also philosophical, experiential, and shared by many non­religious people throughout the nation. 
We were,at that time, under a law of the land with which I was in thorough moral dis­agreement: Plessy v. Ferguson, which condoned separate but equal treatment for blacks. Many worked against that law in every way possible, but within the democratic and pluralistic structure of our country. Plessy v. Ferguson was finally, after 58 years, repealed by the Supreme Court in 1954, but there was still much yet to be done. Executive action by President Johnson and legislative action by Congress in 1964, 1965, and 1968 changed the face ofAmerica. Apartheid, once the law of the land, was dead, and a new American con­sensus, both religious and non-religious in origin, welcomed its demise. Neither the con­sensus nor the change just happened; both were made to happen. 

Was there anything un-American about that procedure? Was I wrong to spend 15 years on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, trying to build a consensus opposing what I and others, for both religious and non-religious reasollS', believed a horrible injustice? Now, is it un­American to be convinced that the frivolous taking of life is unjust? Is it un-American for people to be so convinced to articulate what they believe to be an existing consensus, or to develop a new one, in order to restict legal abortions? 
Let us consider two basic points. 
1. 
The widespread uneasiness about 1,500,000 abortions a year on demand, over­whelmingly for the convenience of the mot­her, is not. an exclusively Catholic malaise. Since Roe v. Wade, abortions have increased from thousands to millions, and 70 percent of Americans polled (Gal!:.tp, Harris, National Opinion Research Center), Americans with various religions or none, affirm that they share this malaise. 

2. 
Ifgiven a choice between the present law of abortion-on-demand, up to and including viability, or a more restrictive law, such as limitation of abortion to cases of rape, incest, and serious threat to the mother's life, the majority of Americans polled consistently have supported the more limited option. Why? I keep remembering a message in Chinese on a cemetery wall in Hong Kong, a message from the dead: "What you are, I once was; what I am, you soon enough will be." At the other end of the spectrum oflife, a human fetus, granted speech, might well say to us: "What I am, you once were; what you are, I soon enough will be-ifyou let me." One need 


not: be a professional philosopher or theolo­gian to see the point ofthis argument. 
Ifit was patriotic, just and noble to work for the repeal ofPlessy v. Ferguson and apartheid, why should it now seem un-American to work for fewer legally sanctioned abortions when there is already a moral consensus that finds our present legal permissiveness on abortion excessive and intolerable? 
In fairness, it must be said, as Governor Cuomo and others committed to politics, the art of the possible, have pointed out, there is not a consensus in America for the absolute prohibition ofabortion. But there is and was a mo~al consensus, one ignored by the Supreme Court. in Roe v. Wade, for a stricter abortion law. A remarkably well-kept secret is that a minority is currently imposing its belief on a demonstrable majority. It is difficdt to t;x­plain how a moral America, so brilliantly suc­cessful in confronting racial injustice in the sixties, has the most permissive abortion law of any Western country, recognizing virtually no protection for unborn human beings as a biologist will describe the fetus, or, the Holy Innocents, as we call those butchered long ago by Herod in Bethlehem. In West Ger­many, the highest federal court, mindful ofthe holocaust, struck down abortion-on-demand as violating right-to-life provisions of the country's constitution. The only countries 
that agree with our laws are mainly the Com­munist countries, especially Russia and China. 
Is making common cause with all those against truly permissive abortion a Catholic position? The bishops' support of the Hatch Amendment was a move in this direction. But generally, the pro-life movement has been for an absolute prohibition of abortion. Ifsuch a total solution is not possible in our pluralistic society, and, in fact, was voted down by na­tional referendum in Catholic Italy, will Cat­holics cooperate with other Americans of good will and ethical conviction to work for a more resrictive abortion law? One might hope so. This would not compromise our belief in the sanctity of all human life. We should con­tinue to hold ourselves to a higher standard than we can persuade society-at-large to write into law. If Catholics would help articulate this consensus, favoring a more restrictive abOrtion law short of an absolute ban, Catho­lic politicians would no longer be able (orfeel compelled) to say, "I'm against abortion, but..." Catholic and other politians could even relive the civil rights revolution in an ultimate context oflife and death. 

This column is being syndicated to major market newspapers by United Press Synd­icate, but The Observer bas been granted permission to print itfree ofcharge. 
SWE makes Industry Day a success 
On Wednesday oflast week Industry Day -a well-planned, student-run event -took place on the Notre Dame campus. Sponsored by The Society of Women Engineers and the Joint Engineering Council, it consisted of a day-long fair during which engineering stu­dents could get factual information about various companies, followed by a semi-formal banquet which allowed students to chat with the corporate representatives about their par-
David G. Grote 
speaking out of turn 
ticular company, about their experience in the workplace, or even about the Notre Dame football team. 
SWE initiated Industry Day four years ago in an effort to increase its standing as a profes­sional society at Notre Dame. Approximately eight companies, mostly from the South Bend area, were represented at the first Industry Day, with only about 30 people attending the banquet in the Morris Inn. 
Last year, under the leadership ofSWE Pres­ident Cathy Pieronek, Industry Day earned greater prestige with the participation of larger corporations such as IBM and TRW, and with the joint sponsorship oftheJEC. Yet even with the participation of these prestigious companies, only about 12 were represented. 

This year, though, under SWE President Jane Dowd and JEC President Tom Pieronek, Industry Day seems to have reached full bloom. 
In April, Pieronek, in effort to increase the number of participating companies, doubled the number of invitations sent out from the previous year' s 60 to more than 120. As an­ticipated, the response also doubled. This year, 25 companies from across the nation sent representatives. 
Dowd and Pieronek did a fantastic job com­municating with the sometimes difficult parti-

The Observer~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either InStitution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a maJority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and the free expression of varying op1nions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
cipants, providing them with an information packet, containing the lndusty Day itinerary, a list of local hotels and restaurants, a campus map, and one-day passes to The University Club for each ofthe representatives. 
Tom Reidy, the JEC vice-president, handled the details ofthe day-long fair, assigning aJEC representative to each company. These stu­dent volunteers were responsible for picking up packages delivered to the engineering de­partment for their respective companies and bringing them to the exhibit. During the fair, they frequently checked on the company rep­resentatives, answering their questions, watching their exhibits while they went to lunch, and in one case, even getting lunch for them. This special attention impressed the participating companies. 
Industry Banquet Chairman Kathy Ziemer handled the reservations and seating arrange­ments for the banquet, with the SWE dorm representatives helping design the programs, make the centerpieces, and hang posters. Ziemer had the unenviable task of seating more than 200 students. But with the help of the other SWE officers, managed to keep most people happy and seated almost all the seniors with the company they were most interested in. 
The banquet provided a unique opportu­nity for the engineering students. By talking with corporate representatives, the students were able to learn about their respective com­panies, get tips on interviewing, and gain some picture of life in the workplace. The S200 received from each participating com­pany subsidized much of the cost of the ban­quet. 
SWE Treasurer Peggy Collins served as the Industry Day treasurer, managing the budget, while Martha Moran, the SWE secretary, helped with much of the less visible chores such as laying out the banquet floor and typing up letters. 
Industry Day has helped SWE emerge as perhaps the most prominent professional or-
Editorial Board 
Editor-m-Ch1ef. . Bob Vonderhetde Managina Fd1tor Mark W"rc;r_hph News Ed1tor ... . Sarah Hdmllton News Ed1tor . ... Dan McCullr,ugh Samt Mary's Edttor . . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Sports Ed1tor Mtchael Sullivan Vtewpoint Ed1tor . . .. Dave Grote Features Editor. . Mary Healy Photo Ed1tor. Pete Laches 
ganization in the engineering college -an or­ganization dedicated to serving the interests of all engineering students. It also has helped raise the status of women in engineering -a field that has always been male-dominated 

and  has  therefore  been  subject  to  dis­ 
criminatory views.  
But,  more  importantly,  Industry  Day  

reflects the initiative and talent ofNotre Dame students. The student volunteers who worked many long and thankless hours, did so because they cared about their futures and.the futures of others. In making Industry Day a success, they overcame many obstacles and showed their ability to deal with professionals as re­sponsible, intelligent people -an example some people under the Dome should take greater note of. 
David G. Grote is a senior electrical engi­neering major and is the Viewpoint editor at The Observer. 

Policy 
The Viewpoint page gives you the opportunity to express your opinion through letters to the editor and guest columns. Letters to the editor must be well-written and typed, and should not exceed 150 words. The Observer will not run letters addressed to columnists or writers of letters to the editor. Letters to the editor may be mailed toP.O.Box Q orband delivered to our office. 
The Observer also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should also be well-written and typed, and should not exceed 650 words. Guest columns must be presented to the Viewpoint editorforpublication. 
The Observer retains the right to edit all materials submitted to the Viewpoint department. 
Department Managers 
Busmess Manager  ... Dave Taiclet  
Controller.  Mar1pat Horne  
Advertistng Manager  ..  . Anne Culligan  
CJrculat10n Manager  . . Jeff O'Neill  
Systems Manager  Kevin Williams  

Founded November 3, 1966 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­




Showcase 
Monday, October 1, 1984 -page 7 
More than a Christian duty 
Let's get picky 

by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
Special to The Observer 
H
e was a sophomore when he first contemplated working with the retarded. A friend signed him up to volunteer at Logan Cen­ter. lbanks buddy. Well, he thought, I guess that this will be a good way for me to give of myself to someone less fortunate than I, to do my Christian duty. 
The first Saturday morning found him a little "under the weather" with a cold mixed with apprehen­sion about being in the midst of retarded people. When his friend came by so that they could walk together to Logan, he backed out of going, saying that he was sick. As soon as he was alone again, he went back to bed. But the thought that he should at least give Logan a try gnawed at him and soon drove him out of bed again. This time he went. 
The closer he got to Logan the more worried he became. "I don't know IfI can handle this. These people are...well...they're different!" But on he went. When he reached the table where name tags were being distributed, he told a girl who 

W
ell, I hear some pretty big shakeups are goln' on over In the 
sports department due to that dangdurn poor record that Spons 
Editor Mike Sullivan has had as a "Peerless Prognisticator," and It 
seems the editorial board has decided IfMike don't make .500 this 
week, he's as good as unemployed, and so I guess that's just the ticket 
for a knowledgeable dude IJ.kc: me to step in and take control. 
So, dear Mr. Editor, I am hereby applying for the position ofspons 
editor ofTbe Obseroer. 
For starters, I reckon I should mention that I am 20 years of age, but 
I would like to add that each one of tho..'ie years contains up to four 
years of wisdom and smarts. I'm a senior hailin' from the wild section 
of Phoenix, Arizona, and my past job experience Includes a four-hour 
stint at Burger King, two months as coach ofmy little brother's T-baU 
team, and and a year ofpackin' squid at a New England wharf. 
In addition, my cousin Leroy reads the spons section ofUSA Today 
to me every day, and my Interests Include ZZ Top, Old Style beer, and 
big ol' pickups with which to run over pesky jackrabbits. Plus, I got 
references comin' out ofmy ears, but I'll just name a few: Bill Dodson 
from the General Store, 01' Ma Harper who's about a hundred years 
old, and The Man Upstairs. 
But all that boring stuff aside, there's still the matter ofthe proper 
credentials for beln' a sports editor, and of course everyone knows 
that's bein' able to pick the aU-important Games ofthe Week correctly. 
Now I know y'all won't be seeln' hide nor hair of this column 'til 
Monday, but I'm writln' It on Thursday night since I'm fixin' on headin' 
down to the Missouri game this weekend. Therefore, I have no earthly 
Idea what In God's name is gonna happen on Saturday, and after It's all 
over, Mr. Editor, you can compare my picks with Mr. Sullivan's picks, 
and we'll just see who should be sports editor. 
Now, for my picks. 
IOWA (Jl!er 11/inois by 4 -As for myself, I have yet to come across 
more than one person from Iowa who can do any more than milk a 
cow, so unless they play a different brand offootball there than I am 
familiar with, I will be plenty surprised if Illinois loses this one. Go 
with the lllini. 
Texas Ol'erPenn State by2 -Since this game is at the Meadowlands, 
those Texans, ego or not, are gonna be totally disoriented and slower 
than a mule with a migraine. And since joe Paterno is smarter than 
your average Texan, look for Penn State to beat the odds on this one. 
Nehmska 011er SYRACUSE by 24 -I think even the Houston Oilers 
would have quite a time with Nebraska, and not even thousands of 
people slngin' "Houston Oilers number one" could help 'em out, 
because Cornhuskers don't get intimidated by anyone, and especially 
not by Texans or New Yorkers. Pick Nebraska to beat the spread and 
some to hoot. 
MICHIGANSTATEoverPurdue by3 -Well, let's see here. We lost to 
Purdue by thrn·, heat the Spartans by four, so that's Purdue by seven, 
hut Michigan State is at home so give 'em five points and that's Purdue 
by two, hut then you gotta divide by your birthday and add the 
number of times you've heard "She Bop" in the last five hours, and so 
go with the Boilermakers on this one. Trust me. 
Micbigm1 011er INDIANA by 20.5 -Indiana would have a better 
chance playin' au'tly from home. Besides, Mr. Schemhechler is gettin' 
tirl·d ofhcin' confused with Bo Derek and Bolero and Beaux Arts, so 
he's got somt"thing to prove. Wolverines by 49. 
ALABAMA over Vanderbilt by 7.5 -Ibate Vanderbilt. Take the 
Crimson Tide and bet the whole farm on 'em. 
STANFORD overArizona State by I -Obviously superior life forms come out ofArizona, and Stanford doesn't stand a cotton-pickin' chance In a cornfield ofbeatin' the Sun Devils. Besides, all they ever do out in California is have fun and go to the beach anyway, so go with the tough guys from Camp Tontazona to beat the odds. 
UCLA overCOLORADO by II -Like I said, all they know how to do in California is have fun and go to the beach, so look for plenty of confusion when the Bruins can't find even the remnants ofa beach in Colorado. Take the Buffaloes on this one. 
USC even wttb Louisiana State -I'm not going to say it again. LSU by a field goal. Georgia overSO. CAROliNA by3.5 -Another coin flip. Tails, so take Carolina. Besides, with a name like Gamecocks, they've got to be good. 
WISCONSIN over Northwestern by 21 -Wisconsin is a pretty wild school, so measure this one by each player's alcoholic content percentage times the temperature at kickoff and divide by the number of Northwestern players who have tests on Monday or Tuesday. The Badgers by infinity. 
Notre Dame over MISSOURI by 3.5 -I hear Mizzou's hoppin' mad over the two losses they've had, but I still can't pick against the Irish. My daddy would be pretty upset, and It would not be a very happy situation at all. Besides, Notre Dame better win since I'll be there. 
While I'm at It, Mr. Editor, I may as well tell you that, ( I) 'Ilte Los Angeles Raiders and Howard section 3-South will heat up on whoever they play this week; ( 2) Reagan will get lucky and defeat Mondale in thl· next election; and ( 3) I will win my next game ofTrivial Pursuit by supplyin' the correct answer of"Gene Krupa" for tht: final pie. 
So after I get 13 out of my 14 picks correct this week, Mr. Editor, I am sure you will have no trouble selcctin' 1be Observer's next sports editor, now that you know what really makes a good one. I'll try to write a few good stories here and there, and I'll make a decent attempt to run the sports department, hut mostly I'll pick the weekly games well enough to give Art Schlicter heartburn. Thank you for your undt·rstandin' and consideration. 
Sincerely, Marc Ramirez 
was writing down names that this 
was his first time and also that he 
had a bad cold. 

"Is It still alright to be around the kids?" he asked, half hoping that she would say no. 
"Oh yeah," she replied in a cheery voice, "no problem! Now, would you do me a favor and watch Stevie today?" 
Stevie came to him, a basketball in his hands and a big smile on his face. The little fella, about eight years old, reached out to shake the new volunteer's hand. Stevie proceeded to run around Logan for two hours, never seeming to ex­haust his energy supply. He talked on and on in short, broken phrases about Gerry Faust, Blair Kiel and Notre Dame football. What a fan! And he made his new volunteer friend feel right at home. 
That new volunteer is now a "veteran" and has missed very few Saturdays since that first one. And every week, as soon as he walks through that front door, Stevie, not much bigger now than he was then, jumps into his arms and gives him a great big hug that says, "I love you, Tom!" Yep, I get a hug from my little friend every week now, cold or no cold. 
You see, these special kids seem 
to lack a lot of the Inhibitions that can be found in our world --even new faces deserve hugs. The kids know how to love and how to give. I come away from Logan realizing that Stevie and the other kids have given so much more to me than I can give to them. They help to open the door to my yesterdays, allowing me to release the child within my heart. I can run around singing and dancing without a care for what other people think because I know that there Is a child at the heart of all the kids there. It's wonderful to watch this crazy, but very real part of me come alive and not have to be embarrassed. 
Saturday recreation at Logan Center provides an opportunity for the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to Interact with retarded citizens ofthe South Bend area in a recreational atmosphere. The retarded "kids" range from very young children to senior citizens, and their degrees of retardation also vary. Saturday morning finds Logan, located just south ofGreen Field, alive with music, arts and crafts, and games. From 9:00-11:30 a.m. volunteers concentrate intensely on achieving the primary goal ofrecreation ­hav ngfun! 



Perhaps too off beat 
by Dan McCullough 
features staffwriter 
E
lmore Leonard's novel,LaBrava, which was just released in paperback, Is about a down-on-his­luck ex-secret serviceman in South Miami who gets Involved in an extortion scheme with a former B-movie actress. But it's not as Interesting as it sounds. 
The book traces the adventures ofjoe I..aBrava, whose torrid past includes such experiences as secret service details guarding Margaret Truman's house. At the beginning of the book he is struggling with the 
idea ofbecoming a professional 
photographer. Basically, he Is a 

burnt out beach bum -a professional 
gone horribly wrong. 
He meets up with jean Shaw, a 
faded star who specialized in 
playing the naughty bomewrecker ­
trying to steal the faithful husband 
but always defeated by the virtuous 
wife. They first meet in an alcobol 
detox tank and the relationship 
takes off from there. 
Shaw, however, also has been scheming with a redneck small-time goon, Richard Nobles, who Is petty and at the same time, nasty. To­gether, they devise a plan to extort a bundle from Shaw's oldest friend, biggest fan and fiscal benefactor, Maurice. He's a wise old man who has been around the block a few times, but Is so blinded by his devo­tion to Shaw that he can not see how wicked she really is. 
First, the good stuff. Leonard has an amazing way ofmaking dialogue come off the printed page and sound realistic. His street-smart phrasing allows the reader to believe In the validity ofhis charac­ters. Plus, his style ofwriting is geared towards dialogue. There are pages at a time In which there Is very little besides the characters talking to each other -and that makes the book a quick read. 
Leonard's description of the worn out South Miami setting, with its once-fashionable hotels and old 
jewish ladies, is very appealing. The mixed ethnic neighborhood is vibrant with cotortul characters and situations. 
Unfortunately, the book's had points just might outweigh the good. The plot is not very original and falls apart towards the end. It almost seems as if Leonard inserted whole sections of the book after the body had been written to make the plot work. These sections are pretty evident and stick out like a pair of plaid pants. Especially poor is the introduction of Mincy Combs, Nobles' backwoods uncle, late in the book. Combs is an interesting 
character, but doesn't even survive 
the chapter. The story Is full of 
missed opportunities like this. That 
is what makes the difference be­
tween a good detective novel and a 
fair one. This one is definitely fair. 
This is not to say that Leonard is a bad novelist. Some ofhis other novels succeed in precisely the places where this one fails. One 

•
such novel by Leonard isSttck. 

l• 
Ifyou are interested in detective novels and you've read ajohn D. McDonald book or two, you may be looking for something a little off beat. There are "Dutch" Leonard 

~ 
books that could be recommended. LaBrava Is not one ofthem. ~ 

--------------------------------~----------------~----------------~--------------------~..~.-~--------------~-~~.------------------­


Sports Briefs 

Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly.-The Obseroer 
A freshman swimming meetfor men and WO· men will be held Wednesday, Oct. 10, at 7 p.m. Hall reps must turn in a list ofentries to Coach Stark the day before the meet at the Rockne Building. Divers must submit a list ofdives to Stark before the meet. For more information, call 239-7042. -The Obseroer 
A badminton tournamentis beingheld by NVA. Singles and doubles entries for the double-elimination tournament will be accepted at the NVA office until this Wednesday, Oct. 3. -The Obseroer 
A beginners archery clinic will be sponsored by NVA on Oct. 8, 9 and 11 from 4:15 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. each day. Deadline to register in person at the NVA office is this Friday, Oct. 5. ­The Obseroer 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables at Edwardsburg, Mich., will be sponsored by NVAon Sunday, Oct. 7. Rides will be at noon, l :30 p.m., 3 p.m. and 4:30p.m. EST. The charge for transportation and 50-to 60-minute rides is SS. Times must be reserved in person at the NVA office by Oct. 3. -The Obseroer 
The ND women's soccer team will play host to Wheaton College today at 4:30p.m. -The Obseroer 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad· venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in !he 
•• ~ ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
t 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the 
ROTC Building. (239-6264) 

EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 

TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674­9182 FOR DETAILS. 
! t TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674­9182 FOR DETAILS. 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674-9182 FOR DETAILS. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CAU MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
~ 
TYPING Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 

I ~ 
Will type your papers, manuscripts, etc. Fast and accurate. Reasonable rates. Pick up and drop off service. Call Mary 234-5545. 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in !he ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner " CPT Anne Rieman in !he ROTC' Jing. (239-6264) 
EJC' •rTYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 
·lNG AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 

o'YPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674· 9182 FOR DETAILS. 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CAU 674­9182 FOR DETAILS. 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CAUL 674-9182 FOR DETAILS. 
T.K.O.. FRANK THE SLAV WEAR THOSE BLUE JEANS AND STAY OUT OF THE 'BRAIR ON WEEKENDS 
BOOKS BOUGHT SOLO & TRADE. THIS AD IS WORTH X-TRA 10/ DISC. PAN­DORA$ BOOKS 937 SO.BEND AVE. 
ALL BUSINESS STUDENTS CAREER 
FORUM THURS OCT. 4TH 7:00PM 122 
HAYES-HEALY 

HI CLUB MEMBERS: Tailgater for Miami Game planned RSVP by Wed., Oct 3 to one of !he following: Lisa 1328, Claire 1334, Stacy 4619. 
ND-SMC ITALIAN CLUB MEETING AT THE BASEMENT OF REGINA NORTH, SMC, 6:00PM WEDNESDAY OCT. 3 
VIDEO DANCE VIDEO DANCE VIDEO DANCE FRIDAY 9-2 CHAUTAOUA FEATURING THE BEST IN DANCE VIDEOS Sponsored by the Progressive Music Club VIDEO DANCE is free for club members, $1 lor general public 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST:1 PAIR PENNY LOAFERS­REWARD-KEVIN 3828 
LOST Wallet during the Holy Cross SYR at the Americana Hotel fri. nigh!. There was no money, only piclures and IDs. 4124 REWARD!!!! 
LOST· STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET (SECTION 30). CALL TOM 232-o348. 
LOST· N.Y. DRIVER'S LICENSE. CALL TOM 232-o348. 
FOUND: STUDENT FOOTBAU TICK­ETS AFTER THE COLORAD.O GAME (9­22-84). TO CLAIM PLEASE CALL THE NOTRE DAME LOST AND FOUND 239­
5036. 
LOST: A GERMAN SHEPARD. BLACK MALE WITH CLIPPED EAR, AMHERST MA TAGS. CAU CARMEN AT 6580. 
LOST: WHITE WINDBREAKER/JACKET W/BLUE & RED COLLAR IN LAFORTUNE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL TERRY AT 283· 
1991. 
LOST: GOLD RING WITH GARNET STONE. PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 283· 12721F FOUND. 
LOST ONE BOTILE OF J.D. ON SECOND FLOOR P.W. SAT. NIGHT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL SLUGGO AND ASSOCIATES AT 2985 
LOST: Calc 125 Text Book at South Dining Hall. If found, please call BRIAN at 2561. 
WANTED 
Need Miami lix. GA and/or Student. $$ Call3274 
NEED RIDE TO INDY FRIDAY,OCT. 5TH. CAU THERESA 3888 
Ride to Denver needed for fall break. call Anne 284-5076 
F ROOMMATES WANTED BARB 277· 7566 
PILOTS WANTING TO FORM AN AERO­CLUB CONTACT STEVE AT 4125 
WANTED: Female vocatisVguitarist for forming band. Looking for the next Chrissie Hynde. Call 2651. 
I 
Monday, October 1, 1984-page 8 
The SMC tennis teamfinishedfifthinitsowneight­team invitational this weekend. The University of Toledo won the meet with 56 points, and Marquette University was second with 40. Ball State finished with 38, Bowling Green with 34 and the Belles with 31. Depauw, Xavier and DePaul were sixth, seventh and eighth, respectively. -The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting tomorrow night at 6:30 at the boathouse. The Obseroer 
The ND field hockey team won one and tied one in a tri-meet at Alumni Field this weekend. The Irish tied Eastern Michigan University, 2-2, on Friday after two overtimes and a flick­off and beat Dayton, 7-1, on Saturday. In the third game, EMU beat Dayton, 3-1, after two overtimes and a flick-off. -The Obseroer 
The ND women's cross-country team finished seventh in a field of 14 teams in the National Catholic Invita­tional at the Burke Memorial Golf Course this weekend. The top finisher for the Irish was Mary Robertson, who was eighth overall with a time of 18:28. Julia Merkel was second for Notre Dame in 
20:07. The Irish will travel to Anderson College next Saturday to compete in the Anderson Invitational. -The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Women's Golf Club will be meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. at Corby Hall. Team practice is can­celled. For more information, call Jane or Father Knoll. -The Obseroer 

Meet 
continuedfrom page I 2 

had the top two runners and a third runner finished lOth. The Warriors were hurt because their fourth place runner was 29th and their fifth run­ner placed 43rd. 
Team effort, along with amazing consistency, enabled the Irish to win. One fine example of this team­work was displayed by Tim Cannon. At the four-mile mark Cannon caught up with Bill Courtney, who was struggling and tiring. Cannon of­fered encouragement and told Courtney to run strong the last mile. Because of this help, Courtney was able to regroup and finish as the top Irish runner. 
The field was divided into two divisions: a university division and a college division. St. Thomas of St. Paul, Minn., easily won the college division with only 26 points, easily 
outdistancing  a  second  place  St.  
Joseph's squad,  which scored  69  
points.  

The Irish must now prepare for the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 
5. The field, which includes a tough Michigan team, will be even tougher than the competition in the National Catholic Meet. Therefore, Notre Dame must continue to run consis­tently and as a team in order to stay successful. 
The Obserr•er N01r<: Dam.: offi~T. locatnl on th< third floor of l.aFortunt· Student C<:ntcr. ac~Tpls classified adv.:rtising from l) a.m. until ·I p.m.. ~onday through friday !be Obserr•er Saim Mary's offin·. located on the third floor of Haggar Collcgl' C.:nt.:r, acc<:pls classitkds from 12:.~0 p.m. until-~ p.m.. ~!on­day though Friday. fkadlin<: for n<:xt-day dassiticds is 5 p.m. All classificds must ht· prl'paid. <:i!hl'f in pl'rson <ir hy mail. Charge is I 0 n·nt' per fin· <·harac­
ltors a day. 

GOING WEST? I need a ride to WA or OR NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL KATHY AT during fall break. Please call BRIAN 2561. 2906. 
NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL JOHN AT 2246 Need ride to t.U.Btoominglon Oct 5 SMC· OR 1296. Sarah 5180 Need Miami Tix! Will pay big bucks! Call 234-5545. endad 
.............................. 
I NEED2MIAMI GA'S. CALL DAVE D.AT 
FOR SALE 
1606. 

NEED 1 PENNSTATEGA, CALL STEVE FOR SALE LARGE PORTABLE FM/5-277-5031 BANO/STEREO CASSETTE PLAYER/REC GREAT COND. ALL Need 5-6 GA's for !he Oct 13th Air Force SPECS. CALL 277-0191 Game. Will Pay in cash. Call Anne 5253 (SMC) FOR SALE PAIR ALTEC MODEL 19 STUDIO LOUDSPEAKERS CALL 277· 
WANTED! WANTED! WANTED! 0191 
-4 G.A. tlcketa to the South Cllrollna football ga~me on October 20. 2 AIR FORCE TIX. CALL 233·2163. Willing to ull lhlrM of I.B.M. IIOCk to 
finance dMI. Cllll Mllrk W. It 283-2045 Have 20 MIAMI GA's for sale. Call 232-01'23.5313. 0801 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR S. CAR. Call 277­for sate: 2 Air Force GA's and 2 Miami 3652after6. GA's call 284-5025 ······················· I need 2 AIR FORCE lix call 1589 or 2885 FOR SALE: 2 MIAMI GA'S ON THE 40. ask for CHAPIN BEST OFFER. CALL JIM 1246. I NEED MIAMI & ANY HOME GAME FOR SALE;TWO COCKATIELS,ONE GAS. 272-6306 WHITE,ONE GREY PLUS LARGE CAGE.AND FOOD.$125.00 CALL. 289­
Need 5 South Carolina G.A's!! Will pay 4454. ENOAO ANY reasonable or unreasonable price!! 
Call Chuck at 277-6398 or 239-7673. 

································································ 
.............................. ................................. 
DESPERATE!! DESPERATE!! DESPER­
ATE!! FOR 1 MIAMI STUDENT TICKET!! WILL PAY$$!! CALL LINDA 277-6856 

I. TICKETS ~ 
·····'···········································~············· 

Need 1 MIAMI GA . Will pay$$. call Lisa at 3HELP HELP HELP 1915. 
I need one Miami Student Ticket!! I have AIR FORCE TIX need GA's or stud call one South Carolina Student ticket for Tom sale. Please call Tracy or Cars at 284· 5185. WILL TRADE 2 GA AIR FORCE OR 2 GA 
PENN FOR 2 GA MIAMI. 283-4233. 

FACT: The Air Force game is coming up soon. TIX! NEED 2 FOR MIAMI, MANY FOR FACT: Two people I know are coming up SO. CAR. ($)HELP($) KEVIN ]3024 soon. • FACT: They don't have tickets, but want Getting DESPERATE FOR MIAMI TICK­to see !he game. ETS (4311) FACT: I need two tickets. FACT: My name is MATI.I carry a badge. NEED 1 MIAMI ST!.JDENTTICKET. WILL CONCLUSION: If you don't call 2577 PAY HANDSOMELY. CALL BRIAN AT soon and sell me two GA's to !he Air Force 2473 OR 2448. GO AHEAD MAKE MY game, I'm going to do something terrible DAY. to your dog. 
Rich YuppiM need Miami GAs. Call Tom NEEDED:4 SCGA'sand4 STUDtix. Call at 1582. Money, money, money, money. 1250 
Need 5 South Carolina G.A.'s. Will pay 

I NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET-Student or ANY reasonable or unreasonable price. GA·willing to pay BUCKS $$$$. Call · Call Chuck at 277-6398 or 239-7673. Frank at 2043. 
FOR SALE: TWO 45 YD. LINE MIAMI Help! We need MIAMI lix. Call Rob 1784 GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 10/3. CALL Kathy4071 3572 
Yo, I need a whole bunch of Air Force tick· NEED 2 MIAMI TIX-STUD/GA CALL ets. I'm talkong large quantities. Vast 2852 amounts. Lots and lots of 'em. Can we talk? Call the Alien at 2538. NEED MIAMI TIX!I Keith 4216 
SOUTH CAROLINA TICKETS 2-4 TICKETS NEEDED FOR AIR FORCE I need some, that's all. Call the Alien at OR MIAMI. JOE 2361 2538. 
HELP!!! NEED 2 SO.Carolina GA's I NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL BRIAN 3677. Please call PAUL: 4006 
NEEDED 2 GA'S FOR PSU GAME. WILL PAY!!!I TO SELL 1 STUDENT TIC FOR SO. CAROLINA PLEASE CONTACT JODIE 1669 
...................................... 
I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR THE S. CAROLINA GAME DESPERATELY !!! $$$$$ Will Pay Well $$$$$ Call Cliff at 4511 NOW! 
......................... Need 1 or 2 Miami Tics.Call Heidi at 232­0438 
PLEASE!! This the first and only chance for my parents to see a Notre Dame fool· ball game (I'm a senior). I need tix for the Miami game. Kathleen x3605. Thanks. 
$$$Desperate!! Need 2 GA tix for all homegames and 1 Stu.!ix. Call Patty at 5254SMC 
Need 1 Miami GA. Call Janet at 284-4340 
SEND A SCHLEPPER TO THE MIAMI GAME: Will pay big bucks for one lousy ticket. Cs/1 Jeff Chou at 3347. SPECIAL BONUS: ONE FREE AIDE ON THE L· TRAIN. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
................................................... 
ALANON/ALA TEEN Is alcohol a problem in you~ family? Are you affected by some­one else's drinking? Maybe we can help Call 2395085 
HEY LISTEN! Three researchers from the planet Vlimfskik are coming to earth to study the socialaclivities and recreation patterns of human beings. They absolutely must see a Notre Dllme football game! However, their spaceship will only be here on No­vember 17, the day of the PENN STATE game. They need three G.A.s. Please call Mary (!heir human contacl) at 1333 if you want to further the cause of science and inter-species understanding. Vtimfskik thanks you. 
W11 thlt rMIIy Mllrk Erik we IIW gil­ling pulled over on the Chlcego Skyway??? And did he rMIIy give the cop not $5 but $10 to forget the whole thing???? And whet' a worM lathe cop tooklt!!ll 
ALCOHOL DISCUSSION/LECTURE Dr. Vann Smith LIBRARY AUDITORIUM Tuesday Oct. 2 8:00 PM Take a study break and come join in For more info call ·counseling & Psych Services Center 239 
7336 
SMC/NO SUMMER PROGRAMS-­LONDON AND ROME--TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTLAND. FRANCE, GER· MANY, AND SWITZERLAND. COURSES IN ART, BUSINESS, EOU· CATION, ENGLISH, ITALIAN, AND HIS· TORY. FIRST MEETING OCT. 3, 7:00 PM, RM 232 MOREAU (ST. MARY'S). SLIDES, PIZZA, ETC. FOR INFO CALL 284-4460 OR 272-3726 (PROF. BLACK). 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Ray and Pete senal 3. Pete, did you get your shaft bent? Ray the latest odds are for you to make it through December, maybe. 
SKIDDERS ARE GODS AMONG MERE MORTALS. 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS ORDER CORSAGES AND WRAPPED FLOWERS IN ADVANCE IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER. NY. LEAVING 10/20 AND RETURNING 10/28. CALL FRANK AT 1422. 
Beat on the brat Beat on !he brat Beat on !he brat with a baseball bat Oh yeah 
-The Ramones 
ANASTASIA IS A FLAKE! 
To a wild D1llu women: Dolt Up! 
Dear Mom, 
Just checking to see if you ever read !he personals. Thanks for the food! Tess loved the brownies. 
Bill 
Hey, Ann 0'Melley 
How's your BMOO? 
TESS A victim of her own provocative beauty' 
HEY SPORT (MDC): Thanks for coming to visit!!! I Love You... SPORTNIK. 
LIKE...ANYONE WANNA FORM A SUB· CULTURE? JOIN US.. WE DON'T HAVE MEETINGS, WE DON'T HAVE DUES, BUT LIKE WE REFUSE TO ACCEPT WINTER. ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING THIS CASUAL CLIQUE MUST WEAR SHORTS ON TUESDAY. BE 
A.A. W.! (Refuse to Accept Winter) 
HEY MACINTOSH USERS! It's still no! too late to join the MllcCiub. Slop by the computer store and pick up a membership form !I 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED CALL THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE 272-4453 MON-THU 8·11PM FRI-SAT 8PM-1AM 
HAPPY 8-DAY PATIYI YOU FOOT­LOOSE HOOVER! 
"Creepy" Creely Can't Beat it.. Gotta Love II... Ain't that !he Truth! Love and Kisses 

The Observer Monday, October 1, 1984 -page 9 
Kicking game a career of constant ups, downs 

Mike Gann and the Irish defense were breathing down the necks ofthe Ttgers all day Saturday, and they got close enough to sack Tiger quarterbacks Marlon Adler and Warren Settz each once. 
However, tt all came down to Brad Burditt's missed field goal. 

Bell runs for 144 yards 

Buffalo falls to Indianapolis, 31-17 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
COJ.lJMIIIA. Mo. When a plan:kickt·r makes his appearance in a football game, all eyes quickly lwgin 10 focus in his direction. But along with the ohviou~ attention comes a <.'ertain amount of mind­ht·nding tension with which the kicker must learn 10 deal. 
Ft·atured in the attention factor lilr a kicker is the satisfaction associ­ated with succt·ssfully splitting the uprights or the frustration which come~ from missing. 
Saturday afternoon at Missouri's Faurot l'idd, Notre Dame'sJohn Car­ney was ahk to enjoy tht· satisfac­tion of success. His three field goals and an extra point accounted for ten of Notre Dame's 16 points in the 16­14 victory. 
Missouri's Brad Burditt, on the other hand, had to cope with the frustration. He saw his chance to he a hero slip abruptly away when his 39-yard attempt at the game­winning field goal dropped two feet short of the crossbar with just seven seconds remaining. 
"I fl:el sorry for him as an individ­ual," said Carney. "As a kicker, I know how he feels. But, just the same, I wouldn't have wanted him to make them (Missouri) the winners and us the losers." 
Carney's first field goal of the game came with just less than three minutes to play in the first quarter and Notre Dame trailing 2-0. 'Ibe 2'5­yard hoot got the Irish on the scoreboard and gave them a lead they would never relinquish. 
Carney then added the extra point on Reggie Ward's touchdown, and with Notre Dame leading 10-2 near the midway mark of the second quarter, ht· found the range again. 'Ibis time he let it fly from 44 yards out. 
After the Tigers dug in and held the Irish offense, early in the fourth quarter, head coach Gerry Faust called on Carnt·y for the third time in the game. Once again he was up to the task, and his 37-yard three­pointer put Notre L>ame up 16-8. 
"He did a heck ofa job," said Faust. "He comes through for us when we need him to." 
With Saturday's performance, Carney continued to be perfect in the field goal department. He has hit all five of his attempts thus far in 19H4. His 44-yard effort against the Tigers is now his longest of this young season. 
After the game, the sophomore from Jupiter, Florida said that kick-· ing field goals is just a part ofhis job. 
"None of today's kicks were real pressure kicks," he added. "Making them is just something I should he able to do." 
Carney does not gloat over his success. Instead he quickly attri­butes much of it to the depth of the Notre Dame specialty teams and the competition brought about by this factor. 
"I have to complement Pat Chura, because he puts a lot of pressure on me to perform," he says. "He is a very close second, and with Hal Von Wyl, we have three kickers who could kick on a college team." 
After handling only kickoffs in '83, the graduation of MikeJohnston has put Carney in his first full-time role as a Notre Dame placekicker. So far, he has yet to be tested in a situation like Missouri's Burditt was faced with on Saturday. But he says he is eagerly awaiting the chance to show what he can do. 
"I would have been excited to be out there (in Burditt's position)," he said. "It's the optimum situation for a kicker. We practice like that -like every kick is for the game. You have to face it some day." 
Carney's consistent kicking was certainly a key factor in Saturday's victory. If he can continue in his present form, his value to the team may become even more apparent in the crucial games still ahead. 
Associated Press Kush. "We told them to explode off the ball in the second half. "Some of our best plays are when INDIANAPOUS -The Indianapolis we give the backs a straight-away 
Colts had boasted the second-best rushing average in the National Football League, and Coach Frank Kush knew some adjustments were desperately needed after a net gain of just IS yards on the ground in the first half of Sunday's 31-17 victory over Buffalo. 
" We were very concerned a~ halftime," Kush said after the second-half rally accounted for 173 ofthe Colts' net 188 rushing yards. 
"We were very pathetic with our running game in the first half. We couldn't come off the ball. So we changed our blocking up front and decided to go right at them," said 

Flanker Reggie Ward accounted for 74 of those yards when Beuerlein caught him downfield for ND's only touchdown of the day. 

NEED AN IDEA FOR A FUND RAISER?? 
I have a great Item for the Fall/Winter seasons. Very useful, and a terrific 
self-seller. High Commission Wages. Call Deal Enterprises 

234-3459 

(Please don't hesitate to leave a message with my answering machine.) 
Thank-You. Mr. D. Logan 
shot," he said. 
The Colts' 1-2 punch of Curtis Dickey and Randy McMillan, who had combined for 128 of the team's I '58-yard rushing average going into the game, had a net 13 yards at halftime. 
But McMillan charged the slug­gish ground game with 114 yards and a pair of second-half touch­downs to lead the comeback against the winless Bills. 
''I'm impressed with the way we came back," said Kush. "McMillan ran extremely hard." 
The Colts had trailed the Bills 17­lO before McMillan's first touch­down, a 1 0-yard run late in the third period. 
Buffalo Coach Kay Stephenson, asked what happened to the Bills' defense during the Colts' rally, said, "lbat's a good question. We just made too many mistakes and had too many penalties. 





Mizzou 
continuedfrom page 12 
zou 26. 
Notre Dame's running game had its problems for the fourth straight game. Missouri's big defensive line would not allow the Irish offensive front to open any holes. Irish run­ning backs totalled only I04 yards. 
Pinkett was especially frustrated. Of his 62 yards, 20 of them came when he found daylight on a sweep in the third quarter. 
"Their defense won a lot of the battles on the line," Pinkett ob­served. "When I broke free, the first time 1was out in the open this year, I got pretty excited and didn't know how to handle it." 
Faust knows that the great perfor­mance of Beuerlein will help to open up the ground game. 
"We're going to have to block bet­ter," Faust said. "We'll also start throwing more so teams stop keying our running game." 
If Carney was the hero, then Beuerlein came In a close second. 
The sophomore signal caller com­pleted 16 of 2'5 attempts for 256 yards. He was intercepted twice, once on a deflection in which a de­fensive taackle ended up with the ball. 
Freshman Tim Brown caught five passes, although he also dropped three sure completions. Injuries also have played a major factor in the make-up of the receiver lineup. 
"It was the same defense we used in the first half, but when you have two good backs like McMillan and Dickey, you have to stay with them every play." 
Greg Bell, a rookie out of Notre Dame, sparked Buffalo's rushing game with 144 yards, and quarter­back joe Dufek, making his first NFI. start in place of injured veteran Joe Ferguson, ran for one touchdown and passed for another to give the Bills the early lead. 
"We were determined to take the ball right at them," Stt"phenson said. "We wanted to take the pressure off our passing game. Bell has the ability to do that, and he showed it. 
"Dufek played tremendously. He showed a lot of poise and confi­dence for not having taken any snap from center before," the Buffalo coach said. 
Ferguson's status for next week's game against Philadelphia is still un­
certain,  Stephenson  said.  In­ 
dianapolis plays Washington  next  
week in the Hoosier Dome.  

On defense, Mikl' Kovaleski led 
the way with I '5 tackles. Kovaleski 
had to leave the game with a strained 
back, but returnetl later to the 
injury-riddled Notre Dame defense. 
Gann totalled ll. tackles, with 
Kleine picking up I I. John McCabe, 
working in relief of Furjanic, added 
10. 
With the defense improving, and the offense using a the passing game to inject some life into the running game, things arc looking optimistic for the Irish after their first "big" win of the season. 
S.rurday'r; Gam~ 
Notre l>amc .~ 10 o .i -16 
Mi~!WUri ~ 0 () 6 -... 
Scortna 
MlJ -Safc:ry, Plnk.cntackkll by l.c~hc In cndzonc 
ND-FG Carnoy 2~ 
Nl>-Ward'" paM from Bcut'rlein ( Carnry kkk) 
ND-FG Carnoy H 
Mll-HtJI I~ P""" lrom Adkr ( Pa .. tatkd) 
Nil-F<; Carnoy 37 
Mll -Drain 2 run (run latlod) NO MU 
Flntdowm 18 l5 
Ru5hlng attcmpL,. 38 t\3 
Net Yards Ru~lng I~ 272 
Net Yard" Passing 280 Itil 
PIMa comp-•nrmptcd 17-26 12-22 
ttad lntrrccptcd I 
Total Net Yudti .\8~ ~H 
Fumbln·losl 3·0 2·2 
Pcnallln-y.rd"i 8-72 ~-~0 
Punt.'i·averaJlC ~-~1.~ ~-H.2 
lndiYidual Leackn 
RUSHJN(j -Notre Oamc: Plnlv:tt 20-62; Bcucrlcln 6· 
28; Smith ~-10; Brook> ~-~;jdkn•on 2·3;Jocbon I·( ~ ); Ml....,..rt llratn 2~·120; ~IZ 12-t\9; Boyd 12-~8; Adkr I 0-19; Barbooa ~-1 ~; Honry I · I; 
PASSING -Notre Dame: 8currlctn 16--2~·2,2\6; Ptnk~n l·l·O.Z"'~ Mlqourl: A.dl~r 10·18,1,\~;Sdu l· 
3·0,H; Hill 0·1·0,0; 
RECEMN<i-Nolte Damc:jac.:k.~n ~-76; Ward 1·7 ...; Brown '5·'59; Bavaro 1·11§6; Plnkctl 2·1'5; MtMouri· O.vil ~-82; Hill 3-~6; Shonhu.e 2·20; Pey1on 2·13; 
Aucndancc -70,91 ~ 


~----------------------------------~-----------------------­
The Observer 
Record stands at 7-4 
SMC makes good tourney showing 
ByKELLYPORTOLESE nents. Saint Mary's had that extra Sports Writer ounce of effort needed to win the long volleys. Sophomore Patty Wil­
The Saint Mary's volleyball team liams contributed eight service turned in an excellent performance points in game one. Senior Ann Saturday as the Belles hosted their Boutton also kept the Huskies on annual Invitational Tournament in their toes throughout the match the Angela Athletic Facility. The with some key quick hits from the Belles swept their first three middle blocker position. Tech im­matches of the day from Michigan proved their defense in game two Technological College, Rosary Col­but it was not enough to stifle the lege and Manchester College before determined Belles. falling to a very talented and even­In the second match of the day tual tournament champion Elmhurst Saint Mary's defeated Rosary College Volleyball Club in the playoffround. by identical scores of 1 5-ll. Sopho­
The Belles opened action against more Kathy Copeland paced the Michigan Tech who traveled down Belles in game one with some all­from the Upper Peninsula for the around good hustle along with some tourney. Saint Mary's took the key hits. Junior Rita Schubert's ex­Huskies in two games, 1 5-5, 15-8, cellent passes and consistent serving but had to fight for every point from also aided the Belles cause. the scrappy Tech team. 
In the end, however, the Belles Next up for Saint Mary's was fel­just seemed to outclass their oppo-low NAIA member Manchester. 


Soccer 
continuedfrom page 12 
Dom at midfield positions," Grace said, "and my thinking there would be to involve them more in the of­fense. Hopefully, when they go back 
to  the  defender  role, they'll  still  
think  about  contributing  of­ 
fensively."  

Grace also explained that a defender can play better defense by understanding the things an attacker will try to do. 
"In other words, Dom's always played a back, but if he goes to play midfield or he goes to play striker and understands the roles of those positions better, when he goes back to defense he'll be able to counter what a forward does." 
The Irish forwards certainly knew what to do in the game yesterday, as three strikers accounted for the other six Notre Dame goals. 
Dave Miles scored his fourth goal of the year at 21:18 when Puma goalkeeper Louis DelaVega tapped a save right to the Notre Dame striker eight yards in front ofthe goal. Miles simply had to place the ball in the other side of the goal, out of Dela Vega's reach for the score. Later, Miles completed the Notre Dame scoring at 62:49 with his second goal ofthe day. 
In between Miles' goals, however, two other Irish players tallied. Fresh­man john Fossella scored his fourth goal of the season, and sophomore Pat Szanto registered the first Notre Dame hat trick ofthe year. The goals 
brought Szanto's season total to lllllimolrllroiiwlllaltiiiSIIt.IIIFIIIr•an•cllisll.•••••••••••••••••••..
nine. 
sists yesterday, as did MacDonald and Bill Gross. Szanto now is the scoring leader for Notre Dame this

Miles and Szanto also recorded as-~~I~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~]~~~~~~~
year with 23 points. The Pumas managed only four shots on goal during the game, but oneofthemwasgoodforagoal. The 
scoring play was the result of poor defense by the Irish, andJoe Dawalt scored a sloppy goal for St. Joseph's when the Notre Dame defense was unable to clear the ball from In front of the goal. The score carne at 37:51 of the first half. . Notre Dame had 40 shots in the game, and Puma goalkeepers were forced to make 19 saves. Mark Steranka and Jim Flynn each made one goal save for the Irish. On Friday night, Notre Dame out­played DePaul on a cold, rainy night under Cartier's lights. The Irish took a 6-0 lead before giving up a goal with only 14:15 remaining in the game. 
Need LSU Tix 
Call collect eves. 
504·291·0642 
• l' ~'-4 t fl I I I I ••• I • • • .... .t 
Szanto scored twice and had one assist Friday, and Miles and Fossella also recorded goals. Junior john Gibbs scored with an assist from Martin Mangialardi, and senior tri­captain Rich Herdegen racked up the 49th goal of his career at Notre Dame. 
Despite the lopsided games of the weekend, Grace was not entirely pleased with his team's perfor­mance. He was particularly upset that the Irish were unable to shutout their opponents. 
"I'm really concerned," Grace said yesterday. "I have a real hard time convincing this team that against less-talented teams you have to play defense. They seem to think you only have to play defense against the best teams. There's no way that team (St. joseph's) should score on us. There's no way that team (DePaul) should have scored on us Friday." 
Grace was so concerned about the defense yesterday that he ran the Irish through more than an hour of drills after the game. The brief practice session was designed to 1m­prove individual defense in pressure situations. 
"The way we play team defense," the Irish coach explained, "if one of our players does not play his role, it's felt through the rest ofthe team." 
Grace admits that his style ofplay is very demanding, but he is con­vinced a tight man-to-man defense is the best defense. If he is able to get his team to play that defense well, the Irish certainly will be able to gain several victories in the next few weeks. 
Notre Dame's next match is to-
MONDAY, OCTOBER 29 7:30 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $1311 TICKETS AVAilABLE AT THE A. C. C. BOX OFFICE, SEARS (UNIVERSITY PARK MALL, ELKHART, MICHIGAN CITY), ROBERTSON'S (SO. BEND, TOWN AND COUNTRY AND CONCORD MALL), ELKHART TRUTH, J.IR.'S MUSIC 
SHOP (LA  ST. JOSEPH BANK (MAIN OFFICE),  
..::...">  WORLD RECORD (GOSHEN), MUSIC  
0....­ MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR), AND  
'<J~· O~  KARMA RECORDS (FT. WAYNE)  

Hard hitting was displayed from both sides of the net, which pro­vided for some very exciting play. The Belles held the upper edge, however, and once again pulled out the victory by scores of 15-11, 15­11. 
Teamwork was the name of the game as setters Mary Dilenschneider and Anne Williard kept the Spartan blockers guessing as they dished off sets to any of three available front row hitters. Freshman Kara Tekulve continued to allude the Manchester defense with her sideline spikes. When the game got tight sophomore Ann Brown kept the Belles momen­tum going with very effective ser­ving. 
With these three decisive victories behind them, Saint Mary's moved into the semi-final round, facing the Elmhurst Volleyball Club. The Belles gave their opponent all it could handle before finally losing in three games, 6-1 5, 16-14 .and 10-15. 
In game one it looked as if the Belles might be overpowered by Elmhurst's strength. Their hits not only came down hard but were also often strategically placed. 
In the second game, however, the tide turned drastically. Down by the scores of 8-2, 11-4 and 14-8, the Bdles, with their "never say die" at­titude, kept chipping away at the Elmhurst lead and made a dramatic comeback to take the game 16-14. Boutton, senior Molly Baker and sophomore Mary Reidy made some kills at critical points in the game and freshman Erin Smith, Williard and Tekulve had some nice defen­sive saves. 
In game three the Belles came out fighting again. Freshman Mary Carole Feldman played an excellent game with some crucial hits and blocks at mid-game with the score 9-8 -Elmhurst. Saint Mary's contin­ued to play smart volleyball throughout the rest of the match, but the more experienced Elmhurst team outlasted the Belles and went on to win, 15-10, before advancing to the finals. 
Coach Brian Goralski was pleased 
with the way the team played Satur­
day. The Elmhurst Club was com­
prised of members of last year's 
NCAA Division lii championship 
team and the Saint Mary's coach said 
it was good experience for the 
Belles to be up against such tough 
competition and do so well. 
Saint Mary's record now stands at 
an impressive 7-4 mark. They will 
take this record to Tri-State tomor­
row, Oct. 2, at 6:30 p.m. in the An­
gela Athletic Facility. 
Monday, October 1, 1984-page 10 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team raised its record to 7-4 over the weekend at its annual Invitation Tournament, defeating Mic­higan Technological, Rosary and Manchester Colleges before fal­ling to eventual tournament champion Elmhurst in the semi-final round. Kelly Portolese describes Saturday's action at left. 
Grad student Matousek wins Domer Six Race 
ByDE~SCORHlGAN 
Sports Writer 
Graduate student Paul Matousek was the top finisher in Saturday's fourth annual Domer Six-Mile Race, coming in with a time of 31:11. Finishingsecond wasjohn Wright in a time of31:39followed closely by Daniel Ryan 'who had a time of 32 minutes flat. 
In its innaugural run, the Domer Three was won in a time of 15:58 by Bob Bligh, an undergraduate. Kevin Pendergast finished second with a time of 16:38. Hot on his heels in third place was Matt Beuer­lein with a time of 16:56. 
The top undergraduate finisher in the Domer Six was Jeff Wes­thoven who had a time of 32:37. Westhoven finished fourth overall and has won the men's undergraduate division the last three years. The top women's undergraduate finisher was Coleen Donnally who placed 53rd overall in a time of 40:08. Mary Robertson, a graduate student, was the top women's overall winner (12th out of all finis­hers) with a time of 35:17. 
In the faculty/staffcategory, the top male finisher was Andre Bar­bera who had a time of 35:36, and the winner in the women's division with a time of56:35 was Ginny Dir. In the Domer Three, the winner in the men's faculty/staff division was women's assistant bas­ketball coach Greg Bruce with a time of 24:22. Finishing first in the women's division was his wife Lila Bruce in a time of 24:04. 

PIZZERIA AND PUB 
130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 


277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 


1 -------------------------Monday 1 Wednesday • Sunday
I I I 
I I I I 
I I I I 

I$'6~ 95 i $'6~ 95 I$6~ 95 I 
I I I II Call before 11 I Call before 11 ICall before 9:30 I 
1 I I I
I I ! Jl
EXPIRES 1011184 EXPIRES 1013184 EXPIRES 1017184 
~------------------------­
~ 
'-~ • ' • • ' 



~t(Jt4tllC3L~-----------------------------------------M--o.nd_a_y_,_o_c.to_b_e_r_l_._l_9_84----p-ag_e 
ll 

Doonesbury 
1

~t!W.I-00
Y&AH, ~~ 
Yf!AH, 
Y&AH . .
' -! =v ><-:c
__.J 
~ OKAY,­ClJI; 7H!3 PHON&! 

fi'CEP WITH II SKYKOCK6TING POff/IA170N Of ROAM/Nf!J, I?IIVI!:NOII~ 'MIN/-Cilll't N£W~ CREWS TI{Y/Nfl 1D F£EP OfF WO trmt NEW5, 111€ PEPT. Of THE INTEl?/OR 1VP1IY 
llNNOIJNctP II 'THINNIN& • 


..._........_........._..... ___........._...... ___· 
Garry Trudeau 


Campus
JUSTtucNIJERJNG 
IF TH&Re IAJ45 ANYTHING I 

~lNG! 
~INe! 
couw /X) 70 
•7 & 9 p.m. -FUm, "Hamlet," Engineering

~ 
/'HttP. 
Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Shakespeare Club. 


TV Tonight 

Bloom County 
(,()(){l ~folfN(,. 
THIS IS 'EY€W!TNES5 
N!W5~ 
I 

Psychochicken 

Octavio 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
!O:OOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. 
12:30 a.m. 
I:OOa.m.

''1he boss wants his money, see? Or next lime II wan1 be just your living room we rearrange." 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  40 Like some  DOWN  
1 Tread  fabrics  1 Sandal or clog 
5 Famous violin  43 Binge  2 Use a stop­ 
10 Movie dog  45 Single time  watch  
14 Conceal  46 Cure-all  3 Alpine flower  
15 Heath  4 Porker's place  
16 Singer Vikki  48 Blouse  5 Legislative  
17 Auspice  51  Cocktail  body  
18 Pungent flower  53 Decorated in a  6 Merchant  
20 Sniggler's  way  7 Stair part  
catch  8 Perform  

6:00p.m. 
Berke Breathed 


6:30p.m.
5TIItmN6 10NI6HT, lltiY 'MINI-CAWCREWS FOUNP t-005€ Wit./.. 8E C/..I/88Eil, SKINN!fl ANI? THEIR INTCRNII~ (}f(GfW5 
7:00p.m. 

~P AS AfHROP/51/lCS 
IN CHINA. 
8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 

28 Ms. Turner 
30 Sphere 

32 Command to a horse 
48 Dried dishes 57 Is under the 49 Chameleon weather 50 Of a bone 
58 Ivy League 52 Fall flower 
school 60 High hill 54 Oscar-Renta 61 Ripen 

Friday's Solution 

21 Walk In water 9 Smear 37 Alphabet start
55 Season22 Spring back 

1 0 Put into motion 38 Skelton's 23 Restaurant 11 Eva Marie -hayseed 56 Utter 
59 Christmas

personnel 12 Armistice 41 Word of praise 
flower26 Reduced 

13 Ready for war to God 27 Slim 
61 -Minor 

19 In judge's attire 
29 Meter man? 62 Verve 42 Those opposed 
21 Extending over 31 Pine Tree State 
63 Loamy deposit 43 State of
a large area 32 Lapel flower 24 Landers or agitation 

©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/1/84
64 Dupe36 Printer's Jillian All Rights Reserved measures 65 Ten: pref. 

25 Box with 44 Criticize 37 Sour 66 Fr. decree caution 46 Laud 9/29/84 39 Commercials 67 Being: Lat. 27 Merganser 47 Finally 33 Spring 
flower 34 -fixe 35 Cruising 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
16 M0 A0 S0 H 22 Family Feud 
16 TV Bloopers & Practical jokes 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 28 Call To Glory 
16 johnny Carson 22nd Anniversary 
22 28 34  Movie · Passions Football ­Cincinnati Odyssey  Pittsburgh  
34  Heritage  
16 22 34  NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Nuclear National Park  

16 late Night With David Letterman 22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 34 The Greatest lakes 
28 Newswatch 28 34 Movie -Gunga Din 
16 late Night With David Letterman 28 ABC News Nightllne 
28 Love Connection 
16 Allin The Family 
22 Nigluwatch 


' as w w lac Jj 
Student Activities Board 



RECORD STORE 

In LaFortune 
Stop by and check it out!I 


WANTED: 
Student Players producerI director 
for Spring Production April18, 19, 20 

Applications available: 2nd floor LaFortune Application deadline: Oct.12 
Monday, October 1, 1984 -page 12

SRorts 
Irish escape with 16-14 victory over Missouri 

When Eric Drain ofMissouri went up the middle onfourth-and-one, allbefound was Irish defensive tackle Mike Gann as Notre Dame finished off a first-quarter goalltne stand. Notre Dame ended up 
Grace experiments with positioning 
ND soccer wins two over weekend 
ByPHILWOLF 7-1, yesterday on Alumni Field. Asststant Sports Edttor Notre Dame's record now stands at 8-1-2. 
The Notre Dame soccer team dominated its two opponents this Notre Dame wasted no time weekend, as the Irish outscored taking control of the game yester­DePaul and St. joseph's/Rensselaer day, and the Irish held the ball in the by a combined total of 13-2. Pumas' half of the field for most of 
The Irish defeated the Blue the first period. They took several Demons, 6-1, Friday night on Cartier shots in the first few minutes of the Field, and they trounced the Pumas, game, and senior tri-captain 

Notre Dame dominates National Catholic Meet 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 

As in any sport, teamwork and consistency are key ingredients for success in cross-country. The Notre Dame men's cross-country team dis­played these two qualities in win­ning the National Catholic Meet held last Friday at Notre Dame. 
The Irish amassed only 57 points (low score wins), while Boston Col­lege was second with 81 points and Marquette closely followed with a third place total of 85 points. St. Thomas, in finishing fourth overall and first in the college division, tallied 108 points. 
Keith Hanson of Marquette led the I 50-man field the entire race and won easily in a time of 23:44.3 for the five-mile course. Hanson, only a junior and last year's individ­ual titleist, ran alone for most of the race. He so thoroughly dominated the race that he led his teammate Dave Kaluzny by 100 yards at the finish. Kaluzny ran to a fine time of 
24:09.4 and yet finished 25 seconds behind Hanson. 
Notre Dame won the meet be­cause it placed its five scoring run­ners in the top 15. Co-captain Bill Counney led the way for the Irish with a time of 24:17.4, good for seventh place overall. Senior Tim Cannon finished ninth in 24:20.4 while Mike Collins took 12th in a time of 24:31.4. Ed Willenbrink placed 14th in a time of24:35.0 and freshman Dan Garrett followed be­hind with a 15th place time of 24:41.4. 
The other two Notre Dame run­ners did not count in the scoring, but did figure in the displacement of other teams' runners. john Magill ran to a fine 17th place time of 24:55.0, while co-captain Jim Tyler followed right behind in 24:56.2. 
After the meet Notre Dame Coach joe Piane was extremely pleased. "This is the best field we've ever had at the National Catholic Meet," he said. "Boston College is one of the better teams in the East and Mar­quette is very good," Piane said. "Yet, the guys ran terrific and the times were great. It was the first meet in my 1 1 years as coach that we've had seven guys run under 25 minutes." 
The reason for the Irish victory was having seven good runners who could place well. On the other hand, Boston College had the third, fourth, 13th and 16th place runners, but were denied the victory because their fifth runner was all the way back in 45th place. Also, Marquette 
St..,. MEET. page 8 
Dominick Driano finally put one in the net at 14:21. 
Driano, who normally plays sweeper for Notre Dame, was playing as a midfielder when he scored the goal, the first of his career. Striker Pat Szanto assisted Driano with a perfect feed pass. 
Irish Coach Dennis Grace ex­plained afterward why Driano and some of the other backs were playing different positions in the games this weekend. The coach took advantage of the weaker competi­tion to give his players some experi­ence at the offensive positions. 
"We put Stuart (MacDonald), Steve Lowney, jock (Mutschler) and 
see SOCCER, page 10 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
COLUMBIA, Mo. -The Missouri 
Tigers pulled a page out the Notre 
Dame history book, but could not 
provide the power to go with their 
emotion, as the Irish hung on to 
preserve a 16-14 over Mizzou. 
After warming up in its regular 
black home uniforms, Missouri 
stormed onto the field, through a 
column of yellow smoke, sporting 
gold uniforms. The Tigers brought 
out the jerseys in honor of the 50th 
year of former coach and athletic 
director Don Faurot's association 
with Missouri athletics. 
But the Tigers were not the only ones to reach into a bag of tricks. The Notre Dame defense performed some magic of its own, holding the .potent Missouri offense to only 14 
points. 
The welcome Irish surprise on 
defense came despite the fact that 
three of the top five defensive 
linemen were out for most of the 
game. 
"Their were so many obstacles 
against our defense," said an excited 
Gerry Faust. "We had to play with 
three guys on the defensive line the 
whole game and they deserve a lot of 
credit." 
Greg Dingens was lost with a 
separated shoulder in the Colorado 
game, Mike Griffin went down in 
practice last week, and Eric Dorsey 
had to leave the game with an ankle 
problem. That left Mike Gann, Wally 
Kleine and sophomore Mike Kier­
nan to stop the Tiger running of­
fense that was gaining steam as soon 
as Missouri got the ball to start the 
game. 
Junior linebacker Tony Furjanic, 
the leading tackler for the Irish was 
also lost during the game. Furjanic 
suffered a knee injury and will be out 
of the lineup for about five weeks. 
The outcome of the game was in 
doubt until Missouri placekicker 
Brad Burditt missed on a 39-yard at­
tempt with just seven seconds 
remaining. 
With Notre Dame's offense sput­
tering in the fourth quarter, Missouri 
took advantage of some conserva­
tive play-calling by the Irish and held 
the Irish on third down on their own 
39 with 1:16 left in the game. Quar­
terback Marlon Adler connected on 
four passes to move the ball to the 
Notre Dame 22-yard line, setting up 
Burditt's attempt. 
"We really went for the block," 
Faust said. "I thought the pressure we put on him was a big factor." 
Burditt had only missed one field goal from inside the 40 in his career before the kick failed to clear the crossbar. 
"Brad has plenty of leg for a kick like that, but he got underneath the ball," said Mizzou coach Warren 
Powers.  "It  was  right  down  the  
middle, but it di dn't get  over  the  
crossbar."  

Notre Dame's defense set the tone for the game in the first quarter on the first Missouri possession. The Tigers drove the ball within one yard ofthe Irish endzone, only to be denied a score by a scrappy Notre Dame defense that had bent but refused to break. 
Gann stacked up Tiger running back Eric Drain on fourth down at the one-yard line to postpone the hopes of Tiger fans to take an early lead. 
On the next play, however, Allen Pinkett fumbled the ball in the back­field and recovered it in the endzone for a safety. But Missouri quickly duplicated that mistake when start­ing quarterback Warren Seitz tossed a bad pitch to tailback Vernon Boyd, and Troy Wilson came up to recover the fumble at the Missouri 49. 
Sophomore placekicker john Car­ney, who booted three field goals and one extra point in the game, put the Irish on the scoreboard with a 25-yard kick. 
Less than six minutes later, the Notre Dame tallied its first and only touchdown of the game. Steve Beuerlein hit Reggie Ward in stride with a 74-yard strike for six points. 
"The wide-outs told the coaches that they thought they could beat their defensive backs," Beuerlein said. "The coaches called that play twice in a row. The first time I was under a lot of pressure. The second time I just put the ball out there and Reggie came out with it. It must have went throught the defensive back's hands." 
With the coaches muung plays well, the ball kept moving when the Irish got the ball back after the touchdown. But again the Tiger defense held when Pinkett was stopped short ofa first down. 
Carney again walked onto the field and connected on a 44-yard field goal. Notre Dame's only scoring of the second half was a 3 7­yarder after a sack by Gann forced Adler to fumble the ball at the Miz­
see MIZZOU, page 9 

Fullback Chris Smith was held to only 10 yards against Missouri, and Notre Dame in fact could only manage 104 total rushing yards against the 







