Oscars -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 125 tht: intlt:pt:ndt:nt ~tudt:nt new-.papt:r -.en ing notn dame and -.aim m;tn ·., 
TlJESDAY,APRIL 10,1984 

Senior Fellow not named in election 
ByJANE KRA VCIK The Senior Buddy election was CofJ)' Editor won by Harold B. Augustine with ...,8 percent of the 61 7 votes cast. 
A St:nior Fdlow will not be named Augustine had mixed feelings this year bc:caust: only 2S percent of about tht: award. He said, "I think the Sl'nior class voted in the election that it's nice and I'm very happy. I yesterday. wish there hadn't been all ofthe con­
Fifty percent of the class must troversy, though." vote in the election in order for a Augustint: was removed from the winner to be declared. The 2S per­Senior Fellow ballot by tht: Senior cent of the votes which counted as Fellow committee. He became membt:rs of the class voting in­renowned on campus for his com­cluded the write-in votes, which mt:nt "A wet campus is a happy would not have been counted in the campus," made in The Observer final tally. duringJunior Parents Weekt:nd. 
Senior Fellow Committee Chair­Only 34 percent of the senior man Mike james commented, "This class voted in the Senior Buddy elec­is the first time in a number of years tion. Commented Senior Buddy that this award hasn't been given." coordinator Oscar Osorio, "We 
When asked if he thought the were not allowed to set up in dection should be held again, James LaFortune, where the off:campus rt:plied, "I think the issues recdvcd seniors are. Because of this, we feel more than enough publicity; there 34 percent of the vote was a were enough chances to make the mandate." decision. Today, the senior class The other 22 percent of the vote made their decision." was divided among other can­
james did not think the Senior didates. The second highest vote 
The.: O~l·rver/l.c:v Chapt:lsk
Buddy elections also held yesterday getter was Larry "Bud" Melman, an affected the tum-out for the Senior actor noted for his appearances on 

Sean Richardson watches Mary Kay Wilhelm cast voters a Senior Fe/lou• will not be au·arded this year
Fellow election. "As I observed it, The David Letterman Show. 

her vote for the Senior Fellow last night in the North Harold B. Augustine won the elet·tion for Senior Bud 
people were voting for both while According to Osorio, Augustine 

Dining Hall. Because of the low turnout of senior c~y.
they were in the dining hall. I don't will be asked to speak at Senior Bar think that they took away votes." and will be awarded a plaque. 

Proposal to raise activity fee by $5 passed at senate meetin! 
By MIKE MILLEN According to the proposal, $28,000 Committee on Final Examinations, ecutive Coordinator Mike Quinn saying the amendment will probabl News Staff will go directly to campus entertain­will soon be presented to the agreed, saying "I would just as soon be passed by the university. ment, special events, and musical Academic Code Committee. not have it in writing" that a missed In other business, StudLnt Bod 
The student activity fee was raised entertainment. Class funding will Currently, the code states final equaled flunking the course. President Rob Bertino listed topics from $30 to $3S at last night's stu­double, and club funding will in­"unexcused absence from the The senators also asked that final to be discussed at the forthcoming dent senate meeting. The increase crease to approximately S2,000. semester examination will result in exams be worth no more than one­Trustee Meeting. Included on the will go mostly towards Student The plan states,"No funds can be the stud,'l.t'S receiving an 'F.' " The third of the course grade, differing li~r is the adequacy of the tenure Government programs. used for the purchase ofalcohol." taculty version would change the from the faculty's recommendation process, effects of the alcohol 
Lee Broussard, programming Three changes in the Final Ex­policy to "an 'F in the course." The the exams be worth as much as one­policy, and student center renova· board services commissioner for amination section of the Academic senate voted against the change. half. tions. Bertino reported that in tht student activities, said, "We have Code were discussed by the senate. Bob Gleason, judicial coor­The fmal change, that graduating future, an "HPC representative wil decided that dorms don't need Academic Commissioner Mike dinator, said, "I can see myself seniors with 'B' averages no longer report" and inform the senate ofth« money, but the Student Activities Hayes explained that the changes, staying up late studying, ~versleep­be exempt, was unanimously voted decisions made at the Hall Pn:si Board and Student Government do." originally drafted by the Faculty ing, and flunking the course." Ex-against. Hayes expressed doubt, dent's Council meetings. 
Annual 'Peace Week' observed across natio11 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTII thousands ofchildren and mothe News Staff Tomorrow's featured event i prayer st:rvice and slidcshow tit 
The American Catholic Bishops' "Disarming the Heart," which pao;toral letter, "The Challenge of take place at the Grotto at 9:~0 p Peace," sets the tont: for this year's Designed by the Center for So annual Peace With justice Week. Concerns in Washington, D.C., sponsored by the Association of slideshow is meant to servt: a~ Catholic Colleges and Universities "aid to reflecting" on the level (ACCU) in cooperation with the peact:, said Murphy. Center for Social Concerns. On Thursday, professor emer 
The week will bring into focus of Boston Collegt: Gordon Zahn "the Christian duty to foster peace" deliver a lecture on "The Rol• in the heact, in interpersonal Conscience and Personal ResJ relationships and in the internation­sibility in the Bishops' Pastoral al scene, says Social Concerns coor­ter," at 8 p.m. in the Mem• dinator Sharon Murphy. Library auditorium. 
"All across the country, Catholic Zahn, the national director of colleges and universities are observ­Christi USA's Center for Conscil ing this week," said Murphy. "It is and War, conscientiously obje· very, very exciting." to fighting in World War II. He 
The week kicks off with tonight's authored the book, The Life ofF-­lecture on world hunger, delivered jagerstatter -the story ofaGe by Warren Burmeister, the midwest man who took a similar stand in regional director of the United many and was executed for h1 States Committee for UNICEF. The popular position. lecture will begin at 7 p.m. in the The week picks up again at Memorial Library auditorium. p.m. on Sunday, with the CRC 
11M: <>bserver/Lev Chapdsky 
Burmeister traveled to India and Kilometer Hunger Walk, begi•
Student Body President Rob Bertino and Vice Presi­
Sri Lanka in 1983, observing UNICEF at St. joseph High School. 
dent Cathy David seem e1lthralled with the proceed­approved a S5 increase in the activitiesfee. For more 
;programs designed to achieve good
ings a.t last nights student senate meeting. The senate -information see above story. 
health and proper nutrition . for ~-PEACE, page 4 
...... 




The Observer Tuesday, April 10, 1984 -page 2 

Contrary to popular belief, students can affect school policy 



In Brief 
,F_ 
The National Academy ofEngineering 
has ellTted Dr. Roger Schmitz, McCloskey dl·an of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame, as a memhl·r. Schmitz was among SH engineers in the l I.S. and live foreign associates elected on March 30. I k joins the total membership of I, I H"' U.S. engineers and IOS ti>rdgn associates. Schmitz was cited hy the Academy for his leader· ship in chemical reaction engineering, especially in the expcrimen· tal and thl·Orl·tical understanding of stability and oscillation in chemical reactors. -The Ohsen•er 
The National Education Association is 
currt·ntly fighting an asbestos problem in many elementary and secondary schools throughout the nation. The NEA believes this probkm may l'Xtend to colleges and universities. But according to physical plant Director Donald Dedrick, there is "absolutely no as­bestos problem at Notre Dame." Dedrick said all buildings are care­fully watched and whenever signs of a problem develop, the university immediatdy calls in professionals to take care ofit before there is any chance of harm to t'ither students or faculty. -The Ohsen•er 
Of Interest 
Dr. Linda Dondero Hazlett, associate profes­
sor ofanatomy at thl' Waynt· Stall'llnversity Sd10ol of Medicine. will disn1ss "A~e and Rl·sistance to Onllar lnfn:tion" at., tonight in Car­roll llall at Saint Mary's. A I 966 graduate ofSaint Mary's, llazlett b a nornl spedali.,t in diseast·s of tht· eye, and has publishnl over 50 articks on thl· suhjt'l't. ller major research interests concern the immunohiology of the cornea and conjunctiva and responses to in­flTtion and a~ing. Dr. llazktt's lecture, sponsored by the Saint Mary's biology dl·partment, is free and open to the public. -The Ohsert•er 
The Right to Life phone-a-thon for the 
Woml·n's Care Center has bel·n extended. Volunteers arc still nn·ded hl·twet·n 6 and ') p.m., Monday through Thursday in Room 212 in the Administration Building. -The Ohserz•er 
More than 200 members of the Midwest 
Acatlemy of Management, representing 67 colleges and universities and I 0 n>rporations and government agencies, will participate in tht· 27th annual conference beginning Thursday in the Center for Continuin~ Education. The three-day meeting's goal is to foster dialogue among practitioners of management through the presenta­tion of basic and applied completed research papers and ideas. 
The Obserr•er 
The Reilly Lectures in chemical engineering will be today and Thursday. Dr. W. Harmon Ray, professor of chemical l·ngineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, will give the lectures, beginning at 3:30 p.m. on both days in Room 3'56 in the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. -The Obsen'er 
Warren Burn1eister, Midwestern Regional Director for the li.S. Committee of UNICEF, will speak at 7 tonight at the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns as the annual "Peace with Justice" wn·k gets underway. The week, sponsored by the campus World llunger Coalition, lasts from April 9·13. Burmeister's preSl·ntation will involve the theme of llNICEF as a pl·acekceping ti>rce. The local committee for UNICEF is st·eking volunteer mem­bers. For more information, call the Center for Social Concerns at 
2:W·7H62. -The Ohserr•er 
Father Hesburghwill speak on United States immigra­tion rdi>rm tomorrow in the Law School. The lecture is being sponsored by the Social .Justice Forum and is schedukd for I p.m. in Room I 0 I. -The Ohserr•er 


VVeather . 
More Indiana "spring" 
wcatht-r today. 1\lostlr doudy this morning then becoming partly sunny during the after· noon. lli~hs in the uppn <;os. !·air tonight, with lows in 1he upp{'r 50s to around ·tO. -The 0/J. 
sen'er 

The Observer 
Tht· Obst·rver ( I ,.,.,. ~')9 !. 10110) '' 
puhll...twd \l,,nd.l\ throu~h I ru.lot\· .md 
·•11 honH.· luoth.11l ,,uurdol\ ~. t·xn:pt 
Mh.:hdll-Famo 
dunn,1: c.·xam .uul \",ll.ltlon ('I.' rind' Tht• 
'\t••u.·s l:"tlilur \Llrc R.1mirt·1
Oh\t'n't'r '' puhlt~hnl h~ liH.' ..tmh:m'''' 
C.op)'l:ditw·... \btrk Po.llt-r
lht· I 111\"l'r'tt\ ol :"\il)tn· l>;unt• and '\,11111 .\fuW/s C·uj11' Fclilur b.! Kuncu.ly
\J;tq ·., l nllt',l.:t" ·'uh'' nprum., m.n ht· rhl·ron Roht·n:-. 
pur~. h.J..nl lur S.!.c; per ~ t'.tr ( S I:, per ~-,,.,"jJoiH/ I tlJ•out P.ml Brun·
,c.·mt·.,tt·r) h\ '' rllut).t Tht• Obst•n-t·r, 
\"/)Dar l:tlil,r. .\tdind01 ~loon·
I' ( 1 H••' t.) 'olrc. J>.unc.· lndi.IJl.J th:,.:;(, \\/C IJtll' l"dliUI ... \tag~Jl' ( }"( .onndl
l"ht· Oh~c..·n·c..:r '' ,, mt·ml"wr ,,, Tlu: r\"­
.td I )(•stgll.. .lt.:an l·uch
~n·louc..·d 1-'rc.."'"'· .\II rt·pn..t.l-t_h 1u'n n~,_.n.., .trt·n•,t·nnl 
l'hPIO,f.!l'tl/lher.. . l.t·\· < Jwrl'l~k\ 
"--------~~----~----l~J'f:.."-''-·'---~~--·-l_lt:~l~'~·-"~''~ 


Complaining is a popular way to spend time at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. And student government is one of the more popular things to complain about, along with dining hall food, professors, and life in general. 
Criticisms concerning student government are quite familiar to all: "They're just out for themselves," "They have no real influence over what is going on," and "Students aren't really represented." 
True, student government at both schools will never be fully involved in major administrative changes, as evidenced by the nonexistent voice of students in the Notre Dame alcohol policy decision. 
But student influence in decision-making is an area in which Saint Mary's students have far more potential and can he far more effective than Notre Dame students. 
By virtue of their size alone, Saint Mary's ad­ministrators are far more accessible and receptive to student needs and demands. 
But are students taking advantage of this situation? At first glance, no, except in situations where 

Theresa Guarino 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Tuesd 


of complaints, there could be action. Student govern­ment has been accused of being ineffectual and of not dealing with real issues. But suggestions have to travel from the bottom up. Concerns can't be acted on if they aren't heard. Complaints and criticisms are useless if there is no action to back them up. 
Can you imagine calling ami making an appointment with Father Hesburgh to talk over some disagreeable University policy? It sounds very far fetched. Any Saint Mary's student can make an appointment with Duggan, though. In fact, Duggan held open oftke hours for stu­

someone else has done the 
dents last semester on Mon­work first on a major issue days. But he: never had a everyone is upset over. single student take ad­Then it is easy to join in on vantage oftht·m. the bandwagon. Of course, there will al­A good example is the ways be areas in which the housing policy reversal ear­administration will never lier this semester. Weeks budge to student demands, before: room picks, students among them parictals and had been griping. They were the current Saint Mary's al· going to get stuck in terrible coho! policy, which Notre rooms next year because the Dame's policy may soon adminstration wanted to come to resemble. Students cater to incoming freshmen. unfortunately will never No one wanted the in­have a real voice in these tegrated dorms, and the dis· areas. covery that individual Smallerconcerns can \'cry 
rooms had been blocked off 
made people all the more 
angry. 
A few days before room picks, petitions initiated by the sophomore class began to circulate and finally, on the afternoon of room picks, a meeting was held with College President John Duggan. Duggan, in a surprising move, reversed the housing policy2 hours before room picks were scheduled to begin. Students were happy ­all they had done was sign a petition and their will was done. 
Saint Mary's potential for student represenration was glimpsed at. Imagine the situation at Notre Dame. It couldn't happen, precisely because of Notre Dame's size. To suggest such a change first would mean a stu­dent talking to his student senator or hall president, who might bring up the matter at the Hall President's Council or student senate. It would be debated and voted on, probably only to be ignored by the adminstra­tion and its great wealth of red tape. 
Maybe Saint Miry's students don't realize that instead well be aired and acted on, 
contrary to popular belief. This year as an example, requests were made for lofts in dorms, especially in tiny Regina rooms. A committee is being formed to consider this. 
Dining hall food, a common complaint, is another area. SAGA managers recently held discussions in each dorm to listen to criticisms and suggestions on their frequently maligned food. Yet few students showed up. Those students that did come, however, made sugges· tions that were considered and put into action. 
Saint Mary's has potential for student voices to be heard effectively. But until students take their com­plaints from amongst friends and to people who can get things done, that potential will not be realized. 
Saint Mary's students -quit your complaining and start acting. It could be more productive than you would imagine. 

FRESHMAN PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGRAM 
Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program areas on Tuesday, AprillO at 6:30pm. 
At each program complete information will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree curriculum. 
The meeting places for the programs, according to college program area, are as follows: 
Arts and Letters College Programs (all, including AL Preprofessional) Engineering Auditorium 
Business~dmil_!!_~t_!'ation College Program 
122 Hayes-Healy Center, A through Mat 6:30 to 7:30PM 
Aerospace Architecture Chemical Civil Electrical 
Mechanical Metallurgical 
Biology Chemistry Earth Sciences Mathematics 
Microbiology 
Physics 
N through Z at 7:45 to 8:45 PM 

Engineering College Programs 
Cushing Hall, room 303 Architecture Building, room 201 Cushing Hall, room 212 Cushing Hall, room 205 356 Fitzpatrick Hall: A through L at 6:30PM M through Z at 7:00PM Cushing Hall, room 122 Fitzpatrick Hall, room 254 

Science College Programs 
Preprofessional (science only) 

ALL FRESHMAN ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM 01' THE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMENT THEY INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR. 
j ' 
Galvin Life Science Center, room 278 Nieuwland Science Hall, room 341 Earth Science Bldg., room 101 Computing Center & Math Building, room 300 Galvin, room 109 Nieuwland, room 401 Nieuwtiutd. worn 127 

The Observer Tuesday,AprillO, 1984-page 3 



CROP Hunger Walk will run Palin Sunday 
By LAUREEN WOLFE 
News Staff 
Five hundred persons will walk I 0 
kilometers through the streets of 
South Bend on Palm Sunday, all to 
help raise a goal of S2S,OOO to com­
bat hunger within St. Joseph County 
and around the world. 
The second annual St. Joseph County CROP Hunger Walk is scheduled for April 15, and will begin at 2:00p.m. at St. Joseph High School. Registration will take place in the parking lot at I :30 p.m. 
The walk will proceed south from St. Joseph toward the city, and will continue through the East Race area and then downtown. The course will then turn westward for several blocks before looping north to com­plete the circuit of I 0 kilometers, ending at St. Joseph High School. An average of SSO will be raised per per­son. 
Twenty-five percent of the funds raised will be distributed among lo­cal organizations such as the Food Bank of Michiana and other groups working to alleviate hunger within the community. The remaining 75 percent of the funds will be dis­tributed worldwide to fight global hunger. Sponsors may designate their pledges for world hunger to CROP or any major international relief agency. 
There are several ways to become involved in this year's CROP Hunger Walk. Individuals are needed to seek pledges and to walk. Sponsors to support walkers are also needed. Persons are also required to assist with registration and other tasks such as moral support the day of the walk. 


Estee Lauder representatil'e Caro~vn Starry presented a "success seminar" last night in the parlor ofthe Haggar College Center at Saint Mary•'s, offering tips on dressingforjob interviews, make-up hints, am, suggestion on building self-confidence. 


> 


Tuesday Specials 3-8 pm Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 8-3 am Bud Light long necks, . 75 Sign ap now! Corby Open Golf Toamy!! 

Applications for 

ASSISTANT TREASURER 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 

Must presently be a Sophomore Accountina major 
If you have any question, stop by or call239-7417 and ask for AI. 
Appl"icalions Due 
Friday, Aprill3 4:00 PM 




Harlem 
THURSDAY, APRIL 12 7:30P.M. Notre Dame ACC 
Prices: $7 & $8.50 $2 discount for Notre Dame & St. Mary's students/ Faculty/Staff 
Tickets on sale at ACC Box Office 9a.m.-5p.m. 

CATCH THE A\fAGICt 
'Terms' takes five Oscars; Best Picture 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -"Terms of Er dearment," the bittersweet story of mother and daughter. was name best picture of 1983 last night, whil Shirlt:y MacLaine and Jack Nicho son won Oscars as the eccentri mother and the pot-bellied el astronaut with whom she has an a fair. 
It was a night of no major upset with the 56th annual Academ Awards spread more evenly than most years. "Te, n1s" led with five ­including best director ar screenplay adaptation for James Brooks -followed by four each f, "The Right Stuff' and "l'anny Alexander." 
Robert Duvall was voted best ac­tor for his role as a washed-up country singer who overcomes al­coholism in "Tender Mercies." Ht was the only American nominated ir his category, competing against four British actors. 
Linda Hunt, the idealistic mal( dwarfphotographer in "The Ycar o Living Dangerously," won the bes supporting actress award -the firs time an Oscar has gone to a perfor mer playing a character of the or posite sex. 
''I'm going to cry because th show has been as long as my career said an overjoyed Miss MacLain who had been nominated four tim previously but never won. Amor her competition was Debra Wing• who played her daughter. 
Duvall, clad in country garb. t( the audience that he and his fell( filmmakers had "set out to make truthful film" and said the appro ofsuch country stars asjohnny Ca Willie Nelson and Waylon Jennir along with the Oscar "make thi: complete evening for me." 
Brooks, who also produt "Terms," and had never directec movie before, said "This is an · traordinary evening for us." praised his cast for having "so mt to do with his script; finally it ' redefined, finally it was an act( film." 
Miss Hunt, known mainly a New York stage actress, was chee by the audience, which had foL__ _ little excitement in the first minutes of the show. 
The four-foot, nine-inch act cited an Indonesian proverb, "W from the moon" -something u tainable. She added, "Making ' Year of Living Dangerously' wa~ me water from the moon." 
Best  song  of  the  year  
"Fiashdance"  from  the  smasl  
movie of the same name.  



The Observer Tuesday, April 10, 1984 -page 4 

Speakers say U.S. interventionism 
The StudentActivities Board 

supports repressive governments 
PUBLICITY COMMITTEE 
By PATRICK MULLEN 
Neu•sStaff 
Th~· two speakers at last night's kcturc on llnitcd States interven­tionism agreed that past and current American ti1rt:ign policy in Latin America sustains regimes guilty of political, social and economic rcpn·ssion and supports subversion 

of regimes which arc more rcprc­sentativ~· of their people. 
llan Scus, a representative of th~· Young Socialists in West Germany, and o~·ar Izquierdo, representing Costa Rican Social Democrats, also expressed their resentment for the li.S. the support of the people of Latin America, but is in fact turning popular opinion in the region away from the U.S. 
Scus, a member ofthe German So­cial Democr-atic Party ( SPD ), said that contrary to what the US. government claims, the Sandinista government in Nicaragua is repre­sentative of its people and it has in­itiated a struggle against ignorance, poverty, and multinational control of its economy. According to Seus, both the U.S and West German governments arc wrong in cutting aid to Nicaragua and "dosing its doors to the international market," 
the democratic government in Costa Rica to keep American troops out ofCosta Rica. He said Costa Rica has attempted to remain neutral in the highly volatile region of central America, but that it is under great pressure by the Reagan administra­tion to accept American soldiers along its border with Nicaragua. The soldiers would presumably be put there to assist the rebel contra.'> in Nicaragua. 
The lecture is part ofa nationwide series sponsored by the Democratic Socialists of America (Youth Sec­tion). Two of the lecturers were denied visas to the United States by 

is now interviewing for: 
• 
assistant director 

•
committee coordinators '.-.,·........,... 

•
Art Staff director 

•
artists Information is avaUable at the Student 


Activities Board Offices on the 2nd Floo of Lafortune. 
Reagan 
The "America 
ment in 
regimes 
democratic 
of li.S. Nicaragua, 
Domini1.:an Salvador was at 
actor Ed 
Administration's policies toward Latin American countries. kctur~· featur~·d the movit: in Transition" which 
portrayed th~· history ofll.S. involve­support of dictatorial and overthrow of 
and Marxist-sodalist govcrnml·nts in six diffcn·nt Latin American countries. The film em­phasized that the li.S. govnnml·nt's fear of communism and protection 
economic interests in Guatemala, Cuba, the Republic, Chile and 1:1 
the root of policy toward thl'Sl" countries. 
Th~· 50-minute movie narrated by Asnn ~..·ondmled that Amnican policy is not gaining th~· 



Peace 
charity 
gin·n in tht· Prcsidt·nl: A N~·w 
~tilllll" 
Washinglon. D.C. 
tory. "II is a 
admission fn·. 
continuedfrom page I 
walk will hdp lo provid~· li1od assistance in th~· Michiana area and lo Third World countries. 
Also on Sunday. a It-nun· will b~· 
M~·morial Library at H 
p.m. titled. "A Policy in s~·arch of a 
Approat·h to li.S. Forc.:ign Policy." Richard Barm·t. the author of(,"/obal Reach and 7be Al­liance. will ddiver th~· kt·tur~·-
Barnet b a St:nior Fellow at th1..· ln­ti>r Polic}· Studies in 
The Wl"l"k nmdlll.ks on Monday and Tut·sday 1..·v~·nings with tlu· In­diana premkr~-showing of "In Our Ilands," a film comrnnnorating the largest pt·ace tkrnonstration in his-
major media event." said Murphy. Tht· tllm will ht· shown in tht· J:nginn·ring auditorium at -,and ') hoth nights. and th~·re will be a S I 
For mon· informalion. contat·tthc (:.:n11.·r lilr SodaI ( :.mc~-rns. 

They said the U.S. is violating the will the Reagan administration under of the Nicaraguan people by charges that they were "threats to supporting the subversive activities national security." 
"a chance to be for something instead of against"
of right-wing omtra.o; there. The Student Organization for 
Seus stressed that the U.S. must do Latin America (SOLA) and the something to stop right wing death Democratic Socialists of America squads in 1:1 Salvador instead of ( DSA) sponsored the lecture at 

GARYHART 
supporting a goVl·rnment in which Notre Dame. Anyone interested in many leaders have links to the death joining either of these organizations squads. should contact Bill Krais a& 283­
We need your help in Indiana! 
Izquierdo spok~· of the efforts of 6713. To volunteer, call: 
After JOUI" lastexam, 
P. Bender 232-6835 K. Grant 239-7694
wbattoughquestions 
J. Jaspers 283-3377 W. O'Neil 233-3014
willyoustillbefacing? 
''A NEW GENERATION OF LEADERSHIP" 
ATIENTION: SENIORS in the College of Business Administration 
VOTING for The Senior Class OutstandingTeacherAward
W don't have your answers. 
But we'll listen to your questions, share some of our own about who we want to become 
will take place in the &ont lobby
and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered 
of Hayes-Healy
the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One-Year Candidate Program 
TUESDAY, APRIL 10 
provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities-in community. 
and 

II 
Contact' 
WEDNESOAY,APRJL 11 
Rev. Andrt> Leveille, C.S.C. Vocalion Director 
&om
Box 541 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 

10:00 AM to 2:00 PM 




o·s~' 

Restaurant and lounge n 
c-----233-7747~~---
Presenrs 
music by 

DEWAN 
Wednesday,AprU 11 & 18 
As a guest D.J. Try our Late Night 11 pm-1 am Happy Hour in April. 
You must be 21 AND PROVE I~ 


PROFESSIONAL 

BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S: Navy Supply Corps has openings In training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to. immediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 
* 
Systems inventory management

* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems

* 
Financial Management 


Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance­
ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age'1Limit_29. Call Navy Toll Free 
1·800·382-9782 
Navy representative on campus 10-12 April 



View~_o_i_n___________ ....y,....
Tu-esd_a



t Ap-ril-10..._,1_98_4~-pa-ge_s 
Mock Convention a priceless opportunity 
Congratulations to 1984 Mock Convention Chairman Tom O'Leary and his stafffor organizinga political opportunity that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will not soon forget. Months ofhard work and dedication culminated in a very live­ly and smooth-running event. The knowledge that was gained under the roof ofStepan Center in the last week provided an educational, social and cultural experience that other univer­sities would find enviable. 
The 1984 Mock Convention provided students with a chance to examine and debate important issues such as the Equal Rights Ammendment, the death penalty, and national education and budget policies that frequently go ignored in an isolated college setting. While it is unfortunate that the num­ber ofissues debated on the platform were so few, the conven­tion did give each participant a chance to question and redefine some of his or her own political stance. It enlarged Notre Dame and Saint Mary's view ofthe world. 
The campaign chairmen for the various candidates are also to be applauded for their efforts. In particular, Hart campaign Chairman Bernie Pelligrino, Askew Chairman Dave MeA voy, and Mondale Chairman Mike Brogioli all waged very profes­sional campaigns. 
The guest speakers provided some of the more engaging moments of the convention. Louisiana Rep. Lindy Boggs, Democratic National Chairman Charles Manatt, Kentucky Rep. Romano Mazzoli, formerJohn F. Kennedy aide Theodore Sorenson and Oklahoma Attorney General Michael Turpen and others presented refreshingly liberal views to a largely conservative delegation. 
A quadrennial ritual, the l\bck Convention is an excellent opportunity for the College and the University to regularly examine and make public the prevailing political views on the campuses. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have an obligation as leading Catholic institutions to voice their political inclina­tions. The Mock Convention is an excellent vehicle for clarify­ing and expressing those inclinations. 

Perhaps the most enjoyable aspect ofthe Mock Convention was the overwhelming enthusiasm exhibited by the par­ticipants. In this day and age at Notre Dame, it is relatively harato get students excited about much of anything beyond alcohol and Cap'n Crunch. Politics, especially, are foreign ground for many students these days. 
Thus: the authentic convention setting and genuine politi­cal fervor displayed at the convention were a welcome change. The delegates who signed up and did not show missed quite a lot. For the more than 500 students who did par­ticipate, the 1984 Mock Convention will be a very memorable episode oftheir college years. 
Thank you, Tom O'Leary and the convention staff, for providing a stimulating and valuable political experience. 
-The Observer 


Brennan's Guide to American colleges 
Michael L. Brennan 
And so it goes 

NOTRE DAME: Notre Dame, In. 46556 Admissions: student must be highly com­petitive,SAT: 570V630M, or be related to con­tributing alumnus. 
Sprawled over 1250 wooded acres and two crystal green lakes, Notre Dame remains a Jiving testimony to "Father Sorin's Vision." It is situated only minutes from downtown South Bend, home of "The Deluxe Sandwich Shop" and "The Glo Worm Tavern." 
Long famous and world-renowned for its athletic prowess, Notre Dame, under the leadership of Theodore Hesburgh, has vastly improved its academic reputation, without cheating. And in the future, Notre Dame hopes to become the pre-eminent Catholic University in America, even if it requires the dismissal ofall non-Catholics. 
STIJDENT LIFE: While the people that com­prise this mid-western university are truly its greatest asset, students who expect to fmd Paradise beneath The Dome are invariably dis­appointed and disillusioned. 
The homogeneity of the student popula­tion, in their common Irish heritage, upper-middle class backgrounds, Cat­holicism, political conservatism, and even dress makes for easy stereotyping. 
Freshmen form single sex herds and quickly learn to classify others by their dorm or major.They learn that football-loving, beer­drinking over-achievers who think "God made Notre Dame 1" are Domers. St. Mary's women are stereotyped and stigmatized out of any individual existence; they are col­lectively classified "SMiCs." The sense of Catholic community resulting from this homogeneity finds expression in the term "The N.D. family." Students readily identify their peer group (everyone else), and issues are debated within the framework ofChristian values. 
Yet the Jack of exposure to a diversity of ideas, beliefs, and cultural nuances breeds a complacency towards "the almighty mold." Students are not challenged to question and focus their beliefs. 
The uninquisitive attain their ideology through environmental osmosis. Their self-definition is so much a reflection of the com­munity that the Hammes' wardrobe becomes part oftheir self-image. 
The intense conformist pressures of such homogeneity suppress and stifle individuality, leading to student frustration. But the option of transferring, an idea many flirt with, seems sacreligious, a rejection ofsomething sacred. 
Excellent foreign studies programs, urban plunges, community service projects, re­quired philosophy and theology courses, a diverse selection offilms and speakers, and an open-minded and accessible faculty help to al­leviate chronic tunnel vision. Nevertheless, too often students take the path ofleast resis­tance. 

The Administration clings to the hierarchi­cal and patriarchal structures of the Gttholic Church, and dictates the parameters of stu­dent life in an authoritarian manner. Entrusted with few responsibilities, students are not challenged to mature, form their own con­sciences, and challenge the structures of authority. 
The students are taught to fear authority, particularly the ultimate professorial author­ity -the letter grade. This fear inhibits stu­dents from seeing their professors as fellow human beings who share their questions and 

concerns. Intimidated, they fail to learn from 
their professors outside the classroom. 
Students' fear of rejection, coupled with 

derogatory campus stereotypes, stifles intel-· 
lectual curiosity. They tend to be non­
reflective. They are somewhat naive and 
sheltered. Sophomoric posturing prevails. 
Although students are generally apolitical 

and unquestioning, they have strong opinions. They are wary ofcommitment to causes. They . lack the spark, the innate curiosity, oftrue ex­cellence. They are more acquisitive than in­
quisitive. 
Notre Dame students have little difficulty 
reconciling their conservative capitalism with 
their Christianity. Their position at the top of 
society does not make them feel greater 
responsibility for the less fortunate. 
The limited worldview of students 
manifests itself in the ongoing insularity of 
Notre Dame. Students fail to see life beyond 
the dome. 
Notre Dame supports and protects its stu­
dents, but does not challenge them to mature, 
question, and define themselves in their most 

formative years. 
And so it goes. 



Experience architecture at Notre Dame 
Like it or not, our minds are simply in­capable ofsorting out all the stimuli that con­stantly bombard our senses. Probably, we would all go crazy if we had to respond to every bit ofinformation that competes for our attention. 
Although we sense more than we are ever aware of, most of our sense impressions arc filed away in our subconscious minds. But 
David Doane 
Guest column 

even these subconscious perceptions can have profound effects on our feelings and ac­tions. The huwan psyche is vulnerable to en­vironmental impact. 
The purpose of architecture is to improve the quality of human existence, making the world a little better through the influence of form. In designing the buildings in which we live, architects consider hidden orders ofper­ception -because they realize that people are sensitive, if only subconsciously, to proportion, scale, color, light, and sound. 
Good architecture must do more than simply meet functional requirements if it is to influence the quality ofour lives. It is just not enough to say that a building "works" from a purely pragmatic point of view; if it doesn't inspire us ordoesn't mean anything to us, then the designer has failed to realize the potential power ofarchitecture to enrich our lives. 
When Father Sorin set out to establish a Catholic University on the semi-frontier ofln­diana in 1842, he was well aware of the profound architectural principles that had long been established at Oxford and Cambridge -those great English universities planned as ideal intellectual communities. 
He recognized that if Notre Dame was to establish itself as an ideal intellectul com­munity, the site and the actual buildings had to be expressive of the moral values implicit in Catholic higher learning. 
When the intellectual, religious and cul­tural centers of this new community were eventually given form, the majestic oGolden Dome was flanked, appropriately, by the taste­ful Nco-Gothic Sacred Heart Church and the sophisticated Washington Hall. 
From this point, the University grew, its development strengthened by the Grand Axis of Notre Dame Avenue. This tree-lined ap­proach leads up to the open spaces of the South Qua.d and continues visually through the arboretum of the Main Quad, terminating on the domed focal point of the Administra­tion building. 

These essential elements, so crucial in es­tablishing the character of Father Sorin's dream, were accomplished in an era which placed a higher value on visual impact, implied meanings, and idealistic intentions than on the cost-effectiveness of today's profit-oriented society. 
It was after World War II that Notre Dame began to grow rapidly, and its character began to change. Society rejected the values of Father Sorin's day and subordinated all other concerns to those of utilitarianism and ex­pediency. 
Needed yet incompatible buildings sprang up as the campus expanded, succumbing to the lamentable effects of post-war austerity. Stanford-Keenan and Pangborn-Fisher help enclose and define North and South Quads respectively, but they are characteristically sterile and mechanical, reflecting a spirit of pragmatism and anti-historicism. 
Utilitarian planning tries to convey the message that we don't need idealistic inten­tions and that saving a buck is more important than preserving a dream. The importance of architecture's psychological message cannot be so readily dismissed. 
Compare the gentle, aspiring Administra­tion Building, to the towering, egocentric Memorial library. The curious Dome, like Father Sorin himself, embraces us and holds our interest and respect. But the stark vertical lines ofthe haughty library make us feel insig­nificant. 
It's no wonder that students are voicing their disillusion with a university that pur­ports to be like the Dome but is, in reality, more like the library. 
The quality ofa society's built environment is an accurate measure ofits values and ideals. Once we realize how influential our subcon­scious impressions are, we tend to place more value on idealistic planning. 
But does this mean that we must use outdated architectural styles in order to be compatible with traditional ideas? Not at alL Snite Museum ofArt, designed by Ambrose M. Richardson of the architectural faculty, it is a fine example of how today's architecture can be compatible with the essence of the past. It is a question ofspirit, ofmassing and detailing, 
of warmth and scale. 
Hopefully, future campus architecture will 
meet the true expressive challenge Sorin envi­
sioned. 
This is an adaptation ofan article which recently appeared in Architext, the independ­entpublication ofNotre Dame'sschool ofar­chitecture. David Doane is a fifth year architecture student and contributing editor ofArchitext 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller . . . . . . . ........ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre f)ame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the admir~lstration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsignet\le6Rt0fials.r.epresent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor . ........... Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966

community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor .............. Mary Healy is encouraged . Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 
.....ii!iii!iiiiiiiiii;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~_-~-_iiii_~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_~-.-_..•.•.•....
. -~-.. 
r Tuesday, AprillO, 1984-page 6 



Sports Briefs 
The men's tennis team upset a tough Western Mkhigan team at the Courtney Tennis Center yesterday, '\-·t This af'tl·rnoon. the tc:am faces Butler in an easier match at 3 p.m. at Courtney. -The OfJserrrer 
Bookstore Basketball XIII will he the topic of discussion tonight at I0:00 on WSND-AM 64's Speaking of Sports program. Tournamt·nt Commissioner Jeff Blumh will he in the studio to field qut·stions and comments at .239-6400 and 239-742'\. -The Obsen•er 
AnTostal Ultimate Frisbee rules and schedules will he distributed tonight from 6:00-6:30 in the LaFortune lobby. All captains must he there to pick them up. Games begin tomorrow. 
-The Obsen•er 
Holy Cross and Lewis were the victorious halls in Sunday's NVA tennis tournament held at the Courtney Tennis Cen­tt·r. Over HO people braved the hitter cold to participate in the all­day tourney. Jeff Knipe of Zahm captured the men's singles bracket with a two-set victory over Steve Simone of Holy Cross. Meanwhile, lfoly Cross residents Mike Kowitz and Charlie Wiegel claimed vic­tory in the men's doubles competition. ln women's action, Sarah Molinskey of Walsh earned the singles crown with a straight-set vic­tory overJaneen Olds of Lewis. In doubles competition, Mary Keller and Kathy Immonen of Lewis claimed the title. -The Obsen,er 
Women's Bookstore Basketball wm be 
holding a mandatory captain's meeting tonight. April 10, from 8:30· 
9:30 in the l.aFortunt· Little Theatre. Bring roster and any unpaid fees to the meeting. Every team must be represented at the meeting or else they will be dropped from the tournament. Those with ques· tions shoulu c:all Patty at 1313 or Kathleen at 161 R-The ObsenJer 
The ND women's softball team won the St. 
Mary's of the Woods Tpurnament last weekend in Terre Haute, Ind. Thl· Irish heat host SMWC, I7-4, behind the pitching ofValerie Har­ris. Chris Callahan,Jackil-Barry, and Kathleen Priest led Notre Dame with two hits apiece. In thdr second game, the women defeated a tough Oakland City team, .~-0. with freshman pitcher Kim Kohlaas gl·tting rhe shut out. Mary Clare Winkkr was 2-:'> at the plate. -The 
Ohsen•er 

that helped the Irish rushing game to gins attributes this to another season he as good as any in the country. As a under the same system.
Football rookie in I982, he saw action in one He also sees this year's Irish of· 
game. Perrino emerged as a starter fenive line as "the most experienced continuedfrom page 8 four games into the 19H3 season. he has ever hall." The I9H4 squad is Before last year's campaign it was quicker and stronger than that of a 
Plantz saw action in one game planned that he would backup Larry year ago. during his first season. Last year, he Williams. However, when Mike Although Higgins says, "a few in­played the role of backup for Mike Shiner was hurt, Perrino was in­juries could always hurt a team" he Kelley at center. In 1983, he par­serted in his place. The strong tackle doesn't see any other major ticipated in each of the twelve position was taken over by Perrino weaknesses or problems that could games including 56 specialty ap­when Williams w<L~ moved to quick arise. There arc a few individuals on pearences as a guard on special tackle. the team who arc more than capable teams. Offensive Line Coach Jim Higgins to fill-in if necessary. 
Junior Mike Perrino (6-5, 274-is pleased with the developments Barring any catastrophes, next lbs.) will be the starter at strong that have taken place thus far this season the Irish should have an of­tackle. Perrino is an important in­spring. "They are picking up things a fensive line that ranks among the na­dividual within the offensive line lot quicker this year than last." Hig-tion's best. 
• • and then there were 397 
Yesterday's Results Bookstore 1 0 Stepan 4 Stepan 1 Cathenne the Great Meets Mr Ed over Yorba 4.00 -Eager Beaver Cleavers v The Frghtrng A Keg. 3 Shots & a Schamp over Gerry's a Nice Linda's Fan Club Lrght by 6 GrrmmrOIU.F.N. Guy, What Does Drgger by 5 Srck lndivrduals over Thrs Tool For SMC by 19 4:45-20th Century Studs v. Hula Hoopsters The Old & Injured over Arnie & the Brg Heads by 4 We Might Not Get Many ... over Heterosexual Pir­5:30-We'd Rather Be Playing Golf v. Chairman 5 Guys Who Have NOT Been Wilh Jamie .. over hana Breeders .. 24-22 Maw & Hrs Gang Of 4 Mike Heinie's Best Side ... by 5 Nutmeggers Vllover4 Players& An Irishman by 12 6:15 -Jrm Vankrrk's Team v. Bookstore BFD Full House over Geronimo's Revenge by 13 Lyons11 Stepan 5 Stepan 2 A Black, A Jew. A Cripple & 2 Women over Horse-4:00 -Sectron 4A Holes Plus 1 v. 2 Who Do. 1 Spurlin' Spartans over Au Jus. 29-27 balls by 10 
Who Doesn't, 1 Who Won't Polly & the Orchrds over Disorder On the Court by 8 4 Dirtballs & a Dog over Deuteronomy 32:35 by 6 4 45 -The Toe Jam v. White Ducks Don't Wear Big Swahilis over Bornik by 13 Motown over The Selenites by 5 Ties & An Eskrmo Fun Bunch 5 over We're Not Short All Over by 18 Grizzily Bears On Acid over Fartz by 5 6.15-Boned v. More Bounce To the Ounce Stepan 3 Lyons12 Stepan 6 Take ItTo the Hole over Drew Lashus' T earn by 1 0 SONF over 5 Seniors Who Never Played 6 15-Dunkrn Dubs v. Glenn's Gobbledygooks Whtte Boy's Disease over Our Roommates Won't Bookstore .. by 17 Play With Us by 16 Padres over 1 Cubs Fan & 4 Who Thank God The Mtsstng Dimension . . over Mr. Lizard & the They're Not by 11 Asbestos Cockroaches by 5 Teddy's Bears over Grab a Sandwich II by 16 Bookstore9 Sweet Swishers over Spontaneous Combustion by Armadillo 5 over We're Under 5-8 But Over 12 
4:00-5 Pool Hustlers From New Bedtord v. 5 
6 Inches by 18 Guys Who Couldn't Score .. Stepan 4 
4.45 -5 Journalists Who Know a Good LayoutThe Shysters over The Legion of Doom by 17 
When They See 1 v. Red Tape Duffy's Alamo $.50 Balloon Club over The Uncir· . 
5:30-We Came To Shoot Pool But the Table Was cumcised Youth by 14 
In Use v. Moon Ju1ce Men Without Broads over Party Animals by forfett 
6:15-Old Men On the Block v. Esophagus Con­Krng Charles & the Sexual Cowboys over No-Today'& Games 
strictors necked Removers of Other by 7 Stepan 1 
Bookstore 10 Stepan 5 4:00-Law School v. 6 Whrte Boys Who Want To 4.00 -The Dry Heaves v. Clean BurnrngRho House over The Unknown Factors by 11 Juke Tom Slooby 
Kerosene Convection Heaters Jstha Tire U Donab Ike? over Los Cholos Locos by 4 45-Bad Karma v. BuH, Sweat & Tears 
4:45-How Are We Dorng? v. Congratulatrons Phrl 
13 5:30 -Liquor Box 2 v. Michael Jackson Is a &Aiisa Anyplac&.Anytime over The Zero Factor by 14 Flaming Homo 
5:30-We Be Yo Dates v. Deutsche s We Suck over Leonid Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov & 6:15 -Sat. Nights Resonance Fever v. Joe 
6:15 -Mrlwaukee Polo Club v. ROTC -Really
Their Better Dead by 14 Delaney & the 4 Lifeguards Only Turtron Counts Stepan& Stepan2 
Lyons 12 Seka over 1 Game & We re Out by 15 4:00 -Mod Squad v. Tom Whrte & the 4 Other 4:00 -Hoses Heros v Pole Face & the South Spud & the 4 Studs over Jesse Jackson & the BB Caucas1ans 
Bend Tards Bad by 18 4 45 -Woman. 2 Jews. a Cnpple. & a Black v. 4 45-TGIF v. Casper the Frrendly Coach A Wheel & 4 Spokes over Brg Sandwich & the Pots Shootrng 8-C-Men 
5.30 -3 Jerks. the Phrlly Kid. & Herby v 4 
of Food by 13 5:30-Carboxyls v. We're As Hot As Andropov Grrngos & a Sprc The Origrnal Egg-Shell Skulls over Bad Finger. 6.15-Demented Doormats v Junior Wubbas 
6:15-Drck Naugles Memorral All-Stars v. The Again by3 Stepan 3 
Homewreckers Bookstore 9 4:00 -Marty Dunn & the Rat Chasers v. 5 Boy Lyons 12 Br Campbell's Cobra Crew over Hey Mer. Would Scouts Who Eat Brown1es 
4 00-5 Guys Wrth Good Hands v. Dunkrn' Donuts Playrng Atarr by 14 4:45-Thrnk Of the Possrbrlitres v Beta & the 4 
4 45 -5 Good Reasons For a New Alcohol Give Us Mucha Chocha over It Takes Balls To Be a Guppres 
The Drscrples of Mr. Potato Eunich by 6 5:30 -The Porson Ivy Award Wrnners v. 12 5:30 -Wrn One For Craig-Craig v. RythmnChssst over The Swampbounders by 6 Second Men 
Method Babres Carmtne Marro Has a Fever over Weebte·s War­6.15-Hey. Ward, Don't You Think You Were 
6:15 -F1esta Hounds v. Rousseau s Noble riors by 13 v. Oscar & the Jumping 
Savages 

The Observer Notre Dame office. located on tht· third floor of l.al'ortunt· Student Center. at-cepts classified advertisin~o: from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m .. :\1onday through l'riday. The Observer Saint Mary's offit·e. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:.i0 p.m. until .i p.m.. Mon­day though l'riday. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifit·ds must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Chargt· is I() cents per five charac·



Classifieds 
tcrs er dav. 
NOTICES 

COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 2n-6045. W /prck up & delrver 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING AT LOW PRICES REPORTS RESEARCH PAPERS LEGAL DOCUMENTS RESUMES COVER LETTERS CONTACT TEAl BAN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 234-4045 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUB!tll!fl 
AHentron -TAU BETA PI MEMBERS · Volunteers are needed to assrst wrth Spe· cral Olymprcs on Sat Apr 14. Only 3 hrs of your trme rs needed Interested? Call Aga (3896) or Brran (1470) 
JUNIORS, SENIORS, GRAD STU. DENTS I Enjoy the con,.nlence of your own cr.dtt carda Ill leading depart· ment ato"'a, ott comp11nlea, and blinka. No coat to apply. II you are a Junior, S.nlor or Gradusta atudent, you•,.. eligible. Cell toll-,.. 100-523­4104. College Cr.dlt Cerci Corporation, "The Moat Tnuatad Name On Clll1'lpua." 
TYPING· 6 YRS. EXPERIENCE AT NO. MY HOME. 2n-3085. 
HELICOPTERS. Want to know why they were on campus Saturday? Call CPT Aleman. 239-62&4 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND. A SPARE TIRE SITTING ON A SNOWBANK BEFORE BREAK I CANT FIGURE IT OUT, YOU TRY HOW CAN SOMEBODY JUST LEAVE THEIR · TIRE SITTING ON A SNOW· WHEN THEY HAVf TO DRIVE >II you thrnk that the dummy mrght 
· .,... •U. call7559 
LOST Between Zahm and LaFortune: a black classic Cross pen In a leather case. Reward. Please call SMC-5448. 
LOST GOLD NO MEN'S RING. LOST BEFORE BREAK SOMEWHERE ON CAMPUS. IT HAS A BLUE STONE WITH NO ENGRAVED ON TOP MY NAME AND YEAR (85) ARE ENGRAVED INSIDE. THERE IS A LARGE REWARD OFFERED FOR ITS RETURN. IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT MAY BE. PLEASE CALL JEFF O'NEILL AT 8854 
LOST: Crtizen watch w/gold case & black band on 4/4 inS Quad ST area. Gall7992 aher 11. 
LOST· A BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE 
UMBRELLA WITH THE INITIALS RPM ON THE HANDLE I AEALL Y NEED IT. I WOULD APRECIATE IT IF YOU WOULD CHECK YOUR UMBRELLA JUST IN CASE YOU ACCIDENTLY PICKED UP MINE. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA­TION PLEASE CALL RICH AT X8731. THANK YOU 
lost: gold rrmmed eyeglasses in a maroon case. possibly lost near post office. if lound please call 234-6482 around mid­nrght. 
LOST: Mass. Lrcense. Credit Cards, and 24hr-Bank Card rn blue NO holder. Very rmportantl If found. please call Lrnda at 6865. 
LOST: Two tan Jackets at Flanner Names 1ns1de. If found please contact M1ke or Mark at 3546. 
LOST KEYS NEAR THE ACC -~-RAG· QUETBALL COURTS. PLEASE CALL 153CAVANAUGH·1401 
FOUND: UMBRELLA AT STEPHAN 7. CALL 3329 TO IDENTIFY. 
WANTED 
CHOOSE LIFE FOR YOUR BABY! CONSIDER THE OPTION OF ADOP· TIONI INFERTILE COUPLE WANTS TO ADOPT INFANT. WRITE P.O. BOX 5398, FT. WAYNE, IN 46605. 
RIDE NEEDFD TO DC AREA FASTER BREAK--DOLLY 1277 ENDAD Need rrde D C.(Georgetown) for Easter. Can leave Thrs. aher 1. Return Monday. Call Patrrck 3263. 

Need ride to CINCINNATI tor EAS­TER.Can leave WEDS 4/lB.Terry 6737 
WANTED: Female roommate to sharo one-bedroom apt. at Campus View. Call Tracy at 277-7232. 
Aide needed to Omaha for Easter for 1 or 2 Call SMC 4354. 
RIDERS NEEDED to NEWARK. NEW JERSEY: leaving South Bend Friday April 13 and returmng Monday morn1ng. Even if you only want to go part way! cal 485­3948 aher 9 pm and ask for Cheryl. 
Ride needed to Cinti/Miami U Fri 4113 to Sun 4/15--Dave 8408 
WANTED: 2 FEMALE ROOMMATES FOR SUMMER AND/ OR NEXT YEAR AT N.D. APT CALL234-1170 
AIDE NEEDED TO U oft (URBANA) FOR THE WEEKEND OF APRIL 27. OR IF ANYONE IS INTERESTED IN SHARING RENTAL CAR EXPENSE CALL SHELLY AT 8093. 
I NEED A AIDE TO SYRACUSE­SCAANTON-PHILA. AREA FOR EAS­TER CAN LEAVE 4116 CALL MARK 234·2252 
NEED RIDE TO U OF TOLEDO FOR MSB CONCERT 4/14. CALL SMC 5097 
RIDE NEEDED TO NY (WESTCi'ESTEA, WHT PLAINS) FOR EASTER CAN LEAVE WED 4-18 DEB SMC 4265 
2 NEED AIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR BREAK CAN ONLY LEAVE THUAS 4:00 CALL SMC 5097 
AIDE NEEDED TO WASH DC KATH­LEEN 284-4371 
TICKETS 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY $$$. CALL JOHN AT 1761. 
GRADUATION tickets needed. Please call Sherrre at X3726. 
HELP' FAMILY CANT BELIEVE THAT I AM GRADUATING, need commence­ment TICKETS be my saviour. Dan 277· 6366 
NEED DESPERATELY 2 GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY. CALL CAROL 4418. 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 7781 
FOR RENT 
HOUSES-Furnished 1 mile from campus 4-6 bedrooms. 2 baths Call277-3461 
PERSONAL.S 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE !TilIIIII 
Sergio-Four days and counting. Don't worry about the foot. You've JUSt got one of those faces... that nobody can resist. Have a good week. 
Need a place to stay this summer? Want to sublet a 2 bedroom townhnuse apart­ment. 1. 2 or 3 tenants. Within wafkrng dis­tance of campus. Semi-furnished. $250/month without utilities (negotiable) Call283-1479. 
QUESTION4: Who has wriHen for The New Yorker, The New York Times. The Nation, and Sojour­ners? 
Beth -long time no see. When are you gonna tell me some more about Beelaw? Or play The Clown" for me again? Watch out for those sultry entrees. would you? A note from Ziggy Stardust 
P.S. By the way Hit 
KALIL 

TO THURSDAY'S SQUIRREL-HUNTER from OC. 'our conversation was appre­crated on that rainy day. The PW res. movingOC 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED BY THE YELLOW SUB· MARINE MON-THUA 8·11 & FAt-SAT 8· 1 CALL 272·445311 
Theo MaJors: Do not miss the presentation by Ginger Garrett, Faus­tln Weber and Tom Wilmouth tonight, April 10 at 10:00 p.m. In room 331 O'Shaughnessy. Be there to support your fellow members. 
Q: WHERE IS THE BEST PLACE TO HIDE MONEY FROM A EE? A: IN ANY OF HIS TEXT BOOKS. 
ATTENTION ANTOSTAL STAFF: SMOKER TO BE ANNOUNCED: MONEY FOR SHIRTS AND MUGS WILL BE TAKEN TUESDAY AND WEDNES­DAY BETWEEN 1 :00 AND 3:00 IN THE ANTOSTALOFFICE. LaFORTUNE. 
ASKEW SUPPORTERS: We Iough! the good fight. We linished the race. We kept the faith I THANKS Ill 
JUNIOR CLASS HAPPY HOUR 
TONIGHT AT RAFFERTY'S 
ALL DRINKS $1.00 
FROM 9:00 TILL CLOSING. 
NO COVER CHARGE. 
.. 

II gravity is a myth. is that why Mark Boen­ninghausen is so spacy? 
Have you hugged a Cavanltetoday? 
Cavanaugh Week 

Now running through April 15 Be there/ 
PITTSBURGH CLUB BUS SIGNUPS: THURSDAY APRIL 12, LAFORTUNE L'IL THEATRE, 7:00. ROUNDTRIP $40, ONE WAY $25. ALL INTERESTED IN RUNNING FOR NEXT YEAR'S OF· FICERS CALL 7838. 
NOTICE TO ALL LADIES OF THE N.D­
S.M.C COMMUNITY! WALLY ADAMCHICK WILL BE THE LEPREC­HAUN FOR 84-84. CAL~ HIM AT 272­5647 OR STOP BY HIS O.C. PAD AND GIVE HIM A CONGRATULATORY KISS 
YO TEX, with the COWBOY HAT! Want any more CASHEWS? You know the thrng about the word GULLIBLE. rts not rn the dictionary! Got any more straws? You know, I really should have beat you at backgammon. See that plant rn the cor· ner? You think we can take it? Drd you put Ice down my back? Where did you get your SWIMSUIT! PATIENCE MY 
DEARII!!!I!II 

UNCLE BILL WANTS YOU TO READ FOR THE SHAKESPEARE READING MARATHON: APRIL 24-29 CALL SUSIE-3821 OR JOHN-239-7735 FOR DETAILS. 
Two-Fer. I love you! f couldn't change that if I trred ... and f wouldn't even if I could Always remember:· You've got a friend.''x" Love, A Guy With No Nrckname ... Yet 
DEAR MOMMY AND DADDY ( AKA AN­GELA & TEARY), I AEALL Y THINK YOU SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN MARRIED BEFORE YOU STARTED A FAMILY LOVE, ABBY QUINCY 
HEY HOAGIE. TAKE A POWER TEN THROUGH MACRO TODAY! 
Kathy . really sorry , really wanted to go with you. Did not go to the tormal. Told you the truth when you called, what is your phone number? Bill 
MAD HATTER AT SENIOR BAA TUES­DAY APAIL,10 9:00-2:00 
Phit·The Thrill" 

Chuck The Hunk" two memish-boys full of virility seek trw· tion looking tor companionship on a par1 or full time basis. No expenence necessary-will train. call1780 
MEXICO BOB Get much Corby's actron? You are a waste product. How's Albert? Lose count aher 5? Happy 19th and many more Luv. Marcy L of 0. Keg. She. LU. 01saster 
MAD HATTER MAD HATTER MAD HAT· TEA PARTY TONIGHT! 
CONGRATULATIONS CARL! Geez Lou1se we knew you could do 1t. The Live W1res 
CONGRATULATIONS TO KEVIN AND TRACY! MUCH TO MY DISBELIEF. THEY ARE GOING TO GIVE IT A TRY I WISH YOU ALL THE BEST -CR 

~t:)cJ[C}l~----------------------------------T_u_e_~-~-'-Ap_r_u_I_o,_I_98_4_-_.Pa•g-e_7
Bloom Connty Berke Breathed 
Campus
01/STtVI€...
: SIGII... < 

YOV KNOW I 
I ttY:.AN, Rfft.LY... 
ACROSS 1 Man, for one 6 Restrain 1 0 Two-wheeled carriage 14 Habituate  character 35 Bandleader Brown 37 Musical symbol 38 Artist's need  80 Seed covering 61 Cotyor Lacoste 62 Rubout 63 NYteam 64 Eyedrop  11 Moveback and forth 12 Tennis name 13 Nobleman 22 Meadow 23 Ethereal  52 Homethe singer 54 Lump 55 Weaver's reed 59 Actress Joanne  42 Fishbowl inhabitants 44 Insurgents 45 Bakery product 47 More recent 48 Streetcar  
15 Actual  39 Dwelling  65 Foamy  
16 -of Sharon 17 Many times  fee 40 Cravat  25 Water  Monday's Solution  
18 Sailor's  41  Commoner  DOWN  hazard  
saint  in "1984"  1 School  27 Agreement 
19 Yearn  42 Honkers  subj.  28 Psycholo­ 
20 Fortune  43 Butter and  2 Data  gist Have­ 
21 Somnambu­ cheese  3 Render  lock  
list  45 Marionette  unconscious  29 Rule in·  
24 Bay wimlow  46 Work unit  4 Before  fractions  
26 Shame!  47 Biting  5 Thickness  30 Church part  
27 Sp. money  6 Fisherman's  31  Reluctant  
29 Most  48 Bogart  need  riser  
equitable  movie  7 Zaire river  32 On edge  
53 Br. ship  8 Inclined  34 Walked  
letters  slope  36 Printing 
33 Narrow  56 Gobybus  9 Puffer  term  
street  57 Over again  10 Irish  38 Boastful  ©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc.  4/10/84  
34 Stowe  58 Paragon  district  one  All Rights Reserved  

~=~~"~"~"~"~'~"~"~"~"~"~"~"~.-~~"~"~"~"~"="=·-~~====·~-=-=~"~-;.~~;•~•==u=u~•~-~~~-~-;"~-~.~"~··••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
WANTED: Students interested in working on the 
1985 SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
·sign up for positions of chairmen and executive committee members at the Student Activities Board Offices on 2nd Floor 
···Lafortune April 9-13. 
ll.........~ill lllilitttrettllhl.:~.......HIIII...IIHttii....Hetlllli•~tttlitllll&lljlllfi•·etl.titlllllllllll 
• • 26th Annual •! Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival : • Friday Aprill3 7:30PM ••• Saturday Aprill4 1:00PM • •• : Saturday Aprill4 6:30PM 
•

• Stepan Center 
Featuring 15 excellent collegiate jazz bands and judges: 
Dan Morgenstern, Terence Blanchard. Paquito 
D'Rivera, Joanne Bruckeen, Danny ( ;ottaeb, 
Dave Holland • •
• Ti~kets.and T-shirts avJlil,ablt at (ht' Student Union Record 
•

••••••••••••••••••••e•••••••••••••••••••• 

Mellish 
TNIS 15 PAUL CIAV WITH AN "ON· TilE SPoTn !NTEKV!fiJ WITH 
MR. ll' WHO OR6ANIZ~S FOOD 
{)EMONSTRATION5 FOR THE WORlD JIUN6U. COALITION"' 
I 

Guindon Richard Guindon 

t ! 
J 
j 

These Inverted aluminum umbrellas will deflect TV signals from communication satellites .. if that's Important to you. 
49 Takeon 39 Corded 
50 Work on a fabric newspaper 41" Persian 51 Snicker-fairy 

The Daily Crossword 

NOW,MR.K, YES, PAUL1 . 
YOU bJEKt BM!Nb I MIIST LAST MONTI/'5 T!IXE THf 
IHPKESS/V£ ct£1/T FPR 11TIIPil·TMT TIIAT 0/iE., 
ItO,'? \ 
~~~ 
MAKING MONf.Y BY KE&PING 
RAPISTS ANP IWJRPr:f(f.KS OIIT Of JAil.... WHf.f{f. WOIIUJ 5VCH A Nlc&, RE5ff.CTAIU, V!*R­WIS5 BOY HflVf. OOTTEtiTHE. 

YOU AJSO PJANN£/) AH! YD/J TilE /NfllfTIII/5 MENTION "BOX-0·/..EFTOVER'' /11~ PRIPE 
SPE.CT!lClE? AND {OY! 
I 
TI/Ar Oflt 
T~ULY MAP£ 

511/P(NTS 5/CK 
Mm GUILT. 

~~~ 
The Far Side 
fROM I PRAY Yo/JU HIS 5/f()((f-00 TO TR/JC.k­lt1EMORIEP Pf?IVIN6 5CHOO/.. 
lt10TIIER. ONt:. PAY... 

Dave 
'WHAT ll!lll Bt OJ/,HEV! I'M YOUK ENCORE! ONE STEP AHEM liSt THt "8Df-OF YOU! PJt 
O-JtF!~VU'' AIREAIJI PO /T.,
T4 MAKE Wt tAll IT 
CASSElOlE r ''IIIINGAfJ/1/11,
Jl£II, HEll! N~P/JLE IJAKf,;, 
~~ 
12 p.m. -Lecture, "Values in the Law," Prof. Loren Smith, 1 0 1 Law School 
12:10 p.m. -Art Noontalk, "jacopo De Bar­bari's Christ," Dr. Charles Rosenberg, Annenberg Auditorium 
12:15 p.m. -College of Science Lecture, "Immunologic Senscence in Experimental Animals," Dr. Marc E. Weksler, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 
12:25 p.m. -Economics Workshop, "Federal Deficits and the Economy, Part II," Ed Hjerpe, Tawin Nilbai, and Sharon Terrell, Library Lounge 
2 p.m.-Baseball, NO vs U ofIllinois, Jake Kline Field 
3 p.m. -Tennis, NO Men vs Butler, Courtney Courts 3:15p.m. -Tennis, SMC vs Bradley, Angela Outdoor Tennis Court 
3:30p.m. -Softball, SMC vs Grace, Angela Ath­letic Facility 
4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "The Chemistry of Dis· coordinate Boron and Related Aspects," Prof. Dr. 

H. 
Noth, 123 NSH 


4:30 
p.m. -College of Science Lecture, "Immunologic Senescence in Humans," Dr. Marc 

E. 
Weksler, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 


6:15 p.m. -Graduate Support Group for Women Meeting, Wilson Commons 
6:30p.m. -Lecture, "Sexual Transformation in Buddhism: Must I be Reborn as a Man," Collett Cox, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Women in Theology 
7 p.m. -Film, "Innocence Unprotected," O'Shaughnessy Loft 
7 p.m. -Lecture,"Age and Resistance to Ocular Infections," Dr. Linda Hazlett Dandero, Sponsored by SMC Biology Dept., Carroll Hall 
7 p.m.-Film, "Aguirre, The Wrath ofGod," 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
7 p.m. -Lecture, World Hunger, Warren Bur­meister, Library Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. -Lecture, "American Presidents: Richard Nixon," Max Lerner, 100-104 CCE 
8:15p.m.-Concert,james Depogny,Jazz Piano Recital, Annenberg Auditorium 
Tuesday, April 10, 1984 -page 8


S~orts 
Good action, not clowning, marks third day of Bookstore XIII action 
By PHIL WOLF thusiastic Sexual Cowboys pullt-d off 
.\jJOrts Writer the upset with a great team effort. 
"This is what Bookstore is all 
Oftt·n the early rounds of about," commented the Sexual 
Bookstore Basketball arc the most Cowboys' captain, Greg Niklas. "We 
~:ntcrtaining, as several teams with gavt· it II 0 percent. It was pretty in· 
littk basketball ~:xpericnce and a lot tense." 
of nt·at ivity takt· to the courts to "We'll take this one game at a 
show thdr stuff. Yt·sterday, time," he explains. "You've got to 
howevt·r, tht·r~: wt·r~: some very respect the opponent, and if we win, 
good gamt·s and very little clowning. we'll be celebrating." 
Probably the best game in yt·ster· Pat Pavlansky led the Sexual Cow­
day's 11rst-round competition was boys with 8-14 shooting and seven 
th~: gamt· in whkh King Charles and rebounds. Greg Golic and Mike Kel­
tht· Sexual Cowboys downed No­ley ( I I rebounds) each had five 
nt-cked Removl'fs of Other People's points for the No-necked Removers. 
Limbs, 21-1 :~. Bookstore commtsswner Jeff 
The No-necked Removers, a team Blumb said ht· was pleased with yes­
of varsity football players, was heavi· terday's results, and he is looking 
ly titvornl in this 6: IS p.m. game on forward to today's gamt·s. 
Stc.:pan court ·1. hut the smaller, en· "Besides the quarter-final round 

Strong offensive line enters year experienced 
ByJERRY MELIA against Michigan State which caused .\jwrts Writer him to miss the Miami game. Follow­ing this game, he shared time with 
The outlook for the 1984 Notre Tom Docrgcr for the next three Damt· offensive line can be summed games until he regained his starting up in two words -strength and c:x­job for good beginning with the USC perience. game. 
The Irish will greatly miss the ef­Anothl'f former tackk and letter­forts of three-time letterman Neil man, sophomore John Askin ( 6-6, Maune at strong guard and four-time 271-lbs. ), will provide backup for letterman Mike Shiner at quick Williams. The Irish have additional tackle. Although they will be lost to depth in junior Tony Piccin (6-3, graduation, there is more than 275-lbs.) and sophomore Art enough bulk present on the team to McGlothen ( 6-3, 290-lbs. ), who fill their rather large shoes. moves over from the defensive line. 
At the center position, Notre Excellent size, depth, and ex­Dame has what Head Offensive Line perience can also be found at the of­Coach Carl Selmer calls "the best fensive tackle positions. Junior Tom ct·nter I have ever coached." This 6-Doerger ( 6-5, 272-lbs.) will probab­S, 226-pound senior was voted ly earn a start at the quick tackle Notre Dame's outstanding offensive position although he will receive player for 1983 hy his teammates. much competition from junior Ron After switching to center last spring, Plantz ( 6-4, 271-lbs.). Kelley started all twelve games in Doergcr is a swingman on the of­the 1983 season. fensive line. He has filled in at guard, 
Kelley started the final two games tackle, and center in the last two of the 1981 season at guard, all seasons. This third-year player was eleven games at quick tackle in rcd-shirtcd for the 1981 season after 1982, and played more minutes than surgery was done to repair torn liga­any other offensive player in the ments. He saw limited playing time 19H3 campaign. in his rookie season, but in 1983, he 
Senior Robbie Finnegan ( 6-3, 246-played in all eleven regular season lbs) will provide hackup at the cen­games. He started at quick tackle for ter position. Another senior, Kevin three games (Colorado, South Kdly ( 6-0, 221-lhs ), wit snap for the Carolina, and Army) replacing the special teams. injured Tim Scannell. He also filled 
Tht· Irbh are particularly deep at in for Mike Perrino at the strong the offensive guard position. tackle position for the Pittsburgh 
Tht· loss of Nl'il Maune represents game. Doergcr is a physical player tht· only ofti:n~ivt· starter to ht· whose many talents on the offc:nsive rcplacnl. This will he accomplished line has shown him to he a valuable hy moving st·nior Larry Williams ( 6-asset to the Irish. <>, 286-lbs.) from tackle to fill this hig 
see FOOTBALL, page 6
hole. It is ht·re wht·re Williams 1.:an 
By MARY SIEGER we could have," she said. "But it's Sports Writer hard to be motivated for every match." 
The: Notre Dame women's tennis The Broncos fielded a solid lineup team left Kalamazoo, Mich., with its on Friday and the Irish were over­spring record slightly tarnished, but powered in the top two singles posi­got back on track to post a 1-1 tions. Even though junior Laura Lee record over the weekend. and freshman Joanne Biafore, at the 
On Friday,' the Irish lost to Wes­number five and six singles posi­
tern Michigan, 6-3, but rebounded tions, defeated their opponents, the on Saturday to defeat Western Il­Irish effort fell short. linois, 9-0, giving the Irish an 8-2 After her stunning play against spring season record. Western lllinois on Saturday, Biaforc 
Friday's loss to Western Michigan remains undefeated in the spring was a disappointment to the team season. "Joanne has been playing since it wanted to avenge its loss to well all season," said Lafratta. "She's 
the Broncos this fall in the Irish In­working hard and we can always vitational Tournament. count on her." "It was dose in the doubles "She played okay in the fall, but 
matches and we thought we could now she's always the first off the win," explained Irish co-captain Lisa court," said Roemc:r. "Shc:'s very l.afratta. "We did have the ability to positive and very motivated and al­
beat them." ways docs the extras." 
Sophomore co-captain Greta Against Western Illinois, the Irish Roemer attributc:d the loss to a com­overpowered their opponents. bination of factors. "It's disappoint­None ofthe matches were close:, and ing because we didn't play as well as according to Roemer, the Leather-
use his tremendous sizt· and strength to his best advantagt·. 
At Illinois State 
Williams was an Irish standout on tht· otknsive line in 1983 and earned second-team All-America 
Injuries hinder men's track team
honors from The Football Nf!U'S for 
his efforts. Like Kdky, Williams has 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 

a great tkal of expnicncc. In 1981 
Sports Writer 

he participated in t(>ur games, main ly at guard. As a sophomore, Wil­The Notre Dame track team 
liams started t·very game at the traveled to the Illinois State Invita­
strong tackle position while playing tional Saturday and was upstaged by 
more minutes than any other of­both Illinois State and Iowa State in 
fensive player for that season. 
their second straight non-scoring 
The Irish are also well established meet of the outdoor campaign. 
at the quick guard position. Return­"We were fair at best," said coach 
ing junior starter Tim Scannell ( 6-4, Joe Pianc. "I expected to do better, 
277-lbs. ), will try to stay away from but it just wasn't a good day." He 
tht· injuries that have affected much points to tough practices and in­
of his carn·r at Notre Dame. In his juries as part ofthe problem. 
rookie season, Scannell was the only Piane noted that Greg Bell 
freshman offensive lineman to earn a 
developed a slight muscle strain and 
monogram. lie rebounded rather that junior Tim Cannon was injured 
well from his arthroscopic knee sur­at the meet. Standout sprinter Van 
gery a year ago to participate in ten Pearcy, who was the sole Irish track­
games in 1983. 
man to compete in the Texas Relays, 
At the heginning of last season, suffered an injury in the 100 meters. 
Scannell had the starting position Co-captain Andy Dillon: "We had 
until he suffered another knee injury been running hard all week and it showed. Our legs were dead." 
The Irish joined lllinois State, Iowa State, Southern lllinois, Wis­consin, Drake, and Bradley in the seven-team competition. 
In the running events, Notre Dame's 4xl00-meter relay foursome of James Patterson, Bell, Mitch Van Eyken and Dan Shannon thundered across the finish line with a 42.5 clocking to give the Irish their only first place 11nish of the day. 
Individually, Shannon finished a strong second in the 400-meters, with a time of48.0 seconds, just get­ting nipped at the tape. Van Eyken placed fourth in the same event (48.7). 
It was Shannon and Van Eyken once again in the 200 meters as the duo placed third and sixth, respectively. Shannon crossed the line with a time of 22.2, just. one-
tenth of a second behind the 11rst­
place finisher. In the 800 meters,Jim 
Tyler turned in a 1:54.1 clocking, 
good enough to secure a fifth place 
finish. 
Irish junior Bill Courtney turned in a solid outing in the 3000-meter steeple chase. His time ol 9:23.5 earned him a second place finish. 
The javelin remains one of Notre Dame's strongest suits in the field events. Steve Demartino was the top contender with a 165 foot, one-half inch throw. Other Irish who placed in the top six were Dave Crandall ( 161-1 ), Andy Ferguson ( 154-one­halfinch), andJim Hoff( 151-6). 
In the long jump, Patterson, a junior, placed third with a 22-foot, ten and three-quarter inch effort. His leap_ was just three inches shy of the winning mark. 

and on, today's game between the Esophagus Constrictors and Old Men on the Block is the bookstore game to sec," Blumh says. "It should he very entertaining." 
Old Men on the Block features 

Gerry Faust and assistant football 
coachc:s Ron Hudson, Mike Stock, 
Andy Christoff' and Bishop Harris. 
Constictors captain Dave Sullivan 
says his team will not fall to the 
middle-aged coaches, as it did last 
year. 
"\X'e'rc going to rely mostly on plays we used last year and a few new tricks," Sullivan says. 
Last year, the Constrictors employed a "Ghandi Defense," which involved laying down when the Old Men had the ball, and the Constrictors will continue their use of passive resistance today. 
In the Hall of Fame Game last Friday, IOK Caloric Champs Fastbreakcrs ate constantly during the game, and, according to Sullivan, this is not a good strategy. The Con­strictors, therefore, will stage a hun­ger strike for the duration of the game. 
Games will be played all after­noon today at Stepan, Lyons, and bc:­hind the bookstore. The Esopagus Constrictors and the Old Men on the Block will perform their antics at 
6:1 5 p.m. on Bookstore court 9. 


Irish look for more consistency as tennis team splits weekend matches 
Th(.' Obst.·rvcr/Lev Ctupdsky 

First singles player Mike Gibbons backhands a return in yester­day's match against Western Michigan. The Irish upset/be Broncos 5-4, and today face Butler at Courtney Tennis Center. The action begins at3 p.m. 
necks did not appear to take the match seriously. 
"Three of their players walked onto the court wearing walkmans," said Roemer. "I've never seen that before in college tennis." 
Although the Irish easily defeated the Leathernecks, Western Illinois did test Notre Dame's concentra­tion. "They were hard to play, " said Roemer. "We didn't know what to expect from them." 
After Friday's loss to Western Michigan, tc:am mc:mbers met in their hotel to discuss how to im­prove their play and work together as a team. "We openc:d the doors of communication," said Roemer. "Although we haven't seen the results yet, it should have an impact on the season -the only way to win is to pull together." 
Last wcckc:nd's matches were im­
portant for the Irish bc:cause itn 
showed the tc:am areas where it 
needs to improve. "We want to get 
our consistency down," said I.afrat­
ta. "We'll be hitting a lot of tennis 
balls between now and our next 
match and try to figure out why 
we're missing shots." 
Roemer believes the Kalamazoo trip built conl1dcncc on the team and will motivate the team to work harder. "The more matches we play the more we realize how good we arc," said Roemer. "Western Michi­gan will help keep our noses to the grindstone, and as a team we can't assume we will beat them all." 
The Irish start a long series of matches starting tomorrow as the Irish host Bradley. On Thursday, the: Irish face Northern Illinois at 3:30 in the ACC. Although both teams have shown improvement, the Irish ex­pect victory over both squads. 
This weekend, the Irish travel to 
Ohio, where the team will compete 
in three difficult matches. On Friday, 
the Irish will face Bowling Green 
and on Saturday, the team will play a 
douhleheader against Miami ofOhio 
and Central Michigan:·· 




