Strike -page 3 


VOL XIX, NO. 19 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1984 

U.S. awaits return of detained sailors 
.Usoclated Press 18; first mate Mark Halpin, 20; cook Charles Burrall, 29; and deckhand 
NOME, Alaska · Diplomats and Tony Miller. AU live In Homer, anxious relatives waited on land yes­Alaska. terday while a Coast Guard cutter Coast Guard spokesman Dan ~ailed to the edge ofSoviet waters to Dewell said from juneau, that a 
·~·· £'

pick up five American SC'amen held Coast Guard C-130 carrying !lbout ,.,..,.'
. . 

In Siberia for the past week. 30 reporters and photographers was 
'• 

The five were detained when en route from Anchorage to Nome, their 1.20-foot supply ship, the where they would wait for the ')-;..-1·..
''...1·' ·'

· Frieda K. apparently wandered Into release. \~ 
. . ...

Soviet waters near the Diomede Is· Dewell said the five sailors and ( . lands In the Bering Strait and asked a their ship could be taken either to --. Soviet naval vessel for directions. Nome or Gambell on Alaska's St. They had been held In a hotel at Lawrence Island. The C-130 would Vrellk In Siberia. not land on the island unless there 
·~ 

The 3 78-foot cutter Sherman, was life-threatening emergency, based in Alameda, Calif., was Dewell said, because of the condl· \diverted from a routine fisheries pa· tlon of the runway there. ' trolln the southern Bering Sea to the The Frieda K disappeared while 
-... 

rendezvous area, where the interna­returning to Nome after taking fuel 
The Oboerver/SheUo Burke 

tional date line slices between the and water to the Digicon Explorer, a 
Dogbooks Fetched 
Soviet Union and St. lawrence Is· seismographic research ship "Dogbook Party" held in Haggar College Cente~·. land. working In the Chukchi Sea, said Saint Mary's freshman Katy Englehart, Trlcia Previously, the books were distributed at 
The exchange had been set for Alistair Caroll, marine supervisor for Hug andHeather Hypes examine this year's Fresh­LaFortune Student Center and the change ofloca­about noon EDT yesterday, but it Digicon Geophysical Corp. of Hous· man Register. The registers were distributed at a tion was tbe cause ofsome confusion. was postponed until later In the day, ton. the Coast Guard said. The reason for The Frieda K Is owned by Kemp the delay was unclear. Paluccl Sea Food of Duluth, Minn. 
lbe weather in the rendezvous John Hughes, a State Department 
College Board announces largest
area was reported to be fair, with spokesman, said the Americans ap· swells running to four feet, the Na­parently lost their way and sailed tional Weather Service reported. toward another ship to ask dlrec· 
increase in SAT scores since 1963
The: seamen arc: skipper Tabb see SEAMEN, page 4 
Thoms, 25; engineer Tate Thoms, .Usoclated Press crease at a political rally In Water· educators have: voiced concern bury, Conn., but said, "It's not lately over the steadily declining NEW YORK · Women and future enough. We've got to do better." calibre of new teachers. teachers were among the biggest "Significantly, the increase In this Hanford said the nationwide gains 

Workshop conducted 
gainers as average scores on the year's math average can be attrib· meant that "Instruction In the Scholastic Aptitude Test registered uted largely to women, whose schools has been Improving and their largest rise In two decades last scores rose four points over 1983, high school students are giving
for food sales workers 
year, The College Board announced while men's rose by two," said Col· greater attention to academic By DIANNE MCBRIEN McCauslin also said that there wlll yesterday. lege Board president George H. Han· study." But he: added there's a long Neu>sStaff be impromptu Inspections through· Average math SATs were up three ford at a news conference. Women way to go before: schools made up 
out the year, probably at least one points to 471 in 1983·84, while still trailed men, however, with the losses In test performance: over 
Dorm food salc:s commissioners per semester. average scores on the verbal section males averaging 495 in math, the last 20 years. received Instruction In health and St. joseph County Health Depart· of the exam rose a more modest one compared with 449 by women. The erosion in average SAT scores safety procedures Tuesday night in a ment officials had asked his depart· point from the previous year to 426. has been cited as proof that public workshop given by Mike: McCauslin ment to hold the workshop, said The S~T exam is scored on a scale of Iowa led the nation with average education has deteriorated. Hanford of the: Notre: Dame Environmental McCauslin. The Office ofStudent Af. 200 to 800, with 800 a perfect score. math scores of')70 and verbal scores insisted, however, that "SAT scores Health and Safety Department. fairs supported the Idea, he added, Nearly a million college-bound high of 519 . but only 3 percent of that do not paint a complete picture of 
Commissioners received and dis· and student senator Dan McNamara school seniors take the SAT each state's high school graduates took the state ofAmerican education." cussed a sc:t of sanitation rules to be "was Instrumental" In producing the year. the exam last year. South Carolina, observed by all food sales opera­workshop. Verbal score averages were up in where 49 percent of high school Scores on both math ;md verbal tions. Regulated areas Included Food sales commissioners had 32 states, fell In eight and were un· graduates took the test, scored the SATs have leveled off during the last 
five years, following 20 years of

length of storage time: for di1Jerent mixed reactions to the workshop. changed from 1982·83 In 10 states. lowest average · 419 on the math, foods, conditions of storage areas Co-commissioner Rose Apodaca of Math scores rose In 37 states, and 384 verbal. nearly uninterrupted declines. The: and cooking equipment, personal lewis said that some recommen· declined In 11 and were unchanged Particularly encouraging In this 1983·84 results marked the first sig· hygiene of food sales workers, and In two, the board reported. year's results, said Hanford, was that nlficant move upward In recent garbage disposal. see WORKSHOP, page 4 President Reagan hailed the In· seniors expressing an Interest In years. majoring In education Improved The mllllon seniors who take the their math performance by seven SAT represent a third of their high points to 425, and by four points to school class, but two-thirds of those 398 In the verbal section. Many who go directly to college. 
Campus T-shirt shop opening within a week 
ByJENNIFER MILLER having to find transportation to one N•wsStoff of the malls. The convience is one of the best things about the shop." 
The new student managed T-shlrt In addition to the convlence, shop should be opening in Abood feels that the prices will be LaFortune Student Center within a "more than competitive" and hopes week. It will be located at the former that the shop will maintain these location of the campus press In kinds ofprices In future years. LaFortune. 
Student Seriator Tom Abood ex­Bob Cox, manager of the soon-to· plained, "the shop will sell more open shop. emphasizes that In addl· than just silk-screened T-shlrts. tlon to selling sportswear, the shop 
There will be a wide assortment of will be able to provide dorms and clothing from retailers such as Jans­student organizations with T-shlrtsFill 'erup Sport as well." with their own logo on them. Abood went on to say, "the shop Is The shop will be managed by stu· 
I.ake Mt1rlan on Saint Mary's campus is repaired. Further improvements included repair­
convlently located on the campus, dents as the Irish Gardens is and the
reftlled after being empty since june 4. Tbe lake ing the bridge, adding a new fountaitl and in· 
so students will have the opportu· profits will be funneled back Into the 
UJ(lS emptied so that tt could be cleaned and stalling a lower drain. 
nity to make purchases without student activity board. 



----~­

The Observer Thursday, September 20. 1984-page 2 


. 


In Brief 
Saint Mary's Freshman Advisory council 
members elected yesterday are: Trisha Anton, julie Baer, Kathleen Bock, Anne Borgman, Shari Gillig, Lisa Hamann, Karen Hanson, Moira Michiels, Patti Petro, Lorie Potenti, Meghan Rafferty, Mary Ryan, and Angie Peeples. 56/ ofthe Saint Mary's freshman class voted in the election. -The Obseroer 
A tough choice faces Floridalegislators with 
the passage of the recent national drinking age, says Forbes Maga­
zine. They can refuse to raise the drinking age to 21, and lose some 
federal highway money; or raise the drinking age and risk losing 
more than $130 million spent each spring by vacationing college 
students. -The Obseroer 
Aman with a knife concealed under his pant leg was arrested yesterday as he tried to approach Democratic presidential nominee Walter Mondale at a noon rally, the Secret Service said. Rich McDrew, agent in charge of the San Francisco office of theSe­cret Service, said the man wa5 spotted at the start ofthe rally in justin Herman Plaza by agents and police officers who noticed he was "kind ofa shouter" and was trying to work his way to the front ofthe line to get close to Mondale. The man was not immediately identi­fied. As the man approached the candidate, the man "pulled up his pant leg and a police officer and agent noticed a strap around his leg ... It turned out to be a holster with a knife in it," McDrew said. The man was arrested for possession of a concealed weapon, McDrew said. -AP 
Of Interest 
A Judicial Connell Meeting will take place 
tonight at 7 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. -The Obseroer 
The security department is holding a public 
auction tonight at 7 p.m. at Gate 11 of the stadium. The property to be auctioned will include bicycles, calculators, watches and other miscellaneous items that have been lost or abandoned on campus. ­
The Obseroer 
Applicationsfor the 1985 Indiana Senate Majority Intern Program are now available to interested sophomores, juniors, seniors, and graduate students. Interns are assigned to Republican senators, assisting them throughout the session with constituent correspondence, bill research and analysis, media relations and committee work. rnterviews for the internships will be held Oct. 15 in the Senate Chambers. For more information, contact Dr. George Brinkley ofthe political science department.-The Obseroer 
A voter registration drive is being held by the 
Student Government Lobby Commission. Students may register to vote in the Nov. 6 election in St. Jqseph County ifthey are not regis­tered to vote in_their home districts. Students who are registered to vote in their home districts should contact their local election board for an absentee ballot. Students may register with lobby members during lunch today and in the main lobby ofLaFortune from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Friday. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
Mostly sunny andwarm today with a high in the middle 80s. Tonight will be fair and cool with a low in lower to middle 50s. Tomorrow, partly sunny and pleasant with a high around 80 

The Observer 
The Observer (USPS S99 l-4000) is publbhed Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year ( >20 per se­mcster) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a mcmber of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ....................... Lev Chapelsky Design Assistant ......................... Usa Marie Layout Staff............. Mark, Mike, Caroline Typesetters ............................ Tracy and Ted News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor..............................Jane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoitlf Layout .............. Byron Stevens Features Copy Editor.... Marichris Dalum Features Layout.. ............. ..~ .. Sharon Houk ND Day Editor ................... Donna Gavigan SMC Day Editor...~. ~~ ........ ..-)ody Radler AdDesign ...... Suzanne, Marianne, Marina Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer 


Salad bars are more than a lot of fancy dressing 
The salad bar is a very trendy item to include on menus of fast food restaurants these days. Everyone, from Burger King to Wendy's to Ponderosa is jumping on the lettuce and crouton bandwagon. 
But who do these places think they're fooling? Notre Dame Food Services and SAGA Foodservice have·made saJ.ad bars a staple ofcollege culinary pleasure for many years now. In fact, the salad bar could probably be called the most popular item on the menu at almost any school. 
That is, it is popular with those who have never worked the salad bar at either school. Take it from a veteran salad bar worker: once you've handled, lifted, carri~d and replaced that stuff, you don't want to even look at it during non-working hours. 
However, the food is only one reason why working the salad bar is probably not one of the more popular jobs at either ND Food Services or SAGA. It's the stu­dents themselves that really make the phrase "take this job and shove it" very tempting to the workers. 
Notre Dame and Saint we have every day. Mary's students, take pity on The worse part of salad those who stock your salad bar is the abuse you have to bar. First and foremost, don't take from students, scream at us for missing however. The Farley junior I itc;:ms. There is nothing know had the rude experi­worse then an enraged Saint ence of a student approach­Mary's student confronting ing her in the middle of the you on the absence of ranch cafeteria and then launching dressing. into a tirade about the new 
Every salad bar worker walls in the North Dining knows the first thing you do Hall. Trying in vain to ex­upon getting to work is to plain that she had absolutely· examine the menu for the nothing to do with it, the meal you are working. That poor' girl was polite enough will give you an indication of not to punch him. I don't exactly how hard you will know what it is, but the 

be working. If you're lucky. the food will be worth eating, and the salad bar traffic will be light. However, if it is Chinese pepper steak night, watch out. 
Students start lining up outside the dining hall at about 4:I 5. It is truly pitiful to see them staring at you in anticipation, mouth watering, as they watch you eat. By 4:25, everyone starts to assume their places: server~. cold and hot food runners, silverware people, etc. The salad bar workers, cloth in hand, assume their posts next to it. At 4:30, doors open and the stampede begins. Ifit is the aforementioned, Chinese pepper steak night, students frantically wave ID cards at the checkers and head for the salad bar. 
This part always reminds me of the K-Mart commer­cial where the manager asks customers to please not run down our employees, cause "we really do need them." The rows are often three people deep as stu­dents grab in a frenzy at chinese noodles, mushrooms, cheese, etc. 
The popular items always keep us running. A salad 
Please 


support the 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 

SOCIETY® 
The best has a taste all its own. 

Bringoulyourbest.: 
~ 

~NICK & KENNY'S i 
f ~ *SPECIALS* i ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~
! MONDAY ......... PITCHERS $2.95 ~ ~TUESDAY ...... LITTLE KINGS 2 I $1 ~ ~WEDNESDAY .......... IMPORTS $1 -tc ~ THURSDAY............... 25~ BEER t -tc FRIDAY & SATURDAY ....... BANDS -tc 
~  & ASSORTED SPECIALS  ~  
-tc  -tc  
-tc  -tc  
-tc ~  (Formerly Nickie's)  -tc ~  


Theresa Guarino 
Assistant News Editor 
lnsi·de Thursday 
bar worker from Farley confirmed that cheese was their most popular item. At Saint Mary's cheese and those squiggly chinese noodles keep 'em coming back for more. 
Which is better, the salad bar at SMC or ND? The an­swer is usually whichever one you don't usually have. If I could stand to eat salad again, I would probably pick Notre Dame's. They have cheese and potato salad every day, plus their bacon bits are a brighter shade oforange than at Saint Mary's. ND students eating at Saint Mary's seem to like the mushroom, cucumbers, and cauliflower 
second sqmeone sees a 
SAGA uniform in the middle of the dining hall, it is a perfect target for harrassment. 
The funniest thing about the dining hall experience, at least at Saint Mary's, is the bulletin board where stu­dents can write complaints and comments on the food. Some ofthem are serious, some are funny, and some are downright hostile. A lot ofpeple don't even write com­plete sentences, just "more macaroni salad," and "less mayo in the tuna please." 
Please Mr. Luedtke and Mr. Hickey: keep those pasta nights coming -if only to save your salad workers from the ravenous appetites of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary salad eaters. 
The Observer ~is always looking for new talent. If you are interested in newspaper writing or newspaper produc­tion, stop up at The Observer o}­fice on the 3rd floor of LaFortune. 
~ 

The Observer 
Thursday, September 20. 1984-page 3 
Nobel winners predict 
1
extinction of mankind 
1 
A.'l!lodated Press Ehrlich ~aid. "I am a registered Re­
l 1 
publican but I cannot imagine a 

WASHINGTON · Nineteen Nobel Demo~;ratic candidate I ·would not Prize winners and the leaders of prefer over Ronald Reagan simply 1 about I00 of the country's environ­because Reagan pushes the wrong mental and arms control organiza­way on virtually every issue I'm in­1 tions joined yesterday in a warning terested in and seems to be totally that mankind faces extinction either disconnected from what's going on 1 through a nuclear or an environ­in the world. Ronald Reagan's 1 mental catastrophe "unless policies toward the environment humanity changes its ways." could shove us down the drain ~ 
At the start of a five-day confer­sometime in the next 50 to I 50 ence on "'lbe Fate ofthe Earth," they years." made public a policy statement The administration has responded declaring that an exploding popula­to such criticism by maintaining that 
l 
tion and the nuclear arms race are its strengthening of the U.S. military both threats to the future. will lessen chances ofhostilities, and 
"What nuclear war could do in 50 it has blamed Soviet intransigence ban Detroit Tuesd4y. The UAW struck 13 selected to I 50 minutes an exploding popu­for the breakdown of arms control GM locations when the contract expiredFriday at lation assaulting the Earth's life­talks. It has defended its environ­midnight. More detai[s below. support systems could do in 50 to mental record as being as good as I 50 years," says the statement, that ofprevious administrations. signed by winners of Nobels in 

Strike claims 30,000 more workers
physics, medicine, chemistry and "Nuclear scientists have given us cconmmics and 175 leaders of envi­reason to rethink all our old ronmental and peace groups. thoughts," David Brower, founder of Associated Press by UAW leaders before dawn, after others scaled back operations, idling 
Shaped at meetings in Washing· Friends of the Earth and one of the contract negotiations stalled at GM 8,000 non-striking members of the ton, San Francisco and New York country's best known conser­DETROIT· Thirty-thousand more headquarters in Detroit. They raised UAW and other unions. and in exchanges through the mails vationists, told the news conference. autoworkers joined the strike to I 7 the number oflocal strikes · I3 While GM has nearly S 12 billion over the last two months, the state· against General Motors Corp. yester· were called Friday when the na­of cash on hand, it is losing at a rate ment lays out a common course of "Six minutes from now, based on day, shutting down four more plants tional UAW-GM contract expired at of about S I SO million a week, said a<.'tion to influence national policy. the failure of a Soviet computer, the as the walkout began forcing layoffs midnight. David Healy, an industry analyst for 
Stanford University biologist Paul end of the earth as we know it could in related industries. Of the 1 7 sites now struck, I 5 are Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. in Ehrlich, an expert on population, be under way. It's a different bal­Two trucking companies said plants for final assembly of cars, New York. A nationwide strike called the conference "the most im­lgame and the rules need to be they were laying off hundreds of trucks and buses. would cost the automaker S250 mil­portant meeting that's ever been looked at again." workers because they were running GM's vast internal supply pipeline lion a week, he said. 

held on Earth." The policy statement, which is ex­out ofcars to ship. A supplier ofplas· was beginning to clog, leaving seats, Struck yesterday were the main 
He told reporters the session pected to be endorsed by the con­tic trim and panels said it was losing steering wheels, radiators, wiring Oldsmohile plant in Lansing, a Cadil· would not endorse a candidate in ference, says even a limited nuclear $300,000 a day from the strike. and other parts sitting on loading lac plant in Detroit, a truck and bus the presidential race but that he per­war involving ·only a fraction of Meanwhile, bargainers for GM docks at hundreds ofGM plants. plant at Flint, Mich., and a truck and sonally would back any opponent to existing atomic weapons "could and the United Auto Workers union One parts plant was closed and I I bus stamping plant in Indianapolis. President Reagan. He termed produce·enough smoke.and soot to continued trying to write a new na· Reagan blind to the threats of a nu­block out nearly all of the Northern tiona! contract for the No.1 
Babbitt calls federal deficits 
clear end to the world or a popula­Hemisphere's sunlight, plunging the automaker's 350,000 UAW workers, tion t·xplosion that will e·haust the planet for many months into a dark, ofwhom 92,000 are now on strike in globe's resources. lethal "nuclear winter" that could local disputes. 

'a crisis waiting to explode' 
"I make no bones about it," end human life. The new strikes were authorized 







BACK IN SCHOOL? 
WORLD BAZAAR HAS ALL YOU NEED 
TO MAKE IT HOME! 
FREE! 
PICK UP YOUR WORLD BAZAAR STUDENT DISCOUNT CARD TODAY! 
Just show us your student I.D. and we'll give you a Student Discount Card while supply lasts. 
Your Student Discount Card will offer you 15% savings, day in and day out, on all regularly priced merchandise in stock through .'V\ay 31. 1985! Stop in and pick yours up today. 
(:."::'] -=-1 ffi) SHOP EA'" _'( • OUANTmES LIMITED • LAYAWAY AVAILABLE ' -Scottsdale Mall 291-7492 4Jniversity Park Shopping Center 272-6861 

-·~BAZAAR"
A OMSION Of .......OAO.INC 
An Amazing Collection Of the World's Greatest Bargains 
Associated Press chairmen of the Roosevelt Center 
for American Policy Studies' task 
WASHINGTON· Congress should force on the budget. retract every pledge not to tinker "Reality must prevail.... It will take with Social Security, Medicare and a bipartisan effort to tackle the defi· deductions that benefit various in­cit," Babbitt said in presenting a six­dustries and interest groups, Gov. month study by the national policy Bruce Babbitt ofArizona said yester­group. • day. "Our plan is ba'ied on the princi­
Ple that federal tax breaks and 
And Mayor William Hudnut of In­spending benefits for individuals, dianapolis likened the huge federal businesses and government entities deficit to "fiscal child abuse" and should be linked more closely to said Democrats have to quit defend­genuine need," the study said. • ing cuts in entitlement programs Babbitt said continued huge while Republicans must stop resist­federal deficits are a crisis waiting to ing reductions in defense spending. explode and will exact a heavy toll 
Babbitt and Hudnut are co-on all Americans. 
$1.00 off any pizza.$1.00 One coupon per pizza. 
Off Fast, Free Delivery'" 
Plaza 23 Center 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
South Bend 
Phone: 277-2151 
Expires in one week. 
JTC NA 125 2650 
1 1984 Domtno's P1zza. Inc 



r 
The Observer Thursday, September 20. 1984 ~ page 4 
Mondale has abandoned tradition 

of Kennedy and FDR, Reagan says 
Associated Press and chain around America's neck." president, traveling around this na­Noting that Mondale unveiled his tion in a cocoon, not telling anybody 
Walter F. Mondale accused Presi­plan in Philadelphia, Reagan said he anything, not answering questions, dent Reagan yesterday of "traveling should have done so in Atlantic City, not telling us what he's doing, not around this nation in a cocoon," where there is legalized gambling. being around the American people," while the president told thou~nds In Stockton, Calif., Mondale again he said. of voters in the Northeast that called on Reagan to reveal his plan to Mondale has abandoned the tradi­reduce the federal deficit before the Two new Mondale-Ferraro cam­tion of "good and decent" Nov. 6 election. paign commercials made their Democrats such as John F. Kennedy "This country belongs to you and debut Tuesday night. One television and Franklin Delano Roosevelt. you've got a right to get answers ad shows a man digging a hole in his 
Reagan, confident of Republican right now," Mondale said. backyard, a takeoff on a Reagan ad­votes, stepped up his campaign to At a question and answer session ministration official's pronounce­woo Democrats to his side. At the before college students, Mondale ment that people could survive a Waterbury, Conn.. town green portrayed himself as someone open nuclear attack by digging an earth , where Kennedy delivered a speech to questions and Reagan as the oppo­shelter. "It's time to think about how in 1960, Reagan reminded the site. deep a hole we are digging for our­
r 
10,000 people there that he was "What we've got here is a Holly-selves," intones the somber announ­
r r 
once a Democrat and said, "It can be wood, question-free isolated cer. 
t a wrenching thing to change par­ties." 
~ 
But he added, "You can feel as if r you are abandoning your past. But I r tell you truly, the only abandoning l r see is the Democratic leadership
, 
abandoning the good and decent r Democrats of the JFK, and FDR and
, 
Harry Truman tradition." ~ In Hammonton, N.J., Reagan r derisively described Mondale's defi­r cit reduction plan as a "blueprint for r bondage" that would hang a "ball . 

Seamen 
continuedfrom page 1 
tions. 

"The vessel to which they sailed turned out to be a Soviet warship ... Instead of getting directions, they got arrested," he said. 
The Frieda K was due in Nome on Sept. 12 and was reported missing Friday. The State Department has lodged an official pro.test that U.S. of­ficials weren't notified until Friday that the Americans were in custody and weren't allowed to talk to them until Sunday. 
In a telephone conversation with Sen. Ted Stevens, Tabb Thoms said the Soviets repeatedly pressured the Americans to sign statements that they entered Soviet water intention­ally. 
Malin Jennings, an aide for the Alaska senator, said Thoms told Stevens tb~y had not signed the papers. 
Hughes also said that while it hasn't been established that the Americans were in Soviet waters, if th.:y were "clearly their voyage was an innocent one." 

Workshop 
continuedfrom page 1 

dations, such as the suggestion that all food sales operations buy from the same wholesale dealer, were im­practical: "We would all have to check our orders with each other ... it would be a pain." 
Peggy Hess, in charge offood sales for Pasquerilla West, wished that the workshop had treated its subject more thoroughly. "We just read over the rules," she said, "it wasn't very specific." Was the workshop worthwhile? "Not really," she said. 
Correction 

Because of an editing error, a story in yesterday's Observer incor­rectly stated the probable contents ofan upcoming memo from the Stu­dent Affairs office. 
The memo will reportedly state that when alcohol is served at a hall­sponorsed off-campus event, the business or group that operates the facility must sign a release agreeing to serve alcohol only to those over 
21. 

Also, a statement from PW Presi­dent Peggy Hess was incorrectly re­ported. Hess said it would be ridiculous to also hold the halls re­sponsible for serving alcohol only to those over 21. 
\"·· 


Get the scoop 


cl<J 

on The Observer's news depart­ment. If you've signed up for news at Ac­tivities Night, or if you're interested in joining the news staff, come to an organizational meeting, Thursday at 7 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Hall. If you've got a nose for news, check it out. 

The Observer Thursday, September 20. 1984 -page 5 
Economy shows signs of speedy slowdown 
A.'lsociated Press sured by the gross national product, 
for the current july-September quar-
WASIIIN<iTON ·Americans' per· ter. sonal income in August posted the Treasury Secretary Donald Regan smallest gain in three months while said he saw no reason to revise the new housing construction plunged administration's current estimate 
1.2.8 percent, the government said for growth around 4. 5 percent in the yesterday, as the economy gave fur-third quarter and 4 percent in the tht•r signs of a rapid slowdown. fourth quarter. He pointed out that 
The new reports sent many this would be half of the 8.8 percent economists scurrying to revise their pace turned in from january through predictions for economic growth June. for the rest of 1984, but the.Reagan ButAllenSinai,chiefeconomist'of administration said it was sticking by Shearson Lehman-American Ex­earlier forecasts. press, said the personal income and 
The Commerce Department said spending figures showed a Americans' personal income rose "surprisingly decided slowdown in 
0.5 pt·rcent in August, the smallest the growth ofthe economy." gain since May. He predicted third quarter 
'lbe rt·port showed' that growth at a 3 to 3.5 percent rate. Americans \\'f:re also not as eager to Other economists predicted the spend their earnings. Personal con-expansion would dip even lower to sumption spending rose by only 0.1 perhaps 2 percent in the third quar­percent, matching the meager in· ter. crea~e of July. Early in the year, "This is just a real weak quarter," spending grew a~ much as 1.8 per-said Michael Evans, head of Evans cent in a single month. Economics in Washington. "Every 
'Ibe government said construe· number we have gotten in the past tion of new homes in August few weeks has been lower than ex­plummeted to an annual rate of 1.54 pected." mlllion units, the lowest level since Analysts blamed· high interest December 1982 when the country rates for not only the slowdown in was beginning to pull out ofthe long housing construction but also the recession. decline in consumer spending. 
The housing decline was led by a Regan, at a news conference, said 
19.5 percent drop in construction long-term bond rates have already starts on apartments. Single-family declined somewhat and he construction starts posted their predicted that other rates including third straight monthly decline, drop-mortgage rates should go lower as ping 9.7 percent. the pace ofeconomic growth slows. 
While no one disagreed that the Housing industry officials were not new reports confirmed a marked as optimistic. s!Qwilown in growth, there was jack Carlson, chief economist for debate over how precipitous the · the National Association of Realtors, decline will be. said GNP growth could even regis-
The government is due to release ter a negative number in the first half . on today its preliminary "flash" esti· of 1984 "as high interest rates con­mate for economic growth, as mea-tinue to dampen economic growth." 

Anne Marie Kollman at last ~igbt's Saint Mary's A/cobol Awareness Week at Saint Mary's is programming board meeting. Dates are set for discussed by Katbi Hartweger, Andrea Sendi and Oct. 1 through Oct. 4. 

Henry to be executed this morning for murder of civil rights activist. 
Assodated Press 

STARKE, Fla.· The U.S. Sl\preme Court yesterday cleared the way for James Henry to die in Florida's electric chair this morning for the slaying ofa civil rights leader. 
Henry's execution was set for 7 
a.m. EDT, said Department of Cor­rections spokesman Vernon Brad­ford. 
The Supreme Court, by a 7·2 vote, 

PERM SALE! Includes cut, styling, conditioner Curls or body waves! New perm looks designed especially for you. Reg. $45 now $2750 
YOUR FATHERS MUSTACHE 
Family Hairstyling 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALl No Student Discount on the Sale Price 277-3770 
turned down a plea to spare Henry and allowfurther review ofhis case. 
The court also voted 8-1, with Justice William H. Rehnquist dis· senting, to deny a request by Florida officials to execute convicted child killer Aubrey Adams today along with Henry. 
Earlier yesterday, the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta decided to let a 24-hour reprieve it had granted Henry expire at 7 a.m. today, said deputy court clerk Brenda Hauck. 
"It means he can be executed law­fully anytime after 7 a.m. and before noon" when the warrant expires, said Assistant Attorney General George Georgietf. 
Henry, 34, is under his second death warrant for the March 23, 1974, murder of 81-year-old black civil rights leader Zellie Riley. 
Henry, a former prison construc­tion crewforeman, waited yesterday in an isolation cell near the death chamber for word on his appeal. 
"He said he's ready to walk either 
way," Bradford said from the state 
prison. "One way you walk'back to 
death row; the other way you walk 
to the death chamber." 

At a prison news conference Tues­
day, Henry said he was innocent in 
Riley's murder but apologized to the 
civil rights leader's family. 

"Most of all I would like them to 
know · and this is not an admission of 
anything · that I'm sorry for their 
grief ... I know that's not a whole lot 
but it's from my heart." 

Civil rights leaders, Including the Rev. jesse Jackson, have urged Gov. Bob Graham to spare Henry. Coretta Scott King, the wife of slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., wrote Graham Tuesday that "questions of racial motivation pervade this cao;e." 
The governor said he has not changed his mind about Henry's cao;e. 
SENIORS 
who have not yet signed upfor Senior Ponraits may do so this week by calling the DOME office 
239-7524 
evenings between 1 Gnd 11. 
Wbt iKniglJt& oftltt <ltastlt 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest minutes from campus:r;,·
$ 00 . 
272-0312 
-==-­
• '-.A I 

277-1619 ~ 
HAIRCUTS 
-,.,-; '·' l't-rra~"C Lane (St Rd. 25) 

Aero~~ trom Martm's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 

f~ ­
r The Observer 
t 
San Diego mayor indicted for conspiracy and perjury 

Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -San Diego Mayor 
Roger Hedgecock was indicted by a 
county grand jury yesterday on one 
count of conspiracy and 14 counts 
of perjury, ending a two-month in­
vestigation of Hedgecock's personal 
and campaign finances. 

Also indicted by the grand jury 
were). David "Jerry" Dominelli and 
Nancy Hoover, executives in the 
now-defunct ). David & Co. invest· 
ment firm, and Tom Shepard, 
Hedgecock's former political con­
sultant. 

The indictment was announced 
·by San Diego County District Attor­
ney Edwin Miller. 

Hedgecock's finances became 
news in February, when he revealed 
he had received a S130,000 loan in 
1983 on an oral agreement from 
Hoover. 

Shortly thereafter, the grand jury 
announced its investigation of the 
38-year-old mayor, and in May, two 
weeks before the mayoral primary 
election, he was accused in a civil 
suit of failing to report more than 
S357,000 in illegal campaign contri­
butions in 1983. 

The suit claimed the money came 
from Dominelli and Hoover of the 
now-defunct ). David & Co. 
Dominelli has been in jail since April 
28 on charges of bankruptcy fraud, 
criminal contempt and perjury in 
connection with the collapse of his 
moneytrading firm. 


Task force recommends intervention 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-A Justice Depart­
ment task force, calling family vio­
lence "the darker side of American 
life," yesterday urged the criminal 
justice system to "intervene 
vigorously" to protect its victims. 

"Child abuse, spouse abuse, and the abuse of the elderly, incest and child molestation are not matters of personal belief or how to deal with children or keep order in the house," said the repon. "They are crimes, they are prohibited." 
Attorney General William French Smith, who established the task force, promised to implement the recommendations of the nine­member panel and to coordinate that effort with the Health and Human Services Department. 
The task force chairman, Detroit Police Chief William Hart, noted that "a victim offamily violence is no less a victim than one set upon by strangers." 
"The legal response to family vio­lence must be guided primarily by the nature ofthe abusive act, not the relationship between victim and abuser," he said in a written state­ment accompanying the repon, written by the panel of law enforc­ment officials, psychologists and family experts. 
Specifically, the repon recom­mended that: 
-People charged with violent fam­ily crimes be arrested just as if there was no relationship between the vic­tim and the alleged attacker. 
-When no arrest is warranted, the investigating officer should file a repon on an incident. 
-Prosecutors cease requiring al­leged victims to sign a formal com­plaint against a close relative to initiate prosecution. 
-Victimized children be handled with greater sensitivity by prosecutors and judges. The panel proposed videotaping the testimony ofchildren so that they don't have to confront their alleged attacker in a counroom. 
-Judges jail violent abusers who inflict serious injury. ­
The grand jury investigation into Hedgecock's finances was suspended until after the June 5 pri­mary, in which the mayor failed to win a majority of the votes cast and was forced into a November runoff against fellow Republican Dick Carlson. 
The jury was considering allega­tions that the campaign money changed hands illegally through the political consulting firm of Tom Shepard & associates, which was working to elect He\lgecock. 
That transaction was alleged to have occurred prior to Hedgecock's victory in a 1983 special election called to fill the mayor's post after Pete Wilson left to become a U.S. senator. 
Hedgecock is a former county su­pervisor who has never lost an elec­tion. 
The lawsuit filed in May by Miller has been put on hold until the state Fair Political Practices Commission decides whether it will file a similar action. 
Hedgecock has alleged that Mil­ler, who supported the mayor's op­ponent in the 1983 election, filed the lawsuit in an effort to damage him politically. 
The mayor said in a recent inter­view that "nothing really criminally wrong has happened. There have been some late finngs of forms, mistakes that were clerical in nature ... but that's all that (investigators) are going to find." 

-~--~---~---­

Thursday, September 20. 1984-page 6 

AP Photo 
whenpolice received word ofa gunman along his motorcade's route. A man was arrested but bad nothing buta camera. Story is below. 




Camera, not gun, aimed at Reagan 
Associated Press 

HAMILTON TOWNSHIP, N.J. ­Police arrested a man along Presi­dent Reagan's motorcade route yes­steray after they received reports of a gunman on the Atlantic City Ex­pressway but all they found on the man was a camera. 
"It was not a gun. The guy had a camera and apparently he has been charged with a local violation," Se­




i6$fiaci 
SPECIAL $1 OFF Any Meal With This Ad 
********** 
Specializing In: 
. Smoked Fried Deliciously Thick 
* HICKORY RIBS *CHICKEN *PIZZA 
********** 
BEER and WINE 
Phone Ahead-Complete Carryout 
TWO LOCATIONS: 
1835 Lincolnway East, South Bend-Open 1days-288-8240 St. Rd. 23 &Bittersweet, Granger Closed Monday Only 277-3143 

Join your Classmates Peter'83, Joseph '84, Michael '85 Agostino 
The Best in Prime Rib,Steaks, Seafood 
OPEN Mon · Thurs 11 a.m • 2 p.m. 
Sat 5-10 p.m. 
602 S. Walnut 219) 232-2494 
cret Service spokesman Mike Tarr said. 
John Williamson, 28, of Hamilton Township, has been charged with in­terfering wi~ a governmental func­tion, alluding police, hindering apprehension and possessing an open alcoholic beverage container in a motor vehicle, according to Lt. Frank Lentz. 
Lentz said Williamson was stand­ing on the expressway, which is off limits to pedestrians, waiting to pho­tograph Reagan when the motorcade passed by. A motorist noticed Williamson and reponed to a state trooper that he saw someone walking on the highway and thought hehadagun. 
Hamilton police descended on the area and chased Williamson, who fled into a nearby wooded area. 
Reagan's motorcade was traveling from Hammonton, where the presi­dent addressed a rally, to the Atlan­tic City Airport. 

JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 
CHAIRMAN APPLICATIONS 
Available September 18-21 in the Student Activities Office. Applications are due on Friday, September 21. Interviews will be held Tuesday, September 25. 
Feoiu_ringLegends in Conce 
THE

TURTLES 
fat~r~~t flo &Eddie 
Happy Together •It Ain't Me Babe • You Baby • (You Know) She'd-Rather Be With Me • Elenore 
GARY


PUCKETT 
Woman Woman • Young Girl • lady Willpower • Over You • This Girl Is AWoman Now • Don't Give 1n To Him 
THE 


ASSOCIATION 

Celebrating their 20th Anniversary Cherish .Windy • Never My love • Along Comes Mary • Goodbye Columbus 
• Requiem For The Masses 


SPANKY

AND OUR GANG . 
like To Get To Know You • Sunday May Newer Be The Same • Sunday Morning •lazy Day • Give ADamn • Making Every Minute Count 
SUNDAY, OCT. 7 ·7:30P.M. MORRIS CIVIC CENTER 
TICKETS: $11.00 ALL SEATS RESERVED, ON SALE NOW AT CENTURY CENTER BOX OFFICE, NIGHT WINOS & JUST FOR THE RECORD (SOUTH BEND). SUPER SOUNDS &SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART) &J.R. RECORD SHOPPE (laPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE WITH MC/VISA 284-9111 



Showcase 
Thursday, September 20. 1984 -page 7 
Help is here for 'major' problems 
by Joe Kapitan 
features staff writer 
T atcly, I've notice.·<.! that many Lstudcnto;, not just freshmen, have no idea of what subject they want to major in. In the interest of helping these stu­dents, l have compiled a few observances on various areas of study. In this column, l will take a look at some of the liberal arts majors. Freshman engineering dropouts should pay close atten­tion. 
Philosophy Is a very Interest­Ing but very Intellectual major. To do well in philosophy, you should like to read a lot and take hallucinogens. There are two reasons for this. First of all, phi­losophy texts are based on the works ofancient Greeks who had a knack for writing in­credibly long and boring treatises. Second, philosophy majors spend much of their time proving that certain things do not exist. 'Ibey get a kick out of doing this, but it is very strenuous mentally. Ifthey decide they need a break, they simply prove that they them­selves do not exist, which is certainly a good excuse for blowing off classes and spending the rest of the day at the Dunes. After philosophy majors have proven that a substantial number of things do not exist, they graduate and enter the real world. Here, they make a career out ofdenying that certain prob­lems exist. In other words, they become politicians. 
Psychology is another inter­esting subject. The textbooks are much easier to read than those used in philosophy, and they have lots of nice color pictures and diagrams. Also, 
psych majors get to participate in experiments. Most of these, except for the ones held in the Radiation Building, are fun. An­other benefit of the course is that you get to find out what's wrong with your friends. Philos­ophy majors can't do this, since they have already proven their friends do not exist. If you become really good at diagnos­ing other people's illnesses, you can look forward to a career as a professional psychologist and make lots of money in places like California. Ofcourse, there's always the danger that you will find out what's wrong with your own mental health, which leaves you with two options: moving to the West Coast, or going to work for the government. 
No one, not even sociology majors, knows what sociology is. This is not their fault. Sociology is based on the assumption that no one understands anyone else. Ifyou can come up with some really bizarre theories, you will go far in sociology. Ifthey are both bizarre and unintelligible, you might get to write a textbook on the subject. People who can't speak English also do well in sociology. 
Ifyou are not interested in any of the above subjects, and still watch cartoons, the American Studies program is looking for a few good people. Ifyou would just rather sleep, try the Program of Liberal Studies. The word "morning" is not in the PLS vo­cabulary. Actually, I think that PLS stands for "Prefer Lots of Sleep." I'm not sure, but I think they have the right idea. 

by Scott Ebersol 
features staffwriter 
I
t was an August like any other at Notre Dame, filled with the heat and humidity of the Midwest, with old friends reminiscing, and with questions concerning the upcom­ing football season. But as the se­mester progressed as always, 13-year-old Narcisco "N.J." Jaramillo settled in to begin his college career. 
The University had been inter­ested in Narcisco from the moment he applied. The question remained, however, whether he was inter­ested in Notre Dame. "He began looking at several institutions across the country," remembers Admissions Counselor Don Bishop. "The academic challenges Notre Dame offers are not specifically different from MJ.T. or Harvard's, but, on the other hand, we believe Notre Dame can uniquely challenge any student." 
N.J. admits he was looking for an institution that would provide a challenging academic program and a good environment. "While the computer science program here is not as well-known as somewhere like M.I.T., I think Notre Dame offers the best general undergradu­ate program," he says. N.J. attended 
· Aquinas High School in Rialto, California and plans to major in math while at Notre Dame. A deter­mined student, N.J. has already 
decided to attend graduate school 
in computer science. It is not • 
surprising, as he has a computer 

sitting upon his desk in Cavanaugh. 
During the admission process, the counselors looked at N.J.'s application as they would any other. "His writing, indicated in his personal essay, represented one of the strongest overall applications," says Bishop. Notre Dame does receive a large amount of applica­tions from "three-year" high school graduates. Bishop comments, however, that most of these appli­cants do not actually finish the complete high school curriculum. "They just want to get out in most cases, and this was different with 
N.J." 

Bishop notes that N.J. was ready for college. "He needed to be stim­ulated. Too many times a student is merely told by parents or a high school counselor that he is ready for college." N.J. visited the campus for three days last year, and he went through a series ofadmissions inter­views. After these meetings, "there was a consensus from the admis­sions level," Bishop says, "that he was ready for the collegiate level of study and life." 
And it seems N.J. enjoys Notre Dame. He admits the people he has met have been great, and the oppor­
tunity to meet people from all over 
the country was a motivating factor 
in his final decision to attend Notre 
Dame. His high school counselor, in fact, is a die-hard alum. "And there haven't been any real problems in adjusting," N.J. happily says. "I just 
think of Notre Dame as another school --more work, more study­ing. I'm not pomesick... yet.' It appears Notre Dame made the·right decision in admitting N.J. "The key to the whole decision was his maturity," Bishop asserts. "An indi­vidual, especially at his age, can be very intellectual, but not mature enough to handle college life." Bishop hopes N.j.'s freshman year will be a "moving-forward" year, while the following years represent years of definition. "We really want him to take advantage of everything Notre Dame has to offer. He loves learning, and the faculty here truly enjoy someone like that." 
"There is a lot of tradition here, and I think I made the right choice in coming here," N.J. believes. His transition from high school appears to be going smoothly. Friends in Cavanaugh see N.J. as "one of the boys." 
It has been said that college is what you make of it, and it seems rhat N.J. will make the most of Notre Dame. And yes, he is enjoying Notre Dame life. Just before leaving his room, he smiled, chuckled, and said, "the girls are kind of nice too... " 
A domer has tea at the White House 
by Barbara Stevens 
features staffwriter 
L
ast Friday, while most Notre Dame students went to classes and ate lunch in the dining hall, Javier Oliva, senior government major, had tea with President Ronald Regan in the rose garden at the White House. 
As part ofa week-long celebra­tion ofl-lispanic Heritage Week, the White House and the National Hispanic Chamber of Commerce recognized, at a national level, Uispanic students who excelled academically. '[bey selected thirty students and six educators to come to Wao;hington to be honored by the President for their achieve­ments and to he distinguished a'i examples for other Hispanics. A 
• 
committee selected students who had shown outstanding achieve­ment in leadership, community service, and academics. 
Javier, the single Notre Dame student to receive this honor, hails from San Antonio, Texao;, where he attended his freshman year ofcol­lege at Saint Mary's University 
before transferring to Notre Dame. 
"I think I was chosen, first Qf all, because I go to Notre Dame which is known for its compl'titiveness," said Javier "and second, because of my involvement in politics." Javier gained national attention last sum­mer when he was chosen from 5,000 applicants to serve as one of five assisstant chiefpages at the Republican National Convention in Dallas, Texa'i. Cable News Network and several Dallas news stations interviewed Javier focusing more on him than the other pages be­cause Javier was a Hispanic serving in a position usually held by an affluent white. Javier doesn't think he was chosen because ofhis in­volvement in Republican politics. "There were Hispanics of both lines of thought (Republican and Demo­crat) being honored by the Presi­dent," he said. "We were recognized for our ethnic and not our political backgrounds." Javier was notified last Wednesday by Earnest Olivas, a White House staff 
member, who had called to inform him he had been selected to come to Washington and be honored by the President and receive an award. "I wondered Ifit was a prank at first," Javier said, "but he (Olivas) had the official tone of a guy who didn't want to waste time." A few minutes later, his doubt was erased when his parents called because they too had been notified. The next day, Thursday, Javier flew to Washington, D.C. The honorees stayed in the Shoreham Hotel near Georgetown, one of the Omni Hotels owned by Ted Turner. "The hotel was beautiful," remarked Javier. 
Thursday, Javier attended a mixer in Kennedy Center with the thirty other Hispanic students and six Hispanic educators including two college presidents. Thursday night, Javier was given two invitations for the President's private box at the symphony. "The box was a plush. dark-wine colored room with a refridgerator, and cxtra-cushiony seats," recalled Javier. "The presidential seal and pictures of the President adorned the walls." Javier's guest was his father, who had flown up from Texas. "It was 
funny to sit in the box," said Javier. "People in the audience kept looking up to see what important people were using the box this time." 
Friday, the honorees met at the White House. "It was thrilling to walk across the White House lawn," remarked Javier. "People. stood down on the sidewalk, on the outside of the fence looking in, and I was on the inside --in the place where history and news are made." 
'Ibe President spent about forty­five minutes with the honorees in the rose garden, recognizing them and presenting them with pins. 'I sat five feet away from the President of the United States," said Javier. "We drank White House lemonade and tea together." 
Although he's only been in col­lege for two years, Javier plans to graduate this spring, having picked up the remaining credits in summer school. Javier transferred from Saint Mary's two years ago because he wanted an opportunity to leave home in order to mature and face new responsibilities. "I wanted to attend a quality institution with a 
national reputation and excellence 
which would better my skills. I also 
wanted to keep within Catholic 
lines." 

"I'm proud of Notre Dame," said Javier. "People look at me through different eyes when they find out I go here. First, they're impressed because of Notre Dame's com­petitiveness. Second, they ask me 'How's the football team?'" 
Javier lives off-campus in his own apartment. "I have my own dorm," he quipped. "I like the comaraderie ofdorm life," he said, but he prefers living on his own. He does spend a great deal of time in 2-West Keenan. "Those guys are largely responsible for making my transfer here so good." When he revisits Notre Dame as an alum, he won't be able to claim any dorm a'i his home. "I can't point to a dorm and say I lived there, but I can point to Keenan and say I hung around in that dorm." 
Being personally congratulated by the President was a most memorable experience. "It wa'i a great honor and very thrilling to meet the President," said Javier. He paused. "I have a feeling we'll meet again some day." 
Drawing the line on religion in politics 
After having endured nearly two weeks of torate, but we're major enough to determine 
having my favorite TV programs pre-empted who gets elected. by the Democratic and Republican conven· As the religion/politics issue gains steam, dons, I was certain I had heard every Issue or both Reagan and Mondale have put them· psuedo-issue conceivable ardently endorsed selves at the palpable degree of risk. Each 
chances alienating one segment or another of the population. The ultimate effect is that some will end up misrepresented; failed byJohn Perez the very system of government that aims to serve all. It becomes clear that the fine line
guest column 
r between religion and politics must be drawn ,.. darker. Then, however, the pressing question 
becomes "Where?". or passionately denounced by one politician or another. However, one thing stood out as a john Perez is a junior in tbe College ofArts principle theme of the '84-campaign: religion. and Letters at Notre Dame and ts a regular 
contributor to tbe Observer. 
Religious Issues have probably assumed greater Importance and complexity In this presidential race than any other. Both candl· dates, Reagan and Mondale, have exploited re· ligion's emotional Impact to promote their 
Another statue gets kidnapped
political ends. At an "Ecumenical Prayer 
Breakfast" several weeks ago, Presidept Reagan remarked that religion and politics The resident director closes his door and tration to loosen up its new alcohol policy. brary. The ransom note said that Moses would are, and always will be, component and In· begins some latenight paperwork. Outside in Pictures have turned up showing Knute In a be returned when Notre Dame was once again 
separable parts of each other. He went on to the dark hall, a distant door opens slowly. A variety ofplaces, including Purdue University. number one. "Okay, so kidnapping the pieces of modern
declare that opponents of school prayer are lone head furtively peaks out, checks the hal· Hopefully, as in the past, Rockne will eventu· ally come home to his pedestal of honor. art was a mistake. But this time, we are going
"Intolerant ofreligion." Five days later, Walter !way, and signals to another conspirator. The Mondale retorted that "the Founding Fathers two figures slink down the hall towards their Something alarming is happening here at for the gold. We're going to steal the ..." spelled (religious freedom) out In great target. A small, bronze statue stands on a Notre Dame: Apparently, kidnappings are be· "You mean we're going to get ..." detall...ln the separation of church and state." pedestal near the rector's door; the univer· coming a new fad among practical jokers and "That's right, Touchdown Jesus and His Mondale further ripped Reagan by adding that slty's founder, and namesake of the dormitory, protestors alike. It is all centered on some· entire mural are next." "real faith Is personal and honest cast forever in bronze. The two culprits ap· thing called publicity; people like to attract This particular gang of pranksters was ap· and...uncorrupted by political interference." public attention to themselves or their cause. prehended by campus police who suspected 
Unfortunately, there is only one thing worse something was wrong. Apparently, the peace· 
Pompous speeches and flagrant piety not· than publicity · competition. ful sounds of jackhammers and explosives at· withstanding, we must keep In mind that Andy Saal tracted their attention around 3:00am. among the issues at the core of this election If this fad continues, all too soon certain Not too long after that, a phorie rang 
r are a group of public policy questions that partially paranoid people will begin competing with one an· somewhere In the Administration Building. r carry with them a strong religious flavor such other for public attention. After all, competi· "Father Hesburgh, Father Hesburgh! The as prayer In public schools, tax exemption of tion is a natural part of Notre Dame. Their Govenor oflndiana Is on the phone. Boy is he
r 
certain religious organizations, nuclear dis· proach, pause, and then lift the statue off of its daring feats of kidnapping will escalate in both upset!" armament, and, ofcourse, abortion. pedestal. "Come on Father Sorln, let's go for a size and complexity. At first, only small statues "Why, whatever Is wrong, my dear sir?" 
walk..." The time is the mid 1930's; and Father and busts will disappear. Then, when no one "Someone walked off with his Hoosier From these specifics arise several broader Sorin is kidnapped once again. cares about statue kidnapping anymore, Dome! The ransom note says they'll return it concepts. To what degree, if any, should Today, the statue of Father Sorin stands people will begin to hold larger things for ran· when Notre Dame gets a rematch against 
~ 
politicians mix religion with policy · making? proudly again in Sorin Hall. The statue no som: Purdue there ..." 
To what degree should religious groups In· longer goes for walks; its formerly hollow "Ohno!" As Kurt Vonnegut says, "so it goes ..." A fad is volve themselves In politics? For example, we shell and pedestal are now full of concrete. "What's wrong?" a fad, unless of course it's at Notre Dame. Then have the Catholic bishop~ 0fthe U.S. uniting to Father Sorin would rather crash through the "Look, up on top of the dome ... it. escalates to new proportions with a sense of support the nuclear arms freeze movement. oh;l floor of the dorm than go for anymore She's gone!" Police investigators later un­competition. Hopefully kidnapping will 
On the other hand, the fundamentalist Moral walks with students. covered that the culprits used hang gliders, remain what it is · just a fad, and not become a Majority endorses defense spending in· Kidnapping Father Sorin's statue used to be blow torches, and a blimp to do their dirty tradition. creases. Certainly both groups are entitled to a fun, little prank. Sometimes gone for years at work. Sometime in the not to distant future: promote their respective viewpoints, a time, the statue always seemed to find its A few months later, several outdoor pieces "Ohnol" however, things start to get troubling when way back home to Sorln Hall. Presently, of modern art vanished. No one really cared, "What's wrong, what's wrong?" interest groups attempt to force their views however, this trendy type ofpractical joke has however, since no one understood what they "Father Hesburgh's statue ...lt's gone!" 
upon others via politics. Says .the Rev. Jerry expanded to bigger issues. The bust of Knute were anyhow. And then a major blow was Falwell about the Moral Majority's newfound Rockne was kidnapped from its pedestal last dealt to the community: someone kidnapped Andy Saal ts a sophomore tn tbe College of power: "We may not be a majority of the elec· May. The ransom note called for the admlnls· Number One Moses from In front of the li· Science atNotre Dame. 
Cuomo outlines stance on religion in politics 
All day long, the skies were dramatic, dorsing Republicans by their appearances cal pressure to change the laws on divorce, for overthrow: John Brown's civil war, or the pouring rain and darkness, interrupted by with them at political events. He said, "Gee, I Instance. plots of the Hitler tyrannicides. Most short moments of bright sunshine. The tur· hope not, because then they would be con· The best way practically to support his own churchmen, and certainly most Catholics, did bulence reached the plane in which Gov. tradictlng themselves." This would "make a values, yet keep his oath ofoffice, is precisely a not take that position with regard to Hitler Marlo Cuomo was flying from New York to shambles of their own representation," since practical judgment. He thinks prayer, for ex· (even if they should have). Even more clearly, meet an early commitment to Notre Dame the bishops have issued a joint statement that ample, and persuasion carry more weight (e.g. they did not feel that way about slaves. I 
they do not endorse a particular candidate or on adultery) than trying to Introduce a law the studied in a Jesuit seminary that was built by r a party. A journalist pursued the matter: Aren't majority would not support. slaves, and once talked with a man in his r Garry Wills the bishops' own actions making a shambles of The most persistent questioning took two nineties who was born a slave of the Jesuits. r their stated attitude? "It is. not a shambles yet," lines. Why does he not actively advocate a How can Cuomo oppose the death penalty 
he said. Then he grinned: "pre-shambles." change in the ;~bortion laws? Because he does yet not try to change the abortion laws? For 
r outrider
r After the press conference, which was held not think the proposed constitutional amend· that he had two arguments, both sound. He 
r in a modern new building, we walked through ments would work. They would not only be thinks both the death penalty and an anti· University's theology department. Asked at the spongy night toward the school's famous ineffectual, in a society where the vast abortion amendment ineffective in the practi· the delayed press conference if, from the golden dome, fuzzily glowing. Under a moist majority of people do not think abortion is cal realm. Also, he gets a vote on the death rough plane flight, "you think you were gettin tree, a circle of anti-abortion protestors was murder; they would cause hatred and conflict matter · his veto, which the New York a message," he said he had been sabotaged all quietly reciting the rosary. We went into a in which religion itself · the opportunity to Legislature has not overriden. As governor of 
, evening, spllling orange juice over the text of building next to the main one, whose small preach, teach and give example · would be an New York, however, "I cannot vote out of his talk. auditorium · Gothic graining and tracery at even greater victim than would respect for existence Roe against Wade." 
r 
Later, in response to a question, he said: the windows, but classical pilasters along the the law. It was a thoughtful performance, a thousand •r "Oh, I am not God. Ask someone higher than wall holds only 600 people. A spillover crowd The second argument was the " unbearable times more nuanced than John Kennedy's
r 
me, whoever spilled the orange juice." Actu· would watch the talk on closed·clr· cult TV. evil" one. In some cases · slavery, genocide · simple distinction between his faith and his
r 
~ 
ally, Cuomo need have no fear about The heart of Cuomo's argument is that he is must one oppose the government with all oath back in 1960. It will not satisfy the meterological provldences · farther up on the a loyal Catholic opposed to abortion, divorce, one's force? Cuomo was not as sure in han· zealots. But nothing would. 
North American continent, it had been raining birth control, adultery and homosexuality. As dling this matter, because he di4 not show the
r 
on the pope all day. governor of New York, he administers laws questioners the full force of their own argu­Garry wms is a nationally syndicated col­
r 
Some reporters argued that the Catholic that facilitate the practice ofall those acts, and ment. It Is an argument for revolution, for umnist and ts currently a visiting professor bishops seem not only to be condemning can· the bishops have not tried to Interfere with his declaring the state illegitimate · not only for atNotre Dame. (C) 1984 UNIVERSAL PRESS dldates such as Cuomo and Ferraro, but en· doing so in most cases. He gets no ecclesiasti· advocating change, but for supporting an SYNDICATE 
·~----------------------------------~------------------------------------­
"ieVVP-_o_i~n~t~---------------------------------------Th__u_rs_d~ay~,_se~p-te~m~b~e~r_2_o~,1~9_B_4__~pa~g~e~9 
Does Cuomo really guarantee freedom for all? 
Judging by the applause Governor Mario Cuomo received last Thursday night, many seemed to approve of his position without seeing the contradictions within it. The fol­lowing criticism of Cuomo's belief in the 
Tammy Sestak 
guest column 
separation of private religious belief and public acts seeks to make evident what that position truly represents: the denial of freedom for all. 
Cuomo claimed that by not letting his private religious beliefs dictate his public decisions he ensures the freedom for all to embrace the religion of their choice. Accor­ding to Cuomo, "moral standards depend on a consensus view," for "we create our public morality by consensus, the community decides. "There are two things Inherently false in Cuomo's idea: one Is the suppression ofthe very freedom Cuomo claims to be preserving; the other Is the belief In a changeable body of laws based on majority opinion. 
Cuomo's conclusion, I.e., that his position results In religious freedom for all, was dis­proven by Cuomo himself. He began by em­phatically stating that he will not impose his personal rc:lgious beliefs on people: "Values from religious belfef are not part of public morality unless part of the community decides by consensus." Yet, when New York's Congress passed the death penalty statute, Cuomo vetoed it. One man overturned a deci­sion reached by representatives for the com­munity! Cuomo himself rejected community morality by consensus. 
Furthermore, he did so not because ofper­sonal religious belief In the sanctity of life, a belief based on God's laws and one which makes him subordinate and answerable to those laws. Instead, Cuomo vetoed the death penalty bill simply because, in words spoken Thursday night, "I took ,the position that It doesn't work. I'm against It so I vote that way · my vote is law." Cuomo's decision was based neither on religion nor the community's deci­sion. It was purely a personal belief, and not even a religious personal belief. The commu­
nity speaking through its representatives was 
silenced by Cuomo. 
Is this the "freedom for all" Cuomo guaran· tees? Is Freedom · religious or otherwise -one person's opinion overriding that of Congress? Yes, in this case, Cuomo's vote does save lives, but keep in mind that he never claimed he voted against the death penalty because taking life was wrong in and of Itself; the im­portant point is that he acted merely on a per­
sonal belief. This leads to the second flaw in Cuomo's position. 
If there are no unchanging laws, no mini­
mum number of absolutes which are always 
right or wrong, if law is merely the opinion of 
the "majority" at the moment, then the door is 
open for the minority to dictate the law · al· 
most any law they wish. 
Assuming that Congressmen usually vote to reflect the opinion held by the majority of their constituents, rather than according to their own personal beliefs ' religious or other­wise, Cuomo's veto revealed the power a few have over the decisions of the "many." And If those who can say "my vote is law" are not bound by a set ofunchanging laws dictated by God, then the majority of people will be bound by the laws of those few with power. The consequences are unthinkable. 
Yet, Congressmen do not always vote the way their constituents would have them vote, but, like Cuomo, vote according to personal belief, even mere opinion as opposed to a reli­gious conviction. Cuomo said, "even if God is gone, the important gift" (If there's no God, who gave us the gift?!) "is left us· life Itself, and society decides on how to protect it." But, if the absolutes of God's laws are absent from these rwo branches of government, then soci­ety may not be able to protect life. The 
destruction oflife · even to the point ofkilling 
all defenseless or useless people is not a dis­
tant possibility: it becomes an immediate op· 
tion. 

For example, instances of euthanasia have already gone unchecked: certain cases are "excused." But accepting something by sup· porting the idea behind it, and consequently allowing Its law to continue, is the first step toward makihg it mandatory. This is not to say a mandatory law will necessarily follow from the acceptance of "certain cases," but, the ac­ceptance of the principle is a prerequlslste for later enforcement to occur peacefully · and more Important · unnoticeably. If there Is no absolute law prohibiting the taking of any life, (prohibiting murder has never prohibited freedom of religion), then as a nation we arc: subject to the changeable laws of the few in power. No longer will there be freedom for all; we could be bound by laws which may someday call for our own dea~s. 
To avoid the enforcement of many laws based on the decisions of a few, we must ad­here to the few basic laws given to us by God. Either we acknowledge God as our "Celestial Party Chairman," or we give that title to our politicians . they canthen make laws based on personal beliefs without consulting God. 
Cuomo stated that "if God Is gone, the greatest gift is still left to us -life Itself." To disagree once more, Cuomo's position shows that if God Is gone, life Itself becomes subor· dlnate to changing laws based on the whims of a few. Realize what Cuomo's position actually represents before supporting it. 
P.O.BoxQ 
The students deserve decent parking spots 
DearEditor: 
I am writing this letter to bring your atten­tion to some of the new parking regulations that are being enforced for this semester. For years I am seeing off-campus students being pushed further and further behind as far as parking is concerned. For the last two years we are being forced to park near the Senior Bar and trudge all the way In because the prime parking spots were always taken by on­campus students who never moved their cars. I can appreciate the administration's concern for our health and I am sure Richard Simmons would approve of a need for a brisk lnvlgorat· lng walk In the middle of winter. But now I think that things have gone too far (literally). 
For this semester, the Lords-that-be have decided that because ofa new faculty building (Declo) the entire North end of the students' parking lot should be reserved for the faculty. The existing faculty parking lot is right next to this new lot and from what I could see over the years, It was never full. By my estimate, It's a 2-mlnute walk from the old lot to the Declo building. I may be being too harsh, but I don't think that the extra walk is going to hurt the faculty too much. 
I do not see the need for a new faculty lot for the simple reason that they haven't in· creased the size of the faculty -they have Just relocated them. 
For years, the traffic regulation committee has failed to appreciate one salient fact, viz., that the stadium parking lot services students from the Engineering, Arts & Letters, Manage­ment, Law and the Physical Sciences school. By my estimate that Is approximately 90 per­cent of University enrollment. And we have one parking lot from them. Now we are being told that we cannot have half of It because some faculty members are being relocated. This defies all logic. I would appreciate It If I could see some figures from the traffic regula­tions committee. Specifically, I would like to see the number of faculty members in the Declo building, the number ofparking spaces assigned to them by these new regulations, and the number ofstudents parking in the stu­dent lot. 
As an engineering major, I would be lm· mensely interested in seeing some statistical measures of the mean walking time from the parking Jot to the building of interest, of the faculty as compared to the students; but since scientific thinking Is a dirty word in this school, I know I am asking for the moon. I do not begrudge the fact that the faculty gets free parking and doesn't pay fines for the first five violations, but I do not see why I have to walk 10 minutes from the parking lot just so that some professor can reach his class in time. 
RajivDighe Graduate Student 
The Democratic Party is the party of hope 
DearEditor: . 
Chris Julka and Michael Quinlan are two perfect examples of the narrow minded, con­servative attitude that pervades this campus. Their self-righteous rhetoric should infuriate all Catholics and Americans. They show no understanding of the American political process. America Is a two party system whereby the people need to study all the views and all the stances of both parties and their respective candidates. I am a catholic, but I am also a liberal Democrat bacause ofmy religious beliefs. Julka and Quinlan take abor­tion and exploit It to its fullest In order to con· demn everything that Liberalism stands for. Let us not forget the bishop's pastoral letter on nuclear armaments which calls for a nuclear freeze. Walter Mondale Is a supporter of the nuclear freeze bill. Thus, if we apply Julka and Quinlan's reasoning of one Issue voting, we should, being Catholics, rally behind Fritz Mondale for It is Mondale who embraces the teaching of the Catholic church on this Issue. Abortion Is Indeed terrible, but likewise the 
destruction of all God's creation is mutually 
reprehensible. 
There are other issues in which Cuomo and the Democratic party espouse true Christian beliefs. Programs for the needy, like Food Stamps and aid to families with dependent children, have been slashed substantially un­.der President Reagan. And which party in 1948, led by the fiery Hubert Humphrey, dedi­cated its platform to the pursuit ofCivil Rights and equal opportunity for all Americans? The Democratic party of course. The Democratic party has been consistently aggressive In at· tacking racism. Let's also not forget it was the Democratic party, led by Hubert Humphrey once again, that established the full employ­ment act. It was Lyndon Johnson, also a Demo· crat, who sponsored the Job Corps which trained those people who would have been 
tomorrow's displaced workers. So while the 
Democratic party may be stumbling on the 
abortion issue let's also look where the con­
servatives fail to promulgate true Catholic 
ideals as well. We have but two choices, so to 
make the choice on one issue is wrong. 
To me the choice is clear, in the past and In 
the future, the Democratic party will continue 
to be the party of hope, compassion, and true 
Catholic beliefs. 
john Broden GraceHall 

Evan Farley displays a narrow opinion 
DearEditor: 

I do not wish to belabor the point, but I feel that Evan Farley must once again be addressed for tht: views he expresses In the letter en­titled "Clearing ·the Air..." in Tuesday's 
Observer. 

Farley, the specific political issues over which you and Michael Varga are wrangling Interest me very little. Yes, I am one of those apathetic Americans who rarely vote. Like so many people my age, I feel frustrated by a world of politics which seems far removed from my personal interests. So the budget is not balanced and the Pentagon spends a few hundred dollars on a hammer: as you and Varga have demonstrated, those issues can be rwlsted to the favor of either party. 
What concerns me is your unyielding con­viction that your position Is the right position. You accuse Varga of being "misguided" and state that his political views raise a "foul stench". Prose style aside, do you not see the narrowness ofyour views? Cannot you accept his Democratic/liberal viewpoint as one that differs, but Is nonetheless equally as valid, as your Republican/conservative view? 
The current belief by many that a conserva­tive outlook and an alliance with the Republi· can party somehow makes one a better American is hard for me to understand. We are a nation which prides itself In a freedom of expression and opinion that extends to all members ofour society. Does anyone else sec the paradox here, or is It just me? 
And, I will drive to Canada In the event of a war ifmy conscience so dictates, for I~ will be with gas which I buy. This Is a free society, Is it not? 
Michael]. English PlannerHall 

How will you define yourself, Phillips? 
DearEditor: 
In response to Robert Phillips' statements regarding the meaning of murderer, I would like to suggest the following: 
Let us Imagine, for a moment, the adoption of your scenario, Mr. Phillips. Let us further imagine that, In the course of things, it falls to you, personally, to perform the amputations that justice requires. My question Is this: having done your duty for a time, and upon finding yourself surrounded by a mountain of severed hands and "plucked" eyes, how will you define yourself? 
In that event, I wouldn't call you "inhuman," just a killer. 
Michael X. Ball Graduate student 

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor·ln·Chiel. Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager . . .. Dave Taiclet Managmg Ed1tor . . . Mark Worscheh Controller . . .... Manpat Horne 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. . Margaret Fosmoe Advertismg Manager . . Anne Culligan Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sarnt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily News Ed1tor Sarah Hdmrlton Circulation Manager. . . Jeff O'Neill reflect the polrc1es ol the adm1n1Slrat1on ol e1ther 1nSt11 ut1on. The news 1s reported as News Edrtor . Dan McCullough Systems Manager . Kevin Williams accurately and as ob1eCl1vely as poss1ble Unsrgned editOrials represent the oprnron Sarnt Mary's Edrtor . Anne Monastyrsk1 of a maJOrity of the Ect1tonal Board. Cornmentar1es. letters and the lnsrde Column Sports Ed1tor .. Mrchael Sull1van present the vrews of therr authors. Column spacers available to all members of the V1ewpomt Ed1tor . Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966
commun1ty. and the tree express1on ot vary1ng oprnrons on campus. through letters. Features Ed1tor. . Mary Healy 1s encouraged Photo Ed1tor . Pete Laches 

, __ 
Sports ~riefs 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Monday through Friday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -The Observer. 
An ultimate frisbee club is now being formed. The schedule will include weekend fall practices and spring games against Purdue, Ohio State, Michigan, and others. If interested, call Lance or Gerry at 1 588. -The Observer 
The skateboard clubwill hold a meeting tonight in the Lafortune Little Theater at 8:15 p.m. All members are urged to attend. Fo.r"'llore information, call Bob Guilday at 277-3877. -The Observer 
The ND women's cross-countryteam ran in the Hillsdale Invitational last weekend in Hillsdale, Mich. Julia Merkel, Allison Cameron, Elizabeth Vogel, Susan Wanchow and Kathleen Lehman were the top finishers for the Irish. Notre Dame will host the National Catholic Meet tomorrow. -The Observer 
Dillon Hallwill hold a pep rally tonight at 8 p.m. in front of the hall. Notre Dame coaches, players and cheerleaders will be featured. -The Observer 
Thursday, Septe~ber20, 1984-page 10 
The Domer Six-and three-mile runs will be held Sep­tember 29, and the deadline for entries has been extended through tomorrow. Finishers of the six-mile run will be awarded T-shirts, and three-mile finishers will get sun visors. Trophies will be awarded to the top finishers in both races. The entry fee is $3 for the six-mile run arud $2 for the three-mile run. -The Observer 
The varsity lacrosse teamwill take on a team of alumni this Saturday, September 22 at 10 a.m. on Cartier Field. Ad­mission to the game is free. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Clubwillplaysaint Mary's tomorrow at 4:30p.m. behind Stepan Center. On Sunday, the team will travel to Bloomington to take on Indiana University. -The Observer 
Joe Piane, Notre Dame track coach, has been named the Midwest regional chairman for United States Olympic Development in the area of track and field. Piane will be helping to coordinate plans to encourage and develop Olympic prospects until the 1988 games in Seoul, Korea. -The Observer 
The novice women's crew team will hold a meeting tonight at 8:30p.m. in the lobby ofLafortune. Hyou cannot attend, please call Mugs at 284-5073 or Elinor at 277-3920. -The Observer 
Notre Dame women's tennis 
Today 

vs. Wheaton 3:30p.m. Courtney Tennis Courts 
THE ANSWER IS 
f 

vn11 YOU 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 


Read Psycho Chicken 
Tb" Obsl'rr'er Nolrt: Dam<: offict:. localnl on the third flo<!r of LaFortune Srudt:nl Ct:nlcr. accepts dassitkd advertising from') a.m. until -t p m .. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saini Mary's offin·. localnl on lht: third floor of Haggar College Center, acn·pr-dassifkds from 12::\0 p.m. unlit 5 p.m.. Mon­day !hough Friday. lkadline for nt·xr-day da"itinb is _-\ p.m. 1).11 cla"ifieds musl he prt:paid. either in person or h1· mail. ( :hargt· is I 0 cents per fi\'t: charac­
Classifieds 
ltTS er day. 

LOST: NAVY BLUE 'JANSPORT' BACK­I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO Need 3 Colorado Tix -GA's
STUDENT TICKET PACKAGE for sale, We/come to the kingdom 
PACK WITH 2 IBM FLOPPY DISKS best offer 1301 The land of "bought'" and "sold," YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO OR VICINITY
NOTICES 

Call Kathy 3781 
(VERY IMPORTANn AND A AEROT­A world ofrea/-/ile fantasy THIS WEEKEND. WILL SHARE EX­HERMODYNAMICS/PROPULSION PENSES. CALL MATI AT 2937.
For Sale: 2 Colo. tix. Call Tom 1808. Where truths are seldom told. Ate you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Try hard to remember
TEXTBOOK INSIDE. PLEASE CALL HEY, I NEED PENN STATE TIX. 
TOMx1664 PLEASE? I'LL BE YOUR FRIEND. CALL DELICIOUS SANDWICHES
Leade<Ship Training! Challenge! Ad­For Sale: Colorado GA ticket. Best offer. All that glitters is not gold. 
t 
KATHY SMC4344 DELIVERED MO-TH 8pm-11pm FA-SA
venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Call Ted 18n. You can pay !he piper 8pm-1am CALL THE YELLOW SUB­
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in !he Bur you cannot buy his soul. 
NEEDED 2 MIAMI GA'S $$$ call Mary MARINE 272-4453 
ROTC Building. (239-6264) for sale 1978 malibu station wagon needs It's jusr a game.
los!: white NO jacket al Erskin CC Fri nile . 
277-8598 ...............................
body work phone 288 0980. HAVE YOU A NOSE FOR NEWS? 
Has 10 in pocket. Please call Caroline ­-Triumph
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 1822. I need my stuff!!
•l Want.s: I need three (3) GA tickets lo !he If you are interested in being a member of Colorado game. If you are inleresled in THE OBSERVER news slaff attend a 
student car lor ssie $200-50 Dan ]272­
6457 2n-6045 !!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE TYPING SERVICE 
sailing me some lor big bucks, call ROD al meeting this Thursday at 7 p.m. in Room LOST: Friday lunch S. dining hall, blue LL 1625. 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE 2822 
Bean backpack. Inside was AL slats 
books, 2 notebooks, Tl calculator. Call Having car troubles?
Marc Ramirez --Madder Than Mad In '64 
TICKETS 

NEEDED 2 sets of 2 or 4 GA's for MIAMI 
John 3476/144 Morrissey. Call MR. GOODWRENCHIIII TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
game. Very important! Will pay well! Call Dan3438 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674­

Needed: 2 So. Carolina GAs; Malt< x1154 SENIORS9182 FOR DETAILS. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
If you wanllo go to NEW ORLEANS for $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$S$SSSSSSSSSSS MIAMI TIX-Need 3 Miami tix: GA's or stu­the Senior Class Trip, BUT Have NOT
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL 674­

BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 9182 FOR DETAILS. 
FOR RENT 

Desperately need COLORADO TICKET den!-preferably GA's. Call Mike 1644. Paid your Deposit Well, PLEAZ Call Bill 
call JIM 3467 THANKS at 288-4637 if you want my Deposil!! Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? 
NEED 1 COLORADO TICKET NICK­Leade<Ship Training! Challenge! Ad­I NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL BRIAN 36n. 3584 ATIENTION SENIORS I NEED A COLORADO G.A. Call Davaat
SONY'S BEST .TAPE, UCX-S $3.5088 
venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob ..................................................·.............. Available from 9/14 10 9/21 are applica­277·3853.
$30/103681 
NEED 2 G.A. & 3 STUD'S TIX FOR S.C. tions for SENIOR FORMAL COMMIT­TEES. Aplications may be picked up al WANTED. 
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in !he 

ROTC Building. (23&-6264) GAME CALL PAUL 2834 BIG $$$ tor 1 Miami Student or GA. Call HETROSEXUAL HUMAN(s) 
eilher LaFortune or Haggar. They are due SHARE EXPENSES ON LUXURY 2
Rich al3200. TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL ...................... 
Will lrade 2 Penn Slate and 2 Air Force by 2:00 9/21. BDRM APT. CALL I!! 256-6676 (Except GA'S for 2 MIAMI GA'S call Roger at3207 during: Fri. Night, or Sat & Sun. After­
674-9182 FOR DETAILS. I NEED MIAMI TICKETS (GA AND/OR
WANTED 

JUGGLER! noon)
STUDENn. PLEASE CALL 4311 IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR 
JUGGLER! 
NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET. CALL JUGGLER' GET THE SCOOP ON THE NEWS DE­SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming
$44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­FOR SALE: Two tickets 10 the Colorado 
FELICIA AT 284-4146. Bring submissions to 309 O'Shag by Sept PARTMENT. Corne to a meeting this an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­
MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! game-Call Jane al4190. 
CALL 1-312·742-1142, EXT. 7316. ........................................... 21 Thursday at 7 p.m. in Room 118 
ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT 
NEED 3 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKETS Nieuwland Science Hall and find out all
Need 2 Miami GA's $$$Call Mark 277­Anne Rieman in !he ROTC Building. (239­
TO THE COLORADO GAME. FOR why do we kill people who kill people 10 about THE OBSERVER news depart­6264)
LINEA 1 is !he coffee house !hal serves 6464 
!he besl cappuccino this side of !he VISITING ALUMS. CALL OSCAR AT show thai killing people is wrong? ment Anyone interested in becoming a 
............................................................... 
2n-3155 IF YOU HAVE ANY TICKETS member of the news slaff of !he student 
revere!! Need 2 GA's for either Air Force or Soulh
EARN EXTRA INCOME. PICK YOUR 
TO SELL. ARE YOU FUNNY? newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint 
Carolina. Call John al4113.
HOURS, DAYS AND PLACES TO 
The Observer needs you! Mary's is welcome. WORK. EASY PLAN. WRITE JOE-NO, 
································ 

PARENTS DON'T CARE HOW BAD WE The Features Department is looking for
COLORADO GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 
51625 CHESTNUT ROAD, GRANGER, 
ARE. NEED 2 COLORADO TIX. CHRIS humor columlata and cartoonlata. II BONFIRE! BONFIRE! BONFIRE! IN46530.
LOST/FOUND I 1072 ~···NEEo··a· ..c-oLORADCi··ciA·s BADLY you are interested, call Mary Healy al239-BONFIRE! FRIDAY NIGHT AFTER THE 
5303 PEP RALLY CARROLL HALL! need 2 air force G.A.s need 2 air force 
PLEASE HELP, CALL 1709 
NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S!!! Call Mike 2n­
.................................

G.A.s call sieve in 419 Sl. Edward's hall, 
LOST LOST Woman's gold watch-­3918$$ Need four PENN STATE tickets. BONFIRE! Danca to tha mualc of THE Timex. Please if you find it or have found it 2742 MUCHO $$$:STEVE 3059 Please call Mary &11333. LAWll After !he Pep Rally Friday nigh! AT call Kim al4114. Have:2 COLORADO GAs. Will trade lor 1 CARROLL HALL 
NEED ONE SOUTH CAROLINA GA: 
NEED..XTRA..$$..CALL..THE. YELLOW ......... ...... ................................... 
Colorado slud. tic and Cash. Call Jell at Is anybody going to Texas for mid­
NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'S AS SOONSUB 272-4453 
LOST: ONE WHITE DRESSER WITH 5 1049 semester break? I need a ride CALL SAM ANYONE WHO FEELS WILD AND DRAWERS. LAST SEEN BEHIND FAR­4665 CRAZY AND WANTS TO EXPERIENCE AS POSSIBLE CALL KATHY AT 2956 
...............................
Desperately need ride to Columbus, OH
LEY AFTER CAVANAUGH/FARLEY Help!! My folks never saw Notre Dame. ...... ......... THE FEELING OF HANG-GLIDING HALL STORAGE. WHO TOOK IT? but now Noire Dame is coming to my par­HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND CALL JOE AT 1450 
TWO COLORADO STUD TIX FOR SALE 9/21 around 12:30 I have lobe horne lo -call232-4525 or 283-2no.
crown this year·s homecoming queenl Call3474, THANKS! Marie! 
PLEASE RETURN. CALL CATHY 2662. ents. Bul !hey don't have tickets to !he TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT 
Missouri game. That's where you come AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! 
I NEED ONE SOUTH CAROLINA GA. 
LOST: NECKLACE THIN GOLD CHAIN ........................... ·····················-~-in. Sell me your pair of Missouri tickets. I HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND RIVERBOAT CROOZEI 
CALL ME AT 1457. 
WITH DIAMOND PENDANT, IN WO­Need ride desperately lo don't have alot bul, whatever I have will be TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT Frtdlly, Sapt. 21, 6:30to 11:00 PM BLOOMINGTON,
MEN'S LOCKER ROOM AT ROCK. IF yours, if you sell me your Missouri tix. AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE $6.00 per person. Umited of tickets! 
Will give two Colorado GA tickets in ex­I.U.
YOU PICKED IT UP PLEASE CALL CALL BARB AT 264-4418. Thanks. Advanced ticket sales in LaFortune: 
change for two Air Force tickets. Calr3359 Friday Sept 21 will share $$$$ Call ED
MELONNI AT 2731 OR BRING IT BY 407 Hat and Tla Pmy Wed and Thurs during lunch and dinner. BADIN. HELP MElt Frldlly Night Fri during lunch . 
1160. 
............................ 

I need 3 GA's and 2 student tix for the Amartcan Legion Poat 303 Bus service from the main circle. 
Need One Penn Stale Student Ticket. 
Would whoever has my Russian reX1book ColorRo game and I need !hem now! My Be there. SENIOR RIVERBOAT CRUISE-DON'T
Call Cheryl x4392 (SMC) 
and Byrns and Slone EconornicsleX1book parents are flying out lorthe game and will HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND MISS IT! eilher pullhem back on the Soulh Dining disown me if I don't get !hem. Help out a TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT
I NEED A TICKET FOR COLORADO
FOR SALE

Hall bookshelves or call Mike al2492? good cause and call Joe at 3296. AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE
BAD! Help? Call1346 HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND HELP! My old Irish uncle from Philly is
Losr.G'O.:.tr-'oO::a::eEAo.NeCi<i:Ace 

TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT dying.His last wish is lo see a NO toolball IF FOUNGI PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 284-For ..ta: Gimme gimme gimme gimme some AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE game. Will buy 2 lix-any game.3738­5062 eatery green velvet chair, $50.00 
Colorado tix. I don'! care how many, jus! Steph
• PERSONALS
Cal1239-5930 or 291-9644 gimme gimme gimme. Gimme gimme O.C. STUDENTSIII Pick up your copy LOST: KEYS, Coal of Arms key ring; gimme some Colorado tix. Gimme 'em of tha OC nawalattar today In Dearly Beloved we are gathered together Room 259; Malt< x1154 now. Gimme. Call !he Alien at 2539. LaFortune. lo discuss !his thing called JEAN AKC Cockar Spaniel puppies 
································································ 

I'LL DIE 4 YOU To whomever accidentally took a white 9 weeks old. Red female, black & tan I NEED 2 GA TIX TO COLORADO, I'LLDIE4 YOU OHMYI and thai is a mighty long time. Go crazy! 
·························································· SAELENS B-DAY. She's 6570 days old CAN HELP ME, CALL277-1306. ad Thank you St Jude .... Me 
N.D. cheerleading uniform from !he Badin male. Good tempermenl. MIAMI, AIR FORCE, AND SO. I'LL DIE 4 YOU II'S thai guy. Love,M&M 
laundry Monday monling. I desperately Call 239-5930 or 291-9644 CAROLINA, PLUS 7 USC TIX. IF YOU WOULD YOU DIE FOR ME? LARRY BURKE need itt call 2467. 
L_-_ . 
--~-...
~ 

The Observer Thursday, September 20. 1984 -page 11 
Minnesota loses third straight while San Diego nears title 
A."-.•ioclated Press Cox, 9·10, struck out two and The victory cut San Diego's magic walked one in pitching his first com­number for winning the National MINNEAPOIJS Pinch-hitter plete game ofthe season. Loser Steve League West to two. Any combina· 
Baseball Standings 
Stevt· Christmas hit his first major­Rogers, 6-1 5, gave up six hits in tion of two San Diego victories and 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE
league home run, a three-run blast seven innings. two Houston losses will give the 
Eaat Eut 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. OB Chicago 90 61 .596 ' Detroit 98 54 .645 
that broke a seventh-inning tie, and Padres their first title. 
gave tht· Chicago White Sox a 7-3 Andy Hawkins, 8-9, worked the
Yankees 6, Orioles 5 
NewYorl< e3 70 .542 e Toronto 64 68 .553 14 
victory over Minnesota la~t night, 1Oth inning for the victory. 
Philadelphia e1 72 .529 10 New York .e2 69 .543 15.5 
St. Louis 79 72 .523 11 Baltimore eo 70 .s:J3 17 NEW YORK · Don Mattingly
the Twins' third straight loss. 
Montreal 74 76 .493 15.5 Boaton eo 71 .530 17.5 
Floyd Bannister, 13-10, allowed 
Pittsburgh 67 e5 .441 23.5 Cleveland 69 e4 .451 29.5
drove in three runs with three hits Tigers 4, Brewers 2 
w..t Milwaukee ll2 e9 .411 35.5
five hits in seven innings before 
San Diego e5 66 .563 w...
and rookie Mike Pagliarulo blasted ayielding to Ron Reed. Mike Smith· 
Houston 76 76 .500 9.5 Kansas City 7e 73 .517
two-run homer ao; the New York DETROIT · The Detroit Tigers, 
Attanta 75 77 .493 10.5 C&hlomia 76 74 .507 1.5
son, I'5· I3, was the loser as the Yankees downed Baltimore 6·5 last playing a predominately reserve 
Los Angeles 74 7e .4e7 11.5 Minnesota 76 75 .503 2
Twins fell to third place, two games 
Cincinnati. 64 88 .421 21.5 Oakland 71 82 .464 8
night, completing a three-game lineup the night after clinching the 
San Francisco 62 e9 .411 23 Chicago 70 81 .464 e
behind Kano;as City in the American sweep ofthe Orioles. American League East title, got an 
Seattle 69 64 .451 10

League West. The Royals lost 4-3 to 
TexBB 65 86 .430 13

joe Cowley, 9·1, allowed four RBI-triple from rookie Scott Earl in asecond-place California in 11 in­
nins on six hits in 6 2-3 innings for three-run second inning to defeat 
Y•tlltdlly'a Ra.ulte

nings last night. 
Y•terdlly'a Ra.ulla Oakland e. Texas 7 Pittsburgh I I, Chicago 6 Detroit4. Milwaukee 2 
his eighth straight victory. Dave Rig­the Milwaukee Brewers 4-2 last 
hetti pitched the final 2 l-3 innings' night. 
Philadelphia 13, New York 5 Boston 10, Toronto4 
Cincinnati 4. Attanta 2 New York 6. Baltimore 5 St. Louis I . Montreal 0 Chicago 7. Minnesota 3 
Angels 4, Royals 3 for his 27th save. Mike Boddicker, jack Morris, 18-11, the first offour 
who saw a six-game winning streak Detroit pitchers, allowed nine hits in 
Los Angeles 3. Houston I California 4, Kansas City 3, 11 inningsend, dropped to 18· II. six innings for the victory. Willie 
San Diego5. Sen Franclsco4, 10 innings Seanle 4. Cleveland 3
ANAHEIM, Calif. · Bobby Grieb's Mattingly, who got three hits in Herhandez worked the final inning
had-hop single with one out in the four at-qats, raised his batting for his 31st save of the season. · The A's had tied the game in the tom of the third when Gary Mat· II th inning drove in pinch-runner bottom of the eighth when Henke thews hit his 13th homer and Keithaverage to .346, one percentage The Brewers took a 1-0 lead in theRick Burleson and gave the Califor­surrendered a two-out, two-run Moreland followed with a solo shot.
point behind teammate Dave Win­first on Roy Howell's fourth homenia Angels a 4-3 victory over the single to Carney Lansford. Pittsburgh took the lead again infield in the race for the American run, which landed in the secondKansao; City Royals last night. 
the fourth, when Jim MorrisonLeague batting title. Winfield was deck in right.
'Jbe defeat cut the Royals' Ameri­
Pirates 11, Cubs 6 doubled and scored on Doug
rested and did not play last night. Tom Candiotti, 2-2, the first ofcan League West Division lead to Frobel's single.
All of Baltimore's runs were three Milwaukee pitchers, gave upone-and-one-half-game over Califor­Marvell Wynne opened the top ofscored on home runs. Mike Young nine hits and four runs in 3 1·3 in­CHICAGO· Tony Pena hit a grandnia, which Is one-half game ahead of the fifth with a triple and scored onand jim Dwyer hit solo shots in the nings and was the loser. slam homer to highlight Pittsburgh'sMinnesota. 
Lee Lacy's single, making the score
fourth and fifth Innings, AI Bumbry six-run sixth inning and johnny RayDoug DeCinces led off the 11th 5·3. but the Cubs wok a 6-'5 lead 
with a single off joe Beckwith, 8·4, delivered a two-run homer in the A ~ 8, Rangers 7 knocked in the winning run for the with three runs in the bottom of the
seventh that chased Cowley and second day in a row as the last-placeand Burleson, running for DeCinces, frame.
Kick Dempsey led off the ninth with OAKLAND, Calif. · Garry Han· Pirates routed the Chicago Cubs 11­took second on Brian Downing's Frobel started the Pirates' bighis I 1th of the season. cock's two-out, bases-loaded single 6 yesterday.
sacrifice. Reggie jackson wa'> lnten· sixth with a walk, and scored on
off Texas reliever Tom Henke It was the National League East­
tlonally walked before Grieb hit a Wynne's two-out triple. After Lacy
capped a ninth-inning rally that gave leading Cubs' third loss in a row and
bouncer that hopped over third 
Padres 5, Giants 4 walked, Ray doubled to right,
the Oakiand A's an 8·7 victory over second straight to Pittsburgh. The
baseman Greg Pryor's head ao; he scoring Wynne. Thompson was in·
the Rangers yesterday. Cubs' magic number, however, was
was about to field it. 
tentionally walked, loading theSAN DIEGO · Catcher Bob Brenly Dave Kingman singled leading off reduced to three last night with NewDon Aao;e, 4-1, held the Royals hit· bases, then Pena ripped his granddropped a throw from second the ninth and pinch-runner Steve York's 13·5 loss to Philadelphia.
less for the final two innings to pick slam.
baseman Manny Trillo with the Kiefer stole second. Henke, l-1, Chicago leads the division by eightup the victory. 
ba~es loaded, allowing Eddie Miller struck out Dwayne Murphy and games. Larry McWilliams, 11·10, 
Phi/lies 13, Mets 5

to score the winning from third bao;e Mickey Tettleton, but also walked pitched five innings for the victory, in the bottom of the lOth inning as Bruce Bochte and Mike Davis to load giving up six runs, while Jimmy PHILADELPHIA Light-hitting
Cardinals 1, Expos 0 
the San Diego Padres defeated the the ba~es. Hancock then lined a I· I Winn pitched the last four innings, Steve Jeltz belted a ba'>es-loaded San Francisco Giants S-4 last night. 
pitch to left to drive in Kiefer and allowing two hits. Tim Stoddard, I 0-triple to cap a five-run first inning as 
ST. I.OlllS · Right-hander Danny Scott Garrelts, I·3, the fifth Giants make a winner of Steve McCatty, 8· 6, gave up four runs in I I·3 innings 
the Philadelphia Phillies bla~ted Cox fired a three-hitter for his first pitcher, walked the bases loaded 14. ofrelief to take the loss. 
New York Mets 13·5 last night.

major-league shutout and Ozzle with one out. Garry Templeton then The A's trailed 7·2 when Dwayne The Pirates scored a run in the New York's loss lowered the 
Smith tripled and scored on Terry grounded to Trillo, who fired the Murphy hit his 31st homer with one first off Chicago starter Rick magic number of the National Pendleton's sacrifice fly in the sixth ball high to the plate. Brenly ap­
out in the sixth and Mike Davis Sutcliffe. jason Thompson added a League East-leading Chicago Cubs to Inning, giving the St. Louis'Cardinals peared to make the tag, but Miller 
added a two-out single in the sixth, two-run double in the third to make three. Chicago lost to Pittsburgh II· a 1·0 victory last night over the knocked the ball out ofhis glove for and joe Morgan drove in another it 3-0. 
Montreal Expos. an error. 

9:00-10:30 September 20 LaFORTUNE BALLROOM 
$1°0 Admission 
BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

···············································: 
American League RBI lead when he ) . 
to miss. ~ drove in his !18th run of the season• • 00000000000000000000000000000000( with a ninth-inning single. 
Voter RegistrationIVAN LINES.. I 
Drive 
(non-partisan) 
•
• • Date: Wed. Sept. 19th
•
• • Thurs. Sept. 20th
: Now leaves hourly from the Main Circle : 
• at • Time: 11:30-1:30 : 5:00 p.m. Fridays : : and : Where: North and South Dining Halls 
: 4:00p.m. on Saturdays : : making stops around University Park l\iall, : : Town & Country Mall : ; and now an additional stop at ; 
Sponsored by: Notr~ Dame's Student 
6 yesterday. 

run with a seventh-inninggrounder. The Cubs tied the game 3·3 in bot-Steve Carlton, 13·7, allowed eight hits in eight innings to get the vic­tory. He struck out eight to raise his career strikeout total to 3,872, one behind·all-time leader Nolan Ryan of
EASY RIDER 
Houston. The.Phillies combined 15 hits, in·
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE 
eluding a team-record-tying four

EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
triples, along with eight walks, five stolen bases and five New York er· rors to rout the Mets. 
jeff Stone went 4-for-5 to key the
United Limo 
~ 
offense against five Mets pitchers. Stone is 21-for-41 against New York this season. Ron Darling suffered his eighth loss in 20 decisions. 
~HUifl 
.rff!!:uwnllllll 

10844 McKinley Hwy. Osceola .,, ~,~ .IIIII.IIIJIWIII 
RedSox 10, Blue Jays 4 

674-6993 II I' ~f~.~ • ,,,,H n"""' 
TORONTO · Dwight Evans drove

255-3068 1 · e \•, 1111111111111111 I 
or call your Travel AQenl 111111111 IWIIIIIIIIIIillllult I ~ ~~llllllllltlllllr.l in six runs with two homers and Mike Easler added a two-run shot to power the Boston Red Sox to a 10-4 
OC~.OC.OCK)OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQc. 
victory over the Tor6nto Blue Jays last night. 
In the three-game series, in which the Bluejays surpassed the 2 million mark in home attendance for the first time in their eight-year history, Evans slugged four homers and drove in l 0 run'>. 
Boston left-bander Bruce Hurst, 12·10, earned his first road victory since beating California onJuly 21. 
Evans belted his second three-run homer of the night and Easler added his two-run shot to highlight a six· run outburst in the fifth that pushed Boston's lead to 9·1. Tony Armas drove in the other run in the inning with a triple that chased starter jim Clancy, 12·15. 
Clancy had retired the first seven batters he had faced until Marty Bar· rett stroked a ground-rule double to 
Government Lobby Commission ~ right. One out later, Wade Boggs
; North Village Mall & Forum Theatres ; 
walked and Evans followed with his 
•Register to vote for Nov. 6, 1984: this is 30th homer of the season.
: so~ ROUND TRIP : 
Boston's Jim Rice took over the

one election students cannot afford 
_________________________________.. 
-~­

The Observer Thursday, September 20. 1984-page 12 

Walter Payton is a major reason for the and the Seattle Seahawks. Payton trails Harris by Chicago Bears' 3-0 start this season. This Sunday, 34 yards as both backs close in on jim Brown's Payton will attempt to move into secondplace on league record of 12,312 career rushing yards. See the all-time rushing list as hefaces Franco Harris story below. 
Payton to face Harris on Sunday 
CHICAGO -Walter Payton began this season, his lOth in the National Football League, hoping to catch Franco Harris as the No.2 career rus­her. On Sunday, he figures to catch Harris ar::-..1 become the top con­tender for eclipsing Jim Brown's all­tim~ record. 
·'You> don't set your sights for goals that can be accomplished," Payton said yesterday. "You set your sights for goals beyond your reach, and that way you accomplish more than you would have thought." 
Brown, who retired at age 29, set the NFL standard of 12,312. career rushing yards in jyst nine seasons with the Cleveland Browns. Payton, 30, entered the season trailing that mark by 687 yards and Harris, 34, a 12-year veteran, by only 325. ·. 
But Harris' contract squabbles with the Pittsburgh Steelers diffused what should have,been a season­long drama and changed it, instead, into a lopsided confrontation. 
***************** 
it it  MJAMI JEWBRY  -tc -tc  
~  1906Miami St.  ~  
!  TOPPRICE  ~  
:  RINGS*DIAMONDS  !  
it  GOLD*SILVER  it  
itit!  WATCHES Buy ­Sell ­Exchange  it-tc ~  
it  OPENMONDAY-SATURDAY9-6  it  
~  289-6440  :  

***************** 
Harris held out for more money while missing all of training camp, subsequently lost his job in Pit­tsburgh, and ended up in Seattle. Playing sparingly for a passing team while getting his legs back, Harris has managed just 59 yards in two games in a Seahawk uniform. 
"When I said I wanted to catch Franco this season it was a motiva­tional tactic more than anything else. I had just gone through surgery on both knees and while I worked, I used thin for my training and to keep my mind real strong," said Payton. "It worked." 
Payton has churned out 350 yards on the ground in three starts and has caught 11 passes for 54 more yards. He already has taken Brown's top spot in the all-time combined yardage category with 15,656. 
When the Bears visit Seattle on Sunday, Payton will face Harris for just the third time, this time just 34 yards behind the man he chased in his mind's eye all during the off­season. 
All the attention resulting from his success is proving a bit much -even for the always sought-after Payton. His disposition earned him the nickname "Sweetness," but his pur­suit ofthe records, coupled with the Bears' 3-0 start -their best in years ­has the media nipping at his heels. 
"When I'm here (at ttaining camp), I'm secluded from most of the hype. And ifI can make it to my car before the reporters get to me, I get home and don't come out," he said.

Belles 
continuedfrom page 16 

tonight. I was also pleased with Caroline Zern's play." 
In the Belles' home opener on Tuesday, they clearly outclassed Goshen, winr.ing by an 8-1 margin. Laverie led a sweep of singles com­petition, winning 6-1, 6-4 over Sally Hunsberger at the number-one slot while Hall rolled over Susan Yoder .6-0, 6-2 at the number two position, 
At number-three singles Craig toppled Bonnie Raber 6-0, 6-1, and McDevitt continued the streak with a 6-3, 6-2 beating of )en Friesen in their number-four singles contest. Kaegi worked for a 6-4, 6-4 victory over Ann Conrad at number-five singles, and sophomore Kim Drahota completed the sweep with a comeback 2-6, 6-2, 6-4 win over Brenda Stoltzfus. 
Craig and fellow freshman Megan Heller defeated Raber and Conrad by a 6-2, 6-1 score in their' number­two doubles match while Kaegi and McDevitt topped Friesen and Stoltzfus in number-three doubles 6­3, 6-1. Goshen's Hunsberger and Yoder denied a Saint Mary's shutout as they managed a 6-4, 2-6, 7-5 tie­breaker win over Zern and Yung. 
Playing without their seniors this past weekend, the Belles opened their season with a strong 7-2 vic­tory over Anderson College before dropping a decision by the same score to Butler's Bulldogs in In­dianapolis. 
Playing number-one singles, Hall began her season with two wins, topping Sue Sansone of Anderson and Staci Helwig ofButler by 6-2,6-0 and 6-4, 6-3 scores respectively. Zern was not as fortunate in her number-two spot and lost two tough matches to Anderson's Carole Hull, 6-4, 6-2, and Butler's Nancy Barter, 6-3,6-4. 
While playing in the number­three slot Craig emerged from her first varsity weekend with a 1-1 slate as she defeated Anderson's Chris Cowan 6-2, 6-1 only to lose to Elana Engleman of Butler 6-3, 6-3. At number-four singles, Kaegi also earned an even slate as she beat Renate Schmalz of Anderson 6-4, 6­2, before letting one slip away at the hands ofButler's jenny Tyson 6-4, 2­6,6-3. 
McDevitt also split for the weekend at her number-five postion by first bettering Anderson's Judy Newton~ 6-2, 6-1, before dropping a close match to Kim Smith of Butler, 7-5, 6-4. Drahota and Heller shared the sixth position during the weekend with both bringing hvf'le wins. Drahota toppled Christa.Howe of Anderson, 7-5, 6-2 while Heller fought for a 2-6,6-3, 7-5 victory over Butler's Jamie Stiver. 
In doubles competition against Anderson the number-two team comprised of Zern and Heller and the number-three team of Kaegi and McDevitt both proved superior to their opponents with 6-1, 7-5 and 6-' 3, 6-0 wins over Cowan and Schmalz and Newton and Howe respectively. Saint Mary's number-one team of Hall and Craig dropped their match to partners Sansone and Hull 6-3, 7­5. 
Against Butler the Belles w~re unable to pull out a doubles win al­though the number-two team of Kaegi and McDevitt took their oppo­nents, Barter and Tyson, to a 4-6, 6-2, 6-3 match. Hall and Zern came up with too little too late in their 6-3, 7-6 loss to Helwig and Engleman at number-one doubles while Heller and Craig dropped their number­three doubles match to Smith and Rene Robinson 6-2,6-4. 
Next in line for the Belies is Val­paraiso on Wednesday, and more importantly Is their "first real test," the Saint Mary's College Invitational on September 29 and 30. 
SObering

Advice _.··~ ca_nsa~e
.. 

alife  ,.  ·..  
...:::1 .  .  
-~- 

BAKER's BIKE SHOP Inc. 


SCHWINN Bicycles 
Parts, Accessories, 
and Service for all Makes 
277·8866 
NOTE: Bicycle storage available from 11-8-04 to 4-30-85 Call for details 
In Roseland one half mile north of campus on U.S. 31 Closed Sunday and Monday 
~*******************************~ 
~  ~  
~  SENIORS  ~  
~  DON'T MISS  ~  
~  TIPS ON WRITING  ~  
~  AN EFFECTIVE  ~  
~  LAW SCHOOL  ~  
~  PERSONALSTATEMENT  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  TWODAYWORKSHOPBY  ~  
~  PROFESSOR THOMAS MARULLO  ~  
~ ~  Thursday, September 20  ~ iC  
~  7 p.m. Library Auditorium  ~  
~  SPONSORED BY  ~  
:  THE ND PRE LAW SOCIETY  ~  

~-********************************}~... 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOORTO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 " month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join their company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay duringyourjunior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
Ifyou are a junior or senior majoring. in math, engineering or physical science, find out more today. And le1yourcareer pay off while still in college. For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: CALL TOLL FREE 1 • 800 -382 -9782 Navy Reprl!sentative will be on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement O<•ice 


----~-----~ -~ ~~­
The Observer 
Tigers must stay sharp after winning division 
Associated Press start and never allowing anyone .closer than three-and-a-half games 
DETROIT -Reality set in quickly after that. for the Detroit Tigers after they In the AL west -also known as the clinched the American League East AL worst and the Mild, Mild West-a title. fierq: three-team battle has been 
lbe Tigers clubhouse was joyous raging for weeks. Tuesday night immediately after Couldn't the fact that the Tigers relief ace Willie Hernandez had clinched their division so early give blown a third strike past Milwaukee their AL west opponent a fighting catcher jim Sundberg to preserve a edge in the playoffs? 3-0 victory over the Brewers. · "...It doesn't matter to me what 
Corks were popping and cham­you did in the regular season," An­pagne was flowing in rivers. derson said. "The playoffs and the 
Over in a corner, however, relief World Series are a whole different pitcher Doug Bair -one of the few deal. lbey don't always determine Detroit players with any postseason the best !4'am, either." experience -tried to make some Anderson is qualified to say that, sense of the situation. since his 1970 Reds also were I 02­
"This is the easy part," said Bair, 60 and swept Pittsburgh in the who was with the St. Louis Cardinals playoffs but lost the World Series to in 19HZ when they won the National Baltimore in five games. Lcagut· East and captured the World Now that the title has been Series against Milwaukee. "It's a long clinched, Anderson will rest his haul, but this is the easy part." regulars, a few at a time, for one or 
The point certainly wasn't lost on two days. He has a bench full of Manager Sparky Anderson, either. prospects, called up early this He still has vivid memories of month and eager for playing time. guiding the 1973 Cincinnati Reds to But AI Kaline, the Hall of Fame a 99-6.~ season in the NL west, only outfielder who played on Detroit's to be upset by the New York Mets, 1968 World Series championship three gamt·s to two, in the playoffs. team and on the 1972 AL cast win­
"You've got nowhere to go if you ncr, cautioned the players against lose three (in the playoffs), so you're letting down. going to shoot everything you've "Don't rdax and don't take too got," Anderson had said before the many ganu~s off between now and division crown was officially settled. the playoffs," advised Kaline, who 
lht·rc is the addt·d factor that the now is a Tiger broadcaster. "You Tigers ran away from the rest of the must stay sharp and you can only do AI. t•ast, jumping off to a record 35-5 that by playing." 
Zoeller forced to withdraw 
Atlsodared Press prizes and ll16l,OOO to the winner, began a five-day, 90-hole run yester­
LAS VEGAS, Nev. · U.S. Open day morning. titleholder Fuzzy Zoeller, suffering Zoeller, his body twisted and con­from severe back spasms, was forced torted by the spasms, underwent to withdraw from the field yesterday medical treatment Tuesday. bdorc beginning ddense of his title He was hospitalized for six days in in the Panasonic Las Vegas lnvita· Birmingham, Ala., in August, with se­tiona I Golf Tournament. vere hack problems that forced him 
to pull out of the PGA National "Inc rkhcst t·vent on the PGA Championship and the World Series tour. offt·ring $1, Ill,500 in total ofGolf. 
t t COUNSELINE t t 
f All you do is dial 239-7793 and ask for the 
t 
name or number of the tape yau wish to hear. 
t
f Below is the list of tapes offered. COUNSELINE t is a confidential telephone service that offers t t professionally taped materials covering a variety tf of student concerns. 
t 
t NEW HOURS: 4-12 p.m. MON-FRI t t t 
Counaeltne Tapes
t t
Title 
Frlendehlp Building

t t 
Typea of Intim&cy 4 Physical Intimacy 

b Exprusins Nee:ative Thoushts and Feelings 7 Oealins with Constructive Criticism 8 Dealing with Ane:er ­
t t 
t t
9 Understanding Jealousy and How to Deal With It 10 How to Say "No" 16 8ecomin& Open to Others
t t 
18 Datins Skills 20 Female Homosuuality 21 Male Homosexual!ty

t t 
30 Anxiety and Possible Ways to Cop~:t With It 32 llow to Doal with l.onel ineas 
)) llow to llandh Fears 34 Increaaing Sel f-Awareneaa 3S Building Self-Eateem and ConfidencP 
t t 
t t
37 Relaxation Exerch&s 38 Coping with Strua 39 f'emale Sex Role--Changes and Str~ssea 
t 
40 Hale Sex Rob--Changes and StressE>a 44 Learning to Accept Youraeli 61 What ,.is Thenpy and now to Use lt 
t 
70 Infatuation or LovP.7 83 llow to Cope with a Broken Rehtion11hip 
t
84 Death and Dying 8~ Underatartdinp; Grtof 90 IIP.lpin~ a Friond 

t 
lbO f:arly Stp,na of an alcohol Problt"m 161 Rrsponaible Decisions about IJrinking 40! Se 1 f Aaaerti veness 
t 
411 Exnmplea ot Contract BuUdinR 4ll What i.a Deprea.don 4ll llow to Ur.a 1 with Depraaa ion 
t 
ltJJ Onprauion as a Lihstyle 47R UPcoming lndflpendtmr from Parents lt79 (J(>ftlins with Alcoholic Pannts 
t 
Suicidal Crisis 492 Rocogn"lzirll~ Suicidal PotPnt inls in Other~:~ '•93 llrlpinp; SomPOOP in n Suicidal Crisis 
'•'H t 
t 
COUNSELINE is a completely anonymous t "service offered by the counseling and psychol­
t 
ogical services center, University of Notre Dame. 
t
For further information or assistance, call 
t
239-7336 
Thursday, September 20. 1984 -page 13 

/ 

Detroit Tigers' Lou Whitaker takes a pat on the Tigers began tut1ing upfor theplayoffs by defeat­back from teammate Alan Trammel after be ing Milwaukee last night, 4-2. See related stories homered in Monday night's Detroit victory•. The on thispage and Otl page 11. 
led the comeback with excellent eran and co-captain Ann Boutton, serving, and senior co-captain Molly who is sidelined with a knee injury,
SMC 

Baker contributed solid defense may not return to her position as continued from page /6 along with some key passes and hits. middle-blocker for another week or 
Assistant Athletic Director Tim two. Mary Reidy, Beth Wozniak and 3, 17-15, 15-4, in their home opener. Dillon noticed something different Moira Cronan are also nursing injur­In the first game, Saint Mary's easily about this team. He said that unlike ies. disposed of the Pilots. Freshman set­Saint Mary's teams of the past that The Belles next home match is ter Anne Williard and sophomore when losing, prepared themselves slated for lbursday, September 27, hitter Patty Williams turned in ex­for defeat, the 1984 team kept push­against Purdue-Calumet, who cellent performances. ing, and as a result, pulled out the defeated Saint Mary's in a 
The second game of the match victory. heartbreaking five-game match last 
proved to be very exciting for the The third game wa'i almost anti­season. large, enthusiastic crowd that cli!flaCtic as the Belles posted an­Goralski predicted success for turned out at the Angela Athletic other victory to even up their season this team early in the season, and Facility. Finding themselves on the record at 3· 3. Goralski was plea'ied they certainly are making his predic­losing end of 5-l, 7-2, and 14-9 with the win, citing Williams and tion come true, with some high­scores during the game, the Belles freshman Mary Carole Feldman for quality play. With a continued never lost their composure and held their fine play. display ofdrive and enthusiasm, the off three Bethel game points before Although it is a young season, in­Belles will be certain to give Purdue winning, 17-15. Freshman Kara juries have already kept several a tough fight a~ they attempt to even Tekulve and sophomore Ann Brown players out of action. Four-year vet· the score. 
Not Parkinson's disease 
Ali's condition said to be under control 
Associated Press "He's not in any danger. It's not a five days of tests at the hospital this fatal disease," said Ecker, medical month before leaving Sept I I for a 
NEW YORK · Former world director ofA1i's boxing management trip to Europe. He retu'rncd Tuesday heavyweight boxing champion company. "You don't die from what for more tests and treatment. Muhammad Ali was given test he ha'i and I feel very optimistic that Because his "condition apparently medications yesterday by doctors what he ha~ can be controlled by was not worsening and he lacked who said he was suffering from medication." classic symptoms, doctors ruled out "Parkinsonism," or minor symptoms Ecker, a diagnostic radiologist both Parkinson's disease and "the of Parkinson's disease. who was consulting on Ali's ca'ie, punch-drunk syndrome," caused by 
Ali, 42, apparently did not have said doctors at Columbia­repeated blows to the head, Ecker Parkinson's disease, a degenerative Presbyterian Medical Center were said. brain disease, "per se," and experts testing drugs on Ali "to see if it helps Ali is the only fighter to have won believed his condition could be con­him and how much it helps him." the heavyweight boxing champion­trolled by medicine, one of his doc­Ali, complaining of slowed mo­ship three times, in a ll-year career tors, Martin Ecker, said. tion and slurred speech, underwent from 1960 to his retirement in 1981. 
His title was stripped away in 1967 when he refused to be drafted into the Army; he won it back from George Foreman and later lost and won it against Leon Spinks. 
Ali's speech has been slurred, at times unintelligible, for about two years. ''I'm in good shape," he told fans at Kennedy International Air­port on Tuesday night. "I'm a little

·"g'Qoweng fpn aQQ occagiottg ~ ~ 
tired, but I'm in good shape." An Interviewer in Germany

Come in and Browse 
quoted Ali as saying, "I always fed tired but don't fed pain at alL ... I

327 Lincolnway 232--3354' 
don't know exactly what it Is." 



The Observer 
Driano 

continuedfrom page 16 
must be able to play offense to a cer­tain extent. 
"Soccer's no longer a game of backs, midfielders and forwards," he says. "You have to be the total soc­cer player. You can't just be a wingback or sweeper; you have to possess the offensive skills so that you can go in the last third of the field and put the ball in the net." 
Fullbacks with good offensive skills are particularly valuable on a team coached by Grace, who believes that all 11 players must ap­ply themselves to defense when the opposition has the ball and to of­fense when the Irish gain possession. 
"It's a bit ofa'change from the phi­losophy that (former Irish coach) Rich Hunter held," Driano explains. "It's a different style of play with Coach Grace. I think it lends itself to more creativity by allowing us to go into the offensive third ofthe field. I enjoy going up on the attack. 
"Once I start the attack with a wall 
pass, I like to finish. I like to keep 
going up the field instead of Jetting 
somebody else take over. It's just 
something you want to see the com­
pletion of. 

"But I'm not the best on offense," 
Driano admits. 

Whatever his talents as an individ­ual player may be, however, Driano remains, first and foremost, a team player. Everything that he does, he does for what he hopes will be the good of the team. 
"I would like the team to play well," he says, "and I try to do every­thing in my power to keep the team as a cohesive unit. A team that is fairly close is going to play a Jot bet­ter. 
"If I can get the best of each player, get them up for these games, keep the intensity up during practice, eventually the wins will come. 
"I want to coax the best ·out of everybody," · Driano continues, "because the potential is there. We have very good players, some of the best-skilled players Notre Dame has ever had, and all it takes is confi­dence that we can do it and a lot of commitment." 
This weekend, the Irish will be playing two games, including a match at top-ranked Indiana on Sun­day, which may be Notre Dame's toughest game of the season. 
"We're usually pretty good about getting up for the big games," Driano says confidently. "It's a matter ofatti· tude." 
The Irish can be certain of one thing: Dom Driano will do whatever it takes this week and all season to give the team the right attitude. 
IMPORTED LEATHERS CERAMICS 

Linea-l. 
Gifts & Coffee Shop 
1631 E. Edison Rd. (Near Univ. ND) 
(219) 277-4983 

Serving: Espresso -Cappuccino -Pastries -Sandwiches 

FIND OUT ABOUT: The Snite Museum Chagall T -Shirts, and the Most Exciting, Avant-Garde Club on Campus. 
WHEN? s:3o Thurs. Sept. 20 The Snite Courtyard 
Confused? Call 239-5466 
If you've signed up ...you're expected. 
t 
-~------------­
Thursday, September 20. 1984 -page 14 
McCartney breaks down during interview 
Associated Press  "I know what Bill's going  Colorado, 0-2, upsetting Notre  
through," said Faust, "I went  ·  Dame are remote. Injuries in losses  
CHICAGO Colorado's Bill  through a week of what he's going  to Michigan State and Oregon have  
McCartney broke down during a dis­ through. You just don't care about  taken their toll on the Buffaloes.  
cussion with Notre Dame's Gerry  anything else except the kid who is  
Faust about stricken player Ed Rein­ in a coma. Right now Bill couldn't  "We're crippled and 'hurting  
hardt.  care about anything else, let alone  badly," said· McCartney. "Michigan  
McCartney, invited t'o take part in  wins and losses."  State had eight sacks against us and  
Faust's 'weekly telephone interview  Faust added that the youngsth at  Oregon put on tremendrms pres­ 
Tuesday, choked up while discuss­ Moeller recovered and graduated  sure. But neither team is in the same  
·ing Reinhardt, the tight end who had  without suffering any brain damage  ball park with Notre Dame. We are  
a blood clot removed from his brain  and said he hoped the same proved  going into the land ofgiants."  
after collapsing during a 27-20 loss  true for Reinhardt, who remained in  McCartney said he was grateful  
at Oregon last Saturday.  critical condition yesterday.  that Notre Dame went conservative  
"We lost a great player in Ed Rein­ in the fourth quarter last year when  
hardt and it has had a tremendous  "I know the Colorado players will  the Irish whipped Colorado 27-3.  
impact on the team," said  come in and play their hearts out for  "Otherwise, they could have em­ 
McCartney. "It weighs heavily on  their teammate Saturday," said  barrassed us."  
everyone's hear,t."  Faust.  Notre Dame, 1-1, averted disaster  
Faust recalled a similar situation  Notre Dame and Colorado meet  last week with a 24-20 comeback  
when he was coaching at Moeller  Saturday at South Bend.  victory over Michigan State after fal­ 
~igh School in Cincinnati.  Despite the situation, chances of  ling behind 17·3.  


REGULAR POPOV or LIGHT 
'VODKA 
1.75 l. 
SOUTHERN COMFORT 
750 Ml. 

EARLY TIMES 
s 9
HIRAM WALKER'S 
PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS 
750 Ml. 
1.75 
LITER 
OLD 

BUDWEISER 
1/2 BARREL

TAYLOR MILWAUKEE
CALIFORNIA 
KEG

1I 2 BARREL KEG
CELLARS 
1.5 l. 
PAULBACARDI CAROLANS 

RUM MASSON IRISH CREAM 
BRANDY

1.75 l. LIQUEUR 750 Ml. 
750 Ml. 
KEGS 

Budweiser $3199 Old Milwaukee 
lf2 bbl 112 bbl 
Michelob 
Miller Lite 
1!2bbl lf2 bbl 
WE ACCEPT STUDENT CHECKS WITH NOTRE DAME ID 
ISGIUPIID. 2III.IWII 254 DIXIEWAY 10m 1111 UIICOUIWAY EAST MISIIAWW EWAlT IOIEUIII SO. lUI 277-7176 295-6310 272-2522 233-1430 

KING'S CELLAR 
GIN 
OR 
VODKA 
j 1.75 l. 
CANADIAN CLUB 
750 Ml. 
CHRISTIAN BROTHERS 
BRANDY 
750 Ml. 
GALLO OR 
SORIA 
VERMOUTH 
750 Ml. YOUR CHOICE 
CANADIAN MIST 
1.75 l. 
999 
112110.1EIDAYE. IO.IEID 233-WI 


~~~C3L~--------------------------------------·Th--u.rs_d_a_y_,s_e_p.te.m
__b_e_r_2_o_.1_9_8_4___P_a•g•e·l-5 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
ll YOVN6 MAN CAN {J() MAN't N€WJ CIJNfcKfNC£ 7lJ 
I HAV€ CAU€1l THI5 

A SIUY THIN& IN HIS f()(}(..f{JH 

WHAT llfJOVT llNNOVNC£ 1HII1 I WIU 
Ff<llTcKNITY llAY5. I 8WfVf 
1H05f OTHER Wlf(I?E '! N()T RetJNQVIJH MY CKOWN. 
71£ WOf(tfJ WIU fOI?&IVf Mf fO/IR POZEJN ."' 

/

-I 

Tank McNamara Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 
Psycho Chicken Octavio Gary Larson
The Far Side 

,.., 
I 
"Ohl Wall! Walt! My mistake! ... That's him dawn thele!" 





33 Evil 49 Chin. wax 34 Gr. letter 50 Garner .
The Daily Crossword 
43 Sonny's sibling 52 Stopper 45 Before eye or 53 Sheltered corn 54 Crow sounds 
ACROSS 32 lon 59 Lopez theme 7 "But-on 
1 US admiral 33 Uncle Millie song forever" composer 57 Social insect 5 Lures 35 La Douce 60 Ah me! 
48 Liquid measure 58 Born8 Semi-precious10 Puma Is one 36 Paul of old 61 Recipient 
gem
13 Gator kin films 62 Ship's 
14 Grain fungus complement 9 Sen. Thurmond Wednesday's Solution37 Confess
15 Kaplan of TV 63 Soft food 
16 Solemn 38 Faithful: Scot. 64 Between: pref. 10 Nod settler 11 Fundamentals
promise 65 Makes do,
39 Fr. friends 12 Ess follower
barely

17 Henri's love 15 Pompous style 18 Sakebase 40 Sawyer or Rigg 20 A Turner 
19 Western 
41 Kiln mountains 42 Dandy 
22 Extinct bird accessories 24 Postal service
DOWN

21 Friends and 25 Confound
44 Ascot 1 Gael
countrymen 26 Ancient region
45 O·T connectors 2 Dies-connector 46 Harvard to Yale 
3 Reformer 27 Solemn48 Lehr or Costello
23 Grain Lucretia reflection 24 Egyptian god 49 Already ready 4 Ruler of class· 51 Tropical plant
25 Sediment room days 29 Gloomy
55 Alphabet

27 Ms. Farrow 5 Zoo denizen 30 Accumulate 
28 OldWorld enders 6 Ready for 31 Gob ©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/20/8456 Laughing 32 Amo,-... All Rights Reserved
lizards battle 

Campus 
o12-I p.m. -Lecture, "The Church, The Family, and Public Policy," Dr. James Hitchcock, Prof. of History, St. Louis University, Rooin 101 Law School, Sponsored by Thomas J. White Center on 
Law and Government. o3:30p.m.-Seminar, "An Overview ofthe NASA 
Research Program on Aircraft Icing,"Joseph Shaw, 
NASA-Lewis Center, Cleveland, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. o3:30p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs. Wheaton, Courtney Courts, ACC. 
o3:30 · 4:30p.m. -Computer MJ.nJcourse, TSO, Second Session, CCMB, Available to Public at No Charge. 0 3:30-4:30p.m.-ComputerMJ.nJcourse,BASIC, Second Session , Room 104 CCMB, Available to Public at No Charge. o4 p.m. -Seminar, "Ergodic Behavior In Small Molecules," Dr. John Hardwick, Notre Dame, Con· ference Theatre Radiation Laboratory, 
0 5:30p.m.-Meeting, French Club, South Dining Hall, Free. o6 p.m. -Meeting, ND/SMC Young Democrats, Stu· 
dents  for  Mondale/Ferraro,  Lafortune  Little  
Theatre.  
o6-9 p.m. ­ Training Seminar, Cathy Halligan ­ 

National Committee Rep., AIESEC-United States, 
Room 303 Haggar CoUege Center, SMC, Sponsored 
by AIESEC/ND-SMC, Free. 
0 7 & 9:40p.m. -Film, "EI Norte," Engineering Auditorium, S2. o7 p.m. -Film, "The Road to Zanzibar," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 
0 7 p.m.-Workshop, Writing Law School Personal Statements, Professor Thomas Marullo, Notre Dame, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Pre Law Society, Free. 
o7-9 p.m. -Presentation%Reception, For Senior Fin., Mgt., Mkt. and Econ Students and 2nd-year MBA's, Steelcase, Inc., Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 
o7:30p.m. -Organizational Meeting, F.L.O.C., Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by F.L.O.C. 
oS & 10 p.m. -Film, "African Queen," Starring Humphrey Bogart, Knights of Columbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, Sl (members free). 


£)~11®~ WHERE THE FUN 
410 PEOPLE AREI! 
0 
-

§~ 
: THIS WEEKEND : 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
!EXCALIBUR !
$ DOLLAR IMPORTS $ 6 -8 Brats, Burgers, Spuds, Salad DOGS, CHIPS, NACHOS, 'ZAs & 14 oz. Draft $4.00 limited supply 
•• 7, 9:30, 12 Friday & Saturday :
SO COME EARLY!!! 
• ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM $1.50 • 9 -CLOSE BLOWOUT to stampede the Buffalos 
~~ • 

By KELLY PORTOLESE team present, compiled a 2-3 
Sports Writer record. 
The Belles lost to Aurora College, 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team 1 S-8, 15-3, Millikin College, 1 S-8, 
raised its record to 4-3 with a con­1 S-8, and a tough Elmhurst team 
vincing victory over Grace College (current NCAA Division III cham­
last night. The Belles continueo pions), 15-9, 15-5. Wins over North­
their fine play on the road by win­eastern Missouri, 5-15, 15-7, 16-14, 
ning in thr.ee games, 1 S-6, 15-3, 15-and Central State University, 15-12, 
1. 15-9, gave the Belles the confidence 
Displaying their depth by starting they needed to head into the season. a different lineup in all three games, Second-year coach Brian Goralski the Belles were especially dominant felt that the opposing coaches were from the serving line in keeping the impressed with the Belles, and also Grace players off balance for most of noted that the other teams were glad the masch. that they played Saint Mary's this 
The team opened its 1984 cam­early in the season, rather than paign with an impressive round of .having to face them later in the year. • tournament play at Elmhurst Col­On Tuesday night, the Belles lege over the weekend. Up against defeated visiting Bethel College, 15­NCAA Division II and Ill competi­
see BELLES, page 12tion, Saint Mary's, the lone, NAIA 
The Irish running game bas gotten an added and bas lightened tbe load on starter Allen
Field general Driano 
boostfrom tatlback Alonzojefferson. The sopho­Pinkett. Trisb Sullivan proftles jefferson in her more reserve bas been getting a lot ofwork lately, story below. 
directs ND soccer team . Offense has versatility 
By PHIL WOlF go, and they know how to go about 
Assistant Sports Editor playing their positions." 
'AJ' effective backup to Pinkett 
In addition to directing his 
It is about an hour before game teammates, Driano must be able. to By TRISH SULliVAN A gifted athlete with lots of savvy stadium with a young but capable 
time, and the Notre Dame soccer play solid defense himself. Over the Sports Writer and a knack for running with tht' defense. The Buffs shut down Mic-
team huddles quietly in the locker­past two years, the 5-11, 170-pound football, Jefferson gained 40 yards higan State's offense in thfir season 
room in the bowels of Spartan senior has proven himself particu­When Irish enthusiasts think of on 11 carries versus the Spartans. He opener, allowing only one first 
Stadium at Michigan State Univer­larly capable at handling one-on-one Notre Dame's offensive game, most also assists in the kickoff return down in the second half. 
sity. The players are listening in­situations. He says that he feels that minds immediately conjure up vi­duties where he led the '83 Irish "Our offense incorporates both 
tently as Irish head coa.:h Dennis he is in a position to affect the tempo sions of Heisman Trophy candidate squad with 10 for a 17.4-yard the passing and running game. But 
Grace explains the importance of ofthe game, so it is important that he Allen Pinkett. But there is a little average. we have to establish some stability 
the game they are about to play. play good defense. known force brew-ing in the Irish "Alonzo is good enough that there in the running game to key our of­
When Grace finishes his speech, "I guess being the sweeper you backfield and it broke out in last Sat­is no reason he should be sitting on fense," ~::ommentsjefferson. 
he turns the floor over to the team's kind of set a tone on the team," urday's contest against Michigan the bench," claims head coach Jefferson will be a part of the 
captains, and senior tri-captain Driano says. "lfyou go out there and State. The force came in the form ofa Gerry Faust. "This way we can keep stability this season. According to of­
Dominick Driano stands up to face you're really frantic ... , well, then it 5-9, 187-pound package ·named Pinkett fresh, the same way we do at fensive coordinator Ron Hudson, 
his teammates. He is not an eloquent kind ofsets a tone for the game that's Alonzo Jefferson. fullback using both Chris Smith and the sophomore tailback has already 
speaker, but he knows what the frantic. But if you show poise out Jefferson, a sophomore from West Mark Brooks. Allen will be more ef­proven to be a dependable part of 
team needs to hear. there on the field, the players think, Palm Beach, Florida, made the move fective this way, plus he's bound to the Irish backfield. 
Driano tells the Irish that they 'Well, hey', he's got alot ofpoise,' and from wide receiver to tailback late in run a little harder when he is in there "Jefferson would not be in the 
must have confidence in their ability it calms them down so they can play his rookie season. With his impres­knowing AJ (Jefferson) is around." game if he couldn't prove to be as 
and that they must attack the Spar­their own game. I think that's impor­sive showing in spring practice, he Certainly one would think that effective as Allen. We need to main­
tans aggressively right from the start tant." established himself as the top being the backup to an Allen Pinkett tain the intensity at that position. 
of the game. He encourages each of There is more to playing sweeper backup to Pinkett. would cause a player to be a bit of a Plus it helps that they can both rest 
his fellow fullbacks and then than just defending the goal, though. • "I am very happy playing at the defeatest, but Jefferson's attitude is each other. It keeps the backs a lot 
procedes through the entire lineup Driano explains that every player tailback position now,' says Jeffer­far from that. fresher." 
offering a vote of confidence for son. "I played tailback in high school "A lot of teams key on Allen, so 
see DRIANO, page 14
most of the players, singling them so I'm comfortable with it." sometimes it is really hard for him to So on Saturday afternoon, when 
out and telling them to capitalize on get going," explains Jefferson. "I the Buffaloes of Colorado invade 
their individual talents. think I can take some ofthe pressure Irish turf, look for Allen Pinkett and 
When the Irish take the field, they offofAllen. Whatever I have to do to the Notre Dame coaching staff to 
immediately put pressure on the help the team, I'll do." spell relief with number 3 ... Alonzo 
Spartans, and, less than three Colorado enters Notre Dame Jefferson. 
minutes into the game, Notre Dame 
leads, 1-0. 
SMC tennis team earns 
Dom Driano is the sweeper on the Irish soccer team. He is the last line ofdefense in front ofthe goalkeeper, and he is the general who directs the 
second consecutive win 
players on the field. He is the vocal 
By MARK B.JOHNSON avenged the loss in number-two captain on the squad, while forward Saint Mary's Sports Editor doubles as she and Karen Kolesiak Rich Herdegen is the silent leader on 
teamed for a 6-4, 6-3 win over Zern the front line. 
Again proving effective its fusion and senior partner Rene Yung. "Coach Grace said we were 
of talent and grace, Saint Mary's ten­reciprocals of each other (in Tbe 
nis team solidly defeated Saint Raising her record to 3-1, of Observer, September 13)," Driano 
Joseph's College last night, 7-2, to which two wins and the only loss recalls. "I think that's pretty true. earn its second consecutive victory were at the number-three singlesRich is kind ofsilent all the time, and 
in as many nights and up its season position, freshman Susie Craig I guess I'm in the habit of yelling. I survived a first before
record to 3-1. 7-6 set get kind ofboisterous at times." 
"We are coming together really destroying opponent Debbie Freche Driano does much more than well as a team and are looking good 6-0 in the second set of their make a lot ofnoise in the defense. He 
so far," said senior co-captain number-four singles match. 
constantly must be aware of the Debbie Laverie. At number-five singles Yung out­
presence of his opponents and the 
Sophomore Mary Carol Hall lasted Kolesiak 6-4, 6-3 to continue location of the ball. He then must be 
added, "We have really improved a the Belles' sweep, but in the sixth 
able to communicate with his lot over last year and due to our slot Penny Williams ofSaintJoseph's . teammates in front of him to tell 
younger players we are looking for defeated junior Kim Kaegi 6-4,6-2 to 
them where to move on the field. 
even more." earn her team's only point is singles 
"Being the sweeper on a team, 
Leading last night's show in both competition.you kind ofhave to be vocal," Driano 
number-one singles and doubles With victory already in hand after claims. "I mean, r.ou have to tell guys 
play was Laverie who topped Judy singles play, senior Karle Casey to slide left, slide right. (Yelling) 
Stewart 6-3, 6-2 in singles before teamed with freshman Kate kind of goes with the position, I 
teaming with sophomore-sensation McDevitt at number-three doubles suppose." 
Hall to defeat Stewart and teammate to sweeten the margin by betteringAlthough Driano is somewhat re­
Karen Sifferlen 6-3, 6-0 in doubles. Williams and). Malone 6-3,6-3. sponsible for the movement of the 
Hall raised her individual season Commenting on the highlights of fullbacks, he says that he does not 
slate to 4-0 by downing Sifferlen 6-0, the match, third-year coach John need to keep a very close watch on 
6-2 in their number-two singles con­Killeen stated, "I was really pleased their activities on the field. 
frontation. with the number-one doubles team; 
"Most of the players know what Tri-captain Dom Drlano, tbe sweeper for the Notre Dame soccer 
Sophomore Caroline Zern got her they played an outstanding match 
they have to do," he explains. team, provides the Irish with the leadership they will need for 
singles game ba~::k on track with a 6­
"They've been playing for so long games such as this weekend's match at Indiana University. Phil 
4, 6-2 victory over Kathy Biven at see SMC, page 13
that they know where the ball has to Wolfgives a profile ofDrlano in bis story at left. 
number three singles, but Biven 
SMC volleyball downs Grace in roall victory 


1he UbKrvcr/ V1c t.ruarlno 





