Student response -page 7 

VOL XVIII, NO. 130 the independent ~llldent new~papcr ~en ing notrt dame and ~ailll man-~ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1984 


More than 1,500 students protest new alcohol policy 
Compiled by Observer Staff Reporters '~' 
More than 1,')00 studcnls chant­ing "We are 0-C' and "Civc beer a chance" protested the new alcohol policy last night in a spontaneous rally which climaxed with fireworks and horns on the steps ofCorby Hall. 
"This whole alcohol policy is to­tally unrt"asonabk," shouted junior Lou Chiarella to the crowd. "and we can be just as unreasonable as they can. This ain't over until we say it's over." 
Rob Bertino. studt"Ilt body presi­dent, emerged from the crowd, ur­ging the students to join in a rally at noon today on the steps of the Ad­ministration Building. 
"We're going to show the ad­ministration this can be solved constructively. We can do some­thing about it," yelled Bertino. 
He also encouraged the students to attend a rally next Friday on the steps of LaFortunc Student Center. 
"We're going to have Neu•su•eek there; we're going to have Time there: we're going to have ABC, NBC, CBS ...," he said before bt"ing drowned out by the cheers of tht· students. "We're going to show the administration we can be rational, unified, show them how we feel on this entire issue," said Bertino. 
He announced plans to fly Senior 

Huddy Harold H. Augustme from Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.. to spcak at tht· rally ncxt wcck. hut lat<:r hc admittcd, "I havcn't contactcd Harold B. yct. l'vc got his phonc numhcr and I'll call him tomorrow and tell him 1.000 studcnts cxpcct him here on friday." 
The protest began in Zahm IIall at approximately 12:.">0 a.m. It moved to the Tower Quad hcfon: heading west toward Alumni Hall. home of Father William Beauchamp, chair­man of the Committcc on the Rt"sponsible list" of Alcohol. 
The crowd. which had incrcascd to more than HOO, chantnl "Beauchamp. come out and play." Somt" studt"nts st"t off firecrackers and shot bottle rockets at lhc cas! side ofthe hall. Two security officers stood guard at Beauchamp's door. lit" stt"ppcd oul at I a.m.. after lhe crowd had left, but dcdincd to com­mcnt to The Obsen,er. 
Advancing to Corby Hall, studcnts gathcred al thc front steps shouting, "Wc want Tcd!" Otht:Ts bcgan sin­ging "All we are saying is give beer a chance" and "I 00 Bottles of Beer on the Wall." 
I Jnivt"rsity President Fatlll"r Theodore Hesburgh did not appcar. Fatht"r Leonard Banas, Corby IIall su­perior, walked out onto the porch ten minutes later, but did not speak to the crowd. 
Arts and Letters faculty begins move into Decio Hall 
By FRANK LIPO 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The first group of faculty mem­bers from the College of Arts and Letters made the long awaited move into Decio Faculty IIall this Monday. Fifteen to 20 faculty members will he moved per day in a process that will essentially be completed by graduation. 
The $6.2 million facility is the gift of Arthur ). Decio, president of Skyline Corporation and University trustee. Located behind O'Shaughnessy Hall on the Sout­heast Quad, the building consists of three four-story sections, en­compassing 75,000 square feet. It will house the Arts and Letters faculty, which currently occupies offices in the basement of the library. When the library was built in 1963, the basement office space was viewed as temporary. This week marks the beginning of the final phase of the anticipated move. 
Decio Faculty Hall contains three sections North, South and Central. The Central section is the hub of the building, and will contain a lobby on its first floor as well as a faculty lounge, stenography pool, mail room. and computer terminal room on its second floor. 
First floor North will contain a copy ccnler and a computer ter­minal room. Second floor North will houst" the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. The Ist Source Travel office, which is presently in the basement of the library, will also be moved to Decio. The 250 faculty offices will occupy the rest ofthe flours ofthe three sec­tions. 
Roger Skurski, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, described the process of office al­location, saying he asked depart­ment chairmen whether they would prefer their department offices in one block or scattered throughout the building. He also asked if they preferred a particular section or floor. After making a general chart fur office allocation, he left the in­dividual office assignments to the department chairmen. 
The Art, Music and Psychology Departments have their own build­ings and will not be affected by the move. 
The College has distributed thousands of cardboard boxes to faculty members, who will pack their own belongings, after which University Maintenance will transport the boxes and other pos­sessions to Decio Hall. Work is still being done on the building and faculty are being moved as the floors are completed. 
Skurski said, "By the end of the year, the majority ofthe Arts and Let­ters faculty will be moved in, so stu­dents can expect to find their 
see DEClO, page 3 


Alcohol directive released; parts may be negotiable, says Roemer 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
On Monday night, the alcohol policy was released. Yesterday, the Student Affairs office released a directive outlining the specific im­plementation of the policy. 
But Dean of Students James Roemer said the draft is only preliminary and that some points may be changed. 
"There is a considerable amount 
that can be negotiated," he said. 
"We're not naive enough to think 
that this draft is the final answer." 
"What the administration wanted to do was to make our policies consistent with the law of the land," he added. "I don't think there should be an impasse be­tween the University and the stu­dents." 
There will be an opportunity to discuss how the alcohol policy will be implemented at the Campus Life Council meeting which will bt" "probably next week sometime," according to Rob Bertino, student body president. 
Said Roemer, "Before this directive is formally issued we're required to go over it with the 
CLC. It will be discussed with everybody on the CLC. This is a forum to discuss the issues." 
Roemer said the points in the directive that may be open to dis­cussion are: 

•What constitutes a par~v -The directive states, "Whenever al­cohol containers are open, the to­tal number of people in one room may not exceed four ( 4) persons or two ( 2) times the number of students assigned to sleep in that suite, whichever is the greater number. Private parties in privatt" rooms, even without beer and wine, shall not exceed these same number limitations unless prior approval from hall staff is ob­tained." Rot"mer said this point has to be worked out. He gave the ex­ample of students gathered in one room to watch a basketball or foot­ball game on television as an occa­sion where the rule might be 
negotiable. 
"This first draft tries to define what a party is. Those numbers arc not magic," he added. 

•Beer and wine on(v -Students or faculty may influence this policy. "The policy that has been adopted by the directive isn't covered in Father Beauchamp's commission report," said Roemer. "In those areas, such as liquor in rooms. the commission recom­mended to the officers of the Uni­versity that parties in hall party rooms and tht" two all-hall parties should be limited to beer and 
· wine. We took that one step fur­
thcr and said it should be kt"pt out of rooms too. But this goes back to the students and rectors. That's an area of negotiation." 
Roemer added that he felt "two or three martinis are more liable to lead to alcohol abuse to an eighteen or nineteen-year-old than a beer." 
•The numberofall-hallparties ­The directive states, "Each hall may have no more than two ( 2) all hall semi-formal parties at which beer and wine are the only al­coholic beverages allowed." Roemer stated, "I'd likt" to em­phasize the positive things. that is, increasing the number ofthese." 
Father John Van Wolvlear, vice president for student affairs, who also attended yesterday's meeting, added, "But when you look at it, they could change. They (semi­formals) are going to get so dull. You have so many halls having them you can't find enough girls to go to them. I just think it'sgoing to be a mess." 
•Fifty percent ofexpenditures for non-alcoholic items in ball party room parties -The directive states, "Food and soft drinks must be provided in a cost amount equal to the beer and wine." Roemer said, "This is a little stiff. I think." If students who are older than the legal drinking age want to spend 
see DIRECTIVE, page 5 


The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1984-page 2 


In Brief 
Because of the new alcohol policy, anyone wishing to move otfcampus next year will he allowed ro do so without penalty, as long as he contacts Fr. Michael llcppcn, director of housing, as soon as possible. He may be reached at 315 Administration Building (239-5878). An exact deadline for moving off campus may be set in the near future. -The Observer 
In conjunction withthe financial aid office, former Student Body President Brian Callaghan will send requests to graduating st·niors asking them to donate their housing deposits to a senior class scholarship fund. Callaghan first implemented the plan last year ht·caust· he felt Notre Dame's "financial resources were sorely lacking wht·n compared to any ofour peer institutions." Last yt·ar·s drive raist·d SI ~.ooo, of which Sl 0,000 was invested and 
s~.000 was given to needy students. With increased publicity and follow-up. Callaghan hopes to raise 520,000 this year. If seniors t·hoost· 10 rt·rurn tht:ir deposit to financial aid, their contribution will he their first alumni donation. Seniors can participate in the drive by returning tht· form which will be sent to them soon after Easter break. -Tbe Obserz,er 
John Z. De Lorean fraudulently mixed per­
sonal funds with thost· ofthe De Lor<!llln Motor Co. and is not entitled to a claim of SlJ7S,OOO of the bankrupt company's funds, a federal bankruptcy judge ruled yesterday. li.S. Bankruptcy .Judge Ray Reynolds (;raves ruled there was "a clear shov.·ing that (De Lorcan) comingkd corporate funds with his personal funds. There is no crnlihk evidence that this (."(Hllingling was disclosed to or aut­horized hy the (De Lon:an Motor) hoard." De Lorean, S9, is on trial 
in Los Angeles on charges of conspiring to distribute S22 million worth ofcocaine in a hid to salvagt· his bankrupt auto firm in North­ern Ireland. -AP 
Housing construction, hindered by late winter storms, fdl 26.6 pcrn·nt in March, the biggest decline on rt·cord. the government reported yesterday. The decline followed a strong rise in Ft·bruary ami analysts attributed both swings to un­usual weather conditions. llowcver, they warned that recent in· creases in interest rates were already beginning to put a damper on the housing industry. The Commerce Department reported that new home construction fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 
1.6-i million units in Man:h, down from 2.23 million units in February. -AP 
Three religious studies credits were added w 
Saint Mary's core requirements in a decision hy the Board of Regents last night. Tht• credits will first he required for the class of 19HH, and a two-courst· st·qucncc has been developed by the Religious Studies Department. The board also approved a center for spirituality, to be established by .June, llJHS. A two-week session on Carmelite sprituality involving courst· work and seminars has already been planned fiJr 1he center. The regents approved the 19H4-8S budget tiJr Saint Mary's of more than S20 million. -Tbe Obserz•er 
Of Interest 
A critically-acclaimedone-man show based on the lift· and writings of humorist James Thurber will be performed by William Windom at H p.m. April 2S in Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets for "Thurhn I," tht· last event in the 1983-84 Saint Mary's PcrtiJrming Arts Series, arc SS for adults and 52 tiJr stu­dents ami senior citizens. Tickt·ts may be reserved by calling the Saint Mary's Ticket Office at 2H--i--i626. A veteran television actor, Windom won an Em my for his leading role in NBC-TV's I969-70 
series," My World and Welcome to It," based on Thurber's work. lie also starred in ABC's "The Farmt-r's Daughter." Windom has made guest appearantTs on several scrks. including "St. Elsewhere," "Star Tfl·k" and "Night (;allery," and has played major roles in many televi­sion movies. -T/:Je Ohsen•er 
A new campus dramagroup called the Not-Ikady-­For-Notre Dame-Players will pfl·st·nt their debut, the Woody Allen comedy "(iod," tonight at Hand I0 in Washington Hall. A donation of S I i~ a~knlto help ddray t·osts. The play includes the dt·ath ofGod and il din·rse group ,,f ~JCh charactt·r~ as (;roucho Marx, Socrates. and (;rtTb c<~llnlllepatitis and Trichinosis. -Tbe Obserl'er 

Weather 
Partly cloudy, clear­
in~ this afternoon. High today in the 50s, with lows dippin~ to the 30s toni~ht. 

The Observer 
Today's issut' was proc...luc.:c:d by: 

The Ob!K"rver ( ( ~I'\ ~99 !-tOOO) ;, Protluctiun Consultant .................... Stc:\'t' puhh,hnJ ~1unll.l\ throuJ.:,II I rida~ .uut nt•sil(1l Eclitor ................. Guillermo Suarl'Z on holllt.' fool hall ~aturda~ ~. t'xt.·c.·pt lh-.<ign Assistant.... . ..... lev Chapdski dunn~ Cllf..tm Jnd \ .1c.:;Hwn pt.·nod~. The TvpeS<•IIers.. ....... .Jennift-r Bif1UI1. Miehdk ()hserver i!ot puhli~lu.:d h~ lhl' -'ludelll-' 111 l:anlo Ihe: l nin·r,IIY of Nl)lft.' llilllll' anU S.tllll \'c.•ll'S Editor....... . ........ MarY llc:aly \l.trv·-' (.olkl(c.: ~uh-'ntplion.'\ m,t\ ht· SfwrL< CO/Jl' Fditor... . ..... Phil Wolf pun. ha-'n.f for S.!'; pc.:r ~ l'Jf ( .s l'i pt.·r Ft•clfllr<'.'i Ct)p)' ttllltJr.. ........... <:at f-'ranc.:is :"'l'lllt'-'h:r) h~ '' ritin~ The Obst·rver, Ft.•tllllrt:s l.c~l'CJJII.... ... Kt·vin Williams Pt.) Uux (}. :\lotn l>;,amt· lndtan.t ·tCl'i"h .\'/) Oay Ltiitor.. .. .. .... Rarh Sh.'\'l'll~ 
The Observer i-' a nu:mhc:r 11fThe As-.1:\fC /Jal' l:"di:or.... .. ...)ody Radkr sociated Pre!'.~. -\II rc.:pruduc.:tion riglu.. 
arc: n·st·rn·d 
• j • , • , •• , • ,. • • • 
r'...;.~.... 



L-----~~~..~~~~----~~~~ 


Does she really have a problem? 
The social stigma of alcoholism has been wiped out to such an extent that you almost have to have a depen­dency problem to fit in. Walking into a bar and ordering a club soda is the new status symbol. 
So it shouldn't have been so shocking when this woman, this grande dame of genteel America broke down and admitted her pwblem. 
She sat uneasily amongst the common crowd at the Alcoholics Anonymous hall, almost emanating a refined, golden aura in the middle of the drab audience. With frayed nerves and dark circles under her once lovely eyes, she stood up and said in a quavering voice, "I am the University of Notre Dame, and I have a drink­ing problem." 
A tear fell from her eye. 
The crowd gasped. 
"I don't believe it," said one state school sitting off to the side. 
"Not her," said another. "Not Notre Dame." 
She tried to ignore the 
probing eyes of the colleges from underneath his un­and junior colleges and vo­tuckcd t-shirt. He had been tech schools seated around eyeing her doubtfully since her. She had never as· she came in. sociated with most of them. "Listen lady, I hung out in She lived in the big mansion t•very bar and tavern in In­on the hill and most of them diana and I ncn·r seen you in were blue-collar univer­any of'em." sities from in town. Staring "Alright," she cracked, "J straight ahead she con­drink by mysclt~ locked in tinued her story. my dark room." Her voice 
"You don't know how started to take on a pleading lonely it is keeping my tone. solitary vigil, setting an ex· The crowd started to mur­ample for the whole mer. civilized world. It all started Purdue loomed up in so innocently, just a little front ofher diminutive form. wine on Sundays." "I used to drink boiler­
Her voice cracked and the makers for breakfast. I know 
two southern girls sitting be­hind her jumped to comfort her. 
"It's alright," the University of Georgia said. "It's not so bad. I was getting drunk on Southern Comfort almost every night. I had to take pep pills in the morning just to get through the day." 
"She was always so dignifit·d," Georgia Tech whispered aside as she rubbed Notrt· Dame's shoulders warmly. 
Notre Dame's delicate face surrendered a few more tears. 
"Pretty soon I was getting drunk on weekends, and then I found myself sneaking around in the dark in Northern Indiana with sixths of brandy." 
"You mean fifths," Ohio State hdped out from the back ofthe room. He'd had many adventures with fifths ofall kinds. 
She spun around and snapped at him, "That's what I said. Fifths." 
She slowly turned hack and picked up her litany. 
ALL LATEST 

DIRECT WILLPOWER! 
SALES 
COMICS 
April24-29
also hard to find back issues 
AVAILABLE South Quad Mall 
THURSDAY AT 
6:00P.M. 234·1038 ~JU~tJJ~JUll Shakespeare Marathon Reading--tOO hours! 

STORE 1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND. 2J4-1 038 

Donations for the Milani Family Benefit Accepted
Opn: Met~.·fhvrt..I0.7, fri, I.... S.t. S-1 ~ow open Sunday 12·7___ 
~---~-----------------------------------~ 
Live Entertainment Tues., April 24 featuring Sherri Woods 
in the lounge 
This Is not a misprint 
IO~TACOBAR 
San.-Than. 9pm-dose 

Late Night Happy Hour 
San.-Than. 10pm-close 
$1.00 MARGARITAS 
2 for 1 BARDRINKS 
Kevin Binger 
Copy Editor 
Inside Wednesday 

"I even started mixing alcohol with drugs," she said with an appropriately shaky voice. "Smoking marijuana and plopping pills!" 
"Don't you mean popping?" UCLA queried with a hint ofsuspicion in his husky voice. 
"Ofcomse," she shot back at him, clenching the top of the bench in front of her with her thin fingers. "Popping. Do you think I don't know what I'm talking about? I'm a heavy drinker. I hang out in bars." 
.Just then Purdue University lumbered to his feet, his 
big beer belly protruding 
drunks and you don't look 
anything like one. Hell, you ain't even got bloodshot 
eyes. You ... 

"Alright! Alright!" she cried out. "So I don't drink myselfsilly and pass out and throw up. I still drink. Beer and wine. And shots of whiskey on my birthday! I need help." 
She searched around the room for a sympathetic pair of eyes but the whole room broke out into fits of laughter. 
"I do have a problem! I do." She stamped her feet on the floor. But the crowd was wiping the tears from their eyes and ignoring her. "Come on," someone yelled, "mineral water and vegetable plates on me." They all started filing out, leaving poor Notre ll!me 
"I just wanted to fit in," she called after them. She heaved a sigh. "Damn. If I spend another weekend discussing the role of the Church in Latin America over gin and tonics I'm going to go crazy." 

The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1984 -page 3 

• DOES YOUR GROUP • 


$$ $$
NEED MONEY? 
The Student Activities Board Movie Lottery for next year is April25 
Applications available on the 2nd Floor 
of LaFortune  
•r.  6  Deadline: April24 •  •  6  •.,  

ICELANDAIR IS STILL YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE. 
LUXEMBOURG 



S4BI 
NEW YORK 
ROUNDTRIP FROM: 


S50I 
BALTIMORE/ WASHINGTON 

S568
S560 

CHICAGO
DETROIT 

ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS, FRANKFURT AND NICE. REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS: 
6 Free deluxe motorcoach from Luxembourg to select cities in 

Germany, Belgium and Holland. 6 Bargain train fares to Switzerland 
and France. P Super Saver car rentals from $69/week in 

Luxembourg. P Free wine with dinner, cognac after. Super APEX Fares. May !·June 9. !984. 7-60 day stay. 14 day advance purchase reqwred. 
lcelandair to Lt.txembourg. Luxair connecting service to other destinations. Purchase t1ckets 
mU.S. All fare• subject to change and government approval. See your travel agent or caU 
R00/555·1212 for the taU-free lcelandair number in your area. 

itltiiiiitl«is~.·~~­
...,.... .· ·.·,·~·-·.· ·.-.· ·,·_·' ' ·~~.· ',. ·.·..·... '.".· •.•. ;.·.. ­

'Ca1npus reactions to policy varied 
By CAROL CAMP 
andJOHN MENNELL 
Senior StaffReporters 
'"This could be the way for the stu­dents to bring down the present ad­ministration ... Something needs to be done to bring them to reality." 
A former hall staff member who requested anonymity made the 
\ preceding statement yesterday in response to the report of the Com­mittee for the Responsible Use ofAI· coho!. He added, "The administration is not close enough to the students to be empathetic with where they're coming from, so when they come out with policies, they're making stabs in the dark ... A policy that is not accepted by the students is not a good policy ... in order for it to be a good law, it must be enforceable and must be taken seriously." The source then presented a chal­lenge to the student body: "This could be an important mo­ment for the students of this University ... if they don't react to this, then I wonder about them." Rectors· reactions to the new policy were varied. "I don't see any change in the rectors role," said Rev. David Garrick. rector of Keenan Hall. Both Rev. Mario Pedi of St. Ed­ward's and Sister Marietta Murphy of Badin foresee some change. "I could see the role of the rector as a little more disciplinary than ministerial," Murphy said. Pedi thought his role would be "a little more legalistic." The rectors will have "no option but to enforce it," according to Murphy. Whether or not they saw any changes in their role, rectors agreed the new policies would not affect their relationships with students. Although there was general agree­ment that there is an alcohol problem on campus, some were less sure. Brother Ed Luther ofMorrissey Hall said, "I don't know." Praise for the new policy and its authors was voiced by some rectors. "It appears to be intelligent and coherent," said Brother Frank Rot­saert "I have great respect for the members of the committtee." "The new policy may bring about more social interaction but it is too early to tell," said Murphy. Many rectors contacted by The Obsen1er last night declined to com­ment on the new policy. "The rec­tors need time to assimilate and get 

student reaction,"' said Sister jodie Screes of Farley Hall. Others had not yet completely read the 28-page report. 
Members of the Hall Presidents Council were more willing to voice their opinions. Flanner Hall Presi· dent Tim Reilly said, "I think (the ad· ministration) is just trying to hide it and to nut it behind closed doors ... to mal.l· ~otre Dame appear immac­ulate in public." 
Hall Presidents Council Chairman 
Chris Tayback stressed the need for 
immed-iate action, "The HPC must 
demand that the social alternative 
proposals discussed in the report be 
implemented soon." 

Dillon Hall president Bernie Pel· ligrino called on student advisors to administration committees to resign their positions to protest the report. According to Pelligrino, '"They do the dirty work. and then the ad· ministration does what they had planned to do all along. That's what the administration considers to be student input." 
Hall presidents agreed that the im· plementation of the alcohol policy would provide them with some un· anticipated challenges during their tenures. Pasquerilla East president joAnn Chavez emphasized the need for creativity: 
"It will be hard to have hall ac­tivities, but they won't stop. We'll just have to be more creative ... You can be mad, but you have to live with it, so we should accept it as a challenge and show the University that we can live without alcohol." 
Student Activities Programming Board Director Kevin McGovern agreed, "We're going to have to be a lot more imaginative -the great part of the summer will be spent thinking of ways to make students active." 
Student Body president R:Jb Ber­tino said, "There has been a groundswell ofstudent interest." He is establishing a list of volunteers to help protest the new policy. "If anyone wants to help they can call 

Decio 

continuedfrom page I 

teachers at Decio Hall ifthey want to contact them." 
Once the weather improves, landscaping should be completed quickly. A park is planned between O'Shaghnessy and Decio Halls. 

239-7668 and get on the list." 
'"I have not been given a copy of the policy yet," Bertino said, "I had to obtain one by my own methods." 
Other plans mentioned by Ber­tino were a review of the policy this weekend ti>r discussion at a special Student Senate meeting on Tuesday, and a rally on April 28 which will feature Harold B. Augustine, if enough money can be raised to pay for his plane fare to South Bend. 
"We are not going to let this die down over break,"" he said, "It is drawing national attention. I have been interviewed by ABC in New York and it has been on the wire."' 
"I think this year's freshman class will be affected the worst,"" he added. '"The incoming freshman will never know how it was." 
Next year's RAs will be especially affected by the new policy, because as members of hall staffs they are responsible for enforcing it. Future RAs expressed concern over how the policy is going to be enforced. 
joe Harmon, an RAin Flanner next year, believes the new policy will re­quire a great deal of interpretation by the RAs. 
"'I feel that whatever (policy) it is, I"ll have to enforce it in the light of my own views and the person I'm dealing with." 
Other RAs worried about the policy's ambiguities, including the definitions of ··party'" and "drunkenness."' Patti Riley, a future Pasquerilla East RA, raised an interesting question: 
'"The new policy is going to be particularly interesting for me and a few of the other RAs who won't be twenty-one until the middle of next year -how are we going to police parties that we're not even supposed 
to attend?"  
Student  reaction  was  
predominantly  negative.  Banners  
hanging  from  dorm  windows  

expressed student views, ranging from Dillon's desire to secede from the University to a sign on Cavanaugh simply asking "Why?" 
Skurski said that as a practical matter he discourages visitors until the moving process is complete, due to 
the  pre-landscaping  mud  and  the  
tail-end of the construction.  
Professor  Sonia  Gernes  of  the  

English Department now occupies her new office. Like the others it contains a large picture window, a smaller window that can be opened. a controllable heating unit, a built-in bookcase, carpeting, a built-in worktable, a new desk, a tiling cabinet and two new chairs. 
Gernes said. ''I'm really very pleased. It (the oft1ce) feels very spa­cious after being in the library base­ment. Part of that. l"m sure, is the expanse of vision out of the win­dow." Her only complaint was the book-shelf space. She said, "I've al­ready outgrown the bookshelves." 
An emphatic response to the move came from Prof. Leslie Martin of the English Department. He compared his new office to his old one and said it is "as heaven is to hell. I've waited 18 years. I hated the offices in the library basement per· haps even more vividly than my col· leagues. It will revolutionize my life. 
"I think the University is going to be suprised at the increased output of the Arts and Letters faculty,"' he added. 
·Prof. William Leahy of the Economics Department believes "the biggest payoffwill be improved faculty-student relationships. I think you'll t1nd the faculty more available because they"ll be in their offices more often." 
Though the move will be com· pleted by the end of this year, Skurski said the University is plan­ning a formal dedication and grand opening on Sept. 13, 14 and I 5. There will be a symposium on the general role of the College of Arts and Letters and a formal convoca­tion. Guest speakers from across the 
. ~QIJOtr.Y _wUl.<!tt~ll<! the. (e§tiyities. 

The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1984 -page 4 

Callaghan suggests commencement ceremony boycott to protest policy 
By KEITH HARRISONJr. 
Senior StaffReporter 
"I would love to sec 1,700 empty st·ats in front of Hcsh1,1rgh and Ruppe on commencement day," said for­l)ler S!Udent Body President Brian CallaJ.:han at the Hall Prcsidt·nts' mn·ting last night. 
Callaghan was talking about a st·nior class boycott of the gradua­tion tTrt·mony -one of three pos­sible responst·s to the new \lnivcrsitv alcohol policy that he presented to the II PC. 
Tht· hoycolt "could he a way for till' senior class to say that we ft-d strongly about the decline in stu­dell! liti: here," he said. 
(:allaghan's second suggestion was that the IIPC contact alumni and ask t(,r assistance. "I think the alumni will realize that this is not an alcohol que.,tion. but rather a I.JUCstion of student life." he said. 
The third idea discussed involved writing to prospective freshmen and 
"letting them know what we think of studcnt life," Callaghan said. However, he added, one problem with this proposal is that the names 
of  prospective  freshmen  are  not  
available to the public.  
"One of the problems with  our  

former alcohol policy was the lack of uniform enforcement in the halls," said Callaghan. "We t·an only hope that the same thing (lack ofenforce­ment) will happen now with the new policy." 
<:allaghan gave the presidents ont· suggestion for improving the social lift· in their halls. "Whatever you do, get involved with other dorms. Put on a hall talent show. There should be 24 Keenan Revues a year. Tht·y may not be too big in the beginning, hut it will ht· better than watching 'Fiashdancc' in the Engineering Auditorium," he said. 
Many of the prcsidt·nts cxprt·sscd disapproval li>r tht· new alcohol policy. "They've just copped out," said Keenan prt'sident Kevin Howard of the administration. "They're taking care of the legal responsibility, but not the moral responsibility." 
Much of the criticism focused on two ideas not included in the al­cohol committee's 28 page proposal: outlawing bars in student rooms and the definition of a party. "The University may he including those ideas just as possible conces­sions, in order to pacify the stu­dents," warned Peggy Hess, president of Pasqucrilla West. "I think we should address the major points of the proposal instead." 
The banning ofbars is a rule added by the Officers of the University; the definition of a party has yet to he made. 
HPC Chairman Chris Tayback set up a committee to appeal any future decisions made on the alcohol policy. lie said Student Body Presi­dent Rob Bertino is planning a stu­dent rally to occur during An Tostal. 

SMC to renovate science building 
By KAREN THOMPSON research space on the north side of Neu•s Staff the building. The crucial part ofthe renovation, . 
Saint Mary's science building, as according to Lindowt·r, is that wdl as both lloly Cross and LcMans "there arc a great deal of mechani­I falls, will be rt·novatnl. during the cal, heating, and ventilation m:xt three )Tars. In addition, "St. matnials involved." lie added, "We Mary's will ht· investing nearly S I 0 lookc.:d li>r an architect who would million in rt·novating, expanding take this into consideration, and ami updating our current physical who had previous experience in plant," according to Controller designing science buildings." lason Lindowcr. Construction on the new wing 
A new wing of the science build­will take approximately 16 months. ing, designed hy Clinton Sathrum, When the addition is finished, will provide more classrooms and faculty will move into the new build­lab ~pace by adding a drcular hal­ing and renovation will begin on the lw~y with faculty offices and t·xisting building. 
. ' 
1t.a.£t'~.QJ~~·~'~~~E1TlN .~JfiJ­
~_£-l;OOTBAll:.·w~t~D.' 
----·----PURDUE . .I 
September • ,, '84 Hoosier ro~ ,SI u'':..anopolls '4l··s~er person 
---.MICHIGAN STATE--------. 
September 15. 1984 East lanstng, Michigan 14800 per person ., • .......,....,.."DtO<c-r>~..t...-..-.lo7/II&IJ 
.............._...... MISSOURI......,.......,~ 
September 26·30. 1984 Columbia. M1ssouri 119900 per person • 
-lOUISIANA STATE=-=­UNIVERSITY & World's Fair October 23-26. 1984 New Orleans and Baton Rouge 
172000 per perwn • ---·-lOUISIANA STATE -----.. UNIVERSITY 
October 26-26. 1984 New Orleans and Baton Rouge 147200 per pen;on • _ _...........,_NAVY.-......._...-....-.. 
November 2·4. 1984 Giants' Stadium. New Jersey Weekend 1n New 'obrk City 
'399"" per person • --UNIVERSITY OF-=-­SOUTHERN CAliFORNIA 
November 23-28. 1984 los Rngeh,., California and Including 4 doys In los Vegas (No Home Tetevtslon) 
1669"" per person • 
,.,lease conftrm reservations for ~ Ptk.t•• nom. PU6A 0 Not•• Oat,.I.SU (tl cklyt.) loN<w•• Onn-4~ 0Noft•Donw l5U(Jdoys) ' (bul~l o~•• nm.Nc'M,! 
'lJ ~·• r>om. MK"'9m \r 0 Noc•• D...,..usc Q~.Oomct~~ lMV~ 
t _____ Depmlt ~per~ 1$ enclosed 
' _ ~ -·. hill povmer1. per person enclowd ' 
·~o..NpO'"O(IJ 
'lltoCord• --------f•p~n 
IAIX*•n 
'r"\f/5tol•illp --~ 
r.~ ~ 
SPKIAl OFffA 

fi"'Source
..:Travel 
PO Box 1602 Soulh Bend. Indiana 46634 (2..!J!) 236·2656 
• "'.•., • • -.••..•.. • r-.-_-:':P..:. -~-.f 





L----------------------------------------------------------------------­
wbe1Knigltt6 oftftt<trastle 
I , 
The cost for this task has been es­timated at S6 million. Funds will be raised by gifts and pledges, and by selling tax exempt bonds during construction. 
Funding for the Holy Cross and LeMans remodeling will be provided by the S3. S million Col­lege Housing Loan that Sailll Mary's received from the US. Office of Education. The cost will cover a wide variety of renovation projects, including the installation of fire alarms and smoke detectors in both dorms. In Holy Cross, an emergency light will be installed, and the fire escapes will be repaired. 
• < I 


277-1691 
$8 50 Haircut, Shampoo
272-0312 
Blowdrv 
offer only applies to male patrons 
Hrs: Tues. Wed: 8:31)..5:30 54533 Terrace Lane Thur, Frl: 8:30-8:30 Across from Martin's Sat: 8:()().2:30 
St. Rd. 23 Clo~edMon. 
~-------------------~--------, 
Enjoy Barclay's
CLIP 
CLIP
COUPON 
FILET MIGNON COUPON
&SAVE '3 
(REG. 8.95-WITH COUPON 5.95) &SAVE '3 OR 

STUFFED FRETMIGNON 
WRAPPED IN BACON AND TOPPED WITH SAmED MUSHROOMS 
(REG. 9.95-WITH COUPON 6.95) 

_... 0rurrii)fj
_... 1'\ 1LET .
Each entree includes a bot­
695
' t\\)ra-; tomless tureen of soup,5 __ · --baked bread and your choice of baked potato, ; home fries or rice mason. 
OUR REGULAR MENU IS ALSO AVAILABLE 
May not be used with other call~ or advertised spec:ials. I" 
1 
OFFER EXPIRES MAY 5,11184 I 52885 U.S. 31 North, South Bend Ph. 272-5478 1 

GRADUATE WOMEN'S STUDIES SPECIALIZATION In The M.A. In Philosophy 
Earn credentials in both Philosophy and Women's Studies in one 12-month program Assist in and qualify to teach in both subjects Engage in independent feminist research Work closely with highly qualified inter­disciplinary faculty 
Gain valuable experience In women-oriented Insti­tutions and activities Assistantships available 
Write today: Dr. Sheila Ruth, Director Women's Studies Program Dept. of Philosophical Studies Box43 
SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY AT EDWARDSVILLE Edwardsville, IL 62026 
An Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer 
and now the film ... 
A NORMAN JEWISON Film 
..JESUS CHRIST SUPERSfAR" 

at CHAUTAUQUA Tues. April17 & Wed. April18 7:30, 9:30, 11:30 Adm $1 
• WANTED:
• 

: Any student interested in : applying for positions of 

• 
: PRODUCER and DIRECTOR •
• 
: for STUDENT PLAYERS (1985-6): 
• sign up on lnd FLoor, LaFortune, • • Student Activities Board • 
• Deadline: FRIDAY, APRIL 27 • 


and Sunshine Promotions 

JON •NOfR50M CHRIS SOU! A£ TREVOR IIA.IN ALAN WHITI!! fONV KAYE 
Thursday, April26 7:30P.M. Notre Dame A.C.c;s" All Seats Reserved $12.50 
Tictfutsdl)' Mat tl'ie A.C.C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City). Robertson's (Soulh Bend, Town and Country and Concord Mall). Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (laPorte). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). World Record (Goshen). 
..."-"'·~...... . • • . ,. I,. 1 Jil'!~M~u~s~l·c~·..~!ol~~g~l~c·(B•e"'!n•t"'!o•n.,HII!'a•r•b•o•r)•a•nll!'d~K·a•rm-a•Rii.'ei.'c,.·o,;.•r.,.?~_.s.,(Fi.t•.wirrl'..~..y•n•e•)___,... 
-----~-...~-----~~--------------...~. :-: .
••• --. '.·.. • •••••..... •••.. ·.·.·.·.·-·--"c.t"t.tt"t't't ···f.~fc.···,,-.. ,,-•• , •. ,.... ,...... ~··1#··,,1' •.•. 


------------, 
The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1984 -page 5 

The: Observer/Carol Gaks 

Student critics Paso now on display in the Isis Gallery of the Art Freshmen Rena Wellman and Polly Maier appear to Building. The exhibition is on tour in the United admire the exhibition ofMexican art by Fernando Del States, sponsored by the Mexican Cultural Institute. 
r--------------------------,I
I NOTICE 
I I
I Students, faculty, and etc., male or female-1 I we can start you in your own janitorial IIbusiness for only $9.95, part time or full time. 1 
I I
1 *no more summer jobs I 1 *no more minimum wage I 1
I *make $8-$15 an hour 1 1 *have clients immediately I 1 For more information, send replies to: I 1 SunBelt Services 1
I 
213 South Lovell Rd. I 1 Chatanooga, Tennessee 37411 I 
~-------------------------­
·: 
JOHI MARSHALL 

LIW SCHieL 

1313~11.,N.E., ........GA... 
APPLICATIONS NOWTAIEN 
February, June, Sept....,lldmlaii.DM 
Day or Event.,g Cl..... Joltn .,.,.,.,U.Scltooi . ..,.·WICIIotlf
,.,.,.,tonetlomll ·~· 
APPROVED FOR VETeRANS 
from John ......_" meets the-•iUhr-..nent.. ~ B•Exa~ 1n ~a.tc~I.URitan••


(404)811-383 
• 
OPEN & VAN TRAILERS-All SIZES • CAR-TOP CARRIERS • BOXES 

• 
TRUCKS-7 TO 24 · • PACKING, LOADING &UNLOADING 

• 
TRAVEL TRAILERS• CAR TRANSPORTS • FREE GUIOE • 24·HR. ROAO SERVICE 

• 
TOW BARS • FWD TOW DOLLIES • HITCHES; WE RENT. SELL, INSTALL 

• 
HAND TRUCKS • FURNITURE PADS • U-STORE ROOMS. • MAIL BOXES 


LOW RATES I ONE·WAY & LOCAL RENTALS ,.,.,,.,.....1 U.S., CANADA & ALASKA • A'' 


-<T I 
SOUTH BEND 1120 S. Michigan ............. 287-6533 
•3410. WB$tern Ave.·-··-~ ...••_..•282-2801 .... : 
Assertion Training Workshop 2 
By popular demand, the Notre Dame Counsel­ing & Psychological Services Center is offering a second workshop on assertion skills 
Dates: 4/25/84 6:30pm • 9:30pm 4/28/84 1 :00 · 3:30pm 
This workshop is a 2 session structured activity in which you will learn about assertion skills, when they are appropriate, and practice how to use them. The workshop will be held at C&PSC 
To sign up: Call 239-7336 or stop by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center, 3rd floor, Student Health Center, M-F from 9-5 






o·s~~ 

Restaurant and Lounge n 
1 51 6 North Ironwood l 
c-----233·77_47:-:~---· 
Presents 
music by 

DEWAN 
Wednesday, Aprill8 As a guest D.J. 
10 


Directive 
continuedfrom page I 
less than this, he said, "I think it would be okay if they sat down with their rector to discuss this. I think that's a negotiable item." 

•Underage 
drinkers in non-alcoholic pm·ties -Roemer said this item was included to prevent underage students from drinking in their rooms and then attending parties. He admitted, "This could be worded better, but we don't want students to make a joke out of this. This (the directive article) is an attempt to make sure that doesn't happen. We hopt' good parties will takt' place in thost' rooms without alcohol. Ifsomt'body could come up with a bt'ttt'r and more reasonable wording, this could be negotiatt'd." 

•Student 
identification cards -Tht' dirt'ctive states, "Students from other collegt's ... must carry a stu­dent ID card from their own collegt' to be allowt'd in the Notre Dame residence halls and must surrt'ndt'r it upon rt'quest by hall staff or Security personnd." Rot'mer said this could mean women from Saint Mary's and otht'r schools would hand in their IDs as tht'y t'ntt'r a Notre Dame dorm and have it rt'tUrnt'd to tht'm when they leave, similar to the proct'durt'S Notrt' Dame students currently go through when visiting a Saint Mary's dorm. 


"This would probably depend on 
how the hall rector would enforce it, pretty much at tht' discretion of tht' rector and when he would want to use it," hi:' said_ 
Van Wolvkar added that if these policies didn't work, there is an al­ternative. ''You askt'd if we wt're snious about enforcemt'nt. If this dot'sn't work, we might go dry," he said. 
Ont' point Roemer said would not bt' nt'gotiabk is tht' use of hall party rooms by underage drinkers. "That is a vital art'a and an important point that tht' University's administration made, and I don't think they'll back off at all in this area. But if you're talking about art'as of distinction, Wt''rt' talking about the numbt'r of pt'opk" allowed in dorm rooms. 
Anotht'r point tht' dirt'ctivt' addresst'd was tht' prt'senct' of bars in dorm rooms. "Bars art' not per­mittt'd in studt'nt rt'sidence rooms," it says. Roemer did not mt'ntion this as a point that could bt' nt'gotiated. 
HI:' added, "Wt''rt' basically closing down underagt' drinking in hall party rooms." 
Rot'mer said hi:' wantt'd to t'm­phasize the positiVI:' points of the new dirt'ctive. "Obviously, I want to point out the Green Fidd thing. This is the first timt' WI:' ever said in print it was okay for students to have a keg in the parking lot. We thought in all fairness to tht' students WI:' wanted to point out what is reasonabk. Kegs are okay in that instance bt'cause bonks and cans create a cleaning problem." 
Another positive point Roemer emphasizt'd was the presence of Senior Bar•on the campus. "This Uni­versity provides an alumni/senior dub and I think that's a very unusual situation for a college or University, especially in Indiana." 
Father William Beauchamp, chair­
man of the alcohol committee which released its report Monday night, said, "The directives will come back to the committee for reaction. I don't see any flexibility in the report. In those areas (which Roemer said were flexible), these items are still open to discussion be­cause that has been left to be decided by the Student Affairs office." 
When asked if tht' directive was released with the intention of being negotiabk, Roemer replied, "I think there's a little bit of that, that's true. For exampk, when we're talking about the number of people in a room, should we have started with ten?" He said he decided to start with a low number to be upward ne· gotiabk rather than start with a high number and work down from there. 
"If a student reasonably argues that some point doesn't make any sense, then we would be ready to discuss it," he emphasized. 
Beauchamp added, "They aren't written in concrete. The tendency would be to try to get them as dose to concrete as you can and then dis­cuss them from that point." But he continued, "What is in the commit­tee's report is not debatable." 

j 
j
.---------------------------~ 
~i~~~_()__ ____________________w_oo_ne-~a-y,-~-ril-18_,_198_4__pa~~-6





i_J1t 

Marine recounts horrors of Lebanon 

llis name is Brian Bashort·, he is from South lknd, and ht· has ju~t come back from Beirut, wht·re he servt·d as a member ofthe American "peacekeeping fi>rce." 
Bashore, 21, served duty as a U.S. Marine in l.dlanon from May 2H to November 9 of 19H_t 
Santiago O'Donnell Guest column 
lie is n~rrently stationed in jacksonville, N.C. lie doesn't like to talk about himsdf, and he certainly won'ttcll me abouttht· fi>ur tinH.·s he was decorated for heroic actions in the "troublt-d nation" of the Middk East. 
Brian wants to tdl me something clst·. llis tt·stimony of tht· horror of Beirut and his criti­t·al analysis soon silenn·d my questions about his (X-rsonal background. 

"In thefirst month and a halfnothing hap­pened, u•e fJlt~ved l'olleyhall u•ith the French and /b(• Italians. and u•e mot•ed in groups around the ci~y Around August and Septem­ber sniper fire began to hit us. We began using bullet-protifr,ests 24 hours a dt~)'. 
"The Dn1se ami Moslem militia groups started hitting us tl'ith rocket fire and tank munds. We u•ere like sitting ducks getting ourbeads bloun tiff The rtictims ofsniper or rocket fire in the early months were dubbed 'accidents' by the press." 
To give me a better idea of the situation, he 
takes my pen and note book and draws a 
detailed map of the area surrounding the ll.S. 
Marine base in Beirut. He tells me that the sup­
port provided to the ll.S. peacekeeping force 
by the minority Christian government and by 
the ti.S. trained Lebanese Army was limited 
and inefficient. 
Brian reminds me that as soon as the 
Marines pulled out, the Christian government 
fdl. Why did they pull out? 
"On April 23 (the day a ti'Uck full ofex­plosives hit the Marine base in Beii'Ut) 1 was guarding the main gate. When the blast hap­pened I u•as knocked to the ground by the repercussion. Afterafew seconds1got up and sau• some thir~}' people come out of the ruined building and begin walking around. Two hundred and for~v one Marines had beer1 killed. 
"At first it was all confusion. My best friend, Donald Sharp, steps over a half ofa bodyanda seargent orders us topick it up. At first! refused but soon 1 realized that1 had to do it. It was thefirst bot~V 1 carried that day." 
Ifis voice is broken, our eyes wt:t, but he is very much in control. lie could not cry on April 23, he tells me. He had to work for 54 sleepless hours putting bodies on stretchers for the helicopters to take away. Hours "tagging" bodies, placing them first in body bags, and then in sleeping bags when tht· body hags ran out. 

"Some of the bodies 1 could not even 
recognize, some I could barely recognize, 
ones who bad been plaJ'ing basketball with 
me the day before. Every hour orso (after the 
explosion) we bad to take coverfrom sniper 
fire which interrupted our work." "But 
even when death was all around, there was 
hope. What was amazing was that after three 
days of being buried under the I'Uins, the 
chaplain was rescued and be came out 
walking, practical~)' untouched. Nothing 
happened to the chaplain!" 

Brian tells me about his decorations and shows me his scars. Ht: says that he has lost a lot offriends. 
"On May 25, 19831had myfirst confinned 
kill. in a street corner 1 saw the bead and 
shoulder (if a man, and lhe point of a gun 
directed a/ me. 1 shot 27 rounds at bim and 
hit him with 17. 

"/felt relieved in a way because 1 could answer the fire that was killing us. By the Rules of Engagement of the peacekeeping force we could onzv open fire ifwe saw a per­son with a gun aiming directly at us. How can you see a sniper in a tree?" 
Brian is angry with Reagan becaust: he was "directly rcsponsiblt"' for orders that "handcuffed" American troops in Beruit. 
"Colonel Gerrity (accused of not taking the necessary measures to prefJetlt the deaths on April 23) U'as used as a scapegoat by the press to cover up for Reagan's mistakes. I thought that be did a goodjob. 
"The French bad a 150 yard kill zone and they shot at anything that entered this perimeter, and still, they got blown up three minutes after we did. Reagan should haue either put us on the offensive (we bad the pou,er to wipe them off), or be should btwe pulled us outassoon as thefighting started." 
Brian is also angry with the press. 

"The people have the wrong view ofu•bat happened there. Ear~}' on, the press said that the (American) deaths from snipers' bullets were accidental, that u•e were not inr,olved in a 'combat situation.' Ifthat was not com­bat, 1 don't know what is! W~r was I decorated with the Combat Action Ribbon, an award that, until Lebanon, had not been gitten out since Vietnam? i 
"Now the jountalists want to interttieu• me, but why didn't they talk before? I may hm1e the wrong idea aboutjournalists, hut 1 
justfeel that they did not say u•hat u•as going on." 
I answered that maybe it was not too late, that many Notre Dame students will read his testimony, and that possibly some will even­tually become presidents of the United States. "Yeah, maybe," he said. There is still hope. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Why Loret Ruppe? 
)earlidilor: 
On April -~-19H·l thl' Obsert,er announced that IA>rt·t Ruppt·, DirtTtor oftht· Peace Corps, would Jw thl· commencement spt·akt:r. I thought it was an intt·rt·sting choice until I rt·ad thl· articll' which rcvl·alcd her condon­ing tht· USl' of l'ederal funds h>r abortions of Pt•at-c Corps volunteers. 
It is hard to understand why a Catholic uni­vt·r~ity would invite one connected in any way with a pro-abortion policy to ddivt·r the commt·nlTilll'nl address. "For (iod holds man rt·sponsible not only for his individual sins. hut fi1r the corporate sins of society ... the grt·at impnsonal 'sol'iety' is not rl·sponsiblc li>r tht'Sl' sins -we arl·." (Charles Colson, 
Loving God".) 

I ask the llnivcrsity to reconsider tht· dloilT ofl.oret Ruppe as I would like to attend my daughter's graduation with some en­thusiasm. Why not consider Dr. Joseph Murphy, an estn·nll'd physil'ian who rdkcts Christian prinl'iplcs in thought and action? lie is the father of Mi<:hdle, who will ht· honored with a degree posthumously. 
Mari~J'n l.f!oidat St. Charles, illinois 
Locke's legacy 

J)eflr Fdilor: 
Sonll'thing happl'lll'd in tht· early part oflast week that I kd must not go unnoticnl in our community. Bill Locke. tht· Dirn:tor of Reneation ti1r St. .Jost·ph'~ County, passed away in thl· early l'\Tning last Tut·sday, April 
Ill, 191-H. 

If you did not know him pt·rsonally, his title may makl· him sound a distant part of Notre l>anll' student lift·. But I assure you, he was the most pl-rsonabk of men, and his contact with, ami p1>sitivc dft:ct on, stutknts m·t·r the last I<; ~Tars will bt· grl·atly mi!'>snl. 
I do not mean to otkr hl-rl' a t·ulogy li>r a 
man many students did not know. Instead, I merdy wish to stat~: that Bill Locke was a man, more than any other I have ever known, who lived out the Gospd every minute ofbis lift:. 
lie was a man capable ofgreat love and end­
less commitment to thl' less fortunate of our 
society. And he was a man who epitomized 
care and compassion in a time wht:n im­
mediate gratification Sl'ems to be the order of 
the day. 
So, I ask two things of this family of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. First, I ask that we pray for the beautiful family Bill left behind. Pray that they may find strength in the knowledge of his presence with God. Secondly, I would ask that we offer.;t,f>raycr ofthanks, that a man like Bill LJCkc was given to our community to share in its daily struggk to live out what it ml'ans to hl' fully Christian. 
Tom Dixon 
C(J-Director 
ND/SMC Councilfor the Retarded 
Short-sightedness 
Dear Editor: 
The letter in last Friday's Obsertter dearly pointed out that the Democratic Platform at tht· Mock Convention lacked any long-rang~: thinking, l'Spedally with regard to the Space Program. Short-sightnlness st:cms to be typi­cal ofpoliticians, hut it is especially dismaying to find it in collegl· students, who will have to pay for it dearly. 
In about ti1rty years, what kind ofworld will we lt:ave our children? Will we give tht:m one in which every nation wastes its precious non­renewable resources trying to defend what littk it has left, or will we give them the wealth of thl' solar system, so that economic injustice and poverty can be abolished? 
Do we dream of high prestige jobs, ex­pensive cars, and an upper-class likstyle when we graduatt·~ Or do we dream a little more, of passing some of our God·givcn talents on to others, by facing a ti:w of the more crucial issues of today, like poverty, justice, and nuclear arms? 

And do we also dream ofstirring the soul of Mankind, of multiplying the gifts God has given us, by looking aht:ad, opening the next frontier, and giving the needy of this world what th~:y really need -ad~:cent standard of living? 
lncidl'ntally, Paul Wilkins, Mike Traynor and I arc officers ofthe Notre Dam~: chaptt:r of the !1'5 Society, which seems to be the only organization on camJPUS doing any advance planning for the human race. 
The I.-'5 Society, an international organiza­tion, supports any activity which ensures human survival, primarily by the utilization of space. Since General Graham's Space-based ABM system may or may not help in that regard, the l.-'5 Society has not taken an official position on this controversial issue. though some ofits ml·mbcrs have taken stands on on~: sidt: or the other (i.e. Wilkins and Traynor art: for ABM, while I am not). 
In essence then, the Lr'5 Society's task is to provide a forum for information, so that everyone can become knowledgeable enough to make an informed decision. It tries to do this by publishing opposing viewpoints in the L-5 News, copies of which arc available from Mike Traynor in 217 Cavanaugh. 
Tihamer Toth-Fejel Graduate Student 
.I 

lltweyou read something in The Ohservcryou didn't quite agree with? Ifso, write a letter to the editor. Letters to the editor must be u•ell·wrJ'tten and tvped. They musl also bear the adt ress, telephone number and signature of /be author (initials ami pseudonyms are no/ acceptable). Material shorter than 200 words will receir•e priorilp. All letters are subject to etlillng and become the propertv ofThe Ohserver. 

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Editor-in·Chief. . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . . ..... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor _Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Edttor. . . ... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager . . .. Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . . . . ..... Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager. . .. Jeff O'Neill reflect Ihe polictes of the admlllistration of either Institution. The news is reported as News Editor . . . . . . . . . . Dan McCullough Systems Manager. . . . . . Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion Samt Mary's Editor . . . Anrie"rVV6nas1yrski of a majOnty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Sports Edttor. . . . . _Michael Sullivan present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor . . ____ ... Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966
community. and the free expression of varying op1n1ons on campus, through letters. Features Editor. _. . . . . .. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . ... Pete Laches 

"ielYP-~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------w_oo__n_e~~~~,Ap~ru-·_18~,~~9~M--~p~~~e~7~ 

P. 0. BoxQ Special Edition Students respond to the new alcohol policy 
Pocketbook policy 
DearEditor: 
father Beauchamp, you failed to restrict one freedom ofthe few remaining freedoms at Notre Dame; the freedom to donate money as an alumni. As a student I would like to exploit this freedom using your adminstration's han­dling of the Alcohol Policy as an example. 
In protest, I suggest that the students ofthis 
Unversity refuse to donate money as alumni 
for a time interval equal to the duration of the 
policy. For example, ifyour policy remains for 
eight years then I will refuse to donate money 
between my money-earning years of forty 
and forty-eight. 
Con'veniently, this proposal will exclude the debates and demonstrations which your administration abhors. I hope all students will seriously consider my proposal as an effective means of pressuring your administration into nullifying the Alcohol Policy. 
Patrick K Doyle Freshman 

A sober response 
DearEditor: 
We are writing to express our extreme dis­satisfaction and vehement opposition to the new University alcohol policy. We do not doubt the administration's sincerity in attempting to act in the interest of students. There is an alcohol problem on campus, and it needs to be dealt with. We must, however, question the subtle hypocrisy of the ad­ministration's actions. 
Foremost, the policy asserts that drunken­ness is wrong. It is both immoral in itself and its consequences impose a liability threat to the University. For this reason, activities which encourage drunkenness (parties) have been abolished. Yet tailgaters which unques­ti<mably encourage drunkenness will be allowed. 
The new policy permits tailgaters because "it would be almost impossible to eliminate alcohol at tailgaters." Why could they not simply say, "no tailgaters" just like they said, "no parties." One can only assume that the alumni presence at tailgaters makes the ex­emption unique. 
In order to crack down on drunkenness, the policy calls for both the implementation of 
so much out of his new alcohol policy. I myself was up to six-pack a night on weekends, and once I had a beer on a Thursday night. 
I know what kind of drunken, perverted destruction goes on here at Notre Dame. I think it is good that the administration has decided to build a new, more responsible al­cohol plan. I, as a reformed problem drinker, have come up with these additional points to insure the safety and proper education of Notre Dame students: 
( 
I ) The banning of maraschino cherries, olives, stirrers, coasters, and those little bam­boo umbrellas. 

( 
2)The banningofall beer posters and beer lights as these are pro-alcohol propaganda 

( 
3) All coins on campus will be converted into nickels and dimes so there won't be any temptation to play forbidden drinking games with quarters. 

( 
4) The limitation of all class sizes to three students and a teacher since it is common knowledge that more than four people in a room creates a party atmosphere. 

( 
5) All Jimmy Buffet albums containing the song "Margaritaville" will be searched.out and destroyed. 


(6) A mass burning ofall beer buggers. 
(7) Shot glasses, tumblers, and beer mugs will be broken. 
These are just a few of the changes that must be brought about by Fr. Beauchamp. I mean, hell, this school has gotten really bad. A couple ofweekends ago a bunch ofguys from my section went downstairs on a Sunday night and sat around in a room with all these other guys. 
For almost an hour we sang songs, drank wine, and shook hands. The guy running this party said it was called a Mass, but I've heard it was a celebration. · 
Next year can we make student arrests? My next door neighbor's family always visits him, and there's more than four ofthem. 
john R. Sullivan Freshman 
In very poor taste 
DearEditor: 
Yesterday, I had the occasion to visit the University as I will be entering as a freshman next August. As luck would have it, my visit took place on the same day that the alcohol 

new rules in addition to stricter enforcement ·Policy was made public. After years ofhearing 
of existing rules. Never, however, did the ad­ministration attempt to strictly enforce the present rules to see what deterrent effect they could have. Perhaps actually levying some S I 00 fines or closingsome parties would have caused an appreciable decline in drunken­
ness. 
Student cooperation with the new policy is said to be essential to forestall the administra­tion from imposing a completely dry campus. This is a cheap. ugly method of coercion. All 
along the committee openly expressed the opinion that a dry campus is not the answer. We have an alcohol problem -let's deal with it. The threat of a dry campus seems a petty way to insure a passive response from the stu­dent body. 
The new policy is labeled "irrevocable and beyond appeal." Our response can only be one ofemphatic disappointment. All apparent evidence indicates that the presence of rwo student members on this committee was merely an attempt by the administration to legitimize the policy without real student in­put. 
We must demand that the social al­ternative's deemed so vital ro the policy's effectiveness he instituted during along with the alcohol restrictions, not after the restric­tionsve have been instituted. The new policy handles only the effect (drinking), not te cause (an inadequate social life). 
Chris Tayback and the HallPresidents' Council 

Further restrictions 
DearEditor: 
Hey, what's everybody complaining about? I think fr. Beauchamp's only problem, aside from not smiling for his picture, is that he left 
what a studious and dignified place Notre Dame is, I must admit that I was a bit confused about the character of the school after seeing the assortment ofbanners that appeared in the south quad. Though the students, no doubt, have the right to protest this act restricting 
their privileges, I hold that many of the ban­ners transcended the bounds ofgood taste. 
Thomas Beatty Potential Freshman 
Not a bad idea 
DearEditor: 
The Obsen,er's attitude, that the new al­cohol policy will fail, and that any other social activities planned will not be successful. is highly pessimistic and an insult to the Notre Dame community. It is an insult in that it implies that students can find nothing to oc­cupy their time other than alcohol centered events. The University's new alcohol policy represents a reasonable and fair attitude considering Indiana state law, and com­parative regulations at other universities. Consequently. we fmd that the new alcohol policy is rational, plausible, and representa­tive ofthe University's best interests. 
Indiana is a 21 state; consequently, un­derage drinking at Notre Dame constitutes a privilege not a right. The students of Notre Dame had this privilege and abused it, thus forfeiting the privilege. The statement in your editorial, that alternatives to drinking at Notre Dame are insufficient to satisfy students' needs, refl.ec_ts the juvenile attitude of those 
' '?a..:;r}n~:it ,qnr 1 • ·' · 
who chng to their pacifying bottles in their 
inability to accept a cultured R&R. 
Notre Dame is an institution which prides 
itself on being distinguished above other uni­
versities. Purdue allows no alcohol in any of 
its dorms or at any on-campus social func­tions. Notre Dame is not a dry campus. The administration has only curtailed the use of alcohoL not eliminated it. 
We think that there are ways in which the student body can use its ingenuity to find al­ternatives which will provide a social atmos­phere while living within the restrictions of administration's guidelines. 
T. A. Lucey, D. F. Lee, and G.]. Ehrman Cavanaugh Residents 
Fight the good fight 
DearEditor: 
"Students registering at the University of Notre Dame enter into an agreement with the University based on freedom of inquiry, freedom of expresion and freedom of action 
. . . within regulations . . .. The University community expects its students to be respon­sible in their social conduct so as to reflect favorably upon themselves and the com­munity." ( 1983-84 Bulletin ofInformation) 
This obviously refers to a different Notre Dame and a different student body than the one I know. It was the above Notre Dame that I had been accepted to. The Notre Dame described above appears to be one based on mutual responsibility, mutual trust, and mutual respect between its students and its administration. This, however, is not the Notre Dame we attend. Recent administration dictates serve to illustrate this fact. Among these is the new alcohol policy, the antithesis to the above principles. 
The administration does not recognize or appreciate the wisdom of its former policy. Rather, they have opted for a 28-page mandate that contains sections so ludicrous that they border on the asinine. The specifics can be read elsewhere. The underlying principles in­volved with this new policy and its justice shall be dealt with here. 
Notre Dame students are supposedly the "cream of the crop." We are respected and admired. We are viewed by the outside world to be moral and responsible adults, but our own administration, the ones who selected us to attend this university;·refuses t&re€'0gnize these attributes. Instead we remain children, restricted by the administration's matemalis­tic apron strings. The most disturbing fact connected with the policy is the administra­tion's perceptionofthe student body. Theone group ofpeople who should know the caliber of the students and respect us the most is the group that does so the least. 
The principles of the policy are insulting and the mechanics are dangerous. The retarded social life we have on campus will disappear as the students disappear on the weekends. Unfortunately, those ofus who call for a change and cite the off-campus dangers will surely fmd a martyr for ourcause on some dark night next fall. 
The administration must realize that Notre Dame does not have a drinking problem. Rather, there is a small group ofstudents who have problems with drinking. This policy, which bans social drinkingyet condones a stu­dent drinking by himself in his room, fosters drinking problems rather than treating them. We all must suffer through an insufficient remedy while the problem drinker will con­tinue to drink as before. 
The policy is unjust, but it may serve as a catalyst to break our passiveness to the ad­ministration's dictates. Through responsible protests, we can exercise our "freedom ofex­pression and actions." There remain a few recommendations still open for negotiation. On Tuesday, April 24, the Student Senate will meet. An overwhelmingstudent turnout is im­perative. Our efforts may be fruitless, but at lea'it we will have tried At least, we will have fought the good fight. 
Steve Fole:J' Sophomore 
Academic decline 
DearEditor: 
I feel sorry for the faculty members who pride themselves on teaching at such a fine academic institution as Notre Dame. Some faculty members must be newly ashamed of their association with an institution which clings to antiquated and typically clerical responses to problems confronting their stu­dents. Instead of offering an invitation to stu­dents to a new way of thinking on a moral issue, the University has once again resorted to an authoritarian and patriarchal approach 

to the problem ofalcohol abuse on campus. 
Faculty members are not insulated by this decision. They realize that the students' living environments have everything to do with their frame ofmind in the classroom. The Uni­versity's removal ofstudents from one more area where students can exercise respon­sibility is not unrelated to the level ofthinking that will eventually go on in Notre Dame clas­srooms. 
This institution, which claims that it ed­ucates the "leaders of tomorrow's world" to apply Christian values to their decision­making process, yesterday exibited the ul­timate in hypocrisy. How can the administration honestly say that they have any degree of confidence in their graduates in making sound decisions on important issues, while not allowingstudents to make decisions on so relatively meaningless an issue as al­cohol consumption. 
GibGailius junior 

Dillon secedes 
DearEditor: 
Now that the issue has been forced upon us it is time for action not merely idle words. The symbolic shot has now been fired upon Ft. Sumter. We do not wish this conflict to lead to bloodshed, but in the event of administrative efforts to squelch our liberties or force us back into a union not ofour choosing we will use all the massive frre power available in our arsenal to protect our right to drink. 
Therefore, let it be known throughout the land that on the ignoble date ofApril 18, 1984 we the independent and sovereign Kingdom ofDillon Hall proclaim oursecession from the University ofNotre Dame. 
The basis for our secession being the prohibition without representation of our most cherished "peculiar institution." In doing so we call upon other southern halls, with the probable exception ofAlumni, to fol­low our courageous lead out of the tyranical grasp ofthe administration and their mercen­ary security forces. 
Although other historic attempts of seces­sion have failed we feel that our cause is just and that other nations of the free wOt"ld will back us in our attempt to establish sovereig­nity over our social lives. 
We have been pushed too far and for the last time. To paraphrase the immortal words of our famous patriot Patrick Henry, "Give us al­cohol or give us death." 
Seven Dillon Hall Residents 

We can't let it die 
DearEditor: 
We witnessed something interesting last night in the rallying against the administra­tion's new alcohol policy: a segment of this student body actually got offits duffS to go out and say something. It matters not that we sounded like babies screaming for their al­cohol bottles. We at least screamed! We proved to ourselves and to those around us that we are alive. Yes, we are alive! 
The question to be asked, though, is: will we nurture our new found consciousness, or will we let it all fall by the wayside with the onslaught of final exams and (thank God) summer? It matters not that we screamed once, for once is not enough. We must be in­sistent and do the hardest thing for anyone fighting for a cause: we must keep that part of ourselves which rebels against the kind of treatment we have recieved by this ad­
ministration smouldering througout the next 
few weeks and summer so that it can become 
ablaze again next fall. 
Then, we'll see if we can't grow up into a 
little civil disobedience. 
j. Michael Yore Sophmore 



Sports Briefs 
An NVA GolfReview. fcaruringgolfpro Dick Walker, will he held today, at 4 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. This will he a refresher class on the fundamentals of various golf strokes and is for golfers at all levels looking for a short review. The cost is S I and registration is through the NVA office. The number is 239-6100. -The Ohsen•er 
The Weightlifting Club will sponsor a bench 

prt·ss and squatting meet Saturday, May S, at I p.m. There will be mt·n's and women's weight classes and medals will be awarded to first through third places in each class. The meet is open to everyone, including varsity athletes. Sign up at Rockne weight room or t·all Pat ( 8"'62) or Mark ( I I S6 ). Fee is S2. -The Ohsen•er 
The Dancin' Irishwill hold an organizational meeting Wednesday, April .2'l, at 6::30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater for all interested in being on the 1984-198S squad. Information will he provided on the upcoming tryouts. Those who cannot attend should call Patti Whitehouse ( 80.27) or Jan Albrecht ( 4:304 ). -The Ob­sert•er 
The An Tostal GolfTournament will be held Wednes­day. April 2S. at I p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. To sign up in advance, call Pat at 816.2. Otherwise, just show up at the golf courst· before I p.m. on the day ofthe event. Awards will be given to first thrct· finishers. -The Ohsen1er 
Three grad studentstook the top spots in last Satur­day's Irish Spring Six. Awahya Frands was first overall, with a time of :31 :jS. The first undergrad student across the finish line was)effWes­thoven, who was fourth overall, with a time of 32:3:3. The winners in other divisions arc John Akers, men's faculty division; Madeline Murphy, women's overall; and Colleen Donnelly, women's under­
grad division. -The Obsen,er 
Wednesday, April 18, 1984 -page 8 
Many changes made 

Players adjust to new positions 
ByJOE BRUNETTI 
Sports Writer 
Ifthings continue as they are now, there will be some familiar faces in som!: new positions on next fall's Notre Dame football team. 
Three offensive players have been moved to the defensive backfield, while a linebacker and an offensive lineman have also changed posi­tions. 
Outside linebacker Mike Larkin has been moved to inside lineback­er. A broken arm forced the Moeller High graduate to sit out the 1983 season after a banner campaign in 1982 as a sophomore. The 6-1, 219­pound communications major was the second leading tackler for the Irish in 1982 while starting all 11 games. 
"I feel really comfortable (with the new position)," said Larkin. "I played it in high school at Moeller, and it's a lot less headaches. There's a lot of different theory between outside and inside, but I'm familar with the differences." 
Defensive coordinator Andy Christoff feels the change will benefit both Larkin and the Irish. 
"We have three very good inside linebackers in Kovaleski, Furjanic, and Larkin," Christoffsaid. "We're trying to get the best 11 players on the field. We thought Larkin was one of the best 11 players. This way we can get all 

three (linebackers) on the field at the same time." 
Three offensive players, Hiawatha Francisco, Mike Haywood, and Van Pearcy, have been moved to the ddcnsive secondary -at least for the time being. 
Haywood, a S-1 1 sophomore, was forced to sit out the 198:3 season at: ter being injured in the Michigan State game. Haywood played the most minutes of any freshman of­fensive player in 1982, while grab­bing 13 passes. A talented corps of receivers and Haywood's speed led to his move to the other side of the line. 
"Haywood has excellent speed," Christoffsaid, "and we need it in the secondary. He also can contribute better to the team (in the secon­dary)." 
Haywood, like Larkin, also has previous experience at his new posi­tion. 
"I like the change. When I was brought here I was a defensive hack, but lhen the coaches thought I'd get more time at offense," said Haywood. "This system isn't as com­plex as the offense. It's really basic." 
Francisco had an impressive fresh­man campaign in 1983, rushing for 194 yards on 38 carries. He also play,ed behind Allen Pinkett much of the season at tailback after Greg Bell was injured in the Miami game. He made the switch in last Friday's practice and played fret· safety in Saturday's scrimmage. 
Francisco's switch has resulted 
from the emergence of another 
freshman. Alonzo Jefferson. at tail­
hack. If things remain as they arc 
now, Jefferson should he the person 
to hack up Allen Pinkett next fall. 
Jefferson spent most oflast year as a split end behind Joe Howard, and finished thl· season with three receptions. 
Van Pearcy, another receiver, also has been moved to the secondary. hut he will miss the rest of spring drills because ofa kncc injury. 
Larry Williams, 6-6, 286 pounds. was shifted from last year's tackle positon to strong guard, where he can better utilize his sizt· and strength. Williams started the first nine games in 198:3 at tackle before tearing ankle ligaments against Pitt. In 1982, the senior started ~very game at strong tackle, and as a t(esh­man he played in four gam1s at guard. 
"I'm getting used to the positJon," said the American Studies major. "I don't mind the change as long as it will help the team, and I think in the long run it will help." 
Senior Brian Behmer also has made the change from offense to defense. The 6-6 tight end has moved to outside linebacker for the present time, but that change probably won't be permanent. 

The Obserl'er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obseroer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:.30 p.m. until .3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is .3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­


Classifieds 
ters r da . 

Lost two 1ackets at Mornssey saturday n1ght One was a blue Notre Dame windbreaker and the other was a plainNOTICES blue Windbreaker They were left 1n the basement restroom. If found please call TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 aat 1087 or 8868 Thank-you very much. 
WE HAVE THE LOWEST AIRFARES TO LOST ONE BLUE HAWAIIAN CAP EUROPE! FOR FREE COLOR WITH COLORFUL TRIM STOLEN BY BROCHURE, WRITE TO: CAMPUS ONE OF THREE JOGGERS WITH TRAVEL, BOX 11387, ST. LOUIS, MO COLORFUL TRIM SOMETIME LAST 63105. WEEK BETWEEN KEENEAN AND ZAUM THE HAT IS NOT MINE BUT MY 
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBIIIIIII ROOMATE WHO HAS SINCE SUF· FE RED A SEVERE IDENTITY CRISIS. IF NECESSARY. HE WILL ASK YOU OUT 
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. PLEASE CALL 283·3<154 OR DROP BY RESUMES. 272-1827. 140 KEENAN ON YOUR NEXT KLEPTO· JOG EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5 30 
LOST at RAFFERTY'S Thursday night· A AIR BAND CONTEST! SIQn-ups 1n dark btue and brown reversible down win· LaFortune on Tue and Wed 6.00·8 00 ter coat. If you have it. call 8938 for CASH PRIZES !!I but, $3 fee per band. reward 
AIR II FOUND BASKETBALL AT STEPAN COURTSAT7150N THURS4'o12CALL GOMARIPAT 12150R 1148TO IDENTIFY 
BEAT NICOTINE FOUND .One gold bracelet 1n front of the Smte Museum Call 6922 and g1ve 

descnphon. Later BEAT NICOTINE LOST BASKETBALL LOST AT STEPAN COURTS ON SAT AFTERNOON AIRII AIR!! AIR'! AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII 
GO CHRIS 

DURING GIRLS BOOKSTORE GAME AlAI! AIR!I AIRII AIR!' AlAI! AIRII AlAI! 
NEAR COURT 7 NAME IS ON THE AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII 
BALL IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL BEN 
AT8797AIR II 

LOST ALL INTELLIGENCE AND THESES, TERM PAPERS. ETC CALL EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME SANITY HOW COULD I MAKE SUCH 
AN ASSININE ALCOHOL POLICY? IF ANYONE CAN FIND EITHER OF THESE PHONE BOOKS EXTRA PHONEBOOKS 
MRS COKER. 233-7009. 
MISSING PROPERTIES OR IF ANYONE AT OBUD DESK IN LAFORTUNE A 
CAN FIND ANYTHING OF ANY VALUE GREAT MEMORANDUM OF 83·84· 
THAT I COULD USE. PLEASE CALL ME. 
FR BEAUCHAMP. AT 5690 OR 5779. 

FREE TO ALL 
LOST/FOUND I L-1_FO_R_R_EN_T_.J 
WANTED FEMALE ROOMMATE SUM· LOST Set of keys I love l1eld Hockey· MER SESSION nice house good neigh· key r1ng. lost Fnday afternoon Maybe borhood Fum•shed except for your around Mornsey II lind. please call 8118 bedroom 1 1 4 m1le from campus $140 and ask for Margaret Mo & to2 of utilities. Call Coleen aHer 7:00 
234-9970 NOW THAT WINTER IS OVER. WILL THE PERSON WHO SWITCHED BLUE DOWN COATS WITH ME LAST JANUARY AT SENIOR BAR PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL NO QUESTIONS 
WANTED 

ASKED YOU KNOW WHO I AM. MY NAME IS IN THERE 


PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A Lost Keys Between Stepan Courts and PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL library Please call3125 AUGUST 11 ANY SUGGESTIONS OR 
OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239· LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 53130R277-485t 4B, GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC· HOT RADIO OPPORTUNITY FOR AG­TANGLE) MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN· GRESSIVE GRAD. LOOKING FOR TAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO SALES AND PROMOTIONAL ABILITY. FATHER IN 1944) KEEP CHAIN BUT NEED OWN CAR AND PERSISTANCE. PLEASE RETURN MEDAL CALL PAUL REPLY TO BOX 8422, SB, 48660. 272 0746 OR ANN-MARIE 284 5087 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559 ­LOST SEIKO watch MQnd~Y 1n Hayes· $50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call Healy Please call 1955 Thanks 1-805-687-6000, Ext. R·9834. 
Permanent Part-time Help Wanted. Ap­plications now be1ng taken. No phone calls please Pandoras Books 937 South Bend Ave. 
TICKETS 
I need 4 grad tix 1n a big way Call Larry 1638 
$$$ AND HOTEL RES. TRADE FOR 1 GRAD. TIX. STEVE 277·6055 
Summer Olympic tiCkets· call Anna Marie at 1335. 
NEED Commencement Tlckelsf Willing to pay a reasonable price. Call Terry at 8764 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 or 277-4851. 
RIDES 
NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON FOR EAS­TER. CALL STEVE AT 8105 
TEXAS BOUND? I m gonna be head1ng to Houston on the Monday after gradua­tion (May 21) and I need a nder. The car·s not huge (a Honda). so plan to leave your baby grand piano here. Also. chain smokers need not apply. Call Mark at 8765. 
Naperville! Naperville! Can anyone take me there on Thursday 4'.19 post12:00? Call Molly at 6980. 
ROOMATE NEEDED NEXT YEAR SEAN 277-1405 
WASHINGTON.D.C. Need nde-w1ll share usual. Bnan 1139 
Got room for TWO RIDERS east on 1·80 to TOLEDO for break? call JIM 8674· 72 
HELP! I need an apt. for the summer. Call D1ane 283-4320 
NEED RIDER TO N.NJ CALL KEVIN 277-6250 
I need a r1de to Indiana U for Easter Break. Call Tom at t678 
WANTED· TOURING 'loRACING BIKE AND PANIERS IN GOOD CONDITION. WILLING TO PAY FOR QUALITY EQUIPMENT.CALL COLETIE AT 232­6050. 
NEED RIDE TO Ct.Hartlord for Easter Please Call PAT 8423 

PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM U.S. 31 N , ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 

Tired of going to bed alone? Tired of going Teas, to bed alone? Tired of going to bed alone? I'm sorry to see that you were so upset An Tostal Tuck-ins. Signups in thf.'!ining after the news Monday night. I guess 
halls today. you'll 1ust have to go w1thout next year' We'll make up for rt this weekend in Syrl 
Daisies! Daisies! Daisies! 

ANTOSTAL THURSDAY, SCREAM 'TIL Buy a bunch... $1.50 In the dining hall 
YOU CAN'T TAKE IT NO MOREll Tuesday and Wednesday at dinner. 
CAMPUS SCREAM RETURNS TO NO Delivered on Thirsty Thursday. NEXT THURS., AT MIDNIGHT. GET READY TO VOICE YOUR OPINIONS (LOUDLY)IIt P.S. BEAUCHAMP FOR UMOC SPONSORED BY THE 
An Tostal is coming! 
An Tostalls coming! 

PEOPLE'S ANTOSTAL COMMITTEE 
Q: WHAT DO YOU CALL IT WHEN 5 CE'S GET TOGETHER? A BORING. Dan. Sr. Formal was very special. All 4 Q:AND WHAT DO YOU CALL IT WHEN were indeed surprises. Thanks Hon . for 
TEN OR MORE CE'S GET TOGETHER? everything! w. love. Meghan A TIME TO PICK UP THE UNEMPLOY­MENT CHECKS. Need riders to northern New Jersey 
leaving early Thursday morning. Please for more spills and thrills than an oft­call Ted at 1779 campus party, watch the UlTIMATE FRISBEE FINALS after bookstore f1nals RETURNING STUDENTS 
PREPARE FOR THIS SUMMER AND Happy 21st Birthday to Greg Sandi--a NEXT YEAR great friend & a super roommate I -Joe Buy a Quality used car for less than $175 
GET THE MONEY TOGETHER YOUR· PITI CLUB BUS SEATS STILL SELF. OR GET YOUR FRIENDS TO AVAILABLE CALL PAT 1694. PITCH 
IN TEN BUCKS APIECE. AND SHARE TIRED OF TAKING A CLASS FOR 0 This 69 Mercury runs great. Insure Cheap CREDITS? BLAME PETROl! ..and Transportation VOTE SHARON PETRO FOR UMOC!!! OFF CAMPUS She· s gross. Next Year 
CALL 283-1866 FOR INFO.. AND A B-I LOVE... I LOVE EXTENDED TEST DRIVE WEEKENDS E INSURE FUN FOR NEXT YEAR Don'tgo DRY... 
Zarfs 

.......~? ...'?.~~~~·.·. 
Days Inn II 

WHY LAMENT THE LOSS OF BOOZE? Muffy and Tnpp-The Preppy Twins! 
THE BARD REMAINS. HELP Yeah, Mana·s date is a real d I Zeke. 
CELEBRATE HIS BIRTHDAY BY Nerdwoman. Meow, Meowr Otto-grahs 
READING IN THE SHAKESPEARE Where·s the P(. . . )? Sex tape. Tt1at's so 
READING MARATHON ON 4'o24 rood! Carolyn, you're siHing on my rose! 
THROUGH 4'o29. FOR MORE INFO Keenan Tumbler, Yah I Kevin has purple 
CALL SUSIE AT 3821, JOHN GUIDO AT feathers in his teeth. Jete veux. The twins 
239-7735 OR OMBUD AT 6283. THIS do Azars. Carolyn does Azars aga1n. And 
PARTY IS STILL ON. 
again. Only four lo the room, please. Mass exodus. Carolyn, don·t empty the 

I Need ;us! 1 GRADUATION TIC· MIKE two yellow cups. 
277-3242 
Prepare, the saga continues. Days Inn Ill, coming soon to a motel near you/! 

FRESHMEN-A new freshmen booklet is com1ng, & WE NEED HELP! We MUST$$$$$$Beat the rush!! Sell your used get MANY short stories about ND life bylex1book now!! Book buying hours Mon­Apr. 27. Should tell ol memorable ex­Thur 1-4pm only. Pandora Books 937 perience, or a problem (coping with ...)South Bend Ave. 
and how you dealt with it. Must have en· couragement 4 new students. PLEASEJUNIORS, JUNIORS: Learn How to Fill HELP! Campus mail· Mike Maclennan.
Out the Placement Prollle Form. Wed., 
433 Keenan (3387). 
April 18.7 p.m., 124 Hayes-Healy. Kitty Arnold, Career and Placement Services. 

CAMELOTIII CAMELOTII! CAMELOTII!
Summer Olympic tickets lor sale· call An· na Marie at1335 

Get your tickets now lor the biggest YES, LADIES, THERE IS A GOD II production In the history of the NO Stu-
A young man of lhe opposite persuasion dent PlayersI On sale now at the S.U. has reached that magical age and will be Record Store, the Olaughlin Box Office celebrating_Easter In special tashio~.!!Ji.s ,.and.the!M'Century Center box office. year. Yes 'Wiax Szllvaa will bl! tri/1'11~ "! 1I1dLV 
E S d (ho CAMELOT! 
on aster un ay w lilting). Give this TICKETS ARE GOING FASTII young Helvie Hungarian your best 
wishes. 

The Zaria and ZarleHes all want to wish Marla, also known as BOG, a: FRISBEE GOLF: Comlpg soon to HAPPY BIRTHDAY .. -,·,·~,,. ~. -1!-...'I.~.--. , • , o., WlV\N(I.In l ~. ·, ·,, ·, , ·, ,
campus near you. · ' · p -...... ..., "\."-••• • •• " .. ,....... .._.....~., #.. ,.,., , , , , , , • V rr-t"Utu:O VN n.J · • • · • • 
AS STUDENTS OF NOTRE DAME WE FEEL THAT THE UNIVERSITY HAS NOT GONE FAR ENOUGH WITH THE NEW ALCOHOL POLICY. THEREFORE. WE FEEL THAT FR. BEAUCHUM AND COMPANY SHOULD INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING ADDITIONS IN 0 DER TO PREVENT STUDENTS OM MORAL ABUSE. 1. NO STU ENT SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO AVE MORE THAN FOUR FRIENDS D lNG A SEMESTER. THIS COULD LEA 0 A SOCIAL ATMOSPHERE. 2. NO IRLS WILL BE ALLOWED AT HALL SYRS SINCE THIS MIGHT LEAD TO INTER­SEXUAL RELATIONS. THE SEMI· FORMALS . WILL STILL BE APPROPRIATELY CALLED SCREW YOUR ROOMMATE... 3.THERE SHOULD BE NO MORE GLASSES ALLOWED IN THE DINING HALL OR IN ONE'S ROOM. THIS WHOLE GLASS BUSINESS LEADS TO ALCOHOL ABUSE SO WE'VE GOT TO ELIMINATE IT. 4.SLEEPING SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED ON CAMPUS SINCE IT COULD LEAD TO EROTIC FAN­TASIES CONCERNING THE OPPOSITE SEX. 
6 JOE BARS. VARSITY FOOTBALL PLAYER. WILL HAVE TO LEAVE CAMPUS SINCE x· BARS ARE ALLOWED ON CAMPUS' 7. PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN SINGLES WILL HAVE TO LEAVE THEIR ROOMS WHEN A MAID ENTERS THIS COULD LEAD TO NUMEROUS VIOLATIONS INCLUDING RULES 1 AND 4. NINTH FLOOR FLAN· NERHALL 
SEX · THE ALTERNATI VE TO AL· COHOL 
BIRD LARKIN IS NOW 21 YEARS OLD COME SEE WHY THE ADMINISTRA· TION HAS A NEW ALCOHOL POLICY. GIVE HIM A KISS TOO I 
TVA...at lastlllove you. 
HOW'S YOUR GERRY FAUST. RICH UTILE, DAVE LEDERMAN? BETIER PRACTICE UP. THE AN TOSTAL IM· PERSONATION CONTEST IS COMING SOON CONTACT YOUR HALL REP IF INTERESTED 
Is it morally nght for the editor of a quarter· ly magazine to only put out three issues? 
1981 PRESIDENT REAGAN. 1982 PRIME MINISTER TRUDEAU. 1983 CARDINAL BERNARDIN, 1984 LORET RUPPE. 1985 SONNY BONO? MR. 
T?. 
HEY TAG THANKS FOR COMING BUDDY. UNBELIEVABLE! DEFINITELY THE BALLSY MOVE (ITS COOL) LOOKING FORWARD TO THIS SUM· MER AT UP C. LOVE HIGGS 
COLLEEN·s NOT ONLY THE BEST THING OUT OF NEW YORK SHE S HOT. FAST. EXPERIENCED IM· MORAL. ON TOP OF THINGS AND SHES UP FOR ANYTHING 
To whom can I speak today? I am heavy-laden ~ilh trouble , , TJ!(OVg/IJBo(!tQffln.'lltlmlltfJ f,rlvn.d.
" , , ~ , ~ , , ,. , , • ,. .. , , .l • : ,• • • • '" .. • • • • • a • • • • t .,...~ .: • 

The Observer Wednesday, April 18, 1984 -page 9 
Has good showing 
Track team travels to Knoxville 
season. According to Piane, the two­day event at Tom Black Track was. satisfactory. "We ran well on Friday," he noted. "I was somewhat pleased. We were fair on Saturday." 
The coach points to James Patter­son as one of the top performers. Patterson broke the Notre Dame record in the triple jump with a 50· foot, 2-inch total which shattered , the former Irish outdoor mark of4 7­7 and one-half inch set by Mike McMannon in 1971. That score, however, failed to put the standout jumper into the finals. 
In the 3,000-meter steeple chase, Senior distance runner Ed Juba was leading until he slammed into one of the barriers and took a spill. He got right back on his feet, however, and managed a second-place finish.Juba churned in a 9:11.12 clocking, and he was only three seconds off the winning time. 
Dan Shannon ran a 46.6-second 
relay split in the 400-meter portion 
of the sprint-medley, helping the 
Irish take sixth in the event. 
FreshmanjeffVan Wie did well in 
the 800-meters (I:52.5 ), and Jim 
Tyler placed in the 1500-meters 
( 3:57). 
While the above members of the 
track team were in Knoxville, a 
handful oflrish trackmen traveled to 
the Northwestern Invitational. At 
that meet, Mike Brennan turned in a 
personal best of 14.8 in the 110­
meter high hurdles to place second. 
Tom Warth ran the 5,000-meters in 
14.40 for a personal record. In the pole vault, John Langdon took third. 
"He looked better than he ever 
had," assistant coach Ed Kelly said. 
The Notre Dame track team takes 
to the road again this weekend, 
heading south for the Indiana Inter­
collegiate Meet in Indianapolis. 


Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 

In the other overtime game, Human Athlete and Four Guys Who . Can Play Basketball proved that, indeed, they can play basketball, as 
'they downed Yank My Doodle, It's a Dandy, 22-20. The shooting ofthese teams was hindered a bit by the weather, and the winners got away with 22-of-69 shooting to beat Yank My Doodle, It's a Dandy, which shot 20'-of-70. 
Another close game was the 21-19 victory ofGeritol Express over Cap­tain Larry and His Motley Crew. Gil Loescher hit 8 of I 7 shots to lead Geritol Express, while Rob Treuting made 8-of-19 for the losing team. 
Vacuum Effect knocked off Win· dex Gang, 21-18, thanks to the shooting ofRobert Zielinski ( IO·for­
17) and Gary Jbara (7-for-14), and Red Red Wine fell to Windy City Five, 21-18, as John Stein recorded 11 baskets on 22 attempts. 
The "We Can Shoot -Really" Award for yesterday goes to Ed Smierciak and Four Other Guys that are Better than John Paxson. The team -at whichJohn Paxson would laugh right now -made only 21 of its 103 shots in beating CRAMM!!, 21·15. Bob Michels was the king of the brick layers in that game, throw­ing up 27 rocks to score only four points. 
Some individuals shot a little bit better than Michels in yesterday's games. Rich Amberg shot 11-for-16 to lead Now or Never past Wheels and the Four Spokes, 21-14, and Rob Wiere shot 11-for-19 for The Shootist, which beat Five Buzzards Circling Rose Kennedy, 21-13. Also in double figures was Joe Kos· tolansky, who hit 10 of 1 7 shots as his team, Father B and the Beer Bongs, downed Los Malandros, 21­
18. Mark Trautmann made I 2 of 21 
shots for the losers in that game. Pete Graham of The Modern Lovers stole the "Best Lover's" crown from teammate Jack McLaughlin by making 10 of 18 shots. McLaughlin hit seven ofhis 15 attempts, as The Modern Lovers eliminated Hitler Youth, 21-12. 
Former varsity player Cecil Ruck­er just missed double figures, hitting 9 of 14 shots for his team, Corby's Three Reverends of Jesse Jackson and Two Guys to Attract the White Vote. Snowbunny and His Receding Hareline was the losing team in that one, 21-7. 
Today is the second -and last ­day of the third round, and exciting games are scheduled for the entire afternoon. It appears that the best place to be before dinner is on South Quad, and then you might want to wander over to Stepan for the later games. 
Bleeding Ax Wounds II will start offthe afternoon on Bookstore 9 at 4 
p.m. against Five Pool Hustlers From New Bedford. Mass. 
Following that game, the Bookstore fan can chose between Bookstore and Lyons for 4:45 p.m. action. On Bookstore 10 at that time. Padres face Sick Individuals. while Return of Pigbag meets A Black, a Jew. a Cripple, and Two Women on Lyons II. 
At 6:15 p.m., the largest crowd probably will be at Stepan 1, where Gerry Faust and the Old Men on the Block meet Kennedy and Company. This is the first third-round ap­pearance ever for Faust's team. 
Also.at 6:15p.m., Encore takes on Scratch Twice and the Three Itches on Stepan 2, and Tequila White Lightning IV goes up against Cleveland on Stepan 5. 
If you are determined to spend the entire afternoon on South Quad, you may want to check out the 6:1 5 
p.m. game on Bookstore 9. That one pits Rousseau's Noble Savages against Oink Oink and the Collect Callers Minus Small Sow and "G." Rumor has it that Rousseau's Noble Savages has picked up former Irish quarterback Blair Kiel to replace the injured Ed Roohan. 

By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track team packed its bags and headed south to the Dogwood Relays in Knoxville, Tenn., over the past weekend and turned in respectable results at the meet, which included more than 2,000 athletes from across the country. "It was probably the biggest meet of the year for us," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "It was a terrific meet. No doubt about it. The quality of the meet was unbelievable." 
It was the team's third straight non-scoring meet of the outdoor 
St. George's University School of Medicine Grenada, West Indies 

VM TlJt:l '3VIIM I UV1 vi I AH dt1, l',,u,... 
ST. GEORGE's takes pride in announcing its eligibility for the 
GUARANTEED STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM 
Sponsored by The United States Dept. of Education 
Educational Commission For 
Foreign Medical Graduates 

Exam Results· 
...for U.S. Citizens passing ECFMG in medicine from all schools in English speaking countries with 5 or 
more exams taken 
SCHOOL & COUNTRY 0 
St. George's University. Grenada Royal Coli. of Surg.. Ireland Untv. of the Phrlrpprnes. Phrlrpprnes Kasturba Med. Coil.. lndra Cebu lnstrtute of Medrcrne. Phrlrpprnes Unrv. of the East. Phrlrpprnes Lyceum Northwestern. Philrpprnes Far Eastern Unrversrty. Phrlrpprnes Unrv of Santo Tomas. Phrlrppines Amerrcan U. of the Caribbean. Montserrat Perpetual Help Coil. of Laguna. Philippines Ross Unrversrty. Oomrnrca Untv. of the West Indies. Jamaica St. Lours Unrversrty. Phrlrpprnes Southwestern Unrversrty. Phrlrpprnes Virgen Mrlagrosa lnst. of Med.. Phrlrpprnes Manrla Central Unrversrty. Phrlrppines Sarnt Luera Health Scrences Untv.. St. Luera 


16% 13% 

%PASSING 
47% 44% 44% 
43% 42% 41% 40% 
39% 33% 33% 
32% 
_f9% 
60% 
80% 75% 75% 

St. George's University  United States and Canadian citizens may direct  St. George's University  
School of Medicine  inquiries to The North American correspondent:  Is proud to be ranked  
Attn: C.\I. RAO, Ph.D.  Foreign Medical School Services Corp.  NUMBER 1  
Grenada, West Indies  One East Main Street  for the second year  
Bay Shore, New York 11706  lnarowl  
(516J665-8500  


The Observer Wednesday, April18, 1984-page 10 
Third-round action continues. • • 
Boolutore Tournament 
Ycstcrday'11 RcsuiL<~ 
Sl~pan I 

Spurr in' !-.p;arans over The (llll & Injured, .Z2-20 
Anypl<ll"t', Anytimc over Rho Housc: by •I 
Tt:.m I :\6 ovr-r The Sncakcrgalc Sneaks by 1. 
t-·un Bunt:h ~over Law St:hool by ll 
Shorl ()n lldght over Tom'~ Tuol Monsters by 9 
Sl~pan Z 

H1g Swahili!! over "Whcrt-'s lhc: Hcc:f' & lhc 4 Meal 
MonMCni hy I .i 
Spud & Ihe 4 Scud-. ovcr l>csllny Without a Cause hy 
IU 
Fr n. & rhc: Beer BoOM-'i over los Malandro!<> by 3 
Tom WhHc & -t Other <.aut:OL'ilans over Sweet Swis­
hers hy "':"' 
RaMin' Cajun~ over D;~.rth & rhc.· LiKht Saber~ by 3 
Sl~pan 3 

Shysters ovt'r TOlkc II To the llolc by H 
John 3: 16 uver 8.a.lth..· Avenue by 7 
Hoop t>a Doop over ~ Guy"' Who llrinate In rhc 
Sho\\1..'r by 5 
Corby's :\ Ren. ofje5.-.c:jat:bon . ovcrSnuwbunny 
& Ui.!o Rc.·~..·c.·cJinK by 14 
Urh:k Throwc" over God's Own Drunks II b}' 1 3 
Sl~pan 4 

·Duffy'!\ Alamo J ~0 BaUtKm Cluh nvC'r I Jew & rhe 4 
Skln.!t by 1:\ 
Va<:uum t-:lfc..:t over Windex Gang by 3 
Tht" Modern l.oven over Uiller Youth by 9 
Na.'ity, N~ty over \l'altcr'"' Boy.!t by 2 
Stark Naked & the " Prurrusiun.s over Ncbo's Gianb 
hy .1 
Slepan 5 

Armctl & Dangl"ruus II ovC'r 4 Guys & Hc:rb by 13 
Somellnu:~ You ju.sr Got To Say over 4 White 
(iuys & An F:xtra Tendon by 6 Virtual llnknowns ovcr Dcnnls' Mena~.:cs On Dry Land hy H 
Sl~pan6 

Thr Klnw.tnm Come ovcr Petc.·'.!oo Ulind Sisters by c; Son~ of Thumlt'r VIII over 'S Guys Thai Can't Shoot Whc.·n They're W.L"'It"d hy 'S <•c.·ritol f.xprr'l!'o uver <..aptain l.o~rl")· & His Motky Cre" by}. 
Stepan 7 Now Or Nevn ovrr \\'hecl.!o & Ihe 4 ~pokes by ., Stt-pan 8 
1 jl\·10 '\hc U I -'t \\ e He 8u~1rd over Dribhling DYXZ. 
ll·l<l 
8ookstorc9 

"Wiwrr'sthe Quecf' uver Oust b)' 16 
~howl Ime.· over A Short fill {;uy by I 0 
Windy Clry 'S over Red Red Wine by:\ 
Book.'ltorc 10 

Doyle'~ Clemtnl over Dirty Ba.rc.:llp by 13 
<.ubiyao? over Chh.:k~ Dig Us by'; 
In the.· Crowd over Bungholt"'s by Z 
Lyonsll I>y"(X'"unla over Tom Vcblln .Stoncd by I 3 
f.d Simerdak & 4 Other Guys That Arc CRAMM!! by6 Human Athlete &. 4 Other Guys Who Can Play . over Yank My Doodle . 22-20 
Lyom JZ Mac.:rl's llrll over F.A.Q. by 14 ~ (iuys Named Moc over Performers by 9 The Shc.HJtist over~ Buzzards Circ.:Ung Ro~e Kennedy 
by H 
Today's Games 
SI~J 

6: I~ -Old Men On the Block v. Kennedy &. Co. 
7:00 
-IS (juys Who Couldn't Think Ofa Real Name 

v. 
llooslcrs Sl~pan Z 


6: I~ -f.m:ore v. Sc.:ratch Twic.:c & the 3 llches 
7:00 -SlrapamaM.jucon the Combat Wombats v. Jimmy G. & the Spots Sl~pan 3 
6:1~-We C:anShool, Hut We Need Her To Score v. Foo-foo the Snou 
7:00 -John Murphy's Slime Train V v. What II b Sl~pan 4 
6: I ilj -Over tht· Umil v Naugle.!-. Memorial 
"':00 -Curhy Tooter!t v Dunkin' Dub~ Sl~pan 5 
6.1 'S -Tt·quil;a \\"hue 1.1Khmmg IV v. Clc.-vc:land 
Sl~pan6 

6: I ilj -Tht· Poison Ivy Award Winner~ v b1ger lkavc:r Clc.•avc.·r"~ 
Casual Comfort From 4$» loo\ 
~ 
ONLY 
$7.50 

Available in: Leather or leather/canvas combination Sizes 5-10 (Even sizes only, size 9 
available in leather/canvas combi­nation only) 
Goodwill Plaza Eddy and Howard Sts. (Across from Nickies) 
Mon-Thurs 9-7 Fri 9-8 Sat 9-6 · ·-·.·-·-" 
Sl~pan 7 
6: I ilj -We'd Ralher IJc Playing Golf v: Junior Wub­ba.' 
S1~pan8 
6: I ilj -White Ducks t>un't Wear Tics & An Eskimo 
v. Spoothound<~ IV 8ookstorc9 
4:00 -'5 Pool Uustlers From New Bedford, Mas!>. v. Hkeding Axe Wound~ II 
4:4'S -Givc Us Mucho ChO<.:ha v. 4 Jc.·rk!> & a Drib­blcriV 
6: I ilj -Oink Oink & tht: <.ollt'ct Callers. . v. Rous­
seau's Noblc Savagc.·s Rookstor~ I 0 
4:00 -Congratulations Phil & Ailsa v. Casper the Friendly Coach 
4:415 -Skk Individual~ v. Padrt:s 
6: I'S -Carminc Marro H;~.s a Fever v. Nutmeggcrs VIII 
Lyons 11 4:00-4 Ciringos & aSpic v. Ryrhm Mt:thod Bahks 4:41S -A Black, A Jew, A Cripple & 2 Women v 
R(.·turn of Pighag 
6: I~ -Grizzly Bear!l On Acid v. Armadillo 5 Lyons 12 
4:00 -Motown v Ouna Here 
4:415 -SONF v. "e Might Not Get Many Poinls But We Score A Lol Anywa)' 
6: I~ -Tim jacob & 4 (iuy~ Who Arc Just WBBS On Ihe Air Again 
Wom~n·s Bookstore Toumamcnt 
Today's Games Stepan 1 4:00-The Athlcti<..· Annex v.just So We Can Say We Did It 
Stepan 2 4:00-4 Assets & I J.iability v. We Still Don't Kneel ~or Anybody Stepan 3 ·HH)-BAI;AS v. <.irde jerk <.att:her~ Slepan4 
4:00 --i Average Womt.·n of ND v. Farley Women Take Top 
Stepan 5 
4:00 -l.ife in 1he Fil~t lane: Chapter 7 v. Dic.:k But­ton'~(iirls 
Stt-pan 6 4:00-I.eMom!'< Ughrweighb v. Lei's Makc.· a Pass Stepan 7 4:00-The 1-"nul-up~ v. Oh, Thai's a Good Name 
Sl~pan 8 
4:00 -Enrrupy Srrike.!oo Bat:k v. The Prt:lenders 


THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA &PUB 
"BRUNO~" 

THIS WEDNESDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16" pizza 
with I topping for only $6.95 Each additional topping $1.00 extra 
Order l--$1 offtotal price 
Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotal price  
Mon -.Tburs 4..JOPM  Fri-Sat Unti112 am 277-4519  277-4519 Open Sunday 4-10 pm  


~--~fEREMIAtf~iSr' l 



l SWEENEY l 
t t 
l HAPPY l 
t t 

l HOUR l 
t t 
t Early Happy Hlour: 4:00-7:00pm Mon-Fri t f and also featuring... t 
• t 
t Late Night Happy Hour t t 1Opm -Close Monday thru Thursday t : 11pm -CIQ'-t},.ftitliW and Saturday l 
l l
Free Munchies 
·t\~\:"~•.-'0_.' A•· • .:.:, -. ' f ....... "'\.....'~"(.' ..,,,,, '-"& .........,,,.._ ~-·. 4k ,•\•..• ... 41. ':'.•.•.,• Ill ··"~'\4-··~a.· ~ ••~~ .....-._-..,,.,'to ......~~ ............... ~. '-'t'.J.~ • 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
Record now 5-3 

Lacrosse team wins home opener 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Cartier Field was definitely "home, sweet home" for the Notre Dame lacrosse team this past weekend as the Irish won their home opener over Wooster, 11-6, af­ter spending the first four weeks of the season on the road. 
"It was great to be home," said jus­tin Shay, one of the team's defensive standouts. "The fan support really helped a lot and we wanted to put on a good show for them. I think we did." 
It was an outstanding first quarter which allowed Rich O'Leary's team to notch the important Midwest Lacrosse Association victory. Exploding for five goals in the quar­ter while holding Wooster scoreless, the Irish were able to build up a lead that the Fighting Scots could never erase. 
"We played real well in the begin­ning ofthe game," said O'Leary, who watched his squad improve its record to 5-3 heading into today's game at Wittenberg College. "We did have a little let-up in the middle two quarters, but we played well at the end." 
A ten-minute stretch in the opening quarter was enough to keep Wooster out of striking distance, as the Irish totally dominated the tempo of the game. Supplying con­stant pressure on the Wooster goal, they outshot the Scots, 19-6, 

outscoring the visitors, 5-0, in the 
process. 

Tri-captain Steve Pearsall got the 
Irish offense rolling with a goal less 
than four minutes into the game. 
Four-and-a-half minutes later, Pear­
sall took a Joe Franklin pass in the 
middle of the Wooster defense and 
fired a shot into the net to make it 
2-0. 

The Notre Dame scoring had just 
started, too, as leading scorer Bob 
Trocchi got into the act with two 
goals less than a minute apart, the 
last a fastbreak goal on a feed from 
Pearsall. Franklin added the final 
goal of the quarter and the Irish had 
what proved to be an insur­
mountable lead. 

"The key to the game was getting the early lead and not letting them get closer than two the rest of the game," said O'Leary. 
Wooster finally got on the scoreboard early in the second period, breaking the Notre Dame streak of five consecutive shutout quarters (including four in last Wed­nesday's I 5-0 shutout of Mt. linion). However, Tom Grote answered for the Irish with the first of his three goals to keep the lead at five. 
The momentum that the Irish had built up in the first quarter shifted to Wooster after Grote's goal, though, as the Scots scored three un­answered goals to cut the gap to 6-4 late in the half. 
A key penalty against Wooster allowed the Irish to keep the visitors 
BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
LIVE CLASSES 
• 
TEST-N-TAPE® LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET 


Special 4 Week Program For Sept. 29 LSAT CALL FOR DETAILS 
··~·
. 
··~ 

~~~.-H. Ca!l~?~~:~;;ekends 
. ;lfiiPIJIN 
1717 E. South Bend Ave EDUCATIONAL 
CENTER 
TEST PR 


from getting any doser,though. In fact, two Wooster players wen: in the penalty box when Trocchi scored on a pass from Grote to make the score 7-4 at intermission. 
When the teams came back out on 
the field for the third quartl·r, it was 
appart:nt that Wooster still had the 
momentum. The Scots dominated 
the quarter, outshooting the Irish, 
18-3, and were picking up many of 
the loose balls. Still, Notre Dame was 
able to hold off the Wooster rally 
and keep its three-goal lead thanks 
to two crucial goals by Grote. 
After failing to catch the Irish in the third quarter, Wooster could put nothing together in the final quarter. Notre Dame's zone defense proved to be very effective, as it held the Scot offense scoreless in the quarter. Meanwhile, the Irish offense was able to score twice to put the game well out of reach. 
Once again, the Notre Dame defensive eftiJrt was very im­pressive. A new zone defense has been very effective lately, as the Irish have held nearly every op­ponent this season to less than ten goals something it has had problems doing in past years. 
"The zone makes it harder for the offense to penetrate our defense," explains Shay. "It also slows the game down a lot, which is good for us because our transition game is not one ofour strong points. And it's also a good defense to fall into when you're ahead." 
•"j 
-~·· 

T0 day___________________w_e_dn_e_sd_a_y_,-Ap_r_n_1_s_,_19_8_4_-_P_a_ge-11 
Bloom Connty 
ANI? HERE: SITS (}(}f< CANI?ffM£, WOF<KIN& 1.-f!WI?./01/SL.Y ON 1H6 
5ffUH fOR WffY(f?IJW'S CAI/CIJfJ.. 
MAY~ H£ CAI'I SPA!<£ Aft'fJM£/Ir 1V TW.. 1/5 HIS Ab£ ~· 

Mellish 

Guindon 
~­
.. 
IJ 
0 
2 

FIVe? NO NO,., OVR f?£CORf75 SHOW THIIT YOU'f(e ACTIJAIJ_Y '11 
I CHflN(:Jf.V IT. FAMI~Y JOKe.. 

Richard Guindon 
1.-tf I'Je. 
00 liiA.f .ltlfI .lbii.IN! 
---r 

Boy, that Dick Clartt .. isn't he something? This is Cartoon Bloopers. 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS  33 Saw  60 To shelter  12 Mild oath  
1 La Douce  34 Expression  61  -Trueheart  13 Retreats  
5 Meat cuts 10 Copied 14 Typeof beer 15 Fencer's ploy 16 Zoo appur­ of surprise 35 Small bird 39 Explosive 40 Likesome land 41 Seine feeder  62 Over 63 School unit DOWN Former Peruvian  18 Sharpen 19 Suit locale 23 Spencer of films 24 Latvian capital  
tenance 17 Unsystem· atic 20 Pub  42 Aves. 43 City on the Oka  2 Actual 3 Chess  25 Shocks 26 Go-between  
21 City on  44 Fixed hair  danger  27 Irish poet  
the Aire  46 Sally­ 4 Document  28 Pastoral  
22 Place for racers 23 Stepped 25 Non-varsity player 28 Rainbow goddess  (bread) 47 Camel feature 48 Shoulder activity 51 Of armorial insignia  repository 5 Former actor Rains 6 Tart 7 Fable opener 8 Palmer's  poem 29 A European in India 30 "-Foolish Things" 31 Ventured 33 Ethan or Steve  
55 Rest for  org.  36 However  
awhile  9 Bridge  37 Glacial  
29 Yardstick:  58 Plane  reverse  snow  
abbr.  surface  10 Pined  38 "The­ 
32 Molding  59 Beat  11 Tempo  Angler"  

TIE PRESS MAY &f'IG YOIJ A /JfT OF II HAKP 1/h'E A60VT1HI!1. 

GEEL MADMAN! DON'T YOU KNOW TIIAf'S TJI!If SEE/NC 6dP TKVE.., 
ON T.V. IS /itSO,fo11( NOTHIN~ LJI(t. elliSHI/NT 5ftiN~ 111M Q/1 FROM 
STMi£7 WAUHIN6 
' '








t(v· ~ 
The Far Side 

GaryLarson 
7p.m. 

7:30p.m. 
Sp.m. 

8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 

9:30p.m. 
lOp.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
"The white whale! The whiiiiiiite wh ... No, no ... 
My mistake! ... A black whale! A regular blaaaaaack whale!" 
44 Reined 50 Map lines:' 45 Sharif of abbr. films 51 Retained 46 Painter 52 Hill's Van Leyden companion 53 Caesar's road 47 Frankfurt's 54 Col. course region 48 Getoutof 56 Reveal, to here! Rossetti 49 Tortoise 57 Religious opponent sister 
Tuesday's Solution 


~
" . ' . ' ... ~ .... ' .

. . .-:•--,._ "'•--,., ...... "'• ' ~ ... 
• • • ' ,.' *.. j 4 f ~ • I~ of'"./."
0 0 ••• ' •• , • , .... ' > ~ • ) • f •• , " • ' • 
Berke Breathed 

Campus
fff./£, 1H£N l£T1HHWJRP 
SHOW 1HAT FIVe IS 1H6 
AGe FOR MISTER OPVS . 

•12:15 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Lymphocytic Ontogeny," Dr. Jose Quintans, Gal­vin Life Sciences Audtorium 

•3 
p.m.-Tennis, NO Men vs. Purdue, Courtney Courts, 

•3:30 
p.m. -Softball, SMC vs Valparaiso, Angela Athletic Facility 

•4:20 
p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Thermonuclear War: Physical Effects and Preven­tion," Prof. Michael). Harrison, 118 NSH 


&Dave 



•5 p.m. -Lecture, "News From the Empire," Fer­
OH,HE'If/IE N, WA'I, 

nando Del Paso, 242 O'Shaughnessy
CAN fiX ¥Q/Jf. MELUSH... 

•7 p.m. -Film, "Open City," O'Shaughnessy Loft
E'lt~ fOI? I'VE: READ 

•7 p.m. -Discussion, "The Promise of Peace of
'lOIII A80VT 7H,fT 

the Risen Christ," Sacred Heart Crypt
ANI IT~ ID 
GlOSS!!
\ 

•7 p.m. -Workshop, "Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out the Placement Profile Form," Kitty Arnold, 124 Hayes Healy Center, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 
TV Tonight 
16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 16 Real People 22 One Day At A Time 28 Fall Guy 22 Mama Malone 16 Facts of Life 22 Wednesday Night Movie 28 Movie Special: ""Charles and Diana: A 
Royal Love Story 16 Night Court 16 St. Elsewhere 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Police Story/CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 4/18/84 
Wednesday Night BeerSpecial 
Bar Is Only 

D . .J. 
Open On Wed. Bill Davis This Week 
"PICTURE N.D." PHOTO CONTEST 
~ 
1st Prize: $60 of camera accessories and $20 cash *plus other prizes 
Deadline: May 4 Applications at OBUD desk, LaFortune 

~·
... 



S~orts 

Rebel, mw of Bookstore Basketball Xll/'s biggest other basketball addicts, however, braved the weather fans, u•filtc·hes a game on Stepan 4 yestt•rday t~ftemoon. to watch theirfavorite teams in m·tion. Phil Wolfgives The dog, ofcourse, had no choice but to U'all·h, since it a summary• ofyesterday's round-three action and a was chained to a sign next to the court. Hundreds of pretliew oftoday'sgames below. 
Bookstore XIII 
Round Three gets underway 

By PHIL WOLF 
v}()rts lf'riter 
Last WtTk Bookstor<.· Basketball XIII wa~ hlcsM·<.J with some very good weather. hut the teams that Mill remained after the second round paid the price yesterday. Eighty tt·ams withstood the snow and frn·zing rain to do hattie in Round Thr<.T. 
Some of the teams fdl victim to the weather. shooting poorly and 
throwing the hall away often, but most of the teams played on in the Bookstore tradition, refusing to even ackowledge the fact that they were freezing. 
One team that ignored the weather en route 10 an impressive victory was llB40 She B 13 We B Busted, which shot its way to a 22­20 victory over Dribbling Dyxz. 
Gerry Bradley made I I of his 23 shots to lead lJB40 She B 13 We B Busted 10 the win. Tht: team shot a total of 22-for-63 to overcome the 20-for-64 shooting of Dribbling Dyxz. 
Two other games went to overtime yesterday before finding a winner. Spurtin' Spartans emerged the winner over The Old and Injured, 22-20. In that game, it was Spurtin' Spartans' 22-of-49 shooting that made the difference, as The Old and Injured hit only 20 of ';8 shots. 
see BOOKSTORE, page 9 

Wednesday, April18, 1984-page 12 

Women's tennis team rolls to three victories 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 

While many students sat in their 
rooms lamenting the prospects of 
the new alcohol policy, there was a 
break in the gloomy day yesterday as 
the Notre Dame women's tennis 
team defeated Michigan State Uni­
versity, S-4, in the ACC. 

Last night's victory, which im­
proved Notre Dame's overall season 
record to 22-2, came after last 
weekend's successful roadtrip to 
Bowling Green, Ohio. 

"It wa<; a good win for us h<.·causc 
we never heat tht:m before," said 
Irish head coach Sharon Petro. 
"We're tired and we didn't play ao; 
well as we did over the weekend, 
hut it shows that ifwe keep our con­
trol, we can win." 

Freshman Joanne Biafore 
remained undefeated at the number 
six singles position this spring 
sea<;on, as she ca<;ily won both ofher 
s•~ts last night, 6-I ,6-2. 

Tlie victory over the Spartans is indicative ofthe improvemt:nt in the tt:nnis program and should generate enthusiasm in the team as the Irish head into the final weeks of their regular season. 
"They were solid, but I didn't think they were as solid a<; they wt:re la:st year," commented sophomore Susie Panther. "Wt:'rc a stronger team and we've got a better attitude and it shows improvement in our program." 
The Irish walked onto the court last night on an emotional high after they heat the University of Miami (Ohio), S-4, and BowlingGreen, 9-0, last weekend. "Miami was our ht·st win in eight years," said Petro. '"They 
an· an extremely tough team, but 
our doubles were awesome and we 
played excellent tennis." 
Miami is ranked in first -place in the Mid Amt:rica Congerence, and it is the toughest team the Irish have faced this season. The Irish' lost to Miami fj-1 last year, so this victory gives the Irish an emotional boost for tht· rest of the season. 
The victory over Miami indicates how tht·Irish will fare if they receive a hid to the Division II National Tournamt:nt in May. Earlier thb season, the Redskins defeatt·d the University of Tennesse, who arc last year's Division II National <ham· pions. 
Irish co-captain Lisa lal'ratta at number two singles and Panther at number one singles played well in Saturday morning's match against Miami, and Petro felt the teamwork exhibited by the doubles pairs was the best she had seen all year. 
"Lisa LaFratta played very well and that's what motivated me," said Panther. ''I'd look over and see that she was winning, and I knew it wasn't impossible to beat this team." 
Notre D·ame's 9-0 score in the mat<.·h against Bowling Green is deceiving, according to Panther. 
"Bowling Green had a lot of depth, and it was a good, solid win," explained Panther. "We didn't blow them offthe court." 
On Thursday the Irish play host to Moorhead Statellniversity, which is the only other Division II tt·am in the region. A victory over Moorhead State will make the Irish regional champions and will improve their chances for a bid to to National Championship. 


The 'Fever' is starting to run too high 
Some people like to call it "Bookstore Fever" -that 

basketball paranoia that sweeps the campus every April. 
It is this fever which drives people outside to the lighted basketball courts late on Friday night in an attempt to eS<.·ape the dreary social life. It is this fever which motivates over 2,SOO people -some in shape and some not -to participate in tht· annual Bookstore Bao;ketball Tourna­ment. 
Everyone has his reason to compete. Some want to have fun; some want to get some exercise; others want to show their awesome bao;kethall talent; and still others just want to say they played in the "World's Largest Basketball Tournament." Almost all, though, are frustrated jocks who want to get flowing again some ofthose competitive juices which have been dormant since high school. 
It's safe to say that Bookstore Bao;kcthall has, like its foun­

ders envisioned, become Notre Dame's third major sport. 
In the process of growing, however, Bookstore Basket­hall has developed some major problems. The fever that drives the tournament has been increasingdramatically for the pao;t 13 years to a point now where the fever is too high. The tournament bt·tter get some attention soon before the fever gets so great that it kills Bookstore Ba'iketball forever. 
You see, for too many people, the purpose of Bookstore Basketball hao; changed from fun to winning. Wht:n the tournamt·nt was founded, it was meant to provide a release for all the Notre Dame students who were bored with campus life. It seemed to be the perfect outlet for a sports­nazy student body that was cooped up insidt: during the miserable South Bend winters. 
I doubt that any of the Bookstore founders realized that they could he opening a Pandora's Box, hut that's what ha'i happened. 
Sure, there is still a vao;t majority of people who play Bookstore for the fun and exercise, but there is also a quickly-growing minority that is ruining the spirit of the tournament by taking a win-at-all-t·ostsattitude. 
!low many times have you seen someone on a fastbreak get mugged before he can get a shot off? How many times have you seen a team one point from a win get hacked every time it trit:s to put up a shot? How many times have you seen arguments over something as trivial as whether a basket support is inbounds or out ofbounds? 
It is hard to say where Bookstore Ilao;ketball went wrong, hut, somewhere along the line, advancing to later rounds began to mean too much. 
The pt·ople who have suffered are those people who are trying to play for the fun competition and exerci~. So far, 
Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 

not many ofthese people have gotten turned offenough to stop playing, but it could be only a matter of time. Bookstore Basketball is made for teams like the Esophagus Constrictors, who make the tournament fun for everyone, and Macri's, who use talent and teamwork to win games. 
Is there a solution to the problem, though? We are dealing with a student body that is very competitive ath­letically. Notre Dame students hate to lose. How can you get people who hate to lose to play a basketball game for fun, first, and competition, second? 
I don't think you can. What needs to he done, then, is to change the tournament itself. 
You run into somt: problems here too, however. You can't cut the number ofteams down because those people who are bad players -the kind ofpeople who play just for fun -will he the ones who are not "ft:verish" enough to wait in line for hours in ftrst-come, first-serve signups. 
You also can't cut down the crowds which can incitt: a player to want to win more. After all, playing in front of friends is what Bookstore is all about. 
You can't add more referees because there aren't that many people (over sixty refs would be needed for each day)who arc willing to put up with the abuse often players and their respective friends. 
You can't spread the tournament out so that games don't follow one after the other in a usually-hectic fashion. The tournament would have to begin in March ifyou did that. For the same reason, you can't avoid putting games on courts two feet apart and surrounded by people on all sides. 
Finally, you can't cut down coverage in The Observer although getting one's name in print is another reason for playing hard to win. This is not because The Observer· con­trols the tournament, as some people ignorantly believe, but because most students want to read about Bookstore more than anything else. 
What is needed is stronger leadership ofthe tournament. Not that the tournament is run inefficiently by the current 

leaders who have, once again, organized the huge tourna­
ment very well, hut there is much room for improvement 
as far as decision-making goes. 
I think it's safe to say that the commissioners don't get 
the respect they deserve, but they have hurt themselves a 
lot by mishandling a number of decisions over the years. 
The major problem is that there is not one person who 
makes all major decisions. The commissioner should be 
the only person making big decisions. No assistant, no mat­
ter how much that person thinks he or she knows about 
running things, should he making important decisions. 
When several people try to handle a situation that re· quires strong, immediate action, you usually do not get a strong, immediate answer. 
Case in point is the John Shumate debacle last year. Shumate, a former Irish basketball great, went after a player on the opposing team after being provoked by racial slurs from the opposing players and their fans. The commis­sioners gathered and decided to do nothing. Shumate's team won. However, that night the commissioners changed their minds and decided to eject just Shumate and pick up the game from the point of the fight. Of courst·, Shumate's team refused to show up and forfeited. 
Unless the commissioner himself can ca/m(y deal with the players and, after being informed of the entire situa­tion, make a swift decision that he will stick by resolutely, the Bookstore leadership will never gain hack tht: respect it needs to keep firm control ofthe tournament. 
I could be exaggerating the problem, but Idon't think so. More and more people are complainingabout the behavior of some of the players, and more and more controversies are arising over things like forfeitures and player eligibility. 
Tighter control ofthe tournament is indeed necessary. If someone is playing in a way that is endangering other players, warn him, and if he persists, kick him out of the tournament. It's as simple as that. It is the only way that the tournament can survive in the future. 
Bookstore Basketball is a great thing if kept within the guidelines offun and clean competition, but the guidelint:s are getting wiped out more and more every year. When rhey arc totally wiped out, which is not too far down the road, Bookstore Basketball will die because of a fever. 
After all, when Father Ted decides things are out ofcon­trol (in other words, when an injured player successfully sues the University), Bookstore Basketball will go the same way as Mardi Gra<; and alcohol. 
J ' 





