Guinea -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 116 the intkpcntknt ~tutknt ncw-.papcr '>lT\·ing notrt dame and -.aint mary·.., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 1984 

Gary Hart regains 
•

campatgn success in Connecticut win 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. -Gary Hart, cementing a six-state sweep of New England, swept to an easy victory over Walter F. Mondale yesterday in the Connecticut Democratic presidential primary -prelude to next week's showdown in neighbor­ing New York. 
With 87 percent of the precincts reporting, the Colorado senator was piling up 55 percent ofthe vote. For­mer Vice President Mondale had 30 percent, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson was third with 9 percent. 
Hart led for 34 ofthe 52 delegates at stake. Mondale led for the other 18 delegates to the Democratic Na­tional Convention. 
Mondale went into Connecticut 
with a substantial lead in delegates 
to the national convention, 674 to 
389 for Hart. Jackson had 75. Others 
accounted for 72 and there were 
160 uncommitted delegates. It takes 
1,967 delegates to win the nomina­
tion. 
Hart worked hardest of the con­
tenders in the state, hoping to claim 
one final victory in fri~ndly New 
England to rekindle the momentum 
he had earlier in the campaign. 
Mondale spent little time or money 
here, preserving his resources for 
contests next week in New York and 
a week later in Pennsylvania. 
In many respects, Connecticut· was tailor-made for Hart, with its large population of young profes­sionals who have formed the core of his support in other states. 
The television networks said their interviews with voters showed the Colorado senator running strongly across the state, especially among younger voters, college graduates and professionals. 
Several candidates who withdrew following previous defeats shared the remainder of the vote with un­committed. Former Florida Gov. Reubin Askew had 3 percent. 
Hart's strength in past primaries held up among the so-called "yuppies," the young urban profes­sionals responding to his call for new ideas in government. 
Jeff Alderman, the ABC news pol­ling chief who conducted a survey for WABC in Connecticut, said of Hart's sweep: "It's a whole state of yuppies. Low unemployment, high tech businesses, suburbanites, com­muters. It's a state designed for Hart." 
Mondale, in the unusual position ofseeing Hart better organized from the start, devoted little time and few resources to Connecticut as he looked ahead to primaries in New York -252 delegates at stake ­and Pennsylvania. 

By MIKE ELLIOTT 
News Staff 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life group has raised more than $7,000 so far in its Phone-a­Thon to raise money for the South Bend Women's Care Center. 
Begun Monday night, the Phone­a-Thon will continue through Thursday, April 5. nancies to term. The center will be 
The center will be run indepen­located in a donated house on North dently of the campus Right to Life St. Louis Street, across from the group and will provide counseling South Bend Abortion clinic. and aid to South Bend women. Based on reports from other 
In the coming two weeks, student clinics in cities ofcomparable size to 
volunteers will call thousands of South Bend, May predicts a $3,500 area residents in their attempt to annual operating budget for the cen­raise $50,000, according to club ter, which will open in two to four president John May. Twenty stu­weeks. dents will operate the telephones The Phone-a-Thon will continue 
each night. until Thursday, April 5. Approximately $3,000 has al­Monday night's Phone-a-Thon ready been raised in student dona­opener was "very successful," tions. according to May. "We think it will It is "an opportunity for Notre go over very welL" 
Dame/Saint Mary's students to help He stressed that the Women's reduce abortion, and to offer Chris­Care Center is a gift from the Notre tian support to women in South Dame and Saint Mary's students to Bend," May said. the South Bend community and that 
The money will help pay for one telephone operators are still full-time counselor, the center's needed. Anyone interested should operating expenses, pregnancy tests drop by the campus Right to Life and services, and financial assistance office in the basement of for women carrying their preg-LaFortune. 
Official El Salvador returns point to presidential runoff 
Associated Press ideologies in a runoff. Salvadoran 
law calls for a runoff between the 

SAN salvador, El Salvador -Official two top vote getters within a month returnsfrom the flawed presidential ifno candidate receives a majority of election trickled in yesterday and the ballots cast. the contest appeared headed toward The first official returns, from a runoffbetween two bitter rivals. three small towns in San Vicente 
Official vote tabulation was province, showed Duarte with delayed for two days by political 1,169 votes ( :H.3 percent) to 1,147 squabbling. But unofficial figures ( 3 3.6 percent) for d'Aubuisson. from Sunday's voting supplied by The official figures came from the 
the competing political parties gave Central Election Council, whose centrist Jose Napoleon Duarte 45 members represent six of the eight percent ofthe vote and conservative political parties. Two parties were Roberto d'Aubuisson 29.4 percent. not represented because they regis­Six other candidates divided up the tered after the council was formed remaining votes. to oversee the election. 
D'Aubuisson's Republican Vice President Roberto Meza Del­Nationalist Alliance party disagreed gado estimated the council would with those figures. A spokesman, take "four days and seven hours to who asked not to be identified, said complete" the tabulation. their tallies showed Duarte, S 7, "There is a total disorder in terms leading the 40-year-old d'Aubuisson of who gives orders in the council. by 41 percent to 35 percent. Every member is from a different 
He agreed with a spokesman from party and they can't agree on any­Duart.e's Christian Democratic Party that Duarte and d'Aubuisson would see OFFICIAL, page 3 have to test their sharply differing 
Electronic boards hit dining halls 
By ERIK HICKEY sign is devoted to a monthly calen­News Staff dar of campus events. According to Sinkowski, this calendar must be 
The new electronic bulletin completed and sent to Campus boards installed in the dining halls Source, the New Jersey company over spring break are not working at which operates the signs, two full capacity yet due to organization­months in advance. al problems, according to Om­The logistics ofobtaining informa­budsman Director Henry Sinkowski. tion for the signs from the numerous 
The lower right corner of each campus organizations have not been satisfactorily arranged, according to Sinkowski. 

The policy controlling the use of the signs was decided upon last semester by the Student Activities Programming Board and Calendar Committee. Ombudsman and the SAPB will both be responsible for programming the boards, which can be accomplished daily by using a keyboard device. Daily reprogram­ming is a key difference between the new boards and the old news-line boards in the library pit-and LaFortune lobby, which are reprogrammed on a monthly basis, said Sinkowski. 
The lower left corner of the signs is set aside for advertisements from Campus Source, part of Guaranteed Sales, Inc. of East Brunswick, N.J., which provides the signs to schools free ofcharge. 
David Drouillard, director of SAPB stated that the boards were first noticed by Notre Dame student officials at a student convention. He also added that they have gone over well in other places, including Wes­tern Illinois. Director ofStudent Ac­tivities James McDonnell first suggested the implementation of such bulletin boards at Notre Dame, and was responsible for obtaining them, said Drouillard. 
Drouillard and Sinkowski made the observations that the boards are both eye catching and effective means of circulating information. According to Sinkowski it is Om­budsman's goal to get ali campus or­ganizations to submit more, and more frequent, information for dis­play on the boards. 

Wednesday, March 28, 1984 -page 2
The Observer 

In Brief . 
The price ofa transcript of student grades will 
inuea.'e to S2 effective April I. Also, first transcripts will no longer he free as they were previously. -The Observer 
St.Joseph Countyofficialsptan w take the state 
and lm:al Ikpuhlican Party organizations to court to recover tax money lost at the c;oP-run Mishawaka license branch, officials said ye~terday. The county commissioners want to make the Republican organizations liable tiJr some S139,664 in local excise taxes not paid 11l·cause of a shortfall at the branch. The former manager and office managl'f of the hranch -both former local GOP oftkials -have hl-en indl<:ted on theft and conspiracy charges for allegedly embez­zling S 12';,000 in branch funds. County Attorney Terry Crone said an April 4 hearing in St. Joseph Circuit Court has heen set on a mo­tion to intervene in a civil suit tiled March 20 by the state against Don Sprague, thl· former license hranch manager. "Technically, we have not sul·d (the state and local GOP) yet. We've merely filed a motion to be brought into the lawsuit," Crone said. The civil suit seeks a total of 5244,970 from Sprague and two insurance companies. The amount is the total reported missing in audits made by the State Board ofAccounts. -AP 
A fugitive state trooper accused of shooting his 
ex-wife and killing her companion had been upset hecause he was the target of a grand jury investigation into the arson of his home, oftlcials in Sullivan, Ind.. said. Jerry Cliver, 3 I. is wanted on a warrant for thl· murder of Donald Clayton and the attemptl·d murder ofJerri Lynn Cliver. While a nationwide search for Cliver continued, author­ilk~ considered the possihility he had committed suicide, an act suggestt·d in two long notes found in his patrol car. "From the tone of tht· notes, I'd say it was pretty clear he was very upset over a lot of things and that he may have had a death wish," Sullivan County Pro~ecutor John Elmore said. The letters, addressed to Cliver's wife and ex-wife, described a variety of personal problems, Elmore said. lk declined to go into details. Cliver was recently ordered to appear as a target witness bdore a Sullivan County grand jury looking into a Jan. 31 fire that damagl·d his home, Elmore said. State fire inves­tigators ruled the tire had been set. -AP 
Of Interest 

A stress management program titled 
"Personal Strategies for Coping with Stress," will begin Wednesday, April 4 and continue for six weeks. The session will seek to enhance coping skills through assertiveness training, time management, a proper diet, and relaxation techniques. For more information, call the Sports Medicine/Health Awareness Program at 237-7697.-The Obsen'er 
The 53rd Anniversary Rockne Memorial Mass and Breallfast will be held Sunday in the South Dining Hall. Father Robert Griffin, University Chaplain, will celebrate Mass at 8:1 5 a.m., after which breallfast will be served: Th~~·s ln~yllrft~e~"Profes­sor Thomas Schlereth of the American Studies department. Schlereth is the author ofThe University ofNotre Dame: a Portrait ofits History and Campus. Currently he is working on a book about the founder of Notre Dame, Father Edward Sorin. This will be the topic of his speech on Sunday, as well as athletics at Notre Dame from Sorin's time through the Rockne era. The Notre Dame Club of 
tht· St. Joseph Valley is sponsoring this event fur faculty, students and staff. Tickets are S4.75 for adults and $3.75 for children. Reserva­tions can be made by calling the Alumni Office at 239-6000 or Tom Panzica at 234-0124. -The Observer 
The American Red Cross will sponsor a btood 
drive this week at the Notre Daml· int1rmary. The drive will run from I to 4 p.m. today through Friday.-The ObserfJer 
Weather 

The snow isn't gone yet. 
Cloudy and windy today with ~0 pl'rcent (.'hance of light rain. Rain possibly mixed with snow. lli~h in mid to uppt·r 30s. Windy tonight with '-10 percent chance of rain and snow mixed. Pn·dpitation t·hanging to snow. Colder. Low in mid to upper 20s. Windy and cold tomorrow with slight chance of morning snow showers. Decreasin~ clouds during the after­

noon. High in low to mid 30s. -AP 
The Observer 
The Observer ( l'SPS ~')') l··IOOO) b puhh•h<·d ~tondar throu~oth l'riday and un homt· foolhall Sarurday~. t·xct·pr dunn~ t:x.&m and \'acation pt·riod~. The ObNerver is puhli~ht·d hy the: studt'lliS ol lht• l'ni\'l"r~ily of N1Jirt· Damt· anc...l ~aint ~1aq··~ Collt."gt·. ~uhscriptions rna\· ht· pun·has.:d for Sl~ p<·r )'tar ( S I~· JX"r ~c.·mt•Mt·r) hy writing The Observer. P 0 !lox Q, Notr<· llamc.lndiana ~(J~~h 
The Observer i~ a mt·mht'r ofThe As~ soclaled Press. All rcprodunion ri~othr. art· rt:~en·t."d. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
PnJductitJn CtJnsu/tant .................... Stt:vt: Desl~:n Editor ......................... Willie Suarez Deslgtl Asslstcmt ................. l.cv Chapelsky 
Typ.•setters ........................... Michelle Fanto jennifer lligou Neu·s Editor.........................jdf Harrington Cop)' f:ditor............................. Kevin Binger Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf 1)•plst ......................................... Betsy Porter ND Day Editor.................. Barbara"stevens SMC Day Editor........................jody Radler Ad f)£•siR1l .............................................Jeanie 
., , ....... .....
' ~ 

The American newspaper 
The idea first drew laughs. Then chuckles. 
A five-hour. live broadcast of a major newspaper in 
action, the critics said. would draw only a handful of 
viewers, with most ofthem being retired journalists still 
bitter about the cancellation ofCBS's Lou Grant. 
But the people of Kentucky surprised the state's 
public television officials last fall when a good number 
tuned in to watch the night copy desk ofThe Couriel·­]ournal produce Louisville's morning newspaper. Why the success of a five-hour dose of newspaper nuts and bolts? 
Editors ar the Louisville paper say it was because the 
public does not understand how newspapers work, 
how they function or how they tick. Perhaps it is true. 
For being the only industry explicitly guaranteed 
protection by the U.S. Constitution, there is little public 
understanding about what goes on behind the 
headlines. 
In this decade, however, the misunderstanding hao; turned to mistrust. 
Newspaper sharpshooters talle aim at the cynical "Nail­em-to-the-wall" attitude of some assignment editors Classes are now taught in college about how the media has become the fourth arm of government hut without either checks or balances. And the First Amendment blushes every time a cameraman rushes to the parents of a war victim to ask how they feel. 
But day after day, in the trenches of most profes­
sional and collegiate They arc the great things the newspapers, the situation is founding fathers had in mind hardly so melodramatic. +h~ ~.-ft, ol ycMr SOI't ? wht·n the Constitution was 
Stories on the Watergates get the attention, but the items detailing city council or church bazaars fill the pages. 
Lofty ideals about a "free press" remain on the shelf beyond arm's length when deadline approaches. When the story falls due, when the printer paces the floor and checks his watch, the editor and reporter do not stop to reread the First Amendment. 
They want to know two things: Is it fair? And is it accurate? 
We at The Obseroer have been asking ourselves those questions since Nov. 3, 1966, when Notre Dame stu­dent journalists founded the paper as an alternative to the censorship-prone Scholastic and the student government-controlled Voice. 
Said Robert Sam Anson, one ofthe newspaper's foun­ders: "The reaction from most readers was shock. There was actually news in the newspaper. Those were heady days. We were so full of ourselves and what we im­
gined was our power, the power to print the truth and, 
for the 1985 DOME are available this week in the Student Activities Office. 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT Tues. April 2 


featuring Sherri Woods in the lounge 
Thul• not a •lspriat 

IO~TACOBAR 
San.·Thun. 9p•·close 
Late Night Happy Hour 
San. •Thun• ..._lOpm ·close 
139 W. JlciUaley Ave. 

$1.00 MARGARITAS 
·~-~.• ~..~5 

2 for 1 BARDRINKS 
(five •laut..&o• c:a•p••) 

• I •••,'" 

Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Wednesday 


by printing it, somehow change the way the country wa.~ heading." 
In our 18 years ofexistence, we have not changed the world. But we have made an impact on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Just this year, for example, we published a detailed report on the firings offive dining hall workers. We extensively covered the inspection of food sales, the alcohol controversy and the Knights of Columbus building flap. 
The Sports Department was the first to report that ND would go to the Uberty Bowl, and improved coverage ofminor sports has increased game attendance. A regular features page talles an entertaining look at the life students lead, and a daily viewpoint pagl' airs all opinions, left or right. 
David flawpe, the manag­ing editor of Thff Courier­
journal, once said the only real purpose of a newspaper is "to do great things." A ~rear thing can be exposing government corruption or publicizing a popular event. 
written. 

But while the First Amendment guarantees rights, the responsibilities bdong to journalists themselves. And despite some reporters who poke cameras in the face of grieving families, the American journalist is a dedicated professional who values accuracy and fairness. 
We strive for those two valncs daily at The Obsen,er. Come up to LaFortune's 3rd Floor sometime and look the place over. It beats a five-hour television show anytime. 
Observer note 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
APPLICATIONS FOR *Managing Editor *Section Editor 
*Copy Editor 



~ 

,...----­
The Observer 

is accepting applications for the positions of 
Assistant Features Editor 
and 

Features Copy Editor 
Submit resume to Mary Healy The Observer Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune 
Deadline: 5 p.m. Wednesday, March28 
AlTENTION JUNIORS: 
The deadline for signing up for senior portraits has been extended to March 30 


Sign up in both dining halls during dinner or by calling the DOME (239-7524) evenings between 7 and 9p.m. 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 
"BRUNO'S" 


THIS WEDNESDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16" pizza with 1 topping for only $5.95 Each additional topping $1.00 extra 
Order 2--$1 offtotal price 
Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotal price 
277-4519
Mon -.lla.urs Fri-Sat 4·.JOPM Until12 am Open Sunday 4-10 pm 277-4519 
Wednesday, March 28, 1984 -page 3 
Guinea mourns president's death 
Associated Press 
DAKAR, Senegal -The govern­ment of neighboring Guinea declared 40 days of mourning yes­terday for President Ahmed Sekou Toure, whose death was viewed in much of Africa as a severe blow to the continent's stalled drive for peace and unity. 
Sekou Toure, 62, died Monday af­ter heart surgery in Cleveland, Ohio, ending 26 years of rule in the country he led to independence from France in 1958. 
Guinean radio monitored in Dakar, said Prime Minister Lansana Beavogui, 61, a close associate of Sekou Toure's since before indepen-
INTERESTED IN BEING A PART OF 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEXT YEAR? Applications and Job Descriptions are now availablefor Student Government CabinetPositions and can be picked up in the Stud. Govt. Offices~ 2ndFloorLaFortune. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY UNDERCLASSMEN ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY Deadline Mon., April 2 Questions?? Call Rob at 1088 
or Cathy at 1334 

SUMMER STOllAGE SPACE 
Special discount for KD/SMC students (5 x 10 spaces and larger) CALL 259-0335 to lliJSBRVI SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 8i.6 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••.,' bauxite, gold and diamond mining. 
What does the Student union Record Store have for .me? 
Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price Any record or tape may be ordered --takes 4-5 days NO EXTRA COST Blank tapes: TDKSA 90's 2 pk--$6.00 1--$3.25 TDKSA60's 2 pk--$4.50 1--$2.50 Maxell UDXL ll's 2 pk--$7.00 1--$3.75 
dence, was named as his temporary replacement until a new president could be chosen. Western diplomatic observers said he was the likely successor. 
llnder Guinea's constitution, presidential elections will have to be held within 45 days. 

Javier Perez de Cuellar, secretary­general of the llnited Nations, sent a message of condolence to the Guinean government Tuesday, and the ll.N. flag at the New York head­quarters flew at half staff in a tribute to Sekou Toure. 
In the Tanzanian capital of Dar es Salaam, President Julius Nyerere called Sekou Toure a "great nationalist leader, a great African statesman and a great man." 
In Washington, the State Depart­ment hailed Sekou Toure as "an in­ternationally respected statesman whose efforts on behalf of peaceful settlements of disputes had earned for him and his country an enviable reputation for peacemaking." 
The Guinean president had been flown to the Oeveland Clinic Mon­day on a plane arranged by Saudi Arabian King Fahd after a team of physicians from the clinic had ex­amined the president in Guinea on Saturday, clinic spokesman Frank Weaver said. 
When he arrived in Cleveland, massive internal bleeding was dis­covered and surgeons replaced his aorta, the main blood vessel from the heart. The internal bleeding con­tinued. 
"The president literally suffered cardiac arrest and he was not able to be revived," Weaver said. 
The death was announced to Guineans on the official Conakry radio. The announcement, monitored in Dakar, proclaimed a ban on public entertainment, urged that flags be flown at half staff and ordered prayers in churches and mosques. 
Funeral services were set for Friday. 
Sekou Toure was one of the generation of revolutionary leaders who led African countries to in­dependence. Along with Presidents Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia and Nyerere of Tanzania, Sekou Toure was one of the elder statesmen who strongly influenced African affairs. 
Widely admired in black Africa as 

a persuasive mediator, Sekou Toure 
was to have become chairman ofthe 
Organization of African llnity at its 
summit May 24 in the Guinean capi­
tal. 
He came to power in the struggle 

that made Guinea the first of 
France's African colonies to achieve 
complete independence, on Oct. 2, 
1958. Guinea is situated in Africa's 
western bulge along the Atlantic 
Ocean. Much of its population of 
about 5.5 million people is depend­
ent on subsistence agriculture, al­
though the economy also relies on 
. 
Official 
continuedfrom page 1 
' thing," said a council spokesman 
who asked not to be identified. 
The election itself was disor­

ganized because of apparent 
bureaucratic bungling and inter­
ference by leftist rebels that 
prevented thousands ofpeople from 
voting. 
Jorge Rochac, an election council 

employee who helped set up the 
voting machinery, said there had 
been only five weeks to prepare for 
balloting after the national assembly 
approved the election law in 
February. 
Because of the late start, Rochac 

said, the council was forced to work 
with outdated information. In some 
cases it established polling places in 
public buildings that had long since 
been closed or destroyed by war. 
Rochac said he thought the coun­

cil, in an attempt to avoid fraud, also 
had set up a system of safeguards 
that was far too complex. 
So, on election day, thousands of 

Salvadorans couldn't find their pol­
ling places, and others were 
confused over eligibility. 
A CHALLENGE. 
No one ever said delivering The Observer would be easy.lt's a tough job, and we need a talented person to take on the challenge. 1f you would like to deliver The Observer on Tuesda sand Thursda s, call Jeff at 239-7471. 
The -Observer 

·----·-------· ·-----------·---·--.J 
The Observer Wednesday, March 28, 1984 -page 4 
Democratic budget plans stall in House 
Associated Press 
W ASlllN<iTON -lkmocratic.: 
lt:adt:rs, facing complaintl> from their 
own troops, stumbkd yt:stcrday at 
the start of an dfort to push a ~I H·l 
billion ddkit-rt:duetion package 
through the lloust:. 
Tht.· llousc Budgt:t Committee was st:t to bt:gin work on the so­calkd "pay-as-you-go" plan t.·n­dorsnl by the Democratic lt:adcrship. Work was t:xpectt:d to bt: eompkted Wt:dnesday so that the full I louse could vote next wcck. 
llour~ bdort: tht: committt.•t• ses­
sion, all lloust.· lkmocrats mt:t 
privatdy to dist.·uss the issut:. Par­
ticipants said afterward that while: 
outright opposition to tht: kader­
ship plan was not t:xprt:ssed, scvt:ral 
new proposals Wt.'rt.· prt.•st.·nted from 
sevt.·ral sq~mt.·nts of the party. That 
sent tht.· Budget Committet: 
lkmo<:rats snambling to try to 
come up with ways to accommodate 
the various ideas. 
lloust.· Spt:akt.·r Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., concedt.·d "tht.·rt: may be somt.· variances" in tht.· package: as a rt.·sult of the scssion. 
Party libt:rab pressed for a freeze on any increaSt.·s in most spending -including tht.· Pt.·ntagon budget. Mt.·n1bers of the Black Caucus pressnl their own plan that would devote more to domestic programs. And tht.· const·rvative "Boll Weevils" who sided with President Reagan's economk program in 19H I expressnl a dilkrenct view. 
But the Demonats appeared to agrt.·e they want a plan that can easily bt· t•xplained to voters, emphasizes tht.'ir difft.·rences with Reagan and shows a lower deficit than that prodw.."l'd under the plan Reagan backs. 
Tht.· president's fiscal I9H'; budget proposal contains a proje<:tt.•d deficit of $1 H0.4 billion. In his January State of the Union address Reagan called for bipartisan talks betwet:n the White llouse and Congress on a three-year, $100 bil­lion "down paymt·nt" on eliminating deficits. Thost.· talks collapsed after only four meetings. 
Tht· Democratic leadership packagt.· would cut domt.·stic spend­ing hy nt.·arly Sl H billion and raise taxes by about S49 billion. Those tax incrt.·ast·s would bt.· devoted to the incrt·ast·s in military spending and hikes in somt: government bt:nefit programs targctnl for tht· poor ­thus tht.· "pay-as-you go" label. 


SENIORS 
The Time Has Finally Come! 
Senior Formal Bids Go On Sale Today 8 
Available 4:30-6:30 at LaFortune and Lemans March 7-9, 12-14, 26-30 
Ac~~~xx~~~~~~=~~~ 


You've Invested A Lot In Your Education. .. Will Just Any Prep. Course Do? 
ANNOUNCING THE COMPETITIVE EDGE 
40 Hour 11Eiite" L.S.A.T. Seminar 
~ (; ~ featuring 
E Q • CLASS SIZE LIMITED TO 12 (?~ • INDIVIDUAL COUNSELING ~~ • EXPERIENCED ATTORNEYS For details or a free brochure call: 
BOSlON (b17) 871>-2200 • CHICAGO (312) 263~'l0 • NEW JERSEY (201) 545·54~4 NEW YORK (212J 809·30SO • PHI LADE LPHI,t, (21 S)5bHI70'l • W,t,SHINGlON (20212911-MOO 
OR WRilE COMPfliTIVE EDGE. 3400CORLE,t,R ,t,VENUE. RIVfRD,t,lE. NY 104&3 
Trouble Reading Your Student Savings Card? 

Call today for a complete examination and 20% OFF any pair of glasses with your student savings card. 
• Large selection of fashion frames 
t 
N

'"..........

• All types of contact lenses 
~~o 

• Prescriptions filled 
Ironwood 
~ 
Ctrcle 
~ 

• 
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 

• 
Dr. Patrick Albert 



ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 
JOHN MARSHALL 
LAW SCHOOL 
1393 Peachtree st., N.E., Atlanta GA 30309 
APPLICATIONS NOW TAKEN February, June, September admissions Day or Evening Classes 
John Marshall Law School admits without regard to national or ethnic origin. 
APPROVED FOR VETERANS 
Graduation from John Marshail meets the requirements ~or admission to the Bar Examination in Georgia and Indiana only. 
(404) 872·3593 

GROUND ZERO & MOCK CONVENTION 
present a Debate/Forum on 
-' 

U.S. DEFENSE POLICY Thursday, March 29 
7 p.m. in Centerfor Social Concerns 
ANYONE WELCOME 
MANAGEMENT INTERNS 
Glendale Federal is currently seeking highly motivated men and women for its MANAGEMENT
$39.50 
INTERN PROGRAM. Enthusiastic individuals with a 
4-YEAR DEGREE (prefer Business), who possess 
LEADERSHIP QUALITIES are needed to help meet 
future management needs. Eighteen-month
Soft 
program provides an overall perspective of an 
expanding financial institution and offers the right 
individuals rewarding and challenging career 
opportunities.

Contacts 
For immediate consideration, ,,.._ please send your resume,
With this coupon save on soft contact lenses. This special price includes a travel chem·care kit. Toric, extended wear M to Employment Department. and other special lenses not included. Coupon and student/ faculty identification must be presented at time of order. 
aDc::~!~~.!~~~.~
N 

350 S.E. Second Street South Bend: Scottsdale Mall 291-2222 
'"""'""' · ::wtq'A. 1 ~tJt::Mf'etale, FL 33301
Elkhart: Concord Mall 875-7472 
Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Mall Hours 
~ 
PROFESSIONAL EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE BY ~ I .OPTOMET~IST WllH OFFI<;~~ ON PREMISES ~ I ---~-.,._-------------·-··I 
View~_O_l_._n_t_________w_e_dn-es-da-y,_M_arc-h-28_,1-9-84-p-ag_e~ 
Notes from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida 
Ft. Lauderdale is certainly an interesting place. Some might call it a modern day Sodom and Gomorrah while others might describe it as the best place possible to spend a Spring Break. Of course maybe these two descrip· tions are not too dissimilar. 
Whatever one thinks of Ft. Lauderdale, spending a week there is definitely an ex­perience. One beach lifeguard describes the 
Mark Boennighausen 
Gravity is a myth 

atmosphere perfectly: "(They) just come to the beach, disengage their brain and weird out. They're not conscientious ...what kills me is this is our educated population." 
Since there are usually around 20,000 col­lege students from all over the Eastern halfof the country in Ft. Lauderdale in any given w¢t.·k during the Spring Break months, one might expect Notre Dame students to melt right into the masses. To a great extent this happens. 
The arrival of Domers in Florida did, however, receive some advance publicity. Lo­cal newspapers ran feature articles on the presence of the Notre Dame Alumni van in Ft. Lauderdale and the services it provided. Also resurrected in these articles were the events of last year's Spring Break in Ft. Lauderdale which brought Notre Dame some unwanted national publicity. 
Although there were only around 800 
Notre Dame students down in the Ft. 
Lauderdale area, small in comparison to some 
schools, it seems that the Notre Dame mys­
tique works even in the sunshine ofFlorida. 
As mentioned before, Notre Dame students 
did mix in well with the rest of the masses. It 
was easy to find the Irish among the 30 bars up 
and down the "The Strip." They tended to 
congregate in the bars which possessed that 
special garage atmosphere. 
In fact, one of the more popular of these establishments was quickly dubbed Corby's Southeast. Another requirement for a place to be a popular hang-out was a lack of a cover charge. Once again the high cost of a Notre Dame education cuts into the student's social life. 
There were exceptions to the garage bar scene. Some students stayed in the hotel bar and heckled the evening entertainment while buying expensive drinks from Jean the cock­tail waitress in the knock-out green dress. And when the entertainment failed, a few intrepid Domers took the stage and performed quite admirably. Rest assured Dean Roemer, none ofthe activity was illicit, although some ofthe lyrics were a bit bawdy. 
Perhaps the most memorable experience of my trip took place in a "dive" bar off the beaten path. It was this event that renewed my faith in the quality and moral integrity of a Notre Dame education. 
As I sipped a cool cocktail I watched a remarkable scene unfold. A fellow Notre Dame student was approached by a young prostitute. Instead of brushing aside or accepting her offer of companionship, this student engaged her in a converstaion about her life and work. 

In the course of this conversation he tried to convince her to get into a new line ofwork. It was not a sarcastic dialogue either, there was genuine interest on the part of the Notre Dame student. Father Hesburgh would have been proud. 
While an isolated event, this seems to sug· gest that maybe the hordes ofcollege students who descend on Ft. Lauderdale do not lose all of their integrity during Spring Break. Instead of concentrating on the admitted excesses that occur during Spring Break a more balanced view should be presented. 
Spring Break, while bacchanalian in nature at times, should not be seen as a week when all the good characterisitcs of college students are in remiss. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Christ and violence 
Dear Editor: 
After reading Ken Kollman's letter to the editor which appeared in the March 27 issue of The Obsemer, I felt compelled to respond. Kollm<Jl seems to feel strongly that a strong 
U.S. defense is necessary to maintain the democracy and freedom which Americans now enjoy. He is probably correct. However, I feel that his implication that Jesus Christ would support the United States' present trend in defense (i.e. nuclear weapons meant for mass destruction) is totally unjustified. I resent his attempts to twist Christ's ideology in order to support his personal opinion. 
Kollman wonders, "where Krais gets his idea thatjesus would not fight in any war, just or unjust...." It appears that Kollman has never read the Gospels, for if he had he would have known that Christ constantly taught that love, forgiveness and peace were the important things for which to strive. I have yet to find a Gospel which portrays Christ as "promoting pasonal freedom and liberties." Whether one wants to admit it or not, the fact remains that Christ was and is a pacifist; he abhors violence, including a so-called "just war." 
Christ said, "I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you...for if · you love only those who love you, what reward have you?"( Matthew, 5:44-46). He could just as easily have said, "Love the Rus­sians, and pray for them when they plan on making war against you." 
Maybe it is time we all stopped being "responsible Christians" and started following Christ. 
jennifer Cantwell Sophomore 

Honesty is important 
Dear Editor: 
I was disappointed and upset after reading the March 1 5 front page article on cheating in America's colleges and universities, including Notre Dame. 
I find it unfortunate that the problem is sup­posedly so widespread and common. To think that dishonesty has become a way of life to some college students is discouraging. 
Something must be done to correct the problem before it spreads slowly off the campuses as the college cheaters move on through life as "respected" members of the community. 
Dr. Emil Hofman is one person who is workingdiligently to correct this problem. He treats his students with trust. Instead of ad­ministering several different quizzes to his class, he distributes a single version to each class and urges his students to conduct them­selves ethicallly during the examination period. In this way, each student must make his or her own choice as to what kind of per­son he will be. 
Dr. Hofman's approach prepaFes his stu­dents for adult life more than any militant, "scare tactic" method would. After all, no one watches the executive when he closes a dis­honest business deal; there are no teaching as­sistants walking the aisles of the boardroom when the chairman decides to cheat his com­pany. Personal decisions in the real world are made on the basis qfethical and moral values. 
Unfortunately, The Obsemer failed to recognize this fact when it printed its March 15 article. Instead of commending Dr. Hof­man for the work he has done by promoting honesty and Christian morality through his example to students, it unfairly damaged a reputation he has built over thirty years. 
The Observer also unfairly tarnished the reputations that honest students are just beginning to build for themselves. 
To write that some "students speculate that a vast majority of the class has cheated" in Chemistry 11 5-116 hardly gives you the right to imply to your readers that cheating runs 
rampant  every  Friday  morning  in  the  
Engineering  Auditorium.  I  question  the  
validity and basis for your statement.  

I also question your reason for isolating Dr. Hofman's class for criticism. A number of honest people, including Dr. Hofman, have been hurt. 
Should we not encourage those working hardest to ingrain the Notre Dame com­munity with Christian values instead ofattack­ing the people who may be America's only hope for an honest future? 
Stephen O'Neil Freshman 
Women's history week 
DearEditor: 

The marking of Women's History Week at the University of Notre Dame was neither a "do-good" effort nor a bad joke as Mary O'Brien's letter of March 1 5 intimates. If her knee stopped jerking long enough for her to get to the library to read some women's his­tory, she would realize the significance of Professor Wemple's visit. 
Wemple has raised an important question in her research about the changing status of women in Western Europe as society trans­formed itselffrom chiefly regional polities in­to statelike organizations. Within both of these political contexts, medieval women were denied access to niches other than mar­riage or celibacy. 
Wemple demonstrates that their status and power within these restricted spheres were not static and changed in a complex way as medieval church and state organized them­selves. Her study is not only relevant to European history, but to comparative studies in colonialism where women have ex­perienced a decline in status with the advent ofmore complex political organization. 
Finally, Wemple traces out the changing 


FR\DA1'S C\-1~ M \ STR'j QU'Z i
I 

response of the Church to women during the critical period of 600-900 A.D. Since many of the Church's strategies toward women worked out during this period are still with us today, the historical perspective Wemple of· fers on the subject is especially relevant to Catholics at the University of Notre Dame. 
Professor Wemple deserves the last word and I regret that her visit cannot be res­cheduled this semester. 
Kathleen Biddick Asst. Professor ofHistory 

Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints o the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author(initials andpseudonyms are notac· ceptable). Letters must be well-written and typed. Material shorter than 250 words will receive priority. All letters are subject to editing and become the property ofThe Ob­server. 
T~k N~XT 

FR \DA'1:g CJ--l~M \STR'j
GUIZ. 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor .............Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Yn&i§Red-adi.Wria., represent the'-Opmfon  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor .............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  

" "> -o.. ~ • 1 • & a • 0-"'.."' a • • .0. ~-~ .,_.,. "'"""'"'·"' • ....--. ..... -...,..., • • • • • • • • 
Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketballwill hold a mandatory cap­tains· meeting this Sunday, April 1, at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. This is the only time that tournament schedules will be distributed, and each team will receive only one. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held on Saturday, March 31, at a time and place to be an­nounced. Women still may play in the men's tournament. -The Observer 
NVA captains' meetings for all spring sports will he held this wt.·ck. Today, men's softball meets at 4:30 p.m., open soccer at 'i p.m., and baseball at 4 p.m. Tomorrow. grad softball meets at 4 p.m., women's softball at 4:30p.m., and women's soccer at 'i p.m. All meetings will be in the football auditorium at the ACC. All teams must have a representative present. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club Will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in 204 O'Shag. Members interested in racing this spring -especially in Chicago this weekend -should attend. 
-The Obsen•er 
An Tostal inncrtubc and water polo signups will be held 
tomorrou• from ~to 8:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaugnessy. A $7 entry fcc will be colkctcd at that time, and rosters should be brought to the meeting. The games start Monday. -The Observer 
The Holy Cross Softball Tournament will hold a mandatory captains' meeting tomorrow in the Lafortune Little Theater at 6:30 p.m. All rosters and fees should be submitted to Ed Cunningham ( xH I27) by today. Tournament play begins Friday. ­
The Obsen1er 
The Notre Dame-Michlgan NIT final will be broadcast live on WSND AM-64 tonight at 9 p.m. Will Hare will call tht.· action between the Irish and the Wolverines. -The Observer 
The Fellowshlp of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are invited to attend. -The Obsen,er 
NCAA Volunteers forYouthwillsponsoracar­wash this Saturday, March 31, from II a.m. to 3 p.m. at Mike's Maplclane Amoco. at 1706 South Bend Ave., weather permitting. Cost of a car\\·ash is S2, and procedes will go to the Notre Dame chapter of the NCAA-VFY. -The Obsen1er 
NVA Aerobics Classes are now underway at the following times: Mondays and Wednesdays at 4 p.m. and 'i:1 'i p.m., and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. Classes arc held in Gym I ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
An interhall tennis tournament will be sponsored 
· hy NVA on Sunday, April R. Students interested in this all-day event sould contact their hall athletic commissioner for information about their hall's team. Rosters must he submitted hy 'i p.m. April4. -The Obsen'er 
,________________________________. 
Wednesday, March 28, 1984-page 6 
Record now 9-5 
Tennis team defeats Valparaiso 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 
The men's tennis team, which ap­pears to be rolling after its spring trip to Florida, downed the Val­paraiso Crusaders, 9-0, yesterday at the South Bend Racquet Club. 
Turned away from their home courts at the ACC, the team took a short road trip to dispatch the out­classed Crusaders. The teams agreed to play eight-game matches, and the Irish prevailed in just two-and-a-half hours. 
The shutout was the fifth of the year for the tennis team, while the Crusaders stretched their scoreless streak against the Irish to seven matches. 
The victory raised the Irish season record to 9-'i following an im­pressive 6-2 record compiled in' Florida. 
"Florida was tough," said number one singles player joe Nelligan. "but getting outdoors helped me a lot. I know I play much betteroutdoors." 
Spring 
continuedfrom page 8 
Notre Dame is the secondary. Four ofthe top seven players in the secon­dary are graduating, and, with Chris­toff often opting to use a nickel defense, at least a couple people will have to emerge to fill those slots. 
"One thing that has helped in the past that we'll also use here is an ex­tensive nickel package," says Chris­toff. "We want to have our best personnel in the game for certain situations, so we will do a lot ofsitua­tional substituting. 
"We are going to give all of the defensive backs an even chance to get a position, but they have to show me what they can do. We are going to put the four best players on the field." 
Even though there are some posi­
·~;:ions that aren't settled yet, Christoff 
The Irish needed experience, and playing eight matches in nine days certainly provided it. 
They won their first three matches convincingly, defeating Bis­cayne College 9-0, Florida Interna­tional 7-2, and Miami (Dade) 9-0. 
Then the Irish faced eighth-ranked Miami (Fla.). Al­though Notre Dame lost, 9-0, the match had some competitive mo­ments, according to Head Coach Tom Fallon. 
"Mike Gibbons started out slowly, like he always does, losing the first set 6-2. He won the second set 6-4, but lost the third In a tiebreaker," Fallon says. "Our kids can now say just how tough a top-notch team is." 
After a day off, the young squad came back to defeat Central Florida, 6-3. A 6-3 loss to Rollins was next, as Pat Shields made his first 2.ppearance this year, having overcome his pre­season injury, but losing, 6-2, 6-I. 
"Rollins was a tough match," said Fallon. "We were competitive, and we could have won. It really was a 
is encouraged by all of the talent 
available to him. 

"We think we have a good founda­tion of players returning," he says. "Our success is going to be based on how we coaches develop them." 
Christoffalso is excited about the chance to work with new assistant Rick Lantz and Bishop Harris, as well as veteran George Kelly. 
"This is the most experienced staff I have ever been on, and we are all philosophically on the same page," Christoffsays. "It's a credit to Coach Faust to assemble a group like he has. I'm really excited about being a part ofthe Notre Dame tradi­tion." 
Christoffsays that he will not con­centrate on specific schemes too much this spring. Improving fun­damentals, technique and attitude are his goals. 
If Ron Hudson, Christoffs of­fensive counterpart can provide a powerful offense for the team, Notre Dame's new defensive coordinator may help to create some victories. 
good close match." 
The next two matches were swept by the Irish, 9-0, as Notre Dame brushed aside St. Leo and Eck­ard without losing a set. 
"The only problem with the Florida trip was that the teams art.· either too strong or too weak," Fal­lon says. "I prefer going to Califor­nia, where the teams arc more evenly matched. But, we got a chance to hit a lot of balls, which is what we needed." 
Any improvement in the team's play could not be judged against rhc Crusaders, one of the weaker teams on Notre Dame's schedule. This weekend, however, the Irish are sponsoring a triangular meet with Hawaii (currently 23-1) and Ohio University, which should establish the competitive level of the young team. 
On Friday at 3 p.m. Notre Dame will face Hawaii. On Saturday. at 9 a.m., Hawaii is scheduled to meet Ohio University, and the Irish will take on the Bobcats at 2 p.m. 
NIT 
continuedfrom page 8 
will be the I'ith meeting between the two teams in the series in which Michigan holds an 8-6 advantage. 
The last meeting was in the final game of the 1981-82 season at the Pontiac Silverdome, in which the Irish prevailed, 53-52. Michigan was 7-20 that year, Notre Dame 10-17. Both teams, obviously, have come a long way since then. 
"We've both had to rebuild in the last couple years," says Phelps. "Now we're both going to be ranked in the pre-season next year, and, yet, we're both still young teams." 
So, while tonight it's the NIT for the two teams, next year it may well be these same two teams meeting in the NCAA Tournament. 

The Obsen,er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsen1er Saint Mary's office, located on the third flour of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 t'ents per five charac·
Classifieds 
ters r da 

LOST NO MEN'S RING. LOST ON 3/15.  Rider needed to Dayton this weekend.  JUNIORS JUNIORS:  HOW TO BEGIN  Dear Ann O'Malley,  WHISKEY IS A DOG-GOD!!  
NOTICES  YELLOW GOLD, BLUE STONE WITH NO ENGRAVED ON TOP. MY NAME IS  Call Lisa. 284-5176.  PLANNING YOUR JOB SEARCH NOW." THURSDAY. MAR. 29--7:00 PM. RC'OM  How does the wind blow?  Chester  LO'C, YOU MEAN MORE TO ME THAN  
ENGRAVED ON THE INSIDE THERE IS  118 NIEUWLAND  SCIENCE  HALL  WORDS CAN EVER SAY  LET'S KEEP  
A REWARD FOR ITS RETURN. CALL  PAUL  REYNOLDS OF CAREER  AND  WORKING. I LOVE YOU. FO'M  
JEFF AT 8854. THANKS.  FOR SALE  PLACEMENT SERVICES.  Kelly and Kathy Did you notice how dry the road looks ex­ 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING PRICES  AT  LOW  Lost: Brown wallet dunng spring break. Reward. If found call4570 ask for Carne  The animated·feature vers1on of George Orwell's satire ANIMAL FARM MARCH  cept for the puddles? Bill  JOSEPHINE, YOU ARE THE BEST THING TO EVER HAPPEN TO ME YOU  
REPORTS RESEARCH PAPERS LEGAL DOCUMENTS RESUMES COVER LEITERS CONTACT TEAl BAN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 234·4045  helplll I LOST 25 DOlLARS YESTER­DAY SOMEWHERE ON NORTH QUAD. IF FOUND CALL SUE AT 2962 THANKS! Lostll A brown velvetty sweat jacket It's  FOR SALE: GREEN OVERCOAT, LARGE, IN VERY GOOD CONDITION MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER· CALL PATY AT 8654 BOOTLEG TAPES 2n.6398 MAXELL & TDK TAPES $2.75 & DOWN  28 & 29 AT THE ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM, 7:00 & 8:30, FREE. Theo Majora: Do not miss the special dlscusalon with Father Josef Fuchs, S.J. tonight, March 28 Ill 7:00 p.m. In room 331 O'Shaughnessy. Fr. Fuchsia an Internationally recognized expert In  Patrick Gerard H. loves Allison Butts  ALWAYS HAVE BEEN YOU ALWAYS WILL BE THANKS,SO MUCH, FOR ALL YOU'VE DONE AND A GREAT BREAK I CAN NEVER THANK YOU ENOUGH. I LOVE YOU. MICHAEL Hey John·! mean to tell ya, those girls can  
my favonte. and jogging season is ap­ WITH INCREASING NO. 's,WILLING TO  Chrtatlan ethics.  flat out write a person all Jeff  
DEAL. CALL DAN MEAKIN 277·3306  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233· 7009  GARY HART GARY HART GARY HART GARY HART GARY HART GARY HART  Teas, Watch your maill  Was KATHY KELLY spotted al THE HOP on St. Paddy's Day? It would have been  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS COKER 233·7009  FOR RENT  PERSONALS  The Gary Hart Mock Convention Commit­tee Will Hold An Important Meeting Wed. March 28 at 6:30 in Rm. 305 Olton. All Welcome!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANDREA Ill LOVE MOM, DAD. GREG AND MOUFY·LIPS!!!  lun without M1chelle. You are really great at shanng, dialogu~ng and unpack1ng Have you ever thought of be1ng a nun? ·-Otis from Bunhuggers  
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  PENROD'S NORTH  Hawaii club members-· Tickets are in Call  
HOUSES · FURNISHED · 1 MILE FROM  CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE  BE THERE FRIDAY NITE  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR A CON­ Mike or Chris  
WORDPROCESSING  -FAST  AC­ CAMPUS 4·6 BDRMS. 2 BATHS CALL  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  GRESSIONAL  CAMPAIGN  MICHAEL  
CURATE WORK. 272-8827.  277·3461  TOMPOWERSTOMPOWERS  BARNES  OEM.  3RD  DISTRICT  IN­ 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIIII!ff  DIANA Good experience  and resume  The guys '" 1SO.  151 Alumm are total  
material. Jim-3584  studs!  
WE HAVE THE LOWEST AIRFARES TO  PINEAPPLE MAN SAVES THREE AND  
EUROPE! FOR FREE BROCHURE, WRITE TO:  COLOR CAMPUS  WANTED  Do you have a great sense ol humor? Do you think you are funnier than the  A HALF LOST DOMERS IN A HEROIC RIDE THROUGH GREATER  TO THE ALUMNI BEERHEAOS...JEFF. TIM, RICH AND MIKE. THANKS FOR  To Y'all Aust1nians: Sky King/Green Beer/M1ng!es/Chris'Kieenex/ Johns  
TRAVEL, BOX 11387, ST. LOUIS, MO  average guy on campus? Then  share  DECATUR I Oh yes, and KRUG BLOWS  THE BOSS TIME IN LAUDERDALE! DID  Mus!C/Giov's  Singing(?)/The  G·  
83105.  your  talents.  The  Observer  features  IT ... AGAIN  WE GET BAKED OR WHAT? SEE YA'LL  string/Moon·lite  V-ball/1  The  Donkey·  
Need nde to U of Iowa on Fri 3/30.Mike  department IS looking for humor colum­ FRIDAY. LOVE THE PALACE QUEENS:  Caper( Doni  be  an  !)/Julies  
STILL NEED A SUMMER JOB? WILLING  8842  nists to write regularly. For information  Congratulations Pete! I'm glad all that  BUBBLES. ROXANNE. CANDY. TAFFY.  Page/Brads  SplinterI  Hot  
TO RELOCATE? EXCELLENT PAY AND  contact  Mary Healy  at  The  Observer  lhroat1ng out with Mr. T. Mr. G. and Joe  CHASTITY. & APRIL!!  Tub/Marganttas/  The  Tumbleweed  
EXPERIENCE INTERVIEWS 3:30 AND  A1de needed to BLOOMINGTON. IN th1s  office. 3rd Floor of LaFort~ne.  finally paid off. Amy  Takeover/Dairy  Oueens/Mr  V  "Could  
7:00 THURS  MARCH  29 ROOM 2·0  weekend 3/30-4/1. Sean 8464  FARLEY HWOMEN!  you  put  your  face  1n  your  
LAFORTUNE  TOM POWERS IS COMING I  HI BILL! See, I finally did il: your VERY  KATIE TRAXLER  food?! /Mexico/Thanks to the Dunlaps  
Boldon  area  couples  are  seeking  OWN personal!!! me  for  and espec1ally YOU Michele for a SUPER  
mature persona to help with child care  SECRETARY  BREAK /LQve Vall "peless·Fre Racoon·  
and household reaponalbllltleslor one  MOCK CONVENTION '84  DearDTM.  Lobster Man)  
LOST/FOUND  year position In exchange lor room, board and wages. Please call Kate  defense platform thursday, 7, esc.  panel  discussion,  Thanks for the wann note.·  Mand ME  -M .. _,._, .....a.•••. -.~···-····'·· PAM. Z AND RUFUS ... SPRING '84  BEGORA!  BEGORA!  BEGORA!  Last  

 Goldfield 111817-862-7982 or write: 283  P.S. Who the heck are you anyway?  chance for St. Pat's Day fun. Fourth floor  
Marrett Road, Lexington, MA 02173.  BALLROOM  DANCING  BALLROOM  RUFUS, RUFUS, RUFUS  Le Mans. Thursday, 7:00PM.  
LOST: ONE SET OF CAR AND DORM  DANCING  BALLROOM  DANCING  A  DearDFM,  
KEYS ON A KOOL.JAZZ KEY RING.  NEED nde EA.3T on 1·80 to OHIO exit 4 or  GREAT  WAY  TO  HAVE  FUN.  CALL  Sorry about the strange phone call. We  WOMEN'S TENNIS IS HOT  FLORIDA SLAM  
CASH 4685.  REWARD.  CALL  CHRIS  AT·  ·5~l'OLEDO):Can leave on·3,29:call JIM at 8674-72  TRACY AT 277-7232 OR GINA AT 277­4184  <!iqn't ':"&I!Y.I~~k.)'9u.f~rgo) y~ur.n;)IQ<Ue, •••., .... , ....... ..:,.,.......,,.,,,,,,.••, .•,.,,.,.•••••••• ·~·YQU !?4Q,Ei.YPU .O!D.N'.T WI~ TI-!E initial. . P.F. RUFUs HA~ YOUR SOCKS WET T·SHIRT CONTEST?  


r--------------------------------------------------------~------­
T0 day_____________________w_e_d_n_e_sd_a_y_,_M_a_rc_h_2_8,_1_9_8_4__p_a_g_e_7 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 


I'U Rf..V!E.W 1H£. 
1HIIT'5 

rr5TtMONY WHit£ 
Af/EM. ON 11/£.5/111Y, f:NOUbH. 
HE'S A 
1.4£ BRE.AK FOR A 

MARCH 15rH, I GO AflfA~ 
IOTA/.. FIN£. 
M£.55A~FROM 
HeY.

WAS MAKIN& A ~AllY. 
··6/U. IH£ CAr" BRAN!7

JmFACf.. 
f

ROCK V/17-'f-

KitTY LITf£1\ . f 

Mellish &Dave 

GARY 1-/Af.T Will IEA!J A /1!1Cfi 
NfE!JEP fACT·f!NO!NG M/55/0A IN LOIJEI< CCWNECT/C!IT.., 
\ 




Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side Gary Larson 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 34 Give-65 Ruby 7 Church list 1 Fishhook (care) Stevens of feasts 5 Bouquet 36 Belle 68 Drama name 8 Naturalist 
10 Whack John and
Silverman 14 Tars' term 40 Deceiver family
69 Females:

15 July TV 9 Lack of 
suff.

fare vitality
41 Pola of old 70 Congolily Hollywood 71 Adolescent 10 Soap shape
43 Oaf

16 Lobes of 
11 Omit sounds44 Tiff
moss 72 Beginnings 12 Ties shoes
46 -Scott
leaves 73 Bark 13 Giggle17 Maria von 47 Seine shrilly 18 Undemanding

feeder 20 Famed ship 
Losch 

19 Despots 21 Standards 48 Neon is DOWN 24 Author 22 Billy-one 1 Soho Milne 
Williams 26 Author
50 Eunice umbrella 23 Perched Quedens Norman 25 Cat type 52 Strips 2 USSR 27 Sidekicks 
27 Norma 
rangeEgstrom 3 Maidenhair 
28 Clapton4 Hat fabric 
56 Curved or Blore 
letter 29 Equipment32 Macaw 57 Chern. suff. 5 Alder tree: 30 Auto shed 33 Kind of 58 Memento Scot. 31 Tidal 
rug 60 Wiseones 6 Came back flood 
Campus 
•12:
15 p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "lmmunoregulation and Autoimmune Disease," Dr. D. C. Bauer, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•2:30 
p.m. -Baseball, NO vs Purdue, Jake Kline Field 

•2:30 
p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, La Fortune Student Center 

•4 
p.m. -Faculty Lecture, John Holabird, Ar­chitecture Building Auditorium 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Decay of the Vacuum in Supercritical Fields of Giant Nuclei," Prof. Walter Greiner, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -English Lecture, "The Discrimina­tion of Mortalities," Prof. David Halliburton, 107 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematics Lecture, "Geometry ofSingularities," Prof. Richard Beals, 226 CCMB 

•7 
p.m.-Discussion, "Christian Pacifism and the Just War Theory," Sacred Heart Crypt 

•7 
and 8:30 p.m. -Film, "Animal Farm," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Social Con· cerns, Free 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Joyless Street," and "The Cabinet ofDr. Caligari," O'Shaughnessy Loft 

•7:30 
p.m. -Faculty Senate Meeting, 202 CCE 

•8 
p.m. -Ice Capades, ACC, $8.50, $7.50 and S5.50 

•8 
p.m. -Meeting, People interested in inter­nships, Dr. Vasoli, 120 O'Shaughnessy 

•8 
p.m. -Philosophy Lecture, "The Critical Legal Studies Movement," Prof. John Finnis, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Distinguished Scientist Lecture, "Notre Dame and the World of Radiation Chemistry," Prof. Robert H. Schuler, Library Auditorium 

•8:
1 5 p.m. -Faculty Recital, Laura K.lugherz on violin, and Karen Buranskas on cello, Annenberg Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
9p.m.  16  Facts ofLife  
22  Wednesday Night Movie  
28  Dynasty  
9:30p.m.  16  Buffalo Bill  
10p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hotel  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Police Story/CBS Late Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline 



lt. family 

38 Come-on 39 Machine gun 
61 Aside 

42 Date in 62 Beerpro·Roman duced at 
history 
one brewing 63 A mod. sci. 

45 Linguine 49 Boutiques 51 Org. 64 Beehive 52 Owed item 66 Gazzara or 53 Senseless Vereen 54 Brink 67 Burro 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 3/28/84 
=r..r..r..r..r..r..r...o""...o""..O""...cY"..r~..r..O""....oo"'"~..'->"'J'"...co""~JCI""..e, 
IRISH GARDENS ANNOUNCES: 
~ L .A Complete Range of Floral Services To~_. #} 
~'~ Chicagolandll* ~~ 
• 
$27.50 for 1 dozen roses boxed and delivered! 

• 
Sr. Formal Specials Del'd anywhere in Chicago 

•,,Next 
Day Delivery in most cases! ~~ _, \., t1' 

• 
Many other offers available! \!< r{, 



Featuring
For details, see us in LaFortune Basement Today 
THE LAW

or call 283-6867 Hrs: 12:30-5:30 Mon-Sat 
*Delivery to Chicago and 11 0 Suburbs! 
QQOC~_x,~.~-..~-~..o.. o,c.~_~,xx~~~.o..~_~_~,~-,~~~~.~.lo.c,~-~.~~~~=ccc~~~acccxx~~ 

Wednesday, March 28, 1984 -page 8
S~orts 

The Obscrv~r/Paul Ci&rt!Ul

Senior captain Tom Sluby will be playing his last game for Notre Dame tonight, as the Irish take on the beginning at 9 p.m. For more on tonight's game and Michigan lf"olr•erines in the champifmship game of some comments on the entire Notre Dame NIT cam­the 47th NIT. The Irish u•i/1 be looking for their first paign, see jeff H/umb's story and Chuck Freeby's NIT title er•er as they take on the tough Big Ten team, column on this page. 
Notre Dame to take on Michigan tonight in NIT Chatnpionship 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Editor 
NEW YORK -While baskets may win games, any basketball team must get rebounds to get those baskets. And rebounding may be the key to the game as Notre Dame faces Michi­gan in the finals of the 47th NIT tonight (9 p.m.-liSA Network). 
The Irish and Wolverines arc both big, physical teams that rebound well. It is quite possible that the hattie on the hoards tonight will be more exciting than what is going on in the scoring column -or even some of thr strangr goings-on in the upper levels of Madison Square Gar­den. 
"The interesting matchup will be to sec who can dominate the hoards," says Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. "My concern is how deep the Michigan front line is." 
"The team that controls thr boards will win this basketball game," Michigan coach Bill Frieder bluntly states. "Rebounding will be the big thing. They're a-; big as any frontline we've played all year." 
"Like all Big Ten teams," says Irish captain Tom Sluhy, "Michigan is physical and fundamcntaly sound. We're just going to have to go out and rebound hard." 
The way for eitht·r team, then, to get ahead on the scoreboard tonight 
Spring football 
will be to get ahead in the rebound­
ing column -especially offensively. 
Notre Dame also will need.to con­
tinue the 80-perccnt free throw 
shooting it has displayed thus far in 
the NIT, and not fall back to the 64.5­
percent rate the Irish had during the 
regular season. 
The Wolverines and Irish match 
up evenly. The best matchup of the 
night will likely come underneath, 
as 6-9, 245-pound Tim Kempton 
squares off with 6-11, 240-pound 
Tim McCormick. 
Although Kempton likely will not start for the Irish, he probably will see over 30 minutes of duty in the game. Frieder is concerned about how Kempton might hurt his team. 
"Tim Kempton really scares me," 
says the Michigan coach. "He's big, 
physical, and tough in there. He real­
ly bounces people around." 
Wolverine freshman standout An­toineJoubert probably will draw the difficult assignment of stopping Sluby. Sluby, who has been on a tear since midseason, now averages 18.7 points per game, and his 26-point performance Monday night versus Southwestern louisiana in the semi­finals wao; his 15th 20-point game of the season. 
"Siuby's going to try to talte me inside and post me up,"Joubert says. "I just have to kc<:p him outside be­caus~: it's going to he rather physical 
Christoff takes over defensive unit 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports lr'rill't' 
What docs a coat·h do during the 
spring foot hall season when scv<:n of 
his startt·rs r<:turn on defense? If you 
ar<: Notre Dame's defensive coor­
dinator Andy Christoff, you set forth 
to work on tht· bao;ics: technique and 
dt:fcnsivc fundamentals. 
Christoff wao; named by head coa<.·h Gt·rry Faust as th<: successor to Jim Johnson, who h:ft the Irish staff to become ddcnsiv<: coor­dinator li>r thr l!SFL's Oklahoma Outlaws. 
Ev<:n though his trrms as dt:f<:nsivc coordinator for Stanford ( 1983) and Orq~on ( 1979-82) wer<: not very successful as far as wins and loss~:s, most of the problems on tbose t<:ams wer<: rdatcd to th<: of­f<:nse. Christoff's ddcnsive units had a knack for rising to meet th<: chal­lenge ofimportant plays. 
"The philosophy we function<:d und<:r was not to giv<: up th<: big play; being abk to talte away what the other team do<:s best," Chriswff says. 
That philosophy has paid off during th<: past f<:w seasons. In the 1981 s<:ason at Oregon, th<: long<:st play from scrimmage against the Duck defense wa'> for 18 yards. At Stanford in 1983, Christoff vault<:d the Cardinal pass defens<: from last to first place in th<: Pacific-! 0 Con­ft"renc<:, while total defense im­prov<:d from last to sixth place. 
It was Oregon's 13-13 tit" with Notr<: Dam<: which caused a stir in the 1982 season. Christoff's defensive unit held a powerful Irish offense to just 253 yards and only 13 points. 


Battle of archrivals: Irish and Wolverines 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 

Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
While the itin<:rary did not include such sunny spots as Fort 
Lauderdale or San Dit"go, the Notre Dame bao;ketball team found 
plenty ofexcit<:ment over spring hrcalt in citit"s such as Springfidd. 
Mass., and Pittsburgh. Penn. 
With four succ<:ssive National In-vitational Tournam<:nt wins un­
der their belts, the the Irish will be in New York City tonight for the 
finals of th<: 47th annual NIT at Madison Square Garden. Digger 
Phelps' cag<:rs will b<: vying for their first tournam<:nt championship 
wh<:n they face th<: Wolverines of Michigan in a contest which will 
start at 9:00p.m. 

Th<: Irish have shown quit<: a lUrnaround during the two w<:cks of 
th<: tournam<:nt, playing good, consistent basketball in all four of 
thdr games. However, they will have to play 40 solid minutes 
tonight in order to fight off a good Michigan team that just missed 
bdng invit<:d to the NCAA tournament. 
This is it -som<:thing the Irish have bc<:n looking forward to for 
th<: la'>t month -"Th<: Grappk for tht' Big Apple." 
A Series Between Two Archrlvals ... An "Irish Items" tip of the 
cap goes out to Notr<: Dam<: Assistant Sports Information Director 
Eddie White for his help on this next section. "The Wizard ofWilkes­
Barre, Pa." did most ofthe research on this series. 
If pa'>t history holds up tonight, the Irish will he bringing home tht· 
runner-up trophy. Michigan leads the serks, 8-6, including triumphs 
in five of the last six games. Digg<:r Phdps holds a dismal 1-S record 
against th<: Wolv<:rines, including a 101-83 loss in his first game as 
coach of the Irish back in 1971. As far as tournament games arc 
concerned, Michigan has thwarted the Irish on two occasions in the 
NCAA wurney. Back in 1974, Michigan dealt Notre Dam<: a 77-68 
setback in the Midw<:st R<:gional semifinals, while in 1976 the Wol­
verines claimed an 80-76 victory in th<: Midwest Regional finals on 
their way to advancing to the championship game of the tourna­
ment. 

Recent games bctwe<:n the two schools have not had the sig­
nificance of those two encounters, but noncthckss, they hav<: 
produced a coupk of fine basketball matchups at the Pontiac Sil­
verdome. In 1979, the Irish were ranked second in the country 
befor<: suffering a 62-59 upset in front of a throng of 37,283 fans. 
However, the Irish came back to the Silv~:rdome in 1982 to put the 
cap on a dismal season by ddeating the Wolverines, S3-S2. John 
Paxson scored a car<:er-high 30 points, while Eric Turn<:r pac<:d 
Michigan with 18. 

Watching the Wolverines . . . Michigan coasts into tonight's 
game with a 22-10 ledger after a 78-75 victory over Virginia Tech in 
the other semifinal game on Monday night. The Wolverines will rely 
on good quickness in th<: backcourt to help ignite thdr off<:nsiv<: 
attack, but don't kt that miskad you about Michigan's ability to play 
physical basketball. Th<: Wolv<:rines are used to the bump-and-grind 
basketball on the inside after a season of play in th<: Big Ten, where 
mugging and kung fu are the two dd~:nses most often us<:d. 
Michigan has its share of big folks on th<: front line, and fans can 
look for 6-10 Roy Tarpley and 6-11 Tim McCormick to supply plenty 
of offense. Tarpley had 23 points, whik hauling in 11 r<:bounds in 
the victory OYer the Hokks on Monday, and McCormick add~:d IS 
points and 12 rebounds. Their ability to go up against Notre Dame's 
big men on the hoards will be a major factor in this contest. 
How<:v<:r, don't n<:glect the Wolv<:rin<:s fin<: pair ofguards, junior 
Eric Turner and freshman Antoine Joub<:rt. Turn~:r, who mad<: 
s~:cond-t<:am All-Big Ten this year, is th<: man to look for if Michigan 
needs a bucket in the clutch. Mcanwhik, Joubert hao; b~:en im­
pressive in his first year as a tloor g<:ncral and a dcf<:nsivc specialist. 
He will have the unenviabk task ofguarding Tom Sluhy, and, hope­
fully, he will hav<: as much success ao; Marquette and Dayton did 
( Sluby scored 30 points in each of those games). 
You Heard It Here First ... Digger Phdps' favorite t•xpr<:ssion 
during th<: NIT has been "the b<:ef is back" (a line he "stole" from this 
column two w<:cks ago), and, ind<:cd, Tim Kempton has made his 
pres~:nc<: f<:lt in the Irish lineup sine<: his return. The big guy from 
Bayville has averaged 12.0 pt>ints p<:r game in his lao;t four outings, 
along with giving plenty ofsupport on th<: boards. 
While the 1rish hav<: certainly h<:<:n hdp<:d by K<:mpton, 
<:v<:rybody has bc<:n making big contributions. Sluhy continu<:s to 
sparkle, while leading th<: t<:am in scoring, and he has received much 
support from smooth-shooting K<:n Barlow. Jim Dolan continues to 
malte great passes from l'lis forward spot, while also crao;hing the 
boards. andJo<: Howard and Scott Hicks have don<: a wonderful job 
ofrunning the offense from th<: point. 
If all of thes<: folks can come up with just one mor<: good game 
tonight, you can "start spreading the news" about Notre Dam<:s first 
NIT championship. 

Pick ofthe Week ... Put away th<: clubs, golf fans, b<:cause you 
won't h<: abk to g<:t on the h~:autiful Burke Memorial Golf Course 
this w<:ekcnd. No, it's not the forecasts of Dick Addis that will keep 
you off the links, but the fact that coach Noel O'Sullivan's Notr<: 
Dame golf team will be malting their only home app<:aranccs of the 
season this Saturday and Sunday. Th<: Irish will play host to Tri-State 
at noon on Saturday, bdorc dueling th<: Xavier Muskete<:rs at noon 
on Sunday. 

Christoff plans to implem<:nt a similar philosophy here. "We will not give up the big play, but that doesn't mean that w<: aren't going to malte big plays defensively. 
"Our defense will be sound and aggressive," Christoff continues. "We ar<: going to talt<: our r<:spon­sibility and dominat<: that respon­sibility." 
Defming a new attitud<: and refining the finer points are two things that Christoff wants to ac­complish in the spring. "We will work on tcchniqu<: and tundam<:n­tals, emphasize pursuit, and work on mental toughness," Christoff says. "We'd like the players to raise their expectations ofwhat they can do." 
The one aspect of defense that could possibly be a wealt spot for 
see SPRING, page 6 
inside." 
In ddensing the Irish, Fried<:r says that he probably will go with a man­to-man ddense since th<: Wol­verines have had a lot of success with that dd~:nse this year -even if that means kaving Joubert one-on­one with Stu by. 
"Up front, Michigan goes with McCormick, 6-6, 230-pound Richard Reliford, and 6-10, 195­pound Roy Tarpley." Tarpley had 23 points and 11 r~:bounds Monday night in Michigan's 78-75 win over Virginia T~:ch in the semis. McCor­mick add<:d IS points and 12 boards (dght on th<: offensive end) during that contest. 
Joubert is an excdlent lead<:r on the floor for the Wolverines with great court savvy. Phelps. in fact, thinks that the freshman is one ofthe better guards in the country. He had 17 points in just 33 minutes against Virginia T~:ch. 
The other Michigan guard is 6-3 junior Eric Turner. Nicknamed "E. T.," Turn~:r is a fine transition player, who was honored as All-Big Ten Second Team byAP and Third T~:am by UP/. Michigan will often look to him in tough situations. 
Tonight's game will mark th<: end of th<: care<:rs of s<:niors Sluby and C<:cil Ruck<:r at Notr<: Dam<:. It also 
see NIT, page 6 

