--~~-~ 
Cereal -page 6 
... 

United Way fund drivei• nets more than $7,000
J..,... 


in 'creative' campaign 
ByJOHN WALTERS in large sums for United Way. The News Staff dunk tank, brainchild ofDillon soph­omore Mil<e Romano, topped all The good news: The 1984 United halls by earning more than $500. Way drive at Notre Dame surpassed Romano said everyone involved last year's total of 15,300 by more responded well to Dillon's efforts to than $2,000. help United Way. A local business 
The bad news: lbis year's drive donated the tank, and various fell almost S5,000 short ofits goal. campus celebrities willingly gave Steve Burt and Tom Lezynski, co­their time. "Coach Phelps, Coach 1 chairmen of this year's drive, Faust, (football players) Mike Golic, l

,
worked with Student Body Vice Mike Kelley, (Dillon rector) Father 

,
President Cathy David and represen­Poorman, and even Professor Rice of 
I
tatives from all of the halls to coor­the law school sat in the tank after 

1
dinate what David considered one of being contacted only two days the most creative and ambitious before. And Coach Faust gave up United Way drives at Notre Dame in two hours of his afternoon the day ·~ recent years. before the Miami game," Romano 


VOL XIX, NO. 66 MONDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1984 
Since the 1983 drive collected said. only 15,300, an average ofless than a Why then, didn't the committee dollar per student, this year's volun­reach its goal of $12,000? "There teer committee dedicated them­were problems," admits co­selves to the goal of $12,000. Tom chairman Steve Burt. "First of all, 

The Oboernr/Ln Cbapelsky Lezynski said,"We felt that it was an there were many more students
Some people had a ball 
ambitious goal, but we also felt that living off-campus and they are tradi­it was attainable. Two dollars per tionally tough to reach. Also, the

Tbe annual BeauxArts Ball was beldFriday night sold in advance because oftbe ball's popularity in 
student is not an unrealistic goal.' drive takes place during the two

in tbe Architecture Building. Tbis year tickets were previousyears. 
To attain their goal, the commit· weeks preceeding October break, tee adopted a different fund-raising and that is a time when students format from recent years. The seem to need money for travel or to drive's success depended on the stu­spend over the break."


Saint Mary's Carnival of Careers 
dents' ability to adapt to this change. "It is not a good time (to hold the "Two years ago, the idea was to just drive)," agreed Cathy David, "hut collect two dollars from everyone, we must work In conjunction with and last year the drive wasn't even St. Joe's County, and that is their organized," said David. "This year, time period." David also said that By mERESA WAGNER and to give the students the oppor­Roberts emphasized the benefits we decided to give the halls more when many students were asked to News Staff tunities to build contacts, he said. of atiending this function. Common responsibility and to work with the donate, they pledged a dollar and 
This year's carnival, sponsored by student questions such as "What do I Senior Bar." then forgot about it. 
Saint Mary's is sponsoring a Car· the student government, counseling major in?" and "What can I do with Senior Bar held United Way Still, one dollar is hettc:r than nival ofCareers tomorrow from 3 to and career development and Alumni this major?" might be answered, nights, donating either 70 percent of nothing at all, Lezynski said. "You 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Association of Saint Mary's, features Roberts said. its tips or 70 percent of its entrance can't make people give, they have to 
According to Jeff Roberts, assis­professionals from many fields. Commenting on the significance admission. "They were very helpful,' want to give.' Although the drive tant director of placement at Saint These include an accountant, an ofthe carnival, Roberts said, "Within David said. only collected $7,500, the chairmen Mary's and one of the coordinators adoption coordinator, a caseworker, four hours, this is one of the best The hall representatives managed express gratitude to the student of the carnival, numerous profes­a newspaper columnist, a ways to generate contacts for future most of the drive by collecting door body and said that on the whole the sionals from various fields will be genealogist, a newspaper editor, a employment and to gather excep­to door and by devising popular campus is very responsive to \ available to provide information to bank vice president, a marketing re­tional advice. Even an hour at the fund-raisers. Dillon's Dunk Tank, charity. After all, this year's drive women from both Notre Dame and searcher, a hotel administrator and a carnival is worth it. Th-::re is so much Badin's Kiss-A-Badinlte, and Grace's raised more money than any United 

to generate contacts, offer advice 
Saint Mary's. reporter. 
Two years ago, Saint Mary's held a Some organizations that will be college career week and a women's represented are Catholic Social opportunity week. These events Services, Holy Cross Associates, were combined last year, Roberts IBM, Infant Formula Action Coali­said. tion, Memorex, St. Joseph Bank and 
This year the purpose is to give Trust, Veteran Medical Administra­women an idea of the working tion, the Peace Corps, and the world, to oft'er professional advice Indiana State Police. 
Northwestern professor tells steps in marketing celebrities 
By CHRIS SKORCZ start early, attend the best schools, News Staff and be 'sold' properly. "Every sector has its celebrities, 
Chair professor of marketing at people best known in the area. Ac­Northwestern University, Philip tors, comedians, painters, and now Kotler, addressed a crowded Hayes­businessmen are becoming lkaly auditorium on Friday after" celebrities. A lot of this has been noon on the marketing of helped by modern electronics and <:elehritles. high technology. Therefore, there is 
"Marketing ha.o; been broadened a need for specialists who know the in how it is based," said Kotler. "First tactics and strategy involved. If you products were marketed, then want to succeed, the formula for services, places, and company succes..'i is complex," Kotler said. names. Persons were the only things Kotler divided the marketing of left. 'Jbe idea of marketing people celebrities into four separate stages, began in Hollywood and with each of whkh is a slightly different politicians." method of "selling" an individual. 
"You <.·an now manufacture fame Kotler calls his first stage the from just about anywhere. Since the "Cottage Industry Stage." The industry is no longer centralized in process hegins with a precocious l.os Angeles and New York, fame can 
see KOTLER page 4he created. All one needs to do Is 
to learn." Twenty-Four Hour Run all brought Way drive In the last four years. 


Former Notre Dame student dies 

By SARAH HAMILTON 
News Editor 
Aformer Notre Dame student, 
Kerry Axelsson, was found dead 
in Motel 6 on U.S. Route 31 N. 
Friday by the motel's manager, 
Charles Francisco. 
At approximately 12:30 p.m. Friday, Francisco found Axelsson's body lying face down between the bed and the door in her room. There was "no sign of violence," Francisco said. 
The coroner, Dr. Louis Grwinski, said she apparently died by choking after becoming 
ill. 
Francisco explained he had gone to her room to open the door so the maid could clean the room. It was past check-out time and the maid had received no an­swer when she knocked on the door. 
Axelsson had checked into the motel on Thursday, Nov. 28, be­tween 2 and 9 p.m. According to Francisco, she was alone when she registered. On Friday she 
Kerry Axelsson 
placed a "Do Not Disturb" sign on her door, and no motel em­ployee saw her that day. 
Axelsson was horn March 21, 1963 in Pensacola, Fla., but most recently she had lived in Cape May, N.J. She enrolled in Notrt• Dame as a freshman in the fall of 1 981 and resided in Badin Hall that year and the first part of her sophomore year. During the first semester of her sophomore year she withdrew from the Univer­
sity.  The  following  filii  she  
returned  to  Notre  Dame  but  
lived off-campus.  

This past October Axelsson withdrew again but remained in the area. Sister Jean Lenz, assL~­tant vice president for student af­fairs, said she thought Axelsson had told her that she was withdrawing because she was un­der stress, wanted to "get away from her studies" and had finan· cia! reasons. "My understanding was that she had every intention ofcompleting her college work," Lenz said. 
Her death "was a great shock to the residents of the dorm (Badin)," said Jenny Pitts, assis­tant rector of Badin. Pitts added that the members of the dorm share thi11 griefwith the Axelsson family. 
Axelsson will be buried tomor­row in St. Mary's Cemetery in Cold Springs, N.j. 

f 
r 
~ 
I 
r 
I , ~ 
The Observer 
' 

In Brief ­
1974 graduate in communications at 
Notre Dame, Mark Wenig, has been named the University's regional director of development in New York City. As one of six directors, he will oversee development activities in nine Mid-Atlantic and New England states. Other Notre Dame regional offices are located in Los Angeles, Chicago and West Palm Beach, Fla. Two regional officers represent several midwestern states from offices on Notre Dame's campus. -The Obseroer 
Charges of public intoxication, minor in 
possession ofalcoholic beverages and resistance oflawenforcement by flight against Edward Lentz have been dropped. At Lentz's arraign­ment last week the South Bend prosecutor's office announced it "declined prosecution," said Marylou Wolfe, secretary for the traffic and misdemeanor department. The Flanner Hall Junior was arrested Saturday, Nov. 10 after he ran away from police when they tried to question him about a party at 201 E. Navarre St. The police chased him on Riverside Drive and finally apprehended him with a dog unit. Lentz was released from the South Bend County Jail on a $100 cash bond. The chiefdeputy prosecutor, Jane Becker, handled the case. ­
The Obseroer 
Of Interest 
Seniors shouldpickupa special Weekly Bulletin in the Career and Placement Services office and hand in profiles no later than Friday, Dec. 7 for invitational interviews from Jan. 28 to Feb. 15. -The Obseroer 
Volunteers for the Shelter for the Homeless 
who have yet to be trained should attend a training and scheduling meeting this evening at 7 at the Fatima Retreat Center. -The Obseroer 
The BlackCulturalArts Councilis having a memorial service for Donald Taylor in Howard Hall this evening at 8. All are welcome. -The Obseroer 
The St. Francis Shoppe will be selling hand­crafted items made in Third World countries on the Memorial U­brary concourse starting today through Dec. 7. Come and browse and do some Christmas shopping from 5 to 11 p.m. The profits from the sale of these crafts will go to the local craftsmen. -The Obseroer 
The playwright, Edward Albee, author of 
"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" will be speaking in Notre Dame's Washington Hall this evening at 8. The speech is part of a lecture series sponsored by the Student Activities Board's Committee on Ideas and Issues. The speech is entitled, "The Playwright versus the Theatre."-The Obseroer 
UNICEF Chrlsttnas cards. calendars, puzzles and gifts will be on sale in the Memorial Library concourse until Friday. The hours of the sale are from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The sale is sponsored by the Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. All proceeds go to helping needy children in developing nations around the world. Last year the sale raised more than S3,700.-The Obseroer 

Weather 
Cloudy, windy and cold 
Monday with highs near 30. Mostly clear and cold Monday night with lows near 15. Mostly sunny Tuesday with highs near 30. Wednes­day through Friday: cold each day with highs in the mid to upper 30s. Fair Wednesday and Friday, but partly cloudy Thursday with a slight chance ofsnow. Lows Wednesday in the teens, warming to the 20s Thursday and 

Friday. 
The Observer 
The Observer (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mar be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 465S6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig Design Assistant ............ Matt Gracianeue Typesetters .................. Cathyann Reynolds 
Tracy Bringardener News Editor............................)ohn MenneU 
Copy Editor ...................................... liz Flor 
Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez 
Viewpoint Layout.. .............. Kevin Becker 
Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino 
Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe 
Features Layout.............. Dana B;Unbridge 
ND Day Editor ........................... Katy Doyle 
SMC Day Editor .............. Ann Monastyrskl 
Ad Design .................................. Fred Nelson 
Jeanne Grammens 
Pbotograpber ....................... Lev Chapelsky 
Typist ................................ Bill Highducheck 
Monday, December 3, 1984 -page 2 



New social dimensions with possible pitfalls 
Saint Mary's college community has dug itself out of its tomb, and the reason is Haggar College Center. All the offices and stores that had been virtually buried deep in the recesses of the campus are now above ground and in the light. 
Only one short year ago Saint Mary's was practically an underground campus. If students had a late-night munchy attack they walked to the lower level of the dining hall. For books and supplies students again walked downstairs to the bookstore in the basement of Le Mans. It was an eyesore of an excuse for a college bookstore with books stacked side by side with hot water pipes. 
Many students didn't know there was even an Obseroer office at Saint Mary's let alone know that it, and the Blue Mantle were in the basement of Regina. Student government offices and the Board of Gover­nance meeting room were there too. Student Activities shared office area with Residence Life, Counseling and Career Development, and 
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Inside Monday 

frequent the Corner Market to buy two eggs and cake mix or stop in to blow a few quarters on Pac Man in the game room. Haggar has indeed come a long way from its former existence as the Memorial Library. When Saint Mary's outgrew the old library the College managed to renovate and enhance the building, extending its lifespan. It is not just a student center; it is a college center, serving the entire campus. 
But is Haggar trying to be too much? It serves the community well. It's going strong and constantly growing. It has added an­
others in Le Mans, but with other dimension to stu­the distinction of being on dent's lives providing them the first floor instead of the with new activities from basement Banking was dances in the Parlor to en­done at the Notre Dame tertainment in the Credit Union, you guessed Chameleon Club. And now a it, in the basement of Le hair stylist will be the latest Mans. addition to Haggar. 
With the tunnel network Haircrafters will be moving among the dorms students in to provide a much needed could go days without service to students who seeing the light ofday. It was should not have to go off enough to give anyone campus to get a trim. claustrophobic tendencies. There could be problems That students ended up get­in the offing. With Haggar ting shafted and given only a little more than a year merely the leftover space old and every office small to was a problem. Not only was begin with, there is little everything buried, but there room to grow. The demand was no logical purpose as to is high to put more and more 

why things were located where they were. The rule seemed to be to fill space with offices. 
But all that was changed more than a year ago when Haggar opened. The campus offices did not just crawl out ofthe dungeon; it moved to a sensible location. 
Student government, student activities and publica­tions are ali in one place-together. Students are able to do their banking at Ist Source, to buy their books at the Shaheen bookstore and to grab a snack all in one cen­trally located building. Offices not only have windows, something basements lacked, but they also have an aes­thetically appealing atmosphere. 
Freshmen who didn't know what it was like would find it difficult to fathom Saint Mary's without Haggar. And those of us who do remember find it hard to believe the campus functioned without it. Think of all the activities that were not even possible or conceived ofbecause there was no Parlor, for example. 
Haggar bustles with students all the time. Students things which belong in a college center into Haggar, but how much more will fit? There is not much room for the growing pains Haggar is already beginning to feeL For the time being there are the large multi-purpose rooms on the third floor still undivided which could accom­modate additions. But it would be disappointing to see Haggar become overcrowded by trying to house to many things. 
The campus has room to grow with the available basement space as an option if the need should arise. The College should consider possible consequences that could result from too many additions to Haggar as it continues to expand to meet the needs of the commu­nity. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 


TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 

234-8997 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 



Art exhibition at SMC features regional work 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Sister Carol Ann Naccarato's sagger­News Staff fired stoneware "Adamas" and Paul Wilmoth's white stoneware piece 'lhe Regional Graduates and Un­"Wood Ash Jar". From Saint Mary's, dergraduates Art Exhibition is cur­Margie Tracy's oil painting "The rently being held through Dec. 13 at American Colonial" and Elizabeth the Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's. Robison's acrylic "Autograph" were 
Saint Mary's Assistant Art History selected. A total of 1 5 Saint Mary's Professor Mrs. Giovanna Sandusky and nine Notre Dame students en­and her husband Mr. Blll Sandusky, tered works in the exhibition. Saint M:try's art coordinator, Although invitations were sent to planned the exhibition to give stu­approximately 50 colleges, only 10, dents an opportunity to compete Including Notre Dame and Saint against one another. Mary's, sent representatives. Mrs. 
Mrs. Sandusky said students Sandusky said the show has not es­"often don't get a chance to com­tablished itself yet as this its first year pete with one another. lbey often and since the exhibition Is new, stu­have to compete against profes­dents did not have works ready for sionals." 'lbe competition was only competition. open to undergraduate and graduate Even though the response was not students attending colleges within a what Mrs. Sandusky expected, she 
100 mile radius ofSaint Mary's. said, "The students really enjoyed 
'lbe 47 entries were judged on it." She said she thinks the show will overall quality. Mrs. Sandusky said have greater participation in the that there were not enough works to future. divide them into different categories such as painting or sculpture. Overall, Mrs. Sandusky said she 
Rudy Pizottl, professor of was very pleased with the exhibition printmaking at Indiana University at although she wished It had recieved Bloomington, judged the exhibition more entries. She said the exhibition and selected Notre Dame and Saint was done for the students and added Mary's students for five of the eight "Since the students are happy, we S'iO cash prizes awarded. are happy." The Sanduskys said they 
Notre Dame winners were Kevin hope to hold the show again next Firme's untitled steel sculpture, year at the same time. 

Schroeder doing well 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -William ). Schroeder chatted and joked with two close, hometown friend~ Sunday, and his progress was des­cribed as "excellent" after one week with a mechanical heart. 
Dr. William DeVries said Schroeder's blood pressure was normal and that he had spent three more hours on the portable pump. 
DeVries, in a statement released by Humana Hospital Audubon, also noted that it was two years ago Sunday that he performed the world's first implant on Dr. Barney Clark in Utah. 
DeVries said that "all ofmankind owe agreat deal to Clark for what he has given us. Schroeder is alive today because of Clark." 
Generalmeeting for diose interested in helping with the 
Multiple Sclerosis Fund Drive 
Tues•• Dec. 4th 7-8pm Little Theatre, Lafortune 
Help Notre Dame win a free MTV concerti 
______Everyone Welcome!___~-­
Monday, December 3, 1984 -page 3 


lb< Ob!l<rnr/Lcv Cbapdolcy

Not your average duet 
Anand Ptllay (left) and AdtH Awastht play In-Recital held last Friday evening in the Library dian instruments at the India Association Sitar Auditorium. 


New AFROTC cadet commander named 
Special to The Observer 
clety, a service organization affili­ated with the Air Force Association, 
Cadet Warren Berry, a junior in to acting as flight commander for as the University's five-year mechani­many as 25 underclass corps mem­cal engineering/arts and letters pro­bers. gram, will assume command of Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC cadet This honor Is the latest in a series corps Wednesday. for Berry. This past summer he won 
His induction wiU be part of the a AFROTC Vice-Commandant AFROTC detachment's fall awards award. The award is reserved for ap­program which wiU be held in the proximately the top three percent of library Auditorium at 4:30 pm. all AFROTC cadets completing field Berry's responsibilities as corps training. He was also honored by the
\~,

commander will include the plan­National Sojourners and the 
;! \:::---­

ning and operation ofall corps activ­Daughters of Founders and Patriots 
Warren Berry 

ities. In addition, he will be of America for his efforts as a corps responsible for the professional con­tgart, West Germany but claims member. His detachment also duct ofall corps members. Hazelton, Pa. as his hometown. His named him as both the outstanding 
Berry is the son ofa retired Army activities with the corps have ranged cadet recruiter and Cadet of the first sergeant. He was born in Stut-from membership in Arnold Air So-Yearfor 1984. 

JUNIOR Class Ski Weekend To Sugar LoafMountain Weekend ofJan. 25-27 2full days ofskiing, w nights at the park Place Hotel. Round trip transportation & wine and cheese party! Cost is $82.00. $25.00 Deposit due by Dec.7th. 
Sign-ups: Dec. 3rd -4th, 7:00pm Lafortune Info. desk. 
531 N. Michigan St.. 
I 
or call John Spatz at 283-1150 
lt..~~~-~.!..?..~.~~-~~-~?.......Mi 

NAVY MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide:
* 
Your lull tu1tion, authonzed lees and educational expenses.

* 
The cost of required books and supplies.

* 
Rental fees for necessary equ1pment such as m1croscopes.

* 
A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 



Part1cipat1on 1n the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not mvolve any md1tary lrammg nor requ~res weanng of a Navy un1form. Your academ1c routme and lifestyle w111 remain the same as other med1cal students. 
Qualifications for this scholarship include: Be accepted for the next entenng class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. Be a U.S. Citizen. Be phys1cally qualified lor a commission as a Naval Officer. 
For more infromation: Call Marty Schmahl Toll Free: 1-800-382-9404 Ext. 6183 
Or write to: Medical Programs Room 646 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis, IN 46204 
Navy Representative will be on campus October 10 & 11 at the Student Union. 
clip and sa\•e-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip ~ 



! Counseline i 
~ n 
~ ~ 239-7793 ! ~ 
~ &. 
-a-End ofsemesterpressures getting ; &. you down? Try tapes 432 or 38. ~




-1-­
X:e Ill!..! .a:Ill
A_ ! ,.l_u, ..u•1111 ~ 
. ..,.,.. ., ,.._,. 
~ 

-6" • 1!:
=!._'-="'-'"--1111110
! ~ DMllat wttll c-ti'UI:Itl.,.. CYt.t\ol• ' ~ • Doalllll•it~-... n ; l: ::-;:·=~~..lOWIJ aM ... to DMl vttb It = 
c u ...--. -•• on-. '1:1 
~ 11 Da•IIIIDU1o Ill ~ 20 r-1o -u.s,. &,
n 1111• .......u,,-9"' JO Mllotr ud hell•h ...,,.. to Cope lllth It ; 
Ill J2 -•• Doo1 wt•• '-liMoo c 
!. : :r:.=~~:~.:n... ..
1 SS lullcU.... S.lf...l8t.-_. Ccl!'fldonu £:. 
< ;: :=·~.::::::·· .,
Cl Jt r-1• Sex lole--CI\ulctla aM StniMI ~ .0 Male Sex lolo--cbupa Uld Sn••M• .,. lAaml.at to Accept Youtoolf 11 ._, ll T1MraP1 aM .._ to Uee h 
70 lafat\Nt.Uon OT LoYe7 ., ... to eo,. wlth • 
an... lelatlonahlp M Dll&th aM Prine -ts LIDdernandt.ne Grtof to ...lplq I h"loftd 
160 tulJ Slpl of an eloohel hobl• 161 ..IJI'O'Mt.blo Declalonl alttout Drlftlllna 402 Self AeaortbeM.. U2 l:xellflea of Collltract luUIIl"-Ul Whet h Deprtu~on•J.z MDII to DHl with P.PI'••-'• 
UJ Dtproaalon •• a Ll t ..trl• 
ua a.c-1ac IJMIII,_.-1.,., f'r'aa ru-u 
•rt ~11"1 with Alc~.otM»~lc Pu..t• •tt Suicidal Crhl• 
•92 
a.eopialnl Suleldal1 Pot...tlah ln OU~n 

•tl 
Hllplnl s-on. ln • Suicidal Crleh 


The Observer Monday, December 3, 1984 -page 4 
Panel calls for halt in nuclear tests 
A8sodated Press 
CHICAGO -American and Soviet 
leaders should declare a temporary 
halt in the testing and deployment of 
nuclear weapons before they enter 
arms control talks next month, an in­
ternational disarmament commis­
sion concluded Sunday. 
The panel was also critical of President Reagan's proposed space weapons system. Commission chair­man, Swedish Prime Minister Olof Palme, described the system as "the militarization ofouter space." 
The Independent Commission on Disarmament and Security Issues issued the recommendations at the end ofa four-day conference here. 
The 22-member international commission included former U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, Georgi Arbatov, head of the Soviet Institute for U.S.-Canada Studies and former heads of state from Norway, 

Kotler 
continuedfrom page 1 
child who possesses a particular skill such as musical talent or athletic proficiency. The child's parents ac­knowledge this skill and attempt to turn the child into a professional in his field. According to Kotler, the parents publicize the child with photos and write-ups which serve as promotional material for venue managers at locations where the child may eventually perform. These include concert halls and television shows. 
"The Cottage Industry Stage is not very sophisticated," said Kotler. 
The second step for creating a celebrity is the Industrializing Stage. The aspirant hires an agent, at 10 percent share of revenue, to get the "break" he needs to get started. This involves hiring managers as accoun­tants and lawyers for the aspiring celebrity. Then the managers enlist the services of professional coaches and publicists. Venue managers in· troduce the aspirant to the media. 
"All of the managers and agents are like parasites. They are called 'resource suppliers', " Kotler said. "This stage is similar to a king with his retinue. Often, however, the aspirant becomes self-alienated and loses contact with who he really is." 
The Factory Stage is the least publicized stage because "the indus­try doing it wants to remain invisible because it wants to make the celebrity visible," Kotler said. In this stage, a celebrity begins by meeting with a client manager. The celebrity appears before a group of profes­sionals who evaluate the individual's skills. 
"For every hundred who try only one or two make it. Their success is based as much on luck and drive as it is on talent. Talent doesn't necessar­ily rise to the top," said Kotler. "This stage is usually used by aspiring ac­tors and singers." 
Kotler's final stage is the Market­ing Research Stage. "An individual is compared to some famous persona to fit that role. This country has a hunger for certain roles and there gaps to fill in the entertainment world," Kotler said. 
This fourth stage is more compl­icated and longer than the other three, beginning with a marketing technique decision. The celebrity is made to lookgood before the media. 
Kotler saiu, "The industry is in­tegrating backwards to breed celebrities from an early age. This is done with tennis stars, ballerinas, and even with sumo wrestlers in Japan. 
"This process ofmarketing people so vigorously has caused a lot ofdis­comfort for some people. It raises the question of values. It makes somepeople wonder if, in fact, those we see are the most talented in their lapa:tive fields." 
Poland, Japan, Nigeria, Indonesia 
and other nations. 
Palme said he hoped the United States and the Soviet Union would consider the panel's recommen­dations when negotiators for both nations meet inJanuary. 
"We don't believe you should open up a new front in outer space," Palme said, referring to the space weapons proposal. "There is a treaty the ABM (anti-ballistic missile) treaty -preventing militarization of outer space. And we believe we should strengthen that treaty and not destroy it." 
The report said U.S.-Soviet negotiators should be given "a head start in the race between armaments and efforts to control them. This should be done through an agreed and verifiable pause in the testing of new types of nuclear weapons and their delivery systems and a similar pause in deployments of nuclear weapons systems." 

The commission described its proposal as a pause rather than a nu­clear freeze. 
But one member of the panel, Al­fonso Garcia-Robles, Mexico's former foreign minister, said he con­sidered the pause "essentially the same as a moratorium or a freeze." 
Palme also said he was concerned that many Third World countries want nuclear weapons. 
"That would be an extremely dan­gerous development," he said, add­ing that the likelihood of Third World countries gaining nuclear arms would be reduced ifthe United States and Soviet Union agree to sign arms limitation treaties. 
Predicting how the U.S. and Soviet governments will react to the panel's recommendations, Palme said, "They will never take all of it, but they ... may take some ofit." 
GIVE SOMEONE A TAN FOR CHRISTMAS 
Ask about our X-Mas special · 
'mN-HAWA1&N 
sun tonn1rg solm 277-7026 J.M.S.-PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths f.C?r complet~ privacy 
VISA & MASTERCARD 
f""JJ....cooeooaaocoaOCiaacoco-..o-..r..o-_,.....oO"'"....O""....O""JJJJJ..r..r..o



I DISCOVER I 
~ ~ 

~ Learn About Yourself, Your ~ ~ Interests, Abilities and Values I 
~So -~§
o The DISCOVER Vocational Guidance ~ Program is now available at the office of ~ Counseling & Psychological Services ~ § Center, located in the Student Health ~ § Center. Students will find this computer ~ ~ system provides information on both § ~ academic and career opportunities. ~ 
1 ~
Interested students should call ~ 239-7336 for an appointment. § 
~........................... ....._,.....O""..............................o-...............
~,JOCr..o""....co'"JJJ~JJ'"JJ'"JJ_,._,.,..... J 
THE ARMY RESERVE GIVES YOU AN EDUCATION AND ttELPS PAY FOR ONE,TOO. 
Ifyour plans for the future include college, the Army Reserve can fit nicely into your plans. 
You'll get hands-on training in one of hun­dreds of potential careers, from communications to electronics to engineering. 
You'll learn from experienced, first-rate instructors. AndJou'll hone your skill by working on a Sarurday an Sunday each month at aReserve Center near your college. 
The money you earn (an average of $1,500 a year) will help with some of your college expenses. And besides your regular salary, you could also qualify for an additional $4,000 in educational assistance. 
Find out more about the Army Reserve. Call us, or stop by. 
Sgt. Messner/Simmons 234-4187 

ARMY RESERVE. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE. 

SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
TRAINING FOR VOLUNTEERS 
Volunteers for the Shelter for the Homeless who have not yet been trained please come to the Fatima Retreat Center Monday, December 3 at 7 p.m. Training and scheduling information will be provided. 


OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT 
WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! JAPAN -EUROPE -AFRICA · AUSTRALIA -THE SOUTH PACIFIC-SOUTH AMERICA-THE FAR EAST. EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS! 
More than 300,000 Americans -not including members of the armed services -are· now living overseas. These people are engaged in nearly everypossible activi­ty ... construction, engineer­ing, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accoun­ting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc.-etc. And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000 per month ... or more! 
To allow you the op­portunity to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and compil­ed a new and exciting direc­tory on overseas employ­ment. Here is just a sample of what our International Employment Directory covers. 
( 1). Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship com­panies, both on the east and west coast. You will be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, restaurant help, cooks, bartenders, just to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Ap­plication Forms that you may send directly to the companies you would like to work for. 
(2). Firms. and organiza­
tions employing all types of 
personnel in Australia, 
Japan, Africa, The South Pacific, The Far East, South America ... nearly every part of the free world! 
(3). Companies and Government agencies employing personnel in near­ly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college trained professional man or woman. 
(4). Firms and organiza­tions engaged in foreign con­struction projects, manufac­turing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc., etc. 
(5). How and where to ap· ply for overseas Government jobs. 
(6). Information about 
summer jobs. 

(7). You will receive our 
Employment Opportunity 
Digest. ..jam-packed with in­
formation about current job 
opportunities. Special sec­
tions features news of 
overseas construction pro­
jects, executive positions 
and teaching opportunities. 
90 Day Money
Back Guarantee 

Our International Employ­
ment Directory is sent to you 
with this guarantee. If for 
any reason you do not obtain 
overseas employment or you 
are not satisfied with the job 
offers ... simply return our 
Directory within 90 days and 
we'll refund your money pro­
mptly ... no questions asked. 
ORDER FORM International Employment Directory 131 Elm a Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, WA 98531 
Please send me a copy of your International Employment Direetoey. I understand that I may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis I'm enclosing $20.00 cash .... check .... or money order .... for your Direetoey. 
NAME____________~--~------------------­
ptea se print 

ADDRESS_____________ APT#________________ 
CITY________________STATE________________ZIP International Employment Directory 1984 

View~_o_in_t______________ 

lnfonet long-distance service is inferior 

Last December, a phenomenal thing hap­pened in the United States. lbe great AT&T network was broken up into over twenty smaller telephone systems. Good ole' Ma Bell was no more. Many peoplt: were quick to point out that this action would create prob­lems for those people who needed phones serviced, installed, or disconnected. And then, a revelation. With AT&T out ofthe way, all the budding long distance companies would be 
<.·ompeting for a vast market and, in all likelihood, would offer the lowest long dis-
Paul Cimino 
on a pale horse 
tance rates this country has seen in years. For students, this news was as enjoyable as an A in <.·hemistry. The feeling was that since compe­tition was so great, companies would be offer­ing the best service for the lowest prices possible and this would mean better and longer calls for less money; almost as if the phone companies cared about each and every individual -nice try but not quite true. 
Notre Dame underwent a few changes ofits own last Christma~. While we were all enjoy­ing our brief respite from the rigors ofschool­life, new phones were installed in all the rooms. When the students returned to the campus, they were offered the service of a long distance phone company which cliamed to be just a~ inexpensive and reliable as any of the big name companies such as Saver line and MCI. What they got wa~ something totally dif­ferent. 
From the very beginning it was plain to the students that Infonet was unable to handle the volume oflong distance business done by the University. Instead of being the Godsend the students expected, lnfonet showed itselfto be an INFeriorly Operating NETwork which did not deserve the business of the University of 
Viewpoint Policy 
Notre Dame. Why? Well, to begin with, more often than not, student's phone calls were much shorter than they expected. It was never and still is not uncommon to be cutoff once and sometimes twice in one conversa­tion. Alright, maybe we could handle that. Add to this fact though that using Infonet's lines makes a person sound as if they are speaking in a giant bottle. An aggravating echo charac­terizes many lnfonet calls. This is impossible to overlook. Finally, the Infonet bill states that all checks should be made payable to the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Is it possible that our illustrious University could be involved with such a shabby operation? One would think that the University would want only the best for its students. If so, how can the administra­tion condone this company's inability to offer the best service possible to its students? 
The Infonet gripes continue even further: more times than not it is impossible to get an open line, and sometime when you need directory assistance in another area code, try using Infonet -it does not work. 
In the beginning ofSeptember, we were of­fered the opportunity to enlist the services of Saverline. I and my roommates greeted this chance with joy and immediately joined Saver line. I also kept my membership with In­fonet just in case. Every now and then I use Infonet just to see if I am missing anything. I am not; nor is anyone else who has switched from Infonet. In comparison, Saverline blows Infonet away. 
'Ibe students of Notre Dame deserve the best. I urge anyone still using Infonet to change to Saverline, MCI, AT&T, or any other big name long distance company. In this way, the students will benefit and the administra­tion will realize that it really did make a mistake with Infonet. 
Paul Cimino is a. sophomore in tbe Arts & Letters Honors Progmm and a. regular View· point columnist. 
Viewpoint wants to bear.from you. Ifyou have an opinion, brlllant insight or humorous comment concerning anything appearing in The Observer justsend a let· ter toP.O.Box Q. 
I 1 
1 1



A Reagan-appointed 1 loony commissioner j ~ 
,

President Reagan has a refreshing attitude toward appointments. It is an adversary atti­tude. Appoint to the United Nations some­body who despises the United Nations. Appoint as environmental caretakers enemies of the environment. Ditto arms control. Ditto education. 
There is nothing devious about this. Reagan is himself a governor who opposes govern-
Garry Wills 

outrider 
ment. He follows his announced policy. The·· wonder is n<it that he appointed enemies of the agencies and education and evergy, but that the did not do more to dismantle the op­eration. Where other presidents had chosen chief mechanics, he sends people who throw monkey wrenches. 
But on civil rights he outdoes himself. 'Ibe man he appointed chairman of the U.S. Com­mission on Civil Rights is colorful in the ways he tries to prove that he is color-blind. Clarence Pendleton's sober analysis of the 1984 election is that it was "another political 
.Jonestown" for blacks, because Jesse Jackson 
and others lured blacks into the political suicide ofvoting for Mondale. 
One's first reaction, of course, is to doubt that anyone in any administration could be saying such a thing. Pendleton's characteriza­tion of the blacks' vote as a suicide bond means, politically, that President Reagan will punish them for not being Republicans. If they do not perform in Uncle Tom choruses, they will be thrown no scraps from his table. 
Can Pendleton really be implying that? He 
does not imply it; he says it. "'Ibey didn't carry 
the water or put up the money in the 1980 
election....You've got to carry water in 
politics. This is no affirmative action program. 
It's an equal opportunity to carry water and 
give money." 
Cash-and-carry politics. You get as good a 
government as you can buy, or truckle to. If 
you are dumb enough to back a loser, you 
deserve the back of the winner's hand. I find 
the Reaganite reading of "equal opportunity" 
especially interesting when it comes from 
black lips -equal opportunity to carry water 
(or shine shoes?), but especially an opportu­
nity to give money. 
Now you and I have an equal opportunity to give money to the art mw;eum of our choice and count it as a donation for tax purposes. But the local museum Is going to be more responsive to the Mellons who give them mil­lions of dollars in art than to those of us who donate SI 0 to an annual drive. 'Ibat Is equal opportunity in the millionairl''s world of art collecting, where the rich give and curators fawn. Is democratic government supposed to work exactly the same way? According to Pendleton, it is. And he is there to make it hap­pen. 
He is paid out of tax monies intended for the defense of civil rights, but in fdct he opposes them-not only for blacks, but for wo­men. He is the one who called equal pay for comparable work a "loony tunes" idea. Cer­tainly he works for his money. He calls it car­rying water. Others call it currying favor. Still others have uglier but even more accurate expressions for it. 
(C) 1984, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

P.O.BoxQ 
Heresy of modernism hitting church at ND 
Dear Editor: 

The recent election campaign revealed something about Notre Dame. By inviting New York Governor Mario Cuomo to speak at Notre Dame where he, as expected, con­tradicted the teaching of his church and the Pope that abortion is murder and justified his support of it on the basis that he was a politician, the question arises again: "Is Notre Dame any longer a Catholic university?" 
The standing ovation Cuomo received from the student body, after his speech in which he claimed that, as a Catholic, he could believe privately one way but act the opposite jus­tifiably as a public official, demonstrated how little the students know about the teaching of the Church and how much secular humanism has replaced it at Notre Dame. Cuomo's twisted reasoning, which few seemed to grasp, was clearly evident when he explained his opposition to capital punishment by saying that capital punishment was the killing ofa person, but abortion was not-abortion "is just a choice." 
Inviting Cuomo to speak on "the Catholic Church in Politics," while knowing of his pragmatism and public disagreement with New York An.:hbishop O'Connor's statement on the Church's ab~olute opposition to abor­tion, again indicates that Notre Dame is indeed no longer a true Catholic school but is following the path of the Ivy League schools, all of which once were founded a..~ Christian schools but have long since "progressed" into totally secular institutions. 
Allowing Father McBrien, head of Notre Dame's Theology department, to invite Cuomo to air his anti-catholic views, (as McBrien has done before when several years ago he invited and introduced Hans Kuhn to Notre Dame as a Catholic theologian after the Pope had just said Kuhn could speak no longer as a Catholic theologian), is as un-Catholic and scandalous an act as allowing Luther to post his thesis to the doors ofSacred Heart Church. 
To give Cuomo the national spotlight that speaking at Notre Dame does give aids and abets the movement of former and dissident priests and nuns who are setting up a separate American "Catholic" Church apart from Rome. 
This new Protestant group was recently 
denied the right to hold a convention at the 
Catholic college of Barat because ofits denial 
of basic teachings of the Church. I hope the 
group does not ask Notre Dame to host them, 
as they surely would get an invitation. 
While I was at Notre Dame, we were warned that the heresy of modernism was creeping into the Church. Apparently, it has at Notre Dame. 
Burnie Bauer Notre Dame Class of1938 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Editor-in-Chief. . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. Dave Taiclet Managing Ed1tor . . .. Mark Worscheh Controller. . Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor.... . .... Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . . . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . . .. Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the adminJstration of either Institution. The news is reported as Sa~nt Mary's Editor .. Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. . . . . Kevin Williams accurately and as obtectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion Sports Ed1tor . ........... Michael Sullivan Prrlduction Manager. Chris Bowler of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column V1ewpomt Editor . . . . . . Dave Grote Project Manager .. Amy Stephan present the v1ews of their authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the Features Editor . . ... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photo Editor. . . .. Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 IS encouraged. 
--~-----. 
Monday, December 3, 1984 -page 6




Accent 

Drama-18th century style 
,.. 
I" 
r 
r 
r 
,.r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,. r r 
r 


The Cereal Bowl 

Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
Strange days indeed 

I
f you're like me, you haven't been to dining hall breakfast since about the time the Redskins won the Super Bowl. The only reason I'd ever be up for breakfast is ifI'd been up all night, and in that case there's a limited choice of"foods." I've been there. I know. 
First, there's the scrambled, uh, eggs. You know, the ones that 
crumble into a million pieces the second you poke them with a 
fork? The ones that squirm around in your mouth so that you're not 
really sure whether you've really swallowed all the little pieces? 
Then there's the sausage links. Word has it that ol' Nieuwland 
invented these monsters the day after he invented synthetic 
rubber. 
Breakfast from your local grocery store is on its way down, too, if you've been following the latest commercials. just watch your TV­it doesn't take long before you hear a jingle for something like E.T. cereal. The people who dream up these cutesy little hits are recruited from the families of Nazi war criminals. And advertisers are at it all year long, grabbing for anything with commercial potential and transforming it into a new breakfast cereal for kids. 
I'll admit it. I used to go wild for Alpha-Bits, and I always wanted 
my own Honeycomb Hideout. Count Chocula and Crunch Berries 
still hold special places in my heart after all these years. And I still 
love a good bowl ofCocoa Puffs. It's an everlasting love. 
I used to think the people who thought these cereals up were pretty smart to be able to come up with things that would sell to kids like they do, but I've changed my mind. No, the people who hire these guys are the smart ones. They've studied the facts; they know what it takes to sit around and think up these cereal ideas; they know exactly who to hire. 
You've got to be partaking in some pretty wild drugs to sit 
around all day and think of new little bite-size crunchy things to 
eat. 
In the last few years these people have hit us with Donkey Kong, 
Pac Man, and Strawberry Shortcake cereals. And now, kids, they've 
hit another gold mine -Mr. T cereal, made with -you guessed it ­
brown sugar. 
Well ... I've been thinking a little bit myself, and I've come up with a few ideas of my own that are sure to be hits with the kids. I don't like to be cocky, but I'm pretty sure General Mills and Kellogg are going to bepretty jealous when they hear these babies. But since I'm such a nice guy, they can use these ideas ifthey want to, free ofcharge and with no obligation to me. No, really. I mean it, guys -they're all yours. I've even thought up commercials for them already. 
"Do the beautiful ones always smash the picture for you? Do you feel like goingcrazy? Try Prince Cereal, new from (insert name here)! Yes, now purple can rain onto your breakfast table every morning -these chewy purple-colored motorcycles and little red Corvettes will keep you delirious until 1999! So good you'll find yourselflicking your lips sensuously, gently, slowly, uncontrol­l::tbly, for hours afterwards!" 
Pete Rose: "Hello, kids! Now I know you all admire.me and want to be just like me when y'all grow up, so here's just the thing to get you started! It's Rose Puffs, the first cereal that lasts way beyond its time! You won't know when to quit when you're eating Rose Puffs, because they're so doggone good! These crunchy balls taste just like the tobacco I chew and smell just like the aftershave I put on! Have a bowlful and you'll be proving your manhood in no time!" 
"Ready for something new and exciting, kids? How about waking up to Culture Channs one morning, the breakfast cereal that changes color every time you eat it? You'll tumble for Culture Charms! Fortified with 13 essential and a few non-essential vitamins and minerals! You know Boy George would never really want to hurt you! War is stupid! People are stupid! But you aren't stupid! Try it!" 
"Hey, everybody, here's the cereal that'll give you the advantage 
-It's Frosted McEnroes, the first cereal ofits kind! Sure, other 
cereals may talk to you, but Frosted McEnroes actually talk back to 
you! Tasty puffs ofcorn and hot air shaped like tennis balls and 
rackets make a smashing mealyou won't complain about!" 
"How do you feel? You feel good, don't you? And you know why you feel good, don't you? Yes, it's all because ofBonzo Beans, the new breakfast treat with the picture of Ronald Reagan on the box! Everybody loves Bonzo Beans! Rich in vitamins, rich in sugar, rich in lots oflhings! It's poor in some things, but you won't have to worry about those! Try Bonzo Beans, 'cause you ain't seen nothin' yet!" 
Clint Eastwood snarl: "Yeah, I know what you're thinkin', punk. 
You're thinkin', did I eat six bowls of this stuffor only five? Well, I'll 
tell you, in all the confusion I seem to have lost track myself. But 
bein' this is a bowl ofMagnum Flakes, the best-tasting cereal in 
the world, you got one question to ask yourself: should I eat some 
more? Well ... shouldn't ya, punk?" 
I've got more, but until the powers that be finish fighting over 
these ones, I'm keeping them to myself. And ifyou find yourself 
eating any of these cereals in the next few years, you'll know who 
to thank. You're welcome. 




Teresa Keefe -=~ 
features staffwriter


-------/" ....~ 
T
he Notre Dame I Saint Mary's production of"The Dramatist" is a wonderful staging of 18th cen­tury drama. It is an intelligent com­edy, reaching a farcical tone at times with characters breaking into dance, dialects, and side comments. 
The play takes place in Bath, England and all ofthe characters are engaged in girl meets boy, girl betrothed to boy kind ofplot. It is difficult at times to keep all the relationships straight, but that is typical ofeighteenth-century drama. Vapid (John Sheehy) is the dramatist who manipulates situa­tions in order to record them in his plays. 
While it is difficult to keep straight whose affection lies with whom, the rest ofthe elements of the production help the audience. The couples are made distinct visually with stunning, color­coordinated costumes in case one cannot keep the pairs straight via dialogue. The music during the scene changes and gives the audi­ence a clue as to the tone each scene takes on. All of these ele­ments work together to give a healthy show. 

The opening dialogue went a bit too fast. Elizabeth Bottom was good as Lady Waitfort, the stuffy matriarch ofthe group. Her facial expressions conveyed lots to the audience. Kathleen Maccio was equally as good in her role as Ennui "I have an idea." Her repetitive line became increasingly funny as the play progressed. 
The audience liked Vapid (John Sheehy) and Marianne (Catherine Best). Vapid's struggle with 'Die, Die, Demigods' showed that he is indeed the dramatist providing laughs for the story line. Florivelle (Sue McGuinnis) personified vanity, conceitedness oozed from her character. 
It is interesting to note that most of the male roles were played by females. Ave M. Green was one of the best in this type ofrole with her Lord Scratch. The male roles took on a feminine touch which was nice to watch and hear. Even the evil Willoghby (Kerry Barnett) had a nice streak in him. 
The set was interesting, designed with pictures of "Beer Street" and "Gin Road." The make-up design was intriguing. Lord Scratch's face looked smudged throughout the performance. The fencing scene was neat and believable. 
The second act was more enter­taining than the first act. Some of the audience complained after­wards of not being able to hear all of the play. The same complaint was m'ade about the last production in O'Laughlin, "Two Gentlemen of Verona." 
It is difficult to place eighteenth­century drama on the contempo­rary stage, but the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame production of "The Dramatist" overcame most of the difficulties that one would expect ofsuch an undertaking. If you are expecting 20th century themes and language, perhaps this play is not for you. On the other hand, ifyou can appreciate drama no matter what the century, "The Dramatist" will fill your bill. 
Under the direction ofjulie jen­sen, this play continues December 6,7,and 8 in O'l.aughlin auditorium. 

Monday, December 3, 1984 -page 7 


'Frankie' makes 
serious music in Hollywood 
Love" and the fine song "Black Night succeeds with any Springsteen song, reelings and Ideas, the band creates a White Light," the band duplicates excepting of course The E-Street sound which is uniquely their own
Bob Phillips 

easy-listening sounds of the Band and the master himself. Frankie and extremely promising.
features staffwriter 

seventies. pays great respect to "the boss," "Relax" illustrates perfectly the The most obvious way to ac­remaining almost completely faith· direction of the band when left to knowledge the work ofanother rock ful to the original. They change a bit, their own devices. Again powerful
Records 

artist is to cover his songs, and replacing the E-Street sax with a synthesizers and vocals, combined 
Welcome to the Pleasure Dome con­strong bass, but the only other differ­with a heavy bass beat, move the lis· 
"Inc announcer of "Friday Night Frankie Goes to Hollywood does not tains four such cover versions. But ence is the voice oflead singer Holly tener. Despite all the negative 
Videos" has described the band provide quick thrills, but instead interestingly, one can learn more of Johnson. The band realizes that 
publicity the song receives, it Frankie Goes to Hollywood as "the makes a serious attempt to develop the band's personality from these "Born to Run" is not to be improved deserves attention on Its musical b;md everyone's talking about." their music, to build upon it and ex­four songs than from the original 
upon, buy they do a fine job of en­merits. It's a fine piece of music, "lncy'rc certainly a band that plore the limits of their creation. works mentioned above. hancing it. guarenteed to produce some mo­demands attention. "Jbeir single, The title song, for example, lasts for The only cover version that fails The group adds more to Burt Bac­tion in all listeners but always"Relax," a song loaded with sexual virtually the length of an album side on the album is "ferry," from the old harach's "San Jose," while still 
serious and sophisticated.suggestion, was bannt·d by the and runs through many musical song "Ferry across the Mersey." The remaining faithful to the original. A 
The album Is not completely with· B.B.C., and subsequently became phases before it's completion. They band adds absolutely nothing to the :;ynthesized beat and interesting out flaw. As I've said, much of the 
the number one song In Great Brit· arc not the first band to do this, as song, but fortunately the band keyboard arrangement are intro­lyrics are simplistic, concerned with ain and Ireland. Next came the any fan of"art-rock" knows well, but breaks away from the song quickly duced to the song, in a sense updat· a hedonistic life and the pursuit of single "Two Tribes," the video of it's a refreshing revival from the 
ing the original. Thus the personality 
stardom, nothing new to popularwhich features Reagan and recent onslaught of music commer­of the band is present, but lies dor­music. This example is from the title Cherncnko lookalikes wrestling In cialism. mant. 
song on the album: 5booting stars front of television cameras, both A question remains; is the band Their other ala "Frankie" ver­never stop, fighting dtrt)'. Obviously, this is an­making changes that will influence sion,"War," is their great unoriginal Even when they reach the top. other bid for attention by the band, all music in upcoming years? In success. The song becomes their Here comes the superno(la. and they're succeeding in great other words, are they indeed a "new own. The driving bass, explosive What a pushover. measures. direction in music?" synthesizers and powerful, evi­Another flaw in the album Is the "Jncy have also been called "a new "Inc album seems to be a blend of dently well-trained vocals of Holly song "The Power of Love," a slow, direction in music," a phrase which existing music with more current 
Johnson make the song an emo­boring song which sounds like any
implies both musical seriousness sounds rather than an entirely new tional, moving piece of music. The pop music in the seventies. "Inc and a concious effort to change the direction in music. "Inere are song is also interesting in that it in­lyrics contradict the hedonistic course of music. Docs this band moments of operatic singing in the cludes a speech delivered by a voice 
theme of the rest of the album, be· deserve to be called "a new direc­album, as well as a bit of classical which sounds very much like coming conventional and com­
WELCOME TO

tion in music," or are they just an­music (which accompanies a discus­Reagan's, dealing with love, beauty pletely uninteresting.

----------THE---------­

other self-gratifying band seeking sion of the mysteries of pleasure · an PLEASUREDOME and the values of culture, which he If you can ignore this last song,glory and wealth? interesting combination). Within feels must be preserved "after the you won't regret buying the album. "lneir first American album the title track, the band alludes to war." Though a bit simple lyrically ... Ultimately, I would say that the band rekasc, Welcome to the Pleasure "Tommy's Holiday Camp," by the ,, rJ\1j War 
does not represent a "new direc­Dome, makes It perfectly clear that Who. And an instrumental, "'Jbe Bal­What is itgoodfor? tion" in music, but It does provide they are indeed serious musicians. lad of '32," sounds very much like "·-.___./ Absolute nothing. 
musical sophistication and artistry Much of the music being produced the work of Pink Floyd, with further and enters into their next cover ver­These three lines make up the bulk for those who take music seriously. today Is released strictly for radio connection made by the fact that the sion,"Born to Run." of the lyrics, but the song remains Hopefully, in the future, more bands play and vldt·o accompaniment. Few song is attached to a song called It takes great courage and confi· powerful and well-done. will strive for more serious, more In· of these songs play over three "Wish the Lads Were Here," alluding dencc to cover Bruce Springsteen Predictably, the band's greatest telligcnt musical composition. If minutes long, and most are exam­to the Floyd album Wtsh You Were on a first album, but Frankie is the success lies in their original work. that happens, we'll have Frankie ples of mindless self-indulgence. Here. In the songs "'Ibe Power of only band I can think of which Paying respect only to their own Goes to Hollywood to thank. 
Film bound to touch 'Places in the Heart' 



Tired of the old routine? 
Join 

The Features Department is accepting applications for: 
• Features copy editor 
For more lnfonnation contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313 
shows up at her door after the fu. 
neral to offer his services as a farm 
hand. 
In desperation, she hires him to help her raise a cotton crop · some­thing she's never done before · so she can pay for her property, in spite ofoverwhelming odds due to lack ofhelp and a very low price per bushel. In addition, she has taken in a boarder · the banker's brother, Will, a blind man · who carries a huge chip on his shoulder. In spite ofrecurring problems· a tornado, the Ku Klux Klan, labor shortage, unethical cotton buyers and competition from pickers from the South"· Mrs. Spaulding remains determined to raise the necessary cash to pay for her property. Naturally, everybody in the household becomes very closely­knit in this common effort, and eventually tlte incessant labor pays off. 
Basically, that's it. A simple, clear· cut plot with the typical theme (in this case, intense determination) that usually corresponds to movies encapsulating a particular era. However, "Places" says something for all ages of any era. 
True, the "determined woman" theme is older than Miss Scarlett's hoops. The racial issue is also inevi· table . after all, the only movie dealing with any era before 1970 that has a black/white cast without being racial is Disney's "Song of the South." 
Anyway, the themes in "Places" were by no means uncommon. We even have the usual love theme. It's present on a major scale, because eventually the racial prejudice is overcome by the Spaulding family · a rare thing in the 1930's. 

Romance was also evident on a minor scale, though personally_I felt it was unnecessary. Mrs. Spaulding's sister's husband is having an affair with a schoolteacher. 
Ofcourse, husband and wife eventually reconcile, forgive, and love each other again. Though it managed to avoid being boring, silly or stupid, it was fairly predictable and detached from the main storyline. 
What is important about the themes of"Piaces"is that they were realistic. Determination is some­thing we all can relate to, along with financial pressure, prejudice, goals, personal loss, family life, disappointment and togetherness. The fact that we can relate to many aspects of"Places" makes it a per­sonal, tender movie that we can feel for. 
Now is a good time to single out my one grievance about "Places." I'm almost hesitant to do so, be· cause this is a movie that moved me enough to call it "poignant" with­out being too afraid ofbeing laughed straight off campus. Besides, the acting on the part of the entire cast is quite commen­dable. (Field is brilliant · she even manages to fake a respectable Southern accent without stretching her syllables back like a slingshot and then letting go). 
Here I have testified to a good movie, a good plot, a good cast · and I'm about to register a complaint. It's about the children, Frank and Possum (a little girl, not a pet). They were cute enough, helpful enough, well-mannered enough and concerned enough about each other. That was the problem. 
These children were too good to be true. I was actually glad when little Frank accidentally scratched poor Will's story-record. I wanted some proof that Frank is a normal little boy. 
The best scene · mainly because ofits building intensity · was the onset of the tornado. It began with dark clouds looming on the horizon, but all of a sudden there was an incredible dust storm with a huge black tornado uprooting the entire town. It was a fairly frighten· ing, and, I thought, a very necessary scene. It helped to pick up the tempo and keep the audience on its toes. 
The final scene, I believe, Is worth mentioning, mainly because of the uncertain reactions it provokes. It is, briefly, a pastoral scene of the entire town taking communion in church. We see each individual successively, and the last two people we see are none other than Mr. Spaulding and the young man who accidentally shot him. Now, ifyou'll remember, Mr. Spaulding was killed. llte boy, because of the racial furor of the day, was murdered for his transgres­sion and his corpse then dragged behind a truck. But, here they both are, taking communion together and representing a common bond oflove, forgiveness, and accep­tance. Of course, these men weren't actually supposed to be regarded as physically in the church · they were shown purely for the sake of sym­bolism. It was, I felt, a beautiful and touching scene. 
"Places in the Heart" was signifi· cant, meaningful, well-written and believable, and I would recommend it to anyone. 


Shelli Camfield 
features staffwriter 
Movies 
F
~nall:r, I have seen a movie t~~t tnsptrcs me to say many postttve things ahout it and then feel as if I could say more. 

"Inc way to deal with this, I think, Is to go ahead and give you a brief idea of what "Places in the Heart" is all about. 
"Places" is a movie set In central Texa!l in 193'; ·the post-depression era. Sally Field plays Mrs. Spaulding, a woman who is widowed when her husband is shot by a young black man who is drunkenly playing with a pistol. Mrs. Spaulding, who has two young children, must find a way to finish paying for her home, rather than relinquish her property 
to the bank. She hires a homeless, 
wandering black man, who first 



Box Score 
Notre Dame 85, St. Francia 45 
Notre Dame (85) St. Francia (45) 
M FG-A FT·A R F p M FG-A FT-A Royal 22 2-3 2-2 9 3 6 Hamilton 35 5-10 3-4 Price 22 4-8 0-0 3 2 8 Sharkey 36 1-6 1-4 Barlow 27 7-12 2-2 11 3 16 Conway 34 2-6 0-0 Rivers 21 2-11 0-0 3 0 4 Jacobs 33 6-13 0-2 Hicks 27 5-8 3-7 2 2 13 lightning 25 1-6 2-4 Beeuwsaert 20 4-6 2-5 1 4 10 Ridgeway 6 1-1 1-3 Duff 16 1-1 2-2 1 3 4 Sisler 9 1-5 0-0 Peters 13 2-9 2-2 2 2 6 Koskinen 4 0-0 0-0 Voce 29 8-12 1-2 15 1 17 Dunatov 4 1-2 0-0 Newell 3 0-3 1-5 0 0 1 Cunningham 5 0-1 0-0 
200 35-73 15-27 47 20 85 Walters 9 1-2 0-1 
p 6 4 13 3 2 3 4 3 4 4 1 12 1 4 4 0 1 3 2 1 2 1 0 0 3 1 2 0 2 0 4 4 2 
R F 

-
FG Pet. .479. FT Pet. -.556. Team 200 19-52 7-18 28 23 45 rebounds -10. Turnovers -21. Assists-19 FG Pet. .365. FT Pet. -.389. Team (Duff 7). Technicals-none. rebounds -5. Turnovers -27. Assists -6 (Jacobs 3). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 38. St. Francis 22. Officials -Roger Parramore, John Carr, Art Willard (all MAC). A-10,633. 

Monday, December 3, 1984 -page 8 
Marino sets TD passing record 
Raiders down 12-1 Miami, 45-34 
Associated Press 
Dan Marino of Miami set a touch­down passing record Sunday, but Mike Haynes' two interceptions-one returned 97 yards for a touchdown ­and Marcus Allen's three TD runs led the Los Angeles Raiders to a 45-34 victory over the Dolphins. 
Marino went into the game sharing the National Football League record of 36 TD passes in a season with Y.A. Tittle and George Blanda. He came out ofit with 40 -and 470 yards passing in the game. 
He passed 4 yards toJimmy Cefalo late in the first period to break the record, combined with Mark Clayton on scoring passes covering 64 and 11 yards in the third and found Mark Duper on a 9-yarder in the fourth for No. 40. 
But Haynes' interceptions, Allen's 
Marc Wilson's scrambling touch­
down bomb defused the Dolphins. 
Wilson, avoiding a Miami rush, 
found Dokie Williams on a TD pass 
that covered 75 yards and put Los 
Angeles ahead to stay at 27-24. 
Marino started driving the Dol­
phins back, but Haynes intercepted 
him again and ran the ball back 54 
yards to the Miami 15. Three plays 
later, Allen scored his second touch­
down, from 6 yards out, giving LA a 
38-27lead. 
After Marino's toss to Duper 
trimmed the Raiders' lead to four 
points with 2:09 to go, Allen locked 
up the victory when he broke loose 
on a 56-yard run for the final TD 
with 1:43 remaining. 
It put the Raiders' record at 10-4 
and just about guaranteed the 
defending Super Bowl champs an 
American Conference playoff berth. 
Miami, 12-2, is tied with Seattle for 
the AFC's best record. 

The prize for each conference's 
top team is the home field in all 
playoff games. San Francisco locked that up in the National Conference Sunday with a 35-17 victory in At­lanta. 
In other games, Seattle crushed Detroit, 38-1 7; the Los Angeles Rams shelled New Orleans, 34-21; Kansas ,City upset Denver, 16-13; the New York Giants defeated the New York Jets, 20-10; Dallas ripped Philadel­phia, 26-10; St. Louis beat New En­gland, 33-10; Green Bay pounded Tampa Bay, 27-14; and Buffalo downed Indianapolis, 21-15. In two overtime games, Houston surprised Pittsburgh, 23-20, and Cincinnati edged Cleveland, 20-17. 
Tonight, Chicago visits San Diego. 
In Seattle, Dave Krieg threw a club-record five touchdown passes as the playoff-bound Seahawks took sole possession of first place in the AFC west with their eighth straight victory. 
Krieg, who completed 27 of 38 passes for 294 yards, had scoring passes of 13 and 3 yards to Steve Lar­gent and 4 yards to Daryl Turner in the first half, then added fourth­quarter TD passes of 51 yards to Turner and 5 yards to Mike Tice. 
Eric Dickerson of the Rams, con­tinuing his assault on 0.). simpson's single-season rushing record of 2,003 yards, ran for 149 yards against the visiting Saints to give him I, 781 yards. 
Dickerson ran 7 yards for one touchdown,JeffKemp and Henry El­lard teamed on scoring passes of 16 and 34 yards and LeRoy Irvin ran 51 yards with an interception ofa Rich­ard Todd pass for another TD as the Rams, 9-5, remained in the chase for an NFC wild card. 
San Francisco forced six Atlanta turnovers, turning two into touch­downs on Gary Johnson's 33-yard fumble return and Dana McLemore's 54-yard interception runback, as the 49ers put their record at 13-1. 
Joe Montana threw first-half TD passes covering 64 yards to Freddie Solomon and 6 yards to Dwight Clark as the 49ers won their ninth consecutive road game. Atlanta, 3­11, lost its eighth in a row. 
In Kansas City, Nick Lowery kicked fourth-quarter field goals of 46, 28 and 42 yards to lift the Chiefs past Denver as the Broncos' kicker, Rich Karlis, experienced a mirror­image replay of his last-second fail­ure of a week ago. 
After Lowery put the Chiefs ahead with 1:56 to play, the Broncos reached the Chiefs' 25-yard line and called on Karlis to kick the tying field goal with I 0 seconds left. But Karlis, who hit the right upright a week ago in a 27-24 loss to Seattle, hit the left upright this time. Denver, dueling with Seattle for the AFC west title, fell to 11-3. 
The Giants, in their first "road" game at Giants Stadium against their new co-tenants, the Jets, got touch­down runs by Rob Carpenter and Joe Morris to remain tied for first in the National Conference East. 
They are 9-5 with two games to go in the division, as are Washington, a 31-17 winner in Minnesota last Thursday night, and Dallas. If the Giants win their final two games against St. Louis and New Orleans, they will win the NFC East title regardless of what the Redskins and Cowboys do, based on their record in division games. 
The Giants built a 20-3 lead one play into the fourth period on the TD runs of 1 yards by Carpenter and 8 yards by Morris and Ali Haji­Shiekh's field goals of 48 and 30 yards before the Jets scored their only TD on Ken O'Brien's 32-yard pass to Lam Jones. O'Brien had the Jets on the move again, but with about four minutes to play, corner­back Mark Haynes intercepted him at the Giants' goal line to preserve the final victory margin. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. locatnl on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from<) a.m. until -t p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's offict'. located on the third floor of Haggar Collegl' Center, accepts classifieds from 12:,30 p.m. until .3 p.m.. Mon­day though· Friday. Deadline for next-day classifil'ds is .~ p.m. All classifit·ds must he prepaid. t'ither in pt'rson or hy mail. Charg<" is I 0 cents per five charac­





Classifieds 

ters erda . 
NOTICES 
··········---····························~··············· 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8887 
TYPING SERVICE at reasonable rates. Very proteesionally done on the latest IBM and XEROX word processing equip­ment. Please call 287-5157. Will deliver and pick up. Copying ller\lice also available. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
TYPING 
Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES 
2n-«145 
PICKUP AND OEUVERY 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-s534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. CALL: 287-5162. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST Light brown cashmere top coat at the Saint Mary's Senior Christmas Formal Friday N011. 30. May have been picked up by mistake since I have someone e1ses coat. Reward!! Please call Jack at 234­7327. 
LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH MIS­SOURI 10. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON SAT. PLEASE CONTACT 3085. 
I FOUND A NICE RING AT THE BARS THURS. 11/15. CALL ALAN AT3267TO IDENTIFY. 
............................................. 
Found: Khaki snap on hood with brown plad, wool lining on the lootball fielrl after Penn State game. Call MaH ]2n-6463 for return. 
Lost: Light twown casseHe case in or near D-2 student lot on 11 /19 I can identify contents of the case Please return. REWARD. C8111382 LOST: ONE GREEN 1.0. FOLDER WITH 1.0.. DETEX. PA LICENSE, AND MASTER CARD; ON MONDAY AT LUNCHTIME (EITHER IN NORTH DINING HALL OR EN ROUTE TO BADIN). IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL LEANNE AT x3622, OR BRING BY 232 BADIN HALL THANKS' 
LOST: ONE GREEN I.D. FOLDER WITH I.D., DETEX, PA LICENSE, AND MAS­TERCARD. THESE ITEMS OF EX­TREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE WERE QUITE STUPIDLY LOST ON MONDAY, NOV 25 AT LUNCHTIME IN C LINE OF NORTH DINING HALL, OR EN ROUTE TO BADIN HALL. IF FOUND, PLEASE, 
OH PLEASE CALL LEANNE MICHELLE AT X3622 OR COME BY 232 BADIN HALL. YOUR COMPLIANCE IS VERY MUCH APPRECIATED!! LOVE, LEANNE FELLIN. 
LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME BACKPACK IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL THE FRIDAY BEFORE THE PENN STATE GAME. IT HAS MY CALCULATOR, CAL­CULUS BOOK. AND TWO NOTEBOOKS. IF YOU MISTAKENLY PICKED IT UP, PLEASE CALL BETSY AT2804 
FOUND: MONEY, MONEY, MONEY! I uw you drop aome money on the floor outakle the cheml~ engl.-lng olllce In Fltzpetrick, but you dtup­pured Into aome IMI aomewhere and I couldn't lind you. I atiH have the money, ao 11 you -ntIt c.JI meet 1504 end c:lelm lt. I know what you look like 10 no need for gang8t..to 1:1111. 
FOUND: 1 HUMPTY DUMPTY STUFFED ANIMAL IN VERY POOR CONDITION,OUTSIDE PASO. EAST. LOOKS LOST AND BEWILDERED AND SEEKING OWNER IF HE'S YOURS CONTACT PATIY RILEY AT 4568. 
FOUND : BASKETBALL TICKETS CALL 1073 
Wanted. Armorer for University of Notre Dame varsity fencing team. Able to work with small tools and mechanically and electrically inclined. Please contact Mike DeCicco at 239-5585. 
DRIVE TO SEATILE FOR HOLIDAYS! I'VE GOT THE CAR. YOU SUPPLY DRIVER(S) AND GAS. FOR MORE IN­FORMATION, WRITE T. REID, 5015 36TH AVENUE, NE, SEATILE, WA 98105 OR CALL (206)524-4567. 
RIDE NEEDED: Need ride to Upstate New York ( Syracuse or Albany area ) can leave Wednesday Oecembar 19 at noon. Call Brendan at 2275. 
My friend and I need a ride to and from Pgh. for break. Can leave 12/19. Please call 232-2492 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: 
'72Skyla-k 
Body: Poor Engine: Good 
$500 or beet oller 
Jeff 288-2042 
for sale! 76'VW RABBIT great conditions for info call 1459 
MUST SELL!!! THREE-WAY PIONEER BOOKSHELF SPEAKERS 90 WPC. $90 CALLJIM2n-G191 
FOR SALE PIONEER STEREO RECEIVER SX450, 22WPC, GREAT CONO, STEAL AT $40 CALL JIM 2n­0191 
FOR SALE: NO JACKETS AND RUGBY SHIRTS. MAKE GREAT GIFTS. CALL JOEAT3100 
FOR SALE ONE-WAY AIRLINE TICKET FROM NY-LAGUARDIA TO S.BENO AIRPORT. JAN 13. ONLY $85!! CALL MAUREEN 2666 
TICKETS 
NEED MONEY FOR CHRISTMAS? SELL ME YOUR 2 lU-ND &-BALL GA TIX. PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 239­
5303. 

Need 41U tix.Stu or GA. tx kevin at 3457. 
MY DAD WILL PAY BIG$ FOR 2 TICK­ETS TO THE I.U. GAME. CALL TOM ­1587 
NEED 2 I.U. BASKETBALL TICKETS. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT m~9 
................................... 
I NEED two GA or student tix to the Indiana hoops game Paul2318 
I NEED INDIANA TIXS.272-6306 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
B3LC 
On the Flying Island of Laputa ... PAUL WILKINS is King! 
DECEMBER 111115 GRADUATES: REG­ISTER FOR SPRING SEMESTER IN­TERVIEWS FROM DECEMBER 3-7. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES, MEMORIAL UBRARY. 
SENIORS, SENIORS: HAND IN PROFILES FOR INVITATIONAL INTER· VIEWS FROM JAN. 28-FEB. 15 DURING WEEK OF DEC. 3. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD 
THE OBSERVER NEEDS SAINT MARY'S DAY EDITOR FOR M-W-F FOR NEXT SEMESTER. THIS IS A PAID PO­SITION. DONT MISS OUT!!! FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 239-5303. 
I FOUND YOUR MONEY Ill!!I I saw you drop some money outside the chemical engineering office in Fitzpatrick, but you disappeared into some lab some­where before I could find you. C8111504 to daim. 
O.K. Babes, 
You won this time. But, when you least expect it ... expect it. HA HA HA HA HA !!!! 
Mellon 

Mellon, will you stop puHing these stupid personals in all the time? 
Whatever happened to Patty Deutsch? 
To the St. Ed's seniors who I ran into be­tween Zahm and St. Ed's who told me to visit( this was Friday night before Thanks­giving) Who are you guys anyway and where do you live? Sincerely, the girt in the mini. 
TICKETS FOR THE SAT. DEC. 8 CON­CERT OF THE SOUTH BEND SYM­PHONY ARE NOW ON SALE AT NOTRE DAME'S LAFORTUNE STUDENT BOX OFFICE, ST. MARY'S O'LAUGHLIN AUO., AND AT -THE MORRIS CIVIC AUO. BOX OFFICE THE NIGHT OF THE CONCERT. THE CONCERT FEATURES THE SOUTH BEND SYMPHONIC CHOIR AND THE PERFORMANCE OF BETHOVEN'S SYMPHONY NO.9. TICK­ETS ARE $3 WITH STUDENT 1.0. 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1am 
································································ 
HIPPO BIRDIES TOME HIPPO BIRDIES TOME ONLY TRUSTWORTHY FOR ONE MORE YEAR 
······························································· 
Santa can't deliver my presents to Notre Dame so I NEED A RIDE TO NEW JER· SEY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. 11 you e~~n give me a ride cell Se..h et 1333. 
I've got a date with Santa for Christmas and I don't want to stand him up, so help me and the jolly old elf get together in St. Louis. If you can give me a ride there for Christmas breal< call Maureen at 1333. 
. and this day had such prom­ISe . . . until I got up. 
I'm only a sophomore and I'm already over $15,000 in debt. Every cent that I've earned in the last 3 years has been poured into tuition. I don't own a car, and can't even afford to drive. My parents, now divorced. have given me a total of $500 to cover your fabulous "family contribution". You keep telling me that I'm very quaiHied for financial aid; yet every year you've told me that there's not enough money left lo help me. So I do "work-study" for over 20 hours a week. My gradepoint suffers while I juggle 2 jobs and 15 credits.lgu-11 my-werean elum thet I would heve gotten aome money from you guys, huh? Why can't you make life a little fairer to those of us who work our $/'s off because we really want logo here ???? Love, A Oebted Domer 
Things were really starting to come to­
gether in my life... Then Gary Gutting had us read Nietzsche ... 
Hey, -h-you put lOcka In your 
rowing ahorta ... Juet the ume, -·re aorry you and your Ego were buay thla WMkend ••• So, when Clln our pill,_ lllnd? We're running out of fuel ... 
Hey y'all from Arkansas, how about a get together with fellow Arkansans? Call Anne at 1260 or Jill at 3687 for more info. 
BALLOON-0-GRAMS ON SALE AT X­MAS BAZAAR LEMANS LOBBY AT FINANCE CLUB BOOTH 
Public Notice On Wed.Nov .27th Erin"l will not order a pizza this semes­ter"Burke ,ordered and consumed( 1 /2 of)a small Wild Pizza . 
TAKE THE BUS!!! THE BUFFALO BUS! TAKE THE BUS!! Call Greg x4115 
BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS BIG BROT­HERS/BIG SISTERS BIG BROT­HERS/BIG SISTERS Chnstmas Party ­This Friday, 5:30 to 8:00, at Senior Bar 


The Observer Monday, December 3, 1984-page 9 
Freshman hockey players adjusting to faster college game 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
The 1984-85 Notre Dame hockey team has seven freshman in its lineup. And according to Irish head coach Charles "Lefty" Smidt, lhey have helped out tremendously in fil­ling spots lhat were in need ofhelp. 
Each of lhese freshmen has had to adjust to lhe faster, more physical pace of lhe college game. After !heir first eleven games !his season, lhey are beginning to make lhe adjust­ments, and a few of !hem are even playing major roles on lhe team. 
Tom Mooney is one newcomer who has made his impact felt in a very short time. He is currently the fifth leading scorer for lhe Irish, s<:oring eight times and dishing out seven assists, while holding down the center position on lhe first line. 
"Mooney has adjusted very well," says Smith. "He has the advantage of playing between two experienced seniors (Tim Reilly and Brent Chap­man), and, from the first day of practice, lhese three have blended well. Tom has great desire and Is a very gutty player. He has been a very pleasing performer." 
Mooney, himself, admits lhat he has had to learn a few lhings since he came to Notre Dame from his Pit­tsburgh, Pa., home. 
"College hockey Is much quicker and more physical man high school hockey," he says. "I'm still adjusting. My defensive game is my weakest spot. That is lhe one area ofmy game lhat I would like to improve on." 
While Mooney might be having some problems wilh his defensive play, !hough, it is his play on offense that lhe Irish really rely on. His out­standing skating and stick-handling abilities have made him a potent of­fensive threat, one !hat opposing teams will have to deal with for the next four years. 
Unlike Mooney, who joined lhe Irish as a center and has remained there, Mike McNeill has moved from one end of the ice to lhe olher, ser­ving both as a defenseman and for­ward !his year. He began the year as a forward before being moved to defense by Smith before the fifth game of lhe season. Now he finds himselfback at a forward position -a spot for which he seems well-suited. 
McNeill made it quite clear how well suited he is for his center posi­tion this past weekend against Alabama-Huntsville as he scored one 
ALL DECEMBER 1985 GRADS. 
REGISTER WITH CAREER AND PLACEMENT (lower Level, Memorial Library) for Spring Semester interviews 
Turn in profiles the week of December 3 tor lnvttot/Onollntervrews from Jon.28 to Feb.15 


vm­
PUTYOUR EXPERIENCE TO WORK FOR YOU. 
If you're a veteran, you have something very valuable-experi, ence. The Army is welcoming back experienced vets for possible leadership positions. 
You've already had the train­ing. Now put what you've learned back to work for you. Your skills and knowledge couiJbe very useful in tcxiay's Army. Talk to your Army Recruiter about your past­and future in the Army. 
Sgt. Jones 234-4187 

ARMY. 
QE AUYOU CAN BE. 
goal and added five assists. Four as­sists came in Friday's 1 0-4 victory and left him just one short of the Notre Dame record for assists in one game. 
"Switching Mike from forward to defense and back again has put a great deal of pressure on him," says Smith about the Soulh Bend native, "but Mike has outstanding hockey instincts and is great around the net. He has responded very well and, in the process, he has greatly helped our team." 
McNeill, despite his short stint on defense, has contributed a great deal around the opponents' net. Pres­ently, he stands fourth on the Irish scoring charts with six goals and ten assists. 
"The transition from forward to defense and back again was rough," admits McNeill. "I prefer to be at for­ward and I'm happy to be there now. Wllh each game, I feel I'm develop­ing more and more and am getting better and better." 
While Mooney and McNeill seem to have found their niche In the Notre Dame lineup, Pat Foley is still looking to find his. The St. Paul, Minn., native began the season as a d~fenseman, but got a chance to prove himself as an offensive player when he switched to wing for this weekend's series against Alabama­Huntsville. 

Foley admits that he has had some trouble adjusting to college hockey. 
"I had trouble getting the puck out of the defensive zone and with my defensive coverage," he ex­plains. 
Nevertheless, he is still happy to be playing for Smith. 
"The organization treats us all very well," he says. "Everyone has been given an opportunity to step right in. It's given us an invaluable chance to quickly gain experience." 
Foley is not the only one going through lhe usual freshman adjust· ment problems. Defenseman Frank O'Brien has also been struggling to settle comfortably into the Irish sys­tem. 
"Frank's an excellent skater who has been very much of a help to our team this season," says Smith. "Sometimes, however, he lets his emotions run wild. He needs to keep himself under greater control so we can keep him out of lhe penalty box and on the ice." 
O'Brien is well-aware that he still has some learning to do. 


Petal your 
Affection 
: CAMPUS VIEW : : APARTMENTS • 
•
• 

• NOW RENTING FOR 
•• • • FALL'85 • 

• reserve NOW I 
1: CALL 272-1441 : 


PIZZERIA AND PUB 
130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 

277-4519 
"I need to concentrate a lot more in the rink," admits the Albany, N.Y., native. "I don't feel that I've realized my full potential because I haven't concentrated enough." 
Lack of experience has kept cen­ter Mark AnquiUare from making major contributions at this early stage of his career, but this has not decreased lhe Connecticut native's enthusiasm. 
"It Is a great opportunity to learn from all of lhe experienced players here," says Anquillare. "I'm just glad I can be a part of the squad and con­tribute anything I can to our team's effort. 
"It's a totally different game from high school hockey, but Lefty is a good coach who has taught me a lot. I fee! I'm gradually getting better." 
Anquillare picked up his first col­legiate goal this weekend against Al­abama and he feels that now he will be able to play wilh more confi­dence. 
"It seemed like it took so long," said Anquillare. "I had chances, but just couldn't get It in the net. It's really a good feeling to know that I've finally been able to contribute to the team In a measurable way." 
Lance Patten, another defen­seman, is going through the same ad­justment as Anqulllare and the other freshmen. Once again, the improve­ment Is coming gradually to the newcomer, but the urge to contrib­ute has always been there. 
"The team Is really supportive of one another and It makes hockey a much easier game to play," says the Ontario resident. "This year I hope to stay In the lineup and contribute whatever I can to help our team win." 
The seventh newcomer to the Irish ranks is wing John Welsch, for whom enlhusiasm has never been a problem. In fact, he sometimes gets too excited, according to Smith. 
"John's a player of unbridled en­thusiasm," says Smith. "Our biggest problem is getting him to slow down." 
Being too enthusiastic is not a major weakness, however, so Welsch can be expected to see some action down the road. 
just eleven games have passed in !heir college careers, so It is highly likely !hat Irish hockey fans will be seeing a great deal of these seven skaters over the next four years. If lhey stay on their current path ofad­justment and maturity, the future could turn out to be very bright for Notre Dame . 



NBA Standings 
e.twn Conf--
Allllntlc Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pet.  Q8  
Boaton  t5  t  .938  
Philadelphia  t3  4  .765  2.5  
Washington  t2  7  .632  4.5  
N-Jeraey  8  9  .47t  7.5  
NewYOII<  8  t2  .400  9  
Centnll Dtvllllon  
Milwaukee  tt  8  .579  
Chicago  9  9  .1500  1.5  
Detroit  9  9  .500  1.5  
Atlanta  7  tO  .4t2  3  
Indiana  5  14  .263  6  
Cleveland  2  15  .tt8  8  
Weatwn Conf-- 
MlclwMI Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pet.  Q8  
Denver  t3  3  .813  
Houston  t2  6  .667  2  
Dallas  9  9  .500  5  
Utah  9  10  .474  5.5  
San Antonio  8  9  .47t  5.5  
KanaaaCity  3  t3  .188  tO  
PM:IIIc Dlvlelon  
L.A.WIIfll  t2  6  .667  
Phoenix  t2  6  .667  
Portland  t2  6  .667  
Seattle  7  tt  .389  5  
Golden State L.A. Clippn  6 6  12 t3  .:p:l .3t6  6 6.5  
Y•-y·a~tta  
Boeton 122. Cleveland 99  
Philadelphia 122. N-Jerwy t14  
Ch1cago at L. A. lakllf!l, (n)  



The Observer Monday, December 3, 1984-page 10 



NVA Fall Champions-
The following are the champions in NVA fall competition. 

Sport 

Men's Football Women's Football ~ Men's Soccer 16" Softball ~ Co-Rec Softball Co-Ree Innertube Water Polot Interhall Men's Tennis (Advanced) 
~ 
Interhall Men's Tennis (Novice) Interhall Women's Tennis Interhall Mixed Doubles Tennis

.. ~ 
Grad/Fac Men's Tennis

~ 
t 
Grad/Fac Women's Tennis Grad/Fac Mixed Dobies Tennis 
Outdoor Volleyball 
Grad/Fac Touch Football 
lnterhall Cross Country Biathalon 


Hockey 
continuedjrompage 12 
nice fakes to slip the puck into the net. 
With Mike Finn and Winston Walker serving double minors for the Chargers, Notre Dame made good use of its five-on-three advan­tage as it scored twice within 32 seconds. Chapman and Thebeau had the goals. McNeill assisted on both of the scores. 
Thebeau, Steve Ely and Tim Reilly 
Winner 
Stanford Farley Flanner Cubbies This Bud's For II Aquatic Acrobats John Ziebert Tony Kramer Valerie Demello Bevilacqua/Farabaugh Jim Riordan Nancy Wilder Kingma/Kingma Spiking Hodiends Ballinger's Bullies Morrissey TimBohdan 
accounted for the other three Irish goals in the first period. 
Nickodemus had the lone Notre Dame tally in the second period, while Finn and Dave Wallenstein scored for Alabama. Wallenstein also had the only Charger goal in the opening period. 
McNeill picked up his goal at 
11:05 ofthe third period. Greg Dun­can rounded out the Irish scoring at 
14:20. Finn had picked up the fourth Charger goal 28 seconds earlier. 
Saturday night the Irish almost forgot how beneficial it is to play the man. It took two quick Alabama 

Irish will face Mustangs 
At last, it's official: Notre Dame will face the Mustangs of SMU in the Aloha Bowl in Honolulu, Hawaii, on Dec. 29. Tickets for the game go on sale tomorrow at the ACC for all classes. 
Notre Dame's opponent was still in question until Saturday, when Houston got past Rice University, 38-26. No. 13 Texas, which had lost three ofits last four, was defeated, 3 7 ·12, by Texas A&M, and had the Cougars fallen to Rice, the Irish would have faced the Longhorns instead. 
Tickets will be on sale until Friday, Dec. 7, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. each day. Students may purchase one ticket per student ID and may present up to four ID's. Cost is S 15 per ticket, and checks may be made payable to Notre Dame Aloha Bowl. 
FINEART MAJORS ARE 
DRAWNTO DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
I 
~~~~ 
$1.00 off any pizza. $1.00 One coupon per pizza. 
Off Fast, Free Dellvery•u Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend Phone: 277-2151 
Expires in one week. 
JTC NA 119 2650 c 1984 Oomino·5 P1zza. Inc 
Runner-Up 
Sorin Pasquerilla East Off-Campus jesters Rio-Tin-Tin Slightly Moistened French Fry Tim Hasara John Wallace (tie) Louisa Demello Grojean/Moran (tie) Todd Kingma LouiseJoyner Phillips/Riordan Stanford East Thumpers 
John Ward 
goals to re-establish its importance to them. 
Finn had both goals for the Chargers with the first coming just 43 seconds into the contest. He hit again on a rebound at 5:22. 
A Chapman wrist shot from the left circle at 13:32 finally got Notre Dame on the board. Anquillare's rebound goal from a crowd in front of Friedman evened the score 2:25 later. 
Ely started the five-goal Irish barrage in the second period with his high shot over Friedman's left shoulder 23 seconds into the period. Thebeau added his first two goals, while Ricci and Reilly had the other Notre Dame scores. 
Thebeau then scored the lone goal of the final period. He com­pleted his hat trick at 16: 18 when his centering pass was deflected into the goal by Charger defenderJefflm­grund. 
"'­

NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS YOUR HOME _«\WAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available ... Winter semester... convenient ... spacious ... Laundry facilities ... plentiful parking ... superior maintenence ... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: 
(219) 234-6647 
Ihe =Obser:ver­
= 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following 
position: 
Assistant Production Managers 
Two positions available 
Responsible for: 
A. Inventory and supplies OR 
Es. Equipment maintenance 
Salaried position 
No experience necessary 
Stop in and see Chris for an interview by 5 p.m. Tuesday 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
He's been chased. thrown through a window. and arrested. Eddie Murphy is a Detroit cop on vacation in Beverly Hills. 
I ~ 
~ I~ I ~ I ~ 
~ 
~
I 
~
I 
~ 
~ ~ 


-------, 
~~~C3L~----------------------------------------·M•o•n•d•a•y•'-o.e.ce_m__ 3.,1_9_s_4 ..I
b.er__ ___.P.ag•e-l 
~~-~ -----~~.­
-----~ 

--~----~------~----­
Doonesbury 
Y{)(} 
MARK? 
~ 
Tank McNamara 
IB£'5 7H&Of/IL. AT7HI5HOIJROF7HE NIGHT, W/3 HAVf;A5MAU 8IfTf}£I.(Jff£J CAU-INAJJPIENC/3. 7Htr'ME £WI£, M~. WffA, C!Ji.. HARPIOOP, ANIJ 500£Gl!lNAMEP ' 

Garry Trudeau 
PRETTY MUCH. IF EP£11£ CAU5, TRY 70 KIZP THAIS HIM OFF J. IT? HOOV/3R. 
I 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds· 
Gef 11-1' CONGI<t;.S.S Ol= i~E UN~D ~IE'S TO BAIL 
()e.OJ'f 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
!JIP Ytf/.5£& HIM ? 
HOW WAS Ht -r !S 1(61}(€ JAM! OtP 
stu 1fE enmttr w€ 
KNOW ANO "ffl[?_I ·?. ) 

The origin of "dessert." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 31 Knee 59 Mild expletive 10 Scented old 
1 High mountain 32 Symington or 60 Unit of force style4 Entrances Erwin 61 Betrays 11 Piquant9 Snug 35 Electric and 62 Seine 12 Up to now 

13 Blind In gas companies 14 Tolerant falconry 39 Verily 21 Wood: pre!. 15 Of ancient 40 Sale condition 22 Liquid
Chinese 41 Pedestal container 16 To shelter support DOWN 25 Spot17-·mutuel 42 Mediterranean 1 Poisonous 26 Grimace 18 Upright or island snake 27 Place of exile 
grand 44 Quenched 2 Lover's-28 Networks of 

thirst 3 Inca land nerves 19 Musical sign 45 Coral isle 4 Seek 29 Blackbirds 20 Government 47 WWI plane ambitiously 31 Blast of wind 
worker 48 Hunted 5 Remove frost 32 Infirm 23 Hibernia criminals 33 Far: pre!. 24 Spruce 53 Beautiful girl 6 Cleopatra's 34 Second-hand 
25 Become visible 54 Literary effort maid 36 Vocations 28 Makeshift 55 Director Kazan 7 Prong 37 Mohammed· watercraft 57 Seed 8 Contemptuous anlsm 30 -goose integument 9 Units of gem 38 Flattered(gannet) 58 Broil 
weight fawningly 

Campus 
•9:30 
a.m. · 4:30 p.m. · UNICEF Annual Christmas Sale, Memorial Library Lobby, Sponsored by Ladies ofNotre Dame and St. Mary's. 

•10 
a.m.· 5 p.m.· Christmas Bazaar, LeMans Hall Lobby (SMC), Sponsored by SMC Student Govern­ment, Free. 

•12: 
I 5 · I: I 5 p.m. -Econ. Dept. Development Workshop, "Institute for World Economy and Hungary East-South Relations," Dr. Istvan Dobozi. Head of Third World Studies, Hungarian Academy ofSciences, I .3 I Decio Hall. 

•3:30 
p.m.-English Dept. Faculy Seminar Se­ries , "Robert Creeley," Prof. Stephen Fredman, ND, Hayes Healy Board Room. 

•3:30 
-4:30 p.m. -Labor Research Group Workshop, "Worker/Management Relations in Hungary," Dr. Istvan Dobozi, Sponsored by Econ. Dept., Kellogg Institute & O'Neill Chair in Educa· tion for Justice, 131 Declo Hall. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "A Growth Strategy's Im­perative," Philip Lewis, Jr., University of Wisconsin, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•5 
p.m.-Informal Dinner, For Those Interested in NO Women's Caucus, Cornucopia Restaurant, Meet at Library at 4:45, Sponsored by ND Women's Caucus. 

•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, Senior Bar. 

•6 
p.m. -Presentation of The Mexican, I I 0 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Foreign Study Pro­grams., 

•6:45 
& 9:15p.m.-Monday Night FUm Series I, "Clockwork Orange," Annen berg Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m.-FUm, "Floating Weeds," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Comm. and Theatre Dept. Free. 

•7 
p.m. · AIESEC Meeting, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation of LaFamille d'accueil, Little Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by Foreign Study Angers Program. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 CCE. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Edward Albee, Playwright, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•8:30 
p.m. · Lecture, "Socialist Countries & the New International Economic Order," Dr. Istvan Dobozi. 



©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
42 Moving 
readily 43 Every 44 Irresistible 
influences 45 Act of mimicking 46 Shroud of ­
47 Fishhook attachment 
49 Heart 
50 Satanic 
51 Verve 

52 King's address 
53 Launch­
56 Pismire 


• The S.A.B. Ideas & Issues Committee presents: 
Playwright Edward Albee 
Author of"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf "and "Zoo Story" 
will be speaking in Washington Hall Monday, December 3rd, 8:00p.m. 
on 
• 
"The Playwright Versus the Theatre" 
• T

r • • • • 

NEEDED: 
ANY STUDENT INTERESTED in the position of: *business manager 
* publicityI marketing director for second semester For: Cultural Arts Commission Student Activities Board 
Call:239-7757 or283-1274 


Monday, December 3, 1984 -page 12
SRorts 
Depleted Irish run past St. Francis, 85-45, as freshmen lead the attack 
By LARRY BURKE on Nov. 15, and John Bowen, who contests, a statistic that had not gone Sports Writer suffered a head injury against unnoticed by Phelps. Northwestern, things could have "We knew that they were a high­
St. Francis Head Coach Kevin been a lot worse for Porter and com­scoring team," said Phelps. Porter had the idea that if he could pany. "'They've got some good people and slow things down a little by having Notre Dame jumped out to a 10-2 we were concerned about that. his team run less than it usually does, lead after six minutes, but St. Francis They're not a bad team, it's just that then he might be able to keep Notre cut it to 18-16 with nine minutes to we played very well. Dame under control in Saturday's go in the first half At that point Irish "Any time you're without game. But slowdown or no slow­Coach Digger Phelps made a couple Kempton and Dolan, you worry. We down, the Irish had an easy time of key substitutions. First he sent in were also without John Bowen, so with the Red Flash, winning, 85-45, Voce, then he inserted senior point we had to adjust. That means that to raise their record to 3-0. guard Dan Duff. The reserves pro­some other players got some more 
"We were trying.not to run," said vided the necessary spark, as the playing time. I was impressed with Porter, "but we would have been Irish outscored the Red Flash, 12-0, Voce; he was the most valuable better off if we had gotten Notre over the next four minutes and took player as far as I'm concerned. I also Dame into a transition game. We control ofthe game. Voce had seven think Beeuwsaert did a lot of good really wanted to run -we were 15th points in that span and Duff chipped things. And Duff came off the bench in the nation in scoring last season. in with two points and two assists. well and added to that aggressive We'll go back to the running game The Irish led, 38-22, at the half, play that we'll need next week." after this. and put the game on ice by going on Next week features two impor­
"It was a mistake not to get into a 19-0 tear early in the second half. tant games -Indiana at the ACC the transition game against Notre During that spurt, St. Francis failed Tuesday night and DePaul in Dame, especially when we saw that to score a point for nearly seven Chicago Saturday afternoon. Notre (Dave) Rivers wasn't hurting us that minutes. Dame most likely will have all three much." "Notre Dame is the toughest team injured players back in time for the 
It was a long afternoon for Porter we've played so far this season," said Indiana contest. and his Red Flash, as they were vic­Porter, who saw his team drop to 0-IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame is tims of a potent offensive attack led 3. "Our strategy was to let them beat now a perfect 9-0 in the series with by freshman Gary Voce ( 1 7 points), us with perimeter shooting if they St. Francis, all nine wins coming at junior Ken Barlow ( 16 points), could, and Barlow, in particular, the ACC .... The last time the Irish sophomore Scott Hicks ( 13 points) shot well from the outside. We're opened a season 3-0 was in 1979-80, and freshman Matt Beeuwsaert ( 1 0 too small to compete against a team when they won their first seven points). But considering the Irish like Notre Dame." games before losing to Kentucky .... were playing without the services of Jeff Hamilton moved into eighth Tim Kempton, who was out with a The total of 45 points was far place on the St. Francis career leg injury,Jim Dolan, who suffered a below St. Francis' average of 86 scoring list with his team-high 13 bruised shoulder against Zadar Club points per game over the first two points. 

ND finds consistency in sweep of Alabama-Huntsville 
By ED DOMANSKY Friday night Notre Dame tallied do for a long time. Namely, they notched their first collegiate goals in Once again the rough play led to Sports Writer seven times in the first period to take learned that by playing the man in­the series. For one, however, it was a its share of penalties. A total of 57 a 7-1 lead at the intermission. The stead of the puck, they can keep the bit more special. penalties were called in the series. The Notre Dame hockey team seven goals were just one short of other team's offense from effectively Senior defenseman Rob Ricci has Twenty-eight ofthe infractions were seems to have finally found what it the Notre Dame record for goals in a penetrating into the Notre Dame waited 86 games to see one of his whistled against the Irish. The most takes to play solid, consistent period. end. The Irish also controlled the shots turn on the red light. But at the noticeable incident occured at hockey. And it couldn't have come Freshman Mike McNeill also puck quite well at both ends of the 11:13 markofSaturday'ssecondper­14:48 ofthe second period on Satur­at a better time. nearly put his name in the Notre rink. iod, Ricci's waiting ended. Breaking day when Ricci of Notre Dame and 
Friday and Saturday nights at the Dame record book on Friday. His "I was extremely pleased with the toward the Alabama goal he took a Frank Heller of Alabama were given ACC the Irish were able to enjoy the four first-period assists left him just way our defensemen stepped up the pass from Tom Mooney and directed game disqualification penalties for sweet taste ofrevenge as they swept one short of the Irish assist record play and didn't let them come all the the puck past goalie Barry Friedman fighting. the Chargers from Alabama­(5) for one game held by Tom Mic­way into our zone," said Smith. for the historic moment. The goal Tim Lukenda turned away 21 Hunstville by scores of 10-4 and 8-4. halek, Jack Brownschidle and Steve "Another key was our ability to gave the Irish a 5-4 lead and proved shots on Friday and another 24 on The Irish have now won three Curry. McNeill also added a goal to move the puck and the kids did it to be the game-winner. Saturday to record the triumphs. For straight and improved their record the Irish cause. very well." "I've been waiting a long time for the Chargers, Steve Moerner and to 5-6. Alabama is 5-5. "Before the game I broke both Saturday the two teams left the ice this moment," said an elated Ricci. Barry Friedman combined to stop 
After taking both games of last skate laces and I figured only bad knotted at 2-2 after the opening per­"Even when I wake up in the mor­23 Irish shots Friday. Friedman then year's series in Huntsville, the luck was going to follow," said iod. But the Irish broke it open in the ning I probably won't believe it actu­made 27 saves on Saturday. Chargers arrived at Notre Dame a bit McNeill. "It certainly was nice to go second stanza as they connected five ally happened." On Friday, the Irish didn't wait overconfident. But the Irish out and have a good game." times to take a 7-4 lead. Co-captain Sophomore John Nickodemus long to get the scoring started. Co­promptly showed their guests what Both nights the Irish finally made Bob Thebeau paced Notre Dame made the varsity scoring list for the captain Brent Chapman scored the can happen when overconfidence use of something that head coach with three goals and an assist. first time with his wrist shot at 9:45 first ofhis two goals just 47 seconds abounds. Lefty Smith has been after them to Three Notre Dame players of the second period on Friday. into the game. Thirty-seven seconds 
Freshman Mark Anquillare then later, Steve Whitmore then took a 
joined the scoring 'ranks as he long pass from McNeill, raced in 
banged home a rebound late in the alone on Moerner and used several 
first period on Saturday to tie the 
see HOCKEY, page 10 
score at 2-2. 



ND women's basketball splits two over weekend 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team split a pair of road games this weekend, beating Eastern Michigan, 70·59, on Friday before dropping a 75-64 decision to Michigan yesterday. The Irish record is now 1-3. 
In the Michigan game, Mary DiStanislao's squad was victimized by the blistering second-half shooting of the Wolverines who made 2 3 oftheir 31 shots in the half to wipe out a 30-25 Notre Dame halftime lead. Despite Carrie Bates' 22 points and 1 5 more from Trena Keys, the Irish were unable to stop the Michigan offense from putting the game out ofreach. 
Things went better for Notre Dame on Friday when the team travelled to Ypsilanti, Mich., to take on the Hurons. With Keys scoring a career-high 24 points and Lavetta Willis pulling down a career-high 13 rebounds, the Irish were able to overcome a 36-35 EMU halftime lead and go on to win their first game of the season. 
More details on the weekend and a preview ofWednesday's game with Western Michigan in the ACC will appear in tomorrow's paper. 
Notre Dame senior defenseman Rob Ricci (4) and Alabama-Hunstvtlle's Frank Heller were dis· qualified from Saturday's game between the Irish and the Chargers after this brawl at the 14.48 mark 






