------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Dogs page6 

Bahatnas University verifies trip being 

Ruppe will speak 
organized 


at commencement 
honorary degrees, and they are:
By DAN McCULLOUGH

for Fall '84 
News Editor •Michel Boudart, who will receive a By TERRY BLAND 
doctor of engineering dt·gree. The University confirmed during Boudart is the Keck professor of
StaffReporter 
the weekend that Peace Corps chemical engineering at Stanti.>rd Director Loret Ruppe will deliver
A trip to the Bahamas during fall llniversity and an authority on break next year is being planned as 
the May 20 commencement address cht·mical catalysis. He is a native of to Notre Dame's class of 1984. Nine Brusseb. Belgium. and was educatedan alternative to the senior class trip to New Orleans, said Mark Yusko, a persons will receive honorary at the llnivcrsity of l.ouvain and at 
degrees along with Ruppe. Princeton llniversity. lie headt·d the The Obsen,er reported April 3 that Stanti.>nl engineering department 
coordinator of the alternative trip. 
The journey to the Bahamas was Ruppe would be the main speaker. from 197<; to 1978.
the idea of juniors Mark Yusko and but officials from the llniversity
Lauric Meritt. "'One day we were •Monsignor John Egan. who will talking in class and we decided we 
refused to confirm or deny this receive a doctor of laws degree. report. Sources in Ruppe's office. Egan is the founder of the nation's
wanted to go to the Bahamas," said however, did verify the news on that urban ministry movement and cur­
Yusko. "We thought if we put to­day. rently director of human relations
gether a trip, we could get a bunch Chrysler Chairman of the Board and ecumenism for the Archdiocese
ofpeople to go." Lee Iacocca received an invitation 10 of Chicago. He was director of the
"'About ten or twelve really close give the commencement address Archdiocese's Cana Conference
fric:nds were going with us anyway," said Yusko. Presently, there are 
from llniversity President Father from 1947 to 1958 and director of about 40 to 50 people who have 
Theodore Hesburgh, but had to the Archdiocesan Office ofllrban Af­refuse because of a conflict in his fairs fro 1958 to 1969. Ht· came toshown a verbal interest in going to schedule, according to Sally Hock, Notre DanK in I 970 and was namedthe Bahamas, he said. "'Depending 
on how many people sign up, we secretary to Iaccoca's Vice President special assistant to President lies­for Public Affairs james Tolley. burgh, and director of the Institute
might open the trip up to other stu­"He gets so many invitations," said for Pastoral and Social Ministry. lie
dents besides the senior class." Hock. "He gets several hundred a resigned that post last year to return
The trip is being arranged through month." Iaccoca received l-Ies­to Chicago.

First Source Travel, the agency that planned the excursion to the 
burgh's letter on Feb. I 5 and •Dr. Jorge Prieto. who will receive a declined on March 19. doctor of laws degree. Prieto isBahamas last year. "Bill McDonald, Ruppe had previously agreed to chairman of family practice at
the coordinator of the senior class speak on the same day, May 20, at Chicago's Cook County Hospital. He
trip to New Orleans, said that as long 
the commencement ceremonies of 
has snved as a consultant to sevt·ral

as we didn't use the name 'senior Albertis Magnis College. a groups, from the llnited States
class trip,' that there would be no Dominican college in New Haven, Senate to the American Catholic bis­
problem in scheduling a trip to the Conn. Robert Buccino, vice presi­hops.
Bahamas," Yusko said. "The probable cost ofthe trip will 
dent ofadvancement for the college •Claire Randall, who will rccciv.e a be about $478," stated Yusko. said, "Ruppe had accepted and has doctor of laws degree:. Randall has declined. She said she was unable to been general secretary of the Na­
However, the price could vary, attend." Melinda Roper, president of tional Council ofChurches ofChrist

depending on how many students actually take the trip. There will be a 
the Maryknoll sisters will give the for the past ten years. Randall, a Pres­May 20 address instead. byterian, came to tht· post, one of see TRIP, page 3 Commenting on her address, the highest in American Protestan­Ruppe told The OhsenJer, 
tism to be held hy a woman, from a "Personally, I have always felt a closeness to Notre Dame. My father, 

Nuclear expert criticizes Reagan 
Fred Miller, was captain of the 1928 football team that won one for the Gipper. Also, my brother, Fred, was a junior at Notre Dame when he and Dad were killed in a plane crash on their way to South Bend. Also, Peace 


foreign policies, calls for freeze 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN living standards, foreign relations, tended to demonstrate the serious­
Corps and Notre Dame h_ave very

News Staff and our standing in the world." ness of U.S. intent. Actually, he 
strong ties. Almost 400 graduatesThe resulting burden ofincreased explained, "The Soviets have con­have served in the Peace Corps and Possible solutions to the escalat­military spending has hindered com­cluded that the U.S. is attempting to the University was one of our first 

ing problem of the lJ.S.-Soviet arms mercial innovation and damaged the force them to make a deal on their training facilities." 
race were presented by defense and social institutions of health care, terms and will continue to build up." foreign policy expert Richard). Bar­housing, and social security because The result, he added, is "more Ruppe's father played football un­net last night to an enthusiastic of the government's objective of weapons aimed at us." der Fighting Irish Head Coach Knutc crowd in the Memorial Library maintaining a level of arms com­He sees a return to the basics of Rockne in 1927, 1928 and 1929. 
Loret Ruppe.

Auditorium. Barnet's appearance petitive with the Soviet Union, Bar­foreign policy as a possible solution, Ruppe attended Marymount College was sponsored by the nuclear net stated. suggesting diplomacy .must create in Tarrytown, N.Y., and Marquette career with Church Women United. awareness group Ground Zero. Changes in the international "positive relationships with other University, with a concentration in She is a member of the Joint 
scene have also contributed to the nations and the basis for a world in history and education. Her husband, Working Group that deals with Introduced by Mike Brennan of present position of the U.S., Barnet which we can feel secure." The two Philip Ruppe, served six terms in relationships between the World Ground Zero as a man whose work explained. Military technology is superpowers must agree to a Congress from Michigan before Council of Churches and the Cath­"sparked my consciousness," Barnet increasingly sophisticated and nuclear freeze by realizing there ts retiring in 1979. olic Church. addressed the problem of the arms precise in all quarters. In addition, "no good time to freeze, but the best Ruppe will be the first woman to •Frank Sullivan, who will receive a race and its effects on U.S. domestic several new powers have entered time is now." Eventually, he hopes address Notre Dame graduates since doctor of laws degree. Sullivan is a 
and foreign policy. He described the competitive international for a treaty to stop further testing Rosemary Park, professor emerita of former South Bend insurance ex­problems the U.S. now faces in theatre with the two superpowers, and production of new weapons. education at the University of ecutive who is now president of foreign and defense policy, citing the United States and the Soviet lJni­California at Los Angeles, spoke to Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Com­nationally-supported Central on. "It's not a two-man game Barnet, a graduate of Harvard Law the 1974 graduating class. pany in Newark. N.J. He is a 1949 
anymore," he commented. "It's an

American conflicts, a spiraling arms School, is a Senior Fellow and former Ruppe was chairwoman of the Notre Dame graduate and is chair­budget, and escalating U.S.-Soviet extravaganza with lots of players." co-director of the Institute for 1980 Bush for President campaign man the of Public Relations, Alumni 
tension as examples. He also pointed Thus, both nations have increasingly Policy Studies, an independent committee in Michigan and later co­Affairs and Development Commit­to domestic crises, such as the rise in less control over world events today research center devoted to the chaired the r..eagan-Bush Michigan tee of Notre Dame's Board of Trus­the infant mortality rate and the than they did in the first decade after study of public policy questions campaign committee. She was ap­tees. crumbling social security system. World War II. which he helped to found in 1963. pointed director of the Peace Corps •Victor Weisskopf, who will receive Quoting President Reagan, he con­During the Kennedy administration, by Reagan on Feb. 14, 1981. a doctor of science degree. Wds­cluded, "We are standing tall,'' but, Barnet criticized U.S. policy as he was an official ofthe State Depart­Ruppe has been criticized lately in skopf is professor emeritus of he addetl, "'on a floor that is caving misguided in its attempts at com­ment and the Arms Control and Dis­the Washington press for liberaliz­physics at the Massachusetts In­in." municating with Soviets about arms armament Agency and a consultant ing the abortion policies of the stitute ofTechnology. He was part of 
Barnet attributes the general U.S. control. He cited the Reagan ad­to the Department of Defense. He Peace Corps and for tape-recording the Los Alamos team that worked on decline to a nation "starting down ministration's policy of forcing also served in the Army as an inter-private conversations with her the atom bomb. In 1976 he was ap­the path ofan arms race. The process Soviets towards arms control deputy, Edward Curran. 
see RUPPE, page 5

has kd to a reduction in national negotiation by arms buildups in-see BARNET, page 3 Nin~ other persons will receive 



The Observer Monday, April 16, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan said yesterday he is 
resigning as vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee to protest what he called a breach oftrust by the Reagan administration over its Ct.·ntral American policy. The New York Democrat said in a statemt.·nt that his resignation is "the most emphatic way I can exprt.·ss my view that the Senate committee was not properly briefed on tht.· mining of Nicaraguan harbors with American mines from an Amt.·rican ship under American command." "If this action was im· portant t.•nough ti>r the president to have approved it in February, it was important enough for the committee to have been informed in Fehruary," he said. Moynihan made his announcement in an inter· view on ABC news' "This Wt.·ek with David Brinkley." His office later rdeascd a statt.·mcnt elaborating on tht· announcement. -AP 
Nine Klansmen and American Nazis 
were tillllld innocent yesterday ofconspiring to disrupt a 1979 anti­Klan rally in Greensboro in which five communist demonstrators wt·rt.· killt.-d. The all-white jury also ac4uitted five defendants of ac­tual civil rights violations stemming from the deaths. Two of the ddendants wen~ also ac4uitted ofconspiring to intimidate witnesses after the 1.:onfrontation. Prosecutors contended the nine men, fired hy racist fervor, plotted to provoke a fight at the rally and to disrupt it bt'Caust.· it was integrated. Defense lawyers said the defendants went to the rally only for a peaceful protest against communism and were attacked. Tht.· vndict came after the jury twice on Sunday asked the judge to clarify a point of law in count 14, which charged that Grifin and Dawson conspired to prevent witnesses from talking to federal 
agents.-AP 
Moslem militiamen rescued a kidnapped 
American prokssor and a French engineer yesterday who had been held captive for two months. Looking dazed and weary, SO-year-old Frank Regier, head of the electrical engineering department at American University of Bdrut, told a news conference he did not know who his captors were. Regier and .~6-year-old French engineer Christian Joubert, both unshaven and in red and white pajamas, ap· peart.·d at a news conference with li.S. Ambassador Reginald Bar tholomcw an hour after the rescue. Regier declint.·d to say how ht was freed, reporting only that Shiite Moslem Amal militiamen hao used force to free him and he heard only one gunshot. -AP 

Of Interest 
Cash prizes are being awarded in a photo contest sponsored by the Student Activities Board for the 1984-1985 calen­dar planning book. Students can get an application for it at the Om­budsman desk, on the first floor of LaFortune. The deadline for returning applications is May 4. Winning photos will appear in the Notre Dame 1984-85 calendar planning book. -The Obseroer 
Sophomore class T-shirts will be on sale today 
and tomorl'ow during dinner hours in both dining halls. The-shKts cost S I 0 each. -The Observer 
The birth ofthe Bard,April 24, is being celebrated this year with a Shakespeare Reading Marathon. All the quad, the new mall that is, will become a stage when a non-stop, oral reading of the plays and poems of William Shakespeare will commemorate Shakespeare's 420th birthday from midnight April 24 to sunset April 
29. The Shakespeare Club is looking for the support of the Notre Dame community to make this event a success. Everyone is needed to come, read and contribute. To go the distance of 100 hours or more, the club needs high profile people and groups to generate interest in the marathon. The Shakespeare marathon will also serve as a fund raiser for the family ofAdam Milani, the incoming freshman who was injured in a hockey accident in December and is now paralyzed from the chest down. Milani is the son oftmsiness profes­sor Ken Milani. Donations will he collected at the reading to help defray Milani's medical and rehabilitation expenses. -The Observer 



Weather · 
More squishy shoes! ..,o percent 
chance of rain Monday. Very cool with highs in the mid 40s. A SO percent chance of light rain Monday night. Low in low to mid 30s. Mostly cloudy Tues­day. Breezy and cold with a chance of light rain. II ighs in mid -lOs. -,tP 

The Observer 
The Ob•erver ( t·~~ ~99 l··tOOO) ;, 
puhli~hc..·d \1o1u..IJy throu~h 1:riday Jnd 
on honu: foothall Saturday!'~. t.'X(.Tpt 
durinK c:xam Jnd vacation pc:riod!'o lbe 
Ohservt.·r b puhli!'!.hnl h} tht· Mutknt!'l of 
fhc: I nhrtTMf)' of' NtJfn: Dame ~md .'-!aim 
Mary·.., ( .ollc.:Kt.' ~uh!'oc..·riplion~ may ht.· 
pun..'ha!'onl lor S.?c; pc.·r )'l"ar ( S I 'i per 
o,.t·mc.·Mc..·r) hy writtnK The Ohservc:r. 
P ( ). 1\ox (}. Notn· Dame.·. lnlliana -t6'i'iCl 
The Ohsen-c:r l!'o a nll"mhc..:r ofThe A!tt· 
st>dated Pres~. All rc:produc.:tion right!'. 
art· rc.·~c:rvt.·d. 

L.:....:........c_..;....;.........___.._.......__________ 
.·.. 


·· · , 


Today's is!'tuc..· wa~ producc:d by: 
/Jesi~ll Editor. . ................. Troy Illig /Jesil{n ..tssl.'iltllll .............. Paul /.t(J'OII/ Stajf... ....... Chl·ryl, Kathy, Claire 1}'/}('St!ll<'rs.. .. . . .................. . ........ Ted ."ilutma11 ...................................Su:vc: Foslc:J /\h•u's l:'tlilor...... .. ............ Tom Mowle 
CofJJ' l!tfilor.. ..............................Julk Smirh .\fl"rts CofJt• /:'t/1/or .... ............ Ed Konrad) Featun•s CfJp)' t:(li/or .. ........... Mary lic:aly Ft•atures /.(~}'out... .......... Liz Carrol /1'/J fhiJ' l:'tfitor.. .......................... Earlllakcr .\MC IJm• l:'tlifor .......................jody Radler Ad 0<'.<1!(11 . .................. .\lary Beth Porrer Pboroxr·apber ............ Thorn Bradley 
·..·........' ..... ·. ·, '· , , , ~ 



Student Regent needs input 
Saint Mary's Board of Regents was on campus this past weekend. They have come at this time and in Oc­tober every year since 1972, when the board was formed. 
Most students recognize their faces from photographs hanging in LcMans Hall. Of all the name· less faces which stare students down each day to and from classes there is one all Saint Mary's students should recognize: the student Regent. This year it is Katie Whelahan, a senior government major. She is just one of 30, hut nonetheless has full voting privileges as a mem­ber ofthe board. 
There has been a student Regent as long as there has been a board, and she serves on the Committee of Stu­dent Life as well as attending other committees to which all members arc invited. The student Regent docs not just sit in meetings as a token student; she has input like other Regents, and the impact ofone vote. 
When the hoard convened on Saturday morning, members discussed issues 
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 

because few know that a student Regent exists, let alone who she is. In fact, Whelahan is not the only student who serves on various committees of the board. There is a student who serves on the Committee for Development, Tracey Paunicka, and one on the Committee of Finance and Budget, Mary Ann Potter. There are two additional stu­dents besides Whdahan who serve on the Committee on Student Life. 
Students could be more involved ifonly they knew of the potential to be involved. That would tie nice to know since the Regents 
have final say on majorrelevant to the lives of Saint Mary's students, among 
changes at the College. other College issues. The 
Changes in the parietal sys­Committee on Student Life, 
tem made last year were ap­of which the student Regent 
proved by the board. They is a member, discusses the 
also have the final word on Catholic character of the 
who is tenured, and don't College. When they try to 
think that professors won't find ways to combine social 
affect students' lives beyond justice with Christian ideals, 
college. the student Regent takes 
More important is that the part in discussion, and as a 
Regents generally take the student, is also the subject of 
student Regent's words to he indicative of all Saint
discussion. However, Whelahan said 
Mary's students. For most of in a recent interview, the 
the Regents who arc on campus only twice a year for
Regents "are concerned about us; they are not trying 
four days, when do they get 
to run our lives. They arc in­terested in what the stu­dents have to say."lfthis is true, students' views should he communicated to the Regents as a vital part of the process. Can one student fully represent almost 1,900 students when many of those are not even ~1ware that a student Regent exists? 
It is important that students of the College have an impact on the policies which Regents make since the students themselves must adhere to those policies during their college years. While a student Regent with one vote is one vote which the students of Notre Dame don't have on their Board ofTrustees, it is only effective ifstudents' views are accurately represented. 
Whelahan has been involved during her four years at Saint Mary's, not just involved, but diversely involved. While she has acquired different perspectives from her involvement with students, she cannot know all view­points unless students come to her with their opinions. The problem is few do come to her with their views 

the opportunity to talk with 
students? Holy Cross Hall's open house for the Regents last Friday was one of the few times Regents had an opportunity to see who is affected by their decisions. Because of this, the student Regent becomes the link between the policymakers and the the students. 
The College should take the effort to make the stu­dent Regent more visible and available to students so that she doesn't become a token representative. 
Nominations for nextyear's student Regent were ac­cepted during this session ofthe Board. Student govern­ment, faculty and the student Regent submit nominations. How about granting nominating powers to those who will most benefit from the representative? 
The views expressed in the Inside column are rhe views ofthe author, and do not neces­~ly reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
.....r ~ ,. }f.•· • , , 

The Observer ( 

AP Photo

Last in Space 
The Space Shuttle crewformed their own repair company during last week's rescue and repairofthe SolarMax satellite. The satellite is reported to be working perfectly now. Encouraged by this 
·J success, NASA is considering attempting to recover the two com· munications satellites lost during the last mission because of
1 
faulty booster rockets.
1 
r •• ut, 9'/uft :lt'm• fiJ.U~ 
$5 Haircuts A UNISEX SALON (WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPu s-OO)
EDISON RD. AT 23 277 57 

r Corby'sl 
MONDAY SPECIALS 3-3a.m. Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 



:JI•••• 
"Irish" Draft Pitchers $2 

Bartend~rs 
Sign-up May 5 "C8rlSy Open" Golf Tourney

Needed! 
..· 
DOES YOUR GROUP 

NEED MONEY? 

~~J~The StudentActivities Board 
"bMovie Lottery for next year 

is Apri125 
Applications available on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune 
Deadline: April 24 • 
• • • • =; 


Monday, April 16, 1984 -page 3 

Lyons and Morrissey renovations among planned campus changes 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
StaffReporter 
N~w faculty offic~s. a park next to O'Shaugn~ssy and a swimming pool ar~ among numerous additions, renovations, and changes plann~d for next semester. Th~ changes, however, "won't b~ as dramatic as last y~ar," said Physical Plant Dir~c­tor Don D~drick. 
Construction of the new faculty office building is almost compkt~d. and teach~rs should b~gin moving in today. Th~ building will b~ "fully oc­cupied and operational by fall," said D~drick. Roads and sidewalks will be pav~d and shrubbery will be planted ncar the building ov~r th~ 
summer. 
Two dorms will undergo g~n~ral renovation this summ~r. Plumbing in Lyons and Morrissey Halls will be completely redone. New sinks, showers, and pip~ syst~ms will b~ in­stall~d throughout both buildings. Walls will be repainted and stair­w~lls will be r~pair~d. "The stair­ways will be made safer," commented D~drick. "Also, Farley Hall will have its electrical sysr~m revamped." 
Th~ Notre Dam~ Physical Plant has hired contractors to begin con­struction of an Animal Research Center behind the Galvin Life Sciences Building. "We hope to have it closed in by wint~r." stated 
Dedrick. "It should b~ a very nic~ building." 
Mor~ work will b~ don~ in Wash­ington Hall this summ~r. "Th~ second phas~ of our work in Wash­ington will involve th~ North wing," said D~drick. A small theat~r will b~ built on th~ third floor. D~drick s~~s many purpos~s for this small~r stage. "When the main stage is tkd up, this will giv~ mor~ spac~ for activity." Th~ th~ater d~partment will probab­ly us~ this stag~ as an ~xp~rimental 
· th~at~r. Small~r acts and dane~ p~r­formanc~s will also fill th~ stag~. A new ~xhaust syst~m will b~ plac~d on th~ third floor to s~rv~ this theat~r. On th~ s~cond floor, n~w dr~ssing rooms for m~n and women will b~ built. 
East of O'Shaughn~ssy, the Shah~en-M~strovic Park will b~ built around the statu~ of Christ and th~ Samaritan woman at th~ well. Th~ park will consist of st~ps around th~ well seen~ leading up to b~nches built on raised concrete. D~drick says "Th~ park will b~ nic~ for small outdoor class~s and for talking to oth~r stud~nts b~tw~~n classes." 
North Quad swimm~rs will no longer have to mak~ the Ionghaul to Rockn~ M~morial wh~n th~y want to go for a dip. Contractors will soon b~gin th~ installation of a swimming pool at th~ A.C.C. It will b~ located on th~ ~ast side b~tw~~n Gat~s 5 and 
6. "By fall, th~ pool itself arid the 

• Palm Sunday, Holy Monday, & Holy Tuesday 7:00pm Holy Wednesday Unction ' ... 5:0fJpm-· 
' Holy Thursday Morning Liturgy 7:00am rHoly Thursday evening Passion Service ~. 7:00pm
..... 

• Holy Friday Apokathelosis ·3:00pm Holy Friday Lamentations 7:00pm '.Holy Saturday morning Liturgy 9:30am 
Holy Saturday Re~yrrection Matins &Liturgy 11:00pm ' Easter Sunday Agape Vespers 2:00pm
,
• 
Address: 52455 North /rQf;tHIQJJ!J.., .dJJ.;tJ W""w .,,_.u "' ..... South Bend, IN 
219-2 77-4688 Rev. Nicholas P. Petropoulakos, Paster 
.........................._. .. ,. 

,.. 
Student Activities Board is sponsoring 
A ONE WAY TRIP TO O'HARE 
Cost:$10 
Departure: 12:00 p.m., Thursday, April19 
From: Main Circle 
Arrival: Chicago's O'Hare Airport 
Sign ups are at the Student Union Record Store in LaFortune 
... ...... 



r--------------------------,
I NOTICE 
I 

I I
I Students, faculty, and etc., male or female-1 I we can start you in your own janitorial II business for only $9.95, part time or full time. 1 
I I
1 *no more summer jobs I 1 *oom~~ci~m~~ I 1 *make $8-$15 aQ hour 1
1
1 *have clients immediately I 1 For more information, send replies to: I 1
I SunBelt Services 1 1 213 South Lovell Rd. I 1 Chatanooga, Tennessee 37411 I 
~-------------------------­
supporting masonry walls should b~ finished. The students will b~ able to s~e the shap~ of the pool," said D~drick. 
Finally, an addition will be made:: to the Power Plant. This new area will hous~ an additional l"hilled· watc::r facility that will s~rv~ the:: llni­vc::rsity's air-conditioning units. Work should b~ don~ by fall. 
Looking ahead, D~drick describ~s work to be don~ to oth~r ar~as of campus. The Univ~rsity plans to b~gin work soon· on an addition to the Law School. The possibility of a fountain being added to th~ old fieldhous~ area is also being inves­tigat~d. 
Trip 
continued from page 1 
me~ting tomorrow ~v~ning at 6:00 
in LaFortune Stud~nt Cent~r wh~re 

people can sign up for th~ Bahamas 
trip, h~ said. 
Stud~nts will b~ flying on Delta 

Airlines to Nassau and will be staying 
at th~ Sh~raton British Colonial 
Hotel, said Yusko. 
"Th~ trip is about $1 50 mor~ than 

th~ trip to N~w Orleans," stat~d 
Yusko. "But you will probably have a 
few mor~ things available to you in 
th~ Bahamas like snorkling and 
scuba diving." 
"Right now, the trip is sch~dukd 

from October 20 to Octob~r 27," 
said Yusko. "But this might chang~ 
b~cause ofth~ home football gam~." 
Last y~ar's trip to th~ Bahamas was a big succcess, said Yusko. "A lot of p~ople w~r~ talking about going someplace warm," said Kathy Zi~m~r. anoth~r coordinator of the Bahamas trip. "Sine~ last year's trip was such a succ~ss, w~ want~d to of-. kr it again." 
~ The s~nior class· trip b~ing 

spo-9.~-f~d bY,._!..~~ llniv~rsity is to 
N~w Orleans over fa!! br~ak. "The 
pric~ is $290 and includ~s a ticket to 
the LSU and ND football game, a tick­
~t to the World's Fair and a riverboat 
cruise," said .Jim Canty, on~ of the 
coordinators for the s~nior class 
trip. 
Students will b~ sp~nding six 

nights and s~v~n days at th~ Marriott 
Hotel in downtown N~w Orleans, 
stated Canty. Transportation to N~w 
Orleans will b~ provided by 
Gr~yhound buses. 
"There ar~ 258 stud~nts who hav~ paid a down-payment for the trip," Canty said. "It's th~ most p~opk we've had in five years on a s~nior trip. Being with your class, you can do things with a lot mor~ p~ople." 
"Ther~·s no trav~l agency at all helping us with th~ trip," h~ said. "We talked to diff~r~nt hotels and th~y w~r~ v~ry good about giving us discounts. The Marriott is giving us th~ rooms at a really good price." 
Barnet 
continued from page 1 

national law specialist and has be~n a Fellow of th~ Harvard Russian Research Center and the Princeton Center for International Studies, as well as a visiting professor at Har­vard, Yale, Princ~ton, and th~ Uni­versity of Mexico. He has been a commentator for National Public Radio and appears frequently on television. 
Barn~t has publish~d articles in 

Harper's, The New York Times Magazine, Science, The New Republic, and numerous other publications. He is th~ author of several books, among them Who Wants Disarmament?, The Roots of War, and his latest work The Al­liance: America, Europe,japan. 

The Observer Monday, April 16, 1984 -~. page 4 

Hart a winner in Arizona caucuses 

SUMMER SESSION ADVANCE REGISTRATION 
Notre Dame Students 1984 SUMMER SESSION BULLETIN (Lists all courses available this summer) , 
SUMMER SESSION ADVANCE REGISTRATiON FORM (Needed to register for the Summer Session, not mailed out as in previous years) 
are available from SUMMER SESSION OFFICE/DEPARTMENT OFFICES/YOUR ADVISOR (forms only) 
The completed forms, signed by your advisor, should be returned (at Stepan Center for undergraduates and the Registrar's Office for graduate students) during the Advanced Registration period, April16·19. 

• 
SHARPEN UP YOUR GAME 

• 
LET THE PRETTY GIRLS TEACH YOU 

• 
HAVE A BUNCH OF LAUGHS 

• 
THE PERFECT GIFT FOR THE NON­PERFECT GOLFER 








BEA HERO! 

DONATE PLASMA 
YOUR PLASMA WILL BE USED TO MAKE LIFE SAVING DRUGS AND AS A NEW 
DONOR WE WILL PAY ~ 
YOU $12.00 FOR YOUR 
OPEN 
Wed. 
234-6010 
Exp. Date 



Associated Press 
Gary Hart said yt.·sterday that "it's been a rough couple of weeks but I think things look better" after win· ning the Arizona caucuses, while Walter F. Mondale began a three-day respite with a comfortable lead in delegates. 
!Iart, searching for a comeback af· ter losing Pt·nnsylvania and New York, polkd 45.4 pt·rcenr ofthe votl: to 3').8 percent for Mondalc. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson was in Cleveland yesterday . where he -hedged his announced support of a boycott of the Campbell Soup Co. lie later traveled to Washington, tel· ling a crowd ofnearly I0,000 he may not win the presidency but his cam· 
paign has generated a massive black turnout that will change the face of Congress this fall. 
"We are not measured by whether we get there -just so we are going in the right direction," .Jackson said. 
.Jackson had scon:d his first clear· cut victory of the campaign Saturday by amassing the largest share of delegates in his home state of South Carolina. 
llart hailed his Arizona win as a "clear and decisive victory" that foreshadows more western wins. "We won the state pretty decisive. Iy," llart said. 
At a news conference in Beverly Hills, Cali(, Hart said, "Incrt.·asingly, Democratic voters ...art.· turned off by Mr. Mondale's cheap attacks on me and his failure to put forth any vision of the future other than the Carter·Mondalc period. 
He then said he wanted to focus "less on Mondale vs. Hart and more on !Jan vs. Reagan." 
Referring to President Reagan's policies in El Salvador, IIart said, "I think this president is on a foolhardy course that the American people do not accept and will not support and will inevitably lead to the loss of American lives unnecessarily." 
jackson, meanwhile, criticized his Democratic presidential rivals for failing to support cuts in dcfcnst.· spending. Both llart and Mondalc have advocated increases in defense spending, although not as much as Reagan has propost·d. 
Send $6.95 (plys..$1.00 P & H) for each book ordered to: 
MACMAR, INC. Dept. N-27 
P.O. BOX 1481, . MORTON GROVE, IL 60053 
Allow 3-5 weeks for delivery 
·.,.. .. 

The Observer 

President ofthe Mess, Midshipman Captain Robert B. McMonagle, presents Rear Admiral Walsh with a Notre Dame Blanket and a Notre Dame NROTC mug as tokens of appreciation for RADM Walsh's attendance at the second annual Dining-ln. The NROTC Unit held the event last Friday at the ACC Monogram Room. 
• WANTED: 
•
•
: Any student interested in : applying for positions of : PRODUCER and DIRECTOR •
• 


: for STUDENT PLAYERS (1985-6): 
sign up on 2ndFLoor, LaFortune, • Student Activities Board • 

: Deadline: FRIDAY, APRIL 27 : 
)----------------------~----~--~--------------------~~ 


THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB-~·~. 
"BRUNO'S" 

.. 

THIS MONDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver 
a 16" pizza 
with 1 toppinl! 
for only $6.95 
Each additional topping 
$1.00 extra 
Order 2--$1 offtotal price Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotal price 
277-4519

Mon --Ib.urs Fri-Sat 4·dOPM Until12 am {)pen Sunday 4-10 pm 2'17-1519 

SPECIAL RATES AVAILABLE FOR EASTER 
Call the airport 234·3712 for information 
See us for all ofyour car related needs. 
WHERE WillERS lENT.'
I 
,..,RTZ RENTSFON)SANDOfMER FINE'CAIIS 

:"... ., . , . . . . . . .; ._· . 
' • l' ....... ~ .••.• •• • •• ­
Monday, April 16, 1984 -page 5 
AIDerican diplomats killed in blast 
Associated Press 
WINDHOEK. South-\X:est Africa -Two ll.S. diplomats were killt:d yesterday when a bomb exploded at the gasoline station where they had stopped to service their automohilt: in this disputed territory. 
Auministrator-Gent:ral Willie van Niekerk said a black civilian also was killed and four otht:r people were wounded. 
A western diplomatic source who was briefed by South African author­ities said it did not appear that tht: blast had been uirectt:d at tht: Americans. hut tht:y just happened to be at the station when the devict: exploded. The source asked not to he identitkd. 
Niekerk diu not identify the diplomats, but South African author­ities said they believed they were the director ofthe u:s. Liaison Office in Windhoek and his military repre­sentative, an army lieutt:nant colonel. 
Niekerk blamed the bombing on black nationalist guerrillas of tht: South-West Africa Pt:opks Organiza­tion, SWAPO. They han· have bt:en fighting a hush war for Ii years from bases in southern Angola against South Africa's administration of the territory. also called Namibia. 
Niekerk's statement said the Americans wt:re members of a tt:am working with a joint South African­Angolan monitoring commission. Tht: commission. which tht: llnitt:d States helped crt:ate in Ft:bruary, is trying to stop SWAPO units in An­gola from entt:ring Namibia while South African forces withdraw from southern Angola. 
The statt:ment said the bomb t:x­plodt:d at 4:10p.m. in Okatana. Tht: 
Americans wt:re  t:n  route  to  the  
northt:rn  Namibian  town  of  Os­ 
hakati.  

"At a time wht:n virtually 

IDite 1Kni!lltts nftlye C!rastlt 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest 
(r-.. ., minutes from campus 
.I.....,_~ ."r-o;'\ 
·....: . ~~ SPRING SPECIAL 
$5 Haircut only 

277-1691 
$850 Haircut, Shampoo 

272-0312 
Blowdrv 
offer only applies to male patrons 

Hrs: Tues. Wed: 8:30-5:30 54533 Terrace Lane Thur, Frl: 8:30-8:30 Across from Morttn's Sat: 8:00-2:30 
St. Rd.23 Clq~ed Mon .. 
Mon. & Tues., Aprill6 & 1 7&9PM $1 Admisssion Engineering Au d. 
Sponsors: Educ. Media & Center for Social COncerns 
SOME COURSES IMPROVE SCORES­WE IMPROVE STUDENTS., TOO! 
BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 

LSAT 
LIVE CLASSES 
• TEST-N·TAPE® LIBRARY 


• REINFORCEMENT TEST • HOMESTUDY PACKET 
Special 4 Week Program For Sept. 29 LSAT CALL FOR DETAILS 

t:veryone in southern Africa is working toward peace, SW APO still clings to a barbaric prt:ft:rt:nce for senseless violcnct:," Niekt:rk said. "The true nature of S\X'APO's con­cern for the welfare of the people of Namibia appears clearly from this incident. We will do everything wt: can to safeguard the local popula­tion against insane and co'.varuly acts." 


Ruppe 
continuedfrom page 1 
pointed to tht: Fhntifical Acadt:my of Scicnct:s. At tht: Popt:'s request, \X'eisskopf rt:L'l'ntly visitt:d Prt:sidt:nt Rt:agan to discuss \Yith him the Pon­tiffs concern over the arms race. 
•William 
Welsh, who will rt:ceive a doctor of laws uegrt:e. Welsh is a I ')-40 Notre Dame alumnus and deputy librarian ofCongrt:ss. He was appointed to his currt:nt position in 19'6. and has spent 29 years in the Library ofCongress. 

•Marina 
von Nt:umann Whitman, who will receive a doctor oflaws de­gree. Whitman is viet: president and chief economist at General Motors. She has bt:en on a number of ad­visory groups including tht: Council on Foreign Relations, the Trilatt:ral Commission and the Brookings Panel on Economic Activity. Before joining General Motors, she was a 


proft:ssor of economics at the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh. 
•Robt:rt Wilmouth. who will rt:ct:ivt: a doctor oflaws uegrtT. Wilmouth is a Notre Damt: alumnus and presi­dt:nt and chief ext:cutive officer of the National Futures Association. He was formerly prt:sident ofthe Crock­er National Bank ofSan Franisco and also prt:siuent of the Chicago Board of Trade. He is also currently chair­man of LaSalit: National Bank of Chicago and a trustee of the Univer­sity. 

September P ,. '84 Hoosier I"'· Sl o\"1~,anapolis ~4t··<;~er person 
~MICHIGAN STATE= 
September 15. 1984 East Lansing. Michigan ~4800 per person 
{r•qrw!~nol nccii()I.Oprlo<lo 711/841 
.--.--...... MISSOURI'"""'""""""--. 
September 28-30. 1984 Columbia, Missouri 119900 per person • 
=--LOUISIANA STATE--­UNIVERSIT'I & World's Fair October 23-28. 1984 New Orleans and Baton Rouge 
172000 per person • ---.LOUISIANA STATE= UNIVERSIT'I 
October 26-28. 1984 New Orleans and Baton Rouge '47200 per person • -------. NAVY===­
November 2-4. 1984 Giants' Stadium. New Jersey Weekend In New lbrk City 
139900 per person • 
-=--uNIVERSIT'I OF~ SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
November 23-28. 1984 los Angeles, California 0nd including 4 days In La_ .J gas (No Home TeleVISIOn) 
166900 per person • 'lease confirm ___ _ reservot1ons for: J Notre Oome.-Purd!e 0 Notre Dcvne L5U r~ doysl 
0 Notre DamefuM 0 Notre DOtTle lSU ( 3 cloys} rbus ootvl O Jllotre Oorne No'A,I 'J Nr>tre Dome MlfhlgC~n St D Notr., 0.-.-n~~ US( 
0 NotTe Dom&M\s'j()I,J!\ \.0§ '118QO!o 
Oepoo;lt pe.r person Is enclosed. '_ _ . __ ·-_ Full payment per person Bfl(\osed 'Double Oc<uponcy 
iVI~Cofd• ------~EJplres 
IMastv Cord • 
,•~ -------­
-""--------­
Clty/Stote/Ztp 
Telephone _ 
SPECIAl OffER 
Attend four games ()'1tl reretve o 1~Wool Notre Dome St011tum Blanket 
~source
..:Travel 
P 0. Box 1602 South Bend. Indiana 46634 (21~) 236-2656 

j 
j 
... 





~i~~~_()__i_ll___t__________________M_o_nd~ay,~Ap~ri-11~6,_19-84~p~age_6 
El Salvador where the tormentors triumph 
A rt:cently released documt·ntary on El Sal­vador providt·~ Mlme revealing information about the IYH2 nationwide elections, which dt'l'ted till' right-wing candidate Roherto D'Aubuisson as prt·sidt·nt. In the documentary titlnl/n the Name of Denunnuy, the IYH2 
David Grote 

Speaking out of turn 
dections art· rt•vt·akd as a mockery of frt-edom and dt·mocracy. 
What is disturbing is that tht· diary Father Ilt-sburgh kt·pt during his visit to El Salvador as an ollkial li.S. observer fails to mention the fal'!ors which staint·d tht· kgitimacy of the IYH2 dt-ctions. 
That diary, printed in a five-part series in The Obsen•er in April 19H2, appeared in an ah­hn·viatt·d form in Notre Dame Magazine un­der tht· title: "The Triumph of a Tormentt·d People." It seems, though, from tht· inti1rma­
elections were just a continuation of the tor­
ment of tht· Salvadoran people. 

In El Salvador it is illegal, cvt·n treasonous, not to vote. Salvadoran law states: "Voting is a right and duty ofall citizens, and its exercise is non-transferrable and compulsory." Thnt:forc, voting is not an exercise of in­dividual freedom in El Salvador. In a country wlwrc breaking the law can he lift:­thn:atening, it is easy to understand why the people struggled to vote. 
Each Salvadoran citizen must carry iden­tification papcrs with him. Interestingly, these papers have blanks that must be stamped for each election. Ifyou do not vote, then you do not get a stamp. These papers must he presented for most transactions a Salvadoran makes. For I 0 days after the elections, the army, the police, right-wing death squads, or anyone with a gun could demand to sec your papers. 
In the election each ballot was numbered. When voters cast their ballots, election offi­cials marked down the ballot number next to their name. In his diary, Hesburgh explained, 
tion revealed in the documentary, that the, "The dilemma is that without the number, you 
cannot prevent illegal voting, but if the num­ber is left on the ballot, then tht· ballot is not really secret." The U.S. Official Observer Delegation suggested that that voters be allowed to tear the number off the ballot and either burn it or drop it in the box with the ballot. llcshurgh said, " . . . all the political parties arc meeting to try to unsort this little snafu that came up at the last moment." 
Numbered ballots can hardly be called a "little snafu." What was to stop the right­wingcrs already in power from using this in­formation to attack those who had opposed them. It seems Hcshurgh failed to mention that, on Election Day, a wing of D'Aubuisson's party (a party associated with the right-wing death squads) ran a full page ad in the papers claiming that tearing the ballots was illegal. 
In the Name ofDemocracy also describes the usc of transparent lucite ballot boxes which, by law, had to be kept in plain view of the precinct workers. The thin, paper ballots used in the 1982 elections made it easy to sec who the voter chose. Can such conditions produce a fair election? Can someone in fear 
. 

oftheir life make a free decision? 
llcsburgh's diary described fivc-hlock-long lines ofvoters in San Salvador. lie seemed very impressed. lie was supposed to be. On elec­tion day only 13 polling places were open to serve the 500,000 registered voters in that city. It made for a grand show, having more than 38,000 voters to a polling place. 
How could llcshurgh have missed all of this? If he truly had no idea that these things were occuring in El Salvador, he failed miserably as an observer. If, on the other hand, he knew about these abuses and ignored them, he is guilty offar more than ignorance. 
If Hcsburgh did keep these abuses secret, then he betrayed the Salvadoran people by promoting a false image ofthe elections in the United States. lie also betrayed all those working to effect social justice in E1 Salvador, and all those who respect him as a man of justice. 
Knowing of his close friendship with Napoleon Duarte, the Christian Democrat's presidential candidate and former Notre I Dame alumnus, it is difficult to accept that this • information was unavailable to him. 

Judicial Council learns new tricks 
S/ou• IJeath humorously dcscrihnl Judicial Coordinator !lob (;Ieason as "a powt·r­grubbing pseudo-dictator." An Ombudsman ollkial jokingly callnl (;Ieason "a kgend in his own mind." l.t·t's hope, though, that senior Bob (;kason will ht· rt·mt·mhnnl as the man 
Joseph Murphy Wishful thinking 
who took tht· judidal council from the dog­houst· of student government. If nothing dse, this b tlw story ofa hoy and his dog. 
My first assignment as an Obsen•er reportt·r was to cover tht· judicial council. I remember walking into a rKarly empty room anJ think­ing the council, like all dead bodies, should 
indeed he covered. At the meeting (I use the 
term loosdy) Gleason announced the forma­tion of several committees. During his talk, Gleason occasionally looked over to see if I was writing, and then he would nod approv­ingly if he saw my pen in motion. Gleason assumed I was taking down his words, hut ac­tually I was writing a letter to my cousin. 
I \HOtl', "I'm listening to some guy talk. He's forming more committees than he has com­mittee members present. He reminds me of a little hoy who brings home a puppy and promises he'll take care ofit, and then doesn't. This council is dcfinitdy tht runt of the stu­dent government litter and I know this guy isn't going to clean up after the: puppy's mess."· 
To my surprise, the council neither died a slow death, nor did it linger in the vacuum which usually surrounds campus politics. In­
stead, Gleason (poopcr-scooper in hand) manipulated the council with the skill of a veterinarian caring for an extremely sick animal. Somehow Gleason managed to keep the judicial puppy alive. 
Using an old trick, Gleason taught the coun­cil to hold regularly-scheduled meetings and demanded that council members regularly at­tend those meetings. A mandatory attendance policy will take effect next year. 
Gleason's first real "dog show" was a judi­cial workshop. I came expecting to write more letters to relatives. Instead, I, along with 100 hall judicial members, learned how to conduct a trial. Dean Roemer even gave a talk on student rights. The council was growing from a playful puppy to a barking dog. 

Student rights were to become Gleason's central theme. The council began an ag­gressive ad campaign to inform students of their rights. The Du Lac committee helped get 
Dean Roemer to clarify the ambiguity surrounding punishments. Gleason formed a parictals committtcc, with Student Body President Ilrian Callaghan's blessing, to ex­amine alternatives to the present policy. And of course, Gleason, tired of chewing off the: bones from the student government table, pur up a dogfight for control ofstudent elections. The council even began publishing a newslet­ter to keep hall members posted on events. 
Gleason opened several doors that I thought were not only closed, hut lock~:d. Eight months ago, I thought the council should be ncut~:rcd. Thanks to the judicial coordinator, the council has made a new 
1 

beginning. As Ilob Gleason unleashes thc 
0

council to fend for itself, I thought I'd let him know somebody was watching him walk his, dog through the maze ofcampus politics. 
Campus comments: What is your favorite drink? 

Midori Mc:llonhalls. It's a tasty way of I don't play t:tvoritcs when it comes Alabama Slammers. I drink them in Bacardi and coke, because it's cf. Hurricanes, because they make your gt·tting trashnl. to drinking. The time and place honor of my fun and wild roommate fective. head spin. predicts tht· drink. -the southern belle from Mobile, Alabama, Kathie! 
Liz Meehan Michelle Prairie Eugenia Garrett Martin P. McNulty Paul G. Tobin English/Government Accounting Science Preprofessional Mechanical Engineering Electrical Engineering Class of86 Class of85 Classof86 Classof86 Classof87 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (279) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ... _ _.. Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . ......... Dave Taicjet Managing Editor . . . ... Mark Worscheh Controller . _ ... Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. . . . . Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . . . .... Jeff O'Neill refjecllhe pojicres of I he administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager. . . . . Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski ol a majOrity of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor . . . . . . . . . . . Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966

community, and the free express1ori of varying opin1ons on campus, through letters, Features Ed1tor. . . . . . . . . .. Mary Healy IS encouraged. Photo Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pete Laches 

"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~----------------------------------------~M~o~n~d~~~·~ApLr~il~1~6~,1~9~8~4--~pa~g~e~7 
r 


P. 0. BoxQ 
B-Ball brawl 

DearEditor: 
Spring at Notre Dame marks the return of two events, Bookstore Basketball and spring football practice. Unfortunately, on April 9th, the return of both were witnessed on the court. During a game between Spontaneous Combustion and Sweet Swishers, a shocking display ofunsportsmanlike conduct occurred. One of the members ofSweet Swishers, a var· sity football player, used his pronounced size advantage on several unnecessary occasions. 
The first incident set the tone for the game. As a member of Spontaneous attempted to steal the ball from the football player, acciden­tal contact resulted in both players falling to the ground. When both players returned to their feet, the football player suddenly in­itiated a shoving match, leading to the restraint ofboth players. 
Second, one of the Spontaneous mem­bers, about two steps ahead of the football player during a fast break, went up for a layup. After thco, Spontaneous member already had released the ball, the Swisher deliberately knocked him, causing the Spontaneous player to fall to the ground, hitting the basket sup­port pole. Fortunately, he was not hurt. 
The third incident began with the same football player initiating an exchange of el­bows with a Spontaneous player. Reacting to the retaliatory action, the football player took matters into his own hands by grabbing the player around the neck from behind, refusing to release him. 
After members ofboth teams separated the two, the football player again lunged at him, this time in vain. Under Bookstore rules, "technicals may also be given when, in the judgement of the officials, a player has com· mitted an unsportsmanlike act toward anoth­er player or official." 
Unfortunately in this case, there was no one present with the authority to take action. In order to prevent further incidents of this nature, more explicit guidelines should be drawn, giving the scorekeepers the authority to take action when the guidelines have been violated undeniably, as in this case. 
I am not directing this at the football players, nor am I condemning aggressive play, yet there are limits to how rough play should get, especially when referees are not present. Such incidents have no place during Bookstore play and hopefully will be avoided in the future. 
john Miranda junior 


An ego trip on courts 
DearEditor: 
This letter is in response to action taken by 

the Bookstore Basketball commissioners 
concerning the double forfeited game be­
tween "Moonjuice" and "We Came To Shoot 
Pool ... ". According to Tournament Com­
missioner Jeff Blumb and Commissioner 
Emeritus Dave Dziedzic, both teams were 
forced to forfeit the game bacause of an 
"unwritten rule." 
Here are the facts: both of the alm_ve men­tioned teams were scheduled to play on Bookstore Court No. 9 at S:30 p.m. on Tues­day, April I 0. The preceding game, however, scheduled at 4:4S p.m. between "S Jour­nalists ... " and "Red Tape," in which Dave Dziedzic and Jeff Blumb played, took well over an hour to complete, upsetting the original time schedule. 
Thus, prior to our game, Special Assistant Commissioner Suzanne l.aCroix asked us to move our game to Stepan. We replied we had already told several friends to come watch, had looked forward to playing behind the Bookstore, were already scheduled, and that Bookstore Games had been known to run late in the past anyway. 
LaCroix countered that we'd end up run­ning late, and she had to get home "to study for tests." She then agreed we could play if both teams didn't mind running late. Both teams agreed to this and took the court im­mediately after the previous game. As our 
game was about to begin, Dziedzic and Blumb, armed with their "unwritten rule," told us that if we did not move our game to Stepan, both teams would be disqualified. 
Although both commissioners vehemently deny it, the obvious motive behind the un­reasonable ultimatum was that the "Esophagus Constrictors" game scheduled for 
6:1 S p.m. on Bookstore No.9 was too impor­tant to be delayed. 
Is this the meaning ofBookstore Basketball? Were Dziedzic and Blumb's actions jus­tifiable? We think not. We strongly feel that no Bookstore Game should take preference over another. Therefore there was no reason for us to move. 
We played ourgame in front ofa supportive crowd. It promptly ended at 6:18p.m., only 3 minutes beyond the "highlighted" game time. Dziedzic and Blumb refused to accept our game as official even after we tried to intel­ligently plead our cause. When asked to specify the actual rule that was being violated, Commissioner Emeritus Dave Dziedzic told some team members that since there was no rule concerning the issue "I've just created one." 
We here at Notre Dame often complain of the one-sided decision making technique used by the administration. Here we have a case where two students, Dave Dziedzic and Jeff Blumb, are given a chance to prove that students can in fact run things in a fair and reasonable manner. It is obvious they have failed and fallen to the authoritative style of the much criticized administration. 
The Bookstore Tournament should be for the students' enjoyment, and should not be an ego trip for a few individuals. 
"Moonjuice" team members 

"WeCameToShootPool ... "team members 
joe Casper 
Tony DiRe 
Rob Bertino 


The Russian problem 
DearEditor: 
Once again election year is upon us. With all the hubbub on campus concerning our recent mock convention, and in the nation as November approaches, a first-time voter can very easily become confused, distraught and eventually apathetic regarding the whole democratic process. 
Candidates preaching similar platforms at­tack each other vehemently. Columinists at­tack candidates when they are not going after each other. The smell ofcoercion and deceit is so pungent at times it's no wonder many people dismiss the electoral process as no­thing more than soggy porridge on a rainy day. 
The 1984 presidential election however, willprove to be critical and thus should not be taken lightly by any voter. Because ofReagan's belligerent foreign policy, the world fmds it­self much closer to a nuclear confrontation than Reaganites talk themselves into believ­ing. 
Most people know that the United States needs a strong defense to maintain nuclear deterrence. What most people do not know is that our nuclear deterrence exists and that the current administration's strong push for in­
creased  armaments  is the  result of an  er­ 
roneous  obsession  with  Soviet  nuclear  
supremacy.  

Hans Bethe, Nobel laureate, Manhattan Project veteran, and until recently, a principal designer of U.S. strategic weapons systems, has this to say about Reagan's buildup: " ... there is no deficiency in armaments in the United States ... we don't need to catch up to the Russians, ... ifanything, the Russians have to catch up to us." 
Furthermore, Gerald Smith, President Nixon's chief negotiator on strategic arms limitation talks, states that the current ad­ministration's claim to a position of nuclear inferiority is "puzzling, perhaps perni­cious ... Somehow, while being in a position ofparity, we have managed to convince many that we are in second place.... It will take some doing to arrive at arrangements that cor­rect a balance now alleged to be out of equi­librium." 
These are not just isolated claims. Many arms control experts and important public of­ficials (past and present) agree that Reagan's handling of the "Russian problem" is dan­gerous in all its implications. While it is impos­sible to adequately discuss these claims and the opposing arguments in the body of this letter, a wealth ofinformation exists support­ing both views and it is up to each and every voter to become just a little acquainted with what's going on before stepping into the pol­ling booth in November. 
A good start would be Robert Sheer's book, 
With Em?J!ft,ht Shov~lsh an insight int<~ the Reagan adnuitt~fr1h(lfi~s ~{ews on the Russians and nuclear war. 
While knowing little or nothing about the current political climate between the super­powers, one can very easily get caught up in the rhetoric ofthe Reagan administration and adopt it as one's own beliefs. In light of nuclear weapons one must step back from that rhetoric and realize that Reagan is playing the most dangerous game a man can play. 
When global annihilation is the risk, nuclear chicken isn't worth playing any more. Before voting in November, take the time to read and familiarize yourself with the situation. Only when this is done can anything meaningful be attributed to your vote in November. A vote cast in the absence ofknowledge this year is a gross discredit to oneselfand all humanity. 
Mike Lefcourt 


Peaceful Protest 
DearEditor: 
I would like to clear up a few items set forth in a recent column appearing in The Obseroer. Specifically, I refer to the article "Rude Awakening at 6 a.m." by Dan McCullough. This article dealt with the problem ofcertain ROTC units disturbing other students' peace while jogging. 
McCullough notes, "Now that the weather is becoming nicer, some Navy and Army ROTC units are jogging on the road that sur­rounds campus." There are a number ofthings wrong with this statement and the ones that follow it. 
First, I am a member ofthe Navy ROTC unit at Notre Dame and there is no way in the world that anybody is going to get me up at 6 
a.m. to go running. I think the majority of my Navy comrades share this feeling with me. 
I believe McCullough is confusing us with members of the Marine ROTC program. The Marine ROTC students actually comprise but a part of the Naval ROTC program, which we are both members of 
Second, and more importantly, in prepara­tion for Officer's Candidates School (held during the summer), junior Marine ROTC stu­dents have been partaking in the "bulldog prep" training program every Monday, Wed­nesday and Friday for more than a year and a half now. They were even out there in January. 
This week was the first week of the semes­ter in which the Marines did not go out run­ning, because of NROTC physical fitness testing. It was also, to the best of my knowledge, the week that Army ROTC began morning workouts. 
Why did McCullough wait until this week to write his editorial and not in February, or November for that matter? I believe the Army ROTC students were the "straw that broke the camel's back." I too was awakened on the 
lO~h, ·and noted a group of Army ROTC stu­dents shouting the exact chant McCullough referred to. 
I think it is unfair ofMcCullough to criticize the Marine ROTC students. I know for a fact that these students generally try to maintain peace and regular quiet as they go about their workouts, and do not "wake up" everybody. 
As for McCullough's suggestion that the stu­dents run around Green Field and the stadium, I would like to note that they do. I think McCullough is underestimating the ex­cellent overall physical condition of the Marine ROTC students. 
While I have been awakened by the Marines two or three times this year, it has not been so terrible that 1 didn't fall asleep 10 seconds later. I've been awakened many more times by the Iawnmowers and garbage trucks outside my dorm. Maybe we should stage a peaceful protest against them. 
john McEachen junior 


Take a position, Potter 
DearEditor: 
I have always assumed that editorials were opinions expressed by the writer on a par­ticular subject. After reading Mark Potter's April 12 article, I'm not so sure. It seems he is trying to say that a new alcohol policy is needed, and it is a good idea, and that the old policy is great and should not be changed. 
This guy is really decisive. Why won't this guy tell us what he really thinks? What is he afraid of? Or maybe he is just incompetent. In any case, Potter must learn to take one view or the other and not try to pacif)' both sides. In the meantime, I think Potter ought to wipe off his nose. 
Timothy Schafbauser Sophomore 


Thanks, O'Donnell 
DearEditor: 
I would like to express my appreciation to Santiago O'Donnell for his April 9 article on Latin America. In August 1983, my mother spent three weeks in a refugee camp in Hon­duras. She returned shaken and appalled by the activities of the Salvadorean army and by the treatment refugees received from the military at the border camp. 
She recounted to me a story told her by a woman from El Salvador. This woman and the rest of the women and children in her village were chased for three days through the jungle by the Salvadorean army. They could travel only at night, and the women had to cover the babies' mouths fo! fear the children would ac­cidentally betray their position. These people, too, wonder why the United States is allowing this type ofatrocity. 
It is unfortunate that most North Americans are unable to understand the plight of these people, but look instead at Central and South America as political chess pieces with no regard for the people they profess to be help­ing. 
Ann L. Boynton Graduate Student 


A lot of good press 
DearEditor: 
In Wednesday's edition ofP.O. Box Q, joe Malvizzi wrote a letter in response to The Ob­seroer coverage of the Mock Convention '84. Althoughjoe had some good points, I'm afraid that his stance does not justly reflect the ef­forts of The Obseroer to give the convention "good press." 
Having worked on the executive commit­tee from the beginning I must say that from what I observed, the coverage of the conven­tion was complete, accurate and fair. This Convention was an important event and I believe that this was reflected in the amount of press given us. Not only did The Obseroer give us a lot ofpress, it gave usgood press. 
William]. Healy Executive Committee 1984 Mock Convention 


Space was not ignored 
DearEditor: 
In response to the April 13 letter from Paul Wilkins and Mike Traynor regarding space development being "ignored" in the Mock Convention platform, I would like to make several points. 
First, nothing was "ignored" in the Mock Convention platform. The platform was necessarily limited to a length which was felt to be long enough for each delegate to have time to read. Ifevery issue under the sun were included in the platform, nobody would have read it, and the whole purpose ofhaving a plat­form would have been defeated. 
Second, space development was explicitly not ignored in the platform. The platform states that "the U.S. has little to gain and much to lose from the increased militarization of space." The platform also seeds a "treaty limit­ing or forbidding development and deploy­ment of anti-satellite weaponry by the Soviet Union or the United States." 
Furthermore, the construction of the High Frontier ABM system which Wilkins and Traynor advocate would seriously question our compliance with the 1972 ABM treaty, one of the few arms control agreements which has been successfully upheld. 
To send the arms race spiralling into space with the construction ofsuch an ABM system would undermine deterrence and seriously threaten the prospects for real arms control, which the platform urges should be pursued in earnest. 
Wilkins and Traynor had their chance to contribute to the platform. The committee process was open to all students who wished to participate. The committee would have gladly extended ample time to Wilkins and Traynor had they simply expressed their views at the appropriate time and place. 
As it stands, the platform specifically takes a stand against the item which Wilkins and Traynor assert it "ignored." 
Paul Kom_vatte Co-chairman Mock Convention Platform Committee 



Showcase 

Monday, April 16, 1984 -page 8 
Strange days indeed 

An ND interview in the year 2000 
... 

by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
Excerpt from ..The David Lellerman Show, .. April I 4. 2000. 
LETTERMAN: ...Would everyone please welcome University of Notre Dame President Wt·adore Thisplace. 
(Applause. Thisplace u•alks onstage, raising his hands as ifin tJ/ctory•. thmu•ing kisses at the audience, then finally shaking bauds tl'ith Letterman. Letterman motionsfor Thisplace to take a seat.) 
TIIISPLACE: lley. it's really great to be here. 
LETTERMAN: Wcadore, you've been the: presidcnt ofNotre: Dame 
for how long now? 
TIIISPLACE: Two ycars, David, and it sure took me: longcnough to 
gt"! there. I mcan, after Ted got the ten-ycar cxtension on his con­
tract back in the 'HOs, no one evcr thought he'd leave:. And cvcn 
when he dicd in 'HH, they didn't name Eddie: joyce: his succcssor until 
three days wcre up, just in case, you know? And then Eddie finally 
went in '9H, as everyone: knows, and I took the helm. 
I.E'ITERMAN: I understand all of your studcnts are rcquired to 
skt·p on the: floor? 
TIIISPLACE: Yeah, that's right, David. Even after we: outlawed 
lofts. we: still had problems. Astudent in a drunken stupor fell off a 
dayh~d and fell into his own vomit and suffocated. That was whcn 
Ted was still the prez. So then we had evcryone sleep on mattrcsses, 
but that didn't go on for long, t:ithn, because some: guy at the Univer­
sity of Zimhabwt.· rolkd off a mattrcss he was sleeping on and died. 
So now everyone has to slet.·p on the floor. 
LETI"ERMAN: Pardon me itTm wrong, Weadore, but wasn't the: guy who rolled off his mattress in fact a 90-year-old tcacher? Wouldn't that have somt·thing to do with his death? 
TIIISPI.ACE: I suppose that could have: been a minor factor. But 
the important thing was that he died falling off a mattress. 
LETTERMAN: I set.·. Now, about your football team, Weadore. 
Notn· Dame has gone: 6-S for the last fifteen ycars. I belicve that's a 
rt.·conl. isn't it? 
TIIISPLACE: You're ahsolutdy right, David, it is. Shoot, after Gerry 
Faust went I 0-1 in 'H4 and then won the Cotton Bowl, what else 
could we do but extend his contract by 2S years? 
LElTERMAN: Yes, I see your logic. 
TIIISPLACE: So we've becn to the Liberty Bowl three: timcs now, 
to hdp celt.-brate its .30th, .~Sth and 40th anniversarics. I'll admit it's 
getting quite monotonous. But wt.·'ve nevcr quite hecn able to turn 
down the bucks, you know? 
LETTERMAN: Along those lines. I hear the tuition at Notre Dame: 
has been upped to an incn·dihle S.:\0.000 a year for students now:·-­
TIIISPI.ACE: Actually, it's $_32,SOO, David. The reason it's so high. ofcourse, is to hdp pay for all the guards against possible injury whkh the University has had installed on campus. It's not nearly enough, you understand, but I think in the long run our protective mt.·asures have shdtercd us against lawsuits and have saved us money. 
LETTERMAN: What kind of protcctivc measures arc you talking about? 
THISPLACE: Well, thcre's the massive: conveyor belt system we have, David. The belts run evcrywhere on campus. so people don't have to walk anywhcre; just stcp on a bdt and there you arc at Stepan Center or the Rockne Mcmorial without having to walk. We: were: worried some student would trip on a crack in one of the old sidewalks, fall ovcr a fence: or something, and then sue us for every­thing we have:. So we solved that problem. 
LETTERMAN: Hard to helit:ve, Weadorc. Tcll me: more. 
TIIISPLACE: We're trying to make Notre: Dame: the safest school in tht.· world. There was an incident out at Duck Island at St. jost.·ph's Lake that had us shaking in our sot.·ks. Some crazed duck ran after a studt.·nt who had playfully wandcrcd onto the island and bit him, and he wantcd 10 sue the l !nivcrsity for allowing wild animals to run loost.·. !think this was in '91. So wc gave him a full scholarship and he nevt.·r said another word about it. But to prcvent anything similar from happening, we just had all ofthe: ducks hunted down and shot, 
and wc scattered duck repcllcnt all ovcr thc shorcs ofthe lakes. And finally wc installed hiddt.·n machine guns on campus to ward off any ducks or other birds that might come to Notre Dame to bite some­body. 

lEITERMAN: We havt.· timt.· for one more question, Weadore. It's somt.·what ofa dosed issue: since the case was dosed in 1994, but I was wondt.·ring if you could shed any more: light on the situation. For those in the audknce who might not know the: story, five senior classes in a row pt.·titioned to have Ft. Laudcrdale resident Harold B. Augustine as thdr t.·ommt.·ncement speaker in the mid to late HOs. Augustint.· then mysteriously disappeared in 19H9. The question is, whatever happened to Harold B. Augustine? 
TIIISPLACE: No commcnt, David. 
LETTERMAN: Well, thanks for coming down ti>r the show, Wt:adore. Will you be coming back for our segment of"Stupid llni­vnsity Pn·sidt.·nt Tricks?" 
TIIJSPI.ACE: Ofcourse, David. 
(Thisplace shakes hands with Letterman and walks offstage. ) 
lEITERMAN (to audience): Well, there's our show for tonight. 
liard to believe, isn't it, folks? 


An outstanding array of talent 
This year's 26th annual Col­legiate Jazz Festival brought with it several of the best professional and college jazz musicians in the coun­try. Held over the weekend in Stepan Center, the festival featured bands from Massachusells, in­diana, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, and New York, as well as the Fredonia jazz Quintet and Ensemble, the Kevin Gainer Quartet, and broadcaster Willis Conover as master ofceremonies. 
The Observer /Thorn Bradley 


On the superiority of dogs 
by Paul Cimino 
features columnist 
G
arfield Hcathdiff. 
What do these names have in common? As you probably have al­ready realized, they are names of cats. But why art· thcsc cats so well known? I mcan, what good arc they? Really now. what good are cats anyway?!? 
Let's get st·rious here. The creature that should be talkcd about is the dog. That's right, the DOG!!! The dog is a much more worthwhile creature than the cat. Why, you ask? Well, dear elocutionist, rcad and lt-arn. 
First ofall. the dog is not known as man's best friend for nothing. He is now and always has hcen important in society. Way back when man had to hunt in order to survive, the dog was an invaluahlt· asset. Evcn today the dog remains a willing helper to duck hunters. And, by the way, whcn was the: last time you heard ofa hunch ofeats leading good old Prince Charles to a fox? 
But enough offox huntl~g and retrievers. Let's talk HOLLYWOOD! Dogs are acting in shows all over the place:. How about "Lassie," "Benji," and the: parts dogs have playcd in such mcmorable sitcoms as "The Brady Bunch" and .. Please don't eat the Daisies." You may have also noticed the dog in this wcekend's movie, .. Fiashdance." Simply put, the dog is a much more able actor than the cat. 
Dog's have so much going for them, in fact, that they can't lose. Loyalty, intelligence, and ability ­all qualities which fdincs do not possess in great qualities. Sure. I know that you are going to argue that cats learn to usc litter boxes quickly and to bury any of their leavings. Alii can say is WOU'1 ' One of the most enjoyable things about owning a dog is walking him. lean find nothing I would rather do than try to restrain my Siberian Husky from pulling me all over the neigh­borhood. 
I would like to clarify a previous statement. Earlicr I said that people own dogs. True, you do need a license for your dog; however. in realitv after a short period of time a d<lg1fei'oines a flllt-fll'dgtlil member ofany family. To true dog lovers, licem.es are just forinalities. 
Excuse me; I digrcss. Lct me now turn to the dog's worth in and 
around the home. 
My house is heated hy natural gas and every time the gasman comes to chcek the: mctcr, I am usually hard­pressed to restrain my dog. Once my dog realizes that a strangcr is coming into the: house he takes things into his own hands (or paws). It takes a good half hour to make him under­stand that the person is a frit.'nd. And here is a question for you: Have you ever had a girlfriend or boyfriend whose dog does not like it when you tout·h her or him? And what if your girlfrit:nd t:njoys watching while you are attacked hy ht.·r dog? Try it some time. I think you will agn:e there art.· better ways to spt.·ml an t:vening. 
But the dog can do a great deal more than just guard your house and family. Depending on your teaching ability, it is possibk to get your dog to fetch the papt:r, a pair ofslippers. a frisbee, or even open and dose doors. About the doses! a cat will come to mirroring thest: abilities is to play with a hall ofstring and/or look cutt.·. Boring. 
If, however, you still believe that God had a constructivt.· reason for cr~ating the cat, go ahead and try 10 find one. Here: is one hint: whatever the: reason, it was not to bring brandy to frt:ezing mountain clim­bers. 

-·--...... ---·-. --... -................... -... -.. -.... -....... -..... ..._-------­
Monday, April 16, 1984 -page 9 


Sports Briefs 
Second round action 
Bookstore Tournament Yesterday's Results Anyplace, Anytime over Seka by 6
Saint Mary's College had a busy weekend in sports, 
Stepan 1 Duffy's Alamo $.50 Balloon Club over Men Without Friday's Results 4 Guys & Herb over 2 Hoosiers & 3 Guys From Brainsby8
as three Belles teams were in action. The Saint Mary's softball team 
Real Places by 2 Take It to the Hole over Wh1te Boy·s Disease by 8 
raised its record to 16-2 with a doubleheader sweep of Anderson, 
Armed & Dangerous II over BVK by 6 Spurtin' Spartans over 5 Guys Who Have Not Been Stepan 1 Pete's Blind Sisters over No Need For Alarm by 4 With Jamie ... by 9
winning I 0-2 and 4-0. Cathy Lodgson fired a two-hitter in game one, 
Bookstore Bleeps, Blunders over Sick, the Ban-Thy Kingdom Come over The Drillers. 24-22 What It Is over Lick My Greasy Balls One Last Time 
while Annie Day scattered six hits to get the shutout in the nightcap. 
gars & a Knockout by forfeit We'd Rather Be Playing Golf over Hula Hoopsters by 4 
What It Is over The H.B.·s by 5 by t7 
Short On Height over We Suck by 3 Lick My Greasy Balls One Last T1me over Cranber­Rag1n· Catuns over The Original Eggshell Skulls by Stark Naked & the Protrusions over Mountam Dew 
The Belles track team earned a victory on Saturday, defeating Gos­
hen College 80-42 in dual meet competition. However, the success 
ry Juice Cocktails by 10 3 
It All N1ght Long by 3 
Ragin CaJuns over The Keenan Inmates by 12 John Slime V over Bookstore
ended as the Saint Mary's tennis team dropped three matches, losing 
Murphy's Train Now Or Never over Jim Rabbis & the Marvelous Stepan2 Bleeps, Blunders ... by 9 Buds by 17
6-3 to Toledo and Northern Illinois and falling 8-1 to Western Michi­
The K1ng & His Court over T.J. Hooker's Hard Core Dribbling DYXZ over 4 Ugly Guys & Mr. July by 5 3 Revs. Of Jesse Jackson & 2 Guys To A«ract 
gan. -The Observer 
Scum by 10 Foo-Foo the Snoo over Win Or Lose We Still Booze over Shooting 8-C-Men by 13 Too Short. Too Slow, . over Some Things Speak by9 For Themselves by 2 Cleveland over X by 4 Stepan& Hoos1ers over Bogen s Zeros by 11 Stepan2 Destiny Without a Cause over The Nads by 4 Nebo G1ants over Corn & Cabbage, 25-23 Sometimes You Just Got To Say over Barfalo Spud & the 4 Studs over A Wheel & 4 Spokes by 8 Bob's Wild West Show by 8 Rho House over 1stha tfre u donab ike? by 14
Tim Noonan and Doug Pratt, two members of 
5 Guys That Can't Shoot When They're Wasted Shysters over The Missing Dimension in Se)C by 13 
Stepan 3 

over Fe02 & the Miners by 5 Big Swah1lis over Polly & the Orchids by 12
the Notre Dame tennis team, will be the featured guests tomorrow 
The Bears Are Flyin' over The Makebehevers by 4 
The Sneakergate Sneaks over The Meat Packers God's Own Drunks II over The Penn Kingsmen by 6
night on "Speaking ofSports" at 10 p.m. on WSND-AM 64.Join in the 
Corby Tooters over lncunabulae lnquinate by 13 
by 16 Tom· s Tool Monsters over Gerry, Digger & 3 Other 
Mythical Ethical Recycled Tricycle over Hopefuls
conversation with your questions and comments by dialing 9-239­
Fr. B & the Beer Bongs over Chris Soha & 4 Other Losers by 10 
by12 
Guys That Got Screwed by 11 Hoos1ers over The Beans Are Flyin' by 7
6400 or 9-239-7425.-The Observer 
Denms' Menaces on Dry Land over The 5 Knuckle­
Tom White & 4 Other Caucasians over Michael UB40 She B 13 We B Busted over Los Huevones shufflers by 15 Jackson Is A Flam1ng Homo by 4 by 7 
Stepan 4 

Nebo Giants over Deatlitudes by 6 Nasty. Nasty over Talk To Me by 6 
Much Be«er Off over Four K & O.C. by 11 
Naugles Memorial over The RA-Holes by 14 
Geritol Express over Rave On John Donne by 16 
Duey Oxburger & the Lean . . over Eddie & 4 Guys Bookstore9 Who Like To Hide ... by 18 Old Men On the Block over Your Freudian Slip is 
Ifyou think you can dunka basketball as well 
Today's schedule 
as anyone on campus, then you'll want to sign-up for the AnTostal 
Ph1 Pumpa Jumpa over Father Blowchamp & His 4 Showingby2 
Dry Heaps by disqualification Walter's Boys & Rebel over Marty Dunn & the Rat Chasers by? 
slam dunk competition to be held on Wednesday, April2S, from 2-3 
p.m. at a site to be announced later. To sign-up for the competition, 
Stepan 5 A Short Fat Guy over Does Your Roommate Have

on page 10 
Half A Beard? by 13 tatomc by 12 Over the Limit over The Non-Entitles by 9 
ich will have 9 and 10-foot rim divisions, come to the information 
UB40 She B13 We B Busted over Punky's Pen· 
oth in LaFortune tomorrow, April 17, at 8 p.m. Get there early
~ Human Athlete & 4 Other guys Who Can over
Our Russian Gunner & the 007 Swim Tearn over 
Strapamasqueon & the Combat Wombats over
cause there will be a limited number of entrants in each division. 
Derelicts by 5 The USS New Jersey ... by 8 
The King & His Court by 12
Shrapnel over A T-VTimeout by 4 Oink 01nk & the Collect Callers M1nus . over The Jimmy G. & the Spots over Windy City Action. 22­
-The Obseroer 
• 
Homewreckers by 6 20
Hitler Youth over Men Without Brains by 3 
Stepan6 

The Windy City 5 over Dead On Amval by 14 Bookstore 10
Los Malandros over We Dream Of the Fragrance 
Bungholes over Milk & the 4 Udders. 27·25 · Wheels & 4 Spokes over Ph1 Pumpa Jumpa by 16Of a Beautiful Fresh by 12 Stepan3 Virtual Unknowns over Mythical Ethical Recycled
5 Guys Who Urinate In the Shower over No Fat 
Los Malandros over The J.J.J. by 12 Tricycle by 15
Today's Women's Bookstore Basketball ac­
Girls by 11 5 Guys Who Urinate In the Shower over Our Rus-Law School over Full House by 8
Hoop Da Doop over Fumped Duck by 9
tion will see Pneumothorax ( 6) play The Late Arrivals ( 64) at 4 p.m. 
sian Gunner ... by 6 Eager Beaver Cleavers over Joe Delaney & the 4 
Hoop Da Doop over Shrapnel by 12 Lifeguards by 2
on Stepan 7. Also at 4 p.m., but on Stepan 8, is Princess Bookstore and 
Bookstore9 

Hitler Youth over K,lox·s Knockers by forfeit Kennedy & Co. over Buffalo Riders by 2
Her Ladies in Waiting ( 42) squaring off with Turn Off the Disposal 
Oink Oink & the Collect Callers Minus ... over B.D. 
Geritol Express over Much Be«er Off by 18 Rousseau's Noble Savages over The Creamers,Get Ouna Hee! by t 6 
Scratch Twice & the Three Itches over Boyles & 22-20Hungry Rats Who Like To Throw over The Toxic
Dear, I've Lost the Baby ( 33 ). -The Observer 
Other Social Diseases by 7 
Shocks by 2 5 Guys Who Couldn't Thihk of a Real Name over 
Lyons 11

The Big Rapids Bombers over Aka Phoenix by 18 
Too Short, Too Slow ... by 7 Darth & the Light Sabers over Logan's Heroes by 7
X over 5 Guys Whose Dates Never Have To Ask 
Dunkin' Dubs over Sodom & Gomorrah by 2 Dennis Menaces On Dry Land over The Man-gods Where's the Beef?" by 3 Red Red Wine over The Yale Recipe Book & Other by 8
Bookstore 10 

$20.000 Mistakes. 22-20 Sweet Sw1shers over King Charles & the Sexual
The ND-SMC ski team awards banquet wm be held 
The Creamers over Gumby Takes Pokey Up the 
Yank My Doodle. It's a Dandy over Faust Won't Cowboys by 2Rear by?
tonight. Watch for your invitation by mail. For more information,· 
Play Marshall .... 24-22 Junior Wubbas over 2 Who Do. 1 Who Doesn't. 1
The Unbalanced Mettlers over Tripods. 25-23 
Stepan4 

Who Won't ... by 7
call Julie Currie at 283-4434.-The Obseroer 
Congressional Aides over LMA by forfeit 
Windex Gang over Jesse Jackson Paid the Abor­Encore over Pat Ewing & 3 Other Guys that Can't 
Milk & the 4 Udders over Too Short & Not Tall 
tion Bill by 10 Add by 10Enough by 14 John 3:16 over Boy George & the 4 Steroids by 12 
Grizzly Bears On Acid over The Unbalanced Met­Baltic Avenue over 5 Guys That Like To Puke. tiers by 14 Lyons 11 
Againby5 The USS New Jersey & 4 Other Guys With . . over The Modern Lovers over eht seixel syd by 7
An NVA GolfReview, featuring golfpro Dick Walker, 
Lyons 12

Eat At the Y by 15 The Poison Ivy Award Winners over Beta & the 4 Cubiyao? over Captain Punishment & the Chain
will be held tommorrow at 4 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf 
5 Guys You'll Never See or Hear From Again over 
Guppiesby6 Gang by 11Prohibitionist by 3
Course. This will be a refresher class on the fundamentals of the 
Corby Tooters over More Bounce to the Ounce by Captain Larry & His Motley Crew over Duey Oxbur­
As Individuals We Stink But . . over Art Miller & 
8 

ger& the Lean ..by 2
various golfstrokes and is for golfers at all levels who are looking for 
Doug Woog's ... by 16 Brick Throwers over Risky Business by 6 Fun Bunch 5 over Bad Karma by 14
Lyons 12

a short review. The cost is one dollar and registration is through the 
Spoofhounds IV over Doc Johnson's T-Wax by 4 White Ducks Doo't Wear Ties & An Eskimo over
Yank My Doodle. It's a Dandy over Our Little Pol· 
The Shootist over Milwaukee Polo Club by 7 Oscar & the Jumping Juples by 1 0 
NtA office. The number there is 239-6100.-The Obseroer 
lacks Got a Babe by 11 Stepan 5 We Can't Shoot. But We Need Her to Score over A
Performers over Capt. 6-pack & His 6-shot 
The Old & Injured over A Keg. 3 Shots & a Schamp Personal Attack On A by 15Sidekicks by 18 
by? 

Armadillo 5 over Big Rapids Bombers by 9 
The Obsen1er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by maiL Charge is I 0 cents perfive charac­




Classifieds 
ters erda . 
LOST: Set ofkeys. "I love field Hockey" key ring_ Lost Friday afternoon. Maybe around Morrisey. Iffind, please call8118 and ask for 

NOTICES 
Margaret. 
FOUND, A BLACK JERUSALEM BIBLE IN O'SHAG ASK FOR THE NIGHT JANITOR 

lYPINGAVAILABLE-287-4082 FOR INFO. 
PROFESSIONAL lYPIST. IBM 
FOUND BASKETBAll BEHIND 

SELECTRIC U. BUSINESS ll ACADEMIC BOOKSTORE ON FRIDAY APRIL 6. 
EXPERIENCE. 272-3134. 
CLAIM AT LOST ll FOUND IN AD. BLDG. 

GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUB!!!!!!! 
NOW THAT WINTER IS OYER, WILL THE PERSON WHO SWITCHED BLLIE DOWN COATS WITH ME LAST JANUARY AT SENIOR BAR PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL NOlYPING • 6 YRS. EXPERIENCE AT ND. 

QUESTIONS ASKED. YOU KNOW WHO IMY HOME. 277-308S. 

AM, MY NAME IS IN -THERE. 

FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
Lost Keys: lktween Stepan Couns and Library. Pleasecall3125.

THE NOTRE DAME STIIDENT ACTIVITIES 
BOARD PRESENTS: Bus Transportation To 
LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT

O'HARE Cost only S10 Leaving Thursday, 
4B, GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAMEApril I 9th at 12,00P.M.SIGNUPNOWAT 

INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC.

THE RECORD STORE IN LAFORTUNE TANGLE).MEDALHASONLYSENTAMEN· TAL VAlliE (AWARDED TO FATHER INEXPERT TYPIST 277-8~34 AFTER 5,30 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT PLEASE RETURN MEDAL CALL PAliL 272 0746 OR ANN· MARJE 284 5087. 
1 LOST/FOUND 1 r-FoRR~~T 
CASTLE POINT APART. ONE BEDROOM 

LOST KEYS, NEAR THE ACC · RACQUET· FURN. JUNE, JULY. AUGUST SZ50 272·BAI.L COURTS. PLEASE CALL 153 %93CAVANAUGH-1401 WANTED FEMALE ROOMMATE SUMMERFOLINO, UMBRELLA AT STEPHAN 7. CALL 
SESSION nice house good neighborhood

3329 TO IDENTIFY. 
Furnished except for your bedroom. 1 1 I 4 mile from campus Sl40. Mo and 1/2 of LOST monday April9 between Alumni and utilities. Call Coleen after 7:ffi 234-9}70Administration Building silver stainless 

steel watch with day/date and Rolex insig­
nla.REWARD call Carl at 1034 
WANTED

lost: blue wallet with rainbow trim. keep the sc:ntimentaJ pictures·of my friends. just return my license!!! ,,.,... , ........................................ 
WANTED, 2 FEMALE IUOMMATES FOR FOUND, MAROON UMBRELLA OUTSIDE SUMMER AND/ Oil NEXT YEAR AT N.D. ROOM 207 WAL~H. COME AND PICK IT APT. CALL234-I I 70 LIP ANYTIME. 
ad LOST: Gold necklace with diamond NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE· pendant Twenty-first bithda)' present. SCRANTON·PHILA. AREA FOR EASTER SSRtwVarc:l Lall.tR«th 7&1 i 1 J-~-#-~-•-[ ~-.-_.-a-•GAJ:ll.ltM'It·4V.tlliC'..A..'f..:f\t.A~Z34~2l1).2 ' 
Ride needed to CENTRAL MICHIGAN AREA for Easter Break. Can leave ~ed· nesday night. Please call Maggie 2114­5091 
Riders needed to Q. fot Easter call janine 284-4292 
PHOENIX BOUND, BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST I L ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 OR 277-4851. 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. CALL PAUL AT 239·5313 or 277-4851. 
Permanent Part-time Help Wanted. Ap· plicatiOns now being taken. No phone calls please. Pandoras Books 937 South Bend Ave. 
need riders to philadelphia for easter; leave wednesday morn; 277-6250; chris 
NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON FOR EASTER CALL STEVE AT 8105. 
Need ride to SYRACUSE Area for Easter. 
Call8017 

RIDERS NEEDED TO 'MS FOR EASTER 
LEAVlNG WED PM CALL STEVE 8896 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DC AREA FOR EAS· TERCALL MARK 8853 
TEXAS BOUND? I'm gonna be heading to Houswn on the Monday after graduation (May 21) :11d I need a rider. The car's nor huge (a Honda), so plan to leave your baby grand piano here. Also, chain smokers need not apply. Call Mark at 8765. 
$GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDEDS CALL RICH AT 233·5893 
Ride needed to Indiana University Bloomington for Easter lteak. Can leave af. ter 3 Thursday. Please caU Missy 5180SMC 
HOT RADIO OPPORTUNilY FOR AG­GRESSIVE GRAD. LOOKING FOR SALES AND PROMOTIONAL ABILITY. NEED OWN CAR AND PERSISTANCE. REPLY TO BOX 6422, SB, 46660. 
WASHINGfON,D.C. Need ride-will share usuaL Brian 11 39 
RIDE NEEDED to MINN/St.P or to E. LAN· SING, MICH. (MSU) for Easter. Anywhere 
but South Bend! CaU Rly 1101 

need ride to NYC for Easter. call Steve at 6645. 
Riders needed to Northern Newjersey for Easter. Leave Thursday, earlyll! Call Ted at 1779. 
FOR SALE 

IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAYI CAll (312) 742-1142, EXT. 7316. 
TICKETS 

NEED GRADUATION Tl<XETS. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 7781. 
HllGE DOMER family wants to see their last son graduate! DESPERATE for tix. U Call Paul after8pm 234-2510. 
Need TI<KETS for ffiADUATION. Call joel at 1570 
DESPERATELY NEED GRADUA TIION TlX! 
Gm.pay S. Please call Greg at 3317. 

I need 4 grad tix in a big way Call Larry 
1638 

SSS AND HOTEL RES.. TRADE FOR I GRAD. TIX. STEVE 277-6055 
GRADUATION TIX · NEED 2! WILL PAY SS S! CALL MEG HAN AT 726o. PLEASE 
HELP! 

NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. CALL 1695. 
NEED Commencement Tickets! Willing w pay a reasonable price. Call Terry at 
8764. 
WILL TRADE HOTEL RES. (DAYS INN) R>R I GRAD. TIC CALL232·3582 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE, COLD BEER & UQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE II.OCKSOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
COSMOS FEVER. ........ CURE ITitltlfl 
US SSSR=at the rush!! Sell your used textbook now!! Book buying hours Mon­Thur 1-4pm only. Pandora BJoks 937 South Bend Ave. 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS' Learn How to Fill 
Out the Placement Proffie Form. Moo~ day, April 16, 7 p.m. Rm. 124 Hayes­Healy. Paul Reynolds of Career and ftacement Services. 
Hey stoneface, lighten up. 
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT 
THANKS ST JUDE 
AnTostal returns with 

KISSER Sign up MONDAY, April 16 In Lafortune from 12,30-3,00 and 5::JJ­7d0 at the OBUD desk. PRIZES(and kisses) awardedlll 
I HAVE HOTEL RESERVATIONS IN ROSELAND· WILL TRADE FOR GRAD TIX. CALL1695. 
Dan Schlehuber, Congratulations on your acceptance to ND! Your lro' and Sis' are looking forward to seeing you here next 
, .,yea,r. -1 • • ............ . 
HIBetht 
Summer Olympic tickets for sale · call An· ra Marie at 1335 
GOOD JOB BOOKSTORE SCOREKEEPERS! KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK. 
WHY, OH WHY, DID I TAKE AL300? 
TOM-1003 JUST \l'HEN YOU THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO ANSWER THE PHONE, THE CHICKENS RETURN IN DOLBY STEREO 
ZIPPY,PINHEADJJ,BLOTIO. COME KISS HIS BEAUfiFliL BEACH BALL BODY TODAY,HIS 2I st BIRTHDAY, IN CllJB lQ I SORJN. HE WILL APPREOATE YOUR 
HEARrFELT JOY. (If a visit is difficult, call 
8437) 
PROVE TO 'lOUR FRIENDS THAT YOll CAN READ--READ DURING THE SHAKESPEARE MARATHON. FOR DETAILS CALL SUSIE-3821, JOHN-239· 7735 OR OMBliD-6283. 
Tired of going to bed alone? Tired of going to bed alone? Tired of going to bed alone? Tired of going to bed alone? Tuck-ins are coming!!!! 
ATrENT!ON, lAST CHANCE FOR SOPHO­MORE CLASS SHIRTS!! ON SALE IN DINING HALL MON-TlES DURING DIN­
NER!!!! ONLY SlO!!!!! ONLY 110!!!! 
Theo Majors: Do not miss the presenta­tion by Kathleen LivingSton on Tuesday,Aprll17, 9d0PM In room II~ Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's CoUege. Be there to support your fellow stu~ dl:nts. 
DEATH TO FAGS Poe 
Maripat: I love you, I love you, I love: you, l love you! love, Your secret admirer 
................................................. Summer Olympic tickets-caH Anna Marie 1·6S,BA.MA BOUND & all points between at 1335. '.-11?"'"JYk0·1353 _•...• .• • ..•••...••• ·,_~.,."ffo.,.•,.•,_",_·. I,,,-~·~ 

The Observer Monday, April 16, 1984 -page 10 
Today~ schedule 
Today'a Games Stepan 1 4 00 -Snowbunny & H1s Reced1ng Hareline v Were As Hot As Andropov 4 45-Sons Of Thunder VIII v Backboard Trash 
5.30 -Ed Sm1erc1ak & 4 Other Guys That 
Notre Dame 6.15-Padres v Brother Campbell's Cobra Crew 
7.00 -Pole Face & the South Bend Tards v. Casper the Fnendly Coach 
Stepan2 4 00-Tanmasters v. 5 Guys Named Moe 4 45-Schlongers v Team 136 5 30-Mr Bob & H1s Dog Slug v CRAMMII 6 15 -Cathenne the Great Meets Mr. Ed v A 
Black. A Jew. A Cnpple 7:00-4 Gnngos & a Sp1c v. 5 Guys With Good 
Hands Stepan 3 
4 00 -Captaon Lips & the Amaz1ng Zulu Brothers 
v Where·s the Beef' 
4 45-Performers v As Individuals We Slink. But 
As A Te~m We Suck 5 30-Where's the Oueet v The Capta1n Made Us Dolt 
6 15 _ SONF v The B-Man sTeam 7 00-5 Good Reasons For A New Alcohol Policy v Rythm Method Baboes Stepan 4 
4·00-1 Jew & the 4 Sk1ns v Destined To Lose By 
2 
4 45-1 Of Us Hasthe Clap v Dust 
5 30-Playong Without McNabs v D1rty Harelip 
7:00-Free Wheeltn' v. Ou«a Here 
Stepan 5 

4:00 -4 Guys That Would Rather Be At Ouar· ter . v. The Vacuum Effect 
11'""'""'""'"-MMH -. 
Roc.co's Hair · 

Styling 
l'!"t'~f>l> ;0:.1Js~ I 

i
! 531 N. Michigan St.. 
i. Phone 233-4957 •
a&.........................................~.....­
4 45 -Dyspeunta (aka Fopdi) v. 5 Guys Who Didn't Have To Live In A Bubble 5.30-FA.O. v. 5 Guys You'll Never See Or Hear From Aga1n 6 15 -Bleed1ng Ax Wounds II v The Dry Heaves Stepan 6 4 00 -Lean Muscles & a Couple of Squ1rts v. 4 While Guys & An Extra Tendon 
4.45-While Lightning v. Tom Veblin .Stoned 
5:30-S1ck IndiVIduals v. 4 D1rtballs & a Dog 
6.15-Congratulations Phil & Alisa v. We Be Yo Dates Bookstore9 4.00-In Dire StraitS v. Tim Jacob & 4 Guys Who Are Just Fnends Wtlh 
4 45-Congressional Atdes v. In the Crowd 
5:30-Macri's Deli v. Bob Barker & the Wa1lers 
6·15 -Coonan & the Barbanansv Carmine Marro Has a Fever Bookstore 10 4 00-5 Buzzards Circling Rose Kennedy v J.J. Wahle & HIS 4 Inches 
4 45 -5 JournaliSts Who Know a Good Layout v G1ve Us Mucha Chocha 
5:30-Return Of P1gbag v. Academia Nuts 
To6T~~o-: Nutmeggers VIII v Hungry Rats Who Like 
Lyons11 4 00 _The Screamers v Showlime 
4 45 -Chsst v. We Might Not Get Many Po1nts But We Score A Lot Anyway 5.30-We Are the Beet v Doyle·s Gem1ni er:.15-WBBS On the Air Aga~n v. The Fudge Pack­
Lyons12 
4·00-Malaka's 5 v. 4 Jerks & A Dnbbler IV 
4 45-Motown v. Teddy's Bears 
5:30-Chicks Dtg Us v. Yes. We Will Lose In !he F1rst Round 6 15-Tequila White L1ghtmng IV v. Newton·s Fal­
1
lacy 

SUMMIJR STORAGII SPACII 
Special discount for KDlSMO student• 
(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 
CALL 259·0335 to RIJSIRVE SPACI SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKilfLIJY 816 East Me Kinley 
Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
Live-~ 

Entertainment Tues., April17 featuring Sherri Woods 
in the lounge 

Tht. t. not a misprint 


lOc_TACO BAR 
San.-Thurs. 9pm-close 
Late Night Happy Hour 
San.-Than. 10pm-close 1 
$1.00 MARGARITAS 
2 for 1 BARDRINKS 
(five •ln•t..fro• ca•p••) 
139 W. JlfkiUaley Awe. ........walLa, ........ 46545 



Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
and ]oe Bilik made 6-of-I6 for Red Red Wine. 
Individual standouts in yester­day's games include Ed Hjerpe, who led The Windy City Five to a 2I-7 victory over Dead on Arrival. The Windy City Five, which played with only four players in that game, shot an impressive 21 -for-.38. 
Jack McLaughlin retained his crown (earned last week) as the best of The Modern Lovers by making eight of his nine shots in yesterday's 21-14 win over Eht Seixd Syd. 

Rick Louthan hit II-of-I.3 to lead I Armed and Dangerous II past BVK; 2I-I 5, and Todd Kingman made IO­of-I.3 for Windex Gang, which downed.Jessejackson Paid the Abor­tion Bill, 21-I I. 
Father Ed (Monk) Malloy was the 
shooter for The Shootist, which 
eliminated the Milwaukee Polo 
Club, 2I-14. Malloy hit I 0-of-14 for 
the winners ofthat contest. 
This weekend saw two other 


...... 

IMPORTANT NOTICE TO ALL STUDENTS " 
Changes In Theology Requirements 
--All University Students are required to take two courses (6 credits) in Theology. --These requirements are met as follows: 
THE0100(FYS)or F d t· OfTh I B'bl' 1/H' .
THEO 200 (SOPHOMORES)-oun a lOriS eo ogy: I ICa lStoncal 
THEO 201 -299 · -A second course in Theology (Various topics in the Catholic doctrinal tradition treated comprehensively. See Course Listings.) 
Courses numbered 300 and above are Electives in Theology and no longer meet the Theology requirement :­
Cards for check-marked courses will be available on the following 
schedule: 

Seniors Room 330 O'Shag Thurs. April12 Openat7am. Juniors Room 330 O'Shag Fri. April13 Open at 7am. Sophomores Room 330 O'Shag Tues. April17 7 -8:30pm.
(Note:. Evening Registration) .. , , . ·..... ,,..., 
teams leave the tournament without 
losing a game. Two teams were 
ejected because they played with 
players who had already played for 
other teams in this year's tourna­
ment. Blumb says he hopes he and 
his assistants can stay ahead of these 
illegal players. 
Meanwhile, the second round continues. Today is the second ­and last -day of the 256-team round, and there are several good games scheduled. 
At 4 p.m., one good game is on Stepan 5, where Four Guys That Would Rather be at Quarter Beer Night and One Guy That Would Rather be at Lewis meet The 
,. ,.,..~~ '7~. 


r-----------------~----~ 
Only $7.50 for a 


Monday 
one-item, 16" pizza plus two Cokes~ 
One coupon per pizza. Expires in two weeks. 

Madness 
Fast, Free DellveryN 
Good at listed 
locations. 
40600 I 265D-4
II. 


t­f·t.,n" 
L••••••••••••••••••••••J 

-

_____________________. 
Vacuum Effect. Meanwhile, on Lyons I I, The Screamers take on Showtime. 

At 5:.30 p.m., the place to be is he­hind the bookstore. Macri's Deli meets Bob Barker and the Waiters on Bookstore 9, and Return of Pig­hag takes on Academia Nuts on Bookstore I 0. 
At 6:15 p.m., you can pick your favorite courts and still find a good game. Bleeding Ax Wounds II will play The Dry Heaves on Stepan 5, Nutmeggers VIII meet llungry Rats Who Like to Throw on Bookston: I 0, and Tequila White Lightning IV goes up against Newton's Fallacy on Lyons 12. 
Fast, Free.J 
_..

Delive..y-­
Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive yourself with a well-rounded meal frorrr­Domino's Pizza. We'll 
~~~p0~~~~rt~~~~:~wrinkles 
Call us. 

277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 



233·3133 
1428 Calvert St. 

289·7100 
4333 W. Western 

277·8700 
51400 U.S. 31 North 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery area 
C1984 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 




~c:tcJlC3l~--------------------------------------~M~o~n~d~ay•,-Ap•r-il_1_6_,1_9_8_4___
P_ag•e-1_1 

Bloom Connty 
Mellish 
HEV '1011! 8111 I'H A 
UP IVITH /IIAN 6! THl 
VI/IR HANDJ/ tiOTH,., THIS IS A OII,Alli/6HI. 
sn;·IIP/ \ 
Guindon Richard Guindon 


Berke Breathed 
~S, fT !'ROMISW1lJ BE t'1 71~ 77J REM£148€R / 
Dave 
THIS 5EASON­
PJUISE, F~THER, \ 
I'M A rm.IIC! 

The Far Side Gary larson 

39 Omega's 51 Sheol relatives 52 Los Angeles 
40 Borgnlne problem and Heming· 53 Egyptian way cotton 
41 Plane 54 Arab port 
letters 55 Heraldic 42 Bettered term 43 Friendly 
for wool mulberry 49 Bitter drug 60 Business 50 Duplicate abbr. 
Friday's Solution 



Campus 

•12:15 
p.m. -Economics Workshop, "The Potential Impact ofThailand's Alcohol Program on Production Consumption, and Export of Cassava, Sugarccane, and Corn," Prasarn Boonserm, Library Auditorium 

•2:30 
p.m. -CEDD Session II, "Trepassing: Economy, Politics, and Soiety," CCE 

•3 
p.m. -Seminar, "Corona Wind and Tur­bulence in Electrostatic Percipitators," Dr. Jane Dayidson, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•5 
p.m. -Lecture, "Three Novelists in Search of Lope," Fernando Del Paso, 242 O'Shaughnessy 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting of the Student Senate, 124 Hayes Healy 

•7 
p.m. -Workshop, "Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out the Placement Proflle Form," Paul Reynolds, I24 Hayes Healy , Sponsored by Career and Place­ment 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "On the Waterfront," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Wavelength," and 'SherlockJr.," Center for Social Conerns Auditorium, 

•7 
and 9 p.m. -Film, "In Our Hands," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Peace With Justice Week, S1 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "Jesus Christ Superstar," Chautauqua, Sponsored by Student Union, SI 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "Playwrights Premier," 7 short student plays, Little Theatre, Free 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Can A Male Be a Feminist?" Prof Daniel Maguire, Library Lounge, Sponsored by ND Women's Caucus 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series II, "Tom Jones," Annenberg Auditorium 



TV Tonight 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 32 Road hazard 62 London 12 Sword 1 Wire 35 Gummed gallery 13 Quantity6 Georgeor paper 63 Threefold of paper Artie 36 Hairdo 64 Plank or 18 Join up 10 Beverage 37 Monarch way 14 Perfume 38 Allergy 65 Pung 23 Rani's root indications 66 Unitsof garment15 Mex. food 42 Listens force 25 Polly16 Leather 45 Pancake Hollidaybottle makers DOWN role 
17 More likely 46 Heath 1 -Rica to cause 47 Portable 2 Fr. city 26 Tiny falls shelter 3 lnvigora· lengths:
19 Olive 48 Remnant ting abbr. genus 49 Ger. ex· 4 Flanges 27 Kind of 20 Hardy girl clamation catch
5 Sixth

21 Nothing 52 Scanty 29 Like
sense

22 Honor 55 Sch. subj. 30 Take care 
6 Grooved 

24 Inquire 56 -Nazimova 31 Units of
7 Greeting

25-Lippo work
57 South of word 

Lippi 
France 8 Aviator 26 Fuel 58 Fragrant 9 Exhausted 32 History27 Piggy bank tree 10 Onewho 33 Point-
necessity 61 Straw in fawns return 28 Chloride the wind 11 She: Fr. 34-bien 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 


16 Barney Miller 
22 Family Feud 
28 Wheel ofFortune 
16 Movie: "Jesus ofNazarath Pt.II" 
22 CBS Special It's FlashBeagle Charlie 
Brown 28 Automan 22 Kate and Allie 28 ABC Monday Night Movie 22 Newhart, 22 Cagney and Lacey 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

"PICTURE N.D." 

and now the film ...

PHOTO CONTEST 

ANORMAN JEWISON Film 
..JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR'' 
~ 
1st Prize: $60 of camera accessories 
and $20 cash 
*plus other prizes 
Deadline: May 4 
Applications at OBUD desk, LaFortune 

at CHAUTAUQUA Tues. April17 & Wed. April18 
7:30, 9:30, 11:30 Adm$1 
Monday, Apri116, 1984-page 12




_S.~orts 
Bookstore XIII 


'Old Men' and 'Savages' survive 
By PHIL WOLF !>eau's Nohle Savages that emerged wearing T-shirts from Mkhigan 
-

.\ports Writer victorious, 22,20. State, Miami, Piusburgh, Pt·nn State, Both teams shot surprisingly well and Air Force -the five teams that 
It was only second-round overall in this heated contest. The heat the Irish in 1983. Bookstore action yesterday, hut it Creamers'Jim Erac:i shot a miserable "We wt·re going to let them win looked like the final .32. There were 2-of-14, but teammates Keith until we saw that," Faust said of till: several very close games, a few up­Veselik (6-of-7) and Mike Doyle (9-T-shirts. "Then we decided to play." 
sets, and lots if intense play, as some of-16) kept the team in the game l'our otht·r games went into of Bookstore Xlll's hest teams with a team total of20-for-44. overtime yesterday. Bungholes had clashed on the asphalt courts. Brian Behmer led the winners, to score 27 points to gain a two­
One of the closest games yester­shooting 7-of-14 and grahhing 13 point vic:tol)' over Milk and the Four day afternoon was the 6:4S p.m. rebounds for Rousseau's Noble Udders. Ten-of-22 shooting hy John matchup between The Creamers Savages, who shot 22-for-4<; as a Marvin and an H-for-13 mark for Jeff and Rousseau's Noble Savages on t<:am. Russell hdpc:d the: Bunghoks n·ach Bookstore I 0. Another game yesterday which that total. 
The game was dose all tht· way, as proved to be Vel)· exciting was Old Yank My Doodle, It's a Dandy rode neither team could open up a lead of Men on the: Block against Your to a 24-22 vktOI)' over Faust \Von't more than two points. Then, with freudian Slip is Showing. Gerry Play Marshall but We Will on the 9­the score at 17-16 in favor of The Faust and his team. making their first of-19 shooting of Roh Craig. Tht· Creamers and the light fading quick­appearance ever in the second game wao; still in progress as the sun ly, Rousseau's Nohle Savages lost Ed round of Bookstore Basketball, set last night, hut the playc:rs refust·d Roohan, who left the game with a emerged victorious in the hard to move from Stepan 3 to Stepan 6, knee injury. The Savages fought fought hattie, which was con­an illuminated court, daiming that back, however, and soon they were siderably more serious than the Old "this is what Bookstore is all about." on the verge of winning, with the Men's first-round game against the Jimmy G and tht· Spots pulled an score 20-18. Esophagus Constrictors. upset over set·ded Windy City Ac­
The Creamers were not going to "They (members of Your tion, 22-20. B<Uh teams are ladt·n 
The.-()hM:rvcr/lbum 8radlt·y 

lie down for a team with only four Freudian Slip is Showing) called my with foot hall players, hut it was Scott 
The Old Mer1 On The Hlot-·k (dark uniforms) got s1t1pped by Your players, and they sent the game into secretary to see if we were going to Grooms (8-for-24 ), Jim Gardnl'f ( 6­Freudian Slip Is Showing, but overcame embarrassment and a overtime hy tying the score at 20. show up," said Faust, whose team for-15 ), and Rick Naylor ( 'i-for-16) lt•nacious defense /o win. Phil Wolf bas all the details on a busy The overtime dragged on, ao; hoth forfeited in last year's second round. who dominatt·d Joe Johnson ( 9-for­u•eekend ofBookstore XIII. teams had trouble finding the hoop "Well, we showed up." 27) and the rest of Windy City Ac­
in the dark. In the end, it wao; Rous-The Old Men showed up, indeed, tion. and they all added to the 21-19 vic­"It's the draw that these teams tory hy scoring and crashing the get," Bookstore Commissioner Jeff 
hoards. Every player on the team Blumh explained. "It's all random, had at least three points and two and that's the way it happened ­

Francisco moves to defensive back 
rebounds. Of course, that st·oring they heat the seed." By LARRY BURKE hc:rs with I I carries for H3 yards and IRISH ITEMS . . . In addition to 
was not easy, and tht· Old Men on The fifth overtime victory of the Sports Writer two touchdowns. Byron Abraham, Flemons, the following players are 
tb~ Block took an amazing 8'i shots day belongs to Red Red Wine, whkh working with the No. 2 offensivt· out with injuries: fullback Dave to make 21. gained a 
22-20 win over The Yale 
As is usually the: cast· in spring unit, pkkc:d up 'i I yards and two Machtolf, defensive end Mike Golic, 
Your Freudian Slip is Showing Recipe Book and Otht·r $20,000 lilothall st-rimmage~. there were touchdowns on I 7 carries, and nose tackle John McCabe, linehack­
tried to play on the emotions of the Mistakes. Mike Tcs.o;itore hit 7-of-1 'i. somt· good thing~ and some had adtlc:d 27 yards on thrc:e pass recep­cr Dave Butler, free safety Van 
football coa<:hes hy reminding thc:m things ohsc:rvc:d hy the Irish coach­tions. Pearcy and cornerback Trey of their losses in last fall's campaign. 
see BOOKSTORE, page 10

ing staff during Sawrday's practice !.ester fkmons, another taknted Coleman. 
The team appeared on the court 
st·ssion. But whether or not tht· good tailback, sat out tht· scrimmage as a outnumhc:red the had is still a 
prtTautional)' measure, after suffer­Men's tennis team 
tkhatahle issue. ing a minor injury in friday's Prohahly the: higgt·st hright spot workout. for coach GtTI)' Faust and his staff Allen Pinkt·tt, mc:anwhile played 

Weekend split ends Irish win streak 
was tht· t·mc:rgc:ncc: of placc:kicker in his first scrimmage of the spring, Pat Chura, a 'i-6, US pound, sopho­rushing nine times for 31 yards and a By CHUCK FREEBY last Thursday. "It's a hig rival!)• for another hig rivalry for us, and it mort: walk-on who could he: Notre: touchdown. !.ports Writer us, and we wanted to win badly after would ht· a good win if we could Dame's next "small wondc:r." "I thought we ran well because: losing the la'>t two years. But now we lx-at them after they heat us S-4 last 
A soccc:r-stylc: kickc:r from St. the: offensive line played physical All good things must come to an have to get ready for Purdue. That's year." l.ouis, Chura spent last sc:ason as a football," said offensive: coordinator end, and unfortunately the Notre walk-on kkkt·r at Purdue. lie always Ron Hudson. Dame tennis team had to learn that dreamc:d of kkking for Notre: Dame, As impressive as the running game lesson the hard way, as the Irish saw howevc:r, so he: transferred after the: was, the pas.o;ing offense is still a con­their eight-match winning streak 'H2 season and sat out last year. cern of Hudson. Although there snapped in a S-4 loss to Ohio State at Chura certainly didn't hurt his were no intern·ptions on Saturday, the ACC Friday afternoon. chancc:s on Saturday hy hooting fic:ld there were too many poorly thrown However, the Irish bounced back goals of2H and 'i2 yards and adding a and dropped passt·s for Hudson's from the loss to earn a split in the couple: oft•xtra points. liking. triangular meet hy defeating Mar­
Sophomore walk-on John Carney, First-stringer Steve Beuerlein quette, 7-2, Saturday morning at tht· tht· t•arly-spring favorite to assume managed to l·omplete 9-of-18 pao;s Courtney Tennis Center. the: placekicking chorc:s of graduat­attt·mpts for I 0 3 yards. Backup Scott "It wao; a good weekend, hut the ing Mike: Johnston, was two-of-four Grooms complc:tcd 6-of-10 for 49 loss to Ohio State was disappoint­on his fidd goal attempts, hitting yards with the second unit. Fresh­ing," remarked Irish coach Tom fal­from 22 and 2'i yards, hut missing man Joe felitsky was the victim of lon, who saw his squad's record from 'i2 and 46 yards. the most dropped pas.o;cs, connect­move to 18-7 over the weekend. "I 


Another walk-on, Ted (iradcl, was ing on only 4-of-1 7 for 66 yards. knew Ohio State would he tough at the: vi<:tim ofa had hold on a 4 !-yard On the receiving end, Mark the top ofthcir lineup, but I thought attt·mpt. Gradel did hit on his only Bavaro had a husy day, hauling in we would be a little stronger in the PAT opportunity ofthe afternoon, as five pas.o;es for 6S yards. Bavaro's bottom singles." did sophomore Hal Von Wyl, who is backup at tight end, Joel Williams, "Any good team can adjust to coming ha<:k from arthroscopic sur­had three receptions, as did playing indoors," commmented Fal­gc:ry on his knee. Ahraham. The wide receivers lon afterwards. "Unfortunately, 
Another pleasant surprise for the caught only three passes in the though, moving indoors doesn't Irish t·oa<:hes was an old favorite nmrse ofthe scrimmage. help us against a team like Ohio State who turnt·d up in a new place. Defensively, the Irish continued because we are not a strong serve­
Hiawatha Francisco, the flashy to make progress in Saturday's and-volley team." freshman who hacked-up Allen scrimmage, as Mike Gann, Mike Grif­The next day signs offatigue from Pinkt·tt at tailhack for most of last fin, and Greg Dingens all turned in playing five matches in six days season, playc:d free saft·ty on Satur­fine performances on the line. began to show on the Irish players, day, after making the switch in Linebackers Tony Furjanic and Mike but they still managed to have a fair­Friday's practice. Francist·o spent Kovaleski also played well, as did ly easy time with Marquette. tht· majority of the: day with the Mike Larkin at his new outside While the Warriors have not done sc:nmd unit lx-hind Stc:ve l.awrence, linebacker position. Rick DiBer­badly against Irish basketball teams, hut did St't' action with the: starting nardo was also impressive at outside they came into Saturday's match tt·am as a nickel hack. linebacker, showing no effects from with an 0-3 l record against Notre 
"lliawatha is a great athlc:te," said a pair of hamstring injuries suffered Dame in tennis, and it quickly Faust. "We askc:d him to make the earlier this spring. became apparent that waiting.until move lx-cause we want our hc:st 22 the match wao; over to add loss num­playc:rs on the: field. If ht• works out "It was a useful scrimmage," said her 32 was merely a formality. and he likes it, hc:'ll stay there." defensive coordinator Andy Chris­Gibbons summed up the feelings 
Francisco's move: was made pos­toff. "Although fundamentals and of the team well after the weekend's ssihle hy the emergence: ofsevt·ral of techniques are not quite there yet, action "We were really disappointed his dassmates at the tailback spot. the effons, the mental toughness with the loss to Ohio State," com­The most impressive of these: was were. We're working with more in­mented the junior from Miami who 
Alonzo Jefferson, who had another tensity now than we were earlier in was selected as the Midwestern City good day Saturday, leading all rus-the spring." Conference "Athlete of the Week" 






