Greg Bell -·page 8 
VOL XVIII, NO. 136 

Mondale blasts Reagans lack of respect for law in ND talk 
ByJOHN NEBLO 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Democratic Presidential Can­didate Walter Mondale blasted President Reagan for his "failure to uphold the law" in a Law Day address to the students and faculty of Notre Dame Law School yester­day in Washington Hall. 
Mondale declared he would make Reagan's lack of respect for the law "a fundamental issue of the cam­paign." 
Mondale charged that the Reagan Administration seemed to "stagger from injustice to injustice" with regard to civil rights, women's rights, and environmental protec­tion. Among his criticisms, Mondale claimed that Reagan had "trashed" the Civil Rights Commission, sup­ported racial discrimination in education, "assaulted" the legal services program, and failed to en­force EPA laws. "This Administra­tion thinks executing laws means shooting them," Mondale said. 
Mondale next attacked the "long line of officials in the Reagan Ad­ministration mired in controversy." He contends that Reagan has not set high standards of behavior for him­selfor his adminstrators, citing as ex­amples former Secretary of the Interior James Watt, formtrr EPA Director Ann Gorsuch, and Attorney General nominee Edwin Meese. 
In an obvious reference to the controversy surrounding Meese, Mondale said, "my Attorney General will be held to the highest stan­dards." Concerning Watt, he quipped, "he'd rather take a polluter to lunch than to court." 
Criticizing Reagan for violations of international law, Mondale said, "it now appears the OA planned and payed for the mining of Nicaraguan harbors," as well as other acts ofwar. 
Mondale stressed the need for all nations to obey international law. He indicated 1:\:agan's refusal to recognize any decision by the World Court concerning Central America might jeopardize American "moral authority" which, accordng to Mondale, is a vital component ofU.S. world leadership. 
Mondale never once mentioned Democratic rivals Sen. Gary Hart and Rev. JesseJackson during his 25­minute address, preferring to limit himselfto criticism of Reagan. 
Mondale did, however, patronize his Notre Dame audience by reveal­ing the "true" motive behind his visit. Said Mondale, "In 1976, I came here to speak as a vice presidential candidate and won. In 1980 I forgot to come and lost. Now it's 1984,I'm here at Notre Dame, and you know what comes next ..." 
Mondale's address was witnessed by a packed house of students and faculty as well as a small army of journalists and photographers in Washington Hall. After the address, Law School Dean David T. Link, a for­mer legal partner of Mondale, presented him with a plaque as a token ofappreciaton. 

D.C. primary is Jackson's first win 
Associated Press 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson won the 
District ofColumbia primary yester­
day, the ftrst election victory of his 
Democratic presidential candidacy. 
in his bid to stop Gary Hart's self­proclaimed comeback before it could begin. 
Jackson took 63 percent of the "morning" vote in the heavily black capital city. Mondale was running second and Hart third. 
In Tennessee, returns showed Mondale running well ahead of his rivals, and CBS news said it was projecting a Mondale victory. 
The two primaries, with 80 na­tional convention delegates combined, marked the end of a three-week campaign lull. They formed the leading edge ofa wave of contests to select 717 delegates over the next week and to test Hart's vow ofa comeback. 
Mondale and Hart effectively 

Walter F. Mondale led in Tennessee 

conceded Washington, D.C., and the  cent.  
majority of its I5 delegates to Jack­ Hart, 21,622, 32 percent  
son, and chose to make Tennessee  Jackson, 15,548, 23 percent.  
and  its  65  delegates  their  bat­ Thus,  Mondale  led  for  30  
tleground.  delegates, Hart for 24, Jackson for  
President  Reagan  was  the only  II.  
candidate on the Republican ballot  After a startling string of victories  
in both primaries. The District ofColumbia reported morning votes just after polls closed at 8 p.m. EDT. They showed: Jackson 24,I99, 63 percent. Mondale, II,407, 29.7 percent. Hart, 2,921, 7.6 percent.  early in the year, Hart has not won a primary election since Connecticut on March 27. Mondale defeated him in Illinois, New York and Pennsylva­nia in late winter to re-establish him­selfas the clear front-runner for the nomination.  Tbe Observer/Cam/Gales, Pete /.a,-bf!:, Above, Walter Mandate tells a packed house ofReagan's 'failure to uphold the law" in his Law Day address yesterday morning in Washington Hall. Below, Mondale is seen leaving the ball sur­rounded by reporters and dignitaries including Mayor ofSouth BendRogerParent.  

If Jackson's lead held after after­noon and evening votes were 
Students requested to return letters
counted, the influential civil rights leader would have I 0 delegates and Mondale 5. 
Mondale began the day with 


objecting to alcohol policy today 


ByANNE GALLAGHER 

News Staff 
Summer camp isn't just for kids. 
A group of approximately 20 people from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community will spend two weeks discovering art, nature and science at the Redbud workshop summer program, in Buchanan, Mich., early this summer. 
For more than ten years, Saint Mary's College Art Department has been offering these workshops at the Redbud camp which allow students an opportunity to 

The Ol>Krvcr/CarolGales broaden their understanding ofthe concept ofnature in
CILA protest 
an area of art or biology. The workshops run seven 

Mrs. RobertSmith, wife ofone ofthe dining ball managersfired hours a day, six days a week, and at the completion of last November, speaks to senior Kerry Zalud in front of North the two week period the student will have earned three DininK Hall during lunch yesterday. credit hours. 
1,203.05 delegates, compared with 

648.75 for Hart and I82.2 for Jack­By KEITH HARRISON,Jr. son. SeniorStaffReporter 
In TenneJSee, with 22 percent of 2,39I precincts reporting, the Student government has asked all results were: students to sign and return a Jetter 
Mondale, 27,597 votes, or 41 per-objecting to the new University al­cohol policy and directives by 4 p.m. 
today, according to Bryan Dedrick, alcohol concerns commisionner for student government. 
"It's important that we get this done quickly," said Dedrick. Student government representatives will take the letters to the Campus Life Council meeting today at 4 p.m. in Flanner Hall's party room. 
The letter, written by Dedrick, was distributed to members at last night's Hall President's Meeting. "We're going to try to get the directives changed, and we need a show of student support," said Dedrick. 
The letter states "several obvious revisions must be made concerning the restrictions and limitations of the alcohol policy and directives. These revisions must be adopted to concur with the mutual goal of a realistic and healthy social environ­ment." 
The letter concludes "it is 'im­perative that student input be understood on issues affecting all of our lives." 

"This letter is very, very impor­tant," said Student Body Vice Presi­dent Cathy David. David also said the Campus Life Council meeting is. open to the entire student body. 
Faculty Course Evaluation forms were also discussed at the HPC meeting. "They sound like a great idea to me, but I understand that the student response so far has been weak," said Keenan Vice President Mike Prados. 
"If they don't get a certain per-
see HPC, page 3 




Redbud campers study art, nature 
Co-ordinator of the workshop, Bill Sandusky, was quick to point out that the program is open to everyone. "There are no prerequisites," he stated. "And there is a limit of 10 people to a class so we are able to give a lot of individual attention." 
He emphasized that the program is open to every major. "It is surprising how creative some ofthe non-art majors are," he said. 
Redbud will take place from March 21-June 2. Courses offered this summer are drawing and painting, printmaking, pottery and sculpture, and field biology. Numerous guest lectures and ftlms will accompany the courses. 
The total cost, including room, board, and transporta­tion is $444. "I would encourage anyone to take ad­vantage of it," Sandusky said. "It is an unusual opportunity ideally timed at low cost." 


.------------------------------~-----~-­
The Observer 


In Brief . 
A New Center for Spiritualityat Saint Mary's 
has been approved by the Board of Regents, says Religious Studies Chairman Father Keith Egan. The project, expected to officially ap­pear about a year down the road, is still in its developing stages, and further information will not be revealed until Saint Mary's President John Duggan returns from an overseas trip on Monday. -Tbe Ob­seroer 
The Knights ofColumbusNotre Dame Council 
last Thursday installed its officers for the 1984-85 school year. In­
stalled were Grand Knight, Joseph Piccolo; Deputy Grand Knight, R. 
Chris Stune; Chancellor, James Creely; Recorder, James Bleyer; 
Financial Secretary, LoysJuday; Warden, Duane Webster; Treasurer, Scott Morrison; Advocate, Earl Baker; Inside Guard, Brian Aquadro; Outside Guard, Paul johnson; and Trustees, Thomas Duffy and Brian Sinclair. The ceremony was officiated by the District Deputies from South Bend and Mishawaka. The Knights ofColumbus is a charitable and fraternal organization founded in New Haven, Conn. in 1882.­Tbe Obseroer 
Led by a surge in defense spending, orders to 
li.S. factories rose 2.2 percent in March, the largest increase in six months, the government said yesterday. However, analysts said the 
new report -far from showing a booming economy -actually pointed to more sluggish growth. With the volatile defense category removed, orders were up a meager 0.02 percent, providing further evidence of slower business activity in March. The Commerce Department said orders for manufactured goods climbed to S195.6 hill ion in March, posting the best monthly gain since a 2.3 percent jump last September. But in the closely watched category of non­defense capital goods, orders actually dropped 1.6 percent. This category reflects industry plans to add equipment to boost produc­tion and is thus considered a good indicator of future business growth. -AP 
The share of Americans who own their own 
homes has declined for the first time in at least 20 years, the Census Bureau said yesterday. Housing costs and other economic factors were blamed by housing experts questioned about the figures. The drop in ownership between 1980 and 1983 was disclosed in a spe­cial study on homeownership trends, which also indicated that the 
ownership decline may have eased by the end oflast year. The share of ll.S. households that owned their home dropped from 65.6 per­n·nt in 19'80 to 64.6 percent last year, after gradually declining in 1981 and 1982, according to the report. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Department of Music will present ,Con­
stance E. Barrett in a graduate cello recital today at 4:1 5 in the An­nenherg Auditorium. Barreu will he accompanied by Professor William Cerny, pianist, and joined by cellists Denise Kuehner and Theresa Timmerman. Works by Beethoven, Popper, and Shos­takovich will he performed. The recital is free and open to the public. -Tbe Obsen,er 
Domino,s Pizza's FounderPresident and Chair­
man of the Board Thomas Monaghan will serve as guest speaker at the Saint Mary's College Business Associates Luncheon May 3. Domino's is the world's largest pizza delivery company and the second largest pizza chain in the country. Monaghan also owns the Detroit Tigers baseball franchise which he purchased in October, 1983. The Saint Mary's Business Associates is a development program that strengthens the relationship between the Michiana 
community and tht· College. The luncheon is scheduled for noon, after which Monaghan will talk. -Tbe Obsen1er 
Democratic Congressional Candidate 
Jeremy Bolinger and Andrew Rortstcin ofthe Chicago Chapterofthe Fusion Energy Foundation will debate Michael Brennan, the former president of the Notre Dame Chapter of Ground Zero. The topic of the debate will he weapons in space. It is to he held in the Multi­purpose Room of tht: Cent~r for Social Concerns this evening at 
7.-Tbe Obsen.•er 
A noon hour rap will take place today from I I :30­
1: I<; p.m~ on the fieldhouse mall. An open microphone will b~ availahk inviting student comments on campus-wide, national and global issues. In the case of rain, the forum will be moved to Lafortune. This is to become a weekly event. -The Obsen1er 

Weather 
' 
Sorry sunbathers, today will be mostly cloudy and cool with a 20 percent chance ofrain. High in low 60s. A 70 percent chance ofshowers tonight and Thursday. Warmer tonight with low in mid to upper 40s. High Thursday in low to mid 60s. -AP · 
The Observer 
The Ob..,rver ( t ·~PS ~')<J l~ tllllll) " puhli~ht:d Mond~~ throul(h l;rida~ .tnd on honw toochall ~acun.I~IY!t. l'Sl't.'Jll durirlK t'Xolnl and \·;acacion pt:rioth. The Ob~rv~r i.\ puhli~hcc.l h~ lht· Mut.knl!~! ut' tlu: l'nin•rsll\' uf ~·urt· l>anu· and Saint Man·~ Collt'M'-' ~uh!tt:riplion!t ma~ hl' pun·hased for 5l~ pt·r )Tar ( S 1 ~ pn s•:mt·stt·r) h) wrltint~ The Ob..,rver, P 0 llox Q. Notrt·llamt·. Indiana ·16~~6 
Thr Ob~rvcr j:) ;~ mc:mhc:r ofThe Ase lloclatt:d Press. All rt·produuion ril(ht• arc: rt·sc.-rvt'd 
".. ."' -. . . .. "' ... 
Today's issue was produl·-:d by: 
Design Editor................. Guillermo Suarez Design Assistant ................. lev Chapelsky Typesetters ......... )t:nnifer Bigou, Mkhelle Fanto News Editor ............................A'tty Stephan Copy Editor.................................... U: Miller 
Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Sldlman.....................................Steve Foster Viewpolntlayout ........... Dave Grote, Joe Murphy Features layout........................ Mary Healy 
ND Day Editor........................ Bach Stevens SMC Day Edllor........................jody Radler Photographer. .......................... Carol Gales 
Wednesday, April2, 1984-page 2 



National media could tarnish Dome if it reveals skeletons 
There is no better view of the University of Notre Dame than the one afforded Mary, Our Mother. Perched atop one of the seven wonders of the college world, Mary must be starting to feel uncomfortable about what· is happening to her school's reputation. 
Down below her, Notre Dame students are rushing into the Administration Building, holding up bottles of beer, chanting anti-administration and beer slogans, hanging banners all around campus, and participating in huge protest rallies that decry the University's unfair, ness and backward policies. 
Strange. Student protests and rallies are not part of the Notre Dame that is known around the country. After all, isn't Father Hesburgh's Notre Dame a model for all other universities to imitate? Notre Dame, people are told, is different. It brings in quality students, educates them in a Catholic atmosphere, and, after four years, releases them into the world to lend a strong, moral character to society. 
It seems the ideal educa­with solid evidence that tion. But then, why are the Notre Dame has some students acting like people skeletons in its closet. crying for their beer? One It might not be long might expect that from stu­before these enemies find dents of some state school, their person. There have not the model private uni­been more and mor~ rum­versity. Could it be that blings coming from the Uni­Notre Dame isn't all it's versity employees in the cracked up to be? past year. Dining hall 
Granted that it was the workers and a Radiation Lab students, not the administra­employee have already tion, who looked bad in come forth with their most of the press coverage, stories, but their accusations but, as Chris Tayback said have not been especially during last Friday's protest, newsworthy -at least to "We, the students, are Notre the national media. Dame." When the students However, the rumblings look bad, so does the Univer­that are starting to get 
sity. 
Although protests ofanal­cohol policy will not erase completely the "Notre Dame mystique," the protests and the extensive coverage ofthem is just a sign that the mystique quickly is finding itselfon shaky ground. 
There have been little hints over the past year that the Golden Dome was beginning to become a little tar­nished. The accusations about University investments in South Africa and in companies producing nuclear weapons were the beginning. Recently, there have been a number ofsuits brought against Notre Dame by fired workers. It is obvious that people are beginning to question exactly how moral Notre Dame really is. 
Now many of the students seemed to have stopped worrying about their school's reputation. Inviting the national media to write unflattering things about their school and future alma mater is another sign that the University's leadership and purpose is being ques­tioned.ln fact, it is the stongest sign yet. 
Fortunately for the Notre Dame leaders, the ques-

Tired 
of 
horsing around every night? 
The Observer Production Department is rounding up the best possible workers for our layout staff next semester. No experience is necessary, but enthusiasm and a sense of humor will take you far. Learn valuable layout skills and have fun too. Hard to believe? Stop by the LaFortune office this week for an application and more info. 
The 
1984DOME isH ere!!! 

Undergraduates can pick up their book on the Stepan Courts Mon. April .30-Thurs. May 3, from 12:005:00 p.m. Must present I D to get your yearbook! ! ! 



r----------------,
1 Attention All T~ose Interested 1 I In I I CAMPUS-WIDE I
I I
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION I I I I I III Mandatory Meeting I I Wednesday, May 2 at 7:00pm I I In LaFortune Little Theatre II I Questions? Joanne Madden 7978 I 
• • ' .... ,f ~ ............................. . 



-·---------------· 
~po~~;d~~llivan ~ 
~-----------------------\ 
tions have not gotten more serious than the ones already asked, and the damage to the Golden Dome has not been too great -yet. 
However, the lhiversity is walking on thin ice right now. When you claim to be so righteous, like Father Hesburgh and his assistants have done over the years, you pick up many enemies who would love to drag you down. Notre Dame has picked up many enemies who doubt that the school is as near-perfect as they are told and who are just waiting for someone to come forth 
louder than the rest are 
coming from the athletic department -that part of the University that was !'raised so loudly inSports Illustrated. There have been hints from inside the department that somebody is beginning to feel an urge ro "tell all." If a person does come forth with a reliable evidence of wrongdoings, Notre Dame could find itself facing an attack far worse than any it has faced to date. 
Whether or not that person or persons comes forth from the ACC or the Ad Building, the University would be well-advised to make sure that it has nothing to hide. It has been able to weather the small attacks of its stu­dents and a few of its employees, but if the media gets some solid evidence of wrongdoings, Mary's Dome might not be too golden anymore. 
The views expressed in the Inside co(umn are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff 


8:od. PM .$ I~ itt 4~ =;~~JOUN-MIGUaEL 1f~lAK ;~~StfPJtN ~mWliU  No bones about it ... ...we need ad designers The Observer is currently  
EitZRl·/~ARt D~~~  accepting applications for fall advertising designers. No experience required· just creativity and enthusiasm. coli Suzanne ot 239-7471 or stop up ot The Observer's 3rd floor Lafortune o#ice for anapplication  
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD NEEDS VOLUNTEERS: FOR CREDIT CARD SALES IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, AND FRIDAY; 11AM · 4PM ·SPLIT SHIFTS AVAILABLE COMMISSION: 50 CENTS PER APPLICATION FILLED OUT Sign up at the Student Activities Board offices on the 2nd floor of LaFortune or call 1297 and ask 1/ for Lynne.  U+IAUL: Everything for moving &towing Call Pete's Southside Marathon (no deposit necessary) LOW RATES I ONE-WAY & LOCAL RENTALS 1....,.........) u.s.,CANADA & ALASKA • Z' 1293 South 11th Niles, MI ••.•••.• (616) 684-3340  

\ 
. ~·, 
~ 

O'·LAUG+-tL/N 
The Observer Wednesday, April 2, 1984 -page 3 
Two ND students win scholarships 
and college activities and a strong emphasis on academics. Ruehlmann noted, however, "I thought that I on­ly had a decent chance to make it to the fmals because the other students were very impressive." 
Presently . a Government and ALPA major, McCaffery was active in President Reagan's California cam­paign in the 1980 election. He also took part in the Mock Convention last month and has had positions in student government and the Fresh­man and Sophomore Advisory coun­cils. McCaffery plans to use his scholarship at a public policy graduate school where he hopes to study tax policy and to do intern work for the government. 
As general manager of the Senior Bar and former Junior class presi­dent, Ruehlmann has gained the ex­perience needed to succeed in the business world. Ruehlmann plans to study at Vanderbilt Law School after receiving his B.A. in accountancy at this year's graduation ceremony. Upon graduating from Vanderbilt, Ruehlmann aspires to be a business lawyer. 
Vanderbilt Law School is widely recognized as one of the top law schools in the nation. The scholar­ship is awarded on a merit basis. Ap­plicants must be accepted as students in the Vanderbilt Law School. The scholars so selected must be, in all respects, superior stu­dents, and show outstanding leader­ship potential. 
Applicants for the Truman Scholarship must also show out­standing potential for leadership in the area of public service. Can­didates for this scholarship make their initial application to the in­stitution they presently attend and are selected by the institution to represent their school before the final review board. 
McCaffery advised those who seek scholarships in public service related fields to "get some positive experience in government and demonstrate strong leadership qualities." 

ByJOHN GORLA 
StaffReporter 

Two Notre Dame students recent­
ly have received prestigious scholar­
ships in the fields of public service 
and law. 

Thomas McCaffery, a sophomore 
from Modesto, Calif., is the recipient 
of the Harry S. Truman Memorial 
Scholarship. Mark Ruehlmann, a 
senior from Cincinnati, Ohio, was 
awarded the Patrick Wilson 
Memorial Scholarship, by Vanderbilt 
Law School in Nashville, Tenn. 
McCaffery was pleasantly .surprised when notified of his award. He said,"l thought that I just did all right." 
The Truman scholarship, es­tablished by an act of Congress in 1976 to honor our 33rd President, is regarded by educators to be one of the highest awards that a college stu­dent can receive. Father Robert Austgen, Assistant Dean in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, said the scholarship "is a continuing educa­tional scholarship program designed to provide opportunities for out­standing students to prepare for careers in public service." 
Ruehlmann attributes his success to his involvement in high school 

S'"J'"J'"J'"J'"./'J'"J'"J'"J'"J"J'"./'J"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"JCr./'./'J'"J'"J"J"J'"./'J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"J'"1 
~ Do You Wont To Porti~[pote In ~JOHII MARS·HALL ~ What Movies Come To Campus? §UWSCHOOL 
~ ~ 
1313 P8ectst••-at., N.E. Aa.ntaOA3038t 
~ Join The Student Activities ~ 
APPLICATIONS NOWTAkEN 
:ebru•ry, June, hpt•mberadmlulons 

1 Board Movie Commission I 
Day or Evening Clas ... 

§ 8 POSITIONS AVAILABLE §
John M•tlll•ll UtrScho:••IUICNR 
NQMt to natloMI 01.....,,., 
§ §
APPROVED FOR VETERANS 
§ §
§ §

Graduation from John M.,..._ll meets the-.-.Qullrem~enl~ 
admlutof'l to the a.,Examtllatlon In ~anct llidllana,. ~ ~
i ~
Sign up on the 2nd Floor
(404)11.1·3583 

~ of LaFortune before 4pm Thursday §
&.-..r..r..r~~..r~..r..r..r..r....-..r..r..r..r..r~..r..r.JCr..r~~~....oocy..r~~ 







TRUCK LEASING, INC. 710 N. Niles Ave. 



THIS OLD HOUSE 
South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-5871 

PIZZERIA &PUB 
c "BRUNO~" 
THIS WEDNESDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver 

0 .HEBTZ 
N P_ENSKE 
a 16" pizza 
with I topping 
G R ONE WI! 
for only $6.95 Each additional topping 
$1.00 extra
JBlJ.CKS

A 
Order 1--$I offtotal price 
T 
Order 3--$1 offtotal price 
4 or more--$3 offtotal price Must book 7-10 days in advance · L $IOO DEPOSIT REQUIRED 
u Special Discounts for N.D. and SMC Students 
,... '....,'"I 

Mon -.Il:a_urs Fri-Sat 277-4519
A 
4 .. 10PM Unti112 am Open Sunday
TIONS CLASS OF '84 
4-10 pm 
. 277-4519 
&,." ••• \.~\..f..\.1,',·-·-~ .. ,_.,._._.. ·~· ... ·.·~··-· ...· .,; ... ~&,., ....;.,~ •. ,_., ,,._ ., • ' ••• 9 •• '. 9. •. •.••• 
..... .... , ................. '"~. ... , ... ~ ...... ........ ­
~ ·~ 
~--------~----~------~--------~----------~·~-~------~--~~~~------~­
HPC 
continuedfrom page one. 

centage of the forms returned, it won't work," Prados said. Less than 900 students have returned their forms, according to David. 
Two representatives from The Obseroer also spoke at the HPC meeting. "If the relationship be­tween The Obsen,er and student government has been strained, it's due to a lack of communication," Editor-in-Chief Bob Vonderheide said. 
"We'd like to chang~ that. We're here to show you ways of getting a· story or idea into the paper," Manag­ing Editor Mark Worscheh said. 

Vonderheide cited the Viewpoint page as an area that has been over­looked by hall presidents in the past. "Anytime you feel there is an issue that needs to be discussed, we'd like to hear from you. We're here to serve you," Vonderheide said. 
HPC Chairman Chris Tayback dis­cussed the Shakespeare Reading marathon. "It raised about 55000 for the Milani Fund," said Tayback. "Also, the people from the Guinness Book are acknowledging the effort. We now have the world record for continuous reading ofShakespeare," he said. 
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 
You wrap or we wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka at Logan Mon.· Fri. 8:30 · 5:00 We Ship Exclusively UPS 

-----~~~-~-~~-------~ 





View~_o_i_n_t
_______w_edn_e_sda.._y,Ap__ 2_, page 4
ril_. 19_B4.::........... 

ND ROTC protects the weak and unarmed 
The following is the second part ofa two­part series on the role of the Resen1e Officer Training Corps program at Notre Dame. 
There has been talk lately about Notre Dame becoming a leading "Peace University." I'm not <.·xactly sure what that is, but the very kast th<.· University would have to do in order to be taken seriously as a peacemaking institu­tion is to reform the ROTC programs in ac­cordan<.-e with Catholic just war ethics -a 
Michael Baxter 

Guest column 
complicated task. I have suggested that in the 
first place, it would entail training officers to 
take up as their special care and concern the 
defense of the innocent. 

In this same spirit, Gen. Douglas MacArthur once wrote that "the soldier, be he friend or foe, is charged with the protection ofthe weak and unarmed. It is the very essence of his heing." 
Similiarly, the American Catholic bishops urge military personnel to examine policies and practices in which they are involved in light of the principle of non-combatant im­munity. Defense of the innocent is central to the responsihilit.y ofany officer, hut it is espe­cially central to Catholic officers, since they are gui<kd not only by a military code of et­hics hut hy the moral vision of another separate community, the Church. 
There is a crucial difference between a cod<.• of military ethics derived from the military itself and a proper Catholic under­standing of the responsibilities of soldiering. Th<.· Catholic soldier's moral duty to defend the innocent can never h<: checked by his obligation to obey orders, asGaudium et spes states so emphatically. Such a readiness to dis­obey orders could not he cultivated in the military. Every military requires a chain of command that barely tolerates even question­ing orders, not to mention disobeying them. 
This makes problems for Catholics in the military, who arc <.·ailed to question their ac­tions habitually, and to disobey immoral or­dns without compromiSl·. Conformity is an l'Ss<.·ntial ingredient to a healthy military en­vironment. 
Yet. it is incumh<.·nt upon Catholic officers to live by values that may run at cross­purposes to that environment. Is it reasonable to exp<.Tt that our Catholic officers maintain this kind of moral autonomy? I think it is. The exampk of Franz_lagerstattcr illustrates why. 
Jagerstattt·r was a Catholic Austrian peasant who trained in the Nazi army during World War II. When it came time l(>r him to enter al'tiVl' servin:, he rdused on the grounds that ht· would h<.· fighting in an unjust war. The m<.·n in his village consid<.·red him a coward. 
Jag<.·rstatter continued in his refusal and was hdll'aded hy the Nazis on August 9, 194.3. The disturbing part of th<.· story is that Jagerstat­tn's parish priest would not hear ofhis refusal and a<.'Cused him of being too self-righteous. Nor wouldJagerstattn's bishop lend him sup­port and said it wasn't propn for a person to question the state. So Jagerstatter was put in a position in which he almost had to apologize fi>r his rdusal. 
This is tht· heart of the matter about Cat· holies in tht· military and about the moral kgitmacy of KOTC at Notre [},une. It is an issut· ofallegiance to (iod and the Church, and how that might «.:onflict with an officer's al­kgianc<.· to tht· state. In this American context, th.:r highn allq~iann: would not in all likelihood lead Catholics to martyrdom like Jagerstatter's. But the allegiance is essential to our religious identities. 
"Catholic" means universal, and any moral vision claiming to he such cannot be narrowed by loyalty to the state or to any other institution of purely human design ­not when that entails the grave matter of taking innocent lives. 
This isn't merely a theoretical question about church-state relations. There is often a sharp contrast between what the military demands of its officers in the heat of combat and what the Church demands of them in spite of the heat ofcombat. And that contrast can harden into deep, personal conflict for 
U.S. military officers as easily as it can for of­ficers ofother states. 
So the issue here is pastoral. It has to do with how Notre Dame officers spend their years in the military, to what ends they devote their talents, how they contribute morally to the military and how they can become the kind of people whose moral characters won't be corroded by "military necessity" or the needs of"national security." 
The key to the moral legitimacy ofll.)TC on Notre Dame's campus lies with the ability of the programs to form people whose moral sensibilities won't be dulled by nationalism, pragmatism or any other ethical shares as­sociated with a military environment. 
This task would have to involve curriculum reforms. The principles of just war ethics would have to be incorporated into the syl­labus of each class. Strategies and tactics that conflict with these principles would have to be discussed openly. 
A military science course on weapons, for example, would certainly include a thorough section on the principle ofnon-combatant im­munity and how it applies to specific weapons. Moreover, it would be imperative that the ROTC commanders be firmly com­mitted to this Catholic perspective on military officership. They would have to be convinced of the duty of waging war justly and of the need to convey that commitment to their ll:>TC students. 
There is no clearer, more challenging op­portunity for the University to exhibit its dis­tinctively Catholic character than to reform the ROTC programs in order that they deal practically and pastorally (not just theoreti­cally) with traditional just war teaching. 
I realize that this outlook might seem to be a rather negative explanation of the role of ROTC at Notre Dame. But there has always been a presumption in the Christian tradition against resorting to violence, a presumption that all Christians, not just the so-called "pacifisits," are obliged to share. 
· The burden of proof has always rested with those who favor the use of force. Hence, the ROTC programs pose a special challenge to the Notre Dame community, in that they are designed for purposes that must continually be scrutinized by the Christian community. 
Some might argue that the IUTC programs would he unable, or inevitably unwilling, to accommodate the demands deriving from C.atholic moral teaching on waging just war. If that's the case, then the problem is not with the ethics of the Christian community, but with the capacity of the U.S. military to be a morally accountable institution. If the programs are unable or unwilling to ac­complish the task set before it by the Christian community, then ROTC's presence on campus is indeed morally questionable. 
Michael Ba.xter, a professed seminarian in the Congregation of Ho~y Cross, teaches religion at Casa Santa Cruz High School in Phoenix, Arizona. 


Teaching about CatholicisM or teaching about God 
The Notre Dame Theology Department has other understand the one God? No religion is recently changed its University requirements better than any other; none can give a com­for graduation, and I feel this reflects an unfor­plete vision of God -only a synthesis of the tunate change in philosophy. The new truth in each can result in the best human guidelines require each student to take a full view ofour Creator. year of an introduction to Catholicism; this Because of this, Notre Dame's Theology replaces the old philosophy of one semester Department is doing its students no favor. in an introductory course in Catholic teach-Since student time is limited, a more complete 
knowledge of Catholicism must be at the ex­pense of understanding other belief systems. James Rickert The theology department has, therefore, helped to render a more adequate view of God unattainable to its students. CatholicGuest column doctrine is very important -it makes sense and it gives one true understanding; it should be studied. I was raised in an atmosphere of 
ings and one in a class ofthe student's choice. Catholicism, and I accept its major tenets. 
The new policy is so discouraging to me be­However, my faith in minor matters, such as cause, inherent in it is the belief that the role and status of Mary, the saints, or the Catholicism is somehow better than other Pope has been tr-dnsformed, and I thank our religions and, therefore, Catholic doctrine theology department for any help that they should be taught to the exclusion of other have given me in this transformation. religious doctrines. This is the attitude that Along with this growth in understanding led to the burning of"heretics" by the Spanish has come a new faith in non-Catholic teach­Inquisition. ings. Strict adherence to Catholic doctrine 
I understand that this is a Catholic institu­necessarily precludes an openness to God's tion and therefore, can accept the single work in non-Catholic religions. Other semester Catholic introduction requirement, theologies can also give the believer a but this new policy will discourage students reasonable, consistent understanding of the from learning about other religious ideas. Lord. If one finds God in strict Catholicism, Most students have only the time or desire to that is excellent, but our theology department take the two-semester theology requirement. should not try to force this upon those of us These requirements should be used to give who have tried but cannot be satisfied with it. students as great an understanding of God as The theology department was faced with the possible, it should not be used simply to problem of teaching about Catholicism or promote as great an understanding of Cat­about God Unfortunately, they forgot that holicism as possible. Catholicism and all other Catholicism is only one means of understand­religions are made to help lead the individual ing the infinite, and they chose to limit their to God; God and His Kingdom are greater and students' view of God. Let us hope that they wider than the Roman Catholic Church. have the wisdom to correct their mistake. Therefore, it is myopic to denigrate other I have a vision that one day people religions simply because their tenets conflict representing all possible religious viewpoints with Catholic views. will gather as equals to talk. They will not 
It is both irrational and egotistical to argue and try to show each other why they are believe that the Catholic religion is adequate right and others are mired in ignorance. to explain God. How can any finite human Rather, they will look for similarities and a viewpoint explain the infinite? It cannot. Only synthesis of the truth from each view. This by studying and understanding all religious will lead to the best possible understanding of systems can a more complete vision ofGod be God. Why can't it occur at Notre Dame? attained. We all need help from each other in everything in this world; religion is no dif­james Rickert is a seniorfrom Howard Hall ferent. Why can't everyone-Catholics,Jews ar.d is enrolled in the College ofArtsand Let· and Buddhists -work together to help each ters. 
The Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager . ......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor . . . . . . . . Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor........ Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
Un1versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the poliCieS of the adminiStration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ........ ·,.; ,. .. Dai)J~IIough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately anr1 as objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne MonaSTYrski  
of a maJOrity of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor............ Michael Sullivan  
present the vrews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the :ommun1ty. and the free express1on of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
....  IS r•nCOUroged .  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  




Showcase 
Movies 
Expect only horror front a horror ntovie 
by Paul Cimino 
features staffwriter 
I 
never used to go to horror movies and ifit were not for my girlfriend, I would never have known how much fun I was missing. So, when she suggested we see "Friday the 13th: The Final Chapter" I im­mediately agreed. Now, I don't have a very solid background concerning the "Friday the 13th" series (I have not seen any ofthe three previous theatrical extravaganzas) so I felt this would be the perfect movie for me to both enjoy and critique at the same time. I was absolutely correct. 
Everyone loves a good horror 
movie now and then. And ifyou go 
to see just one scary film this year, 
"Friday the 13th: The Final Chapter" 
is the movie you should choose. 
For those ofyou who are un­familiar with the "Friday the 13th" series, here is a quick overall synopsis: a possessed and deformed killer namedJason terrorizes children and adults alike at a hideaway named Camp Crystal Lake. Many people attempt, and fail, to kill him. However, at the end ofpart III, 
Jason is finally beaten and presumed dead. 
This so-called "Final Chapter" 
begins exactly where the third part 
left off. The first five minutes ofthe 
movie are filled with flashbacks and 
cuts from the earlierfilms which not 
only build your interest but serve as a lead-in to the film's storyline. As stated earlier,Jason is thought to be dead and is taken to a morgue to be autopsied. Suffice it to say that he is not dead at all -any more about the plot would ruin the suspense. 
Ofthe acting, alllhat needs be said is that it is not fantastic. But really, what horror movies do you know that deserve Academy Awards for acting quality? This movie fits per­fectly into the usual style ofhorror movies in that its plot involves a lot offun-loving teenagers, no-name ac­tors and actresses, and an expansive amount ofmood-setting music. 
Bruce Mahler (formerly ofABC's "Fridays") has top billing but don't be fooled. His part, although funny, is in no way essential to the story and, as such, is very small. Peter Bar­ton ("Powers ofMatthew Star," an­other long-run network series), a second notable, can be seen from time to time. However, he too has a small part. No other members ofthe cast are worth remembering. There is one other character ofsome im­portance -a dog who tries to protect his masters. 
The movie is rated R and for good reason. Afew years ago it probably would have been rated X. There is an overabundance ofunclean language, nudity, and, ofcourse, blood. Don't be discouraged by this rating, 




WEDNESDAY SPECIAL 3 · 8 Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 8 · 3 Bud Long necks 75¢ 
though. In fact, an R rating was to be expected because the movie has an effect which could not be ac­complished in any less vicious a fas­hion. 
Jason is a very inventive and ingenious person. Because ofthis "The Final Chapter" goes to new lengths in the quest for ways for people to die. I personally don't plan to die in any ofthe situations portrayed. The deaths and the film suffer at times from lack ofrealism but when the choice is between realism and effect, most horror movie-goers will accept the latter. Irony also plays an important part in the film. This movie is a must for any horror lovers or fans ofthe "Friday the 13th" series, well worth the price ofadmission. The last 30 minutes in particular contain the most exciting and suspenseful scenes I have seen in a long, long time. You may want to bringa friend or two along (preferably ofthe op­posite gender) because the movie is better enjoyed by groups. Oh, and make sure to go to the late showon a Friday orSaturday night because the film is greatly enhanced by the audience's screams!! 
One final word on "Friday the 13th The Final Chapter." As the title suggests, it is the final installation in the story. But don't see this as a let­down. The ending contains a twist which will undoubtedly leave you asking that famous question: "Is the party really over?" 
Wednesday,April2, 1984-page 5 



Letters front an Italian grandntother 
by Paul Aiello 
features columnist 
T
his pastweek I received anotherletterfrom my Italian grandmot­her. As always, the top left-hand corner ofthe envelope con­tained the familiar return address: "Nana, 1717 East 2nd Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.," while the letter was affectionately addressed to her "Paul Francis." On the backside ofthe envelope, layers upon layers ofscotch tape were strategically placed, giving the appearance that extremesecuritymeasureswere taken. Knowing Nana, I understand why she does this. For she knows mailmen are always trying to st~~' the "little thoughts" she sends to her grandchildren. 
After a ten minute struggle to open the envelope, I fmally came upon its contents. As always, the note started offwith the same opening: "Dear Paul Francis, .. .Just a few lines to say hello and hope you are doing fine." Every time I read this I have to laugh be­cause Nana, like othergrandmothers, writes the way she talks. Easily, I can hear her talking to me in the same manner she does back at home. "Paul Francis, why don't you get yourselfa Iitle more to eat!"' 
Nevertheless, the best part ofNana's note came from its sup­portive nature -the kind that only a grandmother can provide. For example, on hearing that I had three tests and two papers in one week, Nana simply wrote: "Luckily, I know that you are a great guy and can take it." Following this, she then reeled offone ofher favorite mottos, "Above all, have a good time!" 
After I made it through Nana's closing which wished me to "be happy and healthy" in about twenty different combinations of words, I fmally reached another ofmy favorite parts ofher letters. Somehow, I would have to try to salvage the check or bill that she would always tape to the rest ofthe letter. With years ofexperience and great dexterity (this point has often been challenged), I began surgery to separate the money. Minutes later, mission was ac­complished. Nothing was lost and the "loot" was mine. Neverthe­less, the value ofit now seems quite trivial compared to thepriceless value ofthe letter itself. · 


Debaters beconting chantps at getting the point across 
by Frank Lipo 
features staffwriter 
T
he Notre Dame Speech and Debate Council recently com­pleted its season. Although it isn't as large as other clubs and organiza­tions that receive much publicity, it provides an excellent forum for in­terested students to display their oral skills. 
BrotherJohn Doran, director of forensics, has coached the speech and debate council for the past six years. He said, "The interest is there ifyou can tap it. Usually about 20 students stay with it to a certain de­gree ofinvolvement." He said one main problem right now is that Notre Dame doesn't have a speech department. Many ofthe com­petitive schools use their speech classes as training for competition. Some communication and theatre classes can fill this void, but there are still some training problems. 
Despite these limitations, said Doran, juniorsJohn Monberg and Paul Komyatte bad a fine season. They finished fifth in the region in debate. Alan Targprt, also a junior, became tbe first student from Notre Dame to participate in the nationals for indt.idual events. He went on to place 13th in die nation. 
'l1llc ca.ndl...two~­dcb8tc, and~ nents. The dcb8tcIJrllldIaatraditional debate team, wWic lndftklual. events are or­ganbed into ten different sub-events including prose, poetry, rhetorical analysis, dramatic interpretationand impromptu speaking. The season begins the first week in October and culminates in the nationals in April, in which Notre Dame competes against other schools in the Mid­west. 
For a debate team to reach the na­tionals, it must placefourth or better in the region. To reach the nationals in one ofthe individual events, a per­son must either finish in the top three at three different meets throughout the year orbe one ofthe top three in the region. Notre Dame was in a region containing schools 

Start A Line Of Creditl Applications Available For: 
MASTERCARD VISA SEARS HUDSON'S ZALES 
11 -4pm Wednesday, Thursday, Friday in the lobby of LaFortune 
FROM THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
.... '. •. -f Iff 
from Indiana, Illinois, Ohio and Michigan. This year's national cham­pion, Bradley University, was also in the region. 
After T arggart placed second in the region, he travelled to Kansas State University April 13-16, with representatives from 102 other schools. There were 93 other stu­dents in his impromptu speaking category, providing a high level of competition. Targgart said, "For some ofthese kids, this is their life. Many are on speech scholarships. Some schools take speech as serious­ly as their sports. This is their only chance for national prestige." 
The participants were judged on their response to a series of topics. Each competitor was given an index card with a quote on it. They had seven minutes to prepare and give a speech. Targgart responded to such topics as "Great men are not isolated mountain peaks, they are merely the summits ofranges" and "Ifwe are to love our country, our country must be lovely." He was edged out ofthe fmal round by one rating point. 
Targgart said, "I had a really good time. I was worried that I wouldn't be extremely competitive because I didn't have the experience ofsome ofthe others. I didn't embarrasss myself, though. I look forward to doing better next year." 
Doran is leaving Notre Dame at the end ofthis semester. He is "95 percent certain" the new director of forensics will be Bill Wians, who is now teaching in the London program. Wians was an associate debate coach at Notre Dame while he worked on his doctorate in philosophy. He was also a college debater at Toledo University. Doran said W ians is a good debate man who would give support to individual events. He has broad interests in all aspects ofcollege debate. Doran said, "The program will be in good hands." . .-:.·.·.·:.·.·:.'. 

I 
1 
i i 
I • I • I I •• I I I I I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I f I I I. I I,'~ t. 1. •• '· • '· •• ·~ 



Sports Briefs 
There will be a meetingfor all interested in start­ing a table tennis club in the fall. The meeting will be in the LaFortune Little Theater, tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. For more informa­tion, cal Ted Pfarrer at 1988. -The Obseroer 
The Marketing Club Golf Tourney will be held Friday, May 4, on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Signups for tee times will be held in 255 Hayes-Healy until today. Entrants will have a choice to play in the four-man bestball or four-man scramble. Prizes will be awarded in both divisions. A S2. 50 green fee will be charged. For more information, call Don at 1684. -The Obseroer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold an organizational meeting today at 8:30p.m. in room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall. The Chicago trip and awards day will be discussed. All rowers must attend. Officers' meeting at 7 p.m. in Lafortune.-The Obseroer 
The Weightlifting Club will sponsor a ~ench press and squatting meet Saturday, May 5, at 1 p.m. Th~re wtll be men's and women's weight classes and medals will be awarded to first through third places in each class. The meet is open. to everyone, including varsity athletes. Sign up at the Rockne wetght room, or call Pat ( 8762) or Mark ( 1156). Fee is S2. -The Obseroer AWindsurfing Meetingwill take place tomorrow night at 8 p.m. at LaFortune. T-shirts, board storage for next year, lessons and racing will be discussed. All members must attend. The Obseroer 
The SMC softball teamtook two games from Notre. 
Dame last night by scores of 8-4 and 10-0. Julie Keigher was the winning pitcher in the first game with two walks and no strikeouts. In the second game, Annie Day was the winner, with no walks and one strikeout. Jill Strenzel pitched both games for the Irish. In the first game, Mary Lynne Mulchay hit two-for-three for the Belles, with a home run, a single, and four RBI, while Notre Dame's Chris Cal­lahan went three-for-five, with a home run, two singles, and an RBI. The second game was won on the fifth inning ten-run rule, as Day pitched a three-hitter. 11\e Belles head to Indianapolis this Friday to take on Taylor in the first game of the state championship tourna­
ment. -The Obseroer 
The ND-SM C Sailing Club is meeting tonight at 
6:30 p.m. in room 204 O'Shaugnessy Hall. The inter-club regatta this Friday will be discussed. All present members must attend, and new members are invited to attend also. -The Obseroer 
Devil'S Bag, who seemed a sure thing for greatness follow­ing a spectacular two-year-old season, will not run in the Kentucky Derby. Devil's Bag won all five ofhis races easily last year, was voted the two-year-old champion, was in the runningfor Horse ofthe Year, and in December was syndicated for 1136 million. The horse won the one-mile trial in 1:35 3-5, but turned in a slow final quarter of25 2-5 seconds. "He's a tired horse, no question about it," Woody Stephens said yesterday. -AP 
L-------------------------------------------------------------------' 
I . 

Wednesday, April 2, 1984 -page 6 


Tennis 
continuedfrom page 8 

respectively, and the number one doubles team of Pam Fischette and Mary Colligan will remain in Chat­tanooga until Saturday for the in­dividual competition. 
"Pam Fischette is a senior and it would be nice to win it for her," said Panther. "She's a big factor because she is so consistant, and she always 
comes  through for  us with  a  big  
win."  
Yesterday's  match  gave  Saint  

Mary's a 17-9 season recur, and on 
May 28 the Belles will travel to 
Kansas City to compete in the NAIA 
National Tournament. Last year, the 
Belles fminshed tenth in the tourna­ment, and Belles head coach John Killeen expects an improvement over last seasson. 
"Two or three players have made some concrete improvements in their play," he said. "I think we're stronger than we were last year, and hopefully, we're going to do beUj::r." 
The Belles were looking forward to yesterday's match because it gave them an opportunity to prepare for Nationals. 
"Notre Dame has a fine team and it helps us to play against good players," said Killeen. "We would like to wish Notre Dame good luck at Nationals." 
Saint Mlry's will end its regular season on Frida, as the lklles play host to the University of Northeas­
tern Illinois. 

The Observer Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortunr Student Center. accrpts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, locatt;d on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:~0 p.m. until ~p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for ncxt·day classific:ds is ~ p.m. All classificds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge: is I 0 cents per five ~·harac·


Classifieds 
ters t·r da . 
NOTICES 
WE HAVE THE LOWEST AIRFARES TO EUROP£1 FOR FREE COLOR BROCHURE, WRITE TO: CAMPUS TRAVEL, BOX 11317, ST. LOUIS, MO 
113105. 
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. RESUMES. 272-1127. 
EXPERT TYPIST 277·8534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME THESES, TERM PAPERS. ETC CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
GET TOP$$$ FOR YOUR TEXTS Ill Buy Bad< Paperbacks: Monarch and Cliff Notes Man thru Fn. 1·4 p.m PANDORA'SBOOKS937S.BENDAVE. 

LOST/FOUND I 
LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 4B. GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC­TANGLE). MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN· TAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO FATHER IN 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT PLEASE RETURN MEDAL CALL PAUL 272 0746 OR ANN·MARIE 284 5087 
LOST·GREEN USMC/ARMY FIELD JACKET·Dad has threatened my extst· encetf I can't find rt.n lound-PETE 3185. 
LOST: SET OF KEYS ON KEY RING­PROBABLY LOST DURING THURSDAY PICNIC AT SAINT MARY'S. TWO OF THE KEYS ARE MARKED 1124. PLEASE CALL JEFF AT7120SOON. 
KEYS FOUND IN NIEUWL.AND LADIES' ROOM SAT NIGHT CALL ANN 284· 5129 
LOST: Pearl Necklace somewhere be· tween Stepan field and Farley on Sat. Of great sentimental value-reward offered Call3560 
LOST: BLUE NO WALLET WITH ID AND BANK CARD. PLEASE CALL 3706 
LOST: ladies Gold Ttmex Quartz watch with brown band at AnTostal mudptts on Sat, April28. Please call Kathy at 8663. 
FOUND: A BLUE AND GOLD NOTRE DAME BASEBALL CAP IN HAYS HEA· LY. CALL MARK AT 1987. 
CHAIN AND INTRAMURAL MEDAL LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURTS. WILL THE PERSON WHO CALLED BEFORE EASTER BREAK (DAN ?) PLEASE CALL AGAIN! ANN MARIE 2845087 OR PAUL 2720746 ONE ROOM KEY FOUND AT ANTOS· TAL PICNIC. CALL 1727 WITH THE NUMBER 
BAHAMASIBAHAMASIBAHAMASI ANYONE INTERESTED MANDATOY MEETING THURSDAY 7 LAORTUNE 

FOR RENT 
GRADUATESTUDENTS-~BEDROOM 
HOME, FULLY FURNISHED INCLUD­ING UTlLITIES FOR SUMMER MONTHS. $300/MO. HOUSE WILL ALSO BE AVAILABLE FOR NEXT FALL 2116-3109. 
Apartment lor rent. summer months only, close to campus. Please call Kathy at 5115 (SMC) or Laune at 5150 (SMC) for 1nformatKm. 


WANTED 
CHOOSE LFE FOR YOUR BABY! CONSIDER THE OPTlON OF ADOP. TIONIINFERTlLE COUPLE WANTS TO ADOPT INFANT. WRfTE P.O. BOX 531111, FT. WAYNE, IN 46105. 
PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239­5313 OR 277·4851. 
GRAOUATION TICKETS NEEDED. CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 or277·4851. 
........................... 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559 $50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call 1-805-687-6000, Ext. R·9834. 
DRY CAMPUS! avoid the new policy • MOVE O.C. need 2 lemale ROOMMATES--campus view·-next year please call Kris or Jayne 284-437U4387 
ride needed to seattle or portland after may 16 call JOhn 234 8493 
NEEDED: One more ,_,1111118 (fwmale) lor • ~ per80f1 ....,nnen~ 111 c .... pu• v.w. 
c.n u.rtpllllll7ffT7 or 2»7471. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD TIX. CALL KAREN AT 1365. 
Need 1 rider to Md.IDC.SAT.(5/12). Andy. 1020 
NEED RIDE TO CHARLOTTE, N.C. AF­TER FINALS. PLEASE CALL CHAPIN ATlMIII 
Need ride to Indiana U. 5/4-5/6. Call Usa 81284-5176. 

Ride needed to New Orleans. Can leave anytime after May 12. Very little baggage space needed. Call Cheryl284-4367. 
NEED RIDERS TO CINCY. MIAMI U AREA THIS WEEKEND· CALL PAUL 
1043 

WANT TO MOVE O.C? I NEED 3 ROOMMATES FOR A HOUSE NEXT YEAR. 11/2 MILES FROM CAMPUS,COMPLETEL Y FURNISHED WITH WASHER, DRYER--EVEN A PING· PONG TABLE AND ALL KITCHEN UTENSILS. 4 BEDROOM. 11/2 BATH AND OR ONLY $68.75/MONTH FOR 8 MONTHS, SINCE LANDLORD OF· FERED A MONTH'S FREE RENT. CALL BILL AT 234· 7080 

FOR SALE 
BARGAIN: ENGAGEMENT AND WED­DING RING FOR SALE Contact Garry Rush, 239-7735 
Free Spirrt 1Q-speed (excel.cond.) $75 ·call Barry 8620. 
FOR SALE: Stereo. Price negotiable. Call Vince at 283-3129 
FOR SALE: 2 COUCHES. BAR STOOL. RUG. BAR(REAL CHEAP!) EVERY· THING MUST GOI SOLD TO THE HIG· HEST BIDDER. OR FIRST COME FIRST SERVED! CALL JEFF AT 8854 NOW! 
...................... LOVESEAT AND ARMCHAIR FOR SALE:GOOD CONDITION:CALL EMILE Xl770 
WATEABED a "king SIZe" necessrty lor O.C. $100 or best 234-9205 
FOR SALE: TWO BED LOFT WITH "BAR·LIKE STRUCTURE" CALL2737 

TICKETS 
$$$Need 2 commence. tix. Call Dan 287­6273. 
NEED GRAD TICS.$$$$. CALL 1610. 
NEED MANY GRAD TtXI $$$ CALL KURT AT 234-2252 
WILL TRADE HOTEL RES. FOR 1 GRAD. TIX. CALL 232·3582 
NEED GRAD TIX$$$ ·1965 
Need gred ticket Btg $$ Talk to me belore you sell to anyone else Mike 7838 
Desperately NEED TWO GRADUATION TIX lor family who's been waiting 4 yrs. to see me graduate. Call NANCY at 1349. 
Bruce Springeteen will not be at com­mencement. but I still need ttckllts. anyway. Call Dave Dziedzic at 283-3671 or 239-5303 if you want $$$lor your tick· ets. 
NEED MANY GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP$$$ PLEASE CALL 234­0319. 
WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR UP TO FOUR GRAD TIX. CALL RICH AT 288-7446 
$$ NEED 4 GRAD TIX $$ LARRY 1638 OA1601 
GOTTA HAVE GRAD. TIX. Need not be together. Call Tom/John 6146or 1761. 
NEED ONLY 1 GRADUATION TICKET! WILL PAY $$$ ... 4305 
WILL TRADE DOZENS OF YOUR FAVORITE COOKIE FOR ONLY 1 MEASELY GAAOUATION TICKET. CALL TRESE AT 1727 IF YOU'RE HUNGRY. 

PERSONALS 
SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHAOES SHOATS AND SHADES Shorte •nd S~e is coming!!!! May 5, Howard Hall Shorts and Shades Party. Be there!! SHOATS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHOATS AND SHADES SHOATS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHOATS AND SHADES 
JUNIORS, JUNIORS: RETURN COM­PLETED PROFILE FORM TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES, RM. 213, AD. BLDG. BY FRI., MAY 4 BY 5:00 P.M. 
SUMMER is almost here and soon you will be going home. Some of us are not so lortunate. Some of us will be spending our summer in sunny South Bend. And as n that weren't reason enough to take pity on me. I don't have a car with which to escape the confines of this fair city, to take me to work, or even Ia go to the grocery store. Perhaps you have a car that you do not want to bring home because rt is too far, too much trouble, etc. Or perhaps you would like to leave your car here because this sad tale has moved you to tears. n 
you do have a car that you want taken care ol for the summer by a very reliable person. call Sarah at 1311. Please. 
OCEAN CITY live and play under t~ J"fr sey sun. Call Tom at 1201 
ATTENTION ACCOUNTING SOPHo­MORES PAID POSITION open for ASSISTANT STUDENT LOAN AD­MINISTRATOR For the Morrissey Loan Fund Call Andy at1221 or Erin at 1992 for furtber information BEFORE FAIS/4 
SYD IS COMING!I!II SYD IS COMING!!!!! SPONSORED BY MOCK CONVENTION ASSOCIATES, INC. 1ST ANNUAL SCREW YOUR DELEGATE PARTY FRIDAY. MAY 4 9PM·2AM THE LAST BIG BLOWOUT BEFORE FINALS SEMI· FORMAL D.J. $5-COUPLE OR $3-PERSON PASOUERILLA EAST PARTY ROOM CALL TOM 277·4283 OR BRIDGET 284· 5172 DONT MISS OUT ON AN INTOXICATING EVENINGIII SYD IS COMING!II!I SYD IS COMING IIIII 
Need male room mate at Castle Pt. next year. Call Matt·1213 
Theo Majors and all other Interested stu~ dents: you are urged to attend a meet1ng with Richard McBrien, Chairman of the Theology Department, on Thursday. May 3 at 4:15 P.M. in room 341 O'Shaughnessy. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the program lor majors in Theology and undergraduate theology in general. 
LOST: Pearl Necklace somewhere be­tween Stepan field and Farley on Sat. Of great sentimental value-reward offered. Call3560 
TO THE GUYS FROM FLANNER WHO HAVE THE BED FRAMES OF THE 
GIRLS FROM 3RD FLOOR FARLEY· PLEASE RETURN THEM BY FRIDAY OR YOU WILL BE FINED! CALL 3560 
MACRI'SDEU The deli's meat was not beat. 
Champs for the second year in a row. 
Your lips are moving. I cannot hear. Your voice is soothing. But the words aren't clear. You don't sound different. I've learned the game. I'm looking through you. You're not the same. 
To my 4 roomies: Joe the 'wop" C .. Gig· gy, Goules, & Sparl<y 
.. well. 3 roomies anyway: you are such great guys. I sure am gonna miss ya. Thanx for the good times: Lee's. Shi~ey·s. Bridgets. etc .... and JOE· Sorry to inlorm you. but you don't stand a prayer in our next round of Gin Rummeyl Love. NBB 
I.ffll!(ing bar~ in your afternoons? Never gel a chance to talk to people? Well. The Observer might be just what you need. Earn some money and meet some strange and interesting people by becoming a Day Editor. II you're in· terested, call Tom Mowle at 239-5303 in the afternoon. 
MARGGIE--BEWARE OF BREAKFAST ABUSE WEEKI THAT'S THE BREAKS, THAT'S THE BREAKS! JS. 
Bruce Sprtngeteen will not be at com· mencement. but I need more tickets anyway. Call Dave DztedZtc at 283-3671 or 239-5303 nyou want $$$lor your ttck· 
ets. 

BOOKSTORE SCOREKEEPERS Thank you lor your loyally and en· thusiasm in all kinds of weather!! We couldn't have a tournament without you. See you at Bookstore XIV. 
The Toumsment Commissioners 
John Perez was a man-god -now JUSt a sub-deity 
OH. VOLUPTOUSL Y WANTON ONE. DON'T WORK TOO HARD! REMEM· BER. I WANT YOU ALIVE SEE YA SOON? LOVE, DAVEY·POO 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY LAURA KUBER/Iove, your forever friend. 
CLASS OF '86 HAPPY HOUR Thurs..May 3,9:30 PM at Cartos Sweeney's $1 Margaritas. 2 for 1 Mixed Drinks Free chips. Free dip. $.75 Drafts JUNIORS/ Bnng 21 !D's to CARLOS SWEENEY'S THURS. NIGHT' 
FOR SALE: ONE·MAN LOFT. COUCH 
.CHEAP! CALL 8086 

SANDWICHES DELIVERED FAST! CALL THE YELLOW SUB AT 272·4453 BETWEEN 8&11 pm MON· THUA 8& 1 pm FRI·SAT! 
BAHAMAS!BAHAMASI6AHAMAS! ANYONE INTERESTED MANDATORY MEETING THURSDAY 7 LAFORTUNE 
looking for a little excitement next year? Join The Observer Production Depart­ment! Learn valuable layout skills and have fun too. Interested In becoming part olthls One publication? Stop by the 
Lafortune office. 

Christina Wetnmann Chnstina Wetnmann 
Christina Weinmann Where are you? Ex. 
lora week/ 
ENRIGHT: You hack you. 

ATTENTION OBSERVERITESI 
llle aaaual Obaaver trip to a 
W'blte So• a••• •• co•lag •pi 
llload•11•t 5 pm lethe tl••· We11 retarn after mldnlgbt. Bat you havtl to elp up ....Stop by the office for detaUe tod•11l 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
T0 day____________....._w_edn_e_sct_ay_,Ap_ru_·_2,_19_84_--page-7 
Bloom Connty 

11 MICHAEL JI{,I<50N &t.OV£ .' FO!?. MY rNIN 
UT77..£ MICH~l..
Hf1<6. 

JACKSON.' WW...11fi!T1S
I 




GEEZ! I'VE GOT I'vE 60T THREE ErA/tiS TWO EXAMS AN!J TWO AND A THIRTY 
PAPERS /Jtll PA6E PilfER. .. 
IN THE NEXT 

I 
FIVE PA!JS/ 
I 


~ rl~~~~~ 
Guindon The Far Side 


Berke Breathed 

&Dave 
Gary Lar~>n 
59 -out (made do) 
61 -about (approxi· mately) 
62 Auberjonois of TV 64 Grain 
65 Navy man: abbr. 

Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. AFROTC Cadets Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Histone Gene Expression in Yeast," Dr. Mary Ann Osley, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -FUm, "Summer of 42," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1 •7:30p.m.-MeetingoftheFacultySenate, 202 CCE 

•8 
p.m. -Concert,Judy Kay Debruyne, Graduate Organ Recital, Sacred Heart Church 

•8 
p.m. -Voice Recital, Christine Vieck, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's 


TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 7p.m.  16 22 28 16 22 28  MASH Family Feud Wheel ofFonune Real People One Day At A Time Fall Guy  
7:30p.m. 8p.m.  22 16 22 28  Mama Malone FactsofUfe Wednesday Night Movie Dynasty  
8:30p.m. 9p.m.  16 16 28  Double Trouble St. Elsewhere Hotel  
10p.m.  16 22 28  NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28  
10:30p.m. llp.m. 11:30p.m.  16 22 28 28 16  Tonight Show Police Story/CBS Late MoVte ABC News Nightline Eye on Hollywood Late Night With David Letterman  

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  37 Sign of  66 Western  10 Tiny bit  
1 Pouch  pleasure  writer Grey  11 Once more  
4 Cabbage  38 H. H. Munro  67-Falana  13 Bus fare  
dish  40 Ryefungus  68 Happening  14 Tell  
8 Section of  42 Golf club  69 Short  18 Acts the  
the earth  43 Underworld  jacket  usher  
12 Fox or dog  45 Abominable  70 let it  20 Consumes  
14 loop  Snowmen  stand  24 Journal  
15 Kind of  71  Beatty film  
light 16 Flying prefix  47 Showsign 48 Merited 50 Tex. epi·  72 Before  26 Opera heroine 27 En-(all  
thet  together)  
17 Hawaii 19 Money man 21 Snow field 22 -and order 23 Listened to 25 Thin layer of ore 27 -State (W.Va.)  52 Roscoeof old movies 54 Baseball teams 55 Snake of Cleopatra 58 Portal  DOWN 1 Usea stiletto 2 Region 3 Nebraskan 4 Sun 5 locobird? 6 Fire residue  28 City of 3D 29 Actor Bruce 31 Delaware 32 Plants of a region 33 Sp. mister 36-your life! 39 Hebrides  
60 Magazine  7 Makes cloth  isle  
worker  8 Social  
31) Tightwads  63 License  insect  41 Most small  
34 Mornings  logo of  9 Aquatic  44 Release  
35 Spot  Minn.  animal  46 Dispatch  


49 las Vegas employee 51 Capture 
53 Strip of wood on a barrel 
55 Feels sick 
56 Chimney accumula· tion 
57 Type of 
bean 
Tuesday's Solution 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 5/2/84 

,·.. 

Notre Dame women's tennis team soundly defeats Saint Mary's, 9-0 
Susie Panther of Notre Dame defeated Debbie Lauerie, herSaint Mary's opponent atfirst singlesyes­terdtlJ·, 7-6, 6-2. The Irish destroyed the Belles, 9-0, in this match to gain confidence as they bead to Cbatanooga, Tenn., for the NOtA Division II Cham­pionships. 
By ~~-\RY SIEGER 
\jJOrt~ •Vrlter 

Net even the high winds could da·npt. n the enthusiasm on the co-•rts at the Courtney Tennis Cen­ter yesterday as the Notre Dame w· men's tennis team closed out Its ~ :a!~m witt-a 9-0 victory over Saint M01r:·'o; College. 
No • the Insh will take their 23-4 se.tso record to compete for the na­ti•.ma title in the NCAA Division II National Championship Tourna­ment early next week in 
.•,atan<-'oga, Tenn. 

"I won't he excited until we get t.lt.re," s. id Irish head coach Sharon I ·trc " .Vith two more days of 
tctiu and some players taking ri· •Is early, we've got a lot to do be­tw·:c:n now and then." 
\. '1ile the wind in yesterday's ·ompetition made play more dif­' icult it hc:lped the Irish improve heir com:entration, which will 
I ·nefit the team at Nationals. 
Susie Panther at number one 
nglt·s won an extremely com­1 ·:tative match for the Irish, 7-6, 6-2 a::ain >t Debbie l..auerie. A disagree­n.tnt in scoring caused the players 
t > cturn to the first point in the gar1c which, intensified the match. 
In first round 
"Susie played well once she got her head screwed on straight," said Petro. "Sometimes when you get mad, you play better." 
"My match was difficult because of the wind," explained Panther. "But Saint Mary's is a rival and it's al­ways nice to beat them." 
Because last weekend's matches against the University of Ohio and the University of Toledo were can­celled because of rain, yesterday's match helped the Irish prepare for Nationals in a competative, outdoor setting. Before the team leaves for Chattanooga, the Irish plan to inten­sify their training. 
Notre Dame is one ofeight teams participating in the Nationals and is amoung a corps ofthree midwestern teams travelling to Chattanooga. 
"We were invited because we did so well in California," said Irish co­captain Greta Roemer. "Since there is only one California school in the Tournament, it shows a shift of in­fluence from California to the Mid­west." 
On Monday, the Tournament opens with the Irish facing a tough squad from the University of Den­ver. If the Irish get past Denver they will advance to the second round where they will meet the University of Tennessee (Chattanooga) which is the defending national champion. If the Irish defeat Chattanooga, they will advance to the final round and a possible National Championship. 

"We can beat the University of Denver if we play well," said Petro. "But playing Chattanooga, who is the defending national champ on their own court will be difficult, so we must play our best tennis with­out a doubt." 
"We're extremely psyched to go and I think we defmitely have the ability to win," said Panther. "If we work hard and play smart we can do it." 
The Irish will enter the tourna­ment at a disadvantage. Like the rest of the undergraduate community, the Irish will be studying for their final exams in addition to fighting for the national title. So far, professors have been cooperative and per­mitted several team members to take their finals early or while they are in Chattanooga. 
In addition to Notre Dame's in­vitation the National Tournament as a team, four members of the Notre Dame lineup will compete in­dividually for the Irish. Panther and Irish co-captain Lisa LaFratta at num­ber one and number two singles, 
see TENNIS, page 6 
Greg Bell drafted by Buffalo 
A..'lliOCiated Press 

'J ·te Buffalo Bills gave Greg Bell of No.rc Dame, a tailback hampered by injuries the last two seasons, the dis­tinction of being the only running back selected in the first round of yesterday's National Football League draft. 
As a sophomore Bell averaged 5.6 yards per l:arry for the Irish, gaining 512 yards on 92 c,arries, including 165 in one game against Michigan State. Bell, from Columbus, Ohio, also averaged 28.5 yards per carry on kickoff returns -the best mark by a member of the Irish in I 3 years. But, from then on the 6-foot, 210­pound tailback had his playing time limited by injuries. 
Bills Coach Kay Stephenson ack­nowledged Bell's injury-prone past, but said the Bills had Bell rated as "the top running back" in the draft. 
"He'sgot good size, he's got excel­
lent speed, he has good strength, he has maneuverability, (and) he catches the ball well," said Stephen­son. "So he has the potential to be the all-around type back that you look for." 
A broken leg limited Bell to only 22 minutes of playing time the past two seasons, giving him career marks of only 70l yards and six touchdowns -hardly the type of figures usually associated with a frrst round running back. 
Stephenson said he thought Bell's fractured leg suffered in 1982 can mend. 
"Our doctors felt we could bring him in right after the draft, put him in a cast, and there is a device that will complete the healing process in his bone," said Stephenson. "It's an electric current-type treatment, and in six-to-seven weeks he should have complete healing ofthe bone." 
Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust 

was noticably pleased by Bell's 
selection so early in the draft. 
"I'm really happy because of his 
(Bell's) frustrating career," Faust 
said. "It's a real tribute to his athletic 
ability. He is an excellent athlete; he 
can run and catch the ball well. It's a 
shame we didn't get a chance to use 
him more." 
In the sixth round, defensive back Chris Brown of Notre Dame was chosen by Pittsburgh, and teammate defensive back Stacey Toran was chosen by the Los Angeles Raiders. 
Neil Maune, a 6-5, 278-pound of­fensive guard from Notre Dame, was selected by the Dallas Cowboys in the ninth round. Maune will be playing alongside Dallas lineman Phil Pozderac, another former Irish player. 
Portions of tbis story were writ­ten by Phil Wolf, Observer sports writer. 
Wednesday, April2, 1984-page 8 
An 'Items' salute: the first 'Chuckies' 
Chuck Freeby ~f~·, ~s_p_o_r_rs__w_r_it_e_r_________________~ ~~· ~~~\~ Irish Items /lf!!!Jlff:.:~ 
Hello again, everybody! 
After months and months of columns this year, it has all come down to this -the final "Irish Items" of the year (I can already see the wave of apathy rippling across the campus). After seeing hundreds of brilliant and a few not-so-brilliant performances during the year, it seems a fitting time to pass out some awards. Some of these can be taken seriously, others can be talten tongue-in-cheek ­it's up to you to decide. So, here they are: the frrst (and possibly, last) annual "Chuckies." 
Best Performance ... The Academy finds two nominees worthy of this award, as they have performed in the spotlight when it shone its brightest. 
l. Allen Pinkett -Everyone in the stadium knows he's going to carry the ball 2 5 times a game, but he still manages to gain over 120 yards an outing. His 217 yards rushing on the frozen turf of Beaver Stadium against Penn State was just an incredible display ofability. 
2. Tom Sluby -After three years of living in exile on the bench, the Gonzaga prep standout lived up to the raves that preceded his arrival at Notre Dame. He averaged nearly 20 points a game, and, more importantly, provided a leader and clutch player for the young Irish cagers. 
While both athletes are worthy ofthis column's equivalent to an MVP, the nod goes to Sluby based on the fact that he was more cru­cial to the basketball team than Pinkett was to the football squad. 
Best Actor ... The nominees are as follows: 
l. Tim Kempton in "Taking the Charge" -C'mon folks, let's be reasonable! Do you honestly expect me to believe that some lightweight guard driving down the lane can knock this big redhead down? It's like running a Volkswagen into a sequoia. 
2. Gerry Faust in "The Eternal Optimist" -No matter how the Irish looked, coach Faust always seemed to say something to the 
-effect of "We're this close to being a good team." Unfortunately, some weeks "this close" was a hair's breadth, while other weeks it was Yosemite National Park. 
3. The Irish Hockey Team in "Someone Forgot to Tell Us We Went Club" -Someone explain to me how a "club" team outdraws most varsity sports and kills most varsity opponents. Everybody from the top down seems to be happy this one-year fiasco is over. 
4.Digger Phelps in "Richard III" -First, he steals my line about "The beef is back." Now the next thing you know he'll have a Van Gogh on the coverofthe program and be using lines from the lllrd of Avon to talk about the 1984-85 season. 
And the winner is: Digger Phelps, who not only gets a "Chuckie", but a patchwork quilt to remind him of how many times he had to patch together the lineup last season. 
The Most Unheralded Freshman Performances of the Year ... Sure, everyone heard of Donald R:>yal and Hiawatha Fran­cisco during the year, but here are three freshmen who had great seasons that nobody knows about. 
I. Corinne DiGiacomo, field hockey -All this freshman did wao; tally 18 goals to lead jan Galen Bishop's stickwomen in scoring this season. Did anybody on campus hear about it? Maybe her roommate. 
2. 
joAnne Biafore, women's tennis -Another freshman who has compiled magnificent stats with a 15-2 record for Sharon Petro's netters this spring. The Irish could be on their way to a Division II national championship, but only the team will know about it. 

3. 
Charles Higgs-Coulthard, fencing -Before you scoffat the for­mal sounding name, remember that he won the NCAA champion­ship in the foil division. Don't mess with this guy if he is holding a sharp object. Any freshman who earns a national championship deserves a "Oluckie." 


The Most Tortuous Ordeals of1983-84 ... These three events tested the loyalty of even the biggest Irish fan: l. Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, men's basketball -Less than artistic wa~ the game. Less than pleased was Digger. Less than the price of admission is what the whole evening was worth. 
2. 
Midwestern City Conference Weekend, tennis and baseball -A rare ugly day for baseball at jake Kline Reid combined with a not-so­great day for tennis at the Courtney Tennis Center. With the wind howling in from the north at 30 mph, hard-hit fly balls were turned into harmless pop-ups and tennis lobs sailed to Kokomo. For fans, winning gave way to survival in importance. 

3. 
Liberty Bowl, football and ice skating -I wasn't there and neit· her were a lot ofother folks by the end ofthe game. Some games you want to keep frozen in time, but this one was frozen from the very beginning. There were a lot of people who thought the Irish shouldn't have gone to Memphis, and a lot offolks at the game who wished they hadn't (coaches and team excluded). 


Which one of these was the worst? Who knows. By now, you might be saying this column has all three events beat hands down. 
Thank-You Notes ... This wouldn't be a true award ceremony if there weren't a thank-you speech, so here goes. First ofall, thanks to my roommates for looking over several columns before they ever reached this page, so that I would not malte a fool of myself (obviously, sometimes it didn't help). Also, a big thank-you to the folks in the Sports Information Department for help in idea'> and information. Finally, thanks to all of you who read the column and passed on your complaints and compliments. I hope it wa'i entertain­ing and informative. 
Good luck on finals, have a great summer, and goodbye again, everybody! 




