----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Hesburgh-page 6 


By P.A. CIMINO Due to the system which the com­StaffReporter mittee has been forced to use, Riley has noted that a few problems have 
Only 20-25 percent of the developed in administering and Faculty/Course Evaluations have collecting the evaluations. "We have been returned so far, and at least 40 noticed problems with the collec­percent ofthem are needed, accord­tion ofcampus mail, lazy mail clerks ing to evaluation coordinator Bob in some of the halls, and a poor Riley. response from students. 
The FCE forms are the brainchild of Riley, the former District II stu­"It is in the best interest ofthe stu­dent senator. Riley promised dent to fill out and turn in the form student-administered teacher as soon as posible," he continued. evaluations during his campaign for "This is an evaluation by the student, 
the senate and has been working on for the student, and the more people the project for the past two years. who mail in their completed forms, 
"Evaluations were something the more credibility the evaluations which we thought the students will have." could benefit from," said Riley. "Originally we asked profs if they Riley also noted that prospects 
would release information from looked good and the committee was 
their teacher evaluation forms but confident they could reach their we got the feeling from their goal. "If we could get 40 percent, response that they would rather that would be excellent," he said. have us conduct our own evalua­
vreate an evaluation form The committee plans to compile which will be most beneficial to stu­the report over the summer and dents. then publish it in the fall. Next year's 
The Observer/Paul Cif.lrelli

"We took the best points from committee will be headed by' Paul evaluations conducted at other uni­Healy and Mark Rolincik "This is on­
Donald Keough, president ofCoca-Cola, addressed

versities including Harvard and In­ly a start'', said Riley. "When the 
a large crowd in the Library auditorium last night on

diana," said Riley. "We found the committee reconvenes we will get a 
Coke is it! America'sfuture, His speech, "Honda,j.R. Ewing, Mer­
Indiana evaluation to be the most lot offeedback. There should not be 
lin and Henny Penny," included advice to students

beneficial to our needs." any problems as long as there is a 
not to"rely solely on experts. On the really important

Riley mentioned they had smooth transition from his year to 
issues in life, there are no experts."

originally planned to limit the the next." evaluations to Arts and Letters courses and to administer them Riley said the student government during class periods. This idea met believes this to be one of the most 
Ruppe defended pro-life stance 
with disfavor among many profes­important and worthwhile projects sors and the committee finally it has undertaken in quite some time decided to make the evaluations a and as long as the students send their 
in front of a House Committee 
campus-wide event. forms in, it will be a success. 
ByDAN McCULLOUGH Peace Corps, the agency did not pay by volunteers while overseas, many News Editor for abortion procedures, but did pay of which require evacuation, I for the transportation and per diem believe I had no choice under the
Domino's President 
Peace Corps Director Loret to volunteers who wanted to return law but to pay similar expenses for Ruppe defended herself against to the United States to have the pro­pregnant volunteers returning to Washington Times articles which cedure performed. She also said that the U.S."
tells of pizza empire 
accused her of liberalizing the at the time of her appointment, She told the committee as a agency's abortion policy during tes­there was no established limit to the response she issued a memorandum timony before the House of number of abortions a volunteer outlining a "three-pronged effort" to
By MARC RAMIREZ Monaghan has been a Tigers fan 
Representatives Committee on could have and remain in service. reduce the incidence of unwanted
Assistant News Editor since his early childhood in Ann Ar­
Foreign Affairs on Feb. 8. "Current authorities appeared to pregnancies among the volunteers. · 
bor, Mich., where he was brought up The articles claimed Ruppe was require a continuation of the Peace
He promised to deliver the in Catholic orphanages and foster "First, I instituted a training
responsible for a "more permissive Corps policy," said Ruppe. 
lecture within 30 minutes or deliver homes. "All we had to do was play program for volunteers in familtypolicy that allows volunteers to She directed her General Counsel
it free of charge, and Thomas S. sports," he explained, "and baseball planning and sexual responsibility,
remain in the Peace Corps until after to obtain an opinion from theJustice
Monaghan, founder, chairman ofthe was the biggest. We were all Tiger and requested an upgrading of the a second abortion," rather than Department on the issue. The
board and president of Domino's fans. We'd all hang around the radio counseling skills ofour medical staff 
being dismissed after one. opinion, returned Nov. 20, 1981,
Pizza, Inc., lived up to his word as when the Tigers played. We knew all in this area Second, I had the The articles also say Ruppe states, "We conclude that the Preg­
guest speaker at the Saint Mary's there was to know about them. counseling of pregnant volunteers 
decided to continue that practice of nancy Discrimination Act (PDA)
Business Associates Luncheon yes­"I always wanted to play both in-country and in the United 
using federal money to fund abor­would prohibit the Peace Corps
terday. shortstop. When that began to seem States redesigned to emphasize al­
tion counseling, transportation and from implementing any across-the­
"Most people ask me what it's like ternatives abortions and the
not possible, I dreamed of owning to 
to own the (Detroit) Tigers," them." per diem expenses ofpregnant mot­board policy of terminating volun­prevention of future preg­hers. teers who become pregnant while
The success of the company nancies . . . . Finally, I determined 
But Ruppe told the Congressional overseas or pregnant volunteers
Monaghan founded in 1960 helped that any volunteer requesting a 
committee, "I have been, and con­who elect to have abortions ....
make that dream come true second abortion during her tour of 
tinue to be, an active opponent of With respect to the funding of
(Monaghan purchased the Detroit service with the Peace Corps was ac­
abortion on demand. I believe my abortion-related expenses, we con­
baseball franchise in September, ting with such a degree of irrespon­
record in the pro-life movement clude that the Peace Corps is not
1983). Domino's, Inc., is the largest sibility that automatic separation
speaks for itself. However, my cur­barred from using appropriated
pizza delivery company in the world from the Peace Corps was war­
rent position as the Director of the funds to pay travel costs and a per
and the second largest pizza chain in ranted." 
Peace Corps requires me to take an diem to volunteers who arethe country. 
oath to uphold the law. evacuated for the purpose ofobtain­At the same committee hearing,Domino's began in Ypsilanti, "Therefore, I am not free to imple­ing an abortion, and, in fact, that the Representative Henry Hyde (R-Ill.),
Mich., under the name "Dominic's," 
ment policy based on my personal Pregnancy Discrimination Act known in Congress for his strongand when Monaghan's brother beliefs without regard to legal re­(P.L.95-555) requires the Peace pro-life stand, told Rup!*, "I have
James elected not to give up the 
quirements. Consequently, I have Corps to continue paying those read the legal memorandum ofyoursecurity ofhis former job, Monaghan
Thomas S. Monaghan directed by efforts toward achieving costs, so long as travel and per diem counsel and I don't see any problem,
bought out his brother's partner­Monaghan said. "I think now I'm 
the administrations pro-life policies, expenses are paid to volunteers frankly . . . . I am satisfied that you
ship. He opened stores in nearby ready to die and go to Heaven. 
but have been limited in my ability evacuated for other comparable are following the law and you areAnn Arbor and Mount Pleasant, and 
"When I got a plane, I wanted a to do so by the requirements of medical disabilities." not out of step with this adminitra­
gave the business the name of 
bigger one. When I got a boat, I legislation and the decisions of the Ruppe, in response to the Justice tion, and you are doing a fine job in a 
Domino's. wanted a bigger one. But when I got 
Supreme Court." Department's opm10n. testified, difficult situation." 


the Tigers, I didn't want anything see PIZZA, page 5 Ruppe also told the committee "Since we have full responsibility for 
see RUPPE, page 5

that when she became)1e~d ~f the any medical cenditions developed
else." 
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1984·-page 2 
A protest post-mortem 
In Brief 
.The 1984 Anny ROTC Spring Awards 
Ceremony was held yesterday in the Ubrary Auditorium, and Cadet Scott Hohar assumed his first duty as 1984-85 Cadet Battallion Com­mander at the event. Among the awards given, Senior Mike Sees received the Commander's Saber, Senior Dave Speach was given the Deputy Commander's Award and Superior Cadet Awards were presented to SeniorJim Dever, Junior Eric Fredrickson, Sophomore Kevin Browne and Freshman Pat Doyte. -The Observer 
The new OffiCerS for the Student Organization for Central America (SOLA) for the 1984-85 academic year wlll be Joe Bongiovi, president; Alejandro Foxley, vice president; Sylvia Elexavide, secretary; and Pat Neary, treasurer. -The Observer 
Taking over the adntinistration of the 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Ground Zero group for the 1984-85 school year will be Bill Stuhldreher, chairman; Bridget Sullivan, Notre Dame vice chairman; Lisa Wilson, Saint Mary's vice chairman; Mary Kay Maginn, treasurer; Beth Bilyev and Harry Blanton, co­secretaries. -The Observer 
The Judicial Council named Joe Zahn the new coordinator effective immediately. "My primary goal is to make the council ...henificial to the community." -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The SouthBend Police Departmentwm 
OlfKIUCt an lUlclaimL'll bicycle and property auction ocginning at 
H:30 a.m.. Satun.lay, at the rear ofthe polio: station, 70I W. Sample Street. "Inc s:ilc will conclude at I:30 p.m. A partial list ofitems to oc sold arc bicycles, tools, clothing, hubcaps, 1>tereos, AM-FM radios, and other miscellaiK'OUS items. ProcLWS go to the Police Pension Fund. -The Ohsemer 
"Conscienceand the l.aw': Religion and Govem­
mt·nt in Conflict" will he the topic of a lecture by Dr. William Dur­land, founder and legal counsel for the Center for Law and Pacificism, Colorado. The talk in Room I05 of the Law School is sponsored hy the Thomas). White Center for Law and Government and the Social Justice Forum. It is open to the public without charge. 
-The Observer 
The missing George Gipp scenesin televi­
sion copies ofthe "Knute Rockne-All American" will be shown on an ABC-lV special May I 0. A segment of the third edition of "Celebrities: Where Are They Now?" will explain the disappearance of two scenes. One is the death bed scene where Gipp, pla¥<id }>Y a young Ronald Reagan, implores his coach, Knute Rockne, played by the late Pat O'Brien, to "win one for the Gipper," and the other is a following scene where Rockne recounts the entreaty in an emotion­
al locker room talk to his players. Both scenes were removed when the pre-1948 Warner Brothers film library was sold for television distribution in 1956. Notre Dame, which has a rare uncut copy ofthe film, gave the show's producers, the Dick Clark Company, permis­sion to copy the missing scenes. -The Obsen'er 
The French Club at SaintMary's wm spon­
sor a Mass al 10:30 a.m. May 6 in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. Father Andre Leveille, vocation director of Moreau Seminary, will celebrate the Mass in French. The Mass is open to the public. -The 
Ohsen'er 
Weather 
Weekend weather will start off cloudy and cool today with a chance of drink. High in low to mid 50s. Mostly cloudy and cool ronighr. Low in low to mid 40s. Partly sunny and warmer tomorrow with high in mid 60s. -I{P 


The_Observer 
The Obs.orver ( t·~PS ~'i'J l-~000) i> puhlt~hc.:c.J ,\1onc.Ja~ throu~h Friday anLI on hum<· toothall ~arurc.Jar.~. t:xn:pl dunng t.·xam Jnd \'ac.:ation pc.·rioll!'l The ()b..,rv.-r I> publo>ht·d h\' tht· >IUtknt>of tht..· l'nin·rsity of N'Hft" ·Dame.: and "iamt .\1ary·~ Lolkl(t' ~Uh!'l,:ription~ mav he.: purt ha,..·d l(>r $!<; pn )Tar ( S 1 <;. per "~c.·mc.·Mc.·r) hy wrilmK The Ohst.~rvcr. P 0 Bhx Q. Notre Dana·. lrllliana ·t6'i'i() 
The Ob..erver "a mt·mbt:r ofThe As· sociated Pres.'i. All rt.:protluc.:tion ri~lu~ art: rl"~t·rvt·d. 
Today's issue W:I.S produced by: 
Design Editor ......... Thorn:IS Roben Small Design Assistant..... Usa Marie Vislngardl Layout Staff........................ Dorothy Doran Tvpesellers .................................... Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor........................ Teresa Guarino Copy Editor ..................... EdwardKonrady Sports Copy Editor.....................jeiJBiumb Viewpoint Layout .................. David Grote Featun?s Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout............ Margaret McCabe ND Da}• Editor..... ............ Barbara Stevens .'iMCIJay Editor............ MaAAic O'Connell Ad Desl}(n . .. .. Bob Slota Pboto}(rapber..... .. ...... Paul Cifurdli 


· 
Some of the more resiliant banners still swing in defiance on the quads, but many more have fallen, vic­tims of rectors and and a protest movement that switched from passion to reason. 
Exams begin in five days, and August seems a whole summer away. But when we return, the alcohol policy will be here to greet us, 99 percent ofit intact, just as we saw it on April I 7 when the party really ended. 
So what have the protests done? Infuriated some, for sure. We made a few chuckle -such as Dean of Stu­dentsJames Roemer-who wondered ifwe had better things to do. 
By the way, have you ever noticed that many of the people who claim that we are such an intelligent stu­dent body are the first ones to disown us when the tide turns? Last spring, Dean Roemer said he was impressed when hundreds offriends ofa senior rushed to his aid at a meeting in the Morrissey chapel. The student was appealing his dismissal for an incident at a bar in Ft. Lauderdale. 
After a one hour discussion, Roemer changed his mind, and he lauded the students' concern. The semi­staged event ended wirh Roemer holding an alternate proposal in the air, looking like a model of justice, and announcing the student would stay. 

Now, just one year later, Roemer plays up to the na­tional media, saying how embarrassed he is for ·us. Not a single administrator had the nerve to admit that the stu­dents had a legitimate gripe, but simply were going about protesting the wrong way. 
Yet, the sad fact is that most administrators know that the students have a point, but they were so caught up in maintaining their "immorality of drunkenness" shroud that to recognize the students would be to suggest com­promise. 
The morality line is getting a little hard to stomach now. Ifdrunkenness is so immoral, why not emphasize a crackdown in other areas, too, including Morris Inn, 
Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 
Inside Friday. 

Corby Hall, Green Field and the Monogram Room. Let's hold our breath waiting for the first parent or alumnus censured for drunkenness on campus. I suppose the ul­timate punishment would be to expell the violator from the Alumni Association. The real issue is University liability here, and don't believe otherwise. 
Some positive signs from the protest, however, are appearing with the haste with which the University is proceeding with plans for an enlarged and upgraded student center. Word from under the Dome suggests that Father Hesburgh has given a carte blanche to the project, and preliminary sketches are already being composed by a local architect. 
Such plans are long overdue for the place that few students call their center. The additions sound interest· ing -a bowling alley, shops, an undergraduate club ­but the center will not be any social panacea It lacks and will always lack the one thing that students need: a party room. 
For che underlying issue in this whole embroglio is the idea of the party. Not a single "alternative" that has been mentioned so far will be able to replace it. The peculiar combination of music, dancing, plenty of people, and yes -alcohol, ha~ been the standard social highlight for years. And in a great majority of cases, it has been a tradition that has allowed people to meet others and enjoy themselves while not necessarily get­ting drunk, as the Alcohol Committee mistakenly con­tends. 
Underclassmen will carry on the tradition -on or off campus -not necessarily to he rebellious, but because parties are truly good, not inherently evil. 
What the University seems to be attempting is to change students' attitudes toward socializing, not just their attitudes toward alcohol. Good luck. It will be years before that attitude will change, if it ever does, and the transition years will be quite tough on those underclassmen. 
The Alcohol Committee did recommend that a com­mittee look into the whole social life question and come up with a plan. To date: no committee, no plan. Would someone like to come and clean up the mess that the alcohol policy has left? Father Beauchamp, Father Tyson ...you both have a little free time now, don't you? 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board orstaff. 

Looking for something to fill those long dull evenings? 
next previous necessary, and a sense of humor both essential. Lear valuable layout skills have fun too. Stop by Lafortune office this for an application and info. Questions about fantastic opportunity? Call Margaret at 239-5303. 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club 
GOLF TOURNAMENT 

This Weekend at the 

Friday: 
*Stairwell Party -catherine McCabe and Robbie freebairn 
. ....... 
*Songs, Storl&s, tltrd Sing-a-longs from 
~ .... jv•.;..._ the pubs of Ireland -John Kennedy and Joe Dolan 

-;,l'h,·~·,.~I"J..I*~:;:~·;. 
. ~-,·~·Jii'i'i'i'i'i'i"i'i'i'i'i'i'l'i'ii'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'i'l'i'l'i'i'l'l".'ii"·····i'l'l~iiillllllll 
The Observer ·Friday, May 4, 1984 -page 3 

o You Wont To Participate In ~ t Movies ComeTo Campus? 
Join The Student Activities Board Movie Commission 8 POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Is 
Sign up on the 2nd Floor 
l..oQ~!o~~~;~.r.J 
Red Eyes? Can't Think? Need A Break? Relax. 
and order a DOMINO'S Pizza. E We are open for lunch during 
Finals. Call277-2151 to order. 30minute service guaranteed 
I~ 
00""~~1
I 
I ~ 
I
I 
I
I 
~ 

St. Mary's Director of Campus Ministry Reid to relocat~ to Seattle 
By MARY PADDEN 
News Staff 
Tom Reid, Saint.Mary's director of 
Campus Ministry for four years will 
be leaving in June for Seattle where 
his wife has accepted a clinical inter­
nship. 
During the past four years the department saw substantial growth in staff and student involvement. In addition, Reid said a "team orienta­tion" developed within the depart­ment. 
Reid's wife, Molly, currently working on her Ph.D. in psychology at Notre Dame, has been accepted into a clinical internship at the Uni­versity ofWashington in Seattle. 
Reid decided to make the move as this year marks a four-year cycle at Saint Mary's. The area of relocation was advantageous as two of Reid's brothers are Washington residents. "We knew the move would come eventually, but we weren't expect­ing it to be so soon," Reid said. 
Reid praised the quality of Saint Mary's programs, and the acces­sbility of both faculty and ad­ministration. 
His time at Saint Mary's enabled him to gain new insight. "Working at a women's college has helped me to grow in a number of ways. Being a man in a predominantly female at­mosphere helped me to become more sensitive to the needs ' of women." 
Reid is pleased with the direction that Campus Ministry at Saint Mary's is taking. He said increased involve­ment in programs such as the Fast for a World Harvest, Three Minutes to Midnight, and other peace­oriented functions of this spring 
iCorby·sl 
----------------------~ 
3-8 Happy Hour Mixed Drinks 2for 1
~~~···· 
Irish Pitchers $2 Sat. open 8 a.m. Pre (Corby Open) Drinks! 
No bones about it ... ...we need ad designers 
The Observer is currently 
accepting applications for fall 
advertising designers. No 
experience required -just 
creativity and enthusiasm. 
call Suzanne at 239-7471 
or stop up at The Observer's 3rd floor 
LaFortune oJiice for an application 

show that Campus Ministry has 
become a vital part of the Saint 
Mary's community. 
After leaving. Reid plans to con­tinue hisworkwith Retreats Interna­tional by offering spiritual growth programs and consulting with people in retreat ministry. He hopes to expand his work to include those ofall ages. 
Family and premarital counseling are two areas in which Reid would enjoy beinginvolved. He believes by extending his ministry to these areas, he would be able to help people relate better to family needs. 
His relationship with Campus Minstry as a specialization has come to a close, but he feels his work in human and spiritual development has only begun. 
Both Reid and Sister Karol Jack­owski, dean ofstudent affairs at Saint Mary's, have a great deal of con­fidence in his replacement. 
Mary Feely has been named to the position, and will assume duties as director August 1. 
Feely is currently director of Lay Formation, and associate professor of Pastoral Theology at the St. Francis Seminary in Milwaukee. She has had previous involvement in the South Bend area as director of religious education at Holy Cross parish and through teaching theol­ogy at Notre Dame during the spring '>emester of 1982. 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, the fourth place winner in the Ugly Man on Campus contest was incorrectly reported in yesterday's Obseroer. John Sharkey finished fourth in the contest. 



We have comfortable beds for aching backs. Fine restaurants and lounges for tired throats. A convenient location. 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue 
September 8, 1985 
tl·-...:a.~

The Indianapolis Hoosier Dome 
~~'S'~ 
'!t J!

Special Football Fan Rate: 
SheratOn

$49~00 per room per night 
Meridian 

_
For ReseJVations Call: _. ._~ SHERATON. HOTELS & INNS. WORLDWIDE 2820 NORTH MERIDIAN INDIANAPOLIS. INDIANA 3171924·1241
(317) 924-1241 
The Observer Friday, May 4, 1984 -page 4 
Survey shows bro~d range of ND beliefs 
BY RICHARD PILGER 
StuffReporter 
A survey of Notre Dame stud<.:nts' 
moral attitudes has recently been 
conducted hy a professor from Mar­
quette I lniversity. The poll covered 
a broad spectrum ofissues involving 
violentT, sex, politic:s, religion, 
racism and drug~ 
Dr. Daniel Maguirt: is a visiting 
professor ofethics this year. II is poll 
is the starting point for his classes 
and has devdopt·d over fifteen years · 
ofteaching at Marquette. 
Currently. more than a hundred 
questions comprise the survey, 
which has often grown from the sug­
gestions of Maguin:'s students. 
Tht· polling of 299 Notre Dame 
~udents occurred in three upper­
levd theology and sociology classes, 
but participation was not man­
datory. Of the 299, 66 percent wc·re 
male. Most questions required one 
of three answers: yes, no or don't 
know. 
"The results," said Maguire, "indicate that students here arc remarkably conventional and con­scrvatin·." lie added that the at­titudt·s of mo~t students point to dass consdou~ness over social awart·•w~s. citing the overwhelming support f(>r Reagan against the <.kmocratic candidates. In the sur­wy. Rt·agan heat Jackson by 66 per­tTill. Mondalc by 56 percent. Those who nHlsidt·rcd themselves politi­cally active. however, numbered on­ly 25 pt·rcent. · 
Maguire also noted an ironic rt·sponse to questions on abortion. While H8 percent of those surveyed consider tht·msclves religious, and H9 percent wish their children to be raised in their religion, 56 percent f(>Und abortion morally acceptable in certain circumstances. Eighty­f(>Ur perct·nt found contraception acceptable; 51 percent believed that t·uthanasia can be morally justified. 
OthtT results showed iarge dif­ferenct•s in the opinions of men and womt·n. "'omen were far less tokrant ofviolence than males, with 56 pt·r<.Tnt of responding !<.·males agrt'l'ing that violence can bt· moral­ly acceptable. to 72 percent of the men. Fifty pncent of the males could imagine circumstances in which tht·y would take a human life, while only 17 percent ofthe women could do so ( although 24 percent had contemplated suicide, to 22 per­n:nt of the n~t:n ). 
Men wert· consistently less religiously orknted than women, H5 percent of tht· males considering themselves religious, to 94 percent of the !Cmales. None of the women pktured (iod as ft·minine, while one j'lcrcent of the men did. 
Sixty·tive percent of the men bdievnlthemsclves in some way ra­cially prejudiced, versus S2 percent oftht· women. "'omen were usually more const·rvative toward extra­marital sex, but at the same time mort· tolerant of homosexuality and masturbation. Twenty-four percent of the males accepted casual sex be­tween strangers to 4 pt-rcent of the females. 
While 61 percent of those sur­veyed found themselves in some way racially prejudied, 76 percent approved of interracial marriages. 
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 
You wrap or we wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka at Logan Mon.· Fri. 8:30-5:00 We Ship· Exclusively UPS 
~~~~~~wCQCCDQCCCCDOCCCCC~~~~ 



;~ ·GRBAtUlt'L §r SENIORS! I
Restaurant and Cocktail L.oung f.IE~~~il, Authentic Szechuan and Hunan Tas 
LUNCH SPECIAL 
ISMC Wine and Cheese Party I 

Any Combination Plate for only 
~ Tonight 7-9:00 ~ 

ln.clu~es rice, soup, egg roll $2g.:.
fned nee, entree u 
i ~
$2.00 Haggar Center (SMC)

and hot tea · 
272-7376 
~ Semiformal ~ L-~~~~~~~~....o--~~..-co-~~~~~~~~~~~...o--...oc:cc--~..J 
Weekend at the 

This NtiZZ
Saturday: 

*Dryland (a contemporary rock band) John McEachern, Jeff York Paul Cimino, Mark Schippits Mark Shepard 
8:30·10:30 
*Jazz Combo (last chance of the year to hear jazz in the Nazz) Barry Herbert, Bob Ward, Clyde Alford, Pete Weis, 
Brian Burke, Kevin Quinn 10:30·? 



0 715 North Ave. 0 One Dutch Hill Rd.
Return to: New Rochelle Orangeburg New York 10801 New York.10962 (914) 636-2100 ext. 592 (914) 3~:-225~. 

Yes, I would like further information on tft:fblrtWing programs: 
~/ t: 

The Observer Friday, May 4, 1984-page 5 
-------------------------------------------------------------------~~~------~~ 
Pizza
--····-·-··;~~:·;~:·;~~;;~·--···---~ 
continuedfrom page 1 
Lately? 5 "Dominic's was too common," Monaghan said, "and I thought we
Now's your c::hanc::e to hit that a 
might have trouble with the name. 
Home Run you've been dying for! So I picked Domino's. It sounded 
Italian, and I didn't know anyone
The Student Activities Board is else with that name. 
sponsoring a SOFfBALL ROUND "The reason there's three dots (on the Domino's logo) is because we
ROBIN TOURNAMENT between 
had three stores at the time. I was
dorms on Saturday, May 5. planning to add a dot for every store 
we opened. Could you imagine a
Picnicfrom 11-1pm 
domino with 1,400 dots?" 
After finding a niche in the pizza
Featuring "The Law" playing 
delivery business, Monaghan's store&om 1-4pm in Ypsilanti "became a little legend. ............................................................................................................................... It was the busiest pizza place in the 
--------------------------­
r-------------------------,
1 United Limo I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ·· I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I II
All STOPS EASTERN STD. TIME EFFECTIVE APRIL 29. I984 SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 
Clip and Save this Schedule 

L-------------------------­
Ifyou have at least two years of college left, you can spend six weeks at our Army Rare Basic Campthis summerandearn approximately $600. 
And ifyou q_u~. you can enter the ROTC 2~ Year Program this fall and receive up to $1,000 a year. 
But the big payoff happens on graduation day. That's when you receive an officer's commission. 
So_get your body in shape (not to mention your bank account). 
Enroll in Army Rare. For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science. 
J .. 

CALL: CPT 
239-6264 
.:-:··.~···~;!!,..-~-~ ..._;"!:'If_...._..... ·..;.-... "-:,.......• .................._·.."-•,;. •a.'··~ •a.""·•..•.........•..•..•......•.........,;..~ ... ·•..-· ••• ··......... ·~ ...........; ­

country. But starting a chain is tough. Number two is five times as 
Ruppe

hard as one, and three is five times as 
hard as two," he said. 
By the end of 1983, however, Domino's, Inc., reported sales of al· most $370 million, or approximate­ly $450,000 per store, and currently is planning to construct a 30-story corporate headquarters, using a design by architect Frank Lloyd Wright that was never built, in Ann Arbor. 
And Monaghan sees no saturation point in sight. Pizza Hut, Domino's top competition, has 4,000 stores nationwide "and they're doing fine," he said. "We can· build our stores closer to each other than they can." 
Monaghan said Domino's doesn't concentrate on building franchises near college campuses. "We started out that way," he said, "but we used to lose a lot ofmoney in the summer. Military bases are a different story, though. They're like campuses all year long." 
The lecture was delivered free. 
continuedfrom page 1 
Some anti-abortion groups dis· agree with the Justice Department's interpretation of the PDA. James Bopp, Jr., general counsel to the the National Right·to·Life Committee, stated in a letter to the NRLC's Legislative Director Douglas Johnson, "I have concluded that the Justice Department has taken an ex· tremely narrow interpretation ofthe abortion exception in the PDA not warranted by the plain lang1.1age of the statute .... The PDA does not require the payment of travel or per diem expenses to Peace Corps employees seeking abortions." 
Ruppe's Public Affairs Officer Hugh O'Neill told The Observer that Ruppe would not comment on the issue beyond the transcript provided of the Congressienal hearing. 
r Corby'~l 
3-8 Happy Hour Mixed Drinks 2for 1

~~~···· 
Irish Pitchers $2 Sat. open 8 a.m. Pre (Corby Open) Drinks! 
Transfer Orientation Organizational Meeting 
? 

Monday, May7 6:30p.m. Little Theatre 
LaFortune All are welcome 

Earn Money 
Campus Mailman 
needed for 1984-85 school year 

. you must be approved by financial aid . apply at Student Activities Board -offices, 2nd floor, Lafortune 
Put us tq the Test! 

DOMINO'S PIZZA is ready fqr finals. We will be open 11 a.m. to 3 a.m. from Monday, May 7 to Tuesday, May15 We guarantee 30 minute service 
~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t__________________M_ida~y,_Ma~y4-,l-98-4~p~age_6 
Who's in charge? 
Father William Beauchamp says it is set in day of the alcohol report. The directive 
concrete. Dean of Students james Roemer should have been issued later, he said. 
says it is open to negotiation. Confused? You Thanks for the opinion, Father, but it's a 
aren't alone. little late. For 10 months Beauchamp's com­
Two and a half weeks ago, the 28-page mittee has been working on the alcohol 
final report of the University Committee on report, but the first time students publicly 
the Responsible Use of Alcohol was issued. hear your opinion on the document, you say 
Released at the same time was a two-page its release was handled incorrectly. 
directive from Roemer outlining the rules Limiting alcohol consumption on campus 
that hall staffs would follow in implementing is the most important decision by the Uni­
the alcohol policy. versity affecting student life since Notre 
The alcohol policy, according to Beauc­Dame accepted coeducation in 1971. It 
hamp, is final. Roemer's directive, which was would seem any college president would 
issued as a "draft," is now apparently open to want to be involved actively in the forma­
discussion. It is the directive that contains tion of such an important policy, but sadly, 
such Medieval rules as the ban on bars and Hesburgh limited his role to second guess­
the limit on the number ofpeople in a dorm ing. Students expect more leadership from a 
room. person considered one of the most influen­
Few students -or anyone else in the tial experts on American education. 
Notre Dame community for that matter -Where has Father Hesburgh been anyway? 
seem to understand the difference between The day the students stormed the Ad­
the two documents, and this undoubtedly ministration Building, he was in Japan. Last 
has hampered enlightened and responsible Friday during student government's more 
debate of the alcohol question. sober rally, Hesburgh was in Florida to 
But whose fault is this? Notre Dame Presi­receive another honorary degree. 
dent Father Theodore Hesburgh blames his Maybe someday Father Hesburgh will 
staff. Hesburgh told the Alumni Senate last prove that as Notre Dame president, he is 
weekend that the administration had erred more concerned with Notre Dame students 
in releasing drafts of the directive within a than his world-wide interests. 
1 Abilgail McCarthy 
Abilgail McCarthy, the commencement She has made a name for herself apart from 
speaker at Saint Mary's, outspoken being the wife of former senator and one­
proponent of Catholic women's colleges time presidential candidate Eugene 
and women's rights activist, will serve as an McCarthy. She does not need to ride on the 
ideal model for the graduates of 1984. coattails of prominent politicians because 
During the spring unemployed seniors she has a sense of identity which she con­
begin to question the value oftheir Catholic tends a Catholic women's college provides. 
liberal education and how useful it will be in 
their careers. McCarthy is a wise choice 
precisely because ofthese apprehensions. 
She is a writer, ecumenist, lecturer and 
promoter of women's rights, but she is first 
and foremost a graduate of a Catholic 
women's college. Her career attests to the 
fact that a Catholic women's college 
provides the skills and integrity necessary 
for modern careers. 
She is a columnist for the Catholic 
magazineCommonweal. In a recent column 
she discussed the surprising number of 
women in public service who graduated 
from Catholic women's colleges. She said 
about the honors graduates: "The common 
thread running through the lives of 
honorees is that they were prepared to do, 
and did, whatever they did well, and that 

they had a strong sense of social respon­McCarthy should be able to convey her 
sibility." sense ofconfidence and social responsibility 
McCarthy's accomplishments to the students who are about to leave the demonstrate her strong sense of social College and are questioning what they will responsibility. McCarthy shows leadership be taking with them as they begin their qualities in the world ofChurch and politics. careers. 
Shakespeare readings 
To the men of Cavanaugh it must have darkness has overcome the day. Only a few seemed like a midsummer night's dream. stragglers, wrapped in blankets endure the Just outside their dorm, from dawn to dusk chill of morning's wee hours. One or two and all through the night, the works of Wil­persons stop to watch the happenings upon liam Shakespeare were recited and the stage, enroute to Senior Bar, or back sometimes dramatized for more than 100 from the library. Fade out. continuous hours. Such were the scenes from last week's 
But it was no illusion. Hundreds of volun­marathon in which students, administrators, teers took turns at the tragedy ofKing Lear facuhy members and student organizations and the "Et tu, Brute" fromju/tus Caesar. found themselves reading from the works of 
The Shakespeare Reading Marathon the bard. Sometimes crowds gathered to united the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's hear a scheduled reader, other times stu­community in pursuit of a noble cause: dents who happened to find themselves on raising money for the family of Professor the new quad at 3 a.m. stepped in to keep the 
Ken Milani whose son, Adam was seriously marathon alive. injured while playing hockey last year. In ad­In any case, the spirit was the same, a dition, the marathon's organizers were desire to be part ofa campus activity, to aid a aiming at the world record for reading worthy cause, to steal the show f()r an hour Shakespeare. or two. 
Fade In: A sun-soaked quad where once a Bravo to Professor Paul Rathburn and the fieldhousc stood, now filled with lounging Shakespeare Club, to all readers, to anyone people munching upon morsels of lunch, who contributed to the S3,000 collected for conversing with friends; passers-by obstruct the Milani Fund, and to all who paused for the view of those seated as they stop to even a minute to listen. Congratulations for watch the troupe upon the stage. Fade out. realizing a well-organized and well­
Fade In: The same quad, but now night's supported activity. 
The Ob~erv~.­
A good place to be 
In the past few days, several articles have ethics and the military comlex as comple­
appeared discussing the role of ROTC at ments rather than opposites. What could be a 
Notre Dame. Specifically, they debated more appropriate guideline when people 
whether or not Catholic ideals and values must deal with other people? 
were compatible with those of the military. My next "crisis of faith" arose when I was 
Dispensing with technical phrases and bibli­awarded a ROTC scholarship at the conclu­
cal quotes. I would like to present a broader sion ofmy freshman year. Due to the fact that I 
am not majoring in a technical field, I was re­
quired to choose a combat specialty, or

John Perez "category." 
The AFROTC graduate, after commission­
ing, is required to serve his/her initial tour of
Guest column 
duty in this occupational area. My category is 
that of missiles. Should I continue in the 

and more personal view of the Reserve Of­ROTC program, I will eventually be entrusted 
ficers Training Corps and how it affects me as with the supervision, maintenance, and in the 
a Catholic. event of all-out war the launching of nuclear 
Upon entering the Air Force ROTC weapons. 
program here two years ago. I was immediate­Based upon my studies and individual 
ly confronted with a seemingly insur­research into U.S. military policy, I have con­
mountable mound of paperwork, with cluded that my relationship with su~h 
questions ranging from "What is your mot­weapons of potential mass destruction po~es 
her's maiden name?" to "Have you ever advo­no threat to my views as a Catholic. CathoUc 
cated armed opposition to the government of moral teaching condones the waging ofa "just 
the United States?" war" for a "just cause". Strategic nucl~ar 
I struck me as significant that nowhere weapons, in their role as deterrents of wrr. were there any references to one's personal have the capability toprevent war. I can envi­religious and moral values. At this point, I was sion nothing more just (and therefore Cath­forced to ask myself the following question: olic) than this. "Will ROTC require me to compromise these As I write this, I have yet to decide whether values?" I had no alternative but to wait and or not to continue in ROTC. The ROTC staff see. and instructors have gone to great pains to 
I approached my first class with some present a fair and objective picture of the Air 
trepidation. I had no idea ofwhat the course's Force world. None ofmy questions have gone 
scope, format, and objectives would be. unanswered. I see no reason for the ROTC 
However, the instructor promptly dispelled curriculum to be changed. 
any fears I had about being brainwashed into Thomas Paine, a prominent American 
becoming a "baby-killer". statesman during the Revolutionary War, 
He emphasized the fact that all cadets incur stated that "those who expect to reap the no military service obligation during the first blessings of freedom must undergo the two years of ROTC (now reduced to one year fatigues of supporting it." It is in protecting grace period), and that under no cir­this freeedom, in helping the "weak and cumstances would we be forced to perform unarmed" mentioned in an earlier article in any act we genuinely considered to violate this series, that a person's Catholic character the tenets of our faiths. was an opportunity to make itselfshine. 
He ended the class by posting Douglas It is for this reason that Notre Dame and MacArthur's three-word definition of military ROTC form such a good match. The outstand­service: duty, honor, country. I have yet to for­ing records of our ROTC units, including the get the significance of this, and probably Air Force detachment's number 1 rankip.g 
never will. among ROTC units in the country, bear this 
Over the next few months, I gained an im­out. I may be unsure as to my commitment~o mense sense of respect and admiration for "duty, honor, and country" via.the Air Force, those in the armed forces. My conception of but I am positive that my Catholicism will the military as an organization changed help my meet these and other responsibilities'
•

drastically. The massive, inefficient, no matter what path I take. dehumanizing monolith of old gave way to a modern, flexible, people-oriented institution john Perez is a sophomore in the College of based on teamwork and thought rather than Business atNotre Dame. He is also a member status and fear. ofthe AFROTC here and is currently training 
In this framework I came to see Christian for service in missile silos. 
P.O. BoxQ 
dents who would have abosrbed the price for the 25 empty seats, thus doubling the price of

Student Union trip 
the bus. The Student Union Florida trip was Dear Editor: able to hire buses because ofthe large number 
I am writing in response to the letter that ofpeople requiring transportation. appeared in The Observer April 25, entitled Rental cars, our choice by majority vote Student Union Fiasco, to Aspen, Colorado. cost $80 ( S47 plus gas) round trip to Aspen The allegations made by three misinformed that also gave them transportation for the participants of the trip -George Raikos, entire week in Aspen. Students were informed Kevin Campo, and Maureen Clune were not before hand that midsize cars, not compacts based upon fact. would be rented and that their factory stated 
First and foremost, after three organization­capacity offive people would be filled. al meetings, nine days in Aspen, and additional Is this not reasonably priced? Although ski correspondences, the two names which they racks were not on top ofeach car, each person cited as their Student Union Representatives that needed transportation for their skis were WRONG. This is a blatant example of received it at the same price of $80. their misinformation concerning the entire Although there were minor confusions at 
trip. times, we handled each one responsibly and 
The participants of the ski trip received six courteously to the best ofour ability and were nights and five days in the town of Aspen for always available to help those with unex­S265 which included a S 12 5 five day lift ticket pected problems. More was done by myself 
to be used at either Aspen Mountain, and other organizers to satisfy the demands 
Snowmass, or Buttermilk ski areas. As made on us by the above three participants to promised each participant had access to 
no avail. 

jucuzzis, hot tubs, outdoor heated pool with a As organizers, we could have understood swim-up bar, and saunas! that letter had their allegations been justified, As for Summit Party Cards -no activities however through their own misconception 
took place where cards were needed for ad­they failed to see the true opportunity offered mittance. by the Student Union's trip. Perhaps all this In response to complaintsoftransportation, bitterness stems from the fact that George I must state each student was given the option Raikos hurt his knee the scond day of skiing of finding his own transportation,.,TJW; was and was unable to take part in the remainder 
taken advantage ofby a few people. Bus prices 
ofthe trip. 

to Colorado were quoted at $125 per person Alyson M. Miller per 50 people. Holy Cross Hall .. Transportation was needed by only 25 S~l!-.. 
IIi 
..... '-.. -......... l
'. jl

"ielYP-~O~i~n~t_______________________________________________Fr_w_a~y_,M_a~y_4_,_I9_B_4__~P~~~e__7 
. 'I 

Loret Ruppe's stand on abortion policy 
The following is an excerpt from Loret Ruppe's testimony before the House of Representatives Foreign Affidrs Commit­tee on Feb. 8, 1984. Ruppe is director of the Peace Corps and will speak at the Notre Dame commencementceremonies onMay20. 
Loret Ruppe 
Guest column 
I appreciate the opportunity to clarify some of the irresponsible and inaccurate charges which have appeared in the press regarding the Peace Corps' policy on pregnancy. 
First ofall, I want to make it absolutely clear that, as an individual, I have been and con­tinue to be, an active opponent ofabortion on demand. I believe my record in the pro-life movement speaks for itself. 
However, my current position as the Direc­tor ofthe Peace Corps requires me to take an oath1to uphold the law. Therefore, I am not free l:o implement policy based on my per­sonal beliefs without regard to legal require­menfs. 
Consequently, since my appointment, I have directed my efforts toward achieving the administration's pro-life policies, but have been limited in my ability to do so by the re­quirements oflegislation and the decisions of the Supreme Court. 
When I became the Director of the Peace 
Corps, I found that I had inherited a policy under which, I was pleased to learn, the Peace Corps did not pay for abortion procedures. However, it did pay for the transportation and per diem to volunteers who wanted to return to the ·United States to have the procedure 
performed. 

Some counseling was provided, but no ef­fort was made to emphasize trainingfor medi­cal staff and volunteers which might help prevent unwanted pregnancy, or to insure that all volunteers were well informed of available alternatives to abortion. 
Finally, there was no established limit to the 
number of abortions a volunteer could have 
and still remain in service. 

Needless to say, I found this situation less than satisfactory from both a personal and ad­ministrative point of view. However, I realized very early on that any changes in the policy would have to conform to a complex of legislative and judicial mandates which have grown up in this area ofthe law. 
Therefore, in early 1981 I directed my General Counsel to provide me with a sum­mary ofthe legal bases for the existing policy, an examination of how Federal agencies which provide health care can handle the problem, and an analysis of the legal options open to me to change the policy so that it more closely related to the administration's goal and objectives. 
This analysis was not encouraging in that it 
indicated that current authorities appeared to 
require a continuation of the Peace Corps 
policy of paying for travel and per diem for 
volunteers seeking abortions. 

In an effort to satisfy myself that we 'Yere indeed required to continue this policy, I directed the General Counsel obtain an opinion from the Justice Department, as to whether our continuing payment of travel costs, violated the Congressional ban on pay­ment ofappropriated funds for abortions, and whether, ifit did not violate the ban, we were at liberty to discontinue the practice, or in­stitute other restrictions in this situation. 
I directed that this request for an opinion clearly indicate that my objective in askingfor guidance was to quote from the letter, "the well-known position of this administration regarding abortion, with which we want to comply." 
The response received, did not, in the view of my legal advisers, leave room for doubt. The payment of transportation costs did·not violate the Congressional ban. Further, failure to provide the transportation costs incident to the abortion procedure would constitute a violation of Pregnancy Discrimination Act 
(P.L. 95-555) unless the Peace Corps discon­tinued the praotice ·of medevacing other Volunteers suffering from other medical con­ditions requiring their return to the United States for treatment. 
Since we have full responsibility for any medical condition developed by volunteers while overseas, many of which require evacuation, I believe I had no choice under the law but to pay similar expenses for preg­nant volunteers returning the U.S. 
I was then faced with determining in what other ways I could modify the policy to reach my goal ofsubstantially reducing -hopefully eliminating -the incidence of unwanted preegnancies among the Peace G:lrps volun­teerpopulation. My answer, which I commun­icated to the field in a memorandum to all Country Directors and volunteers in family planning and sexual responsibility, and re­quested an upgrading of the counseling skills ofour medical staffin this area 
Second, I had the counseling of pregnant volunteers both in-country and in the United States redesigned to emphasize alternatives to abortions and the prevention of future preg­nancies. My medical staff is also interviewing these individuals to try and learn if there are correctible deficiencies in our present system which result in unwanted pregnancies. 
Finally, I determined that any volunteer requesting a second abortion during her tour of service with the Peace Corps was acting with such a degree of irresponsibility that automatic separation from the Peace Corps was warranted. 
I hope that I have now made my position 
clear. I am neither trying to promote abor­
tions among Peace Corps volunteers nor 
attempting to subvert the administration's 
pro-life position. The record shows, I have 
made every effort to reorient Peace Corps 
policy toward what I believe is a responsible 
and legal goal -the prevention of unwanted 
pregnancy. 
I am trying to do so under the legal con­straints, as outlined by the Department of Justice, in manner which does not infringe on the rights of individual volunteers or endan­ger their health and safety. 
LoretRuppe is the director ofthe Peace Corps and keynote speakerfor Notre Dame's 1984 Commencement. 

Let's play taps for ROTC at Catholic colleges 
The Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program is the result of a praiseworthy democratic impulse. A govern­ment which wisely feared the development of a military elite wisely decreed that many 
u 
Mi~hael Garvey 
'v 
Guest column 
potential officers in its armed forces be exposed to a liberal education. 
The benefits of this sort of wisdom are less than obvious (we now know that guards at Auschwitz listened to Mozart and had read the works ofGoethe), but all societal at­tempts to check the horror of war, even clumsy ones like ROTC and the proposed Peace Academy, deserve a measure of ap­plause. 
Nevertheless, ROTC is not an institution which fits easily into the mission of Catholic education and is certainly not an institution which should be uncritically accepted on a Catholic campus. 
The mission ofCatholic education, accord­ing to Pope john Paul II, a former professor at the Catholic univc::rsity in Lublin, is to con­struct "a community whose sincere commit­ment to scientific research goes together with a deep commitment to authentic Christian living." Catholics can't glide easily past those adjectives "sincere," "deep" and "authentic." 
Asincere commitment to research requires (at the very least) an honest look at Catholic tradition and teaching; a deep commitment to authentic Christian living, it could be argued, requires an unnervingly absolute pacifism. 
It requires, in any case, a wholehearted at­tempt to imitate the life of <heist, who managed to impress all four of the Gospel writers with his failure -even refusal -to allow the use of a sword against his ex­ecutioners. Those scriptural passages Oohn 18:11, Luke 22:49, Mark 14:47-50, Matthew 
26:51) are harsh and complex. Good men and women disagree on th~ teaching they contain. 
But the thing that recurs in Catholic teach­ing on the use of violence is simple: The church abhors bloodshed. 
Catholics can't glide easily past that teach­ing either. (Of course the church abhors bloodshed, they might say, but blood will al­ways be shed, and as long as there are nations, they'll need armies. 
Catholics seldom ask themselves if, per­haps, the church's abhorrence of bloodshed next to the customary bloodiness of nations does not present them with a radical and un­comfortable choice.) 
The church abhors bloodshed, and that ab­horrence is the basis oftheJust War doctrine, the vague but astonishingly restrictive set of criteria into which awar must "fit" before it can escape condemnation by the church. 
The presumption ofthejust War doctrine is against war, and traditional Catholic teaching places the burden of proof not on the person who refuses to take up arms, but on the person who wants to take up arms. It is not easy to understand how ROTC became accepted in institutions commissioned to advance tradi­tional Catholic teaching. 
The fact the ROTC bas been accepted by such institutions does not change that teach­ing and does not change the responsibilities of Catholic higher education. This is not to say that a Christian cannot be a soldier, not to say that pacifism is a prerequisite for salvation. 
It is, nevertheless, at least inconsistent and arguably dishonest for a Catholic university or college to claim that it abhors bloodshed while it includes war preparation in the cur­riculum. Ifa Catholic school were that sloppy in its presentation of church teaching on sex ... well, you can imagine. 
ROTC, for many Catholic university stu­dents, is the only affordable access to an education. That is a shame, in the fullest sense of the word. It would be much more consis­tent with Catholic tradition for a Gttholic col­lege to set up special scholarships specifically designed to offer such students an alternative to military entanglements. 
This would make Catholic higher education more costly and perhaps more controversial, and that would make greater sacrifices neces­sary, but sacrifice is what the church is all about, and the church's first task is not to preserve the society by enhancing its armies but to transform the society by presenting it, even challenging it, with the person of Our Lord, who seems at least chary about the use ofweapons ifnot absolutely opposed. 
I said heseems to be chary. A glance around the contempory church indicates that some of our co-religionists are clearer on this issue than were the evangelists and the first Chris­tians. In El Salvador, for instance, Bishop jose Eduardo Alvarez ofSan Miguel enjoys the rank ofcolonel in an army which has received little acclaim for its defense ofthe innocent. 
In Nicaragua, priests in a military govern­ment defertd the infliction of violence on recalcitrant · Miskito Int:ians as regrettably necessary for the advanc,~ment of the San­dinist revolution. 
· Elsewhere in Latin America, a resurrected just War doctrine is employed by proponents of guerilla wars of national liberation. In this country the debate between pacifists and militarists extends even to the conference of bishops. It is not easy to understand how all of these peop_le can be right. 
But a Ca'tholic college or university which 
accepts an ROTC program at least implies that 
the case is closed, that the mission of the church and the training of armies (our armies . . . Britain's and Argentina's, for in­stance; both include large numbers of Cat­holics) cannot be contradictory. 
A community "with a deep commitment to authentic Christian living" is a community called to imitate Christ and should reflect a little more of Christ's ambivalance towards the use ofswords. Secularcolleges and univer­sities have no such responsibility. Let ROTC flourish in them as long as the taxpayers per-" mit. 
But Catholic and Christian institutions serve sterner constituencies, and among those looms large the figure of One who has already conquered the world without those legions of angels his Father would, if asked, deploy (Matthew 26:5 3 ). 
It is easy to understand how people who happen to be soldiers may serve Christ. Their lives are recorded in Catholic tradition. (Interestingly, most of them witnessed by laying down their arms.) What is less easy to understand is how a Catholic university or college serves Christ by including in its course ofstudy the science ofbloodletting. 
I have wondered lately if the Catholic Ar­gentines and the Catholic Britons who killed each other in the South Atlantic were products of ROTC program equivalents. To their respective armies, their religion means little if anything. Of the universities and col­leges which might have graduated them the same could be said. 
Reprinted from the March 1983 issue of 
U.S. Catholic, with permission of Claretian Publications, 221 West Madison Street, Chicago Ill., 60606. Michael Garvey is an as­sistant director at Notre Dame Information Services. 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor........ Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Ma.ry's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams 
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries,1~Her-S'!ind·'tmr·lnside Column Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966 I 

community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy I is encouraged. Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 
I I I

...., 
I I I I 

Showcase 
Friday, May 4, 1984 -page 8 

Letters to a lonely God 
The 'tough love' of .Paternalisnt 

•MOVIES 
The Student Activities Board will present the film "The Big Chill" 
tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Quoted 
as "the good feelingffim of 1983," "Chill" features several hits ofthe 
I960s. Admission will be SI.50. 
Tonight at 7:30, the Friday Night Film Series presents the I983 
film "Zelig" in the Annenburg Auditorium. In this his "latest and 
most brilliant film," Woody Allen has cast himselfas a human 
chameleon whose desire for social acceptance is so great that he 
literally becomes the same as those with whom he associates. 
"Zelig" blends documentary footage with staged action in order to 
blur the distinction between fiction and reality, thus creating an 
ironically historical fiction through which most of the events of the 
20th century come to pass. Admission will be S2. 50. •MUSIC Tonight the Notre Dame Progressive Musik Club will sponsor a "Fill in Your Social Gap" dance in the Chautauqua ballroom from 9 to 
2. One hundred posters and records will be given away at the dance. Admission is $ I. 
Tomorrow at 4 in the Annenberg Audtorium, Nancy Riegel will perform a Graduate Piano Recital. •MASS 
The celebrants for the Masses at Sacred Heart Church this 
weekend will be: 
FatherJames Burtchaell at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil) 
Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. 
Father Richard McBrien at 10:30 
Father Stephen Gibson at 12: I 5 
•MISCELLANEOUS For all those interested in supporting the Mondale campaign, a bus will leave the Main Circle at 10 a.m. Sunday to campaign in South Bend until 2. 

The cast of'Godspel/' 

by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 
I 
get nervous with authority 
figures, a sign that I had a very 
strict father. He died when I was a 
collegefreshman, at a time when we 
weren't talking much, because we 
disagreed on religion. In becoming a 
Catholic, I hurt him badly. He was a 
good father who deserved more 
from me than defiance. Joining the 
Holy Cross order, I found I had 
futhers in Christ. Religious authority 
often comes, like a deputy deity, in a 
father's shape. The great blessing of 
my ordained life waslearning to love 
my futhers more than I feared them. 
Now that I am old enough myself, I 
feel embarrassed to be treated as a 
futher figure, though I am pleased 
when students treat me with affec­
tion and respect. 
Nature has no law prohibiting 
children from being smarter than 
their elders. My father gave me an 
example to follow: though he would 
have died to make me happy, he 
wouldn't consent to my making a 
mistake. It's tough to love a child, if 
love means you have to stick by your 
guns as a way of protecting a fool 
from his folly. It turned out all right,. 
because I was lucky. My dad 
wouldn't have been so opposed, if 
he hadn't thought I was hurting 
myself. Who could begrudge him a 
love so paternal? A man pays a price 
in suffering for being so paternal. 
Love clings like the ivy to the walls ofthis place. Caring becomes part ofone's lifestyle. On this campus, over which the Dome spreads like an umbrella, you are judged, ifyou work here, by the quality of your commitment to the students. Some seniors, graduating in anger, never forgive Notre Dame. Others, years later, arc still thinking it over. I hear daily conversations full ofpassionate caring. Yet, ad­ministrators are denounced as though they were different from other Christians capable oflove. 
Notre Dame has come through a rough winter. Everyone Is tired, and it's time for the school year to end, before our tempers and anger flare any higher. Something wonderful happens on this campus: young people living here go through a remarkable period ofgrowth and 
development. Wherever they were when they came as freshmen -in late childhood or adolescence or burgeoning adulthood -by the time they leave they are grownups, free as birds to begin their ad­ventures in the real world. In becoming proteges ofthe real world, they are giving up as much as they are getting, ifthey only knew it. Yet it would be a sin to clip young wings, to keep birds grounded. Here would be an offensive needing for­givcnness. 
In the argument ofpaternalism versus freedom, I'm a traditionalist in favor ofgiving inexperienced virtue the support ofauthority. Per­sons like me, who make a career of parenting, have an instinct for cau­tion that makes them protective, brought on by watching young people careless with the gifts oflife. In the division oflabor between the young and the old, senior persons make the rules, and junior persons, doing their own thing, ignore the rules they don't like. Everyone does what is expected ofhim in this im­perfect universe. Neither the rule makers nor the rule breakers have God entirely on their side. There is no such place as the infallible side of an argument. 
This is a confrontational age. There have been a thousand dress rehearsals for the spring festivals that begin with shouts from a dorm window at midnight, followed by a thousand lads rushing the quads, shouting for blood; and ending at high noon, with speeches lecturing Father Hesburgh on the steps ofthe Administration Building. It would feel like I'm talking down to you to suggest that you have a good time, and be careful ofyourself and the property, because things get broken, and students bleed. Nothing attracts attention more than a crowd making the same kinds ofnoises. I offer no criticism ofcrowd behavior when exacerbated students bring their grievance publicly to the seat of power. 
In every relationship, the par­ticipants deserve a cooling off period, a time for thinking things over. Congress takes a break, and the lawmakers go home to talk with the voters. Generals retire from·tne 
army, and write their memoirs, 
wiser offthe battlefield than they 
were in any war. The Lord God Him­
self, fmishing creation, felt entitled 
to a holiday. Maybe, like a coach on 
Monday morning reviewing the 
situation, He revised the game plan. 
If, in the time spent by yourself this 
summer, considering the semester, 
you overlook the caring for you that 
goeson here at Notre Dame, you are 
still very youngto be exposed to the 
indifference ofthe real world, which 
never makes a commitment to love 
anybody. Some miracle oflove has 
happened at Notre Dame, piling 
stone upon stone, making the place 
possible. The bloodofsaints and sin­
ners who gave their lives in service 
are in these bricks. The love, sweat, 
and tears ofworking people, whose 
names are known mostly to God, 
have redeemed the green acre of 
this Emerald City. 
In totalitarian systems, Big 
Brother watches dissenters with 
hate. In empires and fiefdoms, 
where there are masters and slaves, 
the name ofthe game is power. You 
can tell that you're in the real world 
when you see dog eating dog. Pater­
nalism is the fault ofa gentler king of 
establishment subject to the insights 
ofgrace. Paternalism has become a 
dirty word on this campus. I say, 
three cheers for paternalism! 
I hope the real world is good to 
you. It never did me any harm, but 
St. Paul in the Epistles never speaks 
well ofit. Ifit hurts you, you can al­
ways get together with a thousand · others as injured as yourself, run 
through the strets shouting slogans, 
hang sheets covered with protests 
out your windows, and hold a public 
rally telling offits leaders. Perhaps 
you will be patient with the real 
world, forgiving its fuults, though 
you realize it offers you no hiding 
places. 
An older generation gets part ofits 
identity from trying to help you 
realize your potential for greatness. 
However limited you think their vi­
sion is, keep in mind that they wish 
you well. Have a happy summer. 
Darby O'Gill II and I never said we 
didn't love you. After the middle of 
June, I will be at St.Joseph's Church, 
371 Sixth Avenue in Manhattan's 
Greenwich Village. Rectory phone: 
212-741-1274;personalphone: 
212-924-2110. I invite you to call or 
vlsiL 
Energy of 'Godspell' gives old story new life 
by Mary Feider 
features stqfl writer 
I 
went to "Godspell" expecting to see a 1960'srendition ofa modem musical. What I saw was a contem­porary experience. The familiar musical became spontaneous and refreshing under the direction of Betsy Quinn. 
As part ofan ensemble often characters, innocent and unassum­ing Bill Boraczek Oesus Christ) coaxed to the stage the Gospel according to St. Matthew through musical parables and improvisation­al vignettes. Throughout most ofthe show the energy generated by the ensemble was reflected in the audience response. 
Incorporated on the stage was a five-piece band whose music kept the atmosphere upbeat and the production Bowing. Under the choreography ofBetsy Quinn and Ann Mariejanero the ensemble was strong and exciting in their dance. 
Though the music throughout the show was captivating and alive, the ensemble's energy level during the first few numbers was not as high as in the rest ofthe performance. The initial Jackofenc:rxywas quicklyfor­FUm by rhe reapliYe aldknce. 
:nwlbow...,..cnrcnaJIYc·¥ilually,
'· .. 
The construction ofa colorful and movable set added spacial variety and enhanced the musical move­
ment on a sometimes overbearing 
O'Laughlin stage. Brightly colored wooden blocks, cut like pieces ofa puzzle, were moved about with ease by the ensemble costumed In egual­
ly vibrant colors, although a clearer 
distinction between each in­dividual's costuming would have created more variety among a cast with much dimension. 
Maintaining an upbeat through­out the show, the ensemble kept the audience response changing as the mood swung from dramatic to humorous. The contemporary inter­pretation ofthe Gospel stories showed insight and creativity. The actors used present day language and humor to tell astory written two thousand years ago. Although this could be awkward, it was received 
focmance. The color and energy on the stagecreatesa visual excitement seldom seen in O'Laughlin. Godspell Is definitely an experience well worth witnessing. 
Godspell is showingat O'Laughlin Hall May 4,5, 17 and 18 at 8 p.m. Tickets are SI and are sold at the door only. 


extraordinarily well. Even the · dramatic crucifixion at the conclu_.···~1 sion was paced well through the · • ,... mo&m musical interpretation. ~ 
ThrouJbout the show there is an evident intuition in each actor's characterization, which synthesizes io-&bceoecmblc..crcadll&a.IOiai.P.Ct:.•_,........................l'llol•..,., •• ~""-'-·.,..,., ro,-o" 


F,lfk Glll:lriN (Jolultlw &lptist) witlr Sf~..si»r' M~iirUilsiilitil "tmtl~. ­
The Observer Friday, :May-4; -1984-page 9 
Tomorrow afternoon 
Spring Sale Mardi Gras T -Shirts Student Gov't 
Lafortune Second 10 a.m.-4 p.m. floor 
Only $1 

Full field for Kentucky Derby 
Associated Press With 20 starters, the purse will be Swale while Taylor's Special is next $712,400, with S537,400 to the at 7-2. Until Tuesday, Swale was ex­
LOUISVILLE, Ky. Trainer winner. The old records were pected to be part of a Woody Wayne Lukas will play a pair of $550,100 and S428,850 in 1982. Stephens-trained entry that probab­queens -the ftllies Althea and Life's This year it cost $10,000 to enter ly would have been favored. But Magic -in a full-house field for and $10,000 to start, twice as much Stephens said he would not start tomorrow's Kentucky Derby. it cost last year in either categories. Devil's Bag because the 1983 2-year­
For the second straight year the There have been 32 ftllies in pre­old champion, who has been syndi­classic one-and-one-fourth mile race vious Derbys, and two have won -cated for $36 million, had not shown drew its starting limit when 20 3-Regret in 1915 and Genuine Risk in that he could win at one-and-one­year-olds were entered yesterday. 1980. .fourth miles. 
Actually, 21 horses were entered, Althea beat colts in two of three Devil's Bag would have been rid­but Groom's Image was bumped by meetings in 1983 and again in a den by Eddie Maple. But now Maple the rule restricting the field to the spectacular performance in the will be on longshot At The Thres­op 20 money-winners. Arkansas Derby on April 21. Life's hold, while his brother, Sam, will 
Althea and Life's Magic entry was M'agic finished fifth against colts in ride contender Taylor's Special. made the early 5-2 favorite for what the Santa Anita Derby. Althea and Life's Magic under­will be the richest of 1 1 0 Derbys. The second early choice at 3-1 is score the strong female presence in 
the race, to start at 5:38 p.m. EDT. ABC will televise the event from 
4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. Patti Cooksey, who will ride betting outsider So Vague, will become the second woman jockey in Derby history. The other was Dianne Crump, who finished 15th on Fathom in 1970. 
Milwaukee defeats New Jersey 
Associated Press 
EAST 'RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Sid­ney Moncrief scored 27 points and Marques johnson added 19 as the Milwaukee Bucks defeated the New jersey Nets, 100-93, last night to

TRUCK LEASING, INC. 
take a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven

710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 
Eastern Conference semifinal series (219) 232-5871 
c 
of the National Basketball Associa­tion playoffs. Alton Lister added 12 points, and 
Mike Dunleavy and Junior Bridgeman 1 0 each for Milwaukee,

0 .HERTZ 
which sank 19-of-26 foul shots in the fourth quarter. The victory over­

N .P_ENSKE 
shadowed Darryl Dawkins' 31

G points for NewJersey. Otis Birdsong 
added 20 for the Nets. The Bucks went on a 10-1 tear to increase their 10-point halftime lead 

ON~ 
A R JBUCKS 
T 
to 65-48 with 4:58 left in the third quarter. It was the first of four 17­
point leads in the quarter. 

• I -J.. 
After Bridgeman's two free

u Special Discounts for N~o. and SMC Students 
throws ·gave Milwaukee its final 17­

Must book 7-10 days in advance 
point lead at 71-54, NewJersey out­

L $100 DEPOSITREQUIRED 
scored the Bucks 10-1 over the final 

A 
2:01 of the third quarter. Birdsong 
opened the fourth quarter with a baseline jumper, as the Nets cut the

TIONS CLASS OF '84 
deficit to 72-66. 
But Milwaukee retaliated with a 10-2 binge to go ahead 82-68 on Moncriefs layup with 7:27 to play. The Bucks kept the Nets at bay the remainder of the game.

\ 

The Nets cut the deficit to 89-80
~-, 
with 3:15 to play, but Moncrief hit 
~ 

two technical foul shots after the \ Nets were penalized for an illegal defense and an outburst by New jer­sey coach Stan Albeck. The Bucks opened a 51-41 led at 
-~ 
\ 
intermission. 
Rut 
continuedjrompage 12 
run. Conlin came in to strike out

MAY--6.·4.-S~ f(fl8 
Bronco Jim Davis to bring the game 
to a close. "That was probably the best col­lege game I've pitched," said 

O'·LA(JGJ---+LIN 
.B:aiPM:·:$r~ f4'1~ 
Clementz ofhis strongperformance. 
The senior pitcher lifted his record to 4-5 with the victory. Metzler led the Irish with a double

£~}~~JOUN-MIGUAEL 1EmAK ;:t;StEPJN ~~Ill 
and a single, while Moran chipped in with two base hits. Notre Dame is now 20-21, and

EitMllS;~~ DWr~~~­
will'try to climb over the mystical
...~· ·' 
.500 mark when it plays four games this weekend. The Irish will face Huntington in a doubleheader Satur­day at Jake Kline Field On Sunday, the team will travel to Lewis College 
for another twinbiiL 
,._s..:.:.;..•.. ~_;\~~~•~ !.t~"f\'»~ ~~.... r: ;:_,..._\ \ ·t'4.._ ·.-·.A•.-:..'. .,_._......,J, 


-----;;.·;.•,;,•.;•.;•;,•;;.;,•.;•.;.;;.;.,;,.;.;.;.e.~.-·.;.;~-.......... .,, 10 I',-.4,. 10 • • a a II a I
_________________________________________________ .1' tl' _• • • f/1 .. a I II 6 
Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­

Classifieds on 
ters r da 

TWO BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE Howard Hall To the kindly person(s) sending me roses OCEAN CITY live and play under the Jer­APARTMENT FOR RENT OVER THE Shorta and Sh8Ma wHh cryptic messages: PLEASE IDEN­sey sun. Call Tom at t20t
NOTICES FOR SALE SUMMER. Wrthin walking distance of Saturday TIFY YOURSELF. I am flustered (and oampus, price Is 250/month w/o utiiHies Be there! very flattered) ... but is NEGOTIABLE. II AT ALL interested MACRI'SDEU
BARGAIN: ENGAGEMENT AND WED­WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. 
please call283-1479. Want to live O.C. next year? Need 1 DAVID CLARK-MAKE MY DAYI The dell's meat RESUMES. 272-eiZ7. IJNG RING FOR SALE Contact Garry 
male roommate for Campus View. Call wasnolbeat.
Rush, 239-7735 Bob 1489 or Joe 1553. STOP THIEF-I'm NOT dead yeti Put me Champs tor the second year In a row. 
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 back where I belong. The Clock FOR SALE: Stereo. Price negotiable. 
WANTED 
CATCH Jennlfw "P.C." Sclull~ live on EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. 
Call Vince at 283-3129 stage this weekend in the computer lab. KATHY WATRY IS 201 CALL HER AND THESES, TERM PAPERS, ETC. CALL Shows at 9:30 and 11 p.m. Ask him to do WISH HER A "HAPPY DAY" AT 4366. 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. FOR SALE: 2 COUCHES, BAR STOOL. PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A his famed "Program Break Dance," and LOVE, KJ. SB. MM. 
£~~~~~jE~~i:~~:i~~

RUG. BAR(REAL CHEAP!) EVERY­PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL 
be sure to tip In the traditional manner. .......................
THING MUST 001 SOLD TO THE HIG­you need. Earn some money and~·eet
GET TOP$$$ FOR YOUR TEXTSIll AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR Hey, Jennifer. Is that your ribbon??? INTERESTED IN A LmLE LATENIGHT some strange and Interesting peo byBuy Back Paperbacl<s: Monarch and Cliff HEST BIDDER, OR FIRST COME FIRST OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239­
AClMTY? 
becoming a Day Editor. II you' in-Join The Observer Production Depart­Notes SERVED! CALL JEFF AT 88S4 NOW! 53130R277-4851. 

terested. call Tom Mowle at 239-5300 in Moo thru Fri. 1-4 p.m. 

SENIORS I SENIORS I SENIORS I menU This week we are accepting ap­the afternoon. 
PANDORA'SBOOKS937S.BENDAVE. WATERBED a "king size" necess~y for GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. 
Express your final thoughts with an Ob­plications tor nighttime layout stall O.C. $100 or best 234-9205 CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 or 277-4851. 
server personal. We will publish one final members. Don't miss this opportunijy to SENIORSI Commencement issue on Friday. May gain valuable layout skills and have fun 1977 Fiat Spyder conv. Must sell. Call GOVERNMENT JOBS. $1&,5511 • 
Bruce Sprlngat..n will not be at com­It's last testament time. Tlike out an 01>­287-7762 after 3. $50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your ansa. Call how you feel about NO, SMC, friends, believe, you say? To find out more about mencement. but I need more tickets 
18. Come up to the office and tell the world too. in only two hours a week. Hard to 
IJIIfllflr personal in the Commencemenl 1-BOS-687-6000. Ext. R-9834. rules. good times and bad, and all of the this limrted yet fantastic offer, stop by the anyway. Call Dave Dziedzic at 283-387t issue (Friday May 18) and let ·em have HI For SALE: REFRIGERATOR. works well, or 239-5303 If you want $$$tor yo..-tick­
things that have made your four years LaFortune office this week tor an applica­$20 call Gerry at 1604.
Come up to the office. 3rd noor 0 Ride Wanted to WESTCHESTER CO., here special. Office hours: Weekdays tion and more info. Or call Margaret at ets. LaFortune. and get yours today II NY leave Friday afternoon May 11. Call 
from 10 to 4 p.m. Charge is only 10 cents 239-5303.
For sale: raffle tickets--winner gets an all RAY1101 tor every 5 characters. This is your lastexpe"""s paid trip for an African SAFARI. 
shot I Oh, the humidity ... FOR SALE: ONE-MAN LOFT. COUCH.
Each ticket Is $1 . Call Gerry at 283-1604. Need ride to Indiana U. 5/4-5/6. Call Lisa .CHEAP I CALL 8086 
at284-5176. 
What ever happened to Dick Van Dyke? 

FOR SALE-2 COUCHES, 1 BAR ST. LOUIS CLUB 
SMALL SOW SANDWICHES DELIVERED FAST!
STOOL, RUG, BAR (REAL CHEAPI). Ride needed to New Orleans. Can leave SMALL SOW Fill In your social gap at the 111st chance to CALL THE YELLOW SUB AT 272-4453BAGGAGE TRUCK RRST COME RRST SERVED FOR THE anytime after May 12. Very little baggage 
Will pick-upon SATURDAY. MAY 12 SMALL SOW dance of the year. 100 FREE RECORDS BETWEEN 8& 11 pm MON-THUR 8&1pm
RIGHT PR1CE. CALL JEFF AT 1164 OR space needed. Call Cheryl284-4367. 
SMALL SOW AND POSTERS TO BE GIVEN AWAY. FRI-SATI
nMES: 
STOP BY 321 ST. ED'S. HURRY NOW 11 :30-t 2:30 at NO Bookstore 
SMALL SOW TONIGHT 9-2 CHAUTAUQUA BALL­
FOR THE BEST BUYS I Need a ride to Bo&ton after Flnala. Call 
How's H going Dave Horn? ROOM. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Stan at 1401 t 2:45-1 :45 at Stepan Center Progressive Music Club. This is your last chance lo meet those gor­
2:0CI-3:00 at LaMans perking lot 
Solabed tor sale-call x2129 Please have all of your belongings clearly 
Just when you thought you'd seen every­geous hunks. Drop by 150-151 Alumn1 SUMMER POUTICAL WORK thing, Fisher Hall and Section t B came up CONGRATULATIONS KERRY Hall now. 
marked. 
CITIZENS ACTION COALITION IS NOW wHh DAVE STEPHENfrCH tor, what else 'HAUENKAMP' AND GWEN HIRING THOSE INTERESTED IN but, MR. ASHER. Saturday night "The 'TADDANIO' FOR MAKING UMOCI WE Need a great team. club. organ1Zat1011.
GRASSROOTS EFFORTS FOR
TICKETS 
Canton Kid" will anempt to follow in the ARE SO PROUD OF YOUI BETTER etc. unifier?! Your slogan, or name, mono 
ECONOMIC JUSTICE AND ENVIRON­loot steps of one Billy Varner and win this LUCK NEXT YEARI LOVE THE FROSH or whatever you want can be impressed
PARTY MENTAL REFORM. CALL 232-7918 
highly coveted title. Be there, or be a FROM8B. forever on key chains, medallions buttons $$$ Need 2 commence. tix. Call Dan 287­
PARTY FOR INTERVIEW. $160& UP/WK. 
throat -like Dave. etc.l Order today or wrrte for more into:6273PARTY 
...... ................... Jan Baby What hllppened to the year? -Konrady Graphics Ltd . 
Saturday noght NEEDED: RIDER BOUND FOR MALE STRIPPERS Now that we have It -toofila R...,.mberthe Sunday P.O. Box 174 NEED GRAD TIX$$$ -1965 
9:30 SYRACUSE NY AREA, LIMITED SPACE your attention girls, we'd just like to tell night before tM lira! home foOtball Crown Point. ln. 46307 
Fisher Hall AVAILABLE DEPARTING FROM you that there will be more of the same at g.,...? lauN do encll•lwaye will. LoveHELPII NEED GRADUATION TICKETS CAMPUS APROX. 12 NOON ON MAY Fisher's party tomorrow night. The action you elweye kid, Rocket menSO BROTHER&2 SISTERS CAN COME 11. CALL 3537 
starts at about 9:30. •...................................... ...... ....... ..... . Girl will lype term paper at home. Small BEFORE GOING TO PRISON. CALL HAPPY HELP ME HELP ME HELP ME I'M
283-1204 MIKE. WILL PAY. MONEY IS CLEAN. JUNIORS, JUNIORS: RETURN COM­BIRTHDAY DROWNING I'M DROWNING I'M
fee. 255-7562. I NEED RIDE TO BOSTON. CAN LEAVE 
5/12 at 10PM. CALL BOB 1580 
PLETED PRORLE FORM TO CAREER TESS DROWNING I'M CRAZY I'M NUTS I'M BUFFALO CLUB BUFFALO CLUB 
Go out and have a cupcake -CONFUSED I'M LONELY rM IN LOVENeed grad tickel Big$$ Talk to me before AND PLACEMENT SERVICES, RM. you sell to anyone else Mike 7838 213, AD. BLDG. BY FRI., MAY 4BY 5:00

Beggage truck Tuea.MAY 8, Wed.May Aida offered to Mass. on May 13. Call 
CELEBRATE 9,Sun May 13 Posters and details all over Charles at 8094 P.M. From your gossip buddies! campus. Any Ouest1ons call Nick 8207 
But don't celebrate too much or we will dig BUFFALO CLU!BUFFALO CLUB I need a ride home to Utica or Syracuse
Desperately NEED TWO GRADUATION Do you have spring fever? Are studying 
up some dirt on you I (And it will end up in 

TIX lor family who's been waning 4 yrs. to SUMMER is almost here and soon you tor exams and writing papers dnving you

for summer. I can teave as early as S~tur· 
the personals on MondayI)day but would prefer to leave Monday,
see me graduate. Call NANCY at 1349. will be going home. Some of us are not so crazy? Do you need a chance to relax or 
fortunate. Some of us will be spending our have some tun before lhe dreaded finals May 14. Please call Brian 1165. 
~ LADIES: For only $1 you'll get--t20 come

Bruce SprtngMMfl will not be at com­summer in sunny South Bend. And as week? Well. to the Howard Hall 
rnmcement. but I still need tickets. that weren't reason enough to take prty on minutes of social ecstacy. a close up Shorts and Shades Party this Saturday anyway. Call Dave Dziedzic at 283-3671 me, a with which to glimpse of Michael (Tex) Jackson, All the 
LOST/FOUND 
WANTED: GRAD tickets, name your $, 
I don't have car from 9 to 2. It is an experience you won'tcall Gerry at 283-1604. 
Pre-prohibition punch you can drink, and 

or 239-5303 if you want $$$ tor your tick­escape the confines of this lair cHy. to take want to miss. 
FIELD more. FRIDAY. MAY 4. 4-6PM AT NO'S ets. Need a ride to Roch.lupstate NY. Can 
LOST-GREEN USMC/ARMY me to work, or even to go to the grocery 
JACKET-Dad has threatened my exist­store. Perhaps you have a car that you do TOWER OF MANHOOD (FLANNER).
leave Fri. 5111 P.M. or anytime after. Ter­
ence Ill can't l1nd ~-If found-PETE 3165. not want to bring home because it is too Come kiss the 1 party room on campus
NEED MANY GRADUATION TICKETS. LOOKING AT COMPUTERS? Before WILL PAY TOP$$$ PLEASE CALL 234-tar, too much trouble, etc. Or perhaps you goodbye. you try the Mac or Kaypro, check out the LOST: Ladies Gold Timex Quartz watch 03t9. would like to leave your car here because Morrow --same features as the Kaypro. 
ry 8725/8762. 

WANTED: t RIDER TO PHILA/SOUTH
with brown band at AnT ostal mudplts on this sad tale has moved you to tears. If JUNIOR CLASS MASS & PICNIC normal size screen, comparably priced.
JERSEY ON 5/12. CALL JEFF 88S4.
Sat. April 28. Please call Kathy at 8863. Sunday, May 6
WILL PAY BIG$$ FOR UP TO FOUR you do have a car that you want taken letter quality printer available. For info. GRAD TIX. CALL RICH AT 288-7446 care of for the summer by a very reliable call Mark 8693. 
Mass 4:00 at the Grotto FOUND: A BLUE AND GOLD NOTRE person, call Sarah at 1311. Please. Picnic on Holy Cross field following Mass 
Need a ride to MD/DC on 511 3 or later. Will only have 1 surtcase. call Megan 284­DAME BASEBALL CAP IN HAYS HEA­$$ NEED 4 GRAD TIX $$ LARRY 1638 
4238

LY. CALL MARK AT t987. BETH­
OR1601 AN EVENING OF ILLUSION WITH Well, I still haven't dropped by to see you. MAT-Wish we went to the same 9Chool. 
MAGICIANS MIKE WEBER AND GARY CHAIN AND INTRAMURAL MEDAL GOTTA HAVE GRAD. TIX. Need not be But I wilL And you'd better be home or EleanorNeed 1 rider to Md./DC on SAT. 5/12. 
O'BRIEN SUNDAY MAY 7 LIBRARYAndy,1020

LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL else. So there, nyaah. 
together. Call Tom/John 6146or 1761. AUDITORIUM AT 7 AND 9:30 COURTS. WILL THE PERSON WHO An extremely busy and not-so-secret ad­'OCEAN MAN" Too bad the ship sunk PROCEEDS GO TO RIGHT TO LIFE. BE 
ATTN: London bound JRS. Need a place
CALLED BEFORE EASTER BREAK mirerofsorts for tonight But do you know what today 
NEED ONLY 1 GRADUATION TICKET! THERE I 
to store stuff 1111 Jan. 857 We've got some
(DAN ?) PLEASE CALL AGAIN! ANN P.S. I think you're right about this Slime is? ... Come over to the Creek tonight lor a
WILL PAY $$$... 4305 space left. Share expenses Call now 234­
MARIE 2845087 OR PAUL 2720746. business. "SPECIAL" bonle of wine. Love ya0537. DAVE SENIORS...MINN/ST.PAUL T SNUGGLES, ME. 
WILL TRADE DOZENS OF YOUR SENIORS ... MINN/ST.PAUL H your
FOUND: burgundy umbrella. the collap­You ever notice how when a hungry dog 
FAVORITE COOKIE FOR ONLY 1 moving to the area and are looking to
NYCITY RIDE NEEDED! CITY GIRL
sible kind, belo<e Easter. To claim call sees something rt really wants, Hgoes af­D.C./MD. BAGGAGE TRUCK 
MEASEL Y GRADUATION TICKET. share an apartment call me now. MALE
NEEDS TO GET TO HER HOME
2914. ter H. salivating the whole way, until ngets
CALL TRESE AT 1727 IF YOU'RE OR FEMALE OK KEVIN (8950 or 8992)
TURF. PLEASE HELPIWILL SHARE EX­HUNGRY. 
what it wants and doesn't care what gets D.C./MD. BAGGAGE TRUCK PENSES.LEAVING MON.
LOST DURING HOLY WEEK A SMALL in rts way? Huh? You ever notice that? 
AFT.PAULA283-8115
LIGHT BROWN WALLET. CALL 2311-Huh? PRICES BASED ON $5/N.D. BOX 
IN SEARCH OF: Graduation tickets -­
1010. Mark8693 .......................................... (BIKES$15) NO,ITS NOT AGAINST UNIVERSITY TO: LORI C.-I'II see you in L.A. I KAREN POLICY TO HAVE ONE ... so why not buy LOST: SET OF KEYS ON KEY RING -One ticket n-for Graduation. Will PERSONALS and the JONSES-1 love you alii STEP­LOAD UP: my loft? I gotta sell it cuz It won't fit In my PROBABLY LOST DURING HANIE S.· VIsit Walsh often, that's an or­MAY 12 at BOOKSTORE 2-4 PM parents' Volkswagen. Call Terese x4404 
pay$$. Call Jill at 6293. THURSDAY N:NIC AT SAINT der! BARB G.-Take care of my roomie I at SMC (LEMANS) 4:30-5:30 PM 
MARY'S. TWO OF THE KEYS ARE NEED A PLACE TO STAY THIS SUM­TALL PAUL-Keep painting! JIM G. and MAY 13 at BOOKSTORE 11-3 PM 
Willing to pey $$$for GradU811on 11x. Call TO THE CREATORS OF S.W.I.B.: I Dave at 8167 or leave message wrth DON'T WANT IT BAD. I ONLY WANT IT 
MARKED 1124. PLEASE CALL JEFF MER? Need to sublet a two-bedroom PAUL O'C. You know how special you at SMC (LEMANS) 3:30-6:00 PM 
AT 7120 SOON. townhouse apartment wHhin walking dis­both are. MIKE, KIM and KRISTIN-I'm tance of campus. Price is $250/month glad it all worked out, good luck I JOHN 
return phone number at 239-7757. GOOD AND THArS THE WAY I GET ITI 
THAT EXPLAINS WHY NONE OF YOU 4124 wijhout (very IN­W.-Good luck with your future fish breed­BUFFALO CLUB SEE AD UNDER
LOST: TUES IN ROOM 1t9 JoSle needs graduation tickets! Will pay utilities negotiable). ARE GETTING IT FROM ME Jill 
O'SHAG. UMBRELLA. MED. BLUE TERESTED? Please call283-14791f at all ing! JIM S.-Thanks lor listening. H helped. NOTICE SECTION BUFFALO CLUB 
$$$call 78t9 or7813. WITH RUFFLE. REWARD. CALL KATHY interested. THE DINNER PARTY CROWD-We'll do rt 3429. HAVE A HEART. THANKS. again in '861 MIKE McD.-1'11 see you in Ca. HEY! need one ride to DC area. can leave
HELPI DESPERATELY NEED DON'T GET CAUGHT ON (perhaps at U.S. C. 7) ... 1 didn'tthink saying sunday am. call SCOTT 8209. FOR SALE -76 Ford Monarch Loves
GRADUATION TICKETS! call Heather at LOST: Wallet wnh all of my identification. CAMPUS ... DRY good-bye would be so difficult-I'll miss BEER 234-8248 
288-3511 If found please call Eileen at 277-1325. FOR SALE you all. Finally, to MAURA-Thank you lor DRYLANDIIIIII GREAT CAR EVERYTHING! Don't curt your lips. and NEED A STUDY BREAK? DOMINO'S LOST...ONE GREEN LOGIC DESIGN $175 don't cry. I'll see you in July "out west". DRY LAND are: PIZZA will be open at 1tam to 3am Mon­BOOK.. .WHOEVER ACCIDENTALLY great BIKE Have a great birthday! Love always. Paul Cimino day, May. 7 to Tuesday, May, 15. 30
FOR RENT 
PICKED UP OR BORROWED MY $70NEW MARY-JO JeiiYock minute service guaranteed CALL 277­LOGIC DESIGN BOOK FROM THE CALL 1866 MIKE Mark SChlppits 2151 to order SOUTH DINING HALL LOBBY ON GRADUATE STUDENTS· 4-BEDROOM DEAR MADAME WONDERFUL, JUST Mark Shepard TUESDAY MAY 1ST, PLEASE HAVE HOME, FULLY FURNISHED INCLUD­WANTED TO WISH YOU A HAPPY John McEachen THE HEART TO RETURN IT. I NEED IT ING UTIUllES FOR SUMMER Happy Birthday HALF-YEAR ANNIVERSARY. I WANT Saturday. the NAZ2 8:30-10111 SEX! SEXI SEXI NOW THAT I HAVE FOR FINALS. PLEASE RETURN TO MONTHS. $300/MO. HOUSE WILL Maura McK-rl YOU TO KNOW THAT NO ONE HAS YOUR ATTENTION. PLEASE HELP ME. SOUTH DINING HALL, LOST AND ALSO BE AVAILABLE FOR NEXT John and Phil CHANGED MY LIFE FOR THE BETTER :Loocal so~~'fare developmenl company I NEED AT LEAST ONE GRADUATION 
FOUND (ADMIN.) OR CALL 2t38 ..NO FALL :Z..31011. IN SUCH A SHORT TIME LIKE YOU oHers lull-time summer position to student TICKET. PLEASE CALL ME IF YOU CAN QUESTIONS. HAVE. YOU'RE A VERY SPECIAL GIRL experienced in Assembly language HELP. JACK 7982 AFTER 1 OPM 
Apartment for rent, summer months only. 1 need a ride to Om.,..lll will be ready to AND I LOVE YOU AN AWFUL LOT. programming for the IBM Personal Com­My 10 SPEED AZUKI CENTURY bicycle close lo campus. Please call Kathy at leave at noon on Saturday. May 12.11 you YOUR EVERLASTING BUDDY. LAMAR puter. Call Wilmes Systems at 234-7688 Applications for 111115 AnToatal Chair­was taken Tueaday--l'd like rt backll Any 5115 (SMC) or Laurie at 5150 (SMC) lor can help, please call John at 8208. P.S. I'M GONNA MISS YOU A LOT THIS during business hours. or call Jim Wilmes man are now available at the Student 
Info: call Carrie at 219~. Information. at 289-3896 eve~i~gs ~~ ~~k~~ Government offices In LaFortune.
........ ·... .~~"!"!Ef\ ~A.B~ •
•. .........: .... .~:. ~-~ :·.~ ~-~ ~;.. ~.":. ~-~~-":. ~:: ~..::.-: :.-::."!:.": :.": :..~ ~.": :.": .'.. 
Sports Briefs 
The Marketing Club GolfTourneywill be 
held today on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. Entrants will have a choice to play in the four-man bestball or four-man scramble. Prizes will be awarded in both divisions. A $2.50 green fee will be charged. For more information, call Don at 1684. -The Obseroer 
All returning students should have received a 
1984 football ticket application by today. Those who have not should come to the ACC ticket office by the end ofthe semester. ­
The Obseroer 
The Weightlifting Club will sponsor a bench press and squatting meet tomorrow, May 5, at 1 p.m. There will be men's and women's weight classes and medals will be awarded to first through third places in each class. The meet is open to everyone, including varsity athletes. Sign up at th~ Rockne weight room, or call Pat ( 8762) or Mark ( 1156). Fee is $2. -The Obseroer 
The first leg of the 9,000-mile Torch Relay will be run down New York City's First Avenue next Tuesday after the Olympic torch is relit during ceremonies at the United Nations Plaza, or­gan,lzers said yesterday. The flame is being transported to the United States by commercial airliner on Monday from Athens after sun­kindling ceremonies in Olympia, Greece, the birthplace of the an­cient Games. -AP 

Campus 

34 Fulvous 54-d'Orsay 37 Assembled 55 Body of 
•

The Daily Crossword 
38 Newt troops 41 Savings 56 Certain 42 Medieval hair-do 
court 57 "High-"
ACROSS 35 Sp.gold 66 Treasure -11 Heraldic 
circuits 58 Brilliant
36 Tainted term
1 Autocrat 67 Extinct 
47 Garden star 
5 Remainders 39 Actress birds 12 Social 
implement 59 Desert
10 Luna or Raines gatherings 
68 Smashes 50 Poise plant
40 Greatguy 13 Meatcecropia 
52 No·see·'ums 60 Tribe
14 Country 43 Burrow 21 Terror69 Sub detec­61 Orient
53 Pumpkin
44 Reliable 22 L.A. inst.
cousin? 
tor eater 62 LBJ's VP
15 "She­45 Charged 25 Future jrs. 
70 Crooked 

atomwreath of 26 Flynn of46 Clutteredroses" DOWN filmsforest16 Tract 
1 Harvest 17 Praise for space 
2 Bantu 27 Fr. excla· a toreador 
48 Cook's abbr. 
3 Support mation49 Grating

18 Enoch­
4 Summary 28 To the left,19 Cherrystone 51 -up 
5 Moves to nautically20 Challenging 
(dress) 
and fro 29 Nickname invitation 
53 Energy 
6 Bull: Sp. of William 23 Mothers 
54 Wild carrot 
7 Hindustani II of Eng.24 Comp. pt. 62 Suspended 
8 Beverage 30 Seize 25 "-Against 63 Stirring 9 Does a 32 Psycholo·Thebes" 64 Pot carpenter's gist Have· 28 Neighbor 65 Former 
job lock of Para. Secy. of 10 Sports 33 One-masted 
5/4/84
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc.

31 Comb State fish vessel All Rights Reserved 
!~ior 1\ar !  
1I  G~ .  Pre Finals Specials  1 l  
tI  Beer and Mixed Drink Specials All Night  tl  

----------------------, 
~

l---------------------~ 
"The feel-good movie of 1983:' 
Rn t1.1rd Curl''' H~\E" '\:\GAZINE 
TONIGHT AND 
How much love, sex, fun and 
TOMORROW NIGHT
friendship can a ~rson take? 
?' 
BIGCHILL 
7:00 9:00 11 :00 
In a cold world you need yourfriends 
A:tl l.:u....

lE~ to keep you~;;:~·-·-'"'~ i 
,;o~ 
lsooJ: 

Engineering Auditorium $1.50 
~.Todav____...............!.......!.............._.
~J-Friday, May , 198 -page 11 
Bloom County 

OH, 7HilT'S &ReFIT. A1YPICAU-Y COU? SC/flffiFIC Rf.SPON5£. YA KNOW, IT'S THAT Vef?Y 5AMt l-ACK Of SOl./~ WHICH flU-OW6 8RAINY 
1Yff,5 51/CH 115 YOI/RfE..f 10 GWJW IJP IINP C!?GI!Te SCff.NC£ WlfHOIJT 
~~~~eNCf..:!:_IKf.
THE. trmM 

\... "' 
& . ' 
'?il 
;-:;:~-\ ~"'""'''' "~\ . 
Mellish 
COULD WE HAVE 
A COUPLE MORE KAMIM11S, BllRTENDER? AND 50M£ 
PRETZELS?
I 


Guindon Richard Guindon 

"Be careful while you're In San Francisco. They got mimes everywhere." 
Berke Breathed 


&Dave 

WELL, ACfUI!ll~, 
SHf'S JUST 
A RABBIT.., 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

"Thank gooclneu you're here, Doctor! .. I came in this morning and found Billy just all scribbled like thisl" 
•12 
p.m. -Faculty Forum, "Some You Win, Some You Lose: Athletics at Notre Dame," Profs. Michael DiCicco and James Kohn, Ubrary Lounge 

•1 
p.m. -Lecture, "Suffering and Lecture," Diogenes Allen, CCE 

•2:15 
p.m.-SWC Session, "The Spiritual Life in the Presence ofTechnology: A Quest with Simone Well," Carol Mitcham, CCE 

•2:15 
p.m.-SWC Session, "The Concept of M­fliction: Simone Well and Soren Kierkegaard on the Problem ofReligious Suffering," David Wisdo, CCE 

•3:30 
p.m. -SWC Session, "The Spirituality of Science," H. L Finch, CCE 

•3:30 
p.m. -SWC Session, "Simone Wei! and Soren Kierkegaard," Martin Andie, CCE 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "The Big Chill," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.50 

•7 
and 9 p.m. -Film, "In the Name of Democracy," CSC Rm 124, Sponsored by SOLA, Free 

•8 
p.m. -ND/ SMC Theatre, "Godspell," 

O'Laughlin Auditorium, S1 Saturday, May 5 

•8:30 
a.m. -SWC Sessions, "The Ruthlessness of Grace in Simone Well and Flannery O'Connor," Ann Loades, and "Simone Weil and Hitler: The In­dividual and the Collectivity," Larry jones, Both at theCCE 

•9:30 
a.m. -SWC Sessions, "The Dualistic Philosophy of Simone Well and Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment," Katherine Brueck, and "Attente de Dieu: Interpretation," John Dunaway Both at the CCE 

•10 
a.m. -Outdoor Track, Midwest Catholic Championships, ND Track Behind the ACC 

•1I 
a.m.-SWC Sessions, "The Love of God and Man's Suffering: Simone Wei! and George Bemanos," William Bush, and "Simone Wei! and Mysticism," Catharina Stenqirst, Both at the CCE 

•I 
p.m. -Baseball, ND vs Huntington College, Jake Kline Field 

•I 
p.m. -SWC Lecture, "The Baptism ofSimone Well," Eric Springsted, CCE 

•2 
p.m. -SWC Lecture, "Simone Well and Roman Catholicism," Ellen Weaver, CCE 

•3:I5 
p.m. -SWC Lecture, "Simone Weil and Feminine Spirituality," Jeffrey Eaton, CCE 

•4:
I5 p.m. -SWC Lecture, "Simone Weiland Per­sonalism," John Hellman, CCE 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Green, Green Grass of Home," Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by Chinese As­sociation 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "The Big Chill," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $I.50 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "Godspell," O'Laughlin Auditorium, $1 


Sunday, May 6 
•II 
a.m. -Spanish Mass, Farley Hall Chapel, 

•8 
p.m. -Recital, Andrez Dutiewicz, pianist, Little Theatre, 



I i ~:­
~ 
;~. 
-~ ,! ~~ 
.'1' 
.t 
I 
.
.,I Irish lacrosse team meets MSU still having· shot at MLA crown 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame lacrosse coach Rich O'Leary traveled to East Lan· sing. Mich., on Wednesday to scout a game between Michigan State and Ohio Wesleyan, he expected to get a good picture of the Spartans ­Notre Dame's opponent tomorrow -as they were being dominated by conference leader Ohio Wesleyan. 
O'Leary did get a good look at Michigan State, but he also received a pleasant surprise when the Spar­tans pulled off a big upset, beating Wesleyan, 7-6, and putting Notre Dame in an excellent position to emerge as Midwest Lacrosse As­sociation champion. 
The Michigan State win left Notre Dame, Denison, and Ohio Wesleyan with identical 7-1 marks in the con­krence. A Notre Dame victory over the Spartans would clinch the Irish a tie for first place. In the case of a tie, the decision about who is champion would be left to a three-man com­mittee. 
Assuming Notre Dame continues its winning ways tomorrow, the· decision could well rest on the outcome of tomorrow's Dt.-nison­Ohio Wesleyan game. The Irish lost to Wesleyan, 12-5, early in the sea'iOn, but defeated Denison, 12-11, last week. A Denison win tomorrow would knock Wesleyan out of the picture, helping Notre Dame's <·hances immensely. 
"I would guess that, if Denison 

beats Wesleyan, Wesleyan would be 
out of the picture because they'll 
have two losses," explains O'Leary. 
"After all, almost every champion­
ship in the country is decided on the 
win-loss record. 
"I also think that if it was a two­way tie and it came down to head-to­head competition, whoever won the game would win the championship. So, if it came down to Denison and us, I would think that we'd win it." 
All ofthis hinges on wins by Notre Dame and Denison, of course, but because both teams have the home­field advantage, the scenario is quite probable, especially this season when the home team has won nearly every big MLA game. 
"Because the teams in the con­

ference are becoming more equal, 
it's always an advantage being at 
home," says O'Leary. "There are bet­
ter teams in the league now, and 
more teams are capable of beating 
the top teams, so the home field is 
becoming even more important." 
The Irish players are understan­dably excited about their chances, but they first have to get past the much-improved Spartans. 
"Michigan State is a very physical, very aggressive team," says O'Leary. "They're definitely better than they were last year. They just challenged Ohio Wesleyan all the time. They're pretty strong at attack -especially one guy who's very talented -and 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team, still holding a shot at the crown, the Irish must beat the Spartans and at the Midwest Lacrosse Association title, faces Michi­Denison must defeat Ohio Wesleyan Mike Sullivan gan State tomoTTOw on Cartier Field. To have a chance details the situation at left. 
they were able to control the ball a lot." 
Notre Dame will be looking to control the tempo just as it has done in every game of its six-game win streak. In nearly every game, the Irish were able to jump out to a large, early lead, and then hold off the opponent in the second halfwith a tough defense. O'Leary does not 

The Notre Dame track team returns home this 
Track team at home 
It has been a long time since the Notre Dame track team la~t com­peted on its home track -March 31 to be exact -but, this weekend,Joe Plane's Irish will return to the Monogram Track to play host to the Midwest Catholic Championships. 
The competition features teams from Catholic colleges in the Mid­west like DePaul, Loyola, and Marquette. Notre Dame, which goes into the meet as the favorite, expects the toughest competition to come from DePaul, whose strength is in the sprints, and Marquette, which boasts some good distance runners. 
Plane plans to use some ofthe runners who have not competed in recent weeks while the team travelled to meets in Iowa, Tennessee, and Illinois. However, he also hopes to allow some ofhis better nm­ners to compete in races they normally do not run. 
The meet also gives the Irish runners one more chance to qualify for the prestgious IC4A Outdoor Championships. Last week at the Drake Relays, three Notre Dame runners qualified: Mark Wozniak in the 10,000 meters,JeffVanWie in the 800-meter run, and jim Tyler in the I500 meters. 
Isles top Canadiens, take 3-2 series lead 

Splits with Western Michigan 
Baseball team remains in a rut 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN when Mike Metzler's infield single to victory. Sports Writer drove in jackie Moran. In the fourth, The game was scoreless until the Steve Passinault drove in David third inning, when Metzler doubled 
The Notre Dame baseball team Clark with the tying run. to bring in catcher Brian Gibbons just can't seem to get out ofthe rut of But Western Michigan came back with the game's first run. Carl Vuono playing .500 baseball. in the bottom ofthe inning with an­made it 2-0 in the fifth by driving in 
On Tuesday, the Irish traveled to other run off Lopes. The Broncos Gibbons again_ Kalamazoo to take on Western Mich· added an insurance run in the A single by Moran drove in igan University in a doubleheader. seventh, as Abe Walker doubled off Metzler in the seventh for one run, As has been the story as of late, the Irish reliever Tom Conlin to drive in and Vuono came in from third base Irish split with the Broncos, losing Markert. on a sqeeze bunt by Ken Soos to the first by a score of 4-2, while The Irish could only collect five make the score 4-0. taking the nightcap, 4-1. hits with none going for extra bases. But it was hurler Clementz who 
In the first contest, the Broncos Lopes took the loss, dropping his was the highlight. Through the first quickly jumped out to a 2-0 lead in record to 4-4. six innings he only allowed the the first inning on a two-run single The second game of the twinbill Broncos one single. He retired the by designated hitter Jim Markert off was a totally different story for the first two batters in the seventh, but a Irish starter Buster Lopes. Irish. The offense came alive for single and three walks brought in a 
Notre Dame tried to claw its way eleven hits, while Mark Clementz 
see RUT, page 9
~ack in the second, scoring a run pitched two-hit ball to lead the team expect the game plan to be altered much tomorrow. 
"We're not going to change much," he says. "They're very ag­gressive, but a'> long as we don't panic like I think Ohio Wesleyan did, then we should be fine." 
The Irish will face off with the Spartans at I :30 p.m. on Cartier Field. If Notre Dame does win, O'Leary and his players will have to wait until at least Sunday to hear about the committee's decision. 
Even ifthey are named MLA cham­pions, however, the season will end on Saturday. There will be no post­season tournament for the Irish. Still, not many people will be complain­ing ifthey win the title. 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL -Bryan Trottier's power-play goal and Brent Sutter's shorthanded score in the first period carried the four-time National Hock­ey League champion New York Is­landers within a victory of the Stanley Cup finals last night with a 3-1 decision over the Montreal Canadiens. 
The Islanders. who were man­handled here in the first two games ofthe best-of-seven Prince of Wales Conference final, used a staunch defense and the goaltending of Billy Smith to grab a 3-2lead in the series. Ifthey win at home tomorrow night, they will advance to the champion· ship round against the Edmonton Oilers, who New York swept in last year's finals. 
The opportunistic Islanders took advantage of their only first-period power play when Trottier banged in a rebound of his own shot. Defen­seman TomasJonsson broke into the Montreal zone and fed Trottier, whose deflection wa'> stopped by Montreal goalie Steve Penney. The puck fell directly in front of Penney and Trottier lifted it into the net at 3:55. 
The Islanders' penalty killing was perfect in the flrst period, stopping four Montreal power plays. And, on the second of those power plays, Sutter broke out of his zone, moved around the Canadiens' Steve Shutt and sent a wrist shot past Penney's stick at 9:36. 
A sloppy second period featured just four shots on goal for each team and just one good scoring oppor­tunity. Montreal's Mark Hunter slipped a wrist shot past Smith, but it bounced off the goal post and harm­lessly away from the net. 
The victory was just the second in the Montreal Forum for the Islan­ders in nine playoff games. 


