Boxing page4 

VOL XVIII, NO. 112 the inJeperHknt ~tudent new~paper ~l·n ing notn dame and ~a ill! nran ·~ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 1984 

McGovern exits as Hart and Mondale split primary wins 
Associated Press 
Gary Hart won presidential primaries in Florida, Massachusetts and Rhode Island Yesterday. Walter Mondale countered with his first primary victories of the season in Alabama and Georgia. and said, "I've come back into the race" for the 
Democratic  presidential  nomina­ 
tion.  
Hart  said  the  Super  Tuesday  

outcome was a victory for his can­didacy and the American people. He said the voters had declared again, as in the four states he had won before, that, "The politics ofthe past will not address the problems of the 1980s. 
"With your help, we'll go on toIl­linois, on to New York, on to San Francisco and on to the White House," he told cheering suppor­ters. 
Four states held caucuses, and in Oklahoma -the only state report­ing-Hart was ahead. With 19 per­cent of the precincts counted, he had 42 percent to 34 for Mondale, and CBS said he would win. 
While Mondale won narrowly in the Georgia primary, Hart was gaining more delegates there. And in Florida, delegates frrst pledged to former Gov. Reubin Askew, now withdrawn, were a strong majority. Hart urged their election, hoping they would move into his camp. 
Sen. John Glenn, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and former Sen. George McGovern looked in vain for a surprise to boost them into conten­tion. Glenn was running third in Alabama and Florida, fourth in Geor­gia and Massachusetts. 
An aide said it would be Wednes­day at the earliest before the Ohio senator decided on the future of his debt-ridden campaign. 
McGovern, who had said he'd quit the race unless he finished at least second in Massachusetts, said last night he intends to withdraw from the race for the Democratic presidential nomination because of his third-place showing there. 
Jackson edged to the 20 percent level with his third place standing in Georgia. The percentage was crucial to him -the 20 percent level would preserve his entitlement for federal matching campaign funds. 
While returns on Super Tuesday, with 511 delegates at stake, showed Hart the strongest candidate in the biggest states, Mondale went before cheering supporters in Washington and called the outcome a turning point: 
"A month ago this was a bandwagon. Tonight it's a crusade. It's going to be a marathon all the way to California," where Democats convene in San Francisco for their national convention. 
Despite Hart's three victories, voter surveys by the TV networks in­dicated erosion in the strength of the Colorado senator in all five primary states in the days just before the ballotting. 
Pollsters said that among voters who made up their minds on elec­tion day in Georgia, Mondale defeated Hart 36 percent to 22 per­cent. In Massachusetts, Mondale and Hart split the vote among those making up their minds late. Voters who decided in the previous month favored 19 for Mondale. 
As they were splitting the popular vote, the campaign rivals were divid­ing up the delegates. Hart was leading for 140 delegates, while Mondale was ahead for 127 from the five primary states. 

Student leaders voice objections to proposed boost in activity fees 
ByJAMES JANSEN 
News Staff 
A proposal to raise the student ac­tivity fee by S 10, which was tem­porarily shelved Monday night by the Student Senate, has invoked mixed reactions among key student government and administration figures. 
A committee will be formed to study Proposal 109 and its implica­tions before it is again considered by the full senate. 
The proposal, made by Sopho­more Class President Lee Broussard, would raise the fee from 530 to $40, earmark 70 percent of this extra money for dorms, and distribute it to the dorms on the basis of financial need. 
Several hall presidents aired their views on the proposal at last night's Hall Presidents Council meeting. 
"I am opposed to the proposal be­cause it is unfair to give money only on a need basis," said Dillon Hall President Bernie Pellegrino. "If the student activity fee is raised, the money should be divided evenly." 
Rob Bertino. Student Body President-Elect, is also against the proposal as it now stands. "Our fee is currently low in comparison to other universities, but as long as we can get by on that it's fine," he said. 
"I feel if there is an increase it should go to the Student Activities Programming Board and some kind of allotment should be made· for OC (off campus) people also. With the restructuring of the Student Union more social events will take place next year and extra money would be needed," he added. 
Bertino, who assumes his new post April 1, added, "The whole stu­dent activity fee issue may be solved before we take over. Right now Brian Callaghan (the current SBP) is in charge." 
Broussard said, "Ifdorms have the extra money they will have the potential to put on more social events such as dances and picnics. Right now the halls are limited to hall taxes and fundraisers. The new fee would help this out," he said. 
Bertino said there are definite 
problems with Broussard's proposal. 
"One of the problems with the 
proposal is how it will be regulated. 
and any increase should not be by $10, it should be less, and should go 
directly  to  the  Student  Activities  
Programming Board."  
Director  of  Student  Activities  

James McDonnell said the activity fee's biggest enemy has been infla­tion. The fee stood at $1 7 until 1980 when it was raised to 525. In the spring of 1982, students asked to raise it again and the fee was in­creased to S30 per student. 
The money available for campus organizations has improved, accord­ing to McDonnell. "In the fall of 1979 less than halfthe groups asking for money got any." This year, 90 percent of all applicants who applied for funds received them. 
McDonnell said any proposed in­crease "ought to be earmarked for campus events and activities. That's why it's called a student activity fee, not a hall improvement fund." 
McDonnell said if the alcohol policy is revised the activity fee could not be used for purchasing al­cohol but could be used for events where alcohol is served without paying for the alcohol. 
an early 70's version ofSt. Matthew's Gospel, is slated to open Commencement Week. 
Thl· (lbserver/(:arc)l (Jalcs 
HPC alcohol petition 
the HPC alcohol position, a bottle of champagne brought to the meeting by a council member accidentally popped open. Another council member said, "Looks like we have a closet alcoholic." 
The council's letter states, "We feel that these signatures are sym­bolic of the student support for the HPC proposal." 
Carlin said, "We do admit there is a problem. Any changes should be restrictions on excessive drunken­ness." 
The letter predicts any drastic change in alcohol policy would provoke 10 results, including in­creased drug and hard alcohol use, closet drinking, drunk driving and walking, and off-campus living and socializing." 
The letter states, "If students go off-campus to do their drinking the effects on the community could be very negative. Drunken students may cause damage to community property and disturb community peace. 
"Off-campus drinking will also lead to the problem of students driving home drunk. It is a proven fact the largest percentage of automobile accidents involve drivers who have been drinking," the letter continues. 
The letter states new restrictions will cause an "exodus" of students from the campus. 
To prevent this, the HPC said the policy should address just the problem drinkers. "Tht;,center focus of the administration is excessive drinking. At this time, there are ways 
see HPC, page 3 
•
2,500 sign 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY 
StaffReporter 
The Hall Presidents Council will send Provost Timothy O'Meara an estimated 2,500 student signatures opposing changes in the alcohol policy accompanied by a letter voicing reasons for the council's op­position.. 
"We might as well go down kick­ing," said HPC Chairman Mike Carlin. "Ofthe 14 dorms 1 have, I on­ly have 1,650 signatures," he said. Carlin estimated the total will reach more than 2,500 when the other 10 halls turn in their signatures today. 
As Carlin launched the debate on 
Students to represent SMC at model U.N. eonvention 
ByjEANSTE~ACHS 
News Staff 
The countries and conflicts will be the same, but 14 Saint Mary's government majors and students from around the country will replace the real delegates in the National Model United Nations Conference in New York City in April. 
The model U.N., the oldest simulation of its kind, will take place at the Grand Central Hyatt­Regency Hotel April 17-21. 
Saint Mary's, with Cathy Mcisaac as the head delegate, will represent Columbia. The stu­dents will meet the real Colum­bian delegation as part of their preparation for the conference. The group will also tour the U.N., according to government profcs­sor Patrick Pierce, who has or­ganized the trip. 
Students must have taken either "International Politics" or "Contemporary Political Issues" to qualify for the trip. Pierce is also conducting a preparatory class for the students attending the conference. 
Mcisaac, who represented Saint Mary's last year at the con­ference, said she is looking for­ward to "meeting a lot of people from different places." 
The Model U.N. will be composed of the six different 
U.N. Committees. Each commit­tee will be given an agenda of items, and they must present a resolution at the end of the con­ference. 
On Monday, April 2, tfi'e stu­dents will sponsor a party at Senior Bar to raise funds for the trip, said Pierce. 
Wednesday, March 14, 1984-page 2
The Observer 
In Brief . 
Notre Datne's Concert Band will conclude a 
~,000-milc spring tour through tlve central and southwestern states with the annual concert in the Athletic and Convocation Center on Sunday, March ZS, at H: IS p.m. The 61-member band, directed by Robert O'Brien, James Phillips and Father George Wiskirchen, will opt·n the tour with a benetlt concert tomorrow in Mother McAuley lligh School's auditorium, Chicago, at 7:.30 p.m. The musicians will make a stopover at St. Louis before traveling to Hot Springs, Ark., for a concert Saturday. Other concerts are scheduled for St. Pius Gym­nasium, Dallas, on March IH; St. Ann's Auditorium, San Antonio, March 19; Duquesne Academy, Houston, March 21; ElDorado, Ark., Municipal Auditorium, March 22; Perryville, Mo., Junior High School, Mard1 2~. and Routt High School Gymnasium, Jacksonville, Ill., March 24. -The Obsen•er 
The Office of the Registrar will close one-half 
hour t•arlier, according to Daniel Winicur, University registrar. The oftlce will close daily at 4:~0 p.m., effective immediately. Winicur said that the staff will be using the extra time for data processing.­
The Obsen•er 
Iran charged that Iraq used chemical weapons again yesterday in an attack on its forces in the Majnoon Islands east of Basra, and injured "tens" of Iranian soldiers. The accusation came. as a llnited Nations team arrived in Tehran to investigate earlier charges by Iran that Iraq had employed chemical warfare in the 3 ..­year gulf war. Iraq has denied the earlier charges and offered to cooperate in any probe. It did not immediately respond to the latest accusation. In Baghdad, meanwhile, Iraq said a scheduled meeting of Arab Lt·ague foreign ministers in Baghdad was postponed until Wed­nesday morning. Mohammed Saeed, undersecretary in Iraq's foreign ministry, said members agreed to continue deliberations on a draft resolution and wait for the arrival of the foreign ministers of Sudan and Morocco, who were expected overnight. Nineteen Arab countries have agreed to attend the meeting. -AP 
The way the City Council is running Garland, 
Texas, is a joke, says L. Earl Greene, and he wants to do something about it. Greene, also known as "Squirrely the Klown," is so angry about the way his city is being governed that he has popped on his bulbous rubber nose and joined the ranks ofcitizens scrambling for public oftlce. The clown is running for mayor of this Dallas suburb. "The average citizen is disgusted with the way this city is operated and with the response you get from City Hall," said Green, who does construction work when he's not wearing his blue, green, yellow, orange and pink wig, flowered pants and flappy white shoes. Greene is challenging incumbent Mayor 1\Jth Nicholson, businessman Charles Matthews and technical instructor Gary McVay in next month's election. "I plan to win by looking silly," he said. "I'll stick out like a sore thumb." -AP 
Of Interest 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, university presi­
dent. will discuss "The llnill'd States Civil Rights Commission" tomorrow at 4: IS p.m. in Room I I 0 of the Law School. Hesburgh, appointed to the commission in 19S 7 by President Dwight Eisen­hower. served for more than a decade before being !Ired by Presi­dent Richard Nixon. The lecture is sponsored by the Black Studies Collr>quium. -The Obsern•r 
Planning to be in Washington, D.C. 
during Spring Break? The Notre Dame club there is planning a career information night and reception on Tuesday at 6 p.m. in the Hughes Room of the National Lawyers Club, I HIS H Street NW. Recent graduates of the llniVL·rsity will be on hand to discuss career and summt·r employment opporwnities in the D.C. area. Peter Crowe, one of the organizers of the event, suggests students bring copies of thdr resumes. -The Obsen•er 
Weather ~ 
' I I 
The sun will come out with -::0: 
tt·mpt·raturt·s becoming warmer today. High in 
I I' 
tht· upper -lOs and low SOs. Fair tonight. Low in 
tht· mid and upper ~Os. Mostly sunny and war­
mer tomorrow, with a slight chance ofshowers 
devdoping. lligh in low and mid 60s. -AP 
The Observer 
Tht· Ob•erv.-r (I ~I'~ SlJlJ 2 tOOO l " puhlt,hed ~1onda} throu~h FridaY and on hona· foolhall '-!aturday!'l. t·xct·pr dur111~ t•xam .tiH.I \'JlJtion pt:rio<h. The Observer 1~ puhlbhnJ hy tlw ~llu.lt"lll!'!of lhl· l nin·r~it} of Notrl· Dame and ~.tint Mary·.., ( .ollc:p,t: ~uh:-.lTiption!'l ma} ht· purt h.t:-.t:d for S,?c; pt·r ~Tar ( SIc; pt·r \l"ntt"Sit'r) h) \\ rllinp, The Ohst•rvt•r, 
P 0. Box(). Nurrt•l>Jmt·. Enc.liana 16';~{~ 
The Observer;, a mt·mht·r ofThe A.'­sodated Press. All rquodUl'llon ngln.., ar(' rt·:-.t·rvcd 
Today's bsuc: was produn~·d hy: 
Productio11 Consultant ....... Stcl't" Foster 
/JesiRtl Editor........... , ........ Willie Suarez 
DesiR" Assislcml.. .. .. Lev Chapdsky 
1)•pt•sellers.... .. ...... llillllighuuche<:k 
Mkhdlt Fanto Neu.•s Editor.... .. .....Jdl IJarrington (."oPl' Editor.... .. ................ Kevin Ringer .\j}()r/s Cop)' Editor... .. .... Phil Wolf N/J Day Editor... .. Barhara Stevens .\lltC LJco· Editor. . .......Jolly Radler .-ttl D<•SiRtL ............... Bill O'Brien 
Pb(I/CIJ.!.YUjlber. .... Carol Gates 7)•pisls ........ Mary lleth PorttT 
What are Notre Dame profs thinking about these days? 
It is easy for students to know what most of their peers are thinking about these days. Talk with a roommate, listen to the lunchline chatter or read let­ters to the editor in The Observer. 
But few students ever get to know what faculty mem­bers think about students and the University. Many ofus see professors as strange mystics who live for SO and 75 minute classes, then disappear into the barbarous world beyond Notre Dame. 
The results ofa survey taken last fall show that profes­sors share many ofthe concerns students do. Many have adopted a cynical attitude about Father Hesburgh's vi­sion of the University -a university which many think Hesburgh worries about as a causa sui project, not as a genuine institution of higher learning. 
The faculty senate asked professors to weigh the strengths and weaknesses of the Notre Dame com­munity. Questionnaires 
6/lllllt..
Keith Picher 
~-;;~· 
Viewpoint Editor ... · 
-,n-s-,·d-:-e---:W-:-:-e--:-d-ne_s_dT""a-y--..-..,"'..,b 
i/1!1/dfVU/Jiff!o 
courses. Still others mention that the TCE's force professors to babysit students and water down their courses. 
Only three ofthe 289 responses found the forms very helpful, and most who favored the forms gave qualified responses. 
On the issue of campus space, our campus intel­ligentsia seem to think the most important issue facing the professors is the lack ofparking space. 
Ofcourse teachers do not 
were mailed to 600 faculty members soliciting answers to some "very broad and open-ended questions." 
The first question asked about features ofthe Univer­sity which most facilitate or inhibit scholarship. Many praised the library and com­puter facilities (less than I 0 percent rated the library and its services "poor"). Perhaps some professors do not know how good libraries and computer facilities are at other schools. 
But many others added a bit of healthy cynicism. Being "let alone" by Univer­sity administrators and com­live on campus and are not 

familiar with much of the 
crowding students have 
come to know. Nonetheless, 
supposed "seminar" classes 
frequently have 25 or 30 stu­dents, and the ~ stu­dent/teacher ratio often is absurd at Notre Dame ­and professors are worried about crowded parking lots? 
Some faculty members went out on a limb, recommending a new stu­dent center, better use of the bookstore or even an ob­servatory tower (Ellerbe: don't even think about it.) 
Another question con­cerned the status of the 
mittees was important to some, while others said nothing at Notre Dame aids scholarship. The report from the faculty affairs committee notes that "too often cynical remarks were appended or odious comparisons with other universities were made." 
When asked about the strongest feature of the present curriculum, most professors answered there was none. When asked how to improve the curriculum, most had no proposals. 
The survey asked professors to comment on the value of teacher-course evaluations. More than 80 per­cent of all the professors said the TCE system had no value at all. As the report notes, "expletives and ex­planations were quite candid, such as mentioning that chairs, deans and the provost are the only ones who want it." 
Many professors think the forms cause grade infla­tion and force untenured faculty in particular to "please" students. Others think students too often do "hatchet jobs" on professors who offer challenging library. Fifty-five percent of the faculty said they were satisfied with the current condition. 
But others were more observant, noting that the library needs higher acquisition budgets, better research facilities and better photocopying machines (so the copy stays on the paper, not on shirts and forearms). Others labeled some of the University's old­er collections "trash." 
Most professors seem satistled with their "generous salaries," for which they thank the Provost and Father Hesburgh. But many others think this year's changes in the health benefits plan will more than erase any real increases. I 
With the opening of the faculty office building this spring, students will have a better chance to interact with professors outside the academic setting. 
Let's hope students take the time. We can learn a lot from professors. And if the results of the faculty survey mean anything, professors could learn a thing or two from students as well. 


The Observer Wednesday, March 14, 1984-page 3 

Mock rules 
' 
Rules Committee Chairman Ken Fisher advises Debbie Zollner at last night'sMock Convention Rules Workshop. 
The Observer/Carol Gales 
SUMMER STOJ\AGE SPACE 
Special discount for lfDISMC students 
(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 
1 
CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE 
)
.,SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKI:NLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 


SENIORS 
Senior Formal Bids On Sale This Week 3/12-3/14 Also Available are Ticketsfor Second City for Friday, April 13 
ik>OI~IOC:I!lQOOCIOCX)O~..r~oac~~....o= 
!'~~~
....... 
A Touch OfIreland 
r Jlladdagfi 
Rings --Pendants -Pins 
A gift of Love and Friendship for more than 400 years Also... Authentic Blackthorn Walking Sticks and Other Irish Gifts 
A~UINAS 2310 MISHAWAKA AVENUE
~~~~o~\ .a I 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46615\.OC~ Telephone 287·1091 
Pre Law Society Presents 
Lecture on Kennedy Assassination and Warren Commission 
by Prof. Blakely from N.D. Law School 104 O'Shaughnessy 7PM 
Christian, Moslem leaders agree to tertns of cease-fire in Lebanon 
Associated Press 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland -Chris­tian and Moslem leaders agreed yes­terday on terms ofa cease-fire to halt the fighting in Lebanon. 
A statement issued at Lebanon's national reconciliation conference said the cease-fire would take effect at 9 p.m. (2 p.m. EST). 
Beirut radio said negotiators reached a "comprehensive" cease-::­ftre agreement and all parties in Beirut were told of the decision. 
For the first 15 minutes after 9 p.m., salvos of mortar shells and rockets fell on residential areas of Christian east Beirut and shells also landed in parts of Moslem west Beirut. An apparent calm then settled over the city. 
There have been many cease-fires in the 9-year-old civil war; none have held. 
In Lausanne, Michel Samaha, senior adviser to President Amin Gemayel, said the plan "does not need any signatures. It is adopted by all participants in the conference." 
Agreement had been held up by a controversy over whether Gemayel should sign the pact as head of state or as a party to the conflict. 
The plan released here listed six points to bring about a permanent cease-fire and restore stability and security to Lebanon. 
The six points are: orders to all factions to stop fighting; formation of a military committee composed of members ofall sides; formation of supervisory committees to monitor the truce; separation of combatants and establishment of buffer zones; reopening of Beirut's airport and port; and a halt to information cam­paigns by the rival parties. 
As the Lebanese leaders met, 
firing continued in Beirut and a U.S. 
Marine was shot in the back outside 
the capital, apparently by a sniper. 
He was reported in stable condition. 
Only 200 tickets are available at $7 each 

IMPORTED LEATHERS CERAMICS Linea-1 GIFTS AND COFFEE SHOP 1631 E. EDISON RD. SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 (219) 277-4983 SERVING: ESPRESSO-CAPPUCCINO-PASTRIES-LUNCHES (NEAR NOTRE DAME)  

HOFSTRA LAW SCHOOL SUMMER SESSIONS 1984 SUMMER SESSION 1 SUMMER SESSION 2 May 21 to July 2 July 3 to August 10 COURSES CREDITS COURSES CREDITS Child, Family & State 3 Commercial Transactions Commercial Paper 3 Survey 4 Conflict of Laws 3 Federal Courts 3 Criminal Procedure 4 Federal Estate and Gift Tax 3 Debtor·Creditor 3 Labor Law 3 Evidence 4 Law and Public Education 3 Family Law 3 Real Estate Transactions 4 Law and Medicine 3 Wills. Trusts and Estates 4 Remedies 3 Secured Transactions 3 Unfair Trade Practices 3 For Further Information Write or Call: (516) 560·5916 HOFSTAA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW Hempslead, Long Island. New York 11550 Hofstra University is an equal educational opportunity mstitut1on  

The Marine was not identified by the 
U.S. military. He was one of 100 Marines left behind to guard the U.S. Embassy when the multinational force left. 
Gemayel's national security ad· viser, Wadih Haddad, said the dead· lock over the signature issue was broken by the proposal "from several people." A source said the Syrian and Saudi observers sug­gested the accord be approved by consensus, requiring no signatures. 
Haddad said the meeting also was 
. presented with several working papers on political, social and economic reforms in a new Lebanon. One, by the Lebanese Front coalition of right-wing Chris­tian groups, called for a Swiss-style federal structure of Lebanon. Sources said this was opposed by Moslem delegates and the Syrian ob­server, vice president Abdui-Halim Khaddam. 
Big Sisters plan weekend with surveys 
ByJANE KRAVCIK 
StaffReporter 
If your little sister came to visit you for a weekend, how would you want to keep her entertained? This is one question being asked in a survey this week at Saint Mary's in anticipa­tion of Big Sister-Little Sister Weekend, Apri16-8. 
The replies to the questionnaire will help chairwoman Marti Jones plan the weekend. 
Jones has already begun to plan a tentative schedule of events. The weekend will begin Friday with late afternoon registration. Events planned for the evening include swimming, a pizza party, the Regina Review Talent Show, and showings ofThe Muppet Movie. 
Saturday's events include break· fast in the residence halls, aerobics, roller skating, games, a steak dinner, a coffeehouse and showings of the movieStripes. 
No deadline has been set for registration. Jones said, "Right now, we are just waiting for responses." 
HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
to exercise control and observation ofstudents to prevent their drinking to ex~ess. If the center of social ac­tivities moves off-campus, drinking by all students will occur in an un­controlled environment. There will be no supervision off-campus, therefore increasing the possibilities of drunkenness," the Jetter con­tinues. 
• At last night's council meeting, the members voiced unanimous support for the letter. 

St. Patrick's Day Sale at Dick's Standard 
.til
STEEL BELTED 
~ 
Size 
P155/80R13 
P165/80R13 
P185/80R13 
P185/75R14 
P195/75R14 
P205/75R14 
P205/75R15 
P215/75R15 
P225/75R15 
P235/75R15 
WHILE IN STOCK 

. .: .·. -···.~.~-: ·';. 


There are stm openings on the Student Union Bus to Ft. Lauderdale 


~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t________________w_ro_ne_~_~_,M_M_ch-14_,_198-4--pa-~-4 
Recollections of a reformed boxer 
The rash of injuries that has plagued the: Bengal Bouts this yt·ar is unprecedented in tht.· dub's half-century tradition. At the first day of practice: every year the coacht·s proudly an-
Kevin Binger 
Guest Column, 
nounce that there: has never been so much as a broken nose in Bengal Bouts history. 
The: semi-finals saw two boxers receive broken noses and a third a fractured cht-c:khone. To say nothing of the: boxer who collapsed in a practice: session and was rushed to tht· hospital with a subdural hematoma ­that"s a swelling of blood within the brain, folks. 
But boxing is a rough sport, thafs no secret. You can't expect a sport where: the: athlc:tc:s do nothing hut hit each other to he: injury free. 
But that doesn't mean the Bengal Bouts should bt· cancelled. That would he carrying paternalism just one step too far. 
We certainly have the right to prohibit one person from beating up another on the street, hut if two consenting adults want to pummel each other and call it a sport, that's their busi­ness. 
And if they want to raise money for a good cause at the same time. at lc:ast their motiva­tions are admirable:. 
If nothing else the bouts serve as a poignant lesson to a few of the misguided young men who participate in them. I know, I was one of them. 
As a dedicated Muhammed Ali fan who glamorized the professional boxers on TV be­cause they seemed to have no fear, I sub­mitted to my macho inclinations and joined the bouts two years ago. 
I learned how your adrenaline starts flowing when you get up in the morning knowing that you have to spar that afternoon. 
You're jumpy and on edge all day. I learned the frustration and humiliation ofgetting your nose bloodied and got little satisfaction from bloodying other's noses. 
In short, I learned first hand just how vioknt a life style boxing really is. Ifthe whole idea behind sport is to sublimate our animal instincts in a socially acceptable way, then very little sublimation occurs in boxing. 
The clincher for me was the first night of the bouts, which were then in the ACC. The difference between practicing in the little gym next to the hockey rink and stepping into the elevated, floodlit ring in the middle of the vast stadium was a quantum leap. 
All of the precision combinations and ring tactics we had honed so carefully over the past six weeks went right out the window. The crowd seemed to roar in unison ­"Come on, hit him," and the gentlemanly sport of boxing degenerated into a brawl. 
In a particularity bloody match my op­oonent and I toe-to-toed it all three rounds while the crowd hooted and hollered and generally released all their violent urges. As I massaged my aching face after the fight I made a firm decision, (and you may call this sour grapes because I lost in a split decision), ­This was to be the last time the crowd got a vicarious thrill at the expense of my health. 
But I learned my lc:sson. I got that chip I'd been carrying around off my shoulder. The: next time some young guy flashed me the: bird from another car across the street I just grinned, realizing how pointless it would for us to give: each other a black-eye: and a headache. 
Young men coming out ofhigh school tend to fec:l a need to be: tough, asserting their mas­culinity in such worthy places as barrooms and parking lots. If more of them spent a couple of months of intense boxing like the Bengal Bouts program, they might decide to find other ways to assert themselves. 
And that's a lesson that may just be worth a broken nose. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
CPA course 
/Jear Editor: 
This lt·ttc:r is in n·sponse to your front page: artkle on tht.· Convisor-CPA rc:vic:w course:, Mard1 7, 191-!4. 
Tht.· article: states that I rc:cc:ivt·d a lc:ttc:r from Notre Dame indkating that if I taught portions of the Convisor courst·, my job I would bt· plat."c:d in jeopardy. 
This information was both mislc:ading and inacnJratt·. To set the rc:<:ord straight, I was conta<:tc:d by the: Convisor people: but dedtled not to take: on this added respon­sibility given my primary commitments to Saint Mary's College and my family. 
I.ct me categorically state that at no time: did Notn· Dame c:n·r write a letter to me:, or indt.-ed, contact me in any othn fashion n·garding my t:onsulting/teaching activities. 
Saint Mary's Collegt· and Notn· Dame, though tied through a long history of associa­t ion. arc: otht.·rwise autonomous. Whether or not I am rt·tainnl on the: tt·aching faculty at Saint Mary's Collegt· is t·ntirely dependent on my job performance: my tt·aching evaluations, my rt•st.·art.·h and professional growth, as well as my contributions to the community at largt·. 
Notre Damt.· has no control what so ever rt·garding my retention at Saint Mary's Coi­It-gt·. I dt·eply resent the "apron string" in­ft-rt·nt't' that Saint Mary's College is unable: to make its own decisions and the inference that my t•ntire futun· is dependent on an alleged lt-ttt·r from Notre Dame. 
It would seem to me to bt· sound journalis­tk pral'lice to take rt.·astmable steps to verify tht.· an:uracy of what is to bt· printed. 
Finally, let me add that Saint Mary's College continues to offer a CPA course: for credit as part of our regular curriculum. We, tht.· SMC at.Tnunting faculty, art· vt·ry proud ofboth the l(Uality uf uur accounting program as wdl as our proft·ssional commitment to ourstudents. 
Susan Vance 
Alcohol policy 
/Jear Editor: 
As a member ofAlcoholics Anonymous and a Notre Dame student, I feel I can offer a unil(Ut' vkwpoint on the alcohol situation. I am writing this with the ass1,1mption that any changes being made are because of the problc:m drinkers here. 
Instt·ad ofbasing its decision on some PACE reports, I wish the University would get to the "meat and potatoes" of the problem. Non­problem drinkers simply do not understand alcoholism (problem drinking is simply an early stage). 
Any external conditions the University poses will do absolutely nothing to halt the problem drinkers. Change does not come un· til a person wants to do something about his problem HIMSEI.F. All that external restric­tions will do is stop those who don't have drinking problems from drinking -a right that they should have. 
Take myself as an example. I was asked to Ic:ave boarding school (right before gradua­tion, whkh I was lucky to take part in), ap­peared at a hearing and nearly lost my driver's license for tampering with it, put on a "no drinking" contract within six weeks of arrival 


~~(A~~ukWdin~ThU~Medilioutfi~~---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q~-j~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~-J
days), and had numerous run-ins with my~ 
parents -all as a result ofdrinking. 
Yc:t, ifanything, my drinking increased and I became prouder ofhow much alcohol I could consume. Some may call this immaturity and lack of intelligence. We in AA have a different name for this type of behavior -insanity. Thankfully, though, something happened inside of me and I knew that I had to stop. Nobody told me or made me -I wanted to. 
Now, what should the University do? Well, the first step is determining who has a drink­ing problem and who does not. This cannot be done by anyone except the individual. 
Francis Phillips 
Where's the beef? 
Dear Editor: 
The familiar advertising slogan "Where's the Bed?" has now become the agonized cry of students on Fridays throughout Lent. The whole point of self-sacrifice seems extremely hollow when the student body is not even given a choice in the matter. Non-Catholics as well as Catholics of the University have all given up the eating of meat on Fridays -in­voluntarily. 
Has anyone ever thought that some stu­dents may not adhere to this practice? What about non-Catholics? The solution to the problem is quite simple: Have the dining halls serve meat on Fridays. Those who recognize the religious practice will make the sacrifice and actually have one to make. Those who en­joy "baloney and American on whole wheat" will still be able to even on Fridays of Lent. 
W'. Gregory' 
Senior townhouses? 
The other day as we were leafing through the PACE (Priorities and Commitments for Excellence) Report, we found: "it is recom­mended that alternative housing arrange­ments, including townhouse complexes, be pursued for selected seniors." 
Whysenior housing? The PACE Committee saw a need to alleviate overcrowding in older 
Koreman and 1anairo 
Double take 
men's dorms, to create more common space, to provide alternative housing for selected seniors in recognition of their growth and maturity, to help transfer students with housing, and to recognize the difference in so­cial needs between seniors and freshmen. 
lt sounds like a good idea, but how will these seniors be "carefully selected" and by whom? What would the criteria be? Rector recommendation ? Moral behavior? A true Domer spirit? The PACE Report is unclear here. 
Assuming townhouse living is good, and the Administration isn't careful, those who are selected to live there will be seen as an elite group. Such a group would create another 
needless division on campus. Those seniors I who aren't selected would be stranded at the Editor's note: Anne Marie Janairo and Megan dorms and their social situation even worse Koreman are sophomores in the Program of than before. Liberal Studies at Notre Dame. 
GOOD UH 
fOR tfl 
I 
Another point the Report overlooked is that the University lacks the facilities to accom­modate these seniors between classes if the townhouses are off-campus. (Ifsenior housing were on White Field, for instance, this wouldn't be a problem.) 
However, these townhouses have to be bet­ter than the present situation off-campus, that is, if they are designed as student housing. Campus View was not. 
In fact, the townhouses are a better idea for seniors as a transition between school and business. While an 18-year-old freshman needs the support of the dorms, a 22-year-old senior does not need that authority. Also, senior spirit is hampered because the rules and regulations of the dorms are designed for underclassmen. 
While the PACE Committee called for separate senior housing, it did not recom­mend underclass housing segregation. In fact, in the report, "the stay-hall system is reaf­
1 firmed." This is a valuable system: it maintains hall traditions, fosters friendships between different classes, and gives freshmen the benefit oftheir older friends' experience. 
We'd like to see Recommendaion 32 put in­to action. There may be problems but if they are handled well, the townhouses can only en­hance life at Notre Dame. 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic DepartmentManagers Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe 
P. 0. Hox Q. Notrl'IJame,JN 46556 ( 1/<J) 239-5303 ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn Business Manager ............ .....Christophe•· Owen 
The Ohsen'l>r is tht· indt•pt·ndt·nt nt·wspap<:r published by tht.• students of the l"ni­News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide C(m/roller ..............................................Alex Szilvas, versity of Notre Damt· du l.ac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect NewsEditor....................................Mark WQrscheh Ad1•ertising Manager ... ...................Jeanie Poole tht· policit·s of tht· administration of dthcr institution. The news is rt·ported as ac­SaintMary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager... .................. 1.'.Mlark Miotto t·uratdy and as objectivdy as possibll'. l"nsignnl editorials reprcst·nt tht· opinon of a SportsEditor .................................Michael Sullivan \ystems Manager... ...............K,e~~n William~ majority oftht· Editorial Hoard. Commemarics, kttc:rs, and the Insidt• Column present ViewpointEditor ................ , ..~Y..,I.Q.,;(.Keith J>icher H::lll' tht· vic:ws ofthdr authors. Column span· is available to all members ofthe community, Ft!tttures Editor................... .....Sarah liamilton 
Founded November 3,1966
and tht· frt'l' expression ofvarying opinionson campus. through letters. is t·ncouraged. Photo Editor................ ..............Scott Bown 
The Observer Wednesday, March 14, 1984 -page 5 

STUDENTS 
Do You Need a Full Time Summer Job? Do You Live In The Chicago Area? 
!PSI MARKETING is expanding our Telemarketing ~ales Staff to accomodate additional summer college ~tudents. In the past, our summer students have ~arned, on the average, of $150-$525 per week salary I ~ommission during the summer. We offer an extensive ~raining program, great hours, flexible shift schedule, ~uaranteed salary, and congenial working atmosphere. 
What's the Catch? 
You must be aggressive, willing to learn, an above average student, and enjoy talking on the phone. 
Call our Toll Free number 1-800-621-6426 before Spring Break to set up an interview date while you're in Chicago during your Spring Break. Ifaccepted, you can lock up a summer job ahead of time. Ask for Mr. Davis when calling. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters r da . 

NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5 30 
WORDPROCESSING -Fast, accurate work. 272-8827. 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING AT LOW PRICES REPORTS _RESEARCH PAPERS LEGAL DOCUMENTS RESUMES COVER LEITERS CONTACT TEAl BAN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 234-4045 
ATIENTION CLASS OF 1987111 VOTE THE HAPPENIN' TICKET FOR 1984-85! Write us in for sophomore class oligarchy. so we can put it on our resumes. ·TOMMY MCHUGH -MIKIE O'GRADY ·DANNY TANCZOS -STEVIE KRANZ DEDICATED TO LAZINESS AND APATHY FOR '84-'85 
"QUEST FOR GOLD" Chartty fashion show sponsored by the Sophomore Class. Tuesday, March 27, 8:00p.m.-ACC Monogram Room-$3.00 Tickets available at the door. 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES night cocktail waitress.day wartperson. day utility.APPLY WHARF RESTAURANT. 
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082 
ATIENTION EVERYONE: The ND/SMC Right to Life organization needs furniture, appJiances, pa1nt. etc., or monetary dona­tions tor our Pregnancy Help Center. Pleae check with family and friends as to the postbtlity of making a contribution. We need YOUR help to help others. THANK YOU!! 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST a gold Smith-Corona electric typewrrter 1n black carrying easel! It was lost 1n Zahm Hall. Please return. If found please call8875 or 8876, or return to Lost and FoundintheAdmin. Bldg. Thank you 
LOST; STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. ALL WOOL, PULLOVER, I LOST IT 2 OR 3 WEEKS AGO. IF FOUND, RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND ON FIRST FLOOR OF AD­MIN. BLDG. OR CALL BUDDY AT 8278 ANYTIME. REWARD. THANK YOU. ST. AP.F.U. 
FOUND: ONE SCHOOL RING WITH IN­SCRIPTION AVE .MARIA", ONE STRAWBERRY REO BROOKS BROTH~ AS SWEAT!j:A, 'AND ONE REO AND GRAY SCARF FOR LOST ITEMS LOST: Wallet/pouch. Maroon, leather, zipper. Driver's license and Calif. I.D. enclosed. Last seen Monday (3/5) p.m. in B.P. Mary 283-1992 
LOST: A SHARP CALCULATOR --within last 2 weeks--please call Mary Beth, NO. 6289 
I lost my Notre Dame class ring-class of 1985,initials engraved RRH it was a Chrismas gift from a very special person­much sentimental value. Please call Bob at 1 010 or return to Lost & Found. 
LOST: One pair of BLACK SKI GLOVES either in the Art Bldg. or in the Business Bldg. or anywhere around there. Desperately needed aas winter is still upon beautiful South Bend. Please call Steve at 8428 in the evenings. 
LOST: A SHARP CALCULATOR --within last 2 weeks--please call Mary Beth. NO. 6289 
LOST: One pair of BLACK SKI GLOVES either in the Art Bldg. or in the Business Bldg. or anywhere around there. Desperately needed aas winter is still upon beautiful South Bend. Please call Steve at 8428 in the evenings. 
LOST?? Navy blue NO plastic bill fold­SMC Clubhouse-Sat 1 Oth-AIIID's-driver's license.exchange card,student ID,minister card, etc please returr. them-I NEED them tor break.-Mary Rose NO. 7852 
Lost-gold Armrtron digital watch wed. night March 7 at the ACC track call Mike at -14 72 if found. Thanks. 
Lost: A gold woman's digital watch 
Timex on Friday 3/9. Possibly left at the brar. Please call Amy at 6954 if found. 
My camera, with the initials jan, mys­teriously disappeared from Carroll Hall Sat. night. The film is of great sentimental value. If you know of its whereabouts please call7119. 
LOST: a burgundy Larry Levine wool coat 3/9 at Corby's. If found, please call6983. 
LOST THUR. NIGHT: GOLD SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH. OF GREAT VALUE TO OWNER. REWARD OFFERED. NO. 1688 
TO WHOEVER ENDED UP W/MY LIS­GENGE AT NICKlES ON SAT NITE, I WOULD LIKE IT BACK .. PLEASE CALL 3452 OR MAIL TO 244 HOLY CROSS. THANKS. 
LOST: One pathetic excuse for a date: answers to the name FAYE LUCAITIS­Iast seen at the Grace Hall formal leaving behind a trail of snail mucus. If found, shoot to kill. and ignite 
LOST: Two navy peacoats at SMC Club­house on 3-9. If taken by mistake please call 284-5072 
FOR RENT 
HOME NEAR CAMPUS. $245 PER MONTH&$245 SECURITY 
DEPOSIT.272~306 
................................................................ 
I am going to Monroe City, MO tor Spring Break. If l(,OU know where Monroe City, Hannibal, Jacksonville, Quincy, or anywhere In the area Is, and you need a ride, call (277 -7570). 
TIRED OF LOOKING FOR THE BEEF AT THE DINING HALL? Sign up tor the NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS program. This week in the dining halls, 4:30-6:30. 
RIDES 
······························ .............. . Need ride for spring break to the lovely village of Midland, Michigan. Okay, anywhere nearby is fine. In fact, if worst comes to worst, even Saginaw is all right. If you can help this poor, sweet, cute, little boy, give Ronnie a call at 8287. He won't think you're just being bold. 
I am DESPERATE for a ride to ATLANTA for Spring Break. Anybody going to Florida could drop me offalong 1-75. Can leave Friday afternoon. Call David at 277­1326. 
PITISBURGH---RIDE NEEDED! Larry NO. 1487 
Friendly, outgoing single male seeks one­way ride preferrably to BOSTON but will also take to NYC. No photo necessary. Please call STEVE at 8428; evenings af­ter8pm. 
NEEDED: RIDE OR RIDES TO TAMPA FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE EX­, PENSES call TOM OR HENRY AT 1748. 
NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE OR UTICA, NY AREA FOR BREAK. WILL SHARE THE USUAL. CALL DAN AT 3698. 
Need ride for spring break to the lovely village of Midland, Michigan. Okay. anywhere nearby is fine. In fact, rt worst comes to worst, even Saginaw is all right. It you can help this poor, sweet, cute, little boy, give Ronnla a call at 8287. He won't think you're just being bold. 
PITISBURGH---RIDE NEEDED! Larry N0.1487 
Friendly, outgoing single mate seeks one­way ride preferrably to BOSTON but will also take to NYC. No photo necessary. Please call STEVE at 8428; evenings af­ter8pm. 
NEEDED: RIDE OR RIDES TO TAMPA FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE EX­PENSES call TOM OR HENRY AT 1748. 
NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE OR UTICA, NY AREA FOR BREAK. WILL SHARE THE USUAL. CALL DAN AT 3698. 
Need a ride to Chicago erther Wednesday after 3:10 or Thursday Please call Mic­helle 7187. 
....................,......................................... DC AREA--Need 2 riders leaving Fri AM. $30 round trip! Call Lisa AFTER 8 PM at 522-6891. 
Riders needed to Colorado or Kansas Call Andy 1380 
WASHINGTON D.C. AREA NEED RIDE TO NY OR LONG ISLAND. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DAYTONA/JACKSONVILLE call 687716879 
need ride to Chicago -western suburbs. Can leave after 4 Thurs. call Sheila/Laura 3484 
RIDERS NEEDED ONE WAY-NOTRE DAME TO RICHMOND, VA OR D.C. AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL NANCY6868. 
RIDERS NEEDED ONE WAY-BOSTON TO NOTRE DAME. LEAVING SUNDAY, MARCH 25. CALL NANCY AT 6868. 
Riders needed to Alabama or anywhere along 1-65. Call Theresa 7591 or Frank 1609. 
RIDE TO AUSTIN, TX AND BACK. Leave Fri 3/16 or pass Thur. Return Sunday 3/25 share usual.. Call Patrick at 3537 
NEED RIDERS EAST! PITISBURGH, BREEZEWOOD, DC, BALTIMORE. CALL WILL -8716. LEAVE FRI. MORN­ING. 
DESPERATE! Need I rider along 65 & 75. NO. 4678 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: BRAND NEW TYROLIA 380 RD BINDINGS$100CALL DAVE 8810 
FOR SALE: GREEN OVERCOAT, 
LARGE, IN VERY GOOD CONDITION 
MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER­
CALL PATIY AT 8654 
BOTLEGS,ALBUMS 277-6398 
Attn. new Hall Pres. 1 yroldFoosballtable 4-sale ex. cond.. ideal for hall game room. Must sell. 234-0319 Best offer. 
bmw 1978 excellant condition meticulous care k. davies, audio center or 683 -6661 
Attn. new Hall Pres. 1 yr old Foosball table 4-sale ex. cond., ideal for hall game room. Must sell. 234-0319 Best offer. 
bmw 1978 excellant condition meticulous care k. davies, audio center or683 -6661 
BUY OF THE WEEK: MEMOREX DIS­KETIE 5 1/4' SINGLE SIDE,DOUBLE DENSITY PRICE $1.90 CALL 232-9349 AFTER 5.00 PM. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIll!Ill 
Real Programmers don't wrtte in PAS­CAL, or BLISS, or ADA, or any of those pinko computer science languages. 
Q:HOW MANY CHEGS DOES IT TAKE TO CROSS A RIVER? A:ONL Y 1. BUT HE HAS TO WAIT UNTIL THE REAL EN­GINEERS ARE DONE BUILDING THE BRIDGE. 
NY, NJ, WEST, CONN & Long Island­bound atlldentsll Join the St. Patrick's Day parade and party sponsored by the NY alumni club. Auemble for marching at 48th, between 5th and Madison at 4 pm. Party afterwards at Stan Hope Hotel (5th and 81 at) 5:30­
9:30. No cover charge. ALL drinks $3. Muatbe19. 
ATLANTA ATLANTA ATLANTA 
David needs a ride to Atlanta for Spring break. Call him at 277-1326. 
TIRED OF LOOKING FOR THE BEEF AT THE DINING HALL? Sign up for the NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS program. This week in the dining halls, 4:30 -6:30. 
Jefferson Starahlp Grateful Dead Steve Miller Band Pablo Cruise The Tazmanlan Devita 
and, now, 
Huey Lewis and the News 
The legacy goes on! Marin County Rocks! 
ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS FEVER ... contract Ill 
The Elephants Are Coming ... 
Tired of keggers? Do something different ·go for "ROOTS". an interesting study of 
S. Bend neighborhoods and excellent food. · 
Would you be willing to help Gary Hart during break, in your home state or where ever else you will be? If yes, please con­tact John at 3377. We will have a meeting on Thursday at 9PM in Keenan. 
Demers do it in the snow. Come help Gary Hart to victory in the Illinois Primary. We will provide transportation back and forth from N.D., a place to sleep, and a meal every day for anyone witung to help lorthe first tour days of break. If interested, con­tact John at 3377. Meeting in Keenan at 9PM Thursday .. 
Late breaking story: Larry Flint has ac­cepted an lnvHatlon to spak at Notre Dame's commencement. 
Help!!! I'll die rt I have to live wnh my roommate's smelly shoes over spring break! Take pny on me and give me a ride to Columbus, OH. I'll pay you money! Call Howie at x1765. 
hector: i love you!!!! "a secret admirer" 
Mexico? We were thinking of Times Square ... 
VOULEZ.YOUS? Meeting for French skn for the lnt.Student Fest, Weds, 4:15, LaFortune lobby. Nous avons besoin de toi! 
MARRRYA WENCH SAKOWICZ, J.D. Life w/o you hasn't been fun since I've been sprung. Call reformatory to revive our Monday nrte "tutoring"-I want to have your babies. Don't do anything I wouldn't on your 21st-Love,Chris.P.S.Only a tool would go to the Brar tonite. 
ATIENTION ND-SMC COMMUNITY: GIVE UP YOUR LUNCH HOUR THIS THURSDAY AND COME SEE LISA E. CERNEKA GIVE HER SENIOR SEMI­NAR AT 12:15 IN THE SMC SCIENCE HALL. ITS AN EVENT YOU WONT WANT TO MISS!!!!! 
ROBERT BANKS IS A HOMOsapien CHRIS EDWARDS 
IRISH MARAUDERS Hey! Pat 'Land­Nav", Jayne 'I need a phone booth", Greg .. Bweed da wizzard", Chuck "What's up", Ed "Square march", Maj. ·Love White Castles". SGM "He's got rhythm" and Fuzzy--LOOK OUT BOS­TON, HERE WE COME!! from John 
Taps, Sabres & push-ups" 
PHILLY CLUB BUS DEPARTS FRIDAY MARCH 16 AT 6PM FROM CCE BUILD­ING DROPOFF AT VALLEY FORGE AND GREYHOUND STATION ( CEN­TERCITY) 
DR. DREAD: Just watt til I get my hands on you, you slimy has-been! Love, Vk:kie 
FLANNER FLANNER FLANNER BOB­BY BLIGH and CHAS PHILLIPS for FLANNER CO-PRESIDENTS in the RUNOFF ELECTION ... Vote TODAY! 
Spider in the cupboard? 
HAVE YOU INSURED YOUR NEW COMPUTER? CALL GLEN NEELY STATE FARM INS. 272-6565.0R 272­1780. 
JAMMIN' It's Erin Mullarkey's B­day!..."too funny!" Happy 19th Erin! We love you! JF. DR, DS. LK, WD. MM. MT, MC, BA, JA, BH & SF 
Larry, Did you get your message Sunday night? Just in case you didn't: "LET 'ER RIP, WILL!" 
FISH, CAROLINE, JANE. JACKIE. KATIE, RUTHANN HAVE A GREAT BREAK! THINK OF ME NOW, I'M IN FLORIDA!!!! LOVE, MAGS 
ATIENTION Pierre, Frandrea, Jeanne/Jeanne. Swan, Rena and Seal. The saga of 4-South continues! Be there, Thur March 15 for an all-nighter. Guess Who (The Beast) 
Out of control? Delirious? Call Teresa Moriarny Escort Service 4 the Ctueles 284-4353 special ratess at 6:00am 
Classes now formng for Tom Donohue's School of Charm. Students may enroll over Spring Break at El Torno's (on Scot­tsdale Rd) from 4-7/ best on Fridays. 
Men of Carroll: H is best to pay up on lot bet (esp. cases of Molson) if one intends to bet and receive the winnings in the future. 
SEX Ski racks needed for Spring Break Big$$$$ 284-4391 
to whoever took my gold Caravelle watch from the Rocl< last Thursday tt has great sentimental value. Reward is offered. Call 1620. No questions asked. 
The Administration is a lightweight. 
CALL dN SAINT ANtHONY (1536) Strong typing is for people with weak ATTENTION
..--------------. RESIDENTS--Need to sell my spot on the RIDE NEEDED TO DETROIT. LISA 7445 THANK YOU VERY MUCH. memories. ATTENTION 
ATTENTION Lost: Prescnption Sunglasses. Brown I em going to Monroe City, MO for FALLING IN LOVE WITH YOU. B Ray-Ban Wayfarer Frames WI Purple I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO Spring Break. If you know where Stell and Neve, 
Tinted RX Lenses. If you can't see w/ Contemplative Sisters on Adams Rd., CLOUMBUS, OH, FOR SPRING Monroe City, Hannibal, Jack.onvllle, ATTENTION SMC JUNIORS You are the sweetest -always them on. they·re probably mine. CASH S.B. desire priest to cele-brate Mass. Call BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. Quincy, or anywhere In the area Is, and Senior Board Applications due March Love, Erin and Debbie REWARD. Call Boat NO. 1615. 
WANTED ,~rt~i, rhi5~-~-~~~~~--~~~ tor.spri~,~~:-~~LL 
DON'T FALL ASLEEP ON ME WHEN I'M 
272-9425 CALL HOWIE AT x1765. you need a ride, call (277-7570). 16th at the HCC. 
Wednesday, March 14,1984-page6
The Observer 
ODU 
continuedfrom page 8 
The Wildcats clobbered the Irish, 71-S7. Phdps is confident that the same thing will not happen again this year. 
"The most important thing," says 
the Irish coach, "is that we've known 
where we stood for a long time. Last 
year we were in shock (at not 
making the NCAA's), and played like 
it. This year we had our mind set on 
the NIT." 
Old Dominion primarily plays seven men. Keith Thomas, a 6-3 sophomore, leads the Monarchs' backcourt scoring with his 14. I points per game. The other ODU guard is 6-3 junior Charlie Smith, who adds 11.7 points per contest. 
Leading scorer Mark Davis ( 14.2 points) is the big scorer up front, despite being only 6-4. 
Sophomore Kenny Gattison, often a catalyst for the Monarchs, chips in 
11.1 points ofhis own, in addition to leading Old Dominion in rebound­ing with an average ofseven per con­test. 
At 6-I 0, sophomore Clarence Hanley is the biggest man on the Old Dominion roster. Averaging 9.2 points a game, Hanley moves very well for a big man and should give Kempton quite a workout in his first game back. 


ALEXIAN 
BROfHER ... 
In the 
HealthCare Ministry" 

"I am an Alexian Brother. I want to be present sharing my faith in special service to others, reflecting God's Healing Care and Message." 
Committed to Christ.•• 
through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and the unwanted . 
• 
ADMINISTRATION. NURSING. CLERICAL. TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE. X-RAY. LABORATORY. ENGINEERING 

• 
MAINTENANCE. SOCIAL SERVICES • PUBLIC RELATIONS 

• 
PHARMACY. COMMUNITY HEALTH. REHABILITATION, 


lbuan become 
an 
Alexian 
Brother! 
A Religious Community of Men 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
e Previous experience in journalism is not required, but applicants should be familiar with the elements of style in the English language, with good grammar and with current campus and world news. 
e Both jobs are paid positions which require working one night per week. 
e Submit application and personal statement to Mark Worscheh by 5 p.m. today_ For more information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Buy  
Observer  
Oassifieds  


4 
' 
Iaman 
and more. ••nonouuu WRITE FOR INFORMATION • noun••••• 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers 
600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 
Please send morl' iniormatoon at no obligatoon. 
Name _________________________________ 
Address-----------
Cih _________________StJte________ Zip 

INTERESTED IN BEING A PART OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEXT YEAR?  
Applications and job descriptions are now available for Executive Coordinators and Freshman Orientation Committee and can be picked up in the Student Govt. Offices 2nd Floor LaFortune  
I  Deadline: Friday, March 16 QUESTIONS? Call Rob at 1088 or Cathy at 1334  
There Is Still Time To Join The BALLROOM DANCE CLASS  
Time-Wednesday, March 14 from 6:30pm-8pm Place -Regina Hall Basement Lounge on Saint Mary's Campus Teacher ­Ray Sexton from Indianapolis Cost -$20 for 4 weeks (skip Spring Break)  
Ifyou would like to join this class, you can register at the first lesson  
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STU­DENTS ONLY.  


539.50 
Soft Contacts 
With this coupon save on soft contact lenses. This special price 
includes a travel chem-care kit. Toric, extended wear and other 
special lenses not included. Coupon and student 1faculty
I identification must be presented at time of order. 
I No other discounts apply. 
I 
I 
I 
South Bend: Scottsdale Mall 291-2222 
I 
I C\ 1r Elkhart: Concord Mall 875-7 472 
I
I Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Mall Hours 11•-;c •;J 
I ~PROFESSIONAL EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE BV 
L _____.::::~=S!!I~==~r:.:~~--~-~J 
..•. ••£····· .. --... ---------... ---------····-·---.-....._______ .... ··---~---·---..... -·-. 
·---~-·-·-··---~---~-~----------------------~-----------~~---··--·----· 
~«:)cj[C3L~-----------------------------------W--ed_n_e_~_a_y,_M_~_c_h_1_4_,_19-8-4---p-~-e-7
Bloom Connty 
YA kNOW, ~l.LA5... THe fr'iN IN MY Vlfle05 A~ lfi,Y... I ON/..Y 'THE THICKEST, AIN'f A Pr<IMf.·CUr HUNkS. HRMBVR~. I WONVER IF YOU TUR80. 

Mellish 

Guindon 
5PE:I\KIN6 OF HP.M8/JRG6R5•. MAY.% W€ 5HOUW CHECK MY UNI?f:R YOUR BUN. WHAT? 


Richard Guindon 

On the other hand, atatlc cllna allows you to .... your clothes directly on the wall. 
Berke Breatht:rl 
SAY... 

WH!fT'S SHE 
WHtR€'5 WHAT? 
WH&R£'5 ?! /Ill)(IN' 
me eF;eF? 
ll80VT?
I 
11f Utf·. 

Dave 

The Far Side Gary larson 

"Oh, that's right! You DID have a hat ... I believe you'H find it in the other room." 
32 Fortifica-49 Procedure
The Daily Crossword 
tion 50 Metal fabric
34 "MarchACROSS 33 Root or 52 Undoing 5 Whalebone 51 Similar
King" 5 Fatm 34 Antitoxins 57"-of a word 
1 Vapor Yale 56 Collection 6 Nautical 
37 Mine 52 Paintingbundles 35 Adolescent Tub" 7 Latvian vehicles cult10 Moslem problem 59 Off-Broad-8 Inventor 40 Whinesjudge 36 Sunburn way prize Whitney 53 Rose's boy­14 One of the 42 Caution friend9 Dispatched
Aleutians 37 Sycophant 60 Actor 43 Style of 54 Rims
10 Treewith
38 Laid low Jannings expression
long pods 15 White 39 Language 61 Kind of 11 To -(unan-55 Majors and 
45 Dernier­
poplar structure 
scanner imously) Meriwether
46 Crouches16 Infamous units: suff. 62 Readyfor with fear Ugandan plucking 
48-bear 58 Faucet
17 Via's kin 12 --a-ling
41 "-Britan­
18 Admit 13 Stygian
nia"
19 Warvessel 63 Enclosures 21 Cordon­
42 Poznan's 23 Comeinfor swine river first64 Mast and 20 Musical boomstart 44 Blue 65 Clutter 25 Throng
22 Nasal 24 Middle sch. 46 Swerve 
26 Entertained 25 "-to thee, crazily 27 San Antonio blithe 47 LaDouce DOWN landmark spirit!" 1 Servant 2 "Tell-to 28 Thew 48 Coastline the Marines" 29 Divided up 26 Seat belt feature 3 Meat dish 30 Earth 

Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Natural Killer Cells," Dr. Yoon Kim, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•2:30 
p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs Purdue, Courtney Courts 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Stages in the Development of Newton's Principia," Prof. Richard S. Westfall, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "On Conjectures of Segal, Serri, and Sullivan," Prof. Haynes Miller, 226 CCMB 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Z-ONA and The Regulation of Gene Expression," Dr. Alexan­der Rich, 127 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -BiologySeminar, "Surface Antigens on Schistosomes: Immunological Aspects," Dr. Eugene G. Hayunga, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Lady from Shanghai," O'Shaughnessy Loft 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Kennedy Assassination and Warren Commission, Prof. Blakely, 104 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Pre Law Society, 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, Graduate Piano Recital, Elizabeth Weisbrod, Annenberg Auditorium 


TV Tonight . 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 

16 MASH 
22 PM Magazine 
28 joker's Wild 
34 Contemporary Health Issues 
16 Barney Miller 
22 Family Feud 
28 Wheel ofFortune 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Real People 22 One Day at a Time 
28 Fall Guy 
34 Smithsonian World 
22 Mama Malone 
16 Facts oflife 
22 Wednesday Night Movie 
28 Dynasty 
16 Night Court 
16 St. Elsewhere 28 Hotel 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Indiana Lawmakers 
admonition 49 Certain 4 "Asoft pigment 
© 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
29 Deluge language answer-..." 31 Synchronize 
All Rights Reserved 3114184 
CI""~J"'~~~~J"'...c:Y~..oo'"'~JO""~ 
IRISH GARDENS ANNOUNCES: 
~. ·.: Complete.Range of Floral se ~~ces To.,_. 1; ~~~~ Ch1cagoland..1 ~~ 
• 
$27.50 for 1 dozen roses boxed and delivered! 

• 
Sr. Formal Specials Del'd anywhere in Chicago 

• 
Next Day Delivery in most cases! ~~ _~ ,." ~ 

• 
Many other offers available! ~ . ff, 


For details, see us in LaFortune Basement Today or ca/1283-6867 Hrs: 12:30-5:30 Mon-Sat 
Q 
*Delivery to Chicago and 11 0 Suburbs! 


s  /  ,. B.\~R  Beer Special  ~  
D.J.  Bar will be  II  
Brian Callaghan  closed Fri. and Sat.  ~  

~:OC:.OQOQC)Oo""~~...cc--~.;er.r~.r~.r..r.r...c:r...co-~.r.r...c:r~j
~~JC~~~~~cc~xx~~cco~~~~~~~~~~Q8 
' 
jim Dolan and his Irish teammates will meet Old ing injuries to several players. For more information Dominion tonight in a first-round NIT game at the on Dolan and tonight'sgame, see the related stories on ACC. The Irish seem to be back atfull strengthfollow-thispage. The Observer/Paul Cifarelli 
Healthy Irish ready to take on Old Dominion tonight at ACC 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Editor 
Rumor has it that Notre Dame bas­ketball coach Digger Phelps plans to set up a MASH unit at the ACC in the ncar future. Considering all the in­jury problems that Phelps' team has 
encountered this season, it may not be a bad idea 
However, it also may be a little late. Notre Dame, it appears, will finally be ncar full strength tonight when it faces the Monarchs of Old Dominion at 8 p.m. in the ACC. 
For this first-round NIT game, Tim Kempton will return to the line-up after nearly a five week absence. Al­though Notre Dame's "rock" inside will not start the contest, Phelps has indicated that he will go with Kempton a'i much as the big red­head's endurance and the after­effects of his hairline fracture permit. 
Joe Howard's ankle condition was still in question yesterday, but it was expected that he would be able to play tonight Similarly, Jim Dolan's bad ba<:k was not expected to keep him out. 
The only Irish player who definitely will not sec any action against Old Dominion, and perhaps throughout the the rest ofthe season for that matter, isjojo Buchanan. His recurring tendinitis ha'i flared up, and, according to Phelps, the problem may be something that Buchanan will have to face during his entire career. 
The key for the Irish will be regaining the form they had when Kempton was playing. A legitimate contender for the NCAA Tourna­ment at 14-5 with Kempton, Notre Dame has since slumped without the sophomore center, going only 3­6 in his absence. 
Old Dominion is not a team to be written off at first glance. The Monarchs, obviously, must have somethinggoing for them since they were able to make the NIT Tourna­ment and crack a 32-team field that Phelps has compared to some of the NIT's best. 
"We are a semi-young team this year," says Old Dominion coach Paul Webb of his 19-11 Monarchs, "in that we don't have a scholarship senior on the team, so we are primarily a junior and sophomore squad. 
"We have good quickness and good team speed which we're going 
to have to utilize at both ends of the 
floor," continues Webb, one of the 
I 0 a ll-time winningest coaches in 
college basketball with 492 wins. 
"We're not big, but our size is ade­
quate if we work to keep people off 
the boards and from going inside 
against us very often." 
Based on the size of the Monarch front line (they are 6-4, 6-8, 6-10 up front), on paper it would seem that the Irish should have few problems outrebounding Old Dominion the way they have the vast majority of teams they've played this year. What kind of job Notre Dame does on the boards probably will be decided by how badly the Irish players want tonight's game. 
Because they've been resigned to the fact that they would be in the NIT and not in the NCAA's for so long, the players seem to have a bet­ter attitude this year than last. Last March, the team almost expected to be extended an NCAA bid, which never came. 
The Irish went to Chicago to play Northwestern in the first round of the NIT, still feeling sorry for them­selves, and it showed in the game. 
see ODU, page 6 
Sophomore adds consistency 
Dolan fits utility role well 
ByPHRWOLF 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team takes the floor tonight against Old Dominion in the first round of the NIT, many eyes will be on Tom Sluby, the Irish scoring leader, Tim Kempton, the veteran center returning to the lineup, and Joe Howard, the exciting point guard. 
Another player who is certain to make his presence known to the Monarchs, if not also to the fans, is Jim Dolan. 
The 6-8, 220-pound sophomore, the only player who has started every game for the Irish this year, is not known for flashy play. Rather, he is the solid front-line player on whom Digger Phelps knows he can count for passing, rebounding, and strong defense whenever it is necded. 
"Jimmy Dolan has probably been the most consistent player on the team," Phdps says. "He's just a very intelligent player on the floor. He 
handles the ball well in pressure. "The guy who's the vocal and silent leader is jimmy Dolan." 
Dolan ha'i responded well to his coach's expectations this season. At the basketball team's banquet on March '5, he accepted the awards for most assists ( 84) and most rebounds on the team ( 7.4 per game). 
In addition, Dolan was rewarded for being the Best Defensive Player of the Year. The defensive award is appropriate for Dolan who was a key to Notre Dame's shutting down several high-scoring forwards this year. 
About the only criticism of Dolan that one ever hears is that he is too slow. The big forward himself prefers to say, "I pace myself" 
"Even though I'm slow, I make up for it by knowing where to run ­where to cut the person off, instead of just chasing him," Dolan explains. 
Phelps agrees that Dolan knows how to make up for his lack ofspeed. 
"From foul line to foul line, he's the slowest guy in the nation," Phelps says. "But foul line to basket, 
he's probably the smartest guy 
playing the game." 
Dolan says it was not difficult for 
him to adjust to his role as utility 
player for the Irish, since he was ex­
pected to do many different things 
in high school as well. Also, Phelp's 
conservative style ~fplay fit him per­
fectly. 
"I'm suited for his style," Dolan 
says. "I can run and gun, but I'll be 
throwing the outlets and everybody 
else will run. His offense and defense 
is slow, and it's perfect for me." 
The one thing Dolan says he wants to improve on a little is his scoring. He averaged 6. 3 points per game as a freshman and 7. 7 point~ per contest this year -good enobgh to rank him fourth in scoring on this year's 
squad -and he would like to con­tinue to score more in the future. 
The more Dolan improves in the next two years, the happier Digger Phelps will be. He will have a utility player who can pass, rebound, shoot, and play defense. Acoach can ask for little more than that. 
Wednesday, March 14, 1984 -page 8 
'March Madness' returns with NIT 
Irish Items 
While the Fighting Irish would rather be involved in the "Battle for Seattle," Digger Phclps'squad must be ready when the "Grappk 
for the Big Apple" begins tonight. The Monarchs of Old Dominion pay a visit to the ACC at 8 p.m., with the winner advancing to second­
round NIT action on Sunday or Monday. 

The first question that came to mind when the NIT selection com­
mittee announced the pairings was "Old Dominion? Why?". 
However, fans should quickly get the notion out of their heads that 
just because they have never heard of the Monarchs, this game will 
be a cakewalk. Old Dominion holds a better record than Notre Dame 
and has won seven of its last nine games, including impressive vic­
tories over NCAA-bound Alabama-Birmingham and Virginia Com­
monwealth. 
Prepare yourselves for red-white-and-blue basketballs and 
45-second clocks -"March Madness" is here! 
Freeby's Fearless Forecast ... Before we look at tonight's con­
test, let's take a look at this year's NCAA tournament. Everybody likes 
to try to predict who is going to win it all. but that is a little foolish at 
this stage of the game, so let's take a look at one man's opinion on 
who will win the regionals. 
East ... No question here -you hav to go with the top-seeded 
Tarhcels of North Carolina. Sure, Arkansas beat Dean Smith's squad 
earlier this year, but it won't happen twice. 
Mideast ... Ordinarily, I would be tempted to go with Lou Hen­
son's Illinois club, but see where the regional semifinals and finals 
will be held -Lexington, Kentucky. Sec who is the top seed ­
Kentucky. See Joe B. Hall smile. See the Wildcats in Seattle. 
Midwest . . . By far, this is the toughest region in the field. 
Everyone would like to see Depaul and Ray Meyer win in his final 
year, and you also have to watch out for a brilliant Houston club 
(brilliant not meant in the academic sense -Guy Lewis hasn't 
graduated a player since Don Chaney in 1969). However, for some 
reason, the crystal ball sees Purdue wearing Cinderella's slipper to 
the Kingdome. 
West .. _By far, the weakest regional. Big East commissioner Dave 
Gavitt took good care of Georgetown by sending them out to Los 
Angeles, and the Hoyas will move up the coast to Seattle. But watch 
out ...Jerry Tarkanian and the Runnin' Rebels ofUNLV could be the 
surprise of the field. 
And Now the NIT . . . Unfortunately, you can't spend time 
predicting NIT brackets, because pairings are made arbitrarily and 
capriciously. There are several good teams in this field, and the Irish 
are probably near the top of the pack. If you arc looking for a pre­
tourney favorite, how about Lamar? The Cardinals arc 25-4 and 
should have made the NCAA's. 
Nevertheless, Notre Dame has as good a chance as anyone. Upsets 
can happen in abundance in this tournament, as the Irish proved in 
1973 when they knocked off USC, Louisville, and North Carolina to 
advance to the final game. That's when Bobby Stevens hit a jumper at 
the buzzer to give Virginia Tech a 92-91 overtime victory over Notre 
Dame to win the championship. A similar performance in 1984 
would certainly be a boost to this young Irish squad for next sca'ion. 
Monitoring the Monarchs ... Balance is the key for this Old 
Dominion club, which finished with a 19-11 record and a fourth­
place standing in the Sun Belt Conference. The backcourt is strong 
with 6-3 guards Keith Thomas and Charlie Smith doing a yeoman's 
share ofthe work. Thomas averages 14. I points per game, and is the 
man Monarch mentor Paul Webb would most like to see at the foul 
line at the end of the game. Smith, meanwhile, pumps in II.7 points 
an outing from his guard slot, where he also directs the ODU attack. 
Up front, small forward Mark Davis paces the Monarch scoringattack 
with a 14.2 average, while 6-8 forward Kenny Gattison leads the 
team in rebounding, while pumping in an average of 11.1 points per 
game. 
Between the high-scoring potential of the Monarchs and the 4'5­second clock that will be used throughout the tourney, the Irish will have their hands full trying to play defense. However, there is one consolation for Notre Dame in that Old Dominion is also a deplorable team away from the Scope Arena, posting a meager 4-8 record away from home. 
Eyeing the Irish ... Digger Phelps no longer has to ask "Wherc's the Beef?", because the beefis back. Tim Kempton will return to the Irish roster tonight, and he will see-some playing time.Joe Howard is probable for tonight's game, despite an ankle injury. He will be needed badly in light of JoJo Buchanan's questionable status for tonight's contest. 
No matter who is in the lineup, the Irish will be spending most of the evening trying to get the ball in the hands of Tom Sluby. The s~;;ni,or cap.t.am out of Gonzaga High School in Washington, D.C. has been all-everything for the Irish this season, pumping in I 8.2 points per game_ Sluby cannot do it alone. however. The Irish front line must play its kind of game, dominating the boards and supplying scoring support. If the Irish play to their capabilities, they should come away with a victory, but it won't be ea~y. 

