Barroom rape -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 11 5 the: indc:pcndc:nt ~tudc:nt ncw~papc.:r ~crYing notn dame and .,aint man ~ TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1984 


Disputes, runoff in Salvadoran vote 
Associated Press Duarte said his party estimates 30 to 35 percent of the people who 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador -tried to vote could not because of Unofficial returns yesterday showed irregularities. mainly bureaucratic moderate Jose Napoleon Duarte bungling. leading in El Salvador's first President Reagan called the elec· presidential election in seven years, tion "another victory for freedom but he appeared likely to face a over tyranny ..Those valiant runoff with right-wing candidate people braved guerrilla violence Roberto d'Aubuisson. and sabotage to do what we take for 
The results. counted by Duarte's granted -ca~ting their vote ..." own Christian Democratic Party. Most disruptions were in the were similar to estimates given by province of San Salvador and may 
U.S. observers who said they were have kept the party from passing the based on unofficial data from the 50 percent mark, Duarte said. The Central Election Council. party is strong in the province, 
The official count, stalled in a which has about 25 percent of the dispute at the election computer country's eligible voters. center, resumed yesterday and the Christian Democrats' figures council promised first results last showed them with 47.3 percent of 

Members ofthe panel at last nighrs town meeting on Kenney, Walton Collins, john Gilligan, and john 
night. Final results may not be the vote, with about half the 

non-nuclear proliferation field questions from the Lewis. The event took place in the Centerfor Continu­
known until later this week. country's precincts reporting.

audience. From left to right are Lewis A. Dunn, Paul ing Education. Story on this page. 
"Seventy-five percent of the D'Aubuisson's Republican people voted against d'Aubuisson, Nationalist Alliance had 28.7 per­against the death squads, against the cent and Francisco Jose Guerrero's violence of the extreme right and National Conciliation Party, 16.4 the extreme left and against the percent.

Hart expected to take Connecticut 
guerrillas," Duarte said. The official tabulation was D'Aubuisson denies any link to suspended Sunday night in a dispute Associated Press thus make a clean sweep of New get out of there. I'm not going to the death squads blamed for many of between the Christian Democrat on England. pick sides." the killings in El Salvador's 4 years of the elections council. Roberto Meza 
On the eve of the Connecticut In New York yesterday, Hart Hart wants U.S. troops out of the civil war. He favors crushing the Delgado. and the head technician at primary, Gary Hart accused Walter lumped Mondale's Central area. Mondale says they should be guerrillas militarily; Duarte favors the tabulation center, Morgan Bojor­Mondale yesterday of having a American policies with those of reduced, but a U.S. military presence negotiations. The leftists call the quez, whom Meza accused offavor· Central American policy that would President Reagan: "If the Mondale helps in talks with Nicaragua. elections a "furce" and did not par· ing d'Aubuisson. lead to U.S. bloodshed in the area policy or the Reagan policies arc References to John Kennedy ticipate. Meza ordered Bojorquez out of The Rev. Jesse Jackson promised to followed, not only will this country cropped up again, but now it was Julio Adolfo Rey Prendes, the the computation center, a spokes­end poverty in America in three light a fuse or continue to ignite a Mondale who invoked his name. Christian Democrats' secretary· man said, and put in two armed years by diverting funds for fuse leading toward an explosion in Hart has been accused of imitating general said, "We still have hopes for guards to keep him out. The other weapons. that region, I am absolutely con­JFK's style. a first-round victory but I personally technicians also left. shutting the 
Democratic presidential can­vinced in this decade we will see the Mondale said he would follow think we will get just over 48 per­center. Counting resumed yester­didates spent yesterday last-minute loss, the rather large loss, of Kennedy's lead in working for new cent ofthe vote." day. campaigning in Connecticut, with American lives in that region." weapons testing treaties: "John Ken­If neither gets more than half, U.S. observers projected a total 52 delegates at stake in today's nedy did something unilaterally there will be a runoff between the vote of 1.3 million out of 1.8 million voting. He cited what he called Mondale's temporarily" in halting tests of top two. Some express concern that eligible Salvadorans, or about a 70 
Virginia Democrats, meanwhile, late call for withdrawal from Sout­nuclear weapons in the atmosphere. a contest between the bitter rivals percent turnout. were set last night to complete heast Asia in the 1970s, saying "It worked. Within two months we Duarte and d'Aubuisson could fur. caucuses that began Saturday. Mondale's view of Central America · had a test-ban treaty." ' ther promote instability. see ELECTION, page 3 
Jackson surprised Democratic is "part of a pattern stretching back leaders there with his slim lead in to Vietnam, a willingness to wait for the popular vote in weekend voting, consensus to form and then moving although Mondale held a slight out in front ofit." 

Nuclear non-proliferation subject 
delegate edge. The caucuses all­Mondale, in Manhattan, said the ocate 68 of78 delegates. United States should let Central In Connecticut, polls put Hart in a Americans make their own choices: 

of town meeting last night in CCE 
strong position to win the state and "Forces ofall the big powers should 

Wilkins named editor of Dome for next year 
By MARK WORSCHEH the yearbook staff and "overall, Managing Editor the feeling that he's responsible enough to handle it." 
Mike Wilkins, a junior from Wilkins says his first priority Fort Wayne, Ind.. has been will be finding a staff. "Right now chosen editor of the Dome for we only have one other returning 1984-85. section editor, leaving almost I 0 

spots to fill," he says. 
A book "that has a lot of im­pact" is the goal Wilkins has set to accomplish next year. Big pictures and "lots of faces that jump out at you" he says will be a major part of the Dome. 
Wilkins is most impressed with the professionalism of the staff. "For such a big project and with so few people, it's very profes­sional. It's one of the best around," he says. 
An American Studies major,

Mike Wilkins 
Wilkins served the Dome as 

W ilkms, editor of the sports editor of the academics section section this year, succeeds Jane last year. In addition, he worked Bennett. for The Observer as an assistant 
In making the selection, Ben­news editor and a senior staff nett cited Wilkins' experience 011 reporter in 1982. 
By MARK POTTER nuclear weapons stems from the Apanel representing the Michiana StaffReporter possible spread ofthese weapons in· community responded to Dunn's to conflict areas in the world. He statements and fielded questions Can the United States trust the cited the current war between Iran from the audience. The panel con­Soviet Union? and Iraq as an example of a conflict sisted of former Governor of Ohio This and other questions on how 
John Gilligan, Dr. Paul Kenney, a to survive in a world with nuclear Professor of High Energy Physics at weapons were raised last night at a Notre Dame, and Dr. John Lewis, a town meeting on nuclear non­professor of Political Science at In­proliferation at the Center for diana University. Walton Collins, Continuing Education. editor of Notre Dame Magazine, 
"How to live with nuclear moderated the program. weapons over centuries, not just Dunn said we must remember we years is one of man's greatest are imperfect creatures livng in an problems, which is why we must be imperfect world. which is why concerned about nuclear non­nuclear non·proliferation is so im­proliferation," said Dr. Lewis A. portant. He said. "There is always Dunn, assistant director for Nuclear the possibility that a crazy or un­and Weapons Control of the United stable person or government could State's Arms Control and Disar­acquire a nuclear weapon and usc it; manent Agency. Dunn was the key however we are working to make speaker at the meeting which was that chance more remote." sponsored by the South Bend League 
of Women Voters. Dunn commented on President Dunn said he believes nuclear Reagan's current concern about arms control is more than just arms strategic defense systems, such as 
limitation agreements between the the Anti-Ballistic Mi~sile system and
Dr. Lewis A. Dunn 

U.S. and the Soviets; nuclear non­the so-called Star Wars laser systems, proliferation is also an essential ele­that could escalate dangerously if after the meeting. He said Reagan is ment of nuclear arms control. "It is either nation acquires nuclear concerned about the ability of the 
important that non-proliferation weapons. He added, however, "I United States to survive a nuclear at­doesn't become a less important believe that it is very unlikely that tack because he knows that we part ofarms control," he said. either Iran or Iraq could get nuclear know have to live with nuclear 
Dunn said the greatest threat of weapons." weapons for centuries. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 27, 1984 -page2 


In Brief . 
Third-year law student Christopher Kuner ren:ntly rn:dvnl a scholarship from the German Academic Ex­dlange Service ( DAAD) fi.1r I 0 months of study in Cologne, West (;t·rmany, beginning in October, 1984. Kuner, who is one of ap­proximately '\0 students in the United States to receive such an award, will umdul't research at the Institute for Foreign and Interna­tional Private Law of the University ofCologne.-The Observer. 
Charges of murder and attempted murder were tiled yesterday against Indiana state trooper Jerry W. Cliver in con­nection the with the fatal shooting of a Linton man and the policeman's former wife. Police have been seeking Cliver, 30, since Friday night when he allegedly broke through the door of his ex­wife's Dugger house and shot her and then shot and killed her com­panion. -AP 
Forty cases of AIDS in 10 cities have been traced through sexual contacts to a homosexual man who may have been a carrier of the disease, spreading it across the country without knowing he had it. The man had sex with eight victims of acquired immune deficiency syndrome -four in Los Angeles and four in New York, according to an investigation by the Centers for Disease Con­trol. Those eight in turn had contact with others, and the chain of contact ultimately spread to San Francisco, Florida, Georgia, Texas, Pennsylvania and New Jersey-10 cities in all. Identification of the AIDS duster is li.Irther evidence for the belief AIDS is caused by an inf(:ctious agent, said William Darrow, the head ofthe CDC team that trackc:d down the: cases. -AP 
A fresh report of possible quality-control 
trouble at the Diablo Canyon atomic power plant forced postpone­ment yesterday of a Nuclear Regulatory Commission vote on start­ing the oft-delayed California reactor. Quality control problems with tht· hundreds of miles of pipes in the plant may be worse than thought, lsa Yin, a Chicago-based NRC inspector, told a startled com­mission. prompting the NRC to delay a vote whether to allow a low­power startup at one of tht· Diablo Canyon reactors near San Luis Obispo, Calif. -AP 
Middle-aged men who are heavy smokers will suffer an average of S'\9,000 each in extra medical bills and lost earnings during their lifetimes, according to a study of the hidden costs of cigarenes. Making up this loss for all smokers would require an addi­tional tax of S3 on every pack of cigarettes, the researchers con­duded. "We likent·d every smoker to a gambler," said Gerry Oster, a medical economist. "And we wanted to estimate he likely amount of money every smoker should expect to lose in the lottery that he or she is playing with his or her life." The study conducted at Policy Analysis Inc., a Brookline, Mass. firm that researches 'health cost issues, was released yesterday at a meeting of the American College ofCardiology in Dallas. -AP 
Of Interest 
"Yes" concertt"lCketS go on sale tomorrow morning at 9 at tht· Student linion ticket offkt·. All seats are SI2.SO. The tick­ets will bt· sold on a first come, first serve basis and will be available tomorrow ami Thursday. -The Obserr,er 
Greyhound Lines has announced a major new dis­count fare program fi1r college students. The special college fare program provides a I'\ percent discount off standard fares for col­lege students at sdectt·d campuses nationwide and is good now through June IS. To take advantage of the discount, customers must pn·sc:nt a valid studt·nt identification card. For more information, travelers are advised to contact their local Greyhound office. -The 
Obserr'er. 

Weather 
It may have been sunnyin 
Ft. l.auderdak, hut it will bt· cloudy and cool today in South Bend with a j() pnn·nt chance of light rain or Wl't snow. lligh in low to mid -lOs. Cloudy and cold tonight with a '\0 percent d1ance of light snow and a low around 30. Snow, windy and colder tomorrow with a high in the mid jOs. W ekomt' back. -7be Obserr,er 

The Observer 
The Obst'rvt'r (I -~ <;<)') 2-tOOO l " rn•hli!-thnl .\1tmdJ} throu~h l·riday Jlld on homt· foorhall 'Jturdap•. t':w.t.'c.:pt during t·xam Jnd \·acuion pt·riod!oo The Oh!tervcr i!'t puhh,ht·d h~·tht· !'ttut.km,of lht· t mn·r!'till of ~nlrc l>amc: and ~Jinl \l.1r(!'t ( ollq~t· ~uh!'tt. nptlon"' 111.1\ ht· purdliiM'll ror !o.!~ pt:r ~ t•ar ( s I 'i per 
't·mc..·!'ttt·r) h\ "riltnfi( The Obsener, P 0 Box l.}. ~orrt·l>anu·. hullana ·f(l.c;c;h 
'lbt· Ob~eiTer '~a mt·mht·r ot The A:tt· sociated Press. All rqnoc.Jw..'IHH1 nght!'t an· rt"'t·rn·d. 
Today's issue wa!-1 produced hy: 
lh!siMII Editor. .. ...... Chrb Bowlt·r Oesign Assistant... . .......... John Menndl l<~J·ou/.1'/tl[f.. .... l'r>nk llt"Marco Tina \X'ilkrquist Sharon Markert Stacey Prunt·Mi 
1')'/JeS<•IIer....... ............... llillllighduchl'l'k NL,tt'S Editor....... . ......... Amy Stl·phen l.opy Editor ............... Tcs~ Guarino Spurts Copy l:'tlilor... .. .... Phil Wolf Vfeu•point Lt~)·out..... . .. P:llll Hrucc SO O<IJ' Editor..... .. .. Melinda Moor<" \,\1(' Dt~l' t:tlilor. .......... Maggie 0'(:onndl All Oe;·i!(fl.............. .. Mary bsrndar Pb(J(CJJ!.rapber....... . ...... Pete l.al·ht·~ 
Tl'{Jist....... ................ llilllli!(hdudu·ck 



'Belles' of Saint Mary's sound out of tune to some 
Belle (bel) n. a pret~)' woman orgirl. 
Webster's definition may be generally accepted, but it doesn't tell the whole story. Unfortunately the word belle not only describes a pretty girl or woman, but also the name ofSaint Mary's athletic teams. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can be accused of clinging to archaic ideas and stereotypes, most ofwhich students are well aware of. Saint Mary's, however, per­petuates traditional prejudices by hanging on to the nickname, "belle." Yet few have commented on this nickname, surely one of the most obsolete customs at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. 
The word belle has absolutely nothing to do with ath­letics or Saint Mary's College in general. For most people the word belle conjures up images of Scarlett O'Hara lookalikes from down South. Since this happens to be the heart ofthe Midwest, not Atlanta, Georgia, that description does not make much sense. 
One could try to be cute, as many do, and refer to the old Bing Crosby movie, "The Bells of Saint Mary's." However, this is 1984, Bing Crosby has nothing to do with Saint Mary's and never did. In fact, many poor, mis­guided souls around here 
have  never  heard  of  the  
movie.  
So,  why  not  a  name  
change  for  Saint  Mary's  

teams? Such a change could cause Saint Mary's athletes to breathe a collective sigh of relief. 
It is difficult to be taken seriously when one is playing as a "belle." Come on, how intimidating can an althlete with the name "helle" be to other teams? 
Just imagine the other teams in their locker rooms: "Boy, those belles look tough tonight!" or "Hey, remember to watch out for belle number 12." 
Saint Mary's has long suffered from its stereotype as a college for husband-hunting females. Administrators and students deny this, and few put much stock in this worn prejudice. Most Saint Mary's women would be very upset, and with just cause, if accused of being mainly concerned with how they.appear to males. 
Yet this school promoting professional, practical and superior education for women, calls its athletic teams a group of"pretty women or girls." 
Assuming Saint Mary's athletic teams don't consider themselves better-looking than other teams, why does their name convey that? It comes across as a bit pretentious. Why should our teams be saddled with a name that seems to promote them as the best-looking team? 
Observer note
-----------------, 
The Observer is always looking for new talent. If 
you are interested in newspaper writing or 
newspaper production, stop up at The Observer 
office on the 3rdfloor ofthe LaFortune Student 
Center 

1/wzd ()~zci&t !<~ 
SYMBOL ... "OF THE MAN WHO RECEIVES IN GIVING" 



FRANCISCANS 
DIRECTOR OF VOCATIONS, FRANCISCANS, TOR 2006 EDGEWATER PARKWAY SILVER SPRING, MARYLAN'P. 20903
. ,, Please send me th'e free bookTh! at no ol.11~~iation. 
1 0 nt. , 
NO

Name ·---­
Address 

City State Zip_____ (Check preference) Priesthood ___ Brotherhood 
Theresa Guarino 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Tuesd 


What kind of image does this present to othet schools, and to Saint Mary's students themselves? They are consistently told they are the women leaders of tomorrow, future heads ofbusiness and industry. Some­how pretty women or girls as a lone description does not convey this idea 
Saint Mary's is not the only team suffering with a name which has nothing to do with the team or school itself. How about the Purdue Boilermakers, Old Dominions's Monarchs, or the Akron Zips? The name 
"Fighting Irish" can be called unusual or interesting if nothing else. 
But what if the Irish were called the "Fighting Beaus." You laugh, but beau happens to be the male equivalant of belle. I 
The biggest problem with the name Saint Mary's Belles is the lack of respect it com­mands. Saint Mary's athletes work hard, and they certain­ly deserve respect, especial­ly since the Saint Mary's community generally gives them little attention. A name change will probably not prompt a change in stu­dents' attitudes, hut it can only help. 

Saint Mary's athletes and non-athletes alike should band together to choose and demand a suitable new name. There are many possibilities: mme contests, prizes. 
The name belle is one archaic tradition that deserves to die a quick, painless death. 

is accepting applications for the positions of 
Assistant Features Editor 
and 

Features Copy Editor 
Submit resume to Mary Healy The Observer Office, 3rd Floor Lafortune 
Deadline: 5 p.m. Wednesday, March28 
young men 16-35 


The Observer Tuesday, March 27, 1984 -page3 
Four immigrants sentenced despite 


protest as barroom rape trial ends 
Associated Press 
FALL RIVER, Mass. -Four men convicted of gang-raping a woman on a barroom pool table were sen­tenced yesterday to 6-12 years in prison by a judge who said they "brutalized a defenseless young woman and sought to degrade and destroy her human, individual dig­nity." 
The victim's lawyer said afterward that the 22-year-old mother of two feared for her safety and had moved permanently from the area. 
"There were five sentences in this case -one of them exile," said her lawyer, Scott Charnas. 
Superior Court Judge William Young imposed terms of 9 to 12 years on Daniel Silva, 27, Victor Raposo, 23, and John Cordeiro, 24. Young sentenced Joseph Vieira. 28, 

Election 
continuedjrompage 1 
[ 
Earlier, the elections council put the number of eligible voters at 2.5 million and predicted a turnout of 
1.8 million. The difference of 700,000 eligible voters was not im­mediately explained. 
The United States, chief backer of El Salvador against the rebels. gave SIO million to help pay for the com-to 6 to 8 years. Bristol County Dis­trict Attorney Ronald Pina sought a lesser sentence for Vieira, saying he had no prior record and that the woman's testimony that he was directly involved in the rape was not corroborated. 
The maximum penalty for ag­gravated rape is life imprisonment. 
Several hundred stood quietly outside the century-old courthouse. The silence erupted into shouts of "Let them go!" The defendants, all Portuguese immigrants, are backed by many in their community who feel they were treated unfairly be­cause oftheir national origin. 
All the sentences will be served at the maximum-security Walpole State Prison. Under state law Vieira must serve at least four years; the others face at least six years before being eligible for parole. 
puter and make registration lists. The 30 U.S. observers were among 28 foreign delegations here. 
House Majority Leader Rep. Jim Wright, D-Texas, a co-chairman of the U.S. delegation, said a 70 percent turnout would be "highly accept­able ...higher than we have seen in the United States." 
Voting is mandatory here and those who fail to vote can be fined as much as 520, a significant sum in a country where the average annual income in $475. 

"These individuals stand con­victed of most serious crimes: crimes of extreme violence that brutalized a defenseless young woman and sought to degrade and destroy her human, individual dig­nity," the judge said in a memoran­dum accompanying the sentences. "Such crimes warrant a significant sanction." 


APPLICATIONS FOR *Managing Editor *Section Editor Copy Editor for the 1985 DOME are available this week in the Student Activities Office. 
-· belowandforward itto: ReverendJerry Dom. Glenmary HomeMissioners, Box46404, Cincinnati, Ohio45246. 
Name_____________________________________ Age______ College YearofStudy______ 
Address __________________~~---------------­City__________State_____Zip_______ 
Telephone( 

The top Salesperson for your Campus Telephone Directory in 1983 made $5000 for the summer. 
Interested? 
Call University Directories for more information by March 31st. Ask for Barbara Nieukirk. 
1-800-334-4436 
INTERESTED IN BEING A PART OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEXT YEAR? 
Applications and Job Descriptions are now availablefor Student Government CabinetPositions and can be picked up in the Stud. Govt. Offices~ 2nd FloorLaFortune. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY UNDERCLASSMEN ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY 
Deadline Mon., April 2 Questions?? Call Rob at 1088 or Cathy at 1334 
After yourlastexam, whattoughquestions will you stillbe facing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
219-239-6385 


~University Directories 
THE NATIONS LARGEST PUBLISHER OF CAMPUS TELEPHONE OIREC.l OAIE::, A DIVISION lJF VILLAGE PUBLISHING CORPORATION 
P.O. Box 2145 Chapel Hill, N.C. 27515-2145 1-800-334-4436 NC: (919) 968-4801 


Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball will hold a mandatory cap­tains' nH.·t·ting this Sunday, April I, at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Thb is the only time that tournament schedules will be distrihutt·d, and cat:h team will ret:cive only one. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-Up1 
will he held on Saturday, March ~I, at a time and place to be an nounced. Women still may play in the men's tournament. -Th1· Ohsen,er 
CarlVuono and Mark Clementy,seniors on 
the Notrt· Dame hast· hall team, will he the guests tonight on Speak­ing ofSports on WSNI>-AM 64 at 10 p.m. Call in with questions and comments about Irish baseball at 239-6400 or 239-7425. -The Ohsen,er 
Start warming up for the NVA tennis tournament. Each hall may enter one team, and the entry deadline is Wednesday, April 4. More detaib will he given here at a later date. -The Ob­sertJer 
Tuesday, March 27, 1984 -page4 
NIT Roundup 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golfcourse. It is coming up Satur­day, April 14 at I0 a.m. The deadline for entries is Friday, April 6. Rt·gistration must he made in person at the NVA office, and a three­dollar fee will he charged. Trophies and t-shirts will he awarded. ­
The Ohsen,er 
An interhall tennis tournament will be sponsored by NVA on Sunday, April H. Students interested in this all-day event soufd contact their hall athletic commissioner for in­ti>rmation about their hall's team. Rosters must he submitted by 5 p.m. April 4.-The Ohser1'er 
Soccer and Baseball Officials arc needed for 
the NVA spring season. Anyone interested should go to the NVA office at the ACC. -The Ohsen,er 
NVA Aerobics Classes art· now underway at the following times: Mondays and Wnlnesdays at 4 p.m. and 5: l 5 p.m., and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. Classes arc held in Gym Iofthe ACC. -The Ohsen•er 
Aerobic Exercise Instructors for next year 
are being sought by NVA. <)ualitkd applicants should contact the NVA oftkt· this \\'lTk. -lbe Ohsen•er 
. ' .
NVA captams meetmgs ti>r all spring sports will lw hdd this wtTk. Tomon·ou•, rm:n's softball mct:ts at 4:~0 p.m., open soccer at S p.m., and hasehall at 4 p.m. On Thursday, grad softball mtTts at ·I p.m., womt·n's softball at ·1::~0 p.m.. and women',s sonTr at 'i p.m. All mtTtings will he in the football auditorium at the ACC. All teams must han· a rcpresnHativt· prcsnlt. -1be Observer 

B.C. 

SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -For the first time in the tournament, Notre Dame had to play away from home -something which the team had not done very well this season. The game at the "neutral" site of Springfield Coliseum matched the Irish and their "beef," Tim Kempton, against a troubled Boston College squad, whose tri-captain, forward Martin Clark, had recently quit the team. 
The Eagles, led by the high­scoring duo of forward Jay Murphy· and guard Michael Adams, had been 

Pitt 

PIITSBlJRGH -Digger Phelps did not have to ask, "Where's the Beet?" after his squad slowly pounded its way past Pittsburgh and into the NIT Final Four. Using a 37­23 rebounding advantage, with Tim Kempton and Jim Dolan combining for 16 rebounds, the Irish pulled away from their hosts in the final 
Lettuce hear 
from you••• 



Write: 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 


ranked as high as sixth in the nation this season and entered the game as slight favorites. However, Boston College coach Gary Williams and his team were not ready for the two latest additions to the Notre Dame attack, a healthy Kempton and in­credible accuracy from the foul line. Kempton scored 20 points in just 27 minutes of playing time, while the Irish, who had been averaging a weak 65 percent from the charity stripe, nailed 34 oftheir 39 attempts. 
"We tried to pound the ball inside, which Tim Kempton did," said Irish coach Digger Phelps after the game. "With Kempton, we're 16-5. With­out him, we're 3-6. That's all I can say about how important he is to the team." 
"They come in here shooting 65 percent from the line and make H5 
minutes and silenced the sellout crowd at Pitt's tiny Fitzgerald Fieldhouse. 
The key to the victory was Notre Dame's ability to shut down the Pan­ther offense, which likes a fast-paced transition game. By dominating both the offensive and defensive boards, the Irish were able to keep Pitt from beating the defense down the court. A tightly-packed defense also forced the Panthers to shoot just 46 per­cent from the field. 
"The real key to the game was the fact that we couldn't get our running game going in the second half," said Pitt coach Roy Chipman. "Having ro come down and get into a half-court game isn't our style. 
"Notre Dame just kept its poise and we couldn't get them to turn it 
percent tonight," said a frustrated Williams after the game. "It's just so disappointing to outscore them from the field and lose." 
Not only did Boston College score more points ( ~H-32) from the field than Notre Dame did, but also the Irish scored more points from the foul line ( 34) than they did from the field (32 ). 
The key point ofthe game was the middle of the second half. Notre Dame had fallen behind by seven, 39-32, and seemed to be tlounder­ing. However, Kempton and Tom Sluby quickly put the Irish in front by scoring I I of the next I 7 points of the game. The Eagles grabbed their final lead, 51-50, with 3:05 left, but Notre Dame hit 12 of its last I 5 foul shots to blow away the cold­shooting ( 32 percent) Eagles. 
nver late in the g:::me when we were trying to get back into it." 1 
Once again, it was Tom Sluby and Kempton who led the Irish offense. Sluby scored a team-high I H points, while Kempton scored I3. However, it was the performance bf point guard Joe Howard that provided the biggest boost, as he scored I 5 points, most of them late in the game. 
The Panthers moved out to a big 16-7 lead early in the game and held a 3I-2H lead at halftime, largely on the scoring of Clyde Vaughan and George Allen, who had 24 first-half points between them. However, the Irish quickly turned the game around 1n the second half by outscoring Pitt, l 0-1, in the first four minutes of thc half. 
A1TENTION JUNIORS: 
The deadline for signing up for senior portrait has been extended to March3Q 

Sign up in both dining halls during dinner or by calling the DOME (239-7524) evenings between 7 and 9p.m. 
Th(• Obseroer Notrr Damr olfkt:, l()(:att:d on th.: third floor of l.al'ortun.: Student Center. accepts classified advcrti~ing from 9 a.m. until -1 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's office, locatt·d on tht· third floor of tlaggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classified~ is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must h.: prepaid. either in person or hy maiL Charge is I 0 co:nts per five charac






Classifieds 
ters ~r da . 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPIST 277·8534 AFTER 5 30 
"QUEST FOR GOLD" Charily lash1on show sponsored by Jhe Sophomore Class Tuesda{ March 27. 8 00 p m · ACC Monogram Room-$3 00 Trckets a variable at the door 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009 
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082 
Want to get your fingers In shape for those end-of-the-year papers and earn some cash at the same time? You car do both of these by being a Thureda) afternoon typist at the Observer. If yo~ are Interested, call Tom Mowle or the day editor between 1 and 4:30 at 239­5303. 
PROFESSIONAL TYPIST. IBM SELECTRIC II. BUSINESS & ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE. 272-3134. 

LOST/F~UND I 
LOST; STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. ALL WOOL PULLOVER. I LOST IT 2 OR 3 WEEKS AGO tr FOUND. RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND ON FIRST FLOOR OF AD­MIN BLDG OR CALL BUDDY AT 8278 ANYTIME REWARD THANK YOU ST A.PF.U 

LOST: ONE SET OF CAR AND DORM KEYS ON A KOOL-JAZZ KEY RING. CASH REWARD. CALL CHRIS AT 4665. 
LOST NO MENS RING LOST ON 3/15 YELLOW GOLD. BLUE STONE WITH NO ENGRAVED ON TOP MY NAME IS ENGRAVED ON THE INSIDE THERE IS A REWARD FOR ITS RETURN CALL JEFF AT 8854 THANKS 
Lost Brown wallet dunng spnng break Reward II lound call 4570 ask lor Came 

I
FOR RENT 
L--------------' 

HOUSES · FURNISHED· 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 4 6 BDRMS. 2 BATHS CALL 277-3461 
WANTED 

CHOOSE LIFE FOR YOUR BABY! CONSIDER THE OPTION OF ADOP­TIONIINFERTILE COUPLE WANTS TO ADOPT INFANT. WRITE P.O. BOX 5398. FT. WAYNE, IN 46805. 
Needed 2 m;Jers lo Wash.ngl~n DC 3/30­4/1 call Eileen 4159 (SMC} Need nde to U ol Iowa on Fn 3/30 M1ke 8842 
R1de needed to BLOOMINGTON. IN thiS weekend 3/30-4/1 Sean 8464 
Boston area couples are seeking mature persons to help with child care and household responsibilities for one year position In exchange for room, board and wages. Please call Kate Goldfield at 617-862-7982 or write: 283 Marren Road, Lexington, MA02173. 
.__I_F_O_R_SA_LE___J 
Want to know what"s really gotng on tn the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper of the U.S Church. For sub­scnptron rnformallon and a free sample copy. call Paul al277-4851 
FOR SALE GREEN OVERCOAT. 
LARGE. IN VERY GOOD CONDITION MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER­CALL PATTY AT 8654 
BOOTLEG TAPES 277-6398 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM U.S 31 N ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIIIIIII 

Do you have a great sense of humor? Do you think you are tunmer Jhan the average guy on campus? Then share your talents. The Observer features department rs lookrng for humor colum­msts to wnte regularly. For rntormation contact Mary Healy at The Observer office, 3rd Floor of LaFortune 
TOM POWERS IS COMING I 
MOCK CONVENTION '84 

defense platform panel discussion, thursday, 7, esc. 
HAPPY BELATED 20TH BIRTHDAY GREG 
From the quad! 

BALLROOM DANCING BALLROOM DANCING BALLROOM DANCING A, GREAT WAY TO HAVE FUN. CALL TRACY AT 277-7232 OR GINA AT 277­4184 
We m1ss you already. A1m! Get set lor the Cape 1n June... Love. KB. DB. MH. DF. KG. SO. TS. and especially OS (he's lone­ly 1n Baltimore) Theo Majors: Do not miss the special discussion with Father Josef Fuchs, 

S.J. on Wednesday, March 28 at 7:00 PM In room 331 O'Shaughnessy. Fr. Fuchs Is an Internationally recognized expert In Christian athlcs. 
GARY HART GARY HART GARY HART GARY HART GARY HART GARY HART The Gary Hart Mock Convent1on Commit­tee Will Hold An lmportanl Meeting Wed March 28 at 6:30 in Rm. 305 Olton. All Welcome! 
FLORIDA SLAM I ALWAYS FEEL LIKE SOMEBODY·s WATCHING ME. PLAYING TRICKS ON ME 
Di/Mo/our h«Je g~ri"/Fifth What a year! M1ke and Mike somewhere in Ap­palachla;the cars been stolen!;field tnp to PP: the dreaded drawer: heads 1.2.3(repectlvely) Emo­tional Weakhngs,MemphiS·the Hyatt lloor:PSU at PS;isn 't thai sweater ins1de out?:iJ's 3am and I have to soak my loot:Ralferty's 10:00.Corby's 2:00. Den­ny's 3:00;Fratermty Fag Syndrome:Same dorm.. Same floor... Same sect1on ... ?! Happy Belated Birthday D1ane Tile 4 
TOMPC{W_ERS TOMPOWERS 

.... " ............ . BIF & ROOSTED The supenor sex-be lor real. That make me SICk Massage? On man. you're marned.We'll setlle for Jack & Jacuzzi men. Gotta crUise. CASANOVA & FROSTY PS F1sh1ng? OK We'll shul-up we saw that look 
JohnnyJo A~ih~~y and Jeff( how s BB­
dlng d1ng d1ng")Hayes. the prom was memorable(THINK aboulll),buJ our DAL­LAS lnp was besJ! From Charleslon Jo LITTLE Wabash(not to be conlused... J, the company.or lack there of, was unbeat able. Bur where's the beei?Oh. 1n Kankakee.Hoyas by 6..bel YOU can't rec1te EVERY statiStiC in 31anguagesl Still preler golf lo baby oil and leather gloves? The truckers are tired,the bugles are gone.the search hghts are d1mm1ng. but we'll always love your hair Jeff(or lack there of), and John-you are our elernal p1g of the day! Thanx aga1n lor the party-Love and XXX. Farley's MOTLEY CREW P.S Jeff. iJ's clearing up. II really is. WANDER IND FOREVER I 
ROE RIG-Why should I change my name. I'm only Interested 1n real women! Ou1t wh1le your beh1nd. Darren 
PETE BOWEN--tis not that I hate men-­they do have a lunct10n Peace and Love. AMF 
Is there any real meal 1n 1648 Turtle Creek? 
Congratulations Karl & Ann 
''Never trump your partner's ace lead 



________·--~ 
~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t__________________Tu-esd_~_.M_~_ch_2_7._19-84 p_a~~5 
Come to Paradise, come to Notre Dame 
In a world of changing values, few things remain the same. Notre Dame is the Catholics' constant. The same problems that exist throughout the world exist at Notre Dame, but they have not marred her golden charac­ter. 
To those who see the educational system in the United States as faltering, the minds of the 
Joseph Murphy 
Wishful thinking 
youth as wasted: Let them come to Notre Dame. 
To those who view today's youth as sexual­ly active alcoholics with drug tendencies: Let them come to Notre Dame. 
To those who witness the violence, hatred and preJudice that plague the world: Let them come ty Notre Dame. 
To those who say that the Catholic Church is an in~titution of the past, that Catholics are no longer different: Let them come to Notre Dame. 
If anyone doubts the future of mankind, Notre Dame can ease those fears. Most cer­tainly, Notre Dame is an imperfect institution, but she remains a symbol ofall that is ideal and catholic. 
While striving for academic excellence, Notre Dame has continued her commitment to those denied a chance to enjoy life. 
Notre Dame has maintained an awareness not just of the local South Bend community, but of the world. Her awareness programs have addressed the problem of hunger in the world. Some students even fast one day a week. 
Leading the troops to battle has been Father Hesburgh, who has traveled the globe speak­ing about the plight of the hungry and the poor. His latest cause is nuclear disarmament. At a time when most people have retired, Father Hesburgh continues to set an example for his students. 
Above all, one finds at Notre Dame students with a sense ofsocial justice. Young men and women who believe they can make a dif­ference. They have the Faith. 
The doubters have spoken before, but they do not understand the nature ofthis place. They complain ofeverything that is wrong 
with the University, everything that is lacking. 
True, there are many things lacking at Notre Dame. Among them are: heavy drug use, long hair, expectant mothers and campus riots. The students do occasionally protest, but the protest usually concerns such outrageous demands as having Cap'n Crunch cereal in the dining halls. The students are not so much rebels these days, as comedians. 
Campus politics follow a predictable cycle. The students complain, are ignored, and go to sleep. The cycle is based on the authority of the administration and on the desire of stu­dents to graduate. 
Occasionally, an issue, usually related to parietals (sex)oralcohol, causes a hot flash on the campus. Such issues are infrequent but, when they arise, linger for months until replaced by new ones, such as who should count student ballots. 
What is important in the debates of trivial pursuit over student rights is not the outcome, especially since students never win, but the fact that students learn they have rights. In learning to demand their rights, the students will one day be able to defend the rights of others. Hesburgh, perhaps, adheres 
to the philosophy that the man cannot walk until the child learns cO crawl. The doubters reply that it is hard to crawl when you are chaim d to the crib. 
The doubters v'ew all these squabbles occuringwithin the family as they might a ser­pent hiding in a bush. 
What they do not realize is that whatever the impact of this place and its people, the in­tentions ofNotre Dame are always altruistic. 
The doubters are the complainers. They speak, but do not act. Whatever their notion of social justice, it remains locked in their heads. They may be concerned, but they are not committed. 
To repeat, let those who are pessimistic about the future of Notre Dame come to Notre Dame and find hope. For this place is as close to paradise as anywhere in the civilized world. 
To those who disagree with all of this, let them write to The Observer. 
joe Murphy is a freshman in Arts & Letters atNotre Dame and is the newAssistantView­pointEditorat The Observer. 



P. 0. BoxQ 

Wrong information 
Dear Editor: 
The editorial by Bill Krais which appeared March 16, titled N.D. forfeiting ideals for military contained some misleading informa­tion. 
Krais stated that Notre Dame holds invest­ments in five companies which rely on Department of Defense contracts for over 50 percent of their revenue. Krais' information was apparently drawn from an investment policyproposed to the Trustees by ourgroup. 
Becoluse Notre Dame does not disclose in­formation on its investment holdings, it is in­correct to say Notre Dame holds stock in the aforementioned companies. No one outside ofthe Board ofTrustees and the officers ofthe University has access to this information, including Krais. 
Michael Skelly Studentsfor Responsible University Investments 
Idealistic viewpoint 
Dear Editor: 
I am a senior in high school and will be attending Notre Dame as a freshman next full. Because my brother is presently a senior there, we receive The Observer at our home in Cincinnati. 
I was reading your paper when a particular article caught my eye. The article was by a guest columnist, Bill Krais, and was entitled 
N.D. forfeiting ideals for military. 1It ap­peared in the March 16 issue. The article was the most absurd I have seen in The Observer since we began our subscription four years ago. 
I certainly hope that my years at Notre Dame do not render me naive and idealistic like Krais. He has an opinion lacking any ofthe sense of history or reality that every political columnist must have. Not only do I disagree entirely with the article, but he writes several very inaccurate things. 
Krais writes that "war never preserved democracy, never resulted in lasting peace, and never effectively guaranteed freedoms." Who is he kidding? Was World War II not a war? Was Hitler merely a preserver of peace? Was our American Revolution not a war? 
I fail to see Krais's logic. America has fought in at least four wars to preserve democracy and the freedoms we so dearly enjoy: the Revolution, the Civil War, World War I and World War II. 
Does Krais seriously suggest that we should not have used military force to stop Nazi Ger­many? If he does, then he expects national leaders to be as naive as he has shown himself to be. 
Krais assumes that Christ hated all war. Like many simple minded idealists, he supposes that Christ's statement, "he who lives by the sword, dies by the sword" denounces all violence. 
How~ver, Jesus never once says that all violence is wrong. In fact, St. Augustine (who was one of the greatest Christian theologians ever) spends several sections ofCity ofGod explaining a just war and why it sometimes may be necessary. Where Krais gets his idea that "Jesus would not fight in any war, just or unjust..." is beyond me. 
It should be obvious to anyone aware of twentieth century history that the Soviet Uni­on is operating on an expansionist theory of foreign policy. How does Krais propose that we deal with this growing empire? 
Does he want us to rid ourselves of the military and allow our freedom to be lost, as he presumably feels we should have done with Hitler's Germany? The only way the Soviet Union will ever listen to any peace proposals is from a position of strength. Any other suggestion is irresponsible and naive. 
Obviously Krais feels we should lay down our arms and allow our freedom to diminish. The real world is much more complicated than that. 
I challenge Krais to be a more responsible Christian. jesus did not say "allow yourselves to be walked on." Rather, he promoted per­sonal freedom and liberties that only a well­defended nation can enjoy. 
Ken Kollman Cincinnati, Ohio 
Hofman's standards 
DearEditor: 
Last Friday morning, March I6, I984, I walked confidently into the Engineering Auditorium knowing that another "Emil" ritually awaited me. This quiz was unlike all previous ones, though. Dr. Hofman was not there to constantly "keep an eye" on any pos­sible cheaters, just in case any were to be found. 
He was not present during the quiz because he was disgraced and deeply wounded after reading the article on academic dishonesty published in the March IS issue of The Ob­
server. 
According to the article, cheating is more frequent in the Chemistry II 5-II6 courses than in any other course. The article also stated that the vast majority of students in these couses have cheated at least once, and some have virtu;~lly passed the courses by cheating. 
As a member ofChemistry I I6, I would like 
to know where the vast majority of these 
cheaters is. 
During the last two weeks, on quiz days, Dr. 
Hofman has made every member ofhis classes 
aware of an honor policy. If a person could 
take the quiz honestly, without any cheating 
whatsoever, he was to sign his name on the 
quiz. On the other hand, if a person cheated 
on thr quiz, he was to print his name. 
The policy was instigated solely for the benefit of the quiz-takers, enabling them to truly prove or disprove their own honesty. I wonder if the author of the article on academic honesty counted the number of printed names before he assumed a vast majority of us were cheaters. 
Dr. Hofman issues a multiple-choice quiz because he feels this to be one ofthe best ways to test our mastery of the material. The quiz also tests our responsibility and integrity as human beings. Although we receive no grades that will influence our G.P.A.'s, they will in· fluence our entire lives. 
Dr. Hofman is trying to show his students that a moral education goes hand in hand with a book education by giving us a free decision to cheat or not to cheat. 
I do not believe the vast majority ofDr. Hof­man's students would lower themselves to cheating, but obviously someone who writes for The Observer does believe this. Dr. Hof­man was terribly disturbed by what he read. 
I hate to think that the Dean of the Fresh­man Year has no faith left in the class of '87. Maybe those of you who do cheat should seriously consider how much you are hurting yourselves along with the rest of us. 
Nanette Penz Freshman 
Rampant cheating? 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to The ObsenJer's article on cheating which appeared on the front page ofthe March IS issue. I feel that this article grossly exaggerated the amount of cheating which occurs in Dr. Hofman's Chemistry II5-II6 class. 
The survey of students done by Mr. Neblo must have been extremely incomplete to give the author the impression that a majority of the class has cheated at least once. 
The article which appeared in The Observer was a public humiliation ofDr. Hofman, a man who has devoted his life to Notre Dame. I feel that Dr. Hofman deserves a public apology from not only the author of the article, but also the editorial stalf, who allowed the article to be printed. 
Anne LaFlamme Freshman 

Letter rip 
Haveyou read something in The Ob­server you didn't quite agree with? If so, why not write a letter to the editor. Letters to the editor must be well­written and typed. They mustalso bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author (initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable). Please try to limit the size ofyour let­ter. Material shorter than 250 words will receive priority. All/etters are sub· 
ject to editing andbecome theproperty ofThe Observer. 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager . ......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor .............Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institii.W1lh The ne~s is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ... _.... Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned e&i'tonals represenf the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor .............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3,1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  

The Observer Tuesday-, March 27, 1984-page6 
• F
!C • • • J! 
SENIORS 
There will be a MANDATORY SAC meeting. TUESDAY. March 27 (Tonite) at 5:30 in the LaFortune Alcove Room. This will be a short meeting to discuss the SUITCASE PARTY. 
•

r• • ., 
IF YOU ARE JUST 
GRADUATING INTO DEBT, 
HERE'S HOW TO GET OUT. 
If you've gone to college on National Direct Stu­dent Loan or a Guaranteed Student Loan or a Federally Insured Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, here's a great way to pay them off. 
Get the Army to help you do it. 
'instead of taking a long, long time paying back that student loan, you spend a short time in the Army learning a skill, and possivly even accumulating additional money for college (like a graduate degree) via Army College Fqnd. 
If you qualify, each ·year you serve reduces your indebtedness by one-third, or $1,500, whichever amount is greater. A 3-year enlistment eliminates your debt. 
It's worth looking into. See your Armv Recruiter. 
Sgt. Jones 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY·I!E ALL YOU CAN 8E~ 
,.. 
GROUND ZERO & MOCK CONVENTION 
present a DebateI Forum on U.S. DEFENSEPOLICY 
Thursday. March 29 
7 p.m. in Center for Social Concerns 
ANYONE WELCOME 

HEYSTUDENTS!! 
EXTEND YOUR SPRING BREAK!! Win a trip for 2 to San Diego. April 6-8. at the Sr. Class SUITCASE PARTY!! To be held at Lee's Barbeque 
THURSDAY. APRILS 
Tix are $10($5 per person) and are available &om any Sr. Advisory Council member and at St. Mary's. This price gets yo into the Happy Hour and registers you for the TRIP. So keep your suitcases packed an GET YOUR TICKETS NOW! 
I:)OO'"'...o""~.r.r.r..c.oo-.r~...cr...oo--...o""~...o-"'..., 



SLlT 
APPLICATIONS FOR STUDENT GOVT. ~ continuedfrompageS JUDICIAL COORDINATOR 8 . 
have some words about Mich1gan last night. "Michigan is a good Big Ten bas­

Open to all members of JUDICIAL COUNCIL 
ketball team, which has excellent
Apply at Student Govt. Offices 
personnel. They, too, are a strong 
rebounding team, and (Eric) Turner and (Antoine) Joubert are probably two of the best guards in the country." 
\ 

IRISH ITEMS -Indiana and US Olympic Coach Bobby Knight was presented the Kodak Man-of-the­Year Award at halftime of the Notre 
Deadline for applications-TUES., MAR. 27, 5:00pm 
f.,---------------, Dame game. 
Last Night's Results Notre Dame 65, Southwest Louisiana 59 
I I 
Southwestern Loulsla (59) M FG-A FT-A R F P
I I 
Brown 40 3-6 0-3 8 3 6 
Warner 40 4-10 4-4 9 4 12
1 MOCK CONVENTION I 
A. Allen 40 8-15 4-6 8 2 20 
D. Allen 28 0-4 2-4 1 5 2
I still needs I 
Almones 36 8-14 3-5 3 3 19 Hill 4 0-0 0-0 0 0 0
I afewmore I 
Peoples 12 0-2 0-0 0 1 0 200 23-51 13-22 29 18 59 FG Pet. .451. FT Pet. -.591. Team
I DELEGATES I
rebounds -1. Turnovers -12. Assists -13 (Aimones, Peoples 4). Technicals-none. Notre Dame (65) 
I I 
Dolan 36 2-3 4-4 10 
Royal 7 0-0 0-0 1 1 Sign-up TODAY in 2nd floor I M FG-A FT-A R i P~ 
Barlow 32 5-15 3-3 12 2 13 Howard 32 2-5 2-3 2 1 6 Sluby 35 11 -22 4-4 2 4 26 
1 Lafortune Office I 
I I 
Kempton 33 2-6 4-6 4 3 8
republicans, Democrats, ANYONE welcomeJ Hicks 9 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Price 16 2-4 0-0 1 1 4 200 24-56 17-20 33 14 65 FG Pet. .429. FT Pet. -.850. Team rebounds -5. Turnovers -15. Assists -16
I I
(Howard 5). Technicals-none.
,...__________________,, Halftime -Notre Dame 24, Southwestern Louisiana 19. Officials-Mickey Crowley, Dick Paparo, Gene MonJe. A-9,049. 

Come home to Roosevelt this summer and earn additional credits. 
Put your summer vacation to Go ahead. Roosevelt's conve­good use by taking courses at nient locations and class sched­Roosevelt University's Chicago ules let you earn credits while or Arlington Heights Campuses. you're earning cash, too. 
Classes are held days, eve­This summer Roosevelt will nings and weekends through­offer a complete range of out the summer. Terms begin courses in arts and sciences, May 7 and 18, June 4 and July 2 business, education and music. 
and 16. So come to RooseveltYou'll benefit from small class and take back the credits you sizes taught by professional need to bring you closer toinstructors who take the time to a degree. 
make learning a personal experience. 
Call (312) 341-2000 for a Thinking of working full or summer course schedule and part-time this summer? admission information. 
Downtown Campus Northwest Campus 430 S. Michigan Avenue 410 N. Arlington Heights Road Chicago, IL 60605-1394 Arlington Heights. IL 60004 
~l !!.«?..~!~!~,~JJ:'~!!~.~!~!!
• College of Continuing Education • College of Education • Graduate Division 
-------------SENDTODAY!------------­ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY, Office of Public Relations • 430 S. Michigan Avenue • Chicago, Illinois 60605-1394 N.D.0319 
Please send me further information for 
Name_______________
study on the 
0 undergraduate level ~~~JI,_'·______________ 
0 graduate level 

.-.•..· -~~-.. ...-.·.·.:: ..._... , 

~c:»cJI.at~------------------------------------T-ue_s_da_y_,M_~
__ch_2_7_,_19_8_4__ e7
p_a_g__ 

Bloom County 
AN/7 NrJIJ UT'S MEH 

711€ UT/GANT5 A5 
7H£Y fXTF:R 1H€ 
COtlltfR()()M , .. 

Mellish 


H£1?.£'5 1HE PlAINTIFF, Mli'. 5T€VE PAUAS, WHO SAYS THAT WHIU mMINb AROCK VIPW 
WITH 1H€ tleff.NVANT, A 5P€CIAl:­
EHECTS 8t.A5T /GNITU' HIS 
CHf.5T HAIR ... HE'S 51J/N& 
fOR !;tO Ml/.l.ION. 

Guindon Richard Guindon 

"Ask your lather, dear. He's parenting today." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 31 Society 62 Rangeror 10 Made out 1 Officer miss Eagle 11 Floating trainee 34 Blue-collar 63 Factual object 6 Siestas worker 64 Made into 
12 A Gardner 

10 MacMurray or 36 Poem narrow 
13 Algerian

Flintstone 37 Murder paths 
governors

14 Tex. memo-38 Teachers' 
65 Formerly, 18 Adored 

rial org. 
19 Moslem 

39 Advantage once 
ruler
66 Offenses

15 Curved arch 40 Addition to 
67 Levees

16 Swiss a house 
24 "-du
river 
Iieber"

17 Fun-seeker 41 Spruce 
DOWN 
25 Ocean

of sorts Goose home 
Film plants

45 "Now I-
players 26 Tiny

20 Young me down..." 
2 Lily plant 

suffix 46 Dispatched 
3 Carp 27 A Ford 

21 Mex. cheer 47 Highway 
relative 28 Country

22 Doles 48 Wedgie 
4 Importance estate

23 Roof or pump 
29 "Boot"

overhang 49 Arouse 5 Worn-
country

25 Inspired frazzle 
50 Indian
reverence 6 Princely 30 Go-between 
53 Fluid·
27 Manifest 7 Feverand 31 Ruse 
filled 
chills 32 Buchanan

pouch 
or Bergen 30 Out of the 54-Ono 8 Cat, e.g. 33 Wallace storm 58 Blown away? 9 Coterie or Noah 

ANIJ HtR€.5 1/ff, PmNPIIN T. 
MISS ~55 TURBO, Wl/0 SAY5 11/AT 7H£ PUliNTIFF tlesti?VW f.Vf.RYTHIN& HE. (J()T 5/NCe 1£'5 AClllPt.f.Tf. Jf.RKFf!a. 50 N(}.4J. JOIN VS 1011AY ON ''1/ff, 
P€0Pf.£'S COVRI.~ 

,. I 

·Berke Breathed 
... FOR "THE CAS€ 
Of 71ff. CHilKRf.fl­CH6ST£V CHII~P.'' WATCH 
f YOUR 
MOIJTH. 

Dave 

Unwittingly, Palmer stepped out of the jungle and into headhunter folklore forever 
-
35 Foolish 53 Avoid 39 Passage 55 Sty sound 41 Shucks! 56 Joint 42 Carrillo orGenn 57 Betting43 Concoct item 44 Onassis 59"-in the 48 Linen item bag" 49 Overfills 
50 Leer 60 Numerical 51 Waste land prefix 52 Sheridan 61 Ancient 
and Miller times 
Monday's Solution 

Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Brown Bag Lunch, Prof. Larry Sjaas­tad, 120 1 library 

•12:
15 p.m. -Sociology Lecture, "Family Labor Resources and Household Economic Strategies in a Mexican 'Ejido,'" Ms. Debra Schumann, 121 Hayes Healy 

•12:25 
-Workshop, Economic Public Policy, Peter Vander Nat, library Lounge 

•3 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Men vs Valparaiso, Courtney Courts 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Cyclic Plastic Strains at Notch Roots," Prof W. N. Sharpe, Jr., 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs Michigan, Courtney/Racquet Club 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Lecture, "Searching and Pairing in Homologous Recombination," Dr. Charles Raddig, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematics Lecture, "Geometry ofphase, space, parametrices and estimates," Prof. Richard Beals, 226 CCMB 

•6:15 
p.m. -_ Women's Support Group for Graduate Students Meeting, Wilson Commons 

•7 
p.m. -Ground Zero Meeting, Center for So­

•7:30 
p.m. -Discussion, American Presidents: John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson, CCE 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Debt, Depression and Real Interest Rates in Latin America," Prof. Larry Sjaas­tad, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute, 122 Hayes Healy 


cial Concerns  .  
•7  p.m.  - Film,  "Triumph  of  the  Will,"  
O'Shaughnessy Loft  

TV Tonight 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
16 TheA-Team 22 The American Parade 28 Foul Ups, Bleeps and Blunders 28 A.K.A. Pablo 16 Riptide 22 CBS Special: Terrible joe Moran 28 Three's Company 28 Shaping Up 
16 Remington Steele 28 Hart to Hart 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Magnum PI/McCloud 28 ABC News Nightline 

© 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

~~~~.r.r....oo"'~~~.,.,..~~ 
§ Student Union Academic Commission presents: s: ---··---------·---------·-------I
.........................................................~ 

~ REV. THEO KOTZE § •-WHAT DOES THE I I 
I 
((Jeputy director ofthe Christian institute of 
STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE 

Southern Africa un~f! he and t~e institute were banned 
CHEAPER PRICES...s.,.,z•-n•ff'"'P",;,,, 
MOST CURRENT SINGLES-"•• Jo1tompo""'

by the Apartheid government m 1977. Rev. Kotze 
58.99/tstJ

-escaped/rpm South.~frica in 1979.) 
CUT -OUTS... IJ.98-SH8 
GR£A T SELECT/ON... Sprmrzstt'en. FogdiX'r.rt, Sr~mt'

§ speaking on 
·'"'k5, ChriSiopht>r Cron. Mood_r Blurs, Pal 8trJu1ur, Jour"ti.')'Utld man), marry mm·r 

~ SOUTH AFRICA: 
ALSO... fl?<"nrdrdundblunt. tD~o.,utfublr. ' .

§ The Struggle Against Apartheid 
CONJ/£N/£NC£... TitelliDSVRec·ordStu,ullK·ulffl •• 
J
11n lht' 'ttum Flunr ofLuFortunr : Plus-ordtrpdulbumstulct'rmlront .,.-nl. rourm·r' . """:' e

§ Tuesday, March 27 8p.m. 
............................................................

L .·-· Center for Social-Concerns· · 
QCOOCr.r..ocoO'".r~...ccx;r~..;.:yo........ocr~.r~~J.:Y"~.r.r.r...r~:cc:oe:oeo~ , f • I I 1: •" • • 4-. • • ~ • .. • ~ # • ~ • • • • •.• • • .-.-,. • • ..-.. _.· • • •·• • • ~­
. ·--.•..•.•.-.--.--------------~-------------------··-~-----· 

Tuesday, March 27, 1984-pageS

SRorts 
Irish reach NIT Championship game 


Sluby leads team past SLU, 65-59 
ByJEFF BLUMB cause the Cajuns could manage but Assistant .\ports Editor 39 percent themselves. The shots just didn't seem to be 
NEW YORK -It was a classic falling for either team. In the second ca~e of tht· familiar and the un­half, though, that situation appeared familiar last night for the Notre to change. Dame basketball team, as the Irish "We just tried to get better shots," stopped Southwestern Louisiana, said Notre Dame captain Tom Sluby 6~-"i9, in tht· st·mifinals of the NIT. of the turnaround. "I had problems 
Notre Dame now faces Michigan, early. Maybe I wa~ just a little nerv­who t·dgt·d Virginia Tech, 78-7S, in ous. the first half of last night's "I think I wa~ rushing my shot. douhkheader, in the championship Coach (Digger Phelps) just sat me game on Wt·dnesday (9 p.m. -USA on the bench to see things more Network). clearly, and I settled down," con­
Recognizably, it was the Notre tinued Sluby, who ended up with 26 Damt· tt·am playing which out­points on the night. rebounds its oppont·nnts game after From its 24-19 advantage at the gamt·. But this was not the same half, Notre Dame was able to in­Notrt· Damt· team shooting free crea~e that margin to 32-21 to open throws last night. the second half. The Irish then, 
Whik most fans will remember the poor foul shooting of the Irish earlier this season, it has been a dif­'I think that maybe ferent Noter Dame team at the line 
we thought we could

of late -and last night it rt·ally paid off. coast after we got up
The Irish made their first IS at­tempts of the night, as they went on by 11, but we just to I7-20 shooting from the line for 
regrouped out on the 

an unchara<:teristic 8S percent. Again last night, Notre Dame floor and then dug in dominated the hoards, pulling down 
again.' Tom Sluby

38 rt·bounds to Southwestern Louisiana's :\0. The domination of tht· Irish in the rebounding depart­however, lost some of the ag­ment was no more t•vident than in gressiveness they had displayed ear­the offt-nsive rt•hounding column. lier in the game, and allowed Notre Dame wa~ able to grab 12 Southwest Louisiana to crawl back rebounds at the offensive end. into the game. 
"Their offensive rebounds were a "I think that maybe we thought 
The Obseno:r/Paul Cl.lionoUI 

definite key," said Bobby Paschal, we could coast after we got up by 
The retu17l ofTim Kempton (shown here in thegame defeated Boston College andPittsburgh, and last rtgbt

coach of the Ragin' Cajuns, after­I I," Sluby said of the letdown. "But 
against Boston College, in which be scored 20 points) they beat Southwestern Louisiana to ea17l a spot in the 

ward. "They were one of the better we just regrouped out on the floor 
to the Irish lineup bas been a key factor in Notre finals Wednesday night. For more on the NrT, see the 

rebounding teams we played this and then dug in again." 
Dame's success in the NrT. During break, Notre Dame related stories on this page and on page 4. 

year. "Defensively, we played tentative­
"But you can look at other things ly in thet one spurt," Notre Dame Dame came back to take charge of able to control the game tempo the Ja'it night in the night's other game at that made the difference in the coach Digger Phelps said afterward. the contest. rest ofthe way. Madison Square Garden. The con­game_ We did not execute well at all "southwest Louisiana is a streak­Joseph Price drove the lane for a Southewst Louisiana was forced test was an exciting, run-and-gun on the offensive end, and we were spurt team, and that's what worried short Jumper right after the time to foul down the stretch, and, of battle that sec-sawed throughout. impatient on offense. We also me." out, Sluby popped twice from course, Notre Dame had little missed some key free throws, and But after losing its lead at 49-48 outside, and Tim Kempton ended trouble connecting from the gift line Phelps, who will work his 2 1-1 I they hit just about all oftheirs at cru­and then falling behind, S3-SO, on a the eight-point run with a layup offa on the ensuing one-and-ones. troops for an hour-and-a half this af­
cial times." back-door layup by George Price feed with the Irish now in their Notre Ilune now returns to the ternoon at the Garden, address the 
Neither team wa~ able to do much Almones, Notre Dame took a time high post (delay) offense. finals ofthis 47-year-old tournament problems which the 22-10 Wol­in the first half, as the lead changed out with S:S6 remaining in the game. for the second time. The Irish lost to verines pose at a 12:30 p.m. press hands six times. lbe Irish were able lbat timeout may have made all With the score 58-53 in favor of Virginia Tech, 92-91, in overtime for conference today. to struggle out to a 24-19 halftime the diference in the world. them and the 45-second shot clock a second-place finish in the 1973 The Irish coach, however, did lead on thl'ir 40 percent shooting Instead of falling apart then, a~ it off because the time remaining was tournament. from tht· field in the initial period be-had many times this season, Notre under four minutes, the Irish were Virginia Tech fell just a little short see SLU, page 6 
Notre Dame football team begins spring practice 
is always a goal of spring workouts, "We wanted to shore up our weak junior Mke Larkin, who sat out last his sophomore campaign as the Irish By THERON ROBERTS the appearance of the three new spots, and that's our biggest one," season with a broken arm after being signal caller after an impressive Sports Writer defensive coaches took top billing said Faust. "We'd like to go into the the second-leading tackler in 1982. freshman season. Scott Grooms will 
this time. fall with the top two people es­The offensive side of the coin is a be back for his final sea.<;<m to 

Notre Dame's three new Andy Christoff, the new defensive tablished in every position." brighter story, with ten starters provide assistance, a~ will sopho­deft-nsive coat·hes got their first look coordinator and coach of the Bishop Harris, a former assistant at returning. morejoe Felitsky. at the 1984 Irish football squad -defensive backs, has a throng of LSU, is in charge of the outside The offensive line could rank as Receiving Beuerlein's passes will minus tht· innJming freshmen -a<; players trying to secure defensive linebackers and defensive ends. He one of Notre Dame's biggest and be seniorJoe Howard, who will have the spring practice sea<;<m opened backfield positions vacated by Toran will have a much easier time, as best ever. Seniors Mike Kelley and to wait for the NIT to end before yesterday at Cartil'f Fidd. and Brown. senior Mike Golic and junior Rick Larry Williams will occupy the cen­starting football practice, along with 
Coach (;crry Faust. who enters his Two starters -senior (to be)Joe DiBernardo return. Although DiBer­ter and the strong guard positions, junior Milt Jackson and sophomore fourth season at the Irish helm, led Johnson and junior Pat Ballage -nardo did not start in 1983, he did respectively. Junior Tim Scannell Alvin Miller. his players through position drills return in the secondary for next see considerable action. Providing will be back in his quick guard slot, The kicking game is another thing with t•ach of their respective year. but this will be an admitted backup will be senior Joe Bars and while fellow juniors Mike Perrino that Faust would like to have settled. coacht·s, and for thrt·c; of those Irish weak spot. sophomore Robert Banks. and Tom Doerger will be the tackles. because replacemt·nts for both Kiel coaches, it wa~ timt· to get ac­In order to remedy this situation, The defensive tackles will be un­Junior Ron Plantz and sophomore and Johnston arc needed. quainted with their troops. many players will get a shot at the der the tutelage of Rick Lantz, who Jon Askin will provide depth up Faust wa'i fairly pleased with what 
The rostt·r is missing a few notable open secondary positions, as Chris­came to Notre Dame via Georgia front. he saw in the first practice, although players. including sevt•n four-year toff tries to t111 the depth charts Tech. Senior Mike Gann, junior Greg To carry the ball, Notre Dame's he admits that it is too early to make monogram winners -quarterbat·k before tpe fall. Dingens and sophomore Mke Grif­entire backfield will be back. Junior judgements. Blair Kid, offensive tackle Mike Junior Van Pearcy and sophomore fin have the top spots for now, with Heisman Trophy candidate Allen With 17 returing starters, tht· Shiner, kicker Mike Johnston, Mike Haywood, former receivers, as support coming from junior Eric Pinkett led the Irish in rushing and Liberty B:Jwl triumph, and the im­defensive tackleJon Autry, lineback­well as junior Lester Flemons and Dorsey and seniorJerry Weinle. scoring last season and returns with provemenr Faust has noted over his t•r Rick Naylor, cornerback Stacey sophomore Trey GJieman, tailbacks George Kelly, the only returning visions of improving his impressive three years hen:, there is much Toran, and safety Chris Brown. Gone last season, all went through defensive coach, may have the most totals. His backup is flashy sopho­reason for optimism for the 1984 also is starting guard Neil Maune, practice on defense. Sophomores luxuries at the inside linebacker more Hiawatha Francisco. Senior season. and additional defensive backs Troy Wilson and Steve Lawrence, slots. Junior Tony Furjanic, the top Chris Smith will remain as the top lbe spring practice session closes Daane Spil'lmaker andJohn Mosdy. who both saw action in the secon­Irish tackler last season, and sopho­fullback, with help coming from with the S4th annual Blue-Gold 
Although the task of finding dary in the fall, are expected to make more Mike Kovaleski should benefit classmate Mark Brooks. game, which is slated for Saturday, replacements for graduating players contributions ao; well. greatly from the return of speedy Steve Beuerlein looks to go into April28. 




