------~-------------------~-----~ 
Space shuttle-pageS 

VOL XIX, NO. <;S the indqll'ndcnt ~tudl'lll lll'\\~papcr ~tT\ 111g tllltH lLunc ami ~aintmaq ·~ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER I 3, 1984 

Bishops' letter calls for war on poverty 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE to provide rcmedies in a more Edttor-ln-Cblef timely manner for unfair labor practices." 
Poverty in a nation as rich as the •lhe direction of United States United States is a "social and moral foreign policy, which under Presi­scandal that must not be ignored," dcnt Reagan has bccn shifting according to a pastoral letter toward military programs, should reka.-.cd yestcrday by a panel of rc·empha.'>izc basic human needs. Anwrlcan Catholic llishops. "'!he Investment of human 
Tht· fundamental message of the crcativity and material resources in ~trongly wordt·d letter is that thc production of the weapons of poverty, in many cases, is causcd by war only makes these economic man and that man should do more to problems more: intractable." end it. •Finally, "a consumerist mentality 
The bishops' 1.20-pagc rough which encourages immediate draft, which will llc discussed this gratification mortgages our future. wet•k at the annual meeting of the Both our cultural values and our tax .2HO-membcr National Conference structure: nced to be revised to dis· ofCatholic Bishops, l'alls for an over· courage: exccssively high levels of haul of the ll.S. welfare system and a consumption." redul·tion in unemployment to 3 or "Most of all we arc concerned 4 percent. how our economic dccisions affect 
Even though the letter will not of· the poor," said Archbishop Rembert ficlally be voted on until the bishops' Weakland of Milwaukce, chairman 19H'i meeting, the rough draft of thc four-mcmber committee already ha.~ sparked controversy which wrote: the rough draft. "We ahc>Ut the bishops' role in political find it a disgrace that 35 million affairs. It is a criticism similar to that Americans live below the poverty levied against the bishops for their level and millions more hover just 19H3 letter condemning nuclear above it. We are appalled at the sad war. sight of extreme poverty elsewhere 
Yesterday, Bishop James Malone, on this globe." head ofthe bishops' conference, said In a ncws conference Sunday, the Church has a "pa.o;toral duty" to Weakland said the United States can speak out on public policy matters be proud of its economic achieve­Fonner Chicago Mayor jane Byrne speaks to a that also raise moral issues. (Related ments, but there have been failures· full house yesterday at Carroll Hall at Saint stories, pages 2 and 3.) some "massive and ugly," according 
'lhc document stresses these to the letter. main points: "Ilte bishops' strong language 
Byrne sees more women in politics,
•"'lhe fact that more than 1 5 per­surprised some observers, including ccnt of our nation's population live Notre Dame Professor of Manage­below the official poverty level is a ment John Houck, who said Friday social and moral scandal that cannot that hc expected much of the docu· 

with a corresponding rise in power
he Ignored." ment to contain "maybe even bland" 
By KELLY O'NEIL Speaking at Saint Mary's on the Walter Mondalc succumbed to
•"'lhe most urgent priority for language:. News Staff role of women in leadership posi· special interest group pressure in
U.S. domestic economic policy is the Houck said the letter would tions, Byrne discussed the changing choosing Ferraro as a running mate,creation of jobs with adcquate pay become stronger as more revisions Women are going to be entering roles of women in politics, and was Byrne said. But she addcd that Fer­and decent working conditions." are made. 
•"Hunger persists in our country, Bishop William McManus ofSouth politics more and achieving more as critical of Geraldine Ferraro's un­raro wasn't a token. "The barriers a result, said former Chicago Mayor successful campaign for vice presi· are still there, but now I think wo·
as our church-sponsored soup Bend/Fort Wayne cautioned Friday, men arc achievers and they wlll
kitchens testify. Far too many people howevcr, that much of confercnce's Jane Byrne last night. "l think you dent last week. so "While she prescntcd herselfwell, achieve."
are homeless and must seck refuge: agenda arc "house-keeping issues," will see womcn become per­from the cold in our church base­left over by the ncw Code of Canon vasive in the political sphere that there was little background check Byrne said women are capable of they will begin to project them­done on her at the time of her achieving great things in positions of
ments. As pastors, we know the Law. despair that can devastate individ· Notre: Dame has been a leading 
selves on the office," she said. nomination." authority. She mentioned Betty Friedman's book "lhe Feminist Mys· 
uals, families and whole communi!· resource for the bishops' commit· And once a woman establishes She commented that the prob· ies when thc plague of tee. Last December, a symposium at herself, she continued, there is noth· lems surrounding Ferraro's hus­tique," as putting forth the message unemployment strikes." Notre Dame featured panel discus· ing to prevent her from gainingpow­band, John Zaccaro, because of his that women must retain their fern!· erful positions such as that held by income tax statements could have ninity while at thc same time be suc·
•Labor laws should be changed to sions by leading experts in govern­cessful in what they choose to do.
help workers organize unions, "to British Prime Minister Margaret been dealt with before being made 
see BISHOPS, page 5 Thatcher. public.
prcvent intimidation of workers and see BYRNE, page 5 


Student on Board of Trustees not likely in the future 
Editor's note: The following is the second of fi11e articles ex· amining the Notre Dame Board of 1'fustees. The series will con­centrate on who makes up the bo(lrd, what its responsibilities indude, and the question 'of a student on the board. 
By SARAH HAMILTON 
New.~ Editor 
A student trustee at Notre Dame should bc a reality, but probably will not happcn soon, said Student Body Vice Prcsidcnt Cathy David. 
"I think thcrc should be a stu· dent on the hoard. I don't think thcrc will bc onc soon...hut we havcn't given up on it yet. 'Ilterc arc so many channels it has to go through," David said. 
Much progrcss has been made toward thc goal of a student ser­ving on thc board, according to David. Last ycar she and Student Body Presidcnt Rob Bertino had 
discussed the possibility of a stu· dent on thc board, she said. "A youngcr person was our idca...I really think they have a good pcr· spective." 
David pointed to the appoint· ment of Dr. Kathleen Sullivan to the board as a step toward that end. Sullivan graduated from Notre: Dame: in 1978. Recently, a second alumnus under the age of 30 was named to the board. Ter· rence Keelcy, a 1981 graduate, was appointed to onc three-year term, a.o; was Sullivan. 
Bertino is less certain about the rcality ofa student serving on the Board ofTrustees said David. "It would scem on the outside it would be a good idea," but there are problems with it, Bertino said. 
11Je studcnt body president specified two of these problems. "The University carrics on after we graduate:" hc said, and stu· dents may lack the foresight demanded by a position on the 

Board of Trustees 
series 
ultimate governing body of Notre Dame. 
The issue of confidentiality poses another obstacle. It is not in the best interest of the stu· dents to know every item ofbusi· ness the Board of Trustees handles, according to Bertino. A student on the board would not be permitted. to relay thc proceedings of the board to the student body. 

Saint Mary's apparently has cleared the hurdles to which Ber· tino rcferrcd, because a student serves on thc College's Board of Regents. "How does Saint Mary's do it? I don't know," Bertino commented. 
David's proposal is that a stu· dent should have a seat on the board. He or she should have speaking privileges but not voting rights, because ofa lack of continuity. David suggested members ofstudentgovernment, because such students usually are "bcttcr informed, more con· cerned, and more open." 
"I think they could bring in an added view of the University to the board...a diversified opinion," David said. 
While Bertino said he does not think a student should serve on the board, he said a student should sit on some of the com· mittecs, such as thc student af. fairs committee which is chaired 
by Anthony Earley, president of Chave and Earley of New York. 
Although a student does not serve on the board, the student body does have a voice at the twice-a-year board meetings. At the student affairs committee: meeting prior to thc meeting of the entire board, a contingent of student rcprescntatives are al· lotted thrce hours during which thcy make a prcscntatlon. This year approximately ten students 
see BOARD, page 5 

-~ ----~------·---­
The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 2 

Ramifications of pastoral letter could be 'far-reaching' 


In Brief · 
The head of the KGB secret police, Viktor M. Chebrikov, arrived in Prague, Czechoslavakia, yesterday, the official news agency CTK reported. The briefdispatch said Chebrikov, who is an alternate member of the Soviet Union's ruling Politburo, and Czechoslovak Interior Ministry officials would discuss "questions of mutual cooperation among friendly security corps and the further deepening of their cooperation in the protection of the social and state system of the two socialist states." The Soviet KGB chief was invited by Vratislav Vajnar, the Czechoslovak interior minister, CTK said. -AP 
Conservationists said yesterday that Japan, in a tentative agreement with the United States, has agreed to stop killing whales by 1988 in return for a U.S. promise to forego penalizing the Japanese for hunting sperm whales. Jack Lacovey, a spokesman for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, refused to comment on the report by Greenpeace U.S.A., a private organization active in protecting whales, and James Beat, a Washington lawyer representing the conservationists. Lacovey said details of the agree-' 
ment were still being worked out. -AP 
Of Interest 
"The MBA: ATicket to Successr'is the topic 
ofa lecture by Karen Dowd, director ofplacement for the U Diversity of Virginia's Colgate-Darden Graduate School of Business Adminis­tration at 6:30 p.m., tomorrow in Room 304 of the Haggar College Centq. Dowd, a 1971 graduate of Saint Mary's, and director of Career Planning and Placement at the College from 1974-78, will discuss the value of a liberal arts education as preparation for a career in business. The lecture is co-sponsored by the Department of Business Administration and Economics and the Counseling and Career Development Center. The lecture is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Yehezkel Landau, information secretary of oz VeS­halom, a religious Zionist peace movement in Israel, will speak on the religious peace movement in that country tonight at 8 in the Galvin Life Sciences building auditorium. "OZ VeShalom" means "strength and peace," a reference to Psalm 29:11. Landau's lecture is sponsored by the University's Department of Theology as one of its Crown-Minow lecture series. -The Observer 
"Markets andFamilies:Allies or Enemies?" will be the topic of lecture by Noel Reynolds, professor of philosophy and government at Brigham Young University, today at 4:15. Part of the Manville American Enterprise Series, the talk in the Memorial li­brary Auditorium is open to the public. Reynolds is the author of several nationally circulated articles on constitutionalism, the rule of law and the welfare state. He is also the editor and contributor to numerous books, such as "Mormonism: A Faith for all Cultures" and "Essays on Public Ethics." -The Observer 
This is WomenVeterans'Week.For the first 
time, the nation will pay special tribute to its 1.2 million women military veterans. President Reagan has signed a Congressional resolution proclaiming this week as "National Women Veterans Recognition Week." The resolution calls for an observance to "create greater public awareness and recognition of the contribu­tions of women veterans, to express the nation's appreciation for their service, and to inspire more responsive care and services fer women veterans." Administrator of Veterans' Affairs Harry Walters has urged all VA facilities to plan appropriate programs to emphasize the VA's role in serving women veterans. __: The Observer 

Weather 
After yesterday's winter weather, it will be clear and warmer today and tonight with a high around 50. Low in the mid to upper 30s. Sunny, windy, and warm tomor­row. High in the upper 50s to about 60. -AP 

Today's issue was produced by:
The Observer-
Design Editor .............................. Tom Small lbe Observer (USPS 599 Z-4000) is 
Design Assistant........................Anne Long published Monday through Friday and 
Typesetters ....... Mary Ellen, Tom and Ted c,m home football Saturdays, except 
News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino during exam and vacation periods. lbe 
Copy Editor ............................... john Heasly Observer is published by the students of 
Sports Copy Editor ..................... Jeff Blumb the Universiry of Notre Dame and Saint 
Viewpoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
Features Copy Editor ........... Teresa Keefe purchased for no per year ( $20 per se­
Features Layout........................ Mary Healy mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. 
ND Day Editor ........................ Barb Stevens Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 465~6. 
SMC Day Editor ........................Shirley Ore lbe Observer is a member of lbe 
Ad Design ................................ Susan O'Hara Associated Press. All reproduction 
Pbotograpber .................... )ohannes Heller rights are reserved. Sheila Burke 





The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 3 



Bishops' defend political ventures 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The leader of America's Catholic bishops, defend­ing recent ventures by church off­dais into political and social issues, said yesterday that to remain silent on abortion, nuclear threats and the huge gaps between rich and poor would be a "dereliction of pastoral duty." 
Bishop James Malone, head of the National Conference ofCatholic Bis­hops, noted "the intensity of the recent debate" over the propriety of religious leaders' involvement in public policy. 
But he said such debate was nei­ther new nor limited to the United States. "It is impossible to interpret world events today if one does not grasp the role of religion," he 

APPboto declared. 
Archbishop Rembert Weakland ofMilwaukee balds a copy oftbe In the recent election campaign, first draft of tbe Pastoral Letter on Catholic Social Teaching and the Catholic Church was most tbe U.S. Economy Sunday during a Washington news conference. visible in the criticism by a few bis· Story at right. hops of Democratic vice presiden­
tial candidate Geraldine Ferraro's more than 300 cardinals, archbis­position on abortion. Ferraro, a hops and bishops. Catholic, said a woman should be Referring to a much-debated allowed the option ofan abortion, al-1983 policy statement on nuclear though she is personally opposed to weapons -approved over the loud abortion. objections ofthe Reagan administra-
Malone, in what appeared to be at tion -he said, "The national atten­least mild criticism of such bishops' tion paid to the letter was due to comments, said, "We oppose a what we said but also to the way we 'single-issue' strategy because only said it" as a group rather than as scat­by addressing a broad spectrum of tered individuals. issues can we do justice to the moral tradition we possess as a church and The letter, ~hich could be sub­thereby demonstrate the moral chal-stantially revised before final Jenges we face as a nation." approval next ~ov_ember, cont~ns 
But he also said he wouldn't con-strong language InSisting the Uruted demn bishops who emphasize a State~ should do more for the poor single issue in public bocause "the of th1s nation and the world. 
conference exists to enhance the It also calls for government job ministry of each bishop, not to con-programs, higher welfare payments strain it." and lower taxes for the poor in a 
Still, he said, the bishops' new 112-page text that raises many ofthe reputation for speaking out -and any "fairness issues" that Democratic influence that might accompany presidential candidate Walter such a reputation -has been won Mondale tried to use in his un­through the power of speaking as a successful election challenge to group representing the nation's President Reagan. 


Senate reviews trustee presentation 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE 

APARTMENTS YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available...Winter semester...convenient . .. spacious ... Laundry facilities ...plentiful parking ... superior maintenence... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: 
(219) 234-6647 
By MIKE MILLEN 
StaffReporter 
Termed by Student Body Presi­dent Rob Bertino as "the main chance to get our say in the projects to be done for the student body," the trustee meeting presentations were reviewed at last night's Student Sen­ate meeting. 
The reports focused on student social life, senior townhouses, and the woman's role on campus. 

Executive Coordinator Doug Wurth said the issue ofsocial life was chosen because of changes brought about by the alcohol policy. The report read "the widespread use of alcohol as the source of entertain­ment concealed the presence of a deteriorating social environment at Notre Dame." Wurth added, "the ad­ministration must share the respon­sibility for this environment." 
He said the main problem is the lack of any place designed specifi-cally for students to gather in a relaxed atmosphere. "You can't so­cialize while you're standing in line (at the Huddle)," Wurth said. His committee's suggestions include an undergraduate club, development of more physical fitness centers to relieve the congestion at the Rockne Memorial, and encouragement of outside vendors. 

The women's role on campus, presented by Lyon's Hall President Joanle Cahill, involved a lengthy compilation of facts and figures de­signed to give trustees an idea of the place which women have on the Notre Dame campus. 
In regard to the current 2. 5 to I male-female ratio, Cahill said 71 per­cent of the male students surveyed felt it hurt their social life, while 42.4 percent of the women Interviewed said the difference helped their so­cial life. Of the dubs on campus, Cahill reported only .20 percent of the presidents and vice presidents are women. "There is a definite need to establish the identity of the Notre Dame woman." 

Correction 

Due to an editing error, the photo on page one of yesterday's Obseroer was incorrectly attrib­uted. The correct photographer was Sheila Burke. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637

N.wyoucan 
(219) 272-4135 

commute to work,·CltCb a fUibt or eqtoy tbe day....,.... wldl Uldted Umo'l dependable new d8wDtowD Cblcap .mce. 
TO DOWNTOWN CHICAGO 

LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE OSCEOLA BIG BEAR NOTRE SOUTH BEND OFFICE TOWN & COUNTRY DAME AIRPORT 
5:30A.M. 5:45A.M. 6:00A.M. 6:15 A..ll. 


Arts & Letters 
ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE MIDWAY ART MARSHALL WATER TOWER AIRPORT INSTITUTE FIELD'S PLACE 
Business Society sponsors1:15 A.M. 1:50 A.M. 9:00A.M. 9:15A.M. 
FROM DOWNTOWN CHICAGO 

LEAVE LEAVE ARRIVE MCDONALD'S "MIDWAY SOUTH BEND 
a career meeting with
220 N. MICHIGAN AIRPORT AIRPORT 
6:00P.M. 6:45P.M. 1:45 P.M. 
---ARRIVE 
ARRIVE ARRIVE 

·the MAY COMPANY on
NOTRE BIG BEAR OSCEOLA 
DAME JOWN & COUNTRY OFFICE 

9:00P.M. 9:15P.M. 9:.JO P.M. 
Tues., November 13, 7:00 
Bide United Umo to Midway Airport and Downtown Chicaao Same Day Ret~~r-CAU YOUR TUVIL AGENT OR UNITID UMO 


124 Hayes-Healy


674-6993 


---------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 4 

THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. THE EASY WAY TO CALL HOME AND SHARE YOUR CHANCE ENCOUNTERS. 

.-.;.:::::;;.:::;·:·.:~~;.:.:.:,:;:,:,:,:,.,:.:;.:-......;....:······:·:-··· ;::.•;.:::::·:·::::.::;;;;:::=:·::::;:}:· 

;J.If~i!..!Iii!Ji:!.i~.~~.E:t±£1 

When you were a child, remember how you were supposed to be seen and not heard? Now that you're in college, being heard and not seen has certain distinct advantages. 

If by chance your forward motion comes to a grinding halt, you can still get through in another way. Call home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. The quick and convenient way to get in touch with your family. Without the hassle of calling collect, fumbling for spare change or pay­ing for the call. And since you can only call home with the CALL ME Card, Mom and Dad don't mind picking up the tab. 
GET ACLUE. GET THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. 

So don't let life's little detours throw you off track. Call home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. And let the folks know you still have plenty of driving ambition. 
Don't have an AT&T CALL ME Card yet? Mail the coupon at right to AT&T and we'll send an application home to your par­ents. Or phone: 
I 800 CALL An, Ext. 50. 
,------------,GET THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. THE BEST WAY TO CALL HOME. WHEN YOU'RE AWAY FROM HOME. 
Your Parent," Name 
City/State/Zip 
( ) 

Parents" Phone No. 
\(,ur Name (0 Mr./0 Ms.) 
College Check Class: 0 Fr. 0 Soph. 0 Jr. 0 Sr. 0 Gr'ad. Q
L ____________ ..:..J1 


The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 5 


Discovery completes first-ever space salvage 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston -A free· !lying astronaut captured a wayward satellite in history's first space salvagt· mission yesterday, then he and a fellow span·walker wrested it aboard Discovery hy brute fon:e after a failed brace prevented usc of the shuttle's robot arm. 
"All right! we got it. We got it," calkd Dale Gardner after he and joe Allen maneuvered the Palapa 82 satellite into place in the shuttle's Gtrgo bay and slammed home three locking pins. 
Allen had held the satellite by himself for more than 90 minutes as Gardner attached a locking frame on the can-shapt·d craft. 'lbe work re­quired Gardner to tighten nine holts and Allen was forced to rotate the craft by hand at Gardner's direc­tions. 
"I can hold it wherever you want it, Dale," said Allen, grasping a rim at one end of the craft while Gardner worked at the other end to attach the locking frame. 
Allen was heard to gasp repeatedly as the '5-foot-6 astronaut strained against the inertia of the 21­by-7-foot cyclindrical satellite, which weighs I,200 pounds in Earth's gravity. He held the satellite while Discovery made one com­plete orbit of the Earth. 
Earlier Allen had flown out to the satellite using a rocket-powered back pack. He had poked a 4-foot pole-like device called a "stinger" into the spent engine nozzle at one end of the satellite. He then threw a switch that snapped open toggle bolts and sccurt•d the stinger to the Palapa. 
Astronaut Anna Fisher, using the 
SO-foot robot arm, snared a handle 
on the stinger and moved the 
satellite, with Allen attached, into 
the cargo hay where Gardner 
waited, lying on his back on the 
car~o bay floor. 

Discovery had been chasing 
Palapa since it was launched last 
Thursday. lbe shuttle caught up 
with the errant satellite after 1.6­
million-mile chase that involved 44 
rocket firings of Discovery steering 
jets. 


Mission specialist joe Allen, left, attached to the satellite Palapa with the end ofthe Canadian ann in center foreground. The shuttle went outafter the 


Bishops 
continuedfrom page 1 

ment, business and religion. lbe Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, directed by Houck and Father Oliver Williams, sponsored the symposium. 
In addition, Charles Wilber, pro­fessor of economics at Notre Dame, has served as consultant to the bis­hops' committee. 
The rough draft raises many ofthe "fairness issues" that Democratic presidential candidate Walter Mondale used in attempts to portray President Reagan as favoring the rich over the poor. 
But the letter does not mention 
political parties or personalities. 
"The policy must be changed so the 
poor, in particular, can be taken care 
of, regardless of party," Weakland 
said Sunday. 


Board 
continued/rom page 1 

and the problem of residence over­crowding are the subjects Bertino has planned to discuss at this lbursday's meeting. 
Various student representatives have prepared approximately 40 pages of material concerning these issues and have mailed them to all of the board trustees. 
Bertino said he could not see the effects of past student body presi­dents speaking before the board in this manner. He added; however, that he wants to do a follow up to Thursday's meeting. He said he wants to see what happens to his proposals after he leaves them with the committee. 

Byrne 
continuedfrom page 1 

"The mystique to me Is being the total woman -being prepared and educated, yet never losing the mys­tique ofbeing a woman," she said. 
Byrne also addressed the problem of discrimination against wom.en in today's society. "I think part of It Is deliberate," she said. "One of the things my critics attacked was that I changed my mind. Well, I didn't change It more than anybody else, but they made a point ofIt because I am a woman." 
Byrne commented that women in positions of leadership are "put on the spot more than their male coun­terpart." 
She said she didn't mind people referring to her as a woman mayor. "I never minded it just so long as I was sure they got the word mayor in. That's the Important thing." 

All You Can Eat Special.$6.f5 
Here's your chance to go overboard at one kind of seafood served with french fries 
Red Lobster" Sundays through Thursdays. and cole slaw. Mter you finish it, order more 
Eat as much as you want ofour delicious ofthe same seafood or switch to a different clam strips, broiled or fried fish, and every­kind. You're not limited to what you can eat body's favorite, Popcorn3 Shrimp. or how much you can eat. 
Here's how it works. Place your order for So stop at Red Lobster and keep going. 

Red Lobster® 
Please see telephone directory for the Red Lobster Restaurant nearest you. 
Most Matnr Cn•d11 Cards Acct•pted © 1984 Red Lobster Inns of America. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 6 


Columnists Novak and Kondracke debate election effects 
work when you are up against a can­didate who is selling free beer." He continued that Reagan has not diminished the problem ofthe gross national product. "Federal spending has risen from 22.5 percent to 25 percent of the GNP. Revenues are now only 20 percent of the GNP. Five percent ofit is historical deficit. And that deficit has got to be paid for. 
"What Ronald Reagan is selling is like the banana split diet that you read about in the National En­quirer. That diet never has to be paid for. Mondale tried to level with the 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
COMPUTER MAJORS.. WOULD RATHER BYTE INTO DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
$100 off any pizza. 

$1.00 
One coupon per pizza. 
Off 
Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 
for Americans to vote for any can­didate who is unpatriotic. 
"And Ronald Reagan had a beautifully-timed recovery, whether or not the formula has validity for the long-term ti.uure." 
On the issue of Central America, 
Kondracke said he fundamentally 
supports what Reagan is doing. "I ba­
sically believe that Ronald Reagan 
has a better conceptual idea of how 
to negotiate with adversaries than 
Walter Mondale had." But he~dded, 
"I disagree with what he's doing 
with our friends." He said he doesn't 
agree with supporting right-wing 
dictators. 
Novak, however, said, "The prob­
lem is that ( Kondracke) wants to 
fight this war in handcuffs. Our side 
must adhere to strict democratic 
principles. We have to push 
capitalism. We have to fight these 
people in the tough jungles of those 
countries and it ain't Iowa --and 
sometimes you have to fight with 
allies you don't like." 
Novak addressed the issue of reli­
gion, saying, "The issue very likely 
had little impact on anybody's 
voting with the possible exception 
of the Jewish community who may 
have moved towards Reagan." 
Regarding the impact ofconserva­
tive clergy, Novak said, "It is damag­
ing to say that only the clergymen of 
the left can express their political 
views but not the clergy men of the 
right." 
But Kondracke contended, "What 
is offensive is when anybody starts 
accusing someone else of not being Christian. The basis of American so­ciety is toleration." 

Kondracke said he doesn't know what Reagan is going to do about taxes, "and I submit that he probably doesn't know what he's going to do about taxes. He hates taxes. He prob­ably hates taxes as much as Robert Novak hates taxes. That's because they are in the same income bracket." 
"There will not be a tu increase in 1985," said Novak. "Count on it. There is not any kind ofvalue-added tax or sales tax being seriously con­sidered. There was until Mr. Mondale upset the game at the Dem­ocratic Convention by calling for his tax increase. Reagan had to call his bluff." 
The future of liberalism is up for grabs, according to Kondracke. He separated the Democratic party into four groups --the jesse Jackson group, which is a radical, third-. world liberationist party; the Gary Hart group, which believes in hel­ping the poor and creating jobs; the john Glenn group, the smallest group which holds conservative doctrines; and the Walter Mondale group, which caters to special­interest groups, and which Kondracke said is a dying breed. 
But Novak said, "The problem with liberalism is that itdoesn't have the slightest idea ofwhere it is going. Special interest groups are no longer a major factor." He added he thinks the Hart group of"new liberals" will take over the Democratic party ifthe Reagan recovery fails. 
After the debate, the two writers discussed the current trend on col­lege campuses towards conser­vatism. Novak said, "I think it is a feeling by students that they really want to get on with their lives and build houses and raise families with­out government interference. From the kids I have talked to I get the feeling they are not just suddenly in­vol¥ed in Republicanism." 
Kondracke said, "I think there's two causes. First, Jimmy Carter is the only other president they have known as voters. They want some­body who will succeed. Mondale's message was that we have our best years behind us. They don't like that. Also, there is an idealism to Reagan for them. It is not patriotic for them to vote for somebody that is telling you that things are getting worse. 
"It is imperative for the Democrats to get somebody to be a spokesman for them besides Tip O'Neill. Whoever takes the chair­man of the House will have to take a bigger spokesman role." 
Besides being executive editor of New Republic, Kondracke is also a columnist for The Wall Street jour­nal and a commentator on Public Radio. He was recently a panel mem­ber for the second presidential debate. 
Novak writes a syndicated column with Roland Evans and has written several books. Both are featured weekly on "The McLaugh­lin Group," a weekly political forum broadcast on public television. 
By DAN McCULLOUGH people about this and he got clob­News Editor bered for it." Novak retorted, "It is incredible to have liberals who have believed 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. -The in deficits for all these years to sud­defeat of Walter Mondale in last denly be opposed to deficit spend­Tuesday's presidential election ing. shows deep structural problems in "We are now in a position where the Democratic party, according to suddenly the Republican party Morton Kondracke, executive comes out for growth as a way to editor ofNew Republic magazine. heal the economy and the 
Kondracke, one of the country's Democrats are now the party of most renowned liberals, said in a doom and gloom." debate Sunday that President Novak defined the difference be­Reagan's overwhelming victory tween the two parties: "The doesn't necessarily indicate a Democrats say we must all swim to­realignment of American politics -gether. And when somebody lags be­
polls now show there are as many  hind they want to slow down to pull  
Republican and Independent voters  them forward. The Republicans are  
as there are Democrats.  saying we should all swim together,  
Kondracke's opponent in the  but are asking some people if they  
debate, nationally syndicated col- could just swim a little faster." ·He  
umnist Robert Novak, said the rea­ added people are now saying"no" to  
son Reagan won by such a large  income distribution from the  
margin was because, "The issues the  middle class to the poor.  
Democrats thought were red hot  But Kondracke disagreed.  
really didn't hit with the people."  "Howard Baker has said that Ronald  
Such issues as religion and Reagan's  Reagan represents the largest river­ 
war-monger image were examples  boat gamble of all time. The piper  
where Mondale's message didn't  will have to be paid in the next year  
mean much to Americans, according  or two in a recession," he said.  
to Novak.  "There is now a transfer of wealth  
The two writers debated "Two  from the lowest to the highest. It's  
Views of the Election: After '84,  kind of like Robin Hoodism in  
What's in Store," at the first meeting  reverse."  
of the Sunday Sinai Forum Series at  Novak said people in areas ·hit by  
Sinai Synagogue, 2800 Franklin  high unemployment still voted for  
Street, Michigan City.  Reagan because, "They were voting  
Novak said Americans made a  against their pocketbook for patrio­ 
very plain statement in voting  tism, flag waving and Mr. Reagan's  
against Mondale's tax increase plan.  personal follies. I believe there is  
"The American people were voting  even in the areas of high unemploy­ 
'no' on higher federal taxes. The  ment some hope for growth and  
American people are saying they  new jobs."  
already pay an awful lot of money to  But Kondracke said, "People in  
the federal, state and local govern- areas of high unemployment voted  
ments."  for Reagan for a number ofreasons -­ 
But Kondracke said there was  patriotism, loyalty, against Walter  
more to the election than that issue.  Mondale. The Mondale campaign  
"The sad fact is it's hard to tell  had fundamentally a message of  
people (Reagan's policies) don't  doom and gloom. It was unpatriotic  


corUially invites Seniors to the Universit)r Club on Tl1ursday, Nove1nber 15th at 9:00 P.NI. 
Meet our executives and en1oy refreshments. Tell us about your career goals and hear about the exciting Executive Development Program at Lord & Taylor, America's leading fashion specialty store. Even if you have not previously thought of retailing as a career, you may want to know about the many interesting opportunities at Lord & Taylor. If you have proven abilities and a record of achievement, and look forward to the challenge of managing a profitable business in iust three years' time, 
"--------------Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you. ________, 










~i~~~_{)__i__Jl__t_________________Tu-es-day-,N-o-ve-mb-er_l-3,-19-84~p~ag~e7 
Senator Smith ~ould have beaten Ronald Reagan 
Although Ronald Reagan beat Walter since he was the closest candidate to the results will determine what the "product" wlll results until all the polls have closed seems a 
Mondale easily la~t Tuesday, he would not mythical Senator Smith. It was partially Cad­look like, what it will say and how it will act. better solution to the problem. 
have had a ghost ofa chance against a particu­dell's polling and image-making that brought The fact that this scenario could occur Is The molding of candidates to fit the polls, lar Senator Smith. 'Ibis remarkable observa-Hart dose to being the dramatic upset winner supported by the fact that after their defeat at however, ultimately may be handled by the of the Democratic presidential nomination. the polls, both Mondale and Geralding Ferraro voters themselves. Although the American Mark Boennighausen 'Ibis is past history since Reagan has been re­mentioned that the Democrats may have to electorate is often portrayed as uninformed, It elected and he probably would have beaten find candidates that "come across better on usually does know the "real thing." While Re­Hart if the Colorado Senator had won the television" if they want to win another publican canoidates all tried to tie themselves
Gravity is a myth 
nomination, but the Caddell technique ofpol­presidential election. Competent politicians to Ronald Reagan In the last election, many ling first and then molding a candidate to fit may be discouraged from running because were defeated for the sole reason that theytion is true because Scninor Smith is, in tact, a 
the results is very dangerous for the American they do not fit the figure molded by pollsters, were not Ronald Reagan. Charles Percy's loss
ghost. He is nothing more than the creation of 
political process. and good candidates may be weeded out to Paul Simon in the race for the U.S. Senate in
noted Democratic pollster Pat Caddell. 

before the voters have a chance to decide. Illinois is a perfect example. Although Percy
Caddell created Smith to test the waters of Politics in America today is a lot of image­
Candidates may no longer be willing to put· pottrayed himselfas a "born-again" Reaganite, 
the crowded Democratic presidential making but, for the most part, the images are 
"their message" to the voters and let them the voters did not buy It and he lost despite
sweepstakes la~t winter and he found out, built around "real people." Ronald Reagan 
decide whether to accept it or not. the fact that Reagan carried the state by a
through asking the correct questions, that most likely does believe most ofwhat he says, 
sizeable margin. 

Senator Smith easily beat Mondale and John and this is probably true for the majority of Recently, polls have been subjected to 
Since the election season Is finally over, the

Glenn, the Democratic frontrunners at that other American politicians. But with the ad­criticism since their influence has seemed to 
need to be on the look out for "Senator

time. Smith wa~ described to the questioned vancement in polling techniques, it is possible grow in elections. Indeed, Chicago Tribune 
Smiths" is past. But then again, 1986 Is not that

voters a'i a moderate liberal in his early 40s now for a pollster to develop a model can­columnist Mike Royko has gone so far as to 
far off. 

who hao; served in the U.S. Senate for over ten didate, before the election, who fits the suggest lying to pollsters who ask questions of 
years. Smith also ha~ bold new ideas for the voter's model candidate at that point in time. people leaving the voting booth. But exit pol­
future and rejects the past ofboth parties. Consequently, politics may soon become all ling does provide valuable data for political Mark Boennighausen is a senior govern­
,
'Iltis description may sound similar to Gary market research. Pollsters will go out and test scientists and such a remedy seems extreme. ment major at Notre Dame and ts a regular 
,
Hart, and Caddell did end up working for Hart the market, find what the people want, and the A law restricting the publication of exit poll Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O. Box Q 

So much for Reagan's campaign rhetoric 
Dear Editor: 

Well, it didn't take him long. Within a day after his re-election President Reagan threatened intervention in Nicaragua, promised to sla'ih social spending and ex­plained that certain tax deductions need to be eliminated (in effect, a tax hike)-so much for campaign rhetoric. For the poor, the elderly, those of draft age and middle income tax­payers · watch out. It's going to be a long four years. 
john Monberg Alumni Hall 

Some are pleased with Reagan's policies 
[)ear 1-.'dltor: 

Rt•ading through your Nov. 7 editorial page, !thought it might be interesting if you got the American viewpoint instead of the liberal one on the topics that were discussed. I under­stand that this might come as somewhat of a shock to you, hut there arc those ofus who arc pleast·d not only with President Reagan's amiable personality but also with his policies. 
Let us look at his stance concerning the mil­itary. He feels that in order to keep the Soviet Union in line, we actually have to have as many weapons as they do, or at least keep a technological edge over them -how immoral! Who do we think we are?Just because we are the wealthiest and most advanced society on earth does not give us the right to defend our­selves, with the best weapons available, against our peaceful, open and truthful neigh­bors in Northern Asia. After all, we have alr~ady forced them to subjugate half of Europe. invade Mghanistan, send hundreds of thousands of their own people to concentra­tion camps and outspend us on armaments 2 to I. 
Wouldn't it be more moral to allow our­selves to sink into pacifism and to not identify ourselves to future generations as the war mongers who had the gall to think that they had an equal right to existence with a totalitarian state whose avowed and obvious aim is to dictate policy and lifestyle to the entire world? 
As to Reagan's domestic policy -what a mean, cruel human being! Who does he think he is, actually expecting people to go out and work and advance on their own merits? How much better it would be if, following the ex­ample of several European states, we set up a complete welfare state. How much easier it 

would be if we had a big brother to give us 
enough to make us equal to those filthy 
capitalists whose only claim to wealth is that 
they are intelligent, hardworking, amibitious 
and willing to take a risk to improve their 
lives. Gosh, maybe if we did emulate the 
welfare states, one day we could all be as well 
off as they are. 

Sure, I've seen the horrible pictures of starvation rampant throughout America ­those 35 million living below the poverty level with their skin barely able to cover their bones. I do not think we have the mere re­sponsibility to house them, feed them and ed­ucate them. I think we should get them all nice suburban homes, with 2. 5 children, a dog, a nice car and a cabin in Wisconsin. 
When are you going to learn that there arc problems in the world that need solutions. Liberals are able to spot problems a mile away and scream hysterically but can never find a workable solution. They just find knee-jerk responses like the "nuclear freeze" and in­creased welfare, or they resort to innane name-calling hysteria. The longer I live in this nation the more people like that disgust me. 
K.R. Munro Dillon Hall 
Murphy was wrong in rejecting his party 
UearEditor: 
Joseph Murphy's Nov. 2 column titled "Life after Carter-Mondale Has Been Good" was an insult to anyone who considers himselfadem­ocrat. The choice between the candidates in this election represented the choice between traditional democractic values like equality, fairness, commitment to the needy and less of a militaristic world and the republican Ideals of income redistribution in favor of the wealthy, an unprecedented military buildup to make us "strong" and a foreign policy which no longer expresses concern for human rights violations. 
Murphy's call to Democrats to vote for Reagan is tantamount to selling out his party's values and ideals at a time when they are not overly popular. Even though Reagan won the election by a large margin, the values espoused by John and Robert Kennedy, Hubert Humphrey and Walter Mondale will not die out. The Democratic commitment to fairness, equality and peace will continue to be the guiding light to a safer and more just world. 
Paul Komyatte, President ND/~MC Young Democrats 


Give the football team more independence 
DearEditor: 
Being a Notre Dame football fan for a num­ber ofyears, I would like to make a few obser· vations and comments. 
First ofall, I have never seen such a talented group of football players assembled at any uni­versity until I have seen this year's group at Notre Dame. , 
It is a pity, however, to see them, particu­larly in their own stadium, reacting worse than high school players on the field. 'Ibat is to say, in watching the last few home games this fall, it was apparent that the players were not allowed to make decisions on the football field without first looking to the sidelines. They waited an interminable period of time while the clock ticked away using precious second'i, then minutes, for the coaching staff to decide on the next play. Why is it that a coachingstaffhas to interfere so much, partie· ularly to the extent that it utilizes precious playing time and takes away all offensive and defensive momentum while a drive is under· way? 
Is there any reason why a quarterback on offense and a team captain on defense are not allowed to call plays and move the team of­fensively and defensively? Could the reason be the coachingstaff's ego, Its inability to dele­gate to the players or its inexperience? 
Itis my opinion, and I feel that it Is shared by many, that ifthe Notre Dame team were left to carry out its role on the field, all that the players learned in scrimmages and in the classroom would come together and be reflected in a high team morale and in more victories. 
In conclusion, I ask the coaching staff to leave the team alone and to remove the pres­sure and delay of every decision which must be made on the field. Do not treat the players as machines instead of ao; intelligent, ag­gressive young men wanting to play football! 
RonaldA. Hart Bath, Maine 

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edlfor·in·ChJef. . .... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . .... Dave Taiclet Managmg Ed1tor . . . .. Mark Worscheh Controller . . . Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor ....... Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Ed1tor . . . . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. ..... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Samt Mary's Ed1tor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. Kevin Williams accurately and as obJectively as possible. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion Sports Editor. . .... Michael Sullivan Production Manager. . ... Chris Bowler of a maJOrity of the Editor1al Board. Commentaries, letters and the lns1de Column V1ewpomt Ed1tor . . ... Dave Grote Project Manager . . ... Amy Stephan present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Features Ed1tor . . . ... Mary Healy commun1ty, and the free expression of varying opmions on campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor. . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 





Accent 





Strategic taxtics 
Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 


I
t was only a week ago that Ronald Reagan was re-elected as 
President of the United States, and already the rumors are starting to 
fly about a raise in taxes, which ofcourse Ronnie was silly enough to 
promise he wouldn't do, and America was sillier to believe. 
But wait, you say, he won't raise taxes. He said so in all ofhis 
speeches. 01' Ronnie wouldn't lie to us. 

You're right, I say, he wouldn't lie to you, but ifeveryone who 
listened to him say he wasn't going to raise taxes had really listened, 
they'd know what he had really said. 
What it sounded like was this: 

"I have no plans to raise taxes(rest drowned out by applause) ..." 
But what he really said was this: 

"/have noplans to raise taxes ... (waitfor applause) ... but 
certain very clever members of my Administration do, after I am 
re-elected." 
That's right. That's what the old boy said. 

And there's a lot ofscared people in America now, and one of them 
is Bill "Tax" Earnhardt, a 62-year-old resident ofTaxes, Texas, who bali 
studied the process oftaxation since the old tax collectors ofRome 
used to terrorize their city. 

"I'll be frank with you," said Tax, "but I won't be sinatra. This here 
President Reagan really sends the chills up my spine." And then Tax 
squirms a little, and his eyes glaze as ifremembering something bad 
about his childhood. "He reminds me of the old Civil War days." 
Tax, ofcourse, was referring to the stillness at Appoma-Tax, when 
thousands ofpeople were taxed to death and then left to rot by a gang 
ofhorse-riding bandits supposedly working for the federal govern­
ment. They later became known as the Taxes Rangers. 
"It was bloody," said Tax, "and senseless. A real case oftaxic waste. 
And all over a few dollars offederal taxes." 

The government later denied any association with the Rangers, who lasted on into the 1940s and rivaled even the Ku Klux Klan as far as violence was concerned. 
"They were bad," said Tax. "Really bad." Tears welled in Tax's eyes as he recounted the gruesome event which took place in his home state in 1943. "The Rangers rode across the border with these big electrical appliances, and demanded that the people pay their taxes, and ... and ... it was horrible ..." Tax broke down and could not go on. Two people lost their lives that day as a result ofunpaid taxes, and itbecame known as -you guessed it -the Taxes Cqainsaw Massacre. 
This terrible tale inspired the hit single "Deep in the Heart of Taxes," by popular folk singer "Tax" Ritter (no relation to Earnhardt). 
The Rangers disbanded a few years later when they were finally hunted down after terrorizing a deaf community which had not paid its taxes. "AU they was doing was a-slttin' around," reads the just-published diary ofTax Von Sydow, leader of the Rangers. "And so to solve this problem -the "DeafSit," we called it-we placed taxes o all the seats before they sat down one day, and wow! You shoulda seer 'em jump!" This practice ofplacing taxes on seats is evident in schoolrooms even today. 
When the Rangers were caught, most ofthem were stuffed and then 
mounted in public areas in order to discourage any thought of their 
revival. This art became known as taxidermy. 

"But I digress," said Tax. "Reagan is in charge now, right? Well, let me tell you some things about this so-called November Project ... " 
Tax could hardly restrain himself as he let loose what he knew about the November Project. He said President Reagan will raise taxes but in very clever ways so that no one will really notice. 
Reagan, Tax said, plans to start offby taxing brass beds, doorknob~; and keychains. This will be known as the Brass Tax of 1984. 
After getting down to Brass Tax, Reagan will push through Congress a biU calling for a tax on men's formal wear callt:d, ofcourse, the Taxedo Bill. 
"Then," said Tax, "he'll strike right at the jugular vein ofAmerica ­the kids." Reagan will do this by removing all forms ofcandy and videc games from the market, and replacing them with one form ofboth: a new concoction ofchewables called Tic-Tax and an exciting game called "MakeTax," in which the joystick controls a·greedy tax collector as he travels through an unsuspecting town oftaxpayers. The new candy and video game will be priced slightly higher than the old ones. 
And finally, after blazing new tax trails through the industries of schoolbooks ( taxtbooks), materials (taxtiles), and fuel ( Taxaco), Reagan will complete the fell swoop by going after the backbone of this country-the fast-food restaurant, namely McDonald's. "Big Mac! could cost as much as $4 apiece," predicts Tax. "Ronald won't be so appealing to kids anymore, much less their parents." This tax, of course, wiU be known as the Big Mac Attax. 
Tax said ifyou plan to stay in-the "country, you'd better be prepared to hold on to your wallet, 'cause Ronald "Boss Hogg" Reagan will be knocking at your door soon. But Tax had a plan. 
"I've designed an e~ape system," he said. "These secret rooms can be built adjacent to basements, joined by a-concealed doorway, and all you got to do when the tax man comes along is hide in there until he's gone." 
Tax plans to sell the plans for these escape rooms via the Black 
Market, but he doesn't know how many customers he can reach that 
way. "I won't tax my brain thinkin' about it," he chuckles. And what 
are these secret places of refuge called? Why, tax shelters, ofcourse. 


Bananara01a re-enters top ten 
Don Seymour 
features staffwriter 

Records 

1'""["1he American pop charts lag far 
.l behind the new music hitting it big in the dance clubs and in Europe. For instance, Madonna's "Lucky Star" hit number one on the American dance charts one year ago, yet it has just recently peaked in the top ten on the pop charts. The same can be said for Bananarama. "Cruel Summer" was a top ten hit in England in August 1983, but didn't reach our top ten until one year later. Still, the band members are not complaining because conquering America means large rewards. 
The group, formed three years ago, consists ofSiobahn Fahey, 24, Sarah Dallin, 21, and Keren Wood­ward, 21. They have been called the British version of the Go-Gos and have been labelled a latter day version ofa sixties girls group. Strong similarities support such claims, but the three shrug them off, claiming to be an eighties-girl group -independent, outgoing, deciding for themselves the direction of their caret:r. Indeed, the record is im­pressive. Even though the three aren't musicians, the sing· ers/songwriters have racked up a string ofBritish hits: "He Was Really Saying Something," "Shy Boy," "Na Na Hey Hey( Kiss Him Goodbye)," "Robert DeNiro's Waiting," and "Cruel Summer," the first three of which appeared on the group's American debut albumDeep Sea 

Skiving. 
The band's second album In the United States is simply titled Bananarama. It includes not only "Cruel Summer" but "Robert DeNiro's Waiting" and "Wild Life," the theme from the movie of the same name. The music is English pop -light, cheerful, sporting melodic synths and high-jittering guitar. The bass sometimes departs from the crispness usually associ­ated with jazz and American dance music and opts instead for a ram­bling, spreading, wide, messy (for lack ofbetter words) sound that can be heard most noticably on "Cruel Summer."' The percussion 
seems as much influenced by the 
calypso and ska revolution that 
swept England a few years back as 
by the typical monotonous thump 
and electronic claps; this can be 
most easily seen in "King of the 
Jungle." 
The band's most distinctive char­acteristic is its vocals -three voices in unison, often in harmony, throughout the entire song. No solos here· the girls sing together, and do it well. 
All the songs here, except "Dream Baby," were written by the group and its producers, Steve Jolley and Tony Swain. On the surface, they may all sound the same, and the lyrics may be rather silly, but, in the end, the songs represent attractive, highly lis­tenable pop. "Cruel Summer," though overplayed, is an excellent pop song with a smooth melody and irresistable beat. "Robert DeNiro's Waiting" is a delightful song about teenage daydreams of 
romance. 
A walk in thepark can become a bad dream People are staring andfollowing me This is my only escapefrom it all Watcbingafilm oraface on the wall 
inspires humor as well as wistful· 
ness. 
"Wild Life" has that calypso/ska feeling. Lyrics like "I may be too young but I've seen and done every· thing they say is fun" seem un­original, but the song actually warns of the pitfalls of the wild life. 
"StateI'm In" cannot stand up to objections that the band resembles a sixties girls groups. The tune sounds like something Phil Spector would have produced with modern instrument technology. The lyrics are standard but the result is fun. "RoughJustice" takes a crack at social commentary, but sounds out ofplace over the upbeat pop music. 

Overall, Bananarama has created nothing serious or wildly original ­just fun pop music. I recommend Bananarama to anyone wishing to expand his musical tastes beyond American pop music. 


Hearing problems at Gentlemen of Verona 
by Sharon Houk 
features staffwriter 
B
eing one ofShakespeare's early comedies, The Two Gentlemen ofVerona is an extremely difficult work to perform well. The play greatly depends on verbal wit. Shakespeare uses punl! and wit­combat to propel an otherwise slow plot. Friday's performance at O'Laughlin Auditorium by the Na­tional Shakespeare Company lost Shakespeare's wit to the curtained wings, and therefore lost the audi­ence as well. The play could not be heard. 
The Two Gentlemen ofVerona is the story of two pairs oflovers who after going through fortune and misfortune end up happily ever after. Shakespeare deals with youth­ful love and folly, friendship and constancy. The National Shake­speare Company's performance of the play was entertaining despite the auditory difficulties. The credit lies with Shakespeare and not with 
the players. 
Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium might be saddled for the hearing problem, but adapting to unfamiliar theaters is the profes­sionals' obligation. According to some, O'Laughlin Auditorium is an acoustical challenge but not an impossibility. Others maintain that the building is excellent acousti­cally with respect to its size. The company obviously underestimated the projection needed to fill the auditorium. 
However, some individual perfor­mances stand out as notable. David Scott's performance ofLuance, the clownish servant of Proteus, was uncommonly humorous and refreshingly loud. He and his stuffed dog provided the most entertaining portion ofthe evening. Similarly, Guy Howard played a very funny and usually strong-spoken servant named Speed. 
The costuming and other non­classical rendering ofthe play was for the most part successful with the exception ofthe cartoon-like nature ofthe outlaws. Instead of drawing the audience into the performance, the disjunct appear· ance ofthe outlaws separated the audience from the players almost irreversibly. But the outlaws did, by their antics, gave the audience an opportunity to enjoy the play with their eyes if not their ears. 

Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 8 -9 




Sharing fun and time at Logan Center 
Theresa Wagner 
features staff writer 
O
on a typical Saturday morning from 9 to II ::\0 at Logan Ct·n· ter, Co-directors Kathy Kdly and Tom McLaughlin share their time with rt·tardcd and foster home (.'hildren. lbcy are the leaders of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Council for the Retarded. 
Every Saturday morning is differ­t:nt, but all arc centered around the same basic routine. Beginninng at 9 a.m., 'iO to 60 children and .30 to 40 volunteers sing songs for a halfan hour. Arts and crafts are then the major projects of the day, and various games are usually the final planned activities. "We're just basi­cally having fun," says McLaughlin. 
Logan Center for the Retarded was founded in 1968 by a group of South Bend parents as an alternative for their retarded children. 'Jbrough the help oflocal and federal funding, a recreation center and school were built on North Eddy Street, not far from the 
Volunteers work with the handicapped at Logan Center on Saturday mornings and at the weekly Friday after­noon bowling games. 
Throughout the year, special The most amazing product of this 
activities and field trips are planned council is the progress that has 
by the students. These include a been made. Sharing, communicat­
trip to a farm, a trip to a ND football ing, and loving are basic activities 
game, a Christmas party, a trip to for each Saturday. 
the lee Capades, an overnight McLaughlin explains, "lbese 
camping trip, and a formal banquet. experiences in general have 
Kelly and McLaughlin explained allowed me to exp)ore other facets 
that their roles carry a great deal of of who I am. They enahle me to live 
responsibility because they are the and love as a child in an adult 
organizing force along with I 3 world. This is simply a time ofself­
other officers for the counciL Their discovery." Kelly agrees, "lbrough 
memorable occasions have been this council you get to know your­
numerous. "You can only expect self with first the children,and then 
the unexpectable," explained Kelly. with others in general." 


I 



Sports Briefs 
The ND women's track and field team will be practicing tomorrow at 5 p.m. on the indoor track at the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, call Anne at 283-2646, Susan at 283-4286 or Carrie at 283-3826.-Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dam.e Rowing Club will be meeting tomorrow at 3: 15 p.m. at the boathouse. For more informa­tion, call John Crilly at 283-31 70. -Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting for dinner in the Wedge Room at the Saint Mary's dining hall today at 5 
p.m. Notre Dame members will need coex tickets. For more infor­mation, call Lou at 283-41 l 0. -The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing .Club will be meeting 
tomorrow at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. For more information, call 287­8264. -The Observer 
Tuesday, November 13, 1984 page 10 
The Dolphin Clubwill be meeting Thursday at 7 p.m. in the LaFormne Uttle Theatre. For more information, call Paul at 283·1535 or Blaise at 283-1075. -Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMCSki Clubwill be meeting Thursday at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Uttle Theatre. Anyone interested in the trip should attend. For more information, call Julie at 283-4354. -The Observer 
"Speaking ofSports" will have an open phone une for listeners to voice their opinions tonight at 9 p.m. on WVFI-AM 
64. Host Chuck Freeby will take the calls at 239-6400. -The Observer 
All interhall football players must return 
their equipment tomorrow between 6:30p.m. and 7:30p.m. at gate 9 of the football stadium. -Tbe Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 14 
AP 
Top 


Twenty 

The Top Twenty college football teems in The Associated Pr9SS poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Nebraska (37) 9-1-0 1,148 2. South Catalina (11) 9-0-0 7,104 3. Brigham Young (11) 10-0-0 1,096 4. Oklahoma State 8·1-0 949 5. Aorida 7·1-1 892 6. Oklahoma 7-1-1 870 7. Southern Cal 8·1-0 805 8. Washi11Q!on 9-1-0 754 9. Louisiana State 7·1-1 693 10. Texas 6-1-1 643 11. Ohio State 8·2·0 636 12. Texas Christian 8-1-0 567 13. Boston College 6-2-0 412 
14. Miami, Fla. 8·3-0 347 
15. Georgia 7-2-0 321 16. Southern Methodist 6-2-0 311 17. Florida State 6-2-1 219 18. Auburn 7·3-0 203 19. Virginia 7-1-1 167 20. Clemson 7-2·0 102 

The Obsen,er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until -!p.m.. Monday through friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from I 2::W p.m. until 3 p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-dar classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­



Classifieds 
ters er day. 
Yo, Richardt JOHN THORNTON--ATIENTION Heeeeyy...Bath Chalecki is 19 today! All QUESTION: IS IT NOT TRUE THAT YOU gentlemen wishing to congratulate her Need aome tlcketa to •Penn WERE IN HIGH SCHOOL JUST THREE are urged to stop by 307 Lewis for S-....four, to be exact. I'll take 4 •tu· MONTHS AGO? ANSWER: YES QUES· birthday ktsses and, of course, intellectual ............................................. denta, or 2 atudenta •nd 2 GAa. Th­conversation. We loveyou Turp--Dianne, 
~-NO_T_IC_ES~~ ~~_F_O_R_SA_l~Ell~__TIC_K_ET_S~ 
TION: ARE YOU WORTH IT? ANSWER: TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. Aellgloua Gllta In Stained G.... I Need It Bad!!!!! One Penn. St. ticket· stu· guya are coming from W•t Vir· NO SIGNED, A PREVIOUS HIGH Joe, Michele, and a cast of dozens. 
Individually handcrafted The dent or GA Pleese call Grace-3781. glnl•...h•v• aympathy for thoae who SCHOOL AOUAINTENCE by Trap­
pistines. For more information, write Santa Rita Abbey, Box 97, Sonoita, PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 INTERESTED IN LAYING OUT THE This may not ba PEOPLE magazine but TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117 Arizona, 85637. OBSERVER? Come to an Introductory at least your name is in print. Thanks for layout meeting Thuraclay, November puning up with me last weekend: con­EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL For Sale · one round trip airline ticket to MY NAME IS VINNIE. FOR SALE: TWO PENN STATE GA'S­15, at 7:00 In the ObMrver olllcea. certed effort to halt mood swings and MRS. COKER. 233-7009 anywhere in U.S. Must ba used by 12/17. There, now that lhe exciting stuff is out of 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. talk funny. Cell Zake at 2045. DAVID E. 
CALL MELINDA AT 283-3716. other bad habits will follow ... 
Best offer. Call1216. the way, I think you should know that I Need ride to CLEVELAND leaving TUES· love, scumbag (when do I get a better need two Penn State GA's, preferably
TYPING NEEDED: 2 PENN STATE STUDENT DAY NOV. 20 Call Miriam4174 looking nickname?) Jackie Boggs TICKETS BARB 4096 
FOR SALE amplifier David Hefler dh200k before lhe game on lhe 17th. Call VINNIE 100 watts/channel call Mary SMC-4305 at 2538. That's VINNIE. 
684-8793 THE WOMAN IN RED NEED 2 Penn State GAs. Jeff 1049 WAKE ME UP BEFORE YOU GO! ST JUDE, a close, personal friend of the 
Inventor of quantum mechanics, got me a
······························· 

FOR SALE: 6 Penn State GA's in a
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES Commodore MPS 801 dot matrix printer. GIVE IT TO ME BABY! NEED 1-4 STUD A CALL TO PEACEMAKING 100/ on my last exam. I'm impressed.
block;Best Offer Call Eric 1528 
OR GA TIX. CALL KEITH 1022 13,7:30P.M.at Deo gratias. 
277-6045 Used 3 months. Reason for selling-need WEEK:TUES.NOV CSC 
PICKUP AND DEUVEAY money!! Contact John Long at Moreau multi-purpose room,the film "IF YOU Seminary-239-7735. $190.00 firm. LOVED THIS PLANET".(sponsored by Curious aboul the fate of the ENVIRON· NEED STUD TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL ND/SMCRTL) 
LOPPY--Thanks for another great

MENT during RR's 2nd term? Come to an JIM AT 1374. 
weekend! Love ya. 

PERSONALS
mformal lecture and discussion "The En· 

ATTENTION: can anyone •n•-thla one qu..tlon 
vironmentand the Elections" by Prof. Kel· I NEED 2 PENN STATE STUDENT Ques.-What's beautiful, 102 pounds, and !enberg tonight at 7:30, 1st floor TIX.CALL ROBIN AT 234-7319 "PURPLE IS NOW MY FAVORITE writes killer personals? Ans.· The slap. 
for ma: WHERE DO SESAME SEEDS
LaFortune. COLOR."
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­COME FROM? (and don't reply with­NEED 2 Penn State GA's call Martha at 
0363.24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test MMEATI MMMEATI! SMC 5120 from the buna) In anawwlng thla qu­
YOU WERE LOOKING GREAT. tlon you muat not find thaiiOiutlon In • 
available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER LINCOLN I 
UNCOLN?f? I Need 3 Penn State Tickets together. GA 
book, but by .._rving the an•-from THE SAINT LOUIS CLUB IS COMING 
SCHOLASTIC IS COMING' SCHOLAS· EVERYONE KNOWS LINCOLN WAS A or Student. Please call Panie 284·5087 

LOST/FOUND 

an Individual. When you finally fTIMI From the KING of CLUBS comes the best 
TIC IS COMING! November 15, pick one LOVER OF BEEF. 
aomeone who knowa thla an­of food. At our concession stand on the
up!

awwjonce again not by having looked New Mall by Cavanaugh Hall, you'll find
Desperately Needed: 3 or 4 GAs for the THE WEEK BEFORE OCTOBER It up) then p.....let me know. Do they Penn St. Game. will pay cash for tickets. us serving only the finest food. We won't come from bueh• or t,_ or ? Thla 
LOST: GREEN NOTRE DAME JACKET 

SCHOLASTIC Magazine ...it's what MARY LOU You have five minutes to
be surprised lo see Father Ted or the lot· 

Call Vi nee 3262 qu•tlon Ia harder than you think. ball team there before they go on to chew 
BREAK; LAUNOARY TAG SAYS MARC Notre Dame reads. Coming November dump me. I LOVE YOU· Walter 
DURETIE; IF FOUND CALL ALl SA 4341 

P..... reply by ._vlng your name and 15. 
NEEDED 4 PENN. ST. TICKETS CALL on the lions at the stadium. See you Sat.. number In the cluallleda. R_,ber Chester, . 
DAVEH.1606 just look for the Golden Arch! 
LOST: NO BRASS KEY RING WITH ALL PENNSTATEIII Who says engineers are geeks? 
no one Ia to reed the an•-· only dla­MY KEYS. MARY 2890 I desperately need two Penn State GA's. Anne
covar It by word of mouth. Until you 
Book ·em Denno ... Murder One find out, think of ell of the people you 
Please call Mary at 1333. LOST: Black Cross pen in 107 O'Sheg Wanted: 5 PENN ST. tix., someingrps. of
will ITIMIIn thla -rch. 
Missing: common sense and intelligence. 

after 11 :00 dass on Thur 11/8 call2263 or 2. Call288-9403. $$ FLY TO CAUFORNlA FOR A lffound please return to Mary, Lewis.
2245 any time·· THANX WEEKEND-or anywhere else in the U.S. 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE UNIVERSITY Help!! I I need Penn St. tickets! call Mark One round trip airline ticket for sale · toOF ILLINOIS NEXT WEEKEND (THE CAPITOL·OH MY GODII 221 You are
LOST:NAVYBLUE PEA COAT AT2T07 at3684 anywhere you feel like going BUT all trenchcoats are not seductive .
16TH TO THE 18TH). IF YOU CAN HELP 
a ... woman. Why are you ataggarlng? ME OUT, I WILL PAY FOR MY SHARE PARTY ON IDA RD. ON FRI. NIGHT 
travel must ba completed by 12/17. CALL DAVE AT 232-0554 OR DROP AT I NEED 5 STUD. TIX FOR PENN ST., 
What • funky looking hall Your nimble OF THE GAS, ETC. CALL MAUREEN AT 
Taking best offer. Makes a great gift! Call 203 ST.ED'S NO??? ASKED!!! CALL PAT 3055 1216. Coming lOOn·
feet and devntatlng IOOka will be 2900 IF YOU ARE INTERESTED. 
aorely ml-by all. 
Campus Crusade for Quetzal Coati 

FoundaCBjacketon 11/10cali3642 Need Penn St. tix, GA's or other. Call Dan Riser -you're a heal-on and you always just when you thought it was safe 287-6262 
Did you notice the "Women for Reegan"

will be !!1! And as always, we remember to LOST -14K GOLD CHAIN BRACELET say THAANNNKKYYY M I!! 
bunons just before the election ??? How 
come only fat girls had them on ?????

IN OR AROUND ENGINEERING BUILD­RIDE NEEDED:Back to NOTRE DAME KICK THE LIONS! NO vs. Penn St. T· 
ING OR PARKING LOT. IF FOUND on Sunday, Nov 25th from New York I desperately need one Penn State stu· shirts available now at North & South 
STILL NEED PENN STATE GAs. 4 or

CALLJOAN287-2831, EXT.17. metropolitan area. Will share expenses dent ticket. If you can help, please call Dining Halls. Only $5.00! Get yours and driving.Call Tom al 1244. Help!!! I Maura at 2694. before they're gone. 
peirs. CaH Rob--3305. Grant Gregory 
Chairman of the Board PLEASE NEED 2-8 PENN ST. TIX CALL of Touche A-& Co. 
I HOPE WHOEVER STOLE A RED CB WANT TO GO HOME!! 
JACKET SUNDAY IN 1ST FLOOR Ll· I'd Like to buy a vowel, please. 
TOM2111 will speak about 
BAARY HAS A VERY GUlLTY CON· WANTED: 2·8 PENN ST. GA'S BIG SCIENCE. IT WAS A 21ST BIRTHDAY REWARD GUARANTEED CALL TOM Ann Murphy 
"the audit and consulting I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET, x3584 lirm of the future." 
PRESENT FOR MY BOYFRIEND. IF 2111NOW! Roses are red SPOOK, YOUY KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. You were moaning about not having
Violets are blue
HELP!!HELP!! I DESPARATELY NEED 2 Nov. 13 7:30pm
PLEASE TURN INTO LOST AND Need RIDE to AKRON/CANTON area or had a personal In a long time, so here is 
Sugar is sexy FOUND IN THE LIBRARY OR CALL 277· exit 11 Rt.80 forT-giving. can leave Tues And so are you! your quota for the day: 
STUDENT OR GA PENN STATE TIX! Hayes Healy Auditorium 
Call Mary 2890 please! 

4706. NO QUESTIONS WILL BE aftnoon PAUL 4052 personal 
ASKED. personal ride to Indy Fri. 11·16 call Cindy-2933 personal
NEED PENN STATE GA'S.CALL MEGAN 284-4145 MAD-DOG CARRIG!! HAPPY
FOUND-GOLD BRACELET IN FAC· personal ULTY PARKING LOT THIS WEEKEND. (see, you gotfour at once!) 
Jul, Happy 20th BirthdayII BIRTHDAY FROM HUBES AND VITO 
FOR SALE 2 tix to Penn State. Call 233· Hope you have • great day and y•r. RIDE NEEDED TO ST. LOUIS FOR 216301'234·5778. I'm mluln' youI BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS: Pizza CALL 277-4706 TO IDENTIFY. 
At Dillon formal on Friday, a small black THANKSGIVING CAN LEAVE MON. 11· Love you, Tim and a Movie (VCR) in the Dillon Hall Party I NEED A AIDE to St. Louis for Thanksgiv· 
20 AFTER 3. CALL TRACEY 3193 
ITI camera was lost in room 1112 of the Room this Thursday at 6:00. Call John at ing. Will pay the usual. Call Maureen at Americana. Reward. Mark at 1728. 1333.
277-0607 by Wednesday if interested. I ciMperately nMd • ride to Chicago $$$$Need 2 Penn State GAs or Student Dear Ann Murphy, Bonjour ma charta 
thla weekend. My brother's apartment tix. Please call1570.$$$$ your Here! edmlrarer
Found: Men's watch found on ACC road PLAY TRIVIAL PURSUIT!!! TRIVIAL Lyons 81h graders: Do VIRGINS know 
hasn'l been deened since the last time I 
PURSUIT MARATHON SPONSORED visited. Can leeve after 1 on Friday. Call I need 1 Penn. St. student or G.A. tickel
between tennis courts. Cal1277-4745 and what eunuchs are? 
describe (the watch) to daim. BY THE JUNIOR CLASS NOV. 14, Margaret 272· 7864. ARTS & LETIERS BUSINESS SOCIETY 
DESPERATELY!! Please call Paul1603. 
MIDNIGHT-NOV. 17. NOON IN THE READY TO MAKE THE MOVE O.C.? A 

SPONSORS A CAREER NIGHT WITH NEW ORLEANS ROOM AT LA roommate is wanted to share an apart­FOR SALE: 2 GA'S TO THE USC GAME 
..................................................... THE MAY COMPANY TUES.NOV. 13 
FORTUNE PROCEEDS HELP THE ment in Notre Dame Apts. Rent is 

Proofreeder Wanted' Prefer Experience. IN L.A. CHEAP!! CALL NANCY x2996 7:00124 HAYESHEALYSEEADS
WANTED SUICIDE PREVENTION CENTER AND 1 05/mo. plus utilities. For an appointment Must be meticulous! Phone 236-8047. 
HOPE RESCUE MISSION TO PLAY OR to see the ept. call Sheila at 283-3791. 
NEED PENN STATE TIX call11 03 

SPONSOR, CALL BETH 2798 OR NEED RIDE BACK TO N.D. OVER 
KATHY2673 Ride needed to St. Paui/Mpls. for THANKSGIVING BREAK.RETURNING The film UMION MAIDS will be shown Thanksgiving. Willing to leave early!! FROM PITTSFIELD. MASS. ANYTIME Monday November 12 and Tuesday No­Raggedy Ann, You were right, I had a (Sunday or Monday) Call Mary at 277· SATURDAY NOV.24 OR SUNDAY vember 13 at the laforiune Auditorium at 
good time this weekend. we'll have to do it 

2851. NOV.25. CALL PAUL AT 2275 BEFORE WANTED: One Penn St. Ticket, Student 7:00 and 8:30pm. A discussion with Pro­again sometime~ I need two tickets tor Penn State. Please FRIDAY IF YOU CAN HELP. or GA, Frank 277-8649 fessor Ghilarducci will follow the 7:00 Mellon call Barbara at 1346. 
Ride Needed:To Rochester,N. Y. area for showing. The film and the discussion are Thanksgiven Break. Will share usual ex­NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI OVER NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE part of the Social Concerns Film Series. RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY AREA OR penses. Mom's expecting me to carve the BREAK. CAN LEAVE WEDNESDAY. NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE BINGHAMTON. CALL ALLISON AT 
turkey so please help I!! Call Basil at 2275 WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL DAN AT NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE I "THE WOMEN OF NOTRE DAME" Rebecca, 4068. Do it for my mom! 2275 -PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!! need two tickets for Penn State. They Calendar COMING SOON!!! presented Give me a call to discuss upcoming don't have to ba togother and can be by Holy Cross Hall plans (weekend plans, that is)! HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB WANTED: Riders to No. VA/DC for NEED RIDE TO PGH OR AREA MON either student or GA. Please call Larry at Anne FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MQ-TH Thanksgiving. Call MB at 4172. 11/19. CALL BRIAN-1063 1175. Thanks . LUTHER... !!!!! 8-11pm FR-SA8pm-1am 

,.,........ . .... " .. -,, .. . 


The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 11 

Wally Kleine 
Big things expected from big guy 
By TRISH SULLIVAN men year due to knee problems. In his technique. If he continues at this Sports Writer addition to that, he was notified mid­pace, he will certainly be a force to way through the season that there be reckoned with." 
Out there in Texas, they certainly would be a position change. The Kleine cracked into the starting do grow them big. And proof of that coaches had decided that Kleine's lineup this season after garnering is a 6-8, 278-pound force on the Irish assets could better assist the Irish on the Hering Award as the most im· defensive line. Hailing from Mid­the defensive line. But these set­proved defensive player during the land, Texas, Wally Kleine stands backs didn't get Kleine down. 1984 spring drills. The new 3-4 head and shoulders above his "I initially resisted the switch," ad­defense this fall forces him to split teammates. But he realizes that be­mits Kleine. "If they were going to time with Greg Dingens at the right cause of his physical attributes, switch me at all, I thought it would at tackle spot. But Kleine agrees with many expect him to single-handedly least be to the offensive line. Then this approach and sees its benefits. dear out the opponents' offensive when I had to sit out because of my "Our philosophy this year is to get line. knees, it really was a blessing in dis­offthe ball quicker than the offense," 
"Big things are expected of me guise. It made my transition easier elaborates Kleine. "We don't want to due to my size," comments Kleine. because I had time to observe and let the offense make the first move, "A lot of responsibility sometimes learn. The coaches helped me and we want to initiate the action. So the gets thrown my way. People look up Mike Gann really worked with me. defense is working a lot harder. And to me for the mere fact that I'm 6-8, He is one of the best and a super it helps when you can split time. It but then they look to me for leader­leader. I'm pretty pleased with my keeps everyone fresh. It can get a ship, too. I accept that as a chal­progress thus far." little tiring when you are out there lenge." Notre Dame's defensive line for 80 plays a game." 
Rated a top tight end in the Texas coach Rick Lantz is also very pleased With only two opponents left on prep ranks, Kleine was pursued by with Kleine's progress. When Lantz the Irish schedule, Kleine empha· many schools for his talents. But in arrived last spring, the first ques­sizes that he and his teammates the back of his mind, Kleine had al­tions thrown at him were whether haven't given up in the least. Coming ways known where he wanted to go. Kleine could contribute on defense off two big victories on the road, 
"My father never went to Notre or not. But Lantz feels Kleine has an­Kleine feels that the team is begin· Dame, but he was an avid subway swered those questions with his per­ning to jell. alumnus," explains Kleine. "I was formance on the field. "The team needed a good dose of raised in the Notre Dame tradition "Wally played tentatively at first consistency between the offense from the very beginning. So when because he didn't have any defen­and the defense," says Kleine. "And they gave me the opportunity to sive experience," says Lantz. "But he that's what happened at the LSU come and play, I just couldn't pass it has made progress each week. game. We have to put any loss be­up." We've noticed that he has the in­hind us and re-group. There is a 
Kleine came to the Notre Dame stinct and aggressiveness to play good positive 'attitude on the team. campus in the fall of 1982. But unfor­defense. And he also has the temper­And we're going to give it our all." tunately, it wasn't the best of ament to practice. He practices to welcome~ when he arrived. Kleine get better. Rather than just going ended up sitting~~this entire fresh-through the motions, he works on 

Nebraska 


•------COUPON ------1 •

1 1 moves IntoI 1No. 1spot
GRANooPENINGWEEK 
I SHARONE'S I 
A.ssodatcdPressI BOUTIQUE The Nebraska Cornhuskers, who
I I 
were No. l for three weeks earlier in the season, have regained the topI TOWN & COUNTRY I spot in Tbe Associated Press college SHOPPING CENTER I football poll, while Wa.~hington
I slipped to eighth after four weeks atI MlSHA W:'AJ(A JN I the top and Virginia cracked the Top
I " • 1 Twemy fonhe """lmeIn 32 ye"'
· 
LADIES' DESIGNER I Poll on page 10 I CLOTHING • LEATHER • JEWELRY I 
With seven members of lastI I week's Top Twenty losing over the 1 weekend, there was considerable
25% OFF WITH THIS COUPON 
shuffling in this week's poll, with 

TO ALL ND & SMC STUDENTS
I 1 
South Carolina and Brigham Young·
I OFFER GOOD THRU DEC. 15, 1984 I the only remaining unbeaten teams ­moving up to challenge Nebraska, Miami and Georgia dropping to the Second Ten and Iowa and West Vir·
L-----· COUPON ·-----J
ginia falling out of the Top Twenty.clip and sa\•e-cllp and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip 1» 
The new poll raised the possibility ofa I·2 matchup between Nebraska and South Carolina In the Orange



i Counseline f 
Bowl. However, Nebraska still must play Oklahoma · the Cornhuskers need only a tie Saturday to represent

I= 239-7793 t ~ 
the Big Eight In Miami · while South 

; Anxious about Formals/SYR's? --try tape 18 ~ 
Carolina has to play Navy and Clem· son, both on the road. 
~ Upset about grades ? --try tape 35 or 44 ~ 
While previously unbeaten Wash­

C -lboT-'CI 
ington wa.~ losing to Southern ~ ~ ht-lp ...u..... ~ California 16-7 -the victory vaulted
= , ,.,... ., bl~ 
'CI 6 l'loro,_l bt~ g, ~ the Trojans from 14th to seventh · 
• .........,.. ....u.. _ ..... roou-~
111 Nebraska trounced Kansas, 41·7,
[ ! ::::: ::: =!ncttft CYlt\cl• ~ 
and climbed from second place to 

; : u.leTetuwU,q J..louty aDd ..,.. to Deal Wlth It ~ 1 
live at the Notre Dame ACC No. 1 with 37 of S9 first-place votes
c: u ::.:.....:;:-;. Othft• "' Ill II Dot.... SUllo Ill and 1,148 ofa possible 1, I80 pointsa._ 10 r-Io -llf,. ;! 
11 IIIlo ...._.w.ltty .... from a nationwide panel of sports "'t1 lO AMtoty ..a hiiUth Ve11 to tope lU.th lt fP 
I» JJ .., to DN.l vt.tb LoDeun.., ~ writers and sportscasters. The 
., JJ ...... PHn with opening act:
Row to (0 
Cornhuskers are 9· I, having lost to :-is ~-=--~:;~:;=-~..Confldoneo n Syracuse on Sept. 29. 
~ :U ..luatlon bft'c:te.. • .a= 
11) ,", C..l"' wttb Stl'..l I» South Carolina, 9·0, downed No.
THE COMA TEENS
r-•• S.• klo-Chanc.. UKl sneu•• ::S 
60 Malo S.• lolo--cbanp• aacl Stn•••• 11 Florida State, 38-26 -the W LHmtq to Accept Younolf 
11 ...t h thuapJ aad ,._ to Ueo It Gamecocks led 38·7 at one point en l'O l•ht•U.on or FridayNovember 16th route to becoming the first team to
Lrnt U 11o1t to C.,. vlth a froll.an lelatlonlhlp 

M Death anc1 Dytna win nine games in the school's 91·
•s Undultandlnl Cil'lef 

fO .......... Frhncl year football history · and shot from 
160 EarlJ Slpa• of an 'alcohOl P'l'obl.. 
8:00pm

Ul loapoNlbla O.C:lllona about Dr'l.nUn1 fifth to second with 11 first-place 602 s.u U•arU.vona•• 
votes and l, 104 points.
4l2 b:...l•• of Contnct lullcllna 

4J1 What h Deprou~on Texas' 29· I5 loss to Houston 
U.Z llotll to Deol with P,.pn..ton 

4)l ~•••ton aa a Llfutyla dropped the longhorns from third 411 IK•tne lndo,..1•"t frc. Pannu 
Tickets on sale NOW at all ACC Ticket 
4179 Dultna vltll Ale...ttodc Paroat• place to lOth and BYU, 10-0 after a 
4191 Sutetdal Crl&la 

4fl llocopalatna Suicidal tn Ott,an
Pot..,Uala outlets and the SAB Record Store 34-3 triumph over San Diego State, 
Ln Sutetdal Crht•

4tl Hdplnc 5~ a went from fourth to third. The
in Lafortune 
Cougars received the other 1I first· place ballots and 1,096 points. 


The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1984-page 12 


Managers and trainers perform important job 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
They work from five to six hours each day. Their responsibilities in­clude everything from making sure managers assist the varsity sport with the greatest need. Junior managers run the lockerroom and are responsible for the set-up of equipment. Each senior is in charge of every aspect ofone of the 14 var­and functions that you could write a book about them." 

Student managers are similiar to student trainers in that both work long hours in order to assist the ath­letes. 

managers and trainers work, and thus have a good relationship with them. 
"They definitely help us out a lot," says Irish defensive back Brandy Wells. "We have a good relationship ofbasketball season tickets. 
Few, if any, student managers or trainers are working solely for the money, however. 
"The money is irrelevant. I do it for the enjoyment ofmeetingpeople 

equipment is in the right place to sity sports. "We work five to six hours every with them and we're pretty good and being with the athletes," says making sure the players are on the day of the week except Sunday," friends." Hockett. "There's no way I would 
The student managers with the
right bus. They receive some fringe says senior Vince Hockett, who has The monetary rewards that stu-give it up."
most work and responsibilities,
benefits, but little or no pay. been working as a trainer for four dent managers and trainers receive Though student managers and 
however, are the three seniors cho­
Such is the life of a student years. "We are constantly working. are not great. Managers get one set trainers often do not get as much 
sen to be the best by the managers
manager or trainer. It takes a lot ofeffort and dedication of football and basketball season recognition as they deserve, they are 
themselves.

Student managers and trainers to get things done. You must have a tickets as juniors and seniors, but essential to the Notre Dame athletic perform different functions. desire to work." only seniors are actually paid. program, nonetheless.
"(The managers) evaluate them­
However, the two jobs are similar in Afew trainers receive pay as fresh-"They are really hard workers and
selves until they get down to the top "(The student managers) even 
one aspect: both jobs require dedi­men, and most upperclassmen are an invaluable commodity," says
three. Those three are the head work on Sundays to get things done
cated individuals willing to make a usually get a base amount of money Whitmer. "It would be impossible to 
manager, the equipment manager, that they didn't have time for earlier
lot of sacrifices for the Notre Dame added to their student accounts. do what we do without them. We
and the personnel manager," says in the week," adds Yonto.
athletic program. Senior trainers also receive one set just wouldn't get the job done."
Joe Yonto, special assistant to the Working that long each day, it isStudent trainers must come in an 
athletic director. not easy for student managers andhour before practice begins in order 
trainers to keep up with their
to help tape the players. During "The head manager (Mike Har­studies.

practice, they're spread all over the vey) is like a business manager. He's "I still take a full class load so lotsfield assisting the coaches, giving in charge of the field and does of things don't get done," says Hock­water to the players and administer­whatever needs to be done," Yonto ett. "I end up spending a lot of late 

All you
ing immediate aid when injuries oc­explains. "He's responsible for the nights studying. I get a lot less cur. After practice, student trainers team's meals and rooms when they sleep," he says, adding, "I could behelp with treatments such as travel. He's also in charge oforganiz­getting better grades if I had morewhirlpools and ice massages. Often 

have to do

ing the other managers. time."
they end up remaining long after the 

However, the Notre Dame train­
players have gone to dinner. 

"The equipment manager (Mike ing statf realizes that academics ul­Head trainer John Whitmer Kennelly) makes sure that all the timately must come first.
knows very well the value of the stu­equipment is on the trucks and

dent trainers to the varsity athletic "We work with a great group of
shipped to the right places. There 
program. statftrainers.John (Whitmer) is very
are approximately 125 players, so
"I can't say how much they're open," says Hockett. "Academics
it's a lot ofwork.

worth. There's only five ofus on the come first with him. He won't let (training) statf and there are over you get yourself into trouble. He'll
"The personnel manager (Bird
700 varsity athletes," said Whitmer. let us take a couple of days off if we
Larkin) works in the office. He does
"We just couldn't handle all of the need to."
anything that's required in the office
bodies without them." According to Hockett, working as
such as typing and scheduling."
A student manager's job differs a trainer does help one aspect of from that of a student trainer. 
It is clear that with all of their re-academics. It serves to break up the Whereas trainers have basically the monotony ofschoolwork.
sponsibilities, the student managers
same duties as one another, "It's a good breakfrom the normal 
layout staff people

are an important part of the athletic 
managers have different respon­routine. I get to meet a totally differ­
program.

siblities. Managers start from the ent group of people, a lot of good 
INTRODUCTORY MEETING -7:00 Thursday Nov.15,1984
bottom and must work their way to "(The student managers) are as people," he says. the top. valuable as any team member," says Notre Dame players appreciate all 3rdf/oor, LaFortune Student Center As freshm~n and sophomores, Yonto. "They have so many duties the long hours that the student 
................................................. 
• •+J
i• 2/1 ~( :! ~ 

: [ IMPORTANT ANNouNcEMENT 1 _r :. :
:.· Students -Ifyou are staying on campusfor : : Thanksgiving, it will be celebrated with a t· • culinaryfeast at South Dining Hall. •
i :

Dining service will start at 1:30pm and • continue to 4:00pm. Call6147for table .• reservations. : 

Punch Reception In the 

•

Lobby -before the Meal 
:
l\ 

-Large Screen TV's ­and Guests are Welcome ! 
Faculty-Staff-Families 

to enjoy the $6.50 per person 
festivities of the day 
•
: 

HAPPY THANKSGIVING TO ALL I
•
: 
• 

~···················..·····..···········..········ 

The Observer Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 13 

----------~~~----------~-~---------------------------­
The Observer 

Indiana State wins for third time 


Wrestlers finish 7th at MSU Invite 
By MARK B.JOHNSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Having earned a seventh-place finish in its first test of the season, last weekend's Michigan State Invita­tional, the Notre Dame wrestling team now must concentrate on the future in preparation for next Satur­day's Michiana Tourney in Dowagiac, Mich. 
·Indiana State, with a program that Irish coach Fran McCann spent eight years building only to abandon at the end of last season for Notre Dame, outdistanced the rest of the field with 141 1-4 points to win its third MSU Invite title in the eight­year history ofthe event. 
Host Michigan State settled for second place with 113 points, while Central Michigan rounded out the top three with 100 points. 
Eastern Michigan placed fourth with 86 1-2, followed by Eastern Illi­nois, 67; Ferris State, 62 1-2; Notre Dame, 42 1-2; Northern Michigan, 41; and Brockport State of New York, 36. 
Although a seventh place finish 
might be construed by many as a less 
than satisfactory finish, it earned the 
Irish something that their up-and­
coming program previously had 
lacked -respect. 
"It was evident this weekend that 
there was a new attitude towards 
Notre Dame wrestling," said Mark 
Fisher, graduate assistant coach. 
"Everyone demonstrated a desire to 
win and a new-found pride in the 
team; we left the tournament 
looking forward to the new Notre 
Dame wrestling program." 
"I was very pleased with the 
wrestlers' performances last 
weekend," added Irish assistant 
coach John Azevedo. "They showed 
a lot of enthusiasm and improve­
ment in their technique, which 
proves to me that they are really 
concentrating in the wrestling 
room." 
sophomore Greg Fleming, last 
season's 'Outstanding Freshman,' 
could manage only seventh place, as 
he was defeated by Rick Moeggen­
berg ofCentral Michigan, 7-6, in the 
first round and Greg Wright of 
Brockport State, 13-6, in the con­
solations. 
junior Eric Crown, also a fourth 
seed, provided some hope for the 
Irish at 131 pounds: as he downed 
Ferris State's Marty Foote, 9-4, in the 
opening round to advance to the 
semifinals. Hampered by an ankle in­
jury, Crown's hopes were dashed by 
Central Michigan's Andy Brydon, 
10-7, and he settled for fourth place 
after forfeiting his consolation 

Two ex-Colts showup at Stars practice 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -When the Bal­
timore Stars assembled for their first 
practice as a new team, there were 
two ex-Colts on the sidelines ofVet­
eran's Stadium looking for work. 
According to a report in yester­
day's Baltimore Eventng Sun 
ex-Colts Derrick Hatchett and 
Rickey Porter were at the weekend 
practice and will likely be offered 
contracts by the Stars. Both players 
call Baltimore home and both say 
they miss playing for a home team. 
"The Stars are appealing because they're coming to Baltimore and I still live in Baltimore," said Hatchett, who held the position ofcornerback with the Colts. "I want to play in Bal­timore. I'd be crazy not to. Then maybe I could clean up my reputa­tion." 
Hatchett left the Colts after a stormy siege with Frank Kush. Kush fined and suspended Hatchett for missing practices. 

match to Robert Beck of Eastern Michigan. 
Freshman 139-pounder Ron Wis­niewski had a rude introduction to NCAA wrestling, as he placed ninth after losing to third-seeded Ed Lag­ness of Central Michigan, 9-2, and Paul Ferretti ofEastern Michigan, fall at 3:05. 
At 142 pounds, senior Don Heintzelman had his hands full, as he could pull out only a sixth-place finish. After dropping a 6-0 match to Central Michigan's fourth-seeded Joe Mills, Heintzelman advanced through the first round of consola­tions by forfeit over Eastern Illinois' Keith Presely, only to lose a 13·11 squeaker to Eastern Michigan's Keith Movehouse. 
Also placing sixth was junior I 51­
pounder Luke DiSabato, who lost his 
opening match to number-one seed 
Charles Root of Michigan State by 
fall in the first period. DiSl\bato came 
back in the consolations to defeat 
Ferris State's Scott Smith, 8-5, but he 
was not as fortunate against fourth­
seeded George Bassette of Indiana 
State, losing 8-2. 

Freshman Ken Kasler emerged 
fro~ the weekend with a 2-1 record, 
but it earned him only a fifth-place 
finish in the 163-pound class. Kasler 
lost his first match to third-seeded 
Chuck Undegratf of Indiana State, 
14-5, but he toppled Northern Mic­
higan's Bob Mariucci, 8-3, and Ferris 
State's Bob Cremer, 10-3, in the con­
solations to finish ona winning note. 
In a similar situation, 167-pound 
sophomore Tom Ryan lost his first 
match to fourth-seeded Ozzie Porter 
of Eastern Illinois, 6-3, then came 
back to defeat Ferris State's Keith 
Briggs, 5-3, and Central Michigan's 
Scott Wesland, 10-9, to finish fifth in the tournament. 

At 182 pounds, senior captain and second-seeded Phil Baty earned a semifinal berth with his 10-2 pasting of Ferris State's Dave Blakely. But he was unable to overcome either Central Michigan's third-seeded Carleton Kinhade or Eastern Mic­higan's first-seeded Rick Winekoff, losing 6-2 and 8-1, respectively, to the two, and was forced to be con­tent with fourth place. 
Junior 195-pounder John Krug dropped his opening match to fourth-seeded Kevin Carlson of Indiana State, 12-6, but defeated Brockport State's Dennis Leonard, 3­1, in his first consolation match. Krug then lost a close 2-1 decision to third-seeded Dave Dopier of Mic­higan State and had to settle for seventh place, ending the Irish scoring as Notre Dame forfeited the unlimited class for lack of an entry. 
"We are making progress," said 
McCann. "We beat two teams that 
we have never before beaten 
(Northern Michigan and Brockport 
State), and almost everyone won a 
match." 

"The wrestlers are eager to better 
themselves, and because of this, we 
should improve with every match," 
Azevedo added. "I expect great 
things from this program." 

After doing reasonably well in Sat­
urday's competition, the Irish 
should emerge from the Michiana 
Tourney with even more confi­
dence, not to mention experience, 
as they look towards their home· 
opener, November 24 against Olivet 
Nazarene. Michiana Tourney action 
will begin at 10 a.m. next Saturday at 
Southwestern Michigan University. 

wbe JKniglyt& ofUte Qtastle 

Men's Hair Styling at itifinest monutes from campus 
~-; ­
-

272-0312 277-1691 
Haircut shampoo 

'i-f'i .~ 5 l't:rrac.:c: Lane: 
blowdry


(St. Rc..l. 25) 
.-\no~~ from Martm's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 
~ 
-. . 

............................... . ............... .. 

Tuesday, November 13, 1984 -page 14 



Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
Robert Parish scored 11 of his 18 points in the third quarter, including seven as the Boston Celtics recorded 13 un­answered tallies to defeat the Indiana Pacers 132·11 5 in the NBA last night. -AP 
Interhall and club basketball team captains will be meeting this week in the football auditorium at the ACC. Men's interhall captains will meet today at 4:30 p.m. and women's captains tomorrow at 5 p.m. Coed captains will meet tomorrow at 
4:30 p.m. and club captains will meet Thursday at 4:30p.m. -Tbe Observer 
Interhall hockey captains will be meeting 

todayat 5 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. -Tbe Observer 
Sign-ups for the SMC Turkey Trotwm be 

accepted until Friday at 5 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. The three-mile cross-country race will be held Monday, Nov. 19, and is open to anyone who is interested. A Ill advance registration fee is required to cover the cost ofawards. For more information, call the Saint Mary's Athletic Department at 284-'5548. -Tbe Observer 
Basketball and hockey officialsare needed 

for the interhall season. Anyone interested should apply at the NVA office. -lbe Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 

through Thursday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly.-Tbe Observer 
• 
i CHRISTMAS SPECIAL I ! !• NOTRE DAME AVE. APARTMENTS f 
: ONE AND ONE ONLY! 2 bedroom : : furnished apartment available with a :i FREE months rent for December ! YES ! i : It will be a Merry Christmas ! :
•

•
• : For more information call and save :
! (219) 234-6647 ! 
: . 


------~ 


NEED A JOB? 
the S.A.B. is now hiring: in search ofa DRIVER 
• 
must be financial aid approved 

• 
stop by SAB offices for more info-2nd Floor Lafortune 








T0 day_______
r_u_e_s_d_a_y_,N_o_v_em_b_e_r_1_3_._1_9_s_4__P_a_g_e.._l....j5 
Doonesbury 

The' Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 36 Walleror 66 Arabian 9 Excel Paid Domino gulf 10 Blood: pref. notices 39 Nonsense 67 Tapestry 11 Cockeyed 
4 PiecE' of 40 Choice 68 Hindu god 12 Fodder sculpture 43 Bring on 69 Incline 13 Tickle 9 Iranian oneself 70 Vaticina-20 Contended title tors 21 Saguaros 13 "-Rhythm" 44 Consort 71 Wind dir. 25 Beat or of Zeus color 
14 Glyceride 
45 Appear DOWN 26 Alg., e.g. 
15 Anatomical 
46 Thalia's 1 Gr. market· 28 Leftovers 
membrane 

sister place 29 Religious
16 Dorothy's 
48 Spire 2 Showers observance 
dog 

ornament. affection 30 Fencing
17 Road crews 
50 Columnist 3 Summer blade 
18 Chin. port 
Bombeck weasel 31 Skin: suff. 
19 Choice 
53 Indian 4 Take-out 32 Samoan 
22 Celerity 
craft order port
23 Comics' 
words 33 Circlet 
Kett 

58 Choice 5 Norse king 34 O.T. book 
24-Collins 
63 Take a 6 Paris 35 Gull-like bus budget bird 27 Crossed 64 Clamor item 37 Article the plate 65 Seed 7 View 38 Waterless 32 God of war covering 8 Beginnings 41 Bay window 
8C510&5, ld/EN I FO/JNOW THe /JABY lXJC CO/.L£6t IF PHYSICIAN$, I MA!Jt A C1M+1f!WIJT70 CfflR71£ RNI55T/NOFF-SHOfi!l3' fllt/C4710N 7rJ AN'IONE 
WITH :llt,tXJOl 

Berke Breathed 
UtJT!N, Yt?CI 
llrrtl "f1?ot.t.OP... MAmM 1 KNOW~~~ 1711/NK AfJ()fff Y()l) YOU HIIVt 1WO I f'(/ T 
1Ht«lf?ON--MY W(lfUH­
llss Hf/Sf!lt
\ 
oN mrs 


Bloom County 

Garry Trudeau 
I CANTR!iNe613 ON THAT (])MMIT­Irf3NT. /Jf3AN fKN3Y. THISC1li.Ef£'5 OPEN AOMISSION'3 POUCYHAS A 
lAST 

Pf?OUO TRAOIT/ON THAT 
THURSfJAY Ga35 ALL TH/3 WAY BACK 7lJ .. 7V.. m~~t:J 
I 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 


The Far Side G.;:try Larson 

42 Relay 57 Fitzgerald 
segment or Logan 47 Stadia 58 Reside 49 Sherbet 59 Place of 51 Marianne bliss 
or Archie 60 Impart 52 Blazing 61 Despot 54 Demean 62 Pianist 55 Nostril Myra 56 Oil source 63 Squealer 
Monday's Solution 

Campus 

•9 
a.m.-4 p.m. -University Libraries BookSale, Ubrary Concourse, Also Wednesday. 

•12-1 
p.m. -Debate, "'lbe Merits or Demerits of the Public Funding of Private Education," Linda Tarr-Whelan ofthe National Education Association vs. Laurence Uzzell of LEARN, Sponsored by 'lbomas). White Center for l.aw and Government, Room 101 Law School. 

•12:10-12:5'5-Art 
Noon Talks, "Renaissance Drawings From the Ambrosiana," Robert Coleman, Print, Drawing & Photography Gallery, and Douglas Bradley in the Ethnographic Gallery. 


•12:15p.m.-Faculty 
Forum, ..-Ibe RuleofLawand the Welfare States," Prof. Noel Reynolds, Brigham Young University, Board Room, Sponsored by Col­lege of Business Administration. 

•I 
& 2 p.m. -Information Sessions, Georgetown Law Center, Career & Placement Services Office, Basement of Ubrary, Sponsored by ND Prelaw So­

•4: 
I'5 p.m.-Lecture, "Markets & Families: Allies or Enemies?" Prof. Noel Reynolds, Ubrary Auditorium. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Workshop, "Time Management," Pat Dunn & Mary Louse Kerwin, Counseling & Psych Services, Sponsored by Counseling & Psych Services~ Free. 

•7 
& 8:30p.m. -FUm, "Union Maids," LaFortune Auditorium. 


•7-9 
p.m. -The Rome Program, Prof. Peter Checca, SMC, Room 232 Moreau Hall. 

•7 
p.m.-General Meeting, Knights ofColumbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus, Free. 

•
7 p.m. -GroundZero Meeting, CenterforSocial Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero. 

•7 
p.m.-General Meeting, Hispanic American Or­ganization, Room 2-D LaFortune, Sponsored by Hispanic American Organization. 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, Arts & Letters Business Society, May Company and Others, All Majors Welcome, 124 Hayes Healy. Sponsored by Arts & Letters Busi­ness Society, Free. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "'lbe Environment & the Elections," Prof. Kellenberg, ND Law School, New Orleans Room, LaFortune, Sponsored by Environ· mental Concerns Organization. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "'lbe Audit & Consulting Firm of the Future," Grant Gregory, Chairman of the Board , Touche Ross & Co., Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Fllm, "IfYou Love This Planet," CSC Multi-purpose Room, Sponsored by ND Right-to­


Life. 
•7:30 
& 8:4'5 p.m.-Tuesday Night Film Series, "Carmen," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -CCE Annual Faculty Seminar Lecture Series, "Academical Village: Jefferson's University," Garry Wills, Welsh Visiting Professor, CCE Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Meeting, Ladies ofNotre Dame, Prof. James Bellis, NO, Library Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m.-Crown-Minow Lecture, "The Relgious Peace Movement in Israel," Yahezkel l.;mdau, Reli­gious Peace Movement . jerusalem, Israel, Room 278 Galvin, Sponsored by Theology Dept.


.. 


Tuesday, November 13, 1984-page 16

SRorts 
Hockey team drops two at Michigan-Dearborn 
By ED DOMANSKY 

minors for roughing as well as 10· Willette's first of two goals on a After both teams got off to slow picked up the Wolve tallies, Sports Writer minute and game-misconducts. power play 39 seconds later moved starts, Notre Dame managed to grab capitalizing once while shorthanded the Wolves within one. its 1·0 lead when Mike McNeill stole and once while on the power play. DEARBORN, Mich. · The Notre Co-captain Bob Thebeau suffered 
the puck at the Dearborn blueline Both teams scored twice in theDame hockey team ran into a packof a severe shoulder injury early in Dearborn then struck three times and scored on a breakaway. 
Friday's contest and missed the final second period, leaving the Irish still 
unfriendly Wolves at the University in a span of I :27. Mike Humitz' The Wolves came out flying in the of Michigan-Dearborn over the two periods. In addition, he didn't rebound shot sneaked between Irish behind by three goals, 5·2. Doug
second period and tied the score weekend. The Wolverines utilized a see action Saturday and may be lost goalie Tim Lukenda's legs at 13:35 Hervey put the Wolves up, 4-0, just 
just 1:41 into the period on a 2:02 into the period. Steve Ely andfierce, aggressive checking attack to for several weeks. and proved to be the winner. breakaway goal by Rick LaBurn. But 
Whitmore then connected for Notre

take two victories from the Irish, 5-4 The losses put Notre Dame's by the end of the period, the Irish and6-3. record at 2-2 as it prepares to visit Dave Waldbillig scored two goals Dame to pull the Irish to within two.
had gone back in front, 2-1. when
for the Irish, with his second tally of But Tony Macari's goal at 15:52 gave Dearborn proved on Friday night the College ofSt. Thomas in St. Paul, Waldbillig alertly tapped a rebound
the game, 13 seconds earlier, having the Wolves back their three-goal ad­
that hard work and determination Minn., weekend. Dearborn raised its between Wolve goalie Chuck lr·tied the score at 4-4. vantage.
can pay off as it rallied for four goals record to 4-4. win's legs after a shot by Mark An­in the final period to come away 
Friday, the Irish led, 1-0, after the "We didn't bother to clear the quillare came loose. Lukenda collected .24 saves on with its one-goal victory. first period and 2-1 after the second. zone or play good defense," said Saturday, Dearborn picked up Friday and added another 38 on Sat· 
Saturday, Notre Dame found out But in the third period, the lights Notre Dame head coach Lefty Smith. right where it left off Friday, jumping urday. Irwin stopped 23 shots for that falling behind early is not a good went out on Notre Dame. "We didn't move the puck, and out to its three-goal lead by the end Dearborn in the opening game with thing to do, especially when on the 
Chapman increased the lead to 3· when we fail to do that, we're just of the opening period. Craig Ait· ·John Guzina d away .26 turning away
road. The Irish surrendered three 1 just 1:22 into the final period. Ryan another ballclub." tama, Dean Davis and Bob Water 26 Irish shots on Saturday.goals in the openingstanza and were 
unable overcome the early deficit. 
Penn State tried the same hard· hitting strategy one week earlier, but was not able to stop Notre Dame. The Wolves, however, managed to make the strategy work. And with their physical play, they successfully dismantled the quick, pass-oriented Notre Dame attack. 
Friday, the Irish were somewhat intimidated by the Wolves' playing style. On Saturday, however, they adjusted a little, but still couldn't find what was needed to get the puck in the net. 
"They played much more physi­cally than we had expected," said co-captain Brent Chapman. "Friday, I think we were intimidated, but Sat· urday I think we looked better. We just couldn't put it all together. Also, we have a lot offreshmen and I think this weekend they learned a lot about what college key hockey is really like." 
The fast action and hard hitting of both nights was made even more ap­parent by the large number of penalties whistled against each team. Both teams were penalized 11 times on Friday, while on Saturday Dearborn received 18 penalties to Notre Dame's 13. 
The most noticeable incident of the series occured Saturday night in the second period when Notre 

The Notre Dame hockey team, shown here in action one week
Dame's Frank O'Brien and Dear­

ago against Penn State, dropped a pair ofgames to the University of
born's Joe Chartier·. engaged in a 

Michigan-Dearborn over the weekend, 5-4 and 6-3. The pass·
scuffie. Both received double 


Success of cross-country team is important 
It's not too often that a Notre Dame athletic team gets the chance to compete directly for a national champion­ship, but that's what will happen next Monday when the cross-country team travels to the NCAA Championships at Penn State. Although the team will not be one of the favorites to take the crown, it has a good chance offinish­ing in the top halfof the 22-team field. 
Just the fact that Coach Joe Plane's runners even have a chance to compete for the title is a huge accomplishment in itself. Over the past few years, only the fencing and wo­men's tennis teams have had a shot at a national title. AI· though no Notre Dame team actually has been No. 1 in the country since 1978 when Mike DeCicco's fencers earned the honor, several Irish programs have won national recognition for their efforts. 
Unfortunately, most people around the country · and even among the student body · make a judgement about the Notre Dame athletic department based on the perfor­mance of the two "major" sports, namely football and bas­ketball. Many people, therefore, will judge the fall sports season as afailure just because the football team hasn't lived up to their high expectations. 
This is terribly unfair to the cross-country team and to the other sports that are dubbed "minor sports" because they don't bring in the revenue that the major sports do. "Personally, I find the term 'minor sport' very offensive," says Piane. "Try to tell the kids on the team that their sport is minor. I'd rather call it a non-revenue sport." 
Call it what you will, but, realistically, you cannot argue that a non-revenue sport is as important to the athletic de· partment as the football program which is supposed to help finance the other sports with its profits from televi­sion and bowl games. That's why they call football a revenue-producing sport. 
Still, the success of the cross-country team, the fencing team, the tennis team, etc., is nothing to ignore. They might 
Mike Sullivan 

Editor 


not bring in the bucks or put the words "Notre Dame" on the lips of millions ofpeople around the country, but they do have a more subtle importance. 
"Obviously, our performance next week is going to be most important to the seven kids that are running," ex­plains Piane, "but it's also going to be very important to the administration because it helps their reputation as a well­rounded department. It shows them that they are getting a return on their investment in the program. 
"It's also important to people around the country who love Notre Dame, especially alumni, who look in their papers and see that Notre Dame is doing well in cross country. It lets them know that Notre Dame is supporting its teams, and some of them will decide to contribute money to a department that looks like it's doing some­thing." 
In recent years. especially since Gene Corrigan became athletic director in 1981, the entire athletic program has grown both in the number of varsity teams and in the amount of success. Volleyball and lacrosse have become varsity sports within the last five years, while departmental support for most of the other sports. especially women's basketball, also has increased. 
The support has helped. The cross-country team was 
ranked in the top 20 almost all season. Women's tennis, the only Division II program, has finished third in the nation the past two years. The fencing team is perennially one of the top-two teams in the country. The lacrosse team is pos­sibly the best team west of the Appalachians. The swim­ming teams are powers in their respective conferences. The soccer team plays some of the best teams in the country and usually serves as tough competiton for them. And the list goes on through baseball, golf, field hockey, wrestling, track, etc. 
Obviously, the increased success of the non-revenue sports hasn't put as much money in the athletic depart· ment's coffers as, say, a major bowl or an NCAA Tourna· ment berth would. And it's doubtful that anybody has become a subway alumnus because of the fencing team's tradition ofexcellence. But the "depth" in the athletic de­partment can only enhance the idea of Notre Dame's search for excellence. 
It will be a long time, if ever, before any non-revenue sport approaches the importance of football and basket· ball. This has happened at other schools like Stanford where sports like volleyball and baseball flourish, but the mystique ofNotre Dame grew out ofthe success offootball and basketball. Unless there is a major swing in the popularity ofa third sport, it is doubtful that there will be much change in the top two. 
Nevertheless, the continued success ofthe non-revenue sports · whether it be on a national scope, in a conference, or in the Midwest · is important to the reputation of the Notre Dame athletic department. Being just a "football school" or a "basketball school" is not the sign of an out­standing athletic department. Having a representative team in many different sports is. 
Don't think that Gene Corrigan isn't very pleased with the cross-country team's performance this year. 





