

Reeling Irish take on undefeated Gamecocks 
ND must stop veer in order to break two-game losing streak 
By THERON ROBERTS 
successful coach that he is and has the talent at South Carolina this Sports Writer season to run it very effectively. Carolina is eighth in the nation in scoring with an average of 32.6 points per game and 12th in total 
The Gamecocks ofSouth Carolina are the next team to invade offense with 425 yards per outing. The Gamecocks have an Notre Dame Stadium, and they will be trying to extend their incredible amount ofdepth in the offensive backfield and have five-game winning streak over a team that has seen its brighter been able to utilize a lot a players, keeping fresh people on the field moments reduced to only a dim glimmer ofhope that the tide will at all times. turn around. Notre Dame is in the midst of a two-game slide at Morrison has had success using a dual-quarterback system, h'ome. The last time the Irish lost three games in a row in Notre doubling the effectiveness of juniors Allen Mitchell and Mike Hold. Dame Stadium was in 1960 underJoe Kuharich, when the Irish lost This will be the second time this season that the Irish will have four in a row and finished 2-8 for the season. faced the problem ofthe opponent having two good signal-callers 
South Carolina is in its second year of rebuilding under head lO choose from. Notre Dame was able to contain Missouri's coach Jim Morrison. The team did not have a lot ofexperience last combination of Marlon Adler and Warren Seitz in its last victory. season, as the Gamecock roster was packed with underclassmen. Mitchell is the starter, and has proven that he can run as well as Last year the Irish travelled down to Columbia, S.C., and handed the throw. The 6-0, 175-pounder has completed 37 of65 passes for Gamecocks a 30-6 defeat. But this year, the South Carolina players 559 yards and five touchdowns, while giving up only four have come back and appear to be using last season as a building interceptions. He poses a threat to run with the football also. He block towards their 5-0 record. has accumulated 209 rushing yards, but his actual figure is less 
"I think last year's outcome will help us in this game. We got so because ofyardage lost in quarterback sacks. far behind in the first half that we were playing catch-up after Notre Hold has performed well in a backup role. Although he throws Dame's first five possessions," says Morrison. "The second half was less frequently, he is still a threat running with the ball. Hold has an improvement, however. I think last year's outcome will help us connected on 14 of 20 passes for just under 300 yards, well over 20 in this game." yards per completion. At 5-11, 195 pounds, Hold is well-suited to 
So far this season, the Gamecocks have beaten Georgia and run the football and has gained six yards a carry, again neglecting Pittsburgh, and are well-deserving of their 11th-place national yardage lost via sacks. ranking. Even though it is already halfway through the season, South Carolina has a quartet of running backs to chose from however, South Carolina will be playio.g its first game away (rom when running the veer option, and has balanced the number of home. times each one carries the ball very well. 
"I'm not concerned about playing away from Columbia," offers The top two rushers from '83 return, juniors Thomas Dendy and Morrison. "I think sometimes you play a little better on the road Kent Hagood, but are only in second and fourth positions in than you do at home." rushing yardage this season although they have over 1,700 and 
Ifyou happen to be on the other side of the fence, though, it is 1,200 career rushing yards, respectively. Hagood has 236 yards hard not to notice that the two consecutive losses have devastated ( 6. 9 yards per carry average) and Dendy ha'i rushed for 186 yards the morale ofthe fans and caused the Notre Dame players to lose at ( 6.2 average). Both are compact, but possess strength as well as least a little confidence in their own talents and in the abilites of speed. the coaches. Even though injuries in the beginning of the season got both 

Injury-plagued Mike Larkin finally will get his chance to take field once again 
ByJERRY MELIA Francisco and Jon Askin. Larkin, like his team, had a Sports Writer very successful career while he attended Moeller. His individual honors include being a consensus prep 
Many things haven't gone right for the Notre Dame all-American after being mentioned in theParade, football team the last two weeks. Not only did it lose Adidas, National High School Athletic Association, and important games to both Miami and Air Force, but the Catholic All-America squads. Larkin was also a team also has lost many key players in starting three-year starter at the linebacker position where he positions because ofinjuries. earned all-city, all-state, and all-Greater Cincinnati 
Although the Irish have many starters and other League recognition. His efforts also helped the important players on the injury list, there is one player Crusaders to unbeaten seasons and state titles in his returning from the disabled list who could turn this junior and senior years. 
· team around both in the physical and and the psycho­Obviously, this American Studies major hold fond logical sense. This athlete is Mike Larkin. memories ofhis high school years. "At Moeller we Larkin, a 6-1, 221-pound senior, will return to the never worried about winning or losing," says Larkin, lineup for the first time since the conclusion of the "it was taken for granted." 1982 season. Two major injuries have kept him out for Larkin came to Notre Dame the same year as Faust the last year-and-a-half. He did not play a single minute with similar ideas ofsuccess. However, these hopes last season because he broke his arm during preseason have not materialized a" yet. drills. The unfortunate coincidence about this injury In his freshman season, Larkin played in alll2 was that he broke it in exactly the same place he did games while seeing a great deal of time in the latter just prior to the end of the 1983 spring drills. He will part ofthe year. He played mostly behind Mark receive an extra year of eligibility because of the Zavagnin at weakside linebacker during the 1981 injury. 
campaign. The Cincinnati native is one offour current Notre In 19H2. tht· Howard Hall resident had a great Dame players to play under Gerry Faust at :\1ocller High School. The others are Mark Brooks. Hiawatha see LARKIN, page 2 
NO linebacker 
"We are playing a team with a lot of momentum and we don't  
have that," says Irish head coach Gerry Faust. "But that doesn't  
mean that things won't change."  
Another thing that remains the same for Notre Dame this week is  
that it must overcome some key injuries in order to perform well  
on Saturday.  
South Carolina's offense against Notre Dame's defense:  
The Irish will have another chance this Saturday to prove themselves against an option offense after the Air Force destroyed  Allen Mitchell  
Notre Dame with its wishbone attack last week as the Gamecocks  
will bring with them their veer offense. Morrison has used this offensive formation to become the  SC quarterback  




Back in Action 
Dendy and Hagood off to a slow start, the Carolina running offense 
did not suffer. Quinton Lewis and Raynard Brown capably filled the 
voids, and now are the number one and three ground-gainers for 
the team. Lewis, at 6-0, 198 pounds, is not an overpowering runner, 
but has picked up 316 yards and has an impressive 7.3 average. 
Brown has contributed 199 yards ( 5.1 average). 
Although South Carolina has not passed a lot so far this season, 
when it does it rolls up yardage in huge tracts. The main target for 
Mitchell and Hold is senior flanker Ira Hillary. Hillary led Carolina 
with 30 receptions in 1983 and has 12 catches so far this year, 
see GAMECOCKS, page 2 
I 5!& Ailtf1'~'~~~.,,--I'IJ:»=J'·~;IIJC#
asL~W a. 4GfCZ.~mr.S;.'"'ClleL:~·.-·f..,.~~:-t?~~~~~,~~~~----~·&~"±tr"~~~,SII5!fl!111"-~~-·~~ ..&!!!ll.~ifi!R·-~·~~~ss;:ug11!1.11!1.·2E·--------~~~--"'?J'1ih• .lr. 4. 2.2
~:...!+~:!!f!':l! L!liW 


------~-------------------------~~--------------------------------------------.---------..~~......................~.---~--------------~~--------~ 
• I ' t It I I I • 1 o I I f I • > I I , \ 
SOUTH CAROLINA October 20, 1984 · page 2

lnsh Extra 


The Builder of Programs 
SC's Morrison has turned around Gamecocks 



By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 

Joe Morrison's coaching career has thus far 
mirrored the success he enjoyed playing profes­
sional football for the New York Giants. He thought 
he would give it a shot, but who would have ever 
dreamed that it would turn out this well? 
Morrison, in his second year as head coach at 
South Carolina, is a no-nonsense type ofperson 
who goes about his business in a quiet, professional 
manner. In his first year, he went about the business 
of turning the Gamecock football program into a 
winner. His youthful team, faced with the second­
toughest schedule in the country, finished with a 
respectable S-6 record. 

But this year has been the season that many 
South Carolina football fans have been waiting for. 
The Gamecocks have won their first five games, 
providing another example of Morrison's ability to 
turn a team's fortunes around. Carolina was 4-7 in 
1982 before Morrison appeared on the scene. 
The 14-year veteran ofthe Giants earned the 
nickname "Old Dependable" in his days as a tight 
end, but also deserves it for his won-loss record in 
his young career as a head coach. 

Morrison began his coaching career at 
Tennessee-Chattanooga in 1973. After two straight 
4-7 campaigns and a S-5-1 slate the following year, 
Morrison guided UT-Chattanooga to a 31-10-3 
record over the next four years, including two 
nine-victory seasons. 

In 1980, he was challenged again to put a 
progn:m back on its feet -this time New Mexico's. 
His first two seasons at UNM ended with identical 
4-7 records. But, in his third year in Albuquerque, 
the Lobus enjoyed an outstanding 1 0-1 record ­
capping an incredible turn-around. 

"The job that Coach Morrison accomplished at New Mexico was recognized by football people all over the country as truly outstanding," says Gamecock athletic director Bob Marcum. "Joe Morrison has proven himselfas a head coach -he's a winner." 
Morrison knows how to turn a team around. While he will say that there is no secret formula to guarantee success, those who have been associated with him during his three head coaching jobs attribute a lot ofthe good results to his coaching knowledge and the positive attitude that he passes down to his players. 
Frank Sadler is entering his sixth year as an offensive coordinator under Morrison. Sadler spent three years with Morrison at Tennessee­Chattanooga and stayed there for two more years before rejoining Morrison at New Mexico for one season. When Morrison switched to South Carolina, he brought Sadler and four other assistants with him for his third college football rescue effort. "Coach Morrison has taken teams from their lowest point and turned them completely around," says Sadler. "New Mexico was coming off of that big scandal (many coaches and athletic officials were fired because of payoffs to basketball players) and the youngpeople just got tired oflosing. They had the right attitude to turn things around. 
"We would have liked to turn the program around here the first year," Sadler continues. "But some injuries prohibited us from doing that. This season, the kids have responded well, and we're 
continued from page 1 
season. He finished second among all Irish players with 
a total of 1 1 0 tackles, only three behind leader 
Zavagnin, while starting in every game. He also led the~ 
team in tackles for losses with 13. This ability to trap 
the opposition behind the line of scrimmage is 
attributed to his quickness and capability ofreading an 
offense. 

The entire 1983 season and the first half of this one 
have been very frustrating for Larkin. It has been a time 
period plagued with injury on top of injury. A broken 
forearm caused his absence during the '83 campaign, 
and a knee injury prevented him from participating in 
the first six games this year. The latest injury occurred 
during fall practice exactly one year and a day after his 
previous injury. It was a freak accident on a practice 
day where the players weren't supposed to hit hard. 
Larkin pulled the running back over his leg and it 
twisted in such a way to cause torn ligaments in his 
knee. 

Larkin admits that his knee has not yet fully 
recovered. "I don't have full movement yet," he says. 
"My north to south motion is good, but when I move 
laterally, it bothers me." To protect the injury from 
re-occurring, Larkin has been wearing a double brace. 
"It's sturdy and doesn't allow much movement." 
The coaches are going to work the hard-hitting 
linebacker back into the system gradually. Larkin, 
Even though Morrison has seen such good results at South Carolina, few people expected the Gamecocks to have an outstanding season so soon after the rebuilding started. 'Tm not sure how we turned it around," Morrison says modestly. "The team has experienced and devoted football players. The players have had a lot to do with it." 
What is even more impressive about his ac­complishments at South Carolina is that he has done it with essentially the same players that went 
Joe Morrison's Coaching Record 
UT-Chattanooga 
1973-1979 44-29-4 .597 
New Mexico 
1980-4-7-0 1981-4-7-1 1982-10-1-0 
South Carolina 
1983-5-6-0 1984-5-0-0 

4-7 two seasons ago. While Mike White has built a team at Illinois with a flood of junior college transfers, Morrison has brought in only two: quarterback Mike Hold and substitute free safety Rick Rabune. 
"We're doing essentially the same kind of things as coaches," Morrison states. "Our coaches try to follow the guidelines that have been successful in the past. In no way did we ever envision being 5-0 at this point, but we, as coaches, don't look at those things before the season. We're very happy to be 
where we are." 
A lot ofhis successes have come about because he has used an offense that he knows very well and has found the right coaches and players to coach and execute it. "We've run the veer offense for nine years now," Morrison explains. "It's a very tough offense to attack defensively and gives you a better passing dimension than the wishbone, but is similar in concept." 
Morrison is slow to accept some ofthe credit he deserves for his accomplishments, but Sacler, a close associate of Morrison, knows the man's value to rebuilding a program. "There are three things about Coach Morrison that I have noticed since I've known him that make him successful," says Sadler. "First, he knows how to interview assistant coaches and which ones are going to be right for his staff. Second, he is intelligent himself, so he knows what kinds ofthings in the game of football are success­ful. Third, he's a great administrator. He lets good coaches do the coaching and he handles the team at team meetings. 
"He is very thorough in his preparation, knows what he wants to do, and goes out and does it. He rarely makes mistakes. But ifhe does, he'll take it and learn from it. He doesn't make the same mistakes twice." 
A mistake Morrison will never make is to under­emphasize the team concept. "Most ofthe men are now used to doing things the way we do them after being here for more than a year," Morrison says. "We want them to be able to work together under our system and for them to recognize the impor­tance ofworking together. 
"Being a professional player gives you insights to attitude and how players will react to certain things you might try," he expands. "I think I've used that knowledge to get to our players." 
Morrison has the insights and the knowledge to explain his success in college football coaching. Some of the things he does can already been seen appearing at other universities. But whatever techniques Morrison uses deserve to be examined. After all, it is difficult to find fault with his success. 
continued from page 1 
averaging nearly 22 yards per grab. Hillary has outstanding speed 
and has burned more than his share ofdefensive backs in his career. 
His longest reception this year was a 62-yarder. 
Junior split end Eric Poole has seven receptions and also 
averages 22 yards per catch. The tight end is Chris Corley, a 
hulk-like 6-3, 252-pound senior. Corley has made only six catches 
this year, but has to be respected for his size and ability to run after 
catching the ball. Morrison has not thrown to his running backs 
very much yet this year, but indicated that he might try it more 
often ifthe Irish defense can stop the run. 
One ofthe major strengths of the South Carolina offense, 
according to Morrison is having an all-senior offensive line. The 
Gamecocks are big up front, but also have decent speed, making 
their linemen well-equipped to block for the veer. 
Four starters return from 1983, with only senior Tom Garner at 
center new to the lineup. Carl Womble and Bill Barnhill return at 
the tackle positions and guards Jim Walsh and Del Wilkes are also 
back. The success Carolina has had on the ground this season, 
averaging 246 yards per game, has been a result ofthe blocking and execution of the offensive line. "Offensively, they present a lot ofproblems to you," Faust says of the multi-threat attack ofSouth Carolina. "They're also playing with
• • • Larkin 
a lot of enthusia.'im, a lot of intensity, and they've got a lot of momentum going."
himself, doesn't feel that he deserves to come right in 
As ifNotre Dame did not have enough problems already, a 
and start becauseJohn McCabe has been doing a good 
significant portion of the Irish defense is keeping the sports
job. "Although he (Larkin) has been a great player for 
medicine staff very busy. Strong safety Joe Johnson is listed as 
us in the past," says Faust, "he must prove himself and 
doubtful with an ankle sprain sustained in the Air Force game. Add 
earn his spot back." 

to that the loss offree saftey Steve Lawrence, who suffered a
Whether he starts or not, Larkin can hardly wait to 
bruised shoulder against Miami, and the Notre Dame secondary
get back out on the field again. "I am ready to give it 
will be a little thin. Hiawatha Francisco will probably play, but is
my all," says Larkin, "I have been cheerleading for too 
not expected be at full speed.
long." 

"Anytime you're up against a big, strong football team, you're
This potentially dominant player on the defense isn't 
going to have to put the ball in the air a little more," Morrison says,
the only one pleased with his return. "Just having him 
seemingly noticing the weakness in the Irish defense.
back is a great boost," says Faust, "he is a leader, a 
Also expected to be out are cornerback Mike Haywood-and
competitor, and an inspirator." 

tackle Eric Dorsey. Tony Furjanic's knee may not be healed before
Now that Larkin is back on the field, he wants to do 
the season ends, but Mike Larkin will have the chance to play for
all he can to help the team. He has his sights on South 
the first time this season after straining knee ligaments before the
Carolina in particular. The Gamecocks come to Notre 
season.
Dame Stadium Saturday boasting a 5-0 record. They 
Notre Dame's offense against South carolina's defense: 
are a team that has a well-balanced attack as they use 
In the pa.<>t three weeks, the Irish offensive unit has moved no
both the run and pass effectively. "To shut them 
faster than molasses, and has scored at a lethargic one-touchdown­
(South Carolina) down, we must stop their quarter­
per-game rate.
back," says Larkin, "It's going to be tough, but 1think 
At lea.'it part ofthe problem will be addressed this week, as 
we can do it." 

quarterback Steve Beuerlein will return to the starting lineup after
This week ha.'i been a rather eventful week for the 
sitting out the Air Force game with a shoulder problem.
Irish football team. The team been working hard to 
In the past few games, Notre Dame has been stuck with
find and solve the problems that have hurt it in recent 
completing the short pa.'ises, while the deep threat ha.<> been
weeks, but, at least, with Larkin's return, there is some 
combatted well by opposing secondaries. Look for Joe Howard and
good news. 

Milt jackson to utilize the dee 
Carolina has had difficulty del 
The other major stumbling absence of the running game. for Allen Pinkett and compan~ those problems or resort to OJ more successful with the pass 
"I wish I knew what the am 
has bad such difficulty," says I 
the line ofscrimmage at all." 
The injury list for the Irish c been recently, with Larry Will suffering various knee and ank slated to play after missing the 
South Carolina will counter named because of its all-out, S' season, the Gamecocks have a the ground and just 268 total , 
"South Carolina is as impres defense," says Faust. "They're speed and their ability to have pursue well and make it tough 
The Carolina secondary is a returning with considerable e: have been impressive so far th free saftey, leads the secondar~ tions. Sophomores Chris Majo nods at the cornerback positic Hilton Tayloe started in those sophomore, gets the nod a strc 
The Gamecock linebacking defense, with seniors Paul Vog team in tackles. Vogel has 49 t while Seawright adds 47. The • by freshman Carl Hill. 
Maybe the biggest weakness 
John Carney~ 
Field Goals 6-of-6 



By ANDRE THEISEN Hesburgh admitted liability was News Staff part of the reason for the formation of the alcohol policy, but declared Head Football Coach Gerry Faust the unacceptability of public 
can relax. drunkenness was the primary reason If the alcohol policy doesn't work, for the formation ofthe policy. 
it will get tougher. Hesburgh declared there will And coed dormitories have no never be coed dorms at NO as long place at Notre Dame. as he is president. In defense of this he cited the need for privacy for
All three statements are according both men and women, the ample op­to Father Theodore Hesburgh. Uni­portunities for interaction alreadyversity president, who spoke at a available and the fact other univer­question-and-answer session at the sities are returning to unisex dorms.
Library Auditorium Thursday night. 
Other topics discussed includedWhen asked whether the football the male-female ratio at Notre

team's performance called for action ....
Dame, the renovation of LaFortune on his part, Hesburgh stated that ND Student Center and the student .'VaS a place of integrity and that he body's ability to be involved in

would not dishonor Faust's contract. 
world issues.

"Five-year contracts are standard for new coaches," Hesburgh said, "and Hesburgh, when asked whether coaches deserve that period to es­ND would ever reach an equal male­tablish themselves." female ratio, emphasized the Saint 
The Ohserver/Johannes Hacker
Hesburgh is more concerned 
Mary's community had to be consid­about the student body's reaction to ered when discussing the male­

the team's performance. "I think it's Law Addition University president, was one participant in a 
female ratio. While he said more 

Work has begun on the new addition to Notre ground-breaking ceremony for the new building.
bush when ND students boo their women can and will be admitted to 
Dame's Law School. Father Theodore Hesburgh, See Kathleen Dias' story. 
own team," he said, in response to NO in the future, Hesburgh stated the students' negative reaction after 
that he would not want the 

last Saturday's loss to Air Force. 
combined ND-SMC male-female 

"That's not what ND is about. 
Ceremony opens work on addition,
ratio to exceed equality.

Hesburgh said he completely sup­ported the alcohol policy. When Saying he sympathized with those asked if he foresaw further restric­students who are eager to become 
construction set to begin in March 
tions, he said the policy would get directly involved in world prob­tougher only if the current policy lems, he said the best thing to do is didn't work. Hesburgh reminded the "to get the best education you can. By KATHLEEN DIAS on the new addition to Notre Dame The Kresge Law library which 
audience it was he who had first Learn all you can to prepare yourself News Staff Law School. University President Fa­had been enlarged in 1973, will be and then decide what you're going ther Theodore Hesburgh, Dean of added to, doubling the library stack
allowed alcohol on campus and said ND is a place where students can to do -you can make a difference in A ground-breaking ceremony last the Law School, David T. Link, and area, with room for up to 300,000 
week marked the beginning of work the Law School Advisory Council all volumes. Present plans will enable
learn responsible drinking. life." participated in marking the planned the School to provide every law stu­extention. dent with their own carrel or at least Major construction is not sched­a place at a table. 
Board of Regents open fall session 
uled to begin until March 1, 1985, Assistant Dean William McLain isbut already preliminary utility work very positive about the new workhas begun. To insure student safety, and he feels the University's deci­
with orientation of new members 
the entire area . has been sectioned sion to com111it an estimated $4 mil­off by fencing which will remain in lion is being done " at the right time,
By THERESA GUARINO guidelines for the 1985-86 budget, a and hear presentations, including place until fall, 1986 when work is 
at the right place." Accoding to
AssistantNews Editor review of last year's audit, and a the investment, student life, educa­
scheduled for completion.presentation on the proposed addi­tion, and development committees. 
The new facilities will include a McLain, these timely developments Orientation for new members was tion and renovation to the science The entire board was invited to sit in 
four-story addition to the main at the oldest Catholic law school in 
one item on the agenda as Saint hall were other topics to be dis­on the finance and budget commit-building featuring classrooms, a the country will keep Notre Dame cussed this session. tee meeting.
Mary's Board of Regents met yester­courtroom, a research center, fac­on a par with peer schools like Duke day and Thursday for their annual Thursday the new regents atten­ulty offices and a five story addition and Vanderbilt, and help the Law
Yesterday the board met from 10
fall meeting. The board meets in full ded meetings giving them an to the library. School to keep growing.
a.m. to 3 p.m. in LeMans Hall. 
twice a year, once each semester. overview of College administration, The four new regents include this including a presentation on student The board of regents consists of year's student regent, senior Sue government by Student Body Presi­30 members. As a rule, one-third of 
Lil' Sibs passes CLC,
Simonaitis. Having a student on the dent LeAnn Franks and Vice Presi­the regents must be members of the board each year is a requirement. dent for Student Affairs Ann Marie Holy Cross Congregation, one must The approval ofthe College's new Kollman. Also lbursday, the different com-be a faculty member, one is the stu­
await Tyson's decision 
governance manual, the report of mittees of the board met to discuss dent regent, and one must be the
each standing committee, proposed ByBRIANRAK Weekend held two years ago. He president of the alumni board. Col­News Staff said, however, as a result of letters lege President John Duggan par­and and information sent to the rec­ticipates as an ex officio member. A proposal to hold Lil' Sibs tors, as well as the Oct. 8 presenta­
Weekend again this spring passed by tion, many rt:ctors are now open to The Board of Regents is the a narrow margin at Wednesday the possibility ofLil' Sibs Weekend. official governing body of the Col­
night's meeting of the Campus Life Bertino said posting more sc::cur­lege. lbey are responsible for and Council. ity guards in the residence halls for Avote of I I to S gave the proposal that weekend and adhering to care­
must approve new departments and 
the two-thirds plus one majority ful registration procedures are twodegree programs, the capital and needed to pass. lbe proposal had ways of rectifying problems that oc­operating budgets of the College, 
been tabled at a Sept. 26 CLC curred during the last Ill' Sibstenure policies, salary and wage pro-
meeting pending presentation to a \'\'eekend. group of rectors. "I hope that in :naking his deci­
grams, academic honorary degrees, 
On Oct.8, I 0 rectors met to listen sion Father Tyson will seek inputnew senior offict:rs, and all major 
to a presentation of the proposal by from many of the rectors. We've
College policies. committee chairmen Joanne Mad­changed a lot of attitudes," Bertino
'lbe senior offict:rs of the College den and Steve Taeyaerts. said. 

see SIBLINGS, page 4 

'This will be the last issue ofthe Obseroer before October Break. We will resume publishing on Tuesday, October 30, 1984. Have an enjoyable and safe break! 
are Duggan; William Hickey, vin" Student Body President Rob Ber­
president and dean of faculty; Sister tino will now notify Tyson, who will Karol Jackowski, dean of students; have seven days to approve or reject Jason Lindower, controller and the proposal. 
It is now up to Vice President ofLawrence Durance, vice president Student Affairs Father David Tysonfor college relations. Only Duggan is to approve or reject the proposal.
a regent and has a vote in board decision-making. "Tyson has already statt:d that he will not approve the proposal if it
New regents are selected each does not have have the approval of year by the administrative members the rectors," said Bertino.
of the corporation-seven sisters of the Holy Cross Congregation's Mid­Bertino said many rectors had west order. "bad impressions" of the Lil' Sibs 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_. 
' • I I I l • ' ' f t > f 

The Observer Saturday, October 20, 1984 -page 4 

The u.s. economy suffered a pronounced 
slump during the summer with growth declining to a sluggish 2.7 percent rate from July through September -less than one-third the torrid pace set in the first half of the year, the government said yes­terday. The Reagan administration, facing an election in less than three weeks, declared that the "slowdown is already behind us" and pointed to encouraging signs that the economy has perked up from its summer doldrums. Most private economists agreed that business activity will pick up in the final three months of the year, but many said the administration's growth forecast of 4 percent was too opti­mistic. Both the administration and private forecasters agreed that the news on inflation remained upbeat. The department reported that an inflation index tied to the GNP rose at a modest rate of 3.8 percent from July through September, the slowest pace this year.­
AP 

The nation's first handgun banwas upheld 
yesterday by a divided Illinois Supreme Court in the Chicago suburb of Morton Grove, and the village's mayor said the ruling "sends the green light" to communities considering similar laws. The 4-3 deci­sion came on a challenge by four village residents who contended that the 1981 law barring the sale and possession of handguns vio­lated state constitutional guarantees of the right to bear arms and was not within the scope oflocal officials' authority. The high court said that such a ban is constitutional as long as not all guns are outlawed and that village officials had the power to impose the ban to reduce weapons-related injuries and accidents. -AP 
Of Interest 
Renaissance Drawings from the Abrosiana in the Print, is the title ofthe new art exhibition at the Snite Museum ofArt, beginning tomorrow. The Snite will be open t.o the public from 1 to 4 p.m. -The Observer 
The Board ofRegentsofSaint Mary's met yesterday and Thursday for their annual fall meeting. Among topics discussed was a proposed new sexuality program for students. The Student Life Committee which includes the student regent, presented their ideas for the program to the entire Board yesterday. The regents also heard a further presentation on the new science hall renovations. There was no discussion on changes in the parietals policy at the College. -The Observer 
Weather 

r ' I I 
:O:

The sun might hold out 
I 
' 

for today's game, but keep your umbrella handy. Showers and thunderstorms are ex­pected later this afternoon and tonight. Highs should be in the high 60s to low 70s, with lows in the 50s to 60. -The Observer 
Notre Dame professor is member of Challenger shuttle ground crew 
By MAUREEN WELTER 
News Staff 

When the space shuttle Chal­lenger flew over the South Bend area last week, Notre Dame Professor Fa­ther Ronald Wasowski was part of the crew. 
Wasowski didn't orbit the earth with the astronauts, but as part ofthe mission's ground crew participated in an experiment using NASA's orbi­tal imaging radar system. He describes radar imaging as "a pic­toral recording using radar wavelengths," as opposed to pho­tography which uses visible light to record images. 
With the help of undergraduate researcher Kevin Corbley, Wasowski aided the mission by mea­suring the soil of 45 local fields and videotaping the surrounding landscape. 
"The radar was able to pick up the physical geometry as well as the 
Sibling 
continued/rom page 3 
"This is a good opportunity for the administration to show confidence in the student decision-making process," said Bertino. "If Tyson turns it down I'll be extremely disap­pointed." 
The Observer 
Today·s issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.. ...... Tom Small T}pesetters ......................... M.E. Harrington News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor....... .. ........... Amy Stephan ,\ports Copy Editor .......... 'lberon Roberts Sports ,\pecial layout.......... Chris Bowler ND Day Editor ........................... Miriam Hill SMC Day Editor... ....... Shirley Ore Pbotographer..................]ohannes Hacker 
The Observer (lJSPS S99 .l-4000) is published Monday throu~ Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and va(.·ation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Mondale ! Chris' Ice Cream i 
says asey f MADETHEOLDFASHIONEDWAY f
C 

should go 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Walter F. 
Mondale demanded yesterday Presi­
dent Reagan fire CIA director 
William Casey before Sunday's 
presidential debate because of the 
distribution of a CIA document that 
encourages terrorism against the 
leftist Sandinista government in 
Nicaragua. 

Five days after the existence ofthe 
document first became known, the 
Democratic challenger also called 
on the president to immediately ex­
plain if he plans U.S. military action 
against the government in Managua. 
The disclosure that the CIA produced the document "is a profound embarrassment to our country," he said. 
Mondale interrupted his debate preparations to speak to reporters outside his Washington home. Reagan devoted much ofthe day to studying for Sunday's debate on foreign policy. 
: GRAND OPENING +
: Saturday,lOa.m.~lOp.m. : 
t THIS FRIDAY, SATURDAY AND SUNDAY ONLY t BUY ONE SUNDAE AND GET THE 2ND FOR HALF-PRICE! : 
: 1723 So: Bend Ave.-next to Turtle Creek Apt. : 

electrkal propert} of .t .... en<:," -.aid Wasowski, an assistant professor of earth science. 
The Challenger passed over thi:o area Oct. 6 and (kt. I 0 But because of teLhni'-J.l problems, Ot:t. 6's :-Jdar images did not turn out, and there is a possibility that Oct. I O's were not successful either. "We're still waiting to find out," said Wasowski. 
Data from the Challenger will serve many purposes, said Wasowski. "We hope to be able to draw a numerical content of the brightness of a soil as shown on the radar in relationship to the moisture content of the soil. This will be valuable for studying agricultural areas in terms ofwhat types ofcrops are growing and what treatment they will need. This will ultimately help the farmers in the area." 
Data from this experiment could also lead to the discovery of petro­leum reserves, buried streams in dry areas, and fault lines that geologists have not yet charted. 
Wasowski plans to work with the space shuttle program in the future. He said, "There is a good possibility NASA will fly this experiment again and I definitely expect to expand on it." 
Wasowski gained much of his ex­perience for this mission while pursuing his Ph.D at U.C.LA. and working at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif. 
Fine South Americo:-lmports Natural Fiberapparel and accessories lndiginous Art and exotic antiquejewelry 
step into the Richness ofthe Andes at: 100 Center Orchid Lane Open til 9:00 
Mishawaka 12-5 Su-nday 
----------------------------------~----~ 

EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'IWlE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
,.__ 

LAWYER'S ASSISTANT: 
In Ill\ fl •h Jl lh•· ftf'i \JilllltJII!Jrth 11! tfl!LI~II I Jill nlii'!JIIIh 11'111~ till' hn,mh·dg•· .trtjlllfi'Ulhroll):h 1111 P·" JkgJiirJllnng at I<II<N'Il'li 
A GROWTH CAREER FOR THE 80's 
., r;tining a~ ;t l:t\\ 1 n\ ..~,.,,i~rant em gin· toda\ \ f''R(>OSE\TI'Yt;-:'\f\'ERSi'l'l-:-----· collt.·gt.· g•aduate a 1aluahk nlgc i11 the joh I'awn-r~ As~.J~tant Progran1 •'ll markt.·t I·dO S \lichigan An· ~ 
Chicdgo. Ill. 6060'; • l·ntn··k\d po~ition~ 111 the ( :ht< .tg<• ;uc.t p.ll Iru .uoptr.n•on '-'•lh .. a'lllll ·1 . "1 '(J{l(l "I; (l(l(l . I llh,·'\.allonal<.entnlurP.irJkl<"llramm!(
,, l 1 .1~. --II>" l. --ath "Hilt' paralegal' ;trt.· no\\ t'JI rung.~~ ntt1< h a~ ~ ~.!.IHltl.l Plea.~c '>t'Hd me a cop1 of the Roose\l:!lt 
. . It tall'~ Ill~! tllrn: 111\ltllh~ ot daH•nw ~tud\ 
. . . . . · · <."x mond1~ mtht.·. t'\t'lllll~) to prl'part' lor a ( Jrt'l'r a.~ a l.J\\ HT ~ A-.~1:-.tJnt. l he J)r!Wr<tnl at 
ro 

Roo~t.'\'dt I lltlt'f-.itl i:-.tht largc-~t \II A appro\nl program in lllincu~. and 11:-. rc~·ord of J.:raduatl' l'mploymt'nt a-.~i:-.t.mn: i~ till' I" ~~ 
thcrl' i:-. 
Recruiter will be on campus November 7, 1984 
FOR INFORMA'fiON AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL (312) 341 3882 OR 
MAIL THIS COlJPQN TOOAVf. 
i'\I 

l.a\1} rr sAssiStant Program catalog.It · . d · h ~--'h' 
am mterestr mt e '--· C 1cago or 1 :=Arlington Hei~hts location. 
I 
I '...tnu.: -· .-\dllrt·...... 
I~------------­1~~~-..--·----..:;'·::Lip'-----­1"''~<:.:.:.'":.:.:"c.:.·~'..:.:'"..:.:m::...•·----------­lllu"'"."·'-'"'"""'.:.:."<=-·__________ IApproved tor \:A and Ill. State 9 
c.umnrecd Loan'
I"'"''ndl I"'"''"" •dm,-.!hludolhun lh<· h~'"'~ uu.Ji\'Hiu<&l nu rll ..nc.J "'llhou! r<:l'-ln..llu fA(.'l". 'ulur. M"X or .lt(C: 

130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 
277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 

SUnday 
I I 
16",1 item 

I 
I
$6.95 

I 
I
Coli before 9:30 

I 
__________,.j
f.XPIRES 10/21/84 I 
·..... 
. ' . ·. ' '· ' '. \ ·. '. ' 

The Observer 
Satu~day, October 20, 1984-page 5 
Classifieds 
Thl' Ohst'rt'er :"\otn: Dame.: office.:. located on the third floor of Lal'ortunt: '-tudnH <.t·ntlT. actTpt~ cla~~itlnl ad\"t:rti~ing from 'J a.m. uiHil ·~ p 111. \londay through l'rida\. Th<' Obsen•t>r :O.aint \I an·~ office.:. locttc.:d on the.: thrrd floor of Haggar< .ollcgc.: ( .nlln. anTpt~ cla.,~ifkd~ from 12:.~0 p.m umil 5 p.nL .\ton­day though hida\ lkadlirll' tor nt·xt-da~ cla~~itlnl., i~ 5 p m. All da~~ific.:d~ must ht· prt·paid. c.:ithn in pt:r~on or hy mail <.hargc h Ill l.l'lll" pt:r fivt· charac­tt-rs t'f day. 
DEAR DOMERS: Penn State Join the Anne Ferry Club. Goto an expen­I need 4 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL JOE Penn State sive SYR. spend two hours in the bath­
1933. PLEAAASE!! PENN STATE! room, and then bag your date before All I ever wanted were 3 G.A. tickets to midnight. Hey, Anne, how was that party 
NOTICES ~W_A_N_TE_D~~~~__TIC_K_ET_S~ 
... . . . . . . . . .. . ... . . . .. . . ..... 

PennSwe. at Stanford, anyway? 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
Boston area families seek quality MY PARENTS DON'T LOVE ME 

If you have them, call Mary at 1333. childcare in exchange for room, board, ANYMORE!!! 
ZOIO:I'LL FIXX YOU.PSYCHED FORHard to believe, but I still have 2 GA tick­TYPING and a competitive salary. Please contact So I have two South Caroll1111 G.A. ·a fOf' THE FURS'LETS TAKE THE WHOLEets to the S.C. game which are very dose
Jackie Boggs HUNGRY? CALL FOR DELIVERY
Kate Goldfield at 617-332-6056 or Beth ..le. 

DAY OFF!!HOW ABOUT A
684-8793 to the 50 YARD-LINE. I'm sure you've FROM THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453Ingram at 617-877-7739 or write to The Call Shell• 1t 2810. 
WEEK?STATE STREET AWAITS!! LUV,been trying to call, but I haven't been MO-TH 8-11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am Family Exchange, Inc., 25 Lakeview Ave., Oh, by the-y. while I h1veyour atten­
W3 
................... there. Please call Murph at 283-1933
Newton, MA. 02160. tion, 

TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. before Saturday. I'd hate to see you miss Bellevalt Of Not ...
I tuat turned 21 on Monday, lnd I'm atlll ZOIO:I'LL FIXX YOU!PSYCHED FOR 

...................... looking fOf my prim:.. the game. I actually saw Father H.-burgh walking 
THE FURSILETS TAKE THE WHOLETYPING CALL CHRIS 234~tv7 If you're good-looking and available, on the quad last Friday ! 
F ROOMMATES WANTED 277-2367 DAY OFFIHOW ABOUT A gimme a call --who knows what could 
WEEK?STATE STREET AWAITS!! LUV,
aP.eRi·a.-c£·o····:rvPis·r····w;u::····oo 
happen? NEED TICKETS to Penn State. Parents
NEEDED!!' Part-time retail sales person­W3.
PERSONALS

TYPING. CALL 287·5162. 
want to see first ND football game. Hey,nel for CORNERSTONE. Seeking warm, 
.................................................... 

they're my parents, what can I say. Please 
greganous individuals who enjoy selling WATCH OUT for a meeting after Break!
$$ CASH FOR TEXTBOOKS $$ PAN­
FOR SALE; 4 S.C. GA'S CALL MARY at sell me 2 GAs, or I am in the dog's house. 
family active-wear. Hourly wage $4.00. Great SKI trips to Steamboat Springs,
DORA'S BOOKS 937 SOUTH BEND 1363 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Call Maureen at 1333.
Apply in person at Buyer's Marketplace, Col. Ski & Party with hundreds of other
AVE. 233-2342 CARRY OUT TIL3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE 
5901 North Grape Rd. college students this X-Mas' BE THERE!' DESPEAATEL Y need 2 Penn State tix!!! THE STONYBURKS ARE
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOliDAY INN. 
RENE' 1190 WiU pay$$$$ call Beth 239-6328 HEREIIIIIIII!!Ill!II!
WANTED: EDDY GRANT SAFE TO THRASH!!! 
...............................................................

MEMORABILIA. WILL PAY TOP DOL­The Bldl8nda w.tcomea
LOST/FOUND 

NEED 5 GA & 2 student tix for South JUDY,JUDY,JUDY AND RAZOR­ATE AND WILLING TO PAY THROUGH and 
LAR FOR ANY EDDY STUFF. DESPER­the'RENTS 
Carolina, Chris 3055 RRRRRRRR, SPAWDAWG AND KIM THE ASH, DAN AND BUG, QUEEN
THE NOSE. CONTACT: TICO, c/o EDDY compeny INTERNATIONAL, RFD 1, JAMAICA OR FOR SALE: Two South c.rotlna GA'a. KEUY AND EPPY THE CINDERMAN Have a great weekend LOST; WHITE MEMBERS ONLY 
JACKET. IF FOUND CALL STEVE 3527. 
UNDERWEAR REJECTORS UNITE TICO, c/o SCAMS INC., BARBADOS. I'H take the ~offer, even If It'a underLOST FRIDAY, OCT. 12, ROOM 101 THANK YOU FOR YOUR INTEREST. 1-velue. Cell Mike at 23•5323.
HURLEY. 
'OiBest Gnome is a Dead Gnome'

.........................................~ .......................... WHY SHOULD I FUP???? ITS MY
EDDY LIVES!!!!! THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A MA·
SVEN SUBOTAI

HEY!! You don't-nn~~-thoaeguya HOUSE 
TURE RESPONSE play Pann SWell don't alth.,. but my LOST: LEVI'S BLUE DENIM JACKET IN 
SOUTH DINING HALL (RIGHT /LEFT) 
friend from PSU -nta to gloat..• So Join the K-.n 3-Weet METAL CLUB. 
MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK All me your STUDENT TICKET to PSU Reymann·s, Ehrenfried's, & other associ­&eng your heed end eet your ct.c~. 
DURING LUNCH ON 10/16. IF FOUND, 
PLEASE CALL DOT ] 3803 OR RETURN FOR SALE ated people : Take lot8 of cool drugrt •nd ac:ore withnow. You'll fMI better fOf lt. Cell KeithTO RACK IN SOH. THANKS! 
3345. Welcome to Notre Dame ! ..,fillY chick that you even look at. Be • devil _..,lpper, lnd get..-.lly 10M ROSEMARY ROSEMARY ROSEMARYLOST! LOST! LOST! 
FOJs.te 

your h_..ng. Cell Fr11nk fOf lnf~ but ROSEMARY Does she know what Wed. 
16' GOLD HERRING-BONE NECKLACE 1976 Chevy Caprice, 9-passenger 2 SOUTH CAROLINA GA'e NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! don't belllermed If he ~·t •na-. was? I think she should. Aren't you nostal­EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE' wagon. Full Power, A/C, Automatic 350 Pick up the phone, gimme a cal/ NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! He'atuet trying hlabrlln with thellteat gic for freshman year? We could arrange REWARD IF FOUND V-8, 57,000 miles, $1,000. 277-0047 The BADLANDS. ask for Dan 1184 NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! Ozzy •lbum: '101 W•y• to Serve Rebid it so you could live it aver. "I just
CALL 1647 (After 5:00p.m.) 
Elata.' responded."
PLEASE' 


Paul, I hope you make it to the golf course,
r-----------------~-----------1 
not just the putting green on your neX1try.l heard you handled your dubs well out there. 
Bring In This Coupon And Save 

MR. D's 
Kim says, my hair is falling out. 
1516 N.lronwood 
This one's for you: "Go ahead. abuse me. I like it." 
[ South Bend 

This one·s for you· 
233·7747 
I think you just lost a bet. 
John (Pork-u-pine)-HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!'!!'!! 
'ROCK DOWN TO ELECTRIC AVENUE.' --Eddy Grant, 1983 
50% Off 
'IM ROMANCING THE STONE, NEVER
Mr. D's Canning Factory and Ron Delaere 
LEAVING YOUR POOR HEART ALONE.' --Eddy Grant, 1984 
"Class of64" announces a special discount 
MEPS MEPS MEPS MEPS MEPS MEPS
Frames 

MEPS MEPS MEPS MEPS 
to ND and SMC studfnts and faculty 
Dearest Kelly Ann, Thank you kindly for finally rescuing me from this desolation and MAKING ME REAL! 
Present your I.D. and Mr. D's will give you a 
Now, I'm happy. Luv,JB 
10%Discount in the restaurant area on the 
Food Menu of the Bill 
PS Happy Sweetest Day 
Choo•e any etyle from our entire frame eelectlon includ1ng Halston. 
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME DONP1erre Card1n and Yves St Laurent Then take 50% off the regular pnce PARDO AND LORSFISH. GLAD TO
Otter good w1th this coupon and student/faculty 1dent1f1cation when ordering This offer is good through December 31. 1984. 
HAVE YOU HERE, TOO, RON AND PAT 
a complete pa1r of prescnpt1on glasses only Broken ala••e• replaced 
AND CLINT. SORRY I CAN'T STICK
Special Deals can be made for
or repaired at no charce for one year. No other discounts apply AROUND AND PLAY, BUT D.C. BE­
CKONS. THANKS FOR COMING! ­LITTLEBRO
Special Parties or Banquets . 
South Bend: Scottsdale Mall 291-2222 Specializing in Prime Rib, Hand Cut Steaks, and 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, FAST FREDDIE
Elkhart: Concord Mall 875-7472 
NELSON'
Seafood with a Great Salad Bar ~ 
Offices throughout Indiana ~ 
,'64

Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Mall Hours ~ / 
PROFESSIONAL EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE BY OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICE ON PREMISES 

Ron Delaere 
l----------------------------~ 
A SPIRIT••• and a DeepSense o/ 
PRIDE Daat Grows Witla tlae Passage ofTifflel 
NOTRE DAME FANS 
Share In the Pridel .loin tlae Tea•l 
NATIONAL FIGHTING IRISH SUBWAY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION, Inc. The World's MostLoyalFans' 
To promote excellence In Notre Dame academics a:ld athlettcsl Toprovide scholarships for Notre Dame students In needl Topromote Integrity In lntercolleglat,e athletics I Toprovide tangible recognition. at long last, for the Fighting Irish 
faithful. the Subway Alumnll 
For FREE brochure and application, ..,.,e: National Fighting Irish Subway Alumni Association 
P.O. Box 211 Notre Daaae.lndiana 46556 
(A noa•pro/ft OJ'fiGft&Gtfon) 



Correction 
Because of an editing error in yesterday's Observer, Saint Mary's sophomore Patty Wil­liams' photo was inserted in place of senior Ann Boutton's. The Obseroer regrets any incon­venience or confusion that this error may have caused. 
Weinle 
continuedfrom page 6 
the position I play." 
Against South Carolina, Weinle believes that the Irish must take away the big play if they are to upset the I I th-ranked Gamecocks. 
For the rest of the season, Weinle believes that the Irish can still regain some respect. He accredits Lantz with good ability to call good schemes, and he has faith in his fel­low teammates. 
"I'm happy with the guys," says Weinle. "Obviously, we haven't per­formed as well as we are capable of. We're going through a tough time and we're going to have to regroup and get back on track Saturday. With the caliber of teams that we play coming up on our schedule, it gives us an opportunity to gain some respect back and show people what we're capable of doing." 


Saturday, October 20, 1984 -page 6
SRorts 
Irish cross-country team wins Indiana Intercollegiate Meet 
By NICK SCHRANTZ Courtney. Sophomore Mike Collins finished second, and the rest of the Sports Writer finished in 1Oth place, while senior team did real well. However, Dan Ed Willenbrink rounded out the Garrett and Bill Courtney won the 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame scoring for Notre Dame by placing meet for us," Piane described. "With cross country team scored an im­1 Sth. a mile-and-a-quarter to go, they pressive victory in the Indiana Inter­Co-captain Jim Tyler, while not passed three Purdue runners and collegiate Meet held yesterday at the counting in the scoring, helped the stayed ahead of them the rest of the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Irish by displacing a Purdue runner race, which really helped us out." 
The Irish amassed only 36 points with a strong finishing kick to finish 
The Irish have proven that they
(lowest score wins) in defeating a 18th.JuniorJohn Magill ran with thtl 
have a national caliber team, but will
tough 23-team field. Purdue, the pack the entire race and ended with 
he heavily challenged by traditional
13th-ranked team in the country, a fine 24th-place finish. 
powerhouse Oral Roberts next Sat·
captured second-place honors with Purdue's Terry Brahn, the Big Ten 
urday at the Midwestern City Con­
47 points. A strong Indiana team record-holder in the mile with a 
ference Championships in
finished third and totaled 60 points. 3:-;4 mark, took the individual 
The undefeated Irish won Indianapolis at the Butler University
their honors for the meet. He was up with 

Golf Course.
fourth meet because of their in­the lead group of runners the entire credible consistency. Tim Cannon. race, and at the finish he was about However, if the Irish continue to the leading Notre Dame runner, 20 yards ahead ofCannon. run as well as they have so far this 
finished second overall in the 161-Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane year, they have a very good chance runner field. was pleased with all seven runners, to win the conference champion· 
Freshman Dan Garrett placed hut singled out Garrett and ship and can look forward to the fourth overall, and was directly fol· Courtney for special praise. NCAA District IV qualifying meet on lowed by senior co-captain Bill "Tim Cannon ran a super race and November 10. 
Record stands at 16-5 
Saint Mary's volleyball wins two 
over into game two, as she and in blocking percentages in the con­
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
senior Ann Boutton combined their ference. The Belles also feature the
Sports Writer 

efforts for eight kills. "Mary Carole top NAIA passers in Feldman, and Ann were consistent in the Brown, sophomores Patty WilliamsThe Saint Mary's volleyball team clutch situations," said Goralski. and Mary Dilenschneider and fresh­raised its record to 16-5 Thursday The coach also credited sopho­man Anne Williard.
night as it defeated fellow NAIA more Mary Reidy with a great game. Saint Mary's final conference andmember Huntington College, 15-7, 
lbse•rver/Jo~•annes Hacker
In addition, sophomore Ann Brown regular season game is scheduled at15-1 1, and NCAA Division III school 
Senior co-captainjim Tylerprepares tofinish the distance on the
also aided in the Belles cause with an home against Marion College on Oc­
DePauw University, 15-4, 15-7, in Burke Memorial Golf Course in the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet 
ace, two blocks and three kills for six tober 30. A victory against Marion
Huntington, Ind. yesterday. Nick Schrantz details the impressive Notre Dame victory
Saint Mary's points in the second would result in a three-way firstIn the first game against the host 
at/eft.
game. place finish among Goshen, Marion team, Saint Mary's benefitted from 
and Saint Mary's. 
the fine play of freshman Kara In the second match of the night, Tekulve. "Kara really came the Belles quickly disposed of through," commented Saint Mary's DePauw. The Greencastle, Ind., 
Injuries still plague Irish 
coach Brian Goralski. "Her hitting team was not at full strength because and serving were on target all night of illness, but Goralski feels the op­and she put the ball away when we ponents simply lacked the talent 
Weinle may fill in at defensive spot
needed it." they possessed when the two teams 
Freshman Mary Carole Feldman have met in the past. By MICHAEL). CHMIEL seniorJerry Weinle may get the nod ministartion. finished up the game almost The victory over Huntington se­Sports Writer to replace ailing Mike Griffin on the The 1982 monogram winner singlehandedly, as she gave the cured a place for the Belles in the defensive line when Notre Dame believes that he ready for a start on 
\ Belles the final three points with a NAIA District tournament which is The injury-plagued nose tackle takes the field against the unde­defense and sees little trouble in } block, a kill and a service ace. slated to begin on November 1. position for the Irish may see still an· feated South Carolina Gamecocks. shifting to the nose tackle spot. j Feldman's excellent play carried Currently Saint Mary's ranks third other different starter on Saturday as Weinle, a 6-3, 251-pound defen­"I've been here a long time and ~I sive tackle, was switched back to the I've paid my dues," says Weinle. "I 
defensive unit after playing a back­think I could do very well. Switching
.~ Solves fumble problem 
up role at the offensive guard posi­back to defense is't that tough be­tion during the spring and first five cause I played defense for three weeks ofthis season. The Cincinnati, years and offense for one. Last year, I 
Finnegan gets chance at center 
Ohio, native had been shifted to the switched back and forth a lot. offense due to injuries on the offen­"You always want to do your best
Rv MARKS. PANKOWSKI "I think Finnegan did a good job sound like an excuse." sive line and started last year's Miami and you always want to be a starter ­
,\ports U/riter getting the hall to the quarterback, Like everyone else, Finnegan game in the quick guard spot in that's what I'm striving for. I'd love
which was the thing he had to do," could not explain the troubles the place ofan injured Tim Scannell. to be a starter, either on offense or
\Xith :\likt· Kl."lley starting at cen· Selmer says. "He also carried out his offense had moving the football. In last year's Army game, Weinle defense. I'm happy with the playing
tt:r. tht..· per~on who is playing be· blocking assignments like he was "Any time the offense doesn't earned a game ball for being the first time that I've received in the last
hind him prohahly does not think supposed to." move the ball the reason is that the Even though was is executing to­Irish player to play both on offense couple of weeks, but I won't be
that the opportunity to play will Finnegan team not well and defense since Dave Casper who satisfied until I'm starting."
come around very often. frustrated with the outcome of the gether," Finnegan states. "I hate to played both ways against Michigan The condition ofGriffin is the fac·
But when Robbie Finnegan was game, he was encouraged with his point afinger at any one person." State in 1973. tor that will determine how much
called into action during the second play. Being a former Parade prep All­With junior Eric Dorsey injured Weinle plays. IfGriffin practices and
halfoflast Saturday's Air Force game, "What can I say, I don't want to American, it has not been easy for and sophomore starter Mike Griffin looks good, he will probably start.
he was ready to take that chance and sound happy but I think I played Finnegan to wait to play with Mike listed as questionable, defensive line However, Lantz believes that the
make the most of it. pretty well filling in for Mike," says Kelley ahead of him. But Finnegan Finnegan's chance to play came the second-string center. has h's reasons to come Notre coach Rick Lantz sees the strong Irish will not be hurt in his absence
to possibility of Weinle getting his first because of Weinle's abilities.
after Mike Kelley and quarterback Centering the ball without drop­Dame. start on defense. "He is a sound, fundamental foot­
Scott Grooms had four mishandled ping it was alot easier said than done "I came to Notre Dame to be part "There's a pretty good chance ball player who is a movable player
exchanges in the first half. Because Saturday, as rain soaked the field a of the best. My father went here, and that Jerry is going to start," says against the running game," says
Finnegan and Grooms had practiced throughout the game. As result, 
he instilled in me a desire to come Lantz. "If not, he'll play at least 50 Lantz. "He's not an over-poweringtogether on the second team all Finnegan had a hard time keeping here," Finnegan says. "So, when I percent of the time. pass rusher because he missed too
season, the 6·0, 246-pound senior his hands dry. had the chance, I grabbed it." "He had the ability to compete for much time when he was on offen~e
was confident that the problem of "The refs kept the ball pretty dry, Selmer feels that Finnegan had this position last spring, but we and we were working on pass rush
fumbled snaps could he corrected. but my hands kept getting wet from done a good job in his role as a moved him to offensive guard be· techniques. He has good quickness
"Scott and I have played well all the grass," Finnegan says. "lbey had reserve center. cause we felt that we needed him as a pass rusher. Ifhe gets into a one·
year together," Finnegan says. "I towels all over the field, but those there," continues Lantz. "I was very on-one situation, he is very effec­
worked with Scott (Grooms) while were wet too." "He's done well," comments Sel­pleased with him this spring. We did tive."
Mike Kelly had worked with Steve Centering the ball was not the mer. "He's a fine team player, works not move him to offense because we Overall. W einle has a good deal of
( Beuerlein), so the coaches put me only problem the foul weather hard and cooperates."j in the game to cut down on the num· caused for Finnegan. The rain made Finnegan has been disappointed didn't think he could play. We just confidence in his defensive game J ber offumbled snaps." it especially difficult to block the in the season so far, but is generally thought that it would be for the bet­and actually prefers it to the offen· 
terment of the team if we moved sive side of the ball.
One need not go any farther than quicker Air Force linemen. optomistic about the remainder of him there." "I feel more comfortable on
the second half statistics to see that However, Finnegan refused to the year. Weinle, who majored in mechani­defense," Weinle states.
the move was successful, as there blame the weather. 
"I want to make the best of the 
were no problems with the ex· "When the field is wet, it's hard to cal engineering, received an under­"Offensively, I think that I do some 
rest of this season," the senior says. 
graduate degree from the College of things well, but I think my weight
change between the center and get off the ball. You've got to play Engineering with a 3.08 grade point and size hurt me in other aspects of
quarterback after Finnegan entered cautiously because you're not sure "I think we can pull things together. average last May. Returning for his the game. On defense, I think that
the lineup. which way the defensive man's We still have some chances to knock final year of eligibility, the graduate I'm big enough and tall enough for
Carl Selmer, the head offensive going and you don't want to slip," offsome pretty good teams. We have is currently working towards a
line coach, was pleased with Fin­Finnegan points out. "We were slip­a great chance in the South Carolina 
see WEINLE, page 5
Master's degree in Business Ad­negan's play. ping a lot, but I don't want that to game to get back on the right track." 
..:. .... '· 
f • I f I t t • f t I ' t I I I 1 \ 

)LIN A SOUTH CAROLINA 
age2 lnsb Extra October 20, 1984-page 7 
ocks 
season. We're very happy to be 
·esses have come about because ense that he knows very well and 1t coaches and players to coach 7e've run the veer offense for nine .son explains. "It's a very tough lefensively and gives you a better 1 than the wishbone, but is similar 
v to accept some ofthe credit he :complishments, but Sac'ler, a Morrison, knows the man's value )gram. "There are three things ·ison that I have noticed since I've take him successful," says Sadler. ow to interview assistant coaches ·e going to be right for his staff. ligent himself, so he knows what :he game offootball are success­~eat administrator. He lets good aching and he handles the team at 
ough in his preparation, knows :lo, and goes out and does it. He tkes. But ifhe does, he'll take it He doesn't make the same 
son will never make is to under­m concept. "Most ofthe men are :things the way we do them after re than a year," Morrison says. 
be able to work together under · them to recognize the impor­ogether. 
•ional player gives you insights to >layers will react to certain things 
expands. "I think I've used that to our players." e insights and the knowledge to s in college football coaching. .he does can already been seen 
universities. But whatever on uses deserve to be examined. ult to find fault with his success. 
Milt Jackson to utilize the deep patterns more on Saturday as  
~er.  Carolina has had difficulty defending against the bomb.  
The other major stumbling block for the offense has been the  
absence of the running game. The holes just have not been there  
for Allen Pinkett and company. Notre Dame will have to s0lve  
:s  those problems or resort to opening up the ground game by being  
er  more successful with the passing game.  
"I wish I knew what the answer is as far as why our running game  
has bad such difficulty," says Faust. "We're just not controlling the  
the line ofscrimmage at all."  
The injury list for the Irish on offense i.s less extensive than it has  
been recently, with Larry Williams finally back to full strength after  
suffering various knee and ankle ailments. Alonzo Jefferson is also  
tt  slated to play after missing the Air Force game with a foot injury.  
t  South Carolina will counter with its reknown "Fire Ant" defense,  
named because ofits all-out, swarming style ofplay. So far this  
season, the Gamecocks have allowed only 112 yards per game on  
nd  the ground and just 268 total yards per game.  
"South Carolina is as impressive as anyone we've seen on  
of  defense," says Faust. "They're a lot like Miami in terms oftheir team  
ith  speed and their ability to have people around all the time. They  

.d 
'S, 
e 
1­
~r 
ld 
pursue well and make it tough to move the football." 
The Carolina secondary is a veteran group, with three players returning with considerable experience, and two sophomores who have been impressive so far this season. Bryant Gilliard, a senior free saftey, leads the secondary with 44 tackles and two intercep­tions. Sophomores Chris Major and Otis Morris will get the starting nods at the cornerback positions, even though seniors Gilliard and Hilton Tayloe started in those spots last season. Joe Brooks, another sophomore, gets the nod a strong safety. 
The Gamecock linebacking corps is also a strength of the defense, with seniors Paul Vogel andJames Seawright leading the team in tackles. Vogel has 49 tackles and six stops for lost yardage, while Seawright adds 47. The weakside linebacker position is filled by freshman Carl Hill. 
Maybe the biggest weakness of the South Carolina defense is in 
John Carney's Kicking Stats 
Field Goals PAT's 6-of-6 13-of-13 
Chris Smith 
Senior fullback takes events in stride 

By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
It is said that adversity builds character. If this is true, then any athlete that plays for Notre Dame should expect to build some character after four years. Simply by donning a Notre Dame uniform, an athlete is taking on the challenge ofrepresenting the university for football, and with this task comes an awful lot of pressure. But one competitor who has taken this challenge and done well is senior fullback Chris Smith. 
"There is a lot ofpressure at this place," says Smith. "Once opponents see those gold helmets, they get just as charged up as we are wearing them. They want to upset Notre Dame." 
Smith, a 6-2, 231-pound Cincinnati, Ohio, native, is one Ohio football player who did not attend that famed high school. Rather, he played out his high school career at a rival institution, LaSalle High School. "It wasn't an intense rivalry, but we were over­shadowed by Moeller," recalls Smith. "My freshman, sophomore and junior years, we never beat them on the varsity level. Finally, my senior year, we felt a little more optimistic. We had beaten their seniors a few years earlier in junior high play. But I guess it just wasn't to be. We lost again. In fact, in the history ofmy school, we had never beaten Moeller. So when Coach Faust went to Notre Dame and recruited me, I thought, ifI can't beat him, I'll join him." 
Smith completed his senior year as a consensus prep all-America choice following mention onParade and Adidas/Scbolastic Coach. A three-time letter-winner at running back, Smith totaled 2,110 career rushing yards at LaSalle and was named captain of an all-Greater Cincinnati League squad as a senior. But Smith was not satisfied. He set high goals for himself upon entering Notre Dame as a freshman. "When I came to Notre Dame, I wanted to contribute to the team as much as possible," explains Smith. "In fact, I wanted to letter. And I felt it was within reach for me." 
As extra incentive toward accomplishing this goal, 
Smith was rooming with fellow Ohio native and rival 
fullback, Mark Brooks. "Mark is like a brother to me,"
Lifetime Record 
72-50-5 

Smith says. "So it was a little hard to be so competitive with him. We had our few, rare occasions that were trying, but nothing real serious. In fact, the competi­
• • • Gamecocks 
its line positions. "We have a small defensive line," says Morrison. 
"We hope we will be able to contain Notre Dame's size." 
Carolina's defensive ends are small, but have been able to handle 
anything they have confronted so far this season. Tony Guyton, a 
6-0, 210-pound junior, and sophomore Willie Mcintee, at 6-2, 222 
pounds, are major reasons for the low rushing figures for 
Gamecock opponents. 

The balance ofthe defensive line has some experience, with 
tackles Frank Wright and Glenn Woodley having respectable size 
and returning as starters. Backup Fitzgerald Davis leads the team in 
stops for lost yardage with seven. 
The kicking game and specialty teams: 
The Gamecocks lost career record-holding kicker Mark Fleetwood after last season. Fleetwood was 39-of-53 in field goals in his career. Sophomore Scott Hagler has taken his place, but has connected on only three-of-five attempts, (one-of-three over 40 yards), but has proved to be solid in the extra-point department, hitting on all 22 ofhis attempts. 
Junior Tom O'Connor handles the punting duties for South Carolina, averaging 41.4 yards per effort. O'Connor is also replacing a record-setter in Chris Norman, who holds the single-season punting record. 
Returning punts will be sophomore Terry Dunlap, who is averaging 9.6 yards per return. The team as a whole is rated 18th in the country with a 9. 5 average. 
Probably the most consistent part of the Notre Dame football squad has been the punting and placekicking. Mike Viracola, although he had a sub-par performance last week, is averaging 40.3 yards per boot. John Carney, althouh the offense has not been getting the ball within his field-goal range, has come through on all six ofhis field goal tries and 1 3 PAT's. 
Keys to the game: 

It is no secret that Notre Dame is not at an emotional peak at this point in the season, and a loss to South Carolina would seemingly doom the Irish to feelings of despair. 
There is no doubt that Notre Dame should be able to stay in the game, and could pull it out ifsome breaks go its way. The Irish have to regain their composure, and a win would do that. 
"lbis is a good football team that will be out to prove something after losing their last two games at home," states Morrison. "We don't have a whole lot to say whether Notre Dame losing two games in a row is going to work for or against them. That will be up to them." 
Faust is calling Saturday's game "a chance for redemption." He may be right. There is no reason why his team should be stagnating on a losing trend. 
Notre Dame still has five games left in the season, and now is no time to give up on this team. However, the Irish need a win, and they need one badly. A victory over the Gamecocks would be as good as gold for Notre Dame fortunes. 
tion really helped us in a way. The better he got, the 
more I was pushed, and vice versa, both on and off the 
field." 
In the 1981 season opener against Louisiana State, Smith came out strong, gaining 61 yards on eight carries. He continued to contribute, playing in eight games as a freshman and finishing fourth in rushing with 161 yards and one touchdown. Smith didn't letter at the fullback position, though. Instead, he made his contribution at the tailback slot. But after the success­ful rookie campaign, a new kid arrived on the block by the name ofAllen Pinkett, and some position juggling was required. The coaches knew the athletic ability and potential ofSmith, and felt a talent like his-didn't belong on the bench. 
Smith was tried with the linebacking corps at the beginning of the 1982 season. But despite his hard work and dedication, it was decided that linebacker was not the position where Smith's talent would be best utilized. So midway through the season, Smith found himself back at the more comfortable position of fullback. Because ofall the movement, his sopho­more year was not the most productive statistically. But he kept plugging away. 
By 1983, it seemed as ifSmith was settled in at fullback, as he split playing time with Brooks. But the '83 offense wasn't geared all that much toward Smith. "It was very frustrating not to be used more in the season," Smith recalls. "Our offense just wasn't geared for incorporating the fullback frequently. I knew what I could do to help the team and I just wanted to go out there and do it. It was really an incentive, though, to play with an Allen Pinkett. It inspired me to watch him because I realized, here was a talented runner who has accomplished so much. He got where he is today because ofhard work and team work. He needs the linemen and the backs to do what he does. so I feel that I am some small part ofhis success, too .. 
A bruising runner and blocker, Smith earned more than his share ofresponsibility for the Irish in '83. He racked up 421 yards on 77 carries while starting 11 games. But Smith's time to shine came in post-season action when the Irish took on Boston College in the Liberty Bowl. He carried the ball 18 times for 104 yards, his best game as a collegian. Many eyes stood up and took notice of this new force emerging from the backfield... especially the coaches. "I think the Liberty Bowl opened the coaches' eyes more to see how my position could be better utilized," says Smith. "Now their philosophy is to get the fullback into the scheme of things and intergrate the position into the offense. You won't hear any complaints from me about that." 
And ifSmith continues to produce, you certainly won't hear any complaints from Irish fans either. But when the negative comments do flow, Smith can understand why. "Whether it's deserved or not, the fans will comment," Smith says. "When we win, we get credit for the win. When we lose, we should get credit for the loss. And I think the team has matured because ofit. I feel I have in my four years. Our maturity and growth, however, isn't measured in the tangibles, in the win-loss column. But it's there."

Chris Smith 
ND fullback 
--~-~--~'­
\. 

\ 
! SOUTH CAROLINA October 20, 1984-page 8
\ lnsb Extra
' ) 
\ 
\ 
~ 1 NOTRE DAME VS. SOUTH CAROLINA 

THE GAME 
THE STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. South Carolina Gamecocks 
Last 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1737 2112 Pinkett 6 112 391 3.5 6 20 Total Plays 394 439 Jefferson 6 29 93 3.2 2 10 
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 
TIME: 11:20 EST; Saturday, Oct. 20, 1984 
Yards per Play 4.4 4.8 Brooks 6 22 89 4.0 2 12
1V-RADIO: ESPN Live National Telecast 
Year's 
Yards per Game 289.5 352.0 Smith 6 24 80 3.3 0 15 
Jim Thacker and Ed Biles 

PENAL TIES-YARDS 31-226 32-301 Flemons 1 10 31 3.1 0 15 FUMBLES-LOST 19-7 16-11 Monahan 3 2 17 8.5 0 10 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 107 122 Miller 2 1 13 13.0 0 13
WNDU-lV (Ch. 16) 

By Rushing 48 68 DeHueck 1 3 11 3.7 0 6
Jeffjeffers and jack Nolan 

Game 
By Passing 51 49 Starns 3 1 5 5.0 0 5 By Penalty 8 5 Machtolf 1 2 3 1.5 0 2 TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 84-36 85-37 Carter 1 2 1 0.5 0 1 Percentage .429 .435 Jackson 6 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4
Harry Kalas and George Connor 

POSSESSION TIME 166:56 193:04 Grooms 2 13 -21 -1.6 0 7 Minutes per Game 27:49 32:11 Beuerlein 5 27 -24 -0.9 0 18
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network 
OctoberS, 1983 

Notre Dame 13 10 0 7 30
Tony Roberts, Pat Sheridan, Luther Bradley 

NOTRE DAME 6 249 685 2.8 10 20
South Carolina 0 0 6 0 6 
SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP OPPONENTS 6 312 1151 3.7 9 48
WNDU-AM 1500 

Scoring NO -Johnston49 FG 
Pinkett 6 7 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 42
NO-Smith 26 pass from Beuerlein (Johnston kick) 
SERIES: Notre Dame 3. South Carolina 0 
Carney 6 0 13-13 0-0 0 6-6 31 PASSING G NO CO PCTINT YDS TO 
NO-Johnston 27 FG
LAST MEETING: October 8, 1983 
Jackson 6 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 ------------------­Notre Dame 30, South Carolina 6 
NO -Johnston 41 FG 
Jefferson 6 2 0-0 1·0 0 0-0 14 Beuertein 5 106 67 .632 8 894 5 SC-Hagood 1 run (pass failed) 
NO-Pinkett 59 pass from Bauerlein (Johnston kick) 
Brooks 6 2 0-0 o-o o 0-0 12 Grooms 2 38 14 .368 1 134 1 (AP) Notre Dame unranked, South Carolina 11th 
NO-Pinkett 2 run (Johnston kick) 
Ward 5 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Andrysiak 1 0 0 .000 0 0 0
RANKINGS: 
NO SC 

Chura 1 0 1·1 0-0 0 1-1 4 ------------------­
TICKETS: Game is sold out 
First downs 17 16 
Ball age 6 0 0-0 0-0 1 0-0 2 NO 6 145 82 .566 91052 6
Rushing attempts 48 48 
VonWyl 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 0-0 1 OPP 6 127 76 .598 6 961 6
Net Yards Rushing 199 157 Net Yards Passing 163 82 Passes romp-attempted 9-14 1Q-25 
NO 6 16 15-15 1-0 1 7-7136 
DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FA BK Had intercepted 0 2 
OPP 615 9-11 2-4 1 6-9123 Total Net Yards 362 239 
Kovaleski 74 2-4 2 0 0
THE SCHEDULE 
Fumbles-lost 1-1 5-1 
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Furjan1c 48 0-0 1 0 0
Penalties-yards 9-1 05 8·90 
NOTRE DAME SEPT. 8 lost to Purdue, 23-21 SEPT. 15 def. Mich. St., 24-20 SEPT. 22 def. Colorado, 55-14 SEPT. 29 def. Missouri, 16-14 OCT. 6lost to Miami, 31-13 OCT. 13 lost to Air Force, 21-7 OCT. 20 SOUTH CAROLINA OCT. 27 at L.S.U. NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands NOV. 17 PENN STATE NOV. 24 at Southern Cal 
SOUTH CAROLINA SEPT. 8 def. 'Ibe Citadel, 31-24 SEPT. 15 def. Duke, 21-0 SEPT. 29 def. Georgia, 1 7 · 10 OCT. 6 def. Kansas State, 49-1 7 OCT. 13 def. Pittsburgh, 45-21 OCT. 20 at Notre Dame OCT. 27 EAST CAROLINA NOV. 3 at N.C. State NOV. 10 FLORIDA STATE NOV. 17 at Navy NOV. 24 at Clemson 

Punts-average 4-49,5 5-38.6 
Individual Leedera 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett23·110; Smith 11· 75; Brooks 5-24; Francisco 5-12: Beuerlein 3-(·8); Kiel 1-(-14); South Carolina: Hagood 14·79; Dendy 9-33; Lewis 7·23: Hillary 1·10; Mitchell9-5; Desmond 8-7; 
PASSING -Notre Dame: Bauerlein 9-13-0; Kiel 0-1· O; South Carolina: Mitchell4-14-2; Desmond 6-11·0 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Smith 3-45; Pinkett 2­61; Howard 2-20: Bavaro 1-21; Favorite 1·16; South Carolina: Dendy 4·41; Poole 2-37; Hagood 1-6; Hil­lary 1-4; LeWis 1-2; Berry 1 ·8: 
Attendance--74,500 
McCabe  40  1-1  0  1  0  
Bavaro  6  20  247  12.3  0  24  Johnson  39  0-0  1  0  0  
Jackson  6  17  189  11.1  4  31  Banks  39  3-6  0  0  0  
Brown  6  15  164  10.9  0  19  Ball age  39  0-0  3  1  0  
Pinkett  6  11  138  12.5  1  40  Gann  31  11-79  0  3  0  
Howard  6  6  99  16.5  0  26  Kleine  31  6-20  0  2  0  
Smith  6  4  45  11.2  0  18  Wilson  30  0-0  2  1  0  
Jefferson  6  3  40  13.3  0  27  Lawrence  22  0-0  3  2  0  
Ward  5  2  84  42.0  1  74  Francisco  22  0-0  0  0  0  
Miller •  2  1  15  15.0  0  15  Griffin  20  2-5  0  0  1  
Brooks  6  1  13  13.0  0  13  Golic  17  1-4  0  0  0  
Gray  6  1  11  11.0  0  11  DiBernardo  17  0-0  2  0  0  
Cusack  6  1  7  7.0  0  7  Haywood  15  0-0  0  0  2  
Dingens  13  2·12  0  1  0  
NOTRE DAME  6  82 1052  12.8  6  74  Figaro  13  0-0  0  0  0  
OPPONENTS  6  76  961  12.6  6  50  Dorsey  12  0-0  1  0  0  





PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS(?) 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major col­lege football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS. 
IOWA over Michigan by 6. 5 Boston College over WEST VIRGINIA by 2.S MIAMI over Pittsburgh by 14 Ohio State over MICHIGAN STATE by 7 PENN STATE over Syracuse by 6. S GEORGIA over Vanderbilt by 6.5 Alabama over TENNESSEE by 2. S Wisconsin over INDIANA by 7 AUBURN over Georgia Tech by 9. S Brigham Young over AIR FORCE by 6 ILLINOIS over Purdue by ' Louisiana State over KE:'>JTCCKY by 2. 5 :\IINNESOTA over Northwestern by 10 South Carolina over NOTRE DAME by 1.5 
=i(  r.~1  

 ~ .;,..•.+i~',/,···· ;:f:-·:·  
Larry Burke Sports Writer 3~Q-2 .493 Wolverines Mountaineers Hurricanes Buckeyes Orangemen Commodores Tide Badgers Tigers Cougars lllini Tigers Wildcats Gamecocks •'  Jeff Blumb Asst. Sports Editor 32-47-2 .418 Wolverines Eagles Hurricanes Buckeyes Lions Bulldogs Volunteers Badgers Jackets Falcons lllini Tigers Wildcats Gamecocks . ;:r,.....  Theron Roberts Sports Writer 32-47-2 .418 Hawkeyes Eagles Hurricanes Spartans Lions Bulldogs Tide Badgers Jackets Falcons Illini Wildcats Gophers Game<·ocks  ~  Ed Domansky Sports Writer 32-47-2 .418 Hawkeyes Eagles Panthers Buckeyes Lions Bulldogs Volunteers Badgers Jackets Falcons Illini Tigers Wildcats Game<:o<:ks ."to­+  Mike Sullivan Sports Editor 31-48-2 .395 Hawkeyes -Eagles Hurricanes Buckeyes Orangemen Commodores Tide Hoosiers Jackets Falcons Illini Wildcats Wild<:ats Gamecocks • t  Darby II Guest Celebrity 33-46-2 .420 (last week ­4-8-2) Wolverines Mountaineers Panthers Spartans Orangemen Commodores Volunteers Hoosiers Jackets Falcons Boilers Wildcats \X'ildcats Irish  Mary Ann Raeker Random Student 41-38-2 .519 (last week-7-5-2) Hawkeyes Mountaineers Hurricanes Spartans Lions Bulldogs Tide Badgers Tigers Falcons lllini Wildcats Wildcats Gamen>cks • • ...  



