-------~---------------~-~---------­
SMC Judicial Board-page 3 

. ·-'"'\
College reveals 

science hall plans 
' 
ByJOANIE GIBLIN the renovation. .-. SluffReporler "In the four-year period following 
-
the opening of the present science 
'Ibe S6.5 million Saint Mary's Sci· facility, there were 160 science ence Hall renovation is slated to majors. During the period from hcgin by March, 198S according to 1980 to 1983 we expect to see ap· Vice President and Dean of Faculty proximately 445 science majors in Dr. William Hickey. our biology, chemistry and medical "We hope to go to our Board of technology programs," noted Regents in October with the final Hickey. " These students are now cost estimate, as wdl as all of the taught by a staff of 16 full-time, 2 final details, for approval," said part-time faculty, and 3 full-time lab­Hickt•y. "Subsequent to that, we oratory assistants. In addition, the hope to start accepting bids for a nursing program, which enrolls contractor in January 1985, begin about 60 students per year, has had a construction in March of that year, significant impact on the science and see the project complt:ted in the facility." fall of I 986." Hickey said the conditions which 
Plans for the renovation and addi· exist in the present facility are not tion have been in the works since only inadequate, but unsafe. "The 1979. The College hired ·a consul· crowded conditions and the use ofa tant in 1981, and sdected the Min· variety of chemicals, instruments, nesota architectural firm of Sovik, etc., make safety a very real concern Mathrc, Sathrum and Quanbeck in for all of us. Addressing these prob· 1982 from a large group of inter· I ems, however, is only the minimum viewees. for an institution that would like to 
Clinton Sathrum, a senior mem· suggest that it continues to offer a her of the firm, was named building first-rate education in the sciences." consultant, due to his work on sci· The need for research space and ence buildings at other schools. equipment is great, especially for 
"It goes without saying that the the senior science majors. Hickey case for a science facility was made commented, "Science has to be impressively years ago, long before done, not just studied." 
Student Body Vice President Cathy David confers
the formal planning began," said The new facility will include: con· 
with other members of the Student Senate at last
Hickey. "'Ibc present science facility trolled environmental spaces, in· was built in 1955 for an institution strument rooms, computer facilities, with an enrollment of 700 students. as well as highly sophisticated At that time, there were five full· pieces of equipment essential for a 
Senate debates election procedures
time members ofthe science faculty, variety ofscientific experiments. 
and the only requirement in this This project will provide 75,000 

By MIKE MILLEN amendment, which failed 10·3, status after the event was held two area for the non-science major was a , square feet ( 32,000 existing and SluffReporler would have penalized candidates for years ago. He said total cost was mathematics. 43,000 new) at a proposed total cost
year of science or Observer endorsements. Henry 545,000 and a net loss of J4,500 was 
Presently, all students must take a of $ 6,500,000. This expenditure in· An animated discussion regarding Sienkiewicz, Ombudsman director, sustained. The event would prob­
year of laboratory science and the dudes not only new construction the merits ofelection endorsements pointed out the inconsistent rela· ably break even "if we kept out the enrollment stands at 1,800." and remodeling, but also numerous 
by The Observer took place at last tionship between election victories t-shirts... and had a non-refundable The increased number of science furnishings and pieces of equip· 
night's Student Senate meeting. and Observer endorsements. deposit," Novas said, noting that "we majors during the past 28 years, the ment. There will be additions in the 
The discussion centered around Alison Yurko, executive coordina­kept a lot of the records." Final ap·re-establishment of the nursing pro­area ofelectron microscopy, as well the Ombudsman election rules and a tor, agreed, adding "let's give the proval will be sought at the upcom­gram, and the growth offull-time sci· 
see SCIENCE, page 3 a proposed addition to them. The students a little more credit (than ing Campus Life Council meeting. cnce faculty are other reasons for simply follwing Observer opinion)." 
Sophomore Class President Jim Student Senator Pat Browne 
Domalgowski was completely proposed a resolution to allocate a

Mondale blasts Reagan policies 
against the amendment, noting the social activities budget for senators. 
A.'isoclated Press 
importance of communication be· "I think it would help the social life level ofsteel imports for five years to Louisville and Oct. 21 in Kansas City, tween politicians and media. "Don't around the campus," Browne said.

WASHINGTON · Walter Mondale give industry a chance to raise capi· Mo., as annnounced yesterday by 
let personal experience with The Judicial Board Chairman Joe Zahn

said Sunday that President Reagan tal. the League of Women Voters in Observer slant your view," he said. pointed out "senators were strictlyhas hccn "essentially absent" from Mondale recalled that four years Washington. The league will also legislative," when their positionsthe search for peace in the Middle ago when Reagan was running for sponsor a vice presidential debate 
Some senate members were con· were created but Senator Tom 

East and that four more years under president he visited a steel mill in between George Bush and 
cerned with the ambiguity of the Abood countered "we can expandthe president's leadership "will take Youngstown, Ohio, and told Geraldine Ferraro Oct. I 1 in 
proposed rules. Section Four of the on that." 

us closer to the brink" of war. workers, "I won't forget you." Philadelphia. 
amendment states campaigning in "No wonder the world has the jit· Mondale said, "He forgot you and Reagan planned two campaign 
Observer offices is forbidden. "With Kevin McGovern, student ac­

ters," the Democratic presidential it's now your turn to forget him." trips this week· to Connecticut and manager, noted "the
the exception being the interviews tivites board 
NewJersey on Wednesday and Iowa

candidate said as he assaulted In his foreign policy speech, for Observer endorsement, these entertainment commissioner talked Reagan's record in U.S.-Soviet rela­Mondale displayed the newly ag· and Michigan on Thursday. meetings will be held within the twice with the dorm reps," adding tions, Central America, human rights gressivc style he first unveiled late His running mate, Vice President "things can be done district wide."
time allowed for campaigning." Rule last week. George Bush, was out on the hus­

and Middle Eastt:rn polk-y. II, however, states "no one may St. Edward's Hall President Duane In an address to a group ofJewish "We want jobs, we don't want tings, however, observing the na· 
receive or solicit public endorse­Lawrence added, "I think it's the supporters, Mondale said Reagan has jingles...We do not want policy by tion's largest naturalization 

ments... from any organization with senator's job to contact dorm presi· been "essentially absent" from the evasion, economics by rabbit foot, ceremony. 
normal working hours." dents if something is lacking." 'Inc 

st·arch for peace in the Middle East government by a smile button and "All Americans are immigrants, or resolution failed to pass. and "has squandered the promise of leadership by isolation," he said. the descendants of immigrants. Our Rule II also states "no one may the Camp David accords between Mondale made his remarks as he common experience ofimmigration receive or solicit public endorse· A motion to perform two cvalua· 
Egypt and Israel." set out on a cross-country campaign develops an unseen but insoluble ments from any official organization tions on the president, vice presi­Mondalc said he would "scrap the day, the first leg of a long week of bond of partnership among us," the ur its members." This directly con· dent, and senators passed 7-6. failed Reagan plan" for peace in the campaigning in which he is seeking vice president told the 9,706 new flicts with Rule I2 which says "no Student Body President Rob Ber­tino, who cast the deciding vote,
rt·gion and give the new Israeli gov­to narrow the gap in public-opinion Americans who had taken the oath one may receive endorsement... un­t·rnmt·nt time to develop its own polls. of citizenship at the Orange Bowl in til the actual campaigning period said "the students have a right to policies toward the Arabs. He also Asked about a new NBC poll that Miami. begins." 
know" what their represt•ntatives said he would move the U.S. em· showed him trailing Reagan by 30 "Welcome to your country," Bush After 35 minutes of what one sen· are doing. Ray Wise, executive co­hassy in lsrad toJerusalem. points, Mondalc said, "Recent polls told the pa<:kcd stadium. "'Ibis land ate member later termed "fruitless" ordinator, thought the measure to 'lht· presidential candidate arc all over the map." His own aides, is now your land. But America is debate, the original set of rules was be ineffectual, stating "the only way charged that Reagan has pursued a meanwhile, said Mondalc's most more than a land. It is an idea." i:abled for discussion at a future you can be assured people will read recent private polls indicated that Bush's opponent, Democratic meeting. it (the evaluation) is by putting it in 
policy of "illusions" that has in· eluded dealing with Israel at times as he had gained about 3 points, indica· vice presidential candidate their mailbox." 'Inc tirst evaluation though it were an adversary. ting that he remains about 12 points Geraldine Ferraro, took the day off Senate members were generally will be a subjective critique given 
Late yesterday at an l.'IV steel behind the president. from campaigning yesterday before in favor of reinstating the Lit Sib's only to the senators, while the plant in Cleveland. Mondale pro· Mondale has two chances next heading to the Midwest and South· Weekend. Student Body Treasurer second wlll consist of factual infor­posed cutting in half the current month to debate Reagan · Oct. 7 in west. AI Novas reported the financial mation printed in The Observer. 


The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1984 -page 2 

In Brief 
¥ 
An Alabama judge recently dismissed a lawsuit filed against two Auburn University fraternities. The suit claimed a sorority and fraternity had provided alcoholic beverages at a campus event, thus contributing to a fatal care accident which followed. A county district judge ruled, however, that the plaintiffs had no evidence alcohol was sold orgiven away at the party. -TheObserver 
Of Interest 
Dr.James Hitchcock, religious scholar,professor of history at St. Louis University and chairman of the Catholic League for Religion and Civil Rights, will assess whether the church sup­ports the economic and social rights of the family in a talk at the Notre Dame Law School at noon Thursday, May 20. The lecture is sponsored by the Thomas). White Center on Law and Government, and is open to the public. -The Observer 
The World Hunger Coalition wednesday lunch fast begins tomorrow. For every student who has signed up for the fast and skips lunch, a dollar will be donated to feed the hungry. ­
The Observer 
Rewrite the Script: Dump Reagan and Reaganism will be the theme of the fifth annual conference of the Progressive Student Network at the Univerisity of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. The conference, which will be held Oct. 6 and 7, meets to contribute to the effort to end the policies of President Ronald Reagan. The PSN was formed in November of 1980 as an immediate response to Reagan's presidential victory. -The Observer 
The Stratford Drama Festival still has a few places open. The trip will be during October break and the fee is 587 (slightly more for faculty), which covers transportation, lodging and tickets to four plays. Deadline for sign-ups is Friday, May 21. Contact Professors Paul Rathburn or Sonia Gernes for more information. -The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh,university Presi­dent, will address the value of a liberal education in a lecture this evening at 7:30. The lecture, to be held in Washington Hall, is the first of a series planned by the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Counceil. -The Observer 
Volunteer drivers for the golf cart for the handi­capped are still needed. There will be an informational meeting for all current and new drivers this evening at 6:15 in the coffee house at the Center for Social Concerns. Please consider offering some of your free time for this much appreciated service. If interested and unable to attend this meeting, call Sr. Nadine Overbeck at 239-6515.­
Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Mostly sunny and warmer today! High in the middle or upper 70s. Fair and warmer tonight. Low in the middle or upper 50s. Mostly sunny and warm tomorrow. High in the lower 80s. -AP 


Mr. Hickey, lettuce talk 
Dear Mr. Hickey, I have heard that you are a very understanding man, the only member of the administration who listens to 
Tom Mowle 
what students say. So, I would like to comment on some 
Day Chief
ofthe things which have happened in the dining halls of late. 
Inside Tuesday
The walls in the North Dining Hall have disappeared, to the great joy ofnearly everyone who ate there. This is one bit ofevidence which supports your reputation as a 
listener. Yet, happy though I am with this change, I have had all the toppings I wanted; strangely, no one might even be willing to have them back ifonly I could had been eating them. · have the rest of the dining experience upgraded. I myself see advantages to each dining hall. But it 
Last year may have been the pinnacle of culinary seems someone is trying to end the great debate in favor pleasures here, I fear. Dinners were passable, and of the North. Please stop them. My International Rela­lunches were actually good. I looked forward to lunch tions professor has told me of the unfairness of the then. No more deli line, like freshman year. No, I could North-South economic disparity, and of its potential confidently go to North Dining Hall and commit myself consequences. The North cannot handle the refugees. to a regular food line without even knowing what Indeed, neither seems to have the resources to han­would be served. This was a pleasant contrast to the die the current population. If it is between 12: 1 5 and year before when I made the 1:15, gaze out your window long t_rek to ~e South, He ·usl-waited A11 J yov.'re ,-j9l,f_lat the teeming masses where 1t was eas1er to move j . Tne do turn waiting for they know not to the deli upon seeing what ~5 mh'utes ~ ~ what. You are not a cruel was being served. or t IS· · · "'-.. . / pa e· 1 man, Mr. Hickey. I beg you, 
But what has happened, ,..-=:::::=~~f/~~~~~~~~ take pity on them, and on 
Bill? This year I have yet to 'I those who do not have the eat a meal I was really / .,serole (l'I~'>1Y1 time to eat at all because of pleased with. The dinners /1 ~.,rpri'>e _ M€"' :-~ the lines. have not really declined that _ •• · ' ~ Perhaps you feel my basis
~~· much; I was very pleased ~~cy-:i .~' for judgement of the dining with my meatless chicken ~ halls is too limited to be fair. last night. It was indeed an Over the summer I attended innovation worthy of Yale. Air Force Field Training
I But the lunches... It is sad to along with a variety of col-once again dread the un-./ lege students from all over known. ~t1-" W 'HZ the northeastern quarter of 
I would not be so upset the U.S. To a man, they com-with the poor quality of the plained about the quality of dinners except that these the food. I thought it was comments cannot be lim-rather good, but then what ited to the food. In earlier times, ifI found a dinner un­experience do I have in such matters? palatable, I could always get a nutritious salad. But alas, I realize you try very hard to please the students, and I 
it seems there has been an embargo on such things at appreciate it. I am only raising these issues because I 
the South Dining Hall. There have been no bowls there know you will listen. I am very confident that, now for salads or desserts or anything else the last several aware of these issues, you will act swiftly to rectify mat­times I have eaten there. 
ters. Thank you. Even ifthere were bowls, I admit I still would not be completely pleased. I, like many college students, do Sincerely 
not put peanut butter or ketchup on my salad. Yet this is 
what has been in the salad dressing bins. This is by no 
means a new occurence; I have always felt an advantage Thomas S. Mowle 
of the North over the South was that the North had bet­
ter salad bars. They still do, but the disparity between 
Tbe Observer encourages the free expresslon of opinions through letters 
the two is becoming gross. 
to the: editor. Letters should be brief(approximately 2SO words) and typed 
One thing I have looked forward to during my under­
whenever possible. All letters should be signed (although the author's name 
grad years has been Sundae Night on Sunday nights. But 
need not be published), and should Include a phone: number at which the 
this has also been taken from me, at least at the South 
author may be reached. Letters are published on a Space-available basis. Let­
Dining Hall. There was almost no ice cream there; what 
ters are edited to correct errors in grammar and for space considerations. 
there was had the consistency of warm milk. I could 
•--------------------------~ 

THE ANSWER IS 
·; ;f ' 



vn11 
YOU 

HELP SAVE BABIES 
~Support the 
~!9!t9.tQ~[l~ 
DANCE -DANCE -DANCE 
ABIOGENESIS DANCE **COLLECTIVE ** 
rs HOLDING AUDITIONS FOR THEIR 
DANCE COMPANY Wed., Sept. 19 7 P.M. 
in the basement ofHoly Cross Hall at Notre Dame Everyone welcome No experience required 
Sundays 5-6 P.M.-------JAZZ 
Tuesdays 6-7 P.M.-----BALLET 
7-8 P.M.-JANE FONDA WORKOUT 
Wednesdays 5-6 P.M.---MODERN 
Classes begin at basic level 
.~·.ii held in basement ofHoly Cross at N.D. 
Questions? Call Steve at 2329 Kathy at 4136 


The Observer 
lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Sarurdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Obsen-er is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor .............................. Tom Small Design Assistant........................ Paul Bruce Layout Staff.......................... Kristin Anders Typesetters ................ )ennlfer and Kathryn News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor'" ............................. )ohn Heasly Sports Copy Editor .......... Theron Roberts Viewpoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce Viewpoint Copy Editor.......... Katie Doyle ND Day Editor ........................ Barb Stevens SMC Day Edltor........................)ody Radler Ad Design ................................ Susan O'Hara Photographer ............... Chiatanya Panchal 

The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1984-page 3 

Science 
continuedfrom page I 
as an extensive facility devoted to warm and cold-blooded animals. A radio isotope room for working with radioactive materials, and many new laboratories, classrooms, offices and storage space wlll be constructed. Hickey added, "Every faculty office will have either a micro-computer or a terminal connected to the main system, presently housed in LeMans Hall. Faculty, as well as students, will have access to the computer lab. There will be a student lounge and a faculty lounge, as well." 
Dr. Margaret Cavanaugh, associ· ate professor oflnorganic Chemistry said she is "looking forward· to the project quite a bit," and that "it will create a much better environment." "'Ibc emphasis will be on additional lab space, more space for regular classes, a~ well a~ advanced student research." 
Concerning the problem of noise during construction and the inter­ference with cla~ses, Cavanaugh said, "We are presently thinking of ways to reschedule cla~ses to reduce the level of noise for students and teachers. It will be difficult, but luck­ily most ofthe heavier work will take place in the summer." 
Dr. Richard Pilger, professor of Chemistry and Physics, is also looking forward to the new facility. "We'll put up with all of the 'horriblcs' during construction, and we know that in the process there will be problems, but. boy, we need 


This is an artist's sketch of the renovation to Saint Mary's Sctence Hall. The constructtor.• will start in March, 1985, and should end in 1986. 
it." 
Pilger echoed Hickey's thoughts on the need for more space. "Many of the present faculty offices were originally built to be janitor's closets or cloak rooms. Our coffee room and computer room arc now located in what was once a simple closet." Pilger noted that many fa<:ulty mem· hers, himself included, have done most of the designs on the labs and general floor plans. 
Although this project will take a great deal of time, effort and money, most faculty and stafffcelthe renova­tion will be well worth any incon­venience. 





SMC judicial process offers options 
By MARY LOUISE PADDEN 
News Staff 
The arrest of a Saint Mary's junior in Indianapolis during the Notre Dame-Purdue weekend drew atten­tion, yet little has been said of Col· lege policy concerning such situations. 
According to Sr. Karol Jackowski, dean of student affairs, the College 
~ "Chips" Michiana's Newest Night Spot 
_ Tues. Night Special 4 · 9 Mixed Drinks 2 lor 1 233 4858 "Double" Happy Hours ... Midnight to close 
Hugr TV scref'n ............... Dance Floor. . . . . ... No Covert 
• Located: Take Eddy St. to Mish. Ave... First Stop Light Tum right 
PILOT PRECISE ROLLING BALL PENS. ~W WE GIVE YOU ACHOICE. 



If you love fine writing, now you can choose between two Precise Rolling Ball pens that write so fine yet flow so smoothly you'll wonder how we made it possible. It's only The Precise that allows you to write beautiful!~ in ei~er fine or extra fine pornt. The price? It's even finer. Only $1.19. I 

PILOT PRECISE ROLLING BALL PENS. 
2 OF THE FINER THINGS IN LIFE. 


does not have to take any action in regards to the arrest. "In cases in· volving off-campus violations . . . which are handled through civil proceedings outside the College, there is no reason to bring the inci· dent to the attention of a Judicial Board as the student has already been sanctioned for the offense." 
Should the College be notified of such a violation, the student in ques­tion would receive a letter ack· nowledging the arrest and offering help in the form oflegal assistance. 
According to the Student Affairs Office, no other arrests on charges of underage drinking have been brought to their attention so far this year. However due to the apparent growing popularity of off-campus socializing, more violations are ex· pected. 
In the pa~t. several hall directors have helped to bail out students held on charges of under-age drinking. For the most part the hall director has little if any disciplinary power concerning off-campus violations, unless the case is referred back to the school for judicial proceedings. 
Should this be necessary, the stu· dent in question is notified and re­quired to meet with the director within 48 hours, the beginning ofall judicial proceedings. From this point four options are available. 
An agreement between the stu­dent and the hall director is the basis for deciding upon the best course of action. The severity of the violation most often provides the basis for this decision. In cases when the violation is relatively minor, the initial meeting between the student and the hall director serves as a hearing providing the individual that filed the report is present. 
Ahearing by the Student Relations Board is the next option. This board is designed to encourage self· discipline. Peer influence is utilized to enforce regulations and assure student rights and responsiblities. This Board is chaired by the Student 
Judicial Commissioner and includes a total of eight members. The Dean's board is the next option followed by the Administrative Hearing Board which is the highest ranking Board in the Saint Mary's College judicial system. 
The hearing procedure itself is the same for each of the different boards. And the student retains the right to challenge any board mem­ber or charge, to waive the right to testify, and to question any witness appearing against her. 
All information is considered con­fidential and access to any records is closed to all but the student, hall director, and dean of student af. fairs."The greatest fear of any stu­dent facing judicial proceedings is that everyone will find out," com­mented Jackowski. "As a rule, the College will not open the records to anyone." 
In the majority ofca~es, it is left to the student to decide whether or not to inform the parents. The only exception is when the student is placed on social probation or is not allowed to return to school. Should this type of situation arise, the par· ents are notified, but told only that their daughter's status as a student has been jeopardized or revoked. 
During the thirteen years Jack· owski ha~ been at Saint Mary's, no one ha~ been expelled for social mis· conduct. "If a student be<.·omes a danger to others living on campus she would be asked to move out of the dorms but would still be allowed to attend classes. It is only when a student is proven to reject the op· portunity for both personal and aca· demic growth that she is ao;kcd to leave school,"said Jackowski. 
"We try to keep the sanctions in proportion to the violation. 'lbcre's no sense in handing a student a lot of trouble because she was caught doing the wrong thing at the wrong time. We try to respect students rights to live their own lives. It is only when things get out ofhand and become a nuisance to others that disciplinary action is taken." 

Peres seeks aid for Israeli economy 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV, Israel· New Prime Min· ister Shimon Peres yesterday ar­ranged a trip to Washington to seek help from President Reagan in rescu­ing Israel's plummeting economy. 
Peres wa~ to meet Reagan for talks on the economy, Lebanon and chances for reviving frozen peace ef· forts in the Middle Ea~t. said Israeli officials who spoke on condition they not be identified. 
Details of the additional eco· nomic aid Peres would seek were not known, but officials in the Israeli treasury have been discussing asking the United States to write off 51 bil· lion of the natin's $9.6 billion debt. Peres also was likely to ask that next year's aid package of $2.6 billion be delivered in one lump sum at the start of the fiscal year, rather than in installments. 
Officials in Peres' office, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said a Peres· Reagan meeting was scheduled for Oct. 8. The meeting, arranged four days after Peres and his bipartisan government took of­fice, underscored the urgency oflhis nation's economic problems. 
U.S. Ambassador Samuel Lewis told reporters after seeing Peres that the main burden of stopping the economic slide wao; Israel's, not the United States'. 
In a speech Sunday night, Peres said the economy got top priority. "We have to turn first of all to our­selves, control our standard of living, reduce our expenses and make Israel an independent, self-reliant country from an economic point ofview," he said. 
On Sunday he ordered a 9 percent devaluation of the shekel, Israel's currency, to stop a panic run on black markel dollars. 
'lbe devaluation caused little re· action in a nation used to a daily ero­sion ofsalaries by an annual inflation rate headed toward 400 percent and by constant adjustments in the ex· change rate. 
At its first meeting Sunday, Peres' Cabinet · containing members from his Labor Party and the opposition Ukud bloc· decided to cut S I billion from Israel's S20 billion national budget. Finance Minister Yitzhak Modal said a decision on where to make the cuts would be made in a matter ofdays. 
• • • • ' .. # ._ ~ • • • • • • • '' • • • ' • .. ... ·:. .. : .. ·. 

The Observer Tuesday, September 18, 1984-page 4 


The Observer 


SMC abroad programs offer travel and credits 
By SHEILA KANEHANN in Rome arc held on the SMC Rome 
Neu•s Staff Campus. 

Students enrolled in the summer 
Saint Mary's Summer Programs in program in London may take a maxi­Rome and London are ideal for inter­mum of six credits, and travel in­ested Saint Mary's and Notre Dame dudes sites in Ireland, Scotland, students who want the experience England and France. of travt·lling in Europe as well as The program runs from May gaining an appreciation of other 23-June 22, and extra travel time can cultures, according to the programs' be arranged without any increase in originator, Dr. A.R. Black. air travel costs. 
Black, an associate professor of Professors for both programs in­History at Saint Mary's, said the pro­dude Saint Mary's and Notre Dame gram was originally conducted faculty. during the winter break between Beth Steber, a junior, was enrolled semesters. It has since grown, and in the London Program this summer. now takes place during the summer After taking classes in photography months. and business, she said the program is 
Combining travel and course "well organized, and there is always 
work for college credit, the program something to do." 

is an excellent opportunity for stu­Gilbert Gallus, also enrolled in the 
dl·nts to live in Europe and hear London Program, took a class in so­
tours and lectures first hand, Black cial problems in a cross cultural con­
said. text. He said his experience in 
The Rome Program includes Ireland gave him an opportunity to 
travel through France, Germany and "get beneath the surface oftourism" 
Switzerland. Dr. Portia Spanu, direc­and speak to people in their own set­
tor of the Saint Mary's College Rome ting. 

Program, organizes tours for stu­An informational meeting for next 
dents studying in Rome for the sum­year's summer programs is planned 
mer. A two week stay there includes for October 3 at 7 p.m. in 232 
all major places of interest. Classes Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. 


New library copiers bring about price hike 
By MARC A. ANTONETTI copy. The new copiers also have bet­
News staff ter prints, a full time maintanence 
program, and can enlarge and 
Covering the cost of new copy reduce. According to the circulation 
machines was the reason given for 
the five cent price hike in making a 

department. students have generally copy at Memorial Library this year, 
been pleased with the new system. according to library Circulation. 
To get one of the new credit cards, Making a copy previously cost five 
students can go to circulation on the cents. 
first floor of the library. 'Ibc new machines feature a credit card system. For example, a Students can still make copies for s; credit card can be used 70 times five cents, however, on the copier for an average cost of 7.4 cents per on the first floor of LaFortune. 



~ * •
ic A very Happy 21st Birthday to that • ~ little girl from Canton, Illinois: ~ 
~ 
. 

~ Carol Pratten* ~ 
~ 
. 

~* • 
~ You finally made it! I hope you have • ~ a wonderful day!! * • 
• -M.J.• 

.. 
~ 
,1 
1 
Geraldine Ferraro during the National Italian American Foundation Dinner in Washington Sat­
urday night. 

Registration drive starts tomorrow 
voter registration blitz on campus.
By BUD LUEPKE 
The group is conducting the drive in 
StaffReporter 
cooperation with College Republicans and the YoungIf you haven't registered and plan 
Democrats, who will provide the 
to vote in the Nov. 6 election, you 
volunteers necessary for the drive. 
will have the opportunity tomorrow Bill Krais, head of the Student and Thursday of this week. Lobby, said, "We will offer students The Student Lobby, a branch of the opportunity to register regard­
Student Government, is planning a less of their political affiliation." 
SENIORS 

who have not yet signed upfor Senior Portraits may do so this week by calling the DOME office 
239-7524 

evenings between 7 and 11. 
BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours· Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source Join Michiana's 1st Team ~Bank 
for unsurpassed banking service! Memoer F.D.I.C. 
The goal of the drive is to register as many students as possible. A Col­lege Republican student said, "We would like to have everyone regis­ter, but realistically we're shooting for about 200 people." He added that many students don't register by the deadline and render themselves ineligible. The registration deadline for the Nov. 6 election Is Wednes­day, Sept. 26. 
'Ibe Student Lobby reminds stu­dents who are non-Indiana residents to not ltesitate registering in Indiana. As four-year residents of Notre Dame, students may register as resi­dents and participate in local elec­tions. 
Those students who have registered In their home state, the Student Lobby will offer absentee ballot information at registration booths located in the dining halls on Wednesday and Thursday of this week. 

·-----------------------------­
Junior Parents' Weekend Chairman Applications 
Available September 18-21st 
in the Student Activities 
Office. Applications due 
Friday, September 21. 
Interviews will be held on 
Tuesday,.September 25th. 
Apply now! 
--------~-­

r 
r 
~i~~~_()__i__ll__t_________________ __pa-ge_6
ru_es-da-y,_se-pt-em-be_r_18_,1_98_4 
The 'New Nationalism' that's blinding America 
Reaganites around the country have become fond oftelling us that Americans once
r 
again take pride in their country. The implica­
r 
tion, of course, is that President Reagan is re­
r 
sponsible for the restoration of American
r 
pride presumably lost during the Carter­
r 
Mondale Administration. Allusions to the 
,r 
Iranian hostage crisis and suggestions of So­viet dominance are contrasted with the vic­
r 
~  tory  in  Grenada  and  aggressive  
r  
r  John Neblo  

outside, looking in 
anti-communism in Central America; the shame of international impotence contrasted with the pride of militaristic virility. 
This new-found pride in America, however, transcends mere election-year rhetoric. One needed only to watch the two week orgy of flag waving that masqueraded as the Olympic Games to see that a nationalistic fervor has indeed swept this country. Perhaps even more telling are the movies coming out of Hollywood in recent months. The industry that makes its millions by knowing what Americans want to see, has been giving us large doses ofstrident nationalism in the form ofmovies like Uncommon Valour,Red Dawn, andCall to Glory. Americans are enthusiastic­ally responding to the feeling that America is winning the pennant race of international politics; that we are once again the greatest nation on earth. 
But before we pop the champagne corks in celebration and sweep Reagan into another four-year term, some consideration should be given to the nature of this neonationalistic phenomenon. Just what are we Americans so proud of? 
Have we cured our social, moral, or eco• nomic ills? Not by a long shot. Unemployment remains unacceptably high, race and sex dis­crimination continue to plague society, crime rates have never been worse, and our cities are in decay. Yet despite these problems, or, 
more accurately, because of them, Americans 
have found something to celebrate: the joy of 
displaced aggression. It's as if a frustrated 
America, unable to cope with its problems, 
suddenly seized upon the reality that it could 
still beat the hell out ofeveryone else and took 
pride. 
In defeating China and Japan, the men's gymnastics team not only won a gold medal, they vindicated an America humiliated by Datsun, Toyota, and Honda. The swimming team salved the pride wounded by West Ger­man steel and Saudi Arabian oil. The gold medals in track and field repaid the countless denunciations suffered on the United Nations floor. Lest you think I exaggerate, consider the joy that swept this country after beating the Russian hockey team in 1980. 
InUncommon Valour Gene Hackman visits death and destruction on countless Viet­namese in revenge for the humiliation America suffered in that war. Red Dawn sym­bolically punishes the Russians and Cubans for the hundreds of indignities America has suffered at their hands in the last 20 years. EvenCall to Glory recalls the days when Ken­nedy and Kruschev "went eye-ball to eye-ball, and Kruschev blinked first." 
The pride we see sweeping this country is not the pride of baseball hot dogs, and apple pie, but rather of a dangerous and coun­terproductive nature. It seeks to avoid ques­tions ofAmerican inadequacy through the use of foreign whipping boys, thereby deflecting potentially constructive criticism. 
Pride in one's country can be a very good thing, but it must never become an influential agent in the policy making process. Pride and prudence are mutually exclusive in the world of international politics, a truth we should consider carefully in this election year. Nor can we as individuals allow this "call to glory" blind us to the far more important call to justice and equity, both internationally and at home. 
john Neblo is a senior economics major in the College ofArts & Letters atNotre Dame. 
Capital Punishment makes no sense at all 
I am alw.ays shocked when I hear rational people defending capital punishment. Usually, such a postulate is the result of an overly emotional assessment ofthe merits and demerits of the death penalty. Admittedly, one's initial reaction to the news that a cri­minal convicted of a capital crime ten years ago is now roaming the streets due to a loophole in our society's criminal justice ap­paratus is one of resentment and anger, and, 
Tony Lanza 
guest column 
consequently, one which might lead to a fa­vorable opinion of capital punishment. This initial emotional reaction, however, should not supersede the logical conclusion which necessarily surfaces as the result of a little prudence. 
The entire capital punishment proponent's argument hinges on the premise that the taking of a human being's life -the most valuable thing anyone possesses -is the most inhumane, unnacceptably disasterous crime one person can commit. (This, ofcourse, con­tingent on the murder being intentional and not performed in the act ofself-defense.) With this premise I could not aJUee more. 
However, when this argument is extended to propose that this very process -the inteq­tional, malicious, non-self defending murder ofa human being-be legalized and sanctioned by the federal government and all fifty of its state polities, I find myself bewildered by the hypocrisy and theoretical fallacies which are so intrinsic in the extended supposition. 
It would appear to me that the capital punishment proponent must embrace one of the following opinions: A) The taking of a human life (under the previously described conditions) is the most disasterous and unac­ceptable occurrence that can take place and should consequently be permitted under no circumstances; B) The taking ofa human life is not so bad and it would therefore be a mistake to submit the criminal in a capital case to death for such an offense. However. to claim that murder is both a grotesquely inhumane act and that murder should be accepted by all Americans and American institutions alike as an acceptable answer to unlawfulness is an ob­vious contradiction in terms. I believe the American public, and certainly the student body of Notre Dame, is more than logical enough to understand this much. 
Tony Lanza is a sophomore in the College ofArts & Letters majoring in economics and political science. 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you  
an  opportunity  to  respond  to  tbe  
columns, articles and illustrations  
printed tbis newspaper, but tbrougb  
P. 0. BtJx Q and guest coluuans you  
can  address iss_ues wbicb bar;e not  
been raised to your satisfaction in  
,..  tbis  newspaper.  Viewpoint  
r  
,..  

encourages all ofits readers to fully expore and voice tbeir opinions. Simply send your letter toP. 0. Box Q or {ielietJer it to our office. Letters should be no lonxer tban 150 words in length and guest columns should notexceed 600 words. All works must be signed. 

Our moral obligation to feed the hungry 
Almost 20 years ago, Senator Robert Ken­nedy addressed Congress on the topic of foreign aid: 'I believe, that foreign aid is not a 'giveaway'; rather that it is both a moral obliga­tion to fellow human beings and a sound and necessary investment in the future." Unfor­tunately, the rich nations of the world have not taken this obligation to the world's poor and destitute nations seriously. The World Bank estimates that 30 children die each min­ute from starvation. This means that 900 children will die quite painfully during our typical half hour lunch break today. 
Indeed, the world in which we live is one of glaring inequality and unfairness. While we in the rich world pursue our material desires, the people of the poor world pass each day in 
Paul Komyatte 
free speech 
a miserable search for food and the quest for survival itself. According to World Bank fig­ures, over 460 million people are currently starving to death. Half of these are children under the age offive. The situation -drastic as it is now-is only destined to get much worse. The World Bank projects by the year 2000, 750 million people will live in absolute poverty, "barely surviving on the margin of life." 

The world is approaching the point where entire nations are becoming nothing more than modern-day death camps in which people are born into a teeming mass of humanity only to suffer deaths from starvation at painfully young ages. 
Bishop Thomas Gumbleton has written that "T_oday's holocaust from world hunger sur­passes...the horror of the World War II holocaust of Nazi Germany." In spite of this desperate situation, the political will to sus­tain increasing amounts of food-aid to devel­oping countries appears to have died out with the economic crises of the mid-1970s. 
At the very point when poor nations needed food-aid the most because of popula­tion surges and declining food outputs, the rich world decided that it was no longer politically feasible or desireable to continue increasing food-aid. International organiza­tions fervently denounce current food aid levels as being too inadequate to avert a tragic hunger crisis. 
What then, or our moral obligation to the world's hunger victims? One need not think too hard to realize that each of us could have been born into a far different situation than we were. 
Certainly, milliorrs of African children should not b~ condemned· to a short and miserable life of starvation simply because they were born into a distitute continent in­stead ofLiverpool or Manhattan. The idea that we in the rich world have a right to squander away a disproportionate amount of the world's resources simply because we were born into a more priveleged part of the globe sparks ofbigotry and narcissism. 

When put into a Christian perspective, our moral obligation to the world's poor becomes clear. Pope Paul made an urgent plea in his 1967 Encyclical that "the peoples in hunger are making a dramatic appeal to the peoples blessed with abundance" and that "the super­fluous wealth of rich countries should be placed at the service of poor nations." Saint Ambrose wrote that "the world is given to all, and not only to the rich." For him, giving food­aid to the hungry would not be a gift, but simply a 'handing over to him what is his." Our own country was founded upon the bold prin­ciple that all men are created equal; our equals in the third world have as much of a right not to starve as we do. 
Perhaps the most useful way of putting the world hunger crisis in perspective is looking at just how tough it would be to solve it. Most surveys ofthe situation conclude that alleviat­ing starvation would not be all that monumen­tal ofa task. President Carter's Commission on World Hunger concluded that "the issue of ending world hunger comes down to a ques­tion ofpolitical choice...ifthe appropriate po­litical choices are made, the world can overcome the worst aspects of hunger and malnutrition by the year 2000." The rich world is fully capable of spending a few percentage points less each year on military matters and putting the resources to use in helping our fellow human beings in need. 
In the end, maybe more ofan appeal to self­interest would generate more positive action. The late President Boumedienne of Algeria warned in 1977 that "no quantity of atomic bombs could stem the tide of billions...who will someday leave the poor southern part ot the world to enter into the relatively accessi­ble spaces of the rich northern hemisphere looking for survival." Just like Lincoln said in the election of 1860 that "this nation cannot exist half-slave and half-free," the world cer­tainly cannot last half-poor and and half-rich and prospering forever. It is about time that the wealthy nations seriously reconsider their moral obligation to the world's suffering mil­lions. The world belongs to all ofus. Too many millions have died for too long for us to blindly sit back and let the tragic crisis con­tinue to worsen. 
Paul Komyatte is a junior tn the College of Arts & Letters at Notre Dame. 

---------------~---~ -~­
......_:....:;.~P-Oint Tuesday, September 18, 1984-page 7 
Improve social life through coed dorms 
Social life at Notre Dame. A contradiction in young men and women living in the same Coed dorms would foster the better under­That's the response you'll get from a building? Other reputable Catholic institu­standing between men and women that this number of students. Now that Big tions have done it (e.g. Georgetown, Boston campus lacks today. As it stands now, outside has banned from campus large parties College, Marquette). of the classroom, the usual encounter in­which alcohol is served, asearch for alterna-volves a social situation among anxious
Some alumni ofdays gone by must certainly 
people attempting to make a good impression.
perceive the presence of females at Notre 
A male walking down the hallway of a wo­
Dame with a bit of envy: "Did I hear you right 
LaFortune are in the works. Renovate men's dorm elicits stares as ifhe were an alien 
son, there are girls on campus now? And you 
hundred years old! invader. A woman in a male dorm can expect a 
can visit each other in your rooms? What's all 
lot ofheads poking out ofdoorways at the first
this talk about no social life? Now you want
Brian McKeon sound ofa female voice. 
coed dorms? Listen, instead I'll build you a new indoor basketball facility to replace It all seems a bit unnatural to me. Living in Stepan Center." the same building would promote real
reflecting 
friendships that would break down many of 
Unfortunately, that will not solve anything. 
the currently existing barriers. It would en­Will il become the student center that most The relationship between the sexes here at courage people to get to know each other not everyone agrees this university needs? We can ND seems adversarial, and at times, even an­just as objects ofdesire, but as human beings.
only hope, but doubt.~ about the success of tagonistic. You've heard the familiar com­this plan linger. plaints. Girls, the guys say, are either too fat, I do not mean to suggest that the whole 
So what can be done to salvage some sort of too smart, or too competitive. Men, the oppo­campus ought to go coed. Single-sex dorms social life? Or at least to create a more realistic site sex points out, care only about sports, should be maintained for those who prefer to and livable atmosphere? I offer a very affor­beer, or are just plain socially inept. Both live in them. dable suggestion: coed dorms. Why not coed groups run around in single-sex packs, rarely The Tower Quad would be a great place to 
dorms? Is it a~ainst Catholic doctrine to have integrating the herd. experiment with coed living. Both the towers and the Pasquerillas have distinct divisions by section; one side could be male, the other female. As an added benefit, the University could admit more women, which it now claims it cannot do for lack of housing (New dorms are probably out of the question). At present, admission for females is more com­petitive than for males, a setup that reeks of discrimination, and allows males with inferior credentials to be accepted. 
When will the University step into modern times and consider coed dorms? It's hard to say, but at the very least probably not in this decade. Afeeble attempt two years ago to ex­periment with the idea fell through. If the board of trustees is truly concerned avout the quality of student life, this is a worthwhile step. Unfortunately, the continual quest to be "the greatest Catholic institution in America" may squelch any hopes of true coeducation. 
Brian McKeon is a seniorgovernment major in the College ofArts& Letters atNotreDame. 
I P.O.BoxQ 
directly. Nonetheless, they all affect these stu­First, I want it to be known that I'm not pro­
Healy's thoughts lead 
dents. For these reasons they deserve choice. I am a Catholic and find the senseless representation. waste oflife in any form abhorrablc, but there Regarding our spending policies, each year is another issue as well. 
in dangerous directions 
the H.P.C. is one of the many student govern­The issue is judging another individual. Dear Editor: men! organizations that receive money jesus plainly says in Luke 6:37 "Do not judge, 
I found Bill Healy's column in defense of through the University. This year we received and you will not be judged. Do not condemn, Reagan's record disturbing, in particular his Sl8,000. How do we spend it? 5300 cover and you will not be condemned." It seems to point: "not one inch of soil has been lost to printing and copying costs. The remaining me that both Quinlan and Julka have con­communism under his (Reagan's) administra­517,700 is given out among the halls. Look at demned Cuomo and his religion, yet are tion." lltis takes one back to the panic in the the sofa in your 24-hr. lounge. Odds are it was either of them without hypocrisy? And by State Department after Mao won the Chinese purchased with H.P.C. funds. Look at your whose eyes are they judging? No one under­
civil war in 1948. trophy case, your party room furniture, the stanas another person's innermost feelings 
Who were we to say that we had "lost" ping-pong table, V.C.R., T.V., or football table. and thus cannot understand that which affects China? Did we ever own it? Was China neces­More than likely these were all, either in their reasoning. I'm sure that Cuomo's deci­sarily worse off, or more of a threat to the whole or in part, purchased with H.P.C. funds. sion on abortion did not come easy to him, but United States? lltese questions were over­The H.P.C. could use its money as the letter he must have had his reasons, good or bad, for looked at the time. suggested to attract "The Boss or Elvis Cos­it. 
Ht·aly seems to accept the old idea that tello," but we have other priorities. H.P.C. IfQuinlan andjulka want to judge Cuomo's communism is a monolithic movement, di­serves the halls, and in the process manyofits reason, then the Catholicism they profess is rected from Moscow, and inherently evil. This policies, actions, and yes, votes affect the not the Catholicism that I have learned. kind of thinking led to our disastrous war in whole student body. K. C. Culum Vietnam and threatens us with a similar war in Cavanaugh Hall 
Chris Tayback

Central America. 
1984-85 Chairman 

Killing threatens 
Some of our presidents have shown more HallPresidents' Council wisdom. Nixon and Carter bargained with the Soviet.~ in SALT talk.~. Nixon went to speak 
society's moral fabric 
with Mao, and Carter later recognized the People's Republic ofChina. But Reagan insists Thank God Faust is 
Dear Editor: 
on st·cing Russia as the source of all evil, and Robert Phillips, in his letter headlined: "Killhis single-minded insistence on military supe­not a band director the Killers," writes "It takes courage for a manriority (not parity) has led to deep rifts with to admit, in a Catholic university, that he sup­our NATO allies, an escalation of the arms DearEditor: ports the killing of others..." I must say, Mr.
race, and a military budget that bankrupts us. 
Congratulations are in order to the Fighting Phillips, that mechanistic, dehumanizedIs that the job that Healy wants us to finish? 
Irish band for another outstanding perfor­people like you threaten the fabric of moral Ronald Berg mance in the Hoosier Dome. society. How dare you suggest that a human There is no question that, in recent years, being (even a murderer) be subjected to such Notre Dame band members have consistently treatment as having his hands cut off, eyesHPC funds benefit demonstrated the "most" creativity, plucked out, and body left as food for "fanciest" footwork, and "best" execution on vultures? Do you subscribe to the Gordon the football field. Keep up the great work, Liddy newsletter? Your views arc very much
the resident halls 
band! on par with his. Personally speaking, I get down on my
Dear Editor: 
knees every night and thank God that Gerry A murderer is a human being who has I am writing in response to a letter pub­Faust is not the band director. Can you imag­sinned. Imagine if Christ, instead of dying for lished in last Wednesday's Observer. The let­ine a field cluttered with fumbled instruments us, had torn out our eyes. The thought is hor­ter questioned both the value of the Hall and the Fight song played off key? rible. Yet you suggest we do this to our fellow Presidents' Council a.~ a voting body and the But then, who knows? Maybe Gerry would man...without a trial?! 
wisdom ofits spending policies. Last week the initiate a whole new tradition. just think: "The I begin to wonder if people like you mightH.P. C. voted to extend equal voting rights to Fighting Irish All-Kazoo Band." support the Salvadorian death squads, or the their off-campus representative. This wa.o; a Michael P. Slott Nazi death camps. After all, you do admire a significanl act. Among the issues on which the ND Class of'72 man who "supports the killing of others." I H.P.C. ha.o; voted in the past year arc their en­guess some people hate murder so much, theydorsement of F.I..O.C., the "dollar party pro­will KILL anyone who commits it.
Don't judge and you
posal" (charging females one dollar to enter parties at males halls, and visa-versa), the tem­I pray for people like Robert Phillips. And l 
won't be judged
porary opening of female halls' laundry hope to God that they never hold public of­facilities to men on a rotating schedule, the fice.
proposed lottery system in the event of such, DearEditor: the rt·-organization of Student Union and of I'm writing in response to the attacks on course, the ensuing raising of the student ac­Governor Cuomo by Chris Julka and Michael tivity fee by $';.Some ofthese issues pertain to Quinlan which appeared in the Sept. 13, 1984 Michael Elliott 
Dillon Hall

off-campus students directly, others in-edition ofThe Observer. 
Clearing the air of Varga's decadent view 
DearEditor: 
In response to Michael Varga's Tuesday at­
tack of the policies of President Reagan's ad­
ministration in "Reagan's Wrongs", I am once 
again compelled to rid the air of the foul 
stench ofa decadent political philosophy. 
Mr. Varga points out the fact that the U.S. is 
staggering under, "a budget deficit whose 
down payment might be paid off by 1989," 
What irks me is that he Is implying that the 
deficit suddenly "sprung up" over night as the 
result of some errant policy of Reagan's. The 
fact of the matter is that the deficit is some­
thing that the U.S. will have to live with. Even 
though it has jumped since President Reagan 
took office, it has also done so under every 
president since the early 1890's, when It was 
last balanced. It is a problem, yes, but one that 
can be alleviated under strong and effective 
leadership. 
On the subject of economics, Varga keeps referring to the first three years of the 1980's. Yes, the country's economy declined (and I say this in the past tense) during the first two years of the Reagan presidency. It is correct that in 1982, in the midst ofthe recession, the poverty rate was higher that the previous years, but this is the end of 1984 and inflation, interest rates, and unemployment are lower than they have been in years. 
On the subject ofmilitary spending, the Re­publican military budget, if the records are checked, is only slightly over former Presi­dent Carter's proposed budget in 1980. Also, anyone who watches "60 Minutes" knows that the spending of exorbitant amounts of money for simple tools is nothing new in the military, but under the Reagan administration there has heen a crackdown on it. 
Lastly, there is the tradgedy in Lebanon. There is no disagreement that it was a terrible loss of life, but also granted was the fact that the Marines volunteered for a job they knew was dangerous. As a Third-class.mid'ihipman in Naval ROTC, I too will face in the future the prospect of foreign aggression and yes, even for a misguided Democrat like you, I am will­ing to put my life on the line to keep the gasoline flowing into your car, your stereo running, and to protect your right to express your own opinions. And, if military aggression should breakout, don't you dare use the gasoline in your car that I might die for to drive to Canada. 
Evan Farley Sophomore 

The Observer 
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspape1 publiShed by lhe students of the Uruvers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary"s College. It does not necessanly reflect ttle pol1c1es of the adm1n1strat10n of e1ther mstiiUIIOn~ The news IS reported as <Jccuratcly and as ob1eCt1vely as poSSible. Uns1gned ed1tor1als represent the op1n1on ol a matOrlty of the Ed1tonal Board Commentar1es. letters and the lns1de Column prt~sent the v1ews of then authors Column space 1S available to all members of the cummun1ty. and the free expressiOn of varymg op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraqed 
Editorial Board 
Ed1to1 m~Ch1el Manag1ng Ed1tor Execut1ve Ed1tor. News Ed1tor News Ed1tor Samt Mary·s Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor. V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor Features Ed1tor Photo Ed1tor 
Bob Vonderheide Mark Worscheh . Margaret Fosmoe Sarah Hamilton Dan McCullough . Anne Monastyrsk1 Michael Sullivan . Dave Grote Mary Healy . Pete Laches 

Department Managers 
Busmess Manager  . Dave Ta1clet  
Controller .  Manpat Horne  
Adverttsmg Manager  .. Anne Culligan  
Circulation Managet  .. Jeff O'Neill  
Systems Manager  Kevin Williams  

Founded November 3, 1966 
-

·­
Sports Briefs 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Monday through Friday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Obseroer office on the third floor of Lafortune. Briefs must be written clearly. 
An ultimate frisbee club is now being formed. The schedule will include weekend fall practices and spring games against Purdue, Ohio State, Michigan, and others. If interested, call Lance or Gerry at 1 588. -Tbe Obseroer 
Colorado football tickets are stm available at 
gate 10 of the ACC. The tickets are $16 each. -Tbe Obseroer 
The SMC swim team will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Regina Hall lobby. All interested swimmers are encouraged to attend. If you have any questions, call Dan Flynn at 283-3852.-Tbe Obseroer 
The ND I SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting 
today at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. -Tbe Observer 
The men's volleyball club will hold tryouts 
today and tomorrow the ACC Pit at 7 p.m. All interested may tryout. 
-Tbe Obseroer 
Art Lambert, head coach of the Notre Dame volleyball team, will be the featured guest tonight on Speaking of Sports at 10 
p.m. on WVFI AM 64. To ask a question or voice your opinion, call 239-6400.-Tbe Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
DiBo 
continuedfrom page 12 
DiBernardo will see a great deal 
playing time the remainder of 
season. 
Watching Notre Dame play second half of the Michigan game, it appears that the defense found itself. Both the offense defense played an emotional of football that Irish fans have seen in some time. 

"We believe in ourselves", says DiBernardo. 
Hopefully the last thirty minutes of last weeks game was the push the Irish needed to get back on top. 
Th<' Ohserr•er Notre: Dame oftkc:. loeatnl on tht· third floor of LaFortune: Studt·nt Cc:ntc:r. anTpts dassific:d ad\'c:rti~ing from<) a.m. until -• p 111.. Monday through Friday. The Ohserr•er Saint Mary·~ office:. loeatc:d on the: third floor of Haggar College Centt'r. accepts clas~itkd~ from I2:50p.m. until -~p.m .. !\<Jon­day though Friday. Dc:adline t<>r n<:xt-day da"itkds is 5 p.m. All da~sitkds muM he prepaid, eith<:r in person or h\' mail.< :hargc: is I 0 <.Tnt~ pn tl\'l' eharae­
Classifieds 
tl'rs cr day. 
lor sale; ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK­Is anybody going to Texas for mid­Organizational meeting of ND/SMC Nu· HOLY COW! Cub Fans HQ John 1042 AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL semester break? I need a ride CALL SAM dear Freeze Campaign Tues.. 9/18 on Marty1043 
t 
1st floor of Badin. Call Bath at 2720 for info. I'm screaming, but you probably can't 
NOTICES WANTED 
KIM AT 291-2957 4665 
1 ·NeE'D__ ii...G'ii"rliCro--·ci:iloR'iioo. 
hear me. 

for sale: ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK­
MIAMI, AIR FORCE, AND SO. HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND 
AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL
t 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? SOPHMORES' Interested in becoming CAROLINA, PLUS 7 USC TIX. IF YOU TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT Domers-I'm coming back to haunt you. Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar· CAN HELP ME, CALL2n-1306. AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIEKIM AT 291-2957 
Tricis 

venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT ................................................................ HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-NEEDED... 2 tickets for Penn State game. FOR SALE: 2 COLORADO G.A TIX TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT DEAR CATHY, A VERY HAPPY 21at ROTC Building. (239-6264) 6264) Call Shannon -284-4164 (GOOD SEATS) 234-4706 CALL AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE 
BIRTHDAY! LOVE, GRANDPA. ANN EVENINGS Howard Hall'• 
···································--········ 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? HELP WANTED TIPPECANOE PLACE Hat and Tle P..ty CATHY, 21at
DEAREST "HAPPY

NEED PENN STATE TJX--2 GA'S AND 3 
Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­RESTAURANT SEEKING PART TIME Need 3 Colorado Tix-GA's Friday Night BIRTHDAY" HOPE YOU HAVE A MAR­
STUDENT.CALL ROBIN AT 234-7319. 
venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob KITCHEN HELP. PREP. OF SALADS Call Kathy 3781 American Legion Poat 303 
VELOUS DAY, lilY LOVE AND Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the PASTRIES ETC. APPLY IN PERSON Be there. 
THOUGHTS ARE WITH YOU. LOVE, ROTC Building. (239-6264) 620 W. WASH. ALAN MARTUNEAC NEED TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL JOHN HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND 
1110111 

.......................... EXEC. CHEF 1023 HEY. I NEED PENN STATE TIX. TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 PLEASE? I'LL BE YOUR FRIEND. CALL AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE 
HAVING PROBLEMS SPEAKING IN WANTED; FULL-TIME BABYSITIER AT KATHY SMC4344 HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND 
SOUTH CAROLINA sOUTH PUBLIC? The N.D. Toastmaster's Club TYPING SERVICE MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT
CAROLINA SOUTH CAROLINA can h elp' Informational meeting Wed. 
2n-6045 OCC. 4 YR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORT A· Will trade 2 GA Colorado lor 2 Miami. Call AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE 
SOUTH CAROLINA lily brother Ia flying Sapt. 19 at 6:30p.m. in223 Hayes-Healy.
PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE TION TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA. 284·5085
In from the g,...t alllte of lillllne and I 
SALARIED. REFERENCES. AFTER In Iran a Man Can Bam on the Hand of a 
,_1 or 2 Genenol Admlulon or Stu· 
ARTS & LETTERS BUSINESS SOCI­
6PM CALL; 289-9193. Need 2 Miami Tickets desperately. Call Ram with a Ham 
................................................................ dent tlckela for the South C.rolll\8 ETY: Informational (FIRSn Meeting.
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 284·5085 But Can a RamJamaMan in a Can of
EARN EXTRA INCOME. PICK YOUR game. If you can IICCOmocs.te p'-H Open to all. Wednesday. Sept. 19. 7:00to
................................................................ Spam?
HOURS, DAYS AND PLACES TO conlllct lillltt at 4013 . 7:30. Am 122 Hayes Healy. 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR Help!! Need 1 Miami Tid<et-my sister is 
WORK. EASY PLAN. WRITE JOE·ND.
$44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­coming from Florida for the game. Please Larry Burke
51625 CHESTNUT ROAD, GRANGER, HELP!!! NEED 2 STUD. TIX OR GA FOR Theron& Ed
IIIENT?GET call Jenny 284-4366 OhMy
IN46530. COLORADO. WILL TRADE FOR PENN. Next away game. Your hotel room this ST. STUD. OR FOR S.C. STUD. KEVIN time. And let's start a little earlier' 
NEED 20 PEOPLE FOR WOOD MFG. NEEOED 2 MIAMI GA'S $$$ call Mary
2n-3954_

NEED RIDE TO lA. CITY FRI. SEPT 28 -Suzanne
CO.. OPERATORS & ASSEMBLERS. 2n-8598 The tradition contlnuM...
................................... ..........
WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL STEVE 
WEEKDAYS 4:00 • 8:30. $4.00 P/HR. Howard Hall's Hat and Tie Party is back. 
I NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL BRIAN 3677.
AT2647
CONTACT WAYNE MILLER. DAYTON Wanted: I need three (3) GA tickets to the It's this Friday night at American Legion 
Should I stay or should I go now?

CONTINENTAL CORP. 52275 US 31 N. Colorado game. If you are interested in Post 303. Grab your chapeau and
NEED 2 G.A. & 3 STUD'S TIX FOR S.C. 
need 2 air force G.A.s need 2 air force If I go there will be trouble,
2n-o111 selling me some lor big bucks. call ROD at crsvate and BE THERE! 
G.A.s call steve in 419 St. Edward's hall, GAME CALL PAUL 2834 If I stay it will be double ... 
1625. HELP TO SEND BOOKS TO ORCHARD 2742 HELP!!!!Rich brother coming to Col.
Will trade 2 Penn Stale and 2 Air Force 
LAKE SCHOOLS (by Detroit). MAY NEEDED 2 sets of 2 or 4 GA's lor MIAMI game. Need 2 student or GA tickets
TRAVEL ENTHUSIAST GA'S lor 2 MIAMI GA'S call Roger at 3207 STAY STAY STAY STAY STAY STAY
NEEDED!!!

YOUR FOOTBALL GUESTS DELIVER game. Very important! Will pay well! Call soon!! If you can help. call Dave at1753 STAY STAYCampus Rap .. to sail Ski Trips to Midwest 
THERE? CALL 233-4425. Dan343B as late as necessary.
& Colorado & Beach Trips to Caribbean. Earn cash & free trips. Call (312) 871· NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET. CALL 1070 today! Or write: Sun & Ski Ad­FELICIA AT 284-4146. need 2 colorado GA's. 3054 O.C. STUDENTSIII Pick up your copy So what if he's my boss! What's a 12 year of the DC ,_latter today In difference?!
ventures, 2256 N. Clark, Chicago, IL We rMIIy ,_tlckatal GA or Student LaFortune.
60814. NEED 1 COLORADO, MIAMI, & AIR tlckata for South Carolll\8 game.
LOST/F~UND I 
FORCE STUD TIC. CALL JOHN 233­
PJ.M cell CATHIE at 4058 or BETH at Boy, are we on a roiL5114NEED XTRA $$ CALL THE YELLOW 2814. 
STAY STAY STAY STAY STAY STAYSUB 272-4453 
STUDENT TICKET needed for STAYLOST LOST Woman's gold watch-­
MIAMI TIX-Need 3 Miami tix: GA's or stu­Just when you thought it was safe SKID Timex. Please if you find it or have found it 
COLORADO game Sapt 22. Call Rob-
dent-preferably GA's. Call Mike 1644. ROW is back!!!! SKID FEVER........ catch 
3305.

cai1Kimat4114. 
it.
FOR SALE 

NEED 1 COLORADO TICKET NICK· LOST: ONE WHITE DRESSER WITH 5 
NEED 3 STUDENT OR G.A. TICKETS Kavin is ad-brain 3564 Oh my! It's that guy Larry Burke! 
TO THE COLORADO GAIIIE. FOR FOR SALE 1977 VW RABBIT 4 DOORDRAWERS. LAST SEEN BEHIND FAR­
VISITING ALUIIJS. CALL OSCAR AT
LEY AFTER CAVANAUGH/FARLEY 
HATCHBACK 5 SPEED GOOD CONDI· BIG $$$ for 1 Miami Student or GA. Call I'm so lonely I could cry.HALL STORAGE. WHO TOOK IT? 
277-39551F YOU HAVE ANY TICKETS TION CALL 272 8714 END Rich at 3200. 
TOSELIL. and I promise always. always. always to RA TOM, YOU'RE SO CUTE, AND drink when I'm supposed to PLEASE RETURN. CALL CATHY 2662. 
.............................................. 
For s.Je COLORADO GA'a. Cell llllke I NEED MIAMI TICKETS (GA AND/OR KIND OF PRISSY, BUT YOU'RE CUP
lm in desperate need of any Miami GA lifter 10 pm. 234-6253 STUDENn. PLEASE CALL4311 HAS BEEN TAKEN, YOU LITTLE SISSY. 
LOST: 3 KEYS AND N.D. KEYCHAJN. 2 
..... 
tid<ets Paul 2318 her name is Mia: but her nickname is Max WATCH CAREFULLY THIS WEEK, FOR ROOM KEYS (335) AND 1 SMALL KEY. 
(after Mary's dead dog)Forule: A RANSOM NOTE, SO YOU CAN GET Lost on 8/31. If found, please call Kavin at 
PLEASE HELP! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR COLORADO. CALL MAUREEN AT 2666 Dave: you're a living doll 
Celery green velvet chair. $50.00 BACK YOUR TROPHY, AND ONCE
3047 PERSONALS
Call 239-5930 or 291-9644 AGAIN GLOAT. BUT ALWAYS REMEM· LOST: NECKLACE THIN GOLD CHAIN BER. AS YOU WALK THROUGH THE
HAVE 4 COLORADO GAs FOR SALE,
WITH DIAMOND PENDANT. IN WO­
PREFER TO TRADE FOR S.C. GAs "ZOO", THAT THE DESERVING Silk -Have a Happy 21st! XO AKC Cocker Spaniel puppiM DRAGONS, WILL ALWAYS GET THEMEN'S LOCKER ROOM AT ROCK. IF 
MIKE3309 9 weeks old. Red female, black & tan .................................... And it takes love over gold BEST OF YOU. TRUST US.
YOU PICKED IT UP PLEASE CALL 
To the girl in Mellons philo at9 who talked male. Good temperment. And mind over matter SINCCERELY. PUFF THE MAGICMELONNI AT 2731 OR BRING IT BY 407 
PARENTS DON'T CARE HOW BAD WE lo me at the end of dass· I m dying to meel Call 239-5930 or 291-9644BADIN. 
ARE, NEED 2 COLORADO TIX. CHRIS To do what you do that you must DRAGON you Call JOHN 1528 -Is the feeling 1072 When the things that you hold mutual?
LOST: Black. pushbutton, collapsible 
Can fall and be shattered So... You think that's something...
umbrella at Mr. D's during Senior dass party thurs. nite. Call 232 -0660 or laave 
STUDENT TICKET PACKAGE lor sale. Will give you two tix for Colorado game if Or run through you fingers like dust. GROIIIYKO THANKS ST. JUDE YOU'VE COME best offer 1301 will meet with 
you can get me two rooms reservations THROUGH ONCE AGAIN on Fri. & Sat, 10/5 & 10/6, for Miami -Dire Strallllat Lost & Found. Hi Mindy! 
C.H.U.D. FOR SALE: Stanley Kaplan MCAT bool<­Onefullweek
game. Call collect 312-n4-8370, ask for TO MY WONDERFUL ROOMATE:To the person who found my STATis­
lets. If interested call Letty at 2156. Before he'll meet with 
RayBolk. HERE'S YOUR AD. WHAT WOULD I DO !!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE lllondale or Reagen! WITHOUT YOU AROUND TO FORCE TICS IN BUSINESS book in rm. 110 Hur­
ley last Thurs., PLEASE return it to me!!! 
FOR SALE: 2 TIX TO NO vs COLORADO CHU.D. Foreign Policy Office 
NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S!!! Call Mike 2n-2822 FEED ME? THANKS FOR EVERY­(Put it this way. it cost $25 (this IS from the GAME. CALL 233-2163 OR 234-5n8. 
3918$$ THING, DEAR. LOVE, THE LIZARD Marc Ramirez --Madder Than Mad In '84 NOW WILL YOU LEAVE (AND TAKEbool<slore!),l only have another$12, and I 
have a lest next Thursday!!!!) I REALLY 
For Sale: 2 Colo. tix. Call Tom 1808. THE BEARS IIIAGIC NUMBER IS 12. 
Have Colo GA's. Good location. Call Uisa YOUR HAIR WITH YOU--I VALUE MYDO NEED THAT BOOK. so PLEASE 
at 272-0805 after 4 pm. · EYESIGHT!) OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Dear KATIE, SHELLEY, and "SWELL 
Need 2 ST TIX COLO Maggie 3899 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE MEL"! GOLLY. aven though the MOON I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO CALL!! (Bill x1305) ·THANKS 
Would whoever has my Russian textbook 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. didn't shine. we still had a SPANKING OHIO VICINITY
YOUNGSTOWN, ORTICKETS good time! Love and Kisses: the BABYand Byrns and Stone Economics textbook 
Have:2 COLORADO GAs. Will trade for 1 THIS WEEKEND. WILL SHARE EX­the STUD.
either put them bad< on the South Dining 
Colorado stud. tic and Cash. Call Jeff at ATIENTION SENIORS KILLER, YUGOSLAV the PENSES. CALL MATI AT 2937. 1049 Available from 9/14 to 9/21 are applies· CALSTUD, TIMMY BEAR. SHARK, AND Needed: 2 So. Carolina GAs; Mark x1154 tions lor SENIOR FORMAL COMMIT· TIGER. Dear Little Blonde-haired Girl, We missed 
Hall bool<shelves or call Mike at 2492? 
LOST GOLD ADD-A-BEAD NECKLACE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 284, Help!! My folks never saw Notre Dame, TEES. Aplications may be picked up at you Friday night. Did you see Mario? 5062 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ but now Notre Dame is coming to my par­either LaFortune or Haggar. They are due ADOPTING A TRANSFER? WE LOVE What's your explanation? Call us at3200. $ $ $ $ $ S $ $ S Deaperately need ents. But they don't have tid<ets to the by 2:00 9/21. IT! SUZ AND SUZ Love, Barrabbas LOST: KEYS, Coal of Arms key ring; 
COLORADO TICKET call JIM 3467 Missouri game. That's where you come .................•.. Room 259; Mark x1154 
THANKS in. Sell me your pair of Missouri tickets. I JUGGLER! John K. You are great! Love, Pebbles DELICIOUS SANDWICHES don't have alot but, whataver I have will be JUGGLER! Fuzzy fever . _catch-it! DELIVERED MO-TH 8pm-11pm FA-SA To whornaver accidentally took a white ' WANT TO MAKE MONEY? yours, if you sell me your Missouri tix. JUGGLER! 8pm-1am CALL THE YELLOW SUB­
Then sail us your Colorado tickets! Bring submissions to 309 O'Shag by Sapt We are desperate and wiN pay well!! 21 It's that guy. 
N.D. cheerlaading uniform from the Badin CALLBARBAT284-4418. Thanks. CHillY! MARINE 272-4453 
laundry Monday morning. I desperately need it! call 2467. Help us! PLEASE !II HELPIIJEII LARRY BURKE Yo Sheila. We gonna go to dinner, Call 283-2083/2084 I need 3 GA's and 2 student tix for the why do we kill people who kill people to 
what? Call me. Ask lor Bob, Larry, Sid, or Oscar Coklr8dogame and I need them now! My show that killing people is wrong? It's something we've all got to do. parents are flying out for the game and will 
si.1C'coi:'i'E'Ei-i.ous·E·is.H'EFiE.A'GA'ii-.i. 
disown me if I don't get them. Help out a ARE YOU FUNNY? !! TAKE A STUDY BREAK AND COME Worda to live by: ............,................................................. . good cause and call Joe at 3296 . The Observer needs you! RELAX! FAST AND IIIISSAD PER· NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S TO BUY -­The Features Department is looking for FORM. WED. SEPT.19th 9pm-HCC Lust will get you nowhere.
FOR RENT 
OR WILL TRADE FOR 2 AIR FORCE humor columlata and certoonlalll. If CHAMELEON ROOM!!! GA'S. CALL JANET AT 4376 Gimme gimme gimme gimme some you are interested. call Mery Healy at 239­Colorado tix. I don't care how many, just 5303 To the two guys from Stamford thai we're for sale; ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK· gimme gimme gimme. Gimme gimme forcing to the Screw Think of it not as a Lord, I am S<H>-o-o tired. SONY'S BEST TAPE, UCX·S $3.50aa AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL gimme some Colorado tix. Gimme 'em Need lour PENN STATE tickets. nightmare but as a dream come true TWO How long can this go on? $30/103681 KIM AT 291-2957 now. Gimme. Call the Alien at 2539. Please call Mary at 1333. GIDDY GIRLS P .S. This ad is on us 


The Observer 
Tuesday, September 18, 1984 -page 9 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college football teams in Tbe A.s
Nebraska remains on Retton signs contract 
~m:lated Press poll, with ftrst-pla<.·c:-votc:-s in paren· theses, this season's records and total poinL~. Point~ hasc:d on 20-19-18-17 ~tc. Notre:" Dame oppon~:nt!'> 
Associated Press C.W. Gaillard, vice president and general manager ofGeneral Mills Big 
top of football poll :1rc.· Jtaltdzed. 
I. Nehra-'lut(37) l·O·O 1.1~ I 
MINNEAPOLIS -Olympic gym-G division, said, "Wheaties isIowa, jumped from 12th to seventh 
2. Cl~:m!lon(lll)) l·O·O 1,08~
A."isoclated Press 
3. 1'cx.,(4) 1·0·0 1,046 
nastics champion Mary Lou Retton honored Mary Lou has become awith 745 points· Iowa fell to 14th­
'Ilte Nebraska Cornhuskers, j8·7 winners over Minnesota, made it two weeks in a row at the top of the Associated Press poll yesterday. 'fltey recdved 37 of 59 first-place votes and I, I 51 of a possible I, 180 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Auburn, tht· preseason No. I team, droppt.·d its opener to Miami and Miami promptly lost to Michigan after attaining the No. I ranking. 
Clemson, idle last weekend, rt·mained in second place with I 5 first·place ballots and I,083 points, 
while Texas defeated Auburn 35-27 and dimhcd from fourth to third with four first·place votes and I,046 points. Michigan, which had been third, lost to Washington 20·11 and skidded to 16th. 
Miami, which was tied with Iowa for fifth place last week, defeated Purdue 28· I 7 and moved into fourth place with one first-place vote and 897 points. Ohio State crushed Washington State 44-0 and vaulted from ninth to fifth with 860 points while Brigham Youn~o~ rose from eighth to sixth with H17 points fol· lowing a j8-15 trouncing ofTulsa. 
l't•nn State. ;1 20-17 winner over 
Longest Walking-On-Hands 
In 1900 Johann Hurlinger ofAustria walked on his hands from 'Yienna to Paris in 55 daily 10-hour stints. covering a distance of 871 miles. 
AT&T long distance wins hands down when It comes to Immediate credit for Incomplete calls and wrong numbers. 
wtnners. 
Longest Bicycle Raee 
The longest one-day "massed start" race is the 551-620 km (J42-385 miles) Bordeaux-Paris even! In 1981. Herman van Springe/ averaged 41186 km/hr (2932 mph) covering 584.5 km (3624 miles) in 13 he 35 min. 18 sec. 
AT&T long distance lets the good times roll for you, too • -with discounts of up to 60% every day. 
Nobody can match AT&T for savings and service: 
• 
40% discounts evenings. 60% discounts nights and weekends. 

• 
Immediate credit for Incomplete calls and wrong numbers. Calls from anywhere to anywhere, anytime. 

• 
24-hour operator assistance. 

• 
Quality that sounds as close as next door. It's a winning combination. Why settle for less? 



-
The more you hear the better we sound."" 

.ATs.T 
~ 
and UCLA slipped from seventh to eighth with 726 points after strug­gling past Long Beach State 23-17. lbe Bruins also received the other two first-place votes. 
Rounding out the Top Ten arc Washington, with 718 points, and Boston College, which also was IOth a week ago. llte Eagles, who were idle over the weekend, received 698 points. 
The second ten consists of Okla­homa, Oklahoma State, Southern Methodist, Iowa, Florida State, Mic­higan, Southern Cal, West Virginia, Auburn and Georgia. 
Last week, it was Auburn, Penn State, Oklahoma State, SMU, Okla­homa, Washington, Pitt, Florida State, Alabama and Southern Cal. Pitt dropped out following a 42-I 0 trim­ming at the hands of Oklahoma while Alabama also lost its second game in a row, bowing to Georgia Tech 16-6, and fell out of the Top Twenty. 
West Virginia, 3-0 after heating Virginia Tech 14-7, moved into the Top Twenty for the first time this season-the Mountaineers are No. 18 -as did Georgia. 1-0, which was idle last weekend. 
4. Miami, Fla. 3·1·0 897 
signed a deal yesterday with part of its long-standing association
5. Ohio Stare-l·ll·ll 860 6. Hrigham Young 3·0·0. 817 
Wheaties cereal, a General Mills offi-with sports champions." 
7. Penn State .J.().(J 745 
cia! announced. She will appear in television com­
8. llCLA(l) l-0·0 726 
Retton, 16, won the gold medal in merciais, be featured on Wheaties
9. Wa"'hin•(lon l·O·O "18 
10. 1\oston (:ollege l·O·O 698 
the women's individual all-around cereal packages and make personal 
I I . <)k.Jahoma HI·O 663 
competition at the 1984 Summer appearances for "The Breakfast of
ll. Oklahoma State l·O·O ~8~ 13. S<Juthern Methodist 1·0·0 ~l2 
Olympics, making her the first Champions." Further details of the 
14. Iowa 1·1·0 ~98 
American female gymnast ever to contract were not disclosed. 
I~. Florida State l·O·O ~(>() 
win an individual Olympic medal. In The first nationally tdevised com­
16. Michigan 1·1·0 ~~l 
17. Soutbern Culifornta 1·0·0 173 
addition to her gold-medal perfor-mercia! featuring Retton will air at 
18. WeM Virginia -~-=-o-o 100 
mance, Retton earned two silver and the end of this month. She will also
19. Auburn O·l·O 94 
lO. (ieorgia 1·0 0 5" 
two bronze medals in team and indi-he on the cover of millions of vidual events. Wheaties packages. 
Buffalo rally short 
Dolphins edge winless Bills 
Associated Press 

ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. -Dan Marino continued his early-season passing wizardry last night, throw­ing three touchdown passes as the Miami Dolphins raced to an 18-point lead then held off a furious Buffalo rally to heat the winless Bills 2I-l 7 Monday night. 
It was a shaky third-straight vic­tory for the unbeaten Dolphins, who seemed on their way to a r~mt when Marino hit his third touchdown pass, a one-yarder to Nat Moore, with I0:27 gone in the third period. 
But it was all Buffalo from then on. 
The Bills followed that touch­down with a 1-yard plunge by Speedy Neal that made it 21-l 0, then closed to 21-l 7 on a 3 7 -yard scoring pass on a fourth down and three sit­uation from Joe Ferguson to Julius Dawkins with 9:20 left in the game. 
It took Don McNeal's recovery of Byron Franklin's fumble on the Dol­phins 31 to end a final threat with just over four minutes left. 
Marino, who increased his season 
NFL Standings 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE East 
East w L T Pet. PF PA 
w L T Pet. PF PA Miami 0 01000 84 41 Dalla.o; l I 0 .667 ~0 ~8 New f.ng.land I u .6<>7 1>6 <>II N.Y.Glant<ii I 0 .667 70 64 N.Y.)<ts l I 0 .1>67 8.\ (>(} St.l.oUI!o 0 .667 94 64 lndlanapoli!o l o .3H 82 78 Philadelphia 0 .3B 63 68 Buffalo 0 ~ u .000 41 79 Washington l 0 .333 "8 lib Central 
Central Pltt:r.llurgh l I 0 .<>67 74 68 Chicago 3 0 01000 70 ll Cincinnati 0 3 0 .000 62 90 D~:troh I 2 (J ..H3 71 7~ Clevdand {) 3 0 ,()()() 31 77 Green Bay I l 0 3H ,\8 60 HouMon 0 3 0 ,()()() 49 90 Mlnnesma 2 0 .3H ~7 81 West Tampa Day l 0 .H3 48 bll LA.IWders 3 0 OI.()(KI 74 41 
West Oenv~:r 2 I () .1>67 44 ~8 
San Francisco 3 0 01.000 97 78 1\;m~a!l City I 0 667 84 71 Atlanta l o .3H 80 Ill San I>kgo I u .1>67 90 ~8 LA. Ram~ 2 0 .333 47 61 Seattl~: I 0 .1>67 8" ~~ New Orleans 2 0 ..\33 M 79 
B·riefs 
continuedfrom page 8 

The skateboard club will hold a meeting this Thursday, September 20 in the Lafortune Little Theater at 8:15p.m. All inembers are urged to attend. For more. information, call Bob Guilday at 277-3877.-The Observer 
The pep rally committee will hold a meeting in the basement of Lafortune tomorrow at 7 p.m. -The Obs£'Yt!£>r 
The ND women's cross country team ran in 
the Hillsdale Invitational last weekend in Hillsdale, Mich. Julia Merkel, Allison Cameron, Elizabeth Vogel, Susan Wanchow and Kathleen Lehman were the top finishers for the Irish. Notre Dame will host the National Catholic Meet this Friday, September 28.-The Observer 
The SMC Athletic Association wm hold an 
organizational meeting tomorrow at the Clubhouse at 6:30p.m. All who are interested are invited to attend.. 1be Obs£'1"f'er 
The SMC tennis team defeated Anderson College, 7-2, and lost to Butler University, 2-7, in season-opening matches last weekend. The Belles will play host to Goshen College today at 3:30 
p.m. on the Angela Courts. -The Observer 
The SMC volleyball teamwon two and tost three in the season-opening Elmhurst College Tournament. 'Ibe Belles heat Eastern Missouri and Central State University and lost to Aurora College, Elmhurst College and Milliken University. tonight, the Belles take on Bethel College at Angela at 6 p.m. -1be Observer 
total to I 0 TD passes in three games, spread the scores around, connect­ing with Mark Duper from I I yards out in the first period; with Mark Clayton for a 12-yard score in the second and to Moore in the hack of the end zone on a third-and-goal play from the one in the third. 
Marino completed 26 of 35 for 296 yards against a Buffalo defense forced hy injury to use Gary Thompson, a second-year man making his first start in the NFL at left cornerback and Donald Wilson, a free-agent rookie making his second start at free safety. 

The Observer 
Team has high hopes 
Golfers look good in Loyola win 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame golf team got off to a quick start in its fall action over the weekend, finishing the Notre Dame Open and beating Loyola in a dual match. 
The Irish soundly defeated Loyola 372-394, relying on very consistent play from their top six players. 
"I was extremely pleased to see the starting six all under 76," said Coach Noel O'Sullivan. "If that isn't consistency and skill, then I don't know what is." 
Junior captain John O'Donovan led the way f()r Notre Dame on Sun­day against Loyola, and was low meadalist for the meet with a one­over-par 72 on Burke Memorial Golf Course. Lon Huffman finished with a 74, while Richard Connelly and Steve Fuhrer carded identical scores of75. John Anthony and Ken Hanlon each had a 76. 
"I believe we have a very talented team, even though we have no seniors," O'Sullivan continued. 
"O'Donovan has been showing ex­ceptional leadership by the way he has been playing, and that helps the sophomores and freshmen." 
Dan Nolan was the top finisher for Loyola, ending up with a 74. 
"The start of the season has been the quickest, and the preparation has been the best in a long time," O'Sullivan stated. "I have my starting six selected and one strong alter­nate. This is the earliest I've been able to pick the team in seven years." 
Freshman John Parker, playing with the second team, had a very solid score of 72. 
The Notre Dame Open was also contested last week. The competi­tion featured 53 Notre Dame stu­dents, of whom 34 completed the 72-hole event. 
Fuhrer had the low score, with a 72-hole total of 294. Defending champion O'Donovan was one stroke back. Connelly, a freshman, had a 298 total for third place, marking the first time a freshman has cracked the top three places. 
The Irish return to action this weekend in Zionsville at the state championships. All colleges in In­diana compete at the GolfClub ofln­diana in this tournament. O'Sullivan terms the course as "one ofthe toug­hest courses in the state." 
The true test of how good the Irish really are will be known after these champoinships. 
The Irish coach was surprised to see how well the younger players did in their first competition of the year. 
O'Sullivan thinks that his team can have a good season ifit continues to play as well as it has done so far in the young season. 
Tuesday, September 18, 1984 -page 10 

Tiger victory clinches tie for top spot in AL East race 
Associated Press Baines and Greg Walker on fly balls, New York took a 7-6 lead in the yielded Coles' soft liner. Left-fielder walk off starter Mike Mason, 2-6, and but Roy Smalley doubled in fifth off reliever Tippy Martinez on Joe Carter fielded it on one bounce Kingman followed with his homer. 
DETROIT -Asolo homer by Lance .Hairston. Ron Kittle's single brought consecutive RBI singles by pinch­and forced out Henderson at second Dwayne Murphy then doubled, Parrish and a grand slam by Lou home Smalley. hitters Toby Harrah and Brian as Perconte scored. went to third on Mike Heath's Whitaker keyed a six-run Detroit The White Sox added three runs Dayett before AI Bumbry's second Seattle reliever Dave Geisel, 1-1, grounder and scored on Almon's sixth as the Tigers roared to a 7-3 in the seventh. After Hairston led off homer opened the sixth. worked 3 2-3 innings for the victory. sacrifice fly. victory over the Milwaukee Brewers with a walk, Baines homered off Baltimore had gone ahead 6-5 in Murphy walked in the eighth and last night, clinching at least a tie for reliever Ed Hodge. Reliever Jack the top of the fifth on Gross' homer scored on Heath's triple.
A's 5, Rangers 3 
the American League East champi­O'Connor walked Julio Cruz with and second grand slam of the year, onship. the bases loaded to score Walker. following Mike Young's leadoff OAKLAND, Calif. -Dave Kingman Another win by the Tigers or loss single, a walk to Cal Ripken and 35th homer of the year, a two-run Royals 10, Angels 1 by the Toronto Blue Jays will give Eddie Murray's single. blow, was part of a tie-breaking
Yankees 12, Orioles 7 

Detroit the title. Baltimore took a 2-0 lead in the three-run sixth inning that ANAHEIM, Calif. -Pat Sheridan, 
The Brewers led 2-1 heading into· first on Ken Singleton's two-run propelled the Oakland A's past the Jorge Orta and Don Slaught belted the Detroit sixth. Parrish started the NEW YORK -Don Baylor's two­single off Phil Niekro. Then New Texas Rangers 5-3 last night. solo home runs while Reggie jack­rally when he homered off Rick run single and Ken Griffey's three­York sent 1 1 batters to the plate in Bill Krueger, 9-10, won his first son's spoiled Bud Black's shutout at­Waits, 2-4. Larry Herndon singled, run homer snapped an eighth-inning chasing starter Bill Swaggerty with game since August 17th. He allowed tempt with his 500th career home went to second on Chet Lemon's' tie as the New York Yankees· five runs, only one earned, in the six hits and two walks pitching into run last night as the Kansas City
t 
grounder and Barbaro Garbey downed Baltimore 12-71ast night. third inning. the ninth inning. He didn't give up a Royals whipped the Angels 10-1 to walked. The defending World Champion hit until Larry Parrish blooped a take sole possession of first place in Waits then walked Darrell Evans Orioles, who lost despite a grand single to lead off the fifth. the American League West. 
Mariners 3, Indians 2 
to load the bases and Jack Lazorko slam by Wayne Gross, were mathe­Bill Caudill got the last three outs Jackson hit the first pitch of the came on for the Brewers. John matically eliminated from the Amer­SEATTLE -Darnell Coles hit a for his 32nd save despite yielding an seventh inning deep into the Grubb, pinch-hitting for Tom ican League East race when the fielder's choice liner to left field in RBI single to George Wright and rightfield seats for his 22nd homer of Brookens, walked to force in Detroit Tigers beat the Milwaukee the 11th inning that drove home walking Marv Foley with the bases the season. He became the 13th Herndon. Whitaker then smashed Brewers 7-3. Jack Perconte with the winning run loaded. player in major league history to his first grand slam. Reliever Jay Howell, 9-4, pitched last night as the Seattle Mariners beat Doubles by Bill Almon and reach the 500-homer milestone. 
The victory went to Tiger rookie 2 2-3 innings for the victory. Ron the Cleveland Indians 3-2. Mickey Tettleton gave the A's a 1-0 Kansas City's victory, coupled Roger Mason, 1-1, making only his Guidry pitched the ninth: Perconte led off the inning with a lead in the fifth, but the Rangers tied with Minnesota's 7-3 loss to the second major league start. He Willie Randolph opened the single and was sacrificed to second it in the sixth when Curtis Wilkerson Chicago White Sox earlier last night, worked six innings, giving up six hits eighth by singling off the glove of by Larry Milbourne. Alvin Davis was singled with one out and scored on boosted the Royals into a one-game and two runs. Aurelio Lopez reliever John Pacella, 0-1. Bobby intentionally walked by Mike Jef­Gary Ward's two-out double. lead over the Twins. Both teams relieved in the seventh. Meacham beat out a bunt, Don Mat­fcoat, 5-2. Steve Farr came in to Joe Morgan led offthe sixth with a have 13 games left. 
In the Detroit first, Whitaker sin­tingly sacrificed and Dave Winfield relieve, and balked Perconte and 
gled and went to third on Alan Tram­walked before Baylor singled. Davis ahead. 
mell's single. Trammell stole second Griffey greeted reliever Tom Un­Farr intentionally walked pinch­
and Whitaker scored when second derwood with a three-run homer. hitter Steve Henderson, then 
baseman Jim Gantner dropped save . coupon • save -coupon -save-coupon-save -coupon -save -coupon -save -coupon 
ARCHITECTURE 
catcherJim Sundberg's throw. The Brewers tied it 1-1 in the 
1o~ 

off on audio and video 
second when Dion James doubled 
0 MAJORS 
and scored on Willie Lozado's single. 
REPAIRS
Cecil Cooper singled in the Mil­
HAVE
c NOT VALID ON ESTIMATE ONLY! 
waukee fifth, stole second and 
&. 
scored on Doug Loman's single to i5 give the Brewers their brief2-1lead. u 
RADIO DISTRIBUTING 
Robin Yount homered in the 
DESIGNS
Authorized Service For: ninth for the Brewers' third run. 

Pioneer-Kenwood -Bose-JVC -Panasonic -Sharp -Sanyo-Marantz Atari -TEAC -RCA-Quasar-Sylvania
White Sox 7, Twins 3 
ON DOMINO'S 
§___ 915 N. Bendix 287-2911 
GOOD THRU 12·31·84 -------­
MINNEAPOUS -Harold Baines belted three home runs as the Chicago White Sox knocked the 
PIZZA. 
Minnesota Twins out offirst place in 
the American League West with a 7­
277-2151 
3 victory last night. 
Baines slammed solo homers in the first and fifth innings and a two­run shot in the seventh. 
Get two free Cokes' with
LaMarr Hoyt, 13-16, surrendered 
Two Free 
any pizza. 
seven hits and walked none in 8 2-3 
One coupon per pizza. 
Cokes®

innings. He left after Randy Bush's 
ground ball struck him in the kg in 
Fast, Free Delivery'" 
the ninth. Ron Reed got the last out. 
Plaza 23 Center 
The White Sox picked up a quick run in the first on Baines' homer. 

HAIRCUTS 
"i-t'd_<, l't'rran~ l.dllt:'

Minnesota tied it in the second. Bush singled, advanced to third on 
(~I H.d 25) 

Tom Brunansky's single and scored 
:\no~~ from Martin's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut on Gary Gaetti's sacrifice fly. But Chicago grabbed a 3-1 lead in 
We are only minutes from campus 
the third when Jerry Hairston 
walked. John Butcher, 12-9, retired 
' f 


']I['4CJt.cllC3l~------------------------------------------Tu.es_d_a_y_,s_e_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_I_s_,_1_9_8_4___
P_a.g.e.I..I 



Berke Breathed 

USS€£... ~ &!/£~{ 5HOT fiF. 
7Ft€ :4· 70.11/W f!U•15 MSil!lY. .. 1lff IICM€ S!lVS!l&£ fNilORSf­MfNT SHOOTS 







The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 35 Tchrs.' org. 60 Trevino and 13 Lopped off 1 "Three men In Majors 21 "-a Rose"
36 Bedouin 
.. 
37 Poem part 61 Hebrew 22 Hillside: Scot. 
5 Pay 38 Proofreader's measure 24 Metric foot 10 Gr. cheese word 62 Unpleasant 27 John -Garner 14 Lariat 39 Chatter expression 28 Islets 
15 Baffle 40 Guinness and 63 Harp relative 29 Successful, as 16 Gemsbok a team 
Waugh 17 Catamaran 41 Madeline and DOWN 30 Young suffix 18 Drummer's Otto 1 Tapis 31 Hashhouse 
attendant sign
42 Scene of 19 Grendel, lor 32 Conduct
"Hamlet" one 2 Sycophant 
33 Spoken3 Errant, as a

20 Fuss 44 Streak 34 Ex-heavyweight
forward pass 

21 Vengeful 45 Sch. deg. champ Max 
4 Wager23 Nurse's 46 Wiseking 5 Sanctuaryinstrument 49 Perfect, as a 6 Select 37 Whips25 Common verb forward pass 7 Bungle 38 " ... in corpore 26 Big wind 54 Ear: comb. form 8 Prefix with " 27 Biblical 55 Contents of 

gram or Iogue 40 Adjectivalreligious pirate's chest 9 Kind of flooring suffixdevotee 56 Inventor Howe 10 He deceives 41 Furnace

32 Ruined, as an 57 Division word apple 58 Old TV friend 11 Hence 43 Babylonian 12 Beginner god34 Coarse cloth 59 Systematize 


44 More relaxed 50 Standard 
46 Arrange 51 Heavy reading 52-Bator 
47 Sportive 
mammal 53 Prong 48 Loop 57 "-Be Seeing 49 Miscellany You" 
Monday's Solution 
Campus 
•3:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "A Systematic Framework for Design and Analysis of Flexible Chemical Processes," Prof. Ignacio Grossman, Dept. of Chemical Engineering, Carnegie Mellon Univer­sity, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs. DePaul, Courtney Courts, ACC. 

•3:30 
-4:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, TSO, First Session, Room 23 CCMB, Available to Public· Free. 

•4:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "Some Like It Hot-Tht• Little Known World of Chili Peppers," Dr. Hardy Eschbaugh, Room 8278 Galvin Life Science Cen­ter. 

•7:00 
p.m. -Foodsales Workshops, Dormitory Foodsales Workshop, NO Health & Safety, Flanner Hall Foodsalcs, Sponsored by ND Health & Safety/NO Student Government. 

•7:00 
p.m.-Meeting, Ground Zero, Center For So­cial Concerns. 

• 
7 & 9:30p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "Coming Home," Engineering Auditorium, $1. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Value ofLiberal Educa­tion," Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Washing­ton Hall, Sponsored by Arts & Letters Student Advisory Council. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Organiztional Meeting, Amnesty In­ternational, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7:30 
& 9:30p.m.-Film, "Casablanca," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Tuesday Night Film Se­ries. 

•8:00 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, "Chile in Crisis," Prof. Foxley, Prof. Cortazar and Isabel Donso, 


C.S.C. Building, Room 124, Sponsored by SOLA, Free. 
•8:00 p.m. -Film & Talk, Heifer Project, Mary Sue Callan, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, Free. 
TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. !O:OOp.m. 

16  M0 A0 S0 H  
22  Family Feud  
16  TheA-Team  
22  E.R.  
22  M0 A*S*H  
16  The Hunter  
34  Child  Sexual  Abuse:  What  Your  
Children Should Know  

34 Vietnam: Television History 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
34 The Constitution: That Delicate Bal· 
ance 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
[W S.A.B. Record Stodre serv1c1ng your mus1c nee s: -topes -albums -tickets in LaFortune Student Center 
Open: 10:00-4:00, Monday-Friday 

~--------------------·----------------------~ 

Second Call ! 
for singers for ~~sweeney Todd" on November 1,2,3 and 4th 
AUDITIONS: Thurs., Sept. 20 
6:30p.m. 
room 221 O'Shag 
ND/SMC Student Players 
~---------------------.,-----~~-----------------­
S~orts 

The O~rvcr/Pete Laches 

Tracey Bennington, shown here in action earlier this season, played well against Illinois State on Saturday, but Notre Dame wentdown to defeat in three straight games. Chuck Ehrman details the match at right. 
Women's Tennis in action 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team is in action against North Star Conference foe DePaul today at 3:30p.m. at the Courtney Ten­nis Center. 
Sharon Petro's squad is coming off a dose victory over Illinois. The match was held on Saturday in Champaign. 
The Irish won the match 5-4, taking four of the singles matches and one ofthe three doubles matches. The Fightin' Illini kept each of the individual sets close, but Notre Dame edged them out for the victory. 
Susie Panther also returned to the team, after being out with an injury. Further details on the the match with Illinois and results from the DePaul contest will be in tomorrow's paper. 
Irish experiment in tourney 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey 
team traveled to Sauk Valley College 
in Michigan this weekend to play 
several games in what was loosely 
dubbed "a tournament." 
The Irish emerged from the 
weekend oftough competition with 
a record of 1-3. Notre Dame lost to 
York of Ontario, 3-1, Ohio Univer­
sity, 1-0, and Central Michigan, 2-0, 
while beating the University of 
Waterloo, 3-2. 
Coach Jill Undenfeld approached the Sauk Valley Weekend Games as a chance for the Notre Dame team to gain valuable experience. 
"I looked at this as an experimen­tal tournament," said the Irish coach. Lindenfield knew that the {­tournament games would not count team," she said. The Notre Dame toward the Notre Dame season coach played as many players at as record, so she substituted freely many different positions as possible during each contest, trying to find for good reason. Lindenfeld hoped the most succesful combination. to find replacements for the Irish's 
"I tried lots of different combina­three injured starters and a second tions to come up with the best t.eam. 
---~---~-~-------------------­
Tuesday, September 18, 1984 -page 12 
Irish volleyball team drops match to Redbirds in three straight games 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team 
wrote another page into the first 
year of the history of the Lambert 
Era onSaturday against Illinois State. 
The match will not be remem­
bered as one of the greatest mo­
ments in the Irish sport's unfolding 
saga, however, as the Irish dropped 
the match in three straight games to 
the Redbirds, 15-1 1, 15-5, 1 5-12. 
Everybody knew that the match would be a tough battle. Illinois State had beaten Purdue, a team ranked in the top ten, three games to · one, and entered the Irish contest 
with a 5-0 record. 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, 
was swept in its season opener by 
the Boilermakers in three games. It's 
record stood at 3-3. It was evident 
that the Irish women would have to 
play a great game to challenge Illi­
nois State. 
At the start of the opening game, 
things didn't go as expected, at least 
not for Illinois State. The Irish held a 
surprising 11-9 lead in Horton Field 
House, and appeared to be on the 
way to taking the first game. But 
then something happened, as Illinois 
State started to bring out its power 
game and scored the next six points 
enroute to winning the first game. 
"We were leading 11-9, but I think 
we decided that we weren't 
supposed to be doing this against a 
team of their caliber, and we lost," 
Coach Art Lambert said, trying to ex­
plain the turnaround. 
Maybe the Irish should never have 
played the second game, after being 
demoralized toward the end of the 
first game. The Redbirds went 
straight to work with smooth and 
powerful play, making quick work of 
the Irish. The home fans responded 
to the 15-5 score, as Notre Dame had 
little to cheer about in i:he second 
game. 
The third game was the last 
chance for Notre Dame to make a 
contest of the match. The team 
struggled in the early going and Illi­
nois State spurted ahead, 11-4. 
At that point, the Irish started to 
put things together. Rallying around 
Offensively for the Irish, Molly McCabe had a total of 2 goals and 2 assists, Melissa Sommer had 1 goal and l assist Corinne DiGiacomo also had 1 goal and 1 assist. 
Lindenfeld cited Regina Degnan and Mary Rose Rodgers as standouts the fine play of center Mary team's preformance. "Until we do, McLaughlin and Tracy Bennington, we're in for a long season." they scored the next eight points of So the volleyball team must now the game to take a 12-11 lead. regroup and ready itself to play 
DePaul, a North Star Conference op­But Notre Dame's play faltered ponent. The contest will give Notreagain, as the Irish lost the serve and, Dame a chance to even its record,resultingly, the match. Illinois State which dropped to 3-4, and gain itstallied the next four points to win second victory without a loss in con­the game 15-12, and won the match. 
ference play. The match is set for "We have to learn how to put 
Friday at 8 p.m. in the main arena of teams away," said Lambert of his 
theACC. 
DiBernardo's return helps Irish on defense 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 

The 1984 Irish defense has been a topic ofmuch criticism. In watching the lackluster and uninsprired per­formances against Purdue and the first half against Michigan State, this criticism has a firm basis. 
In fairness to the defensive unit, injuries in key positions and inex­perienced players seeing a lot of ac­tion has, at times, hurt the overall defensive performance. 
However, after watching the ef­forts ofthe Irish in the second halfat Michigan State on Saturday, the repeated errors committed by the defense seem to be a thing of the past. 
In the final two quarters, the Irish allowed only a little over one hundred yards, but more impor­tantly, yielded only three points. 
A strong performance by Rick DiBernardo and others, enabled the Irish to come back and win the game, which at the beginning of the second halfappeared out ofreach. 
"I think we showed alot ofcharac­ter last week,", says DiBernardo. "The result proves that there are four quarters to a football game." 
DiBernardo made his presence known on the field while leading the Irish in tackles with eight. The Spar­tan rushing game wasn't nearly as successful in the latter part of the game. DiBernardo played a major role in its inefficiency. 
defensively, and also mentioned the fine versatile play of Nancy Camarote. 
Even if the victory over the Uni­versity ofWaterloo did not count on the team's season record, Lindenfeld felt good about the game. She 
"I am a team player, and do what I am supposed to do," comments DiBernardo. 
The 6-3 238-pound junior began the year as a backup to Mike Larkin who moved to the outside linebacker position last spring. When Larkin was injured in fall practice, DiBernardo would have started against Purdue, but a fractured wrist, which he suffered in the spring injury prevented him from playing. 
In evaluating his performance in the Irish victory, it's obvious that his efforts were missed in the opener. 
"I was sitting in the stands against Purdue," says DiBernardo. "I wanted to get out there and help the team." 
The two-time letterwinner was a major part of the reason Carl Butler was stopped in the second half after gaining 96 yards on the ground in the first half. 
"We really benefitted from DiBo's presence out there," Head Coach Gerry Faust said after Saturday's per­formance. "Our lack of experience at that position was evident in the Purdue game." 
In 1983, DiBernardo earned his letter for his fine job in backing up Rick Naylor at his current position, outside linebacker. He spent most of his freshman season playing on spe­cial teams. 
Iflast week is any indication ofhis capabilities, then it is sure that 
see DiBo, page 8 
Th~ ObServer/Vic 

thought it was important for Irish to get that first win under 
their belts. 
The Notre Dame field team will be in action this Friday against Valparaiso College at 4:30 on Alumni Field. 




