r--------------------------------------------~--­
Vandalism -page 6 



Examples of the vandalism which occured some of the door of Alumni Hall. Dillon Hall and the tinw early Sur~tlay morning The large photo shows Sorln statue werealsosprayed with the blackpaint. the front ofSouth Dining Hall while the inset is is (see story to right) 
Seven Lyons freshmen hand over Rockne bust at Colorado pep-rally 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE sec the return of Knute Rockne. The decision to make the bust 
Jidtlor-in-Cbief Faust set the bust on an empty more secure on its pedestal or to in­chair next to former DePaul basket­crease patrols of the Rockne ball coach Ray Meyer, who attended Memorial will be left up to the 
Shining and unharmed, Knute the rally. A few minutes later, secur­managers of the gymnasium, Terry Rockne returned safely Friday night ity officers took the bust from Faust. said. when seven Lyons freshmen handed Wehner said none ofthe freshmen Terry said security had no prior over the bust of the famed football involved knows the man who gave knowledge that the bust would turn 
coach at the Colorado pep rally. them the bust or the people respon­up at the pep rally. 
But Security Director Glenn Terry sible for the bust's disappearance The Investigation into who took said no one was apprehended. The from the Rockne Memorial last May. the bust will continue, he said, in freshmen were not questioned. Wehner said the arrangements to case someone comes forward with 
An unidentified male gave the meet the man at Stepan were set up more information. statue to the freshmen in the parking by another resident of Lyons HaJJ, The bust disappeared from the lot of Stepan Center shortly before who told the freshmen that she Rockne Memorial last May. the rally, according to Nancy Weh­knew a "friend ofa friend" ofthe per­Photographs of the bust in various nt:r, one of the freshmen involved. son who took the bust. locations were twice sent Wehner said the bust was wrapped "She told us that the people (who anonymously to The Observer. In a sheet. The man, she said, in­took the bust) were getting kind of structt"d the freshmen to push nervous because of all the The newspaper reported two throu¢1 the crowd and give tht" bust publicity," Wehner said. "It sounded weeks ago that two Notre Dame to Head Football Coach Gerry Faust. fun, and since we were freshmen, we alumni had identified three people 
When Faust noticed the freshmen couldn't be suspected." responsible for the disappearance of carrying tht" bust, he came over to Security kept the bust during the the bust. Security said last week that the t"dgt" of the stage and picked up weekend, but Terry said it will be it was unable to obtain concrete in­the statue. Wt"hner said Faust, shout­returned to the managers of the formation from the newspaper's Ing "Rock Is back!", was excited to Rockne Memorial. report. 
By TERRY BLAND vestigating the ca<;e, they would not StaffReporter discuss any details regarding it. Father james Riehle, rector of 
1be South Dining Hall, the Sorin Pangborn, expressed no knowledge Statue and Alumni and Dillon Halls of the incident. "I don't know anyth­all sustaineu damage Saturday night ing about it," said Riele. "When I got when vandals scrawled graffiti over to Corby for breakfast tht"y across several doors of the halls and were talking about it, so they know the ba<;e of the Sorin statue. about it." 
Black spray paint was useu in Altough Riehle diu not know writing Pangborn or Rangbor11 anything about the vandalism, he across eight of the wooden entrance "didn't believe anyone at Pangborn doors to the dining hall and across did it." "It would be pretty stupid to two side doors of Alumni halL N.H. put your own hall's name on some­
N.Y. was painted on Dillon Hall and thing like that," remarked Riehle. some sidewalks on the South Quaud. Father David Tyson, Vict"­Hi Mom was scrawled on the base of President of Sudent Affairs, saw the the Sorin Statue. destruction as "a real tragedy". "It's 
Although an exact time ha<; not not just an administration problem," been determined, an Alumni resi­explained Tyson. "It effects all tht" dent said, "I didn't see anything students." Tyson further com­when I got home about 3:00." Don mented that he "had not seen van­Dedrick, Director of Maintenance, dalism that bad" since he wa'i a believed it "happened sometime freshman here. "It goes beyond a 
around 4:00 on Sunday morning." prank," Tyson said. 
Removal of the paint will prob­ably not be difficult according to Jeff Mayer, a freshman at Dedrick. "Normally we would put a Pangborn, did not know about the detergent on the paint and disolve graffiti until this morning. "Some it," said Dedrick. "Then we would friends told me to go down and eat wash the paint away with high pres­breakfast and take a look at what sure water." Dedrick added the cost happened," said Mayer. Mark Brock­ofthe cleanup would not be great. man, a senior at Pangborn, told The 
It is not known who specifically Observer that, "strange stuff like that was involved in the vandalism. Al­doesn't usually happen." "It's just though Notre Dame security is in-ridiculous," Brockman said. 


N. Dining Hall floods 
By MIKE ELLIOTI scene Sunday afternoon when the StaffReporter cleanup was nearly completed said, "They had a lot ofcanned goods and 
The North Dining Hall was closed dry goods down there. The bottom for part of Saturday and Sunday due rows will probably have to be to flooding caused by a burst water thrown out." main on the building's south side. South Dining Hall was used to The sixteen inch pipe on the build­handle the influx of students and ing's exterior exploded with such visitors. Extra employees and food force that it blew a hole in the side of were transfcred to South, and the the building. About 200,000 gallons overload was handled efficiently, as of water filled the electrical engi­many students did not notice any neering and power rooms with difference in dining hall lines. about three feet ofwater 
Student workers pitched in to North Dining Hall was re-opened help dean up the mess which spread for dinner on Sunday and everything throughout the basement of the should now be functioning nor­building. Observer photographer mally. No reports on damage costs Lev Chapelsky, who visited the have been released. 

Differences remain between sexes under the Golden Dome 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a flr,e-part series focusing on sex dis­crlml11atio11 tit Notre Dame ami Saitlt Mary's. 1"omorrow's story takt>s a look at discrimination lt1 
the Notre /Jame's Admissions Of-flee. 
By TIIERESA GUARINO 
Assistant News Editor 
Since 197.2 when women were admitted to Notre Dame, there have been several areas which apparently did not adapt to the change. St. Mi­chael's Laundry is an example of a University service that does not seem to serve men and women equally. 
With each tuition bill; men are 
charged S'50 for a line of laundry 
credit to use during the semester. 
"Ibis fee covers a once a week laundry service. Anything over that S'50 is charged to the student's indi­vidual account. 
Women, however, do not have a laundry fee included in their bill. Any cleaning they bring to the Laundry is paid for with cash, or charged to an account they may open. Washing machines are pro­vided in each women's dorm for reg­ular use. 
Assistant Laundry Director Lupe Garcia said the service they offer to women is usually done on a small scale, and that the laundry would r·cally not be equipped to do wo­men's laundry on a larger scale. 
"Because all our laundry is washed together and handled in bulk, men's garments are easier to do," said Garcia. "Ladies garments usually have a lot of fancy, delicate 
items that could be ruined ifhandled 
in bulk." 
The Laundry does offer a dry cleaning service that both women and men can use, but students must 
Q d 
Sex Discrimination 
use their individual accounts or pay cash. 
Laundry Director Norman Muller explained why a lack of facilities prohibit the laundry from opening up to women. "We have a problem sometimes handling the laundry of small in stature males because our shirt pressers are so big. With wo­men's clothing, we would need spe­cial equip ment for blouses and skirts that we don't have." 
Muller added, "We would need more personnel, more equip ment, and a bigger facility, to do laundry for women on the same basis as the males." 
Apparently, however, women do not mind the discrepancy. "When we went co-ed, the decision wao; made that women want to do their own laundry," said Vice President for Business Affairs Tom Mason. "We decided the laundry service the way it is now wasn't appropriate for what women want laundered." 
Two years ago, St. Michael's opened to women on the cash and student account basis. Ma'ion said discussions over the years with wo­men led him to believe they like the system the way it is now. 
"We have tried to respond to what needs are. We're open for discussion -ifwomen want it (the full laundry service), I don't sec any reason not to open it," added Mason. 
Apparently, however, women do not want any change. Susan Scott, a sophomorc in Walsh said she doesn't have any problems with the laundry service now. "I would rather do it myself actually," said Scott. "I haven't heard really good things about the way clothes return from there, and I like being able to do my own wash." 
The housekeeping staff gives the same treatment in its maid service, to males and females, according to Assistant Director of Building Services Gregory Miinch. 
"We don't give our maids special instructions whether they are working In a men or women's dorm," said Miinch. "The work Is not supposed to be any different." 
The Observer 


In Brie£ 
A man who fatally shot one neighbor, wounded another and held off police for nine hours from a house was killed yesterday in a fire ignited by a tear gas canister, police said. Police exchanged shots with the gunman, whose name was not immedi­ately released, several times during the night before firing rounds of tear gas into the two-story, wooden house just before dawn, said Suffolk County, New York police Sgt. James Storz. The charred body of the gunman was found in an upstairs bathtub, said Sgt. Warren Grubner. The trouble began Saturday when the man began firing either a long-barreled rifle or shotgun for no apparent reason from his home, police said. -AP 
Eighteen people face charges in an alleged scheme in which an Illinois township official traded public assis­tance funds for sex with women who didn't qualify, authorities say. The 18 were indicted by a grand jury last week on charges including forgery, perjury, fraud and prostitution for involvement with former township supervisor David Lemke, who admitted trading rental aid for sex, said Warren County State's Attorney Warren McNeill. -AP 
China, the world's most populous country, had 1.024 billion people by the end of 1983, an increase of 16 million over 1982, the government said during the weekend. Wang Wei, the national family planning commission minister, said in a published report Saturday that population control "is not easy." But he did not say ifthe latest populationfigures exceed targets for China's strict birth control pro­gram. Wang said the birth rate dropped to 18.6 per thousand in 1983, compared with 36 per thousand in 1949. -AP 
Several thousand peoplewere evacuated, while thousands more were left marooned by more flooding in northern Bangladesh during the weekend, according to reports yesterday. The English-language daily Bangladesh Observer said about 7,000 people were evacuated Saturday to shelters in the districts ofJamal­pur and Sherpur. Thousands more were reportedly driven from their homes to high ground where they awaited evacuation as Jamuna River floodwaters rose. --1J> 
Of Interest 
International freshmen are invited to get to­gether tonight at 1 0 in Keenan Hall Conference Room (basement). ­
The Observer 

The Adopt-A-Transfer kickoffparty will be tonight at Senior Bar from 8 to 11. All present semester transfers are invited as well as their "dorm adopters." There will be dancing and a large­screen viewing ofMonday Night Football, and Senior Class President Dean Christy and Treasurer Rich Irwin, former transfers, will speak informally. No ID's will be required. For more information, call Alison Yurko at 2870. -The Observer 
Summer storage pickup deadline is sep­tember 28. Pick up will be at Laundry Office door 1. Storage that is not picked up by the dealine will be donated to missions. -The Observer 

Weather 

Partly sunny, warm and humtdtoday with a slight chance of thunder­showers with high around 80. The chance ofrain is 20 percent. Partly cloudy and warm tonight with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. Low in the middle 60s. Partly cloudy, warm and humid tomor­row with a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms. 
High in the lower 80s. -AP 

The Observer­
1be Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 1be Observeris published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for J30 per year ( 520 per se­mester) by writing 1be Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of 1be Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Production Consultant .................... Steve Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig Design Assistant ..... Kathleen Nicholson, 
Andi Schnuck Layout Staff. .. Cheryl Pilon, Kelly O'Neil Typesetters................. Cathyann Reynolds News Editor ...................... John A. Mennell Copy Editor ...................... Jane M. Kravcik Sports Copy Editor ......... Theron Roberts Viewpoint Layout ................... Paul Bruce 
---~ --­
..... 
Monday, September 24, 1984 -page 2 


Press overkill marks 1984 presidential campaign trail 

The 1984 presidential election is six weeks away, and the issue of Geraldine Ferraro's financial affairs is still making headlines. In a news conference with more than 200 reporters and 36 television cameras Ferraro ex­plained herself with polite, forthright answers. A defeated press cheered her. But the issue will not die. 
When the press is tired of Ferraro and her husband's tax returns it turns to another exploited issue of the campaign: the separation ofchurch and state. In report­ing this issue to the public, the press has blown it out of proportion and distorted it, perhaps beyond repair. 
First, the press reported that Ferraro had said the Catholic Church was flexible in its teaching on abor­tion. Then, the press rebounded with a report that Arch­bishop of New York John]. O'Connor had said the Democratic vice presidential candidate misunderstood the teaching of the Catholic Church. According to news sources, Ferraro cleared up 
this altercation with a phone cial advisors flock to New call to the Archbishop. Since York to cover a press confer­then Ferraro's religion has ence, and nearly 100 jour­been in the limelight of her nalists descend on South campaign. News articles and Bend for a speech by the analyses focusing on the governor of New York one church and state issue rarely must question whether the fail to drop Ferraro's name press has stepped beyond its and her difficulty to deal bounds. with the problem. She is of­One explanation for the ten described as being at press's behavior is that the odds with the Catholic press is not one monstrous Church hierarchy; and entity. It consists of O'Connor's "blasting" of independently-owned Ferraro is seldom ignored. newspapers, magazines, 
Few people will question that the separation of church and state is an impor­tant issue in the upcoming election. There seem to be ideological differences between the two leading candi­dates on this issue. But it is difficult to pin down either candidate because of cloudy news reports more con­cerned with incidents of conflict rather than the issue itself. 
The legal and moral status of a vice presidential nominee is also significant. What has she done that might disqualify her from the vice presidency? In all the scratching and digging the press has done it has dis­covered that one of Zaccaro's tenants (his company owns around two dozen buildings) is storing por­nographic materials in space in one ofthe buildings. The 
Philadelphia Inquirer revealed that Ferraro had received a contribution to one of her campaigns from someone described as an organized crime "figure." Ac­cording to New York Magazine another organized crime figure might have been a tenant in one of Zac­caro's buildings. Are these grounds for disqualification? 

Sarah Hamilton 
News Editor 
Inside Mond 
At least as important and potentially more dangerous than either of these election issues, is the issue of the press itself. The press transcends political parties. It provides all. classes ofsociety with reports and analyses ofcurrent happenings in the world and commentary on these events. 
Often the press is referred to as society's watchdog. However, in the past decade or so, it seems the press has broken its leash. Ever since the Pentagon Papers and Watergate the press has been gaining tremendous amounts of power. When 200 reporters along with ac­counting experts and finan­
television and radio stations, 
as well as media chains. Each 
is a source of news, but each is also a business. In order to stay in business each works to deliver a better product to the consumer. 
On the positive side this means grabbing the late­breaking story, presenting more in-depth coverage and thoughtful analysis. It means digging for facts in the Woodward-and-Bernstein style. On the uglier side it means checking out every one ofZaccaro's tenants, and day after day filling front pages with stories of rifts be­tween Catholic politicians and the Church. 
The business ofnews is an explanation for press over­kill, but it is not an excuse. Obviously the press realizes the power it wields, but it must also realize the respon­sibility with which it must use that power. Unlike the different branches of government which are kept in check by the other branches and the voting public, the press must restrain itself. It must stick to reporting the issues, not creating them. 

AIS 

Shipping and Packaging 
3617 Mishawaka Ave Mishawaka at Logan 
We ship Exclusively 
UPS 282-2556 




Sacramenta( Preparation 
at the 

University of Notre Dame 
Information Session Sundav. Sept. 30 Library Lounge 
7pm Ill! about Baptism and Fu(( Com.munion Preparation 
for unbaptised persons wishing to become a member of the Roman Catholic Church 
for baptised persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic Tradition for those desiring to know more about the Roman Catholic faith 
Bpm Ill! about Confirmation. Prrparation 
for baptised Catholics desiring to celebrate the Sacrament of Confirmation 
For more Information contact: University Ministry Office Badin Hall 

239-5242 

The Observer Monday, September 24, 1984 -page 3 


Women's caucus gives Mondale endorsement 
A.'i!!Odated Press 
WASHINGTON -Walter Mondale accused President Reagan yesterday of making "a cynical rewrite of his­tory" by Invoking the names of past Democratic presidents and the former vice president accepted the first-ever endorsement of the Na­tional Women's Political Caucus. 
In his weekly paid radio broad­ca.~t. Mondale urged Democratic voters to ignore Reagan's appeal to vote Republican on Election Day. 
Under a second Reagan term, Mondale said, there would be a "scary, intolerant, dangerous future. If you cross over to the Dallas Republicans, that's what you get. You don't just get the balloons, the pep rallies and the happy talk. You get (the Rev. Jerry) Falwell, Nicaragua and Star Wars, too." 
AI a news conference with Mondale at her side, Kathy Wilson, a Republican who chairs the women's caucus, said, "When It comes to wo­men, Walter Mondale stands tall. Ronald Reagan develops back prob­lems." 
The caucus ended 13 years of neutrality in presidential politics to endorse the first Democratic ticket ever to Include a woman, vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro. 
'Inc endorsement was announced just after Mondale recalled in his radio address that Reagan replaced a presidential portrait of Democrat Harry Truman with one of Calvin Coolidge in the White House Cabinet Room a few hours after taking office in 1981. 
""lbat'~ the real Republic:u~ Party. 


SEMES·I-ER IN SPAIN 
Not just for Spanish majors only, but for everyone: beginners, "in between" students, and advanced. Put some excitement into your college career!! 
BEGINNERORADVANCED-Costisaboutthe same as a semester In a U.S. college: $3,380. Price Includes jet round trip to Seville from New York. room. board, and tuition com­plete. Government grants and loans may be applied towards our programs. 
-----------------f-51 I I I coU~ge you aiiPnd 1 
-vo_u_rn-a-m-.--------------I I I 
your prPsf'nt strept address 

I -----------------I 
Ctly state z•p 1 
It you would Ilk• intorm•Uon on tutu,. program• gtve I perm1nent •ddreu below. 
I I your PE-rmanent ,tref"t address 
I I 
Ctly state 
I 
lbey may learn to quote Truman and Kennedy. But their history is with Coolidge and Nixon. So is their future." 

Polls indicate up to 2'5 percent of registered Democrats say they will vote for Reagan, but Mondale said he believes those defections are tempo­rary and will be recovered by Nov. 6. 
Reagan flew to New York to host a reception la.~t night in honor of the United Nations General Assembly, which he will address today. Also at the reception will be Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko, sched­uled to meet Thursday with Mondale and Friday with Reagan. 
In announcing the caucus' en­dorsement of Mondale, Wilson said the decision was not "an anti­

Republican  endorsement.  It's  an  
anti-Reagan  Republican  endorse­ 
ment."  

The endorsement, decided at the group's meeting Saturday in Char· lotte, N.C., was made because there is such a sharp difference between Reagan and Mondale on the Equal Rights Amendment, abortion, federal support for child care, arms control, Supreme Court appoint­ments and economic equity for wo­men, she said. 

At a later news conference, Mondale said the bombing at the U.S. Embassy annex in Beirut on Thursday wa.~ "a very severe breach of essential security on the part of this administration." Following similar attacks over the la.o;t year, Mondale said recommendations for improving security were either ignored or delayed. 


Experience Latin America 
with 

HOLY Cross Associates Chile program 
devoted to 
Christian exploration 
Communallifestvle 

For information contact: Mary Ann Foemer Center for Social Concern 
239-7949 

Live with a Spanish family, attend classes four hours a day, four days a week. four months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent to 4 semesters taught in U.S. colleges over a two year time span). Your Spanish studies will be enhanced by opportunities not available in a 
U.S. classroom. Standardized tests show our students' language skills superior to students completing two year programs in U.S. Advanced courses also. 
Hurry, it takes a lot of time io make all ar­rangements. 
SPRING SEMESTER -Jan. 30-May 29 FALL SEMESTER-Aug. 29-Dec. 19 
each year. FULLY ACCREDITED-A Program of Trinity Christian College. 
For full information -send coupon to: 

SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
2442 E. Collier S.E., F-5 Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 
Flanner Hall residents enjoy the beer and the sered," and therefore did not violate the rule about sunny weather at a tailgater in Green Field before student tailgaters. (see story below) Saturday's game. The tailgater was "parent spon-



Student tailgating remains similar to previous years despite restriction 
By DOUG HASLER, MIRIAM HILL AND CINDY RAUCKHORST 
StaffReporters 
Even with increased security, Sat­urday's tailgating activities were not noticeably different from last year's. 
Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame security, said patrols were in-
Simple living Service to others 
John Fitzpatrick Associates Office 
239-~521 
creased to enforce the new directive. No arrests were made for tailgating violations, although one tailgater will be referred to the office for student affairs. 
When asked of security arrange­ments for future home games, Terry replied, 'Right now, there are no plans for increa.'icd patrols.' 
It would seem that the lack of ar­rests came as no surprise to the Uni­versity. When contacted Friday afternoon, Sister jean Lenz, assistant vice-president for student affairs, said, 'We expect no student or stu­dent organization to organize a tail­gaiter.' 
All Notre Dame Football ticket holders received a notice with their tickets about the University's new al­cohol policy. They were warned that alcohol in open containers is 'strictly prohibited on the main campus.' Those who decided to take part in the tailgating activities at Green Field were cautioned of the liability associated with serving al­cohol to minors in the state of In­diana. 
Fewer students were present at Green Field due to a lack of student­sponsored tailgaters, and the field was somewhat quieter as a result. Several groups, however, managed to celebrate the first home game in traditional Notre Dame style. Dillon 


Group therapy offered 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN 
News Staff 

For the student who finds that talking things_ out with a friend or roommate may not be enough, the Counseling and Psychological Services Center on the third floor of the Student Health Center offers a wide range of group services. Both discussion groups and workshops are available in the group services program. 
The weekly 1-1 1/2 hour workshops run for four to five weeks and are centered around themes such as stress management and in­terpersonal skills. 
Discussion groups are scheduled to fit the members' needs. Interested students should seek an interview with a staff member in order to de­termine if group therapy is right for them. 
Agroup for students who have ex­perienced the loss of a family mem­ber or friend is also available. 
The group services were and Keenan halls sponsored tail­gaters, attracting hundreds of stu­dents to eat and socialize. Other students chose to have private tall­gaters with small groups of friends or to attend pre-game parties with parents. 
Many commented on the lack of change from last year and the ease with which students could still ob­tain alcohol at tailgaters. Sophomore Scott Stephen noted, "I wa.~n't even aware that students would be fined for having alcohol. When so many students are participating, how much control can the University have over the situation?" 
Additional feelings were ex­pressed by many alumni. Dave Schmitz, class of 1984, stated, "There doesn't seem to be as much alcohol flowing. I think the Univer­sity succeeded in cutting alcohol back, but did not eliminate it." 
In general, the alumni seemed sympathetic to the University's con­cern over student consumption of alcohol. Several of the older alumni commented that the rules were much stricter when they attended Notre Dame. However, most alumni did not discourage student partici­pation at alumni-sponsored tail­gaters. As in years past, they did not hesitate to offer alcohol to students, regardless of age. 
developed because of studies and the success of similar programs on other campuses Indicated their value. "Research showed us that group therapy in a lot ofsituations is just as or more helpful than individ­ual treatment," said Luis Valdes, Out­reach and Consultation coordinator for Psych Services. "And within the last 1 5 or 20 years, group therapy has become a popular and effective mode of treatment." Valdes noted that group therapy was especially popular on college campuses, where academic and peer pressure, anx­iety, and loneliness are common. Many campuses have a program similar to this. 
Group services, which are available free of charge to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, are entirely voluntary, Valdes empha­sized, "There's no coercion in­volved...it's totally up to the student." He also stressed that group services, like any other Psych Services treatment, is completely confidential by law. 
The Observer 

r 
r 
r 
t 
r r 
New parking regulations are announced by these signs in the stadium parking lot. Due to the opening ofDecio Faculty Office Building and the construction behind the ACC, faculty and staff are using the lots previously used by students. (see story below) 


Parking lot complaints caused by Decio, pool 

By BARBARA STEVENS 
News Staff 

The opening ofDecio Faculty Hall and the construction of the swim­ming pool at the rear of the ACC have necessitated a reshuffling of parking spaces. 
The stadium lots are more crowded this year because many fac­ulty members who formerly parked in the faculty lots close to their offices in the library now park at the stadium in order to be closer to their new offices in Decio, and because construction of the pool has consumed staff parking behind the ACC. 
To compensate for the increased number of people parking at the stadium, the entire north half of the stadium parking lot has been desig­nated faculty/staff parking. In addi­tion, the number of spots in faculty and staff lots A-1 and B-1 (now jointly known as AB-1) have been in­creased by removing the obstacles to snow removal such as curbing 
JW.......R~~.~~·;~..H·~·i·;..·.n 


Styling 
531 N. Michigan St., 

......~~~.~.~..~~.~:.~~?.!........11 
NEED AN IDEA 
FOR 
A FUND RAISER?? 
I have a great Item for the Fall/Winter seasons. Very useful, and a terrific 

self-seller. High Commission Wages. Call Deal Enterprlees 
234-3459 

(Please don't hesitate to leave a message with 
r 
my answering machine.) Thank-You, Mr. D. Logan 
r 
l 

and trees. Lot AB-1 has also been restriped. 
Some members ofthe faculty have complained that some days there are no spaces available in lot AB-1, but according to Glenn Terry, security director, there is always plenty of room in the back of AB-1 (the old B-1lot). 
To make up for the loss ofstudent parking at the stadium parking lot, students were given over 150 spaces in a lot marked D-1, between the University Club and Old Juniper Road. Signs noting the changes were posted September 10, but many people have continued to parkin the wrong place, and security has been issuing tickets. 
"The changes in parking allot· ment probably will be permanent," said Terry. "The pool takes up a lot of space, and Decio takes up a lot of space. I don't foresee any changes." 
Monday, September 24, 1984-page 4 


Reagan entertains Soviet minister 
Associated Press as a new flexibility toward America's 
superpower rival, Reagan used the 
NEW YORK -President Reagan en­reception to personally siu: up tertained Soviet Foreign Minister Gromyko, a durable member of the Andrei Gromyko and other United Kremlin leadership before their for­Nations members -yesterday and mal talks at the White House on declared his intention to seek a Friday. "realistic, constructive" relationship with the Soviet Union to try to In addition to Gromyko, whom reduce nuclear weapons. Reagan had never met before, about 
Armed with what aides described 200 other U.N. diplomats were 

Semester around the world offered at SMC 
By THERESA GUARINO Madras, air travel, all hotel and meal Assistant News Editor expenses, and transfers. Semester Around the World is 
The newest Saint Mary's abroad open to undergraduate students of program, Semester Around the any major, who have maintained a B World, is currently accepting appli­average. An information session and cations for the fall semester of 1985. slide show will be this Wednesday, 
Semester Around the World, Sept. 26 in room 348 Madeleva. Ap­which features study and travel in plications will be available there. India, the Far East, and Europe, invited to the reception at the Wal­dorfAstoria Hotel. 
"The United States wants nothing less than a realistic, constructive, long-term relationship with the So­viet Union, a relationship which would permit each of us to reduce, not increase, the number of our weapons -especially those nuclear weapons which threaten all humanity," Reagan said in remarks prepared for delivery. 
He said the U.N. members should pledge "in the names of our peoples and for the good of all human kind that we will continue to seek the kind of open and frank discussion which will help us to create a safer world." 
"We should never fear to attempt to change that which the pessimists call impossible," said Reagan. "Let us be optimistic about the' potential for peace, and let us never, never be afraid to speak with one another." 
opened last year to Notre Dame stu­dents. Only 20 students are chosen for each semester. 
The program is based in Madras, India, according to its originator, Cyriac Pullapilly, associate professor of history at Saint Mary's. Students study on the campuses of Stella Maris and Loyola Colleges, private Catholic schools affiliated with the University of Madras. They can receive 16 academic credits while studying philosophy, religion, his­tory, literature, sociology, govern­ment and economics. 
Students in Madras live in houses with kitchens and housekeeping staffs. During travel periods, "the group stays in fine hotels with both Indian and western cooking available," said Pullapilly. 
On the way to Madras, students visit Toyko, Hong Kong, China, Bangkok, and Nepal. Travel breaks during the semester are spent in southern India. At the end of the se­mester, the group travels to Bom­bay, Aurangabad, Jaipur, and Delhi. From there, students can choose to fly to Moscow or western Europe before returning to the U.S. 
Cost for the program is one se­mester's tuition, room and board at Saint Mary's, plus approximately $2500. This sum can be increased or reduced depending on changes in air fare, and hotel rates. The fee covers tuition, room and board at 
IS ALCOHOL APROBLEM IN YOUR FAMILY? 



ALATEEN 
For Young People Affected by Someone Else's Drinking 
IN ALATEEN YOU CAN:­
• 
Meet others who share your problems 

• 
Learn about alcoholism as an illness 

• 
Share your experience 

• 
Build your self-confidence 




You Cant;;;;;;;;;l 



Pilot o 

The Navy will train you! 
Must be a qualified college graduate or be within 18 months of graduation, under age 29 (30 for veterans) 
There are other Navy career opportunities available in: 
• 
Systems Inventory Management 

• 
.c\cquisition Contracting 



• Computer Systems $1.00 off any pizza. 
• Financial Management

$1.00 One coupon per pizza. 
• Nuclear Engineering
Off 
• Flight Surgeon 
Starting salary $17,500 plus medical benefits, travel, and rapid advancement. FOR MORE INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL: Navy Officer Programs at 

1-800-382-9782 

The Observer Monday, September 24, 1984-page 5 


Survivor of Beirut bombing says he Would return despite terrorism 
A."180Ciated Press 
IANDSHIHL, Wcst Germany-A 
li.S. Army scrgcant woundcd in thc bombing of thc U.S. Embassy in lkirut said yestcrday he would go hack cvcn though "it's hard to com· hat terrorism likc that." 
His commcnts wert: cchoed by embassy civilian employees ht:ing trt•;Ht·d at a hospital in Israel. 
Staff Sgt. Terry Tcrrdl, :U, of Salt:m, Ind., suffercd head and chest injuries in the sukidc truck hom· bing attack Thursday on the U.S. Em· hassy annex in cast Ht:irut. At least ninc pcoplt: wert: kilkd, including two Amcrkan scrvkcmen. Tcrrell was one of 20 Americans among the 72 injured. 
Terrdl spoke to a dozcn reporters at thc U.S. Army hospital in Landstuhl, whcrc he was flown for trcatmt•nt Saturday with dght other wounded. Asked by reporters about t·mhassy security, Terrell said, "If thcrc was enough protection I 
wouldfli be sitting here." 
Hc added, "They wcre doing all thcy could ... there's just not enough you can do about somcthing like that. Even if you put a IO·foot wall around there all they've got to do is fly a chopper in there and blow you up. It's hard to combat terrorism like that." 
Terrell said he would go hack to Beirut if asked. "I have no heartburn about going hack," he said. "That's the life ofa soldit:r." 
In lsrad, British-born Michael Mil· roy, a manager in the embassy's gen· cral services officc, said, "I would go hack immediately. I think there is a job still to he done and the United States should not leave Lebanon yet." 
Milroy, one of four wounded who was flown to Israel in two U.S. Navy helicopters ycsterday, spoke from his hospital bed at the Tel Hashomer Shcba medical center on the out· skirts ofTel Aviv. His chest, arms and face were badly cut and burned. 

Milroy said he was on the second floor ofthe embassy when the bomb went off. 
"Then I woke up on a hospital bed," he said. "I think the Americans did thc most thcy could to protect the embassy. But it is almost impossible to stop a suicide opera· tion." 
Philippines-born Robert Lora, an· other embassy civilian employee being treated in Israel for wounds, said he believed "the security was as good as it could have been. Some things were incomplete, but that was not signficant." 
An April 1983 bombing of the U.S. Embassy killed I 7 and an October 1983 attack on U.S. Marine headquarters in Beirut killed 24 l.A pro-Iranian, fundamentalist Shiite Moslem sect that calls itselfJihad Is· !ami -Islamic Holy War-claimed r sponsibility for all three attacks. 

West Germany's finance minister doubts talks will help Third World 

A."180Ciated Press 
WASHINGTON-West Germany's financc ministn warned poor countrit:s yestt·rday not to gct tht:ir hopcs up that special talks next spring on the world economic situa· tion will shape a solution to their $900 billion dcht problem. 
"We don't want to arousc spectac· ular, exaggerated cxpcctations," said (jt·rhard Stoltenberg, one ofoffi· cials from 22 countries who late Sat· urday adopted thc U.S. proposal for tht· global discussions at a meeting of the International Monetary Fund. 
"This is not the big conference on dcbt," Stoltenhcrg told reporters, apparently rl'ferring to pleas by in· dcbted Latin American countries for a high-lcvcl conference on the mon· etary crisis. 
Meanwhile, President Reagan met yesterday in Nt·w York with Raul AI· fonsin, president of the newly demo· cratic government in Argentina. 
That !iouth Amcrican nation is burdened with foreign loans ofsome S47 billion and for months ha~ been trying to work out a rescue package with the International Monetary Fund. 
In return for the help, the fund re· quires strict measures to try to restore these nations' economies to health. Alfonsin has been strongly resisting some of these steps. 
Finance ministers from around thc world gathered here for today's opening of the 39th annual meetings of the 147-member IMF and its sister agency, the World Bank. 
About two dozeq ministers took part in weekend policy meetings that discussed the outlook for the global economy and the continuing problems of the Third World. 
In general, most said they were heartened by the pickup in the world economy, led by the unex· pectedly strong upturn ln the United States. 
Ghulam Ishaq Khan, finance mini· ster of Pakistan, said economic growth is also beginning to be felt in the Third World. 
The Notre Dame L-5 Society
presents 
'A Case for Space' 
Monday Sept. 24 7PM 
LaFortune LiHie Theatre 



SAVE$$$ 

2.5 cubic Dormitory Refrig. 
$45°0 for School Year Limited Quantities 
BURNS RENT-ALLs INC. 332 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka 


259-2833 

Treasury Secretary Donald Regan was presenting to that group his pro· 
Is a Wet Campus Happy?
posal for global talks next spring. He 
A dining ball employee helps clean up North Dining Hall after

offered the plan, and it was unani· 
a watermain brokeandflooded the basement ofthe building with
mously accepted, at Saturday's 
threefeet of water. The flood forced the closing ofthe dining ball
meeting of the IMF's policymaking 
for part ofSaturday andSunday. (see story on page 1)
body. 



United Mine Workers review offer 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. -United Mine Workers local officers will get their first look at the union's pro· posed contract with the soft coal in· dustry at meetings around the coalfields today. 
The union has mailed summaries of the contract to members, but most local officials and the rank-and· file have yet to review the full con· tract. 
"Most ofthe ones I've talked to say it looks OK, at least from reading the summary," said Clifford Martin, a UMW field representative in Logan. "They're not looking at wages so much as keeping their jobs." 
District 17, the union's largest dis· trict, has scheduled its meeting today at 10 a.m. at the Madison Civic Center. 
After they review the agreement, the officers will explain the contract to the rank-and-file at local meetings tomorrow. Members then will have 48 hours to review the contract before the ratification vote, tentatively scheduled Thursday. 
The 40-month contract calls for a 
10.25 percent pay hike over the life 
SENIORS! 
Those registered/or SeniorInformal should pick up all tickets and info. Mon. 9 I 24 6 -8 Tues. 9 I 25 6 -8 
LaFortune Lobby 

THIS OLDE HOUSE 
PIZZERIA • PUB 
This Monday and Wednesday we wiD deliver a Media• 16" plzu with 1 topping for 

NEW HOURS 
4-12 p.m. Mon-Sat Each additional item is 4-10 p.m. Sun noo Now 0...For a...da 
..u ....n 
277-4519 
CAll.BEFORE 11:30 p.m. FOR DEUVERY liXPIRES 9126184 
of the agreement, meaning a top· scale miner would be making S I S.S7 an hour by the time the con· tract expires. It also provides protection for miners' jobs when companies sublease with non-union companies. 
The new contract also increases the number of paid inspections by union safety committees from four times to six times a year. 
"l'ye had a lot of miners stop by and talk about it," Martin said. "And they seem to be satisfied, at least with what they've seen. 
"There are two things that really caught their attention. They changed the language on subleasing, and that gives us good protection. lbey like that real good. And they like those extra safety inspections." 
Frank 'Iburman, who ran the UMW's political arm under former President Sam qmrch, said he wished the union leadership had sent the complete contract proposal to the rank-and-file sooner instead of issuing the summary. 





TYPING 
*Term Papers *Resumes *Letters 
*Manuscripts 
*Word Processing 
Call Chris At: 

234-8997 

~i~~~_()__i_ll___t________________M_o_nd-~-;S-ep-tem_b_er-24_,_19-84 p_~_e6 
Contempt for vandals 
The spray paint vandals that scarred the South Quad early yesterday mor­ning marked more than a few doorways or the base of the Sorin statue. The criminals have spit with contempt upon the community in which we live. 
This is not the work ofmerry pranksters, but rather some group who holds a deep grudge against Notre Dame. While it would be unjustified at this time to point fingers at anybody, it is necessary to express the disgust we all must have felt when we saw the buildings, home for many ofus, defaced with black spray paint. 
Whether the vandalism was the work of members ofPangborn Hall, as the paint on the doors ofAlumni Hall indicates, or some visitors in for the football weekend or whoever did it, this action should never have happened, and could have been prevented -but that is up to the security department. What we all have to deal with now is that somebody who would corrupt the beauti­ful residential South Quad probably would not think twice about walking into an unlocked dorm room to see what is lying around, or endangering Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students as they walk around the campuses late at night. 
Vandalism isn't supposed to happen here. And even though we have seen spray painted walls before, we haven't seen them at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. There are injustices in our world -some far worse than this -but because this one happened to us, it hurts. 
If we can find out who did this foul deed, then they should be criminally prosecuted. But even if we never find out, the shudder we all experienced when we first saw the defacement will remind us that real life is sometimes chilling. 
The Observer 

ALCOHOL POLICY ? WHAT,S -THAT? 


Hunger and inequality hurt North and South 
This year marks the tenth anniversary ofthe World Food Conference held in Rome in 1974. A major reason for holding that confer­ence was to respond to famine and drought conditions (particularly in Africa) which 
Bill Jordan 
guest column 

seemed completely om of control. It is diffi­cult to assess the success or failure ofinterna­tional efforts in this area because the issues surrounding hunger and starvation are so complex and the problems seem so distant from our own lives. 
On the one hand, certain areas ofthe world have seen some huge advances in the fight to feed themselves. India, for example, was con­sidered the most hopeless spot in the world twenty years ago. The problems of drought, underdevelopment and overpopulation seemed insurmountable, but food production has lately been on the rise in India. Poverty and underdevelopment are still acute prob­!ems there, but the example oflndia's increas­ing agriculture production shows us that international attention and aid on food issues is vitally important and can be successful. There is reason for optimism. 
On the other hand, it is obvious that the world hunger situation on a whole has deteriorated in the last ten years rather than moved forward. Progress is eclipsed by un­controlled population increases which are doubling populations in the Third World every twnety years while our own population level is remaining the same. 
I guess the question I would like to ask is, ­"What exactly will motivate us to do some­thing about these problems which seem so distant to us?" I believe Americans have a great quality they can be proud of; when they put their minds to doing something they can do it. At the same time we are pragmatic so I would like to make an argument that appeals to our sense ofpragmatism. 
One ofthe most interestingconclusions last semester's nuclear dilemma class came to in our final discussion concerned what our most prevalent fears were in the area of nuclear arms. There was an overriding consensus that our nation is not threatened as much by the Soviet Union as it is by Third World nations whose moralities justify terrorism. How would we respond to a terrorist attack with nuclear weapons? Even if a group, such as the Islamic Holy War ogrganization (who took credit for the latest U.S. embassy bombing in Beirut), took credit for a nuclear terrorist at­tack, how could we retaliate? By nuking the whole city ofBeirut (or nation of Lebanon for that matter)? It seems clear that the Soviet Union has respected the hard line foreign policy approach of our present administra­tion, bm I would argue that our policies in the Third World have nurtured more violent mentalities as we have been increasing the gap between rich and poor in our world. 
Vietnam might serve as a good example to learn by; we could not win that war because we could not find or understand the enemy. Students did not begin to protest the injustice of that situation until their friends started coming home in wooden boxes. That distant issue ofVietnam was brought home and con­cretely affected peoples' families before a stop to the war was demanded. Let us not wait any longer in dealing with the enemies to our sur­vival; namely poverty, hunger and starvation. Terrorist attacks are difficult to stop and knowledge of nuclear devices is proliferating beyond our control. 
In closing, I would like to quote a Brazilian terrorist named Ladislas Dowbor, who was in­terviewed by a French journalist Sanche de Gramont. Dowbor, a well educated man brought up under Catholic tutelage, morally justifies his use of violent terrorism: "My fa­ther invited me to a good restaurant and I refused. As a catholic, when you see children dying ofhunger, either you refuse a meal that could feed five children, or you abandon your Christianity... There was sufficient misery in Recife for morality not to exist...I had believed so strongly in the christian values I had practiced that I now had to replace them with something else equally valid." 
My argument is that hunger and the widen­ing inequality between North and South need to be dealt with...for our own best interest. 
Billjordan is a senior government major and a member of the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition. 




Without the right to life no one can be free 
Governor Cuomo courageously and elo­quently gave his justification for" his view that while he is personally opposed to abortion, he does not support legislation against abortion and indeed that he supports government fun­ding ofabortion. Both Cuomo and Father Res­burgh expressed their interest and eagerness to have an open discussion on this matter and to hear other points ofview. Here I would like 
Janet E. Smith 
guest column 

to explain why Cuomo's argument does not convince me, for I, too, am personally opposed to abortion but I think legislation is necessary and government funding is im­moral. Cuomo's argumentationpresents more difficulties than I am able to address here: due to space limitations I shall address only a few of the points which he made. 
Let me make short work of Cuomo's con­stant equation of birth control and abortion: he repeatedly stated that Catholics are not seeking laws or constitutional amendments against birth control; thus they should not be seeking the same for abortion. The difficulty with this agrument may best be exposed by noting that Catholics (and others) think glut­tony, pride, sloth, lust, drinking too much, etc. to be sins, but that we are not seeking .laws 
against them. We do seek laws against such sins as rape, and slavery, and genocide; the magnitude and nature of the sin determine whether we seek public sanction against it. Since Cuomo agrees that abortion is killing, he should recognize the faultiness of his equa­tion. 
Cuomo was courageous to take up the point of the parallel case of slavery. The argument made against him is that most ofus recoil from the phrase "I am personally opposed to slavery, but I would not impose my views on others". Those making this argument had hoped that Cuomo, too, would recoil from it and see that, thus, his view on abortion is un­tenable. 
Cuomo does not recoil from this statement and in fact attempts to turn the analogy to his benefit: he suggests that some good men at the time thought it imprudent to seek legislation against slavery then and that the situation with abortion is similar now. He rightly informs us that even Lincoln was willing to tolerate slavery in some states and to work in a gradual way to have it outlawed in other states. Lin­coln held this position, made this prudential judgment, because of the division and bloodshed which would most likely result were the laws to be changed suddenly. So too, Cuomo thinks abortion wrong, and presumably would like to see it outlaws· (though he never said this explicitly); he simply thinks that it is impractical, unrealistic, and divisive to push for legislation now. 
Let us examine the parallel as made by Cuomo. Although Lincoln may have been jus­tified, I have wondered how Lincoln would explain his action to slaves. Let us imagine Lin­coln addressing a group of slaves and justify­ing his position: "Slaves, I agree that your fundamental right to freedom is violated by the practice ofslavery but I think that it would be wrong to disturb the public peace in order that you might enjoy those rights. You see, some people think that black people do not deserve the same rights as all of us; I would like some time to convince them that you do. Let us work at this gradually, and perhaps in a few generations we may succeed in convinc­ing those who have voting rights to grant your emancipation. Presently I must simply uphold the law ofthe land which allows slavery." And if Lincoln reasoned like Cuomo he might add: "And furthermore, I believe that the poor and disadvantaged should not be deprived of the privilege ofthe rich so I am proposing the gov­ernment funds be used to provide slaves for the poor. I am sure you will understand my position." 
If it were possible for Gov. Cuomo to ad­dress the unborn, what would he say? "Hello, little ones! You, too, may play football some day at Notre Dame, if your mother does not have an abortion. I would like to help you be­cause I believe that you are human beings and that abortion is killing. I believe that you have 11 right to life but I feel it would be wrong to impose my views on those who do not agree with me. In fact, I will help your mother pay to have you killed because I know she would do it anyway and I would not like her to fall short on money for the rent. So, be patient, little ones; perhaps after several more millions of you are killed, we might be able to persuade the American public that you have the right to life and they will stop the killing." 
Perhaps Lincoln was right, perhaps blacks and their supported should have been more patient, perhaps it is right to allow the viola­tion of the fundamental rights of some in or­der to protect the peace of all. Certainly he gave witness to his opposition to slavery by frequently denouncing slavery. Cuomo would convince us better of his "personal opposi­tion" to abortion ifhe would speak out against it and try to get others to share his opposition. 
But is abortion a parallel case to slavery? Not quite, for here the fundamental right being violated is even more fundamental; it is not freedom but the right to life: without life, one cannot be free. And would a law against abortion be divisive in the same way that a law against slavery would have been? Would there be any bloodshed? Would there be bloodshed to match the bloodshed which we now have with over one million and a half abortions a year? 
This is the first in a two-partseries byjanet 
E. Smith,founderandfaculty advisorfor the ND-SMC Right to Life Group, and chairman of the board for the Women's Care Center­Pregnancy Help Center. 




Showcase 
Monday, September 24, 1984-page 7 
Sir Obnoxious returns 
by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 

S
top. 
Stop whatever you arc doing and listen up. I don't care if you 
arc eating lunch, brushing your teeth, or giving birth to a baby. Stop 
right now, because it's true, and there's nothing you can do about 
H. 
Sir Obnoxious is back. 
Sir< >bnoxious realizes, ofcourse, that at the culmination oflast 
ycar·~ battle against Miss Manners (from which, Sir Obnoxious 
hastens to add, he emerged victorious), he vowed never to return 
to this desolate campus where rudeness and crudeness reigned 
free. 'Inert: was nothing more to be done here, or so Sir Obnoxious 
thought as both Administration and students pecked back and forth 
at each other with complete tactlessness. And Sir Obnoxious was 
proud. 
But while lounging in his six-bedroom house in Beverly Hills,'Sir 
Obnoxious became restless, and frequent visits from Ozzy ' 
<>sbournc were becoming too much ofa good thing. And then the 
~ad truth dawned upon Sir Obnoxious that even one year away 
from this place would dear the way for a tactful, polite, goody-two­
~hocs frt·shman class. 
So now Sir Obnoxious addresses the freshmen who continue to 
cxt·usc themselves after burping, those who still keep their dhows 
off the table, and those who don't watch Monty Python. 
Wi~e up, you little rugrats. Get a due. 
And listen to the wisdom ofSir Obnoxious, while turning a deaf 
t·ar to the preachings ofthat clueless bimbo Miss Manners. 
And now to the topic at hand. 
Sir Obnoxious wishes to address himsdftoday to the events 
which you call "pep rallh.:s." Pep rallies arc Sir Obnoxious' type of 
thing: a large gathering ofboisterous people given to screaming 
and shouting. In other words, they arc inherently obnoxious. Sir 
Obnoxious himself has attended a few such events and loved them. 
If ever any occasion gave opportunity to cry havoc and let loose 
the mutts ofobnoxiousness, it is the so-called pep rallie. 
Among the spectacles Sir Obnoxious has admired about these 
events have been flying rolls of toilet paper, hot and sweaty 
armpits, lots ofgood places for a "stick-up," and multitudes of 
broken promises. Last Friday, as a matter offact, 60 minutes ofgood 
football were promised in return for 60 minutes ofcrowd support. 
Sir Obnoxious saw a small chance for fun. He promised, and left the 
game at halftime. 
However, Sir Obnoxious by no means believes that pep rallies 
have reached their full potential as opportunities for the unleashing 
of rude and uncivil behavior. No, not by any means. On the 
contrary, Sir Obnoxious believes that there isalways room for 
improvement, a'i it were. 
And so Sir Obnoxious proposes the following: a pep rally 
sponsored by one entity, I.e. a dorm or campus club, which, while 
including all of the aforementioned discourtesies, would also be 
used as a method oflashing out at another entity, i.e. another dorm 
or campus club. 
Sound good? Imagine the possibilities. 
Just imagine a dorm holding its own pep rally, complete with 
music, loudspeakers and loud speakers, making lots and lots of 
noise on the quad as it posed under the guise 'or a spirited 
endorsement for the football team. Yes, be sure to include many 
cheers and rah-rah sorts ofspeeches, and also throw in some 
prominently located banners and signs. But then toss in the meaty 
stuff. What Sir Obnoxious means is that, a'i long as you've got the 
privilege ofamplified communication, and a'i long as you've got 
lots ofpeople listening to your every howl, why not take the ball 
and run with It? 
Yes, now you've got it. Do you hate the members ofthe Karate 
Club? Call them names over the microphone. Do you despise the 
workers in the dining hall? Make very obvious references to them 
on your banners. Do you enjoy poking fun at alumni? Incorporate 
the appropriate sentiments into your cheers. Get the whole crowd 
into it. Ifyou've got the voice, use it. Sir Obnoxious always does. 
Pep rallies of this sort would be the lowest form ofunsubtle 
tactlessness imaginable when utilized to their proper potential. Sir 
Obnoxious proposes such rallies to anyone and everyone who 
wishes to make Sir Obnoxious proud through manifestation of 
utter discourtesy and the exhibition ofabsolutely no class at all. 
Your Majesty Sir Obnoxious: 
Aht·m. You'lllikc this. I know you hate it when people read over your shoulder, and so I took the liberty ofdoing just that. Yeah, I did it, and now I got something to say. You ain't so special. No, and you know why? Because we thought ofit first. That's right, we had a pep rally just like the one you just wrote about, uh huh, we did it first. What do you think about that? 
A Dillon Animal OAmwying Remler: 
Sir Obnoxious apologizes for the oversight, and wants you to know that he is doubly proud ofyou. It took an enormous amount ofskill to rt·ad over Sir Obnoxious' cold shoulder without having your nost· turned inside out, and is glad to know that someone on this campus wa~ baseless en<?ugh to be thinking ahead ofSir ( >bnoxious himself. Congratulations on a job well done. 
Feding much too correct? Address all inquiries on the back of an olcl homeu•ork assignment in green or red ink to Sir Ob­noxious, in care ofIbis newspaper. Maybe he'll respond and maybe be won't. So there. Nyaab. 


Meet the Bollweevil family 
by Sam Moore 
features staff writer 
M
any people consider Flanner Hall, judging by its modern architecture, a symbol of the isola­tion of the modern age. They imag­ine Flanner as a cold, impersonal dorm where y_..1're lucky if some­one speaks to you. I decided to five at Flanner after a weekend stay during my senior year in high school. 
I reported to my room on the 7th floor on the Friday offreshman orientation. I met my roommate, and the other four freshmen that shared our six-man suite. Over the next few days we ventured out and met the other freshmen in the sec­tion. Once we had had a chance to adiust to classes, we attended our first section meeting at which the seniors were friendly, if not under­standably distant. This calm, predic­table, routine beginning in Flanner was no indication ofwhat was to come. 
As I didn't take Chemistry II5, I was sleeping soundly on Emil Eve, when suddenly, there was the dis­tinct odor ofbaby powder in the room. The upperclassmen were using a blow-dryer to blow the powder into our room. My roommate awoke, and tried to turn on the lights. When they didn't turn on, we realized our a'isailants had planned this attack carefully. An attempt to open the door would have also been in vain, it had been pennied shut. Perhaps that was for the best. I later found out that beyond that door were I 5 up­perclassmen armed with shaving cream and ready to fire on sight ofa freshman. Thus without too much difficulty, I had survived "Freshman Orientation" and earned the dis­
tinction ofbeing a Bollweevil. 
The origin of the Bollweevils was during the 1979-80 school year, when Paul Ocrenzi,'82, decided to kick off a section meeting with what came to be known as the joke: "What eats cotton and rides a motorcycle?--Evil Bollweevil." And thus, the birth of the Boll weevils. A member of this new breed would be a daring, intelligent, trustworthy, ath letic man, a noble example of the Notre Dame male. 
As the semester passed, the other freshmen and I progressed in our Bollweevil education. We became familiar with the Bollweevil joke, we awaited the Bollweevll Bowl (played against our rival section, 7 A) with ferocious determination, most importantly, we began to enjoy a sense ofunity, a bond that lasted through both the good times and the bad. This new unity meant that each Bollweevil got praise for doing well at something, consola­tion if a misfortune or tragedy struck, or abuse ifone dressed "weird". And back in the old days, when section parties were tolerated, we hosted ba'ihes. There we would drink, dance, embarrass ourselves at times and, after the bash, we would mello out and reminisce about our favorite mo­ments ofthe party. 
One of the highlights of the Bol­lweevil ye .. r was, and is, our raucous Christmas party. It's a semi­formal affair that features the legen­dary "Christmas play." This play features upperclassmen a'i they hilariously roast their fellow Bol­lweevils through theatre. Our guests, who come by invitation only, enjoy the revelry and a great time is had by all. 
life is change, and change hit the Bollweevils as hard as it does anyone. One Bollweevil graduated and a few others left the section for elsewhere. Nevertheless, sopho­
more year arnve<l, we changed locales and we had a new freshman group to train in Bollweevilism. This time, we were the ones wreak­ing havoc during "freshman orienta­tion". Again,-the same comradery developed, which in a year oftransl­tion and indecision, was a relieving constant. The freshmen brought a welcome diversity to the section, this balanced well with the tradi­tion provided by the elders, espe­cially Head Bollweevil Mark Primich,'84. 
A Bollweevil section meeting rivals "The David Letterman Show" for fun and entertainment. Usually held in the Red Room, named so because of the room's bright red carpet, the meeting opens with, of course, the section joke. Then, we proceed to such important issues as electing a new section leader. After the meeting ends, we might enjoy the cultured plea'iures ofan activity such a'i the section pile-on. 
Now it is my junior year. There are many differences between la'it year and this year. I propose that we measure years in terms of Before Policy ( B.P. ), and After Policy 
(A.P. ). In this year I A.P., the cocky sophomores of 1982-83 are now seniors 1.nd preparing for upcoming LSAT's, this year's sophomores have built a lounge to rival the Red Room, and this year's "freshman orientaticn" was too tame. But the Bollweevils carry on and will, indeed, m..Jst survive. A student's lifestyle should entail a minimum of lonliness. The Boll weevils are a family. Nothing more need describe us. 



Not just a student center 
by Anne Garibaldi 
features staff writer 
cable from the ceiling of the museum. His assistant would test fly the models around the museum. During one flight, the assistant had to put out his feet to prevent him­selffrom crashing into the wall. The next morning, Brother Benedict, the Science Hall curator, found the footprints high up on the wall. Brother Benedict decided that only the devil could walk along the wall. He immediately sprinkled the entire building with holy water to expurgate the "evil spirit." 
Albert Zahm's aerodynamic ex­ploits were not confined to the interior ofScience Hall. He launched the first man-carrying glider from the building's roof. The knowledge gained from his experi­ments contributed a great deal to the aeronautical science which later made the Wright Brothers' flight possible. 
The roofofScience Hall was also the site ofanother technological "first." In 1895 Dr.jerome}. Green became the first American to send a wireless message. The message was sent from the roofofScience Hall to Hoynes Hall at Saint Mary's College. 
Many students :ftld future scien­tific pioneers, includingjulius Nieuwland, the discoverer ofsyn­thetic rubber, were trained at Sci­ence Hall. Even as Science Hall played an important role at Notre Dame, eventually there became a need for greater scientific facilities than the Hall could provide_ In 1953 the Hall began a new chapter in its history when it wa'i con­verted, with the assistance ofan unrestricted gift from joseph A. Lafortune, into the present l.afortune Student Center. 




Sports Briefs 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Monday 
through Friday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey teamwm be meeting 
from 12-1 p.m. Monday, Wednesday and Friday at the ACC. Team members should bring their skates. -The Observer 

Ohio State beats Iowa 

Monday, September 24, 1984-page 8 

Payton passes Harris 


Seahawks hand Chicago first loss 
Associated Press yards to Roger Craig, two yards to 2. Rick Parros scored the Broncos' 
Freddie Solomon, and 51 yards to other touchdown. 
Dwight Clark. The 49ers, 4-0, led Phil Simms' second touchdown 

The Seattle Seahawks knocked the only 14-9 after three quarters before pass ofthe game, a 21-yarder to Zeke Chicago Bears from the undefeated Cavanaugh connected with Clark, Mowatt, earned the Giants, 3-1, their ranks yesterday, while San Francisco sending the Eagles to their third loss victory over Tampa Bay, 1-3. Simms and Miami kept their unbeaten in four games. earlier combined with Bobby streaks alive in National Football Dan Marino connected with Mark Johnson on a 21-yarder. Lawrence League play. Duper on 80-and five-yard scoring Taylor had four of the Giants' five 
While suffering a 38-9 loss, plays and Pete Johnson, recently ac­sacks. Chicago's Walter Payton moved past quired from San Diego, scored from Steve Bartkowski threw three Seattle's Franco Harris as the No. 2 one-yard out to give the Dolphins a touchdown passes and Gerald Riggs rusher in NFL history behind Jimmy 4-0 record and drop Indianapolis to scored twice on short plunges as At­
Brown. 1-3. lanta extended Houston's league­
Payton rushed for 116 yards on 24 Marino completed 14 of 29 passes record road losing streak to 20 carries, giving him 12,091 yards to for 257 yards and now has 12 touch­games. Art Cox combined with 
Associated Press umph. Purdue slugged Minnesota Brown's 12,312. Harris was held to down passes for the season. Bartkowski on scoring plays of 23 34-10, and Northwestern rallied for 23 yards in 14 carries, putting his Jeff Kemp, making his debut as and 16 yards and Billy "White a 40-3 7 decision over Indiana. yardage at 12,032. Rams' quarterback in place of Shoes" Johnson on a 25-yarder. 
Tailback Keith Byars ofOhio State Michigan State Coach George Quarterback Dave Krieg, bounc­injured Vince Ferragamo, combined Atlanta evened its record at 2-2, had wondered for the past 12 Perles might have led to his team's ing back from a poor first half, with Ron Brown on a 52-yard touch­while the Oilers fell to 0-4. months what it might have been had downfall at Champaign. Perles scored from three yards out and down to give the Rams a 14-7 lead in Jan Stenerud kicked five field he been able to play the entire game recently said Illinois Coach Mike combined with Eric Lane on a 55-the third quarter and Mike Lansford goals-35, 32, 37,34 and 19 yards an against Iowa last year. White should have been fired fol­yard score againt Chicago. The added 29-yard field goal for a 17-7 Minnesota recovered three second­
Byars found out Saturday much to lowing NCAA investigations that Seattle defense accounted for its advantage. The Bengals, 0-4, half Detroit fules. The Lions got four the dismay of the Iowa Hawkeyes landed the Illini on probation. three other touchdowns -keith bounced back to make it 1 7-14 on touchdown passes from Gary who fell beforl! the fifth-ranked White downplayed any revenge Simpson and Terry Jackson running Ken Anderson's 10-yard touchdown Danielson. The Vikings are 2-2, the Buckeyes 45-26 in a Big Ten opener. motive and attributed much of the back interceptions and Joe Nash toss to Cris Collinsworth, but the Lions 1-3. 
The 6-2, 233-pound junior rushed victory to an aroused defense that recovering a fumble in the end zone. Rams, 2-2, clinched it on Mike Stenerud's 34-yarder with 2:07 23 times for 120 yards and touch­blanked the Spartans in the second Guman's 43-yard return of an on­remaining proved to be the differ­downs of 50 and 7 yards. He caught half while Illinois was scoring 30 Both teams are 3-I. side kick. ence. 5 passes for 55 yards, including one points. In other games, San Francisco Kemp, a fourth-year pro, com­for 14 yards and a touchdown from Wisconsin turned the ball over to defeated Philadelphia 21-9, Miami pleted 13 of 23 for 205 yards Pat Ryan combined with Wesley Mike Tomczak. And he completed a Michigan five times on fumbles, but belted Indianapolis 44-7, the Los An­without an interception. The Rams' Walker on three scoring passes to 35-yard pass for a touchdown. Wolverine Coach Bo Schembechler geles Rams topped Cincinnati 24-14, Eric Dickerson rushed for 89 yards lead the Jets, 3-1, past the Bills, 0-4. 
Last year at Iowa City, Byars said: "we were not lucky. We hit Dallas beat Green Bay 20-6, Denver but lost three fumbles before leaving Three field goals by Joe Danielo rushed for 98 yards in the first half pretty hard. I didn't see anybody dumped Kansas City 21-0, the New with an injured wrist. pulled Buffalo to within two points but missed the second half because feeling sorry for me when I turned it York Giants nipped Tampa Bay 17-Dallas needed a big boost from its in the third quarter, but Ryan's ofan injury as Iowa won 20-14. over to Washington five times. 14, Atlanta crushed Houston 42-10, defense to down Green Bay. Safety fourth-quarter 35-yarder to Walker 
"I felt some redemption in this "That was a gutty victory for us," Minnesota edged Detroit 29-28, the Michael Downs registered two sacks stood up for the winning margin as game," said Byars, who has ex­said Schembechler, who lauded the New York Jets got by Buffalo 28-26, and blocked an extra point and cor­the Bills scored later on a 31-yard pressed the wish of winning the play ofJamie Morris. Morris rushed Cleveland upset Pittsburgh 20-10, nerback Everson Walls intercepted pass play from Joe Ferguson toJulius Heisman trophy twice. "I was won­for 138 yards and caught four passes New Orleans downed St. Louis 34-two passes. Dawkins. dering a whole year if I had played for 45 yards. 24 and Washington beat New En­Tony Dorsett and Timmy the whole game if the outcome "It's frustrating," Wisconsin gland 26-10. Newsome scored on short runs and Cleveland, 1-3, broke into the vic­might have been different." Coach Dave McClain said. "You San Diego, 2-1, plays the Los Rafael Septien booted two field goals tory column by overcoming a 7-0 
Defending champion Illinois, can't have five fumbles and one in­Angeles Raiders, 3-0, tomorrow for the Cowboys, 3-1. Green Bay is halftime deficit to Washington. Paul 16th-ranked Michigan, Purdue and terception against Michigan." night. 1-3. McDonald had 1 5 completions in 28 Northwestern also posted Big Ten San Francisco's Matt Cavanaugh, tries for 293 yards, including touch­
triumphs Saturday. Ray Wallace, a defensive back replacing the injuredJoe Montana at Denver, 3-1, got 139 yards rush­downs to Boyce Green and Durie! 
Illinois, 2-0 in the conference and who was switched to tailback, quarterback, completed 17 of 34 ing, including a six-yard touchdown Harris. Pittsburgh fell to 2-2 as 2-1 overall, slugged Michigan State rushed for 158 yards and three passes for 252 yards, including three from Sam Winder and Mike Harden Steeler quarterback David Woodley 40-7. Michigan took advantage of touchdowns to lead Purdue past touchdowns, and no interceptions. ran back an interception 45 yards for hit on only nine of 25 passes for 163 Wisconsin mistakes for a 20-14 tri-Minnesota. His touchdown passes went 35 a touchdown against Kansas City, 2-yards. 

in Big Ten football play 
The Ohsert'<'r Notre Dame oftkc. locatnl on the third tloor of J.al'ortunc Student Center. accepts classitlt-<.1 a<.ln·rti~ing from <.J a.m. until ~p.m .. :\lontlay through fri<.lar. The Ohsen•er Saint .\1ar(' office. located on the third tloor of Haggar College Center. at-cepts cla"itk<.l~ from 12:.~0 p.m. until -~ p 111.. \ton­day though Friuay Dc:adlinc: for next-day cla"ilieds i' -~ p.m. All t·la"i!inh must he prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge b 10 cents per five charac­



Classifieds 
ters er <.lav. 

NOTICES  WANTED  I need 7 Miami Tickets. If you can help. please call Liza 5463 (SMC). Notre Dame Alum will pay $100 lor 6 AIR FORCE GA·s. Please call277-8653.  IUDIE4YOU /UDIE4 YOU I'LL DIE 4 YOU Would you die for me?  But I won't let others liva in hell As we divide against each other And fight amongst ourselves ... A new heart is what I need Oh God, make it bleed... Is there nothing left? --··uke A Song·' ,U2  TO THE PUREST VISIONARY IN ROCK HISTORY, YOUVE SHOWN US THAT IT AtN•T NO SIN TO BE GlAD YOU"RE . ALIVE AND YOUVE GIVEN US A RARE GLIMPSE AT EXCELLENCE UNPARAL­ 
LELED. YOUR STRENGTH IS DEVAS­ 
FACT: The Air Force game is coming up  SENIORS  DILLON is a joke. Enough said.  TATING IN THE FACE OF ALL THESE  
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training Challenge! Ad· venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 TYPING AVAilABLE. 287-4082. BOOKS BOUGHT, SOLD,AND TRADE!! Present this ad and receive an extra 10/ OFF store books. PANDORA·s BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 ......................... EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009.  SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) I need aridetoEast Lansing Friday, Sept. 28 as early as possible. Returning Sun­day Sept. 30 whenever. Call me at 283­1810. PLEASE' FOR SALE student car for sale $200-50 Dan at 272-6457 TONI MO. the diary of a search that lasted three years.  soon. FACT: Two people I know are coming up soon. FACT: They don•t have tickets, but want to see the game. FACT: I need two tickets. FACT: My name is MATI.I carry a badge. CONCLUSION: If you don•t call 2577 soon and sell me two GA·s to the Air Force game. l"m going to do something terrible to your dog. MY GRANDPARENTS WILL COME VISIT ME IF I CAN GET THEM 2 PENN STATE GA TIX. PLEASE HELP!$$$ Col­leen3735 PLEASE HELP MY IRISH CATHOLIC GRANDMOTHER has vowed to see an ND game before she dies so I need a S.C. G.A. for OCT 20 call Cindy 2933 MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED 2 Miami GA·s  If you want to go to NEW ORLEANS for the Senior Class Trip, BUT Have NOT Paid your Deposit. Well, PLEAZ Call Bill at 288-4637 if you want my Deposit!! HETROSEXUAL HUMAN(s) WANTED. SHARE EXPENSES ON LUXURY 2 BDRM APT. CALL !!! 256-6676 (Except during: Fri. Night. or Sat. & Sun. After­noon) The biggest supporter of our dear Presi­dent. R. Reagen. is 19 today. Call her at 26121o find out how she really feels about her idol. CATHIE,SKIP AND MARK-best of luck on Tuesday with Genetics ... you deserve it!KNOCK EM DEAD! WISHING LISA & JOAN THE HAPPIEST OF BIRTHDAYS!! CON AMOR DE MA TI  ...... ... .............. Dillon is the only Animal House with a// sheep. RICH LOVES ROSE and SCOTI LOVES SUE but RUDY and VI. .. THEY LOVE WHO? jamonit To the person who stole my "Investments·· bOOk out of my backpack which I had placed in a podium in a Hayes-Healey classroom so a THIEF like YOU would not STEAL it. I hope you and all your family choke to death on your Thanksgiving dinner! (Inside MY bOOk. on the first page. it says who I am and where I live. Now. why don·t you just tell me who you are and where you live?). IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS ORDER CORSAGES AND WRAPPED FLOWERS IN ADVANCE  ODDS ... HAPPY B-DAY BOSSMAN RICK. WHAT"S YOUR PROB PROB PROBLEMAGE? Paul: ·we want each other oh so much Why must we play this game?"" Why deny it? You proved you can·t resist MY LOVE-•Thanks for the four days here­I had a great time. JENNIFER Al.ANON/Al.ATEEN Is alcohol a problem in your family? Are you affected by some­one etse·s drinking? Maybe we can help Call2395085 Help' I am in need of a ride to or near Minn. on the weekend of Sept. 28 will share expenses. Call284-5524 IT"S YOUR DAY BIRTHDAY QUEENS LISA & JOAN LOVE KATHLEEN  
0 ................~ ................  ICE HOCKEY EQUIPMENT (COMPLETE SET-SKATES) PHONE STEVE2742  needed. Call Mike at1740. NEED 2 MIAMI GA·s CALL PETER -4606  Open your eyes And see the world that stands before you now  IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS  Riders needed to IU Bloomington 9/28­9/30. Call Kathleen SMC5162.  
Paveat emptor THERE IS ONLY ONE TOMINO! DESPERATELY need ride to MIZZOU; if you can help. call Kim 4174 LOST/FOUND I 1~....-_T_IC_K_ET_s____.  PERSONALS The poets and the pipers Have got their motives;  Open your eyes And see the world that stands in front of you -Aala OSH! Excuse me? All Chieftains want to wish you a Happy Birthday! Have a great PARDOOSKI, ACE! Join us for SUDS  heyP•t, Where have you been holing up, scruff? Wanted to wish you good luck in person. but I haven·t been able to find you. How about celebrating afterward? (will I have to call you Doc then?!) Good luck!!! Thumper p.s. don•t look so surprised'  ATIN: SMC JUNIORS THOSE INTER­ESTED IN BEING CHAIRPERSON FOR GRADUATION OR SENIOR TRIP Co­CHAIRPERSON, PICK UP AN APPLI· CATION ATHCC DESK. PLEASE TURN IN APPLICATIONS BY SEPT.27TH. QUESTIONS CALL JANET SMc-5341  
LOST: KEYS, Coat ot Arms key ring;  You've got yours, no doubt.  and SUDS! Love, Betty Crocker and Julia  AP Ia • dirty word.  
Room 259; Mark x1154  I NEED 2 MIAMI TfX. CALL DAVE D. AT  Andso the game continues;  Child P.S. Meet Chet at CORBY·s!  SENIORS STILL UNDECIDED ABOUT  
1801.  Thafs what ifs a// about.  ...  . ................................ .  THE SENIOR TRIP? WOULD $25 OFF  
FOUND: Tortoise shell glasses in pink  DESPERATELY 'NEED RIDE TO MIZ­ THE PRICE HELP? TAKE OVER MY  fm dizzy in the head;  
Pearle Vision  Center  case.  Found  at  Need One Penn State Student Ticket.  -Trtumph  ZOU: Cell Kim4174  $100 DEPOSIT FOR $25! CALL KATHY­ fm feeling bad;  
Madeleva shuttle stop. Sept. 20. Cell284­ Call Cheryt x4392 (SMC)  2661.  The things you say  
5136.  don pEPPY pilger bob kEmPer have a  Have got me real mad;  
Need Miami tickets. Will trade South  !!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE  hEPPYday'  DONT LET GRAVITY GET YOU DOWN!  rm gelling funft¥ dreams again and  
LOST: Wooden Chain near the handi­ Carolina. Call John at the cave, 3467.  2822  Join the L-5 Society. We are dedicated to  agam;  
capped parking space in front of the Law  First there was a car, then there was a mi­ the development ol the final frontier;  I know what il means. but  
School. If found please call John Mauel at  MIAMI TIX-I NEED THREE STUD OR  Marc Ramirez-Madder Than Mad In ·94  croscope, now it is an R.A....CONIMO  SPACE. Come see a slide show, A Case  I can ·r explain;  
288-8057 or bring it to the Law School.  GA. DESPERATE-MONEY IS NO OB­ STRIKES AGAIN!  For Space. which tells how it can be done.  f think ifs love;  
JECT!! DA~ X4057  It will be shown at 7pm Monday, Sept. 24  I said to you that Ifeel blue;  
LOST: KEYS ON "NO" RING AT GATE  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  SOPHOMORES  in  the  Lafortune  Little  Theatre  by  Bull can ·r explain;  
10 ACC OR FITZ. 2ND FLOOR. CALL  NEED 2 OR 4 MIAMI GA·s, PLEASE  CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE  Make your contribution to the Class of  G.E.Canough. Admission FREE. See you  Yeah, hear what/ say, girl.  
TIM112543.  CALL TIMOAT287-8264  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  '8711 Submit a design idea for the official  there.  -ThaWho  
class !-shirt to Chris Britt, rm. 161 Dillon.  
FOUND-pendant with diamond call Steve at 2647-need description  Need 2 GA Air Force TIX. Cell Martha at 284-5120  Look out world here she come!i. 1racy Bolger is21.  The design should be in one color and irt­duda a back and front  HAVE YOU HUGGED YOUR CERENKOV COUNTER TODAY?  Evil lurks where you least expectit.  

The Observer 

Lester Flemons looks for an opening in the and Monohan were two ofthe manyIrish reserves who ltne, following a block by Tom Monohan. Flemons saw action in the lopsided victory over Colorado. 

In 190Q Johann Hurlinger ofAustria walked on his hands from Wenna to Paris in 55 daily 10-hour stints. covering a distance of 871 mites. 
Longest Walking-On-Hands 
AT&T long distance wins hands down when ncomes to Immediate credit for incomplete calls and wrong numbers. 
distance 




wtnners. 
Longest Bicycle Race 
The longest one-day "massed start" race is the 551-620 km (342-385 miles) Bordeaux-Paris event In 1981. Herman van Springe/ averaged 47186 kmlhr (2932 mph) covering 584.5 km (3624 miles) in 13 hr 35 min. 18 sec.. 
AT&T long distance lets the good times roll for you, too -with discounts of up to 60% every day. 

Nobody can match AT&T tor savings and service: 
• 
40% discounts evenings, 60% discounts nights and weekends. 

• 
Immediate credit tor Incomplete calls and wrong numbers. 

• 
Calls from anywhere to anywhere. anytime. 

• 
24-hour operator assistance. 

• 
Quality that sounds as close as next doo[ n·a a winning combination. Why settle tor less? 


Visit the display in The HammeS' ffotre Dame Book store. 
-
The more you hear the better we sound."" 


AT&T 


Monday, September 24, 1984-page 9 
Despite the ragged play, the only goal of the half was sharply ex­


Soccer 
ecuted. Richard Herdegen, Irish center forward, knifed through on a

continuedfrom page 12 
set play to nail a Steve Lowney cor­three Irish defenders and landed at ner kick into the back of the net. the feet of an unmarked Illlni Herdegen once again displayed his midfielder. Irish keeper Mark superior ability to head the ball, a Steranka was beaten cleanly to the skill that has accounted for many of left corner. the goals in his career. 
Notre Dame coach Dennis Grace Grace admitted that he was clearly frustrated by the Illinois susbstituted more often than usual goal. because the game with Indiana was 
"Every time we go up by two," only a day away. said Grace, "we lay back, make "I didn't want to have my starters mistakes, and then they score. It in there for 90 percent of the game, drives me nuts. I told the boys I'd playing at I00 percent, with a team rather just win 1-0." as awesome as Indiana only two days 
The second half wasn't much away," said the Irish coach. smoother than the first. The Irish The fact that many younger missed several chances early, in· players saw action may account for eluding a missed penalty kick by some of the shaky play, as they have Szanto, and the Illini only attacked to learn to adapt their own styles to on Irish defensive errors. those of their teammates. 

Coach runs onto field, tackles opposing player 
Associated Press apologizing to Connecticut Coach Tom jackson in the locker room. STORRS, Conn. -It apparently was The runner, tailback Greg Mor­
•
•

more than Darrell Coulter could rison, was awarded a 71-yard touch­.. bear. down. 
After two lopsided losses in previ· "I asked him (Coulter) about it ous weeks and down by a 3 5· 7 score and he had tears in his eyes," Phillips to host Connecticut, the former star said. "It was something he did in· 
quarterback and now assistant stinctively.lfhe could run it back in coach for Morgan State bolted onto his mind, he would erase it." the field Saturday and tackled a Con­Coulter wouldn't comment after necticut runner headed for a touch· the game. down. 
"I guess it was just something that The incident came late in the built up inside him," Morgan State game, the first meeting between the head Coach Jim Phillips said after two schools. 
S()iJIECOURSES IMPROVE SCORES­WE IMPROVES TUD ENTS ,TOO! BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOSTYOURSCOREI 
PREPARE FOR: 


LSAT 
*test-n-tape library 
*reinforcement test 
*homestudy packet 
CLASSES STARTING IN OCTOBER 
FOR YOUR PLANT NEEDS' 
,&,~t~s G~""Mon -Sat 12:30-5:3 
DIAL 283-4242 
A~DRAMATIC NEW CONCEP IN SUN TANNING! 
Preserve your tan with our NEW tanning bed 



TAN-HAWA1&N 
sun tonnrg solen 

_2n-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 


The Observer Monday, September 24, 1984-page 10 
all day and forced Colorado quarter­I::iacks Steve Vogel and Craig Keenan 




Improved 
to throw on the run. Vogel who averaged 313 yards per game enter­

continued from page 12 
ing the game, connected on only which ultimately resulted in two in­three of seven passes for 44 yards. terceptions and the low-yardage His replacement, Keenan, didn't fair total, in addition to a fumbled snap. much better completing only seven 
"The whole week in practice we passes and throwing two intercep­worked on disguising are pass tions. coverage," commented strong "We just outmanned their line," safety Joe Johnson. "Their offense said tackle Mike Gann. "I think that couldn't figure out what coverage since the second half of the MSU we were in. On that fumbled snap game things have really started to their quarterback had audibled four gel. Our confidence has grown each times because he was confused by game." our formation." The Irish offense accumulated 
Defensive coordinator Andy 351 yards on the Buffs with 229 Christoff utilized nickel defenses coming before the half. Steve Beuer­throughout the game to help dis­lein was hot before he sat down and guise the Irish coverage. gave backup Scott Grooms a chance. 
''We wanted to line up in one The sophomore connected on his formation and then use a different first nine passes and finished the one," said Christoff. "Throughout game completing 10 of 11 for 122 the game we tried to avoid lining up yards. in the same formation two plays in a Maybe the most important thing row." the offense did against CU was what 
The Irish defensive line pentrated they didn't do make mistakes. There 


Chicago clinches tie for ' L ~ NL East division title 
A8soclated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Gary Matthews drove in five runs with a double and a homer yesterday as the Chicago Cubs clinched a tie for the National League East championship, their first tide ofany kind in 39 years -wi an 8-1, 4-2 double-header sweep of the St. Louis Cardinals. 
In the first game, Matthews' three­run double sparked a six-run fourth inning and Steve Trout scattered seven St. Louis hits. 
The Cubs entered the twinbill with a five-game losing streak,. They can wrap up the tide Monday night against·the Pittsburgh Pirates behind their ace right-hander, Rick Sutcliffe. 
Matthews' homer sent Chicago off to a flying start in the second game against Joaquin Andujar, 19-14. Bob Dernier reached first on shortstop Ozzie Smith's throwing error before Matthews homered. 
Singles by Ron Cey, Steve Lake and Larry Bowa made it 3-0 in the fourth. 
In the Cards' fifth, Darrell Porter singled, David Green doubled and Andujar hit an RBI grounder. In the sixth, Smith doubled and Andy Van Slyke singled to cut the Cubs' lead to 3-2. But Chicago added a run in the eighth on Dernier's double and Ryne Sandberg's single. 
Dennis Eckersly, 9-8, allowed six hits in seven innings and Lee Smith recorded his 33rd save for the Cubs. 
The Cubs erupted in the fourth in­ning of the opener after Rick Ownbey, 0-3, walked Dernier and Sandberg with one on in the fourth and the score tied 1-1. Jeff Lahti replaced Ownbey and Matthews doubled. After Leon Durham walked, Keith Moreland singled in one run and Cey doubled in the final two in the inning. 
The Cubs added a run in the sixth on Durham's single and Moreland's double off Kevin Hagen. 

Game 
continuedfrompage 12 
The 55 points scored Saturday is the most scored by the Irish since the 1977 season's 69-14 victory over Georgia Tech. 
"I think our football team is get­ting better, but It's going to take a lot ofhard work," said Faust. "I think the second half against Michigan State carried over to the way we played today. Now it's just a process of trying to improve each week." 
Today Notre Dame starts prepar­ing for its nationally televised game on Saturday at Missouri with newly found success and perhaps, some more confidence. 
A's 5, Royals 1 
KANSAS CilY, Mo. -Rickey Hen­derson singled, doubled and slammed a two-run homer yester­day, carrying the Oakland A's to a 5-1 victory over Kansas City and drop­ping the Royals into a first-place tie with Minnesota in the American League West. 
The Twins, who entered the day a game behind Kansas City, beat Cleveland 5-1. California, which lost 2-1 in 10 innings to Texas, remained in third place, 1% games behind. 
Chris Codiroli held the Royals to four hits until Bill Caudill relieved him in the seventh and finished up for his 34th save. The loser was Mike Jones, 2-3. 
Henderson also stole his 60th base of the season and scored two runs. He left the game with a jammed finger he suffered stealing third base after doubling to lead off the game. He scored on a sacrifice fly byJoe Morgan. 
With one out in the second, Jim Essian walked, went to second on a fielder's choice and scored ahead of Henderson's 15th home run. 

Math, Physics, Chem. & En_s!neering Majors Could you use $24,000 CASH your last two years of college? 
Did you know that it is possible for you to sta. .rt a career in the Nuclear Engineering field while still in college? Ifyou are a student in good academic standing and have completed one year of calculus and physics, you may qualify for the Navy Nuclear Power Candidate Program. In addition, you could receive up to $25,000 cash in your junior and senior years just for going to school. After commissioning, you will receive over $24,000; and over $42,000 after four years as a commissioned officer. We operate 70% ofthe reactors in America and our nuclear trained officers are sought by other companies ... but we make it worthwhile to stay with us! 
For more information on the Navy's Nuclear Engineering $1000 per month salary and $24,000 bonus, call NAVY toll free 1·800·382·9782. 
Navy Representative will be on campus: 
OCTOBER 10&11 
at the Placement Office 
were no turnovers; that's right, no interceptions and no fumbles -just errorless execution.That's what the Irish are capable of. "We've put together six straight quarters of in­tense football," commented Irish tailback Allen Pinkett. "This after­noon it all came together. This is what we needed." 
Consistently good football: that is what Notre Dame is capable of and the players are finally realizing that. 
"The momentum carried through from last week's game against MSU. It's like a snowball effect, it just gets bigger and bigger," commented Johnson. "We're finally realizing how good we can be:" 
Colorado is not a Penn State or a Nebraska, but that's not important. Colorado gave the Irish the confi­dence they need to play a team like Miami. After playing two consistent halves offootball the Irish know that they are a good football team. Now they just have to prove it. 
Saturday's Game 
Colorado  0  0  7  7  - 14  
Notre Dame  21  17  14  3  - 55  
Scorlna  

ND -Pinken 1 run (Carney kick) 
ND -Pinkeu 4 run (Carney kick) 
ND-Jackson 9 pass from Beuerleln (Carney kick) 
ND -Jdlcrson ~ run (Carney kick) 
ND -Carney 40 FG 
ND -Brooks 9 run (Carney kick) 
ND-Pinken 13 run (Von Wylkick) 
ND-Jefferson 5 run (Chura kick) 
CU -Weatherspoon 6 run (Deline kick) 
ND -Cbura 21 FG 
CU-Wolf IOpassfrom Marsball (Deline ldck) 
CU NO First downs 16 22 Rushing auempt:s 39 55 Net Yards Rushing 71 212 Nd Yards Passing 164 139 Passes camp-attempted 13·25 12-14 Had intercepted 2 0 Total Net Yard5 235 ~51 Fumbles-lost ~-2 0·0 Prnaltlo·yards 2·10 6-~5 Punts-average 6-33 4·39 Io-.walLeaden 
RUSHING -Colorado' McCany 13·~ 7, Keenan 8·30; Weatherspoon 6-15; Smith 6-13; Dyson 2-8; Vogel 4-­32; Noue Dame, Pinkeu 13·67;Jdferson 12·4~; Brooks 5-32; Flemons 10-31; Smith 3-20; Monahan 2-17; deHueck 3-11; Starns 1-5; Machwlf 2-3: Carter 2-1; Beuerlein 1--6;Grooms 1··12; 
PASSING-Colorado' Keenan 7·15·2, 78; Vogcl3·7· 0,44; Marshali3-3-0, 42; Notre Dame: Bcuerlein 10-11· 0, 122; Grooms 2-3·0, 17; 
RECEMNG -Colorado' Wolf 5·65; Collins 2·33; Cross 2-17; Smidt 2-12; Embree: 1-19; Alexander 1-18; Notre Damc:jdfeC5on 3·40; Bavaro 3·37;jackson 2·24; Gray t-I-l; Brown 1-10; Ward 1·10; Cusak l-7; 
Anendancc -59,07~ 

ABRACADABRA! 
It's a anap with the claasllleds. 


NFL Standings 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Miami 
N.Y.Jets 

New England 
Indianapolis Bulfalo 
Piltsburgh Cleveland Houston Cincinnati 
L.A. Raiders 
Denver Xaulc San Diego Kansas City Washington 26, New England l 0 Atlanta 42, Houston 10 LA. Rams 24, Cincinnati 14 Cleveland 20, Pittsburgh I 0 New Orleans 34, St. Louis 24 N.Y. Jets 28. Bulhlo 26 Minnesota 29, Detroit 28 San Francisco 21, Philadelphia 9 Miami 44, Indianapolis 7 
East  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
4  0  01.000  128 48  DaJia.s  
3  I  0  .750  Ill  86  N.Y. Giants  
2  2  0  .500  76  94  St. Louis  
I  3  0  .250  89  122 Washington  
0  4  0  .000  67  107 Philadelphia  
Cenlral  
2  2  0  .500  84  88  ChJcago  
I  3  0  .250  51  87  Minnesota  
0  4  0  .000  59  132 Detroit  
0  4  0  .000  76  114 Green Bay  
West  Tampa Bay  
3  0  01.000  74  41  
3  I  0  .750  65  58  San Francisco  
3  I  0  .750  125 64  Atlanta  
2  I  0  .667  90  58  L.A. RallL~  
2  2  0  .500  84  92  New Orleans  
Sunday's Resul15  

N.Y. Giants 17, Tampa Bay 14 Dallas 20, Green Bay 6 Denver 21, Kansas City 0 Seattle 38, Chicago 9 
Monday's Games San Diego at l.A Raiders East 
w L T Pet. 
3 I 0 .750 I 0 .750 2 0 .500 
2 2 0 .500 I 3 0 .250 
Cenlral 3 I 0 .750 l l 0 .500 I ~ 0 .250 I 3 0 .250 I 3 0 .250 West 4 0 01.000 2 2 0 .500 l 2 0 .500 2 2 0 .500 
PF  PA  
70  64  
87  78  

118 98 104 96 72 92 
79 59 86 109 99 104 44 80 62 85 
118 87 
Ill 92 71 75 99 103 

...--------------~--------~------------------­

'JI['~~C3l~--------------------------------------•M__o_n_da_y_,_s_ep_t_e_m_b_e_r_2_4_,_1_9_8_4 P_a_g_e_l~l 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 


Campus 
f/H€/t1 ... 
"MISS lA(I(fl NVNDITl WISHeS 10 CONVCf HeR nJST 


•12 p.m. -Lecture, Congressman Henry Hyde ( R. 
IIJTI1r111Tr3 ftWN6S ON 111€: /0 rllflNNIVI:R5flf(Y Of1Hf 
Illinois), Response to Gov. Cuomo on the Subject 
11ME YOU STRUN& HER 
of Religion and Politics, Law School Lounge,
!Ntnfl{..f.fl, PAPIXPDIKINI 
Sponsored by Thomas). White Center on Law and 
UP YOUR fRIIW<NtTY F/.II&PO~t : 
Government. 
• 
12 . I p.m. -Organizational Meeting, O·C Hockey, ACC Ice Rink. •3:30 ·4:30p.m.-Computer Minicourse,JCL, 'lbird Session, CCMB, Available to the Public, Free. 

•3:30 
· 4:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Macintosh, First Session, Room I 04 CCMB, Call Betty ( 239·%04) to Register, Free. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Malaria in India:



Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds
Tank McNamara 
Epidemiology and Prospects of it's Control," Dr. V. 


P. Sharma, Malaria Research Centre, Delhi, India, Room 278 Galvin Life Sciences Center, Sponsored by Dept. of Biology. 
•6:30 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series I, "Welfare," Annenberg Auditorium. 

• 
7 p.m. -Notre Dame L-5 Society Meeting, Slide Show Presentation on Space Colinization, Little Theatre, LaFortune, Open to Public, Free. 

•8 
p.m.-Adopt-A-Transfer KickoffParty, Senior Alumni Club, No ID's Required. 

•8 
p.m. -Meeting, World Hunger Coalition, Meeting & Film, Room 124 Center for Social Con· cerns. 

•9:30 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series II, "Philadelphia Story," Annenbl·rg Auditorium. 



Psycho Chicken Suarez 

The Far Side Gary Larson 


TV Tonight 
-6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 6:30p.m. 16 M0 A0 S0 H 22 Family Feud 
7:00p.m. 16 TV Bloopers & Practical Jokes 22 Movie · Mistral's Daughter 28 Call To Glory 
8:00p.m. 16 Movie 28 Football · San Diego vs. L.A. Raiders 34 Evening at Pops 
9:00p.m. 34 Great Performances · I.aCiemenza di Tito 10:00 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News !0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 
22 Simon & Simon/McMillan ll:OOp.m. 28 Newswatch 28 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Movie· Now Voyager 12:00a.m. 28 Love Connection 12:30a.m. 16 Allin The Family l:OOa.m. 22 Nightwatch 

31 Beginners 47 Anoint old style 33 Cheshire -48 Ottoman 34 "-not what government 
your..." 49 Monkshood 36 Manhattan's 50 Horse 
buyer 51 -Bator 37 -Salvador 52 Dame Myra 40 Sesame for one 53 Defense pact 42 Eye expert acronym 44 Reveille man 54 Wagon 45 Everything 56 Thai language 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 28 Imbed 52 Netherlands 5 Kind of furnace 1 Boxing 32 Filmdom's 55 Spinner of 6 Smallest of a punches Sommer yarns litter Friday's Solution 5 Orchestra 
33 Transaction 57 Heb. month 7 -Arbor section initials 58 Dies-8 Comprehensive 10 -de foie gras 
34 Cleopatra's 59 Minimal 9 Dolphin coach 14 Skip suitor 60 Bristle 10 Sinning 15 Noontime 
35 Payable 61 -for 11 Zone activity 36 Painter Henri (summon) 12 Acerb 16 Epochal 
38 Rowing item 62 Irregularly 13 Choice word 17 Pundit 
39 Skillful notched 19 Pertaining to 18 Emcees 41 Ridge or leaf 63 Weight system nostrils 20 Consign 42 Palindromic 21 Numero­22 Mollify name 
24 Boring 23 .. _ 43 Shellac 25 Certain chests Misbehavin' " 44 Croissant 26 Escape by 
DOWN 

24 Papal 45 Yearns 1 lturbl cunning headdress 46 Hawaiian 2 "-for Ail 27 Toper 25 Platigorsky feasts Seasons" 29 Prophet 
Instrument 48 Asset 3 Gascons 30 Maternally 27 Brut relative 49 Funny 4 Aseptic related 

9/24/84 




~--------------------·--------------------~ 
[]§' S.A.B. Record Store 
servicing your music needs: -topes -albums -tickets 

in LaFortune Student Center 
Open: 10:00-4:00, Monday-Friday 

L---------------------·--------------------~ 
e  this week :  e  
:  DIRTY HARRY WEEK :  :  
:  at the Engineering Auditorium  :  
:  Tuesday-Dirty Harry  7:00, 9;00,11 :00, $1.00  :  
:  Wednesday-The Enforcer  7:00,9:00.11:00$1.00  :  
e  Thursday-Magnum Force  7:00,9.:15,11;30 $1.00  e  

• Fri&Sat-Sudden Impact 7:00.9:15,11~30 $1.00 e 
---~------~-..

--~ 
Monday, September 24, 1984-page 12




S~orts 
Notre Dame demolishes outmanned Colorado, 55-14 
By ED DOMANSKY "When things got out of hand our new record for points scored by·a punt. Six plays later,Jefferson bolted rushed for 35 yards on seven carries Sports Writer morale went down. Defense is Faust team in one half. five yards through the right side into and Tom Monahan dashed twice for largely morale and when things As the second half got under way, the endzone for his second touch­17 yards to set up the three pointer. 
The Notre Dame football team went bad early, it really took the it took the Irish just less than four down. Pat Chura's conversion in­That closed out the Notre Dame rolled over the Buffaloes of wind out ofour sails." minutes to add two more scores to creased the Irish lead to 52-0. scoring for the day. Colorado much like The Wave, in its Good field position also greatly their total. Colorado finally managed to light Colorado added its final points of initial appearance, rolled around aided Notre Dame throughout the Francisco's 80-yard return of the up its side of the scoreboard with the game with just over one minute Notre Dame Stadium. game. Six of nine scoring drives kickoffset up Pinkett's 13-yard burst less than four minutes to play in the remaining when the Buffaloes third 
The Irish were in need of only a started inside the Colorado 40-yard for his third touchdown ofthe game. third quarter. Fullback Anthony quarterback ofthe game, Derek Mar­win Saturday, but got much more line. This time Hal Von Wyl added the Weatherspoon finished off an 82-shall, hit tight end Troy Wolf on the than that, as they routed Colorado Kickoff returns of41 and 80 yards point after. yard Buffalo charge as he hulled his goal line. Dave De Line added the ex­55-14 and raised their record to 2-1. by Alonzo Jefferson and Hiawatha After the Notre Dame defense way six yards into the endzone. tra point which brought the score to 
Head coach Gerry Faust emptied Francisco, respectively, showed that pinned the Buffaloes deep in their The Irish countered with a 21-its final 55-14 margin. the bench on the Buffaloes, who even the specialty teams play a own end, the Irish took over at the yard Chura field goal on the first play 
see GAME, page 10didn't score until late in the third valuable role. Colorado 34-yard line following a ofthe fourth quarter. Lester Flemons quarter. Nearly everyone who "It used to be that teams used to suited up got a chance to play, as 82 be scared to come into Notre Dame of the 87 players who dressed saw Stadium and play," said tailback Al­action for the Irish. len Pinkett, "and we want to get that 

Faust said his team is playing bet­back." ter, which may have been the under­Notre Dame started its scare tac­statement of the day. tics early by scoring less than four 
"The offensive line did a pretty minutes into the game after recover­good job," said f\aust. "Pretty good" ing a Colorado fumble on the Buf­meant giving quarterback Steve falo's second play from scrimmage. Beuerlein time to complete his first Pinkett's <me-yard plunge five nine passes. Beuerlein played just plays later and John Carney's point slightly more than one quarter and after put the Irish on top 7-0. left after connecting on 10 of 11 Less than three minutes later, after tosses for 122 yards and one touch­ashort Colorado punt and a good down. mix of plays, Pinkett barrelled four 
"Everything clicked today," said yards over two tacklers around the Beuerlein. "You don't get days like left side for his second touchdown that very often." of the game. 
In fact, his throwing proficiency On its third possession, Notre was better than any before in Notre Dame scored again when Beuerlein Dame history. He set a new record hit MiltJackson in the endzone from for completion percentage (.909), nine yards away. The 73-yard drive breaking Rick Slager's 1976 mark of was to be the longest for the Irish .857 (12 of 14) set against against Colorado, as Notre Dame Northwestern. His nine straight benefitted from great field position completions fell just one short of all afternoon. tying Joe Montana and Angelo Ber­After a two-yard Jefferson run put telli's record of 10 consecutive com­Notre Dame up 28-0, Wally Kleine pletions set in 1978 and 1942, sacked Colorado quarterback Steve 
The Observer/Tom Bradley

respectively. Vogel on the first play after the kick­
In the rushing department, the off forcing a fumble. Greg Dingens Irish backs turned in a solid perfor­recovered the loose ball at the mance, picking up 212 yards. Colorado 23-yard line to set up a 40­
Certainly the offense looked yard Carney field goal. good, but the defense also looked With Craig Keenan in at quarter­extremely sharp. It held the Buf­back for Colorado, the Buffaloes faloes to just 22 total yards in the turned the ball over again. This time first half. For the game, Notre Dame Mike Haywood intercepted a surrendered 235 net yards, only 71 Keenan aerial at the Colorado 40­ofwhich came on the ground. yard line. Eight plays later fullback By MICHAEL FLANNERY Irish with a crisp header of Tom freshman John Fossella for an easy 
"We were emotionally ready," Mark Brooks pounded his way nine Sports Writer Daley's indirect kick. The score goal. said Colorado head coach Bill yards up the middle and the Irish came at 37:37 of the first half. The defensive breakdown McCartney. "We just were no match held a convincing 38-0 halftime Just seven minutes later, sweeper occured with just six minutes left in for them." lead. The Notre Dame soccer team ·Dom Driano found Pat Szanto streak­the first half. An lllini throw-in beat 
McCartney also made it clear that raised its record to 6-0-1 Friday ing in from his wing position for a see SOCCER, page 9the loss of tight end Ed Reinhardt, "I really thought we would be night with a 3-1 victory over Illinois. breakaway. Szanto unselfishly fed 

Alonzojefferson dives overfrom the three-yard ltne highestoutputofthe season. EdDomansky reviews the for the fourth Irish touchdown in Saturday's 55-14 game in his story above. rout of Colorado. jefferson rushed for 43 yards, his 
Illinois is victim 

Soccer team wins in sloppy game 
who is in a coma in a Oregon hospi­able to throw the ball," said Keenan. In an otherwise lackluster perfor­tal after suffering a head injury last "Overall, Notre Dame's defense is mance, the Irish converted three week, had no effect on his team's very tough. They are all tall up front flashes ofbrilliance into three goals. play. and they just keep coming at you." Unfortunately, a defensive lapse late 
"Today's game had nothing to do The Notre Dame offense capi­in the first half cost the team a with Ed Reinhardt's injury from an talized on six of its eight first-half shutout. emotional standpoint," he said. possessions en route to setting a Dave Miles scored first for the 
The Notre Dame soccer team lost to two-time defending national champion Indiana at Bloomington last night, 5-1. The Irish loss was their first ofthe season. 
The Irish took the lead in the first half after Richard Herdegen scored the first goal ofthe game. IU tied the score at halftime at 1-1. Indiana remained unbeaten, while Notre Dame's record dropped 
to 6-l-1. A full description ofthe game will appear in tomorrow's paper. 



Irish find consistency ·for first time in season 
ByJOE BRUNETII football. The S 5-14 score suggests Sports Writer that the game was a rout, but the stats indicate the type of football 
The Notre Dame football team has Notre Dame is capable ofplaying. An been a team of questioned identity. efficient offense, a tough defense Before Saturday's win over Colorado and errorless execution, true Irish­Notre Dame's play had been incon­style football. That's what the Irish sistent to say the least, but after are capable of and they proved it trouncing the Buffaloes, the Irish fi­against the Buffaloes. nally showed that they can play four Notre Dame's defense shut down quarters ofgood football. a high-powered Buffalo offense that 
True, Colorado isn't a Top 20 averaged 373 yards per game. At the team, but the Buffs aren't patsies like intermission Colorado had minus 22 their 0-3 record indicates. Entering yards rushing and only 22 yards total the game Colorado had a total of­offense. fense average of 373 yards per game The Irish secondary neutralized a compared to Notre Dame's 299.5. Colorado air attack that averaged Before Saturday's game Colorado 313 yards a game. The big improve­had lost their first two games by a ment in the secondary was partly total of 1 0 points. due to the ability of the defensive 
played a sticky defense, allowing the Buffaloes only Saturday Notre Dame was a fine­backs to disguise their coverages 
235 totalyards.joeBrunetti details theIrish improve· tuned machine that played two 
The Observer/Dan Bender 
see IMPROVED, page 10

ment in his story atright. halves of consistent, hard-nosed 






