Arms talks-page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 78 the independent stutll"nt nl·w~papcr ~l-r\·ing rmtn dame and ~aint mary·.., TUESDAY,JANUARY 31, 1984 
U.S. marine killed as Beirut rages on 
Associated Press 
sorry about any civilian casualties, but the bottom line is that we are BEIRUT, Lebanon -lJ.S. Marines taking frre from the area and we have 
battled Shiite Moslem militiamen to defend ourselves." 
yesterday with tank cannon, mortar Spokesmen for Amal, the main and machine-gun fire in a daylong Shiite militia group, and hospitals in series of clashes that killed one southern Beirut said Marine fire Marine. U.S. fire reportedly killed a killed three civilians, including the 9-year-old girl and two other girl, and wounded 22 people, civilians. including two schoolchildren and 
Three Marines and two school one militiaman. children were among 29 reported wounded during the three battles In the Shiite neighborhood of Hay that broke out at 9: I 0 a.m. and lasted el-Sellum, Amal fighters showed AP 
past nightfall. reporters a blue-green school bus 
The Mrrine spokesman, Maj. Den­with four large-caliber bullet holes nis Brooks, said one of two Marines in one side and fresh bloodon two of wounded in an afternoon clash died the 12 seats. The bus was carrying while waiting to be evacuated. The children from the Shiite Ahlieh other was flown by helicopter to the School in nearby Bourj ei-Barajneh amphibious assault ship Guam off when it was hit, the Amal militia said. the Beirut coast. 
Two Marines suffered slight in­Lebanon state radio said one of juries in midmorning clashes with
Lance Corp. joseph L. Swan, of Brentwood, NY, the two Marines injured in the after­stands guard with hisM-16 rifle at the entrance to tbe militia. They were treated and noon clash had been shot in the returned to duty, Brooks said. chest. Brooks refused to provide 
The Marine who died was the details or name any of the injured 259th American serviceman to die Marines. in combat in Lebanon since the Brooks said in an unrelated inci­
Beaux Arts Ball's roles restructured 
Marines were sent to Beirut in Sep­dent, a Marine guarding the US. Em­tember 1982. Brooks withheld his bassy in Beirut shot himself in the By MARK POTIER fined SI00 each for that offense. The students who are found to be in pos­name until his family is notified. A foot. He was treated at the American 
StaffReporter large number ofpeople at the dance session ofalcohol will be fined S l 00. Marine guard died in a bombing of University Hospital. was also a problem causing a fire The letter continues on to say "Ifthe the U.S. Embassy last April. 
This spring's Beaux Arts Ball will hazard and what Roemer called a above conditions are not met or if Brooks said in each of the clashes, Airport officials said four other be a lot different from last Novem­"near riot inside and outside." security advises the Dean of Stu­the Marines fired only after they Lebanese civilians suffered shrapnel ber's well-attended Ball. After November's affair, Roemer dents that alcohol was observed at were attacked. wounds in shelling that forced 
A move from its traditional home talked with Robert Amico, the chair­the Ball, then there will be no Beaux "We have no way of knowing suspension-of air traffic for two in the Architecture Building, ad­man of the Architecture Depart­what we hit, and what casualties hours in the morning and one hour 
see ARTS, page 4 
vance ticket sales only, and in­ment, and they agreed that future there were," Brooks said. "We are in the afternoon. 
creased security are a few changes Beaux Arts Balls would be forbid­that will be made for this spring's den. This decision was then given to event. Security and crowd control the American Institute ofArchitects problems, as well as the great (AlA), a group of architecture stu­
Furniture stolen from LaFortune 
popularity of the biannual event are dents who are responsible for the the major reasons for these changes. Ball. By STEVE GASTA maple chairs which cost $40 a piece have workers patrolling the campus, 
Initially the administration was The AlA subsequently submitted a News Staff have not been found. "I feel but Terry states it is hard for them to going to ban any further Beaux Arts set of proposed changes to Roemer whoever took the coach could not be everywhere at once. Balls because of security problems in an effort to change the decision. "Thou shall not steal" is a com­have gone far because they Gorch feels the same about the in November. Dean of Students After a change in the number of mandment Frank Gorch~ manager of (couches) are very heavy," ex­students employees who are on duty James Roemer said, "Security had a security personnel to be present was the LaFortune Student Center, plained Gorch. Although Gorch to watch LaFortune at night, and he series of seriou~ problems with the made, the administration agreed to wishes more Notre Dame students does not rule out the possibility of believes it was in the confusion of affair; they estimated that at least 50 allow a Beaux Arts Ball this spring. would live by. someone off campus using a vehicle closing that the items were taken. bottles of alcohol were taken into The changes include a new site for Several articles were stolen from to take the items, he is .confident the "We are presently trying to get a bet­the ball." the dance, probably LaFortune, no :he building Saturday night, includ­thieves were students. ter system of student security and a 
lbere were also problems with ticket selling at the door, and the .ng a grey couch, three maple chairs, Glenn Terry, director ofsecurity, better iocking up procedure," said people outside on the steps waiting presence ofat least three security of­.. purple easy chair, and a picture ofa is also certain the culprits were stu­Goreh. to get into the dance. Security ficers. The letter from Roemer to the rurine killed in action. dents. "Every once in awhile things Both men feel the objects could 
caught several people with open AlA also states there must be Although the purple easy chair arc taken by students, but I am confi­be returned quickly with the containers of alcohol outside and "effective publicity by Beaux Arts md the picture were recovered, the dent the articles will turn up even­
see THEFT, page 4
five students were subsequently about the no-alcohol policy." Any couch, valued at S300 and the three tually," said Terry. Security does 
~~----------~-­
Housing contracts due on Feb. 2 deadline 
By MARY HEILMANN set a deadline, and this year February News.'ilajJ 2 has been designated the final date for acceptance of the con­
The February 2 deadline for the tracts,"Heppen explained. return of housing contracts is According to Heppen, the pos­nearing, and those students who fail sibility of a housing lottery is to meet this deadline will face off­dependent upon how many cards campus housing next year, accord­arc returned. If the demand for on­ing to Father Michael Heppen, campus housing exceeds the director ofStudent Residences. available dormitory facilities, a lot­
tery may be deemed necessary. 
In an interview yesterday, Hep­However, Heppen could not ascer­pen stressed that no exceptions will tain the probability of a lottery, nor he made for students who still have would he say how such a lottery not returned their contracts in per­would be run. son by Thursday. Students are not "No lotteries have been necessary permitted to mail their contracts during my tenure with the Depart­due to the possibility of their being ment of Student lost in campus mail. Residences,"Heppen said. He added ' "It is our usual policy to request Stiff competition
that details of the lottery procedure 


contracts every year at ap­would be made available ifand when 
Democratic presidential hopeful Sen. john Glenn, nounces be will seek a second term as president in 
proximately this time. We have to a lottery occurs. 
D-Ohio, watches as President Ronald Reagan an-1984. 
' 
The Observer 
In Brief 
A pharmaceuticals heirwho pteaded no contest to criminal sexual conduct in an incident involving his stepdaughter was sentenct:d yt:sterday to be chemically "castrated" with a drug made by his family's company. Roger A. Gauntlett, 41, an heir to the llpjohn Co. fortune. was sentenced to one year in jail and ordered to undergo treatment with the controversial drug Depo·Provera for five years to diminish his sex drive. Defense and prosecution attor· neys said they would appeal the sentence. Kalamazoo County Cir· cuit Judge Robert L Borsos ordered Gauntlett to begin treatments within 30 days and said use of the drug, made by Upjohn, amounted to "castration by chemical." But tht: judge said the effects can be n·vt:rscd. -AP 
The American actor Anthony Perkins 
was in Yorkshire yesterday to shoot the television movie "The Glory Boys," after being charged wth smuggling marijuana and LSD into tht: country. Perkins, 51, was arrested Sunday at Heathrow Airport when ht: returned from Los Angeles, where he had gone during a brt:ak in filming the S2.H million movie for Independent Television. lie was released without bail and ordered to appear in court Thursday to face charges ofsmuggling eight grams of marijuana and three small doses of 14.,D. Perkins, star of the movies "Psycho" and "Psycho II," plays a British security agent assigned to look after an important Israeli professor played by Rod Steiger in the three-hour thriller. -AP 
The calculus professor from Purdue University Calumet who was shot Friday in his office, allegedly by a student angry about a "D" grade in his class, had a bullet removed from his left lung by doctors in Hammond yesterday. Meanwhile, the Lake County prosecutor filed an attempted murder charge yesterday with the Lake County clerk's office against Purdue Calumet student Joel 
G. Pittman, 26, of Gary in the shooting. Spokesman Lance S.Dodson ofSt. Margaret Hospital said Professor Ronald). Wagcnblast, 5 I, was in serious condition when he entered surgery late yesterday morn· ing. But, Dodson said, "The surgery was deemed successful by the physicians, and he seems to be doing well." -AP 
A Britt Airways twin-engine turboprop com· 
muter plane crashed in a ball of fire while taking off in fog and rain yesterday in Terre Haute, killing two pilots and an airline representa· tive aboard. The Swearingen Metro aircraft carried no commercial passengers. The airplane, which can scat up to 18 people, was being ferried to Evansville to be w~ed as a standby. The victims were iden· tified by state police as the pilot, Delbert Huffman, 64, of Terre Haute; copilot Gary Gerber, 55, ofEvansville, and Bryan Leahy, 25, of Evansville, an airline service representative. Huffman was a retired Air force colonel with more than 19,000 hours flying time. The cause of the crash was not immediately known, but witnesses reported that the plane "sounded sick" just before the 6:30 a.m. crash. -AP 
Of Interest 
Provost Timothy O'Meara met with the Faculty S<.·nat<.· last night. lk answered faculty questions about the Blue Cross-Blue Shield insurance program. faculty sabbaticals, and developments on the new teacher's manual. O'Meara just returned from a trip to the Orient to discuss the Notre Dame summer session in <:hina. Th<.· program is open to undergraduates, graduates, and !acuity memhns. Th<.· t·osl is 52600 including transportation from the West Coast, room and hoard annd travel in China. -The Oh· 
Weather 
Variable cloudiness and cold with a 4o per· 
cent chance oflight snow this afternoon. High in mid to upper 20s. A 
chant·c ofevt·ning tlurries; then it will clear tonight. Not so cold with 
low in upper teens. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow. High in 
uppn 30s. -AP 

The Observer ( l 'SPS 'i9l) 2--4000) b puhli,hnl ~tonday through t'riday and on home foot hail SaiU rdays, cxn:pt during exam and va..:ation pt:riods. The Observer;,puhli•ht·d hy tht· 'tud<"nl' of thr liniv t c:rsity of Notre Dame.· and Saint Mary's Colkgc. Suhst:ription' my ht· purcha..·d for SZ'i per yt·ar (S l'i pt•r '':mcstcr) hy writing The Observer, 1'.0. Box Q. Notre Dame. indiana -l6'i'i6. 
The Observer Is a mcmhcr ofThe As· soclated Pres..tt. All reproduction rights an· n·scrvt·d. 
Today's is..-;:uc: wa.s produ<.'t'd h}': 

Prf){/uction Consultant ........ Steve Foster Design I Editor ...................... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ................... Kim Tychscn 
lt()'OUI Staff...  .... Tina Widcrquist  
Frank DeMarco  
Sta(.·y Prunesti  
Sharon Markert  
John MenneII  
Typesetters ......  ..... Bill llighduchcck  
Mkhdle Fanw  

Neu•s Editor. .................. Dan McCullough CoPJ' Edilo.r ... ..... Te~s Guarino .\j}()rls Copy liditor..................)anc Healey Vieupoint Layout ........ Mike McCaughey NO Day Eel/tor ................... Mdinda Moore SMC Day Editor... ........... Mary Ann Potter Ad IJesign ................. Hill O'Brian Photographer.... ...................... Pete Laches TJ•plsts ........................ Sarah Hamilton 
Tuesday,January 31, 1984-page 2 

The quadrennial ritual 
More than a thousand members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community will descend on Stepan Center April 4. Crowded under the curved roof, they will spend hours cheering, chanting and listening to speeches. 
Aspringtime pep rally, perhaps? 
No, but a Notre Dame tradition, nonetheless -a 
tradition that has occurred only ten times in the past 44 
years. 

These students, faculty members, administrators and honored guests will meet with one goal in mind -to choose the Democratic candidate for the United States presidential election. 
While the final decision will not have much impact on the 1984 election as a whole, it will have a great and lasting impact on the people who participate. 
The Mock Convention has become a valuable and fascinating addition to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's education process since the event was started in 1940. The convention is one ofthe 
Margaret Fosmoe 

Managing Editor 
Inside 

rhetoric. With the majority of the student body from out ofstate, perhaps students lose much with the politi· cal process -to the point most don't even bother to vote absentee in their homestate elections. Perhaps stu· dents become too immersed in campus happenings and social concerns to recogize the importance ofthe dec· tion process. Maybe they are weary of annually voting for student representatives who are accorded little 
authority in the collegiate setting. 
Although it is called the "Mock" Convention, the results it produces arc very 
oldest in the country and remains one of the most realistic. 
The fact that it is a quad· rennial ritual makes it even more valuable. It also demands a fresh approach to each convention. "It has to be sold new every four years," says Convention Coordinator Tom O'Leary. "It is a tradition that no one knows about." 
It is an opportunity that should not be overlooked. 
The tentative platform for the April convention will be ready by early March, according to O'Leary. This is 

simply a preliminary step ­the platform will be debated, amended and voted on at the convention. Campus special interest groups will soon begin debating election issues in order to prepare prospective delegates for the event. All students will receive information about becoming a delegate through the mail in mid-February. 
The coordinators are planning as realistic a conven· tion as possible. Stepan will contain all the banners, bal· loons and hoopla that will pervade the Democratic Convention in San Francisco this summer. Each delegate will represent his or her actual homestatc. O'Leary's planning committee is working on getting at least one of the Democratic candidates to come to ND for the convention. The convention will continue until it reaches a consensus -even if that takes until 4:20 a.m., like it did in 1972 when Hubert Humphrey was nominated. 
Notre Dame, Indiana, often seems far removed from the bigtime world of campaign trails and political 


7 -9 p.m. in the Nazz. 
NOTE: * Maximum of 61.D.'s per person 
~......................................:.~~~~.~.~.~~!.~.:..~~.!::~~~~~...........................~ 


~ Castk SC\JLtJT\J~E~ 
272.0312 
IIOUIS: 
T...... WMI., S.L 1.10-1 JO Thura. 1~.30, f"rt 1.10-1.10 CtoMdMon COIIn*IIT 

Nail~
·­


Tips 
real for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Rather than simply trying to predict who the Democratic candidate will be, the convention is a chance to state the choice of the student body. The 1984 Democratic candidates arc a colorful crowd and should not be ignored. The Mock Convention allows students the time and setting to ex· amine candidates and issues -and to make plans for their personal decision in November. 
The issues are the essence ofthe convention. While the mock convention nominee 

will pull little weight in the national race, the decision students make on issues while participating will have far-reaching effects. By the final day of the convention, April 7, approximately a thousand student delegates will have produced a plat­form that represents the goals and ideals of the 1984 student body. 
There is virtually no other way to gain such an over· view ofthe current generation. No otherform ofgather· ing such information -even a referendum, a phone poll or personal interviews -could be as exciting or as accurate as the Mock Convention. 
Politicians and their campaigns are often cynically dismissed in the academic setting. The Mock Conven· tion provides the forum to scrutinize candidates and issues in an uncommon setting. Without the adherent biases oftelevision or newspapers to obscure the event, participants can view the presidential race in a fresh, and perhaps encouraging manner. 
~............................................................................................................. ***************** ~ 
i ATTENTIONJUNIORSt1 -~ 
:Buy : : •......•................................................................•..........•.......•...., : 
* ~ I Seating Reservations for E
! ~Observer i 
* I ~ JuniOR paR€nts' W€€k€nb 
: classifieds~ 

* ~ PR€Sib€nt's 01nn€R 
~ ~ ~ will beheld 
~ 
Tuesday, January 31
* ~ ~ 
Wednesday, February 1 
***************** 
Babies Don't Thrive in Smoke-filled Wombs 

We spec;allze In Sculptured Nallal Pamper 
yourself. Let one of our Designers give you the long nolla you have been dreaming 
When You're 
Pregnant, 

of. We'll also help your own oolla grow stronger. Bring thla ad and receive a free
Don't Smoke! 
bottle of Queen'a Castle Nail Polish with your set of oolla. ~ 

eu.tLe 
54533 Terrace Lane
.otCIAtn........ 
,_....23 

·~o•• 
cl1MPLETE 


The Observer Tuesday, january 31, 1984-page 3 

The Observer/Pete Laches
A cold lunch 

Studentsjoan Sch/ehuber and PaulAiello take advantage ofthe ACC's free skating hours while most students were eating lunch. The ACC rink is open Monday, Wednesday and Friday from noon until! p.m. Skate rental is one dollar. 
Saint Mary's Board reviews coming events 
By FRANK LIPO 
News Staff 
The need for a Sunday mass at LeMans Hall was among the topics discussed at last night's Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance meeting. 
Student Body President Elaine H<~ctor also announced upcoming Student Government sponsored events. 
i\ post-Keenan Review party will be held this Friday from I l p.m. to 3 
a.m. in the Haggar College ('..enter. Student Government elections are scheduled Feb. 9 from 7 am. to 6 
p.m.. also in the Haggar Center. These ekctions have in the past been hdd in the dining hall. In other news, a new copy machine is now at the Haggar Center through the ef­forts of Student Government. The traditional "Little Sibling Weekend" is scheduled for Apri16-7. The Board will discuss this event at a future meeting. 

Saint Mary's Student Government is sponsoring a lecture by humorist Fran Lebowitz at 8 p.m., Feb. 7 at Carroll Hall. Lebowitz is the author of two best-selling books and is cur­rently a columnist for Mademoiselle magazine. The lecture is free to the public. 
The Board also discussed the pos­sibility of a Sunday mass at LeMans Hall. Although there are ap­proximately 500 residents of LeMans, they can only attend masses at Regina or Holy Cross. Of the 313 students surveyed by the Board, 253 or 81/, would prefer a mass at LeMans. The obstacles to a Lemans mass are poor acoustics in the chapel there as well as an awkward physical layout. Solutions such as remodeling or moving a Sunday mass from Regina to Stapleton Lounge in LeMans were discussed. This issue will be looked at again before any proposals are made. 

ENGINEER~ 
February 14 

SUNDSTRAND ON CAMPUS 
Sundstrand, a leading high technology company, is involved in the design, manufacture and sale of advanced electrical and mechanical aerospace systems for commercial and military jet aircraft as well as missiles and space applications. 
Sundstrand is a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Rockford, Illinois with annual sales over $960 million. We have manufacturing and service locations worldwide and use state-of-the-art technologies to design, manufacture and deliver our products. 
We offer a competitive salary, a solid benefit package including health and dental, an educational reimbursement program and a liberal holiday schedule. Investigate the engineering opportunities for you, the college-degreed professional. 
Sundstrand Corporation ~ 4747 Harrison Avefltf~-· 
SUNDSTRAMI 

P.O. Box 7002 ~ Rockford, IL 61125 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. negotiator Rowny anticipates arins talks with Soviets very soon 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -U.S. negotiator Edward Rowny said yesterday the 
United States would consider any serious Soviet proposals, including curbs on new U.S. nuclear missiles in Europe, in an effort to work out a strategic arms control agreement. 
After a half-hour meeting with President Reagan, Rowny told reporters he has a number ofU.S. ap­proaches or "trade-ofiS" to present if the Soviets agree to resume discus­
sions in Geneva, Switzerland. 

"It's in their interest to come back," Rowny said. "We are now in a position, when we return to the table, to make a breakthrough." 
Negotiations to curb medium­range missiles in Europe and separate talks on controlling inter­continental nuclear weapons are stalemated. The Soviets disrupted both discussions to protest installa­tion of U.S. Pershing 2 missiles in West Germany and cruise missiles in Britain. 
"We have some concrete proposals on trade-ofiS," Rowny said. 
Rowny was unwilling to predict whether the Soviets would agree to ftx a date for another round of the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks. 
"There are all kinds of signals coming out," said Rowny, who heads the li.S. delegation to the START talks. 
Rowny said Reagan agreed a settlement might be based on trim­ming the ll.S. lead in some weapons ifthe Soviets gave ground on others. 
For instance, the U.S. negotiator said, "we believe our advantages in bombers and cruise missiles can be traded offfor their advantages in bal­listic missiles." 
In the past, tli'e United States has resisted Soviet efforts to include European-based missiles in the START discussions. But Rowny said that "if the Soviets say they want to talk and they begin bringing up other issues, we're going to listen to any proposal they have." 
The White House meeting followed Reagan's announcement Sunday night that he was seeking re­election. Rowny denied there was a political motive in the timing of Reagan's focus on arms-reduction talks. 
In another development, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said 
U.S. nuclear tests will be announced only when they are considered "significant." 
He said the criteria were the im­portance ofthe test and the effect on the area surrouding the Nevada test site near Las Vegas. 
A White House official, who spoke only on condition that he not be identified, said the decision was based on "growing concern over site security, heightened by partially successful attempts by anti-nuclear 
groups to penetrate the test site." 
Soviet-American agreements per­mit only underground nuclear tests and limit them to I 50 kilotons. For several years. U.S. tests were dis­closed to the public. 
Until now, the R:agan administra­tion has refrained from making new proposals aimed at wooing the Soviets back to Geneva. But, in a statement, Rowny said Reagan agreed that "we are now in a posi­tion, when we return to the table..." 
Critics of the U.S. strategy of keeping the European missile talks separate from those on intercon­tinental weapons say that merging the two sets of negotiations and put­ting all issues on the table at once could improve prospects for a trade­off. 
Three arms control experts, two Americans and one West German, said at a news conference yesterday the medium-range and strategic arms talks should have been merged in the first place. 
Paul Warnke, chief U.S. negotiator of the SALT II treaty, said the medium-range talks "were always on the respirator and once the NATO deployment began, the plug was pulled." 
William Hyland, former deputy as­sistant national security adviser to President Ford, said separation of the talks "was a mistake." 

The Observer/Pete Laches 
Notre Dame Student Body Vice-President Peggy with herfellow studentSenate members at last night's Prevoznik is shown above discussing topical issues meeting. See Carol Camp's story below. 
Student Senate gives go ahead to resolution granting academic credit 
By CAROL CAMP 
Senior Staff Reporter 

A resolution granting academic credit for Student Government and Student Union members was passed at last night'~ Student Senate meeting. 
The proposal, which is subject to the approval of administration offi­cials. did not specify who should receive credit or how many hours of credit would be awarded. Senators merely concurred that students in­volved in Student Government and Student Union should receive some 
type of non-financial compensation 
for their efforts. 

In addition, the Senate adopted an official policy concerning the usc of alcohol on campus. A committee comprised of Student Body Presi­dent Brian Callaghan, Vice President Peggy Prevoznik, and Senators Ouis Tayback, Rob Bertino, Suzy Joyce. Mike Flint, andJim Slatt t cry created a policy calling for: 
Endorsement of the HPC plan which would reprimand the alcohol abuser on an individual basis. 
Ensuring that previously adopted guidelines for food and other non­alcoholic items at parties would be uniformly enforced in all dorms on campus. 
Increasing student activity fees and hall taxes in order to provide Student Union and individual hall councils with additional revenue for planning functions which provide alternatives to drinking. 
In effect, the Senate proposal em­phasizes stricter enforcement of the 

Observer 
CLASSIFIEDS 
rules which presently govern al­cohol use. Callaghan noted the policy "is not earth-shattering, but it does propose some changes; name­ly, to enforce the existing rules." 
He added, "Once the public report comes out, we can key in on specific areas -this is more theoreti­cal." 
The Senate policy will be presented at the Board of Trustees meeting in Key Biscayne February 9­10 and to the Committee on Alcohol Awareness prior to the release of its final report. 
BUY 

The Observer Tuesday,January 31, 1984-page 4 
U .S.-Iranian exchange tops $1 billion mark 

Twelve concrete sbrubbety tubs, three feet in diameter, arepositionedoutside theAmerican embas­sy in London as an extra precaution against suicide bomb attacks similar to the one at the American Em­bassy in Beirut lastAf!rll. 
Reagan planning active campaign, looking forward to debating Dems 
Associated Press 

WASHIN<;TON-Trade between 
the United States and Iran, recently 
condemned by the Reagan ad­
ministration as a sponsor of ter­
rorism, toppt:d $1 billion in 1983, at 
least douhll' the pn:vious year. 

But two-way trade is still less than 
mH:-fifth of the levd in 197H, the 
)Tar bdilrt· the lslamk-revolution 
rt·plac.:ed the Shah of Iran with 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. And 
most of rhe tradt· involves li.S. oil 
purchases on the Sp<>t market, and 
thus is not direct bt·tween the two 
nations. 

Before tht· revolurion, the llnited States shipped arms and machinery to the shah's government while Iranian tankers loaded with oil, caviar and intricate rugs arrived on American shores. 
In 1978, trade soared to S6.6 bil­lion, with rhe United States selling S 3. 7 hillion worth of goods, more than to any other nation outside Western Europe and Japan. 
Those commercial lies ended abruptly when Khomeini came to power, expropriated American companies and later seized the U.S. embassy in Tehran. Former Presi­dent Jimmy Carter imposed restric­tions on trade, but the trade embargo was lifted in January 1981 as part of agreement releasing the American hostages. 
Even so, trade betwet·n the two countries was so low in 198I the Commerce Department didn't bother to keep figurt·s. 
Since then, there's hecn a modest upswing, and officials say the figures may underestimate the actual trade ht·caust· many dealings arc probably done through third parties. 
"Tht-rt· may bt· more trade, hut it dot·sn't show up in the statistics," 
Arts 

continuedfrom page 1 
Arts Halls in the future." 

Both tht· administration and the AlA sct·m to he happy about the propost·d solution. Roemer said "I think it (the proposal) was a good solution." Dan Rac.:htenwald, a senior an:hitccture studt·nt who is vict·-president of the AlA, said,"We'rc pretty much in agrcc­mt·nt with the administration on the proposal." 
Rachtcnwald added the "proposal to move the dann· was made last year but we decidt·d to try to hold it in the Architecture Building one more yt·ar hct·ause it has been tradi­tionally hdd thert•." Tht· proposal to movt· was made last year bt·caust· tht· Architecture Building couldn't hold the large numbers of people at tht· dance. Roemer hopes the changt· in location will hdp lessen the ak-ohol problem in that it will "break the tradition ofpeople taking alcohol into the dance." by changing 
Theft 
continuedfrom page 1 

cooperation of the hall rectors. "If public notice is given and ret·tors or rectoresscs spread the word to the hall staff to keep an eye out for the items it would really help," said Gorch. Terry and Gon:h both agree that Notre Dame is not a p<>lice state and a room -to-room search is out ofthe <IUt:stion. 
Terry believes adding a few more security guards would not really help the problem ofstudent theft. "If each studt·nt had a more respectful and responsible attitude toward obeying the law there would be no nt·ed for more security," he said. 
Gorch feels since most of the ob­jects in Lafortune were gifts to the University, the students should have mort· appreciation for them. 
said Kathleen Keirn, 1 specialist on 
Iran at the G>mmerce Department. 
If for example, a U.S. company sold 
machinery to a broker in West Ger­
many, who in turn sold it to Iran, the 
export transaction would be 
recorded between the United States 
and West Germany. 

Exports to Iran are still small. amounting to $170 million from January through November 1':183. That compares with Sl0 I million in 19H2. The exports were primarily machinery parts for motor vehicles, aircraft and oil exploration. 
Imports from Iran to the United 
States totaled S I billion for the first 
I I months of 1983, more than 
double the 19H2 level of S461 mil­
lion. Ninety percent was oil and spe­
cial petroleum products. 
A State Department official, speaking anonymously, said there are no legal contracts between American companies and Iran for oil because the Iranians have barred them. So, all of the oil is bought through traders on the spot market. 
Iran, the official said, barters oil with countries other than the United States, and that oil often ends up on the free marker where it might be bought by an American firm at a good price. 
The Reagan administration in­tends to make it even harder to do business with Iran. On )an. 23, the administration branded Iran as a country that exports terrorism and imposed tighter export controls. 
Iran joins Syria, Cuba, Libya and South Yemen on the list of terrorist countries. 
Joe Reap, a State Department offi­cial, said the decision was "based on an accumulation of evidence, including but not limited to the bombings in Lebanon." 
the dance and people's attitudes towards it. 
''Advance ticket sales is a control measure" according to Roemer be­cause it will allow the number of people at the dance to be more closely controlled. Rachtenwald also likes the idea, saying it 'is 'the ht:st way to prepare for the dance because the AlA will then know how many people to expcn for the dance. 
The AlA proposed that some form of security be present at the dance because it didn't feel students could properly enforce the alcohol rule. Roemer agrees with this and he sug­gested that three security guards be used instead ofthe two that the AlA's proposal called for. Two of the guards will be inside the dance to make surt• alcohol is not smuggled into the affair. 
Rachtcnwald said the AlA is going to ht· "prepared to handle whatever happens" at this spring's Ball. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON President Reagan is planning an active cam­paign outside the Rose Garden this spring, although he faces no opposi­tion for his party's presidential nomination, and he said yesterday he favors a debate with his Democratic opponent . 
Reagan, who will battle for many of the same labor votes that helped him win the 1980 election, argued his tax cut program benefited a wider range of Americans than did an extensive tax reduction offered by President John F. Kennedy 22 years ago. 
"Our tax program was fair," said Reagan. "It was fair across the board." 
With Sunday's formal announce­ment of his candidacy behind him, Reagan began a busy schedule that includes several trips out of Wash­ington each month and speeches in the capital. 
Yesterday, the audience was the National Religious Broadcasters' convention. Today he will fly to Chicago for a I0-minute speech to a convention ofthe sand and gravel in­dustf)'. 
Asked yes~erday whether he 
FREE  Beautiful Oak  
Dry Erase Board  Framed Bulletin  
Owith purchase of ak Bulletin fJoard (corkJ  Boards  
c­ 

18" x 24" plus Free Dry Erase Board ... $9.48 24" x 12" plus Free Dry Erase Board ... $14.71 36" x 48" plus Free Dry Erase Board ... $25.94 
Bring in a NO· SMC J.D. and get 1 dozen Bic Pens for $1.00 
(limit one dozen) 
We carry a full line of Office and School Supplies 
%mile North 
of State Line 
2830 U.S. 33 South 
OF!ICE 
~ART 
684-7690 
would debate his Democratic op­ponent, when nominated, Reagan replied: "In principle, I support debates. J favor that idea." 
Edward J Rollins, director of the Reagan campaign organization, said, "Today if the election were held, it would be far more of a rout than it was in 1980." 
He said Reagan's longtime politi­cal advisers "could not find four states in the country in which we are trailing." He said an election now would show Reagan winning 45 or 46 states with 55 percent to 57 per­cent of the vote. 
The Reagan campaign organiza­tion has 140 fulltime employes on its staff, I00 state chairmen :md co­chairmen in place, and two stories of rented space in an office building at the foot ofCapitol HilL 
It includes several former White House staff members, beginning with Rollins, the president's former 
political  adviser,  and  Rollins'  
deputy, Lee Atwater.  
Michael  K. Deaver,  the deputy  

chief of the White House staff and one of Reagan's closest advisers, said Reagan will seek to appeal to blue­collar workers, who proved to be a 
key clement in his landslide elec­
toral victOf)' in 1980. 

Deaver and other Reagan aides are 
quick to express their admiration for 
the support former Vice President 
Walter F. Mondale is getting from 
the AFL-CIO, as well as for the highly 
charged state of his campaign or­
ganization. 

"With that organization and a full­
time committment (from organized 
labor), we have a lot to be cvn­
cerned about," said Jim Lake, 
spokesman for the Reagan-Bush '84 
re-election committee. "Mondale's 
very tough and he's also very carel;.JI. 
He doesn't make mistakes. 
The Reagan campaign won't send the president to the Iowa and New Hampshire primaries as a lone voice against the Democrats. He will studiously avoid the sites ofbattle in the Democrats' campaign, sending surrogate campaigners to respond to the charges. 
A major share of the Reagan or­ganization's S26 million primaf)· campaign budget will go to voter registration projects, which Lake said would be "very critk·al to Ronald Reagan's re-election." 

Every Tuesday Night 
1/21b. steamed shrimp & pitcher of beer or carafe of wine 

$6.95 
5-9pm 

• J;_ ..c-c. 
The Observer Tuesday,]anuary 31, 1984 -page 5 
Arabs give Jackson $100,000 gift 

Associated Press Bustamante said when asked about asking for donations for the founda­
Jackson's knowledge of the gift to tion to help with drought relief in 
WASHINGTON -An organiza­PUSH-ExceL Africa and for PUSH-Excel. He said tion headed by the Rev. Jesse Jack­Jackson has been an official of jackson had m1 role in the solicita­son received a $100,000 PUSH-Excel from its beginnings. tion. contribution from the Arab League, The attorney, who is general Bustamante admitted Jackson en­the second $100,000 donation from counsel of the foundation and couraged him to set up the 
the league to a group connected Operation PUSH. said none of the foundation to gather contributions 
with the Democratic presidential money from any of the PUSH groups to fund Jackson's work. Much of the candidate, a spokesman said Mon­has gone to Jackson's presidential foundation's money -just how day. campaign. much Bustamante could not say ­
John Bustamante, Jackson's per­The contributions to the groups has gone to PUSH groups in various sonal attorney, told reporters that connected with Jackson have grants. PUSH for Excellence Inc. got the caused controvetsy. especially with Before becoming a Democratic 
money in 1981 or 1982 from Clovis Jewish groups who say Jackson is presidential candidate in November, Maksoud, the Arab League's per­too dependent on money from Arab Jackson was president of Operation manent observer at the United Na­donors. Bustamante rejected such PUSH (People United to Sen•e tions. criticism, saying it "perpetuates eth­Humanity), the Chicago-based civil 
"The Arab League did make a·gift nic defamation." rights group that served as the cor­of $100,000 to PUSH-Excel," Bus­"The foundation has received nerstone ofJackson's work. tamante said. "It was a perfectly many unrestricted gifts from Arabs, legitimate, legal gift." Jews, blacks and others," he said. PUSH-Excel was founded by Jack­
Bustamante attacked The Neu• "The New York Times sought to son in 1977 to run programs aimed York Times and other media or­malign the foundation and defame at improving education in many ganizations for singling out the con­some ofits donors." schools, particularly inner-city tributions from the Arab League, an Bustamante said the two public schools. jackson has been official group of Arab governments, $100,000 gifts came after the variously described as its unpaid 
as unfair, un-American and foundation sent a letter to all the am­chairman and as its unpaid presi­defamatory. The Times reported. bassadors on the "Diplomatic List" dent. Sunday that the PUSH foundation received a li 100,000 donation from the Arab League in 1981. 
Black-white apartment 
"It is part ofan organized attempt to make Arab gifts seem different and unacceptable compared with 
switch not a headache 
right here that will stop any bull," he said, pointing to a shotgun propped against the wall by his bed. 
Until last month, the housing authority operated 52 apartments for whites in a predominantly white area of town and 52 apartments for blacks in a predominantly black area. 
Officials said they didn't segregate by policy, but that applicants always chose to live with their own race. 
But two black families filed suit in 1980 claiming they were denied housing because of the segregation. They won and U.S. District Judge William Wayne Justice of Tyler or­dered the apartment swap. He also ordered the housing authority to maintain a 50-SO racial balance in both cemplexes. 
Many white residents, however, found new homes rather than trans­fer to the formerly black housing project. 
As of last week, the formerly all­white complex had 26 white households, 24 black, one Mexican­American and one vacancy, Caviness said. 
The formerly all-black complex had 29 black families, 10 white and 13 vacancies. 
Caviness said she doubts she will ever be able to meet the court­ordered racial balance. 
"It was the hardest thing I've ever done," said Carrie Middleton, 77, one ofthe black residents ordered to 
move. 

GET YOUR CAREER OFF 
TO A FLYING START. 
If you've ever wanted to be at the controls of a piece of machinery that can hover over a dime, rise straight up. do fantastic things with power and air and pitch and aerodynamics, you belong at the controls of an Army helicopter. 
The Army has openings now in its Warrant Officer Flight Training program. To qualify, you must have a high school diploma, and we prefer 2 years of college. 
Prior to entering helicopter flight training, you must successfully complete basic training and pre-flight training. 
When you've completed the course successfully, you'll be wearing the wings of an Army Warrant Officer. 
For more information, call the Army Recruiter near you. SGT Jones 234·4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU 
CAN BE. 

other gifts," he said. 
APPhoto 
Bustamante said the second Arab 
Associated Press League contribution turned up
20/20 vision 
This electronic eye can accurately guide the U.S. Navy's Trident 
when Jackson asked him to review CLARKSVILLE, Texas -There
missle by sighting on a star to determine precise location during 
the records of several of the PUSH was anger and frustration when a
flight. The charge-coupled imaging is the heartofa TV camera on a 
groups. 
federal judge ordered some whites
microchip. 
"I don't think he knew about it," and blacks in public housing here to switch apartments. But six weeks later the mostly elderly residents are settled down -and many say
Meteorologist explains bad winter 
they're getting along well with their new neighbors.
ByJAMESJANSEN December the average temperature to the jet steam bringing Arctic air Rosemary Caviness, crossing her News Staff was 18 degrees and the average across Siberia and Canada into the fingers, said a sense of calm accep­
snowfall was 35.6 inches. United States," Arnold continued. 
tance and even racial harmony. hasSouth Bend weather has never Lake Michigan plays a significant "This particular trajectory normally settled over the two projects in thisbeen anything to write home about. role in South Bend's weather, Arnold means cold weather. Now it has small East Texas town.
But according to National Weather continued. Depending on wind moved to the East hopefully result­Caviness, the housing authorityService specialist Tom Arnold, direction much of the precipitation ing in a general warming trend." 
director, had the task ofimplement­things are noticeably different than for this area is due to the lake effect. Precipitation bands are sharper in ing the order that 26 tenants of anlast winter. The relative difference in tem­winter with the result being heavy all-black housing complex trade"What we have seen this past year perature between Lake Michigan snowfall in comparison to light sum­apartments by Dec. 15 with 26in regard to temperatures was a and the atmosphere causes this mer rains. "We recieve twice as tenants from a complex in the white comptete reversal of last year," Ar­phenomenon, he explained. much snowfall as Indianapolis due section Qftown. ,,.,
nold said. to both Lake Michigan and common "So far, it has gone real well. IIn December of 1982, the average The month of December, 1983 Northwest winds," added Channel think it's going to work," she told theair temperature was 39 degrees with will go into the record books as the 22 weekend meteorologist Tom Dallas Morning News.
2.5 inches of snow while this past coldest ever. "This was largely due Abell. 
Doris Holder was the first white to 
~~~ ~~~~·
... 
move into the formerly all-black r For sale: "Ski Michigan t complex. She said after a few weeks t Coupon Book" t of feeling terrified, she now feels 
t 
more at ease. 
··good for 65 free lift tickets, "The neighborhood is all right. It's 

t
equipment rentals and area passes 

mostly just living alone that botherstin Michigan including Royal Valley t me," she said. "I do get out some, and 24 more. 
and nobody has ever bothered me 
Send $12.95 to Ski Michigan, t over here." 24683 Stanford, Dearborn Hts. 
f 
"I've met some colored people' t
a Michigan, 48125 or call: 
around here and we get along fine," ' (313) 277-7769 t said Lynn Davidson, who moved in­aAlso ski enthusiast or organiza-t to the formerly all-black apartments. 
' tion wanted as local distributor. 
L 
"They know I won't put up with Good profit margin! _J any nonsense. I've got something 
~~~~~~~ 


r--··••-·•-• 6.50 Savings•••••-••-•••-. 1 W4tJKniglfts nftlttO!astlt j 
,'\ II I
1 
minutes from campus 1 
I I I 
Hair Cut Shampoo Blow Dry & Condition 
, 54538 T•rr•c• L•n•, 'So•tll hM(Acron troril Reg. $15·00 
\· /lllartln'a on S.R. Z3) 
I I Now $8·50 with coupon 
I 
II T,W B:30-5:30 offeronlyappliestom¥~~11:· rl I Th 8:30-8:30 I I Fr 8:30-6:00 1 I S 8:30-2:30 I
I Closed Mon 277 ·1691 272·0312 I L..-•••••••••••••6.50 Savings•••••••••••••...-~ 
The ND Student Players 
will be holding 
AUDITIONS 
for 


ctamelot 
on 
Wednesday, Feb. 1, at 7:00p.m. in Washington Hall and on Thursday, Feb. 2, ~Op.m. in the Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, SMC 
For actors, singers, and dancers No Experience Necessary 


Tuesday,January 31, 1984-page 6
Vieweoint 
Housing contracts: signing away alcohol? 
Notre Dame students who plan to live on campus next year must return their housing contracts to the Office ofStudent Residences by Thursday. 
Because the University guarantees housing for all incoming freshman, the housing office must know how many current students plan to live in the dorms next year. Only then can thl·y decide whether there is enough space, and what steps they should take if more space is needed. 
Usually panic sets in around February and March when students request more housing than the University can provide. Talk of off-campus lotteries has become almost as much a part of spring as Bookstore Basketball and An Tostal. But this spring may be different. 
Ever since rumors ofa dry campus began to circulate, many students have considered moving off-campus. But many are in limbo, knowing that the University wants to do something next year, though no one is quite sure what. 
The executive committee of the Board of Trustees will review the commission's report later this February. According to Father Beauchamp, they could take several actions -give their approval, tell the commission to start over again, leave the matter to the discretion of administrators or wait for the entire Board ofTrustees to consider the mat­ter. 
But once again students have been put in an unfair position. To get a spot on campus next semester they must sign a contract and put S200 on the line. Those who plan to be resident assistants must swear allegiance to a policy which hasn't been formulated yet. 
To be fair to those who have submitted contracts, the University should eitherdelay implementation ofthe policy, or better, allow students to move off-campus without having to pay the S200 penalty. 

Parental guilt and computer commercials 
"For the first time in his life. he's strug· As commercials go, this was about as low as children who come home from school and TV set. Time was when television was going to gling." So began a recent commercial for com· they get. It preys on parental guilt and the fear find no adult there -or, almost worse, an be the Great Teacher, when kid'i would be puters that proves nothing about the efficacy that the future will belong to those who are, as adult so fagged out by a day at the office that taught by it in the classroom and they would >f computers and everything about the bad the expression goes, computer literate -he or she could just as well not be there. return home to even more instruction. In­surely a contradiction in terms. What is most interesting about the com­stead, they come home to soap operas; now a As if to prove what happens, there was yet mercial about the struggling kid is that neither whole generation of kids know all there is to
Richard Cohen another commercial about a young man who when he stands perplexed before the black· know about adultery -and little else. 
The Cohen column 
taste of tht: advertising industry. 
The "he" is a hoy ofcosmic cuteness, stand­ing pc:rplexed before a blackboard doing math prohlems. lie: is looking downtrodden, glum, which, as far as I'm concc.·rned, is the ap· propriate demeanor for math, and we are told what we can easily see: lie is having a hard time.· at it. 
The rt:mcdy? A computt:r, of course. He gc.·ts one and nc.·xt we see a chortling, happy, wdl-adjustc.·d kid, clearly on his way to succ.-ess in math and c.·verything else. He sits hdore a computer screen just rejoicing in how much fun awful arithmetic can be. The message.·? If you low your kid, you will get him or ht:r a computt:r. 
prematurely returns from college, a flunk-out because he knew nothing about computers. He comes home by train, proving his ig­norance is boundless. 
The advertisers, as usual, have their fingers on the pulse ofthe public. Anxiety about com· puters turns up in just about every public­opinion poll or, for that matter, any conversation with a cab driver. 
A Louis Harris poll, for instance, shows great apprehension about both computers and their adjunct, the robot. At the same time that the public welcomes these innovations, it recognizes that they mean a loss of jobs ­some of them forever. 
But if a columnist is enticled to a guess, there is another kind of anxiety fueling the computer boom and it has little to do with jo~s. That anxiety is the one parents have for board nor when he sits before the computer is there an adult around -neither a parent nor a teacher. The kid is "struggling" in a world bereft of adults, a world in which adults are either too expensive (school) or too busy 
(home) to take time with him. 
This computer then is nothing less than a baby-sitter cum tutor. It is an electronic pacifier that will help junior with his homework when both parents are either at work or too fatigued when at home to grapple with their child's homework. The anxiety that the computer alleviates has only partly to do with a child's learningdifficulties. It also has to do with the trouble working parents have in finding time to deal with their child's dif­ficulty. 
If that is the case, then the computer will tum out to be nothing more than a gussied up 

A computer will not teach adultery, but there is little rea<;Qn to think that by itself it will teach motivation or discipline. It will hardly sit the kid down and make him or her work and it will not dial the phone to call the office if junior decides his homework can wait, but the TV cannot. As wonderful as the tutorial programs are, they are no substitute for either teacher or parent _.. especially ifthe learning is coming hard. 
So back to the kid in the commercial. Not for the last time in his life is he struggling ­computer or no computer. In fact, we're all struggling -struggling both at our jobs and at parenting and knowing, sometimes reluctant· ly, that there really is a "device" for struggli~ children. Most homes and schools already have one. It's called an adult. It's programmc!d to teach. 
(c), Tbt! Washington l'osl ComJNlnY 
Campus comments: What is the best program on television?? 


Barney Miller. It's funny to reflect Cheers without a question. It only I'm into reruns for sheer excite-Dynasty. I like to see Alexis create I think Cheers is the best show on back on the 70s and to have a better takes a half an hour of my time, and ment, mystery and social comment. those scandals in style television today. It's great to relax understanding of what was happen-it's hysterical. Batman is at the top ofmy list. and have some laughs on a Thursday 
ing. night. 
john Mosley Joan Harvath Gary O'Brien Ursula Crooks Mike Norton Economics FreshmanYear EngUsh American Studies Engineering Classof'84 Classof'87 Classo£'84 Classo£'85 Classof'87 

EditorialBoard Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 1'. 0./Jox Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 ( 2 19) 239-5303 Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen 
The Obst•rroer is the independent newspaper puhlished hy the students of the \ 'ni­ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn Controller...............................................Alex Szilva'i versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. It does not necessarily reflect NewsEditor.................................Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager........................Jeanie Poole the.· policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­NewsEditor....................................Mark Worscheh Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto curately and as objectively as possihle. l'nsigned c.·ditorials represent the opinon of a SaintMary'sEditor..................Anne Monastyrski !):ystems Manager...........................Kevin Williams 
majority ofthC' Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters. and the Inside Column present Sports Editor ················-·······-·--....Michael Sullivan the views oftheir authors. Column space is availabk to all members ofthe c.·ommunity. Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher Founded November 3, 1966 and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton 
Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower 

I 

Sports Briefs 
Steve AHordof Indiana has been named the Big Ten bas­ketball Player of the Week by the Associated Press for leading the Hoisiers to victories over Northwestern and Iowa Alford, a 6-2 freshman from New Castle, Ind., who won the coveted Mr. Basket­ball at the end ofhis high school career, had a total of33 points in the two games in addition to seven rebounds, I 0 assists, and four steals. 
-AP 
Workouts for the 54th Bengal Bouts have begun and will continue throughout the semester leading up to the fights. No previous experience is necessary. Workouts begin at 4 p.m. every djyin the nort th dome ofthe ACC. For information, call Angelo Perino1.t 3348, Tom Lezynski at 1728, or Mike Latz at 8308. -The Observer 
Kenny Walker scored 18 points in the second half last night to spark No.3 Kentucky to a 93-74 victory over Southeastern Conference rival Tennessee. Their fourth triumph in a row im­proved the Wildcats to 16-2 overall and 7-2 in the SEC, tops in the league. Tennessee fell to 13-8 and 4-5. -AP 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will 
hold a meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the third floor gymnastics room at the Rockne Memorial. T-shirt will be passed out and future plans will be discussed. New members are welcome. For more in­formation, call Pat Toole at 277-7571 or Matt Kelleher at 1206. ­
The Obseroer 
Tuesday,January 31, 1984-page 7 
ATrackcompetitionis being sponsored by the NVA office. Events include 60-yard low hurdles, a mile run, a four-lap relay, 60-yard dash, 440-yard and 880-yard runs, an eight-lap relay, high jump, and broad jump. Points will be awarded for first and second place halls as ranked by points compiled by individuals. To sign up, call 239-6100 or stop by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
Lifesaving/WaterSafetyInstructor Courses will be offered at the Rockne Pool at the following times: Lifesaving ­9:10-9:45, 10:15-10:50, 11:20-11:50, and 1:20-1:55 on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11:05-12:05, 1:20-2:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and 12-3 on Saturday beginning Jan. 21. Water Safety Instructor classes will be held from 9 am. to noon. There will be a charge of $6 for materials for Lifesaving classes and a $20 charge for Water Safety materials. For more information, t call Brother Louis Hurcik, C.S.C., at 239-6321. -The Observer 
Fourth-ranked Georgetown, with a career­high 22 points from freshman Reggie Williams and 18 from sopho­more David Wingate, strangled Syracuse's potent offense with a second half zone last night to defeat the No. 20 Orangemen 80-67 in Big East Conference basketball. Seven-foot Patrick Ewing was held scoreless in the first half But his dominating prescence and four baskets in the second halfcreated the leverage the Hoyas needed to defeat Syracuse. -AP 
Stretchercise classes will be given by the NVA on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:30 to 6:15 in the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. The classes, which began Sunday, emphasize stretching and light exercise. The classes are designed for faculty and staffwho have not been active recently. Ifyou have any questions, call 239­6690. -The Obseroer 
Billy Sims' testimony continues 
By MARTI AHERN 
·Associated Press 
Billy Sims admitted yesterday that 
he wanted to help his friend and 
agent Jerry Argovitz build a football 
team, but said he signed with the 
United States Football League Hous­
ton Gamblers only because Argovitz 
lied to him. 
Sims said in U.S. District Court he 
signed the Gamblers contract be­
cause he wanted to help Argovitz 
and because "I didn't want to go to a 
team that didn't want me." 
Sims signed contracts last year 
with both the USFL expansion team 
and the National Football League 
Detroit lions. He later sued the 
Gamblers and part-owner Argovitz 
on the grounds that Argovitz mis­
represented him in both sets ofcon­
tract negotiations. 
When asked by Argovitz' attorney, Steve Susman, whether he felt his former agent "intentionally lied to you to get you to sign," Sims replied, "intentionally, yes." 
Earlier in the trial, the running back testified that Argovitz had led him to believe contract talks with the lions had ended before he signed with the Gamblers. 
Sims said he felt his agent acted improperly "due to the fact that on­going negotiations were going on with the Lions when I signed." 
Argovitz was "not being fair with me from the beginning," Sims said. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next· day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person
Classifieds or by mail. Charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES  I·  FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS OUTSIDE OF CORBY'S THURS. NITE. CALL 1854 TO CLAIM. ENOAO  NEED 3 MARQUETTE TIX. FAMILY COMING FROM N.J. MUST HAVE THREE GA'S CALL GLEN x3120  NEED 4 MARQUETIE TIX STEVE 1760 HELP!! Need 2 tiks to MU/ND game. Call  FOUND: STUDENT BASKETBALL TICKET IN THE ACC AFTER 8-BALL GAME. IF YOURS CALL GLEN X 3120  College educaled couple interested in adopting an infant. If you know of anyone who is considering placing a child lor  
Marty at x3471  adoption. please call (217) 398·4t 69 alter  
Experienced Typist Mrs. Bedford HoU"S 8AMto5PM MonttvuFri 288-2t07  LOST:Biact< Casio calculator-watch. on Fri. Jan 27. H found. please call Mark at 1787. LOST: GOLD BEAD NECKLACE WITH DIAMOND CHIP SPACER BETWEEN MIDDLE BEADS IF FFOUND. PLEASE  Summer Work: Interviewing and selecting TO students from N.D. Relocate out West. Ave. earnings $310/Wk. Send name. address, phone NO.. and career inten­tions to: Summer Work. P.O. Box 803. Notre Dame. IN. 46556  I NEED MARQUETIE TIX STUD OR GA. CALL BILL at 1059. I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA"S. CALL DAVE AT .t80t  FOUND:ONEPEARLNECKLACEAND 2 OTHER NECKLACES IN A JEWELRY BOX OUTSIDE OF FARLEY. CALL PAT 277-7571. FOUND: A photograph of two klllans and one nol too _,rd Flz. Buddies  6p.m. DOES EVERYONE STARE THE WAY I DO? LORI HEIFER.21 on the 31st! Go lor rt all!! ·The Quad  
TRAVEL FIELD OPPORTUNITY-EARN  CALL MARY AT 283-6 t 781.  NEED  RIDE  OR  RIDERS  TO  HELP! QESPERATELY NEED MU TICK· ETS! CALL PAT AT 3625  nowand friends~-C811232-o817.  CONGRATULATIONS  TERESE  
MONEY AND GAIN VALUABLE MARKETING EXPERIENCE. BE A REP·  LOST: or STOLEN -A Principles ol Management.. book from t booksheH  COLUMBUS. OHIO THIS CALL FITZAT 234-5357  WEEKEND  $$Help!! Need 2 DEPAUL Tix! call 284­ LOST:QUANTITATIVE  METHODS  HENKEN! Volleyball MVP -We always t knew how VALUABLE you were!!  
RESENTATIVE FOR SPRING BREAK  outside  bookstore  on  1-30.  PLEASE  5119$$  TEXT AT SOUTH DINING HALL FRIDAY  
TRIP TO FLORIDA. CALL CAMPUS MARKETING AT (3t2) 858-4887 COL­LECT.  return. no questions. CALL t697. LOST: BLUE NORTH FACE COAT ON  URGENT: Ride needed to Grand Rapids weekend of Feb. 3. Will share $. Please Call Tim al8798.  Need DEPAUL GA"s call John alter 7 pm collect (3t2)998-8384  1120 AT APPROX 1:15. ACTUALLY. I BELIEVE THIS TEXT WAS STOLEN. TO THE PERSON WHO STOLE IT. IF YOU  HOW'S YOUR ASPEN? SPRING BREAK SKI TRIP $265 INCLUDES 5 DAYS. 6 NIGHTS. 5 DAY  
endad  JAN t8 AT SENIOR BAR. I THINK WE JUST EXCHANGED COATS. PLEASE  8;;b;;;;;tt;;;···~···;;;;;;;;;.-;;;;il~···i;;;·2  WILL TRADE A DEPAUL OR MAR­ HAVE ANY CLASS. EVEN A LITTLE BIT, PLEASE RETURN THIS TEXT TO  LIFT TICKET $75 DEPOSIT DUE FRIDAY FEB 3 AT  
s..... 2llb Off U8l on your textbooks by order at Pandora's  CALLATt695. FOUND-gold Lorus quartz watch wrth a  great kids in near northwest neoghbor­hood. $1.00/hr. Own transportation prelerred. Call 233-7 463  QUETTE TIX FOR KEENAN REVUE TICKET: WED OR FRI. CALL 'BECCA 6843  WHERE YOU FIRST APPREHENDED IT. NO Q QUESTIONS ASKED. IF YOU REFUSE TO DO SO YOU ARE SCUM  THE NO RECORD STORE STUDENT UNION  
Books Two day detntery service! 937 South Bend Avenue at Corby Blvd. Phone 233-2342.  dark Uzard band. Found in ACC. call lo Identify 284-4391.  2 FEMALE ROOMATES NEEDED IM­MEDIATELY CAMPUS VIEW CALL284­5342  BILLY JOEL-2 tix br sale. Not mar ol stage. John S. 289-8417  AND I HOPE YOU ROT IN HELL. Where is the Blessed Virgin Mary Helen 0 ?J.C.  HOLY CROSS GUYS KNOW HOW TO PARTY! THANK GOD SOMEONE KNOWS HOW.  
EXPERT TYPIST 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 KEENAN REWE TICKETS ARE GENERAL ADIIISSION. The n.........  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  J  I  Need Keenan Review tickets willing to pay big $$$. Call TOM 1 t 69 $$$$DESPERATELY NEED DEPAUL STUD. TIX CALLJEFF 1026  GROUND ZERO MEETING. TUES. 7:00. Center lor Social Concerns. New mem­bers welcomed and encouraged. Will be making plans lor Teach-in. Feb. 11,12.  SUZANNE is 20·YES the BB.. is calling your name! Domers call-4443 GET PSYCHED·Iove-NAK & JUCK  
~on tile tlchets ARE NOT SEAT  ································  
NUIIIBERS. s-IngIlltile ahows 111 ...1-----­ILOST/FOUND I  FURNISHED HOME FOR RENT 2n­3604 Student rental: 5-6 bedroom house. fireplace. disf",washer. & washer & dryer. Call232-4057 or 272-n67. CAMPUS VIEW-MALE ROOMMATE wanted. 234.0537  IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­.IAENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL (312) 742-t142 EXT.7316. Notm Dame house lor sale. 4 bedrooms. 15 mins. from campus. Assuma)je mortgage. Good investment lor parents.  NEED DEPAUL STUD. TIX CALL MARK(Magilla) 1059 ················································· I NEED DEPAULTIX (BIG BUCKS) CALL 2n-151o NEED 1 GA & 2 STUDENT TIX FOR DEPAUL$$$$Dave ph18t4  THREE -UTES TO MIDNIGHT Summer Programs for SIIC-NO Stu­dents London Program M8y :Z:Wune 22 (Travel In lralllnd, Scotlllnd, France); Col..-COUI'888 Roma Program June 17..July 16 (Trawl In France, Gar., Switz); Collage-level courses ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING  Thara once was a guy named Jim And In M•rch he went for a swim He accapted a dille But broke It too late And now his future looks grim Kostecky: Come out to play!  
ONE HUNDRED OOlLAR REWARD ol­ Call 283-6243.  Fab 27 Rm 349 Mild for Info. C8ll Prof  
lered by United Lino: A tan. brown suitcase with a cord around ~ wt as lost on Jan. 15th at Noire Dame. Please call Steve at Unrted Uno-674-6993. FOUND-SHARP CALCULATOR IN RM 202 BUSINESS ADMIN. ON 1123  SPACIOUS 2 NEAR GOLF COURSE THIS SEMES.. TEA. 2 PERSONS OR FAMILY. NO PARTIES. $250 & DEPOSIT OF $250. 289-t687  74 FORD VAN FOR SALE Customized Interior. New Auto. Trans.. tires. battery. Reliable running cond. Asking $1450. Call Bob at 283-8552 or Paul at283·8458. FOR SALE HP-33E CALCULATOR CALL FRED AT t 760  PERSONALS SENIORS: Volunteer Wort< wllh HOLY  Black 2114-4460 (d8y) or 272-3726 (evenings~ Once Again Thoughts from Taaa, Bill, 8nd Kim Hi Menorah. you heartbreaker. a get well wish to my man on crutches. and to Morna, Room II. Ill. IV lefs party! Sweel  Martina is like a man... she is super· woman! To the guy from the lowers who bough! my Billy Joel ticket(around S picl< 460): I lost your name and number. Ptease call Chuck at 1972.  
LOST: J8n. 25 Ill Senior S. -navy ....COlli.""'-C811277­LOST: ONE BLACK WALLET AT CORBrS ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 272-8291. REWARD. -···-···--··-·---·-·-·-·----· LOST: DARK BLUE JACKET THURSDAY (1126) AT RAFFERTYS. CAROtN ZIPPER JACKET. rVE GOT YOURS WITH BUTTONS. CALL 211&­9070. LOST: One gray and whole thtn-striped long sleeve short wllh a small hole on the  MCAT PREP BOOKS CALL 8197WANTED Want to know whafs mally going on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER. the onlyLooking lor 2 dependatje females to newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­share living expenses in furnished house. scription information and a 1ree sample10 minutes from campus. $150 per month copy. call Paul at 2n-485t.includes utilrties. Non-smokers please. Call Z39-5930or 29t-9644. BILLY JOEL TIX Tom 1689 ::~~f~~:~:~::::~ ·»··..r_·:_..,-,_tCKm_·.______...;.,.·.1  CROSS ASSOCIATES. Communrty li'ling and service in PHOENIX . COLORADO. CALIFORNIA. AND OREGON. Deadline lor applications Feb.3. Call Mary Ann Roemer, 7949. REWRITE OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. GARY LARSON. GARY LARSON. you are wanted at the Observer. GARY LAR­SON. will you please come to the Ob­server office. please. Paging GARY LARSON.  revenge lor Mellsa! Happy Birthday Heat­her. I hear Mini Juleps are a cure-all. Can we talk? ME GRANTed. Californian men are good­k>oking and interesting conver­sationalists ..? .• but the girls of Farley have had their fill for qurte a while. Some of them fail to uphold their image. Especially distorted EL GRECOS that are so sell­conscious. Why don't you go to youo parties and flex your muscles? signed, your ever-lasting admirers and frnlowers and comb carriers, C&J  Kris, you are a wild party animal! You and your friends at Trinity are too exciting for words! Why do you wanl lo move to Texas! Everything I'm writing is lollowed by an exclamation point! You'd love the weather here! I'll see Y'!U later! KM. Why try hiding on your loft? Revenge is inevitable! MM Connie King and Carol Camp, Welcome back to the colonies! Mary _; YO! ANNIE, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LIFE BEGINS AT ... LOVE. BARNEY  
top left shoulder It was acadentally put m someone·s laundry by St. Michael's  or any weekend call John 234-7033  -- - DO NOT DISTURB THE STUDY HABITS  QUOTE OF THE YEAR FOR SYR'S: "DOES ANYONE HAVE A COMB?"  
Laundry Servtee belore Christmas. H you havert. please return loJim atXTTOT.  NEED RIDE TO TOLEDO WEEKEND. CALL2737!  THIS  NEED GA"S FOR DEPAUL OR MAR­QUETIE CALL 8057  OF THE TORS!  ESOPHAGUS  CONSTRIC­ Hey room1e. I was looking forward to next year. What happened?  

Tuesday,January 31, 1984-page 8
The Observer 
Fencers are looking sharper all the time 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports U:'rlter 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fc:ndn~ tc:ams improvc:d their rc:cords as they wc:nt un­ddc:att:d over the weekc:nd in Columbus, Ohio. 
The Irish men knockl·d off North Carolina Statt· .23-4. Miami of Ohio .2'4-3. and highly touted North Carolina IH-9. Tht· victories im­provt'd their rc:cord to 9-0 while c:xtt·ndin~ thc:ir unddc:ated streak to 
16 mt-cts 16 met·ts going hack to February 9, 19H_>,, when they lost to Wayne State, 14-13. 
"Wt•'rt· on a roll ri~ht now," ex­plained lkad Coach Mike: DeCicco. "We pi<:kc:d up an impressive win over a strong North Carolina squad (and the: team) is fendn~ with con­fidt·nce." 
The Irish sabre squad boosted its impressive: record to 77-11 as they wt·nt 19-3 against the three teams. Junior captain Mike: Janis ( 2I-I on the season) lost his first bout of the year against North Carolina while improving his lift-time record to 96­22 (fifth on the all-time Irish sabre squad list). 
Sophomore John Edwards rc:mained undcfeatc:d at I4-0 as he was 6-0 on Saturday. and sophomore Tony Consoli also was unbeaten over the weekend at 3-0 ( I6-2 on the season). 
The epee squad full of youth and determination improved its season mark to a surprising 70-18 at Columbus. Junior captain Andy Quaroni (I H-I on the season) led the epeeists despite losing his first bout also to the Tarhecls. He did im­prove his lifetime ledger to 8I-I S (he is sixth on the all-time epee list). Also impressive was frc:shman John Haugh, 4-I ( 12-I on the season) and sophomore Brian St. Clair , 5-1 ( I4­5). 
The foil squad led by frc:shman Charles Higgs-Coulthard,7-0, and sophomore Mike Vander Vclden, 4­2, improved its season record to 60­2H. Higgs-Coulthard, who is 26-1 for the year, is udcfeated in his last 24 bouts. Dave Router also went un­defeated at 3-0 ( I I-6 on the season). 
DeCicco is impressed with his team's effort this far hut believes that 
Skaters 
•

arrive 
Associated Press 
An IH-member U.S. speed skating team flew into Sarajevo on la~t night, the first American athletes to arrive for the XIV winter Olympics starting here next week. 
Three members of the squad and the team's head coach, Dianne Holum, did not make it. They com­peted in the women's World All­around Championships in Deventer, Holland, during the weekend and failed to join the team as planned. 
"I don't know if they're still in Amsterdam or ifthey got to Zagreb," said Bill Cushman, manager of the 
U.S. speed skating team, as the Americans checked into the Olym­pic Village. 
Among the missing U.S. skaters was Mary Docter of Madison, Wis., 
who  won  a  bronze  medal  in  the  
3,000  meters  in  Deventer  but  
finished a lowly I Oth overall.  

Most of the U.S. team, including the women's sprint skaters, has been working out in Davos, Switzerland, before the Olympics. 
Only three members on the team have skated here before, Danny Jan­sen of West Allls, Wis., and Dave Silk ofButte, Mont., andjane Goldman of Glenview, Ill. They competed in the World junior Championships last 
year.. 
his men must avoid a letdown as 
they are only halfway through their 
sea'ilm. 
The Irish ladies wen: also success­
ful on Saturday as they lost only two 
bouts in downing North Carolina 
State. 14-.2. and :\iiami ofOhio, 16-0. 
"I was proud of the way the women n·sponded after the heartbreaking loss to Wisconsin." explaint·d DeOcco. "We were able to fence a lot of people (and) our depth may become a factor latt·r this season." 
Leading the way for the Irish was freshman Cindy Weeks who posted a spotless 5-0 ( 7-.3 on rhe season). Janet Sullivan and Sharon DiNicola also posted solid victories of3-0 and 2-0 respectively. 
"Cindy (Weeks) really came through this weekend," said DeCk­co. "Hopefully. ht·r performance in Columbus will help build some con­fidence." 
The Irish fencers will take their 
show hack on the road on Saturday, 
February 4 when they travel to An­
gola where: they will duel Tri-State, 
Wisconsin-Parkside, and Cleveland 
State. 


The Observer Tuesday, January 31, 1984-page 9 
All-Star Game is tonight in New Jersey 
By BOB SANSEVERE his shoulder for the end of his 51­Associated Press game scoring streak, halted Saturday night by the Los Angeles Kings. 
The National Hockey League Gretzky was injured Jan. 21. plays a less than star-studded all-star Playing in his fifth All-Star Game at game tonight night, with six big the age of 23, he triggered the names out with injuries, and the big­Campbell Conference to a 9-3 vic­
gest star of all -Wayne Gretzky -tory in last year's All-Star Game by playing with a sore shoulder. scoring four times in the third 
When the teams take the ice at the period. Brendan Byrne Arena, among the missing will be five high-scoring for­Bossy and Trottier, ranked third 
wards -Mike Bossy and Bryan Trot­and sixth among NHL scoring tier, maintays of the four-time NHL leaders and key figures in the Islan­champion New York Islanders; Jari ders' bid to capture their fifth 
Kurri of the Edmonton Oilers, Tony straight Stanley Cup crown, both Tanti of the Vancouver Canucks and have knee injuries. Jensen, replaced Marcel Dionne of the Los Angeles by Glenn"Chico" Resch of the host Kings. 
NewJersey Devils, will join them on Goalie AI Jensen of the Washing­
the Wales Conference casualty list. ton Capitals also is sidelined with an 
The other absentees are from the injury. 
Campbell. Kurri, the NHL's second­Gretzky, far out in front of the 
leadiong scorer behind teammate NHL with 61 goals and 92 assists for 
Gretzky, has a groin injury; Dionne 15 3 points, said yesterday that a 
has an ankle injury and Tanti cut his 
sprained right shoulder had left him thumb in an accident last week at his at "half-strengh." But he said he home. APPboco would sit out the game only if the The Oilers, who have the NHL's pain in his shoulder worsened New jersey Devil's goaltender Glenn Resch will be absent from the contest as the story on the left ex­
best record, are represented by a 
during a practice session today with playing in front ofa home crowd tonight when the plains.
league-high six players -gretzky, 
NHL All-Star Game takesplace. Six ofthe stars will be
his Campbell Conference Messier, Coffey, Fuhr, Kevin Lowe teammates. 
and Glenn Anderson. "Of course, it's sore. But I can 

play. I'll be a bit more careful than usual," said Gretzky, who will serve as captain for the Campbell Con­ference squad. 
Gretz!..-y stopped short of blaming 
NFL 
standings 
In I his year's NHLplayoffformat the top four learns in each division make the playoffs, regardless of over­all league slanding 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division  
W  L  T  GF  GA Pts.  
Buffalo  33  13  6  210  165  72  
Boston  33  15  3  222  157  69  
Quebec  28  18  6  244  184  62  
Montreal  25  24  3  201  192  53  
Hartford  15  28  7  167  212 37  
Patrick Dlvlaion  

New Vorl< Rangers 30 17 5 213 193 65 New York Islander 31 19 2 228 182 64 Philadelphia 27 15 8 218 179 62 Wash1ngton 27 21 4 193 167 58 Pittsburgh 10 35 5 153 226 25 NewJersey 10 36 5 141 215 25 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlalon 

W L T GF GA Pts Edmonlon 38 9 5 303 203 81 Calgary 19 19 11 181 200 49 Winnipeg 19 24 8 228 255 46 Vancouver 19 28 6 204 215 44 Los Angeles 15 27 10 215 246 40 
Norris Division Minnesota 27 20 4 241 232 58 St. Louis 21 27 5 195 213 47 Chicago 20 27 6 182 202 46 Detroil 17 29 5 179 220 39 Toronto 16 29 6 195 25'1 38 
Tuesdey's Games All· Star Game at East Rutherford. N.J. 

Irish 
continued from page 10 
tant win, but she felt that this one was important for different reasons. 
"This was a big win for us because it got us out of a rut," said the Irish coach. "It's a little early to say whether or not this victory will turn things around for us, but there were a lot of positive signs. We needed people to play well, to play hard, to produce a total team effort. We got that tonight." 
Schueth, who like the rest of the team, is playing solidly of late, cited the team's progress as well. 
"We're really start:_ing to play well together," said the junior center. "It's too bad that it's this late in the season, but we've still got enough games left to win our conference (the Irish are currently in second place). 
"It was important for us to avenge the earlier defl.:at to DePaul. Per­sonally, I'm feding more com­fortable with my inside game, and I'm playing hard. The team is playing tough too, and everyone is feeling comfortable. We're staring to gell now." 
The people factor at Northrop DSD continues
The People 
to be the bulwark of our long term com­mitments to the future. We have career oppor­
Behind Airborne tunities available for individuals degreed in the following: 
Radar Warning 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (B.S./M.S.) COMPUTER SCIENCE 
and ECM Systems. 
PHYSICS 

Our representatives will be interviewing on campus on ·February 10, 1984. 
To arrange an interview, contact your College 
Plac~ment Director or Northrop's Professional 
Employment Office. 

We are an equal opportunity employer 
MAKNG ADVANCED TED-iNDLDGY WORK. 
M/FIV/H. 


The Observer 


highlightedbyfreshman football stand-outA/vinMil­ler. 
SIU loses out 

Fastest mile relay time disallowed 
Associated Press 

A world's-best indoor clocking in the mile relay cannot be recognized as either a world or American record, a spokesman for The Ath­letics Congress said yessterday. 
The team of Perry Duncan, Tony Adams, Elvis Forde and Michael Franks was clocked at ~ minutes, 
H.94 seconds dring a triangular meet with host Indiana and Wisconstn at the Ill fiddhouse on Saturday. 
Although the Southern lllinois time is considered a world's best, it is not recognized as a world's record by the International Amateur Ath· ktk Federation be<:ause of a great disparity in indoor tracks. 
"It's almost like comparing applt's and oranges," TAC spokesman Pete Cava said. 

He also said the time "cannot be recognized as an American record because Forde (who is from Bar­bados) is a foreigner." 
The quarter-mile splits on In­diana's regulation track were hand-clocked. Duncan was timed at 47.25, Adams at 48.49, Forde at 
46.74 and Franks at 46.25. 
Franks, who only began running the quarter-mile last summer, qualified for the NCAA finals last season and competed international­ly for several U.S. amateur squads. 
His progress, according to Coach Lew Hartzog, has been doubly im­
--Ihec~Obsener-=-= 
is accepting applications for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief. 
All ND/SMC undergraduates are eligible. Deadline is 5 p.m. February 3. Contact David Dziedzic for info. 


Tuesday Night Specials 3-8 pm All mixed drinks 2 for 1 8-3 am "Jack Daniels" night 
Free t-shirts/hats raffled off!! 

PIZZA 
16" LARGE....•... $6.19 
Extra Toppings Sl.OO ea. Includes Free Delivery to NO &SMC 
Jolis~ Jrinre Jizzerin. 
18061 STATE ROAD 23 1/z Block W. of Ironwood on 23 SOUTH BEND, IN. 
'·u•n Da>ly 4 PM T>il AM Carry Oui ! 
Closed Mondays L1m1ted FREE Delivery)
272.8030 
---~~· 
pressive because SIU does not have 
an indoor track facility and the team 
does its training outdoors, even in 
the winter months. 
The former world indoor best was 
3:09.4 by the Pacific Coast Club at a meet in Pocatello, Idaho, on Feb. 27, 1971, according to Dave johnson of Track and Field News. 
Indiana won Saturday's meet with 65 points. Southern Illinois was second at 59.5, and Wisconsin was third at 36.5 points. 

Tuesday,January 31, 1984-page 10 
Irish women solidly defeat rival DePaul 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 

Going into last night's game at the 
ACC, the Notre Dame women's bas· 
ketball team had a lot in common 
with the Lady Blue Demons of 
DePaul. Both teams had records of 
2-2 in the North Star Conference, 
and both were 7-10 overall. Both 
teams were also struggling to find a 
consistent winning combination. 
There was, however, one major 
difference between the two teams. 
The difference was DePaul's 16­
point victory the last time the two 
teams met on)an. 21 in Chicago. 
The Irish were out to even the 
score last night, and did just that, 
pulling away from De Paul in the 
second halfto win by a 78-62 score. 
"I definitely believe that we had a 
score to settle with DePaul," said 
Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao."l was 
pleased that the team felt that way 
also. I think we played better be­
cause ofit." 

Things started out slowly for the Irisl;l, as they had trouble with a stingy DePaul defense. Notre Dame matched the Lady Blue Demons basket-for-basket until the seven­minute mark of the first half, when DePaul forwardsjanine Douglas and Mary Lou O'Brien combined to score six straight points, giving the 
.visitors a 2 5-19 lead. 

DiStanislao called for a timeout at 
that moment, and it proved to be the 
turning point of the game. The Irish 
stormed back with nine unanswered 
points (six by sophomore forward 
Trena Keys) to take a 28-25 lead. 
They never trailed again. 

Notre Dame had a ~4-30 lead at 
the half, but came out looking for 
more. Led by Keys' sharpshooting and the tough inside play of junior center Mary Beth Schueth, the Irish began to puU away, taking a I~-point lead midway through the second half. 
"What we've needed all along is one or two dominant players, the kind that come through under pressure," said DiStanisao. "Tonight we got that kind of performance. Trena knew it was on her shoulders, and she came through for us. The same goes for Mary Beth, who along with Lavetta (Willis) and Carrie (Bates), really controlled the boards." 
In addition to the dominant play of leading scorers Keys ( 21 points) and Schueth ( 20 points), DiStanislao had a lot more to be happy about. 
"We got good perimeter shooting from Vonnie (Thompson) and Lynn (Ebben)," said the Irish coach. "Lynn also played very well defensively, and Vonnie is improv­ing with every game, showing grace under pressure. Ruth (Kaiser) also played well for us." 
DePaul was unable to rally in the 
second half, as the Irish took control 
at both ends of the court and won 
going away. Junior guard Laura 
Dougherty hit two free throws in the 
final minute to put the Irish up by 
14. In the process, Dougherty added to her nation-leading foul shooting statistics that now read 41 for 43 (.953 ). Following a DePaul basket, Thompson and Bates each sank a pair offree throws to forge the final score. 
TJIStanislao was hesitant to call the victory the biggest win of the season for the Irish, citing Notre Dame's 70­61 victory over UCLA as an impor­
see IRISH, page 9 

Navy Medical Scholarships ~vailable 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide: 
' 

D Your full tuition, authorized fees and educational expenses D The cost of required books and supplies D Rental fees for necessary equipment such as microscopes D A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 
Participation in the Navy Health Proffessions Scholarship Program does not involve any military training nor requires wearing of a Navy uniform. Your academic routine and lifestyle will remain the same as other medical students. 
Qualifications for this scholarship include: D Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or 
osteopathy D Be a U.S. citizen D Be physically qualified for a 
commission as a Naval Officer For more information: Call Navy Medical Programs Officer Lieutenant Greg Thompson TOLL FREE 1·800·382·9782. 

~~~C3L~--------------------------------------T-u-es_d_ay_,_Ja_n_u_~
__3_1_,_1_98_4___p_a_g_e__ll 
Bloom County 

W/111/t..rl P0661~5 .' MIY, 1'111VIl'Tf: ~BB... r 1?0 m~~ YOO I'(}(JNV 'lrXJR5€I.F A/JI& eX' 
G€N-U-1Nf-f10tJii. ~.' 
Mellish 
GoOD EYENIWG, NOTRE DAI'If STUDENTS AND FA,UITV... 
Guindon 

MY/ ANP JIIST IN 'Tift'i.,1'00! 

SAY-YQ?.. fJf.IN' MrifTY WITH PU 'Tli056 IIUIA f'()U(,f} 
QV16T 11£f(t, {1115m( AN' PW100AAMR5 ll.W:IPLI..Y 
POUlf?. Bef!R •• WHA75A 5N~AKIN' AflD.Itli71HIS Off·UMIT5 
MlfTieR... YOO 51ft.? 
!!A1'IU ZONE, YOO MKitiTA 
UffiN ONE. -' 

I AM IHIPPY fo BE HI'RE AS YOU PI!08Ail~ KNOW, I AM TONIGHT, SHARlfi/G' THE. HUMOR GARV LIIRSOIII ANI) I••. THAT IS 0nt E FAA SlOE.'' 
\ 

Richard Guindon The Far Side 
Berke Breathed 
KOOTCHtl! 

Dave&Dave 
"Hey!Psst! It's hir.i! ...Now?" 
Gary!.arson 


Sure, you can make big money stuffing envelopes at home, but they don't tell you what goes in them. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 34 Plndaric 59 Drink of 15 Recluse 1 Fiction 35 Mention for bacchanals 18 Journal an award 60 Heady 19 Certain
5 Companion of Artemis 36 Sacred beverage exams 
9 Muddle writings 61 Region: 23 Nothing more than 
13 First: abbr. 37 Office abbr. 
24 With merrl· 
14 Pleceof Item pie 38 Ibsen ment 16 Miscellane­character DOWN 25 Klndof 
ous mixture 39 Race 1 Mahjongg pie 17 Be reckless 40 Stationed piece 26 Dispatch 20 Culbertson 41 As a rule 2 Dye boat 
of bridge 43 Certain 

3 Old Roman 27 Ustlnov the· 21 Concerning workshop historian actor44 O.T.book
22 Mistakes 4 Fr. season 28 Cat 23 Balthazar, 45 Taupe 5 Nasal 29 Self· Melchior, 46 Rose of­
6 Matlsseor possessionand Gaspar 49 Phooey! Bergson 
30 Goldbrick
24 Agent 7 Sharpness
50 Intelligent 31 Indigent
25 Flimsy 8 Manyyears
53 Playing It people28 Nose dive's 9 Grieves
safe 33 Misses
cousin 10 Rolein
56 ..... go bragh!

32-now and "Lohengrln" 36 Is suitable then 11 Earthy 37 Spurious
57 Valuable fur

33 Paceand sediment 39 Friendof trot 58 Place 12 Asian bean Pythlas 

Water buffalos 
40 Cortwood 49 After-bath 42 Service wear member 50 Israeli 43 Be pestif· port erous 51 Look 45 Twin curiously crystal 52 Powerful 46 Cookln one water 54 Seize and 
arrest 47 Mata-55 Burmese 48 Related demon 

Monday's Solution 

Campus 
•3 
p.m.-Seminar, "There is no Maxwell Demon for Catalysis, but.." Prof. W. N. Delgass, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•3:30 
p.m -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to TSO, 115 CCMB 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Painterly Abstraction and Pounds' Modernist Renaissance," Prof Charles Al· tieri, 223 Hayes Healy 

•6 
p.m. -Ground Zero Steering Committee Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Night Mail," "The River," and "The Spanish Earth," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 

•7 
p.m. -Ground Zero Organizational Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Far Side," Gary Larson, Library Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7 p.m. 

7:30p.m. 
8 p.m. 

8:30 p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10 p.m. 
11 p.m. 

16· NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBSNews 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Straight Talk 16 A Team 22 The Mississippi 28 Foul-ups, Bleeps and Blunders 34 NOVA 28 Happy Days 16 Riptide 22 Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 American Playhouse 28 Oh Madeline 16 Remington Steele 28 Hart to Hart 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Magnum PI/McCloud 28 Thicke ofthe Night 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 1/31/84 
FREE UNIVERSITY 
§ Student Government Information Bureau §
REGISTRATION 
§ 11 am· 4 pm § 
(1ikrr6) T !1® {;iJ/II § §
§ Call us with questions about campus life § 
I~ I§
Mon., Jan. 30 7-lOp.m. LaFor.tune Ballroom 
239-0BUD
Tues., Jan. 31 in SMC dining halls 
~ If interested in helping, contact Andy or Henry ~ 
get involved! en ~ ten your life! 
L..,....,..~..,...,........~.......,....,....,....,....,...,.....,..~..,;...:::.,;.;..,...,..,........~...cocr.,...,..~....ocr.J 

Sports 
Tuesday,January 31, 1984-page 12 
Notre Dame swimmers are successful out East 
By MARY SIEGER his fri~nd, 'this is THE Notre Dame,"' .\ports Writer mused Stark. In Saturday's competition against The Notre Dame men's swim Georgetown, the Irish were looking 
team returned to South Bend late for an opportunity to make up for yesterday afternoon with its season the loss to Johns Hopkins and record slightly tarnished. Tht· Irish dominated most of the meet. moved from a perfect 4-0 record to a S· I mark after the team fell to Johns "We were a much fresher team Hopkins {lniversity 69-44 and later against Georgetown because we had defeated Georgetown Univt·rsity 70-a night to rest before the meet," said .:\S this past weekend. Casey. 
Two hours after the Irish arrived Depth was an important factor on in Maryland on Friday, they found an Saturday and the meet gave some of t•xtrcmly t·nthusiaslic Johns Hop­the less experieccd swimmers a kins squad waiting for them. With chance to compete in a dual meet. more than .200 noisy fans watching "Everyone was able to pull through tht· meet, Johns flopkins took ad­for the team on Saturday and it vantage of an early lead. "They out allowed the swimmers to swim dif­Irished us." cxlained junior Brian ferent events," said Stark. Cast·y. Junior diver Rich Yohon com­
The Obscncr/Paul CIDrrDI 

Friday's meet saw several exciting peted well in both meets this 
that lead the Irish in sweeping Iowa State. For moT"P
Mark Benning, seen here scoring against St. Nor­

and <:ompetative races, but Johns weekend and has shown improve­I Iopkins always managed to pull ment in recent meets. According to berts, waspart ofa praiseworthy defense this weekend details, seejohhn Mennell's story below. 
away from the Irish in the last half Casey, he has adequately adapted to lap. his new role as Notre Dame's top 
Spots earned in Nationals 

"We wert· stunned at first,"said diver. Casey. "They had a slight edge and tht·y were a lot more enthused." "Rich had his best meet in two 
Although tht· Irish only won three years al}ohns Hopkins and has filled 
'Underdog' Belles surprise DePauw 
first place finishes on Friday, the in and really came through for the team did win several of second and team," said Casey. 
By KATHLEEN NICHOLSON The Belles not only taught their strokes, qualifying for national com­
third places. Although the team is disappointed Sports Writer opponent DePauw the perils of petition in the latter event.
"There were a number of good to sec its record drop, the Irish still under-estimating the competition, During the course of the meet, races and they're a good school feel they have enjoyed an exception­Lefty Dricsell and his Maryland but they established themselves as a captain Casey added another threeacademically," said Notre Dame al season so far and arc optimistic 
Terps weren't the only team to be team with both strength and depth. events to her list of national
head coach Dennis Stark."But we about the future. Casey described upset by the underdog in competi­In the first event of the meet, the qualifications by placing first in thedidn't expect them to dominate the the team's first loss of the season as tion this past Saturday, as a spirited 200-yard medley relay, the Belles 50 and 100 freestyle and second in meet that much." "a lesson well learned -now we will St. Mary's· swim team travelled to took a quick lead by placing first and the 200 freestyle.
Judging from Johns Hopkins always expect a strong meet." 
DePauw University to teach its second , while at the same time
eratic performances earlier this 

swimmers a few things about win­qualifying for Nationals in the event. Sophmore Studer again showed season, the Irish didn't expect them Despite Notre Dame's loss to ning. The aggressive Belles defeated The first place team compromised of her versatility and strength when to be as well prepared for Friday's Johns Hopkins, Casey believed the DePauw 74-65 in what has been the Rosie Whalen, Gail Casey, Amy she captured firsts in the 100 but­
meet as they were. "We really weekend occured during this meet. 
sweetest victory for the team this Studer and Ellen Byrne. The three terfly, breaststroke, and I.M. Shecouldn't tell what we were getting "It was the first the team really 
season. talented women lead th rest of the qualified for national competition ininto and we didn't expect them to be came together, even though it was a At the meets conclusion, DePauw team in individual success with a the second two t events. 
that psyched for us," said Casey. little too late," he said. 
Coach Joe Condon summed things slew ofvictories. Junior Byrne, the last member ofAccording to Stark, Johns Hopkins This Saturday, the Irish will travel up best by saying, "St. Mary's has Senior Whalen placed first in her the national bound relay, also saw Friday's meet as their chance to 
to Bowling Green, Ohio to face definitely taught us a lesson today." specialties, the 50 and 100 back-anchored the second place 200beat Notre Dame and was pointing squads from Kalamazoo College and 
freestyle relay team.

their season to Friday's match since Bowling Green. Casey expects a it was s<:heduled. tough meet against Bowling Green Freshman diver Jennifer "One of the Johns Hopkins stu­but thinks, "we should take them 
Hockey team nets 

Hirschfeld captured two seconds in dents pointed to our bus and said to both." 
the diving events, smashing her own varsity record on the three meter
two more victories 

and qualifying for nationals on the one-meter board. ByJOHN MENNELL to an early lead, this time 4-1 on 
Pleased with the team as a whole,

Sports Writer goals by Brent Chapman, Mike Coach Trees commended the
Metzler, Joe Bowie and Tim Reilly. younger swimmers for thdr im­
Notre Dame's hockey team has Iowa St. struck once more before provements over the sea<;<>n.
returned to its winning ways. The Chapman and Bonadio had the last "Some of the best perti1rmann·s
Irish bounced backfrom their loss to say for the Irish. came from unexpected sources." he
Lake Forest last week by defeating The puck got by Irish goalie AI said.
Iowa State 4-3 on Friday and 6-4 on Havercamp two more times to end These unexpected sources in­
Saturday. the game at 6-4. In all, Haverkamp cluded newcomer diver MaryCiare
The two victories in Ames, Iowa collected 26 saves. bring Notre Dame's record to 17-I -0 Sheerin who placed third on the overall and I 1-0-0 in the Central "The games had to be played on a one-meter board, as well as States Collegiate Hockey Lt:aguc. private arena where they had some 
sophmoreJean Weigand who placed problems with the ice," Smith said. second and third in the 200 and I00 On Friday night, the Irish jumped "Nicther team could show its full IM events, respectively. out to a 3-1 lead on goals by Bob capabilities. Equally imprcs.o;ive were distance
Thebeau, Tony Bonadio, and Dave "We had exceptional defense freecstylcrs Julie Gschwind and
Waldbillig. Iowa St. came back to tie from Thebeau, Bonadio, and (Mark) Anne Cushing who placed second
the game at 3-3. Benning. They carried the full and third in the SOO freestyle.
In the third period, Adam Parsons brundt ofit." Sprintt·r Joyce Murtagh placed
scored the winning goal on a deflec­third in the SO freestyle and fresh­
tion. Somebody had to pull the brundt man Corrine Jat·kson took another"After getting home late on Wed­ofit. When cptain Joe Bowie moved third in the SO breao;tstroke.
nesday night and driving for half of up to offense, the defensive corps Thursday night, the kids played was left with only five members ­
"Although these girls ( tht· unex­

quite well," said to coach Charles Rob Ricci and Greg Duncan adding 
pected sources) don't receive mut·h

"Lefty" Smith. to list Smith mentioned above. 
publicity, they sparked the team by
The travelling wa~n't the only 
greatly improving their times andproblem that the Irish had to "I guess we had to pull togctiJer, touching out their heavily favored overcome. According to many ofthe and we knew it," Bonadio said opponents," said Trees. 

players, the conditions of the icc "With the loss ofJoe (Bowie) to the weren't up to par. offens t e. there were only five of us more confident after
The team,

left. We knew we had to mouivatc, their victory on Saturday, should be
"We're used to fast and hard icc at 
and we all did our part." 
able to use their leftover energy and
the ACC," sophomore Mark Benning 
enthusia<;m in the pursuit of theirsaid. "The ice in Iowa was brutal. Next weekend, the Irish will have 

next opponent, Kalamazoo College,There was lots of snow on it, and a home-and-home series with Mar­

when they meet on Friday in 

The Obscncr/Paul CIDrrUI chips and divcts. It wasn't smooth at quette. The first game of the 
Kalamazoo. Trees, confident with
all."

Mary Beth Schueth, who poured in 20 points last night against weekend is on Warrior territory at 
his new 3-2 record, will be sure not 

De Paul, goes up for two in action earlier this season with Loyola. Tim Lukenda protected the goal H:30 p.m. Friday.The following day, 
to underestimate his competition ­

The Irish easily avenged an earlier defeat to the Lady Blue Demons for the Irish collecting 24 saves and the Irish return home for an after­
something he has learned from ex­

last night. For more on the game, see Larry Burke's story on page bringing his record to 10-l. noon game scheduled for 2:30 p.m. 
perience -a good experience.

10. On Saturday, the Irish again got of at the ACC. 





