Aloha -page 3 



VOL XIX, NO. 71 the indcpcntknt ~tutknt ncw~papn ~tTl mg notn dame ;~nd ~ailll man·~ MONDAY, DECEMBER 10,1984 

Student-run store to begin operations at start of semester 
By DAN McCULLOUGH general store, at the present time, News Editor does not guarantee space for the store in Lafortune after it is 
The student-run general store will renovated. open the first c.lay after Christmas In the letter, Tyson also said, break, according to Rob Bertino, stu­"While all ofus were impres!>ed with dent body president. the proposal and presentation some 
The plan for the store was ap­of my reservations still exist. proved by Father David Tyson, vice Therefore, if the store is to be estab­president for student affairs, on lished, it must be within the Friday. guidelines and conditions estab­
According to the final report of lished above. the Committee for the Establish­"Moreover, if at any time, the ment of a Student General Store in above conditions and stipulations LaFortune, the store will be open are violated, or if in my judgement from 4 to 8 p.m. Monday through the store is not serving the best in­Friday in Room 2-C of LaFortune. terests of the student body and Uni­
versity, I will be forced to exercise A loan of $5,000 for the start-up my prerogative as Vice President 
Freshmen Mike Reymann (foreground) and system is down. They reported that the system went costs of the store was made to the and require the operations of the Brian Koehr catch up on some work in the com· down at4 a.m. yesterday and it was still down yes­Student Activities Board from Stu­store to cease." puter room in Fitzpatrick Hall while the computer terday afternoon. dent Government. The plan had previously been 
On Nov. 28 the Committee pre­unanimously approved by both the sented the plan for the store to the Student Senate and the Hall Presi­Campus Life Council which unani­dents' Council. 
mously passed it. The resolution According to Bertino, the com­then went to Tyson for final ap­mittee's 86-page report completely proval. covered every facet of the business. 
Security men disguised as workers 
Committee Chairman Pat Browne "One thing we are really concerned presented a detailed report to Tyson with is that the store is managed Auoclatcd Press Kuwaitis, who the hijackers had said nance work if they planned to blow and other administration represen­well," he said. they had killed along with two up the aircraft. tatives last Wednesday. On Fric.lay "The student allitirs people 
TEHRAN,Iran -Iranian security American passengers, were found The hijackers then asked for a Tyson sent a letter to Bertino in seemed to be pretty impressed by men, disguised as maintenance alive but injured aboard the plane. doctor and two cleaning men to which he gave the plan his approval the completeness of the report," workers and a doctor, yesterc.lay It did not elaborate, but hostages come to the plane, and three dis­with certain restrictions. said Browne. overpowered four hijackers who freed earlier said there were two guised security men immediately These restrictions were: The report addressed the prob­had threatened to blow up a Kuwaiti bodies bound and gagged in the went to the aircraft. The "doctor" •The general store will not ex­lems of monopoly at Notre Dame jet at Tehran's airport and freed the cockpit of the plane, and it was not entered first and the two "cleaning pand its inventory, at any time, with and the need for a variety ofservices remaining hostages of the six·day or­known if they were dead or alive. men" who followed disarmed one of respect to product types without for the students. It said the deal. There was no change in the account the hijackers and threw him down the approval of the Assistant Vice Bookstore believes Notre Dame stu­
The gunmen, who had comman­that two Americans had been slain -the landing steps. President for Student Services. dents are brand conscious and will deered the Airbus A-300 jetliner one on Tuesday shortly after the jet •No costs and expenses will be in­not supply discount quality items carrying 161 people on Tuesday, landed here and the other on At that point, the man hidden be­curred by the University for the op­and that money conscious students were "severely beaten up" during Thursday. hind the generator began throwing eration of the store. are forced to buy brand items that the assault, according to the Islamic smoke bombs. Heavy gunfire •No further loans will be made by they don't want and cannot afford. Republic News Agency. IRNA gave the following report of erupted from security forces that student government for the opera­"The store will offer an alternative 
!RNA gave conflicting reports the rescue operation. had surrounded the plane as a cover tion of the store without the ap­to people who are not in the about the numbers ofhostages freed At 2:40 p.m. EST, the hijackers for the raid, but no shots were ex­proval of the Director of Student Bookstore's market, such as off­from the Kuwait Airways jet, first asked for a generator to he con­changed with the hijackers. Activities and the Assistant Vice campus students and those who saying seven and then nine, Includ­nected to the airplane. It was taken President for Student Services. want to save a little money," said Ing two Americans. It said the to the aircraft 25 minutes later-with The three hijackers inside the •An audit ofthe store will be done Browne. "We are not in competition hostages were unharmed In the as­a security man hidden behind it. plane were disarmed and "severely by the University at the end of the with the Bookstore." !tault. IRNA did not say why the hijack­beaten up" during the 20-minute spring semester. 
!RNA also reported that two ers wanted a generator or mainte-raid. •The establishment of the student see STORE page 6 
free hostages in Iranian hijacking 
Hesburgh addresses-council on values in higher education 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY mitment to having more minority tention on maximum material worked pretty hard to increase the rect when he said decisions affecting StaffNepot"ter faculty members and educators_ rewards for minimal working hours. number of minority graduates. University life must be made on ob­"It seems to me that new and crea­The methodology of the market Whatever the number is, the num­jective grounds. Gordon said there 
"Graduate schools will be at their tive efforts are needed, such as place is not necessarily ours, too. ber is too low." can be no compromise if it would very best when they cherish and recruiting the most promising "Excellence, and only excellence, The Advanced Studies staff at­prohibit the cause for excellence foster academic excellence," said minority students in our own under­should be the rule," said the Univer­tends minority conferences across Hesburgh outlined. University President Father graduate colleges," said Hesburgh. sity president. the nation and six Ethnic Minority Theodore Hesburgh in an address to "The best graduate schools gener­Hesburgh said in an interview af­Awards are given annually to blacks, The problem with faculty uni­the Council of Graduate Schools in ally pay the best salaries, but that terward, he delivered the address at hispanics and native Americans, said onization, said Gordon, "is nobody is Wa~hington, D.C., on Saturday. alone does not make them excel­the request ofRobert Gordon, chair­Gordon. bargaining for excellence. We never 
"For l'ducation to be truly lent," said the University president. man of the council and vice presi­"We (Notre Dame administra­hear of anybody striking for com­meaningful, it must also endow a He mentioned the need to support dent of Advanced Studies at the tors) are not paying our faculty as puters." person with values. Of course, we computer f.tcilities, research and University ofNotre Dame. much as we should. The emphasis can educate our students to be com­better libraries as ways to achieve Gordon said Hesburgh and Dr. now is to increase the size ofthe fac­Briefly touching upon the nuclear petent, but the further question is: excellence. Steven Muller, president of Johns ulty," said Gordon. He said progress arms race, Hesburgh said it is "the How will they use their com­"I find administrators ultra­Hopkins University (who also is being made in both areas. moral imperative of our institutions petence, for self alone, selfishly, or cautious in doing what they know spoke) were "the two greatest to indicate to our students, in the for others, too, in service," Hes­they should do to achieve greater speakers I've ever heard_ They (the Concerning Hesburgh's point course of their years with us, the di­burgh a.~ked the educators, who rep­excellence, especially because they educators) are still talking about it. about the growing threat oflawsuits mensions of the nuclear threat to resent the 390 schools which award know if they do it, a lawsuit is bound "Most people talk about the tech­against universities, Gordon said, humanity. 98 percent of the doctorates and 94 to happen," said Hesburgh. nology ofproducing graduates. Hes­"We live in an age of too many percent of the master degrees given Hesburgh also addressed the burgh talked about equality and lawyers. Let's assume somebody Is "Graduate education in America, annually. growing movement toward uni­quality. He struck a note," said Gor­denied tenure. You can bet your bot­for all its faults and problems and 
Hesburgh also said graduate onization at universities. don. tom dollar, we'll end up in court." challenges, has never been schools must strengthen their com-"Unionization tends to focus at-Gordon said Notre Dame, "has Gordon said Hesburgh was cor-stronger," said Hesburgh. 
,' 
' r 
t 
The Observer 
In Brief 
Today is Human Rights Day. President ofSaint Mary's John M. Duggan and University President Father Theodore Hesburgh have signed a Proclamation Calling on Governments to Stop Torture. Torture is government practice in one third of the nations ofthe world. Amnesty International members at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame appealed to Duggan and Hesburgh to do something to stop torture. The Proclamation states: "We proclaim our con· demnatlon of torture wherever it occurs and endorse Amnesty In­ternational's Campaign to Abolish Torture." The AmQesty International Campaign Against Terture offers governments a Twelve Point Program to end secret detention, prosecute torturers and rehabilitate victims. Amnesty International works impartially to free prisoners of conscience, abolish torture and execution. -Tbe Obseroer 
The spitting image ofSanta, Toxey Cathey, is 
making a career of playing the jolly old saint for department-store 
chains and calls it the "most satisfying thing that ever happened to 
me." The 64-year-old retired businessman says he got started in the 
Santa business after he grew a beard to appear in a Fresno State Uni­
versity film project. People began mistaking him for St. Nick. 
Motorists honked their horns at him. Without solicitation, little boys 
started reciting their Christmas lists to him. 
Cathey is now the official Santa Claus for two department-store 
chains, appearing in brochures and advertising. "I have never been 
so loved in all my life," he said. -AP 
Stephanie, "The Super Cow," brought a super price at a fancy auction where women in glittering gowns mingled With cowboys in boots and Stetsons on the Southfork Ranch of "Dallas" television fame. Stephanie, a world-champion milk­producing Holstein owned by Long Haven Farms of Clayton, Mich., was on the block less than two minutes Saturday before she was bought for about S1 million. Auction organizer Robert Price III of Price Dairies Inc., an El Paso company that raises cattle for high-tech embryo transfer processes, said the cow produced 51,000 pounds of milk last ye:rr. enough to fill 104,000 glasses. -AP 
Fifty tons of marij~ wer~ alleged!~ smuggled into two Florida counties by 11 people mcluding a sheriff's deputy and two former school board members according to charge:. made by Florida authorities. Dixie County Deputy E.R. "Buddy" Sheppard, 45; Eugene Van Aernam, 45, andJohn B. Polk, 48, former members of the Dixie School Board; and eight other people were arrested Friday on an indictment stemming from a three-year investigation, police said. -AP 
Of Interest 
National Drunk Driving AwarenessWeek begins today. The Mothers Against Drunk Driving group will sponsor a candlelight vigil tonight at 6 at the County-City Build­ing courtyard. The vigil is being held to remember those who have been killed or affected by a drunk driver.-Tbe Obseroer 
Notre Dame Public Radio, WSND, will broadcast the South Bend Symphony's Saturday concert tonight at 8. The performance features Kenneth Kiesler conducting Britten's "Men ofGoodwill," Mahler's "The Wayfarer" and Beethoven's Sym­phony No. 9, "Choral." WSND will also present "Concert Com­ments," and informal discussion before the concert hosted by Kiesler.-Tbe Obseroer 
Weather 
Cloudy today with a 20 percent chance of morning showers. Becoming partly sunny in the afternoon. High in the mid 40s. Tonight, clear and cool. Low around 30. Sunny and warmer tomorrow. High in the low 50s. -AP 

The Observer-
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) i• published Monday mrough Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by me studerlts of me University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig Design Assistant ..................Andl Schnuck Typesetters .................. Camyann Reynolds Tracy Brlngardener News Edltor.............................}ohn Mennel Copy Editor ........................... , ..... Frank Lipo Sports Copy Editor.............. Marc Ramirez Viewpoint Layout................ Kevin Becker Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe Features Layout.............. Dana Bainbridge ND Day Edltor ........................... Katy Doyle Ad Deslgn ................................. Fred Nelson 
jeanne Grammens 
Photographer ............................ Carol Gales 
Typlst .............................. .Bi/1 Hlghducheck 
~ ----------------. 
Monday, December 10, 1984 -page 2 
How do you say 'sorry' to 200,000 poisoned people? 

"Technology pioneered and advanced by Union Carbide touches your life many times each day." 
--From a booklet introducing prospective employees to Union Carbide 
Imagine you are Warren Anderson. You are the chair­
man of one of the largest chemical companies in the 
world. Aweek ago, you worked for a respected multina­
tional corporation. Now, you represent the company 
responsible for the worst environmental accident in 
history. 

What, exactly, does one say to the citizens of India? Two thousand of their brethren are dead, and 200,000 more have been affected to some degree by highly toxic methyl isocyanate gas. Genetic disorders will affect un­told generations to come. Moreover, the gas con­taminated livestock and 
Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 
Inside Monday 


tee the safety of the plant owned by Union Carbide In­dia Ltd., the corporation's subsidiary. 
"We had always been assured that this factory operated under the highest safety levels," said Arjun Singh, chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, India's largest state. But who was assuring whom? Why was Singh con­tent to trust the word oflocal company officials before last Sunday's disa.Ster? 
Yet even with stricter monitoring, a community still can be vulnerable. In the United States, where citizens 
like to believe that such agriculture, and much ofthe accidents could never hap­area's cropland may stay bar­pen, thousands of chemical ren for years. waste dumps have stained 
Anderson left the country the pristine landscape, and yesterday without saying acid rain continues to alter anything. He cancelled a delicate ecosystems of the press conference scheduled Northeast. for Saturday in New Delhi In Institute, W. Va., 
after meeting with Indian citizens are only beginning Foreign Minister M. K. Ras­to ask Union Carbide offi­
gotra. A Union Carbide cials what would seem to be spokesman said Anderson an obvious question: What will hold a news conference exactly are you making in 
today at 1 p.m. at the com­there? The small town near pany's headquarters in Dan­1° Charleston is the site for the bury, Conn. company's only other met­So far, the reassurances hyl isocyanate plant. from Union Carbide have "It's like a big awakening," been about as specific as a said Barbara Clark, an in­
political promise. Yesterday, the company did pledge $1 million to current relief ef­forts and planned to fund an orphanage to care for children whose parents were killed by the accident. But further compensation will not come quite as easily, for 
quantifying the damage will involve untold numbers of 
Indian officials, company engineers and scientists, and 
worst ofall--lawyers. 

San Francisco attorney Melvin Belli believes he already has the appropriate figure: $1 5 billion. In a class-action suit filed in behalfofall of the victims, Belli alleges Union Carbide was negligent in the design and operation ofthe Bhopal plant and had offered "woefully inadequate" compensation to the victims.of the acci­dent. 
It would be even more tragic if this catastrophe becomes just one more negligence suit, replete with finger-pointing rhetoric. Union Carbide certainly bears the ultimate Fesponsibility for the safe operation of its plants, but Indian officials evidently did little to guara.1­
structor at the West Virginia State College in town. "We are really amazed that they were making such a toxic chemical there," said another resident. 
Residents of any community should assume much less and inquire much more about the operation oflocal factories and plants. Such public pressure can only rein­force corporate responsibility. But as is especially evi­dent in Bhopal, the corporation must take the initiative, regardless ofgovernmental monitoring. 
Union Carbide failed, and it somehow now must compensate the victims of its error. As one Western diplomat said, "A lot ofpeople are dead and, one way or another, someone is going to pay for it." 
The saddest part of the disaster is that it takes a tragedy to prevent another, that it apparently takes a huge monetary penalty to insure responsibility. 


Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to t; from Chicago's O'Hare 
lEAVE lEAVE 

ARRIVE ARRIVE 

NOTRE MICHIANA 
MICHIANA NOTRE 

DAME REGIONAl 
REGIONAl OAME 

BUS AIRPORT 
ARRIVE 
lEAVE 
AIRPORT BUS 

SHELTER SOUTH BENO 
O'HARE 
O'HARE 
SOUTH BENO SHElTER 

4:20a.m. 4:40am 
8:30 a m
6:00a.m 
11:50 a.m 12:05 p.m 

6:20a.m. 6:40a.m 
10:30 a m
8:00am 
1:50pm 2:05p.m 

8:20a.m. 8·40 a.m 
12:30 p.m.
10:00 a m 
3:50p.m. 4:05p.m 

10:20 a.m. 10-40 a.m 
2:30p.m
12:00 p.m 
5:50p.m 6:05p.m 

12:20 p.m. 12:40 p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
7:50p.m. 8:05pm
2:00p.m. 

2:20p.m 2:40p.m. 
6:30p.m.
4:00p.m. 
9:50p.m. 10:05 p.m 

4:20p.m 4:40p.m 
8:30p.m
6:00p.m. 
11:50 p.m 12:05 a m 

6:20p.m. 6:40p.m 
10:30 p.m.
8:00p.m. 
1.50 a.m. 2:05a.m. 

8·20 p.m 8:40p.m. 
12:30 a.m
10:00 p m 
3:50a.m. 4:05a.m. 

SOUTH BEND ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 28. 1984 FOR RESERVATIONS CALl FOR COMPlETE liST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES 
(219) 674-6993 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT 
The Observer Monday, December 10, 1984 -page 3 



The Observer/Carol Gales 

Newly appointed OffCampus Social Commis­OffCampus Commtstoner Doug Honeywell. Story sioner jack Seiler (left) dtcusses proposals with Below. Student Body President Rob Bertino (sitting) and 
Seiler named as new commissioner 
By MIKE MILLEN 
Senior StaffReporter 
In a move designed to help off­t·ampus social events become "more organized," Student Body President Rob Bertino appointed senior Jack Seiler to a nc:wly-crc:atc:d cabinet po­sition. 
Called the "Off-Campus Social Commlsslonc:r," the: post came about "he{·ause of the Increased demand for structured, group· oriented social events," said Bertino. 
Bertino added the position was also designed to "take some of the for people who live off-campus," burden off of Doug Honeywell's Seiler said, adding It will become back" for allocating the remaining "more organized." He hopes to have S I 800 of the off-campus social two formals next semester. budget. Honeywell Is the Off­
•

Campus Commissioner. Bertino stressed the Importance 
Duties of the commissioner are to of creating the position and putting oversee the various social events one person in charge of the funds. which are planned for off-campus "It's the fact that we're dealing with .~tudents. so much money," he said. 
Seiler, who was president of Flanner Hall and involved in the Because this is a new position, marketing club last year, ran the off­Seiler will remain In the post only campus formal earlier this semester. until the cabinet Is appointed by 
"We want to Improve social life next year's student body president. 
Chisholm to speak at Notre Dame 
By AMY STEPHAN 
Senior StaffReporter 
Twelve years before Geraldine Ferraro and Jesse Jackson made headlines for their respective roles In the 1984 presidential campaign, Shirley Chisholm made history as the first black woman to seriously campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
Chisholm, Notre Dame's 1984-85 
Distinguished American Woman 
Lecturer, will speak tonight at 7:30 
In the Center for Continuing Educa­
•lon. 'Ibe former New York Congres­swoman will discuss "American 
Politics --A Clear Choice?" The guished chair at Mount Holyoke public is invited. College in Holyoke, Mass. While In ·congress, Chisholm was Representing the 12th District in 
the senior Democratic woman and Brooldyn, Chisholm was appointed the only Black American to sit on the to the House Agriculture Subcom­House Rules Committee. In 1982 mittee on Forestry and Rural she retired after 14 years in Villages during her freshman year in 
Congress, noting the difficulty of 1969. 
serving her electorate while con­Because this position had no rela­servatives coqtrolled the govern-tion to the needs of her con­ment In Washington. · stituency, she made the 
In announcing her retirement, unprecedented move to have her Chisholm said she planned to fur­name removed from the committee. ther the "cause of peace, prosperity She was then appointed to the Veter­and equality for all Americans" ans' Affairs Committee and later to through writing, teaching and lec­the Education and Labor Commit­turing. She currently holds a distln-tee. 
Santa Claus is paraplaning to Saint Mary's 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
News Staff 
Santa will leave the North Pole early this year to make a special visit to Saint Mary's. 
Wednesday at 4 p.m., Santa will pilot his high-tech paraplane to the softball field north of campus. All students and members of the South Bend community are Invited to at­tend this holiday event at no cost. 
Weather permitting, Doug Ricks (alias Santa), president of the Great Lakes Association of Paraplanes, will pilot the parafoll-type parachute. It is propelled by two 15-horsepower engines. 
James Paradis, chairman of the art department at Saint Mary's, Is a member of the Great Lakes Associa­tion of Paraplanes. In cooperation with Sister Karol Jackowski, dean of student affairs, Paradis arranged for Santa to stop on campus, carrying candy and cheer for all. 
Paradis said this was the first time Santa had ever flown to Saint Mary's. 
"I think this is a fascinating way to get people in the Christmas spirit. We thought It would be fun for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students to be a part of this," he said. 
Following Santa's landing, a recep­tion hosted by Saint Mary's students will be held at the Haggar College Center. 
Members of the Great Lakes Asso­ciation of Paraplanes will be available to answer any questions and explain the quicldy-evolving sport to Interested students. Every­one is Invited to attend. 
Aloha tickets selling faster than anticipated 
By BETH WHEPLEY 
News Staff 
More Notre Dame fans than originally expected are planning to beat the cold and journey to Hawaii to see the Irish in the Aloha Bowl, according to Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski. 
Ticket sales, which have been in progress since last week, have totaled approximately 600 to indi­viduals. 90 percent of that total were sold to alumni. 
Another 600 tickets have been sold to groups, such as various travel agencies In the area. First Source Travel is offering a package in which a fan has the opportunity to ride with the official Notre Dame party In a charter flight out of Chicago. The agency has half the seats on the Boeing 747 reserved for potential bowl-bound fans. 
Although allotted 8300 seats in the 50,000 seat Hula Bowl, Notre Dame accepted only 3500. 
"There was no point in taking the full 8 300 and just sending them (the tickets) back to them," said Bobinski. One of last year's Aloha Bowl participants, Penn State, took only 1700 tickets. 
Bobinski accounted for the slightly higher sales than expected by explaining that many people had Intended to spend their holidays In the Islands, regardless of the Aloha Bowl. 
"Since they were already going there, they are just buying the tick­ets now," he said. 
Still, because of the cost of the trip, most students will remain on the mainland this break. The Student 
Memorial Mass to be held for Sister Emily George 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
AssistantNews Editor 
A Memorial Mass for Sister Emily George, R.S.M., a visiting scholar at Notre Dame who was killed last Thursday In an auto accident, will be held tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. In Sa­cred Heart Church. 
George, who was at Notre Dame's Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism, was killed when her car apparently lost control on the snow-sUcked road and sUd Into the other lane. It was struck by another car, driven by David Knepple of Vandalia, Mich., accor­ding to Cass County police reports. 
The accident occurred  on  Mic­ 
higan  60, four  miles  east  of  
Cassopolis, Mich.  

She was taken to Lee Memorial Hospital where she was pronounced dead on arrival. She was 49. _A fo~~er president of Mercy Col­

MAKE $12.200 FOR COLLEGE WHILE YOU'RE CiOINCi TO COLLEGE. 
Want a part-time job that doesn't hurt your grades7 Or campus life I Give your local Army Reserve unit a weekend a month and a couple of summers during college, and you can earn over $12,200for rniiE"ge. 
Up to $4,000 in college aid is yours just for joining most units. Another $6,000 for four years of monthly weekends and two-week summer stints. Plus over $2,200 that you1l earn during two summer training periods. And you may qualify for the College Loan Repayment Program. AU while you're getting the most out of college. And doing the most you can part -rime for your country. 
You don't have to wait for college to join the Army Reserve. Ifyou're 17 or older and a junior or senior in high school, join us now1There's no better parr-time job in town. 
Interested/For more information, call any of the numbers listed below Or stop by. 
\1'-.. """ ..• •.""' •. '" 
ARMY RESERVE. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE, 

PIZZERIA AND PUB 
I 

130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 
277-4519 
Mondclr  Sunday  
16",11tem  16", 11tem  16", 11tem  
$6.95  $6.95  $6.95  
~n" belor" 11  call h••tore i 1  call belore 9:30  
Expires 12/10/114  Expires 12/12/114  Expires 12/16/84  

-------------------~--------------­
Activities Board has decllned to of­fer a package this year because ofthe expense factor, sal<.! a spokesperson from the SAB. 
Kevin McGovertl, SAB manager, discovered that in addition to the cost, It would be "nearly Impossible" to obtain a hotel room on the island of Hawaii at this point. 
"Last year Penn State found the same thing -It was too expensive," said McGovern. 
The SAB was able to sponsor a trip to the Uberty Bowl In Memphis, Tenn. last year, In which two bus­loads of students departed from Chicago for the game. 
"Back home there will be a strong showing," said Darrell Young, presi­dent of the Notre Dame Hawaii Club. The club, in conjunction with the Notre Dame Alumni Association of Hawaii, is planning a full schedule of events for displaced Domers. 
On Dec. 24, there will be an air­port reception at four p.m. Hawaii time to gPC:et the team, cheerleaders and other members of the Irish en­tourage. There will be a pep rally In Walkiki at 6 p.m. on Friday the 28th. 
The club will hold a tallgater at the stadium on Saturday, with the Sunday events consisting ofa Mass at 9 a.m. and breakfast at 10 a.m. 
Reservations for the Mass and breakfast may be made by calling the president of the Hawall Alumni Club upon arrival in Hawaii at 395-8491. 
Throughout their stay in Hawaii, students and alumni will be able to take advantage of a six-day hospitality suite in both lbe Sheraton Walldld and The Turtle Bay Hilton. 
lege of Detroit, where she received her undergraduate degree in 1958, George was the Assistant Adminis­trator General ofthe Sisters of Mercy of the Union. 
She came to Notre Dame to return to research and writing, according to Jay Dolan, a.'isoclate professor of history and director of the Cushwa Center. 
"She was studying with me," he saJd, "She had just undertaken a major research project on Ellen Starr." 
George had published four books, the latest in 1982 titled "Martha W. Griffiths". 
Her greatest Interest was in wo­men's history, Dolan said. 
Some of her other experiences In­cluded work as an associate director of a shelter for battered women and as a staff member at the Frances Warde Study Center. 
~~--~~~~--~~_. 
AIS 
Shipping and Packaging 
3617 Mlehawaka Ave Mlehawaka at Logan 
We •hlp Exclu•lvely 
VPS 
282-2556 

--------------~--------------------------­
The Observer Monday, December 10, 1984 ·page 4 

Reagan begins budget battle 
Associated Press foremost, they wanted to continue lators that they can stand to take the policies that would assure strong strong medicine Reagan is prescrib­
WASHINGTON President economic growth," Reagan said ing to meet his goal of holding total Reagan Hopes to build congressional during a meeting with reporters federal spending for the I986 fiscal support for his ambitious deficit­Friday. year that begins next Oct. I to cur­reduction effort by arguing that last "So the people voted against tax rent levels. month's election returns translate increases, and they \Were right," directly into support of his plan to Reagan said. "And they voted against Accomplishing that objective will 
freeze, reduce or eliminate almost wasteful government spending, and take s42 billion in savings next year. all domestic federal programs. they were right." The president ordered his Cabinet "In the November elections, the Now Reagan and his senior ad­last week to come up with $33.6 bil­people made clear that first and visers are moving to convince legis-lion in domestic spending cuts. 
Unplugged systeiD at fault in flood 
By KEITH HARRISONJr. "One of the contractors should the carpet ~n Washington H~l Assistant News Edttor have plugged. it in," Dedrick said. theater. Dedrick said the water was 
"But we had so many contractors picked up with a wet vacuum and It wasn't plugged in. over there -carpenters, electricians, fans would dry the carpet. "It won't The electrical insulation system sheet metal men -I really couldn't be hurt in any way," he said. 
designed to keep a sprinkler pipe in say who was responsible." The present insulation system is 
Washington Hall from freezing was Damage to the band rooms was going to be replaced -but not specif­not plugged in, causing the sprinkler not extensive, Dedrick said. Band ically because of this incident, said to burst last week, according to Director Robert O'Brien said some architect Chris. Nye of Cole As­Donald Dedrick, director of the ceiling tiles had to be replaced and sociates, the company which de­physical plant. several desk tops had been damaged. signed the system. 
The sprinkler froze and broke last "Also, we still don't know about "The present system was only a 
The Observer/Carol Gales 
Wednesday, sending water into the condition of que copy machine temporary one," Nye said. "We in­Looks like two three band rooms on the east side of and several other office supplies," stalled it two years ago, and it was Washington Hall. O'Brien said. "We have a lot ofcom­scheduled to be replaced very soon. 
Last weekend's 24-hour Ctrcle-K basketball marathon raised 
Dedrickdid not know who was re­pany representatives coming over to Actually, even before the break took 
$625 for Muscular Dystrophy. Tbe event began at 7 p.m. Saturday. 
sponsible for plugging in the insula­explain the exact damage to us." place, we had planned to start in­
Keenan defeated Fisher in thefinal game. 

Move from, Band Annex considered 
By GWEN TADDONIO 
News Staff 
A move from the present Band Building is being considered for the bands ofNotre Dame. 
Robert O'Brien, band director, described the Band Building, used for storage and rehearsal, as being too small to suit the band's needs. During the football season the band must practice outdoors since the building can't fit everyone. 
O'Brien said either the various bands will be assigned to another building on campus or anew build­ing will be constructed to house their needs. Administrators are leaning towards the latter. 
t 
Donald Dedrick, director of the 
physical plant, said plans for a new building are in the early schematic 
, ~ r 
stage of development. Preliminary sketches have been drawn up, accor­ding to Dedrick. All that needs to be 
~ 
done is the pinpointing ofa sight and the formalization ofplans. 
~ 
The delay in action on the move is a result of the new law school addi­tion and the anticipation of an addi­
tion to Lafortune. 
I 
,' It is not yet known how much a move would cost the University or where the funds would come from. 
~ 
' •
' 
, 5 Cf3esfCWi.shesforthe i
' 
r : 9-lo/idayc5ea.sonl : 
J •
• 
. : 
'······················ 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes 
Letters ' Manuscripts Word Processing 
CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 
tion system. The water also dampened part of stalling a new one Monday (today) 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
S schic~ll 
~ 

. uper 
Specially Fashioned in our school colors 
' 

Get a Free Schick Super II Razor with two Schick Super II twin blade cartridges and a coupon good for 25¢ off your next Super II purchase plus ... 
A chance to win a Schick Super II Athletic Bag in your school bookstore's 
.sweepstakes. Every bookstore has at least 25 or more winners! 
Just fill out the coupon below and bring it to the bookstore to receive your special razor. 
The Super II twin blade shaving system features Super II twin blades that are custom honed for close, comfortable shaves. 
Quantities are limited and will be distributed on a first come first served basis. Act now an·d experience great shaves courtesy of Schick Super II. 
ONE PER STUDENT ONLY 
r --------• --­STORE COUPON ­
To rece1ve your treelcll',. school razor. hrst f1\11n

I Sch ~ n Ithe reqUired mformatlon Then bnng th1s coupon to the bOokstore HurryI quan\1\les are ilm1ted
I SUPer I 
ONE PER STUDENT ONLY.

I I
Available at: I Name'-------------------------------------------I
THE HAMMES­
Address.________________________________________
I I
NOTRE DAME I BOOK STORE City,________________State ___Zip Code ___ I 
I Phone#_____________________ I I I
This coupon is your entry to the Schick Super II Athletic Bag Sweepstakes. 
... ... 
The Observer Monday, December 10, 1984 -page 5 
De-mocrats look to new faces, ideas to reorganize and strengthen party 
Associated Press House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill of politics. Massachusetts and Senate Demo-Conservatives suggested that he 
WASHINGTON· Still reeling from cratic Leader Robert C. Byrd ofWest was viewed by many of their con­President Reagan's re-election Virginia. stituents as one of the causes of the landslide, Democrats in the House It was as a "new face" that Chiles current enormous deficits. and Senate are searching for new presented his unexpected can-ln fact, Rep. Charles Stenholm, D­faces and new ideas as they seek to didacy to unseat Byrd from the post Texas, a leader of the group of "Boll reorganize their party, but there is of minority leader. The race will be Weevil" southern conservatives disagreement in the rank.-; over what decided Wednesday by secret ballot who helped President Reagan win direction this change should take. at a closed-door caucus of the 47 major economic victories in the 
"There's obviously been a lot of Democrats who will compose the House in 1981 and 1982, mounted a concern about the party and its new Senate. ' short-lived challenge to O'Neill. future role," said Rep. Thomas Foley, Chiles is widely viewed as the un-O'Neill's announcement that he'll D-Wash., House Democratic whip. derdog in the race. But the fact that retire in 1986 puts Rep. Jim Wright, "The Democrats have lost four out he even mounted the revolt showed D-Texas, far more conservative than of the last five presidential elections. the degree of upheaval within the O'Neill, in line for the job. There's a lot of thinking about how party. In past years, Byrd has com· "When you lose the presidential we can do a more effective job at the manded nearly undivided loyalty election two timt>s In a row, there national level." from his fellow Democrats. has to be unrest," said Rep. Richard
The (lbKrvcr/Carol Gala. 
However, Foley thinks the change O'Neill was renominated by his A. Gephardt of Missouri, one of a
Four ball, side pocket 
should be "evolutionary," rather Democratic colleagues last week to group of younger Democrats now 
Stanford Freshmen john MahL>r and Adam Hirshfeld (shooting) than a wholesale change of leader­a final, fifth two-year term as Hou.se · coming to power and the new chair­take some time offbeforefinals to shoot somepool in the basement ship. Other Democrats, like Sen. speaker -but only after questioning man of the House Democratic ofJ.al'ortune. Lawton Chiles of Florida, are less pa­by some Democrats over whether Caucus. 
tient. the 71-year-old Boston lawmaker 
In any event, Democrats are rest­provided the right image for the He said a major job confronting less and groping for solutions, party party in the 1980s. Democrats now is "rebuilding the leaders agree. A few leading members of a mechanical side of the party." He
Help Notre Dame fight This imraparty conflict has been younger generation of liberals sug­contends that elected Democrats evidenced in open challenges to the gested privately that O'Neill, al­"must take an active role In the man· two men who for the past eight years though beloved, was out ofstep with agement" of the Democratic Na­have led their parties In Congress, the times, a symbol of New Deal tional Committee.
Multiple Sclerosis Persian,Gulf hostilities continue 
and win a free 
MTVCONCERT Associated Press waters off the exclusion zone In his distress signal, the captain imposed by Iraq around Kharg, said told marine salvage bureaus In Bah­Organizational Meeting: MANAMA, Bahrain -An Iraqi air marine salvage executives in Bah­rain the damage to his vessel was force warplane fired an Exocet rain and Dubai, who spoke on condi­"negligible." There was no fire, and
Monday, December 10-7:00p.m. 
missile at a Bahamas-registered oil tion ofanonymity. none of the 32 crew members was
In the New Orleans Room, 1st floor LaFortune 
tanker in the Persijm Gulf south of The raids brought to 59 the Injured, the captain reported. Iran's Kharg Island oil terminal yes­number of ships hit by warring Iraq terday, Iraq and marine salvage ex­and Iran in the gulfsincejanuary, ac­In announcing the raid, the Iraqi
EVERYONE IS WELCOME ecutives said. No casualties were cording to figures compiled by the high command reiterated Its warn­reported. London-based Uoyd's shipping in· ing to international shipping com­
An Iraqi military spokesman in telligence unit. panies not to send vessels to Iranian Baghdad announced the raid on the The sources, who spoke on condi­ports. 163,155-ton tanker, the B.T. Inves­tion they were not identified, said tor. the captain told them that a water­Instead of proceeding to Kharg, 
The attack occurred a day after an skimming Exocet missile punched a the Investor headed to the United Iranian Phantom jet fighter rocketed gaping hole in a portwing tank, just Arab Emirates port of Dubai for re­a Kuwaiti supply boat In neutral above the waterline. pairs, said salvage executives.
Petal your Affection 

CAITLE­
Miner ate human flesh 
54553 Tma II., U 23 
~~~ive

OUR BED OFFERS:
(ocro11 from Martin's) 
* Facial Tanner

Hours:12:30-5:30 
~~~ * No Coloring Creams Needed to Obtain Tan TAIPEI, Taiwan-A miner rescued 
Located in the basement \ 
* No Burning, Peeling, or Drying from a coal mine disaster yesterday
* Save wi~ Ova Bulbs after being entombed for four daysrt-:=:of:"'\.La_Fo-rtun_e_GAR 0 EN5 * Your Own Private Room for TaMing said hunger drove him to eat the If These Factors Are Present, You've flesh of a dead miner who had been 
Chosen The Proper Sun Tan led sealed up with him after an explo­cltp and &a\'e-dlp and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip ~ ~ ._..~_ I a.....-s-;,. IJ~ 1sion n c. ~ -DI---SU ----~ R. aidth & dth
-c0 nset•ne I escuers s ey lOUD e sur­
! U J ~ REfiEIH YOUR TAN IN JON1JTIS..-17 vivor, Chou Chung-lu, 56, more than &. ~ Call 272-o312, 272-1471 a mile down in the the pit after spot·
5 2 3 9•77 9 3 
.S:! ~•l•lit=-J!C:rs:Q.IIi.laler-lati'S::S!I:Ili•!•'I.CIIt•'•llillwt•!•:. •--•ting the light ofhis miner's helmet. 11 _ The bodies of five miners were 
c. recovered from the tunnel of the
I k•
!"' Anxious and worried aboutfinals? ~ Ft•na 5 00 lftg Haishan Ylken Mine, raising the &. Try tapes 30 or 37. ~ 1 death toll to Sl. Another 42 miners ;< -••'-i' ~ are missing.
ru••y,
II liiLt nut Ill From his hospital bed, Chou told /o, ~ ~l~-:!:,11111 &. c I ~~ • reporters that On the firSt day after ,S: : :::!:!..!"=.. --,_,~ § he was trapped, he survived on
! , -•u.e ortu c-.....1.. c.utol• IIi Call today for a complete examination and 20% OFF any water from a ground pool. on the : ::!.~:!.~--... •• -· vuh 1• n pair of glasses with your student or faculty I.D. card. next day, he said, he groped around 
10
5 .......,....•• ..-. .a: the t lti "od andb dinto
,. :: 
=-=-~ unne or .o umpe n zo -~· _,u,. 111&. • Large selection of fashion frames the bodies ofdead miners. .S: ~ :!~.:-::.-=!!::.. ,.,. •• eo,. lllth u "s • All types of contact lenses ,_,.. He said he ate pieces offlesh from 
111 u ... •• _, ortu '-'U.O•• : '"-0 N one body until he was rescued yes­&. !! =.:.:;-~.~.:..... n • Prescriptions filled ~ terday morninR.
i E ! •Dr. Ronald L. Snyder ~::::-r.........R...C........;.s .....a ......,
~=~:;:!:=-C<o!'fl-• ~ .....o._ ....CO ....H........r 
!: :.-::':.!""..~~~:.:-:.::::-· :I • Dr. Patrick Albert : ::!:"!:'~::;-:!. '::•:!'u.. It Just north of McDonald's JO l•fatu.U• 01' l.oftf on Ironwood. I 
styt•

., ... ,. c.,. "'" • lrokH ..,.,t••hl• 1ng
.. Duth a111111. o,tna 1 
•s U...nuMl•l Crtaf 
to ...,t... f"rt..a 
160 ladp SliPU of .,. doobol Prolll• 
111 ...,...u~t• DKblou about Drl.nll1na o\O.J Self uaarU.¥e~Mu .au a:....••• of c.uac:t lulltll.n& 
Ul ...., h Depreaa)on 



.au .._ to O.al wittt. p.,..aaal• UJ ..,..•••'-aa a Ltfaatpla Ul a.o-La& la.M,_-t•,., fr• ru..u Ut Dullftl vltb Alc"''""lc Pareata 
ProfessionalVISion· 
.., lulcl..l CTlda 
531 N. Michigan St.•

tt2 leaotnl.llftl JutdU• l'otntlah ln Otheu 
ASSOCIATES
•., •tplna s-o. b a SulcldaJ Crhh 
1635 N..Ironwood • 277-1161 L_ Phone 133-4957 IQi
• .................................................rrl!i# 






The Observer Monday, December 10, 1984 -page 6 
Sale of meat banned, air and water declared safe in Bhopal 

Assoclated Press 
BHOPAL, India · Authorities banned the sale of meat in Bhopal yesterday but declared the city's air and water "safe" after last week's poison gas disaster that killed nearly 2,000 residents. 
Doctors said they were receiving new cases · people experiencing delayed effects from last week's poison gas leak from a pesticide plant · and that viral pneumonia was posing a new danger to those with lungs damaged by the gas. 
An estimated 200,000 citizens were stricken by the gas. 
The methyl isocyanate gas that escaped from the Union Carbide plant on Dec. 2 ruined crops around Bhopal and could keep agricultural land barren for years, Calcutta's Amrlta Bazar Patrlka newspaper yesterday quoted scientists as saying. The newspaper estimated crop loss at about S5.2 million. 
Moti Singh, Bhopal's city adminis­trator, said slaughter houses were ordered closed after official reports said attempts were being made to sell meat oflivestock stricken by the gas. 
Arjun Singh, the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh state, appealed to the public not to panic over rumors of contamination from the leak. Some residents, frightened by reports of air and water pollution, tainted vegetables and long-term ef­fects of the gas, are leaving this central Indian city. 
Demonstrators marched in 
Bhopal to protest what they said was 
"criminal negligence" by Union 
Carbide and the state government. 
They carried black flags, a coffin and 
placards demanding prosecution of 
the guilty for "genocide." 
Union Carbide announced in New 
Delhi it will contribute nearly Sl 
million to relief operations. A com­
pany statement said the corporation 
Stor~ 
continued from page 1 
Applications for employees of the store will go out this week, accor­ding to Bertino, and the store should be operational by the first day back from break. 
The first few weeks will be a trial period, he said. "We'll find out how well it will do only after it is open for awhile. When people know about it, then it will gain popularity." 
One of the first things purchased after the store becomes established will be retail shelving. "We're not setting up anything permanent yet," he said. "But we're sure we will be able to expand in a short amount of time." 
~ 
~[if~j=~•w ~ 
1.-DIIII.tiiSitllrfJ ~ 
$29.00 § 
IUS and LIFT TICICETS B.antals $8. 00 ...xtra COJIVEIIIENT DEPARTURE POINTS AND DATES 
DECDUIER 16, 1984 JAIIUARY 20, 1985 FEBRUARY 10, 1985 FEIIRUARY 24, 1985 
llffi(($1ftliittJ 
7:15am OSCEOLA 7:45am 1ST SOURCE CENTER 
8: OOaa UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
information 
·;;~';;= I§
lL ~-~~ 
:Z11/23&.28M 
CoOOeO'"....oQCO~ 
also planned to set up an orphanage in Bhopal, capital of Madhya Pradesh, India's largest state. News reports have said 500 children were orphaned by the leak. 
William M. Anderson, the Ameri­can chairman ofUnion Carbide, who was briefly arrested in Bhopal on Friday and later reportedly asked to leave India, departed yesterday. 
Anderson, arrested on charges of negligence, homicide and criminal .conspiracy, was ordered released 
• unconditionally by the state govern· 
ment because of concern that the case might undermine U.S.·Indian relations, press reports said yester­day. 
Union Carbide owns 50.9 percent of the Indian facility. The remainder of the company ownership is held in India. 
India's Central Bureau of Investi­gation began a probe into the leak yesterday as seven top Indian Union Carbide executives remained under police detention on charges of causing deaths through negligence. Among them was Keshub Mahindra, chairman of the Indian subsidiary and one of India's wealthiest in­dustrialists. 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available ... Winter semester ... convenient ... spacious ... Laundry facilities .. ~plentiful parking ... superior maintenence .... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: 
(219) 234-6647 
GIVE SOMEONE A TAN FOR CHRISTMAS 
Ask about our X-Mas specia18. 
TAN.....HAWAIIAN 
sun tanning solon 277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
Individual dressing rooms and booths (or compl~te privacy 

VISA & MASTERCARD 
Get Involved! We 
and fill out an application. 
need  
you!  
Work for 2 hours a  
week laying out a daily  
student newspaper. Chance for  
promotion high. Stop in at The Observer offices  Spots open for next semester  

The=Observer_ 
3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center 
The state government said it would file a compensation suit against Union Carbide in the United States shortly. The amount of com­pensation to be sought would be decided in consultation with the central government, Arjun Singh said. 
A $I 5 billion class action suit has been filed in the United States by San Francisco attorney Melvin Belli, who arrived in New Delhi yesterday, his staff in San Francisco said. He was due to go to· Bhopal later to inter­view victims. 
The suit, filed Friday on behalf of 
two Bhopal survivors in Charleston 
district court in West Virginia, says 
Union Carbide was negligent in de­
signing the methyl isocyanate pro­
duction unit at Bhopal and failed to 
warn Indian citizens about the 
chemical dangers. 

"The number of deaths are going 
down and patients are also respond­
ing better to treatment," Bhopal's 
Hamidia Hospital Superintendent 
R.K. Bhandari said. But he expressed concern over the new threat from viral pneumonia. 
Doctors said undernourished slumdwellers who suffered lung damage from gas inhalation were 
OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT 

WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! 
JAPAN · EUROPE · AFRICA · AUSTRALIA · THE SOUTH 
PACIFIC· SOUTH AMERICA· THE FAR EAST. . EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! 
FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS! 
More than 300,000 Americans -not including members of the armed services -are now living overseas. These people are engaged in nearly everypossible activi­ty... construction, engineer­ing, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accoun­ting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc.-etc. And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000 per month ... or more! 
To allow you the op­portunity to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and compil· ed a new and exciting direc­tory on overseas employ-. ment. Here is just a sample of what our International Employment Directory covers. 
(1). Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship com­panies, both on the east and~ west coast. You will be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, restaurant help, cooks, bartenders, just to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Ap­plication Forms that you may send directly to the companies you would like to work for. 
(2). Firms and organiza· tions -employing all types of personnel in Australia, 
ORDER FORM International Employment Directory 131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, WA 98531 

Please send me a copy of your International Employment Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis I'm enclosing $20.00 cash .... check .... or money order .... for your Dlreetory. 
NAME____________~~~----------------­
please print 
ADDRESS_____________ 

APT~---------------­
CITY_______________STATE________________ZIP International Employment Directory 1984 
Japan, Africa, The ·South Pacific, The Far East, South America ... nearly every part of the free world! 
(3). Companies and Government agencies employing personnel in near· ly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college trained professional man or woman. 
(4). Firms and organiza­tions engaged in foreign con­struction projects, manufac­turing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc., etc. 
(5). How and where to ap· ply for overseas Government jobs. 
(6). Information about summer jobs. 
(7). You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest...jam-packed with in­formation about current job opportunities. Special sec­tions features news of overseas construction pro· jects, executive positions and teaching opportunities. 
90 Day Money
Back Guarantee 

Our International Employ­
ment Directory is sent to you 
with this guarantee. If for 
any reason you do not obtain 
overseas employment or you 
are not satisfied with the job 
offers ... simply return our 
Directory within 90 days and 
we'll refund your money pro­
mptly...no questions asked. 
more susceptible to viral pneumonia for which there is no specific treatment. 
New cases of patients who showed no symptoms immediately after the leak but then suffered delayed effects were reported over 
the  weekend  and  doctors  said  
patients  continued  to  pour  into  
hospitals.  

The Indian Express newspaper said that 51 serious cases of poison· ing were admitted to Hamidia Hospital Saturday. It said yesterday that some new victims had eaten fish from Bhopal Lake. Authorities closed the main fish market. 

Authorities denied a Union Carbide statement that a company technical team from the United States was allowed inside the plant Saturday to investigate the disaster. 
"They were not allowed and they are not needed," said the State lnfor· mation Director Sudip Banerjee. "We don't trust their knowledge anymore. We are afraid they might destroy evidence." 
View~_O_l_·_n_t_________ o_ec-em_b-er-10~,1.;..98_4..:.-p~ag~e
M_o_nd..;.ay.;...' 7 
,
, 

Christmas gifts for all ,1 1 
~ 

of Notre Dame family 
Is there a reason for the · way humans behave 
Throughout this semester I have written a number ofcolumns ti~led "reasoned culture." lbose columns were concerned with varied themes such as laughter, beauty, dentists and so forth · and could have Included many more themes. "Ibe purpose ofall this was not to pro­vide entertainment, nor merely to arouse in­terest In the topics, but hopefully to reveal to people that culture is something we live 
Jurgen Brauer 
reasoned culture 
rather than something we reflect upon. And beyond that, of course; was the hope that someone might feel challenged to do some of their own thinking on culture. 
With every reflection on cultural traits ­every time someone ask.~ us why we do what we do -one realizes the absurdity of culture. Why do men wear pants and women wear dresses? "Ibere is no reason I can think ofpre­venting this from being the other way around­women wearing pants (as they already do here In the United States) and men wearing dresses. Why do we or don't we shake hands when greeting each other? Why do women paint their faces and men do not? "Ibere is no particular reason for these cultural conven­tions. lbe point ofthe columns, then, also was to ask whether at some point there is a reason for the way we behave. 
Indeed, every philosophical, religious and ideological system of thought, in laying down some doctrine of correct beliefs, tries to pro­vide some reason for the described behavior. In tht· case of religious systems, correct be­havio~ is often linked to pleasing some deity. It is to fulfill an objective. In the case of philosophical systems, the objective might be to establish and maintain an ideal state (as in Plato's Republic), and in the case of an ideol­ogy one might want to refer as an example to the "free-enterprise system" which ap­parently demands competitive rather than cooperative behavior. However, all of these are based on some sort of normative value system, and the question then becomes one of choosing between a· variety of available normative systems and according to what set of criteria? 
Alternatively, one could try to construct "reasonable" arguments which are not based on normative values. I guess, this is exactly what, for example, Albert Camus attempted to do in his "The Myth of Sisyphus". Why not commit suicide?, he asks himself. And then he goes on to argue why life is worth living with­out having to seek recourse to some religious or other value system. 
I am wondering whether it is possible to construct non-normative arguments relating to culture, to the way we behave, and to ask whether the abolition of some behavior pat­terns and the adoption of others would per­haps be likely to improve the quality oflife, for all of mankind. But, then, the quality of life or the degree of happiness, if you will, is itself defined through culture.-Perhaps one of the· many knowledgeable readers out there might like to think about that and contribute a View­point column to Tbe Obseroer this coming 
year. 
jurgen Brauer is a graduate economics student at Notre Dame and a regular View­point columnist. 
Ifyou have an opinion, why not share it? 
If you would like to respond to something you've read In The Observer, wby not write a letter to tbe editor. Letters sbould be well­written, typed, no more tban :l'JO words In lengtb and must bear the signature of tbe au­tbor. Letters wblcb are notsigned by the author will not bepubUsbed. 
/.etters to the editor can be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Bo:x Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office In LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office In Haggar College Center. 
The Observer reserves the rlgbt to edit all material submttted to the Viewpoint depart­mentfor pub/tcatlon. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editonals represent the opil"]iOn of a maJOrity of the Ed•tonal Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views ol their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of vary1ng opimons on campus, through letters. IS encouraged. 
The season which we are presently in brings its own share ofhardships and troubles. Not only must one decide what to ask Santa Claus for but one must also make it a point to get his suggestions for the loved ones around us. To be quite honest, I have often fallen into the let's-get-Uncle-Bob-another-tie syndrome. It is simple, it does riot take too much time, and Uncle Bob fakes the smile better each 
Dave Kroeger 
Wednesday's child 
year. Yet, this year I have decided to get the relatives a little piece of Notre Dame that few others have. During the innumerable hours which I have for leisure, I have compounded quite an array ofgifts which are sure to please everyone: 
The Gerry Faust Doll 
Wake the echoes or echo the wakes with this miniature likeness of the Fighting Irish coach. This doll is great for children and "All I Want for Christmas Is a Studded Leather Dog Collar." (Paradise Lost, S8.9S.) 
Tbe Priests ofNotre Dame Calendar 
This beautifully bound, Cordoban leather calendar is a treat for anyone. Spend the year with twelve of your favorite priests and find out how the other halfreally llves. See Brother Mike at the Badin SYR and find out how Father Cecil spends his spare time. To avoid any con­fusion, this calendar is exploitive and chauvanistic, but it is still a must. (Concerned Representatives of Farley Hall, S22.95.) 
The South Dining Hall Cookbook 
How many times have you contemplated the possibility of your mother cooking meals just like the dining halls do? Well now she can. Your favorite dishes are all here along with tips for arranging a salad bar. True, the recipes do leave a few leftovers, but does not every­one get cravings for Hungarian Noodle Bake around midnight? (South Dining Hall, S I SO.) 
For a Good Horse, Call XXXX 
The sequel to the recently released book of Obseroer classifieds, this marvelous little volume contains some ofthe better witticisms from the restrooms in and around the Notre 

adults alike. The fabric is 100 percent • Dame community. Here one can find advice 

beatable, and another good feature is that it never seems to lose its shape, despite wash after wash. Buy yours now and help to send the football team to the Aloha Bowl. (Notre Dame Athletic Department, S400,000.) 
TbeHesburgh Tree 
This charming Christmas tree will become a family heirloom in no time. Constructed out of the old airplane ticket stubs from Father Hesburgh's travels, it is guaranteed to impress the neighbors. Now you can know where our leader was and what time he got there for vir­tually every day of the year. The University archives have only released a portion of the total ticket stubs so this should be considered a fairly limited offer. (Administration Build­ing, S2.95.) 
Motley Crue Christmas Album 
This two-record set, available only at finer university bookstores should keep the grandparents rocking for hours. Yes, here they are: all the Christmas favorites from the ages and more, and all done in the inimitable style that has come to characterize this head banger • band. If heavy metal is near and dear to the heart ofsomeone on your list, then thh; album is for them. Look for the new single entitled 
6RE.: 

\ ~(. 0 'b ~uver '-gy / 
that simply does not come into the public eye, along with insights into the more active stu­dents on campus. This work is a must for the roommate who constantly has a problem fin­ding a date. (Hammes Bookstore, SS.) 
Season tickets to theACCshows 
This gift is perfect for anyone. It admits the bearer into all of the shows which the ACC holds in the upcoming season. Coming In 1985: the Mondale Rocks America Concert Tour, the John DeLorean Used Car Show, and the Bolshoi Ballet's version of "Oh, Calcutta." Hurry and order your ticket soon, and be sure to include your seat color choice for the up­coming Student Union presentation of "Tattletales." (ACC Ticket Office, S300.) 
Why on earth should one buy the tradi­tiona! gifts when these are so much better? Be original! Be creative! Give something from around you besides sweatpants with a Notre Dame insignia (God forbid, but it could be un­licensed.) Give a little ofyourself. After all, we have so much, don't we? 
David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArts & Letters Honors Program and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Ed1tor-in-Chief . . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . .. Dave Taiclet Managmg Ed1tor . . ... Mark Worscheh Controfler . . Martpat Horne News Ed1tor .... . . Sarah Hamilton Adverttsing Manager. . AnneCulltgan News Ed1tor .. . .. Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . ... Jeff O'Neill Samt Mary's Ed1tor . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. . . Kevin Williams Sports Ed1tor. . .. Mtchael Sull1van Productton Manager. . . Chns Bowler Viewpomt Editor . Dave Grote Project Manager .. Amy Stephan Features Editor .. . . Mary Healy • Photo Ed1tor. .. _... Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
r 
r Monday, December 10, 1984-page 8 
Accent 
,r r • • 
r 
r Another success IS born In England
r 
band from England which has sing abouthomosexuality and the This unusual focus does not detract message, but you don't have to tains only acoustic guitars with gained attention for its somewhat ramifications stemming from it. from the band, nor from its image; subscribe to it to like the music. Morrissey's singing. It is a beautiful suggestive lyrics, much like the This hasn't kept people from liking Morrissey is almost a cult hero in Morrissey's voice suits the ma­tune that deals with a sad subject­Velvet Underground did in the late the group, however. They have had his home country. In fact, terial well, and it enhances the that ofa desire not to return to a 60's. Unlike the Velvets, however, numerous hits in England, most homosexuality, though not an en­music as a whole. His light singing place which holds painful the Smiths tend to avoid such deca­notably "This Charming Man" and tirely new angle, gives the songs a in "This Charming Man," an irresis­memories. In this next passage, dent subjects as drugs and the wild "Hand in Glove," and they're now refreshing originality. This in­table song, is pure magic. In Morrissey says to no one in particu­side. Instead, they concentrate on enjoying continued success. ventiveness, combined with the "William, ItWas Really Nothing," lar about how he felt at the old men, as seen from a man's point of Leading this talented quartet is Smiths' stripped-down style of Morrissey's relatively high-pitched, house: 
playing, helps make them one of the almost nasal voice serves as a beau­best bands to emerge from England tiful medium for his eloquence. You never knew in this decade. Fast, strumming acoustic guitar and How much I really likedyou 
Hatful ofHollow is quite en­a distinct, crisp electric guitar BecauseI never even told you joyable to listen to, not only be­weave the background over which Oh, andI meant to
~ 
cause it displays the Smiths' obvious Morrissey syncs his rhythm per­Areyou still there?
r 
enthusiasm for pop music, but also fectly with the beat. He sings: Or haveyou movedaway?
r 
because they link this pop theme How can you stay with a fat girl It's not clear whether he is address­
r 
through a multitude ofstyles and who'll say: ing a male or female, but it was 
r 
r 
tempos. In one song, "How Soon is "Wouldyou like to marry me obviously someone he cared about. r Now?", a pulsating keyboard creates And ifyou like, you can"buy the And the loss ofthis person made r a Simple-minds like "doomsday" . ring" these memories even more painful.r sound, on top·ofwhich guitarist She doesn't care about anything "Please Please Please," the last songr Johnny Marr emits intermittent This is a glorious moment in the on the album, seems to want to 
r 
f 
wailings. Immediately following song, though it is not very spectacu­compensate for the misery and this is "Handsome Devil," a fast­lar, lyrically. Still, it's one of those sorrow apparent throughout the paced driving song about one man's moments you don't forget. album. Again, this song features 
desire for another. Here, Morrissey Morrissey's vocals are only acoustic guitar, and it is simple crosses the border between am­remarkable, too, on "Heaven Knows in message. He asks ifhe can get
~ 
biguity and blatancy in his lyrics. At I'm Miserable Now." The song, a what he wants, then he adds, "Lord 
~ one point, he sings: soul-influenced ballad, is a wonder­knows, it would be the first time." I know what hands arefor ful beginning for the second side. In Hatful ofHollow is a worthwhile AndI'd like to help myself it, he expresses frustration at living, investment, ifnothing else. The 
You ask me the time and he resents all the uncaring Smiths are a band to watch in the F HOllOW ButI sense something more people in the world. He sings: future. They have displaye1I great
"HATFUl 0 
AndI would like to giveyou In my life versatility, and I expect even better What/ tbinkyou'reasktngjor Why do I give valuable time works are to come. But why wait? I You handsome devil To people who don't care if/ suggest you begin to enjoy their These words exemplify Morrissey's Live ordie music now. 

Some habits to be kicked 
eating habits are an important con­
by Stephanie Siegel 
cern in every Notre Dame student's
features staff writer 
W
life. Most students agree that al­though they make dining hall food hat aspect ofcampus life is gain. the culprit in weight gain sagas, in often thought about After a recent survey of the num­actuality, in-between-meal snacks (especially during boring lectures), ber of Domino's boxes m tne trash are a large part of the problem. sometimes anticipated, and never bin, the crowd ofpeople fighting meets expectations? No, this article for the ice cream scoop in the On the whole, girls seem to keep is not about your SYR date, al­dining hall, and the avid dieters much better track of their food though he or she may satisfy all of eating salad for dinner (who, by the intake than guys. They set unyield­the requirements. This article is way, happen to know the exact ing guidelines for themselves-­about dining hall food, nutrition, minute that dorm food sales open), anything consumed in the library junk food and proportional weight it becomes apparent that good does not constitutefood, foods 
Paul Kramer !The Observer 
Mmmm ... an unidentified entree that could be delicious, should be nutritious, and is definitely full ofcalories. 
containing sugar must be consumed student overloads on starch and in mass quantities before a test, and carbohydrates adding unwanted devouring a box ofchocolate chip pounds. cookies will not count ifonly a The freshman fifteen is also a big salad is eaten for dinner. This list issue. Whether due to the general could go on forever. I really admire homesickness, SYR/formal these nutrition conscious people -anxieties, or the pressure of trying the speed at which they sprint to to survive that double Emil, it is a the library with the latest care well known fact that nearly all package is amazing. freshmen gain weight. In interview­
Ofcourse, we can not ignore the ing several people concerning this general eating habits of the male issue, I discovered that the gain is population on campus. Judging attributed to the study-all-night-eat­from their full plates, guys tend to all-night phenomenon that plagues eat several (six or seven) full meals those whose greatest art is procras­a day, whereas girls are more likely tination. to snack. Another noticeable aspect The most important little-known, ofconsumption in the dining hall is yet well-supported theory I came the lack ofvegetables and/or salads across in questioning students is on guys' trays. that weight gain gets proportionally 
Between the "Lettuce serve you" smaller each year. So if you send the people and the plethora of junk scale twenty-five pounds higher at food machines, this campus is not at the end offreshman year, don't all conducive to nutrition con­despair, by senior year (though you 
Johannes Hacker /The Obsever sciousness. When, as oftentimes is may be twice your original weight), the case, the only edible food of­you should be able to get away with
(From left to right) Matt Holloway, Steve Tobin, Jim Wehner, Dennis Corrigan, and Jim Weyer apparently 
fered in the dining hall is bread, gaining only ten more pounds

enjoy dinner In the South Dining Hall. 
potatoes, or deserts, your average before graduation. 

r 
( 
r Tim Adams 
r 
features staffwriter 
~ 
Records 

T
he Smiths are a popular new view. In other words, the Smiths 
Morrissey, a man with some unus­ gay message. Either he doesn't care  The falsetto way in which he sings  
ual convictions, but one who has  what others think, which I think is  "live or die" is very nicely done; it  
obviously thought out his position  the case, or he is too ingenious to  contains a lot offeeling. As this song  
well. He write~ the lyrics to all the  notice. In either case, he sings these  demonsrates, the Smiths can play  
group's songs, and they can be  lyrics with no obvious cynicism or  sensitively yet appealingly.  
strange and disturbing indeed.  lasciviousness. Ifyou weren't listen­ This sensitivity is also evident in  
The Smiths' songs are full of  ing closely, you'd probably never  "Back to the Old House" and  
homosexual innuendo, and  notice them. Therein lies the  "Please Please Please Let Me Get  
sometimes they are quite blatant.  beauty ofthe Smiths' music; it has a  What !_Want." "Old House" con­ 




.. _ 
Monday, December 10, 1984 -page 9 . 



Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Ski Club witt be meeting for members to register for tryouts today at 6 p.m. in the Lafortune little Theatre. All members must attend and bring money for sweatshirts and turtlenecks. For more information, call Kate at 277-4706. -The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be dearly written.-The Obseroer 
Box Score 
the former teammates from Cathe­dral High School in Indianapolis did all the Irish scoring in the first 16 minutes of the second half. 
DePaul's biggest lead came with the score 86-67, and the Irish used the final three minutes "to learn what we could," according to Phelps. Although the final outcome was never in doubt, the Irish were able to cut the deficit through effi· cient use of timeouts and hustling play as the game wore down. 
Even after the tough loss, Phelps was not terribly disappointed. 
"I'm happy with the week we had and I'm happy about our team," he said. "Ifsomeone had told me before the week began that we would bea Indiana or DePaul, I would have been very happy. 

"Today we got to see what we could do and what we couldn't do against the No. 2 team in the country. I know we're going to get better as the year goes by, and I think we're going to be a very good bas­ketball team come March." 
Now the team turns its attention to academics and the road trip over Christmas break. And if anyone wants to check on the progress of the Irish toward their goal, the Blue Demons will be coming to town on Jan. 20. Mayhe Phelps and the team will be able to produce the "Notre Dame moment" that escaped them Saturday. 
Box Score 

Notre Dame183)  DePaul(95)  
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Barlow  37 10-17  1·2  6  3  21  Corbin  35  9-16  2-2  8  1  20  
Dolan  18  1-1  0-1  2  2  2  Holmes  25  5-9  1-2  7  3  11  
Royal  17  0-0  0-0  1  4  0  Embry  13  1-2  2-2  1  5  4  
Hicks  33 10-15  5-7  6  3  25  Jackson  28  3-5  3-4  2  3  9  
Rivers  36  6-14  4-4  2  5  16  Patterson  36  5-9  4-5  1  1  14  
Kempton  25  0-2  1-2  3  2  1  Comegys  26  B-13  4-5  4  1  20  
Price  9  2-7  0-0  2  2  4  Lampley  14  3-3  0-0  0  2  6  
Voce  6  1-1  0-0  3  1  2  Laux  11  0-0  2-2  1  1  2  
Beeuwsaert  4  3-4  0-0  3  2  6  Pettus  4  o-o  1-4  1  1  1  
Peters  3  2-4  0-0  1  0  4  West  5  1-1  4-4  3  0  6  
Duff  9  0-1  0-0  0  4  0  Golden  2  o-o  0-0  0  0  0  
Bowen  3  1-2  0-0  0  1  2  Woods  1  o-o  2-2  0  0  2  
200 36-68 11-16  29  29  83  200 35-58 25-32  28  18  95  
FG  Pet.  • .529.  FT  Pet.  -.688.  Team  FG  Pet.  -.603.  FT  Pet.  -.781.  Team  
abounds  -2. Turnovers • 12. Assists  ·  21  rebounds  -5. Turnovers'-12. Assists  -22  
(Rivers 8). Technicals-none.  (Patterson 9). Technicals-none.  

Halftime-DePaul 44, Notre Dame 33. Olfi· cials-John Dabrow, Woody Mayfield, Mike Kouri (all Biq Eiqht). A-17,499. 


Notre Dame (88) 
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Dolan  10  1-2  2-2  4  2  4 Geary  
Barlow  29  4-12  5-6  7  1  13  Rias  
Royal  16  1-4  0·0  1  1  2  Stueve  
Rivers  22  3-13  0·0  2  1  6  Dougherty  
Hicks  22  6-11  1-2  5  2  13  Hughes  
Beeuwsaert  15  6-8  2·2  3  1  14  Rose  
Duff  20  0·2  0-1  1  3  0  Battle  
Peters  10  3-9  1-2  2  1  7  Bell  
Bowen  11  1·2  0·0  4  1  2  Rekeweg  
Price  17  4-8  o-o  4  2  B Bayne  
Kempton  14  Q-3  5-6  5  3  5  
Voce  14  5-6  4-4  13  0  14  FG  Pet.  

Valparalao (57) 
M FG·A FT:A  R  
18  3-7  0-0  2  
31  2·6  1-2  3  
19  -1-5  0-1  7  
29  4-11  1-2  4  
25  1·9  0·0  2  
17  3-4  3·5  0  
15  2·11  0-0  5  
29  7-15  1-2  B  
12  1-3  3-4  2  
5  0-2  0-0  0  

p 5 6 1 5 4 2 2 9 2 2 2 9 1 4 3 15 1 5 0 0 F 

200 24-73 ~16 33 21 57 .329. FT Pet. -.563. Team 
200 34-80 20-25 51 18 88 rebounds -7. Turnovers • 20. Assists • 4 FG Pet. -.425. FT Pet. -.BOO. Team (Hughes 2). Technicals-None. 
rebounds · 9. Turnovers • 13. Assists -11 
(Hicks 3). Technicals ·None. 
Halftime · Notre Dame 36, Valparaiso 20. Officials-Phil Robinson, Dan Chrisman, . A­4,865. 
DePaul 
continuedfrom page 16 

Phelps. "We just didn't do a good job 
of it. We got in a hole, and we never 
got out of it. I have no excuses. 
They're a very good team and they 
pounded us." 

In fact, the press actually hurt the Irish against the experienced Demons. Attacking the press with ease, DePaul often ended up with short jumpers by beating Notre Dame down the court. 
"We wanted to go through Notre Dame's press to prevent any runs," said DePaul coach Joey Meyer. "We didn't want them to get on a run like they have against everybody else. And we also wanted to attack the press and score. You can work all day for a 10-foot jump shot, so why not take it when you can get it against the press?" 
The Irish made a few runs at the DePaul lead in the second half, but could never get closer than seven points. The Demon defense forced the Irish to shoot outside, and Notre Dame was never able to gain the ad­vantage inside neceSsary to overcome the deficit. 
"There were spurts where we had the chance to come back," said Phelps. "But we always did the wrong thing at the wrong time. They packed it in pretty well on defense. We didn't hit the outside shots to open up the inside game." 
Scott Hicks and Ken Barlow both 
shot well enough from the outside 
to keep the Irish in the game, but did 
not receive much offensive help 
from the rest of the Irish. In fact, ex­
cept for a Tim Kempton free throw, 
Monday, December 10, 1984 -page 10 
The Obser1•er Notrt· Dame office. located on the third floor of Lal'ortune ~tudent Center, accepts cla!.sified advertising from') a.m. until 4 p.m .. Monday through Friday. The Obstm•er Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collegto Center. a~-cepts elassifieds from 12::\0 p.m. until:\ p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 5 p.m. All classifi~:ds must he prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda 

NOTICES. 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117 
TYPING Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 
NEED TYPING: CALl DOlORES 277-«145 PICKUP AND D£UVERY 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $111,551 • $50,553/y.r. Now Hiring. Your Are.. Cell805-1187-41000, Ext. R-1834. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. CALL: 287·5182. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS '85 AP­PLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CEN· TEA FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. 
MARCH FOR LIFE' ND/SMC Right to Life wants you to help the unborn by par­ticipating in the MARCH FOR LIFE in Washinglon D.C. on Jan. 22. Info soon In basement of LaFortune. Thank you I 
I. LOST/FOUND I 
LOST -room & car keys .on a BU0­WEISER key chain lost between South Dining Hall & Dillon if found please call 1778-Thanks! 
STOLEN: MY BICYCLE From the back of Cavanaugh, Wed. 28th rx Thurw. 29th: is an old-type cruiser. red body. white rims, black seat. white hand grips: no landers; c·mon. dude. give me a break, I live o.c. and it's my only transportation: Any into, CALL JOE No questions asked 277-3877 
HORSE DIED-NEED MY MITTENS BACK.If anybody picked up my blue leal· her mittens at the last horne football game-PIInn. State. Please return them to Kavin-3828 NOWI 
LOST: New, black, compactumbrella with wood handle. Lost in Washington Hall or Library, 2nd floor. If you have ~. please cal George, 3499/3200. 
LOST INTERMEDIATE ACCT. TEXT (Chasteen) from South Dining Hall on Dec. 5. Initials "MP" on Book. Celt 232· 0848 no questions asked. 
Lost : Basketball tickets at IU game. In section 5. mey have been given to person in row 6. Please call Jeck ]239-7709 or 277-6479. Thanx. 
FOUND: PAIR • OF WOMEN'S EYEGLASSES IN RED VELVET CASE OUTSIDE OF WALSH. CALL283·1667. 
LOST -Blue Wocl. Blezer in South Dining Hall Tues. evening. If found please call 3615/323 Lewis-Sentimental Value in· valved. 
.................................. 
LOST: Leather WILSON ""JET"" Besket· ball in the ACC on Friday, November 30, 1964. in the afternoon, in or around Gym 
2. Definete ldentifica· tion can ba mede. If found, PLEASE CALL 283-4335. 0 
LOST·· Blue NO backpacl<lbookbag at south dining hall containing two EE textbooks. one light blue NO notebook and a yellow folder and a pair of glasses. Name,address and phone number in booka and neme on other items. PLEASE return booka, notebook, folder and glasses!! NEED BOOKS & NOTES FOR FINALS!II NOT interested in the return of the bool<bag. Cell Jodi at XX2904. PLEASE HELP ME FIND THEM!!!!! 
FOR RENT 
WILL SHARE MY LUXURY TOWNHOUSE WITH TWO RESPON· SIBLE/TRUSTWORTHYI FRIENDLY MALE STUDENTS FOR NEXT TERM. 7 MIN. WALK TO MAIN CAMPUS. CALL LEN 272-8582 AFTER 5 P.M. FOR IN­TERVIEW. 
WANTED 
RIDE NEEDED: Need ride to Upstate New York (Syracuse or Albany area) can leave Wednesday December 19 at noon. Call Brendan at 2275. 
··············································· 
Need ride to New Orleans for Christmas Break. Can leave anytime after Decem· bar 20. Call Paul COLLECT at (312)388· 6458. 
WANTED :Garage space for rent close to campus. Call JA. 2012 
Riders needed to Minneapolis on Mon. Dec. 17. Celt Joen at 1580. 
Need to Sell my place on the NO ski team's trip to Colorado Jan. 4 ·11. Will negotiate price. Nora 4271 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: '72 Skylark Body: Poor Engine: Good $500 or beet ollw Jill! 2118-2042 
for sale! 76'VW RABBIT great conditions for info call 1459 
Blue Jean jacket-bought last break·· never worn--need xmas $-·best offer Bill 1597 
...................... ···························· For Sale: 12X24 Michael Jackson portrait painting • ideal X-mas present for some­one who's a M.J. fan · call Sua 4258(SMC) 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOA, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Paint a perfect picture. Bring to life a vision in one·s mind. The beautiful ones always smash the picture. 
Always. Every time. 

............................. HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES: IT ONLY MAKES YOU A BETTER PERSON. For information call Mary Ann Roamer: 239­7949. 
WHAT HAVE MORE THAN 110 ALUMS 
DONE THEIR FIRST YEAR AFTER 
GRADUATION? Holy Cross Associates. 
CHECK IT OUT!! Call239-5521 for mora 
info. 
................................. 
YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND 
ARE WORTH THE WORLD 
God, Please give me soma patience. 
....................... 
Santa can't deliver my presents to Notre 
Dame so I NEED A RIDE TO NEW JER­
SEY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. If you 
Clln give me • ride Cllll Sllnih ..1333. 
I've got a data with Santa for Christmas and I don't want to stand him up, so help me and the jolly old ell gat together in St. Louis. If you can give me a ride there for Christmas break call Maureen at 1333. 
MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS: For sale in room 204 WalSh or319 Farley. $6 each or 2for$10. 
.,............................................................. 
Riders Needed to So. Florida Dec. 19th. Call Jenny 284-4366. 
MTV World Premiere Video Release 
Featuring 

K2-LIVE GIG FROM DALLAS 
starring Notre Dame student 
Chris Prebys 
Coming to you soon.. Look to your hall message board tor fur­ther details 
............................. Don't let that spacial guy forget you over the holidays. Give him a Glamour Portrait or sat of Glamour Miniatures. Photogra· phy by Joe Ringer. 287-ll613. 
Interested in getting involved with The Observer, as well as learning to edit? The Accent department is currently ac· cepting applications for F...u,. Copy Editor, a paid position. If interested, con­tact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313. 
NINER FEVER. ..NINER FEVER.. NINER FEVER... NINER FEVER The Super Bowl is coming to Stanford and the NINERS will be there .... What happened to JOe Theis· menn and the 'Skins?... 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 
............................. ....................... 
WANTED: RIDE TO O'HARE Of\j DEC. 
18. I NEED TO BE AT THE AIRPORT BY 2:30PM. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 1118. 
Riders needed to Minneapolis on Mon. Dec. 17. Call Joan at 1580. 
Thank You, St. Jude. 
SPRINGSTEEN FANS:IIorn in the USA LIVE tape(90min).lncludes Dancing in the Dark,Pink Cedillac,Born to Run,and 13 others.GOOd !lOUnd Only $8.Call2036 
JUNIORS Anyone interested in working on a slide show for JUNIOR PARENTS" WEEKEND, please call Kathleen 1335. 
....... ········ OBERLIES: PLUG IN YOUR PHONE! YOU NEVER KNOW WHEN SMC, THE UNTAPPED RESOURCE, WILL BE TRYING TO CALL. 
10 things you Clln do with HORSE DIED I NEED RIDE TO BOSTON I (a book of OBSERVER ctassifi-) 1. Read it to sea if you'rea published author. 2. Read it just to laugh. 3. Buy It as a keepsake of your glorious years here. 4. Give it to your 
Kris Kringle. 5-10. Bring 6 copies home and sell them at a profit. 
HEY N.Y. METRO CLUB-BUS SIGN· UPS MON. DEC. 10 AT 7PM (2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE). BUS LEAVES WED 12·19AT8PM. $80P.A. $85 W.P. 
Desperately need ride to TEXAS for Christmas! Can leave the 18th. Shannon 284-4411 
B.A.M.H. (Born again men haters club) will sponsor a self·help counSeling group, Monday night tiffed "How bed was your weekend." No ralresllments S81Ved. 
Jan, AI, Phyllis and the rest: We know about them because they are ubiquitous. And anyway, Cari's watch is broken. At least we don't suck on Christmas lights ... As Jay and Mrs. Bush would say, "It STO rhymes with witch." From: Buck, Robert. Carl (sans watch) and Wayne. 
When the rockets go up. who cares where they coma down. that's not my department. said Wilkins VonBraun. 
CAROLE CRAWFORD-are you still BUZZED ? MERRY CHRISTMAS ! B.P . K.K. 
MARK'S a Sweak! and he's Gay but I LOVE him anyway! 
ad Shawn Johnson Happy B·Day Bootiful Luv J.J 
Attractive, blond haired, blue eyed, per­son seeks ride to Peoria, II. area Dec. 18 or 19. Call me at 2066. 
Edible describes your lips. 
FR. GUIDO SARDUCCI TWO SHOWS 7:00PM AND 9:00PM SHOWS $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 AT THE DOOR. TICKETS ON SALE STARTING MONDAY. BUY YOUR TIX NOW FOR THE JANUARY 19TH SHOW! 
FR. GUIDO SARDUCCI TWO SHOWS ON THE 19TH OF JANUARY SHOWS AT 7:00PM AND 9:00PM TIX ON SALE MONDAY DEC 10 $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 AT THE DOOR 
Dear Tom, I ask myself why I have bean blessed with someone so understanding and caring. Perhaps it's because I can truly appreciate you Qr maybe God knew I needed you so much. Love you, Sue 
EUNICE TORNETTA Thin walls are a pain, but Christmas is soon. What we need is 96 "speciality" dinners with 14 dif· terant people. I was so sura it was you, but I guess it's me. Next semester, all beware, we'll get what we want. Love You! P.S.I"m ready to write the ransom notes from Oregon! 
Happy birthday Staph, you're finally 21. King's Cellar better stock its shelves! Love, Rick. P.S. You're also a fossil now. 
Katie Dolan, Got to Love that Ghoslbust· ing!!?? 
M.C.M., Theresa's roommate, Walsh soph. advisory council rap, and the princess of Oak Brook, IL (these all describe one person, and YOU KNOW WHO YOU ARE!) Now then, I saved you the amberassment of using your nama. But the point is, SMUT doesn't oorna out for another month or so, and you said a quote worthy of printing. "Gee, I'm so numb I wouldn't be able to feel something if it was thrust between my legs." You're a classic! Love. your J.P. W./S. Y.R. data. 

Happy Birthday MICHELLE NAKFOOR!! You are now a real woman. How does it feel to be 21? Everyone give Michelle a birthday kiss when you sea her. Love your Camarada du chambre, Suzanne 
D.K.--not funny!! In fact downright scary coming from you! But thanks tor the flowers--my SYR data loved them. 
.......................... . ATTRACTIVE WAGES offered tor part­time positions during Spring semester, with potential for lull-time summer or per­manent employment. "Ground floor" op­portunity in a growing microcomputer software company located in downtown South Bend. CurrenUy saak1ng intelligent, technically-oriented students with good communication sk1lls to provide tete­phone oonsullation for users of our software package. Experience as a user or programmer of microcomputers is re­quired. ALSO SEEKING programmers with experience in any Aasambly Lan­guage or inC Language, to develop new software products tor the IBM Personal Computer. Both positions require a mini­mum of 16 hours per weak, preferably Monday through Friday. Send description of qualifications and availability to P.O. Box 929, Notre Dame, IN 4€556. All replies will beacknowledged. 
Dear Boy at Notre Dame, Maybe if you weren't so impressed with yoursell, you wouldn't have to advertise for dates. This notice excludes all those daiming to be second year law students. 
EDWARD HARTMAN GREEN ILOVEYOUILOVEYOUILOVEYOU ILOVEYOUILOVEYOUILOVEYOU! also miss you vary, vary much, DEAR. Most sincerely, a very cold ('cause of all this dicfore snow) FTFC 
·coupon .... coupon .... coupo~ 
Holiday Special 
50s! off 
Send a Christmas personal to a good friend. 
Just bring in this 
coupon and receive 50 
cents off your next 
classified ad order. 
One coupon per order 
(order includes total 
days ad is to run). 
Hurry! Offer expires 
I 
December 12, 1984. coupon .... coupon .... coupon. 

The Observer Monday, December 10, 1984-page 11 
Women's swim team hopes victory over weekend will lend IDOIDentum 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
Tis the season to be: studying ... at kast for most Notre Dame students It Is. 
With finals lurking In the not so distant future. the Notre Dame wo· mc:n's swim team hopes to carry the momentum generated during this weekend's 81·"i9 victory over the Cleveland State Vikings to Val­paraiso University tomorrow after­noon as the Irish close out the fall phase: of their season. 
Although the Irish easily outdis­tanced Valparaiso at the Notre Dame Relays la.~t weekend, the team does not underestimate the potential of the small Valparaiso squad. The Irish expect that tomorrow's meet will provide a learning experience for 
of their younger swimmers and hope to improve their season record to 3·I . 
"We were ahead of them in the relays, but they don't have a.~ much depth a.~ we do," says Notre Dame head coach Dennis Stark. "They do have some outstanding kids." 
"We don't expect too much trou· ble," adds Irish co-captain Venette Cochlolo. "But, we'd hate to under· estimate them." 
"ThE fAR SidE,T~sltiRTs by GARY LARSON AvAilAblE EXclusivEly fRoM 
STYLE #103 (tee)-103 (sweat) 
~........-t·ll*ta (...)and--~(_.) from "The Far Side" by Gary t...ar.on. A~ r. S, M, L, and XL r. c:raam or wNtl ...._ T·ll*ta $9.95, s-.-.... S1U5. Alll*ta -ot 1he ,..._. qualty 11nc1 PI'W*d r. u cotor. 
lnc:lldl S1.00 ,_111m ror ~and handing. Not -w.r.--. 
I=
..:::'. ..:,.,,c.,~-·  ,_  0 a-ll C-..yOnlo< VISA I _,__Nllme --·· ... --· -­-­~ Clly -.. -Zip -~ ~c.dl -· ...........on.,...._ -I!Jiplr:iloii8 -to:,.,-r.-c/o Notre Dame ObHrver u.w-.11.-.g1171 ,_oliN­-3717 Ttlipllono -:212·112-GIIO -----·­- 




- 
'--· ~-~lo~ c:o.po.-..,_..._...........,_,  

Depth was the: cructal element that tipped the scales In Notre Dame's favor at Cleveland State this weekend and the Irish were surprised by the final point spread. Last year's 71-69 loss to the Vikings reflected some equality between the two teams and the Irish were pleased to see how well they mea­sured up to a scholarship team this year. "They didn't gain any new people, and we did," says Stark. "We had some good swims and ·we were glad to see it coming our way." 
Notre Dame took command ofthe meet In the first race as the 200-yard · medley relay team of sophomore Suzanne Devine, Cochiolo and fresh· men Amy Darlington and Barbara Byrne captured first place a full 1 0 seconds before the VIkings. Once the Irish developed an early lead, they maintained a conslstant edge throughout the meet, allowing some of the swimmers to compete In dlf· ferent events. 
"It was exciting because we started strong and It kept building," says Cochlolo. "I think conslstancy helped us a lot." 
Although freshman diver Andrea Bonny lost first place to Cleveland State by only one ninth of a point In the one-meter dive, she Improved 
her performance In the three-meter dive and won the event for the Irish. The meet was decided In the I 00­
yard butterfly race as freshman Hol­
lianne Logan finished with a time of 
l :05.1 1, giving the Irish a 2· I season record. "It was a good win for the girls," says Stark. "Later In the meet, we had the chance to change things around and let the girls swim some different things." 
"The best thing about this year Is the element of surprise," says Coc­hlolo. "Other teams have an Idea of how fast we are, but they're surprised by our depth. Overall, the team Is In a lot better shape now and we're way ahead of where we were at this time last year." 
In January, the team will travel to Puerto Rico for a training trip de­signed to keep the 1ri!lh in shape over the Christmas break. While most team members are looking for­ward to the trip, they will spend at least four hours a day in Intensive practice. "It will be a lot ofwork, but all the practicing will get the team up," says Cochiolo. 
The Irish will be back in action next semester when they play host to a tough squad from Ball State Uni­versity on Jan. 20. The Irish an­ticipate a close meet and expect the January training trip will give them a boost for this important contest. 
Men's team drops first road meet 
By MIKE SZVMA.NSKI Mike Kennedy continued his ex­Sports Writer cellent season by winning the one­meter and three-meter dives. Diver 
The Notre Dame men's swimming Rich Yohon injured his hand when team had difficulty matching the he hit the board during a one-and· depth of a tough Cleveland State one-half reverse in the one-meter Unl\rersity team, losing, 64-49, irlits dive and was forced to withdraw. first road appearance Saturday. Co-captains Brian Casey and Tim While the Irish captured seven first Bohdan had solid performances as places, Cleveland State also swam to they won the 200-yard butterfly in seven first places and successfully I :59.13 and the 1 00-yard freestyle in filled the rest of the scoring posi· 49.04, respectively. Paul Benz tlons. placed first in his specialty, the 200· 
"They were tough in the distance yard backstroke, In 2:04.70. The races, such as the 500-yard and 400-yard free relay, which has only 1 000-yard freestyle events," said one returning member from last Irish coach Dennis Stark. "But the year's team, also placed first as Jim second and third places that they got Dowd, Jeff Grace, Mark Jensen, and made the difference In the scoring." Bohdan swam to a 3:20.33. 
Golfs richest tournament 
Ballesteros wins in South Africa 
Associated Press His best round was Saturday, when 
he shot a6"i. 
SUN CITY, South Africa -Spain's Britain's Nick Faldo, who shot a 72 Severiano Ballesteros shot his worst yesterday and finished at 285, was round of the tournament, a two· the runner-up and collected over-par 74 yesterday, but still won Sl50,000. the Million-Dollar Golf Challenge Lee Trevino of the United States, for the third time, by six strokes, and with a 286 total following a closing earned golfs richest payoff -69, was third and recelvc:d S300,000. $105,000. 
"I made very few mistakes ... I Fourth place and S85,000 went to wish· I could play this way every American Ray Flovd, who finished week," said Ballesteros, who won with a 291 after a final-round 68. He the title last year and In 1981. had shot himself out of contention 
Ballesteros, who finished with a earlier with tw.""~ 74s and a 75 In the 
72-hole total fo 279, led the tourna­first three rounds. and gambling resort is the game's 
ment after each of the four rounds.  Fifth was japan's Isao Aoki, who  richest, even for the loser .  
..,--­ --------1  
••,.,,,...  I  
I  

ADIDAS*BROOKS DOLPHIN* NEW BALANCE REEBOK *PONY1 and more 
I 
EXPIRES 12·31-84 

~------------------------­

Freshman Matt Beeewsaert led Notre Dame's trouncing of Val­paraiso wttb 14 points yesterday off tbe bench. Classmate Gary Voce also bad 14, wbtle pulltng down 13 rebounds in 14 minutes ofplay. Box scores ofboth the Valpo and DePaul games appear on page 11. 
I 
This coupon good for 10" OFF 1 Athletic apparel and I 10" OFF Athletic shoes 
II 
17911 State Rd. 23 I South Bend, IN 219-272-4373 I 
..II 
shot a 78 to finish at 292. He earned 
S75,000. 
Tom Kite of the United States carded a 72 and finished at 293, for S67,000. Countryman Ben Cren· shaw had a 75 for 294, and S60,000. 
Host Gary Player finished at 297 after a 74. His four-round total tied him with Australian Greg Norman, who shot a 7'5 yesterday, and South African Denis Watson, who ended with a 76. Each won S52,666. 
The tournament at the 7,665-yard Gary Player Country Club In this golf 
"The freshmen have begun to emerge in the scoring," said Stark. "We had good performances from Dowd as he placed second In the 200-yard freestyle and Grace who took second In the 50-yard freestyle." 
The Irish are now Idle until Jan. 4 when the team meets In Puerto Rico for 10 days of Intensive training to prepare for their next meet at Ferris State on Dec. 19. "The kids have to pay their own hotel and plane fare, so not everyone can make the trip. For those who do go, the good wea­ther and training facilities sharpen their competitive edge to perform well in the upcoming meets after the break," said Stark. 

• 
... 
The Observer Monday, December 10, 1984-page 12 
Dallas loss gives Washington. top spot in wacky NFC East 
Associated Press maintaining the Steelers' one-game lead over Cincinnati in the AFC central division. · 
The Washington Redskins took "Offensively, we moved the ball sole possession of first place in the and defensively we felt very good National Football Leagt.!e's NFC East about the way we played," Steelers Division with a 30-28 victory over Coach Chuck Noll said, refusing to the Dallas Cowboys yesterday while criticize his team for blowing a 17-6 Eric Dickerson of the Los Angeles lead. "We're banged up Rams broke O.J. Simpson's rushing defensively." record for a season. Ken Anderson got his first action 
With their big showdown victory in a month and threw for 191 yards over the Cowboys, the Redskins and two touchdowns to keep the inched ahead of three rivals in the Bengals' playoff hopes alive with a wild NFC East with a 10-5 record 24-21 victory over the New Orleans and dropped Dallas into a three-way Saints. tie for second place with one game "I'm looking forward to carrying remaining for all in the regular this thing into the playoffs," Ander­season. son said. "I think we've got just as 
The Cowboys fell to 9-6, the same good a chance to take it all the way record as the St. Louis Cardinals and as anyone else in our division." the New York Giants. The Cardinals Neil Lomax threw three touch­kept their playoff hopes alive with a down passes and Ortis Anderson ran 3 1-21 victory over the Giants. 12 yards in the fourth quarter for the 
The Redskins can win the title tie-breaking score as the Cardinals outright with a victory over St. Louis beat the Giants, 31-Zl. The result next Sunday. The Cowboys play at left both teams with 9-6 records Miami on Monday night and the with only one weekend left in the Giants host New Orleans on Satur­regular National Football League day in their season finales. season. 
Washington running back John "We're just tickled to be where Riggins, hospitalized with • bad back we are," said Cardinals Coach Jim six days ago, rushed for 111 yards, Hanifan, whose team can make the including a 1-yard smash for a playoffs by beating the Washington fourth-quarter touchdown to key Redskins in Washington next Sun­the Redskins' victory. day. 
Meanwhile, DickerSon rushed Meanwhile, the Philadelphia past Simpson's NFL single-season Eagles beat, New England, 27-17, to 
Two record-breaking running backs, Eric Dick­record of 2,003 yards when he ran eliminate the Patriots from playoff erson (29) ofthe Rams and Walter Payton (34) of for 21 5 yards and scored twice as contention in theAFC East and at the Chicago, standarm-in-arm aftera game earlier this the Rams downed the Houston same time handed a wild-card berth season. Dickerson broke OJ. Simpson's single­Oilers 27-16 and kept their to the defending Super Bowl cham­season rushing record with 215 yards yesterday to 
postseason hopes alive. Dickerson, pion Los Angeles Raiders. The the second-year pro out ofSouthern Raiders play at Detroit in tonight's Phelps said he was pleased yester­points, as did freshman Ron Rose. Methodist, boosted his season total game. 
day to find that his bench players are The game raisetl Notre Dame's to 2,007. The Rams, 10-5, can gain a In a shocker, the Kansas City ready to come in to take up the slack record to 5-1, while the Crusaders wild-card berth in the playoffs ifthey Chiefs swamped the Seattle
Valpo 
continued}rom page 16 
when his starters have a bad day. slipped to 1-4. beat San Francisco next week. Seahawks, 34-7, and upset a playoff­manding 36-20 lead over the "What I like is that when one guy The Irish will not play again until In Denver, Rich Karlis kicked bound team for the second week in a Crusaders. is off, another guy comes through," Dec. 30, when they travel to Omaha, three field goals, including a 28-row. The Chiefs beat Denver last 
Notre Dame then opened the Phelps said. "So here's Beeuwsaert Neb., to take on the Bluejays at yarder with 2:08 left, as the Denver week. second half with a 14-3 spurt, and and Voce making a contribution. Creighton University. In addition, Broncos snapped a two-game losing In other action, the AFC East the Irish were able to continue That's very good, and that's what Phelps said the team will not streak with a 16-13 victory over the champion Miami Dolphins defeated playing many players off the bench. you look for because those guys (the practice again until after semester San Diego Chargers. the Indianapolis Colts, 35-17, the 
"Matt Beeuwsaert and Gary Voce starters) aren't going to go out and examinations are finished on Dec. The victory raised the Broncos' Green Bay Packers beat the Chicago came off the bench in the first half play 28 solid games." 19. record to 12-3 and drew them into a Bears, 20-14, and the Tampa Bay and gave us the lift we needed," Of course, not all of the starters The games during Christmas first-place tie with Seattle, which Buccaneers trimmed the Atlanta Fal­Phelps said. "Then, of course, once had bad games. Scott Hicks and Ken break will provide the opportunity bowed to Kansas City, 34-7, in the cons, 23-6. we got the lead, we played 12 Barlow, who scored more than half to see how well the Irish can play AFC West. Denver will play its In games Saturday, the San Fran­people in the first half. We played of Notre Dame's points against their game. The competition will be regular-season finale in Seattle on cisco 49ers crushed the Minnesota people to get them the playing time DePaul on Saturday, added 13 points stiff, and the games will be played on Saturday with the division title at Vikings, 51-7, behind Joe Montana's that they need." apiece in yesterday's effort. hostile courts. stake. three touchdown passes and the 
Giving playing time to his fresh­Freshman Harry Bell, who had The Pittsburgh Steelers and Cin­NewYorkJets beat the Buffalo Bills, men certainly did not hurt Phelps. averaged five points over the "When we start winning on the cinnati lkngals, meanwhile, also 21-17, on Tony Paige's three-yard The four first-year players ac­Crusaders' first four games, led all road against good competition, won Sunday to keep the AFC central TD run in the fourth period. counted for 41 of Notre Dame's scorers yesterday with 1 5 points. that's going 'to be maturity and a down-to-the wire race. The Eagles, who scored three points, as Beeuwsaert and Voce. led Classmate Larry Dougherty, who growth that we need," Phelps said. Gary Anderson kicked a 34-yard touchdowns running all season, the team with 14 each. Voce also was Valparaiso's leading scorer with "The most important thing for us field goal with five seconds remain­picked up three yesterday on rwo dominated the boards, pulling in a an average of 13.3 ppg. going into right now is to keep growing as the ing, giving the Steelers a 23-20 vic­short sweeps by quarterback Joe 
game-high 13 rebounds in 14 yesterday's contest, had only nine season j!;oes on." tory over the Cleveland Browns and Pisarcik and a 10-yard dash · 


minutes ofplay. 
tllll llllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.HIIIIIItlllllllllttlllllltlllttlltltiiHIIIIIIIDIIttllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHHIIIIIIIIIIIII
Beeuwsaert and Voce also helped the Irish shooting percentage by hit­ting 6-of-8 and 5-of-6, respectively, 
STUDENT SPECIAL ALOHA BOWL 
from the floor and 2-of-2 and 4-of-4, respectively, from the free-throw line. Notre Dame finished with a 
December 24-31, 1984
field-goal percentage of .425 and a free-throw percentage of.800. After the game, Phelps had a great 
$899 perpersondeal of praise for his freshmen, and for Beeuwsaert in particular. 
I triple occupancy
"Matt's a hard-nosed player," the Irish coach said. "He's going to work very hard to get easy points, and that's a credit to what he can do. 
TRAVEL WITH THE TEAM Beeuwsaert is going to be a steady player as the season goes on." 
CHARTER FLIGHT FROM CHICAGO
Freshman Jeff Peters scored a season-high seven points, and Rivers contributed six points on disap­
6 NIGHTS WAIKIKI ACCOMMODATIONS 
pointing 3-of-13 shooting to round out the rookies' scoring. 
TRANFERS IN HAWAII WITH 
Correction 
Because of a reporting error, the result of the Zahm-Carroll in­terhall hockey game was incor­rectly given on Friday. Zahm beat Carroll Hall, 2-1, for its first win in five years. Also, Off-Campus downed the Cavanaugh-Howard team, 5-0. 
TICKET TO THE ALOHA BOWL  
Call downtown office only  
236-2656 ask for the Aloha Bowl Master Card orVisa accepted student ID required  I i I  
Box1602  South Bend.ln'diana 46634  (219)236-2656  !  

IHHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIHHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIH...........U ..I!Hft!!IIIIIHIIIHIIII!IIIH!IIIIIIIIII!!H!!UH!UH!I!!IIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIHHIIIHI:Iellll 
The Observer Monday, December 10, 1984-page 13 
Notre Dame digs too deep of a hole in loss to Lake Forest 
By ED DOMANSKY 
.\ports Writer 
Tht· Notre Dame hockey team found out on Saturday night that it must play well for three periods in order to win a game. 
Tht· Irish surrendered three goals before the first intermission, and despite a hard-fought comeback ef­fort in th.e late going, dropped a 5-4 decision to Lake Forest before a vo­cal crowd of I,605 at the ACC. 
The agwessive style of play which has been a (,lominant part of Notre Dame hockey games throughout most of this season was lacking for most of the first period, and was partly responsible for the three Forester goals. But when it resurfaced, it continued into the final two periods and as might be ex­pected, it brought with it its share of penalties for both teams. A total of 22 penalties were called. lbirteen were whistled against the Irish. 
Notre Dame was successful on one of it.o; three powerplay c:hances, while Lake Forest scored twice in seven opportunities. 
The Irish played most of the game without the services of co-captain and leading scorer Brent Chapman. He received a game disqualification penalty at I'5:'56 of the first period when he charged off the bench and decked John Flahive of the Foresters. Moments earlier, Flahive had kicked at Jeff Badallch while he was down on the ice. 
Notre Dame was also without senior defenseman Rob Ricci who 
• 
was required to sit out Saturday's game as a result of receiving a game disqualification penalty for fighting last Saturday against Alabama­Huntsville. 
Co-Captain Bob 'Ibcbeau paced the Irish with one goal and two as­sists. 
The loss ended a three-game win­ning streak for Notre Dame. The Irish, now 5·7, had hoped to even their record before the tough, four­game road trip to the East Coast over the Christmas holidays where they will play Princeton, Holy Cross and compete in the Phoenix Mutual Tournament in Hartford. The tour­ney will feature Yale, Colgate and· Northern Michigan. Lake Forest moves to 7-3. 
"Our defensemen were taking too many chances and getting caught," said Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "Lake Forest is a very quick team and you can't talce chances like that against them." 
Notre Dame had trouble controll­ing the puck in the first period and the quick, aggressive Forester squad took full advantage ofit to grab a 3·0 lead. In the second period, the Irish began to play with more intensity and consistency, and behind some aggressive play of their own, they tallied twice. But the Foresters notched another goal to stay on top, 4-2. 
Notre Dame trailed, 5-4, with 38 seconds remaining and pulled goalie Tim Lukenda to get the extra at­tacker, but couldn't capitalize. In that final period, the Irish outshot Lake Forest, 20-13. 
The Irish suffered an early setback this weekend qualification penalty after this scuffle wltb tbe against Lake Forest when co-captain and leading Foresters' ]obn Flahive. Ed Domansky reviews tbe scorer Brent Chapman was given a game dis-game at left. 
With Thebeau off for holding at Krawchuk then beat Lukenda with a just I:04 left in the period to put 
10:25 of the first period, the wrist shot after he picked up a loose them up, 4-2. Foresters took· advantage of their puck in the left corner and skated in Goals by Thebeau and Tom Parent powerplay and scored within 52 front to shoot. kept Notre Dame hoyes alive in the seconds to talce a l-0 lead on a third period. But Jon Pingree's goal rebound goal by Mike Przybysz. Badalich started the Irish scoring at 6:57 proved to be the winner for Lake Forest then turned on the red just 2:49 into the second period. the Foresters. light twice within 11 seconds. Scott John Nickodemus scored at 14:39 to The Irish are now off until they Parker walked in untouched from a pull the Irish within one. But Kevin travel to Princeton for a Jan. 2 con­faceoff at 14:35 to mak~ it 2-0. Peter Collins scored for the Foresters with test. 
t**********************************~ 
Bob 1bebeau scored a goal in the thirdperiod to enough as Lake Forest prevailed, 5-4, Saturday 
a 
.~ 
: 
*
* 
:* 
f 
: : : 
*
*
:
~ 
: ~ 
lbc Obscrvc·r/Joharui<i 
* 
lnterhall action tottay Basketball 
Stanford vs Zahm 
Alumni vs Off Campus 
Alumni AI vs Keenan 
Dillon vs Howard 
Fisher vs St. Ed's 
Planner vs Pangborn 
Hockey 
Fisher vs Zahm 
. 
~ 
~ 
: 
* 
* 
* 
: : : : 
* 
:* 
~
* 
* 
: 

keep Irish hopes for a win alive, but it was not night in theACC. 
\**********************************~ 
.. 
OFFICE OF 
AdventPenance Service 
LNMR5fTY 
MINISW 
Advent is the season for **** preparationfor the coming ofChrist 
Advent is a time of******** joyful expectation 
Advent is a timefor reconcilliation************ as we prepare to celebrate God in human.flesh 
A PENANCE SERViCE will take place at SACRED HEART CHURCH Tuetr~day December 11th, 10:00p.m. Loujessors are available after the service. 


Ask one of the 3million Americans 
whdve 
survived 
cancer, 
if the money spent on research is worth it. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIE1Y11
+ 
\ 

The Observer Monday, December 10, 1984 -page 14 
Dougherty leads way as Irish take advantage of GU's poor shooting 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
The word Hoya comes from a latin term meaning, "rock." Well, in this case, make that "brick," for that is certainly what one could call the sloppy shooting of the Georgetown women's basketball team at the ACC on Saturday afternoon. But while the Hoyas were demonstrating their masonry, the Irish were wrapping up their third victory in the last four games to even their record at 3-3. 
Notre Dame won this one easily by a score of 72-49 as the Hoyas, coming off a big loss to Maryland where they shot only .321 from the field, continued their horrid shoot­ing, connecting at a mere .364 clip. The Irish, on the other hand, sank 44 percent of · their attempts, and benefited from a game-high 20 points from se~or guard Laura Dougherty. 
Strangely enough, the contest started out looking as though it was going to be a horse race to the wire. There were nine ties in the first half as the teams exchanged baskets. The Irish began the scoring off the opening tip, as forward Trena Keys batted the ball to teammate Sandy Botham, who converted the easy layup for a 2-0 lead. After a pair of Alyson Westbrooks free throws tied the score for Georgetown, standout Hoya guard Maura Gill went to work. The 5-5 senior hit a jumper from the top of the key to give her team a 4-2 lead, and then moments later, netted a pair of outside shots before sinking a stunning 20-footer to regain the lead, 16-14, with 1 0:06 left. The Irish, meanwhile, were able to stay close to the Hoyas mostly through the efforts of center Carrie Bates and forward Sandy Botham. The duo combined to score 1 0 of the 14 Irish points at this point, and 21 of the team's total points in the game. Gill, however, cooled off and the rout began. 
"Gill hurt us early," said Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "But I knew that good defense would eventually wear her down, and in the end she didn't hurt us." 
With Maura Gill worn out from the man-to-man defense of Notre Dame, the Irish offense went to work, running off a string of 1 7 con­secutive points to give the Irish a comfortable halftime cushion. The avalanche began with just over eight minutes remaining in the half when the 6-1 Bates banked a short shot off the glass to tie the score at 20 apiece. She followed that effort with a layup moments later to give the Irish a lead they would never relinquish. And after a nifty pass from top substitute Mary Bed\ Schueth found Sandy Bot­ham alone under the basket for a 26­20 Irish lead, second-year Georgetown coach Cheryl Thompson called timeout in an at­tempt to recompose her squad. But the efforts of the Georgetown of­fense to get the ball inside to its 6-1 
Box 
Georgetown (411) 
M FG-A FT·A  R  F  p  
Knight  39  5·8  3-4  10  2  13  
Westbrooks  18  2-4  2-4  5  5  6  
Gothard  22  0-0  0-0  3  1  0  
Gill  34  8-19  0-0  5  1  16  
Bendall  36  3-10  4-4  4  4  10  
Smith  1  0-1  0-0  0  0  0  
Blley  3  0-1  0-0  1  1  0  
Cwieka  6  1-2  0-0  1  1  2  
Barbour  10  0-2  0-0  0  1  0  
Price  18  0-3  0-0  3  2  0  
Dolan  12  1-5  0-0  4  1  2  

senior center Alyson Westbrooks failed because of the tight, collaps­ing Notre Dame defense. 
"We didn't want the shots to come inside," s3..id the fifth-year Irish coach. "That's" why (the defense) crowded around Westbrooks." 
At the half, which ended with a 35-22 Irish lead, Westbrooks had only two points and three personal fouls, while Carrie Bates had 1 0 points for the Irish. · 
In the second half, the Irish con­tinued to dominate the game as Laura Dougherty worked the ball to the basket twice in the opening three minutes to up the Irish lead to 41-24. With Dougherty consistently getting open and with the inef­fectiveness of their own offense, the Hoyas could manage only to main­tain the difference through the outside shooting ofGill. 
After a three-point play by Schueth put the Irish up, 62-39, with 
5:01 remaining, there was nothing left for the coaches to do but to clear their benches. Everyone on the Irish roster saw action, with the excep­tion of freshman guard Mary Gavin, who dressed for the game but was not entirely healed from a thigh bruise. The only thing left for the 550 fans in attendance to do, mean­while, was to sit back and enjoy the organ accompaniment from visiting Chicago White Sox organist, Nancy Faust. · 
At the conclusion of the game, DiStanislao seemed happy with her team's performance, but not totally satisfied. 
"I'm still concerned about our reb.ounding," she said. "We were outrebounded (41-38) tonight. "Also, I'm still a bit concerned about our shot selection." 
"But," the coach admitted, "You have to feel pleased." "The defense held them under SO points and anytime they can do that, I will feel pleased. "I think things are begin­ning to come together. "Everyone is coming to play, and (team captain) Laura Dougherty has taken over the role of leadership, al01\g with Mary Beth Schueth and Carrie Bate&." 
Dougherty, who hails from Hil­lsdale, N.J., also felt good about her 20-point performance and the team's victory. 
"It's the second consecutive game that we've played well and that the whole team has felt a part of it," she said. "Something was missing from our first two games. "Maybe we just had to get mad at ourselves. "I think those two losses helped us to realize that." 
"As for me," she continued, "I'm starting to understand my role on the team as a captain. "First, I had to get my personal game down. "Now I feel pretty good, and everyone's playing well." 
The Irish will travel to Northern Illinois for their next battle, a Dec. 12 date with the Huskies, before re­turning home on Dec. 20 to play host to Michigan State at the ACC. 
Score 
Notre O.me (72) 
M FG·A  FT·A  R  F  p  
Keys  20  3·8  2·2  3  3  8  
Botham  17  4-7  0-0  2  4  8  
Bates  32  6-11  1-4  5  0  13  
Dougherty  26  8-16  4-4  3  1  20  
Basford  27  0-0  0-0  2  3  0  
Skieresz  4  0-1  0-0  1  1  0  
Ebben  7  1-3  0-0  0  1  2  
Schueth  16.  2-8  2-3  5  2  6  
Brommeland 3  1-1  0-0  1  0  2  
Barron  6  0-0  2-4  0  0  2  
Kaiser  14  1-1  0-0  0  3  2  

Yeoman 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 o Willis 7 0-2 1·2 3 2 1 200 20.55 11-12 38 111 411 Thompson 17 3-8 0-0 3 0 6 
FG Pet. .364. FT Pet. • .750. Team Morrison 4 1-2 0-0 1 0 2 rebounds -5. Turnovers -25. Assists -5 • 200 30.68 12-111 211 20 72 (Knight2). Technicals ·None. FG Pet. -.441. FT Pet. -.632. Team 
rebounds -4. Turnovers -13. Assists -13 (Dougherty 6). Technicals-None. 
Halftime· Notre Dame 35, Georgetown 22. Officials -Tom Slade, Ron Applegate, . A­550. 
0. 
' . .. .
~ ~ 
Sophomore Vonnie Thompson came off the plagued by poor shooting their last two games. bench to score sixpoints in Saturday's 72-49 drub­Senior guard Laura Dougherty led the Irish scorers bing of the Georgetown Hoyas, who have been with 20points. Marty Burns details the game atleft. 
OPEN Monday-Wednesday for CHRISTMAS **Mon.:***Dec. 10 **********M­
* *
! $1 IMPORTS ! 
r**************************1 
**Tues.;***~December 11*********"* 
* * 
~ 25~BEERS ~ 
* * 
~******************************* 

t*Wed·************December 12***************~ : . NEW YEARS EVE REHEARSAL ~ !STREAMERS, CONFE1TI AND FREE CHAMPAGNE ! : at MIDNIGHT! 
*

\********************************************* 
MERRY CHRISTMAS and HAPPY NEW YEAR from Senior Bar 
~~~C3L~----------------------------------------M•o•n•d•a•y•,D•e•c•e•m•b•e•r•1•0•,•1•98•4---p·a•g•e•l--5
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
AIJ50i.JJ7CiY, BaJ151&t I lH!NI<MYLJSlliJBS 
ffl:M WHATI'M 7011), >W'f?& ONE 
GOSH, 7HifT WEI.L,MY5HfXAI's 
RIGHTNOW~

OF 7H& H(JT NW TALENTS IN 7/JIJ/N. 
50i/N/J5l/K& 70N16HT, 50IF
fA/CW) 8£fNTl?J(j(HJ 
8tiTI HAVEN'T

I WAf.IT 70 HfARH(),(JA 'IOON6 
RJNl ti/H&N IT'5 OKAYtui7H
7D HEM ALL AWn! 
ANYTHING ON/

K:TR&SS HANfJllS AU THAT 
{)() YO// WANT )ttl, I'IJ LIKE "-... ATTENTION! 
7H& NBA/ I(}Uy/JI(]JJ. 
70 llO If? 70 TAP£ IT
/ 
~ RIGHTNOW. (/ff/!J1lJJJJI~ / 
' 
~ 
12.·10 

Bl0001 County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larso~ 
50Mc I WOI/l./? FetL 7DrrYHMP OffGNI'£/?... /JIJT15 MfXJNb Vl/l.CIIN Rellif1f£R 
&£!1/(~b /1 PO W~jp, 
\, ) 

Campus 
•12: 
1 5 -1:1 5 p.m. -Econ. Dept. Development Workshop, "Peasants in the Transition to Socialism," Carmen Diana Deere, Kellogg Institute, Room 131 Declo Hall. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chem. Dept. Reilly Lecture, "Spectroscopy of Transient Species From the R.F. to the U.V. Through the Ages," Prof. Terry Miller, AT & T Bell Laboratories, Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Prof. Angus Macintyre, Yale & University of Illinois, Sponsored by College of Science, Room 226 CCMB. 

•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, 122 Hayes Healy. 

•6: 
I 5 p.m. -Meeting, Mexico City Program, "The Mexican," Sponsored by Foreign Studies Program, 110 O'Shaughnessy. 

•7 
& 9 p.m.-Social Concerns Fllm, "In the King ofPrussia," Engine~ring Auditorium, Free. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "American Partisan Politics­A Clear Choice?" Shirley Chisholm, Former Con· gresswoman of New York, Sponsored by Distin· guished American Woman Lecture Series CCE Auditorium. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 7:00p.m. 16 M0 A•s•H 22 Three's Company 7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 2 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 
8:00p.m. 16 Mickey's Christmas Carol 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. Klng 28 Call to Glory 34 Wonderwork.~ 
9:00p.m. 16 Movie -The Sun Also Rises 22 Kate & Allie 28 Football -LA. Raiders at Detroit 34 American Playhouse 
9:30p.m. 22 Newhart 10:00p.m. 22 Cagney & Lacey 34 Harry S. Truman: Plain Speaking 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 Movie -Angel On My Shoulder 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 
22 Simon & Simon/McMillan t:z:OOa.m. 28 Newswatch 28 12:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
28 ABC News Nightllne 
1:00 a.m. 28 Love Connection 
2:00 a.nr. 22 Nightwatl·h 

The Daily Crossword 
37 Wedding 61 Shredded 11 Vaticinator 1 Bulk words cabbage 13 -Antilles 5 Game marble 38 Russ. moun-62 Church seat 14 Loner 8 Snakes talns 63 Breeding horse 17 Required 
12 Fish sauce ACROSS 21 Bladed pole 39 Pirate captain 24 Buddhist king 13 Indian water 40 Like the of oldvessel weather DOWN 25 Jerry or 42 Beast of 1 Brewing 
Sinclair 15 Sad 
burden mixture 16 Marine polyp 
43 Canyons 2 Away from the 27 Sales pitch wind 28 Bike part 18 Use an auger 44 Charged 19 Legatee 
particle 3 Atlantic 29 Win by­20 Cavalryman 45-Caesar 
resort spots 30 Hardtack 4 Frighten 31 Greeting22 Obsel'les 46 Water bodies 32 Ruhrclty23 Gym equipment 48 Cut short 34 But: Lat. 
24 "-My Sons" 52 Postures 26 Gloom 5 Jones and 
55 Atop 30 That girl 56 Marine weed Seaver 35 Monastery man 58 Sports 6 From-Z 38 Dislodge 33 Fabled marine att~ndance 7 Desire 40 Cruel person 
monster 59 Come to a 8 Head churchman 41 Pearl haven 35 Charges point 9 Spill over 43 Byway of 36 Had 60 Ireland 10 Unadulterated 45 Scatter 

* 
************************************* *
* *
* SAB SERVICES CommiHee Presents: * 
* *
* 
*

* 
SPRING SKI EXTRAVAGANZA *
* *
* to WINTER PARK, COLORADO *** for $299.00 ** 
* * 
** Informational Meeting: * 
* * 
Tuesday, Dec. llth1, at 7:00p.m. 
*

* * 
In La~ortune Little Theatre. 
* * 
* *
* * 
** ************************************* * 
* 

SAB Special Events & Campus Entertainment Committees Present: 
GUIDO SARDUCCI LIVE 

IN Washington Hall Saturday, Jan.17 at 8:00 &10:00 p.m. 
...
tickets on SALE Now!!! $5 at SAB Record Store $6 at the door ALL SEATS RESERVED 

Monday, December 10, 1984 -page 16
S~orts 
Notre Dame routs Valparaiso after loss to No.2 DePaul 
Crusaders gain new facility, but lose game to Irish, 88-57 
ByPHll.WOLF minutes of the game, and "stiff" ac­AssistantSports Editor curately describes the Irish rebounding and shooting during 
VALPARAISO, Ind. -Itisratherun­that period, as they had trouble hit­usual for a basketball coach to thank ting their shots and allowed the his opponent following an 88-57 Crusaders to come away with the trouncing, but that is exactly what rebounds. Valparaiso coach Tom Smith did yes­Valparaiso got on the scoreboard terday after Notre Dame handed his first when three Irish players failed squad its fourth defeat in five games. to score after controlling the 
"I think it's a real nice gesture that opening tip. The Crusaders led by this happened today because it cer­four at 4-0 and 6-2 before David tainly helped us fill our place and it Rivers gave Notre Dame a 7-6lead at gave some excitement to our kids 5:34. Freshman Matt Beeuwsaert and our program," Smith said. then put the Irish ahead to stay at 9­
The gesture for which Smith was 8, and he proceeded to rattle off six so grateful was Notre Dame's agree­consecutive points for Notre Dame. ment to play the Crusaders in the At that point, Notre Dame started dedication game in their new 4,500-hitting its shots and crashing the seat Athletics-Recreation Center. boards effectively. Phelps then The Irish also played in the dedica­employed full-court pressure tion game in Valparaiso's Hilltop against the Crusaders, and the game Gymnasium in 1939 and again in soon was out of their reach. 1962 when the facility was ex­The Irish held their opponents panded. Notre Dame won both of scoreless for five minutes, beginning those contests-63-26 in 1939 and with 6:54 remaining in the half, 
lbc Ob5crvcr/Johanncs Hacker 
102-90 in 1962. while they ran off 13 points of their Notre Damefreshman guard David Riversfound day, however, as they pounded a helpless Val­
The Irish, in fact, have defeated own. At halftime, they owned a com-that he had a lot to learn from Blue Demon senior paraiso squad, 88-57. Phil Wolfdescribes the Valpo the Crusaders in 27 of the 28 guard Kenny Patterson in DePaul's 95-83 win over · game at left, while Eric Scheuermann bas details meetings of the two teams. Notre see VALPO, page 12 the Irish on Saturday. The IT'ish fared better yester-from the DePaul game below. 
Dame's only loss to Valparaiso came at home in the Fieldhouse, 32-26, in the 1920-21 season. 
Corbin, Comegys lead Blue Demons in 95-83 win over NP 
Despite the lopsided record, the coaches of both teams said they are By ERIC SCHEUERMANN things." slam dunk, and the Demons coasted The Demons' high shooting anxious to continue the series. Sports Writer The Blue Demons took control to a 44-33 halftime lead. percentage is a good illustration of 
"For us to play Valparaiso is out of from the beginning, as the Irish Sweet-shooting forward Tyrone Notre Dame's inability to consis­respect for each institution, for what ROSEMONT, Ill. -Taking a 4-0 started out very slowly in front of Corbin and Comegys led DePaul all tently slow down DePaul's transi­we stand for: working with student­record into Saturday's game with 17,499 screaming fans in the afternoon, each scoring 20 points tion offense. Many of the Demons' athletes," Irish coach Digger Phelps DePaul, Digger Phelps hoped for "a Rosemont Horizon. After a Jim while gathering 12 rebounds be­shots were layups, slam dunks and said. "We will continue to have that Notre Dame moment." But all the Dolan jumper gave Notre Dame a 2-tween them. Time and time again, short jumpers, coming off Patterson­relationship with schools like this Irish came away with was a lesson in 0 lead, it was all DePaul for the next one or the other would fly over the led fast breaks. because I think that it's very healthy basketball execution provided by eight minutes. Irish to tip in missed Blue Demon Besides doing a fine job 
for Division I basketball." the host Blue Demons, whose The Irish could only manage four first shots. defensively on Rivers, Patterson was 
Yesterday's game may have been a strength, speed and experience more points in that period, and the "Let's not kid ourselves," Phelps able to score 14 points and hand out healthy boost for Valparaiso's bas­proved to be the difference in a 95-Demons took control of the contest had said before the game. "(DePaul) nine assists. Perhaps his most impor­ketball program, but for the first few 83 DePaul victory. by jumping out to a 18-6lead. When has some guys that can jump. Most of tant contribution was leading the minutes, it appeared that it was Phelps and the Irish had hoped to DePaul senior point guard Kenny our guys might jump maybe three Demons through the Irish full-court going to be a sickening contest for control DePaul's offensive rebound­Patterson stole the ball from David inches off the ground, so we've got press which had produced the Irish. The Crusaders kept up ing and awesome transition game, Rivers for two of those points, it to box out." numerous turnovers in the last few with Notre Dame for the opening 10 but they could do neither, and the seemed to show all those watching It was in this respect that the Irish games. 
minutes, and they even held the lead Demons rode these strengths to a that the highly-touted Demons failed most visibly on Saturday. Al­DePaul committed very few turn­for the first five-and-a-half minutes of victory even easier than it appears would not be upstaged by the though the finat rebounding totals overs on Saturday, and this the game. from a glance at the final score. surprising youngsters from South were almost even, second-shot bas­prevented the Irish from getting a 
"At the start of the game, we were "The two things we tried to take Bend this time. kets hurt Notre Dame all game long. long spurt ofpoints which had led to sluggish," Phelps admitted. "It's only away were their transition offense The Irish seemed to be coming And it was not as though DePaul the early season victories. The natural that we were stiff since we and their offensive rebounding," back when two free throws by needed the second shot often. The longest run for the Irish against the played two games back-to-back." said Phelps after the loss. "But our Rivers with 3:21 to go in the halfcut Demons shot a dazzling 60 percent Demons was five points in a row. 
"Sluggish" is an excellent word to breakdowns in the first half were in the DePaul lead to 30-25. But super­from the field for the game, outshin­"We like to press," explained describe Notre Dame's offensive and these areas, and they scored 18 of sub Dallas Comegys quickly pushed ing the 53 percent success rate of defensive execution in the initial their first-half points on those the lead back up with an amazing the Irish. see DePAUL, page 10 
The apprenticeship of freshman guard David Rivers 
ROSEMONT, Ill. -Long before David Rivers was ever 
In addition to the lesson Rivers got from Patterson, as a 
born, there existed a system in which a young man would team Notre Dame learned from the second-ranked work next to someone older and more experienced to Demons what it takes to be one of the top teams in the learn the tools of the trade. Ifhe worked hard enough and Jeff Blumb nation. In switching to an up-tempo style this year, it was to was talented enough, there was the possibility that he Assistant Sports Editor be expected that the Irish would run into a few problems might someday become just as good as the craftsman he along the way. • 
was working next to. DePaul is very good at playing transition offense and at 
Back in those days, a young man learned what it takes to offensive rebounding, which were two of the Notre Dame be a good cobbler or blacksmith through hands-on experi­coaches' biggest concerns in preparation for the game. ence. Saturday, Rivers got a lesson in what it takes to be a stealing the ball away. Or his shot selection, which hasn't When it came time to play, the Irish had trouble containing good point guard from DePaul's Kenny Patterson. Notre been as good as it will be someday. the Demons in both areas. DePaul made five ofthe six shots 
Dame's talented freshman learned a few things from the "Rivers is going to grow with each game," said Irish it took on transition offense in the first half and also con­senior Patterson, one of the nation's finer point guards. coach Digger Phelps. "It just takes time. Obviously Patter­verted four of its five offensive rebounds in the period. In 
Rivers took advantage ofhis apprenticeship, picking up a son was a shade ahead of him. It was just a case of experi­all, the breakdown cost Notre Dame 18 points, 18 points few pointers that might help him down the road in his ence vs. inexperience." which highly contributed to DePaul's 44-33 halftime lead. career. Probably the biggest thing he learned was that con­But Phelps tells a story of something that happened last "There were things in transition that we weren't able to centration weighs just as heavy as talent in big games like week which tells him that his freshman really wants to get do today," said Phelps. "We wanted to take away DePaul's Saturday's between the Irish and Blue Demons. better. two best offenses, transition offense and offensive 
"I have to learn to concentrate on the situation more," "I brought him in to the office after the Indiana game. I rebounding. We practiced those two things all week. In the said Rivers when the lesson was over. "There were times said, 'Dave, there's a few things I want to show you that you game, though, we flunked. We got an 'F."' when I was overaggressive and should have played more did wrong.' You know, he was the first kid in my 14 years The Irish will have lots of time to correct the two prob­
under control. Kenny's really a good player. He knew these here to take film notes. I mean, he actually took out a lems they had Saturday before meeting up with the kind of things, myself not knowing them as a freshman. notebook and wrote things down." Demons again, Jan. 20 at the ACC before a national televi­
-
Everything in the game goes back to concentration." "Beinga freshman, I felt (Rivers) had more to prove than sion audience on NBC. Surely, Phelps and his assistants will 
It wasn't that Rivers had a bad game. Sixteen points and I did," added Patterson, who verbally badgered the fresh­have the two near the top of their list of things to work on eight assists doesn't exactly qualify him for bench status. man for much ofthe game. "But he has a great deal oftalent come Dec. 26, when the team goes back to regular But there's a few mistakes that he Isn't likely to repeat. Like and Digger gives him a lot offreedom, and when you have practices after final exams. You can bet they won't fail this his fifth foul, a reach-around where he had little chance of talent and the freedom, you can show what you can do." exam the second time around. 

