Terrorism -page3 
tlw imkpc:ndc:nt ~tudcnt new~papcr .,en ing notrl dame and ~aint Illa!)·., 


The Observer% Paul Cl&relll
Cheers! 
Tbe student section at Saturday's Marquette basketball game waved signs passed out by Students for Continued Responsible Drinking. The students were protesting the possibili~y of a dry campus. Information on the game, which Notre Dame won, on page 12. 



Shange initiates Literary Festival 
By CHRISTOPHER RYAN 
News Staff 
"I am compelled to write because it's in my genes," said Ntozake Shange, a black writer and the first of the six literary figures to be featured during this week's Sophomore Literary Festival. 
The writer also told last night's audience at Washing­ton Hall, ''I'm not searching for why I write, it just 
comes to me." 
After reading some of her works last night, many in the audience would have to agree that her talent is purely natural and certainly something that "just · comes" to her. for the entire audience seemed to be mesmerized by the portions of her works that she read for over an hour. 
The works that she read. mostly poems, engrossed the audience not necessarily because of their style or form. but more because ofher feelings about the black's status in the United States and around the world. Her poetry revealed the many injustices that blacks, par­ticularly black women, must bear and suffer in everyday life. A dominating tone ofanger and rage over the plight of blacks around the globe was the prevailing message that Shange successfully got across to her audience. 
It is said that any writer who reads their works before an audience is capable of bringing out an added dimen­sion for the audience toward both experiencing and un­derstanding the work. Standing alone behind a simple blue podium, Shange proved to be an entertaining per­former, as she successfully made her written words come alive for her audience. Making use of an ex­pressive tone of voice, as well as hand gestures and fu­cial expressions, the writer brought forth her poetry more vividly and with added meaning. 

Shange read excerpts from some of her well-known published works, including poetry from her most popular workFor Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/ When the Rainbow is Enuf , a collection of poems exploring the everyday trials of black women. 
see SHANGE page 3 


By PATRICK MULLEN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The United States government and the Palestinian Liberation Or­ganization held unofficial negotia­tions between August 1981 and May 1982,The New York Times reported last week, and John Edwin Mroz, a 1970 Notre Dame graduate, served as the mediator for these undis­closed talks. 
From 1975 to 1981. Mroz was ex­ecutive vice president and director ofMiddle East studies at the Interna­tional Peace Academy. It was in this capacity that Mroz wrote the book Beyond Securiry which consists of private opinions ofvarious Arab and Israeli officials about the Middle East conflict. Mroz compiled the in­formation during various trips to the area. 
In his book, Mroz concludes among other things that peacemak­ing efforts are hindered greatly by "publicly enunciated demands to an 
This includes Israeli demands that its right to exist be recognized by the PLO before talks can be opened between the two groups. 
This "recognition" of Israel is precisely what Mroz was trying to obtain from the Palestinians. 
In an interview with The New York Times, Mroz said "Ifl could get Arab recognition of Israel, there's nothing I could do that would be more important in my life." 
Father Robert Griffin. University chaplain, remembers Mroz when he was at Notre Dame, and recalls him as a "very pleasant and open young man" and "a natural politician." 
Griffin said Mroz was also very ambitious and interested in doing good in his life. According to Griffin, Mroz probably had John F. Ken­nedy's saying '"Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you 


University alumnus serves as Mideast intermediary 
can do for your country' chiseled Beyond The Law, at Stepan Center. 
over his bed." In 1968, Mroz became chairman Mroz, a government major of the Student Union Academic specializing in Soviet affairs while at Commission. According to the 1969 Notre Dame, was a very active and edition ofDome. Notre Dame's year­energetic student. book, Mroz "built the SliAC from In a time when student activity on what was essentialy a one-man campus was abundant, Mroz was operation to an organization one of the most industrious stu­encopassing more than 100 stu­dents. dents." During his time as chairman As a sophomore, Mroz was chair­the commission sponsored an Abor­man of the Second Annual tion Gmference, a controversial Sophomore Literary Festival. In Pornography Conference which ac­hieved national attention, and a Dis­tinguished Speakers Series including
background information 
such prestigious speakers as AI

in story below 
Capp, Charles Schulz, Ronald 
Reagan. and Edward Kennedy, a per­what Information Services Director sonal friend of Mroz. Richard Conklin remembers as one In 1969. Mroz ran for Student of best years in the festival's history, Body President on what he called Mroz brought Norman Mailer, the "progressive ticket." His plat­Joseph Heller, Ralph Ellison, Peter form for the election featured a com­DeVries, and Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. to mitment to academic freedom and a Notre Dame. proposal to establish referenda on 
Norman Mailer, a personal friend of Mroz, even screened the interna­
see MROZ page 4 
adversary  to  accept  some  rigid  
preconditions  prior  to  formal  
negotiations."  

tional premiere of his movie, 

US-PLO negotiations fall short of success 
By PATRICK MULLEN ment has refused to recognize 
SeniorStaffReporter the Palestinian group unless they 
recognize Israel's right to exist 
and accept United Nations The negotiations between the Resolutions 242 and 338. 
P.L.O. and the United States, Because of this policy and the which were not revealed until United States's close ties with Is­last week, lasted from August rael, the U.S. government has not 1981 to May 1982 and were final­been able to join in any direct ly ended when the Israeli army talks with the P.L.O., an impedi­invaded southern Lebanon in ment which many Arab leaders June. tinct restrictive in attempts to es­
The problems between the tablish peace in the area. Mroz's Palestinians and the Israelis activities, in fact, were not official remain unsolved to this day. and he was not paid for his in­largely due to the difficulty in volvement as an intermediary. resolving formalities such as The negottattons were in­
P.L.O. 
recognition of Israel and itiated after then-Secretaty of consequent U.S. refusal to estab­State Alexander M. Haig got lish a direct dialogue with the President Reagan's approval, but 

P.L.O. 
were kept confidential in order 


At the time, John Mroz was to avoid likely Israeli protest. The vice president and director of Israelis are not fond ofany kind of Middle East Studies at the Inter­talks between the U.S. and the national Peace Academy in New P.L.O. Former Ambassador to the York. The academy is an institute U.N. Andrew Young resigned af­that provides trammg in ter it was found he had held an diplomacy and peacemaking for unauthorized meeting with the diplomats and military officials P.L.O. representative there. from 114 nations. Flying back and forth between 
In conjunction with the Washington and Beirut, Mroz Academy, Mroz went on various held 50 meetings for 400 total information-gathering mtsstons hours with Arafat. The effort was to the Mid East and spoke with all but forgotten in Washington more than I 7'; government because Haig and others hadn't leaders and non-government offi­had much confidence in the cials in order to update the un­results of the initiative at its out­derstanding of the private set. thoughts and views of these The talks. however, almost various officials. As a result of resulted in an agreement in late these private talks, Mroz wrote May when the P.L.O. promised to the book BeyondSecuri~y, which reply to the latest U.S. proposal. received good reviews among Unfortunately, no reply was ever both the Arabs and the Israelis. given after the Israelis invaded 
It was due to this book that Lebanon onJune 6. Mroz was approached by a mem­ber of the P.L.O. in New York The U.S. attempted to re­with close ties to P.L.O. head Vas­establish negotiations by sending ser Arafat. The P.L.O. wanted to Mroz to meet Arafat in Tunis, but negotiate with the U.S. using Arafat refused to meet with him. Mroz as an intermediary. The Palestinians felt as if they had 
Since the Ford Administration been betrayed by the IJ.S. when it established the U.S. policy in gave the Israelis "a green light" to 1975. the United States govern-invade Lebanon. 
The Observer Monday, February 27, 1984it-page 2 


In Brief 
Adozen governorswill discuss the crisis concerning tht: possible shutdown of interstatt: highway projects with Transportation St:cretary l'!izaheth Dole and most of them, in Wash­ington ti>r a winter mt:eting, plan trips to tht: Capitol to pressure local congressmen. Stall' and fedt:ral officials warn the entire con­struction st:ason may be lost ht:cause of a political standoff in Congrt:ss blocking rt:lt:ast: of SS billion in road money. But Indiana Gov. Roht:rt Orr, ht:ad of the National Governors' Association's transportation U>mmittet:, said the money may he locked up another thret: to six months, which ht: called "disastrous." -AP 
I>efense Secretary Caspar Weinberger told a skl·ptical group of thl· nation's governors yesterday defense spend­ing does not contribute materially to the federal deficit. But the governors offerl·d a plan to cut !60 billion from the military over five years to cut thl· red ink hy nt:arly two-thirds. Virginia Gov. Charles Rohh. a Democrat, said not a great deal has changed in the past two decadt:s: "Tht: namt:s ofthe weapons systems have changed. But two things remain tht· same. The major threat is still the Soviet Union and till' major problem is money." Wt:inbergt:r dismissed criticisms of the economic impact ofdefense spt·nding, saying it is in part respon­sihk for tht· t·conomk rt:covery. -AP 
A 6-foot-long mountain lion tried to vault a moving car on Interstate 15 in IIdena, Mont., hut instead was hit by the car and killed. "At t1rst it looked like he was going to hit the windshield, and I thought, 'What am I going to do with a lion in my lap?"' said the drivt·r, Charks Lid man. The 1.30-pound lion struck the grille on the left front of Lidman's car Wednt·sday night and was knockl·d hack into the median and died, Lidman said. Lidman es­timated the damage to the vehicle at about S I, 500. -AP 
Of Interest 
"A Challenge to WOmen: The American 
Economy. Do You Really Know What's c;oing On'" will he the sub­ject ofa discussion ll'd hy June Collier, president and chiefexecutive oftkn of National Industries, Inc. at 6:.30 p.m. today in Room 303 of tht· llaggar College Center at Saint Mary's. Recently cited by Savry magazine as one of the top women executives in the United States, Collier timndt·d National Industries in Montgomery, Ala., with her husband, Ben. Collin's visit is sponsored by the Department of Busi­
ness and Economics. -The Ohsen•er 
The bulls and bears ofNotre Dame will 
get a dunn· to provt· their investment prot1cicncy beginning today with the opt·ning of the Finance Club's mock stock market. Students may purchase S I 00,000 accounts for S5 and will have until Mar. 9 to invest tht· "money" in sn:uritics listed on New York, American, NAS­DAQ or option l'Xl'h;mgt·s. Trading hours an· 9-11 a.m. and 1-.3 p.m. Monday through Friday in the lobby of thl· Hurley Business Ad­ministration Building. Prizes will ht· awarded to the three best performing portti>lios. Any student -IIIlA or non-BBA -iseligible. 
-The Ohsert•er 


Weather 
Nobody told me there'd be days like these. A winter storm watch is in effect through tonight. Near I00 percent chance ti>r snow through tomorrow. Snow heavy at times. Highs today in the: low jOs. Lows tonight in the mid 20s. Steady or slowly falling tem­peratures tomorrow. Strangt· days indeed. -AP 
The Observer 
The Observer ( 1·~~ ~')<) l··IOOO) h puhla~hcd ,\1onUay through rritlay am.l on home: football ~aturdays, c:xn:pt durin~( t•xam anLI \'at·ation pt•rioc..b. The Observer i~ puhli~ht·d hy the.· Mudc..·nt!'l of lhc..· l'niVt·rsily of Notre..· Dame.: and ~aim Marf:"t Collt·gc..· Suh~cription!-1 rna~ he..· purcha"<:d for Sl~ pt·r ynr ( 51~ p..-r ~~rtt·mc:stcr) hy wriling The Observer, P <) Box Q, Notn: Damc..·.Im..liana -i6';';6 
The Observer;, • mcmht·r ofThe As­
sociated Press. All rc..·proc..hKtion riKhts 
arc..· rt·st·rvt·d. 
Today's issue..· was produced by: 

Protluclioll Consultant .................... Steve Design l:'ditor......................................... Troy Destwz Ass/sian/.................. ............ Cheryl l.ayoul.l"laff.... Ciaire. Ann, Kathleen. Ln 1)•P••sell<'f"S............................ Michelk. Nick Nt•u.·s t'ditor ............................................Tom CofJI' Etl/lor .......................................... Marc Spor/s CofJI' Edllor.............................. ..... Ed Vit•u•[JcJilll L'~l'CJUI .............................. .. John f't•atures Layout .................................. Mary ND Da1• l:."dllor .............................. Katy. Earl SMC Day Ed/lor .......................... ..........jody T)•fJisl ... . ..................................... Betsy Pbolograpber. ....................................Thorn 


SMC parents weekend successful 

By DIANNE McBRIEN 
News Staff 
The: 1984 Saint Mary's Sophomor 
Parents Weekend was a well­
planned success, according to soph­
omores and their parents 
interviewed yesterday. 
Most parents cited the Class Mass, 
celebrated Saturday afternoon in the 
Church of Loretto, as one of the 
weekend's high points. "I was very 
impressed with the: Mass," com­
mented Pat Cain of West Hartford, 
Connecticut. "It was lovely." 
Other activities were: praised by 
both parents and their daughters. All 
said Saturday evening's dinner 
dance was well-organized and 
enjoyable. "We had a wonderful 
time at the dance:. We were 
impressed to see how many parents 
turned out," remarked Carol and jim 
McCauley of Houston. 
Other parents enjoyed the: Faculty Open House:. "It was great that it was all in one building -I thought we would have to visit each department in its building," said Marie: Bettinger of Coldwater, Mich. Hc:r husband Dick added, "We: enjoyed meeting our daughter's teachers. Now we know who she's talking about." Their daughter Mary Lynn said the Sophomore Variety Show was a success. "I found out that I know a lot ofpeople with a lot of talc:nt." 
What did parents like best about the: weekend? "Everything," said Maryjean and Richard Grammens of Findlay, Ohio. Commented jack Ahern of Park Ridge. Illinois, father of Emily: "It was a blast!" Parents agreed with their daughters that the: best part of the: weekend was the: chance to sc:e one another. 
Chairman Mary Beth Lavc:zzorio was plc:asc:d with the: wc:ekc:nd. She said all events were wdl attended, especially the: dinner dance which was attended by I,003 persons. Lavezzorio noted th e weekend was the activity most participated in so far by the Class of '86, and said any problc:ms in organization had been minimal and were easily solved by the committee. "It was wdl worth the time," she said. "I think we can call this one of the best weekends ever." 
COUNSELINE A eervice to the NO community 239·7793 HOURS: 4·10pm Mon-l'hurs. Counsehne', a free. conf1den11al telephone service that otters professionally taped matenals that cover a w1de variP~~-~!..~tudent concerns  
TAPE NO TITlE 1 Fr.endstup BuiiChno 1 Dealtng 'ltftlh Conslrucltve Crrltctt.m 1!1 Dealtng wtlh Anger 9 Under,landtng Jealouty ano How IO Deal Wtlh II 10 Ha. lo Say "NO 16 8ecomtng Open to 04hers 11!1 ClaltngSktlls lO AMlftely and Posstble Ways Ia Cope Wllhll 32 How to Deal wtlh Lonhness l3 How to Handle Fears J5 Butldmg seii·Eiteem & Coni~~ 37 F\elax•no Exerctses 38 Cop•no wtth Stress 39 Female Se~ Role· Changes and Siren « Learntng lo Accept Yourself 61 What tS Therapy & How 10 Use It 83 How lo Cope wtlt'. a Broken Aelattonshtp 85 UnderslandtnQ Guet 90 HelptnQ a FFtenCJ 160 early s•ons or an Alcohol Problern 161 Responstble Oectstons About Ot1Nung 402 Self·ASSerllVel\f'SS 431 Whal ts [)epress•on 432 How ro Oeaf wtftt Oeprnston 433 DepressiOn as •L•Ie Style 478 Becomtng Independent lrQm Parent.:. 479 Oealtng w•lh Aleohottc Parents 491 Sutctdal Cusis •g2 Ft«ognwrJg Su1ctdal Pofentral tnOthetS •93 Helptng Som~!~ a Sutctdal Cnata  
Counullneia • completely •nonymous unt.ce ollered by the Coun..llng I Paychologlcel Service• Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239·7337 between 9·5 ··CLIP AND SAVE··  


WHOEVER THOUGHT WRITING COJLD BE SO FINE? 
i 
ing, now you can choose be­tween two Precise Rolling Ball pens that write so fine yet flow so smoothly you'll wonder how we made it possible. 
Only The Precise allows .,,,, you to write beautifully in either ""··· fine point or extra fine point. The price is even finer. Only $1.19. \, 
PILOT.PRECISE ROLLING BALL PENS. 
2OF THE FINER THINGS IN LIFE. 

[PILOTJ.~~ise 
Monday, February 27, 1984-page 3
The Observer 


Marine base labeled vulnerable to terrorists 
Associated Press 
WILMINGTON, N.C. -Camp Lejeune, the North Carolina home base of the U.S. Marine contingent offthe coast of Lebanon, is virt ually unprotected against the kind of ter­rorist attack that killed 241 troops in Beirut, a newspaper report says. 
The Wilmington Morning Star said its reporters entered the base without passes through gates routinely open to traffic. The repor­ters, driving two vans laden with empty boxes to simulate explosives, were unchallenged entering the base or while on it, the newspaper said. 
To show how easily the base can be infiltrated by outsiders, the reporters taped letters to the un­derside of the toilet tank top in a bathroom in the home of a senior 2nd Division officer and atop a lock­er in the women's toilet on the second floor of 2nd Division head­Siuarters. .· Maj. Gen. Alfred M. Gray Jr., com­tnander of the 2nd Division from which the Marine peacekeeping force was chosen, said the Marines were aware of the newspaper's in­
vestigation but decided to let it proceed as a counterterrorism ex­ercise. 
"We were aware of the plan from the early stages," he said, adding that the information came from military intelligence as well as FBI, state and local law enforcement officials. Gray said there are security measures on the base which are not apparent and that the Marines did not want to in­vest the time, money and manpower to counter something that was not an actual threat tci the base. 
However, the newspaper quoted 
a source with the FBI in Wilmington 
as saying the bureau had no 
knowledge ofany such probe. 
The empty boxes in each of the vans could have held enough dynamite to seriously damage a building if the vans penetrated the interior, an explosives expert with the Wilmington Police Department said. 
At no time did the investigative team encounter concrete-filled bar­rels, concrete barriers, bomb­sniffing dogs or other security measures like those put into place at key Washington buildings. 


is taking applications for the positions of 
News Editor Viewpoint Editor Photo Editor Features Editor Saint Mary's Editor Sports Editor 
Controller Circulation Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager 

Submit resume to Bob Vonderheide 3rd Floor Lafortune DEADLINE: Feb. 29, 5 p.m. 
Trouble ReadingYour StudentSavingsCard? 
:.;.::.""~=-­
:=:::.::..=--­
....-...-.... 
:-.:.·~.::.-:-...-::•.." 
;;:~...::;.'.. 
:=:·.~"';;·:;. ~'!!:,.";.":;.. ........ .... 
_..._..._.... 
=.::-:::.. ~'='•<>­
...-·...... ••c-· 
~..~·~!'--···­
:.:.:.:-=.:.­
,_.___.... 
:;;:.:.:::..­
-~· ...·­

:;.:.--..~­
Call today for a complete examination and 20% OFF any pair of glasses with your student savings card. 
• Large selection of fashion frames 

I 
N

• 
All types of contact lenses 

• 
Prescriptions filled 

• 
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 

• 
Dr. Patrick Albert 



ProfessionalViSIOn 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 

DevelopmentDirector ofNational Housing Services front of a wall mural in the renovated northwest Margarita Howard (left) and student volunteers neighborhood of South Bend. The group toured the (from left to right) PattiRiley, Hesther Herring, Robbie dilapidated southeast area yesterday. For detailed in­Freebairn, Debbie ZollnerandSusan Gordon stand in formation on the NHS' work in South Bend, see below. 


Students among volunteers aiding neighborhood revitalization work 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTTI 
News Staff 
Revitalizing neighborhoods is what National Housing Services is all about, and its people are hard at work in South Bend -especially in the northeast section oftown. 
Coping with such problems as transient student residence, lower income occupants, apathetic and negligent landlords, high interest rates on home loans, government destruction of salvable houses and expansion of local institutions ­namely the St. joseph Hospital-the NHS of South Bend embarks on its sixth year ofcommunity service. 
"We are fighting an uphill battle," temporary Development Coor­dinator Margarita Howard says. Be­tween the politics and the apathy, Howard feels she is fighting a multi­fronted war. 
One problem is the lack ofmoney 
to work with. NHS is locally funded 
and operated, and the dollar is not 
always easy to find. In order to 
achieve reform in "target areas" 
(specific, bounded residential sites), 
the organization must depend on 
businesses, financial institutions and 
individuals for contributions. In 
most cases, residences of such areas 
cannot change their environment 
without help. 
Help comes in many different 

packages. One of the foremost 
means of resident assistance is low-
ATTENTION SENIORS: The COUNTDOWN PARTY is tonight 
9:30-? Senior Bar 
(private party) 84 DAYS 'TIL GRADUATION 
interest, long-term loans which provide the means for structural. cosmetic and operational renova­tion in dilapidated houses. But even when banks arc willing to loan capi­tal at a three or four percent annual rate, problems don't automatically vanish. Many people cannot afford the payments. 
The NHS counters this by offering loans to residents who cannot meet the normal commercial rates. These loans, called "revolving loans," design their repayment terms to fit the ability of the borrower to pay. Theoretically, there is no reason why any home within a target area could not be brought up to code. 
These loans also encourage some­thing which is considered essential to the revitalization ofcommunities -,.home ownership. 
Much of the present housing is rental, and the majority of landlords are not concerned with upkeep of the property, Howard says. She sees these "absentee landlords" as major contributors to the run-down state ofmany residential areas. 
Home ownership, as opposed to 
rental, is much more conducive to 
the pride of a neighborhood, says 
Hesther Herring, a student leader of 
NHS involvement. The NHS en­
deavors to spark local initiative for 
action, and cannot succeed without 
community support. Thus, neigh­
borhood pride is a needed motivat­
ing force. 
STUDENT HEALTH CENTER 
Outpatient Hrs.: 7a.m.-11p.m. Physician Hrs.: 9a.m.-noon, 1:30-6p.m. Pharmacy Hrs.: 9a.m.-5p.m. M-F Lab Hrs.: 8-4 M-F 
Orthopedic & Gynecological Services byappointmen 
Fees: There is nofee to see the University physicians or nurses. Overnight stays arefree for on-campus students, $10 per night/or 0-C students. 
Permanent figures in the community are more willing to put in time and effort than someone who is temporary or "just passing through," adds Howard. This is why Howard sees student off-campus residence as a real obstacle to her ef­forts. 
"Most of the neighborhood has a 
problem with students," she said. 
"They don't feel responsibility to the 
community." Another problem 
confronting the northeast area in 
particular is the expansion of St. Joseph's Hospital. Need for new building space and parking facilities is forcing many people out of their homes. The NHS is presently working on the relocation of these persons, but complications are an­ticipated and feared. 
"It's going to have a horrible ef. 
feet," Howard predicts. Work for 
relocation has already begun, but 
Howard notes, "Cost might be 
prohibitive." 
Despite the problems the hospital 
is causing now, Howard anticipates 
that it will eventually be a supporter 
ofthe revitalization campaign. 
The NHS is a local, autonomous 
suborganizati<in of the Neighbor­
hood Reinvestment Program, a 
public, non-profit corporation based 
in Washington, D.C. It is one of 172 
such suborganizations across the 
country. 
Any questions concerning the 
campaign for the revitalization oflo­
cal communities and opportunities 
for students to help can be 
addressed to Herring. 


Shange 
continuedfrom page I 
Since its publication, it has also been 
adapted for Broadway. 
After reading portions of her 
works for over an hour, Shange 
opened herself up to questions and 
discussion from her audience. The 
ensuing period brought out many of 
her feelings as a literary figure and 
writer. 
Commenting on the status of black women in the United States, a theme of many of her poetic works, the writer said the status of black women is currently in a "precarious state" and getting worse. In the last decade, she said, an optimistic view ·Of improving the black women's 
status has diminished considerably. 



The Observer Monday, February 27, 1984 -page 4 
LeMans gets Mass 
By LAUREEN WOLFE 
News Staff 
The first of many Sunday evening Masses in the LeMans Hall chapel will he celebrated Mar. I 1 as the rc:sult of a petition signed hy ap­proximatdy 400 LeMans residents requesting a Mass there. 
"I think we should have a Mass here hccausc it is a beautiful chapel," said junior Anne Gallagher, a I..cMans resident. "For a dorm with sud1 a large population, LeMans should have its own Mass." 
Senior Bridgett Dolan, a LcMans 
R.A.. also saw the chapel as an ap­propriate setting for a Sunday Mass. "Fir~t of all, it's a beautiful chapel and very traditional. Secondly. it's ridiculous to not have a Mass in Ll·Mans when there arc SOO students in the hall. The 7 p.m. Mass at Holy Cross is crowded and we need an­other Mass." 
Convenience is another aspect Ll·Mans residents were looking for. "It will he easier since I live in thl· dorm," said freshman Suzanne Ham­mer. "I found walking all the way over to Regina Hall to be a hassle." 
According to Father Thomas Reed, Campus Ministry received the students' petition Feb. 6. Campus Ministry then discussed with stu­dent government and Regina Hall staff the possibility of moving the 10 
p.m. Regina Mass to LeMans Hall. The musicians and ministers of the Mass agreed and arc now discussing alternations of the chapel. 
More space has to be made for musicians and seating has to be rear· ranged for a community-type set­ting. Campus Ministry wants to have the chapel set appropriately for a Vatican II liturgy. Father Reed would like to have the congregation seated in such a way that everyone can see 
one another rather than staring at each others' backs. He would also like to have the seats closer to the altar. 
Saint Mary's students can now at­tend Sunday Masses in LeMans Hall chapel by the first Sunday of Lent. 


Mroz 
continuedfrom page I 
important issues. 
Mroz lost the run-off dcl"tion to Phil McKenna after having won the prdiminary de<:tion by 10 vott·s. 
After losing the dn:tion, Mroz worknl for his opponent ami helped t'Stablish tht· liaison oft1ce between Notre Darnl· and Saint Mary's. lie was also involved in tht· 196H Mock Conn·ntion. 
To two of Mroz's acquaintances, his participation in the Middle East negotiations comes as no surprise. 
Lynn Leone. a student at the Notre Dame Law School, remembers Mroz at importance because he is willing volved in many community civic as an outstanding student and inspir­to work hard and volunteer time. and education organizations. ing person as well as an "affable According to Olechna, Mroz has the He has been a member of the In­
***************** 
guy." Mroz, who Leone says was the ability to "infuse himself into situa­ternational Civil Aviation Organiza­
: Buy· ~ 
kind of person who wins "Mr. Con­tions and meet a lot ofpeople." tion, a panel of the United Nations, geniality" contests, was extremely After graduating Mroz went back and has been an active member of well-known and well-liked. to his home state ofMassachusetts to the Notre Dame Club ofBoston. 
• 

Observer

She credits him for her involve­get a Masters degree at Northeastt·rn He is currently president ofthe In­
* 
ment in student politics, which University. While there he taught stitute for East-West Security • I started her interest in campus and political science and, says Leone, he Studies, an organization which he * classifieds national politics that still lasts today. had the same inspiring effect on his co-founded. The institute docs 
According to Leone, Mroz had the students there as he had on his class­policy-oriented research on same effect on many other students. mates while at Notre Dame. military, economic, and political 
Dennis Olechna, who is working Mroz went on to receive a Ph.D. aspects ofsecurity. on a doctoral dissertation at Notre from the Fletcher School of Law and According to Olechna, Mroz is Dame, has known Mroz for 20 years. Dipomacy. still active in government and was lie describes Mroz as a "very in­Since then, Mroz has participated recently involved in doing back­volved individual," and says Mroz in scores of conferences and policy ground research for the Conference has reached this level ofinternation-planning groups, and has been in-for European Security. 
) 
l





··we're 

plu edinto 
aNo Dame 

outlet 

Take a byte 
In order to be more accessible to the Notre Dame community General Micro is channeling 
out of the cost 

of buying 
its energies to a new campus location in Lafortune Hall. The new store will connect you with Apple computers

a computer. 
and a complete assortment of software and peripheral · products fo'r the Apple that will help you with your studies. manage your budget and make all your work more 
The new General Micro Computer store on campus 


productive.
will provide a great opportunity to take advantage of state-of-the-art technology at special prices. 
General Micro is proud to be a part of the Notre Dame 

The Notre Dame Credit Union is offering special 
campus and invites students. faculty and staff to come in
rates. too. in conjunction with this exciting new concept. Members may take out a loan to purchase a 
to the new outlet. you'll be shocked! 
computer at a low 14% APR. It's just one of the advantages of belonging to this up-to-date financial 
cooperative. If you·re not yet a member. stop in today and find out how easy It is to join. 
14°/o COMPUTER LOAN Finance under SZOOO for up to 2 years Finance over 52000 for up to 3 years 
~NOTRE DAME 


~CREDIT UNION 
Lower Level • Lafortune &tudent Center • Notre Dame Campus Main Office ~·-·--··•m~ ITorrington Branch 19033 Douglas Road 8 ~ 3509 W. Sample Street 219/239-6611 ·------·-219/289·2827 

/ 
.-" 

view~_,_:_J_"_i_·_n__t_________._-_-------_~__....._M_o_n-_:_a~-~·-~e-b-r-uary_._2_7_,1_9_8_4--p-ag_e_S 




Notre Dame election system needs change 
Two weeks ago, Notre Dame students went through the process of electing a student body president. Usually the elections generate little excitement among students, who soon after election day forget ali about it. This year's election had a new twist: a write-in 
Brian McKeon 
Guest columnist 

ticket that filled the last days of the campaign w!th controversy. 
Two students, billing themselves as The Alternative, entered the race at the final hour. Claiming they had missed the mandatory can­didates' meeting, they decided to attempt a write-in campaign. Simple, right? Just go out and encourage students to ignore the names on the ballot, and write in theirs instead. 
However, Chapin Engler and John Dardis, "The Alternative" candidates, discovered that they faced a roadblock. Because ofa clause in the election rules, only candidacies which have been d~clared by a certain date are allowed on the ballot, and then counted by election officials. Otherwise, write-in hope­fuls must plead their case before the Student Senate and hope for approval from that body. Fortunately for Engler and Dardis, they received the senate's okay. 
Even with senate approval, there remained a small problem. Any student wanting to cast a vote for Engler and Dardis had to write "The Alternative" on their ballots; nothing else would be counted in the final tal~y. A number of ballots written for ''Chapin and John" were thrown out. This seems rather questionable. Who did the election officials think the votes were for? 
In regular elections in this country, voters have the option to ignore the names on the ballot and write in the candidate of their choice. In some states, this can be a difficult process. Nevertheless, the choice remains in the hands ofthe voter. Any ballot marked with a person's name will be registered in the final tabulations. 
Not so at Notre Dame. Ifl were to walk into my dorm and write-in a vote for myself, my ballot would be disqualified. Why? My name, clearly written on the ballot, would leave little doubt as to my preference. Unfortunately, without official sanction of my candidacy, I would be out ofluck. 
The rules in place prohibiting write-in can­didates serve their purpose. This provision seeks to give structure and order to the cam­paign. Obviously, election officials don't want a write-in campaign spending more money or time allowed the other candidates. Fair enough. But if all candidates play by the rules, what difference does it make ifthey made it to some boring meeting? 
Historically, write-in candidates have little chance of victory. Their main effect is to sip­hon off votes from the other candidates. The great appeal of a write-in vote lies in the tact that the voter may register a protest; if the voter dislikes the choices on the ballot, he or she may write in any desired name. 
This process is all part ofthe crazy game we in democratic societies call elections. As the rules stand now, Notre Dame's system seems undemocratic. A student's vote will be dis­regarded if it does not select one of the "official" candidates. Thus, the voter's choice becomes extremely limited. We are told that we may only vote for a, b or c. Period. 
Notre Dame already has enough rules con­stricting our freedom. Let's at least change one rule over which the students still retain some control. 


P.O. BoxQ 
Right stuff? 

DearEditor: 
The other day it was quite amusing to read a flier promulgated to say the "ND Con­servatives for the Right Stuff." The flier, which represents 100 percent rhetoric and 0 per­cent substance, deary intended to encourage conservative students to sign up for the Mock Convention, as Glenn delegates, by equating their candidate with Ronald Reagan. 
The assertion that John Glenn is the con­servative Democratic choice, in step with 
onald Reagan, is mistaken. None of the 
emocratic candidates are their party's ver­sion of Reagan, including Glenn who has blasted the Reagan administration throughout his campaign. 
We believe the Democratic candidate who would most appeal to moderate­conservatives at Notre Dame is Reubin Askew. Askew stands apart from Glenn and other moderate to liberal Democrats on such key issues as the economy, foreign trade, abortion and defense spending. 
We woukllike to encourage all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to take part in the upcoming Mock Convention, and we would hope that they, when choosing a candidate to support, would focus less on rhetoric and various polls and more on the man, his record ofpublic service and his stands on the issues. 
PaulRagan, DaveMcAvoy Gerry Wilson, Bob Gleason 

Dented car 
DearEditor: 

On Monday, Feb. 20, I went into the D-2 parking lot on the northeast part ofcampus to get my car for an errand run. When I finally found it, I was taken aback by the dents I saw on the hood. Surely I had to be dreaming, but no, I also found footprints which undoubtedly caused the damages. 
Instantly I felt anger. But within a few hours, I felt disappointment -not only because I will have to pay for the damages, but also be­cause such d~ruction probably was the result of tomfoolery on the part of a fellow Notre Dame student. 
Done in drunken stupor? Perhaps. Done as part of a childish game? Maybe. But done, nevertheless, with no conceivable reason at all. 
As a student at this great Catholic university and a member of a quite civilized society, I 
think if our moral standards do not dictate to 
us that jumping on another's car is an infringe­
ment on and abuse of rights, then common sense should tell us that such action is bound to do damage. No one enjoys finding new dents, bumps and bruises whenever he or she goes into the parking lot. I know I don't. For my blue Honda Accord sedan, this was the second time in less than four months. 
I make this humble, though probably far­fetched, request: If you have any sense of morals and were involved in this little inci­dent, I ask that you please help me pay for the damages. Otherwise, I ask that you please refrain from such nonsensical activity in the future. 
jim Flores 


Alcohol abuse 
DearEditor: 
There seems to be very little discussion about what the alcohol problem really is. Cer­tainly everyone admits there is a problem, but what is it? 
The problem, in my opinion, is this com­munity's reliance upon alcohol as a social lubricant; a social crutch if you will. The' feeling among the students is that alcohol is 
somehow necessary to life at Notre Dame. 
The reaction of the administration to the "Problem" and the reaction of the students is precisely that ... reactionary. We seek to reg­ulate a symptom, rather than attacking the root cause itself. 
As a former graduate ofthe University, I was surprised at the drinking on campus when I returned last year. Not that it o-ccurred at all, but the fervor and wild abandon with which the students attacked their alcoholic rations. 
The common attitude was that of a Haw­keye Pierce: "to drink to escape the horrors of war." Anyone who thinks that Hawkeye didn't have a problem is sadly mistaken. 
I think it is time to address the questions of social life on campus, the dearth of cultural events both at the University and in South Bend and the ways in which the students employ keggers and cocktail parties to fill the 
gap. 
Such an investigation might provide useful 
information on how we can reduce the impor­
tance of alcohol at Notre Dame without 
resorting to the "overt regulation" students 
fear. 
PaulMatwiy 

ampus comments: Who is your favorite professor? 
Emil Hofman. He really helps the  Prof Steven Hurtt. He was my first  Amalia de Ia Torre. She has a cute  Professor  Harrington  (Economics  
ltresl1m,en get involved in the whole  architecture prof, and the one who  way of teaching class because she  1 I 5) is my fuvorite. He presents the  
ND  life,  as  well  as  teaching  made  me  realize that architecture  gets confused with English the same  required material clearly, and even  
chemistry.  was what I wanted to major in.  way we get confused with Spanish.  ·injects some humor into the course.  
Chris Lyon  MikeCasolo  Maureen Erny  Catherine Ramsden  
Chemistry  Architecture  Business Admin.  Freshmen Year  
Classof'87  Classof'87  Classof'87  Classof'87  

Photos by Thorn Bradley 
Edward Cronin. He takes personal interest in his students 
and tear:hesl wisdom, not only the offacts. 
Ray Makiejus 
Pre-med Classof'86 

Editorial Board  Depat1ment Managers  
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic  
P. 0. BoxQ, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor .........•.............Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­ ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn  Clmtrol/er...............................................Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide  AdvertisingManager ............ ............jeanie Poole  
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­ NewsEditor....................................MarkWorseheh  Circulation Manager.............  ........ Mark Miotto  
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa  SaintMary'sEditor ..................Anne Mon~styrski  .\)•stems Manager....  .........Ke\'in \X' illiam~  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters.ens\:.t~,lnsi9,c.S:olumn present  SportsEditor .................................Michael Sullivan  
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  ViewpointEditor ..: ............................. Keith Picher Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton  Founded November 3, 1966  
Photo Editor.....­...................................Scott Bower  

ShowcaSe Monday, February 27, 1984 -page 6 

It's spring -and it' 




'From dreams to re 

baseball tinte agai 
fin, president of the Black Cultural Arts Council ( BCAC ), explained that

by Rebecca Hetland
by Chris Fraser 
the BCAC and the Black Cultural 

H
features staffwriter Arts Festival committee were for­~ merly one in the same, but because ot~:. they say, springs t·ternal. 
features columnist 

T
he Black Cultural Arts Festival ing with national Black History ofrhe growing popularity of the fes­Truer words were nevtT spoken for the loyal hasehall fan 
has traditionally been a way for Month, and has been a opportunity tival, it was decided that the two who t•mt·rgt·s from hibernation each year about this time armed 
the Notre Dame black community, for many students to display excep­should be made separate organiza­old predictions about tht· new season. Surely, the fan argues, their 
though small in numbers, to let the tional talent. tions, with the BCA Festival being will he joy in Mudville this year. 
campus know it is alive and thriving. During the month of February, run by its own chairman. This year, Thest· hast· hall fans -and I proudly include myself in this 
This year's festival, with its theme, Notre Dame's black community, Ruby Anderson, a Notre Dame <:<Itt·gory -are something ofa different breed. Yes, we watch foot­
"From Dreams to Reality: Directions made up of 145 graduate and under­senior, has assumed the position. hall and probably basketball and maybe even howling or golfonce 
for Black America," is no exception. graduate students, has participated "This is a very important year for a whilt·. hut our ht·arts are tied to the grand old game. We do not 
It is a celebration ofthe contribution in and enjoyed the many events blacks since 1984 marks the 30th an­aholll IISFI. scort·s hut wt· desperately want the etrly reports from 
ofblacks past and present, coincid-which have been staged. Piper Grif-niversary of the famous Brown vs. spring training. 
Board of Education case, as well as To the non-baseball tan, it is often hard to understand why this 
20th anniversary of the Civil Rights game, thi:-. game whert· the majority of the players spend most of 
Act of 1964," said Anderson. thdr timt· dthn lounging on tht· bench orsunning themselves in 
Consequently, the main focus of fldd, attracts so much attention. The game. such people claim, is 
this year's festival is on the black ( slow. The players. they say. are lazy. 
political sphere. A special guest · Ah, hut rather than lament it, we baseball fans relish the 
speaker, Mary Francis Berry, matle•a pact· our game providt·s. Wt·t·njoy tht· stratq,'y. the cleverness. the 
great impact on her audience as sti· dl<llltT to grab a hot dog and a ht'tT ht·twt-en innings. We sec the art 
spoke about the rights of today's in 1-0 game:-. and wt· love such things as pint·-tar controversies that 
blacks and the changes that have drag on li>r months -especially when either one goes against the 
taken place. Berry, a civil rights com­hated Yankees. 
missioner who gained national at­llard-nosnl football t;ms scream for broken hones and flashy pas­
tention when she filt-d suit against sers. But hast· hall fans are content with a morning sports page filled 
President Reagan after he fired her with last night's boxst·ort·s. And we eagnly look forward to the Sun­
from her Carter-appointed office, day paper which provides the op~>rtunity to examine the hatting 
won her suit, and in doing so, es­avnagt· ofeach and every major league playa. What more could 
tablished the independence of the anyone ask for? 
commission from presidential juris­Some peoplt-han· said that baseball fans art· obsessed with statis­
diction. tics. This is true. But as any political ohserVl'r can assure you, statis­
Among other events being staged tics arc handy toob that can ht· twisted to tell you just what you want 
throughout the month, the most to hear. Such a trick is quite useful for the tan who wants to believe, 
recent took place last Saturday: the say, that tht· Cub:-. will win the pennant. 
annual talent show, which was held Ofcourse, baseball fans are characterized by such unnatural op­
in the Library Auditorium. Senior timism. Pahap:-. it is for thi:-. reason that spring training is such an 
Hester Herring served as chairman exciting timt· ofyear for tht·lovcr ofthe national pastime. Indeed, 
for the event which was attended by Ix·fort· t:ach season, we are n·rtain our team is headed for the World 
approximately 200 people. Series and hdi>rt· each gamt.' we arc convinn·d our team will win. 
The talent show, always a high­Alas, tht· cxpt·rit-nn·d tan knows that thl'ir loyalty often leads to 
light ofthe festival, featured a variety frustration. It seems that disappointment is inevitable in this s~>rt 
ofacts ranging from solos and duets bt.•cotust· baseball fans, unlike the fans ofsome s~>rts,link themselves 
to calypso dancing and a spoofon , inexorably to tht· fatt· ofont· ami only one team. Thus, while fans of 
Boy George and the Boys. golfor tennis enjoy marveling at how the skills and talents ofprofes­
The atmosphere was informal a1'd sionals compare with thl'ir own meager weekend efforts, we 
amicable, with emcee David MeG f­hast.·hall fans live or die based on the fortunes ofour team. 
fey keeping the audience grinnin This, I know. is not always easy. 
between acts. Phyllis Washingtonp As a litdong fan oftht· New York Mets, I have lx:cn forced-to 
Calypso dancing seemed to convely ddt·nd tht· ft:t:hlt-pt·rformance of my team on more than one occa­
the overall feeling of the show with sion. I must confess that tht·re have been a few times when I've 
its radiant ease and happiness. Dan­vowed to divert my loyalty or even to give up the sport entirely, hut 
ny Harrison's skit, "Here's Black it just dot·sn't work. Once you have a team, you're stuck with it. I 
Childhood," which brought much suppose I'm lucky I'm not a Cubs fan. 
laughter from the seats, ended with I can remember way ha<:k in 1969 when it was my team that was 
T
he next time you find yourself civil rights leaders such as Malcolm 
the statement '.'Being black is an ex­walking through the revolving X, Angela Davis, and the unforget­
on top. Though a mere second-grader, I raced home from school to 
perience, so thank God I'm black. catch the last ft-w innings oftht· W'orld St.·ries games between my 
doors of the Memorial Library, it table Martin Luther KingJr. lead a 
Thank you Momma." hclovnl Mt·ts and the<)rioks from Baltimore. If only I'd known how 
might he worth your while to freedom movement which would 
On the lighter side, those who at­good I had it. I didn't even have any champagne to toast thdr 
retrace your steps into the main cor­drastically improve the black man's 
tended got the chance to see Mar­amazing victory. But, like a true fan,l can still name the starting line­
ridor. At the end ofthat hall, directly position in America. No longer did 
garet "She's on Target" LaChapelle up. 
across from the library auditorium blacks have to sit in the back of 
don her safari duds in the 1984 I was a littlt-older when my Mets returned to the Series in '7_>,. But 
are three, easily missed windows buses, drink from separate water this time they ti:ll to Reggit· Jackson ami the Oakland As. Sure, that 
which encompass 200 years ofpain, fountains, or live in certain neigh­hurt but it was ht·tter than the next I 0 years which were marked hy 
struggle and victory. The black his­borhoods because of their race. fiVl' managt-rs. disasterous trades. and more last-place finishes than I 
tory display covers everything from The 1970s and 1980s, the sub­care to remember. 
the pre-Civil War abolitionist move­jects of the third and final window, 
ment to today's civil rights move­characterized the continued strikt· outs, tht· stolt-n hast·s and tht· rdidpitchers.llovt· to hate the 
Still, I can't hdp hut Ion· tht· game. I love tht· home runs and the 
ment. divided into three distinct progression of blacks in politics, Yankt-es and l't·te RoSt.'. I love tht· Cracker.Jat·ks and the funny uni­
periods. business, religion and sports. The timns. lion· tht· ht-ckling crowds and tht· managers who kick dirt on 
The first window presents the emergence of Negro mayors, busi­umpire;. 
major Negro history makers of the ness executives, congressmen and <>h yt·s, and Iespecially low it all this }Tar ht-causc I just know the 
pre-and post-civil war era. Included even a black presidential candidate Mt·ts art· going all the way. 
in this section ofthe display are such serve as proofthat the civil rights 
great black civil rights leaders as movement is still very much alive. 
Frederick Douglass, Booker T. The display, in conjunction with 


•
The Features Dept. of •
• 

The Observer is looking •
• 

for writers interested in •
• 

art, theatre or movies. See the Features Editor •
• 

for more info. and see • your name up in lights­
•
•

weli, in print anyway. • 
Washington, and W.E.B. Dubois. all of whom were instrumental in the evolution ofhlack America. Also in­dulled in this section of the display 
are the anti-slavery poets who 
devoted their lives to writing about 
the harsh and unfair treatment of 
negros. Growing frustration and ten­sion between blacks and whites erupted in the race riots ofthe early 
1900s. Lynchings and vivid dis­crimination were also characteristic of this period. 
The second window ofthe display progresses into the early 1950s and 1960s, perhaps the most instrumen­tal period in the history of the black movement. During this period, black civil rights programs gained fD' ,-,. prestige and notoriety than in the previous 50 years. Courageous black history month, offers an 
educatonal view of the evaluation of 
the black man in Amerca. President 
of the Black Cultural Arts Council, 
Piper Griffin initiated the idea for 
such a display. Jethro Kites, curator 
ofinternational sports and games and David Sparks, chairman of the exhibits committee organized and set up the exhibit. Most of the materials used in the display are from the black history secton in the 
library. Fred Wright, assistant professor ofGovernment and head of the Black Studies program. also contributed many hooks and a great 
deal ofinsight in the display. 
Lester Flemons is a sophomore from Blue Island, Ill. Lester is majoring in English. 
Monday, February 27, 1984 -page 7 

Showcase 
1•ty.' a celebration of progress 

Mock Fashion show. Piper "Moo­
Moo" li. 'lfil) sauntered on stage decked in n:d slippers, robe, turban and gloves to the delight ofMoo­
Moo lovers, andJoel "Jackson" Autry slithered on in his mysterious trenchcoat, MichaelJackson style, only to reveal a rather interesting bikini top and slinky bathing suit beneath it. Hopefully, the real fas­hion show to be held this Saturday will show more ofthis type of 
attire ... 
Eleanor Walker and Edward Junkins demonstrated their talents in a duet, and many others joined in the show, which, judging from the overall crowd response, was a great success. James Patterson finished it offwith excerpts from the Martin Luther King speech, "The Drum Major Instinct." The poignant message wrapped up the event nice­ly and left the audience with some points to ponder. 
Included among the speakers for the festival was the husband and wife team ofRuby Dee and Ossie Davis. Dee, an actress for many years, whose credits include major roles in "Gone are The Days," "A Raisin in the Sun," various other television roles, and many more contributions to the Arts, read poetry along with her husband who is also known throughout the film and poetry world.]ames Patterson, an active participant in the festival, praised the two for their "incredible creativity and uniqueness of presentation." 

On February IIth, a play by Notre Dame senior Sandra Hodge, "Living Memories," was presented. The play dealt basically with a young black student(played by Hodge) who was three days away from graduation at a predominantly white university: Each ofthe four scenes consisted of a flashback representing different segments of the student's life. Al­though there was a distinct message concerning the difficult challenges ofbeing black in a predominantly white school, the message, Hodge explained, goes far deeper. 
"The first scene, where a little boy expresses his griefover having no father, and the last scene in which the Baptist minister stresses the responsibility ofsharing your success, are virtually colorless ­they carry universal messages for all races. The other two scenes, one in which a black high school athlete faces the prejudice ofhis teacher, and the other in which the main character, as a freshman in the col­lege from which she eventually graduates, begins to doubt her belonging in a primarily white school, still have their universality, though they·confront the race issue head-on as well," said Hodge. 
Indeed, the theme ofHodge's play which stresses the sharing ofone's success, is what the Black Cultural Arts Festival is all about. It is a celebration ofsuccess in the black community, and the expression of the desire to share that success with others. 
Hodge's play recieved great praise from those who witnessed its debut, and may be presented again for the South Bend area. 
The final event ofthe celebration 
is the annual BCA Festival Fashion 
Show, "Silhouettes," which will be held Saturday, March 3rd, at the Monogram room. Tickets can be bought in the BCAC office for $5, or at the door for S6. Chairmen for the show are Regina Howell and Eleanor Walker. 

Anderson summed up the overall impact ofthe month-long festival when she said, "It is very unifying and it reaches past the Notre Dame community. It has so many differ~nt things to offer in education and en­tertainment and it gives the chance for students to share their talents and feelings. Since it is a celebration ofthe contribution ofblacks to our past and present, it promotes a heightened awareness ofblack culture. Too often, this awareness is not as keen as it should be." 

A r-eader's guide to off-campus living 
j by Chip Block 
features !:olumnist 
~here ~as been a lot oftalk about a 
·· ,{. masstve exodus from the dorms iLIA ·~hoi"' banned un campus. Bdng ~!'I off=campus studem, I . 
thought ~::::t ~a;..~••~..fOY hi:.t3 to help pr · · cttv ctty dwellers get sta«ec9-.''Living off-campus can turn ou;r-> be expensive and bothersomt i.(a •few precautions arc not taken. ...First an apartment or house rnust 
1
he cho~en. Ifapartme.nt life suitf ynu, then picking the proper Ioca­ti.m should rank first on your list. Al­'ways try.to rent a second floor apartment above a Southern Califor-. nia beach bunny. This is not for so­da! reasons, though that doesn't hurt, but for economic reasons. The beach bunny will try to keep her apartment at a balmy eighty degrees and the rising heat will warm you all winter. As her monthly heating bills closely resemble the national debt, you sit cozy in your apartment and pay only for the lights and your electric typewriter. 
Similarly, check out your neigh­bors before'renting the apartment. So not be influenced by romantic en­deavors. The most important criteria when ranking the girls next door is how many meals a week they will make for you. When living off­
campus, you must perform two of cl;r most painful chores known to man: ('ating what you cook and cleaning the pans you have burned. When the neighbors provide dinner you not only get a good meal, bm you also don't have to clean up after­ward. Be polite, always bring along a small carton of milk to show the neighbors that you appreciate their generous gift. 
After moving into your new apart­ment, you will find it necessary to buy a few essentials. Learn how to create multiple uses for each household object, this saves money. For example, a smoke detector can double as a fire warning system and a timer for the oven. When the smoke detector goes off, dinner is cooked. Ifyou like your food rare, move the detector closer to the kitchen. The telephone works well to organize a messy apartment. The more impor­tant an object, the closer it should be placed to the phone. When the ob­ject is needed you can follow the cord through the dirty clothes stacked on the floor, past the pile of old newspapers, over the couch, around an uneaten sandwich and finally to the phone and the impor­tant objects. 
Mail can help make your new apartment or house feel like home. If you don't have a lot offriends, then just tell the Navy that you will graduate in May and your mailbox will be full everyday for the next six months. Another trick for drawing mail is to never pay bills on the first notice. I can guarantee that the telephone company will write again. 
These are just a few hints you 
should consider before moving off­
campus. Remember, without 
money-saving tips like the ones I 
mentioned above, you won't have 
enough money to buy beer. And that 
is why you moved off-campus in the 
first place. 
Award of the week: This week's award goes to the maintenance department for ktting the pothole at the entrance to the G I parking lot grow to such hugh proportions. The pothole has become a blessing in disguise. Tourists have started arriv­ing to see the giant crater and there have even been rumors that the uni­versity will soon offer burro rides to the bottom. 


Sports Briefs 

Cheerleaders wishing to try out for the I984-85 squad must attend a meeting today at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The captain of next year's team will be Bill Thallemer. Call him at 233-433I for more details. -The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for tomorrow Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to Den· nis Stark today or the interhall office, C2, ACC. For more informa· tion on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. 
-The Observer 

Saint Marv's College basketball team ended its season with ~ 1~-~~ ~2-55, to Purdue University-Calumet. See Dave Wilson's story tomorrow fur more details. -TheObserver 
An NVA track meethas been scheduled for Thursday, March I. Field events will begin at 6:30 p.m. and track events will start at 7:45.-The Observer 
Upcoming deadlines for NVA sports are in 
interhall baseball, interhall I2" softball (men's and women's), grad 
softball, and women's interhall soccer. The deadline to sign up for all ofthese events is March 9.-The Observer 
A Broomball Brawl place on March I 0 from 3:45-5:45. There will be open skating and a broomball tournament. Skates may be rented for one dollar and there will also be a snack stand. Turn in broomball rosters to t the NVA office by March 7. -The Observer 
The ND Boxing Club would like to remind all boxers that the team picture will be taken today at 4:30 p.m. in the boxing room. Physicals will be given tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the ACC Varsity Training Room. These are mandatory. Weigh-ins will take place Thursday afternoon from 4 to 5:30. Any questions, call Tom Lezynski (xl728), Angelo Perino (x334B)or Mike Latz(x8308).­
The Observer 

Start training for the Irish SpringRun, a six 
mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golfcourse. It is coming up after spring break. Trophies, T-shirts, and prizes will be awarded. 
-The Observer 

Women 
continuedfrom page 12 
the chance, then why not run? They gave us the opportunity, so we took advantage of it. The same is true for our outside shooting. If the defense is playing a zone, packing it inside, then our shooters will take the open shot from the outside." 
In the second half, Xavier's of· fense started to get things going, as head coach Laurie Massa's leading scorerJoe Ann Osterkamp netted 20 of her game high 26 points. But the Irish were up to the task. All fifteen 
Racquetball Pairings 
All matches must be played and reported to the 
NVA office by March 1. The NVA encourages all 
matches to be played and reported allhe earliest con­
vemence. 

MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES (ROUND THREE) 
Kimmei-Crouch (1694) v. Magri-Zimmer (1059) Brenton-Ciudz1nsk1 (3137) v. Hogan-Mornssey (1722) Sirnanm-Hardek (1371) v. Lane-Hickey (1023) H1gg1ns-Sutter (1873) v. Bathon-Hillerman (831 3) Thomason·Wick (1854) v. Schunk-Mart1n (6706) Aehder-Rogers (8022) v. Coyle·Gasla (6380) Dugan-Hudson (1620) v. Bornemann-Bognanano (1628) Shepard·Drabol (1601) v. Delahanty· Sayre (1 128) 
All matches must be played and reported to the NVA office by March 2. The NVA encorages all matches to be played and reported at the earliest con· venience. Those teams not indicated here have byes. 
MIXED RACQUETBALL DOUBLES (PRELIMINARY MATCHES) 
Aba Aalah-Hathoway (1480) v. OrtiZ· Prall (8219) 
Arm-Fullmer (7034) v. Stack-Oids (7160) 
Higgins-Higgins (1873) v. Gallagher·Oison (1147) 
Tutchton-Fischer (1026) v. Roveda-Erk1ns (1352) 
Monday, February 27, 1984 page8 
pi yers saw action for Notre Dame on the course of the night, and re ardless of which players coach M ry DiStanislao put on the court, X· vier could draw no closer than ei ht points the rest of the way. The M skateers received no help from th officials either, as they had three st rters foul out in the final eight m)1utes. 
'It felt good to really be in com­m nd of the game all the way th ough," said Schueth. "We really es ablished ourselves well tonight. Tt at's something we've got to do m re consistently. It would be great if iVe could come up with two solid b~ k-to-back games with a win on to Jay against Illinois-Chicago." 
t was appropriate that the Irish h~ d a solid victory _in the final home game for veterans Mullins and 
Klauke, both of whom have made 
important contributions during 
their careers. Mullins has co­
captained the squad for the last two seasons, while Klauke is the first woman to receive an athletic scholarship at Notre Dame. 
"It felt really good.to win, and to be able to step in and contribute to the victory," said Klauke, who netted six points in the con test. ''1'-n really thankful to have had the t•p· portunity to play for Notre uame. I'm going to miss playing, and I'm going to miss these people." 
Meanwhile the Irish, now 5-3 and tied for second place in the North Star Conference, must w'n their last four games in order to rinish above the .500 mark for the season. 
Tonight women face Illinois-Chicago 
CHICAGO, Ill. -The Notre Dame women's basketball team, • 
fresh off a victory over Xavier University on Saturday night, will~ 
swing right back into action tonight as they travel to Chicago to 
face the Lady Flames of the University of Illinois-Chicago. 
At I 1-13, the Irish need a win as they attempt to salvage what • 
has been a disappointing season. 
I 
The Flames, who are suffering through a 7·19 season this win­ter, are led by 6-0 sophomore forward-center Tracey Manuel, Illinois-Chicago's leading scorer at 18.5 points per game and its leading rebounder with an I I. 5 average. 
In addition, coach Barbara Leahy depends on junior forward Erin Maloney, who averages 9.3 points and 6. 5 rebounds p<·r con­test. Leahy also has received great play of late from freshman Linda Larson, who adds an additional 8. 5 points and 7.1 rebounds per game to the Illinois-Chicago attack. 
Leahy, in only her second season as head coach at Illinois· Chicago, is already familiar with Notre Dame. Last season, Mary DiStanislao's Irish handed the Flames an 88-61 defeat at the ACC as forward Trena Keys sparked Notre Dame with 18 points in ~ reserve role. Frontline starters Mary Beth Schueth and Ruth Kaiser added 13 points apiece in the Irish victory, while Manuel had I 7 points in a losing cause for the Flames. 
The Irish have never won at the UIC Pavilion, however, suffer­ing two defeats in the past four seasons. Notre Dame will attempt to end that streak, as well as climb within a game ofthe.500 mark, when they take to the court tonight. 
. 
The Obst.'rl•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafottunc Student Cen!er. accepts classified advertising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saini Mary's office. located on the third th+•r of llaggar College Center, accepts dassificds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifit·ds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or hy maiL Charge is I 0 cents per five cl-tarac· 

Classifieds 
tcrs per day. 

LOST:  N.D.  KEY  CHAIN  (4  KEYS)  Lost: Gold men·s N.D. class ring with blue  Ross1  skiS  Tyrolea bindings  New  and  N1ck. Karen. AI. Mike. Mock. A1ch. Mark.  ASPEN FOR SPRINGBREAK  
NOTICES  SATURDAY 2/18 BETWEEN 3:30 & 7 PM. BETWEEN THE ARCHIE BLDG.  stone. JMU 84 inside. $50 reward. Call Jim 1572.  unused At 2729749  room  109 Keen n  OCNo.  Tom. Justin. Matt. Dave. Cla~re. Ang1e. Dave. Ang. Jill. Laura. Susan. Claire. and  2 SPACES OPEN $265 5 DAYS-& NIGHTS  
AND GRACE HALL IF FOUND. PLEASE  ........  Laune  5 DAY UFT TICKET  
CALL 1641 EDDY.  REWARD for return of bookbag with EE  Canon AE·1 wHh telephot  lena, 50  CALL 284-4391  
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT·  books inside lost 2/21  at South Dining  mm lena, and Flash 200.00 ( alf Jim at  Sorry  
HERSI Surfs up but our prices aren't.  LOST CHEAP UTILE CAMERA at JPW  Haii.Ca11Ed3110  _  ~  -~  ., 272-5289.  
From just $109.00 • spend 7 fun-lilted  Dinner Saturday n1ghl  ll"s  brown  and  ....~.:.::;;..,.................................... ..............  Tom  W1llthe Tard1s appear 1n 325 Reg1na So.?  
dayaln sunny Florida. Call lor yourself  beige. II has a buill-In flash. and it is held  Dr Who  
or organize a small group and travel FREEl Great lor clubs, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 36&-2006, ask lor An·  together by a piece of tape But it has some JPW photos on the film tns1de. If found. please call Gib at1662.  [!oRRENT  CARTRIIJG~ $30.TAPES TDK & MAXELL) $2.50\ CALL OM MEAKIN 277-3306 \.  Orioles fever .. CURE ITIIIII GO WHITE SOX!!I(Sorry 3rd Flenner) See you 1n the SeMs (aga1nl)  DR WHO·· where? TER  WHEN?~ The MAS­ 
nella. Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS' ARMY ROTC! See LTC Bob Sk1nner or CPT Anne Aleman 1n the ROTC Building (239­6264).  lost. TAN CASHMERE SWEATER on Feb. 21 also a CAStO CALCULATOR WATCH at the GMAT tests in the Engineenng Auditonum Please call Ron al277-8452 if Found. REWARD FOUND: What looks flke a car key by  FURNISHED HO\SE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 21"-3604/288-0955 Male needed to shore PEACEFUL. com­fortable. cheap. •pt.. very close to campus. with 2 olhots 289·2072.  ...............1 IL...--_TIC~K~_Ts-+------'1 . ...... L.  DAVID HENRY SMITH aka PLATO aka VIC IS TWENTY TODAY! HE WILL BE RECEIVING KISSES ALL DAY LONGI HAPPY BIRTHDAY! JOHN AND CHRIS THE LAWS OF MA GOODWENCH LAW NO. 8 (SMC Freez1ng Po1nl) The  WASHINGTON DC SPRING BUS STILL A FEW SEATS OPEN CALL CHRIS 8796 FOR INFO ROCK 105 IS DEAD! 104 THE HEP· TAGONSUITEAULESFIASTMAIN FM  
ENOUGH Ill Hey guys. cool tl with the sweats and 1ack­ets. okay? II was ONLY the Liberty Bowl!  the Architectural Bldg. Call Pauf Bundschuh 813108to ldentltly and H'a yours. LOSTILOSTILOSTI MEN"S RED VELCRO WALLET AT ACC DURING JPW COCKTAIL DANCE CALL CHIP No.  HOUSES FOR "M·a5 SCHOOL YEAR SAVE ~LIFE Ill FURNISHED. 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS My father will KILL rr•e if I do "I come upCALL 277-3461 with Marq...,le • .ckels for hll1 and h1s visiting lnen~ft. He"s VERY opular. but also very 'ttveallhy, so mo ey is no WANTED:r--~r~~~~~~~·~;~~~~.~~ 87~~ H hanx.  minimum freezing potnt of any smc chic equals 96.6 degrees Better drug the parakeet ..11 looks like an­other SLOW DEATH (S)Meghan. Ourt your bitchin" I Love. the  ERIC IS NO LONGER BORING! HE NOW LIKES SHOPPING CARTS AND GARBAGE CANS ENGINEERS FREE PIZZA AND BEVERAGES IN THE BP PARTY ROOM FREE BEVERAGES FOR ALL EN·  
8831  bitches  GINEEAS  GET INTO THE SPIRIT OF  
EGWEEK  
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30  LOST.  BROOKS  BROTHERS  ..............  Need  2  Commel~ement  lie ets.  Jake  OVINE PRINCESSES. D1d WE have a  
SWEATER.  PINK  AND  SUP-OVER.  I  SOPHMORESI  lnlere•led ·;n becoming  1771  :,  good t1me Saturday on OUR dale? THE  HOWLANDIII  EG  OUTSTANDING  
BOOKSTORE  BASKETBALL  IS  LOST IT A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO OR EARLIER. PLEASE CALL BUDDY  an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT  NEEo···;;:r·uoiit.ir ..Ti~.. FoR o.A:YioN  YOUNG RUFFIANS  TEACHER NOTII  AWARDIIII  WHY??  WHY  
COMING SOON I STAY TUNED TO THIS  AT 8278 ANYTIME.  Anne Rieman in lh~ ROTC Building (239·  GAME 3/4 CALL KEVIN al82  4  FING"S KINGS ·on the road to the Ptlf""  
BAT CHANNEL FOR MORE DETAILS.  ..........................  6264) .  INTEAHALL FEVER!  KP Who ever heard of a blue-eyed  
...................................... ···················•·· Better call the funeral home·-11 looks like another SLOW DEATH.  LOST; NO SCHOOL RING. 10K GOLD WITH SMOOTH BLUE STONE. IN· SCRIPTION "AVE MARIA WNM 84" REWARD UPON RETURN. PLEASE  Now accepting applications at BBO-Must be 21 . Come in or Call  LEE"S  I PERSONA~S  I  GO FRITZI! MONDALE SUPPORTERS SIGN UP NOW TO BE DELEGATES IN OURIMOCKCONVENTION  MOOSE?MJ AttentiOn Law students: Needa ghostwnter for that Gothic novel to pay  
NEED CASH? E•m $500& eiiCh school  CALL BILL AT 8278 OR RETURN TO  1 Aide needed to Long Island for Spnng  yourway lhru school? Contact Mike Allen  
yellt,  2-4  (llexlbltt)  hours  per  -k  LOST AND FOUND DEPT. IN ADMIN.  Break. Call Calhy 7076  YIKES!  T1  &  T3  THANKS.  FOR  (a man who knows about love at 6380  
placing and filling posters on c•mpua. Serloue workera onlyi we give recom­mendations. 1.80()..243-6679.  BLDG. THANK YOU. YOI To he who accidentally took my green Notre Dame windbreaker from  Heading east?Need ride to Toledo (exH 4 or 5)March 1-4.Cilll Karen 811674  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 1 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN  WHATEVER IT IS. REMEMBER PAYBACK"S A ITCHff T4(?) POPCORN. PIZZA. PEPSI. TEA  (Happy 8-day M1ke!) DESCARTES LAW OF KIRK'S BIG BUTI WOMEN WHO GAIN WEIGHT  
DEMOCRATS!  DEMOCRATS!  Senior Baron Wednesday. 2·22: 1. You"ll find my name on the back of the tag. 2. I  THIS SECRETARY NEEDS A SPRING BREAK. TOO. AM DRIVING TO  ORIOLES FEVER .. catch itflf  ARGYLES. PLATO. AND KILLER FRIS· BEE TO THERESA MAY OUR FRIEND  GET BIG IN THE BUTT MEN WHO GAIN WEIGHT GET BIG IN THE GUT. WHEN  
DEMOCRATS! SIGN UP NOW TO BE A  can further positively identify it.  If you  WESTBURY.  LO.._,G  ISLAND  FOR  THIS THOUGHTFUL WISH WE SEND  KIRK GAINS WEIGHT. HE GETS BIG IN  
DELEGATE IN OUR MOCK CONVEN·  would like to retum il. call Chip at x8728 or  BREAK WEEK.  NEED RIDERS.  CALL  HAPPY HAPPY BIRTHDAY T · WE LOVE  THE  BUTT.  THEREFORE,  KIRK  IS  A  
TION  drop it off at the Lost & Found in the Adm.  PAT AT 239·5435. 233-8410 OR 1120  COSMOS FEVER ...•••••.CATC ~ ITIIIIIII  YOU·KANDJ  WOMAN  
Building. II would be greatly appreciated.  MEMORIAL LIBRARY  
\  LOST/FOUND I  FOUND: Cross pen and pencil set be­tween P. W and Flanner call 3181 and describe.  FOR SALE  Boston club spr1ng break bu s1gn-ups ($115 or $50 non-refunaab deposit mandatory) Feb 28 at p.m. in LaFortune First come, first • rved.  WE WANT BOBI WE WANT BOBf DOWN WITH DAVE! SARAH · Sorry about So. Bend. You know that f"d never do that to you on  SENIORS CLASS OF 84 This IS Ill 84 days "Ill graduallon Come to the COUNTDOWN PARTY tomghl et Semor Bart  
LOST:  ONE  PEARL  NECKLACE  IN  LOST a pair of metal-framed glasses in red case If found. call 6973  (ljfil~.i~l;ed of the Nii ~~  iii~? ~II  purpose Dr. Who  Whatever happened to Brother Bruno?  
ACC  MONOGRAM  ROOM.  CALL  Want to know whal"s really go1ng on in the  our serviCe at 3727  NOW FOAMING The Sarah Jane Sm1th  Whatever happened to Mark F1drych?  
CINDY 283·2856.  LOST. Silver Class Ring woth Red Stone  Catholic  Church?  Read  NATIONAL  fan club Stay tuned for details  
lnscnplion T JM Call Beaver 8348  CATHOLIC  REPORTER,  the  only  I LOST a dark blue jacket wi  red plaid  Whatever happened to T1ny T1m?  
LOST HELP!I 1 4kt gold earring. sh1eld  newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­ hning somewhere 1n LaFortun  late Tues­ THE LAWS OF MAS GOODFRENCH  
shape. 1.25 1n. diameter REWARD!ff if  Found: Chain w1th cross at Stepan courts  scription information and a free sample  day mght. My name ts In 11 -· J.  Whalen  LAW NO 1 ALL MEN ARE LIKE NOTRE  nemdem e al zerlmeR craM  
found please call234· 1 1 70 aHer 5 best  Tuesday a«ernoon. Call Steve at 1670.  copy. call Paul at 277-4851  Please call Joe at8423 11 you f  d n  DAME·OVEARATED  
•••••.•••-;,if'••  

Monday, February 27; 1984-page 9

The Observer 

® 

Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another crushing blow? 
Revive yourself with a well­
rounded meal from Dominds Pizza. We'll help smooth the wrinkles out of your day. 
Dominds Pizza makes this guarantee: If your pizza does not arrive within 30 minutes, it's free... no coupon necessary! 
Fast... Free 
D,elive~ 
Call us. 277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Plaza 23 Center 
Hours: 
4:30pm-1 am Sun·Thurs. 
4:30pm-2&.m Fri. & Sat. 
Ask about our party 
discounts. 
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00. 
I I 
I Monday
I 
I Special 
II. 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 12" cheese $4.79 16" cheese $6.89 
Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4 
Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers and Sausage 
12" Deluxe $ 8.35 
16" Deluxe $12.05 
Additional Items Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Olives, Green Peppers, Onions, Ground Beef, Sausage, Extra Cheese, Ham, Extra Thick Crust, Jalapenos, Anchovies 12" pizza $ .89 per item 16~ pizza $1.29 per item 
Coke•available 
Prices do not include applicable sales tax. 
Limited delivery area 
0 1984 DominO'a Piul, Inc. 

r··---------------------------,
I 
L•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 
Only $7.25 for a 16" 1·item pizza with two Cokes•. Good Mondays Only. One coupon per pizza 
Fast, Free Delivery~ 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
39033/2650 
r l I 

Men 
continuedfrom page 12 
thing but commit fouls in any of these formations. 
Sluby remained calm, however, and he hit II of20 attempts from the floor and eight of I2 from the line. 
"We thought we had to take (Sluby) out ofthe game," Marquette coach Rick Majerus admitted after­ward. "He's a great player; he's a great scorer. He scored on our box -he's just so confident." 
Majerus said he wanted to lay more man-to-man and box-and-one on Sluby, but his players ran into foul trouble. Three of Marquette's start­ers eventually fouled out of the game. 
Sluby owned what was perhaps the most exciting play of Saturday's game. With about 8:20 left in the game, Sluby's jumper from the foul line was blocked by Dwayne Johnson, creating a fast break for Marquette.Johnson got the ball back and went up to jam the ball home, but Sluby carne from behind him and slammed the ball into the seats in­stead. 
"He had just blocked my shot," Sluby recalled, "and I was mad be­cause I didn't ball-fake him. I just wanted to get back down and stop the play." 
By this time, the Warriors were struggling unsuccessfully to stay in the game, and they never again came closer than six to the Irish. 
The small-but-vocal ·Marquette are ...Marquette," only to be answered by the Notre Dame stu­dents, "Who cares?" 
The game was iced with 17 seconds remaining, when Donald Royal slammed home Notre Dame's 65th point of the day. Richard McCormick added a layup to end Marquette's scoring for the game at 56. 
Royal was the second-leading scorer for the Irish, with 13 points, six rebounds, and three blocked shots. He shot 67 percent (four for six) from the floor, and 71 percent (five for seven) from the foul line. 
Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps was impressed with the play of this 6-7 freshman from New Orleans, who has been starting in place ofthe injured Tim Kempton. 
"I think Donald Royal has really handled this (starting) m:ll," Phelps says. "He's been patient, and he's playing with a lot of confidence, now." 
Royal says he is now comfortable in his starting role, although he was not, at first. 
"In the beginning, when I first started, I demanded a lot from myself," Royal says. "I had to come into a groove. It took a few games for me to get settled with the game, and I feel right at home, now." 
Other leaders for the Irish were 
Scott Hicks, with nine points, and 
Ken Barlow, who had II rebounds. 
High-point man for the Warriors 

was Dwayne Johnson, with I8. 
Marotta had I0 points and II otebounds for Marquette, and Copa added II points to the losing effort. Phelps said afterward that Notre Dame's defense had been a key fac­
contingent of fans proclaimed for . tor in the second half. the last time, "We "We really kept mixing our 

defenses," the Irish coach said, "and I thought we did a better job offor­cing them to take outside shots, which gave us the long rebound situation. 
"The thing about Marquette," Phelps continued, "is that they can get hot, and that was my concern about them. No matter what defense we were playing, I was worried about their outside shooting." 
Majerus said he thinks that tur­rovers were a major cause of his team's loss. 
"We were our own worst enemy in turnovers," Majerus said. "We got the ball on the break and turned it over. In two-on-one situations, we don't take the ball to the basket." 
Majerus also attributed the loss to the Notre Dame offense, which handled the Marquette defense well. 
"We wanted to play the box," the Warrior coach said, "but they got some easy baskets off the other guys (besides Sluby in the box at the start ofthe second half. They made a nice adjustment." 
Sluby said that he had been hoping in the first half that the Irish could make that adjustment. 
"I was just hoping some of the other fellows could hit a few open jumpers and drive the gaps," the Irish swingman said. 
Phelps concluded that the game was a fitting end for Sluby's and Cecil Rucker's careers at Notre Dame. 
"I think for the seniors it was a great way to go out," Phelps said. "That's part ofthe tradition we've al­ways had here at Notre Dame. It was a big win for us." 
The Irish will conclude their regular season on the road next Saturday at Dayton. 

Havetheluck oftheIrish. Instantly. 
IntroducingCafe Irish Creme. 
Smooth and satisfying, it blends coffee with the rich flavor of Irish creme for a taste that will bring out the Irish in everyone. 
f3o¢­
3o¢i 

l Introducing Cafe Irish Creme. 
I 
I NB018764 

I s 
I I 
43000 84830

L ___ _ 
I 

04 I
g~p~'Jl'~~T~~::;~3M~chase of product Indicated. Any other use constitutes fraud. 
LIMIT-ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. To the retailer: GFC will reimburse you for the face value of this coupon plus 8¢ if submitted in compliance with GFC Redemption Policy 
I 

C-1, mcorporated herein by reference. Valid only if redeemed by retail distributors of 
our merchandise or anyone spec1f1cally authorized by GFC. Cash value 1/20¢. Mail to: 
General Foods Corporation. P.O. Box 103. Kankakee. IL 60902. 
Q£NERAL.F0008 
I 

--_ ------_:e::F::.C=at=98.:_ -­
:J 

r---------------------------------------------------------.---------------------------------------~~~--------­
The Observer 
Hockey 
continuedfrom page 11 
Pardo with a shot to his glove side from right in front. 
Five minutes later, however, Dearborn's Ryan Willette took a pass from Craig Aittama, deked Irish net­minder Tim Lukenda. and flipped 
the puck  into the  net  to  put  the  
Wolves up 4-1.  
Then  at  12:53,  co-captain  Joe  

Bowie rifled a drive that bounced off Pardo's shoulder and into the goal to pull the Irish within two. 
Notre Dame continued to apply pressure, and on a powerplay at 
17:54 Tim Reilly stepped out from behind the Dearborn goal to hit Steve Ely near the top of the circle on the right wing side. Ely's blast through a screen took Pardo by surprise, and wi th just over two minutes to play, the Irish trailed by just one.. 
With 51 seconds remaining, Lukenda was lifted in favor of an ex­tra attacker. The Wolves' Joe Char­tier was then whistled for tripping at 
19:39 giving Notre Dame a six-to­four man advantage. But agressive defense by Pardo and his teammates kept the swarming Irish from capitalzing. 
"We controlled most of the play, hut tried to be too cute with the pas­sing," said Irish mentor Lefty smith. "We were looking for a special shot instead of just taking one. They capitalzed on some of our mistakes and that hurt. But it was good to see a strong comeback after being down." 
Gary Chanson's goal at 7:12 ofthe opening period was the only score in the stanza. But the Wolves came close five other times as four shots found posts behind Lukenda and an­other was blocked by a Dearborn player, who had wandered in back of Lukenda as he came out to cut the angle on a shot from the right boards. 
Doug Hervey then got the lone goal of the second period at 5:33 as he and Larry Massa found them­selves alone in front ofthe Irish goal. 
With Dearborn up 2-0, Lukenda made two fine, sliding saves in the final two minutes ofthe period, stop­ping both Massa and Hervey on breakaway attempts. 
Lukenda had 25 saves on the night. while Dearborn's Pardo had 24. 
Saturday was a different story for Notre Dame as it came out flying and wasted little time jumping into the lead. 
In fact, it took just 25 seconds for Metzler to take Bob Thebeau's pass from tht· right wing and beat Chuck Irwin to the open side and put the Irish up 1-0. 
"Tonight we were ready for them right from the start," said Parsons. "Scoring quickly then set the pace for the whole game." 
MOCK CONVENTION Delegate Sign-Ups 
•Apply by mall to Student 
Government Office or 
•Sign-up In Dining Halls this Tuesday or Wednesday 
oocome on 1ntegrol pori of th1s unforgettable event I 1984 Mock COnvent1on Apnl4-I 

,.-....R~c.~o's Hair 14 
~Styling 
531 N. Michigan St., 
South Bend 
Phone 233-4957 

................................................-
Chartier then sli 
Lukenda on a nice s 
Dahm to tie the score 
Just 30 seconds I ter, though, Thebeau's slapshot from the blueline cleanly beat I Irish were back in fro and Ely had the assists. 
There was no scori g then until I 5:38 when Notre Dam picked up a shorthanded goal, its ighth of the season, to go in front . 1. Bowie in­tercepted a Dearborn ·Iearing pass and fed Parsons in the . lot where he fired a wrist shot hi to Irwin's glove side for his firs tally of the night. 
Willette, then scor d for Dear­born on a powerplay seconds remaining in keep the game close. 
Jim Hatt replaced in the Dearborn goal at the of the second period. 
The Irish then pick d up their fourth goal of the nig t at 8:23 of second period as Chap an rocketed down the right wing, st pped in the corner and quickly tu ned to find Parsons, whose drive om the cen­ter of the face-off circl eluded Hatt to his stick side. 

At 2:18 of the final riod, Notre 
powerplay 
y Bonadio's rifle shot from the ri t side, near the top of the cir 
le whizzed through the legs of Hat 
Greg Everson then lead to S-3 at 6:12. 
Parsons completed just 25 seconds later s he took a pass from Metzler bre ing in on right wing, and ramme it in from 
Monday, February 27, 198'4·--page 10 
Th<:> Observer/Paul Cifardli 
The hockey team ended their regular season against Domansky's story on page 12. 
the. University of Michigan-Dearborn. See Ed 
the left corner of the crease, past a sliding Hatt. 
Notre Dame made it 7-3 at 12:28 
when Jeff Badalich skated from the 
right corner, faked once and flipped 
the puck high over Hatt's glove. 
The second Dearborn powerplay goal of the night rounded out the evening's scoring. Willette beat Lukenda from the top of the left circle with just 2:50 left to play. 
"A key factor in tonight's success was our forechecking," said Smith. "We were playing the body more and it allowed us to get a few more turnovers inside. We also moved the puck much better; and it helped in getting a better flow going." 
"We took shots rather than looking for the perfect play," said Bowie. "Everyone skated well. It was a real team effort." 
Lukenda made 22 saves in earning the win. Irwin and Hatt teamed up to make 27 stops in a losing cause for Dearborn. 
Dearborn now stands at 17-19 on the season. Smith's 16-year career-record is now 274-261-28. 

SENIORS WinaBIDfor The 1984 Senior Formal at the 84 Day Countdown Party onday, feb. 27 at Senior Bar 
Raffle tfx are 50 cents each. Will be sold at LaFortune, LeMons Lobby and at the door. 
Hair Cut Shampoo Blow Dry & Condition 
54533 Te"aca Lana, 

'soulllhrNI(Acroaa ,,.,. 
Reg. $15·00 

~ llatfln'8 Oft S.R. 23} Now $8·50 with coupon I 
I 

T, W 8:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons I I Th 8:30-8:30 I 
I

Fr 8:30-6:00 
s 8:30-2:30 I ClosedMon 272-0312 I 
I 

TH SOLD HOUSE 
PI ZERIA & PUB 

~13UJ~()'§'' 
MONDAY ONLY 2/27/84 Bruno will deliver a Medium 16" pizza with 2 toppings for only $6.95 TUESDAY-THURSDAY Bruno will deliver a Medium 16" pizza with 2 toppings for only$8. 95 plus 1 liter of pepsi FREE 
·Mon -Thurs Frl -Sat 
277-4519
.f<i-1OPM .,. 

. , lJntllllPM OPI!JIII 8UJIIIJAY 4-1· . 
277-4519 
Observer 
sportswriters!! ! 

There will be a meeting for all current sportswriters and those interested in writing on W ednes­day, February 29, at 6:JO p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. 
If you cannot attend, call Mike at 239-5323 before the schedul­ed time. All copy editors are re­quested to attend also. 
ENGINEERS 
Pizza Party 
at Breen Philips TODAY 4:30-7 p.m. And its all free! 



The Picture Man PRESENTS 
Jm1LO!l cpallm1m CWee~e~d "Proofs on Display" 
Where: LaFortune Student Center When: Thurs and Fri, Feb. 23, 24--Mon, Tues, VVed,Feb.27,28,29 Time: 11 pm -4 pm each day 

""..............................HIIeii...IHHIIIIIttHftllt...MIIIIIIIIIIIII.........HHII.... 
mOCK STOCK mARKET 


~~~C3L~----------~-------------------------M-o_n_d_a_y,_F_eb_r_u_ary
__2_7_,_19_8_4---p-ag_e_l...l 

Bloom County 
5UR€ WOUlJ7 ~IKE TO f7A{:; A'CUJN, ANY1111Nf: WK€ OR 'P055UM I WANT MAYfJ£ AWOO[l-ANYTHIN(t 
CHUCK' HOW '801/T I 
\1JU,LW£'~ 
),d/;1
:\~ lfv~ 1J!
7 

Mellish 

------:-•

IUH .. 'Wf )HOUlDN'T READ THE 1U~E T/115 PHRASE. 1./UO!f SlRJP, "~EH~UOUS 5fCW!il :· DAVE .. IT 
Iii TOHDAAOI•I'5 SfRIP, fiTS. 
DAVE. 1r's NOT FuNN~ 1 



Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side Gary Larson 
f ' 
"It's called an unauthorized biography because Mrs. Onassis didn't give me no help." "And now, Randy, by use of song, the male sparrow will stake out his territory , .. an instinct common in the lower an1mals." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  35 Shortly  DOWN  22 Light giver  
1 Husband of  36 Houston  1 Experts  23 Bakery  
Jezebel  athlete  2 Stop  worker  
5 Locomotive  38 Leaveout  3 Vapor:  24 Food fish  
sections  39 Aversion  comb. form  25-Tennille  
9 Dogpatch  41 Stay  4 Maxor  26 Cupid  
creator  42 Bart or  Buddy  27 Relative  
13 Underground  Ringo  5 Short·  31 Earpart  
vaults  44 Flat cap  legged dogs  32 Arabian  
15 Mollify  45 US phllan·  6 Swiss  prince  
17 USdrama·  throplst  writer  33 Carnival  
tlst  50 Frog, often  7 Eng. telly  attraction  
18 Tierney·  51 Student  monogram  34 Printer's  
Webb film  56 US painter  8 Comp. pt.  word  
19 Computer  57 USphllan·  9 Peace pipe  36 Furmer·  
memory  throplst  10 "His word  chant  
20 Season  59 Grown  burned  37 Celebrity  
21  Keystone  person  like-"  40 Upward  
State  60 Changes the  11 Feather  slopes 
founder  structure of  12 Writing  41 Patterned  
24 Filches  61 Pub orders  marie: abbr.  vowel  
28 Farm unit 29 Egyptian light god 30 Irritating persons  62 Gang follower 63 USSR negative  14 Moves slowly 16 Story 20 Florentine painter  change 43 Make brake drum repair 45 Movie lion  

Berke Breathed · 
Campus 


OH, HEY' IT IS PRfrTY FUNNV... 


46 F. Scott's 52 Kansas wife miler 47 Duly the 53 Not any 
painter 54 Robt.­48 "Behold­55 Relax horse..." 57 McMahon and 49 "The Merry Ames Widow" 58 Permit composer 
Friday's Solution 
STARSIEVE"IITES
TAROT VA:!A NASA UKASE E R I C I Ti~ D E L I V E R Y rt"~ A R G E IS 1-E ELY-uNEASY 
W E S_l~~S P T T E D­
H A TJH A L • T U R F I:S I S]ElE l~ A R ~~L I R A 
T El!UR A. A R R P E N ·-I N T E R I M U___lllE__lDJ 
IHAVEA-N T" 'IJI!! 'l&fNT  D~  
IGET [SALE A R A R  FRArn ty~y • Y E N  ' 'LEAVE A~PEN I /S E R E  

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Graphics on the 3033, 115 CCMB 

•6:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "A Challenge to Women: The American Economy. Do You Really Know What is Going On?" Mrs. June Collier, 303 Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's 

•7 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, London Summer Program, Passport pictures will be taken, 349 Madeleva Class Room Building 

•7 
p.m.-Monday Night Film Series, "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington," Annenberg Auditorium, S2.50 

•7:30 
p.m. -Sophomore Literay Festival Lecture,Joel Oppenheimer, Library Auditorium


Dave 
•8 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Rome Sum· mer Program, Passport pictures will be taken, 349 Madeleva Class Room Building 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series ll, "La Dolce Vita," Annenberg Auditorium, S2.50 



TV Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
9p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MA.~H 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 34 Straight Talk 16 TV Bloopers and PracticalJokes 22 Scarecrow and Mrs. King 28 That's Incredible 34 Frontline 16 Bob Hope Hawaii Special 22 Aftermash 28 ABC Monday Night Movie 34 Great Performances 16 Those Wonderful TV Game Shows 22 Emerald Point, N.A.S. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/ Columbo 28 Thicke ofthe Night 
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACCENT is here ~" -'\'" ~ 
',&(0~~:¥ ~'\ 
~\~r 

A new lecture senes sponsored by the Student Union and hall aca~ conlf.nissions. Featuring informal discussions with students, faculty. and administrators on various issues 
and topics. 

What does the Student Union Record Store have for .me? 
• Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price Any record or tape may be ordered--takes 4-5 days 
NO EXTRA COST  
Blank tapes:  
TDKSA 90's TDKSA60's Maxell UDXLII's • Postage Stamps  2 pk--$6.00 2 pk--$4.50 2 pk--$7.00  1--$3.25 1--$2.50 1--$3.75  

Monday, February 27, 1984-page 12
s 
orts 

Irish scalp Warrio 
led by Sluby's 30 p 
By PHIL WOLF 
.\ports Writer 
It was a great way to finish the regular season at home. 
Senior Tom Sluby exploded for a career-high 30 points in the ACC Saturday to kad the Irish past Mar­quette, 65-56. 
"(This victory) feels really good, because I didn't want to go out losing to Marq uetle," Sluby said af­terward. "Every year this is a big game, and it was pretty important for us to win." 
The game was exciting from the opening tipoff, as the two teams traded baskets to tie the game at two, l(lur, and six. 
Joe lloward scored first for the Irish following a Marquette turnover 46 s econds into the game. The War­riors then came back with a slam dunk by Tom Copa, who received an excdlc:nt pass inside from Marc Marotta. 
The next time the Warriors had the ball, Marotta had it stripped away by Sluby, and Donald Royal hit an ea~y layup with an assist from Joe Howard. 
The Irish slowly began to slip into the lead, and they held a I5-l0 ad­vantage with 9:32 remaining in the half. Eight consecutive points for Marquette, however, 
riors a three-point 
7:21 left in the first 
riors lead by more 

RoyalcutthediJ~eJ:entcq 
two free throws halftime. Marquette's fc fense then could not points for the rest of expired while the W 29-28 advantage. 
The Irish regained Jim Dolan hit a l 5-foot the right baseline had elapsed in the 
The Irish started 

~lflOirlVlltllrH<lVP1r~ at 
Scott  
Hicks was effective as  guard,  
and Jim Dolan also  up top on  
occas ion to help N  Dame build  
up a 12-point lead, 52  wit  h9:16  
left on the clock.  
Sluby continued to  
and the Warriors  

stop him. They tried a l!lox-:m<l-one defense on him, they three zone, and they little bit of man-to-man 
Women thrash Xa in seniors' home 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
It had been a long time -nearly a month -since the Notre Dame women's basketball team had won a game in a thoroughly convincing fa~­hion. The Irish did it Saturday night, holding tht· upper hand from start to finish in a 91-77 victory over the Lady Muskateers of Xavier Univer­sity. 
The win raised Notre Dame's record to I 1-I 3. and kept alive the team's hopes for a .500 sea'i<m (there are four games remaining). During a campaign in which the Irish have seen more than their share of disappointments, there wert· a lot of bright spots in Satur­day's victory. 
This wa~ particularly true of­fensively, as Notre Dame netted its third-highest team point total in its seven-year history. The team's 96 points against Marquette in the sea~on opener set the record. 
Individually, it wa~ a balanced scoring attack that paced the Irish to victory, as five players scored in doubk figures, led by center Mary Beth St·hueth's I 9 points. Forwards Trena Keys ( I 2 points) and Carrie Hates (II points), as well as guard Laura Dougherty ( I 0 points), also sparkt·d the Irish attack. 
Notre Damt· also got strong sup­port from its reserves, led by for­ward Ruth Kaiser's I I points, as well as the contributions of seniors Thert•sa Mullins (one oftht·lrish co­captains) at guard, and Jenny Klauke at forward, both of whom played their t1nal gamt· at the ACC. 
Schueth and Keys scored the first two baskets of the game, enroute to a nine-point halftime lead, 41-32. Notre Dame was especially dominant on the hoards in the first half, as they outrehounded Xavier 19-6. 
"We were really concentrating on rebounding, especially in the first half," said Schueth. "That's because we had a team-low for rebounds in 
The ()hM-rvt:'r/Paul (;if:art"lll 

Tom Sluby's career high 30 points led the Irish over Sluby and Cecil Rucker. The Irish face /Ja)'ton Satur-Marquette, the last home regular season game for day night. See Phil Wolfs story at left. · 
Playoffs this weekend 
Hockey team splits season finale 
By ED DOMANSKY States Collegiate Hockey League Sports Writer playoffs. Friday, Marquette will meet Iowa State at 6 p.m. and the Irish will 
The Notre Dame hockey team take on Illinois State at 8:30p.m. The earned a split this weekend with the consolation game is scheduled for University of Michigan-Dearborn as Saturday at 5 p.m. with the cham­it closed out regular-season action pionship contest slated to get under for 1983-84. way at 7:30p.m. 
An Irish rally fell short on Friday as Friday's loss marked the first such 
the Wolves hung on to take a 4-3 setback for the Irish on home-ice win. Saturday, behind a three goal and one assist performance from this sea~on. They had won t:leven straight until that point. 
Notre Dame trailed 3-0 until the '5:46 mark of the third period when Parsons, with help from linemates Mike Metzler and co-captain Brent Chapman, beat Wolf goalie Brick 
see HOCKEY, page 10 

Adam Parsons, Notre Dame turned things around and came away with a 7-4 victory. 
The Notre Dame record now stands at an impressive 22-4-1. 
The final action of the season comes next weekend when Notre Dame plays ·host to the Central 
Defensive line coach accused of rule violation 
By PAUL McGINN 
Executive Editor 
Bishop Harris, Notre· Dame's new defensive line coach, repor­tedly exchanged money for football tickets as an assistant coach at Louisiana State University, charged a former L.S.U. player, according to an article in yesterday's New Orleans Times­Picayune. 
Clyde Bishop, a former wide receiver at L.S.ll., reportedly told 
an NCAA board ofinquiry that Harris. in the fall of 1981, "would 
bring him cash in an envelope in return for the (player's allotted) 
game tickets." 
The story also said Bishop and another former L.S.ll. player, 
Donald Polk, "claimed that assistant coaches helped them illegal­
ly sell game tickets, in some cases for more than 30 times the face 
value." 
Contacted by The Observer last night, Harris said, "I'm not 
going to lower myselfto his level to respond to that. I don't know 
what the hell he's talking about. 
"He didn't play but one year," said Harris. "He flunked out of 
school after his first semester. I think it's just sour grapes on his 
part." 
Neither Bishop, now a member of the track team at Texas Southern University in Houston, nor Notre Dame Head Football Coach Gerry Faust, who is vacationing in Puerto Rico, could be reached for comment by The Observer. 
Dean Guidry, a senior offensive lineman at L.S.U., told the Times-Picayune that while he could not prove coaches and players did anything illegal, many things seemed questionable. 
"To tell you I've seen it or have proof would he a lie, but it's obvious it's common knowledge," Guidry said. 
Bob Brodhead, L.S.ll.'s athletic director, who began his duties June I, 1982, said "I do not know ofcar. clothes or ticket sales. If I knew it and there were evidence presented we would do some· thing about it." 
Former head football coach Jerry Stovall. who was fired by 
L.S.U. Dec. 2, 1983, also denied knowledge of the alleged ticket sales. "It's absolutely absurd," Stovall said. "In four years as head foot­ball coach at no time did any player ask for anything illegally. "At ·no time did any assistant coach suggest anything illegal immoral or unethical," Stovall added. 
Last April, the NCAA had announced it wa~ beginning a prelimi· nary investigation into the L.S.U. athletic department after it heard claims that students were receiving money and gifts from wealthy L.S.U. alumni who football players nicknamed "money 
men." 
Ifsubstantiated, the claims made by Polk and Bishop could leadour la~t game against Detroit." 

The women's ba~sk,fltlJ•all team ended its home season against the 
to sanctions or probation of L.S.ll. by the NCAA.
Notre Dame was outrebounded 

Lady Muskateers a victory. See Larry Burke's story at left. 
hy a 35-22 margin last Saturday. 





