-----------------------------~------~-­
OPEC-page6 


Tbe debate last ntgbt between Mike Brogtolt of Momulle/Ferraro and Bt/1 Healy of Reagan/Bush event ofElection Awareness Week sponsored by the in the Hayes-Healy auditorium was the second Election Task Force and the Student Lobby. 
Murdered priest found in reservoir 
As11odated Press 
WARSAW, POLAND-Police frog­men found the body ofthe Rev.Jerzy Popieluszko In the icy waters of a reservoir yesterday, I I days after three secret police officers kid­napped the pro-Solidarity priest, the official news media reported. 
Solidarity leader Lech Walesa said "the worst hao; happened," and ap­pt•aled for calm. 
"One wanted to kill. and he killed not only a man, not only a Pole, not only a priest -one wanted to kill the hopt· that it is possibk to avoid vio­lence In Poland in political life," he said. 
He offered to step down as head of the outlawed union federation if it would ensure a dialogue hetween Poland's communist authorities and the people. 
There were no reports of distur­bances after the announcement on state-run television's evening newscast that the 37-year-old priest had been murdered and his body recovered. 
'lbe government announced Friday that three Interior Ministry officers a captain and two lieutenants -had been jailed and would be charged with the kidnap­ping. 
Polish authorities suggested the kidnap-murder might be part of a broader conspiracy, and placed the three prisoners under special protection. 
At Popieluszko's Stanislaw Kostka Church in Warsaw, many people in the congregation of several 


Debate gives students chance to air opinions 
By DIANE DUTART 
News Staff 
Choose one: 
•President 
Ronald Reagan ha<; made a shambles of the economy, dis­rt•gardt•d tht· needs of the poor, and has led the nation closer to nuclear war. 

•Democratic 
challenger Walter Mondale will bring back inflation, holds a view on abortion that is in­consistt'nt with Catholicism, and will weaken the defense of the na­tion. 


Those were the two alternatives 
outlined in a debate last night be­tween Mike Brogioli, a representa­tive for Students for Mondale/Ferraro. and Bill Healy, a representive for Students for Reagan/Bush. 
'The two answered five prepared questions and several questions from an enthusia'itic audience of more than I 00 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. lbe 90-minute debate was the second event ofthe Election Awareness Week, being sponsored hy the Election Task Force and Notre Dame's Student Lobby. 
The debate consisted of set ques­tions, rebuttals and questions from the audience. Each representivc also had a one-minute opening statement and a four-minute closing statement. The prepared questions, which were posed by commentator Bob Vonderheide, consisted of three dealing with foreign policy and two dealing with domestic policy. 
As in the actual debate between Reagan and Mondale, reliance on satistics, numbers, and stories was high. Both represcntives also consis­tently mentioned what the other candidate had or had not done in terms ofpolitical beliefs and actions. 
The questions asked ranged from those of strong national interest to those ofspecial interest to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
On the question of student loans, Brogioli said Reagan had cut spend­ing for education and mentioned how Mondale, if elected, planned to increao;e education spending. Healy countered by stating that "Reagan 
see DEBATE, page 6 thousand worshipers at an evening Mass wept when they were told at the end of the service that the priest had been murdered and his body found. 
"There are such moments in our lives that we simply stand com­pletely stunned and the only thing we can do is say, 'Oh, God,"' said the priest who made the announce­ment. 
More people began flocking to the church in the northern district of Zoliborz as word of the murder spread. 
No uniformed police were seen around the church, its gates adorned with flowers and Solidarity banners. 
In the Baltic port city of Gdansk, Solidarity's birthplace, the Rev. Hen­ryk Jankowski, said, "There is just one great crying and weeping in the streets, and around the church." 


Indira Gandhi shot in 'grave condition' 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, India -Prime Mini­ster Indira Gandhi was shot at least eight times yesterday in an assassina­tion attempt outside her residence and was in "very grave" condition at a hospital, the United News of India reported. 
Sources at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, the country'• most prestigious hospital, told UNI there were four bullets lodged in her 
abdomen  and  that  she  also  was  
wounded in the thigh.  
The  news  agency said she  was  

shot at by two members of her own security detail and that the two were killed on the spot by other security guards. Without elaborating, the agency also said an officer of the se­curity police was injured and "overpowered." 
UNI said the 66-year-old prime minister came out of her house yes­terday morning to make a video recording when "suddenly, out of the blue, two persons carrying Sten guns -one uniformed and one in ci­vilian clothes -shot at Mrs. Gandhi." 
"Eight to 10 bullets from the gun hit her. The two persons, stated to be on security duty at the prime ministers' residence, were instantly shot dead," Mrs. Gandhi fell down with a cry, UNI said, and members of the household and other security personnel rushed to the spot. She was immediately taken to the hospi­tal. 
UNI said one of the guards al­legedly involved in the shooting was identified ao; Satwant Singh. Singh, which means "lion" in Punjabi, is part of the name of virtually every Sikh. 
'Ibe prime minister had been un­der heavy security in recent weeks because of assassination threats, reportedly from Sikh extremists. She had returned to New Delhi late yes­terday from a two-day election cam­paign tour In ea'itern Orissa state. 
Her son, Rajiv Gandhi, who is general-secretary of the governing Congress Party, rushed back to New Delhi after hearing the news that she was shot. He was addressing a public meeting in the western state of West Bengal. 

Neither police nor the prime min­ister's office would make official statements on the attack. 
UNI said police cordoned off her residence and the hospital, three miles away, where she was taken. Her residence, No. 1 Safdarjang Rd., is on a tree-lined street in central New Delhi. 
Mrs. Gandhi, who would turn 67 on Nov. I 9, was elected to the office ofprime minister four times, the last time in 1980. 
She is the daughter of Jawaharlal Nehru, who led the nation as prime minister for 17 years after its inde­pendence from Britain in 1947. 

Center for Study of Man in Society an important part of Notre Dame 
By DANE GALDEN 
StaffReporter 

The Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society was founded in 1961 by Notre Dame Presi­dent Father Theodore Hesburgh in "an effort to make Notre Dame a first rate research institution to match the excellence of its undergraduate program" accor­ding to the Center's director David Lcegc. 
Leege said The Center Is an important aspect of the University which many people arc unaware of. The Center is a large research institute which acts as a holding company for research projects of the faculty. It also offers assistance to the faculty and graduate stu­dents who are seeking research grants, as well as offer­ing other types of research services. 
Although the Center primarily serves the faculty of the College of Arts and Letters, Leege stresses the sig­nificant impact that the Center has had on the Univer­sity as a whole. Not only was the Center instrumental in bringing 20 major addresses by noted authorities in their respective fields to Notre Dame, but its scholars produced 51 books, articles, translations, and policy reports last year. 
The Center also obtained research grants for 40 graduate students and 26 undcrgrads, and also as­sisted 160 faculty members with their research grant proposals. 
The Center's significance does not end there, however. Over 600 students are directly affected by the Center's work through their courses, primarily in the areas ofcomputer applications and instruction on how to conduct research. 
Although no actual course work or degrees are of­fered through the Center's many channels, l.eege said that "he can't stress enough the significance of hands­on training over book learning." 
As far as programs that directly affect students, hands-on training is the Center's primary focus. He also said that the people who are able to take advan­tage of the courses that are in some way affiliated with the Center's work (statistics courses, the Art.<; and Let­ters Computer Program, and the Religion and Politics course) are much better prepared for graduate school and jobs. 
Some ofthe othersignificant branches ofthe Center include the Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism; the Center for Gerontological Educa­tion, Research, And Services (GERAS); and the Mexican-American Graduate Studies Program, which was cited as one of the three best programs ofits kind In the United States by the U.S. Department of Educa­tion. 
see CENTER, page 3 

The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
A Mishawaka man faces up to to years in prison and a fine of 510,000 on charges ofreproducing and mailing a video cassette showing a minor engaged in explicit sexual acts. Robert Ullery, 48, pleaded guilty to the two charges Monday in federal court in South Bend. According to the charges, Ullery reproduced and mailed the cassette, which showed a young girl havingsex with adult males, to a man in Bellaire, Texas, on June 23. In entering his guilty plea, Ullery told U.S. District CourtJudge Allen Sharp he reproduced the film at his home and mailed the package at the Mishawaka post office. He estimated the girl in the film was about 13 years old. 
-AP 

A fire was setin an apartment building and flames from fires in abandoned buildings leaped to occupied houses Tuesday night as increased police and fire forces were called out to battle the traditional "Devil's Night" Halloween Eve arson spree. No injuries were reported. Most ofthe fires were set in abandoned buildings and trash cans, although one apartment building was burning and two other blazes spread from vacant houses to neighboring, occupied dwellings. In one block on the city's east side, three houses and a telephone pole were on fire. The fire department did not have an immediate tally ofthe number offire calls, but Deputy Fire Commis­sioner Phillip Gorak stressed that fewer blazes had been set than last year, when more than 400 buildings were torched. _AP 
Baby Fae became the longest-surviving human recipient of an animal heart yesterday and began breast-feeding as a baboon's heart beat in her chest for a fifth day. The 18-day-old infant, whose real name has not been made public at her parents' request, was in serious but stable condition, said Brenda Pfeiffer, spokes­woman for Lorna Linda University Medical Center. She was also beingfed glucose and water from a bottle, Pfeiffer said. At 11:35 a.m. PST yesterday, the baboon's heart had kept Baby Fae alive for exactly four days, making her the longest-surviving human recipient of a heart from another species. _AP 
Of Interest 

U.S. Congressman John Hiler, Republican­
3rd District in Indiana, will speak tonight at 4 in the LaFortune Little Theater. His talk will be followed by a question and answer period. It is sponsored by Students for Reagan-Bush and the College Republicans. -The Observer 
Representatives from Army ROTC will be 
visiting the dormitories beginning today and continuing through next week to answer questions about 2-and 3-year scholarships and basic camp. -The Observer 
Today's Open Forum topic is nuclear issues. 
The forum meets Wednesdays in October at the Fieldhouse Mall to allow members of the Notre Dame community to express their thoughts on pertinent social issues. In case of inclement weather, the forum will be held in the LaFortune lobby. -The Observer 
The Army ROTC Detachment invites the 
public-military and non-military-to a tri-military Mass tomorrow, All Saint's Day, at 8 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church. -The Observer 
Weather 

A chance of rain this afternoon, and high temperatures in the upper 50s. Showers will continue tonight and tomorrow with lows in the 50s and highs in the 60s to mid 
70s. -AP 


The Observer 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per se· mester) hy writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced byo 

Production Consultant ........ Steve Foster Design Editor ................. Maureen Murphy Design Assistant........................... Andy Saal Typesetters ..................................... Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor ............................... Mark Potter Copy Editor .................................... liz Miller Sports Copy Editor ....................... Phil Wolf Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Paul Cimino Viewpoint Layout .................Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout......................... Bob Henke ND Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design.................... AnnaMarie Furleigh 
John O'Connor Photographer ............................. Phil Deeter 



Let's just send them a Snickers bar 
Did you ever wonder why election day is so close to Halloween? There's a reason for this. Listen. 
Just as children dress up as their favorite character and go from house to house hoping to get something worthwhile dropped into their sacks, so do politicians put on a mask and confront the public in order to gain something for themselves. 
A ghost, a witch or a goblin may show up on your doorstep today, and you will be expected to give them a Snickers bar or, if you're really cheap, a stickofchewing gum. A president, a senator or a Democrat may appear on your television screen or will have a letter put in your mailbox today and you will be expected to slip him or her a sawbuck, a c-note or, if you're really uni­nvolved, just a vote. 
Children spend weeks preparing for today--trying to get just the right shade of green for their Frankenstein mask or the right color wig for their Boy George outfit. They'll hit every K-Mart and dime store in the neighbor­hood going through bin after bin in their quest for their "character." Politicians spend years looking for the right issues to support or try to get the backing ofthe best public figures in order to create the precise way in which they want the public to view them. 
Politicians are like little children, when it comes right down to it. They worry about the way people per­ceive them and the work hard to make themselves look like someone they may or may not be. When Presi­dent Reagan jumps off Air Force One and snaps a salute at the Marine guard, or when Walter Mondale rolls up his sleeves and sweats and shouts at a group of working people, they are projecting an image which they have spent a lot oftime developing. 
Surrounding themselves with advisors and speechwriters and imagemakers, persons running for public office want to sell themselves. They want to make the voters believe that who they seem to be is who they really are. But there's no "truth in advertising" in politics. 
They may be no more a John Wayne-type or a John Kennedy-type than the little kid who dresses like Bat­man is a superhero. But the difference lies in that the politician wants the voters to believe them. And most voters do. 
The innocent concept of "Trick or Treat" has been warped by politics into "Democrat or Republican" "Liberal or Conservative" or "Man or Monster." The 

~''"s··

(!fj(~ §lkw ~~~rt~ lUJ rulimliltcecdl~ illThCCo 
Skydiving instruction and Paraplane Flight instruction 
219-586-3580 Ba•lae•• lll9-586-ll663 Home 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
Bu_y 


Tuesday, November 6 7:30p.m.


Ooserver 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
ALL SEATS RESERVED $12" and Sll"

Classifieds 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE A.C C BOX OFFICE. SEARS. ROBERTSONS. ELKHART TRUTH. J R 'S MUSIC SHOP. ST JOSEPHS B...NK (MAIN OFFICE), WORLD RECORD !GOSHEN), MUSIC MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR). AND KARMA RECORDS (FT WAYNE) 

caCL"ru.: )uuth of ycstc. 1 '-"'r have grown up still cling­ing to the Halloween game, but with the end results being so much more than a sack of sweets. They now want power, influence and prestige. The need for these things is like an addictive drug to them --one which they will go to any lengths to possess. 
This is more frightening than the scariest spook. Politicians have spent a lot of time and money so that they can have better costumes than anybody else. The images they hope to project have to be the strongest, 
the most influential and hold up to criticism more than anybody else's. They need to win every costume contest, they have to dunk for more apples and they must get the biggest sack of rewards. It's their job. 
But at the same time, politicians are doomed. They can't ever take off the mask in public. They cannot relax their Dr. Sardonicus grin. Their choice to enter politics has condemned them to a life of constantly 
wearing  the  veil.  For  
politicians,  it's  Halloween  
365 days a year.  

Little children don't ap­
preciate their ability to take off their costume when they are done canvassing the neighborhood for treats. They can hang up the sheet and wipe off the makeup --and settle down to the pile of candy that they can eat until their teeth rot from their head. But alas, poor politicians! They can never know the pleasure ofdropping the sham. They can never fully enjoy the spoils of their victories because they have to worry about that dreaded beast that haunts their dreams and terrorizes their waking hours --reelection. 
So this year let's do something nice for our politicians. When they write you asking for some kind of contribution, this Halloween let's just send them a Snickers bar. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 


with special guest 
RATT 

The Observer \1C'ednesday, October 31, 1984 -page 3 
Former NOW leader speaks out for women 
By KATHY DOLAN 
News Stuff 
Former President of the National Organization for Women, Eleanor Smeal, spoke out strongly for the women's movement and cited Geraldine Ferraro as an example of the growing influence of women in society today during her talk given yesterday for the Thomas ). White Center at the Notre Dame Law School. 
She said Ferraro has come under more scrutiny than male vice­presidential candidates in the past. 
Smeal's speech wa.~ In part a response to a speech delivered for the White Center last April by Phyl­lis Schlafly who founded Stop ERA and Is an outspoken critic of the amendment. Schlafly contended that ERA was an attack on the famlly and also spoke against abortion, compatible worth, divorce laws, and pornography. 
Smeal spoke on "The Role of Pro­fessional Women in the American Family." She said that divorce Is a "financial disaster" for women, claiming that only 25/ offathers pay any child support, and only 7/ of alimony awarded is actually paid. 
"'lbe divorce  laws  are  a  fraud,  a  
phony,  and  they  don't  protect  
anyone," she said.  

'lbe Equal Rights Amendment was another of the topics Smeal ad­dressed. She said that 70 percent of the public supports ERA, and that women support it 2 to I. 
Smeal said the primary reason ERA was not passed was due to the extensive lobbying by the insurance industries against it. She said if Ronald Reagan is re-elected ERA will once again "take a back seat." Eighty­five percent of the Democrats in congress voted for ERA while only 25 percent of the Republicans did so, Smeal said. 
Smeal also spoke on abortion. She Is a strong supporter of abortion and said that those who share her views must "take a stronger stand and speak up in the future." 
She equated the outlaw of abor­tion to the prohibition laws of the 1900's, saying it would only cause unsafe abortions and deaths, and would be a catastrophic error which would injure females of child­bearing age. 
She called abortion the "Vietnam for women" and said "to outlaw it is to take some of their lives." In response to one of Mrs. Schlafly's comments she stressed that ERA and abortion have no connection. 
Smeal commented on Marlo Cuomo's talk here earlier this year, saying "it is improper for the church 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
eResponsible for production of news section one night per week. 
e Observer experience necessary. 
e Salaried position. 

Submit applilcations and a personal statement to Sarah or Dan by 5 p.m. Friday. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313 
The Observer Jrd Floor, LaFortune Student Canter Notre Dame, IN 46556 

NEW 5 SESSION PROGRAM 
i 

We don't know what to call this program. It doesn't have a name. But we will cover: 
f HOW TO DEAL WITH TENSION, PRESSURE, STRES t LEARNING RELAXATIONEXERCISES 
+HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR SELF-ESTEEM 
t : t t 
HOW TO FEEL BEITER THROUGH CHANGES IN WHAT YOU THINK 
Fonner President of the National Organization for Women Eleanor Smeal spoke on "The Role ofProfes­sional Women in the American Family" yesterday at the Notre Dame Law School. Story at left. 
L-----------------------~ 

to impress its wtll, through office 
holders, on society at large." 
She also said the majority of Cat­
holics do not favor the Church's 
views on abortion. "It is unlikely the 
public will elect Catholic officials 
who adopt all policies in agreement 
with the Church," Smeal said. 
During her NOW presidency from 1975 to 1982, Smeal increased membership from 35,000 to 220,000. She continues to fight for ratification of ERA, and was respon­sible for the 39-month extentiom of the ERA ratification deadline. 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
News Stuff 
The $5.5 million damage suit filed 
by Father Andrew Greeley in Sep­
tember, 1982 against James Winters, 
managing editor of Notre Dame 
Magazine, has been dropped. 
Greeley, a Roman Catholic priest and author, originally filed the suit two years ago in Cook County Cir­cuit Court claiming that Winters had 'wrongfully appropriated" the priest's private files and ordering Winters to return immediately all copies of the files. 
According to Bill Maddux, Winters' lawyer, the conflict began when Greeley called Winters a "thief, liar, and material-stealer" during an appearance on the Phil Donahue show. Greeley apparently expressed similar views in several other television appearances. 
Following the accusation by Greeley, Winters filed a S3 milion libel suit in July, 1982. The suit charged that Greeley had given him permission to examine the priest's personal files while he was working on an article about Greeley in March, 1980. 
COUNSELING & PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES CENTER 
The Snite Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
&ginning Nol)f!mber let (ThundO)I) from 3-4:30 
Suit dropped against editor of ND magazine 
Women's salaries gaining on men's will increase more in coming years 
Assodated Press 
SANTA MONICA, CAUF.-Wo­men's salaries are steadily gaining on men's and wJII increase "dramatically" over the next two decades because of job experience and education rather than political pressure, a Rand Corp. study said yesterday. 
If current trends continue, working women will earn 74 per­cent of what men do by the year 2000, the study said, calling that "a conservative estimate." 
"In 1980, women's hourly wages were 60 percent of (men's); by 1983, the figure had risen to 64 per­cent -the largest and swiftest gain" during this century, according to the study by Rand economists James Smith and Michael Ward. 
The reason for the gain is that wo­men's skills through education and work experience are increasing rapidly, Smith said. 
The study disputed a U.S. Census Bureau statistic that shows women earning 59 cents for each dollar a man makes. Ifcalculations are based solely on the wages of currently working women, as the ceDIIWI bureau's were, women's pay would be "even lower," the study said. 
However, the Rand study took into account the potential wages of the entire female population, projecting what all women would 

LECTURE SERIES 
What is Art? 
This series of Thursday night talks will examine three ofthe major movements in twentieth century art. Each lecture will cover the basics ofthe movement discussed and will be 
I 
structured to appeal to a wide audience. 
HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR NUTRITION HOW TO MAINTAIN AN IDEAL BODY WEIGHT HOW TO MANAGE YOUR TIME 
EXPRESSIONISM November 1, 1984 Professor Robert Leader 7:30pm 
Can you come up with a good name? Are you interested in a program like this? Call 239-7336 or come by the There will be a $2.00 charge for non-members 
3rdfloor ofThe Student Health Center to sign up. 
and $1.00for Friends and students ..
Limited enrollment. 
Sponsored by: 

Annenberg Auditorium 
Maddux reacted positively to the dropping of Greeley's countersuit a month ago. He concludes from the action that Greeley's argument "lacked merit from the beginning." He believes that Greeley only made the statement about Winters to "get publicity." 
He also said he feels that by drop­ping the countersuit, Greeley in­directly aided Winters in the upcoming court battle. Maddux said that Greeley's decision to drop his countersuit has not influenced Winters' original suit, which con­tinues. 
Previously, Winters' party had made an offer to Greeley to drop their suit if Greeley would retract his statements against Winters as false. Greeley, however, refused to acknowledge the offer made by Winters. 
Attempts to reach Greeley were unsuccessful. 
The date for the Winters versus Greeley trial has not yet been set. The jury will be deciding whether or not Greeley's appearance on televi­sion was defamatory to Winters. 
earn based on their education and 
work experience. 
The study said affirmative action programs that prohibit sex discrimi­nation in the work place "can easily be dismissed" as a factor in the gain. 
Legislation to prohibit sex dis­crimination was passed in the 1960s and "it strains credulity to suppose that these effects would be felt after 1980, especially in a period of budgetary retrenchment by the en­forcement agencies," the study said. 
"Women's wages have in fact risen in response to their expanded skills. 
Debate 
continuedfrom page I 
When Hesburgh founded the Cen­ter in 1961 research In the science and engineering departments of the University was thriving, but he wanted more and hoped the Center would serve as a stimulus for re­search in the humanities, Leege said. 
George Shuster, after retiring as president of Hunter College, was named the Center's first director in 1961 and held that position until 1969. 
After a few intermittent, short­
term directors, Leege took over in 
1976. Leege will step down in June, 
1985 to devote all his energies to the 
Notre Dame Study ofCatholic Parish 
Ufe. 
Roger Skurski will take over. 
Skurski is a professor of economics 
and associate dean of the College of 
Arts and Letters. 
In the future, the Center's empha­sis will be on consolidating its cur­rent undertakings so that it can have an even greater impact, Leege said. Future directions will include the GERAS program, family studies, and life-long development, he said. 
When asked why hardly anyone has heard of an organization which receives S3.1 million in federal and private foundation grants, and obvi­ously contributes much to the Notre Dame community, Leege said "Many people see bits and pieces of the Center's work, but few know that it's all correlated. I think the director should keep a very low profile so as to enable the individual scholars' work to remain in the foreground." 

The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1984-page 4 

You can be part of the greatest alliance in American business history -Electronic Data Systems and General Motors. This alliance combines the information processing strengths of EDS with the resources of the largest company in the nation. And with it comes vast opportunities for you -the kinq that business professionals can spend their entire careers seeking. 
_You're already starting at the top with our outstanding resources for growth and success. And the only way to go is up. 
We're looking for self-starters -people with the confidence to set high goals and the determination to reach them. We want to put you at the core of EDS' operations as a Systems Engineer. EDS Systems Engineers use both business and technical skills to solve complex problems for our clients. And every EDS Systems Engineer has graduated from our nationally-recognized Systems Engineering Development (SED) Program. 
The SED Piogram will prepare you for the leadership responsibilities you will have in the EDS and GM alliance. It lasts approximately 18 months and will undoubtedly be one of the most rigorous and rewarding business experiences ofyour life. You'll receive intensive classroom training, and you'll also have the chance to deal directly with our customers. You'll gain knowledge that will place you far ahead of your peers. And when you graduate, you'll have an exciting position with unlimited growth potential. 
To qualify for the SED Program, you must be a college graduate with a technical aptitude and an outstanding record of achievement. You should have a major in Management Information Systems, Computer Information Systems, Computer Science, or Engineering. We will also consider candidates with any academic major and a strong interest in business and information processing. In addition, you must be flexible .to relocate and travel. Finally, you must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Ifyou are a successful candidate, EDS will reward you with a competitive compensation package. And you're sure to thrive in our corporate environment where rewards are based on achievement -not seniority. 
TAKE THE FIRST STEP 
TOWARDJOINING THE 
GREATEST ALLIANCE IN 
AMERICAN BUSINESS 
HISTORY. 
Contact your college placement office today to schedule an interview with a local EDS recruiter. Or, write to: Electronic Data Systems Corporation, 7171 Forest Lane, Dallas, TX 75230. ( 214) 661-6060. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
ECS 

Electronic Data Systems Corporation 

Scary decorations were part of the dining balls' for tricks and practical jokes. julie Easley seemed J<bou/tsb dinner last night celebrating 'Devil's to be enjoying a particularlyfunny joke or maybe Ni1<bt,' the ni1<ht before Halloween which is famed they were serving herfavorite dish. 
Halloween costume contest tonight in dining hall, prizes to be awarded 
By SCOTT BEARBY Dinner Night and a Western Roun­Nov. 3 from I 0 p.m. to 2 a.m. at News Staff dup Night scheduled for Nov. 13. Senior Bar, and will consist ofethnic food, music and dancing. There will North Dining Hall Service Council President Chris Tayback be a S 1.00 charge. All students are Manager Lisa Hughes announced reported on an earlier meeting he welcome. The student govern­plans to spice up eating at the dining had with Notre Dame Vice President ment faculty evaluation booklets halls at the Hall Presidents' Council for Student Affairs Father David were distributed by Vice President meeting last night. Tyson. Some discussion at the previ­Cathy David. Hall presidents were 
"Ibese plans include tonight's Hal­ous Council meeting had taken given copies for their dorm. More loween costume contest at the place concerning the limit of a hall copies will be available at LaFortune dining hall. First prize for the contest rector's authority. Tayback said Center and Memorial Library. The will be dinner for two at "Ibe Loft Tyson wants rectors to run their booklets contain information on whik second prize will be brunch respective halls without having to what students can expect from par­for two at the South Bend Marriott, come to him for individual deci­ticular courses. Hughes said. sions. However, concerns or com­
Also scheduled for tomorrow plaints by the students will not go Completing Council business, night are Laurel and Hardy and Little unnoticed, he said. Hall Parties Chairman Duane Rascals films which will be shown in Lawrence said that Junior Parents the BC dining room. Hughes also "A Taste of the World" was an­Weekend is currently scheduled for ollllined plans for Friday's Mexican nounced at the meeting. It will be the weekend of February 16. 
\Xfednesday, October 31, 1984-page 5 
System to avert food 
crises called inefficient 
Associated Press 
PARIS-"Ibe headlong rush to res­
cue Ethiopian famine victims under­
scores what specialists call a 
disastrously skewed and inefficient 
international system for averting 
African food crises. 
"Just sending food does not stop 
starvation," said Paul McCabe, a con­
sultant for the U.S. Office of Foreign 
Disaster Assistance who specializes 
in drought reflief. 
"If you dump a lot of food into a country, no matter how needy, with­out things like trucks, spare parts, fuel and salaries for drivers, you will lose the food needed to save lives," he added. 
Dramatic footage of the effects of dead and starving people in Et­hiopia, shown on NBC's "Nightly News" last Tuesday, prompted a tre­mendous outpouring ofdonations. 
But the relief specialists say that when large sums of public and private money are hastily ap­propriated, food can be wasted be­cause it's dispatched under confused circumstances. 
Local authorities, they say, often curtail involvement by outside ex­perts essential to distributing aid fairly and quickly and supervising reliefprograms. 
Political concerns complicate humanitarian efforts. Much of the famine areas are held by rebels. "Authorities are not going to feed implacable enemies, anywhere in Africa, no matter what the United Nations might tell them," McCabe said. 
The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome maintains an early warning system, but many critize the FAO for exaggerating some situations and underestimat­ing others. 
FAO reports say l <;O million Africans are threatened by starva­tion, a figure reached by adding total populations of affected countries. 
Specialists say the actual figure is 
closer to 20 million, adding that 
overestimates make it harder to pin­
point the neediest cases. 
The problem ofevaluating the im­
pact of drought is complkated by 
uneven reporting, and political con­
siderations, of local governments. 
When drought again struck the Sahel region in 1983, Gambia, tiny and well-organized, quickly re­ported its needs. Upper Volta, in f.tr worse shape, landlocked and reeling from a revolution, was silent for months. As a result, Gambia was listed as Africa's third worst case. Upper Volta was 23rd. 
Some governments rely on the outside world to make up food shortfalls automatically, while using their own budgets for arms pur­chases orsuch luxuries as a reported whiskey shipment Ethiopia ordered for national celebrations. 
Yet others, such as Botswana and Zimbabwe, marshal their meager reserves to buy needed food on the international market. 
When governments neglect food 
production and distribution, donor 
nations must decide whether to help 
or to make local governments face 
up to their responsibilities toward 
their own people. 
"Of course the government should have done something ear­lier," remarked a Catholic mission­ary in Upper Volta, who asked not to be identified by name. "But now mothers and babies are dying. Do we let them starve?" 
Specialists note, too, that socialist experiments in African agriculture have led directly to ma-;sive crop failures, far beyond the normal ef­fects of recent droughts. Countries such a<; Angola and Guinea, with rkh soil and good rainfall, have suffered dramatically. 
McCabe cites Ghana as an exam­ple of what authorities and local market forces can do. 


·················Thelri&·ii···GarCieii&··~··········· = 
I 
i
Hours: 
i 
Dial 283-4242 to place an order 

Order corsages and wrapped flowers in advance C ~ -,..-..Two days notice required for corsages 


--..--1
..........................................................................................". 
130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 
277-4519 
FREE DELIVERY 


-------------r-----------­
wednelday SUnday
I ~ 16", 1 Item ~ 16"". 1 Item I $6.95 1 $6.95 1 
Collboofore11 C411bf>lore9,JO
I I 
EXPIRES 10/31/84 I EXPIRES 11/2/84 I 
-------------L------------~ 


Free Shampoo! Pamper yourself with our precision stylecut. Take home a bonus bottle of professional shampoo. This week only, $13.50 
YOUR FATHERS MUSTACHE 
Family Hairstyling University Park Mall 277-3770 
The Observer 
r 
r r 

OPEC spokesman and Indonesian Oil Minister Subroto an­
every member of OPEC," Subroto,
nouncing that "some progress bad been made"in trying to con­
chairman of the emergency
vince Nigerian Oil Minister David-West to go along with the 
meeting, told reporters.
production cuts proposed by the cartel. 
Voters in four states to decide on nuclear-free zones on Election Day 
Associated Press 
Election Day may bring widespread proliferation of nuclear­free zones when voters in California, Michigan, Oregon and Washington decide whether to ban atomic activi­t ties in their communities. The number of counties and r municipalities with nuclear-free zones would increase to more than 75 ifall the measures pass, accordingf to Albert Donnay, who directs an or­r ganization called Nuclear Free 
r America in Baltimore. In addition, two states have sched­uled votes relating to disposal of nu­clear wastes: -an initiative in South Dakota would require voter: approval before the state could allow a nuclear dump site within its borders or even join a regional waste disposal compact. -proposition B in Missouri would enact laws limiting the size ofutility rate increases and prohibit utilities from charging consumers for nu­clear power plants until federal and state governments establish a per­manent disposal site for high-level nuclear wastes. The measure could affect two nu-
Center 
continuedfrom page 1 
was not against education, he was against abuses (ofstudent loans). He was behind giving student loans for those who needed them." 
The questions on foreign policy dealt with Central America, the Middle East, and defense, particulary arms control. 
Both representives agreed that America needed to maintain a strong interest in Central America. Healy said Reagan would continue to sup port the freedom fighters and "continue to protect and provide for the roots ofDemocracy." 
Brogioli said the nation "must maintain moral authority," but also mentioned that the first time America had gone against the inter national court was under the Reagan administration. 
-~-~------~­
Wednesday, October 31, 1984 -page 6 

Nigeria refuses to cut production 
Associated Press 
GENEVA, SWITZERLAND OPEC maverick Nigeria yesterday resisted joining its cartel partners in cutting oil production, jeopardizing a tentative agreement to defend OPEC prices. 
After a two-hour session of the 13 OPEC oil ministers behind closed doors in Geneva, Indonesian Oil Minister Subroto told reporters "progress has been made" toward a formal agreement on how to share a production cutback. 
The ministers agreed in principle Monday to reduce the daily produc­tion ceiling of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries by 
1.5 million barrels to 16 million, starting tomorrow. The cutback is intended to shore up oil prices by reducing supply. 
But a major threat to the arrange­
ment emerged during a morning ses­
sion when Nigeria argued that 
economic hardship prevented it 
from joining in the deal. Subroto in­
dicated that Nigerian Oil Minister 
Tam David-West was told every 
member must share in the sacrifice 
ofoil sales. 
David-West had told a news con­
ference before the start of the talks 
Monday that it would be "suicidal" 
for his country to cut output by even 
one barrel. 
"We listened ... but on the other hand I think we try to show that what we do should be carried by 
clear plants, Union Electric Co.'s Callaway unit being built in central Missouri and the Wolf Creek plant being built in Kansas by several utilities, including Missouri's Kansas City Power and Light Co. 
Initiatives on nuclear-free zones have captured the most ballot slots on atomic issues nationwide. The impetus for the nuclear-free zones comes both from the anti-nuclear power and the nuclear freeze move­ments. 
Proposition TT on the Santa Monica, Calif., ballot is a charter amendment that would ban the de­velopment, testing, production, maintenance, storage, transporta­tion or disposal of nuclear weapons or weapons components. 
It also would ban applied nuclear research within city limits, a ban which would affect about 10 com­panies, including the prestigious Rand Corp. research institution. 
Voters in Ann Arbor, Mich., home of the University of Michigan, will consider a charter amendment that would prohibit "the design, re­search, development, testing or pro­duction ofnuclear weapons." 
lf approved, a public commission would be created to review all federal Defense and Energy Depart­ment research contracts. 

A citizens' initiative in Washing­ton state's Whatcom County would prohibit the production of nuclear energy for commercial or military use and ban nuclear waste storage. 
And in Oregon, voters in eight counties and two communities will decide whether to ban nuclear in­dustries within their borders. 
There also will be advisory votes cast on nuclear-free zone questions in three other communities. 
Voters in the heart of California's wine country will decide whether to ask the Napa City Council to ban the "production, transportation, storage, processing, disposal or use" of nuclear materials in town. 
Measure C is only an advisory measure, but strong approval by voters will almost certainly affect city council members who are ex­pected to vote on the initiative if voters back it. 
Washington state's Skagit County has an advisory vote, sought through the County Commission, on whe­ther a nuclear-free zone should be adopted. 
·In m~ 1oh ou the.· fir~l \auunil.l Kanh. of Ch~ta~u. Iam \'llll":<~\antl) u~m~ tht• kl\11\\\t·d~t· acqmn•d thnlU~h m~
LAWYER'S • 
paraJe~altra1nin~ al HIIIISC.'\t'll .. ·--\Ill\ Hnll bUtt'' \\ tlJ, .md rru'b t.r.tdUol.it·
ASSISTANT: ·­
A GROWTH CAREER FOR THE 80's 
Training as a Lawyer's Assistant can give today's college graduate a valuable edge in the job market. 
Entry-level positions in the Chicago area pay as much as Sl2,000 Ill Sl'i.OOO-and some paralegals arc now earning as much as S32.000. It takes just three months ofdaytime study (six months in the evening) to prepare tiJr a 
career as a Lawyer's Assistant. The program at Roosevdt l'niversity is the largest A.B.A.~ approved program in Illinois. and its record of graduate employment assistance is 1hc he>t there is. 
Recruiter will be On campUS !'lovember7, 1984 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE 
BROCHURE CALL (~12) 341-3882 OR
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY  
l.awyer'sAssistam Program  • \.  
"130 S. Mtchtgan Ave.  ~  
Chicago. Ill. 6060'i  ..  

~I'!h~:t~~~~~r~~,~:~i~t~r for Potrakgal Training Please send me a copy ufthe Roosevelt Lawyer's Assistant Program catalog. 1am interested in the 0 Chicago or 0 Arlington Heights location. 
:>;amc 

:.:.:Ad::.:d:o.rc-_,----------­
1 

:.c''-'-"-----------­
:::''"""'"'-"______...::;Zi:~:_P____ 
:..:11-"'om::.:<c.:."P-"-ho::cn::c<__________ 
~Bu=s::.:i"~"~~~~·h=""="----------­
Approved tor V.A~ and Ill. state 
9
(luarantt'cd Loans 

"'"""~"' "".'"'" '"m"'"'''""'""""'"'"""'"
j '"""'du.Jnu·<il.md~ilhuuH<""""""'""·'"'"'·''""""' 
The OPEC ministers decided that they must cut production to reverse a downward trend in oil prices that intensified with Nigeria's 52-a-barrel price cut Oct. 18 following similar cuts by non-OPEC members Britain and Norway. 
It is expected that Saudi Arabia -OPEC's biggest producer-would ac­cept the biggest cut in its produc­tion quota, currently 5 million barrels a day. 
The plan to limit OPEC produc­tion in the face ofan expected rise in oil demand during the winter heating season is designed to save OPEC from the second cut in its prices in 19 months. 
The first cut was in March 1983 when the cartel reluctantly dropped its price by $5 a barrel to the current official level of S29. 
Industry analysts say a drop in OPEC's production ceiling to 16 million barrels a day could rescue it from a price decline this-winter. But many doubt the cartel's more hard­pressed members could resist the temptation of pumping more than their share of oil when demand picked up. 
lf such cheating proliferated, prices would be expected to start falling again. That would make it even more likely that OPEC would be forced to cut its prices by spring whe~ oil demand usually declines. 
Tor Meloe, chief economist at Texaco, Inc., and one ofmany indus­try officials watching the OPEC emergency talks, said a ceiling of 16 million barrels a day "will have a bite by the middle ofNovember." 
1 
He said prices would start rising again, assuming the ceiling was strictly observed by all members. He declined to comment on the chances ofthe cartel mustering such discipline. 
An hour after Subroto's announce­ment, however, Gabonese Oil Mini­ster Etienne Guy Mouvagha Tchioba told reporters, "Up to now there isn't yet a formula. There are several formulas that are in discussion." 
Also, Fawzi Shakshouk, the newly appointed oil minister of Ubya, told reporters that Nigeria, Iraq and Iran would not cut production because the three were "special cases." He did not elaborate, but Nigeria is suf­fering a severe economic recession and Iran and Iraq are at war with each other. 
Egyptian Oil Minister Abdel-Hadi Kandil said Egypt would announce a "symbolic" production cut in the "next few days" and it was his under­standing that Mexico also would reduce its production. Neither country is a member of OPEC, but both countries have official obser­vers at the Geneva meeting. 


THE COMMITIEE ON PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 

MASTER'S/Ph.D PROGRAM IN PUBLIC POLICY ANALYSIS AND MANAGEMENT 
Mr. Steven Wheatley, Dean of Students, will be on campus to discuss the program and career opportunities. 
Tuesday, November 6, 1984 ll:OOam and 2:30pm Memorial Library 

Please call Career and Placement Services, 239-5200, for more details. 
Interested students with any major are welcome to attend these meetings. 
Study policy issues including: Urban Fiscal Stress, Health Care, 
Housing, International Trade, Economic Developement, Taxation, 
Regulation, Federalism, Welfare, Energy, Arms Control, Immigration, 
etc. 


Halloween Costume Party 
Tonight 10/31/84 1st Prize Men &Women $25°0 each Numerous Consolation Prizes 
Watch for November Specials 





Graham Nash and David (Josby performing at the ACC Monday night 
Stephen Stills sings "Critical Mass" 
Crosby, Stills and Nash receive applause the old-fashioned way 
-they earn it 
Kevin Williams 
features staffwriter 
C
rosby, Stills & Nash played to a large, cooperative crowd at the ACC Monday night. "Jbe concert featured many of the group's old favorites, some new songs, and new arrangements ofa few old tunes. 
lhe show began less than 20 minutes late .. a rare occurence for a rock concert·-when Crosby, Stills & Nash took the stage without benefit ofa warm-up band. The crowd responded immediately as the first chords of"Love the One You're With" were played. 
The first halfof the concert featured two of the group's old hits, "Chicago" and "Just a Song Before I Go," and several new songs. In­cluded In the opening half were three songs from Stephen Stills' solo 
album,Rtgbt by You. 
Crosby, Stills & Nash brought along their five-piece backup band featuring keyboardlst Ken Pollard from the band Poco and Including Domer Mike Finnegan on keyboards and vo~als. 
The band took a short break after playing 40 minutes, and when they came back, it was without the band ·-just Crosby, Stills, Nash, and a couple acoustic guitars. By far, the 
highlight of the show was the clas· sic "Suite Judy Blue Eyes" which is what brought the crowd into the show. 
The band came back for a rendi· tion of the old favorite "Winchester Cathedral" complete with stained· glass windows projected behind the stage. 
The concert closed with another oldie, "Wooden Ships," but the audience wasn't satisfied. Crosby, Stills & Nash returned on stage and launched into what is probably their best-known song and biggest hit, "Teach Your Children." Again, the crowd got their chance to sing the chorus, though it sounded like half the audience sang "cry" instead of"dle" for the second verse. 
Without a doubt, the concert's second half was bener than the first. The band was good, but Crosby, Stills & Nash was simply better that Crosby, Stills & Nash and the band. 'Ibis is not to imply that the first half was a disappointment ·-far from it. The entire concert ranks as one of the best that Notre Dame has seen in a while. 
Likewise, the new arrangements ofsome of the old songs didn't seem as good as the original ver· sions. In particular, the new ar· rangement of"Chicago" -·more up-temp than before .. didn't seem to match the mood set by the lyrics. The music was very good, but it just didn't seem to fit. 
The newer, less-familiar songs were very good. A piece consisting ofan a capella choral composition by David Crosby, "Critical Mass," and a save-the-whales piece by Graham Nash, "Wind on the Water" were probably the best examples. "Critical Mass" features an ex­tremely good harmony ofthe indi­vidual voices, while "Wind on the Water" is a very stirring piano ar· rangement highlighted by a syn­thesizer part that sounds at times just like the seashore on a windy day. 
~-·" ., ..• •.·.

;N-ash: "We've grown up a littla1 
, _ ,,,.~ ---------------.
_...... .. ' "'· 
. ' '".DayllgbtAgaln andAilies: rwo4+· <
by Kevin Wi Iiams *i·so•otrtheftrst(l}bum~tbe ··: 
features stajf writer 0~ • autobiographicat"Wasted onthe. \.\. 
--~~~~---..______..__________lll!lll!!!!!i.' ·Way" and "Southern Cross" ""tnade',' 
' ib'aveidways only written ';,; ..wttti"t& reSponse ~;;~:bid io : • ~=~~~:i~~~t!=:a::;,. 
songs that affect people's 
eam and minds and rdlect the environment that's happening around us."In a telephone Inter­view withTbe Observer last Wed· nesday Graham Nash asserted that a·he group's philosophyhasn't 
changed since the 1970s bdore Crosby, Stills&. Na..<lh went their sepante ways. "Whcnever we've spoken out against Injustice or things that are happening in today·s world that affect children's futures, we write and ISing about it." 
Crosby, Stills & Nash will have the opportunity'to sing, as their '-urrent tour continues through C..hristma..<~. Na.'lh commented that the band was extremely pleased their tour, sin<:e the group has not released an album recently, and bas no songs currently in the Top 40. "We're doill8 new arrangements to $Ome of the old songs to make the concerts interesting w both us and 
the audience." 
When asked about how Crosby, Stills & Na..'lh have changed as indi· viduals since the break-up, Nash responded, "Well, I think that M:'ve grown up a little. We've learned to deal with each other a little better." 'lbe rea..wn cited for dbibandJng the grvup was friction between the members. 
Since Crosby, Stills & Nash got back together nearly three years ago they have released two albums, 
or February w beginworkon a new album. / . . , . . · · ·· ....~. · 
Stephen Stl.lls bas released a solo album,Rigbt ~Y You, and Graham Nash has finished work 00 his own album that i$ due to be released 
soon. 

crosby, Stills aNash wasn't alwafll Cr08by, Stills & Nash. The group has also been Crosby-Nash and Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young. When asked about the possibllity of worldtli with Neff Young agin, Nash said that the group was st:Ul open to the idea but they bad no immediate plans to that effect because Young js currently busy with hl$ own '~ music. 
Wednesday, October 31, 1984 -page 7 
Southern Hospitality 
Marc Ramirez 
features staff writer 

T
he signs flash metallic green as the car flies past. "Ihe headlights 
shine out into the night, cutting along the dotted lines of the 
interstate. Flatlands ofgreen to the left and to the right fade off into 
darkness. 
Suddenly there is evidence ofcivilization. Lights. Traffic. 
McDonald's. But it is only Kokomo. 
Onward the car drives. More flatlands. lbe road begins to curve 
occasionally. Until, at last, there is the bridge. And underneath the 
bridge is the river. 7'be River. Acros~ the river, highrises and hotels 
pretty themselves in the reflection of the Mississippi. 
Louisville. 
"Ibe car is back on the road again the next day, tracing a winding 
path in the daylight that lead-; through Nashville, around Memphis 
and toward Jackson, Mississippi. It is a long trip, but it goes 
smoothly. 
"Hey, can we stop somewhere? I've gotta go to the bathroom." 
"I've heard this stupid Stevie Wonder song about ten times 
already." 
"Isn't there anything between Memphis andJackson? Anything at 
all?" 
''I'm serious, guys, I've really gotta go to the bathroom bad. 
Could we_ like, maybe stop somewhere? Like the side of the road or 
something?" 
Jackson 94. Jackson 40. Jackson II. Jackson "i. Then off the exit, 
past the fairgrounds, and Into the sights ofdowntown. Banks and 
hotels. City haiL The governor's mansion. The red light district. 
Jackson. 
Two days later, the car speeds toward its true destination. 
Though the point is near, an air ofcalmness surrounds the car's 
passengers. 
"Do we have any idea where we're going to stay yet?" 
"How long is this bridge? I've gotta go to the bathroom." 
"/jutb called · to thay · /love youuu .... " 
"I swear, ifStevie were here I'd wring his neck." 
lbe bridge stretches across thirty or so miles ofswamp and 
marsh. Only the tops of trees are visible to the sides. There are very 
few exits. No turning back. And no way for highway patrol to hide. 
The car speeds along at 8"imph. 
Marshland. Houses built on riverbanks. Lake Pontchartrain 
gleams as the sun begins to disappear beyond it. Past the lake the 
swamp ends abruptly and a small cluster of trees separates it from a 
road where traffic hurries back and forth. The outer limits have 
been reached. It is a beautiful moment. 
"We've reached the outer limits! We've passed the swamp that 
ended abruptly and the small cluster of trees that separated it from 
the road where traffic hurries back and forth! 
Then, the city. Colorful houses. Downtown hotels. The 
Superdome. New Orleans. 
Check-in is made at a cross-town Holiday Inn. The next 
destination is set: The French Quarter. 
When you leave the Holiday Inn East to get to the French 
Quarter, you have to go left on the Chef Highway and then turn left 
where you see the signs telling you to stay on 10, and then get to 
Broad Street and turn right. From there you pass a whole bunch of 
lights until you get to Canal Street 
Canal Street. Lights everywhere. A city in itselfofstores, shops, 
office buildings and restaurants. The traffic passes on either side of 
a median on which a trolley travels every so often. More lights. 
Color. People all over the place. Farther down Canal are the hotels. 
The Hilton. The Marriott. The Sheraton. 
The car is parked and the trek made to famed Bourbon Street, light bulb capital ofthe world. Everything is lit up, demanding attention. All kinds ofpeople are scattered in all kinds ofplaces. Jazz plays loudly from various doorways while signs beckon people to come in. So much to see, so much to explore. What does one do first? 
"Do you suppose we could find a bathroom around here?" 
Topless/Bottomless hangouts advertise their offerings: "IF YOU ARE OFFENDED BY NUDITY, DO NOT ENTER" Is as subtle as it gets. Elderly women stand outside and joke about what they manage to see. Break-dancing and tap-dancing kids, used to It all, try to pry the attention away from the spectacle with some fancy footwork. 
One doorway is crowded with a pair offemale Impersonators apparently attempting to appear seductive. Souvenir shops selling every New Orleans T·shirt imaginable, except the one you really like, are so numerous that some are side-by-side. Every restaurant posts its menu in the window, drawing many to try their crawfish, shrimp, catfish and gumbo. 
From the corner of Bourbon and St. Peter, the Maison Bourbon blares good jazz, preaching loudly its dedication to the preserva· tion of jazz, although ifyou want to come in and sit down, you simply must have a drink for the mere price of S3.7"i. At the opposite corner the Embers allows interesting observation of tht· nightly activities from its balcony, which personallyI found to be the better deaL Apart from the drinks being cheaper at the Embers, you couldstill hear the music from the Maison Bourbon, and that's what I think, if you want to know the truth. 
Then, ofcourse, there's Pat O'Brien's. lbe Hurricane. "Ibe Cyclone. The Purple People Eater. "Ibe Daiquiri. Lynchburg Lemonade. The Crawgator. Nitroglycerin. And every so oftt•n, you can find a little Skylab Fallout. But enough about drinking, because you know what happens when you drink, right, kids? 
Well, besides that. 
You have to go to the bathroom. 
, 
, 
, 
,., 
~ 
,
,
,
,
,
, 
., 
., 
, 
., 
, 
, 
,
, 


View~_O_l_·_n_t________
w_ed_n_esd-ay._,o_c_to-be_r3_1,-19-84-p-ag_e_s 
The WHC deserved a piece of the pie
r 
r r Remember the third world meals that were 
served two weeks ago? The dinners consisted"r ofvegetable soup, brown rice, bread, and tea. r These events helped to raise the student r body's awareness of the world hunger crisis. r The World Hunger Coalition deserves a round r ofapplause for its efforts. r A few days after the meals, however, many r people were shocked to learn that the WHC 
did not receive a cent from University Food Services. Most people had previously thought 
------------------couldbebad for the World Hunger Coalition; Andy Saal after all, it is a charity. Does Hickey under­-------------------stand economics better than us common · 11 "d people? Would such a donation promotepartla Y paranOl world hunger instead of solving it? I think iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-Hickey meant to say was that donating any fair 
, 
,. that the coalition would receive a donation from UFS for each person attending the spe­cial dinners. Since the World Hunger Coali­tion already receives a dollar per person in its weekly fast program, it was natural to assume that a similar donation would be made for the third world dinners. More than 6,800 people ate the rice dinner on the two nights offered. Apparently, not many knew the dinners were only for personal experience, not a monetary
r 
donation.
r 
r Well, just why was no money contributed to the World Hunger Coalition after the third
r 
world dinners? William Hickey, University Food Services Director, said that even though the dinner appeared less expensive than regu­lar food, no appreciable amount ofmoney was saved. Right. 
,. 
r 
Which candidate do 
r 
r 
r 
r the people trust?
r 
r 
r 
In the end every presidential campaign
r 
comes down to the question of whom the 
r 
people trust -or don't.
r 
r Barnstorming through the back farm country Walter Mondale kept repeating his
r 
plea of"trust me," and exhorting the rural folk 
r 
r to stage another 1948 Harry Truman phenom­r enon and storm into the polls from nowhere r and rescue him. r It is unsurprising for a losing candidate to r pray for a voting miracle. It is stranger to have r the commentators profess their bafflement 
r 
about why the winner should be winning.
r 
Yet in the rare in-depth studies of voters
r 
over time, as in a Wall Street Journal study of
r 
r 
r 
i Max Lerner 
~ The Lerner column 
blue-collar workers, the bafflement is dis­solved. Favoring Reagan in 1980, moving r away from him when they were jobless, they are closer to him than ever now. The major
r 
reasons? They have jobs and a new "pride" in
r 
America's world position.
~ 
r These add up to trust. This is even truer of 
r the prime election phenomenon of 1984 -the enthusiasm of the youngest voters for the 
f oldest American president. It sheds light on the support of the "ethnics," and even of workers and women voters. The commentators are baffled because they see Reagan as primarily a right-winger. They fail to view him as a national leader who had managed to find the cement to hold his strange coalition together, while Mondale ­the professed coalition politician -cannot. Reagan's ideology does play a role, that of 
e ewpol•nt
VI 
P I•
0 JCY 

L--------..:..~·....l..: .. .:..·..:.•·..:.·..:·...:·:....·:...;..________ ._.•::;...:~-•• .l!a.s)~r91;Jsl!t~rr~r:i~a back from a position of
,.:..;•:..•:....:..•.:.·..:·.:•..:·~·:..;•:...;•~ ...;.:...;·..l•..l':...•:...:...•·.:..·..:.·..:.·•...:··..l·•._..:...• 
Forgive me for being so absent-minded. After working in a supermarket for three years, how could I forget that brown rice costs as much as meat? Silly me. Just how could that dinner have been as expensive as a normal dinner? Did UFS fly the rice in from India just for the occasion? 
Hickey went on to say that "to donate money out of this (UFS's) budget would be bad for both the coalition and us (UFS)." Sound puzzling? I'm sure that everyone else is also wondering how a monetary donation 
amount of money per person would have been bad for only UFS. 
More than six thousand students ate the rice and soup dinner. They could have eaten a normal meal at the other dining hall; but, they chose to experience a small part of third world life. The students of Notre Dame were willing to try to do something about world hunger. It is too bad that their own food ser­vice was too worried about profit to help the students' effort. 
Even a modest contribution would have been graciously accepted. Even ifthe rice and soup dinners did cost as much as normal, UFS should have at least matched the students' ef­fort. After all, it is a tax write-off. 
AndySaal is a sophomore in the College of Science atNotre Dame. 
making him appear steadfast, even for those (like the Baby Boom youngsters) who dis­agree with his rightist stand on the "social is­sues." This is what happens when the image of a national leader reaches beyond his detailed positions. 
Roughly, there are two kinds of leaders in a democracy. One is the protean leader -a Hubert Humphrey, Lyndon Johnson, Jimmy Carter, Walter Mondale. He changes and adapts to time, circumstance, interest groups, while he pleads for trust from each and talks about what it means to be a leader. 
The second kind has little self­consciousness, does little shifting ofpositions and even less explaining ofself and asking for trust. Harry Truman belonged here, and among Republicans Dwight Eisenhower and now Reagan, although he is less liberal than either Truman or Ike. 
Both candidates today are appealing to Truman's memory. Reagan undertook a pretty contrived trip on Truman's whistlestop cam­paign train. And Mondale invokes Truman's precedent in coming from behind to win in 1948 -although Truman was the incumbent then, as Reagan is now. 
Neither man is Harry. And even Harry, most ofthe time, didn't have the trust ofthe people. As 1948 was his bight point, 1984 may prove Reagan's high point. 
But for better or worse, Reagan is what he has been, which begets trust. That is why his stumbles and excesses have not destroyed him. There are not great meanings in him, as there were in Franklin Roosevelt. The people vote for him as an existential fact, and the media commentators who are baffled by it are out of touch with the people. 
(c) 1984, LOSANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 
Viewpoint wants to bear from you. Ifyou have an opinion, brillant insigbt or humorous comment concerning anything appearing in The Observer just send a let-tertoP.O.BoxQ. 

BUILO 5ATfLLITf ~Nl51~ WARS TEC~O­WE4PONS! / t~t~ TOT~E RUSSIM\~? \ YO~ NUlS? . 

Brown student explains suicide pill referendum 
AGfr I FEEL TERR\fiG! 
I/ IT~ NOT~ IS~Ut! 

J u 

I am a member of the Brown University group, "Students for Suicide Tablets." Much of the publicity has distorted our message, by emphasizing the word, "suicide." For exam­ple, a New York Times headline read, "Students to Vote on Suicide." It is important that our ideas be understood. 
Our referendum, passed by a 60 percent majority, requests that "suicide tablets be stocked at Brown's Health Services, for optional student use in the event ofa nuclear war." This is not a suicidal or defeatist ap­proach to the threat ofnuclear war. It is aimed at dispelling the notion that we could survive such a holocaust. Suicide pills negate civil defense. In a nuclear war, there is no defense 
by half, there would still be enough firepower

James R. Knebelman 
with which to destroy ourselves. Better rela­tions with Moscow are essential. This means guest column more than simply meeting with the Soviets. It entails, among other things, a re-evaluation of 
(unless, perhaps, you are a general or a presi­dent, with access to deep undergound shel­ters). Hoping for survival is dangerous, because it makes the idea ofnuclear war more acceptable, and thus increases the chances that it could occur. 
Many Brown students voted for the referen­dum to express their fear and despair, in a purely symbolic way. Others actually want Brown to stockpile the pills, because they consider the threat of nuclear war a very real one. Would the idea of suicide seem so 
· bizarre, if you were dying a slow, painful death from radiation sickness? It would be more akin to euthanasia. Would it be dangerous to stockpile poison on a college campus? Well, the chemistry building at Brown is already chock-full of deadly substances, including cyanide, that could be used by some un­balanced person to harm himself or others. Suicide pills could be secured in a vault, and would pose no danger. By stockpiling real pills, we would emphasize that nuclear war is a real threat. The missiles sure are real. 
Is stockpiling suicide pills tantamount to ac­cepting nuclear war? Hardly. Who wants to kill themselves? Most ofus don't. By equating nuclear war with suicide, we are urging people to stop itfrom happening. What can be done? Well, a mutual, verifiable freeze on the production of nuclear weapons would be a 
start. Ronald Reagan's strategy of"negotiation from strength" has accomplished nothing. Why would the Soviet Union want to decrease their nuclear weapons stockpile while the U.S. is increasing its own? Reagan claims that he weakness to one of strength. This is mislead­ing. The United States has never been strategi­cally weaker than the Soviet Union. We have been at parity with each other since the sixties, when we lost our strategic superiority. What Reagan really wants is to restore Ameri­can superiority (this is exactly what an outer space "defensive" system would do, if suc­cessful). But this will not increase our secur­ity. On the contrary, it is de-stabalizing and dangerous, not to mention draining on our economy. Superiority is dangerous, because it promotes the idea that a "victory" is possible, and, like hoping for post-war survival, it in­creases the chances that a nuclear war could 
occur. 
But arms control is not enough. Even if both sides cut their stockpile of nuclear warheads 
our position in the world vis a vis the Soviet Union and the Third World. Should we con­tinue to confuse internal popular revolutions with Soviet expansionism? Why did the Ad­ministration smother (for six months) a gov­ernment report stating that the Soviets are not controlling Nicaragua? Our dogmatic, in­flexible approach to leftist governments is, ironically, pushing these countries towards the Soviet Union, and developing new oppor­tunities for a conflict that could end in nuclear war. We must correctly evaluate when our se­curity is being threatened, and when it is not. And we must not only stop the anti-Soviet rhetoric, but also communicate to Moscow our sincere desire to co-exist in peace. This may seem naive to some, but it is less naive than equating greater numbers of missiles with greater security. 
These ideas are not new and they are only some of the ways in which to avoid nuclear war. But the Reagan Administration has done nothing in this direction. The purpose of re­questing suicide pills for use after a nuclear war is to show the urgency of the problem, to show that students are afraid, that they con­sider nuclear war a distinct possibility in their future, and that they consider such a war un­endurable. The government must discard "defensive" star-wars weapons projects and dubious civil defense plans. We must act now, before a war is started, to prevent nuclear suicide. 
james R. Knebelman is a senior at Brown University and a member of "Students AgainstNuclear Suicide," the groupformerly known as "Studentsfor Suicide Tablets." 
•.' ',' 'r •' ._.,,. 

"ieVVP.~O~i~n~t-----------------------------------------W~e~d=ne=s~d=ay~,~O~c~to=b=e=r~3~1~,~19~8~4~2p=a~ge~9­
P.O.BoxQ 
A winning tradition off the football field 
IJear Editor: 
Often in the pa.~t month I have heard the football team referred to as "losers," and I must admist often it was I who said it. However, regardless of the performance or record of the team, today I witnessed the true character of our players shining brilliantly. 
Today was the most enjoyable lunch I have had here in two years, and it had nothing to do with the food. My pleasure was totally the result of a young man we have all come to know and love -Allen Pinkett. 
Upon leaving the lunch line, Allen was en­gulfed by a group of fifth grade students who were visiting the campus. As the children were ushered away, Allen sat down to eat his lun<:h with friends, but the children no longer cared to pay attention to their food. They ar­ranged themselves in a long line and one-by­one approached Allen for his autograph. 
After watching Allen Pinkett sign autographs on napkins, papers, and even arms for the better part oftwenty minutes, and after watching the glow on the faces ofthe children when they left after shaking his hand, I forgot about our football record. For the first time I knew what made Notre Dame so special -its pt·oplc. I was finally proud to be an "Irishman," because it finally meant some­thing. 'Inc "winning tradition" of Notre Dame can never be destroyed a~ long as gentlemen likt· Allen Pinkett are our representatives. 
!'or all the complaints that have been issued a~otainst (;erry l'aust, one cannot he issued. <it·rry l'aust teaches his players to be Jo:Cntlcmcn. And perhaps it may not win us all of our football ~otames, but perhaps it is win­ning us evt·n more. 
Thomas Coppolo Stanford Hall 

The ND soccer program series of humiliating failures in foreign policy 
has proven itself 
IJear l:'dtlor: 
I read with ~otrcat interest the article by Phil Wolf, "Soe<.:cr Team Must Prove Itself." Al­thuuJ.tb I no longer am coaching at Notre Dame, I have attempted to stay close to both the players and the program and would like to offer some observations on the contents ofthe writing. 
First, Wolf totally minimizes the contribu­tion that the sucn·r program has made to the Athletic program at Notre Dame. Our records ovt·r the years wen: and are a great tribute to tht· hard work, dedication and spirit of the many players who participated in varsity soc­ct·r. ·Inc record of wins and losses is replete with many cxcitin~ot contests against many fine tt·ams. Along the way, there were some disap­pointments and some close losses to Nation­ally ranked teams -and some great and dramatic victorks -likt· the dedication game and upset over St. Louis; the win over UNC­Grccnsboro. when they were National Cham­pions; and a great "get even game" with nationally rankt·d Wheaton College. 
'JbrouJ.thout the many sea.~ons, our players nevt·r complained that they were competing against Division I teams with significant schol­arship aid. '!bey played their best against all typt·s of competition. Our players practiced eight months out of the year, travelled in vans, ate Big Macs and <:ompeted for the sake of compt·tition · and for a love of Notre Dame. Over all these years, all ofthe coaches worked without pay and none of our kids received book.~. tuition or scholarship help. 
It may also be said that recently, many of us fdt that our contribution, our dedication and our legitimate goals were being Ignored by the powers in the athletic department in favor of other programs which were much less competitive and which had not proven their potential, a~ had the Irish Soccer program, on the field ofplay. 
The Notre Dame Soccer team need prove nothing. Its members proved each and every day they competed that they well deserved to wear the Notre Dame monogram. What needs to be proven is the fairness and dedication of the athletic program to Notre Dame Soccer. 
Wolf missed a very big point. Our team competes, wins and loses on the level that the administration wishes us to compete. On that level, there have been many great moments of Notre Dame sports history made in both ex­citing wins and disappointing losses. But throughout, the men of the Notre Dame Soc­cer program -players and coaches alike -can stand tall In the knowledge that the soccer team ha.-; proven itselfa very viable, important and winning part of the traditions that mark Notre Dame. 
Richard]. Hunter,]r. AssistantProfessor Seton Hall University 
Current blind worship endangers our society 
Dear Editor: 
One ofthe things that strikes me most about 
American politics in the last four years is the 
similarity in causes behind this newfound flag­
waving so fervently hailed by Ronald Reagan 
and his ardent supporters, and the rise of Nazi 
Facism fifty-one years ago. No, I am not a 
revolutionary Marxist-Leninist championing 
the merits of capitulation to the Soviets, but I 
do question this sweeping patriotism, ex­
pressed to me so often by well-mcaining fel­
low citizens. They feel obligated to apply their 
criteria for "honest, God-loving, true 
Americanism" to any ami every political (and 
sometimes non-political) issues of the day. 
I see many parallels between the United 
States of 1984 and Nazi Germany of 1933, 
more than there ought to be. In both nations, a 
and economic setbacks sent society reeling. 
111ink about it: we went from a post-World War II position of world superiority (both militarily and economically) to a state of high inflation and unemployment compounded by foreign policy failures in Vietnam and Iran. Germany endured a similar plight hut on a much larger scale, granted, with the loss of World War I, the Treaty of Versailles, and a horrible postwar depression. 
Please do not accuse me of saying that Ronald Reagan is Adolph Hitler reincarnate. What I am saying is that the the amount of blind worship presently given Ronald Reagan is very unhealthy for our society, and is asking 
for trouble. To say, as some Notre Dame stu­dents have, that "image" is the key, that it is important as a leadership quality in and of it­
self to the Ignorance of facts and issues, is to invite our politicians to lie and dupe us. 
john Matthews Morrissey Hall 
Student Liberation Days support a wrong image 
Dear Editor: 
As one of the medical students in Grenada at this time la.-;t year, I am deeply concerned about the so-called "Student Uberation Days" being organized on college campuses by right-wing groups, purportedly to celebrate the United States invasion ofGrenada. 
Whether my life and those of my fellow medical students were endangered by the coup that overthrew Maurice Bishop is very much open to question. It Is clear, however, that our "liberation" by the Reagan Adminis­tration came at a terrible cost: dozens of young American, Cuban and Grenadan lives. 
111at is a fact that the people organizing "Student Ubcration Day" may not want you to know. Nor may they want you to know the course they'd like to see our nation follow in other parts of Latin America, namely such places as Nicaragua, El Salvador and Hon­duras. 
If American troops are sent to those countries as some would like, they won't be facing a few hundred glorified policeman and Cuban construction workers as they did in Grenada. They won't be fighting on a sunny tropical island, as they did in Grenada. 
If American troops are sent to Central America, it's more likely they will fight thousands of well-trained soldiers and gueril­las willing to give everything to defend their homelands and their ideals. 
As in Vietnam, American soldiers will face the uncertainty ofwhether the peasants in the village before them arc friend or foe. They will battle again in scorching heat, dense and hllly terrain and unfamiliar territory. 
Polls show that most students, as well as the majority of Americans, want peace in Central America through political and diplomatic means, not more bloodshed through clumsy and misguided American intervention. If the organizers behind "Student Liberation Day" mean to suggest through their mindless celebration of the inva.-;ion of Grenada that students support military adventures on be­half of unpopular and repressive dictators in Central America, I suggest they ask students first. 
Instead of celebrating the liberation of stu­dents, their actions only encourage the decimation of students. The publicity from their rallies, ifnot countered immediately, en­courages the worst tendencies ofour govern­ment to believe it will be politically acceptable to send us off to war. 
111cy should recognize, as El Salvadoran president Jose Napolean Duarte has, that hundreds ofyears ofpoverty, exploitation and despair arc at the roots of the conflict in Central America, not the struggle between foreign ideologies. They should recognize, as most students do, that it only hurts the prospects for peace when our government supports those who have the most to gain by continued bloodshed: the contras in Nicaragua and the government-tolerated death squads in El Salvador and elsewhere. 
There still is time to act before our govern­ment sends us on a hopeless mission in Central America. Regardless ofthe foolishness ofthese right-wing "Student Liberation Days," let us ensure that our country not repeat the mistakes of the past by getting involved in an endless war on the wrong side of the battle. 
Morty Weissfelner St. George's Unir,ersity School ofMedicine Class of 1987 
Mondale is a candidate of the brain and soul 
Dear Editor: 
Several recent polls have revealed that the majority of Americans disagree with Ronald Reagan on specific issues such a.~ the environ­ment, defense, the deficit, and social spend­ing. Issues are the "brains" of politics, but it seems as if the majority of Americans lean toward President Reagan because his vision of a strong America appeals to the soul. We would like to suggest that Walter Mondale should appeal to the brains and the soul of voters, especially those of us in the ND/SMC community. 
Loyalty is the soul of politics. Many of our 19th century Irish ancestors spoke dispar­ingly ofthose who "took the soup." They were referring to those who gave up their highest values (renouncing their Catholic faith) in return for the material rewards (food) offered to them by the British during Ireland's potato famine. Many of us may be denying our an­cestral loyalty in a similar, more subtle, man­ner. It goes something like this: "Why should I care ifthe number ofpeople living in poverty has increased recently (reversing a 20 year trend)? Wby should I care if the unemploy­ment rate remains at its high level? Rea~otan's policies are benefitting my family right now. Why should I support Mondalc?" 
Wby? Because in looking out for our short­term economic well-being we are denying the legacy of our anl·cstors. Here, our ancestors arc predominantly ethnic Catholic im­migrants. On arriving in America, they turned to the Democratic Party as the party of the poor, the minorities, and the working man. Denying the heritage of our ancestors is not merely an abstract action, it is also denying our ancestors' vision of an America that i~ strong because it look.~ out for the interests of the least among us -the worker, the poor, the minorities -as well as the upper classt·s. "Trickle down" economics would he a slap in the face to those who believed in an America that was stronger in the long run because it looked out for the weakest ofits members. 
The Mondalc/Fcrraro ticket is loyal to our ancestral vision of a strong America, a clear alternative to the Reagan version of strength based on massive arms build-up and domestic neglect. That is why, despite dark predictions of a Reagan landslide, we will "light a single candle" by voting for Walter Mondalc, a man who will make America truly strong. The can· didate of the brain and the soul. 
Thomas]. Warth john M. Magill St. Edward's Hall 


.... 

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor............ Michael Sullivan Production Manager . ........ Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor .............. Mary Healy commun1ty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
I 
Wednesday, October 31, 1984-page 10 

.,. ­
Sports Briefs 
Student basketball ticket applications should 
arrive in the mail this week. Any student who has not received an 
application by Thursday should contact the ticket office at the ACC. 
Applications and payment will be collected next week according to 
the following schedule: seniors, Monday; juniors and students in 
their ninth semester or higher, Tuesday; sophomores, grad and law 
students, Wednesday; freshmen, Thursday. Distribution will be from 
3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day. ·The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will be meeting for a scrimmage this Sunday, Nov. 4, at 1 p.m. on Cartier Field. -The Obseroer 
The women's novice crew team will be 
meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in LaFortune. Members should bring their checkbooks. -The Obseroer 
The men's novice crew teamwill be meeting 
tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. -The Obseroer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will sponsor a 
nutritional program seminar this Sunday, Nov. 4, at 2 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All are welcome to attend the seminar, which will be conducted by the Shakley Corporation ofIllinois.-The Obseroer 
Stepan Center court time may be reserved by any interested club or organization. Representatives should request times in the Student Activities Office on the first floor of LaFortune by this Friday, Nov. 2. -The Obseroer 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables is being sponsored by NVA this Sunday, Nov. 4. Trips will leave at 10 a.m., 11:30 a.m., noon and 1:30 p.m. Ifyou have put your name on the waiting list or are interested in signing up, bring $5 to the NVA office to cover transportation and rides. -The Obseroer 
"F"tn F " 
1 ess ocus, a monthly newsletter published by Non-Varsity Athletics, is now available. To place your name on the mailing list, call the NVA office at 239-6100. ·The Obseroer 
NVA's Century Club is a program of exercise a~d fitness in which participants set their own exercise goals. For more information, contact the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -The Obseroer 
Men's tennis takes second at tourney 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
In their last action of the fall season, the Irish men's tennis team took second place in a tournament at Ohio University last weekend. 
The Irish opened the tourney by defeating Eastern Tennessee, S-4, but they lost their second match to Kentucky, 6-1. Notre Dame closed out the tournament by defeating host Ohio, S-4. 
The Irish were paced by the singles play of Tom Grier, who won all three of his matches. Strong play also was turned in by Paul Ghidotti and Joe Nelligen, both ofwhom won two of their three outings. 
The team also benefitted from strong doubles play, a weak point in earlier matches. Doubles teams won two matches against Eastern Ten­nessee and three against Ohio. All of the doubles matches were close. 
Head Coach Tom Fallon said he was pleased by his squad's second­place finish. 
"The teams we played were a good representation of the type of teams we'll play in the spring from the Big 10," Fallon said. "These matches were a good chance for some of our new faces to gain some good experience." 

The Ohsert•er Notre Dame oltkt'. located on the third floor of Lafortune Studt·nt <:ent<:r. accepts classified adn·rtising from') a.m. until 1 p.m.. Monday through friday. 7he Ohsert•er Saini Mary's office. lm·att·d on the third floor of Haggar Collegt: Center. accept' dassifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until .~p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadlint: f(Jr nt·xt·day dassit1eds is .~ p.m. All dassifit·ds must ht: prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents p<:r fivt: chara<:· 
Classifieds 
las ~:r day. 
NOTICES  PITT BUS RIDERS: I left a Gimbel's shop­ping bag with a birthdey present and some albums (they can be identified by  PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 HEYII You don't -nNI-thOMguya  Hey SAMBUKA lovers, identify your· selves! · the painters of the golden dome helmets  Mlchlg~~nRacap touring It's raining again ... ;mud mask picl<up; the  WALSH JESUIT 19840HIOAAA STATE CROSS COUNTRY  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. TYPING Jacl<ieBoggs 684-8793  !heir skips) on !he bus when I got off a! SMC. If you happened to take il with you, please call Stephanie at 284-5526. Thanks. ...................... LOST: A TAN, WHITE, AND OLIVE JACKET. HAD A FEW TOO MANY IM­ pl8y Penn Slatal I don't althar-but my lrillfld !rom PSU -nta 1o glom•.. So ull me your STUDENT TICKET 1o PSU n-. You'IIIMI better lor 11. Call kal1h 3345.  THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A MA­TURE RESPONSE MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK  shrine claims one; postcard pies; wading under the bridge; poisoning pigeons; fudge?! skull-less cave; shoelace man; "Are you shy?"; "I don't want any of !hal!"; customs & the search; cnuks; fakelore • Paul I love you anyway; 2 lor 1 (gecuzi & bar); Paradise by the dashboard lights;  CHAMPIONS St. Gov't. Lobby Commission reminds you: MAIL YOUR ABSENTEE BALLOT THIS WEEK  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. GOVERNMENT JOBS. $18,551  •  PORTS AT CORBY'S AND LEFT IT THERE THURS.,OCT.11. IT MEANS ALOT TO ME! PlEASE CALL JIM AT 3444!!!  Boy do I need Penn Stare GA'sl! Yesiree, 4 of 'em. If you can make my day call Stan at 2452. Make !his Pennsylvania boy happy.  Paul, I hope you make it to the golf course, not just the putting green on your next try. I heard you handled your clubs well out there.  waking up a! the SB Dunes; Phil (that 4 lehers can sey so much); "oh well!"; next vacation • New Zealand... , free flowing fountains; lake the long way home ...  . Jane Wymann was right, Dearest wolfie, I'm shattered. I'm heart  brokf!ll.  I'm  
$110,553/YEAR. NOW HIRING. YOUR AREA. CALL 1105-aHIOOO EXT. 11­11834. PRO-TYPE Specializing In dissertations,  FOR RENT  DEAR DOMERS: I need 4 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL JOE  ooooooooooh my, it's !hat guy!!!!  Happy Halloween Pete! I'll be by to pic!< up !he treats tonight! -the other perfect person  howling with grief. But does she know what happens to you when the moon is full? -an understanding Lowande  
law papers, resumes and stu den! papers 2n·5833 Wordproceaaing and Typing. 272-8827 TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117 $$CASH FOR TEXTBOOKS $$ PAN­DORA'S BOOKS 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 233-2342 Students interested in receiving the com­puling newsletter By!ellne should call Betty Praldet at 23~5934 to get on the mailing list St. Gov't Lobby Commission reminds you: MAIL YOUR ABSENTEE BALLOT THIS WEEK CHICAGO TRIP! SUNDAY, NOV.4. SPONSORED BY SOCIOLOGY CLUB. $20.00 INCLUDES BUS TOUR AND MEAL AT ETHNIC RESTAURANT. SIGN UP NOW IN THE SOCIOLOGY OFFICE· 3250'SHAG.  ROOMMATE WANTED FOR MALE STUDENT. $135 MONTH INCLUDES UTILITIES. 705 RIVERSIDE DR. 28~ 1605 WANTED Boston area families seek quality childcare in exchange for room, board, and a competitive salary. Please contact Kate Goldfield at 617 ·332-6056 or Beth Ingram at 617-Bn-n39 or write to The Family EXchange, Inc., 25 Lakeview Ave., Newton, MA. 02160. NEEDED!!! Part-time retail sales person­nel for CORNERSTONE. Seeking warm, gregarious individuals who enjoy selling family active-wear. Hou~y wage $4.00. Apply in person at Buyer's Marketplace,  1933. PLEAAASEII HELP! I NEED 4 PENN GAa ... CALL SUE 38432 Need lots of tickets to Penn Stale SEU them to me! Call 3811 for an offer. Don't start talking about bowl games yet 2 NAVYGA'S4 SALE. PAUL2119 PERSONALS HEY SMC SOPHS GHOSTBUSTERS costume S.Y.R. is this SAT. Nov. 3 Get psyched and buy your tickets through your hall reps !his week. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  IGUANA WOMAN! Hope you had a fantastic break. Did you meet any Liard men? In case I saw you, friday was such a good time. If I didn't, then sorry I couldn't make iltothe concert. (You see. I'm writing this before break I) Friend of Iguana Woman P.S. Bruno warned me to stay caught up for !he rest of !he semester or else he was going to send Spike after me. CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR CTHULHU or· gan. mtg. For info call Picl<man x1487. Theo rNijora and o1har ln1-atu­danla: Don't miN 1ha ~latlon by two membara 01 the Theology Forum­Gary kopyclNikland Au..McDoug~~IJ­·tonlghU110 pm In 341 O'Shag. ATTENTION JUNIORS HOLLOWEEN BARN BASH II WED. OCT. 31 TICKETS $5 ON SALE IN THE DINING HALLS 4:30-6:30 TUES.& WED. TICKET PRICE INCLUDES TRANSPORTATION  MIAMI U. of OHIO: Anyone driving there this weekend? If so, we both need a ride. Will share usual. Call Cathy or Jennie at 4042. NOTRE DAME HOCKEY This Friday and Saturday a! the Ice Rink against Penn State. Support your loclll hockey team to victory! Students FREEIIIIIII HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11pm FA-SA 8pm-tam SKI SKI SKI CHRISTMAS SKI TRIP lo Steamboat Springs, Col. MEETING in LaFortune, Utile Theatre. TONIGHT Oct. 31, 7:00p.m. costume: optional.  Kevin Your skills on !he green are to be well noted! Thanks for being such a son and showing Dad a great time! Dinner sometime, eh? -Szan Werewolf, let's talk about the Council banner. Wed.11:00P.M.altheGrotto Come Alone!I! G.K. Joe. PUT ON YOUR RED SHOES AND ••• DANCEII ProgrMalva Mualc Club eponaora a chance to diUice In Chau18Uqua Ballroom thla SATUR­DAY, elartlng .t II p.m. F-lor PMC marnbara, $1 to theg....,.l public. But HEY-flrat 50 a1 the door are In FREEl See ya !hera, Wlll8rd. POMI-Happy 19th GLB,Love-SMGW TUNE INI WILLIAM MAPOTHER AND  
5901 North Grape Rd.  BUSES LEAVE NO CIRCLE 8:00PM  BOB KAEMMERLEN WITH TWO MYS·  
SAFE TO THRASHIll  TERY GUESTS WVFI AM640 TONITE 7·  
SKI SKI SKI  9  
LOST/FOUND .............................. LOST! LOST! LOST! 16" GOLD HERRING-BONE NECKLACE EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE! REWARD IF FOUND CALL 1647 PLEASE!  SKI ASPEN FREE! NO coordinator needed for student trip to Aspen. Free !rip ft substantial commissions. Phone collect today 215-387-4955 evenings. NEED RIDE TO MIAMI U this weekend maybe rentacar call Bob 2n-os11 THE GIPPER IS DEAD AND BONZO'S IN THE WHITEHOUSE.  UNDERWEAR REJECTORS UNITE NEED TICKETS to Penn State. Parents want to see first NO football game. Hey, they're my parents, what can I say. Please sell me 2 GAs, or I am in the dog's house. Call Maureen at 1333.  I know that this sounds wierd, and I prob­ably should have spoken up sooner, but I feel silly about the whole thing. Anyway, what happened was I went to Fartey's SYR a couple of weeks ago, and some­how came back with two different sized shoes. So, il you were being wild in rm 233 and are now missing a size 1O·C brown loafer, give me a call at 1504. Of course, no names will be revealed, we must retain  URBAN PLUNGEIII URBAN PLUNGEIII URBAN PLUNGEIII REMINDER ORIENTATioN WORKSHOP THIS SUNDAY FROM 1 :30 TO 3:30 IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM. BRING YOUR LEARN­ING AGREEMENTS AND FIVE DOL­LARS.  REPUBLICANS!!! U.S. CONGRESSMAN JOHN HILER SPEAKS TODAY AT 4:00 IN LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE. QUES· TION AND ANSWER SESSION TO FOL· LOW. MEET AND QUESTION A LEADER OF THE "NEW RIGHT"!!! Julie Claaaaark: Beware of Geeks in Cub  
Still Lost--A black jacket with "South Side llalien" written on back and "Carrie" writ· ten on frontPlease return--l'm cold!!Call Carrie284·5172  WANTED: New Leadership for America. FOR SALE  RUN WITH A FAST CROWD I NO women's track is now getting under· way. Stay tuned for more details and results. Hey, lets get psyched for the CAN-AM GAMES in Ontario, January '85!!!  our pride (even though we can't hang onto anything else.) Women'a Track TNm  P.S. • BAING SOMETHING TO WRITE WITH!II URBAN PLUNGEIII  Scout Uniforms. PASTA'RIA WINDY CITY SPORTS EM­PORIUM HAUOWEEN PARTY Come join the fun Oct 31. 9pm--DJ Dancing! Costume Contest' Yukon Jack Specials! Dart Tournament' Air Guitar Contest! ST  
Susan has lost no! only her lailh in Ronald  Practice begins Wednesday, October 31,  URBAN PLUNGEIII  AD. 23-Just south of Ironwood 272-4935  
Reagan but also her' Sony walkman. You  Penn Slate  at 5 p.m. on !he indoor track a! the ACC.  URBAN PLUNGEIII  ....................................  
....  may ask. why has this faithful follower of Ronnie loSt her faith? Because since she  '81 GS450Suzuki, E.C., Includes helmet, suit and gloves. $700.00 or best offer.  Penn Slate PENNSTATEI  Meet outside the weight room. All inter· ested are encouraged to attend. There  FIND OUT WHERE YOU ARE GOING  ARMY ROTC  ROTC ARMY ROTC DORM RECRUITING  ARMY THIS  
lost her walkman in the ACC !he Friday  288-3020.  All I ever wanted were 3 G.A. tickets to  will be a meeting and light worl<out.  FORTHEPLUNGE!II  WEEK  AND  NEXT!!!!!  SEE  YOUR  
before Oct. break, she was better off than  PannSiala.  DORM REP. ON HOW YOU CAN APPLY  
she was four years ago. Now that her one  If you have them, call Mary at 1333.  Feeling like I ought to sleep.  GO  TO  THE  ORIENTATION  FOR 3 AND 2 YEAR ROTC SCHOLAR­ 
possesion  which  placed  her  into  the  This layout room is sinking deep.  WORKSHOP  THIS  SUNDAY  FROM  SHIPS.  
"upper class" (that is, Reagan's class) is gone, she can identify with those who are  TICKETS  Join !he Anne Club. Go to an expen­sive SYR, spend two hours in the bath·  Searching for something to say, Waiting for the break of day.  1:30 TO 3:30 IN THE UBRARY AUDITORIUM. BRING $5, YOUR  ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC  
poor.  If  you  can  help  Sue  find  her  room,  and then bag your date before  Should I try to do some more ?  LEARNING AGREEMENT, AND A PEN.  SEE YOUR DORM AROTC REP ABOUT  
walkman (and help the President gain  midnight Hey, Anne, how was that party  25or6to4  HOW YOU CAN APPLY FOR 2 AND 3  
ANOTHER vote). call2612.  NEED 2 Penn State G.A. 's. Call 3537!!  at Stanford, anyway?  !he production staff  YEAR AROTC SCHOLARSHIPS  

The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1984 -page 1 1 
Sports staff meeting 
There will be a mandatory meeting of all mem­bers of the Observer sports staff on Tuesday, No­vember 6, at 6:30 p.m. in the Observer office. Anyone who would like to write sports for the rest of the year must attend. If, for some very good rea­son, you cannot make the meeting, contact Mike Sullivan by Monday afternoon. The coverage of winter sports will be discussed as well as improve­ments in the current coverage. 
DAILY SPECIALS 
Antojitos Mexicanos (Appetizers) Gratis 7-10pm 
WE HAVE CARRY OUT AT 
Joins N.L.'s Sutcliffe 
Hernandez gets A.L. Cy Young 
Old Milwaukee 
so~/glass 
$2.50 I pitcher 
COMMONS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Willie Hernandez, whose near-perfect relief pitching played a major role in the Detroit Tigers' drive to the World Series championship, was named yester­day the winner of the American League Cy Young Award as the league's best pitcher. 
The Puerto Rican left-hander, who joined the Tigers in a trade with the Philadelphia Phillies just before the 1984 season, had 32 saves in 33 save opportunities, five more saves than he had in a mediocore seven­year career in the National League. 
He combined that with a 9-3 won­lost record and a 1.92 earned run average as the Tigers coasted to the AL East crown, then went on to win 
AT FIVE CORNERS OPEN 12 p.m. to 3 a.m. 

r-----.::_----........-~-::­
---db~~ 
I ---.:;--=-·----;:-

----~1··. (\' -.. -­
c;)·-(···111
\·I . -... ­
ill~ ~~~{~~~~~?~~
---:~~-:--:-:-:....:-:~:-:--::.-:.·:-t-:-:.,;:-:-_ 
Our Open House can open up aworld ofcareer opportunities foryou. 
THURSDAY, (NOVEMBER 15) from 7 to 9 PM Morris Inn, Alumni Room 
Plan to attend. Several of our Technical Managers will be there to talk with you. Refreshments will be served. 
Harris is a leading producer of state-of-the­art communication, information processing and microelectronic products for the world­wide information technology market. That's probably one of the reasons why we consis­tently ranked among the top 25 employers in the recent Graduating Engineer Employer Preference Survey. And when you come to our Open House and On-Campus Inter­views. we'll be glad to tell you about all the other reasons. 
Today, Harris is a Fortune 200 company with sales of $2 billion. And the outlook for tomor­row IS even more promising. Career open­mgs ex1st with Harris at various locations in Florida. New York, California and Texas. We are interested 1n meeting candidates at all degree levels in 
Electrical Engineering 
On-Campus Interviews Friday (Nov. 16) 
See your Placement Office for details. 
We are an equal opportunity employer. M/F/HIV 
U.S. Citizenship is required for employment with our Government Systems Sector 
~~~HARRIS 
the playoffs over Kansas City and World Series over San Diego. Her­nandez saved the third and deciding game ofthe playoffs, then added two more saves in the World Series, In which he had a 1.69 ERA. 
"It's incredible," said Hernandez when he heard the news In Puerto Rico, where he lives in the offseason. 
"I was one of the keys to Detroit winning the world championship and that's the reason," he added. "I feel like I won the award for the people ofPuerto Rico." 
The voting was based on regular­season performances. 
Hernandez, who will turn 30 on Nov. 14, had 12 of the 28 possible first-place votes and 88 total points to edge another relief pitcher, Kansas City's Dan Quisenberry, in the balloting by two baseball writers from each of the 14 American League cities. Quisenberry, who had a 6-3 record, a 2.64 ERA and 44 saves as the Royals won the AL West, had nine first-place votes and 71 total points. 
Bert Blyleven, who posted a 19-7 record for the Cleveland Indians, was third with four first place votes and 45 points and Mike Boddicker of the Baltimore Orioles, the AL's only 

Irish 
continuedjrompage 16 
place. John Magill also displaced scoring runners from other con­tending schools by capturing 24th place. 
Coach Plane explained that the team ran well and the meet was ex­citin. He then detailed the main rea­son for Notre Dame's success. 
"Tim Cannon ran well in finishing second, but Dan Garrett and Bill Courtney won the meet for us," Piane stated. "They passed three Purdue runners at the four-mile mark and stayed ahead of them to the finish, which allowed us to win." 
To qualify for the NCAA Meet the Irish must finish among the top four teams in the NCAA District IV Meet 20-game winner, was fourth with the other three first-place votes and 41 points. Each first-place vote was worth five points, with three points for second and one for third. 
Rick Sutcliffe of the Chicago Cubs was named the National League's Cy Young winner last week. 
Hernandez, who on Monday exer­cised his option to demand a trade by the Tigers, becomes only the third relief pitcher to win the award in the American League. Rollle Fin­gers of Milwaukee won It In 1981 and Sparky Lyle of the New York Yankees won In 1977. 
Hernandez joined the Tigers on 
March 25 along with first baseman 
Dave Bergman In exchange for 
catcher-first baseman John Wock­
enfuss and outfielder Glenn Wilson. 
During his seven years with the 
Phillies and Chicago Cubs, he had 
posted a 34-32 record with a 3.72 
ERA and 27 career saves. 
Others receiving votes in the Cy Young balloting were the Tigers' Dan Petry, who got one second­place vote for 3 points; Frank Viola of the Minnesota Twins, two third­place votes for 2 points; Detroit's Jack Morris, 1; and the Toronto Blue Jays' Dave Stieb, I. 
on Nov. I 0 at the University of Illi­nois. The district Includes the Big Ten Conference, the Mid-America Conference, part ofthe Missouri Val­ley Conference and the Midwestern independents. 
District IV may be the toughest district in the country. In the most recent national coaches' poll six of the district's teams were In the top 
20. Notre Dame's main competition should come from Wisconsin, Mic­higan, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio State, 11­linoL'i State, Ohio University, Miami of Ohio, and Western Michigan. 
Notre Dame has run consistently all year and displayed fine team· work. llte Irish must continue to run like they have all year to qualify for the NCAA's for the first time in Plane's ten-year career at Notre Dame. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 

'st' ~t~bfC~tJ2~!!'~ 

$1.00 off any pizza. $1.00 One coupon per p1zza. 
Off Fast, Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 

--~
-
-

The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1984 -page 12 
Franco Harris released by the Seattle Seahawks 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Franco Harris, the Na­tional Football League's No. 3 career rushing leader who helped the Pit­tsburgh Steelers capture four Super Bowl titles, was released by the Seattle Seahawks yesterday. 
The surprise announcement was 

made by Seahawks coach Chuck 
Knox the day after Seattle posted a 
24-0 victory in San Diego on na­
tional television. 
"Franco Harris and I had a long talk and we kind of mutually agreed that it would be in everyone's best interest if we released him," Knox told a news conference. "He made a contribution to our football team. It may not be reflected in the statistics, but he gave us a big lift when we needed it and he's really a class guy. I wish him well." 
Harris carried the ball only three times for three yards against the Chargers. He gained 170 yards, a 2. 5 average, in 68 carries in eight games for the 7-2 Seahawks. 
Harris, 34, played 12 seasons for the Steelers, but was released by them in a contract squabble this year. He was signed by the Seahawks as a free agent prior to the second 
Bird votes 
game of the regular season, alter Curt Warner suffered a season­ending knee injury in Seattle's opener. 
Harris, considered a sure bet to make the NFL's Hall of Fame, reportedly signed a one-year con­tract at S500,000. However, his cnn­
tract was not guaranteed and he will be paid only through the San Diego game, a club spokesman said. 
Harris was not immediately available for comment. 
Knox, in his second season as the Seattle head coach, refused to say anything critical about the 6-foot-2, 225-pound Harris. 
"I don't really want to get into problems," he said. "What transpired -we just agreed it would be in the best mutual interest to release him. 
"Obviously, he wanted to make a bigger contribution to what we were doing and we were hoping that he could, and it was very tough on him coming in here like he did, with the system intact and everything." 
Knox  said  Harris  would  be  
released today.  
Asked  what  Harris  had  to  say  

about his release, Knox replied, "My statement covers that." 

By releasing Harris, the Seahawks made him available to the NFL's other 27 clubs. Asked whether Har­ris had indicated he wanted to try to play for another team, Knox said, "We didn't get into that." 
Hughes, a fourth-year fullback from Boise State, carried the ball 10 times for 36 yards Monday night. 
Harris leaves Seattle with 12,120 yards in his career. He trails Walter Payton of the Chicago Bears and Jim Brown, who retired after gaining 12,312 yards with the Cleveland Browns. 
In addition to being only one of three players to rush for more than 12,000 yards, Harris is the NFL's all­time leader in 1,000-yard seasons with eight, including a 1,000-yard season at Pittsburgh last year. 
Harris holds the NFL career record for rushing attempts with 2,949. He holds or shares 24 NFL records and is second in all-time rushing touchdowns with 91 behind Brown's 106. 
He has played in seven Pro Bowls and was the most valuable player in Pittsburgh's victory over Minnesota in Super Bowl IX. 
NBA All-Star ballot announced 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOliS -Larry Bird, the National Basketball Association's most valuable player a year ago, took a look at this year's All-Star ballot yesterday and asked, "Can I vote for myself?" 
That Bird will be chosen to the Eastern Conference All-Star team for the 1985 game in the Hoosier Dome seems a pretty safe bet. But the 6­foot-9 forward, who led Boston to the NBA championship last spring, also wants to get some other Celtics in the Feb. 10 game. 
"I voted for all my teammates, of course," Bird said after a news con­ference announcing the seating con­figuration that is expected to produce a record attendance for the annual midseason showcase of NBA talent. 
Ninety-six players -48 from the Eastern Conference and 48 from the West -were listed on the All-Star computer punch-card ballot that will be distributed at each NBA arena. Fans also may write in nominations. 
Other Celtics listed were for­wards Cedric Maxwell and Kevin McHale, center Robert Parish and guard Dennis Johnson. Bird and Os­car Robertson, a former NBA great who will serve withJerry West as an honorary captain, cast the first bal­lots. 
Bird said the selection method for the All-Stars is "good, especially when they (the fans) vote at the games. It gives them some opportu­nity for input." 
Among other players Bird said he voted for were Isiah Thomas of Detroit, the most valuable player in last year's 1 54-14 5 overtime victory for the East, and Kareem Abdui­Jabbar and Magic Johnson ofLos An­geles. But Bird, the 1982 All-Star game MVP, added, "There are so many great players in this league, you could name 20 guys on each team and wouldn't be hurting." 
Others nominated by a panel of NBA writers and broadcasters in­cluded former All-Star game MVPs Julius Erving of Philadelphia and George Gervin of San Antonio. Last year, Philadelphia's Moses Malone was the leading vote-getter with 927,779 votes from among more than 2.5 million ballots cast. Malone, nominated again this year, did not participate in 1984 because ofan in­jury a week before the game. 
Four members of the host Indiana Pacers were nominated -center Steve Stipanovich, forwards Clark Kellogg and Herb Williams, and rookie guard Vern Fleming, a mem­ber of the U.S. Olympic gold medal team last summer. 
Seven other rookies made the All­Star ballot -Chicago's Michael Jor­dan, another Olympian and college player of the year; Houston's Akeem Olajuwon, the No.1 draft pick; Sam Bowie of Portland; Sam Perkins of Dallas; Mel Turpin of Cleveland; Al­vin Robertson of San Antonio; and Lancaster Gordon ofthe Los Angeles Clippers. 
NBA commissioner David Stern, who attended a news conference at the adjoining Convention Center, said seating in the stadium, which normally accommodates more than 60,000 for football, would be ar­ranged in a "mini-dome" configura­tion that will seat about 37,000. 
The All-Star attendance record is 31,745 set in 1979 in Detroit. 


"We are pleased to announce that to accommodate a large number of fans, we will move the game to the Hoosier Dome," said Stern, noting the original site of the game was to be the 16,000-seat Market Square Arena. "But at the same time, we will be able to maintain the atmosphere that has made basketball America's game. We are very, very excited about it."' 
In addition to the All-Star game, other activities planned for that week include a slam-dunk contest, an NBA old-timers' game and an All­Star banquet. 
Tickets for the All-Star game will range from $35 to n 5 and will go on sale through coupons in newspapers in Indianapolis, Louisville, South Bend, Terre Haute and Fort Wayne beginning Sunday, Nov. 11, Pacer President Bob Salyers said. 
Now delivering Macintoshes that were ordered up to October 15. Pick up your Mac now. 
ND/SMC 
Halloween Party ! Wednesday, October 31 
9:30 pm. Senior Bar 
*Movies! 

* Palm Reader ! *Wear a costume! 
APPhow 

Franco Harris, the NFL's third-leading all-time rusher, walked out ofthe Seattle Seahawks' /ockerroomfor the last timeyesterday. Harris was rea/eased by the club in a surprise announcement. The story at leftdetails the move by the 7-2 Seahawks. 
................................................................................................. Nick and Kenny's 
Costume Halloween Party 
Wednesday Night Imports $1 75~ beers 
$50prize for best costume 
Aclauy, award-winning song and dance celebration of Duke Ellington's muaic. 
Morris Civic Auditorium-South Bend FRI. & SAT., NOV. 9 & 10-8 p.m. (E.S.T.) Ticketa: .$:Z»:ift$19.50 $14.50$10.50 SOLDOlTT Box Office Open Daily (Except Sun.) 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Telephone (219) 284-9190 MuterCard & Vi.a Accepted • Group & Student Di.counu 
The Broadway Theatre League 
P.O. Box 866 South Bend, IN 46624 
~----~---------~ 


THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. THE EASY WAY TO CALL HOME AND SHARE YOUR SMASHING SUCCESSES. 

College is great for heroic exploits. Sometimes you get all the lucky breaks. And other times, well­
Don't keep your favorite fan club in suspense. Call home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. With it, you can get in touch with your family quickly and conveniently. Without the hassle of calling collect or fumbling for spare change. And since the CALL ME Card lets you call one place and one place only-home-your parents are 
more than willing to pick up the tab. All 
your (Jhone calls home with the AT&T CALL ME Card show up right along with 
Mom and Dad's other telephone charges. 
GET ACLUE. GET THE AT&T CALL ME CARD. 
So be a hometown hero. Call home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. And let the folks know their favorite athlete hasn't forgot­ten where it all started. 
Don't have an AT&T CALL ME Card yet? Mail the coupon at right to AT&T and we'll send an application home to your par­ents. Or phone: 
1 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 50. 
-

,--------------, 
GET THE AT&T CALl ME CARD. THE BEST WAY TO CALL HOME. WHEN YOU'RE AWAY FROM HOME. 

Call I 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 50 to have a CALL ME Card application sent to your parents. Or complete and return this form to AT&T College Promotions, P.O. Box 49466, Atlanta, GA 30359. 
Your Parents' Name 
Address 
C1ty/Statc/Zip 
( ) 
Parents' Phon<' No. 
Your Name (0 Mr./0 Ms.) 
College L Check Clas~ 0 Fr._0 Soph~ 0 Jr. _:1 Sr. ~Grad.~ 
-


The Observer Wednesday, October 31, 1984 -page 14 
Volleyball team wins four straight in North Star Conference action 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
After the Notre Dame women's volleyball team lost quickly and quietly to the Boilermakers of Purdue the week before break to fall to 7-9, the rest of the season did not appear too promising. 
•Over the past week, however, the Irish won four straight games over North Star Conference foes in a very impressive fashion. These victories lifted their record to I 1-9 overall and 7-1 in the conference. 
On Saturday, October 20, the Irish ventured from home to take on But­ler. They quickly ended their three­game losing streak by sweeping the match, 15-7, 15-12, 15-13. 
The Irish did not have much time to rest, though, because on Monday they travelled to Evansville to take on the Aces. Notre Dame survived a five-game nailbiter and outlasted Evansville, 6-15, 15-8, 15-12, 12-15, 15-11. 
The Irish returned home after the 

Sweeps all matches 
victory for two more games later in the week. Dayton arrived at the ACC for a match on Friday night, but the Flyers were promptly dispatched in three games, 15-4, 16-14, 15-5. 
The Irish put their three-game winning streak on the line the next night against a tough Xavier squad, and although it took them four games, they again came away with a victory, 15-11,15-11,8-15,15-11. 
Coach Art Lambert said he was very pleased with the play of his squad. 
"The girls played very well, the best I've seen them play all season," said Lambert. "We beat some tough teams. Xavier is one of the top teams in the league. Both Xavier and Butler impressed me." 
By finishing their conference schedule with a 7-1 record, the Irish guaranteed themselves at least a second-place finish. Conference leader Loyola, undefeated in confer­ence games so far, has yet to finish its conference schedule. 

Lambert expressed great satisfac­tion over the 7-1 league record. 
"You bet I'm pleased (about the record)," he said. "The girls have made great strides and have im­proved a great deal. I'm very proud of them." 
The Irish will try to extend their four-game winning streak this weekend, as they travel to Pit­tsburgh to participate in the Pitt Tournament. 
Notre Dame will face a very tough Penn State team on Friday. The Nit­tany Lions knocked off the Univer­sity of Pacific, the nation's number-one team, earlier in the year in five games. 
On Saturday, the Irish will face host Pittsburgh and North Carolina. 
"I'm looking forward to a good weekend," Lambert said, "but it will be a difficult weekend for us." 
With an impressive performance this weekend, the Irish can take great strides toward a successful season. 
SM C tennis wins at state tourney 
By MARK B.JOHNSON 
Siltnt Mary's Sports Editor 
Finishing its fall season in a flurry, the Saint Mary's tennis team lived up to its reputation as a conference power by sweeping every individual and doubles competition in the NAIA State Tournament on Oct. 19 and 20 to capture its third con­secutive State title with 27 points. 
Runner-up Goshen finished with 13 points, followed by Anderson and St. Francis with 6, Franklin and Manchester with 5, Earlham with 4, Hanover with 3 and Indiana Univer­sity Southeast with 1. 
"Everyone played really well at State," said freshmen Susie Craig. "I think that by the time we got there, everyone was playing at the top of their game." 
By winning the championship, the Belles earned the right to compete in the NAIA Nationals in the spring, thus continuing their quest for a third top-ten finish in three years. 
"We did what was expected of us by winning the conference, and now hopefully we will keep getting stronger and will be able to finish better than tenth place at Kansas City (Nationals)," stated sophomore Caroline Zern. "It will take a lot of hard work, but I think it can be done." 
Leading the way at No. 1 singles was senior co-captain Debbie Laverie who defeated Hanover's Amy Bacon, 6-1,6-0, Goshen's Sally Hunsberger, 6-1, 6-1, and St. Francis' Tracey Johnson, 6-1, 6-1, en route to her championship. Laverie recorded a dual-meet slate of 12-7 in singles competition this season while also teaming with sophomore Mary Carol Hall in No. 1 doubles for a 9-1 record. 
Hall, who finished the fall season with a 15-4 record at No. 2 singles, breezed by Judy Freeman of Hanover, 6-0, 6-1, and Anne Ber­geron of St. Francis, 6-0,6-2, before blanking Anderson's Carole Hull, 6­0, 6-0, for the championship. 
At No. 3 singles, Zern earned the victor's title by downing Hanover's Margy Nold, Goshen's Bonnie Raber and Franklin's Julia Hodgen by scores of6-0, 6-1; 6-0, 6,1; 6-2,6-0, respectively. Zern, who teamed 
-
with senior Renee Yung for an 11-6 record at No. 2 doubles during the season, boasts an 11-3 singles slate. 
Capping an impressive 15-6 rookie compaign, Craig proved her­selfsomeone to be reckoned with as she coasted by Renate Schmalz of Anderson, 6-3, 6-0, Jen Friesen of Goshen, 6-0, 6-1, and Denise Clark of Manchester, 6-1, 6-1, to add a State championship to a rapidly expand­
ing list ofaccomplishments. 
Freshman Kate McDevitt, who did not see a lot ofsingles action this fall, came through in the clutch at the No. 5 spot as she defeated Manchester's Jill Bolze, 6-0, 6-1, and Earlham's Alaka Lindsley, 6-2, 6-0, to qualify for the finals. With the cham­pionship on the line, McDevitt proved her worth as she wore down Ann Conrad of Goshen, 6-1, 3-6, 6-1, to continue Saint Mary's sweep of championships. 
At No. 6 singles, junior Kim Kaegi showed that her 1 0-9 season mark was not indicative of her abilities as she bettered Tina Graber of Franklin, 6-1, 6-2, Mary Zehringer of St. Francis, 6-3, 6-4, and Brenda Stoltzfus of Goshen, 6-0, 5-7, 6-2, to earn the Belles' sixth individual championship. 
In doubles competition, Laverie and Hall displayed the type of play that one would expect from a 9-1, No. 1 team as they trounced Franklin's Rhonda Turner and Kim Stafford, 6-1, 6-1, Goshen's Hunsberger and Yoder, 6-0,6-3, and Anderson's Sue Sansone and Hull, 6­1, 6-3, to claim victory. 
Zern and Yung, who carried an 11-6 season record into the tourna­ment, continued their winning ways with a state title by topping Hodgen and Sarah Forgey of Franklin, 6-2, 6­1, Denise Clark and Janice Strycker of Manchester, 6-0, 6-0, and Raber and Conrad of Goshen, 6-0, 6-1. 
At No. 3 doubles, McDevitt and Casey, who had previously managecl only an 8-9 slate, rose to the occa­sion soundly to defeat Indiana Uni­versity Southeast's Kathy Hood and Karen Barksdale, 6-1, 6-3, Goshen's Friesen and Stoltzfus, 6-3, 6-2, and Franklin's Donna Walker and Graber, 6-0, 6-2, to earn a ninth and final Saint Mary's championship. 
"We did well overall during the season, and everyone played really well at State," said Hall. "I think we will do just as well, if not better, during the spring season, and hope­fully by Nationals we will be ready to go." 
"The players have shown good concentration and have put forth a good effort. They have had a sense of purpose, a sense of togetherness which is very good," stated third­year coachJohn Killeen. 
Killeen's women boast a 9-1 dual­
meet record; their only loss coming 
on the opening weekend of play 
against Butler in a match in which no 
seniors played. This record 
definitely will be challenged come 
March as the Belles will begin an ex­tremely difficult spring season to prepare for the NAIA Nationals. 

Notre Dame, Marquette, DePauw and Ball State are just a few of the difficulties tentatively scheduled for the spring, but according to Killeen, the players need this level ofcompe­tition to toughen them mentally. 
"In the spring we have a very tough schedule that will force us to go out and play every match," he commented. "It has been an out­standing year so far, but I am looking forward to the spring season." 
Killeen's optimism is echoed by his players, and apparently with good reason. The Belles have placed tenth for two consecutive years in the Nationals and are one of only four elite schools to finish in the top ten consecutively -all this while being the only non-scholarship­awarding university in the first 23 finishers ofthe 1984 tournament. 
The 1985 Nationals will serve as a real test of progress for the Belles, a test from which the results might surprise even them. 
IOUnltlldW.y 

Ocr31 
w 
Nov 1 
T 

NVA Winter Hours 
Beginning with fall break and continuing through the winter season until spring break, all recreational facilities will be open according to the following schedule. Facilities, especially the ACC, will be available subject to closing because of varsity and commercial events. 
Athletic and Convocation Center 

Monday-Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
Monday-Saturday Sunday 
Mon.,Wed.,Fri. 
Friday-Saturday 
Sunday 
Monday-Friday Saturday Sunday 
Monday-Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
Monday-Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
7 a.m.-1 a.m. 8 a.m.-11 p.m. 10 a.m.-11 p.m. 
Issue Room 
opens8a.m. 1 p.m.-11 p.m. 
ACCiceRink 
Noon-1 p.m. (free) 7 p.m.-10 p.m. ($1.00) 1 :30 p.m.-5:30p.m. ($1.00) 
Rockne Memorial 
7 a.m.-1 a.m. 8 a.m.-11 p.m. 10 a.m.-11 p.m. 
Rockne Pool 
7:15 a.m.-8 a.m. Noon-1 :20 p.m. 3 p.m.-3:45p.m. 8:15 p.m.-11 p.m. 
Noon-6p.m. 7 p.m.-11 p.m. 
1 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-11 p.m. 
Rockne Weight Room 7:15 a.m.-8 a.m. Noon-1 :20 p.m. 3 p.m.-11 p.m. 
Noon-11 p.m. 
1 p.m.-11 p.m. 




SR CLASS HALLOWEEN PARTY 
25 e beers all night costumes a must! come celebrate your last Halloween as a SENIOR 


MARGARITASVILLE 
margaritas 95 ~ imports $1.00 

Today_____________________w__e_d_n_e_sd_a_y_,_o_c_t_o_b_e_r_3_1_,_~_9_8_4__p_a_g_e_l5 

Campus 
•I 
2: I') p.m. -Lecture, "Translocation in Protein Synthesis," Prof. D. P. Burma, Banaras Hindu Uni· versity, Varanasi, India, Radiation Laboratory Lecture Hall. 

•12:30 
·3:30p.m.-Blood Drive, Student Health Center (Infirmary), Continues on Thursday Also. 

• 
3:30p.m. -Lecture, "The Entrainment Process of a Plane Shear Layer," Prof. John Foss, Michigan State University, Room 3'>6 Fitzpatrick Hall. 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Faculty Seminar Series Lecture, "Geometries of Perfection: Plato, Campandl and More," Prof. James Dougherty, ND, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by English Department. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Presentation, "Conducting YourJob Search," For All Interested American Studies and English Majors, Paul Reynolds, Asst. Director, Career & Placement . 103 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Vector Competence and Virus Ecology: New Insight and Emerging Relationships," Dr. Paul R. Grimstad, ND, Room 27H Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 

•6: 
I ') p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters International, Organization to Improve Public Speaking, Room 223 Hayes Healy, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Wednesday NightFilm Series, "On Dan· gerous Gound," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7, 
9 & I I p.m. -Film, "Psycho," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. -Film, "When The Mountains Tremble" (Guatemala), Center for Social Con· cerns, S2. 

•7 
p.m.-ISO Meeting, ISO Lounge, Basement of LaFortune. 

•8 
p.m. -Philosophy Lecture, "Explanatory Power As a Test of Reality," Prof. John McDowell, Room 124 Hayes Healy. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "St. Patrick: '\be Myth and the Man," Bishop (retired) Richard P.C. Hanson, United Kingdom, Biology Auditorium, Galvin Life Sciences Building, Sponsored by the 'lbeology Dept. 


TV Tonight 
9:00p.m.  16  Facts of Ufe  
22  Movie · Sweet Reven~e  
28  Dynasty  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  It's Your Move  
10:00 p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hotel  
34  Masterpiece Theatre  
10:55 p.m.  22  Paid Polilical Rca~an-Bush  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCC"nter t6  
22  22 Eyewitness News  

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 30 11. poet 63 Popular 13 Penlaleuchs 1 Deadly sin 31 Bond of sorts uprisings 15 Harassed 6 Picture 33 Ate greedily 64 Pilot's route 23 "Leave -to 
transfers 35 He corrects 65 Hemingway heaven" 12 Shrill noise Injustices 66 Spurn 25 "-washes the 14 Gormandize 37 Transitory other" 16 Keyboard things 26 Musical 
contrivance 41 Error measure 17 Kent seaport 46 Col. groups DOWN 28 Configurations 47 Letter abbr. 30 Actress Day
1 Certain acid 
18 "-longa, vita 
2 Sleepy fellow 32 How: Ger. 
brevis" 49 Animal teams 3 Indolent 34 Muffin19 Period In 50 Marshes 4 Active ones 36 Principalhistory 51 Term of address 5 Typos 37 Pour out20 Altar words 53 Sacred bull 6 Principal 38 Take for of Egypt 
21 Prefix for 7 Shun granted
54 Country letters 

gram or meter 8 Large fish 39 Wicker recap­
55 Worthy

22 Impetuous 9 Neighbor tacle for 
56 Fonddu­

24 Pelt of Uru. documents
58 Jap. bay 

26 Prejudice 10 Principal 40 Diminutive
59 Principal

27 Principal suffixes
11 Glut 29 Santa-61 Bit of toast 12 Uncommon 42 Spring 
I 
43 Principal 51 Clowns 

~ 
44 Harmony 52 An Osmond 45 Palestinian 55 Entertain sect 57 Firm: abbr. 48 Glass-making 60 Race furnace 62 Rubber tree 
Tuesday's Solution M E S A l'ji AC's-1'1\ 8 0 D E I 
0 LAN E LAM B I P E Di TEND A C R 0 BAT I C S! 0 V E R C H A R G E S • N A Ej 1-E.RETElllASAP IN AWASH-Cl R R I E L E E BAST E B A B AI~S~E Rl Nl S L A V ~ E S S I T A Rj11111111 S LET SUGARY  
IIH 0 B N 0 B S H E A~ IIA R ,. c D u NT 'IpAN E 11 1AMAC,MERA PLOD IfF L A R E P A A R L E T A I[A E s I R s T D s E X A M  

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Horror Week Continues with 

7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 $1.00 Eng. Aud. 
November 1, 2, 3, 4 TICKETS ON SALE NOW! 
SAB Record Store 
Tomorrow -CARRIE Fri & Sat -THE EXORCIST
Presale: $4.00 
At Door: $5.00 




---------------------~ 
~----------------------------------------------~--------------------­
S~orts 

The Notre Damefield hockey team was very suc­cessful overfall break, winning all six ofits games during the week. Here, Teri Murphy(right)faces off in action earlier in the season as teammate Regina Degnan ( 12) looks on. Kevin Herbert gives all the details of the action during break in his story below. 
Irish field hockey team wins six, takes Western Illinois Tournament 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports writer 

The Notre Dame field hockey team continued Its winning ways by recording six victories in six games over fall break. 
Goaltender Patti Gallagher was outstanding in goal, recording five shutouts and yielding only one goal in the sixth game for a combined goals-against-average of 0.16 in the games over break. 
The Irish began their fall break by thrashing Western Michigan by a score of 3-0. The game was never really in question as Notre Dame dominated play, outshooting West­ern Michigan, 32-1. 
Next the Irish pounded Hope Col­lege by the same score, 3-0, while recording a shots-on-goal advantage of22-9. 
The Irish then moved on to play Valparaiso. When asked what was the toughest game over break and why, Notre Dame coach Jill Linden­feld said "Valparaiso was the toug­hest, not because they have a lot of talent -which they do not -but be­cause of the conditions of the game. 
Still undefeated 

The field was in horrible condition, full of ruts and bumps. The officiat­ing was also poorly one sided." 
Lindenfeld also attributed Val­
paraiso's game style in the difficulty 
of the Irish victory. 

"They played a tough, very ag­gressive game throughout," Linden­feld said. "We play more of a controlled game, but their aggres­siveness, combined with the bumps in the field, made our passing game much more difficult." 
Valparaiso took the Irish into double overtime when, with 30 seconds remaining, Molly McCabe became the hero for the Irish by firing the game-winner and giving Notre Dame a 2-1 victory. 
Notre Dame next took its winning ways into the Western lllinois Tournament. To come out vic­torious, however, the Irish had to pull out three victories, two ofthem by one goal. 
Notre Dame opened the tourney by playing the University of Wiscon­sin. Gallagher was outstanding in goal, turning the Badgers away at every opportunity. In the end the 
Irish were able to come away with a 
hard-earned 1-0 victory. 
"Of all our victories over break the win over Southern Illinois was the most satisfying," Lindenfeld said. "They were a highly ranked team ­higher in fact than some teams which we lost to, Akron for exam­ple." 
Gallagher was immpressive as usual in goal, recording her fourth shutout in five games as the Irish defeated Southern Illinois 1-0. 
Notre Dame captured the West­ern Illinois Tournament with yet an­other shutout by Gallagher and a little more ammunition by the of­fense, defeating North Dakota by a score of 3-0. 
The offense of the Irish over fall break was sparked by Melissa Som­mer, who notched six goals , Corinne DiGiacomo and Molly McCabe, who each added three goals. 
"I am very pleased with our team's efforts," Lindenfeld remarked. "Our victories were a total team effort. We never gave up." 
The Irish now will take their 13-4­1 record into the St.Louis Tourna­ment this weekend. 
ND cross-country wins two meets 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame cross-country team captured first place in two large and competitive meets over fall break to remain undefeated for the year. 
On Oct. 27 the Irish won the Mid­western City Conference Meet held at the Butler University Golf Course. Notre Dame totaled only 21 points (lowest score wins) to defeat Loyola and defending champion Oral Roberts, which totaled 65 and 74 points, respectively. 
Senior Tim Cannon took the indi­vidual title with a time of 25:50 for the 8,000-meter course. Cannon's victory makes up for the disappoint­ment he suffered in last year's con­ference meet when he was not able to run because ofan injury. 
Senior co-captain Jim Tyler captured third place overall with a time of 26:08 and was directly fol­lowed by freshman Dan Garrett in 
26:II. Sophomore Mike Collins placed sixth in 26:26 and senior co­captain Bill Courtney had a seventh­place time of 26:27. 
Senior Ed Willenbrink and junior john Magill finished out of the scoring for the Irish, but each ran well and kept several runners from other teams from placing highly. Willenbrink took eighth place with a time of 26:28, while Magill finished in 12th place. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane said he was pleased with his team's perfor­mance. 
"We were allowed to enter 11 of our runners, and all ofthem finished in the top 18," Piane said. "We could have not run our top four and still won the meet, which shows that we really dominated. This was a good tune-up for the NCAA District IV Qualifying Meet in two weeks." 
The Irish have been in the Mid­western City Conference for only three years, but they have captured the conference championship two ofthese years. They won in 1982 but finished second to Oral Roberts last year. Oral Roberts, led by several foreign runners, was expected to provide again a strong challenge to • Notre Dame, but the Irish proved how strong they are this year by easily winning the meet title. 
On Oct. 19 Notre Dame soundly defeated several top teams to win the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet held at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The Irish amassed only 36 points to outdistance second-place Purdue, which totaled 48 points. Indiana captured third place with 60 points. 
Terry Brahn of Indiana took the individual championship by finish­ing about 20 yards ahead of Cannon. 
Garrett captured fourth place and was directly followed by teammate Courtney. Collins finished in tenth place, while Willenbrink rounded out the Irish scoring with a 15th­place finish. 
Jim Tyler surged past several run­ners in the stretch to finish in 18th 
see IRISH, page 11 
Wednesday, October 31, 1984 -page 16 

Halloween comes early for Irish 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Item~, 


Hello again, everybody! 
Halloween came early for Gerry Faust last week. Just as almost everybody prepared to close the coffin on the Notre Dame football team, the corpse arose to walk across Tiger Stadium and shock 78,000 howling fans by knocking off LSU in Baton Rouge. 
The victory was the best treat the Irish coach could have received this week. First ofall, it should help keep some ghoulish members of the media from asking Faust the haunting question about retirement. Rumors about a possible successor for Faust have been flying around the campus like bats in a haunted house, but that talk was silenced in the wake ofSaturday's upset. 
Secondly, it has quickly brought Irish fans back into Notre Dame's corner. For one week, at least, the only boos Faust will hear will be from trick-or-treaters and not from the masses of Notre Dame fans. The same Notre Dame fans who were calling for Faust's head a week ago are now talking about which bowl game the Irish might be selec­ted to visit. It's a simple display ofhow winning can make the band­wagon a little more crowded. 
It seems as though the Irish have managed to solve the mysterious problems which have haunted the team all season. lbe Irish dusted the cobwebs off the running game, as Allen Pinkett ran and ran and ran some more on his way to 163 yards on 40 carries. The offensive line, which had been largely ineffective early in the season, opened some gaping holes for Pinkett to scamper through on Saturday. 
The Irish haven't used any witchcraft to fix the running game, though. Instead, the Irish ground attack has benefited in the last two weeks from the implementation ofa single-back offense, which gives Faust an extra tight end to use for blocking. Defenses which were able to overload against the run when Notre Dame lined up in the !-formation now havt> to play a little more honestly, and it has opened up the rushing attack as well as the passing game. 
The balanced offense allowed the Irish to play ball-control foot­ball, but some ofthe credit must go to the Notre Dame defense. The spirits of the team have definitely been lifted by the return ofsenior linebacker Mike Larkin, who has performed quite well at the linebacker spot. While Larkin and Co. didn't exactly slam the door on the LSU offense, they did manage to hold those Tigers. 
Now the question is, have all the gremlins and goblins that have 
played havoc with the Irish this year in the form of turnovers, 
penalties, and poor execution been scared away, or was Saturday's 
performance merely a momentary exorcism? The answer may 
develop this Saturday, as the Irish visit the Midshipmen of Navy. 
It has been 20 years since Navy has beaten the Irish, and frankly, it 
doesn't look like Gary Tranquill's 3-3-1 team has a ghost ofa chance 
this year. The grinding running game which gave Navy teams the 
nickname of the "Tranquillizers" has given way to the aerial attack 
ever since Heisman Trophy candidate Napoleon McCallum suc­
cumbed to an ankle injury in the second game ofthe year. The abilty 
to throw effectively has given the Middle offense the potential to be 
explosive, and the Irish certainly must be wary. 
Leading the offensive attack for Navy is quarterback Bill Byrne, brother of Notre Dame's freshman quarterback Tom Byrne. Navy's Byrne has risen from sixth place on the depth chart at the beginning of the season to post some sensational numbers, including 1340 yards passing and 11 touchdowns. Last week, against Pitt, Byrne threw for 340 yards and helped Navy score two touchdowns in the last I :07 to tie the Panthers. 
Byrne has a frightening group ofsenior receivers who are capable of making the big play. Tight end Mark Stevens leads all receivers with 25 catches, but split end Chris Weiler and flanker Ken Heine follow closely with 24 receptions each. Look for Weiler to be espe­cially dangerous, as he has already accumulated 449 yards and three TO's on his catches this year. 
Defensively, the Middies have no monsters to combat the size of the Irish line, but they are fairly quick. Linebacker Mike Taylor leads the squad in stops with 62, while safety Marc Firlie has 54 tackles and three interceptions to his credit. 
Still, things look scary for Navy on Saturday. The Irish took offtheir ugly mask last week and put a smile on the face ofGerry Faust and the Irish fans. Now they enter Giants Stadium, a place which has been a house of horrors for Irish opponents since 1977, and the Middies must hope the Irish turn into pumpkins again. 
Hopefully, the team that gave Faust such a nice Halloween treat 
last week won't pull such a nasty trick this week. 
Pickofthe Week. .. The weather in South Bend has begun to turn bad, and that means November is just around the corner, and that means hockey. Lefty Smith's Irish leers return as an NCAA Division I independent this season, opening their new campaign this Friday under the north dome of the ACC against Penn State. 
The Irish have a wealth of talent back from a squad that posted a 23-5-1 ledger as a club team a year ago. Now the Irish are hoping they can continue their success on the varsity level this year. The test begins Friday with faceoff at 7:30. 





