Jazz Band -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 117 th<: imkpcnllcnt ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~t-r\·ing notn dame and ~aint man·~ THURSDAY, MARCH 29, 1984 


Hart, Mondale tangle over Issues, Images during televised debate 
Associated Press Hart, saying Mondale was willing to "sacrifice American lives" in a war 
NEW YORK -Walter Mondale for Persian Gulf oil, added, "1 don't and Gary Hart debated in heated and think we ought to lose American personal terms yesterday night lives fighting for someone else's oil." about the charges they had been "Don't worry about Walter leveling at one another in the ever Mondale and American lives," said intense Democratic presidential the former vice president. ''I'll stand campaign. strong there." 
Debating six days before the New He defended his stance in Central York primary, the two presidential America, saying he would "not pull candidates lost little time going after the plug" on American forces sta­each other in the nationally tioned in the region. 
televised debate broadcast from Hart has attacked Mondale recent· Columbia University. ly for not calling for immediate 
Mondale demanded that Hart act withdrawal ofAmeriqm forces from "this night" to withdraw television Central America, and said the former advertisements "that suggest I'm vice president's policies could lead trying to kill kids." to the "rather large loss" of 
Retorted Hart: "why do you ques­American lives. tion my commitment to arms con· "Why do you run those ads that troland civil rights?" suggest I'm trying to kill kids, when 
The third candidate, the Rev.Jesse you know better," Mondale said. Jackson, said, "Tomorrow the issue "I'm for peace." will be this rat-a-tat (between Hart A few moments later the former 
The Observer/Javier Ollw 
and Mondale) without giving a vice president said, "I think you
Giving life 
direction. The fact is, the reason ought to pull those ads down this
infirmaryfrom 1 to 4 p.m. through Friday. In order to 
they are having this kind ofa kinship night."
juniorStephen Smith gives a pint ofhis blood to the best circulate the blood through the body while it is 
struggle is because there are such Hart, whom Mondale has attacked
American Red Cross for use by emergency vi~7tims as being removed, the volunteer's feet are raised above 
similarities in policy. It's a matter for several weeks on civil rights and
part ofthe blood drive being held in the Notre Dame the heart. 
both running in the same direction arms control,_ said: "why would you just a little slower." .question my commitment to arms Votes on the windfall profits tax control an civil rights when you


Judicial Council discusses student 
and the Chrysler bailout legislation know I have just as strong a commit· were among the topics as Mondale, ment as you do." Hart and Jackson sat around a table The debate came less than a week 
with moderator Dan Rather of CBS before the biggest prize so far in the 

news. The network sponsored the Democratic nomination fight -the By MIKE MILLEN completely on parietals." Gleason' Judicial Council's bylaws were debate. New York primary and 252 News Staff could not reveal the details or the Ireported complete, and Gleason Hart and Mondale tangled over delegates to the Democratic Nation­
contents of the report at the noted that the proposals will be put energy policy with the former vice al Convention. 
The status of both the parietals meeting, but promised to make the i to a vote at the next council president saying Hart voted with Mondale lambasted Hart for and Du Lac reports was discussed at findings public as soon as they are meeting. Gleason stressed that a "big oil" and the Colorado senator moving too slowly in supporting a last night'sJudicial Council meeting. ready. new attendance policy will be part retorting, "He knows better than 

activity fee, parietals at meeting 
see RACE, page 6 
According to Joe Roveda, mem­The Judicial Council's position on ofthe plan. that." ber ofthe DuLac subcommittee, any the proposed $10 student activities changes would be clarifications on­fee increase was discussed. Gleason, ly. who possesses one vote in the 
"We just need to start writing it forthcoming student senate vote on 

Jackson's supporters optimistic
up," he said, noting that "it should be the proposal, voiced opposition to ready before Easter." the resolution. 

Editor's note: This is the first of He was an honor student and was Cola, 7-Up and Burger King to deal
"The parietals study is near Plans for a meeting between rec­

four articles outlining the plat­elected student body president. He fairly with the black community.
completion," said Bob Gleason, judi­tors and Judicial Council members 

forms and objectives of the can­met his wife Jacqueline there with He has been active in Chicago
cial coordinator. He said, "We have was addressed. The informal get to­

didates who will be participating whom he has five children. He politics as a supporter of various
reached a concensus on the issues. be scheduled sometime in the near 

in the Mock Convention. graduated in 1964. candidates and politicians. ThoughWe will present it at the same time as future. 
He began civil rights involvementthe Du Lac report, but it will focus New additions and changes to the 

By FRANK LIPO while in school, leading student sit­News Staff ins at segregated public places. He also was an organizer of the Young
Nineteen inmates killed 

Jesse Jackson is a legitimate can­Democrats club. After graduating, didate for the presidency. he decided to study for the ministry.

in Peruvian prison uprising 

Four months ago this statement He was ordained a Baptist minister would have been laughed at by the in 1968 from Chicago Theological the inmate-held administrative sec­
Democratic political establishment. Seminary. Associated Press tion and warden's office, using It is a statement that only Jackson He met Martin Luther King in paralyzing gas and tear gas to rescue 
and his small group of loyal suppor­Alabama in 1965 and joined his ters would have believed. Southern Christian Leadership Con­
LIMA, Peru -Prison inmates the hostages, police said. Crowds armed with dynamite and pistols gathered outside and screamed for 

Since his original declaration of ference. Jackson became one of his candidacy in November, much of key aides when King expanded his
held 14 hostages for 12 hours before police to kill the inmates. 

the skepticism has vanished. His civil rights activities to Chicago.
guards attacked with gas and bullets Early reports conflicted on the strong showing in recent primaries Jackson became the director of
to end the uprising. Prison officials number of dead. A justice Ministry said today that 19 prisoners were spokeman said eight inmates were has assured him ofcontinued federal Operation Breadbasket, the SCLC's 
killed. killed, and authorities at the prison matching funds. This, coupled with Chicago based economic arm. He at first one was was with King when he was assas­
the thinning of the Democratic field

The Directorate of Peruvian said only person from eight to three, has placed jack· sinated in 1968.
Prisons said four hostages and four killed, the ringleader of the rebel­son's candidacy in a new light. After King's death, he con­
inmates were injured at El Sexto lion. Candidatejessejackson prison in downtown Lima. There Inmates doused one hostage with Although Hart and Mondale are solidated his position as head of were no reports of any hostages kerosene and set the victim on fire s·een as the front-runners, it is a Operation Breadbasket. He was suc­never holding a public office, he ha~ 
when authorities refused to meet foolish person who ignores the role cessful in pressuring white used these political ties to influence
being killed. Luis Arancibia, a prison official their demands for two vans in which Jackson has played and will continue businesses with boycotts if they Chicago politics. 
to play in this campaign, say his sup­didn't hire more blacks and do more His recent nationwide voterwho reported the 19 deaths, said the to make an escape. Another hostage standoff began Tuesday when six was knifed repeatedly, reports said. 
porters. business in the black community. registration drive and his diplomatic prisoners seized nine prison A guard said inmates cut out the Jesse Jackson was born in Green­In 1971 he broke with the SCLC coup of securing the release of employees and five fellow inmates tongue of one of the hostages after 
ville, S.C. in 1942. He attended the and formed Operation PUSH captured navy pilot Robert Good· as hostages during an escape at­she gave a telephone interview to University of Illinois on a football (People United to Save Humanity.) manjr. have catapulted him onto the tempt. reporters from the warden's office. scholarship for one year and then As director of PUSI-I he has used the 
was as

The siege ended Tuesday night She identified Carmen transferred to North Carolina pressure of economic boycotts to see JESSE, page 6 Agricultural and Technical College. convince companies such as Coca-
when penitentiary guards stormed Montes, a secretary. 



. -......... --............. --... ---...... -------.... -____... ___ -_#,_ .. ---------........ -.... ----.................. -·-.......... ---.... --.--.. -~----·-..... ··-... -....................... ·-·· ......... ~-·---·4 --..... ­
... 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
More than $1,000 worth of stereo equipment was taken from an eleventh floor room of Flanner Hall during Spring break. according to security officials. Entry was gained by drilling a small hole in the door and opening the lock. Lost were 200 record album~. a watch, calculator, sheets, pillows and blankets. All residence halls were patrolled during Spring break, but the burglary apparently \\Tnt unnoticed, officials said, because of the minor damage to the door. -The Observer 
Anthropology in the Middle East will be 
the subject of a mini-course being offered beginning Tuesday, April -~ and endng Thursday, May 3. The course will examine social, cul­tural, and political themes in novels, short stories and poems of the Middle East. The class will he taught by visiting Fulbright Professor 
K. Kasmieh, from the University of Damascus, and Professor E. Early oftht· Anthropology dept. Students may sign up at the Anthropology office, 346 O'Shaughnessy. -The Ohsen1er 
The presidential election of LeMans Hall is 
today from 7 a.m. -6 p.m. in the llaggar College Center. Next year's Ll-Mans residents may read the platforms of the three tickets at the voting booth. Because there were no tickets during the general elcc­tion, campaigning was by word of mouth. A majority ofvotes will be ntTdnl to win instead of the usual SO percent plus one necessary to avoid a run-on: according to Election Commissioner Marie Kollman. 
-The Obsen,er 
Afl alleged participantin the March 13 holdup of the downtown Notre Dame Credit Union was charged Tuesday with another hank rohhery.lra .L. Young, 24, ofSouth Bend was accused of robbing a teller of S630 at the Ist Source Bank branch, 1502 Lincoln Way E. on March l.l. Young was identified from photographs taken from tht· bank's monitor cameras. In the credit union robbery, Young and another man allegedly fled with $4,020. -The Obsen1er 
Family members of Alumni Association Executive Dirt·ctor Charlcs Lennon were injured in Miami Sunday morning wht·n the van in which they were traveling was struck by an alleged drunk driver. l.t·nnon's wife, Joan, suffered a broken arm and his daughter Molly, a broken collar hone and toe. A DWI arrest has been made, according to freshman Shawn Lennon, who was the driving tht· van when the accident occured. -The Observer 
,Of Interest 
The American Red Cross will continue its blood drive this wt·ck at the infirmary. Donors will he accepted each after­noon from I:00 to 4:00. today, and through Friday. -The Obsen,er 
The Mock Convention '84 and Ground Zero arc 
sponsoring a panel debate and discussion on the Democratic ddt:nsc platform for next week's convention. Mike Francis, King Plkffl·r. and George Brinkley, all of Notre Dame's Government l>t-partment will he tht· featured pant:lists who will also field qut·s· tions from tht· audkncc. All state ddq~att·s arc encouraged to attend 

Cheating outcry misdirected 
The Observer is irresponsible. 
The Obsemer doesn't cover stories fairly. 
The Obsemer is about as unprofessional as a 
newspaper can be. 

These are common complaints towards Notre Dame's only daily newspaper. They arc being heard more often in recent days because ofa March 15 article this paper published concerning cheating within the University. Many students have written letters com­plaining that the article was partial and said they were offended by the statistics reported, especially those about the Chemistry 1 1 5·1 16 course taught by Prof. Emil T. Hofman. 
John Neblo's article states, "The course cited most often (for cheating) is Chemitry 1 1 5-l I 6, where stu­dents speculate that the vast majority of the class has cheated at least once and some students have virtually passed the course by cheating." 
In reacting to this article, Hofman told his class , which is mostly freshmen, that he "felt betrayed" by students who cheated on the quizzes, and walked out on the class. 
"One couldn't help but feel moved by what he said. A lot of people thought he might have overreacted. His overreactioin is understand­able, however, since the ar­ticle did make some rather hasty generalizations," said Mike Millen, a freshman who was present at the class Hof. man left. 

That Hofman was disap­pointed with alleged cheating is obvious, but the question remains as to whether The Obsemer was wrong to make such a broad statement based upon the opinions of a few students. Did the paper jump the gun on this story in order to make it more readable and interesting? 
Nearly everybody has heard ofsome kind ofcheating in Hofman's chemistry class at one time or another. Whether it is the discreet glance at the next person's paper or a review session the night before with a · hijacked quiz, the majority ofstudents who don't cheat at least know somebody who has cheated. Cheating is a problem in every class, not just Hofman's. It's a tempta­tion to anybody who has the opportunity, and oc­casionally we sacrifice our principles for a better quiz or test grade. 
But it's not up to The Observer to moralize for the student body. We in the news department try daily to objectively report the events going on around campus, from the lectures and concerts to the uses and abuses of power. This is no easy task. With no journalism school 

ALL LATEST 
DIRECT 
SALES 
COMICS 

also hard to find back issues AVAILABLE THURSDAY AT 
6:00P.M.. 

234-1038 for the 1985 DOME are available this week ~J~~CO~JU~1 in the Student Activities Office. 
STORE 1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH B!ND, 2U.1031 c,..: .....lllwn. 10.7, Fri. li-t, S.l. U lllow open Sunday 12-7 ____, 
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 
Inside Thursday 

to train our writers and editors, we learn from our mistakes and gain from our successes. 
Once in a while we make a blunder so major that we must print a retraction. Once in a while an inaccuracy slips by and we must correct it the next day. Sometimes we slip out of our objectivity and either accidently or purposely let our true colors fly in our news story. 
But there will he no retraction ofJohn Neblo's cheat· ing story. The information we received was accurate, as we understood it. 
The letters published in the viewpoint section this past week from some of the freshmen in Hofman's course complain that the reporter was unfair in making the statemen~hat 
there is cheating in hat class. Following Hof n's berating of the class, s~Jme students were so moved that they felt it necessary to publicly voice their com­plaint in The ObsProer. 
-~ 

Wrote freshman Stephen O'Neil, "The Obsemer ... -unfairly tarnished the reputations that honest stu­dents are just beginning to build for themselves .... Instead of commending Dr. 
Hofman for the work he has done by promoting honesty and Christian morality through his example to students, it unfairly damaged reputation he has built over thirty years." 
Since The Obsen1er is only trying to objectively report on cheating by what we have been told by stu­dents who take the course, perhaps it is not the newspaper that is irresponsible but the students them­selves. Maybe their consciences bothered them so much after Hofman's tirade that they thought they had to pass the blame to the newspaper. 
Maybe it's time the freshmen in Hofman's class realized that in the real wor!::l the news isn't always good, even if it's about themselves. We all make mistakes, but when we do we shouldn't try to blame somebody else for tht.m. 
APPLICATIONS FOR *Managing Editor *Section Editor 
*Copy Editor 
tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Obsen,er 
·weather · 
The weather word is 'crummy.' Becoming 
partly sunny and colder today with a high in low 40s. Partly cloudy 
tonight and Friday with a low in the mid to upper 20s. The high 
Friday will he in the low to mid 40s. -The Ohsen'er 
r The Observer 
The Obst•rver (I ..,.p..., 1)')9 l· tOOO) i' puhll,f~t·d .\lom.lon thruu)(h l·ru.b~ and 1111 honH· loorh,tll ~aiUnlay!'., C.'XlTfll dllflll!( c.·x.un .uu.l 'oll.HIIlll pc.·riod~ Th~ ()hst·rvt·r I!'> puhl1~hn.l h) the.: 'tudc.·nt' ''' Ihe.· I'ni\c:r..,il\ 111 :'\i•tlrt' l>aml' .ami :--.;11nt \l,1n ·... ( ullq~c.· ~uh"'t.·nption~ m.l) IH.· punha~c:d lur J.!'; pc.:r ~t·ar (.SI'; pt:r 'l'rTll'!\ll'r) In "nlln)( The: Oh!terver, P <) Box l.}. Norrc.·l>amc.·.lndiana ·illCi~(, 
Tht• Ohservt·r •~ .1 mc.:mht:r ot The A!'l­sodatt·d Press. All rt·produ<.:tion n~hl'._ 
:If(.' rt''t'r\'t•d .. 
Today's i~sut.• wa~ produl·c.·d hy: 

/)(•sign f.'tlitor... . ............ Su:-.an O'Hara /Jesi;(tl Assislut~f ....... MaurtTn Murphy /.uJ•o/11 Stuff.. .. Danna Schwart>man 1)'/J('S('I/ers.. .................. Carol and Ted .\'t•u•s HtiiiPr. ... Dan McCullou~h ('o{Jl' l:'ditor... .. ........John lka."ily .\jJor/.\' CofJ)' Editur... ......... Marc Ramirt.·z Vh•u'fJoinl Layout.. . . Mary Dolan NIJ /Juv litlllor...... ......... Mdinda Moore .\Me. /Jay l:tlltor... ...... MaAAic O'Conndl ,ltf /Je.<l!ill . . ...................... Boh Slota Pb,Jtograpbf..'r. ...Javier Oliva 

Attention Spring Graduates GMAC is now offering special financing under their exclusive College Graduate Finance Program Call Paul Hartman or Dennis Ward at 237-4000 for details 

JACKETS, CARDIGANS, VESTS, AND POLO SHIRTS.
--.:-.---------­
L: SEID FlU BROCHURE Name________________________ 
Address.____________________ Clty'-----------
SIIte ZIP•--------------.,... 
lun KtH1¥ lpor1••••' 

U 
212' 5 lo"aroan L•nt Al 15212 0 
The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1984 ·page 3 


..C(tQowe~tg fptt aQQ occagiong" 
Come in and Browse · 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 

VAN LINES Runs this weeliend ~·Fri.-Sat. -movies, shopping, dining ... Urii'letsity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50~ Round trip. Pay as you board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 
4:00 on Sat. 



Preservation Hall Jazz Festival March 30, 1984 8pm at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium $2 Students/Faculty $5 General Admission SMC Students Free 
Only standing room only seats left 
Preservation hall Jazz Band plays at SMC as part of concert series 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's continues its Performing Arts Series tomorrow night with the Preservation HallJazz Band Festival, beginning at 8 in O'Lauglin Auditorium. 
Tickets, which may be reserved by calling the Moreau Box Office at 284-4626, are S5 for general admis­sion and S2 for students and senior citizens. Admission is free for Saint Mary's students. 
Selected for the series by a com­

mittee of Saint Mary's faculty, staff, 
and students, the New Orleans­
based Preservation Hall Jazz Band represents the best of an American tradition blues and gospel-influenced New Orleans jazz. 
The group was formed in the mid­1950's, a poor period for New Orleans jazz when few of its musicians were active. Some of them claimed Preservation Hall, an old building in the city's French quarter, as their coffeehouse -a casual place where musicians could perform. Soon the 200 year-old building became a popular spot for bands and jazz lovers alike. 

The Preservation Hall Jazz Band is the most famous of the groups performing at the Hall. A seven­piece band, it has undergone several personnel changes in its nearly 30 years. The present touring group in­cludes Frank Demond, trombone; Percy G. Humphrey, trumpet; Wil­liam Humphrey, Jr., clarinet; Alan 
Jaffe, bass horn; Marvin Henry Kim­
ball, banjo; James Edward Sing Mil­ler, piano; and Frank Parker, drums. 
Concerts on tour recreate the relaxed, spontaneous atmosphere of Preservation H<!ll jam sessions. There is no listed program; the
1 
musicians decide what to play by the audience's reactions. People feel free to sway and dance to the music, especially when musicians lead members of the audience on stage 
during their rendition of When the 
Saints Go Marchini< In. 
Remaining tickets are for folding chairs and standing room only. 


Senate expects El Salvador aid bill to pass while Shultz has objections 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A democratic leader yesterday predicted Senate approval ofa compromise 561.7 mil­lion military aid package for El Sal­vador, but Secretary ofState George Shultz said he would resist any move to cut off the aid if the government now being chosen is overthrown in a military coup. 
"I think it is not necessary and is inappropriate to seem to be predict­ing that possibility," Shultz said. "The military in El Salvador has gone to great lengths to depoliticize themselves. I don't see any evidence ofanything to the contrary." 
Shultz made his remarks to the Senate Appropriations subcommit­tee that oversees the State Depart­ment budget. 
Sen. Dale Bumpers, D-Ark., said he had heard speculation about a pos­sible coup if centrist presidential candidate Jose Napoleon Duarte, who led in Sunday's first round of voting in El Salvador, is elected in a runoff expected to be held in May. 
He asked Shultz if he would sup­port an amendment to cut off aid in that event. "No, sir," Shultz said. 
The Senate is expected to vote this week on a bill that would provide $61.7 million in emergency military aid to El Salvador in the cur­rent fiscal year. The Appropriations Committee approved $93 million in aid by a close vote earlier this month, but the Reagan administra· tion compromised on the lower figure after Senate Democrts threatened to delay action. 
Congress has already approved $64.8 million in military aid for the Central American nation in this fis­cal year, but ordered that $20 mil­lion of it could not be spent until there is a trial and verdict in the case of four American churchwomen murdered in E1 Salvador in Decem­ber, 1980. 
Sen. Daniel K. Inouye, D-Hawaii, the sponsor of the compromise measure, told reporters, "It's going to pass." Inouye is chairman of a Democratic task force on Central America and senior Democrat on the appropriations subcommittee that handles foreign spending. 

Inouye said Sen. Edward M. Ken­nedy, D·Mass., indicated in a meeting of the <aSk force that he plans to offer an amendment to provide only enough money to last through May, withholding further installments until after the runoff when the makeup of the new government is known. 

Meanwhile, Rep. Clarence Long, D-Md., chairman of the House Ap­propriations subcommittee on foreign operations, said, "I am con­cerned that we need them (the Sal­vadoran regime) more than they need us, and we are going to con­tinue to give them arms no matter how atrocious their behavior is." 
Long spoke at a subcommittee hearing at which Aryeh Neier, chair­man of the Americas Watch Com­mittee, testified, "In recent months, the U.S. Embassy in San Salvador, with the intermittent support of the Reagan administration, has con­ducted a campaign against killings and disappearances of civilian non­combatants" by death squads. 
"This campaign has had an impact, reducing the number to about a dozen each week," Neier said. Nevertheless, he said, the human rights group opposes all military aid 
to El Salvador because of consistent 
"violations of internationally 
recognized human rights." 
Lettuce hear from you••• 


Write: 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 
46556 


The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1984-page 4 

Girl Scout drive tainted by objects 
Associated Press 

More than I00 peopk have taken advantage of a Crawfordsville hospi­tal's offer to X-ray Girl Scout cookies after a Crawti>rdsvilk man found a needle in a mint cookie. 
Meanwhile, Girl Scouts in Evansville ended their annual cookie sale li>ur days early, and Fort Wayne officials awaited word on whether Girl Scout cookies would he distributed, after national reports of cookies containing needles and other small objects. 
In Crawfordsville, where a sewing needle was found in a Girl Scout cookie Monday, Culver Union llospital offered X-ray seFice Tues­day through tonight. Micfiacl J Kid­well, radiology assistant, said yesterday that no foreign objects were found so far. 
Kidwell said about II 0 people came in Tul·sday night to have more than 70 cases ofcookies checked. 
"Tonight we've had about I 5 cases," brought in in the first half hour, Kidwell said. The service is being offered from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Shirley Gooding ofCrawfordsville found a needle Monday when she determined a thin mint cookie "didn't look right" and broke it open. She had not bitten into the 

Lava flows within miles of city as Hawaii prepares for eruption 
Associated Press 

IIlLO, Hawaii-A milt:-wide lava !low from Mauna Loa slowed but continued to mon-within seven milt-s of llawaii's second-largest city Yl'Stcrday, while re~idents living in its path madt: plans to It-ave if the moltt.•n rock thrt:atened their homes. 
''I'll jump in one car and my wifl· will jump in anothc:r car and we'll grab what we can." said Victor Souza. 5·!. who~c home is among those nl·arest the !low. 
Th(' main lava tlow slowed during the night. advancing to within seven miles of homes in llilo's upper Kaurnana section, said Reggie Okamura of th(" I '.S. Geological Sur­Vl"y's Hawaiian Volcano Obser­vatory. 
There was no immediate danger to populated areas on the island of Hawaii. he said. Thl' main flow rt:achnl a fairly llat area and its ad­vance slowed to about ·H>O feet per hour. Okamura said. 
The tlat area i~ a milt-wide, he cookie and was not hurt. 
Police said it appeared to have been baked into the cookie and not inserted through a tampered box. 
Pins, needles, and paper clips were first discovered two weeks ago in Missouri cookies sold by St. Louis Girl Scouts. Since then, reports of contamination have come from Colorado, Kentucky, Nebraska, Georgia, Indiana, Maine, Illinois, Ohio, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Minnesota, although some of the reports turned out to be hoaxes. 
At Terre Haute, Terre Haute Regional Hospital also offered to ex­amine cookies with a flouroscope for foreign objects. 
Dr. Benjamin Ko, director of radiology, said yesterday that the service that began a day earlier will continue "as long as people are scared c:nough." 
"I can't do it in my rush hours in the morning hut in the slow hours in the afternoon (from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.) anyone who wants to can bring the cookies in," he said. 
Ko said that two boxes ofcookies were brought in Tuesday but no harmful objects were found. Late yesterday, no one had brought in cookies, he said. Ko joked that he was happy to offer the service "as long as people give me one·· cookie. 
said, hut he could not estimate how 
long the lava would build up before 
tumbling downhill again. 

The front of the: flow widened to 
just under a mile wide, he said. 

The !low earlier had been moving 
at I ,000 feet per hour, and at that 
rate it could have reached homes in 
the city of 48.000 today. 

Civil defense oftlcials made: no 
move to evacuate residents and 
Mayor Herbert .\1atayoshi said it was 
too early to declare an emergency. 

Some residents of the Kaumana 
area made tentative plans to move 
belongings, but most said they 
weren't worried yet. 

''I'll leave if the flow comes within 
two miles," said Souza, a resident of 
the new Kaumap~~~<;;ity subdivision 
closest to the flow. 

"I don't want to fool around with nature," he said. ''I'm not going to stay around to try to diven the lava in order to save the house," said Souza, :H, who moved into the: sub­division with his wife Linda and their two daughtl·rs last October. 
A fountain of lava spraying up to 
Ko compared the cookie scare to the 
scare that results when objects are 
found in Halloween treats. 

In Fort Wayne, officials of the · area's Limberlost Girl Scout Council, which administers scout programs in Adams, Allen, DeKalb, Hun­tington, Steuben and Wells Counties, were awaiting word from national Girl Scout officials on what to do about cookie sales. Delivery had been scheduled for April 9 through April 30, with store sales scheduled for April 18, 21, 2 5 and 28. 
Wayne McDowell, Limberlost ex­ecutive director, said the sale of 366,500 boxes of cookies was ex­pected to net 5350,000 for the area· council. i 
Jan Davies, a spokeswoman for; Evansville scouts, said sales at four . cookie stores were suspended Tues­day. "We were staffing those stores i with volunteers, and people were concerned and not buying cookies, so we closed the stores," she said. 
Mrs. Davis said there have been no reports of foreign objects in any of the 384,000 boxes of cookies sold by the local scout organization. 
At Lafayette, Sycamore Council spokeswoman Audrey Dirksen said the Crawfordsville situation ap­peared to be an isolated incident. 
100 feet high was feeding the main flow and several smaller flows, Okamura said. 
One of the smaller flows had threatened the 72-inmate Kulani Prison, hut stopped about three miles above the minimum-security facility. None of the smaller flows posed any threat, although one had cut a secondary power line serving a television relay station. 
State and county officials on Tues­day rejected a proposal to build giant earthen walls to ddlect the lava. The barriers were not feasible and could divert the flow from one residential area to another, Gov. George Ariyoshi said.· 
Officials also rejected a 'proposal to bontlJ the flow and other large­scale efforts to divert it. 
Scientists also were keeping a close watch on Kilauea Volcano, which has been erupting intermit­tently about 20 miles away siticejan. 
3. 191'!3. Scientists have said another outburst at Kilauea is imminent. A simultanc:ous eruption would be the first since 1868. 
The Obscrver/javier Oliva

Springing back • 
Looking as ifhe is posing for a baseball card, sophomore jim Reed throws a ball to pal yesterday as they seemed to enjoy the Spring weather. The temperature is expected to become cooler today. 
15% Discount ~ not including 

· sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

LTniversity Park Mall and Concord. & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 



free... 
DOMINO'S PIZZA ... 
AND 2 FREE COKES 
WITH OUR 
3-DAY MOVIE PACKAGE 
* 
3-DAY MOVIE PACKAGE s24ss 
RENT AVIDEO DISC PLAYER OR VIDEO FOR J 
TAPE RECORDER AND 3 MOVIES ... ONLY FULL DAYS At\tl WEll GIVE YOU ACOUPOM FOR AFREE DOMINO'S PIZZA & ZCOKES! 
VIDEO DISC PLAYER 1't»' 1 MOYIE/OVERNIGHT 
a ICA IIIED 
wsmt:PUYU 
RENTAL SLIGHTLY HIGHER 


OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS 
RCA VIDEO 
~. AVAILABLE PLUS f.:c­
CASSETTE PI.AY!R 
~ 100's OF MOVIES '--.:z:::i· 
South Bend North 51400 U.S. 31 N. Clocktower Square 277-8872 
I _. ( ~ , , . , , 't' I ' I • 
.'....: : ..._•_; .1'~··"·" _,_; '..' '. 


PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to. immediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 
* 
Systems inventory management 

* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management 



Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance­
ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age limit .29. Call Navy Toll Free
......,,. 

1·800-382-9782 
Navy representative on campus 10-12 April 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1984-page 5 

APPhoto 

Bishopjan Mazur announced in Garwolin, Poland on Tuesday he is going on a bread and waterfast after communist authorities toughened theirposition in Poland's "crucifix crusade." 
AlTENTION ciUNIORS: 
The deadUae for sigaiag ap for seaior portrait• ha• beea eJdeaded to March 30 

Sftla •• ilt bot• &llllill• •alia tlaria• cliaaer or 1ty ca....t••DOJIE (239-7524) eveaila•• ltetweea 7 -•'wt·•· 

Polish 'Crucifix Cusade' continues 
Associated Press separation of church and state, in­would not elaborate. 
directly endorses the removal of The Mietne sit-in led to other 
MIETNE, Poland -Communist crosses ordered by the government. protests in following days at high authorities have ordered defiant The crosses have been a fixture in . schools in neighboring Garwolin. teen-agers to obey a ban on classrooms and other public build­More than a dozen students inter­crucifixes in classrooms or quit ings for decades in this devoutly viewed on the almost deserted school, an official confirmed yester­Roman Catholic country. campus yesterday afternoon said no day. Many students said they'd leave. Domanski told Western reporters more than 50 pupils had attended 
that 34 students had quit the Stanis­class that morning. They spoke on 
Bishop Jan Mazur, meanwhile, en­law Staszic Agricultural School in condition their names not be used. tered the second day ofa bread-and­Mietne, a rural village 40 miles south They said the majority had quit or water fast to protest the of Warsaw, rather than sign the dec­intended to do so as soon as they government's position in the three­laration. found new schools. Several students week-old conflict between church He refused to say how many ofthe were spotted carting their belong­and state. students, ranging in age from 15 to ings from the dormitories. 
Ryszard Domanski, administrator 20, had signed the declaration. Stu­"My pride won't let me stay," said of the agricultural high school dent accounts varied, putting the a young girl lugging a box filled with where the "war of the crosses" number who had signed at 100 to books and a tattered teddy bear. began, confirmed that the school's 1SO parents and 1 7 to 90 students. Dorm residents who did not sign 600-plus students would be barred Domanski said that the number the declaration but remained on from class unless they or their attending classes had been "fluid" campus while their transcripts were parents signed a declaration agree· since the school reopened Tuesday being processed "are being refused ing to abide by school regulations. for the first time since a 12-hour sit· meals," according to two 16-year­
The declaration, recognizing the in by 400 students on March 7. He old girls. 

Waitress/ archeologist seeks dishes 
Associated Press second trip to Tel Batash. 
experiencing and holding some­
Uncovering evidence ofthe past is 

thing used thousands ofyears ago. It KOKOMO, Ind. -An archeology 1a painstaking process that involves was like bringing two time periodsenthusiast who is a student and a moving tons ofdirt. The "dig" begins together."
waitress will travel more than 7,000 by breaking the ground with a pick The digs begin at 4 a.m. daily somiles this summer to dust off some and turia, which resembles a large workers can avoid the extreme heatold dishes. 
hoe. The pieces of earth are further 

that comes later in the day. To avoidKaren Julius will be an assistant at broken with hammers and trowels. 
dehydration, workers are requiredthe archeological excavation of Tel That step is followed with hand­to drink water every half hour.
Batash, a site about 20 miles west of sifting of the dirt, which is hauled The team also had to be on the
Jerusalem. away as the site is cleared. 
watch for black scorpions and theTel Batash is a hill containing a The fme work of removing dirt poisonous Palestinian viper. 
number of cities built on the from around artifacts is done with 
Although the project directors areremains of previous cities that were ice picks and paint brushes. 
trained archeologists, the workersdestroyed through the centuries. Patience is required, but the work are volunteers who learn on the job.
She will be investigating Timnah, a has rewards, says Ms. Julius, whose The expedition is sponsored bycity mentioned in the Bible as the first fmd was a bronze spearhead the Southwestern Baptist Theologi·home ofSamson's wife. that took three days to unearth. 
caf Seminary in cooperation with
The city's age is estimated at "When that spearhead was un­the Hebrew University of)erusalem.
3,500 years. earthed, the past and present came Ms.)ulius used the experience forThis summer wilt be Ms. Julius' together," she said. "I was actually 
college credit. 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
PRICES GOOD TO THRU MARCH 31,1984 
Bailey's I-rish Creme 
150mI

WE BEAT ALL 10.99 
ADVERTISED PRICES Lord Calvert Canadian 
9.99 BEER Kings Cellar Olympia Vodka 
1.751. 
1.751.

6.49 7.99
LP 
Busch 
Kings Cellar
6.99 
Rum 
1.751. 

LP Natural Light 6.99 8.99 LP lnglenc 'k Navalle
Budweiser 
8.79

LP 
~ines 3.49
Molson Beer 
24bollles 
10.99 Kings Cellar Old Tequila 
9.99
1.751.

Milwaukee 
LP 
5.79 Cella Strohs Lambrusco
6.99 1.99
LP 750ml 
Miller Lite Carlo Rossi
7.99 4.99
LP 4.0l 
Little Kings 
4.99

24 7oz. 
Michelob Budweiser 
hallbbl halfbbl
36.99 29.99 
Old Lite 
quarterbbl 

21.99
KEGS

Milwaukee 
halfbbl 
24.99 Old Style
halfbbl 

27.99
Lite 
hallbbl 
30.99 

.I j
. 
.......,.. 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1984 -page 6 
not enough ... in slavery everyone had a job." 


50 dead or
Mondale said that during the Car­


Race 
ter administration Hart was one of continuedfrom page I only eight Senate Democrats who 

wounded
vott·d against a windfall profits tax nudc:ar fn·c:zc:. prompting Hart to he said would have taken a quarter rt·spond, "lie: knows he is no more: of a trillion dollars in excess profits comrnittt·d to arms control than I from major oil companies. 

in Beirut 

APPhoto
German gesture 
West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl gestures to make his point as be delivers a go11ernment declaration on the European Conference Brussels Summit in West Germany Parliament in Bonn yesterday. 
GROUND ZERO & MOCK CONVENTION 
present a Debate/Forum on 
U.S. DEFENSEPOLICY 
Thursday, March 29 7 p.m. in Centerfor Social Concerns 
ANYONE WELCOME 

magazine 
Scholastic is looking for contributions for the May issue Seniors, this is your last shot! 
Call Kathy at 239-7569 

am." Alh-r hearing Mondalc: dc:darc: that his c:xpt·ric:ncc: would hc:lp bring an arms accord, II art said, "the: vi<.T president had four years to adlkVl' an arms control agrcc­nu·nt," during the Carter administra­tion. 
llart chargt·d that Reagan administration officials "torpedoed" an arms accord with the Sovkts in 
IYH2. 
From the ht·ginning, it was 
Mondak on the offensive. 
I k blasted IIart's vote: against the: 
Chrysler bailout, tht·n worked over 
energy and nuclear freeze policies. 
IIart dc:ti:ndcd himself and chided Mondale, saying ht· "doesn't always characterize the record accuratdy." 
Jackson said he supported the ef­fort to save till' 600,000 jobs at stake when Chrysler was thrt·atcncd with bankruptcy, hut he added, "jobs arc 

Jesse 
continuedfrom page I 
national scene. But how docs he stand on some of the issues? 
Abdul Nur, South Bend Coor­dinator ofJackson's campaign, spoke of till' "more progressive course" of Jat·kson. lk said that Jackson feels that the political establishment is not "scnsilivt· to the: nt·c:ds" of many Amt·ricans. Therefore a large: part of tht· Jackson campaign is "vott·rs rights laws must he enforced and up­hdd." Nur felt that this would have a "profound effect on tht· politics of the li.S." Jackson feels that it is time for all Americans to have a voice on the: important issues of American lift:. 
Nur also said that Jackson adv­ocates the cutting ofthe li.S. budget. The: defense: hudgt·t is a largt· <:ause of the: deficit and he fec:ls it must he trimmed. 
In foreign polit-y, Nur saidjackson would "not continue U.S. support of dt·spots." lie said Jackson would tktc:rmine which governments are st·nsitivc: to the nt:c:ds of the: people and support them ifthey prove their st·nsitivity to the: people. He: would especially pursue: this policy in Latin America. Jackson feels that in these: trouhkd areas, educational and food aid arc more appropriate than military aid. 
CANCER. 
NOT KNOWING 
THE 
RISKS ISYIIIR 
&REAlEST RISK. 
A lot of people think cancer is unbeatable. 
That simply isn't true. In fact, over two million people have had canccr and survived to lead happy, normal lives. 
And not only can cancer be beaten, it can also be prevented. 
There are definite precautions that have been pnwen to decrease }\Jur risk of getting certain cancers. 
Ask your local American Cancer Society to send }\JU a free tx1oklet atxJUt cancer risks. 
Learn the facts atxJUt cancer. And make not know­Ing the risks, one less risk. 



iaw. 
!low y<Ju live may save \Olr life. 
"The issue we are talking about is why you voted to give a quarter ofa trillion dollars to hig oil," Mondale said to Hart. 
"I did not," snapped Hart. 
"Oh yes, you did," said Mondale. 
"I didn't vote," Hart began to rc:p· 
ly, interrupted by Mondalc: who then said, "Somehow then the Con­gressional Record is wrong because: you're: n·corded as one of eight lkmocrats to transfer a quarter of a trillion dollars ..." 
"That was not the vote: and you know it wasn't," rctorred Hart. llart said he favored a different, tougher plan. 
Mondale said it was characteristic of llart to support something broader hut withhold an imporrant vote when the vote was needed. 
All three candidates criticized the Reagan administration's record on arms control. 
On the issue of nuclear arms, Nur said jackson's main priority is negotiation. He said, "if w,. go to them in a militaristic manner, they will respond in like fashion. We must have a face-to-face dialogue." Nur said thatJackson's attitude is that the "Russians arc people just like us." Communication is his highest priority. 
UnderlyingJackson's candidacy is his empathy to the needs of those who have been ignored. Whether these people are in our American cnu:s or in underdeveloped countries, he feels that human rights arc: all important. These basic rights of employment, housing, food and clothing will allow peace to occur more: easily. Nur said specific policies will he built on a firm base of human dignity. 

Attention: Class of'85 
Applications for 

Senior Informal Disorientation Week Block Party Senior Formal Senior Advisory Council Beginning ofthe End Week plus a variety ofcommissioners 
(Social, Publicity, Societal, Liturgical, Athletic, Off-campus Cocktail Party, Happy Hour, Dorm-reps) are at the Student Activities Office Pick them up on Thursday, April29 Applications are due on Friday, April6 Get Involved with the Class of'85 
P-------------------------­
1NEW OPENING I 
I Simon's Family Restaurant I 
I Hotcakes (all you can eat) $1.89 6am-noon II All Menu Items 10°/o Off (except specials) 1 I with coupon Monday-Friday I I open 7 days a week 
I I 
Mon.-Thurs.: 6am-9pm and Fri. &Sat 6am-10pm 1 coupon only 1 
~-------------------------~ 
INTERESTED IN BEING A PART OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEXT YEAR? 
Applications and Job Descriptions 
are now availablefor Student 
Government CabinetPositionsand can be picked up in the Stud. Govt. 
Offices, 2ndFloorLaFortune. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY UNDERCLASSMEN ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY Deadline Mon., April 2 Questions?? Call Rob at 1088 
or Cathy at 1334 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon · Artillery shell­
ing crupled in Beirut's Moslem and 
Christian neighborhoods today, and 
security sources reported at least SO 
pcuple were killed or wounded in 
Moslem areas. 
There was no immediate casualty report from Christian cast Beirut. The: security sources did not give a breakdown on the number of dead or injured. 
Also wday, a bomb exploded at an American University of Beirut class­room I 0 minutes before students were to arrive for class. No one was injured. _ 
One witness, who declined to be identified, said he heard five shells hit the Sanaye neighborhood in Mos­lem west Beirut. Security sources said shells also fell in several other Moslem neighborhoods and in the Palestinian refugee camps of Sabra and Chatilla. 
Nur added that a voter registra­tion drive in Indiana has been "tremendously successful" andJack­son is looking towards a strong In­diana finish. He was the first Democratic candidate to file in In­diana. 
Nur said that jackson has already had a strong impact on the race just hy bringing these human rights issues to the forefront. He said even if jackson does not enter the: con­vention as the front-runner, he will make certain that the others are sensitive to the needs of the oppressed. Nun said, "when he goes into the convention, he will have an impact on the policies being formed." 
Sonya Jones, campus campaign manager for jessejackson, could not be reached for comment. 


~i~~~_()__i_Il__t__________________Th-urs-da-y,_M~-ch_2_9._19-84--p-ag-e7 


A tale of two magazines : one praiseworthy, one poor 
Ifyou have not read the latest issue ofNotre doubt a first-class expert on Vatican II theol­
Dame Magazine, scour the campus until you ogy.) Even a rather conservative friend of 
find a copy. Ifyou have yet to find this month's mine dubbed the piece "Pre-Vatican II trash." 
Scholastic, don't bother looking. And to think, Paul McGinn dared to question 
The latest Notre Dame Magazine is a gem theScholastic/People ofPraise link. 
-the best many people at Notre Dame Skip over a few pages ofthe issue and you'll 
rememoer reading. Editor Walt Collins has come across a fine article on the ski team writ­
ten, ofcourse, by a ski team member. Scholas­tic always has had a knack for objective reporting.
Keith Picher 
And finally is Jim Ganther's last "Last Word." The first part of his article is aProfundity's demise response to Paul McGinn's Observer column 
which questionedScholastic's purpose. 
Ganther says, "as any child can see, our mis­
worked miracles with an already excellent sion is not investigative reporting or muckrak­
publication since taking over last year. ing. We've kept free from that for 117 years, 
The magazine features two articles on the and I don't envision a policy change any time modernization of South Bend, a piece on the soon. And it has never been the goal of kidnaping ofa statue of Father Sorin, an article Scholastic to spread discord or create con­on the gilding of the dome, an article on the troversies." Observer/administration struggle, a piece on Au contraire, Jim -perhaps you need to parentsoand adolescents, as well as articles by brush up a bit on Scholastic history. Father 
Eugene Kennedy, Robert Sam Anson and Hesburgh once said of Scholastic in the 60s 
others.· that it had "an excessively negative attitude 
By contrast, March's Scholastic probably is that felt called upon to scorn everything un­
the worst issue seniors have seen in four years der God and to pontificate far beyond the 
at Notre Dame. Though some of the articles limits of its writers' modest wisdom" and 
are better than others, many students, faculty made "rather crude and unkind personal 
and administrators consider parts of the issue criticisms." And so the University tore the 
literary trash. printing plates from the presses one day, 
"The First Word" asks the cosmic ques­censoring the magazine because, of course, 
tions, "Why can't my four-year-old nephew Scholastic had such a clean record over the 
recite the Pledge of Allegiance or fold a flag?" previous 100 years. 
and "Why is my brother Timmy's favorite Ganther deserves some praise -at least he 
song 'Eye ofthe Tiger' and not 'Yankee Doodle wrote a column this time. It seems he was too 
Dandy?'" A good question -when I was four, busy to write one, or just couldn't think of 
I was folding flags, and to this day Yankee anything worth writing about in February. For 
Doodle Dandy is my favorite song. that issue, he rehashed an old paper from a 
The SMC Focus on page 7 is perhaps the book reviewing class he took during the sum­
worst article in Scholastic this year. The co­mer -despite the fact that he hadn't written a 
authors first tell why they are writing the ar­column since early December. 
ticle, and how there's nothing going on at Is it really asking too much for a literary 
Saint Mary's, and how they want to see their magazine to be a bit more professional, espe­
names in print, and how all kinds of SMC cially when it comes out only once a month? 
women are starting to panic because they are Ganther concludes ·.that "the purpose of 
"unattached." The article concludes, "So Scholastic is to provide an outlet for the 
there's our article. We didn't really have a writers ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's family 
topic, but we hope you liked it anyway." while informing, entertaining, and stimulating 
I didn't. our readership." 
Page 10 sports a picture ofa writer with the If this truly is the goal of Scholastic, the 
cut line, "John Dettling is a sophomore magazine failed abysmally this year, par­
PLS/Philosophy major from Akron, Ohio, who ticularly in the March issue. Let's hope Kathy 
doesn't worry anymore." Funny, huh? McGarvey, the new editor, will learn a few les­
"A Critique of Burtchaell's Theology" ap­sons from Notre Dame Magazine. I, for one, 
pears on page 13, written by a professor would rather give my money to it than to 
emeritus ofanthropology at Saint Mary's (no Scholastic. 

Ft. Lauderdale tragedy 
It was a warm Tuesday night in Ft. Lauderdale. After a long day on the beach and in the bars, the Georgia Tech students un­winded on the Holiday Inn pool deck. The group began to tease one ofits members. They tossed his hat around the deck, until it drifted over the rail onto the pavement below. 
Diane Dirkers Guest column 
The student, in a spirit of play and inspired by alcohol, sprinted across the pool deck. Un­fortunately he didn't stop at the rail. The im­pact catapulted him over the rail to land head-first in the street below. 
Suddenly, the fun and games, and "let loose" attitude came to a sobering halt. The student died in the street as hundreds of vacationing students watched in horror. 
This incident occurred while Notre Dame was on Spring Break. It was not a daredevil stunt, it was not suicide -it was a result of uncontrolled drinking. It could have hap­pened to anyone and if the wild partying at­mosphere of Ft. Lauderdale continues, it will happen again. 
So who is responsible? Obviously the stu­dent, but who else? Accord .ing to the law, much of the liability lies with the bartender and the hotel. Lawsuits will be filed and whoever is deemed liable will pay, but would it not have been better ifthe parties had taken responsibility before the fact -preventing an unnecessary death? 
Notre Dame is in a situation quite similar to that of the Holiday Inn. If ths same incident occurred on the 1 1 th floor ofFlanner, the Uni­versity would be held responsible. This is precisely the reason it wishes to control and possibly eliminate drinking on the campus. But is a dry campus the answer? 

If the campus goes dry next year, student drinkng will not halt -it will just move off­campus. Off-campus drinking cannot be checked. Masses of students, with their first exposure to freedom, will have no one to oversee their drinking. Add to this the dangers of driving and of walking in an intoxicated state, and there you have it -the Ft. Lauderdale atmosphere. 
Would action by the administration making Notre Dame a dry campus be an act ofrespon· sibility towards the students, or just a way to shift the liability to others who will be less responsible? Does the administration expect overcrowded local bars to cut offevery single student who has had too much? 
As an employee of one of those bars, I honestly say I could not do that It isn't that I don't try or don't wish to -it's simply not feasible to monitor people and see where the drinks are going. 
So what are the alternatives? Public in­toxication laws exist in every state. It is not breach ofstudent rights to punish those who become overly intoxicated, as they are a real threat to themselves as well as to others. On­campus parties are smaller and better con­trolled. The hall rectors, the hall staffs and the students in charge ofthe parties are in a much better position to monitor the drinking level than the bartenders at the Five Points or off­campus residents. 
The administration should seriously con­sider the dry campus issue. Is it acting responsibly or merely shifting the respon­siblity elsewhere? Ifthe well-being of the stu­dents is truly the issue here, the administration should take a closer look at in­stituting a "dry campus." It is the worst mistake the administration could ever make. 
Diane Dirkers is a senior and a bartender at a local tavern. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
The reference to the course was based
Student integrity 

wholly on speculation by an undisclosed number of unidentified students. How, then, DearEditor: can Neblo make such a totally negative state­
! am writing to you about the article ment about the course? He emphasized that, concerning cheating which was printed in "the vast majority of the class has cheated at The Observer on March 15. I will never forget least once and some students have virtually how deeply Dr. Hofman was hurt by such an passed the course by cheating." exaggerated article. He has devoted his life to But the indefmite and specious nature of Notre Dame and he not only teaches students1the comment was only recognized by the but also tries to make each freshman student words, "students speculate." Either Neblo ac­have a better life at Notre Dame. cidentally stumbled upon a majority of stu-
According to that article, a large number ofdents who do think that cheating runs students who have taken Chemistry 115-116 ,rampant in the course, or he chose to dis­have cheated at least once. I doubt this is true. ,regard the students who thought the contrary. 
As one of Dr. Hofman's students, I firmly We are insulted at being called flagrant believe that most students know that the .cheaters. We are also angered by the grief quizzes not only test our mastery of general brought to Dr. Hofman by the article. Would chemstry but also test our responsibility as not The Observer staffbe angered and insulted human beings. if it were published that, because of Neblo's 
I wonder ifthose who do cheat know what a article and other articles which "students moral education is and know how to be an speculate" were printed, The Observer staff is, honest person. I also wonder how much in· in general, biased and sensationalistic in their formation the writer gathered before writing writing. that article. Fifty freshmen chemistry students 
Carolyn Yao' 

LyonsHal/ Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints o
Freshman Petl.ti•On 

the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the DearEditor: author(initials andpseudonyms are notac­
ln response to John Neblo's March 15 ar-ceptable). Letters must be well-written and tide on cheating, we are obliged to voice our typed. Material shorter than 250 words will vehement displeasure. Neblo's comment ireceive priority. All letters are subject to about cheating in Chemstry 115-116 is unfairIediting and become the property ofThe Ob-and sensationalistic. server. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor............ Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966 
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 
1 




Sports Briefs 
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held Saturday, March 31, at a time and place to be an­nounced. Women still may play in the men's tournament. -The Obsert1er 
A Bookstore Basketball scorekeepers' meeting will be held Tuesday, April 3 at 6:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Anyone interested in scorekeeping for the tourney, including those already signed up, should attend the brief meeting. 
-The Ohserr,er 
Bookstore Basketballwill hold a mandatory cap­tains' meeting Sunday, April 1, at 7 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. This is the only time tournament schedules will be dis­tributed, and each team will receive only one. -The Observer 
The Holy Cross SoftballTournament will hold its captains' meeting today in the Lafortune Little Theater at 6:30 p.m. All rosters and fees should have been submitted to Ed Cunningham (x8127) by today. Tournament play begins tomorrow. -The Ob­
server 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a mandatory general meeting on Sunday, April I at 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. -The Observer 
NVA captains' meetings for all spring sports will be held this week. Today, grad softball meets at 4 p.m., women's softball at 4:30 p.m., and women's soccer at 5 p.m. All meetings will lx In the football auditorium at the ACC. All teams must have a repre­sentative present. -The Observer 
Start warming up for the NVA tennis tournament. Eac~ hall may enter one team, and the entry deadline is Wednesday, April 4. More details will be given here at a later date. -The Ob­
server 
The ND Weilhtl1fting Clubwill have a meeting Sunday, April 1, in the Rockne ~rmnastics room. All a.re welcome. Futuce coRIIpetition will be discussed. -Tile O#Jserver 
Soccer' aad baseball oGicials are needed for 
tile NVA spriftg SCII60R. Anyone interested should go ta the NVA office at the A:CC. -TIH Observer 
Thursday, March 29, 1984 -page 8 
Aerobic Exercise Instructors for next year are being sought by NVA. Qualified applicants should contact the NVA office this week. -The Observer 
NVA Aerobics Classes are now underway at the following times: Mondays and Wednesdays at 4 p.m. and 5:15p.m., and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. Classes are held in Gym I ofthe ACC. -The Observer 

An interhall tennis tournament will be sponsored by NVA on Sunday, April 8. Students interested in this ali-day event should contact their hall athletic commissioner for in­formation about their hall's team. Rosters must be submitted by 5 
p.m. April 4. -The Observer 
lnterhall field hockey representatives will have a meeting Monday, April 2 in the NVA office. -The Observer 

NCAAVolunteers forYouthwmsponsoracar­wash this Saturday, March 31, from II a.m. to 3 p.m. at Mike's Maplelane Amoco at 1706 South Bend Ave., weather permitting. Cost of a carwash is S2, and procedes will go to the Notre Dame chapter of the NCAA-VFY. -The Observer 
An Tostal innertube and water polo signups will be held today from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaugnessy. A S7 entry fee will be collected at that time, and rosters should be brought to the meeting. Rosters may include a maximum of two varsity athletes or two water polo players, past or present. Games start Monday. -The Observer 
Interhalllacrosse representatives should call the NVA office by tomorrow, March 30, at 239-6100. There will be a meeting April 1 at 5 p.m. at the office. -The Observer 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golfcourse. It's coming up Satur­day, April 14 at 10 a.m. Deadline for entries is Friday, April 6. Registration must be made in person at the NVA office, and a $3 fee will be charged. Trophies and t-shirts wiH be awarded. -The Ob­
server 

The squash club willliost a tournament April 6-8 for players at aH levels. It is open. to aB stucterits, faculty and staft'. Sign­ups will be April 2-5 at the ACC courts. for more infumlation, calt Sean at 277-1405. -The Observer 
Fencers settle for 8th place 
By KATHY MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's fencing team placed eighth out of an eleven-team field at the National Intercollegiate Women's Fencing Association Na­tional Championship competition, held March I 7 at Hunter College of the City University of New York. 
St. John's University captured first place in the 56th annual tourna­ment, while the College of William and Mary finished second and the 
U.S. Naval Academy third. 
"If we had only won another two bouts we would have placed fifth," said Coach Marc Dejong. "From fifth to eighth place it was very, very close." 
Four Belle fencers compete<It in the tournament: juniors Mary 4nn Castaneda and Kathleen Waters, tnd sophomores Mary Frances Wi~in and Ann Raney. 
Team captain Castaneda fenced in the A division and managed only a disappointing 1-10 record. 
"l was very disappointed because Mary Ann just had a bad day," said Dejong. "She got into a rut and it's hard to psyche yourself up when you're not fencing well." 
Wilkin fenced in the C division and compiled a 5-5 record that earned fourth place in her division. 
Raney competed in the Bdivision and posted a 3-7 record while Waters earned a 5-5 mark in the D division. 
The NIWFA Tournament ll'larked the end of this season for the lrHes but DeJong looks ahead to a promis­ing season for next year. 
"There will be 8004 fencittg next year," said Dejong. "All folK fencers from the MWFA TouraaMent wiU return plus five odler fencers, .so next season looks bri...." 
:tJ: BS;n-vrr Notre: Dame= olficc:, Jocatc=d on lile third ioer af LaFonunc= St11dc=nt Center, accepts cl25sifkd advc=nising from 9 a.m. untU 4 p.m., Monday throutJII Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the= third floor of Hagar College: Cc=nter, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day tho..gh Friday. Deadline for next-day classiflc=ds is 3 p.m. All classific=ds must be prc=paid, eithc=r in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents pc=r five charac­




Classifieds 
ters r da . 

COIIPUTEIIIZED TYPIHG SERVICE • TOll ~WEA818 COMifGI SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS KALIL 277-eo41. W/pick up & deliver. AI ltlo• Senlora who did not ....,.....
LOST/FOUND I IL.-_FOR_Re_N_T__J t-rl....ll¥ March 21 pleaM ..portio 
ATTENTION NORTHEASTEI'IftEIUI: Summer Sales Positions. Average ear­INTENESTED IN LIVING ON THE BALLROOM DANCING BALLROOM tiM T,.._.•etftc:e tor a lull tuition 
DANCING BALLROOM DANCING A refuftll.

nings $2700. Sell yellow page advertising WKTE SAND BEACHES OF THE N.J.
GREAT WAY TO HAVE FUN, CALL

LOST: ONE SET OF CAR AHO DORM HOUSES · FURNISHED · t MILE FROM for Notre Dame and Western Michigan SHOAE THIS SUMMEA? CALL I'AT
TRACY AT 277-7232 OR GINA AT 277­

KEYS ON A KOOL..JAZZ KEY ~ CAMPUS 4-6 BDAMS. 2 BATHS CALL University Campus Telephone Direc· THE SUNSHINE BOYS ARE COMING II 117111
4184

CASH REWAAD. CALL CHRIS AT 277-3-46t tories. Spend 5 weeks in Notre Dame and 4815. 5 weeks in Kalamazoo. Car necessary. 
····················
JUNIORS JUNIORS: HOW TO BEGIN WANT TO MOVE OFF CAMPUS? We're PLANNING YOUR JOB SEARCH NOW. looking for a 4th (female) for Campus No summer school students. Lodging and CONGRATULATIONS JIMIIIGOOD 
LOST:ND MEN'S RING. LOST ON 3/15. one meal per day provided while in LUCKWITHIBII
THURSDAY. MAR. 29·-7:00 P.M. ROOM View. Call Ann 1264 or Keri t279.
YELLOW GOLD. BLUE STONE WITH Kalamazoo. Qualified students should 118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL.
ND ENGRAVED ON TOP. MY NAME IS WANTED call University Directories, I -800-334­
TOM~WERS
PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND Patti and Barney, ENGRAVED ON THE INSIDE THERE IS 4436, for more inlormation by March 3 t st. 
Pulitzer Prize winning author of Thinking
PLACEMENT SERVICES. CONGRATULA TIONSIII 
A REWARD FOR ITS RETURN. CALL Ask for Barbara Nieukirl< About the Next War. lecture entltfed The We heard about your JEFF AT 885<4. THANKS Arma 1'1-: What Ia It About? Friday,
Need ride to U of Iowa on Fri 3/30.Mike The animated-feature version of George engagement off the streetl 
7.·oo, Center for Social Concerns. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. Lost: Brown wallet dunng spring break. 
8842 Orwell's satire ANIMAL FARM IJIAACH THANKS A LOTI 
CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
28 & 29 AT THE ENGINEERING We LOVE you both. 
Reward. If found call <4570 ask for Carrie Aide needed to BLOOMINGTON, IN this AUDITORIUM. 7:00 & 8:30. FREE. Your IGNORED little SISters.
MOCK CONVENTION 1914 weekend 3/30-411. Sean 8464 Mary and Jackie 
helplll I LOST 25 DOLLARS VESTER· TYPING AVAILABLE· 2117-40112 DelenM Platform p11nel dlacuaalon,
PENROD'S NORTH 

DAY SOMEWHERE ON NORTH QUAD. featuring MlchMI Francia, King Pilei­IF FOUND CALL SUE AT 2962. fer, and George Brinkley, TONIGHT,
Boaton area couplea are aeeklng DON'T PARTY WITH DOMERS matu,. pereonato help with child ca,. PARTY AT PENROD'S 
THANKS! LOUIE'S FAMILY STYLE ITALIAN 7:00, CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON· ASPEN84and houMhold ..aponalbllltlea for one 
RESTAURANT-corner of Notre Dame CERNS. 
7am party tape, high altitude eggs. LostII A brown velvetty sweat Jacket. It's and South Bend Avenues( I 00 feet lrom Kelly and Kathy
year poaltlon In exchange tor room, Paragon, i only drink water at bars. hot
board and wagea. PleaM call Kate tubs, Pablos and flying chips, Lillie Neils. 
my favonte. and 10Qg1ng season IS ap­the bars) t.50 off any large pizza Did you notice how dry the road looks ex­Go mango!
Goldfield at 1117-1112-79112 or write: 2113 
cept for the puddles? Get wild this Friday with 
proachmg If found please call Sue at high altitude cocktails, house rules: no
Marrett Road, Lexington, MA 02173. squirting. no marshmallows.
2962. THANKSI There is a 1:I ratio il you count tonnage. Bill The KINETICS 
at Nickles Music starts at 1Opml 
wine/cheese parties-we want. Mark LOST: German textbook. 1n bookstore 
NEED nde EAST on 1·80 to OHIO exit 4 or 
Kennedy-badly, Tippler's, snowballs, we cubbyhole the Wednesday before break. Teaa,Watch your mail! 
5 (TOLEDO). Can leave on 3-29. call JIM AITENTIONI DID SPRING BREAK FAIL VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR A CON­
love being blown off. hotel keys, teabags If found, please return to Lost and Found GRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN. MICHEAL
al8674-72 TO FIND YOU A SUMMER JOB? NEED 
swollen eyes. love those lips Tweedle or Bnan x674t. Thanks 
TO MAKE MONEY AND EARN GOOD BARNES DEM. 3RD DISTRICT IN­Aide needed to Dayton this weekend. Call EXPERIENCE? SUMMER WORK IN­dee/dum, we all went down together!
DIANA Good experiience and resume Lisa. 284-5t76. TERVIEWS THURS. MARCH 29, 3:30 FARLEY HWOMEN! material. Jim-3584 
Who's up for an Apres Aspen party? FOUND -BETWEEN D-2 AND GRACE ON 211. MARCH •• MEN'S TIMEX 
AND 7:00. ROOM 2-D LAFORTUNE. KATIE TRAXLER WANTED: one female as a 4th for for 
DIAL A WENCH· need a girl lor the WATCH-CALL 11171 
weekend. weekday, or any other special 
Campus Voew Apts. Call Ann I 264 or Keri SECRETARY SLOW DEATH is also looking for funny 
occasion? call dial-a-wench 4389 and ask 
1279. GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUB!!!!!!! people to write for our publication. We of· 
for jellybean fer invrting incentives but refuse to enter 
WOMEN'S TENNIS IS HOT into a bidding war. So multi-year contracts 
tor absurd amounts of money are unlike­Hawaii club members--Tickets are in Call ly. Still, we're worth looking into. Call Tired of looking lor the beet at tha Mike or Chris 8557. I 545, or I 601 to gel on the mailing dining hall? Sign up lor 
list or offer assistance. NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS 
PERSONALS 
The guys in I 50, I 51 Alumni are total 4:30to6:30 studs! ....just a stereotypical Beeux Arta Ball South Dining Hall LARGE. IN VERY GOOD CONDITION GRANDMOTHER COMING ALL THE 
..Fnday, AprilS. TODAY IS THE LAST DAY I 
MARINE SURPLUS BEST OFFER· WAY FROM IRELAND TO SEE OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. BEGORAI BEGORAI BEGORAI Last CALL PAITY AT 8654 CEREMONY CALL BOB t I 04 CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE chance for St. Pat's Day fun. Fourth floor Dear INCREDIBLE HUNK· The best of BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Le Mans. Thursday, 7:00P.M. luck to you on Sat. I'll be out there rootin' LAST CHANCE Ill BOOTLEG TAPES 277-6398 
·for ya'l With Warmest Regards, Rachael SIGN UP FOR NEIGHBORHOOD Do you have a gr..t sense of humor? FLORIDA SLAM McClish P.S. GET PUMPED !Ill 
ROOTS­
BIZZ BUZZ.. OR WAS IT JUST LEARN ABOUT SOUTH BEND'S ETH­WITH INCREASING 's.WILLING TO NOTICES 
average guy on campus? Then share BUZZED. SPILL MUCH MARY SLAM. ALASKAN Hawaiian-Glad your back· NIC DEAL, CALL DAN MEAKIN 277·3306 your talents. The Observer features MAXELL & TDK TAPES $2.75 & DOWN Do you think you are funnier than the 
FRIDAY PM! NEIGHBORHOODS department is looking for humor colum­Jeannie Poole is a Goddess!!!! 4:30-6:30 35mm Camer..l Mlnolta XG-1 exc. PRO· TYPE · Over I 2 yrs. expenence nists to write regularly. For information For a great year vote CANTWELL· SOUTH DINING HALL C<!l)d., Rollel 35T w/flash good cond. typing dissertations, manuscripts, and contact Mary Healy at The Observer GIRLS:TIRED OF THE ND SOCIAL BERNERS FARLEY PRES/VICE PRES TODAY IS THE lAST DAyt. Make offers. 284-53<4I. student papers. Call277·5833. office, 3rd Floor of LaFortune LIFE? CALL OUR SERVICE AT 3727. It can happen I 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1984-page-9 
NBA Standings 
x-Boston x-Philadelphia x-New York x-New Jersey 
Washington 
x-Detroit 
x-Milwaukee 
Atlanta 
Chicago 
Cleveland 
Indiana 
Western Conference 

Eastern Conference 
Midwest Division

Atlantic Division 
W L Pet. GB 54 19 .740 
Utah 46 26 .639 7.5 
Dallas 43 29 .597 10.5 
Kansas City . 39 33 .542 14.5 
Denver 31 43 419 23.5 
San Antonio Central Division 
Houston 43 30 .589 43 30 .589 ­
x-Los Angeles 
34 40 .459 9.5~x-Portland 26 45 .366 16 Seattle 26 46 .361 16.5 Phoenix 23 49 .319 19.5 Golden State 
San Diego 
•-clinched playoff spot 
Yesterday's Results 
Boston 114. Dallas 107 Philadelphia 109, Washington 1 03 Detroit 1 08. Chicago 101 Indiana 99, New York 93 Milwaukee 130. Cleveland 98 Seattle 111. Kansas City 94 San Diego 122, Los Angeles 115 
w L 
41 33 
39 34 
34 39 
34 40 
32 41 
28 44 
Pacific Division 47 24 44 28 37 37 34 40 32 40 27 47 

Earn 6-1 spring record 
Women's tennis team aims high 
ByMARY SIEGER I II competition there," said Notre Sports Writer Dame coach Sharon Petro. "We got I some cross sectional play which we 
This year's Notre Dame women's : can't get around here." tennis team is talented, ambitious, "We got to see how we compared unified, motivated and working to Division II schools and see how harder than ever to reach its goal: well we'll do at Nationals," added bringing home the NCAA Division II Irish co-captain Lisa Lafratta. "Now National Championship. we know we aren't dreaming for 
Although the the team lost its first something impossible." game ofthe year, 7-2, to Michigan on While competing in California, Tuesday, the Irish have earned a 6-1 the Irish defeated Montana State 8-1, spring rs:cord afrer winning five con-Cal Poly Pomona 8-1, the University secutive matches during a trip to the of Northern Colorado 8-1, Loyola West Coast over spring break. After Marymount 6-3 and Cal State at players managed to remain un­defeated. Joanne Biafore at No. 5 singles, Pam Fischette at No. 4 singles, Susie Panther and Laura Lee at No. 2 doubles and Greta Roemer and Kathy Schnell in the third doubles all left the competition with 5-0 records. 
"There's nothing like travelling together to get a team unified," said co-captain Roemer. "We know we're a good team and we support each other which makes a positive attitude." 
Last year, the Irish took third 
Pet. .554 .534 .466 .459 .438 .389 
.662 .611 .500 .459 .444 .365 
GB 
1.5 6.5 7 8.5 12 
3.5 11.5 14.5 15.5 21.5 

the California trip, the team took 'Northridge 7-2. "The team' place in the NCAA National Com­
one step closer to its goal and gained represented the University well, valuable experience within the divi-competed well and I think they sion. enjoyed it," said Petro. 
"We got some ofour best Division During the California trip, several petition which was the result ofhard work and steady progression in the program. "We think we can win the National Championship," said Petro. "We have a solid team ofjuniors and sophomores and we have a good future." 
"We have to keep the Nationals in the back of our minds and con­centrates on the day to day matches and do well if we want to go," said Lafratta. "We have to remember there is a lot between now and Na­tionals." 
The key to success for this season has been team effort. There are no "superstars" on this squad meaning every player's contribution is equal­ly important to the team. "We're a very team oriented group," Lafratta said. "We like to work and we're motivated, dedicated and com­mitted to tennis and hopefully it will pay off in a National championship." 
On Tuesday, the Irish ad their per­fect record tarnished, losing to a tough Michigan squad. Although the 7-2 score appears discouraging, the games were much closer than past meetings between the two rivals. Since Michigan is a Division I team and not in direct competition with Notre Dame, the loss is not seen as a major setback for the team. 
"They've always been above us, but now they're not that far above us," explained Roemer. 
After Michigan had the match sewn up after the first round of doubles competition, players rallied for the remaining··sets to -give the Wolverines a run for their money. ''I'm proud ofthem," said Petro. "My kids don't give up and somewhere down the road it will pay off." 
··"Next Thursday, th~ Irish play host • to the University ofHawaii. Petro ex­pects Hawaii to furnish tough matches and strong players for her squad. 

Baseball 
continuedjrompage 12 
With the spring trip behind them, the Irish now get set for a Midwes­tern schedule. Today they face cross-town rival Bethel in a doubleheader, and travel to Indiana on Saturday for another twinbill. The home opener will be Sunday as the Irish face Dayton in a doubleheader at Jake Kline Field starting at 1 p.m. 
There's free tax help at most local libraries including audio tapes to take you step-by-step through completion ofyour tax return. a reference set of the IRS free publi­cation series, and reproducible tax forms. 
,,' •' ' t ·, 

The Observer Thursday, March 29, 1984-page 10 
last night's game. Alonza Allen of Southwestern The Irish players, if nothing else, Louisiana, Roy Tarpley of Michigan,
NIT 
should leave New York today with a and Dell Curry of Virginia Tech ... continuedfrompage 12 bundle more confidence than they Virginia Tech beat Southwestern 
Box Score 
compete." 
"These guys have never really let up in trying to find out what they could be. We got an indication of that when it all came together for us at the end of the year." 
Phelps, not making any alibis, mentioned the fact that his squad barely tired after spending much of the last week-ami-a-half on the road. The Irish coach really had no com­plaints about what his team did in 

Fencers 
continuedfrom page 12 
In the tournament, the Irish con­tingcnt was lt:d hy frc:shman Charles Higgs-Coulthard who won the gold medal in the foil. Higgs-Coulthard just did beat out second place finis­hc:r Stefan Kogler of Wayne State with a strong showing in the final round. He is the: first Irish foiler to win a gold since Andy Bonk won one in 1979. 
Sophomore Mike VanderVelden finished 14th for the Irish in a field of 30 foilers. 
Also fencing strong were the sabre men. Sophomore DonJohnson finished third as he was edged out of second place by Brian Keane of Wayne State in the final round. Each finished with 14 points but Keane had more touches in the final match. 
Michael Lofton of New York Uni­versity took first in the sabre with 19 points while junior Mike Janis finished 14th for the Irish. 
In the epee, the Irish showing was began this season with. 
"The young guys now realize what they can do," said Ken Barlow. "This (the NIT) does nothing but give us more confidence." 
Notre Dame returns everyone but Sluby and Cecil Rucker next year, while bringing in five new recruits. Phelps, in fact, thinks this might be his best recruiting class ever. 
IRISH ITEMS -Sluby and Bar­low both were named to the All­Tournament Team along with 
strong tor junior Andy Quaroni who finished 6th with 7 points. Accord­ing to DeCicco, Quaroni was also honored as the outstanding fencer of the year. He was awarded this honor due to his ability and "classic style." 
"After Andy got into the semi­finals, he couldn't win for losing," commented DeCicco. "He didn't fence as well as he was capable of fencing." 
Ettore Blanche of Wayne State, defeated by Quaroni earlier in the season, took first with 18 points. Sophomore Brian St. Clair came in 18th for Notre Dame. 
Individually, three Irish fencers were also named as all-Americans this past week: junior Andy Quaroni, sophomore Don Johnson, and fresh­man Charles Higgs-Coulthard. 
Representing the lady Irish in the women's NCAA Championships was freshman Pia Albertson who finished 
1Oth in the individual competition. 
The Irish end their season third in 
the country with a 19-1 mark, and 
have yet to finish below 8th in the 
country since 1976. 
Louisiana, 71-70, in the consolation game. Southwestern Louisiana had a chance to win the game in the final seconds, but was called for travell­ing with six seconds remaining ... Attendance at Madison Square Gar­den for last night's doubleheader was 13,123, much more than many had anticipated ...Phelps picked up a technical in the first half for screaming sonmething about an il­legal screen to referee Larry Lembo, who thought the Irish coach had cursed at him. Lembo later admitted to Phelps that he had misheard him. Still, Phelps worked the refs very hard during the first part of the game, which is probably why he ended up getting the technical ... Former New York Knicks star Walt Frazier was in attendance last night at The Gardens ... The Irish, who closed out the year at 21-12, will arrive at Michiana Regional Airport this afternnon at 2:23 p.m. and should be back to campus by around 
3:00. 



Didn't you know that if you're a senior with the promise ofa $10,000 career-oriented job, you could have the American Express®Card? 
Where have you been? 
Asleep? 
Because for some time American Express has been saying that we believe in your future. But even more than that. We believe in you now. And we've been proving it. A $10,000 job. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is even good for 12 months after you graduate. 
But why do you need the American Express Card now? First ofall, it's a good way to begin to establish your credit history. And you know that's important. Ofcourse, the Card is also good for vacation travel, as well as for shopping for things like a new stereo or furniture. And because the Card is recognized and welcomed worldwide, so are you. 
So call800~528~8000 for a Special Student Application or look for one at your college bookstore or on your campus bulletin boards. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it:M 
Look for an application on campus. 
ClAmcnun Ex.prt'SI Trawl JU.Iared Servin•s Company, Inc. JQS4 

Michigan 83, Notre Dame 63 
Michigan (83) Notre Dame (63) 
M FG·A FT·A R F p M FG-A FT·A R F p McCormick 35 13-16 2-5 14 2 28 Barlow 36 6-10 6-6 8 5 18 Reliford 27 2-5 1-1 5 3 5 Dolan I 25 1-2 0-2 2 2 2 Tarpley 33 5-13 8-8 8 4 18 Kempton 35 5-10 9-9 5 3 19 Joubert 27 5-9 2-3 1 4 12 Howard 33 1-5 1-3 3 4 3 Turner 31 6-10 4-4 0 5 16 Sluby 36 7-20 5-5 4 2 19 Wade 16 0-2 0-2 3 4 0 Hicks 14 0-2 0-0 2 1 0 Pelekoudas 25 0-1 2-2 1 2 2 Royal 8 0-0 0-0 0 2 0 Thompson 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Bowen 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Rudy 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Price 8 1-4 0-0 1 2 2 Rockymore 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 Newell 1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Henderson 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Rucker 1 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 200 32-57 19-25 32 24 83 Buchanan 1 0-0 0-0 1 0 0 167 21-54 21-25 27 21 63 
FG Pet. · .561 FT Pet. · .760. Team FG Pet. .389. FT Pet. -.840. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -19. Assists -19 rebounds . 4. Turnovers -20. Assists . 12 (Joubert. Pelekoudas 6). Technicals-None. (Howard 4). Technicals. Noire Dame Bench. 
Halftime -Michigan 28. Notre Dame 26. Of· ficials -John Hannon. Hank Nichols. Larry Lembo. A-13.123. 
COMIC BOOK CONVENTION 
"MICH/ANA COM/CON" 
Saturday April 7 10AM-5PM K of C Hall 815 N. Michigan St. Admission $1.00 
•DEALERS •PRO GUESTS •DOOR PRIZES 
~--------------·~
f \ 
II  MOCK CONVENTION  II  
I  still needs  I  
II  afewmore DELEGATES  II  
I1 1  Sign-up TODAY in 2nd Door LaFortune Office  II 1  
I  I  

republicans. Democrats. ANYONE welcomet 
I I 
\ I 

~---------------' 



D'S~~ 
Restaurant and Lounge n 151 6 North Ironwood l 
c --233-774~----....... 
D.J. SPINNING Seven Days A Week! 
Mon.·Sat. 9 P.M.·1 A.M. 
Sunday 8 P.M.-12 A.M. 

Best Variety In Town 
---couPON ---­
NO COVER Receive 2 for 1 with coupon 
valid thru 4-15-84 ;e<;:~ 
-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-.. --.......... --*--....... -.... -••••••.• -· ... _.__._____ ---------_...__________ •. ~--..-.----.....-....__. ..___.. ______ ---~-.--......... --.-___ .,._.,.__..,_ ... _ 
~4(Jt~C3L~_______________.,..•. __-p_a_g_e_l_l
_______________________r_hu_r_s_da_y_,_M_M_c_h_2_9_,_1_98_4 
Bloom County 
M£ .1 OH, I'M 711E P!.AtiJTIFF'5 STAR 
WITN€55, Y£R HOIJOR . 


Mellish 
&a/tiE ON, roM! I CAN'rr;o. ]E'S GO! rHE M'l rAN COSTUME PAIJTV 15 FANNG. ALREAW STAKTE~/ 

'/£5... I ~5 TH£~ VURIN& 
11!£ SHOOTIN& OF 1flf 
VW£0, ANI/ I'lrl Hf.Rf 
TO SAY 711AT fVEKf-• 
fffl~l •'t@PONS/81£! 'THE P!.AINflff }/ 
WAS 1\CTfN(:I 1 

Richard Guindon 

"Harry's not against jogging. He's just unable to conquer his lear of shin splints." 
f<fGiffl AN{) THE [J({tl(;5 l OH, THE Pl?u&S .' SIMnY EVtf{YfJO[)Y W/15 tATINb THOSE PSYCHf-PWC 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  33 Mortgage  65 Firm  8 Dot of  
1 Woven band  35 Educational  66 Woodwind  land  
6-accompli 10 For men only 14 Lavin or Evans  aide 39 Automobile frame 41 Below cost 43 Seven:  67 In­(bored by routine) 68 Chimp 69 Stain  9 Abode for Minnehaha 10 Surgeon's aide 11 -intents  
15 Artifice  comb. form  70 Not so  and pur·  
16 Spiral 17 Western 18 Heraldic  44 Bank deal 46 Cheat 47 Bond  much 71 Spiny· finned fish  poses 12 Fr. river 13 Sparkle  
wreath  49 Fondue  21 Phonograph  
19 Scratch out  ingredient  needles  
20 Complete victory 22 Forearm  51 Hunting party 54 Overwhelm  DOWN Political  25 Yogi's glove 26 Georgia- 
bone 23 Heating  by means of amusement  faction 2 Oman money  27 Yearn 28-up  
lamp 24 Logo  56 Kind of sauce  3 Before: pref.  (conclude) 29 Book cover  
26 Gaudy and  57 Form of  4 Brainchild  31 Early  
cheap 30 Connection  lottery 63 Hornswoggle  5 Needle worker  Peruvian 34 Skerry  
32 Beige  64 Lamp black  6 Scowl 7 Golden  36 Gate receipts  

Berke Breathed 
P5YCHEVWC 'ToAV5foot5( fRO& l.£&5 l i 

&Dave 



"Well, there it goes again ... And we just sit here without opposable thumbs.' 
37 Elevator 52 Courtroom 
pioneer plea 38 Lacoste 53 Criminal of tennis 55 Riga 
40 Eur.coal inhabitants region 58 Endured 42 Remove 59 Bullring the lid participant 
45 Bony 60 Shaped like 
48 Prayer book awing 
50 Minty aro-61 Chess matic herb piece 51 Wooden 62 On tenter­shoe hooks 
Wednesday's solution 

~------------------------------------------------­
THIS WEEKEND AT THE Engineering Auditorium 

'-------------------~·-·~--------------~--~~~~~ 

WEAR SHORTS GET DRINK SPECIALS 

Campus 
•1 
p.m. -Baseball, ND vs. Bethel College, Col­lege Park, Mishawaka 

•1 
-5 p.m. -Seminar, Career Alternatives Day for Architecture, Architecture Building Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "How to Read Dante's Comedy," Prof. Ernest L. Fortin, 715 Memorial Library 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Electron Transfer Reactions of Nickel-Oxime Complexes," Dr. Graham A. Lap­pin, Radiation Lab Conference Theatre 

•4:15 
p.m. -Meeting, ofthe Religion and Society Network Study Group, "The Notre Dame Study of Catholic Parish Life: Some Themes," Prof. David Leege, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Studies of Molecular Cluster Rearrangement Mechansims Using Isotopicly Labelled Boron Hydrides," Dr. Donald Gaines, 123 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Exchange of Genetic In­formation," Dr. Charles Radding, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Eigenvalues, eigenfunc­tions, and geometry of manifolds," Prof. Richard Beals, 226 CCMB 

•4:30 
p.m. -Graduate Fellowship Prayer Group Meeting, Bulla House 

•6 
p.m. -School of Architecture Banquet, South Dining Hall -Faculty Dining Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation, "Juniors: Begin Planning YourJob Search Now," Paul Reynolds, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, 118 NSH 

•7 
p.m. -Environmental Concerns Organiza­tion Meeting, Lewis Party Room 

•7 
p.m. -Panel Discussion Debate, Mock Convention 1984, Mike Francis, King Pfieffer and , George Brinkley, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
and 8:30 p.m. -Film, "Animal Farm," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Social Con­cerns, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Brothers and Sisters of the Toda Family," Washington Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Weavers, Wasn't That a Time?" Haggar College Center Parlor 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Printmaking," Teri Douglas Larkin, Annen berg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Faculty Recital, Dorothy Bryant on trumpet, Little Theatre 



Break Senior Bar 

---------------, 
Thursday, March 29, 1984 -page 12
S~orts 
Michigan shoots past Notre Dame to capture NIT Championship 
ByJEFF BLUMB field, connecting on only 39 percent within two by intermission with a Assista111 Sports liditor of their shots. Tom Sluby had a 12-2 spurt of its own. The Irish had rough night shooting-wise, making made only 32 percent of their shots 
NEW YORK -After trailing only only 7-of-20 ofhis shots. in the first half and were somewhat 2H-26 at halftime, the Notre Dame On the other hand, Michigan wa~ lucky to still be in the game as the haskethll team was outscored 20-4 very hot. The Wolverines hit 56 per-teams headed to the lockerroom. to opt·n the second half and fell to cent of their shots in the game, After the Michigan explosion to Michigan, H:\-63, in the finals of the including 19-of-26 ( 73 percent) in open the second half, Notre Dame National Invitation Tournament. the second half. fell behind by as much as 20 points, The spurt hy Michigan, which saw Tournament MVP Tim McCor-52-32. Going to a full court press the Wolverines outscore the Irish mick had 2H of Michigan's points on with Tim Kempton and joe Howard 
I :\-0 during one stretch, effectively 13-of-16 shooting. In addition, the 6-upcourt, the Irish whittled away at killed Notre Dame's <.-hances of its 11 senior, with one year of redshirt the lead over a five-minute span, at first NIT championship. eligibilty remaining, pulled down a one point narrowing the margin to 
"That was the key to the game," game-high 14 rebounds, six more 11, 59-48, on a Tom Sluby jumper off said Michigan coach Bill Frieder. than any Notre Dame player had. a Scott Hicks steal. "We had the <.·ushion and we had the "My teammates got the ball inside There was still plenty of time left gamt·. Spurts like that are nice to get to me real well," McCormick said of in the game with 6:04 remaining. because you don't get them often." his output. "And the shots were just The Irish, however, would get no 
"That spurt really hkw it," Notre falling for me today. We had things closer. Dame coach Digger Phelps said of really clicking." They pulled within II again with the Wolverine outburst. "The hoard From the beginning, one could . 3:14 left. Michigan, though, would play, tht-turnovt-rs, and the shots tell that this just wa'i not Notre not allow the Irish to reduce that that wouldn't fall just put us into a Dame's night. The Irish fell behind margin any further. The Wolverines, hok." by an 8-2 margin early before going 23-10, would eventually run off the 
The Irish, while hitting H4 percent down by nine twice in the halfat 24-final eight points of the game to go from tht· frt:e throw line, couldn't IS and .26-17. away with the 47th NIT Champion­comt· ncar half that mark from the Notre Dame wa'i able to get back ship. 
"If we had cut it to nine," won­dered Phelps afterward, "maybe something would have happened.

ND fencers take third 
Things happen when you get it down under ten." "I told the team, though, that I 
don't want anybody down. Nobody 

thought we'd win 21 games. Nobody By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL the overall structure of the tourna­thought we'd get to the finals of the Sports Writer ment which put all ofthe top fencers NIT. But these guys have taken a 
into one bracket. By having possible season and proven that they could The Notre Dame men's fencing semi-finalists and finalists eliminated See NIT, page 10 
at finals competition 
team concluded its 1984 season in early rounds, a team could not over break hy taking third place in a gain enough points to have a strong field of 35 teams at the NCAA Cham­shot at the title. pionships held March 20-21 at Prin­"The seeding committee did not 
Baseball season opens 

ceton. take the trouble to seed the thirty Coming in ahead of the Irish and fencers that were there as they finishing first a~ a team wa~ repeat­should have or could have," said 
Irish look promising in Texas trip
ing national champion Wayne State DeCicco. with 69 total points. Penn State "In the process of seeding it (the By ERIC SCHEUERMANN he does not exaggerate. The Irish Bond ofSt. Mary's hy a score of l-0. edged out the Irish for second with tournament) in the way that they Sports Writer certainly played no patsies, and most In the second contest, St. Mary's 50 points to Notre Dame's 46. did, they put a number of semi­of their opponents were already al­took control by scoring two runs in 
"Wayne State fenced three who finalists and finalists in the same A 4-7 record at the start of a most twenty games into their the third through the fifth innings. were all-Americans la~t year and preliminary pool. The first round baseball season does not usually give seasons. Notre Dame could score no more they won the national title last year," was supposed to be a seeding round hope for a successful season. But The Irish nine opened the season than three runs off Alan Sapp of St. said Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. and it really didn't tum out that that same 4-7 record owned by the with a game against a strong St. Ed­Mary's, and lost the game by an 8-3 "They were considered the team to way." Notre Dame baseball team is ward's team out of Austin, Texas. St. margin. Moran had a double for the beat and that's the way it turned "Mike janis, Mike VanderVelden, evidence of strong play over its Edward's entered the game with a Irish, while Metzler had two RBI. 
out." and Brian St. Clair were eliminated spring trip to Texas. I 7-4 record, and looked to sweep by The Irish were finally able to get 
"We had good and disappointing in the quarterfinals by indicators "I was very happy with the way Notre Dame for an eighteenth vic­back on the winning track in the results," continued DeCicco. "The (touches) despite their won-loss we played," said Irish head coach tory. next day's game against Mankato fact that we fmished third and have a records which were good enough to Larry Gallo. "We played some very The Irish took a I-0 lead in the State. A six-run rally in the bottom of trophy to show for it is the good move them up." good teams and managed to play first inning, and a 3-1 lead in the the eighth, powered by Metzler's part." well in almost every game." third inning. Each time, St. Edward's three-run double, enabled Notre 
See FENCERS, page 10 

DeCicco was disappointed with When Gallo speaks ofgood teams, tied the game, and in the fifth took Dame to take an 8-5 victory. the lead for good. Notre Dame could Trudeau smacked two doubles for never quite catch up, and started the the Irish, while catcher David Clark season with a 7-5 loss. went 3-for-3 at the plate. Pitcher 
junior outfielder Mike Trudeau jason Schomer relieved in the sixth led the Irish with three hits, while inning and collected his first win. second baseman jack Moran was Back on the winning track, the one-for-two with two RBI. Irish again met Trinity University in 
Next for the Irish was a game with a doubleheader. The team's bats ex­Trinity University. Pounding out ploded for seventeen runs in the two eleven hits and capitalizing on four games, leading Notre Dame to a pair Trinity errors, Notre Dame evened of wins by scores of 8-2 and 9-0. its record with a 4-3 victory. These two wins raised the team's 
Sophomore hurler Steve Powell record to 4-4, with three games left pitched a strong game to gain the on the trip. win, while senior Mark Clementz Unfortunately, the Irish would not came on in the ninth inning to win again. In a game against St. provide relief help. Moran and Mary's, the team was able to push senior infielder Mike Metzler each seven runs across the plate. contributed doubles. However. the Irish suffered a hard 
The Irish next faced northern defeat by an 8-7 score. rival Minnesota, a squad from the Big On the last day of the trip. Tevas Ten. Although Minnesota had just Lutheran took two close games from descended from the snowy north the Irish by scores of S-4 and 6-4. In also and had not played many games the first game, Steve Passinault led as yet, Notre Dame was unable to the Irish with a home run and a push its record over .SOO. Although single. Trudeau also contributed the Irish hung tough, Minnesota wa~ two hits to the Irish attack. Junior able to come away with a 7-4 vic­pitcher Buster !.opes took the tough tory. loss. pitching well in defeat. 
The very next day, the Irish suf­Lutheran hit two home runs in the fered two tough defeats at the hands second contest and played errorless ofSt. Mary's College ofTexas. In the baseball. The Irish could only col­first game, a beautiful pitching effort lect five hits, and once again fell just by Clementz was ruined as the Irish short. Passinault completed a fim­failed to score a run. Although he day with a douhlc for_the Irish. allowed only one run, Clementz lost out in the pitching duel to Mark See BASEBALL, page 9 






