

tht· imkpt·nt.knl '-llltknt nt·w.,papt-r '>t·n ing notn dame and .,aint mal)· FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 1984 
Harold Augustine dropped from Senior Fellow ballot 
ByJOHN NEBLO have a tie with the Notre Dame com· What does one have to do? It's kind StaffReporter munity; have directly affected the ofinteresting to me that at the whim lives of senior class members and of a committee they'd do this. I do 
Despite receiving an overwhelm­provided them with inspiration to not think there are grounds here." ing majority of nominations on two reach for higher ideals; and have suc­Even though the committee occasions, Harold B. Augustine has cessfully incorporated Christian decided Augustine was not been dropped from the Senior Fel· values into their lives. qualified, it did not remove him after low nomination lisr. Last night The committee contends that the first request for nominations Augustine called the situation Augustine has had no real effect on held March 7. "insulting." the senior class. Said James, "The al­In the first ballot, Augustine 
Augustine became known on cohol policy is the real issue here; received 60 of the 90 nominations, campus during Junior Parents' Harry was ex postfacto." and the second place vote-getter Weekend for his response to an Ob­Seniors Mark Manley, Joe Trustey received two. server Campus Comments question and John Marvin disagree and have James said, "We were concerned about alcohol use on campus in organized the Harold B. Augustine that the vote was somewhat of a which he said, "A wet campus is a for Senior Fellow Committee to farce or that it had been taken too happy campus." make their point. lightly. To keep this a serious matter 
According to Senior Fellow Com­"If he hasn't had an effect on we had to define more clearly why mittee Chairman Mike James, campus, then I don't know who has," some seniors wanted him on the bal· Augustine was dropped because "he said Trustey. "The man is a lot." fails to meet the criteria established legitimate candidate." James reopened the nominations 
by the committee." The three also emphasized the a week later. "The reason we had a The three-year-old criteria re­seriousness of the group's efforts. second ballot was because we didn't 
quire that Senior Fellow nominees "Never in our minds was this a joke," think enough of the senior class had said Manley. "Harry seems to us a voted." person who knows what it means to About 250 votes were cast in the be a Notre Dame student. We feel second ballot in which Augustine
Supporters point to Hart's 'beer 
he's a person who relates to the received 89 votes. Three people 

senior class." finished.second with five votes. Editor's note: This is the secondof increases, said Jaspers. However, Pellegrino is very satisfied with 
Marvin thinks there is something After the first ballot, James called 

four articles outlining the plat­Hart believes it is time that the U.S. the response the Mock Convention 
more at stake than the legitimacy of Augustine. "I asked if he felt he was forms and objectives of the can­redirect its defense funds. His has received on campus so far. 
Augustine's candidacy. "The main in a silly position, or if it was in anydidates who will be represented in opinion is that while American "Nearly 900 students volunteered to 
reason he's been dropped is that way demeaing to him," James said. the Mock Convention, April4-6 nuclear forces are sufficient, the be delegates during the first three 
they're afraid he will win," said Mar­"He said, 'No, I feel honored."' conventional forces need days of registration," he said. Hart's vin. "We feel that four people Last night in a telephone inter­
By KEITH HARRISON,JR. 

modernized. Therefore, saidJaspers, surprising victory in the Iowa shouldn't be able to decide who view, Augustine said, "Since I was
StaffReporter 

Hart advocates an expanded Naval caucus in February has greatly in­
wins. We're not saying he should asked by the committee, I find it fleet. creased participation in Pellegrino's 
win, or even that we'll vote for him, insulting to be taken off. They didn't"The beef is in the book," says H elected, Hart would continue own organization. 

but we do think he should be on the have to ask me, but they did."
freshman John Jaspers, a local coor­
economic aid to countries like El Sal­

There are a number of popular ballot." The committee decided thatdinalOr for the Gary Hart presiden­
vador if they showed genuine signs theories that attempt to explain James sympathizes with this posi­Augustine had been nominated as atial campaign. 

of progress in the area of human 

Hart's sudden emergence from the tion but still maintains that . symbol of discontent over the an­The "beef' that Jaspers refers to rights. "However," Jaspers said, "we pack of lesser known Democratic Augustine's candidacy is invalid. "As ticipated changes in alcohol policy.
are the major issues ofthe campaign; 

candidates. Some analysts attribute a committee we had to decide using Manley does not deny the allegation,the book is Hart's The New it to the support Hart has received the three criteria that had been an­but believes it is irrelevant. SaidDemocracy. Recently, front-runner from young group of urban white nounced before anyone's name had Manley, "His name and his seven­
Walter Mondale had questioned collar workers known as "Yuppies." been mentioned," he said. Fellow word quote are a symbol ofcampus
Hart's stand on the issues by asking, 

However, Jaspers said that his ex­committee member Anita Kraemer frustration."
"Where's the beef?" perience in the Hart campaign is that agreed: "H he doesn't meet the According to James, it was the
"Gary Hart is the only candidate 
!~: 

the Colorado senator is being sup­criteria, he can't be elected." political motivation behind
that has explained all ofhis views on ported by all ages and professions. Augustine, a 46-year-old engineer Augustine's nomination that con­
the major issues," said Jaspers. must avoid the morally untenable and general contractor in Fort cerned the committee. "Our deci­"That's why I don't see the validity of position of supporting the kinds of Hart first became involved in na· Lauderdale, Fla, said, ''I'm surprised sion as a committee was: do we wantMondale's remark." dictatorships that the U.S. fought in tional politics as a volunteer inJohn someone should say that I'm not to make the Senior Fellow a forum

Hart favors increasing taxes while World War II." Kennedy's presidential campaign. 
qualified and not discuss it with me. for seniors to speak out, or do wecutting bureaucratic waste in order Pellegrino and Jaspers will be By 1972 he was the campaign Jt doesn't seem right." want to stick to the tradition ofto reduce the deficit, according to stressing the issues again when the manager for the George McGovern honoring one person for the effectBernie Pellegrino, Hart campaign Mock Convention begins next Wed­organization. Soon after, he was Augustine believes he is a they've had on the Notre Dame com·

manager for the Mock Convention. nesday. They will give each delegate elected senator in his home state of qualified candidate for Senior Fel­On the subject of defense spend­a four-page summary of Gary Hart's Colorado. In 1980, Hart managed to low. "I've designed and built a Cath­
See AUGUSTINE, page 3 

ing, Hart advocates defense budget views and goals. be re-elected to the Senate. olic Church and a parish center. 

Maria Pieta Award nominations now open 
Special to the Observer values, and commitment to students and academic quality. 
Nominations will be accepted un­The award is named for Sister til April 3 from Saint Mary's students, Maria Pieta, who graduated from faculty and staff for the annual Maria Saint Mary's in 1922. Pieta Award. The award recognizes a Pieta spent most of her profes­faculty member for outstanding sional life serving the College in teaching in lower-division courses. various capacities, including teacher 
A committee of students, faculty of journalism, dean of students, and administrators will review the chairman of the theology depart­letters of nomination and submit a ment, director of the staff student slate of three candidates to the program, vice president of the Col­Academic Affairs Council for final lege ( 1955-1965), and alumnae­consideration and selection of the college coordinator. She retired in rectptent. The award will be 1969. presented at the Saint Mary's Honors The award was first presented in Convocation on May 7. I976. Past recipients include Sister 
The Sister Maria Pieta Award Cecilia Ann Kelly (art), Dorothy reflects the value Saint Mary's Col­Feigl (chemistry), Isis Quinteros 
The Observer/Paul Cifurelli
lege places on undergraduate teach­(modern languages), Unnea Vacca ing. Student participation is (English), Mark Bambenek 
Karen Wagner, Mary Rymarquis, and Anne Ar· 
chibald (from left to right) visit Mike Kawas at
important to the spirit of the award. (chemistry), Penny Jameson 

Art sale 
the Original Oriental, American and European
In writing letters ofnomination, stu­(psychology), Gail Mandell 
ArtSale in the LeMans Lobbyyesterday.
dents should consider a professor's (humanistic studies), and Ann Loux 
contribution to education and (English). 
The Obst:rv~r/Thom Bradley 
Harold B. Augustine, shown sitting in The Huddle during]unior Parents' Weekend, said he is "insulted" that the SeniorFellow com­mittee disqualified himfrom the honor. 


_j 


The Observer Friday, March 30, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
The most devastating swarm of tornadoes in 
live years killed at least 63 people, injured more than 600 others, dosed highways and destroyed hundreds of buildings on a march through North and South Carolina, and crews hunted today for more bodies at a flattened shopping center. President Reagan yesterday directed the Ft·deral Emergency Management Agency to do all it can to help the affected areas. He also said he expected any requests for disaster declarations would he fulfilled promptly.AP 
The drop/add deadline for all classes is today. Any course changes for this semester must he completed through the registrar's office before 4:~0 p.m. today. -The Observer 
Six new directorsof the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion havt.· hct·n named in nationwide voting by the 72,000 member organization. They will join tht· 19 present directors at a late April meeting on the campus and assume their official positionJuly I. The new directors are Joseph Reich Jr., Colorado Springs, Col.; James Barry Jr., St. Louis, Mo.; Ellen King, Salem, N.H.; Charles Morrison, Richmond, Va.; Michael Foley, Largo, Fla.; and Suzanna Behnke Car­ney, Cincinnati, Ohio. -The Observer 
Residents ofLeMans Hall elected Joanic Giblin president of the hall and Trisha Glomb vice president. The Giblin tkket received 61 percent of the vote, defeating the tickets of Debbie Rademacher and Debbie Hickey which received 22 percent and Maureen Karnetz and Amy Bertucci which received 16 percent. The LeMans hall election was held after the general election because no one had signed up to run in the general election. Election Com­missioner Anne Marie Kollman said that she was very happy with the turnout. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Mock Political convention Plat­form Committee last night opened its tentative platform to debate. Professors George Brinkley, Michael Francis and King Pfeiffer of­fered their opinions on the foreign policy portion of the platform. The modt·rate statement was generally well-received in its attempt to achieve a peaceful coexistence with the Soviet Union, although the dt·baters disagreed with various points on ll. S.-Soviet relations, Central American policy, and the directions for arms control. Pfeiffer stated that the arms control problem is more political than it is military. Brinkley expressed a widely-held opinion, "War now would be too risky, especially with a major power." The speakers agreed that the first step toward improved relations with the Soviet llnion is better communication. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
"The best party in town" this weekend is at the Century Center in South Bend. The Carnival for the Arts, sponsored by the Michiana Arts and Sciences Council, features live entertain­ment, music, dancing, food and drink tonight and tomorrow night from 6 to I a.m. Tickets are $6 in advance and S7 at the door. For more information call 284-9160. -The Obsen1er 
Interested in studying abroad next year? There is an informational meeting for all interested in Saint Mary's College's st·mester Around-the-World program Sunday. April! at 7 p.m. in 242 O'Shaughnessy. The program is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in any major. For more information call 284-5118. 
-The Obsen'£"1' 

Stations of the Cross will be held today and every Friday throughout Lent at 7: I') p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. -The 
Obsen•er 

Weather . 
Sunny today. with tempaarures rc.aching 49 degrt·es. Tonight it should he. dear and cool, rt·aching lows in the high 20's. Tomorrow it should be n>ntinued clear, tem­peratures in tht· high -tO's. -Tbe O!Jsert'er 
The Observer 
Tht· Ohserver ( l ~~~ ~'.1'.1 2 -HIOO) " puhli\ht·<.J ~lunda~ throut(h l;rtday anti on home: ftuHhall ".llurday~. t'Xt.'l'pl 
dunn!( t·x.am and \'ac.:ation pcriod!'l. The Observer is puhh!'ohc.:d hy lht.· ~ludl:"nt~ of llu· l'nht.·r~it}' of N•Hrt.• Damt.· and Saint Mary'!'i Colltgc.·. !"tuhs(.:riplion~ may he.:
4 

pun ha""d for S.l~ pt·r rear ( S I~ pt·r M'mrMt.·r) by "ruing The Obsenrer, P 0 Box Q. Nutrt: Damt·.lndiana ·J6';c;(l 
Th~ Ob~rv~r I• • mt·mber ofl'h~ As­soclat~d Pnss. All reprodul'tiun ri~ht> art.· rt.·st·rvt"d. 
Today·~ is~ut.· was prodw..·cd hy: 
Protlw:tiotl Consul/ant .. .... Stt.·vc Fostl'r Design Hditor ........ Thomas Roht:rt SmaH Dt.>si;.:n Assistant ... ........... Lisa \'isingardi Layrmt Staff.. ..... Dorothy Doran T)'pesel/ers ................................... Vi<' Sciulli 
Tr;u:y Bringanlnc:r Neu•s l:'dltor .......................... Dave Dziedzic CoPJ• Editor............................... Ed Konrady Sports CofJJ' lid/tor.............. Marc Ramirez Vit•upoint Lt~vout ............................ Paul Fealllro•s Copy Editor ............ Mary Healey 
Features Lt~)'out ...................... Mary Heah:y NO Day Editor....................)df Harrington SMC Day Editor............ Maggie O'Connell Ad /Jesig" ....................................... Bob Slota Photographer.......................... Paul Cifarelli 

'I I I 
LJ: 




Looking back on Chemistry 

Dear Dr. Hofman: 

So you are very upset to hear that there are cheaters in your class. Depending on how you define cheating, a case could be made that everyone there has cheated. The environment of your class makes it nearly impos­sible not to do so. But you should not consider this a personal affront. Few on this campus would argue that you are not a very honorable man who has done more for the freshmen at Notre Dame than any other in­dividual. 
It is the environment, not you, which enables cheat­ing. It is reasonable that your class was the one most frequently mentioned for cheating. Chemistry II 5-116 is probably the largest single class on campus, and there is probably no class in which it would be easier to cheat. 
Five hundred or more students in a close-packed ar­rangement taking a computer multiple-choice quiz! It requires effort to avoid glimpsing at least one answer on someone else's quiz, a least for those who prefer not to stare directly at a problem while thinking about it. Looking straight up at the ceiling is not much more comfortable. 
So suppose a student hap­pens to accidentally glimpse an answer to a problem. And yes, it happens accidentally. Very often it's irrevelevant because he can find the answer on his own. But what does a student do ifhe's torn between Band C, and knows that Mark has chosen B? It is not possible to forget that in­formation once it's known. So is the student cheating if he marks B? Or should he he stupid and refuse to mark H? Traditional Catholic schools say the question is moot: they'd trash the quiz for just having seen the answer, accidentally or not. 
Even ifyou don't consider that cheating, some cheat­ing goes on. It is easy to look at someone else's paper, much easier than in a liberal arts essay exam or in a technical course where some work must be shown. Some probably do depend on that ability to cheat in order to pass your course. 
But that should not disgrace your character. Are you really so vain as to believe that you alone could change the lives of these people who have so little personal contact with you, when they may have been cheating for years? Or that you alone have corrupted them? 
No, freshmen are under a lot of pressure from them­selves, parents, and others to succeed. Your class is the easiest one in which to relieve some academic pressure by cheating on occasion. That doesn't make it right, but it isn't your fault. 
One unusual thing you consider cheating is the 
You Can be a Navy Pilot 
months of graduation, under age 29 (30 for veterans) 
There are other Navy career opportunities available in: *Systems Inventory Management *Acquisition Contracting 
* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management 

* 
Nuclear Engineering 

* 
Flight Surgeon 


Starting Salary $17,500 plus medical benefits, travel, and rapid advancement. FOR MORE INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL: 
Navy Officer Programs at 
1-800-382-9782 
... 

Navy representative will be ON CAMPUS 10-12 April at the placement office. 
Tom Mowle 
Assistant News Editor 

Inside Frid 
review of old final exams. Very few classes forbid this; yours is the only one which comes to mind. It is an accepted, intelligent method of studying. Your rationale is obvious: you use many of the same ques­tions year-to-year. Well, that is in your power to change -either try harder to stop the leak of exams or, more reasonably, conform to the rest of the University and change the questions. 
Your course was not without value, although few 
would say it was their favorite. You taught rhe value of studying in groups, of using old quizzes which, paradoxically, you recom­mend -and of establjshing a study routine. • 
You also taught -some things which you didn't say you intended: how and when to cram for quizzes and then relearn for the final, and to accept bad grades with good without worrying about terrible con­sequences. 
Most students have a good opinion of you as a person. Hut your reaction to this ar­ticle, as reported by your current students, risks that goodwill. You seem to he taking this far too personal­
ly. The reaction by upperclassmen to the print-if-you­cheat, sign-if-you-don't honor policy is, quite honestly, that it's silly. No one who would cheat would have qualms about signing; it is downright stupid to admit to cheating in writing, anyway. 
Surely none of this is really news to you. Perhaps you had forgotten the faults of your class while you were upset. You care about freshmen, and they seem to be very devoted ro you. It is not your fault that srudents cheat. Some changes could be made in your class, but the most effective -splitting the class into smaller sec­tions -would also take away the main value of your class: it provided a degree ofunity for much oftht-fresh­man class. 
Sincerely, 

\ 
The Observer Friday, March 30, 1984 -page 3 



Student Senate renews compensation debate 
By MIKE MILLEN 
News Staff 
The ongoing controversy regard­ing compensation for student government members surfaced again at last night's Student Senate meeting. Once again, however, no decision was reached. 

The issue, which was first raised a year ago, has been debated through­out the tenure of Student Body President Brian Callaghan. Last night, Callaghan once again stated that "academic credit for certain positions will be possible" and stated that the program would be "like an internship." 
In its last meeting, however, the Senate did not pass any particular proposal, choosing to leave the deci­sion to the incoming body. 
In other business, a resolution ur­
ging graduating seniors to donate their room deposits to F .inancial Aid was unanimously passed. 
The proposal was frrst tried last year, and according to Callaghan, it raised over 513,000. Callaghan sees this as not only a chance for new alumni to make their frrst donation to Notre Dame, but also as a way to insure that "more students will get aid." 
Callaghan hopes to have a 50 per­cent participation rate, which would raise almost $25,000. A form will be sent out, and any senior who signs and returns it will automatically have the 550 deposit routed to Financial Aid; otherwise, it will be returned in the mail. 
Five-hundred dollars was donated to the Women's Care Center by a unanimous vote. The money was left over from the year's Social Concerns Budget, and will help the center pay for its 24-hour phone counseling. 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position : 
Advertising Design Manager 
e Previous design experience is preferred. 
e The job requires working in the afternoon and supervising a staff of advertising designers. 
e Submit resume and personal statement to Mark Worscheh by 5 p.m. Tuesday. For more information call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
oo~ ~<o~ DePaul University 
~0~  Review Course for the  
0 ~ _..\~"'a  November, 1984 CPA EXAMINATION  
~0~'  (June 13-0ctober 28)  

The 57th DePaul University CPA Review is now accepting applica­tions for the Summer, 1984, Review. The Review features live class­room instruction, an all-CPA/all-professor faculty, two convenient locations and session options, and special repeat tuitions. The last 56 reviews maintained: 
*70% or over pass/condition rate 
•over 85 medals and awards (statewide and nationwide) NO review can match the coverage, the instruction, the faculty and the experience of the DePaul CPA Review Course. For information 
call (312) 321·8640. 
LOOP DePaul Univllrsity, 25 E. Jackson Blvd. (Wabash & Jackson) Chicago 
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 6-9 p.m. Tuesday, Thursday, 6-9 p.m. Saturday, 9-12 Noon 
School of Accountancy DePaul University 25 East Jackson Boulevard Chicago, Illinois 60604 

SUBURBAN McDonalds Hamburger University 2715 Jorie Blvd. (York & Cermak) Oak Brook 
Please Check: 0 Loop 0 Oak Brook 

Please send me a brochure and application form for the DePaul University CPA Review Course. Name _______________________________________ 
Address-----------------------------------­
\ J0-1 

City __________________State _____ Zip 
-~ D~P.9.~' VtJiv~rsirv.. ~--:-~~-~. 
School ofAccountanc)t 

Arkie dinner 

Alumni Association Florida van receives favorable reaction 
By ROBERT SIENKIEWICZ 
News Staff 
Nothing but positive reactions have been received concerning the Alumni Association van stationed in Fort Lauderdale over spring break. 
"The whole student body greatly benefited from the hard work of the Alumni Association," said Mark Rolfes, Service Commissioner of the Student Activities Programming Board. 
The van provided for vacationing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents a variety ofservices, such as a Mass, message board, free phone 
calls, free information, parties.  and  two  
The uniqueness "headquarters," located  of near  the the  

Sheraton Yankee Trader Hotel at­tracted a variety of attention from the media. Two networks reported the story, as well as the local news agencies. 
Chuck Lennon of the Alumni As­sociation and Jeanine Gozdecki, chairwoman designate of the Stu­dent Alumni Relations Group, were responsible for the van's presence in 

Augustine 
continuedfrom page I 
munity? We decided to stick with the precedent, so we took Harry out of the running." 
Both James and Kraemer agree that Augustine should receive some kind of recognition from the senior class. "Have him come out and be with the senior class at graduation," said James. "Then they could make their statement without using the SeQ.i.or.Fe!lpw as the medium." 
Augustine recognizes the political significance of his nomination but 

INTERESTED IN BEING A PART OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEXT YEAR? 
Applications and Job Descriptions are now availablefor Student Government CabinetPositions and can be picked up in the Stud. Govt. Offices, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY UNDERCLASSMEN ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY 
Deadline Mon., April2 Questions?? Call Rob at 1088 ·-· -. ··-· ····· "-~ · ·--or Cathy at 1334 
Florida. The convenient location contributed to the success of the van. The future ofthis endeavor is up to the Alumni Association, said Rolfes. The Association is definitely interested and feel that the money was well spent. 
doesn't believe that it is· relevant. "If it's a student activity and a student vote, the students have the right to do their thing ....This appears to be the case of a minority trying to impose their will on the majority. That's not supposed to happen in this country." 
Augustine also rejected the idea of accepting any kind of alternative recognition. "That would be a cop out," he said. ''I'm not for any kind of cop out. I would be doing these stu­dents a disservice by allowing them to cop out. I would be contributing to the delinquency ofyoung adults." 
James claims he has no desire to take the decision away from the senior class. "I do want to put the ball in the hands ofthe senior class," James said, "but I also want to clear up the ambiguity about Harry being a joke. And I think they have to prove this to the senior class. If they can prove that he's not just some ig­norant statement about alcohol and that he has done something for the senior class, I'll put him back on the ballot." 
Eight others nominated for Fellow 
Eight people have been nominated for Senior Fellow, excluding Harold B. Augustine who was disqualified by the Senior Fel­low Committee. (Story, page 1) 
The eight are: 
Father Ed Malloy, associate 

provost; Mary Ann Roemer, special 
events and concerns coordinator at 
the Center for Social Concerns; 
Father Mario Pedi, rector of St. Ed's 
Hall; Dr. Kathleen Weigert, assistant 
director of the Center for SoCial 
Concerns; William Hickey, director 
of Food Services; Sister Jane Pitz, 
rector of Grace-O'Hara 
Townhouses; Accounting Professor 
Ken Milani; and Language Professor John Gatto. 
The top three vote-getters -Mal­loy, Roemer and Pedi -each received five votes. Augustine recefved 89 votes. . . ----­



View 
oint 
Friday, March 30, 1984 -page 4 
Seniors deserve chance to vote for Augustine 
ll is an outrage that the name of Harold B. Augustine, who once declared that "a wet campus is a happy campus," has been dropped from the list ofSenior Fellow nominees. 
While there may be more deserving persons for the high honor, the senior class has nonethell:ss been betrayed hy a committee of four students who alone decided that Augustine failed to meet the second of three qualifications necessary to he named Senior Fellow. 
The pitfall? The committee said Augustine has not directly affected the lives of the senior class and has not provided inspiration to reach for higher ideals. 
The seniors seem to disagn:c. When nominations were first taken, 60 of the 90 received were for Augustine; the next highest vote-getter received two. Apparently that was not enough for Senior Fellow Committee Chairman Mike james. Nominations were reopened. This time, Augustine received H9 of 252 nominations; the second place nominee got five. 
James and his committee are not f(>oling anyone. The real reason Augustine's name has been droppt·d is ht·cause the committee docs not want the award to become a political state­ment about the University's proposed change in the alcohol policy. But that is not the committee's prerogative, and it has acted irresponsibly in convincing it­self that it is. 
The logic seems painfully obvious. The Senior Fellow is -and always has been -determined hy the entire senior class. And if the seniors want a 46-year­old engineer who graduated from Notre 
Dame in 1959 as their Senior Fellow, then james and his committee should accept the mandate. 
One might indeed wonder why the seniors have embraced as their Fellow a person who, by chance, had his rather lively quote on the possibility of a dry campus printed in The Obseroer. Whether or not he has influenced the lives of the seniors is still a good ques­tion. But the situation is not as black and white as james would like.to think. 
james must realize that his commit­tee is the grand jury, not the judge. As long as there is evidence that some seniors are serious about nominating Augustine, fairness demands that james put Augustine's name on the ballot. 
After the first nominations, james called Augustine and asked if he felt the nomination was demeaning. Augustine called it an honor. Last night, Augustine called the removal of his name "an in­sult." We agree. Seniors should be given the opportunity to vote for Augustine. 
Harold B. Augustine has had an im­pact on the campus, and he is far more than just a quotation in a newspaper. Students met and. talked with him during Spring Break in Ft. Lauderdale where Augustine works. 
In Augustine, seniors have found the right mix of flippancy and disdain they have been trying to launch at the ad­ministration for four years. Long ago, the seniors lost hope with a University that wouldn't listen. Harold B. Augustine is the irreverent answer. Harold B. Augustine is a statement worth making. 
-The Observer 



Van shows potential 
Yes, it was a bit out of place. And the gan State student choose socializing at blue and gold banner was just a touch the Alumni van instead of in The But­on the heavy side. But the Alumni As-ton? sociation's van at Ft. Lauderdale did The events that were_~J>onsored went provide a useful service to th~ Hllh~tl:!·<ts''" ·ovet'~afi-Yf w~~I; 1 'tl1CH.igrt ''th~ · oa's~ball 
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents vacationing at the Florida resort. 
Many students took advantage of the WATS line, enabling tht·m to call home for free. Likewise, the messagt· hoard also appeared to he quite well received. lkyond that, however, little was provided to keep students from using the bars as the center of their socializ­ing. 
Part of the problem was the location of tht· van. While it was in a convenient area -ht·tween the two buildings of tlw Sheraton Yankee Trader Hotel ­thl· van was perched quite close to a rather putrid smelling dumpster. 
Other disadvantages included the lack of refreshments or food on the site and the very nature of the van which made it unattractive to students from other univcrsitil's. Why would a Michi­game was rained out and the St. Patrick's Day party suffered from being held in an unfamiliar hotel. We also question the tastefulness of advertising a Mass by towing a banner behind an airplane, one of the same airplanes that encourage at­tendance at wet T-shirt contests and all­you-can-drink happy hours. 
The van should make its pilgrimmage next year. But we hope in the future that its presence will not be ~ssociated with a crackdown and that a better site is found. The association also should look to expanding its services, such as providing emergency check-cashing and snacks. The van will never he an at­tcrnative to the bar scene, but it has proven its potential as a surrogate stu­dent center. 

-The Observer 

Exercise your First Amendment write. 
Have you read something in The Observer you didn't quite agree with? If so, why not write a letter to the editor. Letters must be well-written and typed. They must also bear the address, telephone number and signature ofthe author. 


I'M A
I'M AN 

WlSI~~~ 
TECH~~~1/
I
I 

I'M J~ST 


AND IGt\N
AG~~NlRY 
BE~T ~~lO
BOY/



I RfAG~N! 





Gary Hart's charisma 
•I 

hides his inabilities 
Now that we are safely beyond the ob­sessive "Super Tuesday" expectancy there are the usual questions about the front-running Gary Hart. Can he win the nomination and 
Max Lerner 

The Lerner column 
election? But the more important one is ­
can he govern? 

At ftrst I welcomed Hart's breakthrough be­cause I like political inventiveness. But I found Icouldn't take the TV huckstering, nor could I take Hart's eager, almost rdolW-Iike response to Pat Cadell's Grand Design for a quick, if im­probable TV victory. 
Then, leaning backward to be open minded, I damaged my eyes by reading all the magazine print on Hart I could find since 1981, when he could no longer conceal his Oval Office dream, and I glued myself to the fleeting images on a TV set that keeps me from . more frivilous pursuits. 
The results were mixed. There is some ap­peal in Hart's avoidance of both the knee-jerk hard conservatives and the knee-jerk tender liberals, and his effort to break the mold, and create a kind of Third Force which will pick the brains of intellectuals and come up with untried approaches. 
For a time the standard criticism in the early Hart interviews was that he was a lofty statemans-like thinker, but that as a politician he had a disabling "chill factor" which kept him from warming up to people and discover­ing how they live and think. 
But events have turned this topsy-turvey. He has shown, with Caddell, a wizadry at TV politicking and showmanship, mastering the new art of image-making as he once mastered what a dissidenr Pentagon group was saying about defense technology. 
Caddell and Hart discovered a vacuum in the public's perception of the candidates, and moved into it with a history-making swiftness. Maybe that will go down as the most success­ful of Hart's "new ideas." 
But has he mastered what counts in presidential governing? For me ftve things count -experience reflected on, self knowledge, judgment in decision making, 
spine, and character. 

Alas, I don't see much evidence of them in 
Hart, especially of the last three. Robert Kaus, 
who did the now classic piece on Hart in the 
Washington Monthly for October 1981, has a 
follow up piece in the current New Republic 
on "Gary Hart's idea collection." With one 
"idea" of Hart's after another he documents 
how skillful Hart has been in basing them on 
tax incentives and relocation allowances, and 
thus evading -and even hiding -their real 
costs to the public. 

I don't feel that Hart's skills in whatever is 
trendy, faddist and gimmicky are enough to 
prepare him to be president. In the end it is a 
matter of character, which sets the large~ 
frame within which to study Hart. 

1
There was the lost second syllable of his 
. 1
family name, Hartpence. There was the lust year of his age, which made him 46 not 47. 
. I1
There was the lost Hart mtellectual detach-f 
ment, as the hot TV cameras grew more 
caressing. There was the corner trimming that 
caught him up as the groupies and star-seekers 
clustered around him. 

It is thus that one must evaluate his almost 
incredible response to john Chancellor's 
question about the hostile Czech plane invad­
ing American airspace at 2 a.m. What would 
each candidate, as president, do about it? 
Hart's answer: ··If the people in the airplane 
had uniforms I'd shout it down. If they were 
civilians I'd let them go." It was a ghastly gaffe, 
worthy ofJerry Ford's "Poland" bit, or Jimmy 
Carter invoking Amy on nuclear war. No won­
der John Glenn, who had some pilot ex­
perience in his career. had a delighted laugh. 
"You don't go peeking into the windows," he 
said. 

What made it worse was Hart telling repor· ters later he was only joking, and then refusing to answer further questions on it. What a time and place and subject for a joke! 
!like the Pericles idea that the art ofgovern­
ing consists in the development of character. 
In Hart's political fortunes the character fac­
tor may yet overtake the image-making factor. 
Max Lerner is a nationally syndicated columnist and holds the Welch Chair of American Studies at Notre Dame. Copyright 
(C) 1984, Los Angeles Times Syndicate. 

The Obser:ver·~-Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O.BoxQ,NotreDame,IN46556. .,... ·1'"·(219)239-530B"n'ul<nJ _~..;:"···. ··J~l>·nf.>r,,. 11; . :·•.o\>~·v. ·•'\ • ''" . .nw·: . r" rr·J, "'· ·'· Jnl!-. .4,,.£dttor-m-Chtef . ......... Bob Vonderheide l ·1·'' Busmess.Manager :::tJL!. ..... Dal.4e Ta1clet · .d~ 11 , <~ :' •lrrn , r-.ni lyfanf!,ging Editor ·1mm,, ·... Mark Worscheh, J Cont.rp/lf!r ""~ ... ; ,.,. ...... Manipat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspa. per publisheq by the St\ld~p~s o.. f -~~~, ,,1 ,.,;r1 1 Exec,ut(v.~. Ed,ito.,r 1nr<'"t';"'H"! Ma~garet Fosmoe ,,.) 1 ,Advwtifiqg,Manager1 ~J 1 , :• •.•• J~~ie \oo~e , University of Notre Dame du ~ac an? Saint Mary's College, J1 does n<?~,n,ecessanly . ,q,1,.1 fi,News Edtt~r . :·:..•il"rJ'tlil! .. , ~?,rilh Ham1lto~ 11 1..,~"CI{/r/'RP, yanager_. 1.1 1.....,r.~ff ~_Neill reflect the policies of the admm1strat1on of e1ther mst1tut1<?!\ Th~ news IS reported_ as ..T , Hmr!Vews Edtt~r .. ... : iJ!".J•i .• D~p McCullough . , ..• §Yst1T.i/f{fll(lger. 'r!Jioi: .. Key,'.'N\YIIIiams 1accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned edltori~ls represent the opin1on · Samt Mary sEdlfol ..... Anne'Monastyrskl . 1 · of a majority of the Editor:raJ Board Cot'nfnentaries, letter~ arid the Inside Column tllP• -.~ 'J1Sports"E'ditbtt;!.') 1•1.~·,;?',~!": ';.~'.?~.a'el ~1liV'an~~.:~ ••. . . '""· present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Vtewpomt Edt tor ............. !Ja'Ve Gt6te Fo·~~ded Noven.uer 3, 1966 community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor .............. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Edttor . ............... Pete Laches 
-.. -........... ~ ~ ·-•·:""" <f'.r-..··.::-­


~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t__________________Fr-ida~y,_M_arc_h-30-,19_8_4_p-ag~e5 
The Ratings Game and Notre Dame 
Colleges and numerical rankings go togeth­er like butter and bread. It seems1that we al­ways want to know if our sports te~ are in the top twenty, the number of volumes we 
RandyFahs 
Friday analysis 
have in the library, or how much money we have in the endowment fund. 
These are numerical statistics which we use to compare our progress against other col­leges and universities. But still, one might be led to ask, "How good is Notre Dame?'' 
Before I tread further on this delicate topic, I must qualify my statements by saying that I am no expert and that they are my personal opinions. But there is some validity to them since I have had the chance to visit more than 30 institutions of higher learning through my travels and my quest to choose a law school. 
Almost any college handbook will list Notre Dame in the "most competitive" category of admissions standards. These guides will speak of the size of our library, the faculty-student ratio, and our national reputation to name just 
a few. These are ambiguous and in some in­stances mislesading descriptions. 
The students that come to Notre Dame are highly motivated and intelligent individuals. They tend to be fairly well-rounded and in­volved in a multitude of extra-curricular ac­tivities. Prospective employers and graduate school admissions committees have been highly impressed with the "Notre Dame Product." 
One criticism is that our student body tends to be relatively homogeneous in its back­grounds. Also, while the average Domer may grumble from time to time, he or she is slow to question or act against established authority and norms. 
The Notre Dame faculty is not listed among the most prominent in the nation. This finding is misleading because faculty quality ratings are based upon their volume of publications. It is difficult to rate teaching ability and acces­sability to students, but these are far more im­portant than the number of books or articles that a professor has published. I believe that our faculty is one of our greatest assets and that they are amongst the finest in the nation. 
The campus itself is a beautiful and very comfortable place to study. The atmosphere is conducive to learning and growth. Too many college campuses are sterile and uninviting. If one is to evaluate the actual facilities then I must say we get mixed reviews. 
Academic buildings, especially the newer ones, seem to define the term "functional". They have very little architectural creativity. A building like O'Shaughnessy is ludicrous with its long, narrow classrooms and doors which open outward into the hallway. 
The Memorial Library is one of the largest private library buildings in the world, but barely half of its floors have books on them. While strong in certain areas, the library tends to be weak in the diversity ofits collection and the rate at which new publications are ac­quired. 
Much has been said and written about a Notre Dame student center (or the lack there­of). I will say that in all of my visits that "NO" other college or university of moderate to large size has a student center which is as poor as ours. LaFortune is grossly inadequate in its size and variety ofofferings for a place that has nearly 10,000 students. 
Notre Dame has one plague which at many universities is a beneficial guiding force. I am speaking none other than our overabundance of Administration interference. Most college students will voice some complaints about the way that their school is run, that is normal. 
But very few college administrations are so unwilling to listen to the views of their stu­dents. Students at other coJieges often laugh and wonder if I am kidding when I explain such things as the fact that an all-nigt.t parie­tals violation results in separation from the university. 
Reputations tend to lag behind the actual quality of a college at any point in time. The most important thing to examine is the quality of the specific program one is pursuing. A na­tionally renowned college can still offer sub­par programs. Also, if a student is not comfortable or happy, then no matter how good the program, the person is not likely to get excellent training. 
We should not get too hung up on the fact that Notre Dame is a fine university. There are many areas for improvement and we must critically examine the good and bad things which we have to offer. It is easy for improve­ments to be filed away in things like the PACE report. 
Notre Dame has never opened itself up for public critique and this may be the key thing which is preventing Notre Dame from becom­ing a truly great university. 


P. 0. BoxQ 
Goodbye McGinn 
DearEditor: 
One should thank the Lord that Paul 
McGinn, The Obseroer's former Executive 
Editor, is graduating in May. His long history if 
inaccurate and improper columns has only 
brought considerable frustration to the sen­
sible reader. 
A case in point is his last column 
(hopefully) of March 16. In it his bitterness 
against the world, which has blinded him from 
reality, reared its ugly head again in the fury of 
charges he made against Father Hesburgh. 
Sadly, at least one such accusation is starkly 
untrue. McGinn writes that Hesburgh "does 
not 1want to lose control of a university he 
built from literally nothing." 
This premise stated, McGinn goes on to say that instead ofaccepting a position ofchancel­lor, Hesburgh "decided (prompted by fawning trustees) three years ago that he did not want to hand over his title to someone else." According to McGinn, in other words, Hesburgh was glad to accept the job of presi­dent for five more years. 
To set the record straight for the unknow­
ing and unaware, Hesburgh felt exactly the 
opposite: he appeared a tired and depressed 
man at the press conference announcing the 
extension ofhis presidency. While no one can 
say positively how Hesburgh truly felt except 
he himself, one can in any case reasonably 
presume that a leader of any institution for 
over a quarter century who expresses his 
desire to step down may be actually speaking 
sincerely. 
One need not prove this, however; the bur­
den ofproofproperly rests on he who accuses 
another of deception. The accuser here 
though, McGinn, does not even attempt to 
substantiate his reckless charge. Instead he 
resumes his column of condemnation. I can 
only say in reaction that disillusionment is no 
excuse for publicly maligning anyone. 
McGinn owes Father Hesburgh a great apol­
ogy. 
Michael]. Beaudine junior 

Stupid squabbling 
DearEditor: 
The past few months in The Obseroer have been disappointing ones for me. It seems that every gripe, large or small has been prominately displayed on the Viewpoint/P.O. Box Q page. Sometimes I agreed with the authors (yes, even you Randy Fahs ), but usual­ly I didn't. 
I'm afraid that many people here at Notre Dame fail to think before they write. I could cite endless examples, but I think I'll stick to one of our latest "dilemmas": cheating in Dr. 
Hofman's Chemistry class. 
Yes, people do cheat in Dr. Hofman's class; perhaps not a vast majority, but certainly a vast number. From my freshman year ex­perience, I knew people who exclusively cheated and others who merely "confirmed" their answers with a neighbor's. 
Is this a cause for Dr. Hofman to feel dis­graced? Only if he is as naive as some of our letter writers seem to be. Is it a reason to make some constructive changes in the class? Per­haps. Students, even at Notre Dame, do cheat. Signing, printing or using hierglyphics won't change that. Sorry kids, Notre Dame is not paradise -it does baw its warts. 
People at Notre Dame are told so often that they are elite that they soon begin to believe it. How about reality, huh? The Obseroer could really reach great levels and do the com­munity a great service if we were more ob­jective and thoughtful in our writing. The moralizing, crying over hurt feelings and in­significant squabbles that fill the paper are making it more of a rag than an intelligent forum for the Notre Dame community. 
Philip Carmichael Senior 


A common problem 

DearEditor: 
The current issue of academic honesty has been bothering me. I don't want to believe that a majority of students cheat in Dr. Hof­man's class or in any class, but I am shocked by the naivete of Nanette Penz, Anne LaFlamme, and Stephen O'Neill. In their letters, they all expressed an idealistic view that the estimates of cheating were exaggerated. I would dis­agree. 
We live in a society where cheating is al­most accepted. Indeed, cheating, and its companion, lying, have reached epidemic proportions in America. Through Orwellian doublespeak and doublethink and lax morals, we've convinced ourselves that we've done nothing wrong. 
On the contrary, how many of us have ac­cepted money under the table for a job? How many of us have cut in line either at the movies orat the dining hall orfor concert tick­ets? How many of us have lied to our parents about where we've been or what time we got in?. And most importantly, how many of us have gotten into a bar under-aged by using a fake ID? 
Notre Dame is not immune. We may be ahead of many other universities, but we're not the paradise that Joe Murphy describes in his column ofMarch 27. Ask the students who 
go ouf,!q,fR,C()?.¥~.!ln.<l return with slM~J~.eer mugs. Ask anyone at WSND how many records are stolen each week (As a OJ, I can speak from experience. It is not uncommon to play a record one week and have it disappear by the next.). 
This dishonesty is a national disease that does touch academics. In my private, Catholic high school, I was considered strange because I didn't cheat. I don't cheat; I never have. 
I'm, sure there are many people like me in Dr. Hofman's class, but I cannot make an ac­curate statement about the situation because I do not take Chemistry 115-116; however, my roommate and many ofmy friends do, and I've been told by more than one of them that scoping does occur. 
I'm sorry that Dr. Hofman was hurt; however, to me, the situation does not dis­grace his reputation. As Stephen O'Neill points out in his letter of March 28, Dr. Hof­man "distributes a single version to each class and urges his students to conduct themselves ethically during the examination period." 
Stopping scoping among 500 students is a difficult task for one professor and two teach­ing assistants. The students.are-.the ones dis­graced, not Dr. Hofman. They have a teacher who trusts them, yet they stab h im in the back. 
I am an optimistic person by nature, but, at the moment, the words ofBillyJoel echo con­tinuously in my mind: "Honesty is such a lone­ly word. Everyone is so untrue." 
If we here at Notre Dame are the hope of the future, I need some reassurance, some proof, that we are who we claim to be: brothers and sisters of Christ. The cheating and lying must stop not only in academics, but also in our lives. 
DonaldSeymour Freshman 
Where is the evil? 

DearEditor: 
I write in response to an article which claims that the U.S. is the evil empire in this world. This is not the ·case. Unlike the US, which has not annexed any country since World War II, the Soviet Union since World War II has annexted Latvia, Esthonia, Lit­huania, Western Poland, Bessarabia (Romania), Ruthenia (Czechoslovakia), Mol­davia (Romania), Bukovina (Romania), East­ern Finland, Northern Finland, the Kurile Islands Qapan), Sakalin Island Qapan), and Eastern Prussia (Germany). 
Besides these countries and territories an­nexed outright, the Soviets also exercise con­trol over many countries in Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa, and even in the Americas only ninety miles from our shore. 
Thus, to the question ofwhich power is the evil empire on this globe, there is only one answer: The communist Soviet Union which is incessantly exporting revolution, hate, and tyranny to countries which Moscow eventual­ly makes part ofits "Evil Empire." 
Frank lopez Sophomore 


Guarino mistaken 

DearEditor: 
I have just read Theresa Guarino's editorial about the inappropriateness of the name "Belles" for the Saint Mary's athletic teams. I am inclined to agree, especially in light of the emphasis on women's issues and oppor­tunities at Saint Mary's. 
This "archaic idea," however, dates only to the mid-1970's, when I was a student at St. Mary's. I have to point out what present stu­dents do not know: what Miss Guarino calls an "obsolete custom" was chosen by students in a name contest in 1975. 

I doubt many will disagree; the name is not the best. But a halfhour's research-a phone call to Saint Mary's Archives -would have eliminated the assumption that the name is a holdover from "archaic" history. In news writing (even editorials), accuracy breeds credibility. 
Ellen Bussing Pugh SaintMary's Class of1979 


How much longer? 

DearEditor: 
As a senior approaching my final weeks 
here at the dome, I would like to leave one 
thought behind. I leave this thought to my fel­
low domers so that they may perhaps better 
the situation which I am about to discuss. 
For 4 years I have been a great hockey fan. I 
have had many. acquaintances with past as 
well as present players and I have shared many 
of their wins and losses. Notre Dame always 
has been able to recruit some ofthe top hock­
ey players from the U.S. and Canada 

Yet, with all this talent, I have seen them lose many games which they should have easi­ly have won. This year was probably the most disasterous as we saw a highly talented team lose a club level league championship. 
The problem here does not appear to be with the players but with the coaching. Since the program ftrst started at N.D., there has not been a change in head coach. That is quite a long time to keep a coach whose winning per­centage wasn't over .500 until this years club season. Notre Dame does not have a reputa­tion of keeping losing coaches around that long -not 16 years. 
Why now? They have let a Division I power­house get ruined and the players and the fans have been victims of this chaos and I am one fan who is tired ofit. WAKE UP NOTRE DAME. IT'S TIME FOR A CHANGE. Let's not ruin this next opportunity for Division I hockey again. 
Steve Splaine 

----~­
Records 


'Ammonia Avenue' sounds familiar 
Kevin Williams 
features staffwriter 
T
he: Alan Parsons Project has done 
n agam. 
Litt·rally. 
Ammonia Ar'enue, the group's 
latt'M effort, will not bt· long remem­bered ti>r its originality. The sound is purt· Alan Parsons Project, but it's not twu• Alan Parsons Project. For t·xamplc:, tht· score to tht· title track could he taken almost directly from tht· group's prc:vious studio album, 
lo:ve in the Sky. And so, for that mat· 
tc:r, could the first song, "Primt· Timt·." Still anotht·r song, "You 
Don't lklkvc:," appc:art·d in it~ en­
tirc:ty on the group's previous 
relc:ase, The Best oftbe Alan Parsons Project -hut that dot·sn't count. 
All of this is not meant to imply that Ammonia Ar,enue is without mt·rit. Far from it. Evt·n when he's not being orignal. Alan Parsons is still one of the great masters of the mixing board. The results he ac­hieves with the saxophone line can leave you wondering ifMd Collins is rc:ally playing a saxophone and not a 

synthc:sizc:r. But he does this with­
out making album sound over­
producc:d. In the same way, Eric 
Woolfson's voice: ends up sounding 
richc:r and more: texturc:d than 
humanly possible. 
The: bc:st fc:aturc: ofAmmonia Avenue is without a doubt the lyrics. 
As is tradition with the: Alan Par­sons Projc:ct, the songs arc: con­nc:ctc:d by an underlying thc:mc:.Eve was a commentary on women's status in socic:ty, The Turn ofa Friend~y Card could be: summt:d up by the: title: ofone: cut on that album, "Gamc:s Pc:oplc Play,"-and so on. 
Ammonia Ar,enue usc:s the anal­Ob'Y ofa male-fc:malc: relationship to c:xamine the impact of technology on modem society. The: entire first sidt· dc:scribes a step-by-step deterioration ofa good relationship with such lines as: 
Something in the air Maybefor the only time in my life 

Something in the air Shadows talk in the night Turning me around andguiding Living out a fantasy 
me right Slipping into dreams followed in the next song by: Nothing is the way itseems and I'm waiting till the sun goes down continuing with: 
Gimme onegood reason why I should listen to you 
and finally: 

Run away and bidefrom everyone Can you change tbe things we've said and done? 
It isn't until the second side ofthc album that a reference to technol­ogy is made: The silverplated beru Meets the golden hearted whore 
The rc:st ofthe ofthe album dcvolops the thc:mc, climaxing with the optimistic title cut, "Ammonia Avenue." 
The: brightest feature ofthe album is that Alan Parsons can carry the theme with a subtlety that allows any song to stand by itselfwith no explanations necessary. To fully ap­preciate this, one nc:ed only comparc.Xmmo#id"Avenue with Styx'Kilroy was Here. The themes are comparable, but songs like "Mr. Roboto" seem somewhat ridiculous when taken out ofcontext. 



who deserves to be famous 
asks Schroeder what he's going to do in school for "Show and Tell." Schroeder, in answer, plays a flaw­less Beethoven sonata on his piano, and then asks, "What are you going 
to do, Charlie Brown?" Charlie 
Brown's round face stares out of the 
page, embarrassed to be upstaged by 
brilliance: "Actually, what can you 
say about a little red truck?" Once, 
when).B. and I were visiting In­
nsbruck on the same day, I played 
Charlie Brown to his Schroeder. 
Standing on a street corner, I 
nooded "ja" to a string ofquestions 
put to me in Austrian by a local priest, as jim listened. When the 
native cleric left, Jim told me I had 
informed the priest that I was a country pastor in a Bavarian village 
famous for its wood carvings. Be­cause it seemed so funny, my little 
red truck didn't mind being out­
classed by the tinkle ofSchroeder's 
piano, capable, incidentally, ofan in­1
ternational medley oflanguages. 
"Let us now praise famous men." 
One of them who has a birthday 
coming up represents a religious 
community I am proud of. Jim 
Burtchaell stories belong to the 
tradition ofour Holy Cross scholars 
who are also pastoral. Once, a stu­
dent, faced with the death ofhis 
father, asked Burtchaell at his 1 l p.m. Mass to come by and pray with him. Sleep overtookJim before he left his room. Waking in the middle ofthe night, he walked the length of 
•he campus to the student's room, to apologize for coming so late. In the deep, dark night of the soul, Scott Fitzgerald says, it is always three o'clock in the morning. The story may or may not be true in the form I heard it, but it is typical ofpriests and brothers available for ministry at hours when time goes slowest. 
Coming back to Notre Dame the 
week my mother died, I wanted 
some sign that somebody else cared 
about a grieftoo private and per­
sonal to be easy to talk about. Arriv­
ing at Pasquerilla West, I found Jim 
Burtchaell had left a Mass vestment 
made out ofraw silk in my room 
which he asked me to accept in 
memory of my mother. It is so per­
fectly Burtchaellian, I shall probably 
wear it next to my winding sheet, 
when the Lord God will appreciate 
the elegance for which the silk 
worms ofChina gave their lives, and 
not judge that I have come to Him in 
borrowed robes. 
"Let us now praise famous men." 
The work which is one ofJim's chief 
credentials as a thoroughbred is his 
book "Rachel Weeping." WhenJiht­
my Carter came to Notre Dame as a 
presidential candidate, Father Hes­
burgh made the.1?r?m}s'i,f~~-t..~9V~-11,r Dame would sponsor a study of· abortion by scholarly experts, away from the angry polemics ofstreet 
demonstrations. Jim Burtchaell, ac­ting on behalfofFather Hesburgh, arranged for an abortion con­ference, for which he received great criticism by traditionalists, who felt 
that pro-abortion proponents 
shouldn't have been invited. Later, 
he had all the papers printed as a 
book. Then, after the other opinions 
were available,Jim wrote the 
definitive study ofabortion himself, 
taking a year off so that in his book, 
halfa million words long, he could 
explore all the myths and present his 
conclusions in an informed way. The 
reviews praised "Rachel Weeping" 
in its service to truth. I love the professionalism supportive ofFather 
Hesburgh's promise on the dayJim­
my Carter came. I love the courage 
that could put up with being mis­
judged. Bitter criticism can make life 
seem very lonely. 

"Let us now praise famous men," before the dying oftheir light. Jim Burtchaell once complained to me: "You have canonized me without due process." Happy birthday, Jim. It's only halfas bad as it's going to be when you're a hundred, and we know the whole story. Community legends are notoriously imaginative; that's what makes them such fun. I would rather unknowingly exag­gerate to a man's face, than do it deliberatel~ind his back, at the wake where he can'tdefend himself. Praising one ofour own is an act of love for the Holy Cross community. 
Fr. Stephen Gibson at 12:15 
•MISCELLANEOUS John Finnis, the third lecturer in the 1983-84 Perspectives Series on The Philosophy ofLaw, will lecture today at 
3:30 in the faculty lounge ofthe library. Finnis will discuss "Emaciated Reason: Authority and Game Theory". 
Tonight and tomorrow night, the Carnival for the Arts·will take place in the Century Center at 120 So. St. Joseph Street. The event will run from 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. both nights and is quoted as being"The Best Party in Town". During the weekend, Century Center will be transformed into a carnival offun and entertainment. "Femme Mys­tique au drag" will feature a cabaret in the Moulin Rouge, Bourbon Street will return hosting "Dixieland Music" as well as Seafood Bars. ATouch ofBroadway, "GottaSing, Gotta Dance," a sing-a-long, and a community showroom will present live shows every hour. An Irish Pub serving "pub grub", a German Restaurant equipped with an Oompa Band, International food booths lining various floor shows and an Ice Cream Parlor will all be part of the carnival to please the continental connoisseur. Admission to the carnival will be S7 at the door and S6 ifpurchased in advance at the Century Center box office or at any Valley American Bank. 

I 



Sports Briefs 
Saint Mary's defeated Notre Dame twice yesterday 
in softball to open their season by scores of 12-2 and 18-4. In the first game, Anne Trapp hit a grand slam and helped Saint Mary's score seven runs in the fifth inning. Annie Day was the winning pitcher. In the second game, Saint Mary's scored even runs in both the first and fourth innings as Julie Keigher picked up the victory. Saint Mary's now stands at 2-0. and plays a doubleheader at home tomorrow against Bethel, starting at 1 p.m. -The Obseroer 
Wotnen's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups 
will be held tomorrow, March 31 from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in the Chautauqua Ballroom. Fee for the tourney is $5. Teams are limited to 7 players, only one ofwhich can be a varsity player. This will be the only opportunity to sign up for this tournament. Questions can be directed to Patty at 1313 or Kathleen at 1618. -The Observer 
There will be a meetingofall club presidents at 6 
p.m. this Sunday, April I, in the ACC football auditorium. Ifyou have any questions, call Rich O'Leary at 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
Interhall field hockeyrepresentatives will have a 
meeting Monday, April 2 in the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
The ND Weightli.fting Club will have a 
meeting Sunday, April I, in the Rockne gymnastics room. All are welcome. Future competition will be discussed. -The Obseroer 
Soccer and baseball officials are needed for 
the NVA spring season. Anyone interested should go to the NVA office at the ACC. -The Obseroer 
Aerobic Exercise Instructors for next year 
are being sought by NVA. Qualified applicants should contact the NVA office this week. -The Obseroer 
NVA Aerobics Classes are now underway at the 
following times: Mondays and Wednesdays at 4 p.m. and 5:15p.m., and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. Classes are held in Gym I ofthe ACC. -The Obseroer 
Interhalllacrosse representativesshould 
call the NVA office by today, March 30, at 239-6100. There will be a meeting April I at '5 p.m. at the office. -The Obseroer 



Classifieds 
Friday, March 30, 1984 -page 8 
A Bookstore Basketball-...scorekeepers' meeting will be held Tuesday, April 3 at 6:30 p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theater. Anyone interested in scorekeeping for the tourney, includ­ing those already signed up, should attend the brief meeting. -The Obseroer 
An Tostalinnertube water polo still has a few spots left for your team. Signups will be taken on a first-come, first-served basis at the Rockne Memorial pool, April2-3 from 6 to 8 p.m. Bring rosters, 57 fee and team name. -The Obseroer 
The squash ClUb will host a tournament April 6-8 for players at all levels. It is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign­ups will be April 2-'5 at the ACC courts. For more information, call Sean at 277-1405. -The Obseroer 
Mud Volleyball Sign-ups are Monday, April 2, from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. Rosters must total six players, and there is no entry fee. Prizes will be awarded in the competition. -The Observer 
Ultimate Frisbee Sign-upsare Monday, April 2, 
from 6-7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. Rosters should include 10 
players and there is no entry fee. Prizes will be awarded in the com­
petition. -The Obseroer 
The Women's GolfTeamwill have a man¢atory meeting on Monday, April 2 at 6:30 p.m. at Corby Hall. Traveling rosters for upcoming trips will be arranged. -The Obseroer 
NCAAVolunteers forYouthwill sponsor a car­
wash tomorrow, March 31, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Mike's Maplelane Amoco at 1706 South Bend Ave., weather permitting. Cost of a carwash is $2, and proceeds will go to the Notre Dame chapter of the NCAA-VFY. -The Obseroer 
Start warming up for the NVA tennis tournament. Each hall may enter one team, and the entry deadline is Wednesday, April 4. More details will be given here at a later date. -The Ob­seroer 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golf course. It's coming up Satur­day, April 14 at 10 a.m. Deadline for entries is Friday, April 6. Registration must be made in person at the' \'tvA office, and a J3 fee will be charged. Trophies and t-shirts will be awarded. -The Ob­
seroer 
•

Coaches 
continuedfrom page 12 
previously spent one year as the NFL New England Patriots' linebacker coach in 19!H. For the three seasons before that, he served as defensive coordinator and linebacker coach at Miami -working the first two years under Lou Saban and the last two un­der current Hurricane coach Howard Schnellenberger. He also put in six seasons on the Navy staff, coaching the line and serving as defensive coordinator. In 1975, Navy ranked third nationally in total defense and sixth in pass defense. Lantz has also coached at Boston University, Rhode Island, and the University of Buffalo. In 1969, the Bulls finished third nationally in to­tal defense, sixth in scoring defense, 
and eighth in rushing defense. 
"We're happy to be able to add a coach of Rick's caliber to our staff," said Faust. "He's coached all three levels of defense and has con­siderable experience as a coor­dinator, so we feel he'll 1 be well-versed in every aspect·· of defensive football. He helped t<T in­stall many of the things Miaml is 
doing  defensively  now,  and  
everyone knows the  success  they  
had this season."  

Lantz, who has coached against the Irish ten times during his years with Navy and Miami, agrees with Harris that this Irish coaching staff is the most experienced he has ever worked with. 
"I've seen a lot ofpositive signs so far," said Lantz. "We four defensive coaches agree philosophically on how we want to do things. We all have pretty much the same style of coaching. Our goal is to be relaxed and play a team game. If we play to our potential, we should be a very competitive team defensively. 
"The defensive line could be our deepest position. We have at least two dependable players at every spot, which is good because the players won't have to pace them­selves too much. We're also going to have a lot ofcompetition for playing time up front, which is good. The players have positive attitudes jind they've been practicing hard." ., 

The Obseroer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortun, · Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Obseroer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­ters r da 
Lost: Brown wallet during spring break.  
 PENROD'S NORTH  Christine H..  Sorry I missed our long­ ANNA  PRICE.  HAVE  A  HAPPY  
Reward. It found call4570 ask tor Carrie  FOR SALE  FT. LAUDERRDALE"S FINEST 2B NO APTS 820 ,  awaited dateS .aturday night. I tell asleer in the shower (l"m there so infrequently),  BIRTHDAY. LOTS OF LOVE. FROM H.  
my  pink  shirt· wasn't  ironed,  and  my  ERNEST HOLLINGS FOR PRESIDENT  
helpltl I LOST 25 DOLLARS YESTER­DAY SOMEWHERE ON NORTH QUAD. IF FOUND CALL SUE AT 2962. THANKS!  FOR SALE: GREEN OVERCOAT. LARGE. IN VERY GOOD CONDITION MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER­CALL PATTY AT 8654  Somebody'a w81chlng youI  plexiglas was lost. I'm so sorry. I really want to go out w~h you soon. Please call. (889-4669). Love always, Ed  MOCK CONVENTION "84 The Fiscally Responsible Candidate. DELEGATES, Take a Good Long Look Before Choosing a dedicated politician over a DEDICATED SERVANTIIIIII ERNEST HOLLINGS tor  
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 2n-eo45. W/p1ck up & dehver. Summer Sales Positions. Average ear· nlngs $2700. Sell yellow page advertising tor Notre Dame and Western Mich1gan Universny Campus Telephone Dirac­tones. Spend 5 weeks In Notre Dame and  Lostll A brown veivetty sweat tact<et. It"s my lavorrte, and JOQging season is ap­proaching It found please call Sue at 2962. THANKS! LOST: Gennan textbook, in bookstore  BOOTLEG TAPES 2n-6398 35mm c-raat Mlnoltll XG-1 exc. cond., Rolle! 35T w/flash good cond. Make offers. 284-534 t. ELECTRIC GUITAR -MINT CONDITION  Hawaii club members--Tickets are 1n Call Mike or Chris FLORIDA SLAM IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE TRUE, JUST PUBLISHED ..... LUSHES  OK, now that you've all recuperated from your week of tun in the sun, get a little CULTURE! Come to the NO CHORALE CONCERT on Sat. March 31 at 8:15pm. Washington Hall. FREE ADMISSION.  PRESIDENT MAKING tough decisrons. not AVOIDING them. I CHEATED ON EVERY EMIL BAAAAHAHAHAHAHAHA REVE ON SAT. YOU BECOME A MAN HAVE  
5 weeks in Kalamazoo. Car necessary.  cubbyhole the Wednesday before break.  -CALL AFTER 5 233-9093  FUN IN THE LAKE DON'T FORGET  
No surr.mer school students. Lodg1ng and one meal per day provided while in Kalamazoo Qualified students should  It found. please return to Lost and Found or Brian x6741. Thanks.  MAXELL UDXLII"S $2.60 CALL STAN 1802 GREAT STEREO DEALS TOO.  THE SUNSHINE BOYS ARE COMING II  MUSIC! MUSIC! MUSIICI FUNI FUN! FUN! CHORALE! CHORALE!  YOUR KROGER BAGS. LOVE. J. M . C.L., L.B., FROM C. B.  
call Universijy Directones. t -800-334­4436. tor more informatiOn by March 31st. Ask tor Barbara N1euk1r1< EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME  FOUND ­BETWEEN D-2 AND GRACE ON 211. MARCH -MEN'S TIMEX WATCH -CALL 8871  TICKETS  r  CONGRATULATIONS JIMIUGOOD LUCK WITH IBM TOM POWERS  CHORALE! For a great time, come see the Chorale concert on Sat. March 31, at 8:15 pm, Washington Hall. Free Admrs­sion. Be There!  MACS ARE HERE DID YOU PURCHASE A MACINTOSH BEORE FEBRUARY 77 CI.LL US TODAYII WE HAVE RECEIVED A SHIP­MENT ROM APPLE. THE UNITS WILL  
CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009 EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009.  FOR RENT  HELPI NEED GRANDMOTHER  GRAD. COMING  TICKET ALL THE  Pulitzer Prize winning author of Thinking About the Next War .lecture entffled The Anna R-: Whllt 18 II About? Friday, 7:00, Center tor Soc/a/ Concerns.  SIXERS va. BULLS SIXERS va. BULLS  BE DELIVERED STARTING SATUR­DAY. MARCH 31. BETWEEN 9AM AND 4PM. CALL US·FIRSTII YOU WON'T GET ONE I YOU JUST SHOW UP ON  
TYPING AVAILABLE-287~ HOUSES-FURNISHED-1 MILE FROM WORDPROCESSINO -FAST AC­CAMPUS 4-6 BDRMS. 2 BATHS CALL CURATE WORK. 272-81127. 2n-3461 GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBIIIIIII ........ ················ ... ································ I WANTEDI LOST/FOUND I ,__Bo.t_.,.:;_.,:.._····----;;;;;.-·;;;--~--~-re-.....--'lng mature peraona to help with child care •nd houaehold reaponlllblllllea for one LOST: ONE SET OF CAR AND DORM yur poaltlon In exchllnge lor room, KEYS ON A KDOL.JAZZ KEY RINO. board 8nd wagee. Ple•M call Kille CASH REWARD. CALL CHRIS AT Goldlleld .,1117-ae2-7982 or-:283 4885. Marrett Road, LAxlngton, MA 02173. LOST:ND MEN'S RING. LOST ON 3/15. WANTED: o...,. female as a 4th lor YELLOW GOLD. BLUE STONE WITH Campus Visw Apts. Call Ann 1264 or Keri  WAY FROM IRELAND TO SEE CEREMONY CALl BOB 1104 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELL YGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK! PH. 272-1858 Do you hllve • gre81MnM of humor? Do you think you are funnier than the average guy on campus? Then share your talents. The Observer features  Go man got Get wild this Friday with The KINETICS at Nickles Music starts at 1Opm I VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR A CON­GRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN. MICHEAL BARNES OEM. 3RD DISTRICT IN­DIANA Good experiience and resume material. Jim-3584 ····························••····················• ATTENTION NORTHEASTERNERS: INTERESTED IN LIVING ON THE WHITE SAND BEACHES OF THE N.J. SHORE THIS SUMMER? CALL PAT 8782 WANT TO MOVE OFF CAMPUS? We're looking tor a 4th (female) tor Campus View. Call Ann 1264 orKeri 1279.  Bus trip to Chicago to see Philadelphia against the Bulls. tomorrow, March 31. Cost Is only $15, and Includes the ticket, round-trip bus ride, plus refreshments served both ways during the ride. C'mon and watch Moses and Dr. J do their stuff whilfl Orlando Woolridge shoots the high percentage shot. CBII x8207 If you're In­terested. NORA-ARE YOU THINKING? ATTENTION: WE WANT TO BUY A BOOKSTORE TEAM POSITION WILL PAY EITHER $25 OR 2 CASES OF BEER. CONTACT CHRIS AT 8555 OR JOHN AT 3851. WE MEAN BUSI­NESSIIII  SATURDAY. 239-7 477 OR 283-2726 MATT CHICKENOWSKI-DON'T BE A FOOLIII DROP THE COURSE, GET OUT WHILE THERE'S STILL TIMEt P.S. CAN MATT PLAY BALL WITH US TONIGHT, MO? TO MY IGNORED LIL" SISSES: Maybe it you weren't always in the gutter you wouldn't hear nott the streets! (Ha ha) Thanks anyway tor the Congrats! Love. Patti & Barney "STEREOTYPES", A BEAUX ARTS BALL, NEXT FRIDAY KISSY KAT-WHERE ARE YOU? MYRIAM  
NO ENGRAVED ON TOP. MY NAME IS  1279.  department is looking lor humor colum­ DIAL A  WENCH- need a  gi~ tor the  Happy  Belated Birthday! Even though  
ENGRAVED ON THE INSIDE. THERE IS  nists to wr~e regularly. For information  weekend. weekday. or any other special  you already celebrated once over break.  
A REWARD FOR ITS RETURN. CALL  NEED RIDE TO CINCY/MIAMI U. AREA  contact  Mary Healy  at The  Observer  occasion? call dial-a-wench 4369 and ask  RANDEL DEAD !I! RAN DELLA LIVES IIIII  you'll have to celebrate again. Happy 21st  
JEFF AT 811!>4. THANKS.  FOR 4/6-4/BCALL PAUL AT 1043  office, 3nl Floor of LaFortune.  lor jellybean  MIDNIGHT  Birthday! Love. your roomies  



The Observer Friday, March 30, 1984 -page 9 
Chernoff, Kush pleased 

Colts moving to Indianapolis 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Baltimore 
Coach Frank Kush and Michael 
Chernoff, general counsel of the 
Colts, confirmed reports yesterday 
that the National Football League 
team would move to Indianapolis 
and play in the new Hoosier Dome. 
Asked on arrival at Indianapolis International Airport whether the move was certain, Chernoff answered, "Yes! and we're very excited about it." 
Kush said he had enjoyed an ear­lier visit to Indianapolis while negotiations for the move · were being held. 
"It's great (coming to In­dianapolis). It's something we're doing with a lot ofanticipation. It's a new experience," he said. 
Anews conference was scheduled by Mayor William Hudnut for 3:30 p.m., EST. 
Kush and Chernoff arrived about 
1 p.m. Ol) a flight from Baltimore in 
the private jet ofteam owner Robert 
lrsay. Irsay was not on the aircraft 
and his whereabouts were not 
known. 
Meanwhile, Indianapolis officials scheduled a meeting tomorrow of the Capital Improvement Board, which must approve any agreement involving use of the 60,000-seat Hoosier Dome. 
Barbara Neilan, a spokeswoman for the board, said she had been aut­horized by board president P.E. MacAllister to announce that "an agreement has been negotiated with the Baltimore Football Club subject to approval of the board at its meeting in special session on Satur­day." 
Irsay was not available for com­ment yesterday morning, when the cities of Baltimore and Indianapolis were buzzing with word of the pos­sible move. 
Irsay has been talking about moving the Colts for about eight years with several cities mentioned as possible sites. In January, it was reported a deal was made to bring •he team to Phoenix but Irsay later denied the report. 
Phoenix officials announced Wednesday they had withdrawn their offer. 
Baltimore officials and busines­smen offered Irsay a S1 5 million loan at 8 percent interest, and a California developer offered to build a domed stadium in Baltimore for the Colts and baseball's Baltimore Orioles ifboth teams agreed to long­term leases. 
Phoenix officials said their offer also included a Sl5 million loan at discounted rate, rent-free use of the 70,021-seat Sun Devil Stadium and a guaranteed $3 million in ticket sales. 
The NFL has said it will do nothing to block a move by the Colts, noting it is powerless because ofa court or­der to stop an owner from moving a franchise. That ruling came when the Oakland Raiders moved to Los Angeles and has been upheld by the 
U.S. Court ofAppeals. 

Hang on toyourbats -the Baltimore Colts havefinally decided where they are going. The franchise willplay itsgames nextseason in the 60,000-seat Hoosier Dome in Indianapolis. The move was made only one day after Phoenix officials announced they were withdrawing their bidfor the team. Story at left. 

Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
Boston College. A third round NIT game was something talked about only in the basketball office at the ACC. 
It was with much pride, then, that 
the Notre Dame players left Madison 
Square Garden Wednesday night, 
even after they had been pounded 
by Michigan. They really had no­
thing to be ashamed o[ It had not 
been a case of the Irish beating 
themselves as in games past but more a case of a better and hotter Michigan team beating them. Still, there was much about this season to be proud of. 
And if the endless determination that the Notre Dame players showed against the Wolverines, even when 20 points down, is any indication of their cha!racter make-up, which it probably' is, you can bet there will be much mbre to be proud of in the coming !#easons. 
The one shame ofthis is that Sluby will not 8e around·to share in what this tearrl should accomplish in the next few years simply because if it were not for him this year, there is no way that Notre Dame would have been where it was Wednesday night. 
The only thing this team might lack next year is the solid senior leadership that Sluby provided during the second halfofthis year. It is uncertain as to how much a role Dan Duff will play come Oct. 15 when the team begins workouts again and who knows ifJoe Howard will want to, or be allowed to, play again after football season. Not to say Phelps doesn't want the sparkplug Howard around. The 13th-year coach has already indicated that "Small Wonder" is more than welcome back. 
Who will provide the leadership? Jim Dolan is a good guess. The soph­omore did much of the leading this year when Sluby wasn't and his con­sistent play is something that will keep him in the line-up game after game. Really, though, anyone could emerge as a leader. 
With one of Phelps' best recruit­ing classes coming in, the '84-'85 squad should be deep -real deep. 

ALL LATEST 
DIRECT 
H SALES."~ 
COMICS.. 
also hard to find back issues' AVAILABLE -­
TH~~~D~~;rv!A 234•1038~ •X ;1'!, ~:m~~o~ _,, Y<! 
STORE 

1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, 234-1038 
0,..: ......1'lrllln.l0.7.fri.l.... S.t. ... 
~(low open Sund_ay 12?_ _._ _, 

-GRSAt Uft'L 
Restaurant and Cocktail Loung Authentic Szechuan and Hunan Tas LUNCH SPECIAL Any Combination Plate for only 
ln_clu~es rice, soup, egg roll $2tati 
fned nee, entree fl 
and hot tea · 
130DixieWaySouth,SouthBend 272-7376 
next to Ranqall"s Inn 


ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS, FRANKFURT AND NICE. REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS: 
• Free deluxe motorcoach from Luxembourg to select cities in 
Germany, Belgium and Holland. • Bargain train fares to Switzerland and France. • Super Saver car rentals from $69/week in 
c: . ~vJO. Luxembourg..• Free wine with dinner, cognac after. , r. .~~".s~~;A,PEXFares. May !-June 9, 1984. 7-60 daystay, 14 day advance p,urchase required. , ·' 
' -j '· r• lce\lhdair to Luxemb!I"Jill,l.uxarr connectmg ·~rnce•tO other destmauons. Pllfthase tickets in U.S. All fares subjeCiJ;Gc:-hangeand governmem apw.ov~. See your ttav.elagent or call i800/555-1212lorthei9!H"!'~Ic~l~'num~ffi:¥P'!rarea .. ," IARP·• ·~·iirn·· . -···'•·. ­
de·· ~,~_:~·, / "\l··.K~ . _.,,. _,~. _...
.. .,.; .•~~-,~--r:.:·_::.· 
~-~
ICE ANDAIR ~ 
tMt:r.J:II!~mu@.·I:JljiZt!OiliJm:@l J8' 
,, V. 1r 

I AooREss PHONE 
I 

CITY STATE ZIP_____ 
L _____,_,W•~;.:.:==~ca=ployer'~~--~,.,.-,p_,:,>,r._., ...nv,~·_,n,o '-'""· .~~<-".'' '-''• ·'····•'· ,·•.;·. .o.'.'•'·,' ·~•"•,':, ~' 



ICELINDAIR IS STILL 
YOUR BEST VALUE 

TO EUROPE. 
LUXEMBOURG 
ROUNDTRIP FROM: 
8488 
NEW YORK 
8580 
DETROIT 

8508 
BALTIMORE/ WASHINGTON 
8588 
CHICAGO 

Next year's opponents will get bet­ter, too. Syracuse is scheduled to come to South Bend and the Irish are slated to head to Houston to face Akeem "The Dream" and mates. BYU and now Michigan are other possible good matchups, and the Irish will again try to end their Meadowlands jinx, this time facing Duke in East Rutherford, N.J. 
South Bend will probably look pretty good to the players today when they arrive back at the circle 
around 3 p.m. (they are going to try to take the same flight they passed 
· up yesterday), as they have been on the road for much of the last couple weeks. The one thing which shouldn't worry them is getting snowed into New York again next March. In fact, it's unlikely they will be stranded anywhere since the site of next year's Final Four is Lexi· ngton, Ky. -and I'm told that it never snows in Lexington come late March-early April. 
r Attention: Class of'85 IL Applications for 
~~.. Senior Informal Disorientation Week Block Party : Senior Formal Senior Advisory Council IL Beginning ofthe End Week plus a variety of commissioners ~(Social, Publicity, Societal, Liturgical, Athletic, Off-campuE 
~Cocktail Party, Happy Hour, Dorm-reps) 
I(  are at the Student Activities Office  
~  Applications are due on Friday, April6  
~  Get Involved with the Class of'85  



···----.. -------------------------­
Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 
277-1875 Men: RegUlarly $14.00, Spedal Price $10" Wo•en: Regnlarly $20, Special Price $15• 
•with coupon for No~ Dame student. only 
Co-Designers Only: Men $7 Wo•en $10 
•••••••--------........-...~-------..adizi••• 
The Observer Friday, March 30, 1984 -page 10 
Irish lacrosse 
Disappointment sign of progress 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 

When the Notre Dame lacrosse team left for the East Coast to play three: games ovc:r spring break, Coach Rich O'Leary would have considered a 1-2 record and a near­win over Duke a succc:ssful trip. Howc:ver, aftt:r set:ing his tt:am beat Georgetown and lose: to Duke: and William and Mary, O'Lt:ary actually was disappointt:d. 
"We thought that a 1-2 trip was the probablt: result," said O'Leary. "Howevc:r, we thought we had a chance ofbeating William and Mary. Also, it was disappointing that we lost to Duke after we were ahead be­cause of mistakes we never should have: made. We just haven't put to­gether a consistent performance for a whole game." 
O'Leary's disappointment is a good sign of his team's progress. In past years, just getting close to East­ern tc:ams like Duke would be cause for celebration. However, teams like Duke, which are a step or two below the rc:al lacrosse powers like Johns Hopkins and Syracuse, are no longer out ofreach. 
Notre Dame's second-half perfor­mance against the Blue Demons was the difference, though, as the Irish dropped tht:ir regular season opener at Durham, N.C. 
Riding the momentum they pickt:d up in a scrimmage with Rich­mond Lacrosse Club and an exhibi­tion game: against Randolph-Macon, the Irish took a 4-3 lead into halftime. However, four costly mistakes in the second half allowed 

Track 

continuedfrom page 12 
sc:ason, usually placing wt:ll in tht 
short sprints and hurdlc:s. 
"Losing Alvin hurts an awful lot," says Plane:. "Maybe if he: goes through spring ball and has a good fall, thc:y'll be more inclined to let him compete outdoors next season." 
Nevertheless, Pianc has quite a bit of talent returning. Once again, he will have the services ofan outstand­ing group of middle-distance and distance runners. Jim Tyler, Jim Moyar, Tim Cannon, john McNelis, JefiVan Wie, Ralph Caron, Andy Dil­lon, and Ed Juba should do well in the HOO meters, ISOO, 3000, SOOO and 10,000. 
In the t1cld events, the hopes of the Irish rest primarily with jumper jamt·s Patterson. Patterson, who set tht· school indoor long jump record with a leap of 2·l-H and who is also the team's best triple jumper an<l high jumper, should score a good deal of points. The rest of the tkld events -shot put, discus, javelin, and pole vault -will be put in the hands of inexperienced performers. 
The sprints will be handled by Phil Gilmore, Greg Bell, Van Pearcy (if he docs not participate: in spring foothall ). and Patterson, while Mike Brt·nnan will try to make up for Mil­ler's absence in the hurdles. 
The Notre Dame Invitational will prt·pare the Irish for very com· pc:titive mec:ts in places like Texas, Illinois, Tt·nnessee, and Iowa. As in the indoor season, most runners will be trying to qualify for the IC4A'~ which will bt: held at Villanova Uni­versity on Ma)l 19-20. 
The: Invitational will be run tomorrow and the other teams. competing are Alma College, Wes­tern Michigan, St. Aquinas College, Southwestern Michigan, and Val­paraiso. It is a non-scoring meet and many runners will be using the com­petition to work out the kinks from the past month. 
Duke to squeak by with an 8-S vic­tory. Three times Notre Dame made bad passes while clearing the ball out of its end of the field and, once, the Notre Dame goalkeeper, Rob Simpson, inadvertently scored into his own net when the ball got stuck in the netting of his stick. 
"It was just one of those things," said O'Leary about the mistake-t1lled second half. "It was Duke's sixth game of the year, too, which meant they had much more game ex­perience than we had. Still, we could've and should've beaten them that day." 
While Duke was not quite as good as O'Leary anticipated, William and Mary put up a much tougher fight than originally thought and won handily, 14-6. 
"William and Mary is a lot better than we expected," said O'Leary. "The school is dropping the sport af­ter this season, and so they're very motivated to do welL They certainly had more talent than we did, too. I just don't think we should have lost by as much as we did. We looked bad in the end." 
Fortunately, the team's poor play did not carry into the final game of the trip against Georgetown as the Irish jumped all over the Hoyas in the t1rst half, taking a 10-3 lead en route to an easy 11-5 win. 
Whether the trip was disappoint­ing or not, it did allow the Irish to work out some of the kinks before the conference schedule begins this 
weekend. It also allowed O'Leary to get a reading on his team. 
"I can make a much better evalua­tion of the team now," O'Leary ex­plained. "We took four freshmen and two players who weren't on the team last year, so player evaluation was a big thing. 
"Right now, we're just not ag­gressive enough. Whether it's defense or ground balls, we have to challenge more. About halfthe start­ers are aggressive, so we need to find the right combination. It could be a while before we settle on a certain lineup." 
O'Leary will get another chance to try out different lineups as his team travels to Kenyon College in Ohio for its Midwest Lacrosse As­sociation opener. Last year, the Irish defeated Kenyon, 1 5-5, on Cartier Field. 
"Kenyon should be about like they were last year," predicts O'Leary. "They won't have much depth, but their starters should be about as good as ours. We'll probab­ly try to run and be aggressive." 
Notre Dame will also be looking for more performances like those of junior attackman Bob Trocchi and junior goalie Simpson. Trocchi had eight goals and two assists in the three games to lead all scorers, while Simpson had 39 saves. Tom Grote (three goals, two assists), Joe Franklin (three goals, one assist), andjoe Hart (three goals, one assist) also made big contributions. 


* * * Candidate Debate * * * 
~ --~-r~ 

A campus representative of present Democratic hopefuls will give statements, 
debate issues. TUESDAY NIGHT, APRIL 3rd 7:00-8:00 in HAYES HEALY 




free... 
DOMINO'S PIZZA ... 
AND 2 FREE COKES 
WITH OUR 
3-0AY MOVIE PACKAGE *3-DftlA~9Yst~LA~~~v~E~~~~~~24 95 
TAPE RECORDER AND 3 MOVIES ... ONLY AJ\11 WE'LL GIVE YOU ACOUPDil FDR AFREE DOMINO'S PIZZA & 2COKES! 
VIDEO DISC PLAYER ~ 1 MOVIE/OVERNIGHT 
~\ ~ 
RCA VIDEO CASSETTE P\.AYI!R 

South Bend North 51400 U.S. 31 N. Clocktower Square 277-8872 
KAn•• 
cusmEPUYO 
RENTAL SLIGHTLY HIGHER 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS _,;,. AVAILABLE PLUS ~-­~ 100's OF MOVIES ....;q 

What does the Student union Record Store have for -me? 

Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price Any record or tape may be ordered --takes 4-5 days NO EXTRA C.~T Blank tapes: TDK SA 90's 2 pk--$6.00 1--$3.25 TDK SA 60's 2 pk--$4.50 1--$2.50 Maxell UDXL ll's 2 pk--$7.00 1--$3.75 Postage Stamps 



T0 day__....._____ ...l_l~
F_r_id_a..y,_M_a_r_ch_3_0,_1_9_8_4__P_.ag..e 
Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 


YliS ... WiiU. ... 
IF YOU MfAN•. 
I?ATI£1{ ... 

Mellish &Dave 



DD NOT BE A/lAID. IAM NIT 
AHAN 11 SIN. All THE 
WONIW I !lAVE IINDkiN Will 
ATTEST TrJ TJIAT. 

Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side 

,. 
"I don't know what happened to the Village People. I imagine they're all married and settled down now." 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  37 Cain's  69 Wonderland  11 Edible root  
1 Having  victim  miss  12 Sour  
wings 5 Chose 10 Pierce 14 Isinglass 15 Hitfrom the tee 16 Tailless rodent 17 Explorer/ author 20 Show contempt 21 Homily: abbr. 22 Wear away 23 Barbecue dish 25 Children's game 27 Insane  39 Sourceof metal 40 Atelier 41 Confederate general/ golf pro 44 Necktie 45 Hostelry 46 Evergreen 47 Try hard 48 Engrave 50 Kind of curve 51 A Gershwin 53 Harvest 55 Highway to the north 59 Ms. Arthur 61 Lariat 65 Astronaut/  70 Monster 71 City of Seven Hills 72 Passover feast 73 Scot. caps DOWN 1 Current units 2 Beastly king 3 Skin disease 4 Speed contestant 5 Unusual 6 Urgency 7 Mah-jongg piece 8 Turn inside out  13 Foundation 18 Ambler or Sevareid 19 Nullify 24 Ink drier 26 Deficiency 27 Chagall and Connelly 28 Cut short 29 Exclude 31 Prove false 33 Swallow 34 Cantoror Fisher 35 Legal at­tachments 36 Tender spots 38 Leah's son  
30 Cudgel  big band  9  -gratias  42 Behaving  
32 Rolls with  leader  10 Railroad  irration·  
holes  68 Border upon  sidetrack  ally  



Anteaters of the future. 
43 Charm 58 Poker 49 Mata-stake 52 White 60 Arthurian 
poplar lady 54 Aviator 62 Water plant 55 Slightly 63 School 
open period 56 Timber 64 Godofwar wolf 66 Vegas or 57 Close Palmas friend 67 Malde­
Thursday's Solution 

3/3D/B4 


Campus 
•2:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "Widowhood, Bereave­ment, and Reconstruction ofSupport Systems," Dr. Helena Z. Lopata, Haggar Hall Auditorium 

•3 
p.m. -Communio Conference, "Integrity, Eternity, and the Implicate Order," Prof. Kenneth 

L. 
Schmitz, CCE 

•3 
p.m. -Tennis; NO Men Triangular Match, Courtney Courts 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Emanciated Reason: Authority and Game Theory," ·Prof. John Finnis, Library Lounge 

•3:30 
p.m.-Stationsofthe Cross, Columba Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Arms Race: What is it About?" Tom Powers, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, 

•
7, 9:1 5 and 11 :30 p.m. -Film, "Tootsie," 


Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student ·union, $1.50 
•7:30 
p.m. -Communio Conference, Panel Discussion, "Hidden Variables and the Implicate Order," CCE 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, 


"Parsifal," Annenberg Auditorium Saturday, March 31 
•9:30 
a.m. -Communio Conference, "Cosmic and Human Evolution in Theological Perspective," Rev. John H. Wright, CCE 

•11 
a.m.-Communio Conference, "The Impl­icate World: Mankind's Oneness With God as a Mediated Immediacy." Rev. William). Hill, CCE 

•12 
p.m. -Outdoor Track, Notre Dame Invita­tional, Behind ACC 

•12 
p.m.-Golf, ND Men vsTri-State, GolfCourse 

•
2 p.m. -Art SlideI Lecture, Deborah Butter­field, Annenberg Auditorium 

•3 
p.m. -Communio Conference, "Man and the Meaningofthe Whole," Prof. Frederick). Cros­son, CCE 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Tootsie," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1.50 

•7:30 
p.m. -Communio Conference, Panel Discussion on Education: The Implicate Order, and the Order of Learning, CCE 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Chorale, 


Washington Hall Sunday, April I 
•11 
a.m. -Spanish Mass, Farley Hall Ch~pel, Sponsored by Social Concerns 

•12 
p.m. -Golf, NO Men vs. Xavier, Golf Course 

•1 
p.m. -Baseball, NO vs Univ of Dayton, Jake Kline Field 

•3 
p.m. -Concert, Betsy Fairlie, Graduate Horn Recital, Annenberg Auditorium 

•7 
and 8 p.m. -Film, "Something Beautiful for God," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Social Concerns, Free 

•8 
p.m. -Leture, "God in Contemporary Ex­perience and Theology," Prof. Catherine LaCugna, Sacred Heart Church Crypt 

•1 
0 p.m. -Off Campus Mass, Campus View Swimming Pool Bldg. 




© 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 3/30/84 
-------------------------------------------------~ 
Movie Nights
DUSTIN BOITM.&N 
at Senior Bar 
Friday Night Saturday Night





Toolsie 
Animal House Caddyshack 

TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT 
7:00,9:15,11:30 $1.50 

Engineering Auditorium 
Both movies start at 10:30 Free Admission 
..' .



L------------------------------------..--~··-..-------·J.. I • 
.:•:•~ •:~: •:,:•~,. :•:·~·:, ~,., -·~· .·~-.•:•:•~c.•..•~·~·~ ·~•:•~•:•:•~(~..l.•.•..~~~:,.f.,E..:..;.p")..~f"'LI'A!"':~·-;.\,-. ·... '.·\~: • 
S~orts 
Irish add defensive knowledge and experience with Harris, Lantz 
By LARRY BURKE the Irish staff in mid-January as He likes what he sees at Notre Dame ,\ports Writer defensive end and outside lineback­so far. er coach. He replaces Greg Blanche, "This is the finest, most ex­
Experienced and knowledgeable who announced two days following perienced staffthat I've ever worked coaches can often make the dif­the end of Notre Dame's '83 season with, no disrespect to any of the ferenn: between a good team and a that he planned to join the USFL staffs that I've been on in the past," great team. Jacksonville Bulls as defensive line said Harris. "The number of years 
The Notre Dame football squad coach. · that these men have worked at the should be an example of this in the "We're excited about having Bis­major college level is outstanding. 19H4 season, thanks to the offseason hop join us," said Irish coach Gerry There is a lot of expertise here. 
hirings of Bishop Harris and Rick Faust. "With his experience on Coaches Christoff, Kelly, and Lantz Lantz, two ddensive specialists who defense, he'll fit in perfectly with our are three of the best that I've ever will team with defensive coor­scheme." been associated with. I'm proud to 
dinator/sccomlary coach Andy Harris. who coached for LSU be able to work with these men. It's 
Christoff and inside linebacker against Notre Dame in 1981 (the an honor and a privelege. coal·h George Kelly to provide solid Irish won 27-9), has 20 years of "As far as the players are con­instruction for the Irish defense this coaching experience on both the cerned, I'm impressed with their at­season. high school and college levels. In ad­titudes and work habits. I'm 
dition to his four years at LSU, he enjoying working with these young Harris, outside linebacker coach coached for three seasons at North men. They have the proper mental tht.· last four seasons at LSll, joined Carolina State, and for four at Duke. outlook, and that usually means 
good things will come. "We (the coaches) are concerned 
with the success of the individual, but our primary concern is group­oriented goals. Each player has to strive to be the best that he can be, 
Bethel outlasts Irish 

in extra-inning battle 
to make the team the best that it can By ERIC SCHEUERMANN by scoring three times, and going in­be. We're only as strong as the Sports Writer to the top of the sixth the score was weakest link." 
7-4 in favor of Bethel. This was Lantz, who was named defensive It was a strange day yesterday for where Notre Dame seemed to take 
line coach earlier this month, is no the Notre Dame baseball team, dis­over. 
stranger to college football either, appointing to say the least. A six-run Irish rally in the sixth bringing 13 seasons ofexperience as The Irish suffered a 12-1 I extra in­catapulted them into a I0-7 lead. a collegiate defensive coordinator to 
ning defeat at the hands of Bethel Senior Mike Metzler sparked the ral­his new post with the Fighting Irish. College in a game labeled "a roller ly by launching a three-run homer. He was defensive coordinator and coaster ride" by head coach Larry All the Notre Dame pitching staff linebacker coach at Georgia Tech Gallo. had to do was hold Bethel in the final for the past two seasons, and Notre Dame's track team is preparing to host the Notre Dame 
Although the Irish were two innings and the victory was Invitational tomorrow, and Coach joe Piane is confident despite scheduled to play a doubleheader, theirs. the loss ofseveral runners tospringfootba/1 includingAlvinMiller
See COACHES, page 8

the second contest was canceled But Bethel had other ideas. They and Milt jackson. Snow hampered last year's Invitational. due to the cold and wind. It was scored four crucial runs off third probably a good thing for the Irish Irish pitcher Mark Clementz to take pitching staff. After showing good an 11-l0 lead. So just as the Irish had 
Takes to outdoors 
form on the team's spring trip, three breathed a sigh of relief, they found Irish hurlers were racked yesterday themselves in trouble again. for sixteen hits and twelve runs by They climbed back into the game 


Track team begins second season
the Bethel sluggers. with a run in their final at-bat which "Our pitching just was not real tied the game at eleven. Bethel fuiled By MIKE SULLIVAN finish with one of its best indoor season, and we certainly weren't in­good," said Gallo. "I'm not trying to to score, so the regulation seven­
Sports Editor seasons ever. He hopes the success active," explains Piane. "The break take anything away from Bethel, but 
inning contest entered extra in­can carry over into the outdoor helps in the long run. Initially, the we just didn't get the job done." nings. 
Part two of the 1984 Notre Dame season despite the loss of some key times won't be faster than the indoor Sophomore pitcher Steve Powell "From there on," said Gallo, "it track season -the outdoor season performers to spring football. times because the kids haven't raced was a case of not being able to get
started the game for Notre Dame, -will open this weekend when "The indoor season was very suc­for a long time. But the times will im­and quickly gave up back-to-hack 
one run. We didn't get timely hit­Coach Joe Piane's Irish play host to cessful and the kids know they ran prove quickly." ting, and (Bethel) kept coming at us. the annual Notre Dame Invitational. well," says Piane. "That should help
home runs in the bottom of the first The one negative effect of the 
It was just one ofthose things." us outdoors."
inning which put the Irish behind 2-There probably won't be any break was the toll spring football 
Bethel took the win with a run in
0. snow on the ground when Notre Most ofthe team has had close to a practice took on the squad. Because 
the bottom of the ninth. A single Dame and five other schools take to month layoff since the IC4A Indoor iootball generally wins out over Notre Dame came right back with with the bases loaded and two out 
the Cartier Monogram Track, some­Championships. However, the track when someone wants to com­two runs oftheir own, but could not knocked in the winner. Clementz 
thing unusual for the early-season period of rest should prove benefi­pete in both sports, Piane lost the take the lead. Bethel continued to took the loss for the Irish and is now 
meet, but the Irish will once again cial as the team looks toward the services ofMiltJackson, Alvin Miller, take advantage of weak Irish pitch-0-2. 
try to use the meet as a tune-up for IC4A Outdoor Championships near and probably Allen Pinkett. The loss ing, and scored five more runs in the The team travels to Indiana for a 
what they hope will be a profitable the end ofMay. ofMiller is particularly damaging be­next four innings off Powell and doubleheader tomorrow, and opens "Spring teams are essential for
spring. cause he was the star of the indoor relieverJason Schomer. the home season on Sunday at I p.m. Piane is quite optimistic about his teams like baseball and lacrosse who 
See TRACK, page 10

The Irish were able to keep close against Dayton. 
squad's chances after watching it are inactive during our indoor 



Nothing to be ashamed of 
Jeff Blumb 
Assistant Sports Editor 

to be reckoned with -mainly because it had dis­covered the offensive weapon it had long been search­ing for. The team was slowly earning the respect Coach Digger Phelps had predicted it would have by season's end. 
The bottom fell out. though, when Tim Kempton got hurt and the Irish went into a slide. NCAA chances were gone and, although everyone knew an NIT bid was a certainty, not much of anyone but Phelps himself gave his team a chance to do a whole lot in the "Not Impor­tant Tournament." 
The Irish coach, usually not one to mince too many words, was stressing the pre-tournament speculations and how his team had proved the skeptics wrong. And well he should. As Phelps himselfsaid, no one expected Notre:: Dame to get past Old Dominion and certainly not 
See IRISH, page 9 







