Beirut -page 4 

VOL XVIII, NO. 82 
the independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1984 

ND investments. opposed by Senate 
ByJANE KRAVCIK knows what we are talking about in StaffReporter terms of nuclear weapons. I think the reason for Notre Dame divesting Apolicy callingfor the divestment is to say we disagree with this policy. of University funds from companies I think this is in line with the Bis­which manufacture nuclear hops' stance (in their Pastoral Letter 
weapons and their components was on Nuclear Wcapons)." passed 10-3 at the Student Senate The policy was prepared by mem­meeting last night. bers ofStudents for Responsible Uni­
The policy will now be presented versity Investments, with the help of to the Notre Dame Board ofTrustees Robert Wilmouth, a member of the meeting this week in Florida. Trustee Investment Committee. 
The three guidelines which a SFRUI is a student organization company must meet for the Univer­formed last fall. The chairman is sity to withdraw its investments, senior Mike Skelly. The policy was 
according to this proposal, include: proposed to the Senate only so it being one of the companies receiv­would have their support when ing the ten largest contracts from presented to the trustees, Skelly the U.S. Department of Defense, said. receiving over 50 percent of its Also discussed at the meeting revenue from defense contracts, and 
were other issues being considered being involved in producing a major for presentation before the trustees. nuclear weapon. Possible topics include: representa­
The only company meeting these tion on the board of students by guidelines which the University appointing a recent graduate to the Demonstrators in Amsterdam bold signsprotesting state visit and laid a wreath at the national monu­does invest in is Lockheed Interna­board, and the alcohol policy. the French nuclear tests in the Pacific. French Presi­mentfor war dead in Dam Square. tional. According to Michael Bren­dent Francois Mitterand arrived here for a two-day nan, author of the policy, "the three The Senators were given a copy of guidelines are very limited. The Uni­the proposed changes in the Student versity only supports one company Union and Student Government which meets these -Lockheed structure. The proposal, which sug­
Ground Zero kicks off workshops 
and this is an investment of gests such things as changing the S300,000 or S400,000." dates of the terms for the student By KARLA KEIM Ground Zero ·organizers hope to midnight since 1953. It was set at
government and student union offi­Bob Gleason, Assistant Student News Staff their message of nuclear awareness 12 minutes to midnight when the
cials, will be voted on next week 
:Body Treasurer, commented,"I per­hits home as Three Minutes to Mid­SALT I agreement was signed. the •onally don't see anything wrong Brian Callaghan, student body THREE MINUTES TO MID· night, a series of educational clock then moved to nine minutes :tvith investing in defense_ Nuclear president, announced that Paddy NIGHT workshops, will be held from when the Russians invaded Afghanis­weapons should be a detterent. Ifwe Noonan and Hal Roach will be Posters displaying this warning Thursday to Sunday. tan, and to four minutes when Presi­are pulling out, we are pulling out of appearing on Feb_ 13 in Washington can be seen all over campus through Ground Zero is geared toward dent Reagan took office. Last month defense_" Hall and on Feb. 14 in O'Laughlin the efforts of Notre Dame/Saint educating students about the arms it was moved to three minutes be­
Brennan replied: "Our govern­Auditorium. Student tickets are Mary's Ground Zero, an organiza­race without giving any answers or cause of the termination of the ment has set the priorities of our available . at the Student Union tion hoping to inform students forcing a particular viewpoint. nuclear arms control talks. society. I question whether America record store for 55. about the nuclear debate. Chairman of the Notre Dame/St. Saturday's workshops consist of a Mary's Ground Zero Michael Bren­presentation for 30 to 45 minutes nan said the issue is "too important followed by a question and answer

Second space snuttle satellite ends 
to be left to the experts." period. They start at 10 a.m. in Ground Zero holds the motto, "In O'Shaughnessy Hall. a democracy, preventing nuclear The workshops scheduled for 
war is everybody's business." Saturday cover a wide range of 
Why Three Minutes To Midnight topics. Such University departments Associated Press hours after its ejection from shuttle The Palapa was in an orbit that as Navy the School, 
in disastrous orbit, like twin sister 
as a slogan? The Nuclear Doomsday ROTC, Law Challenger in an elliptical Earth or­was 750 miles at its high point and Clock is set at three minutes to mid­Physics Department, Philosophy . CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla -The bit so low it "cannot perform its mis­172 miles at the low point, roughly night. This clock appears on the Department, and more are 
space shuttle astronauts launched a sion," said Richard Brandes of the same as the Westar VI launched as
cover of the "Bulletin of Atomic represented. Topics such the satellite for Indonesia yesterday, but Hughes Aircraft Co_, which built the earlier for Western Union. Both 
Scientists" magazine. Soviet Union, Euromissiles, arms it ended in a useless orbit, just like its satellite and its twin, Westar VI. satellites had been intended for an 
The clock has been reset 11 times 
twin Westar VI launched three days "Two similar failures after 18 suc­orbit 22,300 miles above Earth. see ZERO, page 5
since I945 and is now set the closest earlier. cessful space firings obviously sug­Brandes said both satellites' rock­
The North American Aerospace gest a common technical problem et motors apparently shut down 1 5 Defense Command located the may have existed with these two seconds early. They were intended Palapa B2 satellite about seven (rocket) motors," Brandes said. to bum for 80 seconds. 
Second City slated to appear 
Charles Ordahl, vice president of McDonnell Douglas Corp., which makes the S7 million rocket stages, 

at Saint Mary's-this month 
speculated that "there was some problem with the nozzle and the By DAVID ROBBINS 
of public media. For several years,motor." 

News Staff they maintained a syndicated televi­
He suggested the motors may 
sion show based in Chicago, and have ruprured because both 

Second City, the nationally known then spread nationwide via their "terminated and eventually snuffed 
satirical comedy troupe from which newest endeavor.SCTV, which was (which) would indicate pressure in 
"Saturday Night Live" recruits their broadcast on NBC for two years.The the motor dropped abruptly." 
members, will be performing at group has also been involved in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin auditorium several television specials, one other 
To cause that, he said, "would re­
on Feb. 18 at 8 p.m. television series and four film 
quire an increase in an opening on 
The troupe's performance is projects. They keep a satellite com­the motor." 
sponsored by the Saint Mary's Stu­pany based in Toronto, Canada. The government of Indonesia 
dent Programming Board. The group is composed of called the failure "a major disap­Second City staged their first com­eighteen members -three groupspointment." 
edy revue in 1959 in a bankrupt of six members each who tour the 
Shuttle program manager Glynn 
Chinese restaurant in Chicago's Old country training and working with Lunney expressed the same senti­Town. Since their formation. Second aspiring young comedians. ments for NASA and said "it is too 
City boasts many performers who 
Second City, which is based in

early to tell and unfair to sp~culate 
have gone on to become very suc­Chicago, received its name from the
where the problem was, and 
cessful, including Dan Akroyd, John late AJ. Liebling's nickname for
wherever we find it to be, we hope it 
and Jim Belushi, Valerie Harper, Chicago in "the New Yorker."
will be soon." 
Robert Kleine, Bill Murray, Mike Tickets are $5 for adults and $3
Flight Director Harold Draughon 
Nichols, Gilda Radner, Joan Rivers, for students, and can be purchased
said the astronauts did not ask about 
David Steinberg andJohn Candy. 
at the Haggar Center information Over the years, Second City has desk or by calling the ticket office
see SHUTTLE, page 5 
. branched into several other aspects (284-4626). 


.-------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------­
The Observer 
In Brief 

A toilet paper prankcost students at Arizona State l 'niversity the privilege of using the architecture building after hours. Officials say toilet paper strewn all over the second floor recently presented "an extreme fire hazard" because of large amounts of wood and paper there. The school wants to keep the building open. but won't until students can guarantee its safety.­
The Obsen1er 

The Sears-Roebuck Foundation will present grants totaling S9,600 to reprt:scntatives ofAn cilia College, Bethel College, Goshen College, Saint Miry's College and the University of Notre Dame at a noon luncheon today on the Saint Mary's campus. The Scars-Roebuck Foundation annually awards unrestricted funds to private two-and four-year institutions across the country. This year, 2H privately-supported colleges and universities in Indiana will receive S3H,OOO from Scars. Nationally, 934 colleges and univer­sities will share S I, S 75,000. -The Obseroer 
Twenty-five Zenith Z-100 microcomputers are currently being used by students and staff alike in Maddeva Hall at Saint Mary's. Seventeen of the computers are reserved for student use while eight are for administrative purposes. Director of Com­puter ServicesJohn Cook said some of these units are being used in the Computer Science minor program. -The Obseroer 
The FBI is completing the first stage or its inves­tigation into the jail cell death of Calvin Perry III in Fort Wayne, Indiana, and will send a report of its findings to the U.S. Justice Department later this week or next, an FBI spokesman said yester­day. FBI spokesman Gordon W. Gwinn said the bulk of the agency's investigative work has been completed and agents are putting to­gether a report to forward to the Justice Department. The justice Department will review all investigations into the 18-year-old Fort Wayne man's death and then determine ifthe FBI should pursue the matter further, Gwinn said. Gwinn would not discuss the details of the investigation, which was called to help determine whether au­thorities violated Perry's civil rights and ifhe had suffered a wrongful death. Perry was found hanged in his Allen County jail cell last month, a day after he was charged in the mid-September murders of Fort Wayne newspaperman Dan Osborne; his wife, Jane; and their son, Ben. The coroner ruled Perry's death a suicide, but some blacks and religious groups in Fort Wayne questioned that ruling, as well as how authorities had handlt:d Perry's case. -AP 
Of Interest 

Prayer and study meetings ror those students 
participating in thl· Wednesday fasts will begin tomorrow at 12: I 0 
p.m. in the :'\kditation Room of the Center for Social Concerns. Sponsornl by the World llunger Coalition, the weekly meetings are scheduled to last thirty minutes. -The Obserl,er · -''"' 
The Computing Center is otl"ering introductory minicoursl'S in computing free to the public. The hour-long classes hegin at .~:.~0 p.m. in room I I<; of the <im1puting Center and Math­mat it's Build in~. Today's class is an introduction to the IBM PC, and future suhjen~ include introductions to the Apple lie. Dis­playwriter. SPSSx. SAS and SCRIPT. Further information may he ob­t:Jined at the center. -The Ohst•n•t•r 
Natural family planning will he the subject of a slide show and discussion today :11 ~:jO p.m. in the auditorium of llayes-llcaly. The Sl'S~ion is pn·sl·ntl·d hy the Natural Family Plan­ning Program ofSt.Josl·ph County in coopnation with Campus Min­istry. The group also will be offering a snies of meetings for engaged and married couples who wish to !t-arn the method. That session hegins Wednesday, and couplt:s may registt'r hy calling 237-740 I. ­
The Obsen•er 
Weather 

Mostly sunny and coldtoday. High in upper tet'ns and low 20~. Increasing cloudiness and cold tonight. Low I 0 to IS. Mostly cloudy and warmer tomorrow with a high in upper 20s and low _'lOs. -Tbe OiJsen•er 
Today'~ i~Mit' wa~ proc..lun·d hy:
The Obsa:ver 
Produdlon Consultanl . ...... :0.((.'H.' Fo!oolc:r /J(•sign J:'tlitor....... ............ <:hri!'l Bowlc:r n(•slgn Assistant . ................. Kim Tydl!-.t"n l.aJ•oul Sitiff ................... Tina \\"idc.·rqui!'lt 

:r., ;., ,~lr .q .•}•' ''l!~·qml.;.pt:.\~trc.:o The Observer ( ~ ~~~ ~'!<) 1l;r':il0\)j i~, J; 
:•I<~' II, ,. !: " 1 ',itto ll~fljFP'\·~'l~'iH·) 
:"'(,ll.l'\ Prunt·~t•
puhl!~hc:d Mond~l) through _Fri~l,•~r ~~HJ 
;t} t,JI ......... d ' 1 'fl'_;, •,. H)hnM~·rifll._.~J
on home: loothall ~arurd.l\''-·: l·xct·pt 

••11 T)•pl•&>fter.:~.b.Jl,..l•.l.t.fllill;llt~hdu<llt-d.:·l Observer b puhll•h•·d hJ· the 'ttJ<knts "' 
du1*11l~ t·x'am Jntl \'adllton pc:rltl\h l'Kc.·· 

•: .., ,. . 1.. · , •:. nc1 L·)lidtdk ~'41WI ttw l ni~"·rl\ill qt .Notre.: l>ouH~ <lllC.I ~~in~ 
r • ·)~~t'S ~:.'(!I~W:.'·:·· ..:···j·:·:: ·:..·..;~,l·!ll~arrin.gton M.aq ><.ullq.tr ~uh~,.:riptio!l\ .n.Jy ~e 
.•.• ' ( OPJ' rtlt!or ....,.................... 1\·s~ (;uarino Jlll.r~·h~l~(·d f(Jr J.!c; pc:r \Tar ( $ J'~ JWr 
• ·.\Jf6/-t.< (."ujJJ' lo'ditr,;.: ....... :..Jam· lkaln 
\.'fell'poit(l I lll'Oil/ . ....~ \likt· \k< :aughL·~
,t·mc:~lt'rl hy \\·r111r1'g Tht· Ohservt·r, 

NO /Jt~r Fdilur... .~tdind.a ~oorc: Th(.' (lb~t·rvt·r i~ .1 mt·n1hc.·r <Jil'he As~ P l) 1\u\ (.). ;\lotrc·Damt·. lru.lian;t fh';'ih 
.\';\.fe lhl)'/;'tfilur .....,.,\tan :\nn Poun 
Atl lk.<tgll. .. .IIiII 1 >'Brim
sodated Pn ""~· All rc.·produt:lion righh 
PbfJicJgrapber .. Pt·tc.· I..H.:ht·, l)·pisls. .... ~arah llamillon 
;I(C.' fC.'~tTVt'd 
.. ' .. ' 
Tuesday, February 7, 1984 -page 2 

Beware a fierce media battle 
Man the battle stations! Hide the children! Look out below! The lines have been drawn. The trenches have been solidified. 
The war has begun, and you are the target. 
Your vote, that is. 
From now until Eit'ction Day, you will be subjected to a media barrage. The attack will come from all flanks -radio, television, newspapers, magazines. 
With the first caucusand primary less than two weeks away, the presidential candidates have mobilized their troops into high gear. Eight Democrats and one Republican have their sights set on the Oval Office ­some more realistically than others, ofcourse. 
No matter how long they argue about inflation and unemployment, taxes and deficits, arms buildup and nuclear freeze, they all have one thing in common. They need your vote. 
Without your vote and the votes ofother Americans, the hopes and dreams of 
David Dziedzic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Tuesday 

dictates cannot be ignored. If Dan Rather's lt:ad story tonight is about the increasing success ofthe Gary Hart campaign, you can bet Hart's campaign manager will be overjoyed. Such national attention can do wonders for a campaign in limbo. 
Tum on a network news program any day from now until November 6 and you will undoubtedly be treated to the latest campaign news. You'll find out who said what to whom and why. And in just a coupit' of weeks, the networks will shift their coverage into overdrive ­
emphasizing the horserace 

January, February and 
elements of the campaign. March will become the dis­
You'll know exactly how appointments of June, July 
many delegates each can­and August. 
didate has amassed, and Unlike the eight 
why. Democrats, the only viable 
But candidates do not Republican Ronald 
limit their television ex­Reagan -doesn't have to 
posure to such free worry about winning his coverage. Millions ofdollars party's nomination. This 
will be spent on commer­doesn't mean, ofcourse, that cials that will proclaim the candidate Reagan is sitting candidates' true message. 
around the Oval Office We'll see Mondale on a fish­waiting for the Democrats to 
ing trip, John Glenn listen-choose their man. He's out 
ing to students to convince us that we an· "American the Beautiful," better off now than we were 
and Alan Cranston promis­four years ago, and that our 
ing to end the arms race. economic recovery will 
Americans must avoid the 

continue. And that we 
should vote for him in November. 
The eight Democratic candidates, on the other hand, must be more near-sighted. Each one is attempting to convince all Democrats that he should carry the party's flag in November. But, once again, your vote is the key. 
Although several campaign pews sources are available to the puhlic, studies show m{>st people rely on television as their primary source. Many people form an opinion of a candidate based soldy on that can­didate's television image. 
Besides having an appealing platform and a solid con­stituency, a presidential candidate must be able to use television with accuracy and shrewdness. Reagan's suc­cessful campaign in 1980 is an excellent example of television's potential. As a former actor. Reagan knows how to rt'spond to the camera. If he continues to make such excellent usc of the medium, he probably won't have much to worry about in November. 
Television's importance to the presidential can-

temptation of relying on television for all campaign information. While televi­sion provides information quickly and clearly, it is often unable to explore the complex issues which are ofvital importance in a presidential campaign. 
By taking time to explorl· the candidates and the issues, Americans can make sure their votes are won by the best candidate, and not simply by the one with the most firepower. 
The Obseroer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide-; column article on the Editorials page. These,, columns represent the opinion of a majority. of The ObsenJer editorial board. All other columns, on the Editorials page or other­wise, arc the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board.orThe Obseroer staff. 



We're starting work NOWon the 

1984-85 NO Activities Calendar And we need your help!! 
...**WANTED*** 
--Photographers --Ad Salesmen --Layout and Copy Persons 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING Feb 8, 6:30 pm

BUY 
S.U. Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune 

ADS 


TO 
The Notre Dame Finance Club presents ... 
FILL 
"I Jill.· 
u·]:lfJS. 
I .JrJ'.)~~ 
-~··~:::spA:CE ·ll.rn 
. ··;/.) ,-' . 
-rl 1 ~, " • 
l,:"l•· ,. 




The Observer Tuesday, February 7, 1984 -page 3 
Reagan goes home for birthday 
Associated Press 
EUREKA, Ill. -President Reagan celebrated his 73rd birthday with thousands in his hometown yester­day, and then told students at his alma mater that America has emerged from "an era of paralyzing self-doubt" that enabled some na­tions to threaten the United States without fear ofconsequence. 
"We've changed this," the Presi­dent declared. "We're trying to see to it that American citizens -and it doesn't matter whether they are Navy pilots in the Gulf of Sidra or medical studients in Grenada -can no longer be attacked or their lives endangered with impunity." 
The President addressed students at Eureka College after being feted at a community birthday celebration, complete with parade, in his 
hometown of Dixon, Ill., about I00 miles from Eureka. Reagan is the oldest president in history. 
As he was driven in his new armored limousine to his former homestead at 816 S. Hennipin Ave., Reagan passed several groups hold­ing signs. One expressed birthday wishes, while another said, "Get the 
U.S. Out ofCentral America." 
The President and his wife, Nancy, paused on the porch of the white frame home and waved to spectators several hundred yards away. A few people broke into a spontaneous round of "Happy Birthday," and Reagan shouted, "Thank you." 
He was given the key to the house in a gold case. In the snow-covered front yard was a flagpole with an American flag and a sign that read: 
Brug use in high school decreases 
•r ·11 As!lociated P.tess 
>1 
WASHINGTON -High school seniors continued to diminish their use of illicit drugs, and the number smoking marijuana daily has dropped to its lowest level since the government began keeping figures in 1975, a study said yesterday. 
The annual survey found that 63 percent ofthe class of 1983 who par­ticipated in the survey had tried an illicit drug. Some two out offive said they had tried an illicit drug other than marijuana, according to the sur­vey prepared for the National In­stitute on Drug Abuse by the University ofMichigan's Institute for Social Research. 
Some 47 percent reported using an illicit drug in the preceding year, down 6 percent from the peak of 53 percent in 1979. 
The proportion of seniors who smoked marijuana during the year 
before the 1983 survey was 42 per­cent, down from a high of 51 per­cent in 1979. Daily use of marijuana dropped from 10.7 percent of those surveyed in 1978 to 5.5 percent in 1983. 
The 5.5 percent is the lowest level recorded for daily marijuana use since 1975, when the study first was conducted. Daily use is defined as smoking on 20 or more occasions in the month before the survey. 
They survey questioned 16,000 to 17,000 seniors at about 130 high schools. 
"These data confirm the unparal­leled increase in the extent of marijuana use between the 1960s and 1970s has ended and that the 1980s represent a period ofleveling and decline in drug use," said Dr. William Pollin, director of the in­stitute. 
Dr. Lloyd johnston, a psychologist who was principal investigator for 
Attention all off-campus juniors &abroad 
students from last year. ... As there 1s o mix-up with the Registrar's Office and their current off-campus address list, you ore cordially being invited to attend the Hall Party of your choice on Feb. 18 at 10:00 pm of the Junior Parents' Weekend. Please notify either the Hall Coordinator of your choice or myself by Feb. 10. Thank you, Pat Steirwalt 
283-2737 Hall Parties Chairperson 
, 
consultants to Multinational 
firms s'l!k qualified llldivlduals With language and area expertise on foreign markets. Our clients prefer foreign nationalS with advanced degrees from American Univel­sities. VISa restrictions might not apply to some of the available projects. Part-time and ful.time assignments available. Fee Paid. 
Send resume or request for application form to: 
Swenson, Crawfurd I Paine Dept B-33 P.O. Box A3629 
Chicago. Illinois 60690 


Music ComP.etition 
March 2, 1984 Cash Prizes Applications Due Feb.17 Pick one up at the Nazz Studio or 437 BP 
"Boyhood Home of President Ronald Wilson Reagan-His Formative Years." 
Thousands of people, braving the bitter cold, lined the parade route. Many carried signs ranging from "Welcome Home. Dutch," "Happy Birthday, Mr. President" and Reagan -Old But Good" to "Reagan Out the Door in '84" and "Reaganomics Stinks-Just Ask the jobless." 
Reagan, who was born in Tam­pico, Ill., on Feb. 6, 191 1, moved with his family to Dixon when he was 8 years old and considered it home until he was 21. His family lived in five rented homes, and the one on S. Hennepin was restored by the Ronald Reagan Home Restora­tion Foundation. 
In both Dixon and Eureka, Reagan emphasized his optimism about America's future. 

the project, said there is no evidence that alcohol is replacing marijuana as the drug favored by American youth. Daily alcohol use stands at 5.5 percent, a slight decline over the last several years, he said in a statement. 
Tickets filed for SB, class elections 
At Saint Mary's 
By PAM RICHARDSON 
StaffReporter 
Class unity, masses, and student involvement are common elements in the platforms of all three tickets running for class of'87 offices at Saint Mary's. 
The ticket of Mary Flynn, president; Erin Mullarky, vice president; B.A. Otto, secretary; and Dee Dee Shary, treasurer, keys in on class unity in its platform. Otto feels the freshman class hardly knows one other. If elected, the officers say they will work together as a unified group in order to do a better job. The platform includes trips to Chicago, dances, and more class masses. 
The second ticket consists of Michelle Coleman, president; Jenny Blanz, vice president; Sara Hon­ningford, treasurer; and Patty Curran, secretary. Promoting a similar plan of class unity; Coleman stressed the need for more class masses. She said can­didates would also like to see next year's sophomore class involved in more community projects. Coleman proposed the idea of rewarding those who have a cer­tain number of service hours to get the class more in­volved. 
The final ticket includes jeanne Heller, president; Angie Hundman, vice president; Betsy Burke, secretary; and Jill Gillig, treasurer. The Heller ticket, as its op­ponents, promotes unity and involvement as the thrust of its campaign. Heller feels it is important to get to know more of the class, and she feels this can be ac­complished by getting everyone involved in activities. Their platform also includes more class masses, class videos and a Mr. Sophomore NO, to be voted on by the sophomore class. 
Elections will be held Thursday in the HaggarStudent -Center. 
At Notre Dame 
By MIKE KRISKO 
StaffReporter 
Don't look now, but its time again for campaign pos­
ters to start sprouting up all over campus. Last night was 
the deadline for filing candidacy petitions for the offices 
ofStudent Body President, Vice President, and Student 
Senate. 
Student Government Ombudsman Andrew Tucker 
was surprised that some candidates will be running un­
opposed for the Senate. "This will be another poor elec­
tion in terms of the number of can· 'dates running 
unopposed," he said. 
All candidates must be approved for academic 
eligibility by the Registrar. 
There are just two candidates hoping to represent 
District One (St. Edward's, Lewis, Holy Cross, Carroll, 
Sorin, Walsh, and Alumni Halls). Current Freshman Ad­
visory Council President Doug Wurth will take on 
junior Paul Healy for the office. 
In District Two, Doug O'Brien will oppose Stanford 
Hall Councilman Pat Browne for the representation of 
Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Breen-Phillips, 
and Farley Halls. 
Mark Rolincik, a current member on the Student 
Senate Committee for Teacher Evaluations, and Dan 
McNamara are the candidates from District Three 
(Dillon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Badin and 
Howard Halls). . 
Tom Abood will run unopposed in District Four, the 
North Quad. 
Javier Oliva is the unchallenged contender from Dis­
trict Five, which serves off-campus students. 
Pending the Registrar's approval, there will be two 
tickets for SBP/SBVP. One ticket is composed of Stu­
dent Senator Robert Bertino and Breen-Phillips Hall 
President Cathy David. The other ticket consists ofHoly 
Cross Hall President Chris Tayback and Farley Hall 
President Kelly Fitzgerald. 

Indiana Bell requests 13.5 percent rate hike 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS -Claiming it faces a "dangerou!>" loss ofrevenues from the government-ordered breakup of American Telephone & Telegraph, Indiana Bell asked the In­diana Public Service Commission yesterday for a S39 million emer­gency interim rate increase. 
Bell's request would raise basic 
monthly rates 13.5 percent on an in­
terim basis. 
The phone company's action yes­terday follows the PSC's decision Friday to grant the phone company a delayed rate increase of 599.5 mil­lion out of the Sl27.7 million it had requested. It remains to be determined in hearings later this month and in April exactly how much and when customers will have to pay. 
In a prepared statement Friday, Bell said, "We are extremely disap­pointed the commission authorized less than we supported and denied us the opportunity of collecting higher rates immediately." 
Yesterday, Tom Walker, Indiana Bell's executive vice president and chieffinancial officer, said in anoth­er prepared statement, "Indiana Bell has lost millions ofdollars since the court-ordered breakup of the Bell System. These losses will mount at a dangerous pace until we close the gap between the cost of providing service and the amount people pay 
for service." 
The telephone company had asked for S61.8 million to come from residential and business cus­tomers and the remaining S65.9 mil­lion from access charges from other long-distance companies. Commis­sioner Michael Banta said Friday he expected at least $43 million of the 
599.5 million increase would come from access chargesapproved in late December involving long-distance hookups with the Bell System, but the commission wasn't sure what the amount would be. 
Indiana Bell has a contract with AT&T, its former parent firm, to supplement long-distance revenues through April 3. Bell said in its prepared statement yesterday this contract provides about 560 million in revenues on an annual basis. Bell claimed its emergency rate increase request would cover the difference between that amount and the S99.5 million increase the PSC said was justified. 
Tu.:sd~l), ~ Lbruary 7, l ':ih-.i. -page ·ct 
. "'-· 

------~~---------------~---------------------~~----·----------­

Reagan blames S~ria for turmoil 
The recent eruption oft•iolence in l.ebanoll has las­ting a(ten1fects lmtb at bome and abroad. Above, one of the bundn•ds ofshops damaged in recent fighting b(•/ll'een the Lebanese army anti Shiite .Yoslems, hare-
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan yesterday denounced Syria as being responsible for the new out­break of "indiscriminate killing and suffering" in Lebanon while renew­ing his vow that America's commit­ment to Lebanese sovereignty and independence "remains firm and unwavering." 
Other officials, who insisted on anonymity, said the new crisis probably will end with much greater influence for Syria over the Lebanese government, even if Presi­dent Amin Gemayel, a Washington 
APPhotn 
(V stands in Beirut. Below, U.S. Marines in Dover, Del., carry• the body of one of the soldiers killed in recent combat. 
Moslem soldiers seize West Beirut 
Assodated Prec-s.-; 
BEl RllT, Lchanon Anti­govnnment Moskm militiamen sl'iznlmost of west Bdrut in furious Mrcct battle:-. with the Lehanl'Sl' army Yl'Stcrday and dcmandnl thl· resignation of Chri~tian President Amin (il·mayd 
Lebanese Chrbtian radio said the 
li.S. hattlnhip Nl·w _kr~t:y shelled anti-governmt:nt positions in nearby hills in rt:tali:nion f(>r a rockl·t attack on the II.S. Marine hase at Beirut air­port. The report could not he im­mediately confirmed. 
<lm· Marine and l'ight Italian soldil·rs in till' lkirut multinational Pl'al'l'keeping force were reported wounded in thl· t1ghting, whi<:h ex­plmkd across thl' city and plunged thl· Amerk·an-hackl·d (iemayd ad­ministration iuto it~ worst crisis since it took office 16 months ago. 
Police said at least '.>0 peopk wne 
killed and 500 wounded in yester· 
day's tighting, pu~hing the overall 
toll to about 160 dead sintT the 
l:llest round of l.t·hanon's intt:rmit­
tent civil war broke out last 
Thursday. 
llooded Shiite :\1o~km irregulars and their Drust· allies drove Lehanesl· army units from most of their checkpoints on Moslem west Beirut's main commercial thoroughtares and residential neigh· horhoods. 
The tkn.Tnes~ of the fighting was reminiscent of tlw I '.>75-76 civil war. 
For the tirst time Shiite Moslem 
kader Nahih lkrri called on 
Gemaycl, a Maronite Christian, to 
resign. ,. 
Gemayel's Sunni Moslem prime ministl'f, Shat1k Wazzan, pad resigned with hi!-> eight . (:abinc:,t members Sunday to clear the way for a national coalition< :ahinet to try to end tht· conflict, which pits the army and the Christian right-wing Phalangist militia on one side against 
Syrian-supportcd Druse and Shiite held urgent talks with Gemaycl at fighters on the other. the presidential palace in suburban In the llnited States, President Baabda, Lehanese state radio said. Reagan issued a statement yesterday· But Walid .Jumblatt, leader of the deploring "tht· actions of those who Druse Progressive Socialist Party, would destroy the legitimate said in a statement issued yesterday govl·rnment of Lebanon," and in Damascus, Syria, any political blaming the Syrian govt'rnment for settlement with Gemayel's govern­till' attacks. ment was "impossible" and the 
White House spokesman Larry president's resignation was neces­Speakes said the Reagan administr;­sary to solve the country's crisis. tion hoped (iemayd "will quickly he Both .Jumhlatt and Berri accused ahle to form a responsible. hroatlly the 42-year-old president of helping represt·ntative government." Spe­the Phalange Party of his father, cial Middk East l"nvoy Donald Pierre Gemaycl, to dominate the Rumsfcld and other U.S. officials army and the government. 
favorite, remains in charge. They said it probably also dooms the Israeli-Lebanese troop withdrawal agreement crafted by Washington last year and opposed by Syria. 
Reagan, in a statement in Dixon, Ill., said "men and women of good will throughout the world ... join me in deploring the continued shelling of innocent civilians and the actions of those who would destroy the legitimate government ofLebanon." 
Reagan left no doubt he blamed Syria, which only last month won plaudits from Washington officials for releasing captured American Navy flier Lt. Robert 0. GoodmanJr. 
"I call on the government ofSyria, which occupies Lebanese territory from which much of the shelling of civilian centers ongmates and which facilitates and supplies instru­ments for terroristic attacks on the people of Lebanon, to cease this ac­tivity," Reagan said. 
State Department officials said they had taken the position that the United States should not get in­volved militarily to defend the Gemayel government unless the Marines peacekeepers in Beirut 
were directly attackt"d. The Pentagon announced later 
U.S. warships oft· Lebanon struck back with gunfire and airpower after Marines at the Beirut airport had come under tire at Beirut airpor t t. 
The Pentagon said one Marine was wounded at the airport. 
Gen. john Vessey, chairman ofrhc Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate Budget Committee, meanwhile, that "we have contingency plans to take care of our forces," if the situation continues to deteriorate. 
Asked by Sen. Doald W. Reigle Jr., 
D-Mich., if the United States had 
plans to move the Marines to safety "if the situation continues to deteriorate," Vessey replied: "we have contingency plans to take care ofour forces, yes, senator." 
Without specifically mentioning the I,600 Marines in the multina­
tional peacekeeping force, Reagan ,: 
said "the commitment of the U.S. to ('. the unity, independence. and sovereignty ofLebanon remains firm .., and unwavering." 

Potential jurors tested for notorious rape case 
Associated Press 
FALL RIVER, Mass. -Potential jurors answered a two-page list of questions yesterday on what they knew about the case of six men aocused of raping a woman on a har­room pool table, as jury selection began f<>r two simultaneous trials. 
An initial pool of 75 people was summoned in what was expected to be a difficult selection process be­cause of the case's notoriety. A total of32 jurors must be selected for two trials. 
"You are not being tested," Supe­rior Courtjudge William Young told them. "As citizens you have the obligation and the right to sit on the juries of this commonwealth." 
The six defendants arc accused of raping a 2 I -year-old woman at Big Dan's tavern in nearby New Bedford on March 6, 1983. Police say the woman was assaulted for over two hours while other patrons in the har cheered on her attackers. 
The case became national news and a rallying point for women's rights. A candlelight protest march staged a few days after the arrt"sts at­tract~d some 2,500 people. 
ATIENTION Notre Dame HolyCross 
300 
Students Are Needed To Work Jr. Parents Weekend February 17-18-19, 1984 


Because of widespread news coverage in the past I I months, court officials have anticipated dif­tkulty in finding impartial jurors. 
When Young asked the potential jurors yesterday if they had a prior opinion about the case, I 4 people stood up. They were all excused. 
By midday, Young had t'xcused 30 potential jurors. Some said they were acquainted with the defen­dants or their attorneys. Others said they knew people among the list of 84 potential witnesses. 
The judge split the case into two trials after learning some defendants '1 
11
may implicate co-dekndants from 
the witness stand. To prevent 
publicity from one trial tainting a :r 
later case, he has decided to try the cases at the same time in the same courthouse. 
Although cameras are allowed in most Ma~sachusetts courts, Judge Young barred photographers yester­day, saying he did not want the jury selection disrupted. 
Bristol County officials have called 500 potential jurors for the case, and Young had hoped to inter­view I00 people a day. 
St. Mary's 

i6. 
6~~ 
'oi1~ 
)tiUl 

I' 

The.Observer Tuesday, February 7, 1984 --page 5 
something extraspecial 

Agapito "Butz" Aquino, younger brother ofassas-, Philippines. Aquino's brother spoke rt'J the crowd at sinated former Senator Benigno Aquino, pledges to Manila Airport after be and more than 1,000 protes­continue with his brother's fight for freedom in the tors completed a 75-mile protest march. 
Reagan/Salvadoran link debated 
WASHINGTON -An ex-U.S. am­bassador to El Salvador charged yes­terday that the Reagan administration had "created" rightist Salvadoran leader Roberto D'Aubuisson as a serious presiden­
tial  candidate  by  concealing  
evidence  tying  him  to  "death  
squads."  

"How can people cast a free vote if vital information is denied them?" asked former Ambassador Robert E. White about El Salvador's March 25 elections in which D'Aubuisson is a leading contender. 
In sworn testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Subcommit­tee on Latin America, White also dis­closed the names ofsix Miami-based Salvadoran exiles who he alleged have financed and directed rightist "death squads" in El Salvador. 
White's allegations came under sharp attack from committee Republicans. 
Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y., asked the former ambassador if he 
might not be "the victim of misin­
formation" and whether the United 
States has the right to pick a nation's 
leader just because it objects to his 
morals. 
"Should we ask (Soviet Premier Yuri) Andropov to resign because he was head of the KGB?" remarked Solomon. 
"Our dollars don't go to support Andropov," answered White, refer­ring to U.S. military aid to El Sal­vador's rightist government in its war with leftist guerrillas. 
Last week, White, now a professor at Simmons College in Boston, accused the administration of concealing evidence that D'Aubuisson arranged a lottery to pick the military officer who would have the "honor" of assassinating El Salvador's Roman Catholic Arch­bishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero, who 

WE HIRE VETERANS PART TIME 
Your local Army Reserve units need veterans of all services to help train and supervise incoming soldiers in many skills. Some of the specialities open to prior service personnel are: 
Instructors--Infantry, Chemical, Maintenance, 
and Supply Personnel Senior Sergeant Administrative Specialist 
For serving a weekend a month plus two weeks a year, an E-5 with 4 years experience can earn over $1922 a year. For more information on these and other job openings, call your Anny Reserve Recruiter at: 
SGTJones 234-418't..au,.au•• CaUCoUect 
ARMY RESERVE' .. BE ALL YOU CAN BE
·-----------"··''• ,...._.,,..,~·11'----------· 
was gunned down March 24, 1980, while saying Mass. 
"The Reagan White House took on a great responsibility when it chose to conceal the identity of the Archbishop Romero's murderer and not to use the evidence ... to write 'finish' to the political fortunes of ... Roberto D'Aubuisson," White reiterated yesterday; 
Shuttle 
continuedfrom page 1 
the satellite and were not told of its failure. 
Western Union said its satellite cost $30 million and that other ex­penses pushed its loss to $75 mil­lion. Presumably, the nearly identical Palapa cost about the same. 
The third major failure on the trouble-plagued flight cast a pall over the most .daring part ofthe mis­
sion,  today's  scheduled  first  
spacewalk  by  astronauts  not  
wearing a lifeline.  

On Sunday, a $450,000 tracking balloon burst as.it was being inflated. 
Westar VI, launched Friday, was found two days later in a useless or­bit, its systems intact. It apparently had separated from its booster, a rocket stage called a Payload Assist Module -pam for short. There was no doubt yesterday that the PAM burned, at least for the first one-third ofits expected time. The Palapa was ejected from Chal­
riiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII...IIHI.......IIHHIIHIIHIIIIIII...IIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIHII 
Best Selling Author 
FRAN LEBOWITZ 
Tuesday, February 7 ·s p.m. .·...".,u~CarroU Hall SMC 
i 
! 

~~ L............. .....................-....................... ........-..i 
Record-breaking cold plagues Southeast area 
Associated Press 
Record-breaking cold air surged into the South yesterday, spinning off snowstorms that clogged roads from Alabama to New England and leaving behind at least 31 dead, many of them motorists stranded by blowing snow. 
Temperatures dropped below freezing as far south as Louisiana and Alabama. The icy air was expected to reach Florida by yesterday night, threatening citrus groves already decimated by a hard freeze in December. 
The arctic blast that invaded late Saturday killed 22 people in Min­nesota and North Dakota alone, paralyzing highways with windblown snow that cut visibility to zero. The Plains were mostly clear yesterday, but as the huge surge of cold air moved slowly south and east, t it gave New England and the central Atlantic states a dose of snow. 
"I would think you'd have to call this winter," said National Weather Service forecaster Ray Burgess in Nashville, Tenn., where the mercury slipped to 9 degrees yesterday morning and the frozen body ofa 56­year-old transient was found outside Nashville Electric Service headquar­ters. 
In neighboring North Carolina, up 
to 6 inches ofsnow fell overnight in 
the mountains. In Kentucky, up to 6 
inches of snow was forecast in the 
southeast and forecasters warned of 
Ienger's cargo bay by a spinning mechanism. After the ship moved some distance away for safety, the PAM fired. 
"We saw the beginning of the burn ... It looked good," mission specialist Robert Stewart reported after the rocket fired. "It was rather bright at first." 
As far as the astronauts were con­cerned, their part of the satellite deployment was done and they coulq," I=QJlcentrate ;t,9n today's showstopper: the jet-propelled ex­cursion into space by Bruce McCandless and Stewart. They will be the first humans to venture into the void with no rope to keep them from going too far. · 
McCandless, 46, and Stewart, 41, will have their backs to the black of the universe looking down on their spaceship framed against the spin­ning Earth. What they see will be relayed to the ground by television cameras attached to their helmets. 
Their colleagues on the shuttle, Vance Brand, Robert Gibson and Ronald McNair will be watching, ready to fly the ship to their rescue should things go awry. The spacewalkers will always be facing the shuttle and be in its view. 
"treacherous" road conditions. 
To the south, temperature records fell in four Louisiana cities and in Alabama, which got 4 inches of snow in the north, closing high­ways. New Orleans dropped to 31 degrees, breaking the mark of 32 set in 1978, and Mobile, Ala., dropped to 22, snapping the 25-degree record of 1978. 
The weather service forecast a "hard freeze" last night for northern and central Florl'ia. Temperatures were predicted to Jip to 24 in the central citrus region -including Polk County, which produces more oranges than all of California -and 25 in southern regions, including the Indian River grapefruit area. 
A freeze Christmas weekend caused an estimated SSOO million damage to Florida's citrus crop. One citrus spokesman estimated about halfthe total crop is still on the trees, most ofit Valencia oranges. 
To the north in Georgia, tem­peratures tumbled into the teens and most schools in the Atlanta area were closed yesterday by an inch of snow in the metropolitan area. 
Other weather-related fatalities since Saturday included four carbon monoxide deaths, two traffic deaths and one exposure death in North Dakota, one traffic death in Tennes­see, one exposure death in Iowa, one traffic death in Illinois, one traf­fic death in Ohio, two traffic deaths in Missouri and two traffic deaths in New York state. 
Only twice before have astronauts ventured out ofthe shuttle, but each time they were tethered to the cargo bay by a nylon cord. The spacewalkers of an earlier age -in the days of Gemini, Apollo and Skylab -were supplied by airhoses while they were outside. On the moon, of course, there was enough gravity -one sixth that of Earth ­so that the astronauts didn't need tethers. 
_ Today's five-hour adventure began at 7: IS a.m. this morning when McCandless opened the door to Challenger's cargo bay. He and Stewart, clad in pressure suits, climbed out and stepped into chair­like backpacks called MMU's ­manned Maneuvering Units. Hand controllers on the rigid arms of the MMUs command com­binations of24 nitrogen jets to move and stop the astronauts. McCandless, wearing equipment that weighs 700 pounds on Earth, will leave the cargo bay first, moving above and behind the shuttle. He will float ISO feet away and return. Then he will put 300 feet distance between them. Stewart will repeat the exercise later. While McCandless is out, Stewart attaches a docking device to a storage box and McCandless flies back to attach himself to it. 
Zero 
continuedfrom page 1 
control, and the arms race are being offered. Captain William McLean of the Law School, who served on the SALT I team, will speak. George Brinkley of the History Department will present a talk entitled, "What About the Russians?" or "Is Yuri Still Alive?" A representative from Freeze Voter '84 will also speak. This is just a sampling of the many workshops being offered. 
The entire event culminates Sun­day night at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns with a debate be­tween GovenorJohn Gilligan of the Law School and Bernard Norling of the History Department, on "Do More Missiles Buy More Security?" 
Schedules for the weekend are printed on all posters across campus. 
Tuesday, February 7, 1984 -page 6

Vieweoint 
Victim's rights less important than justice 
In nearby Maryland, Kenneth Lodowski was convicted for the death of two men in the course ofa robbery. One ofthe victims was an off-duty policeman who left a pregnant wife. lbe other victim, allegedly shot by a l.odowski accomplice now on trial, was an 
Richard Cohen 
The Cohen column·, 
emigrant from Vietnam who left a grieving 
mother. 
The judge sentenced Lodowski to die. The 
crime, it turned out, was not just murder, but 
something worse -the murder of certain 
people. 
lbe judge heard from both the widow and tht: mother before condemning Lodowski to dt:ath. Their testimony, although not then n:­quired, was in the spirit ofa new law designed to ensure "victim's rights." 
And while there is no hard proof that their testimony convinced the judge that execu­tion was warranted -after all a policeman 
had been killed -it's hardto see how it could 
not. 

Anyone who has read the testimony of the 
widow and the mother could not help but be 
moved by what they said. The widow was 
pregnant at the time her husband was shot and 
she gave birth two days after she testified Her 
pregnancy was extended, apparently by psy­
chological strain, and she carried past her 
ninth month. 

As for the mother, her testimony was equal­ly compelling. Her son had been the very model of the industrious emigrant. He was a store clerk, working his way up, putting in long hours, saving his money -doing in America what he could not do in Vietnam. He was, in short, a good man. And so concluded the judge. 
"You participated in a tragedy that snuffed out the lives oftwo beautiful people," he told Lodowski. 
Ifever there was justice, this seemed like it. But if ever there was a question about the whole victim's rights movement, this seems the case to raise it. Ifyou believe in the death penalty, Lodowski certainly seems an ap­propriate candidate. But if you believe also that no life is worth less -or more -then another, this case is a troubling one. 
What would have happened if Lodowski had shot a corrupt cop? What would have hap­pened if the cop he shot had lived alone, had no friends or relatives and had been disliked? What would have happened ifone of the per­sons shot had been a drug pusher out on parole or maybe had recently escaped from a prison? How about a drifter? 
In none ofthose cases would someone have been able to testify to their good character. ln some ofthose cases, in fact, there would have been no one at all to testify. Does that mean that the life of someone who lives alone is worth less than the life ofa man who leaves a family? 
Does this mean, in fact, that people will be punished not just for the crime they commit, but also for which victims they happen to choose? Kill a cop who is about to be a father and you get the gas chamber; kill a drifter and you get a life sentence -and the chance of parole. 
The trouble is that in each and every case, someone has been killed And in each and every case, we are dealing with a killer. What matters is the crime, not the relative worth of the victims or those who survive them. 
The plight of the survivors is real, and so is their anguish, but it does not change the nature of the crime. If the off-duty policeman had abandoned his wife to live with 11 cheer­leaders, that would not change the fact that a man had been killed. 
Nevertheless, the so-called victim's rights movement is gaining ground The phrase has a satisfying sound to it, but like "right to life" and other phrases concocted out of intellec­tual cotton candy, it is essentially meaning­less. 
Worse, the phrase "victim's rights" suggests vengeance. That might be satisfying, but it is hardly justice. Justice requires that all people be treated equally before the law. 
From all the evidence, Kenneth Lodowski, is the sort of man-beast who ought to spend the rest of his life behind bars. But his crime was murder -not the murder ofa good per­son, ora bad person, or a married person, buta person. 
"All men are created equal," says tbe Decla­ration of Independence. Ah yes, says the vic­tim's rights movement, parroting•· George Orwell's "Animal Farm," but some are more equal than others. Orwell was spoofing com­munist society. The victim's rights movement is in deadly earnest. 
(c) 1984, TbeWasbingtotrPostCompany 

The rise of modern rhetoric 
Yesterday, while idly searching the various South Bend telt:vision stations for a program which would hold my interest, I stumbled upon a political debate at Yale University which was co-sponsored by The Firing Line 
Robert Lloyd Snyder Then midweek 
and Yale's Student llnion. 
The debate, which was restricted to the relative merits of Reagan's Presidential ac­complishments, featured such dignitaries ao; c;corgc Will, William Buckley and George McGovern in debating teams with political 
sdcnn· majors at Yale. · ~-~-. ­I thought that the show would be hard­hilling and revealing; however, the show wao; revealing only in thl· respect that it illustrated to what extent rhetoric. bluster and silly in­transigence dominatn discussions of public policy in our society. 
'Inc luminaries were ultra-<.·onccrned with appearing to be confident. cooi and col­lectl·d, paying gent·rally only lip service to a 
public which had tuned in to the show to sup­poscdly be informed and enlightened. 
The students a~sumed a role like Phil 
Donahue's in the now-infamous New 
I lampshire debate among the Democratic 
presidental candidates. They were wholly 
amateurish in their obvious attempts to fluster 
the respective political heavyweights, and on­
ly succeeded in demonstrating the pomposity 
and childishness with which we often take 
policy stances in this nation. 

Perhaps a great deal ofthe bluster and shal­
lowness of the policy debate in this country 
can be directly attributed to the growth of 
"media politics" in the last two decades. After 
all, the importance of "political stance" has 
bt•cn largely pre-empted by "public percep­
_ti~.j,p the Unitt:A4 s~ 

The disease which now hinders the for­
mulation of intelligent, well-founded and 
articulate policy in this nation can likewise be 
found in the debate of policy at Notre Dame. 
During the past year there has been a propaga­
tion of misleading information, mispercep­
tion, and hysteria in the formation of 
University policy especially in stu­dent/administration affairs -as never before experienced at Notre Dame. All of a sudden, we were supposedly in­
formed that there would be no more alcohol 
on campus, that food sales were going to be 
outlawed (by an alleged conspiracy between 
N I) food services and the administration), 
that The Obseroer was going to be made into 
an instrument ofadministration propaganda. 
After listen: ng to the words ofkey figures in 
each ofthese controversies and reading many 
of the articles which have appeared in this 
newspaper, there has not yet been any 
evidence to substantiate any of these above­
mentioned allegations, yet students are han­
ging banners from dorm windows urging the 
preservation of campus alcohol and dorm 
food sales. 
Silly rhetoric has not been limited to dealings with the administration, however. Student government ha~ been a hot topic in that several areas, such as the An Tostal "missing funds" affair and the preferential ticket distribution policies ofthe Student Uni­on, worsening the already-ambivalent opinion of student government by students on this campus. 
A good friend of mine recently met a man while out on the town whom he did not think he knew. The man seemed very interested in the student's situation at Notre Dame, his future plans, his hometown -all of the general items brought up when someone you meet discovers that you are a Notre Dame stu­dent. 
He left after a few minutes of brief discus­
sion without telling my friend his identity. 
That friend was amazed·ifl later learn who that 
man indeed was. '.; 
When we engage our brains before opening, our mouths, there is generally more truth, more accuracy. and more intelligence than 
can be found in the rhetoric of the mostll polished polit~cian. w_hile apath~ and disint~r-· est are undestreable m our soCiety, rhetonc;: disinformation and half-truths are even worse. 
When we pass on scandalous rumour, propagate rhetoric, denigrate tht; character of persons whom we hardly fwow, or uphold half-baked and misleading conclusions on policy issues as the absolute truth, we insult our own intelligence as well as the intel­ligence ofothers. 
The next time a huddy starts talking about our Dean ofStudents, for example, ask them if they have actually ever had first-hand ex­perience with the man. You may sec a trend emerging. 

p • 0 • BoxQ 
Cecil Rucker 

Dear Editor: 
Please l'Xtt·nd our utmost apologies to Mr. Phelps for suggesting that he allow Mr. Rucker 10 play basketbalL We, tht· highly uneducated stuucnt body of Notre Dame, would never 
ant to tdl Mr. Phdps how to run his basket­
all organization. 
Furthermore, since Mr. Phelps and his bas· kctball tl·am arc so ultimately perfect, we would nl·ver want to point out that Mr. Ruck­l'r is just as qualified a~ any other member of thl· team to play basketbal. 
n addition, we students at this Catholic uni­versity would never want to suggest to Mr. Phelps that the proper Christian action would be to forgive Mr. Rucker for whatever mys­terious indiscretion Mr. Phelps perceived him committing. Our sincerest apologies to Mr. Phelps for showing such an interest in him and 
his team. 

Name Withheld Upon Request 
Editor's note: Areyou tired ofreading View­point columns u>ritten by white Anglo­Saxon Catholic male seniors? Ifyou could help us diversify give Keith a call at 239­
7471. 



EditorialBoard. Depat1mentManagers. 
Edttor-in-Chtef............ , ...,.;,,.o..;.......David Dziedzic 
'· 

P. 0. BoxQ, Notre Dame, IN 46556 ( 219) 239-fJJOJ ManagingEditor..............:.,:.....Margaret Fosmoe Busim-ss Manager,.................Christopher Owen . ~.L S 'I
The Obsert•er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­ExecutiveEditor...............;:.:..............Paul McGinn Controller.................................:ll'i!'-(·.....Aiex zt va~ versity of Notre Daml· du Lac and ~aint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect NewsEditor......................... : ....... Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager ...........:..;.,,.......Jeanie Poole thl' policieS of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­NewsEdltor.........................~·..........Mark Worscheh Cirr:ulalion Manager...........+it-~.......Ma~Miotto curately and as objectively as possible. l 'nsigncd l'ditorials represent the opinon ofa SaintMary's Editor.., ........... : ...Anne ·Monastyrski SystemsManager~,,..............~:-~Kevin Wfllams majority ofthe F.ditoriaiBoard. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present SportsEditfJF .....ti.A.RJo.....,;;.;........-:••1 ..$ .£&;.--~ . 
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher Founded November 3, 1966. and the frn· t•xpression ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. Features Editor............................... Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower 
The Observer Tuesday, February 7, 1984-page 7 

I 

Sports Briefs 
Ken Barlow will be on Speaking of Sports tonight from 10-1 1 on WSND-AM 64. To ask any questions or just add a comment, call239-6400 or 239-7425.-The Observer 
A bowling league is being sponsored by the NVA office. There is a requirement that each roster have at least six people and the deadline for turning rosters is today. Four members ofeach team will bowl each week for five weeks. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Equestrian clubwill have a very 
brief but mamlatory organizational meeting today at 6:30 p.m. in tht: Lafortune Uttle Theater. Please bring along the dues of 53 for tht• club happy. hour. All are welcome. Call Margaret at 8152 for more informational. The Obsen•er 
The ND Karate club will resume practice tonight at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym of the ACC. This will be the fast oppor­tunity for new members to join the spring semester. -The Observer 
Squash players, the sixth annual Purdue open sqash singles championship will be held this weekend. Anyone interested in participating should contact Sean at 277-1405 immediately be­cause today is the deadline for entry. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby club will hold a mandatory meeting tonight for all players in the LaFortune Little Theater at 9 p.m. New players are invited to attend, and no experience is necessary. Ifthere are any questions, call GeoffBranigan at 3065. The guest speaker will be Fmsty Bill. -The Observer 
The ND Weightlifting club is sponsoring a free 
course in bodybuildiing and weightlifting for men and women. The first class is tomorow at 7 p.m. in the third floor gymnastics room at the Rockne Memorial. For details, call Pat Toole at 277-571. -The Obsen•er 
Tuesday, February 7, 1984-page 8 

Your Health is a three-night seminar sponsored by Cen­tury Club and NVA. The seminar continues today and tomorrow and is being held in the LaFortune Center Classroom (first floor). Lectures begin at 7 p.m. Today's's lecture is "America's Changing Diet: Improving on Salt, Cholesterol, and Fast Food." The speaker is Deborah Duskin-Morris from Saint Joseph's Sports Med health awareness program. Register for the seminar by calling NVA at 239-. 6100. The cost for the remaining lectures is $2, or $1 a night. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost its 
game last night to St. Francis 77-5 5. Chris Pantelleria led the Belles in scoring with 15 points. St. Mary's record is now 4-12. Its next game is Saturday against Marian at 1 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. ­
The Observer 
A fitness screening will be otfered on February 16 by NVA and the Century Club. The event will be conducted by the St. Joseph Sportsmed/Health Awareness Program. The cost is S15, which includes tests of cardiovascular fitness, blood pressure response to exe~:cise, muscular strength, symmetry, flexibility, and body composition. You must apply for the program in person at the NVA office by February 8. Call 239-6690 or 239-6100 for more details. -The Observer 
A downhill ski trip to Royal Valley is 
being offered by the NVA. The trip, which includes transportation, lift tickets, ski rental, and lessons, covers the next two Tuesday nights. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6690. -The Observer 
Lifesaving/Water Safety Instructor Courses will be offered at the Rockne Pool at the following times: Lifesaving ­9:10-9:45, 10:15-10:50, 11:20-11:50, and 1:20-1:55 on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11:05-12:05, 1:20-2:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and 12-3 on Saturday beginning Jan. 21. Water Safety Instructor classes will be held from 9 a.m. to noon. There will be a charge of 56 for materials for Lifesaving classes and a 520 charge for Water Safety materials. For more information, call Brother Louis Hurcik, C.S.C., at 239-6321. -The Observer 
Tarheels dominate the poll 
By DAVE KAPLAN 
Associated Press Writer 
The Kentucky Wildcats, no longer the intimidating beast they were ear­lier this season. tumbled to sixth place in the weekly Associated Press college basketball poll announced yesterday Kentucky's lowest ranking this season. 
The plunge from third place came after Kentucky, 16-3, lost to Alabama 69-62 Saturday for its third loss with­in three weeks. 
No. 1 North Carolina continued to dominate. The Tar Heels, for the third time in four weeks, collected all 62 first-place votes from the panel ofsportswriters and broadcas­ters, and 1,240 points. 
Sports board Top Twenty AP Top Twenty The Top Twenty cottage basketbatt teams 1n The 
Associated Press pot!, with first-place votes in paren­
theses, thiS season·s records and total pomts Po1nts 
based on 20-19-t 8-t 7 etc. Notre Dane opponent s 
aeitalicized. 
1. N. Carolina (62) 20·0 1240 2. DePaul t7-0 t174 3. Georgetown 19-2 
19-2 
4. 
Nevada-Las Vegas 20-1 

5. 
Houston 


999 
19-3 969 6. Kentucky 16-3 892 7. Texas-EI Paso 20-1 879 
8. Illinois 
t7-2 867 9. Memphis State t6-3 697 
10. 
Oklahoma 


18-3 607 
11. 
Purdue 

15-4 444 t2. Tulsa 
t8-2 437 t 3. Maryland t4-4 
431 
14. 
Wake Forest 


15-4 402 
15. 
Loulsvlllle 

15-5 398 
16. 
Auburn 

14-5 298 t 7. Washington t5-4 23t 18. Georgia Tech 15-5 169 
19. Syracuse 
t4·5 123 20. Lou1siana St. 
13-5 118 
The Observer Notre Dame Jffice, located on the third floor of LaF?nune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 am. unttl 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classificds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next­
lay class~ficds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person

Classifieds r by mad. Charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
FOR SALE 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U S GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL (312) 742-1142 EXT.7316. 
Want to know what's really go1ng on 1n the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER. the only newspaper ol the U S Church For sub· scnpllon mformat1on and a tree sample copy. call Paul at 277-4851 
SA C90 tapes. $251or case ol 10 call Dan Meakin at 277-3306 
SPRINGSTEEN ON VIDEO BOTH THE RIVER AND BORN TO RUN TOURS CALL 233· 1476 
FOR SALE PIONEER TURNTABLE AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST OF· FER CALL 8046 
TICKETS 
NEED FIVE TIX FOR DEPAUL!!! PLEASE CALL SHEILA 3464 
NEED DE PAUL TIX'S WILL EX­CHANGE MARQUETTE TIX'S OR CASH. CALL JOEL AT NO t570 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA BASKETBALL TIX. call Greg at 277-5062 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX CHRIS 6229 
NEED 6 MARQUETTE TIX 6982 
NEED DePaul baaketbatl tickets. As many aa you've got. This Isn't Chase Manhllltan Bank, hare, 10 don't esk lor the farm, but -will offer something raaoonabla. Call 87115 lor details. 
Need many Marquette t1x $$call Sue 284­5t73 
I'll pay you TOP $$ NOW lor agreement on up to 5 commencement t1x. Earn $$ and help preserve my place in tam1ly w•ll. Call Dan In eves at 287-6273 
Need 4 DePaul fix( stu. or GA) Pete 1224 
Needed DePaul GA's call2785 
Needed up to 4 Depaul t1x. Call Janet at 284-4261 
MY BROTHER GOES TO DEPAUL AND MY PARENTS WANT TO SEE NO KICK THEtA ASS IF YOU HAVE TWO GA TICKETS PLEASE CALL DAN AT 3670 

NEED 2 DEPAUL GAs. Call Kathy at 2966 
Earn A LOT ol $$ I need 2 or 3 DEPAUL GAs. Call Chris 3417 
4 SALE 1 t TICKETS TO SEE THE POLICE SUN. FEB 19 AT THE ROSEMONT HORIZON IN CHICAGO THEY WILL BE SOLD TO THE HIGHEST BIDDERS CALL 1193 
Anyone have some extra DePaul t1x? I need at least 4 lor dad and h1s budd1es Call Rob at 3251 . 
sss 
I need 3 DePaul tickets! Call Laura x8130 
sss 

HELP!!! IN DIRE NEED OF DE PAUL TIX. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT NO 3540 
I'm DYING ol a terminal cold and have yet to see DEPAUL-NO LIVE. Need tickets to complete my lite En -8938 
GO AHEAD MAKC MY D.•.Y s,.;, •1;a your 2 DEPAUL GA, and take my pa,ents money 10M 3t80 
NEED DEPAUL STUD TIX CALL LOU 
876018776 
Wanted 4 Marquette G A ·s-Call Tom at 3039 
IN DIRE NEED OF 3 STUDENT OR GA TIXFORDEPAULGAME. WILLPAYBIG BUCKS CALL SCOTT 3271 
I NEED DePAUL TIXCALL 8046. 
NEED 4 DEPAUL GAS. FAMILY HAS NEVER SEEN AN NO BASKETBALL GAME WILLING TO PAY BIG$$$ TOM 6970 
Need DePaul GA'S call John ater 7pm collect (312)998-8384 
Need 2 DePaul GAs, Greg 1077 
PERSONALS 

OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT Ttl 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
John Libert TONIGHT Gym2 
7PM 
If's hog night . 

LOVE IS... FLOWERS ON VALENTINE'S DAY! REGINA'S VALENTINE CARNATION SALE BUY FOR A LOVER OR THAT SPECIAL FRIEND! ORDER FEB 5-9 4:30·6PM AT SMC DINING I-IALL CARNATIONS. 75 EA DELIVERED FEB t4 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL WRITING CONTEST Open to all Grad & Undergrad students Poetry & Prose ac­cepted w1th no length requirements Sub­mit one copy w1th name and address to 309 O'Shag by FEB tO Winners will be notilied by FEB 17 For more 1nlo call Patrick McManus 283-t 754 
H'a a Funky Reggae Party, and H's Saturday Night Chataqua, 9·1, $1. 
Anention SMC Junrors. Vote PASCENTE 
DUNN 
BRINGARDNER 
PINOTTI For Senior Class Officers on Feb. 9 at HCC. 
IMPORTANT. CONTROVERSIAL CANADIAN FILM. ACID RAIN RE­QUIEM OR RECOVERY. WILL BE SHOWNATCSC AT7:30. FREE ADMIS­SION!! COME AND FIND OUT WHY CANADA IS ANGRY WITH THE U.S. -­TONIGHT!! 
SENIOR SKITRIPPERS. MANDATORY MEETING FOR ALL THOSE GOING ON THE SENIOR CLASS SKI TRIP. MEETING IS ON TUESDAY AT 7:151N THE LITTLE THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE. 
RASTA MAN VIBRATIONS­POSITIVE VIBRATIONS 
Amy, 19days until Leonard 
VOTE EXPERIENCE! JEANNE HELLER ANGIE HUNDMAN BETSY BURKE JILL GILLIG lor Soph. Oll1cer Feb. 9 HCC 
A RESPONSIBLE TEAM VOTE FEBRUARY~ FRANKS KOLLMAN STRAZZABOSCO STUDENT BODY OFFICERS 
SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL MEETING TUESDAY AT 6:30 IN THE LITTLE THEATRE OF LAFORTUNE. BE THERE! ALL SENIORS ARE WELCOME. 
DANCE BAND SEEKS GAINFUL EMPLOYMENT DAVE 3207 OR ROGER 3103 NEATOI 
L1sten here guys. you know it's true, it's SUE SERRATO's b•rthday. and she's ready lor you. This goddess will know JUSt what to do when you make your moves. both old and new, With Valentlne·s near. you won't need a clue, to give hugs and kisses and not tust a lew. So pucker up Sue. they're on their way. to make Feb. 7th an unlor-gelable day. Happy 19th Sue! 
MARY & THE FOUR DOMES -ON 
THEIR SEMI-TOUR OF OHIO I 
WILL THE PERSON WHO LIFTED MY NAVY P-COAT SAT NITE AT ALUMNI PLEASE RETURN IT. NEED IT DESPERATELY. JIM 36 SORIN NO. 8457 
ASK PAT SWEENEY WHY HES SMILING! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY LIZ ELLERY-­ENJOY YOUR 22nd! 
I NEED DePAUL TIX. CALL 8046 
GO !FISH!! Make St. Mary's sw1mmers eat bubbles! 
Let's show St. Mary·s what REAL swim­ming's like! 
E.M. i enjoyed the rev1ew, and 1 was serious atDut going oiJ again ...give me a shot lrrday. 
Motivation is when your dreams put on 
work clothes. COLEMAN. BLANZ, HON­
NINGFORD. CURRAN. 
GRANT-we wholeheartty a.,ologize tor being offended by your arrogant. rude. obnoxious and childish personality. We also feel very SOJry that you·., having so much trouble making friends We're such lll!lfWII!'alange when peoplete~J!"""' 
preciate how well combed your ha1r is, how frugal you are wrth your quarters. and your potential to someday growup and reach maturity. Love & kisses--Marc1e. Becky, & Molly. PS Remember-the Com­mons is for the Uncommon. NOT the un­deraged 
OBSERVER VALENTINES! VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES I OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES I 
Merlnltea do It with more mellowness! Marlnltea do It with more mellowneaat Marlniles do It with mora mellowness! 
Robin, Bob, Nick, ZH, Ted, JT, Lynn, AB.B 
"Systems sucksI" 
T. Pieronek 5 Feb 1984 
Oh, to be at K~rkwood. now that spring is here. 
.. .or Heavenly. or Aspen. or Park City ... or Steamboat. 
or anywhere with sun, snow, and some vertical. 
Hey 
What's this THREE MINUTES TO MID­NIGHT stuff? If's the present time ot the Nuclear Doomsday Clock on the cover ol The Bullet1n ol Atomic Scientists 
Rasta Man Uve Up/ 
Andy Ferguson is a man-god! 
Need zz Top tickets call John--8830 
Happy Birthday Eileen! with love, The Jerk 
535_QUOTE OF THE MONTH: get outta me 
Martin Riegle The answer to all your problems is a lew p1lls away. Help me before the cancer ravages your body. Your roommate. 
YT YT YT YT YT YT YT YT YTYT A guy we call Casper is 21 years old. No longer afraid, in lac! has quite bold. Where once 
~. r!Niaytrom enjoyment. Now he just deals in female lullillmant. LICks and smootches. Some lrrends ol Freddie 
WANTED RIDE OR RIDERS TO RICH­MOND/DC AREA FOR THIS WEEKEND. LEAVE 2/9,RETURN 2/12. CALL JEFF 8854 
SMC CLASS OF 86 ELECT THE 4 FOR ALL SEASONS JULIE HARMON-PRESIDENT JANET BIEGEL-VICE PRESIDENT SUZY WELSH-SECRETARY BETH STEBER-TREASURER VOTE FEB 9th 7AM-6PM HCC 
TAKE THE GOLD MEDAL! 
VOTE: 
MANIONSBP 
HARTVPAA 
KARNATZ VPSA 
FEB 9 7-61N HAGGAR 
THE TRADITION CONTINUES ... 
WANTED A number ot handsome and generous NO men to provide my roommate EILEEN SCHERER w1th al­coholic beverages 1n mass quantities If In­terested. meet the BIRTHDAY GIRL at Nick•es around 10 30 tomght and buy her a dnnk. Just listen lor the JERSEY accent 
ATIENTION SMC JUNIORS FOR THE BEST YEAR EVER VOTE ... PASCENTE-PJ'IES. DUNN-V.P. BRINGARDNER-SEC PINOTTI-TREAS FOR SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS. VOTE ON FEB9 AT HCC 
Happy delated B1rthday 
MARY BETH 
.. and next year you won't even have to 
hide in the closetlll 
HEY KOSTECKY! Ifs not over yet... 
Drew. Grow back the mustache. PLEASE I 
Hi, Murph, How was London? 
To the Lady in Red-Love your cros­swords!ll 
if: 
HAPPV 
Best w•shes on your 20th b1rtday from Bill. Kevin, Jay. Greg. Chuck, M1ke. Mary El­len, and especially from your g1rttnend who is dymg to wish you a personal Hap­py Birthdaylll 
Drrnk ..... Dnnk ....Dnnk, Drink, Dnnkl!l 

·rhe Uhs~.-..~ Tuesday. February:, 1984 pagc9 
New ACC record 
Irish capture track championship 
APPboto 

The athletes in Sarajevo are gearing up. The luge .event, demonstrated here by Ray Bateman ofthe U.S., begins on Thursday. Tonight, the first hockey game is scheduled between the U.S. and Canada. See the story' on this page for more details. 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Wn"ter 
The Notre Dame track team proved for the second straight year that they arc the class ofthe Midwes­tern City Conference. This state· ment is based on their performance in the Conference Championships held last Saturday at the Notre Dame ACC. 
The Irish won the meet convinc­ingly by scoring 227 points and win· ning twelve of the sixteen events. The Irish total was 114 points greater than a distant second Oral Roberts. 
CoachJoe Piane was pleased with the outcome to say the least. 
"They (the team) competed very well today," he said. "Each and everyone of them gave a hundred percent" Pianc also noted that he was surprised with the margin ofhis team's victory. 
The meet was highlighted with 12 Irish victories out of 16 events. The two-mile relay team of Bill Courtney, Ed Ricly, Tom Warth, and Craig Maxfield were winners by five seconds over the team from Loyola with a time of8:05.3. 
The Irish also captured the one· mile relay event. The team of Jeff VanWie, MiltJackson,John McNelis, and Dan Shannon won with a strong finish over Oral Roberts and a time of3:25.4. 
In the sprints, Alvin Miller won the 60-yard high hurdles with a time 

Howto makepeacewithTolstoy. 
.··'. 
.' 
. .
~ ~· 

If the academic wars are getting.you down, declare a cease-fire. Take a break with a rich &lild chocolatey ctip of Suisse Mocha. It's just onepf six deliciously 
differentfl«;)y~from •..·.•.•=·····-·.-·.............
" :. .... .... '·· .. :"' ··· .,.
GeneralFooas~ ~~ · · ~~~~!!. ~· ~_r..2!:' -~ IntemationalA~offees. · · · · ; 
GENERAL FOODS® INTERNATIONAL COFFEES. AS MUCH A FEELING AS A FLAVOR 

of 7.58. Mike Brennan finished third for the Irish timing a 7.91. Phil Gilmore, Miller, and Allen Pinkett fmished two, three, four respective· ly in the 60-yard dash. 
In the 300-yard dash, Mitch Van Eyken had a time of 31.68 and just beat out teammate Miller ( 32.33) to win the event. 
The middle distance events were highlighted by Irish victorcs in each contest. Van Eykcn looked strong in the 440-yard run with a time of 
49.07. Shannon captured the 600· yard run by timing a 1:12.81. The Irish took both frrst and second place in the 880-yard run. Van Wie won the event with a time of 1:56.32 and McNelis was a close second timing a 1:57.08. 
The distance events were more strong events for Notre Dame. Jim Moyar came in first with a time of 
2:1 5.1 7, and Jim Tyler placed second with a 2:17.55 in the 1000­yard run. Three Notre Dame athletes placed in the top six in the mile-run. Jari Nurmisto from Oral Roberts won the event ( 4:12.54) while Andy Dillon finished a close second timing a 4:13.79. 
The three-mile run saw Ralph Caron set a new school and ACC record by winning the contest with a time of 13:51.46. This record­breaking run should not over­shadow the fine efforts of Ed Juba and Mark Wozniak who finished second and fifth respectively in the race. 
Notre Dame and James Patterson won two of the three jumping events. In the long jump, Patterson leaped to a distance of 23-10 win­ning the event over fellow team member Joel Autry (22-2). Th• triple jump saw Patterson win rather convincingly again with a distance of 47-4 1/4. Gary LeKander (45-5) and Autry ( 43-10) both put in solid efforts. 

Five players are ruled ineligible in Olympics 
By BARRYWILNER 
APSports Writer 
The sizzling dispute over hockey player eligibility for the XIV winter Olympics climaxed yesterday with the disqualification of five hockey players and bitter reaction by Canadian hockey officials. 
Mark Morrison and Don Dietrich of Canada, Jim Corsi and Rick Brag­nalo of Italy and Greg Holst of Austria all were declared ineligible for the Games, which begin today. Curt Berglund, treasurer ofthe IIHF, said that the five players were professionals because they had signed contracts with National Hockey League teams and played in the NHL. 
Morrison played nine games with the New York Rangers two seasons ago, while Dietrich was with the Chicago Black Hawks earlier"this season. Corsi spent an NHL season with the Edmonton Oilers, Bragnalo played parts oftwo seasons with the Washington Capitals. and Holst is a former New York Ranger. 
The International Olympic Com­
mittee said yesterday that anyone 
who had an NHL contract was a 
professional. The IIHF said that 
anyone who had an NHL contract 
and had played in the NHL was in· 
eligible for the Olympics. 
ButJohn Halligan, an NHL spokes­man and former business manager for the Rangers, said that, to the best of his knowledge, Morrison had never signed an NHL contra,ct. Hal· ligan said Morrison played his nine games under a tryout arrangement and had retained his amateur status. 
Morrison refused to comment on his exclusion from the Olympics. 
The entire dispute was spurred by American threats to challenge the Canadian roster. But it was Finland that wound up firing the first salvo. 
A telegram sent by Finland to the IOC two weeks ago inquiring about the eligibility of 11 players was ac­cepted as a formal protest by Olym­pic officials. 
Willi Daumc, chairman ofthe IOC eligibility Committee. met ycster· day morning with representatives from Finland, Canada, the United States and West Germany. Later in the day. IIHF president Gunther Zabetski met with representatives from those countries, plus Austria, Italy and Norway, to discuss the eligibility of players on the Finnish list and others who had professional experience. 
Canada's goalie. Mario Gosselin, is eligible for the Games because he had not appeared in an NHL contest even though he had signed a con­tract with the Quebec Nordiques. 
Morrison refused to comment and the other -disqualified players could not be reached for comment. 
The eligibility of several other players was discussed yesterday. Bjoern Skaare of Norv;ay had played one game with the Detroit Red Wings but did not have an NHL con­tract, so he was declared eligible. The same applied for Udo Kiessling of West Germany, who played a game for the Minnesota North Stars. 
Canada, Italy and Austria have un­
til Friday to replace the ineligible 
players. 
pounds, went to Mt. Carmel High in Chicago.

Recruits 
Although Faust admits that this

continued from page 12 
year may not be as fruitful as his pre­mold -having good mobility and a 
vious three, many recruiting experts precise arm-is 6-4, 210-pounds. 
believe the Irish will again get their Matt Dingcns, a 6-6, 230-pound 
share. linebacker who helped Birmingham Brother Rice to the Class A state 
"We could still have good results championship in Michigan, has also 
from this year, but there arc some verbally committed. Dingens, 
spots like tight end where we have brother of current Irish defensive 
been completely wiped out." lineman Greg Dingens, possesses 4.8 speed in the 40.· The loss of defensive line coach By;tndy Wells is..a prospect that Greg Blache also may have had an ' colikl get a lot -of playing time at . · .effect, since Blache had been in­<te.(t!hsivc back. '\vells, who has Jet·--strumcntal in getting many of the quick speed, is a 6-0, 188-pounder top players to sign. from Montclair, N.J. 
•''>11 "" ,: 

The Irish also expect to sign two ·However, the real news ofsuccess bighly touted lineman, Tony Roos or failure ofthe Irish recruiting push and Mark Antonietti. Roos, at 6-6, will not be known until tomorrow 245-pounds, played in Morris, Ill., when the players sign their names while Antonictti, who is 6-3, 235· on the dotted line. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 7, 1984 -page 10 

APPboto 

Kentucky looks pretty threatening here in action last week against Tennessee. But, the Widcats have dropped severalplaces in the AP poll this week. For the positions ofthe other teams, see the story on page 8. 
Irish lose a close game to Michigan State 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Etlitor 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team seemed to be on .1 hot streak when it travelled to East Lan­sing to take on Michigan State. l'riday. Well. maybe a two-game win­ning str t eak ~annot be considered "hot," but then the team has not won more than two in a row all season. 
As of today, though, the Irish still havt· not won three in a row, as they fell to the excellent shooting of the Spartans, 73-72. 
It is not hard to understand why Michigan State won. The Spartans· sixty-percent shooting from the floor and nine-for-nine mark at the foul line was the difference. The Irish did quite well themselves, shooting a good 47 percent from the floor and sinking 24 of their 27 foul shots -but the solid effort was in vain as the Spanans erased an early Notre Dame lead and held off the Irish just long enough to raise their record to l l-7. Notre Dame droppe<.l to H-1 I. 
"Michigan State played probably its best game of the year against us," said Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "They had a lot of offensive weapons. In the first half alone, they shot 6'5 percent from the floor, had eight points on offensive rebounds, and scored six more on turnovers caused by their full-coun press." 
The game was tight for nearly the entire 40 minutes. The two teams traded baskets for most of the first half, until Irish juniors Laura Doug­herty, Ruth Kaiser, and Mary Beth Schueth lcJ a brief surge that put Notre Dame ahead by seven, 31·24, with six minutes left in the hal( 
That was the largest lead of the game for either team, but, less than two minutes later, the lead was only one. Once again the teams traded 
Game 
condnuedfrom page 12 
lead the Gltamount offense in the game, canning 18 points. Howard Hudson, probably the most prominent Vermont player, con­tributed 14 points of his own in the losing cause. 
Also adding 14 for Vermont was their captain, the sophomore Simko. Simko, who looked like he was ready to play for the rock band Devo in his 
baskets and the half ended with the 
Irish holding a slim 39-36lead. 
The see-saw battle continued in the second half, and, with less than 12 minutes left in the game, Notre Dame h:d by one point. However, Kris Emerson's 10-foot jumpl·r put the Spartans ahead to stay, '53-'52. For the final I0 minutes, the lead never increased to more than four, but the Irish never could regain the lead. 
"I never fdt we had control ofthe game," said DiStanislao. "I'm sure it was a good game to watch, but I feel we didn"t handle their match-up zone defense as well as I would have liked to. Still, at the end of the bal­lgame, we had an opportunity to win. It was a longshot, but the op­portunity was there." 
That final opponunity came when the Irish got the ball near their own basket with five seconds left and a one-point deficit. However, they did not even attempt a shot as the in­tended recipient of the outlet pass failed to get in position. 
"I don't think that this means we're back into any doldrum," said DiStanislao, referring to the four­game slump that hit her team two weeks ago. "It'll be good to be in­volved in a close game that we win, though." 
The loss marked the sixth time this season that Notre Dame has lost a close game. It is this failure to win in the clutch that has been the dif­ference between last year's 20-7 season and this year's current 8-1 1 record. 
The team will have a chance to get another winning streak going this week as it takes on two tough op­ponents at home. IUinois State visits tomorrow night at 7:30, while Vil­lanova is scheduled to play the Irish after the Notre Dame-DePaul men's game. 
bright green plastic glasses and odd looking knee pads, was the only Catamount rebounder of any sig· ni.ficance in the game, pulling down seven boards. 

Although last night may have been the 250th win for Phelps at Notre Dame, it cenainly was not one ofthe more sterling performances by a Phelps-coached Irish squad. Notre Dame, which must face second ranked and unbeaten DePaul on Saturday, will have to come up with a better performance to beat the Blue Demons. 
Swimmers split weekend 
Spirits are high despite a loss 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
They may not have won the meet, but everyone on the Notre Dame men's swim team was optimistic on the bus ride home from Bowling Green. Ohio. In Saturday's double dual meet, the team defeated Kalamazoo College, 77-38, and lost a heartbreaking contest to Bowling Green, 66-47. 
Despite the 19 point difference, the match against the Falcons was closer than the final score indicates. Several races ended with only a few hundredths of a second separating frrst and second place. "Ifwe'd been able to sweep the breast stroke race, the meet would have gone to the last event," said Notre Dame head coach Dennis Stark. 
Although the loss to Bowling Green lowered Notre Dame's record to a 6-2 mark, the Irish are not discouraged by"'the results ofthe meet. 
"We were underdogs going into the meet, but we swam well," said senior co-captain Dan Flynn. "We really went after this meet and got our best middle season times." 
Stark was also pleased with the overall results of Saturday's meet. "For a losing effort, we had a Jot of good swims," he said. "You like to come out on top in the score, but the team should be proud of what it did.'" 
Senior AI Harding, junior Tim Bohdan and sophomore Blaise Har­ding played important roles in the meet and each improved their times in several events. Stark hopes to see the times steadily improve and the fastest times to emerge at the Mid­west Invitational Meet in early March. 
Stark was not surprised to see the_ Irish defeat Kalamazoo by a wide margin. Kalamazoo lacks depth this season, and the Irish recognized that Kalamazoo was not as strong as Bowling Green. 
In Saturday' meet, the Irish lost both diving events, indicating the team still misses the services ofdiver Mike Kennedy who left the Univer­sity this semester for personal reasons. According to teammates, junior diver Rich Yohon is adjusting to his new role as primary diver for the Irish and has shown con­siderable improvement. 
"Rich is improving everytime, but we miss Mike," explained Flynn. "Rich is trying tougher dives, he is giving his best, and-we're happy with him." 
Baty 
continuedfrompage 12 
sonality. Although he has had an ex­
cellent season, he puts teammates 
Mike Golic( heavyweight) and Mark 
Fischer ( 126-pound) before him in 
reaching the NCAA's. 
"I might have a shot (at the 

NCAA's)," says Baty. "There's some 
good 177 pounders, but if I wrestle 
well I might have a shot." 
Last year Baty wound up with an excellent 32-9-1 mark and advanced to the NCAA Regionals where he was unable to win a match. With a repeat performance this season, he hopes to be able to get out of the NCAA Regionals reach the NCAA Finals in New Jersey. To make it to the Finals, Baty must place in the top three in the 177-pound class at Reginals. 
"I'd like to get out of Regionals," says Baty. "Last year I didn't even 
On Thursday, the Irish will travel to Wayne State University, and the team is confident of victory and op­timistic about the rest of the season. "We're strong, flexible and looking forward to the rest of the season," said Casey. 
This Saturday, the Irish will host a tough squad from Saint Bonaventure. Although Notre Dame has claimed the last four meets against Saint Bonaventure, Satur­day's meet promises to bt· exciting. 
IRISH ITEMS ...The Notre Dame women's swim team will host Saint Mary's-College for its last home meet of the season tonight in the Rockne Memorial Pool .. .The Irish lost both meets of this weekend's series. 
win a match. I'll have trouble. It'll be 
tough, but you have to shoot for it." 
Although the Irish obliterated some opponents earl~ this year, Baty is much happi%= with the tougher matches. \ ~~­
"It is ridiculous (to." shut out teams)," says Baty. "It doesn't hC'Ip at all. I like when we w~stle scbools comparble to us and be'tter than Its. 
"We lost pretty handily to Indiana State and Arizona State.But it is good experience to wrestle them." 
As the season has progressed, the schedule has gotten tougher for the Irish with schools like Illinois State, Purdue, and Marquette still on the schedule. 
Today, the Irish will put their 13-3 record on the line against Miami of Ohio. Although they may not seem to be a strong opponent, Baty thinks otherwise. 
"They are very good," says Baty. 
Words of praise for others and humility about his own accomplish­ments are common to Phil Baty. 

Lutheran Center for Substance Abuse of Park Ridge, Illinois and University of Notre Dame 
ANNOUNCE A 

YOUNG ADULTS ALCOHOLISM/SUBSTANCE ABUSE SEMINAR 
February 10, 1984 9:00am -4:00pm 
University of Notre Dame Moreau Seminary Auditorium Notre Dame, Indiana 
9:00-9:30 9:30-10:30 
10:30-10:.45 
10:45-11 :00 11:00-12:00 
12.:00-1:15 1:15-2:15 
2:15-2:30 2:30-3:30 
3:30-4:00 
PROGRAM SCHEDULE 

Registration and coffee 
Alcoholism/Substance Abuse and the Young Adult: A Highly Treatable Illness 
Questions and Answers 
Break 
Attitudes and the Recovery Process 
Lunch 
Intervention: Methods, Plans and Strategies to Engage the Young Adult in the Treatment Pmcess 
Break 
Panel Discussion by Recovering 
Young Adults 
Questions, Answers and Wrap-Up VannA. Smith, Ph.D., Clinical Neuropsychologist Specializing in Adolescent Alcoholism/Substance Abuse, Staff Psychologist at Parkside Lodge of Mundelein, Inc.'s Youth Program, Mundelein, Illinois 
Sally Coleman, M.A., Community 
Representative for Lutheran Center for Substance Abuse, Park Ridge, Ill. 
Jack Clark, M.H.~ .• C.A.C. (Sr.), Director of Outpatient Department, 
Lutheran Center for Substance Abuse, Park Ridge, Illinois 

-----~--~-----,-~-------~-~-~-~-­
For Information, call 239-7338 or For R.-wtions, Mail Attached Registration To: Luis Valdes Coordinator Outreach Service!> 
University of Notre Dame 
C.P.S.C. Department, Infirmary Building Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-7336 1 YOUNG ADULTS 
I ALCOHOLISM/SUBSTANCE ABUSE SEMINAR I Name ____________________________________________ 1 
I Address ---------------------------------------­I"\.f .... 
I  City  State  Zip--­ 
1  
1  Phone  Number Attending  -----­ 
1  
J  


~~~C3L~-------------------------------------T_u_e_s.da_y_,_Fe•b•r-uary---7•,•19•8•4---p-a.ge---11 
Bloom County 
50t<l '!... 50N?... 
I 


Berke Breathed 

Dave & Dave 
I TllltJK I'LL TAIIf THf 
POC.KET WATCH FOP. I 1S, THE KtiiFf SET FOR I 'IO, AND THE JEST IPI A GIFT (f~FJCitT£. 

Gary Larson 

53 Spire 
ornaments 55 Tie 56 Gibbor 
Warhol 
58 Gr. island 59 Netherlands commune 
Campus 
•3:30 
p.m.-LadiesofNDCardParty, University Club 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc· tion to IBM PC, 115 CCMB 


U.S. Nuclear Policy in Europe," Fr. Gerard Defois, 105 Law School 
•4:30 
p.m. Biology Seminar, "lmmunoregulation in Chagas' Disease," Dr. Charles W. Todd, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•5:15 
p.m. -Stretcherdse for older adults, ACCGym 4 

•6 
p.m. Meeting, Mock Democratic Convention-Platform Committee, LaFortune Little Theatre , 

•6:
15 p.m. -Meeting, of the Support Group for Graduate Student Women, Wilson Commons 

•6:45 
p.m. -Meeting, for all St. Mary's students interested in St. Mary's Scholastic Writer's Associa· tion, Holy Cross Lobby 

•7 
p.m. -Ground Zero Meeting, Center for So· cial Concerns 

•7 
p.m.-Swimming, NO Women vs. St. Mary's College, Rockne Pool 

•7 
p.m. Film, "The Fight for Life," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture and Discussion, An Intro· duction to Natural Family Planning, Mr. and Mrs. Tim Fulnecky, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Acid Rain: Requiem or Recovery," Center for Social Concerns, Free 

•7:30 
p.m -Informational Meeting, Program in China Summer '84, Zhang Bin Jiang, 410 Admin. Building 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Marketing Financial Services," Aldo Papone, CCE Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Social Studies," Ms Fran Lebowitz, Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, 


TV Tonight 
8p.m. 16 A Team 22 The Mississippi 28 I984 Winter Olympics 34 NOVA 
9 p.m. 16 Riptide 22 Tuesday Night Movie 34 American Playhouse 
10 p.m. 16 Remington Steele 

Mellish 


"It's from Time magazine and it says 'IM· PORTANn OPEN IMMEDIATELY!' You'd better come home from work." 

Richard Guindon The Far Side 
YES. Mr IDIH~TE WIN A DINETTE SET DUIII"G /IIINMrj ucriiRE. 
\ 


I ~t kNIW••• THERE~ SDIICTHIII~ 
STMII'E AIIIIT THIS 
~Ill THIN~, 
\ 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 34 Brave one 57 Vacant 10 Reach 1 Borderon 36 Negative 60 Hebrew 11 Mythomaniac 5 Kind of particle letter 12-Boleyn 
necktie 37 French 61 Otherwise 10 Having beverage 62-Janeiro 13 Humorous wings 38 Those 63 Carefor Foxx
skilled in 64 Fabric
14 -Star 
19 Passover State certain worker feast 15 Pat or tools: abbr. 65 Ancient 21 -Knievel Daniel 39 Conceit chariot 24 Automobile 16 Prong 40 Carbohy· 66 Whirlpool 26 Be partialdrate: suff. 

17 Roams 
41 Belgian to aimlessly DOWN 27 Comeupmarble18 Comprehend 1 Pond plant 28 City in 42 Virile20 Mountain 2 Wild pig Bangladeshmalescrests 3 Stressed 30 Out of 22 Daubed 44 Blush 4 Having left work 23 Enthusias· 46 Tries a will 31 Thesaurus 
ticcommen· 48 Baba or 5 Onewho author dations 
MacGraw mistreats 32 Certain 25 Amin 
49 Forest 6 Pamily collars 26 Hesitated path member 35 Butler of 29 Permanent 50 Curtain rOd 7 Food fish GWTW 
possession adjunct 8 Singles 38 Fingernail 33 "Tempest" 54 Sp. weight 9 Destructive treatment spirit unit insects 41 Souvenir 
42 Listen to 43 Arab state 45 Santa's 
reindeer 47 Swapped 50 Hinted 51 Sole 52 Pete or 
Billy 
Monday's Solution 
JEJB IBIS 
IPIA JilL 
Jill IKIA lAlBlE 
I C I L IE IV ILIA IN IN Ill 
IE IT. I L lAID ID 
ar 

\AlBIE lA 
~ 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


What does the Student Union Record Store 
Pink Floyd's

have for -me? 
THE WALL

• Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price 
. i -~;~" '{~~; .··at~Chautouqua
1.>;·1 Hl~ to:!
'"; '":; wec:t)Pets:· '8~ ··. ·.::,;·~." ._., ··,;~ 
• ·-stank tapes: ·o• Triurs:iFeb~·~ity~· ;.·~·~:~::··i.:: '·" 
'H-11' ' I, ~0 . ' ',·_. ,. 'tJP,:'
-·IDK SA W'-s -2 pkr-SQ~s yt&m1,tnSJ,~sq9 7}9, 11 ..:')J ,,,,, TDKSA60's 2 pk~-$4.50 1--$2.50 Maxell UDXL ll's 2 pk--$7.00 1--$3.75 Adm: S1 
• Postage Stamps 
Tuesday, February 7, 1984 -page 12 
The O._,rver/Paul C.,..,OJ 

jim Dolan stretches for two more in last night's game against Vermont. Dolan bad 16 points while leading the team in two areas -rebounds with eight andasssists with six. AssistantSports EditorjeffBlumb bas more on the game at right. 
Baty leads wrestlers by his good example 
ByJOE BRUNEm "The mental aspects of preparing .\ports Writer for the match are harder than doing well (in the match). It's easy to let 
There is an old adage that advises up at certain points. In wrestling people, "l.ead by example." That is when you let up you fall behind. So how junior Phil Baty looks at his role you have to keep going and that's a as captain of the Irish wrestling challenge. 
team. Besides being a dedicated perfor­"I just try to work hard," says Baty. mer on the wrestling mat, Baty is "And that spreads (throughout the also an excellent performer in the team). The guys pretty much classroom His serious approach to motivate themselves." academics has made earned him a Tht· soft-spoken pre-professional 3.65 GPA last semester. 
major docs not consider himself to "Probably after four years it be t·spccially outgoing. (wrestling) will be over," says Baty. "I'm not a gung-ho, kill'cm-typc "So, I want to be prepared for that. 
person," says Baty. "It was a real "But I really can't see myself not surprise for me to be elected cap­wrestling at all because it's been tain." such a big part ofmy life." To go cold 
Like many other athletes, Baty was turkey would be hard." influenced by a family member to Baty had many scholarship offers compete in his spon. The Cedar coming out of Cedar Springs High Springs, Mich. rcsidt·nt began his School, but the academics at Notre wrestling career in the seventh Dame arc what drew Baty's atten­grade. tion more than anything else. 
"My older brother wrestled," says "I like how the academics and the Baty. "And from watching him I got athletics go together," says Baty. interested in it." "Whereas at the other schools offer­ing me scholarships I would have 
Since starting wrestling, Baty has 
concentrated mostly on wrestling. wreMlt-d at least nine months a year 
"The atmosphere here is con­during each year. Ben>ming burned 
ducive to studying." And I wanted to out on a sport is common for most 
get into a med school. I knew Notre athktes, and Baty is no exception. 
Dame had a good pre-med To curb the tendency, he tries to 
program." avoid this by taking a break during 
Academic and athletic success tht· summer. 
seem to go hand-in-hand for Baty. As "I've gotten burned out a couple 
a freshman and sophomore, he times," he says. "It just becomes old­
received the M)nogram Club's Out­hat, and you just go through tht· mo­
standing Wrcstler A ward. La.~t yeartions. That's not good. So I usually 
he also was presented with the F. ta'kt· a break during the summer. An... 
Patrick O'Connor Memorial Award just go do something else for 
for out~tanding leadership. Even af­awhile." 
ter all this success Baty downplaysAlthough he has been burm·d out his accomplishments. 
on the sport bdort·. '•c ddinitt:ly 
"When I was a freshman I was loves wrestling. 
surprised to make the varsity. I did "Wrestling gt·ts in your blood." 
pretty well. and I got some awards," says Baty "I think (Coach) Tihamcr 
he says. "Last year. I had a better idea is a good example. He's 29 yt·ars old, 
what was going on (with the and he stilllovt·s to wrestle." 
program), and at the end of la.~t yearAfter also playing baseball and 
Iwassurprised I got so many awards. football in high school, a commbina­
"You just wrestle. and ifthey think tion of aspects about wrestling 
you deserve them I guess they give seemed to interest Baty the most.· 
them to you." "There is a balance between the 
Humility pervades Baty's per-mental and physical in wrestling that• I didn't get in other sports," he says. 
see BATY, pag•1i'­
"I really enjoy that. 

Notre Dame looks sluggish against Vermont's slowdown strategy 
ByJEFF BLUMB didn't want to get caught in a run­last night's game in the final minute. AssistantSports Editor ning game like they did at Dayton Rucker, who apparently did some­Saturday when they lost by 28. thing on the team's West Coast trip 
When you think of Vermont, you "Still, we scored 63 points in a in early january to aggravate Phelps. generally think of two things -slow-down game. Believe me, I did not make the trip with the team skiing and maple syrup. One thing didn't want a slow-down game to South Carolina but is set to Havel you definitely don't think about is tonight. I wanted to play some to New Jersey Thursday, where the basketball, and after last night's 63-people." Irish will square offwith Rutgers. 49 Notre Dame win over the Frankly, Phelps didn't have all that Jim Dolan had his usual strong 
Catamounts, there are still only two many people to play last night. Neit­game for Notre Dame, contributing things that come to mind about Ver­her Jojo Buchanan or Tim Kempton 16 points on 8 of I I shooting. In ad­mont -skiing and maple syrup. dressed for the Irish, Buchanan be­dition, Dolan paced the Irish in 
While surely one of the year's cause of the tcndiniti Is which has rebounds with eight, besides dishing more forgctable games, the plagued him throughout the year out six assists from his spot t up top. Catamounts probably gave Notre and Kempton because ofa calfinjury Dolan, it should be noted, was Dame more than they had bargained suffered after the Fordham game. playing the game with pain in tht· for. Vermont was able to stay close Add that to the two academically toes on his left foot. The injury. al­to the Irish for much ofthe game, yet ineligible players on the squad and though not serius enough to hold 
could never quite catch up. It Phelps only had ten players he could Dolan out of action, is very painful seemed as if Notre Dame knew it use last night. One of those ten, for the sophomore. would win the game if only they senior Cecil Rucker, saw his first .Junior forward Matt Thompson went through the motions. game action since the Valparaiso 
see GAME, page 10 

Vermont jumped out to a quick game last Dec. 21 when he entered lead as Howard Hudson drove the length of the floor off a steal for a 
layup. The Irish countered moments 
Intentions of recruits later with a Ken Barlow rebound slam and Vermont had lost the only lead it would know in the game. 
are official tomorrow 

Notre Dame worked itselfout to a I 0 point margin at 20-I 0, largely on By THERON ROBERTS ing effort was Notre Dame's Liberty Tom Sluby's eight points. Sluby, who Sports Writer Bowl appearance. chipped in seven rebounds on the "I know that (being in) the bowl night, would go on to get 2I points Even though December 29th sig­game helped us," Faust says. "All I 
in the game on 50 percent shooting. nified the end of Notre Dame's foot­can say is that I'm glad we were in it, 
The Catamounts were able to ball season for most, it marked the and I'm glad we won." work themselves back into the game beginning of the effort by the Irish at 3I-27 just before the end of the coaching staff to recruit the nation's To date, seven players have ver­fi .rst half, but the Irish pushed their best high schooi players. bally committed to attend Notre lead back to six at the half as Sluby The first day that colleges can sign Dame, well behind la.~t year's num­hit a 20 foot jumper in the final four seniors to national football letters­ber. The verbal committments don't 
seconds. of-intent is tomorrow. mean a thing until the letters-of­
The Irish widened their lead to as Irish head coach Gerry Faust and intent are signed, however, so Faust much as 63-47 in the final minute his assistants have been travelling and his staff are understandably before Vermont'sjohn Simko added around the country, trying hard to cautious about all of the announce­a meaningless basket at the buzzer. get the top athletes to come to Notre ments. 
For Vermont, last night's game Dame. However, the Irish coaches "We won't know for sure about was a chance to build some con­have encountered some stumbling who we will get until Wednesday," fidence. For Notre Dame, it was a blocks in their quest. {tomorrow) says Faust. "Right now chance to get back on the winning we're hinging on a lot ofprospects." track after Saturday's setback at The Notre Dame recruiting effon Among those who have already South Carolina. Both teams reached has been hampered by two major announced their intentions to play those ends with last night's result. factors, according to Faust. Because for the Irish next season include 
"We did a lot of good things and second semester classes got started three quarterbacks -Pat Pesavento our young kids got confidence," said a week later this year, his staff only from Chicago's Joliet Catholic, Tom Vermont coach Bill Whitmore. had three weekends that it could Byrne from Pacifica, Calif., and Terry "N.D. knew they were in a dog fight host the high school players. In addi­Andrysiak from Allen Park, Mich. the entire game." tion, Faust feels that Notre Dame has 
The game was more of a pillow received more, than its share of Pesavento, who is 6-2, 190­fight than a dog fight, though, as Ver­"negative recruiting." pounds, threw for 1,900 yards and mont played a slow-down game Other schools are quick to point 27 touchdowns his senior year. throughout, lulling the relatively out to a prospective freshman that Andrysiak, a 6-1, 175-pounder, ac­small crowd to a din. he has little or no chance of playing counted for I,500 yards through the 
"Vermont played the way they for the Irish because ofthe three fine air and I8 touchdowns. Byrne, who could to try and win the game," Irish classes that Faust has recruited. comes from the Steve Beuerlcin coach Digger Phelps said. "They One thing, though, that Faust 
see RECRUITS, page 9 

played conservatively because they thinks definitely helped the recruit-

Alvin Miller, seen here in earlier action at the ACC, stble 16events and the team championship oftheMid­was one ofthe many successful track team members western City Conference. For more on the meet, see 
this weekend. Notre Dame captured 12 out ofa pos-jenyMelia's story• on page 9. 



